About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/cu31924092921984

--------------------------------------

THE 



ALBERT N'YANZA, 

GEEAT BASIN OF THE NILE 



AND 



EXPLORATIONS OF THE NILE SOURCES. 



BY 

SIR SAMUEL W. BAKER, M.A. F.R.G.S. 

GOLD MEDALLIST OF THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY. 


WITH MAPS, ILLUSTRATIONS, AND PORTRAITS. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL IL 


London: 

MACMILLAN AND CO. 

1867. 



LONDON : 

R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, 

BREAD STREET HILL. 



CONTENTS OF VOL. II. 



CHAPTER I. 

LIFE AT OBBO. 

Physician in General — Influence gained over the People — Katchiba is 
applied to for Eain — "Are you a Rainmaker?" — Katchiba takes 
Counsel's Opinion — Successful Case — Night-watch for Elephants — 
Elephant kUled — Dimensions of the Elephant — Wild Boars — Start 
for the South — Mrs. Baker thrown from her Ox — The Asua River 
¦ — StaDiing Mehed^het Antelope — A Prairie Fire — Tracking an 
Antelope — Turks' Standard-bearer killed — ^Arrival at Shooa — The 
Neighbourhood of Shooa — Fruitfulness of Shooa — Cultivation and 
Granaries — Absconding of Obbo Porters — " Wheels within Wheels " 
— DiflBculty in starting South — ^ Departure from Shooa — Fatiko 
Lev^e — Boundless Prairies — Fire the Prairies — Deceit of the Guide 
— Arrive at the Victoria Nile — Arrive at Rionga's Country — Start 
for Karuma — The Karuma Falls — Welcome by Kamrasi'a People — 
Passage of the River forbidden — To await Reply of Kamrasi — The 
Natives' Dread of Kamrasi — They hold a Conference— Resolve to 
ross the River alone — The Ferry of Atada — Reception by Keedja 
— I luU. the Suspicions of the Natives — Appellations of Speke and 
Grant — Freemasonry of Unyoro- — -Native Curiosity — The Bark 
Cloth of Unyoro — Comparative Civilization of Unyoros — Native 
Pottery — The Bottle Gourds used as Models — " Great Men never in 
a Hurry to pay Visits " — Pronounced to be Speke's Brother — The 
Escort cross the River — Neatness of the Natives in packing — 
Native Manufactures — March parallel with the Victoria Nile — 



CONTENTS. 

Severe Illness of Mrs. Baker — March to the Capital — Kamrasi 
suspects Treachery — Arrive at last at the Capital — Impriaoned on 
the Marsh— Expectation of an Attack— Kamrasi makes a State 
Visil^Conversation with the King— His Eeception of my Presents 
— Another Interview with Kamrasi — Exchange Blood and become 
Friends— Avarice of the King- Permitted to leave our Pever-hed— 
Ihrahim and party return North— Sulkiness of Bacheeta— Attempt 
to barter for Speke's Eifle — Rapacity of the Chiefe . Page 1 — 69 



CHAPTER II. 

THE START FOE THE LAKE. 

Despicable Conduct of the King — Pertinacity of Kamrasi — Kamrasi's 
Infamous Proposal — Resentment of the King's Insolence — The 
King's Apology^ — Expectation of a Fight — Kamrasi's Satanic Escort 
— The Eout at a Gun-shot — A disagreeable Escort — Passage of the 
Kafoor — Mrs. Baker receives a Sun-stroke — Dismissal of the brutal 
Escort — Misery and Distress — Return to Consciousness, but aflBticted 
with Brain-fever Page 70 — 84 



CHAPTER III. 

RBCOVEKED. 

The Sugar-cane indigenous — Unyoro People clean Feeders — Close to 
the Lake — Discovery of the Albert N'yanza — Gratitude to Pro- 
vidence — Denominate it " The Albert N'yanza " — Fishing Tackle — 
The Lake declared to be the Sea — Feast in honour of the Discovery 
— Survey of the Lake — Geography of the Lake — Countries bordering 
the Lake — The Great Basin of the Nile — Sources of the Nile — 
Affluents of the Albert Lake — Our whole party Fever-stricken — 
Yearning for Home — Arrange Canoes for Lake Voyage — Start from 
Vaoovia — Voyage upon the Lake — Shore Encampment — Deserted 
by the Boatmen — No Pilot — Endeavour to civOize the Canoes — 
Adapt a Scotch Plaid for a Sail — Natives volunteer as Boatmen — 
Storm on the Lake — Nearly swamped — Land safely on Shore — 



CONTENTS. vii 

Falls of the Kaiigiri River— Shoot a Crocodile— Taste of Crocodile 
Flesh — Discomforts of Lake Voyage — Elephants in the Lake — Inhos- 
pitable Natives — Procure Supplies — The Lake changes its character 
— Arrival at Magungo — Embouchure of the Somerset River — Fish 
and Fishing — The Baggera and Lepidosiren Aimecteus — Native 
Fishing Arrangements — Exit of the Nile from the Lake — Nile 
navigable from Lake to Madi — The Victoria Nile at Magungo — 
Determination to settle Nile Question — Nobly seconded by Mrs. 
Baker — Leave Magungo — Voyage up the Victoria Nile — Stricken 
again with Fever — Guided by Water-plants — Numerous Crocodiles 
—The Murchison Falls — Hippopotamus charges the Canoe — Narrow- 
Escape from Crocodiles — Arrival of Oxen, but not the Guide — Loss 
of Oxen from Fly-bite — Sickness on the March — The Island of 
Patooan — Information about Ibrahim — Difference in the Level — 
Difference in Observations — Altitudes Page 85 — 145 

CHAPTER IV. 

TREACHBEOUS DESIONS OF THE NATIVES. 

Confined in the Country — Determine to proceed — Deserted by the 
Natives — Discovery of a " TuUaboon " Granary — Misery at Shooa 
Mora — Hard Fare — Preparation for Death — Kamrasi's Tactics — 
The Bait takes — We are carried to the King's Camp — Rejoin the 
Turks' Detachment — Their Welcome — Kamrasi seeks my Alliance — 
Deception of Kamrasi — M'Gambi has impersonated the Bang — The 
real Kamrasi — Prefer seeing Meat to a King — The begging Envoy 
— Carried to the Camp of Kamrasi — Introduction to the real King — 
Description of Kamrasi — The Native Court . . . Page 146 — 167 

CHAPTER V. 

AT HOME IN KISOONA. 

System of Fattening — Native Preparations of Food — Native Manu- 
factures — Knavery of Native Butter-dealers. — Vapour Bath for 
Fever — State Visit from the King — Mendicancy again — ^The King 
in love with a Toofli-comb — Effect of concave Mirror — Attempts at 
Ancient History — Kamrasi's Request — Kamrasi afOronted — Sudden 



viii CONTENTS. 

Invasion of the Country — Alarm and Cowardice of Kamrasi — The 
British Flag protects TJnyoro — Diplomatic Arrangement — Con- 
ference with Debono's Party — Settle authoritatively all Objections 
Eetreat of the Invaders Page 168 — 186 

CHAPTEE VI. 

KAMEASI BEGS FOE THE BEITISH FLAG. 

The pertinacious Beggar — Summary Justice for High Treason — 
Arrival of Ivory for the Turks — Frightful Barbarities upon Captives 
— The Female Captives — Treacherous Murder of Sali — Disputes 
with Kamrasi — Advice to Kamrasi — The Turks begin to bully — 
Eddrees refused Admittance at Court — Commimicate with Ibrahim 
— Drunkenness among the Unyoros — Native Sorcerers — Implicit 
Belief in Sorcerers — Invasion of the M'Was — Consulted by the 
King in the Extremity — Kamrasi wiU not Fight — An invigorating 
little Difficulty — Mock Valour by Unyoros — Kamrasi's Retreat — 
We are Deserted — Prepare for Retreat — Leave Kisoona — Arrive at 
Deang — No Water — Deserted again by the Porters — Eicham miss- 
ing — Eicham reported as kUled — The M'Was' Drums beat — March 
to Foweera — The Night Eetreat — Lose the Eoad — ^At a Loss for 
direct Eoute — Capture a Native — Eecover the Eoute — Exhaustion 
of Mrs. Baker — Arrive at Foweera — WeU prepared — Refuse to 
assist Kamrasi-^^Eicham's Eetum — Eicharn's Story — The King in 
Distress — Arrival of Ibrahim with Eeinforcements — Eeceive Letters 
and Papers from Home — Kamrasi " is himself again " — Invasion of 
the Langgo Country— The Whisky Distillery — Kamrasi tries the 
Whisky — Butcheries by Kamrasi^ — Kamrasi orders the Murder of 
Kallod'— Attempt to save KaUo^ — Pursuit and Capture of Kallo6 — 
I intercede on his behalf — Death of a Headman — Shot by order of 
Kamrasi — The Warning — The Body-guard . . . Page 187 — 241 

CHAPTEE VII. 

KAMEASI'S ADIEU. 

Begging to the last — We quit Kamrasi's Territory — March to Shooa 

— ^Arrive at Shooa — The Lira Tribe — Resemblance of Natives' and 



CONTENTS. ix 

Lawyers' Wigs — Result of the Turks' Razzias — Loss of Cattle by the 
Turks— The Fight with Werdella— Courage of Werdellar-Werdella 
defeats the Turks — Murder of a Native — Runaway slaves recaptured 
• — Brutality of the Turks — Little Abbai — The Children of the Camp 
— Pleasant Time with the Children — Shoot a Crocodile — The 
Black Rhinoceros — The Lira Head-dress — Native Use of Donkeys. 

Page, 242—262 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE NATIVES IN MOURNING. 

Results of the Ivory Campaign — Preparations for starting Homeward 
— Part regretfully with the Children — The Traveller's Tree — ^View 
of the Nile — Koshi and Madi — Gebel Kookoo — On Speke and 
Grant's Route — Changes in the Nile — The Asua River — Suspicious 
Movements of the Natives — Attacked in the Pass — Night in a 
hostile Country — Camp surrounded by Natives — Poisoned Arrows 
shot into Camp — Sight BeKgnan — Approach Gondokoro — Arrive 
at Gondokoro — Neither Letters nor Supplies — Disappointment. 

Page, 263—282 



CHAPTER IX. 

THE LATEST NEWS PEOM KHARTOUM. 

Intelligence from Khartoum — Retreat of the Slaves — Influence gained 
over Traders' People — Sail from Gondokoro — The Nile cleared of 
its Mystery— The Victoria Source— Ptolemy's Theory— Rainfall — 
Affluents of the White Nile— Action of the Abyssinian Rivers- 
Colonization impossible— Slavery the Curse of Africa— Impotence of 
European Consuls— Impossibility of convicting a Trader— Central 
Africa opened to Navigation— Tribes of Central Africa— Vestiges of 
a Pre- Adamite Creation — Geological Formation — Hypothesis of 
Equatorial Lakes— Sir Roderick Murchison's Theories confirmed 
—Sir Roderick Murchison's Address Pagi 283—308 



X CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER X. 

THE BLACK ANTELOPE. 

Antelope-shooting — ^Arrive at Junction of Bahr el Gazal — Arrive at 
the Nile Dam — Character of the Obstruction— Passage through the 
Dam — The Plague breaks out^Saat smitten by the Plague — ^Enter- 
tained by Osman Bey — Saat dies — Burial of Saat — Arrival at 
Khartoum — Albert Lake Reservoir of Nile — Destruction by the 
Plague — ^A Darkness that might be felt — Horrible Slave Cargo — 
Meet with Mahommed Her — Mahommed Her punished — Nearly 
¦wrecked — Stranded among Cataracts — Clear the Danger — Start 
from Berber to Souakim — A Row in the Desert — Combat with the 
Arabs — " Bravo, Z&eb ! " — Disarm the Arabs — Cross the Moun- 
tains — First View of the Sea — Souakim— Arrival at Suez — Farewell 
to Africa — Exertions appreciated Page 309 — 339 

Appendix 343 

Index 351 



LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS TO VOL. IL 

The Lake Frontispiece. 

Mehed^het Antelope Page 14 

Natives of Lira (1) and Madi (2) in the Camp at Shooa To face 20 
My Examination by the Chiefs on entering Unyoro — Resolved, 

that I am Speke's Brother To face 48 

The Start from the M'rooli for the Lake with Kamrasi's Satanic 

Escort Tofaee 74 

The Storm on the Albert Lake Tofaee 110 

TheBaggera 123 

Lepidosiren Annecteus 123 

The Murchison Falls, about 120 ft. high from the Victoria Nile 

or Somerset Eiver to the Level of the Albert Lake . To face 134 

The Welcome on our Eetum to the Camp at Shooa . To face 246 

Head of Black Rhinoceros 260 

The Chief of the Lira Tribe 261 



THE 

ALBERT N'YANZA. 

CHAPTEE I. 

LIFH AT OB BO. 

T7!0Il months we dragged on a miserable existence at 
Obbo, wrecked by fever; the quinine exhausted; 
thus the disease worried me almost to death, returning at 
intervals of a few days. Fortunately my wife did not 
suffer so much as I did. I had nevertheless prepared for 
the journey south ; and as travelling on foot would have 
been impossible in our weak state, I had purchased and 
trained three oxen in lieu of horses. They were named 
" Beef," " Steaks," and " Suet." " Beef " was a magnificent 
animal, but having been bitten by the flies, he so lost his 
condition that I changed his name to " Bones." We were 
ready to start, and "the natives reported that early in 
January the Asua would be fordable. I had arranged 
with Ibrahim that he should supply me with porters for 
VOL. II. B 



2 PHYSICIAN IN GENERAL. [Chap. I. 

payment in copper bracelets, and that he should accom- 
pany me with one hundred men to Kamrasi's country 
(TJnyoro), on condition that he would restrain his people 
from all misdemeanours, and that they should be entirely 
subservient to me. It was the month of December, and 
during the nine months that I had been in correspondence 
with his party I had succeeded in acquiring an extraor- 
dinary influence. Although my camp was nearly three- 
quarters of a mile from their zareeba, I had been besieged 
daily for many months for everything that was wanted ; 
my camp was a kind of general store that appeared to be 
inexhaustible. I gave all that I had with a good grace, 
and thereby gained the goodwill of the robbers, especially 
as my large medicine-chest contained a supply of drugs 
that rendered me in their eyes a physician of the first 
importance. I had been very successful with my patients ; 
and the medicines that I generally used being those 
which produced a very decided effect, both the Turks and 
natives considered them with perfect faith. There was 
seldom any difBiculty in prognosticating the effect of tartar 
emetic, and this became the favourite drug that was almost 
daily applied for; a dose of three grains enchanting the 
patient, who always advertised my fame by saying, " He 
told me I should be sick, and, by Allah ! there was no 
mistake about it." Accordingly there was a great run 
upon the tartar emetic. Many people in Debono's camp 



Chap. I.] INFLVENCH GAINED OFER THE PEOPLE. 3 

had died, including several of my deserters "who had joined 
them. News was brought that, in three separate fights 
with the natives, my deserters had been killed on every 
occasion, and my men and those of Ibrahim unhesitatingly 
declared it was the "hand of God." l^one of Ibrahim's 
men had died since we left Latooka. One man, who had 
been badly wounded by a lance thrust through his ab- 
domen, I had successfully treated ; and the trading party, 
who would at one time gladly have exterminated me, now 
exclaimed, " What shall we do when the Sowar (traveller) 
leaves the country?" Mrs. Baker had been exceedingly 
kind to the women and children of both the traders and 
natives, and together we had created so favourable an 
impression that we were always referred to as umpires in 
every dispute. My own men, although indolent, were so 
completely disciplined that they would not have dared to 
disobey an order, and they looked back upon their former 
mutinous conduct with surprise at their own audacity, 
and declared that they feared to return to Khartoum, as 
they were sure that I should not forgive them. 

I had promised Ibrahim that I would use my influence 
with the King of Unyoro to procure him the ivory of that 
country; — I had a good supply of beads, while Ibrahim 
had none ; thus he was dependent upon me for opening 
the road. Everything looked fair, and had I been strong 
and well I should have enjoyed the future prospect ; but I 

B 2 



4 KATCEIBA IS APPLIED TO FOR BAIN. [Chap. I. 

was weak and almost useless, and weighed down with 
anxiety lest I might die and my wife would be left alone. 

The rains had ceased, and the wild grapes were ripe ; 
the natives brought them in great quantities in exchange 
for a few beads. They were in extremely large bunches, 
invariably black, and of a good size, but not juicy — the 
flavour was good, and they were most refreshing, and cer- 
tainly benefited my health. I pressed about two hundred 
pounds of grapes in the large sponging bath, but procured 
so little juice, and that so thick, that wine-making proved 
a failure ; it fermented, and we drank it, but it was not 
wine. One day, hearing a great noise of voices and blow- 
ing of horns in the direction of Katchiba's residence, I sent 
to inquire the cause. The old chief himself appeared very 
angry and excited. He said, that his people were very bad, 
that they had been making a great noise and finding fault 
with him because he had not supplied them with a few 
showers, as they wanted to sow their crop of tullaboon. 
There had been no rain for about a fortnight. 

" Well," I replied, " you are the rainmaker ; why don't 
you give your people rain ? " " Give my people rain ! " 
said Katchiba. " I give them rain if they don't give me 
goats ? You don't know my people ; if I am fool enough 
to give them rain before they give me the goats, they would 
let me starve ! No, no ! let them wait — if they don't bring 
me supplies of corn, goats, fowls, yams, merissa, and all 



Chap. I.] " ARE TOU A RAINMAKER ? " 5 

that I require, not one drop of rain shall ever fall again in 
Obbo ! Impudent hrutes are my people ! Do you know, 
they have positively threatened to kill me unless I bring 
the rain ? They shan't have a drop ; I will wither the 
crops, and bring a plague upon their flocks. I'U teach 
these rascals to insult me ! " 

With aU this bluster, I saw that old Katchiba was in 
a great dilemma, and that he would give anything for a 
shower, but that he did not know how to get out of the 
scrape. It was a common freak of the tribes to sacrifice 
the rainmaker, should he be unsuccessful. He suddenly 
altered his tone, and asked, " Have you any rain in your 
country?" I replied that we had, every now and then. 
" How do you bring it ? Are you a rainmaker ? " I told 
him that no one believed in rainmakers in our country, 
but that we understood how to bottle lightning (meaning 
electricity). " I don't keep mine in bottles, but I have a 
houseful of thunder and lightning," he most coolly replied ; 
" but if you can bottle lightning you must understand rain- 
making. What do you think of the weather to-day ? " I 
immediately saw the drift of the cunning old Katchiba ; 
he wanted professional advice. I replied, that he must 
know all about it, as he was a regular rainmaker. " Of 
course I do," he answered, " but I want to kaow what ^ou 
think of it." " Well," I said, " I don't think we shall have 
any steady rain, but I think we may have a heavy shower 



6 SUCCESSFUL CASE. [Chap. I. 

in atout four days (I said this as I had observed fleecy 
clouds gathering daily in the afternoon). " Just my 
opinion!" said Katchiba, delighted; "in four or perhaps 
in five days I intend to give them one shower ; just one 
shower ; yes, I'll just step down to them now, and teU the 
rascals, that if they will bring me some goats by this even- 
ing, and some corn to-morrow morning, I will give them in 
four or five days just .one shower." To give effect to his 
declaration he gave several toots upon his magic whistle. 
" Do you use whistles in your country ? " inquired Katchiba. 
I only replied by giving so shrUl and deafening a whistle 
on my fingers that Katchiba stopped his ears ; and re- 
lapsing into a smile of admiration he took a glance at the 
sky from the doorway to see if any sudden efiect had been 
produced. " Whistle again," he said ; and once more I 
performed like the whistle of a locomotive. "That will 
do, we shall have it," said the cunning old rainmaker ; and 
proud of having so knowingly obtained " counsel's opinion " 
on his case, he toddled off to his impatient subjects. 

In a few days a sudden storm of rain and violent 
thunder added to Katchiba's renown, and after the shower, 
horns were blowing and nogaras were beating in honour 
of their chief. Entre nous, my whistle was considered 
infallible. 

The natives were busy sowing the new crop just as the 
last crop was ripening. It did not appear likely that they 



Chap. I.] NIGHT-WATCH FOR ELEPHANTS. 7 

¦would reap mucli for their labour, as the elephants, having 
an accurate knowledge of the season, visited their fields 
nightly, and devoured and trampled the greater portion. I 
had been too ill to think of shooting, as there was no other 
method than to watch in the tuHaboon fields at night ; the 
high grass, in which the elephants harboured being im- 
penetrable. Feeling a little better I took my men to the 
field about a mile from the village, and dug a hole, in 
which I intended to watch. 

That night I took Eicharn, and we sat together in 
our narrow grave. There was no sound throughout the 
night. I was well wrapped up in a Scotch plaid, but an 
attack of ague came on, and I shivered as though in Lap- 
land. I had several rifles in the grave ; among others the 
" Baby," that carried a half-pound explosive shell. At 
about 4 A.M. I heard the distant trumpet of an elephant, 
and I immediately ordered Richarn to watch, and to report 
to me their arrival. It was extremely dark, but Eicharn 
presently sank slowly down, and whispered, " Here they 
are ! " 

Taking the " Baby," I quietly rose, and listening atten- 
tively, T could distinctly hear the elephants tearing off the 
heads of the tuUaboon, and crunching the crisp grain. I 
could distinguish the dark forms of the herd about thirty 
paces from me, but much too indistinct for a shot. I stood 
with my elbows resting on the edge of the hole, and the heavy 



8 ELEPHANT KILLED. [Chap. I. 

rifle balanced, waiting for an opportunity. I had a paper- 
sight arranged for night shooting, and I several times tried 
tb get the line of an elephant's shoulder, but to no purpose; 
I could distinguish the sight clearly, but not the elephant. 
As I was watching the herd I suddenly heard a trumpet 
'close to my left, and I perceived an elephant quickly 
walking exactly towards my grave. I waited with the 
rifle at my shoulder until he was within about twelve 
paces ; I then whistled, and he stopped, and turned quickly, 
exposing his side. Taking the line of the fore-leg, I fired 
at the shoulder. The tremendous flash and smoke of ten 
drachms of powder completely blinded me, and the sudden 
reaction of darkness increased the obscurity. I could dis- 
tinguish nothing; but I heard a heavy fall, and a few 
moments after I could hear a rustling in the grass as the 
herd of elephants retreated into the grass jungles. Eicharn 
declared that the elephant had fallen ; but I again heard a 
rustling in the high grass jungle within eighty yards of 
me, and this sound continued in the same place. I accord- 
ingly concluded that the elephant was very badly wounded, 
and that he could not move from the spot. Nothing could 
be seen. 

At length the birds began to chirp, and the "black- 
smith" (as I named one of the first to wake, whose two 
sharp ringing notes exactly resemble the blows of a 
hammer upon an anvil) told me that it was nearly day- 



Chap. I.] DIMENSIONS OF THE ELEPHANT. 9 

break. The grey of morning had just appeared when I 
heard voices, and I saw Mrs. Baker coming along the field 
with a party of men, whom she had brought down from 
the village with knives and axes. She had heard the roar 
of the heavy rifle, and knowing the " Baby's " scream, and 
the usual fatal effects, she had considered the elephant as 
bagged. The natives had also heard the report, and people 
began to accumulate from all quarters for the sake of the 
flesh. The elephant was not dead, but was standing about 
ten yards within the grass jungle; however, in a short time 
a heavy fall sounded his knell, and the crowd rushed in. 
He was a flne bull, and before I allowed him to be cut 
up, I sent for the measuring-tape; the result being as 
follows : — 



From tip of trunk to flesty end of tail . . . , 

Height from shoulder to fore-foot in a perpendicular line 10 

Girth of fore-foot 

Length of one tusk in the curve . .... 

Ditto of fellow tusk (el Hadam, the servant) . . . 
"Weight of tusks, 80 lbs. and 69 lbs. =149 lbs. 



The ridiculous accounts that I have read, stating that 
the height of elephants attaias fifteen feet, is simply laugh- 
able ignorance. A difference of a foot iu an elephant's 
height is enormous ; he appears a giant among his lesser 
comrades. Observe the difference between a horse sixteen 
hands high and a pony of thirteen hands, and the dif- 



26 


Oi 


10 


6J 


4 


lOi 


6 


6 


5 


11 



10 WILB BOAMS. [Chap. I. 

ference of a foot in the height of a quadruped is exem- 
plified. 

The word being given, the crowd rushed upon the 
elephant, and about three hundred people were attacking 
the carcase with knives and lances. About a dozen men 
were working inside as though in a tumiel; they had 
chosen this locality as being near to the fat, which was 
greatly coveted. 

A few days later I attempted to set fire to the grass 
jungle, but it would not burn thoroughly, leaving scorched 
stems tliat were rendered still tougher by the fire. On the 
following evening I took a stroll over the burnt ground to 
look for game. No elephants had visited the spot ; but as 
I was walking along expecting nothing, up jumped a wild 
boar and sow from the entrance of a large hole of the 
Manis, or great sealed ant-eater. Being thus taken by 
surprise, the boar very imprudently charged me, and was 
immediately knocked over dead by a shot through the 
spine from the little Fletcher rifle, while the left-hand 
barrel rolled over his companion, who almost immediately 
recovered and disappeared in the grass jungle ; however, 
there was pork for those who liked it, and I went to the 
camp and sent a number of natives to bring it home. The 
Obbo people were delighted, as it was their favourite game, 
but none of my people would touch the unclean animal. 
The wild pigs of this country live underground ; they take 



Chap. I.] ' START FOR THE SOUTH. \ \ 

possession of the holes made by the Manis, these they 
enlarge and form cool and secure retreats. 

A bad attack of fever laid me up until the 31st of 
December. On the first day of January, 1864, I was 
hardly able to stand, and was nearly worn out at the very 
time that I required my strength, as we were to start south 
in a few days. 

Although my quinine had been long since exhausted, 
I had reserved ten grains to enable me to start in ease the 
fever should attack me at the time of departure. I now 
swallowed my last dose, and on 3d January, I find the 
following note in my journal : " All ready for a start to- 
morrow. I trust the year 1864 wiU bring better luck than 
the past, that having been the most annoying that I have 
ever experienced, and full of fever. I hope now to reach 
Kamrasi's country in a fortnight, and to obtain guides from 
him direct to the lake. My Latooka, to whom I have been 
very kind, has absconded : there is no difference in any of 
these savages; if hungry, they will fawn upon you, and 
when tilled, they wUl desert. I believe that ten years' 
residence in the Soudan and this country would spoil an 
Angel, and would turn the best heart to stone." 

It was difficult to procure porters, therefore I left all my 
effects at my camp in charge of two of my men, and I 
determined to travel light, without the tent, and to take 
little beyond ammunition and cooking utensils. Ibrahim 



12 MRS. BAKER THROWN FROM HER OX. [Chap. I. 

left forty-five men in his zareeba, and on the oth of January 
we started. Mrs. Baker rode her ox, but my animal being 
very shy, I ordered him to be driven for about a mile with 
the others to accustom him to the crowd : not approving 
of the expedition, he bolted into the high grass with my 
English saddle, and I never saw him again. In my weak 
state I had to walk. We had not gone far when a large 
fly fastened upon Mrs. Baker's ox, just by his tail, the 
effect of which was to produce so sudden a kick and 
plunge, that he threw her to the ground and hurt her 
considerably: she accordingly changed the animal, and 
rode a splendid ox that Ibrahim very civiUy offered. I 
had to walk to the Atabbi, about eighteen miles, which, 
although a pleasant stroll when in good health, I found 
rather fatiguing. We bivouacked on the south bank of 
the Atabbi. 

The next morning, after a walk of about eight miles, 
I purchased of one of the Turks the best ox that I have 
ever ridden, at the price of a double-barrelled gun — it was 
a great relief to be well mounted, as I was quite unfit for 
a journey on foot. 

At 4.30 P.M. we arrived at one of the villages of Famjoke. 
The character of the country had entirely changed ; instead 
of the rank and superabundant vegetation of Obbo, we 
were ia a beautiful open country, naturally drained by its 
undulating character, and abounding in most beautiful low 



Chap. I.] THi: AST! A RIVBB. 13 

pasturage. Vast herds of cattle belonged *to the different 
villages, but these had all been driven to concealment, 
as the report had been received that the Turks were 
approaching. The country was thickly populated, but the 
natives appeared very mistrustful ; the Turks immediately 
entered the villages, and ransacked the granaries for corn, 
digging up the yams, and helping themselves to everything 
as though quite at home. I was on a beautiful grass 
sward on the gentle slope of a hill : here I arranged to 
bivouac for the night. 

In three days' march from this point through beautiful 
park-Eke country, we arrived at the Asua river. The 
entire route from Farajoke had been a gentle descent, and 
I found this point of the Asua in lat N. 3° 12' to be 
2,875 feet above the sea level, 1,091 feet lower than 
Farajoke. The river was a hundred and twenty paces 
broad, and from the bed to the top of the perpendicular 
banks was about fifteen feet. At this season it was almost 
diy, and a narrow channel of about six inches deep flowed 
through the centre of the otherwise exhausted river. The 
bed was much obstructed by rocks, and the inchnation 
was so rapid that I could readily conceive the impossi- 
bility of crossing it during the raias. It formed the 
great drain of the country, all its waters flowing to the 
Nile, but during the dry months it was most insignificant. 
The country between Farajoke and the Asua, although 



14 



STALKING MEHEDEIIET ANTELOPE. 



[Chap. I. 

lovely, was very thinly populated, and the only villages 
that I saw were built upon low hiUs of bare granite, 
wliich lay in huge piles of disjointed fragments. 




JlEHEDtHET ANTKLOPE. 



On arrival at the river, while the men were washing 
in the clear stream, I took a rifle and strolled along the 
margin ; I shortly observed a herd of the beautifid IMe- 
hedehet antelopes feeding upon the rich but low oi-ass 
of a sandbank in the very centre of the river. Stalkin" 
them to within a hundred and twenty paces they obtained 



Chap. I.] A PRAIRIE FIRK 15 

my wind, and, ceasing to graze, they gazed intently at me. 
I was on the high bank among the bushes, and I imme- 
diately picked out the biggest, and fired, missing my mark. 
All dashed away except the animal at which I fired, who 
stood in uncertainty for a few moments, when the second 
barrel of the Fletcher 24 rifle knocked him over, striking 
him through the neck. Hearing the quick double shot, 
my people came running to the spot, accompanied by a 
number of the native porters, and were rejoiced to find 
a good supply of meat; the antelope weighed about five 
hundred pounds, and was sufficient to afford a good dinner 
for the whole party. 

The Mehed^het is about 13 hands high, with rough 
brown hair like the Samber deer of India. 

Our resting-place was on the dry, rocky bed of the 
river, close to the edge of the shallow but clear stream 
that rippled over the uneven surface. Some beautiful 
tamarind trees afforded a most agreeable shade, and alto- 
gether it was a charming place to bivouac. Although 
at Obbo the grass was not sufficiently dry to burn, in 
this coimtry it was reduced to a crisp straw, and I imme- 
diately set fire to the prairies ; the wind was strong, and 
we had a grand blaze, the flames crackling and leaping 
about thirty feet high, and sweeping along with so mad 
a fury that within an hour the entire country was a 
continuous liue of fire. Not a trace of vegetation re- 



16 TRACKING AN ANTELOPE. [Chap. I. 

mained iDehind ; the country appeared as though covered 
with a pall of black velvet. Eetuming from my work, 
I found my camping-place weU arranged — beds prepared, 
and a good dinner ready of antelope-soup and cutlets. 

On waking the next morning, I found that the Turks 
had aU disappeared during the night, and that I was alone 
with my people. It was shortly explained that they had 
departed to attack some village, to which they were 
guided by some natives who had accompanied them from 
Farajoke. 

I accordingly took my rifle and strolled along the 
margin of the river to look for game, accompanied by two 
of my porters. Although it was a most likely country, 
being a natural park well timbered, with a river flowing 
through the midst, there was a great scarcity of wild 
animals. At length, in crossing a ravine that had stopped 
the progress of the fire, an antelope (water-buck) jumped 
out of a hoUow, and, rushing through the high grass, he 
exposed himself for an instant in crossing the summit of 
a bare knoU, and received a ball from the little Fletcher 
in the hind-queers. Although badly wounded, he was 
too nimble for my natives, who chased him with their 
spears for about a quarter of a mile. These fellows 
tracked him beautifully, and we at length found him 
hiding in a deep pool in the river, and he was immediately 
despatched. 



Chap. I.] TURKS' STANDARD-BEARER KILLED. 17 

After a long walk, during -which I did not ohtain another 
shot, I returned to my resting-place, and, refreshed by 
a bathe in the cool river, I slept as sound as though in 
the most luxurious bed ia England. On the following 
morning I went out early, and shot a small species of 
antelope; and shortly after my return to breakfast, the 
Turks' party arrived, bringing with them about three 
hundred head of cattle that they had captured from the 
Madi tribe. They did not seem at all in good spirits, and 
I shortly heard that they had lost their standard-bearer, 
killed in the fight, and that the flag had been in great 
peril, and had been saved by the courage of a young Ban 
slave. The ensign was separated from the main party, and 
was attacked by four natives, who killed the bearer, and 
snatched away the flag : this would inevitably have been 
lost, had not the Bari boy of about fifteen shot the fore- 
most native dead with a pistol, and, snatching the flag 
from his hands, ran with it towards the Turks, some of 
whom coming up at that instant, the natives did not think 
it wise to pursue their advantage. A number of slaves 
had been captured ; among others, several young children, 
one of whom was an infant. These unfortunate women 
and children, excepting the infant, were all tied by the 
neck with a long leathern thong, so as to form a living 
chain, and guards were set over them to prevent escape. 
The Bari natives would make good soldiers, as they are 

VOL. n. c 



18 ABBIFAL AT 8H00A. [Chap. I. 

far more courageous than most of the savage tribes. The 
best men among the party of Ibrahim are Bans ; among 
them is a boy named Arnout ; he is the drummer, and he 
once saved his master in a light by suddenly presenting 
his drumstick like a pistol at several natives, who had 
attacked him while unloaded. The natives, seeing the 
determined attitude of the boy, and thinking that the 
drumstick was a firearm, ran off. We started at day- 
break on 13th January, and, ascending the whole way, 
we reached Shooa, in latitude 3° 4'. The route throughout 
had been of the same park-Kke character, interspersed 
with occasional hills of fine granite, piled in the enormous 
blocks so characteristic of that stone. 

Shooa was a lovely place. A fine granite mountain 
ascended in one block in a sheer precipice for about 800 
feet from its base, perfectly abrupt on the eastern side, 
while the other portions of the mountain were covered 
with fine forest trees, and picturesquely dotted over with 
villages. This country formed a natural park, remarkably 
well watered by numerous rivulets, ornamented with fine 
timber, and interspersed with numerous high rocks of 
granite, which from a distance produced the effect of 
ruined castles. 

The pasturage was "of a superior quality, and of the 
same description as that of Farajoke. The country being 
undulating,, there was a small brook in every valley that 



Chap. I.] THE NEIOHBOUBHOOD OF SHOOA. 19 

formed a natural drain. Accordingly, the more elevated 
land was remarkably dry and healthy. On arrival at 
the foot of the abrupt mountain, we camped beneath an 
immense india-rubber tree, that afforded a delightful shade, 
from which elevated spot we had a superb view of the 
surrounding country, and cotdd see the position of 
Debono's camp, about twenty-five miles to the west by 
north, at the foot of the Taloro hOls. 

By CaseUa's thermometer, I determined the altitude of 
Shooa to be 3,877 feet— 1,002 feet above the Asua river, 
and 89 feet lower than Parajoke. These observations of 
the thermometer agreed with the natural appearance of the 
country, the Asua river forming the main drain in a deep 
valley, into which innumerable rivulets convey the drain- 
age from both north and south. Accordingly, the Asua, 
receiving the Atabbi river, which is the main drain of the 
western face of the Madi mountains, and the entire drain- 
age of the Madi and Shooa countries, together with that of 
extensive countries to the east of Shooa, including the 
rivers Chombi and TJdat, from Lira and Umiro, it becomes 
a tremendous torrent so long as the rains continue, and 
conveys a grand volume of water to the Nile; but the 
inchnation of all these countries tending rapidly to the 
north-west, the bed of the Asua river partakes of the 
general incline, and so quickly empties after the cessation 
of the rains that it becomes nil as a river. By the mean 

c2 



20 FRUTTFULNESS OF SHOOA. [Chap. I. 

of several olDservations I determined the latitude of Shooa 
3° 04', longitude 32° 04' E. We were now about twelve 
miles south of Dehono's outpost, Faloro. The whole of 
the Sho'oa ' country was assumed to belong to Mahommed 
Wat-el-Mek, the vakeel of Dehono, and we had passed the 
ashes of several villages that had been burnt and plundered 
by these people between Farajoke and this point; the 
entire country had been laid waste. 

There was no great chief at Shooa ; each village had a 
separate headman; formerly the population had occupied 
the lower ground, but since the Turks had been established 
at Faloro and had plundered the neighbouring tribes, the 
natives had forsaken their villages and had located them- 
selves among the mountains for security. It was the 
intention of Ibrahim to break through the rules accepted 
by the White Nile traders, and to establish himself at 
Shooa, which, although claimed by Debono's people, would 
form an excellent point d'appui for operations towards the 
unknown south. C^ - 

Shooa was " flowing with milk and honey ; " fowls, 
butter, goats, were in abundance and ridiculously cheap ; 
beads were of great value, as few had ever reached that 
country. The women flocked to see Mrs. Baker, bringing 
presents of milk and flour, and receiving beads and 
bracelets in return. The people were precisely the same 
as those of Obbo and Farajoke in language and appearance, 



Chap. L] ABSCONDING OF OBBO PORTERS. 21 

exceedingly mild in their manner, and anxious to be on 
good terms. 

The cultivation in this country was superior to anything 
that I had seen farther north ; large quantities of sesam^ 
were grown and carefully harvested, the crop being 
gathered and arranged in oblong frames about twenty feet 
long by twelve high. These were inclined at an angle of 
about sixty — the pods of the sesam^ plants on one face, so 
that the frames resembled enormous brushed In this 
manner the crop was dried previous to being stored in the 
granaries. Of the latter there were two kinds — the wicker- 
work smeared with cow-dung, supported on four posts, 
with a thatched roof ; and a simple contrivance by fixing 
a stoat pole about twenty feet long perpendicularly in the 
earth. About four feet from the ground a bundle of strong 
and long reeds are tied tightly round the pole ; hoops of 
wicker-work are then bound round them at intervals until 
they assume the form of an inverted umbrella half ex- 
panded ; this being filled with grain, fresh reeds are added, 
until the work has extended to within a few feet of the 
top of the pole ; the whole is then capped with reeds 
securely strapped : the entire granary has the appearance 
of a cigar, but thicker in proportion about the middle. 

Two days after our arrival at Shooa, the whole of our 
Obbo porters absconded: they had heard that we were 
bound for Kamrasi's country, and having received ex- 



22 " WHEELS WITHIN WHEELS." [Chap. I. 

aggerated accounts of his power from tlie Shooa people, 
they had determined upon retreat : thus we were at once 
unable to proceed, unless we could procure porters from 
Shooa. This was exceedingly difficult, as Kamrasi was 
well known here, and was not loved. His country was 
known as "Quanda," and I at once recognised the 
corruption of Speke's "Uganda." The slave woman, 
" Bacheeta," who had formerly given me in Obbo so much 
information concerning Kamrasi's country, was to be owe 
interpreter; but we also had the luck to discover a lad 
who had formerly been employed by Mahommed in 
Faloro, who also spoke the language of Quanda, and had 
learnt a little Arabic. I now discovered that the slave 
woman Bacheeta had formerly been in the service of a 
chief named Sali, who had been killed by Kamrasi. Sali 
was a friend of Eionga (Kamrasi's greatest enemy), and 
I had been warned by Speke not to set foot upon Eionga's 
territory, or all travelling in Unyoro would be cut off. 
I plainly saw that Bacheeta was in favour of Eionga, as 
a friend of the murdered SaU, by whom she had had two 
children, and that she would most likely tamper with the 
guide, and that we should be led to Eionga instead of to 
Kamrasi. There were " wheels within wheels." It was 
now reported that ia the past year, immediately after 
the departure of Speke and Grant from Gondokoro, when 
Debono's people had left me in the manner already de- 



Chap. L] DIFFICULTY IN STARTING SOUTH. 23 

scribed, they liad marclied direct to Eionga, allied them- 
selves to him, crossed the Nile with his people, and had 
attacked Kamrasi's country, killing about three hundred 
of his men, and capturing many slaves. I now under- 
stood why they had deceived me at Gondokoro; they 
had obtained information of the country from Speke's 
people, and had made use of it by immediately attacking 
Kamrasi in conjunction with Eionga. 

This would be a pleasant introduction for me on enter- 
ing TJnyorOj as almost immediately after the departure 
of Speke and Grant, Kamrasi had been invaded by the 
very people into whose hands his messengers had delivered 
them, when they were guided from Unyoro to the Turks' 
station at Faloro; he would naturally have considered 
that the Turks had been sent by Speke to attack him; 
thiis the road appeared closed to all exploration, through 
the atrocities of Debono's people. 

Many of Ibrahim's men, at hearing this intelligence, 
refused to proceed to Unyoro. Fortunately for me, Ibra- 
him had been extremely unlucky in procuring ivory ; the 
year had almost passed away, and he had a mere nothing 
with which to return to Gondokoro. I impressed upon 
him how enraged Koorshid would be should he return 
with such a trifle; already his own men declared that 
he was neglecting razzias, because he was to receive a 
present from me if we reached Unyoro ; this they would 



24 DEPARTURE FROM SHOOA. [Chap. I. 

report to his master (Koorsliid), and it woiild be believed 
should he fail in securiag ivory. I guaranteed him 100 
cantars (10,000 lbs.) if he would push on at all hazards 
with me to Jfcamrasi, and secure me porters from Shooa. 
Ibrahim behaved remarkably weU. Tor some time past 
I had acquired a great influence over him, and he depended 
so thoroughly upon my opinion that he declared himself 
ready to do all that I suggested. Accordingly I desired 
him to call his men together, and to leave in Shooa all 
those "who were disinclined to follow us. 

At once I arranged for a start, lest some fresh idea 
should enter the ever-suspicious brains of our followers, 
and mar the expedition. 

It was difficult to procure porters, and I abandoned 
all that was not indispensable — our last few pounds of 
rice and coffee, and even the great sponging-bath, that 
emblem of civilization that had been clung to even when 
the tent had been left behind. 

On the 18th January, 1864, we left Shooa. The pure 
air of that country had invigorated us, and I was so 
improved in strength, that I enjoyed the excitement of 
the launch into unknown lands. The Turks knew nothing 
of the route south, and I accordingly took the lead of the 
entire party. I had come to a distinct understanding 
with Ibrahim that Kamrasi's country should belong to 
me ; not an act of felony would be permitted ; all were 



Chap. I.] FATIKO LEVEE. 25 

to be under my govermnent, and I would insure liim at 
least 100 cantars of tusks. 

Eight miles of agreeable march, through the usual park- 
like country brought us to the village of Fatiko, situated 
upon a splendid plateau of rock upon elevated ground, 
with beautiful granite cliffs, bordering a level table-land of 
fine grass that would have formed a racecourse. The high 
rocks were covered with natives, perched upon the outline 
like a flock of ravens. 

We halted to rest under some fine trees growing among 
large isolated blocks of granite and gneiss. 

In a short time the natives assembled around us : they 
were wonderfully friendly, and insisted upon a personal 
introduction to both myself and Mrs. Baker. We were 
thus compelled to hold a levee ; not the passive and cold 
ceremony of Europe, but a most active undertaking, as 
each native that was introdiiced performed the salaam of 
his country, by seizing both my hands and raising my 
arms three times to their full stretch above my head. 
After about one hundred Fatikos had been thus gratified 
by our submission to this infliction, and our arms had 
been subjected to at least three hundred stretches each, 
I gave the order to saddle the oxen immediately, and 
we escaped a further proof of Fatiko affection that was 
already preparing, as masses of natives were streaming 
down the rocks hurrying to be introduced. Notwith- 



26 BOUNDLESS PRAIRIES. [Chap. I. 

standing the fatigue of the ceremony, I took a great fancy- 
to these poor people : they had prepared a quantity of 
merissa and a sheep for our lunch, which they begged 
us to remain and enjoy before we started ; but the pump- 
ing action of half a village not yet gratified by a pre- 
sentation was too much; and mounting our oxen, with 
aching shoulders we bade adieu to Fatiko. 

Descending the picturesque rocky hiU of Fatiko, we 
entered upon a totally distinct coimtry. We had now 
before us an interminable sea of prairies, covering to' the 
horizon a series of gentle undulations iuclining from east 
to west. There were no trees except the dolape palms ; 
these were scattered at long intervals in the bright yellow 
surface of high grass. The path was narrow, but good, 
and after an hour's march we halted for the night on the 
banks of a deep and clear stream, the TJn-y-am^; — this 
stream is perennial, and receiving many rivulets from 
Shooa, it forms a considerable torrent during the rainy 
season, and joins the Nile in N. lat. 3° 32' at the limit 
reached by Signer Miani, 1859, the first traveller who 
ever attained a point so far south in Nile explorations 
from Egypt. There was no wood for fires, neither dung 
of animals ; thus without fuel we went supperless to bed. 
Although the sun was painfully hot during the day, the 
nights were so cold (about 55° Fahr.) that we could 
hardly sleep. 



Chap. I.] FIRE THE PRAIRIES. 27 

For two days we marched tliroiigli high dry grass, 
(ahout ten feet), when a clear night allowed an observa- 
tion, and the meridian altitude of Capella gaye latitude 
2° 45' 37". In this interminable sea of prairie it was in- 
teresting to watch our progress south. 

On the following day our guide lost the road ; a large 
herd of elephants had obscured it by trampling hundreds 
of paths in all directions. The wiad was strong from the 
north, and I proposed to clear the country to the south 
by firing the prairies. There were numerous deep swamps 
in the bottoms between the undulations, and upon arrival 
at one of these green dells we fired the grass on the 
opposite side. In a few minutes it roared before us, and 
we enjoyed the grand sight of the boundless prairies 
blazing like infernal regions, and rapidly clearing a path 
south. Mocks of buzzards and the beautiful varieties of 
fly-catchers thronged to the dense smoke to prey upon 
the innumerable insects that endeavoured to escape from 
the approaching fire. 

In about an hour we marched over the black and 
smoking ground, every now and then meeting dead 
stumps of palm trees blazing ; until we at length reached 
another swamp. There the fire had terminated in its 
course south, being stopped .by the high green reeds, and 
it was raging to the east and west. Again the tedious 
operation had to be performed, and the grass was fired in 



28 DECEIT OF THE GUIDE. [Chap. I. 

many places on the opposite side of the swamp, while we 
waited until the cleared way was sufficiently cool to allow 
the march. We were perfectly black, as the wind brought 
showers of ashes that fell like snow, but turned us into 
Ethiopians. I had led the way on foot from the hour we 
left Patiko, as, the country being uninhabited for five 
days' march between that place and Kamrasi's, the men 
had more faith in my steering by the compass than they 
had in the native guide. I felt sure that we were being 
deceived, and that the woman Bacheeta had directed the 
guide to take us to Eionga's. Accordingly that night, 
when Canopus was in the meridian, I asked our conductor 
to point by a star the direction of Karuma Falls. He 
immediately pointed to Canopus, which I knew by Speke's 
map should be the direction of Eionga's islands, and I 
charged him with the deceit. He appeared very much 
astonished, and asked me "why I wanted a guide if I 
knew the way?" confessing that Karuma Falls were "a 
little to the east of the star." I thanked Speke and Grant 
at that moment, and upon many other occasions, for the 
map they had so generously given me ! It has been my 
greatest satisfaction to have completed their great dis- 
covery, and to bear testimony to the correctness of their 
map and general observations. 

The march was exceedingly fatiguing : there was a 
swamp at least every haK hour during the day, at each of 



Chap. I.] TJEDIOUS MARCH. 29 

which we had the greatest difficulty in driving the oxen, 
who were ahove the girths in mud. One swamp was so 
deep that we had to carry the luggage piecemeal on an 
angarep by about twelve men, and my wife being sub- 
jected to the same operation was too heavy, and the people 
returned with her as impracticable. I accordingly volun- 
teered for service, and carried her on my back ; but when 
in the middle of the swamp, the tenacious bottom gave 
way, and I sani, and remained immoveably fixed, while 
she floundered frog-like in the muddy vs^ater. I was extri- 
cated by the united efforts of several men, and she was 
landed by being dragged through the swamp. We marched 
for upwards of ten hours per day, so great were the delays 
in crossing the morasses and in clearing off the grass 
jungle by burning. 

On the fourth day we left the prairies, and entered a 
noble forest ; this was also so choked with high grass that 
it was impossible to proceed vsdthout burning the country 
in advance. There had been no semblance of a path for 
some time ; and the only signs of game that we had seen 
were the tracks of elephants and a large herd of buffaloes, 
the fire having scared all wild animals from the neigh- 
bourhood. An attack of fever seized me suddenly, and 
I was obliged to lie down for four or five hours under a 
tree until the fit had passed away, when, weak and good 
for nothiag, I again mounted my ox and rode on. 



30 ARRIVE AT BIONOA'S COUNTRY. [Chap. I. 

On the 22d January, from an elevated position in the 
forest at sunrise, we saw a cloud of fog hanging in a 
distant valley, which betokened the presence of the 
Somerset river. The guide assured us that we should 
reach the river that day. I extract the note from my 
journal on that occasion : — 

"Marched, 6h. 20m., reaching the Somerset river, or 
Victoria White Nile. I never made so tedious a journey, 
owing to the delays of grass, streams, and deep swamps, 
but since we gained the forest these obstacles were not 
so numerous. Many tracks of elephants, rhinoceros, and 
buffaloes ; but we saw nothing. Halted about eighty feet 
above the river ; altitude above sea-level, by observation, 
3,864 ft. I went to the river to see if the other side was 
inhabited; saw two villages on an island; the natives 
came across in a canoe, bringiug the Trrother of Rionga 
with them ; the guide, as I had feared during the journey, 
has deceived us, and taken us direct to Eionga's country. 
On the north side the river all is uninhabited forest, full 
of buffalo and elephant pitfalls, into which three of our 
cattle have already fallen, including my beautiful riding 
ox, which is thus so sprained as to be rendered useless. 

"The natives at first supposed we were Mahommed 
Wat-el-Mek's people, but finding their mistake they would 
give no information, merely saying that the lake was not 
far from here. They said ' they were friends of Mahom- 



Chap. I.] START FOR KARUMA. 31 

med's people who attacked Kamrasi, and Eionga being 
Ms enemy became their ally.' I must now be very 
careful, lest the news should reach Kamrasi that I am in 
Eionga's country, which would cut off aU chance of travel- 
ling in Unyoro. 

"The slave woman, Bacheeta, secretly instructed the 
guide to lead us to Eionga instead of to Kamrasi, pre- 
cisely as I had suspected. The Karuma FaUs are a day's 
march east of this, at which point we must cross the river. 
Obtained a clear observation of Capella, meridian altitude 
showing latitude 2° 18' K" 

We could get no supplies from Eionga's people, who 
returned to their island after their conference with 
Bacheeta, promising to send us some plantains and a 
basket of flour; but upon gaining their secure retreat 
they shouted, " that we might go to Kamrasi if we liked, 
but that we should receive no assistance from them." 

Early in the morning we started for Karuma. This 
part of the forest was perfectly open, as the grass had 
been burnt by the natives about three weeks ago, and the 
young shoots of the vines were appearing from the 
scorched roots ; among other plants was an abundance 
of the prickly asparagus, of which I collected a basketful. 
Nothing could exceed the beauty of the march. Our 
course through the noble forest was parallel with the 
river, that roared beneath us on our right in a succession 



32 THE KJRUMA FALLS. [Chap. I. 

of rapids and falls between high cliffs covered with 
groves of bananas ' and varieties of palms, including the 
graceful wild date— the certain sign of either marsh or 
river. The Victoria Nile or Somerset river was about 150 
yards wide; the cliffs on the south side were higher than 
those upon the north, being about 150 feet above the 
river. These heights were thronged with natives, who had 
collected from the numerous villages that ornamented the- 
cliffs situated among groves of plantains ; they were 
armed with spears and shields ; the population ran parallel 
to our line of march, shouting and gesticulating as though 
daring us to cross the river. 

After a most enjoyable march through the exciting scene 
of the glorious river crashing over innumerable falls — and 
in many places ornamented with rocky islands, upon which 
were villages and plantain groves — we at length approached 
the Karuma Falls, close to the village of Atada above the 
ferry. The heights were crowded with natives, and a 
canoe was sent across to within parleying distance of our 
side, as the roar of the rapids prevented our voices from 
being heard except at a short distance. Bacheeta now 
explained, that "SpeJce's hrother had arrived from his 
country to pay Kamrasi a visit, and had brought hiTin 
valuable presents." 

"Why has he brought so many men with him?" 
inquired the people from the canoe. 



Chap. I.] WELCOME BT KAMRASVS PEOPLE. 33 

" There are so many presents for the M'Kamma (king) 
that he has many men to carry them," shonted Bacheeta. 

" Let us look at him ! " cried the headman in the boat, 
having prepared for the introduction by changing my 
clothes in a grove of plantains for my dressing-room, 'and 
altering my costume to a tweed suit, something similar to 
that worn by Speke, I climbed up a high and almost 
perpendicular rock that formed a natural pinnacle on the 
face of the cliff, and, waving my cap to the crowd on the 
opposite side, I looked almost as imposing as Nelson in 
Trafalgar Square. 

I instructed Bacheeta, who climbed up the giddy height 
after me, to shout to the people that an English lady, my 
wife, had also arrived, and that we wished immediately to 
be presented to the king and his family, as we had come to 
thank him for his kind treatment of Speke and Grant, 
who had ajrrived safe in their own country. Upon this 
being explained and repeated several times, the canoe 
approached the shore. 

I ordered all our people to retire, and to conceal them- 
selves among the plantains, that the natives might not be 
startled by so imposing a force, while Mrs. Baker and I 
advanced alone to meet Kamrasi's people, who were men 
of some importance. Upon landing through the high 
reeds, they immediately recognised the similarity of my 
beard and general complexion to that of Speke ; and their 

VOL. II. D 



34 PASSAGE OF TEM BIVEB FORBIDDEN. [Chap. I. 

welcome was at once displayed by the most extravagant 
dancing and gesticulating with lances and shields, as 
though intendiag to attack, rushiag at me with the points 
of their lances thrust close to my face, and shouting and 
singing in great excitement. 

I made each of them a present of a bead necklace, and 
explained to them my wish that there should be no delay 
in my presentation to Kamrasi, as Speke had complained 
that he had been kept waiting fifteen days before the king 
had condescended to see him; that, if this occurred, no 
Englishman would ever visit him, as such a reception 
would be considered an insult. The headman replied 
that he felt sure I was not an impostor; but that very 
shortly after the departure of Speke and Grant in the 
previous year, a number of people had arrived in their 
name, introducing themselves as their greatest friends: 
they had been ferried across the river, and weU received 
by Kamrasi's orders, and had been presented with ivory, 
slaves, and leopard skins, as tokens of friendship ; but 
they had departed, and suddenly returned with Eionga's 
people, and had attacked the vUlage in which they had 
been so well received; and upon the country being 
assembled to resist them, about three hundred of Kamrasi's 
men had been killed in the fight. The king had therefore 
given orders that, upon pain of death, no stranger should 
cross the river. He continued : that when they saw our 



Chap. I.] TO AWAIT REPLY OF KAMRASI. 35 

people marcMng along the bank of the river, they imagined 
them to be the same party that had attacked them 
formerly, and they were prepared to resist them, and had 
sent on a messenger to Kamrasi, who was three days' 
march from Karuma, at his capital M'rooli ; Tintil they 
received a reply, it would be impossible to allow ns to 
enter the country. He promised to despatch another 
messenger immediately to inform the king who we were, 
but that we must certainly wait until his return. I 
explained that we had nothing to eat, and that it would be 
very inconvenient to remain in such a spot ; that I con- 
sidered the suspicion displayed was exceedingly unfair, as 
they must see that my wife and I were white people hke 
Speke and Grant, whereas those who had deceived them 
were of a totally different race, all being either black or 
brown. 

I told him that it did not much matter ; that I had very 
beautiful presents intended for Kamrasi ; but that another 
great king would be only too glad to accept them, without 
throwing obstacles in my way. I should accordingly 
return with my presents. 

At the same time I ordered a handsome Persian carpet, 
about fifteen feet square, to be displayed as one of the 
presents intended for the king. The gorgeous colours, as 
the carpet was unfolded, produced a general exclamation : 
before the effect of astonishment wore off, I had a basket 

D 2 



36 THE NATIFWS DREAD OF KAMBASI. [Chap. I. 

unpacked, and displayed upon a cloth a heap of superb 
necklaces, that we had prepared while at Obbo, of the 
choicest beads, many as large as marbles, and glittering 
with every colour of the rainbow. The garden of jewels 
of Aladdin's wonderful lamp could not have produced more 
enticing fruit. Beads were extremely rare in Kamrasi's 
land ; the few that existed had arrived from Zanzibar, and 
all that I exhibited were entirely new varieties. I ex- 
plained that I had many other presents,' but that it was 
not necessary to unpack them, as we were about to return 
with them to visit another king, who live& some days' 
journey distant. " Don't go ; don't go away," said the 

headman and his companions. " Kamrasi wUl ." 

Here an unmistakeable pantomimic action explained their 
meaning better than words; throwing their heads well 
back, they sawed across their throats with their forefingers, 
making horrible grimaces, indicative of the cutting of 
throats. I could not resist laughing at the terror that 
my threat of returning with the presents had created; 
they explained, that Kamrasi would not only kill them, 
but would destroy the entire village of Atada should we 
return without visiting him, but that he would perhaps 
punish them in precisely the same maimer should they 
ferry us across without special orders. "Please your- 
selves," I replied ; " if my party is not ferried across by 
the time the sim reaches that spot on the heavens (point- 



Chap. I.] THEY HOLD A CONFBRENCK dj 

ing to tlie position it would occupy at about 3 p.m.), I shall 
return." In a state of great excitement they promised to 
hold a conference on the other side, and to see what 
arrangements could be made. They returned to Atada, 
leaving the whole party, including Ibrahim, exceediagly 
disconcerted — having nothing to eat, an impassable river 
before them, and five days' march of uninhabited wilder- 
ness in their rear. 

Karuma Palls were about three hundred yards to our 
left as we faced Atada ; they were very insignificant, not 
exceeding five feet in height, but curiously regular, as a 
ridge of rock over which they fell extended like a wall 
across the river. The falls were exactly at the bend of the 
river, which, from that point, turned suddenly to the west. 

The whole day passed in shouting and gesticulating our 
peaceful intentions to the crowd assembled on the heights 
on the opposite side of the river, but the boat did not 
return until long after the time appointed ; even then the 
natives would only approach sufficiently near to be heard, 
but nothing would induce them to land. They explained, 
that there was a division of opinion among the people on 
the other side ; some were ia favour of receiving us, but 
the greater number were of opinion that we intended 
hostilities ; therefore we must wait until orders could be 
sent from the king. 

To assure the people of our peaceful intentions, I begged 



38 RBSOLFE TO CROSS THE BIVER ALONE. [Chap. I. 

them to take Mrs. Baker and myseK ALONE, and to leave 
the armed party on this side of the river until a reply 
should be received from Kamrasi. At this suggestion the 
hoat immediately returned to the other side. 

The day passed away, and as the sun set we perceived 
the canoe again paddling across the river; this time it 
approached direct, and the same people landed that had 
received the necklaces in the morning. They said that 
they had held a conference with the headman, and that 
they had agreed to receive my wife and myself, but no 
other person. I replied, that my servants must accompany 
us, as we were quite as great personages as Kamrasi, and 
could not possibly travel without attendants. To this 
they demurred ; therefore I dropped the subject, and pro- 
posed to load the canoe with all the presents intended for 
Kamrasi. There was no objection to this, and I ordered 
Kicharn, Saat, and Ibrahim to get inta the canoe to stow 
away the luggage as it should be handed to them, but on 
no account to leave the boat. I had already prepared 
everything in readiness; and a bundle of rifles tied up 
in a large blanket, and 500 rounds of ball cartridge, were 
unconsciously received on board as presents. I had in- 
structed Ibrahim to accompany us as my servant, as he 
was better than most of the men in the event of a row ; 
and I had given orders, that in case of a preconcerted signal 
being given, the whole force should swim the river, sup- 



Chap. I.] THE FERRY OF ATADA. 39 

porting themselves and guns upon bundles of papyrus rush. 
The men thought us perfectly mad, and declared that we 
should be murdered immediately when on the other side ; 
however, they prepared for crossing the river in case of 
treachery. 

At the last moment, when the boat was about to leave 
the shore, two of the best men jumped in with their guns ; 
however, the natives positively refused to start ; therefore, 
to avoid suspicion, I ordered them to retire, but I left word 
that on the morrow I would send the canoe across with 
supplies, and that one or two men should endeavour to 
accompany the boat to our side on every trip. 

It was quite dark when we started. The canoe was 
formed of a large hollow tree, capable of holding twenty 
people, and the natives paddled us across the rapid current 
just below the falls. A large fire was blazing upon the 
opposite shore, on a level with the river, to guide us to the 
landing-place. Gliding through a narrow passage in the 
reeds, we touched the shore and landed upon a slippery 
rock, close to the fire, amidst a crowd of people, who 
immediately struck up a deafening welcome with horns and 
flageolets, and marched us up the steep face of the rocky 
cliff through a dark grove of bananas. Torches led the 
way, followed by a long file of spearmen ; then came the 
noisy band and ourselves — I towing my wife up the pre- 
cipitous path, while my few attendants followed behind 



40 RBCJEPTION BT KEEDJA. [Chap. I. 

with a number of natives who had volunteered to carry 
the luggage. 

On arrival at the top of the cliff, we w;ere about 180 feet 
above the river, and after a walk of about a quarter of 
a mile, we were triumphantly led into the heart of the 
village, and halted in a small courtyard in front of the 
headman's residence. 

Keedja waited to receive us by a blazing fire. Not 
having had anything to eat, we were uncommonly hungry, 
and to our great delight a basketful of ripe plantains was 
presented to us; these were the first that I had seen for 
many years. A gourd bottle of plantain wine was offered, 
and immediately emptied; it resembled extremely poor 
cider. We were now surrounded by a mass of natives, no 
longer the naked savages to whom we had been accus- 
tomed, but well-dressed men, wearing robes of bark cloth, 
arranged in various fashions, generally like the Arab " tope,'' 
or the Roman toga. Several of the headmen now explained 
to us the atrocious treachery of Debono's men, who had 
been welcomed as friends of Speke and Grant, but who 
had repaid the hospitality by plundering and massacreing 
their hosts. I assured them that no one would be more 
wroth than Speke when I should make him aware of the 
manner in which his name had been used, and that I 
should make a point of reporting the circumstance to the 
British Government. At the same time I advised them 



Chap. I.] APPELLATIONS OF SPBKE AND GRANT. 41 

not to trust any but white people, should others arrive in 
my name, or in those of Speke and Grant. I upheld their 
character as that of Englishmen, and I begged them to 
state " if ever they had deceived them 1 " They replied, 
that " there could not be better men." I answered, " You 
must trust me, as I trust entirely ia you, and have placed 
myself in your hands ; but if you have ever had cause to 
mistrust a white man, kill me at once ! — either kiU me, or 
trust in me ; but let there be no suspicions." 

They seemed much pleased with the conversation, and a 
man stepped forward and showed me a small string of 
blue beads that Speke had given him for ferrying him 
across the river. This little souvenir of my old friend was 
most interesting ; after a year's wandering and many diflEi- 
culties, this was the first time that I had actually come 
upon his track. Many people told me that they had known 
Speke and Grant ; the former bore the name of " MoUeggd " 
(the bearded one), while Grant had been named " Masanga " 
(the elephant's tusk), owing to his height. The latter had 
been wounded at Lucknow during the Indian mutiny, and 
I spoke to the people of the loss of his finger'; this crowned 
my success, as they knew without doubt that I had seen 
him. It was late, therefore I begged the crowd to depart, 
but to send a messenger the first thing in the morniag to 
inform Kamrasi who we were, and to beg him to permit us 
to visit him without loss of time. 



42 NATIVE CUBIOSITT. [Chap. I. 

A TDimdle of straw was laid on the grouiid for Mrs. 
Baker and myself, and, in lieu of other beds, the ground 
was our resting-place. It was bitterly cold that night, as 
the guns were packed up in the large blanlcet, and, not 
wishing to expose them, we were contented with a Scotch 
plaid each. Ibrahim, Saat, and Eicham watched by turns. 

On the following morniog an immense crowd of natives 
thronged to see us. There was a very beautiful tree about 
a hundred yards from the village, capable of shading 
upwards of a thousand men, and I proposed that we should 
sit beneath this protection and hold a conference. The 
headman of the village gave us a large hut with a grand 
doorway of about seven feet high, of which my wife took 
possession, while I joined the crowd at the tree. There 
were about six hundred men seated respectfully on the 
ground around me, while I sat with my back to the huge 
knotty trunk, with Ibrahim and Eicham at a few paces 
distant. 

The subject of conversation was merely a repetition of 
that of the preceding night, with the simple addition of 
some questions respecting the lake. Not a man would 
give the slightest information; the only reply, upon my 
forcing the question, was the pantomime already described, 
by passing the forefinger across the throat, and exclaiming, 
"Kamrasi!" The entire population was tongue-locked. 
I tried the children ; to no purpose, they were all dumb. 



Chap. I.] FB.EBMASONRT OF UNTORO. 43 

"White-lieaded old men I questioned as to the distance of 
the lake from this point : they replied, " We are children, 
ask the old people who know the country." Never was 
freemasonry more secret than the land of Unyoro. It was 
useless to persevere. I therefore changed the subject by 
saying that our people were starving on the other side, aad 
that provisions must be sent immediately. In all savage 
countries the most trifling demand requires much talking. 
They said that provisions were scarce, and that until 
Kamrasi should give the order, they could give no supplies. 
Understanding most thoroughly the natural instincts of 
the natives, I told them that I must send the canoe across 
to fetch three oxen that I wished to slaughter. The bait 
took at once, and several men ran for the canoe, and we 
sent one of our black women across with a message to the 
people that three men, with their guns and ammunition, 
were to accompany the canoe and guide three oxen across 
by swimming them with ropes tied to their horns. These 
were the riding oxen of some of the men that it was neces- 
sary to slaughter, to exchange the flesh for flour and other 
supplies. 

Hardly had the few boatmen departed, than some one 
shouted suddenly, and the entire crowd sprang to their feet 
and rushed towards the hut where I had left Mrs. Baker. 
For the moment I thought that the hut was on fire, and I 
joined the crowd and arrived at the doorway, where I found 



44 THE BARK CLOTH OF UNYOBO. [Chap. I. 

a tremendous press to see some extraordinary sight. Every- 
one was squeezing for the best place ; and, driving them 
on one side, I found the wonder that had excited their 
curiosity. The hut being very dark, my wife had employed 
her solitude during my conference with the natives in 
dressing her hair at the doorway, which, being very long 
and blonde, was suddenly noticed by some natives — a 
shout was given, the rush described had taken place, and 
the hut was literally mobbed by the crowd of savages 
eager to see the extraordinary novelty. The Gorilla would 
not make a greater stir in London streets than we appeared 
to create at Atada. 

The oxen shortly arrived ; one was immediately killed, 
and the flesh divided into numerous smaU. portions arranged 
upon the hide. 

Blonde hair and white people immediately lost their 
attractions, and the crowd turned their attention to beef — 
we gave them to understand that we required flour, beans, 
and sweet potatoes in exchange. 

The market soon went briskly, and whole rows of girls 
and women arrived, bringing baskets filled with the desired 
provisions. The women were neatly dressed in short 
petticoats with a double skirt — ^many exposed the bosom, 
while others wore a piece of bark cloth arranged as a plaid 
across the chest and shoulders. This cloth is the produce 
of a species of fig-tree, the bark of which is stripped off 



Chap. L] COMPARATIFB CiriLIZATION OF UNTOBOS. 45 

in large pieces and then soaked in water and beaten with 
a mallet : in appearance it much resembles corduroy, and 
is the colour of tanned leather; the finer qualities are 
pecrdiarly soft to the touch, as though of woven cotton. 
Every garden is full of this species of tree, as their cultiva- 
tion is necessary for the supply of clothing ; when a man 
takes a wife he plants a certain number of trees, that are 
to be the tailors of the expected family. 

The market being closed, the canoe was laden with pro- 
visions, and sent across to our hungry people on the other 
side the river. 

The difference between the Unyoro people and the 
tribes we had hitherto seen was most striking. On the 
north side of the river the natives were either stark naked, 
or wore a mere apology for clothing in the shape of a skin 
slung across their shoulders : the river appeared to be the 
limit of utter savagedom, and the people of Unyoro con- 
sidered the indecency of nakedness precisely in the same 
light as among Europeans. 

The northern district of Unyoro at Karuma is called 
Chopi, the language being the same as the Madi, and dif- 
ferent to the southern and central portions of the kingdom. 
The people are distinct in their type, but they have the 
woolly hair of negroes, like all other tribes of the White 
NHe. 

By astronomical observation I determined the latitude 



46 NATIVE POTTERT. [Chap. I. 

of Atada at Karuma Falls, 2° 15'; and by Casella's ther- 
mometer, the altitude of the river level above the sea 
3,996 feet. 

After the disgusting naked tribes that we had been 
travelling amongst for more than twelve months, it was a 
delightful change to find ourselves in comparative civiliza- 
tion : this was evinced not only in the decency of clothing, 
but also in the manufactures of the country. The black- 
smiths were exceedingly clever, and used iron hammers 
instead of stone ; they drew fine wire from the thick 
copper and brass wire that they received from Zanzibar ; 
their bellows were the same as those used by the more 
savage tribes — but the greatest proof of their superior 
civilization was exhibited in their pottery. 

Nearly aU savages have some idea of earthenware ; but 
the scale of advancement of a country between savagedom 
and civilization may generally be determined by the ex- 
ample of its pottery. The Chinese, who were as civilized 
as they are at the present day at a period when the English 
were barbarians, were ever celebrated for the manufacture 
of porcelain, and the difference between savages and civi- 
lized countries is always thus exemplified; the savage 
makes earthenware, but the civilized make porcelain — thus 
the gradations from the rudest earthenware wiU mark the 
improvement in the scale of civilization. The prime 
utensil of the African savage is the gourd; the shell of 



Chap. I.] THE BOTTLE GOUBBS USED AS MODELS. 47 

¦which is the howl presented to him hy nature as the first 
idea from which he ie to model. Nature, adapting herself 
to the requirements of animals and man, appears in these 
savage countries to yield abundantly much that savage 
man can want. Gourds with exceedingly strong shells 
not only grow wild, which if divided in halves afford 
bowls, but great and quaint varieties form natural bottles 
of all sizes, from the tiny phial to the demi-john contain- 
ing five gallons. The most savage tribes content them- 
selves with the productions of nature, confining their 
manufacture to a coarse and half-baked jar for carrying 
water ; but the semi-savage, like those of Unyoro, affords 
an example of the first step towards manufacturing art, 
by the fact of copying from natwre : the utter savage 
makes use of nature — the gourd is his utensU ; and the 
more advanced natives of, Unyoro adopt it as the model 
for their pottery. They make a fine quality of jet black 
earthenware, producing excellent tobacco-pipes most 
finely worked in imitation of the small egg-shaped gourd ; 
of the same earthenware they make extremely pretty 
bowls, and also bottles copied from the varieties of the 
bottle gourds : thus, in this humble art, we see the 
first effort of the human mind in manufactures, in 
taking nature for a model; precisely as the beautiful 
Corinthian capital originated in a design from a basket 
of flowers. 



48 GREAT MEN NEVER HURRY TO PAT VISITS. [Chap I. 

A few extracts from my journal will describe tlie delay 
at Alada : — 

" Jan. 26th, 1864.— The huts are very large, about 20 
feet in diameter, made entirely of reeds and straw, and 
very lofty, looking in the interior like huge inverted 
baskets, bee-hive shaped, very different to the dog-kennels 
of the more northern tribes. We received a message 
to-day that we were not to expect Kamrasi, as ' great men 
were never in a hurry to pay visits.' None of the prin- 
cipal chiefs have yet appeared. Kidgwiga is expected 
to-day ; but people are flocking in from the country to see 
the white lady. It is very trying to the patience to wait 
'here until it pleases these almighty niggers to permit our 
people to cross the river." 

" Jan. 27th. — Time, passing fruitlessly while every day 
is valuable. The rains will, I fear, commence before my 
work is completed ; and the Asua river, if flooded, will 
cut off my return to Gondokoro. In this district there is 
a large population and extensive cultivation. There are 
many trees resembling the Vacoua of Mauritius, but the 
leaves are of a different texture, producing a species of 
flax. Every day there is a report that the headman, sent 
by Kamrasi, is on the road ; but see no signs of him." 

" Jan. ' 28th. — Eeports brought that Kamrasi has sent 
his headman with a large force, including some of Speke's 
deserters. They are to iaspect me, and report whether I 



Chap. I.] PRONOUNCBD TO BE SPSKE'S SROTffEE. 49 

am really a white man and an Englishman. If so, I he- 
lieve we are to proceed ; if not, I suppose we are to be 
exterminated. Lest there should be any mistake I have 
taken all necessary precautions ; but, having only eight 
men on this side the river, I shall be certain to lose my 
baggage in the event of a disturbance, as no one could 
transport it to the canoe." 

"Jan. 29th. — Plantains, sweet potatoes, and eggs sup- 
plied in great quantities. The natives are much amused 
at our trying the eggs in water before purchase. Plan- 
tains, three for one small bead. The headman is expected 
to-day. A polite message arrived last night from Kamrasi 
inviting us to his capital, and apologizing for being unable 
to come in person. This morning the force, sent by Kam- 
rasi, is reported to be within an hour's march of Atada. 

" In mid-day the headman arrived with a great number 
of men, accompanied by three of Speke's deserters, one of 
whom has been created a chief by Kamrasi, and presented 
-with two wives. 

" I received them standing ; and after thorough inspec- 
tion I was pronounced to be ' Speke's own brother,' and 
aU were satisfied. However, the business was not yet 
over : plenty of talk, and another delay of four days, was 
declared necessary until the king should reply to the satis- 
factory message about to be sent. Losing aU patience, I 
stormed, declaring Kamrasi to be mere dust ; while a white 

VOL. II. E 



50 THE ESCORT CROSS THE RIVER. [Chap. I. 

man was a king in comparison. I ordered all my luggage 
to be conveyed immediately to the canoe, and declared 
that I would return immediately to my own country ; that 
I did not wish to see any one so utterly devoid of manners 
as Kamrasi, and that no other white man would ever visit 
his kingdom. 

" The effect was magical ! I rose hastily to depart. 
The chiefs implored, declaring that Kamrasi would MU 
them all if I retreated : to prevent which misfortune they 
secretly instructed the canoe to be removed. I was in a 
great rage ; and about 400 natives, who were present, scat- 
tered in all quarters, thinking that there would be a serious 
quarrel. I told the chiefs that nothing should stop me, 
and that I would seize the canoe by force unless my whole 
party should be brought over from the opposite side that 
instant. This was agreed upon. One of Ibrahim's men 
exchanged and drank blood from the arm of Speke's 
•deserter, who was Kamrasi' s representative; and peace 
thus firmly established, several canoes were at once em- 
ployed, and sixty of our men were brought across the 
river before sunset. The natives had nevertheless taken 
the precaution to send all their women away from the 
village." 

" Jan. 30iA. — This morning aU. remaining men and bag- 
gage were brought across the river, and supplies were 
brought in large quantities for sale. We are to march 



Chap. I.] NEATNESS OF THE NATIVES IN PACKING. 5 1 

to-morrow direct to Kamrasi's capital; they say he will 
give me a guide to the lake. 

" The natives of this country are particularly neat in all 
they do ; they never bring anything to sell unless carefully 
packed in the neatest parcels, generally formed of the bark 
of the plantain, and sometimes of the inner portions of 
reeds stripped into snow-white stalks, which are bound 
round the parcels with the utmost care. Should the plan- 
tain cider, 'maroua,' be brought in a jar, the mouth is 
neatly covered with a friage-like mat of these clean white 
rushes split into shreds. Not even tobacco is brought for 
sale unless most carefully packed. During a journey, a 
pretty, bottle- shaped, long-necked gourd is carried with a 
store of plantain cider : the mouth of the bottle is stopped 
with a bundle of the white rush shreds, through which a 
reed is inserted that reaches to the bottom : thus the driak 
can be sucked up during the march without the necessity 
of halting ; nor is it possible to spill it by the movement 
of walking. 

" The natives prepare the sldns of goats very beautifully, 
making them as soft as chamois leather; these they 
cut into squares, and sew together as neatly as would 
be effected by a European tailor, converting them into 
mantles which are prized far more highly than bark cloth, 
on account of their durability: they manufacture their 
own needles, not by boring the eye, but by sharpening the 

e2 



52 NATIVE MANUFACTURES. [Chap. I. 

end into a fine point and turning it over, the extremity 
being hammered into a small cut va. the body of the needle 
to prevent it from catching. 

"Clothes of all kinds are in great demand here, and 
¦would be accepted to any amount in exchange for ivory. 
Beads are extremely valuable, and would purchase ivory 
in large quantities, but the country would, in a few years, 
become overstocked. Clothes being perishable articles 
would always be in demand to supply those worn out; 
but beads, being imperishable, very soon glut the market. 
Here is, as I had always anticipated, an opportunity for 
commencing legitimate trade." 

"Jan. Zlst. — Throngs of natives arrived to carry our 
luggage gratis by the king's orders. Started at 7 A.M. and 
marched ten miles and a half parallel with the Nile, south ; 
the country thickly populated, and much cultivated with 
sesam^ sweet potatoes, beans, tuUaboon, dhurra, Indian 
corn, and plantains. 

" The native porters relieved each other at every village, 
fresh men being always in readiness on the road. The 
river is here on a level with the country, having no high 
banks ; thus there is a great fall from Karuma towards the 
west. Halted in a grove of plantains near a village. The 
plantains of this country are much higher than those of 
Ceylon, and the stems are black, rising to 25 or SO feet. 
The chief of the district came to meet us, and insisted upon 



Chap. I.] MARCH PARALLEL WITH THU VICTORIA NILE. 53 

our remaining at Ms viQage to-day and to-morrow to ' eat 
and drink,' or Kamrasi would kill him; tlius we are de- 
layed when time is precious. The chief's name is ' Matta- 
Goomi.' There is now no secret about the lake. Both he 
and all the natives say that the Luta N'zig^ lake is larger 
than the Victoria N'yanza, and that both lakes are fed by 
rivers from the great mountain Bartooma. Is that moun- 
tain the M'fumbiro of Speke ? the difference of name being 
local. According to the position of the mountain pointed 
out by the chief, it bears from this spot S. 45° W. Lati- 
tude of this place by meridian altitude of Capella, 2° 5' 32" 
F. (my wife) taken seriously ill with bilious fever." 

" Feh. ^st. — F. dreadfully ill ; all the natives have turned 
out of their villages, leaving their huts and gardens at our 
disposal. This is the custom of the country should the 
king give orders that a visitor is to be conducted through 
his dominions. 

" The natives of Unyoro have a very superior implement 
to the molote used among the northern tribes ; it is an 
extremely powerful hoe, fitted upon a handle, similar to 
those used on the sugar estates in the West Indies, but the 
blade is heart-shaped : with these they cultivate the ground 
very deep for their beds of sweet potatoes. The tempera- 
ture during the day ranges from 80° to 84°, and at night it 
is cold, 56° to 58° Fahr. It is very unhealthy, owing to 
the proximity of the river." 



54 SEVERU ILLNESS OF MBS. BAKER. [Chap. I. 

" Feb. 2d. — Marched five miles. F. carried in a litter, 
very ilL I fell ill likewise. Halted." 

"Feb. 3d — F. very ill. Carried her four miles and 
halted." 

" Feb. Uh. — F. most seriously iU. Started at 7.30 a.m. 
she being carried in a litter ; hut I also fell ill upon the 
road, and having been held on my ox by two men for 
some time, I at length fell in their arms, and was laid 
under a tree for about five hours : getting better, I rode for 
two hours, course south. Mountains in view to south and 
south-east, about ten miles distant. The country, forest 
interspersed with villages : the Somerset generally parallel 
to the route. There are no tamarinds in this neighbour- 
hood, nor any other acid fruit ; thus one is sorely pressed 
in the hours of fever. One of the black women servants, 
Fadeela, is dying of fever." 

" Feb. 5th. — F. (Mrs. Baker) so ill, that even the litter is 
too much for her. Heaven help us in this country ! The 
altitude of the river level above the sea at this point is 
4,056 feet." 

" Feb. 6th.— ¥. slightly better. Started at 7 A.M. The 
country the same as usual. Halted at a village after a 
short march of three miles and a half. Here we .are 
detained for a day while a message is sent to Kamrasi. 
To-morrow, I believe, we are to arrive at the capital of the 
tyrant. He sent me a message to-day, that the houses he 



Chap. I.] MARCH TO TEE CAPITAL. 55 

had prepared for me had been destroyed by fire, and to 
beg me to wait until he should have completed others. 
The truth is, he is afraid of our large party, and he delays 
us in every manner possible, in order to receive daUy 
reports of our behaviour on the road. Latitude by ob- 
servation at this point, 1° 50' 47" K" 

"Feb. 7th. — Detained here for a day. I never saw 
natives so filthy in their dwellings as the people of TJnyorow 
Goats and fowls share the hut with the owner, which, 
being littered down with straw, is- a mere cattle-shed, 
redolent of man and beast. The natives sleep upon a 
mass of straw, upon a raised platform, this at night being 
covered with a dressed skin. Yesterday the natives brought 
coffee in small quantities to sell. They have no idea of 
using it as a drink, but simply chew it raw as a stimulant. 
It is a small and finely-shaped grain, with a good flavour. 
It is brought from the country of Utumbi, about a degree 
south of this spot." 

" Feb. 8th. — Marched eight miles due south. The river 
makes a long bend to E.N.E., and this morning's march 
formed the chord of the arc. Halted ; again delayed for 
the day, as we are not far from the capital, and a mes- 
senger must be sent to the king for instructions before we 
proceed. I never saw such abject cowardice as the re- 
doubted Kamrasi exhibits. Debono's vakeel having made 
a razzia upon his frontier has so cowed him, that he has 



56 KAMRASI SUSPECTS TREACHERY. [Chap. I. 

now left his residence, and retreated to the other side of a 
river, from which point he sends false messages to delay 
our advance as much as possible. There is a total absence 
of dignity in his behaviour ; no great man is sent to 
parley, but the king receives contradictory reports from 
the many-tongued natives that have utterly perplexed 
him. He is told by some that we are the same people 
that came with Eas-G-alla (Debono's captain), and he has 
neither the courage to repel or to receive us. Our force of 
112 armed men could eat the country in the event of a 
fight, provided that a large supply of ammunition were at 
hand. The present store is sixty rounds for each man, 
which would not be sufficient." * 

" Feb. %th. — ^After endless discussions and repeated mes- 
sages exchanged with the king, he at length sent word 
that I was to come alone. To this I objected ; and, upon 
my starting with my men, the guide refused to proceed. 
I at once turned back, and told the chief (our guide) that 
I no longer wished to see Kamrasi, who must be a mere 
fool, and I should return to my country. This created a 
great stir, and messengers were at once despatched to the 
king, who returned an answer that I might bring all my 
men, but that only five of the Turks could be allowed with 
Ibrahim. The woman Bacheeta had told the natives that 
we were separate parties. 

" A severe attack of fever prevented me from starting. 



Chap. I.] ARRIVE AT LAST AT TEE CAPITAL. 5/ 

This terrible complaint womes me sadly, as I have no 
quinine." 

" Feb. 10th. — The woman Fadeela died of fever. I am 
rather better, and the chief is already here to escort us to 
Kamrasi. After a quick march of three hours through 
immense woods, we reached the capital — a large village of 
grass huts, situated on a barren slope. We were ferried 
across a river in large canoes, capable of carrying fifty 
men, but formed of a single tree upwards of four feet 
wide. Kamrasi was reported to be in his residence on the 
opposite side ; but, upon our arrival at the south bank, we 
foimd oujselves thoroughly deceived. "We were upon a 
miserable flat, level with the river, and in the wet season 
forming a marsh at the junction with the Kafoor river 
with the Somerset. The latter river bounded the flat on 
the east, very wide and sluggish, and much overgrown 
with papyrus and lotus. The river we had just crossed 
was the Kafoor; it was perfectly dead water, and about 
eighty yards wide, including the beds of papyriis on either 
side. We were shown some filthy huts that were to form 
our camp. The spot was swarming with mosquitoes, and 
we had nothing to eat except a few fowls that I had 
brought with me. Kamrasi was on the ether side of the 
river: they had cunningly separated us from him, and 
had returned with the canoes. Thus we were prisoners 
upon the swamp. This was our welcome from the King 



58 IMPRISONED ON THE MARSH. [Chap. I. 

of Unyoro ! I now heard that Speke and Grant had been 
lodged in this same spot."- 

"Feb. lOfh. — Ibrahim was extremely nervous, as were 
also my men ; they declared that treachery was intended, 
as the boats had been withdrawn, and they proposed that 
we should swim the river and march back to our main 
party, who had been left three hours in the rear. I was 
ill with fever, also my wife, and the unwholesome air of 
the marsh aggravated the disease. Our luggage had been 
left at our last station, as this was a condition stipulated 
by Kamrasi : thus we had to sleep upon the damp ground 
of the marsh in the filthy hut, as the heavy dew at night 
necessitated shelter. With great difficulty I accompanied- 
Ibrahim and a few men to the bank of the river where we 
had landed yesterday, and, climbing upon a white ant hill 
to obtain a view over the high reeds, I scanned the village 
with a telescope. The scene was rather exciting ; crowds 
of people were rushing about in aU directions, and gather- 
ing from all quarters towards the river : the slope from the 
river to the town M'rooli was black with natives, and I 
saw about a dozen large canoes preparing to transport 
them to our side. I returned from my elevated obser- 
vatory to Ibrahim, who, on the low ground only a few 
yards distant, could not see the opposite side of the river 
owing to the high grass and reeds. "Without saying more 
I merely begged him to moimt upon the ant hill and look 



Chap. I.] EXPECTATION OF AN ATTACK. 59 

towards M'rooli. Hardly had he cast a glance at the 
scene described, than he jumped down from his stand, 
and cried, ' They are going to attack us ! ' ' Let us retreat 
to the camp and prepare for a fight ! ' ' Let us fire at 
them from here as they cross in the canoes,' cried others ; 
'the buckshot will clear them off when packed in the 
boats.' This my panic-stricken followers would have done, 
had I not been present. 

'"Pools !' I said, ' do you not see that the natives have 
no shields with them, but merely lances? — would they 
commence an attack without their shields? Kamrasi is 
coming in state to visit us.' This idea was by no means 
accepted by my people, and we reached our little camp, 
and for the sake of precaution we stationed the men in 
positions behind a hedge of thorns. Ibrahim had managed 
to bring twelve picked men instead of five as stipulated ; 
thus we were a party of twenty-four. I was of very little 
use, as the fever was so strong upon me that I lay helpless 
on the ground." 

In a short time the canoes arrived, and for about an 
hour they were employed in crossing and re-crossing, and 
landing great numbers of men, until they at length ad- 
vanced and took possession of some huts about 200 yards 
from our camp. They now hallooed out that Kamrasi 
had arrived ! and seeing some oxen with the party, I felt 
sure they had no evil intentions. I ordered my men to 



60 KAWRASI MAKES A STATE VISIT. [Chap. I. 

carry me in their arms to the king, and to accompany me 
with the presents, as I was determined to have a personal 
interview, although only fit for a hospital. 

Updn my approach, the crowd gave way, and I was 
shortly laid on a mat at the king's feet. He was a fine- 
looking man, but with a peculiar expression of coun- 
tenance, owing to his extremely prominent eyes ; he was 
about six feet high, beautifully clean, and was dressed in 
a long robe of bark cloth most gracefully folded. The 
nails of his hands and feet were carefuUy attended, and 
his complexion was about as dark a brown as that of an 
Abyssinian. He sat upon a copper stool placed upon a 
carpet of leopard skins, and he was surrounded by about 
ten of his principal chiefs. 

Our interpreter, Bacheeta, now informed him who I 
was, and what were my intentions. He said that he was 
sorry I had been so long on the road, but that he had 
been obliged to be cautious, having been deceived by 
Debono's people. I replied, that I was an Englishiiian, a 
friend of Speke and Grant— that they had described the 
reception they had met with from him, and that I had 
come to thank him, and to offer him a few presents in 
return for his kindness, and to request him to give me a 
guide to the Lake Luta N'zig4 He laughed at the name, 
and repeated it several times with his chiefs, — he then 
^aid, it was not Lida, but M-wootan N'zigd — but that it 



Chap. I.] CONVERSATION WITH THE KING. 61 

was six months' journey from M'rooli, and that in my weak 
condition I could not possibly reach it ; that I should die 
upon the road, and that the king of my country would 
perhaps imagine that I had been murdered, and might 
invade his territory. I replied, that I was weak with the 
toil of years in the hot countries, of Africa, but that I was 
in search of the great lake, and should not return until I 
had succeeded ; that I had no king, but a powerful Queen 
• who watched over all her subjects, and that no Englishman 
•could be murdered with impunity; therefore he should 
send me to the lake without delay, and there would be the 
lesser chance of my dying in his country. 

I explained that the river Nile flowed for a distance of 
two years' journey through wonderful coimtries, and reached 
the sea, from which many valuable articles would be sent 
to him in exchange for ivory, could I only discover the 
great lake. As a proof of this, I had brought him a few 
curiosities that I trusted he would accept, and I regretted 
that the impossibility of procuring porters had neces- 
sitated the abandonment of others that had been intended 
for him. 

I ordered the men to unpack the Persian carpet, which 
was spread upon the ground before him. I then gave him 
an Abbia (large white Cashmere mantle), a red sUk netted 
sash, a pair of scarlet Turkish shoes, several pairs of socks, 
a double-barrelled gun and ammunition, and a great heap 



62 HIS RECEPTION OF MY PRESENTS. [Chap. I. 

of first-class beads made up into gorgeous necklaces and 
girdles. He took very little notice of the presents, but 
requested that the gun might he fired off.. This was done, 
to the utter confusion of the crowd, who rushed away in 
such haste, that they tumbled over each other like so many 
rabbits ; this delighted the king, who, although himself 
startled, now roared with laughter. He told me that I 
must be hungry and thirsty, therefore he hoped I would 
accept something to eat and drink: accordingly he pre- 
sented me with seventeen cows, twenty pots of sour plan- 
tain cider, and many loads of unripe plaintains. I inquired 
whether Speke had left a medicine-chest with him. He 
replied that it was a very feverish country, and that he 
and his people had used all the medicine. Thus my last 
hope of quinine was cut off. I had always trusted to 
obtain a supply from the king, as Speke had told me that 
he had left a bottle with him. It was quite impossible to 
obtain any information from him, and I was carried back 
to my hut, where I found Mrs. Baker lying down with 
fever, and neither could render assistance to the other. 

On the following morning the king again appeared. I 
was better, and I had a long interview. He did not appear 
to heed my questions, but he at once requested that I 
would ally myself with him, and attack his enemy, Eionga. 
I told him that I could not embroil myself in such quarrels, 
but that I had only one object, which ^vas the lake. I 



Chap. I.] EXCHANGE BLOOD AND BUCOMH FRIENDS. 63 

requested that he would give Ibrahim a large quantity of 
ivory, and that on his return from Gondokoro he would 
bring him most valuable articles in exchange. He said 
that he was not sure whether "my belly was black or 
white," — by this he intended to express "evil or good 
intentions ; " but that if it were white I should of course 
have no objection to exchange blood with him, as a proof 
of friendship and sincerity. This was rather too strong 
a dose ! I replied that it would be impossible, as in my 
country the shedding of blood was considered a proof of 
hostility ; therefore he must accept Ibrahim as my sub- 
stitute. Accordingly the arms were bared and pricked ; as 
the blood flowed, it was licked by either party, and an 
alliance was concluded. Ibrahim agreed to act with him 
against aU. his enemies. It was arranged that Ibrahim 
now belonged to Kamrasi, and that henceforth our parties 
should be entirely separate. 

It rained in torrents, and our hut became so damp from 
the absorption of the marsh soil, that my feet sank in the 
muddy floor. I had fever daily at about 3 p.m. and lay 
perfectly helpless for five or six hours, untU the attack 
passed off; this reduced me to extreme weakness. My 
wife suffered quite as acutely. It was a position of abject 
misery, which wUl be better explained by a few rough 
extracts from my journal : — 

"Feb. l&th. — All my porters have deserted, having heard 



64 AVARICE OF THE KINO. [Chap. I. 

that the lake is so far distant ; I have not one man left to 
carry my luggage. Should we not be able to cross the 
Asua river before the flood, we shall be na'iled for another 
year to this abominable country, ill with fever, and without 
medicine, clothes, or supplies. 

" Feb. 17th. — Fever last night ; rain, as usual, with mud 
accompaniment. One of Kamrasi's headmen, whose tongue 
I have loosened by presents, tells me that he has been to 
the lake in ten days to purchase salt, and that a man 
loaded with salt can retiirn in fifteen days. God knows 
the truth ! and I am pressed for time, while Kamrasi delays 
me in the most annoying manner. 

" Kamrasi came to-day ; as usual, he wanted all that 
I had, and insisted upon a present of my sword, watch, and 
compass, all of which I positively refused. I told him that 
he had deceived me by saying that the lake was so distant 
as six months' journey, as I knew that it was only ten 
days. He rudely answered, ' Go, if you like ; but don't 
blame me if you can't get back : it is twenty days' march ; 
you may believe it or not, as you choose.' To my question 
as to the means of procuring porters, he gave no reply, 
except by asking for my sword, and for my beautiful little 
Fletcher rifle. 

" I retired to my hut in disgust. This afternoon a mes- 
senger arrived from the king with twenty-four small pieces 
of straw, cut into lengths of about four inches. These he 



Chap. I.] PERMITTIED TO LEAVE OUR FEFEB-SED. 65 

laid carefully in a row, and explained that Speke had given 
that number of presents, whereas I had only given ten, the 
latter figure heing carefully exemplified by ten pieces of 
straw ; he wished to know ' why I did not give him the 
same number as he had received from Speke?' This 
miserable, grasping, lying coward is nevertheless a king, 
and the success of my expedition depends upon him." 

" Fd). 20th. — Cloudy, as usual ; neither sun, moon, nor 
stars will show themselves. Fortunately, milk can be pro- 
cured here. I live upon butter-milk. Kamrasi came, and 
gave twenty elephants' tusks as a present to Ibrahim. 
There is a report that Debono's people, under the com- 
mand of Eas-Galla, are once more at Eionga's ; this has 
frightened him awfully." 

"Feb. 21st. — This morning Kamrasi was civil enough to 
allow us to quit the marsh, the mosquito-nest and fever- 
bed where we had been in durance, and we crossed to the 
other side of the Kafoor river, and quartered in M'rooli. I 
went to see him, and, after a long consultation, he promised 
to send me to the lake to-morrow. I immediately took off 
my sword and belt, and presented them to him, explaining 
that, as I was now convinced of his friendship, I had a 
pleasure in offering my sword as a proof of my amicable 
feeling, as I thus placed the weapon of self-defence in his 
hand, and I should trust to his protection. As a proof of 
the temper of the blade, I offered to cut through the 

VOL, II. F 



66 IBRAHIM ANB PARTI RETURN NORTH. [Chap. I. 

strongest shield he could produce. This delighted him 
amazingly. I now trust to he able to reach the junction 
of the Somerset with the M-wootan N'zig4 at Magungo, 
and from thence to overtake Ibrahim at Shooa, and to 
hurry on to Gondokoro, where a boat will be waiting for 
me from Khartoum. 

" Ibrahim and his men marched this morning, on their 
return to Karuma, leaving me here with my little party of 
thirteen men. 

" Should I succeed in. discovering the lake I shall thank 
God most sincerely. The toil, anxiety, the biting annoy- 
ances I have daily been obliged to put up with in my 
association with the Turks, added to our now constant 
ill-health, are enough to break down the constitution of an 
elephant. Every day I must give ! — ^to the Turks, give ! — 
to the natives, give ! If I lend anything to the Turks, it is 
an. insult should I ask for its return. One hasty word 
might have upset my boat ; and now, for twelve months, 
I have had to talk, to explaiu, to manage, and to lead the 
brutes in this direction, like a coachman driving jibbing 
horses. Hosts of presents to Ibrahim, combined with a 
vivid description of the advantages that he would secure 
by opening a trade with Kamrasi, at length led him to 
this country, which I could not have reached without his 
aid, as it would have been impossible for me to have pro- 
cured porters without cattle. The porters I have always 



Chap. I.] SULKINESS OF BACHEETA. 67 

received from liini as far as Karuma for a payment of six 
copper rings per head for every journey. I have now 
arranged that he shall leave for me thirty head of cattle at 
Shooa ; thus, should he have started for Gondokoro hefore 
my arrival at Shooa, I shall he able to procure porters, and 
arrive in time for the expected boat. 

"Up to this day astronomical observations have been 
impossible, a thick coat of slate colour obscuring the 
heavens. To-night I obtaiaed a good observation of Cano- 
pus, giving latitude 1° 38' K By CaseUa's thermometer I 
made the altitude of the Somerset at M'rooH 4,061 feet 
above the sea, showing a fall of 65 feet between this point 
and below the falls at Karuma in a distance of 37 miles 
of latitude. 

" Just as Ibrahim was leaviag this morning I was 
obliged to secure the slave Bacheeta as interpreter, at the 
price of three double-barrelled guns to purchase her free- 
dom. I explained to her that she was now free, and that 
I wished her to act as interpreter during my stay ia 
Unyoro; and that I would then leave her in her own 
country, Chopi, on my return from the lake. Tar from 
being pleased at the change, she regretted the loss of the 
Turks, and became excessively sulky, although my wife 
decked her out with beads, and gave her a new petticoat 
to put her in a good humour." 

"Feb. 22d. — Kamrasi promised to send me porters, and 
i'2 



68 ATTEMPT TO BARTBB FOB SPEKIPS BIFLE. [Chap. I. 

that we should start for the lake to-day, but there is no 
sign of preparation ; thus am I delayed when every day is 
so precious. Added to this trouble, the woman that I 
have as an interpreter will not speak, being the most sulky 
individual I ever encountered. In the evening Kamrasi 
sent to say he would give a guide and porters to-morrow 
morning. It is impossible to depend upon him." 

After some delay we were at length honoured by a visit 
from Kamrasi, accompanied by a number of his people, 
and he promised that we should start on the following day. 
He pointed out a chief and a guide who were to have us 
in their charge, and who were to see that we obtained all 
that we should require. He concluded, as usual, by asking 
for my watch and for a number of beads ; the latter I gave 
him, together with a quantity of ammunition for his guns. 
He showed me a beautiful double-barrelled rifle by " BUs- 
sett," that Speke had given him. I wished to secure this 
to give to Speke on my return to England, as he had told 
me, when at Gondokoro, how he had been obliged to part 
with that and many other articles sorely against his wilL 
I therefore offered to give him three common double- 
barrelled guns in exchange for the rifle. This he declined, 
as he was quite aware of the difference in quality. He 
then produced a large silver chronometer that he had 
received from Speke. "It was deadi' he said, "and he 
wished me to repair it." This I declared to be impossible. 



Chap. I.] EAPACITT OF THE CHIEFS. 69 

He then confessed to having explained its construction, 
and the cause of the " ticking," to his people, by the aid 
of a needle, and that it had never ticked siace that occa- 
sion. I regretted to see such " pearls cast before swiae," 
as the rifle and chronometer in the hands of KamrasL 
Thus he had plundered Speke and Grant of all they 
possessed before he would allow them to proceed. 

It is the rapacity of the chiefs of the various tribes that 
renders African exploration so difficult. Each tribe wishes 
to monopolize your entire stock of valuables, without 
which the traveller would be utterly helpless. The diffi- 
culty of procuring porters limits the amount of baggage : 
thus a given supply must carry you through a certain 
period of time ; if your supply should fail, the expedition 
terminates with your power of giving. It is thus extremely 
difficult to arrange the expenditure so as to satisfy aU 
parties, and stiQ to retain a sufficient balance. Beiag 
utterly cut off from all communication with the world, 
there is no possibility of receiving assistance. The traveller 
depends entirely upon himself, under Providence, and must 
adapt himself and his means to circumstances. 



CHAPTEE. II. 

TEE START FOR TEE LAKE. 

rrHE day of starting at length arrived ; the chief and 
guide appeared, and we were led to the Kafoor river, 
where canoes were in readiness to transport ns to the 
south side. This was to our old quarters on the marsh. 
The direct course to the lake was west, and I fdly 
expected some deception, as it was impossible to trust 
Kamrasi. I complained to the guide, and insisted upon 
his pointing out the direction of the lake, which he did, ia 
its real position, west ; but he explained that we must ' 
follow the south bank of the Kafoor river for some days, 
as there was an impassable morass that precluded a direct 
course. This did not appear satisfactory, and the whole 
affair looked suspicious, as we had formerly been deceived 
by being led across the river in the same spot, and not 
allowed to return. "We were now led along the banks of 
the Kafoor for about a mile, until we arrived at a cluster 
of huts ; here we were to wait for Kamrasi, who had 
promised to take leave of us. The sun was overpowering, 



Chap. II.] BESPICABLH CONDUCT OF THE KING. J\ 

and we dismounted from our oxen, and took shelter in a 
blacksmith's shed. In about an hour Kamrasi arrived, 
attended by a considerable number of men, and took his 
seat in our shed. I felt convinced that his visit was 
simply intended to peel the last skin from the onion. I 
had already given him nearly all that I had, but he hoped 
to extract the whole before I should depart. 

He almost immediately commenced the conversation by 
asking for a pretty yellow muslin Turkish handkerchief 
fringed with silver drops that Mrs. Baker wore upon her 
head : one of these had already been given to him, and I 
explaiaed that this was the last remaining, and that she 

required it He " must " have it It was given. 

He then demanded other handkerchiefs. We had literally 
nothing but a few most ragged towels ; he would accept 
no excuse, and insisted upon a portmanteau being un- 
packed, that he might satisfy himself by actual inspection. 
The luggage, all ready for the journey, had to be un- 
strapped and examined, and the rags were displayed in 
succession; but so wretched and uninviting was the 
exhibition of the family linen, that he simply returned 
them, and said " they did not suit him." Beads he must 
have, or I was "his enemy." A selection of the best opal 
beads was imraediately given him. I rose from the stone 
upon which I was sitting, and declared that we must start 
immediately. " Don't be in a hurry," he replied ; " you 



72 PERTINACITY OF KAMBASI. [Chap. II. 

have plenty of time ; but you have not given me that watch 
you promised me." .... This was my only watch that he 
had begged for, and had been refused every day during my 
stay at M'rooK. So pertinacious a beggar I had never 
seen. I explained to him that, without the watch, my 
journey would be useless, but that I would give him all 
that I had except the watch when the exploration should 
be completed, as I should require nothing on my direct 
return to Gondokoro. At the same time, I repeated to 
him the arrangement for the journey that he had promised, 
begging him not to deceive me, as my wife and I should 
both die if we were compelled to remain another year in 
this country by losing the annual boats in Gondokoro. 
The understanding was this : he was to give me porters to 
the lake, where I was to be furnished with canoes to take 
me to Magungo, which was situated at the junction of the 
Somerset. From Magungo he told me that I should see 
the Nile issuiug from the lake close to the spot where the 
Somerset entered, and that the canoes should take me down 
the river, and porters should carry my effects from the 
nearest point to Shooa, and deliver me at my old station 
without delay. Should he be faithful to this engagement, 
I trusted to procure porters from Shooa, and to reach Gon- 
dokoro in time for the annual boats. I had arranged that 
a boat should be sent from Khartoum to await me at 
Gondokoro early in this year, 1864 ; but I felt sure that 



Chap. II.] KAMBASI'S INFAMOUS PROPOSAL. 73 

should I be long delayed, the boat would return without 
me, as the people would be afraid to remain alone at 
Gondokoro after the other boats had quitted. 

In our present weak state another year of Central 
Africa without quinine appeared to warrant death ; it was 
a race against time, aU was untrodden ground before us, 
and the distance quite uncertain. I trembled for my wife, 
and weighed the risk of another year in this horrible 
country should we lose the boats. With the self-sacri- 
ficiag devotion that she had shown in every trial, she 
implored me not to think of any risks on her account, but 
to push forward and discover the lake — that she had 
determined not to return until she had herself reached 
the " M'wootan Wzigk" 

I now requested Kamrasi to allow us to take leave, as 
we had not an hour to lose. In the coolest manner he 
replied, " I will send you to the lake and to Shooa, as I 
have promised ; but, you must leave yow vnfe ivith me /" 

At that moment we were surrounded by a great number 
of natives, and my suspicions of treachery at having been 
led across the Kafoor river appeared confirmed by this 
insolent demand. If this were to be the end of the expe- 
dition I resolved that it should also be the end of Kam- 
rasi, and, drawing my revolver quietly, I held it within 
two feet of his chest, and lookiag at him with undisguised 
contempt, I told him that if I touched the trigger, not aU 



74 RESENTMENT OF THE KINO'S INSOLENCE. [Chap. II. 

his men could save him : and that if he dared to repeat 
the insult I would shoot him on the spot. At the same 
time I explained to him that in my country such insolence 
would entail bloodshed, and that I looked . upon him as 
an ignorant ox who knew no better, and that this excuse 
alone could save him. My wife, naturally indignant, had 
risen from her seat, and, maddened with the excitement of 
the moment, she made him a little speech in Arabic (not a 
word of which he understood), with a countenance almost 
as amiable as the head of Medusa. Altogether the mise 
en sdne utterly astonished him; the woman Bacheeta, 
although savage, had appropriated the insult to her mis- 
tress, and she also fearlessly let fly at Kamrasi, translating 
as nearly as she could the complimentary address that 
" Medusa " had just delivered. 

Whether this little coup de theatre had so impressed 
Kamrasi with British female independence that he wished 
to be off his bargain, I cannot say, but with an air of 
complete astonishment, he said, " Don't be angry ! I had 
no iatention of offending you by asking for your wife ; 
I win. give you a wife, if you want one, and I thought 
you might have no objection to give me yours; it is my 
custom to give my visitors pretty wives, and I thought you 
might exchange. Don't make a fuss about it ; if you don't 
like it, there's an end of it ; I will never mention it again." 
This very practical apology I received very sternly, and 



liiiliiHili 




Chap. II.] EXPECTATION OF A FIGHT. 75 

merely insisted upon starting. He seemed rather con- 
fused at having committed himself, and to make amends 
he called his people and ordered them to carry our loads. 
His men ordered a number of women, who had assembled 
out of curiosity, to shoulder the luggage and carry it to the 
next village, where they would be relieved. I assisted my 
wife upon her ox, and with a very cold adieu to Kamrasi, 
I turned my back most gladly on M'rooli. 

The country was a vast flat of grass land interspersed 
with small villages and patches of sweet potatoes ; these 
were very inferior, owing to the want of drainage. Por 
about two miles we continued on the banks of the Kafoor 
river ; the women who carried the luggage were straggling 
in disorder, and my few men were much scattered in their 
endeavours to collect them. "We approached a consider- 
able village ; but just as we were nearing it, out rushed 
about six hundred men with lances and shields, screaming 
and y«lling like so many demons. For the moment, I 
thought it was an attack, but almost immediately I noticed 
that women and children were mingled with the men. 
My men had not taken so cool a view of the excited 
throng that was now approaching us at full speed, bran- 
dishing their spears, and engaging with each other in 
mock combat. "There's a fight '.—there's a fight!" my 
men exclaimed ; " we are attacked ! fire at them, Hawaga." 
However, in a few seconds I persuaded them that it was 



76 KAMRASrS SATANIC ESCORT. [Chap. II. 

a mere parade, and that there was no danger. With a 
rush, like a cloud of locusts, the natiyes closed around us, 
dancing, gesticulating, and yeUiag before my ox, feigniag 
to attack us with spears and shields, then engaging in 
sham fights with each other, and behaving like so many 
madmen. A very taU chief accompanied them ; and one of 
their men was suddenly knocked down, and attacked by the 
crowd with sticks and lances, and lay on the ground covered 
with blood : what his offence had been I did not hear. The 
entire crowd were most grotesquely got up, being dressed 
in either leopard or white monkey skius, with cows' tails 
strapped on behind, and antelopes' horns fitted upon their 
heads, while their chins were ornamented with false beards, 
made of the bushy ends of cows' tails sewed together. 
Altogether, I never saw a more unearthly set of creatures ; 
they were perfect illustrations of my childish ideas of 
devils — horns, tails, and all, excepting the hoofs; they 
were our escort ! furnished by Kamrasi to accompany us to 
the lake. Fortunately for all parties the Turks were not 
with us on that occasion, or the satanic escort would 
certainly have been received with a volley when they 
so rashly advanced to compliment us by their absurd 
performances. 

We marched till 7 P-M. over fiat, uninteresting country, 
and then halted at a miserable village which the people 
had deserted, as they expected our arrival. The following 



Chap. II.] THB ROUT AT A GUN-SHOT. T] 

mormng I found mucli dif6.ciilty in getting our escort 
together, as they had been foraging throughout the neigh- 
bourhood; these "devil's own'' were a portion of Kam- 
rasi's troops, who considered themselves entitled to plunder 
ad lihitwn throughout the march; however, after some 
delay, they collected, and their tall chief approached me, 
and begged that a gun might be fired as a curiosity. The 
escort had crowded around us, and as the boy Saat was 
close to me, I ordered him to fire his gun. This was 
Saat's greatest delight, and bang went one barrel un- 
expectedly, close to the taU chief's ear. The effect was 
charming. The tall chief, thinking himself injured, 
clasped his head with both hands, and bolted through 
the crowd, which, struck with a sudden panic, rushed away 
in all directions, the " devil's own " tumbling over each 
other, and utterly scattered by the second barrel which 
Saat exultingly fired in derision as Kamrasi's warlike 
regiment dissolved before a sound. I felt quite sure, that 
in the event of a fight, one scream from the "Baby," 
with its charge of forty small bullets, would win the 
battle, if well delivered into a crowd of Kamrasi's 
troops. 

That afternoon, after a march through a most beautiful 
forest of large mimosas in full blossom, we arrived at 
the morass that had necessitated this great detour from 
our direct course to the lake. It was nearly three- 



78 J. mSAGEEBABLE ESCORT. [Chap. II. 

quarters of a mile broad, and so deep, that in many places 
the oxen were obliged to swim; both Mrs, Baker and I 
were carried across on our angareps by twelve men with 
the greatest difficulty ; the guide, who waded before us to 
show the way, suddenly disappeared in a deep hole, and 
his bundle that he had carried on his head, being of 
light substance, was seen floating like a buoy upon the 
surface ; after a thorough sousing, the guide reappeared, 
and scrambled out, and we made a circuit, the men 
toiling frequently up to their necks through mud and 
water. On arrival at the opposite side we continued 
through the same beautiful forest, and slept that night 
at a deserted village, M'Baz^. I obtained two observa- 
tions ; one of Capella, giving lat. 1° 24' 47" N"., and of 
Canopus 1° 23' 29". 

The next day we were much annoyed by our native 
escort; instead of attending to us, they employed their 
time in capering and dancing about, screaming and gesti- 
culating, and suddenly rushing off in advance whenever 
we approached a village, which they plundered before we 
could arrive. In this manner every place was stripped ; 
nor could we procure anything to eat unless by purchasing 
it for beads from the native escort. We slept at Karch^ 
lat. 1° 19' 31" N. 

We were both iU, but were obliged to ride through the 
hottest hours of the sun, as our followers were never ready 



Chap. II.] PASSAGE OF THE KAFOOR. 79 

to start at an early hour in the morning. The native 
escort were perfectly independent, and so utterly wild 
and savage in their manner, that they appeared more 
dangerous than the general inhabitants of the country. 
My wife was extremely anxious, since the occasion of 
Kamrasi's " proposal," as she was suspicious that so large 
an escort as three hundred men had been given for some 
treacherous purpose, and that I should perhaps be waylaid 
to enable them to steal her for the king. I had not the 
slightest fear of such an occurrence, as sentries were always 
on guard during the night, and I was well prepared during 
the day. 

On the following morning we had the usual difficulty 
in collecting porters, those of the preceding day having 
absconded, and others were recruited from distant villages 
by the native escort, who enjoyed the excuse of hunting 
for porters, as it gave them an opportunity of foraging 
throughout the neighbourhood. During this time we had 
to wait until the sun was high ; we thus lost the cool 
hours of morning, and it increased our fatigue. Having at 
length started, we arrived in the afternoon at the Kafoor 
river, at a bend from the south where it was necessary to 
cross over in our westerly course. The stream was in the 
centre of a marsh, and although deep, it was so covered 
with thickly-matted water-grass and other aquatic plants, 
that a natural floating bridge was established by a cai^et of 



80 MBS. BAKER BECEIFES A SUN-STROKE. [Chap. II. 

weeds about two feet thick : upon this waving and unsteady- 
surface the men ran quickly across, sinking merely to the 
ankles, although beneath the tough vegetation there was 
deep water. It was equally impossible to ride or to be 
carried over this treacherous surface ; thus I led the way, 
and begged Mrs. Baker to follow me on foot as quickly 
as possible, precisely in my track. The river was about 
eighty yards wide, and I had scarcely completed a fourth 
of the distance and looked back to see if my wife followed 
close to me, when I was horrified to see her standing in 
one spot, and sinkiug gradually through the weeds, while 
her face was distorted and perfectly purple. Almost as 
soon as I perceived her, she fell, as though shot dead. 
In an instant I was by her side ; and with the assistance 
of eight or ten of my men, who were fortunately close 
to me, I dragged her like a corpse through the yielding 
vegetation, and up to our waists we scrambled across to 
the other side, just keeping her head above the water: 
to have carried her would have been impossible, as we 
should all have sunk together through the weeds. I laid 
her imder a tree, and bathed her head and face with water, 
as for the moment I thought she had fainted ; but she lay 
perfectly insensible, as though dead, with teeth and hands 
firmly clenched, and her eyes open, but fixed. It was a 
coup de soleil. 

Many of the porters had gone on ahead with the 



Chap; II.] DISMISSAL OF THE BRUTAL ESCORT. 81 

baggage; and I started off a man in haste to recall an 
angarep upon which to carry her, and also for a bag with 
a change of clothes, as we had dragged her through the 
river. It was in vain that I rubbed her heart, and the 
black women rubbed her feet, to endeavour to restore 
animation. At length the litter came, and after changing 
her clothes, she was carried mournfully forward as a 
corpse. Constantly we had to halt and support her head, 
as a painful rattling in the throat betokened suffocation. 
At length we reached a village, and halted for the night. 

I laid her carefully in a miserable hut, and watched 
beside her. I opened her clenched teeth with a small 
wooden wedge, and inserted a wet rag, upon which I 
dropped water to moisten her tongue, which was dry as 
fur. The unfeeling brutes that composed the native 
escort were yelling and dancing as though all were well ; 
and I ordered their chief at once to return with them 
to Kamrasi, as I would travel with them no longer. At 
first they refused to return ; until at length I vowed that I 
would fire into them should they accompany us on the 
following morning. Day broke, and it was a relief to 
have got rid of the brutal escort. They had departed, and 
I had now my own men, and the guides supplied by 
Kamrasi. 

There was nothing to eat La this spot. My wife had 
never stirred since she fell by the coup de soleil, and 

VOL. II. G 



82 MISERY AND DISTRESS. [Chap. II. 

merely respired about five times in a minute. It was 
impossible to remain ; the people would have starved. She 
was laid gently upon her litter, and we started forward on 
our funeral course. I was iU and broken-hearted, and I 
followed by her side through the long day's march over 
wild park-lands and streams, with thick forest and deep 
marshy bottoms ; over undulating hills, and through valleys 
of tall papyrus rushes, which, as we brushed through them 
on our melancholy way, waved over the litter like the 
black plumes of a hearse. We halted at a village, and 
again the night was passed in watching. I was wet, and 
coated with mud from the swampy marsh, and shivered 
with ague ; but the cold within was greater than all. No 
change had taken place; she had never moved. I had 
plenty of fat, and I made four balls of about half a pound, 
each of which would burn for three hours. A piece of a 
broken water-jar formed a lamp, several pieces of rag 
serving for wicks. So in solitude the still calm night 
passed away as I sat by her side and watched. In the 
drawn and distorted features that lay before me I could 
hardly trace the same face that for years had been my 
comfort through aU the difficulties and dangers of my 
path. Was she to die ? Was so terrible a sacrifice to be 
the result of my selfish exile ? 

Again the night passed away. Once more the march. 
Though weak and ill, and for two nights without a 



Chap. II.] RETURN TO CONSCIOUSNESS. 83 

moment's sleep, I felt no fatigue, but mechanically 
followed by the side of the litter as though in a dream. 
The same wild country diversified with marsh and forest. 
Again we halted. The night came, and I sat by her side 
in a miserable hut, with the feeble lamp flickering while 
she lay as in death. She had never moved a muscle since 
she fell. My people slept. I was alone, and no sound 
broke the stillness of the night. The ears ached at the 
utter silence, till the sudden wild cry of a hyena made me 
shudder as the horrible thought rushed through my brain, 
that, should she be buried in this lonely spot, the hyena 
would . . . disturb her rest. 

The morning was not far distant; it was past four 
o'clock. I had passed the night in replacing wet cloths 
upon her head and moistening her lips, as she lay appa- 
rently lifeless on her litter. I could do nothing more ; in 
solitude and abject misery in that dark hour, in a country 
of savage heathens, thousand of miles away from a 
Christian land, I beseeched an aid above all human, 
trusting alone to Him. 

The morning broke ; my lamp had just burnt out, and, 
cramped with the night's watching, I rose from my low 
seat, and seeing that she lay in the same unaltered state, 
I went to the door of the hut to breathe one gasp of the 
fresh morning air. I was watching the first red streak 
that heralded the rising sun, when I was startled by 

g2 



84 AFFLICTED WITH BBAIN FEKEB. [Chap. II. 

the words, "Thank God," faintly uttered behind me. 
Suddenly she had awoke from her torpor, and with a heart 
overflowing I went to her bedside. Her eyes were full of 
madness ! She spoke ; but the brain was gone ! 

I will not inflict a description of the terrible trial of 
seven days of brain fever, with its attendant horrors. The 
rain poured in torrents, and day after day we were forced 
to travel, for want of provisions, not being able to remain 
in one position. Every now and then we shot a few 
guinea-fowl, but rarely ; there was no game, although the 
country was most favourable. In the forests we procured 
wild honey, but the deserted villages contained no sup- 
plies, as we were on the frontier of Uganda, and M'tes^'s 
people had plundered the district. For seven nights I had 
not slept, and although as weak as a reed, I had marched 
by the side of her litter. Nature could resist no longer. 
We reached a village one evening; she had been ia 
violent convulsions successively — it was all but over. I 
laid her down on her litter within a hut ; covered her with 
a Scotch plaid ; and I fell upon my mat insensible, worn 
out with sorrow and fatigue. My men put a new handle 
to the pickaxe that evening, and sought for a dry spot to 
dig her grave ! 



CHAPTEE III. 

BECOVEBIJD. 

rPHE sun had risen when I woke. I had slept, and 
horrified as the idea flashed upon me that she must be 
dead, and that I had not been with her, I started up. She 
lay upon her bed, pale as marble, and with that calm 
serenity that the features assume when the cares of life no 
longer act upon the mind, and the body rests in death. 
The dreadful thought bowed me down ; but as I gazed 
upon her in fear, her chest gently heaved, not with the 
convulsive throbs of fever, but naturally. She was 
asleep ; and when at a sudden noise she opened her eyes, 
they were calm and clear. She was saved ! When not a 
ray of hope remained, God alone knows what helped us. 
The gratitude of that moment I will not attempt to 
describe. 

Fortunately there were many fowls in this village ; we 
found several nests of fresh eggs in the straw which 
littered the hut ; these were most acceptable after our hard 
fare, and produced a good supply of soup. 



86 THE SUOABrCANE INDIGENOUS. [Chap. III. 

Having rested for two days, we again moved forward, 
Mrs. Baker being carried on a litter. We now continued 
on elevated ground, on the north side of a vaUey running 
from west to east, about sixteen miles broad, and exceed- 
ingly swampy. The rocks composing the ridge upon 
which we travelled due west were all gneiss and quartz, 
with occasional breaks, forming narrow valleys, all of 
which were swamps choked with immense papyrus 
rushes, that made the march very fatiguing. In one of 
these muddy bottoms one of my riding oxen that was iU, 
stuck fast, and we were obliged to abandon it, intending 
to send a number of natives to drag it out with ropes. 
On arrival at a village, our guide started about fifty men 
for this purpose, while we continued our journey. 

That evening we reached a village belonging to a head- 
man, and very superior to most that we had passed on the 
route from M'rooli : large sugar-canes of the blue variety 
were growing in the fields, and I had seen coffee growing 
wild in the forest in the vicinity. I was sitting at the 
door of the hut about two hours after sunset, smoking a 
pipe of excellent tobacco, when I suddenly heard a great 
singing in chorus advancing rapidly from a distance 
towards the entrance of the courtyard. At first I 
imagined that the natives intended dancing, which was an 
infliction that I wished to avoid, as I was tired and 
feverish ; but in a few minutes the boy Saat introduced a 



Chap. III.] UNTORO PEOPLE CLEAN FEEDERS. 8/ 

headman, who told me that the riding ox had died in the 
swamp where he had stuck fast in the morning, and that 
the natives had brought his body to me. " What ! " I re- 
plied, " brought his body, the entire ox, to me ? " " The 
entire ox as he died is delivered at your door," answered 
the headman ; " I could not allow any of your property to 
be lost upon the road. Had the body of the ox not been 
delivered to you, we might have been suspected of having 
stolen it." I went to the entrance of the courtyard, and 
amidst a crowd of natives I found the entire ox exactly as 
he had died. They had carried him about eight miles on 
a litter, which they had constructed of two immensely 
long posts with cross-pieces of bamboo, upon which they 
had laid the body. They would not eat the flesh, and 
seemed quite " disgusted at the idea, as they replied that 
" it had died." 

It is a curious distinction of the Unyoro people, that 
they are peculiarly clean feeders, and will not touch either 
the flesh of animals that have died, neither of those that 
are sick ; nor will they eat the crocodile. They asked for 
no remuneration for bringing their heavy load so great a 
distance ; and they departed in good humour as a matter 
of course. 

Never were such contradictory people as these crea- 
tures ; they had troubled us dreadfully during the journey, 
as they would suddenly exclaim against the weight of 



88 CLOSE TO THB LAKE. [Chap. III. 

their loads, and throw them down, and bolt into the high 
grass ; yet now they had of their own free will delivered 
to me a whole dead ox from a distance of eight miles, pre- 
cisely as though it had been an object of the greatest 
value. 

The name of this village was Parkani. For several days 
past our guides had told us that we were very near to the 
lake, and we were now assured that we should reach it on 
the morrow. I had noticed a lofty range of mountains at an 
immense distance west, and I had imagined that the lake 
lay on the other side of this chain ; but I was now in- 
formed that those mountains formed the western frontier 
of the M'-wootan N'zig^ and that the lake was actually 
within a march of Parkani. I could not believe it pos- 
sible that we were so near the object of our search. The 
guide Eabonga now appeared, and declared that if we 
started early on the following morning we should be able 
to wash in the lake by noon ! 

That night I hardly slept. For years I had striven to 
reach the "sources of the Nile." In my nightly dreams 
during that arduous voyage I had always failed, but after 
so much hard work and perseverance the cup was at my 
very lips, and I was to drink at the mysterious fountain 
before another sun should set — at that great reservoir of 
Nature that ever since. creation had baffled all discovery. 
I had hoped, and prayed, and striven through all kinds 



Chap. III.] DISCOVERY OF THE ALBERT N'YANZA. 89 

of difficulties, in sickness, starvation, and fatigue, to reach 
that hidden source ; and when it had appeared impossible, 
we had both determined to die upon the road rather 
than return defeated. Was it possible that it was so 
near, and that to-morrow we could say, "the work is 
accomplished 1 " 

The lith March. — The sun had not risen when I was 
spurring my ox after the guide, who, having been promised 
a double handful of beads on arrival at the lake, had 
caught the enthusiasm of the moment. The day broke 
beautifully clear, and having crossed a deep valley between 
the hiUs, we toiled up the opposite slope. I hurried to the 
summit. The glory of our prize burst suddenly upon me ! 
There, like a sea of quicksilver, lay far beneath the grand 
expanse of water, — a boundless sea horizon on the south 
and south-west, glittering in the noon-day sun ; and on the 
west, at fifty or sixty miles' distance, blue mountains rose 
from the bosom of the lake to a height of about 7,000 
feet above its level. 

It is impossible to describe the triumph of that moment; 
— here was the reward for aU our labour — for the years of 
tenacity with which we had toiled through Africa. 
England had won the sources of the Nile ! Long before I 
reached this spot, I had arranged to give three cheers with 
all our men in English style in honour of the discovery, 
but now that I looked down upon the great inland sea 



90 6BATITVDE TO PROFIDmCB. [Chap. III. 

lying nestled in the very heart of Africa, and thouglit how 
vainly mankind had sought these sources throughout so 
many ages, and reflected that I had been the humble 
instrument permitted to unravel this portion of the great 
mystery when so many greater than I had failed, I felt too 
serious to vent my feelings in vain cheers for victory, and 
I sincerely thanked God for having guided and supported 
us through all dangers to the good end. I was about 1,500 
feet above the lake, and I looked down from the steep 
granite cliff upon those welcome waters — upon that vast • 
reservoir which nourished Egypt and brought fertility 
where all was wilderness — upon that great source so long 
hidden from mankind ; that source of bounty and of 
blessings to millions of human beings ; and as one of the 
greatest objects in nature, I determined to honour it with 
a great name. As an imperishable memorial of one loved 
and mourned by our gracious Queen and deplored by 
every Englishman, I called this great lake "the Albert 
N'yanza." The Victoria and the Albert lakes are the 
two Sources of the Nile. 

The zigzag path to descend to the lake was so steep and 
dangerous that we were forced to leave our oxen with a 
guide, who was to take them to Magungo and wait for our 
arrival. We commenced the descent of the steep pass on 
foot. I led the way, grasping a stout bamboo. My wife 
in extreme weakness tottered down the pass, supporting 



Chap. Ill] FISHING TACKLE. 9] 

herself upon my shoulder, and stopping to rest every 
twenty paces. After a toilsome descent of about two 
hours, weak with years of fever, but for the moment 
strengthened by success, we gained the level plain below 
the cliff. A walk of about a mile through flat sandy 
meadows of fine turf interspersed with trees and bush, 
brought us to the water's edge. The waves were rolling 
upon a white pebbly beach : I rushed into the lake, and 
thirsty with heat and fatigue, with a heart full of gratitude, 
I drank deeply from the Sources of the Nile. Within a 
quarter of a mile of the lake was a fishing viUage named 
Vacovia, in which we now established ourselves. Every- 
thing smelt of fish — and everything looked lUie fishing ; 
not the " gentle art " of England with rod and fly, but 
harpoons were leaning against the huts, and lines almost 
as thick as the little finger were hanging up to dry, to 
which were attached iron hooks of a size that said much for 
the monsters of the Albert lake. On entering the hut I 
found a prodigious quantity of tackle; the lines were 
beautifully made of the fibre of the plantain ¦ stem, and 
were exceedingly elastic, and well adapted to withstand 
the first rush of a heavy fish ; the hooks were very coarse, 
but well barbed, and varied in size from two to six inches. 
A number of harpoons and floats for hippopotami were 
arranged in good order, and the tout ensemble of the hut 
showed that the owner was a sportsman. 



92 THE LAKE DECLARED TO BE THE SEA. [Chap. III. 

The harpoons for hippopotami were precisely the same 
pattern as those used by the Hamran Arabs on the Taka 
frontier of Abyssinia, having a narrow blade of three- 
quarters of an inch in width, with only one barb. The 
rope fitted to the harpoon was beautifully made of plantain 
fibre, and the float was a huge piece of ambatch-wood 
about fifteen inches in diameter. They speared the hippo- 
potamus from canoes, and these large floats were neces- 
sary to be easily distinguished ia the rough waters of 
the lake. 

My men were perfectly astounded at the appearance 
of the lake. The journey had been so long, and "hope 
deferred" had so completely sickened their hearts, that 
they had long since disbelieved in the existence of the 
lake, and they were persuaded that I was leading them to 
the sea. They now looked at the lake with amazement — 
two of them had already seen the sea at Alexandria, and 
they unhesitatiagly declared that this was the sea, but 
that it was not salt. 

Vacovia was a miserable place, and the soil was so 
impregnated with salt, that no cultivation was possible. 
Salt was the natural product of the country ; and the popu- 
lation were employed in its manufacture, which constituted 
the business of the lake shores — ^being exchanged for sup- 
plies from the interior. I went to examine the pits : these 
were about six feet deep, from which was dug a black 



Chap. III.] FBAST IN HONOUR OF TEE DISCOVERT. 93 

sandy mud tliat was placed in large earthenware jars ; 
these were supported upon frames, and. mixed with water, 
which filtering rapidly through small holes in the bottom, 
was received in jars beneath : this water was agaia used 
with fresh mud untU it became a strong brine, when it 
was boUed and evaporated. The salt was white, but very- 
bitter. I imagine that it has been formed by the decay of 
aq^uatic plants that have been washed ashore by the waves ; 
decomposing, they have formed a mud deposit, and much 
potash is combined with the salt. The flat sandy meadow 
that extends from the lake for about a mile to the foot of 
the precipitous cliffs of 1,500 feet, appears to have formed 
at one period the bottom of the lake — in fact, the flat land 
of Vacovia looks like a bay, as the mountain cliffs about 
five miles south and north descend abruptly to the water, 
and the flat is the bottom of a horseshoe formed by the 
cliffs. Were the level of the lake fifteen feet higher, this 
flat would be flooded to the base of the hUls. 

I procured a couple of kids from the chief of the village 
for some blue beads, and having received an ox as a pre- 
sent from the headman of Parkani in return for a number 
of beads and bracelets, I gave my men a grand feast in 
honour of the discovery ; I made them an address, explain- 
ing to them how much trouble we should have been saved 
had my whole party behaved well from the first commence- 
ment and trusted to my guidance, as we should have 



94 SUBFEY OF TEH LAKK [Chap. III. 

arrived here twelve months ago ; at the same time I told 
them, that it was a greater honour to have achieved the 
task with so small a force as thirteen men, and that as the 
lake was thus happily reached, and Mrs. Baker was restored 
to health after so terrible a danger, I should forgive them 
past offences and wipe out all that had been noted against 
them in my journal. This delighted my people, who 
ejaculated "El hamd el lUah!" (thank God!) and fell 
to immediately at their beef 

At sunrise on the following morning I took the compass, 
and accompanied by the chief of the village, my guide 
Eabonga, and the woman Bacheeta, I went to the borders 
of the lake to survey the country. It was beautifully 
clear, and with a powerful telescope I could distinguish 
two large waterfalls that cleft the sides of the mountains 
on the opposite shore. Although the outline of the moun- 
tains was distinct upon the bright blue sky, and the dark 
shades upon their sides denoted deep gorges, I could not 
distinguish other features than the two great falls, which 
looked like threads of silver on the dark face of the moun- 
tains. No base had been visible, even from an elevation 
of 1,500 feet above the water-level, on my first view of the 
lake, but the chain of lofty mountains on the west appeared 
to rise suddenly from the water. This appearance must 
have been due to the great distance, the base being .below 
the horizon, as dense columns of smoke were ascending 



Chap. III.] OEOORAPUr OF TEE LAKE. 95 

apparently from the surface of the water : this must have 
been produced by the burning of prairies at the foot of the 
mountains. The chief assured me that large canoes had 
been known to cross over from the other side, but that it 
required four days and nights of hard rowing to accom- 
plish the voyage, and that many boats had been lost in 
the attempt. The canoes of Unyoro were not adapted for 
so dangerous a journey ; but the western shore of the lake 
was comprised in the great kingdom of Malegga, governed 
by King Kajoro, who possessed large canoes, and traded 
with Kamrasi from a point opposite to Magungo, where 
the lake was contracted to the width of one day's voyage. 
He described Malegga as a very powerful country, and of 

greater extent than either Unyora or Uganda South 

of Malegga was a country named Tori, governed by a king 
of the same name : beyond that country to the south on 
the western shore no intelligence could be obtained from 
any one. 

The lake was known to extend as far south as Karagw^ ; 
and the old story was repeated, that Eumanika, the king 
of that country, was in the habit of sending ivory-hunting 
parties to the lake at Utumbi, and that formerly they had 
navigated the lake to Magungo. This was a curious con- 
firmation of the report given me by Speke at Gpndokoro, 
who wrote : " Eumanika is constantly in the habit of send- 
ing ivory-hunting parties to Utumbi." 



96 COUNTRIES BORBEBINO THE LAKE. [Chap. III. 

The eastern shores of the lake were, from north to 
south, occupied by Chopi, Unyoro, Uganda, Utumhi, and 
Karagw^ : from the last point, which could not be less 
than about two degrees south latitude, the lake was re- 
ported to turn suddenly to the west, and to continue in 
that direction for an unknown distance. North of Ma- 
legga, on the west of the lake, was a small country called 
M'Caroli ; then Koshi, on the west side of the Nile at its 
exit from the lake ; and on the east side of the Nile was 
the Madi, opposite to Koshi. Both the ¦ guide and the 
chief of Vacovia informed me that we should be taken by 
canoes to Magungo, to the point at which the Somerset 
that we had left at Karuma joined the lake ; but that we 
could not ascend it, as it was a succession of cataracts the 
whole way from Karuma until within a short distance of 
Magungo. The exit of the Nile from the lake at Koshi 
was navigable for a considerable distance, and canoes could 
descend the river as far as the Madi. 

They both agreed that the level of the lake was never 
lower than at present, and that it never rose higher than a 
mark upon the beach that accounted for an increase of 
about four feet. The beach was perfectly clean sand, upon 
which the waves rolled like those of the sea, throwing up 
weeds precisely as seaweed may be seen upon the English 
shore. It was a grand sight to look upon this vast reservoir 
of the mighty Nile, and to watch the heavy swell tumbling 



Chap. III.] THE GREAT BASIN OF THE NILE. O^J 

upon tlie beach, while far to the south-west the eye searched 
as vainly for a bound as though upon the Atlantic. It was 
with extreme emotion that I enjoyed this glorious scene. 
My wife, who had followed me so devotedly, stood by my 
side pale and exhausted — a wreck upon the shores of the 
great Albert Lake that we had so long striven to reach. 
2To European foot had ever trod upon its sand, nor had" the 
eyes of a white man ever scanned its vast expanse of water. 
We were the first ; and this was the key to the great secret 
that even Julius Caesar yearned to unravel, but in vain. 
Here was the great basin of the Nile that received mery 
drop of water, even from the passing shower to the roaring 
mountain torrent that drained from Central Africa towards 
the north. This was the great reservoir of the Nile ! 

The first cowp d'ceil from the summit of the cliff 1,500 
feet above the level had suggested what a closer examina- 
tion confirmed. The lake was a vast depression far below 
the general level of the country, surrounded by precipitous 
cliEfs, and bounded on the west and south-west by great 
ranges of mountains from five to seven thousand feet 
above the level of its waters — thus it was the one great 
reservoir into which everything m'ust drain ; and from this 
vast rocky cistern the Nile made its exit, a giant in its 
biith. It was a grand arrangement of Nature for the 
birth of so mighty and important a stream as the river 
Nile. The Victoria N'yanza of Speke formed a reservoir 
VOL. n. H 



98 SOURCES OF TEE NILE. [Chap. III. 

at a high altitude, receiving a drainage from the west by 
the Kitangul^ river, and Speke had seen the M'fumbiro 
mountain at a great distance as a peak among other moun- 
tains from which the streams descended, which by uniting 
formed the main river Kitangul^ the principal feeder of 
the Victoria lake from the west, in about the 2° S. latitude : 
thus the same chain of mountains that fed the Victoria on 
the east must have- a watershed to the west and north that 
would flow into the Albert lake. The general drainage of 
the Nile basin tending from south to north, and the Albert 
lake extending much farther north than the Victoria, it 
receives the river from the latter lake, and thus monopolizes 
the entire head-waters of the Nile. The Albert is the 
grand reservoir, while the Victoria is the eastern source ; 
the parent streams that form these lakes are from the same 
origia, and the Kitangul^ sheds its waters to the Victoria 
to be received eventimlly by the Albert, precisely as the 
highlands of M'fumbiro and the Blue Mountains pour 
their northern drainage direct into the Albert lake. The 
entire Nile system, from the first Abyssinian tributary the 
Atbara in N. latitude 17° S7' even to the equator, exhibits 
a imiform drainage from S.E. to N.W., every tributary 
flowing in that direction to the main stream of the Nile ; 
this system is persisted in by the Victoria Nile, which 
having continued a northerly course from its exit from the 
Victoria lake to Karuma in lat. 2° 16' N. turns suddenly to 



Chap. III.] AFFLUENTS OF THE ALBERT LAKE. 99 

the west and meets the Albert lake at Magungo ; thus, a line 
drawn from Magungo to the Eipon PaUs from the Yictoria 
lake will prove the general slope of the country to be the 
same as exemplified throughout the entire system of the 
eastern basin of the Nile, tending from S.E. to KW. 

That many considerable affluents flow into the Albert 
lake there is no doubt. The two waterfalls seen by 
telescope upon the western shore descending from the 
Blue Mountains must be most important streams, or they 
could not have been distinguished at. so great a distance as 
fifty or sixty miles ; the natives assured me that very 
many streams, varying iu size, descended the mountains 
upon aU sides iato the general reservoir. 

I returned to my hut : the flat turf in the vicinity of 
the village was strewn with the bones of immense fish, 
hippopotami, and crocodiles; but the latter reptiles were 
merely caught in revenge for any outrage committed by 
them, as their flesh was looked upon with disgust by the 
natives of Unyoro. They were so numerous and voracious 
in the lake, that the natives cautioned us not to allow the 
women to venture into the water even to the knees when 
filling their water-jars. 

It was most important that we should hiirry forward on 
our journey, as our return to England depended entirely 
upon the possibility of reaclyng Gondokoro before the end 
of April, otherwise the boats would have departed. I 

h2 



100 OUS, WHOLB PARTY FEFER-STBICKEN. [Chap. III. 

impressed upon our guide and the chief that we must be 
furnished with large canoes immediately, as we had no 
time to spare, and I started off Eabonga to Magungo, 
where he was to meet us with our riding oxen. The 
animals would be taken by a path upon the high groimd ; 
there was no possibility of travelling near the lake, as the 
cliffs in many places descended abruptly into deep water. 
I made him a present of a large quantity of beads that I 
had promised to give him upon reaching the lake ; he took 
his departure, agreeing to meet us at Magungo with our 
oxen, and to have porters in readiness to convey us direct 
to Shooa. 

On the following morning not one of our party could 
rise from the ground. Thirteen men, the boy Saat, four 
women, and we ourselves, were all down with fever. The 
air was hot and close, and the country frightfully un- 
healthy. The natives assured us that all strangers suffered 
in a similar manner, and that no one could live at Vacovia 
without repeated attacks of fever. 

The delay in supplying the boats was most annoying; 
every hour was precious ; and the lying natives deceived 
us in every manner possible, delaying us purposely in the 
hope of extorting beads. 

The latitude of Vacovia was 1° 15' K; longitude 
30° 50' E. My farthest southern point on the road from 
M'rooli was latitude 1° 13'. We were now to turn our 



Ohap. III.] TBABNING FOB HOME. 101 

faces towards the north, and every day's journey ¦would 
bring us nearer home. But where was home? As I 
looked at the map of the world, and at the little red spot 
that represented old England far, far away, and then gazed 
on the wasted form and haggard face of my wife and at 
my own attenuated frame, I hardly dared hope for home 
again. We had now been three years ever toiling onwards, 
and having completed the exploration of all the Abyssinian 
affluents of the Nile, in itself an arduous undertaking, 
we were now actually at the Nile head. We had 
neither health nor supplies, and the great journey lay aU 
before us. 

Notwithstanding my daily entreaties that boats might 
be supplied without, delay, eight days were passed at 
Vacovia, during which time the whole party suffered more 
or less from fever. At length caiioes were reported to have 
arrived, and I was requested to inspect them. They were 
merely single trees neatly hoHoiwed out, but very inferior 
in size to the large canoes on the Nile at M'rooli. The 
largest boat was thirty-two fe'et long, but I selected for 
ourselves one of twenty-sis feet, but wider and deeper. 
Fortunately I had purchased at Khartoum an English 
screw auger 1\ inch in diameter, and this tool I had 
brought with me, foreseeing some difficulties in boating 
arrangements. I now bored holes two feet apart in the 
gunwale of the canoe, and having prepared long elastic 



102 ARRANGE CANOES FOR LAKE VOYAGE. [Chap. III. 

wands, I spanned them in arches across the boat and 
lashed them to the auger holes. This completed, I secured 
them by diagonal pieces, and concluded by thatching the 
framework with a thin coating of reeds to protect us from 
the sun ; over the thatch I stretched ox-hides well drawn 
and -lashed, :so as to render our roof waterproof. This 
arrangement formed a tortoise-like protection that would 
be proof against' sun and rain. I then arranged some logs 
of exceedingly light wood along the bottom of the canoe, 
and Covered them with a thick bed of grass ; this was 
covered with an Abyssinian tanned ox-hide, and arranged 
with Scotch plaids. The arrangements completed, afforded 
a cabin, perhatps' ilot'as luxurious as those of the Penin- 
sular and OrietQtal Company's Vessels, but both rain and 
sim-^roof, which was the great desiderattai. In this 
Tough'" vessel we embarked on a cahn mortiing, when 
hardly a ripple moved the even surface of the lake. Each 
canoe had four rowers, two at either end. Their paddles 
were beautifully shaped, hewn from one piece of wood, 
the blade being rather wider than that of an ordinary 
spade, but concave in the iniier side, so as to give the 
rower a great hold upon the water. Having purchased 
with some difficulty a few fowls and dried fish, I put the 
greater number of my men in the larger canoe ; and with 
Eicharn, Saat, and the women, including the interpreter 
Bacheeta, we led the way, and started from Vacovia on the 



Ohap. III.] START FROM VACOriA: 103 

broad surface of the Albert N'yanza. The rowers paddled 
bravely; and the canoe, although heavily laden, went 
along at about four miles an hour. There was no excite- 
ment in Vacovia, and the chief and two or three attendants 
were all who came to see us off; they had a suspicion that 
bystanders might be invited to assist as rowers, therefore 
the entire population of the village had deserted. 

At leaving the shore, the chief had asked for a few 
beads, which, on receiving, he threw into the lake to pro- 
pitiate the inhabitants of the deep, that no hippopotami 
should upset the canoe. 

Our first day's voyage was delightful The lake was 
calm, the sky cloudy, and the scenery most lovely. At 
times the mountains on the west coast were not dis- 
cernible, and the lake appeared of indefinite width. We 
coasted withiu a hundred yards of the east shore ; some- 
times we passed *flats of sand and bush of perhaps a mile 
in width from the water to the base of the mountain cliffs ; 
at other times we passed directly underneath stupendous 
heights of about 1,500 feet, which ascended abruptly from 
the deep, so that we fended the canoes off the sides, and 
assisted our progress by pushing against the rock with 
bamboos. These precipitous rocks were all primitive, 
frequently of granite and gneiss, and mixed in many 
places^ with red porphyry. In the clefts were beautiful 
ever-greens of every tint, including giant euphorbias ; and 



104 rOTAGE UPON THE LAKE. [Chap. III. 

¦wherever a rivulet or spring glittered through the dark 
foliage of a ravine, it was shaded by the graceful and 
feathery wild date. 

Great numbers of hippopotami were sporting in the 
water, but I refused to fire at them, as the death of such 
a monster would be certain to delay us for at least a day, 
as the boatmen would not forsake the flesh. Crocodiles 
were exceedingly numerous both in and out of the water ; 
wherever a sandy beach invited them to bask, several 
monsters were to be seen, like trunks of trees, lying in 
the sun. On the edge of the beach above high-water mark 
were low bushes, and from this cover the crocodiles came 
scuttling down into the water, frightened at the approach 
of the canoe. There were neither ducks nor geese, as 
there were no feeding-grounds: deep water was close to 
the shore. 

Our boatmen worked weUj and long after dark we con- 
tinued our voyage, until the canoe was suddenly steered 
to the shore, and we grounded upon a steep beach of per- 
fectly clean sand. We were informed that we were near 
a village, and the boatmen proposed to leave us here for 
the night, while they should proceed in search of pro- 
visions. Seeing that they intended to take the paddles 
with them, I ordered these important implements to be 
returned to the boats, and a guard set over them, while 
several of my men should accompany the boatmen to the 



CtAP. III.] SHOBH BNCAMPMBNT. 105 

reported village. In the meantime, we arranged our 
angareps upon the beach, lighted a fire with some drift- 
wood, and prepared for the night. The men shortly re- 
turned, accompanied by several natives, with two fowls 
and one small kid. The latter was immediately consigned 
to the large copper pot, and I paid about three times its 
value to the natives, to encourage them to bring supplies 
on the following morning. 

"While dinner was preparing, I took an observation, and 
found our latitude was 1° 33' K "We had travelled well, 
having made 16' direct northtag. 

On the first crowing of our solitary cock, we prepared 
to start ;: — the boatmen were gone ! 

As soon as it was light, I took two men and went to 
the village, supposing they were sleeping in their huts. 
Within three hundred paces of the boats, upon a fine 
turfy sward, on rising ground, were three miserable fishing 
huts. These constituted the village. Upon arrival, no 
one was to be found : the natives had deserted. A fine 
tract of broken grass-land formed a kind of amphitheatre 
beneath the range of cliffs. These I scanned with the 
telescope, but I could trace no signs of man. We were 
evidently deserted by our boatmen, and the natives 
had accompanied them to avoid being pressed into our 
servica 

On my return to the canoes with this intelligence, my 



106 NO PILOT. [Chap. III. 

men were quite in despair; they could not believe that 
the boatmen had really absconded, and they begged me to 
allow them to search the country in the hope of finding 
another village. Strictly forbidding any man to absent 
himself from the boats, I congratulated ourselves on 
having well guarded the paddles, which there was no 
doubt would have been stolen by the boatmen had I 
allowed them to remain in their possession. I agreed to 
wait until 3 P.M. Should the boatmen not return by that 
hour, I intended to ptoceed without them. There was no 
dependence to be placed upon these contradictory natives. 
Kindness was entirely thrown away upon them. We had 
Kamrasi's orders for boats and men, but in this distant 
frontier the natives did not appear to attach much im- 
portance to their king : nevertheless, we were dependent 
upon them. Every hour was valuable, as our only chance 
of reaching Gondokoro in time for the boats depended 
upon rapidity of travelling. At the moment when I 
wished to press forward, delays occurred that were most 
trying. 

Three P.M. arrived, hvA, no signs of natives. "Jump 
into the boats, my lads ! " I cried to my men ; " I know 
the route." The canoes were pushed from the shore, and 
my people manned the paddles. Pive of my men were 
professional, boatmen, but no one understood the manage- 
ment of paddles except myself. It was in vain that I 



Chap. III.] ENDEAVOUR TO CIVILIZE THE CANOES. 107 

attempted to instruct my crew. Pull they certainly did ; 
but — ye gods who watch over boats ! — round and round we 
pirouetted, the two canoes waltzing and polking together 
ia their great baU-room, the Albert N'yanza. The voyage 
would have lasted ad infinitum. After three hours' 
exertion, we reached a. point of rock that stretched as a 
promontory into the lake. This bluff point was covered 
with thick jungle to the summit, and at the base was a 
small plot of sandy beach, from which there was no exit 
except by water, as the cliff descended sheer to the lake 
upon either side. It poured with raia, and with much 
difficulty we lighted a fire. Mosquitoes were in clouds, 
and the night was so warm that it was impossible to sleep 
beneath the blankets. Arranging the angareps upon the 
sand, with the raw ox-hides as coverlets, we lay down in 
the rain. It was too hot to sleep in the boat, especially as 
the temporary cabin was a perfect mosquito-nest. That 
night I considered the best plan to be adopted, and I 
resolved to adapt a paddle as a rudder on the following 
morning. It rained without ceasing the whole night ; and, 
at break of day, the scene was sufficiently miserable. The 
men lay on the wet sand, covered up with their raw hides, 
soaked completely through, but still fast asleep, from 
which nothing would arouse them. My wife was also wet 
and wretched. It still rained. I was soon at work. Cut- 
ting a thwart in the stern of the canoe with my hunting- 



108 ADAPT A SCOTCH PLAID FOR A SAIL. [Chap. III. 

knife, I bored a hole beneath it with the large auger, and 
securely lashed a paddle with a thong of raw hide that I 
cut off my well-saturated coverlet. I made a most effective 
rudder. None of my men had assisted me; they had 
remained beneath their soaked skins, smoking their short 
pipes, while I was hard at work. They were perfectly 
apathetic with despair, as thfeir ridiculous efforts at pad- 
dling on the previous evening had completely extinguished 
all hope within them. They were quite resigned to 
their destiny; and considered themselves as sacrificed to 
geography. 

I threw theia the auger, aQd explained, that I was ready 
to start, and should wait for no one ; and, cutting two 
bamboos, I arranged a mast and yard, upbn which I fitted 
a lai'ge Scotch plaid for a sail. We shoved off the boat : 
fortunately we had two or three spare paddles, therefore 
the rudder paddle was not missed. I took the helm, and 
instructed my men to think of nothing but pulling hard. 
Away we went as straight as an arrow, to the intense 
delight of my people. There was very little wind, but a 
light air filled the plaid aad eased us gently forward. 

Upon rounding the promontory we found ourselves in a 
large bay, the opposite headland being visible at about 
eight or ten miles' distance. Should we teoast the bay it 
would occupy two days. There was another small pro- 
montory farther in shore; I therefore resolved to steer 



Chap. III.] NATIVES rOLUNTBBR AS BOATMEN. 109 

direct for that point 'before venturing in a straight line 
from one headland to the other. 

Upon looking hehind me, I observed oiir canoe consort 
about a mile astern, amusing herself with pointing to all 
parts of the compass — the lazy men, not having taken the 
trouble to adapt the rudder as I had ordered them. 

We travelled at about four miles an hour, and my 
people were so elated that they declared themselves ready 
to row, without assistance, to the Mle junction. The 
water was perfectly calm, and upon rounding the next 
promontory I was rejoiced to see a village in a snug little 
bay, and a great number of canoes drawn up on the sandy 
beach, and others engaged in fishing. A number of natives 
were standing on the sand close to the water's edge, about 
haK a mile from us, and I steered directly towards them. 
Upon our close approach, they immediately sat down, and 
held up their paddles above their heads ; this was an un- 
mistakeable sign that they intended to volunteer as boat- 
men, and I steered the boat upon the beach. ISTo sooner 
had we grounded, than they rushed into the water and 
boarded us, most good-humouredly pulling down our mast 
and sail, which appeared to them highly absurd (as they 
never use sails) ; and they explained that they had seen on 
the other side the headland that we were strangers, and 
their chief had ordered them to assist us. I now begged 
them to send six men to the assistance of the lagging 



1 10 STORM ON THE LAKE. [Chap. IIL 

canoe ; this they promised to do, and, after waiting for 
some time, we started at a rattling pace to pull across the 
wide bay from point to point. 

When in the centre of the bay we were about four miles 
from land. At this time a swell set in from the south- 
west. While at Vacovia I had observed, that although 
the mornings were calm, a strong wind generally arose at 
1 P.M. from S.W. that brought a heavy sea upon the beach. 
I was now afraid that we should be subject to a gale 
before we could reach the opposite headland, as the rising 
swell betokened wind from the old quarter, especially as 
dark thunder-clouds were gathering on the western shore, i 

I told Bacheeta to urge the rowers forward, as our heavy 
canoe would certainly be swamped in the event of a gale. 
I looked at my watch : it was past noon, and I felt sure 
that we should catch a south-wester by about one o'clock. 
My men lookied rather green at the ominous black clouds 
and the increasing swell, but exclaimed, " Inshallah, there 
will be no wind." With due deference to their faith la 
predestination, I insisted upon their working the spai'e 
paddles, as our safety depended upon reaching the shore 
before the approaching storm. They had learnt to believe 
in my opinion, and they exerted themselves to their utmos'tf 
The old boat rushed through the water, but the surface»of 
the lake was rapidly changing ; the western shore was no 
longer visible, the water was dark, and innumerable white 




J/ ¦x. 



Chap. III.] NS ABLY SWAMPED. HI 

crests tipped the waves. The canoe lahouied heavily, and 
occasionally shipped water, which was immediately baled 
out with gourd-shells by my men, who now exclaimed, 
"Wah Illahi el kalam betar el Hawaga sahhe !" (By AUah, 
what the Hawaga says is true !) We were within about a 
mile and a half of the point for which we had been steer- 
ing, when we could no longer keep our course ; we had 
shipped several heavy seas, and had we not been well 
supplied with utensils for baling, we should have been 
swamped. Several bursts of thunder and vivid lightniag 
were followed by a tremendous gale from about the W.S.W. 
before which we were obliged to run for the shore. 

In a short space of time a most dangerous sea arose, and 
on several occasions the waves broke against the arched 
covering of the canoe, which happily protected her in a 
slight degree, although we were drenched with water. 
Every one was at work baling with all their might ; I had 
no idea that the canoe could live. Down came the rain 
in torrents, swept along with a terrific wind ; nothing was 
discernible except the high cliffs looming through the 
storm, and I only trusted that we might arrive upon a 
sandy beach, and not upon bluff rocks. We went along 
at a grand rate, as the arched cover of the canoe acted 
somewhat as a sail ; and it was an exciting nioment when 
we at length neared the shore, and approached the foaming 
breakers that were rolling wildly upon (happily) a sandy 



112 LAND SAFBLT ON SHORE. [Chap. III. 

beach beneath the cliffs. I told my men to be ready to 
jump out the moment that -we should touch the sand, and 
to secure the canoe by hauling the head up the beach. All 
were ready, and we rushed through the surf, the native 
boatmen paddling like steam-engines. "Here comes a 
wave ; look out ! " and just as we almost touched the 
beach, a heavy breaker broke over the black women who 
were sitting in the stern, and swamped the boat. My men 
jumped into the w»ter like ducks, and the next moment 
we were all rolled in confusion on the sandy shore. The 
men stuck well to the boat, and hauled her firmly on the 
sand, while my wife crawled out of her primitive cabin 
like a caddis worm from its nest, haK drowned, and jumped 
upon the shore. " El hamd • el lUah ! " (thank God !) we 
all exclaimed; " now for a pull — all together!" and having 
so far secured the boat that she could not be washed away, 
I ordered the men to discharge the cargo, and then to pull 
her out of the lake. Everything was destroyed except the 
gunpowder ; that was all in canisters. But where was the 
other canoe ? I made up my mind that it must be lost, 
for although much longer than our boat, it was lower in 
the water. After some time and much anxiety, we per- 
ceived it running for the shore about half a mile in our 
rear ; it was -in the midst of the breakers, and several times 
I lost sight of it J but the old tree behaved well, and 
brought the crew safe to the shore. 



Chap. III.] FALLS OF THE KAIIOIRI BIFES.. \ ] 3 

Fortunately there was a village not far from the spot 
where we landed, and we took possession of a hut, lighted 
a good fire, and wrapped ourselves in Scotch plaids and 
blankets wrung out, while our clothes were being dried, 
as there was not a dry rag in our possession. 

"We could procure nothing to eat, except a few dried 
fish that, not having been salted, were rather high flavoured. 
Our fowls, and also two pet quails, were drowned in the 
boat during the storm ; however, the»drowned fowls were 
made into a stew, and with a blazing fire, and clean straw 
to sleep upon, the night's rest was perhaps as perfect as in 
the luxury of home. 

On the following morning we were detained by bad 
weather, as a heavy sea was still running, and we were 
determined not to risk our canoes in another gale. It 
was a beautiful neighbourhood, enlivened by a magnificent 
waterfall that fell about a thousand feet from the moun- 
tains, as the Kaiigiri river emptied itself into the lake in a 
splendid volume of water. This river rises in the great 
marsh that we had crossed on our way from M'rooK to 
Vacovia. In this neighbourhood we gathered some mush- 
rooms — ^the true Agaricus campestris of Europe — which 
were a great luxury. 

In the afternoon the sea subsided, and we again started. 
We had not proceeded above three nules from the village, 
when I observed an elephant bathing in the lake ; he was 

yoL. II. I 



114 SHOOT A CROCODILE. [Chap. III. 

in water so deep, that he stood with only the top of his 
head and trunk above the surface. As we approached, he 
sunk entirely, only the tip of his trunk remaining above 
the water. I ordered the boatmen to put the canoe as 
close to him as possible, and we passed within thirty 
yards, just as he raised his head from his luxurious bath. 
I was sorely tempted to fire, but remembering my resolve, 
refrained from disturbing him, and he slowly quitted 
the lake, and entered? the thick jungle. A short distance 
beyond this spot two large crocodiles were lying upon the 
beach asleep ; but upon the approach of the canoe they 
plunged into the water, and raised their heads above the 
surface at about twenty-five paces. I was uncertain about 
my Fletcher rifle, as it had been exposed to so much wet ; 
therefore, to discharge it, I took a shot at the nearest 
crocodile just behind the eye. The little rifle was in per- 
fect order — thanks to Eley's "double waterproof central 
fire-caps," which will resist all weathers — and the bullet 
striking the exact spot, the great reptile gave a convulsive 
lash with his tail, and turning on his back, with his paws 
above the water, he gradually sunk. The native boatmen 
were dreadfully frightened at the report of the rifle, to the 
great amusement of their countrywoman, Bacheeta, and it 
was with difficulty that I persuaded them to direct the 
canoe to the exact spot. Being close to the shore, the 
water was not more than eight feet deep, and so beau- 



Chap. III.] TASTE OF GROCOMLE FLESH. ' 1 15 

tifully clear, that I could, when just above the crocodile, 
perceive it lying at the bottom on its beUy, and distin- 
guish the bloody head that had been shattered by the 
bullet. "While one of my men prepared a slip-knot, I 
took a long lance that belonged to a boatman, and drove 
it deep through the tough scales into the back of the neck ; 
hauling gently, upon the lance I raised the head near to 
the surface, and slipping the nOose over it, the crocodile 
was secured. It appeared to be quite dead, and the flesh 
would be a bonne-houche for my men ; therefore we towed 
it to the shore. It was a fine monster, about sixteen feet 
long ; and although it had appeared dead, it bit furiously 
at a thick male bamboo which I ran into its mouth to 
prevent it from snapping during the process of decapita- 
tion. The natives regarded my men with disgust as they 
cut huge lumps of the choicest morsels and stowed them 
in the canoes ; this did not occupy more than a quarter of 
an hour, and hurrying on board, we continued our voyage, 
well provided with meat — for all who liked it. To my 
taste nothing can be more disgusting than crocodile flesh. 
I have eaten almost everything; but although I have 
tasted crocodile, I could never succeed in swallowing it ; 
the combined flavour of bad fish, rotten flesh, and musk, is 
the carte de diner offered to the epicure. 

That evening we saw an elephant with an enormous pair 
of tusks ; he was standing on a hill about a quarter of a 

i2 



116 DISCOMFORTS OF LAKE FOTAOE. [Chap. III. 

mile from the boats as we halted. I was aided to resist 
this temptation by an attack of fever : it rained as usual, 
and no village being in the neighbourhood, we bivouacked 
in the rain on the beach in clouds of mosquitoes. 

The discomforts of this lake voyage were great ; in the 
day we were cramped in our small cabin like two tortoises 
in one shell, and at night it almost invariably rained. 
We were accustomed to the wet, but no acclimatisation 
can render the European body mosquito-proof; thus we 
had little rest. It was hard work for me, but for my un- 
fortunate wife, who had hardly recovered from her attack 
of coup de soleil, such hardships were most distressing. 

On the following morning the lake was calm, and we 
started early. The monotony of the voyage was broken 
by the presence of several fine herds of elephants, con- 
sisting entirely of bulls. I counted fourteen of these 
grand animals, all with large tusks, bathing together in 
a small shallow lake beneath the mountains, having a 
communication with the main, lake through a sandy beach : 
these elephants were only knee deep, and having been 
bathing they were perfectly clean, and their colossal black 
forms and large white tusks formed a beautiful picture in 
the calm lake beneath the lofty cliffs. It was a scene in 
harmony with the solitude of the Mle Sources — the wil- 
derness of rocks and forest, the Blue Mountains in the 
distance, and the great fountain of nature adorned with 



Chap. III.] ELEPHANTS IN THE LAKE. ] ] 7 

the miglity beasts of Africa ; the elephants in undisturbed 
grandeur, and hippopotami disporting their huge forms in 
the great parent of the Egyptian river. 

I ordered the boatmen to run the canoe ashore, that we 
might land and enjoy the scene. We then discovered 
seven elephants on the shore within about two hundred 
yards of us in high grass, while the main herd of fourteen 
splendid bulls ' bathed majestically in the placid lake, 
showering cold streams from their trunks over their backs 
and shoulders. There was no time to lose, as every hour 
was important : quitting the shore, we once more paddled 
along the coast. 

Day after day passed, the time occupied in travelling 
from sunrise to mid-day, at which hour a strong gale with 
rain and thunder occurred regularly, and obliged us to 
haul our canoes ashore. The country was very thinly 
inhabited, and the villages were poor and wretched ; the 
people most inhospitable. At length we arrived at a con- 
siderable town situated in a beautiful bay beneath pre- 
cipitous cliffs, the grassy sides of which were covered with 
flocks of goats ; this was Eppigoya, and the boatmen that 
we had procured from the last village were to deliver us 
in this spot. The delays in procuring boatmen were most 
annoying : it appeared that the king had sent orders that 
each village was to supply the necessary rowers ; thus we 
were paddled from place to place, at each of which the 



118 INHOSPITABLE NATimS. [Chap. III. 

men were changed, and no amount of payment would 
induce them to continue with us to the end of our 
voyage. 

Landing at Eppigoya, we were at once met by the head- 
man, and I proposed that he should sell us a few kids, as 
the idea of a mutton chop was most appetizing. Far from 
supplying us with this luxury, the natives immediately 
drove their flocks away, and after receiving a large present 
of beads, the headman brought us a present of a sick lamb 
almost at the point of natural death, and merely skin and 
bone. Fortunately there were fowls in thousands, as the 
natives did not use them for food ; these we purchased for 
one blue bead (monjoor) each, which in current value was 
equal to 250 fowls for a shilling. Eggs were brought in 
baskets containing several hundreds, but they were all 
poultry. 

At Eppigoya the best salt was produced, and we pur- 
chased a good supply — also some dried fish: thus pro- 
visioned, we procured boatmen, and again started on our 
voyage. 

Hardly had we proceeded two hundred yards, when we 
were steered direct to the shore below the town, and our 
boatmen coolly laid down their paddles and told us that 
they had performed their share, and that as Eppigoya was 
divided into four parts under separate headmen, each 
portion would supply rowers ! 



Chap. III.] THE LAKE CHANGES ITS CHARACTER. Hg 

Eidiculous as this appeared, there was no contesting 
their decision ; and thus we were handed over from one to 
the other, and delayed for about three hours in changing 
boatmen four times within a distance of less than a mile ! 
The perfect absurdity of such a regulation, combined with 
the delay when time was most precious, was trying to the 
temper. At, every change, the headman accompanied the 
boatmen to pur canoe, and presented us with three fowls 
at parting ; thus our canoes formed a floating poultry show 
as we had already purchased large supplies. Our live stock 
bothered us dreadfully; being without baskets, the fowls 
were determined upon suicide, and many jumped deli- 
berately overboard, while others that were tied by the legs 
were drowned in the bottom of the leaky canoe. 

After the tenth day from our departure from Vacovia 
the scenery increased in beauty. The lake had contracted 
to about thirty miles in width, and was decreasing rapidly 
northward ; the trees upon the mountains upon the western 
shore could be distinguished. Continuing our voyage north, 
the western shore projected suddenly, and diminished the 
width of the lake to about twenty miles. It was no longer 
the great inland sea that at Vacovia had so impressed me, 
with the clean pebbly beach that had hitherto formed the 
shore, but vast banks of reeds growing upon floating vege- 
tation prevented the canoes from landing. These banks 
were most peculiar, as they appeared to have been formed 



120 ARRIVAL AT MAQUN GO. [Chap. III. 

of decayed vegetation, from whicli the papyrus rushes took 
root ; the thickness of the floating mass was about three 
feet, and so tough and firm that a man could walk upon it, 
merely sinking above his ankles in the soft ooze. Beneath 
this raft of vegetation was extremely deep water, and 
the shore for a width of about half a mile was entirely 
protected by this extraordinary formation. One day a 
tremendous gale of wind and heavy sea broke off large 
portions, and the wind acting upon the rushes like sails, 
carried floating islands of some acres about the lake to be 
deposited wherever they might chance to hitch. 

On the thirteenth day we found ourselves at the end of 
our lake voyage. The lake at this point was between 
fifteen and twenty miles across, and the appearance of the 
country to the north was that of a delta. The shores upon 
either side were choked with vast banks of reeds, and as 
the canoe skirted the edge of that upon the east coast, we 
could find no bottom with a bamboo of twenty-five feet in 
length, although the floating mass appeared Hke terra firma. 
We were in a perfect wUdemess of vegetation. On the 
west were mountains of about 4,000 feet above the lake 
level, a continuation of the chain that formed the western 
shore from the south : these mountains decreased in height 
towards the north, in which direction the lake terminated 
in a broad valley of reeds. 

We were told that we had arrived at Magungo, and that 



Chap.iii.] embouchure of the somerset river. 121 

this was the spot where the boats invariably crossed from 
Malegga on the western shore to Kamrasi's country. The 
boatmen proposed that we should land upon the floating 
vegetation, as that would be a short cut to the village or 
town of MaguUgo ; but as the swell of the water against 
the abrupt raft of reeds threatened to swamp the canoe, I 
preferred coasting until we should discover a good landing- 
place. After skirting the floating reeds for about a mUe, 
we turned sharp to the east, and entered a broad channel 
of water bounded on either side by the everlasting reeds. 
This we were informed was the embouchure of the Somerset 
river from the Victoria N'yanza. The same river that we 
had crossed at Karuma, boiling and tearing along its rocky 
course, now entered the Albert N'yanza as dead Water ! I 
could not understand this; there was not the slightest 
current ; the channel was about half a mile wide, and I 
could hardly convince myself that this was not an arm of 
the lake branching to the east. After searching for some 
time for a landing-place among the wonderful banks of 
reeds, we discovered a passage that had evidently been 
used as an approach by canoes, but so narrow that our 
large canoe could with difficulty be dragged through — all 
the men walking through the mud and reeds, and towing 
with their utmost strength. Several hundited paces of this 
tedious work brought us through the rushes into opeii 
water, about eight feet deep, opposite to a clean rocky 



122 FISH AND FISHING. [Chap. III. 

shore. We had heard voices for some time while ohscured 
on the other side of the rushes, and we now found a 
numher of natives, who had arrived to meet us, with the 
chief of Magungo and our guide Eabonga, whom we had 
sent in advance with the riding oxen from Vacovia. The 
water was extremely shallow near the shore, and the 
natives rushed in and dragged the canoes by sheer force 
over the mud to the land. We had been so entirely hidden 
while on the lake on the other side of the reed bank that 
we had been unable to see the eastern, or Magungo shore ; 
we now found ourselves in a delightful spot beneath the 
shade of several enormous trees on firm sandy and rocky 
ground, while the country rose in a rapid incline to the 
town of Magungo, about a mile distant, on an elevated 
ridge. 

My first question was concerning the riding oxen. They 
were reported in good order. We were invited to wait 
under a tree until the presents from the headman should 
be -delivered. Accordingly, while my wife sat under the 
shade, I went to the waterside to examine the fishing 
arrangements of the natives, that were on an extensive 
scale. For many hundred feet, the edges of the floating 
reeds were arranged to prevent the possibility of a large 
fish entering the open water adjoining the shore without 
being trapped. A regular system of baskets were fixed 
at intervals, with guiding fenced to their mouths. Each 



Chap. III.] THE BAGGERA &¦ LEFIDOSIREN ANNECTETJS. 12.3 

hasket was about six feet in diameter, and the mouth 
about eighteen inches ; thus the arrangements were for the 
monsters of the Lake, the large bones of which, strewed 
about the vicinity, were a witness of their size. My men 
had just secured the half of a splendid fish, known in the 
Nile as the " baggera." They had found it in the water, 




THE PAOUERA. 



the other portion having been bitten off by a crocodile. 
The piece in their possession weighed about fifty pounds. 




LEHIDOKIREN ANNECTKUS 



This is one of the best fish in the lake. It is shaped like 
the perch, but is coloured, externally like the salmon. I 
also obtained from the natives an exceedingly good fish, of 



124 NATIVE FISHING ARRANGEMENTS. [Chap. III. 

a peculiar form, having four long feelers at the positions 
that would he occupied by the Limbs of, reptiles ; these 
looked like rudiments of legs. It had somewhat the ap- 
pearance of an eel; but, being oviparous, it can have no 
connexion with that genus. The natives had a most killing 
way of fishing with the hook and line for heavy fish. 
They arranged rows of tall bamboos, the eflds stuck firmly 
in the bottom, in a depth of about six fetet of water, and 
about five or ten yards apart. On the top of each was 
a lump of ambatch-wood about ten inches in diameter. 
Around this was wound a powerful line, and, a small hole 
being made in this float, it was lightly fixed upon the 
point of the bamboo, or fishing-rod. The line was securely 
attached to the bamboo, then wound round the large float, 
while the hook, baited with a live fish, was thrown to some 
distance beyond. Long rows of these fixed rods were set 
every morning by natiXres in canoes, and watchers attended 
them during the day, while they took their chance by 
night. When a large fish took the bait, his first rush 
unhitched the ambatch-float from the point of the bamboo, 
which, revolving upon the water, paid out line as required. 
"When entirely run out, the great size and buoyancy of the 
float served to check and to exhaust the fish. There are 
several varieties of fish that exceed 200 lbs. weight. 

A number of people now .arrived from the village, 
bringing a goat, fowls, eggs, and sour milk, and, beyond 



Chap. III.] EXIT OF THE NILE FROM THE LAKE. 125 

all luxuries, fresh butter. I delighted the chief, iu return 
for his civility, by giviag him a quantity of beads, and we 
were led up the hill towards Magungo. 

The day was beautifully clear. The soil was sandy and 
poor, therefore the road was clean and hard ; and, after 
the many days' boating, we enjoyed the walk, and the 
splendid view that lay before us when we arrived at 
Magungo, and looked back upon the lake. We were about 
250 feet above the water level. There were no longer the 
abrupt cliffs, desceijding to the lake, that we had seen in 
the south, but the general level of the country appeared to 
be about 500 feet above the water, at a distance of five 
or sis miles, from which point the ground descended in 
undulations, Magungo being situated on the summit of 
the nearest incline. The mountains on the Malegga side^ 
with the lake in the foreground, were the most prominent 
objects, forming the western boundary. A few miles north 
there appeared to be a gap in the range, and the lake 
continued to the west, but much contracted, while the 
mountain range on the northern side of the gap continued 
to the north-east. Due north and north-east the country 
was a dead flat, and far as the eye could reach was an 
extent of bright green reeds, marking the course of the 
Nile as it made its exit from the lake. The sheet of water 
at Magungo being about seventeen miles in width, ended 
in a long strip or tail to the north, until it was lost in the 



1 26 NILE NAVIGABLE FROM LAKE TO MADI. [Chaf. III. 

flat valley of green rushes. This valley may have been 
from four to six miles wide, and was bounded upon its 
west bank by the continuation of the chain of mountains 
that had formed the western boundary of the lake. The 
natives told me that canoes could navigate the Nile in its 
course from the lake to the Madi country, as there were 
no cataracts for a great distance, but that both the Madi 
and the Koshi were hostile, and that the ciirrent of the 
river was so strong, that should the canoe descend from 
the lake, it could not return without many rowers. They 
pointed out the country of Koshi on the west bank of the 
Nile, at its exit from the lake, which included . the 
mountains that bordered the river. The small country, 
M'Caroli, joined Malegga, and continued to the west, 
towards the Makkarika. The natives most positively 
refused to take me down the Nile from the lake into the 
Madi, as they said that they would be* killed by the 
people, who were their enemies, as I should not be with 
them on their return up the river. 

The exit of the Nile from the lake was plain enough, 
and if the broad channel of dead water were indeed the 
entrance of the Victoria Nile (Somerset), the information 
obtained by Speke would be remarkably confirmed. Up 
to the present time all the information that I had received 
from Kamrasi and his people had been correct. He had 
told me that I should be about twenty days from M'rooli 



Chap. III.] THE VICTORIA NILE AT MAGUNOO. \'2J 

to the lake ; I had been eighteen. He had also told me 
that the Somerset flowed from Karuma direct to the lake, 
and that, having joined it, the great Nile issued from the 
lake almost immediately, and flowed through the Koshi 
and Madi tribes. I now saw the river issuing from the 
lake within eighteen miles of Magungo ; and the Koshi 
and the Madi countries appeared close to me, bordering 
it on the west and east. Kamrasi being the king, it 
was natural that he should know his own frontier most 
intimately; but, although the chief of M"agungo and all 
the natives assured me that the broad channel of dead 
water at my feet was positively the brawling river that 
I had crossed below the Karuma Falls, I could not under- 
stand how so fine a body of water as that had appeared 
could possibly enter the Albert lake as dead water. The 
guide and natives laughed at my unbelief, and declared 
that it was dead water for a considerable distance from 
the junction with the lake, but that a great waterfall 
rushed down from a mountain, and that beyond that 
fall the river was merely a succession of cataracts through- 
out the entire distance of about six days' march to 
Karuma Falls. My real wish was to descend the Nile 
in canoes from its exit from the lake with my own men 
as boatmen, and thus in a short time to reach the cataracts 
in the Madi country ; there to forsake the canoes and aU 
my baggage, and to march direct to Gondokoro with only 



128 BESOLVE TO SETTLE THE NILE QUESTION. [Chap. III. 

our guns and ammunition. I knew from native report 
that the Nile was navigable as far as the Madi country 
to about Miani's tree, which Speke had laid down by- 
astronomical observation in lat. 3° 34' ; this would be only 
seven days' march from Gondokoro, and by such a direct 
course I should be sure to arrive in time for the boats to 
Khartoum. I had promised Speke that I would explore 
most thoroughly the doubtful portion of the river that 
he had been forced to neglect from Karuma Falls to the 
lake. I was myself confused at the dead water junction ; 
and, although I knew that the natives must be right — 
as it was their own river, and they had no inducement to 
mislead me — I was determined to sacriiice every other 
wish in order to fulfil my promise, and thus to settle the 
Nile question most absolutely. That the Nile flowed out 
of the lake I had heard, and I had also confirmed by 
actual inspection ; from Magungo I looked upon the two 
countries, Koshi and Madi, through which it flowed, and 
these countries I must actually pass through and again 
meet the Nile before I could reach Gondokoro. Thus the 
only point necessary to swear to, was the river between 
the lake and the Karuma Falls. 

I had a bad attack of fever that evening, and missed 
my star for the latitude; but on the following morning 
before daybreak I obtained a good observation of Vega, 
and determined the latitude of Magungo 2° 16' due west 



Chap. III.] NOBLT SHCONDED BT MRS. BAKER. 129 

from Atada or Karuma Falls. This was a strong con- 
firmation that the river beneath my feet was the Somerset 
that I had crossed in the same latitude at Atada, where 
the river was ruiming due west, and where the natives 
had pointed in that direction as its course to the lake. 
Nevertheless, I was determined to verify it, although by 
this circuitous route I might lose the boats from Gondo- 
koro and become a prisoner in Central Africa, ill, and 
without quinine, for another year. I proposed it to my 
wife, who not only voted in her state of abject weakness 
to complete the river to Karuma, but wished, if possible, 
to return and. follow the Nile from the lake down to 
Gondokoro ! This latter resolve, based upon the simple 
principle of "seeing is believing," was a sacrifice most 
nobly proposed, but simply impossible and unnecessary. 

We saw from our poiat at Magungo the Koshi and 
Madi countries, and the Wile flowing out of the lake 
through them. "We must of necessity pass through those 
countries on our road to Gondokoro direct from Karuma 
viA Shooa, and should we not meet the river in the Madi 
and Koshi country, the Nile that we now saw would not 
be the Nile of Gondokoro. We knew, however, that it 
was so, as Speke and Grant had gone by that route, and 
had met the Nile near Miani's tree ia lat. 3° 34' in the 
Madi country, the Koshi being on its western bank ; thus, 
as we were now at the Nile head and saw it passing 

tOL. II. K 



130 LEAVE MAQUNGO. [Chap. III. 

through the Madi and Koshi, any argument against the 
river would be the argwnentum ad dbsv/rdwm. I ordered 
the boats to be got ready to start immediately. 

The chief gave me much information, confirmiag the 
accounts that I had heard a year previous in the Latooka 
countries, that formerly cowrie sheUs were brought in 
boats from the south, and that these shells and brass coil 
brackets came by the lake from Karagw4. He called also 
several of the natives of Malegga, who had arrived with 
beautifully-prepared mantles of antelope and goat-skins, 
to exchange for bracelets and glass beads. The Malegga 
people were in appearance the same as those of Unyoro, 
but they spoke a different language. 

The boats being ready, we took leave of the chief, 
leaving him an acceptable present of beads, and we 
descended the hill to the river, thankful at having so 
far successfully terminated the expedition as to have 
traced the lake to that important poiat Magungo, which 
had been our clue to the discovery even so far away ia 
time and place as the distant country of Latooka. We 
were both very weak and iU, and my knees trembled 
beneath me as we Avalked down the easy descent. ' I, in 
my enervated state, endeavouring to assist my wife, we 
were the "bliad leading the blind ; " but had life closed on 
that day we could have died most happily, for the hard 
fight through sickness and misery had ended in victory; 



Chap. III.] VOTAGE VP THE riCTORIA NILE. 131 

and, althougli I looked to home as a paradise never to be 
regained, I could have lain down to sleep in contentment 
on this spot, with the consolation that, if the body had 
been vanquished, we died with the prize in our grasp. 

On arrival at the canoes we found everything in 
readiness, and the boatmen already in their places. A 
crowd of natives pushed us over the shallows, and once 
in deep water we passed through a broad canal which led 
us into the open channel without the labour of towing 
through the narrow inlet by which we had arrived. Once 
in the broad channel of dead water we steered due east, 
and made rapid way until the evening. The river as it 
now appeared, although devoid of current, was an average 
of about 500 yards in width. Before we halted for the 
night I was subjected to a most severe attack of fever, and 
upon the boat reaching a certain spot I was carried on a 
litter, perfectly unconscious, to a village, attended carefully 
by my poor sick wife, who, herself haK dead, followed 
me on foot through the marshes in pitch darkness, and 
watched over me until the morning. At daybreak I was 
too weak to stand, and we were both carried down to the 
canoes, and, crawling helplessly within our grass awning, 
we lay down like logs while the canoes continued their 
voyage. Many of our men were also suffering from fever. 
The malaria of the dense masses of floating vegetation 
was most poisonous ; and upon looking back to the canoe 

k2 



132 GUIDID BT WATBBrPLANTS. [Chap. III. 

that followed in our wake, I observed all my men sitting 
crouched together sick and dispirited, looking like departed 
spirits being ferried across the melancholy Styx. 

The river now contracted rapidly to about 250 yards 
in width about ten miles from Magungo. "We had left 
the vast flats of rush banks, and entered a channel 
between high ground, forming steep foresl^covered Mils, 
about 200 feet on either side, north and south: never- 
theless there was no perceptible stream, although there 
was no doubt that we were actually in the channel of a 
river. The water was clear and exceediagly deep. In the 
evening we halted, and slept on a mud bank close to the 
water. The grass in the forest was very high and rank : 
thus we were glad to find an open space for a bivouac, 
although a nest of mosquitoes and malaria. 

On waking the next morning, I observed that a thick 
fog covered the surface of the river ; and as I lay upon 
my back, on my angarep, I amused myself before I woke 
my men by watching the fog slowly lifting from the river. 
While thus employed I was struck by the fact, that the 
little green water-plants, like floating cabbages (Pistia 
Siratioies, L.), were certaitdy, although very slowly, moving 
to the west. I immediately jumped up, and watched them 
, most attentively ; there was no doubt about it ; they were 
travelling towards the Albert lake. We were now about 
^.eighteen miles in a direct line from Magungo, and there 



Chap. III.] INCBEASH OF THU CURBBNT. ]33 

¦was a current in the river, wHch, however slight, was 
nevertheless perceptible. 

Our toilette did not take long to arrange, as we had 
thrown ourselves down at night with our clothes on; 
accordingly we entered the canoe at once, and gave the 
order to start. 

The woman Bacheeta knew the country, as she had 
formerly been to Magungo when in the service of Sali, 
who had been subsequently murdered by Kamxasi; she 
now informed me that we should terminate our canoe 
voyage on that day, as we should arrive at the great water- 
fall of which she had often spoken. As we proceeded 
the river gradually narrowed to about 180 yards, and 
when the paddles ceased working we could distiactly 
hear the roar of water. I had heard this on waking in the 
morning, but at the time I had imagined it to proceed 
from distant thunder. By ten o'clock the current had so 
increased as we proceeded, that it was distiactly per- 
ceptible, although weak. The roar of the waterfall was 
extremely loud, and after sharp puHiag for a couple of 
hours, during which time the stream increased, we arrived 
at a few deserted fishing-huts, at a point where the river 
made a slight turn, I never saw such an extraordinary 
show of crocodiles as were exposed on every sandbank on 
the sides of the river ; they lay like logs of timber close 
together, and upon one bank we counted twenty-seven, of 



134 THB MURCHISON FALLS. [Chap. III. 

large size ; every basking place was crowded in a similar 
manner. From the time we had fairly entered the river, 
it had heen confined by heights somewhat precipitous on 
either side, risiiig to about 180 feet. At this point the 
cliffs were stiU. higher, and exceedingly abrupt. From the 
roar of the water, I was sure that the fall would be in 
sight if we turned the corner at the bend of the river; 
accordingly I ordered the boatmen to row as far as they; 
could : to this they at first objected, as they wished to stop 
at the deserted fishing village, which they explained was 
to be the limit of the journey, farther progress being 
impossible. 

However, I explained that I merely wished to see the 
fall, and they rowed immediately up the stream, which 
was now strong against us. Upon rounding the comer, a 
magnificent sight burst suddenly upon us. On either side 
the river were beautifully wooded cliffs rising abruptly to' 
a height of about 300 feet ; rocks were jutting out from 
the intensely green foliage ; and rushing through a gap 
that cleft the rock exactly before us, the river, contracted 
from a grand stream, was pent up in a narrow gorge of 
scarcely fifty yards in width ; roaring furiously through 
the rock-bound pass, it plunged in one leap of about 120 
feet perpendicular into a dark abyss below. 

The fall of water was snow-white, which had a superh 
effect as it contrasted with the dark cliffs that waUed the 




The Miirchison Falls, about 120 feet high, rom the Victoria Nile or Somerset River, to the level 

of the Albert Lake. 



Chap. III.] NUMEROUS CROCODILES. 135 

river, while the graceful palms of the tropics and wild 
plantains perfected the beauty of the view. This was the 
greatest waterfall of the Nile, and, in honour of the dis- 
tinguished President of the Eoyal Geographical Society, I 
named it the Murchison Falls, as the most important 
object throughout the entire course of the river. 

The boatmen, having been promised a present of beads 
to induce them to approach the fall as close as possible, 
succeeded in bringing the canoe within about 300 yards of 
the base, but the power of the current and the whirlpools 
in the river rendered it impossible to proceed farther. 
There was a sandbank on our left which was literally 
covered with crocodiles lying parallel to each other like 
trunks of trees prepared for shipment ; they had no fear 
of the canoe until we approached within about twenty 
yards of them, when they slowly crept into the water ; all 
excepting one, an immense fellow who lazily lagged 
behind, and immediately dropped dead as a bullet from 
the little Fletcher No. 24 struck him in the brain. 

So alarmed were the boatmen at the unexpected report 
of the rifle that they immediately dropped into the body 
of the canoe, one of them losing his paddle. Nothing 
would induce them to attend to the boat, as I had fired a 
second shot at the crocodile as a " quietus," and the natives 
did not know how often the alarming noise would be 
repeated. Accordingly we were at the mercy of the 



1 36 HIPPOPOTAMUS CEAROES THE CANOE. [Chap. III. 

powerful stream, and the canoe was whisked round by 
the eddy and carried against a thick hank of high reeds ; 
— hardly had we touched this obstruction when a tre- 
mendous commotion took place in the rushes, and in an 
instant a great bull hippopotamus charged the canoe, and 
with a severe shock striking the bottom he lifted us half 
out of the water. The natives who were in the bottom of 
the boat positively yelled with terror, not knowing whether 
the shock was ia any way connected with the dreaded 
report of the rifle ; the black women screamed ; and the 
boy Saat handing me a spare rifle, and Eicharn being 
ready likewise, we looked out for a shot should the angry 
hippo again attack us. 

A few kicks bestowed by my angry men upon the re- 
cumbent boatmen restored them to the perpendicular. The 
first thing necessary was to hunt for the lost paddle that 
was floating down the rapid current. The hippopotamus, 
proud of having disturbed us, but doubtless thinking us 
rather hard of texture, raised his head to take a last view 
of his enemy, but sank too rapidly to permit a shot. 
Crocodile heads of enormous size were on aU sides, appear- 
ing arid vanishing rapidly as they rose to survey us ; at 
one time we counted eighteen upon the surface. Fine fun 
it would have been for these monsters had the bull hippo 
been successful in his attempt to capsize us ; the fat black 
woman, Karka, would have been a dainty morsel. Having 



Chap. III.] ARRIVAL OF OXEN, BVT NOT THE GUIDE. 137 

recovered tlie lost paddle, I prevailed upon the boatmen 
to keep the canoe steady while I made a sketch of the 
Murchison Falls, which being completed, we drifted 
rapidly down to the landing-place at the deserted fishing- 
village, and bade adieu to the navigation of the lake and 
river of Central Africa. 

The few huts that existed in this spot were mere ruins. 
Clouds had portended rain, and down it came, as it usually 
did once in every twenty-four hours. However, that 
passed away by the next morning, and the day broke, 
discovering us about as wet and wretched as we were 
accustomed to be. I now started off four of my men 
with the boatmen and the interpreter Bacheeta to the 
nearest village, to inquire whether our guide Eabonga had 
arrived with our riding oxen, as our future traveUiag was 
to be on land, and the limit of our navigation must have 
been well known to him. After some hours the people 
returned, minus the boatmen, with a message from the 
headman of a village they had visited, that the oxen were 
there, but not the guide Eabonga, who had remained at 
Magungo, but that the animals should be brought to us 
that evening, together with porters to convey the luggage. 

In the evening a number of people arrived, bringiag 
some plantain cider and plantaias as a present from the 
headman; and promising that, upon the foUowiug morn- 
ing, we should be conducted to his village. 



138 LOSS OF OXEN FBOM FLT-BITE. [Chap. Ill 

The next day we started, but not until tlie afternoon, as 
we had to await the arrival of the headman, who was to 
escort us. Our oxen were brought, and if we looked 
wretched, the animals were a match. They had been 
bitten by the fly, thousands of which were at this spot. 
Their coats were staring, ears drooping, noses running, and 
heads hanging down ; aU the symptoms of fly-bite, together 
with extreme looseness of the bowels. I saw that it was 
all up with our animals. Weak as I was myself, I was 
obliged to walk, as my ox could not carry me up the steep 
inclination, and I toiled languidly to the summit of the 
cliff. It poured with rain. Upon arrival at the summit 
we were in precisely the same park-like land that charac- 
terises Chopi and Unyoro, but the grass was about seven 
feet high; and from the constant rain, and the extreme 
fertility of the soil, the country was choked with vege- 
tation. We were now above the Murchison Tails, and we 
heard the roaring of the water beneath us to our left. We 
continued our route parallel to the river above the Palls, 
steeriing east ; and a little before evening we arrived at a 
small village belonging to the headman who accompanied 
us. I was chilled and wet ; my wife had fortunately been 
carried on her litter, which was protected by a hide roofing. 
Feverish and exhausted, I procured from the natives some 
good acid plums, and refreshed by these I was able to boil 
my thermometer and take the altitude. 



Chap. III.] SIOZNJilSS ON THE MARCH. I39 

On the following morning we started, the route as before 
parallel to the river, and so close that the roar of the 
rapids was extremely loud. The river flowed in a deep 
ravine upon our left. We continued for a day's march 
along the Somerset, crossing many ravines and torrents, 
until we turned suddenly down to the left, and arriving at 
the bank we were to be transported to an island called 
Patooan, that was the residence of a chief. It was about 
an hour after sunset, and beiag dark, my riding ox, who 
was being driven as too weak to carry me, fell into an 
elephant pitfall. After much hallooing, a canoe was 
brought from the island, which was not more than fifty 
yards from the mainland, and we were ferried across. "We 
were both very ill with a sudden attack of fever ; and my 
wife, not being able to stand, was, on arrival at the island, 
carried on a litter I knew not whither, escorted by some of 
my men, while I lay down on the wet ground quite ex- 
hausted with the annihilating disease. At length the 
remainder of my men crossed over, and those who had 
carried my wife to the village returning with firebrands, I 
managed to creep after them with the aid of a long stick, 
upon which I rested with both hands. After a walk, 
through a forest of high trees, for about a quarter of a 
mile, I arrived at a village where I was shown a wretched 
hut, the stars being visible through the roof In this my 
wife lay dreadfully iU upon her angare'p, and I fell down 



140 TEE ISLAND OF PATOOJN. [Chap. III. 

upon some straw. About an hour later, a violent thunder- 
storm hroke over us, and our hut was perfectly flooded ; 
we, being far too iU. and helpless to move from our posi- 
tions, remained dripping wet and shivering with fever 
imtil the morning. Our servants and people had, Kke all 
natives, made themselves much more comfortable than 
their employers ; nor did they attempt to interfere with omr 
misery in any way untU summoned to appear at sunrise. 

The island of Patooan was about half a mile long by 
150 yards wide, and was one of the numerous masses of 
rocks that choke the river between Karuma Falls and the 
great Murchison cataract. The rock was entirely of grey 
granite, from the clefts of which beautiful forest trees 
grew so thickly that the entire island was in shade. In 
the middle of this secluded spot was a considerable village 
thickly inhabited, as the population of the mainland had 
fled from their dwellings and had taken refuge upon the 
numerous river islands, as the war was raging between 
Eionga and KamrasL A succession of islands from the 
east of Patooan continued to within a march of Karuma 
Falls. These were in the possession of Eionga, and a stUl 
more powerful chief and ally, Powooka, who were the 
deadly enemies of Kamrasi. 

It now appeared that after my departure from M'rooU 
to search for the lake, Ibrahim had been instructed by 
Kamrasi to accompany his army, and attack Fowooka. 



Chap. III.] INFORMATION ABOUT IBRAHIM. ] 41 

This had been effected, but the attack had been confined 
to a bombardment by musketry from the high cUffs of the 
river upon the people confined upon one of the islands. 
A number of men had been killed, and Ibrahim had 
returned to G-ondokoro with a quantity of ivory and 
porters supplied by Kamrasi ; but he had left ten of his 
armed men as hostages with the king, to act as his guard 
imtil he shoiild return on the following year to Unyoro. 
Ibrahim and his strong party having quitted the country, 
Fowooka had invaded the mainland of Chopi, and had 
burnt and destroyed all the villages, and killed many 
people, including a powerful chief of Kamrasi's, the father 
of the headman of the island of Patooan where we were 
now staying. Accordingly the fugitives from the destroyed 
villages had taken refuge upon the island of Patooan, and 
others of the same character. The headman informed us 
that it would be impossible to proceed along the bank of 
the river to Karuma, as that entire line of country was in 
possession of the enemy. This was sufficient to assure me 
that I should not procure porters. 

There was no end to the difficulties and trouble in this 
horrible country. My exploration was completed, as it 
was by no means necessary to continue the route from 
Patooan to Karuma. I had followed the Somerset from 
its junction with the lake at Magungo to this poiat ; here 
it was a beautiful river, precisely similar in character to 



142 DIFFERENCE IN THE LEVEL. [Chap. III. 

the point at whicli I had left it at Karuma : we were now 
within thirty miles of that place, and ahout eighteen nules 
from the point opposite Eionga's island, where we had first 
hit upon the river on our arrival from the north. The 
direction was perfectly in accordance with my ohservations 
at Karuma, and at Magungo, the Somerset running from 
east to west. The river was about 180 to 200 yards in 
width, but much obstructed with rocks and islands; the 
stream ran at about four miles per hour, and the rapids 
and falls were so numerous that the roar of water had 
been continuous throughout our march from Murchison 
Tails. By observations of Casella's thermometer I made 
the altitude of the river level at the island of Patooan 
3,195 feet ; thus from this point to the level of the Albert 
lake at Magungo there was a fall of 475 feet — ^this dif- 
ference being included between Patooan and the foot of 
Murchison Falls : the latter, being at the lowest estimate 
120 feet, left 355 feet to be accounted for between Patooan 
and the top of the falls. As the ledges of rock through- 
out the course of the river formed a series of steps, this 
was a natural difference in altitude that suggested the 
correctness of the observations. 

At the river level below Karuma Falls I had measured 
the altitude at 3,996 feet above the sea level Thus, there 
was a fall from that point to Patooan of 801 feet, and a 
total of 1,276 feet in the descent of the river from Karuma 



Chap. III.] mFFEBENCH IN OBSERVATIONS. I43 

to the Albert N'yanza. These measurements, most care- 
fully taken, corroborated the opinion suggested by the 
natural appearance of the river, which was a mere suc- 
cession of cataracts throughout its westerly course from 
Karuma. 

To me these observations were more than usually in- 
teresting, as when I had met my friend Speke at Gondo- 
koro he was much perplexed concerning the extraordinary 
difference in his observation between the altitude of the 
river level at Karuma Falls, lat. 2° 15', and at Gebel Kookoo 
in the Madi country, lat. 3° 34', the point at which he sub- 
sequently met the river. He knew that both rivers were 
the Mle, as he had been told this by the natives ; the one, 
before it had joined the Albert lake — the other, after its 
exit; but he had been told that the river was navigable 
from Gebel Kookoo, lat. 3° 34', straight up to the junction 
of the lake ; thus, there could be no great difference in 
altitude between the lake and the Nile where he met it, in 
lat. 3° 34'. Nevertheless, he found so enormous a difference 
in his observations between the river at Karuma and at 
Gebel Kookoo, that he concluded there must be a fall 
between Karuma and the Albert lake of at least 1,000 
feet; by careful measurements I proved the closeness of 
his reasoning and observation, by finding a fall of only 
275 feet more than he had anticipated. From Karuma to 
the Albert lake (although unvisited by Speke), he had 



144 ALTITUDES. [Chap. III. 

marked upon his map, "river falls 1,000 feet;" by actual 
measurement I proved it to be 1,275 feet. 

The altitudes measured by me have been examined, and 
the thermometer that I used had been tested at Kew, and 
its errors corrected since my return to England ; thus all 
altitudes observed with that thermometer should be cor- 
rect, as the results, after correction by Mr. Dunkin, of the 
Greenwich Eoyal Observatory, are those now quoted. It 
will therefore be interestiug to compare the observations 
taken at the various points on the Nile and Albert lake 
in the countries of Unyoro and Chopi — the correctness of 
which relatively will be seen by comparison : — 

1864. Feet. 

Jan. 22. Eionga's island, 80 feet above tte !K'ile . . . . 3, 864 

,, 25. Karuma, 'below tlie falls, river level (Atada) . . 3,996 

„ 31. South, of Karuma, river level on road to M'rooH . 4,056 

Feb. 21. M'rooli lat. 1° 38' river level 4,061 

Mar. 14. Albert N'yanza, lake level 2,720 

April 7. Island of Patooan (Shooa Moru) river level . . . 3,195 

By these observations it will be seen that from M'rooli, ia 
lat. 1° 38' to Karuma in lat. 2° 15', there is a fall of sixty- 
five feet ; say minus five feet, for the Karuma Falls equals 
sixty feet fall in 37' of latitude ; or allowing for the great 
bend of the river, twenty miles of extra course, it will be 
equal to about sixty statute miles of actual river from 
M'rooli to Atada or Karuma Falls, showing a fall of one 
foot per imle. From M'rooli to the head of the Karuma 



Chap. III.] ALTITUDES. I45 

Falls the river is navigable ; thus the observations of alti- 
tudes showing a fall of one foot per nule must be extremely 
accurate. 

The next observations to be compared are those from 
Karuma Falls throughout the westerly course of the river 
to the Albert lake : — 

Feet. Feet. 

Eiver level below Karuma Falls 3,996 

Kionga's island 3,861— 80 feet clifi' . . . 3,784 = 212 fall. 

to the west. 
River level at island of Patooan (Shooa Moiii) . 3,195 = 589 fall, 
from Eionga's island. 

Level of Albert lake 2,720 = 475 faU. 

from Patooan to lake. 

From Karuma 1,276 fall. 

These observations were extremely satisfactory, and showed 
that the thermometer (Casella's) behaved well, at every 
boiling, as there was no confusion of altitudes, but each 
observation corroborated the preceding. The latitude of 
the island of Patooan by observation was 2° 16' : we were 
thus due west of Magungo, and east of Karuma Falls. 



VOL. n. 



CHAPTEE IV. 

TnSACHEROUS DESIGNS OF THE NATIVES. 

TTTE were prisoners on the island of Patooan, as we could 
not procure porters at any price to remove our effects. 
We had lost aU our riding oxen within a few days ; they 
had succumbed to the flies, and the only animal alive was 
already half dead ; this was the little bull that had always 
carried the boy Saat. It was the 8th April, and within a 
few days the boats upon which we depended for our return 
to civilization would assuredly quit Gondokoro. I offered 
the natives aU the beads that I had (about 50 lbs.) and 
the whole of my baggage, if they would carry us to Shooa 
direct from this spot. We were in perfect despair, as we 
were both completely worn out with fever and fatigue, and 
certain death seemed to stare us in the face should we 
remain in this unhealthy spot ; worse than death was the 
idea of losing the boats and becoming prisoners for another 
year in this dreadful land ; which must inevitably happen 
should we not hurry direct to Gondokoro without delay. 
The natives, with their usiial cunning, at length offered to 



Chap. IV.] CONFINED IN THE COUNTRT. I47 

convey us to Shooa, provided that I paid tliem the beads 
in advance ; the boats were prepared to ferry us across the 
river, but I fortunately discovered through the woman 
Bacheeta their treacherous intention of placing us on the 
uninhabited wilderness on the north side, and leaving us to 
die of hunger. They had conspired together to land us, 
but to immediately return with the boats after ha\Tng thus 
got rid of the incubus of their guests. 

We were in a great dilemma — had we been in good 
health, I would have forsaken everything but the guns and 
ammunition, and have marched direct to Gondokoro on 
foot : but this was utterly impossible ; neither my wife nor 
I could walk a quarter of a mile without fainting — there 
was no guide — and the country was now overgrown with 
impenetrable grass and tangled vegetation eight feet high ; 
— we were in the midst of the rainy season — not a day 
passed without a few hours of deluge ; — altogether it was 
a most heartbreakiag position. Added to the distress of 
mind at being thus thwarted, there was also a great scarcity 
of provision. Many of my men were weak, the whole party 
having suffered much from fever — ia fact, we were com- 
pletely helpless. 

Our guide Eabonga, who had accompanied us from 
M'rooli, had absconded, and we were left to shift for our- 
selves. I was determined not to remain on the island, as 
I suspected that the boats might be taken away, and that 

l2 



148 DETERMINE TO PROCEED. [Chap. IV. 

we should be kept prisoners ; I therefore ordered my men 
to take the canoes, and to ferry us to the main land, from 
whence we had come. The headman, upon hearing this 
order, offered to carry us to a village, and then to await 
orders from Kamrasi as to whether we were to be for- 
warded to Shooa or not. The district in which the island 
of Patooan was situated was called Shooa Morii, although 
having no connexion with the Shooa in the Madi country 
to which we were bound. 

We were ferried across to the main shore, and both in 
our respective angareps were carried by the natives for 
about three miles : arriving at a deserted village, half of 
which was in ashes, having been burnt and plundered by 
the enemy, we were deposited on the ground in front of 
an old hut in the pouring rain, and were informed that we 
should remain there that night, but that on the following 
morning we should proceed to our destination. 

Not trusting the natives, I ordered my men to disarm 
them, and to retain their spears and shields as security for 
their appearance on the following day. This, effected, we 
were carried into a filthy hut about six inches deep in 
mud, as the roof was much out of repair, and the heavy 
rain had flooded it daily for some weeks. I had a canal 
cut through the muddy floor, and in misery and low spirits 
we took possession. 

On the following morning not a native was present! 



Chap. IV.] BESHBim BT THE NATIVES. 149 

We had been entirely deserted ; although I held the spears 
and shields, every man had absconded — ^there were neither 
inhabitants nor provisions — ^the whole country was a wil- 
derness of rank grass that hemmed us in on aU sides ; not 
an animal, nor even a bird, was to be seen; it was a 
miserable, damp, lifeless country. We were on elevated 
ground, and the vaRey of the Somerset was about two miles 
to our north, the river roaring sullenly in its obstructed 
passage, its course marked by the double belt of huge dark 
trees that grew upon its banks. 

My men were naturally outrageous, and they proposed 
that we should return to Patooan, seize the canoes, and 
take provisions by force, as we had been disgracefully 
deceived. The natives had merely deposited us here to 
get us out of the way, and in this spot we might starve. 
Of course I would not countenance the proposal of seizing 
provisions, but I directed my men to search among the 
ruined villages for buried corn, ia company with the 
woman Bacheeta, who, being a native of this country, 
would be up to the ways of the people, and might assist in 
the discovery. 

After some hours passed iu rambling over the black 
ashes of several villages that had been burnt, they dis- 
covered a hollow place, by sounding the earth with a stick, 
and, upon digging, they arrived at a granary of the seed 
known as "tullaboon;" this was a great prize, as, although 



] 50 MISERY AT SHOO A MORU. [Chap. IV. 

mouldy and bitter, it would keep us from starving. The 
women of the party were soon hard at work grinding, 
as many of the necessary stones had been found among 
the ruins. 

Fortunately there were three varieties of plants growing 
wild in great profusion, that, when hoiled, were a good 
substitute for spinach; thus we were rich in vegetables, 
although without a morsel of fat or animal food. Our 
dinner consisted daily of a mess of black porridge of bitter 
mouldy flour, that no English pig would condescend to 
notice, and a large dish of spinach. " Better a dinner of 
herbs where love is," &c. often occurred to me ; but I am 
not sure that I was quite of that opinion after a fortnight's 
grazing upon spinach. 

Tea and coffee were things of the past, the very idea of 
which made our mouths water; but I found a species of 
wild thyme growing in the jungles, and this, when boiled, 
formed a tolerable substitute for tea ; sometimes our men 
procured a little wild honey, which, added to the thyme 
tea, we considered a great luxury. 

This wretched fare, in our exhausted state from fever 
and general effects of climate, so completely disabled us, 
that for nearly two months my wife lay helpless on one 
angarep, and I upon the other ; neither of us could walk. 
The hut was like all in Kamrasi's countiy, a perfect forest 
of thick poles to support the roof (I counted thirty-two) ; 



Chap. IV.] HARD FARE. 



151 



thus, although it was tolerably large, there was but little 
accommodation. These poles we now found very con- 
venient, as we were so weak, that we could not rise from 
bed without hauling by one of the supports. 

We were very nearly dead, and our amusement was a 
childish conversation about the good things in England, 
and my idea of perfect happiness was an English beef- 
steak and a bottle of pale ale ; for such a luxury I would 
most willingly have sold my birthright at that hungry 
moment. We were perfect skeletons ; and it was annoying 
to see how we suffered upon the bad fare, whUe our men 
apparently throve. There were plenty of wild red peppers, 
and the men seemed to enjoy a mixture of porridge and 
legvmies d la sauce piquante. They were astonished at my 
falling away on this food, but they yielded to my argument 
when I suggested that a " Hon would starve where a donkey 
grew fat." I must confess that this state of existence did 
not improve my temper, which, I fear, became nearly as 
bitter as the porridge. My people had a windfall of luck, 
as Saat's ox, that had lingered for a long time, lay down to 
die, and stretching himself out, commenced kicking his last 
kick; the men immediately assisted him by cutting his 
throat, and this supply of beef was a luxury which, even in 
my hungry state, was not the English beefsteak for which 
I sighed ; and I declined the diseased buU. 

The men made several long excursions through the 



152 PREPARATION FOR DEATH. [Chap. IV. 

country to endeavour to purchase provisions, but in two 
months they procured only two kids ; the entire country 
was deserted, owing to the war between Kamrasi and 
Fowooka. Every day the boy Saat and the woman 
Bacheeta sallied out and conversed with the inhabitants of 
the different islands on the river; sometimes, but veiy 
rarely, they returned with a fowl ; such an event caused 
great rejoicing. 

We had now given up aU hope of Gondokoro, and were 
perfectly resigned to our fate ; this, we felt sure, was to be 
buried in Chopi. I wrote instructions in my journal, in 
case of death, and told my headman to be sure to deliver 
my maps, observations, and papers to the English Consul 
at Khartoum ; this was my only care, as I feared that all 
my labour might be lost should I die. I had no fear for 
my wife, as she was quite as bad as I, and if one should 
die, the other would certainly foUow ; in fact, this had 
been agreed upon, lest she should fall into the hands of 
Kamrasi at my death. "We had struggled to win, and I 
thanked God that we had won; if death were to be the 
price, at all events we were at the goal, and we both 
looked upon death rather as a pleasure, as affording rest; 
there would be no more suffering; no fever; no long 
journey before us, that in our weak state was an infliction; 
the only wish was to lay down the burthen. 

Curious is the warfare between the animal instincts and 



Chap. IV.] KAMRASPS TACTICS. 153 

the mind ! Death woiild have been a release that I would 
have courted, but I should have Uked that one " English 
beefsteak and pale ale " before I died ! During our misery 
of constant fever and starvation at Shooa Moru, insult had 
been added to injury. There was no doubt that we had 
been thus deserted by Kamrasi's orders, as every seven or 
eight days one of his chiefs arrived, and told me that the 
king was with his army only four days' march from me, 
and that he was preparing to attack Fowooka, but that 
he wished me to join him, as with my fourteen guns we 
should win a great victory. This treacherous conduct, 
after Ms promise to forward me without delay to Shooa, 
enraged me exceedingly. We had lost the boats at Gondo- 
koro, and we were now nailed to the country for another 
year, should we live, which was not likely ; not only had 
the brutal king thus deceived us, but he was deliberately 
starving us into conditions, his aim being that my men 
should assist him against his enemy. At one time the old 
enemy tempted me sorely to join Fowooka agaiust Kamrasi; 
but, discarding the idea, generated in a foment of passion, 
I determined to resist his proposals to the last. It was 
perfectly true that the king was withia thirty nules of us, 
that he was aware of our misery ; and he made use of our 
extremity to force us to become his allies. 

After more than two months passed iq this distress it 
became evident that something must be done; I sent my 



154 THE BAIT TAKES. [Chap. IV. 

headman, or vakeel, and one man, with a native as a guide 
(that Saat and Bacheeta had procured from an island), 
¦with instructions to go direct to Kamrasi, to abuse him 
thoroughly in my name for having thus treated us, and 
teU him that I was much insulted at his treating with me 
through a third party in proposing an alliance. My vakeel 
was to explain that I was a much more powerful chief 
than Kamrasi, and that if he required my alliance, he 
must treat with me in person, and immediately send fifty 
men to transport my wife, myself, and effects to his camp, 
where we might, in a personal interview, come to terms. 

I told my vakeel to return to me with the fifty men, and 
to he sure to bring from Kamrasi some token by which I 
should know that he had actually seen him. The vakeel 
and Yaseen started. 

After some days, the absconded guide, Eabonga, ap- 
peared with a number of men, but without either my 
vakeel or Yaseen. He carried with him a small gourd 
bottle, carefully stopped; this he broke, and extracted 
from the inside two pieces of printed paper, that Kamrasi 
had sent to me in reply. 

On examining the papers, I found them to be portions 
of the English .Church Service translated into (I think) the 
" Kisiiahili " language, by Dr. Krapf ! There were many 
notes in pencil on the margin, written in English, as trans- 
lations of words in the text. It quickly occurred to me 



Chap. IV.] WE ARB CARRIED TO THE KINO'S CAMP. 155 

that Speke must have given tMs book to Kamrasi on Hs 
arrival from Zanzibar, and that he now extracted the 
leaves, and sent them to me as the token I had demanded 
to show that my message had been delivered to him. 

Eabonga made a lame excuse for his previous desertion ; 
he delivered a thin ox that Kamrasi had sent me, and he 
declared that his orders were, that he should take my 
whole party immediately to Kamrasi, as he was anxious 
that we should attack Fowooka without loss of time ; we 
were positively to start on the following morning ! My 
bait had taken ! and we should escape from this frightful 
spot, Shooa Moru. 

On the following morning we were carried in our litters 
by a number of men. The ox had been killed, the whole 
party had revelled in good food, and a supply sufficient 
for the journey was taken by my men. 

Without inflicting the tedium of the journey upon the 
reader, it will be sufficient to say that the country was the 
same as usual, being a vast park overgrown with immense 
grass. Every day the porters bolted, and we were left 
deserted at the charred ruins of various villages that had 
been plundered by Fowooka's people. It poured with 
rain ; there was no cover, as all the huts had been burnt, 
and we were stricken with severe fever daily. However, 
after five days of absurdly slow marching, the roar of the 
rapids being'- distinctly audible at night, we arrived one 



156 REJOIN TEE TURKS' DETACHMENT. [Chap. IV. 

morning at a deserted camp of about 3,000 huts, which 
were just being ignited by several natives. This had 
been Kamrasi's head-quarteis, ¦which he had quitted, and 
according to native custom it was to be destroyed by fire. 
It was reported, that the king had removed to another 
position within an hour's march, and that he had con- 
structed a new camp. Although throughout the journey 
from Shooa Mora the country had been excessively wild 
and uncultivated, this neighbourhood was a mass of 
extensive plantaiu groves and burnt villages, but every 
plantaia-tree had been cut through the middle and 
recklessly destroyed. This destruction had been perpe- 
trated by Fowooka's people, who had invaded the country, 
but had retreated on the advance of Kamrasi's army. 

After winding through dense jungles of bamboos and 
interminable groves of destroyed plantains, we perceived 
the tops of a number of grass huts appearing among the 
trees. My men now begged to be allowed to fire a salute, 
as it was reported that the ten men of Ibrahim's party 
who had been left as hostages were quartered at this 
village with Kamrasi. Hardly had the firing commenced, 
when it was immediately replied to by the Turks from 
their camp, who, upon our approach, came out to meet us 
with great manifestations of delight and wonder at our 
having accomplished our long and difficult voyage. 

My vakeel and Yaseen were the first to meet us, with 



Chap. IV.] THEIR WELCOME. 157 

an apology that severe fever had compelled theia to 
remain in camp instead of returning to Shooa Moru 
according to my orders, but they had delivered my 
message to Kamrasi, who had, as I had supposed, sent 
two leaves out of a hook Speke had given him, as a 
reply. An immense amoimt of news had to be exchanged 
between my men and those of Ibrahim; they had quite 
given us up for lost, until they heard that we were at 
Shooa Morn. A report had reached them that my wife 
was dead, and that I had died a few days later. A great 
amount of kissing and embracing took place, Arab fashion, 
between the two parties ; and they all came to kiss my 
hand and that of my wife, with the exclamation, that 
" By Allah, no woman in the world had a heart so tough 
as to dare to face what she had gone through." " El hamd 
el Illah ! El hamd el Ulah bel salaam ! " (" Thank God- 
be grateful to God "), was exclaimed on aU sides by the 
swarthy throng of brigands who pressed round us, really 
glad to welcome us back again ; and I could not help 
thinking of the difference in their manner now and 
fourteen months ago, when they had attempted to drive us 
back from Gondokoro. 

On entering the village I found a hut prepared for me 
by the orders of my vakeel : it was very small, and I 
immediately ordered a fence and courtyard to be con- 
structed. There were great numbers of natives, and a 



158 KAMRASI SEEKS MT ALLIANCE. [Chap. IV. 

crowd of noisy fellows pressed around us that were only- 
dispersed by a liberal allowance of the stick, well laid 
on by the Turks, who were not quite so mild in 
their ways as my people. A fat ox was immediately 
slaughtered by the vakeel commandiug the Turks' party, 
and a great feast was soon in preparation, as our people 
were determined to fraternize. 

Hardly were we seated in our hut, when my vakeel 
announced that Kamrasi had arrived to pay me a visit. 
In a few minutes he was ushered into the hut. Far from 
beiug abashed, he entered with a loud laugh totally 
different to his former dignified manner. "Well, here 
you are at last!" he exclaimed. Apparently highly 
amused with our wretched appearance, he continued, 
" So you have been to the M'wootan N'zig^ ! well, you 
don't look much the better for it ; why, I should not have 
known you ! ha, ha, ha ! " I was not ia a humour to 
enjoy his attempts at facetiousness ; I therefore told him, 
that he had behaved disgracefully and meanly, and that I 
should publish his character among the adjoining tribes 
as below that of the most petty chief that I had ever 
seen. " Never mind," he replied, " it's all over now ; you 
really are thin, both of you ;-^it was your own fault ; ¦ why 
did you not agree to fight Fowooka? Tou should have 
been supplied with fat cows and milk and butter, had 
you behaved well. I will have my men ready to 



Chap. IV.] DBCHPTION OF K'JMRASI. 159 

^.ttack Fowooka to-morrow ; — the Turks have ten men ; 
you have thirteen ; — thirteen and ten make twenty-three ; 
— you shall be carried if you can't walk, and we will give 
Powooka no chance — he must be killed — only kill him, 
and MY BEOTHEE will give you half of his kingdom." He 
continued, "You shall have supplies to-morrow; I will 
go to my hrother, who is the great M'Kamma Kamrasi, 
and he will send you all you require. I am a little man, 
he is a big one ; I have nothing ; he has everything, and 
he longs to see you ; you must go to him directly, he lives 
close by." I hardly knew whether he was drunk or sober 
— "my brother the great M'Kamma Kamrasi!" I felt 
bewildered with astonishment : then, " If you are not 
Kamrasi, pray who are you ?" I asked. " Who am I ? " he 
replied, " ha, ha, ha ! that's very good ; who am I ? — why, 
I am M'Gambi, the brother of Kamrasi, — I am the younger 
brother, but he is the King." 

The deceit of this country was incredible — I had 
positively never seen the real Kamrasi up to this moment, 
and this man M'Gambi now confessed to having imper- 
sonated the king his brother, as Kamrasi was afraid that 
I might be in league with Debono's people to murder him, 
and therefore he had ordered his brother M'Gambi to act 
the king. 

I now remembered, that the woman Bacheeta had on 
several occasions during the journey told us that the 



160 IPQAMBI HAS IMPERSONATED THE KING. [Chap. IV, 

Kamrasi we had seen was not the true M'Kamma Kamrasi ; 
but at the time I had paid little attention to her, as she 
was constantly grumbling, and I imagined that this was 
merely said in ill temper, referring to her murdered master 
Sali as the rightful king. 

I called the vakeel of the Turks, Eddrees : he said, that 
he also had heard long since that M'Gambi was not 
Kamrasi as we had all supposed, but that he had never 
seen the great king, as M'Gambi had always acted as 
viceroy; he confirmed the accounts I had just received, 
that the real Kamrasi was not far from this village, the 
name of which was " Kisoona." I told- M'Gambi that I 
did not wish to see his brother the king, as I should 
perhaps be again deceived and be introduced to some 
impostor like himself; and that as I did not choose to be 
made a fool of, I should decline the introduction. This 
distressed him exceedingly ; he said, that the " king was 
really so great a man that he, his own brother, dared not 
sit on a stool in his presence, and that he had only kept in 
retirement as a matter of precaution, as Debono's people 
had allied themselves with his enemy Eionga in the pre- 
ceding year, and he dreaded treachery." I laughed con- 
temptuously at M'Gambi, telling him that if a woman 
like my wife dared to trust herself far from her own 
country among such savages as Kamrasi's people, their 
king must be weaker than a woman if he dare not show 



Chap. IV.] THE REAL KAMBASI. 161 

himself in his own territory. I concluded hy saying, that 
I should not go to see Kamrasi, but that he should come 
to visit me. M'Gambi promised to send a good cow on 
the following morning, as we had not tasted milk for some 
months, and we were in great want of strengthening food. 
He took his leave, having received a small present of 
minute heads of various colours. 

I could not help wondering at the curious combination 
of pride and abject cowardice that had been displayed by 
the redoubted Kamrasi ever since our first entrance to his 
territory. Speke when at Gondokoro had told me how 
he had been kept waiting for fifteen days before the king 
had condescended to see him. I now understood that this 
delay had been occasioned more by fear than pride, and 
that, in his cowardice, the king fell back upon his 
dignity as an excuse for absenting himself. 

With the' addition of the Turks' party we were now 
twenty-four armed men. Although they had not seen the 
real king Kamrasi, they had been well treated since 
Ibrahim's departure, having received each a present of 
a young slave girl as a wife, while, as a distinguishing 
mark of royal favour, the vakeel Eddrees had received 
two wives instead of one ; they had also received regular 
supplies of flour and beef— the latter in the shape of a 
fat ox presented every seventh day, together with a liberal 
supply of plantain cider. 

VOL. n. M 



162 FBMFSB SEEING MEAT TO A KING. [Chap. IV. 

On the following morning after my arrival at Kisoona, 
M'Gambi appeared, beseeching me to go and visit the 
king. I replied that " I was hungry and weak from want 
of food, and that I wanted to see meat, and not the man 
who had starved me." In the afternoon a beautiful cow 
appeared with her young calf, also a fat sheep, and two 
pots of plantain cider, as a present from Kamrasi. That 
evening we revelled in mOk, a luxury that we had not 
tasted for some months. The cow gave such a quantity 
that we looked forward to the establishment of a dairy, 
and already contemplated cheese-making. I sent the king 
a present of a pound of powder in canister, a box of caps, 
and a variety of trifles, explaining that I was quite out 
of stores and presents, as I had been kept so long in his 
country that I was reduced to beggary, as I had expected 
to have returned to my own country long before this. 

In the evening, M'Gambi appeared with a message from 
the kiQg, saying that I was his greatest friend, and that 
he would not think of taking anything from me, as he 
was sure that I must be hard up ; that he desfred nothing, 
but would be much obliged if I would give him the 
"little double rifle that I always carried, and my watch 
and compass!" He wanted ''nothing,'' only my Fletcher 
rifle, that I would as soon have parted with as the bone of 
my arm : and these three articles were the same for which 
I had been so pertinaciously bored before my departure 



Chap. IV.] THE BEGGING ENVOY. 163 

from M'rooli. It was of no use to be wrotli ; I tlierefore 
quietly replied that " I sliould not give them, as Kamrasi 
had faded ia his promise to forward me to Shooa; but 
that I rec[uired no presents from him, as he always 
expected a thousandfold in return." M'Gambi said that 
all would be right if I would only agree to pay the king 
a visit. I objected to this, as I told him the king, his 
brother, did not want to see me, but only to observe what 
I had, in order to beg for all that he saw. He appeared 
much hurt, and assured me that he would be himself 
responsible that nothing of the kind should happen, and 
that he merely begged as a favour thai I would visit the 
king on the following morniag, and that people should 
be ready to carry me if I were unable to walk. Accord- 
ingly I arranged to be carried to Kamrasi's camp at 
about 8 A.M. 

At the hour appointed M'Gambi appeared, with a great 
crowd of natives. My clothes were in rags, — and as 
personal appearance has a certaia effect, even ia Central 
Africa, I determined to present myseK to the king in as 
favourable a light as possible. I happened to possess a 
full-dress Highland suit that I had worn when I lived in 
Perthshire many years ago ; this I had treasured as ser- 
viceable upon an occasion like the present ;— accordingly 
I was q.uickly attired in kilt, sporran, and Glengarry 
bonnet, and to the utter amazement of the crowd, the 

m2 



164 GABRIED TO THE GAMP OF KAMRASI. [Chap. IV. 

ragged-looking object that had arrived in Kisoona now 
issued from the ohscure hut, with plaid and kilt of Athole 
tartan. A general shout of exclamation arose from the 
assembled crowd ; and taking my seat upon an angarep, I 
was immediately shouldered by a number of men, and 
attended by ten of my people as escort, I was carried 
towards the camp of the great Kamrasi. 

In about half an hour we arrived. The camp, composed 
of grass huts, extended over a large extent of ground, and 
the approach was perfectly black with the throng that 
crowded to meet me. Women, children, dogs, and men aU 
thronged at the entrance of the street that led to Kam- 
rasi's residence. Pushing our way through this inquisitive 
multitude, we continued through the camp until at length 
we reached the dweUing of the king. Halting for the 
moment, a message was immediately received that we 
should proceed ; we accordingly entered through a narrow 
passage between high reed fences, and I found myself in 
the presence of the actual king of TJnyoro, Kannasi. He 
was sitting in a kind of porch in front of a hut, and upon 
seeing me he hardly condescended to look at me for more 
than a moment; he then turned to his attendants and 
made some remark that appeared to amuse them, as they 
aU grinned as little men are wont to do when a great man 
makes a bad joke. 

I had ordered one of my men to carry my stool ; I was 



Chap. IV.] INTJROBUCTION TO THE REAL KINO. 165 

determined not to sit upon the earth, as the king would 
glory in my humiliation. M'Gambi, his brother, who had 
formerly played the part of king, now sat upon the ground 
a few feet from Kamrasi, who was seated upon the same 
stool of copper that M'Gambi had used when I first saw 
him at M'rooli. Several of his chiefs also sat upon the 
straw with which the porch was littered. I made a 
" salaam," and took my seat upon my stooL Not a word 
passed between us for about five minutes, during which 
time the king eyed me most attentively, and made various 
remarks to the chiefs who were present ; at length he 
asked me why I had not been to see him before? I 
replied, " Because I had been starved in his country, and 
I was too weak to walk." He said — I should soon be 
strong, as he would now give me a good supply of food, 
but that he could not send provisions to Shooa Moru, 
as Fowooka held that country. Without replying to this 
wretched excuse for his neglect, I merely told him that 
I was happy to have seen him before my departure, as 
I was not aware until recently that I had been duped 
by M'Gambi. He answered me very coolly, saying that 
although I had not seen him he had nevertheless seen 
me, as he was among the crowd of native escort on the 
day that we left M'rooli. Thus he had watched our start 
at the very place where his brother M'Gambi had imper- 
sonated the king. 



166 BESCBIPTION OF KAMRASI. [Chap. IV. 

Kamrasi was a remarkably fine man, tall and well 
proportioned, with a handsome face of a dark brown 
colour, but a peculiarly sinister expression ; lie was beau- 
tifully clean, and instead of wearing the bark cloth 
common among the people, he was dressed in a fine 
mantle of black and white goat-skins, as soft as chamois 
leather. His people sat on the ground at some distance 
from his throne; when they approached to address him 
on any subject they crawled upon their hands and knees 
to his feet, and touched the ground with their foreheads. 

True to his natural instincts, the king commenced 
begging, and being much struck with the Highland cos- 
tume, he demanded it as a proof of friendship, saying, 
that if I refused I could not be his friend. The watch, 
compass, and double Fletcher rifle were asked for in their 
turn, aU of which I refused to give him. He appeared 
much annoyed, therefore I presented him with a pound 
canister of powder, a box of caps, and a few bullets. He 
replied, " What's the use of the ammunition if you won't 
give me your rifle?" I explained that I had already 
given him a gun, and that he had a rifle of Speke's. 
Disgusted with his importunity I rose to depart, telling 
him that " I should not return to visit him, as I did not 
believe he was the real Kamrasi. I had heard that 
Kamrasi was a great king, but that he was a mere beggar, 
and was doubtless an impostor, like M'Gambi." At this 



Chap. IV.] THU NATIVE COURT. 167 

he seemed highly amused, and hegged me not to leave so 
suddenly, as he could not permit me to depart empty 
handed. He then gave certain orders to his people, and 
after a Little delay, two loads of flour arrived, together 
with a goat and two jars of sour plantain cider. These 
presents he ordered to be forwarded to Kisoona. I rose to 
take leave, but the crowd, eager to see what was goLag 
forward, pressed closely upon the entrance of the approach; 
seeiag which, the king gave certain orders, and imme- 
diately four or five men with long heavy bludgeons 
rushed at the mob and belaboured them right and left, 
putting the mass to flight pile-mele through the narrow 
lanes of the camp. 

I was then carried back to my camp at Kisoona, where 
I was received by a great crowd of people. 



CHAPTEE V. 

AT HOME IN KISOONJ. 

TT appeared that Kisoona was to be head-quarters until I 
should haye an opportunity of quitting the country 
for Shooa. Therefore I constructed a comfortable little 
hut surrounded by a courtyard strongly fenced, in which 
I arranged a Eakooba, or open shed, in which to sit during 
the hottest hours of the day. 

My cow that I had received from Kamrasi gave plenty 
of milk, and every second day we were enabled to make a 
small cheese about the size of a six-pound cannon-shot. 
The abundance of milk made a rapid change in our 
appearance; and Kisoona, although a place of complete 
" ennui," was a delightful change after the privations of the 
last four months. Every week the king sent me an ox and 
a quantity of flour for myself and people, and the whole 
party grew fat. We used the milk native fashion, never 
drinking it until curdled ; — taken in this form it will 
agree with the most delicate stomach, but if used fresh in 
large quantities it induces biliousness. The young girls of 



Chap. V.] STSTEM pi VATTENINO. 169 

thirteen and fourteen that are the wives of the king are 
not appreciated unless extremely fat — they are subjected 
to a regular system of fattening in order to increase their 
charms ; thus at an early age they are compelled to drink 
daily about a gallon of curded milk, the swallowing of 
which is frequently enforced by the whip ; the result is 
extreme obesity. In hot climates nulk will curdle in two 
or three hours if placed in a vessel that has previously 
contained sour milk. When curdled, it should be well 
beaten together until it assumes the appearance of cream ; 
in this state, if seasoned with a little salt, it is most 
nourishing and easy of digestion. The Arabs invariably 
use it in this manner, and improve it by the addition of 
red pepper. The natives of Unyoro wiU not eat red 
pepper, as they believe that men and women become barren 
by its use. 

Although the fever had so completely taken possession 
of me that I was subject to an attack almost daily, the 
milk fattened me extremely, and kept up my strength, 
which otherwise must have failed. The change from star- 
vation to good food produced a marvellous effect. Curious 
as it may appear, although we were m a land of plantains, 
the ripe fruit was in the greatest scarcity. The natives in- 
variably eat them unripe, the green fruit when boiled being 
a fair substitute for potatoes— the ripe plantains were used 
for brewing plantain cider, but they were never eaten. 



170 NATIVE PREPARATIONS OF FOOD. [Chap. V. 

The method of cider-making was simple. The fruit was 
buried in a deep hole and covered with straw and earth ; — 
at the expiration of about eight days the green plantains 
thus interred had become ripe ;— they were then peeled 
and pulped within a large wooden trough resembling a 
canoe ; this was filled with water, and the pulp being weU 
mashed and stirred, it was left to ferment for two days, 
after which time it was fit to drink. 

Throughout the country of Unyoro, plantains in various 
forms were the staple article of food, upon which the 
inhabitants placed more dependence than upon all other 
crops. The green plantains were not only used as potatoes, 
but when peeled they were cut in thin slices and dried in 
the sun until-crisp ; in this state they were stored in the 
granaries, and when required for use they were boiled into 
a pulp and made into a most palatable soup or stew. 
Plour of plantains was remarkably good ; this was made 
by grinding the fruit when dried as described ; it was then, 
as usual with aU other articles in that country, most beau- 
tifully packed in long narrow parcels, either formed of 
plantain bark or of the white interior of rushes worked 
into mats. This bark served as brown paper, but had the 
advantage of being waterproof. The fibre of the plantain 
formed both thread and cord, thus the principal require- 
ments of the natives were supplied by this most useful 
tree. The natives were exceedingly clever in working 



Chap. V.] NATIVE MANUFACTURES. I7I 

braid from the plantain fibre, wHcb was of so fine a texture 
tbat it bad the appearance of a hair chaia ; nor could the 
difference be detected without a close examination. Small 
bags netted with the same twine, were most delicate, and in 
all that was produced in Unyoro there was a remarkably 
good taste displayed in the manufacture. 

The beads most valued were the white opal, the red 
porcelain, and the minute varieties generally used for 
working on screens in England ; these small beads* of 
various colours were much esteemed, and were worked 
iato pretty ornaments, about the shape of a walnut, to be 
worn suspended from the neck. I had a small quantity 
of the latter variety that I presented to Kamrasi, who 
prized them as we should value precious stones. 

Wot only were the natives clever generally ia their 
ideas, but they were exceedingly cunning in their bargains. 
Every morning, shortly after sunrise, men might be heard 
crying their wares throughout the camp — such as, " Tobacco, 
tobacco ; two packets going for either beads or simbis ! " 
(cowrie-sheUs). " Mili to sell for beads or salt ! " " Salt 
to exchange for lance-heads!" "Coffee, coffee, going 
cheap for red beads!" "Butter for five jenettos (red 
beads) a lump ! " 

The butter was invariably packed in a plantain leaf, but 
frequently the package was plastered with cow dung and 
* These' were given to me by Speke at Gondokoro. 



172 KNAVERY OF NATIVE BUTTER DEALERS. [Chap. V. 

clay, wHcli, when dry, formed a hard coating, and pro- 
tected it from the air ; this gave it a bad flavour, and we 
returned it to the dealer as useless. A short time after, he 
returned with fresh butter in a perfectly new green leaf, 
and we were requested to taste it. Being about the size 
and shape of a cocoa-nut, and wrapped carefully in a leaf 
with only the point exposed, I of course tasted from that 
portion, and approving the flavour, the purchase was com- 
pleted. We were fairly cheated, as the butter dealer had 
packed the old rejected butter in a fresh leaf, and had 
placed a small piece of sweet butter on the top as a tasting 
point. They constantly attempted this trick. 

As retailers they took extraordinary pains to divide 
everything into minimum packets, which they sold for a 
few beads, always declaring that they had only one packet 
to dispose of, but immediately producing another when 
that was sold. This method of deaUng was exceedingly 
troublesome, as it was difficult to obtain supplies in any 
quantity. My only resource was to send Saat to market 
daily to purchase all he could find, and he usually returned 
after some hours' absence with a basket containing coffee, 
tobacco, and butter. 

We were comfortably settled at Kisoona, and the luxury 
of coflfee after so long an abstinence was a perfect blessing. 
Nevertheless, in spite of good food, I was a martyr to fever, 
which attacked me daily at about 2 p.m. and continued 



Chap. V.] VAPOUR BATH FOR mVBR. 173 

until sunset. Being without quinine I tried vapour baths, 
and by the recommendation of one of the Turks I pounded 
and boiled a quantity of the leaves of the castor-oil plant 
in a large pot containing about four gallons : this plant 
was in great abundance. Every morning I arranged a 
bath by sitting in a blanket, thus forming a kind of tent, 
with the pot of boiling water beneath my stooL Half an 
hour passed in this intense heat produced a most profuse 
perspiration, and from the commencement of the vapour 
system the attacks of fever moderated both in violence 
and frequency. In about a fortnight, the complaint 
had so much abated that my spirits rose in equal pro- 
portion, and, although weak, I had no mortal fear of my 
old enemy. 

The king, Kamrasi, had supplied me with provisions, 
but I was troubled daily by messengers who requested me 
to appear before him to make arrangements for the pro- 
posed attack upon Eionga and Fowooka. My excuse for 
non-attendance was my weak state ; but Kamrasi deter- 
mined not to be evaded, and one day his headman Quonga 
announced that the king would pay me a visit on the 
following morning. Although I had but little remaining 
from my stock of baggage except the guns, ammunition, 
and astronomical instruments, I was obliged to hide every- 
thing underneath the beds, lest the avaricious eyes of 
Kamrasi should detect a " want." True to his appoint- 



174 STATE VISIT FROM THE KING. [Ohaf. V. 

ment, he appeared with numerous attendants, and was 
ushered into my little hut. I had a very rude but service- 
able arm-chair that one of my men had constructed ; in 
this the king was invited to sit. Hardly was he seated, 
when he leant back, stretched out his legs, and making 
some remark to his attendants concerning his personal 
comfort, he asked for the chair as a present. I promised 
to have one made for him immediately. This being 
arranged, he surveyed the barren little hut, vainly en- 
deavouring to fix his eyes upon something that he could 
demand ; but so fruitless was his search, that he laughingly 
turned to his people and said, "How was it that they 
wanted so many porters, if they had nothing to carry?" 
My interpreter explained, that many things had been 
spoiled during the storms on the lake, and had been left 
behind ; that our provisions had long since been consumed, 
and that our clothes were worn out — thus we had nothing 
left but a few beads. "New varieties, no doubt,'' he 
replied ; " give me all that you have of the small blue and 
the large red ! " We had carefully hidden the main stock, 
and a few had been arranged in bags to be produced as 
the occasion might require ; these were now unpacked by 
the boy Saat and laid before the king. I told him to make 
his choice, which he did precisely as I had anticipated, by 
makiQg presents to his surrounding friends out of my 
stock, and monopolizing the remainder for his share : the 



Chap. V.] THB KING IN LOVE WITH A TOOTH-COMB. ] 75 

division of the portions among his people was a modest 
way of taking the whole, as he would immediately demand 
their return upon quitting my hut. IsTo sooner were the 
beads secured than he repeated the original demand for 
my watch and the ISTo. 24 double rifle ; these I resolutely 
refused. He then requested permission to see the con- 
tents of a few of the baskets and bags that formed our 
worn-out luggage. There was nothing that took his fancy 
except needles, thread, lancets, medicines, and a small 
tooth-comb ; the latter interested him exceedingly, as I 
explained that the object of the Turks in collecting ivory 
was to sell it to Europeans who manufactured it into many 
articles, among which were small tooth-combs such as he 
then examiued. He could not understand how the teeth 
could be so finely cut. Upon the use of the comb being 
explained, he immediately attempted to practise upon his 
woolly head ; failing in the operation, he adapted the in- 
strument to a different purpose, and commenced scratching 
beneath the wool most vigorously : the effect being satis- 
factory, he at once demanded the comb, which was handed 
to each of the surrounding chiefs, all of whom had a trial 
of its properties, and, every head having been scratched, it 
was returned to the king, who handed it to Quonga, the 
headman that received his presents. So complete was the 
success, of the comb that he proposed to send me one of 
the largest elephant's tusks, which I was to take to England 



176 EFFECT OF CONCAVE MIRROR. [Chap. V. 

and cut into as many small tootli-combs as it wotild pro- 
duce for himself and his chiefs. 

The lancets were next admired, and were declared to be 
adniirahly adapted for paring his nails — ^they were there- 
fore presented to him. Then came the investigation of the 
medicine chest, and every bottle was applied to his nose, 
and a small quantity of the contents was requested. On 
the properties of tartar-emetic being explained, he proposed 
to swaUow a dose immediately, as he had been suffering 
from headache, but as he was some distance from home 
I advised him to postpone the dose until his return; I 
accordingly made up about a dozen powders, one of which 
(three grains) he was to take that evening. 

The concave mirror, our last looking-glass, was then dis- 
covered; the distortion of face it produced was a great 
amusement, and after it had been repeatedly handed round, 
it was added to his presents. More gunpowder was de- 
manded, and a pound canister and a box of caps were 
presented to him, but I positively refused the desired 
bullets. 

To change the conversation, I inquired whether he or 
any of his people knew from whence their race originated; 
as their language and appearance were totally different to 
the tribes that I had visited from the north. He told me 
that he knew his grandfather, whose name was Cherry- 
bambi, but that he knew nothing of the history of the 



Chap. V.] ATTEMPTS AT ANCIBNT HISTORY. I77 

country, except that it had formerly heen a very extensive 
kingdom, and that Uganda and Utumbi had been com- 
prised in the country of Elitwara with Unyoro and Chopi. 
The kingdom of Kitwara extended from the frontier of 
Karagwd to the Victoria Nile at Magungo, and Karuma, 
hounded on all sides but the south by that river and the 
Victoria and the Albert lakes ; the latter lake forming the 
western frontier. During the reign of Cherrybambi, the 
province of Utumbi revolted, and not only became inde- 
pendent, but drove Cherrybambi from Uganda across the 
Kafoor river to Unyoro. This revolt continued until Cher- 
rybambi's death, when the father of M't^se (the present ¦ 
king of Uganda), who was a native of Utumbi, attacked 
and conquered Uganda and became king. From that time 
there has been continual war between Uganda and Unyoro, 
or, as Kamrasi calls his kingdom, Kitwara, that being the 
ancient name: to the present day, M'tdse, the king of 
Uganda, is one of his greatest enemies. It was in vain 
that I attempted to trace his descent from the Gallas ; 
both upon this and other occasions he and his people 
denied all knowledge of their ancient history. 

He informed me that Chopi had also revolted after the 
death of Cherrybambi, and that he had reconquered it only 
ten or twelve years ago, but that even now the natives 
were not to be trusted, as many had leagued with Fowooka 
and Eionga, whose desire was to annex Chopi and to form 

VOL. 11. N 



178 KAMRASrS BBQUEST. [Chap. V. 

a separate kingdom: these chiefs had possession of the 
river islands, which strongholds it was impossible to attack 
without guns, as the rapids were so dangerous that canoes 
could only approach by a certain passage. 

Kamrasi expressed his determination to kill bqth of the 
refractory chiefs, as he would have no rest during their 
lives ; he disclaimed all relationship with Eionga, who had 
been represented to Speke as his brother, and he con- 
cluded by requesting me to assist him in an attack upon 
the river islands, promising that if I should kiQ Powooka 
and Eionga he would give nie a large portion of his 
territory. 

He suggested that I should stand upon a high cliff that 
commanded Fowooka's island; from that point I could 
pick off not only the chief, but all his people, by firing 
steadily with the little double 24 rifle ; he continued even 
farther, that if I were too ill to go myself, I should lend 
him my little Fletcher 24 rifle, give him my men to assist 
his army, and he would pick off Eionga himself from the 
cliff above the river : this was his mild way of securing 
the rifle which he had coveted ever since my arrival in his 
country. I told him plainly that I could not mix myself 
up with his quarrels ; that I travelled with only one object, 
of doing good, and that I would harm no one unless in 
self-defence, therefore I could not be the aggressor ; but that 
should Fowooka and Eionga attack his position I should 



Chap. V.] KAMRASI AFFRONTJED. 179 

be most happy to lend my aid to repel them. Far from 
appreciating, my ideas of fair play, he immediately rose 
from his chair, and without taking leave he walked out of 
the hut, attended by his people. 

The next morning I heard that he had considered himself 
poisoned by the tartar-emetic, but that he was now well. 

From that day I received no supplies for myself or 
people, as the king was affronted. A week passed away, 
and I was obliged to purchase meat and ilour from Eddrees, 
the lieutenant who commanded the Turks' party of nine 
men. I gave this man a double-barrelled gun, and he 
behaved well. 

One day I was lying upon my bed with a fit of ague, 
when it was reported that four men had arrived from 
M'tdse, the Idng of Uganda, who wished to see me. 

Unfortunately my vakeel delayed the men for so long 
that they departed, promising to return again, having 
obtained from my people all information concerning me : 
these were spies from the king of Uganda, whose object at 
that time was unknown to us. 

The weeks passed slowly at Kisoona, as there was a 
tedious monotony in the lack of incident ; — every day was 
a repetition of the preceding. My time was passed in 
keeping a regiilar journal ; mapping ; and in writing letters 
to friends in England, although there was no communi- 
cation. This task afforded the greatest pleasure, as I could 

n2 



180 SUDDEN INVASION OF THE COUNTRT. [Chap. V. 

thus converse in imagination with those far away. The 
thought frequently occurred to me that they might no 
longer exist, and that the separation of years might be the 
parting for ever ; nevertheless there was a melancholy satis- 
faction at ihus blankly corresponding with those whom I 
had loved in former years. Thus the time slowly ebbed 
away ; the maps were perfected ; information that I had 
received was confirmed by the repeated examination of 
natives ; and a few little black children who were allowed 
to run about our courtyard like so many puppies afforded 
a study of the African savage in embryo. This monotony 
was shortly disturbed. 

At about 9 P.M. one night we were suddenly disturbed 
by a tremendous din — hundreds of nogaras were beating, 
horns blowing, and natives screaming in all directions. 
I immediately jumped out of bed, and buckling on my 
belt I took my rifle and left the hut. The village was 
alive with people all dressed for war, and bearded with 
cows' tails, dancing and rushing about with shields and 
spears, attacking imaginary enemies. Bacheeta informed 
me that Towooka's people had crossed the Nile and were 
within three hours' march of Kisoona, accompanied by a 
hundred and fifty of Debono's trading party, the same that 
had formerly attacked Kamrasi in the preceding year in 
company with Eionga's people. It was reported, that 
having crossed the Nile they were marching direct on 



Chap. V.] ALARM AND COWARDICE OF KAMRASI. 181 

Kisoona, with the intention of attacking the country and 
of killing Kamrasi. M'Gambi, the brother of Kamrasi, 
whose hut was only twenty yards distant, immediately 
came to me with the news : he was in a state of great 
alarm, and was determined to run off to the king imme- 
diately to recommend his flight. After some time I suc- 
. ceeded in convincing him that this was unnecessary, and 
that I might be of great service in this dilemma if Kam- 
rasi would come personally to me early on the following 
morning. 

The sun had just risen, when the king unceremoniously 
marched into my hut; — he was no longer the dignified 
monarch of Kitwara clothed in a beautiful mantle of fine 
skins, but he wore nothing but a short kilt of blue baize 
that Speke had given him, and a scarf thrown across his 
shoulders. He was dreadfully alarmed, and could hardly 
be persuaded to leave his weapons outside the door, ac- 
cording to the custom of the country — these were three 
lances and a double-barrelled rifle that had been given him 
by Speke. I was much amused at his trepidation, and 
observing the curious change in his costume, I compli- 
mented him upon the practical cut of his dress, that was 
better adapted for fighting than the long and cumbrous 
mantle. "Fighting!" he exclaimed, with the horror of 
" Bob Acres," " I am not going to fight ! I have dressed 
lightly to be able to run quickly. I mean to run away ! 



182 THE BRITISH FLAG PROTECTS UNTORO. [Chap. V. 

Who can fight against guns? Those people have one 
hundred and fifty guns ; you must run with me ; we can 
do nothing against them; you have only thirteen men; 
Eddrees has only ten ; what can twenty-three do against a 
hundred and fifty ? Pack up your things and run ; we 
must be off into the high grass and hide at once ; the 
enemy is expected every moment ! " 

I never saw a man in such a deplorable state of abject 
fright, and I could not help laughing aloud at the miser- 
able coward who represented a kingdom. Calling my 
headman, I ordered him to hoist the English ensign on 
my tall flag-staff in the courtyard. In a few moments the 
old flag was waving in a brisk breeze and floating over my 
little hut. There is something that warms the heart in 
the sight of the Union Jack when thousands of miles away 
from the old country. I now explained to Kamrasi that 
both he and his country were under the protection of that 
flag, which was the emblem of England ; and that so long 
as he 'trusted to me, although I had refused to join him in 
attacking Fowooka, he should see that I was his true ally, 
as I would defend him against all attacks. I told him to 
send a large quantity of supplies into my camp, and to 
procure guides immediately, as I should send some of my 
men without delay to the enemy's camp with a message to 
the vakeel of Debono's party. Slightly reassured by this 
arrangement, he called Quonga, and ordered him to pro- 



Chap. V.] DIPLOMATIC ARRANGEMENT. 183 

cure two of his chiefs to accompany my men. The best of 
his men, Cassav^ appeared immediately ; — this was a 
famous fellow, who had always been civil and anxious to 
do his duty both to his master and to me. I suminoned 
Eddrees, and ordered him to send four of his men with an 
equal number of mine to the camp of Fowooka to make 
a report of the invading force, and to see whether it was 
true that Debono's people were arrived as invaders. In 
half an hour from the receipt of my order, the party 
started; — eight well-armed men accompanied by about 
twenty natives of Kamrasi's with two days' provisions. 
Kisoona was about ten miles from the Victoria Nile. 

At about 5 P.M. on the following day my men returned, 
accompanied by ten men and a choush, or sergeant, of De- 
bono's party; — they had determined to prove whether I 
was actually in the country, as they had received a report 
some months ago that both my wife and I were dead ; — 
they imagined that the men that I had sent to their camp 
were those of the rival party belonging to Ibrahim, who 
wished to drive them out of Kamrasi's country by usiug 
my name. However, they were now undeceived, as the 
first object that met their view was the English flag on 
the high flag-staff, and they were shortly led into my 
courtyard, where they were introduced to me in person. 
They sat in a half-circle around me. 

Assuming great authority, I asked them how they eould 



184 CONPERTSNCE WITH DEBONffS PABTT. [Ohap. V. 

presume to attack a country under the protection of the 
British flag ? I informed them that Unyoro belonged to 
me by right of discovery, and that I had given Ibrahim 
the exclusive right to the produce of that country, on the 
condition that he should do nothing contrary to the will of 
the reigning king, Kamrasi; that Ibrahim had behaved 
well ; that I had been guided to the lake and had returned, 
and that we were now actually fed by the king ; and we 
were suddenly invaded by Turkish subjects iu connexion 
with a hostile tribe, who thus insulted the English flag. I 
explaiued to them that T should not only resist any attack 
that might be made upon Kamrasi, but that I should 
report the whole affair to the Turkish authorities upon my 
return to Khartoum ; and that, should a shot be fired or a 
slave be stolen in Kamrasi's country, the leader of their 
party, Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, would be hanged. 

They replied that they were not aware that I was in the 
country; that they were allies of Fowooka, Eionga, and 
Owine, the three hostile chiefs ; that they had received 
both ivory and slaves from them on condition that they 
should kiU Kamrasi; and that, accordiug to the custom of 
the White Nile trade, they had agreed to these conditions. 
They complained that it was very hard upon them to 
march six days through an uniohabited wilderness between 
their station at Faloro and Fowooka's islands and to return 
empty handed. In reply I told them, that they should 



,Chap. v.] settle avteoritatifmly all questions. 185 

carry a letter from me to their vakeel Mahommed, in 
which I should give him twelve hours from the receipt of 
my order to recross the river with his entire party and 
their allies and quit Kamrasi's country. 

They demurred to tliis alternative : but I shortly settled 
their objections, by ordering my vakeel to write the neceS' 
sary letter, and desiring them to start before sunrise on 
the following morning. Kamrasi had been suspicious that 
I had sent for Mahommed's party to invade him because 
he had kept me starving at Shooa Moru instead of for- 
warding me to Shooa as he had promised. This suspicion 
placed me in an awkward position; I therefore called 
M'Gambi (his brother) in presence of the Turks, and ex- 
plained the whole affair face to face, desiring Mahommed's 
people themselves to explain to him that they would 
retire from the country simply because I commanded 
them to do so, but that, had I not been there, they 
would have attacked him. This they repeated with a very 
bad grace, boasting, at the completion, that, were it not for 
me, they would shoot M'Gambi where he stood at that 
moment. The latter, fuUy aware of their good intentions, 

suddenly disappeared My letter to Mahommed was 

delivered to Suleiman Choush, the leader of his party, and 

I ordered a sheep to be killed for their supper At 

sunrise on the following morning they aU departed, accom- 
panied by six of my men, who were to bring a reply to my 



186 r RETREAT OF THE INVADERS. [Chap. V. 

letter. These people had two donkeys, and just as they 
were stai'ting, a crowd of natives made a rush to gather a 
heap of dung ^ that lay beneath the animals; a great fight 
and tussle took place for the possession of this valuable 
medicine, in the midst of which the donkey lifted up 
his voice and brayed so lustily that the crowd rushed 
away with more eagerness than they had exhibited on 
arriving, alarmed at the savage voice of the unknown 
animal. It appeared that the dung of the donkey rubbed 
upon the skin was supposed to be a cure for rheumatism, 
and that this rare specific was brought from a distant 
country in the East where such animals existed. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

KAMBASI BEGS FOB THE BRITISH FLAG. 

TTAMEASI, tlius freed from his invaders, was almost 
stupefied with, astonishment. He immediately paid 
me a visit, and as he entered the courtyard he stopped to 
look at the flag that was gaily fluttering above him, as 
though it were a talisman. He inquired " why the Turks 
were awed by an apparent trifle." I explained that the 
flag was well known, and might be seen in every part of 
the world ; wherever it was hoisted it was respected, as he 
had just witnessed, even at so great a distance from home 
and unsupported, as in Unyoro. 

Seizing the opportunity, he demanded it, saying, " What 
shall I do when you leave iny country and take that with 
you? These Turks wiU surely return. Give me the flag, 
and they will be afraid to attack me ! " I was obliged to 
explain to him that " the respect for the British ensign had 
uot been gained by running away on the approach of 
danger, as he had proposed on the arrival of the enemy, 
arid that its honour could not be confided to any stranger." 



188 TEE PERTINACIOUS BEGGAR. [Chap. VI. 

True to his uncontrollable instinct of begging, be replied, 
" If you cannot give me the flag, give me at least that little 
double-barrelled rifle that you do not require, as you are 
going home ; then I can defend myself should the Turks 
attack me." 

I was excessively disgusted; — ^he had just been saved 
by my intervention, and his manner of thanking me was 
by begging most pertinaciously for the rifle that I had 
refused him on more than twenty occasions. I requested 
him never to mention the subject again, as I would not 
part with it under any circumstances. Just at this moment 
I heard an uproar outside my gate, and loud screams, 
attended with heavy blows. A man was dragged past the 
entrance of the courtyard bound hand and foot, and was 
immediately cudgelled to death by a crowd of natives. 
This operation continued for some minutes, until his bones ' 
had been thoroughly broken up by the repeated blows of 
clubs. The body was dragged to a grove of plantains, and 
was there left for the vultures, who in a few minutes 
congregated around it. 

It appeared that the offence thus summarily punished 
was the simple act of conversing with some of the natives 
who had attended Mahommed's men from Fowooka's 
island to Kisoona : a conversation with one of the enemy 
was considered high treason, and was punished with un-» 
mediate death. In such cases, where either Kamrasi or his 



Chap. VI.] SUMMARY JUSTICE FOB HIGH TREASON. 189 

brother M'Gambi determined upon the sudden execution 
of a criminal, the signal was given by touching the con- 
demned with the point of a lance : this sign was the order 
that was immediately obeyed by the guards who were in 
attendance, and the culprit was beaten to death upon the 
spot. Sometimes the condemned was touched by a stick 
instead of a lance-point ; this was a signal that he should 
be killed by the lance, and the sentence was carried out 
by thrusting him through the body with numerous spears 
— ^thus the instrument used to slay the criminal was 
always contrary to the sign. 

On the day following this event, drums were beating, 
horns blowing, and crowds of natives were singing and 
dancing in all directions ; pots of plantain cider were dis- 
tributed, and general festivities proclaimed the joy of the 
people at the news that Mahommed's party had retreated 
across the river, according to their agreement with me. 
My men had returned with a letter from Mahommed, 
stating that he was neither afraid of Ibrahim's people nor 
of Kamrasi, but that as I claimed the country, he must 
retire. ISTot only had he retired with his thwarted allies, 
but, disgusted at the failure of his expedition, he had 
quarrelled with Fowooka, and had plundered him of all 
his cattle, together with a number of slaves : this termina- 
tion of the affair had so delighted Kamrasi that he had 
ordered general rejoicings : he killed a number of oxen, 



190 ARBirjL OF irOBT FOB THE TUBKS. [Chap. VI 

and distributed them among his people, and intoxicated 
half the country with presents of maroua, or the plantain 
cider. 

Altogether Mahommed, the vakeel of Debono, had be- 
haved well to me in this affair, although rather shabbily 
to his allies : — he sent me six pieces of soap, and a few 
strings of blue beads and jenettos (red glass beads) as a 
proof that he parted with no ill feeling. 

Hardly were the Turks in retreat when Kamrasi deter- 
mined to give the finishing stroke to his enemies. He 
sent great quantities of ivory to the camp, and one evening 
his people laid about twenty tusks at my door, begguig me 
to count them. I told him to give the ivory to Ibrahim's 
men, as I required nothing ; but that should Ibrahim find 
a large quantity ready for him on his return to the country, 
he would do anything that he might desire. 

A few days later, whole lines of porters arrived, carrying 
enormous elephants' tusks to Eddrees, the vakeel. Early 
the next morning, Kamrasi's entire army arrived laden 
with provisions, each man carrying about 40 lbs. of flour 
ia a package upon his head. The Turks' party of ten men 
joined them, and I heard that an attack was meditated 
upon Eowooka. 

A few days after the expedition had started, the Turks 
and about 1,000 natives returned. Kamrasi was overjoyed; 
they had gained a complete victory, having entirely routed 



Chap. VI.] IBIGHIFUL BARBARITIES UPON CAPTIVES. 19 1 

Fowooka, and not only captured the islands and massacred 
the greater number of the inhabitants, but they had cap- 
tured' all the wives of the rebel chiefs, together with a 
number of inferior slaves, and a herd of goats that had 
fortunately escaped the search of Mahommed's retreating 
party. Fowooka and Owine had escaped by crossing to 
the northern shore, but their power was irretrievably 
ruined, their villages plundered and burned, and their 
women and children captured. 

A number of old women had been taken in the general 
razzia ; these could not walk sufficiently fast to keep up 
with their victors during the return march, they had ac- 
cordingly aU been killed on the road as being cumbersome: 
ia every case they were killed by being beaten on the 
back of the neck with a club. Such were the brutalities 
indulged in. 

On the following morning I went to visit the captives ; 
the women were sitting in an open shed, apparently much 
dejected. I examined the hands of about fourteen, aU. of 
which were well shaped and beautifully soft, proving that 
they were women of high degree who never worked 
laboriously : they were for the most part remarkably good 
looking, of soft and pleasing expression, dark brown com- 
plexion, fine noses, woolly hair, and good figures, precisely 
similar to the general style of women in Chopi and 
Unyoro. 



192 TEH IBMALB CAPTIVES. [Chap. VI. 

Among the captives was a -woman with a most beautiful 
chUd, a boy about twelve months old; all these were 
slaves, and the greater number were in a most pitiable 
state, being perfectly unfit for labour, having been accus- 
tomed to luxury as the women of chiefs of high position. 
Curiously enough, the woman Bacheeta, who had accom- 
panied us to visit these unfortunate captives, now recog- 
nised her former mistress, who was the wife of the 
murdered Sali; she had been captured with the wives 
and daughters of Eionga. Bacheeta immediately fell on 
her knees and crept towards her on all fours, precisely as 
the subjects of Kamrasi were accustomed to approach his 
throng. Sali had held as high a position as Fowooka, and 
had been treacherously killed by Kamrasi at M'rooli in 
the presence of Bacheeta. At that time peace had been 
established between Kamrasi and the three great chiefs, 
who were invited to a conference at M'rooli with a 
treacherous design on the part of the king. Hardly had 
they arrived, when Eionga was seized by Kamrasi's orders, 
and confined in a circular hut with high mud walls and 
no doorway ; the prisoner was hoisted up and lowered 
down through an aperture in the roof. He was condemned 
to be burnt alive on the followiag morning for some 
imaginary offence, while Sali and Fowooka were to be 
either pardoned or murdered, as circumstances might dic- 
tate. Sali was a great friend of Eionga, and determined 



Chap. VI.] TREACHEROUS MURDER OF BALL 193 

to rescue him ; accordingly he plied the guards with drink, 
and engaged them in singing throughout the night on one 
side of the prison, while his men burrowed like rabbits 
beneath the wall on the opposite side, and rescuecf Eionga, 
who escaped. 

Sali showed extreme foUy in remaining at M'rooli, and 
Kamrasi, suspicious of his complicity, immediately ordered 
him to be seized and cut to pieces: he was accordingly 
tied to a stake, and tortured by having Ms limbs cut off 
piecemeal — the hands being first severed at the wrists, and 
the arms at the elbow joints. Bacheeta was an eye-witness 
of this horrible act, and testified to the courage of Sali, 
who, while under the torture, cried out to his friends in 
the crowd, warning them to fly and save themselves, as he 
was a dead man, and they would share his fate should they 
remain. Some escaped, including Fowooka, but many were 
massacred on the spot, and the woman Bacheeta was cap- 
tured by Kamrasi and subsequently sent by him to the 
Turks' camp at Faloro, as already described. From that 
day unremitting warfare was carried on between Kamrasi 
and the island chiefs; the climax was their defeat, and 
the capture of their women, through the assistance of the 
Turks. 

Kamrasi's delight at the victory knew no bounds ; ivory 
poured into the camp, and a hut was actually filled with 
elephants' tusks of the largest size. Eddrees, the leader 
VOL. n. o 



194 DISPUTES WITH KAMRASI. [Chap. VI. 

of the Turks' party, knowing that the victory was gained 
by the aid of Ms guns, refused to give up the captives on 
the demand of the king, claiming them as prisoners he- 
longing to Ibrahim, and declining any arguments upon the 
matter until his master shoidd arrive in the country. 
Kamrasi urged that, although the guns had been of great 
service, no prisoners could have been captured without the 
aid of his canoes, that had been brought by land, dragged 
aU the way from Karuma by hundreds of his people in 
readiness for the attack upon the islands. 

As usual in all cases of dispute, I was to be referee. 
Kamrasi sent his factotum Cassav^ in the night to my hut 
to confer with me without the Turks' knowledge; then 
came his brother, M'Gambi, and at length, after being 
pestered daily by messengers, the great king arrived in 
person. He said that Eddrees was excessively insolent, 
and had threatened to shoot him; that he had insulted 
him when on his throne surrounded by his chiefs, and 
that, had he not been introduced into the country by me, 
he would have killed him and his men on the spot. 

I advised Kamrasi not to talk too big, as he had lately 
seen what only ten guns had effected iu the fight with 
Fowooka, and he might imagine the results that would 
occur should he even hint at hostility, as the large parties 
of Ibrahim and the men of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek would 
immediately unite and destroy both him and his country, 



Chap. VI.] ADVICE TO KAMRASI. I95 

and place Hs now beaten enemy Fowooka upon his throne, 
should a hair of a Turk's head he missing. The gallant 
Kamrasi turned ahnost green at the bare suggestion of this 
possibility. I advised him not to quarrel about straws, 
assuring him, that as I had become responsible for the 
behaviour of the Turks wMle in his country, he need have 
no fear ; but that, on the other hand, he must be both just 
and generous. If he would give them a supply of ivory, 
he might always reckon upon them as valuable aUies ; but 
if he attempted to quarrel, they would assuredly destroy 
his country after my departure. Of course he requested 
me never to think of leaving him, but to take up my 
abode for life in Kitwara, promising me all that I should 
require in addition to a large territory. I replied that the 
climate did not agree with me, and that nothing would 
induce me to remain, but that, as the boats would not 
arrive at Gondokoro for six months (rmtil February), I 
might as well reside with him as anywhere else. At the 
same time, I assured him that his professed friendship for 
me was a delusion, as he only regarded me as a shield 
between him and danger. After a long conversation, I 
succeeded in persuading him not to interfere in matters 
regarding prisoners of war, and to look upon Eddrees only 
as a vakeel until Ibrahim should arrive. He left my hut 
promising not to mention the aifair again; but the next 
day he sent Cassav^ to Eddrees, demanding two of the 

o2 



196 THE TURKS BEGIN TO BULLY. [Chap. VI. 

prettiest -women who were captives. In reply, Eddrees, 
who was an extremely hot-headed fellow, went straight to 
Kamrasi, and spoke to him in a most insulting manner, 
refusing his request. The king immediately rose from his 
seat and turned his back upon the offender. Off rushed 
Eddrees, hoiling with passion, to his camp, summoned his 
men well armed, and marched straight towards the re- 
sidence of Kamrasi to demand satisfaction for the affront. 
Fortunately, my vakeel brought me the intelligence, and I 
sent after him, ordering his immediate return, and declaring 
that no one should break the peace so long as I was in the 
country. In about ten minutes, both he and his men slimk 
back ashamed, mutually accusing each other, as is usual in 
cases of failure. This was an instance of the madness of 
these Turks in assuming the offensive, when, in the event 
of a fight, defeat must have been certain. They were 
positively without ammunition ! having fired away aU 
their cartridges except about five rounds for each man in 
the attack upon Fowooka. Fortunately, this was unknown 
to Kamrasi I had a large supply, as my men were never 
permitted to fire a shot without my special permission. 

The party of Turks were now completely in my power. 
I sent for Eddrees, and also for the king : the latter had 
already heard from the natives of the approach of the 
armed Turks, and of my interference. He refused to 
appear in person, but sent his brother M'Gambi, who 



Chap. VI.] ' COMMUNICATE WITH IBRAHIM. I97 

¦was, as usual, the cat's-paw. M'Gambi was highly 
offended, and declared that Kamrasi had forbidden 
Eddrees ever to appear again in his presence. I insisted 
upon Eddrees apologising, and it was resolved that all 
future negotiations should be carried on through me alone. 
I suggested that it would be advisable for all parties that 
a message should be sent without delay to Ibrahim at 
Shooa, as it was highly necessary that he should be 
present, as I should not continue responsible for the 
conduct of the Turks. "When I arrived in Unyoro it was 
with the intention of visiting the lake, and returning 
immediately. I had been delayed entirely through 
Kamrasi's orders, and I could not be held responsible 
for Eddrees; — my agreement had been to guarantee the 
conduct of the Turks under Ibrahim, who was the com- 
mander of the party. Eddrees, who, being without 
ammunition, was now excessively humble and wished 
for reinforcements, offered to send five men to Shooa, 
provided that Kamrasi would allow some natives to 
accompany them. This did not suit the ideas of the 
suspicious M'Gambi, who suspected that he intended to 
misrepresent Kamrasi's conduct to prejudice Ibrahim 
against him. Accordingly, he declined his offer, but 
agreed to give porters and guides, should I wish to send 
any of my men with a letter. This suited my views 
exactly; Ilonged to quit Kamrasi's country, as Kisoona 



198 DRUNKENNESS AMONG THE UNFOROS. [Chap. VI. 

was a prison of Mgli grass and inaction, and could I only 
return to Shooa, I could pass my time pleasantly in a 
fine open country and healthy climate, with the advantage 
of being five days' march nearer home than Unyoro. 
Accordingly, I instructed my vakeel to write a letter to 
Ibrahim, calling him immediately to Kisoona, informing 
him that a large quantity of ivory was collected, which, 
should Eddrees create a disturbance, would be lost. On 
the following morning, four of my men started for Shooa, 
accompanied by a number of natives. 

Kisoona relapsed into its former monotony — the war 
with Fowooka being over, the natives, free from care, 
¦passed their time in singing and drinking ; it was next to 
impossible to sleep at night, as crowds of people all drunk 
were yelling in chorus, blowing horns and beating drums 
from sunset until morning. The women took no part in 
this amusement, as it was the custom in Unyoro for the 
men to enjoy themselves in laziness, while the women 
performed all the labour of the fields. Thus they were 
fatigued, and glad to rest, while the men passed the night 
in uproarious merriment. The usual style of singing was 
a rapid chant delivered as a solo, while at intervals the 
crowd burst out in a deafening chorus together with the 
drums and horns; the latter were formed of immense 
gourds which, growing in a peculiar shape, with long 
bottle necks, were easily converted into musical (?) 



Chap. VI.] FBEQUENT CONFLAOBATIONS. 199 

instruments. Every now and then a cry of fire in the 
middle of the night enlivened the ennvd of our existence ; 
the huts were littered deep with straw, and the inmates, 
intoxicated, frequently feU asleep with their huge pipes, 
alight, which, falling in the dry straw, at once occa- 
sioned a conflagration. In such cases the flames spread 
from hut to hut with immense rapidity, and frequently 
four or five hundred huts in Kamrasi's large camp were 
destroyed hy fire, and rebuilt in a few days. I was 
anxious concerning my powder, as, in the event of fire, 
the blaze of the straw hut was so instantaneous that 
nothing could be saved : should my powder explode, I 
should be entirely defenceless. Accordingly, after a con- 
flagration in my neighbourhood, I insisted upon removing 
all huts within a circuit of thirty yards of my dwelling : 
the natives demurring, I at once ordered my men to pull 
down the houses, and thereby relieved myself from 
drunken and dangerous neighbours. 

Although we had been regularly supplied with beef by 
the king, we now found it most difficult to procure fowls ; 
the war with Fowooka had occasioned the destruction of 
nearly aU the poultry in the neighbourhood of Kisoona, as 
Kamrasi and his kojoers (magicians) were occupied with 
daily sacrifices, deducing prognostications of coming events 
from the appearances of the entrails of the birds slain. 
The king was surrounded by sorcerers, both men and 



200 IMPLICIT BMIEF IN 80BCEBERS. [Chap. VI. 

¦women ; these people were distinguished from others by 
witch-like chaplets of various dried roots worn upon the 
head ; some of them had dried lizards, crocodiles' teeth, 
lions' claws, minute tortoise-shells, &c. added to their 
collection of charms. They could have subscribed to the 
witches' cauldron of Macbeth : 

" Eye of newt and toe of frog. 
Wool of bat and tongue of dog. 
Adder's fork and blindworm's sting, 
Lizard's leg and owlet's wing, 
For a charm of powerful trouble. 
Like a heU-brotb boil and bubble. " 

On the first appearance of these women, many of whom 
were old and haggard, I felt inclined to repeat Banquo's 
question : " What are these, so withered and so wUd in 
their attire, that look not like the inhabitants o' the earth, 
and yet are on't ? Live you ? or are you aught that man 
may question?" 

In such witches and wizards Kamrasi and his people • 
believed implicitly. Bacheeta, and also my men, told me 
that when my wife was expected to die during the attack 
of coup de soleil, the guide had procured a witch, who had 
killed a fowl to question it, " Whether she would recover 
and reach the lake?" The fowl in its dying struggle 
protruded its tongue, which sign is considered affirmative ; 
after this feply the natives had no doubt of the result. 



Chap. VI.] INVASION OF TEE M'WAS. 201 

These people, althougli far superior to the tribes on the 
north of the Mle in general intelligence, had no idea of 
a Supreme Being, nor any object of worship, their faith 
resting upon a simple belief in magic like that of the 
natives of Madi and Obbo. 

Some weeks passed without a reply from Shooa to the 
letter I had forwarded by my men, neither had any news 
been received of their arrival; we had relapsed into the 
usual monotony of existence. This was happily broken 
by a most important event. 

On the 6th September, M'Gambi came to my hut in ' 
a state of great excitement, with the intelligence that the 
M'was, the natives of Uganda, had invaded Kamrasi's 
country with a large army ; that they had already crossed 
the Kafoor river and had captured M'rooli, and that they 
were marching through the country direct to Kisoona, 
with the intention of killing Kamrasi and of attacking us, 
and annexing the country of Unyoro to M't^se's domi- 
nions. My force was reduced by four men that I had 
sent to Shooa — thus we were a party of twenty guns, 
including the Turks, who unfortunately had no ammu- 
nition. There was no doubt about the truth of the intelli- 
gence; the natives seemed in great consternation, as the 
M'was were far more powerful than Kamrasi's people, and 
every invasion from that country had been attended with 
the total rout of the Unyoro forces. I told M'Gambi that 



202 COiNSULTED BY THE KINO IN EXTREMITY. [Chap. VI. 

messengers must be sent off at once to Shooa with a letter 
that I would write to Ibrahim, summoning him imme- 
diately to Karuma with a force of 100 men ; at the same 
time I suggested that we should leave Kisoona and march 
with Kamrasi's army direct to Karuma, there to establish 
a fortified camp to command the passage of the river, and 
to secure a number of canoes to provide a passage for 
Ibrahim's people whenever they could effect a junction : — 
otherwise, the M'was might destroy the boats and cut 
off the Turks on their arrival at the ferry. Kisoona was 
an exceedingly disadvantageous situation, as it was a mere 
forest of trees and tangled herbage ten or twelve feet high, 
in which the enemy could approach us unperceived, secure 
from our guns. M'Gambi quite approved of my advice, 
and hurried off to the king, who, as usual in cases of 
necessity, came to me without delay. He was very 
excited, and said that messengers arrived four or five 
times a day, bringing reports of every movement of the 
enemy, who were advancing rapidly in three divisions, one 
by the route direct from M'rooli to Karuma that I had 
followed on my arrival at Atada, another direct to Kisoona, 
and a third between these two parallels, so as to cut off 
his retreat to an island in the Nile, where he had formerly 
taken refuge when his country was invaded by the same 
people. I begged him not to think of retiring to the 
island, but to take my advice and fight it out, in which 



Chap. VI.] KAMRASI WILL NOT TIGHT. 203 

ease I should he happy to assist him, as I was his guest, 
and I had a perfect right to repel any aggression. Ac- 
cordingly I drew a plan of operations, showing how a 
camp could he formed on the cliff ahove Karuma Falls, 
having two sides protected by the river, while a kraal 
could be formed in the vicinity completely commanded by 
our guns, where his cattle would remain in perfect 
security. He listened with wandering eyes to all military 
arrangements, and concluded by abandoning all idea of 
resistance, but resolutely adhering to his plan of flight to 
the island that had protected him on a former occasion. 
We could only agree upon two points, the evacuation of 
Kisoona as untenable, and the necessity of despatching 
a summons to Ibrahim immediately. The latter decision 
was acted upon that instant, and runners were, despatched 
with a letter to Shooa. Kamrasi decided to wait until 
the next morning for reports from expected messengers on 
the movements of the enemy, otherwise he might run into 
the very jaws of the danger he vTished to avoid ; and he 
promised to send porters to carry us and our effects, should 
it be necessary to march to Karuma: with this under- 
standing, he departed. Bacheeta now assured me that 
the M'was were so dreaded by the Unyoro people that 
nothing would induce them to fight ; therefore I must not 
depend upon Kamrasi in any way, but must make inde- 
pendent arrangements : she informed me, that the invasion 



204 JN INVIOORATINO LITTLE DIFHCULTT. [Chap. VI. 

was caused by accounts given to M't^se by Goobo Goolah, 
one of Speke's deserters, who had run away from Kamrasi 
shortly after our arrival in the country, and had reported 
to M'tese, the king of Uganda, that we were on our way 
to pay him a visit with many valuable presents, but that 
Kamrasi had prevented us from proceeding, in order to 
monopolise the merchandise. Enraged at this act of his 
great enemy Kamrasi, he had sent spies to corroborate the 
testimony of Goobo Goolah (these were the four men who 
had appeared some weeks ago), which being confirmed, 
he had sent an army to destroy both Kamrasi and his 
country, and to capture us and lead us to his capital. 
This was the explanation of the affair given by Bacheeta, 
who, with a woman's curiosity and tact, picked up in- 
formation in the camps almost as correctly as a Timed 
correspondent. 

This was very enjoyable — ^the monotony of our existence 
had been unbearable, and here was an invigorating little 
dif&culty with just sufficient piquancy to excite our spirits. 
My men were so thoroughly drilled and accustomed to 
complete obedience and dependence upon my guidance, 
that they had quite changed their characters. I called 
Eddrees, gave him ten rounds of ball cartridge for each of 
his men, and told him to keep with my party should we 
be obliged to march : he immediately called a number of 
natives and concealed aU his ivory in the jungle. 



Chap. VI.] MOCK VALOUR OF THE UNTOROS. 205 

At about 9 P.M. the camp was in an uproar ; suddenly 
drums beat in all quarters, in reply to nogaras that 
sounded the alarm in Kamrasi's camp; horns bellowed; 
men and women yelled ; huts were set on fire ; and in the 
blaze of Light hundreds of natives, all armed and dressed 
for war, rushed frantically about, as usual upon such 
occasions, gesticulating, and engaging in mock fight with 
each other, as though full of valour and boiling over with 
a desire to meet the enemy. Bacheeta, who was a sworn 
enemy to Kamrasi, was delighted at his approaching 
discomfiture. As some of the most desperate looking 
warriors, dressed with horns upon their heads, rushed up 
to us brandishing their spears, she shouted in derision, 
"Dance away, my boys! ISTow's your time when the 
enemy is far away ; but if you see a M'wa as big as 
the boy Saat, you wiU run as fast as your legs can 
carry you." 

The M'was were reported to be so close to Kisoona that 
their nogaras had been heard from Kamrasi's position, 
therefore we were to be ready to march for Atada before 
daybreak on the following morning. There was little 
sleep that night, as all the luggage had to be packed in 
readiness for the early start. Cassav4 who could always 
be depended upon, arrived at my hut, and told me that 
messengers had reported that the M'was had swept every- 
thing before them, having captured all the women and 



206 KAMRASrS RETREAT. [Chap. VI. 

cattle of the country and killed a great number of people ; 
that they had seen the light of burning villages from Kam- 
rasi's camp, and that it was doubtful whether the route was 
open to Atada. I suggested that men should be sent on 
in advance, to report if the path were occupied: this was 
immediately done. 

Before daybreak on the following morning an immense 
volume of light with dense clouds of smoke in the direc- 
tion of Kamrasi's position showed that his camp had 
been fired, according to custom, and that his retreat had 
commenced; — thousands of grass huts were in flames, 
and I could not help beiag annoyed at the foUy of these 
natives at thus giving the enemy notice of their retreat, 
by a signal that could be seen at many miles' distance, 
when success depended upon rapid and secret movements. 
Shortly after these signs of the march, crowds of women, 
men, cows, goats, and luggage appeared, advancing in single 
file 'through a grove of plaintains and passing within twenty 
yards of us in an endless string. Ifwas pouring with rain, 
and women carrying their children were slipping along 
the muddy path, while throngs of armed men and porters 
pushed rudely by, until at last the gallant Kamrasi him- 
seK appeared with a great number of women (his wives), 
several of whom were carried on litters, being too fat to 
walk. He took no notice of me as he passed by. M'Gambi 
was standing by me, and he explained that we were to 



Chap. VI.] WE ARE DESERTED. 207 

close the rear, Kamrasi having concltided that it was 
advisable to have the guns hetween him and the enemy. 
For upwards of an hour the crowd of thousands of people 
and cattle filed past ; — at length the last straggler closed 
the line of march. But where were our promised porters ? 
Not a man was forthcoming, and we were now the sole 
occupants of the deserted village, excepting M'Gambi and 
Cassave. These men declared that the people were so 
frightened that no one would remain to carry us and our 
effects, but that they would go to a neighbouring village 
and bring porters to convey us to Foweera to-morrow, as 
that was the spot where Kamrasi wished us to camp ; at 
Foweera there was no high grass, and the country was 
perfectly open, so that the rifles coiild command an ex- 
tensive range. The cunning and duplicity of Kamrasi 
were extraordinary — he promised, only to deceive; his 
object in leaving us here was premeditated, as he knew 
that the M'was, should they pursue him, must fight "us 
before they could follow on his path ; — ^we were therefore 
to be left to defend his rear. The order to camp at 
Foweera had a similar motive. I knew the country, as 
we had passed it on our march from Atada to M'rooli; 
it was about three miles from Karuma FaUs, and would 
form a position in Kamrasi's rear when he should locate 
himself upon the island. Foweera was an excellent 
military poiat, as it was ec[uidistant from the Nile north 



208 LEirE EISOONA. [Chap. VI. 

and east at the angle where the river turned to the west 
from Atada. 

I was so annoyed at the deception practised by Kam- 
rasi that I determined to fraternise with the M'was, shoidd 
they appear at Kisoona; and I made up my mind not 
to fire a shot except in absolute necessity for so faithless 
an ally as the king. This I explained to M'Gambi, and 
threatened that if porters were not supplied I would 
wait at Kisoona, join the M'was on their arrival, and with 
them as allies I would attack the island which Kamrasi 
boasted was his stronghold. This idea frightened M'Gambi, 
and both he and Oassave started to procure porters, pro- 
misiag most faithfully to appear that evening, and to start 
together to Foweera on the following morning. We were 
a party of twenty guns ; there was no fear in the event 
of an attack. I ordered all the huts of the village to be 
burned except those belonging to our men; thus we had 
a clear space for the guns in case of necessity. 

In the evening, true to his promise, M'Gambi appeared 
with a number of natives, but Cassav^ had followed 
Kamrasi. 

At sunrise on the following day we started, my wife 
in a litter, and I in a chair. The road was extremely bad, 
excessively muddy from the rain of yesterday, trodden 
deeply by the hoofs of herds of cattle, and by the feet 
of the thousands that had formed Kamrasi's army and 



Chap. VI.] OUTMARCHED. 209 

camp followers. There was no variety in the country, it 
was the same undulating land overgrown with impene- 
trable grass, and wooded with mimosas ; every swamp 
being shaded by clumps of the graceful wild date. After 
a march of about eight miles we found the route dry 
and dusty, the rain on the preceding day having been 
partial. There was no water on the road and we were 
aU thirsty, having calculated on a supply from the heavy 
rain. Although many thousands of people had travelled 
on the path so recently as the previous day, it was never- 
theless narrow and hemmed in by the high grass, as the 
crowd had marched in single file and had therefore not 
widened the route. This caused great delay to the porters 
who carried the litter, as they marched two deep ; thus 
one man had to struggle through the high grass. M'Gambi 
started off in advance of the party with several natives at a 
rapid pace, while the Turks and some of my men guarded 
the ammunition, and I remained in company with the 
litter and five of my men to bring up the rear. The pro- 
gress of the litter was so slow that, after travelling aU day 
until sunset, we were outmarched, and just as it was 
getting dark, we arrived at a spot where a path branched 
to the south, while the main path that we had been follow- 
^ing continued E.KE. At this point a native was waiting, 
having been stationed there by the Turks to direct us to 
the south ; — he explained that the people had halted at a 
VOL. II. p 



210 ARBIFE AT BEANO— NO WATER. [Chap. VI. 

village close by. Pushing our way througli the narrow path 
we shortly arrived at the village of Deang. This consisted 
of a few deserted huts scattered among extensive groves of 
plantains. Here we found Eddrees and the Turks, with 
their captives from the attack on Powooka ; — ^passing their 
huts, we took possession of two clean and new huts in the 
midst of a well-cultivated field of beans that were about 
six inches above the ground, the cleared field forming 
an oasis in the middle of the surrounding grass jungle. 
There was no water ; — it was already dark, and, although 
we had travelled through the heat of the day, no one had 
drunk since the morning. We were intensely thirsty, and 
the men searched in vain among the desertfed huts in the 
hope of finding a supply in the water-jars — they were all 
empty. Fortunately we had a little sour milk in a jar 
that we had qarried with us, barely sufficient for two per- 
sons. There was nothing to eat except unripe plantains : 
these we boiled as a substitute for potatoes. I disarmed 
all the porters, placing their lances and shields under my 
bedstead in the hut, lest their owners should abscond during 
the night. It now appeared that our party had scattered 
most disgracefully ; those in advance with the ammunition, 
who had been ordered not to quit their charge for an 
instant, had outmarclied the main body, leaving Eddrees 
and a few men with the captive women, who could not 
walk fast, and my small guard who had attended the litter. 



Chap. VI.] DESERTJED AGAIN BY THE PORTERS. 211 

No one ate mucli that night, as all were too thirsty 
On the following morning I found to my dismay that 
all of our porters had absconded, except two men who 
had slept in the same hut with my people; — we were 
for about the hundredth time deserted in this detestable 
country. I ordered Eddrees to push on to Poweera 
and to desire my men with the ammunition to wait 
there until I should arrive, and to request Kamrasi to 
send porters immediately to assist us. Foweera was 
about thirteen miles from DeSng, our present position. 
Eddrees and his party started, and I immediately sent 
my men with empty jars to search in all directions for 
water; — they 'returned in about an hour, having been 
unsuccessfid. I again ordered them to search in another 
direction, and should they find a native, to force him 
to be their guide to a drinking place. In about three 
hours they returned, accompanied by two old men, and 
laden with three large jars of good water ; they had found 
the old people in a deserted village, and they had guided 
them to a spring about three miles distant. Our chief 
want being supplied, we had no fear of starving, as there 
was abundance of plantains, and we had about a dozen 
cheeses that we had manufactured while at Kisoona, in 
addition to a large supply of flour. A slight touch of 
fever attacked me, and I at length fell asleep. 

I was awakened by the voices of my men, who were 
p2 



212 RICHAEN MISSING. [Chap. VI. 

standing at the door of my liiit with most doleful coun- 
tenances. They explained that Eicham was missing, and was 
supposed to have been killed hy the natives. My vakeel 
held a broken ramrod in his hand : this suspicious witness 
was covered with blood. It appeared that while I was 
asleep, Eicharn and one of my men named Mahommed had 
taken their guns, and without orders had rambled through 
the country in search of a village, with the intention 
of procuring porters, if possible, to carry us to Foweera. 
They had arrived at a nest of smaU villages, and had 
succeeded iu engaging four men; these Eicham left in 
charge of Mahommed while he proceeded alone to a 
neighbouring village. Shortly after his departure Ma- 
hommed heard the report of a gun in that direction 
about half a mile distant, and leaving his charge, he 
ran towards the spot. On arrival, he found the village 
deserted, and on searching the neighbourhood, and vainly 
calling Eicharn, he came upon a large pool of blood 
opposite several huts; lying upon the blood was the 
broken ramrod of Eicharn's gun. After searching without 
success, he had returned with the melancholy report of 
this disaster. I was very fond of Eicham ; he had followed 
me faithfully for years, and with fewer faults than most 
of his race, he had exhibited many sterling qualities. I, 
waited for two days in this spot, searching for him in all 
directions. On one occasion my men saw a number of men 



Chap. VI.] HHPORTEB AS KILLED. 213 

and women howling in a viUage not far from the place 
where the accident had happened; on the approach of 
my people they fled into the jungles : thus, there was no 
doubt that Eicharn must have shot a man before he had 
been killed, as the natives were mourning for the dead. 
I was much distressed at this calamity; my faithful 
Eicharn was dead, and the double-barrelled Purdey that 
he carried was lost ; this belonged to my friend Oswell, of 
South African and Lake Ngami celebrity ; it was a much- 
prized weapon, with which he had hxmted for five years 
aR the heavy game of Africa with such untiring zeal that 
much of the wood of the stock was eaten away by the 
"wait a bit" thorns in his passage on horseback at full 
speed through the jungles. He had very kindly lent me 
this old companion of his sports, and I had entrusted it 
to Eicharn as my most careful man : both man and gun 
were now lost. 

Having vainly searched for two days, and my men 
having seen several village dogs with their mouths and 
feet covered with blood, we came to the conclusion that 
his body had been dragged into the grass jungle by the 
natives, and there, concealed, it had been discovered and 
devoured by the dogs. 

No porters had arrived from Kamrasi, neither had any 
reply been sent to the message I had forwarded by Eddrees; 
— the evening arrived, and, much dispirited at the loss of 



214 TEE M' WAS' DRUMS BEAT. [Chap. VI. 

my old servant, I lay down on my angarep for the night. 
At about eight o'clock, in the stillness of our solitude, my 
men asleep, with the exception of the sentry, we were 
startled by the sound of a nogara at no great distance to ' 
the south of our huts. The two natives who had remained 
with us immediately Tsroke the men, and declared that the 
drums we heard were those of the M'was, who were 
evidently approaching our village ; — the natives knew the 
peculiar sound of the nogaras of the enemy, which were 
different to those of Kamrasi. This was rather awkward — 
our ammunition was at Foweera, and we had no more than 
the supply in our cartouche boxes, my men thirty rounds 
each, while I carried in my pouch twenty-one. Our posi- 
tion was untenable, as the drinking place was three miles 
distant. Again the nogara sounded, and the native guides 
declared that they could not remain where we then were, 
but they would conceal themselves in the high grass. My 
wife proposed that we should forsake our luggage, and 
march at once for Poweera and effect a junction with our 
men and ammunition before daybreak. I was sure that it 
could not be less than twelve or thirteen miles, and iu her 
weak state it would be impossible for her to accomplish 
the distance, through high grass, in darkness, over a rough 
path, with the chance of the route being already occupied 
by the enemy. However, she was determined to risk the 
march. I accordingly prepared to start at 9 P.M., as at 



Chap. VI.] MAS,CH TO FOWmRA. 215 

that time the moon would be about 30° above the horizon 
and would afford us a good light. I piled aU the luggage 
withia the hut ; — packed our blankets ia a canvas bao-, to 
be carried by one of the natives, and ordered one of our 
black women to carry a jar of water. Thus provided, and 
forsaking all other effects, we started at exactly nine 
o'clock, following our two natives as guides. 

Our course was about E.KE. The moon was bright, 
but the great height of the grass shadowed the narrow 
path so that neither ruts nor stones were visible. The 
dew was exceedtagly heavy, and in brushing through the 
rank vegetation we were soon wet to the skin. This was 
our first attempt at walking a distance since many months, 
and being dreadfully out of condition, I much feared that 
one of us might be attacked by fever before we should 
have accomplished the march ; at all events, there was no 
alternative but to push ahead until we should reach 
Foweera, however distant. We walked for about three 
hours along a narrow but unmistakeable path, weU trodden 
by the cattle and people that had accompanied Kamrasi. 
Suddenly we arrived at a place where a path diverged to 
the right, while another led to the left : the former was 
much trodden by cattle, and the guides declared this to be 
the right direction. Perfectly certain of their mistake, as 
Foweera lay to the east, while such a course would lead 
us due south, I refused to follow, and ordered the party to 



216 LOSE THE ROAD. [Chap. VI. 

lialt while I made a survey of the neighbourhood. I 
shortly discovered in the bright moonlight that the larger 
path to the south had been caused by the cattle that had 
been driven in that direction, but had again returned by 
the same route. It was evident that some village lay to 
the south, at which Kamrasi and his army had slept, and 
that they had returned by the same path to the Foweera 
main route on the following morning. I soon discovered 
cattle tracks on the smaller path to the east : this I deter- 
mined to follow. My guides were of little use, and they 
confessed that they had only once visited the Poweera 
country. We were bound for the principal vUlage that 
belonged to the chief Kallo4 an excellent man, who had 
frequently visited us at Kisoona. 

Not far from the branch roads we came suddenly upon a 
few huts, the inmates of which were awake. They gave 
us the unpleasant intelligence that the M'was occupied the 
country in advance, and that we should not be able to 
pass them on our present route, as they were close to that 
spot. It was now past midnight, the country was per- 
fectly still, and having no confidence ia the guides I led 
the way. 

About a mile from the huts that we had passed I sud- 
denly observed the light of numerous fires, and a great 
number of temporary huts formed of green grass and 
plantain leaves : this wais the camp of the M'was. I did 



Chap. VI.] AT A LOSS FOR LIBWT ROUTE. 217 

not observe any people, nor did we wait long in our 
present position, but taking a path that led to the north, 
we quietly and stealthily continued our march through 
walls of high grass, until in about an hour we arrived in a 
totally different country. There was no longer the dismal 
grass jungle in which a man was as much lost as a rabbit 
in a field of corn, but beautiful park-like glades of rich 
and tender grass, like an English meadow, stretched before 
us in the pale moonlight, darkened in many places by 
the shadows of large isolated trees and clumps of forest. 
Continuing along this agreeable route, we suddenly arrived 
at a spot where numerous well-beaten paths branched into 
all directions. This was extreme confusion. We had left 
the direct route to Foweera when we had made the detour 
to avoid the M'was' camp. I knew that, as we had then 
turned to the north, our course should now be due east. 
There was a path leading in that direction ; but just as we 
were quietly deliberating upon the most advisable course, 
we heard distant voices. Any voice in this neighbourhood 
I concluded must be that of an enemy, therefore I ordered 
my people to sit down, while two men concealed them- 
selves on the borders of a jungle, about a hundred yards 
distant, as sentries. 

I then sent Bacheeta and one of the guides towards the 
spot from which the sound of voices had proceeded, to 
listen to their language, and to report whether they were 



218 CAPTURE A NATITE. [Chap. VI. 

M'was, or people of Foweera. The spies started cautiously 
on their errand. 

About five miQutes passed in utter silence ; the Toices 
that we had heard had ceased. We were very cold, being 
wet through with the dew. My wife was much fatigued, 
and now rested by sitting on the bag of blankets. I was 
afraid of remaining long in inaction, lest she should become 
stiff and be unable to march. 

We had been thus waiting for about ten minutes, when 
we were suddenly startled by the most fearful and piercing 
yeU I ever heard. This proceeded from the jungle where 
one of my men was on guard, about a hundred yards dis- 
tant. For the moment I thought he had been caught by 
a lion, and cocking my rifle, I ran towards the spot. Before 
I reached the jungle I saw one of the sentries running in the 
same direction, and two other figures approaching, one 
being dragged along by the throat by my man Moosa. 
He had a prisoner. It appeared, that while he was crouch- 
ing beneath the bushes at the entrance of the main path 
that led through the jungle, he suddenly observed a man 
quietly stealing along the forest close to him. He waited, 
unobserved, until the figure had passed him, when he 
quickly sprang upon him from behind, seizing his spear 
with his left hand and grasping his throat with his right. 
This sudden and unexpected attack from an unseen enemy 
had so terrified the native that he had uttered the extra- 



Chap. VI.] RECpFEB TBH ROUTK 219 

ordinary yell that had startled our party. He was now 
triumphantly led by his captor, but he was so prostrated 
by fear that he trembled as though in an ague fit. I 
endeavoured to reassure him, and Bacheeta shortly return- 
ing with the guide, we discovered the value of our prize. 
Far from being an enemy, he was one of Kallo^'s men, who 
had been sent to spy the M'was from Foweera : thus we 
had a dependable guide. This little incident was as re- 
freshiag as a glass of sherry during the night's march, and 
we enjoyed a hearty laugh. Bacheeta had been unsuccess- 
ful in finding the origin of the voices, as they had ceased 
shortly after she had left us. It appeared that our captive 
had also heard the voices, and he was stealthily endeavour- 
ing to ascertain the cause when he was so roughly seized 
by Moosa. We now explained to him our route, and he 
at once led the way, relieving the native who had hitherto 
carried the bag of blankets. We had made a considerable 
circuit by turning from the direct path, but we now had 
the advantage of seeing the open countrj'- before us, and 
marching upon a good and even path. We walked for 
about three hours from this spot at a brisk pace, my wife 
falling three times from sheer fatigue, which induced 
stumbhng over the slightest inequalities in the road. At 
length we descended a valley, and crossing a slight hollow, 
we commenced the ascent of a gentle inclination upon a 
beautiful grassy undulation crowned by a clump of large 



220 BXEAUSTION OF MBS. BAKER. [Chap. VI. 

trees. In the stiUness of tlie night wherever we had 
halted we had distinctly heard the distant roar of the 
river; but the sound had so much increased within the 
last hour that I felt convinced we must he near Foweera 
at the bend of the Victoria Nile. My wife was so ex- 
hausted with the long march, rendered doubly fatiguing 
by the dew that had added additional weight to her 
clothes, that she could hardly ascend the hOl we had just 
commenced. For the last hour our guide had declared 
that Foweera was close to us ; but experienced in natives' 
descriptions of distance, we were quite uncertain as to the 
hour at which we should arrive. We were already at the 
top of the hill, and within about two hundred yards of the 
dense clump of trees my wife was obliged to confess that 
she could go no farther. Just at that moment a cock 
crowed; another replied immediately from the clump of 
trees close to us, and the guide. Little appreciating the 
blessing of his announcement, told us that we had arrived 
at Kalloe's village, for which we were bound. 

It was nearly 5 A.M., and we had marched from Deang 
at 9 P.M. There was some caution required in approaching 
the village, as, should one of the Turks' sentries be on 
guard, he would in all probability fire at the first object 
he might see, without a challenge. I therefore ordered my 
men to shout, while I gave my well-known whistle that 
would be a signal of our arrival. For some time we exerted 



Chap. VI.] ARRIVIl AT FOWEMRA. 221 

our lungs in this manner before we received a reply, and I 
began to fear tbat our people were not at this village : at 
length a well-known voice replied in Arabic. The sentries 
and the whole party were positively asleep, although close 
to an enemy's country. They were soon awake when it 
was reported that we had arrived, and upon our entering 
the village they crowded around us with the usual wel- 
come. A large fire was lighted in a spacious hut, and 
fortunately, the portmanteau having preceded us together 
with the ammunition, we were provided with a change of 
clothes. 

I slept for a couple of hours, and then sent for the chief 
of Foweera, Kalloe. Both he and his son appeared ; they 
( said that their spies had reported that the M'was would 
attack this village on the following day; that they had 
devastated the entire country and occupied the whole of 
Unyoro and Chopi ; that they had cut off a large herd of 
cattle belonging to Kamrasi, and he had only just reached 
the island in time for security, as the enemy had arrived 
at the spot and killed a number of people who were too 
late to embark. Kallo4 reported that Kamrasi had fired 
at the M'was from the island, but having no buUets his 
rifle was useless. The M'was had returned the fire, being 
provided with four guns that they had procured from 
Speke's deserters ; — they were in the same condition as 
Kamrasi, having no buUets ; thus a harmless fusilade had 



222 WELL PREPARED. [Chap. VI. 

been carried on by both parties. The M'was had retired 
from their position on the bank of the river by Kamrasi's 
island, and had proceeded to Atada, which they had de- 
stroyed. They were now within three miles of us ; never- 
theless the foolish KaUo^ expressed his determination of 
driving his cattle to Kamrasi's island for security, about 
two miles distant. I endeavoured to persuade him that 
they would be perfectly safe if under our protection, but 
his only reply was to order his son to drive them off imme- 
diately. 

That day, Kallo^ and all the natives quitted the village 
and fled to an island for security, leaving us masters of the 
position. I served out a quantity of ammunition to the 
Turks, and we were perfectly prepared. The drums of the 
M'was were heard in all directions both day and night; 
but we were perfectly comfortable, as the granaries were 
well filled, and innumerable fowls stored both this and the 
closely adjoining deserted villages. 

On the following day M'Gambi appeared with a message 
from Kamrasi, beggiag us to come and form a camp on the 
bank of the river opposite to his island to protect him from 
the M'was, who would assuredly return and attack him in 
canoes. I told him plainly that I should not interfere to 
assist him, as he had left me on the road at Deang; that 
Eicharn had been killed by his people, and that one of my 
guns was stOl in their possession, added to which I had 



Chap. VI.] REFUSE TO ASSIST KAMRASI. 223 

been obliged to forsake all my baggage, owing to the deser- 
tion of the porters; — for all these errors I should hold ¦ 
Kamrasi responsible. He replied that he did not think 
Eicharn was kOled, but that he had shot the chief of a 
village dead, having got into some quarrel with the natives. 
The conversation ended by my adhering to my intention of 
remaining independent at Foweera. M'Gambi said they 
were very miserable on the island, that no one could rest 
day or night for the mosquitoes, and that they were suffer- 
ing from famine ; — he had several men with him, who at 
once set to work to thrash out com from the weU-filled 
granaries of the village, and they departed heavily laden. 

During the day a few natives of the district found their 
way into the village for a similar purpose. I had pre- 
viously heard that the inhabitants of Foweera were dis- 
affected, and that many were in correspondence with the 
enemy. I accordingly instructed Bacheeta to converse 
with the people, and to endeavour through them to get 
into communication with the M'was, assuring them that I 
should remain neutral, xmless attacked, but if their inten- 
tions were hostile I was quite ready to fight. At the same 
time I instructed her to explain that I should be sorry to 
fire at the servants of M't&e, as he had behaved weU to 
my friends Speke and Grant, but that the best way to 
avoid a collision -wbul'd ' be for the M'was to keep at a 
distance from my camp. Bacheeta told me that this 



224 RICHABN'S RETURN. [Chap. VI. 

assurance would be certain to reacli the cMef of tlie MVas, 
as many of the natives of Chopi were in league with them 
against Kamrasi. 

In the afternoon of that day I stroUed outside the vil- 
lage with some of my men to accompany the party to the 
drinking place from which we procured our water ; — ^it was 
about a quarter of a mile from the camp, and it was con- 
sidered dangerous for any one to venture so far without the 
protection of an armed party. 

We had just returned, and were standing in the cool of 
the evening on the lawn opposite the entrance of the camp, 
when one of my men came rushing towards us, shouting) 
" Eicharn ! Eicharn's come back ! " In another moment I 
saw with extreme delight the jet black Eicharn, whom 
I had mourned as lost, quietly marching towards us. The 
meeting was almost pathetic. I took him warmly by the 
hand and gave him a few words of welcome, but my vakeel,, 
who had never cared for him before, threw himself upon 
his neck and burst out crying like a child. How long this 
sobbing would have continued I know not, as several of 
my Arabs caught the infection and began to be lachry- 
mose, while Eicharn, embraced on all sides, stood the ordeal 
most stoically, looking extremely bewildered, but totally 
unconscious of the cause of so much weeping. To change 
the current of feeling, I told the boy Saat to fetch a large 
gourd-sheU of merissa (native beer), of which I had re- 



Chap. VI.] BICHABN'S STORY. 225 

ceived a good supply from Kallo^. This soon arrived, and 
was by far the most acceptable welcome to Eicharn, who 
drank Hke a whale. So large was the gourd, that even 
after the mighty draught enough remained for the rest of 
the party to sip, Eefreshed by the much-loved drink, 
Eicharn now told us his story. When separated from 
Mahommed at the village he had found a great number of 
people, some of whom were our runaway porters ; on his 
attempting to persuade them to return, a quarrel had taken 
place, and the chief of the village heading his men had 
advanced on Eicharn and seized his gun; — at the same 
time the chief called to his men to kill him. Eicharn 
drew his knife to release his gun ; seeing which, the chief 
relaxed his hold, and stepping a pace back he raised his 
lance to strUse ; — at the same moment Eicharn pulled the 
trigger and shot him dead. The natives, panic-stricken at 
the sudden effect of the shot, rushed away, and Eicharn, 
profiting by the opportunity, disappeared in the high grass, 
and fled. Once in the iuterminable sea of grass that was 
almost impenetrable, he wandered for two days without 
water: hearing the distant roar of the Nile, he at length 
reached it when nearly exhausted with thirst and fatigue ; 
—he then followed up the stream to Karuma, avoided the 
M'was,— and knowing the road thence to M'rooli that we 
had formerly travelled, he arrived at Foweera. His ramrod 
had been broken in the struggle when the chief seized hi^ 
VOL. IL Q 



226 THE KING IN DISTRESS. [Chap. VI. 

gun, and to his great astonishment I now showed him the 
piece that we had picked up on the pool of blood. He had 
made an excellent loading-rod with his hunting knife by 
shaping a sapling of hard wood, and had reloaded his gun ; 
thus with a good supply of ammunition he had not much 
fear of the natives. Kamrasi had evidently heard the true 
account of the affair. 

Late in the evening we heard from a native that the 
whole of KaUo^'s cattle that he had driven from Foweera 
had been captured by the enemy on their way to the river 
island, and that one of his sons and several natives who 
had driven them were killed ; — this was the result of his 
precipitate flight. 

The M'was followed up their advantages with uninter- 
rupted success, overrunning the entire country even to the 
shores of the Albert lake, and driviug off the cattle, together 
with all the women that had not taken refuge upon the 
numerous islands of the Victoria Nile. Duriag this time, 
Kamrasi and his wives, together with his principal chiefs, 
resided in the misery of mosquitoes and malaria on the 
river;— great numbers of people died of disease and starva^- 
tion. M'Gambi appeared frequently at our camp in order 
to procure corn, and from him we received reports of the 
distress of the people ; — ^his appearance had much changed ; 
he looked half starved, and complained that he had nothing 
to drink but Nile water, as they had neither corn, nor pots 



Chap. VI.] dBRirJL OF REINFORCEMENTS. 227 

in which they could make merissa, and the M'was had 
destroyed all the plantains, therefore they could not pre- 
pare cider. 

Among other losses my two cows were reported by 
M'GamM to have heen stolen by the M'was, in company 
with the cattle of Kamrasi, with which they had been 
driven from Kisoona. I did not believe it, as he also told 
me that all the luggage that I had left at Deang had like- 
wise been stolen by the enemy. But I had heard from 
Bacheeta that the natives of that neighbourhood had car- 
ried it (about sis loads) direct to Kamrasi's island ; thus it 
^fas in his possession at the same time that he declared it 
to have been stolen by the M'was. T told him, that I 
should hold him responsible, and that he should pay me 
the value of the lost effects in a certain number of cows, 
A few days after this conversation, my cows and the whole 
of my luggage were delivered to me in safety. Kamrasi 
had evidently intended to appropriate them, but being 
pressed by the M'was and his old enemies on the east bank 
of the Nile (the Langgos), who had made- common cause 
with the invaders, the time was not favourable for a quarrel 
with either me or the Turks. 

On the evening of the 19th September, a few days after 
this occurrence, intelligence was brought into camp that 
Ibrahim and a hundred men had ar£ved at Karuma Palls 
at the ferry by which we had formerly crossed the river to 

q2 



228 LETTERS FROM HOME. [Chap. VI. 

Atada. I immediately despatched ten men to investigate 
the truth of the report. In about two hours they returned 
in high spirits, having exchanged greeting with Ibrahim 
and his party across the river. Kamrasi had despatched 
boats to another ferry above the Palls to facilitate the 
passage of the entire party on the following morning, as 
he wished them to attack the M'was immediately. 

Not being desirous of such an encounter, the M'was, 
who had witnessed the arrival of this powerful reinforce- 
ment, immediately retreated, and by sunrise they had 
fallen back about twenty miles on the road to M'rooli. 

On the morning of the 20th Ibrahim arrived, bringing 
with him the ]post from England ; that being addressed to 
the consul at Khartoum had been forwarded to Gondokoi'o 
by the annual boats, and taken charge of by Ibrahim on 
his arrival at that station last April with ivory from the 
interior. My letters were of very old dates, none under 
two years, with the exception of one from Speke, who had 
sent me the Illustrated London News, containing his 
portrait and that of Grant; also Punch, with an illus- 
tration of Punch's discovery of the Nile sources. Tor 
a whole day I revelled in the luxury of letters and news- 
papers. 

Ibrahim had very kindly thought of our necessities 
when at Gondokoro, and had brought me a piece of coarse 
cotton cloth of Arab manufacture (darmoor) for clothes 



Chap. VI.] KAMBAST "IS HIMSELF AGAIN." 229 

for myself, and a piece of cotton print for a dress for 
Mrs. Baker, in addition to a large jar of honey, and some 
rice and coffee — the latter being the balance of my old 
stock that I had been obliged to forsake for want of porters 
at Shooa. He told me that all my effects that I had left 
at Obbo had been returned to Gondokoro, and that my 
two men, whom I had left in charge, had . returned with 
them to Khartoum, on board the vessel that had been 
sent for me from that place, but which had joined the 
traders' boats on their return voyage. Ibrahim had 
assured the captain that it was impossible that we could 
arrive during that year. It was thus fortunate that we 
had not pushed on for G-ondokoro after April in expec- 
tation of finding the boat awaiting us. However, "All's 
well that ends well," and Ibrahim was astounded at our 
success, but rather shocked at our personal appearance, 
as we were thin and haggard, and our clothes had been 
so frequently repaired that they would hardly hold toge- 
ther. 

On the 23d September we moved our camp, and took 
possession of a village within half a mile of the Victoria 
Nile. Kamrasi was now very valorous, and returned from 
his island to a large village on the banlis of the river. 
He sent Ibrahim an immense quantity of ivory, in addi- 
tion to the store that had been concealed by Eddrees 
on our departure from Kisoona ; this was sent for, and in 



230 INVASION OF THE LANGOO COUNTS.T. [Chap. VI. 

a few days it was safely deposited ia the general camp. 
Ibrahim was amazed at the fortune that awaited him. 
I congratulated him most heartily on the success of the 
two expeditions — the geographical, and the ivory trade; 
the latter haviag far more than fulfilled my promise. 

Kamrasi determiaed to invade the Langgo country 
immediately, as they had received Fowooka after his 
defeat, and he was now residing with the chief Ac- 
cordingly, eighty of Ibrahim's men were despatched across 
the river, and in three days they destroyed a number of 
villages, and captured about 200 head of cattle, together 
with a number of prisoners, including many, women. 
.Great rejoicings took place on their return ; Ibrahim pre- 
sented Kamrasi with a hundred cows, and in return for 
this generosity the king sent thirty immense tusks, and 
promised a himdred more within a few days. 

Another expedition was demanded, and was quickly 
undertaken with similar success ; this time Fowooka nar- 
rowly escaped, as a Turk fired at him, but missed and 
lulled a native who stood by him. On the return of the 
party, Kamrasi received another present of cattle, and 
again the ivory flowed into the camp. 

In the meantime, I had made myself excessively com- 
fortable; we were in a beautiful and highly cultivated 
district, in the midst of immense fields of sweet potatoes. 
The idea struck me that I could manufacture spirit from 



Chap. VI.] THE WHISKT DISTILIHRT. 231 

this source, as they were so excessively sweet as to he 
disagreeable as a vegetable. Accordingly I collected a 
great number of large jars that were used by the natives 
for brewing merissa; in these I boiled several hundred- 
weight of potatoes to a pulp. There were jars containing 
about twenty gallons ; these I filled with the pulp mashed 
with water, to which T added yeast from a brewing of 
merissa. While this mixture was fermenting I constructed 
my stiU, by fixing a jar of about twelve gallons on a neat 
furnace of clay, and inserting the mouth of a smaller jar 
upon the top ; the smaller jar thus inverted became the 
dome of the stiU. In the top of this I bored a hole, in 
which I fitted a long reed of about an inch in diameter, 
which descended to my condenser ; the latter was the 
kettle, sunk by a weight in a large pan of cold water. 
My still worked beautifully, and produced four or five 
bottles of good spirit daily; — this I stored in large bottle 
gourds, containing about four gallons each. My men were 
excessively fond of attending to the distillery, especially 
Kicharn, who took a deep interest in the operation, but 
who was frequently found dead asleep on his back; the 
fire out ; and the still at a standstill. Of course he could 
not be suspected of having tried the produce of his manu- 
factory ! I found an extraordinary change in my health 
from the time that I commenced drinking the potato 
whisky. Every day I drank hot toddy. I became strong. 



232 KAMBASI TRIES THE WHISKY. [Chap. VI. 

and from that time to the present day my fever left me; 
occurring only once or twice during the first six months, 
and then quitting me entirely. Not having tasted either 
wine or spirits for nearly two years, the sudden change 
from total abstinence to a moderate allowance of stimu- 
lant produced a marvellous effect. Ibrahim and some of 
his men established stiUs; several became intoxicated, 
which so delighted M'Gambi, who happened to be present, 
that he begged a bottle of spirit from Ibrahim as a sample 
for KamrasL It appears that the king got drunk so quickly 
upon the potent spirit, that he had an especial desire 
to repeat the dose — he called it the maroufi (cider) of our 
cotmtry, and pronounced it so far superior to his own that 
he determined to establish a factory. When I explained 
to him that it was the produce of sweet potatoes, he 
expressed his great regret that he had never sufficiently 
appreciated their value, and he expressed a determination 
to cultivate whole districts. Ibrahim was requested to 
leave one of his men who understood the management of 
a stni, to establish and undertake the direction of " King 
Kamrasi's Central African Unyoro Potato-Whisky Com- 
pany, unlimited." 

Ibrahim had brought a variety of presents for Kamrasi : 
fifty pounds of beads, a revolver pistol, cotton cloths, blue 
glass tumblers, looking-glasses, &c. These donations, added 
to the pleasure afforded by the defeat of his enemies, put 



Chap. VI.] BUTCHERIjES BT KAMBASI. 233 

his majesty into excellent humour, and he frequently came 
to visit us. On one occasion I gave him the portraits 
of Speke and Grant : the latter he recognised immediately ; 
he could not understand the pictures in Punch, declaring 
that he (Punch) was not an Englishman, as he neither 
resembled me nor Speke ; but he was exceedingly pleased 
with the Paris fashions in the Illustrated London News 
which we cut out with a pair of scissors, and gave him as 
specimens of English ladies in full dress. 

The war . being concluded by the total discomfiture of 
his enemies, Kamrasi was determined to destroy all those 
inhabitants of Foweera who had in any way connived at 
the attack of the M'was. Daily executions took place in 
the summary manner already described, the victims being 
captured, led before the king, and butchered in his pre- 
sence without a trial 

Among others suspected as favourable to revolution was 
Kallo^ the chief of Eoweera; next to Kamrasi and 
M'Gambi he was the principal man in the kingdom ; he 
was mucb beloved by the entire population of Chopi and 
Foweera, and I had always found him most intelligent and 
friendly. One nigbt, at about eight o'clock, Ibrahim came 
to my hut looking very mysterious, and after assuring 
, himself that no one was present, he confided to me that 
he had received orders from Kamrasi to attack Kallo^'s 
village before daybreak on the following morning, to 



234 KAMRASI ORDERS THE MVRDEtl OF KALLOE. [Ch. VI. 

surround Ms dwelling, and to shoot "him as lie attempted 
to escape ; Ibrahim was further instructed to capture the 
women and children of the- village as his perquisites. At 
the very moment that this treacherous compact had been 
entered into with Ibrahim, Kamrasi had pretended to be 
upon the most friendly terms with Kallo^, who was then 
iu his camp ; but he did not lay violent hands upon him, 
as, many of the natives being in his favour, the conse- 
quences might have been disagreeable: thus he had 
secretly ordered his destruction. I at once desired Ibrahim 
at all hazards to renounce so horrible a design. Never 
did I feel so full of revolution as at that moment ; my first 
impulse was to assist Kallo6 to dethrone Kamrasi, and to 
usurp the kingdom. Ibrahim had an eye to business ; he 
knew, that should he offend Kamrasi there would be an 
end to the ivory trade for the present. The country was 
so rich in ivory that it was a perfect bank upon which he 
could draw without limit, provided that he remaiued an 
ally of the king ; but no trade could be carried on with 
the natives, all business being prohibited by Kamrasi, who 
himseK monopolised the profits. In the event of war, not 
a tusk would be obtaiued, as the ivory in possession of the 
natives was never stored in their huts, but was concealed 
iu the earth. The Turks were now mercenaries employed 
by the king to do any bloody work that he might require. 
Ibrahim was in a dilemma. I offered to take the entire 



Chap. VI.] ATTEMPT TO SAFE KALLOE. 235 

onus upon myself. That Kallo^ should not be murdered I 
was determined ; the old man had on several occasions 
been very obliging to me and to my people, and I resolved 
to save him at any risk. His son, perfectly unsuspicious 
of evil, was at that moment in our camp, having frater- 
nized with some of my men. I sent for him immediately, 
and explained the entire plot, concluding by telling him 
to run that instant at full speed to his father (about two 
miles distant), and to send away all the women and 
children from the village, but to bring Kallo^ to my hut ; 
that I would hoist the British flag, as I had done at 
Kisoona, and this should protect him from the blood- 
thirsty Kamrasi, who would not dare to seize him. Should 
he refuse to trust me, he must fly immediately, as the 
Turks would attack the village before daybreak. Away 
started the astordshed son in the dark night at full speed 
along the well-known path, to give the warning. 

I now arranged with Ibrahim that to avoid offending 
Kamrasi he should make a false attack upon the village 
at the time appointed; he would find it deserted, and 
there would be an end of the matter should Kallo^ prefer 
flight to trusting in my protection, which I felt sure he 
would. Midnight arrived, and no signs of Kallo^ had 
appeared ; I went to sleep, satisfied that he was safe. 

Before daybreak eighty men of the Turks' party started 
.upon their feigned expedition; in about two hours they 



236 PURSUIT AND CAPTURE OF KALLOE. [Chap. VI. 

returned, having found the village deserted ; — the bird had 
flown. I was delighted at the success of this ruse, but I 
should have been more satisfied had Kallo^ placed himself 
in my hands : this I had felt sure he would decline, 
as the character of the natives is generally so false and 
mistrustful that he would suspect a snare. 

At about noon we heard yells ; drums were beating 
and horns blowing in all directions. For the moment 
I thought that Kallo^ had raised the country against 
Kamrasi, as I observed many hundred men dressed for 
war, scouring the beautiful open park, like hounds upon 
a scent. The Turks beat their drum and caleld their 
men under arms beneath the ensign planted outside the 
village, — not knowing the intention of the unusual 
gathering. It shortly transpired that Kamrasi had 
heard of the escape of KaUo^ and, enraged at the loss 
of his prey, he had immediately started about a thousand 
men in pursuit. 

In the evening I heard that he had been captured. 
I sent to Kamrasi directly, to beg him to postpone his 
execution, as I wished to speak with him on the following 
morning. 

At sunrise I started, and found the king sitting in his 
hut, while Kallo6 was lying under a plantain tree per- 
fectly resigned, with his leg in the Kamrasi shoe; — a 
block of wood of about four feet long and ten inches 



Chap. VI.] I INTERCEDE IN BIS BEHALF. 237 

thick (the rough trunk of a tree) ; his left foot had been 
thrust through a small hole in the log, while a peg driven 
through at right angles just above the iustep effectually 
secured the prisoner. This was a favourite punishment of 
the king ; the prisoner might thus languish until released 
by death ; — it was impossible to sit up, and dif&crdt to He 
down, the log having to be adjusted by an attendant 
according to the movement of the body. I told Kamrasi 
that as I had saved him from the attack of the Turks at 
Kisoona he must grant me a favour, and spare KaUo^'s 
Ufe: this req[uest, to my astonishment, he at once 
granted,* and added, that he should only keep him in 
the " shoe" for a few days, until his people should bring 
him a hundred cows as a fine, in which case he should 
release him. I had no faith in his promise, as I had 
before heard that it was his practice to put the shoe 
upon any rich man in order to extract a fine, upon the 
payment of which the unfortunate prisoner was on some 
occasions knied instead of liberated. However, I had 
done aU in my power; and had Kalloe been a man of 
determination, he could have saved, himself by trusting 
implicitly to me. As I returned to the camp, I could not 
help reflecting on the ingratitude I had experienced 
amoijg all the natives ; on many occasions I had exerted 
myself to benefit others in whom I had no personal 
• A few days afterwards he shot, Eallo^ with his own hands. 



238 ^ HEADMAN SHOT. [Chap. VI. 

interest, but in no single instance had I ever received 
even a look of gratitude. 

Two days after this occurrence I ordered the hoy Saat 
to go as usual in search of supplies to the neighbouring 
villages ; but as he was starting, Ibrahim advised him to 
wait a little, as something was wrong, and it would be 
dangerous to go alone. A few minutes later, I heard three 
shots fired in rapid succession at about three-CLuarters of 
a mile distant. The Turks and my men immediately 
thronged outside the village, which position being on a 
hUl, we had a panoramic view of the surrounding country. 
"We shortly perceived a number of men, including a few 
of the Turks' party, approaching from an opposite hill, 
carrying something heavy in their arms. With the 
telescope I distinguished a mat on which some object of 
weight was laboriously supported, the bearers grasping the 
comers in their hands. "One of our people is killed!" 
murmured one Turk. " Perhaps it's only a native," said 
another. "Who would trouble himself to carry a black 
fellow home ! " exclaimed a third. The mystery was soon 
cleared by the arrival of the party with the dead body 
of one of Kamrasi's headmen ; — one ball had struck him 
through the chest, another through the right arm, and the 
third had passed through the body from side to side. He 
had been shot by some Bari slaves who acted as soldiers 
belonging to the Turks' party. It appeared that the . 



Chap. VI.] THE WdRNINO. . 239 

deceased had formerly sent seventy elepliants' tusks to 
the people of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek against the orders 
of Kamrasi, who had prohibited the export of ivory from 
Ms kingdom, as he had agreed to deal exclusively with 
Ibrahim. The culprit was therefore condemned to death, 
but having some powerful adherents in his village, 
Kamrasi had thought it advisable to employ the Turks 
to shoot him; — this task they gladly accepted, as they 
were minus seventy tusks through his conduct. Without 
my knowledge, a small party had started in open daylight 
to his village close to our camp, and on attempting to 
enter the fence, several lances were thrown at the Turks ; 
the deceased rushed from the hut attempting to escape, 
and was immediately shot dead by three of the Bari 
soldiers. The hands were then (as usual in all these 
countries) amputated at the wrists, ia order to detach 
the copper bracelets; the body being dragged about two 
hundred paces from the village, was suspended by the 
neck to a branch of the tamarind tree. All the slave 
women (about seventy) and children were then driven 
down to the spot by the Turks to view the body as it 
swung from the branch; when thoroughly horrified by 
the sight, they were threatened to be served precisely 
in a similar manner should they ever attempt to escape. 
Superlatively brutal as this appeared, I could not help 
reflecting that our public executions in England convey 



240 POWHS OF KAMEASI. [Chap. VI, 

a similar moral ; tlie only difference being in tlie conduct 
of the women; tlie savages having to te driven to 
the sight as witnesses, while European females throng 
curiously to such disgusting exhibitions. A few minutes 
after the dep'arture of the crowd, the tree was covered 
with vultures, all watching the prospective feast.* 

In the evening Kamrasi sent a number of women and 
children as presents to Ibrahim ; altogether he had given 
him seventy -two slaves in addition to those captured in 
the various wars. There never was a more supreme 
despot than the king Kamrasi — ^not only the property, 
but the families of his subjects were at his disposal;— 
he boasted that "all belonged to him." Thus, when 
disposed to be liberal, he took from others and bestowed 
upon his favourites; should any sufferer complain, there 
were no lawyer's costs, but the "shoe," or deatL His 
power depended upon a perfect system of espionage, by 
which he obtained a knowledge of all that passed through- 
out his kingdom; — ^that being divided iato numerous 
small districts, each governed by a chief, who was 
responsible for the acts committed within his jurisdic- 
tion, the government was wonderfully simplified. Should 
a complaint be made against a governor, he was summoned 

* The woman Bacheeta ran away, and we never saw her again. Some 
time after, we he^d that she had escaped to Fowooka's people, fearing to 
be left hy us, as we had promised, in Chopi. 



Chap. VI.] HIS BODY-OVAHD. 241 

before the king ; if guilty, death, or the " shoe ! " To be 
suspected of rebellion, was to die. A body-guard of 
about 500 men, who were allowed to pillage the country 
at discretion, secured the power of the king, as with this 
organized force always at hand he could pounce upon the 
suspected and extinguish them at once: thus the tyrant 
held his sway over a population so timid that they yielded 
tamely to his oppression. Having now allied himself to 
the Turks, he had conceived the most ambitious views of 
conquering Uganda, and of restoring the ancient kiagdom 
of Kitwara; but the total absence of physical courage 
will utterly frustrate such plans for extension, and 
Kamrasi the Cruel will never be known as Kamrasi the 
Conqueror. 



CHAPTER VII. 

KAMRASPS ADIEU 

TT was the middle of November— not the wretched 
month that chills even the recollection of Old 
England, but the last of the ten months of rain that 
causes the wonderful vegetation of the fertile soil ia 
Equatorial Africa. The Turks were ready to return to 
Shooa, and I longed for the change from this brutal 
country to the stOl wilder but less bloody tribe of Madi, 
to the north. 

The quantity of ivory in camp was so large that we 
required 700 porters to carry both tusks and provisions, &c. 
for the five days' march through uninhabited country. 
Kamrasi came to see us before we parted; he had pro- 
vided the requisite porters. "We were to start on the 
following day ; he arrived with the BUssett rifle that had 
been given him by Speke. He told me that he was sorry 
we were going ; and he was much distressed that he had 
burst his rifle ! — he had hammered a large bullet in the 
endeavour to fit the bore ; and the lump of lead having 



Chap. VII.] . SEQQINQ TO I'EE LAST. 243 

stuck in the middle, he had fired his rifle and split the 
barrel, which being of remarkably good metal had simply 
opened. He told me that it did not matter so very much 
after aU, as he had neither powder nor ball — (this was 
false, as Ibrahim had just given him a quantity), therefore 
his rifle would have been useless if sound ; but he added, 
" You are now going home, where you can obtain all you 
require, therefore you will want for nothing; give me, 
before you leave, the little double-barrelled rifle that you 
promised me, and a supply of ammunition ! " To the last 
moment he was determined to persevere in his demand, 
and, if possible, to obtain my handy little Pletcher 24 rifle, 
that had been demanded and refused ever since my resi- 
dence in his country. I was equally persistent in my 
refusal, telling him that there were many dangers on the 
road, and I could not travel unarmed. 

On the following morning our people crossed the river ; 
this was a tedious operation, as our party consisted of 
about 700 porters and eighty armed men: Ibrahim had 
arranged to leave tlairty men with Kamrasi to protect him 
from the M'was until he should return in the following 
season, when he promised to bring him a great variety of 
presents. By 4 p.m. the whole party had crossed the 
river with ivory and baggage. "We now brought up the 
rear, and descended some fine crags of granite to the 
water's edge ; there were several large canoes ia attendance, 

k2 



244 WE QUIT KAMRASI'S TERRITORY. [Chap. VII. 

one of wliicli we occupied, and, landing on the opposite 
shore, we climhed up the steep ascent and looked back 
upon TJnyoro, in which we had passed ten months of 
wretchedness. It had poured with rain on the preceding 
day, and the natives had constructed a rough camp of 
grass huts. 

On the hreak of day on the 17th Novemher we started. 
It would be tedious to describe the journey, as, although 
by a different route, it was through the same cotmtry that 
we had traversed on our arrival from Shooa. After the 
first day's march we quitted the forest and entered upon 
the great prairies. I was astonished to find after several 
days' journey a great difference in the dryness of the 
climate. In Unyoro we had left the grass an intense 
green, the rain having been frequent : here it was nearly 
dry, and in many places it had been burnt by the native 
hunting parties. From some elevated points in the route 
I could distinctly make out the outline of the mountains 
running from the Albert lake to the north, on the west 
bank of the Nile ; these would hardly have been observed 
by a person who was ignorant of their existence, as the 
grass was so high that I had to ascend a white ant-hiQ to 
look for them ; they were about sixty nules distant, and 
my men, who knew them well, pointed them out to their 
companions. 

The entire party, iaoluding women and children, 



Chap. VII.] MARCH TO SHOOA. 245 

amounted to about 1,000 people. Although they had 
abundance of flour, there was no meat, and the grass being 
high there was no chance of game. On the fourth day 
only I saw a herd of about twenty t^tel (hartebeest) in an 
open space that had been recently burnt. We were both 
riding upon oxen that I had purchased of Ibrahim, and 
we were about a mUe ahead of the flag in the hope of 
getting a shot ; dismounting from my animal, I stalked, the 
game down a ravine, but upon reaching the point that I 
had resolved upon for the shot, I found the herd had 
moved their position to about 250 paces from me. They 
were all looking at me, as they had been disturbed by the 
oxen and the boy Saat in the distance. Dinner depended 
on the shot. There was a leafless bush singed by the 
recent fire ; upon a branch of this I took a rest, but just as 
I was going to fire they moved off — a clean miss ! — ^whizz 
went the bullet over them, but so close to the ears of one 
that it shook its head as though stung by a wasp, and 
capered round and round ; the others stood perfectly stiU, 
gazing at the oxen in the distance. Crack went the left- 
hand barrel of the little Fletcher 24, and down went a 
t^tel like a lump of lead, before the satisfactory sound of 
the bullet returned from the distance. Off went the herd, 
leaving a fine beast kicking on the groimd. It was shot 
through the spine, and some of the native porters, having 
witnessed the sport from a great distance, threw down their 



246 JRBIFE AT SHOOA. [Chap. Vii. 

loads and came racing towards the meat like a pack of 
wolves scenting blood. In a few minutes the prize was 
divided, while a good portion was carried by Saat for cm- 
own use; the t^tel, weighing about 500 lbs. vanished 
among the crowd iu a few miautes. 

On the fifth day's march from the Victoria Nile we 
arrived at Shooa ; the change was delightful after the wet 
-and dense vegetation of TJnyoro : the country was dry, 
and the grass low and of fine quality. We took possession 
of om-'camp, that had already been prepared for us in a 
large courtyard well cemented with cow-dung and clay, 
and fenced with a strong row of palisades. A large tree 
grew in the centre. Several huts were erected for inter- 
preters and servants, and a tolerably commodious hut, the 
roof overgrown with pumpkins, was arranged for our 
mansion. 

That evening the native women crowded to our camp to 
welcome my wife home, and to dance in honour of our 
return ; for which exhibition they expected a present 
of a cow. 

Much to my satisfaction, I found that my first-rate 
riding ox that had been lamed during the previous year by 
falling iato a pitfall, and had been returned to Shooa, was 
perfectly recovered ; thus I had a good mount for my. 
journey to Gondokoro. 

Some months were passed at Shooa, during which I 



Chap. VII.] THE LIRA TRIBE. 247 

occupied my time by rambling about the neighbourhood, 
ascending the mountain, making duplicates of my maps, 
and gathering information, all of which was simply a 
corroboration of what I had heard before, excepting from 
the East. The Turks had discovered a new country called 
lira, about thirty nules from Shooa ; the natives were 
reported as extremely friendly, and their country as won- 
derfully fertile and rich in ivory. Many of the people 
were located in the Turks' camp ; they were the same type 
as the Madi, but wore their hair in a different form : it 
was woven into a thick felt, which covered the shoulders, 
and extended as low upon the back as the shoulder-blade. 
They were not particular about wearing false hair, but 
were happy to receive subscriptions from any source ; in 
case of death the hair of the deceased was immediately 
cut off and shared among his friends to be added to their 
felt. "When in full dress (the men being naked) this mass 
of felt was plastered thickly with a bluish clay, so as to 
form an even surface; this was most elaborately worked 
with the poiat of a thorn, so as to resemble the cuttiags of 
a file : white pipe-clay was then arranged iu patterns on 
the surface, wliile an ornament made of either an ante- 
lope's or giraffe's sinew was stuck in the extremity and 
turned up for about a foot in length. This when dry was 
as stiff as horn, and the tip was ornamented with a tuft 
of fur— the tip of a leopard's tail being highly prized. 



248 NJTIFES' AND LAWTBBS' WIOS. [Chap. VII. 

I am not aware that any Lord Chancellor of England or 
any member of the English bar has ever penetrated to 
Central Africa, therefore the origin of the fashion and the 
similarity in the wigs is most extraordinary ; a weU- 
blacked barrister in ftiU wig and nothing else would 
thoroughly impersonate a native of Lira. The tribe of 
Lira was governed by a chief ; but he had no more real 
authority than any of the petty chiefs who ruled the 
various portions of the Madi country. Throughout the 
tribes, excepting the kingdom of Unyoro, the chiefs had 
very little actual power, and so uncertain was their tenure 
of oflice that the rule seldom remained two generations in 
one family. On the death of the father, the numerous 
sons generally quarrelled for his property and for the right 
of succession, endiag in open war, and in dividing the 
flocks and herds, each settling in a separate district and 
becoming a petty chief ; thus there was no union through- 
out the country, and consequently great weakness. The 
people of Lira were fighting with their friends the Langgos 
— ^those of Shooa with the natives of Eatiko; nor were 
there two neighbouring tribes that were at peace. It was 
natural that such unprincipled parties as the Khartoum 
traders should turn this general discord to their own 
advantage ; thus within the ten months that I had been 
absent from Shooa a great change had taken place in 
the neighbourhood. ' The rival parties of Koorshid and 



Chap. VII.] BESULT OF THJE TURKS' RAZZIAS. 249 

Debono, under their respective leaders, Ibratim and 
Mahommed Wat-el-Mek, bad leagued themselves with 
contending tribes, and the utter ruin of the country was 
the conseq[uence. For many miles' circuit from Shooa, the 
blackened ruins of villages and deserted fields bore witness 
to the devastation committed; cattle that were formerly 
in thousands, had been driven off, and the beautiful dis- 
trict that had once been most fertile was reduced to a 
wilderness. By these wholesale acts of robbery and de- 
struction the Turks had damaged their own interests, as 
the greater number of the natives had fled to other coun- 
tries ; thus it was most difficult to obtain porters to convey 
the ivory to Gondokoro. The people of the country had 
been so spoiled by the payment in cows instead of beads 
for the most trifling services, that they now refused to 
serve as porters to Gondokoro under a payment of four 
cows each ; thus, as 1,000 men were required, 4,000 
cows were necessary as payment. Accordingly razzias 
must be made. 

Upon several expeditions, the Turks realized about 
2,000 cows ; the natives had become alert, and had driven off 
their herds to inaccessible mountains. Debono's people at 
their camp, about twenty-five miles distant, were even in a 
worse position than Ibrahim ; they had so exasperated the 
natives by their brutal conduct, that tribes formerly hostile 
to each other now coalesced and combined to thwart the 



250 LOSS OF CATTLE BT THE TUBES. [Chap. VII. 

Turks by declining to act as porters ; thus their supply of 
ivory cotild not be transported to Gondokoro. This led to 
extra violence on the part of the Turks, until at last the 
chief of Faloro (WerdeUa) declared open war, and sud- 
denly driving off the Turks' cattle, he retired to the 
mountains, from whence he sent an impertinent message 
inviting Mahommed to try to rescue them. 

This act of insolence united the rival trading parties 
agaiust Werdella : those of Ibrahim and Mahommed 
agreed to join in an attack upon his village. They started 
with a force of about 300 armed men, and arriving at the 
foot of the mountains at about 4 A.M. they divided their 
force into two parties of 150 men each, and ascended the 
rocky hill upon two sides, intending to surprise the village 
on one side, while the natives and their herds would be 
intercepted in their flight upon the other. 

The chief, Werdella, was well experienced in the affairs 
of the Turks, as he had been for two or three years eii- 
gaged with them in many razzias upon the adjoining tribes ; 
— he had learnt to shoot while acting as their ally, and 
having received as presents two muskets, and two brace of 
pistols from Debono's nephew Amabil^ he thought it 
advisable to supply himself with ammunition ; he had 
therefore employed his people to steal a box of 500 car- 
ridges anda parcel containing 10,000 percussion caps from 
Mahommed's camp. Werdella was a remarkably plucky 



Chap. VII.] THE FIGHT WITH WERDHLLA. 251 

fellow; and thus strengthened by powder and ball, and 
knowing the character of the Turks, he resolved to fight. 

Hardly had the Turks' party of 150 men advanced half 
way up the mountain path in their stealthy manner of 
attempting a surprise, when they were assailed by a shower 
of arrows, and the leader who carried the flag fell dead at 
the report of a musket fired from behind a rock. Startled 
at this unexpected attack, the Turks' party recoiled, leaving 
their flag upon the ground by the dead standard-bearer. 
Before they had time to recover from their first panic, 
another shot was fired from the same shelter at a distance 
of about thirty paces, and the brains of one of the Turks' 
party were splattered over his comrades, as the ball took 
the top of his head completely off. Three Bagara Arabs, 
first-rate elephant-hunters, who were with the Turks, now 
rushed forward and saved the flag and a box of ammuni- 
tion that the porter had thrown down in his flight. These 
Arabs, whose courage was of a different class to that of 
the traders' party, endeavoured to rally the panic-stricken 
Turks, but just as they were feebly and irresolutely ad- 
vancing, another shot rang from the same fatal rock, and a 
man who carried a box of cartridges fell dead. This was 
far too hot for the traders' people, who usually had it aU 
their own way, being alone possessed of fire-arms. A dis- 
graceful flight took place, but Werdella was again too 
much for them. On their arrival at the bottom of the hiU^ 



252 WEBDELLA DEFEATS THE TURKS. [Chap. VII 

they ran round the base* to join the other division of their 
party; this effected, they were consulting together as to 
retreat or advance, when close ahove their heads from an 
overhanging rock another shot was fired, and a man 
dropped, shot through the chest. The head of Werdella 
was distinctly seen grinning in triumph ; — the whole party 
fired at him ! " He's down ! " was shouted, as the head 
disappeared ; — a puff of smoke from the rock, and a shriek 
from one of the Turks at the sound of another musket- 
shot from the same spot, settled the question ; a man fell 
mortally wounded. Four men were shot dead, and one 
was brought home by the crestfallen party to die in two or 
three days ; five shots had been fired, and five killed, 

' by one native armed with two guns against 300 men. 
"Bravo, Werdella!" I exclaimed, as the beaten party 
returned to camp and Ibrahim described the fight. He 
deserved the Victoria Cross. This defeat completely cowed 

^ the cowardly Turks ; nor would any persuasions on the 
part of Ibrahim induce them to make another razzia 
within the territory of the redoubted chief, Werdella. 

During the absence of the traders' party upon various 
expeditions, about fifty men were left in their camp as 
head-quarters. Nothing could exceed the brutality of the 
people ; — they had erected stills, and produced a powerful 
corn spirit from the native merissa ; — their entire time was 
passed ia gambling, drinking, and fighting, both by night 



Chap. VII.] MURDER OF A NATIVE. 253 

and day. Tlie natives were ill-treated, their female slaves 
and children brutally Ol-used, and the entire camp was a 
mere slice from the infernal regions. My portion of the 
camp being a secluded courtyard, we were fortunately 
independent. 

On one occasion a razzia had been made ; and although 
unsuccessful in cattle, it had been productive in slaves. 
Among the captives was a pretty young girl of about 
fifteen; she had been sold by auction iu the camp, as 
usual, the day after the return from the razzia, and had 
fallen to the lot of one of the men. Some days after her 
capture, a native from the village that had been plundered 
confidently arrived at the camp with the intention of offer- 
ing ivory for her ransom. Hardly had he entered the 
gateway, when the girl, who was sitting at the door of her 
owner's hut, caught sight of him, and springing to her feet, 
she ran as fast as her chained ankles would allow her, and 
threw herself in his arms, exclaiming, "My father!" It 
was her father, who had thus risked liis life in the enemy's 
camp to ransom his child. 

The men who were witnesses to this scene immediately 
rushed upon the unfortunate man, tore him from his 
daughter, and boimd him tightly with cords. 

While this was enacting, I happened to be in my hut : 
thus I was not an eye-witness. About an hour later, I 
called some of my men to assist me in cleaning some rifles. 



254 SUN AW AT SLAVES HECAFTUREB. [Chap. VII. 

Hardly had we commenced, wlien three shots were fired 
within a hundred paces of my hut. My men exclaimed, 
" They have shot the Abid (native) ! " " What native ? " I 
inquired. They then related the story I have just de- 
scribed. Brutal as these blood-thirsty villains were, I could 
hardly believe in so cold-blooded a murder. I immediately 
sent my people and the boy Saat to verify it ; they returned 
with the report that the wretched father was sitting on the 
ground, bound to a tree, — dead ; shot by three balls. 

I must do Ibrahim the justice to explain that he was 
not in the camp ; had he been present, tliis murder would 
not have been committed, as he scrupulously avoided any 
such acts iu my vicinity. A few days later, a girl about 
sixteen, and her mother, who were slaves, were miss- 
ing ; they had escaped. The hue and cry. was at once 
raised. Ibrahimawa, the "Sinbad" of Bomu, who had 
himself been a slave, was the most indefatigable slave- 
hunter. He and a party at once started upon the tracks 
of the fugitives. They did not return until the following 
day ; but where was the runaway who could escape from 
so true a bloodhound? The young girl and her mother 
were led into camp tied together by the neck, and were 
immediately condemned to be hanged. I happened to be 
present, as, knowing the whole affair, I had been anxiously 
awaiting the result. I took this opportunity of explaining 
to the Turks that I would use any force to prevent such an 



Chap. VII.] SmjTAUTT OF THE TUBES. 255 

act, and that I wouLd report the names of all those to the 
Egyptian authorities who should commit any murder that 
I could prove ; neither would I permit the two captives to 
be flogged — ^they were accordingly pardoned.* 

There was among the slaves a woman who had been 
captured in the attack upon Fowooka. This woman I have 
already mentioned as having a very beautiful boy, who at 
the time of the capture was a little more than a year old. 
So determined was her character, that she had run away 
five times with her child, but on every occasion she had 
been recaptured, after having suffered much by hunger and 
thirst in endeavouring to find her way back to Unyoro 
through the uninhabited wilderness between Shooa and 
Karuma. On the last occasion of her capture, the Turks 
had decided upon her being incorrigible, therefore she had 
received 144 blows with the coorbatch (hippopotamus 
whip), and had been sold separately from her child to the 
, party belonging to Mahommed Wat-el-Mek. Little Abbai 
had always been a great pet of Mrs. Baker's, and the un- 
fortunate child being now motherless, he was naturally 
adopted, and led a most happy life. Although much under 
two years old, he was quite equal in precocity to a European 

* It wiUbe observed that at this period of the expedition I had acquired 
an extraordinary influence over the people, that enabled me to exert an 
authority which saved the lives of many unfortunate creatures who would 
otherwise have been victims, 



256 LITTLE ABBAL [Chap. VII. 

child of three ; in form and strength he was a young Her-, 
cules, and, although so young, he would frequently follow 
me out shooting for two or three miles, and return home 
with a guinea-fowl hangiug over his shoulder, or his hands 
full of pigeons. Abbai became very civilized; he was 
taught to make a Turkish " salaam " upon receiving a 
present, and to wash his hands both before and after his 
meals. He had the greatest objection to eat alone, and he 
generally invited three or four friends of about his own age 
to dine with him ; on such occasions, a large wooden bowl, 
about twenty inches in diameter, was filled with soup and 
porridge, around which steaming dish the yoimg party sat, 
happier ia their slavery than kings in power. There were 
two lovely girls of three and eight years of age that be- 
longed to Ibrahim; these were not black, but of the same 
dark brown tint as Kamrasi and many of the Unyoro 
people. Their mother was also there, and their history 
being most pitiable, they were always allowed free access 
to our hut and the dinner bowL These two girls were the 
daughters of Owine, one of the great chiefs who were 
allied with Fowooka against Kamrasi. After the defeat of 
Fowooka, Owine and many of his people with their families 
quitted the country, and forming an alliance with Ma- 
hommed "Wat-el-Mek, they settled in the neighbourhood of 
his camp at Faloro, and built a vlUage. For some time 
they were on the best terms, but some cattle of the Turks 



Chap. VII.] TEE CHILLS.EN OF TEE CAMP. 257 

being missed, suspicion fell upon tlie new settlers. The 
men of Mahommed's party desired that they might be 
expelled, and Mahommed, in a fit of drunken fury, at once 
ordered them to be massacred. His men, eager for mtuder 
and plimder, immediately started upon their bloody errand, 
and surrounding the unsuspecting colony, they fired the 
huts and killed every man, including the < chief, Owine; 
capturing the women and children as slaves. Ibrahim 
had received the mother and two girl^ as presents from 
Mahommed Wat-el-Mek. As the two rival companies had 
been forced to fraternize, owing to the now generally hostile 
attitude of the surrounding tribes, the leaders had become 
wonderfully polite, exchanging presents, getting drunk 
together upon raw spirits, and behaving in a brotherly 
manner — according to their ideas of fraternity. There was 
a peculiar charm in the association with children in this 
land of hardened hearts and savage natures : there is a 
time in the life of the most savage animal when infancy is 
free from the fierce instincts of race ; even the lion's whelp 
will fondle the hand that it would tear in riper years: 
thus, separated in this land of horrors from all civilization, 
and forced by hard necessity into the viciaity of all that 
was brutal and disgusting, it was an indescribable relief to 
be surrounded by those who were yet innocent, and who 
clung in their forsaken state to those who looked upon 
them with pity. We had now six little dependents, none 
VOL. n. s 



258 PLEASANT TIME WITH CHILDREN. [Chap. VII. 

of whom could ever belong to us, as they were aU slaves, 
but who were well looked after by my wife ; fed, amused, 
and kept clean. The boy Abbai was the greatest favourite, 
as, having neither father nor mother, he claimed the 
greatest care : he was well washed every morning, and 
then to his great delight smeared aU over from head to 
toes with red ochre and grease, with a cock's feather stuck 
in his woolly pate. He was then a most charming pet 
savage, and his toilette completed, he invariably sat next 
to his mistress, drinking a gourd-shell of hot nulk, while I 
smoked my early morning pipe beneath the tree. I made 
bows and arrows for my boys, and taught them to shoot at 
a mark, a large pumpkin being carved into a man's head 
to excite their aim. Thus the days were passed until the 
evening; at that time a large fire was lighted to create a 
blaze, drums were collected, and after dinner a grand dance 
was kept up by the children, until the yoimg Abbai ended 
regularly by creeping under my wife's chair, and falling 
sound asleep : from this protected spot he was carried to 
his mat, wrapped up in a piece of old flannel (the best 
cloth we had), in which he slept till morning. Poor little 
Abbai ! I often wonder what will be his fate, and whether 
in his dreams he recalls the few months of happiness that 
brightened his earliest days of slavery. 

Although we were in good health in Shooa, many of the 
men were iU, suffering generally from headache ; also from 



Chap. VII.] SHOOT A CROCODILE. 259 

ulcerated legs ; — ^the latter was a peculiar disease, as the 
ulcer generally comraenced upon tlie ankle bone and ex- 
tended to such a degree that the patient was rendered 
incapable of waiting. The treatment for headache among 
all the savage tribes was a simple cauterization of the 
forehead in spots burnt with a hot iron close to the root's, 
of the hair. The natives declared that the water was 
imwholesome from the small stream at the foot of the hill,, 
and that all those who drank from the well were in good 
health. I went down to examine the spring, which I found 
beautifully clear, while the appearance of the stream was 
quite sufficient to explain the opposite quality. As I was 
walking quietly along the bank, I saw a bright ray of 
light in the grass upon the opposite side ; in another 
moment I perceived the head of a crocodile which was 
concealed in the grass, the brightness of the sun's reflection 
upon the eye having attracted my attention. A shot with 
the little 24 rifle struck just above the eye and killed 
it; — ^it was a female, from which we extracted seven 
large eggs, all with hard shells. 

The shooting that I had while at Shooa was confined 
to antelopes ; of these there was no variety exceptiag 
waterbuck and hartebeest. Whenever I shot an animal, 
the Shooa natives would invariably cut its throat, and 
drink the hot blood as it gushed from the artery. In 
this neighbourhood there was a great scarcity of game ; 

s2 



260 



rUE BUCK RRINOCEBOS. 



[Chap. VII. 



the natives of Lira described their country as teeming with 
elephants and rhinoceros ; a fine horn of the latter they 
brought with them to Shooa. There is only one variety 
of rhinoceros that I have met with in the portions of 




HEAD OF BLACK EHI^O^.EIvUb 



Africa that I have visited : this is the two-horned, a 
very exact sketch of which I made of the head of one 
that I cut off after I had shot it. This two-horned black 
rhinoceros is extremely vicious. I have remarked that 
they almost invariably charge any enemy that they smell, 
but do not see ; they generally retreat if they observe the ¦ 
oliject before obtaining the wind. 



Chap. VII.] 



THE LIRA CHIIF. 



261 



In my rambles in search of game, I found two varieties 
of cotton growing indigenous to tlie country : one witli 
a yellow Mossom was so short in the staple as to ha 
wortUess, but the other (a red blossom) produced a fine 
quality that was detached with extreme ease from the 
seeds. A sample of this variety I brought to England, 




THE CHIEF OF THE LIEA TRIBE. 



and deposited the seed at the Eoyal Botanical Gardens 
at Ivew. A large quantity was reported to be grown at 
Lira, some of which was brought me by the chief ; this 



262 NATIVE USB OF D0NKET8. [Chap. VII. 

was the inferior kind. I sketched the old chief of Lira, 
who when in full dress wore a curious ornament of cowrie- 
shells upon his felt wig that gave him a most comical 
appearance, as he looked like the caricature of an English 
judge. The Turks had extended their excursions ia their 
search for ivory, and they returned from an expedition 
sixty miles east of Shooa, bringing with them two donkeys 
that they had obtained from the natives. This was an 
interesting event, as for nearly two years I had heard from 
the natives of Latooka, and from those of Unyoro, that 
donkeys existed in a country to the east. These animals 
were the same in appearance as those of the Soudan; — 
the natives never rode, but simply used them to transport 
wood from the forest to their villages ; — the people were 
reported as the same in language and appearance as the 
lira tribe. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 

THE NATIVES IN MOURNING. 

rpHE hour of deliverance from our long sojourn in 
Central Africa was at hand ; — it was the month of 
February, and the boats would be at Gondokoro. The 
Turks had packed their ivory; the large tusks were 
fastened to poles to be carried by two men, and the camp 
was a perfect mass of this valuable material. I counted 
609 loads of upwards of &0 lbs. each ; thirty-one loads 
were lying at an out-station : therefore the total results 
of the ivory campaign during the last twelve months 
were about 32,000 lbs., equal to about £9,630 when 
delivered in Egypt. This was a perfect fortime for 
Koorshid. 

We were ready to start. My baggage was so unimpor- 
tant that I was prepared to forsake everything, and to 
march straight for Gondokoro independently with my own 
men; but this the Turks assured me was impracticable, 
as the country was so hostile in advance that we must 
of necessity have some fighting on the road ; the Bari 



264 ' RESULTS OF THE IVOBT CAMPAIGN. [Chap. VIII. 

tribe would dispute our right to pass through their ter- 
ritory. The porters were all engaged to transport the 
ivory, but I observed that the greater number were in 
mourning for either lost friends or cattle, having ropes 
twisted round their necks and waists, as marks of sorrow. 
About 800 men received payment of cattle in advance ; — 
the next day they had all absconded with their cows, 
having departed during the night. This was a planned 
affair to "spoil the Egyptians : " a combination had been 
entered into some months before by the Madi and Shooa 
tribes, to receive payment and to abscond, but to leave 
the Turks helpless to remove their stock of ivory. The 
people of Mahommed Wat-el-Mek were in a similar 
dilemma ; not a tusk could be delivered at Gondokoro. 
This was not my affair. The greater portion of Ibrahim's 
iromense store of ivory had been given to him by 
Kamrasi ; I had guaranteed him a hundred cantars 
(10,000 lbs.) should he quit Obbo and proceed to the 
unknown south; — ia addition to a large quantity that 
he had collected and delivered at Gondokoro in the past 
year, he had now more than three times that amount. 
Although Kamrasi had on many occasions offered the 
ivory to me, I had studiously avoided the acceptance of 
a single tusk, as I vrished the Turks to believe that T 
would not mix myself up with trade in any form, and that 
my expedition had purely the one object that I had ex- 



Chap. VIII.] PREPARATIONS FOR RETURN HOME. 265 

plained to Ibrahim wlien I first won him over on the road 
to Ellyxia more than two years ago, — " the discovery of the 
Albert lake." With a certain number of presents of first- 
class forty-guinea rifles and guns, &c. &c., to Ibrahim, I 
declared my intention of starting for Gondokoro. My 
trifling articles of baggage were packed : a few of the Lira 
natives were to act as porters, as, although the ivory could 
not be transported, it was necessary for Ibrahim to send 
a strong party to Gondokoro to procure ammunition and 
the usual supplies forwarded annually from Khartoum ; — 
the Lira people who carried my luggage would act as 
return porters. 

The day arrived for our departure; — the oxen were 
saddled and we were ready to start. Crowds of people 
came to say " good bye," but, dispensing with the hand- 
kissing of the Turks who were to remain in camp, we pre- 
pared for our journey towards homc'. Far away although 
it was, every step would bring us nearer. Nevertheless 
there were ties even in this wild spot, where all was savage 
and unfeeling — ties that were painful to sever, and that 
caused a sincere regret to both of us when we saw our 
little flock of unfortunate slave children crying at the idea 
of separation. In this moral desert, where aU humanized 
feelings were withered and parched Like the sands of 
the Soudan, the guilelessness of the children had been 
welcomed like springs of water, as the only refreshing 



266 PART BE0RETFULL7 WITH CHILDREN. [Chap. VIII. 

feature in a land of sin and darkness. " Where are you 
going ? " cried poor little Abbai in the broken Arabic that 
we had taught him. " Take me with you, Sitty ! " (lady), 
and he followed us down the path, as we regretfully left 
our protdg^s, with his fi^ts tacked into his eyes, weeping 
from his heart, although for his own mother he had not 
shed a tear. We could not take him with us ; — he be- 
longed to Ibrahim ; and had I purchased the child to 
rescue him from his hard lot and to rear him as a civilized 
being, I might have been charged with slave deahng. 
With heavy hearts we saw him taken up in the arms of 
a woman and carried back to camp, to prevent him from 
following our party, that had now started. 

We had turned our backs fairly upon the south, and 
we now travelled for several days through most beautiful 
park-like lands, crossing twice the XJn-y-Am6 stream, that 
rises in the country between Shooa and Unyoro, and 
arriving at the point of junction of this river with the 
Nile, in latitude 3° 32' K On the north bank of the 
Un-y-Am6, about three miles from the embouchure of that 
river where it flows into the Nile, the tamarind tree was 
shown me that forms the limit of Signer Miani's journey 
from Gondokoro, the extreme point reached by any traveller 
from the north until the date of my expedition. This tree 
bore the name of " Shedder-el-Sowar'' (the traveller's tree), 
by which it was known to the traders' parties. Several of 



Chap. VIII.] "THE TRAVELLER'S TBEB." 267 

the men belonging to Ibrahim, also Mahommed Wat-el- 
Mek, the vakeel of Debono's people, had accompanied 
Signor Miani on his expedition to this spot. Loggo, the 
Bari interpreter, who had constantly acted for me during 
two years, happened to have been the interpreter of Signor 
Miani ; — he confessed to me how he had been compelled 
by his master's escort to deceive him, by pretending that a 
combiaed attack was to be made upon them by the natives. 
Upon this excuse, Miani's men refused to proceed, and 
determiaed to turn back to Gondokoro; — thus ended his 
expedition. I regarded the tree that marked the limit of 
his journey with much sympathy. I remembered how I 
had formerly contended with similar difficulties, and how 
heart-breaking it would have been to have returned, baffled 
by the misconduct of my own people, when the determi- 
nation of my heart urged me forward to the south ; — thus 
I appreciated the disappointment that so enterprising a 
traveller must have felt in sorrowfully cutting his name 
upon the tree, and leaving it as a record of misfortune. 
With a just tribute to the perseverance that had carried 
him farther than any European traveller had penetrated 
before him, we continued our route over a most beautiful 
park of verdant grass, diversified by splendid tamarind 
trees, the dark foliage of which afforded harbour for great 
numbers of the brilliant yellow-breasted pigeon. We 
shortly ascended a rocky mountain by a stony and diffi- 



268 VIEW OF TEE NILE. [Chap. VIII. 

cult pass, and upon arrival at the summit, about 800 feet 
above the Nile, which lay in front at about two miles' dis- 
tance, we halted to enjoy the magnificent view. "Hurrah 
for the old Nile ! " I exclaimed, as I revelled in the scene 
before me : here it was, fresh from its great parent, the 
Albert lake, in aU the grandeur of Africa's mightiest river. 
From our elevated point we looked down upon a broad 
sheet of unbroken water, winding through marshy ground, 
flowing from "VV.S.W. The actual breadth of clear .water, 
independent of the marsh and reedy banks, was about 400 
yards, but, as usual in the deep and flat portions of the 
White Nile, the great extent of reeds growing in deep 
water rendered any estimate of the positive width ex- 
tremely vagua We could discern the course of this great 
river for about twenty miles, and distinctly trace the line 
of mountains on the west bank that we had seen at about 
sixty miles' distance when on the route from Karuma to 
Shooa; — the commencement of this chain we had seen 
when at Magungo, forming the Koshi frontier of the Nile. 
The country opposite to the point on which we now stood 
was Koshi, which, forming the west bank of the Nile, 
extended the entire way to the Albert lake. The country 
that we occupied was Madi, which extended as the east 
bank of the Nile to the angle of the Victoria Nile (or 
Somerset river) junction opposite Magungo. These two 
countries, Koshi and Madi, we had seen from Magungo 



Chap. VIII.] 6EBEL KOOKOO. 269 

when we liad viewed the exit of the Nile from the lake, as 
though a tan-like continuation of the water, until lost in the 
distance of the interminable valley of high reeds. Having, 
from Magungo, in lat. 2° 16', looked upon the course of the 
river far to the north, and from the high pass, our present 
point, in lat. 3° 34' N"., we now comprised an extensive 
view of the river to the south; the extremities of the 
limits of view from north and south would almost meet, 
and leave a mere trifle of a few miles not actually in- 
spected. 

Exactly opposite the summit of the pass from which we 
now scanned the country, rose the precipitous mountain 
known as Gebel Kookoo, which rose to a height of about 
2,500 feet above the level of the Ifile, and formed the pro- 
minent feature of a chain which bordered the west bank of 
the Nile with few breaks to the north, until within thirty 
miles of Gondokoro. The pass upon which we stood was 
the southern extremity of a range of high rocky hOls that 
formed the east cliff of the Nile; — thus the broad and 
noble stream that arrived from the Albert lake in a sheet 
of unbroken water received the Un-y-Am^ river, and then 
suddenly entered the pass between the two chaias of hills, 
— Gebel Kookoo on the west, and the ridge that we now 
occupied upon the east. The mouth of the Un-y-Am6 
river was the Umit of navigation from the Albert lake. 
As far as the eye could reach to the south-west, the 



270 ON SPEKE AND GRANT'S ROUTE. [Chap. VIII. 

country was dead flat and marshy throughout the course 
of the river : this appearance proving the correctness of the 
information I had received from the natives of Unyoro, and 
from Kamrasi himself, that the Nile was navigable for some 
days' journey from the Albert lake. Precisely the same 
information had been given to Speke, and the river level at 
this point showed by his thermometer so great a difference 
between that of Karuma, that he had concluded the faU of 
1,000 feet must exist between the foot of Karuma Falls 
and the Albert lake ; — this, as already described, I proved 
to be 1,275 feet. 

It would be impossible to describe the calm enjoyment 
of the scene from this elevated pass, from which we con- 
firmed the results of our own labours and of Speke's well- 
reflected suggestions. We were now on the track by 
which he and Grant had returned ; but I believe they had 
rounded the foot of the hill that we had ascended; — the 
two routes led to the same point, as our course brought us 
at right angles with the Nile that flowed beneath us. 
Descending the pass through a thorny jungle, we arrived 
at the river, and turning suddenly to the north, we fol- 
lowed its course for about a mile, and then bivouacked for 
the evening. The Nile having entered the valley between 
Gebel Kookoo and the western range, was no longer the 
calm river that we had seen to the south : numerous rocky 
islands blocked its course, and mud-banks covered with 



Chap. VIIL] CHANGES IN THE NILE. 271 

papyras rusli so obstructed the stream that the riyer 
widened to about a mile, — this width was composed of 
numerous channels, varying in breadth between the ob- 
structing rock and island. Upon one of the rush-covered 
islands a herd of elephants was discovered, almost con- 
cealed by the height of the vegetation. As they ap- 
proached the edge of the water and became exposed, I 
tried about twenty shots at them with the Fletcher rifle, 
sighted to 600 yards, but in no instance could I either 
touch or disturb them by the bullets ; — this will afford 
some idea of the width of the river, the island appearing 
to be in the middle of the stream. 

A short distance below this spot, the Nile rapidly con- 
tracted, and at length became a roaring torrent, passing 
through a narrow gorge between perpendicular cliffs, with 
a tremendous current. In some places the great river was 
pent up between rocks, which confined it to a width of 
about 120 yards, — ^through such channels the rush of water 
was terrific, but to a casual observer approaching from the 
north, the volume of the NUe would have been underrated, 
unless calculated by the velocity of the stream. 

From this point we followed the bank of the Nile over 
a difficult route, down steep ravines and up precipitous 
crags, by a wrading path along the foot of the range of 
syenite hUls that hemmed in the river on the west bank. 
Several considerable waterfalls added to the grandeur of 



272 THE ASUA BIFEB. [Chap. VIII. 

the pass, through which for many miles the angry Nile 
chafed and roared like a lion in its confined den. 

At length we arrived at a steep descent, and dismount- 
ing from our oxen after a walk of about a quai-ter of a 
mile over rough stones, we reached the Asua river, ahout 
a quarter of a mile above its junction with the NUe. The 
bed was rocky ; but although the Atabbi had subscribed 
its waters above the point where we now crossed, there 
was merely a trifling stream occupying about a quarter of 
the river's bed, with a current of about two and a half 
miles an hour. Crossing this on foot, the water in the 
deepest part reached to thB middle of my thighs. The 
Asua river, as already described at the time that I crossed 
it on the route from Farajoke to Shooa, is a mountain 
torrent formi-dable during the rains ; quickly flooding and 
quickly emptying from its rapid iaclination, it is exhausted 
during the dry season. 

The crossing of this river was a signal for extra precau- 
tion in the arrangement of our march : we had entered the 
territory of the ever hostile Bari tribe ; we had been 
already warned that we could not pass to Gondokoro 
without being attacked. 

We slept on the road, about seven miles to the north 
of the Asua. On the following morning we started. The 
route led over a fine country parallel with the Nile, that 
still continued in a rock-bound channel on the west of the 



Chap. VIIL] SUSPICIOUS MOFJEMENTS OF NATIVES. 273 

march. Throughout the route from the Un-y-Am^ junc- 
tion, the soil had been wretchedly poor, — a mass of rock 
and decomposed granite forming a sand that quicldy 
parched during the dry season. The level of the country 
being about 200 feet above the Nile, deep gullies cut the 
route at right angles, forming the natural drains to the 
river. 

In these ravines grew dense thickets of bamboos. 
Having no native guide, but trusting solely to the traders' 
people, who had travelled frequently by this route, we lost 
the path, and shortly became entangled amongst the 
numerous ravines. At length we passed a village, around 
which were assembled a number of natives. Having re- 
gained the route, we observed the natives appearing in 
various directions, and as quickly disappearing only to 
gather in our front in increased numbers. Their move- 
ments exciting suspicion, in a country where every man 
was an enemy, our party closed together ; — we threw out 
an advance guard, — ten men on either flank, — the porters, 
ammunition, and effects in the centre ; while about ten 
men brought up the rear. Before us lay two low rocky 
hiUs covered with trees, high grass, and brushwood, in 
which I distinctly observed the bright red forms of natives 
painted according to the custom of the Bari tribe. 

We were evidently in for a fight. The path lay in a 
gorge between the low rocky hiUs ia advance. My wife 

VOL. n. T 



274 ATTACKED IN THE PASS. [Chap. VIII. 

dismounted from her ox, and walked at the head of our 
party with me, Saat following beMnd with the gun that he 
usually carried, while the men drove several riding-oxen 
in the centre. Hardly had we entered the pass, when — 
whizz went an arrow over our heads. This was the signal 
for a repeated discharge. The natives ran among the 
rocks with the agUity of monkeys, and showed a consider- 
able amount of daring in standing within about eighty 
yards upon the ridge, and taking steady shots at us with 
their poisoned arrows. The flanking parties now opened 
fire, and what with the bad shooting of both the escort 
and the native archers, no one was wounded on either side 
for the first ten minutes. The rattle of musketry, and the 
¦wild appearance of the naked vermilion-coloured savages, 
as they leapt along the craggy ridge, twanging their bows 
at us with evil but ineffectual intent, was a charming 
picture of African life and manners. Fortunately the 
branches of numerous trees and intervening clumps of 
bamboo frustrated the good intentions of the arrows, as 
they glanced from their aim ; and although some fell 
among our party, we were as yet unscathed. One of the 
enemy, who was most probably a chief, distinguished him- 
self in particular, by advancing to within about fifty yards, 
and standing on a rock, he deliberately shot five or six 
arrows, all of which missed their mark ; the men dodged 
them as they arrived in their uncertain flight : the speed 



Chap. VIII.] NIQET IN A HOSTILE COUNTRT. 275 

of the arrows was so inferior, owing to the stiffness of the 
hows, that nothing was easier than to evade them. Any 
halt was unnecessary. We continued our march throuo-h 
the gorge, the men keeping up an unremitting fire until 
we entered upon a tract of high grass and forest ; this 
heing perfectly dry, it would have been easy to set it on 
fire, as the enemy were to leeward; but although the 
rustling in the grass betokened the presence of a great 
number of men, they were invisible. In a few minutes 
we emerged in a clearing, where corn had been planted ; 
this was a favourable position for a decisive attack upon 
the natives, who now closed up. Throwing out skirmishers, 
with orders that they were to cover themselves behind the 
trunks of trees, the Baris were driven back. One was now 
shot through the body, and fell ; but recovering, he ran 
with his comrades, and fell dead after a few yards. ' 

What casualties had happened during the passage of the 
gorge I cannot say, but the enemy were now utterly dis- 
comfited. I had not fired a shot, as the whole affair was 
perfect child's play, and any one who could shoot would 
have settled the fortune of the day by half a dozen shots ; 
but both the traders' people and my men were " shooters, 
but not hitters." We now bivouacked on the field for 
the night. 

During the march on the following day, the natives 
watched us at a distance, following in great numbers 

T 2 



276 CAMP SURROUNDED BY NATIVES. [Chap. VIII. 

parallel with our route, but fearing to attack. The country- 
was perfectly open, being a succession of fine downs of low 
grass, with few trees, where any attack against our guns 
would have been madness. 

In the evening we arrived at two small deserted 
villages ; these, Kke most in the Bari country, were 
circular, and surrounded by a live and impenetrable fence 
of euphorbia, having only one entrance. The traders' 
people camped in one, while I took up my quarters in the 
other. The sun had sunk, and the night being pitch dark, 
we had a glorious fire, around which we placed our 
angareps opposite the narrow entrance of the camp, about 
ten yards distant. I stationed Kicharn as sentry outside 
the gateway, as he was the most dependable of my men, 
and I thought, it extremely probable that we might be 
attacked during the night : three other sentries I placed on 
guard at various stations. Dinner being concluded, Mrs. 
Baker lay down on her angarep for the night. I drew the 
balls from a double No. 10 smooth bore, and loaded with 
cartridge containing each twenty large-mould shot (about 
a hundred to the pound) ; putting this under my pillow I 
went to sleep. Hardly had I begun to rest, when my men 
woke me, saying that the camp was surrounded by natives. 
Upon inquiry I found this to be correct ; it was so dark 
that they could not be seen without stoopiag to the 
ground and looking along the surface. I ordered the 



Chap. VIII.] POISONED ARROWS SHOT INTO CAMP. 277 

sentries not to fire unless hostilities should commence on 
the side of the natives, and in no case to draw trigger 
without a challenge. 

Eeturning to the angarep I lay down, and not wishing 
to sleep, I smoked my long Unyoro pipe. In about ten 
minutes — bang ! went a shot, quickly followed by another 
from the sentry at the entrance of the camp. Quietly 
rising from my bed, I found Eicham reloading at his 
post. " What is it, Eicham ? " I asked. " They are 
shooting arrows into the camp, aiming at the fire, in 
hopes of hitting you who are sleeping there," said Eicharn. 
" I watched one fellow," he continued, " as I heard the 
twang of his bow four times. At each shot I heard an 
arrow strike the ground between me and you, therefore 
I fired at him, and I think he is down. Do you see that 
black object lying on the ground?" I saw something 
a little blacker than the surrounding darkness, but it 
could not be distinguished. Leaving Eicham with orders 
not to move from his post, but to keep a good look-out 
until relieved by the next watch, I again went to sleep. 

Before break of day, just as the grey dawn slightly 
improved the darkness, I visited the sentry; he was at 
his post, and reported that he thought the archer of 
the preceding night was dead, as he had heard a sound 
proceeding from the dark object on the ground after I 
had left. In a few minutes it was sufficiently light to 



278 SIGHT BBLIQNAN. [Chap. VIII. 

distinguish the hody of a man lying about thirty paces 
from the camp entrance. Upon examination, he proved 
to be a Bari : — his bow was in his hand, and two or three 
arrows were lying by his side ; — thirteen mould shot 
had struck him dead ; one had cut through the bow. 
We now searched the camp for arrows, and as it became 
light we picked up four in various places, some within 
a few feet of our beds, and aU horribly barbed and 
poisoned, that the deceased had shot into the camp 
gateway. 

This was the last attack during our journey. We 
marched well, . generally accomplishing fifteen miles of 
latitude daily from this poiut, as the road was good and 
well known to our guides. The country was generally 
poor, but beautifully diversified with large trees, the 
tamarind predominating. Passing through the small but 
thickly-populated and friendly little province of Moir, 
in a few days we sighted the well-known mountaia 
Belignau, that we had formerly passed on its eastern 
side when we had started on our uncertain path from 
Gondokoro upwards of two years ago. The mountain of 
Belignan was now N.E. from our point of observation. 
We had a splendid view of the Ellyria Mountain, and 
of the distant cone, Gebel el Assul (Honey Moimtaiu) 
between EUyria and Obbo. AU these curiously-shaped 
crags and peaks were well known to us, and we welcomed 



Chap. VIII.] APPROACH OONLOKORO. 279 

them as old friends after a long absence ; they had been 
our companions in times of doubt and anxiety, when 
success in our undertaking appeared hopeless. At noon on 
the following day, as we were as usual marching parallel 
with the Nile, the river, having made a slight bend to 
the west, swept round, and approached within half a mile 
of our path ; — the small conical mountain, Eegiaf, within 
twelve miles of Gondokoro, was on our left, risiag from 
the west bank of the river. We felt almost at home again, 
and marching until sunset, we bivouacked within three 
miles of Gondokoro. That night we were fuU of specula^ 
tions. Would a boat be waiting for us with supplies and 
letters ? The morning anxiously looked forward to at 
length arrived. We started ; — ^the English flag had been 
mounted on a fine straight bamboo with a new lance- 
head specially arranged for the arrival at Gondokoro. My 
men felt proud, as they would march in as conquerors ; 
— according to White Nile ideas such a journey could not 
have been accomplished with so small a party. Long 
before Ibrahim's men were ready to start, our oxen were 
saddled and we were off, longing to hasten into Gondo- 
koro and to find a comfortable vessel with a few luxuries 
and the post from England. Never had the oxen travelled 
so fast as on that morning; — the flag led the way, and 
the men in excellent spirits followed at double quick 
pace. " I see the masts of the vessels ! " exclaimed the 



280 ARRIVE AT QONDOKORO. [Chap. VIII. 

boy Saat. " El hambd el lUah ! " (Thank God !) shouted the 
men. " Hurrah ! " said I — " Three cheers for Old England 
and the Sources of the Nile ! Hurrah ! " and my men 
joined me iu the wild, and to their ears savage, English 
yell. " Now for a salute ! Eire away all yotir powder, 
if you like, my lads, and let the people know that we're 
alive ! " This was aU that was required to complete the 
happiness of my people, and loading and firing as fast 
as possible, we approached near to Gondokoro. Presently 
we saw the Turkish flag emerge from Gondokoro at about 
a quarter of a mile distant, followed by a number of the 
traders' people, who waited to receive us. On our arrival, 
they immediately approached and fired salutes with ball 
cartridge, as usual advancing close to us and dischargiag 
their guns into the ground at our feet. One of my 
servants, Mahomet, was riding an ox, and an old friend 
of his in the crowd happening to recognise him, imme- 
diately advanced, and saluted him by firing his gun into 
the earth directly beneath the belly of the ox he was 
riding; — ^the effect produced made the crowd and our- 
selves explode with laughter. The nervous ox, terrified 
at the sudden discharge between his legs, gave a tre- 
mendous kick, and continued madly kicking and plung- 
ing, unto. Mahomet was pitched over his head and lay 
sprawling on the ground ; — this scene terminated the 
expedition. 



Chap. VIII.] NJEITHER LETTERS NOR SUPPLIES. 281 

Dismoimting from our tired oxen, our first inquiry- 
was concerning boats and letters. What was the reply ? 
Neither boats, letters, supplies, nor any intelligence of 
friends or the civilized world ! We had long since been 
given up as dead by the inhabitants of Khartoum, and 
by all those who understood the difficulties and dangers 
of the country. We were told that some people had 
suggested that we might possibly have gone to Zanzibar, 
but the general opinion was that we had all been killed. 
At this cold and barren reply, I felt almost choked. We 
had looked forward to arriving at Gondokoro as to a home ; 
we had expected that a boat would have been sent on the 
chance of finding us, as I had left money in the hands 
of an agent in Khartoum — but there was literally nothing 
to receive us, and we were helpless to return. We had 
worked for years in misery, such as I have but faintly 
described, to overcome the difficulties of this hitherto 
unconquerable exploration ; we had succeeded — and what 
was the result ? Not even a letter from home to welcome 
us if ahve ! As I sat beneath a tree and looked down 
upon the glorious Nile that flowed a few yards beneath 
my feet, I pondered upon the value of my toil. I had 
traced the river to its great Albert source, and as the 
mighty stream glided before me, the mystery that had 
ever shrouded its origin was dissolved. I no longer 
looked upon its waters with a feeling approaching to awe. 



282 DISAPPOINTMENT. [Chap. VIII. 

for I knew its home, and had. visited its cradle. Had 
I overrated the importance of the discovery ? and had I 
wasted some of the best years of my life to obtain a 
shadow ? I recalled to recollection the practical question 
of Commoro, the chief of Latooka, — "Suppose you get 
to the great lake, what will you do with it ? What wiU 
be the good of it ? If you find that the large river does 
flow from it, what then 1 " 



CHAPTEE IX. 

THU LATEST NEWS FROM KHARTOUM. 

rrHE various trading parties were assembled in Gondo- 
koro -with a total of about three thousand slaves; 
but there was consternation depicted upon every 
countenance. Only three boats had arrived from Khar- 
toum — one diahbiah and two noggurs — these belonged to 
Koorshid Aga. The resumd of news from Khartoum was 
as follows : — 

" Orders had been received by the Egyptian authorities 
from the European Governments to suppress the slave- 
trade. Pour steamers had arrived at Khartoum from 
Cairo. Two of these vessels had ascended the White Nile, 
and had captured many slavers ; their crews were im- 
prisoned, and had been subjected to the bastiaado and 
torture ; — the captured slaves had been appropriated by 
the Egyptian authorities. 

" It would be impossible to deliver slaves to the Soudan 
this season, as an Egyptian regiment had been stationed in 



284 INTELLIGENCE FROM KHARTOUM. [Chap. IX. 

the Shillook country, and steamers were cruising to inter- 
cept the boats from the interior in their descent to Khar- 
toum ; — thus the army of slaves then at Gondokoro would 
be utterly worthless. 

" The plague was raging at Khartoum, and had Idlled 
15,000 people; — many of the boats' crews had died on 
their passage from Khartoum to Gondokoro of this disease, 
which had even broken out in the station where we then 
were : people died daily. 

" The White Nile was dammed up by a freak of nature, 
and the crews of thirty vessels had been occupied five 
weeks in cutting a ditch through the obstruction, wide 
enough to admit the passage of boats." 

Such was the intelligence received by the latest arrival 
from Khartoum. N"o boats having been sent for me, I 
engaged the diahbiah that had arrived for Koorshid's 
ivory; — this would return empty, as no ivory could be 
delivered at Gondokoro. The prospect was pleasant, as 
many men had died of the plague on board our vessel 
during the voyage from Khartoum ; thus we should be 
subject to a visitation of this fearful complaint as a wind- 
up to the difficulties we had passed through during our 
long exile in Central Africa. I ordered the vessel to be 
thoroughly scrubbed with boiling -water and sand, after 
which it was fumigated with several pounds of tobacco, 
burnt within the cabin. 



OuAP. IX.] RETREAT OF THE SLAVES. 285 

Three days were employed in ferrying the slaves across 
the river in the two noggurs, or barges, as they must be 
returned to their respective stations. I rejoiced at the 
total discomiiture of the traders, and, observing a cloud of 
smoke far distant to the north, I spread the alarm that a 
steamer was approaching from Khartoum ! Such was the 
consternation of the traders' parties at the bare idea of 
such an occurrence that they prepared for immediate flight 
into the interior, as they expected to be captured by 
Government troops sent from Khartoum to suppress the 
slave-trade. Profiting by this nervous state of affairs, I 
induced them to allow the boat to start immediately, and 
we concluded all our arrangements, contracting for the 
diahbiah at 4,000 piastres (£40). The plague having 
broken out at Gondokoro, the victims among the natives 
were dragged to the edge of the cliff and thrown into the 
river ; — it is impossible to describe the horrible effluvium 
produced by the crowds of slaves that had been confined 
upon the limited area of the station. At length the happy 
moment arrived that we were to quit the miserable 
spot. The boat was ready to start — we were aU on board, 
and Ibrahim and his people came to say good-bye. It is 
only justice to Ibrahim to say, that, although he had been 
my great enemy when at Gondokoro in 1863, he had 
always behaved weU since peace was established at Ellyria ; 
and, although by nature and profession a slave-hunter, like 



286 INFLUENGH OVER TRABBBS' FWPLE. [Chap. IX. 

others of the White Nile, he had frequently yielded to my 
interference to save the lives of natives who would other- 
wise have been massacred without pity. 

I had gained an extraordinary influence over all these 
rufiSanly people. Everything that I had promised them 
had been more than performed ; all that I had foretold had 
been curiously realized. They now acknowledged how 
often I had assured them that the slave-trade would be 
suppressed by the interference of European powers, and 
the present ruin of their trade was the result; they aU 
believed that I was the cause, by having written from 
Gondokoro to the Consul-general of Egypt in 1863, when 
the traders had threatened to drive me back. Ear from 
retaliating upon me, they were completely cowed. The 
report had been spread throughout Gondokoro by Ibrahim 
and his people that their wonderful success in ivory hunt- 
ing was chiefly due to me ; that their sick had been cured; 
that good luck had attended their party ; that disaster had 
befallen all who had been against me ; and that no one 
had suffered wrong at our hands. With the resignation of 
Mahommedans they yielded to their destiny, apparently 
without any ni-feeling against us. Crowds lined the cliff 
and the high ground by the old ruins of the mission-station 
to see us depart. We pushed off from shore into the 
powerful current ; the English flag that had accompanied 
us all through our wanderings now fluttered proudly from 



Chap. IX.] SJIL FROM GONDOKORO. 287 

the mast-head unsullied by defeat, and amidst the rattle of 
musketry we glided rapidly down the river, and soon lost 
sight of Gondokoro. 

What were our feelings at that moment ? Overflowino- 
with gratitude to a Divine Providence that had supported 
us in sickness, and guided us through all dangers. There 
had been moments of hopelessness and despair ; days of 
misery, when the future had appeared dark and fatal ; but 
we had been strengthened in our weakness, and led, when 
apparently lost, by an unseen hand. I felt no trinmph, 
but with a feeling of calm contentment and satisfaction we 
floated down the Nile. My great joy was in the meeting 
that I contemplated with Speke in England, as I had so 
thoroughly completed the task we had agreed upon. 

Silently and easily we floated down the river ; the oars 
keeping us in mid-stream. The endless marshes no longer 
looked so mournful as we glided rapidly past, and de- 
scended the current against which we had so arduously 
laboured on our ascent to Gondokoro. As we thus pro- 
ceeded on our voyage through the monotonous marshes 
and vast herds of hippopotami that at this season thronged 
the river, I had ample leisure to write my letters for 
England, to be posted on arrival at Khartoum, and to look 
back upon the results of the last few years. 

The Nile, cleared of its mystery, resolves itself into 
comparative simplicity. The actual basin of the Nile is 



288 rnH NILE CLEARED OF MYSTEBT. [Chap. IX. 

included between about the 22° and 39° East longitude, 
and from 3° South to 18° North latitude. The drainage of 
that vast area is monopolized by the Egyptian river. The 
Victoria and Albert lakes, the two great equatorial reser- 
voirs, are the recipients of all affluents south of the 
Equator; the Albert lake being the grand reservoir in 
which are concentrated the entire waters from the south, 
in addition to tributaries from the Blue Mountains from 
the north of the Equator. The Albert N'yanza is the 
great basin of the Nile : the distinction between that and 
the Victoria N'yanza is, that the Victoria is a reservoir 
receiving the eastern affluents, and it becomes a starting 
point or the most elevated source at the point where the 
river issues from it at the Eipon EaUs : the Albert is a reser- 
voir not only receiving the western and southern affluents 
direct from the Blue Mountains, but it also receives the 
supply from the Victoria and from the entire equatorial 
Nile basin. The Nile as it issues from the Albert N'yanza 
is the entire Nile ; prior to its birth from the Albert lake it 
is not the entire Nile. A glance at the map will at once 
exemplify the relative value of the two great lakes. The 
Victoria gathers all the waters on the eastern side and 
sheds them inta the northern extremity of the Albert : 
while the latter, from its character and position, is the 
direct channel of the Nile that receives all waters that 
belong to the equatorial Nile basin. Thus the Victoria is 



Chap. IX.] THE riCTOMA SOURCE. 289 

the first source; but from the Albert the river issues at 
once as the great White Nile. 

It is not my intention to claim a higher value for my 
discovery than is justly due, neither would I diminish in 
any way the lustre of the achievements of Speke and 
Grant ; it has ever been my object to confirm and support 
their discoveries, and to add my voice to the chorus of 
praise that they have so justly merited. A great geo- 
graphical fact has through our joint labours been most 
thoroughly established by the discovery of the sources of 
the Nile. I lay down upon the map exactly what I saw, 
and what I gathered from information afforded by the 
natives most carefully examined. 

My exploration confirms all that was asserted by Speke 
and Grant : they traced the country from Zanzibar to the 
northern watershed of Africa, commencing at about 3° 
South latitude, at the southern extremity of the Victoria 
N'yanza. They subsequently determined the river at the 
Eipon Falls flowing from that lake to be the highest source 
of the Nile. They had a perfect right to arrive at this 
conclusion from the data then afforded. They traced the 
river for a considerable distance to Karuma Falls, in lat. 
2° 15' K ; and they subsequently met the NUe in lat. 
3° 32' N. They had heard that it flowed into the Luta 
Wzig6, and that it issued from it ; thus they were correct 
in aU their investigations, which my discoveries have con- 

VOL. u. u 



290 PTOLBMT'S THEOBT. [Chap. IX. 

firmed. Their general description of the country was per- 
fect, but not having visited the lake heard of as the 
Luta N'zigd, they could not possibly have been aware of 
the vast importance of that great reservoir in the Nile 
system. The task of exploring that extraordinary feature 
having been accomplished, the geographical question of the 
sources of the Nile is explaiaed. Ptolemy had described 
the Nile sources as emanating from two great lakes that 
received the snows of the mountains of Ethiopia. There 
are many ancient maps existing upon which these lakes 
are marked as positive : although there is a wide error in 
the latitude, the fact remains, that two great lakes were 
reported to exist in Equatorial Africa fed by the torrents 
from lofty mountains, and that from these reservoirs two 
streams issued, the conjunction of which formed the Nile. 
The general principle was correct, although the detail was 
wrong. There can be little doubt that trade had been 
carried on between the Arabs from the Eed Sea and 
the coast opposite Zanzibar in ancient times, and that 
the people engaged in such enterprise had penetrated so 
far into the interior as to have obtained a knowledge 
of the existence of the two reservoirs ; thus may the 
geographical information originally have been brought 
into Egypt. 

The rainfall to within 3° north of the Equator extends 
over ten months, commencing in February and terminating 



Chap. IX.] AFFLUENTS OF THE WHITE NILE. 291 

in the end of November. The heaviest rains fall from April 
tOI the end of August ; during the latter two months of 
this season the rivers are at their maximum: at other 
times the climate is about as imcertain as that of England ; 
but the rain is of the heavy character usual in the tropics. 
Thus the rivers are constant throughout the year, and the 
Albert lake continues at a high level, affording a steady 
volume of water to the Nile. On the map given to me by 
Captain Speke he has marked the Victoria JSTile below the 
Eipon Falls as the Somerset river. As I have made a point 
of adhering to all native names as given by him upon that 
map, I also adhere to the name Somerset river for that 
portion of the Mle between the Victoria and the Albert 
Lakes ; this must be understood as Speke's Victoria Nile 
source; bearing the name of Somerset, no confusion wUl 
arise in speaking of the Nile, which would otherwise be 
ambiguous, as the same name would apply to two distinct 
rivers — the one emanating from the Victoria and flowing 
into the Albert ; the other the entire river Nile as it leaves 
the Albert lake. The White Nile, fed as described by the 
great reservoirs supplied by the rains of equatorial dis- 
tricts, receives the following tributaries : — 

From the East bank — The Asua, important from 15th 
April tiU 15th November : dry after that date. 

From West bank — The Ye, third class ; full from 15th 
April tUl 15th November. 

U2 



292 AGTION OF THB ABTSSINIAN BIVBBS. [Chap. IX. 

From "West bank — Another small river, third class ; full 
from 15th April till 15th November. 

Ditto — The Bahr el Gazal; little or no water supplied 
by this river. 

From East bank — The Sobat, first class ; full from June 
to December. 

The Bahr Giraffe I omit, as it is admitted by the natives 
to be a branch of the White Nile that leaves the main 
river at the Aliab country and re-unites in lat. 9° 25' be- 
tween the Bahr el Gazal and the Sobat. The latter river 
(Sobat) is the most powerful affluent of the White Nile, 
and is probably fed by many tributaries from the Galla 
country about Kaffa, in addition to receiving the rivers 
from the Bari and Latooka countries. I consider that the 
Sobat must be supplied by considerable streams from 
totally distinct countries east and south, having a rainfall 
at different seasons, as it is bank-full at the end of Decem- 
ber, when the southern rivers (the Asua, &c.) are extremely 
low. North from the Sobat, the White Nile has no other 
tributaries until it is joined by the Blue Nile at Khartoum, 
and by its last affluent the Atbara in lat. 17° 37'. These 
two great mountain streams flooding suddenly in the end 
of June, fed by the rains of Abyssinia, raise the volume 
of the Nile to an extent that causes the inundations of 
Lower Egypt. 

The basin of the Nile being thus understood, let us 



Chap. IX.] COLONIZATION IMPOSSIBLE. 293 

reflect upoii the natural resources of the vast surface of 
fertile soil that is comprised in that portion of Central 
Africa. It is dif&cult to believe that so magniiicent a 
soil and so enormous an extent of country is destined 
to remain for ever in savagedom, and yet it is hard to 
argue on the possibility of improvement in a portion of 
the world inhabited by savages whose happiness consists 
in idleness or warfare. The advantages are few, the 
drawbacks many. The immense distance from the sea- 
coast would render impossible the transport of any mer- 
chandise unless of extreme value, as the expenses would 
be insupportable. The natural productions are nil, ex- 
cepting ivory. The soil being fertile and the climate 
favourable to cultivation, aU tropical produce would 
thrive ; — cotton, coffee, and the sugar-cane are indigenous ; 
but although both climate and soil are favourable, the 
conditions necessary to successful enterprise are wanting ; 
— ^the population is scanty, and the material of the very 
worst ; the people vicious and idle. The climate, although 
favourable for agriculture, is adverse to the European con- 
stitution ; thus colonization would be out of the question. 
What can be done with so hopeless a prospect ? Where 
the climate is fatal to Europeans, from whence shall 
civilization be imported ? The heart of Africa is so com- 
pletely secluded from the world, and the means of com- 
munication are so difficult, that although fertile, its 



294 SLAFERT THE CUB.SE OF AFRICA. [Chap. IX. 

geographical position debars that vast extent of country 
from improvement : thus shut out from civilization it has 
become an area for unbridled atrocities, as exemplified in 
the acts of the ivory traders. 

Difficult and almost impossible is the task before the 
Missionary. The Austrian Mission has failed, and the 
stations have been forsaken ; — ^their pious labour was hope- 
less, and the devoted priests died upon their barren field. 
What curse lies so heavily upon Africa and bows her 
down beneath all other nations ? It is the infernal traffic 
in slaves, — a trade so hideous, that the heart of every slave 
and owner becomes deformed, and shrinks like a withered 
limb incapable of action. The natural love of offspring, 
shared with the human race by the most savage beast, 
ceases to warm the heart of the wretched slave. Why 
should the mother love her child, if it is bom to become 
the property of her owner ? — to be sold as soon as it can 
exist without the mother's care. Why shordd the girl be 
modest, when she knows that she is the actual property, 
the slave, of every purchaser? Slavery murders the 
sacred feeling of love, that blessing that cheers the lot of 
the poorest man, that spell that binds him to his wife, and 
child, and home. Love cannot exist with slavery — ^the 
mind becomes brutalized to an extent that freezes all those 
tender feelings that Nature has implanted in the human 
heart to separate it from, the beast; and the mind, de- 



Chap. IX.] IMPOTENCE OP EUROPEAN CONSULS. 295 

spoiled of all noble instincts, descends to hopeless brutality. 
Thus is Africa accursed: nor can she be raised to any 
scale approaching to civilization until the slave-trade shall 
be totally suppressed. The first step necessary to the 
improvement of the savage tribes of the White Nile is 
the annihilation of the slave-trade. Until this be effected, 
no legitimate commerce can be established; neither is 
there an opening for missionary enterprise ; — the country 
is sealed and closed against all improvement. 

liTothing would be easier than to suppress this infamous 
traffic, yfexe the European Powers in earnest. Egypt is 
in favour of slavery. I have never seen a Government 
official who did not in argument uphold slavery as an 
institution absolutely necessary to Egypt, — thus any 
demonstration made against the slave-trade by the Govern- 
ment of that country will be simply a pro forma move- 
ment to blind the European Powers. Their eyes thus 
closed, and the question shelved, the trade will resume 
its channel. Were the reports of European consiils sup- 
ported by their respective Governments, and were the 
consuls themselves empowered to seize vessels laden with 
slaves, and to liberate gangs of slaves when upon a land 
journey, that abominable traffic could not exist. The 
hands of the European consuls are tied, and jealousies 
interwoven vdth the Turkish question act as a bar to 
united action on the part of Europe ;--no Power cares to be 



296 IMPOSSIBLE TO OONVICT A TRADBB. [Chap. IX. 

the first to disturb the muddy pool. The Austrian consul 
at Khartoum, Herr batterer, told me, in 1862, that he 
had vainly reported the atrocities of the slave-trade to 
his Government; — no reply had been eeceived to his 
report. Every European Government knows that the 
slave-trade is carried on to an immense extent in Upper 
Egypt, and that the Eed Sea is the great Slave Lake 
by which these unfortunate creatures are transported to 
Arabia and to Suez, — but the jealousies concerning Egypt 
muzzle each European Power. Should one move, the 
other would iaterfere to counteract undue influence in 
Egypt. Thus is immunity insured to the villanous actors 
in the trade. Who can prosecute a slave trader of the 
"White Nile? What legal evidence can be produced from 
Central Africa to secure a conviction in an English Court 
of Law? The English consul (Mr. Petherick) arrested a 
Maltese, the nephew of Debono ; — the charge could not be 
legally supported. Thus are the consuls fettered, and 
their acts nullified by the impossibility of producing 
reliable evidence; — ^the facts are patent; but who can 
prove them legally ? 

Stop the White Nile trade; prohibit the departure of 
any vessels from Khartoum for the south, and let the 
Egyptian Government grant a concession to a company 
for the AVTiite NUe, subject to certain conditions, and to 
a special supervision. (There are already four steamers at 



Ch. IX.] CENTRAL AFRICA OPENED TO NAVIGATION. 297 

Khartoum.) Establish a military post of 200 men at 
Gondokoro ; an equal number below the SMUook tribe in, 
13° latitude, and, with two steamers cruising on the river, 
not a slave could descend the White N"ile. 

Should the slave-trade be suppressed, there wOl be a 
good opening for the ivory trade ; the conflicting trading 
parties being withdrawn, and the interest of the trade 
exhibited by a single company, the natives would no 
longer be able to barter ivory for cattle ; thus they would 
be forced to accept other goods in exchange. The newly- 
discovered Albert lake opens the centre of Africa to 
navigation. Steamers ascend from Khartoum to Gondo- 
koro in latitude 4° 55'. Seven days' march south from 
that station the navigable portion of the Nile is reached, 
where vessels can ascend direct to the Albert lake, — 
thus an enormous extent of country is opened to navi- 
gation, and Manchester goods and various other articles 
would find a ready market in exchange for ivory, at a 
prodigious profit, as in those newly-discovered regions 
ivory has a merely nominal value. Beyond this com- 
mencement of honest trade, I cannot offer a suggestion, 
as no produce of the country except ivory could afford 
the expense of transport to Europe. If Africa is to be 
civilized, it must be effected by commerce, which, once 
established, wiU open the way for missionary labour ; but 
aU ideas of commerce, improvement, and the advance- 



298 TRIBES OF CENTRAL AFRICA. [Chap. IX. 

ment of the African race that philanthropy could suggest 
must be discarded until the traffic in slaves shall have 
ceased to exist. 

Should the slave-trade be suppressed, a field would be 
opened, the extent of which I wOl not attempt to suggest, 
as the future would depend upon the good government of 
countries now devoted to savage anarchy and confusion. 

Any Government that would insure security would be 
the greatest blessiug, as the perpetual hostUities among 
the various tribes prevent an extension of cultivation. 
The sower knows not who will reap, thus he limits his 
crop to his bare necessities. 

The ethnology of Central Africa is completely beyond 
my depth. The natives not only are ignorant of writing, 
but they are without traditions — ^their thoughts are as 
entirely engrossed by their daily wants as those of 
animals ; thus there is no clue to the distant past ; 
history has no existence. This is much to be deplored, 
as peculiarities are specific in the type of several tribes 
both in physical appearance and in language. The 
Dinka; Bari; Latooka; Madi; and Unyoro or Kitwara, 
are distinct languages on the east of the Nile, comprising 
an extent of country from about 12° north to the Equator. 
The Makkarika have also a distinct language, and I was , . 
informed in Kamrasi's country, that the Malegga, on the 
west of the Albert lake, speak a different tongue to that 



Chap. IX.] VESTIGES OF A PBE-ADAMITE CREATION? 299 

of Kitwara (or Unyoro)— this may possibly he. the same 
as the Makkarika, of which I have had no experience by 
comparison. Accepting the fact of five distinct languages 
from the Equator to 12° E". lat.j it would appear by 
analogy that Central Africa is divided into numerous 
countries and tribes, distinct from each other in lan- 
guage and physical conformation, whose origin is perfectly 
obscure. "Whether the man of Central Africa be pre- 
Adamite is impossible to determine; but the idea is 
suggested by the following data. The historical origin of 
man, or Adam, commences with a knowledge of God. 
Throughout the history of the world from the creation of 
Adam, God is connected with mankind in every creed, 
whether worshipped as the universal sublime Spirit of 
omnipotence, or shaped by the forms of idolatry into repre- 
sentations of a deity. From the creation of Adam, man- 
kind has acknowledged its inferiority, and must bow down 
and worship either the true God or a graven image; or 
something that is in heaven or in earth. The world, as 
we accept that term, was always actuated by a natural 
rehgious instinct. Cut off from that world, lost in the 
mysterious distance that shrouded the origin of the 
Egyptian Nile, were races unknown, that had never 
reckoned in the great sum of history — races that we have 
brought to light, whose existence had been hidden from 
mankind, and that now appear before us like the fossil 



300 OBOLOOIGAL FORMATION. [Chap. IX. 

bones of antediluvian animals. Are they vestiges of what 
existed in a pre- Adamite creation ? 

The geological formation of Central Africa is primitive ; 
showing an altitude above the sea-level averaging nearly 
4,000 feet. This elevated portion of the globe, built up in 
great part of granitic sandstone rooks, has never been 
submerged, nor does it appear to have undergone any 
changes, either volcanic or by the action of water. Time, 
working through countless ages with the slow but certain 
instrument of atmospheric influence, has rounded the sur- 
face and split into fragments the granite rocks, leaving a 
sandy base of disintegrated portions, while in other cases 
the mountains show as hard and undecayed a surface as 
though fresh from Nature's foundry. Central Africa never 
having been submerged, the animals and races must 
be as old, and may be older, than any upon the earth. 
No geological change having occurred in ages long anterior 
to man, as shown by Sir E. I. Murchison theoretically so 
far back as the year 1852, when Central Africa was utterly 
unknown, it is natural to suppose that the races that exist 
upon that surface should be unaltered from their origia. 
That origin may date from a period so distant, that it pre- 
ceded the Adamite creation. Historic man believes in a 
Divinity ; the tribes of Central Africa know no God. Aj& 
they of our Adamite race? The equatorial portion of 
Africa at the Nile sources has an average altitude above 



Chap. IX.] HYFOTHMSIS OF FQUATOEIJL LAKES. 301 

the sea-level of about 4,000 feet; this elevated plateau 
forms the base of a range of mountains, that I imagine 
extends, Kke the vertebrae of an animal, from east to west, 
sheddiag a drainage to the north and south. Should this 
hypothesis be correct, the southern watershed would fill 
the Tanganika lake : while farther to the west another lake, 
supplied by the southern drainage, may form the head of 
the river Congo. On the north a similar system may drain 
into the Niger and Lake Tchad : thus the Victoria and the 
Albert lakes, being the two great reservoirs or sources of 
the Nile, may be the first of a system of African equatorial 
lakes fed by the northern and southern drainage of the 
mountain range, and supplying all the principal rivers of 
Africa from the great equatorial rainfall. The fact of the 
centre of Africa at the Nile sources being about 4,000 
feet above the ocean, independently of high mountains 
rising from that level, suggests that the drainage of the 
Equator from the central and elevated portion must find 
its way to the lower level and reach the sea. "Wherever 
high mountain ranges exist, there must also be depres- 
sions ; those situated in an equatorial rainfall must receive 
the drainage from the high lands and become lakes, the 
overflow of which must form the sources of rivers, pre- 
cisely as exemplified in the sources of the Nile from the 
Victoria and the Albert lakes. 
The fact that Sir Koderick Murchison, as a geologist. 



302 SIR RODmiCKMURCHISOirS THEORIES. [Chap. IX. 

laid down a theory of the existence of a chain of lakes 
upon an elevated plateau in Central Africa, which theory- 
has been now in great measure confirmed by actual inspec- 
tion, induces me to quote an extract from his address at 
the anniversary meeting of the Eoyal Geographical Society, 
23d May, 1864. In that address, he expressed opinions 
upon the geological structure and the races of Central 
Africa, which preceded those that I formed when at the 
Albert lake. It is with intense interest that I have read 
the following extract siace my return to England : — 

" In former addresses, I suggested that the interior mass 
and central portions of Africa constituting a great plateau 
occupied by lakes and marshes, from which the waters 
escaped by cracks or depressions in the subtending older 
rocks, had been in that condition during an enormously 
long period. I have recently been enabled, through the 
apposite discovery of Dr. Kirk, the companion of Living- 
stone, not only to fortify my conjecture of 1852, but greatly 
to extend the iaferences concerning the long period of time 
duriiig which the central parts of Africa have remained in 
their present condition, save their degradation by ordinary 
atmospheric agencies. My view, as given to this Society 
in 1852, was mainly founded on the original and admirable 
geological researches of Mr. Bain in the colony of the 
Cape of Good Hope. It was, that, inasmuch as in the 
secondary or mesozoic age of geologists, the northern in- 



Chap. IX.], SIR RODERICK MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. 303 

tenor of that country was occupied by great lakes and 
marshes, as proved by the fossil reptile discovered by 
Bain, and named Dicynodon by Owen, such it has re- 
mained for countless ages, even up to the present day. 
The succeeding journeys into the interior, of Livingstone, 
Thornton and Kirk, Burton and Speke, and Speke and 
Grant, have all tended to strengthen me in the belief that 
Southern Africa has not undergone any of those great sub- 
marine depressions which have so largely affected Europe, 
Asia, and America, during the secondary, tertiary, and 
quad modern periods. 

" The discovery of Dr. Kirk has confirmed my conclusion. 
On the banks of an affluent of the Zambesi, that gentleman 
collected certain bones, apparently carried down in watery 
drifts from inland positions, which remains have been so 
fossilized as to have aU the appearance of antiquity which 
fcssils of a tertiary or older age usually present. One of 
these is a portion of the vertebral column and sacrum of a 
buffalo, undistinguishable from that of the Cape buffalo ; 
another is a fragment of a crocodile, and another of a water- 
tortoise, both undistinguishable from the forms of those 
animals now living. Together with these, Dr. Kirk found 
numerous bones of antelopes and other animals, which, 
though in a fossil condition, all belonged, as he assured 
me, to species now living in South Africa. 

" On the other hand, none of our explorers, including 



304 SIR RODERICK MUBCHISOirS ADDRESS. [Chap. IX. 

Mr. Bain, who has diligently worked as a geologist, have 
detected ia the interior any limestones containing marine 
fossil remains, which would have proved that South 
Africa had, like other regions, been depressed into oceanic 
conditions, and re-elevated. On the contrary, ia addition 
to old granitic and other igneous rocks, all explorers 
find only either innumerable undulations of sandstones,- 
schistose, and quartzose rocks, or such tufaceous and 
ferruginous deposits as would naturally occur in countries 
long occupied by lakes and exuberant jimgles, separated 
from each other by sandy hiUs, scarcely any other cal- 
careous rocks being found except tufas formed by the 
deposition of landsprings. It is true that there are marine 
tertiary formations on the coasts (around the Cape Colony, 
near the mouth of the Zambesi opposite Mozambique, 
and again on the coasts of Mombas opposite Zanzibar), 
and that these have been raised up into low-coast ranges, 
followed by rocks of igneous origin. But in penetrating 
into the true interior, the traveller takes a final leave of 
all such formations; and in advancing to the heart of 
the continent, he traverses a vast region which, to all 
appearance, has ever been under terrestrial and lacustrine 
conditions only. Judging, indeed, from all the evidences 
as yet collected, the interior of South Africa has remained 
in that condition since the period of the secondary rocks 
of geologists ! Yet, whilst none of our countrymen found 



Chap. IX.] SIB SODFRICK MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. 305 

any evidences of old marine remains, Captain Speke 'brought 
from one of tlie ridges which lay between the coast and 
the lake Victoria N'yanza a fossil shell, which, though 
larger in size, is undistinguishable from the Achatina 
perdix now flourishing in South Africa. Again, whilst 
Bain found fossil plants in his reptiliferous strata north 
of the Cape, and Liviagstone and Thornton discovered 
coal in sandstone, with fossil plants, like those of our old 
coal of Europe and America, — ^yet both these mesozoic and 
palaeozoic remains are terrestrial, and are not associated 
with marine limestones, indicative of those oscillations of 
the land which are so common in other countries. 

" It is further to be observed, that the surface of this 
yast interior is entirely exempt from the coarse superficial 
drift that encumbers so many countries, as derived from 
lofty mountain-chains from which either glaciers or great 
torrential streams have descended. In this respect, it is 
also equally unlike those plains of Germany, Poland, and 
Northern Eussia, which were sea-bottoms when floating 
icebergs melted and dropped the loads of stone which 
they were transporting from Scandinavia and Lapland. 

"In truth, therefore, the inner portion of Southern 
Africa is, in this respect, as far as I know, geologically 
unique in the long conservation of ancient terrestrial 
conditions. This inference is further supported by the 
concomitant absence, throughout the larger portion of aU 

VOL. II. X 



306 SIS RODIBICK MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [Chap. IX. 

this vast area, i.e. south of the Equator, of any of those 
volcanic rocks which are so often associated with oscilla- 
tions of the terra firma.* 

" With the exception of the true volcanic lulls of the 
Cameroons recently described by Burton, on the west coast, 
a little to the north of the Equator, and which possibly 
may advance southwards towards the Gaboon country, 
nothing is known of the presence of any similar foci of 
sub-aerial eruption all round the coasts of Africa south 
of the Equator. If the elements for the production of 
them had existed, the coast-hne is precisely that on 
which we should expect to find such volcanic vents, if 
we judge by the analogy of all volcanic regions where 
the habitual igneous eruptions are not distant from 
the sea, or from great internal masses of water. The 
absence, then, both on the coasts and in the interior, 
of any eruptive rocks which can have been thrown 
up under the atmosphere siace the period when the 
tertiary rocks began to be accumulated, is ia concurrence 
with all the physical data as yet got together. These 
demonstrate that, although the geologist finds here none 
of those characters of lithologieal structure and curiously 
diversified organic remains which enable him to fix the 

* " Although JKilimandjaro is to a great extent igneous and volcanic, 
there is nothing to prove that it has been in activity during the historic 



Chap. IX.] SIB BOLERICK MURGHISON'S ADDRESS. 30/ 

epochs of succession in the crust of the earth in other 
quarters of the globe, the interior of South Africa is 
unquestionably a grand type of a region which has pre- 
served its ancient terrestrial conditions during a very 
long period, unaffected by any changes except those 
which are dependent , on atmospheric and meteoric 
iafluences. 

"If, then, the lower animals and plants of this vast 
country have gone on unchanged for a very long period, 
may we infer that its human inhabitants are of like 
antiquity ? If so, the Negro may claim as old a lineage 
as the Caucasian or Mongolian races. In the absence 
of any decisive fact, I forbear, at present, to speculate 
on this point ; but as, amid the fossil specimens procured 
by Livingstone and Kirk, there are fragments of pottery 
made by human hands, we must wait until some zealous 
explorer of Southern Africa shall distinctly bring forward 
proofs that the manufactured articles are of the same age 
as the fossil bones. In other words, we still require from 
Africa the same proofs of the existence of links which 
bind together the sciences of Geology and Archaeology 
which have recently been developed in Europe. Now, 
if the unquestioned works of man should be found to be 
coeval with the remains of fossilized existing animals in 
Southern Africa, the travelled geographer, who has con- 
vinced himseK of the ancient condition of its surface, 

x2 



308 SIB RODERICK MURCHISON'S ADDRESS. [Chap. IX. 

must admit, however unwillingly, that although the black 
man is of such very remote antiquity, he has been very 
stationary in civilization and in attaiaing the arts of life, 
if he be compared with the Caucasian, thfe Mongolian, 
the Eed Indian of America, or even with the aborigines 
of Polynesia." * 

* " The most remarkable proof of the inferiority of the Negro, when 
compared with the Asiatic, is, that whilst the latter has domesticated the 
elephant for ages, and rendered it highly useful to man, the Negro has 
only slaughtered the animal to obtain food or ivoiy." 



CHAPTER X. 

th:e black antelope. 

"nTE continued our voyage down the Nile, at times 
scudding along with a fair wind and stream, when 
a straight portion of the river allowed our men respite 
from the oars. This was the termination of the dry 
season, m this latitude T (end of March); — thus, although 
the river was nearly level with the banks, the marshes 
were tolerably firm, and in the dryer portions the reeds 
had teen burnt off by the natives. In one of these cleared 
places we descried a vast herd of antelopes, numbering 
several thousands. The males were black, and carried 
fine horns, while the females were reddish-brown and 
without horns. Never having shot this species, I landed 
from the boat, which I ordered to wait in a sheltered 
nook, while, accompanied by the boy Saat and Eicham, 
I took the little Hetcher 24 rifle and commenced 
a stalk. 

The antelopes did not evince their usual shyness, and 
with a tolerable amount of patience I succeeded in getting 



310 ANTELOPE SHOOTING. [Chap. X. 

within about 120 paces of two splendid black bucks that 
were separated from the herd ; — a patch of half-burnt reeds 
afforded a good coveriag point. The left-hand buck was in 
a good position for a shoulder shot, standing with his flank 
exposed, but with his head turned towards me. At the 
crack of the rifle he sprang upon his hind legs, — gave two 
or three convulsive bounds, and fell. His companion went 
off at full speed, and the left-hand barrel unfortunately- 
broke his hind leg, as the half-burnt reeds hindered a 
correct aim. Eeloading, while my men bled the dead 
buck, I fired a long shot at the dense mass of antelopes 
who were now in full retreat at about 600 yards' distance 
crowded together in thousands. I heard, or fancied I 
heard, the ball strike some object, and as the herd passed 
on, a reddish object remained behind that we could hardly 
distinguish, but on nearer approach I found a doe lying 
dead — she had been by chance struck by the ball through 
the neck at this great distance. The game being at full 
speed in retreat, my sport would have been over had we 
not at that moment heard shouts and yells exactly ahead 
of the vast herd of antelopes. At once they halted, and 
we perceived a number of natives, armed with spears and 
bows, who had intercepted the herd in their retreat, and 
who now turned them by their shouts exactly towards 
us. The herd came on at full speed ; but seeing us, they 
slightly altered their line, and rushed along, thundering/ 



Chap. X.] ANTBLOPE SHOOTING. 311 

over the ground almost in single file, thus occupying a 
continuous line of about half a mile in length. Running 
towards them at right angles for about a quarter of a 
mile, I at length arrived at a white ant-hill about ten 
feet high; behind this I took my stand within about 
seventy yards of the string of antelopes that were filing 
by at full gallop. I waited for a buck with fine horns. 
Several passed, but T observed better heads in their rear ; 
— ^they came bounding along. " Crack ! " went the rifle ; 
and a fine buck pitched upon his head. Again the little 
Fletcher spoke, and down went another within ten yards 
of the first. " A spare gun, Eicharn ! " and Oswell's 
Purdey was slipped into my hand. " Only one barrel is 
loaded," said Eicharn. I saw a splendid buck coming 
along with a doe by his side ; — she protected him from 
the shot as they came on at right angles with the gim ; 
but knowing that the ball would go through her and 
reach him on the other side, I fired at her shoulder, — 
she fell dead to the shot, but he went off scatheless. I 
now found that Eicharn hadr loaded the gun with twenty 
mould shot instead of ball; — these were confined in a 
cartridge, and had killed her on the spot. 

I had thus bagged five antelopes ; and, cutting off the 
heads of the bucks, we left the bodies for the natives, who 
were anxiously watching us from a distance, but afraid 
to approach. The antelope first shot that was nearer to 



312 ABRIKE AT JUNCTION OF BAER EL OAZAL. [Chap. X. 

the boat, we dragged on board, with the assistance of ten 
or twelve men. The buck was rather larger than an 
average donkey; — colour, black, with a white patch across 
the withers; — a white crown to the head; white round 
the eyes ; chest black, but belly white ; the horns about 
two feet four inches long, and bending gracefully back- 
wards. 

A few days after this incident we arrived at the junction 
of the Bahr el Gazal, and turning sharp to the east, we 
looked forward to arriving at the extraordinary obstruc- 
tion that since our passage in 1863 had dammed the 
White Nile. 

There was considerable danger in the descent of the 
river upon nearing this peculiar dam, as the stream plunged 
below it by a subterranean channel with a rush like a 
cataract. A large diahbiah laden with ivory had been 
carried beneath the dam on her descent from Gondokoro 
in the previous year, and had never been seen afterwards. 
I ordered the reis to have the anchor in readiness, and two 
powerful hawsers; should we arrive in the evening, he 
was to secure the vessel to the bank, and not to attempt 
the passage through the canal until the following morning. 

We anchored about half a mile above the dam. 

This part of the Nile is boundless marsh, portions of 
which were at this season terra firma. The river ran 
from west to east; the south bank was actual ground 



Chap. X.] ARRIVE AT THE NILE DAM. 313 

covered with mimosas, but to the north and west the 
flat marsh covered with high weeds was iaterminable. 

At daybreak we manned the oars and floated down the 
rapid stream. In a few minutes we heard the rush of 
water, and we saw the dam stretching across the river 
before us. The marsh being firm, our men immediately- 
jumped out on the left bank and manned the hawsers — 
one fastened from the stem, the other from the bow; this 
arrangement prevented the boat from turning broadside 
on to the dam, by which accident the shipwrecked diahbiah 
had been lost. As we approached the dam, I perceived 
the canal or ditch that had been cut by the crews of the 
vessels that had ascended the river ; it was about ten feet 
wide, and would barely allow the passage of our diahbiah. 
This canal was already choked with masses of floating 
vegetation and natural rafts of reeds and mud that the 
river carried with it, the accumulation of which had 
originally formed the dam. 

Having secured the vessel by carrying out an anchor 
astern and burying it on the marsh, while a rope fastened 
from the bow to the high reeds kept her stern to the 
stream, aU hands jumped into the canal and commenced 
dragging out the entangled masses of weeds, reeds, ambatch 
wood, grass, and mud that had choked the entrance. Half 
a day was thus passed, at the expiration of which time 
we towed our vessel safely into the ditch, where she lay 



314 CHARACTER OF THE OBSTBUCTLON. [Chap. X. 

out of danger. It was necessary to discliarge all cargo 
from the boat, in order to reduce her draught of water. 
This tedious operation completed, and many bushels 
of corn being piled upon mats spread upon the reeds 
beaten flat, we endeavoured to push her along the canal. 
Although the obstruction was annoying it was a most 
interesting object. 

The river had suddenly disappeared: there was ap- 
parently an end to the White Nile. The dam was about 
three-quarters of a mile wide ; it was perfectly firm, and 
was already overgrown with high reeds and grass, thus 
forming a continuation of the surrounding, country. Many 
of the traders' people had died of the plague at this spot 
during the delay of some weeks in cutting the canal ; the 
graves of these dead were upon the dam. The bottom of 
the canal that had been cut through the dam was perfectly 
firm, composed of sand, mud, and interwoven decaying 
vegetation. The river arrived with great force at the 
abrupt edge of the obstruction, bringing with it all kinds 
of trash and large floating islands. N'one of these objects 
hitched against the edge, but the instant they struck 
they dived under and disappeared. It was in this 
manner that the vessel had been lost — ^having missed the 
narrow entrance to the canal, she had struck the dam 
stem on ; the force of the current immediately turned 
her broadside against the obstruction ; the floating islands 



Chap. X.] PASSAGE TEUOVOR TEE BAM. 31 5 

and masses of vegetation 'bronght down by the river 
were heaped against her, and heeling over on her side she 
was sucked hodily under and carried beneath the dam ; 
her crew had time to save themselves by leaping upon 
the firm barrier that had wrecked their ship. The boat- 
men told me that dead hippopotami had been fomid 
on the other side, that had been carried under the dam 
and drowned. 

Two days' hard work from morning till night brought 
us through the canal, and we once more found ourselves 
on the open Nile on the other side of the dam. The 
river was in that spot perfectly clean ; not a vestige of 
floating vegetation could be seen upon its watery; in its 
subterranean passage it had passed through a natural sieve, 
leaving all foreign matter behind to add to the bulk of 
the already stupendous work. 

All before us was clear and plain sailing. Por some 
days two or three of our men had been complaining of 
severe headache, giddiness, and violent pains in the spine 
and between the shoulders. I had been anxious when at 
Gondokoro concerning the vessel, as many persons had 
died on board of the plague during the voyage from 
Khartoum. The men assured me that the most fatal 
symptom was violent bleeding from the nose ; in such 
cases no one had been known to recover. One of the 
boatmen, who had been ailing for some days, suddenly 



316 THE PLAGUE BREAKS OUT ! [Chap. X. 

went to the side of the vessel and hung his head over 
the river ; his nose was bleeding ! 

Another of my men, Yaseen, was HI; his imcle, my 
vakeel, came to me with a report that "his nose was 
bleeding violently ! " Several other men fell ill : they lay 
helplessly about the deck in low muttering delirium, their 
eyes as yellow as orange-peel. In two or three days the 
vessel was so horribly offensive as to be unbearable; the 
plague had broken out! We floated past the river Sobat 
junction ; the wind was fair from the south, thus for- 
tunately we in the stern were to windward of the crew. 
Yaseen died ; he was one who had bled at the nose. "We 
stopped to bury him. The funeral hastily arranged, we 
again set sail. Mahommed died ; he had bled at the • 
nose. Another burial. Once more we set sail and 
hurried down the Nile. Several men were Ul, but the 
dreaded symptom had not appeared. I had given each 
man a strong dose of calomel at the commencement of the 
disease ; I could do nothing more, as my medicines were 
exhausted. All night we could hear the sick, muttering 
and raving in delirium, but from years of association 
with disagreeables we had no fear of the infection. One 
morning the boy Saat came to me with his head bound 
up, and complained of severe pain in the back and limbs, 
with aU the usual symptoms of plague : in the afternoon 
I saw him leaning over the ship's side ; his nose was 



Chap. X.] ENTERTAINEB BT OSMAN BET. 317 

bleeding violently ! At night he was delirious. On the 
foUowing momiag he was raving, and on the vessel stop- 
ping to collect firewood he threw himself into the river 
to cool the burning fever that consumed him. His eyes 
were suffused with blood, which, blended with a yellow 
as deep as the yolk of egg, gave a horrible appearance to 
his face, that was already so drawn and changed as to be 
hardly recognised. Poor Saat ! the faithful boy that we 
had adopted, and who had formed so bright an exception 
to the dark character of his race, was now a victim to 
this horrible disease. He was a fine strong lad of nearly 
fifteen, and he now lay helplessly on his mat, and cast 
wistful glances at the face of his mistress as she gave 
him a cup of cold water mixed with a few lumps of sugar 
that we had obtained from the traders at Gondokoro. 

We arrived at Fashoder, in the Shillook country, where 
the Egyptian Government had formed a camp of a 
thousand men to take possession of the country. We 
were well received and hospitably entertained by Osman 
Bey, to whom our thanks are due for the first civilized 
reception after years of savagedom. At Fashoder we 
procured lentils, rice, and dates, which were to us great 
luxuries, and would be a blessing to the plague-smitten 
boy, as we could now make some soup. Goats we had 
purchased in the Shir country for molotes (iron hoes) that 
we had received in exchange for corn at Gondokoro from 



318 SAAT DTING OF TEE PLAQUE. [Chap. X. 

Koorshid's agent who was responsible for the supply I had 
left in dep6t. We left Fashoder, and continued our voyage 
towards Khartoum. 

Saat grew worse and worse : nothing would relieve the 
unfortunate boy from the burning torture of that frightful 
disease. He never slept, but night and day he muttered 
in delirium, breaking the monotony of his malady by 
occasionally howling like a wild animal. Eicharn won my 
heart by his careful nursing of the boy, who had been his 
companion through years of hardship. We arrived at the 
viQage of Wat Sh^ly, only three days from Khartoum. 
Saat was dying. The night passed, and I expected that 
aU would be over before sunrise ; but as morning dawned 
a change had taken place, — the burning fever had left him, 
and although raised blotches had broken out upon his 
chest and various parts of his body, he appeared much 
better. We now gave him stimulants ; a tea-spoonful of 
araki that we had bought at Fashoder was administered 
every ten minutes on a lump of sugar. This he crunched 
in his mouth, whUe he gazed at my wife with an ex- 
pression of affection, but he could not speak. I had him 
well washed and dressed in clean clothes, that had been 
kept most carefully during the voyage, to be worn on our 
entree to Khartoum. He was laid down to sleep upon a 
clean mat, and my wife gave him a lump of sugar to 
moisten his mouth and relieve his thickly-furred tongue. 



Chap. X.] BURIAL OF SAAT. 319 

His ptilse was very weak, and his skia cold. " Poor Saat," 
said my wife, "his life hangs upon a thread. We must 
nurse him most carefully; should he have a relapse, 
nothing will save him." An hour passed, and he slept. 
Karka, the fat, good-natured slave woman, quietly went to 
his side : gently taking him. hy the ankles and knees, she 
stretched his legs into a straight position, and laid his 
arms parallel with his sides. She then covered his face 
with a cloth, one of the few rags that we stHl possessed. 
"Does he sleep stiH?" we asked. The tears ran down the 
cheeks of the savage but good-hearted Karka, as she 
sobhed, " He is dead !" 

We stopped the boat. It was a sandy shore ; the banks 
were high, and a clump of mimosas grew above high 
water-mark. It was there that we dug his grave. My 
men worked silently and sadly, for all loved Saat : he had 
been so good and true, that even their hard hearts had 
learnt to respect his honesty. We laid him in his grave 
on the desert shore, beneath the grove of trees. Again 
the sail was set, and, iilled by the breeze, it carried us 
away from the dreary spot where we had sorrowfully left 
. all that was good and faithful. It was a happy end- 
most merciful, as he had been taken from a land of 
iniquity in aU the purity of a child converted from 
Paganism to Christianity. He had lived and died in our 
service a good Christian. Our voyage was nearly over, 



320 JRRIfAL AT KHARTOUM. [Chap. X. 

and we looked forward to home and friends, tut we had 
still fatigues before us : poor Saat had reached his home 
and rest. Two faithful followers we had buried, — Johann 
Schmidt at the commencement of the voyage, and Saat at - 
its termination. 

A few miles from this spot, a head wind delayed us for 
several days. Losing patience, I engaged camels from 
the Arabs ; and ridiug the whole day, we reached Blhartoum 
about half an hour after sunset on the 5th of May, 1865. 

On the following morning we were welcomed by the 
entire European population of Khartoum, to whom are 
due my warmest thanks for many kind attentions. We 
were kiadly offered a house by Monsieur Lombrosio, the 
manager of the Khartoum branch of the " Oriental and 
Egyptian Trading Company." 

I now heard the distressing news of the death of my 
poor friend Speke. I could not realize the truth of this 
melancholy report until I read the details of his fatal 
accident in the appendix of a French translation of his., 
work. It was but a sad consolation that I could confirm 
his discoveries, and bear witness to the tenacity and 
perseverance with which he had led his party through the 
untrodden path of Africa to the first Nile source. This 
being the close of the expedition, I wish it to be distuictly 
understood how thoroughly I support the credit of Speke 
and Grant for their discovery of the first and most 



Chap. X.] ALBERT LAKH RESBRVOIB OF NILE. 321 

elevated source of the Nile in the great Victoria N'yanza. 
Although I caU the river between the two lakes the 
" Somerset," as it was named by Speke upon the map he 
gave to me, I must repeat that it is positively the Victoria 
Nile, and the name " Somerset" is only used to distinguish 
it, ia my description, from the entire NUe that issues from 
the Albert N'yanza. 

"Whether the volume of water added by the latter lake 
be greater than that supplied by the Victoria, the fact 
remains unaltered: the Victoria is the highest and first- 
discovered source ; the Albert is the second soiirce, but the 
entire reservoir of the Nile waters. I use the term source 
as applying to each reservoir as a head or maiu starting- 
poiat of the river. I am quite aware that it is a debated 
point among geographers, whether a lake can be called a 
source, as it owes its origia to one or many rivers ; but, as 
the irmumerable torrents of the mountaiuous regions of 
Central Africa pour iato these great reservoirs, it would be 
impossible to give preference to any individual stream. Such 
a theory would become a source of great confusion, and the 
Nile sources might remain for ever undecided ; a thousand 
fature travellers might return, each with his particular 
source in his poi-tfolio, some stream of insignificant 
magnitude being pushed forward as the true prigin of 
the Nile. 

I found few letters awaiting me at Khartoum: all the 

VOL. II. Y 



322 DESTRUCTION BY THE PLAGUE. [Chap. X. 

European population of the place had long ago given us 
up for lost. It was my -wish to start without delay direct 
for England, hut there were extraordinary difficulties in 
this wretched country of the Soudan. A drought of two 
years had created a famine throughout the land, attended 
hy a cattle and camel plague, that had destroyed so many 
cameM that all commerce was stagnated. No merchandise 
could he transported from Khartoum;, thus no purchases 
could be made hy the traders in the interior : the country, 
always wretched, was ruined. 

The plague, or a malignant typhus, had run riot in 
Khartoum: out of 4,000 black troops, only a remnant 
below 400 remained alive I This frightful malady, that 
had visited our boat, had revelled in the filth and crowded 
alleys of the Soudan capital 

The Blue Nile was so low that even the noggurs drawing 
three feet of water could not descend the river. Thus, 
the camels being dead, and the river impassable, no com 
could be brought from Sennaar and Watmeden^: there 
was a famine in Kiartoum — neither fodder for animals, 
nor food for man. Being unable to procure either camels 
or boats, I was compelled to wait at Khartoum until the 
Nile should rise sufficiently to enable us to pass the 
cataracts between that town and Berber.* 

* The want of water in the Blue Nile, as here described, exemplifies the 
theory that Lower Egypt owes its existence during the greater portion of 
the year entirely to the yolume of the White Nile. 



Chap. X.] A DARKNESS THAT MIGHT BH FELT. 323 

We remained two months at Khartoum. During this 
time we were subjected to intense heat and constant dust- 
storms, attended with a general plague of toils. Verily, 
the plagues of Egypt remain to this day ia the Soudan. 
On the 26th June, we had the most extraordinary dust- 
storm that had ever been seen by the inhabitants. I was 
sitting in the courtyard of my agent's house at about 
4.30 P.M. : there was no wind, and the sun was as bright 
as usual in this cloudless sky, when suddenly a gloom was 
cast over all, — a dull yellow glare pervaded the atmosphere. 
Knowing that this effect portended a dust-storm, and that 
the present calm would be followed by a hurricane of 
wind, I rose to go home, intending to secure the shutters. 
Hardly had I risen, when I saw approaching, from the 
S.W. apparently, a solid range of immense brown moim- 
tains, high in air. So rapid was the passage of this 
extraordinary phenomenon, that in a few minutes we were 
in actual pitchy darkness. At first there was no wind, 
and the peculiar calm gave an oppressive character to the 
event. "We were in "a darkness that might be felt." 
Suddenly the wind arrived, but not with the violence that 
I had expected. There were two persons with me, Michael 
LatfaUa, my agent, and Monsieur Lombrosio. So intense 
was the darkness, that we tried to distinguish our hands 
placed close before our eyes;— not even an outline could 
be seen. This lasted for upwards of twenty minutes : it 

y2 



324 HORRIBLE SLAVE CARGO. [Chap. X. 

then rapidly passed away, and the sun shone as before; 
hut we had felt the darkness that Moses had inflicted upon 
the Egyptians. 

The Egyptian Grovernment had, it appeared, heen pressed 
by some of the European Powers to take measures for the 
suppression of the slave-trade : a steamer had accordingly 
been ordered to capture all vessels laden with this in- 
famous cargo. Two vessels had been seized and brought to 
Khartoum, contaimng 850 human beings ! — packed together 
like anchovies, the living and the dying festering together, 
and the dead lying beneath them. European eye-witnesses 
assured me that the disembarking of this frightful cargo 
could not be adequately described. The slaves were in a 
state of starvation, having had nothing to eat for several 
days. They were landed in Khartoum; the dead and 
many of the dying were tied by the ankles, and dragged 
along the ground by donkeys through the streets. The 
most malignant typhus, or plague, had been engendered 
among this mass of filth and misery, thus closely packed 
together. Upon landing, the women were divided by the 
Egyptian authorities among the soldiers. These creatures 
brought the plague to Khartoum, which, Kke a curse 
visited upon this country of slavery and abomination, 
spread Kke a iire throughout the town, and consumed the 
regiments that had received this horrible legacy from the 
dying cargo of slaves. Among others captured by the 



Chap. X.] MBET WITH MJSOMMBD HER. 325 

authorities on a charge of slave-trading was an Austrian 
subject, who was then in the custody of the consul. A 
French gentleman, Monsieur Garnier, had been sent to 
Khartoum by the French Consulate of Alexandria on a 
special inquiry into the slave-trade ; he was devoting 
himseK to the subject with much energy. 

While at Khartoum I happened to find Mahommed 
Her ! the vakeel of Chenooda's party, who had instigated 
my men to mutiay at Latooka, and had taken my deserters 
into his employ. I had promised to make an example of 
this feUow; I therefore had him arrested, and brought 
before the Divan. "With extreme effrontery, he denied 
having had anything to do with the affair, adding to his 
denial all knowledge of the total destruction of his party 
and of my mutineers by the Latookas. Having a crowd 
of witnesses in my own men, and others that I had found 
ia Khartoum who had belonged to Koorshid's party at 
that time, his barefaced lie was exposed, and he was con- 
victed. I determiaed that he should be punished, as an 
example that would insure respect to any future English 
traveller ia those regions. My men, and all those with 
whom I had been connected, had been accustomed to 
rely most implicitly upon aU that I had promised, and 
the punishment of this man had been an expressed 
determination. 

I went to the Divan and demanded that he should be 



326 MAHOMMED HER FUNISHED. [Chap. X. 

flogged. Omer Bey -vras then Governor of the Soudan, in 
the place of Moosa Pasha deceased. He sat upon the 
divan, in the large hall of justice by the river. Motioning 
me to take a seat by his side, and handing me his pipe, he 
called the officer in waiting, and gave the necessary orders. 
In a few minutes the prisoner was led into the haU, 
attended by eight soldiers. One man carried a strong pole 
about seven feet long, in the centre of which was a double 
chaia, riveted throiigh in a loop. The prisoner was imme- 
diately thrown down with his face to the ground, while 
two men stretched out his arms and sat upon them ; his 
feet were then placed within the loop of the chain, and 
the pole being twisted roimd until firmly secured, it was 
raised from the ground sufficiently to expose the soles of 
the feet. Two men with powerful hippopotamus whips 
stood, one on either side. The prisoner thus secured, the 
order was given. The whips were most scientifically applied, 
and after the first five dozen, the slave-hunting scoimdrel 
howled most lustily for mercy. How often had he flogged 
unfortunate slave women to excess, and what murders had 
that wretch committed, who now howled for mercy ! I 
begged Omer Bey to stop the punishment at 150 lashes, 
and to explain to him publicly in the divan, that he was 
thus punished for attempting to thwart the expedition of 
an English traveller, by instigating my escort to mutiny. 
This affair over — all my accounts paid — and my men 



Chap. X.] NEAULT WBECKED. 327 

dismissed with their hands full of money, — I was ready to 
start for Egypt. The Nile rose sufficiently to enable the 
passage of the cataracts, and on the 30th June we took 
leave of aU friends in Khartoum, and of my very kind 
agent, Michael LatfaUa, well known as HaUil el Shami, 
who had most generously cashed all my hUls on Cairo 
without charging a fraction of exchange. On the morning 
of 1st July, we sailed from Khartoum to Berber. 

On approaching the fine basalt hiUs through which the 
river passes during its course from Khartoum, I was sur- 
prised to see the great Nile contracted to a trifling width 
of from eighty to a hundred and twenty yards. Walled 
by high cliffs of basalt upon either side, the vast volume 
of the Nile flows grandly through this romantic pass, the 
water boiling up in curling eddies, showing that rocky 
obstructions exist in its profound depths below. 

Our voyage was very nearly terminated at the passage 
of the cataracts. Many skeletons of wrecked vessels lay 
upon the rocks in various places : as we were flyiug along 
in fuU sail before a heavy gale of wind, descending a 
cataract, we struck upon a sandbank — fortunately not upon 
a rock, or we should have gone to pieces like a glass bottle. 
The tremendous force of the stream, running at the rate of 
about ten or twelve miles per hour, immediately drove the 
vessel broadside upon the bank. About sixty yards below 
us was a ridge of rocks, upon which it appeared certain 



328 STRANDED AMONG CATARACTS. [Chap. X. 

that we must be driven should we quit the bank upon 
which we were stranded. The reis and crew, as usual in 
such cases, lost their heads. I emptied a large waterproof 
portmanteau, and tied it together with ropes, so as to form 
a Hfe-buoy for my wife and Eicharn, neither of whom 
could swim ; the maps, journals, and observations, I packed 
in an iron box, which I fastened with a tow-line to the 
portmanteau. It appeared that we were to wind up the 
expedition with shipwreck, and thus lose my entire collec- 
tion of hunting spoils. Having completed the preparations 
for escape, I took command of the vessel, and silenced the 
chattering crew. 

My first order was to lay out an anchor up stream. 
This was done : the water was shallow, and the great 
weight of the anchor, carried on the shoulders of two men, 
enabled them to resist the current, and to wade hip-deep 
about forty yards up the stream upon the sandbank. 

Thus secured, I ordered the crew to haul upon the cable. 
The great force of the current bearing upon the broadside 
of the vessel, while her head was anchored up stream, bore 
her gradually round. All hands were now employed in 
clearing away the sand, and deepening a passage : loosen- 
ing the sand with their hands and feet, the powerful rapids 
carried it away. For five hours we remained in this 
position, the boat cracking, and half filled with water : 
however, we stopped the leak caused by the strain upon 



Chap. X.] CLUAB TEE DANQER. 329 

her timbers, and having, after much labour, cleared a 
channel in the narrow sandbank, the moment arrived to 
slip the cable, hoist the sail, and trust to the heavy gale of 
wind from the west to clear the rocks, that lay within a 
few yards of us to 'the north. "Let go !" and, aU being 
prepared, the sail was loosened, and filling in the strong 
gale with a loud report, the head of the vessel swung 
round with the force of wind and stream. Away we flew ! 
For an instant we grated on some hard substance : we stood 
upon the deck, watching the rocks exactly before us, with 
the rapids roaring loudly around our boat as she rushed 
upon what looked like certain destruction. Another 
moment, and we passed within a few inches of the rocks 
within the boUing surf. Hurrah ! we are aU right ! We 
swept by the danger, and flew along the rapids, hurrying 
towards Old England. 

' "We arrived at Berber, the spot from which we had 
started upwards of four years ago for our Atbara expedi- 
tion. Here we were most hospitably received by Mon- 
sieur and Madame Laffargue, a French gentleman and his 
charming wife, who had for many years been residents in 
the Soudan. It is with feelings of gratitude that I express 
my thanks to all Frenchmen that I have met m those wild 
countries, for courtesies and attention, that were appre- 
ciated by me like unexpected flowers ia a desert. I can 
only hope that Frenchmen may, when in need, receive the 



330 START FROM BERBBR TO SOUAKIM. [Chap. X. 

same kindness from my countrymen, when travelling 
in lands far distant from la lelle France. 

I determined upon the Eed Sea route to Egypt, instead 
of passing the horrible Korosko desert during the hot 
month of August. After some delay I procured camels, 
and started east for Souakim, from whence I hoped to 
procure a steamer to Suez. 

This route from Berber is not the usual caravan road ; 
the country was in rather a disturbed state, owing to the 
mutiny of aU the black troops in the Egyptian service in 
the Taka province ; and the Hadendowa Arabs, who are at 
no time the best of their race, were very excited. The 
first eight days' journey are devoid of water, except at two 
stations, — ^the route being desert. Our party consisted of 
my wife, Eicharn, Achmet, and Z^neb ; the latter was a 
six-foot girl of the Dinka tribe, with whom Eicharn had 
fallen in love and married during our sojourn at Khar- 
toum. Zdneb was a good girl, rather pretty, as strong 
as a giraffe, and a good cook ; a very valuable acquisition 
for Eicharn. Her husband, who had been my faithful 
follower, was now a rich man, being the owner of 
thirty napoleons, the balance of his wages. Achmet was 
an Egyptian servant, whom I had recently engaged in 
Khartoum. I had also offered a Swiss missionary the 
protection of our party. 

One day, during the heat of noon, after a long march in 



Chap. X] A ROW IN THE DESERT. 331 

the burning sun through a treeless desert, we descried a 
solitary tree in the distance, to which we hurried as to 
a friend. Upon arrival, we found its shade occupied by a 
number of Hadendowa Arabs. Dismounting from our 
camels, we requested them to move and to give place for 
our party — as a tree upon the desert is like a well of 
water, to be shared by every traveller. Tar from giving 
the desired place, they most insolently refused to allow 
us to share the tree. Upon Eicharn attempting to take 
possession, he was rudely pushed on one side, and an Arab 
drew his knife. Achmet had a coorbatch (hippopotamus 
whip) in his hand, that he had used on his camel ; the act 
of raising this to threaten the Arab who had drawn his 
knife was the signal for hostilities. Out flashed the 
broadswords from their sheaths ! and the headman of the 
party aimed a weU-iutended cut at my head. Parrying 
the cut with my sun umbrella, I returned with a quick 
thrust directly in the mouth, the point of the peaceful 
weapon penetrating to his throat with such force that he 
fell upon his back. Almost at the same moment I had to 
parry another cut from one of the crowd that smashed my 
umbrella completely, and left me with my remaining 
weapons, a stout Turkish pipe-stick about four feet long, 
and my fist. Parrying with the stick, thrusting in return 
at the face, and hitting sharp with the left hand, I managed 
to keep three or four of the' party on and off upon their 



332 COMBAT WITH THE JBABS. [Chap. X. 

backs, receiving a slight cut -with a sword upon my left 
arm in countering a blow wbich just grazed me as I 
knocked down the owner, and disarmed him. My wife 
picked up the sword, as I had no time to stoop, and she 
stood well at bay with her newly-acquired weapon that a 
disarmed Arab wished to wrest from her, but dared not 
close with the naked blade. I had had the fight all my 
own way, as, being beneath the tree (the boughs of which 
were very near the ground), the Arabs, who do not under- 
stand the use of the point, were unable to use their swords, 
as their intended cuts were intercepted by the branches. 
Vigorous thrusting and straight hitting cleared the tree, 
and the party were scattered right and left, followed up by 
Eicharn and Achmet, armed with double-barrelled rifles. 
I was determined to disarm the whole party, if possible. 
One of the Arabs, armed with a lance, rushed up to attack 
Richarn from behind ; but Z^neb was of the warlike Dinka 
tribe, and having armed herself with the hard wood handle 
of the axe, she went into the row like "Joan of Arc," and 
hastening to the rescue of Eicharn, she gave the Arab 
such a whack upon the head that she knocked him down 
on the spot, and seizing his lance she disarmed him. 
Thus armed, she rushed into the thickest of the fray. 

'' Bravo, Z^neb ! " I could not help shouting. Seizing a 
thick stick that had been dropped by one of the Arabs, I 
called Eicharn and our little party together, and attackiag 



Chap. X.] DISARM THE ARABS. 333 

the few Arabs who still offered resistance, they were imme- 
diately knocked down and disarmed. The leader of the 
party, who had been the first to draw his sword and had 
received a mouthful of umbrella, had not moved from the 
spot where he fell, but amused himself with coughing and 
spitting. I now ordered him to be bound, and threatened 
to tie him to my camel's tail and lead him a prisoner to 
the Governor of Souakim, unless he called all those of his 
party who had run away. They were now standing at a 
distance in the desert, and I insisted upon the delivery of 
their weapons. Being thoroughly beaten and cowed, he 
conferred with those whom we had taken prisoners, and 
the affair ended by all the arms being delivered up. 
We counted six swords, eleven lances, and a heap of 
knives, the number of which I forget. 

I ordered the entire party to stand in a line ; and I 
gave them their choice, whether the ringleaders would 
receive a floggiag from me, or whether I should tie them 
to the tails of camels and lead them to the Turkish 
Governor of Souakim? They immediately chose the 
former ; and, calling them from the rank, I ordered them 
to lie down on the ground to receive punishment. 

They submitted like dogs; Eicham and Achmet stood 
over them with their whips, ready for the word. At this 
moment an old white-headed Arab of my caravan came to 
me : kneeling down, he stroked my beard with his dirty 



334 CROSS TEE MOUNTAINS. [Chap. X. 

hands, and implored pardon for the offenders. Thoroughly 
understanding the Arab character, I replied, "They are 
miserable sons of dogs, and their swords are Kke the 
feathers of a fowl ; they deserve flogging, but when a white 
head asks for pardon, it should be granted. God is 
merciful, and we are aU his children.'' Thus was the affair 
ended to the satisfaction of our side. I broke aU the 
lances into fragments upon a rock, — ordered Zi^neb to 
make a fire with the wood of the handles, to boil some 
coffee ; and tying the swords into a bundle, we packed the 
lance-heads and knives in a basket, with the understanding 
that they should be delivered to their owners on our 
arrival at the last well, after which point there would be 
water on the route every day. From that place, there would 
be no fear of our camels being stolen, and of our being 
deserted in the desert, . 

On arrival at the well a few days later, I delivered the 
weapons to their owners as promised, they having followed 
our party. Souakim is about 275 nules from the Nile 
at Berber. At Kokreb, about half-way, we entered the 
chain of mountains that extends from Suez parallel with 
the Eed Sea to the south. ; many portions of this chain are 
four or five thousand feet above the sea-level. The moun- 
tains were exceedingly beautiful, their precipitous sides of 
barren rock exhibiting superb strata of red and grey 
granite, with vast masses of exquisite red and green 



Chap. X.] KOKREB. 335 

porphyry. Many Mils were of basalt, so black, that during 
an entire day's journey the face of the country appeared 
like a vast desert of coal, in broken hills and blocks 
strewed over the surface of the ground. Kokreb was a 
lovely oasis beneath the high mountains, with a forest of 
low mimosas in fuU leaf, and a stream running from the 
mountains, the produce of a recent storm. Throughout 
this country there are no rivers that should be noticed on 
a map, as the torrents are merely the effects of violent 
storms, which, falling upon the mountains several times 
during the rainy season from June to the end of August, 
tear their boisterous way along their stony course and dry 
up in a few hours, beco.ming exhausted in the sand of the 
deserts. For some days our course lay along a deep ravine 
between stupendous cliffs ; this was the bed of a torrent, 
that, after heavy storms, flowed through the mountains, 
incUning to the east ; in this were pools of most beauti- 
fully clear water. In many places the nooks among the 
cliffs were fringed with lovely green trees. It was extra- 
ordinary to observe the activity of the camels in chmbing 
the most difficult passes, and in picking their way among 
the rocks and stones that obstructed the route. In many 
places camels might be seen grazing upon the green 
mimosa bushes, that growing among the rocks high upon 
the mountains had tempted the animals into places that I 
should not have believed they could have reached. 



336 SOUAKIM. [Chap. X. 

After a journey of twenty-four days from the Nile at 
~ Berber, we emerged from the mountain-pass, and from the 
elevated emhouchure we obtained a sudden and most 
welcome view of the Eed Sea. We now quickly descended: 
the heat iucreased every hour; and after a long day's 
march, we slept within a few miles of Souakim. On the 
following momiug we entered the town. 

Souakim is a considerable town; the houses are all 
built of coral. The priacipal dwellings, and the custom- 
house and Government offices are situated on an island in 
the harbour. We were received with much attention by the 
Governor, Moomtazz^ Bey, who very kindly offered us a 
house. The heat was frightful, the thermometer 115° Pahr., 
and in some houses 120°. 

There is no doubt that Souakim should be the port for 
aU exports and imports for the Soudan provinces. Were a 
Hae of steamers established from Suez, to call regularly 
at Souakim, at a moderate freight, it would become a most 
prosperous town, as the geographical position marks it as 
the nucleus for all trade with the interior. At present 
there is no regularity: the only steamers that touch at 
Souakim are those belonging to the Abdul Azziz Com- 
pany, who trade between Suez and Jedda. Although 
advertised for distinct periods, they only visit Souakim 
when they think proper, and their rates are most exor- 
bitant. 



Chap. X.] AUUIVAL AT SUEZ. 33J 

There was no steamer upon our arrival. After waiting 
in intense lieat for about a fortnight, the Egyptian thirty- 
two gun steam frigate, IhraMmeya, arrived with a regi- 
ment of Egyptian troops, under Giaffer Pasha, to quell 
the mutiny of the black troops at Kassala, twenty days' 
march in the interior. The General Giaffer Pasha, and 
Mustapha Bey the captain of the frigate, gave us an 
entertainment on board in English style, in honour of 
the completion of the 'Nile discovery. Giaffer Pasha 
most kindly placed the frigate at our disposal to convey 
us to Suez, and both he and Mustapha Bey endeavoured 
in every way to accommodate us. For their extreme 
courtesy I take this opportunity of making my acknow- 
ledgment. 

Orders for sailing had been received, but siiddenly a 
steamer was signalled as arriving : this was a transport, 
with troops. As she was to return' immediately to Suez, 
I preferred the dirty transport rather than incur a further 
delay. We started from Souakim, and after live days' 
voyage we arrived at Suez. Landing from the steamer, I 
once more found myself in an English hotel. The spacious 
ianer court was arranged as an open conservatory ; in this 
was a bar for refreshments, and "Allsopp's Pale Ale" on 
draught, with an ice accompaniment. What an Elysium ! 
The beds had sheets and pillow-cases I neither of which 
had I possessed for years. 

VOL. II. Z 



338 FABEVELL TO AFRICA. [Chap. X, 

The hotel was thronged with passengers to India, with 
rosy, bloomiag English ladies, and crowds of my own 
countrymen. I felt incliaed to talk to everyhody. JS'ever 
was I so in love with my own countrymen and women ; 
but they (I mean the ladies) all had large balls of hair 
at the backs of their heads ! What an extraordinary 
change ! I called Eicharn, my pet savage from the heart 
of Africa, to admire them. " Now, Eicharn, look at them !" 
I said. " What do you think of the English ladies ? eh, 
Eicharn 1 Are they not lovely 1" 

"Wah Illahi!" exclaimed the astonished Eicharn, 
" they are beautiful ! What hair ! They are not like the 
negro savages, who work other people's hair into their 
own heads; theirs is all real — all their own — how beau- 
tiful !" 

" Yes, Eicharn," I replied, "all their own!" This was 
my first iatroduction to the " chignon." 

We arrived at Cairo, and I established Eicharn and 
his wife ia a comfortable situation, as private -servants 
to Mr. Zech, the master of Sheppard's Hotel. The cha- 
racter I gave him was one that I trust has done him 
service : he had shown an extraordinary amount of moral 
courage in totally reforming from his origiaal habit of 
drinking. I left my old servant with a heart too fuU 
to say good-bye ; a warm squeeze of his rough, but honest 
black hand, and the whistle of the train sounded, — we 
were off! 



Chap. X.] EXERTIONS APPRECIATED. 339 

I had left Kicharn, and none remained of my people. 
The past appeared like a dream — the rushing sound of 
the train renewed ideas of civilization. Had I really 
come from the Mle Sources? It was no dream. A 
witness sat before me ; a face still young, but bronzed 
like an Arab by years of exposure to a burning sun ; 
haggard and worn with toil and sickness, and shaded 
with cares, happily now past ; • the devoted companion 
of my pilgrimage, to whom I owed success and life — 
my wife. 

I had received letters from England, that had been 
waiting at the British Consulate; — the first I opened 
iuformed me, that the Eoyal Geographical Society had 
awarded me the Victoria Gold Medal, at a time when 
they were unaware whether I was alive or dead, and 
when the success of my expedition was imknown. This 
appreciation of my exertions was the warmest welcome 
that I could have received on my first entrance into 
civilization after so many years of savagedom : it rendered 
the completion of the Nile Sources doubly grateful, as I 
had fulfilled the expectations that the Geographical Society 
had so generously expressed by the presentation of their 
medal hefi/re my task was done. 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX. 



COMPUTATION OF Me. BAKEE'S OBSEEVATIONS. 



Heights of Stations above the Mean Level of the Sea determined 
hy Boiling-water Observations by S. W. Baker, Esq. com- 
puted by E. Ddnkin, Esq. of Greenwich Observatory. 



TarrangoUe .... 
Obbo 




Feet. 

. 2047 

3480 


Shoggo . . ... 
Asua Eiver 




. 3770 
2619 


Shooa 




3619 


Rioiiga's Island .... 




. . 3685 


Karuma, below falls . . 




. 3737 


,, south of falls . 




3796 


South of Karuma, at river level . . 


. 3794 


M'rooli, river level, junction of Eafoor 
West of M'rooli, on road to Albert lake 


. 3796 
. 4291 


Land above lake, east cliflf . 
Albert N'yanza, lake level . 




. 4117 




, 2448 


Shooa Moru, island of Patooan . . 


. 2918 


Goudokoro 


1636 



The above heights will he found to differ considerably from 
those given by Mr. Baker in his letter written from Khartoum 



344 APPENDIX. 

in May, 1865, and published in the Times newspaper in June. 
This arises from Mr. Baker having corrected his observations, 
whilst in the iuterior of Africa, from what have siuce proved 
erroneous data : the above are the correct computations of the 
same observations. 



Remarhs on the Thermometer B. W. need hy Mr. S. W. Bakbjb in 
determining Heights. By Staff - Commander C. George, 
Curator of Maps, Eoyal Geographical Society. 

This thermometer was one of the three supplied by the Eoyal 
Geographical Society to Consul Petherick, in 1861, and was 
made by Mr. CaseUa. 

At Gondokoro, in March, 1862, it was lent to Mr. Baker, 
who made all his observations with it, and brought it back safe : 
it has, therefore, been in use about 4| years. 

On November 9th, 1865, Mr. Baker returned it to the Eoyal 
Geographical Society, and it was immediately taken to Mr. 
CaseUa, who tested its accuracy by trying its boiling-poiat, in 
nearly the same manner as Mr. Baker had made his observa- 
tions. The result by two independent observers was that the 
boiUng-point had increased in its reading by 0°-76 in 4f years, 
or 0°-172 yearly. 

On November 23d the thermometer was again tested by Mr. 
Baker at the Kew Observatory. The observation was made 
under the same conditions as those near the Albert N'yanza, as 



APPENBIX. 345 

nearly as it was possible to make it.* The result gave the 
thermometer 0°"80 too much at the boiling-point. 

The readings of the thermometer have, therefore, been too 
much ; and hy reducing the readings, it elevates all positions at 
which ohservations were made. 

Table No. 1. — In this Table the error obtained at Kew Ob- 
servatory has been treated lilte that of a chronometer, the error 
being assumed increasing and regular. 

Table Ifo. 2 is to correct the height, computed by Mr. Dun- 
kin, using the quantity taken from Table TSo. 1. 

Table No. 3 is the final result of the observations for height, 
corrected for instrumental error. 

* By immersion in boiling water. 



346 



APPENDIX. 



Table No. 1. 

Table for Increased Reading of Thermometer, using 0°-80 as the Result of 
Observations for its Error. 



Month. 


1861. 


1862. 


1863. 


1864. 


1865. 




o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


January . . . 





0-143 


0^314 


0^487 


0^659 


February 






— 


-157 


¦328 


¦501 


•673 


March . 






0-000 


•172 


¦344 


¦516 


•688 


April 






¦014 


•186 


¦358 


¦530 


•702 


May . . 






¦028 


•200 


•372 


•544 


•716 


June . . 






¦C43 


•214 


•387 


•559 


•730 


July. . 






¦057 


¦228 


•401 


•673 


¦744 


August . 






•071 


¦243 


•415 


•587 


¦758 


September 






•086 


¦257 


•430 


•602 


772 


October . 






•100 


¦271 


•444 


•616 


¦786 


November 






•114 


¦285 


•458 


¦630 


0^800 


December 






0^129 


0^300 


0^47 3 


0^645 






Table No. 2. 

At the elevation of 3,500 feet, 1° equals about 520 feet, from which the 
following — 



o 


Feet. 





Feet. 


O 


Feet. 


1-0 . . 


. 520 


•7 . 


. 364 


¦3 


. 156 


¦9 . 


. 468 


•6 . 


. 312 


•25 . . 


. 130 


•8 . . 


. 416 


•5 . 


. 260 


•2 . . 


. 104 


¦75 . . 


. 390 


•4 . 


. 208 


•1 . . 


. 52 



APPENDIX. 



347 































¦g 




;i^ 


+a <© 


^ CO US !>. 


>* 


CD 


CO 


¦^ 


T-H 


ff-1 


en 




vn 












t- <© t^ t* 


CD 


OJ 


»o 


*o 


eri 


iin 


m 














1=1 (M 


CO Ol CO oc 


CJO 


OS 


















1 




« 










'^ 


-* 


-* 


^ 


cq 


CO 


j-H 


& S d 


¦^ S^ 


'^ CO "O CO 


ffl> 


Ol 


o 


o 














1 




6'" 








lO 






«r-« 












4i 
1 








(M 


G^^ 


(M 


(N 


<M 


CM 


(M 


CM 


M 


o 

o 


1 


¦*^ ^ 


O O Ol OS 


»« 


f^ 


CO 


-cti 


CO 


t-i 


r-- 


on 


m 


CD 


o 






CO 1-. 1— 1 .— 




CO 


Oi 


Oi 


05 


ns 




¦^ 




CO 






s « 




CO 


J-^ 


1-^ 


r-- 


i^ 


CM 




¦^ 


m 


<D 


o 






CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


^ 


'^ 


CM 


G^ 


i-H 


£ 


si 


^ CO 


ITS CO CO (M 


o 


t^ 


00 


CO 


»o 


-!t1 


»o 


on 


CO 


(M 


•S 








<c ^ -* c< 


o 


CO 


o 


fO 


r!i 


vn 


Oft 


on 


¦^ 


Ol 










CO CO ^ci ir: 


-* 


CO 


X-- 


r^ 


fO 


CM 


f-) 


CO 


nn 


iCt 






B 




CO CO cq CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 




'^ 


CM 


(M 




15 






CO Vi (M <M 


"^ 


<M 


¦^ 


-r+H 


(M 






-^ 


¦-+< 




« 




!>. !>. CO CC 




















































f-i >^ 


























v'- 


bo 




o ici lo oc 


!¦-. 




















s^l 


Beadi 

of 

Therm 

mete 

B. P 


O CO 


CO « I>- iC- 


\a> 


W5 


»o 


iO 


IC 


^ 


-* 


t^ 


1^ 


OS 


IS 


o 


o o o o 


o 


o 


<r> 


o 


O 


O 


o 


O 


O 


o 


{^3 








(N 






CM 










o 




i^ 


T-" C>1 i-H ^ 




CO 


ra 


CO 


o 


'+< 


- 


o 


O 


CD 


^1 


¦s 


-S 


IQ 


CO CO i-l 




<N 






<N 


CM 


lO 


lO 


lO 




o 


&0 


























>£ 


m 


S 




(M CM CM (M 


fM 


01 


(M 


<M 


<M 


^ 




o 


I-H 


i-H 


:-8 


f? 


a 


° <MD 


CO CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 




CO 




CO 








a 






















































^ 






rS 


;^' 


r, », ^ 


- 


" 


" 


" 


'¦ 


" 


" 


" 


*¦ 


" 






S 






on 




C-) 


CO 


CO 


c.-? 


IC 


^ 


CO 








1 


CO 

o 'th 


O CO T-l 
-* CO CO cc 


<M 


<M 


)— 1 

CM 


t-H 


r-i 


T-H 


t-H 


I-H 


I-H 
IM 


¦^ 


II 












;r- 
















fii 














































tt 










i:S 




































. 




^ 




S 












^¦^ 








c. 




o 




i4 


-11 


ie 








'^ o 
















O 


1 




iS 




'^^ 








u 








1=1 








o 




^ ffl 












i=l 


























w 

3 
1 

c: 


















E 
¦s 

to 


'J 
1 




CD 
O 

OO 

'cd 


o 


> 

o 

1 


1 

CD 

1 

•a 


o 

1 

O 


.S 

1 


-p 


Pi 

1 

i:=i 


4- 
O 


la 




i 


O ^ -=1^ cc 






„ 


« 




-<J 


-d 


f) 


Tj 






^ 


O 


1^ 










02 


o 






CO 
CD 
OQ 




: : 


, 


; 


: 


; 


r 


; 


:: 


: 


CO 
CO 
rH 


¦S3 




T-l 




















^ 


•i s 


1 


CO 


ccT cm" 04" iir; 


C<1 


(M 


1M 

CO 


CO 


I— < 

(M 


OS 


i-H 


I-H 




C^ 








S-4 


; :: 


p 


:; 


- 






; 


; 







































INDEX. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Abbai, a little motherless slave 
adopted ty Mrs. Baker, il. 255, 
256 ; Ilia precocity and good 
qualities, 266 ; a pet favourite, 
258. 

Abou Hamed, town of, i. 4. 

Aboukooka, the establishment of a 
French trader, i. 73 ; misery of 
the land, 73, 74. 

Abyssinia, rivers and affluents of, i. 
6, 7 ; the rainy season of, 9 ; 
violence of the rains, 9 ; they 
supply the mountain streams that 
feed the affluents of the Nile, ii. 
292. 

Achmet, an Egyptian servant, ii. 
330. 

Adda, a chief of Latooka, i. 130, 

226 ; his infamous proposal to 
plunder one of his own villages, 

227 ; acts as guide, 247. 
Adda's village, i. 338. 

Africa, commerce with the interior, 
i. 362 ; manners and customs of, 
passim (see Central Africa) ; 
farewell to, ii. 339. 

Akkara, cavaliy of the, i. 212. 

Albert N'yanza, Expedition to dis- 
cover the Lake as the source of 
the Nile, i. 1 et seq. ; first clue to 
the Lake, 328 ; — the start for, ii. 
70 ; its discovery, 89 ; the 
author's feelings on the occasion, 
ib. ; so named in honour of the 
late Prince Consort of England, 
90 ; this and the Victoria Lake the 
two great sources of the Nile, 



ii. ; the first draught from the 
waters, 91 ; fishing of, ii. ; the 
Lake declared to be the sea, 92 ; 
salt-pits at, ib. ; the surrounding 
scenery, 94 ; geogiuphy of the 
Lake, 95 ; countries bordering on 
the, 96 ; its apparently boundless 
extent, ib. ; the great basin of 
the Nile, 97 ; its numerous afflu- 
ents, 99 ; voyage upon the, 103, 
104 ; its difficulties, 107, 108 ; 
storm on the, 110, 113 ; croco- 
diles and elephants in the Lake, 
114, 115 ; inhospitality of the 
natives, 117 ; change in its cha- 
racter, 119, 120 ; fish and fishing 
of the, 123, 124; exit of the 
Nile from the, 125 ; the canoe 
voyage terminates, 133 ; the ex- 
pedition bids adieu to it, 137 ; river 
level, 144, 145, 343 ; mountains 
running from to the north, 244 ; 
the great basin of the Nile, and 
the recipient of affluents south of 
the equator, 287, 288 ; the direct 
channel of the Nile, which re- 
ceives the waters of the Victoria 
Lake, 288, 289 ; the second 
source, but the entire reservoir of 
the Nile waters, 321 ;— 2,488 feet 
above the sea level, 343. 

Aliab tribe, i. 78. 

Altitudes of the Albert Lake and 
the surrounding country, ii. 144, 
145, 343. 

Ambatch wood, 1. 43. 

Angarep, fitted up as a travelling 
convenience, i. 347. 

Angi'ab river, i. ?< 



352 



INDEX. 



Animal kingdom, wonderful varie- 
ties in the, i. 272. 

Antelopes, stalking of, i. 179, 180, 
ii. 259, 309, 310, 311 ; tracks of, 
i. 243 ; destroyed by firing the 
grass, 265 ; the rare and beautiful 
breed, the Maharif, 319 ; of the 
Mehedehet species, ii. 15 ; hunt- 
ing the, 15, 16. 

Arab servants, their duplicity and 
treachery, i. 109, HO. 

Arabic, a knowledge of, necessary in 
Africa, i. 4. 

Arabs, graves of the, i. 54 ; their 
cowardice, 56 ; being siinply 
brown are called white, 3-29 ; a 
fight with, for the possession of a 
shady tree, ii. 331, 332 ; are de- 
feated, 333. 

Arohitectare of Latooka, i. 202. 

Asua river, reconnaissance towards 
the, i. 302 ; impassable at certain 
seasons, 369 ; — forms the main 
drain in a deep valley, ii. 119 ; 
arrival at, 272; a mountain tor- 
rent during the rains, ih. ; route 
from, lb. ; suspicious movements 
of the natives, 273 ; attacked in 
the pass, 274, 275 ; an affluent of 
the White NUe, 291 ;— 2,619 feet 
above the sea level, 343. 

Atabbi river, i. 305 ; ii. 19. 

Atada, village of, ii. 36, 37 ; ferry 
of, 39 ; lat. of, at Karuma Falls, 
46 ; extracts from the travelling 
journal, describing the delay at, 
56—60. 

Atbara river, i. 5, 6 ; its junction 
with the Nile, 6, 7, ii. 292 ; 
perfectly dry for several months 
during the year, i. 8 ; receives the 
entire drainage of Abyssinia, 9. 

Austrian Mission station, i. 75 ; 
melancholy failure of the, 76. 



B. 

Babanoose trees, i. 158. 
Baboons, a large party of, sitting on 
the rocks, i. 318, 



" Baby '' lifle, i. 263. 

Bacheeta, the Unyoro slave, i. 360 ; 
her important communications, 
ib. ; — her equivocal position, ii. 
22 ; secretly instructs the guide 
to lead the expedition to Rionga 
instead of to Kamrasi, 31 ; in- 
terview with, 32, 33 ; difficulties 
of arranging with, as interpreter, 
67 ; her sulkiness, 68 ; recognises 
her old mistress among some 
female captives, 192 ; runs away, 
240 note. 

Bagara Arabs, i. 34 ; the elephant 
hunters of the White Nile, 254, 
255 ; their courage, ii. 251. 

Baggera, a fish of the Nile, ii. 123, 
124. 

Bahr el Gazal, a river of the Nile, 
i. 46 ; lake of, 47 ; its general 
character, 50 ; an affluent of the 
White Nile, ii. 308 ; junction of 
the, 312. 

Bahr Giraffe, a small river of the 
Nile, i. 46 ; ii. 292. 

Baker, Mr. , his adventurous spirit, 
and the dangers to which he was 
everywhere exposed {see Expedi- 
tion, passim) ; his thermome- 
trical observations of stations 
above the mean level of the sea, 
ii. 343 ; his tables of increased 
reading of thermometer, 346. 

Baker, Mrs., her anxieties and dif- 
ficulties, i. 124 ; the danger3 to 
which she was frecLuently ex- 
posed {see Expedition, pcissm)-, 
struck with coup de soleil, ii. 80 ; 
her dreadful situation, 82 et seq. ; 
her life despaired of, 84 ; her unex- 
pected recovery, 85 ; the devoted 
companion of her husband's pil- 
grimage, 338 ; her happy return, 
ib. ; (see Expedition). 

Ban tribe, or Baris, i. 85 ; a hostile 
race, 86, 87 ; their frequent de- 
feats and punishment, ib. ; their 
language, 99 ; engaged as inter- 
preters, 125, 229 ; a chiefs advice 
not to proceed, 126 ; their hos- 
tility, 127, 128 ; the best men 



INBBX. 



353 



among Ibrahim's party, ii. 17, 
18 ; a Bari boy bravely rescues 
the Turkish flag, 17 ; attack the 
escort of the Expedition on its 
return, 275 ; shoot poisoned 
arrows, 278. 

Bark cloth at Unyoro, ii. 47. 

Bai'tooma, the great mountain that 
feeds the lakes Luta N'zig^ and 
Victoria N'yanza, ii. 56. 

Beads, highly appreciated at Uny- 
oro, ii. 55 ; those most valued, 
181. 

Bean, with a blossom of delicious 
perfume, i. 359. 

Beauty, strange conception of, in 
Latooka, i. 198. 

Beetles, of immense size, i. 358, 
359. 

Bellaal, his mutinous disposition, i. 
175, 186; his castigation, 187; 
desertion of, 191 ; disabled by the 
punishment inflicted, 210. 

Belignan, arrival at, i. 138 ; moun- 
tain, ii. 278. 

Berber, arrival of the Expedition 
at, i. i ; and on its return, ii. 
329 ; route from, 330. 

Binder, an Austrian trader, i. 66. 

Birds attack and seriously injure the 
donkeys, i. 108. 

Bivouac in the wilderness, i. 324. 

Blacks {see Negeobs). 

Blacksmiths of Latooka, i. 246. 

Blue Nile, i. 2, 5 ; its want of 
water during the diy season, 6, 
ii. 323 note ; its water deli- 
cious, i. 7, 8 ; receives the entire 
drainage of Abyssinia, ¦ 9 ; its 
principal affluents, 10. 

Boar, roasting and eating one in a 
state of decomposition, i. 150, 
151. 

Boatmen, desertion of the, ii. 104, 
105 ; native volunteers, 108, 109. 

Boats, difficulty of obtaining, ii. 
100 ; management of the, 101, 
102, 103 ; nearly swamped, 112.' 

Body-guard of Kamiasi, ii. 241. 

Bohr tribe, i. 77. 

Bokke, of Latooka, and her daugh- 

VOL. II. 



ter, i. 201—204 ; her proposal for 
improving the appearance of Mrs. 
Baker by extracting her teeth, 
205 ; her ornaments, ib. ; her 
courage and prowess, 214. 

Boss Caifer, the, i. 55. 

Bottle gourds used as models by the 
African savages, ii. 47. 

Bread-baking on the march to La- 
tooka, i. 324. 

British flag protects Unyoro, ii. 
182 ; Kamrasi begs for it, 187. 

Buffalo, one shot, i. 52 ; kills Said 
Achmet, 53-; its ferocity, 55. 

Buffaloes, two varieties, i. 55 ; at 
the foot of the mountains of La- 
tooka, 247 ; hunting of, 251 ; 
destroyed by firing the grass, 265. 

Bull of the herd, in the Kytch 
country, i. 71. 

Bullets for heavy game, i. 260 ; 
their shape and size, 261. 

Butter for sale, packed in a plantain 
leaf, ii. 171. 

Butter-nuts of Obbo, i. 291. 



Cairo, the expedition starts from, 

i. 3. 
Camel, poisoned by the herbage, i. 

236 ; habits of the, 237, 238 ; a 

grievous loss, 240 ; death of the 

last one, 365. 
Camels, delays caused by the, i. 

146 ; sickness and death of the, 

325. 
Cannibal tribe of Makkarika, i. 

278 ; slave children stolen and 

eaten by, 278, 279. 
Canoes for lake voyage, ii. 101, 102. 
Cap, so constructed as to form a 

piUow for the night, i. 306. 
Capella, meridian altitude of, ii. 27 ; 

lat. 31. 
CapeUan, Madame Von, and party, 

death of, i. 30 note. 
Cashmere mantle given to king 

Kamrasi, ii. 61. 
Cassave, the messenger, ii. 206. 

A A 



354 



INDEX. 



CastoT-oil plant in Obto, i. 366. 

Cataracts of the Nile, ii. 327—329 ; 
difficulties and dangers of the, ib. 

Cattle, exchanged for ivory, i. 20 ; 
abundant at Latooka, but not to 
be purchased, 222 ; everything 
obtained for, as payment, 332. 

Cattle-stealers, i. 344 ; one shot, 
345 ; his body eaten by vultures, 
346. 

Centbal Afmca, natural resources 
of the vast surface of fertile soil, 
ii. 293 ; reflections on its savage- 
dom, and the possibility of social 
improvement, 293, 294, 295; 
bowed down with the curse of 
slavery, 295 ; the iirst step the 
annihilation of the slave trade, 
ib. ; open to navigation, 297 ; 
ethnology and languages of, 298 ; 
various tribes of, 298, 299; their 
origin wrapt in obscm-ity, 299 ; 
its geological formation primitive, 
300 ; the tribes are ignorant of 
God, ih. : its elevation about 
4,000 feet, 301 ; Sir K. Murchi- 
son's theory of the geological 
system of, 302 et seq_. 

Ceylon, elephants of, i. 259 et seq. 

Chenooda, the vakeel of, instigates 
the men to mutiny, i. " 183 ; a 
wounded man the sole relic of his 
fight with the Latookas, 267. 

Cherrybambi, the grandfather of 
king Kamrasi, ii. 176. 

Children of the camp, ii. 257, 258. 

Choi river, i. 194. 

Chopi, country of, i. 100 ; the 
northern district of Unyoro, ii. 
45 ; revolt and reconquest of, 177. 

Chronometer, given by Speke to 
Kamrasi, ii. 68. 

Cider-making in Kisoona, ii. 170. 

Classes, wonderful variety of, in the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, 
i. 271. 

Climate, unhealthiness of the, ii. 
101. 

Clothes in great demand at Unyoro, 
ii. 62. 

Clothing, when required, would find 



a market in exchange for ivory, i. 
363. 

"Clumsy,'' the vessel, i. 43; her 
worthlessness, and difficulties in 
navigating her, 48, 49, 50, 57. 

Collolollo, a variety of yam, i. 291. 

Commerce with the interior of 
Africa, i. 363 ; difficult, from the 
want of means of transport, 364. 

Commoro, the " Lion " king of La- 
tooka, his interviews with Mr. 
Baker, i. 215, 220, 230 et seq. ; 
averts a threatened attack, 220 ; 
a most clever and common-sense 
savage, 230 ; discussion with, on 
life and death, 231 et seq. ; a ma- 
terialist, 235 ; could not under- 
stand the object of our visiting 
Latooka, 235 ; attacks the rebel- 
lious town of Eayala, 330 ; in a 
disagreeable dilemma, 342. 

Conflagrations in Kamrasi's camp, 
ii. 199. 

Conspiracies of the escort, i. 117, 
139, 187 ; subdued, 188. 

Convolvulus, two varieties of, i. 49. 

Cooking, the various methods of, i. 
334. 

Com, metaphor on the grain of, i. 
234. 

Cotton, varieties of, growing at 
Shooa, ii. 261. 

Coup de soleil, stroke of, ii. 80. 

Cowrie-shells, brought from a place 
called Magungo, i. 326. 

Cows more valued than wives, i. 
207. 

Crested Crane, the, i. 225. 

Crocodiles, great numbers in the 
Albert Lake, ii. 104, 133, 136 ; 
shooting of, 115, 135, 269 ; the 
flesh eaten, 116. 

Cynooephalus, immense specimen 
shot, i. 318 ; his hide cut into 
strips for ornaments, 319. 

D. 

Dancing at Obbo, i. 295. 
Daughters, the saleable value of, i. 
207. 



INDEX. 



355 



Deang, village of, ii. 210 ; no water 
there, ib. ; march from, 211 et 
seq. 

Death, discussion on, with Com- 
moro, i. 232. 

Dehono, his ivory party from the 
south, i. 94 ; atrocities of his 
people, ii. 23 ; his trading party 
threatens Eisoona, 181 ; negotia- 
tions opened with, 183 ; his me- 
nanced invasion of Kamrasi's ter- 
ritory, ib. 

Deserters killed in fight, ii. 3. 

Desertion of the escort, i. 191. 

Dinder river, i. 7. 

Dinka country, i. 39. 

Distillery, working of a, ii. 231. 

Donkeys, attacked and seriously in- 
jured by birds, i. 108 ; advantages 
of, 142 ; their cunning, 147, 148 ; 
delays caused by the, 147 ; their 
disgusting habits, 240 ; become 
carnivorous, 241 ; their sickness 
and death, 325 ; one of them a 
picture of starvation and misery, 
369 ; their braying terrifies the 
natives, ii. 186 ; some brought 
from the east of Shooa, 262. 

Drainage of the File towards the 
Sobat, i. 175. 

Drake's head, i. 224. 

Dromedary, the Hygeen breed, i. 
239 ' 

Duck-shooting, i. 338, 339 ; thieves 
accompanying, 339. 

Ducks at Latooka, i. 223, 224, 225 ; 
their feathers, 225. 

Dust-storm, of extraordinary dark- 
ness, ii. 323. 



E. 

Earthejtwaee, nearly all savages 
have some idea of, ii. 46, 47 ; civi- 
lization denoted by its perfection, 

47- , .. 

Eddrees, the vakeel of the Turks, ii. 
160 ; his excellent behaviour, 179 ; 
as leader of the Turkish party he 
refuses to give up the captives, 



193, 194 ; his quarrel with Eam- 
rasi, 196 ; refused admittance at 
court, 197 ; his negotiation, ib. 

Eesur, an Arab servant, his inso- 
lence and punishment, i. 91, 92, 
93. 

Egypt, causes of the annual inun- 
dation of the Mle, i. 9 ; in favour 
of the slave-trade, ii. 295, 296. 

Egyptian NUe, origin of the, here- 
tofore shrouded in mystery, ii. 
299. 

Egyptian officials, i. 12 ; opposition 
of the, 26. 

Egyptian troops, their arrival at 
Souakim, ii. 337 ; kindness of 
their commanders, ib. 

Elephants, at the foot of the La- 
tooka mountains, i. 243 ; of Cen- 
tral Africa and India, 256, 257 ; 
their distinguishing peculiarities, 
257 ; of Ceylon, 258 et seq. ; 
hunting of, 247 et seq. ; character 
of the country influences their 
habits, 260 ; directions for shoot- 
ing them, 262 ; those of Central 
Africa generally hunted for the 
sake of the flesh, 263 ; death of 
one a grand affair for the natives, 
264 ; the various modes of killing 
them, ib. ; pitfalls for, ib. ; 
caught by firing the grass, 265 ; 
spear-hunting of, 266 ; hunted by 
the Bagara tribes of the White 
Nile, 267 ; the Africans have no 
idea of domesticating tliem, 268 ; 
immense herds of, 304, 305 ; 
fearful contest with one, 304 ;— 
night-watching for, ii. 7, 8 ; one 
of immense size shot, 8 ; its 
measurement, 9 ; cut up by the 
natives, ib. ; on the Albert Lake, 
116, 117. 
Elephant-hunting, i. 247 et seq. ; 
great bull elephant killed, and the 
tusks stolen by the natives, 256 ; 
character of the sport must vary 
according to the character of the 
country, 262 ; by the natives, 
265 ; by the Bagara tribes, ib. ; 
dangers of, 304. 

A a2 



356 



INDEX. 



Ellyria, a powerful tribe among the 
mountams of, i. 132 ; journey to, 
and its dificnlties, 137 et seq. ; 
natives of, brutal in manners, 
157 ; difficulties of the mountain 
pass, ib. ; a race for, 158 ; love- 
liness of the valley, ib. ; aiTival 
at, 165 ; Leggd, the chief of, 165, 
166, 169, 170 ; a rich and power- 
ful country, but no provisions 
procurable at, 169 ; the Expedi- 
tion departs from, ib. 

English, favourable opinion of the, 
entertained by the Africans, ii. 
41. 

Eppigoya, town of, ii. 118 ; sup- 
plies the Expedition with provi- 
sions and rowers for the boats, 
118. 

Escort, quarrels of the, i. 370. 

Espionage, a perfect system of, ii. 
240. 

Ethnology of Central Africa, ii. 
298. 

Exhumation of the dead, i. 198. 

Expedition to discover the Sources 
of the Nile, — starts in March, 
1861, i. 1 ; sets out from Cairo, 
3 ; crosses the Nubian desert, 4 ; 
reaches Berber, ib. ; amves at 
Khartoum, 7 ; reaches the Sou- 
dan, 15 ; the firman granted by 
Said Pasha ignored by the Gover- 
nor-general of the Soudan, 24 ; 
opposed by the Egyptian authori- 
ties, 25 ; extensive preparations 
for saOing, 26 et seq. ; a poll-tax 
demanded and refused, 28 ; de- 
parture of the, 30 ; its progress, 31 
et seq. ; reaches the Bahr el Gazal, 
46 ; enters the Kytch countiy, 67 
arrival at Gondokoro, 82 ; bad 
reception, 83 ; mutiny, 92 ; meet- 
ing of Speke and Grant, 95 ; re 
ceives Speke's instructions, 
mutinous conduct of the escort, 
117 et seq. ; its desperate situa^ 
tion, 122, 123 ; murderous con 
spiracy against the, 127 et seq. 
starts from Gondokoro, 135 ; its 
march towards Ellyria, 139 etseq. 



the party dead beat, 148 ; defi- 
ciency of food, 149 ; arrives at 
Tollogo, 151 ; arrival at Ellyria, 
157 ; and the great difficulties of 
the pass, 159 ; outmarched by the 
Turks, 161 ; hostilities of the 
trading parties to the, 164 ; quits 
Ellyria, 171 ; arrival at Kattaga, 
191 ; at TaiTangoUe, 192 ; arrives 
at Latooka, 189 ; prepares for an 
attack, 218 et seq. ; engaged in 
an elephant hunt, 248 et seq. ; 
daily employment of the, 280 ; 
great reduction of the escort, 
283 ; visits the country of the 
Obbos, 284 et seq. ; reconnais- 
sance to the south of Obbo, 302 
et seq. ; visits Farajoke, 307 ; re- 
turns to Obbo, 309 ; its return to 
Latooka, 325 ; sickness, fever, 
and small-pox, 326 ; death of the 
camels and donkeys, 325, 341 ; 
preparations for leaving Latooka, 
342; the march to Obbo, 346, 
347 ; arrival at Obbo, 350 ; its 
great difficulties and miserable 
situation, 350 ; dependent on the 
traders' hand of robbers, 351 ; 
assailed by rats and white ants, 
352 ; dairy of the, 355—371 ; 
death of all the horses and camels, 
365 ; quarrels among the remain- 
ing escort, and severe attacks of 
fever, 369, 370 ; — endures a miser- 
able existence at Obbo, ii. 1 ; oxen 
trained for transport instead of 
horses, ib. ; Mr. Baker's skill as 
a physician, 2 ; starts for Kam- 
rasi's country in the south, 12 ; 
arrival at Shooa, 18 ; its difficult 
progress from Shooa to Kamrasi's 
territories, 27 et seq. ; deceit of 
the guide, 28 ; desolate state of 
the country, 29 ; arrival at the 
Victoria Nile, 30 ; forbidden to 
enter Kamrasi's country, 34, 85 ; 
difficulties in the way, 39 ; kindly 
received by the natives, and re- 
freshments given, 40 ; extracts 
from the journal describing the 
delay at Atada, 48 — 60 ; the escort 



mBiLi. 



357 



crosses tte river to Kamrasi's 
country, 50 ; marches parallel 
with the Victoria Nile, 52 ; 

freat sickness, 64 ; Mr, and 
Irs. Baker seriously ill, ih. ; 
reaches the capital of Kamrasi, 
57 ; their miserable reception, 
58 ; conference with the king of 
Unyoro, 61, 62, 63 ; and his brutal 
treatment, 72, 73 ; miseries of the 
route from Kamrasi's country, 81 
et seq. ; discovery of the Albert 
N'yanza, 89 ; the first draught 
from its waters, 91 ; geography of 
the lake and the country sur- 
rounding it, 96 et seq. ; discovers 
the Albert N'yanza to be the great 
reservoir of the Mle, 97 et seq. ; 
navigates the great lake, 103 et 
seq. ; in lat. 1° 33' N., 105 ; ar- 
rives at Magungo, 121 ; detention 
at, for want of porters, 146 ; 
treachery of the natives, and in- 
tense suffering from hunger and 
fatigue, 152 et seq. ; in perfect 
despair, 148, 153 ; after being de- 
ceived by Kamrasi, again joins 
Ibrahim's escort, 157 ; Kamrasi 
an impostor, 169 ; introduced to 
to the real king Kamrasi, and 
supplied with provisions in Ki- 
soona, 164, 183 ; become nego- 
tiators with the hostile parties, 
183, 184 ; saved by the British 
flag, 187 ; message sent to Ibra- 
him, 198 ; their march to Fo- 
weera, 216 etseq. ; receives letters 
and papers from England, 228 ; 
Ibrahim's return and generosity, 
229 ; surrounded by plenty and 
in great comfort, 230, 231 ; quits 
the territory of Kamrasi, 243, 
244 ; aiTives at Shooa on the fifth 
day's march from the Victoria 
Nile, 246 ; Mr. Baker's extraor- 
dinary influence over the people, 
255, 256 ; arrival at the Nile on 
returning from Shooa, 266, 267 ; 
reaches the limit of Signer Miani's 
journey from Gondokoro, 267 ; 
enthusiasm on our meeting with 



the Nile, fresh from its great 
parent, the Albert Lake, 268 ; 
attacked in the pass of the Asua 
Kiver by the Bai-is, 273, 274 ; ar- 
rival at Gondokoro, 280 ; disap- 
pointment at not iinding boats, 
letters, or supplies, 281 ; given 
up as dead or lost, ib. ; melan- 
choly reflections, 282 ; departure 
from Gondokoro, and farewell to 
Ibrahim, 287 ; voyage down the 
Nile from Gondokoro to Khar- 
toum, 287 et seq, ; visited by 
plague, 316 ; arrival at Khar- 
toum, 320 ; given up for lost, 
322; departure from Khartoum 
327 ; arrival at Berber, and route 
from, 327 ; the Eed Sea route 
to Egypt, 330 ; a fight with the 
Arabs of the desert, 331-333; 
arrival at Souakim, 336 ; meets 
with English comforts at Suez, 
337 ; arrival at Cairo, 338 ; fare- 
well to Africa, 339 ; the royal 
Victoria Medal awarded, 339 ; 
heights of stations above the sea- 
level, 343 ; thermometer used, 
344. 



Fadeela, night visit of, i. 128, 129 ; 
death of, ii. 57. 

Faloro, outpost of, i. 100 ; the sta- 
tion of Debono, 309 ; Turkish 
station at, ii. 23 ; chief of, resists 
the Turkish exactions, 250. 

Farajoke, ceremony of welcome at, 
i. 307 ; elevated country at, 308 ; 
its defences, ib. ; hospitality of 
the chief, ib. ; arrival at one of 
the villages of, ii. 12 ; favoui-able 
aspect of, ib. 

Fatiko, village of, ii. 25 ; its friendly 
inhabitants, 25, 26. 

Feathers specially intended for or- 
namenting the human head, i. 225. 

Female slaves, capture of, 358; iU- 
usage of, ib. ; brutality shown to, 
ii. 191 ; their comeliness, ib. 



358 



INDHX. 



Fever, vapour-batli for, ii. 173 ; at- 
tacks of, i. 370 ; general prevalence 
of, ii. 63, 100. 

Fighting bracelets of Latooka, i. 
200. 

Firing tbe grass to catcli the large 
game, i. 265. 

"Filfil," a fast horse, i. 180, 181 ; 
unseats his rider, on the charge of 
an elephant, and runs away, 304 ; 
his loss a severe hlow, 309 ; his 
recovery, 313 ; a good horse for 
speed, but useless for the gun, 
321, 322. 

Fish, a curious one, i. 38, 39. 

Fish-eagle, the thief of duck-shoot- 
ing, i. 338, 339. 

Fishes, wonderful varieties of, i. 
272. 

Fishing in the Albert N'yanza, ii. 
91, 92 ; at Magungo, 122—1^4. 

Fish-spearing in the marshes, i. 66, 
67. 

Flies, nuisance of, i. 363. 

Flour, method of purchasing it, i. 
357. 

Forced marches, i. 143, 144. 

Foweera, camp at, ii. 208, 209 ; 
march to, 214 et seq. ; difBculties 
of the route, 216 ; the country 
improves, 217 ; capture of a na- 
tive, 218 ; approach to, at the 
bend of the Tictoria Nile, 220 ; 
arrival at, 221 ; had been attacked 
by the M'was, 222 ; deserted by 
by Kallo^, ib. ; threatened by the 
M'was, ib. ; the Expedition left 
in possession of, ib. ; the inhabi- 
tants butchered, 233, 234. 

Fowooka at war with Kamrasi, ii. 
140, 141 ; threatens Kisoona with 
invasion, 178 ; his retreat and 
quarrel with Mahommed, 188 ; 
entirely routed by the Turkish 
party, 191. 

Front teeth extracted from the wo- 
men of Latooka, i. 205. 

Fruits of Obbo, i. 291. 

Fugitive mutineer, punishment of a, 
i. 189, 190. 

Funeral dance, i. 228. 



G. 

Gaddum Hee, 356 ; her contests 
with Saat, ib. 

Gallas, tribe of the, i. 194, 195. 

Game, abundance of, i. 223 et seq., 
323 ; rifles and bullets for the 
heavy game, 261. 

Garra, dye of the fruit, i. 35. 

Gamier, M. deputed to inquire into 
the slave trade, ii. 325. 

Gebel el Assul mountain, ii. 278, 
279. 

Gebel Kookoo, its level, ii. 143 ; 
the precipitous mountain of, 269. 

Gebel Lafeet, the high peak of, i. 
182, 242, 287. 

Gebel Lardo, arrival at, i. 81. 

Geese at Latooka, i. 224 ; a crim- 
son-headed spur-winged goose, 
225. 

GeUabat, town of, i. 7. 

Geographical Society, award the 
Royal Victoria medal to Mr. 
Baker, ii. 339. 

Geology of Central Africa, ii. 300 ; 
Sir E. I. Murchison's theory of, 
coniirmed by recent discoveries, 
302 et seq. 

Giaifer Pacha, the Egyptian com- 
mander, his kindness and hospi- 
pitality, ii. 337. 

Giraffes, at the foot of the moun- 
tains of Latooka, i. 242, 243 ; 
their native habits, 320 ; no ani- 
mal more difficult to stalk, ib. ; 
hunting of the, 321 ; excitements 
of the chase, 322 ; the hunter de- 
feated, 323. 

Goat, methods of cooking a, i. 334. 

God, a knowledge of, commences 
with the history of man, ii. 29& ; 
connected with mankimi in evpry 
creed, ib. 

Gondokoro, arrival of the Expedi- 
tion at, i. 82 ; lat. and Ion. ib. ; a 
station of the ivory traders, ib. ; 
bad reception at, 83 ; description 
of, 85 ; inhabitants of, 86 ; flocks 
and herds, ib. ; the members of 
the expedition looked upon as 



INDIX. 



359 



spies, 89 ; a perfect hell for tlie 
slave trade, 89, 90 ; ai-rival of 
Captains Grant and Speke at, 94 ; 
their departure from, 104 ; Mr. 
Baker the first En!;lishman who 
had reached it, 103 ; departure 
from, 135 ; the first night's march, 
136 ; — return towards, ii. 265 et 
seq. ; approach to, 279 ; cheering 
exultations on perceiving it, 280 ; 
disappointment at not finding 
boats, letters, or supplies, 281 ; 
melancholy news from Khartoum, 
283 ; plague at, 285 ; departure 
from, 286 ; voyage from, 287 ; 
1,636 feet ahove the sea level, 
343. 

Gondokoro river, i. 361. 

Gooho Goolah, one of Speke's de- 
serters, ii. 204. 

Gourd, an excellent species of, in 
Ohbo, i. 366 ; the prime utensil 
of the African savage,,^!. 46, 47 ; 
great varieties of, 47 ; used as 
models for pottery, ib. 

Granaries of Shooa,Eii. 21. 

Grant {see Speke and Geant). 

Graves of the Arabs, i. 54. 

Ground-nuts of Obbo, i. 292. 

Gum Arabic, exported from the 
Soudan, i. 16. 

Gun accident, fatal, i. 107. 

Gunshot, rout caused by the report 
of a, ii. 77. 



H. 

Hair helmets of Latooka, i. 199. 

HaUil el Shami, the agent at Khar- 
toum, ii. 327. 

Hamed, the elephant hunter, i. 255. 

Hamran Arabs, their method of 
hunting the giraffe, i. 320, 321. 

Haruier, Baron, his melancholy fate, 
i. 76. 

Harpoons, of the Albert N'yanza, 
ii. 92. 

Hassaniah, island of, i. 34. 

Headman of Kamrasi kiUed, ii. 238. 

Hegleek trees, i. 182. 



HerrMorlang, chief of the Austrian 
Mission station, i. 76, 76. 

High treason, summary justice for, 
ii. 188. 

Hippopotami, i. 37 ; great numbers 
of, 61 ; one caught, 63 ; angry 
disputes respecting, ib. ; excel- 
lent soup made of, 64 ; numbers 
0^ in the Albert Lake, ii. 104 ; 
charges our canoe, 136. 

Horse's tail highly prized, i. 353. 

Human races, wonderful variety in 
aU classes of the, i. 272 ; exhibit 
certain characters and qualifica- 
tions which adapt them for speci- 
fic localities, 272, 273. 

Human remains, heaps of, in the 
vicinity of every town, i. 197 ; 
causes of, 198. 

Hunting, by the natives, i. 265 ; of 
antelopes, 179. 

Hygeen dromedaiy, i. 180. 



I. 



Ibeahim, commander of the Turk- 
ish traders, i. 161 ; conversation 
with, 162, 163 ; arrangements 
peaceably settled with him, 164 ; 
becomes a friendly ally, 174, 184 ; 
his quarrel with Mahommed Her, 
184 ; his intended attack on the 
mountaineers defeated, 207 ; his 
departure, 212 ; his return from 
Gondokoro, 267 ; begging of his 
people for presents, 280 ; seized 
with a dangerous fever, and cui"ed 
by Mr. Baker, ib. ; quarrels of his 
people with the Latookas, 281 ; 
starts for Obbo, 334 ; determines 
to make a station there, 341 ;— 
influence gained over his men, ii. 
2, 3 ; starts for the Kamrasi 
country, 12 ; arrangements with 
on advancing to Kamrasi's terri- 
tory, 24 ; difficulties of his party, 
37 ; his men cross the river to 
Kamrasi's country, 50, 51 ; forms 
an alliance with Kamrasi, 63 ; de- 



360 



INDEX. 



partsfor the north, 66 ; instructed 
to attack Fowooka, 140 ; his 

. party rejoined, 156, 157 ; mes- 
sage despatched to from Kisoona, 
198 ; Ms arrival from Shooa at 

' Karuma Falls, 227 ; retreat of 
the M'was at his approach, 228 ; 
his presents to Mr. and Mrs. 
Baker, 229 ; assists Kamrasi ia 
invading the Langgo country,230; 
his presents for Kamrasi, 232 ; 
quits his territory, 243 ; his im- 
mense quantities of ivory, 263 ; 
deserted hy his porters, 264 ; bids 
the Expedition farewell oil its de- 
parture from Gondokoro, 286. 

Ibrahimawa, a native of Bornu, and 
sei-vant of Ibrahim, i. 277 ; his 
adventures, 278 ; named "Sin- 
bad the Sailor, " ih. ; an amateur 
botanist, and a useful ally in 
searching for all that was curious, 
316 ; his discovery of yams, ih. ; 
his various reminiscences, 340 ; 
his visit to England, ib. ; — inde- 
fatigable slave-nnnter, ii. 254. 

Insect life, wonderful varieties of, i. 
272. 

Interpreters, difficulty of obtaining, 
i. 222 ; of the Bari country, 229. 

Ivory, the trade of the Nile, i. 17 ; 
exchanged for cattle, 20 ; arrival 
of, for the Turks, ii. 190 ; im- 
mense quantities of, provided by 
Kamrasi, 242. 



J. 

JocTiAN, chief of the Wuehr village, 

i. 60, 61. 
Johann, death of, i.'41. 



K. 

Kafoor river, ii. 57, 75 ; 

of the, 79 ; its difficulties, 80. 
Kaiigiri river empties itself iato the 

Albert Lake, ii. 113. 
Kajoro, king of Malegga, ii. 95. 



Kalloe, a chief of Foweera, ii. 216 ; 
one of his men captured as a spy, 
219 ; arrive at his village, 220 ; 
interview with, 221 ; deserts his 
village, 222 ; all his cattle seized, 
226 ; captured and murdered, 
236 et seq. 
Kamrasi M'Kamma, king of Uny- 
oro, i. 99 ; his country a virgin 
land, and the king a despotic 
ruler, 362 ; the Lake Luta N'zig^ 
in his dominions, ib. ; — departure 
of the expedition for his country, 
ii. 12 ; had been attacked by De- 
bono's people, 23 ; arrival at his 
country, 33 ; difficulties in the 
way of seeing him, 35 ; presents 
intended for, ib. ; excitement of 
his servants, 36, 37 ; the natives' 
dread of him, 36 ; their silence 
to every question, 42, 43 ; delay 
in waiting for reception, 48 ; his 
headman arrives, accompanied by 
Captain Speke's deserters, 49 ; 
delays on the road, 54, 55 ; his 
suspicious nature, 56 ; he sus- 
pects treachery, ib. ; interviews 
with, 60, 62 ; various presents 
given to, 61, 62 ; forms an alliance 
with Ibrahim, 63 ; his grasping 
spirit, 64, 65 ; his brutal propo- 
sal, 73 ; his apologies, 74 ; his 
Satanic escort, 75, 76 ; at war 
with Eionga and Fowooka, 140 ; 
his proposals, 153 ; sends fifty 
men as an escort, who carry Mr. 
Baker and party to his camp, 155 ; 
he seeks alliance, 158 ; his face- 
tious behaviour on meeting the 
EngKsh escort, lb. ; declares his 
real name to be M'Gambi, the 
brother of M'Kamma Kamrasi, 
159 ; treated with contempt, 160 ; 
introduction to the real king of 
Unyoro, 164 ; his reception of 
the party, 165 ; a remarkably 
fine man, 166 ; commences beg- 
ging, ib. ; left in disgust, ib. ; 
offers some presents, 167 ; a re- 
newal of his rapacious demands, 
173 et seq. ; his royal connexions, 



INDEX. 



361 



176, 177 ; his wars with his dif- 
ferent neighbours, 177, 178 ; his 
request for hostile assistance de- 
clined, 178 ; his fear and oowai'd- 
ice when threatened by invasion, 
181, 182 ; sends a deputation to 
the invaders, 182, 183; begs for 
the British flag, 187 ; his begging 
importunities sternly resisted, 
188 ; his enemies defeated and 
annihilated by the aid of the 
Turkish party, 191 ; threatened 
with invasion, 201 ; Ms retreat, 
206 ; begs the assistance of the 
Expedition, which is refused, 222, 
223 ; compelled to give up the 
cattle belonging to the Expedition, 
226, 227 ; relieved by Ibrahim's 
reinforcements, 229 ; invades the 
Langgo countiy, 230 ; variety of 
presents for, brought by Ibra- 
him, »6. ; delighted with whisky, 
231 ; a supreme despot, 240 ; his 
body-guard, 241 ; his last adieu, 
242 ; provides the requisite num- 
ber of porters, ib. ; the Expedi- 
tion quits his territory along with 
the Turks, 244. 

Kanieti river, arilval at the, i. 175, 
285 ; bivouac on the, 286 ; the 
adjoining mountains, 287. 

Karka, the female slave, ii. 319. 

JKaruma, departure for, ii. 32. 

Karuma Falls, ii. 28, 32, 37 ; dif- 
ference of the level between them 
and the Albert Lake, 142, 143 ; ac- 
tual measurement of the fall, 144, 
145 ; 1, 000 feet between them and 
the Albert Lake, 270 ; 3,737 feet 
above the sea level, 343. 

Karche, village of, ii. 78. 

Katchiba, the chief of Obbo, i. 294 ; 
his diplomacy, 298, 314 ; a pre- 
tended magician, ib. ; "always at 
home," 299 ; his numerous wives 
and children, ib. ; portrait of his 
eldest son, 300 ; Ms favourable 
character, 302; his kind atten- 
tions to Mrs. Baker during her 
husband's absence, 310 ; on a jour- 
ney with his Hebe, 312 ; is thrown 



from the back of the horse Tetel, 
313 ; mounts a donkey, ib. ; Ms 
magical ceremonies on parting 
from him, 314 ; his kindness and 
hospitality, 352, 354 ; the losses 
sustained by him from the Turks, 
355 ; Mr. and Mrs. Baker make a 
morning call upon him by ex- 
press desire, 366; his residence, 
ib. ; presents exchanged with him, 
368 ; — ^his pretended rain-making 
powers, ii. 4, 5. 

Katikiro, commander-in-chief of 
Chopi, i. 100. 

Kattaga, town of, i. 191. 

Kayala, town of, attacked by the 
Turks, i. 330, 331 ; the cattle 
carried off, 331 ; courage of the 
women, ib. ; division of the spoil, 
332. 

Keedja, the headman, ii. 40. 

Khartoum, the capital of the Sou- 
dan provinces, i. 4, 5 ; arrival of 
the Expedition at, 11 ; descrip- 
tion of, 11, 12, 93 ; mutiny of 
the escort, from, and the difficul- 
ties of controlling them, 93, 94 ; 
small pay of the consulate, 369 ; 
— melancholy news from, ii. 283 ; 
slave-trade suppressed at, ib. ; 
plague raging at, 284 ; arrival of 
the Expedition on its return, 
320; warmly received at, ib. ; 
letters awaiting the return of the 
Expedition, 322 ; dreadful plague 
in, ib. ; extraordinary dust-storm 
at, 323 ; departure from, 327. 

Khartoumers, vUlanous cut-throats, 
i. 363. 

Kinyoro language, i. 99. 

Kisoona, village of, ii. 160, 162, 
167 ; at home in, 168 ; plenty of 
provisions here, ib. ; threatened 
with invasion by Eowooka, 180, 
181 ; threatened by the M'was, 
203 ; untenable, ib. 

Kitangule river, ii. 98. 

Kittara, kingdom of, i. 102. 

Koorshid Aga, i. 58, 60, 62, 65 ; 
Austrian mission-station sold to, 
76 ; a Circassian trader, 94, 120 ; 



362 



INDEX. 



his advice, 120 ; sends a Bari boy 
as interpreter, 123 ; threats of his 
people, 131, 132 ; the miserable 
cut-throats belonging to his 
party, 856 ; a bold - spoken 
robber, 361 ; value of his friend- 
ship, ib. 

Kokreb, arrival at, ii. 334, 335 ; 
adjoining range of mountains, ib. 

Korosko, arrival of the expedition 
at, i. 4. 1 

Koshi, country of, i. 100 ; ii. 96, 
268 ; exit of the Nile from the 
lake of, 96. 

Kytch tribe, chief of the, and his 
daughter, i. 67 ; their starved 
condition, 68, 69 ; a most pitiable 
race of savages, 69, 70 ; their 
peculiar customs, 71. 



L. 

Lafeet, the highest peak of the 
western chain of Africa, i. 188. 

Land above the Albert Lake, 4,117 
feet above the sea level, ii. 343. 

Langgo country, invaded by Kam- 
rasi and Ibrahim, ii. 230. 

Languages of the Bari, the La- 
tooka, and the Madi, i. 297 ; of 
Central Africa, ii. 298, 299. 

Latome, town of, i. 184 ; march 
from, 197. 

Latooka countiy, i. 130 ; prepara- 
tions for leaving, 132, 133 ; 
guides from, 152 ; thieves of, 
178 ; their punishment, ib. ; a 
rebel town of, 189 ; natives of, 
192, 193 ; fine-made savages, ii. ; 
TarrangoM, the chief town of, 
192, 195 ; their cavalry, 194 ; 
the great chief of, 194, 202 ; 
blacksmiths of, 193; origin of 
the tribe, 194, 195 ; scarification 
of the women to improve their 
beauty, 205, 206 ; polygamy the 
general custom, 206 ; the value 
of wives in, 206, 207 ; war-sig- 
nals in, 218 ; and answers to the, 



219 ; warlike preparations against, 
ib. ; the impending attack avert- 
ed, 221 ; cattle or meat not to be 
obtained, 221, 222 ; the language 
of, different from the Bari, 230 ; 
description of, and climate, 242 ; 
herds and game of, 243 ; return 
to, from the Obbo country, 314, 
316, 325 ; despoiled by the 
Turkish traders, 337; the white 
ants a curse upon the country, 
342, 343. 

Latookas, a. fine and warlike race, 
i. 195 ; their wealth in cattle, 
&c., 196 ; their treatment of the 
dead, 197, 198 ; toilette of the 
natives, 198 ; hair helmets of 
the, 198, 199; their fighting 
bracelets, 200 ; their warlike 
weapons and shields, ib. ; the 
women of, 201 ; Bokke, wife of 
the chief, 201, 203 ; ornaments of 
the women, 203, 204 ; their front 
teeth extracted, 205 ; defeat Ma- 
hommed Her, and massacre his 
party, 208, 209 ; their rejoicings, 
211 ; their quarrels with the 
Turks of Ibrahim's party, 281 ; 
their refusal to grant supplies to 
the Expedition, 282 ; their brave 
resistance against the Turks, 
331 ; their cattle carried off, ib. ; 
scarcity of salt among the, 334 ; 
— their ingratitude, ii. 11. 

Legge, chief of the tribe in the 
mountains of EUyria, L 132, 
166, 167 ; his ferocity and avarice, 
167, 168 ; his extortionate de- 
mands and beastly intemperance, 
168 ; his greediness, 169. 

Lepidosireu annecteus, ii. 123. 

Life and death, discussion on, with 
Commoro, i. 231 et seq. 

Lira, a new country, near Shooa, ii. 
247 ; the natives of, ib. ; their 
dress like that of a well-blacked 
barrister in full wig, and nothing 
else, 248 ; mamiers and customs, 
ib. ; at war with their neigh- 
bours, 249 ; portrait of the old 
chief, 261; pequUar head-dress of, 



INDSX. 



363 



262 ; natives of, act as porters to 
the Expedition, 265. 

Loading and unloading the camels 
¦and donkeys, delays of, i. 144, 
145. 

Loggo, the Bari interpreter, i. 229, 
230 ; his notions of the Magungo 
river, 328. 

Lotus harvest of the White NUe, i. 
80. 

Luta N'zige, lake, i. 97 ; its im- 
portant position, 98 ; Bacheeta's 
report respecting, 360 ; import- 
ance of, if proved to he one 
source of the Nile with a navi- 
gahle junction, 362, 363 ; advan- 
tages of, as 3. trading emporium 
for Central Africa, 363 ; — re- 
ported to he larger than the Vic- 
toria N'yanza, ii. 53 ; fed by the 
great mountain Bartooma, ib. 



M. 

M'BAZifi, village of, ii. 78. 

M'CaroU, country of, ii. 96. 

MTiimhiro, the great mountain of, 
Speke, lat. 2° 5' 32", ii. 63. 

M'Gamhi, the pretended Kamrasi, 
who had impersonated the king, 
ii. 159 ; his fright at the threat- 
ened invasion, 207, 208 ; begs the 
assistance of the Expedition, 
222; his great distress, 226, 227. 

M'rooli, Kamrasi's country, ii. 35 ; 
river level of, 144 ; captured, 
201; 4,291 feet ahove the sea 
level, 343. 

M'tese, king of Uganda, ii. 177 ; a 
message received from, 179. 

M'was, their threatened invasion 
of Kisoona, ii. 201, 205, 206; 
camp of the, 216, 217 ; overrun 
the entire country, even to the 
shores of the Albert Lake, 226 ; 
retreat on the approach of Ibrahim 
with reinforcements, 228. 

M'wootan N'zige, the native name 
, of the Lake Sf'zige, ii. 60. 

Madi country, language of the, i. 



297 ; marauding expedition to the, 
354 ; — cattle captured from the, 
ii. 17 ; hostility of the natives, 
126. 

Magic, implicitly believed in by 
savages, i. 301, ii. 201. 

Magungo, cowrie-shells brought 
from, i. 326 ; situated on a large 
lake, 327 ; its probable latitude, 
328 ; could be no other than the 
Lake N'yanza, ib. ; king of, called 
' ' Chenybambi, " ib. ¦ Bacheeta's 
report respecting, 360, 361 ; — the 
Albert Lake at, ii. 98, 99 ; ar- 
rival at the town of, 122 ; visit 
of the king, ib. ; fishing ar- 
rangements of, 122, 123 ; hospi- 
tality of the natives, 125 ; Vic- 
toria Nile at, 127 ; 2° 16' due 
west from Atada, 128 ; departm'e 
from, 130. 

Maharif antelope, i. 319. 

Mahomet pitched from his ox, ii. 
280. 

Mahommed, the vakeel of Andrea 
Debono, i. 108, 190 ; ii. 20 ; ar- 
rangements with him for an 
escort, i. 108 ; his treacherous 
conduct, 109, 110, 116 ;-his mu- 
tinous plot, 117, 118 ; leader of 
an invading party, ii. 184, 185 ; at 
Shooa, 255, 256 ;.his retreat, 189 ; 
his quan-el with Fowooka, ib. 

Mahommed Her, i. 42 ; the arch- 
slaver of the Nile, ib. 184 ; his 
quarrel with Ibrahim, ib. ; de- 
feated by the mountaineers, and 
his party massacred, 208, 209 ; — 
the instigator of mutiny, ii. 325 ; 
arrested and punished, 325, 326. 

Makkarikas, a cannibal tribe, i. 
278 ; their disgusting voracity, 
279, 280. 

Malegga, great kingdom of, ii. 95 ; 
natives of 130. 

Manis, the great scaled ant-eater, ii. 
10. 

Marauding expedition, i. 354. 

March, order of, among the traders, 
i. 172, 173. 

Marsh land, varies in width, i. 57. 



464 



INDEX. 



Marshes, mosquitoes of the, i. 65 ; 
miseries of the, 72. 

Matta Goomi, a chief, meets the 
expedition, ,ii. 53. 

Meat, difficulty of obtaining at La- 
tooka, i. 225. 

Medicines, successfully applied, 
ii. 2. 

Meheddhet antelopes, ii. 15 ; stalk- 
ing the, 15, 16. 

Men and beasts in a bad temper, i. 
73. 

Miani, Signer, the limit of his 
journey from Gondokoro, ii. 266, 
267. 

Milk, supplied with abundance of, 
in Eisooua, ii. 168 ; profusely 
used to fatten the wives of king 
Kamrasi, 169. 

Mimosa forests, i. 35, 36. 

Moir, province of, ii. 278. 

Molotes, agricultural implements of 
Latooka, i. 246. 

Monkey Wallady, its mischievous 
tricks, i. 149 ; its amusing gri- 
maces, 155, 156. 

Moomtazze Bey, governor of Soua- 
kim, ii. 336. 

Moorhaka, for grinding corn, i. 62. 

Moosa Pasha, Governor-general of 
the Soudan, i. 12 ; his despotism, 
13 ; ignores the iirman of the 
Expedition, 24 ; demands a poU- 
tax, 28. 

Morass, difficulties of passing 
through a, ii. 78. 

Mosquitoes of the marshes, i. 65. 

Mountains, curious phenomenon in 
the, i. 338 ; extending from Suez 
parallel with the KedSea, ii. 334. 

Mountains of the Moon, nothing 
known of them to the westward 
of Euanda, i. 102. 

Mouse, the last horse of the Expe- 
dition, death of, i. 353 ; his tail 
highly prized by the natives, ib. 

Moy of Latooka, and his ladies, i. 
203—206; Mr. Baker's interview 
with, on the ill-treatment of the 
women, 216. 

Murchison, Sir R. I. his theoiy of 



the geology of Central Africa 
confirmed by recent discoveries, 
ii. 302. 

Murchison Falls, connected with 
the Victoria Nile, ii. 135 ; the 
greatest waterfall of the Nile, 
ib. ; so called in honour of the 
President of the Royal Geogra^ 
phical Society, ift. 

Murie, Dr. I 107. 

Mutineers destroyed in a, mountain 
attack, i. 210. 

Mutiny of the Khartoum escort, i. 
91, 92, 117, 118, 119, 178, 185, 
186, 187 ; all the plans of the 
Expedition thwarted thereby, 
366. 

N. 

Native: curiosity, ii. 44. 

Native tit-bits, i. 149, 150. 

Native witches, ii. 199, 200. 

Natives fishing, i. 51, 52. 

Natron, quantities of, found, i. 62.. 

Natural religious instinct, the world' 
always actuated by, ii. 299. 

Navigation, difficulties of, up the 
Nile, i. 48, 49 ; Central Africa 
opened to, ii. 297. 

Necklaces, superb ones intended for 
Kamrasi, ii. 36. 

Negro, a curious anomaly, i. 269 ; a 
creature of impulse, ib. ; absurd 
to condemn him in toto, as it is 
preposterous to compare his in- 
tellectual capacity with that of 
the white mau, 270 ; cunning and 
a liar by nature, 271 ; in no in- 
stance has he evinced other than 
a retrogression when once freed 
from restraint, 273 ; why he was 
first introduced into our own 
colonies, and to America, 275 ; 
in a state of slavery compelled to 
work, ib. ; when freed he refuses 
to work, ib. ; for an example of 
the results, look to St. Domingo, 
ib. ; his first act when emanci- 
pated is to procure a slave for 
himself, 276. 



INDBX. 



365 



Negro allies in the Soudan, i. 20. 

Negro women, cruel treatment of 
the, i. 128, 129. 

Negroes, their poverty and disgust- 
ing hahits, i. 52 ; their misery, 
66 ; the women daily quarrelling 
and lighting, 73 ; (see Savages). 

New Year's Day, i. 42. 

Night retreat, ii. 215. 

Nile, Expedition to discover its 
sources, i. 1 et seq. ; difficulties of 
the attempt, 1, 2 ; failure of all 
previous expeditions, and the 
causes thereof, 2 ; Bruce's disco- 
veries, ih. ; start from Cairo, 3 ; 
intended route, 5 ; causes of its 
inundations, 8, 10 ; progress of 
the Expedition along the, 31 et 
seq. ; character of the river, 34 ; 
the hanks inhabited hy Arahs, 
35 ; the Negro country, 39 ; 
course of the, 40 ; difficulties of 
navigation, 48 ; its marshes, 50 ; 
its endless windings near Aboi- 
kooka, 73 ; arrival of Speke and 
Grant at Gondokoro, 95 ; their 
discoveries, 97 ; tortuous difficul- 
ties of its source, ih. ; another 
lake reported to exist — ^the Luta 
N'zige, 97, 98 ; flows out of the 
Victoria Lake, 98, 99 ; drainage 
of the, towards the Sobat, 176 ; 
the scarabseus supposed to be the 
harbinger of the inundation, 359 ; 
— exit of, from the lake at Koshi, 
ii. 96 ; the Lake Albert N'yanza 
discovered to be the great reser- 
voir of the, 97 ; the various 
sources of the, ib.; the entire 
system exhibits a uniform drain- 
age from S.E. to N.W., 99 ; its 
exit from the Albert Lake, 125 ; 
examination of its various geo- 
gi-aphical aspects, 128 e< seq. ; its 
its junction with the Un-y-Ame, 
266 ; the Expedition again ar- 
rives at, 268 ; its width on en- 
tering the valley at Gebel Koo- 
koo, 270 ; now cleared of 
mystery, and resolved into com- 
parative simplicity, 287, 288 ; 



the actual basin included between 
lat. 3° S. and 18° N. and long. 
22° and 39° E., 288 ; issues from 
the Albert Lake the entire Nile, 
but prior to its birth from that 
lake not the entire NUe, 288 ; the 
Victoria is the first source, but 
from the Albert the river issues 
at once as the great White Nile, 
289 ; course pursued by Speke 
and Grant from lat. 3° S. to 3° 
32' N., 289 ; the geographical 
question of its sources fully ex- 
plained, 290 ; sources of, as de- 
scribed by Ptolemy; ib. ; rain- 
falls of the, 290, 291 ; voyage 
along the, from Khartoum to 
Berber, 327 et seq. ; catai'acts of 
the, 327, 329 ; sources of the 
{see ViOTOEiA N'yanza and 
Albert N'yanza and "White 
Nile). 

Nile dam, ii. 312 ; its obstruction 
and difficulties, 312, 313, 314 ; 
passage cut through, 314, 315. 

Niles, junction of the two, i. 31. 

Nogara, the great war-drum, 
sounding of the, i. 217 ; answer 
to the, 218. 

Nubian Desert, journey across the, 
i. 4 ; its difficulties, ib. 

Nuehr tribe, i. 52 ; first view of 
them coming to the boats, 58 ; 
their savage appearance and pe- 
cuKar customs, 59, 60 ; portrait 
of their chief, 61. 



0. 

Obbo country, i. 284 ; presents re- 
ceived from the, ib. ; the Expe- 
dition departs for, 285 ; join-ney 
to, 286 ; arrival at, 289 ; the na- 
tives of, 289, 290 ; its produc- 
tions, 290, 291 ; wild fruits of, 
291, head-dresses of the women, 
290 ; pottery and utensils of, 
292 ; lat. and long, of, 293 ; its 
mountainous elevation, ib, ; cli- 
mate and general aspect, ib. ; 



366 



INDEX. 



KatcMba, the chief of, 294 ; fgte 
given at, ih. ; the women of, 295, 
296 ; languages of, 297 ; the na- 
tives superior to the Latookas, ib. ; 
the chief looked upon as a ma- 
gician, 298, 301 ; Mrs. Baker left 
to his care, 302 ; return to, and 
feasting of the Expedition, 309, 
,310 ; departure from, 315 ; visited 
by Ihrahim, 341 ; arrival of the 
Expedition at, 350 ; having heen 
eaten up by the Turkish traders, 
had become a land of starvation, 
ib. ; war-dance at, 354 ; disgusting 
habits of the natives, 358 ; might 
become the clothing frontier of 
the South, 363 ; an excellent 
species of gourd in, 365 ; — for 
months a miserable existence 
there dragged on, ii. 1 ; influence 
gained over the people, 3 et seq ; 
3,480 feet above the sea-level, 
343. 

Omer Bey, governor of the Soudan, 
ii. 326. 

Osman, the cabin boy, i. 32. 

Owine, a chief in alliance with 
Mahommed, ii. 256 ; murdered by 
him, 257. 

Ox, boUing the fat of the, i. 358 ; a 
dead one restored, ii. 87. 

Oxen trained for transport instead 
oiS horses, ii. 1 ; difficulties at- 
tending them, 12 ; all killed by 
the flies, 146. 



Pantoko country, i. 100. 

Papyrus rush, i. 48. 

Parkani, village of, near the great 
lake, ii. 88. 

Patooan, island of, ii. 139, 140 ; 
river level at, 142, 144, 145 ; de- 
tained at, for want of porters, 
146 ; treachery of the natives, 
and intense suffering at, 147 ei 
seq. 

Persian carpet, a present intended 
for Kamrasi, ii. 35. 



Petherick, Mr. and Mrs. i. 103, 

104, 107. 
Pitfall for trapping elephants, i. 

264. 
Plague, at Khartoum and Gondo- 

koro, ii. 284, 285 ; breaks out on 

board the vessel, 315, 316 ; its 

fatal effects in Khartoum, 322 ; 

caused by a horrible slave cargo 

at Khartoum, 324. 
Plantains of Unyoro, ii. 52 ; iu 

great abundance, used as food, 

170 ; fibre of, manufactured, 170, 

171. 
Plums, yellow, found in prodigious 

numbers, i. 172. 
Poisoned arrows, effects of, i. 87, 

88 ; shot by the Baris, ii. 277. 
Pomone, island of, i. 77. 
Porcelain, manufacture of, ii. 46. 
Porters, difficulty of obtaining, ii 

66, 67, 79, 213 ; deserted by the, 

211 ; provided by Kamrasi, 242 ; 

their exacting spirit, 249 ; their 

desertion of Ibrahim at Shooa, 

264 ; Lira natives engaged for the 

Expedition, 265. 
Potato whisky, manufacture of, ii. 

231. 
Pottery of Obbo, i. 292 ; of the 

natives of Unyoro, ii. 46. 
Poultry, scarcity of, in Kisoona, ii. 

199. 
Prairies, boundless extent of, ii. 27. 
Pre-Adamite creation, speculations 

on, as connected with Africa, ii. 

299, 300. 
Presents, the continued craving for, 

by the different chiefs, ii. 69 ; 

demanded by king' Kamrasi, 174 

tt seq. 
Provisions at Latooka, i. 222, 223 ; 

difficulty of procuring them, 357. 
Puff adder, of enormous size, i. 

348 ; its dangerous venom, ib. ; 

killed and skumed, 349. 



Qtjanda, language ofj iL 22. 



INDEX. 



367 



E. 

Eabonsa, the Guide, ii. 88 ; deser- 
tion of, 137. 
Eahad river, i. 7, 10. 
Eain, a storm of, i. 243, 244 ; its 

effects, 245, 246. 
Eainfalls of tlie Nile, near the 

Equator, ii. 290. 
Eainmaking, pretensions to, ii. 4, 

5, 6. 
Eats, swarms of, i. 352, 355. 
Eazzias in the neighbourhood of 

Shooa, ii. 249. 
Eed Sea, route by the, to Egypt, ii. 

330 et seq. ; welcome view of 

the, 336. 
Eegiaf mountain, ii. 279. 
Eeligion, the natives of Unyoro 

have no idea of, ii. -201. 
Eeligious argument held with Com- 
"¦moro,i. 231 et seq. ; failure of the, 

235. 
Ehiaoceros, a black one, ii. 260. 
Eicham, a black servant, i. 49 ; 

his fidelity, 111 ; his faithful 

services, 120, 122 ; — missing, ii. 

211 ; reported as being killed, 

212 ; his return, 224 ; his singular 

story, 225 ; marriage of, 330 ; 

engaged as servant at Cairo, 
¦ 338. 
Eiding-ox, perfectly recovered from 

his lameness, ii. 246. 
Eifles for heavy game, i. 261. 
Eionga, his attack on Kamrasi, ii. 

23 ; brother of, 30 ; inhospitable 

treatment by his people, 31 ; 

beauty of his country, ib. ; at 

war with Kamrasi, 140 ; escape 

of, 193. 
Eionga's island, 80 feet above the 

Nile, ii. 144, 145 ;— 3,685 feet 

above the sea level, 343. 
Eiver vegetation, i. 35. 
Elvers of Abyssinia, i. 7 ; their 

Robber traders of the Nile, i. 233. 
Eout at the sound of a gunshot, 

ii. 77. 
Eowera, supplied by the king of 



Eppigoya, ii. 117, 118; curious 
custom of the, 119. 
Eumanika, king, ii. 95. 



S. 

Saat, the Tokroori boy, i. 85 ; a 
faithful servant, 111 ; his strange 
history, 112, 113 ; his first inti'o- 
duction to Mrs. Baker, 113 ; his 
honesty and fidelity, 115, 116 ; 
discovers ti mutinous plot, 117 ; 
his fighting courage, 219 ; be- 
comes scientific, 355, 356 ; his 
quarrels with Gaddum Her, 356 ; 
dies of the plague, ii. 319. 

Saati the vakeel, i. 91. 

Salaam river, i. 7. 

Sali murdered by Kamrasi, ii. 193. 

Sail Achmet killed by a buffalo, 
i. 53. 

Salt, scarcity of, among the La- 
tookas, i. 334 ; its manufactui'e 
and value, ib. 

Salt-pits at Vacovia, ii. 92. 

Sandpiper, seated on the head of a 
hippopotamus, i. 81. 

Satanic escort of Kamrasi, ii. 75, 
76 ; its suspicious character, 79. 

Savages hold to their cows and their 
women, i. 207 ; on a level with 
the bmte, 227 ; all are ungrateful, 
thievish, idle, selfish, and cniel, 
ib. ; can only be ruled by force or 
humbug, 301 ; believe in sorcery, 
302 ; practical magic is all that 
is esteemed by them, ib. ; the 
gourd the model of then- pottery, 
ii. 47. 

Scarabaeus of the Nile, i. 359. 

Schmidt, Johaun, headman of the 
Expedition, i. 27 ; his death, 41. 

Sennaar, i. 7. 

Sesam^, cultivation of, ii. 21. 

Settite river, i. 7, 10. 

Shillook country, i. 39, 43 ; ii. 284. 

Shillook tribe, i. 64. 

Shir tribe, characteristics of the, i. 
79 ; manufacture of baskets and 
mats by the women, 81. 



368 



INDEX. 



Slioggo, 3,770 feet atove the sea 
level, ii. 343. 

Sliooa, arrival at, ii. 18 ; a lovely 
place, ib. ; beauty of the neigh- 
bourhood, 19 ; its elevation, i6. ; 
lat. and long. 20 ; disastrous 
state of, ib. ; ' ' flowing with milk 
and honey,"i&. ; its cultivation and 
excellent granaries, 21 ; departure 
from, 24 ; a messenger sent to, 
from Kisoona, 208 ; journey to, 
from TJnyoro, 244 et seq. ; arrival 
at on the fifth day's march from 
the Victoria Nile, 246 ; com- 
fortable quarters at, ib. ; some 
months' residence at, ib. ; the 
people of, fighting with the 
natives of Fatiko, 248 ; the 
country around desolated by petty 
warfare, 249 ; illness at, 258, 

259 ; shooting and sport at, 259, 

260 ; affecting scene on leaving, 
266 ;— 3,619 feet above the sea 
level, 343. 

Shooa Moru, misery endured at, 
from want of provisions, ii. 148 et 
seq. ; — 2,918 feet above the sea 
level, 343. 

Shooting wild ducks and cranes at 
Latooka, i. 223—225; a t^tel, 
305 ; antelopes, ii. 259, 310, 311. 

Skins of goats, beautifully prepared, 
ii. 51. 

Slave girl killed and eaten by the 
Makkarikas, i. 279. 

Slave-hunters, defeat and massacre 
of, by the savages of Latooka, 
209, 210. 

Slave-markets, their distance, 22. 

Slave-trade of the Soudan, i. 16, 
17; of the White Nile. 18; 
revelations of, 21 ; at Gondoroko, 
88, 89 ; of Africa— wiU England 
ever suppress it ? 357 ;— orders 
received by the Egyptian Govern- 
ment to suppress the, ii. 283 ; 
the slaves returned to their re- 
spective stations, 285 ; the gi'eat 
curse of Central Africa, 294 et 
seq. ; difficulties of suppressing 
it, 296; suggestions for accom- 



plishing the great object, ib. ; 
special inquiry into the, 325. 

Slavery {see Hegeo). 

Slaves, recapture of, ii. 254 ; saved 
by Mr. Baker, ib. ; cruelties to, 
255 ; kindness extended to, by 
Mr. Baker, 256 ; hon'ible cargo 
of, 324 ; cause a plague at Khar- 
toum, ii. 

Small-pox, attacks the escort, i, 
325, 326 ; scourge of the tribes 
of Central Africa, ib. ; prevalence 
of the, 352. 

Sobat river, i. 44, 45 ; its pecu- 
liaiities, 61 ; rises far south, ib. ; 
drainage of the Nile towards the, 
175 ; an affluent of the Nile, 
ii. 292. 

Somerset river, altitude of the, ii. 
67 ; so named by Captain Speke, 
291 ; another name for the Tic- 
toria Nile, ib.; {see Victoria 
Nile). 

Sooli, extensive country of, i. 308. 

Soont trees produce an excellent 
tannin, i 35. 

Sorcerers in Kisoona, ii. 199, 200. 

Sorcery believed in by savages, i. 
302. 

Souakim, arrival at, ii. 336 ; kind 
reception by the Governor, ib. ; 
its advantageous position for com- 
merce, ib. ; arrival of an Egyptian 
steam frigate at, 337. 

Soudan, provinces of the, ii. 11, 
12 ; its miserable government and 
official extortions, 12 et seq. ; 
productions of, 16 ; slave trade 
of the, 17 ; scarcity of money in, 
ib. ; the natives the greatest of 
scoundrels, 351 ; — ten years' resi- 
dence in would spoil an angel, ii. 
11 ; famine and plague in the, 
322. 

Soul, discussion on the, with Com- 
moro, i. 231, et seq. 

Sources of the Nile, observations 
on the, ii. 331 {see Viotoeia 
N'yanza and Albert N'yanza). 

Speke and Grant, their East African 
expedition, i. 1, 2; inquiries for 



INDEX: 



369 



at Gondokoro, 84 ; reports of, 
ib. ; their arrival at Gondokoro, 
and meeting of Baker's Expedi- 
tion from tke north, 94, 95 ; 
their enthusiastic welcome, 96, 
96 ; their discoveries, 97 ; report 
the existence of another lake, 
the Luta N'zige, 97, 98 ; their 
advice and instructions, 98 — 102 ; 
their departure for Khartoum, 
104 ; — intelligence of their jour- 
ney from Lake Victoria, ii. 41 
Mr. Baker pronounced to be 
Speke's brother, 49 ; the lustre 
of their achievements, 289 ; they 
traced the country from Zanzibar 
to the southern extremity of the 
"Victoria N'yanza (lat. 3° S.), 
traced the river to Karama Falls, 
lat. 2° 15' N., and subsequently 
met the Nile in lat. 3° 32' N; 
289 ; credit due to them for 
discovering the most elevated 
source of the Nile in the great 
Victoria N'yanza, 320 ; news of 
Speke's melancholy death, ib. 

Spirit, manufacture of, ii. 231. 

Stalking of antelopes, i. 179, 180 ; 
ii. 259, 310, 311. 

Stations above the mean level of 
the sea, ii. 343. 

Stoims at Latooka, i. 242 ; their 
effects, 243, 244, 245 ; their ex- 
treme violence, 272 ; — on the 
Albert Lake, ii. 111. 

Suez, arrival at, ii 337 ; comforts 
of an English hotel at, ib. 

Sugar-cane mdigenous, ii. 86. 

Suleiman, a powerful choush of 
Ibrahim's party, i. 184, 212 ; his 
preparations for contest, 218. 

Supreme Being, African savages 
have no idea of, ii. 201. 

Swamps, poisonous exhalations of 
the, 1. 36. 

T. 

Taocazy river, i. 5, 6. 
TarrangoU^ the chief town of La- 

VOL. II. 



tooka, i. 192, 194 ; population of, 

195 ; description of the town, 

196 ; deserted by the women and 
children, 215 ; hostile prepara- 
tions in, 217 ; the war-signals of, 
218 ; camp at, 222 ; situation of 
the town, 223 ; storm at, 243, 
244; 2,047 feet ai)ove the sea 

, level, ii. 343. 

"Taxes of the Soudan, L 14, 15. 

Tetel, the old Abyssinian hunter, i. 
249, 250 ; his laziness during an 
elephant hunt, 252, 253 ; dis- 
mounts the Obbo chief, 313. 

Tetels, shooting o^ i. 305, ii. 245 ; 
a fine herd of, ib. 

Thermometer used by Mr. Baker in 
determining heights, ii. 344 ; 
tables of the reading of the, 346, 
347. 

Tobacco of Obbo, i. 292. 

Tollogo, arrival at, i. 151 ; imper- 
tinence of the natives, 152 ; a 
rude inteiTogator at, 153 ; arrival 
of the chief, 154 ; the natives 
brutal in manner, 157. 

'Tombe, the chief of Tollogo, i. 
164. 

Tooth-comb, Kamrasi in love with 
a, ii. 176, 176. 

Tori, king of, ii. 95. 

Trade in a distant country difiicult 
from the want of means of trans- 
port, i 362. 

Traders of the Nile, i. 10 ; their 
infamous character, 19, 20 ; mere 
colonies of robbers, 77 ; atrocities 
of the, 89 ;. their arrival from 
the south, 94, 96 ; excitement 
caused thereby, 96, 96 ; their 
bivouac, 136 ; their hostility to 
the Expedition, 174 ; their order 
of march, ib. ; their rascality, 
217. 

Trading in Kisoona, ii 171, 172; 
tricks attempted, ib. 

Transport animals, death of the, i. 
366. 

Tree, a fight with the Arabs for the 
shade of a, ii. 331. 

BB 



370 



INDEX. 



Tullaboon, crop of, ii. 4, 7 ; trodden 
down by the elephants, 7 ; 
granary of, discovered, 149. 

Tumuli of ashes, i. 78. 

Turkish traders, the Expedition 
outmarched by the, i. 160, 161 ; 
disagreeable dependence on the, 
341 ; their cruelty and brutality, 

346 ; leave Latooka for Obbo, 

347 ; their arrival at Obbo, 350 ; 
hostilities caused by the, 351. 

Turks, their salute, i. 182 ; insult 
and beat the women, 212, 213 ; 
punished by the women, 214 ; 
resistance to the, ib. ; result of 
their misconduct, 215 ; threat- 
ened by the Latookas, 217 ; their 
preparations for defence, 219 ; the 
rattle of their drum in answer to 
the nogara of Latooka, 220 ; 
their behaviour improved, 221 ; 
their arrival in the Latooka 
country, 235 ; their quarrel with 
the Latookas, 281, 282, 283 ; 
their capture of the cattle, and 
division of the spoU, 331, 332 ; 
attack the town of Kayala, 330, 
333 ; repulsed, ib. ; set out for 
Obbo, 334 ; murder a native 
of Kayala, 336 ; disturbances 
caused by their craelties, 337 ; 
Latooka despoUed by the, ib. ; 
— influence gained over the, 
ii. 2, 3 ; their standard bearer 
kiUed, 17 ; their capture of 
slaves, ib. ; rejoin their detach- 
ment, 166 ; large amval of ivory 
for, 190 ; ample stores of provi- 
sions sent to, ib. ; entirely rout 
Fowooka, ib. ; their buUying 
spirit, 196 ; completely in Mr. 
Baker's power, ib. ; their de- 
structive razzias nearShooa, 249 ; 
resisted by the chief of Faloro, 
250 ; and defeated in their at- 
tack, 251 ; their brutalities, 252, 
253 ; their miu'der of a, native, 
254. 

Turtle, real, is mock hippopotamus, 
i. 64. 



IT. 

UoANDA, frontier of, ii. 84. 

Ulcerated legs at Shooa, ii. 259. 

Un-y-ame river, ii. 26 ; its junction 
with the Nile, 266 ; limit of na- 
vigation from the Albert Lake, 
267. 

Unyoro, i. 99 ; the territory of 
Kamrasi, a virgin land, 362 ; — 
difficulties on entering the coun- 
try, ii. 23; freemasonry of, 43; 
difficulty of obtaining provisions, 
43 ; the bark cloth of, 44, 45 ; 
provisions supplied, 45 ; dress of, 
ib. ; the northern district called 
Chopi, ib. ; blacksmiths of, 46 ; 
the nations particularly neat in 
all they do, 51 ; manufactures of, 
62 ; clothes and beads in great 
demand, ib. ; the country thickly 
populated, and extensively culti- 
vated, ib. ; the luggage of the 
Expedition carried gratis, I'J. ; 
hospitalities of, 53 ; agiicultural 
implements of, ib. ; temperature 
of, ib. : filthiness of the native 
dwellings, 55 ; miserable reception 
by the king of, 57, 58 ; the na- 
tives peculiarly clean feeders, 87 ; 
require no remuneration for por- 
terage, ib. ; protected by the Bri- 
tish flag, 184 ; the men pass the 
night in uproarious merriment, 
while the women perfonu the 
labour of the fields, 198 ; journey 
from, to Shooa, 244 et sea. 



V. 

Vacovia, a iishing vOlage on the 
Lake N'yanza, ii. 91 ; salt-pits 
of, 92 ; lat. and long., 100 ; un- 
healthiness of the cUmate, ii. 

Vapour-bath for fever, ii. 173. 

Vegetable kingdom, wonderful va- 
rieties in the, i. 271, 272. 

Victoria and Albert Lakes, the two 
great equatorial reservoirs of the 



INDEX. 



371 



Nile, and the recipients of all 
affluents south of the equator, il. 
288. 

Victoria i^'yanza, the lake whence 
the Nile waters flow, i. 97, 98 ; — 
the Luta N'zig^ reported to be the 
larger one, ii. 63 ; fed by the 
great mountain Bartooma, ib. ; 
one of the great sources of the 
Nile, 90 ; the eastern source, 98 ; 
the Nile stream from it meets the 
Albert Lake at Magungo, 98, 99, 
121 ; gathers all the waters on 
the eastern side, and sheds them 
into the northern extremity of the 
Albert Lake, 288 ; tlius being the 
first source of the Nile , while' from 
the Albert, the river opens at 
once as the Great White Nile, 
89 ; the most elevated source of 
the Nile, 321. 

Victoria NUe, the. Expedition ar- 
rives at the, ii. 30 ; description of 
the, 32 ; passage of the river for- 
bidden, 34, 35 ; the Expedition 
marches parallel with the, 52 ; at 
Magungo, 127 ; voyage up the, 
131 ; connected with the Murchi- 
son Falls, 135. 

Victoria Gold Medal awarded to Mr. 
Baker, ii. 339. 



"W. 

Wakkala, village of, i. 176 ; abun- 
dance of game at, ib. 

Vani, the Bari guide and interpre- 
ter, i. 326 ; his important infor- 
mation, 327, 328. 

War-dance at Obbo, i. 354. 

War.drum of Latooka, i. 217, 218. 

.War-signals, in Latooka, i. 218. 

Wares for sale, crying of, in Kisoona, 
ii. 171. 

Wat Shely, i. 34. _ 

Watches, loss of, 1. 356. 

Water, badness of, throughout the 
White Nile, i. 74 ; want of, 142, 



ii. 210 ; contests for, i. 212, 
213. 

Water-lihes in full bloom, i. 37. 

Water- plants, floating islands of, i. 
37. 

Werdella, Chief of Faloro, resists 
the Turkish exactions, ii. 250 ; 
defeats them in their attack, 261. 

" Wheels within wheels," ii. 22. 

Whisky distillery, ii. 231 ; restores 
Mr. Baker's health, ib. 

Whistles, general use of, i. 315 ; 
supposed effect on the rain, ii. 6 ; 
considered infallible, 7. 

White ant towers, i. 68. 

White ants, a curse upon the country 
of Latooka, i. 342, 343 ; swarms 
of, 352. 

White Nile, disagreeable taste of its 
water, i. 7, 8 ; receives the drain- 
age of Abyssinia, 7 ; its steady 
volume of water, 8, 9 ; traders 
and slave-trade of the, IV, 18 ; its 
course, 47 ; rises far south, 60 ; 
absurd descriptions of the, 57 ; 
badness of the water throughout, 
74 ; lotus harvest of the, 80 ; the 
tribes bordering on the, 195 ; — 
dammed up by a freak of nature, 
and a ditch cut through the ob- 
struction, ii. 284 ; affluents of the, 
291, 292 ; dammed by an extra- 
ordinary obstruction, 312 — 313 ; 
this part of the Nile a boundless 
marsh, 312 ; its sudden disap- 
pearance, 314. 

Wild boar shot, ii. 10. 

Wild duck-shooting, i. 223, 224. 

Witches of Kisoona, ii. 200. 

Wives, the value of, in Latooka, i. 
206, 207. 

Women, bmtality towards the, i. 
173 ; of Latooka, 201 ; insxdted 
and beaten by the Turks, 214 ; 
their resistence, 214 ; desert the 
town of TarrangoUe, 215 ; of 
Obbo, 295, 296 ; their saleable 
price, 333 ; their lives spared in 
war, ib. ; perform the labour of 
the fields, ii. 198, 



3/2 



INDEX. 



Yams, discovery of, i. 316 ; their 

purgative effects, 39 ; some of the 

tribe are poisonous, ih. 
Yaseen, the elephant hunter, i. 251, 

25i, 255 ; meeting with, ii. 166 ; 

dies of the plague, 316. 
Ye River, an aiHuent of the White 

Mle, ii. 291. 



Zambesi, affluent of the, ii. 303, 

304. 
Zanzibar, expedition from, i. 1. 
Zareeba, station of, i. 66. 
Z^neb, the wife of Eicham, her 
warlike spirit, ii. 332. 



THE END. 



C'LAV, SON, AND TAYLOR, FitlXTERB, BREAD STREET HILL. 



