About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/ismailianarrativ00bake/page/n7/mode/2up

--------------------------------------


ISMAILIA 



A NARRATIVE OF THE EXPEDITION 
TO CENTRAL AFRICA FOR 
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE SLAVE TRADE 


ORGANIZED BY
ISMAIL,
KHEDIVE OF EGYPT.

BY

SIR SAMUEL W. BAKER, PACHA, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.G.S, 



Major-General of the Ottoman Empire, Member of the Orders of the Osmanié 
and the Medjidié, late Governor-General of the Equatorial Nile Basin, Gold 
Medallist of the Royal Geogrpahical Society, Grande Médaille d'Or de la 
Société de Géographie de Paris, Honorary Member of the Geographical 
Societies of Paris, Berlin, Italy, and America, Author of "The Albert 
N'yanza Great Basin of the Nile," "The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia," 
'Eight Years' Wanderings in Ceylon," " The Rifle and Hound in Ceylon," 
etc. etc 



With Maps, Portraits, and upwards of Fifty Full-page Illustrations 
by Zwecker and Durand.





SECOND EDITION. 


London.

MACMILLAN AND CO. 



1879. 



[Rights of Translation and of Reproduction are reserved.] 



Bugay

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS 



CONTENTS. 



CHAP. PAGE 

I. INTRODUCTORY ... ... ... ... ... 1 

II. ENaLISH PARTY ... ... ... ... ••• ¦ ^ 

III. THE RETREAT ... ... ... ... ... 33 

IV. THE OAMP AT TEWFIKEEYAH ... ... .. 49 

V. EXPLORATION OF THE OLD WHITE NILE ... ... 68 

VI. THE START ... ... ... ... ... 82 

VII. ARRIVAL AT GONDOKORO ... ... ... ... 106 

VIII. OFFICIAL ANNEXATION ... ... ... ... 120 

IX. NEW ENEMIES ... ... ... ... ... 140 

X. DESTRUCTION OP THE SHIR DETACHMENT ... ... 152 

XI. SPIRIT OF DISAFFECTION ... ... ... ... 1/0 

XII. VESSELS RETURN TO KHARTOUM ... ... ... 192 

XIII. MORAL RESULTS OF THE HUNT ... ... ... 201 

XIV. THE ADVANCE SOUTH ... ... ... ... 217 

XV. THE ADVANCE TO LOBOR^ ... ... ... ... 231 



Yi CONTENTS. 

CHAP. PAGH 

XVr. ARRIVAL AT FATIKO ... ... ... ... 257 

XVII. THE MARCH TO UNYORO ... ... ... ... '280 

XVIII. MARCH TO MASIXDI ... ... ... ... 304 

XIX. RESTORATION OF THE LIBERATED SLAVES ... .. 319 

XX. ESTABLISH COMMERCE ... ... ... ... 340 

XXI. TREACHERY ... ... ... ... ... 3.")S 

XXII. THE MARCH TO RIOXGA ... ... ... ... 37.9 

XXni. BUILD A STOCKADE AT FOWEERA ... ... ... 3.97 

XXIV. NO MEDICAL MEN ... ... ... ... ... 41G 

XXV. I SEND TO GONDOKORO FOR REINFORCEMENTS ... 4;>i) 

XXVI. ARRIVAL OF m'tESES ENVOYS ... ... , . 445 

XXVII. CONCLUSION ... ... ... ... 4(;,5 

APPEDIX ... ... ... ... 4—5 

i^^'i>2X ... 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Tofoct 

M/J? OF ROUTE ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 

LIEUTENANT JULIAN ALLEYNE BAKEil, ll.N. ... ... ... 6 

Ma. EDWIN IIIGOINBOTHAM ... ... ... ... G 

THE CAMEL TRANSPORT OF STEAMERS AND MACUINEKY ... L'J 

" THE FORTY THIEVES," COMMANDED BY LIEUT. -COL. ABD-EL-KADER V) 

LIEUT.-COLONEL ABD-EL-KADER ... ... ... ... l.> 

DEPARTURE FROM KHARTOUM ... ... ... ... L') 

CROCODILE MOBBED IN THE SUDD ... ... ... ... 2S 

THE "dAMALIS SENEUALENSIS " — STALKING THE SENT II Y ... ;)(> 

HAULING THE NO. 10 STEAMER THROUGH THE CANALS IN TilK 

MIDST OF THE VEGETABLE OBSTRUCTIONS ... ... 3S 

HIPPOPOTAMUS KILLS THE BLIND SHEIK IN THE SHlLL.iM»K CuirNTRY 5S 

LIBERATION OF SLAVES AFTER THE CAPTURE OF THE SLAVE BOATS 6;> 

MAP OF ALBERT n'yANZA ... ... ... ... ... iV} 

ARRIVAL .VT THE STOPPAGE — THE BALENICEPS REX ... ... 91 



VUl 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



A HIPPOPOTAMUS ATTACKS THE BOATS DURING THE NiaHT 

FIG. L — PACKET OP PLAITED ROPE OF UGANDA ... ...^ 

„ 2. — SANDAL OF EAW HIDE AS MADE IN UNYORO ... 

„ 3. — SKULL OF THE BALENICEPS REX 

„ 4. — THE IRON MOLOTE, OR SPADE, OF THE BARI AND MADI 
TRIBES ... 



To face 
pagt 

102 



„ 5. — PIPE BOWL OF THE BARI TRIBE 



OFFICIAL ANNEXATION OF GONDOKORO — SALUTING THE FLAG 



115 



THE BELINIAN BARIS ATTACK AND DRIVE OFF THE CATTLE 
FIG. 1. — ARROTV-HEADS OF THE BARI TRIBE ... ... \ 

2. — ELEPHANT SPEARS OF THE UNYORO AND UMIRO 
„ 3. — UNYORO KNIFE 

„ 4. — SHARP-POINTED CLUB OF IRON-WOOD USED BY THE SHIR 
TRIBE 

LANDING A CROCODILE AT GONDOKORO 

GENERAL NIGHT ATTACK ON THE STATION AT GONrOKORO 
A.SSAULT UPON THE STOCXADES AT BELINIAN 
KLEPHANTS IN A DIFFICULTY 

A BULL ELEPHANT SHAKES DOWN THE FRUIT 
PECULIAR TABLE BOCK AT REGIAF 



121 

127 



132 



142 
149 

1:,>9 
210 
2-24 
238 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. ix 

TofdLce 

page 

ON THE MARCH THROUaH THE BARI COUNTRY — ENTERING MOOG]^ 240 

NIGHT ATTACK UPON ABDULLAH'S DETACHMENT ; THE BARIS 

CAPTURE THE GUN ... ... ... ... ... 245 

VIEW OF THE NAVIGABLE NILE ABOVE THE LAST CATARACTS AT 

AFUDDO ... ... ... ... ... ... 253 

MARCHING TOWARDS FATIKO ... ... ... ... 267 

MUSICAL ENTHUSIASTS— THE WOMEN FLOCK TO THE BAND ... 261 

RECEPTION OF THE CHIEF OF FAIEERA — ROT JARMA ... ... 278 

POT^LE-GOURD OF UNYORO ... ... ... ... 289 

KAEBA REGA AND HIS GREAT CHIEFS RETURNING A VISIT ... 308 

SUDDEN HOSTILE DEMONSTRATION — THE TROOPS FORM A SQUARE 349 

PLAN OP SMALL CIRCULAR FORT AT MASINDI, AND SECTION OF 

STOCKADE ... ... ... ... ... ... 356 

BATTLE OF 3IASINDA— REPULSE AND DEFEAT OF KABBA R^GA's 

FORCES ... ... ... ... ... ... 365 

NATIVES SET FIRE TO THE SOLDIERS' CAMP AT NIGHT ... 376 

ATTACK ON THE REAR-GUARD BY AMBUSCADE— DEATH OF A BRAVE 

SOLDIER .. ... ... ... ... ... 387 

THE VICTORIA NILE — AT RIONGA's ISLAND ... ... ... 402 

RSOEPTION OF RIONGA ... ... ... ... ... 404 

TI?B SLAVE-nUNTERS' ATTACK AT FATIKO -THE ADVANCE OF " THE 

FORTY thieves" ... ... ... ... ... 413 



X LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

To face 
page 

FORT FATIKO ... ... ... ... ... ... 432 

FORT FATIKO — GROUND PLAN ... ... ... ... 435 

VIEW FROM THE ROCK FORT OF FATIKO ... ... ... 435 

NET HUNTING IN THE SHOOLT TRIBE ... ... ... 438 

DRIVING THE PRAIRIE WITH FIRE ... ... ... ... 440 

CHARGE OF A LIONESS ... ... ... ... ... 444 

DESTRUCTION OF LIEUT.-COLOXEL TAYIB AGHA'S DETACHMENT AT 

MOOGI ... ... ... ... ... ... 450 

AFFECTIONATE RESULTS OF A SUDDEN FEMALE EMANCIPATION ... 453 

THE NEW STEAMER, " THE KHEDIVE " ... ... ... 454 

GONDOKORO, OR ISMAILIA ... ... ... ... ... 455 

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF EDWIN HIGGINBOTHAM ... ... 456 



PEEFACE. 



An interval of five years has elapsed since tlie termination of my 
engagement in the service of Ilis Highness the Khedive of 
Egypt, to suppress the slave-hunters of Central Africa, and to 
annex the countries constituting the Nile Basin, with the object 
of oi)eniug those savage regions to legitimate commerce and 
establishing a permanent government." 

This volume — "Ismailia" — gives a.n accurate description of 
the salient points of the expedition. My thanks are due to the 
public for the kind reception of the work, and for the general 
appreciation of the spirit which prompted me to undertake a 
mission so utterly opposed to the Egyptian ideas of 1869 — 1873 ; 
at a time when no Englishman had held a high command, when 
rival consulates were struggling for paramount influence, when 
the native officials were jealous of foreign interference, and it 
appeared that slavery and the slave-trade of the White Nile 
were institutions almost necessary to the existence of Egyptian 
society. 

It was obvious to all observers that an attack upon the slave- 
dealing and slave-hunting establishments of Egypt by a foreigner 
— an Englishman — would be equal to a raid upon a hornets' nest, 
that all efl'orts to suppress the old-established traffic in negro 
slaves would be encountered with a determined opposition, and 
that the prime agent and leader of such an expedition must be 
regarded ''with hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness." At 



xii 



PREFACE. 



that period (1869) the highest authorities were adverse to the 
attempt. An official notice was despatched from the British 
Poieign Office to the Consul-General of Egypt that British 
subjects belonging to Sir Samuel Baker's expedition must not 
expect the support of their government in the event of compli- 
cations. The enterprise was generally regarded as chimerical 
in Europe, with hostib'ty in Egypt, but with sympathy in 
America. 

Those who have read "Ismailia" may have felt some despond- 
ency. Although the slave-hunters were driven out of the 
territory under my command, there were nevertheless vast tiacts 
of country through which new routes could be opened for the 
shive caravans to avoid the cruising steamers on the White Nile, 
and thus defeat the government. The Sultan of Darfur offered 
an asylum and a secure passage for all slaves and their captors 
who could no longer venture within the new boundaries of 
Egypt. It was evident that the result of the expedition under 
my command was a death-blow to the slave-trade, if the Khe- 
dive was determined to persist in its destruction. I had simply 
achieved the success of a foundation for a radical reform in the 
so-called commerce of the White Nile. The government had 
been established throughout the newly -acquired territories, which 
were occupied by military positions garrisoned with regular 
troop!*, and all those districts were absolutely purged from the 
slave-hunters. In this condition I resigned my command, as the 
first act was accomplished. The future would depend upon the 
sincerity of the Khedive, and upon the ability and integrity of 
my successor. 

It pleased many people and some members of the press in 
England to disbelieve the sincerity of the Khedive. He was 
accused of annexation under the pretext of suppressing the vast 
organizat ion of the White Nile slave-trade. It was freely stated 
that an Englishman was placed in command because an Egyptian 
could not be relied upon to succeed, but that the greed of new 
territory was the actual and sole object of the expedition, and 
that the slave-trade would reappear in stupendous activity when 



PREFACE. 



xiii 



the English personal influence should be withdrawn. Such un- 
sympathetic expressions must have been a poor rcAvard to the 
Khedive for his efforts to win the esteem of the civilized world 
by the destruction of the slave-trade in his own dominions. 

Eew persons have considered the position of the Egyptian 
ruler when attacking the institution most cherished by his 
people. The employment of an European to overthrow the 
slave-trade in deference to the opinion of the civilized world 
was a direct challenge and attack upon the assumed rights and 
necessities of his own subjects. The magnitude of the operation 
cannot be understood by the general public in Europe. Every 
household in Upper Egypt and in the Delta was dependent upon 
slave service ; the fields in the Soudan were cultivated by slaves; 
the women in the harems of both rich and middle class were 
attended by slaves ; the poorer Arab woman's ambition was to 
possess a slave ; in fact, Egyptian society without slaves would 
be like a carriage devoid of wheels — it could not proceed. 

The slaves were generally well treated by their owners ; the 
brutality lay in their capture, with the attendant lawlessness and 
murders ; but that was far away, and the slave proprietors of 
Egypt had not witnessed the miseries of the weary marches of 
the distant caravans. They purchased slaves, taught them their 
duties, fed and clothed them — they were happy; why should 
the Khedive of Egypt prohibit the trafEc and thus disturb 
every household in his territory 1 

There is no Hyde Park or Trafalgar Square in Egypt, there are 
no agitators nor open-air meetings, fortunately for the modern 
ruler, or he would have had an unpleasant expression of the 
popular sentiment at the close of my administration. The 
break-up of the White Nile slave-trade involved the depression 
of trade in Khartoum, as the market had supplied the large 
bands of slave-hunters. The ivory of the numerous adventurers 
still remained in the White Nile stations, as they feared con- 
fiscation should their vessels be captured with the ever accom- 
panying slave ca go. Thus little ivory arrivel at Khartoum to 
meet the debts of the traders to the merchants in Cairo and 



xiv 



PREFACE. 



Alexandria. These owed Manchester and Liverpool for calicoes 
supplied, which had been forwarded to the Soudan. 

The direct blow at the AVhite i!\ ile slave-trade was an indirect 
attack upon the commerce of the country, which was insepar- 
ably connected with the demand of the Soudan employers of 
brigands. 

Tliis slight outline of the situation will exhibit the difficulties 
of the Khedive in his thankless and Herculean task of cleansing 
the Augean stables. He inciuTed the wrath of general discon- 
tent; his own officials accused him of deserting the Mahomniedan 
cause for the sake of European Kudos, and while he sacrificed 
his popularity in Egypt, his policy was misconstrued by the 
powers he had sought to gratify. He was accused of civilizing 
through the medium of fire and sword " by the same English 
journals which are now extolling the prowess of the British 
arms in Calfraria and the newly-annexed Transvaal ! 

In this equivocal position it would have been natural either 
to have abandoned the enterprise at the termination of my 
own engagement^ or to have placed a Mahommedan officer in 
charge of the new provinces. Instead of this. His Highness 
adhered most strictly to his original determination, and to prove 
his sincerity he entrusted the commatid to an EngUsh officer of 
higir reputation, not only for militaiy capacity, but for a peculiar 
attribute of self-sacrifice and devotion. Colonel C. E. Gordon, 
E.E., C.B., was appoiute.! Governor-General of the Soudan 
and equatorial districts, with supreme power. 

This appointment extinguished the "lelusions which had been 
nourished by the Soudan autliDrities, "that at the expiration of 
Baker Pacha's rule the good old times of slavery and lawlessness 
wou'd return." There was no longer any hope ; the slave-trade 
was supi tressed, and the foundation was laid for the intrixluction 
of European ideas and civilization. It will now be interesting 
to trace an outline of the advance of Egypt during the last five 
years. 

The main difficulty in my original enterprise was the obstruc- 
tion of the White Nile by the accumulation of matted vegetation, 



PREFACE. 



XV 



whicli impeded navigation, and actually closed the river. Upon 
arrival at Gondokoro, after the tedious process of cutting through 
50 miles of swamp and vegetable matter, via the Bahr Giraffe, 
I ha-l requested the Khodive to issue an order that the Governor 
of Khartoum shouhl immediately commence the great work of 
re-opening the White Nile. 

His Highness without delay forwarded the necessary instruc- 
tions, and in two years the work was completed by Ismail 
Ayoob Pacha, with the loss of several vessels which had been 
overwhelmed by the sudden bursting of vast masses of floating 
swamps and entangled reeds. It had been necessary to com- 
mence operations below stream, to enable the blocks of vegetation 
to escape when detached by cutting from the main body. 

The White Nile was restored to navigation a few months 
after my return to England, and was clear for large vessels by 
the time that Colonel Gordon arrived in Khartoum. 

I had originally sent up six steamers from Cairo to ply 
between Khartoum and Gondokoro ; these had been simply em- 
ployed as far as Fashoda station, but as the Nile was now open, 
they at once established a rapid and regular communication with 
the equatorial provinces. The terrible difficulty had vanished, 
and Gondokoro was Jinked with the outer world from which it 
had been excluded. The apj^liances which had been prepared 
with much care could now be utilized. With the river open, 
supplies and reinforcements could be immediately forwarded, 
and the ivory which had accumulated in the government 
stations could be brought to market. In addition to the 
physical advantages of restored communication, a great moral 
change was effected throughout the officers and troops ; they 
felt no longer banished from the world, but accepted their posi- 
tion as garrisons in Egyptian territory. 

At Gondokoro I had constructed a steel steamer of 108 tons, 
and I had left ready i>acked for land transport a steamer of the 
same metal 38 ton^, in addition to two steel life-boats of each 
10 tons, for conveyance to the Albert N'yanza. At Khartoum 
I had left in sections a steamer of 251 tons. AH these vessels 



xvi 



PREFACE. 



had been bronght from England and conveyed with incredible 
trouble upon camels across the deserts to Khartoum. 

Before my arrival in the Soudan tlie entire river force of 
steamers upon the Blue and White Niles was represented by 
four very inferior vessels. I had added six from Cairo, and 
built a seventh ; thus I left a force of eleven steamers working 
on the river, exclusive of two in sections. 

The stations garrisoned by regular troops were — 

1. Gondokoro, K lat. 4° 54'. 

2. Fatiko, „ 3° 2'. 

3. Foweera, „ 2° 6'. 

4. Fabbo, „ 3° 8'. 
By the newly-raised irregulars — 

5. Farragenia. 

6. Faloro. 

In this position of affairs Colonel Gordon succeeded to the 
command in the spring of 1874. Although the Bari tribe, which 
had been subdued, was nominally at peace, it was hardly safe to 
travel through the country without an armed escort. 

Colonel Gordon's first effort was in favour of conciliation, 
with the hope of inspiring a friendly spirit among the chiefs. 
At the same time he resolved to offer' a chance for reform to 
the slave-hunter Abou Saood, who he considered might amend 
his ways, and from his knowledge of the people become a 
useful officer to the government. Unfortunately, the leopard 
could not change his spots, and the man, to whom every 
opportunity had been given, was dismissed and punished. It 
was impossible to have discovered an officer more thoroughly 
qualified for the command than Colonel Gordon. By pro- 
fession a military engineer, he combined the knowledge 
specially required for carrying on the enterprise. He had 
extended the hand of friendship to the natives, but when 
rejected with contempt and opposed by hostility, he was prompt 
in chastisement. The wet seasons and attendant high flood of 
two years were employed in dragging the 108-ton steel steamer 
up the various cataracts which intervened between Gondokoro 



PREFACE. 



xvii 



and Duffli (K lat. 3° SV). This portion of tlie river formed a 
series of steps caused by a succession of cataracts at intervals 
of about 25 miles ; between the obstacles the stream was 
navigable. The natives of Moogi treacherously attacked and 
killed the whole of a detachment, including the French officer 
in command, during the absence of Colonel Gordon, who 
was engaged in the operation of towing the steamer through the 
rapids only a few miles distant. This open hostility necessitated 
the subjugation of the tribe, and the establishment of a line of 
military posts along the course of the river. 

After much trouble, at the expiration of two years the steamer 
was dragged to an utterly impassable series of cataracts south of 
Lobore. This line of obstruction extended for the short distance 
of about twelve miles, beyond which the river was navigable 
into the Albert N'yaiiza. 

Several vessels had been towed up together with the steamer 
from Gondokoro, and the 38-ton steel steamer and two life-boats 
which had been thus conveyed, were now carried in sections to 
the spot above the last cataracts at Duffli, where they could be 
permanently reconstructed. 

Signor Gessi was entrusted with the command of the two 
life-boats upon their completion, and had the honour of first 
entering the Albert N'yanza from the north by the river Nile. 

The 38-ton steamer was put together, and the 108-ton (Khe- 
dwe), which had been left a few miles distant from Duffli, below 
ths cataracts, was taken to pieces and reconstructed on the 
navigable portion of the Nile in N. lat. 3° 34'. 

The plan of connecting the equatorial Lake Albert with 
Khartoum by steam communication which I had originated, was 
now completed by the untiring energy and patience of my 
successor. The large steamer of 251 tons was put together at 
Khartoum, to add to the river fl. )tilla, thus increasing the steam 
power from four vessels, when I had arrived in 1870, to th irteeit^ 
which in 1877 were plying between the capital of the Soudan 
and the equator. The names of ]\Iessrs, Samuda Bfothers and 
Messrs. Penn and Co. upon the three steei steamers and engines 

h 



PREFACE. 



which they had constructed for the expedition are now evidences 
of the civilizing power of the naval and mechanical engineers of 
Great Britain, Avhich has linked with the great world countries 
that were hitherto excluded from all intercourse. 

There is still some mystery attached to the Albert X'yanzii. 
It has been circumnavigated by Signor Gessi, in the steel life- 
boats, and subsequently by Colonel Mason of the American 
army, who was employed under Colonel Gordon. Both of these 
officers agree that the southern end of the lake is closed by a 
mass of " ambatch," and that a large river reported as 400 yards 
in width flows into the Albert jST'yanza. On the other harfd, the 
well-known African explorer Mr. Stanley visited the lake south 
of the ambatch limit, to which he was guided by orders of 
the King M'tese. At that spot it was called the " ^M'woota 
]S^'zige," the same name which the lake bears throughout 
Unyoro, therefore there can be no reasonable doubt that it is 
the same water. The description of the ambatch block and the 
river flowing into the lake explains the information that was 
given to me by native traders, who declared they had come by 
canoe from Karagwe, via the Albert JST'yanza, but that it would 
be difficult without a guide to discover the passage where the 
lake was extremely narrow and the channel tortuous into the 
next broad water. 

Colonel Gordon has continued the amicable relations estab- 
lished by myself with the Un3'-oro chief Eionga, and with 
M'tese, King of Uganda. 

The commercial aspect of the equatorial provinces is improving, 
but our recent experience in South Africa must teach the most 
sanguine that very many years must elapse before the negro tribes 
become amenable to the customs and improvements of civilized 
communities. 

The expedition of 1869 which His Highness the Khedive 
entrusted to my command laid the foundation for reforms which 
at that time would have appeared incredible in Egypt. The 
slave-trade has been suppressed through the agency of British 
influence, persistently supported by the Khedive ; Darfur, the 



PREFACE. 



xii 



hot-bed of slave -hunting, has been conquered and annexed ; 
Colonel Gordon has the supreme command of the entire Soudan ; 
Malcolm Pacha is commissioned to sweep the slave traffic from 
the Eeil Sea. 

With this determination to adopt the ideas of Europe, the 
Khedive has passed through the trying ordeal of unpopularity 
in his own country, but, by a cool disregard for the hostility of 
the ignorant, he has adhered to a policy which has gained him 
the esteem of all civilized communities. He has witnessed the 
bloody struggle between Russia and Turkey, and though compelled 
as a vassal state to render military assistance to the Sultan, he 
has profited by the lesson, and has determined by a wise reform 
to avoid the errors which have resulted in anarchy and desolation 
throughout the Ottoman Empire. 

In the year 1870 the slave-hunting of Central Africa was 
condemned. Since that time Englishmen have been honoured 
with the special attention of the Khedive, and have been ap- 
pointed to posts of the highest confidence. European tribunals 
were established in the place of consular jurisdiction, British 
government officials have been invited to reform the financial 
administration, and Mr. Kivers Wilson has been induced to 
accept the responsible office of Minister of Finance. Nubar 
Pacha has been recalled to office, and he must regard with pride 
the general confidence occasioned throughout Europe by his re 
appointment. The absolute despotism hitherto inseparable from 
Oriental ideas of government has been spontaneously abrogated 
by the Khedive, who has publicly announced his determination 
that- the future administration shall be conducted by a council 
of responsible mini?ters. 

England has become the great shareholder in the Suez Canal, 
which is the important link with our Indian Empire. At the 
alarm of war we have already seen the fleet of steam transports 
hurrying through the isthmus, and carrying native troops to join 
the British forces in the Mediterranean. We have learnt to 
know, and the Khedive has wisdom to understand, that the 
bonds between Egypt and Great Britain are inseparable. At the 



XX 



PflEFAGE. 



same time we Lave been aided by the cordial alliance of France 
in promoting the advance of free institutions and the growth of 
European influence in the administration of the country. Eng- 
land aud France, who struggled in hostile rivalry upon the sands 
and seas of Egypt, are now joined in the firm determination 
to uphold the integrity of the great canal of Suez, and these 
powers and leaders of civilization will become the guides and 
guardians of Egyptian interests. The reforms already sanctioned 
with a new era of justice and economy will insure the confidence 
of British capitalists ; the resources of Egypt will be developed 
by engineering skill that will control the impetuosity of the Xile 
and protect the Delta alike from the scarcity of drought, and 
from the risk of inundation. The ISTile sources, which from 
the earliest times had remained a mystery, have been discovered 
by the patience and industry of Englishmen; the Nile will at 
no distant period be rendered navigable throughout its course, 
and Egypt, which for actual existence depends alone upon that 
mighty river, will be restored by British enterprise, supported 
by the intelligence and good-will of its ruler, to the position 
which it held in the pages of Eastern history. 

1878. s. ^y. B. 



ISM AILIA 



CHAPTEE I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

In tlie present work I shall describe the history of the Khedive 
of Egypt's expedition, which I have had the honour to command, 
as the first practical step that has been taken to suppress the slave 
trade of Central Africa. 

I shall not repeat, beyond what may be absolutely necessary, 
that which has already been published in my former Avorks on 
Africa, "The Albert N'yanza" and The Mle Tributaries of 
Abyssinia," but I shall adhere to the simple path taken by the 
expedition. This enterprise was the natural result of my original 
explorations, in which I had been an eye-witness to the horrors 
of the slave trade, which I determined, if possible, to suppress. 

In my former journey I had traversed countries of extreme 
fertility in Central Africa, with a healthy climate favourable for 
the settlement of European:?, at a mean altitude of 4,000 feet 
above the sea level. This large and almost boundless extent of 
country was well peopled by a race who only required the pro- 
tection of a strong but paternal government to become of con- 
siderable importance, and to eventually develop the great resources 
of the soil. 

I found lands varying in natural capabilities according to their 
position and altitudes — where sugar, cotton, coffee, rice, spices, 
and all tropical produce might be successfully cultivated ; but 
those lands were without any civilized form of government, and 
" every man did what seemed right in his own eyes." 

In this dislocated state of society, the slave trade prospered to 
the detriment of all improvement. Eich and well-populated 
countries were rendered desolate; the women and children were 

B 



2 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. I. 



carried into capti^dty; villages were burnt, and crops were 
destroyed or pillaged; tlie population was driven out; a terres- 
trial paradise was converted into an infernal region; the natives 
who were originally friendly were rendered hostile to all strangers, 
and the general result of the slave trade could only be expressed 
in one word — "ruin." 

The slave hunters and traders who had caused this desola- 
tion were for the most part Arabs, subjects of the Egyptian 
government. 

These people had deserted their agricultural occupations in the 
Soudan and had formed companies of brigands in the pay of 
various merchants of Khartoum. The largest trader had about 
2,500 Arabs in his pay, em^^loyed as pirates or brigands, in 
Central Africa. These men were organized after a rude military 
fashion, and armed with muskets ; they were divided into com- 
panies, and were officered in many cases by soldiers who had 
deserted from their regiments in Egypt or the Soudan. 

It is supposed that about 15,000 of the Khedive's subjects 
who should have been industriously working and paying then' 
taxes in Egypt were engaged in the so-called ivory trade and 
slave-hunting of the White ISTile. 

Each trader occupied a special district, where, by a division of 
his forces in a chain of stations, each of which represented about 
300 men, he could exercise a right of possession over a certain 
amount of assumed territory. 

In this manner enormous tracts of country were occupied by 
the armed bands from Khartoum, who could make alliances with 
the native tribes to attack and destroy their neighbours, and to 
carry off their women and children, together with vast herds of 
sheep and cattle. 

I have abeady fully described this system in " The Albert 
N'yanza," therefore it will be unnecessary to enter into minute 
details in the present work. It will be sufficient, to convey 
an idea of the extended scale of the slave-hunting operations, 
to explain that an individual trader named Agad assumed the 
right over nearly ninety thousand square miles of territory. 
Thus his companies of brigands could pillage at discretion, 
massacre, take, burn, or destroy throughout this enormous area, 
or even beyond this broad limit, if they had the power. 

It is impossible to know the actual number of slaves taken 
from Central Africa annually ; but I should imagine that at least 
fifty thousand are positively either captured and held in the 
various zareebas (or camps) or are sent via, the White Nile and 



CHAP. I.J 



THE PniNCE OF WALES. 



3 



the various routes overland by Darfur and Kordofan. The loss of 
life attendant upon the capture and subsequent treatment of the 
slaves is frightful. The result of this forced emigration, com- 
bined mtli the insecurity of life and projDerty, is the withdrawal 
of the population from the infested districts. The natives have 
the option of submission to every insult, to the violation of their 
women and the pillage of their crops, or they must either desert 
their homes and seek independence in distant districts, or ally 
themselves with their oppressors to assist in the oppression of 
other tribes. Thus the seeds of anarchy are sown throughout 
Africa, which fall among tribes naturally prone to discord. The 
result is horrible confusion, — distrust on all sides, — treachery, 
devastation, and ruin. 

This was the state of Central Africa and the White Nile when 
I was first honoured with the notice of Ismail Pacha, the present 
Khedive of Egypt. 

I had received certain intimations from the Foreign Minister, 
Nubar Pacha, concerning the Khedive's intentions, a short time 
previous to an invitation with which I was honoured by his 
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales to accompany their Royal 
Highnesses the Prince and Princess during their tour in Egypt. 

It is almost needless to add that, upon arrival in Egypt, the 
Prince of Wales, who represented at heart the principles of Great 
Britain, took the warmest interest in the sujDpression of the slave 
trade. 

The Khedive, thus supported and encouraged in his ideas of 
reform, concluded his arrangements for the total abolition of the 
slave trade, not only throughout his dominions, but he deter- 
mined to attack that moral cancer by actual cautery at the very 
root of the evil. 

I was accordingly requested to draw up a plan for the proposed 
expedition to Central Africa. 

After some slight modifications, I received from the Khedive 
the following firman : — 

" We, Ismail, Khedive of Egypt, considering the savage con- 
dition of the tribes which inhabit the Nile Basin ; 

" Considering that neither government, nor laws, nor security 
exists in those countries ; 

" Considering that humanity enforces the suppression of the 
slave-hunters who occupy those countries in great numbers ; 

" Considering that the establishment of legitimate commerce 
throughout those countries will be a great stride towards future 
civilization, and will result in the opening to steam navigation of 

B 2 



4 



ISMAILIA, 



[chap. I. 



the great equatorial lakes of Central Africa, and in the estahlish- 
iiig a permanent government .... We have decreed and 
now decree as follows : — 

" An expedition is organized to subdue to our authority the 
countries situated to the south of Gondokoro ; 

" To suppress the slave trade ; to introduce a system of regular 
commerce ; 

" To open to navigation the great lakes of the equator ; 

" And to establish a chain of military stations and commercial 
depots, distant at intervals of three days' march, throughout 
Central Africa, accepting Gondokoro as the base of opera- 
tions. 

" The supreme command of this expedition is confided to Sir 
Samuel White Baker, for four years, commencing from 1st April, 
1869 ; to whom also we confer the most absolute and supremo 
power, even that of death, over all those who may compose the 
expedition. 

" We confer upon him the same absolute and supreme author- 
ity over all those countries belonging to the Mle Basin south of 
Gondokoro." 

It was thus that the Khedive determined at the risk of his 
popularity among his own subjects to strike a direct blow at the 
slave trade in its distant nest. To insure the fulfilment of this 
difficult enterprise, he selected an Englishman, armed with a 
despotic power such as had never been intrusted by a Moham- 
medan to a Christian. 

The slave trade was to be suppressed ; legitimate commerce 
was to be introduced, and protection was to be afforded to the 
natives by the establishment of a government. 

The suppression of the slave trade Avas a compliment to the 
European Powers which would denote the superiority of Egypt, 
and would lay the first stone in the foundation of a new civiliza- 
tion ; and a population that was rapidly disappearing would be 
saved to Africa. 

To effect this grand reform it would be necessary to annex the 
'Nile Basin, and to establish a government in countries that had 
been hitherto without protection, and a prey to the adventurers 
from the Soudan. To convey steel steamers from England, and 
to launch them upon the Albert Lake, and thus open the resources 
of Central Africa ; to establish legitimate trade in a vast country 
which had hitherto been a field of rapine and of murder ; to pro- 
tect the weak and to punish the evil-doer, and to open the road 
to a great future, where the past had been all darkness and the 



CHAP. I.] 



THE LAKE STEAMERS. 



5 



present reckless spoliation — this was the grani object which 
Ismail, the Khedive of Egypt, determined to accomplish. 

In this humane enterprise he was firmly supported by his two 
Ministers, i^ubar Pacha and Cherif Pacha (an Armenian and a 
Circassian). The young princes his sons, who are well-educated 
and enlightened men, took the greatest interest in the under- 
taking ; but beyond these and a few others, the object of the 
expedition was regarded with ill-concealed disgust. 

Having received full powers from the Khedive, I gave orders 
for the following vessels to be built of steel by Messrs. Samuda 
Brothers : — 

No. 1. A paddle steamer of 251 tons, 32-horse power. 
No. 2. A twin screw high-pressure steamer of 20-horse power, 108 tons. 
No. 3. A twin screw high-pressure steamer of 10-horse power, 38 tons. 
Ncs. 4, 5. Two steel lifeboats, each 30 ft. by 9 = 10 tons each. 

These vessels were fitted Avith engines of the best construction 
by Messrs. Penn &; Co., and were to be carried across the Nubian 
desert in plates and sections. 

In addition to the steamers were steam saw mills, with a 
boiler that weighed 8 cwt. in one piece — all of which would have 
to be transported by camels for several hundred miles across the 
Nubian desert, and by boats and camels alternately from Alexan- 
dria to Gondokoro, a distance of about three thousand miles. 

In the description of this enterprise, which terminated in the 
suppression of the slave trade of the White Nile and the annex- 
ation of a large equatorial territory to Egypt, I shall be compelled 
to expose many abuses which were the result of misgovernment 
in the distant provinces of Upper Egypt. It must be distinctly 
understood that his Highness the Khedive was ignorant of such 
abuses, and that he took prompt and vigorous measures to reform 
the administration of the Soudan immediately upon receiving 
information of the misgovernment of that extensive territory. 
Throughout the expedition his Highness has exhibited a deter- 
mination to succeed in the suppression of the slave trade in spite 
of the adverse opinion of the public, — therefore, when I expose 
the abuses that existed, it must be accepted without hesitation 
that the Khedive Avould have been the foremost in punishing the 
authors and in rectifying such abuses had he been aAvare of their 
existence. 

As a duty to the Khedive, and in justice to myself, I shaU 
describe the principal incidents as they occurred throughout the 
expedition. The civilized world wUl form both judge and jury ; 



6 



ISMAILI^L 



[chap. it. 



if their verdict Ije favourable, I sliall liavc my reward. I can 
only assure my fellow-men that I have songht earnestly tlie 
guidance of the Almighty in the use of the great power com- 
mitted to me, and I trust that I have been permitted to lay a 
firm foundation for a good work hereafter. 



CKAPTEH 11. 

ENGLISH PARTY. 

The success of an expedition depends mainly upon organisation. 
From my former experience in Central Africa, I knew exactly 
the requirements of the natives, and all the material that would 
be necessary for the enterprise. I also knew tliat the old 
adage of " out of flight out of mind " might be adopted as the 
Egyptian motto, therefore it would be indispensable to supply 
myself with everything at the outset, so as to be independent of 
support hereafter. 

The English party consisted of myself and Lady Baker ; Lieu- 
tenant Julian AUeyne Baker, E.X. ; Mr. Edwin Higginbotham, 
civil engineer ; Mr. AVood, secretary ; Dr. Joseph Gedge, physi- 
cian ; Mr. ]\rarcopolo, chief storekeeper and interpreter ; Mr. 
McATilliam, chief engineer of steamers ; Mr. Jarvis, chief ship- 
wright ; together with Messrs. Whitfield, Samson, Hitchman, 
and E<amsall, shipwrights, boiler-makers, &c. In addition to the 
above were two servants. 

I laid in stores sufficient to last the European party four years. 

I provided four galvanized iron magazines, each eighty feet 
long by twenty in width, to protect all material 

Before I left England I personally selected every article that 
was necessary for the expedition ; thus an expenditure of about 
£9,000 was sufficient for the purchase of the almost innumeral^le 
items that formed the outfit for the enterj^rise. This included 
an admirable selection of Manchester goods, such as cotton sheet- 
ing, grey calico, cotton and also woollen blankets, white, scarlet, 
and blue ; Indian scarfs, red and yellow ; handkerchiefs of gaudy 
colours, chintz printed; scarlet flannel shirts, serge of colours 
(blue, red), linen trowsers, &c., &c. 

Tools of all sorts — axes, small hatchets, harness bells, brass 
and copper rods_, combs, zinc mirrors, knives, crockery, tin plates, 



LIEUT. JULIAN ALLEYNE BAKER, R.N. 




MR. EDWIN HIGGINBOTHAM, Engineer-In-Chief of the Expedition. 



CHAP. II.] 



ARRANGEMENTS. 



7 



fish-hooks, musical boxes, coloured prints, finger-rings, razors, 
tinned spoons, cheap watches, &c., &c. 

All these tilings were purchased through Messrs. Silber & 
Fleming, of Wood Street, Cheapside. 

I thus had sufficient clothing for a considerable body of troops 
if necessary, while the magazines could produce anything from a 
needle to a crowbar, or from a handkerchief to a boat's sail. It 
will be seen hereafter that these caref id arrangements assured the 
success of the expedition, as the troops, when left without pay, 
could procure all they required from the apparently inexhaustible 
stores of the magazines. 

In addition to the merchandise and general supplies, I had 
several large musical boxes with bells and drums, an excellent 
magic lantern, a magnetic battery, wheels of life, and an assort- 
ment of toys. The greatest wonder to the natives were two 
large girandoles; also the silvered balls, about six inches in 
diameter, that, suspended from the branch of a tree, reflected the 
scene beneath. 

In every expedition the principal difficulty is the transport. 

" Travel light, if possible," is the best advice for all countries ; 
but in this instance it was simply impossible, as the object of 
the expedition Avas not only to convey steamers to Central Africa, 
but to establish legitimate trade in the place of the nefarious 
system of pillage hitherto adopted by the so-called White ]S[ile 
traders. It was therefore absolutely necessary to possess a large 
stock of goods of all kinds, in addition to the machinery and 
steel sections of steamers. 

I arranged that the expedition should start in three divisions. 

Six steamers, varying from 40 to 80-horse power, were ordered 
to leave Cairo in June, together with fifteen sloops and fifteen 
diahbeeahs — total, thirty-six vessels — to ascend the cataracts of 
the Nile to Khartoum, a distance by river of about 1,450 miles. 
These vessels were to convey the whole of the merchandise. 

Twenty-five vessels were ordered to be in readiness at Khar- 
toum, together with three steamers. The governor-general 
(Djiaffer Pacha) was to provide these vessels by a certain date, 
together with the camels and horses necessary for the land 
transport. 

Thus when the fleet should arrive at Khartoum from Cairo, 
the total force of vessels would be nine steamers and fifty-five 
sailing vessels, the latter averaging about fifty tons each. 

Mr. Higginbotham had the command of the desert transport 
from Korosko to Kliartoum, and to that admirable officer I 



8 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. II. 



intrusted the charge of the steamer sections and machinery, 
together ^vith the command of the English engineers and 
mechanics. 

I arranged to bring np the rear by another route, via Souakim 
on the Eed Sea, from Avhich the desert journey to Berber, on the 
Nile, K lat. 17° 37', is 275 statute miles. 

]\ry reason for this division of routes was to insure a quick 
supply of camels, as much delay would have been occasioned 
had the great mass of transport been conveyed by one road. 

The military arrangements comprised a force of 1,645 troops, 
including a corps of 200 irregular cavalry, and two batteries of 
artillery. The infantry were two regiments, supposed to be well 
selected. The black or Soudani regiment included many officers 
and men who had served for some years in Mexico with the 
French army under Marshal Bazaine. The Egyptian regiment 
turned out to be for the most part convicted felons who had 
been transported for various crimes from Egypt to the Soudan. 

The artillery were rifled mountain guns of bronze, the barrel 
weighing 230 lbs., and throwing shells of 8J lbs. The authorities 
at Woolwich had kindly supplied the expedition with 200 
Hale's rockets — three-i)omiders — and fifty snider rifles, together 
with 50,000 rounds of snider ammunition. The military force 
and supplies were to be massed in Khartoum ready to meet me 
upon my arrival. 

I had taken extra precautions in the packing of ammunition 
and all perishable goods. The teak boxes for snider ammu- 
nition, also the boxes of Hale's rockets, were lined and her- 
metically sealed with soldered tin. The light Manchester goods 
and smaller articles were packed in strong, useful, painted 
tin boxes, with locks and hinges, &c. Each box was numbered, 
and when the lid was opened, a tin plate was soldered over the 
open face, so that the lid, when closed, locked above an 
hermetically sealed case. Each tin box was packed in a deal 
case, Avith a number to correspond with the box within. 

By this arrangement the tin boxes arrived at their destination 
as good as ncAv, and were quite invaluable for travelling, as they 
each formed a handy load, and were alike proof against the 
attacks of insects and bad weather. 

I had long waterproof cloaks for the night sentries in rainy 
climates, and sou'-wester cai)s ; these proved of great service 
during active operations in the Avet season, as the rifles were kept 
dry beneath the cloaks, and the men were i^rotected from wet 
and cold when on guard. 



CHAP. II.] 



BELAYS. 



9 



All medicines and drugs were procured from Apothecaries' 
Hall, and Avere accordingly of the best quality. 

The provisions for the troops were dhurra {soryhum vulgare)^ 
wheat, rice, and lentils. The supplies from England, and in 
fact the general arrangements, had been so carefully attended to, 
that tin'oughout the expedition I could not feel a want, neither 
could I either regret or wish to have changed any plan that I had 
originally determined. 

For the transport of the heavy machinery across the desert I 
employed gun carriages drawn by two camels each. The two 
sections of steamers and of lifeboats were slung upon long poles 
of fir from Trieste, arranged between two camels in the manner 
of shafts. Many hundred poles served this purpose, and sub- 
sequently were used at head-quarters as rafters for magazines and 
various buildings. 

The No. 1 steamer of 250 tons had not arrived from England. 
I therefore left instructions that she was to be forwarded across 
the desert upon the same principles as adopted for the transport 
of the other vessels. 

I had thrown my whole heart into the expedition ; but I 
quickly perceived the difficulties that I should encounter in the 
passive resistance of those whose interests would be affected by 
the suppression of the slave trade. The arrangements that I had 
made would have insured success, if carried out according to the 
dates specified. The six steamers and the sailing flotilla from 
Cairo should have started on 10th June, in order to have 
ascended the cataracts of Wady Halfah at the period of high 
water. Instead of this, the vessels were delayed, in the absence 
of the Khedive in Europe, until 29th August ; thus, by the time 
they reached the second cataract, the river had fallen, and it 
was impossible to drag the steamers through the passage until 
the next season. Thus twelve months were wasted, and I was at 
once deprived of the invaluable aid of six steamers. 

In addition to this difhcnlty was the fact of inevitable delay 
necessitated by the festivities attending the opening of the Suez 
Canal. The Khedive, with his accustomed hospitality, had 
made immense preparations for the reception of visitors, and 
every available vessel had been j^repared for the occasion. 

A train of forty-one railway waggons laden with sections of 
steamers, machinery, boiler-plates, &c., &c., arrived at Cairo, and 
were embarked on board eleven hired vessels. With the greatest 
difficulty I procured a steamer of 140 -horse power to tow this 
Hotilla to Korosko, from which spot the desert journey would 



10 



ISIMAILIA. 



[chap. II. 



commence. I obiaiiied this steamer only by personal application 
to the Khedive. 

At length I witnessed the start of the entire English party of 
engineers and mechanics, together with IMr. Higginbotham and 
Dr. J. Gedge. The steamer Minieh towed the long line of 
eleven vessels against the powerful stream of the !N"ile. One of 
the tow-ropes snapped at the commencement of the voyage, wliich 
created some confusion, but when righted they quickly steamed 
out of view. This mass of heavy material, including tAvo 
steamers, and two steel lifeboats of ten tons each, was to be 
transported for a distance of about 3,000 miles, 400 of which 
would be across the scorching Xubian deserts ! 

The first division of the heavy baggage had started on 29th 
August, 1869, with the sloops, to ascend the cataracts direct by 
river to Khartoum. I dared not trust any portions of the 
steamers bj'" this dangerous route, lest by the loss of one vessel 
with sections I might destroy all hope of success. 

It was a relief to have started the main branches of the 
expedition, after the various delays that had already seriously 
endangered the chances of the White Nile voyage. For that 
river all vessels should leave Khartoum early in ISTovember. 

On 5tli December, 1869, Ave brought up the rear, and left 
Suez on board an Egyptian sloop of Avar, the Senaar. In four 
days and a half Ave reached Souakim, after an escape from wreck 
on-- the reef of Sliadwan, and a close acquaintance Avith a large 
barque, Avitli AAdiicli Ave nearly came into collision. 

The captain of our sloop Avas a most respectable man, apparently 
about eighty years of age. The first lieutenant appeared to be 
someAA'hat his senior, and neither could see, even with the assist- 
ance of a very greasy and dirty binocular. The A^arious officers 
appeared to be vestiges from jN'oah's ark in point of antiquity ; 
thus a close shave Avitli a reef and a near rub with a strange 
A'essel Avere little incidents that might be expected in the Red 
Sea. 

AYe anchored safely in the harbour of Souakim, and landed 
my tAA^enty-one horses Avithout accident. 

I Avas met by the governor, my old friend Moomtazz Bey, a 
highly intelligent Circassian officer, AAdio had shoAvn me much 
kindness on my former expedition. 

A Aveek's delay in Soualvim Avas necessary to obtain camels. 
In fourteen days w^e crossed the desert 275 miles to Berber on 
the I^s'ile, and found a steamer and diahbeeah in readiness. Wg 
arrived at Khartoum, a distance of 200 miles by river, in three 



OHAP. II.] 



GOVERNMENT OF THE SOUDAN. 



11 



days, having accomplished the voyage from Suez in the short 
space of thirty-two days, including stopj^ages, 

Khartoum was not changed externally ; but I had observed 
with dismay a frightful change in the features of the country 
between Berber and the capital since my former visit. The rich 
soil on the banks of the river, which had a few years since been 
highly cultivated, was abandoned. Now and then a tufb of 
neglected date-palms might be seen, but the river's banks, 
formerly verdant with heavy crops, had become a wilderness. 
Villages once crowded had entirely disappeared; the population 
was gone. Irrigation had ceased. The night, formerly discordant 
with the creaking of countless water-T^^heels, Avas now silent as 
death. There was not a dog to howl for a lost master. Industry 
had vanished ; oppression had driven the inhabitants from the 
soil. 

This terrible desolation was caused by the governor-general of 
the Soudan, who, although himself an honest man, trusted too 
much to the honesty of others, who preyed upon the inhabitants. 
As a good and true Mohammedan, he left his territory to the 
care of God, and thus, trusting in Providence, he simply increased 
the taxes. In one year he sent to the Khedive his master 
£100,000 in hard dollars, wrung from the poor peasantry, who 
must have lost an equal amount in the pillage that accompanies 
the collection. 

The population of the richest province of the Soudan fled from 
oppression, and abandoned the country ; and the greater portion 
betook themselves to the slave trade of the White JNile, where, 
in their turn, they might trample upon the rights of others; 
where, as they had been plundered, they Avould be able to 
plunder ; where they could reap the harvest of another's labour; 
and where, free from the restrictions of a government, they 
might indulge in the exciting and lucrative enterprise of slave- 
hunting. Thousands had forsaken their homes, and commenced 
a life of brigandage on the White INile. 

This was the state of the country when I arrived at Khartoum. . 
The population of this town, which was about 30,000 during my 
former visit, was now reduced to half the number. The European 
residents had. all disappeared, with the exception of the Austrian 
Mission, and Mr. Hansall the Austrian Consul ; also an extremely 
tough German tailor, who was proof against the climate that 
had carried off his companions. 

I had given the necessary orders for vessels and supplies six 
months previous ; thus, I naturally expected to find a fleet ready 



12 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. II. 



for departure, with tlo 3 troops and stores waiting for instructions. 
To my surprise, I discovered that my orders had been so far 
neglected, that although the troops were at hand, there were no 
vessels prepared for transport. I was coolly informed by the 
governor-general that " it v>^as impossible to procure the number 
of vessels required, therefore he had purchased a house for me, 
as he expected that I should remain that year at Khartoum, and 
start in the following season." 

There literally was not one vessel ready for the voyage, in 
spite of the positive instructions that had been given. At the 
same time I found that the governor-general had just prepared a 
squadron of eleven vessels, with several companies of regular 
troops, for an expedition to the Bahr Gazal, where it was intended 
to form a settlement at the copper-mines on the frontier of Darfur. 
This expedition had been placed under the command of one of 
the most notorious ruffians and slave-hunters of the White iSTile. 
This man, Kutchuk Ali, originally of low extraction, had made 
a fortune in his abominable traffic, and had accordingly received 
promotion from the governor ; thus, at the same time that the 
Khedive of Egypt had employed me to suppress the slave trade 
of the jSTile, a government expedition had been intrusted to the 
command of one of the most notorious slave-hunters. 

I at once perceived that not only was my expedition unpopular, 
but that it would be seiiously opposed by all parties. The troops 
had been quartered for some months at Khartoum ; during this 
time the officers had been intimate with the principal slave- 
traders of the country. All were ISfohammedans — thus a coalition 
would be natural against a Christian who commanded an expedi- 
tion avowedly to annihilate the slave trade upon which Khartoum 
subsisted. 

It was a house divided against itself;" the Khedive in the 
north issued orders that would be neutralized in the distant south 
by his own authorities. 

As in the United States of America the opinion of the South 
upon the question of emancipation was opposed to that of the 
North, — the opposition in Soudan was openly avowed to the re- 
form believed to have been suggested to the Khedive by England. 

The season was already far advanced. There is no weapon so 
fatal as delay in the hands of Egyptians. I knew the intentions 
of the authorities Avere to procrastinate until the de^^arture of the 
expedition would become impossible. It was necessary to insist 
upon the immediate purchase of vessels which should have been 
prepared months before. 



OHAP. IT.] 



BEGIN TO WOUK. 



13 



I«rone of the steamers from Cairo liacl passed the cataracts. 
The fifteen large sloops upon which I had depended for the 
transport of camels had actually given up the attempt and 
returned to Cairo. Only the smaller vessels had mounted the 
cataracts, and they could not arrive at Khartoum for some months. 

The first division, consisting of all merchandise that I had 
sent from Cairo, had arrived in Khartoum under the charge 
of a Syrian to whom I had given the command. I heard that 
Mr. Higginbotham, accompanied, by Dr. Gedge and the English 
party, together with all the Egyptian mechanics, was on his way 
across the desert in charge of the steamers and machinery, carried 
by some thousand camels. The third division, brought up by 
Mr. Marcopolo, arrived from Souakim a few days later than 
ourselves, thus every arrangement that had been intrusted to 
my own ofiicers was Avell executed. 

After some pressure, the governor began to purchase the 
vessels. It may be imagined that a sudden necessity gave a 
welcome opportunity to certain officials. Old vessels were pur- 
chased at the price of new, and the government agent received a 
bribe from the owners to pass tlie vessels on survey. We were 
now fitting out under difficulties, and Avorking at a task that 
should have been accomplished months before. Sailcloth was 
scarce ; hempen ropes were rarities in Khartoum, where the 
wretched cordage was usually obtained from the leaves of the 
date-palm. The highest prices were paid for everything ; thus 
a prearranged delay caused an immense expense for the expedi- 
tion. I studiously avoided any purchases personally, but simply 
gave the necessary instructions to be executed by the governor. 
It is only fair to admit that he now worked hard, and took great 
interest in the outfit of the flotilla. This governor-general, 
Djiafifer Pacha, had formerly shown me much kindness on my 
arrival at Souakim, during my first journey in Africa. I had 
therefore reckoned upon him as a friend; but no personal 
considerations could palliate the secret hatred to the object of 
the expedition. 

From morning till night I was occupied in pushing on the 
work ; in this I was ably assisted by Lieutenant J. A. Baker, 
E.N"., whose professional experience was of much service. A 
new spirit seemed to move in Khartoum ; hundreds of men 
were at work ; a row of masts and yards rose up before the 
government house ; and in a few weeks we had thirty-three 
vessels of fifty or sixty tons each, caulked, rigged, and ready for 
the voyage of 1,450 miles to Gondokoro. 



ISMxVILIA. 



[chap. II. 



If the same energy had been shown some months ago, I should 
have found a fleet of fifty ships awaiting me. I had lost a month 
at Khartoum at a season when every day was precious. 

I reviewed the troops, about 1,400 infantry, and two batteries 
of artillery. The men were in fine condition, but I had no means 
of transport for the entire force. I therefore instructed Djiaffer 
Pacha to continue liis exertions in preparing vessels, so that on 
Dr. Higginbotham's arrival he might follow with the remaining 
detachment. 

I reviewed the irregular cavalry, about 250 horse. These were 
certainly veri/ irregular. Eacli man was horsed and armed 
according to his individual notion of a troo]3er's requirements. 
There were lank, half-starved horses ; round short horses ; very 
small ponies ; horses that were all legs ; others that were all 
heads ; horses that had been groomed ; horses that had never 
gone through that operation. The saddles and bridles were only 
fit for an old curiosity shop. There were some with faded strips 
of gold and silver lace adhering here and there ; others that 
resembled the horse in skeleton appearance, which had been 
strengthened by strips of raw crocodile skin. The unseemly liuge 
shovel-stirrups were rusty; the bits were filthy. Some of the 
men had swords and pistols ; others had short blunderbusses 
with brass barrels ; many had guns of various patterns, from the 
long old-fashioned Arab to the commonest double-barrelled 
French gun that was imported. The costumes varied in a like 
manner to the arms and animals. 

Having formed in line, they now executed a brilliant charge 
at a supposed enemy, and performed many feats of valour in 
dense clouds of dust, and having quickly got into inconceivable 
confusion^ they at length rallied and returned to their original 
position. 

I complimented their officer ; — and having asked the governor 
if these brave troops represented my cavalry force, and being 
assured of the fact, I dismissed them ; and requested Djiaffer 
Pacha to inform them that " I regretted the want of transport 
would not permit me the advantage of their services. ' Inshallah ! ' 
(Please God !) at some future time," &c., &c, 

I thus got rid of my cavalry, which I never wished to see 
again. I had twenty-one good horses that I had brought from 
Cairo, and these together with the horses belonging to the 
various officers were as much as we could convey. 

The flotilla was ready for the voyage. We had engaged 
sailors with the greatest difficulty, as a general stampede of 



LIEUT.-COLONEL ABD-EL-KADER. 



I 

CHAP. II.] AN OFFICIAL FAREWELL. 15 

boatmen liad taken place. Every one ran from Khartoum to 
avoid tlie expedition. 

This Avas a dodge of the slave-traders, who had incited the 
people to escape from any connection with such an enterprise. 
It was supposed that without boatmen we should be unable to 
start. 

The police authorities were employed, and by degrees the 
necessary crews were secured, — all unwilling, and composed of 
the worst material. 

I had taken the jDrecaution of selecting from the tvv^o regiments 
a body-guard of forty-six men. Their numbers were equal black 
and white, as I considered this arrangement might excite an 
esprit tie corps, and would in the event of discontent prevent a 
coalition. 

The men having been well chosen were fine examples of 
physique, and being armed with the snider rifle and carefully 
drilled, such a body of picked troops would form a nucleus for 
further development, and might become a dependable support in 
any emergency. This corps was commanded by an excellent 
officer, my aide-de-camp, Lieut. -Colonel Abd-el-Kader, but owing 
to the peculiar light-fingered character of the men, I gave it the 
name of " The Forty Thieves." 

Eventually the corps became a model of morality, and was 
distinguished for valour and fidelity throughout the expedition. 

Six months' rations were on board for all hands, in addition 
to the general stores of corn, and cases, bales, &c., innumerable. 

On the 8th February, 1870, the bugles announced the de^^arture. 
The troops hurried on board their respective transports according 
to the numbers painted on their sides and sails. The official 
parting was accomplished. I had had to embrace the governor, 
then a black pacha, a rara avis in terris, and a whole host of 
beys, concluding the affecting ceremony with a very fat colonel 
whom my arms could not properly encircle, 

A couple of battalions lined the shore ; the guns fired the 
usual salute as we started on our vovage ; the flotilla, composed 
of two steamers, respectively of thirty-two and twenty-four horse- 
power, and thirty-one sailing vessels, AA^th a military force of 
about 800 men, got aAvay in tolerable order. The powerful cur- 
rent of the Blue Mle quickly sAvept us past Khartoum, and 
haAdng rounded the point, Ave steamed up the grand White Nile. 
The Avind blew very strong from the north, thus the entire fleet 
kept pace with the steamers, one of Avhich Avas toAving my diah- 
beeah, and the other that of the colonel, Raouf Bey. Thar.k 



16 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. 11. 



God we were off; tlius all intrigues were left behind, and the 
future would be under my own command. 

On reference to my journal, I find the following entry upon 
8th February, 1870 :— 

jVIr. Higginbotham, who has safely arrived at Berber with 
the steel steamers in sections for the Albert IST'yanza, will, I trust, 
be provided with vessels at Khartoum, according to my orders, 
so as to follow me to Gondokoro with supplies, and about 350 
troojis with four guns. 

"My original programme — agreed to by his Highness the 
Khedive, who ordered the execution of my orders by the author- 
ities — arranged that six steamers, fifteen sloops, and fifteen diah- 
beeahs, should leave Cairo on lOtli June, to ascend the cataracts 
to Khartoum, at which place Djiafier Pacha was to prepare three 
steamers and twenty-five vessels to convey 1,650 troops, together 
with transport animals and supplies. 

" The usual Egyptian delays have entirely thwarted my plans. 
jN'o vessels have arrived from Cairo, as they only started on 29th 
August. Thus, rather than turn back, I start with a mutilated 
expedition, without a single transjjort anlmaV 

Having minutely described the White jN'ile in a former work, 
" The Albert X'yanza," I shall not repeat the description. In 
103 hours and ten minutes' steaming we reached Fashoda, the 
government station in the Shillook country, jST. lat. 9° 52', 618 
miles by river from Khartoum. 

This town had been fortified by a wall and flanking towers 
since I had last visited the White l!^"ile, and it was garrisoned by 
a regiment of Egyptian soldiers. Ali Bey, the governor, was a 
remarkably handsome old man, a Kurd. He assured me that the 
Shillook country was in excellent order ; and that according to 
the instructions received from the Khedive he had exerted him- 
self against the slave trade, so that it was impossible for vessels to 
pass the station. 

Eashoda was well situated for this purpose, as it completely 
dominated the river ; but I much doubted my friend's ve- 
racity. 

Having taken on board a month's rations for all hands, we 
started ; and, with a strong breeze in our favour, we reached the 
Sobat junction on 16th February, at 12.30 p.m. 

There we took in fresh water, as that of the Sobat is superior 
to the White Xile. At this season the river was about eight feet 
below the level of the bank. The water of the Sobat is yellowisli, 
and it colours tliat of the White Nile for a great distance. By 



C!HAJ?. II.] 



OEIGIN OF THE SOBA^r. 



dead reckoning I made the Sobat junction 684 miles by river 
from Khartoum. 

When I saw the Sobat, iu the first week of January 1863, it was 
bank-full. The current is very powerful, and when I sounded in 
various places during my former voyage, I found a depth of twenty- 
six to twenty-eight feet. The volume of water brought to the 
Nile by this river is immense, and the power of the stream is so 
superior to that of the White I^Tile, that as it arrives at right 
angles, the waters of the Mle are banked up. The yellow water 
of the Sobat forms a distinct line as it cuts through the clear 
water of the main river, and the floating rafts of vegetation 
brought down by the White jSTilo, instead of continuing their 
voyage, are headed back, and remain helplessly in the backwater. 
The sources of the Sobat are still a mystery ; but there can be no 
doubt that the principal volume must be water of mountain 
origin, as it is coloured by earthy matter, and is quite unlike the 
marsh water of the White Nile. The expeditions of the slave- 
hunters have ascended the river as far as it is navigable. At 
that point seven different streams converge into one channel, 
which forms the great river Sobat. It is my opinion that some 
of these streams are torrents from the Gall a country, while others 
are the continuation of those southern rivers which have lately 
been crossed by the slave-hunters between the second and third 
degrees of 'N. latitude. 

The White Nile is a grand river between the Sobat junction 
and Khartoum, and after passing to the south of the great affluent 
the difference in the character is quickly perceived. We now 
enter upon the region of immense flats and boundless marshes, 
through which the river winds in a labyrinth-like course for 
about 750 miles to Gondokoro. 

Having left the Sobat, we arrived at the junction of the Bahr 
Giraffe, thirty-eight miles distant, at 11 a.m. on 17th February. 
W e turned into the river, and waited for the arrival of the fleet. 

The Bahr Giraffe was to be our new passage instead of the 
original V/liite Nile. That river, which had become so curiously 
obstructed by masses of vegetation that had formed a solid dam, 
already described by me in " The Albert N'yanza," had been 
entirely neglected by the Egyptian authorities. In consequence 
of this neglect an extraordinary change had taken place. The 
immense number of floating islands which are constantly passing 
down the stream of the White Nile had no exit, thus they were 
sucked under the original obstruction by the force of the stream, 
which passed through some mysterious channel, until tho sub- 





18 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. 11. 



terraneau passage became choked with a wondrous accumulation 
of vegetable matter. The entire river became a marsh, beneath 
which, b}' the great pressure of water, the stream oozed through 
innumerable small channels. In fact, the White l^ile had dis- 
appeareil. A vessel arriving from Khartoum in her ppssage to 
Gondokoro would find, after passing through a broad river of clear 
¦^^'ater, that her bow Avould suddenly strike against a bank of soKd 
compressed vegetation — this was the natural dam th?,t had been 
formed to an unkno^vn extent : the river ceased to exist. 

It may readil}^ be imagined that a dense spongy mass which 
completely closed the river would act as a filter : thus, as the 
water charged vrith muddy particles arrived at the dam where 
the stream was suddenly checked, it w^ould deposit all impurities 
as it oozed and percolated slowly through the tangled but com- 
pressed mass of vegetation. This deposit quickl}^ created mud- 
banks and shoals, which eftectuall}" blocked the original bed of 
the river. The reedy vegetation of the -country immediately took 
root upon these favourable conditions, and the rapid growth in a 
tropical climate may be imagined. That which had been the 
river bed was converted into a solid marsh. 

This terrible accumulation had been increasing for five or six 
years, therefore it is impossible to ascertain or even to speculate 
upon the distance to which it might extend. The slave-traders 
had been obliged to seek another rout, which they had found via 
the Bahr Girafte, which rivcr had proved to be merely a brancli 
of the White jS'ile, as I had suggested in my former work, and 
not an independent river. 

I was rather anxious about this new route, as I had heard 
conflicting accounts in Khartoum concerning the possibility of 
navigating such large vessels as the steamers of thirty-tvro horse- 
power and a hundred feet length of deck. I was provided with 
guides who professed to be thoroughly acquainted with the river; 
these people were captains of trading vessels, who had made the 
voyage frequently. 

On IStli February, at 10 a.m., the rear vessels of the fleet 
arrived, and at 11.40 a.m. the steanjers worked up against the 
strong current indejjendently. Towing was difficult, owing to 
the sharp turns of the river. The Eahr Girafi'e was about seventy 
yards in width, and at this season the banks were high and dry. 
Throughout tlie voyage on the White ]S"ilc we had had excellent 
wild-fowl shooting whenever we had halted to cut fuel for the 
steamers. One afternoon I killed a hippopotamus, two crocodiles, 
and two pelicans, with the rifle. At the mouth of the Balir 



CHAP. 11.] THE BAIIR GIUAFFE. 



10 



Giraffe I Ijagged twenty-two clucks at a right and left shot with 
a ISTo. 10-shot gun. 

As the fleet now slowly sailed against tlie strong current of 
the I3ahr Giraffe, I walked along the bank with Lieutenant 
Eaker, and shot ten of the large francolin partridge, vs'hich in 
this dry season were very numerous. The country Avas as usual 
flat, but bearing due south of the Bahr Giraffe junction, about 
twelve miles distant, is a low granite hill, partially covered with 
trees ; this is the first of four similar low hills that are the only 
rising points above the vast i3rairie of flat plain. 

As we were walking along the bank I perceived an animal 
ascending from the river, about two hundred yards distant, Avherc 
it had evidently been drinking : we immediately endeavoured to 
cut off its retreat, wdien it suddenly emerged from the grass and 
discovered a fine lion with large sliaggy mane. The king of 
beasts, as usual, Avould not stand to show fight in the open, but 
bounded off in the direction of the rocky hills. 

It will be necessary to give a few extracts from my journal to 
convey an exact idea of the Bahr Giraffe. The river was very 
deep, averaging about nineteen feet, and it flowed in a winding 
course, through a perfectly flat country of prairie, diversified 
with forest — all of which, although now dry, had the appearance 
of being flooded during the rainy season : — 

" Fehruary 23. — Steamed from 6 a.m. till 7 p.m. Vast treeless 
marshes in wet season — now teeming with waterfowl : say fifty 
miles accomplished to-day through the ever-Avinding river. The 
wood from the last forest is inferior, and v^e liave only sufiicient 
fuel for five hours left upon the steamer. The diahl^eeali in tow 
carries about twenty hours' fuel : thus, should we not arrive at 
some forest in twenty-five hours, we shall be helpless. 

"The river was exceedingly narrow about fifteen miles from 
our starting-point this morning. The stream Avas strong but 
deep, flowing through the usual tangled grass, but divided into 
numerous small channels and backwaters that render the navi- 
gation difficult. 

" In this spot the river is quite bank -full, and tlie scattered 
native villages in the distance are in SAvamps. TJie innumerable 
high AAdiite ant-hills are the only dry spots. 

''Fehruary 24. — Started at G a.m. Everybody eaten up by 
mosquitoes. At 9 a.:-i. the steamer smashed her starboard 
paddle : the Avhole day occupied in repairing. SaAV a bull 
elephant in the marshes at a distance. Horrible treeless SAvamps 
swarming Avith mosquitoes. 

c 2 



20 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. II. 



February 25. — Started at 7 a.m. At 10 a.m. arrived at a 
very narrow and sliallow portion of tins chaotic river completely 
choked by drift vegetation. All hands worked hard to clear a 
passage through this obstruction until 2.30, M'hen we passed 
ahead. At 4 p.m. we arrived at a similar obstacle; the water 
very shallow; and to-morrow wo shall have to cut a passage 
through the high grass, beneath which there is deejDer water. I 
ordered fifty swords to be sharpened for the work. We counted 
seventy elephants in the di^?tance, but there is no possibility of 
reaching them through the immense area of floating vegetation. 

Fehruary 2G.- — -Ilard at work with forty men cutting a canal 
about 150 yards long through the dense mass of compressed 
vegetation. 

Februarij 11 . — Yrorking hard at canal. The fleet has not 
arrived ; thus we are short-handed. 

Felrwiry 28. — The caual progTesses, the men having worked 
well. It is a curious collection of trash that seriously impedes 
navigation. The grass resembles sugar-canes ; this grows from 
twenty to thirty feet in length, and throws out roots at every 
joint ; thus, when matted together, its roots still increase, and 
render the mass a complete tangle. Paring the wet season the 
rush of water tears off large rafts of this floating water-grass^ 
which accumulate in any favourable locality. The difficulty of 
clearing a passage is extreme. After cutting out a large mass 
Avith sv.'ords, a roj^e is made fast, and the raft is towed out by 
hauling with thirty or forty men until it is detached and floated 
down the stream. Yesterday I cut a narrow channel from above 
stream in the hope that the rush of water would loosen the mass 
of vegetation. A^fter much labour, at 12.30 p.m. the whole 
obstruction appeared to heave. There was soon no doubt that 
it was moving, and suddenly the entire dam broke up. Immense 
masses were carried away by the rush of water and floated down 
tlie river ; these will, I fear, cause an obstruction lower down 
the stream. 

a We got up steam, served out grog to all the men, and started 
at 2 P.M. In lialf-an-hour's steaming we arrived at another block 
vegetation. In one hour and three-quarters we cleared a joassage, 
and almost immediately afterwards we arrived at the first piece 
of dry ground that we have seen for days. This jnece of firm 
land was a few feet higher than the maximum rise of the river, 
and afforded about half an acre. AYo stopped for the night. 

March 1. — Started at G.30 a.m., the river narrowing imme- 
diately, and after a run of half a mile we found oiu'selves caught 



CHAP. II.] 



COMPLETELY STOPPED. 



21 



in a trap. The river, altliougli fourteen feet deep, had entirely- 
disappeared in a boundless sea of high grass, which resembled 
sugar-canes. There was no possibility of progress. I returned 
to our halting-place of last night in a small rowing-boat, and 
examined it thoroughly. I found marks of occupation by the 
slave-traders, about three months old. Among the vestiges were 
the remains of fires, a piece of a lucifer- match box, a number of 
cartridge cases — they had been fired^ — and a piece of raw hide 
pierced with bullets, that had evidently been used as a target. 

" I shot two geese and five plover, and returned to our vessel. 
My opinion is that the slave-hunters have made a razzia inland 
from this spot, but that our guide, Bedawi, has led us into a 
wrong channel. 

"I attempted to seek a passage ahead, but it was quite 
impossible for the smallest rowing boat to penetrate the dense 
vegetation. 

" An advance being impossible, I ordered the steamer and two 
diahbeeahs to return down the river about eighty miles to our 
old wooding-place at the last forest, as we are nearly out of fuel. 
We thus lose time and trouble, but there is no help for it. For 
some days there has been no wind, except uncertain breaths 
from the south. Unless a change shall take place, I have no 
idea how the fleet will be able to come up against the stream. 

^' March 2. — At 6.30 a.m. we got under Avay and ran down 
stream at eight miles an hour towards our old wooding-place. 
Saw a few bufi'aloes. At 1 p.m. we passed on left bank a branch 
of the river. At 3.30 sighted the tall yards of the lleet in the 
distance. At 4.30 we arrived at the extreme southern limit of 
the forest, and met Eaouf Bey with the steamer' and twenty-five 
vessels, with a good supply of wood. The troops were in good 
health, but one unfortunate man had been carried off by a 
crocodile while sitting on the vessel with his legs hanging over 
the side. 

" March 3. — Filling up with wood from the forest. 
March 4. — Sent the steamer back to the station of Kutchuk 
Ali, the trader, to procure some cattle for the troo]3S. In this 
neighbourhood there is dry land with many villages, but the 
entire country has been pillaged by Kutchuk All's people — the 
natives murdered, the women carried off, &c. 

''Eaouf Bey counted the bodies of eighteen natives Vvdio had 
been shot near the trader's camj). Yesterday I went to a native 
village, and made friends with the people, some of whom came 
<iowu to our boats ; they complained bitterly that they were 



22 



IS3IAILIA. 



[chap. II. 



subject to pillage and massacre by tlie traders. These so-called 
traders are tlie people of Kiitcliiik Ali, the officer employed by tlie 
governor-general of the Soudan to command his expedition to the 
Bahr Gazal ! 

"Filled lip vritli a large supply of wood ready to start to- 
morrow. 

March 5. — Great good fortune ! A fine north wind for the 
first time during many days. All the vessels sailing well. We 
started at 7 a.m. Saw a Balenieeps Ilex ; this is the second of 
these rare birds that I have seen.^ 

"At 1 P.M., as we were steaming easily, I happened to be 
asleep on the poop-deck, when I was suddenly awakened by a 
shock, succeeded almost immediately by the cry, 'The ship's 
sinking ! ' A hippopotamus had charged the steamer from the 
bottom, and had smashed several floats off her starboard paddle. 
A few seconds later he charged our diahbeeah, and striking her 
bottom about ten feet from the bow, lie cut two holes through 
the iron plates with his tusks. There Avas no time to lose, as 
the water was rushing in with great force. Fortunately, in this 
land of marsh and floating grass, there were a few feet of toler- 
ably firm ground rising from the deep water. Running along- 
side, all hands were hard at work discharging cargo with great 
rapidity, and baling out with every conceivable utensil, until we 
obtained assistance from the steamer, whose large hand-pump 
and numerous buckets at length so far overcame the rush of 
water, that we could discover the leaks. 

"AYe now found two clean holes punched through the iron as 
though driven by a sharp jDickaxe. Some hours were occupied 
in repairing the damage by plastering white lead upon some 
thick felt ; this was placed over the holes, and small pieces of 
j^lank being laid over the felt, they were secured by an upright 
piece of timber tightened with wedges from a cross-beam. The 
leaks were thus effectually and permanently stopped. 

" By sunset all was completed and the vessel reloaded ; but I 
sent twenty-eight boxes of snider ammunition on board the 
tender. This miserable wood tender has sprung her yard so 
that she cannot carry sail. The day was entirely lost together 
with a fine north wind. 

March 6. — Brisk wind from the north. Started at 5.45 

^ Tlie whale-lieaded stork, or Baleniceps Rex, is only met with in the 
immense swamps of the AVhite Nile. This bird feeds generally upon water 
shell Hsh, for which uatnre has provided a most powerful beak armed Avitli 
a hook at the extremity. 



CHAP. II.] CUTTING A CAKiL. 23 

A.M., but at 7 A.M. sometliing liappeiied to the engine, and the 
steamer stopped until eight. After frequent stoppages, owing 
to the sharp bends in the narrow river, we arrived at the spot 
where we had formerly opened the dam ; there the current ran 
like a rapid. 

March 7. — Much difficulty in ascending the river, but upon 
arrival at the dry ground (called the 'dubba'), we found the 
!N"o. 8 steamer and the whole fleet assembled, with the exception 
of six that are in sight. 

" Marclh 8. — The other vessels arrived ; I have thus thirty- 
four sail, including the two steamers. The entire country is 
swamp, covered with immensely high water-grass, beneath which 
the depth is considerable. The reputed main channel of the 
river is supposed to come from S.W., this is only denoted by a 
stream three or four feet broad, concealed by high grass, and in 
places choked by the Pistia Stratiotes. These surface plants, 
Avhich resemble floating cabbages with fine thready roots, like a 
human beard of sixteen inches in length, form dense masses 
which are very difficult to clear 

Our guides are useless, as we cannot depend upon their con- 
tradictory statements. We are in a deplorable position — the 
whole fleet in a cul-de-sac : the river lias disappeared ; an un- 
known distance of apparently boundless marsh lies before us ; 
there is no wood, and there is no possibility of moving without 
cutting a channel. 

" I have ordered thirty vessels to form in line, single flle, and 
to cut a canal. 

''March 9. — The men worked famously, but I much fear 
they will be laid up with fever if kept at such an unhealthy task. 
To-day a force of 700 men cut about a mile and a half. They 
are obliged to slash through with swords and knives, and then 
to pull out the greater portion of the grass and vegetable trash ; 
this is piled like artificial banks on either side upon the thick 
floating surface of vegetation. I took a small boat and pushed 
on for a mile and a half. I found a very narrow stream, like a 
small brook, which gave hopes of lighter labour for to-morrow. 
I. shall therefore try to force the steamer through. Thirty-two 
men reported on the sick list this evening. 

"March 10. — A fine north wind for about half-an-hour, when 
it suddenly chopped round to the S.E. We cut on far ahead, so 
that I was able to push on the steamers and the whole fleet for 
a distance of about five miles. I had a touch of fever. 

"March 11. — Frightful stinking morass. All stopped at a 



24 



ISMAILlA. 



[OHAP. II. 



black muddy pond iii the swamp. Tlie river is altogether lost. 
We have to cut a passage through the morass. Hard -work 
throughout the day. One soldier died of sunstroke. No ground 
in which to bury him. 

" It is a curious but most painful fact that the entire White 
ISTile has ceased to be a navigable river. The boundless plains 
of marsh are formed of floating rafts of vegetation compressed 
into firm masses by the pressure of water during floods. So 
serious is this obstacle to navigation, that unless a new channel 
can be discovered, or the original Xile be reopened, the centre 
of Africa will be entirely shut out from communication, and all 
my projects for the improvement of the country will be ruined 
by this extraordinary impediment. 

" March 12. — I think I can trace by telescope the fringe of 
tall papyrus rush that should be the border of the White Mle ; 
but this may be a delusion. The wind is S.W., dead against 
us. Many men are sick owing to the daily work of clearing a 
channel through the poisonous marsh. This is the Mahom- 
medan festival of the Hadj, therefore there is little work to- 
day. 

" March 13. — Measured 460 yards of apparently firm marsh, 
through which we plumbed the depth by long poles thrust to 
the bottom. 

"Flowing water being found beneath, I ordered the entire 
force to turn out and cut a channel, ^vhich I myself superin- 
tended in the advance boat. 

" By 6 P.M. the canal was completed, and the wind having 
come round to the north, we sailed through the channel and 
entered a fine lake about half a mile wide, followed by the 
whole fleet with bugles and drums sounding the advance, the 
troops vainly hoping that their work was over. The steamers 
are about a mile behind, and I have ordered their paddles to be 
dismounted to enable them to be towed through the high grass 
in the narrow channel. 

March 14. — At 6 a.m. I started and surveyed the lake in a 
small rowing boat, and found it entirely shut in and separated 
from another small lake by a mass of dense rotten vegetation 
about eighty yards in width. I called all hands, and cleared it 
in fifty-five minutes sufficiently to allow the fleet to pass through. 
Upon an examination of the next lake, I found, to my intense 
disappointment, that not only was it closed in, but there was no 
outlet visible even from the mast-head. Not a drop of water 
>vas to be seen ahead, and the entire country was a perfect chaos, 



OUAP. II.] 



THE PROLYPTERUS. 



25 



where the spirit of God apparently had not yet moved upon the 
waters. There was neither earth nor clear water, nor any solid 
resting-place for a human foot. J^ow and then a solitary bittern 
rose from the marsh, but, beyond a few water-rails, there were 
no other bu'ds. The grass was swarming with snakes, and also 
with poisonous ants that attacked the men, and greatly inter- 
fered with the work. 

"It is easier to clear a passage through the green grass than 
through the rotten vegetation. The former can be rolled in 
heaps so as to form banks, it is then secured by tying it to the 
strong grass growing behind it ; the rotten stuff has no adher- 
ence, and a channel closes up almost as fast as it is made, thus 
our labour does no permanent good. I am in great anxiety 
about Mr. Higginbotham ; it will be impossible for him to 
proceed by this route, should ho arrive with a comparatively 
small force and heavily-laden vessels. 

"As the channel closes so rapidly, I must wait until the 
steamers can form a compact line with the fleet. 

"The black troops have more spirit than the Egyptians, but 
they are not so useful in clearing channels, as they are bad 
swimmers. They discovered to-day a muddy spot where they 
had a great hunt for fish, and succeeded in capturing with their 
hands about 500 pounds Aveight of the Prolypterus, some of 
which were above four pounds. We caught for ourselves a 
number of very delicious boulti {Perca Nilotica) with a casting- 
net. 

March 15. — Having probed the marsh with long poles, I 
found deep water beneath, which denoted the course of the 
sub-vegetal stream. All hands at work, and by the evening 
we had cut a channel 300 yards in length. The marsh swarms 
with snakes, one of which managed to enter the cabin win- 
dow of the diahbeeah. The two steamers, now far astern, have 
become choked by a general break up and alteration of their 
portion of the world. The small lake in which I left them is 
no longer open water, but has become a dense mass of com- 
pressed vegetable rafts, in whicli the steamers are jammed as 
though frozen in an ice-drift in the Arctic regions ! There is 
much work required to clear them. The only chance of progress 
will b3 to keep the entire fleet in compact line so as to push 
through a new channel as quickly as it is made. I shall send 
back the wood tender, if possible, from this spot with a letter to 
stop Mr. Higginbotham should he be south of the Sobat, as it 
will be impossible for him to proceed until next season. Many 



28 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. II. 



of the men are sick witli fever, and if tins horrible country 
should continue, the}'- -will all sicken. 

" March 16. — I went back in a rowing boat, accompanied by 
Lieutenant Baker, to the two steamers which we found stuck 
fast in the drift rafts, that had closed in upon them. Many 
men are sick — all are dispirited ; and they worked badly. 
Having worked all day, we returned at G..30 p.m, to my diah- 
beeah, having the good fortune to shoot seven clucks by a 
family shot upon a mud bank on the way home. 

I found that the main body under the colonel, Eaouf Bey, 
liad completed the channel about 900 yards long to lake I^^o. 3. 
I ordered sail to be made immediatel}^, and after five hours' hard 
"svork, as the channel was alread}^ beginning to close, we arrived 
in the open lake at 11.45 p.m., in whicli we found the fleet at 
anchor. 

March 17. — The lake is about 2 J miles long, and varies from 
150 to 300 yards in width, with a mean depth of ten feet. I 
sent men ahead in the boat to explore the exit ; they noAV report 
it to be closed by a small dam, after whicli vre shall enter 
another lake. Thunder and clouds threatening in the south- 
east. 

" About half-an-hour before sunset I observed the head of a 
hippopotamus emerge from the bank of high grass that fringed 
the lake. My troops had no meat — thus I would not lose the 
opportunity of procuring, if possible, a supply of hippopotamus 
beef. I took a Eeilly Xo. 8 breechloader, and started in the 
little dingy belonging to the diahbeeah. Having paddled cjuietly 
along the edge of the grass for a couj^le of hundred yards, I 
arrived near the spot from which the hippopotamus had 
emerged. 

"It is the general habit of the hippopotami in these marsh 
districts to lie in the high grass swamps during the day, and to 
swim or amuse themselves in the open water at sunset. 

^' I had not waited long before I heard a snort, and I perceived 
the hippopotamus had risen to the surface about fifty yards from 
me. This distance was a little too great for the accurate firing 
necessary to reach the brain, especially when the shot must be 
taken from a boat, in which there is always some movement. I 
therefore allowed the animal to disappear, after whicli I imme- 
diately ordered the boat forward, to remain exactly over the spot 
where he had sunk. A few minutes elapsed, when the great ugly 
head of the hippopotamus appeared about thirty paces from the 
boat, and having blown the water from liis nostrils, and snorted 



CHAP. II.] 



EXPLOSIVE SHELL. 



27 



loudly, he turned round and seemed astonished to find the soli- 
tary little boat so near him. Telling the two boatmen to sit per- 
fectly quiet, so as to allow a good sight, I aimed just below the 
eye, and fired a heavy shell, which contained a bursting charge 
of three drachms of fine-grained powder. The head disappeared. 
A little smoke hung over the water, and I could not observe 
other effects. The lake was deep, and after vain sounding for 
the body with a boathook, I returned to the dialibeeah just as it 
became dark. 

^' March 18. — A heavy shower of rain fell, which lasted for an 
hour and a half. When the rain ceased, the day continued cloudy 
with variable wind. The body of the hippopotamus was dis- 
covered at daybreak floating near us, therefore all hands turned 
out- to cut him up, delighted at the idea of fresh meat. There 
was about an acre of high and dry ground that bordered the marsh 
in one spot ; to this the carcase of the hippopotamus was towed. 
I was anxious to observe the effects of the explosive shell, as it 
was an invention of my own that had been manufactured by Mr. 
Reilly, the gunmaker, of London. ^ This shell was composed 
of iron, covered with lead. The interior was a cast-iron bottle 
(similar in shape to a stoneware Seltzer water bottle) ; the neck 
formed a nipple to receive a percussion-cap. The entire bottle 
was concealed by a leaden coating, which was cast in a mould to 
fit a N"o. 8, or two-ounce rifle. The iron bottle contained three 
drachms of the strongest gunpowder, and a simple cap pressed 
down upon the nipple prepared the shell for service. 

''On an examination of the head of the hippopotamus, I 
found that the shell had struck exactly beneath the eye, where 
the bone plate is thin. It had traversed the skull, and had appar- 
ently exploded in the brain, as it had entirely carried away the 
massive bone that formed the back of the skull. The velocity 
of the projectile had carried the fragments of the shell onwards 
after the explosion, and had formed a sort of tunnel which 
was blackened with burnt powder for a considerable distance 
along the flesh of the neck. I was quite satisfied with my explosive 
shell. 

"The hippopotamus having been divided among the men, I 
sent Eaouf Bey with a large force to assist the steamers, which 
still remain fixed in the same spot. 

" At 2 P.M. it poured with rain until 9 p.m. Everything is 

^ Mr. Reilly, of 502 New Oxford Street, has been most successful in 
heavy rifles, with which he has supplied me in both my African expeditions. 



28 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. II. 



soaking ; and I have great anxiety about our large stores of 
corn. 

March 19. — Fine day, but all cargo, stores, &c., are wet. 
The miserable vessels of the Soudan are without decks, thus one 
heavy shower creates much damage. The men are busy drying 
their clothes, &c. Two soldiers died. Steamers far astern in the 
sudd, regularly fixed. 

j^farch 20. — A boy died. I sent fresh men to the assistance 
of the steamers, which have to be literally dug out. 

''March 21. — Yesterday as the men were digging out the 
steamers, which had become blocked by the floating rafts, they 
felt something struggling beneath their feet. They immediately 
scrambled away in time to avoid the large head of a crocodile 
that broke its way through the tangled mass in which it had 
been jammed and held prisoner by the rafts. The black soldiers, 
armed with swords and bill-hooks, immediately attacked the cro- 
codile, who, although freed from imprisonment, had not exactly 
fallen into the hands of the Eoyal Humane Society. He was 
quickly des^^atched, and that evening his flesh gladdened the 
cooking-pots of the Soudani regiment. 

" I was amused with the account of this adventure given by 
various officers who were eye-witnesses. One stated in reply to 
iwY question as to the length of the animal, ' Well, sir, I should 
not like to exaggerate, but I should say it was forty-five feet long 
from snout to tail I ' Another witness declared it to be at least 
twenty feet ; but by rigid cross-examination I came to the con- 
clusion that it did not exceed ten, 

" The steamers and tender, having been released, arrived this 
morning. At 1 p.m. we started with a light air from the north- 
east, and travelled till 3.30 p.m. along the lake, which narrowed 
to the dimensions of a moderate river. We at length arrived at 
a sudd which the advance boats had cleared for about sixty 
yards. Having emerged, we were introduced to a deep but ex- 
tremely narrow channel flowing through the usual enormous 
grass. 

" The whole fleet ranged in single line to widen the passage. 
We are now about twelve miles from the dubba, or raised dry 
ground, near to which we first commenced clearing. We have 
actually cut away about six miles of vegetation. jSTo dependence 
whatever can bo placed ui^on the guides : no place answers to 
their descriptions. We have now been hard at work for thirteen 
days witli a thousand men, during which time we have travelled 
only twelve miles ! 



CllAP. li.] 



GENERAL SICKNESS. 



^9 



" March 22. — Wind S.W. — foul. The people are all lazy and 
despairing. Cleared a sndd. I explored ahead in a small boat. As 
usual, the country is a succession of sudds and small open patches 
of water. The work is frightful, and great numbers of my men 
are laid down with fever ; thus my force is physically diminished 
daily, while morally the men are heart-broken. Another soldier 
died ; but there is no dry spot to bury him. We live in a world 
of swamp and slush. Lieutenant Baker shot a Balem'ceps Rex. 
This day we opened about 600 yards. 

March 23. — We have been throughout the day employed in 
tugging the vessels through the cliannel. The Egyptians have 
quite lost heart. The Soudanis are far more valuable as soldiers ; 
none of them are ill, and they work with a good will. I serve 
them out a glass of grog in the evening. The fanatical fellahs 
will not touch spirits, thus they succumb to fever and nervous- 
ness when exhausted by the chill occasioned by worlving through- 
out the day in mud and water. 

" March 24.— Wind fresh from the S.W. All the vessels 
assembled last evening in a small lake. Before us there is as 
usual simply a narrow stream closed in by vegetation. I observed 
marks of the traders' parties.having broken through a few months 
ago. These people travel without merchandise, but Avith a large 
force of men : thus their vessels are of light draught of water. 
My steam.ers and many of the boats require four feet six inches. 
Every A'-essel is heavily laden, thus they are difficult to manage 
unless in open and deep water. 

There is to-day a forest on the east, about two miles distant, 
beyond the swamp. After a hard day's work we made about 
1,400 yards. 

" March 2 5. — Wind fair and fresh from the E. This helped 
us to make about a mile through the narrow channel, hemmed in 
by thick and high grass. Another soldier died. As usual, this 
poor fellow was an artilleryman. These men came direct from 
Cairo with their guns, and not being acclimatized, they cannot 
resist the fever. The Egyptian tj.'oops give in and lose all heart; 
but there is much allowance to be made for them, as it is a fear- 
ful country, and far beyond my worst experience. There is no 
apparent break to the boundless marsh before and behind us, 
this is about fifteen miles widc^ as forest trees and the tall dolape 
palms can sometimes be distinguislied upon the horizon. 

What the unfortunate Higginbotham Avill do I cannot con- 
ceive, as there is no possibility of communicating with him, and 
he wiU get into the rainy season. 



30 



ISMAILIA. 



[OIIAP. II. 



Anotlier soldier died this evening ; he was an excellent man, 
Avlio liad been employed at the arsenal at Cairo. His friend and 
bosom companion was a fellow-workman, and lie was so grieved 
at the loss that he declared he should not live beyond a few 
days. There was ]io t!ry ground in which to dig a grave ; it was 
therefore necessary to cut a hole in the base of a white ant-hill, 
as these Babel-like towers were the only dry spots that rose above 
the flood. 

"Tliis di'ath is the sixth within the last few days, exclusiA^e of 
one boy. I think our black doctor assists them in de2:»arting 
from this life, as they die very suddenly when he attends them. 
Like Dr. Sangrado, he is very fond of the lancet, which is usually 
fatal in this climate. We made about half a mile to-day. 

" 3farch 26. — Wind fresh from the S.E. The ditch is com- 
pletely blocked up with vegetation : thus we made only 250 
yards. Before us, as usual, is the hopeless sea of high grass, 
along which is a dark streak which marks the course of the ditch 
through which we slowdy clear a passage. How many dajs or 
months we may recjuire to reach the White N'ile is a problem. 
One hundred and hfty men are on the sick list ; nearly all of 
them are fellahs. Upon my ovv^n dialibeeali six soldiers out of 
ten are down with fever, in addition to two of the sailors. I 
gave them all a shock with the magnetic batteiy, which appeared 
to have a wonderful effect; one fellow, who had been groaniiig 
with severe pains in his back and limbs, declared that he M'HS 
instantly relieved. I made a good shot with the Dutchman at a 
Baloiiceps Rex, at a distance of upv\^ards of 200 yards. 

''There is no rest by night or day for our people, who are 
preyed upon by clouds of mosquitoes, v/hich attack like bull-dogs. 

March 27.— All hands hard at work clearing the ditch. 
Wind S.E. — fresh. The diahbeeah, as usual, leads the way, 
followed by l^o. 10 steamer, and the whole ileet in close line. 
]\Iost of the men suffer from headache; this is owing to the 
absurd covering, the fez, or tarboosh, which is no protection 
against the sun. 

" In the evening I took a small boat, and in fort^'^-onc minutes' 
poling and tugging through the narrovv^ channel, I succeeded in 
reaching a long narrow Like rescnnbling a river, about 110 ^-ards 
wide. The mouth of our elUuent was, for a wonder, clear from 
obstruction ; 1 returned with tlie joyful news to the fleet after 
sunset. 

March 28. — At 7.30 a.m. all hands turned out to clear the 
channel to the lake; this was about 500 yards long, and the 



OH.vr. II.] SHOOTING A HIPPOPOTAMUS. 



31 



diahbeeah^ leading the way, entered the lake at 11.30 a.m. 
Unfortunately a shallow channel near the entrance prevented the 
steamers from entering, thus a passage had to be dug in the tough 
clay beneath them. The wind strong from the south. I am 
afraid the north wind has deserted us for the season. 

" Having entered the lake, I went about a mile and a half 
ahead in niy dialibeeah, and anchored for the night in a broad 
and shallow portion of the water, a forest being about a mile 
distant on the east bank : this was a good sign of terra Jirma, 
but there was no dry spot upon which we could land. 

The river winds to the S.E,, and aj^parently then turns to 
the west. The effluent through which we joined this lake or 
river meets it at right angles, and the river continues its course 
to the N.l^l.W., as though it were the main channel of a far more 
important stream than the horrible ditch by which we arrived. 
The guide, however, assures me that it is blocked up, and loses 
itself in boundless grass and reeds. 

"In the evening I spied a hippopotamus which had just come 
out of the high grass into the open river. It snorted loudly at 
the strange sight of the handsomely-painted diahbeeah. I took 
the boat, and upon my near approach it was foolish enough to 
swim towards us angrily. A shot from the Reilly 'No. 8, with 
one of my explosive shells, created a lively dance, as the hippo- 
potamus received the message under the eye. Rolling over and 
over, with the legs frequently in the air, it raised waves that 
rocked my little boat and made shooting difficult ; but upon a 
close approach, taking good care to keep out of the reach of its 
struggles, I gave it a quietus with a hardened spl^erical ball 
from the same rifle, which passed right through the head. By 
sounding with the long boat-hook, I found the body at the 
bottom in about ten feet of water. J\ly excellent captain of the 
diahbeeah, Eaddul-Moolah, dived to the bottom, and secured the 
leg of the hippopotamus by a rope. "We towed it to the diahbeeah, 
from the deck of which my wife had liad a capital view of the 
sport. This is a fine feast for the peojjle. My explosive shell is 
frightful in its effects. 

March 29. — Wind strong from the south; the steamer is 
not yet out of difficulty. My men are busy cutting up the 
hippopotamus. I sent off the iron boat with three quarters of 
the animal to the troops astern. During the night a crocodile 
took away all the offal from the stern of the diahbeeah. The 
weather is much cooler, owing to the south wind and the clear 
space in which we are now anchored. 



32 



ISMAILIA, 



[chap, li. 



" March 30. — The river is now clear and unmistakable. We 
travelled about ten miles by poling ; this is the best day's 
work that we have made since we entered this chaotic region. 
Lieutenant Baker came on board my diahbeeah, having brought 
up the steamers. 

"The country began to look more hopeful. A forest at a few 
miles' distance on both the right and left bank of the river 
betokened dry land. The river flowed between actual honest 
banks, v>^hicli although only a few inches above the water were 
positive boundaries. The flat plain was covered Avith large white 
ant-hills, and the ground was evidently firm in the distance, as 
we could distinguish a herd of antelopes. 

" As we were quietly poling the diahbeeali against the sluggish 
stream, we observed wild buffaloes that, at a distance of about 
400 yards, appeared to bo close to the bank of the river. I 
accordingly stopped the diahbeeah, and, accompanied by Lieu- 
tenant Baker, I approached them in the small boat, rowed by 
two men. A fortunate bend of the river, and several clumps of 
high rushes, concealed the boat until by a sudden turn we came 
within sixty yards of two bull buffaloes. Having told Mr. 
Baker to take the first shot, he sent a spherical ]Sro. 8 through 
the shoulder of the nearest bull, which, after a few plunges, fell 
dead. The other, startled at the shot, dashed off" ; at the same 
time he received a shell from my rifle in the flank, and a shot 
from the left-hand barrel in the rear. AVith these shots he went 
off about three hundred paces, and lay down, as we thought, to 
die. I intended to stalk him from behind the white ant-hills, 
but my sailors, in intense excitement, rushed forward, supposing 
that his beef was their own, and although badly hit, he again 
rose and cantered oft' till lost in high rushes. 

''March 3L — As we proceeded, the banks became drier. The 
two steamers had arrived during the night, and the whole fleet is 
coming up astern. The river is now about fifty yards wide, but 
I am getting nervous about the depth ; the water is very shallow 
in some of the bends, and I fear there will be great difficulty in 
getting tlirough with the steamers and heavy vessels. Mj diah- 
beeah, which is of iron, although roomy, is exceedingly light, and 
only requires two feet three inches of water. We have been fifty- 
one da3^s from Khartoum. JSTeA'er have I known so miseralfle a 
vxynge. Wind fresh from the south." 



CHAP. III.] 



NEW ANTELOPE. 



33 



CHAPTEE III. 

THE EETREAT. 

April 1. — All the vessels are stuck fast for want of water! 
This is terrible. I went on in advance with my diahbeeah, 
accompanied by Mr. Baker, for about three miles to explore. 
Throughout this distance the greatest depth was about four feet, 
and the average Avas under three feet. At length the diahbeeah, 
which drew only two feet three inches, was fast aground ! This 
was at a point where tvfo raised mounds, or dubbas, were on 
opposite sides of the river. I left the vessel, and with Mr. 
Baker, I explored in the rowing boat for about two miles in 
advance. After the first mile, the boat grounded in about six 
inches of water upon firm sand. The river, after having deejJened 
for a short space, was suddenly divided into three separate 
channels, all of which were too shallow for the passage of the 
diahbeeah, and two were even too shallow to admit the small 
boat. The boatmen jumped out, and we hauled her up the 
shallows until v/e reached the main stream, above the three 
channels, which ran from the S.S.E., but having no greater mean 
depth than about two feet six inches. 

W e continued for some distance up the stream with the same 
unfortunate results. The banks, although flooded during the wet 
season, were now dry, and a forest was about a mile distant. 
Having left the boat and ascended a Avhite ant-hill, about eight 
feet high, in order to take a view of the country, I observed a 
herd of very beautiful antelopes, of a kind that were quite un- 
known to me. 

" By careful stalking on the flat plain from one ant-hill to 
another, I obtained a fair shot at about 140 yards, and killed. 
Both male and female have horns, therefore I found it diflicult 
to distinguish the sex at that distance. I was delighted with 
my prize ; it was a female, weighing, I should estimate, about 
twenty stone, clean. The hide was a deep reddish yellow, with 
black shoulders and legs, also black from the hind quarters down 
the hind legs. It belonged to the species Hvppotmgus, and had 
horns that curved backwards, something similar to the Hippo- 
tragus Niger, but much shorter. ^ 

^ Vide Appendix. This autelope, which I considered to be a new species, 
proved to be the Damalis Senegalensis of Western Africa. 



34 



ISMAILlA. 



[ciIAf . III. 



"We soon cut it into quarters, and carried it to the boat. 
This httle success in sport had cheered me for the moment ; but 
the happy excitement quickly passed away, and we returned to 
the diahbeeah C[uite disheartened. It is simply impossible to 
continue the voyage, as there is no means of fxoating the 
vessels. 

"To-morrow I shall explore the channel Xo. 3, which runs 
from the AV.S.AY. 

" Aj^ril 2. — I explored the west channel. This is very narrow, 
and overgrown with grass. After about a mile we arrived at a 
shallow place only two feet deep. The whole river is absolutely 
impracticable at this season. During the rains, and even to the 
end of December, when the river is full, the vessels could pass, 
but at no other time. All my labour has been useless, but it 
would be utterly absurd to attempt a further advance. I have 
therefore determined to return at once to the Shillook countrj^, 
and establish a station. Mr. Higginbotham and party will then 
unite with us, and I will collect the entire force from Khartoum, 
and start with the expedition complete in the end of Ji^ovember. 
Although I am grievously disappointed, I am convinced that 
this is the wisest course. During the rainy season the troops 
shall cultivate corn, and I shall explore the old White J^ile 
in a steamer, and endeavour to discover a navigable channel vici 
the original route by the Bahr Gazal. 

" I was obUged with a heavy heart to give the sad order to 
turn back ; at 3 p.m. we arrived at the assembled fleet. 

"I summoned all the officersj and in the presence of Eaouf 
Bey I explained the necessit3^ The vessels immediately com- 
menced the return voyage, all the officers and men being 
delighted at the idea of a retreat which they imagined would 
take them to Khartoum, and terminate the expedition; thus I 
had little sympathy. — However, I determined to make arrange- 
ments for the following season that would enable me to cut 
through every difficulty. I kept these intentions to myself, or 
only shared them with my wife and Lieutenant Baker. 

" Ajml 3. — Washed decks early, and sent off three soldiers, 
thus reducing the escort on the diahbeeah to seA^en men. 

" The entire fleet was in full retreat with wind and stream in 
faA^our. I would not permit the diahbeeah that had always led 
the advance to accompany them in the retreat; therefore I 
allowed them to push on ahead. 

" A shower of rain fell to-day ; also yesterday. 

" A few minutes after starling, both the steamers stack fast. As 



CHAP. III.] 



WHITE ANT-HILLS. 



35 



I Avas Avalkiiig the poop of the diahbeeah, I noticed with the tele- 
scope an antelope standing on tlie summit of an ant-hill about a 
mile and a quarter distant. There is no change so delightful as a 
little sport if you are in Igw spirits ; thus, taking the rifle, I roAved 
up the river for about half a mile in the small boat, and then land- 
ing, I obtained the right wind. It was exceedingly clifhcult to 
approach game in these extensive treeless fiats, and it would have 
been quite impossible, had it not been for the innumerable hills of 
the white ants ; these are the peculiar features of these swampy 
countries, and the intelligence of the insects directs their archi- 
tecture to a height far above the level of the highest floods. The 
earth used in their construction is the subsoil, brought up from 
a considerable depth, as the ant-hills are yellow, while the sur- 
face-soil is l3lack. The earth is first swallowed by the insect and 
thus it becomes mixed with some albuminous matter which 
converts it into a cement that resists the action of rain. These 
hills were generally about eight feet high in the swampy districts, 
but I have frequently seen them above ten feet. The antelopes 
make use of such ant-hills as watch towers, from which lofty 
position they can observe an enemy at a great distance. It is 
the custom of several varieties to place sentries while the herd is 
grazing, and upon this occasion, although the sentry was alone 
visible, I felt sure that the herd was somewhere in his neighbour- 
hood. I have noticed that the sentries are generally bulls. On 
this occasion I resolved, if possible, to stalk the v/atchman. I 
was shooting with a very accurate express rifle, a jSTo. 70 bore of 
Purdey's, belonging to my friend. Sir Edward Kerrison, who 
had kindly lent it to me as a favourite vreapon when I left 
England. The grass was very low, and quite green, as it had 
been fired by the v^andering natives some time since ; thus, in 
places there were patches of the tall withered herbage that had 
been only partially consumed by the fire while unripe : these 
patches Avere an assistance in stalking. 

" It was, of course, necessary to keep several tall ant-hills in a 
line Avith that upon Avhich the antelope was standing, and to 
stoop so low that I could only see the horns of the animal upon 
the sky-line. In some places it Avas necessary to craAAd upon the 
ground ; this Avas trying Avork, on account of the sharp stumps 
of the burnt herbage Avhicli punished the hands and knees. The 
fine charcoal dust from the recent fire Avas also a trouble, as the 
AA^nd blcAV it into the eyes. The AA^ater-mark upon the ant-hills 
was about eighteen inches above the base, proving the height of 
the annual floods; and a vast number of the large Avater helix, 

J) 2 



3G 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. III. 



the size of a man's fist, lay scattered over the ground, destroyed 
and partially calcined by the late prairie fire. 

"The Sim was very hot, and I found crawling so great a 
distance a laborious operation ; my eyes were nearly bliuded 
with perspiration and charcoal dust ; but every now and then, as 
I carefully raised my head, I could distinguish, the horns of the 
antelope in the original position. At length I arrived at the 
base of the last ant-hill from which I must take my shot. 

" There were a few tufts of low scrub growing on the summit ; 
to these I climbed, and digging my toes firml}^ into an inequality 
in the side of the hill, I planted my elbows well on the surface, 
my cap being concealed by the small bushes and tufts of Avithered 
grass. The antelope was standing unconsciously about 170 
yards, or, as I then considered, about 180 yards from me, per- 
fectly motionless, and much resembling a figure fixed upon a 
pedestal. The broadside was exposed, thus it would have been 
impossible to have had a more perfect opportunity after a long 
stalk. Having waited in a position for a minute or two, to 
become cool and to clear my eyes, I aimed at his shoulder. 
AJmost as I touched the trigger, the antelope sank suddenly 
upon its knees, in which position it remained for some seconds 
on tlie summit of the ant-hill, and then rolled down to the base, 
dead. I stepped the exact distance, 169 paces. I had fired 
rather high, as the bullet had broken the spine a little in front 
of the slioulder-blade. It was a very beautiful animal, a fine 
bull, of the same kind that I had killed on 1st April. This 
antelope was about thirteen hands high at the shoulder, the head 
long, the face and ears black, also the top of the head ; the body 
bright bay, with a stripe of black about fifteen inches in width 
extending obliquel}^ across the shoulder, down both the fore and 
the hind legs, and meeting at the rump. The tail was long, 
with a tuft of long black hair at the extremity. The horns 
v/ere deeply annulated, and curved backwards towards the 
shoulders. 

"This was a yerj largo animal, that would have weighed 
quite thirty stone when grallochcd. ]\Iy boatman, who had been 
watching tlie sport, immediately despatched a man for assistance 
to the diahbeeah. I enjoyed the beauty of this animal : the 
hide glistened like the coat of a well-groomed horse. 

" I did not reach the diahbeeah until 6 p.m. ; we then started 
without delay, and reached the fleet at midnight, at the junction 
of the ditch through which we had previously arrived at the 
main river. 



CHAP. III.] DEATH OF THE ARTILLERYMAN. 



37 



April 4. — The vessels are passing witli great difficLilty over 
the shallow entrance of the ditch. 

April 5. — All the vessels have passed. At 6 p.m. we suc- 
ceeded, after much labour, in getting the last of the steamers 
through. This accomplished, and having the stream in our 
favour, we passed along in a compact line for about a mile and a 
half, the ditch that we had {opened being clear and in good 
order. 

April Q. — Another soldier died. This poor man was the 
companion of him who, a few days ago, prophesied his own end 
when he lost his friend. Curiously enough, he died as lie was 
passing the spot where his friend was buried, and we had to 
bury him in tlie same ant-hill. The Egyptian troops are very 
unhealthy. When they first joined the expedition, they were 
an exceedingly powerful body of men, whose pjhysique I much 
admired, although their morale was of the worst type. I think 
that every man lias lost at least a stone in weight since we 
commenced this dreadful ^voyage in cliaos, or the Slough of 
Despond. 

" The boats reached the small lake, and continued their 
voyage through the channel, and anchored for the night at tlie 
northern extremity of the five-mile lake. We catch delicious 
fish daily with the casting-net ; the best are the Nile perch, that 
runs from a pound to four or five pounds, and a species of carp. 
One of my boatmen is a professional fisherman who understands 
the casting-net, but he is the only man who can use it. 

A'pril 7. — ^The channel is again blocked up ; all hands clear- 
ing into the next lake. Another soldier died — making a total 
of nine ; with two sailors and a boy — total twelve. 

April 8. — Passed into lake No. 2, and by the afternoon 
reached lake No. 3, where we found our old channel blocked 
up. I set men to work to open the passage, but there is no 
chance of its completion until about noon to-morrow. Since we 
passed this lake a change has taken place, the obstruction through 
which we cut a channel has entirely broken up. Large rafts of 
about two acres each have drifted asunder, and have floated to 
the end of the lake. It is thus impossible to predict what the 
future may effect. There can be no doubt that the whole of this 
country was at some former period a lake, which has gradually 
filled up with vegetation. The dry land, Avhicli is only exposed 
during the hot season, is the result of the decay of vegetable 
matter. The ashes of the grass that is annually burnt, by 
degrees form a soil. We are even now witnessing the operation 



38 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. III. 



tliat has formed, and is still increasing, the vast tract of alluvial 
soil through which we have passed. There is not a stone nor 
even a small pebble for a distance of two hundred miles ; the 
country is simple mud. 

- April 9. — Passed the old channel at 11.45 a.m., after much 
labour, and we found the long five-mile cutting pretty clear, 
with the exception of two or three small obstructions. At 5.30 
P.M. we reached the Bahr GiratFe, from which extremely narrow 
channel we had first commenced our difiicult work of cutting 
throuoii many miles of country. 

'•'Who could believe the change? Some evil spirit appears 
to rule in this horrible region of everlasting swamp. A wave of 
the demon's wand, and an incredible change appears ! The nar- 
row and choked Bahr Girafie has disappeared ; instead of which 
a river of a hundred yards' width of clear running water meets us 
at the junction of our cutting. As far as the eye can reach to 
the E.S.E., there is a succession of large ojDen sheets of water 
where a few days ago we saw nothing but a boundless plain of 
marsh grass, wdthout one drop of water visible. These sheets of 
water mark the course of a river, but each lake is separated by 
a dam of floating vegetation. The volume of water is very im- 
portant, and a stream is running at the rate of three miles an 
hour. iSTevertheless, although in open water, we now find 
ourselves prisoners in a species of lake, as v/e are completely 
shut in by a serious dam of dense rafts of vegetation that have 
been borne forward and tightly compressed by the great force of 
this new river. It is simply ridiculous to suppose that this river 
can ever be rendered navigable. One or two vessels, if alone, 
would be utterly helpless, and might be entirely destroyed with 
their crews by a sudden change that would break up the country 
and inclose them in a trap from which could never escape. 

"We passed the night at anchor. Many hippopotami are 
snorting and splashing in the new lakes. 

^* April 10. — After a hard day's labour, a portion of the fleet 
succeeded in cutting through the most serious dam, and we de- 
scended oiu' old river to the dubba, or dry mound, where we had 
first discovered vestiges of the traders. The J^o. 10 steamer 
arrived in the evening. The river is wider than when we last 
saw it, but is much obstructed by small islands, formed of rafts 
of vegetation that have grounded in their descent. I fear we 
may find the river choked in many places below stream. ISTo 
dependence can ever be placed upon this accursed river. The 
fabulous Styx must be a sweet rippling brook, compared to this 



OHAP. III.] KUTCHUK ALI, THE SLAVE-TRADER. 39 



horrible creation. A violent wind acting upon the high waving 
plain of sugar-cane grass may suddenly create a change ; some- 
times islands are detached by the gaml3ols of a herd of hippo- 
potami, whose rude rambles during the night, break narrow 
lanes through the floating plains of water-grass, and separate 
large masses from the main body. 

The water being pent up by enormous dams of vegetation, 
mixed with mud and half-decayed matter, forms a chain of lakes 
at slightly-varying levels. The sudden breaking of one dam 
would thus cause an impetuous rush of stream that might tear 
away miles of country, and entirely change the equilibrium of 
the floating masses. 

''April 11. — I sent a sailing vessel ahead to examine the 
river, with orders that she should dip her ensign in case she met 
with an obstruction. Thank God, all is clear. I therefore 
ordered the steamers to remount their paddles. 

''We started at 10 p.m. 

"April 12. — ^At 11.30 p.m. avc met five of Ghatta's^ boats 
bound for the White ISTile. These people declared their in- 
tention of returning, when they heard the deplorable account of 
the river. 

" At 2 A.M. we arrived at our old position, close to our former 
wood station in the forest. 

"Ajjril 13. — Started at 11.30 a.m. The river has fallen 
three feet since we were here, and the country is now dry. Mr. 
Baker and I therefore walked a portion of the way upon the 
banks as the diahbeeah slowly descended the stream. There 
were great numbers of wild fowl ; also hippopotami, and being 
provided with both shot guns and heavy rifles we made a very 
curious bag daring the afternoon, that in England or Scotland 
would have been difficult to carry home ; we shot and secured 
two hippopotami, one crocodile, twenty-two geese, and twenty 
ducks. 

"At 7 P.M. we arrived at the station of Kutchuk Ali. I sent 
for the vakeel, or agent, commanding the company, to whom I 
thoroughly explained the system and suppression of the slave 
trade. He seemed very incredulous that it would actually be 
enforced ; but I recommended him not to make the experiment 
of sending cargoes of slaves down to Khartoum, as he had done 
in previous years. He appeared to be very confident that be- 
cause his employer, Kutchuk Ali, had been promoted to the 

1 One of the principal Khartoum ivory and slave-traders. 



40 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. III. 



rank of sandjak, with, tlie command of a government expedition, 
no inquiry would be made concerning the acts of his people. 
]N"o greater proof could he given of the insincerity of the Soudan 
authorities in jjrofessing to suppress the slave trade, than the 
fact, that Djiaifer Pacha, the governor-general of the Soudan, 
had given the command of an expedition to this same Kutchuk 
Ali, who was known as one of the principal slave-traders of the 
White iS^ile. 

April 14. — One of my black soldiers deserted, but was 
captured. We also caught a sailor who had deserted to the 
slave-hunters during our passage up the river, but as we re- 
turned unexpectedly he was discovered. The colonel, Raouf 
Bey, reported this morning that several officers and soldiers had 
actually purchased slaves to-day from Kutchuk Ali's station ; 
thus, the Khedive's troops, who are employed under my com- 
mand to suppress the slave trade, would quickly convert the 
expedition into a slave market. I at once ordered the slaves to 
be returned, and issued stringent instructions to the officers. 

"I saw this afternoon a number of ^ewly-captured slave 
women and girls fetching water under the guard of a scoundrel 
with a loaded musket. I know that the station is full of slaves ; 
but there is much diplomacy necessary^ and at present I do not 
intend to visit their camp. 

^' Ajjril 15. — To prevent further desertions, it was necessary 
to offer an example to the troojDS. I therefore condemned the 
deserter who was captured yesterday to be shot at noon. 

" At the bugle call, the troops mustered on parade in full 
uniform. The prisoner in irons was brought forward and 
marched round the hollow square, acconqDanied by muffled 
drums. 

" The sentence having been declared, after a short address to 
the men, the prisoner was led out, and the firing party ad- 
vanced. He was a fine young man of about twenty years of 
age, a native of Pongo, who had been taken as a slave, and had 
become a soldier against his will. 

" There was much allowance for desertion under the circum- 
stances, and I was moved by the manly way in which he 
prepared for death. He cast his eyes around, but he found 
neither sympathy nor friends in the hard features of the officers 
and men. The slave-trader's people had turned out in great 
numbers, dressed in their best clothes, to enjoy the fun of a 
military execution. The firing party was ready ; the prisoner 
knelt down with his back towards tliom, at about five paces 



CHAP. III.] MILITARY EXECUTION. 



41 



distant. At that moment lie turned his face with a beseeching 
expression towards me bub he was ordered immediately to look 
straight before him. 

" The order, ' Present,' was given, and the sharp clicking of 
the locks, as the muskets were brought on full cock and pre- 
sented, left but another moment 

" At that instant I ordered the firing party to retire, and I 
summoned the prisoner, who was brought up in charge of the 
guard. In the presence of all the troops I then explained to 
him the necessity of strict discipline, and that the punishment 
of death must certainly follow desertion, at the same time I 
made such allowance for his youth and ignorance that I deter- 
mined to reduce the punishment to that of Hogging, which T 
trusted would be a warning to him and all others. I assured 
him, and the troops generally, that although I should never 
flinch from administering severe punishment when necessary, I 
should be much happier in rewarding those who should do their 
duty. The prisoner was flogged and kept in irons. The troops 
formed into sections of companies and marched past with band 
playing ; each company cheering as they passed before me ; but 
the crowd of slave-hunters slunk back to their station, disap- 
pointed that no blood had been spilt for their amusement. ' 

" No person except Lieutenant Baker and the colonel, Eaouf 
Bey, had been in the secret that / had never intended to shoot 
the man. I had merely arranged an impressive scene as a coup 
de theatre, that I trusted might benefit the morale of the men. 

" We were now in the fine clear stream of the Bahr Girafi'e, 
which, having received numerous afiluents from the marsh 
regions, was united in one volume. "We got up steam and 
started at 4.30 p.m., and the diahbeeah, towed by the steamer 
down stream, travelled at about nine miles an hour until 8 a.m., 
making a run of 125 miles. 

"We then stopped at a large forest on the west bank to cut 
wood for the steamer. 

April 16. — Went out shooting with Mr. Baker, and shot 
two Elli.pfsyprymna antelopes. The country is beautiful, but 
game is scarce. The forest is much broken by elejDhants, 
which appear to frequent it during the wet season. . These 

^ It was satisfactory to me that this young man, who was pardoned 
and punished as described, became one of the best and most thoroughly 
trustworthy soldiers of my body-guard ; and having at length been raised 
to the rank of corporal, he was at the close of the expedition promoted to 
that of sergeant. His name was Ferritch Ajoke. 



42 



ISMAILIA, 



[chap. III. 



animals are very nseful iii preparing wood for the steamers' fii-es. 
Tliey break down the green trees, which dry and become good 
fuel. "Were it not for the elephants, we should only find dead 
wood, which is nearly all either hollow or rotten, and of little 
use as fi.rewood. To-day we met four vessels from Khartoum 
tiiat had followed me with a reinforcement of one company of 
troops, with letters from Djiaffer Pacha and ]\Ir. Higginbotliam. 

April 17. — We steamed about tliirt3^-seven miles and then 
halted at a good forest to fill up our supply of y/ood. The forest 
on the lef b bank is about thirty-seven miles in length, but it is 
merely a few hundred yards in width, beyond which the country 
is prairie. On the east bank, where there is no forest, we saw 
giraffes, buffaloes, and antelopes in considerable numbers during 
the day. 

April 18. — Eilling up wood in the mornmg. We then 
travelled three hours, and halted eleven miles from the White 
Xile junction. During the voyage we saw a lion and lioness 
with five cubs running off alarmed, at the steamer. 

" In the afternoon I went out and shot seven geese and two 
fine black bucks. 

Lieutenant Baker was unfortunately ill with fever. Here 
we met four more vessels with a company of soldiers from Khar- 
toum. They of course remained with us. 

" Ajjril 19. — In an hour and a half we arrived at the White 
m\e, and twenty minutes later we saw three vessels belonging to 
the mudir, or governor, of Fashoda. AVe heard from the people 
on these boats that the governor (Ali Bey, the Koordi,) wa3 
making a razzia on the Shillook tribe. The banks of the river 
were crowded with natives running away in all directions ; 
women were carrying off all their little household goods, and 
children were following their parents, each with a basket on 
their heads containing either food or something too valuable to 
be left behind. I immediately went off in a rowing boat, and, 
after nnich difficulty, I succeeded in inducing some of the natives 
who could sjDealc Arabic to stop and converse Avith me. They 
declared that the Turks had attacked them without provocation, 
and that the Koordi (as the governor of Fashoda was called) had 
stolen many of their Avomen and children, and had killed their 
people, as he was generally plundering the country. I begged 
the natives not to fiy from their district, but to wait until I 
should make inquiries on the following day; and I promised 
to restore the Avomen and children, should they have been 
kidnapped. 



CHAP. III.] 



A SUEPRISE. 



43 



" I halted at a forest about nine miles from the junction of the 
Bahr Giraffe, where a bend of the river concealed the steamers 
and diahbeeah. 

" Late at night, when most people were asleep^ I sent orders to 
the chief engineer of tlie No. 10 steamer to have the steam up at 
five on the following morning. 

April 20. — We started punctually at the appointed hour; 
mj diahbeeah, as usual, being towed by the steamer. As we 
rounded the point and quickly came in sight of the governor's 
vessels, I watched them with a pov/erful telescope. For some 
time we appeared to be imobserved, I knew that the troops 
were not celebrated for keeping a sharp lookout, and we arrived 
within three-quarters of a mile before the sound of our paddles 
attracted their attention. The telescope novv disclosed some of 
the mysteries of the expedition. I perceived a considerable 
excitement among the troops on shore. I made out one tent, 
and I distinguished men hurrying to and fro apparently busy 
and excited. During this time we were rapidly approaching, 
and as the distance lessened, I could distinctly see a number of 
people being driven from the shore on board a vessel that was 
lying alongside the bank. I felt convinced that these were 
slaves, as I could distinguish the difference in size betv/een the 
children and adults. In the mean time we were travelling at full 
speed (about eight miles an hour) in the broad but slack current 
of that portion of the White ISTile. 

" At 6. 35 we ranged up alongside the bank opposite the tent 
which belonged to the Koordi governor of Eashoda. We had 
passed close to the three vessels, but no person was visible except 
their crews. My arrival was evidently quite unexpected, and not 
very agreeable. 

" The governor shortly appeared, and was invited on the poop 
deck of my diahbeeah ; this was always furnished v*^ith carpets 
and sofas so as to form a divan. 

" After a pipe and coffee, I commenced the conversation by 
describing the impossibility of an advance at this season via the 
Bahr Giraffe, therefore I had found it necessary to return. He 
simply replied, ' God is great ! and, please God, you will succeed 
next year.' 

" I now asked him how many troops he had with him, as I 
noticed two brass guns, and a number of irregular cavalry, in 
addition to some companies of infantry. He replied that he had 
hve companies in addition to the cavalry and mounted Baggara 
Arabs j and that he was 'collecting the taxes,' 



44 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. III. 



" I begged liim to explain to me his system of taxation ; and 
to inform me whether he had established a poll, or a house tax, 
or in what special form the dues were represented. This seemed 
to be a great puzzle to the mind of the governor, and after 
applying to my colonel, to whom he spoke in Turkish, he re^jlied 
that the people were very averse to taxation, therefore he made 
one annual tour throughout the country, and collected what he 
thought just. 

" I asked him whether he captured women and children in the 
same way in which he annexed the natives' cattle. To this 
he rephed by a distinct negative, at the same time assuming an 
expression of horror at such an idea. 

" I immediately ordered my aide-de-camj^, Lieutenant-Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader, to visit the vessels that were lymg a few yards 
astern. This was a very excellent and trustworthy officer, and 
he immediately started upon an examination. In the mean while 
the Koordi governor sat rigidly upon the sofa, pufhng away at 
his long pipe, but evidently thinking that the affair would not 
end in simple smoke. 

" In a few minutes I heard the voice of my colonel angrily 
expostulating with the crew of the vessel, who had denied that 
any slaves were on board. Almost at the same time a crowd of 
unfortunate captives emerged from below, where they had been 
concealed, and walked singly along the plank to the shore ; being 
counted by the officer according to sex as they disembarked. 
The Koordi governor looked uncomfortable, as this happened 
before our eyes. I made no remark, but simply expressed a 
wish to walk round his encampment. 

" Having passed through the place of bivouac, where the 
foulest smells attacked us from all sides, I thoroughly examined 
the spot, accompanied by Lieutenant Baker and a few officers of 
my staff. There was no military order, but the place was occu- 
pied by a crowd of soldiers, mingled with many native allies, 
under the command of an extremely blackguard-looking savage, 
dressed in a long scarlet cloak made of woollen cloth. This 
was belted round his Avaist, to which was suspended a crooked 
Turkish sabre; he wore a large brass medal upon his breast, 
which somewhat resembled those ornaments that undertakers 
use for giving a lively appearance to coffins. This fellow v/as 
introduced to me by the Koordi as the ' king of the Shillooks.' 

" In the rear of the party, to which spot I had penetrated 
while the Koordi was engaged in giving orders to certain officers, 
I came suddenly upon a mass of slaves, v/ho were squatted upon 



OHAP. III.] 



DISCOVER THE SLAVES. 



45 



the ground, and surrounded by dirty clothes, arranged like a 
fence, by the support of lances, pieces of stick, camel saddles, 
&c. These peoiDle were guarded by a number of soldiers, who at 
first seemed to think that my visit was one of simple curiosity. 

" Many of the women were secured to each other by ropes passed 
from necic to neck. A crowd of children, including very young 
infants, squatted among the mass, and all kept a profound silence, 
and regarded me with great curiosity. Having sent for my note- 
book, I divided the slaves into classes, and counted them as 
follows : — 

Concealed in the boat we had discovered, 71 
Those on shore guarded by sentries were 84 



155 

including 65 girls and women, 80 children, and 10 men. The 
governor of Eashoda, whom I thus had caught in the act of kid- 
napping slaves, was the person who, a few weeks ]>efore, had 
assured me that the slave trade was su]3pressed, as the traders 
dared not pass his station of Fashoda. The real fact was, that 
this excellent example of the Soudan made a considerable fortune 
by levying a toll upon every slave which the traders' boats 
brought down the river ; this he put into his own pocket. 

" I immediately informed him that I should report him to 
the Khedive, at the same time I insisted upon the liberation of 
every slave. 

" At first he questioned my authority, saying that he held the 
rank of bey, and was governor of the district. I simply told 
him that ' if he refused to liberate the slaves, he must give me 
that refusal in writing.' This was an awkward fix, and he 
altered his tone by attempting to explain that they were not 
slaves, but only held as hostages until the people should pay 
their taxes. At the same time he was obliged to confess that 
there was no established tax. I heard that he had received 
from one native ten cows for the ransom of his child, thus the 
stolen child was sold back to the father for ten cows ! and this 
was the Soudan method of collecting taxes ! If the unfortunate 
father had been shot dead in the razzia, his unransomed child 
would have been carried away and sold as a slave ; or should the 
panic-stricken natives be afraid to approach with a ransom for 
fear of being kidnapped themselves, the women and children 
would be lost to them for ever. 



46 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. III. 



" I was tliorouglily disgusted. I knew that wliat I had hap- 
pened to discover was the rule of the Soudan, and that the pro- 
testations of innocence of governors was simply dust thrown into 
the eyes. It was true that the Shillook country was not in my 
jurisdiction ; but I was determined to interfere in behalf of the 
slaves, although I shoidd not meddle with the general affairs of 
the countr}?-. I therefore told the Koordi that I had the list of 
the captives, and he must send for some responsible native to 
receive them and take them to their homes. In the mean time I 
should remain in the neighbourhood. I then returned to the 
fleet that I had left at the forest. In the evening we were joined 
by most of the rear vessels. 

" April 21. — At 9.30 a.m. we sighted eleven vessels in fall sail, 
approaching from Khartoum, with a strong IST.-E. Avind, and 
shortly afterwards we were delighted by the arrival of I\Ir. Hig- 
ginbotham. Dr. Gedge, and the six English engineers, shipwrights, 
&c., all in good health. 

" April 22. — I paid a visit to the Koordi's camp, accompanied 
by INIr. liaker and Mr. Higginbotham, as I Avished to have Euro- 
pean witnesses to the fact. Upon arrival, I explained to the 
governor that he had compromised the Egyptian Government by 
his act, and as I had received general instructions from the Khe- 
dive to suppress all slave-hunters, I could only regard him in 
that category, as I had actuall}" found him in the act. I must, 
therefore, insist upon the immediate and unconditional release of 
all the slaves. After an attempt at evasion, he consented, and I 
at once determined to liberate them personally, which would 
establish contidence among the natives. 

" Accompanied by Lieutenant Baker and Mr. Higginbotham, 
and the various officers of the staff, I ordered the ropes, irons, and 
other accompaniments of slavery to be detached ; and I explained 
through an interpreter to the astonished crowd of captives, that 
the Khedive had abolished slavery, therefore they were at liberty 
to return to their own homes. At first, they appeared astounded, 
and evidently could not realize the fact ; but upon my asking 
them where their homes were, they pointed to the boundless 
rows of villages in the distance, and said, ' Those are our homes, 
but many of our men are killed, and all our cattle and corn are 
carried off.' I could only advise them to pack off as quickly as 
possible, now that they had the chance of freedom. 

" The women immediately took up their little infants (one had 
been born during the night), others led the very small children 
by the hand, and with a general concert, they burst into the long, 



onAP. 111.] SELECTS A PLACE FOR A STATION. 



47 



quavering, and shrill yell that denotes rejoicing. I watched theni 
as they retreated over the jDlain to their deserted homes, and I 
took a coldly polite farewell of the Koordi. The looks of aston- 
ishment of the Koordi's troops as I passed through their camp 
were almost comic. I shall report this affair to the Khedive 
direct ; but I feel sure that the exposure of the governor of 
Fashoda will not add to the popularity of the expedition among 
the lower officials. 

April 23. — I started with two steamers and two diahbecahs 
to explore a favourable spot for a permanent station. We 
reached the Sobat junction in throe hours and a quarter, 
about twenty-five miles. From the Sobat, down stream, Ave 
steamed for forty minutes, arriving at a forest, on a high bank to 
the east, where some extraordinary high dome palms {palma 
ThelKiica), together with dolape palms {Borassus Etiiiopicus), 
gave an air of tropical beauty to a desolate and otherwise 
uninviting spot. 

" I fixed upon this place for a station as the ground was hard, 
the position far above the level of high floods, and the forest 
afforded a supply of wood for building purposes and fuel. 

Ajjril 24. — We steamed for half-an-hour down stream to a 
large village on the west bank, named Wat-a-jook. Thence I 
went down stream for one hour to the grove of dolape palms and 
gigantic India-rubber trees. This was formerly a large village, 
known as Ilillet-el-dolape, but it has been entirely destroyed by 
the governor of Fashoda. After much difficulty, I induced 
some natives to come to me, with whom I at length made friends : 
they all joined in accusing the Koordi governor of Avanton 
atrocities. 

In the afternoon, not having discovered a spot superior to 
that I had already selected for a station, Ave returned ; but Ave 
had not travelled more than an hour and a half Avhen the engine 
of the Is^o. 10 steamer broke doAvn. On examination, it appeared 
that the air-pump Avas broken. Fortunately the accident occurred 
close to the spot selected for a station. 

April 25. — At 12.30 p.m. I sent back the ^o. 8 steamer to 
call the fleet to the station. I soon made friends Avitli the 
natives, great numbers of Avliom congregated on the Avest bank 
of the river. All these people had heard that I had liberated 
the Avomen and children. 

April 26. — The steamer and entire fleet arrived in the after- 
noon. 

" The natives brought a bullock and a Pongo slave as a present 



43 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. I [I. 



from the chief. I freed the slave, and sent a piece of cloth 
as an introduction' to the chief. 

April 27. — This was a busy day — passed in measuring out 
the camp. I set several companies at work to fell the forest 
and to prepare timber for building. 

April 28. — Pouring rain. Xo work possible. 

April 29. — The Englishmen set np their forge and anvil; 
and we commenced unloadincr corruQ;ated iron sheets to form 
our magazines. Fortunately, I had a number of wall-plates, 
rafters, &c., that I had brought from Egypt for this purpose, 
as there is no straight wood in the country. 

" The sheik or head of the Shillook tribe sent envoj^s with a 
present of four bullocks and two small tusks, with a message 
that he wished to see me, but he was afraid to come. I accord- 
ingly sent the messengers back in the iSTo. 8 steamer with ten 
soldiers as an escort to bring him to m}^ station. 

April 30. — -We commenced erecting the iron magazines. 
Lieutenant Baker, Mr. Higginbotham, and the Englishmen all 
actively employed, while Raouf Bey and his officers, instead of 
attending to the pressing work of forming the permanent 
camp, sit under a tree and smoke and drink coffee throughout 
the day. 

" The artillerymen are nearly all ill ; likewise many of the 
E'.^yptian regiment, while the black troops are well and in 
excellent spirits. There is no doubt that for this service the 
blacks are very superior to the Egyptians : these are full of 
religious prejudices combined with extreme ignorance, and 
they fall sick when deprived of the vegetable diet to which 
they are accustomed in Egypt. 

" In the evening the steamer returned with the true Shillook 
king, accompanied by two of his wives, four daughters, and a 
retinue of about seventy people." 



OHAP. IV.] ARRIVAL OF QUAT KARE. 



49 



CHAPTEE IV. 

THE GAMP AT TEWFIKEBYAH. 

"May 1. — The Ccainp is beginning to look civilized. Already 
the underwood has been cleared, and the large trees which 
border the river have their separate proprietors. There is no 
home like a shady tree in a tropical climate ; here we are 
fortunate in having the finest mimosas, which form a cool 
screen. I have apportioned the largest trees among the higher 
officers. The English quarter of the camp is already arranged, 
and the whole force is under canvas. A few days ago this 
was a wilderness ; now there are some hiiiidred new tents 
arranged in perfectly straight rows so as to form streets. This 
extensive plot of white tents, occupying a frontage of four 
hundred yards, and backed by tlie bright green forest, looks 
very imposing from the river. 

" The English quarter was swept clean, and as the surface 
soil on the margin of the river was a hard Avliite sand, the 
place quiclily assumed a neat and homely appearance. I had a 
sofa, a few chaiiv^, and a carpet arranged beneath a beautiful 
shady mimosa, where I waited the arrival of the true king of 
the Shillooks — Quat Kare. 

" In a few minutes he was introduced by an aide-de-camp, 
accompanied by two wives, four daughters, and a large retinue. 
Like all the Shillooks, he v/as very tall and thin. As his ward- 
robe looked scanty and old, I at once gave him a long blue shirt 
which nearly reached to his ankles, together with an Indian red 
scarf to wear as a waistband. When thus attired I presented 
him Avith a tarboosh (fez) ; all of which presents he received 
"without a smile or the slightest acknowledgment. When dressed 
with the assistance of two or three of the soldiers who had 
volunteered to act as valets, he sat down on the carpet, upon, 
which he invited his family to sit near him. There was a 
profound silence. The king appeared to have no power of 
speech ; he simply fixed his eyes upon myself and my wife ; 
then slowly turned them upon Lieutenant Baker and the 
officers in attendance. The crowd was perfectly silent. 

I was obliged to commence the conversation by asking him 

E 



50 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



' v/hetlier he was really Quat Kare, the old king of the Shillooks 1 
as I had heard his death rej^orted.' 

" Instead of replying, he conferred with one of his wives, a 
woman of about sixty, who appeared to act as prime minister 
and adviser. This old lady immediately took up the discourse, 
and very deliberately related the intrigues of the Koordi 
governor of Fashoda, which had ended in the ruin of her 
husband. It appeared that the Koordi did not wish that peace 
should reign throughout the land. The Shillooks were a power- 
ful trilDC, numbering upwards of a million, therefore it was 
advisable to sow dissension amongst them, and thus destroy their 
unity. Quat Kare was a powerful king, who had ruled the 
country for more than fifty years. He was the direct descendant 
of a long line of kings ; therefore he was a man whose influence 
was to be dreaded. The policy of the Koordi determined that 
lie would overthrow the power of Quat Kare, and after having 
vainly laid snares for his capture, the. old king fled from the 
governor of Fashoda as David fled from Saul and hid in the 
cave of Adullam. The Koordi was clever and cunning in 
intrigue ; thus, he wrote to Djiaffer Pacha, the governor-general 
of the Soudan, and declared that Quat Kare the king of the 
Shillooks was dead; it was therefore necessary to elect the next 
heir, Jang}^ — for whom he requested the firman of the Khedive. 
The firman of the Khedive arrived in due course for the pre- 
tender Jangy, who was a distant connexion of Quat Kare, and 
ill no way entitled to the succession. This intrigue threw the 
country into confusion. Jangy was proclaimed king by the 
Koordi, and w^as dressed in a scarlet robe with belt and sabre. 
The pretender got together a large band of adherents who were 
ready for any adventure that might yield them plunder. These 
natives, who kncAV the paths and the places where the vast 
herds of cattle were concealed, acted as guides to the Koordi ; 
and the faithful adherents of the old king, Quat Kare, were 
plundered, oppressed, and enslaved without mercy, until the 
day that I had fortunately arrived in the Shillook country, and 
caught the Koordi in the very act of kidnapping. 

" I had heard this story a few da^^s before, and I was mucli 
struck with the clear and forcible manner in which the old wife 
described the liistory. 

" Here we have an average picture of Soudan ride. In a 
country blessed with the most productive soil and favourable 
climate, with a population estimated at above a million, the only 
step towards improvement, after seven years of possession, is a 



CHAP. IV.] REGIMENT OF EGYPTIAN CONVICTS. 



.51 



system of plunder and massacre. Instead of peace, a series of 
intrigues have thrown the country into hopeless anarchy. With 
a good government, this fertile land might produce enormous 
wealth in the cultivation of corn and cotton. I arranged with 
tlie king that he should wait patiently, and that I would brhig 
the affair before the proper authority; in the mean time, his 
people should return to their villages. 

After a feast upon an ox, and the entertainment of the 
magnetic battery and the wheel of life, I gave Quat Kare, and 
the various members of his family, an assortment of presents, 
and sent them back rejoicing in the No. 8 steamer. I had been 
amused by the stoical countenance of the king while under- 
going a severe shock from the battery. Although every muscle 
of his arms ^vas quivering, he never altered the expression of his 
features. One of his Avives followed his example, and resisted a 
shock with great determination, and after many attempts she 
succeeded in extracting a necklace from a basin of water so 
highly charged, that her hand was completely cramped and 
paralysed. 

" I have thoroughly gained the confidence of the natives, as 
vast herds of cattle are now fearlessly brought to graze on the 
large island opposite the camp. The natives assure me that all 
the male children that may be born this year will be called the 
' Pacha,' in commemoration of the release given to the captives. 

" A soldier was caught this afternoon in the act of stealing a 
fowl from a native. I had him flogged and secured in irons for 
five days. I have determined upon the strictest discipline, in 
spite of the old prejudice. As the greater portion of the 
Egyptian regiment is composed of felons, convicted of ofi'ences 
in Cairo, and transported to the White Mle, my task is rather 
difficult in establishing a reformation. The good taste of the 
authorities might be questioned for supplying me with a regi- 
ment of convicts to carry out an enterprise where a high state of 
discipline and good conduct are essential to success." 

I gave the name Tewfikeeyah ^ to the new station, which 
rapidly grew into a place of importance. It was totally unlike 
an Egyptian camp, as all the lines were straight. Deep ditches, 
cut in every necessary direction, drained the station to the river. 
I made a quay about 500 yards in length, on the bank of the 
river, by which the whole fleet could lie, and embark or disem- 
bark cargo. A large stable contained the twenty horses, which 

1 After the Khedive's eldest sou, Mahomed Tewfik Pacha. 
E 2 



52 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, IV. 



by great care had kept their condition. It was absolutely- 
necessary to keep them in a dark stable on account of the flies, 
which attacked all animals in swarms. Even -vvithin the dark- 
ened building it was necessary to Hght fires composed of dried 
horse-dung, to drive away the these persecuting insects. The 
hair fell completely off the ears and legs of the donkeys (which 
were allowed to ramble about), owing to the swarms of flies that 
irritated the skin ; but in spite of the comparative comfort of a 
stable, the donkeys preferred a life of out-door independence, 
and fell off in condition if confined to a house. The worst flies 
were the small grey species with a long proboscis, similar to 
those that are often seen in houses in England. 

In an incredibly short time the station fell into shape. I 
constructed three magazines of galvanized iron, each eighty feet 
in length, and the head storekeeper, Mr. Marcopolo, at last 
completed his arduous task of storing the immense amount of 
supplies that had been contained in the- fleet of vessels. 

This introduced us to the White ^^ile rats, which volunteered 
their services in thousands, and quickly took possession of the 
magazines by tunneling beneath, and appearing in the midst of 
a rat's paradise, among thousands of bushels of rice, biscuits, 
lentils, &c. The destruction caused by these animals was fright- 
ful. They gnawed holes in the sacks, and the contents poured 
upon the ground like sand from an hour-glass, to be immediately 
attacked and destroyed* by white ants. There was no lime in 
the country, nor stone of any kind, thus it was absolutely impos- 
sible to stop the ravages of white ants except by the constant 
labour of turning over the vast masses of boxes and stores, to 
cleanse them from the earthen galleries which denote their 
presence. 

I had European vegetable seeds of all kinds, and having 
cleared and grubbed up a portion of forest, we quickly estab- 
lished gardens. The English quarter was particularly neat. The 
various j^lots were separated by fences, and the ground wa? 
under cultivation for about tAVo acres extending to the margin of 
the river. I did not build a house for myself, as we preferred 
our comfortable diahbeeah, which was moored alongside the 
garden, from the entrance of which, a walk led to a couple of 
large shady mimosas that formed my public divan, where all 
visitors were received. 

In a short time we had above ground sweet melons, water- 
melons, pumpkins, cabbages, tomatoes, cauliflowers, beet-root, 
parsley, lettuce, celery, &c., but all the peas, beans, and a very 



OHAP. IV.] 



BOAT-BUILDING. 



53 



choice selection of maize that I had received from England, were 
destroyed during the voyage. Against my express orders, the 
box had been hermetically sealed, and the vitality of the larger 
seeds was entirely gone. Seeds should be simply packed in 
brown paper bags and seciu-ed in a basket. 

The neighbouring country was, as usual in the White Nile 
districts, flat and uninteresting. Forest and bush clothed the 
banks of the river, but this formed a mere fringe for a depth 
of about half a mile, beyond Avhich all was open prairie. 

Although there ^vas a considerable extent of forest, there was 
a dearth of useful timber for building purposes. The only 
large trees were a species of mimosa, named by the Arabs " kook." 
We were very short of small rowing boats, those belonging to 
the steamers were large and clumsy, and I wished to build a few 
handy dingies that would be extremely useful for the next voy- 
age up the obstructions of the Bahr Giraffe. I therefore 
instructed the English shipwrights to take the job in hand, and 
during a ramble through the forest they selected several trees. 
These were quickly felled, and the sawyers were soon at work 
cutting planks, keels, and all the necessary wood for boat-build- 
ing. It is a pleasure to see English mechanics at work, in a wild 
country ; they finish a job while an Egyptian Avorkman is con- 
sidering how to do it. In a very short time Mr. Jarvis, the 
head shipwright, had constructed an impromptu workshop, with 
an iron roof, within the forest ; several sets of sawyers w^ere at 
work, and in a few days the keel of a new boat was laid down. 

The chief mechanical engineer, Mr. Mc William, was engaged 
in setting up the steam saw-mills, and in a few weeks after our 
first arrival in this uninhabited wilderness, the change appeared 
magical. In addition to the long rows of white tents, and the 
permanent iron magazines, were hundreds of neat huts arranged 
in exact lines ; a large iron workshop containing lathes, drilling 
machines, and small vertical saw machine; next to this the black- 
smith's bellows roared ; and the constant sound of the hammer 
and anvil betokened a new life in the silent forests of the White 
Mle. There were several good men who had received a Euro- 
pean mechanical education among those I had brought from 
Egypt ; these were now engaged with the English engineers in 
repairing the engine of the No. 10 steamer, which required a 
new piston. I ordered a number of very crooked bill-hooks to 
be prepared for cutting the tangled vegetation during our next 
voyage. The first boat, about sixteen feet long, was progress- 
ing, and the entire station was a field of industry. The gardens 



54 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. IV. 



were green with, vegetables, and everything "would have been 
flourishing had the troops been in good health. Those miserable 
Egyptians appeared to be in a hopeless condition morally. It 
was impossible to instil any spirit into them, and if sick, they 
at once made up their minds to die. It is to be ho23ed that my 
regiment of convicts was not a fair sample of the spirit and in- 
telligence of the Egyptian fellah. Some of them deserted. 

There is an absurd prejudice among the men that the grind- 
ing of flour upon the usual flat millstone is an unmanly task 
that should always be performed by a woman. This is a very 
ancient prejudice, if we may judge by the symbols found upon 
the flat millstones of the ancient Egyptians. "\Ve also hear in 
the Testament, " two women shall be grindmg together ; one 
shall be taken, the other left.'^ There was a scarcity of women 
in our station, and the grinding of the corn would have given 
rise to much discontent had I not experienced this difficulty in 
a former voyage, and provided myself with steel corn-mills. I 
had one of these erected for each company of troops, and in 
addition to the usual labour, I always sentenced men under 
punishment to so many hours at the mill. 

Although this country was exceedingly rich in soil, it was 
entirely uninhabited on our side (the east) of the river. This 
had formerly been the Dinka country, but it had been quite 
depopulated by razzias made for slaves by the former and 
present governors of Eashoda. These raids had been made on 
a large scale, with several thousand troops, in addition to the 
sharp slave-hunters, the Baggara Ai-abs, as allies. The result 
was almost the extermination of the Dinka tribe. It seemed 
incomprehensible to the Shillook natives that a government 
that had only lately made slave-hunting a profession should 
suddenly turn against the slave-hunters. 

I frequentl}^ rode on horseback about the country, and wher- 
ever I found a spot slightly raised above the general level, I 
was sure to discover cpiantities of broken pottery, the vestiges of 
Adllages, which had at a former time been numerous. There 
Avas very little game, but now and then ostriches were seen 
stalking about the yellow plains of withered grass. On one 
occasion I was riding with Lieutenant Baker, accompanied by 
a few orderlies, when I distinguished the forms of several 
ostriches at a great distance. They were feeding on the flat 
plain where it was hopeless to attempt an approach. I was 
just replacing my telescope, when I observed an ostrich emerge 
Ironi behind some bushes, about 400 yards' distance. Tliis 



Chap, iv.] 



SHOOT AN OSTRICH. 



55 



was a malo bird, by the black colour, and it appeared to 
be feeding towards the scattered bush on my left. Wo 
Avere at the moment partially concealed by the green foliage. 
I immediately dismounted, and leaving the party behind the 
bushes, I ran quickly forward, always concealed by the thick 
thorns, until I thought I must be somewhere within shot, unless 
the bird had discovered me and escaped without my knowledge. 
I now went cautiously and slowly forward, stooping under the 
bushes when necessary, and keeping a good look-out on all 
sides, as I expected that the ostrich must be somewhere in the 
jungle. At length, as I turned ronnd a clump of thick thorns, 
I sighted the bird racing away with immense speed straight 
from me at about 130 yards. I raised the 150-yard sight of 
the Dutchman, and taking him very steadily, as the bird kept a 
perfectly straight course, I fired. The ostrich at once fell with 
so great a shock upon the hard, parched ground, that the air 
was full of feathers. I stepped 130 long paces^ and found 
that the bullet had struck the bird in the centre of the back, 
killing it instantly. ]\Iy party came up to my whistle, and I 
despatched a mounted orderly to camp to bring men and donkeys. 

Although I have been many years in Africa, this was the 
first and the last ostrich that I have ever bagged. It was a 
very fine male, and the two thighs and legs were a very fair 
load for a strong donlvcy. 

I have seen erroneous accounts of ostriches designated as two 
varieties, the black and the grey. The black, with Avhite 
feathers in the v/ings and tail, is simply the male, and the grey 
the female. The feathers of this bird were old and in bad order. 
The fat is much esteemed by the Arabs as an external appli- 
cation for rheumatism. I found the stomach rich in scorpions, 
beetles, leaves of trees, and white rounded quartz-pebbles. The 
bird must have come from a considerable distance as there was 
neither rock nor pebble in the neighbourhood. 

On my return to camp I carved an artificial ostrich head from 
a piece of wood, and made false eyes with the neck of a wine 
bottle. I intended to stick this head upon a pole, concealed in 
a linen fishing-rod case, and to dress up my cap with thick 
plumes of ostrich feathers. I have no doubt that it would 
be possible to approach ostriches in grass by this imitation, 
as the pole would be carried in the left hand, and all the move- 
ments of the ostriches might be easily imitated. The pole in 
the left hand rested on the ground would make a good rest 
for the rifle when the moment arrived for the shot. 



56 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



Heavy rains set in, and the liitlierto dry plains iDccame 
flooded and SY>'am2Dy, thus I never had an opportunity to try my 
false ostrich. 

The Shillooks were now become our fast friends. The camp 
was crowded daily Avith natives who came by water from a con- 
siderable distance to traffic with the soldiers. Like all negroes, 
they were sharp traders, with a Jewish tendency in their bar- 
gains. They brought raw cotton and provisions of all kinds in 
exchange for cotton manufactures and iron. Their country con- 
sists simply of rich alluvial soil, therefore all iron must be 
imported, and it is of great value. The best articles of exchange 
for this country would be pieces of wrought iron of about four 
ounces in weight and six inches long, and pieces of eight ounces^ 
and eight inches in length. Also cotton cloth, known as grey 
calico, together with white calico, and other cheap manufactures. 
The cotton that is indigenous to the country is short in staple, 
but it grows perfectly wild. The Shillooks are very industrious, 
and cultivate large quantities of dliurra and some maize, but the 
latter is only used to eat in a green state, roasted on the ashes. 
The grain of maize is too hard to grind on the common flat mill- 
stones of the natives, thus it is seldom cultivated in any portion 
of Central Africa on an extended scale. I gave some good 
Egyptian cotton-seed to the natives, also the seed of various 
European vegetables. Tobacco was in great demand by the 
troops, and I considered the quality supplied by the Shillooks 
superior to that cultivated in the Soudan. 

Although the camp was visited by hundreds of natives, in- 
cluding their women, daily, tliere were seldom any quarrels over 
the marketing, and when a disagreement took place it was 
generally the fault of a soldier, who took something on credit, 
and pleaded inability to pay. I administered a rough-and-ready 
justice, and appointed an officer to superintend the bazaar to 
prevent squabbles. 

I was much struck with the honesty of the natives, who ap- 
peared thoroughly to appreciate the protection afl"orded them, 
and the fair dealing insisted upon on the part of the troops. 
The river was about 700 yards wide, but the laud on the west 
shore was only a large island, through which several small 
streams cut deep channels. This island was separated from the 
main western shore by a branch of the White ISTile. The west 
bank was thickly lined with villages for about 200 miles of 
river frontage throughout the Sliillook country, thus affording 
admirable opportunities for direct trade with vessels from 



OHAP. IV.] 



SIIILLOOK HONESTY. 



57 



Khartoum. It Avas a tedious journey for the natives to visit 
us daily, as they had to cross first their western branch of the 
Nile, then to carry their canoes across the island for about a 
mile, and again to cross the main river to arrive at our camp. 
The Shillook canoe has often been described. It is formed of 
long pieces of the ambatch-wood, which is lighter than cork. 
These curious trees, which grow in the swamps of the White 
Nile, are thick at the base, and taper to a point, thus a number 
are lashed securely together, and the points are tied tightly with 
cord, so as to form a bow. These canoes or rafts generally con- 
vey two persons, and they are esj^ecially adapted for the marshy 
navigation of the river, as they can be carried on the head 
without difiiculty, when it may be necessary to cross an island 
or morass. 

Our native traders arrived daily in fleets of ambatch canoes 
from a considerable distance. The soldiers trusted them with 
their rations of corn to grind, rather than take the trouble to 
prepare it themselves. The natives took the corn to their homes, 
and invariably returned with the honest complement of flour. I 
never had a complaint brought before me of dishonesty when a 
Shillook had been trusted. I have great hopes of these people, 
they simply require an assurance of good faith and protection to 
become a valuable race. 

From the Shillook country to Khartoum the river is superb 
and can be navigated at all seasons. The northern end of this 
country is rich in forests of the Acacia Arahica (Soont), a wood 
that is invaluable as fuel for steamers, and is the only really dur- 
able wood for ship-buiLling in the Soudan. The rains begin in 
May, and are regular throughout four months, thus cotton may 
be cultivated without the expense of artificial irrigation ; at the 
same time the dry summer offers an inestimable advantage for 
gathering the crop. 

The .Dinka country on the east bank would have been of equal 
value, but, as I have already described, it has been depopulated. 

There was an old blind sheik v/ho frequently visited us from 
the other side, and this poor old fellow came to an untimely cud 
when returning one day with his son from marketing at Tewfi- 
keeyah. I was walking on the quay, when I heard a great com- 
motion, and I saw a splashing in the river, the surface of which 
Avas covered Avith the ambatch fragments of a native canoe. There 
were many canoes on the river, several of which immediately 
went to the assistance of tAvo men who Avere struggling in the 
water. A hippopotamus had Avantonly charged the canoe, and 



58 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



seizing it in his moiitli, together with the poor old blind sheilc 
who conld not avoid the danger, crunched the frail boat to pieces, 
and so crushed and lacerated the old man that, although he was 
rescued by his comrades, he died during the night. 

As peace and confidence had been thoroughly established 
among the Shillooks, I determined to send for the governor of 
Fashoda, and to introduce him personally to the old king, Quat 
Kare, whom he had officially reported to be dead. I therefore 
summoned Quat Ivare, and having informed him of m}^ intention, 
I sent the steamer to Fashoda (sixty -five miles), and invited the 
Koordi to pay me a visit. 

When he arrived, I received him beneath the tree which 
formed my divan, and after a preliminary pipe and coffee, we 
proceeded to business. I told him that he must have been in 
error when he reported the death of the old king, as I had 
proved him to be still alive. He replied that he did not believe 
the real Quat Kare was in existence, as he had heard on the best 
authority that he was dead. I gave an order to an aide-de-camp, 
and in a few minutes the tall and stately figure of the old king 
was seen approaching, accompanied by his wives, ministers, and 
a crowd of most orderly retainers, including several of his sons. 
The kmg sat down upon a carpet in a dignified manner, without 
taking the slightest notice of the Koordi governor. His two 
Avives sat down by him, but his sons stood with his followers a 
few yards distant. 

The Koordi, ^vllo was a remarkably handsome old man, with 
a snow-white beard, sat equally unmoved, smoking the long chi- 
book, without apparently regarding the king or his people. The 
cliibook is a most useful instrument for a diplomat. If the situ- 
ation is difficult, he can j^uff, puff, puff, and the incorrigible pipe 
will not draw ; in the mean time, he considers a reply. At length 
the pijDe draws, a cloud of smoke issues from the mouth. " I 
Leg your pardon," says the embarrassed diplomat, evidently re- 
lieved by the little unreal difficidty with his pipe, " what were 
we talking about 1 " and having considered his reply, he is ready 
for argument. The pipe then draws leisurely, the smoke ascends 
in steady clouds, while he listens to the arguments of the other 
side. There is no necessity for a too sudden reply. Even if the 
conversation has ceased, the pipe may be calmly smoked, while 
the facts of the case are arranged in the owner's mind before he 
commits himself to an answer. 

In the present instance nobody spoke, but the Koordi goveru- 
or of Pashoda smoked steadily. Presently Quat Kare iixed his 



CHAP. IV.] 



INTERVIEW WITH QUAT KARB. 



59 



eyes upon him witli a steady and determined stare, iDiit with his 
usual immovable features, and he thus silently regarded him 
during several minutes. Have I found thee, mine enemy 1 " 
might have been the Shillook king's idea, but he kept silence. 

How long this tableau vivant would have continued it is im- 
possible to say, therefore I proceeded to business by asking 
the governor if he knew Quat Kare by sight 1 E[e only 
replied "yes." 

At this reply, the king, without altering his position or expres- 
sion, said, " Then who aui 1 1 " 

The Koordi raised his eyes for the first time, and looked at Quat 
Kare, but said nothing ; he only puffed — the pipe did not seem 
to draw well. At length a fair volume of smoke was emitted, 
and the Koordi answered by a question : "If you are Quat Kare, 
why did you hide yourself? why did you not present yourself 
before me at Fashoda ? then I should have known that you were 
alive." 

Quat Kare regarded him fixedly, and he replied slowly, 
" Where are all my cattle that you stole % where are the women 
and children that you kidnapped % I considered that if you 
took my cattle and captured my people, you might probably take 
me, therefore I declined the opportunity." 

The Koordi puffed and puffed vigorously, but the long pipe 
did not draw ; something had evidently choked the tube. 

It would be tedious to describe the whole dialogue, but there 
was no question that the old Shillook king had the best of the 
argument ; therefore, after a long discussion, during which the 
king was continually prompted by his favourite wife, in excited 
whispers that every one could hear, I examined both the governor 
and the king upon various points ; and came to the conclusion 
that the governor was a great scoundrel, and the king a very 
cunning fellow ; at the same time he had been shamefully treated. 
The Koordi had reported him as dead, and obtained a firman 
conferring the title of Sheik of the Shillooks upon an impostor, 
who had been a grand enemy of Quat Kare. Since that time the 
adherents of Quat Kare had been subject to constant raids and 
pillage, and the old king was a fugitive, who, if caught by the 
Koordi, would assuredly have been quietly put out of the way} 

I decided that the affair must be settled in the following man- 
ner : — I explained that I had no jurisdiction in the Shillook 

^ Eventually the old king, Quat Kare, was imprisoned at Fashoda, and 
died in a mysterious manner. There are no coroners' inquests in Central 
Africa. 



60 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



country, which was under the government of Ali Bey, the 
Koordi ; but as I held the positive and special orders of the 
Khedive to suppress the slave trade, I had been compelled to 
interfere and to release those captives who had been thus shame- 
lessly kidnapped. 

With regard to the general pillage of the country instead of 
direct taxation, the governor would explain his conduct to the 
Khedive. 

With regard to the false report of Quat Kare's death, there 
could be no doubt that the firman for his rival Jangy had been 
obtained from the Khedive under false pretences. 

I therefore recommended Quat Kare and his sons to go direct 
to Khartoum, and plead his cause at the divan of Djiatfer Pacha, 
who was the governor-general of the Soudan, which included the 
Shillook country ; thus the whole affair was within his jurisdic- 
tion. ¦ I also explained that I should send an official despatch to 
the Khedive of Egypt, and also to Djiaifer Pacha, describiug the 
general state of the Shillook country and the special case of Quat 
Kare, with a direct report upon the kidnapping of slaves by the 
government's representative. 

At the same time, I assured Quat Kare and his people that the 
Khedive had only one object in forming a government : this was 
to protect the natives and to develop the resources of the coun- 
try. I persuaded the Koordi and Quat Kare to become friends 
and at once to declare peace ; thus, all hostilities having ceased, 
the responsibility for further disturbance would rest with him 
who should recommence a breach of the peace. 

I advised the Shillook king to forget the past, where there had 
evidently been a mistake, and he should trust to his application 
to Djiatfer Pacha, who would speedily give liim justice. The 
Shillook king then replied, without moving a muscle of his fea- 
tures, If I forget the past, what is to become of all my cattle that 
the Koordi has stolen from me 1 Is he going to return them, or 
keep them himself, and forget the pasti I can't forget my 
cows." 

Tliis practical question was difficult to answer. The Koordi's 
pipe was out : he therefore rose from his seat and retired, leav- 
ing the stoical Quat Kare master of his position, but not of his 
cattle. I advised him to say notliing more until he should see 
Djiatfer Pacha, and he would receive a direct reply from the 
Khedive. 

Quat Kare, with his wives and daughters and general retinue, 
determined to pass the night in our station. 



OHAP. IV.] 



A SLAVE VESSEL APPROACHES. 



61 



I therefore ordered an ox to be killed for tlieir entertainment. 
I gave the king a large Cashmere scarf, also one of red printed 
cotton, and a dozen small harness bells, which he immediately 
arranged as anklets. His usually unchangeable countenance re- 
laxed into a smile of satisfaction as he took leave, and the bells 
tinkled at every footstep as he departed. 

Quat Kare never eats or drinks in the presence of his people, 
but his food is taken to him either within a hut or to a lonely tree. 

On the following morning both the governor of Fashoda and 
the old king returned to their respective homes. 

On the 10th May, a sail was reported by the sentries in the 
south. J^one of the slave-traders had any intelligence of my 
station at Tewfil?:eeyah. The people of Kutchuk Ali, on the Bahr 
Giraffe, were under the impression that we had returned direct 
to Khartoam. I was rather curious to know whether they would 
presume to send slaves down the White Nile during this season, 
knowing that tlie Khedive had sent me expressly to suppress the 
trade. I could not believe that the Koordi governor of Fashoda 
would have the audacity to allow the free passage of slave vessels 
after the stringent orders that had been given. Although I had 
heard that this governor had amassed a considerable fortune by 
the establishment of a toll per head for every slave that passed 
Fashoda, I imagined that he would this year make up his mind 
that the rich harvest was over. 

If any vessels should attempt to descend with slave cargoes, 
they must pass my new station, of which they were ignorant, 
and the fact would prove the complicity of the governor of 
Fashoda, as it would substantiate all the reports that I had heard 
concerning his connivance with the slave-traders. The strange 
sail now reported was rapidly approaching on her route to 
Khartoum, without the slightest suspicion that a large military 
station was established within four miles of the Sobat junction. 
If guilty, she was thus approaching the jaws of the lion. 

As she neared the station, she must have discovered the long 
row of masts and yards of the fleet moored alongside the quay. 
Of these she appeared to take no notice, and keeping well in the 
middle of the river, she would have passed the station, and con- 
tinued on her voyage. This looked very suspicious, and I at 
once sent a boat to order her to halt. 

When she was brought alongside, I sent my trusty aide-de- 
camp. Colonel Abd-el-Kader, on board to make the necessary 
inquiries. She was quite innocent. The captain and the vakeel 
(agent and commander of station) were amazed at my thinking 



62 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



it necessary to search tlieir vessel. She had a quantity of corn 
on board, stowed in bulk. There was not a person beside the 
crew and a few soldiers from Ivutchuk Ali's station. 

The vakeel was the same whom I had seen at the station at 
the Bahr Giraffe, to whom I had given advice that he should not 
attempt to send slaves down the river again. All was in order. 
The vessel belonged to Kutchuk Ali, who now commanded the 
government expedition sent by Djiafier Pacha to the Bain' Gazal. 
She was laden with ivory beneath the corn, which was for the 
suj^ply of the crew and soldiers. 

Colonel Abd-el-Kader was an excellent officer ; he was one of 
the exceptions who took a great interest in the expedition, and 
he always served me faithfully. He was a fine j)owerful man, 
upwards of six feet high, and not only active, but extremely 
determined. He was generally called ''the Englishman" by his 
brother officers, as a bitter compliment reflecting on his debased 
taste for Christian society. This officer was not the man to 
neglect a search because the agent of Kutchuk Ali protested his 
innocence, and exhibited the apparently naked character of his 
vessel. She appeared suspiciously full of corn for a boat home- 
ward bound. There was an awkward smell about the closely- 
boarded forecastle which resembled that of unwashed negroes. 
Abd-el-Kader drew a steel ramrod from a soldier's rifle, and probed 
sharply through the corn. 

A smothered cry from beneath, and a wriggling among the 
corn, was succeeded by a woolly head, as the strong Abd-el-Kader, 
having thrust his long arm into the grain, dragged forth by the 
wrist a negro woman. The corn was at once removed ; the 
planks which boarded up the forecastle and the stern were broken 
down, and there was a mass of humanity exposed, boys, girls, 
.and women, closely packed like herrings in a barrel ; who under 
the fear of threats had remained perfectly silent until thus dis- 
covered. The sail attached to the mainyard of the vessel ap- 
peared full and heavy in the lower jjart ; this v/as examined, and 
upon unpacking, it yielded a young woman who had thus been 
sewn up to avoid discovery. 

The case was immediately reported to me. I at once ordered 
the vessel to be unloaded. We discovered one hundred and fifty 
slaves stowed away in a most inconceivably small area. The 
stench was horrible when they began to move. Many were in 
irons ; these were quickly released by the blacksmiths, to the 
astonishment of the captives, who did not appear to understand 
the i^roceeding. 



i oiiAP. IV.] WHOLESALE MATRIMONY. 63 

I ordered tlie vakeel, and the reis or captain of the vessel, to 
be put in irons. The slaves began to comprehend that their 
captors were now captives. They now began to speak, and many- 
declared that the greater portion of the men of their villages had 
been killed by the slave-hunters. 

Having weighed the ivory and counted the tusks, I had the 
vessel reloaded ; and having placed an officer with a guard on 
board, I sent her to Khartoum to be confiscated as a slaver. 

I ordered the slaves to wash, and issued clothes from the 
magazine for the naked Avomen. 

On the following day I inspected the captives, and I explained 
to them their exact position. They were free people, and if their 
homes were at a reasonable distance they should be returned. If 
not they must make tliemselves generally useful, in return for 
which they would be fed and clothed. 

If any of the women wished to marry, there were many fine 
young men in the regiments who would make caj^ital husbands. 
I gave each person a paper of freedom, signed by myself. This 
wa3 contained in a hollow reed and suspended round their necks. 
Their names, approximate age, sex, and country were registered 
in a book corresponding with the numbers on their papers. 

These arrangements occupied the whole morning. In the 
afternoon I again inspected them. Having asked the officer 
whether any of the negresses would wish to be married, he 
replied that all the women wished to marry, and that they had 
already selected their husbands ! 

This was wholesale matrimony, that recpiired a church as large 
as Westminster Abbey, and a whole company of clergy ! 

Fortunately, matters are briefly arrranged in Africa. I saw 
the loving couples standing hand in hand. Some of the girls 
were pretty, and my black troops had shown good taste in their 
selection. Unfortunately, however, for the Egyptian regiment, 
the black ladies had a strong antipathy to brown men, and the 
suitors were all refused. This was a very awk'\7ard affair. The 
ladies having received their freedom, at once asserted " woman's 
rights." 

I was obliged to limit the matrimonial engagements, and those 
who were for a time condemned to single blessedness were placed 
in charge of certain officers to perform the cooking for the troops 
and other domestic work. I divided the boys into classes ; some 
I gave to the English workmen to be instructed in carpenter's and 
blacksmith's work; others were apprenticed to tailors, shoe- 
makers, &c., in the regiment, while the best looking were selected 



64 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



as domestic servants. A nice little girl, of about three years old, 
without parents, was taken care of by niy wife. 

'^^^len slaves are liberated in large numbers there is always a 
difficulty in providing for them. We feel this dilemma when our 
cruisers capture Arab dhows on the east coast of Africa, and our 
government becomes responsible for an influx of foundlings. It 
is generally quite impossible to return them to their own homes, 
therefore all that can be clone is to instruct them in some useful 
work by whicli they can earn their livelihood. If the boys have 
their choice, they invariably desire a military life ; and I believe 
it is the best school for any young savage, as he is at once placed 
under strict discipline, which teaches him habits of order and 
obedience. The girls, like those of other countries, prefer mar- 
riage to regular domestic work ; nevertheless, if kindly treated, 
with a due amount of authority, they make fair servants for any 
rough employment. 

AVhen female children are about five- years old they are most 
esteemed by the slave-dealers, as they can be more easily taught, 
and they grow up with an attachment to their possessors, and in 
fact become members of the family. 

Little Mostoora, the child taken by my wife, was an exceed- 
ingly clever specimen of her race, and although she was certainly 
not more than three years old, she was cjuicker than most children 
of double her age. With an ugly little face, she had a beautifully 
shaped hgure, and possessed a power of muscle that I have never 
seen in a white child of that age. Her lot had fallen in pleasant 
quarters ; she was soon dressed in convenient clothes and became 
the pet of the family. 

On June 17, I sent the Xo. 9 steamer to Khartoum with the 
post, together with three sons of Quat Kare, who were to repre- 
sent theh' father at the divan of Djiaffer Pacha. The old man 
declined the voyage, pleading his age as an excuse. Mr. Wood 
also returned, as his health required an immediate change to 
Egypt. On the 25th, four vessels arrived from the south, two 
belonging to Kutchuk Ali, one to Agad, and one to a trader 
named Assaballa, from the Bahr Gazal. The latter had thirty- 
five slaves on board. Tlie others had heard, by some vessels that 
had gone up from Khartoum, that I had formed a station near 
the Sobat, and had captured the vessel and slaves of Kutchulc 
Ali, thus they had landed their slaves at the Bahr Giraffe station. 
The Bahr Gazal vessel having arrived from a diiferent direction 
had not received the information. I seized the boat and cargo, 
and liberated the slaves. 



CHAP. IV.] 



PONGO MUSICIANS. 



65 



On board the diahbeeali of Kutchuk Ali were four musicians, 
natives of Pongo, on the river Djoor. Their band consisted of 
two iron bells, a flageolet and an instrument made of hard wood 
that was arranged like the musical glasses of Europe. The latter 
was formed of ten pieces of a metallic sounding-wood suspended 
above long narrow gourd shells. Each piece of wood produced 
a separate note, and the instrument was played by four sticks, 
the ends of which were covered with india-rubber. The general 
effect, although a savage kind of harmony, was superior to most 
native attempts at music. 

The station of Te^vfikeeyah had now assumed an important 
aspect, and I much regretted that when the time should arrive 
for our departure to the south it would be abandoned : however, 
I determined to keep all hands employed, as there is nothing so 
demoralizing to troops as inaction. At the same time there was 
a general dislike to the expedition, and all trusted that some- 
thing might happen that would prevent another attempt to 
penetrate the marshes of the Bahr Gira€e. There was much 
allowance to be made for this feeling. The seeds of dangerous 
disorders, that had been sown by the malaria of the swamps, 
had now exhibited themselves in fatal attacks of dysentery, that 
quickly formed a cemetery at Tewfikeeyah. 

The Egyptian troops were generally sickly and dispirited, and 
went to their daily work in a slouching, dogged manner, that 
showed their passive hatred of the employment. 

I arranged that the sailors should cultivate a piece of ground 
with corn, while the soldiers should be employed in a similar 
manner in another position. The sailors were all Nubians, or 
the natives of Dongola, Berber, and the countries bordering the 
Nile in the Soudan. These people were of the same class as 
the slave-hunter companies, men who hated work and jDreferred 
a life of indolence, lounging sleepily about their vessels. I 
quickly got these fellows into order by dividing them into 
gangs, over which I placed separate headmen, the captains of 
vessels ; one superior officer commanded, and was responsible 
for the whole. 

They only worked six hours daily, but by this simple organ- 
ization I soon had thirty acres of land cleaned. The grass and 
roots were burnt in piles, the ashes spread, and the entire field 
was dug over and sown with barley, wheat, and dhurra. There 
is a civilizing influence in cultivation, and nothing is so cheer- 
ing in a wild country as the sight of well-arranged green fields 
that are flourishing in the centre of the neglected wilderness. I 



66 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. IV. 



had now a promising little farm of about thirty acres belong- 
ing to our naval brigade ; and a very unpromising farm, that 
had been managed by my Colonel, Eaouf Bey. The soldiers 
had never even cleared the rough native grass from the surface, 
but had turned up the soil in small lots at intervals of about a 
foot, into which they had carelessly dropped a few grains of 
corn. 

TVe now found agricultural enemies that were unexpected. 
Guinea-fowl recognized the importance of cidtivation, and 
created terrible damage. Small birds of the sparrow tribe 
infested the newly-sown land in clouds, but worse than these 
enemies were the vast armies of great ants. 

These industrious insects, ever providing for the future, dis- 
covered the newly sown barley and wheat, and considering that 
such an opportunity should not be neglected, they literally 
marched off with the greater portion of the seed that was ex- 
posed. I saw them on many occasions returning in countless 
numbers from a foray, each cariying in its mouth a grain of 
barley or wheat. I tracked them to their subterranean nests, in 
one of which I found about a peck of corn which had been 
conveyed by separate grains ; and patches of land had been 
left nearly barren of seed. 

The large crimson-headed goose of the White Kile quickly 
discovered that barley was a food well adapted for the physical 
constitution of geese, and great numbers flocked to the new 
farm. The guinea-fowl were too wild to approach successfully ; 
however, we shot them daily. I set little hojs to scream from 
daylight till sunset to scare the clouds of small birds ; but the 
boys screamed themselves to sleep, and the sparrows quickly 
discovered the incapacity of the watchers. Wild fowl were so 
numerous on an island opposite the farm that we not only shot 
them as we required, but on one occasion Lieutenant Baker and 
myself bagged in about two hours sixty-eight ducks and geese, 
most of which were single shots in flight overhead. 

I found the necessity of re-sowing the land so thickly that 
there should be sufficient grain to allow for the depredations of 
our enemies. I set vermin traps and caught the guinea-fowl. 
Then the natural enemy appeared in the wild cats, who took 
the guinea-fovds out of the traps. At first the men were sus- 
pected of stealing the birds, but the unmistakable tracks of the 
Avild cats were found close to the traps, and shortly after the 
wily cats themselves became victims. These were generally of 
the genus Herpestris. 



CHAP. IV.] 



AN " AGRICULTURAL STRIKE/ 



67 



When the cro2)s, having resisted many enemies, apj^eared 
above ground, they were attacked by the mole crickets in for- 
midable numbers. These destructive insects lived beneath the 
small solid clods of earth, and issuing forth at night, they bit 
the young shoot clean off close to the parent grain at the point 
of extreme sweetness. The garden suffered terribly from these 
insects, which destroyed whole rows of cucumber plants. 

I had brought ploughs from Cairo. These were the native 
implements that are used throughout Egypt. There is always a 
difficulty in the first commencement of agricultural enterprise in 
a wild country, and much patience is required. 

Some of my Egyptian soldiers were good ploughmen, to which 
employment they had been formerly accustomed ; but the bul- 
locks of the country were pigheaded creatures that for a long 
time resisted all attempts at conversion to the civilized labour of 
Egyptian cattle. They steadily refused to draw the ploughs, 
and they determined upon an " agricultural strike." They had 
not considered that we could strike also, and tolerably hard, 
with the hippopotamus-hide whips, which were a more forcible 
appeal to their feelings than a " lock-out." However, this con- 
test ended in the bullocks lying down, and thus offering a 
passive resistance that could not be overcome. There is nothing 
like arbitration to obtain pure justice, and as I was the arbi- 
trator, I ordered all refractory bullocks to be eaten as rations by 
the troops. A few animals at length became fairly tractable ; 
and we had a couple of ploughs at work, but the result was a 
series of zigzag furrows that more resembled the indiscriminate 
ploughings of a herd of wild boar than the effect of an agricul- 
tural implement. jCSTothing will ever go straight at the com- 
mencement, therefore the plouglis naturally went crooked ; but 
the whole affair forcibly reminded me of my first agricultural 
enterprise on the mountains of Ceylon twenty-five years earlier.^ 

The mean temperature at the station of Tewhkeeyah had been 

In the month of May, at 6 a.m. 73, V Fahrenheit 
„ at Noon 92 ,\ „ 

„ June, at 6 a.m. 72 ,\ „ 
„ at Noon 86 jV „ 

„ July, at 6 A.M. 71 A » 
„ at Noon 81 „ 

During May we had heavy rain during 3 days. 

light „ „ 4 „ 7 days. 



^ See "Eight Years' Wanderings in Ceylon," published by Longman 
& Co. 

F 3 



68 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. V. 



During June we had Iiea^^ rain during 5 days. 

„ „ light „ „ 6 „ 11 days 

„ July heavy „ „ 10 „ „ 

» „ light „ „ 4 „ 14 „ 

Sickness increased proportionately with tlie increase of rain, owing 
to the sudden chills occasioned by the heavy showers. The 
thermometer would sometimes fall rapidly to 68° Fahr. during 
a storm of rain, accompanied by a cold rush of air from the 
cloud. Fortunately I had provided the troops with blankets, 
which had not been included in their kit by the authorities at 
Khartoum. 



CHAPTEE V. 

EXPLORATION^ OF THE OLD WHITE NILE. 

I HAD long since determined to explore the sudd, or obstruc- 
tions of the main Mle, in the hope of discovering some new 
passage which the stream might have forced through the vegeta- 
tion. A Shillook, named Abdullah, closely connected with 
Quat Kare, had promised to accompany me, and to supply the 
necessary guides. The river was full — thus I started on 11th 
August, 1870. 

The engines of the ISTo. 10 steamer had been thoroughly 
repaired during our stay at Tewfikeeyah. I had loaded her to 
the maximum with well-cut " Soont " (Acacia Arahica), which 
is the best fuel ; and knowing, by the experience of former 
years, that a scarcity of wood existed near the Bahr Gazal, I had 
loaded one of the largest vessels (about seventy tons) with a 
supply, to accompany us as a tender. I had also lilled my 
diahbeeah with selected fuel. 

We steamed thirteen hours from Tewfikeeyah, with the tender 
and diahbeeah in tow, and reached the old sudd about twelve 
miles beyond the Bahr Giraffe junction. The Avater below the 
sudd was cpiite clear from floating vegetation, as it had been 
filtered through this extraordinary obstruction. 

I will not fatigue the reader by a description of this voyage. Wo 
were as usual in a chaos of marshes. We found a small channel. 



OHAP. v.] 



THE BAHR GAZAL. 



69 



which took us to the Bahr Gazal. This swampy and stagnant 
lacustine river was much changed since I had last seen it in 
1865. It was now a succession of lakes, through which we 
steamed for several hours, but without discovering any exit, 
except the main passage coming from the west, which is the 
actual Bahr Gazal. 

This was the third time that I had visited this river. Upon 
the former occasions I had remarked the total absence of current ; 
this was even still more remarkable at the present time, as the 
river was not only full, but the surface formerly clogged and 
choked with dense rafts of vegetation, was now clear. I sounded 
the depth of the lakes and main channel, which gave a remark- 
able mean of seven feet throughout, showing that the bottom was 
remarkably flat, and had not been subjected to the action of any 
stream that would have caused inequalities in the surface of the 
ground. 

When the vessels lay at anchor, the filth of the ships remained 
alongside, thus proving the total absence of stream. It has 
always appeared to me that some western outlet concealed by the 
marsh grass must exist, which carries away the water brought 
down by the Djour, and other streams, into the lacustrine 
regions of the Bahr Gazal. There is no doubt that the evapor- 
ation, and also the absorption of water by the immense area of 
spongy vegetation, is a great drain upon the volume subscribed 
by the affluents from the south-west ; nevertheless, I should 
have expected some stream, however slight, at the junction with 
the Nile. iSlj experience of the Bahr Gazal assures me that 
little or no water is given to the White Nile by the extraordin- 
ary series of lakes and swamps, which change the appearance 
of the surface from year to year, like the shifting phases of a 
dream. 

Our lamented traveller, Livingstone, was completely in error 
when he conjectured that the large river Lualaba that he had 
discovered south-west of the Tanganyike lake was an affluent of 
the Bahr Gazal. The Lualaba is far to the west of the Nile 
Basin, and may possibly flow to the Congo. I have shown in 
former works, in describing the system of the Nile, that the 
great affluents of that river invariably flow from the south-east — 
vide, the Atbara, Blue Nile, Sobat ; and the Asua, which is very 
inferior so the three great rivers named. 

We have lastly the Victoria Nile of the Victoria N'yanza, 
following the same principle, and flowing from the south-east to 
the Albert N'yanza. This proves that the direct drainage of thoj 



70 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. v. 



!N"ile Basin is from the south-east to the north-west ; it is there- 
fore probable that, as the inclination of the countrj^ is towards 
the west, there may be some escape from the lake marshes of the 
Bahr Gazal in the same direction. 

On 21st August, having been absent ten days, during which 
we had been very hard at work, exploring in the unhealthy 
marshes of the Bahr Gazal, we returned hopelessly to Tewfikeeyah. 

The great river Xile was entirely lost, and had become a 
swamp, similar to the condition of the Bahr Giraffe. It was impos- 
sible to guess the extent of the obstruction ; but I was confident 
that it would be simply a question of time and labour to clear 
the original channel by working from below the stream. The 
great power of the current would assist the work, and with 
proper management this formerly beautiful river might be restored 
to its original condition. It would be impossible to clear the 
Bahr Giraffe permanently, as there was not sufficient breadth of 
channel to permit the escape of huge rafts of vegetation occupy- 
ing the surface of perhaps an acre ; but the great width of the 
iSTile, if once opened, together with the immense power of the 
stream, would, with a little annual inspection, assure the per- 
manency of the work. 

I came to the conclusion that a special expedition must be 
sent from Khartoum to take this important work in hand, as it 
would be quite useless to annex and attempt to civilize Central 
Africa, unless a free communication existed with the outer world 
by which a commercial channel could be opened. l\Iy explor- 
ation, in which I had been ably assisted by Lieutenant Baker 
and Mr, Higginbotham, had proved that for the present it was 
impossible to penetrate south by the main river, therefore I must 
make all preparations for an advance by the Bahr Girafi'e, where 
I hoped that our past labour might have in some degree improved 
the channel. 

The close of August showed a mean temperature of 73^%° at 
6 A.M., and 8.5° Fahrenheit at noon, with seven days of heavy 
and seven of light rain. Although the station was admirably 
drained, the climate acted unfavourably upon the people. On 
9th September it was necessary for the unfortunate Dr. Gedge, 
iny chief medical officer, to return to Khartoum, as his state of 
health required immediate change. 

Just as the diahbeeah was leaving the station, a vessel arrived 
from the Bahr Gazal, by which I received a letter from the 
German traveller. Dr. Schweinfurth. This gentleman, to whom 
I was quite unknown personally, had the extreme courtesy and 



OHAi>. v.] ILLNESS OP DR. GEDGE. 71 

generosity to intrust me with all the details of his geographical 
observations, collected in his journey in the Western Mle Basin. 

It was necessary for me to return personally to Khartoum to 
assure myself that my arrangements should be carried out without 
delay. I had determined that the expedition should start for the 
south from Tewfikeeyah on 1st Dec, at which time the Mle would 
be full, and the wind strong from the north. As Tewfikee3^ah was 
nearly half way in actual distance from Khartoum to Gondokoro, 
I trusted that we should have time to accomplish the work of 
cutting through the marshes, and be enabled to joass the shallows 
before the river should begin to fall. I therefore sent Mr. 
Higginbotham to Khartoum to cnigage vessels ; I followed on 
15tli September, with the JSTo. 10 steamer towing my diahbeeah 
— and ten empty vessels to bring up a supply of corn. 

We reached Khartoum on the 21st Sept. at 9.30 a.m., to the 
astonishment of the governor and population, who could not 
understand why I had returned. I now met for the first time 
the Vicomte de Bizemont, who was to accompany the expedition. 
This gentleman had been intrusted by the Empress of the 
French with a very gracious token of her interest in the expe- 
dition, which he presented as a gift from her Majesty to my 
wife. I now heard for the first time the startling news of the 
war between France and Prussia. I found Dr. Gedge alive, but 
in a deplorable state of health. It was impossible for him to 
travel north, therefore he was carefully attended by the Greek 
physician to the forces, Dr. Georgis. I at once saw that there 
was no hope of recovery. Mr. Higginbotham had been exceed- 
iugly kind and attentive to his Avants. 

I was very well received by my old friend, Djiaffer Pacha, the 
governor-general, but as usual the Avork was all behind-hand, and 
Mr. Higginbotham had been in despair until my arrival. Only 
seven vessels were forthcoming. I had expected thirty ! Thus, 
it would again be impossible to transport the camels that were 
indispensable for the transport of the steamers from Gondokoro. 
This was very heart-breaking. Instead of completing the expe- 
dition by a general direct move south mth all material, transport 
animals, stores, &c., in travelling order, the operation would ex- 
tend over some years, for the simple reason that the government 
had not the means of transport. Even now the steamers had not 
arrived from Cairo. The fifteen large sloops had failed to pass 
the cataract ; thus, I was reduced to the miserable open vessels 
of Khartoum, and even these were of an inferior description 
and few in number. Fortunately I had brought ten empty 



72 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. V. 



vessels with me from Tewfikeeyah, otherwise we should not have 
had sufficient transport for the necessary supply of com. How- 
ever, now that I had arrived, things hegan i o move a little faster. 
I find this entry in my journal, dated "1st October, 1870. 
Thermometer, 6 a.m., 80° ; noon, 94°. Wind, north. The fact 
of my having captured the boats of Kutchuk Ali and Agad with 
slaves on board, has determined a passive, but stubborn, resist- 
ance in Kliartoum to the expedition. This is shared by the 
officials. 

"Although I wrote to Djiaffer Pacha months ago requesting 
him to send me thirty vessels, there is not one actually ready, 
neither are there more than seven to be obtained. Even these 
are not prepared for the journey. The object appears to be to 
cause such delay as shall throw me back until the river shall 
be too low for the passage of the Bahr Giraife. 

" October 2. — I wrote an official letter to Djiaffer Pacha, pro- 
testing against delay, and reminding him of the Khedive's 
instructions." 

The only authority who, I believe, takes a real interest in the 
expedition is Ismail Bey, who is a highly intellectual and clever 
man. This Bey is the President of the Council, and I have 
known him during many years. He speaks excellent French, 
and is more European in his ideas than any of my acquaintances. ^ 

The action that I had taken against the proceedings of the 
governor of Fashoda was very distasteful to the Khartoum 
public. I much regretted the necessity, but I could not have 
acted otherwise. This complication placed my friend, Djiaffer 
Pacha, in a most unpleasant position, as the Koordi of Fashoda 
was his employe ; it w^ould therefore appear that no great vigil- 
ance had been exercised by the governor-general at Khartoum, 
and suspicions might be aroused that the character and acts of 
the Fashoda governor must have been previously known to the 
Khartoum authorities. 

The curtain began to rise, and disclosed certain facts of which 
I ought to have been informed many months ago, when I first 
arrived at Khartoum. I heard from Mr. Higginbotham that the 
principal trader of the White Nile (Agad) had a contract with 
the government, which gave him the exclusive right of trading 
throughout certain distant countries. This area comprised about 
ninety thousand square miles/ Thus, at the same time that I was 
employed by the Khedive to suppress the slave trade, to establish 

^ Since this was written Ismail Bey has become Pacha, and is governor 
of the Khartoum province. 



OHAP. v.] 



THE CURTAIN RISES. 



73 



commerce, and to annex the Nile Basin, the White Nile coun 
tries that were to be annexed had already been leased by the 
governor-general of the Soudan for several thousand pounds 
sterhng per annum, together with the monopoly of the ivory 
trade. 

A country that Vv^as in no way connected with Egypt, and over 
which Egypt had no more authority than England has over China, 
had actually been leased out to adventurers of the class known 
as merchants at Khartoum, but thoroughly well known to the 
authorities as slave-hunters. 

It was hardly credible that such dust should be thrown in the 
eyes of the Khedive, after the stringent orders he had given ; but 
Egypt is celebrated for dust ; the Soudan is little else but dust, 
therefore we must make some allowance for the blindness of the 
authorities. My eyes had evidently been filled with Khartoum 
dust, for it was only now upon my return from Tewfikeeyah that 
I discovered that which should have been made known to mo 
upon my first arrival from Cairo to command the expedition. It 
was the trader and lessee, Achmet Sheik Agad, who had applied 
to Mr. Higginbotham as a mediator, and he stated clearly a case 
of great hardship. He had paid annually about 3000Z. for the 
sole right of trading. Thus, if be paid rent for a monopoly of the 
ivory, and the government then started as traders in ivory in the 
country leased to him, he Avould be in the same position as a man 
who rented a cow at a fixed sum per week, but the owner, never- 
theless, insisted upon a right to her mill^. 

It would be a hard case upon the traders at any rate, even 
should they trade with equal rights to the government. 

There Avas no actual bartering of merchandise for ivory, neither 
was any merchandise shipped from Khartoum, except that required 
as clothing for the people who belonged to the slave-hunters' 
companies. If an honest, legitimate trade were commenced by the 
government, and law and order thoroughly established, it would 
become impossible for the slave- hunters to exist in the AYhite 
Nile districts. Their so-called trade consisted in harrying one 
country to procure cattle and slaves, which they exchanged for 
ivory in other districts. If a government Avere established, .such 
razzias must cease at once — and the Khartoum traders would be 
without an occupation. 

I had originally proposed that the districts of the White Nile 
south of latitude 1 4° N. should be placed under my command ; 
this, for some unexplained reason, was reduced to latitude 5° N., 
thus leaving the whole navigable river free from Gondokoro to 



74 



IS3IAILiA. 



[chap. v. 



Khartoum, unless I should assume the responsibility of liberating 
slaves and seizing the slavers wherever I might find them. This 
power I at once assumed and exercised, although I purposely 
avoided landing and visiting the slave-hunters' stations that were 
not within my jurisdiction. I regarded the river as we regard the 
high seas. 

It Avas clearly contrary to all ideas of equity that the govern- 
ment should purchase ivory in countries that had been leased to 
the traders. I was therefore compelled to investigate the matter 
with the assistance of Djiafter Pacha, who had made the contract 
in the name of the government. It was then explained that the 
entire Jlliite Nile ^ya3 rented by the traders. The government 
had assumed the right and monopoly of the river, and in fact of 
any part of Africa that could be reached, south of Khartoum ; 
thus no trader was permitted to establish himself, or even to start 
from Khartoum for the interior, until he should have obtained a 
lease from the government. If Central Africa had been already 
annexed, and the Egyptian government had been established 
throughout the country, I should not have complained ; but I 
now found that my mission from the Khedive placed me ^vithin 
" a house divided against itself." I was to annex a country that 
was already leased out by the government. 

My task was to suppress the slave trade, when the Khartoum 
authorities well knew that their tenants were slave-hunters ; to 
establish legitunate commerce where the monopoly of trade had 
alread}' been leased to traders ; and to build up a government 
upon sound and just principles, that must of necessity ruin the 
slave-hunting and ivory-collecting parties of Khartoum. 

It was easy to conceive that my mission was regarded as fatal 
to the interests of the Soudan. Although the actual wording of 
the contracts was pure, and the lessees bound themselves to abstain 
from slave-hunting, and to behave in a becoming manner, it was 
thoroughly understood that they were simply to pay a good round 
sum per annum punctually, and that no questions would be asked. 
There were no authorities of the government in those distant 
coimtries, neither consular agents to send home unpleasant 
reports : thus, when fairly aAvay from all restraint, the traders 
could act as they pleased. It appears hardly credible that al- 
though the wording of the contracts was almost holy, no exam- 
ination of the vessels was made before their departure from 
Khartoum. Had the Soudan government been sincere in a deter- 
mination to lease out the White Xile for the purpose of benefit- 
ing the country by the establishment of legitimate commerce, 



CHAP, v.] 



SINCERITY OF THE KHEDIVE. 



75 



surely the authorities would have convinced themselves that the 
traders' vessels contained cargoes of suitable merchandise, instead 
of being loaded with ammunition, and manned by bands of armed 
pirates. 

If the owner of a pack of wolves were to send them on a 
commission to gather wool from a flock of sheep, Avith the simple 
protection of such parting advice as " Begone, good wolves, be- 
have yourselves like lambs, and do not hurt the mutton ! " the 
proprietor of the pack would be held responsible for the acts of 
his wolves. This was the situation in the Soudan. The entire 
country was leased out to piratical slave-hunters, under the name 
of traders, by the Khartoum government ; and although the rent, 
in the shape of large sums of money, had been received for years 
into the treasury of the Soudan, my expedition was to explode 
like a shell among the traders, and would at once annihilate the 
trade. I now understood the reason for the alteration in my pro- 
posed territorial hmit from the 14^ lat. to the 5°. Khartoum 
is in lat. 15° 35' JST. Gondokoro is JST. lat. 4° 54', thus, if my 
jurisdiction should be reduced to the south of Gondokoro, the 
usual traffic of the White Nile might continue in the north during 
my absence in the south, and the original contracts would be 
undisturbed. 

It is a duty that I owe to the Khedive of Egypt to explain 
these details. It would at first sight aj)pear that the expedition 
to suppress the slave-trade was merely a theatrical announcement 
to court the sympathy of Europe, but which, in realit}'-, had no 
solidity. I am perfectly convinced that the Khedive was 
thoroughly sincere in his declared purpose of supj)ressing the 
slave-trade, not only as a humanitarian, but as an enlightened 
man of the world, who knew, from the example of the great 
Powers of Europe, that the time had arrived when civilization 
demanded the extinction of such horrors as were the necessary ad- 
juncts of slave-hunting. The Khedive had thus determined to 
annex the Mle Basin, and establish his government, which would 
afford protection, and open an immense country to the advantages 
of commerce. This reform must be the death-blow to the so- 
called traders of Khartoum, who were positively the tenants of 
the governor-general of the Soudan. 

The expedition of the Khedive, launched with admirable 
determination on his part, was thus inimical to every local 
interest, and was in direct opposition to public opinion. It was 
therefore a natural consequence that pressure should be exerted 
by every interest against the governor-general of the Soudan. 



16 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. v. 



Djiaffer Pacha was an old friend of mine, for whom I had a gi-eat 
personal regard, and I regretted the false position in which botli 
he and I were placed. My title and position as governor-general 
of Central Africa to a certain extent weakened his authority. 

He had by the force of circumstances, and according to former 
usages, so far tolerated the acts of the White l!^ile traders as to 
acknowledge them as contracting parties with his own government. 
The most important lessee had no less than ten stations situated 
within the territory under my jurisdiction, for which he Avas 
paying a large annual rent. I knew, and the lessee, Achmet 
Sheik Agad, well knew, that his so-called trade was simply 
brigandage. My former travels, as described in "The Albert 
N'yanza," had led me behind the curtain, and the traders were 
well aware that I knew every secret of their atrocities ; thus my 
reappearance upon the scene with rank of pacha and major-general, 
at the head of a small army, together with the possession of ab- 
solute and supreme power, threw the entire population into a state 
of consternation. The traders, as Mohammedans and subjects, 
trusted to the protection of their own governor-general. Already 
I had caj^tured their vessels, imprisoned their agents, liberated 
their slaves, and confiscated the ivory, subject to the decision of 
the Khedive. Already I had caught the governor himself (Ali 
Bey of Fashoda) in the act of kidnapping helpless women and 
children, whom I had immediately insisted upon liberating, 
although I had no legal jurisdiction in his province. I simply 
depended upon the personal support of the Khedive, whose sin- 
cerity I never doubted ; thus I acted as I firmly believed the 
Khedive would have desired me to act under tlie circumstances. 
The Khedive proved that my confidence in his sincerity was well 
founded. He at once dimissed from his service and disgraced 
the governor of Faslioda. These facts cast shadows of coming- 
events. The Soudan authorities were compromised ; my inter- 
ference in the Shillook country was naturall}^ distasteful to the 
governor-general. Both the government of the Soudan and the 
traders at Khartoum perceived that I should act in strict ac- 
cordance with the instructions I had received from the Khedive. 
Tliere was no hope left, except in delays, that might render an 
advance impossible with a heavily-laden fleet through the ob- 
structions of the river. 

It was necessary to modify the terms of the contract entered 
into between the governor-general and Sheik Achmet Agad. 
This trader represented his case to me as one of considerable 
injustice, which I was forced to acknowledge. As a mark of 



CHAP, v.] 



ABOU SAOOD. 



77 



respect to .DjiafFer Paclia, who had originally entered into the 
contract, I requested him to arrange the terms of the new agTeo- 
ment together with myself in the public divan. It was argued 
by Sheik Aclunet Agad that the fact of the government being 
established in countries where he had been independent would 
cause a great loss to his trade, as it would upset the confidence 
of the natives, and they would cease to bring ivory for sale. In 
reality, this argument should be interpreted ; If the government 
is estal)lished, there will be an end to our razzias, and we shall 
have neither slaves nor cattle to offer in exchange for ivory." 

He also justly argued that "it would be unfair should the 
government purchase ivory from countries already leased for 
trading purposes to the merchant." 

I therefore arranged that, until the expiration of his original 
contract, no ivory should be purchased by the government. 

Also, that instead of the money payment now annually made 
to the government, the rent should be paid in ivory, at the rate 
of two-fifths of the amount collected. The ivory was to bo 
delivered and weighed in Gondokoro, at which place the rent was 
to be paid to the government in tusks. 

The original contract would expire on April 9, 1872. 

My hands were to a certain extent tied by these engagements, 
but I resolved that at the expiration of the term I should assume 
a monopoly of the ivory trade for the government, on the principle 
of the fur trade of the Hudson's Bay Company ; as it would bo 
impossible to permit the acts of the Khartoum traders, who, I 
was convinced, would never deal honestly with the natives. 

The working representative of Achmet Sheik Agad was his 
son-in-law — a man named Abou Saood : I had seen this person 
when at Tewfikeeyah ; he had arrived in charge of several vessels 
from Gondokoro during the rainy season, when the flooded river 
and strong south wind had allowed the passage of his boats. At 
that time he had no slaves on board, but I subsequently dis- 
covered that upon hearing that I had formed a station near the 
Sobat, he had discharged a large cargo of slaves at the station of 
Kutchuk Ali on the Bahr Giraffe, so as to pass Tewfikeeyah in 
a state of innocence and purity, and thus save the confiscation of 
his ivory. This man was present at the divan when the fmal 
agreement was signed by myself and his principal. He vowed 
fidelity in so forcible a manner that I entertained serious doubts 
of his sincerity. An arrangement was entered into, that he was 
to supply the government troops with beef, mutton, butter, &c., 
together with the native carriers for the transport of baggage, 



78 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. v. 



stores, &c., at an established rate then agreed upon ; tlie provisions 
were to be delivered from the resources at his comiQand at his 
various stations. In the event of any native war, he was to 
furnish assistance when called upon by the government for 
irregular troops, of which he had about 1,800 in the districts 
included in my territory. 

I did not admire the personal appearance of Abou Saood. A 
judge of physiognomy would have objected to the downcast look 
of humility, the 2^?z-certain squint of one eye, the furtive expression 
of countenance, added to the idtra-holiness of his ejacidations 
when called upon for an answer, and the pious cant of his 
protestation against all wrong-doings. At the same time that he 
was acting the part of saint, I knew him to be a bird of the same 
feather as the rest of the White Xile slave-hunters. 

Some little diplomacy was necessary to smooth the troubled 
waters of Khartoum. I made every allowance for the passive 
obstructiveness of the authorities ; it was perfectly natural under 
the circumstances of a sudden reform that affected materially the 
interests of the entire population^ both higli and low. At the 
same time, it was necessary to win the game. I was much 
attached to Djiaffer Pacha in his unofficial capacity, as I could 
never forget the kindness that I had received from him at Souakim 
when lie welcomed my wife and myself on our return from a 
long and arduous expedition. He was a perfectly honest man 
in his dealings, and most generous to all around him. His great 
desire was to earn a good reputation, thus he was not sufficiently 
vigilant or severe with the sub-officials throughout the vast 
territory wliich he governed. 

He had formerly been an admiral in the Egyptian navy, and 
he had visited England, where he had learnt to respect the 
English name of " gentleman." To be considered a " gentleman " 
(which he pronounced in English), was in his estimation a great 
honour. 

I was delighted with the lasting impression that had been 
made by the manners of our country ; and certainly, in courtesy 
and hospitality, Djiaffer Pacha thoroughly represented the 
qualities of the name he coveted. AVTienever we differed in 
opinion upon official matters, we were always cordial in our 
private capacity. 

On 6th October the post arrived from Cairo with the astound- 
ing news of the battle of Sedan; the capture of the Emperor 
ISTapoleon ; the revolution in Paris ; and the fall of the Napoleon 
dynasty ! Never were so many grave events condensed in one 



OHAP. v.] 



NEWS ARRIVES OF SEDAN. 



79 



despatch. I felt much for de Bizemont : he had become a 
general favourite, and I had received him con amove as one of our 
party. This was a blow too terrible even for his high spirit. 
He had received the greatest kindness from the emperor and 
empress, and his loyalty was shown by the deepest grief, and an 
immediate resolve to give up the expedition, and to return to 
share the trembling fortunes of his country. We had om^selves 
received much kindness from the empress. Only a few days 
before this grave news arrived, my wife had received a token from 
her Majesty, graciously bestowed when she was in power and 
prosperity ; this was now more deeply prized since adversity had 
fallen so heavily upon her. 

De Bizemont had vigorously commenced his work as a member 
of the expedition by accompanying the sections of the third 
steamer from Cairo to Berber. The desert journey was intrusted 
to the great sheik of the Arabs, Hussein Halifa, who had already 
so notably distinguished himself in the transport of the two 
steamers that had arrived with Mr. Higginbotham. I was very 
sorry to say good-bye, and I parted with de Bizemont and his 
companion, Le Blanc, with sincere regret. 

I had now set everything in order ; the vessels were loaded. 
On 10th October, 1870, I find this entry in my journal : — 

"Started for Tewfikeeyah. Thankful to be free from that 
hateful spot, Khartoum. !N'othing can exceed the misery of the 
place at this season. No drainage— mud — dense population, 
with exaggerated stench. These enemies to civilization have at 
length vanquished the European settlers. 

*'Djiaffer Pacha, accompanied by all the big people, came on 
board to take an official farewell : embracing — bands of music — 
salutes of cannon — steam up, and off, thank God ! — I with a 
horrid cold and Julian with nasty fever." 

We were short of hands for wood-cutting, thus we only 
arrived at Tewfilieeyah on 2 2d October. The river was now at 
its maximum, and had risen at this spot from the lowest level of 
the dry season, fourteen feet and one inch. 

We were now busily employed, as I had arranged to start the 
first division of the fleet for Gondokoro on the 1st December. 

On 25th October several vessels attempted to pass the station 
with slaves. All were captured and the slaves hberated. 

" Many of the women slaves who were released from the slave 
vessels at the first capture seemed thoroughly to realize the 
principle of liherte, fraterniU, egalite^ as they ran away during 
the night, not only with their new clothes recently given them 



80 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. v. 



by the government, but tliey also stole some of the soldiers' kit. 
It is very difficult to manage these people. The fact of their 
having been kidnapped by the slave-hunters destroys all 
confidence, and they cannot understand their true position. It 
is difficult to persuade them that the government has interfered 
in their behalf simply with a view to their Avelfare ; they imagine 
that we have some ulterior object in their release; and many 
have a strong suspicion that they may at some future time be 
transported to some distant country and sold. They have been 
so often deceived that they cannot understand the truth; and 
having been accustomed to brutal treatment, they cannot compre- 
hend the intention of kindness, which they attribute to a wish 
to deceive them. This is a dreadfid state of moral degradation, 
which nothing but time and patience will overcome." 

On the 23rd November the wind began steadily from the 
north. I was nearly ready. Every vessel had been thorouglily 
repaired, but many were so rotten tliat the caulking was con- 
sidered by the English shipwrights as quite unreliable for a long 
voyage. I had dragged the iron diahbeeah out of the water, and 
had substituted new plates in many places where the metal was 
honeycombed with rust. The plate that had been pierced by 
the tusks of the hippopotamus was removed, as it proved to be 
very defective, and could be broken through with the blow of a 
heavy hammer, therefore it was not astonishing that it had been 
easily penetrated by the sharp ivory of so powerful an animal. 

When the diahbeeah w^as re-launched, I had her thoroughly 
painted inside and out. In the mean time, I had formed a Eobin- 
son-Crusoe-lilie house, comprising two small rooms, open on the 
river-side, but secured at night and morning by simple Venetian 
blinds. The three sides were closed with planks. I had paved 
tlie floor Avith the cast-iron plates of the steamer's engine room, 
thus it was both level and proof against the white ants. Tlie 
two rooms w^ere separated by a partition with a doorway, but uo 
door. 

I had not resided in a house since I first occupied the diah- 
beeah, ten months ago, as the vessel was more convenient. 

On the 29th Xovember, at about four a.m., I was awakened 
by a noise in the adjoining room. My bedstead Avas exactly 
opposite the partition doorway ; that of my wife was on the other 
side of the room. At first I thought the sound proceeded from 
rats scampering over the tin boxes ; but upon listening attentively, 
I distinctly heard the lid of a metal box opened by some person, 
and again carefully closed. 



OHAP. v.] 



A THIEF AT NIGHT. 



81 



After a few moments, I heard another box open, and a sound 
as though some one was searching among the contents. 

Unfortunately my bedstead was the most horrible creaker, 
in which it was impossible to turn without producing a noise 
that would create an alarm, should a thief be on the alert. 

I always slept with a j)istol under my pillow, therefore, I 
gently grasped the revolver in my hand, and endeavoured quietly 
to got out of my noisy bed. 

The wretched piece of furniture gave the most alarming creak ; 
this was immediately succeeded by a sound in the next room of 
the sudden closing of a box, and the movement of some person. 
I could not be sure that it was not Lady Baker, who had perhaps 
required something from a box, and did not wish to disturb me. 
This was not likely, and I felt that no time must be lost, as my 
bedstead had given the alarm. I therefore sprang out of bed 
and rushed through the open doorway, just in time to see some 
person jump through the Venetian blinds on the river side of the 
house. 

To cry out " Who's there 1 " and to fire a shot was the work of 
an instant, and jumping after him in pursuit I found myself in 
darkness, and no one visible outside my house. Where was the 
sentry 1 Nowhere ! 

At the cry of " Guard 1 " not a soul appeared ; the sentry was 
not to be found. At length, after a search, he turned up in the 
wrong place, looking confused, and confessed that he had been 
asleep, but awakened by the sound of a shot. By this time a 
number of non-commissioned officers had arrived, who had been 
alarmed by the pistol-shot and the cry of " Guard !" The sentry 
Avas put under arrest. A search was made everywhere, but no 
trace of the thief could be found. On making an examination of 
the premises, we found a dirty shirt that the thief had in his 
hurry left behind him ; this was evidently intended to receive 
the spoil in lieu of a bag. I could not find the trace, of a bullet- 
mark either upon the planks or upon the Venetian blinds, there- 
fore, I considered that the thief must have been hit, or if missed, 
the ball must have passed out as he pushed the blinds aside when 
in the act of springing through. 

I suspected the sentry, who was an Egyptian belonging to the 
" Forty Thieves." He was stripped and examined, but there was 
no wound. All the shirts were alike, therefore the shirt in my 
possession was no clae. My wife had been startled, but she 
quickly recovered herself ; the sentry was flogged, and there the 
matter ended ; we had no London detectives. 

Q 



82 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. VI. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

THE START. 

December 11. — The first division of tlie fleet, composed of eiglit 
vessels, liad started, according to my previous arrangement, on 
1st inst. Every third or fourth day another division followed 
the advance, until on the lltli I brought up the rear, and com- 
pleted the departure with twenty-six vessels, including the ISTo. 
10 steamer and my dialibeeah. The wind was fair from the 
north. 

Tlie extensive and neat station of Tewfikeeyah was conq^letely 
dismantled. The iron magazines and their contents were now 
safely stow^ed in the various ships, and Avere already on their 
voyage towards Gondokoro. The horses were shipped and the 
stables had been pulled do^^m, and the wood cut up for fuel. 
The long rows of wdiite tents had vanished, and little remained 
of the station except a few rows of deserted huts. It seemed ex- 
traordinary that so large a place could be packed up and stowed 
away among the fifty-nine vessels of the fleet. 

The English shipwrights had constructed three very useful 
boats, each exactly the same size, about 16 ft. x 5 ft. ; thus wo 
had a total of seven small boats to assist in the explorations of 
the obstructed river. 

I left the Shillook country at peace. DjiafFer Pacha had paid 
much attention to the sons of Quat Kare at Khartoum, and the 
Khedive, in reply to my representations, had appointed him chief 
of the country in place of the pretender Jangy. The governor of 
Eashoda had been condemned to disgrace. I left a handsome 
present for tlie old king Quat Kare, and we departed excellent 
friends. The English party had been reduced by the departure 
of Mr. AVood, Dr. Gedge, and two servants. 

AVe had been deeply grieved by the sad news of the death of 
Dr. Gedge, at Khartoum, a few days before we broke up the 
station of Tewfikeeyah. This unfortunate gentleman was a great 
loss to the expedition, as he was not only my chief medical 
officer, but combined the scientific attainments of a botanist and 
naturalist. 

I had made every preparation for cutting thi'ough the sudd, 
and we were well prepared with many hundred sharp bill-hooks, 



OHAP. VI.] 



THE RAMADAN. 



8^ 



switching-hooks, bean-hooks, sabres, &c. I had also some hun- 
dred miners' spades, shovels, &c., in case it might be necessary to 
deepen the shallows. While the whole English party were full 
of spirit and determined to succeed, I regret to say there was a 
general feeling of disappointment among the Egyptian troops 
(including officers) that the exjDcdition was once again in full sail 
towards the south. Their heai^ts were either at Khartoum, or 
sighing for the llesli-pots of Egypt. I had lost many men from 
sickness during our sojourn at Tewfikeeyah, and the ]nen were 
disheartened and depressed. This feeling was increased by the 
unfortunate recurrence of the fast of Eamadan, during which 
month the Mohammedans will neither eat, drink, nor smoke from 
sunrise till sunset. The Koran exempts them from the observ- 
ance of this pernicious fast when on a long journey, but my 
people preferred to keep it religiously, as it would be a plausil^lo 
excuse for neglecting work. 

The ISTile was full and unusually high ; this was in favour of 
the voyage, as success depended upon our crossing the shallows 
during the flood ; it was, therefore, necessary to pusli on v/ith all 
speed so as to reach the shallows which had been im23a?,sable last 
April, before the river should fall. 

It will now be necessary to refer to my original journal, as it 
would be difficult to convey an idea of the voyage by a general 
description. A few hours after starting, on 11th December 1870, 
I find this entry : — " Thank goodness, we are off, and in good 
time, as the river is exceedingly high, although it has already 
fallen about five inches from its maximum. Mr. Higgijibotliam 
has been ill for a long time. Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, 
my first aide-de-camp, although an excellent officer, is almost 
useless from ill-health ; thus the whole work falls on myself and 
Julian (Lieutenant Baker) personally, and had I not driven the 
officers forward, from sunrise to sunset, we should not have been 
off for another two months. These miserable j^eople do not 
understand energy, and the Ramadan increases their incapacity. 

"December 12. — At 2.30 a.m., we were hailed when ten 
minutes "within the Eahr Giraffe, by two noggurs (vessels) in 
distress. Stopped the steamer immediately, and then heard that 
the IsTo. 15 noggur, their consort, had sunk in deep water, close 
to this spot. 

"At day-break I searched the river, and discovered the wreck 
in eighteen feet depth of water. Two good divers worked for 
about two hours, and recovered three muskets and several copper 
cooking pots belonging to the soldiers. The story of the reig 

G 2 



84 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. VI. 



(captain) is, that she sprang a plank at about 4 a.m., six days ago, 
while under sail with a light wind, and she filled and sank immedi- 
ately, the men having barely time to save themselves. Unfortu- 
nately, she had on board, in addition to one hundred urdeps of 
corn (450 bushels), a section of one of Samuda's steel lifeboats ; 
this was placed upon the corn, before the mast, but having an air- 
tight compartment, it must have floated away in the dark without 
being noticed. 

" The story of the reis is false ; there can be no doubt that the 
crew and soldiers were fast asleep, and the vessel was run into by 
one of her consorts. Had the people been awake, the least move- 
ment of the helm would have run the vessel high and dry in this 
narrow river, as the banks are flooded, and she was close to the 
side. As the collision occurred, the people, suddenly awakened 
from sleep, were seized with panic, and only thought of saving 
themselves ; thus the noggur lies in three-fathom water, and the 
invaluable section of a lifeboat is lost. The worry and disappoint- 
ment, together with the loss of property, occasioned by these 
people, is beyond all description. Every man detests the expe- 
dition. The boats are nearly all old and rotten, and with such 
wretched material I have to conduct this fleet with 30,000?. worth 
of property. I dread the probable loss of some vessel laden with 
sections of the lake steamers, in which case the expedition would 
be ruined in spite of all my care. I trust that the floating 
portion of the life boat may be picked up by some of Agad's vessels 
in the rear. 

"Leaving the hopeless wreck, we continued the voyage at 
10.50 A.M., in company with the two noggurs, with a brisk 
north wind. At 5.20 p.m., we stopped at a forest to collect 
firewood. 

December 14. — Started at 7.30 a.m. Thermometer, Fahren- 
heit, at 6 A.M., 67°; noon, 85°. This is the lowest temperature 
we have had. 

" Passed a number of our vessels, one having broken her yard. 
At 12.5 stopped at a forest to fdl up A^dth wood. AVhile looking 
for wood, a soldier found a dead elephant with tusks that weighed 
about 1201bs. I gave him a present of live dollars, also one 
dollar to Saat for having recovered from the sunken vessel the 
cooking pots and muskets. 

'*Wind very strong from north. The north wind always 
commences at about 7 a.m. and increases in power as the sun 
rises. It sinks together with the setting sun. Although the 
country is all that wo could wish, there is no game. The water- 



CHAP. TI.] 



WRECK OF A VESSEL. 



85 



marks upon the trees show that the maximum of the river has 
been a foot above its present leveL 

December 16. — Suleiman EfFendi's diahbeeah with six 
horses passed this morning ; he left in company with us, as did 
also the new noggur that passed us yesterday morning ; thus 
there must be gross negligence on the part of the twenty-one 
vessels still remaining in the rear. Thermometer, 6 a.m., 69°; 
noon, 88°. We shot seven guinea-fowl. 

" Deeemher 17. — I see four vessels about six miles ahead that 
are only now making sail ! thus they have been stopping for two 
days. In the afternoon the two diahbeeahs of the Englishmen 
came up, and gave us the terrible news that one of the vessels 
had sunk near the mouth of the river Sobat on the day of our 
departure from Tewfikeeyah ; this vessel was laden with portions 
of the 38-ton steamer. 

" I immediately ordered steam to be got up, and at 4.20 p.m. 
wo started to return 120 miles to the wreck. It appears that 
Raouf Bey, with many other vessels, was in company with the 
lost noggur. To work in this country is simply heart-breaking ; 
the material is utterly worthless, boats, officers, and men are aU 
alike. The loss of invaluable time is ruinous, and the ignorance 
of the people is such that they can do nothing by themselves ; 
thus I must be everywhere and superintend everthing personally. 

The boatmen say the rats drag out the rags with which the 
vessels are caulked from within, thus occasioning sudden and 
dangerous leaks ; but in such a case, why does not the captain 
run his vessel ashore to prevent sinking 1 

" Before starting, I despatched aletter by a vessel to Suleiman 
Effendi at the sudd, with orders to commence clearing the channel 
without loss of time. 

" At 7.40 P.M. made out a light ahead, and shortly afterwards 
we met Raouf Bey's diahbeeah tied to the bank alongside of 
Achmet Effendi, the bimbashi's vessel. Eaouf Bey came on 
board and confirmed the bad news. They describe the sunken 
vessel as lying with her stem about a foot below the surface, but 
her stern is in very deep water. I gave orders for steam to be 
up at daylight, and we halted for the night, as it is dangerous 
to travel down stream v^^ith a steamer in this narrow winding 
river. 

''December 18.— Started at 6.25 a.m. Ther., 68°; noon, 81°. 
At noon we met Colonel Tayib Agha and twelve vessels. I 
ordered three of these vessels to turn back immediatel}^ to the 
wreck, as I am determined to raise her, if possible. 



86 



ISMAILIA. 



[oHAP. vr. 



"At 12.37 P.M. we reached tlie spot where we liad passed the 
first AATeck in the Bahr Giraffe. At exactly 2 p.m. we reached 
the IsTiie junction. At 6.50 p.m. we distinguished the mast of 
the wreck above water, ahnost opposite the Sobat junction, on 
the west side of the river. Having passed the wreck we reached 
our old station Te^^^keeyah at 7.30 p.m. Here we found a 
number of Shillooks, with Quat Kare's counsellor, Abdullah, 
who were guarding a quantity of corn that I had left in the 
king's charge, as our A^essels Vvere too heavily laden to carry it. 

December 19. — Thermometer, 6 a.m., 64°; noon, 79°. I sent 
Abdullah with orders to the king, Quat Kare, to collect all his 
people with their ambatch canoes to assist us in raising the 
Avreck. 

The Shillooks have already taken possession of our old station, 
and have divided it into lots for planting. 

^'December 20. — Thermometer at 6 a.m., 66°; noon, 78°; the 
water in the goolah (cooler), 59°. The wind blows a gale from 
the north daily. 

"I have just heard that Eaouf Bey and the two colonels, 
Tayib Agha and Achmet Efifendi, together with about 400 men, 
actually abandoned, not only the wrecked vessel and her invalu- 
able cargo, but tliey also left a section of one of the lifeboats 
upon the mud bank of the river and forsook it. Such conduct 
is incredible, and could only be found in this country. 

"At 3.15 P.M., the steamer having replenished her wood, we 
started and arrived at the wreck at 4.35 p.ii. After a careful 
examination we passed the night at the high ground near the 
So})at junction. 

" The section of the lifeboat is no longer on the mud, but I 
have no doubt it has been secured by the governor of Fashoda, 
together with the yard and sail. This entails the necessity of 
my sending him a letter seventy miles distant to order the return 
of the boat section immediately. 

"December 21. — Thermometer at 6 a.m., 63°; water in 
goolah, 62° I sent Abdullah JJz Bashi to Tewfilvceyah with a 
Litter to the governor of Fashoda, which the Shillooks were to 
forward immediately. The letter demands eight oxen, ten sheep, 
the section of lifeboat saved from the wreck, together with the 
yard and sail. 

" I shot two small antelopes, also some guinea-fowl, francoliu 
partridge, and five pelicans. 

December 22. — Waiting for the arrival of Quat Kare and 
his Shillooks. Shot two geese and knocked over a large antelope, 



OHAP. VI.] ATTEMPTS TO SAVE THE WRECK. 



87 



but lost liini in tlie high grass. The country is all flooded, 
except for a space of about a mile from our little camp on the 
Sobat dubba, which is the highest ground for a great distance, 
being about fourteen feet above the maximum level of the river. 
A few Shillooks started off after my wounded antelope, and 
quickly brought me the head : it was a fine specimen of the new 
species of Hlppotragus. 

" December 23. — I sent the steamer up the White Mle to 
bring down the wind-bound kyassas (vessels). When she re- 
turned with, them, all hands were immediately employed in 
discharging cargo and taking down masts and yards in readiness 
for operations on the sunken vessel. 

''December 24. — Tliermometer, 6 a.m., 67°; noon, 82°. 
Abdullah, the Shillook, arrived. The natives have not for- 
warded my letter to the governor of Faslioda, as tiiey fear to pass 
certain villages Avith which they have been lately quarrelling. 
To-day is the close of the Eamadan fast, and the first of the 
Bairam, therefore it is kept as a holiday. All my people have 
turned out in new clothes. 

" December 25. — Christmas Day. Thermometer, 6 a.m., 65°. 
We began work at the sunken vessel. By filling the barges with 
water and sinking them within a foot of the surface, and then 
securing them by chains to the wreck, we obtained a firm hold. 
The water having been baled out of the barges, they gradually 
rose and lifted the vessel several feet. Having thus raised her, 
we hauled her a few feet nearer the bank, and the day's work 
concluded by proving that with care and additional force we 
shall be able to manage her. 

" December 26. — We continued the same operations as those 
of yesterday. Having lashed the masts of the barges trans- 
versely across the gun-wales, to these we attached chains secured 
by divers beneath the bottom of the wreck. This was not 
possible yesterday until we had lifted her from the ground. At 
the same time that we were thus engaged, the men, by diving, 
secured ropes to the heavier pieces of iron sections, and we saved 
several tons of her cargo, which we placed upon the steamer and 
ujjon my diahbeeah. This lighfened the wreck, and we then 
prepared a bed for her by cutting away the abnqit bank, and 
forming a shelf on the flooded shore in a depth of three feet 
of water, upon which we might be able to haul her when floated 
to the surface. We laid out the steamer's purchase with an 
anchor secured upon the shore, and the day ended successfully 
by hauling the wreck exactly parallel to the bank, with her stem 



88 



ISMAlLlA. 



[OHAP. VI. 



and stern-post alDOve the surface. As the current was very 
powerful, the bow of the wreck had throughout the operation 
been firmly secured by two anchors kid out up stream. It is 
very hard work, as we are in tlie sun from early morning till 
night. Julian (Lieutenant Eaker), being a sailor, is just the 
fellow for this sort of work, and no other person knows how to 
make fast the ropes and chains so that they shall not slip. 
Higginbotham, as usual, is very energetic. Colonel Abd-el- 
Ivader, who is my only reliable Egyptian officer, has been diving 
all day like a wild duck, and bringing up hea^^y^ boxes of rivets 
which few men but himself can lift. Altogether the men have 
worked famously, especially the black soldiers. 

"December 27. — Julian is laid up with fever to-day; this is 
the effect of daily exposure to the ^un. I laid out the steamer's 
second purchase at right angles fastened to the bow of the 
wreck ; we thus had her bow and stern secured in the same 
manner. Having manned both purchases, we could manage her 
as she became lighter. About 250 Shillooks came to assist us 
under the command of old Quat Kare, who sat in his canoe and 
directed his people. Having lightened the vessel by taking out 
more cargo, I divided the labour ; Higgmbotham sinking two 
kyassas and making them fast as lifters, while other men cut 
away the flooded bank with spades and improved the shelf. 

"After breakfast, the sunken kyassas being well" secured to 
the wreck with chains, we baled them out for the last time, and 
the vessel thus supported came bodily to the surface. All hands 
now hauled on the purchases, while the Shillooks, with screams 
and yells, tugged at four ropes fastened amidships, and we 
succeeded in dragging the vessel from the river's bed, and placing 
her upon the new shelf that we had prepared for her in little 
more than three feet of water. During this time many men had 
been baling out with largo buckets, and now that she was safe, 
a general rush was made on board to empty the water with every 
conceivable utensil — gourd-shells, basins, cooking pots, &c. 

"When baled out, we discovered and stopped the leaks, and 
floated her. She was one of the lai'gest and finest vessels of the 
fleet, perfectly new, and was laden ^\it\l steamer sections and 
machinery, the loss of Avhich would have been fatal to the object 
of the expedition. 

" I ran a flag up the mast as a signal to those at the station 
that she was safe. I then ordered the steamer to light her fires, 
and the Avrcck, together with the two kyassas and my diahbeeah, 
were taken in tow, and delivered at the bank that w^e had made 



OHAP. VI.] 



THE NEW YEAR. 



89 



our head-quarters. Thus we have happily saved the vessel and 
cargo that had been so disgracefully abandoned, when a large 
force was at hand to have assisted her. 

During the morning, a vessel arrived from Khartoum, laden 
with goods on speculation, from a French trader of my acquaint- 
ance, Monsieur Jules Poncet. She also brought the section of 
the lifeboat which my officers had neglected on the wreck, and 
which the governor had taken to Fashoda. 

Decemher 28. — I sent the steamer to Fashoda for the sail 
and yard of the wrecked vessel. All hands are engaged in 
caulking ship, re-hoisting yards, rigging, &c., and refitting. 
Thermometer, 6 a.m., 66°; noon, 81°. 

Decemher 29. — Thermometer, 6 a.m., 66°; noon, 81° Julian 
and Higginbotham both ill with fever. Vessels progressing. 

December 30. — I shot a water-buck at daybreak {Redunca 
Ellipsyprimna). Yesterday evening, Quat Kare and his two 
favourite wives came to take leave. I gave him a musical box: 
and a meerschaum pipe, with a lovely woman's face carved on 
the bowl. He was very much amused with the idea of the 
smoke issuing from the head. I also gave his wives some grey 
calico, red handkerchiefs, and gaudy ear-rings. They went 
away delighted. 

"At 9 P.M., the steamer's boat came up to report her arrival at 
Tewfikeeyah. I immediately sent off a kyassa to join her for a 
cargo of wood. 

December 31. — The steamer arrived with the kyassa in tow 
at 11 A.M., with an immense supply of wood, together with ten 
oxen and ten sheep from Fashoda. The wreck will be taken in 
tow by the steamer, as her yard was taken on the day of the 
accident by Colonel Tayib Agha. She is now the most valuable 
vessel in the fleet. The new year 1871 commences well. 

" JaniLary 1st, 1871. — At 1.30 p.m., I started the kyassas, 
having kept back twenty men from their complement of troops 
to man the vessel we have saved. Abdullah, the Shillook, came, 
and I gave him an order to receive half the corn that I left at 
Tewfikeeyah. This is a reward for Quat Kare, for having assisted 
to raise the sunken vessel with his people. The extraordinary 
rise in the river this season has destroyed a large portion of the 
Shillook crops, therefore the present of corn will be most 
acceptable to the old king. 

January 2. — At 8.35 a.m., we started in tow of the steamer. 
Wind fresh from the noith. Ai 2.40 p.m. we passed the second of 
the three noggurs that sailed yesterday, and at 3 p.m. we passed 



90 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VI. 



the third exactly at the Giraffe junction. We have thus been six 
hours and twenty-five minutes from the Sobat to the Giraffe 
junction. Thermometer, 6 a.m., 66°; noon, 86°. 

January 3. — Last midnight stopped at a forest cutting wood; 
we started at 3.50 p.m. One of the rear boats came in sight at 
11 A.M., which reached us at 3.40 p.m. 

Janminj i. — At 5.50 a.m. we actually overtook the nine 
vessels with Tayib Agha that we had left seventeen days ago ; 
these miserable people have thus been wasting their time. The 
trading vessel of Jules Poncet, that left the Sobat only six days 
ago, is in sight ahead ; thus she has in six days passed the boats 
that have been twenty-four days from the same starting-point. I 
took the sail belonging to the wrecked noggur from one, and 
passed ahead of all, except one that I kept back for repairs while 
we cut wood at the forest. 

" Januanj 5. — Arrived at Kutchuk All's station at 10.30 a.m., 
and took in wood. The country is all flooded, and both the 
natives and the traders are without corn, the crops having been 
destroyed by the extraordinary rise of the river. The people 
have no other grain than the scanty supply yielded by the seeds 
of the lotus, which they collect from the river. I met several 
men who had formerly served under Ibrahim, w^hen we accom- 
panied Khoorshood Agha's party to Unyoro many years ago. 

January 6. — Cutting wood. I wrote to Colonel Tayib 
Agha, desiring him to take in as much fuel as his vessels can 
stow, as there is no wood ahead. The vakeel of the station 
supplied five cows and six goats. I gave him five urdeps of 
dhurra (22 bushels). We started at 4 p.m. 

" January 7. — During the night, at 12.40 a.m., to my intense 
disgust, w^e passed a great number of our vessels with Eaouf Bey. 
Shortly after, w' e passed others, together with the boat of Achmet 
Eifendi, bimbashi. Tliese officers and people are incorrigible ; 
they have idled their time on the road to such an extent that I 
can only conclude it is done purposely. We wasted about an 
hour during the night in stopping to make inquiries. 

" At 11.30 a.m., we passed the solitary ambatch bush on the west 
bank where the steamer smashed her paddle last year. The wind 
is strong from the north. Last year Ave were five hours from the 
aml^atch bush to the dubba. We shall therefore arrive to-day at 
about 4 p.m. We have been exactly 19|- hours steaming from 
Kutchuk All's station to the ambatch. We left Tewfikeeyah at 
1 1 o'clock ; we have therefore been twenty-seven days to the 
spot at the dubba that we should reach this evening. Last year 



CHAP. VI.] 



COMMENCE CUTTING. 



91 



we left Khartoum on 8th February, and we arrived at the station 
in the following order : — 

February 15th — Fashoda. 16th — Sobat junction. 18th — 
Bahr Giraffe junction. March 2nd — arrived at the forest beyond 
Kutchuk Ali's station. This is the same spot where we overtook 
Eaouf Bey last night, hu having left Tewfikeeyah on 11th 
December. Thus he has been twenty-six days from Tewfikeeyah 
in reaching the spot this year which he arrived at from the great 
distance of Khartoum in our former voyage in twenty-two days! 
Last year the fleet was fourteen days on the voyage from the Sobat 
to the above spot ; this year they have been twenty-six days ! I 
believe thoroughly that they delay purposely, in the hope of 
thwarting the expedition. 

"Last year the Avliole fleet assembled at the dubba in twenty 
days from Fashoda. 

" We arrived at the dubba at 5.30 p.m.^ having been delayed 
two hours by obstructions and rapids. 

" January 8. — We cut through a horrid accumulation of 
floating rafts that have filled the ojDen space of last year 
between the dubba and the mouth of our old channel. This 
being completed, I ordered the boats to keep in close line until 
the arrival of the main body, otherwise the floating rafts would 
again block up the channel should the boats proceed. 

" January 9. — Hauled the dingy over the marsh, and explored 
the old channel for a distance of fifty minutes. Thank goodness, 
this was clear to that point, a distance of about two miles ; but 
at length we were stopped by vegetation. The latter is of a light 
character, and can be easily removed. Clouds of mosquitoes ; 
the dew very heavy at night. 

" Shot a Baleniceps Rex, with rifle. 
January 10. — At day-break we distinguished eight sail on 
the northern horizon. 

" January 11. — Brisk north wind. Eaouf Bey arrived in the 
evening. 

^'January 12. — Started and passed the choked river with 
much difficulty, and entered the channel of last year's clear- 
ing. 

" January 13. — We only made about two miles yesterday and 
to-day, being stopped by vegetation, 

'¦'January 14. — Cutting partially, but the channel is much 
improved since last year. Made two and a half miles. 

January 15. — Made three-quarters of a mile, and having 
reached the lake Timsah (crocodile lake) we found the river 



92 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VI. 



blocked up ; vre therefore cut our Tvay into an open but shallow 
channel wliich last year was impassable from want of depth. 
. January 16. — The diahbeeah went ahead, but the steamer 
and heavy vessels were much delayed by shallows. I went on 
and determined upon the passage, the open lake being visible 
about 600 yards distant. 

January 17. — Made about 300 yards of heavy cutting 
through rafts of vegetation. The lake of last year nearly choked 
up; about 100 acres of rafts having completely destroyed it. 

January 18. — Cut about 350 yards, and at 3.30 p.m. we 
entered the lake. From the mast-head it appears that an 
unbroken sheet of water now exists for some miles. I trust this 
may be true, and that no mirage deceives us. 

" January 19. — Sailed four miles, at which place we found a 
new channel coming from the south, while our channel of last 
year from, south-east appeared to be closed at half a mile dis- 
tance. Explored the new channel for about two miles; in 
ap]3earance it was a river of 200 or 300 yards wide. At length 
we arrived at a sudd of small dimensions with open water 
beyond. We returned to the junction, and passed the night at 
a sudd half a mile up our old channel. 

" January 20. — At 7 a.m. I took the dingy, and mth much 
difficulty pushed about a mile through the gTass until I found 
the whole country closed by vegetation. I think the river has 
opened a new channel, and that the passage of yesterday will 
take us to nearly the same spot above the sudd that we reached 
by another route last year. 

" Many vessels having arrived, I visited the Englishmen and 
physicked Eamsall and Mr. Higginbotham. At 4.15 p.m. we 
started, poling roiuid the angle to enter the new channel dis- 
covered yesterday. In the evening we all sailed with a light 
breeze, and found the river open for three and a half miles 
ahead. Halted for the night. 

January 21. — The river being closed ahead, I took tho 
dingy, and after much trouble succeeded in reaching our old 
channel in tlie clear river. Having started at 7 a.m., I returned 
at 1 P.M. I had sounded the channel the whole distance, and I 
have determined to cut a joassage through to-morrow. 

" January 22. — Cut 350 yards through heavy sudd. Last 
year this piece was GOO yards. We at length reached the small 
lake where we last year buried the two artillerymen in an 
ant-hill. 

January 23. — I took tho diahbeeah a mile and a quarter up 



CHAP. VI.] THE DIAIIBEEAH EXPLORES AHEAD. 



93 



the river, while the fleet was being squeezed through our spongy 
channel. 

. January 24. — Yesterday the five' vessels that were left 
behind by Eaouf Bey arrived, and the fleet assembled. 
( I am in great anxiety about Tayib Agha who has twelve 
vessels with him, none of which are yet in sight. . 

"This black colonel is not clever, and should an accident 
occur, he will bo at a loss how to act. Julian is unwell with 
fever, but Higginbotham is better. 

" I went a long way in the dingy, and succeeded in finding 
the true channel of the stream by probing with the twelve-foot 
polo through the grass. To-morrow we shall begin cutting, as 
the Avhole country is closed. 

" The tree that marks the open water of last year is about a 
mile and a half distant. There is a solitary dry spot near this, 
tlie heart of desolation — a tumulus of about half an acre, like 
the back of a huge tortoise, is raised about five feet above tbe 
highest water level. Upon tliis crocodiles love to bask in 
undisturbed sleep. 

" January 25. — The men cut about 300 yards. 
January 26. — We again accomplished about 300 yards, 
and pushed the vessels within the channel. 

January 27.— Wc are thankful for a comparatively open 
ditch, deep, but covered with grass, through which the diah- 
beeah cut her path by sailing before a strong breeze, and wo 
entered the lake at 11.20. a.m. There is no change here since 
last year. The steamer and fleet are close up, but there is a 
little deepening necessary at the mouth of the channel. The 
diahbeeah went ahead for six miles along the lake and broad 
river, and anchored for the night. 

'¦^ January 28. — With a light breeze, the diahbeeah sailed 
four miles, and stopped at the three dubbas, whence we turned 
back last year. Even now there is only three feet and a half 
of water, and we shall have great trouble. Our fisherman, 
Howarti, caught a great haul of line boulti with the casting-net. 

" Janimry 29. — I shot some ducks and geese. A slight 
shower fell in early morning. I explored about seven miles of 
the river in advance. The depth is very unsatisfactory, varying 
from shallows to deep channels. 

January 30. — The fleet joined in sections during last night 
and to-day. Set to work with the long-handled hoes, and cut a 
channel through the shallows for fifty yards, and took the 
vessels forward. 



94 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VI. 



January 31. — Cut a diannel through the shallows, but we 
could not get the steamer along. 

" Fehruary 1. — About 1,200 men at work cutting a channel 
and towing the steamer and noggurs through. The diahbecah 
and two noggurs passed ahead for about a mile. We then 
stopped to await the steamer and other vessels that were delayed 
by the powerful current. 

" Fehruary 2. — Stopped all day waiting for the steamer 
about a mile aliead of the noggurs. AYhen we left the dublja, I 
had left a letter in a bottle, addressed to Tayib Agha, to order 
liim to come on Avithout delay, and deepen the channels we have 
cut, should it be necessary. 

Fchniarij 3. — The steamer came up at 10 a.m. At 10.45 
the dialibceah made sail, and after two miles was delayed by a 
small sudd. Care must be taken to sail by the west branch of 
the two streams, as there is no water in the east channel. 

" For six miles we have had nothing but shallows. Even at 
this season there is only a de^^tli of four feet in many places, 
and a month hence the river will be impassable. 

" Tayib Agha's boats are in sight, about four miles distance, 
bearing north. We cut through the small sudd, and in a 
quarter of a mile, we arrived at an open water, very shallow : in 
many places only three feet deep. Stopped for the fleet, and 
upon arrival of the steamer and others, I had marked out the 
channel to be cleared. The men set to work immediately. I 
then passed ahead with the diahbeeah for about a mile and a 
half, the depth of water, as usual, varying, but often as low as 
four feet. AYc were at length stopped at the confluence of two 
channel?, each shallow. The sun was setting, therefore avc 
halted for the night. A buftalo crossed the river about 200 
yards ahead. 

^''February 4. — I took the dingy early in the morning and 
explored both channels ; that on the right has no water beyond 
a depth of about two feet. The left is the true stream, but the 
depth in some places is only three feet ; thus there is more work 
for the men upon their arrival. Had we arrived here a month 
earlier, we could have just passed the shallows, as our vessels 
draw an average of a little over four feet. iSI"o vessels should 
arrive here later than 1st of January ; the entire river is a 
ridiculous imposition ; a month later, the bed will be nearly dry. 
A mile ahead, both channel^j arc closed by a sudd of vegetation, 
we must thus wait until the boats arrive. Altogether the entire 
journey by the Bahr Girafi'e is a painful absurdity, and my 



CHAP. VI. J NO RETREAT ALLOWED. 



expedition will bo fruitless in all but geographical results, unless 
the authorities of the Soudan will clear the main channel of the 
White Nile. 

Fchrnarij 5. — JSTono of the vessels arrived j^estcrday. I 
went back and found them in a terrible fix, as the water is 
leaving us rapidly, and we must cut a fresh channel through the 
sand, about one hundred yards long. 

Fehruary 6. — I took the diahbeeali a mile and a rpiarter 
ahead to a sudd, passing over several shallows of only two feet 
eight inches, and three feet, which will again cause great delay 
and labour. I returned to the fleet^ and assisted in the tedious 
work of dragging the vessels over the shallows. In the eveniug 
I returned to the diahbeeali, and having dragged the dingy 
across the sudd, I explored the channel ahead for an hour, for 
about three miles ; passed over distressing shallows for a 
space of a quarter of a mile ahead of the diahbeeah, after 
which I entered a deep, narrow channel with very rapid 
current. 

"It is quite impossible to say where v/e are, as the professed 
guides seem to know nothing of this horrible chaos, which 
changes its appearance constantly. It is most harassing, 

" February 7. — Last evening I brought the diahbeeah back to 
the fleet, so as to push the work forward personally. The 
soldiers and officers hope we shall return as failures^ in the same 
manner as last year. I have, therefore, informed them and 
Eaouf Bey officially, that no boats shall retreat, but that should 
the river run dry, they shall remain here until the rise of tlio 
water during the next wet season, when they shall go on to 
Wat-el-Shambi. This decision has frightened them, and they 
are working to-day Avith better spirit. 

"I unpacked and served out a hundred spades for digging 
channels ; and I have ordered them to commence to-morrow 
morning, and dig out a straight passage for the thirty-one vessels 
that still remain in the shallows. 

^' February '6. — This is the date of departure last year from 
Khartoum ; an inconceivable madness, had any one known the 
character of the river. All hands as usual tugging, hauling, and 
deepening the river with spades and hoes ; but the more we dig, 
the faster the water runs out of the bed, which threatens to leave 
us high and dry. 

February 9. — The work as usual. All hands thoroughly 
disgusted. I am obliged to lighten the vessels by discharging 
cargo in the mud. Our waggons make excellent platforms for 



96 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. Vi. 



the luggage. Even with this assistance we only drew seven 
vessels through the shallows into the true river channel. 

" To-morrow we must discharge more cargo. 

"The anxiety of leading 1,600 men, and fifty-eight vessels 
with heavy cargoes, through this horrible country is very 
distressing. 

" When I shall have succeeded in dragging the vessels into 
the true channel, I shall construct a dam in the rear, so as to 
retain the water at a higher level. I have no doubt that a 
series of such dams will be required to enable us to reach the 
jSTile. Should it be impossible to proceed with the heavy 
vessels, I shall leave them thatched over as floating stores, with 
a small guard, until the next wet season shall raise the river 
level. 

February 10. — I gave orders to discharge all cargoes, so that 
no vessel should draw more than three feet. All hands are 
now employed at this work, as it is impossible to cut a channel 
through the sand, which fills in as fast as it is deepened. 

^''February 11. — Twent3^-seven vessels passed the diahbeeah, 
having lightened their cargoes ; these vessels must discharge 
everything at Khor, one and a half mile ahead, and return to 
fetch the remaining baggage. The work is tremendous, and the 
risk great. The damage of stores is certain, and should a heavy 
shower fall, which the cloudy state of the weather renders pro- 
bable, the whole of our stores, now lying on the soft mud, will 
be destroyed. 

" To-day I cut a deeper channel near the diahbeeah, and divided 
the men into gangs on the various shallow spots, to tow each 
boat past as she may arrive. The steamer is hard and fast, 
c'llthough she has discharged everything, and she must be literally 
dug out of the passage." 

March 9. — From Feb. 11 to this date we had toiled through 
every species of difficulty. The men had cut one straight line 
of canal through a stiif clay for a distance of 600 yards. Many 
were sick, some had died ; there appeared to be no hope. It was 
in vain that I endeavoured to cheer both officers and men with 
tales and assurances of the promised land before them, should 
they only reach the Is^ile. They had worked like slaves in 
these fetid marshes until their spirits were entirely broken, — the 
Egyptians had ceased to care whether they lived or died. 

The enormous quantity of machinery, iron sections of steamers, 
suppUes, &c., had actually been discharged from fifty-eight 
vessbls. The river had fallen still lower, and upon the quickly 



OHAP. VI.] DISCOVER THE WHITE NILE. 



97 



sun-baked surface I made a road, and having set up my wag- 
gons, I conveyed the great mass of cargo across the land by a 
short cut, and thus reached my long line of vessels, and reloaded 
them after great labour. The waggons were then taken to pieces 
and re-shipped. It would be wearying to give the journal of 
every incident during this trying period, but from the description 
already given, the fatigue and anxiety may be imagined. Thank 
God, I seemed to bear a charmed life. From morning till night 
I was exploring in a small boat through mud and marsh, but I 
was completely fever-proof. My wife was also well. Lieutenant 
Baker and Mr. Higginbotham had suffered frequently from fever, 
but these energetic officers rendered me most important service. 
"While I was ahead exploring, sounding, and planning out the 
route, Lieutenant Baker was commanding and directing the 
steamer, which appeared more like a huge stranded whale among 
the rushes than an object adapted for the navigation of this 
horrible country. I had a first-rate crew on my diahbeeah, and 
some picked men of the " Forty Thieves " who always accom- 
panied me. The best and most devoted man that I have ever 
seen was a corporal of the " Forty Thieves " named Monsoor. 
This man was a Copt (Christian descendant of the tme Egyp- 
tians) ; he was rather short, but exceedingly powerfid ; he swam 
and dived like an otter, and never seemed to feel fatigue. He 
Avas always in good health, very courageous, and he accompanied 
m.e like my own shadow; he seemed to watch over mo as a 
mother would regard an only child. In fact, this excellent man 
appeared to have only one thought and object. 

I had been as usual exploring far ahead of the toiling and 
labouring fleet, when, after pulling our little boat with the aid 
of fourteen men for several hours over a great mass of high 
floating grass, we suddenly emerged upon open water. We at 
once took to our boat, and hoisted the sprit-sail. The men 
stowed themselves as ballast in the bottom. The wind was 
strong from the north, and we travelled at about five miles per 
hour, the lake expanding as we rounded a promontory until it 
attained a width of about half a mile. Following the course of 
the lake for about five miles, we found a river flowing directly into 
the long-sought channel. Only one mile and a quarter from the 
lake, by this small river, we entered the great White Nile ! I 
cannot describe my joy and thankfulness. My men shared my 
feelings. We aU dranlc water from the turbid river, so unlike 
the marsh-filtered water of the swamps ; and as each man washed 
his hands and face in the noble stream, he ejaculated from his 

H 



98 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. VI. 



heart, " El liambd el Illali ! " (" Thauk God ! ") I also tlianked 
God. It was an liour after dark when we returned that night, 
after much difficulty, to my diahbeeah, to wliich we were guided 
by a lantern at the mast-head, thoughtfully placed there by my 
wife's orders. The good news made all happy. We had actually 
that day drunk water from the White Xile ! 

The great difficulty remained of bringing the larger vessels into 
the lake that communicated with the river. After all the labour 
of the last two months, I had succeeded in assembling the entire 
fleet in a sort of shallow pond, from which there was actually no 
exit. I had certainly escaped from this place by dragging the 
little dingy over about a mile of frightful sudd ; but although 
this sudd covered deep water, it appeared to be shut out from us 
by solid mud, through which numerous streams percolated, the 
largest of which was about three feet broad and six inches deep. 
These small drains concentrated in a- narrow ditch, which was 
the principal feeder of the pond, ui which, with such infinite 
trouble, the fleet had been assembled. It was an anxious 
moment, as it would be necessary to cut a canal tln'ough sohd 
mud for a great distance before we could reach the lake ; and as 
we had made a free exit for the water behind us, while it only 
slowly oozed through before us, we stood a fair chance of being 
left helplessly aground. 

On the following morning, the good news of the discovery of 
the White Kile flew through the expedition. Many did not 
believe it, but considered it Avas a dodge to induce them to extra 
exertion. I immediately gave orders for a channel to be opened 
through the mud and large obstruction into the lake. After 
some days' hard work, a passage was completed that v/as sufficiently 
deep to admit the diahbeeah. It required a whole day to force 
her through tliis narrow channel, and in the evening we entered 
the lake, and hoisted the flag at the end of the tall yard, as a 
signal to the fleet that we had accomplished the passage. 

It was now only necessary to work hard and improve the 
channel suflicicntly to admit the passage of the steamer and 
heavier vessels. 

Unfortunately my fears had proved correct ; the fleet was hard 
and fast aground ! The steamer was so helplessly deserted by the 
water, that she would have served for a Nilonieter upon which 
to mark tlie level, like the rock at Assouan. It was simply 
impossible to move her, as she was as solidly fixed as a church. 
Every other vessel of the fleet stood high out of the water, which 
had run out by the clear channel we had opened in the rear. 



OnAP. VI.] CONSTRUCT A DAM ACROSS THE RIVER. 



99 



The officers and men were in consternation. With the prize 
within our grasp, it would be physically impossible to proceed ! 
These sort of people are soon disheartened, and I made great 
allowance for them, as the work of the last two months had been 
sufficient to destroy all energy. 

I at once determined to make a dam behind the vessels so as 
to inclose the position in which we lay like a mill pond. 
Common sense assured me that this must succeed in raising the 
level, provided we could construct a dam of sufficient strength 
to bear the pressure of water. 

I had a great quantity of fir timber in the shape of beams and 
rafters for building purposes. I therefore instructed Mr. Higgin- 
botham to prepare two rows of piles which vfere to be driven 
across the river. This able engineer set to work with his usual 
energy, assisted by Lieutenant J. A. Baker and the Englishmen, 
together with all the mechanics that had been brought from 
Cairo. 

The piles were driven with some difficulty, and diagonal struts 
were fastened from the top of the front row to the base of the 
rear. Horizontal beams then secured the entire line of skeleton 
bridge. 

For two days 1,500 men were emj^loyed in making fascines of 
long, thick reeds tied in large bundles, in the centre of which 
was concealed a mass of about fifty pounds of stiff clay. These 
bundles were firmly lashed with twisted rushes. I had 500 corn 
sacks filled with sand and clay, these Avere to form the founda- 
tion of the dam, and to prevent the water from burrowing 
beneath. 

Every company of troops had to prepare a certain number of 
fascines, which were piled on the side of the river, which had 
now exposed solid banks overgrown with the high reedy grass. 
This immensely long and thick grass, resembling sugar-canes, was 
exactly the material that we required. It was this grass that 
created natural obstructions, and would therefore assist us in our 
artificial obstruction or dam. The sailors of the fleet worked in 
divisions under separate officers. 

On March 1 3^ all the preparations vf ere completed for the work 
of filling in the dam. Great piles of solid balls of clay, of about 
401bs. each, had been arranged in convenient places to stop up 
any leaks that should occur. 

I stood on one of the stranded boats only a few yards from the 
row of piles. The men were ail in their places. The buglers 
and drummers stood upon another vessel ready to give the signal. 

H 2 



100 



ismailIa. 



[chap. VI. 



At the first bugle, every two men lifted the sacks of sand and 
clay. At once all the drums and bugles then sounded the 
advance, and 500 heavy sacks were dropped into the row of piles, 
and firmly stamped down by the men. The troops now worked 
with intense" energy. It was a race between the Soudanis and 
the Egyptians ; this was labour to which the latter were accus- 
tomed in their own country. The sailors worked as vigorously 
as the troops ; piles of fascines and clay balls were laid with 
extraordinary rapidity, vrhile some stamped frantically and 
danced upon the entangled mass, all screaming and shouting in 
great excitement, and the bugles and drums kept up an incessant 
din. A long double line of men formed a transport corps, and 
passed a never-failing supply of fascines to the workers who stood 
in the water and kneaded firmly the adhesive mass. 

At 2.15 P.M. the river was completely shut in, and the people 
with increased energy worked at the superstructure of the dam, 
"which now rose like a causeway for about one hundred and ten 
yards from shore to shore. 

At 3.30 the water had risen to an extent that obliged the men 
in some places to swim. The steamer that had been hopelessly 
stranded, and the entire fleet, were floating merrily in the pond. 
Thank God, I had forgotten nothing in the preparatory arrange- 
ments for the expedition. Without the spades, hoes, grass- 
knives, bill-hooks, timber, &c., &c., we never could have 
succeeded in this journey. 

]\Iy diahbeeah was in the lake waiting for the fleet to accom- 
plish the passage. I had made an excursion one day in the 
dingy to examine the south end of the lake, which I foimd to be 
about eight miles in length. On returning, I was rather anxious 
for the small boat, as a bull hippopotamus made a hostile demon- 
stration. The water was not more than five feet six mches deep ; 
thus as the hippo, after having snorted and sunk, continued to 
approach the boat, I could distinguish the path of his advance 
by the slight wave raised upon the surface. He presently raised i 
his head about twenty yards from the boat, but at the same time \ 
he received a Eeilly explosive shell under the eye which ended | 
his worldly cares. 

There were many hippopotami in this lake, and, very sliortly , 
after I had killed the first, I shot a second much in the same 
manner. I always carried a harpoon in the boat with the rope 
and ambatcli float. The latter was j^ainted red, so that it could 
be easily observed. I therefore. stuck the harpoon in the dead 
hippopotamus as a mark, and hastened back to my diahbeeah for j 



OHAP. vi.l FURIOUS ATTACK OF A HIPPOPOTAMUS. 



101 



assistance, as the flesh of two hippopotami would be very welcome 
to the people, who had not received rations of butcher's meat for 
many weeks. On arrival at the diahbeeah we quickly made sail, 
and soon returned to the hippopotamus. By the time we had cut 
up this large animal and secured the flesh, the sun was so low 
that I considered it would be better to fasten the other hippo by 
a rope attached to the hind legs, and tow it bodily astern of the 
diahbeeah. It could then be divided on the following day. 

In this manner we returned to our anchorage at the tail of the 
lake, close to the entrance of the new channel. By the time we 
arrived, the moon was up. The diahbeeah v/as close to a mud- 
bank covered with high grass, and about thirty yards astern of 
her was a shallow part of the lake about three feet deep. A light 
boat of zinc was full of strips of hippopotamus' flesh, and the 
dingy was fastened alongside. 

After dinner and a pix)e, the usual arrangements were made for 
the night. There were many servants, male and female, on board; 
these began to suspend their mosquito curtains to the rigging and 
to creep beneath ; the sailors, after chatting for a considerable 
time, dropped off to sleep — until the sentry was the only man on 
boatd who was on the alert. I always slept on the poop-deck, 
which was comfortably arranged with sofas and carpets. 

The night was cold, and the moon clear and bright. Every 
one was wrapped up in warm blankets, and I was so sound asleejD, 
that I cannot describe more until I was suddenly awoke by a 
tremendous splashing quite close to the diahbeeah, accompanied 
by the hoarse wild snorting of a furious hippoj^otamus. I jumped 
up, and immediately perceived a hip^^o which was apparently 
about to attack the vessel. The main deck being crowded with 
people sleeping beneath their thick mosquito curtains, attached 
to the stairs of the poop-deck, and to the rigging in all directions, 
rendered it impossible to descend. I at once tore away some of 
the ties, and awakened the sleepy people. My servant, Sulei- 
man, was sleeping next to the cabin door. I called to him for a 
rifle. Before the affrighted Suleiman could bring the rifle, the 
hippopotamus dashed at us with indescribable fury. With one 
blow he capsized and sank the zinc boat with its cargo of flesh. 
In another instant he seized the dingy in his immense jaws, and 
the crash of splintered wood betokened the complete destruction 
of my favourite boat. By this time Suleiman appeared from the 
cabin with an unloaded gun in his hand and without ammuni- 
tion. This was a very good man, but he was never overburdened 
with presence of mind j he was shaking so fearfully with nervous- 



102 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. yi. 



ness, that his senses had entirely abandoned him. All the peo- 
ple were shouting and endeavouring to scare the hippo, which 
attaclsied us without ceasing with a blind fury that I have never 
witnessed in anj^ animal except a bull-dog. 

By this time I had procured a rifle from the cabin, where they 
were always kept fixed in a row, loaded and ready for action, 
with bags of breechloading ammunition on the same shelf. 

The movements of the animal were so rapid as he charged and 
plunged alternately beneath the water in a cloud of foam and 
wave, that it was impossible^ to aim correctly at the small but 
fatal spot upon the head. 

The moon was extremely bright, and presently, as he charged 
straight at the diahbeeah, I stopped him with a I^To. 8 Eeilly 
shell. To my surprise, he soon recovered, and again commenced 
the attack. 

I fired shot after shot at him without apparent efi'ect. The 
diahbeeah rocked about upon the waves raised by the efforts of 
so large an animal ; this movement rendered the aim uncertain. 
At length, apparently badly wounded, he retired to the high 
grass ; there he lay by the bank, at about twenty-five yards' 
distance, snorting and blowing. 

I could not distinguish him, as merely the head was above 
Avater, and this was concealed by the deep shadow thro^vn by the 
high grass. Thinking that he would die, I went to bed : but 
before this I took the precaution to arrange a white paper sight 
upon the muzzle of my rifle, without which, night shooting is 
very uncertain. 

We had fallen asleep; but in about half an hour we were awoke 
by another tremendous splash, and once more this mad beast came 
charging directly at us as though unhurt. In another instant ho 
was at the diahbeeah ; but I met him with a ball in the top of 
his head which sent him rolling over and over, sometimes on his 
back, kicking with his four legs above the surface, and again pro- 
ducing waves which rocked the diahbeeah. In this helpless 
manner he rolled for about fifty yards down the stream, and we 
all thought him killed. 

To our amazement he recovered, and we heard him splashing 
as he moved slowly along the river through the high grass by the 
left bank. There he remained snorting and blowing, and as the 
light of the moon was of no service in the dark shadows of the 
high grass, wo waited for a considerable time and then went to 
bed, Avith the rifle placed in readiness on deck. 

In a short time I heard louder splashing. I again got up, and 



OHAP. VI.] 



DAMAGE TO BOAT. 



103 



I perceivGcl liiin" about eighty yards distant, walking slowly across 
the river in the shallows. Having a fair shot at the shoulder, I 
fired right an<i left with the No. 8 Eeilly rifle, and I distinctly 
heard the bullets strike. He nevertheless reached tlie right bank, 
when he presently turned round and attempted to re-cross the 
shallow. This gave me a good, chance at the shoulder, as his 
body was entirely exposed. He staggered forward at the shot, 
and fell dead in the shallow flat of the river. 

He was now past recovery. It was very cold : the thermometer 
was 54° Fahrenheit, and the blankets were very agreeable, as 
once more all hands turned in to sleep. 

On the follo"wing morning I made a post-mortem examination. 
Ho had received three shots in the flank and shoulder ; four in 
the head, one of which had broken his lower jaw ; another through 
his nose had passed downward and cut off one of his large tusks. 
I never witnessed such determined and unprovoked fury as was 
exhibited by this animal — he appeared to be raving mad. His 
body was a mass of frightful scars, the result of continual con- 
flicts with bulls of his own species ; some of these wounds were 
still unhealed. There was one scar about two feet in length, and 
about two inches below the level of the surface skin, upon the 
flank. He was evidently a character of the worst description, 
but whose madness rendered him callous to all punishment. I 
can only suppose that the attack upon the vessels was induced by 
the smell of the raw hippopotamus flesh, which was hung in long 
strips about the rigging, and with which the zinc boat was filled. 
The dead hippopotamus that was floating astern lashed to the 
diahbeeah had not been molested. 

We raised the zinc boat, which was fortunately unhurt. The 
ding}'- had lost a mouthful, as the hippopotamus had bitten out 
a portion of the side, including the gunwale of hard wood; he 
had munched out a piece like the port of a small vessel, which 
he had accomplished with the same ease as though it had been 
a slice of toast. 

I sent the boat to the English shipwrights for repair, and 
these capital workmen turned it out in a few days nearly as 
good as new. 

The success of the dam was most complete. The river rose 
so as to overflow the marshes, which enabled us to push all the 
vessels up the channel without the necessity of deepening it by 
spade labour. 

March 14. — Should we succeed in reaching Gondokoro 
without serious loss, it will be the greatest possible triumph 



104 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VI. 



over difficulties, wliicli no one can understand who has not 
witnessed the necessities of the journey. 

"A diahbeeah arrived in the lake, breaking her yard in a 
sudden shift of v\"ind, and giving a man a fall from aloft, which 
was fatal. 

" The steamer and fleet are coming through the sudd as fast 
as the troops clear the channel. 

March 15. — The steamer arrived in the lake at 3.30 p.m. 

''March 16.— Thermometer, 6 a.m., 61°; noon, 82°. Eleven 
vessels entered the lake last night. The wind has been very 
variable for the last few days, and the true north ^i^dnd appears 
to have deserted us; the absence of a fair breeze delays us sadly 
in pushing through the narrow channels against the stream. 

" Dysentery and scurvy are prevalent among the Egj^tians. 
Four Egyptian soldiers and two Soudanis have deserted. Where 
these wretched fools intend to wander is. c[uite a speculation ; — 
they appear to have pelded to a temptation to run away upon 
the first dry land that they have seen for months. 

" The fleet assembled in the lake. The Egyptian troops cut 
a passage for fifty yards through a sudd in a channel through 
which the fleet must pass, as there is a shallow that will prevent 
them from taking the main course of the lake. 

'•'To-morrow the whole force will turn out and cut the re- 
maining portion of about 300 yards : there will then be no 
difficulty except a sudd of about three quarters of a mile between 
the lake and the "White Xile. 

''March 17. — We cut through the sudd, and all the ves- 
sels entered the broad waters of the lake and anchored in the 
evening opposite some native huts, close to the channel that we 
must open to-morrov/. These huts are the ffi'st habitations that 
we have seen for more than two months ; — they are now deserted 
by the frightened fishermen who had occupied them. 

"March 18. — The diahbeeah led the way at 7.30 a.m. through 
the channel that is closed by grass and the Pistia Stratiotes. 
At 10.15 we arrived in the White Xile. There is plenty of 
water tlu'oughout the closed channel^ but there was some heavy 
work to clear the vegetation. 

"March 19. — All the vessels came through into the White 
Xile, and there was great rejoicing throughout the fleet. At 
length the men really believed that a country of dry land might 
lie before them, and that they were delivered from the horrible 
chaos or ' Slough of Despond ' in which they had now laboured 
for sixty days. 



oiiAP. VI.] THE WHITE NILE AT LAST! 



105 



I served out new tow-ropes to the fleet, and ordered ISTo. 13 
transport to discharge and divide her cargo among other vessels, 
and to take on board thirty soldiers to accompany the steamer 
to-morrow. We remounted the steamer's paddles and tautened 
all the rigging of the diahbeeah ; mended sails, and thoroughly 
repaired for a start to-morrow. ^N'o. 31 being a rotten vessel, I 
ordered her cargo to be divided among the lighter boats. I 
gave stringent orders to the officers to protect all ammunition 
and bales of goods with galvanized iron plates in case of rain. 

March 20. — All the vessels got away by 9 a.m. Avith a 
rattling breeze. The steamer started at 10.8 a.m., but was 
delayed one hour and twenty minutes by her stuj^idly dragging 
the noggur ashore in rounding a sharp corner. 

" At 5.15 P.M. we arrived at a forest on the west bank. At 
6.45 P.M. we stopped, as I was afraid \iq might pass the station 
of Wat-el-Shambi in the dark. 

March 21. — At 8.25 a.m. we started. Three natives came 
to the vessel and reported the zareeba to be close ahead. 

I served out lifteen rounds of snider ammunition per man 
to the ' Forty Thieves,' thus filling up their pouches to thirty 
rounds. The banks are now dry, and about two feet six inches 
above the river's level. The country is as usual flat, but covered 
with forest on the west. Cattle numerous, and bellowing in all 
directions. 

"At 9.15 a.m. we arrived at Wat-el-Shambi. The forest is 
distant from the river, therefore at 10 we started with light south- 
east wind, and at 10.30 we retui'ncd to a good station for 
cutting fuel in the forest about four miles below Wat-el-Shambi. 

" The few representatives of Ali Amouri, the trader at the 
latter station, declared that they could not supply us with 
cattle, they being hard up for provisions themselves. Their 
looks belied the excuse. Wind south all day, but changed to 
north at 6.30 p.m. The boat of the French trader, Jules Poncet, 
that had accompanied the fleet, arrived in the evening. 

A number of natives, stark naked, and smeared with wood 
ashes, came as usual to beg for corn. I have given strict orders 
that on no account shall corn be exchanged iii purchases from 
the natives — otherwise our supply will be stolen wholesale. 
This order was broken through by Mustapha Ali, who there- 
fore received a hundred lashes, as I was determined to enforce 
obedience. 

" March 22. — Much lightning and wind from the south 
during the night. I fear rain. At daybreak we found Raouf 



106 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. vit. 



Eey's vessel close iip, and many others near. Tlie north wind 
of last night must have aided them. The natives came in some 
numbers, 

" March 23. — All hands yesterday and to-day busied in cut- 
ting wood for steamer. 

March 24. — Poor Jusef, one of the horsekeepers, died. 

March 25. — Started, with the steamer towing a noggur 
and my diahbeeah with about fifty hours' fuel on board, at 
12.50 P.M. 

" There has been wholesale theft of stores on Xo. 50 noggur. 
I caught and punished the captain in the act of selling our 
ammunition to the slave traders' people in their zareeba. 

March 2G. — We travelled throughout last night; the stream 
is nearly three miles per hour. We lost an hour last evening in 
taking wood from the noggur in tow, as she leaks dangerously. 
I took six men and their effects from her, and placed them on 
the steamer, as she is quite unsafe. 

"Arrived at the station of Abou Kookah at 10.25 a.m., 
having travelled badly against the strong south wind, and our 
bottom dirty. At 3.10 p.m. we left Abou Kookah, and at 9.50 
P.M. we arrived at the forest, close to the deserted mission 
station of St. Croix, where we halted for the night. There 
were vast herds of cattle and many natives on the east bank." 



CHAPTER VII. 

ARRIVAL AT GOXDOKORO. 

After the usual voyage upon the White jS^ile, during which wo 
passed the Bohr and the Shir tribes, and had excellent sport in 
antelope shooting when the steamer stopped at forests to cut 
fuel, wo arrived opposite the old mission station at Gondokoro 
on April 15, 1871. 

I found a great change in the river since my last visit. The 
old channel, which had been of great depth where it swept 
beneath the cliffs, was choked witli sand-banks. !N'ew islands 
had formed in many places, and it was impossible for the 
vessels to approach the old landing-place. We therefore drop- 



OHAP. VIT.] 



CHANGE IN THE COUNTRY. 



107 



ped down the stream to a spot where high ground and a few 
trees invited us to the east bank. At this place the traders 
had founded a new settlement that Avas now without in- 
habitants, and was represented by half-a-dozen broken-down old 
huts, 

'•'The country is sadly changed; formerly, pretty native 
villages in great numbers were dotted over the landscape, 
beneath shady clumps of trees, and the land was thickly 
populated. JNow, all is desolate : not a village exists on the 
mainland; they have all been destroyed, and the inhabitants 
have been driven for refuge on the numerous low islands of the 
river; these are thronged with villages, and the people are 
busily cultivating the soil. 

" I sent for the chief, Allorron, who, upon arrival with some 
other natives, explained that his country had been destroyed by 
the attacks of the people of Loquia at the instigation of the 
traders. I promised him protection if he and his people would 
return to the mainland and become true subjects to the Khedive. 
At the same time I informed him that, in return for protection, 
his people must cultivate corn, and build the huts required for 
the troops upon arrival. This he promised to do, and I arranged 
that he should summon a general meeting of the headmen and 
their people to-morrow, or as soon as possible. 
' "I at once cleared a small plot of ground and sowed some 
garden seeds on the new soil now annexed to Egypt. My soldiers 
took a great interest in the operation, and as we covered the 
seeds with light earth, we concluded the sowing with the usual 
ejaculation — ' Bismillah ! ' (in the name of God). 

" I walked up to the old mission station. Not one brick 
remains upon another — all is totally destroyed. The few fruit- 
trees planted by the pious hands of the Austrian Missionaries 
remain in a tangled wilderness by the river's bank. The 
beautiful avenue of large lemon-trees has been defaced by the 
destruction of many boughs, while the ground beneath is 
literally covered by many thousands of withered lemons that 
have fallen neglected from the branches without a hand to 
gather them. The natives will not eat them, thus the delicious 
fruit has been wasted ; perhaps sixty or eighty bushels have 
rotted on the earth. I trust that the seeds I have already sown 
will have a more useful result than the lost labour of the 
unfortunate missionaries. It would be heartbreaking to them 
could they see the miserable termination of all their good 
works. 



108 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VII. 



April 16. — The mileage from tlie junction of the Bahr 
Giraffe I have calculated at 364 to this point (Gondokoro) ; but 
I deduct 10 per cent., as we took several wrong turns of tho 
river. The distance may be about 330 miles. 

Miles. 

From Balir Giraffe junction to Gondokoro . . 330 
„ Upper Nile junction to Dubba on Bahr 

Giraffe . . . . . . 48 

„ Dubl^a to Lower NUe junction . . . 300 
„ Lower Nile junction to Sobat ... 38 
„ Sobat to Khartoum .... 693 

1,409 to Gondokoro." 

The chief AUorron arrived with a number of his people, and 
asked for araki and cognac ! " He is a big and savage-looking 
naked brute of the lowest descrij)tion, his natural vices having 
been increased by constant associations Avith the slave-hunters. 
This man declared that his people could not prej^aro materials 
for the camp, as the neighbouring tribes were hostile ; and he 
could not venture to collect bamboos. 

I told him that if my oixiers were not obeyed, the troops 
would be obliged to bo sheltered in his villages upon arrival, as 
I could not allov/ them to be exposed to the rains. 

Both AUorron and his people looked extremely sullen, and 
although I always knew the Baris to be the worst tribe in the 
JS^ile basin, I was not prepared for such a morose welcome. I 
explained to him the object of the expedition. He seemed quite 
incredulous, and made some remark to his followers in his own 
language with a contemptuous smile. He rather approved of the 
idea that slave-taking woidd be suppressed in his own tribe, but 
he could not sympatluze with the general principle, and he asked 
'''\^^lat will the slave-traders do?" Colonel Abd-el-Kador 
replied to the C[uestion by explaining to him my exact position, 
and the relative position of the traders. At this he burst out 
laugliing in the rudest manner. He had seen me and my wife 
on our former voyage, and he well remembered that in those 
days we had been not only helpless in Gondokoro, but that the 
traders had spoken of all Europeans with contempt. He had 
already hoard from Abou^ Saood's peo^^le of my expected 
arrival, by whom he had been incited against the expedition. 
It had been explained to him, that if baffled, we should soon 

^ The agent of tho great company of Agad & Co., who farmed the 
district from the government. 



OiiAP. VII.] TRUE STATE OF AFFAIRS. 109 



become disgusted, and return to Khartoum. He also remembered 
that many Europeans had visited Gondokoro like myself, but 
none had remained. It was therefore natural that a brutal 
savage, whose people were allied with the slave-traders, to attack 
and pillage outlying countries, should not regard with favour a 
new government that woulu establish law and order. For many 
years Allorron's tribe had been associated with the slavers, and 
now that the entire country had been leased to one man, Abou 
Saood, he had become the vakeel, or representative of this 
individual, by whom he had been thoroughly prepared for our 
arrival. We had been expected long ago, but, as already 
described, the delays attending the oiDening of the Suez canal 
had prevented us from starting. 

I quickly perceived the real state of affairs. A great number 
of Allorron's people were absent in the interior, employed by 
Abou Saood's companies as mercenary soldiers. The Baris are a 
most warlike tribe, and would make excellent troops ; thus they 
were valuable allies of the slave-hunters, as the geographical 
position of Gondokoro rendered it the only spot that was adapted 
for an important station. The traders now possessed of the 
monopoly of the ivory trade, found no necessity for a permanent 
station at Gondokoro, as their interests were watched during 
their absence in the interior by their ally Allorron ; they 
accordingly only visited Gondokoro when they returned period- 
ically from the interior with their ivory and slaves to meet the 
vessels from Khartoum. 

Allorron was in the habit of despatching messengers to their 
various camps (seven or eight days' march for a running negro) 
to give the vakeels notice of the arrival of the expected vessels. 
Many hundreds of his people had been armed with guns by the 
traders, therefore his tribe and the companies of Abou Saood 
were thoroughly incorporated, brigands allied with brigands, 
and Gondokoro had become the nucleus to which the spoil was 
concentrated. 

These were people by whom the blessings of a good govern- 
ment were hardly to be understood. 

Unfortunately for Allorron, he had joined the slave-hunters 
of Abou Saood against neighbours that were unpleasantly close 
to Gondokoro. The Loquia, a most powerful tribe, only three 
days' march to the south-east, had lost slaves and cattle by these 
depredations ; thus, when the slave-hunters' parties had quitted 
Gondokoro and returned to their station in the interior, Loquia 
liad invaded the unprotected AUorron, and had utterly destroyed 



110 



IS3IAIL1A. 



[chap. VII. 



his district on tlie eastern mainland. For many miles the 
country now resembled a very lovely park. Every habitation 
had disappeared, and this formerly populous position was quite 
deserted by the snr\dving inhabitants, who had taken refuge in 
the islands, or on the west side of the river. At this season the 
entire country was covered with a tender herbage — that species 
of fine grass, called by the Arabs "negheel," which is the best 
pasturage for cattle. Allorron's people dared not bring their 
herds to pasture upon this beautiful land from whence they 
had been driven, as they were afraid that the news would soon 
reach Loquia, who would pounce unexpectedly upon them from 
the neighbouring forest. 

I had therefore arrived in a country from Avliich the original 
possessors had been banished by superior force : there was not a 
single representative of the tribe upon the mainland, neither 
could their cattle venture across the river to pasture upon the 
beautiful herbage, that v>^as now entirely neglected except by a 
few herds of antelopes. At the same time, the pasturage on the 
islands, being insufficient for the large herds of cattle, was 
consumed, and the animals were dependent upon the rank grass, 
which they could only reach by wading into the water j thus 
many were taken by crocodiles. 

It would have been natural to suppose that Allorron and his 
people would have welcomed the protection now offered by the 
new government. I invited them to return to their old country, 
from which they had been expelled, and to rebuild their villages 
on their old sites, where they could recommence tneir cultiva- 
tion, and form a new settlement under the wing of our head- 
quarters. 

It was easy to perceive by the manner of the chief, Allorron, 
and his people that they had been incited by Abou Saood and 
his companies against the expedition. My delay in starting from 
Egypt had been of immense advantage to the slave-traders, as it 
had given them time to organize a resistance to the expedition. 
The negroes are easily misled ; naturally vicious and treacherous, 
they are ready to believe any tales of evil : and as a young child 
may be frightened by a ghost story, they also may by a few 
words be rendered suspicious of their best friend. Their 
interests were the same as those of the slave-traders. 

My " Forty Thieves" ^ were excellent fellows, and all the men 
who were constantly about mo were very different from those 

The bodyguard of picked men, armed with snider rifles. 



OHAP. VII.] 



COMMENCE A STATION. 



Ill 



wlio formed the bulk of tlie military force. I now commenced 
a small station and a large garden. 

I had chosen a pretty spot for my station, as I did not intend 
to reside at head-quarters, Avhicli 'would be the site originally 
occupied by the Austrian mission, and was well adapted for a 
large town. 

My position was a rising knoll of about six acres upon which 
grew a few shady trees. This spot had been the station of a 
missionary known by the natives under the name of ^' Suleiman; " 
his was the only name remembered by the Baris, and his body 
had been buried here, but nothing marlicd tlie spot. He had 
passed away, like all the rest of those good and self-sacrificing 
people, without leaving one trace of good works among this 
barbarous tribe except the lemon-trees ; theirs was the only seed 
that appeared to have fallen on good ground. 

In a few days my men had made a large garden, in which I 
sowed onions, radishes, beans, spinach, four varieties of water 
melons, sweet melons, cucumbers, oranges, custard apples, Indian 
corn, garlic, barmian, tobacco, cabbages, tomatoes, chilis, long 
capsicums, carrots, parsley, celery. I arranged the daily labour 
so that the soldiers and sailors should work at the cultivation 
from 6 A.M. till 1 1 ; after which they might have the day to 
themselves, to construct their own huts. 

At this season, 20th April 1871, the river was extremely low ; 
I therefore fixed a pole Avith marked inches to register the rise of 
floods. 

By the 23rd April all my men had arranged gardens parallel 
with the lines of their camp. I gave them various seeds, with a 
promise of prizes for the finest specimens of vegetables that might 
be produced. I had always endeavoured to create a taste for 
agriculture among my people, and they had now learnt that the 
commencement of a nevi^ settlement was the signal for cultivation. 
I believe that no employment engenders such a love of a parti- 
cular locality as that of farming, provided always that the soil 
and climate are favourable. Thus, in an expedition to a distant 
land, it is necessary to induce the feelings of home among the 
people. The hut by itself is simply shelter, but the same hut 
surrounded by a neat and productive garden, the result of indus- 
try, becomes a settled residence. It is pleasant to watch the 
blossoms of home flowers and vegetables that you may have your- 
self introduced and planted. A good English cabbage or carrot 
may not be introduced in poetry so generally as the rose, but in 
a new settlement in a wild country, the success of a cabbage or 



112 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VII. 



carrot is of more importance to the expedition than bonqnets of 
flowers. 

Even the women and boys that were domestic servants, origin- 
ally slaves that I had liberated from the traders, had learnt to 
take a great interest in cultivation. Each had a garden, and a 
day never passed without permission being asked for a fev/ hours' 
recreation with the spade or hoe, the latter being the favourite 
im^^lement, as the want of shoes rendered the management of the 
spade extremely difficult, except in very light soil. 

I believe that a taste for gardening has a most civilizing in- 
fluence among savages ; and if I were a missionary, I should 
commence with such practical teaching, thus proving in your 
joint labour with the natives the principle that industry and peace 
will create prosperity. 

A few extracts from my journal will describe the gradual pro- 
gress of the settlement : — 

" Mr. Higginbotham shot a waterbuck during an exploratory 
ramble that we took through the forest, in search of large timber 
for building purposes. The main forest begins about two miles 
from this station, in which is an unlimited supply of wood, in- 
cluding the most magnificent tamarind-trees. These beautiful 
specimens are dotted about the country, lil^e park timber in 
England. There is a tamarind-tree about a mile from this station, 
beneath which about a thousand cattle might find shade.^ 

" There is a native, named Tomby, who speaks excellent Arabic. 
This fellow has been twice to Khartoum, and he wears clothes, 
instead of walking about in a state of absolute nudity like his 
countrymen. He has an excellent rifle that was given to him by 
his old master, a French trader, Monsieur Bartholome. Tomby 
has been employed as interpreter ; and having been born and 
bred in these parts, he is a perfect chronicler. It appears .that 
Abou Saood treacherously murdered the sheik of Belinian, a 
country about twelve miles distant from this station. He feared 
the sheik of Belinian, who was a powerful neighbour : he there- 
fore, professing friendship, invited him and his family to an 
entertainment at Gondokoro. The sheik and his people, not 
suspectmg evil, arrived, bringing witli them the usual presents. 
Abou Saood received them very politely, and when they were 
seated, and had entered into com^ersation, he had them seized by 
his people, and murdered them on the spot in cold blood. Owing 
to this treacherous conduct, the entire neighbourhood is hostile, 



^ It must be remembered that the Bail cattle arc very small. 



OHAP, VII.] 



CATTLE CROSS THE RIVER. 



113 



and anarchy prevails throiigliout the country; thus I cannot 
send a letter to the traders' camp at Latooka, as no one dares to 
travel. 

^' April 24. — Thermometer, 6 a.m., 74°; noon, fell to 72° 
We had a picnic at the old mission station, where I went accom- 
panied by Lieutenant Baker, Mr. Higginbotham, and my wife, to 
measure out the camp and fort. As usual in England, the picnic 
brought on heavy rain, which lasted from 9.30 a.m. till 2 p.m., to 
the great benefit of the garden. 

April 25. — Thermometer, 6 a.m., 69°; noon, 80°. We com- 
pleted the large garden ; the soldiers' allotments are also complete. 
The camp of the " Eorty Thieves " is very neat ; a spirit of indus- 
try has seized upon the whole party. The women have made 
gardens around their huts, and agriculture appears to be the pre- 
vailing fashion. I am surrounding the cultivation with a live 
fence of euphorbia. Julian has been unwell for some time past. 

"The natives appear to have gained confidence, as they are 
bringing their cattle across the river from the islands to our fine 
pasturage. It is curious to see the manner in which the herd 
follows the man Avho swims before them as tlieii' guide, while 
other natives direct them while swimming by striking them upon 
the horns with long bamboos. 

" Yesterday the river rose about two feet, but it fell almost as 
suddenly, showing that tlie rise was only the effect of the heavy 
rain upon the mountain ranges .throughout the country. 

" One of the boys, Said, caught three fish, weighing about 
eight, ten, and twenty pounds each. These were of the Silurus 
species, and arc excellent eating. 

" The white ants are now issuing from the ground in vast 
numbers in the winged state, and are taking flight. Myriads of the 
black and white tern and the white storks are following them. 
The lizards are also at work in the general persecution. 

April 26, 27. — Made new garden beds. All the seeds sown 
by the troops are above ground, to the great delight of the men. 
We cleared and sowed about an acre with Indian corn to-day." 

We thus continued working and improving, until wo had in 
a comparatively short time produced a great result. About ten 
acres of corn were above ground, as a few showers had started the 
seeds like magic. My men were comfortably housed in a neat 
station on the high ground, while my servants had a pretty little 
village of their own situated on the knoll, by the river side, about 
fifty yards from my dialibeeah. This vessel was moored alongside 
the bank, the fine grass of which was kept closely cut, so as to 

I 



114 



ISMAILlA. 



[OHAP. VII. 



resemble a lawn, that extended for about thirty yards ; this "was 
bounded by prickly pears and ornamented by a large and showy 
butter-nut-tree, which formed our out-door drawing-room. 

It w^as all very Avell to establish a government, and to com- 
mence the civilization of Central Africa, but we were very hungry, 
and we could procure nothing from the natives, ^ye had no 
butchers' meat, neither would the Sheik Allorron or his people 
sell us either sheep or cattle. 

For several days we lived ujDon sparrows, which Monsoor shot 
by sj^rinkling corn upon the ground and firing into the assembled 
flock of hundreds. The country was swarming with these small 
birds, wdiich are no doubt delicacies; but if you have a good 
appetite they are a little too light on the stomach. In the mean 
time, although the natives could now venture to drive their cattle 
to the rich pasturage under our protection, wdiicli they could not 
before enjo}^ for fear of their enemies the Loquia, they absolutely 
refused to sell, or to supjoly us in any manner. In spite of my 
explanations to the sheik by the interpreter Tomby, he refused to 
bring either grass or wood for the expected soldiers' huts, or in 
fact to do anything to serve us. 

Upon one occasion, as my men were sowing and clearing the 
land for planting, he employed natives to work at the same kind 
of cultivation in front of the trooj)S, in order to claim a right to 
the soil. On this occasion he came himself, prepared with a cup 
formed of a small gourd-shell slung by a string upon his neck. 
He explained that this was his cup for drinking araki, with Avhich 
he requested to be supplied. 

" How long are you going to remain here 1, " he asked. He 
continued, " You had better go back to Khartoum, and I will eat 
the corn you have planted when it becomes ripe." 

I exi)lained that Gondokoro would be head-quarters, and that 
troops would always remain there, and we should cultivate a large 
extent for corn. He replied : Then who does this land belong 
to 1 — to you or to mel" I explained that his jDeople had been 
driven out by a superior force, and that we had found it aban- 
doned ; at the same time, neither he nor his people dare remain 
here Avithout my protection, therefore the land belonged to the 
Khedive of Egypt ; but if the natives wished to re-settle I would 
give them their original property. 

He simply replied, " Who does this tree belong to ^ " (we were 
standing beneath its shade). " It belongs to the Khedive of 
Egypt," I replied, " who is now protector of the whole country, 
and I am his rcpresciito.tive to establish his government." 



Fig. 2. 




Fig ..-PaAe. of phited rope of .n .he e.ac, shape a, presented by the „a,lve. 

the large helix and other molUiscs of the White ^ ile. 



CHAP. VII.] THE BARIS AND THEIR COUNTRY. 



115 



He replied : " Then you had better be off to Khartoum, for Ave 
don't want any government here." 

There can be no doubt that in the abstract of people's rights, 
any annexation of the territory of another is an infringement. 
Had this principle been adhered to throughout the history of the 
world, there would have been no progress. Savages of all coun- 
tries are prone to strife ; and a state of chronic warfare with 
neighbouring tribes is the example of African politics. A strong 
government is a necessity. 

I had always expected trouble with the Baris, as I had known 
them during my former journey as a tribe of intractable savages. 
The Austrian missionaries had abandoned them as hopeless, after 
many efforts and a great expenditure of money and energy. 

The natives had pulled down the neat mission house, and they 
had pounded and ground the bright red bricks into the finest 
powder, which mixed with grease formed a paint to smear their 
naked bodies. Thus the only results of many years' teaching 
were the death of many noble men, the loss of money, the failure 
of the attempt ; and instead of the enterprise leaving a legacy of 
inward spiritual grace to these " men and brethren," the mission- 
ary establishment itself was converted into an external applica- 
tion for the skin : the house of God was turned into "pomade 
divine." This was a result that might have been expected by 
any person who had j)ractical experience of the Baris. 

The extent of country occupied by this tribe was about ninety 
miles in length from north to south, and seventy in width. 
Although the people who inhabited this district were all Baris, 
there was no cohesion among them. They were divided into 
numerous small chiefdoms, each governed by its sheik or head- 
man. Thus Allorron represented Gondokoro, while every petty 
district was directed by a similar sheik. The Bari country was 
thickly inhabited. The general features of the landscape were 
rolling park-like grass lands ; — very little actual flat, but a series 
of undulations, ornamented with exceedingly fine timber — forests 
of considerable extent, and mountains rising to about 2,500 or 
3,000 feet above their base. From these mountains numerous 
streams drained to the IsTile : these were generally dry in the 
summer season. The soil was poor in the neighbourhood of 
Gondokoro, but at a distance from the river, the country was 
fertile ; — the rocks were throughout granitic ; the mountains 
yielded the finest iron ore, especially those of Belinian, twelve 
miles from Gondokoro, where the natives were expert black- 
smiths. Cultivation was carried on to a large extent throughout 

I 2 



116 



ISMAILiA. 



[CHAPc VII. 



the country ; the corn generally used was the common dhurra 
[Sorghum vulgare). This was usually the dark-red variety, which, 
"being rather bitter, has a chance of escape from the clouds of small 
birds which ruin the crops. Sesame was common throughout all 
portions of Central Africa, and throve well upon the poor and 
light soil of Gondokoro. 

The Baris were exceedingly neat in their dwellings, and their 
villages were innumerable. Each hut was siuTOunded by a small 
court composed of cement made from the clay of the white-ant 
hills mixed with cow-dung and smeared with ashes : these comets 
were always kept scrupulously clean. The Bari hut differs from 
that of other tribes, as it contains an inner circle, which can only 
be used by creeping on the hands and knees — first through the 
entrance, which is only twenty-four inches high, and secondly 
from the p»assago formed by the inner circle. The imier walls 
are formed of wattles and clay neatly smeared or plastered with 
cement. They are quickly attacked by the white ants, which 
destroy the wattles, but the clay is safiiciently tenacious to form 
a wall when the wood or reeds may have disappeared. 

The granaries are formed of wicker-work sujDported upon 
upright pedestals of either hard wood or of stone, to resist the 
white ants ; the Avicker-work is smeared with clay and cow-dung, 
and the roof is thatched in a manner similar to the house. 

The Baris are a great pastoral people, and possess immense 
herds of cattle. These are generally small active animals with 
humps ; white is the prevailing colour. The sheep are small and 
the mutton is good; but although the fine pasturage of tlie Bari 
country is eminently adapted for sheep and goats, these animals 
are delicate, and require much attention dming the heavy rains, 
at which time they are always kept beneath a roof at night, with 
fires composed of dry cow-dimg to create a smoke that will drive 
away flies or mosquitoes. 

Like most of the tribes of the AYhite ISTile, the Baris have a 
strong objection to sell their cattle ; thus you m.ay be surrounded 
by plenty, but you may starve in the midst of beef. 

Their large herds are confined at night within zareebas or 
kraals. These are formidable defences. The cattle zareeba is a 
circular stockade formed of a hard wood called by the Arabs 
abou-noos or abdnoos (ebony). This is an intensely hard black 
wood somewhat resembling ebony. Piles as thick as a man's 
thigh are sunk in the earth, so as to leave a fence or stockade of 
about eight feet high above the surface ; these piles are placed 
as close as j)Ossible together, and interlaced by tough hooked 



OHAP. VII.] 



BARI CUSTOMS. 



117 



thorns, whicli when dry and contracted bind the stockade into a 
very compact defence. The entrance to this fort is only suffi- 
ciently large to admit one animal at a time ; thus the herd can be 
easily counted. Within the stockade are several houses, in 
addition to a few large circular sheds for the protection of young 
calves. The sheep and goats are kept in a separate zareeba. 

All the operations of the Baris are conducted by signals given 
by the drum, precisely as our military movements are directed 
by bugle-calls. The great drum that belongs to the headman or 
sheik, is suspended beneath an open shed, so that it is always 
protected from weather, and at the same time the sound could 
travel unchecked. These drums are cut and scooped Avith great 
labour from a peculiar wood, which is exceedingly tough and will 
not easily split. The Bari drum is exactly the shape of an egg 
with a slice taken off the thicker end. Some of these instruments 
are very large, and as much as two men could carry on a pole. 
Both ends are hollowed through and secured with hide; but the 
broad end forms the actual drum. This is beaten with two short 
sticks of hard wood. In the early morning, shortly before sun- 
rise, the hollow sound of the big drum is always heard giving the 
signal by a certain number of beats for the mill^ing of the cows. 
The women and young men then commence, and when the oper- 
ation is completed, the drum beats again, and the large herds are 
driven to pasturage. The signal is repeated in the evening. 
Should an enemy attack the country, the sheik's big drum gives 
the alarm by a peculiar series of beats^ which if once heard can 
easily be remembered. In a few seconds this loud alarm will be 
re-echoed by every drum throughout the numerous villages, and 
the news of the attack will thus spread by signal as fast as sound 
can travel. A certain beat of the sheik's big drum is the call for 
a general assembly, in which case, should an enemy appear, the 
whole forces of the district can be concentrated in one point. 

The weapons of the Baris are finely- wrought lances, and bows 
with horribly barbed arrows. They seldom carry shields, as they 
are dithcult to manage together with the bow, and they impede 
the rapid movements which are the chief feature in Bari tactics. 

The men are generally tall and powerful, always naked and 
smeared with ashes, or on great occasions with red ochre and 
grease. The women are not absolutely bad-looking, but real 
beauties are extremely rare. They ^vear an apron before and 
behind of tanned leather, extending nearly to the knees, which 
is only the outer garment, beneath which they wear a neatly- 
made fringe of innumerable strings, formed of finely-spun cotton 



118 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VII. 



thread, suspended from a leather belt. Some of the Avealthy 
possess fringe composed of iron rings, neatly worked, so as to form 
a kind of shirt of mail. 

Every man is a^warrior from his childhood, as the Baris are 
always at war. They are extremely clever in the use of the lance, 
which they can throw with great accuracy for a distance of thirty 
yards, and they can pitch it into a body of men at upwards of 
fifty yards. From early childhood the boys are in constant prac- 
tice, both with the lance and the bow and arrow ; thus, although 
their weapons are inferior to fire-arms properly used, they are 
dangerous in the hands of proficients against men who, like my 
troops, were utterly ignorant of the art of shooting. 

Fortunately for my expedition, the warlike Baris were not 
united throughout their territory. ISTevertheless, I discovered 
that the Baris of Gondokoro had made an alliance with those of 
Belinian, twelve 'miles from head-quarters. I observed that 
women were constantly passing to and fro with baskets on their 
heads, carrying salt from Gondokoro, and each returning with a 
goat, led by a string. Excellent salt is found at Gondokoro, real 
cliloride of sodium ; and this article enables the natives of that 
district to trade with the interior, where salt is extremely rare and 
of great value. I had remarked that women, and sometimes men, 
were met in my rambles through the forest, on their way to Be- 
linian by this concealed route, instead of taking the open path ; 
this aroused my suspicion, as the chief, Allorron, and his people 
declared that they v/ere enemies of the Belinian natives. 

The position had become intolerable. The fact could no longer 
be concealed that the Baris were hostile. jSTo positive outbreak 
had occurred, but the natives were sullen in their demeanour, and 
generally avoided the new settlement. Butchers' meat was exceed- 
ingly scarce, as we had only a few cows that had been given 
during the voyage by the vakeel of the Bohr station. The troops 
were without rations of meat. At the same time there were thou- 
sands of cattle on the islands before their eyes, not one of which 
could be purchased from the natives. Although the natives 
refused to assist us in any way, or to supply us with cattle at any 
price, they drove their herds across from the island to the main- 
land to fatten on the fine pasturage under the government pro- 
tection. This pasturage, having been abandoned by them and 
occupied by the government troops, had naturally become the 
property of the Khedive. The natives had no more right to the 
soil from which they had been driven, than the French would 



CHAP. VII.] THE BARIS OBSTINATE AND REFRACTORY, lid 



liave to Alsace and Lorraine, should those provinces be occupied 
by a foreign Power which had driven out the Germans. 

The last vessels having arrived, terminated the voyage from 
Tewfikeeyah, which had occupied five months and twenty-two 
days. The troops, v\^ho had suffered much by fatigue in cutting 
through the marshes, had not been absolutely relieved by their 
arrival in the clear White Nile. The north wind changed sud- 
denly to the south, in which unfavourable quarter it continued 
steadily for a month ; thus my unfortunate men had to tow the 
vessels along the banks against wind and stream for about 300 
miles from Wat-cl-Shambi to Gondokoro. Upon arrival at that 
station, which I had described to them as the " Promised Land," 
they found a lovely park, but without a single dwelling. Instead 
of being received as deliverers by a friendly and grateful popula- 
tion, they met with neglect and ill-will from a tribe of robbers, allies 
of tlie traders, who fattened upon the spoil of weaker neighbours. 

After all their hard work and suffering in attaining the 
promised paradise, they found only additional labour awaiting 
them, as they had to wander several miles in search of long 
thatch-grass and timber to construct the new station, in which 
fatigue they were entirely unassisted by the sullen inhabitants. 

Added to these disappointments, the men were hungry, and no 
cattle could be purchased from niy new subjects, who were 
obstinate and refractory. 

I had a serious conversation with Sheik AUorron, during which 
I clearly defined our relative positions, and represented to him 
in the strongest terms the folly of trusting to the support of Abou 
Saood and his people against the government, as they were all 
subjects of the Khedive and bound to obey my orders. At the 
same time I informed him of the absolute necessity of cattle for 
the supply of the troops, which I promised to pay for. 

I clearly saw that the miserable policy of these people was to 
starve the troops into the supposed necessity of evacuating the 
position, and returning to Khartoum. I represented to AUorron 
the danger of trifling with a hungry lion, at which he grinned, as 
a good joke, and immediately replied : " li you want cattle, I 
will give you some of my people as guides, and you can attack a 
neighbour of mine, and capture his herds, which will last you for 
a long time." I replied, that I could not injure any one who had 
not committed, an offence, but as he for the last time refused 
assistance, I should not permit his herds to graze upon my pas- 
turage ; therefore I begged they might be confined to the 
island. 



120 ISMAILIA. [CHAP. VIII. 

At the same time I officially invited Allorron and all the head- 
men of the countr}^, including the sheik of Belinian, to an enter- 
tainment. I intended, formally and officially, to annex the 
country to Egypt. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

OFFICIAL ANNEXATION. 

On May 26, 1871, all was in order. A flag-staff about eighty 
feet high had been neatly erected by Lieut. Baker on the high- 
est point of land overlooking the river. Every small bush had 
been cleared away, and the position in the centre of an open 
park-like country would have formed an admirable race-course. 
The troops, having had two days' rest to Avash their clothes and 
burnish up their arms and accoutrements, marched from the 
station at Gondokoro at 6 a.m. 

I had 1,200 men on the ground, including ten mountain rifled 
guns throwing 8-|- lbs. shell. 

In their clean white uniforms, with the neat koofeeia or sun- 
cloth, which, covering the head, drooped gracefully uj^on the 
shoulders, the troops showed to great advantage, as they marched 
with the band playing from head-quarters to the flagstaff above 
my station. As they filed through the green trees, and then 
formed into sections of companies as they emerged into the 
open ground, the effect Avas exceedingly good, and the sheik, 
Allorron, and his friends, the headmen of many villages, looked 
with amazement upon a scene that was altogether new to them. 

Having arrived opposite the flag-staff, the troops formed in 
line two deep on the fiat grassy surface of the heights above my 
station. The long row of glittering bayonets and the gay 
uniforms of the officers bewildered the astonished natives. All 
the sailors, servants, and camp-followers were dressed in their 
best clothes. The prevailing colours, white and red, looked ex- 
ceedingly gay upon the close and even surface of the green turf. 
My staff was composed of my aides-de-camp. Lieutenant Baker, 
K.IST., Lieut. -Colonel Abd-el-Kader, together with three other 
officers, and Mr. Higginbotham. At that time the horses were 
all in excellent condition. 



CHAP. VIII.] THE CEREMONY OP ANNEXATION. 



121 



Having ridden along the line and halted beneath the flag, the 
troops formed three sides of a square with the llag-statf in the 
centre. The fourth side, facing the river, was then occupied by 
the artillery, with ten guns. 

The formality of reading the official proclamation, describing 
the annexation of the country to Egypt in the name of the 
Khedive, then took place at the foot of the flag-staff. At the 
termination of the last sentence, the Ottoman flag was qaickly 
run up by the halyards and fluttered in the strong breeze at the 
mast-head. The officers with drawn swords saluted the flag, 
the troops presented arms, and the batteries of artillery fired a 
royal salute. 

This ceremony being completed, the troojjs marched past ; 
afte? which, they formed in order for a supposed attack upon an 
imaginary enemy, and fired away about ten thousand rounds of 
blank cartridge in the advance down the long slope which led 
to the temporary camp and tents erected for the entertainment. 
Here the bugle sounded "disperse," and all the men immediately 
set to work to light fires and prepare the food that had been al- 
ready supplied for their dinners. I believe this was the only 
day of real enjoyment that the troops had had. The hours 
passed in rest and sleep until sunset. 

I had invited fourteen of the officers to dine with me, and 
our party of eighteen was easily accommodated on the roomy 
poop-deck of my diahbeeah. 

The Englishmen had a table to themselves in the garden, and 
were regaled with roast beef and real English plum-pudding, 
that, having been brought out in tins for Christmas Day, could 
not be found during the voyage ; therefore it added to the feast 
of the " day of annexation," and was annexed accordingly by 
English appetites. This was washed down and rendered whole- 
some by a quantity of pure filtered water from the river Nile, 
which was included in the annexation ; and was represented in 
the Nile Basin mixed with Jamaica rum, sugar, nutmeg, and 
lemon-juice from the fruit of the trees planted by the good 
Austrian missionaries at Gondokoro. Little did they think, 
poor fellows, of the jollification to which their lemons would 
subscribe when they first sowed the good seeds. 

When dinner was over, we repaired to the large divan tents, 
where refreshments were arranged, and the magic lantern was 
prepared for the amusement of officers and men. This was 
an admirable machme, and was well explained by Lieutenant 
Baker. No one had ever seen such an exhibition before, there- 



122 



IS3,IAILIA. 



[chap. viii. 



fore it caused immense satisfaction. One of the representations 
that was most applauded, was, Moses going through the Eed 
Sea with the Israelites, followed by Pharaoh. The story being 
well known to all Mohammedans, the performance was encored 
with such energy that Moses had to go through the Eed Sea 
twice, and they would have insisted upon his crossing a third 
time, had the slide not been rapidly exchanged for another 
subject. 

The formal ceremony of annexation was over, and it was 
necessary to decide upon the future. 

I had issued the following Camp Eegulations : — 

1. "^s'o person shall cut or in other ways destroy any tama- 
rind or oil tree under any pretext whatever. I^'either shall any 
tree whatsoever be either cut or damaged within a distance of 
2,000 paces from the flag- staff or camp. 

2. " jSTo person shall stray beyond 2,000 paces of the flag-staff 
or camp without permission either from the Pacha or Eaouf 

3. " 1^0 person shall trade in ivory, neither shall any person 
accept ivory as a present or in exchange ; neither shall any per- 
son shoot, or cause to be shot, elephants : all ivory being the 
property and monopoly of the government of His Highness 
the Khedive of Egypt. 

4. "No person shall either purchase or receive slaves as 
presents or in exchange. 

"Any person transgressing by disobedience of the above 
laws will be punished as the will of Baker Pacha may direct. 

"S. W. Baker." 

My men were hard at work erecting magazines and building 
the station, and had I not issued the above regulations, they 
would have cut down every ornamental tree in the neighbour- 
hood. Although the mission-house had disappeared, the found- 
ations remained ; I dug them up and procured suflicient sound 
bricks to build a powder-magazine, which I covered with a 
galvanized iron roof and protected my ammunition. 

Several of the Egyptian soldiers deserted. These people, 
who were for the most part convicts, although professing Is- 
lamism preferred to live with the natives, to the steady 
discipline of military life. 

One evening, the sentry, on guard before the house of 
Lieutenant Baker and Mv. Higginbotham, was observed by Mr. 
Baker's soldier servant (a black) to lay his rifle on the ground 



CHAP. VIII.] 



THE THIEF CAPTURED. 



123 



and to enter stealthily the doorAvay of his hut. Abdullah 
Maseri, the servant, lost no time in running towards the hut, 
which he quietly entered in the dusk, without being perceived 
by the thief within, who in the absence of Mr. Baker was 
pillaging his boxes. 

AlDdullah quietly crept up behind liira, pinned him by the 
back of the neck, and held him until he obtained assistance. 
There was no escape from conviction, therefore I sentenced the 
thief to receive 100 lashes and to be confined in irons. 

While he was undergoing the punishment he yelled for 
mercy, saying, " I Avill confess — I will confess all. It was I 
who entered the Pacha's room at Tewfdieeyah. It was at me 
that the Pacha fired the pistol ! Put me in irons, but don't 
flog me ; I will confess all." 

This man was an Egyptian belonging to the "Forty Thieves," 
and he now confessed his former delinquency. He was secured 
in irons and placed under a guard. The fellow had been a 
professional thief, and during the night he managed to slip off 
his irons and make his escape, no doubt with the connivance of 
the sentry. 

The fact of the natives receiving the deserters was enough to 
suggest the suspicion that they were tampering with the troops. 
Although the Baris would neither work nor assist in any man- 
ner, they continued, in spite of my warning, to swim their cattle 
across to the pasturage on the mainland occupied by the troops. 

I again gave the sheik Allorron notice, that if he continued 
to drive his cattle to the forbidden pasture, they would be 
confiscated. 

On the following morning they returned to the mainland as 
usual, not the slightest notice having been taken of my repeated 
and oflicial vrarning. 

I gave orders to secure them. About ten men of the '^Porty 
Thieves" quietly explained the order to the natives who guarded 
the cattle, and without any renioristrmce they drove them to 
my station, and stood guard around the herd. 

The natives returned to the island, and reported the affair to 
the sheik Allorron and his people. 

Early on the following morning, the sheik, accompanied by 
fifteen headmen of villages and a number of natives, together 
with Tomby the interpreter, attended and formed a deputation. 
I received them beneath the shady tree near my dialibeeah. 
They looked very sheepish, and asked me, " Why had I confis- 
cated their cattle ^ " 



124 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VIII. 



I explained the reason : and they at length ackno^vledged that 
they had no positive right of jDasturage, as they had been driven 
from their country by the Loquia, and were it not for my 
presence they could not venture to drive their cattle to the 
mainland. At the same time they explained, that the extreme 
dryness of the season had exhausted the grass upon the island 
after the close grazing of the large herds ; thus they had 
imagined I should not have any real objection to their pasturing 
upon the east banks, which, as I had no cattle, woidd otherwise 
be neglected. 

I explained that the government must be obeyed, and that, 
as they had disobeyed ever}'- order, I should take charge of 
their cattle (about 200) until they shoAved a disposition to ac- 
cept the Khedive's authority. At the same time, if the natives 
would bring thatch grass and assist the troops in forming the 
station (a work which they had always performed annually for 
Abou Saood's people), I would return them their cattle. 

A long conversation ensued among the headmen, several of 
whom rose in succession, and addressed the meeting with great 
energy and fluency. They declared that there had been a 
general misunderstanding, but that they now began to compre- 
hend their position. I informed them that they must themselves 
appoint a responsible sheik or headman, as many had refused to 
obey Allorron. I should regard one chief as their represent- 
ative, and they as headmen must elect him at the present 
assembly. I should also place the power in the hands of the 
chief, whose orders must be obeyed by the headmen of the vil- 
lages. This chief would be responsible to me for the acts of 
those beneath him, and I should punish all those who refused 
to acknowledge his authority. 

The meeting ended most satisfactorily. The natives explained, 
that, although Allorron had been the ostensible sheik for a great 
length of time, the true sheik by actual descent was a chief named 
Morbe ; but as his cattle had been carried off by the Loquia, he 
had lost his property, and also his influence among the people. 
In those savage countries the possession of property is considered 
absolutely necessary to a man in a high position. 

Morbe was elected unanimously as the sheik responsible to the 
government. All headmen declared they would obey his orders ; 
even Allorron ajipeared pleased that he had shifted his responsi- 
bility upon the shoulders of another. The headmen all promised 
that they would beat their drums and summon their people on 
their return to their villages, and that on the morrow they 



CHAP. VIII.] 



NATIVE PROPOSALS. 



125 



would collect bamboos and tliatcli-grass for any purpose we might 
require. The meeting ended by their agreeing to deliver a certain 
number of bundles in a given period : they also promised to 
supply the troops with oxen at a stipulated price. Morb6, the 
new sheik^ then addressed me in the name of the assembly, and 
begged me to establish confidence and goodwill by returning them 
their cattle. I had expected this request. I therefore replied, that 
as they had attended my summons and promised obedience, I 
would test their sincerity by returning them not only their own 
cattle, but I would trust them with the care of my three large 
breeding cows which I had brought from the Bohr country ; at 
the same time I gave them fair warning, that if they broke the 
agreement now entered upon, I should not be in a hurry to return 
their cattle on a future occasion. They seemed to bo quite 
satisfied, and the meeting broke up. 

Tliey drove off the herd, together with my three cows, while 
my soldiers looked on with utter amazement and regarded me as 
though I had lost my senses. 

Although I had entered into this agreement, the natives had 
not the slightest idea of carrying out their promises. A few 
bundles of bamboos were brought, also some thatch-grass, but 
not an ox was given to the troops. The sheik of Belinian had 
refused to appear ; and he alleged as an excuse that he feared 
treachery, since his father and family had been murdered when 
guests of Abou Saood. The Baris of Gondokoro had regained 
their cattle, and they did not trouble themselves about their con- 
tract, as they inwardly hoped that by starving us they might 
succeed in disgusting the troops, which would necessitate the 
abandonment of the expedition. 

A few days after the breach of contract, Tomby, the interpreter, 
appeared, and told me that the Baris had refused to work, and 
that the government would not succeed in that country. The 
people wished me to join them with my troops, and to attack their 
old enemy, Loquia. I should then obtain cattle and sheep in the 
razzia, and the government would be independent. 

This was the regular negro system which had originally 
introduced the slave trade throughout the White I^ile. One 
tribe invariably requests the alliance of a superior force to attack 
some powerful neighbour : the prisoners of war become slaves. 
When trading adventurers first commenced on the White Mle, 
the natives sold ivory for beads and copper bracelets ; and trade 
was fairly established. The armed companies of the traders were 
immediately invited to become allies, and attacks were made 



12G 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. VIII. 



upon various tribes. The cattle and slaves became the property 
of the captors. The traders quickly discovered that it Vv^as far 
easier and more profitable to steal cattle and slaves to exchange 
for ivory, than to import goods from Khartoum. They com- 
menced the system of cattle-lifting and slave-hunting, which 
rapidly increased until it arrived at the immense scale abeady 
described. 

I preached morality hopelessly to the Baris ; tliey were mere 
ruffians, and they longed for the arrival of Abou Saood, who 
Would once more give tliem an opportunity of joining his people 
to plunder and enslave the tribes of the interior. It was in vain 
that I assured them of the impossibility of such proceedings, 
and that Abou Saood's people would not be permitted by the 
government to continue these atrocities. They ridiculed the idea, 
and declared that the traders would always continue in their old 
customs, notwithstanding the presence^ of the Khedive's officers. 
They said that no business could be done in any other way in 
those countries ; they advised me to " take women and cattle, and 
then the natives would listen to my advice, but not otherwise." 

It was utter folly to attempt negotiations with these people ; 
they were the most brutal and obtuse savages. They had been 
abandoned by the missionaries as hopeless, and they would 
acknowledge nothing but force. 

The troops were discontented. After all their fatigues, the 
promised land was starvation. There was still much work to 
be done, as the expedition was in fact only commencing. By 
degrees the Baris absented themselves entirely from our camp, 
and we were left to ourselves as utter strangers. The cattle were 
driven over to our fine pasturage daily, and returned at night to 
their island ; but not an ox, or even a goat, was ever offered for 
sale, and all communication between us and the natives had 
apparently ceased. 

It was quite impossible to allow this to continue. I gave the 
order, and once more the soldiers quietly surrounded the herd of 
cattle, and drove them to head-quarters as before. The old scene 
was re-enacted. The new sheik, Morbe, together with Allorron 
and many headmen, arrived. Again a long palaver took place, 
through the medium of Tomby, the interpreter, and the promises 
of good behaviour were renewed. 

I informed them that I should not confiscate their cattle, but 
I should keep them as hostages for their good behaviour ; at the 
same time, I should select a certain number of oxen as food for 
the troops, which should be paid for. 



OHAP. viii.] NATIVES ATTACK WORKING PARTY. 



127 



The meeting terminated with fresh assurances of goodwill. . . 
. . A few days elapsed, but the Earis did not return ; we were 
completely abandoned. 

On June 29th the camp was disturbed at night by an attempt 
of the natives to drive off some of the cattle. The sentry fired, 
but without effect. I foresaw trouble. 

On June 1st I issued a General Order to the troops — 

" The natives of the Bari having disobeyed the summons of 
the government, and having refused compliance with the regu- 
lations established, it has become necessary to compel them to 
obedience by force. 

In the event 'of hostilities, I specially forbid the capture of 
women, or children of either sex. Any officer or soldier 
disobeying this order will suffer death. 

"S. W. Baker." 

I felt certain that a breach of the peace was at hand, and I 
made arrangements accordingly. The troops were daily engaged 
in building the station, in which they were assisted by the 
sailors, all of whom were obliged to carry the material from a 
distance of two miles from the forest. A party of savv^yers with 
a small escort of soldiers were settled in a camp about three miles 
from my station, as the distance was too great for a daily return 
from their work. One night they were attacked by the natives, 
who shot arrows and yelled for about an hour, but fortunately 
did not succeed in wounding any of the men, who were well 
protected by the trunks of some very large trees. The soldiers 
had fired away a considerable amount of ammunition in return, 
until they managed to escape during the darkness, and run away 
to head-quarters. 

On 3rd June, at about 3 p.m., when the cattle were grazing 
in the beautiful park-like ground about a mile from head-quarters, 
some Baris, who had stealthily approached the herd by stalking 
from bush to bush, without being observed by the sleepy guards, 
made a sudden rush with loud yells among the cattle, and 
succeeded in driving off ten cows with which they swam the 
river without a shot being fired by the unready soldiers. ^ 

On the night of the 4tli June two natives were captured by 
the sentries. These people had crept in the pitch darkness, until 
they had succeeded in entering the cattle zareeba. One of them 
confessed that a large body of natives was assembled in the high 

1 On this occasion the guards must have run away at the first onset of 
the natives. 



12S 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. VIII, 



grass near the banks of tlie river, with the intention of attacking 
the camp during the night. 

I immediately took eighteen men, and posted them in three 
parties of six at various points about a quarter of a mile from 
my station. They were to lie concealed in these positions, which 
commanded every approach to the camp. 

At 10.30 p,M. I was aroused by the sound of firing, and upon 
arrival at the spot I found that the sentries had fired into the 
advanced party of natives, some of whom they declared to bo 
wounded, but I coidd find no trace of blood. 

Open war had commenced. The natives had deserted their 
villages on the portion of the island opposite to my camp. This 
was about seven miles in length, therefore, in return for the 
attacks made upon my people on our mainland, I determined 
to pay the Baris a visit. 

I issued the necessary orders. At 3 a.m., on June 5th, five 
boats with sixty men dropped silently down the east channel of 
the river, with orders to land at the extreme end of the island. 
At the same time two companies of troops landed opposite my 
station, where they waited in the dark until the steamer, with 
myself and two companies on board, had rounded the head of 
the island, and had obtained a position in the west channel. 
The troops then advanced while the steamer ran easily down the 
strong current. Everything went well, but the noise of the 
paddles quickly gave the alarm, and the sound of a big drum in 
the distance was almost immediately responded to by many 
others from various points. 

The steamer now ran at half speed along the river, with the 
intention of cutting off any native canoes, or intercejDting any 
herds of cattle that might be passing to the west mainland. 
Every arrangement was well carried out ; but, unfortunately, as 
we were running at about nine miles an hour, the steamer 
suddenly struck upon a sand-bank, where she remained fixed. 

iVf ter some vain attempts to float her, I instructed Eaouf Bey 
to do his best with her, and act, according to circumstances, at 
his own discretion, while I left the steamer in the dingy, accom- 
panied by Lieutenant Baker and six soldiers of the " Forty 
Thieves," with the intention of joining the two companies mider 
Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kadcr, who were marching down the 
island from south to north. 

We rowed down the stream for forty-five minutes along the 
west bank of the island. I had calculated the distance by time, 
and having allowed for tlie delay on the steamer and the pace at 



OHAP. VIII.] PURSUIT AND CAPTUrJil OF CATTLE. 



129 



which the troops under Abd-el-Kader would march, I conckided 
that we should now land somewhere near them. This turned 
out correct, as we joined his party a few minutes after we had 
left the boat. I immediately detached a sergeant and nineteen 
men to march along the east bank until they should meet my 
boat, v/liich had been ordered to continue along the west bank 
until it should turn round the tail of the island, when i'c was to 
return home by the east channel, that would lead direct to my 
station. 

We had not seen any Baris upon the island, which appeared 
to be qnite deserted. The character of the ground had changed. 
We had left the dry portion, which had been lately sown with 
dhurra, and we had arrived among scattered masses of tall reeds 
growing from mud lately hardened by the sun and full of deep 
cattle-ruts. 

I threw out skirmishers, as we shortly entered a bad piece of 
country. At this moment we heard shots fired at the tail of the 
island, about two miles in our front. 

We pushed on at the double, until stopped by a deep channel 
of the river about thirty yards wide. On the other side we now 
heard the horns of the natives and the lowing of cattle. It was 
necessary to skirt the banks of the channel through thick forest; 
thus, following the stream, we shortly arrived at tlie main river, 
just in time to see the natives at a distance of a quarter of a 
mile swimming a large herd of cattle across the stream to the 
oast shore, wliere they landed and safely gained the forest. They 
Avere quickly pursued by the troops who, having landed at the 
tail of the island, were in chase ; and being supplied with boats, 
they crossed over the river and followed hard upon the track of 
the retreating cattle. 

The Baris did not suspect that they would be followed to the 
main shore ; thus upon reaching the forest they continued their 
retreat leisurely. My black troops were wonderful runners ; 
thus, when once upon the track of the herd, they went along 
like hounds and overtook the Baris, who had no idea of the 
pursuit until the soldiers were among them. The affair ended 
by the capture of a portion of the herd, and the return to camp 
at 5.30 P.M. We had eaten nothing since the previous evening, 
as the boat containing our breakfast had not yet appeared. We 
had been on our legs in the sun for fourteen hours, thus wo were 
ready for dinner on the return to camp. I was anxious about 
the missing boat. On the following day, June 6, at 4.40 p.m., 
the lost dingy arrived with her crow all safe. They had missed 

K 



130 



ISMAILIA. 



[cnAP. YIII. 



their way by taking a wrong channel of the river, which led 
them into a labyrinth of high reeds, where they were obliged to 
pass the night among clouds of mosquitoes. 

On the following day they began the tedious journey by rowing 
homeward against the stream. They came suddenly upon a large 
body of natives, who immediately attacked them with arrows, 
one of which went through the trousers of a soldier. My men 
told a long story, and made themselves out to be perfect heroes ; 
but my servants and the boatmen told a very different tale, and 
declared that they had thrown themselves down in the bottom 
of the boat to avoid the arrows, and my servant, Mohammed 
Haroon, had himself fii-ed my heavy gun loaded with mould shot 
at the enemy. 

On 7th June I discovered that the Baris of Gondokoro had 
leagued themselves with the natives of Belinian against us. 

They had attacked conjointly on several occasions. On this 
day the natives in force having, as usual, crept stealthily from 
bush to tree without being perceived by the soldiers, made a 
sudden rush upon the cattle guards, and shot one soldier with an 
arrow and wounded another with a lance. I immediately gave 
orders for an attack on Beliaian that night. At 12.30 a.m. I 
left my station on horseback, accompanied by Lieutenant Baker 
and Mr. Higginbotham, together with Lieutenant-Colonel Abd- 
el-Kader and twenty men of the " Forty Thieves. ISTot a word 
was spoken, as it was important to march without the slightest 
noise that might alarm the native scouts who were generally 
prowling about throughout the night. We arrived at head- 
quarters, a mile and a half distant, where four companies with 
one gun had been ordered to be hi readiness.^ At 1 a.m. we 
started with a Bari guide named Sherroom, who had volunteered 
to serve me, together with his friend Morgian, at the commence- 
ment of the war. These men spoke Aa^abic, and since the flight 
of Tomby, the interpreter (who had joiaed our enemies), these 
two Baris were our invalualDle allies. 

The route to Belinian lay for the first two miles through open 
park-like country. "We then entered the forest, wliere tlie dark- 
ness made it difficult to drag the gun, the wheels of Avliich 
constantly stuck in the stumps and roots of trees. Several times 
Avc had to halt, for the rear to come uj) with this unmanageable 
gun, and I feared the delay might destroy our chance of taking 
the enemy by surprise. 

1 My little station, Hellet-et-Sit, was a mik and a half ^ north from the 
camp of Qondokoro, on the river's hank. 



OHAP. VIII.] 



THE NIGHT MARCH. 



131 



To make matters worse, the route became swampy. Some- 
times the horses sank nearly hock-deep in mud, which in the 
pitch darkness they could not avoid. In such places it required 
the force of thirty men to drag the gun, and the delays became 
serious. Lieutenant- Colonel Tayib Agha commanded the three 
companies of Soudani troops who escorted the field-piece, and 
took it in turns to assist the artillerymen in the weary work of 
dragging the gun through swamps and bush. 

The night wore on ; it began to rain. I was riding in advance 
with Lieutenant Baker, Mr. Higginbotham, and twenty of the 
"Forty Thieves," while Eaouf Bey followed me with fifty 
Egyptian troops. It was absolutely necessary to push on. Tayib 
Agha had a native guide, therefore he and his gun could take 
care of themselves. Accordingly I pushed on ahead as an 
advanced guard, delighted to be quit of the impediment of 
artillery 

In about an hour we arrived at firm ground, and the country 
became more open and undulating. The clouds began to break 
and the rain ceased. We pushed briskly forward until, after 
marching at the pace of four miles per hour, the guide, Sherroom, 
suddenly halted. "We were now in a clear space where a few 
large trees grew in a clump upon our right. Sherroom, who 
evidently knev/ every inch of the country, whispered that we 
must wait here in silence, as there were villages not far off, and 
the stockade that we were to attack was in the immediate neigh- 
bourhood. It was nearly 5 a.m.; and although we had marched 
since one o'clock, we were not more than nine miles from Goii- 
dokoro, I trusted that our halt would allow the rear to join us 
with the gun which had caused so much delay. 

"We waited for about half-an-hour in perfect silence. There 
was not a star upon the sky, which was dark and murky, thus 
we could distinguish nothing. At length the black night began 
to grow more grey, and we could just make out some dark 
masses, that appeared to be villages, upon the right and left. 
We now marched rapidly, but without the slightest noise. The 
morning grew greyer, and birds began to whistle. We couM 
distinguish trees and the tall crops of dhurra. 

There was no sign of Tayib Agha and his detachment, but it 
was absolutely necessary to push forward. 

We were thus hurrying on, sometimes through cultivated 
fields, at others through strips of forest, when we suddenly 
heard the long shrill cry that is the native signal of danger. 
This was from a Bari watchman, who, more awake than those 

K 2 



132 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. VIII. 



by wlioni we must have passed unobserved, now gave the 
alarm. This cry was immediately repeated in various directions. 
There was no time to be lost. Sherroom bounded forward like 
an antelope, at a pace that kept our horses at a hand gallop. In 
a couple of minutes we saw a large circular stockade in a clear 
space, but within fifty yards of the forest on our left. We 
galloiDed up, followed closely by the " Forty Thieves," who ran 
like hounds. I immediately surrounded the stockade, from 
which the natives had commenced to shoot their arrows. The 
Egyptian troops were close up, and in the uncertain light it was 
impossible to see the arrows in their flight ; thus one soldier was 
immediately wounded ; another received a shot through his 
trousers. An arrow stuck in Mr. Higginbotham's saddle, and 
they began to fly about very viciously. The " Forty Thieves " 
now opened fire, while the Egyptians were drawn up in a line 
about fifty yards from the stockade. It was rather awkward, as 
the defence v/as a circle : thus as the troops fired into a common 
centre, the bullets that passed through the intervening spaces 
between the uprights of hard wood came pinging about our ears. 
The sky had become grey, and there was sufficient light to 
discover the doorway of the stockade. I ordered the bugles to 
sound "cease firing," and prepared to force the entrance. This 
was a narrow archway about four feet six inches high, constructed 
of large pieces of hard wood that it was impossible to destroy. 
The doorway was stopped by transverse bars of abdnoos, or Bari 
ebony, and protected by a mass of hooked thorn that had been 
dragged into the passage and jammed beneath the cross-bars. 

I ordered Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader to force the gate- 
way. Tliis he immediately commenced, assisted by Lieutenant 
Baker and ]\Ir. Higginbotham, together with a party of the 
" Forty Thieves," while others of the same corps closed up to 
the stockade on either side of the entrance, and kept up a heavy 
fire to protect the attack. 

In the mean time the immense drum within the stockade was 
thundering out the summons to collect the whole of the neigh- 
bourhood for war. This signal was answered by the heavy 
booming sound of innumerable drums throughout the district far 
and near ; and as it had now become light, I could distinguish 
the natives collecting from all parts and evidently surrounding 
our position. I therefore posted men as skirmishers around the 
circle about eighty yards distant from the stockade, facing 
outwards, while the small party forced the gateway. 

The fire of the snider rifles and the steady shooting of the 



Fig. I, 




Fig. 3- 



'^'k^- ^^P'^'^ -•^'^-^ - possession of 

4.-Sha, pointed c^bSLt^, ij^i^ .Hbe. 



OHAP. viil] TAYIB AGHA MISSES THE PATH. 



133 



" Forty Thieves " quickly reduced the number of arrows, and 
the natives, finding that it was getting too hot, suddenly made a 
dash by a secret entrance and rushed through the troops, now of 
necessity widely scattered, and they gained tlie forest. 

At the same time the gateway was forced, and we found a 
prize within of upwards of six hundred cows. The stockade, or 
zareeba, was immensely strong, formed of massive logs of iron- 
wood deeply imbedded in the earth, and arranged so closely 
together that not one bullet out of ten would have found its 
way through the crevices if fired from a distance. The proper 
way to attack the circular strongholds is to make a sudden rush 
close up to the defence, and to lay the rifle between the openings ; 
the stockade then becomes a protection to the attacking party, 
as there is no flank fire to enfilade them. 

The natives were now gathering on all sides ; but we were in 
possession, and although our party consisted of only seventy 
men, we had an impregnable position, which I could hold until 
joined by Tayib Agha. I accordingly took a few of the " Forty 
Thieves" to a distance of about 150 paces away from the centre, 
and concealed them as sharpshooters, wherever I found a con- 
venient cover. The fire of the sniders kept the enemy at a 
respectfid distance. 

There were no signs of Tayib Agha. The sun was risen, and 
clouds of steam began to rise from the wet ground and the 
dripping trees. I ordered some grass huts to be fired, as the 
volume of smoke might attract the attention of Tayib Agha's 
detachment, which had evidently gone astray. If near, they 
must have heard the sound of our rifles. 

The huts were soon in flames, and the smoke rose high in air, 
which would be a signal to be seen from a great distance. 

I sent two buglers to the top of a tall tree, from which 
elevated post they blcAV the call for the lieutenant-colonel and 
his three companies continually for about half-an-hour. 

We were hungry, therefore a fat calf was killed, and cooking 
immediately commenced. I had a little box of salt and pepper, 
together with some biscuits ; thus we were in luxury. My good 
Monsoor was a fair cook ; therefore the fat, kidneys, and liver 
having been cut into pieces about two inches square, and 
arranged on a steel ramrod, were well salted and pe23pered, and 
laid on the red-hot embers when the flame and smoke had 
subsided. There is nothing so good as kabobs thus simply 
prepared : the ramrod is then stuck upright in the ground, and 
you sit down and cut off the pieces as required. Salt should 



134 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. Vlli. 



always be carried mixed witli iDlack and red pepper in proper 
proportions ; it saves mucli trouLle. 

We were enjoying our breakfast; the cows lately captured 
gave plenty of milk, which our servants had boiled in the Baris' 
earthen pots^ and we w^ere discussing the possibility of Tayib 
Agha having lost his way, when we heard distant shots fired oh 
the open hills at the foot of Belinian mountain, about a mile 
and a half to our right. We shortly distinguished smoke, which 
was a Tdply to our signal. It was evident that Tayib Agha had 
strayed far to the south, but it was satisfactory to know that he 
had seen our position. 

¦ We could now distinguish the troops with the telescope, and 
even make out the gun that was dragged by about twenty men. 
They were on their direct way to join us. 

My men had captured three young girls, w^hom they brought 
to me. The oldest was about fifteen, and was pretty and intelli- 
gent : she had formerly been a slave of the traders, and was 
marked, according to their custom, by several scars on either 
cheek. The girl spoke good Arabic, and did not appear to show 
the slightest alarm. 

I asked her why the Belinian Baris had attacked us, and 
taken cattle from the station at Gondoroko, without the slightest 
provocation She replied that they had been invited by the 
sheik Allorron to become allies, therefore they had attacked us 
and driven off the cows, some of which were now among the 
cattle we had that morning captured. 

I told her that we never took slaves, therefore she and her 
companions might return to the Baris, and inform them that I 
had come upon the tracks of the cattle which they had driven 
off from Gondoroko. If they desired peace, I should be happy 
to treat with them, but if they should return to attack us at 
head-quarters, I should not spare them, but I would utterly root 
them out of the neighbourhood. The girls lauglied and started 
off, not in the least disturbed by the scene around them. 

At length, Tayib Agha's detachment arrived. They were 
very angry with ^tlorgian, the guide, who, they declared, had 
purposely misled them. Tliis w^as not the fact ; the man had 
lost his way ill the dark in the endeavour to seek a better path 
for the gun. However, we were now united, and I ordered the 
men to breakfast 

The sniders had cleared the natives from the vicinity, and 
now that we had been reinforced by Tayib Agha's party, there 
was no fear of the Baris. They kept aloof, and merely watched 



OHAP. VIII.] 



THE RETREAT. 



136 



our movements from the tops of high trees, where they perched 
like cormorants, and saw the enjoyment of the troops engaged 
in roasting beef that had lately been their own. 

I fully expected a difficulty with the natives when wo should 
attempt to drive the herd of strange cattle through the jungle 
path to Gondoroko. I therefore determined to make a recon- 
naissance of the neighbourhood when the men should have 
finished their breakfast, in order to drive the Baris from the 
vicinity, and thus obtain a fair start for the cattle. 

Leaving one company to protect the stockade and ca^Dtured 
cattle, I took the remaining three companies and the gun, and 
extending the line in open order, with skirmishers thrown out 
in front and the gun in the centre, we advanced through the 
country. 

A large river bed, now almost dry, with very abrupt banks, 
lay on our left. The wood became thinner, and we suddenly 
emerged upon a broad, open valley or plain, which was bounded 
on our right by the high mountain of Belinian, about a mile 
and a half distant. 

The plain was covered with villages, and the entire country 
was green with cultivation^ the dhurra being then about two feet 
high. The gun-carriage ran easily over the flat ground, and we 
advanced rapidly forward, the Baris clearing out of their villages 
and gathering on our flanks as we approached. A shot from the 
gun sent an eight-pound shell which exploded in the air above a 
group about . 700 yards distant. This was sufficient notice to 
quit. The enemy dared not stand upon open ground ; thus, 
after we had driven them forward for about two miles, v>"e faced 
about and returned to the stockade. 

We now opened the gateway and drove out the hungry cattle. 
They looked very wild, and I rather feared a stampede ; it was 
necessary to leave them in the hands of our two allies, Sherroom 
and Morgian, as the cattle neither understood Arabic nor the 
manners or customs of the Egyptians. After a little whistling 
and coaxing in the Bari language, the herd started, well protected 
by troops on both flanks, and an advance guard at 150 paces' 
distance. The rear was brought up by the gun and the " Forty 
Thieves." 

The natives appeared to be under the impression that we were 
going to pass the night at the zareeba ; thus they had no know- 
ledge of our start, and we arrived at Gondokoro and entered the 
station about an hour after sunset, having been out nineteen 
hours. 



136 



IRMAILIAe 



[chap. VIII. 



I now learnt that the Baiis of Gondokoro had imagined that 
the greater portion of the troops had gone to Belinian for an 
excursion of some days ; they had accordingly heaten their big 
drums and gathered together from all quarters to attack the 
camp, but discretion overcame their valour when they found a 
largo force still at head-quarters. 

On June 9, eight vessels of Agad's hove in sight, and with a 
fair breeze they arrived opposite the island at 2.30 p.m. 

Abou Saood was in one of these vessels. 

June 10, Abou Saood presented himself to me this morning. 
His vessels, being without cargoes, benefited much by our work 
in the sudd. He foimd all our cuttings open, therefore he liad 
no difficulty until he arrived at the dam, through which his 
people cut a passage. The great rush of water scoured a deep 
channel, and his squadron of light vessels came on without 
difficulty. I ordered Abou Saood's people to camp on the west 
bank of the river, as I did not wish them to be in constant 
communication with ni}^ troops, who would quickly become 
contaminated by their morals. 

The news brought by Abou Saood from Khartoum informed 
me of the death of Agad ; therefore the representation of the 
firm of Agad & Co. had now devolved upon Abou Saood, his 
son-in-law. 

I ]iow heard that the people of Abou Saood, who numbered 
about 500 men, had brought with them a large herd of cattle 
which they had driven along the west bank of the river ; thus 
in direct defiance of the government authority, he had made a 
razzia upon some tribe during his voyage, and he had not scrupled 
to present himself to me with the herd of stolen cattle staring me 
in the face on the other side of the water. 

On my way up from the Bahr Giraffe I had left a Turkish 
major, Achmet Eafik Elfendi, v/ith a corporal and five men, in 
the Shir tribe, about forty miles from Gondokoro, with a friendly 
sheik named IS'iambore. This sheik was the tallest and most 
powerful man that I ever saw in Africa, and he was a trustworthy 
and good fellow. He had jDromised to cultivate a farm for the 
government, therefore I had given him ten bushels of dhurra 
for seed, and I had left with him at his request the officer and 
soldiers, to represent the government and to superintend the 
cultivation. 

I now discovered that Abou Saood had attacked the natives 
without any provocation, and had carried off the cattle from the 
country adjoining ^^iambore's district. 



OHAP. VIII.] INSOLENCE OP THE SLAVE-TRADERS. 137 



The natives would naturally imagine that my officer and six 
men were spies who liad directed Abou Saood to their cattle, and 
tlicre would be a great chance of a conflict between Niambore, 
their protector, and his neighbours who had been robbed. 

I observed with the telescope that the people of Abou Saood 
who arrived with the herd of cattle were accompanied by a great 
number of natives, and the Baris of Gondokoro, who were at 
open war with us, flocked to welcome the new comers as old 
friends who had been long absent. The brigands had as usual 
arrived with a large herd of cattle, which in Africa is always the 
best introduction ; thus the robber tribe of Allorron was delighted 
at the return of those who had always led them to plunder, and 
had enriched them with the spoil of cows and slaves. I find the 
following entry in my journal, dated — 

'•^ June 12, 1871. — The natives who are at war with us have 
been gathering in large numbers to the spot on the west bank 
occupied by Abou Saood's people. The latter are actually 
holding friendly intercourse with them, and the Earis are quite 
at home assisting these rascals in erecting their camp, although 
they positively refused to work for the government upon our 
first arrival. This is the treasonable conduct of Abou Saood, 
who knows perfectly well that we are at open war with the 
Baris. 

"His large herd of about 1,400 fat cattle were driven along in 
triumph, followed by the admiring population of thieving niggers, 
who hail his arrival as the harbinger of fat times, Gondokoro 
being the general depot for all stolen cattle, slaves, &c., and the 
starting point for every piratical expedition. 

"In the afternoon I started in a dingy, accompanied by 
Colonel Abd-el-Kader, Lieutenant Baker, Monsoor, and four 
soldiers, to visit the traders' camp on the west side of the river. 

" Seeing me approach, a great number of Baris left the traders, 
and taking to a precipitate flight they disappeared in the high 
reeds. The traders' people received me without the slightest 
mark of respect, and one insolent fellow swaggered up and stared 
me in the face with a pipe in his mouth as a studied insult. 

" I went to the cattle pens and immediately j)laced my four 
soldiers as sentries over the herd, v/hich I confiscated, as a 
warning to these ruffianly slave-hunters. 

It vv^ould be a disgrace to tolerate these thieves, as Gondokoro 
is rendered a perfect hell, and the natives will naturally abhor 
any lawful government so long as they can consort and share 
spoils with such brigands as these so-called traders of Khartoum." 



138 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. Yllt. 



Upon my return home I wrote an official letter to Aboii Saood 
of wliich the following is a copy : — 

" IsMAiLiA, or GoNDOKORO, Juue 12, 1871. 

" To Ahou Saood, vaneel of the firm of Agdd ^' Co. 

" Sir, 

" You arrived here on the 10th inst. with a large number 
of cattle stolen by you and j^our people. 

" You, knoY\'ing that the Ban's vrere at war with the govern- 
ment, have nevertheless been in daily and friendly communication 
with them.. 

" The Baris of this countr}^ are rendered hostile to all honest 
government by the conduct of your people, who, by stealing 
shaves and cattle fi'om the interior, and delivering them here, 
have utterly destroyed all hope of improvement in a people 
naturally savage, but now rendered by your acts thieves of the 
worst description. 

" It is impossible that I can permit the continuance of such 
acts. 

"I therefore give you due notice that at the expiration of 
your contract you v»dll withdraw all your people from the district 
under my command. At the same time I declare the forfeiture 
to the government of the cattle you have forcibly captured under 
the eyes of my authoritv. 

" Samuel W. Baker." 

The only error that I can acknowledge throughout the ex^^e- 
dition v/as my present leniency. I should at once have placed 
Abou Saood in irons, and have sent him to Khartoum, instead 
of leaving him at large to carry on his intrigues against the 
government. 

I intended on the first ojDportunity to send notice to the Shir 
tribe of the safety of their cattle, but an incident sliortly occui'red 
that altered my determination. ^ 

At the same time that Abou Saood was in disgrace, he was a 
bosom friend of the colonel, Eaouf Bey, who commanded my 
troops. They dined together constantly iu the house of the 
latter officer, and their friendship had originally commenced in 
Khartoum during the long interval that the regiments were 
awaiting my arrival from Cau'o. It ^vas during that interval 

^ These cattle were kept in a separate pen or zareeba, and were guarded 
when at pasturage by special soldiers for some weeks, in order tirat they 
should be returned to the Shir tribe upon the first opportunity. 



CHAP. viiL] CONSTANT ATTACKS BY THE BARIS. 



139 



that tlio officers of the expedition had fraternized with the 
White Nile traders who resided at Khartoum. 

The result of such intimacy might be imagined. 

The object of the expedition had always been distasteful to 
both officers and men. The traders had already seen by tlio 
examples made at Tewfikeeyah that I should actually destroy 
their cherished slave-trade. It Y\^as therefore natural that Abou 
Saood should exert himself to ruin the expedition. Having a 
friend in Raouf Bey, he was in a position to create division of 
opinion. He constantly associated with this officer, in order 
that it sliould be generally known that he was supported by an 
influential person in the government service. The scandal of 
the camp quickly assumed that the opinions concerning the 
slave-traders between myself and Eaouf Bey were at variance. 

The officers of the expedition had, contrary to my express 
orders, purchased 126 slaves from the stations of the traders 
during the White JNile voyage ! I had only learnt this on 
arrival at Gondokoro ; thus when corn was so scarce that the 
rations were reduced, while those of meat v/ere increased, we 
had an addition of 126 mouths ! 

The policy of the slave-traders was identical with the feelings 
of the officers and men, all of whom wished to abandon the 
expedition and return to Khartoum. Abou feaood worked mole- 
like in his intrigues. He fraternized secretly with Allorron and 
his Baris. Many of his men purchased tobacco from the natives 
in exchange for ammunition. The natives from Belinian were 
in daily communication with Abou Saood's camp, and their 
spies obtained information of our proceedings, and carried the 
nev/s throughout the country that they would be supported by 
Abou Saood against my authority." 

I learnt everything that occurred through trustAvortliy agents. 
It quickly became known that Eaouf Bey was desirous to termi- 
nate the expedition. The contagion spread rapidly, and the men 
worked languidly and without tlie slightest interest : they had 
made up their minds that the expedition was a failure, and that 
a scarcity of corn would be their excuse for a return to Khar- 
toum. Abou Saood fanned the flame among the officers, and 
discontent became general. 

In the mean time the Baris were very active in annoying the 
camp at night. Although these natives could not stand against 
the troops in the open, they harassed them by necessitating a 
perpetual vigilance both by night and day. It was necessary to 
have strong patrols in two parties at all hours j and I regret to 



140 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. IX. 



say the Egyptian officers and men did not appear to enjoy a 
state of -war where activity and good discipline were ahsohitely 
necessary. The Soudani officers and men, althougli ignorant, 
were far superior to the Egyptians in activity and courage. 

Unfortunately the camp was sickly. The men now suffered 
from the fatigue of the long voyage through slush and marsh. 
Many had fever and dysentery. Ulcerated legs Avere prevalent ; 
and this disease appeared to be contagious. Many men died 
from these malignant ulcers, which in some cases entirely 
destroyed the foot. The women did not suffer from this com- 
plaint. It originated from a poisonous grass that festered the 
wound it gave, and rapidly produced an incurable sore. As 
the women had not been exposed to the work in the marshes, 
they had escaped the scourge inflicted by the sharp edges of the 
grass. 

There was no rest for the people ; they had to build their 
camp and fight the Baris at the same time. A scarcity of corn 
stared them in the face. The officers and men were well aware 
that we could not hope for regular supplies of corn and reinforce- 
ments of troops from Khartoum in the dreadful state of the 
river : thus they felt their position keenly, as sick, dispirited, in 
the midst of enemies, with apjDroaching famine of corn, and no 
communication with the Soudan. All these difficulties were to 
be endured for the sake of an object wliich they detested — " the 
suppression of the slave trade." 



CHAPTEE IX. 

NEW ENEMIES. 

Our enemies were not confined to the land only : the crocodiles 
in the neighbourhood of Gondokoro were exceedingly ferocious. 
As the natives were so nnich in the habit of swimming to and 
fro with their cattle, these Avily creatures had been always accus- 
tomed to claim a toll in the shape of a cow, calf, or nigger. 
Two of Abou Saood's sailors were carried off on two consecutive 
days. One of my soldiers, while engaged with many others in 
water, only hip deep, was seized by a crocodile. The man, being 



CHAP. IX.] SAILOR SEIZED BY A CROCODILE. 



141 



held by the leg below the knee, made a good fight, and thrust 
his fingers into the creature's eyes ; his comrades at the same 
time assisted and rescued him from absolute destruction ; but the 
leg-bone was so mashed and splintered in many places that he 
was obliged to submit to amputation. 

One of my sailors had a narrow escape. He and many others 
were engaged in collecting the leaves of a species of water- 
convolvulus that make an excellent spinach ; this plant is rooted 
on the muddy bank, but it runs upon the surface of the water, 
upon which its pink blossoms are very ornamental. 

The sailor was stooping from the bank to gather the floating 
leaves, when he was suddenly seized by the arm at the elbov/- 
joint ; his friends immediately caught him round the waist, and 
their united efforts prevented him from being dragged into the 
water. The crocodile, having tasted blood, would not quit its 
hold, but tugged and wrenched the arm completely off at the 
elbow-joint, and went off with its prize. The unfortunate man, 
in excruciating agony, was brought to the camp, where it was 
necessary to amputate another piece slightly above the lacerated 
joint. 

I made a point of carrying a rifle at all times, simply to 
destroy these terrible reptiles. There never was a better rifle 
than " the Dutchman," made by Holland, of Bond Street. This 
little weapon was a double-barrelled breechloader, and carried 
the Boxer bullet of government calibre, with a charge of three 
drachms of powder. The accuracy of both barrels v/as extra- 
ordinary it was only sighted up to 250 yards, but by taking 
the bead very full, it carried with great precision up to 300. I 
could generally make certain of crocodiles if basking on a sand- 
bank within a hundred yards, as I could put the bullet exactly 
in the right place, either behind the eye, or right through the 
centre of the shoulder. This handy rifle weighed 9|lbs., and 
throughout the expedition it was almost as much one of my 
component parts as a bone of my body. I had a large supply 
of ammunition ; thus I never lost an opportunity of shooting at 
a crocodile's head if I saw one above the surface. On many 
occasions they never moved from the shot when basking on 
sand-banks, but were simply extinguished. 

One of our women went to the river to wash, but never 
returned. This was close to our diahbeeah ; and the water 
being shallow, there is no doubt that she was seized by a 
crocodile. 

I was one day returning from head -quarters to my station, a 



142 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. is. 



distance of a mile and a half along the river's bank, when I 
noticed the large head of a croeodile about thirty yards from the 
shore. I knew every inch of the river, and I was satisfied that 
the water was shallow. A solitary piece of waving rush that 
grew njDon the bank, exactly opposite the crocodile, wonld mark 
the position ; thus, stooping down, I quietly retreated inland 
from the bank, and then running forward, I crept gently towards 
the rush. Stooping as low as possible, I advanced till very near 
the bank (upon Avhich grew tufts of grass), until, by slowly 
raising my head, I could observe the head of the crocodile in the 
same position, not more than twenty-six or twenty-eight yards 
from me. At that distance, the Dutchman could hit a half- 
crown ; I therefore made sure of bagging. The bank was about 
four feet above the water ; thus tlie angle was favourable, and I 
aimed just behind the eye. /Umost as I touched the trigger, 
the crocodile gave a convulsive start, and turning slowly on its 
back, it stretched its four legs above the surface, straining every 
muscle ; it then remained motioidess in this position in water 
about tvro feet deep. 

My horse was always furnished with a long halter or tether- 
ing-rope : thus I ordered the syce and another man to jump into 
the river and secure the crocodile by a rope fastened round the 
body behind the fore-legs. This was quickly accomplished, and 
the men remained knee-deep hauling upon the rope to prevent 
the stream from carr}T.ng away the body. In the mean time 
Monsoor had mounted my horse and galloped off for assistance 
to the camp of the Forty Thieves." 

Crocodiles are very tenacious of life, and although they may be 
shot through the brain and be actually dead for all practical pur- 
poses, they will remain motionless at first, but they will begin 
instinctively to move the limbs and tail a few minutes after 
receiving the shot. If lying upon a sand-barJc, or in deep water, 
they would generally disajDpear unless secured by a rope, as the 
spasmodic movements of the limbs and tail would act upon the 
water, and the body would be carried away. 

The crocodile, that had appeared stone dead, now began to 
move its tail, and my two men who were holding on to the ropo 
cried out that it was still alive. It was in vain that I assured 
the frightened fellows that it was dead. I was on the bank, and 
they were in the water within a few feet of the crocodile; which 
made some difference in our ideas of its vivacity. Presently the 
creature really began to struggle, and the united efforts of the 
men could hardly restrain it from getting into deeper water. Tho 



OHAP. IX.] 



UNDENIABLE WITNESSES. 



143 



monsuer now began to yawn, wliicli so terrified the men that they 
would have dropped the rope and fled had they not been afraid 
of the consequences, as I was addressing them rather forcibly 
from the bank. I put another shot through the shoulder of the 
struggling monster, which appeared to act as a narcotic until 
the arrival of the soldiers with ropes. No sooner was the 
crocodile well secured than it began to struggle violently ; but 
a great number of men hauled upon the rope, and when it 
was safely landed, I gave it a blow with a sharp axe on the 
back of the neck, which killed it by dividing the spine. 

It was now dragged along the turf until we reached the 
camp, where it was carefully measured with a tape, and showed 
an exact length of 12 feet 3 inches from snout to end of tail. 

The stomach contained about five pounds' weight of pebbles, 
as though it had fed upon flesh resting upon a gravel bank, and 
had swallowed the pebbles that had adhered. Mixed with the 
pebbles was a greenish, slimy matter that appeared woolly. In 
the midst of this were three undeniable witnesses that convicted 
the crocodile of wilful murder. A necklace and two armlets, such 
as are worn by the negro girls, were taken from the stomach ! 
The girl had been digested. This was an old malefactor that was 
a good riddance. 

I have frequently seen crocodiles upwards of eighteen feet in 
length, and there can be little doubt that they sometimes exceed 
twenty ; but a very small creature of this species may carry away 
a man while swimming. The crocodile does not attempt to swal- 
low an animal at once, but having carried it to a favourite feeding- 
place, generally in some dee^) hole, it tears it limb from limb with 
teeth and claws and devours it at leisure. 

The camp of the " Forty Thieves " had been finished some time 
since: the gardens were flourishing, and I erected a ''shadoof," 
or Egyptian double bucket and lever for irrigation. Two men 
could lift and throw out 3,600 gallons per hour. I made the 
calculation as nearly as possible : the iron buckets contained 
slightly more than four gallons each ; thus, two men Avith the 
double shadoof lifted eight gallons every eight seconds (or one lift 
in eight seconds) : a gallon per second gave 3,600 per hour. 

I never allowed the " Forty Thieves " to work at the general 
head- quarters, but kept them as my personal escort. When at 
Tewfikeeyah I had been particular in their drill, and I had 
endeavoured to teach them to shoot accurately. The Egyptians 
became better shots than the Soudanis, but I much preferred the 
latter ; by degrees I drafted out all the Egyptians excepting four, 



144 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. IX. 



and filled their places with well-selected "blacks, mostly taken 
from the grenadier company of the regiment. 

At the commencement of the expedition this small body of 
men had well earned the title of the " Forty TMeves " by which 
they were always known among the English party, although pub- 
licly in the camp they ^vere only designated as "The Forty." 

I had taken great personal care of this little corps, and tho 
result was most satisfactory. The thieves had been got rid of. 
I never forgave a fault until after punishment had been received : 
I never allowed the doctor to attend them when ill, but invari- 
ably attended to them myself. I had endeavoured to instil a 
feeling of pride among them, and encouraged them v^dth an idea 
of their superiority to the other regiments. I actually succeeded 
in establishing a code of honour throughout the corps, until it 
was considered a disgrace to " The Forty " that a theft should be 
committed. Is he not one of ' Tlie Forty ' ? " was the usual 
exclamation if any doubt was thrown on the character of a 
soldier. The fact of his belonging to "The Forty" was a 
sufficient certificate. 

The regimental arrangements at head-quarters had been sadly 
neglected, as the men were necessarily so much engaged in other 
work that they had no time for drill except on Fridays. The 
" Forty Thieves " were well ofiicered, having the advantage of a 
lieutenant-colonel and a captain, together with two most active 
and courageous lieutenants, who had lately received their promo- 
tion for good conduct : these were my faithful Monsoor Agha, 
and Ferritch Agha. The young soldier, Avho had been con- 
demned to be shot for desertion the previous year, had shown 
such devotion and activity that he was promised the next vacancy 
in the rank of corporal. The non-commissioned officers were 
soldiers who had seen much service, and the corps was in a 
highly efficient state Avith the exception of the rifle practice. 

While at Tewfikeeyah, having paid much attention to this all- 
important point, I had instructed the officers and men personally, 
and I had established prize-shooting to give an additional interest 
to the work. Both officers and men now took an immense pleasure 
in rifle practice, but it appeared almost impossible to make them 
good shots. Out of forty-eight officers and men, I had only 
fifteen who could be called real hitters j the others were only 
shooters. 

The great difficulty was to instruct them in distances. I fre- 
quently took them away from camp and made them guess the 
distance in paces from some particular object, such as a tree, or 



CHAP. IX.] 



RIFLE PUACTICE. 



145 



white-ant liill. Very few of the men had the slightest idea of 
this important subject ; hut at the commencement, even the 
officers were perfectly ignorant. At length, by constant practice 
at the target^ varying the range from 100 to 300 yards, about a 
third of the corps became fair shots, and these few were tolerably 
good judges of distance up to 400 yards. The colonel, Abd-el- 
Kader, became an excellent shot, as he was an officer who took 
great interest in his profession. The remainder of the corps 
shot as well as they could, and took great pains ; but although 
they were considered crack marlcsmen by the line-regiments, 
their reputation would have suffered if their deficiencies had 
been exposed. At any rate, they were very dangerous with 
such a weaj)on as the snider, when firing into masses of the 
enemy. 

I distinguished "The Forty" from the line regiment by a scar- 
let uniform ; this was a simple red flannel shirt, worn outside 
their Zouave trousers, and secured by a belt, with ammunition- 
pouches, round the waist. This uniform, with linen gaiters, and 
with a head-dress of the scarlet fez, bound by a turban of cobalt 
blue, looked remarkably well. 

In active service, the officers carried sniders ; thus, the corps 
complete consisted of forty-eight sniders ; but together with 
Lieutenant Baker and myself, it comprised fifty rifles. 

The high state of discii3line and the fine morale of this little 
force was a good example of what may be effected, even with a 
material of so low a reputation as the negro. My men were 
natives of various tribes scattered over an immense extent of 
Central Africa. Each had a certain love of the country from 
which he had been originally stolen by the slave-traders when a 
boy, before he found his way into government service. I always 
endeavoured to keep up this feeling, and to create emulation 
among the men of different tribes ; thus, a native of Pongo 
would assume a superiority over a Dinka, although the Dinka 
considered himself of a higher class than a Pongo. A Noba 
regarded himself as superior to all others. But by degrees I 
established a principle that was generally accepted by them all 
— that an old soldier with a good reputation should take preced- 
ence of all others, without reference to caste or tribe. Thus, the aim 
of all young privates would be to become old soldiers, and to rise 
in rank according to their merits. There were several excellent 
examples of good soldiers in The Forty," among whom stood 
first Mohammed-el-Feel, sergeant of the body-guard. The latter 
comprised ten men, selected from " The Forty " as creme de la 



146 



ISMAILIA. 



lCHAP. IX. 



crerne ; these nitn were exemp'ied from all labour, and they 
formed the guard of two sentries by night, and one by day. 

The discipline of this picked corps — " Abd-el-Kader and the 
Forty Theives " — was the commencement of a great moral reform, 
that resulted in an improved tone throughout the force, which 
ultimately did the great work of the expedition. 

The efficiency of " The Forty " was an established fact of what 
could be accomplished where officers and men were governed by 
that peculiar confidence that bound them together as one man. 
Throughout the expedition, after tliis confidence had been once 
established, I never for an instant doubted the fidelity of my 
men ; they would have followed me through fire or water, 
without the slightest hesitation. In action, " The Forty" were 
always in advance, and they were watched with eagerness and 
even pride by the other regiments : vrhen thrown out as skir- 
mishers they climbed rocks, pushed through jungles, and cleared 
the enemy from the country with irresistible activity. Pro- 
motion from the line to "The Forty" was considered as an 
honour, and so perfect was the esprit de corps, that in the event 
of a vacancy being caused by sickness, or other cause, the men 
reported to me the character of the new-comer before he was 
admitted, and respectfully declined to receive him if he bore a 
doubtful rejDutation ; virtually he was '• black-balled." 

A corps of this character Avas a nucleus for an extension of 
military moralit}^ The '• Forty Thieves " Avould not admit a 
thief; and they became generally accepted as a model of what 
government soldiers shoidd become. 

I believe that if it were possible to convert the greater portion 
of African savages into disciplined soldiers, it would be the most 
rapid stride towards their future civilization. The fact of obedi- 
ence being enforced, and the necessity of order, industry, and 
discipline, together Avitli clothing and cleanliness, is all that is 
absolutely required to bring a savage within the bounds of good 
management. A savage who has led a wild and uncontrolled 
life must first learn to obey authority before any great improve- 
ment can be expected. A soldier iimst obey, and he learns to 
respect his officers as his superiors ; tlius, a savage who has learnt 
all that he knows from his officers, whom he admits as his 
superiors, will quickly adopt their religion, as he has been 
obliged to adopt their military rules. My soldiers were all 
Mohammedans, simply because they had been taught by their 
officers that good soldiers should be true believers. 

As I have already described, my station was a mile and a half 



CHAP. IX.] BARIS STALK ANJ) KILL A SENTM. 



147 



distant from head-quarters, and the arrangements under my 
personal inspection were very different from the lax discipline of 
the officers at Gondokoro. 

The natives of Belinian had disregarded the warning they had 
received, and now, having leagued themselves Avith the Baris of 
Gondokoro, tliey were constantly on the watch for an opportunity 
of surprising the cattle guards. Concealing themselves behind 
thick foliage^ they stalked the careless sentries with the adroit- 
ness of American Indians, and sometimes succeeded in making a 
dash and driving off a few head of cattle. 

I was obliged to take extra precautions during the night, as 
my little station Avas dependent only upon "The Forty," while 
the camp at head-quarters was occupied by 1,100 men, in addi- 
tion to about 400 sailors, and the six Englishmen. 

The natives disturbed us every night, and were constantly 
fired at by the sentries. I served out cartridges containing 
eigbt-mould shot, each to be rammed down over the ball in the 
muskets for the night sentries : these would be more likely to 
hit a thief in the dark than a single bullet. The muskets were 
given to the sentries in addition to their rifles. 

I placed my men every night, concealed by cover so as to 
command the various approaches. The station Avas conveniently 
situated, as a large and deep lake completely defended the north 
flank for a distance of about 400 yards. The river defended the 
east face : thus Ave were only open on tAA'o sides, one of Avliich 
was commanded by the camp of " The Forty." 

On 28th June it rained steadily during the night. The Baris 
considered that our sentries would be under cover, or avouIcI most 
likely not expect an attack ; they therefore resolved to attempt 
a surprise. Their advanced scouts approached Avarily in the 
dark, but long before they had reached the sentries, they passed 
Avithin a fcAv feet of a party of guards concealed behind a Avhite- 
ant hill. A shot from a musket stretched one Bari dead. The 
guards pounced upon another and seized him by the throat. 
This Avas a native of ]3elinian ; he Avas accordingly hanged on 
the foUoAving morning to a tree in the pathAvay by Avhich the 
Belinian Baris arrived through the forest to attack the camp. 
This it was hoped Avould be a Avarning that might deter others.^ 

On 5th July the natives made an attempt on the cattle, and 
shot a sentry Avith an arroAV. 

Throughout the expedition this was the only native Avho was hanged. 
Neither Avas any native shot or otherwise executed when taken prisoner, 
except a spy at Behnian. 

L2 



148 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. IX. 



On 7 til July the Baris attacked tlie camp during tlie night. 

On 8th July I sent a company to take possession and to hold 
the island. They met the natives ; and ^lonsoor and Achmet 
Bash Choush had a narrow escaj)e from lances. The Baris lost 
three killed and two prisoners. 

On that day the river rose four feet six, which was the highest 
flood during the wet season. 

On 10th July, at mid-day, several hundred Baris, having 
cautiously approached the grazing cattle unohserved, made a 
sudden rush from the bushes upon the guards, killing one soldier 
and wounding another. The soldiers belonged to the line, and 
must have behaved badly, as the musket and cartouche-box and 
belt were stolen and carried off from the dead man. Tlie shots 
from the guard immediately alarmed the camp. The horses 
Avere saddled, and, attended by Lieutenant Baker, I rode hard in 
pursuit. The natives had gained the forest and had scattered, 
but we rode a red-painted savage to who fought to the last, 
shooting two arrows at me, which I avoided by dropping quickly 
on my horse's neck, and a third arrow stuck deeply in Mr. 
Baker's saddle as he escaped the well-aimed shot by spurring his 
horse across the line of sight. These arrows were shot at a dis- 
tance of a very few yards. The native was killed. 

On 1 2tli July the Baris attempted to surprise both my station 
and the camp at head-quarters. 

On the 1 3th the natives repeated the attempt ; but one was 
shot dead by the sentry at Gondokoro ; also another met the 
pame fate at my station. 

Xtarly every night we were subject to attempts at surprise. 
This was excellent practice for the troops, as it taught them the 
necessity of keeping a good look-out ; at the same time it was 
very wearying, as the men had to work hard all day, and they 
were kept awake at night. 

Tiic Baris were irrepressible vermin that gave us no rest, l^ly 
men were all occupied in building the station, therefore it -was 
impossible for me to take a flying column and give the Baris a 
severe lesson ; but I made up my mind that when the "work 
should be finished, I would take the fight out of them most 
thoroughly. They now considered us fair game, that they might 
insult a3 tliey thought proper ; and I heard from our two faith- 
ful allies, Sherroom and ^iorgian, that they imagined we should 
become afraid of them, and then return to Khartoum. 

They teased us at night like rats, but they lost many men. I 
rather admired them for their persistence, as the scouts miisfc 



OHAP. IX.] 



WILY METHOD OF ATTACK. 



149 



have been adventurous fellows. Whenever these peojDle ^vere 
taken prisoners, they confessed that they were the spies of the 
main body that was concealed at some distance in the rear. The 
favourite method of a Bari attack is during the night, when the 
darkness reduces the danger of fire-arms. On such occasions 
they generally halt either in forest or high grass, according to 
circumstances, about half a mile from the camp they propose to 
attack. Scouts are sent forward to ascertain the positiou and 
vigilance of sentries before the advance of the main body. The 
scouts, being quite naked, crawl upon their hands and knees 
until the darkness permits them to approach within a few yards 
of the sentries. They then lie fiat upon their bellies unoljserved 
until they can retreat to the expectant body in their rear. 

The attacking force now advances in perfect silence, and 
approaching upon hands and knees in the same manner as the 
scouts, they suddenly spring upon the sentries, and with Avild yells 
make a general rush upon the camp. This sudden attack would be 
extremely dangerous unless provided against ; and in this manner 
large parties of the slave-hunters have been completely destroyed. 

Our passive resistance to the numerous native attempts at 
surprise had been misconstrued by the Baris into timidity. The 
news had spread throughout the country that we should not 
venture far inland : thus a grand alliance had been made among 
the tribes. The Baris desired to make friends with their power- 
ful enemy, the Loquia : they accordingly invited this tribe to 
form an alliance and to join in a combined attack upon Gondo- 
koro, by which means they hoped to overpower and destroy our 
force, and to become possessed of many thousand cattle which 
were now at head-quarters. 

The Loquia consented; thus we were exposed to a grand 
coalition. In the mean time Abou Saood and his people, in their 
camp on the west side of the river, continued to be most friendly 
with the enemies of the government, and supplied the Belinian 
natives with ammunition. 

At 1.30. A.M., on July 21, I was awakened by the sound of 
firing at head-quarters. 

I was dressed and armed in a few minutes. The bugle 
sounded the alarm, and " The Forty " fell into position. 

I heard the bugles at head-quarters, together with a confused 
din of native drums, horns, and yells. The first shots had ap- 
peared to proceed from the sentries, but these were shortly 
succeeded by heavy file-firing from the whole force at the camp. 
An attack had evidently been made, and a regular fight was 



150 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. IX. 



going on : it was tlierefore to be expected that my small force 
would soon liave to act on tlie defensive. Spare ammunition 
was quickly in readiness, and we were well prepared. 

In the mean time, a general action was growing hotter every 
moment ; the yells of the natives and the din of their horns 
became louder. I was momentarily expecting to hear the sound 
of cannon, and I was speculating upon the effect that the fire of 
ten guns loaded with case shot would have among such a crowd 
of enemies ; but to my astonishment not a gun was fired. 
Simply the roll of musketr}- continued. 

In about half an hour the native yells grew fainter, the noise 
of their horns and drums was reduced, and the heavy firing 
dwindled to dropping shots. I heard the bugles sound " cease 
firing." I then heard "the advance." Again firing commenced, 
this time in voUe^^s ; then I heard once more " cease firing," and 
then "the retreat :" the attack vras repulsed. 
^ I could not understand why my little station had not been 
attacked ; but I subsequently heard that the natives were more 
afraid of the " Forty Thieves " than of the entire force. Added 
to this was the powerful reason that I had only a few cows for 
milk, while the attraction of many thousand head of cattle in- 
duced an attack on the camp at Gondokoro. 

On the following morning before sunrise I rode up to camp 
to hear the news. It appeared that the natives had actually 
surprised the sentries. \Ve had lost a corporal, killed ; and a 
lieutenant and one soldier were wounded by arrows. 

The Baris and the Loquia had attacked in large force with 
the intention of burning tlie station, as many were provided 
with flaming firebrands, \vith ^vliicli they had advanced bravely to 
the edge of the thorn fence. Had the station not been protected 
by this defence it is probable that the enemy might have suc- 
ceeded in firing the houses. 

As usual, the troops had fired badly. Such a fasilade as I 
had heard should have covered the plain wuth dead. The 
officers and men declared that great numbers of the enemy were 
killed, but their comrades had carried off the bodies. This was 
true to a certain extent, as I saw blood in many directions, 
and we found one Loquia lying dead with two bullet wounds, 
through the head and thigh. 

There can be no doubt that the camp was surprised through 
the neglect of the patrol and the sleepiness of sentries, and it 
was only saved by the thorn fence and the fire of so large a 
force as 1,100 men. The colonel in command of the troops, 



OHAP. IX.] 



COMMENCE A FORT. 



151 



Eaouf Bey, could give no satisfactory explanation for the silence 
of the artillery, but he subsequently told me they had forgotten 
its existencAi in the excitement of the moment. Another officer 
told me they had brought up one gun, but could not find the 
key of the ammunition. I remembered what David said in his 
haste, and I came to the conclusion that they had been dis- 
gracefully surprised. 

I determined to lose no time in protecting the station by a 
ditch and earthwork, so that I could leave a garrison without 
risk, and I would then attack the country in every direction. 

The iron magazines were completed, and all goods and sup- 
plies were stored. The camp was so far finished that the men 
were housed. I therefore clrew a plan for the fort, which I 
intrusted to the care of Mr. Higginbotham, the chief engineer, 
for execution. I gave orders that all hands, including the 
sailors, should immediately be employed to dig the fosse. The 
expedition was well supplied with tools, and the work was 
commenced with vigour, as the officers and men did not object 
to have a deep ditch between them and the enemy. 

I also planned a triangular fort as a protection to my small 
herd of about a hundred milch cows at my own station. The 
" Forty Thieves " did not require a fort, but the cattle might be 
carried olf by a sudden rush that would induce a stampede 
unless they were well secured. 

" The Forty " set to work, assisted daily by thirty men from 
head-quarters, and we soon had a strong fort, with ditch and 
rampart, that defied attack, 

A short time after the grand surprise of the camp at head- 
quarters, the last attempt was made upon my little station, 
which ended as usual in my men being well, on the alert, and 
in the death of one of the scouts, shot by the outlying guard 
through the thigh. Before he died, he confessed that the 
Belinian and the Loquia, together with the Baris of Gondokoro, 
had united in the general attack on the camp on the 21st ; but 
that they had lost many men, who, being badly wounded, had 
died on the road dming the retreat. 

My little station from this date went out of fashion, and the 
Baris declined to attack, as they subsequently declared that my 
sentries were never asleep like those at head-quarters. 

" The Forty " had earned a reputation that increased their 
self-respect. Kot only were they nearly sure to kill the wily 
scouts, but patrols at night searched out the natives, and 
generally came upon them with fatal effect. 



152 



is:\rAiLiA. 



[chap. z. 



CHAPTER X. 

DESTRUCTION OF THE SHIR DETACHMENT. 

On July 30, 1871, I was astonished by tlie arrival of the tall 
slieik, Is^'iambore, with whom I had left an officer and six men 
in the Sliir tiibe, to superintend the cultivation of corn. This 
fine-looking fellow was introduced, accompanied by five of his 
principal advisers. He shortly told me his story. He had been 
four nights on the road, as he had not dared to travel by day, 
fearing the Earis : thus, in the dark, he had frequently wan- 
dered from the track. In the dajtime he had slept in the 
concealment of forests. 

He had run this risk in order to be the first to give me the 
bad ncAvs, lest I should sus]3ect him of foul play. All my 
soldiers Avere killed, except the major, Achmet Rafik, and a 
corporal ! 

When Abou Saood had passed his country some weeks since, 
his people had attacked a neighbom^ing sheik^ and had cariied 
off a large number of cattle, although he was aware of the 
presence of a government officer with a very small detachment. 
Abou Saood had sent three of the captured cows as a present to 
the officer in command, Achmet Eafik, who, instead of protest- 
ing against the razzia, had, Turk-like, actually accepted tho 
present, and thus had fallen into the snare. 

The natives, smarting under the unprovoked attack, visited 
Niambore, and desired him to send my men out of the country, 
as they were evidently leagued with those of Abou Saood. Tiie 
sheik i^iambore refused, and declared that he should protect 
them until he received further orders from me. This implicated 
JSTiambore, and the neighbours then insisted upon the sacrifice 
of Achmet Eafik and his few soldiers in revenge for their lost 
cattle. iNiambore, with a chivalry that is rare among negroes, 
declared his determination of sheltering my people until he 
shoidd communicate with me. He was attacked at night by the 
neighbouring sheiks ; and my soldiers assisted him in the 
defence. The attack was repulsed, and he determined to return 
the compliment on the following day, with the assistance of the 
soldiers. After a long march across mauy deep channels, the 
battle went against him, and in a precipitate retreat, the soldiers 



OHAP. X.] 



FOLLY OF THE BLACK COLONEL. 



153 



could not swim the deep clianncls like Niambore's people ; tlioy 
were accordingly overtaken and killed, -with the loss of their 
arms and accoutrements, now in possession of the natives. 

Major Achmet Eafik and a corporal were safe, as they were 
both ill, and had therefore not accompanied the live soldiers in 
the attack. Niambore had faithfully exposed himself to great 
danger in order to secure their protection, and they were now in 
his keeping, concealed in a forest about a day's march from the 
village which had been their station. 

On the following day I sent the steamer off at 9 p.m. with 
J^iambore and twenty men, the moon being full. The river had 
risen about four feet six inches, therefore there was no fear of 
her touching a sand-bank. , At the same time I wrote to Abou 
Saood, giving him notice of his responsibility for the loss of the 
government troops, caused by his unprovoked and unjustifiable 
aggression.^ 

All my anticipations of successful cultivation had been fruit- 
less. The drought of this year had caused a general scarcity. 
The months of J uly and August should have the heaviest rain- 
fall ; July had just expired with a rainfall of only 1T3 inch. 
The mean temperature had been 71-iV° at 6 a.m.; at noon, 84°. 

I was very anxious about our supply of dhurra, wliich would 
not last much longer. On 1st August I ordered the troops to 
receive fifteen days' rations of rice, so as to save the small stock 
of dhurra until the crops should be ripe upon the island. These 
were guarded by a company of troops. I extract the following 
entry from my journal : — 

" August 2, 1871. — The Soudani soldiers are discontented with 
their rations of dhurra ; and to-day I was addressed by an un- 
reasonable mob, demanding an increase of corn wliicli does not 
exist. These people never think of to-morrov7, and during the 
long voyage from Tewfikeeyah they have been stealing the corii, 
and drinking merissa heedless of the future. 

'•The black colonel, Tayib Agha, is much to blame for the 
discontent, as he has, upon several occasions, in tlie presence of 
tlie troops, told Mr. Higginbotham and myself that 'the men 
could not work well because they were hungry.' This foolish 
remaik, made before the soldiers by their own lieutenant-colonel, 
is certain to create bad feeling. 

^ From that time, I of course gave up all ideas of returning the cattle 
that had been captured by Abou Saood, as I had originally intended. 
Such aa act, after the destruction of my men, would have been received 
by the Shir as a proof of fear. 



154 



is:\rAiLiA. 



[chap. X. 



" I went across to the island to examine the corn : the greater 
portion of the cro^^ will be ready in about eight days, but the 
Baris, in spite of the guards, are stealing large quantities during 
the night. 

" The terrible difficulty in this country is the want of corn ; 
and now that all direct communication with Khartoum is cut off 
by the obstructions in the Xile, the affair is most serious. The 
natives are all hostile, thus a powerful force is absolutely necessary, 
but the difficulty is to feed this force. 

" I wrote an official letter to Eaouf Bey to caution Lieutenant- 
Colonel Tayib Agha against making remarks in the presence of 
his troops." 

On August 3 the steamer returned, bringing Achmet Eafik and 
the sole surviving soldier from the Shir. This officer declared 
his men to have been io subordinate, and that they joined the 
natives against his orders to make an attack upon their enemies 
in return for attacks on their j)art. 

Two witnesses, the surviving soldier and the wife of one that 
was killed, declared that Achmet Eafik himself gave the men 
orders to fight the tribe, in company with the people of jSTiambore; 
but fearing responsibility for the result, he now laid the onus of 
failure u^Don the insubordination of the men.^ 

My people were so obtuse that they could not understand the 
true position of affairs. The harvest was commencing. I had 
jealously guarded the corn upon the island, Avhich should have 
produced at least 500 urdeps ; but the officers and men did not 
wish to see the granaries filled, as that fact would destroy the 
excuse for a return to Khartoum ; thus, instead of labouring with 
heart and soul to gather the harvest, they worked so lazily, that 
in nine days they only reaped 237 urdeps, or not one half that 
M\a3 actually upon the fields. They permitted the natives to steal 
by night, and the swarms of small birds destroyed an incredible 
quantity by day. These innumerable and ruinous pests do not 
consimie the entire grain, but they nibble the soft sweet portion 
from the joint of each seed, neatly picking out the heart ; thus 
the ground beneath is strewed with their remnants of destruction. 

I had not visited Belinian since their unprovoked attack, for 
two reasons. Tirst, we were engaged in fortifying the station ; 

1 The fact remained, that in consequefice of the razzia made by Abou 
Saood's orders the natives attacked Niambore and my people. lu self- 
defence, ]Sriaml)ore and my few men returned the attack, and my soldiers 
were killed. The Shir were thus rendered hostile with the exception of 
Niambore. 



cnAP. X.] 



INTRIGUES. 



155 



and, secondly, I did not wish to raise the suspicion among tlie 
Baris that I might come down suddenly upon their crops. Up 
to the present time we had acted mainly on the defensive, and 
the natives had no fear for their harvest. I knew that about 
2,000 acres of dhurra would be at our service by a sudden attack 
on Belinian, if the troops would work earnestly to secure it. At 
the same time I Avas afraid to mention the subject, lest some 
intrigue might destroy the possibility of success. 

If Abou Saood or his people had possessed a knowledge of my 
intentions, they would at once have given warning to our enemies, 
and would have destroyed my plans. Both Abou Saood and the 
greater number of the officers were anxiously watching the close 
of the drama, as they imagined that with the disappearance of 
supplies, the curtain would fall upon the last act. 

I possessed information that would render me independent of 
corn from Khartoum, if the troops would only work honestly. 
We vrere at open war with the Baris, and we had been constantly 
subjected to their attacks. I had arranged my plans to complete 
my forts so as to be ready for a campaign at the commencement 
of the harvest, when the country would be full of corn. My two 
rich harvests would be Belinian — twelve miles distant — and the 
fruitful islands beyond the mountain Eegiaf, about fourteen miles 
south of Gondokoro. The latter would be easily collected, as the 
vessels could load at the islands, and convey the cargoes down 
stream direct to head-quarters. 

Everything depended upon the officers and men. Eaouf Bey, 
who commanded the troops, was in daily communication with 
Abou Saood, who was exerting himself to the utmost to ruin the 
expedition by promoting discontent, and persuading the of&cers 
that they would die of starvation, and that the Baris were most 
dangerous enemies, who would exterminate the troops should I 
weaken the force by taking a detachment to form stations in the 
interior. 

It was thus pre-arranged by my own people that, even if in 
the midst of plenty, the corn should not be collected in any 
larger quantity than would suffice to feed the expedition during 
the return voyage from Gondokoro to Khartoum. 

In that case, the expedition vv^ould be broken up and abandoned. 
The authorities would piously ejaculate, " El hambd el Illah ! " 
(Thanks be to God !) The country would once more fall into 
the hands of Abou Saood by contract with the government of the 
Soudan. The good old times of slave-hunting would return and 
remain undisturbed. The Christian would have been got rid of 



156 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. X. 



by an ignominious faikire. Abou Saood Avould have boasted of 
tlie success of his diplomacy ; and Allonon and liis Baris, once 
freed from the restraint of a government, would have fraternized 
again with their allies the slave-hunters, to pillage, kidnap, and 
desolate the productive countries of Central Africa. 

I determined that the ex23edition shoidd succeed, and, with 
God's help, I would overcome every opposition. 

The forts v\'ere completed. Gondokoro, or, as I had named it, 
Ismaili'a, was protected by a ditch and earthwork, vriih bastions 
mounting ten guns. My little station was also fortified ; thus I 
could commence a campaign against the whole Eari tribe, without 
fearing for the safety of my base. 

On August 30, 1871, I started with a force of 450 meu, with 
one gun, and one rocket-trough for Hale's three-pounder rockets. 

I left twenty of the Forty Thieves " at my little station, 
together with a reinforcement of thirty men. I had ordered the 
captam of the diahbeeah, upon which niy wife resided, to push 
the vessel off the bank and to anchor in the stream every night. 

The Baris of the Belinian Mountain were well provided with 
guns and ammunition, which they had taken in various massacres 
of the slave-traders' parties some years before. On one occasion 
they had killed 126 of the traders in one da}^, and had possessed 
themselves of their arms, with many cases of cartridges. 

On several occasions they had destroyed smaller parties with 
the same result, and they had never been at j)eace with Abou 
Saood since he had treacherously murdered their Sheik and his 
family. Eecently having allied with Abou Saood's friends (tlie 
Baris of Gondokoro), against the government, some of tlie 
Belinian people had ventured to trade, and had established a 
communication with Abou Saood's people, from whom they 
purcnased ammunition in exchange for tobacco. 

Having given orders on the previous evening that the men 
were to be under arms ready for the march at 1 a.m., I was 
annoyed to find that neither officers nor men were prepared when 
I arrived punctually at the liour appointed at head-quarters. 
The colonel, I'aoiif Eey, was fast asleep, and had to be roused by 
the sentry. This vras a breach of discipline that cost j\Iajor 
Achniet liafik his life. After some annoying delay I started for 
Belinian. At that time, in the dark night, I was not aware that 
Achmet Eafik was absent. This ofiicer was a thorougli-bred 
Turk, and he had seen much service, having been through the 
Crimean war, and also in that of Arabia, under Abbas Pacha. 
He ought to have known better, but he shared the prevalent 



CHAP. X.] 



ATTACK ON BELINIAN. 



157 



feeling of discontent ; thus, instead of being on the alert and at 
his post, he was asleep when the troops started on their night 
march. 

When awakened, he hastily dressed, buckled on his sword and 
revolver, and taking a double-barrelled gun in his hand he 
endeavoured to follow the troops, but mistook the direction, and 
lost his way in the dark. 

We arrived at the open valley of Eelinian at day-break, but 
native scouts had already given the alarm of our approach. 
There were some hundred villages situated in the vale and on 
the heights along the base of the mountain ; but at this season 
only the tops of the huts were visible above the high dhurra, 
which was just ripened, although the general harvest had not yet 
commenced. 

There is no covert so much in favour of native warfare as the 
high dhurra, which perfectly conceals their movements^ at the 
same time that it is easily passed through at speed. 

The Bari drums were beating throughout the country, and 
their horns were sounding in all directions. Clearing the way 
with skirmishers, v/e marched along a good path for about four 
miles parallel with the base of the mountain, until we arrived at 
a plain or bottom, Avhich bore the marks of cattle-hoofs in great 
numbers. This spot was about thirteen miles from head-quarters 
at Gondokoro. 

There was no dhurra cultiv^ation on the right, near the base of 
the mountain, as the soil was poor and sandy : we thus had a 
clear view of the country. The cattle had been driven off, and 
we were only in time to see them disappearing over the distant 
high ground. The natives had collected in large numbers, and 
seemed disposed to dispute the advance of the troops. 

The ground was perfectly clean, as the cattle had fed off the 
grass until it was as smooth as a garden lawn. From the position 
we occupied, the country inclined upwards towards the base of 
the mountain, about a mile and a half distant ; this interval 
abounded in villages, all of which were defended by stockades. 
At the base of the mountain were broken hills, composed of 
huge granite rocks, the foundations of mountains that had long 
since decayed. Upon all these strong positions were the usual 
stockaded villages. 

I ordered the troops to extend in two lines, supported by a 
reserve with the field-piece and rocket-trough. With the Forty 
Thieves " in the front, we advanced along the plain towards the 
mountain. 



158 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. s. 



The Baris now opened fire upon us from their villages, from 
which they were driven in succession, until no enemy remained 
to oppose us except tliose upon the high ground. 

Our right was now protected by an exceedingly deep ravine, 
which was a watercourse cut by the torreuts from the mountain. 
I accordingly took a party of the "Forty Thieves," and following 
along the edge of the ravine, ascended the slope that led to the 
stockades upon the heiglits. Great numbers of natives had 
assembled, and wore shouting the most abusive epithets in 
Arabic until we arrived at about a hundred yards from tlie fore- 
most stockade. Tliis novr opened fire upon us, the natives being 
concealed witliin, and aiming with their muskets between the 
interstices of the upright piles. 

My riflemen now knelt down and fired at the puffs of smoke 
as they issued from the impenetrable ironwood zareebas. This 
was just the work that tlio Baris understood, as their position 
enabled them to fight unseen among the numerous stockades and 
high rocks clothed with bush. 

The bullets were whistling merrily, and presently a soldier by 
my side was shot through the fleshy part of the hip. I examined 
him, and saw that the bullet had passed through, — therefore he 
continued firing. A wife of one of the soldiers was shot through 
the calf of the leg. She had accompanied him Avitli a small 
parcel of cooking-pots and food from Gondokoro that morning, 
and thus came under fire. 

The main body was delayed in the rear, replying to the fire 
of the Baris on the other side of the impassable ravine. I had 
only twenty men with me in addition to Lieutenant Baker. I 
therefore ordered the bugler to sound the " assembly," as I 
determined to attack the stockades with the whole force. 

In a few miimtes the main body arrived, and formed for the 
attack. The bugles and drums sounded the advance, and the 
troops, having fired several volleys, rushed on at the double and 
stormed the ]30sition. This was well executed, and the rush was 
so unexpected by the Baris, th^t the stockades were taken at the 
point of the bayonet ; Captain Morgian Sherreef ^ distinguishing 
himself by the gallant manner in which he led his company ; he 
was the first man to break through the gateway. 

This attack was something that the Baris did not comprehend. 
They had only been accustomed to face the slave-hunters' 
irregular companies, and they had never seen a charge home 

^ This officer was a Soudani -who had served under Mai'shal Bazaiue for 
four years in ]Mexico. 



CUAP. X.] 



ASSAULT ON STOCKADES. 



159 



¦\vitli tlio bayonet. They now began to clamber up the rocks 
and ascend the mountain with the activity of baboons, while a 
sharp fire from the snider rifles acted like a spur upon their 
movements. A shell from the gun now burst over a number of 
the enemy who had collected about 800 yards in our rear. This 
was an unmistakable notice to quit. e set fire to the stockades, 
and the Baris having disappeared, I selected a position for a 
night's bivouac. 

There was a liad supply of water, and we could procure 
nothing ljut a muddy mixture which smelt strongly of goats. 
Wc liad found a number of fat calves and sheep ; thus, having 
fixed upon a site in the flat open plain, the men collected fire- 
wood, and when the evening set in, the camp fires were blazing 
and every man was well supplied with food. 

I doubled the sentries for the night, but we remained 
undisturbed. 

I was very anxious about the major, Achmet Eafik, as Raouf 
Bey and the ofiicers declared that he would have certainly 
endeavoured to follow the troops rather than run the risk of dis- 
obeying the orders he had received. The Baris never take 
prisoners, and should they meet liim, which would bo most 
probable, his death was certain. 

On the following morning I ordered an advance towards the 
north side of the j^lain, where I had observed a line of zarcebas 
upon elevated ground that commanded a view of the plain and 
the base of the mountain that we had attacked j^esterday. 

On arrival upon the higher ground, I found the country 
perfectly flat and completely covered with heavy crops of ripe 
dhurra, in which the zareebas were concealed, with the exception 
of the tops of the huts. Drums were beating and horns blowing 
in all these stockades. 

I had a suspicion that the Baris might have stationed sharp- 
shooters in ambush amono- the hio;h dhurra. I therefore directed 
a couple of rockets through the corn. The rush of these unknown 
projectiles produced a great effect, as they burst through the 
stockade, and buzzed and whizzed about the huts within the 
defence. An eight-pound shell from the gun now crashed 
through the stockade and went howling along through the dense 
fields of dhurra, until it exploded about 600 yards in the rear. 

The bugle immediately sounded the advance with the bayonet, 
and the troops made a rush forward through the corn and 
captured the stockade. 

We now found no less than six of these powerful inclosures 



160 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. X. 



Avithin an area of about four acres. Tliese would form an admir- 
able position. I therefore gave orders that the corn should be 
immediately cleared away so as to leave an open space. Guards 
were posted in various jDlaces ; sentries were placed on the 
summits of the tallest huts to keep a good look-out, while the 
remainder of the force set to work and commenced clearing. By 
sunset we had cut down about six acres. 

I gave orders to Eaouf Bey to divide the troops in four 
stockades, which formed a sort of quadrilateral. This officer 
suggested that the men might all be massacred by a Bari night- 
attack if thus divided, and he proposed to inclose the whole 
force of 450 men within one zareoba, like sheep or cattle ! In 
spite of our sacces-es, the officers had a wholesome dread of the 
Baris, that relieved me from all appreliensions of their erring by 
an excess of rashness. 

I divided the soldiers of the line in three zareebas, while I 
occupied the fourth Avith Lieutenant. Baker and twenty men of 
the ''Forty Thieves." 

Every day was now passed in collecting corn, but the soldiers 
as usual worked badly. In the mean time the natives worked 
most energetically during the night, and carried off ten times 
the amount gathered by the troops. There was so bad a feeling 
among the officers, that it was easy to perceive they were pre- 
determined to neglect this opportunity of filling our granaries. 

The Baris were excellent diplomatists, and, seeing that we 
were too powerful to resist by open force, they sent women to 
treat for peace. This was simply a mancjeuvre to gain time, as 
during the truce they could carry off the corn by day as well as 
night. I always leant tov;ards peace, although the war had 
been wantonly forced upon me ; thus vre soon established friendly 
lelations with an old sheik named Jarda, about two miles from 
the Belinian mountain. This old fellow had an exceedingly 
clever sister who would have made a good foreign minister. She 
explained just as much of the Belinian politics as would suit her 
j)urpose, and very properly declared that the women were all in 
favour of the government, and they would use their influence 
with the men, some of whom she asserted had very "hard 
heads." 

Old Jarda, who was about eighty and had sufficient worldly 
experience to aj^preciate the value of a good counsellor, left the 
diplomatic arrangements to his sister, who became extremely 
active, and ran about the country to collect the principal 
headmen. 



OiiAP. X.] ACHMET RAFIK "STALKED" AND KILLED. IGI 



We had many palavers, wliicli as usual ended in nothing but 
assurances of goodwill, and an explanation that the attacks on 
Gondokoro were made by certain districts, but that Jarda's 
people were not responsible. In the mean time thousands of 
women and children were engaged in carrying off the corn. Tlie 
country seemed alive with baskets, as these useful articles were 
seen gliding about in all directions on the heads of natives tliat 
were invisible in the high grass. 

I returned to Gondokoro for reinforcements, and I collected 
200 armed sailors. With this additional force my wife also 
accompanied me to our camp at Belinian. We had now 650 
men to collect the corn. I noticed an extraordinary diminution 
in the crop during my absence of only two days, but not a 
corresponding increase in the store collected by the troops left 
under the command of Eaouf Bey. 

I had occupied the valley by a line of three stockaded posi- 
tions, at intervals of about a mile and a half ; thus a very largo 
area of corn was commanded, and if the patrols had done their 
duty, it would have been impossible for the natives to have 
carried it off. 

ISTotliing had been heard of the missing major, Achmet Rafik; 
ho had not returned to Gondokoro as I had hoped. I now dis- 
covered, through the native women, that he had been killed by 
the Earis on the same day that we had arrived at Belinian. It 
appeared that the unfortunate officer had steered his course for 
the Belinian mountain peak, in the hope of overtaking tlie 
troo233. This route through the forest led him to the extreme 
end of the valley at the foot of the mountain, quite in the 
wrong direction. Having arrived at the nearly dry bed of the 
Belinian river, he sat beneath a tree to rest. The natives 
quickly observed him, and stalked him as though he had been a 
wild animal. 

It appeared that, when attacked, he had wounded one native 
in the head with his " little gun," as the Baris termed liis 
revolver ; and this man w^as still alive with the bullet in his 
skull, which the women declared was swollen as large as a 
pumpkin. 

Achmet Eahk was thus overpowered and killed, with the gain 
to the Baris of his arms and ammunition. 

I immediately started off with a company of troops, led by a 
Bari guide, to the west end of the plain, where my officer had 
been killed. I had not yet visited this spot, but the guilty 
natives were wide awake, and they had concealed the arms, 



162 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. X. 



which I had hoped to recover. The forest was tolerably open, 
and was full of small villages concealed by the trees. I spread 
out my men and regularly drove the covert. Suddenly we came 
upon a herd of cattle and a number of natives who liad imagined 
themselves seciu'e in the depths of the forest. 

I immediately dashed into them on horseback, accompanied by 
Lieutenant Baker, Colonel Abd-el-Kader, and ]\Ionsoor, follov/ed 
by the troops. The cattle, seeing the red shirts of the " Forty 
Thieves," had gone off in a regular stampede through tlie forest ; 
this precipitate flight had iDcen quickened by the report of the 
rifles. It v\^as difficult work to manage the herd with only four 
horses. ISTo one who has not hunted African, and es23ecially Eari 
cattle, can have an idea of the activity of these animals. They 
go along at a tremendous pace, and never appear to get blown : 
thus WG were spurring hard through the forest in order to over- 
take the herd, when to my great satisfaction we arrived at the 
broad bed (nearly dry) of the Eelinian river. This checked the 
pace, and we reined up our horses, and quietly waited for tha 
troops, who were excellent runners. 

A few men of The Forty " were the first up, and we managed 
to drive the cattle across the river on to the open plain. Hardly 
had we arrived on the level ground, when they started off" in 
another stampede, and kept us going for about three miles, as 
though wo were following hounds. 

'\Vith a horse on each flank and in the rear of the herd we at 
length managed to control their movements. Fortunately we had 
been running towards our camp. 

A herd of cattle generally depends upon a few of its members, 
which are usually followed by the others. Upon this occasion 
there were two cows that appeared to du-ect their movements. 
These wild creatures refused to enter our cattle kraal upon arrival 
at the camp, Avlien the troops, having seen our approach, came 
out to render assistance. With skilful management the herd was 
secured within the kraal, with tlie exception of the two undisci- 
plined cows, wliicli started off at full speed along the plain, 
followed by Abd-el-Kader and myself. A black and white cow 
was exceedingly Adcious,and beinghard pressed for about a quarter 
of a mile, she turned to bay on the open plain. I was riding my 
best horse, named " The Fig," who was very powerful and fiist, 
and understood cattle-driving thoroughly. " The Pig " accord- 
ingly avoided the charge of the infuriated cow, which dashed at 
him like a wild buffalo, I inmiediately shot her in the shoulder 
Avith a revolver, which had no other effect than to turn her toAvards 



Ohap. X.] 



MAKE FUIBNBS. 



163 



I Colonel Abd-el-Kader, who was riding a large, clumsy cliestniit 
j called ^'Janioos" (the buffalo). This horse remained perfectly 
j still when the cow rushed at him, and Abd-cd-Kader instead of 
firing his rifle, received the charge full upon his left leg, into which 
the cow droA^e her sharp horn, making a serious wound nearly 
through the calf. I then shot the cow through the head, but 
Abd-el-Kader was in great pain and quite disabled. 

Upon counting our cattle we found 165. This Avas a very small 

iherd, but they had been difficult to capture. 
Our new ally, old Jarda, with his diplomatic sister, came to 
visit us upon hearing of our success, and immediately asked for 
a calf, which I gave him. 
Jarda's sister now informed me that the sheik of the mountain 
wished for peace, and requested permission to visit me. On the 
following day he appeared. He was a fine powerful fellow, but 
with a bad expression. I had already heard that Jarda and he 
were not friends, therefore I looked upon this introduction with 
suspicion. 

After the usual declaration of friendship by the new sheik, and 
an apology for past misdemeanours, presents v/ere requested. A 
fat calf was given — then a sheep was demanded ; this was also 
supplied. Wc now came to business. It appeared that the 
Eclinian Baris had been called upon by Allorron to become allies, 
at the same time that Loquia had been invited to join in the 
general attack tliat had been made upon Gondokoro. 
I Loquia had hesitated, but had at length joined Belinian, as the 
j government troops had been reported as great cowards who were 
afraid to venture far from their head-quarters. The many thou- 
sand cattle known to be at Gondokoro, and the fabulous amount 
of stores and material, at length tempted the Loquia to join 
forces. 

On the night of the attack, it now appeared that Loquia had 
lost many men killed ; others who were wounded dropped on the 
way, and died on the route through Belinian. This loss so enraged 
Loquia (who considered that he had been only used as a cat's- 
paw), that he was determined not to return home empty-handed. 
He therefore revenged himself upon his allies, and captured about 
2,000 head of cattle from Belinian, with which he returned to his 
mountains two days' distant. 

On the day following my interview vrith the sheik of the moun- 
tain, " Wani," I received information which made me suspect 
that he was not the real sheik, and that some trick was 
intended. 

M 2 



164 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. s. 



Once more I M^as waited upon "by old Jarda, with his female 
minister of foreign affairs, in company witli Wani, the reputed 
sheik of the mountain, togetlier witli a number of headmen. 

I now received a direct proposal to form a general alliance. 
The Belinian Baris declared allegiance to the government^ and 
proposed to join all their forces to make a great attack, in con- 
junction with the troops, upon a country about sixteen miles 
distant, governed by a sheik named Lokko. They described this 
country as abounding in corn, and sesame, in addition to great 
wealth in cattle. They also declared that they had already sent 
spies into the land, who had returned with the news that the har- 
vest was over, and all the grain was stowed in the granaries ; 
thus the troops would have no trouble in collecting the corn. 

They also promised that if I Vv^ould make the attack, they would 
collect all their women and transport the corn to head-quarters 
at Gondokoro ; thus the soldiers vrould have no fatigue. At the 
same time they described the people of Lokko as very powerful, 
and declared that I should require nearly all my force, as very 
few troops would be now necessary to protect my camp at 
Belinian, as we were all friends ! 

This kind regard for my military arrangements confirmed my 
suspicions. It was intended to draw olf the greater portion of 
the troops to a distance, in company Vvuth the pretended allies. 
The attack was really to be made on Lokko, but my trooj^s were 
also to be overpowered when unsuspectingly returning by a night 
march with the spoil. The cattle captured from Lokko Avould 
then fall into the hands of Belinian, and my camp, protected by 
a v.'eak force, was to be surprised. 

I pretended to enter into this scheme, but I expressed a doubt 
whether they would perform their part of the engagement, and 
convey the corn from Lokko to Gondokoro. This they declared 
emphatically they would do without failing. 

I proposed, that if they could convey such an enormous quan- 
tity so great a distance from Lokko to Gondokoro, they should first 
prove their fidelity by transporting the fcvr hundred urdeps from 
our Belinian camp to head-quarters. If they would assist us in 
this manner, they should bo paid for their trouble, and I should 
then believe in their sincerity. On the other hand, if they refused, 
I should be perfectly certain that they would also decline to 
transport the corn from Lokko, and that every individual -would 
merely scramble for spoil, and return to Belinian with a load of 
plunder for his own use. 

We should then be left at Lokko in a foolish position. 



ou Ar. x.] 



DISCOVERY OF TREACHERY. 



165 



After much discussion, they promised to carry the corn to 
Gondokoro before commencing operations against Lokko ; but 
I at once perceived by their manner, that they had not tlie sHght- 
est intention of performing any such contract. They felt that 
their scheme had been found out. 

Although Africans are notoriously cunning and treacherous, 
they have not sufficient patience or self-sacrifice to enable them 
to carry out a perfect scheme. If the Belinians had wished to 
succeed in their plan, they should have willingly carried the corn 
to Gondokoro, and thus have established confidence. In all my 
experience with African tribes, I have observed this want of 
organization in their plans. Like ignorant chess-players, they 
only think of the first few moves, and thus are at a loss when 
suddenly checked. 

Of course I had no intention of attacking Lokko, as I had no 
complaint against him ; and although a Bari, he was a chief who 
had always behaved well to the Austrian missionaries. This por- 
tion of the Bari tribe, instead of being sixteen miles^ was at least 
thirty from the north of Belinian, and was situated on the White 
Nile, where the sheik, Lokko, was known to the traders as " Oom 
Mckla." 

The following extracts from my journal will at once explain 
the state of affairs. The natives had lost their chance, and feeling 
that their treachery had been discovered, they never came to me 
again : — 

Sejjiember 22, 187L — No natives wiU come near us. Abou 
Saood arrived with forty men to ask my permission that he 
might start for Khartoum. 

September 23. — The natives, disappointed in their trick, 
will have nothing to say to us." 

On the 25th September the natives treacherously attacked an 
unarmed soldier. This man had strayed a few hundred yards 
from the camp, against orders, to search for wild thyme. A 
native met him and accosted him by the welcome " Adotto julio." 
The soldier advanced close, when the treacherous Bari immedi- 
ately shot an arrow into him. This passed through his arm with 
such force that more than half the length of the arrow protruded 
on the other side. The soldier shouted for help, and the Bari 
decamped as he saw others running to the rescue. 

On the same day, two women were attacked when they went 
to fetch water, and their clothes were stolen by the natives. 

On September 27, an artilleryman went to the river about 400 
yards distant to fetch water, alone. This was quite contrary to 



166 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. X. 



orders. The thoughtless fellow left his musket on the bank 
while he descended to the sandy bed, through which trickled a 
clear stream. 

He was watched by the natives wlio Avcre lying in wait, con- 
cealed by the high dliurra. These rascals suddenly rushed out 
and sjDeared him to death. The man screamed so loudly before ho 
died, that a number of soldiers rushed to his assistance from the 
camp, but they were only in time to bring in his body. 

This was at 4 p.m., and I observed natives armed, who were 
hovering about on all sides. 

I sounded the bugle, and attacked them without dela}^, de- 
stroying several stockades. It is impossible to come to any terms 
with such treacherous people. In spite of my kindness and wish 
to do good and to benefit their country, they requite me with the 
murder of any unarmed man whom they can find. 

^' Sejjtembcr 29. — I attacked a position on the mountain. 
Having tired several rockets from the base, into a station about 
350 feet above, I ordered the troops to advance from two sides. 
My men scrambled c^uickly up the rocks and destroyed the 
station. 

" September 30. — A few days ago, the soldiers purposely burnt 
several granaries full of corn, and tln-eatened to kill Sherroom 
and Morgian, my Eari iiitL'r})relers, if they should report the act 
to me, saying, ' If the corn is hnished^ Ave shall all go back to 
Khartoum.' " 

"This proves that the old spirit against the expedition still 
exists. The men take their cue from the officers." 

In spite of the general discontent, I could place the greatest 
reliance upon the " Fort}^ Thieves " and their officers. This 
little corps performed nearly all the active service. Their red 
shirts had become so well known, that the colom' was enough to 
keep the natives at a distance ; but although the Baris were now 
afraid to risk a stand-up fight, they troubled us by their stealthy 
tactics. It was impossible to say where they were concealed. 
They were spread all over the country : some hidden in the tall 
dhurra, others behind bushes. Their favourite place was in the 
grass and scattered bush on the banks of the river, Avhere they 
lay in wait for any unlucky soldier whose disobedience of orders 
led him to tempt his fate. 

It seemed ahnost as impossible to clear the country of these 
people, as to purge Africa from snakes. Patrols were of little 
service, as the natives lay as closely concealed as liares in form. 

I determined at length to meet them with their own tactics. 



OHAP. X.] 



AMBUSCADES. 



167 



They occupied the neighbourhood in ambush. ... I would also 
lie in ambush. This system of ambuscade employed so gener- 
ally by the Baris had created a wholesome alarm among the 
troops, which tended to obedience. They now began to appre- 
ciate the orders that no o]ie should stray alone from the camp, 
and that the watering party should consist of a powerful guard. 
At the same time, the surprises that had occurred had somewhat 
shaken their confidence. 

I called the Forty Thieves " together. These fiue fellows 
always took a great interest in their work, 

I explained to them the difficulty of fighting against an enemy 
whose tactics would not permit a battle ; at the same time, I 
should now operate against them somewhat uj^on their own prin- 
cii^le ; by establishing a series of sharpshooters who should 
occupy the neighbourhood, and render it impossible for the Baris 
to remain in the country. 

My corps was now complete, as I had brought up those who 
had remained at Gondokoro ; I had thus forty-eight officers and 
men. To this force I now added fifty selected men from the 
line, and marched them away from camp. 

TJpon arrival at the broad bed of the river, I explained to 
them the plan. The natives generally approached unperceived 
by means of this winding trench, which entirely concealed them. 
The banks of this river were in most places nearly perpendicular, 
and were about nine feet deep. The river was about sixty or 
seventy paces broad, and was nearly dry, as a very shallow 
stream flowed through the centre of its bed. 

If the high banks were occupied for a distance of several miles 
by small parties of sharpshooters concealed in high dliurra, or 
behind an ant-hill, or crouched in high grass or bush, or in any- 
thing that would serve as a protection, it w^ould be impossible 
for the Baris to approach by the favourite river-bed, without 
being exposed to a deadly fire from the long line of sentries. 

I therefore selected a position commencing far beyond my lino 
of posts, and entirely commanding the river-bed for a distance of 
several miles. The soldiers were delighted with the j)lan 
suggested. I arranged that before daylight on the following 
morning, they should occupy the positions assigned in parties of 
two men if sniders, or three if muskets, at intervals of one 
hundred paces ; thus the country would be protected by a chain 
of guards perfectly concealed from view. 

I gave orders to the officers commanding th« two stockades to 
carry out this system throughout the neighbourhood, so that it 



1G3 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. X. 



would be impossible for any enemy to move Vvithout falling into 
an ambuscade.. 

At daybreak I was up, and as usual drank my coffee and 
smoked the morning pipe. At that time my wife and I occupied 
a tent outside the stockade, beneath the most magnificent 
tamarind-tree that I have ever seen. From this spot we had a 
clear view of the country. On the west of the plain, two miles 
distant, rose the mountain of Eelinian. On the east Avas park- 
like land interspersed with fine ornamental timber, through 
which the river winded. Yov about a hundred acres aroun.l the 
camp, the high dhurra had been cut down ; therefore the view 
was uninterrupted. 

Everything was perfectly still at this early hour ; the birds 
Vvere only beginning to chirp, and the vultures vv'ero just lazily 
assembUng to see if they could discover one more morsel at the 
slaughtering-place of the preceding day. 

No one would have suspected that the entire neighbourhood 
was occupied by sharpshooters, for a distance of some miles. 

The wily Baris had delighted in their leopard-like tactics, 
which had given them several oj)portunities of inflicting loss 
upon the troops. They now commenced their daily occupation, 
and started in small but numerous parties from their distant 
villages, for the purpose of waylaying any stragglers. The sun 
rose, and with my telescope I observed natives about half a mile 
distant on the other side of the river ; sometimes these people 
disajDpeared in the high dhurra ; every now and then they 
reappeared ; then again they were lost to yiqw. They Avere 
stealthily approaching for the purpose of occupying their positions 
for concealment. These wily Baris imagined that Ave Avcre, as 
usual, keeping on the alert around the camp, but they had no 
idea that the leopard Avas himself so near the hidden snare. 

Suddenly a puff" of Avhite smoke shot up from the bright 
green grass on the other side of the river-bed — then another, 
folloAved by the reports of tAvo rifles ! I saAV natives ranning at 
full speed to the loft. Another and another puff of smoke iasued 
from a different quarter, as the astonished Baris in their hasty 
retreat stumbled over the next ambuscade, I noAV saAv a native 
running like a deer, but chased like a good deerhound by one of 
the Forty Thieves." The native Avas so hard pressed by this 
good runner, Avho Avas encumbered with clothes, rifle, and ammu- 
nition, that he had been obliged to throAV aAvay his bow and 
arroAvs, together vnth his lance. He noAV gained upon the 
soldier slightly, but they Avere not five paces apart Avhen they 



CHAP. X.] 



ALI NEDJAR. 



1G9 



disapi3earecl in the higli dhurra. That soldier was Ali J^edjar, 
of the " Forty Thieves," the strongest man, the best shot, and 
the fleetest runner of the force. Presently I hoard a shot. 

Throughout that day occasional shots were hoard in every 
conceivable quarter. I took a walk through the country, 
attended by a few of my men, and upon several occasions I was 
challenged from a bush, or inm-p of high grass, showing that the 
men were all in j^osition and well concealed. 

When the bugle recalled the sharpshooters in the evening, 
each had some adventure to recount, and the whole camp 
rejoiced in the success of the manoeuvre ; it was a case of " the 
biter bit." 

The men now looked forward to this employment, and 
starting at daybreak, they took their supply of food for the day. 

Some of them were very clever at this kind of service, 
especially Ali Ned jar. Ali was a native of Bongo — a broad- 
shouldered, muscular fellow, with thighs hke a grasshopper. It 
was a pleasure to see him run, and to witness the immense 
power and speed with which he passed all competitors in the 
prize races, in which I sometimes indulged my men. Ali Nedjar 
was a good soldier, a warm lover of the girls, and a great dancer ; 
thus, according to African reputation, he was the lie j^^us ultra 
of a man. Added to this, he was a very willing, good fellow, 
and more courageous than a lion. 

I had several men of Ali ISTedjar's stamp in ''The Forty," 
among which were the three Ferritch — Ferritch Agha Suachli, 
Ferritch Ajoke (formerly condemned to be shot), and Ferritch 
Baggara ; and it may be easily imagined that a corps composed 
of such material was an awkward enemy for the Baris. 

After a few days, the ground became almost too hot for the 
natives. They now ascended high trees, from which they could 
survey the country and direct the movements of their scouts. 
Ali Nedjar was too much for them even with this precaution. 
He had observed them like rooks in a large tree at a great 
distance. The tree grew wild in a field of high dliurra, and 
while the wily Baris were looking out from their lofty post, 
expecting to discover us in the distance, the still more Avily Ali 
JN'edjar had crept on hands and knees through the corn, and was 
actually beneath the tree ! 

The report of a snider rifle under their feet, and the fall of 
one of their party, was the first intimation they received of the 
soldier's presence. 

This plan of occupying the country was most successful, and 



170 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



in a short time the Baris entu^ely abandoned the neighbourhood. 
They confessed afterwards, that it was useless to attempt to fight 
with such peojDle, as the earth was full of soldiers who sprang 
up out of the ground beneath their feet. 

We had been thirty-hve days at Belinian, and the enemy had 
been entirely subdued. I explained to them my determination 
of paying them another visit should we ever be disturbed again 
at Gondokoro ; thus if they wished for peace, they must remain 
quiet. 

Tlie soldiers and sailors, including all the women of the camp, 
were employed for some days in conveying the corn to head- 
quarters. If our peoi)le had worked well, v/e should have had a 
supply for twelve months. Instead of which, a force of 650 
men had actually delivered in the magazine only 150 urdeps, or 
about 670 bushels. 

I have naturally omitted many military incidents, and have 
only given an outline of the Belinian campaign, but the moral 
effect was good on all sides. The soldiers had learnt their own 
superiority to the natives, and had gained experience and con- 
fidence ; and the Baris of Belinian had learnt the truth : and in 
future we should sleep in peace at head-quarters. 



CHAPTER XI. 

SPIRIT OF DISAFFECTIOX. 

The amount of corn collected by the troops, now in the maga- 
zines, was only sufficient for two months' consumption at full 
rations. 

There was a spirit of general disaffection among the officers 
and troops. 

Although I had worked with them in every difficulty and led 
tliem invariably to success, there was a general dislike, not to mo 
personally, but to the system of rigid discipline that I was 
determined at all hazards to enforce, and to the general object of 
the expedition. 

JN'eitlier officers nor men could understand why, during open 
war, I slioidd forbid tlie capture of women and children, who, 
by all Moliammcdan rules, were lawful prizes ! 



CHAP. XI.] 



DESIRE FOR SLAVE-TRADING. 



171 



• It was not slave-hunting : they were simple prisoners of war 
that God had doliverod into their hands; and it was a hard case 
that, after all tlie trouble and difficulties which had been encoun- 
tered, they should be debarred from taking a few prisoners. 

This was the argument of the military force, to which, had I 
yielded, the expedition would have quickly relapsed into the 
original slave-hunting of the White ^ile, which I Avas bound to 
suppress. I have already described the direct disobedience of 
the officers in having purchased 126 slaves secretly from the 
slave-hunters' station during the voyage. A slave trade would 
quickly spring up between the Khedive's officers and the slave- 
hunters of Abou Saood, unless I enforced the strictest discipline. 
The expedition Avould represent a government slave market for 
the reception of slaves captured by the Khartoum companies. 

It may easily be imagined, that my determination to enforce 
obedience to the newly-instituted reform caused bitter disap- 
pointment and disgust. The government I had established 
afforded justice and protection to all, whether freeman or slave. 
I had not interfered Avith the slaves that had been the property 
of officers prior to my taking the command of the expedition ; 
these remained in their original position, with the simple 
improvement, that they could not be ill-treated with impunity. 

A 2^oor little Abyssinian boy, about eleven years of age, had 
one day crawled through the high river grass to escape the 
observation of the sentries, and suddenly appeared on the deck 
of my diahbeeah to claim protection. He was streaming with 
blood, and had been shamefully ill-used by his master, who was 
a captain in the Egyptian regiment. The boy demanded his 
freedom, and I immediately granted his release. ^ 

This forfeiture of this child was a warning that had an excel- 
lent effect in favour of the slaves, but was very unpopular among 
the force. 

Although I regretted the ill feeling which existed on all sides, 
I considered the position Avith patience ; and I could not help 
admitting that this was a natural and inevitable consequence of 
a sudden reform which threatened so many interests. 

At tlie same time, I was determined to carry out my mission 
without shrinking from any consequences. I was ordered to 
suppress the slave trade ; therefore that slave trade should bo 

^ This boy, named Amarn, was a great example to others in his general 
good conduct and integrity. He accompanied us throughout the subse- 
quent trials of the expedition with much devotion, and he is now one of 
our household in England. 



172 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



suppressed ; and I trusted tliat time ^vould eventually give me 
so improved a control over tlie feelings of my people, that I 
might succeed in a reform and yet banish all ill-will. 

In the midst of anxieties, there was one lasting satisfaction in 
my position. I had the power to execute absolute justice, and 
I wished for no other reputation among my people, whether 
slaves or freemen, than the confidence of pure equity to be 
obtained without delay. At all houi'S I was accessible, and even 
the complaints of little children were attended to w^itli the same 
attention that was bestowed upon more important appeals. I 
hoped by this line of conduct to be able at length to incorporate 
myself with the expedition, and to gain the affection of my 
people ; without which, success would be impossible. 

The terrible absence of discipline among the troops was a 
great difficulty, but I had already improved them greatly. Since 
the mutiny of the black division at Taka, in the year 1865, when 
they murdered their officers, and committed many atrocities, 
the Egy2)tian officers had always distrusted them. 

I was told by the colonel, Eaouf Bey, that if a black soldier 
were punished, his comrades would probably mutiny, should he 
be a general favourite. The extreme laxity of discipline was 
the result of a want of vigour on the part of the officers. 

At the commencement of the Bari war, the conduct of the 
troops, both black and white, was disgraceful. I have seen 
them, in the presence of the enemy, rush into a village and 
commence indiscriminate pillage : the officers mingled with their 
men in a race for plunder. Several soldiers had been killed by 
the natives upon such occasions, when separated from the rest 
in search of spoil. The colonel had assured me that it was 
impossible to prevent this sacking of villages, as it Avas the 
reward the troops expected after a victory. 

Fortunately my model corps, the "¦ Forty Thieves," were 
always with me, which enabled me to act decidedly. My lieu- 
tenant-colonel, Abd-el-Kader, and the faithful IMonsoor, were 
ready to carry out my orders on the spot. 

When I caught the troops in disorderly pillage^ I had the 
principal actors seized and laid down on the instant in the 
centre of the men, and administered fifty apiece with a stout 
bamboo. 

The Soudani soldiers quickly perceived that the reins were 
tighter than formerly ; and I followed up the principle of stern 
2)unishment until I obtained an absolute control, without tho 
slightest attempt at resistance to my authority. 



onAr. XI.] 



OUR DOMESTICS. 



173 



I had learnt to like the Soudaiiis ; there was an untiring 
energy in their movements very unlike the Egyptians ; tlicy 
only required European officers to become first-rate troops. 

Although the force had much improved by the increase of 
discipline, they would have much preferred the good old times 
of plunder and prisoners. The officers had always looked 
forward to the glorious opportunity of procuring a few slaves in 
Central Africa, although they could not exactly define the 
manner of obtaining them : thus my severe orders upon this 
subject caused a serious heart-burning, and a desire to give up 
so barren an expedition. 

The station was now complete, and well fortified by a ditch 
and earthwork. My own little station was the picture of neat- 
ness. I had two acres of the finest Egyptian cotton (galleen). 
Every inch of the knoll Avas highly cultivated, the lawn was 
closely cut, and the diahbeeah, which was our home, lay snugly 
alongside the bank, close to which was a little summer-house, 
surrounded by a prolific garden. This was a little gem of 
civilization set in the middle of savage Africa. My "Eorty 
Thieves " were perfect gentlemen in comparison with the line 
regiments. The sanitary arrangements of the station were 
good ; there was very little sickness, at the same time that 
upwards of 400 men suffered from ulcerated legs at head- 
quarters. 

Our domestics vfere much improved. Those who had been 
slaves liberated by me from the traders' vessels at Tewfikeeyah, 
had learnt their duties, and had become very useful. My wife 
had trained some nice girls of seventeen or eighteen to household 
duties, in addition to half a dozen excellent boys, who were 
all neatly clothed, and kept in admirable discipline. Among 
these was the Abyssinian boy, "Amarn," who had lately 
received his freedom. He was a pretty little lad, and his brown 
complexion looked quite light in comparison with his coal-black 
comrades. The Abyssinian blood showed in strong contrast to 
the negro type around him, and he was far superior in intel- 
ligence to any of the Central Africans. 

The girls were under old Karka, who had been with us through- 
out our former journey. This old woman was very proud 
because I had given £12 to purchase her freedom in Khartoum. 
She was a good old soul, but wonderfully fond of fine clothes ; 
and on great occasions she always turned out in clouds of snowy 
muslin .with red edges and fringe, like a young Abyssinian 
beauty. It was amusing to see her emerge from her hut in full 



174 



LSMAILIA. 



[chap. xi. 



costume, lier broad, flat face beaming with smiles in liappy 
consciousness of universal admiration. 

Old Karka was a sort of duenna to watcli over the morals of 
the younger girls, and to see that they did not become too 

fast " ; but I believe that even the heart of Karka beat high 
when a certani corporal of the gallant "Forty Thieves" passed 
by. Old Karka was actually accused of sending presents of 
food, carefully cooked by her own hands, to the house of this 
same corporal, xibduUah, thus appealing to his stomach, which 
is the direct road to the heart, in African courtship. The 
younger girls and the boys of the establishment exclaimed, 
" Mashaliah ! Old Karka \ who would have believed it 1 " 

It was curious to observe the difference between my station 
and that of head-quarters at Gondokoro : at one^ all was 
contentment ond good order; i]i the other, discontent and 
disorder. 

I had coiistant complaints from Mr. Higginbotham that my 
orders, that he should be supplied with men for public works, 
were disobeyed, and that every obstacle was thrown in his way. 

My Englishmen had been, as usual, A'^ery industrious, and 
having erected the iron magazines, they were now engaged in 
building a flat-bottomed barge to assist in transporting corn 
from tlie islands south of Regiaf. They had not been in the 
best health, but they nevertheless continued to vrork with an 
energy and spirit that Avere a deliglitful contrast to the sluggish- 
ness and apathy of the Egyptians. 

Immediately on my return from Belinian, I had given orders 
that thirty vessels should be prepared to return to Khartoum. 

I had not returned these vessels earlier, as I required all the 
sailors to assist in building the station, and in collecting corn 
for the troops. At this season (October) the ISTile was at its 
maximum_, therefore I hoped there would be no difficulty in the 
return voyage to Khartoum with empty vessels, and the stream 
in their favour. Had I returned them earlier, I should have 
been obliged to victual them for a four months' voyage, at a 
time when corn was extremely scarce. The sailors had now 
assisted us in our work, and they would not require provisions 
for more than two months, as the ]S"ilc was full. 

Every arrangement that I had made had been most carefully 
considerc(L There can bo no doubt that the greatest enemy to 
the expedition was the AVhitc jS"ilc. This adverse river had 
given a serious check. The work and fatigue in cutting through 
the obstructions had killed many men, and had laid the seeds of 



OHAP. XI.] OUTBREAK OF HORSE-SICKNESS/ 175 

fatal complaints among many others. The men's hearts had 
been broken at the onsL't. There Avas even now a feeling of 
despair of the possibility of receiving supplies and reinforce- 
ments by river from Khartoum. We appeared to have forsaken 
the known Avorld, and, having passed the river Styx, to have 
become secluded for ever in a wild land of our own, where all 
were enemies, like evil spirits, and where it was necessary either 
to procure food at the point of the bayonet, or to lie down and 
die. 

If tlie White Xile had been the fme, navigable river that I had 
known in former years, I believe I should have liad no difficulty, 
as I could have quickly overcome the scruples of my officers by 
direct reports of their conduct to the Khedive ; but we were lost 
to the world almost as absolutely as though quartered in the 
moon. 

I had proposed, when in Cairo, that steamers should run 
monthly between Khartoum and Gondokoro, with the post and 
all necessary supplies. • In former days this would have been a 
matter of course, and the fact of a connection Avith the Soudan 
government would have supported discipline ; but the frightful 
obstructions of the river rendered communication impossible, 
except by a regular expedition in large force. 

My own heart felt heavy sometimes ; but I said nothing. I 
could easily appreciate the feelings of others, whose hearts were 
not actually in favour of the enterprise. 

N'cvertheless I commanded, and no matter v/hat the obstacles 
might be, I had only one duty. 

A new and sad calamity had attacked us. The well-known 
African horse-sickness broke out. In spite of every precaution, 
my horses died. The disease commenced by an appearance of 
languor, rapid action of the heart, scantiness of urine, costive- 
ness, swelling of the forehead above the eyes, which extended 
rapidly to the whole head ; stiffness and swelling of the neck, 
eyes prominent and bloodshot, running at the nose of foul 
greenish matter in extraordinary quantities, — convulsions, death. 

My favourite horse, " The Pig," was attacked. I had anxiously 
watched him daily, and one morning I fancied that the usual 
hollow above the eyes was rather full. This fatal symptom was 
too true a warning. He passed through the usual stages of the 
complaint, and died on the same day that he was first attacked. 

I had only seven horses remaining out of twenty-one that had 
started with me from Cairo. In addition to these, were two 
horses belonging to the officers. 

! 



176 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. SI. 



The fact of the horses dying added to the unfavourable 
impression abeady in the minds of the officers and troops. In 
addition to this cpJamity, the drought at Gondokoro had been 
unprecedented. Tlie native cultivation, and that of the troops, 
had all perished on tlie light sandy soil of Gondokoro. Rain 
had fallen in the vicinity ; but this unfortunate locality is very 
subject to droughts, as the rain-clouds are attracted by neighbour- 
ing mountains, where they expend themselves. The rich soil of 
the river islands v^ill ahvvays insure a crop, as the roots penetrate 
to a depth Avhere they obtain moisture from the river. As 
already described^ the troops had worked so badl}'-, that one half 
of the island crop had been carried away by birds. Thus, when 
the harvest was in their hands, they neglected to gather it ; they 
now complained that nothing would succeed in Gondokoro. 

Abou Saood had not gone to Khartoum, therefore his journey 
to Belinian to request my permission to depart, was only a ruse 
for some purpose at present unknown. 

I shall novi extract verbatim from my journal the entry upon 
October 13, 1871 :— 

" OdoTjer 13, Friday. — The truth has burst out at last. As I 
have long expected, the evil spirit has brooded mischief." 

Late last night I received a letter from Eaouf Eey inclosing 
two others : one from the regimental officers, addressed to their 
respective lieutenant-colonels ; the other from the lieuteiiant- 
colonels, inclosing the letters, and seconding the declaration Avith 
a petition einbodjdng the same request to the full colonel. The 
letter from Eaouf Bey supported the petitions and seconded the 
general complaint. The burden of this lengthy and carefully- 
arranged correspondence, was the determination of the officers 
and troops to abandon the expedition and return to Khartoum. 
The seals of every officer were attached, with the exception of 
those belonging to the "Forty Thieves." 

I noticed that although there were three separate letters upon 
several immense sheets of paper, they were all written in the 
same handwriting. This proved that they were the result of 
dictation from a superior, and I at once traced the conspiracy to 
the colonel, Eaouf Bey, the friend of Abou Saood. 

It had been pre-arranged in this fashion, without a hint of 
such an intention having been given to nie, that the officers 
should sign a round-robin to their lieutenant-colonels ; the latter 
should support and forward the petition, together with a letter 
from themselves ; the colonel should then forward this general 
and irresistible expression of public opinion to me, together with 



OHAP, XI.] CONSPIRACY OF THE OFFICERS. 



177 



a long epistle from himself, explaining the absolute necessity of 
a general abandonment of the expedition, and a return to 
Kliartoum. 

I find those words in my journal : — These letters from the 
officers declare, that the expedition must return to Khartoum, as 
there is no corn in the country, and the soldiers would die of 
starvation. 

"Although these people complain of Avant, they actually 
purchased 128 slaves during the journey from Tewfikeeyah, thus 
adding to the number of mouths, and at the same time acting 
against my positive orders. 

" They say there is no corn in the country, but as yet they 
know nothing of the neighbourhood, with the exception of 
Belinian ; and when in the midst of plenty they ivill not 
collect it. Thus the Khedive's officers would actually abandon 
the expedition, and forsake the immense amount of stores, 
merchandise, &c., which would fall into the hands of the 
natives. 

" By God, not a man shall go back, except by my orders ! no 
matter whether they mutmy or not. I shall forward the officers' 
letters to the Khedive." 

This conspiracy would have played the game of Abou Saood, 
and he would have revelled in his success. I made no remarks 
upon the conduct of Eaouf Bey, but the chain of facts will speak 
for themselves. 

For the first half-hour after the receipt of these letters, I was 
disgusted through every bone. It appeared as though all hope 
of success was gone. What could be done with such wretched 
and treacherous material 1 

I would not condescend a reply to the letters I had received. 
I rode up to head-quarters ; Mr. Higginbotham was ill, as were 
also som.e of the Englishmen and Mr. Marcopolo. JSTevertheless 
all were unanimous in their resolve to stand by the expedition 
at any lisk. 

I sent Lieutenant Baker, E.I^., to Raouf Bey, with instructions 
j not to mention the letters, but to convey the following order : — • 
" Colonel Raouf Bey, with six companies of troops, to bo under 
arms at 2 a.m., to await me at head-quarters." 

Mr. Higginbotham had the entire charge of the vessels. I 
ordered three noggurs to be prepared, together with one small 
diahbeeah, to pass the troops across the river at 2 a.m. 

All troops and sailors were to take two days' provisions. I 
had determined to push straight for the Bari islands, south of 

N 



178 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



Regif liill. Should I be able to procure tlie supply of com 
that I expected, it ^YOuld at once checkmate the conspiracy. 

The Earis of Regi-if and south of that hill had been allied 
with those of Belinian, and had taken charge of their great 
herds during the month's campaign in that country. 

^Ye started punctually at the time apjjointed, and sailed for 
about seven miles up the river, which at this season could bo 
navigated without difficulty. We now crossed over to the west 
bank, and the Avind being foul, the soldiers turned out and 
hauled the vessels against the stream by tow-ropes. 

The country was perfectly lovely. The high, rocky hills, a 
few miles distant, sloped in beautiful undulations of open, park- 
like land to the river's bank. Here and there fine ornamental 
trees were dotted about the surface ; but the absence of forest 
would have rendered the locality unfit for a large station. 

The villages vv'ere innumerable : but there was not a sign of 
friendsliip among the numerous population. The natives poured 
out of their various stations leaping, brandishing their spears, 
and gesticidating Avith unmistakable actions of hostility. 

The river was about 500 yards wide, and in several places 
the dull, grey heads of rocks protruded from the surface. Wq 
therefore continued to tow the vessels close to the bank, with a 
party marching parallel to protect the flank in case of a sudden 
attack. 

The natives evidently intended to oppose us. I always gave 
the Baris a fair chance, and allowed tlieui to make the first 
hostile move before I proceeded to forcible measures. I there- 
fore landed and advanced a few hundred paces inland. Tiierc 
were many curious rocks in this neighbourhood, some of which 
were clean blocks of granite in masses of forty or fifty feet high, 
piled roughly as though arranged artificially. 

The natives, as we advanced, moved gradually towards this 
shelter, in which they squatted until wo arrived within a hun- 
dred and twenty paces. My interpreter now conversed witli 
them, saying that I had not come to fight, but to purchase corn, 
that I would give them a cow for each googoo fidl of unthrashcd 
dhurra : this was the usual price when the natives traded among 
themselves. 

In reply to this polite assurance, they used most insulting 
language, and said — " You need not offer us your cattle, as wo 
intend to take them liy force ; therefore, be ofi' to Khartoum ! " 

By this time I had advanced with the interpreter to within a 
hundred yards of them. They were complctcl v in my power, but 



OHAP. XI.] EXPEDITION TO OBTAIN CORN. 



170 



I resisted the temptation. This is the disadvantage in treating 
with savages. I always afforded them every opportunity for peace- 
ful arrangements, and returned civil replies to their abusive and 
coarse insults. This gave them the advantage of selecting their 
own convenience for an attack. A huMred times I have had 
them in my grasp, as upon this occasion, when a w^ell-directed 
volley would have created a terrible effect ; but I have always 
been patient, and allowed them to strike the first blow. 

I now explained to them my position. I gave them the in- 
stance of their friends at Belinian, and begged them to avoid a 
similar necessity. I must have corn. Their granaries were 
overflowing, while mine were empty. I had many thousand 
cattle in addition to all kinds of merchandise. I desired fair 
dealing, which would give satisfaction to all parties. They 
simply sliouted a derisive reply, coupled with most disgusting 
and insulting language. 

" Won't you have a shot, sir, at that fellow on the rock ? " 
said my shadow, Monsoor, who was always at my elbow. I 
declined the invitation, to the great disappointment of my 
men ; at the same time I explained to these pig-headed Baris 
that they must accept the consequences of their conduct. 

I ordered the bugler to sound the assembly. 

With great readiness the troops left the vessels, and having 
formed, they marched up the slope with drums and bugles. I 
now made a display of force, and once more addressed the 
natives, explaining that the men were hungry and would ^take 
theii' corn gratis unless they would agree to sell a portion. 

The natives sullenly Avithdrew to a greater distance, and 
commenced blowing their whistles, and making a peculiar shrill 
cry which is used by them generally in derision and contempt 
of an enemy. The last words we distinguished as they increased 
their distance, were a threat to exterminate us during the night, 
if we dared to remain in their country. 

It appeared hopeless to attempt a peaceful communication 
with the Baris. This portion of the country to the south of 
Eegiaf was immensely populous, and the natives were more 
dreaded by the slave-traders than any other. I now determined 
to examine some of the villages. 

Having extended the men in line so as to cover about half a 
mile, I ordered the advance towards the hill of Eegiaf, with 
strict orders that no soldier was to enter a hut ; but they were 
simply to examine the villages as they passed through, by tap- 
ping the numerous wicker googoos or granaries with their hands, 

N 2 



180 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XI. 



to prove "wliether they were fuJl. These neat little granaries 
contained generally about forty bushels, but they varied in size : 
some would have held more than double that quantity. 

The natives watched us in considerable numbers from all 
points. In this manner we examined tv/enty or thirty villages, 
each of which contained at least fifteen googoos, nearly all of 
v/hich were quite full of corn. The entire country was over- 
flowing with dhurra and sesame. As far as the eye could 
reach were innumerable villages, all of which we knew were 
stores of abundance, by the samples we had already examined. 

From the high land of Regiaf, we looked down upon a long 
series of rich islands in the ri^'er, that appeared to be nothing 
but a line of granaries, as I could distinguish with the telescope 
the numerous clumps of googoos and small villages that fringed 
the fertile banks of these v\^elcome retreats. 

I felt as the Israelites, Avhen the manna and the quails ap- 
peared in the desert. Thank God, we were delivered from the 
danger of famine, and w^e had at length arrived at the Promised 
Land. 

Even the officers, all of v,^hom had signed the declaration 
^' that there was no corn in the country, therefore they 
must return to Khartoum," looked delighted, and exclaimed 
" Mashallah ! " 

I felt the relief, for I had suffered much anxiety ; but out- 
wardl}^ I took it very coolly, and quite as a matter of course. 
I explained to the officers and men, that of course they ^^ere 
ignorant of the country, but that if they relied upon me, I 
should always lead them (" Inshallah ! ") into a land of plenty. 
The black officers now began to exclaim, " Wah-Illai! the Pacha 
knows the country well ! AVho would have believed when at 
Gondokoro that there was corn enough for a couple of years 
within a day's march " 

*' A couple of years ! " cried another ; " we couldn't cat this 
corn in ten years ! " 

"We might drinlc merissa every day in this country," ex- 
claimed others of the sokliers. 

Sailors who have been in danger of ship\\Teck, with a rocky 
shore close on the lea in a heavy gale, may understand the relief 
offered by a sudden shift of wind in the moment of extremity. 
Such experience alone can allow an appreciation of the mental 
reaction after a great strain of anxiety that I had suffered for 
some time past. 

A certain knowledge of human nature determined me to 



OHAP. XL] ABUNDANOS OF CORN FOUND. 



181 



improve, without a moment's delay, the opportunity, while the 
troops were under the first impulse of astonishment and delight. 

I addressed myself to the " Forty Thieves " in particular, and 
to the line generally, and explained " the pleasure that I felt in 
now being able to increase their rations of corn, that had been 
reduced by half. At the same time I had been much dissatisfied 
with the small collection they had made from the harvest at 
Belinian. I knew the country, and this was the only true 
granary that admitted of river transport to Gondokoro. If they 
neglected this opportunity^, the rations would again be reduced ; 
but upon no account whatever should I permit the return to 
Khartoum of any officers or men, except those who could present 
a medical certificate of chronic bad health. I should thus get 
rid of the useless mouths, Avhicli would relieve the strong men 
from the work of gathering corn to feed the v/eak, who could 
not perform their share of the labour." 

I concluded by recommending them to thank God, and to 
set to work with good will." 

I marched my men to several villages deserted by their in- 
habitants, which I occupied in force, and anchored the vessels 
close to the bank beneath them. Having sent for Eaouf Bey, I 
made no other remark, than to give the orders necessary for the 
night. This melancholy officer looked more miserable than 
usual, and his expression reminded me of one of Dante's 
damned souls, as illustrated by Gustavo Dore. 

The sun sank, and I had not tasted food for twenty-four hours. 
I was without my Avife, therefore I was not very particular • my 
good Monsoor having foraged, produced some pumpkin soup, as 
he termed it, which was composed of a very watery pumpkin 
boiled in water without salt. The next dish was the very 
simple native luxury of dhurra flour boiled into a thick porridge. 
I was very hungry and very happy, thus I ate the plain fare 
with a good appetite. 

Monsoor had made a fire with dry cattle-dung, and spread a 
native mat on the ground, close to the smoke, upon v/hich I 
could sleep if the mosquitoes would allow me. I lay as close 
to the smoke as possible, with a comfortable log of wood for a 
pilloAv, and pondered over the events of the day, feeling vory 
thankful for the change of circumstances, and making plans for 
the morrow until I fell asleep. 

JNo sooner had the bugles sounded the morning call, than I 
was up and off. I instructed Eaouf Bey to take a company of 
troops with tho vessels, and occupy the islands. At the same 



182 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



time, I marched through the country to the south, and having 
passed about three hours in exploration, I formed two stations 
in excellent positions, and divided my men equally under Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel Achmet and Major Abdullah. These stations 
were about a mile apart, upon high ground, and commanded a 
view of Raouf Bey's vessels, that were already anchored at the 
island about a mile and a half below them. The three positions 
formed a triangle, in the very heart of the greatest abundance. 

Having concluded these arrangements and established my 
positions, with the necessary instructions to the officers in com- 
mand, I returned to the river, and prepared to start for Gon- 
dokoro in the little dingy. I did not ^^dsh to take a large 
vessel, therefore I ordered Eaouf Eey to fill the noggurs with 
corn as rapidly as possible, and to start them off when full to 
Gondokoro. The granaries on the islands were all full, and 
close to the banks ; therefore the vessels lay alongside, as 
though in a dock, and coidd load with great ease. 

I started in the dingy with two boatmen to rov/, accompanied 
by Monsoor and two soldiers of " The Forty." 

The stream ran at three miles and a half pev hour : thus, 
with good pulling, we reached head-quarters in one hour and 
thirty-two minutes, a distance of about ten miles and a half. 

I believe it is common to human nature to love to carry good 
news. The sight of the little dingy approaching Gondokoro 
alone, had given rise to all kinds of surmises, and when I 
reached the shore, a crowd of officers, soldiers, sailors, and 
women were standing in expectation upon the cliff. My men 
immediately recounted all particulars. 

Great was the joy of the English party at the news of our 
success. This flew through the station, and the Egyptian 
officers and soldiers slunk away ; whereas, the black wuves of 
the Soudani regiment were delighted, as they did not wish to 
go to Khartoum. These women were slaves that I had liber- 
ated, and they always imagined that if they should arrive at 
Ivhartoum, they vrould be sold. This home influence was of 
service to me. In conversation with my " Eorty Thieves " I 
had suggested, that perhaps on their arrival at Khartoum, the 
government might not permit them to retain so many wives 
in the regiment. The Soudanis are always happy if they have 
a wife and plenty to eat and drink ; therefore Central Africa 
was preferable to their taste, where they could enjoy domestic 
bliss Avith a young wife, instead of sitting in the sultry barracks 
of Khartoum as melancholy bachelors. 



CHAP. XL] TAKE POSSESSION OF THREE ISLANDS. 183 

I now determined to devote myself specially to the work of 
collecting corn. I therefore placed all my luggage in the 
magazine, cleared out the diabeeah, and towed her up stream from 
my little station to head-quarters, ready to start on the following 

On 17th October I started at 6 a.m., and reached the island 
at 4 P.M. There I found Raouf Boy, and the vessels that I had 
left in his charge. He had only occupied one island, and 
the natives were hard at work carrying oil their corn from 
the islands to the south. I immediately sent troops to take 
possession. 

On 1 8tli October I sent Raouf Bey to Gondokoro, with orders 
to despatch to Khartoum all the really sick and incapable, but 
upon no account to permit any man to return unless he was 
hopelessly invalided. 

On 19th October, having noticed that the stream brought 
down numerous stems of dhurra, I concluded that cultivated 
islands existed further up the river. I therefore instructed 
Lieutenant Baker to sail up and explore ; at the same time he 
Avas to take possession should such islands be discovered. 

On 2l8~j the dingy returned with a letter from Lieutenant 
Baker, v/ho had, with only ten men of The Forty," driven out 
the enemy, and occupied an island, rich in corn, further south. 
The dingy had been attacked on her way by the Baris, who had 
shot arrows, all of which had fallen short. I immediately 
started with my diahbeeah and reinforcements, and united with 
Lieutenant Baker. I had now three large islands in possession. 
The fertility of the soil was extraordinary. The cultivation was 
confined to the rim or sides of the islands, as the centre was 
swampy in the wet season, but the extreme richness of the soil 
produced the heaviest crops, and the granaries were full through- 
out the very numerous little villages, that were stationed around 
the islands. 

Having worked for twelve days, during v/hicli time numerous 
vessels had enlivened the river by passing to and fro heavily 
laden with corn, between our granaries and Gondokoro, I received 
notice from the mainland that the v/ork of the two stations under 
Lieutenant-Colonel Achmet and Major Abdullah was concluded. 
Aclimet had thrashed out all his corn, and was waiting for boats 
to convey it ; and Abdullah had shipped all that he had collected, « 
and was waiting for orders. 

I sent instructions, that Abdullah should march his detach- 
ment along the mainland, towards the south, and occupy the 



184 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



villages on tlie high, land, exactly opposite my vessels. The 
country was beautifully open, like a line park, in long, rolling 
undulations, wliich terminated in rocky hills, about four or five 
miles from the river. 

On 24th October, having loaded a line of vessels that lay 
alongside the island as snugly as though by an artificial quay, I 
¦svas amusing myself, together Vv^ith Lieutenant Baker, in shooting 
ducks, which sv/armed in the neighbouring ponds and swamps. 
At about 4.30 p.m. I heard rapid file-firing in the distance, and 
I concluded that jNIajor Abdullah's detachment, that was hourly 
expected, was attacked by the natives. I at once returned to the 
diahbeeah, where my wife was stationed on the high poop-deck, 
having a good view of a very 23retty little engagement. 

The troops were about a mile distant, and while steadily on 
the march according to my instructions, they were suddenly 
attacked by the natives in great force; This was a fair stand-up 
fight in the open. The big drums and horns were sounding 
throughout the country, and the natives were pouring from all 
dhections to the battle. 

The white uniforms of the soldiers formed a strong contrast 
to the black figures of the naked Baris ; thus we could see the 
affair distinctly. We could also hear the orders given by bugle. 

Major Abdullah had prudently secured his rear by the 
occupation of one of the small villages, fortified by a hedge of 
impenetrable euphorbia. He then threw out skirmishers in line, 
supported by the force that held the village. The natives were 
yelling in all directions, and I never before saw them make such 
a good fight upon the open ground. They not only outflanked, 
but entirely surrounded Abdullah's detachment of ninety men. 
The troops were keeping up a heavy fire, which did not appear 
to produce any decided result, as the natives thronged to the 
fight and advanced close up to the fire of the soldiers, whom 
they attacked with bows and arrows. 

I ordered our solitary field-piece to be dismounted, and placed 
in the large rowing-boat, together with a rocl^et-trough, and the 
requisite ammunition, in readiness to suj^port Abdullah with a 
Hank attack upon the natives, by crossing the river, should it be 
necessary. As our vessels were in close view, I waited for the 
signal by bugle should Abdullah require assistance. 

I had only twenty-t:vo men of the " Forty Thieves " with me, 
together with the eight artillerymen belonging to the gun. The 
remainder of " The Forty " were holding the second island, 
about four miles in our rear. 



cuAP. XL] REPULSE OF ENEMY BY MAJOR ABDULLAH. 185 



Just l)crore dark, I noticed' that the Baris were giving way : 
they had evidently suffered some loss, v/hich caused a sudden 
retreat. I heard the bugle sound " the advance/' and we could 
see the troops advancing and firing in pursuit. The Baris ceased 
blowing their horns, and collected in dense bodies at a great 
distance from the troops, who had halted and now held the 
1 position. 

Only occasional shots were now fired, and the sun having set, 
darkness gradually dissolved the view. 

I fully expected that the Baris would renew the attack during 
the night, but I knew that Abdullah was safe in his strong 
position within a village, surrounded by the high and dense 
hedge of euphorbia ; the thick, fleshy brandies of this tree are 
the best protection against arrows. I ordered the boat with the 
gun to remain in readiness, so as to start at a moment's notice 
should we hear firing renewed during the night. I should then 
be able to land the gun, and take them unexpectedly on the 
flank with case shot. 

Morning broke without any night alarm. I had filled the 
vessels 'with the last of the corn upon the island, therefore I 
determined to cross over with my force, and to meet the detach- 
ment under Major Abdullah. This was not easy to accomplish, 
as there v^^ere some awkward sand-banks in the middle of the 
river. It was therefore necessary to pass up stream between 
two islands, and then, by rounding the head of a point, to 
descend through a channel about a hundred yards wide between 
the western island and. the mainland. This occupied about an 
hour, and we dropped down the channel and took up an excellent 
position against a high shore that formed a convenient landing- 
place. Erom this point the land rose rapidly, and the entire 
landscape was covered with villages abounding in corn. The 
natives appeared to have deserted the country. 

Having given the necessary orders, I took my shot gun, and, 
accompanied by Lieutenant Baker, Monsoor, and two soldiers of 
i: '^The Forty," I walked along the river's bank towards the village 
occupied by Major Abdullah's detachment^ who I imagined 
might have found a large quantity of corn, which accounted for 
their delay in commencing the morning march. 

There were great numbers of ducks and geese on the river's 
bank : thus as we walked towards Abdullah's village, about a 
mile and a half distant, we made a tolerable bag. 

We had at length arrived within half a mile of the village, 
which was situated upon high groimd, about 600 yards from the 



18G 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap, xr. 



river, wlieu I noticed a niunber of people issuing from tlie gate- 
^YC^J carrying large baskets upon their heads. 

" The soldiers have found plenty of corn/' remarked Monsoor ; 
" they are carrying it from the googoos." 

My eyes were better than Monsoor's. I at once perceived 
that the people tluis employed were Baris ! 

We were only five guns, now separated from our vessels by 
about a mile, and the troops under Major Abdullah had evidently 
evacuated their position ! 

Where upon earth had they gonel and for what reason'? 
Certainly we had the river on our right flank, but vre might 
have been attacked and cut off from our vessels, had the Baris 
the pluck to assume the offensive. 

It was time to retreat, but as I wished the Baris to believe 
that we felt quite at our ease, we accomplished the move very 
leisurely, and strolled quietly homewards, shooting ducks and 
snipe as we walked along. 

The moment I arrived at the vessels, I despatched a party in 
the steamer's large boat, under Captain Mohammed Deii, of the 
" Forty Thieves," to row down the river, and to recall Abdullah's 
detachment, that must have retreated for some inconceivable 
reason. The current ran at nearly four miles per hour ; thus the 
boat would be sure to overtake them. 

I was exceedingly annoyed. A force of ninety men had 
evidently been cowed by their engagement with the natives on 
the previous evening, and had retreated upon Lieutenant-Colonel 
Achmet's position, instead of joining me according to orders. 
At the same time my vessels had been in sight only a mile and 
a half distant ! I was thus left with a small party of thirty 
men, while ninety men had fallen back. 

This was an example of the utter helplessness of the officers 
and men Avhen left to themselves. If the natives had repeated 
the attack, they would most probably liave got into dire confusion. 

Having started the boat, I took ten men of The Eorty," and, 
accompanied by Lieutenant Baker, I marched along the bank 
in order to meet the detachment on their return, when recalled 
by Mohammed Deii. During the march I continued to shoot 
dujsks, as this amusement would deceive the natives respecting 
the retreat of Major Abdullah, which might then be attributed 
to some other cause than fear. 

In about an hour, I distinguished a sail coming round the 
point of Gebel (Mount) Eegiaf. The wind was fair, and sho 
quickly ran up the stream. I now discovered that she was 



CHAP. XI,] 



RETREAT OP MAJOR ABDULLAH. 



137 



towing tlio boat that I had sent down the ri^cr to recall 
Abdullah's detachment.^ 

Upon her near approach, I hailed the vessel and ordered her 
to land the troops (with which she was crowded) upon the west 
shore. 

In a short time, Major Abdullah and his gallant company had 
landed and formed in line. 

His excuse for the precipitate retreat which he liad com- 
menced at daybreak was, that he feared a renewed attack, and 
he was sliort of ammunition. He had therefore determined to 
fall back on the station occupied by Lieutenant-Colonel Achmet. 

He appeared to have forgotten that he could have communi- 
cated v/ith me by bugle. 

I inspected the men's pouches, and found that most of them 
had eighteen or twenty rounds of cartridge, vfhile the minimum 
contained eleven rounds ; this is what the major considered a 
short supply of ammunition for a march of a mile and a half 
along beautiful open country to my vessels. 

He described the overwhelming number of the natives, and 
their extreme bravery in the attack, which his troops had re- 
pelled without any loss to themselves either killed or wounded. 
At the same time the troops under his command had killed 
twenty Baris, Avhose bodies he had himself counted. 

I now ordered them to advance to the village, as I wished to 
examine the position. Upon arrival at the spot where the battle 
had taken place, there were a number of vultures settled in 
various spots where the ground was marked with blood, and the 
cleanly-picked skeleton of a man, lying close to the euphorbia 
hedge, showed that the Baris had really come to close quarters. ^ 

The natives had carried off their dead, with the exception of 
the body that had been cleaned by the vultures ; this must have 
been a stranger wlio had no friends, as the Baris are very 
particular in the interment of tlieir people. 

I now marched my men along the high ground towards the 
south, and examined the numerous habitations, until I arrived at 
a little colony comprising six villages, all of which were full of 
corn. Here I left Major Abdullah and his detachment, with 

^ This was a vessel from Grondokoro, on her way for a cargo of corn. She 
had met the retreating party of Abdullah, and had brought them on by the 
river. 

, 2 The officer declared that twenty of the enemy were slain, while the 
I soldiers admitted that only five were kUled. There was always a gross 
I exaggeration in the reports. 



188 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



orders to collect all the dhiirra from the neighbouring villages, 
and to form a central depot at his present station, after whicli, 
the corn could be thrashed out and carried to the vessels. I 
stationed a noggur by the bank exactly opposite his position, 
about half a mile distant. 

The natives had abandoned the neighbourhood : and hundreds 
of villages remained without an inhabitant. 

On 3rd Xoveraber, I sent off vessels heavily laden with corn 
to Gondokoro, under the command of Lieutenant Baker, with 
instructions that the detachment under Lieutenant -Colonel 
Achmet should join me as soon as possible, and that empty vessels 
should at once be sent to my corn depot. 

On 4th oS'ovember, I sent fifteen of the " Forty Thieves " to 
the south, where I had discovered large quantities of corn in the 
villages that had been until now undisturbed. To arrive at these 
villages, it was necessary to pass over very high ground, which 
obscured them from our view vrhen on the diahbeeah. 

i\Iy men had built themselves liuts, and had formed a nice 
little camp, on the hard, stony bank, close to the spot where my 
diahbeeah and other vessels lay alongside. My horses Vv'-ere 
picketed in the centre, and we had transported and erected a great 
number of granaries, whicli I had filled with cleanly-thrashed 
corn, to await the arrival of the return vessels from Gondokoro. 

I was superintending the arrangements of the camp, when my 
attention was attracted by exceedingly steady firing in single 
shots at a distance, in the direction taken by my small party of 
" The Forty." Xothiug could be seen, owing to the high groimd 
on the south. 

I immediately ordered my horse, and accompanied by Monsoor 
and three soldiers of " The Forty " I rode at a trot towards the 
direction of the firing. I had left a small guard with the boats, 
as nearly all the men were absent in the interior collecting the 
dhurra. 

After riding for about a mile and a half over high ground 
covered with fine turf, from the summit of which I had a 
l)cautiful view of the undulating country before me, with the 
WJiite J^ile flowing through the valley, and high mountains in 
the distance, I came suddenly upon a village, where I observed 
two of my " Forty " mounted as sentries upon the summits of the 
tallest huts. A little in advance of this position, I found the 
remainder of my party. It appeared that they had been suddenly 
attacked, but the sentries on the house-tops had given timely 
warning. 



CHAP. XI.] 



A GENERAL ATTACK. 



189 



There could not have been a more suitable country for rifle- 
practice, as it was completely open and almost devoid of trees. 
The fine, swelling undulations were intersected with deep rocky 
ravines at right angles to the river, which after heavy rains 
brought down the torrents from the mountains. 

My arrival on the summit, on a white horse, attended only by 
Monsoor and three soldiers, was a signal for a great blowing of 
horns and beating of drums. Immense numbers of natives were 
to be seen in all parts of the viev/ before us. They ran eagerly 
from their villages, and collected from every quarter, evidently 
bent upon a fight with my little party. 

I ordered my men to cease firing, as they were Avasting their 
ammunition uselessly, and destroying the prestige of the rifles 
by missing at long ranges. 

I ordered a general advance in open order, about four yards 
apart; thus twenty men covered a line of about seventy-six 
paces. This front, Avith the men in scarlet uniform, made a 
tolerable show. I rode at the head on a very beautiful Arab, 
" Greedy Grey," Avhicli Avas the most perfect of all the horses I 
had brought from Egypt : excelling in breed, speed, beauty, and 
temper. 

My little company marched forAvard in quick time. This AA^as 
a signal for a chorus of yells upon all sides ; the big drums 
sounded louder than before, and the horns of the Baris beliowod 
in eA^ery direction. 

Great numbers of natives noAV advanced Avith their bows and 
arroAA^s, gesticulating and leaping from side to side in their usual 
manner, so as to prevent the possibility of a steady aim. 

As yet, they Avcre about 600 yards distant, and I continued 
the march forward as though no enemy were present. As avo 
descended a ravine and marched up the opposite incline, I found 
that the natives retired over the next undulation. Their line of 
front extended about a mile and a quarter, while Ave occupied at 
the most eighty paces. 

Having marclied about a mile Avithout firing a shot, and 
finding that the natives invariably fell back as we advanced, at 
the same Lime that they kept the same interval betAveen us, I at 
once understood their tactics. It Avas now five o'clock ; the sun 
Avould set Avitliin an hour, and their intention Avas to draw us 
forAvard until darkness Avould reduce the power of the rifles. 
They Avould then bo able to surround us, and very possibly over- 
poAver our little force during our retreat to the vessels in the 
dark. 



190 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XI. 



I halted my men, and explained to them the Baris' dodge. ¦ I 
now ordered the retreat after this manner : v/e should liurry 
down-hill and march quickly up the next undulation, so as to 
deceive the enemy with the idea of a precipitate retreat. This 
would induce an advance on their side. The Baris would he 
certain to follow us at full speed if they supposed we were 
afraid of them. 

It was my intention to cross rapidly the first undulation 
where my men would for a few minutes be out of view of tlie 
enemy, and there to conceal them in a deserted village which I 
had noticed during our advance. This would be an ambush 
that would take the Baris by surprise, as they would imagine 
that we had passed ahead : they would therefore come near the 
village. 

The order to the "right about" was given, and my men, who 
took a keen interest in the plan, commenced so precipitate a 
march down the hill that my horse was forced into a jog-trot. I 
heard the savage yells of the enemy, who, as I had expected, 
novr followed us with the hope of cutting off our retreat to the 
vessels. 

We crossed the dry rocky bed of the torrent in the bottom, 
and ascended the hill-face rapidly. Looking back, I saw the 
natives running at full speed in pursuit. They began to descend 
the hill just as we had crossed the summit of the high groimd ; 
thus they lost sight of us, as we C|uickly concealed ourselves 
behind the huts and granaries of a deserted village. I hid my 
horse behuid a hut, and the men, having surrounded the posi- 
tion, crouched low on the ground behind the most convenient 
cover. 

Unfortunately, the natives, who were on the high ground on 
our right flank as we faced about, perceived the snare, and 
endeavoured to give the alarm by blowmg upon their whistles of 
antelope's horn. 

This was either misunderstood, or unheeded by the enemy in 
our rear, who quickly made their appearance. 

I had ordered my men to reserve their fire, and not to expend 
any ammunition until the command should be given. The 
natives on our right flank now j^assed forward, which would 
bring them in our rear. At the same time, those in our front 
appeared in very loose and open order, evidently looking for us 
in all directions. 

I observed a man painted red, like a stick of sealing-wax, 
with large ivory bracelets upon his arms. This fellow was in 



CHAP. XI.] 



THE SNIDER RIFLES. 



191 



advance, and ho ascended a small ant-hill to obtain a better 
view. 

A puff of smoke and the sharp crack of a rifle startled the 
enemy, as the red sheik rolled over. The yells increased on all 
sides, the whistles of the antelopes' horns now sounded a shrill 
alarm, during which the leading Baris shot off their arrows, but 
they fell short. 

Another quick shot cracked upon the body of a native, who 
was caught in the arms of his comrades and dragged away as 
they precipitately retreated in all directions from the dangerous 
locality. 

My men now begged me to allow them to charge and to 
capture the man, who was endeavouring to escape. I gave them 
leave, and a body of fifteen dashed out in pursuit, with loud 
yells, after the retreating natives. For about a minute the 
natives faced them and shot their arrows, but the gallant fifteen 
coolly knelt upon the clear ground, and taking steady rests upon 
their knees, opened a fire that drove the enemy before them. 
The fifteen immediately charged forward and bayoneted a 
fugitive, and returned with his bow and arrows in triumph. 

The enemy had quickly the worst of it. They were now 
standing in all directions at distances varying from 400 to 1,000 
paces. Many of them were actually in our rear, but I noticed 
that these fellows were already opening to the right and left, as 
though they faltered in their determination to resist our retreat 
to the vessels. 

The Baris would not stand in the open ground before the 
snider s. 

The ground was dry and dusty, thus each bullet marked its 
hit as the puff of dust rose from the earth, like a jet of smoke. 

Some of the enemy were knocked over at very long ranges ; 
others were so scared by the close practice, as the bullets cither 
struck the ground at their feet, or pinged close to their ears, that 
they cleared off as quickly as possible. Their noisy drums had 
ceased, and suddenly I perceived a general skedaddle, as those 
upon OUT right flank started off in full speed, shouting and 
yelling to alarm the rest. I now distinguished a body of troops 
hurrying at the double down the hill-side in the distance. Those 
were commanded by an active Soudani officer (lieutenant) who 
had been in Mexico under Marshal Bazaine. He had heard the 
firing as he v/as returning with his day's collection of corn to the 
vessels, he had therefore dropped the corn, and hurried on with 
his party to oiu' support. 



192 ISMAILIA. [chap. xii. 

I ordered the bugler to sound the rebreat : and having joined 
forces, we marched without further opposition. 

We reached tlio diahhocah and my little camp about half an 
hour after dark. 



CHAPTEE XII. 

VESSELS RETURN TO KHARTOUM. 

On 6th November, 1871, Lieutenant Baker returned from Gon- 
dokoro with four noggurs, and the entire detachment of Lieuten- 
ant-Colonel Aclimet. The news Avas as follows : — 

After the departure of Major Abdullah, the natives had at- 
tacked the camp of Colonel Achmet, and had wounded him in 
the back with a barbed arrow, which had to be cut out. Another 
arrow had passed through the heart of his servant, killing him on 
the spot. Several soldiers had been wounded, but not seriously. 
The corn had been delivered from his station to the magazines at 
Gondokoro. 

On 3rd JJTovember, thirty vessels had left Gondokoro for 
Khartoum, taking about 1,100 people, including children, womeu, 
sailors, soldiers, and invalids. 

In spite of my positive orders, that none but the really sick 
should be sent to Khartoum, Raouf Bey had in my absence sent 
away great numbers of troops who were in sound health, thus 
reducing the entire force of the expedition to 502 officers and 
men, including buglers, drummers, clerks, &c., exclusive of fifty- 
two sailors. 

Thus an expedition that should have comprised 1,645 men was 
reduced to so insignificant a force, that it appeared impossible to 
proceed into the interior. The Baris were at war with us ; the 
slave-hunters' companies were treacherous ; and yet I was to sup- 
press the slave trade, and annex the equatorial districts with le.-s 
than one-third of the force required. 

Abou Saood had apparently gained his point, and the expedi- 
tion was paralyzed. It was considered that with so small a force 
I could not travel far from head-quarters : thus as luy term of 
service would expire on 1st April 1873, 1 had only one year and 



CHAP. XII.] 



FOllOE REDUCED TO 502 MEN. 



193 



four mo]itlis remaining, and in this short time it would he 
impossible to accomplish my object. 

In the dreadful state of the river we could not speculate upon 
the arrival of reinforcements from Khartoum. Our cuttings and 
canals in the Bahr Giraffe might have closed up ; or they might 
have improved : of this we were ignorant. 

I had pent off my letters to England, also those to the Khedive, 
complaining of the conspiracy of the officers, and inclosing the 
documents. At the same time I had impressed upon his High- 
ness the imperative necessity of opening the channel of the great 
White Nile without delay. ^ 

I had written to Djiaffer Pacha for reinforcements ^ to he sent 
from Khartoum immediately, together vvdth a large supply of 
dhurra. 

I had very little hope of receiving anything from the Soudan. 
It was therefore necessary to make my arrangements for the 
future, independently of all extraneous assistance. With 502 
officers and men, ancl fifty-two armed sailors, I had to accomplish 
the work. 

The force at present with me consisted of 251 officers and 
men ; thus I had exactly half of the troops. Gondokoro was 
well fortified, and the Belinian had been thoroughly cowed, 
therefore I had nothing to fear in that quarter. 

I had more than filled one of the great magazines with corn : 
therefore, including the dhurra now on board several vessels, I 
liad about twelve months' supply for the expedition. 

Although my force was terribly reduced in numbers, the men 
who remained were strong and healthy. I did not despair ; but 
I determined that this reduction of military force should not 
paralyze the activity of the expedition, and that in spite of every 
intrigue, I would succeed in the main objects of the enterprise ; 
the slave trade should be suppressed, and the territory should be 
annexed to the equator. 

1 His Highness lost no time in sendinj^ the necessary orders for the clear- 
ing of the main channel of the White Nile to the governor of the Soudan. 

This energetic officer, Ismail Ayoob Paella^ worked with a large force dur- 
ing two consecutive years and restored the river to its original character- 
completing the work after I had returned to England, but before the arrival 
of my successor. 

Colonel Gordon w\as thus enabled to make use of the six powerful steam- 
ers which I had sent up from Caho to Khartoum, and the expedition con- 
tinued without hindrance. 

2 These reinforcements were thirteen months actually on the river from 
Khartoum to Gondokoro, and they only arrived at the close of the expeditionr 

o 



194 



ISMAILIA. 



[cnAP. XII. 



On lOtli November I took a liundred and fifty men in order 
to make a reconnaissance of the country, at the last cataracts of 
the White Nile, about six miles south of our position. 

"\Ve started early, and marched along the hig-h ground parallel 
with the river, passing the spot where the natives had attacked 
us some days previous. IS'otliing could exceed the beauty of this 
country as an agricultural settlement. Ttie long, sloping undu- 
lations were ornamented with innumerable villages, in all of 
which Avere overflowing granaries. On arrival at the dry bed of 
a broad stream, we ascended a slope, and to my astonishment I 
noticed a considerable body of natives who neither ran away nor 
appeared hostile in their demeanour. Leaving my rifle with 
Monsoor, I rode up within fifty yards of them, apparently un- 
armed, but I had a pair of breech-loading pistols in my holsters. 

My Bari interpreter, Morgian, now explained, that I was only 
on an exploration, and that I had no intention of disturbing 
their property ; I only desired to communicate with their 
sheik. 

For the first time I received a civil answer from the Baris. 
They ex^^lained, that although they were Baris, they had no con- 
nection with the people who had fought us. They were governed 
by a great sheik named Bed den, whose territory was bounded by 
the torrent bed tlmt we had just crossed. They promised that 
he should pay me a visit on the morrow : in the mean time, if we 
required any corn, they ^vould supply us. This was a politeness 
to which I was quite unaccustomed. I therefore thanked them, 
but declined their offer, saying that I wanted nothing from them 
except friendship. 

I now discovered, that these people had never had any com- 
munication Avith the slave-traders, who were afraid to molest so 
powerful a tribe. 

At j)arting, I gave them a vrhite handkerchief as a signal to our 
sentries, when they should arrive. 

We then returned to our station, the troops sharing the satis- 
faction that I felt in having at length discovered friends. 

On the folloAving day at about 3 p.m. the sentry on the hill 
called to the guard, that a very large body of natives was approach- 
ing the station. 

I presumed that these were the followers of Bedden. I there- 
fore ascended the slope and examined them witli the telescope. 

My suspicions were aroused from the extraordinary number of 
people ; at least 700 natives were accompanying their sheik. 

I returned to camp, and made arrangements to receive his visit 



OHAP. XII.] 



ARRIVAL OF SHEIK REDDEN. 



195 



with a guard of honour. I drew up a hundred men parallel with 
the river, about fifty yards from the bank, near the bow of my 
diahbeeali. Fifty men were in line at right angles with the river : 
thus the lines formed two sides of a square. 

In the front T placed the fieldpiece loaded with canister shot. 
I intended to receive Bedden with due honour in the hollow 
square thus protected. In the event of treachery, his force could 
be almost annihilated by one discharge. 

The hill sentry now reported the arrival of a messenger, who 
waved a M'liite handkerchief on the end of a bamboo. This was 
the signal agreed upon, and the messenger was allowed to pass. 
He communicated the fact of Bedden's approach : in a few 
minutes later the great sheik arrived. 

He was ver}^ tall and gaunt ; and without any delay, both he 
and his people were ushered into the hollow square, where they 
all stuck their lances in the ground and sat down. 

I now sent for Bedden and a few of his principal men to the 
poop-deck of my diahbeeah, which, being covered with carpets, 
and arranged with sofas and chairs, was something very astonish- 
ing to the great sheik, who had never seen anything but a vessel 
in the distance. 

I explained the objects of the expedition ; at the same time I 
presented him with a long Egyptian blue shirt that reached to his 
ankles, and made him look more respectal3le. A crimson sash 
round his waist, and a red tarboosh (fez) upon his head, improved 
his appearance wonderfully, and he began to feel at home. 

I presented him with six pounds of beads of various colours, 
together with some strings of harness bells. Brass bugles and a 
large mirror attracted more attention than any other curiosities. 

I gaA^e him him a brass bugle, to his great delight. The use 
of the cannon was then explained to him, and the effects of the 
shell were pardonably exaggerated to ^^I'oduce a respect for the 
vreapon. 

He gave us six pots of merissa and some fowls, promising to 
come again to-morrow. 

All these people believe in sorcery^ and each sheik possesses 
spells and conjurers. Tortoise shells, scales of the manis, lions' 
claws, and those of the leopard, roots, knots of trees of peculiar 
shape, and U-iany otlier things, are worn as talismans. 

My wife's parrot was supposed to be a cojoor, or fetish. This 
was the grey bird of West Africa, that was unknown in these 
parts. Tlie interpreter explained that " it could speak like a 
human being, and that it flew about the country and listened to 

2 



196 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XII. 



what people said — all of which it repeated to its mistress and 
myself; thus we knew everything that occurred, and the natives 
could not deceive us." This parrot was exceedingly tame, and 
was never confined. It was now walking about the deck, and 
while its extraordinary powers were being described by my Bari 
interpreter, Morgian, to the amazement and fear of the natives, 
it advanced stoutly to the sheik Bedden, and would have bitten 
his big toe had he not quickly jumped up and taken leave. 

The magnetic battery and the large musical box were also 
believed to be magic. 

At sunset, the great sheik departed in the best of spirits, with 
all his people, as he had drunk a tumbler of Marsala before he 
started, in order to try the quality of our merissa. 

The population of this country is very large, and the natives 
are good agriculturists. Although the soil is stony, it is very 
productive, as the cultivation is carefully attended to. Dhurra, 
sesame, dochan, and beans, in addition to a species of Hibiscns 
which produces an edible seed and also a fine fibre, are sown in 
exact oblongs or squares resembling the plots in allotment- 
grounds in England. Is'ear the villages are large heaps of manure, 
collected from the cattle zareebas. These are mixed with the 
sweepings of the stations, and the ashes from the cattle-fires, and 
are divided when required among the proprietors of the herds. 

Eacli cow of the zareeba is entitled to a certain measure of 
manure at the commencement of the rains, when all hands turn 
out to cultivate ; thus the owner of many cows is enabled to farm 
a large area. 

The cows are all herded in one or two pens ; thus the whole 
manure is heaped, and, when divided, is measured in large 
baskets. It is then distributed very thickly over the field, and 
is roughly hoed Avith the iron molote, the seed been thrown upon 
the manure broadcast, previous to the hoeing. 

The geological appearance of the country would suggest the 
presence of precious metals. Large masses of rose-coloured and 
icy-white quartz project from the surface in dikes. These run 
for miles in tolerably direct lines, like walls, from west to cast. 
Generally the rocks are granitic, consisting of syenite and gneiss, 
witli micacious schist in the lower valleys. Occasionally, dikes 
of basalt l)reak through the surface, which is generally much 
denuded, and the rocks are weather-worn and decomposed. 

I have frequently washed for gold in the most likely spots 
among the deep holes of ravines, where the torrents have worn 
away the bed, but I have found no sign of either precious stones 



OHAP. XII.] SUDDEN APPEARANCE OP ELEPHANTS. 



197 



or metals. Magnetic iron ore in large quantities is the only 
metal to be discovered in the river-beds. 

On 13th November, at sunrise, Lieutenant Baker started with 
the troops to convey corn from a distant village. I was sitting 
on the poop-deck of the diahbeeah, enjoying a pipe and a cup of 
coffee, when he suddeidy galloped back with the news that a 
herd of bull elephants was approaching from the west. I wai. 
not prepared for elephant-shooting, and I recommended him to 
return to the troops, who would otherwise waste their time. I 
had no suspicion that elephants would approach our position 
after having been disturbed by the soldiers, in a country that 
was perfectly open. 

Lieutenant Baker cantered back to his men, while I commenced 
to write up my daily journal according to my daily custom. 

In about a quarter of an hour, the sentry reported a herd of 
elephants. All my people clambered up upon the googoos and 
huts to obtain a good view of the herd, which from the high 
poop-deck of the diahbeeah we could see distinctly. 

There were eleven bulls, and they were marching in close 
order along the bank of the river, approaching us at about 400 
yards' distance. 

I should have thought it almost as likely to meet a herd of 
elephants in Hyde Park as to find them in this open and thickly- 
populated country. I now distinguished natives along the 
distant heiglits, all of whom were attracted by the uncommon 
occurrence. 

In the mean time the elephants approached, swinging their 
trunks and huge ears to and fro, apparently unconscious of the 
presence of the vessels and people. 

I always kept my guns and ammunition in beautiful order, 
arranged on a rack in the cabin. On the left-hand side were the 
shot guns, i.e., two breechloading ISTo. 12 ; four muzzleloading 
No. 10. On the right, the rifles: the little '-Dutchman," two 
breechloading Eeilly No. 8, two muzzleloading Holland half- 
pounders, that carried an iron lead-coated explosive shell, 
containing a bursting charge of half an ounce of fine grain 
poM'der. These two elephant rifles w^ere very hard hitters, and 
carried twelve drachms of powder. The ammunition for the 
rifles was on a shelf that formed the rack, contained in a small 
bag with a simple re-load, and a large bag with a considerable 
sujDply. The small bag was intended for the deck, should I call 
suddenly for a rifle. 

Seeing that the elephants were so near, I at once ordered my 



198 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XII. 



horse, " Greedy Grey," to be saddled, and the i ifles and ammn- 
nition to be sent after me. My servant, Snleiman, who had 
started with me from Alexandria, was an honest, good creature, 
but so exceedingly nervous that he Avas physically useless in any 
sudden emergency. The climate of the marshes during our loiig 
voyage had so affected his nervous system, that any alarm or 
start would set him trembling to such an extent, that his teeth 
chattered as though he htid been bathing in iced water. However, 
there was no time to lose, as I expected that should the elephants 
observe our vessels, and the troops in their scarlet uniform, thc}^ 
would immediately wheel round and be off, at the jDace which an 
African elephant knows so well how to use. 

I quickly mounted " Greedy Grey" and told Suleiman to send 
on my rifles directly, Avith ammunition. 

I ordered my men to run up the heights, and to come down 
at about 200 paces in the rear of the elepliants, Avhere they were 
to form a line as though in skirmishing order. This line of red 
shirts Avould most probably check the elephants from rushing 
back. My men had orders to fire at the elephants, and to 
endeavour to turn them should they attempt a retreat. 

I Avas now on "Greedy Grey;" the sloping ground wns as 
clean as a race-course, I therefore galloped up the incline so as to 
keep above the elephants. The horse flew along at full speed. 
At this moment, a chorus of shouts from great numbers of natives 
AA'ho had collected on the east bank of the river Avas raised in 
admiration of the AAdiite horse, which they probabl}^ tliought would 
in some manner seize the elephants. 

In a A'cry feAv seconds I reined up on the slope, about a 
hundred yards above the herd, Avhicli had now halted close to the 
river's bank. They regarded the horse Avith some curiosity, and 
massed themselves together. 

In the moan time, my " Forty," Avho Avere capital runners, Avere 
moving rapidly along the heights, and they presently came down, 
and formed in a long, open line from the edge of the riA'er upthe 
slope. During this operation, the elephants only moved their 
cars and trunks, but remained in the same position. They Avere 
noAv completely surrounded ; the diahbeeah and my people Avere 
in their front, I Avas above them on one flank, and the servants 
Avere coming up Avith the rifles. In their rear Avas a line of 
about tAvent}^ soldiers, and on the otlier flank Avas the deep river 
'about 110 yards Avide from the mainland to the island. 

Just as the rifles Avere Avithin a few yards of me and I wa. 



CHAP. XII.] 



SHOOT TWO ELEPHANTS. 



199 



preparing to dismount, the elephants wheeled suddenly round, 
and took to water. 

They had been standing in a low, swampy spot that was 
frequently overflowed : thus they had no difficulty in descending 
to the river. Close to this place, the banks were perpendicular, 
and as hard as brick. 

I ran down to the river, but by the time of my arrival, the 
elephants had gained the opposite bank ; there, however, they 
were in a difficulty. The water was deep, and the shore of the 
island was perpendicular, and about six feet above the water. 
They could not get out without breaking down the bank so as to 
form an incline. Already these enormous creatures, which are 
accustomed to such difficulties, were tearing d,own the earth with 
their tusks and horny-toed feet ; still it was a work of time, 
that gave me a good opportunity. 

It was difficult to obtain a shot, as the elephants were end on. 
The distance was about 110 yards, Avhicli is very uncertain for 
so large an animal, that must be struclc exactly in the right place. 

I fired several shots with the Ko. 8 breechloader, aimed at the 
back of their heads, but none of these were successful. 

Monsoor had the ammunition, and reloaded for me. The stun- 
ning ehect of the heavy metal confused the animals and caused 
one to fall backward into the scrambling herd. This turned an 
elephant sideways. The bank had already given way and had 
fallen in large masses into the water, which reduced the depth. 
The elephants, which had now gained a muddy footing, ploughed 
and tore down the yielding earth with redoubled vigour, as my 
men in great excitement opened a hot fire upon them with the 
snider rifles. These had about as much effect as though they had 
been pelted with stones. 

Presently, as the depth was lessened by the falling bank, the 
elephants showed more body above the surface. The splashing 
and scrambling was extraordinary ; at length a large bull half 
ascended the bank, and for a moment exposed his flank ; I fired 
a quickright and left shot with a Reilly ITo. 8 behind his shoulder, 
and he fell backwards into the river, where he commenced a 
series of wild struggles that brought him within twenty yards of 
me, and I sent a ball into his head which killed him. The 
powerful stream at once carried away the floating carcase. 

The bank had now completely given way, and an elephant was 
nearly on the summit. I fired at him with one of the Holland 
half-pounders, which by the recoil flew out of my hands for a 



200 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XII. 



distance of several yards ; this was loaded with twelve drachms 
of line-grain powder. The elephant fell on his knees on the steep 
incline, and Avas bagged to all intents and purposes, but believing 
that I had plenty of ammunition at hand, I hred another half- 
pounder into his shoulder, which killed him on the spot, and he 
rolled into the water, and the current took him away. 

I immediately sent a man to order boats, with ro^Des and axes, 
to follow the carcases. 

In the mean time I fired my last 'No. 8 into the shoulder of 
an elephant that had just climbed the bank and gained the 
island. I now had a glorious opportunity of a shoulder-shot 
at every animal as it should ascend the steep incline. 

My ammunition was exhausted ! My servant, Suleiman, had 
sent the little bag that contained only one reload for the breech- 
loaders, and no powder-flask or shells for the half-pounders. I 
had now the annoyance of witnessing the difficult ascent of the 
elephants in single lilo, exposing their flanks in succession to the 
shoulder-shot, while I remained a helpless looker-on. 

I had thus bagged only two out of eleven, but these were 
killed at very long shots (about 110 yards). 

The half-pounder rifles were the same calibre and pattern as 
that described in " Thy Xile Tributaries of Abyssinia " as " the 
Baby." These were made by Mr. Holland of Bond Street, and 
are the most overpowering riHes I ever used. They were certain 
to kill the elephant, and to half kill the man who fired them 
with twelve drachms of fine-grain powder. I was tolerably 
strong, therefore I was never killed outright ; but an Arab 
hunter had his collar-bone smashed by the recoil, when the rifle 
was leaded with simple coarse-grain powder. If he had used 
fine-grain, I should hardly have insured his life. 

The elephants having gained the island, remained some time 
exj^osed, before they made up their minds to cross to the other 
side. Unfortunately, the boats had followed the carcases of the 
elephants down the river, which were two miles distant before 
they could be secured ; therefore we had no means of reaching 
the island. Our vessels could not have crossed, as there were 
many rocks below stream. 

I therefore took a few shots with Hale's rockets, one of which 
just grazed the rump of an elephant, and sent them off" in great 
astonishment. AVe then tried a few shots with the fieldpicce, 
but the gun made bad [a-actiee, and the shells exploded very 
wildly, and not according to the distances regulated by tho 
fusees. 



OHAP. XIII.] NATIVES EAGER FOR THE FLESH. 



201 



The specific gravity of the elephant differs considerably from 
that of the hippopotamus. The latter animal invariably sinks 
when killed, and the body rises to the surface in about two 
hours, when the gas has distended the stomach. The body of 
an elephant floats on the surface immediately that it is killed, 
and is capable of supporting one or more persons. The cavity 
of the carcase is much larger in the elephant than in the hippo- 
potamus ; the latter is a dense mass of flesh, covered by an 
exceedingly thick and heavy skin, the specific gravity of which 
is considerably greater than water. 



CHAPTEK XIII. 

MORAL RESULTS OF THE HUNT. 

The moral result of the elephant hunt was very satisfactory, at 
the same time most unexjDected. 

The sound of cannon had been heard by the natives for many 
miles ; this had awakened their curiosity, and numbers had sped 
from the surrounding heights and satisfied themselves that 
se Feral elephants had been killed. The natives of Bedden 
flocked to our little camp in hundreds, and were delighted at 
receiving permission to take as much elephant's flesh as they 
required. They raced along the bank for a couple of miles to 
the spot where the two elephants had been secured by my 
people, and towed upon a sand-bank. 

I had sent down a noggur to make sure of the heads, as the 
opportunity of obtaining entire skulls seldom offered. These 
two heads had now been brought safely to camp, and the 
natives were employed in cleaning every atom of flesh from the 
bone. 

In the mean time, great numbers of our enemies were to be 
seen squatting upon the heights, watching the happier Baris of 
Bedden, who had congregated like vultures in the river, and 
were quarrelling and scrambling over the immense carcases of 
the elephants. The temptation was too great to withstand. 
Who could resist flesh 1 The mouths of our enemies were 
watering, as they Avatched the heavy loads of red meat carried 
upon the heads of the rival Baris. In the afternoon_, a mes- 



202 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII, 



senger hailed the sentry to say that one of the sheiks wished to 
present himself to me to crave a cessation of hostilities. Shortly 
after the disappearance of this man with a courteous answer, a 
batch of messengers arri's'ed to beg that their chief might be 
received, as they all desired peace. 

On the following morning I held a general levee. About 
twenty headmen, or sheiks of jDrincipal villages, attended by 
many of their peoj^le, came to present themselves and to sue for 
peace. I received the chiefs on my diahbeeah, and each received 
a present of a long blue shirt as he stepped on board. They 
now seated themselves by Bedden, and a general explanation 
took jDlace. 

I assured them of my regret that tbey had forced me into 
war, as my mission to the country had been one of peace ; at the 
same time tlie}^ must have seen how impossible it was to resist 
the troops xAio were armed with weapons of precision, and 
drilled in a manner A^ery diiiercnt from the companies of slave- 
hunters. 

I told them that I had many thousand cattle, and that had 
they agreed to sell me the corn that was absolutely needed for 
the troops, I should have paid for it punctually with cows, as I 
had j)i'oniised them when I first entered their district. I also 
explained that, as they must have observed, I had never taken a 
single head of cattle from them, although I had frequently heard 
the lowing of their oxen. I had adopted this conduct, although 
in actual Avar, merely to impress upon them the fact that tbey 
might depend upon my word. I had offered to exchange my 
cattle for their corn ; thus had I taken their cattle, tliey miglit 
have disbelieved my sincerit}^ 

They replied, that " it must be expected that little differences 
would occur at the beginning." Tliey had been incited agamst 
US by the Baris of Belinian, and the war Avas entirely their own 
fault. At the same time they laughed, and said that hunger 
AA\as a very bad thing, and that hungry men v/ould always fill 
their stomachs, if they could, therefore Ave had been quite right 
to take their corn." They declared that it did not in the least 
matter, as the islands Avere A'ery fertile, and Avould produce 
another crop very quickly; in the mean tiaie they had a good 
suppl}^ concealed, and their loss only necessitated a little extra 
labour. 

They continued this peaceable conversation by saying, that 
" the elephants Avere seldom seen in this district, and tliat the 
Baris did not understand such hunting, but they had heard the 



CHAP, XIII.] PEACE ESTABLISHED. 



203 



cannons, and tliey kneAV that we should be able to kill them." 
The meeting concluded by a request for meat ; and the sheiks 
having given instructions to certain messengers, despatched them 
to summon their jDeople to the sand-bank, where the remains of 
the elephants were lying. 

In a short time, swarms of natives, lately our enemies, were 
collecting from all quarters, and hurrying towards the attractive 
spot, as though they ^vere going to a fair. 

I gave the headmen ^ a present of beads, and took them to 
admire themselves in the large glass within the cabin of the 
diahbeeah. I scrambled some pounds of beads among their 
people, and got up foot-races for prizes. 

The natives selected some of their best runners ; but although 
they ran well, they were all beaten by Ali IS^edjar of the ''Forty 
Thieves," who was the champion runner of the expedition. 

The sheiks requested that the cannon might bo fired for their 
amusement. A shot with blank cartridge made them look very 
serious. They then went to look at the two elephants' heads, 
Avhich they believed had been blown off by the cannon on the 
day of the hunt. 

They returned to the diahbeeah, and ordered tlieir people to 
bring the present they had prepared for me. This consisted of 
thiity-one jars of merissa, each of which was duly tasted by 
themselves as a proof of the absence of poison. 

Before they departed, I was assured, not only of their regret 
\ that any misunderstanding should have taken place, but that 
after their bean crop, which would be in about two months, 
they would unite with Bedden and carry all my baggage into 
the interior. They took leave and went oif in the direction of 
the dead elephants. 

Here was a sudden change in the politics of the country ! 
Peace had been effected by the sacrifice of two elephants ! 

This peace was the result of greediness and envy. The natives 
had pined for the flesh, and envied the Baris of Bedden who 
were carrying it away ; therefore they sued for peace. 
1 At the same time, they had originally declined my offer of a 
] large herd of cattle that would have been worth a hundred 
elephants. Thus they had courted war, in Avhich they had lost 

i \ The superior chief was presented with a costume wliich delighted him. 
This was a long blue shirt with red waist-baud, a bright tin funnel inverted 
to form a helmet with a feather in the tube, and a pair of spectacles. He 
Wared that he would be " the admiration of the women." 



204 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII. 



some of tlieir people, together with much corn, all of which they 
might have sold for cows ; and they now desired peace, only to 
join in the scramble, like vultures, over the flesh of two elephants. 

African negroes are incomprehensible people, and they cannot 
be judged by the ordinary rules of human nature. It was easy 
to understand, that if they desired peace upon so frivolous a 
pretext, they would plunge into war with the same frivolity — 
Avith a " cceur Jeger" 

As each division of the district quickly followed the example 
of another in desiring peace, in like manner would they follow 
an evil example in provoking hostilities. 

They had now professed friendship for the sake of a fevv^ steaks. 
They had promised to carry our baggage into the interior. If 
they would only be true to this offer, I should be able to transport 
the steamer, as the natives could easily drag the two-wheeled carts. 
Although I doubted their professions, I had some secret hopes 
of success, and I resolved to do all in my power to establish 
confidence. I therefore invited two very intelligent natives to 
pay me a visit, and to reside some time at Gondokoro, wliere 
they would witness the general management of the station, and 
see the workshops, &c. They would also see the vast herds of 
cattle belonging to the government, the spoil of the Bari war. 
This would be a sight most interesting to the eyes of Baris^ as it 
would be a lesson of the great power of the government to either 
punish or reward. 

In the afternoon I was visited by other native headmen from 
the east side of the JSTile. These people had swum the river, and 
had followed the example of the other natives to sue for p>eace, 
and to beg for elephant's flesh. 

This extraordinary craving for flesh would suggest that the 
Baris were devoid of cattle. On the contrary, there are coantless 
lierds throughout the country ; but the natives have a great 
objection to kill them, and merely keep the cows for their milk, 
and the bullocks to bleed. 

The cows are also bled periodically, and the blood is boiled 
and eaten, much in the same manner that black pudding is used 
throughout Europe. A herd of cattle v/ill thus provide animal 
food without the necessity of slaughtering. 

The great traveller, Bruce, v/as discredited for having described 
a fact of which he was an eye-witness. This was the vivisection 
of a cow, driven by natives, who cut a steak out of her hind- 
quarters. 

I had a bull with a very large hump. This animal was very 



OHAP. XIII.] 



AN EXCURSION INLAND. 



205 



handsome, and was kept for stock. I observed that the skin of 
the hump showed a long jagged scar from end to end, and my 
people assured me that this bull had frequently been operated 
upon. It had been the property of one of the slave-hunters' 
parties, and they had been in the habit of removing the hump 
(as a surgeon would a tumour). This is the most delicate portion 
of the meat, and I was assured that the hump would always be 
replaced by a similar growth after each operation.^ 

On 18th I^ovember, E commenced the marcli homewards. The 
natives were now friendly throughout the route, and my men 
were strictly forbidden to enter a village. Tliere was a great 
change in my officers and troops ; they had fallen into my ways 
and obeyed every order with alacrity. They had learned to 
place thorough reliance upon any plans that were arranged ; and, 
now that they knew the necessity of obedience and discipline, 
they had, imperceptibly to themselves, changed from ruffians into 
very orderly soldiers. 

On the march homewards, upon arrival at the foot of a moun- 
tain, I made an excursion inland, as this was a portion of the 
country that I had not yet visited, though only six miles from 
Gondokoro. The natives were very shy, but I at length succeeded 
in obtaining an interview with their sheik, a tall powerful fellow, 
named Mori'. I explained that I required no corn, nor any 
supplies, except stone. ^ 

The country abounded with pieces of gneiss with a very straight 
cleavage, that suited them admirably for building purposes. All 
the granaries of this country were supported upon pillars formed 
of single stones, about three feet long. The houses were also 
protected by large flat stones arranged like tiles around the base, 
and thus securing the sides from the driven storms of rain. 

On 19th November, I returned to Gondokoro highly satisfied 
with the result of the campaign. ]^ot only were my magazines 
all filled with more than twelve months' supply of corn, but I 
had established peace throughout a large and powerful district, 
and I had received promises of assistance, and an assurance of 
allegiance to the government. 

Abou Saood, who had received permission to go to Khartoum, 
had only gone down the river as far as his station at the Bohr. 
There he had made arrangements with his people that the ivory 
from Latooka station, 100 miles east of Gondokoro, should avoid 

^ This bull was left at Fort Fatiko. 
2 This sheik Meri and his people always remained faithful to the govern- 
ment from that day. 



206 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIlI. 



my head-quarters, and be conveyed by an oblique course to tbo 
Bohr. By this swindle, the government would be cheated out 
of the share of two-fifths of the ivory which belonged to them 
by contract with Agad Co. 

Abou Saood having personally witnessed the departure of the 
troops to Khartoum, considered his game as Avon, and that the 
expedition, mnv reduced to only 502 officers and men, would be 
compelled to centralize at Gondokoro, without the possibility of 
penetrating the interior. He had thus s'arted for his stations in 
the distant south, vdiere he intended to incite the natives against 
the government, to prevent me from following out my plans wuth 
the small force at my disj)0sal. 

This Avas the first time in the career of Abou Saood that he 
had ever travelled inland. He had for many years been in the 
habit of arriving at Gondokoro from Ivliartoum Avith the annual 
A'Cssels from Agad & Co., bringing ncAV levies of brigands 
together Avith fresh supplies of arms and ammunition. He then 
remained at Gondokoro for several AA^eeks, and received the iA^ory 
and slaves collected from his A\arious stations in the interioi', 
Avith AAdiich he returned to Khartoum. 

The necessity of tlie occasion induced him to use much per- 
sonal activity. KnoAving Avell the date when my term of service 
would expire, he had only one object, in AA'hich he had already 
nearly succeeded, — this AA^as to prevent the possibility of my 
advance AAuthin the given period. 

It AA^as therefore necessary for him to Adsit his stations, and to 
Avarn his people to hold both their slav^es and ivory until I 
should be Avithdrawn from Gondokoro b}^ the expiration of my 
term of servdce ; after Avhich, he had no doubt that things Avould 
quickly return to their former happy state. By these means he 
Avould be able to cheat the gOA^ernment out of the tAvo-fifths of 
all ivory; he Avould preserve his slaves; and a judicious present 
to some high official AA^ould reinstate him in his original position 
as the greatest slave-hunter of the White Xile ; Avitli the addi- 
tional Icudos of having baffled the Christian Pacha. 

I had already Avritten to assure the Khedive that, should my 
Avork not be satisfactorily accomplished at the expiration of my 
term of service, I should continue at my post until I could 
honourabl}'- resign the command, Avlien the government should 
be firmly established in the interior. 

I noAv devoted every energy to the preparations for starting, 
together Avitli the English engineers and the steamer. Having 
given the necessary instructions to the engineer in chief, Mr. 



oHAP. XIII.] PEACE AT GONDOKORO. 



Higginbotham, I had no anxiety, as I felt sure that eveiything 
would be in order. 

The carts were to be thoroughly examined, and the ]^o, 3 
steamer of 38 tons was to bo divided in parcels ; the small work 
secured in loads of fifty pounds, each sewn up in raw hide, and 
the heavier portions divided among the carts. 

The officers were now perfectly resigned to their lot. The 
remnant of the Egyptian force had been converted into artillery- 
men, and all the Soudanis formed one regiment. 

While Mr. Higginbotham vfas engaged in the ^vork of arrang- 
ing and packing, my masons were busy in making bricks, as I 
wislicd eventually to build the barracks of this solid material, 
instead of trusting to the dangerously inflammable straw-huts. 
I had already written to England for sufficient galvanized iron 
j for 3,000 feet of building in actual length. 

i Although galvanized iron is hot in a tropical climate, it can 
easily be protected from the sun by a light framework of canes 
slightly thatched. ISly Soudanis were never overpowered by 
li(:at, as they had been born in a high temperature. 

On my return to Gondokoro, I found that Meri's natives had 
collected a large quantity of stones, and they had sent to recpest 
a vessel to transport them. I gave them a cow, and they had a 
general dance. This reception seemed to delight them, and they 
returned to their villages, accompanied by a noggur with an officer 
and twenty men. I gave strict orders that no soldier should 
enter a native hut under any pretext. 

The Eari war was over. Upon every side the natives had 
I been thoroughly subdued. I now heard from our Bari inter- 
I preters, Sherroom and ]\Iorgian, that the Sheik Allorron was 
willing to sue for peace, and to declare his allegiance to the 
government. 

j Abou Saood and his people had departed ; thus the evil spirit 
' was withdrawn that had hitherto covertly incited the natives 
against the government, and the effect of his absence was imme- 
diately apparent. 

I devoted my attention to the final preparations for the start, 
and to the necessary instructions for the command of the station 
during my absence. The officers found that it was now impos- 
^ sible to resist their destiny ; and Eaouf Bey, the colonel, who 
1 had, against orders, sent off so many troops to Khartoum who 
v/ere in good health, now discovered that he would be left with 
a comparatively small force to hold the important position at 
head-cjuarters. 



208 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII. 



The troops who had iDsen employed under my personal command, 
were very anxious to accompany me into tlie ec^uatorial district. 

There was no more fighting. All my hopes of peace were at 
length realized. The nights were always undisturbed, and the 
sentries might have indulged in sleep Avitliout tlie slightest 
danger. A dead calm liad succeeded to the excitement of con- 
stant watchfulness. 

I nov,'- employed the ''Forty Thieves" in making salt. There 
were peculiar surface mines within a mile of my little station. 
These were situated upon a sand}^ loam on the banks of a 
brackish lake, that swarmed witli crocodiles. 

The salt always showed upon the surface after a shower of 
rain had been evaporated by the sun. This efilorescence, 
together with sand and other impurities, Avas .scraped from the 
earth with large mussel shells. It w^as then placed in earthen- 
ware vessels containing about five gallons. There were pierced 
with holes in the bottom, which were covered with a wisp of 
straw as a strainer. The jars, being full of salt and sand, vrere 
watered occasionally, and the brine accordingl}^ filtered through 
to a receiver. The contents were boiled, and produced the 
finest chloride of sodium. 

The natural productions of the neighbourhood were salt, iron, 
tamarinds, the oil-nut tree ; and the cultivation of the natives 
was principally Hthlscus hemp, tobacco, varieties of beans, 
sesame, dliurra, and dochan (millet). I endeavoured to per- 
suade the Baris to cultivate and prepare large quantities of the 
Hibiscus hemp, which would be extremely valuable in the 
Soudan. The Baris used it for nets and fishing-lines. 

The tamarinds were of two varieties, and were produced in 
extraordinary quantities. About two miles from head-quarters, 
there was an extensive portion of the forest composed almost 
exclusively of these magnificent trees. 

The forest was also rich in the tree known by the Arabs 
as " hcglik." This bears a fruit about the size of a date 
(lalobe), which is a combination of sweet, bitter, and highly 
aromatic. My men collected several hundredweight, as I wished 
to try an experiment in distilling. There was an excellent 
copper still in the magazine, and I succeeded in producing a 
delicious spirit somewhat resembling kirschenwasser. 

I^dy cotton was now ripe, and I cleaned it with a small hand 
gin that could be worked by two men. This greatly interested 
the Bari visitors, who, by my special invitation, had been residing 
for some time at Gondokoro. 



onAP. xiir.] A NIGHT VISIT PROM ELEPHANTS. 



209 



The dry season had been very unfavourable for cotton ; never- 
theless, the quality was good, and proved that it would thrive in 
the locality. The species that was indigenous grew to a great 
size, and seemed to defy the drouglit. This bore a red blossom, 
and the pod was small. The native cotton was of short staple, 
and adhered strongly to the seed. 

On 2 9 til ISTovember, two Arabs arrived from Abou Saood's 
Latooka station, 100 miles east of Gondokoro : they had travelled 
at night, and were deserters from the vakeel. One of these 
fellows turned out to be my old follower during my former 
journey, J\Iohammed the camel-driver, and he literally cried with 
joy when he saw my wife and me again. He gave me all the 
news from the slave-traders' camp, which was full of slaves, and 
they were afraid that I might arrive, as they were aware that I 
knew the road. The vakeel of Latooka had received and har- 
boured two of my Egyptian soldiers, who had deserted from 
Gondokoro and joined the slave-hunters under the guidance of 
a Eari. 

On 1st December, Lieutenant Eaker shot a fine bull elephant, 
with very large tusks ; this was within four miles of head- 
quarters. At this season they were very numerous in the neigh- 
bourhood of Gondokoro. Daring my absence to the south of 
Eegiaf, there had been a curious nocturnal alarm in the station. 

Upon a fine moonlight night the sentries were astonished by 
the appearance of two immense bull elephants, that, having 
marched along the clifP, took the fort in the rear on the river side. 

The fort was a redan, open at the river base ; thus, unheeding 
the sentry, the elephants coolly walked into the centre. The 
sentry's musket was immediately responded to by the guard ; the 
buglers, startled by a sharp fire of musketry, blew the alarm. 

The elephants, now alarmed in their turn, rushed onwards, 
but upon ascending the earthwork, they were met by a deep 
yawning ditch, which they could not cross. The whole force 
turned out, and the attack on the thick-skinned intruders became 
general. The bullets flew so wildly that it was more dangerous 
for bystanders than for the elephants. 

In the mean while, the panic-stricken animals charged wildly 
in all directions, but were invariably stopped by the ditch and 
rampart, until at last they happened to find the right direction, 
and retreated by their original entrance, most probably not much 
the worse for the adventure. 

Mr. Higginbotham, who gave me this account, described the 
excitement of the troops as so intense, that they let their muskets 

p 



210 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII. 



off completely at random : and so thick were the bullets in his ; 
direction, that he was obliged to take shelter behind a white-ant ' 
hill. 

I had no time to devote to elephant-shooting, otherwise I 
might have killed a considerable number in the neighbourhood ¦ 
of Gondokoro. The Baris are not good hunters, and they merely 
catch the elephants in pitfalls ; therefore, being free from attack, 
these animals are exceedingly daring, and easy to approach. 

They are generally attracted by the ripe lalobes, the fruit 
already described of the heglik {Balanites Egyptiaca). The 
trees, if of medium size, are frequently torn down for the sake of \ 
tLis small production, that would appear too insignificant for the ' 
notice of so huge an animal. ; 

I once had an opportimity of Avitnessing an elephant's strength ' 
exerted in his search for this small fruit. I was in the Shir | 
country, and one evening, accompanied by Lieutenant Baker, I j 
strolled into the forest, about half a mile from our vessels, to i 
Avatch for waterbuck {Rediinca ElUpsiprijmna) in a small glads I 
where I had shot one on the previous evening. 1 

We had not long been concealed, when I heard a peculiar 
noise in the thick forest that denoted the approach of elephants. -3( 

We at once retreated to some rising ground about 150 paces 
distant, as our small rifles would have been useless against such 
heavy game. Tn a short time several elephants appeared from 
various portions of the covert, and one of extraordinary size I 
moved slowly towards us, until he halted beneath a tall, spread- j 
ing heglik. This tree must have been nearly three feet in | 
diameter, and was about thirty feet high from the ground to the | 
first branch ; it was therefore impossible for the elephant to i 
gather the coveted fruit. To root up such a tree would have j 
been out of the question. The elephant paused for a short time, ' 
as though considering; he then butted his forehead suddenly 
against the trunk. I could not have believed the effect : this 
large tree, which was equal in appearance to the average size of 
park-timber, quivered in every branch to such a degree, that had 
a person taken refuge from an elephant, and thought himself ' 
secure in the top, he would have found it difficult to hold on. j 

When the lalobes fall, they must be picked up individually ; j 
and although the trouble appears disproportioned to the value of 
the fruit, there is no food so much coveted by elephants. 

ISTear tliis spot, on the following day, I had a close adventure 
with a hippopotamus. . I had gone to the same place where I 
had seen the elephants, and I was returning through the forest 



f 



OHAP. XIII.] IMPENETRABLE HIPPOPOTAMUS. 



211 



•within a few yards of the river margin, when, upon suddenly 
turning round a dense thorn-bush, I came within four or five 
paces of a large bull hippopotamus. This animal had left the 
river for an evening ramble on the shore, and was munching 
some succulent grass with such gusto that he had not heard my 
approach. Unfortunately, I had come upon him exactly at right 
angles, which restricted my shot to the temple. This is the most 
difficult of penetration in the hippopotamus. 

I only had the "Dutchman," and my attendant Monsoor 
carried a snider rifle ; thus we were badly armed for so impene- 
trable a beast. I fired just in front of the ear, certainly within 
fifteen feet. The only efiect produced was a shake of his head, 
and he appeared rather stupid, as though stunned. The left- 
hand barrel followed quickly upon the right. IMonsoor fired with 
his snider. The " Dutchman," being a breechloader, was ready 
again, and we fired into this stupid-looking brute as though he 
had been a target, and with about the same eifect. 

Suddenly, as though we had just awakened him, he turned 
round and bolted into a dense mass of thorns, about thirty paces 
before us. 

In the mean time, the troops at the vessels, that were within 
al)out 300 paces, having heard the rapid and continued firing, 
supposed that I had been attacked by the natives. The Forty 
Thieves" rushed to the rescue. I heard the bugle, and presently 
the voices of the men as they approached, running through the 
bush at full speed. The hippopotamus had moved from his 
thorny retreat, and was walking slowly forward, when he was 
stumbled against by " The Forty," some of whom literally ran 
against him. 

The animal appeared quite stunned and stupid, and he 
merely stood and stared at his new assailants. The sight was 
perfectly ridiculous. Every rifle was fired into him ; but the 
hollow bullets of the sniders had no penetration, and we might 
as well have peppered the stone bulls of Nineveh, in the British 
Museum. At length, after having been the centre of a blaze of 
fireworks, as every man did his best to kill him during the space 
of about a minute, he coolly a^^proached the edge of the cliff, 
which was quite perpendicular and about eighteen feet high. 

A tremendous splash was the end of the encounter, as the 
hippo committed himself to the deep, with a clumsy jump from 
the midst of the disappointed soldiers. 

I was constantly annoyed by the want of penetration of the 
Boxer hollow buUets. The ^'Dutchman" carried three drachms 

p 2 



212 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII. 



of ISTo. 6-graiii powder, which should have driven a solid bullet 
through a large antelope ; but the hollow Boxer projectile in- 
variably disappeared in small fragments upon striking a bone ; 
or it expanded, and had no further penetrating power after 
striking a thick hide. 

The siiiders, although admirable military weapons, possessed 
a YQvy small power of penetration. I have frequently seen the 
bodies of natives with only one bullet-mark ; and I have ex- 
tracted bullets that ought to have passed completely through. 

i My " Forty Tliieves " were now proud of themselves as ex- 
perienced in various sports, and they were terribly disgusted at 
the escape of the hippopotamus. They were never idle for a 
single da}^ If no other work was on hand, I practised them at 
the target, or they were treated to a few hours' drill. 

Sometimes I took them fishing : this was always a great 
amusement, as the expedition was well furnished with nets. 

There was a small lake near my station that abounded in fish. 
One of my sailors belonging to the diahbeeah was a profes- 
sional fisherman, descended from a race of this calling. I had 
therefore intrusted him w^ith the charge of the nets. All the 
sailors of the diahbeeah were good men, but the fisherman, 
Howarti, w^as the best of the picked crew. He was a ISTubian, 
born in Khartoum, and of an exceedingly light colour. His 
style of beauty was rather spoiled by the loss of one eye, and. 
altogether his personal appearance was not attractive; but he 
was very strong, although a small man, and in any case of 
emergency he was the most active and intelligent sailor. How- 
arti was always the first man to leap overboard with the tow 
rope, when it became necessary to drag the vessel against 
wind and stream : ho was, like all !N"ubians, an admirable 
swimmer. 

Our comfort had depended much upon this man throughout 
the expedition, as he was the only person who could properly 
throw a casting-net. Thus he had always supplied us with 
excellent fish. I often admired his perseverance, when, after 
twenty or thirty barren casts, he rested for a while, cleaned 
his net, and waded, in spite of crocodiles, to seek a more likely 
spot to catch fish for breakfast, at a time when this meal M-oiild 
depend entirely upon his success. At such times I frequently 
advised him as a good Mohammedan to say "Bismillah" (in 
the name of God) before he threw the net. On the first occa- 
sion, before I gave him this advice, he had had extremely bad 
luck, and he told me that "something Avas wrong with the 



OHAP. XIII.] HOWARTI EXCLAIMS "BISMILLAH !" 



213 



fish ; " as he had thrown his net for an hour without catcliing 
anything except a few uneatable spike-fish. 

I advised him to come with me in the dingy ; and having 
rowed a short distance, we arrived at a sand-bank in the bend of 
the river. Here we landed, and I found fault with Howarti for 
omitting to say Bismillah ! " 

" Will it do any good?" asked the profane Howarti. '*Try," 
I replied ; " you knoAV the opinion of Mohammedans ; now 
then, Howarti, say 'Bismillah,' and throAv just in that hole 
close to the weeds. Spin your net so that it shall fall perfectly 
round, and advance very quietly to the edge, so that your 
shadow shall not disturb the fish." 

" Bismillah ! " ejaculated Howarti, and he crept cautiously 
forv/ard to a very likely-looking hole. " Bismillah ! " and with 
a dexterous throw, the net described an exact circle as it fell 
evenly upon the water. 

No sooner had the fisherman commenced to tighten the crown 
line, when the rapid and powerful jerks showed that he had 
something good within his net. 

" Now, Howarti, look sharp ! the bottom is clean sand : haul 
away, and don't give them time to burrow beneath the leads." 

Howarti hauled away, and as the net came near the shore, 
there was such a splashing and jumping as he had rarely seen. 
The net came in upon the clean sand-bank, and we counted up- 
wards of forty fine boulti, several of about four pounds, and the 
smallest about half a pound weight. 

Howarti, having counted his fish, exclaimed, piously, " El- 
liambd-el-Illah ! " and added : "In future I shall always say 
'Bismillah!'" 

Howarti cleaned his net : the fish were placed in a basket, 
and were covered with some river-weed to keep them fresh. 

Once more the fisherman arranged his net upon his arm, and 
cautiously approached a most inviting little nook, where some 
large lotus leaves floating on the surface denoted a medium 
depth. 

'' Now then, Howarti, throw very carefully, so as to spread 
your net in that open space among the lilies, and take care to 
avoid the leaf stems that would lift the leads." 

" Bismillah ! " away flew the net, which fell in a circle, 
exactly in the spot desired. 

It Avas amusing to watch the usually stolid countenance of 
Howarti, that Avas now expressive of intense curiosity. 

The crown-line jerked and tugged even more than at the first 



214 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIII. 



lucky throw. Howarti cleverly and cautiously laiided liis net. 
It contained a regular "miraculons draught," including a Nile 
carp of about nine pounds. 

"That will do, Howarti," I exclaimed; "we have fish enough 
for all the people on the diahbeeah, as well as for the officers of 
'The Forty.'" The basket would not contain them; therefore 
the larger fish were laid upon grass in the bottom of the boat, 
and we returned home. 

Howarti now divided the fish according to orders, and ex- 
plained to the delighted crowd the extraordinary effect of the 
word " Bismillah," which insured a netful at every cast. 

On the following morning, at sunrise, the now pious Ilowarti 
went out as usual with his casting-net accompaniel l^y a sailor, 
Avho carried the largest basket he could procure. 

We had moved our position, and there was no sand-bank in 
the neighbourhood. 

After an absence of about two hours, Howarti returned, 
together with his companion and the large basket. This coii- 
tained a few small fish hardly sufficient for our breakfast. 

" Ah, Howarti ! " I exclaimed, " you are a bad Mussulman- - 
you have forgotten to say 'Bismillah.' " 

" Indeed," replied the dejected fisherman, " I repeated ' Bis- 
millah ' at every cast ; but it's of no nse saying ' Bismillah ' in 
deep water ; nothing will catch them in the deep, and I can 
catch them without ' Bismillah ' in the shallows." 

Howarti was not a fanatical ]^>Iohammedan. Poor fellow ! he 
never lived to return with us to Khartoum : his melancholy 
death will be described hereafter. 

In fishing in the lake at Gondokoro Howarti had the usual 
charge of the proceedings. We dragged a boat across the neck 
of land from the river, and having launched it, we first laid a 
stop-net 140 yards in length along the bank of bulrushes that 
grew in water about five feet deep ; this Avas to stop the fish 
from running into the rushes on the advance of the drag-net. 

We now dragged a portion of the lake towards the stop-net, 
intending to land it upon an incline where the water was 
extremely shallow. 

The " Forty Thieves " hauled away steadily enough until the 
net came close in. At that moment several immense fish dashed 
about within the narrowed inclosure ; these created such excite- 
ment, that the men rushed into the water to secure them, which 
ended in the escape of the greater portion of the fish. 

The next haul was very successful, and after fishing for 



CHAP. XIII.] 



FISH OF THE UPPER NILE. 



215 



about two hours, we caught 434 fine fish, one of which weighed 
40 lbs. and aiiotlier 26 lbs. I sent 200 to liead-quarters for the 
troops. 

The greater number of these fish were boulti and baggera, 
both of w"hich are species of perch, and are delicious eating. I 
have never caught a boulti larger than five pounds, but the 
baggera grows to an immense size, and I have seen them about 
150 lbs. or more. I once weighed a baggera ujDwards of 130 lbs., 
but they are said to attain a weight of several hundreds. 

I have formerly described the beauty of this salmon-coloured 
fish in "The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia." 
• It is well known that in all countries the same species of fish 
differs in flavour and quality according to the water in which it 
is caught ; thus the boulti and baggera are almost worthless in 
the lower ISTiJe, compared with the same fish of the upper river. 

Travellers may often unjustly condemn a fish as worthless, 
because it may have been out of season when they had the 
opportunity of eating it. 

I never tasted any fresk- water fish superior to a boulti, slightly 
salted, and smoked for twelve or eighteen hours. 

In hot climates all fish should be split down the back, and 
laid open ; they should then be salted and should lie for a few 
hours to drain ; after which they should be hung over the smoke 
of a dry-wood fire. This treatment renders them delicious for 
immediate use, but if required to keep, they must be smoked for 
a couple of days, and then be highly dried in the sun. 

The 14th December was the Mohammedan holiday called the 
" Time el Ete," on which day every person, however poor he or 
she may be, is supposed to dress in new clothes. 

We had now been upwards of twelve months without com- 
munication with Khartoum. The soldiers' clothes were reduced 
to rags, as they had suffered much from hard work and fighting 
in thorny bush. The whole force was in despair : they were in 
arrears of pay, they were without clothes ; the festival was close 
at hand, and instead of turning out in finer}^, they would be 
dirty, dingy, and ragged. 

Every one was downcast. The troops could not possibly start 
with me to the interior, to represent the government in a state of 
rags or nudity. 

On 13th December, the day preceding the festival, I sum- 
moned the officers to the magazine, in which I fortunately had 
all that could be required. The merchandise and general stores 



216 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. xiir. 



tliat I had purchased in England had no connection with the 
army clothing and stores which should have been supplied for 
the troops from Khartoum. This supjDly had been impossible 
owing to the state of the river. 

I served out new clothing for the entire expedition. I 
arranged that 212 officers and men should accompany me to the 
interior. To these I gave scarlet flannel shirts and white 
trousers. The officers received aU that they required, and the 
men were allowed to purchase from the government stores any 
articles that they considered necessary for themselves or their 
wives. ^ 

On 14th December the cannons fired at sunrise to proclaim 
the holiday. I rode up to head-quarters and inspected the 
troops on parade, all in their new uniforms. Every man was in 
a good humour, and they burst out into three cheers as I com- 
pleted the inspection and addressed a few words to them. 

The men's wives were decked out with gaudy colours, and 
were happy in proportion to the amount of red and yellow. 

The troops and sailors were astonished at the unfailing con- 
tents of the magazines, which established confidence that should 
we be positively cut off from all communication with Khartoum, 
we were nevertheless independent of supplies. 

Everything was in order at Gondokoro. The natives were at 
peace ; food was abundant ; the station securely fortified. 

I now determined to penetrate into the south, and to carry a 
steamer in sections to iST. lat. 3° 32', where she Avould be con- 
structed by the Englishmen, and launched on the navigable 
river above the last cataracts, to open the communication with 
the Albert iS^'yanza. 

All intrigues and opposition to the expedition had been over- 
come. Although my force was small, the men were full of 
confidence, and promised to follow wheresoever I might lead. 

1 There was no cash at Gondokoro ; thus, in the absence of pay, the 
soldiers were contented with the supplies from the magazine which 
furnished all their wants. 



OHAP. XIV.] 



PLAN OF ADVANCE. 



2i7 



CHAPTOR XIV. 

THE ADVANCE SOUTH. 

Military critics will condemn my arrangements for an advance 
south. 

My original plans had been well laid. A line of fortified posts 
was to have been established throughout the country at intervals 
of three days' march. This would have assured an open com- 
munication with Gondokoro. 

Unfortunately, my force had been 350 men short of the num- 
ber stipulated ; and the 1,200 men that had once been revievv'ed 
at Gondokoro had been reduced to 500. 

I could not leave a smaller force at head-quarters than 340 men, 
including the 52 sailors; thus I was left with only 212 officers 
and men to commence along and uncertain journey directly away 
from my base, without the power of communication in the event 
of unforeseen difficulty. 

I had already experienced the treachery of natives, upon whom 
no reliance could be placed. 

My intention was to leave the Englishmen, Avith the steamer 
sections, at a station to be formed at Ibrahimeyeh ^ on the navi- 
gable Nile, IN. lat. 3° 32', together with a small garrison. 

I should then endeavour to form an irregular corps of some of 
Abou Saood's men, who would be thrown out of employment at 
the expiration of the contract. This was near at hand. 

An irregular corps of 600 men would, in addition to my 200, 
enable me to complete the annexation of the country, and to finish 
my work before the reinforcements should arrive from Khartoum. 

On the other hand, the men of Abou Saood might refuse to 
enlist in government service. Already they had been rendered 
passively hostile by the influence of Abou Saood. They had 
secretly encouraged the Baris in their war against the govern- 
ment ; they might repeat this conduct, and incite the tribes 
against us in the interior. 

Should this occur, I should be placed in a dangerous position 
with so small a force, as it would be necessary to detach half the 
little body to march to Gondokoro for supports. 

I coulcl not defer my departure in the hope of receiving rein- 

1 Af addo ou the map. 



218 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIV. 



forcements from Kliartoum, as tlieir arrival would he quite un- 
certain, owing to the state of the river. 

Should I delay at Gondokoro, the dry season would pass by ; 
the ground, now baked hard by the sun, would become soft, and 
would render transport by carts impossible. 

The torrents would become impassable during the rains, espe- 
cially the river Asua, which in the wet season cuts off all com- 
munication with the south. This dangerous river was very 
imjDortant, as it would prevent a retreat should such a movement 
be necessary during the rainy season. 

I was well aware of the difficulties of the position, but I had 
only the choice of two evils. If I remained at Gondokoro, "my 
term of service would expire fruitlessly. I should simply have 
reduced the Baris, and have established the station. Abou Saood 
would remain in the interior among his numerous slave estab- 
lishments, to ridicule my impotence, and to defy my orders 
that he should quit the country. He would thus continue in the 
heart of Africa until I should have returned helplessly to Eng- 
land. He Avould then have resumed his original work of 
spoliation. The expedition would have been a failure. 

On the other hand, should my small force meet with defeat or 
destruction, both the military and the civil world would exclaim, 
" Serve him right ! the expedition to the interior made under 
such circumstances showed a great want of judgment ; a total 
ignorance of the first rules in military tactics. What could he 
expect, without an established communication, at a distance of 
three or four hundred miles from his base 1 Simple madness 1 — 
not fit to command ! " &c. &c. &c. 

I knew the risks and the responsibility ; but if I remained 
passive, I should be beaten. I had often got through difiiculties, 
and if risks are to be measured in Africa by ordinary calculations, 
there would bo little hope of progress. 

I determined to carry as large a supply of ammunition as could 
be transported, together mth sufficient merchandise, carefully 
assorted, to establish a legitimate ivory trade in my old friend 
Kamrasi's country, XJnyoro.^ 

The Englishmen would be occupied in the construction of the 
steamer at Ibrahimeyeh, while I should accomplish my mission 
farther south. 

I selected niy officers and men, carefully avoiding Egyptian 
officers, with the exception of my true friends and aides-de-camp, 



^ The Unyoro country is called by the traders " ]\Iagungo." 



CHAP, XIV.] 



THE HOUSEHOLD. 



219 



Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-cl-Kader, Captain Mohammed Deii of 
the " Forty Thieves," and the faithful Monsoor. 

The SoLidani officers that had served in Mexico under Marshal 
Bazaine were — Major Abdullah; Captain Morgian Sherriff; 
Captain Abdullah ; Lieutenants Morgian and Ferritch ; and 
several sergeants, corporals, &c. 

I also included three sailors belonging to my diahbeeah, as they 
would be useful in the event of boating excursions. These men. 
were Jali, IMohammed, and Howarti ; all of whom were armed, 
and fell into the line of rank and file as soldiers. 

The JSTo. 3 steamer had been packed with much care. The 
carts had been loaded with the heavy portions that could not be 
transported by carriers, and we had proved our capability of 
travelling provided the Baris of Bedden would remain faithful to 
their promise. Every cart had therefore been dismounted, and 
the material for the expedition was stowed on board six vessels. 

Our servants had much improved. The negro boys who had 
been liberated had grown into most respectable lads, and had 
learned to wait at table and to do all the domestic vv^ork required. 
First of the boys in intelligence was the Abyssinian, Amarn. 
This delicate little fellow was perfectly civilized, and always 
looked forward to accompanying his mistress to England. The 
next was Saat, who had received that name in memory of my 
good boy who died during my former voyage. Saat was a very 
fine, powerful lad, who was exceedingly attached to me ; but he 
was not quick at learning. Bellaal was a thick-set, sturdy boy of 
fourteen, with rather a savage disposition. 

My favourite was Kinyon (the crocodile), the volunteer. 
This Avas a very handsome negro boy of the Bari tribe, who, 
being an orphan, came to my station, and volunteered to serve 
me at the commencement of the Bari war. 

Kinyon was tall and slight, with a pair of very large, exj^rcss- 
ive eyes. The name Kinyon, or crocodile in the Bari language, 
had been given him because he was long and thin. Both he and 
Amarn were thoroughly good boys, and never received either 
chastisement or even a scolding throughout a long expedition. 

Jarvah Avas also a good lad, who Avent by the name of the 
" fat boy." I should like to have exhibited him at Exeter Hall 
as a specimen of physical comfort. 

Jarvah had a good berth — he Avas cook's mate. His superior 
was a great character, Avho, from the Ioav position of a slave pre- 
sented by the King of the Shillooks, Quat Kare, had risen from 
cook's mate to the most important position of the household. 



220 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIV. 



Abdullah was now the cook! He had studied the culinary art 
under my first-rate Arab cook, who, having received his discharge, 
left the management of our stomachs to his pupil. Abdullah 
was an excellent cook and a very good fellow ; but he was dull 
at learning Arabic. He invariably distinguished cocks and hens 
as " bulls " and " women." 

The last and the smallest boy of the household was little 
Cuckoo (or Kookoo). 

Cuckoo was a sturdy child of about six years old : this boy had, 
I believe, run away from his parents in the Bari during the war, 
and had come to Morgian our interpreter, when food was scarce 
among the tribe. Following the dictates of his appetite, he had 
been attracted by the savoury smell of Abdullah's kitchen, and 
he had drawn nearer and nearer to our establishment, until at 
length by playing with the boys, and occasionally being invited 
to share in their meals. Cuckoo had become incorporated with the 
household. 

Abdullah and the six boys formed the native domestic corps. 
My wife, who was their commanding officer, had them all dressed 
in uniform. They had various suits of short, loose trousers reach- 
ing half-way down the calf of the leg, with a shirt or blouse 
secured at the waist with a leather belt and buckle. These belts 
were made in England, and were about six feet long ; thus they 
passed twice round the waist, and were very useful when travel- 
ling, in case of a strap and buckle being required suddenly. 

Each boy wore the fez or tarboosh. The uniforms were very 
becoming. There was dark blue trimmed with red facings ; ])ure 
white with red facings, for high days and holidays ; scarlet flan- 
nel suits complete; and a strong cotton suit dyed brown for 
travelling and rough wear. 

The boys were trained to change their clothes before they waited 
at the dinner table, and to return to their working dresses after 
dinner when washing up was necessary. In this habit they were 
rigidly particular, and every boy tlren tied his dinner suit in a 
parcel, and suspended it to the roof of his hut to be ready for the 
next meal. 

There was a regular hour for every kind of work, and this 
domestic discipline had so far civilized the boys that they were 
of the greatest possible comfort to ourselves. 

The washing up after dinner was not a very long operation, as 
half a dozen plates and the same number of knives and forlcs, 
with a couple of dishes, Avere divided among six servants. 

Directly after this work, play Avas allowed. If the night were 



Chap, xiv.] 



HONESTY OF THE BOYS. 



221 



moonliglit, the girls were summoned, and dancing commenced. 
During the day, their games were either playing at soldiers, or 
throwing lances at marks, &c. 

Thieving was quite unknown among the boys, all of whom 
were scrupulously honest. The sugar might be left among them, 
or even milk; but none of the boys I have mentioned would 
have condescended to steal. They had been so well instructed 
and cared for by my wife, that in many ways they might have 
been excellent examples for lads of their class in England. 

The girls and women did not appear to so much advantage. 
These comprised old Karka, young Dam Zeneb, Sallaamto, 
Fad-el-Kereem, Marrasilla, and Faddeela. They had learnt to 
wash, but could never properly fold the linen. Ironing and 
starching were quite out of the question, and would have been as 
impossible to them as algebra. Some of these girls were rather 
pretty, and they knew it. In moral character Dam Zeneb and 
Sallaamto were the best, Fad-el-Kereem was the most intelli- 
gent, but she was a young woman of strong passions, either for 
love or war, and required peculiar management. 

They were all dressed in similar uniforms to the boys, with 
only a slight difference in the length of their blouses. 

We had sent little Mostoora to the care of Djiaffer Pacha at 
Khartoum to be educated, before we left Tewfikeeyah. That 
clever little creature had learnt English and Arabic sufficiently to 
converse, and although not far removed from infancy, she was 
more intelligent than any of the adults. She was much too young 
for a long voyage . . . Everything was ready for the start. I 
left written instructions with the colonel, Raouf Bey, also with 
Mr. Higginbotham, respecting the conduct of the Avorks during 
my absence. I also gave the necessary orders to Mr. ]\Iarcopolo ; 
thus all heads of departments knew their positions. 

I sent off a detachment of 150 men to drive a herd of several 
thousand cattle and sheep to a well-known rocky ravine, about 
six miles south, which Avas to be the rendezvous. 

Before leaving, I made rather a pretty shot with the " Dutch- 
man" from the poop-deck of my diahbeeah at a crocodile basking 
on a sand-bank. The first shot through the shoulder completely 
paralyzed it. A second bullet from the left-hand barrel struck 
only three inches from the first. Lieutenant Baker determined 
to measure the distance ; thus he took the boat with the end of 
a long line, and Ave found it exactly 176 yards. 

The "Dutchman" Avas the best rifle I ever shot with, and 
was quite invaluable throughout the expedition. 



222 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIV. 



I had served out a niontli's rations to the men, and rny last 
instructions to Eaouf Bey were to look Trell after Livingstone, 
and provide for his comfort should he apx^ear during my 
absence. 

On 22nd Januarj^, 1872, we started at 8 a.m., Avhen I took 
leave of my good friend and excellent engineer-in-chief, Mr. 
Edwin Higginbothani. I little thought that we should never 
meet again. 

Tile wind was light and variable, and my diahbeeah soon 
overtook the heavier vessels. In the evening we all joined and 
concentrated our forces at the rocky ravine, with the detachment 
that protected the cattle. 

On the following day, the 23rd January, we all started in 
excellent spirits. The soldiers knew the country, and ever}" one 
appeared to share the enjoyment of adventure. The people had 
learnt to depend upon my guidance, and although the interior of 
the country was unknown to them, they were quite contented 
that I had had a personal experience of the far south, and they 
were safe in my hands. 

The stream was very powerful, and the wind was so variable 
that it was necessary to tow the A^essels. This would have been 
easy work if the river had been deep in all parts, but unfor- 
tunately the water was rather low, and many extensive sand- 
banks necessitated long detours. 

The men were then obliged to wade hip-deep, and to tow the 
vessels round the banks. 

I never saw the people in such high spirits. They Avere not 
contented witli a walking pace, but they raced with each other, 
splashing through the water, and hurrying round the points of 
the sand-banks, until they ones more reached dry ground. Then 
even the women and boys jumped ashore, and laying hold of the 
tow-rope, joined the men in singing; and running forward along 
the liard iDank they made the diahbeeah surge through the water. 

This fun had continued for some hours, and I rejoiced that all 
hearts seemed to have at length united in the work. I had no 
fanatics with me. The black officers were excellent fellows now 
that they were relieved from a certain influence at head-quarters. 
Abd-el-Kader was as true as gold. Monsoor was a Christian, — 
and my " Forty Thieves " were stanch, brave fellows who would 
go through fire. 

Ali Xedjar was, as usual, revelling in strength and activity, 
and was now foremost in the work of towing the diahbeeah. 

A sudden bend in the river had caused a small sand-bank. 



CHAP. XIV.] 



DEATH OP ALI NEDJAR. 



223 



It was necessary to descend from the liigli sliore to tow the 
vessel round the promontory. 

Men, women, and children, jumped down and waded along 
the edge of the bank. 

As the diahbeeah turned the sharp point, I noticed that the 
water v/as exceedingly deep close to the sand-bank, and the 
stream was running like a mill race. 

Fearing some accident to the children, I ordered all who 
could not swim to come on board the diahbeeah. At that time 
the bow of the vessel was actually touching the sand, but the 
stern, having swung out in the stream, might have been about 
fifteen feet from the edge of the bank in very deep water. 

When the order was given to come on board, many of the 
people, in the ebullition of spirits, leapt heedlessly into the water 
amidships, instead of boarding the vessel by the fore part, which 
touched the sand. These were dragged on board with consider- 
able difficulty. 

The boy Saat would have been" drowned had not Monsoor 
saved him. In the confusion, when several were struggling in 
the water, I noticed Ali Nedjar, who could not swim, battling 
frantically with his hands in such a manner that I saw the poor 
fellow had lost his head. He was not three feet from the vessel's 
side. 

My four life-buoys were hung on open hooks at the four 
corners of the poop-deck ; thus, without one moment's delay, I 
dropped a buoy almost into his hands. This he immediately 
seized with both arms, and I, of course, thought he was safe : the 
buoy naturally canted up as he first clutched it, and, instead of 
holding on, to my astonishment he relinquished his grasp ! 

The next moment the strong current had hurried the buoyant 
safeguard far away. A red tarboosh followed the life-buoy, 

floating near it on the surface Ali IN'edjar was gone ! 

— drowned ! He never rose again. . . . 

I was dreadfully shocked at the loss of my good soldier — ho 
had been much beloved by us all. We could hardly believe 
that he was really gone for ever. Who would now lead the song 
in the moonlight nights 1 or be the first in every race 1 

I had C[uickly thrown every life-buoy into the river, as Howarti, 
Mohammed, and others of the best summers had vainly plunged 
after Ali, and were now searching fruitlessly for his body, carried 
away by the powerful current. The boat was sent after them 
immediately, and they were brought on board. 

The mirth of the diahbeeah had vanished ; the general favourite 



224 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XIV. 



had so suddenly disappeared from among us, that no one spoke, 
The women sat down and cried. 

His knapsack and rifle were brought to me, and a list having 
been taken of his clothes and ammunition, I cut his name, 
" Ali," upon the stock of his snider, which I reserved for the 
best man I should be able to select. There was no better epitaph 
for so good a soldier than his name engraved on his trusty rifle. 

That evening every one was sad, and my people all refused 
their food. . . . 

On the following day, the wind and stream being adverse, we 
had much trouble in avoiding the sand-banks, and our progress 
was so slow that we only reached the base of the rocky hill 
Eegiaf. Here I resolved to wait for the heavier vessels, which 
were far behind. 

The natives were now friendly, and on the 25th January, 
Lieutenant Baker accompanied me to the summit of Eegiaf to 
take observations of compass bearings of all the various moun- 
tains and prominent points of the country. 

At the western base of Eegiaf tliere is a very curious rock 
supported upon a pedestal, that forms a gigantic table. 

This great slab of syenite is one of many that have detached 
and fallen as the original mountain decomjDosed. 

I obtained my measuring tape from the diahbeeah, which 
gave the following results : — 



Height from ground 10 5 

Circumference of clay pedestal . . . 69 

This rock must have chanced to fall upon a mass of extremely 
hard clay. The denudation of the sloping surface, caused by 
the heavy rains of many centuries, must be equal to the present 
height of the clay pedestal, as all the exterior has been washed 
away and the level reduced. The clay pedestal is the original 
earth, which, having been protected from the wea'ther by the 
stone roof, remains intact. 

The Earis seemed to have some reverence for this stone, and 
we were told that it was dangerous to sleep beneath it, as many 
people who had tried the experiment had died. 

I believe this superstition is simply the result of some old 
legends concerning the death of a person who may have been 
killed in his sleep, by a stone that probably detached and fell 
from the under surface of the slab. 



Feet. Inches. 



Length of slab 
Ereadth of do. 
Thickness of do. 



45 4 
45 8 
4 9 



CHAP. XIV.] THE GREAT SHEIK BEDDEN. 



223 



I examined the rock carefully, and found many pieces that 
gave -warning of scaling off. Several large flakes, eacli weighing 
some hundredweight, lay beneath the table rock, — upon the 
under surface of which could be distinctly traced the mould of 
the detached slab. 

On 27th January, we arrived with all the vessels at the foot 
of the cataracts, in I^. lat. 4° 38'. This is a very lovely spot, as 
the rocky islands are covered with rich, green forest ; the 
verdure being perpetual, as tlie roots of the trees are well 
nourished by v/ater. 

Our old friend Bedden met us v/ith a number of his people, 
and came on board the diahbeeah. He professed to be quite 
ready to convey our baggage to the soutli, and I proposed that 
his people should go as far as Lobore, about sixty miles from this 
spot, where I knev/ we could procure carriers, as during my 
former journey the natives of Lobore were the only peoj)le v/ho 
could be depended upon. 

Bedden seemed determined to help us, and I really believed 
that our luck had arrived at last, and that I should be able to 
convey tlie carts, together Avith the steamer, to the navigable 
portion of the Mle in N. lat. 3° 32'. 

I determined to be very civil to the great sheik, Bedden ; I 
therefore arranged with him that the Avork should be entirel}'- in 
his hands, and that he should represent the government as my 
vakeel. At the same time, I gave him a grand cloak of purple 
and silver tissue, together with a tin helmet, and turban of 
cobalt-blue serge ; also a looking-glass, and a quantity of beads 
of various colours. 

The country vfas dried up, and there was only scant herbage 
for my large herd of cattle, the half of which I promised to give 
Bedden if he would carry our baggage to Lobore. 

The sheik returned to his village to make arrangements with 
his people for the journey. 

Somehow or other, as he took leave and marched off in his 
grand cloak of silver and purple, I had certain misgivings of his 
sincerity. 

Although great numbers of natives thronged the country, and 
came down to the vessels, there was not one woman or child. 
The absence of v/omen and children is a sure sign of evil inten- 
tions. My wife, whose experience was equal to my own, at 
once expressed her suspicions. Had the natives been honest 
and sincere, their women would assuredly have come to visit her 
from simple curiosity. 

Q 



226 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIV. 



Xot only was there an alDSonce of Avomen and cliildren, but 
the cattle had been driven from the country. There were 
several small cattle zareebas within half a mile of the vessels, 
situated uDon the hi^h ground. I went to visit them, as tlioun;li 
simply strolling for my amusement ; the dung of cattle was fresh, 
sliO"\\dng that the zareebas had been occupied during the past 
night, but the herd had evidently been driven far-away. 

Bedden's people liad never been attacked by the slave-traders, 
as his tribe was considered too powerful ; he had therefore no 
cause for suspicion. 

Unfortunately, my past experience of the Bari natives had 
proved that kindness was thrown aAvay upon them, and that 
nothing could be done with them until their inferiority had been 
proved by force of arms. 

Bedden had never suffered. He had promised to assist ; but 
Mo promise of a native is worth more than the breath of his 
mouth. If he failed me now, the object of my enterprise would 
be lost. I should not be able to move. 

All my care and trouble vrould have been thrown away. 

I was very anxious ; but, v\uthout mentioning my suspicions, 
I ordered all the heavy vessels to cross over to the east side of 
the river, to prej^are for disembarking the carts and general 
effects. 

On the following morning the sheik, Bedden, arrived to visit 
me, with many of his people. I had erected a tent on shore in 
which I could receive him. 

I was struck with a peculiar change in his manner, and after a 
short conversation he asked me, " Why I had sent the vessels to 
the east side ? " 

I replied that they would begin to unload and prepare for the 
journey. ^ 

Who is going to carry all your haggagc ? " continued Bedden, 
as though the idea had occurred to him for the first time. 

I was perfectly aghast at this cool and prostrating question. 
My suspicions had been well founded. 

I explained to Bedden that I had arrived according to his 
exjDress invitation, given some time before, when he had promised 
that his men .^liouLl convey my things as far as Lobore. I 
pretended that his question had now been asked simpbrto amuse 
me, and I begged him in earnest to lose no time in collecting 
his people, as I should require at least 2,000 carriers. 

Bedden continued m a cold, stoical manner, and declared that 
his people were determined not to work for me ; they had 



ciiAP. XIV.] NATIVES REFUSE TO ACT AS CARRIERS. 



227 



never Lefore carried for " The Turks," and nothing would induce 
them to engage in sach a labour. 

I begged him to remember the importance of his promise^ 
upon v\diich I had depended when making all my arrangements 
for the journey. If he failed me now, I should be entirely 
ruined; whereas if he assisted me, as I had relied upon his 
honour, we should ahvays remain the firmest friends, and he 
would be benelited by a grand herd of cattle, and would receive 
most valuable presents. 

He now declared " that his people had taken the matter into 
consideration, and they v^^ere quite determined. They would 
not listen to him, or be persuaded to anything they disliked. 
They never had carried, and they never would." 

I had the two natives with me who had resided for some time 
in our station at Gondokoro. One of these men, named Pittia, 
endeavoured to persuade Bedden to beat his nogara (Ijig drum) 
and to summon his tribe ; he might then, in my presence, explain 
the work proposed, ami his people would see the cows which 
they Vv^ould receive as payment for tiieir labour. 

Bedden looked very ill at his ease ; but after some delay, he 
rose from his seat, and declared his intention of immediately 
beating his nogara. He took leave an 1 departed with his people. 

From my exjierience of Baris, I felt sure that I should never 
see Bedden again. 

He had li irdly left the tent, Avhen Pittia exclaimed, " I will 
follow him and listen to what he says to his people. I believe 
he will tell them not to carry tlie loads." Pittia immediately 
disappeared. 

Many natives had collected on the east side of the river, where 
my vessels had now formed a line along the bank ; I therefore 
crossed over in the dingy to converse with them in the faint 
hope of securing carriers. 

The natives Avere squatting about in small groups, and they 
listened coldl}^ to all I had to say. The only answer I could 
obtain was, that they belonged to Bedden, and if he told them 
to carry our things, tliey would obey; but without his order 
they could do nothing." 

This is the regular African diplomacy when work is required. 
The people say, " We must receive orders from our sheik." The 
sheik says, I am willing, but my people will not obey me." It 
is this passive resistance that may ruin an expedition. 

My first exploration in Africa must necessarily have failed had 
I not been provided with transport animals. The readers of 

Q 2 



228 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XIV. 



"The Albert X'yanza" may remember that I could not obtain 
a single native, and that I started from Gondokoro by moonlight 
Avithout even an interpreter or guide. 

The hoiTible state of the White I^ile had prevented all pos- 
sibility of conveying camels from Khartoum. My carts and 
camel harness were prepared, but the invaluable animals could 
not be transported. I was thus dependent upon such rotten 
reeds as native promises. 

J^o one who is inexperienced in African travel can realize the 
hopeless position of being left with a mass of material without 
any possibility of transporting it. 

The traveller may sit ujDon his box until he stiffens into a 
monument of patience and despair, but the box will not move 
"svithout a carrier. • There is only one method of travelling 
successfully, and this necessitates the introduction of transport 
animals, where the baggage is heavy and upon an extensive 
scale. 

I felt perfectly helpless. My colonel, Abd-el-Kader, advised 
me to seize the sheik, Bedden, and to tie him up until his people 
should have delivered all the effects at Lobore. 

This I might have done, but it might also have occasioned 
Avar, which would prevent the possibility of securing carriers. 
I should also incur the responsibility of having provoked the 
war by an act which, although necessary, could hardly be 
justified according to civilized ideas. 

I had very little hope, but I had so frequently seen a sudden 
ray of good fortune when all had looked dark and cloudy, that I 
went to bed at night trusting that something might turn up in 
our favour to-morrow. 

On 29th January, 1872, Pitiia returned with bad news. 
Bedden had sent me a laconic message that " he should not call 
again, and that his people declined to carry the baggage." 

Pittia explained that the natives had all left the neighbour- 
hood together vvith their sheik, therefore it would be well not to 
allow the soldiers to stray far from camp. 

This was the gross ingratitude exhibited by Bedden and his 
people. In ot only had I scrupulously respected all their property, 
but I had even placed sentries over their tobacco gardens to 
prevent the possibility of theft. 

The absence of the women and children had been a certain 
sign of ill-will. 

It was necessary to consider what should be done. We wore 
perfectly helpless. 



OHAP. XIV.] STRONG SUSPICIONS OF HOSTILITY. 



229 



I had about 2,500 lieaci of cattle and 1,800 slieep. These 
animals were driven every evening to the margin of the river, 
and ViGVQ only 2^i*C)tected at night by a line of soldiers who slept 
around them. 

The conduct of the natives fdled me with susjDicions. The 
sight of f5o large a herd without protection might have excited 
their cupidity. They had expected my arrival with this grand 
supply of cattle, and instead of finding their villages occupied, I 
had observed that their own herds had been driven off for 
concealment ; not a woman or child was to be seen in the country ; 
the natives had refused to carry ; and, lastly, their sheik and his 
people had absolutely absconded. 

In the mean time my cattle were unprotected at night, thu^j, 
should the natives make a sudden attack in the darkness, there 
would be a regular stampede, as the large herd would be seized 
with a panic at the red Hashes of the muskets during tlie attack, 
and they v/ould scatter all over the country, and never be seen 
again. 

The natives had probably considered that, instead of carrying 
our loads, and thereby earning a cow per man, it might save 
them much trouble should they possess themselves of our cattle 
without the necessity of carrying the baggage. 

Erom my knowledge of the brutal character of all Baris, I 
arrived at the above conclusion. 

I at once gave orders to secure the cattle. At a distance of 
about half a mile, there were three small villages on tlie high 
sloping ground, situated about eighty yards apart, and forming a 
triangle, I instructed my men to make an inclosure, by connect- 
ing each village with a strong hedge of thorns. 

The country was generally bare of trees, but fortunately there 
was a grove of heglik not far distant ; and the troops at once 
began to fell tliese trees, and to form fences by laying the prickly 
branches in the position I had selected. 

The " Fort}^ Thieves " were all provided wiih small and sharp 
Canada axes, which they carried under the strap of their knap- 
sacks ; thus forty-eight axes were at work, in addition to the 
heavier instruments belonging to the expedition. 

All the officers and men shared my suspicions, and they worked 
with great alacrity. 

It was just dark by the time that the three fences were com- 
pleted, and the herd of cattle were driven and secured v/ithin the 
inclosure. 

I arranged a guard of sixty men : twenty upon each side of the 



230 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, xiv- 



triangle. They were to remain outside tlie fence, and to keep a 
vigilant look-out. 

This work being over, I returned at night to the diahheeah 
together with Lieutenant Baker. We found dinner ready on the 
poop-deck, where rny ^vife had been rather anxiously expecting 
us. I sent for Colonel Abd-el-Kadcr, and gave him the necessary 
orders for the night. 

My diahbeeali was a charmmg vessel, that had originally been 
sent from Cau^o to Khartoum, when the former Viceroy of Egypt, 
Said Pacha, visited the Soudan. 

The poop-deck was loft^^ and very spacious. This comfort- 
able boat had been my home for two years, and she was kept in 
admirable order. 

There were no mosquitoes during this season in Bedden's 
comitry, although they were very numerous at all seasons at 
Gondokoro, therefore, being relieved from these pests, the enjoy- 
ment of the evening was delightfuJ. 

The night was calm, as usual in these latitudes. Dinner was 
concluded. I was enjoying my evening chibouque with the best 
Ghebbelli tobacco, that soothes many anxieties. The troops were 
for the most part asleep, and all was quiet. My wife was sitting 
on the sof;! or divan, and Lieutenant Baker had been recalling 
some reminiscence of the navy, when several musket shots in the 
direction of the cattle la^aal suddenly startled every soldier from 
his sleep ! 

The sJiots were almost immediately succeeded by heavy firing 
from the whole force stationed at the cattle zareeba. The bugles 
sounded the alarm, and every man was quickly under arms ! 

Having arranged the men in position to defend the vessels in 
case of a general attack, I took twenty men of the Forty Thieves," 
together with a supply of rockets. I was accompanied by 
Lieutenant Baker and most of the Englishmen, and we puslied 
rapidly forward towards the cattle zareeba, where the flashes of 
muskets were distinctly visible. 

As we approached the position, I ordered my bugler to sound 
" cease firing," as I expected to receive a few bullets intended for 
the enemy. 

We were quickly challenged upon arrival at the zareeba. We 
found the cattle all safe ; only a few sheep had been killed by the 
heavy attempt at a stampede when the cows took fright at the 
musketry. 

I was informed that the natives in considerable force had made 
a sudden rush upon the zareeba, and had thrown showers of stones 



CHAP. XIV.] NIGHT ATTACK ON CATTLE KRAAL. 



231 



in order to create a panic among the cattle, whicli tliey expected, 
would "break through the fence and scatter over the country. 

It was fortunate that I had taken the precaution of securing 
them. 

I was determined to clear the neighbourhood before the attack 
should be renewed. The night was dark. I was provided with 
matches and port-fires, and I quickly made an excursion and sent 
several rockets into the nearest villages. The Hale's rockets, as 
usual, rushed through the houses without igniting them ; but a 
few of the powerful Egyptian rockets that are used as fireworks, 
rapidly lighted up the scene, as the descending fire-balls ignited 
the thatched roofs. 

These rockets were fired from an inclined rest of a soldier's 
fixed bayonet. 

Having cleared the neighbourhood, I returned to the diahbeeah 
at midnight. 

I find this entry in my journal : — 

" January 29, 1872. — All the googoos or granaries abound 
with corn. The natives are so rich, both in dliurra and cattle, 
that they will not work, but they are only ready to sleep or steal. 
After all my kindness, they have wantonly attacked my cattle 
without the plea either of hunger or provocation. 

"Whiit can be accomplished with such people? I shall be 
obliged to return the steamer to Ismailia (Gondokoro). It is 
heartbreaking v/ork after all my trouble in having brought her to 
this distant point. 

" i^othing can be done without camels, and these animals can- 
not be brought from Khartoum in the closed state of the river. 

" My original plan included 200 camels, 200 cavalry, and 
fifteen large decked sloops. None of these necessary itoins have 
been sent from Khartoum, thus I am paralyzed." 



CHAPTEE XY. 

THE ADVANCE TO LOBOEE. 

I DETERMINED upou a ucw plan. I knew the direction of Lobore, 
as I had been there during my former expedition ; the distance 
could not exceed sixty miles. 



232 



ISiAIAlLIA. 



[chap. XV. 



If the soldiers could draw the carts, I might yet manage to 
advance, as I should be able to procure carriers on arrival at 
Loborc ; provided always that the natives were as friendly as 
when I left them some years ago. 

It would be impossible to convey the steamer, as I could not 
expect to provide 2,000 carriers ; but I might be able to pene- 
trate south, suppress tlie slave-hunters, establish the government, 
and open up a legitimate trade. - 

The first step necessary was to convey the large herd of cattle 
across the river, which was about 400 yards in width, with a 
very rapid stream. I fully expected that we should be attacked 
by the natives in great force during this operation, which necessi- 
tated a division of my force upon both banks of the Nile. 

The sheep were taken across in vessels, but the cows Avere 
obliged to swim. This passage was very tedious, as the animals 
were necessarily taken in small batches, guided by men who 
swam by their side in the manner already described at Gon- 
dokoro. 

Although the natives were avowedly hostile, they dared not 
face us in the open. They made another attempt by night to 
surprise the cattle kraal, but Colonel Abd-el-Kader immediately 
set lire to a few villages as a response and warning. 

We were occupied four days in passing the cattle across the 
river. During the passage, we lost one taken by a crocodile, 
and three cows -were wantonly seized and drowned by hippo- 
potami. A herd of these creatures happened to be in the way as 
the cows were floating in large numbers down the stream, and 
several were seen to attack the cattle and seize them in their jaws. 
As the hippopotamus is not carnivorous, this was an unexpected 
attack. 

My Englishmen had been busily engaged in erecting the carts, 
greasing the wheels, and attaching the ro23es necessary for haul- 
ing. They were all loaded, and were arranged to be drawn by 
fifteen men each. 

On the evening of the 5th February, while we v/ere at dinner, 
I was astonished by the unexpected mustering of my whole force, 
excepting the " Forty Thieves." The men were without arms 
or officers, but they marched to the margin of the river and 
formed a line two dee^D alongside the diahbeeah, which lay close 
against the bank. 

I knew at once what all this meant, but I pretended to take 
no notice, and I continued eating my dinner, 
i I was quickly interrupted by loud cries from the men. " Wo 



OSAP. XV.] THE TROOPS REFUSE TO DRAW THE CARTS. 233 



can't draw tlie carts ! that's not the work for soldiers ; we'll 
fight, or do anything else you may desire, but we are not camels 
to drag the waggons." 

The " Eorty Thieves " immediately seized their arms, and 
marching quickly to the spot, they formed in line upon tlie hank, 
between the diahbeeah and the men who thus mutinously had 
appeared without their officers. 

I at once ordered the bugle call for all officers, and at the same 
time I sent for the Englishmen to come to the diahbeeah. 

When all had arrived, and the shouts still continued, I rose 
from the table and addressed the troops in Arabic, from the poop- 
deck of the diahbeeah. 

I recalled to their recollection how I had always led them 
successfully through every difficulty, and I assured them that the 
distance to Lobore was trifling, and that we should find good and 
willing natives to convey the baggage, if we could only once 
reach the desired tribe. 

Cries of " there are no good negroes — they are all bad," inter- 
rupted my discourse. I nevertheless continued ; but having a 
thorough knowledge of the African character, and knowing that 
if a negro gets an idea into his head, that idea can only be 
eradicated by cutting the head off, I was not fool enough to 
persist in swimming against a torrent. The " Eorty Thieves " 
now joined the tumult by declaring that " they would draw the 
carts, or do anything that I should command." 

I took immediate advantage of the occasion, and exclaimed, 
"You shall do all that I command. I have changed my 
plans^ and I order you to take the carts to pieces at sunrise 
to-morrow morning. All those who are afraid to follow me 
shall return with the vessels and carts to Gondokoro. ¦ • I never 
turn back j and my lady and I will go on alone with Mr. 
Baker. I only require orderly soldiers, who know their duty ; 
if you have forgotten your duty, you shall return at once to 
Gondokoro." 

This declaration was followed by loud shouts — We won't let 
you go alone; the natives are treacherous; we will follow wher- 
ever you lead. Are we not soldiers of the Sultan % are you not 
the Sultan's Pacha T' 

I had them in hand ; therefore I at once terminated the scene 
by commanding silence. I then gave an order aloud to the 
officers : " Eeturn carts and all baggage on board vessels at sun- 
rise to-morrow. All troops to be ready for the advance." 

" Bugler ! sound the retreat." 



234 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



That peculiar habit of discipline yielded instinctively to the 
sound of the bugle. The officer gave the order, " Eight, turn," 
and the late tumultuous crowd inarched quietly to their quarters. 
Tliis vras ended ; at the same time it was not cheering. 

'}->ly Englishmen, who had been witnesses of this scene, were 
filled with indiguiition. They were men who thoroughly repre- 
sented English determination, and they at once volunteered to 
carry their own baggage if I would only permit them to 
accompany me. 

How often my heart has beaten with pride when I have seen 
the unconquerable spirit of the country burst forth like an 
nnextinguishable flame in any great emergency 1 

I now had to quell the eagerness of my own good fellows, as 
I knew that if " the spirit was willing, the flesh was weak," and 
it would be impossible for Englishmen to carry loads through a 
journey in a tropical country. 

I saw the necessity of the occasion at a glance ; and I gave 
the necessary orders. 

The Englishmen, together with the steamer sections, machinery, 
&c., must return to Gondokoro. They must immediately com- 
mence the construction of the No. 2 steamer of 108 tons and 
204iorse power, as this vessel, being provided with twin screws 
instead of paddles, would be able to pass through the narrow 
channels of the Bahr Giraffe, and communicate with Khartoum. 

I gave the order to prepare to-morrow for a return to Gon- 
dokoro. 

On 6th February, at sunrise, all hands were at work dis- 
mounting the carts, and returning on board the vessels all 
material connected with the steamer, &c. I altered the loads, 
and made arrangements for a new plan of action. 

I had determined to push on to Lobore with one hundred 
men, in heavy marching order, if I could only engage a few 
nati^TS to carry the necessaries for the road. At Lobore I might 
be able to engage a few hundred porters that I should send back 
to the vessels with an escort of fifty soldiers, to bring up sufli- 
cient ammunition and material for an advance south. I knew 
the route. 

It was therefore necessary to assort the baggage : much had to 
be returned to Gondokoro vdth the Englishmen. 

I had a small invoice-book that had been carefully pre^^ared 
by Mr. IMarcopolo, which gave the numbers and contents of 
every box ; therefore the difficidty of assortment was not great. 

All the boxes were of block tin, painted ; thus they could be 



mixv. XV.] PUEPARATIONS FOR AN ADVANCE. 



235 



piled like bricks one upon the other to form a wall. I arranged 
about 400 loads which, w^ere set apart for the carriers, should 1 be 
fortunate in procuring that number from Lobore. 

On 7th February the carts were shipped. All the loads were 
perfected and ready for a start on the following day. Some of 
my men were endeavouring to train a few oxen to carry their 
baggage. 

On 8th February the Englishmen, in very low spirits, started 
for Ismailia (Gondokoro) in two vessels, with ninety urdeps of 
dhurra consigned to Mr. Marcopolo. 

I had arranged that twenty-two boatmen should accompany 
me to Lobore, carrying such loads as were absolutely necessary 
for our party. They would then return together with the fifty 
soldiers who would escort the native carriers to the vessels. 

I had given the Englishmen instructions to commence tlie 
building of the steamer immediately, and to confine their work 
to this vessel until she should be completed. 

Having counted all the loads that were left in charge of Major 
Abdullah, I took a receipt for them, and gave that officer both 
clear and positive orders for his conduct. . 

I left with him 120 men, together with tlie field-piece and 
eight artillerymen. In addition to these men was the crew of the 
]No. 10 steamer, all of whom Avere trained as soldiers. Thus with 
the armed crews of the different vessels he would have a force 
of about 145 muskets. It Avas highly probable that the natives 
would attack tlie vessels and the cattle in my absence, as they 
Avould have remarked the great reduction of force. Although the 
country Avas perfectly open, the ground Avas high and rocky, and 
rapidly rose to about 200 feet above the level of the river Avithin 
a distance of a mile ; thus the natives scattered about the heights 
could ahvays observe our proceedings. 

Before I quitted the vessels, I made every preparation for their 
security. All the metal boxes Avere built into a quadrangular 
breastwork, that Avould form a little fort for a dozen people. 

I moored the vessels in line close to the mouth of a deep flat- 
bottomed ravine, Avhicli, although now dry and about thirty paces 
Avide, had formed the bed of a river during the Avet season. The 
perpendicular banks of this fosse Avould make a grand protection 
for the cattle ; I therefore ordered a fence of thorns to be con- 
structed across the ravine about a hundred yards from the riA^er, 
so as to form a kraal, in Avhich the coavs Avould be confined beloAV 
the level of the country. 

Sixty men Avere to guard the cattle at night ; thirty upon either 



236 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



bank. As this ravine ran at rigiit angles witli tlie river, tlie sixty- 
men wonld enfilade an enemy attacking the vessels, and the 
guard of the vessels would at the same time enfilade an enemy 
should he attack the cattle on the north side. 

I placed the gun in a convenient position about twenty yards 
from the margin of the river, on a piece of hard, flat ground, ex- 
actly opposite the centre of the line of vessels. This would sweep 
the approach in front and upon the left flank. 

I ordered the ofiicer to load with canister containing 250 small 
musket balls. Having served out a dozen "Woolwich tubes, 
instead of the uncertain Egyptian articles, I gave positive orders 
tliat the gun was to be laid for a point-blank range of 200 yards 
every evening at sunset, with the tube in its place, the lanyard 
attached and coiled. A piece of raw hide was to cover the breech 
of the gun to protect it from the night dew. 

Having given every instruction, and impressed upon oflicers 
and men the necessity of vigilance, I ordered IMajor Abdullah, in 
command, to remain in charge of the vessels and cattle until I 
should either send him carriers for an advance, or fall back myself, 
should I be unable to obtain them. 

A tall old man of about seventy, or perhaps eighty years, had 
paid us a visit. From his appearance, and the numerous spells 
hung about his person, I j udged him to be a rain-maker. His 
face was smeared M'itli wood ashes, and there was a good deal of 
the ideal demon in his personal exterior. 

I gave him a blue shirt, and a glass of Marsala wine, thus 
aj)pealing at once to his exterior and interior. 

It is always advisable to make friends with the rain-makers, as 
they are regarded by the natives as priests, and are considered 
with a certain respect. I therefore gave him another glass of 
wine ; or, to be correct, he drank it from a tin that had contained 
preserved provisions. 

This caused him to blink his eyes and smack his lips, and 
the old rain-maker grinned a ghastly smile of admiration. His 
wood-ash-smeared features relaxed into an expression that denoted 
"more wine." I thought he had enough, and there was none 
to spare ; therefore, having opened his heart, I began to ask him 
questions. 

That unfailing key, liquor, had established a confidential flow 
of conversation. The old fellow explained that he knew the 
entire country, and he had no objection to accompany us to 
Lobor^ for a small consideration in the shape of a cow. Ho 
assured me that if he ^v^ere with us, the natives would be civil 



CHAP. XV.] 



THE OLD RAIN-MAKER. 



2.37 



throngliout the journe}'. Beddcn had behaved veiy badly, but 
he had got the worst of it, and the news had spread up the 
country. 

I asked him whether he would keep the rain away during the 
journey, as it v/ould be very unpleasant should the soldiers' kits 
get wet. He immediately blew his rain-whistle that was sus- 
pended to his neck, and looked at me as though I could no 
longer doubt his capabilit}'-. I then sent for a Gennan horn 
from my cabin. This ^\^as a polished cow's horn, fitted with 
brass, which I think had cost a shilling. I begged the old rain- 
maker's acceptance of this instrument, which miglit be perhaps 
superior to his whistle. 

The wine had now so far warmed his old blood, that the 
ancient sorcerer was just in that state of good-will v/ith all 
mankind which made him doubly grateful for so interesting a 
present. He blew the horn ! — again, and again ! He grinned 
till the tears ran down his eyes, and at once suspended the glit- 
tering toy around his neck. He now said, " I am a great sheik; 
there is no rain-maker so groat as I ; you will travel with me, 
and this horn shall keep you dry. Don't trouble yourself about 
the Baris, they won't molest you ; bub start as soon as you 
can." 

We had thus gained a valuable ally and guide. Although I 
knew the direction of Lobore, I should have been obliged to 
travel by compass, therefore I was overjoyed that we had ob- 
tained so experienced an old fellow as the rain-maker. His 
name was Lokko. 

At 3 P.M., on 8th February, we started, old Lokko leading 
the way, and waving a couple of thin, peeled sticks at a refrac- 
tory black cloud that appeared determined to defy his rain- 
ruling powers. A few loud blasts upon the new horn, and a 
good deal of pantomime and gesticulation on the part of old 
Lokko, at length had the desired effect ; the cloud went off 
about its business, and Lokko, having given his face an extra 
rub of fresh v^ood-ashes before starting, looked ugly enough to 
frighten any rain-devil out of his wits. 

My people were heavily laden. At the commencement of the 
journey, an ox that Monsoor had been training, kicked oif its 
load, and went off at full gallop like a wild animal, and we never 
saw it again. Poor Monsoor now shouldered the load that the 
ox had left helpless, and marched thus heavily laden up the 
hill. 

My wife rode "^Greedy Grey," which carried as much as 



23S 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



could be hung upon the saddle. I rode the powerful chestnut 
" Jamoo?." Lieutenant Baker mounted a yeiy handsome light 
chestnut Gazelle," and Colonel Ahd-el-Kader rode the Zafteer. 
The latter was a fine old Arab that I had purchased of a zafteer 
(mounted police) in Cairo. I had ten donkeys which carried 
oiticers' effects, spare ammunition, flour, &c. The twenty-two 
boatmen carried boxes. 

]My Avife and I. with Lieutenant Baker and an advanced 
guard of five of "The Fort}^," followed old Lokko, who led the 
way ; and Colonel Abd-el-Kader and Captain Mohammed Deii 
were with the rear-guard, which drove 1,000 cows and 500 
sheep. The cattle w^ere in the charge of the Bar! interpreter, 
Morgian. 

Our boys and girls all carried loads. Amarn looked like a 
small Eobinson Crusoe, w^ith a tanned sheepskin bag of clothes 
upon his back, upon which was slung the cotfee-pot, an umbrella, 
and various smaller articles, while he assisted himself with a 
long staff in his hand. Little Cuckoo, who, although hardly 
seven years old, was as strong as a little pony, strode along 
behind my horse, carrying upon his head my small travelling- 

Everybody was in the best spirits, as the reaction from despair 
to success was delightful. We were really off at last, and were 
actually on the march to the interior. 

That evening w^e halted at a village on the heights, oidy 
three miles from the vessels. The natives had deserted their 
habitations on our approach, and would not come near us. I 
ordered the troops to save their flour, and to eat from that dis- 
covered in the villao-e, for which on the followino- niorninGj I 
left two cows as a present. They were tied up in the native 
zareeba. The cov/s wT^re worth at least fifty times the flour we 
had consumed ; but I wisiied to adopt this plan throughout the 
journey to Lobore, in order to establish confidence, and to open 
up the road for the future. 

On 9 ill February we started at 5.35 a.m., and marched two 
h»3ULs ;irid a half through a very beautiful undulating country, 
diversiiied with rocks, streams, and handsome parkdike timber. 

We halted at a village called Kdojok, beneath a large fig-tree 
(F/CU-! Iddica). Our old friend Lokko appeared to be perfectly 
well known, and he at once introduced us to the natives, who 
received us without fear or suspicion. At this village I was 
able to hire five natives for as many cows, to ease my psople 
(especially Monsoor) of their loads. 



AMARN, 

The liberated Abyssinian slave-boy. From a photograph by Mayall. 



OHAP. XV.] ON THE WAY TO LOBORE. 



^39 



Thus relieved, we started at 2 p.m., and halted for the night 
at a village named Gobbohr. The day's march was twelve milos. 
ISTorth latitude, by observation, 4° 28'. 

At this spot the natives brought us a great curiosit,y, Avliich 
they had purchased from the Baris of Bulinian. This was no 
less than a shell of 8 J lbs. that had been hred at the Baris by 
our cannon, but the fuze had not ignited. It had been sold to 
the natives of Gobbohr as a piece of iron. 

I inquired the use of such a lump of metal to them. " Oh ! " 
they replied, "we are going to hannner it into molotes (hoes)." 

I explained to them that it was a loaded shell, that would 
explode and blow the blacksmitli and his people to pieces, if he 
were to place it on the hre. Th; y went away with their shell, 
evidently doubting my explanation. 

On the 10th February, having as usual presented the natives 
with two cows, we started at 6 a.m., and marched ten miles. 
The country was even more lovely than before, comprising fine 
rocky scenery and beautiful park-like views. The undulations 
terminated in stony bottoms or water-courses ; the rocks were 
all syenite, gneiss, and large masses of snow-white quartz. 

Although at this season the ground was parched, the trees 
were all vividly green : the contrast of this bright green with 
the yellow turf was very remarkable. 

At 2.50 P.M. we again started, and marched three miles, 
arriving at a village on high ground called IMarengo, in JN". lat. 
4° 18'. Here I met an old acquaintance, who, of course, asked 
me for a cow. This was a very respectable man, named jN^ersho, 
who had, when a boy, been brought up by the Austrian mission- 
aries at Gondokoro. I had met him duiing my former journey 
when in cojnpany with Koorshood's vakeel, Ibrahim. We slept 
at Marengo. The soldiers borroAved the natives' mats, cooking- 
pots, &c., but scrupulously returned everything according to 
orders. 

Fehruary 11. — jSTersho received his cow; and I left two in 
addition for the headman of the village. 

AYe started at 5.35 a.m., and marched ten miles, and halted 
at a small ravine of running water among wooded hills. 

Our old guide, Lokko, v/as at fault. After much trouble we 
succeeded in obtaining two natives, who told us, that in this 
spot they had killed a large number of the slave-hunters' people. 

Other natives soon joined us, and we were led by a difficult 
rocky path through thick forest among the hills for five miles, 
to the pretty open country of Mooge. 



240 



is]\rAiLiA. 



[CH.\J>. XV. 



Tlirougliout tlie journey from the Nile, the country had been 
thicldy populated. At Mooge we camped in a large village on 
the hill. 

Fehruary 12. — "\Ye started at 5.25, and marclied straight to 
Lohore, a distance of fourteen miles. The road was through 
forest, intersected at right-angles with deep watercourses from 
the mountain, called .Forke, about a mile distant upon our left. 
This fine, rocky, and almost perpendicular hill is 2,000 feet 
high. 

On arrival at Lobore we halted beneath a large tree, and 
waited for the cattle, which were some distance in the rear, 
owing to the difficulty in crossing the numerous steep ravines. 
Some work would be necessary on this road to render it possible 
for carts. 

Yfe had thus marched fifty-seven miles from our vessels 
without the necessity of firing a shot, although we were accom- 
panied by so tempting a prize as a large herd of cattle and 
sheep. 

The natives of Lobore soon began to collect, and the drago- 
man, Wani, shortly appeared, who proved to be an old acquaint- 
ance in my former journey. This man, who had been an 
interpreter when a boy among the traders, spoke good Arabic, 
and we soon felt quite at home. Abbio, the old sheik of 
Lobor6, appeared. This old fellow was half-blind ; but he 
seemed very willing to assist, and, after I had explained the 
object of my visit, he assured me that his people would go to 
the vessels if accompanied by my soldiers, and that I need not 
be uneasy about my baggage. 

The Lobore are not Bari. I was delighted to have passed 
the southern frontier at Moog6, and to have quitted that incom- 
prehensible tribe. The language of the Lobore is a dialect of 
the 11?Ai. 

In the CA'-ening, the cattle arrived with the rear-guard. I had 
requested the old sheik to have a zareeba prepared for them ; 
this was quickly accompUshed, therefore an ox was slaughtered 
as a reward for all those Avho had worked at the inclosure. 

On 13tli February " we held a regular market for the purchase 
of flour in exchange for sheep and goats. Many of these useful 
little anini.xls were sickly, owing to the marches in the hot sun, 
which had created intense thirst. Upon arrival at streams upon 
the route, they had drunk too greedily, and some had died of 
inflammation. 

" The natives purchased live goats at the rate of about 30 lbs. 



CHAP. XV.] 



THE LOBORE NATIVES. 



241 



of flour. This Avas an equal cxcliango in live woiglit of the 
animal ; a pound of Hour for a pound of goat. 

" February 14. — The whole country turned out to hunt, and 
the natives returned in the evening, having only killed two 
butfaloes and a few small antelopes. Even the small boys are 
armed in this country with bov/s and barbed arrows, with which 
they shoot remarkably well. 

February 15. — The old sheik, Abbio, accompanied by Wani, 
appeared early, together with a coixsiderable number of natives. 
They selected 396 cows from my z ireeba, and a similar number 
of men promised to start to-morrow with lift}' soldiers to convey 
the material from the vessels. 

February IG. — After some delay the natives assembled, and 
with horns blowing and much shouting and whistling, they at 
length started, together with our return sailors, and an escort of 
fifty soldiers. 

" I shall thus, after much care and anxiety, be able to push on 
with a quantity of goods sufficient to open the path and to estab- 
lish relations with the equatorial countries. I shall have 212 
troops and a good supply of ammunition, goods, and cattle : thus 
there should be no insurmountable difficulty. 

" I wrote to Mr. Higginbotham, also to Mr. Marcopolo, and 
sent the letters inclosed in a bottle. 

February 17. — A slight shower fell this morning. The sheik 
of Mooge arrived to see mo last evening, and presented a fat goat. 

" I am trying to persuade him and old Abbio to join in cutting 
the cart-road through the forest from IMooge. I gave Abbio a 
mixture of sulphate of zinc for his eyes, and put a mustard plas- 
ter on Wani the interpreter's stomach. At first ho said it was 
of no use, as it only felt like cold water, but when it began to 
burn, he was greatly amazed, and said the cold water had turned 
to fire. 

I then physicked Colonel Abd-el-Kader and ]Monsoor, both 
of whom were overheated. 

" A judicious present of a few blue shirts to certain headmen 
put every one in good humour. 

February 18. — I took a stroll for some miles in the forest 
accompanied by Lieutenant Baker. Game was very scarce, but 
we at length came upon a fine herd of tetel (Antelope Bubalis). 
These having been disturbed by the noise we had made in walk- 
ing over loose stony ground, dashed through the open forest, 
about 120 paces in my front. I shot one through the slioulder, 
and upon running up I found it in the act of falling. 

R 



242 



ISIMAILIA. 



[chap. xy. 



I then heard a shot from Lieutenant Baker on my left, to 
-whom my shot had turned the antelopes. He had killed a A^ery 
large bull by a good shot in the neck. 

" This luck ^\vas a Avindfall for the Lobor6 natives who had 
accompanied us ; and a man immediately started off for assistance, 
as many men were required to transport the flesh and hides of 
such large animals. 

^' Fdrruaru 19. — The natives begged that we woidd accom- 
]3any them to hunt, and they started with a considerable party. 

" Having formed a long line like skirmishers, with intervals of 
about ten yards between each, they ad^'anced with their bows 
prepared, and the arrows on the string, ready for a shot on the in- 
stant should game start on foot. There were many boys of about 
twelve years old, all of Avliom were armed with bows and arrows, 
and they advanced in the same line Avith the men. There were 
too many people, and the game became scared; so that after a long 
wall%:, we returned to camp without having fired a shot. 

" I found some very curious flowers, which issued from the 
ground in j)ods, without leaves ; these burst and threw out beau- 
tiful compact silk balls in great numbers, not half of which could 
be returned to the pod that had scattered them. 

" On 22nd Februiiry we had purchased and stored, in expecta- 
tion of the arrival of the troops, 3,7-40 lbs. of flour. 

" I was determined to carry a large supply to the south, as the 
country had in some places been depopulated by the slave- 
hunters. 

Fehriiavy 23. — I went out with Lieutenant Baker, accom- 
panied by some natives, and travelled over very likely ground, 
composed of forest, glades, ravines full of bamboos, &c., until we 
reached the base of Gebel Forke. 

" We had passed over several miles and had only seen a few 
small antelopes, when upon ascending some rising ground in the 
very open forest, we caught sight of a herd of tetel bounding 
along through some high grass towards some low, rocky hills, a 
few himdred yards distant. There were many large trees grow- 
ing out of the clefts of the rocks, and I proposed that Lieutenant 
Baker should go round the hill on my right, while I should creep 
quietly over the summit of the rocks, as I expected we should 
And the antelopes standing in some sheltered glade. 

" AVhen I arrived at the base of the small hill, which was not 
higher than seventy or eighty feet, and was composed of large 
masses of granite, I carefully ascended, without making the 
sliglitest noise. 



OHAP. XV.] 



SHOOT THREE FINE PIGS. 



243 



" On arrival at the denuded summit, I was well concealed by a 
detached block of granite that lay upon a flat weather-worn 
surface of the same rock. 

" I raised my head, and looked in vain for the antelopes. The 
ground was a beautiful park, characterized by numerous masses 
of granite, like ruined castles, among trees of all shades of green. 
The ground was covered with young grass about six inches high, 
which had sprung up after the annual fire that had destroyed the 
last year's dry herbage. 

" I could see no game. Presently I observed the native, who 
was a few yards on my left, making eager gestures, and pointing 
with his finger in order to direct my attention. I at once per- 
ceived a family of wild pigs which had emerged from some bush, 
and were quietly feeding along the glade, so that they Avould 
shortly pass in front of me within sixty yards. 

" The natives love pork beyond all other flesh, thus I had a 
good opportunity for showing them a little treat. With a quick 
right and left shot I knocked over two pigs, and reloading the 
Dutchman" in a few instants, I rolled over a boar that had 
galloped ofi" to about 120 yards' distance. This animal recovered 
itself and got away to some place of cover. 

Upon the arrival of Lieutenant Baker and the natives, we 
tracked the blood for about 300 yards to a small plot of high 
grass that had escaped the fire. I knew that we must find the 
wounded boar in this retreat. I therefore ordered the natives to 
beat it out. The boar soon broke cover and galloped off along 
the open, but quickly rolled over as a shot from the " Dutchman " 
struck it behind the shoulder. The natives were delighted with 
the success of the rifle, as it had produced three fine pigs for 
their service within a few minutes. 

" Febmary 24. — The whole of the troops and baggage from 
the vessels arrived safely to-day, together with the cattle and 
sheep, thus all my arrangements have, thank God, speeded, and I 
am now in possession of my force and material." 

Major Abdullah delivered his report. As I had expected, he 
had been attacked in great force by the natives after my 
departure. The Baris, as usual, had employed treachery, which 
had very nearly succeeded. 

A day or two after I had left the vessels, several natives had 
desired to communicate with Major Abdullah. These men declared 
that they had nothing to do with Bedden, and that all the Baris 
of the east side of the Mle desired peace. 

It would have been natural to suppose that after so recent an 

R 2 



244 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



example of treachery on the part of Eedclen, Major Abdullah 
would have been keenly suspicious; he was nevertheless deceived 
by the specious promises of the wily Baris. This officer knew 
my wish for peace and good- will, and he trusted to be able to 
assure me, that after my departure he had been able to establish 
amicable relations v\dtli our late enemies. 

The messengers returned to their villages, and natives visited 
the camp Avith fowls, tobacco, and various articles for sale. The 
soldiers were ready purchasers, as they were well supj)lied witli 
beads, zinc mirrors, and various trifles which they had recently 
obtained from the government magazines. The fault of my men 
lay in their extravagance, and they usually spoiled a market by 
offering too much. The trade commenced vigorously, and the 
now peaceable Baris thronged to the vessels, and mixed freely 
with the officers and troops. 

On the night of February 17, 1872, the troops were fast asleep. 
Confidence had been thoroughly established, and there was no 
apprehension of coming danger. My officers and men were care- 
less of precautions ; the sentries were nearly all asleep. The 
cannon had been loaded with shell instead of canister. The 
Woolwich tubes had been put away so safely that they could not 
be found when wanted. The gun had not been sighted for close 
distance, neither had any of my most positive instructions been 
carried out. The artillerymen were sound asleep upon their mats 
around their neglected gun. 

I have already described the tactics of Bari night attacks. There 
can be no doubt that their scouts must have crept close to the 
camp, and must have returned to the main body without having 
been observed by the sentries. The report that all were asleep, 
or off their guard, had been delivered. 

It is supposed that some thousands of the enemy moved 
cautiously forward, concealed by the darkness, upon ground that 
otherwise could not have admitted a stealthy approach. 

Fortunately for the expedition, one or two of the cattle sentries 
were awake, otherwise the entire force must have been massacred. 

The Baris crept forward without being observed, until they 
arrived near the silent and sleepy camp. Then with sudden 
shrieks and yells they rushed forward in a mass upon the 
unsuspecting troops ! 

A slight impediment may check an assault during the darkness 
of night. The only protection to the position was a simple line 
of thorn branches laid in a row about twenty paces in the front, 
running parallel with the river. The naked legs of the first lino 



CHAP. XV.] ATTACK UPON MAJOR ABDULLAH. 



245 



of the enemy must have become entangled in this unseen 
obstruction for a few seconds, which caused sufficient confusion 
to destroy the momentum of the first rush forward. 

Tlie sentries by the ravine immediately fired, and the sixty 
men who formed the cattle guard quickly responded, and poured 
a fire into the enemy's flank. 

The delay caused by the thorns was only momentary, but it 
had been sufficient to allow the troops to awaken and to clutch 
their muskets. Here was a glorious opportunity for the gun, if 
loaded with canister and ready at point-blank range ! 

The enemy were already at the muzzle. The Egyptian 
artillerymen forsook their piece and fled ignominiously to the 
vessels for protection. Only one fine fellow had stood by the gun, 
and he pulled the lanyard Avhen the crowd of natives were 
almost upon him. Where were the unfailing English tubes 1 An 
Egyptian tube had been placed in the vent in spite of all my 
orders. It missed fire ! 

The gun that should have swept a clear road through the 
enemy was silent, and the gallant soldier who alone had stood 
faithful at his post was immediately speared through the body, 
and fell dead. The gun Avas in the hands of the Baris. 

The troops, seized with a panic, fled on board the vessels, 
where they were with difficulty rallied by their officers so as to 
open fire from the protection of the banks of the river. 

The Baris were prepared with fire to burn the ships ; which 
they not only succeeded in throAving Avithin the vessels, but they 
killed an unfortunate Avoman Avith a lance, Avho Avas on the fore 
part of a noggur. 

Troops had rushed into the cabins and upon the poop-deck of 
my diahbeeah, from which they now opened fire upon the enemy 
who were at the same time exposed to a flank fire from the sixty 
cattle guards. This checked the advance, and the major, 
Abdullah, succeeded in leading his men forAvard and recapturing 
the gun. At length a tube Avas found and fitted in the vent. 
Fortunately the Baris Avere iguorant, and the lanyard Avas lying 
by the gun. Another tube failed, but after some delay, the gun 
at length spoke, but unfortunately not with canister. 

It Avas already too hot for the Baris, Avho Avere betAveen tAVO 
fires, and a fcAV shots from the cannon settled the affair and 
determined the retreat. 

I could not have believed in such negligence and folly had 
I not had a long experience of Egyptian troops, Avhether broAvn or 
black. These people can generally be surprised, unless their 



24G 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



commanding officer is vigilant and most severe. Little or no 
dependence can be placed on tlie non-commissioned officers; 
these are ignorant, thonglitless people, who having learnt from 
their Mohammedan teachers to trust themselves to God, v/ould 
seldom remain awake unless kept to their duty hj their superior 
officers. 

On the morning following this attack, the big drums of the 
natives were sounding in all directions upon both sides of the 
river. Thousands of Baris had congregated u]3on the various 
heights, and it appeared that a general attack would be renewed 
upon the camp. 

It was not considered safe to drive the cattle out to pasturage. 

There can be no doubt that with a force of 145 men, Major 
Abdullah should have anchored his vessels a few 3'ards from the 
shore, and have then made a vigorous attack upon the Baris. 
He was provided with Hale's rockets in addition to the field- 
piece ; and he shoukl have given the enemy a severe example. 

Instead of assuming the offensive, he remained inactive, which 
so encouraged the enemy that they gathered from every quarter, 
and naturally concluded that the troops had received a panic 
from the night attack. 

At this critical time, tlie scarlet uniforms of my fifty men 
appeared in the rear of the natives, together vnth. 400 of the 
Lobore. Some of my men belonged to the " Forty Thieves ; " 
and the Baris upon seeing the arrival of so powerful a re- 
inforcement, immediately dispersed, with much blowing of horns 
and whistles in defiance of Major Abdullah. 

It was declared that the Baris had sufi'ered severely during 
the night attack ; but I had ceased to pay much attention to 
the official reports of the enemy's losses, which were always 
exaggerated. 

Between the river and Lobore, tho troops had marched without 
opposition, and they had followed my instructions by leaving 
cows for payment at every night's halting-place. 

I now divided the flour into loads of sixty pounds each, 
packed in baskets covered with raw hide. 

I thus carried 3,600 lbs. by sixty porters. My troops were 
now relieved from much weight, as I engaged 500 natives for 
the journey to the interior ; at the same time I ordered every 
soldier to carry six poimds of flour in addition to his knapsack 
and accoutrements. Every one of my men was provided with 
a small tanned goatskin stripped from the animal (like a stocking 
from the leg) and secured at one end lilvc a bag. These little 



CHAP. XV.] 



A DESERTER. 



247 



cliorabs, or travelling sacks, were most convenient, and were well 
adapted for carrying flour, as tliey were casi]}^ strapped to the 
top of the knapsack. 

I lost no time in preparing for a move forvfard. Wani the 
interpreter was invaluable, as he superintended all the arrange- 
ments necessary for collecting the carriers. 

The cattle Avere confined within the kraal waiting for selection. 
About 1,000 natives assembled, and they were allowed to enter 
the zareeba and choose their cows, in parties of four at one time, 
to prevent confusion. 

This was a tedious operation, as the Lobore carriers were 
almost as particular in tlieir selection of cattle as ladies are 
supposed to be in the choice of their dresses, 

Fehruary 27. — The Lobore were exceedingly quiet and orderly 
in their conduct, and 500 cows having been received by as many 
natives, they returned to their homes to make arrangements for 
the journey to Eatiko. I find the following extract in my 
journal of this date : — 

" The Lobore will be useful allies as they are enemies of the 
Bari, and their country is Avell situated, lying between Eari and 
Madi, on the route to Fatiko ; thus they will be ready as carriers 
for both ends of the line. 

If I can obtain eighty camels from Khartoum, I can get the 
steamer along without any serious difficulty, as the Lobore 
natives can be engaged to make the road ; but nothing can 
prosper until a regular camel transport service shall be estab- 
lished. 

I am sadly in want of troops and European officers. There 
should be 200 men in four parties stationed at intervals along 
the line to direct the natives in opening the road. 

" A soldier deserted and ran away with his arms and ammu- 
nition to some distant village. I immediately called Wani and 
the old sheik Abbio, to whom I explained that I should hold 
them responsible if the deserter were not captured. They ecnt 
out natives in all directions in search. 

" Fehruary 28. — The natives returned, saying they had found 
the deserter about half a march distant, but they could not seize 
him alive, as he threatened to shoot them; at the same time they 
were afraid to kill him, as he was my soldier. 

I immediately sent a sergeant and three men of ' The Forty ' 
to take him prisoner. 

" Li the evening tlie soldiers returned, having cnptured the 
deserter. I left him in irons to be kept at hard labour by the 



248 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



sheik Abbio at Lobore, until I should return to the country. 
This is a good lesson to the troops. 

" The natives had a grand dance to-day ; the men and women 
as usual naked, leaping, and yelling wild songs to an extraordi- 
nary accompaniment of music, produced by beating a long stick 
of extremely hard wood with a short stick of the same substance. 
Some of the girls were pretty, but being smeared with red ochre 
and fat, they were not attractive. The natives were very civil, 
and although at least a thousand were present, they immediately 
made room for me upon my arrival, that I might have a good 
place to Avitness their performance."' 

I was much struck with a simple arrangement made use of by 
the old people to support the back in lieu of an arm-chair. Each 
person had a cord knotted by the ends so as to form an encQess 
loop or hoop. The size depended upon the measurement required, 
so that if the hoop were thrown over the body when in a sitting 
posture upon the ground, Avith the knees raised, the rope would 
form a band around the forepart of the knees and the small of 
the back, which would thus be supported. 

The Lobore are great workers in iron, which is used generally 
in the manufacture of ornaments. Large rings of this metal are 
worn round the neck, and upon, the arms and ankles. IMany of 
these ankle-riugs are of extreme thickness, and would suffice for 
the punishment of prisoners. I was interested with the mechan- 
ical contrivance of the Lobore for detaching the heavy metal 
anklets, which, when hammered firmly together, appeared to be 
hopeless fixtures in the absence of a file. 

I required several irons to construct the manacles for the 
deserter, thus I had purchased the massive ornaments which had 
to be detached from the ankles of the owner. 

The man sat upon the ground. A stick of hard, unyielding 
wood was thrust through the ring beneath the ankle, so that each 
end of the stick rested on the earth. A man secured one end 
by standing upon it, Avhile another placed a stone upon the stick 
thus secured, which he used as a fulcrum. The lever employed 
was a piece of abdnoo.^, which worked upon the stone, and 
pressed down the base of the ring at the same time that it 
opened the joint sufficiently to allow it to be passed over the thin 
portion of the leg. 

I never saw this ingenious application of the lever among 
other tribes than the Lobore. The usual method among the 
IMadi is far more simple, but requires a certain number of men, 
and places the patient in an uncomfortable position. A rope is 



CHAP. XV.] DISHONESTY OF THE NATIVES. 



249 



fastened to eacli side of tlie ring, npon wlncli a number of men 
haul in opposite directions until they have opened tlie joint 
sufficiently to detach it from the leg. 

On 29th February we were ready for the start. The loads 
were all prej^ared and arranged in separate divisions of twenty 
each, under the charge of selected officers and men. 

Tlie big nogara had sounded, the natives collected, and each 
man stood by his load ; thus twenty-five gangs of twenty each 
should have stood in line. 

I now discovered that the vaunted honesty of the Lobore was 
of the same order as that of other negroes. Five hundred cows 
had been given to as many natives, for all of which the sheik 
Abbio had declared himself responsible. The big nogara sounded 
in vain. After waiting for some hours, and sending numerous 
messengers to as many villages, only 4-33 carriers could be 
mustered ; thus sixty-seven had eloped with as many cows ! 

jNo one can imagine the trouble of such a jourriey with so 
long a retinue of carriers, most of whom are dishonest, and only 
seek an opportunity to abscond upon the road. 

The Lobore are immensely powerful men, and they carried 
the boxes of Hale's rockets as single loads, although weighing 
upwards of seventy-two pounds. At the same time they quarrelled 
among themselves as to the choice of parcels, and I could with 
difficulty prevail upon them to carry the zinc boat, although it 
did not exceed 1301bs. Four men actually refused to touch it, 
as it sat uneasily upon their heads. 

This handy little vessel was made of zinc upon an iron frame- 
work, and would contain four people upon a pinch, but would 
easily convey three across a river. I had arranged it upon two 
stout bamboos so adjusted that four men should have carried it 
with ease. The natives demanded eight, but I at length com- 
promised for six. 

The delay caused by the non-appearance of the sixty-seven 
carriers was extremely dangerous, as it increased the chance of 
desertions. Already many had volunteered to search for their 
missing friends, which would have resulted in a search for them 
also, until my body of carriers would have melted away. 
. Fortunately I had made a considerable allowance for desertions 
on the road, and I could manage to start with the assistance of 
the soldiers and their wives, among whom I divided many 
baskets of flour. 

At 3.25 P.M. we started. 

There was no danger now that we had passed the Bari tribe, 



250 



ISMAILIA. 



[CilAP. XV. 



therefore we cou.ld pusli on with an advance guard of five j^icked 
men of " The Fort}^/' who always accompanied us, and leave the 
charge of tlie march and baggage to Colonel Abd-el-Ka^ler and 
the various officers. 

We accordingly marched, at four miles an hour, through a 
rocky and hilly country, generally wooded, which would have 
been an awkward position if held by an enemy. 

At 6 P.M. we halted at a rocky ravine where water had been 
expected by our guide. To our dismay we found it nearly dry, 
and it was necessary to dig temporary wells in the sand to 
procure a supply for ourselves, while the horses were forced to 
content themselves with the impure pool. 

It quickly became dark, and the troops and baggage were far 
behind. We therefore gathered wood and made a blazinsc fire to 
shoAv our position ; at the same time a bugler and drummer who 
had accompanied us, made as much noise as possible from the 
summit of a small hill. 

At 7.30 P.M. the cattle arrived by torchlight, together with the 
troops and baggage. Some of the Lobore carriers had abeady 
deserted on the road, which had caused much delay. 

We had marched nine miles, but it was absolutely necessary 
to send four men back to Lobore, to insist upon fresh carriers 
being immediately sent to replace the runaways. 

On March 1 we started at half-past six a.m., after a terrific 
scramble for loads by 400 Lobore carriers, who rushed in and 
tugged and wrestled for their packages like wolves over a carcase. 
Boxes were turned ujDside dov/n, and carried in that manner 
with an utter disregard for the contents. 

The inverted canteen was discovered upon the head of a brutal 
Lobore, whose body was being basted witli Cognac and gin tliat 
showered from the loosened stoppers of the decanters. 

I never saw such a wild pack of savages; they were only fit 
to carry the elephants' tusks of the traders; but any civilized 
baggage ran a risk of instant destruction. 

The old sheik, Abbio, had given me liis son to keep order 
among the people. This young man was about twenty-seven 
years of age, but, although respectable in appearance, he did not 
appear to have the slightest control over his people, and he 
regarded their desertions with seeming indifference, 

I had a strong suspicion that lie might quietly abscond at 
night, in which case every man might instantly follow his 
example, I therefore ordered a light thong of leather to l)e 
attached to the iron collar worn as an ornament upon his neck, 



CHAP. XV,] 



THE ASTJA RIVER. 



251 



and I trusted liim to the surveillance of a couple of soldiers told 
off as his guard of honour. 

We marched south for sixteen miles through a fine country of 
hills and low forest, where the villages of the Madi had been 
mostly destroyed by the slavediunting parties of Abou Saood. 

We passed large tracts of land that had formerly been in a 
high state of cultivation, and the charred remains of numerous 
villages bespoke the desolation caused by these brigands of the 
White Nile. The road was well watered by many small streams 
in deep gorges, until we descended to the Asua river. This was 
just twenty- five miles from our camp at Lobore, in latitude N., 
by observation, 3° 43'. 

We happened to arrive at the spot where the river Atabbi 
joined the Asua. At this junction the Atabbi was perfectly 
clear, while the Asua was muddy, which proved that heavy rain 
had fallen in the Madi and Sliooli countries, while the weather 
was dry in the mountains of Obbo. 

The Asua flowed through a tine forest, but although the water 
was muddy from recent rains, the volume at this season was 
confined to a portion of the bed, in the deepest parts of which 
it did not exceed two feet six inches. The bed from bank to 
bank was about 120 yards in width, and the maximum rise of 
the river was about twelve feet. During tlie wet season this is 
a frightful torrent that acts as a barrier to any advance or retreat 
of troops encumbered with baggage. 

Having waded through the river, we halted under the shady 
trees on the south side; here there was excellent herbage for the 
cattle, as the young grass after the annual fires was now about 
eight inches high, upon the rich soil near the river's bank. 

Whenever Ave halted during daylight, I took a stroll with the 
rifle, accompanied by Lieutenant Baker. 

We walked for soin(3 time along the banks of the river uj) 
stream Avithoufc seeing any gamo, and I was struck with the 
absence of tracks of the larger animals, which coincided with my 
remarks on the Asua river many years previous, when. I crossed 
it about thirty miles higher up, on my route from Latooka to 
Shooa, 

I expected to return without seeing game, when we suddenly 
spied a few waterbuck in the sandy bed of the river, about 300 
paces distant. 

We made a good stalk, but I only wounded the animal at 
which I fired at about 150 yard 5, and they galloped ofl" through 
the open forest. I heard the bullet from the left hand barrel 



252 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



strike a tres stem, ^vllicll saved the antelope, but having quickly 
reloaded, I had a clear and steady shot at a long range as the large 
buck suddenly stopped and looked back. I put up the last sight 
for 250 yards and took a full bead. To my great satisfaction 
the waterbuck with a fine set of horns dropped dead. I could 
not measure the distance accurately as we had to descend a 
rocky bank, and then, crossing the bed of the Asua, to ascend 
the steep north bank before we arrived at tolerably level ground. 

Upon reaching the animal, I found the bullet in the neck, 
where it liad divided the spine. I guessed the distance at about 
240 yards. Some of our Lobore natives, who had kept at a 
distance behind us, now came up, and in a short time the noble 
waterbuck was cut up and the flesh carried into camp. This 
species of antelope, when in good condition, weighs about thirty 
stone (cleaned). 

On March 2 we started at 6 a.m., and marched at a rapid rate 
along a hard and excellent path, which inclined upwards from 
the river for about eight miles. 

The bush was very open, and in many portions the country 
was a succession of deep dells, which in the wet season were 
covered ^vith high grass, but at this time the young grass was 
hardly three inches liigh, having sprouted after the recent fires. 

From an altitude of about 1,000 feet above the Asua river, we 
had a splendid view of the entire landscape. 

On the east, at about fifty miles distant, was the fine range of 
lofty mountains that stretched in a long line towards Latooka. 
On the west, on the left bank of the White JSTile, which now 
flowed almost beneath our feet, was the precipitous mountain Xeri, 
known by the Arab traders as Gebel Kuku. This fine mass of 
rock descends in a series of rugged terraces from a height of 
between three and four thousand feet to the Nile, at a point Avhere 
the river boils through a narrow gorge between the mountains. 
It is in this passage that the principal falls take place which I 
witnessed in my former journey. At that time our path led along 
the rocky bank of the river, and was both difficult and dangerous. 

Eight miles from the Asua river now brought us to the top of 
the pass, and having sto2:>ped for a few moments to take compass 
bearings, we began the somewhat steep descent. 

Walking was preferable to riding, and after a distance of a 
couple of miles had been accomplished, we rounded the rocky hill 
by crossing a ravine upon our right, and the view of the promised 
land burst upon us. 

The grand White Nile lay like a broad streak of silver on our 



OHAP. XV.] FUTURE STEAM TRANSPORT. 



253 



right as it flowed in a calm, deep stream direct from the Albert 
N'yanza ; at this spot above all cataracts. JS^o water had as yet 
been broken by a fall ; the troubles of river-life lay in the future; 
the journey to the sea might be said to have only just commenced. 
Here the entire volume flowed from the Albert N'y^^nza, distant 
hardly one degree ; and here had I always hoped to bring my 
steamers, as the starting-point for the opening of the heart of 
Africa to navigation. ^ 

I was deeply mortified when I gazed upon this lovely view, and 
reflected upon the impossibilities that had prevented my success. 
Had the Whiter ^^ile been open as formerl}^, I should have trans- 
ported the necessary camels from Khartoum, and there would 
have been no serious difficulty in the delivery of the steamers to 
this point. Two or three strong pioneer parties, with native 
assistance, would quickly have bridged over the narrow water- 
courses and have cleared a rough road through the forests as the 
carts advanced. 

It "^vas useless to repine. I still hoped to accomplish the work. 

We now descended into the beautiful plain, to which I had given 
the name Ibrahimeyah, in honour of the father of his Highness 
the Khedive (Ibrahim Pacha). 

This point is destined to become the capital of Central Africa. 

The general depot for the steamers will be near the mouth of 
the Un-y-Ame river ; which, after rising in the prairies between 
Fatiko and Unyoro, winds through a lovely country for about 
eighty miles, and falls into the White Nile opposite to Gebel 
Kuku. The trade of Central Africa, when developed by the 
steamers on the Albert IST'yanza, will concentrate at this spot, 
whence it must be conveyed by camels for 120 miles to Gonclo- 
koro, until at some future time a railway may perhaps continue 
the line of steam communication. 

It is a curious fact that a short line of 120 miles of railway 
would open up the very heart of Africa to steam transport — be- 
tween the Mediterranean and the equator, when the line from 
Cairo to Khartoum shall be completed ! 

The IJo. 10 steamer that I had brought up to Gondokoro from 
Khartoum v/as originally built in England for the mail service 

^ TMs has since been proved correct by the efforts of my successor. Colonel 
Gordon, who carried the 38-ton steamer which I had left at Gondokoro to 
this point above the cataracts, and constructed heratDuftlo on the opposite 
bank. This vessel steamed into the Albert N'yanza Avithout any difficulty, 
and corroborated my assertion that the river was navigable. 

It may be remembered that many geographers had contested the fact 
that the Nile was an eftluent from the Albert N'yanza. 



254 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XV. 



(per Kile) between Alexandria and Cairo, at the time when tlie 
overland route was made by vans across the desert to Suez. This 
steamer had sailed from London, and had arrived complete at 
Alexandria. 

It appears ahnost ira^^ossible that she is now floating at an 
altitude of nearly 2,000 feet above the sea level ; to which great 
elevation she has actually steamed from the Mediterranean. 
Thus, starting from a base line, and producing a line perpen- 
dicular to the sea level of 2,000 feet, she has climbed up the Xile 
to her present high position. 

Accepting the approximate length of the JSTile in all its windings 
from the Mediterranean to JN". lat. 4° 38', at 3,000 miles in round 
numbers ; this will give an average rise or fall in the river of 
nine inches per mile ; which easily explains the position of the 
steamer at her most remote point below the last cataracts. 

I revelled in this lovely country. The fine park-like trees were 
clumped in dark-green masses here and there. The tall dolape- 
palms (Borassus Ethio2)iciis) were scattered about the plain, some- 
times singly, at others growing in considerable numbers. High 
and bold rocks ; near and distant mountains ; the richest plain 
imaginable in the foreground, with the clear Un-y-Ame flowing 
now in a shallow stream between its lofty banks, and the grand 
old IvTile upon our right, all combined to form a landscape that 
produced a paradise. 

The air was delightful. There was an elasticity of spirit, the 
result of a pure atmosphere, that made one feel happy in spite 
of many anxieties. My legs felt like steel as we strode along 
before the horses, with rifle on shoulder, into the broad valley, 
in which the mountain we had descended seemed to have taken 
root. 

The country was full of game. Antelopes in great numbers, 
and in some variety, started from their repose in this beautiful 
wilderness, and having for a few moments regarded the strange 
sights of horses, and soldiers in scarlet uniform, they first trot- 
ted, and then cantered far away. The graceful leucotis stood in 
herds upon the river's bank, and was the last to retreat. 

I selected a shady spot within a grove of heglik-trees for 
a bivouac, and leaving my wife with a guard, and the horses, 
I at once started oft' with Lieutenant Baker to procure some 
venison. 

We returned after a couple of hours, having shot five an- 
telopes. The native name for this part of the country is Afuddo. 
Our present halting-place was thirty-seven miles from Lobor^. 



OHAP. XV.] THE LOBORES KILL A BUFFALO. 



255 



Formerly there were villages in this neighbourhood, but they 
had been destroyed by the slave-liunters. Fortunately I had 
prepared a stock of flour sufficient for the entire journey to 
Fatiko. 

In my last visit to this country I had thoroughly studied its 
features ; thus I felt quite at home, and I knew my route in 
every direction. The mountain of Shooa was distinctly visible, 
where I had camped for four or five months, thus it would be 
impossible for the Lobor^ people to 'deceive me. 

Abou Saood had four stations throughout this lovely district, 
i.e., Fatiko, Fabbo, Faloro, and Farragenia. I was now steering 
for Fatiko, as it was a spot well known to me, and exactly on 
my proposed road to Unyoro. 

On 3rd March, we marched at 6 a.m., and continued along 
the plain towards the rising ground that led to Sliooa. At six 
miles from the halting-place we took bearings : 

Shooa hill, about 35 miles distant, bearing 162J° 
Akiko „ „ 16 „ „ „ 32110 

GebelKuku „ 9 „ „ „ 2991° 

Our course lay towards the S.S.E., beneath a Avall-like range 
of precipitous rocky hills upon our left, in no place higher than 
200 feet. The guides were at fault, and no water could be 
found upon the road. 

A herd of tetel {Antelope Buhcdis) upon our i-ight tempted 
me, and, jumping off my horse, I made a fair stalk and killed a 
fine beast with the ^'Dutchman" at 210 yards. 

Every one was thirsty, as the sun was hot, and the wall-like 
rocks upon our left reflected the heat. At length we discovered 
natives squatting upon the very summits of the perpendicular 
cliffs, and after some trouble we succeeded in coaxing them 
down. Two of these people volunteered to lead us to water, 
and they took us to a steep rocky ravine, in the bottom of which 
was a pool of dirty liquid that had been bathed in by wild 
buffaloes. My men quickly began to dig sand-wells with their 
hands, until the main body of the troops and cattle arrived. 

In about an hour, I heard a great hubbub, with a noise of 
quarrelling and shouting ; every one was running towards the 
spot. It appeared that a wild buffalo, being ignorant of our 
arrival, had suddenly visited his drinking-place, and had thought- 
lessly descended the deep and narrow gorge to drink his evening 
draught. The Lobores had espied him, and they immediately 



255 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XV. 



ruslied down and overwiielmed liim witli lances from the cliffs 
above. There was now an extraordinary scene over the carcase ; 
four hundred men scrambhng over a mass of blood and entrails, 
fighting and tearhig with each other, aud cutting off pieces of 
flesh with their lance-heads, with which tliey escaped as dogs 
may retreat with a stolen bone. 

On 4tli ]\Iarch we started at 6.25 a.m. The advent of tlio 
butfalo was a sad misfortune, as it had supplied the natives with 
sufhciejit flesh to feed them on the road home ; thus thirty 
Lobores had absconded during the night, 

Fortunately we had already consumed many loads of flour. 
I was now obliged to divide two days rations among the troops 
as extra weight. The light loads were then doubled. Brandy 
boxes of twelve bottles were now lashed together, so as to form 
a load of twenty-four. Several boxes of gin had been entirely 
destro3"ed by the savage carriers, who had allowed them to fall 
upon tlie rocks. 

Having crossed the bends of the Un-y-Am6 river twice, we 
halted for the night in fine open forest on the south bank, 
beneath a large tamarind-tree, that yielded an abundant supply 
of fruit for all hands. 

We had only marched ten miles, owiug to the delay occa- 
sioned by the desertion of the carriers. 

On Sth March I led the way, as the Lobort^ guide professed 
ignorance of the route to Eatiko. The fact was, that the 
Lobores had wished on the previous day to take me to Farra- 
genia, which is two da3's nearer than Fatiko. Had I been 
ignorant of the country, we should have been deceived. 

I steered through low open forest, the leaves of which had 
been scorched off by the fire that had cleared the country. 
Neither a village nor the print of a human foot could be seen. 
This beautiful district that had formerly abounded in villages 
had been depopulated by the slave-hunters. 

Having taken the Shooa mountain for a steering point, we 
reached the spot where in former years I had passed five months 
in tlie camp of Ibrahim. This also had been destroyed, in 
addition to all the numerous villages of the mountain. We had 
marched fourteen miles. 

I gave orders that on the morrow all the troops were to 
appear in their best uniforms, as we were only six miles from 
Fatiko, the principal station, where I fully expected to meet 
Abou Saood himself. 



OHAP. XVI.] 



LINE OF MAROH ARRANGED. 



257 



CHAPTER XVI. 

ARRIVAL AT FATIKO. 

On 6th March, 1872, we started from the bivouac at the base 
of the Shooa mountain at 6.10 a.m. 

The troops were in excellent spirits, tlie aii* was fresh and 
cool in this elevated country, the horses had been v/ell groomed, 
and the arms and accoutrements had been burnished on the 
previous afternoon, in order to make a good appearance before 
my old friends the natives of Fatiko and Shooa. 

The bright scarlet uniforms and snow-white linen trousers of 
212 men looked extremely gay upon the fresh green grass, 
which had lately sprung up throughout this beautiful park. 

There was no enemy in this country. From a former resid- 
ence of five months at Shooa, both my wife and myself were 
well known to the inhabitants, and I felt sure that our arrival 
would be hailed with gladness. In my former visit I had been 
a successful hunter, and had always given the flesh to the natives ; 
thus, as the road to a negro's heart is through his stomach, I 
knew that my absence must have been felt, and that the recol- 
lections of past times would be savoury and agreeable. 

I had with me a herd of 1,078 cows and 194: sheep. No 
guard was necessary, and I intrusted the stock to the care of 
the three boatmen, and my Bari interpreter, Morgian 

The line of march was thus arranged : — Myself, .with my wife 
and Lieutenant Baker, on horseback in advance, preceded by 
the guard of live of the " Forty Thieves." Then came Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader and the remaining forty-three, composing the gal- 
lant " Forty." After which came the regiment, all necessarily 
in single file. Then came the baggage with 400 carriers, fol- 
lowed by the herd of cattle. 

All our boys were dressed in their scarlet uniforms, and the 
girls and women generally had dressed in their best clothes. 
Little Cuckoo as usual carried my small travelling-bag upon his 
head, and kept his line with the other boys, all of whom 
assumed an air that was intended to be thoroughly regimental. 

In this Older the march commenced. The distance was only 
six miles. This was as lovely a route as could be conceived. 

Magnificent trees (acacias), whose thick, dark foliage drooped 

s 



258 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. XVI. 



near the ground, ^\eve grouped in clumps, springing from the 
crevices between luige blocks of granite. Brooks of the purest 
water rippled over the time-worn channels cut through granite 
plateaux, and as we halted to drink at the tempting stream, the 
Avater tasted as cold as though from an European spring. 

: The entire country on our left was a succession of the most 
beautiful rocky undulations and deep verdant glades, at the 
bottom of which flowed perennial streams. The banks of these 
rivulets were richly clothed with ornamental timber, the green 
foliage contrasting strongly with the dark grey blocks of granite 
resembling the ruins of ancient towers. 

We travelled along a kind of hog's back, which formed the 
watershed to the west. As we ascended, until we reached a 
large plateau of clean granite of about two acres, we broke upon 
a magnificent panorama, which commanded an extensive view of 
the whole country. 

On the west, we looked down upon the plains through which 
we had arrived, and the view stretched far away beyond the 
Nile, until it met the horizon bounded by the grey outline of 
the distant mountains. 

No one could feel unhappy in such a scene. I trod upon 
my old ground, every step of which I knew, and I felt an 
exhilaration of spirits at the fact that I was once more here in 
the new capacity of a deliverer, who would be welcomed with 
open arms by the down-trodden natives of this country. 

Having descended from the clean plateau of rock, we carefully 
rode across a slippery channel that had been worn by the sandy 
torrents of the rainy season, and once more arrived at level 
ground. We were now on the great table-land of Fatiko. 

Upon our left, a mass of bold ruins, the granite skeleton 
remains of a perished mountain, which formed a shelter from 
the morning sun, tempted us to halt. 

We had thus suddenly appeared upon the greensward of the 
plateau without the slightest warning to the inhabitants of 
Tatiko. About a mile before us stood the large station of Abou 
Saood, which occupied at least thirty acres. On our right we 
were hemmed in by a wall of granite, sloped like a huge whale, 
about three-quarters of a mile long and 100 feet high. The 
southern extremity of this vast block of clean granite was the 
rocky and fantastic hill of Fatiko crested with fine timber. To 
our left, and straight before us, was a perfectly flat plain like a 
race-course, the south end being a curious and beautiful assem- 
blage of immense granite blocks, and groups of weeping acacia. 



CHAP. XVI.] 



ARRIVAL AT FATIKO. 



259 



A large village occupied tlie base of Fatiko hill. . . . The 
bugles and drums sounded "the advance." The echoes rang from 
the hard granite rock as the unusual sound gave the first warn- 
ing of our presence. 

I had dismounted from my horse, and was watching the slaver's 
camp with a powerful telescope, as the bugles sounded and the 
men fell into order. 

A number of people ran out of the camp, and stared at the 
blaze of scarlet uniforms, which must have appeared as a larger 
force than the reality, owing to the bright contrast of red with 
the green turf. 

In an instant there was confusion in the camp. I soon distin- 
guished immense numbers of slaves being driven quickly out, 
and hurried away to the south. The slaver's drum beat, and a 
number of crimson flags were seen advancing, until they halted 
and formed a line close to the entrance of the village. I now 
saw natives rushing wildly to and fro in all directions armed 
with spears and shields. 

Some time elapsed before the cattle and baggage arrived. In 
the mean time I waited, perched on a block of granite, with my 
telescope, watching every movement. There was no doubt that 
our sudden appearance had caused intense excitement. I saw 
men running from the trader's station to the large village opposite, 
at the foot of the hill. 

At length, I observed two men approaching. 

We were not yet ready for a general advance, therefore, as the 
servants and carriers, cattle, &c., fell into order, the band struck 
Tip some Turkish airs, which sounded extremely wild and appro- 
priate to the savagely-beautiful scenery around us. 

In the mean time the two messengers drew nearer. They were 
both filthy dirty, and appeared to be clad in dark-brown leather. 
One man seemed to hesitate, and stood about sixty yards distant, 
and demanded who we Avere. Upon hearing from Colonel Abd- 
el-Kader that it was "the Pacha," and that "he need not be 
afraid," he told us that Abou Saood was at the station, and that 
he would run back with the news. 

The other messenger came timidly forward, until he stood close 
beneath me. jNIy wife was on horseback by my side. 

Can it be possible 1 MoJianuned, my old Cairo servant of 
former years 1 

The grand dragoman of the lower Nile reduced to this ! My 
wife exclaimed, "Ah, Mohammed, I am very glad to see you; 
but how wretched you appear ! " 



260 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



This was too much for the prodigal son ; he seized my wife's 
hand to kiss, and burst into tears. 

Poor Mohammed ! he had gone through many trials since we 
last met. When I left him in Khartoum ill with guinea-worm 
in the leg, he was on his way to Cairo ; but after my departure 
he had been tempted by the slave-traders to re-engage in the in- 
famous but engrossing career, and he too had become a slave- 
hunter. He had never received any pay, as the custom of 
the slavers was to pay their men in slaves. Mohammed had 
never been fortunate in his domestic affairs; he was not a favour- 
ite of the ladies; thus his female slaves had all run away; his 
fortune had walked off, and he was left a beggar, with an 
overdrawn account in slaves. 

Mohammed had never been a good English scholar, but want 
of practice during many years had almost obscured the light of 
his former learning, which was reduced to the faintest glimmer. 

The bugles now sounded the "advance," and we marched for- 
ward in admirable order, with the band playing. 

In the mean time, several natives had approached, and having 
recognized Lady Baker and myself, they immediately raced back 
to the village with the news. 

My men looked remarkably well, and the advance into Eatiko 
was a sight that was entirely new to Central Africa. We were 
in magnificent order for work, with a hardy disciplined force of 
212 men, and a stock of cattle and merchandise that would carry 
us to any direction I might desire. 

This arrival, in such perfect organization, was a fatal blow to 
the hopes and intrigues of Abou Saood. I was actually among 
them, in the very nest and hotbed of the slavers, in spite of every 
difficulty. 

Abou Saood came to meet me, with his usual humble appear- 
ance, as we neared his station ; and he cringingly invited us to 
rest in some huts that had just been prepared for our reception. 

I declined the invitation, and prepared to camp beneath some 
grand acacias, among the granite rocks, about a quarter of a mile 
beyond, where I had rested some years ago. I accordingly led 
the way, until we arrived at a very beautiful spot, among some 
immense granite blocks, shaded by the desired foliage. Here the 
word was given " Halt ! " and the tent was quickly pitched in a 
favom^able locality. 

We were now distant from the j miction of theUn-y-Ame river 
48 miles, from Lobor^ 85 miles, and from Gondokoro 165 miles. 

Abou Saood ordered his people to bring a number of straw- 



OHAP. XVI.] ENTHUSIASM OF THE WOMEN. 



261 



roofs from his station, to form a protection for the officers. The 
men quickly housed themselves in temporary huts, and the cattle 
Avere placed for the night in a regular amphitheatre of rock, which 
formed an excellent position. 

On 8th March, I reviewed the troops, and having given the 
natives warning of my intention, I had a sham-fight and attack 
of the Fatiko mountain. Having fired several rockets at a sup- 
posed enemy, the troops advanced in two companies to the north 
and south extremities of the mountain, which they scaled with 
great activity, and joined their forces on the clean plateau of 
granite on the summit of the ridge. The effect was very good, 
and appeared to delight the natives, who had assembled in con- 
siderable numbers. After firing several volleys, the troops 
descended the hill, and marched back, with the band playing. 

The music of our band being produced simply by a consider- 
able number of bugles, drums, and cymbals, aided by a large 
military bass-drum, might not have been thought first-rate in 
Europe, but in Africa it was irresistible. 

The natives are passionately fond of music ; and I believe the 
safest way to travel in those wild countries would be to play the 
cornet, it possible without ceasing, which would insure a safe 
passage. A London organ-grinder would march through Central 
Africa followed by an admiring and enthusiastic crowd, who, if 
his tunes were lively, would form a dancing escort of the most 
untiring material. T 

As my troops returned to their quarters, with the band playing 
rather cheerful airs, we observed the women racing down from 
their villages, and gathering from all directions towards the com- 
mon centre. As they approached nearer, the charms of music 
were overpowering, and, halting for an instant, they assumed 
what they considered the most graceful attitudes, and then danced 
up to the band. 

In a short time my buglers could hardly blow their instruments 
for laughing, at the extraordinary effect of their performance. A 
fantastic crowd surrounded them as they halted in our position 
among the rocks ; and every minute added to their number. 

The women throughout the Shooli are entirely naked, thus the 
effect of a female crowd, bounding madly about as musical en- 
thusiasts, was very extraordinary. Even the babies were brought 
out to dance, and these infants, strapped to their mothers' backs, 
and covered with pumpkin shells, like young tortoises, were jolted 
about without the slightest consideration for the weakness of 
their necks, by their infatuated mothers. 



262 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



As usual, among all tribes in Central Africa, the old women 
were even more determined dancers than the young girls. Several 
old Yenuses were making tliemselves extremely ridiculous, as 
they sometimes do in civilized countries wheu attempting the 
allurements of younger days. 

The men did not share in the dance, but squatted upon the 
rocks in great numbers to admire the music, and to witness the 
efforts of their wives and daughters. 

The men of Shooli and Fatiko are the best proportioned that 
I have seen; without the extreme iieight of the Sliillooks or 
Dinkas, they are muscular and well knit, and generally their faces 
are handsome. 

The women were inclined to a short statra-e, but were very 
strong and compact. It was singidar, that throughout the great 
Shooli country, of which Fatiko is simply a district, while the 
women are perfectly naked, the men are partially cL)tlied with the 
skin of an antelope, slung across the shoulders, and covering the 
lower part of the body life a scarf. In other countries that I had 
passed, the men were quite naked, while the women were more 
or less covered. 

After the dance, I was visited by several natives Avho had 
known me in former years, among whom was my old guide, 
Gimoro, who had first led me to Unyoro. Another excellent man 
named Shooli now gave me all the intelligence of the country. 
Both these men spoke Arabic. 

It was a repetition of the old story. The country was liaK- 
ruined by the acts of Abou Saood's people. The natives were 
afraid to resist them in this neighbourhood, as every adjacent 
country had been j^lundered, and the women and children carried 
off. Abou Saood had not expected that I could leave Gondo- 
koro; hut he had told the Shooli natives to attack me if I should 
arrive ; thus on the day of my appearance, the natives, being 
ignorant of my presence, had considered the dreaded Pacha must 
he an enemy, until they had recognized my wife and myself as 
their old friends. 

Upon that day, wlicn I had observed the natives running to 
and fro with spears and shields, Abou Saood had told them to 
resist me at once, and he had promised that his people should 
assist the Fatikos ; but when the natives saw our powerful 
force, they had known that an attack would be useless ; they 
had accordingly sent men to discover our intentions, and these 
messengers had reported my return to their country in the 
capacity of Pacha commanding the expedition. 



OfiAP. xvl] we are welcomed BY THE NATIVES. 



263 



M}^ old friends now assured me, in reply to my explanation 
of tliG Khedive's intentions, that the Avhole country would rally 
around a good government, and all that the poor people desired 
was protection and justice. The fact of my return would give 
confidence throughout the country ; and the news had already 
been carried to the great sheik, Eot Jarma, who had never visited 
Abou Saood or his people, but who would quickly tender his 
allegiance to me as the representative of the Khedive. 

I told Gimoro and Shooli to inform the headmen, and the 
people generally throughout the country, of my pacific intentions, 
and to have no fear now that the government was represented, 
as it would be impossible that the atrocities committed by the 
slave-hunters of Abou Saood should recur. At the same time I 
explained, that in about twenty days the contract entered into 
between Agad and Co. with the Soudan government would expire, 
and Abou Saood would be compelled to withdraw all his people 
from the country, which would then remain solely in the hands 
of the Khedive. 

Throughout the subsequent expedition, I could always rely 
upon the fidelity of these two men, Gimoro and Shooli. 

After their departure to spread the good news far and wide, 
I had a long conversation with my old servant, Mohammed, who 
I knew would give me every information respecting the acts of 
Abou Saood and his people, as he had been among them in 
these parts for many years. 

He told me that my arrival at Fatiko was supposed to be im- 
probable, as the Gondokoro natives were known to be hostile to 
the government; therefore it would be impossible to transport 
the baggage. Although the Baris were at war with the govern- 
ment, Abou Saood had about seventy of these natives at Fatiko, 
armed with muskets, in bis employ; thus he was openly in 
league with the enemies of the Khedive's government. 

The report among the slave companies asserted that Abou 
Saood had been in league with Eaouf Bey to frustrate the 
expedition; thus the conspiracy of the officers headed by 
Eaouf Bey, which I had checkmated, was the grand move to 
effect a collapse of the expedition, and to leave a clear field for 
the slave-traders. 

" Up t) the present time, my arrangements have been able to 
overpower all opposition. 

" The success of the corn collection at the moment of the con- 
spiracy was fatal to the machinations of Eaouf Bey, and secured 
me the confidence of the troops. 



264 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XYt. 



"The success of every attack that I have personally com- 
manded has clinched this confidence. 

" The trader's people are discontented with their leaders ; they 
are without clothes or wages. 

" Their parties have been massacred in several directions by 
the natives. JS'early 500 loads of ivory have been burned, 
together with one of their stations, by a night attack of the 
Madi, in which the slave-hunters lost thirty-five killed, and the 
rest of the party only escaped in the darkness, and fled to the 
forests. 

" Thus I come upon them at a moment when they are divided 
in their feelings. A dread of the government is mingled with 
confidence in the arrival of a strong military force, which would 
be auxihary in the event of a general uprising of the country." 

I found several of my old men engaged as slave-hunters. 
These people, who had behaved well on my former voyage, 
confided all the news, and were willing to serve the govern- 
ment. Kamrasi, the former king of Unyoro, was dead, and had 
been succeeded by his son, Kabba Rega. 

Some few of the people of Abou Saood had been on a visit to 
the king M'tese at Uganda. This powerful ruler had been much 
improved by his personal communication with the traders of 
Zanzibar. He had become a ^Mohammedan, and had built a 
mosque. Even his vizier said his daily prayers like a good 
Miissulman, and M'tese no longer murdered his wives. If he 
cut the throat of either man or beast, it was now done in the 
name of God, and the king had become quite civilized, according 
to the report of the Arab envoys. He kept clerks who could 
correspond, by letters, in Arabic, and he had a regiment armed 
with a thousand guns, in addition to the numerous forces at his 
command. 

The Arab envoys of Abou Saood had been treated like dogs 
by the great M't6s(^, and they had slunk back abashed, and 
were only glad to be allowed to depart. They declared that 
such a country would not suit their business : the people were 
too strong for them ; and the traders from Zanzibar purchased 
their ivory from M'tes^ with cotton stuffs, silks, guns, and 
powder, brass-coil bracelets, beads, &c. The beads were ex- 
changed by equal weight for ivory. 

"Even at Fatiko the brass-coil bracelets from Zanzibar are 
now common. Some of Abou Saood's people are actually 
dressed in Manchester manufactures that have arrived vid 
Zanzibar at Unyoro. This is a terrible disgrace to the Soudan 



CHAP. XVI.] SACRIFICE AND WASTE OF CATTLE. 



265 



authorities ; tlins the Zanzibar traders are purchasing by legiti- 
mate dealing ivory that should, geographically speaking, belong 
to Cairo. 

" While fair dealing is the rule south of the equator, piracy 
and ruin are the rule of the north. 

" Abou Saood and his people are now in a dilemma. For 
many years they have pillaged the country, and after having 
taught the natives to regard cows as the only medium of ex- 
change for ivory, they have at length exhausted the cattle. 
Thus the transport of their large stock of ivory has for a time 
become impossible, as sufficient cows cannot be collected for the 
purpose. 

" Every load from Fatiko to Ismailia (Gondokoro) requires two 
cows ; one to Lobor6, and another thence to the journey's end. 

" By the Nile traders' arrangements, the companies of Abou 
Saood receive as their perquisite one-third of all the cattle that 
may be stolen in successful razzias. 

^'The consumption of cattle by these brigands is enormous. 
All flour is purchased in exchange for flesh, while flesh is also 
necessary for food ; thus the cow is being eaten at both ends. 

" The frightful drain upon the country may be imagined by 
the following calculation, which is certainly below the truth : — 
" If 1,000 loads of ivory must be carried to Ismailia, 
2,000 cows are required as payment of carriers ; 

To capture in a razzia 3,000 cows, 
1,000 belong to the brigands as their perquisite ; 
300 are necessary to feed the native carriers and soldiers 

' during the journey j 

3,300 cows are required to deliver 1,000 loads of ivory a 
distance of 165 miles, from Fatiko to Ismailia 
(Gondokoro). 
A station of 350 men consumes 

daily .... 700 lbs. 

In addition, they require to ex- 
change for flour . . . 350 lbs. 

Daily consumption of flesh . 1,050 lbs. 

"The oxen of the country do not average more 
than 170 lbs. cleaned. 
2,255 beasts are thus required annually. 

5,555 oxen are necessary to feed and pay for the transport 
from a station only 350 strong; according to the 
customs of White Mle brigandage. 



266 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



" It miisfc be remembered tliat at least a tliousand, and some- 
times double that number of slaves, are prisoners in each station. 
All these must be fed. The same principle is adopted in the 
exchange of flesh for flour ; thus the expenditure of cattle is 
frightful. Not only oxen, but all the breeding cows and young 
calves are killed without the slightest reflection. ]S"o country 
can support such wilful waste ; thus after many years of ravage, 
this beautiful province has become almost barren of cattle. 
The central districts occupied by the slave-traders having been 
denuded of cattle, it has become necessary to make journeys to 
dist an t countries. " 

The slave-hunters of Abou Saood had recently suff'ered a 
terrible defeat, at the hands of the warlike tribe of Umiro, which 
was a just reward for the horrible treachery of their party. 

A man named Ali Hussein was a well-known empJoije of Abou 
Saood. This ruflian was an Arab. He was a tall, wiiy fellow, 
with a determined but brutal cast of countenance, wlio was 
celebrated as a scoundrel among scoundrels. Even his fellows 
dreaded his brutality. There v/as no crime that he had not 
committed ; and as his only virtue was extreme daring, his 
reputation was terrible among the native population. 

This fellow had waited upon my orders daily since my arrival 
at Fatiko. 

At the death of the former A'akeel of Fatiko, Ali Hussein had 
succeeded to the command of the station. 

He had arranged to make a descent upon the Umiro tribe, 
about six days' march to the south-east. 

He accordingly sent natives as spies, ^vitli S23ecious messages 
to the Umiro, amiouncing his intention of visiting them to 
purchase ivory. 

With a party increased by volunteers from other stations to a 
force of about 300 men, he arrived at Umiro. 

The simple natives received him gladly, and showed extreme 
hospitality. The country was thickly populated, and abounded 
with vast herds of the finest cattle. 

: After a week's sojourn among the Umiro, during which he had 
received large presents of elephants' tusks, and seventy liead of 
oxen from the confiding natives, the treacherous ruflian gave an 
order to his brigands at sunset. They were to be under arms an 
hour before daybreak on the following morning, to set fire to 
the adjacent villages of their generous hosts, and to capture 
their large herds of cattle, together with their women and 
children. 



CHAP. XVI ] MASSACRE OP SLAVE-HUNTERS. 



At the time cappoiiited, while every Umiro slept unconscious 
of approaching danger, several villages wore surrounded, and 
volleys of musketry were poured uj^oii the sleeping inmates. 
The straw huts were ignited, and the flames rapidly spread, 
while a massacre commenced similar to the butcheries to which 
the slave-hunters were so well accustomed. 

The Umiro, thus taken by surprise, and appalled by so 
dastardly a treachery, were easily defeated. Their children and 
Avives were captured, together with large herds of cattle, which 
are celebrated for their size. All these were driven in triumph 
to Eatiko. 

The success of this infernal scheme, raised the reputation of 
Ali Hussein to the highest pitch. The reports of the vast 
pastoral wealth of the Umiro excited the cupidity of the various 
companies in the stations of Abou Saood. 

It v/as determined to make a grand attack upon a people^ who, 
in spite of their warlike character, had exhibited a total want of 
power to resist. 

Ali Hussein sent an expedition of about 350 men, in addition 
to a large number of Fatiko allies. They arrived on the borders 
of Umiro, within about an hour's march of the villages doomed 
to pillage. The party was under the command of a notorious 
ruffian named Lazim, whom I had kno\vn during my former 
exploration. 

Upon arrival in the Umiro country, during the night after a 
forced march, he sent a detachment of 103 men, together Avith 
about 150 natives, to attack the vilhiges by a surprise at dawn, 
and to capture the sWes and cattle in the usual manner. 

The party started at the early hour of first cock-crow, Vvdiile 
the main body under Lazim waited for the result. 

Hours passed, but the company did not return. A few shots 
had been heard in the distance. 

The country was clear and open, but nothing could be seen. 
There was no lowing of cattle, neither did the heavy clouds of 
smoke, usual on such occasions, point out tlie direction of burning 
villages. 

Presently, drums were heard in every direction, the horns and 
whistles of the Umiro sounded the alarm, and large bodies of 
natives rushed across the plain to the attack of Lazim's main 
body. 

They had just time to form, and to post the men around the 
strong cattle kraal, which they had occupied^ when the stream 
of enemies came down upon them. 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



Upon the open plain, the Umiro had no chance in attacking 
so well defended a position, and the muskets, loaded with heavy 
mould shot, told with great effect upon the naked bodies of the 
assailants. 

The Umiro were beaten back with some loss, and the slave- 
hunters held the position, although in a state of terror, as they 
felt that some terrible calamity must have befallen the party 
which had started to surprise the villages. 

After dark, a Bari native cried out to the sentries to let him 
pass. This was a wounded man of their own people, the only 
survivor of all those who had left the main body on that 
morning. 

The Bari described, that the Umiro, having gained inform- 
ation of the intended attack, had lain in ambush within high 
withered grass, in which they had awaited the arrival of their 
assailants. 

The slave-hunters were advancing as usual, in single file, along 
the narrow track through the high grass, unsuspicious of an 
enemy, when the Umiro rushed from both sides of the ambuscade 
upon them. 

Taken by surprise, a panic seized the slave-hunters, very few 
of whom had time to fire their muskets before they were speared 
by the pitiless Umiro, who wreaked wholesale vengeance by the 
massacre of 103 of Abou Saood's men and about 150 of their 
allies. 

The main body under Lazim were completely cowed, as they 
feared an overwhelming attack that might exhaust their ammu- 
nition. The Umiro had now become possessed of 103 guns and 
several large cases of cartridges, in addition to those in the 
pouches of the soldiers. 

Night favoured the retreat, and the remnant of the expedition 
under Lazim returned by forced marches to Fatiko. 

The defeat had spread consternation among the various stations, 
as it followed closely upon the destruction of a station belonging 
to Abou Saood in the Madi country. 

This zareeba had been under the command of a vakeel named 
Jusef, who had exasperated the natives by conthiual acts of 
treachery and slave-hunting. They had accordingly combined 
to attack the station at night, and had set lire to the straw 
huts, by shooting red-hot arrows into the inflammable thatched 
roofs. 

These calamities had happened since the arrival of Abou 
Saood in the Shooli country, and it was he who had given the 



dHAP. XVI.] 



ABOU SAOOD'S DOINGS. 



269 



order to attack the Umiro. His own people, being naturally 
superstitious, thought he had brought bad luck with him. 

It appeared that wlien Abou Saood had first arrived at Fatiko 
from Gondokoro, the vakeels of his different stations were all 
prepared for the journey to deliver the ivory. They had given 
the cattle obtained in the first attack upon Umiro to the native 
carriers of Madi and Shooli, and the tusks had been arranged in 
about 2,000 loads for transport. 

The sudden arrival of Abou Saood changed all their plans, as 
he immediately gave orders to return the ivory to the store huts ; 
he did not intend to deliver it at Gondokoro that year. He also 
sent a letter to his Latooka station, nine days' march to the 
north-east, together with a party of eighty men, with instructions 
to his vakeel to deliver the ivory at the Bohr station beiow 
Gondokoro. 

He thus hoped to defraud the government out of the two-fifths 
due to them by contract with Agad. At the same time, he had 
intended to remain concealed in the interior of the country until 
I should have returned to England; after which he had no 
doubt that affairs would continue in their original position. 

It may be imagined that my sudden arrival at Fatiko had 
disconcerted ail his plans. 

In spite of his extreme cunning, he had over-estimated his 
own power of intrigue, and he had mismanaged his affairs. 

According to the agreement with Agad & Co. , the represent- 
ative of that firm, Abou Saood, had contracted to supply the 
government troops with all provisions at a given price, including 
even sheep and butter, as he declared that he was in possession 
of these articles in his various stations. He was also to assist 
the government expedition in every manner, and to supply not 
only carriers, but even troops, should they be necessary. 

I read this contract to some of his principal men, who fairly 
laughed outright at the audacity of Abou Saood in subscribing 
to such utter falsehoods. 

Not only had he secretly fraternized with the enemy, instead 
of assisting the government, but he had cautioned the Earis not 
to carry our loads, and he had incited the Fatiko natives to 
attack us. The supply of food was too ridiculous. Instead of 
giving to the troops, he had been obliged to borrow corn from 
the government magazines at Gondokoro for his own people, and 
I had given him 200 cattle to save his men from famine. 

The deceit and treachery of this man were beyond belief. He 
now came to me daily at Fatiko, and swore by the eyes of the 



270 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



Propliet, eternal fidelity. He wished to kiss my hand, and to 
assure me how little his real character had been understood, and 
that he felt sure I had been influenced against him by others, 
but that in reality I had no servant so devoted as himself. He 
declared that he had only attacked the Shir and stolen their 
cows in order to supply the government troops with cattle 
according to contract.^ 

In sjDite of these protestations, he could not explain his reason 
for having returned the ivory to store, instead of transporiing it 
to Gondokoro. He therefore met the difficulty by a flat denial, 
as usual, calling upon the Prophet as a witness. 

Only a few days of his contract remained, at the expiration of 
wdiich he should Lave withdrawn his establishments from the 
country, according to my written orders that had been given 
many months ago. 

He had entirely ignored these orders, as he had never expected 
my arrival: therefore he had concealed all such iiistructions 
from his people, in the hope that my term of service would 
expire fruitlessly at Gondokoro, and that, after my departure, 
he would have little ditflculty in arranging for the future with 
his friend Eaouf Bey, v>"ho would most probably succeed to the 
command. 

I at once issued written orders to the vakeels of his diiierent 
stations, that, at the end of the month ]\Iohurram, the contract 
with Agad would cease, and that all future action would be 
illegal. 

I gave all employes of Abou Saood due notice, that they must 
either c^uit the country, or become respectable subjects. 

I granted them permission to settle at Gondokoro, and to 
commence farms on the fertile islands of the ^Hq free of all 
taxation. 

Or, should they wish to enter the government service as 
irregular troops, I offered the same pay as the regulars, with the 
advantage of an annual engagement. 

I met several headmen whom I had known in my former 
journey. These men found fault with Abou Saood for having 
left them in the dark respecting the contract with the govern- 
ment ; and they at once declared that they should be happy to 
serve as irregulars at the expiration of the agreement. 

There was a great difliculty respecting the ivory, wliicli com- 
prised in all the stations 3,200 tusks. 

^ Thus he had the audacity to assert that the government would become 
the purcliaser of cattle stolen expressly for their use. 



oiiAP. XVI.] IMPOSSIBLE TO TRANSPORT THE IVORY. 



271 



Tlie cattle tliat had been given to the native carriers for the 
transport of the ivory to Gondokoro had only partially been 
returned by the disappointed Madi. Many of these people had 
killed and eaten the beasts, and had declared that they had died, 
when they found the necessity of restoring them. 

It was now necessary to move the ivory, together with all the 
establishments, to Gondokoro. This would require at least 6,000 
cows. It was a complete fix. There were no cattle in any of 
Abou Saood's stations ; they had all been consumed ; and he 
now came to me with a request that I would lend him eighty 
oxen, as his j^eople had nothing to eat. 

It was clearly impossible to move the ivory. Thus, in spite 
of my orders given to Abou Saood about fen months • previous, 
the opportunity of moving had been lost, and the time of 
departure was reduced to sine die. This was a hopeless condition 
of affairs. There were no cattle in Abou Saood's possession, and 
without cows the ivory could not be moved. At the same time^ 
it would be impossible for me to permit him to make razzias 
upon distant countries, as I had arrived to establish government, 
and to afford protection to all tribes that would declare their 
allegiance. 

I now discovered that the principal vakeel of Abou Saood, 
named Mohammed Wat-el-Mek, had only recently started with 
a large force, by Abou Saood's orders, to invade the Kooshi 
country on the west side of the White ISTile, close to its exit from 
the Albert N'yanza. 

This was a tribe that could not possibly have interfered with 
Abou Saood ; but as the cattle had been exhausted on the east 
bank of the river, he had commenced a series of razzias upon the 
west. The Koshi were people with whom friendship should 
have been established, as they were on "the navigable ll^ile that 
would eventually be traversed by the steamer, when constructed 
at Ibrahimdyah. It was thus that all tribes were rendered 
hostile by the slave-hunters. 

Mohammed Wat-el-Mek (son of the king) was the man who 
had first discovered and opened up the countries south of Gon- 
dokoro. This person was a curious but useful character that I 
had always wished to employ, as he had great power svith the 
natives, and he knew every nook and corner of the country. 

I had known him during my former journey, and it appears 
that he had always wished to serve me in the present expedition. 
The slave-traders of Khartoum had been determined to prevent 
Wat-el-Mek from communicating with me; thus, when I had 



272 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



arrived in Khartoum, tliis important personage was actually 
there; but he was quickly sent by Abou Saood under some 
frivolous pretext up the Elue Kile, to keep him out of the way. 

On arrival at Gondokoro, he had studiously been retained on 
the west bank of the river, and his name had been kept so secret, 
that I had never heard it mentioned. Thus, although both at 
Khartoum and at Gondokoro Wat-el-Mek had been within a few 
hundred paces of me, I had always supposed that he was in 
Central Africa. 

Abou Saood now declared that Wat-el-Mek had started many 
days ago from Fatiko to Koshi; but I subsequently discovered 
that he had only left Fatiko on the morning of my arrival, and 
that he was kept waiting at Fabbo station, only twenty-two 
miles west of Fatiko, for several days, while I had been told by 
Abou Saood that he had gone to Koshi. 

Mohammed Wat-el-Mek was the son of a petty king far away 
up the Blue Xile, beyond Fazokle. 

He had in early life been a serjeant or chousli in the Egyptian 
army ; but having an adventurous disposition, he had taken to 
the White Isiie, as the vakeel of Andi'ea Debono, a Maltese 
ivory merchant, 

Mr. Debono, being a British subject, retired from the trade 
when the slave-hunting arrived at such a pitch that it became 
impossible for Europeans to continue business on the White 
Nile.i 

Debono had amassed a considerable fortune entirely through 
the energy of Wat-el-Mek, who had pushed into the interior, and 
had established his stations v/ith considerable forethought and 
skill tliroughout the formerly unvisited Madi country. 

Wat-el-]\rek was an exceedingly black man, about the middle 
height, and much pitted with the small-pox. AVhile in the 
service of Debono, he had commanded the station of Faloro, 
where he had most hospitably received Speke and Grant on their 
arrival from Zanzibar. These great travellers were entertained 
at Faloro during many weeks, and were afterwards conducted by 
their host to Gondokoro, where I had the good fortune to meet 
them. 

Wat-el-Mek was a very courageous fellow ; and although he 
would not perhaps have been considered a good character at a 
London police-court, he was a man who would be most useful to 

1 The slave trade arrived at such a maximum that all Eiuopean traders 
in ivory were driven from the White Nile, including Mr. Petherick, the 
British Consul. 



OHAP. xvi.j CHARACTER OF WAT-EL-MEK. 



273 



an expedition in Central Africa, where liis vicious propensities 
could be restrained by the discipline of government. 

When Speke parted from him at Gondokoro, he presented him 
with a beautiful double-barrelled gun by Blissett, in addition to 
other articles. 

The worst vice of this man was drinking. When drunk, he 
could be induced to yield to any absurdity. 

However, with all liis faults, I should have been glad of Wat- 
el-Mek to command the irregular force. 

In the days when Debono was the proprietor of the Madi 
station, Wat-el-Mek had been the sole vakeel ; and although he 
was a tyrant, he was not disliked by the natives. Since Debono 
had sold his stations to the firm of Agad & Co., every separate 
camp was governed by an independent vakeel ; thus there were 
many tyrants instead of one. 

These numerous agents acted in opposition to each other in the 
purchase of ivory. If a native of Fatiko should take a tusk to 
sell at the station of Fabbo, he would run the chance of being 
shot upon his return. This system of attempted monopoly was 
carried out throughout the country, and naturally resulted in 
anarchy. Although all the vakeels and companies belonged to 
one firm, they acted as rival traders. Thus, if slaves ran away 
from one station and took shelter with the natives of a village 
belonging to the people of another vakeel, an attack would bo 
made upon the village that harboured the runaways, and their 
women and children would be immediately captured. 

This onslaught on the village under the protection of a certain 
station would be quickly returned by a counter-attack upon a 
village belonging to the encroaching vakeel. This system was 
purposely adopted, as it served to divide the country into opposing 
sections, which prevented the natives from forming a general 
coalition. 

It may readily be imagined that my arrival was hailed with 
satisfaction by the natives throughout the country. Should a 
stranger have filled my position, there might have been some 
suspicion in the minds of the natives, but I had been so well 
known during my former journey, that the people accepted the 
new government with thorough confidence. 

Wat-el-Mek, Avho was always the discoverer of unknown lands^ 
had lately visited a new country in the east. 

It may be remembered by the readers of " The Albert 
N'yanza," that shortly before my return from Shooa (only six: 
miles from Fatiko) a new country named Lira had been discovered 

T 



274 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



by the vakeel of Koorsliad Aglia — "Ibraliim." Poor Ibrahim 
Avas dead, otherwise I should have had a good and dependable 
man. 

The Lira country was rich in ivory, but the greatest prize dis- 
covered was the presence of donkeys, which are quite unknown 
in the White Nile districts. 

Wat-el-]\Iek had now penetrated beyond Liia, and had reached 
the country of Langgo, which was exceedingly interesting. 

Troni the description of the people, it appeared that the por- 
tion of the Langgo visited by them was entirely different from 
the country between Gondokoro and Unyoro. 

The expedition had crossed tlie Sobat river, and had arrived 
in the Langgo about 130 miles due east of Fatiko. They described 
the country as similar to portions of the Soudan. Generally, flat 
plains of the rich grass known as negheel, which never grows 
high, and is the finest pasturage. The trees were for the most 
part Soont {Acacia Arahica), which is not met with in the 
White iSTile countries south of the Sobat junction. 

The Langgos were an immense tribe, but were, like the Laris, 
divided under many chiefs. These people were exceeding]}^ large 
and powerful, and were esteemed as great warriors. They seldom 
ate flour, but lived upon the milk and flesh of their innumerable 
herds. 

The cattle v/ere as large as those of England, and were cele- 
brated for the extreme size of their horns. 

* Wat-el-Mek had made a razzia with a very powerful force, col- 
lected from all the stations of Aboii Saood, and he had succeeded 
in capturing an enormous number of these fine animals, together 
with a large herd of donkeys. 

These strange cattle would not live at Tatiko, as the herbage 
was quite difl'erent to that to which they had been accustomed. 
They died in such numbers, that in three months only three or 
four remained out of as many thousand. Thus all these beautiful 
beasts were wasted. 

The river Sobat was described as flowing from the south, and 
was known as the Choi. The Asua river is only one day's march, 
or about twenty miles, east of Eatiko. The Sobat is never dry, 
and is reported to be a noble river; this suggests that Spekc's 
Victoria iS^'yanza, or the Eahr Ingo's eastern corner, jnust have 
an effluent in addition to the Victoria Kile, tliat flows from 
M'tL'Sc's capital of Uganda. 

Eeyond Langgo there is a country called Lobbohr, which is 
said to possess camels. In the Lobbohr there is a river called 



OBtAP. XVI.] THE COUNTRY OF LOBBOHIi. 



275 



Jooba. This is, I believe, the Juba that flows into tlie Indian 
Ocean, as the report continues that : " Arabs arrive at Lobbohr 
mounted upon camels, and armed vvdth swords and pistols, but 
without guns." Horses and donkeys are also reported to exist 
in Lobbohr. 

There can be no doubt that most important countries lie to the 
east of Fatiko, and should the story of camels prove correct, there 
will be no difficulty in opening up a commercial route. 

It appears that at Langgo the demand for beads is very great, 
as the natives work them into patterns upon their matted hair. 
Ivory has little or no value, and exi-ts in large quantities. 

The natives refuse to carry loads, and they transport an ele- 
phant's tusk ])y boring a hole in the hollow end, through which 
they attach a rope ; it is then dragged along the ground by a 
donkey. The ivory is thus seriously damaged 

Such was the position of affairs at Fatiko in March, 1872. 
New and important countries had been investigated, not by ex- 
plorers or traders, but by the brigands of Abou Saood, whose 
first introduction was the unprovoked attack and carrying off of 
slaves and cattle. 

Such conduct could only terminate in an extension of the ruin 
Avhich a similar course had determined in every country that had 
been occupied by the traders of the White Nile. 

I trusted that my arrival v/ould create a great reform, and 
restore confidence throughout the country. The news had spread 
far and wide. The scarlet soldiers were regarded as a distinct 
species, and the report quickly circvdatcd, that the "Pacha's 
troops Avere entirely different from any that had hitherto been 
seen, as their clothes were red, and their muskets were loaded 
from the wrong end." 

I now determined to establish a station at Fatiko, to represent 
the government during my absence in the south. 

Abou Saood had sworn fidelity. Of course I did not believe 
him, but as the natives had welcomed the governmeut, I could 
not leave them without protection. 

It Avas therefore arranged with Abou Saood that after the 
expiration of the contract, all operations should cease. He would 
simply remain on sufferance in the country, until he should be 
able to transport his ivory to Gondokoro. This could only be 
effected by the arrival of carriers from his stations, about 180 
miles west of the Nile, in the Makkarika country. His first step 
would therefore be to communicate with the vakeel Atroosh, 
who commanded about 600 men in the west station. 

T 2 



276 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



I ordered Aboii Saood to disarm the seventy Baris who were in 
his service at Fatiko, as I would not allow muskets to be placed 
in the hands of natives who were hostile to the government. 

This he promised to do, but of course he evaded the order, by 
returning the arms to the Baris the instant I had departed. 

It may appear to the public that having " absolute and supreme 
power," I was absurdly lenient towards Abou Saood, whom I 
knew to be so great a villain. I confess to one fault. I should 
have arrested and transported him to Khartoum when he first ¦ 
arrived at Gondokoro with the cattle stolen from the Shir; which 
caused the subsequent massacre of the five soldiers of the 
government. 

At the same time that I admit this error, it must be remem- 
bered that I was placed in an awkward position. 

"Absolute and supreme power" is a high-sounding title; but 
how was I to exert it 1 

I was an individual possessing a nominal povv^er, the applica- 
tion of which required extreme delicacy. I was determined to 
win, and with God's help I did win, but every step necessitated 
the coolest judgment. Had I adopted severe or extreme measures 
against Abou Saood, I might have ruined the expedition at the 
commencement. 

It was impossible to know who was faithful. There was a 
general leaning towards his favour among all the officers, with 
whom he had been in close connection when in Khartoum. He 
was a man in a high social position in the Soudan, the partner of 
the great firm of Agad & Co., who commanded about 2,500 
armed men. He had worked for many years in company with 
the government, according to his connection by agreement with 
the governor-general. 

I knew that I had him in my power, provided I should be sup- 
ported by the authorities in Eygpt; therefore I gave him line, 
and occasionally held him tight, as though he had been a salmon 
on a single gut; but I was determined to land him safe at last, 
in such a manner that his greatest supporter should be obliged to 
acknowledge that he had received the fairest play. Abou Saood's 
Fatiko station was crowded with slaves. His people were all paid 
in slaves. The stations of Fabbo, Faloro, and Farragenia were a 
mass of slaves. 

I did not enter a station to interfere with these wretched cap- 
tives, as I knew that such an act would ^create irretrievable 
confusion. 

I had only 212 men, and I wished to advance to the equator. 



CHAP. XVI.] AN UNTOWARD OCCURRENCE. 



277 



Fatiko was in north latitude 3° 01', and 165 miles from hend- 
quarters. Had I attempted to release some thousand slaves from 
the different stations, I should have required a large military force 
to have occupied those stations, and to have driven out the whole 
of the slave-hunters bodily. 

If the slaves had been released, it would have been impossible 
to have returned them to their homes, as they had been collected 
from every quarter of the compass and from great distances. If 
I had kept them, I could not have procured food for so large a 
number: as the stations contained several thousand. 

Under the circumstances, I took the wiser course of non-inter- 
ference with the stock in hand, but I issued the most severe 
orders respecting the future conduct of Abou Saood's companies. 
I arranged to leave a dettichment of 100 men, under the com- 
mand of Major Abdullah, to form a station adjoining that of Abou 
Saood ill Fatiko, together with the heavier baggage and the 
greater portion of the ammunition. 

The government would be thus represented by a most respect- 
able and civilized officer, who would give confidence and protec- 
tion to the coimtry; as I concluded that the prestige of the 
Khedive would be sufficient to establish order among his subjects, 
by the representation of one of his officers and a detachment of 
100 troops. 

I gave orders to Gimoro and Shooli to prepare carriers for the 
journey to Unyoro. 

An untoward occurrence had taken place shortly after our 
arrival at Fatiko. 

As has already been described, the Lobore natives had not 
only cheated us out of many cows that had been received, for 
which the carriers had not been forthcoming, but numbers had 
deserted on the road, which had caused the troops great trouble 
and fatigue, as they had been obliged to divide among them the 
abandoned loads. Upon our arrival at Fatiko, the son of sheik 
Abbio, of Lobore, would have absconded with all his people, had 
he not been retained by the troops. This man was responsible 
for the natives who had engaged themselves for the journey. 

It would have been the height of imprudence to have per- 
mitted the immediate departure of our carriers before I had 
arranged for the future, thus about eighty were secured by the 
soldiers, including the sheik's son, from a general stampede that 
took place. . 

I ordered them to be disarmed, as I considered that if un- 
armed, they would not venture alone through the Madi country. 



278 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVI. 



In the evening they were secured by a slight line tied round 
each man's neck, and connected in gangs of five. A guard was 
placed over them in addition to the nsual sentries. 

At ahout 4 A.M. a signal was given by one of their people. 
Every man had gnawed through his cord with his teeth during 
the darkness, and at the concerted cry in a language that no one 
understood, the entire party, of upwards of eighty men, knocked 
down the astonished guard.^, also the sentries, and rushed head- 
long over the rocks in the direction of Lobore. 

It was a natural impulse and a soldier's duty to fire in the 
direction of the assailants, as the overturned sentries cpiickly 
recovered and joined the guard in a volley. 

I was up in an instant, and upon arrival at the spot I was in- 
formed of the occurrence. It was pitch dark, therefore a lantern 
was brought, and after a search, three bodies were discovered of 
the rash and unfortunate Lobore. I was exceedingly sorry that 
such an event had happened, at the same time I could hardly 
blame the sentries. I was much afraid that if three were shot 
dead, others must have escape 1 wounded, and altogether the aiiair 
would have a bad eftect at Lobore. 

The sheik of Latiko was named Wat-el- Ajoos. This name had 
been given him by the slave-hunters, meaning " Son of the old 
man." His village was not quite half a mile from our camp, and 
he frequently came to see me with his interpreter, accompanied 
by his wives. 

Upon his first visit I gave him a long blue shirt, together with 
some yards of Tm-key red cambric, to form a waist sash; also a 
red fez and two razors, with a quantity of beads for his wives. 

Eatiko is merely a district of the great country of Shooli, 
which is governed by the sheik. Rot Jarma. This person had 
sent word that he intended to visit me, to tender his allegiance 
to the government. 

On 16th March, a wild sound of many horns was the first in- 
troduction, and shortly after, a number of his people advanced 
chanting a peculiar low song, and dancing a solemn slow step. 
The great sheik came behind tliL'm. He was quickl}^ ushered 
into my presence beneath a shady acacia, close to my tent door. 
He was perfectly red from head to toes, having been freshly 
smeared with red ochre and grease for the interview. A well- 
dressed skin of an antelope was slung across his shoulder, and 
descending across his loins it constituted his scanty clothing. 

His conversation was merely a repetition of the old story 
being a series of complaints against the slave-hunters. Ho 



I 



CHAP. XVI.] THE GREAT SHEIK, ROT JARMA. 



279 



declared tliat he had never visited Abon Saood or any of his 
people, but that when he had heard of my arrival, he had deter- 
mined at once to offer his allegiance, and he and all adjacent 
countries would serve the government faithfully, in return for 
protection and justice. 

I assured him that he had nothing to fear from the slave- 
hunters in future, as I should leave Major Abdullah and a 
detachment of troops to represent the government during my 
absence. He was to supply them with corn, and to yield the 
same obedience to Major Abdullah as he would to me. I gave 
him nine yards of red cotton cloth, six pounds of beads, two 
razors, one comb, two horn snakes in boxes, one knife, one burn- 
ing glass, one zinc mirror, two nickel spoons, three rods of thick 
brass wire, two finger-rings, two pair of ear-rings, two red and 
yellow cotton handkerchiefs. 

The total value of this extensive present was about twenty- 
one shillings. 

Eefore he had arrived, ho had requested that a goat might be 
sent to be slaughtered at a stream before he should cross over ; 
otherwise bad luck would attend his visit. Of course this was 
acceded to, and the goat was sacrificed and eaten by his people. 
> I gave him, according to niy usual custom with all sheiks 
and headmen, seeds of the best Egyptian cotton, tomatoes, 
pumpkins, cucumbers, Avater-melons, sweet-melons, barmian, 
maize, &c., &c. 

Before parting, I amused and shocked him with the magnetic 
battery, and he went away surprised and delighted. 

I subsequently discovered that a large quantity of flour, 
together with some fowls which he had forwarded to me, had 
been stopped and appropriated by the renowned Ali Hussein. 
The intriguing spirit of these slave-hunters was extraordinary. 
It is their custom never to receive a sheik unless he brings a 
present. He therefore considered that if Eot Jarma should 
appear for the first time before me empty-handed, I should 
either not admit him, or perhaps be prejudiced against him ; 
thus he had stolen the customary gift of introduction in order to 
create ill-will oa my part towards Eot Jarma, who had never 
yet condescended to visit the station of Abou Saood 

Wat-el- Ajoos, with the assistance of Shooli and Gimoro, had 
collected 200 carriers, all of whom had received each a cow. 

I had assorted the luggage, and although I had not the slight- 
est suspicion of any fighting, nevertheless my ammunition formed 
a considerable portion of the heavier baggage. 



280 



ISMAILIA. 



[CHAF. XVII. 



Major Abdiillali had received his instructions, and a site had 
been chosen for his station within a hundred yards of the south 
extremity of that of Abou Saood. This position was backed by 
a high rock, upon which I had already commenced to build a 
powder magazine of solid masonry. 

Abou Saood having as usual sworn upon the eyes and head of 
the Prophet to do all that was right and virtuous, and the 
natives throughout the country being confident of protection, 
I prepared for the journey to Unyoro — a distance across the 
uninhabited prairies of seventy-eight miles from Fatiko, due 
south. 

Our excellent and trusty friend Shooli was to be our guide. 
Gim5ro was prevented from accompanying us owing to a 
wounded foot. 



CHAPTER XYII. 

THE MARCH TO UNYORO. 

On 18th March, 1872, we were all in order for the march to the 
south, under the direction of our guide, Shooli. 

Having taken leave of Major Abdullah, I left him a good 
supply of sheep and cattle for his detachment, and at 2 p.m. 
we started for the prairie march to Unyoro. 

The descent from the table-land of Fatiko was rapid for the 
first seven miles, at which point we reached a stream of clear 
running water, which is one of the channels of the Un-y-Am^ 
river. 

The limit of the inhabited country is about three miles from 
the camp at Fatiko, after which all is wilderness to Unyoro. 

This fertile country has been left uninhabited, on account of 
the disturbance occasioned by the diversity of tribes. On the 
east it is bounded by Umiro, on the south by Unyoro, and on 
the west by Madi. This large tract of land, about eighty 
miles from north to south, is accordingly the resort of wild 
animals, and it forms the f\xvourite hunting-ground of the 
various tribes, who generally come into conflict with each other 
during their excursions in pursuit of game. 



CHAP. XVII.] MARCH TO DNYORO— FIRST BIVOUAC. 



281 



We halted for the night at the clear stream of the Un-y-Am6, 
as the native carriers expected their wives to bring them pro- 
visions for the journey. It was only five o'clock, therefore I 
strolled along the banks of the stream accompanied by fehooli, 
and shortly came upon game. 

At this season the country was very lovely, as the young 
grass was hardly a foot high. Stalking was extremely difficult, 
as the land was clear of trees, and the long sweeping undula- 
tions exposed every object to view when upon the face of the 
inclines. I managed at length to get a tolerable shot at one of 
the beautiful teel antelopes {Leucotis), by creeping up the broken 
bed of a water-course until I arrived at a white-ant hill. On 
my way home I shot a gazelle, thus the natives all had flesh 
from the two animals on the first night of the march. 

The wives appeared to be excellent women, as they arrived in 
great numbers with a quantity of hard porridge made of dhurra 
flour, which was to form the commissariat for a journey of 
nearly 160 miles to Unyoro and back. 

If a native travels through wilderness, he will always make 
forced marches, thus the Fatikos would only sleep one night 
upon the road of seventy-eight miles when on the return 
journey. 

On the following morning, we were rather late in starting, as 
more women arrived with food, and certain farewells took place. 
The Fatiko natives appeared to be very superior to the Lobore, 
as not one man absconded. In fact, one native who had a 
swollen leg which prevented him from walking, actually sent 
back his cow with an explanation of the cause of absence. 

On 19th March we started at 6.50 a.m., all our carriers being 
well provided with food. The country was as usual a well- 
watered undulating prairie, abounding in game. At this season 
the journey was very delightful, but when the grass is about 
nine feet high it is simply detestable travelling. 

On the march, we, as usual, led the way. Lieutenant Baker 
dismounted for a shot at a splendid buck [Leucotis), which he 
wounded somewhere behind, and the animal made off in evident 
discomfort. . This was a signal for the natives, who immediately 
put down their loads and started off in pursuit, like a pack of 
hounds. 

Although the animal was badly hit, the pace was very great, 
and it went along the face of the opposite undulation followed 
by the extraordinary runners, who, with their long springing 
strides, kept up a speed for about three-quarters of a mile that at 



282 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. xyii. 



lengtli brouglit tlie leading native sufficiently near for throwing 
his lance. The next moment a crowd of hungry fellows fell 
upon the Avelcome game like starving wolves. 

After a march of twelve miles we arrived at a rocky stream of 
clear Avater, which is another channel of the Un-y-Ame river, 
that carries otf the main drainage of this country. We halted 
to refresh the people and to have our breakfast on the clean 
rock that bordered the stream, and started for the afternoon 
march at 2 p.m. 

Daring the marcli I endeavoured to stalk a large bull tc^tel 
[Antelope hub d is), but there was very little chance in so open a 
country. The animal galloped off exactly in a straight line 
from me at about 260 yards. I put up the last leaf of the sight, 
and I distinctly heard the bullet strike. The next moment I 
saw the animal was wounded. It was just disappearing over 
the next undulation, and upon arriving at the spot, I saw the 
Avounded bull standing about 200 yards before me. 

I approached from behind until within 100 paces, without 
being observed by the tetel, who was evidently very bad. 
I\Ioving slightly to my right, I was quickly seen, and the 
animal turned its flank preparator}^ to making off. A shot from 
the '•'Dutchman" through the shoulder killed it on the spot. 

I no^v found that my first bullet had struck the spine exactly 
above the root of the tail. This large animal was a good supply 
for the people, who quickl}^ divided it and continued the march, 
until, having crossed another s'ream, we left the open prairie 
and entered a low forest. Halted for the night. The march 
during this day had been nineteen miles. 

On the 20th we marched, from 6 a.m. till 9.45, through 
undulating forest, and halted upon high ground, which com- 
manded a fine view of the mountain that borders the west shore 
of the Albert i'n 'yanza, opposite Magungo, about fift3''-five miles 
vS.S.W. From our elevated point we looked do vm over a fine 
extent of country, and the Fatiko natives pointed out the course 
of the White Nile from the great lake, along which was a line 
of smoke, caused, acc ording to their accounts, by the fishermen 
who were at tliis season burning the high reeds on the river's 
bank. 

The natives were thoroughly conversant with the country, as 
they had on several occasions accompanied the slave-hunters in 
razzias along the river to Foquatch and Magungo. Just as Ave 
halted, a party of Umiro hunters came across our path, but im- 
mediately took to flight, as tliey supposed we Avere enemies. 



OHAP. XVII.] DEPLORABLE CHANGE. 



283 



Tho clay's niarcli had been thirteen miles, and we were requested 
by our guide, Shooli, to halt for the night, as there was no water 
for a considerable distance to the south. 

I immediately employed the soldiers in the construction of a 
cattle kraal, lest the prowling Umiro should endeavour to scare 
the animals during the night. 

On 21sfc March we started at 6 a.m., and marched thirteen 
miles through forest. We at length reached water, but it was so 
thick with mud that the horses refused to drink it. 

On the 22nd we were compelled to march twenty-three miles, 
as the water was quite undrinkable, the few muddy pools having 
been stirred into paste by the buffaloes and elephants. 

We now reached the grand Victoria JSTile, flowing beneath 
cliffs of seventy or eighty feet in depth, through magnificent 
forest. It was refreshing for all parties to obtain pure water 
after the miserable fluid we had lately been compelled to drink. 

In the evening a sheik and several people, who had known 
me formerly, crossi^d the river from the Unyoro side, and desired 
an interview. They reported that the Khartoum traders had al- 
most destroyed the country, and they begged me simply to judge 
with my own eyes. 

I must now extract from my journal the entry of the date, 
as, although briefly written, it will convey the impression of the 
moment : — 

" AfnrcJ/ 23, 1872. — We marched three miles east, along the 
banks of the beautiful Victoria Mle, through fine open forest, 
until we halted on a liigli cliff exactly opposite the last station 
of Abou Saood, commanded by a vakeel named Suleiman. 

" It is impossible to describe the change that has taken place 
since I last visited this country. It was then a perfect garden, 
thickly populated, and producing all that man could desire. 
The villages were numerous ; groves of plantains fringed the 
steep cliffs on the river's bank ; and the natives were neatly 
dressed in the bark-cloth of the country. 

" The scene has changed ! 

" All is wilderness ! The population has fled. Not a village 
is to be seen ! 

" This is the certain result of the settlement of Khartoum 
traders. They kidnap the women and children for slaves, and 
plunder and destroy wherever they set their foot. 

" Suleiman and Eddrees, two vakeels, who were well known 
to me as forming a portion of Ibrahim's party on my former 
journey, now came across the river to visit m.e. 



284 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, XVII. 



" The cunning Abou Saood has never told them of the exph- 
ation of the government contract with Agad & Co., neither had 
they any warning of my expected arrivah 

" I explained the exact state of affairs. 

" The principal sheik of the district, with many people, came 
to see me. The chief, Quonga, was one of my old acquaintances, 
and was formerly the favourite adviser of Kamrasi. 

"Kamrasi died about two years ago. His sons fought for the 
succession, and each aspirant sought the aid of the traders. This 
civil strife exactly suited the interests of the treacherous Khar- 
toumers. The several companies of slave-hunters scattered over 
the Madi, Shooli, and Unyoro countries represented only one interest, 
that of their employers, Agad and Co. 

"Each company, commanded by its independent vakeel, 
arrived in Unyoro, and supported the cause of each antagonistic 
pretender to the throne, and treacherously worked for the ruin 
of all, excepting him who would be able to supply the largest 
amount of ivory and slaves. 

^' The favourite sons of Kamrasi were Kabba Eega and Kabka 
Miro, Avhile the old enemy of the family, Rionga, the cousin of 
Kamrasi, again appeared upon the scene. 

" The companies of Abou Saood supported all three, receiving 
ivory and slaves from each as the hire of mercenary troops; and 
at length they played out their game by shooting Kabka Miro, 
and securing the throne to Kabba Eega. 

" They arranged with Rionga that he should be ostensibly 
banished to a convenient distance, to be ready as a trump card, 
should occasion require, against the new king, Kabba R6ga. 

" I explained the new reform to Quonga, and I gave him the 
following presents for Kabba Rega, who resides about six days' 
march south-west of this spot : — - 

One piece entire of Turkey red cloth, one piece grey calico, 
twelve pounds of beads of the finest varieties, three zinc mirrors, 
two razors, one long butcher's knife, two pair scissors, one brass 
bugle, one German horn, two pieces of red and yellow handker- 
chiefs, one piece of yellow ditto, one peacock Indian scarf, one 
blue blanket, six German silver spoons, sixteen pairs of various 
ear-rings, twelve finger-rings, two dozen mule harness bells, six 
elastic heavy brass spring wires, one pound long white horsehair, 
three combs, one pajDier-mache tray, one boxwood fife, one 
kaleidoscope. 

" I proclaimed upon all sides that the reign of terror was ended. 
As I formerly, when alone, had defended Kamrasi, and driven 



OHAP. XVII.] PECULIAR ELEPHANT SPEARS. 



285 



out the invaders under Wat-el-Mek, by hoisting the English 
ensign, so now I would take the country under my protection 
¦with a powerful force. 

" I gave Quonga and all liis sheiks presents of beads, and 
shocked them powerfully with the magnetic battery, leaving a 
strong impression. 

March 24. — I wrote officially to Suleiman, the vakeel of 
Agad & Co., to give him warning * that sixteen days hence the 
contract would expire, and that he and all his people must be 
ready to evacuate the country and return to Khartoum on that 
day. That any person who should remain after this notice would 
be imprisoned. That, should he or any of his people wish to 
enlist in the service of the government as irregular troops, 
their names must be handed in before the expiration of two 
days.' 

Suleiman declared his willingness to enlist together with 
Eddrees and several others. 

" He told me that nothing could be procured in the country. 
Thank God I left a good reputation here seven years ago; thus I 
shall be able to purchase food. 

" This morning my old acquaintance, Keedja, formerly chief 
of Atada, came to see me with many of his people, and with 
perfect confidence they commenced a trade, bringing provisions 
in exchange for beads. They promised to arrive to-morrow, and 
to establish a daily market at our camp. 

"Keedja explains that he and his people have been obliged to 
fly from the depredations of the companies of Abou Saood, thus 
they have settled in the forest on the north side of the river, and 
have cultivated farms. They have very few clothes, as their 
bark-cloth trees are on the south side of the river in their old 
plantations. 

'•'All the people declare they will now return to their old 
habitations and re-cultivate the land as in former days. 

" I found that the natives who ran from us on the march, 
and dropped their elephant spears, were Keedja's people, thus I 
returned to them the three spears and an axe, to their great 
astonishment.^ 

The elephant spears were of a kind used from trees. The blade 
is about twenty inches long, the handle about twenty-four inches. 
The end of the handle is heavily weighted with a lump of several 
pounds, composed of clay, cow-dung, and chopped straw, and the 

1 A pa^•ty of native himters had been scared during our march by our 
sudden appeai'ance. 



286 



ISIilAILIA. 



[chap. xvii. 



weapon, beautifully sharpened, is dropped upon the elephant's 
back by a hunter from the branches of a tree. The constant 
movement of the heavy handle as it strikes the boughs when the 
elephant rushes through the forest, cuts the animal so terribly 
that it bleeds to death. The hunters follow on the blood track 
until they find the dying animal. 

" March 25. — Suleiman, the A^akeel, summoned his men to 
volunteer for the government service as irregular troops. 

I issued a written proclamation, that should volunteers enlist, 
the term of service would be annual, subject to three months' 
notice, should any officer or private wish to retire at the 
expiration of twelve months. 

" The rank of the vakeel would be equivalent to that of major 
in the regular arni}^. 

" The pay would be equal to that of regular troops. 
If I can form a regiment of 600 irregulars I shall be inde- 
pendent of troops from Khartoum. 

^' March 26. — Quonga and many other sheiks arrived, and were 
quite delighted with the wheel of life. 

The natives are selling sweet potatoes and tobacco for beads, 
but flour is brought in very small quantities. 

" March 27. — Provisions are coming in so slowly that we shall 
be short of food. Upon the arrival of Quonga and his sheiks, I 
made a hot complaint; he coldly told me that it would be better 
if the soldiers were to forage for themselves. 

" I explained to him the rigid discipline that I enforced, and 
that, should I once permit thieving, the troops' character would 
be entirely ruined, and they would pillage throughout the route. 

" He replied that this neighbourhood was in a state of anarchy; 
that many of the inhabitants were hostile to Kabba Eega, and 
they would not obey his orders. 

" I told him that my troops were lambs if Avell fed, but they 
were like lions if hungry, and to prove their number I would 
summon them before him. 

The bugle sounded the ' taboor,' and upwards of 100 men 
immediately fell in with bayonets fixed, to the no small dismay 
of Quonga and his sheiks, Avho began to look very uneasy at the 
scarlet uniforms. By a coup cle tliedtre, I inarched the men, with 
bugles and drums playing, round the numerous huts, so that they 
reappeared twice before the t-ent, and thus doubled their real 
number. 

At the halt and dismissal, they shouted their usual wild cry 
in Turkish, in honour of their commander. 



OHAP. XVII.] PROVISIONS VERY SCARCE. 



287 



" ' Do you understand what they say 1 ' I asked Quonga. To 
his negative reply, I answered, ' They say they Avill eat from 
the country if provisions are not supplied to-morrow ! ' 

" Quonga and his sheiks started off immediately to give the 
necessary orders. 

" Upon his return I told him ' to advise Kabba Eega to behave 
in a different manner to the conduct of his father, the late Kam- 
rasi. I had returned to this country to bestow prosperity upon 
the land; thah if Kabba Eega meant fair dealing and legitimate 
trade, he must act honourably and sincerely; if I should find 
any signs of unfairness, I should pass on direct to Uganda, the 
country of M'tese, and he vfould receive the goods I had intended 
for Unyoro.' 

IS'egroes are great deceivers, especially the natives of Unyoro. 
I have beads, cattle, merchandise, and every article necessary to 
purchase flour and potatoes : nevertheless^, our vfants are not sup- 
plied. The cattle are dying, as the change of herbage does not 
agree with them; this is a sad loss.^ 

March 28. — The great sheik, Lokara, who is the commander- 
in-chief of Kabba Eega's forces, arrived. This man has left a 
large army on the banks of the ISTile, a few hours' march up 
stieam, ready to attack Eionga, who is settled, witli his people, 
on an island in the river. Of course he is come to request mili- 
tary aid. This is tlie old story. Upon my last visit I was bored 
almost to death by Kamrasi, with requests tliat I would assist 
him to attack Eionga. I have only been here for a few days 
when I am troubled with the old tune. 

March 29. — Provisions are very scarce; the people have been 
fighting for so many years that cultivation has been much neg- 
lected, and the natives live principally upon plantains. 

^' I gave Suleiman, the vakeel, five cows yesterday. He declares 
that Abou Saood told him that my term of service with the Egyp- 
tian government had expired, therefore the entire country was now 
in his hands. This liar, Abou Saood, will some day reap the 
fruits of his treachery. 

" I ordered the government flag to be hoisted in Suleiman's 
camp, and the vakeel, Suleiman, called upon all those who were 
willing to enlist in the service of the Khedive to assemble 
beneath the ensign. Sixty-one men registered their names. 

" The only difficulty is the rate of wages. I offer the privates 

1 One of the African difficulties consists in the mortality of the cattle 
when changing districts. 



283 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XVII. 



sixty piastres ^ per montli, i.e., thirty piastres as equal pay to 
that of the regulars, and thirty piastres in lieu of clothes, 
rormerly these brigands nominally received fifty and fifty-five 
piastres, in addition to one third of all cattle that might be 
captured in razzias. 

" Should I be able to establish a small irregular corps as a 
commencement, the expense would be considerable in projDortion 
to the actual proceeds in ivory. The position is difficult. 

"A radical change throughout the country is absolutely 
necessary. The companies have hitherto purchased ivory with 
slaves and cattle ; thus all countries in which this custom has 
been established, must be abandoned until the natives will sell 
ivory in exchange for goods. 

" The expenses will continue, or perhaps augment, while the 
ivory produce must decrease for the first twelve months, or until 
the people will understand and accept the reform. 

" Vv^ithout an irregular force it vuU be impossible to hold the 
country, and at the same time to carry on the work of govern- 
ment. The force that I originally proposed, of 1,650, is abso- 
lutely required to occupy a chain of stations from Gondokoro. 

March 30, — The cows are dying in great numbers, and the 
natives are bringing large quantities of potatoes in exchange for 
the flesh, but there is no corn in the country. 

" The days and nights are now cloudy and showery. 

''Lokara and Quonga came this morning, but no messenger 
has yet arrived from Kabba Rega. 

" I gave Lokara a blue shirt, a long red sash, and a crimson 
fez, to his great delight. The chiefs were much struck with the 
present intended for Kabba Eega ; this consisted of three rows 
of Koman pearls as large as marbles, with a gilt shield, and onyx- 
pendant tied up with green satin ribbon. 

March 31. — I sent all the cattle across the river in charge 
of Quonga ; two were carried off by crocodiles while in the act 
of swimming. 

" The great sheiks paid me a visit, together with many of 
inferior rank. Lokara, Quonga, Matonse, and Pittia, were among 
the principal chiefs of the country. As iliaj were sitting before 
me, Lokara lighted a huge pipe and immediately commenced 
smoking. This is a great breach of etiquette, as smoking is 
strictly forbidden in the presence of Kabba Eega. 

" My old Cairo dragoman, ^loliammed, who was now thoroughly 



^ The piastre equals t\Yopence-lialfpenny. 



OHAP. XVII.] 



GEOGRAPHICAL DISCUSSIONS. 



289 



installed as one of the expedition, was Avell up in the customs of 
the country, and he quietly resented the insult of the pipe. 

"He gently approached with a bottle of water, which he 
poured politely into the boAvl, as though he was conferring a 
favour ; at the same time, he explained that in my presence 
every one smoked water instead of tobacco. The hint was imme- 
diately taken, and the huge pipe, thus summarily extinguished, 
was handed to a slave in attendance. 




BOTTLE-GOUED OF UNTORO. (fROM THE ORIGINAL.) 

''We now entered upon geographical discussions. All the 
chiefs declared that the M'wootan Wzige extends beyond 
Karagw6, and that it exceeds the Victoria N'yanza in size. The 

u 



290 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, xvii- 



native name, in Unyoro, for tlie Victoria is'yaiiza is simply 
IST'y^^^z^j foi' ^^^^6 White ^^ile, Masaba. 

"There is a country called Barega on the Alb<^rt iSi"'yanza, 
south-west of Uganda, governed by a powerful king whose 
people are armed with bows, and arrows that are feathered. 
I have never yet seen feathered arrows among the AVhite Kile 
tribes. 

"The great mountain Bartooma is again mentioned, as on 
my former journey. I imagine it must be identical with, the 
M'fumbiro of Sj^eke. 

"I shall send an expedition from Magungo to Ibrahiraeyah 
by river to prove the capabilities of the route. I shall form a 
station at jNIagungo to trade witli Malegga on the opposite shore. 
I sliall then thorougldy explore the Albert ]N''yanza in boats, and 
afterwards proceed to King M'tese of Uganda .... 

" It rained last evening and during the night. Seven cows 
died. I ha-^'c erected a comfortable stable for the horses. 

" Ajrril 1. — The people belonging to Suleiman hesitate to 
accept the government pay, although a day or two ago they 
enlisted. I fear that these people can never be trusted. I shall 
give them a little tune to consider, after which, if they refuse to 
serve, I shall turn them out of the country. Every camp or 
zareeba is of course full of slaves. 

" There is a curious custom throughout Uuyoro : a peculiar caste 
are cattle-keepers. These people only attend to the herds, and the 
profession is inherited from past generations. They are called 
Bohooma, and they are the direct descendants of the Gallas who 
originally conquered the country, and, like the reigning family, 
they are of an extremely light colour. If the herds are carried 
off in battle, the Bohooma, who never carry arms, accompany 
them to their new masters, and continue their employment. 
jS'othing but death will separate them from their cattle. 

Ajyr/l 2. — The natives built a zareeba yesterday for the 
cattle ; but they are dying as rapidly as upon the north side of 
the river. 

" I tried to do a little geography ^vith the sheik, Pittia. He 
was the man who, some years ago, first gave me the information 
respecting the distance of the Albert X 'yanza from IM'rooli. He 
would say nothing without orders from the king, beyond telling 
me that you might travel for months upon the lake. 

"It is very annoying in this country that no information can 
be obtained, neither can any work be commenced, without the 
direct order of the king. My patience is sorely tried. IS^o reply 



CHAP. XVII.] ARRIVAL OF PRINCIPAL CHIEFS. 



291 



has as yet been delivered to my message sent to Kabba Eega, 
although ten days have elapsed. 

" My desire is to benefit the country by opening the road for 
legitimate commerce; but the difficulties are great, as the king will 
endeavour to monopolize the market, and thus prevent free trade. 

April 3. — I sent for all the great sheiks to complain of 
Kabba Rega's conduct. This young fellow was evidently aping 
the manners of his father, Kamrasi, and attempting to show his 
own importance by keeping me waiting. The sheiks explained, 
that before my arrival, Suleiman had agreed to furnish soldiers 
to assist the forces of Kabba Rega in a united attack upon 
Eionga ; and the army was now only a short distance from this 
spot, expecting the promised aid. My arrival had upset all their 
plans, as I had forbidden all action until I should have had a 
personal interview with Kabba Rega. 

" The military operations were in abeyance until a reply 
should be received from the kinsf. The return messenjjers were 

o o 

expected this evening. 

" The sheiks declare that the ruling class in this country are 
all exceedingly light in complexion ' because they do no work, 
but sit in the shade and drink abundance of milk.' 

" The natives of Unyoro are very inferior in pliijsiqm to tho 
Fatiko. Tills is the result of vegetable food without either cereals 
or flesh. None of the general public possess cattle \ thus the food 
of the people from infancy, after their mothers' milk has ceased, 
is restricted to plantains and the watery sweet potatoes. The 
want of milk is very detrimental to the children. The men 
generally exhibit a want of muscle, and many are troubled with 
cutaneous diseases. 

April 4. — The messengers are reported to have arrived from 
Kabba Rega. Last evening, at 8 p.m., we had a very heavy 
storm of rain with thunder. Fifteen cows died to-day, and I 
fear Ave shall lose the greater portion of the herd. All cattle 
that may bo brought from the countries of Bari, Madi, and 
Langgo, are said to die on arrival in Unyoro. 

" Aiiril 5. — The great sheiks, Rahonka and Kittakara, arrived, 
together with Lokara and Quonga, and the smaller fry, Pittia 
and ]\Iallegge. The latter was my guide to the Albert i^I'yanza 
many j^ears ago. 

" The ' Forty Thieves ' and the band received them on arrival. 
The band was, of course, encored, all being delighted with the 
big drum and the cymbals. The latter were examined as great 
curiosities. 

U2 



292 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVll. 



" Ralionka is Kamrasi's maternal uncle, and is great-nncle to 
Kabba E/iga ; and lie can give more information than any man 
concerning the neighbouring countries. 

" In reply to my inquiries about Livingstone, he says that two 
persons are living in a large house in Karagwe, which they have 
constructed in a different form to those of the natives. These 
people have no military escort, but they possess a large quantity 
of goods. This does not sound like Livingstone, unless he may 
have joined some Arab merchant. 

" There are natives of Karagwe now visiting Kabba Eega at 
Masindi ; thus I shall have a good opportunity of making 
inquiries. There are likewise envoys from M'tese in this country ; 
therefore I shall be able to send him a valuable jDresent, and beg 
him to search for Livingstone in all directions. 

'¦^ April 6. — Kabba Koga's messengers presented themselves, 
with an ofFermg of two cows, a parcel of salt, and some plantains. 

" One of these cows is a splendid animal from L^miro. She is 
the size of a fair Durham — bright red colour — with immensely 
long and massive horns. 

" Had I not had former experience in this country, and pro- 
vided myself with a herd of cattle, we should have been half- 
starved, as there is nothing to be procured but beans, sweet 
j)otatoes, and plantains. 

" April 7.- — AYe all crossed the river in canoes. A heavy 
shower fell this morning. INIy improvident men have torn all 
their waterproof cloaks and blankets just as we have arrived in 
a country where they will be most recjuired. 

April 8. — It now rains daily, more or less. The order was 
given by Kabba Eega that we were to be supplied with carriers 
for the journey to Masindi, which is to be under the charge of 
Eahonka. Suleiman and Eddrees have arranged with their men, 
all of whom now present in the camp have agreed to accept the 
government rate of pay, and to enlist for twelve months. I 
accordingly issued serkis, or certificates, for each man, with his 
name, date of engagement, and rate of wages. 

" Tliis is very satisfiictory, as I shall now have a station in my 
rear on the river, with the command of boats, while I march up 
the country to Masindi. The irregulars in this station, Avhich is 
in the district of Eoweera, number sixty-five men. If they 
remain faithful, they will form a nucleus for the irregulars who 
will most probably follow their example. I understand that a 
small party of seventeen men are now staying with Kabba Eega. 
These people will join their comrades under Suleiman, and raise 



OHAP. XVII.] 



A NATIVE SEEKS REFUGE. 



293 



the strength of the Foweera station to eighty-two men. I shall 
thus be able to keep up a communication with my detachment 
at Fatiko. 

" A]Dril 9. — At the expiration of Agad's contract there were 
188 elephants' tusks in the zareeba of Suleiman. These will 
remain in his care. 

" The natives collected were insufficient to convey^ all the 
loads. I therefore sent off a division, escorted by Morgian Agha 
with ten men, to await my arrival at the village of Deang. The 
sheik, Eahonka, killed a man who attempted to evade the order 
to carry baggage. 

Ayril 10.— Eain fell throughout the night, which makes 
everybody miserable. During the middle watch, having been 
awakened by the heavy shower, I heard the sentry ontside my 
tent muttering a kind of low chant : — ' This is the country for 
rain and potatoes ; this is the place for potatoes and rain. 
Potatoes and rain, potatoes and rain ; rain and potatoes, rain and 
potatoes.' 

"Neither the rain nor the potatoes were esteemed by the 
troops. The roots were almost as watery as the rain, and their 
sweetness was excessive. A very uncomfortable result from this 
vapid food Avas extreme flatulence. The waist-belts of the boys 
were obliged to be let out by several holes at the buckles. As 
my men justly declared, ' They were uncomfortably full after a 
meal ; but half-an-hour's march made them feel as though they 
had fasted for a day.' 

"During the afternoon I was sitting beneath a shady tree, 
with my wife and Lieutenant Baker, when a naked native rushed 
wildly past the sentries, and, before he could be restrained threw 
himself on the ground and embraced my feet, at the same time 
begging for mercy by the Arabic ejaculation, ' Aman ! amau ! ' 

" He was immediately seized. On examination through an 
interpreter, it appeared that he was a native of Koitch, near 
Fatiko, and that he had attached himself to Suleiman's party at 
some former time, but now he had just escaped from the Foweera 
station, as Suleiman wished to kill him. 

" In a few minutes Suleiman himself appeared : he was pale 
with rage. 

" Suleiman was a thorough brigand in appearance. His father 
was a Kurd : thus his complexion would have been white had 
he not beeu for many years exposed to the African climate. 
He was a powerful dare-devil-looking fellow, but even among his 
own people he was reputed cruel and vindictive. 



294 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XVII. 



" He was so overpowered with passion that he approached and 
kissed my hand at the same time imploring me, ' as a favour, to 
allow him to cut oflf the native's head with his sabre.' 

Upon a trial of the case, I found that the native was a thief, 
and that upon a former occasion he had stolen a gun and two 
pistols from the camp, which, after some trouble, had been 
recovered. He was now accused of aiding and abetting at the 
escape of five female slaves from the zareeba during the past 
night, therefore he wa^ to be beheaded without delay. 

As this was not my form of punishment, especially for the 
crime of releasing slaves that had been captured by force, I 
ordered the native to be secured in the zareeba until farther 
orders, but on no account should he be injured. 

" Although I had heard from my old Cairo dragoman, Moham- 
med, that the prisoner was a bad character, I did not wish to 
punish him severely, as the effect among the natives of the country 
would be disastrous. He had run to me for protection, there- 
fore, should he suffer, a precedent would be established that 
would deter others from appealing to me for mercy. 

" The man was led away under a guard and was secured in 
the zareeba. Suleiman acknowledged that he was in an inex- 
cusable rage, but that I had been just in my decision, and he 
would keep the prisoner in safe custody until further orders. 
Suleiman was to accompany me on the journey to Masindi on 
the following morning, as Ealionka had collected the native 
carriers. 

" That evening, after a heavy shower, we witnessed one of 
those remarkable appearances of the winged white ants that 
issued from a mound within a few yards of our tent. Millions 
of these large fat insects struggled into their ephemeral flight, 
and were quickly caught by our people v/ith lighted wisps of 
straw. The ant disengages its wings a few minutes after its 
appearance from the parent mound. 

" The exodus from the ant-hill takes place 'annually at the 
commenceinent of the rainy season, and the collection of the 
insects is considered to be an important harvest throughout all 
Central Africa. The white ant, in this stage of its existence, is 
esteemed as a great delicacy Avhen fried in a little butter, 

"We tasted a considerable number, and found them tolerably 
good, but with a slight flavour of burnt feathers. 

"On April 11 we were ready to start, but at the last moment 
the vakeel, Suleiman, who was to accompany us, excused himself 
until the next day, as he had some important business to transact 



OHAP. XVII.] SULEIMAN'S INTRIGUES. 



295 



with his people. I accordingly gave him permission to remain, 
but I ordered him to follow me quickly, as it would be necessary 
to present him to Kabba Eega in his new position as vakeel of 
the government." .... 

It will now be necessary to explain the true position of affairs, 
which at that time I did not suspect. 

Upon my first arrival at the river, when I had explained my 
views to Suleiman, he had immediately despatched a letter to 
Abou Saood at Fatiko. His party had travelled fast, and they 
returned with an answer. 

I could never discover the actual contents of the letter in 
reply, but I heard that it cautioned Suleiman not to part with 
the slaves, and to join Abou Saood with his ivory and all his 
people at the station of Fabbo, a day's march west of Fatiko. 

Suleiman was in an awkward position. He had always held 
a high place in the eyes of Kabba Rega and his chiefs, and his 
alliance had been courted and obtained for a combined attack 
upon the old enemy, Rionga. The army of Kabba Eega had 
been waiting at the rendezvous in expectation of Suleiman's 
assistance. A fleet of large canoes had been concentrated at a 
given point for the invasion of the island ; and Kabba Eega and 
his sheiks considered that at length their old enemy was in the 
snare. 

My unexpected arrival had ruined the project, as I strictly 
forbade Suleiman to attack Eionga. 

This disappointed Kabba Eega and his people, who could not 
understand how I could be the friend of his late father Kamrasi, 
and at the sam.e time protect his enemy Eionga. 

The attack on the island was a dangerous adventure, as it was 
surrounded by dense masses of papyrus rush that would prevent 
canoes from landing, except at certain places were narrow pas- 
sages had been cleared. A few men concealed among the papyrus 
could massacre an attacking party at discretion, as they struggled 
through the narrow entrance in canoes. It had been proposed 
that Suleiman's people were to attack in boats and clear out the 
enemy by a sharp fire into the papyrus to cover the general 
advance. 

Suleiman was in a dilemma, as he liad already promised 
alliance, and had received a quantity of ivory in payment for his 
services. He liad accordingly made the following secret arrange- 
ment with Eahonka and Lokara : — "Let the Pacha and his 
soldiers start for Masindi, and he will suppose that Suleiman 
will follow on the morrow ; instead of which, he will at once 



296 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVII. 



join Kabba Eega's forces, and attack Eionga, when the Pacha 
shall be several days' journey distant from the river." 

On his return to Foweera from a successful invasion of 
Eionga's island, the commanders of the forces, Lokara and 
Eahonka, were at once to furnish carriers to transport Suleiman 
with all his people and ivory to the Fabbo station, according to 
the instructions received from Abou Saood. 

I should thus be deceived, and be left at jMasindi, 160 miles 
distant from my detachment at Fatiko, without the power of 
communication. 

At 8.30 A.M. we were in the saddle, and started from Foweera. 
Suleiman came to kiss my hand at my departure. AYe rode at 
once into the low forest, and as the last man of our party dis- 
appeared from view, Suleiman returned to his zareeba. He then 
prepared for vengeance, which through my presence had long 
been delayed. 

He and his ferocious people dragged the prisoner (whose life I 
had protected) from the camp, until they arrived at a thick grove 
of plantains about 200 paces from the station. Ealioiika, Lokara, 
Quonga, Matonse, and. other principal chiefs, were summoned to 
witness the impotence of the Pacha's power to save ; and to see 
with their own eyes the defiance that Suleiman would exhibit to 
the orders of a Christian. 

" JN'ow let the natives clasp the knees of the Pacha and defy 
the power of Suleiman ! " 

The ruffian drew his sabre, and with his own hand, in the 
presence of a crowd of witnesses, he hacked off the head of the 
unfortunate prisoner, and thus publicly ridiculed my authority. 

In the mean time, while this murder was being committed, wo 
were travelling onward without a suspicion of treachery.^ 

Accompanied by Lady Baker, I rode at the head of the party 
with my usual advanced guard of five picked men of " The 
Forty." Lieutenant Baker walked on foot, as he wished to save 
his horse's back that was slightly galled. 

We rode far in advance, as there was no danger to be appre- 
hended in this country, and my five guards with knapsacks, small 
axes, and general accoutrements, kept the pace of four miles an 
hour for about twent3^-one miles to Kisoona. The march had 
been through forest, and grass about four feet in height, which 

^ It will be seen how by degrees I became acquainted with the crime and 
designs of Suleiman, who had already secretly forAvarded instructions to his 
men at jNIasindi at tiie same time that he had communicated in his rear 
with Abou Saood at Fatiko. 



OHAP. Kvii.] TOBACCO GARDENS. 



297 



was now growing vigorously after the recent showers. The large 
trees were covered with orchids, among which I noticed a peculiar 
species which hung from the boughs like an apron. This was 
exceedingly pretty, as the leaf was about eighteen inches in 
breadth, the edges were scalloped and of a copper-brown colour, 
while the upper portion was dark green. 

The whole country had been desolated by civil war, in which 
the companions of Abou Saood had taken a prominent part, and 
had carried off a great number of the women. 

Kisoona was a poor straggling place in the centre of the forest ; 
but although the behive-shaped huts were far apart, there was 
the usual amount of filth and ashes that disgrace the villages of 
Unyoro. A very large plantation of bananas afforded food for 
the inhabitants, all of whom seemed to have disappeared. 

Throughout Unyoro the soil is exceedingly rich ; the tobacco 
gardens exhibited an extreme luxuriance, and the size of the 
leaves formed a great contrast to the plants in the hot soil of the 
Bari country. 

I placed a sentry over the tobacco, and cautioned the troops 
against stealing or in any Avay damaging the crops. 

A native of Umiro travelled as our interpreter. This man was 
a confidential slave belonging to Kabba Rega, and formed one of 
his regiment. Umbogo (or the " Buffalo ") was a higlily intelli- 
gent fellow, and spoke good Arabic, as he had been constantly 
associated with the Arab slave-traders. I had supplied him with 
clothes, and he looked quite respectable in a blue shirt belted 
round the waist, with a cartouche-pouch of leopard's skin, that 
had been given him by the people of the zareeba. Umbogo 
carried a musket, and was altogether a very important personage, 
although a slave. 

The long march of twenty-one miles, through forest, along a 
rough and narrow path, had delayed the carriers and the cattle. 
Although my men had stepped along so briskly, the rear-guard did 
not arrive until the evening. A tremendous downpour of rain 
deluged the ground. This was a godsend to us, who Avere well 
housed and tented, as we caught a good supply of water witli 
the mackintosh camp-sheets that was very superior to the con- 
tents of a small pool, which usually sufficed for the village 
people. 

I always travelled with a large sponging bath, which was one 
of the household gods of the expedition. This was now full of 
pure rain water. The value of this old friend was incalculable. 
In former years I had crossed the Atbara river in this same 



298 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XVII. 



bath, laslied upon an angareb (stretcher), supported by inflated 
skins. Without extra flotation it would support my weight, 
and it was always used when crossing a small stream, assisted 
by two men Avading, one of whom held it on either side to 
prevent it from overturning. Thus we could travel Avithout the 
necessity of plunging into deep mud and water. 

Such a utensd was invaluable for watering the horses ; also 
for washing clothes, or for receiving a supply of rain-water 
during a shower, from the camp-sheets suspended above the bath. 

The neighbourhood of Kisoona was very populous^ but the 
villages were all concealed in the forest, amidst vast groves of 
bananas. 

There was a large tract of potato cultivation ; a supply of 
these Avelconie roots was with difficulty obtained from the 
natives. 

It appeared to be a repetition of my former experience in this 
country, which unpleasantly reminded me of the scarcity of food 
during my first exploration of Unyoro. 

On the following morning (12tli April), when the horses were 
saddled and we were ready to start, not a single native was 
forthcoming. Every man of about 200 carriers had absconded ! 

"Although Rahonka had assured me^ previous to starting 
from the river, that food would be ready for the troops at every 
halting-place, nothing has been prepared. We are thus left as 
much neglected as during my former voyage in this detestable 
country. There is not one sheik with us, although three prin- 
cipal chiefs were told off to accompany us to ^fasindi. I there- 
fore told our friend Pittia that I should not proceed farther, as 
I would have nothing to do with so miserable a king as Kabba 
Eega. 

" I immediately sent Colonel Abd-el-Kader back to Foweera 
with thii'ty men, and a letter to Suleiman, ordering him to 
collect 300 men at once to return my effects to his zareeba. X 
tied Pittia, the guide, by a small cord attached to the neck, as I 
feared he also might escape. What can be done with these 
treacherous people ] 

There is a report, now confirmed by the dragoman, Umbogo, 
that a plan had been arranged between Suleiman and Rahonka 
that I should be led out of their way, and they would then join 
their forces and attack Rionga. 

"I do not believe that Sideiman would place his head in 
such a halter. 

" Yery heavy rain at 1 p.m, 



CHAP. XVII.] 



ABD-EL-KADER'S REPORT. 



299 



April 13. — The soil is wonderfully fertile — this is a choco- 
late-coloured vegetable loam. Among the crops is a species of 
esculent solanum, with large orange- coloured berries; both the 
fruit and leaves are eaten by the natives. 

I repaired my boots to-day with the milk from the india- 
rubber-tree. Julian (Lieutenant Baker) had fever. Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader and party returned at 2.40 p.m., having marched 
rapidly, and accomplished their mission and a journey of forty- 
two miles in twenty-seven hours and forty minutes. 

" This excellent officer brought with him, secured by a small 
leather thong, by the neck, the great sheiks Kittakara, Matonse, 
and several smaller fry. 

" The royal sheik, Eahonka, escaped by breaking through the 
side of his hut. 

" The report was as follows : — 

" Colonel Abd-el-Kader and his party of thirty men had 
arrived at Suleiman's zareeba at about 8 p.m. He found the 
vakeels, Suleiman and Eddrees, surrounded by many of their 
men, apparently in consultation. 

" Upon Abd-el-Kader's appearance, the men moved off, one by 
one, and quietly packed up their effects, preparatory to a general 
flight. 

"Abd-el-Kader informed Suleiman of the desertion of our 
carriers. He then at once proceeded to the native zareeba, 
about 200 yards from the camp. He there found the principal 
sheiks in the hut of Rahonka. 

''Abd-el-Kader immediately informed them of the purport of 
his arrival, and requested the sheiks to accompany him to the 
zareeba of Suleiman. Rahonka begged to be left alone for a 
short time to enable him to dress. 

"Abd-el-Kader waited outside the door of the hut, and, 
becoming tired of so long a delay, he re-entered, and to his 
astonishment found the dwelling empty. Rahonka had escaped 
by a hole in the straw wall. 

" Suspicion being raised by the incomprehensible flight of 
Rahonka, the colonel placed the remaining sheiks under a 
guard, and led them to Suleiman's zareeba. He then applied to 
Suleiman for a guard of eight men to watch the sheiks during 
the night, as his own party required rest. 

" Suleiman now informed him that he could not supply the 
men, as all his people had absconded from fear (of Abd-el- 
Kader). 

" On the following morning the colonel perceived, from the 



300 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XVII. 



smoke above our old camp on the opposite side of the river 
(which in this part is 500 yards broad), that Suleiman's people 
had escaped during the night, and had crossed the river with all 
their slaves and effects, 

" This was the first act of my new irregular levy — they had 
positively run away from the colonel like a parcel of hostile 
natives ! 

" Suleiman and Eddrees declared that they could not control 
their men, who were afraid that I had ordered my officer to 
release the slaves that were in their possession. ^ 

" Abd-el-Kader ordered Suleiman to accompany him to my 
halting-place at Kisoona. Suleiman declined upon the excuse 
that he had some business, but that he would present himself 
to-morrow." 

" I can stand these scoundrels' conduct no longer. I have 
tried lenient measures, and I had hoped that by forming Sulei- 
man's party into an irregular corps I might be able, by degrees, 
to change their habits, and to reduce them ' by good discipline 
into useful troops, but ' Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or 
the leopard his spots 1 ' 

^' I immediately released and examined the captive sheiks, 
who one and all declared that the fault lay with Suleiman, who 
had previously arranged the plan with Eahonka : that when 
I should be led away a distance of two days' journey, he 
would assemble his men and attack Eionga in conjunction with 
Eahonka's army. 

The report of Umbogo, the dragoman, is thus corroborated 
by overwhelming evidence. This man, Umbogo, declares that 
Abou Saood wrote to Suleiman, instructing him to wait until 
I should have passed on, and then to bring all his slaves to 
Fabbo. 

" I immediately sent Captain Mohammed Deii with fifty men, 
including twenty-five of the "Forty Thieves," with orders to 
liberate all slaves that might be discovered within the zareeba. 
He was to summon all the people of Suleiman, and to disarm 
those Avho had rim away from the colonel, Abd-el-Kader. 

" In the event of resistance, he was to use the force at his 
disposal, and at all hazards to prevent the escape of the slavers 
across the river. 

" Suleiman and Eddrees were to be brought before me. 

^ The truth Avas they considered that I had heard of the murder of the 
prisoner committed to the care of Suleiman, and that I had sent the 
colonel and his party to make inquiries. 



OHAP. XVII.] SULEIMAN TAKEN INTO CUSTODY. 



301 



A heavy shower fell just after the troops started. 

"Ajwil 14. — Julian's horse, Gazelle, died last night; the poor 
animal had been ill for some days. 

" Quonga, who is the sheik of this district, came this morning 
and excused his absence in rather a lame fashion, by saying that 
he had been collecting food for the troops, together Avitli carriers, 
who are now ready to transport the baggage to Masindi. He 
declared that Kabba Et%a was impatient, and had sent three of 
Suleiman's people to deliver the message to me, but these rascals 
had passed on this morning direct to the zareeba of Suleiman, 
without communicating with us on the way. 

" Quonga not only corroborated the testimony of the sheiks 
and the dragoman, TJmbogo, against Suleiman, as having con- 
spired to attack Eionga after my departure, but he gave ad- 
ditional evidence, that ' Suleiman had told Eahonka and the 
great sheiks that I, the Pacha, knew nothing about war, that 
none of the government troops could shoot, and that I should 
only travel and subsist upon the country, but that he (Sulei- 
man) would join them and kill Eionga after I should have 
departed.' 

" This I believe to be true, as a few days ago, when sjDcaking 
of the troops, I told Suleiman that the Soudanis were very 
hardy soldiers for marching and resisting climate, but that 
generally they were bad sliots. Thus, in a treacherous manner, 
he has informed the natives that the soldiers of the government 
cannot shoot. In the afternoon, fresh reports reached me that 
Suleiman had, with his own hands, murdered the native to 
whom I had given protection. He had committed this horrible 
act the instant that my back was turned, and he had exhibited 
the crime before the great sheiks in derision of my authority ! 

"At 4.30 P.M. Captain Mohammed Deii returned with his 
party of fifty men, together with the vakeels, Suleiman and 
Eddrees, with six of their men who had been met upon their 
road from Masindi, and eight slaves. 

"As I had expected, the greater number of Suleiman's people 
had escaped with their slaves to Fabbo, when the Colonel, Abd- 
el-Kader, had suddenly appeared among them ; his arrival had 
disconcerted all Sulieman's arrangements, and my detention at 
Kisoona had completely upset all his plans respecting an alliance 
with Eahonka's army. That cunning general had gone off 
straight to Kabba Eega after his escape through the wall of his 
hut. 

*• I summoned the great sheiks, Kittakara, Quonga, together 



302 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVII. 



with Pittia^ and several others. These men gave then- evidence 
most clearly as witnesses to the plan arranged by Suleiman for 
the attack npon Eionga; and as eye-witnesses to the nuirder of 
the prisoner, whom they saw dragged by Suleiman and his men 
to the grove of bananas, where he was beheaded. 

" I ordered Suleiman and his people to be disarmed ; and 
secured both him and Eddrees in shebas. 

" The sun had set, and, the sky being over-cast, it had 
become extremely dark. 

" I proceeded at once to the trial of Suleiman and Eddrees, 
as the witnesses were all present. 

" The bugler sounded the 'taboor' (assembly), and the officers 
and troops quickly appeared, and formed in line two deep, 
facing the table at which we sat. I ordered half-a-dozen large 
port-fires to be brought ; these were lighted and held by six 
men who stepped forward from the ranks. The blaze of red 
light illumined the whole neighbourhood, and cast a peculiar 
glow U2)on the dark foliage of the bananas and the forms of the 
dusky chiefs who sat in a line opposite the troops. 

" Suleiman and Eddrees were led by the guard, and appeared 
before the tribunal. Suleiman^ although pinioned, retained the 
same haughty swagger that had always distinguished liim. The 
charcjes ai^ainst him were as follows : — 

" 1. Eor having conspired to attack Eionga in direct oppo- 
sition to my positive orders. 

" 2. Eor treasonably speaking against the government of the 
Khedive to the native chiefs. 

" 3. Eor arranging and abetting the escape of the irregular 
new levy, who had enlisted in the government service, together 
with that of the slaves. 

" 4. Eor having murdered, with his own hands, a native 
wdiom I had confided to his care. 

"After a careful trial the prisoner was found guilty upon 
every charge; and the second vakeel, Eddrees, Avas proved to 
have been an accomplice. 

" I immediately sentenced Suleiman to receive 200 lashes upon 
the spot, as a first instalment of future punishment. Eluc lights 
had been substituted for the port-hrcs that had burned out, and 
the haughty brigand, Suleiman, was laid upon the ground by the 
ready troops to receive his punishment. 

" My ever-present attendant, Monsoor, volunteered to be one 
of the whippers, and the pride and audacity of the prisoner were 
soon exchanged for effeminate cries for pardon. It v;as this same 



Chap, xvii.] 



NATIVE CHIEFS SATISFIED. 



30^ 



man, Suleiman, who had flogged a poor boy nearly to death 
during my former journey, and the life of the child had with 
difficulty been saved by the kind attention of my wife. When 
he now cried for mercy, I recalled to his recollection the unfor- 
tunate boy whose posterior he had literally ad off with a whip 
of hippopotamus' hide .... 

"Eddrees was sentenced to receive 100 lashes, but when thirty 
strokes had been administered, the native chiefs interceded in his 
behalf, saying that the great blame rested upon Suleiman, and 
that Eddrees was not a bad man, but that he was obliged to obey 
the orders of his superior. 

"They now continued, ' that Suleiman had ruined the country, 
that he had kidnapped all the women and children, and that the 
natives had fled from their homes as the result.' 

" I was much struck with the straightforward, at the same 
time moderate behaviour of the native chiefs. I accordingly 
spared Eddrees, who at once turned evidence against Suleiman, 
together with two of his own soldiers. 

" They signed a declaration as witnesses of the murder of the 
native by Suleiman. This paper was formally witnessed and 
signed by Lieutenant Baker, Colonel Abd-el-Kader, and Captain 
Mohammed Deii. 

" The punishment having been awarded and the prisoners with 
drawn, but secured in shebas by the guard, I addressed the native 
chiefs, assuring them of my protection; and that in future the 
country should be governed Avith perfect justice; that property 
and the rights of Avomen and children would be respected, and 
that any transgressor of the law would be punished. I exjolained 
that the object of the expedition was to bring prosperity; but, on 
the other hand, I should expect fidelity from Kabba Eega and 
his people. I told them that I should lead the prisoners in 
shebas to Kabba Eega, he must then summon a general assembly 
of his chiefs to hear and witness the truth. 

" I now ordered the bugler to sound the ' destoor ' (retreat), and 
the troops marched back to their quarters. 

"The trial was over; the blue lights had burnt out, and we 
were now in comparative darkness beneath the banana foliage, 
with a feeble lamp glimmering on the table. 

*' The native chiefs declared their perfect confidence in the 
government, and that w^e should start on the following morning 
direct for Masindi." 



304 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. XVIIt. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

MARCE TO MASIXDI. 

''Ajyril 15.— The latitude of Kisoona was 2° 2' 36" K We 
started at 11 a.m. till 1 p.m., reaching Kasiga — eight miles — 
through iDterminable forest full of fine ripe yellow plums and 
unripe custard apples. 

"Ajml 16.— Started at 8.20 a.m. till 12— arriving at Kold— 
thick forest throughout the march. "We passed several small 
villages, and made twelve miles, lat. 1° 59'. I gave various 
seeds of European vegetables to the headman; and I myself 
sowed the seeds of water-melons and sw^et melons in his garden, 
and explained their cultivation. 

April 17. — All the carriers have absconded. There is exten- 
sive cultivation in this district, and the tobacco is well attended, 
as the tops of the plants are carefully nipped off to prevent them 
from running too much into stalk. 

" The chief, Kittakara, who is a kind of prime minister to 
Kabba Eega, gave me this afternoon the history of the country. 

" Kabba Eega is the sixteenth king since the original conquest 
of TJnyoro by the Gallas. These invaders arrived from the East, 
beyond the country of the Langgos. 

" To this day a peculiar custom is observed. Before a new king 
can ascend the throne, he is compelled to sleep during two nights 
on the east of the Victoria ISTile. He then marches along the 
path by which his victorious ancestor invaded Unyoro, and upon 
reaching the river, he takes boat and crosses to the exact landing- 
place where the original conqueror first set his foot upon the 
frontier. 

" April 18. — I purchased a quantity of excellent tobacco and 
divided it among the soldiers as a reward for their having re- 
sjDccted the native gardens during the march. 

" Kittakara is the only gentleman that I liave seen in the coun- 
try, and he never asks for presents, thus forming an extraordinary 
exception to the rule of Unyoro societ}-. 

" I gave him a blue blanket, a zinc mirror, a spoon, comb, and 
four red and yellow handkerchiefs. To Quonga I gave a tar- 
boosh (fez), and four yards of turkey red cloth. 

Apnnl 19. — Fresh carriers arrived, and we started at 10.45 



CHAP. XVIII.] KABBA REGA AND KABKA MIRO. 



305 



A.M., and halted at 4 p.m. — tv/elve miles. Forest and higli grass 
as usual throughout the route, which Avould render this country 
highly dangerous in case of hostilities. 

" The lofty mountains on the west shore of the Albert N'yanza 
are now in view about fifty miles distant. We halted at a popul- 
ous district, and occupied a village at Chorobeze. 

" There is an impression of general ruin in passing through 
this wonderfully fertile country. The slave-hunters and their 
allies have produced this frightful result by ransacking the dis- 
trict for slaves. 

" The civil dissensions after Kamrasi's death were favourable 
for the traders' schemes. The two sons, Kabba Eega and Kabka 
Miro, contended for the throne. The latter was royally born by 
sire and mother, but Kabba Eega was a son by a shepherdess of 
the Bahoomas. The tlirone belonged by inheritance to Kabka 
Miro, who, not wishing to cause a civil war, and thus destroy 
the country, challenged his brother to single combat in the 
presence of all the people. The victor was to be kmg. 

" Kabba Eega was a coward, and refused the challenge. The 
chivalrous Kabka Miro again offered terms : — Kabba Eega, as the 
son of the shepherdess, should take all the flocks and herds; and 
Kabka Miro would occupy the throne. 

Kabba Eega, like most cowards, was exceedingly cuiuiing 
and treacherous, and, with the alliance of Suleiman's people, ho 
shot his gallant brother, and secured both the throne and his 
father's flocks. 

Ajjvil 20. — All the native carriers have, as usual, absconded. 
\Ye are now about twenty-seven miles from Masindi, the head- 
quarters of Kabba Eega, and yet there are no signs of control. 

"I ascended a small hill near the village, and sighted Iho 
waters of the Albert N'yanza, due west, about twenty miles 
distant. 

April 21. — About fifty natives collected. I sent off Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader with the prisoners to Kabba Eega to complain ol' 
the want of carriers and provisions. I ordered him to disarm iili 
the traders' peoj)le, and the Baris in their employ, who miglit be 
at Masindi; as the news has arrived that the men belonging to 
Suleiman have returned to Eoweeraand are actually taking slaves 
in the neighbourhood. 

April 22. — More natives collected. I sent off 140 loads m 
charge of Morgian Agha, with an escort of twenty soldiers, and 
the herd of cattle. The latitude of Chorobeze was 1° 57' ^. 

April 23. — The natives having collected, we started at 10.5 



308 



ISMAILiA. 



[OHAP. XVIII. 



A.M. I was obliged to wall?:, as my good liorse, ' Greedy Grey,' is 
sick. 

" The route was tkrongli forest and high grass as usual. AVe 
marched seventeen miles, and halted at immense groves of 
bananas at a place called Jon J oke. 

" The baggage and cattle arrived after sunset, Morgian Agha 
having been deserted yesterday by all the carriers. As usual, 
throughout the route the water is bad. 

" Alas ! my poor horse, ' Greedy Grey,' died to-day. He was 
the most perfect of all the horses I had brought from Cairo. 

"April 24. — As usual, the native carriers have all bolted! 
Last night a sergeant arrived with a letter addressed to me froui 
Abd-el-Kader, who has carried out my orders at ]\Iasindi by 
disarming the traders' party. 

" Ajjj'il 25. — It rained throughout the night. The carriers 
sent by Kabba Eega arrived eaii}^ We started at 8.15 a.m., and 
marched ten miles, arriving at last at the capital of Unyoro — 
Masindi. 

" This large town is situated on high undulating land with an 
extensive view, bounded on the west by the range of mountains 
bordering the Albert X'yanza, about fifty miles distant. The 
country is open, but covered with high grass. A succession of 
knolls, all more or less ornamented with park-like trees, character- 
ize the landscape, which slopes gradually down towards the west, 
and drains into the Albert X'yanza, which is about twenty miles 
distant. 

"The town of ]\Iasiiidi is, as usual throughout Unyoro, 
exceedingl}^ neglected, and is composed of some thousand large 
beehive-shaped straw huts, without any arrangement or plan. 

" I selected a position beneath a large banian-tree, from the 
base of which I cleared the herbage, and having pitched the tent, 
the natives tore up about an acre of the high grass, and Ave 
encamped upon the clean ground. 

" Kab1;a liega sent a present of twenty-nine loads of tullaboon 
(a small seed, Ekusine Coracan), a cpiantity of plantains and 
potatoes, and six goats. 

"This spot is in IST. lat. 1° '45', and is seventy-nine miles, by 
our route, from the river at Foweera. AVe are thus 322 miles by 
route from Tsmailia (Gondokoro). 

''April 26. — I visited Kabba Eega officially, with the officers 
and troops in full uniform, and the band playing. 

" I found him sitting in his divan ; this was a large neatly-con- 
structed hut, ornamented with some very common printed cotton 



OHAP. XVIII. J RELEASE OP SLAVES AT MASINBI. 



307 



cloths, wliicli had arrived via Zanzibar. Kabba Eega was very 
well clad, in beautifnlly made bark-cloth striped with black ; he 
was excessively neat, and appeared to be about twenty years of 
age. He gave me the same account of the atrocious proceedings 
of Abou Saood's companies that I had already received from his 
chiefs, and he expressed his delight at my arrival, and that I had 
captured Suleiman and some of his people. 

I ex23lained the intentions of the Khedive of Egypt, at the 
same time I lamented the terrible change that had occurred 
throughout his country since my former visit. I assured him 
that the future would be prosperous, and that, under the pro- 
tection of Egypt, he would never have further cause for alarm. 
I then summoned the prisoners that had been captured and 
disarmed by Colonel Abd-el-Kader ; and having explained the 
charges against them, they were publicly flogged in the presence 
of a multitude of Kabba Eega's people, while Suleiman and 
Eddrees were led away in shebas, to the astonishment and delight 
of all beholders. 

"The slaves that had been discovered in the possession of 
Suleiman's people were now brought forward, and having been 
identified by Kabba Rega and his people as belonging to Unyoro, 
they were at once released, and I returned both young girls and 
boys to their country. One woman did not wish to leave the 
traders, as she had been married to one of the company for some 
years, and had several children. 

"I explained that they were actually free — to remain with 
their captors, or to return to their homes, as they thought proper. 

" This was a good opportunity for assuring both Kabba Rega 
and this people that I should restore all the slaves that had been 
carried out of their country to the various stations of Abou 
Saood at Fatiko, Eabbo, Ealoro, &c. 

"I described to the young king and his chiefs that I M'-as 
determined to suppress the slave trade, and that I had hitherto 
forborne to interfere in the release of the slaves at the various 
stations, as it would have been impossible to have returned them 
to their distant homes, neither could I have supplied them Avith 
food. I was now at Masindi, beyond the farthest station of 
Abou Saood, and I should certainly insist upon the return of every 
slave that had been kidnapped from this country. This would 
at once prove to the inhabitants of Unyoro the benefit of the 
Khedive's protection.^ 

1 The subsequent attack made by the slave-traders upon the government 

X 3 



308 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVIII. 



" April 27. — Kabba Eega had arranged to return my visit. 

" I bad ordered a broad roadway to be cleared from Kabba 
Rega's divan to my tent, which was pitched beneath an enormous 
fig-tree or banian (Ficus Indica). The troops were lined on 
either side of this approach in their best uniforms. 

" The band was stationed near the tent, which was spread with 
skins and small carpets, all the sides being open. 

" An hour and a half passed awa}^ after the first messenger liad 
arrived from Kabba Eega to announce his visit. One after 
another, messengers had hurried to assure me that the king was 
just now approaching; but still the troops remained in expecta- 
tion, and no king made an appearance. 

" At length, after this long delay, he sent Eahonka to say that 
* if it was all the same to me, he would rather see me at his own 
house.' 

''This unmannerly young cub was actually suspicious of foul 
play, and was afraid to enter my tent ! 

"I immediately told Eahonka that his king was evidently not 
old enough to have learnt good manners, therefore I should at 
once dismiss the troops, who had already been v/aiting for nearly 
two hours to do him honour. 

"I ordered the bugler to sound the ' destoor,' and the troops 
at once obeyed the signal. 

" Terrified at the sound of the bugle, which was known to be 
some mysterious order, Eahonka implored me not to be angry, 
and he would at once bring Kabba Eega to the tent. The 
troops resumed their position. 

" In a few minutes a great din of horns, drums, and wliistles 
announced his approach, and we observed him walking down 
the road with an extraordinary gait. ¦ He was taking enormous 
strides, as though caricaturing the walk of a giraife. This v>^as 
supposed to be an imitation of M'tese, the king of Uganda, 
whose ridiculous attempt to walk like a lion has been described 
by Speke. 

" Kabba Eega thus stalked along, followed by his great chiefs, 
Kittakara, ]\[atonse, Eahonka, Quonga, and a number of others. 
Upon arrival opposite the band, the bugles and drums suddenly 
commenced with such a clash of cymbals that he seemed rather 

troops and myself at Fatiko was due to this declaration that all slaves 
should he taken away from their captors and retained to their homes. It 
v.'ill be seen later that I sent orders to the counuandant of my station at 
Fatiko to release all slaves, and this command was resisted by Abou Saood 
and his people. 



i 



CHAP. XVIII.] 



KABBA REGA'S VISIT. 



309 



startled, and he entered the tent in the most undignified manner, 
with an air of extreme shyness half concealed by audacity. 

He was trembling with nervous anxiety, and with some 
hesitation he took his seat upon the divan that had been pre- 
pared for him. His principal chiefs sat upon skins and carpets 
arranged upon the ground. 

A crowd of about 2,000 people had accompanied him, making 
a terrific noise with wdiistles, horns, and drums. These were now 
silenced, and the troops formed a guard around the tent to keep 
the mob at a respectful distance. Every now and then several 
men of Kabba Kega's body-guard rushed into the crowd and laid 
about them Avith bludgeons fi.ve feet long, hitting to the right 
and left. This always chased the people away for a few minutes, 
until, by degrees, they resumed their position. Everybody was 
dressed up for a grand occasion, mostly in new clothes of bark- 
cloth, and many were in skins of wild animals, with their heads 
fantasticall}'- ornamented with the horns of goats or antelopes. 
The sorcerers were an important element. These rascals, who 
are the curse of the country, were, as usual, in a curious mas- 
querade with fictitious beards manufactured with a number of 
bushy cows' tails. 

" Kabba E(^ga was about five feet ten inches in height, and of 
extremely light complexion. His eyes were very large, but pro- 
jected in a disagreeable manner. A broad but low forehead and 
high cheek-bones, added to a large mouth, with rather prominent 
but exceedingly white teeth, complete the description of his face. 
His hands were beautifully shaped, and his finger-nails were 
carefully pared and scrupulously clean. The nails of his feet 
were equally well attended to. He wore sandals of raw buffalo- 
hide, but neatly formed, and turned up round the edges. 

^' His robe of bark-cloth, which completely covered his body, 
was exquisitely made, and had been manufactured in Uganda, 
which country is celebrated for this curious production. 

" This was Kabba Eega, the son of Kamrasi, the sixteenth 
king of Unyoro, of the Galla conquerors, a gauche, awkward, 
undignified lout of twenty years of age, who thought himself a 
great monarch. He Avas cowardly, cruel, cunning, and treacherous 
to the last degree. I^ot only had he ordered the destruction of 
his brother, Kabka Miro, but after his death, he had invited all 
his principal relations to visit him ; these he had received with 
the greatest kindness, and at parting, he had presented them 
with gifts, together with an escort of his body-guard, called 
bonasoora, to see them safe liome. These men, by the young 



310 



iSMAILIA. 



[chap. XTllI. 



king's mstriictions, murdered them all in the high grass during 
their return journey. By these means he had got rid of trouble- 
some relations, and he now sat secui'ely npon the throne Avith 
only one great enemy ; this was Eionga, the stanch and deter- 
mined foe of his fatlier, vvho had escaped from every ireachery, 
and still lived to defy him in the north-eastern provinces of 
Unyoro. 

" It was easy to understand that he would welcome my arrival 
with a force sufficiently large to assist him against Rionga, and 
at the same time to rid him of Suleiman's party. He made use 
of the latter force as mercenary troops, to which he was obliged 
to allow boundless license ; otherwise he might be invaded by 
the whole povrer of the combined companies of Fabbo, Faloro, 
Fatiko, and Farragenia. These companies might at any time 
change sides and ally themselves Avitli Eionga, thus, could I clear 
the country of such doubtful allies, he would be relieved from all 
cause of alarm." 

I^otwithstanding these advantages, the 3"0ung king sat uneasily 
upon his divan, and appeared timid and suspicious. According 
to Turkish etiquette, a handsome cTiihouque, trniimecl with blue, 
silk and gold, was handed to him. He examined tlie amber 
mouth-piece but declined to smoke, as tobacco would blacken 
his teeth;" this Avas a carious excuse from a Central African 
dandy. 

I begged him to accept the long pipe as a reminiscence of my 
arrival. Coffee and sherbet '.vere then handed to him, but he 
declined both, and insisted upon two of his chiefs drinking the 
whole ; during which operation he watched them attentively, as 
though in expectation of some poisonous effect. 

This was conduct that boded no good for future relations. My 
wife tried to converse with hiin. through the interpreter, TJmbogo,. 
Kabba Eega then explained that he recollected us both, as he 
was one of a crowd when a boy on the day we started from 
M'rooli for the Albert N'yanza. 

The conversation quickly turned upon Eionga, whom he de- 
clared must be either captured or killed, before any improvement 
could take place in the country. The young king assumed that 
it was already arranged that I should a-sist him in this laudable 
object. I now changed the conversation by ordering a large 
metal box to be brought in. Tliis had already been tilled with 
an assortment of presents, including a watch. I explained to 
him that the latter had been intuuded for his father, Kamrasi, 
in the recollection of his constant demands for my watch daring 



CHAP. XVIII.] I AM REQUESTED TO KILL KIONZA. 



311 



my former visit. The new toy was ticking loudlj^, and it Avas of 
course handed round and held, to the ear of each chief before it 
was replaced in the box. 

Kahba Rega replied that ''he knew I had been a great friend 
of his father, Kamrasi, and that I had now brought many valu- 
able presents for him; but I must not forget, that, although the 
father was dead, the son (himself) was still alive, therefore I 
might at once hand over to him all that I had intended for his 
parent." 

This was a true son of his father in the art of begging. I 
replied, that "hens did not lay all their eggs in one day, but con- 
tinued one by one; and that I hoped, when I should know him 
better, he would discover the advantage of commerce, as the vari- 
ous goods that had now been introduced were intended to exhibit 
the manufactures of my own country. These would continue to 
arrive in Unyoroto be exchanged for ivory." 

I then exhibited the large musical box with drums and bells. 
This was one of the best instruments of its kind, and it played 
a remarkably good selection of airs, which quite charmed the 
audience. Among the presents I had given to Kabba Rega was 
a small musical snuff-box. This was now wound up and exhi- 
bited, but the greedy young fellow at once asked " Yihj I did 
not give him the large box 1 " 

I gave him a regular lecture upaii the advantages of commerce 
that would introduce an important change in this extraordinary 
country ; at the same time I recalled to his recollection, that I 
had i)romised his father to open u^^ a commercial route by which 
the productions and manufactures of the north should arrive in 
TJnyoro, and render that country even more prosperous than 
Uganda. I had now arrived, as the lieutenant of the Khedive, 
according to my promise, and the whole of the equatorial Nile 
basis would be taken under his protection. No unnecessary wars 
would be permitted, but he (Kabba Eega) would remiaiii as the 
representative of the government, and the affairs of the country 
would be conducted through him alone. 

I assured him that no country could prosper without industry 
and a good government; that agriculture was the foundation of 
a country's wealth ; and that war or civil disturbance, which in- 
terfered with agricultural employment, would ruin the kingdom. 
He replied that " Rionga was the sole cause of war ; therefore it 
would be necessary to destroy him before any improvements 
could be made. If Eionga were killed and the slave-hunters 
expelled from the country, there might be some hope of progress; 



312 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XVIII. 



but that it was -^vasting breatli to talk of commerce and 
agriculture until Rionga should be destroyed." 

This was Kamrasi's old tune once more dinned into my ears. 
In my former journey I had been deserted by my carriers and 
starved for three months at Shooa Moru, simply to induce me to 
yield to this repeated demand : " Kill Rionga ; or give me your 
men to assist me against him." 

From what I had heard I considered that Rionga must be a 
very fine fellow, and much superior to either Kamrasi or his 
son. 

In my former journey I had accomplished a long and difficult 
exploration without firing a shiot at a human being; and I had 
studiously avoided meddling in native politics,, which is certain 
to involve a traveller in difficulty. It had always been a source 
of great satisfaction when I looked back to my past adventures, 
and reflected that I had never pulled a trigger at a native; thus 
the arrival of a white man in these countries would be regarded 
without suspicion. 

In my present expedition I had always endeavoured to pre- 
seiwe peace, but, as this work will show, I was in every instance 
forced to war in absolute self-defence. I was therefore deter- 
mined not to attack Rionga, unless lie should presume to defy 
the government. 

In reply to Kabba Rega and his chiefs, who all had joined in 
the argument, I declared that I would find means to establish 
peace, and that Rionga would assuredly come to terms. ISI'othing 
would induce me to use force against him or any other person, 
unless absolute^ necessary. I suggested to Kabba Rega that he 
should for a moment change positions with Rionga. AYhat would 
his feelings be should I Avantonly attack him, simply because I 
had been requested to do so by his enemy 1 

jS"o argument Avas of any avail. Kabba Rega replied, " You 
were my father's friend and brother : your wife was the same. 
You drove back the slave-hunters under "\Yat-el-Mek by hoisting 
your ^ag. Since you left us, the slave-hunters have returned 
and ruined the country. My father is dead ; but Rionga is still 
alive. Xow you are my father, and j^our wife is my mother: 
will you allow your son's enemy to live ? " 

It was quite useless to attempt reason with this hardened 
young fellow, who had not an idea of mercy in his disposition. 
As he had murdered his own relatives by the foulest treachery, 
so he would of course destroy any person who stood in his way. 
I therefore changed the conversation to Abou Saood. 



CHAP. XVIII.] 



ABOU SAOOD'S REPORT. 



313 



Kabba Eega and his slieiks all agreed that he had arrived here 
some time ago in a very miserable plight, exceedingly dirty, and 
riding upon a donkey. He was without baggage of any kind, 
and he introduced himself by giving a present to Kabba Rega of 
an old, battered metal basin and jug, iu Avhich he washed, 
together Avith a very old and worn-out small carpet, upon which 
he was accustomed to sit. With these magnificent presents he 
declared that he was " the son of a sultan, who had come to visit 
the king of Unyoro." 

Kabba Rega had replied that ''he did not believe it, as he had 
heard that he was simply a trader." 

Reports had readied Unyoro that I had arrived at Gondokoro, 
and that I was on my way to visit Kamrasi, and to explore the 
Albert N'yanza; therefore Kabba Rega had questioned Abou 
Saood concerning me. 

" Oh," Abou Saood replied, " that man whom we call ' the 
traveller ' 1 Oh yes, he was a very good fellow indeed ; but he 
is dead. He died long ago. The Pacha is a very different person ; 
and I hope he will never be able to reach this country. If he 
does, it will be a bad time for v/o?^." 

" Indeed ! " replied Kabba Rega. " I heard that the Pacha 
and the traveller, the friend of my father, were the same person." 

You have been deceived," said Abou Saood. " The Pacha 
is not like the traveller, or any other man. He is a monster with 
three separate heads, in each of which are six eyes — three upon 
each side. Thus with eighteen eyes he can see everything and 
every country at once. He has three enormous mouths, which 
are furnished with teeth like those of a crocodile, and he devours 
human flesh. He has already killed and eaten the Bari people 
and destroyed their country. Should he arrive here, he will pull 
you from the throne and seize your kingdom. You must light 
him, and by no means allow him to cross the river at Foweera. 
My soldiers will fight him on the road from Gondokoro, as will 
all the natives of the country: but I don't think he will be able 
to leave Gondokoro, as he has a large amount of baggage, and I 
have told the Baris not to transport it : — thus he will have no 
carriers." 

This was the actual report that Abou Saood had given to Kabba 
Rega, as the dragoman IJmbogo had been the interpreter, in the 
presence of Mohammed, my old Cairo dragoman. 

I laughed outright at this absurdity : at the same time it corro- 
borated all that I had already heard of Abou Saood's treachery. 
I immediately asked Kabba Rega if he was satisfied now that he 



314 



ISMAILIA. 



fCHAP. XVIII. 



had seen me 1 He replied, Abou Saood is a liar, and you are 
Kamrasi's friend, and my father : therefore you will, I am sure, 
assist me, and relieve me from my great enemy, Eionga. I shall 
then know that you are indeed my true friend." 

Once more it was necessary to change the conversation. A 
number of buffoons that were kept about the court for the amuse- 
ment of the young king now came forward. The cro^v'd was 
driven back, and an open space having been thus cleared, they 
performed a curious theatrical scene, followed by a general figlifc 
with clubs, until one man, having knocked down all the party, 
remained the victor. The scene terminated with an act of dis- 
gusting indecency, v\diich created roars of laughter from the im- 
mense crowd^ w^ho evidently considered this was the great joke 
of the piece. 

" Kabba Rega now took leave, and . retired as he. had before 
arrived, with drums, whistles, horns, flageolets, making a horrid 
din . . . ." 

The spot that I had selected for a station was at the southern 
edge of the toAvn, from which site the land sloped into a valley 
about a hundred feet below. I had at once commenced clearing 
away the high grass, and, as usual when first settling, I had 
broken up a few small plots, and had already soYvn seeds of 
English cucumbers, sweet melons, &c. 

The soil was wonderfully rich, at the same time it was very- 
easily worked. When the tall rank grass was torn out by the 
roots, a fine surface was exposed that resembled dark chocolate. 
This was a vegetable loam, Vvdtli a minimum of two feet 
thickness, resting upon a bright red quartz gravel. 

The quartz was not rounded, and appeared to be only the 
residue of decayed rock that had never been subjected to the 
action of running water. AVhen washed, a handful remained of 
sharp and clear white fragments. 

With such a subsoil the country must be healthy, as the 
heaviest shov^-er drained rapidly through the gravel. 

I employed the prisoners in clearing the grass, while the 
soldiers commenced cultivation, and dug up the ground with a 
number of hoes that I borrowed from Kabba Rega. 

These implements are nearly the same in shape as those iu 
Gondokoro and throughout the Madi country, but smaller, and 
the iron is very brittle and inferior. They are not used like the 
Dutch hoe, with a long handle, but are fixed upon a })iece of 
wood with a bend of natural growth, so the hoe can be used with 
a downward stroke like a pick-axe. 



CHAP. XVIII.] FPvIGHTFtTL ATROCITIES OF SLAVERS. 



315 



On 29tli Ajoril I commenced building a government Louse 
and public divan. 

Tlie king of Uganda (M'tese) Las envoys tlirougliout tlie 
countries wLicli surround Lis dominions. . One of tLese cLiefs, 
wLo represented M'tese at Masindi, paid me a visit, and gave 
me a good deal of information. 

He described tlie M'wootan ^^'zige (Albert N'y^'^iiza) as form- 
ing tlie western frontier of Karagwe, from wLicli point it turned 
westward for a distance unknown. TLis was a similar descrip- 
tion to tliat given by Ivamrasi some years ago. 

I gave tlie envoy a red and yellow LandkercLief to tie around 
Lis Lead. Tlie man was neatly dressed in Indian clotLes tliat 
Lad arrived from Bombay via Zanzibar. 

On 30tL April, Kabba Eega sent a present of twelve ele- 
pLants' tusks, forty-one loads of tullaboon, twelve pots of sour 
plantain cider, and tliirty-four cows. At tlie same time, lie 
complained tLat some of Abou Saood's people were taking slaves 
in tlie iieiglibourLood of Foweera and Kisooiia. 

TLe principal cLiefs, togetLer witli Kabba Eega, assured me 
tliat Abou Saood's people Lad been in tlie Labit of torturing 
people to extract from tliem tlie secret of tlie spot in wliicL 
tLeir corn was concealed. Tlirougliout Uiiyoro tliere are no 
granaries exposed at tlie present time, as tlie country Las been 
ravaged by civil war; tlius all corn is buried in deep lioles 
specially arranged for tliat purjiose. WLen tlie slave-Lunters 
souglit for corn, tliey were in tLe Labit of catcLing tLe villagers 
and roasting tlieir posteriors by liolding them down on tlie 
moutli of a large eartlieii water-jar filled witli glowing embers. 
If tLis torture of roasting alive did not extract tlie secret, tliey 
generally cut the sufferer's tliroat to terrify Lis companions, who 
would tlien divulge tLe position of tLe Lidden stores to avoid a 
similar fate. Tins accusation was corroborated by MoLammed^ 
tLe Cairo dragoman. 

It is difficult to conceive tlic brutality of tLese brigands, avLo, 
tlius relieved from tlie fear of a gtjvernment, exLibit tLeir 
unbridled passions by every liorrible crime. 

Unibogo, tlio interpreter, was now regularly installed in a Lut 
witLin call of my tent. Tins man appeared to be exceedingly 
fond of us, and lie was tlie main source of information. 

He Lad a very lovely wife, a Bahooma, wLo was a light 
brown colour, witli beautiful Abyssinian eyes; sLe Lad ^ been 
given to liiiii by Kabba Eega, witli wliom lie was a great 
favourite. 



316 



iSMAILIA. 



[chap. XVIII. 



Umbogo ^vas very intelligent^ and lie took a great interest in 
all my plans for establishing free trade tlironghout the conntry : 
but he told nie privately that he thought the idea would be op- 
posed secretly by Kabba Rega, who would wish to monopolize 
all the ivory trade^ in order to keep up the price, and to obtain 
the whole of the merchandise. 

The great variety of goods much astonished him, and he 
advised me strongly to send for a large supply of soap, for which 
there would be a great demand, as a light complexion was 
greatly admired in Unyoro. He said that ]\Iohammed, the 
Cairo dragoman, was several shades lighter since I had supplied 
him with soap ; this was true, as he had been very filthy before 
ray arrival ; but Umbogo was persuaded that the difference 
between white and black people was caused by the fact of our 
ancestors having always used soap, while the iDlacks used only 
plain water. This ethnological fact having been established, I 
gave him a small piece, to his great delight, as he expressed his 
intention to become a white man. 

I was always chatting with Umbogo and the -various chiefs, 
especially with my favourite, Kittakara, who was Kabba Eega's 
most confidential counsellor. They gave me a graphic account 
of the royal funeral tliat had taken place a few months ago, 
when Kamrasi was interred. 

When a king of Unyoro dies, the body is exposed upon a 
framework of green wood, like a gigantic gridiron, over a slow 
fire. It is thus gradually dried, until it resembles an over- 
roasted hare. 

Thus mummified, it is wrapped in new bark-cloths, and lies 
in state within a large house built specially for its reception. 

The sons tight for the throne. The civil war may last for 
years, but during this period of anarchy, the late king's body 
lies still unburied. 

At length, when victory has decided in favour of one of his 
sons, the conqueror visits the hut in which his father's body lies 
in state. He approaches the corpse, and standing by its side, 
he sticks the bult-end of his spear in the ground, and leaves it 
thus fixed near the right hand of the dead king. This is 
symbolical of victory. 

The son now ascends the throne, and the funeral of his father 
must be his first duty. 

An immense pit or trench is dug, capable of containing several 
hundred people. 

This pit is neatly lined with new bark-cloths. 



CHAP. XVIII.] EXTRAORDINARY CUSTOMS. 



317 



Several wives of the Lite king are seated together at the 
bottom, to Lear upon their knees the body of their departed 
lord. 

The night previous to the funeral, the king's own regiment or 
body-guard surround many dwellings and villages, and seize the 
people indiscriminately as they issue from their 'doors in the 
early morning. These captives are brought to the pit's mouth. 

Their legs and arms are now broken with clubs, and they 
are pushed into the pit on the top of the king's body and his 
wives. 

An immense din of drums, horns, flageolets, whistles, mingled 
with the yells of a frantic crowd, drown the shrieks of the 
sufferers, upon whom the earth is shovelled and stamped down 
by thousands of cruel fanatics, who dance and jump upon the 
loose mould so as to form it into a compact mass ; through 
which the victims of this horrid sacrifice cannot grope their way, 
the precaution having been taken to break the bones of their 
arms and legs. At length the mangled mass is bmied and trod- 
den down beneath a tumulus of earth, and all is still. The 
funeral is over. 

Upon my return to Egypt I was one day relating this bar- 
barous custom to a friend, when Mr. Kay, of Alexandria, 
reminded me of the curious coincidence in the description of 
the travels of Ibn Batuta, Avritten a.d. 1346. 
¦ I am indebted to Mr. Ivay for the following extract from the 
work of Ibn Eatuta, which will go far to prove the extreme 
conservatism of Africans in all that regards their rites and 
customs. 

On his arrival at Khan Ealik (Pekin), Ibn Batuta found that 
the khan, or emperor, was absent. His cousin had risen against 
him, and had been joined by most of the ameers, Avho accused 
the khan of having broken the laws of the Yassak, and had 
called upon him to abdicate. 

The emperor marched against the rebels at the head of an 
army (which, Ibn Batuta says, consisted of a million cavalry 
and half a million infantry). A battle was fought, in which the 
khan was defeated and killed. 

" This news reached the capital a few days after our arrival. 
The city was decorated, drums and trumpets were sounded, and 
games and rejoicings instituted, which continued for the space 
of a month. 

" The dead body of the khan was then brought, together with 
the bodies of about a hundred men, hia relations and followers. 



31S 



IS.AIAILIA. 



[chap. XVIII. 



"A large vault was coustructed underground. It was spread 
with magnificent carpets, and the body of the khan was laid in 
it, along with his wea2)ons and with the gold and silver vessels 
that were used in his household. 

''Four female slaves and six memliiks were led into the 
vault, each provided with a drinking vessel filled with liquid. 

''The entrance of the vault was walled up, and earth was 
heaped on the top until it resembled a large hillock. 

" Four horses were then brought and made to gallop in the 
neighbourhood of the tomb until they stood still with fatigue. 
A large beam of wood was erected over the tomb, and to this 
the horses Avere attached, being impaled with wooden pales, 
passed longitudinally through their bodies and projecting through 
their mouths. 

" The bodies of the khan's relatives, . whom I have previously 
mentioned, Avere likewise deposited in vaults, each with his 
weapons and with the vessels used in his house. 

" Those of highest rank were ten in number. Over each of 
their tombs three horses were impaled, and one horse over each 
of the others. 

" The day was one of public solemnity, and no one abstained 
from its observance, neither man nor woman, IMoslem nor in- 
fidel. All arrayed themselves in funeral garments — the infidels 
wearing white tailasans, and the Moslem white gowns. 

" The empresses, wives of the khan, and his chief followers 
remained in the neighbourhood of the tomb for forty days, 
living in tents. Some prolonged their stay up to a year, and a 
market was established at which provisions and every other 
necessary were sold. 

" These are practices of the existence of which among any other 
people in these present times I have no personal knowledge. 

" The Indian infidels and the people of China burn their dead. 
Others bury them, but without burying liviug men or women 
along with the corpse. 

" Bnf I iff's informed in the Soudan, by persons iqion whose 
word ftiU relianc'' may he placed, that among certain infidels in 
these countries, on the death of the Idng, a vault is constructed in 
which the corpjse is laid, and cdong with it a certain number of 
his courtiers and servants ; as also thirty persons, sons and 
dang] iters of the most distinguished men of the country. The 
fore-arms of these persons are first hroJcen, as also their legs, 
below the hnees, and drinldng vessels are deposited ioith them in 
the tomb. 



CHAP. XVIII.] ANCIENT CUSTOMS IN THE SOUDAN. 



319 



" I was informed by a person, one of the chief men of the 
Masuffahs, who dwelt in the country of Koobar, in the Soudan, 
and who was a favourile with the sultan, that on the death of 
the latter the ^Deople wished to bury my informant's son in the 
tomb along with those of their own children who had been chosen 
for the same purpose. He added : ' I remonstrated, saying, 
" How can ye do this 1 The lad is not of your faith, neither is 
he one of your children." Finally, I ransomed him,' he con- 
tinued, * with a heavy payment.'" .... 

This is an interesting fact, that so long ago as the year 1346 
such a practice was known to exist in Central Africa. 

When the funeral rites of Kamrasi were over, Kabba Rega 
ascended the throne, and succeeded to all his father's wives, with 
the exception of his own mother. This is the invariable custom 
in ITnyoro. 

The throne is composed partly of copper and of wood. It is 
an exceedingly small and ancient piece of furniture, and has 
been handed down for many generations and is considered to be 
a cojoor, or talisman. There is also an ancient drum, which is 
regarded with reverence as something uncanny, and the two 
articles are always jealously guarded by special soldiers, and are 
seldom used. 

Should the throne be lost or stolen, the authority of the king 
would disappear, together with the talisman, and disorder would 
reign throughout the country until the precious object should bo 
restored. 



CHAPTEE XIX. 

EESTORATION OF THE LIBERATED SLAVES. 

The work had now fairly commenced, and Kabba Rega and 
his chiefs were assured of a grand reform. Already the slave- 
hunters had been punished : the vakeel, Suleiman, was secured 
in the stocks, and the slaves that had been kidnapped had been 
restored to their homes in Unyoro. I now determined to insist 
upon the restoration of all the Unyoro slaves that had been 
carried away from this country, and were captives in the zareebas 



320 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



of Fatiko, Fabbo, Faloro, and Farragenia. From the descriptions 
of Kabba Rega and his chiefs, I considered that these prisoners 
amounted to about a thousand persons — women and children. 

Umbogo, the interpreter, declared that Abou Saood's com- 
panies would attack the government troops, should I insist upon 
the liberation of the slaves. He had lived with these slave- 
hunters, and he had frequently heard them declare, that, " should 
the Pacha ever arrive in this country, and insist upon the 
suppression of slavery, they would shoot him rather than lose 
their slaves,'' I treated this idea as an absurdity. 

At the same time that Kabba Eega and ]iis people were eager 
for the restoration of the numerous women and children that 
had been stolen from Unyoro, they were themselves great 
slave-dealers. 

M'tese, the powerful King of Uganda, on the southern frontier 
of Unyoro, was in the habit of purchasing ivory in that country 
for the merchants of Zanzibar. 

These purchases were made by an exchange of slaves, brass-coil 
bracelets, and long cotton shirts ; which were either of British or 
Indian manufacture, that liad arrived via Zanzibar. 

JM'tese, with his usual sagacity, did not permit the merchants 
of that country to enter Uganda in force, but he received from 
them botli slaves and merchandise, v.'hich he sent into the sur- 
rounding countries for the purchase of ivory. He thus monopo- 
lized the trade, and kept the price at a minimum. 

In Unyoro there was an established value for a healthy young 
girl. Such a person was equal to a single elephant's tusk of 
the first class, or to a new shirt. Thus a girl could be purchased 
for a shirt, and she might be subsequently exchanged for a large 
elephant's tusk. 

In the country of Uganda, where the natives are exceedingly 
clever as tailors and furriers, needles are in great demand. A 
handsome girl may be purchased for thirteen English needles ! 
Thus for slave-traders there existed an excellent opening for a 
profitable business. A girl might be bought for thirteen needles 
in Uganda, to be exchanged in Unyoro for an elephant's tusk 
that would be worth twenty or thirty pounds in England. 

Abou Saood's brigands had been far too lawless even for this 
innocent tratitic, and in default of tlie merchandise necessary for 
such prohtable exchanges, they had found it more convenient to 
kidnap young girls, which saved nmcli trouble in bargaining for 
needles and shirts. 

In every African tribe that I have visited, I found slavery a 



OHAP. XIX.] CHIEF PROPOSES TO BELL HIS SOK 



321 



natural institution of the country. I had at length discovered 
that it was bad policy to commence a dissertation against the 
slave trade generally ; this attacked local interests, therefore it 
was more diplomatic to speak against the capture of women and 
children that helonged to my hearers, but to avoid a discussion 
upon the moral aspect of the slave trade. 

The negro idea of the eighth commandment is : " Thou shalt 
not steal — from me ; " but he takes a liberal view of the subject 
when the property belongs to another. 

I had been rather startled in the year of my arrival at Gondo- 
koro, Avhen, during the voyage, I landed and conversed with 
some sheiks of the Sliir tribe. One of these headmen was loud 
in his complaints against the slave-hunters and against the slave 
trade in particular, from which his tribe had suffered. Many of 
the women and children had been carried off by a neighbouring 
tribe, called the Eerri, on the east of the I^ile. The sheik there- 
fore proposed that I should join him with my troops and capture 
all the women and children that belonged to his enemies. This 
was natural enough, and was a simple example of the revenge 
that is common to uneducated human nature. The sheik and I 
got on famously, and I found a good listener, to whom I preached 
a touching sermon upon the horrors of the slave trade, which I 
was resolved to suppress. 

The good man was evidently moved at the allusion to the 
forcible separation of children from their parents. 
Have you a soni" he asked. 

"My sons are, unfortunately, dead," I replied. 

" Indeed ! " he exclaimed. "I have a son — an only son. He 
is a nice boy — a very good boy ; about so high (showing his 
length upon the handle of his spear). I should like you to see 
niy boy — he is very thin now ; but if he should remain with 
you he would soon get fat. He's a really nice boy, and always 
hungry. You'll be so fond of him ; he'll eat from morning till 
night ; and still he'll be hungry. You'll like him amazingly ; 
he'll give you no trouble if you only give him plenty to eat. 
He'll lie down and go to sleep, and he'll wake up hungry again. 
He's a good boy, indeed ; and he's my only son. I'll sell him to 
you for a molote I (native iron spade)." 

The result of my sermon on the slave trade, addressed to this 
affectionate father, was quite appalling. I was offered his only 
son in exchange for a spade ! and this young nigger knave of 
spades was warranted to remain always hungry. 

I simply give this anecdote as it occurred without asserting 

Y 



322 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



that SLicli conduct is the rule. At the same time, there can be 
no doubt that among the White ^ile tribes any number of 
male children might be purchased from their parents — especially 
in seasons of scarcity. 

Girls are always purchased, if required, as wives. It would 
be quite impossible to obtain a wife for love from any tribe tha^ 
I have visited. " Blessed is he that hath his quiver full of them " 
(daughters). A large family of girls is a source of wealth to the 
father, as he sells each daughter for twelve or fifteen cows to 
her suitor. Every girl is certain to marry ; thus a dozen daugh- 
ters will bring a fortune of at least 150 cows to their parents in 
all j^astoral countries. 

In Unyoro, cattle are scarce, and they belong to the king ; 
therefore the girls are purchased for various commodities — such 
as brass-coil bracelets, bark-cloths, cotton shirts, ivory, &c. 

I was anxious to establish a new and legitimate system of 
trade in this country, which would be the first step towards a 
higher civilization. I accordingly devoted every energy to the 
completion of the station, in which we were assisted by the 
natives, under the direction of their various headmen. 

The order and organization of Unyoro Avere a great contrast to 
the want of cohesion of the northern tribes. Every district 
throughout the country was governed by a chief, who was re- 
sponsible to the king for the state of his province. This system 
was extended to sub-governors and a series of lower officials in 
every district, who were boimd to obey the orders of the lord- 
lieutenant. Thus every province had a responsible head, that 
could be at once cut olf should disloyalty or other signs of bad 
government appear in a certain district. 

In the event of war, every governor could appear, together 
with his contingent of armed men, at a short notice. 

These were the rules of government that had been es*:ablished 
for many generations throughout Unyoro. 

The civil war had ceased, and Kabba Eega having ascended 
the throne, the country had again fallen into the order that a 
23revious good organization rendered easy. 

The various headmen of the district now appeared daily, with 
their men laden with thatch grass and canes for the construction 
of the station. 

I commenced a government house, and a private dA\'elling 
adjoinmg for myself. 

On my first arrival at IMasindi I had begged Kabba Eega to 
instruct his people to clear away about fifty acres of grass around 



CHAP. XIX.] 



PROPOSAL OP FARMING. 



323 



our station, and to break up the ground for cultivation, as I 
Avished my troo^DS to sow and reap their own corn, instead of 
living at the expense of the natives. 

The system, both in Uganda and XJnyoro, is bad and unjust. 

Should visitors arrive, they are not allowed to purchase food 
from the people, but they must be fed by the king's order at the 
cost of the inhabitants. This generally results in their not being 
fed at all, as the natives quit the neighbourhood. 

I had suffered much from hunger in Unyoro, during my former 
visit, in the reign of Kamrasi ; therefore I wished to protect 
myself against famine by a timely cultivation of the surrounding 
fertile land, which was now covered with rank grass about nine 
feet high. 

In a military point of view it was impolitic to sit down within 
a station incircled by a dense grass covert, and although I had 
not the most remote suspicion of hostility in this countr}'-, I 
preferred a situation v/hence we could enjoy an extensive 
landscape. 

The Albert N'yanza lay distant a])out twenty miles on the 
west, in the deep basin which characterizes this extraordinary 
sheet of water. Immense volumes of cloud rose in the early 
morning from the valley which marked the course of the lake, 
as the evaporation from the great surface of water condensed into 
mist, when it rose to the cooler atmosphere of the plateau 1,500 
feet above the level. 

The proposal of farming did not appear to please Ivabba Eega. 
It was explained that the men were not accustomed to labour in 
the fields, as agricultural work was performed by the women, all 
of whom were now absent and engaged in preparing their own 
land. 

Although Masindi was a large town, I was struck by the 
absence of females. The only women that I saw were two, one 
of whom was the pretty wife of Umbogo the dragoman. It has 
already been explained, that the absence of women generally 
denotes hostility, but as the rainy season necessitated hard 
work, I accepted the explanation. 

The corn for the supply of Masindi was brought from a dis- 
tance of two days' journey, and numbers of people were daily 
employed in going to and fro for the general provisions of the 
station. 

The slave -hunters belonging to Suleiman, who were now 
prisoners under a guard, numbered twenty-five men : I employed 
these people daily to clear away the high grass, which was piled 

Y 2 



324 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



and "burnt, the ashes were then spread, and the ground was hoed 
up and thoroughly prepared by the troops. 

It was in vain that I urged upon Kabba Eega and his cliiefs 
the necessity of cultivation for the supply of corn requisite for 
the troops. Every day they promised to clear away the grass, 
provided the soldiers would then dig and prepare the ground. 
This I agreed to do, but the natives showed no intention of 
working. 

I began to suspect that Kabba Eega had an objection to a 
large open clearing. The tactics of all natives are concealment ; 
if a man is frightened, he hides in the grass ; in case of hos- 
tilities, the high grass is a fortress to the negro. It became 
evident that we were to remain surrounded by this dense 
herbage, which not only obstructed the view, but rendered the 
station damp and dreary. 

I explained to the chiefs the folly of Kabba Eega in thus 
neglecting such magnificent soil, which, with a little labour, 
would produce all that we could require, and would save both 
him and his people the trouble of feeding us. At the same 
time I set all hands of my own people to clear a large space and 
to make gardens. 

Unyoro had alwa^^s been a country of cowardice and suspicion, 
and I could plainly see that Ave were narrowly watched. Kabba 
Eega usually sat in his public divan from about two p.m. till 4 
daily, to transact public business. This large circular building 
was extremely neat, and the ground was carefully strewed with 
the long fringes of the papyrus rush, after the fashion of our 
ancestors in England, who, before the introduction of carpets, 
strewed the floor with rushes. 

The young king informed me that, as he wished to be in con- 
stant communication with me personally, he should build a new 
divan Avithin a fcAV yards of my residence, so that we could con- 
verse upon all occasions Avithout being Avatchcd by his people. 

This was merely an excuse for erecting a building Avithin fifty 
yards of my house, from Avhich his guards could watch all that 
happened, arid report everything to their master. 

The new building Avas constructed Avith Avonderful quickness, 
and jDrettily walled Avith canes inside to resemble basket-Avork. 

Kabba Eega came to liis ncAV divan, attended by a number of 
his guards, or bonosoora, armed Avitli guns. To give him con- 
fidence, I Avent to see him unattended, except by Lieutenant 
Eaker and my ever-faithful attendant, Monsoor, Avho did not at 
all approve of my going unarmed. 



CHAP. XIX.] 



THE ROYAL BEGGAR. 



325 



The conversation quickly turned upon guns. Kabba Rcga 
was delighted with the mechanism of Monsoor's snider rifle, 
which he at once understood and explained to his body-guard. 
He appeared to have quite lost his shyness, and he begged me 
to consider him simply in the light of my own son, and to give 
him all the merchandise at once that I had brought with me to 
establiali a new trade. 

I told him that fathers did not give their sons all their 
property at once ; but that if I saw that he performed his duty 
to the Khedive, he need not fear. I had both the power and 
the good-will to reward him. 

He continued the conversation precisely according to his late 
father Kamrasi's style : "I have no one but yourself to regard. 
Does not a father consider the interests of his son ? You were 
my father's friend ; and I have always looked for your return. 
I knew that Abou Saood was a liar when he spoke against you ; 
I knew that he was an impostor when he announced himself as 
the son of a sultan. AVould the son of a sultan only give me a 
present of an old carpet and a dirty washing-basin 1 I always 
said, ' Wait till the Pacha comes — Mallegg(^,i my father's friend. 
He is truly a great man, who does not travel empty-handed ; 
and he will bring me presents worth my acceptance — things 
that the impostor, Abou Saood, does not understand the use 
of.' By the by, there was a magic instrument with which you 
could find your way without a guide in strange countries, that 
jovi promised to send to my father; you have, of course, brought 
it for mer' 

This demand amused me much, as I well remembered how 
Kamrasi had bothered me for my compass. I pretended that 
lie meant a watch, which I had already given him. 

At length I Avas obliged to promise that if he would clear 
away the grass and cultivate the neighbouring ground, I would 
give him a compass. 

I now explained the advantages of free trade, and I begged 
him to order his men to complete the government house without 
delay, as I could not unpack my numerous boxes until I had 
some place where I could exhibit the contents. I described the 
difficulties of the route from Khartoum, and the expense of 
transport from Gondokoro, owing to the unwillingness of the 
Baris to carry loads, and I explained my intention of erecting 
steamers on the Nile which would bring all kinds of merchandise 

^ Mallegge, or the Man with the Beard, was my nickname in Unyoro 
during my former journey. 



326 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, XIX. 



to Unyoro via the Albert N'yanza in exchange for ivory, thus 
the Zanzibar trade would turn towards the north, and the 
elephants' tusks that were now purchased by M'tese, would 
remain in Unyoro, until delivered to the Khedive's government 
in barter for manufactured goods. 

The name of M'tese seemed to make him uncomfortable. He 
replied : " You are mj father, and you will stand by your son 
against his enemies. This M'tese troubles me. In my father 
Ivamrasi's lifetime he frequently attacked as, and carried off our 
herds together with our women and children. He is too strong 
to resist single-handed, but now that you are here I shall have 
no fear. Don't let us talk about merchandise, that will come in 
due time ; never mind trade ; let us talk about guns and gun- 
powder. You must give me muskets and ammunition in large 
quantities; I will then arm all my bonosoora (soldiers) and 
with your assistance I will fight M'tese. I will then fill your 
large new house with ivory for the Khedive." 

"There is no time to lose; jom promised to fight Rionga; my 
troops are all ready, your men have nothing to do. Keep a fev/ 
here, and send the main force witli ray army to attack him at 
once, before he has time to escape to the Langgos." 

I could almost have imagined that I had been speaking 
with Kamrasi, so thoroughly did his son resemble him in his 
diplomacy. 

I answered him with caution, declaring that I cdtild not allov;- 
any reckless acts tliat would plunge the country in confusion. 
He (Kabba Eega) had nothing to fear ; but time Avas required 
to ripen my plans. I had promised that I would dismiss Sulei- 
man and his people from Unyoro : at the same time I should 
liberate all the slaves that had been stolen by Abou Saood's 
companies, and restore them to their homes. This was my first 
duty, that would assure the natives of my sincerity, and estab- 
lish general confidence in the government. 

Fatiko was 160 miles distant. I should therefore send Sulei- 
man and his people under an escort direct to Major Abdullah, 
the commandant, with orders to recover from Abou Saood all 
the slaves that had been captured from Unyoro. 

Major Abdullah would then break up his camp at Fatiko, and 
march in charge of the slaves, with his detachment of 100 men, 
together all effects, and join me at Unyoro. He would, 
upon arrival at the Victoria Xile, occupy the now deserted 
station of Suleiman at Eoweera; thus lie would be within a 
inarch of Eionga. 



OHAP. xrx.i KABBA REGA TRIES EXPERIMENTS. 



327 



The old enemy of the family (Rionga) would then have an 
opportunity, either of declaring his allegiance and remaining at 
peace, or, should he become turbulent, a government force 
would be at hand to control him. 

I therefore arranged that Kabba Rega should supply me with 
300 carriers, who would accompany my escort to Fatiko and 
transport all stores, ammunition, &c., &c., so as to concentrate 
my force in Unyoro. 

This plan seemed to delight Kabba Rega ; he declared that 
the first step necessary was the banishment of Suleiman and his 
people from the country. The next move would be the attack 
upon Rionga. I explained to him that it vv^onld be quite useless 
for any enemy to retreat for security to the river islands, as the 
rockets would search them out in the middle of the dense canes, 
and they would be only too glad to escape ; but at the same 
time, T should hope that Rionga would come to terms and avoid 
the necessity of a resort to force. 

That evening, after we had dined, and I was smoking my 
customary chibouque, Kabba Rega astonished me by an im- 
promptu visit ; he was as usual attended by some of his fol- 
lowers armed with muskets. He sat clown at the table, and 
having felt the table-cloth, he wished to know " why the table 
was covered;" he then examined the tumblers, and everything 
that was present, all of which he seemed to admire. I offered 
him some gin and water. This he smelt but v/ould not taste, as 
he suspected poison ; accordingly he poured it into wine glasses, 
and divided it among three of his people, who v^ere obliged to 
drink it, while their master watched them attentively, in ex- 
pectation of some ill effects. His people rather approved of 
the poison, and asked for more. Kabba Rega seemed to think 
that a larger dose was necessary ; but as we could not afford to 
waste Geneva by experiments upon numerous attendants, all 
of Avhom were to be poisoned with our good liquor for the 
amusement of the king, I sent the bottle away and turned the 
subject. 

Kabba Rega now minutely examined the lamps and glass 
shades. The principle was explained to him, and the candle was 
withdrawn from the tube and spring, and again replaced. He 
expressed a wish to have one,, saying that he intended to have 
everything precisely as I had. 

I assured him that this was my object; I wished to create 
new wants among his people and himself, which would tend to 
develope commerce. He might have everything in European 



328 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XIX. 



style, and live in a civilized manner, now that the route was open 
from the north. Ivory was abundant in this coimtry, and this 
would provide him with the means of purchasing all that he 
could desire. 

I had ordered Monsoor to arrange a stake in the ground, with 
a large nail driven in the top at right angles to form a rocket- 
stand. I now asked Kabba Rega if he would like to see a rocket 
fired. 

The idea delighted him, and a few rockets having been brought, 
together with port-fii'es and blue lights, we exhibited the fire- 
works. There was no wind, thus the rockets did no damage, as 
they were inclined towards the north, in which direction there 
were no buildings. 

Kabba Rega himself ignited a rocket w^th a port-fire, and 
although rather nervous at the great rush of fire, he seemed inter- 
ested at the fact that a town composed of straw huts could be 
destroyed from a distance .... 

On the following morning, Umbogo, the dragoman, told me that 
the natives had been very much frightened at the rockets, as they 
said, " the Pacha was going to set the sky on fire." 

The station was progressing rapidly. The soil was of such 
extraordinar}^ richness that the seeds sprang up like magic. On 
the third day after sowing, the cucumbers, melons, pumpkins, and 
cotton seeds, showed themselves above ground. 

I had made a broad walk of red gravel from Kabba Rega's new 
divan, to the government house. The roads and approaches were 
finished, and all neatly laid with fresh gravel stamped firmly 
down. The borders of all paths and roads were sown with the 
best quality of Egyptian cotton, known in Egypt as galleeno. 
My large tent was pitched beneath an immense banian-tree, close 
to which was the new government house. This grand-sounding 
name was given to a very solid construction of a most simple 
character. The divan was a building containing only one room 
twenty-eight feet long by fourteen wide, and about twenty feet 
high. It was carefully thatched with overhanging eaves, which 
formed a narrow verandah, and it was entered by a commodious 
porch ; this was arched in the native fashion, and was so large 
that it formed a lobby, in which we sometimes dined. The inside 
walls of the divan were neatly made with canes closely lashed 
together. 

There was a back door to this public room which communi- 
cated with a separate house by a covered way. 

This was our private residence, which also consisted of only one 



CHAP. XIX.] 



THE PRIVATE RESIDENCE. 



room ; but I had arranged it with extreme neatness, in order to 
excite the admiration of Kabba Kega and his chiefs, who would, 
I hoped, imitate the manners and customs of civilized life, and 
thus improve trade. 

The room was twenty-four feet long by thirteen wide. The 
walls were as usual made of canes, but these were carefully hung 
with scarlet blankets, sewn together and stretched to the ground, 
so as to form an even surface. The floor was covered with mats. 
Upon the walls opposite to each other, so as to throw endless 
reflection, were two large oval mirrors (girandoles) in gilt metal 
frames. A photograph of her Majesty the Queen stood on tho 
toilet table. 

At the extreme end of the room was a very good coloured 
print, nearly life size, of her Royal Highness the Princess of 
Wales. The scarlet walls were hung with large coloured prints, 
life-size, of very beautiful Avomen, with very gorgeous dresses, all 
the jewelry being imitated by pieces of coloured tinsel. A num- 
ber of sporting prints, very large, and also coloured, were arranged 
in convenient places on the walls. There were fox-hunting scenes, 
and German stag-hunts, together with a few quiet landscapes, 
that always recalled the dear old country now so far away. 

The furniture was simple enough : two angarebs, or Arab 
stretchers, which, during the day, were covered with Persian 
carpets and served as sofas, while at night they were arranged as , 
beds. The tables were made of square metal boxes piled one 
upon the other and covered with bright blue cloths. These were 
arranged with all kinds of odd trinkets of gaudy appearance, but 
of little value, which were intended to be asked for, and given 
away. Two native stools curiously cut out of a solid block formed 
our chairs. The guns and rifles stood in a row against a rack 
covered with red Turkey cloth ; and a large Geneva musical box 
lay upon a table beneath the Princess of Wales. 

Altogether the room was exceedingly pretty. It would have 
been vulgar if in England ; but it was beautifully clean, and it 
shortly became the wonder of Central Africa. 

I had brought the large gilt mirrors from England specially for 
M'tese, the king of Uganda, and for Kamrasi. I knew that if 
they were arranged in my own house, the news would be carried 
to M'tese immediately; and the fact of so great a curiosity 
and treasure being on the road to him would at once open a 
communication. 

On 8th May, the prisoners of Suleiman's company, numbering 
twenty-five persons, came to the divan, headed by Ali Genninar, 



330 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. xis. 



and supplicated forgiveness. They all declared their desire to be 
registered on the government hooks as irregular troops. 

I had abeady witnessed an example of their duplicity, there- 
fore I had no confidence in their ]3rofessions, hut at the same 
time I did not know what to do Avith them. The fact of their 
being in custody required twenty soldiers to relieve the necessary 
guards. I therefore determined to be magnanimous, as I was 
only too happy to be rid of such bad bargains should they run 
away. The only man that I trusted was Ali Genninar; he was 
a clever and jDlucky fellow that I had known in my former 
African journey, at which time he belonged to the company of 
Ibrahim. 

After a good lecture I forgave them, and they all received their 
serkis (certificates) as members of the irregular corps. Ali 
Gennmar was to have the rank of lieutenant. 

I told them that it was my intention to hoist the Ottoman flag, 
and to officially annex the country in the presence of Kabba Rcga 
and his people, therefore I did not wish any subjects of the Khe- 
dive to be in disgrace upon such an occasion, excepting only 
Suleiman, who would be sent to Cairo on the first opportunity, 
to answer for the murder of the prisoner at Foweera. I therefore 
divided a few pounds of beads among them for the purchase of 
new bark-cloths, as I could not allow them to appear in their 
dirty clothes on the day of the ceremony. 

i They all went away rejoicmg, and swearing fidelity, at the 
same time confessing their sins, and voAving that I had treated 
them better than they had deserved. 

As usual, our proceedings were narrowly watched by the guards 
stationed at Kabba Eega's new divan, witliin fifty j^ards of my 
house. These spies immediately ran off to their master with the 
report that I had forgiven the slave-hunters who were lately 
prisoners, and that I had actually made them jDresents of 
beads. ^ 

This report was quickly confirmed, as the new and dirty mem- 
bers of the irregular corps, who were now at liberty, presented 
themselves in the town with their hands full of beads to purchase 
the necessary bark-cloths. These cloths are prepared from the 
bark of a species of fig-tree in a very simple manner, which I have 
personally witnessed. 

^ At that time I had not the slightest idea that the liberation of the pris- 
oners Avould excite suspicion in the minds of Kabba lloga and his people, 
but there can be no doubt that this act of clemency on my part destroyed 
the confidence which had previously existed. 



CHAr. XIX.] PREPARATION OB^ BARK-CLOTH. 



331 



A piece of bark about six feet long^ and as wide as possible, is 
detached from tlie trunk of tlie tree. The outside rind is pared 
off by a lance-head used with two hands, like a cooper's drawing- 
knife. The bark is then laid upon a beam of wood on the 
ground, on which it is hammered with a mallet grooved in fine 
cuts, so that the repeated blows stamp the bark with lines some- 
what resembling corduroy. This hammering expands the bark, 
which is repeatedly turned and hammered again, until at length 
it is beaten into a cloth of rather fine texture. The action of the 
air colours the material, which, although white vv^hen first stripped 
from the tree, quickly assumes a delicate shade of brown, as a 
slice of an apple oxydizes upon exposure in our own climate. 

The finest cloths are ornamented with patterns in black. These 
are simply produced by drawing the design with water from iron 
springs, which combining Avith the tannin of the bark immediately 
stains it. 

The sheets of bark-cloth are frequently dyed this colour by 
immersing them for a short time in springs of the same Avater. 

The finest cloths are produced in Uganda, and all that are used 
for royal wear are brought from that countryin exchange for ivory. 

My new men, the late slave-hunters, who I hoped were " wicked 
men that had turned away from their wickedness," had succeeded 
in purchasing a quantity of new cloths ready for the day of 
annexation. 

That night, at about nine o'clock, just before we were going to 
bed, we had remarked an extraordinary stillness in the town of 
Masindi. There was not a whisper to be heard throughout the 
capital, where generally the night was passed in the uproar of 
drunken singing and blowing of horns. 

Suddenly this extraordinary silence was broken by the deep 
notes of a nogaraor drum. This soimded for a second or two, and 
ceased. Again all was still as death. 

A sudden burst of hellish noise, such as I have never heard 
before or since, now startled every soldier to his feet, and without 
orders, every man armed and fell into position ! 

Colonel Abd-el-Kader, with his sword belted on and a rifle in 
his hand, came to me for orders on the instant. The ever-ready 
Monsoor was armed and by my side. 

In the mean time the din of very many thousands continued, 
yelling and shrieking as though maniacs; I should imagine that 
at least a thousand drums were beating, innumerable horns were 
blowing, with Avhistles, fifes, and every mstrument that would 
add to the horrible uproar. 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XIX. 



At the same time not a human being was visible. 

Mohammed, the dragoman, appeared, together with TJmbogo. 
In reply to my question as to the cause of such a sudden irrup- 
tion of noise, Umbogo laughed, and said it was " to make me 
of raid, and to exhibit the great numbers of people that were 
collected at Masindi." 

This was all. I therefore at once ordered the band to play, as 
I determined to accept the carefully planned surprise as a com- 
pliment that I would return. 

The band struck up, the cymbals clashed, the big drum thun- 
dered, and the buglers blew their loudest, while the regimental 
drums rattled away as hard as the sticks could roll upon the skins. 

In a short time the noise of the town ceased, and the only 
sound was occasioned by our own band. 

I ordered them to cease playing. Once more there was perfect 
stillness. 

I ordered the sentries to keep a sharp loolc-out, and we all went 
to bed. 

This was a practical joke that did not please me, as it smacked 
of distrust and defiance. It took place on the same day upon 
which I had liberated the slave-hunter's people, and engaged them 
as irregular troops. 

On the following momiug I sent several messengers to Kabba 
Eega to beg him to pay me a visit. They all returned, some 
saying that he w\as asleep — others, that he was drunk. It was 
the usual habit of this young man to get very drunk every night, 
and to sleep until about 2 p.m., when he dressed and attended at 
his public divan. 

I now heard that native messengers had arrived from tlie 
country of Faieera, which formed one of the districts within nine 
miles of Fatiko, under the charge of the great sheik. Rot Jarma, 
who had sworn allegiance to the government, and was under the 
protection of Major Abdullah. 

These messengers had brought some guns and annnunition to 
sell to Kabba Eega. They wuslied particularly to see me, as 
they had important news. 

When they appeared in the divan, I at once recognized them 
as peojDle that I had seen at Fatiko. 

I'hey informed me that since my departure, Abou Saood and 
his people had ridiculed the authority of my commandant, INIajor 
Abdullah ; and to prove to the natives how powerless he was 
to protect them, Abou Saood had sent his men to attack Rot 
Jarma^ and they had carried off his cattle and slaves. 



CHAP. XIX.] REBELLIOUS CONDUCT OF ABOU SAOOD. 



333 



The messengers declared that both Rot Jarma and all the 
natives were delighted with Major Abdullah and his troojDS, as 
they were very different from the slave-hunters, but the latter 
were too numerous and strong for Abdullah to contend agamst. 

I told them that Abdullah was only waiting for orders ; but 
if such was the state of things " why had he not written a letter 
by this oj^portunity 1 " 

The natives asserted that the slave-hunters of Abou Saood 
had lost five of their party, killed in the attack upon Eot Jarma ; 
therefore they (the messengers) were afraid to go near the station 
of Major Abdullah. They had accordingly travelled fast to 
bring me the news (160 miles), at the same time they brought 
the guns for sale to Kabba Rega. 

It was the old story of deception and rebellion. Before my 
face Abou Saood would cringe to the earth, but he became an 
open rebel in my absence. It was absolutely necessary to place 
this man under arrest. When the Baris were at open war with 
the government, he had not only associated with their chief, but 
he had armed parties of these natives with muskets, which he 
employed in his zareebas. 

He now attacked, in defiance of government protection, those 
friendly natives of Faieera who had become peaceable subjects 
of the Khedive. This was the same spirit of defiance that had 
been exhibited by Suleiman when he slaughtered the prisoner 
to whom I had granted an asylum. 

Unless I should arrest Abou Saood, it would be ridiculous to 
attempt the establishment of a government. This scoundrel 
knew the weakness of my military force. He had himself 
requested Kabba Rega to attack me upon my arrival in his 
country. He was now plundering and kidnapping in the districts 
that were under government protection; this AYOuld immediately 
be known to Kabba Rega and his people, who would naturally 
conclude that my assurances of protection were valueless, and 
that Abou Saood was stronger than the government of the 
Khedive. 

1 determined to send orders to Major Abdullah to arrest Abou 
Saood if the reports were true concerning Faieera, at the same 
time he was to insist upon the liberation of all the Unyoro 
slaves, which he was to escort with his detachment to Foweera 
on the Victoria Nile. 

There was no doubt that this fellow, Abou Saood, was con- 
fident of support from some Egyptian authority beliind the scenes; 
he had therefore determined to be humble before my face, to 



334 



IS3IAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



avoid being pounced upon at once, but to have liis own way 
when niy back was turned, as lie trusted that after the advice lie 
had given to Kabba Rega I should never return from Unyoro. 
It would then be said that I had been killed by the natives, the 
affair would be ended, and the official supporters of Abou Saood 
would reinstate him in his original business for a sufficient 
consideration. 

I made arrangements for the departure of my new irregulars. 
After many invitations I at length succeeded in allaying Kabba 
Eega's apprehensions, and he promised to pay me a visit on the 
11 til May. Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader went to meet him, 
and escorted him to the new house. 

On arrival in the divan he was much astonished and delighted. 
The room, twenty-eight feet by fourteen, was arranged with 
double rows of metal boxes on all sides, so closely packed that 
they formed either low tables or seats, as might be required. 
These were all covered with blue blankets, which gave a neat 
appearance, upon Avhich, at the east end of the room, ^vere 
exhibited samples of the various goods that I had brought for 
the establishment of a regular trade in Unyoro. There were tin 
plates as bright as mirrors, crockery of various kinds, glasses, 
knives of many varieties, beautiful jSIanchester manufactures, 
such as Indian scarfs, handkerchiefs, piece-goods, light blue serge, 
chintzes, scarlet and blue blankets, blue and crimson cotton 
cloth, small mirrors, scissors, razors, watches, clocks, tin whistles, 
triangles, tambourines, toys, including small tin steamers, boats, 
carriages, Japanese spinning tops, horn snakes, pop-guns, spherical 
quicksilvered globes, together with assortments of beads of many 
varieties. 

" Are these all for me ? " asked Kabba Rega. 

" Certainly," I replied, " if you wish to exchange ivory. All 
these things belong to the Khedive of Egypt, and any amount 
remains in the magazines of Gondokoro. These are simjjly a 
few curiosities that I have brought as an experiment to prove 
the possibility of establishing a trade." 

Among other things, the wheel of life attracted his attention. 
This had frequently been exhibited, but neither Kabba Rega nor 
his chiefs ever tired of the performance. 

The magnetic battery was now called for, and Kabba Rega 
insisted upon each of his chiefs submitting to the operation, 
although he Avas afraid to experiment upon himself. He begged 
Lieutenant Baker, who managed the instrument, to give as 
powerful a shock as he could, and he went into roars of laughter 



CHAP. XIX.] THE QUEEN AND PRINCESS OF WALES. 



335 



wlien he saw a favourite minister rolling on liis back in contor- 
tions, without the possibility of letting the cylinders fall from 
his grasp. 

Every individual of his headmen had to suffer, and when all 
had been exhausted, the ministers sought outside the divan 
among the crowd for any particular friends that might Avisli to 
try " the magic." 

At length one of the wires of the instrument gave way, as a 
patient kicked and rolled frantically upon the ground ; this was 
a good excuse for closing the entertainment. 

Kabba Eega now requested permission to see our private 
residence. I told him that only himself together with four of 
his chiefs and the interpreter, Umbogo, could be permitted to 
enter. These v/ere Eahonka (his maternal uncle), iTeka (his 
uncle, Kamrasi's brother), Kitakara, and Quonga. On that 
occasion the tall chief, Matonse, endeavoured to push his way 
through, but was immediately turned back by the sentry and 
Monsoor.i 

The first exclamation upon entering the room was one of 
surprise — "Wall! Wah!" — and Kabba Rega and his chiefs 
covered their mouths with one hand, according to their custom 
when expressing astonishment. 

The large looking-glasses were miracles. Kabba Eega dis- 
covered a great number of Kabba Ecgas in the endless reflections 
of the two opposite mirrors. This was a great wonder that 
attracted particular attention. 

It was then discovered that every person was multiplied in a 
similar manner ! This was of course " cojoor " (magic). It Avas 
difficult to draw them away from the looking-glasses, but at 
length the pictures were examined. The Queen was exhibited 
and explained, and I described her subjects to be as numerous as 
the white ants in Unyoro. The Princess of ales was a three- 
quarter face ; and they imniediately asked " why she had only 
one ear 1 " The same question of unity was asked respecting the 
leg of a man in a red coat on a Avhite horse. 

Every lady's portrait was minutely examined, but to our great 
satisfaction, that of the Princess was declared by general consent 
to be the most lovely. 

I was much struck with this exhibition of good taste, as the 
other portraits were pretty faces, but the hair and dresses were 
gaudily ornamented, whereas that of the Princess of Wales was 

1 This little incident must be remembered, as the man took a dislike to 
Monsoor from that moment. 



S36 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



exceedingly simple ; the dress being an evening gown of white 
satin. 

I should have suspected that natives would have preferred 
the gaudy attire, without bestowing sufficient admiration on the 
features. 

Kabba Eega now asked " why the women in the various por- 
traits all looked at him ? " wherever he moved, their eyes followed 
him. 

His chiefs now discovered that the faces in the pictures were 
also looking at them ; and the eyes followed them whether they 
moved to the right or left ! This was cojoor, or magic, which 
at first made them feel uncomfortable. 

One of my wife's female servants, "Wat-el-Kerreem, would 
never remain by herself in this room, for fear of " the eyes that 
stared at her." 

Everything that we possessed was now minutely scrutinized. 
The guns and rifles of various breechloading mechanism were all 
displayed and admired. Kabba Eega thoughtfully asked " which 
of them I had intended for him ? " His uncle, Eahonka, exclaimed 
— " You have done wisely in bringing all those guns as presents 
for Kabba Eega." My visitors were quite charmed. The 
musical box played various delightful airs, and it was remarked 
that it would be more convenient than an instrument which 
required the study of learning, as " you might set this going at 
night to play you to sleep, when you were too drunk to play an 
instrument yourself ; even if you knew how to do it." 

This was my young friend Kabba Eega's idea of happiness — 
to go to sleep dnmk, assisted by the strains of self-playing 
melod}^ 

Of course, the large musical box was asked for ; and, of course, 
I promised to give it as a present from the Khedive of Egypt, if 
I found that Kabba Eega conducted himself properly. 

My wife's trinkets, &c., were now begged for; but it was 
explained that such things were private property belonging to 
the Sit (lady). The Sit ! the Sit ! the Sit ! " the young cub 
peevishly exclaimed; "everything that is worth having seems 
to belong to the Sit/" 

A small and beautifully-made revolver, with seven chambers, 
now attracted his attention. " Does this also belong to the SitT* 
inquired Kabba E^ga. " Yes, that is the Sit's own httle revolver," 
wsis the reply ; at which the yoimg kmg burst out laughing, 
saying, " Do women also carry arms in your country ] I see 
everything belongs to the Sit ! " 



OH VP. XIX. i OFFICIAL ANNEXATION OF UNYORO. 



337 



My wife now gave liini some of the finest Venetian beads, of 
which we only had a few dozen. These were much prized. He 
was then presented with a handsome gilt bracelet, set Avith four 
large French emeralds. This was a treasure such as he had 
never seen. He also received a few strings of fine imitation 
pearls. 

After much delay and vexatious demands for everything that 
he saw, we at length got rid of our visitor. 

I had explained to Kabba Eega the intended ceremony of 
hoisting the flag in the name of the Khedive, and that the 
country would be in future under the protection of Egypt, but 
that he should remain as the rejDresentative of the government. 
He seemed highly pleased at the idea of protection and presents, 
and expressed himself as very anxious to witness the ceremony, 

On the 14th May, 1872, I took formal possession of 

Unyoro in the name of the Khedive of Egypt. 

I recalled to the recollection of Kabba Eega and his chiefs the 
day when, many years ago, I had hoisted the British flag, and 
thus I had turned back the invading force of W at-el-Mek, and 
saved Unyoro. I now declared that the country and its inhabit- 
ants would be protected by the Ottoman flag in the same manner 
that it had been shielded by the Union Jack of England. 

There was a tall flag-staff fixed at the east end of the govern- 
ment house. 

The bugle sounded the " taboor," the troops fell in, the irre- 
gulars (late slave-hunters) formed in line with that charming 
irregularity which is generally met with in such rude levies. 

Kabba Ec^ga had received due notice, and he quickly appeared, 
attended by about a thousand people. 

The band played ; Kabba Eega's drums and horns sounded, 
and the troops formed a hollow square to listen to a short 
address. 

Kabba Eega was invited within the square ; and the men faced 
about with fixed bayonets, as though prepared to receive cavalry. 
It was now explained to the young king that this formation 
defended all sides from attack at the same time. He seemed 
more interested in getting out again, than in the explanation of 
military tactics. He evidently had suspicions that he was fairly 
entrapped when he found himself in the middle of the square. 

The flag was now hoisted with due formality; the usual 
military salutes took place ; volleys were fired ; and the crowd at 
length dispersed, leaving the Ottoman flag waving in a strong 
breeze at the head of the flag-staff. 

z 



338 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



As a proof of liis satisfaction, Kabba Eega immediately sent me 
a present of twelve goats. 

One of the soldiers bad been caught in the act of stealing 
potatoes from a native. This having been proved conclusively 
against him, I sent word to Kabba Eega to summon his people 
to witness the punishment of the offender. 

A great crowd of natives assembled, and the thief having 
received jDunishment in their presence, was confined in the stocks, 
and was condemned to be sent back to Gondokoro. This strict 
discipline had a strong moral effect upon my men ; as thefts, 
which had formerly been the rule, had now become the excep- 
tion. The natives were always assured of justice and protection. 

On 19th May, my people were ready to start, with the post 
and the prisoner Suleiman, to Fatiko. Kabba Eega declared 
that the 300 carriers were in readiness with fifty loads of flour 
for the journey ; and he said that he had already sent orders to 
Foweera to prepare the deserted zareeba of Suleiman for the 
reception of Major Abdullah and his detachment on their arrival. 

The party was to consist of a serjeant and ten men (regulars), 
together mth twenty-five irregulars imder the charge of my old 
Cairo dragoman, ]\Iohammed. 

Ali Genninar had the military command in the jDlace of the 
second vakeel, Eddrees, who was suff'ering from chronic dysentery. 
I had arranged that the party should start on the following day. 

In the afternoon I had an interview with Kabba Eega in his 
private divan, within our garden. I was suddenly interrupted 
by Ali Genninar and a few of his men, who presented them- 
selves in the face of Kabba Eega, to inform me that they could 
not start without their guns ! 

It appeared that on the day that Abd-el-Kader had ordered 
Kabba Eega to disarm the people of Suleiman upon his first 
arrival at j\Iasindi, the young king had certainly ordered their 
disarmament, but he had himself retained their arms and ammu- 
nition, in addition to a goatskin bag wath about 300 rounds of 
ball-cartridge. This had never been reported to me. 

The mendacious young king had the audacity to deny this, in 
face of several witnesses ; and he would at once have retired from 
the divan (and probably I should never have seen him again) had 
I not insisted upon his remaining until the aifoir had been 
thoroughly explained. 

It was then discovered that he had returned all the muskets to 
Abd-el-Kader, except five ; which were not forthcoming. 

I requested hitn in futiu-e to adhere more strictly to the truth ; 



CHAP. XIX.] THE STOLEN GUNS RESTOREI). 



339 



as it was a disgrace for a man in his position to tell a ftilsehood, 
whicli would render it impossible for me to place implicit con- 
fidence in him ; at the same time I insisted upon the immediate 
return of the guns, together with the cartouclie-l^elts and 
ammunition. 

The young king retired in great confusion and stifled anger, 
with a promise that everything should be restored ! 

In the afternoon he sent five wretched old muskets that had 
been injured in the stocks, and repaired with the raw hide of 
crocodiles. These had never belonged to the irregulars ; but he 
had kept their good guns, and hoped to exchange these wretched 
weapons, which had been given some years ago to Kamrasi by 
the vakeel, Ibrahim. 

I spoke very strongly to Kittakara, his favourite minister ; 
and explained to him the folly and discredit of such conduct. 

Kittakara replied : "Is not Kabba Eega your son 1 Do you 
begrudge him a few good guns and ammunition taken from your 
late enemies, the slave-hunters % " 

It was in vain that I endeavoured to explain that these people 
were subjects of the Khedive, and had now received forgiveness : 
therefore, as they were engaged as irregulars they must receive 
their arms. Kittakara simply replied : " Do you believe in 
these people? Do you think that, because they have now 
enlisted through fear, they will cA^er change their natures " 

I asked him "if soap would wash the black s^^ots from a 
leopard's skin 1 " but I explained that I could strip the skin at 
once off the leopard, and should quickly change their natures. 

Day after day passed, and the ammunition was only returned 
in driblets, after constant and most urgent demands. 

On 21st May I sent word to Kabba Eega (who had declined 
to appear in public or private) that if he persisted in this decep- 
tion I should myself be compelled to return to Fatiko, as it would 
be impossible for me to hold communications with any person in 
whom I could place no confidence. 

In the event of my departure from Unyoro he kncAv the con- 
sequences. He would be ridiculed by Kionga, who would join 
the slave-hunters and attack him should I withdraw my protec- 
tion. On the south he v/ould be invaded by M'tese, who would 
imagine that Kabba Eega had prevented me from visiting liim ; 
thus his country would be utterly ruined. 

The chiefs, ISTeka, Kittakara, and Matonse, to whom I spoke, 
appeared thoroughly to comprehend the position. 

During the day the five missing guns were returned, together 

Z 2 



340 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XIX. 



¦with tliG goatskin bag (cliorab), containing mucli of llic missing 
ammnnition — some of which had been abstracted. 

On 23rd May I sent off the party to Fatiko, together with the 
post — inchiding letters to Egypt, IQiartoum, and England, to be 
forwarded by first opportunity. ^ 

I wrote to AVat-el-]\Iek to offer him the command of an irregular 
corps of 400 men, wliich he was to raise immediately from those 
companies that were now thrown out of employment by the 
termination of the contract with Agad & Co. 

I sent written instructions to Major Abdullah to arrest Abou 
Saood^ and to liberate all the Unyoro slaves in the possession of 
his peopla He was then to forward Abou Saood, together with 
Suleiman, as prisoners, to the care of Eaouf Be}^ at Gondokoro ; 
and to march himself with his detachment and all effects, 
together with the liberated slaves, to Eoweera. 

Three hundred natives accompanied my party from Unyoro to 
transport the baggage of ]\Iajor Abdullah. 

I had not seen Kabba Eega since the day when he had 
lied concerning the possession of the muskets and ammunition. 
"Whether from shame or anger I could not tell, but he declined 
to ap23ear. 

The party started with the post, thus reducing my force by 
the departure of thirty-six men, including eleven regulars and 
twenty-five of the new irregular levy. 

I was now left with one hundred regulars, four sailors, and 
four armed Baris. 



CHAPTER XX. 

ESTABLISH COMMERCE, 

EoR some time past the natives had commenced a brisk trade 
witli ivory in exchange for all kinds of trifles, which left a mini- 
mum profit for the government of 1500 per cent. A fev/ beads, 
together v/ith three or four gaudy-coloured cotton haiidiverchiefs, 
a zinc mirror, and a fourpenny butcher's knife, would purchase 
a tuslv worth twenty or thii'ty pounds. I calculated all the 

1 These never arrived iu England. 



CHAP. XX.] 



LUCRATIVE TRADE. 



341 



expenses of transport from England, together with interest on 
capital. In some cases we purchased ivory at 2,000 per cent, 
profit, and both sellers and buyers felt perfectly contented. 

I am not sure whether this is considered a decent return for 
an investment of capital among the descendants of Israel ; but I 
am convinced that at the conclusion of a purchase in Unyoro 
each party to the bargain thought that he had the best of it. 
This was the perfection of business. 

Here v/as free trade thoroughly established : the future was 
tinged with a golden hue. Ivory would be almost inexhaustible, 
as it would flow from both east and west to the market where such 
luxuries as twopenny mirrors, fourpenny knives, handkerchiefs, 
ear-rings at a penny a pair, finger signet-rings at a shilling a 
dozen, could be obtained for such comparatively useless lumber 
as elephants' tusks. 

Manchester goods would quickly supersede the bark-cloths, 
which were worn out in a month, and, in a few years, every 
native of Unyoro would be able to appear in durable European 
clothes. Every man would be able to provide himself with a 
comfortable blanket for the chilly nights, and an important 
trade w^ould be opened that would tend to the development of 
the country, and be the first step towards a future civilization. 
Unfortunately for this golden vision, the young king, Kabba 
Rega, considered that he had a right to benefit himself exclu- 
sively, by monopolizing the trade with the government. He 
therefore gave orders to his people that all ivory should be 
brought to him ; and he strictly prohibited, on pain of death, 
the free trade that I had endeavoured to establish. 

The tusks ceased to arrive; or, if any individual was suf- 
ficiently audacious to run the risk of detection, he sent word 
beforehand, by Monsoor (who was known to be confidential), 
that he would bring a tusk for sale during the darkness of 
night. 

This was a troublesome afl'air. Annexation is always a 
difficult question of absolute right, but, as I trust my readers 
will acknowledge, I had done all that lay in my power for the 
real benefit of the country. I had to make allowance for the 
young king, who now had become a vassal, and I determined to 
observe the extreme of moderation. 

It was generally acknowledged that the conduct of the troops 
was most exemplary. No thefts had been allowed, nor even 
those trifling annexations of property which are distinguished 
from stealing by the innocent name of ''cribbing." Not a 



342 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XX. 



garden had been disturlDedj the tempting tobacco plantations 
had been rigidly respected, and the natives could only regard 
my troops as the perfection of police. They were almost as good 
as London police — there were no areas to the houses, neither in- 
sinuating cooks or housemaids, nor even nursemaids with babies 
in perambulators, to distract their attention from their municipal 
duties. 

Among my troops there was an excellent young man, named 
Eamadan, who was the clerk of the detachment. This intel- 
ligent young fellow was a general favourite among our own men, 
and also among the natives. He had a great aptitude for lan- 
guages, and he quickly mastered sufficient of the Unyoro to 
make himself understood. 

I arranged that Eamadan shonld become the schoolmaster, as 
it would be useless to establish commerce as a civilizing medium 
without in some Avay commencing a system of education. 

Eamadan was proud at the idea of being selected for this 
appointment. 

There was a son of Kittakara's, of about nine years old, named 
Cherri-]Merri. This nice little boy had paid us many visits, and 
had become a great favourite of my wife's. He usually arrived 
after breakfast, and was generally to be found sitting on a mat 
at her feet, playing with some European toys that were his great 
delight, and gaining instruction by conversation through the 
interpreter. 

Although Cherri-Merri was a good boy, he possessed the 
purely commercial instinct of Unyoro. He seldom arrived 
without a slave attendant, who carried on his head a package of 
something that was to be sold. 

He was told that it was bad taste to bring articles for sale to 
people who had shov/n him kindness, at the same time no 
presents would be received. The little trader quickly relieved 
himself of this difficulty by marching off with his slave and 
package to the soldiers' camp, where he exchanged his flour or 
tobacco for metal buttons, which they cut off their uniforms ; or 
for beads, or other trifles which they possessed. 

Cherri-Merri was a general favourite, and he was to form the 
nucleus for the commencement of a school. 

The station was now in perfect order. Altogether, including 
the soldiers' gardens, about three acres had been cleared and 
planted. Everything was well above ground, and was growing 
Avith that rapidity which can only be understood by those who 
have witnessed the vegetation of the tropics on the richest soil. 



OHAP. XX.] AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTS. 



343 



English cucumbers, varieties of melons, pumpkins, tomatoes, 
Egyptian radishes, onions, Egyptian cotton, &c., were all 
flourishing. Also a small quantity of wheat. 

Every cottage was surrounded by a garden; the boys had 
formed partnerships, and, having been provided with seeds, 
they had beds of pumpkins already nearly a foot above the 
ground. 

The girls and women-servants were as usual extremely indus- 
trious ; they also had formed little companies, and the merits of 
the rival gardens were often warmly discussed. 

Three acres of land, thus carefully cultivated, made a very 
civilized appearance. The cucumber plants had grown wonder- 
fully, and had already formed fruit. Not a leaf was withered 
or attacked by insects, and both the soil and climate of Masindi 
were perfection for agricultural experiments. The thermometer 
generally stood at 62° at six a.m., and at 78° at noon. The 
air was always fresli and invigorating, as the altitude above 
the sei-level was nearly 4,000 feet. 

An industrious population would have made a paradise of 
this country, but the Unyoro people are the laziest that I have 
ever seen. The days were passed either in sleep, or by the 
assembly of large crowds of idlers, who stood at the entrance 
of the broad, gravelled approach, and simply watched our 
proceedings. 

The only excitement was produced by the sudden rush of 
Kabba Eega's guards (bonosoora) with big sticks among the 
crowd, whom they belaboured and chased, generally possessed 
themselves of the best garments of those who were captured, 
with which they returned to their quarters, as lawful prizes. 

This daring system of thieving was considered as great fun by 
all those members of the crowd who had escaped : and the un- 
fortunates who had been reduced to nudity by the loss of their 
garments were jeered and ridiculed by the mob with true 
Unyoro want of charity. 

These bonosoora were an extraordinary collection of scoundrels. 

The readers of "The Albert IST'yanza" may remember the 
" Satanic Escort," with which I was furnished by Kamrasi for 
my journey from M'rooli to the lake ; these were bonosoora. I 
could never learn the exact number that formed Kabba Eega's 
celebrated regiment of blackguards, but I should imagine there 
were above 1,000 men who constantly surrounded him, and 
gained their living by pillaging others. 

Any slave who ran away from his master migiit find an asylum 



344 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XX. 



if he volunteered to enlist in the bonosoora. Every man who 
had committed some crime, or who could not pay his debts, 
could find a refuge by devoting himself to the personal care of 
the young king, and enrolling within the ranks of the royal 
guards. The general character of these ruffians may be easily 
imagined. They lounged away their time, and simply relieved 
the monotony of their existence by robbing passers-by of any- 
thing that attracted their cupidity. 

Umbogo belonged to this celebrated corps, and he informed 
me that hardly a night passed without some person being mur- 
dered by these people, who would always kill a man after dark, 
unless he yielded up his property without resistance. The great 
number of vultures that continually hovered over Masindi were 
proofs of Umbogo's story, as these birds generally denote the 
presence of carrion. My men had, on several occasions, found 
bodies lying in the high grass, neatly picked to the bone, which 
had only recently died. 

There was much to be done before the brutal customs of 
Unyoro could be reformed : and I was by no means satisfied 
with the conduct exhibited by Kabba Eega. He had promised 
faithfully that he would send a large force to clear away the 
high grass by which our station was surrounded; this ^was 
never fulfilled, neither could I engage the natives to work for 
hire. 

I had observed for some time past that his people were 
rapidly extending the town of Masindi, by erecting new build- 
ings upon both our flanks, which, although only a few yards 
from our clearing, were half obscured by the high grass ; thus it 
aj^peared that we Avei'e being gradually surrounded. 

Since the departure of the post with my escort and the 
irregidar levy, nothing was done by the natives, except the 
usual lounging by day, and drinking and howling, with drums 
and horns as an accompaniment, throughout the night. 

Kabba Eega had always declared that the natives would work 
for me and obey every order when the slave-hunters should have 
been expelled from the country. Although the people who 
were lately a portion of the slave-hunter's company had now 
been enlisted in the service of government, not one man re- 
mained in IMasindi, as I had sent them all away to Fatiko, at 
the particular request of Kabba Rega. 

The real fact was, that so lung as the slave-trader's people 
were in the country, both the king and his people knew that Ave 
were independent of native guides, as Suleiman's men knew all 



CHAP. XX.] SUSPICION OF FOUL PLAY. 



345 



the patlis, from their long experience of the country when en- 
gaged in the civil wars. It was considered that in the absence 
of the new levy of irregulars we should be perfectly helpless to 
move, as we were dependent upon Kabba Eega for guides. 

From the general conduct of the people since the departure of 
my party with the post to Fatiko, I had a strong suspicion that 
some foul play was intended, and that, when the 300 native car- 
riers should have talccn the people across the Victoria Nile, they 
would desert them in the night, and return Avith the boats. I 
therefore wrote a letter addressed to the second vakeel, Eddrees, 
ordering him to return at once to Masindi with the entire party 
if he had any suspicion of treacherj^ 

I concealed this note in a packet of blue cloth, together with 
a few little presents for Shooli and Gimoro, at Fatiko ; but I had 
written on the brown paper cover of the parcel, instructions that 
Eddrees or Mohammed, the dragoman, should search the contents, 
as a letter was hidden within. I gave this packet to Umbogo, 
telling him that it was a present for Shooli, and begging him to 
despatch a messenger without delay to overtake the party before 
they sliould have crossed the Victoria Mle. The native mes- 
senger, to whom I gave a small gratuity, immediately started; 
thus I should be al3le to forewarn my people in the event of 
trouble. 

In the afternoon Kabba Eega sent for me to repair the 
small musical box that I had given him, Avliich was slightly 
deranged. I replied that, until he fulfilled his agreement to 
clear the high grass from the neighbourhood, I could not 
think of attending to any request, as he had broken all his pro- 
mises. 

In half an hour after this answer he sent forty men, under 
Kittakara, to commence the clearing, as he was in despair about 
his musical box. 

Two native merchants from the distant country of Karagwe, 
who had been sent by their king, Eumanika, to purchase ivory 
from Unyoro, had arrived at Masindi. These people were 
brought to me on 26th May, accompanied by Kittakara, together 
with Umbogo, the interpreter. I observed that Kittakara was 
acting the part of spy, to overhear and to report the substance of 
the conversation. Some excitement had been caused by the 
report that two travellers were residing with Eumanika, and that 
these people had arrived from the M'wootan N'zige. I was in 
hopes that one of these travellers might be Livingstone. 

The Karagw(^ merchants were well-dressed, and very civilized- 



346 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XX. 



looking people. They stared upon arrival in the divan, and were 
shortly seated upon a mat before me. 

After some conversation, I questioned them concerning the 
travellers, and I immediately wrote both questions and replies in 
my journal, Avhich I now give verbatim. 

" Have you personally seen the travellers'? " 

Answer : " Yes ; one is tall, with a long beard and wJiite hair. 
The other is a very black man (an African), and short." 

Question: How do they eat 1 " 

Answer: " With a knife and fork and plate." 

Question : " Have they a compass " (Compass exhibited) 1 

Answer : " JSTo : but they have a small mirror like those in 
your possession." 

Question : " Do they purchase ivory 1 " 

Answer : " Yes.» AVe are now sent by Eunianika to buy ivory 
for them." 

Question : " Have they a large quantity "?" 

Answer : " An immense quantity. They have a large house, 
which is quite full." 

Question : " How will they transport it 1 " 

Answer : " They are building a vessel of iron on the INI'wootan 
IST'zige, upon the borders of Avhich they are now staying." 

Question: Do they know that I am commanding this 
expedition 1 " 

Answer : " Yes ; they have frequently asked ' whether you had 
arrived;' and they wish to go to Khartoum," 

"There is no trace of poor Livingstone in their description. I 
imagine that some enterprising Portuguese trader is building a 
ship to trade upon M'wootan X'zige. God help him if he tries to 
transport his ivory by this route. 

" I shall write to Livingstone by the first opportunity. Like 
all other of my informants, those native merchants told me that 
the M'wootan IS^'zige extended to Karagwe, after a long tarn to 
the west. It varied much in width, and at Karagwe it was 
narrow." 

Tor some days I had conversations with these intelligent people. 
They brought me t-wo elephants' tusks to sell, as they wished to 
show Rumanika the quality of goods that were now introduced 
from the north. I made them a few presents, after the bargain, to 
create a favourable impression, and I once more cross-examined 
them upon geographical questions. 

Their descrij)tion of the east shore of the M'wootan N'zige was 
as follows : — 



CHAP. XX.] GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION. 



347 



" South of Unyoro is a country — Kabboyu ; 

„ Kabboyu „ „ Tambooki; 

„ ,5 Tambooki „ „ M'Pororo; 

„ „ M'Pororo „ „ Euanda ; 

„ Euanda „ „ Baroondi ; 

„ „ Baroondi „ „ Cliibbogora; 

„ „ Chibb6g5ra „ „ Watuta; 

„ Watuta „ „ Machoonda." 

" Beyond the Machoonda they knew nothing, except that the 
lake extends for an enormous and unknown distance. 

" On the west shore, opposite Kabboyu and Tambooki, is 
situated the cannibal country of Booamba. 

" The route to Karagwe from Masindi, via the M'wootan 
N'zige (Albert K'yanza), is — take boat from Chibero (a day's 
long march from Masindi) to M'Pororo — at which spot yon leave 
the boat, and proceed overland in one day to the Karagwe 
frontier. 

" The Kittangule river passes through M'Pororo, N'Kole, 
and Kishakka, and, after a very winding course, it cuts through 
Karagwe, and falls into the Victoria 1^'yanza. 

" ' Baroondi ' must be Speke's ' XJrundi ; ' as I find that many 
names that he has prefixed with ' U ' are here pronounced as ' B.' 

" By Speke's map XJrundi is in about 3° south latitude. The 
M'wootan N'zige is therefore known to pass through Euanda, 
Baroondi, and the Watuta — or beyond the north end of the 
Tanganyika Lake. 

"This looks as though the Tanganyika and the M'wootan 
!N'zige were only one vast lake bearing different names according 
to the localities through which it passes." 

I have extracted this from my journal, as it was written at 
the moment that the information was given. I have no theory, 
as I do not indulge in the luxury of geographical theories ; but 
I sliclll give my information in the same words in which I received 
it from the natives. Speculative geographers may then form their 
own opinions. 

From the day when Kabba Eega had denied the possession of 
the guns and ammunition belonging to the irregular levy, he had 
never appeared at his new divan, neither had I seen him. 

Upon many occasions I had sent to request his attendance, but 
he was always in the sanctuary of his own private house, or rather 
establishment of houses : these were a series of enormous beehive- 
shaped straw and cane dwellings in a courtyard of about an acre, 



348 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XX, 



surrounded by a fence, and guarded by many sentries, each of 
-whom had a small hut built in the middle of the hedge. 

Since the departure of the irregular levy, I had noticed a 
decided change in the demeanour of the chiefs. KittakSra, who 
had been our greatest friend, could never look me in the face, 
but always cast his eyes upon the ground when speaking or 
listening. 

The food for the troops was obtained with the greatest difficulty, 
after constant worry and endless apphcations. It was in vain that 
I insisted upon the right of paying for a supply of corn ; the 
chiefs replied : " Is not Kabba Eega your son 1 can a son seU corn 
to his own father ? " 

At the same time we never had two days' provisions in store, 
and we were simply living from hand to mouth. This looked 
suspicious, as though the troops were to be rendered helpless by 
the absence of supplies in the event of hostilities. 

My few Baris consisted of my good interpreter Morgian, 
together with three other natives, who had been for some years 
in the employ of Suleiman. I had kept these people with me, 
as they knew something about the country and the Unyoros. 
They were all armed and were tolerably good shots. One of 
these fellows (Molodi), a native of the Madi country, was 
extremely useful and intelligent. He now told ms that I coid.d 
never depend upon Kabba Eega, and that he had simply begged 
me to send the irregulars out of the country in order that I should 
not hear the truth of his former conduct from them ; also, in 
their absence, I should be quite ignorant of the paths that were 
now completely overgrown with immensely high grass throughout 
the country. 

An incident occun-ed on the 31st May which caused me serious 
anxiety. 

The station was in complete order : the cultivation was thriv- 
ing, and the general appearance of the government settlement 
was a strong contrast to the surrounding wilderness of high grass, 
and the large and dirty town of ]\Iasindi. 

j\Iy troops were now without occupation, therefore I mstructed 
Colonel Abd-el-Kader to drill them every morning. 

It had been the daily practice of the band to march up and 
down the broad approach, and to perform nearly opposite Kabba 
Eega's public divan. 

Tliere was no clear place in wliich the troops could be drilled, 
except in the public square at the back of Kabba Rega's divan; 
this was about the centre of the town. 



CHAP. XX.] 



TUB WAR-DRUM ! 



34D 



The square was an open space of about two acres, and was the 
spot at which all public festivities were held, and where, upon 
many occasions, Kabba Eega delighted to sit, in a large open 
shed, to witness the absurd performance of his buffoons. 

This open space was well adapted for the exercise of a company 
of troops. I therefore ordered the men on parade, and I 
accompanied them myself together with Lieutenant Baker. 

The band played, as usual, at the head of the company, and 
we marched through the town to the open square. 

Here the troops were put through their musketry drill, and 
commenced various evolutions. 

To my astonishment, I saw the natives hurrying off in all 
directions. I was perfectly unarmed, as were also the officers 
(excepting their side arms) and Lieutenant Baker. 

Almost immediately the huge war-drum sounded in the house 
of Kabba Rega, and the dull hollow notes continued to beat the 
alarm ! 

In less than ten minutes, horns were blowing and drums were 
beating in all directions, and with extraordinary rapidity, some 
five or six thousand men came pouring down from every quarter, 
fully armed with spears and shields, in a state of frantic excite- 
ment, and at once surrounded the troops. Fresh bands of natives, 
all of whom were in their costume of war, continued to concen- 
trate from every side. The crowd of warriors leapt and gesticu- 
lated around my little company of men as though about to 
attack. 

I immediately gave the order to form a square mth fixed 
bayonets. This manoeuvre puzzled the natives extremely. 

They danced around the square, within a few feet of the glisten- 
ing row of bayonet-points, which were lowered so as to form an 
impenetrable fence. 

The officers were of course inside the square. I gave the men 
strict orders not to fire under any provocation, unless I gave the 
word of command, and attended by Lieutenant Baker and Mon- 
soor, the latter with his sword drawn, I left the square, and 
walked into the middle of the crowd, towards the three chiefs, 
Kahonka, Kittakara, and Matons6, Avho were all standing with 
lances in their hands, and apparently prepared for action. 

Although the situation was full of meaning, I thought the best 
policy was to appear amused. At this moment Monsoor struck 
up with his sword, a lance, which one of the frantic warriors, in 
the midst of his wild gesticulations, had advanced within a few 
inches of my back. 



350 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XX. 



The interpreters (many of Avhom I knew well) weie all armed 
with muskets, and the bonosoora were dressed in their usual fan- 
tastic manner when prepared for war ; a considerable number 
were provided with guns, 

The slightest accident would have caused a general outbreak 
of hostilities. I had eighty men on the ground ; the remainder 
of the force were at the station, about three hundred yards dis- 
tant, where Lady Baker, and all stores and ammunition, would 
have been in extreme danger, had an attack become general. 

I at once Avalked up to Rahonka and Kittakjira, and calling an 
interpreter, named Kadji-Barri, who was standing near them, 
dressed in Arab clothes, with his musket in his hand, and his 
cartouche-lDelt on his waist, I burst out laughing, and exclaimed : 
" Well done, Kadji-Barri ! this is famousl}" managed ; let us have 
a general dance. Ask Kittakara if my band shall play, or will 
you dance to your own music '? " 

This was immediately translated to the chiefs, and my 
demeanour seemed to cause some hesitation. I at once ordered 
our band to strike up. 

The instant that a well-known lively air commenced, I begged 
them to exhibit some native dance to amuse us. Seeing their 
hesitation, I inquired whether they would wish to see my men 
perform 1 After a few words between Kittakara and Eahonka, 
the former agreed that it would be better for my men to com- 
mence the dance first. 

I lost no time in explaining to Kittakara that he must at once 
address the crowd and assure them that the performance about 
to commence was intended for their amusement, and there Avas 
no cause for fear. At the same time, I begged him to order the 
crowd to stand back, and to a -ford space for my troops, who were 
about to advance with the bayonet. 

In a loud voice Kittcakara gave the necessary explanation. 

I ordered the bugler to sound the advance, and the whole band 
sounded the charge with the bayonet (sinjare cloran). 

At the inspiriting call, each side of the square advanced at 
the double with bayonets at the charge. The crowd, lately so 
demonstrative, fell quickly back, and, having thus cleared the 
square, I told Kittakara to order every individual of the crowd 
to sit down upon the ground. 

The great mass of people obeyed the order with the discipline 
of soldiers, and my troops fell back and re-formed their square 
as before. The little square, with a single line of front of twenty 
men, noAV occupied the centre of the clear space. 



CHAP. XX.] 



DIFFICULT POSITIOK". 



351 



I lost no time in inquiring for Kabba Eega, whom I insisted 
upon seeing. After a short delay he appeared, in company of 
some of his bonosoora. He was in a beastly state of intoxica- 
tion, and, after reeling about with a spear in his hand, he 
commenced a most imbecile attempt at warlike gestures. 

Had my eighty men been armed with breech-loaders, I could 
have mown down hundreds by a fire from the square, had hos- 
tilities been forced upon us ; but, as the greater portion were 
armed with old muskets, Ave might have been overwhelmed by a 
general rush, when reloading after the first volley. 

Kabba R(^ga was so drunk that he did not appear to recognize 
me, but he continued to reel about for a short time, and thus to 
expose his idiotic condition, until his chiefs at length recom- 
mended him to retire. 

Kittakara now explained that, if I wished to have a general 
dance, they would prepare a grand entertainment at some future 
time ; but he now begged me to withdraw the troops, as the sun 
was very hot, and the natives were fatigued. 

I assured Kittakara and the chiefs that the people had no 
cause for fear, and that now that my station was completed I 
should frequently bring the troops to the public square for mus- 
ketry drill, as there was no other open space, unless Kabba Roga 
would order his people to clear away the high grass, Avhich he 
had so often promised to do. 

The band now struck up, and the troops, in single file, marched 
through the narrow lanes of the crowded town. I walked at 
their head, and I was much pleased by seeing my little friend, 
Cherri-Merri, Avho ran out of the crowd, and taking my hand, 
he marched with us as a volunteer, and accompanied us to the 
station. 

Upon arrival at the government quarters, I found all hands 
armed and v/ell stationed for the defence of the divan and powder- 
magazine, by my wife, who was commandant in my absence. 
She had placed rockets in readiness to fire the townpn the instant 
of a volley of musketry being heard. My good little officer had 
also laid out a large supply of spare ammunition, together with 
every gun, rifle, and pistol, all of which were laid on a table in 
the divan, ready to repel an attack. 

I now sent for Rahonka, who was supposed to be the general 
of Rabba Rega's forces. 

The conduct of little Cherri-Merri was very gratifying, as he 
had adhered to his true friends in a moment of great uncertainty. 

Rahonka shortly appeared. My interpreter, Umbogo, was 



352 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XX. 



absent on leave for two days to visit his farm ; tlius Ealionka 
was accompanied by Kadji-Barri, who was well accustomed to 
us, and had often received presents. 

I now insisted upon an explanation concerning the sudden 
beating of the war-drum and the extraordinary assembly of the 
people armed for Avar. Eahonka looked foolish and nervous, as 
though he doubted the chance of a safe retreat. He could not 
give any satisfactory reason for the hostile display we had so 
recently witnessed, but he attributed it to the drunken state of 
Kabba Eega, who had sounded the alarm without any reason. 

I assured Eahonka that such conduct would not be permitted; 
and that if such a scene should occur again, I should not allow 
the troops to be surrounded by thousands of armed men, in 
hostile attitudes, without immediately taking the initiative. 

Eahonka retired, and in a few minutes we received twenty 
loads of corn for the troops, as a peace-offering. 

Thus ended the month of May, which had nearly closed in 
bloodshed. 

There could be no doubt that an attack upon the troops had 
been intended ; and I could not help admiring the organization 
of the people, that enabled so large a force to bo concentrated 
upon a given point in a few minutes after the alarm had sounded. 
My wife, upon whose cool judgment I could always depend, 
described vividly her apprehensions of treachery. She had 
witnessed the extraordinary energy which the natives had exhi- 
bited in rushing from the neighbouring villages, almost immedi- 
ately when the war-drum had sounded. They had poured in 
streams past the station, and had brandished their lances and 
shields at her as they thronged at full S2:>eed within fifty yards of 
the government clearing. 

Fortunately, when the big nogara had sounded, both she and 
the troojDS understood the signal, and with praiseworthy speed 
she had placed every man in position to defend the station. 
Even the servants and our black bo^^s were armed^ and occupied 
the posts assigned to them. AVithout these precautions it is 
highly probable that the station would have been attacked, in 
wdiich case it might have been at once overwhelmed by so 
immense a superiority of force. 

I felt that on the whole we had narrowly escaped from ruin. 
My intention, when in the open square, had been to seize a riflo 
from a soldier, and at once to shoot Kabba Eega had hostilities 
commenced after his appearance ; but, even had we been able 
to hold our own, with a party of eighty men, we should have 



CHAP. XX. i SULLEN BEHAVIOUR OF KABBA REGA. 



353 



lost tlie entire station, together with all our ammunition, and 
every soul would have been massacred. 

I had serious misgivings for the future. This demonstration 
looked extremely had after the departure of my thirty-six men 
with the post to Fatiko. If Kahba Rega and his people were 
treacherous, they could easily murder the party whom they were 
pretending to escort as friends. 

On the other hand, I could not conceive why Kabba Rega or 
his people should be ill-disposed, unless he harboured resentment 
on. account of the discovery of his theft of the muskets and 
ammunition from the irregulars, which I had forced him to 
restore. 

My Baris and MoLldi all declared that he was suspicious 
because I had pardoned the slave-hunters and received them into 
government service. This merciless young villain, who had so 
treacherously murdered his own kith and kin, had no conception 
of forgiveness ; thus he could not understand why I had not 
killed the slave-hunters when they were once in my power. 

There was no doubt that discontent rankled deeply in his heart 
for some cause or other ; as he had never appeared, or received 
visits, for many days, but had sulkily shut himself up within his 
own court. 

He only went out daily, at a certain time, to collect subscrip- 
tions for the pay of his beloved rascals, the bonosoora ; but this 
led him through the town in the opposite direction to our camp, 
therefore we never saw him. 

The collection of alms was a most undignified proceeding. At 
the hour of his exit from his house, a band of fifes or flageolets 
struck up a peculiar air which was well known as the signal for 
preparing to pay for the king's visit. The few notes they played 
was a monotonous repetition of : — 

14 



As his pipes played before him, Kabba Ecga called at any 
houses that he thought proper to select, and received from the 
inmates of each, a few cowrie shells, which are used as the 
smallest coin in Unyoro. These shells were afterwards divided 
among his bonosoora as their daily pay. 

My station had not been arranged for defence, as I considered 
that hostilities in this country could not be possible. Although 

A A 



354 



ISxMAILlA. 



[chap. XX. 



black human nature is tlie darkest shade of character, I never 
could have believed that even Kabba Eega could have harboured 
treacherous designs against us, after the benefits that both he and 
his people had received from me. The country had been relieved 
from the slave-hunters, and my people were actually on the road 
to Fatiko to liberate and restore to their families about 1,000 
women and children of Unyoro. I was about to establish a 
school. ]^o thefts had taken place on the part of the troops. 
The rights of every native had been respected. The chiefs had 
received valuable presents, and the people had abeady felt the 
advantage of legitimate trade. 

At the same time that hostility appeared impossible, I could 
not blind myself to the fact of the late demonstration ; it would 
therefore be absolutely necessary to construct a small fort, for the 
security of the ammunition and effects, which could no longer be 
exposed in simple straw huts, without protection. 

I explained this necessity to my officers and men, all of whom 
were keenly alive to the evil spirit of Ilabba Eega, from whom 
they expected future mischief. 

This miserable j^oung fellovv^ was nearty ahvaj^s drunk; his 
time was passed in sucking plantain cider through a reed, until 
he became thoroughly intoxicated. 'We were, therefore, subject 
to any sudtbai order that he might give in a fit of drunkenness. 

His people obeyed him implicitly, with that fanatical belief 
that is held in Unyoro respecting the person who occupies the 
magic throne (Bam.ba). 

There could be no doubt that he Avas ofiended and insulted : 
therefore, according to the principle in vino Veritas, he might 
pluck up courage to surprise us when least expected. 

I determined to build a fort immediately. 

I drew a plan of a circular stockade, surrounded by a ditch 
and earthen paiajjet. The ditch ten feet wide by seven deep. 
The diameter from scarp to scarp, sixty feet; diameter of inner 
circular court, thirty-six feet. 

With tlie assistance of Lieutenant Baker I drew tbe plan on 
the ground, and my troops set to work with that vigour wliicli 
always distinguished them. 

There were numerous largo trees of the fig tribe in the imme- 
diate neighbourliood. This wood Avas exactly adapted for the 
purpose, as it was easy to cut, and at the same time it was 
undying when once planted in the ground. Any log of the 
barlc-eloth tree will take root if Avatcred. 

The axes with which the men were provided now came into 



OHAP. XX.] 



COMMENCE A FORT. 



355 



play, and the clicking of so many tools at work at once surprised 
the natives. Eahonka, Kittakara, and other chiefs came to 
inquire concerning our intention. 

I explained the necessity of storing the gunpowder in a fire- 
proof building. Only a few days ago several native huts had 
been burnt ; such an accident might endanger our station, there- 
fore I should construct an earthen roof over a building of strong 
palisades. I explained that should the whole of the ammunition 
ex23lode, it might ignite and destroy Masindi. 

My men thoroughly understood their work. Immense logs, 
nine feet in length, and many upwards of two feet in diameter, 
were planted, close together, in holes two feet deep. Any in- 
terstices were filled up with smaller posts sunk firmly in the 
ground. The entrance to the little fort was a projecting passage, 
about twelve feet long, and only three feet wide, formed of two 
rows of enormous palisades, sunk two feet six inches in the 
earth, which was pounded closely down with heavy rammers. 
This passage was an important feature in the power of defence, 
as it added to the flanking fire. A reference to the plan will 




Scale 36 ft=i.inch 

Plan of small circular fort at Masindi with fire-proof rooms ; Ditch left unfinished. 

show that the arrangement of this small fort gave us three fire- 
proof rooms for the protection of stores and ammunition, and for 

A A 2 



356 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XX. 



tho accommodation of tlie necessary guard. Each of these rooms 
vras formed of the strongest palisades, upon which I arranged a 
flat roof of thick posts, laid parallel, which were covered with 
tempered earth and chopped straw for the thickness of a foot. 

The earth from the ditch would lie against the outside face of 
the stockade, at an angle of about 40° from the edge of the 
ditch to within eighteen inches of the projecting roof : thus the 
defenders could fire from the strong rooms through the interstices 
of the upright timbers. 

We commenced this fort on the morning of 2nd June, and 
every palisade was in its place and firmly rarnmed down by the 
evening of the 5tli; thus, in four days' hard work we had an 
impregnable protection in a position nearly half-Avay between 
the entrance of the main approach and the government divan. 

The digging of the ditch was connnenced, but this was a 
longer operation, as we were provided with the light Unyoro 
hoes, which were not sufficiently powerful to cut through tho 
hard gravel subsoil. 

The interpreter, Umbogo, returned on 3rd June. He could 
not in the least explain the hostile demonstration of 31st May. 
This added to my suspicion, as Umbogo must have knov/n more 
than he chose to tell. 

On the 4th June envoys arrived direct from ^yl'tese, the king 
of Uganda, with a letter of vrelcome, written in Arabic, ad- 
dressed to myself. 

The principal messenger was one of M'tcso's headmen, named 
Waysooa. Tlie commandcer-in-chief, CongoAV, had also sent a 
representative, named Bonncggcsali ; these people were accom- 
panied by an interpreter named Bokamba. 

The envoys v/ere remarkably well-dressed, in Indian clothes, 
and they appeared quite civihzed, as though native merchants of 
Bombay. 

They now delivered their credentials from King M'tesc : 
these were objects that had been given to him many years ago 
by Speke and Grant. A printed book (KalTre lawi<), several 
water-colour drawings, including a picture of a guinea-foAvl and 
a yellow-breasted pigeon; also a little folding-book with sketches 
of British soldiers of various regiments. These I carefully 
examined and returned to the envoys, who wrapped them neatly 
in a piece of calico as great treosures.^ 

^ I must acknowledge the important assistance rendered by the King 
l^I'tcse, which was the result of the good reputation left by my precursors, 
Speke and Grant. 



CHAP. XX.] 



I WRITE TO M'TJB«E. 



The general, Congow, had sent a tusk to sell/ I declined 
the offer, but I sent him a scarlet blanket as a present. I also 
packed up an assortment of handsome articles for INL'tese, in- 
cluding many yards of orange-coloured gold brocade, sufficient 
for a large flowing robe. 

I gave presents to the envoys, and they aj^peared delighted, 
bowing frequently to the ground while upon their knees, with 
their hands clasped together, and repeating the word, " K'y^'^* 
zig," "N'yanzig," "o^'yanzig." 

In reply to my inquiries, nothing had been heard of Living- 
stone. I sent M'tcse a letter in Arabic, begging him to use 
every exertion in a search for the great traveller, and to forward 
liim to me, should he be so fortunate as to discover liim. At 
the same time I M'rote two letters, which I addressed to Living- 
stone ; in tliese I gave him the necessary information. I con- 
signed them to the care of M'tcse, to be forwarded to any 
travellers who might be heard of, far or near. 

In my letter to M'tcse, I complimented him upon the 
general improvement of his country, and upon his conversion 
from heathenism to a belief in the Deity. I explained, that 
owing to his kindness to Speke and Grant, his name had 
become known throughout the v/orld, and I begged him to show 
the same attention to Livingstone. 

I described the object of the expedition, in o]3ening up a trade 
from the north that would bring merchandise of every descrip- 
tion to his kingdom ; but I advised him to send his own carriers, 
as I felt sure that Kabba Rega was ah'cady jealous, and would 
endeavour to prevent the opening of the commercial road to 
M'tese, as he would himself wish to monopolize the trade. 

This was a little stroke of diplomacy that I felt sure would 
open a direct communication without delay, as M'tese looked 
down with contempt upon Kabba Rega, and would at once feel 
insulted at opposition from such a quarter.^ 

Should I have any open rupture with Kabba Rega, M'tese 
would at once attribute the cause to the obstructive and selhsh 
character of the ruler in XJnyoro. 

I explained to the envoys all that I had Avritten to M'tese, 
and having exhibited the varieties of merchandise that belonged 
to the expedition, I took tliem into the wonderful private house, 
where they were introduced to the Queen, and the Princess of 
Wales, and the gaudy ladies, together with the fox-hunters and 

* The good effect of this policy wiU be seen toAvards the close of the 
expedition. 



358 



ISMAILlA. 



[OHAP. XX. 



hounds, the large mirrors, the wheel of life, &c. ; all of which 
were duly explained to them. A good shock with the magnetic 
battery wound up the entertainment, and provided them with 
much material for a report to their royal master upon their 
return to Uganda. 

The geographical information afforded by these people I shall 
extract verhatim from my journal, in which it was written at 
that particular time : thus, geographers will hear all that I heard, 
and they may form various opinions, which will perhaps add 
still further to the interest pertaining to the mysteries of Central 
Africa. 

^' The native name for the Victoria X'yanza is ^^'erraa Bali. 
There are two lakes adjoining each other, one is Xerraa Bali, 
the other Sessi; both of which are very large, and they are 
separated by a neck of land about a day's march across, 

" On the Sessi Lake the natives live on floating islands, and 
subsist by fishing; exchanging their fish for flom-, &c., upon 
the main land. 

" There is a narrow water-communication through the neck of 
land or isthmus, which can be passed through by a canoe in one 
day." 

On the 5th June the envoys returned towards Uganda, 
having been highly gratified with their visit. They had ap- 
peared much concerned at hearing of poor Speke's death ; and 
continued to exclaim for some minutes, " Wah! Wah! Speekee! 
Speekee! Wah ! Speekee!" 



CHAPTER XXI. 

TREACHERY. 

For some days past, Kabba Eega had frequently sent his inter" 
preters with messages, that he wished to sell the ivory which he 
had collected for the government. We had noticed on several 
occasions many people laden with large elephants' tusks, who 
invariably marched towards the same direction. The dragoman, 
Kadji-Barri, daily brought ivory for sale for the account of his 
master; and exchanged tusks for all kinds of trifles, such aa 
porcelain cups and saucers, small musical boxes, &c., &c. 



OHAP. XXI.] THE POISONED DRINK. 



359 



On 6 til June, twenty-one tusks were purchased from the mes- 
sengers of Kabba Eega, and I thought that the young king was 
getting tired of his sulky fit, and that we should be once more 
friends. 

The supply of food was always a trouble. Every day was 
passed in repeated applications to the authorities for supplies, 
which were at length grudgingly bestowed. 

On 7th J une, there was nothing for the troops to eat. Al- 
though on 31st May we had received twenty loads of corn, these 
were siijiply the long narrow packages which are so neatly made 
of the plantain bark throughout Unyoro, but which contain 
very little. 

Several times during the day Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el- 
Kader, together with Monsoor, had been sent to to the divan 
of Kabba Rega, to impress upon his chiefs the necessity of 
a supply of food. They explained my great annoyance, as this 
was precisely the result that I had foretold when Kabba Eega 
had neglected to clear the ground for cultivation. 

At about 3 P.M., the tall chief Matonse appeared, together 
with Umbogo, and several natives, who carried five large jars of 
plantfdn cider. These were sent to me from Kabba Rega, with 
a polite but lying message, that ''he much regretted the scarcity 
of corn ; there was positively none in Masindi, but a large quan- 
tity would arrive to-morrow from Aggus6." In the mean time 
he begged I would accept for the troops a j)resent of five jars of 
cider. 

I declined to accept the present, as I did not require drink, 
but solid food for the troops. The jars were therefore returned. 

About sunset Matonse again apj^eared, accompanied by Um- 
bogo and natives with seven jars of cider, and two large packages 
of flour, which he assured me had been borrowed from Rahonka. 
He was exceedingly polite, and smiled and bowed, beseeching 
me to accept the cider, as plenty of corn would be sent on the 
following day, when ])etter arrangements would be made for 
future supplies. 

I could no longer refuse the cider, therefore I sent for Abd-el- 
Kader, and gave him five jars for the officers and troops. 

It was at this time about seven o'clock, and we sat down to 
dinner in the divan, as it was too chilly to dine outside. 

We had just finished dinner, when Abd-el-Kader suddenly 
entered the divan in a state of troubled excitement, to inform 
me that " many of the troops appeared to be dying, and they 
}iad evidently heexi poiso?ied by the plantain cider ! " 



360 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



I inquired " liow many men had drunk from the jars " He 
could not tell, but he feared that at least half the company- 
had taken some portion, more or less. He had himself drunk a 
tumblerful, and he already felt uncomfortable, with a tightness 
of the throat, and a burning pain in his inside. 

I at once flew to my medicinal arms. Independently of the 
large medicine-chest, I had a small box, about nine inches by 
five, which contained all that could be desired for any emerg- 
ency. This little chest had been my companion for twenty-five 
years. 

I begged my wife to get as much mustard and strong salt 
and water ready as she could mix in a hurry, and I started off 
with Abd-el-Kader and Lieutenant Baker. I immediately sent 
Monsoor to find Umbogo. 

On arrival at the camp, which was about 120 yards distant, 
my first order was to double all the sentries. 

I found the men in a terrible state. Several lay insensible, 
while about tliirty were suffermg from violent constriction of 
the throat, which almost prevented them from breathing. This 
was accompanied by spasms and burning pain in the stomach, 
with delirium, a partial palsy of the lower extremities, and in 
the worst cases, total loss of consciousness. 

I opened the jaws of the insensible, and poured down a dessert- 
spoon-ful of water, containing three grains of emetic tartar, and, in 
about ten minutes, I dosed everybody who had partaken of the 
poisoned cider with the same emetic, while I insisted upon a 
flood of mustard and salt and water being swallowed. Fortun- 
ately w^e had everything at hand. The soldiers who were sound 
w^ere all nursing the sick, and they poured down gallons of 
brine, until the patients began to feel the symptoms of a rough 
passage across the British Channel. 

j\Iy servants always kept the lanterns trimmed — this was a 
positive order. The lights were now moving to and fro, and 
having seen all the poisoned under the full effect of a large dose 
of tartarised antimony, with an accompaniment of strong brine 
and mustard, I returned to the divan, where I found Umbogo 
had just arrived with Monsoor, vdio had met with him at his 
own hut. 

I sat cjuietly at the table as though nothing had occurred. 
*'Are you fond of merissa, Umbogo']" 
" Yes," he replied. 

" Would you like to drink some that you brought from Ivabba 
Rega, this evening 1 " 



onAP. XXI.] UMBOGO PROVED NOT GUILTY. 



361 



" Yes, if you liave any to spare," replied Umbogo. 

I ordered Monsoor to fill a gourd-shell that would contain 
about a quart. This was handed to him, together with a 
reed. 

Umbogo began to suck it vigorously through the tube. My 
wife thought he was shamming. 

" Drink it off, Umbogo ! " I exclaimed. 

He drank with enjoyment — there was no mistake. 

" Stop him ! — that's enough, Umbogo ! Don't drink it all." 
The man was evidently not guilty, although he had been 
employed to bring the poisoned stuff. 

Umbogo had only to leave the divan and turn the corner, 
before he fell to the ground, with the same symptoms that had 
been exhibited among the men. He had drunk more than tlio 
others. His eyes were blood-stained, and nearly started fvom 
his head, as he strove wildly upon the ground and wrestled 
with those who endeavom'cd to assist him, in a state of totrJ 
unconsciousness. 

I was by his side immediately, and administered the same 
remedies. 

I now ordered all the sick men to be either carried or led 
within the fort, from which they could not escape. Those who 
were slightly better, now endeavoured to wander about in 
delirium, and they would have been lost in the high grus^i 
unless I had thus secured them. 

All that was possible had been done; the sick were secured, 
and the night guards for relief Avere at their posts with double 
sentries awake and on duty ; thus no man would sleep witliin 
the station. 

I sent Monsoor to call the chief, Matonse, whose house ^vas 
within 200 yards of the government divan. 

Monsoor shortly returned without Matonse. He had brought 
an interpreter from this chief, in lieu of Umbogo, who was in- 
capacitated ; and Matonse had sent a message " that he could 
not come to me in the dark, but he would call on the following 
day." 

In the mean time an ominous stillness reigned throughout the 
usually boisterous population of Masindi. Not a sound was to 
be heard, although the nightly custom of the people was singing, 
howling, and blowing horns. 

My arms and ammunition were always in readiness, but I 
filled up my pouches to the maximum of fifty cartridges, and at 
midnight I went to bed. 



362 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



I woke frequently to listen, as I was anxious, and therefore 
slept liglitly. The faithful ]\Ion3oor was under arms, and was 
pacing throughout the whole night before my door; he never slept. 

At about 2 A.M. there was a sound throughout the to^wn of 
fowls cackling, as though they were being disturbed and caught 
while at roost. 

At about 3 A.M. the lowing of cattle was heard, as though 
Kabba Eega's cows were being driven off. 

A little after 5 a.m. I got up, and went out at daybreak to 
visit the sick within the fort. I found Monsoor waiting by my 
door. 

The emetics had counteracted the poison, and my patients, 
although weakly, were quite out of danger. 

Having examined them, I ordered the men to their C|uarters, 
and they all left the fort, with the exception of the night guard. 

The two interpreters, Umbogo and Aboo Kooka, were secured 
by a thin cord fastened round their necks. 

Having given all the necessary instructions, I ordered Mon- 
soor to go to the chief Matonse, with a message that I wished 
to see him, as the men had been ill after drinking the cider, and 
altliongh now recovered, it would be satisfactory if he would 
examine the remaining jars. 

^Jonsoor took his riiie, and accompanied by a corporal, Ferritch 
Baggfira, one of the best soldiers of the Forty Thieves," started 
on his mission. Jlatonse's house, as already described, was 
within 200 yards of the government divan. 

It was now about 5.45 a.m. I noticed that Kabba Eega's 
divan, within fifty yards of the gOAxrnment house^ seemed full 
of people, some of whom were washing their faces, as though 
they had just risen from sleep. 

^ly Avife had now joined me, and, according to my usual 
habit, I strolled up and down the broad gravelled apj)roach and 
smoked a short pipe. We were conversing together about the 
present state of affairs, and were anxiously expecting the return 
of ^Monsoor with IMatonse, who v/ould perhaps throw some light 
on tlie matter. 

I was followed closely by a bugler and a choush (sergeant). 
The .main entrance of the approach from the town was bordered 
upon either side b}-- a dense plantation of castor-oil trees, which 
continued in a thick fringe along the edge of the garden, so as 
to screen the huts from our view, although the}'' were ^vithin 
twenty jjaces of the entrance of the drive. 

The castor-oil bushes were within live yards of the entrance, 



OHAP. XXI.] THE ATTACK UPON THE STATION. 



363 



and gradually increased the distance, as they turned obliquely 
towards the private divan of Kabba Rega. 

We little suspected that sharpshooters were already concealed 
within this dense covert. 

My wife and I had reached the entrance of the approach. 
^Nothing seemed to denote hostility, on the part of the natives, 
no person being visible, except those guards who occupied the 
king's divan. 

Suddenly we were startled by the savage yells of some thou- 
sand voices, which burst unexpectedly upon us ! 

This horrible sound came from the direction of Matonse's 
house, and was within 120 yards from the spot on which we 
stood ; but the tovv^n was not visible, owing to the thick covert 
of oil bushes. 

The savage yells were almost immediately followed by two 
rifle shots in the same direction. 

" Sound the taboor ! " Fortunately I gave this order to the 
bugler by my side without one moment's delay. 

I had just time to tell my wife to run into the divan and get 
my riile and belt, when the sharpshooters opened fire at me from 
the bushes, within a few yards. 

I had white cotton clothes, thus I was a very clear object. 
As I walked towards the divan to meet my ritie, the Serjeant 
who followed close behind me fell shot through the heart. Poor 
fellow, the shot was aimed at me ! 

The troops had fallen into position with extraordinary rapidity, 
and several ascended the roof of the fort, so as to see clearly over 
the high grass. A soldier immediately fell, to die in a few 
minutes, shot through the shoulder-blade. Another man of the 
" Forty Thieves " was shot through the leg above the knee. The 
bullets were flying through the government divan, and along the 
approach. 

A tumultuous roar of savage voices had burst from all sides, 
and the whole place was alive a few instants after the first two 
shots had been heard. Thousands of armed natives now rushed 
from all directions upon the station. 

A thrill went through me when I thought of my good and 
devoted Monsoor ! 

My wife had quickly given me my belt and breechloading 
double rifle. 1 Fortunately I had filled up the pouches on the 
previous evening with fifty rounds of cartridge. 

^ This beautiful weapon, I have already mentioned, was made by Mr. 
Holland, of Bond Street, London. 



364 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



The troops were now in open order, completely around the 
station, and were pouring a lieavy fire into the masses of the 
eneni}^ within the high grass, wliich had been left pur^Dosely un- 
cleared by Kabba Eega, in order to favour a treacherous attack. 

The natives kept up a steady nre upon the front from behind 
the castor-oil bushes and the densely thronged houses. 

With sixteen men of the " Forty Thieves," together with 
Colonel Abd-el-Kader and Lieutenant Baker, E.X., I directed a 
heavy fire into the covert, and soon made it too hot for the 
sharpshooters. I had ordered the blue lights at the commence- 
ment of the attack. j\Iy black boys, Saat and Bellaal, together 
with some soldiers, now arrived with a good supply. 

Covering their advance with a heavy fire from the sidders, the 
boys and men rushed forward, and immediately ignited Kabba 
Pcega's large divau. 

These active and plucky lads now ran nimbly from hut to hut, 
and one slight touch of the strong fire of the blue lights wa3 
sufhcient to insure the imition of the straw dwellino-s. 

o o 

I nov/ sent a party of fifteen sniders, under Lieutenant Fer- 
ritch Agha, one of my most courageous officers, with a supply of 
blue lights, to set fire to the town on our left flank, and to push 
on to the spot where the missing Monsoor and Ferritch had fired 
their rifles. 

Every arrangement having been rapidly carried out, the boys 
and a few men continued to fire the houses on our right fiank ; 
and giving the order to advance, our party of sixteen rushed 
forward into the town. 

The right and left flanks Avere now blazing, and the flames 
were roaring before the wind. I heard the rattlmg fire of the 
sniders under Ferritch Agha on our left, and knowing that both 
flanks were now thoroughly secured by the conflagration, we 
dashed straight for Kabba liega's principal residences and court, 
driving the enemy before us. Colonel Abd-el-Kader was an 
excellent officer in action. We quickly surrounded Kabba Ixcga's 
premises, and set fire to tlie enormous straw buildings on all 
sides. 

If he had been at home he would have had a warm reception, 
but the young coward had fled with all his women before the 
action had commenced, together with the magic bamba or throne, 
and the sacred drum. 

In a few minutes the conflagration was terrific, as the great 
court of Kabba Eega blazed in flames seventy or eighty feet 



OHAP. XXI. i 



THE BATTLE OF MASINDL 



365 



high, which the wind drove in vivid forks into the thatch of the 
adjacent houses. 

We now followed the enemy throughout the town, and the 
sniders told with sensible effect wherever they made a stand. 
The blue lights continued the work ; the roar of flames and the 
dense volumes of smoke, mingled with the continued rattle of 
musketry, and the savage yells of the natives, swept forward 
with the breeze, and tlie capital of XJnyoro Vv^as a fair sample of 
the infernal regions. 

The natives were driven out of the town, but the high grass 
was swarming with many thousands, who, in the neighbourhood 
of the station, still advanced to attack the soldiers. 

I now ordered " The Forty" to clear the grass, and a steady 
fire of snider rifles soon purged the covert upon which the enemy 
had relied. 

In about an hour and a cpaarter the battle of Masindi was 
won. Not a house remained of the lately extensive town. A 
vast open space of smoke and black ashes, with flames flickering 
in some places where the buildings had been consumed, and at 
others j'orked sheets of fire where the fuel was still undestroyed, 
were the only remains of the capital of Unyoro. 

The enemy had fled. Their dfurns and horns, lately so noisy, 
were now silent. 

I ordered the bugle to sound " cease firing." We marched 
through the scorching streets to our station, whore I found my 
wife in deep distress. 

The bugle sounded the assembly, and the men mustered, and 
fell in for the roll-call. Four men were missing. 

Lying on the turf, close to the fort wall, were four bodies 
arranged in a row and covered v/ith cloths. 

The soldiers gathered round them as I approached. The cloths 
were raised. 

llj eyes rested on the pale features of my ever faithful and 
devoted officer, Monsoor ! There was a sad expression of pain 
on his face. I could not help feeling his pulse ; but there was 
no hope ; this was still. I laid his arm gently by his side, 
and pressed his hand for the last time, for I loved Monsoor as 
a true friend. 

His body v\^as pierced with thirty-two lance wounds ; thus he 
had fought gallantly to the last, and he had died like a good 
soldier ; but he was treacherously murdered instead of dying on 
a fair battle-field. 



366 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



Poor Ferritcli Baggara was lying next to him, with two lance 
wounds tlirough the chest. 

The other bodies were those of the choiish that had fallen 
by my side, and the soldier who had been shot on the parapet. 

We Avere all deeply distressed at the death of poor Monsoor. 
There never was a more thoroughly unselfish and excellent man. 
He was always kind to the boys, and would share even a scanty 
meal in hard times with either friend or stranger. He Avas the 
lamb in peace, and the lion in moments of danger. I owed him 
a debt of gratitude, for although I -was the general, and he had 
been only a corj^oral when he first joined the expedition, he had 
watched over my safety like a brother. I should never see his 
like again." 

Monsoor was the only Cliristian, excepting the European party. 

The graves were made. I gave out new cloth from the stores 
in which to v\Tap the bodies of four of my best men, and they 
were buried near the fort. 

My heart was very heavy. God knows I had Avorked Avith 
the best intentions for the benefit of the country, and this Avas 
the lamentable result. My best men were treacherous]}^ murdered. 
We had narroAAdy escaped a general massacre. We had Avon the 
battle, and Masindi AA\as swept from the. earth. Wliat next 

I find these Avords, Avhich I extract from my journal, as they 
Avere AAaittenat that moment : — 

" Thus ended the battle of ]\Iasindi, caused by the horrible 
treachery of the natives. Had I not been quick in sounding 
the bugle and immediately assuming a Aagorous ofiensive, we 
should have been overwhelmed by numbers. 

Since Ave have been in this country, my menhave been models 
of A'irtue ; nothing has been stolen, except a few potatoes on one 
occasion, Avhen the thief AA'as publicly punished, and the potatoes 
restored to the OAvner, neither have the natiA^es been interfered 
Avith in any manner. I haA^e driA^en the slaA^e -hunters from 
their country'-, and my troops from Fatiko are ordered to restore 
to Unyoro all the slaA^es that have been stolen by the traders. 
The disgusting ingratitude and treachery of the negro surpasses 
imagination. 

" What is to become of these countries ? all my good-Avill 
brings forth evil deeds." 

In the battle of ]\Iasindi nothing could liaA^e exceeded tbe cool, 
soldier-like bearing of both oflTicers and men. EA'ery man had done 
his duty. In tlie first onset, Avhcn about scA^en or eight thousand 
natives had suddenly attacked tlie station, the men had not only 



CHAP. XXI.] 



BEHAVIOtJR 0¥ THE TROOPS. 



367 



fallen into position for tlie defence of the camp witli extraordi- 
nary alacrity, but they had behaved with extreme Ksteadiness and 
coolness, and not a man had moved from his post without orders. 

The attacking parties, formed exclusively of the " Forty 
Thieves," had exhibited an activity and elcui for which this 
gallant little corps was eminently distinguished ; and had they 
been European troops, their conduct upon this occasion, against 
such overwhelming odds, would have covered them with glory. 

We had no newspaper correspondents, therefore I must give 
tlie due praise to my officers and men. 

Daring the day I established patrols tnroughout the now 
cleared space lately occupied by the town. 

In the afternoon IJjnbogo was able to call some natives who 
were within earshot. These men explained that the chief, 
Matonse, was the cause of the outbreak, and that it was his 
people who, b}^ his orders, had killed Monsoor and Ferritch. 

TJmbogo had been set at liberty during the fight, but I now 
secured him by the neck to a leathern thong in the hand of a 
sentry ; for, although a good man, I could not afford to lose him, 
and the devil might have tempted him to run away. 

In the afternoon some natives cried out that Kittakara v/as 
coming, and Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, with a few men, 
immediately went out to meet him. 

Kittakara would not approach within less than about a hun- 
dred yards, but he assured Abd-el-Kader that the outbreak was 
not the fault of Kabba Eega, but that the responsibility lay with 
Matonse, who had escaped, and that he should be captured and 
delivered up to me. 

He continued to assure Abd-el-Kader that Kabba Rega had 
already ordered provisions and a large number of elephants' tusks 
to be collected for us, and that, although for the j^resent he was 
hiding through fear in the high grass, he would quickly rebuild 
his divan close to my own, so as to live in friendship. 

It was impossible to credit one syllable in Unyoro. On the 
other hand, should I be unable to bring the enemy to terms, I 
should be chained to the spot, as it would be impossible to 
transport my baggage. 

It v\'as an aAvkward position. The treacher}^ had been fright- 
ful, and I could only attribute it to Kabba Reg:i's orders, in spite 
of the protestations of Kittakara. If I should be right in my 
suspicions, what would become of Major Abdullah and his 
detachment '? 

Nothing would be easier for the 300 natives who had acconi- 



36S 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



panied my people with tlie post, than to behave well on the route 
to Fatiko, in order to establish confidence. They could then 
carry all the effects and ammunition, in company with Abdullah 
and his troops, from Fatiko to Unj'-oro, and in the i^rairie wilder- 
ness, they might murder every man at night when asleep, and 
possess themselves of the arms, ammunition, and effects, with 
wliich they would rejoin Kabba Rega. 

This was a frightful idea ; and there could be no doubt that 
such treachery had been planned, if Kabba Eega were guilty of 
the attempt to poison the troops and attack us by surprise. It 
was hard to disbelieve his guilt. 

There were no means possible of communication v/ith Abdullah. 
In case of necessity, there Avas only one move ; this was to march 
to the Victoria Isile, and form an alliance with Rionga, the old 
enemy of Kamrasi's family, whom I had ahvays refused to attack. 
I was sure that he must have heard of my refusal to ally myself 
with Kabba Eega against him : thus he would be favourable to 
the government. 

I resolved that, if hostilities should continue, I would proclaim 
Eionga representative of the government, as vassal-chief of 
Unyoro, in the room of Kabba Eega, deposed. 

Eionga vfould send a letter to warn Major Abdullah at Fatiko : 
but how was I to convey my baggage and ammunition from 
Masindi to Foweera, without a single carrier, or even a guide] 

It was the height of the rainy season, and the grass was about 
nine or ten feet high, throughout a country of dense and tangled 
forest. 

I had no interpreter of my own ; Umbogo was Kabba Eega's 
slave, and although I fancied that he was fond of us, I had no 
faith in any one of these detestable people. This want of confi- 
dence was keenly felt at a time when I required an interpreter in 
whom I could absolutely trust. I was obliged to confide my plan 
to Umbogo, as I wished him to find some man among the natives 
Avho would take a message to Eionga. 

I knew that many people hated Kabba Eega. Umbogo had 
frequently assured me that T\Iasliudi, which was only two days 
distant from Masindi, to the south-east, had always been 
Eionga's stronghold ; and that the natives of that district would 
rise in favour of their chief, should any reverse befall Kabba 
Eega. 

The news of the defeat of his army, and the complete destruc- 
tion of his capital, would run tlu'ough the country like wild-fire. 
It was well knov/n that Eionga had spies, who were disguised as 



CHAP. XXI.] COMMUNICATION WITH RIONGA. 



369 



friends, even at tlie court of KaLba Rega ; these agents sent him 
information of all that occurred. 

If Umbogo could communicate with one of these people, I 
might send off to Rionga, and beg him to send 300 men to 
Fatiko, with a letter from myself to Major Abdullah. Rionga's 
people would transport the effects instead of Rabba Rega's car- 
riers, who would be seized and held as hostages. This would 
save Abdullah from the intended treachery, if it were done at 
once ; but there was not a moment to lose. 

Already fifteen days had elapsed since my party with the post 
had started, and by this time they should be near Fatiko, ^ unless 
they had been delayed upon the road, as was usual in Unyoro. 

If I could depend upon Rionga, he would at once save Abdul- 
lah's party, and he would send a large force to communicate with 
me at Masindi. 

Had I provisions, I could have held my now fortified position 
against a whole Avorld of niggers ; but vdth only a hundred men, 
I should be unable to forage in this country of high grass, and at 
the same time defend the station. 

All de2:)ended upon the possibility of my communication with 
Rionga. 

Umbogo declared that if I would only march to Mashudi, the 
natives would rise in his favour and join me. 

I told him that if this were true, he could surely find some 
person who would run to Mashudi, and raise the malcontents, 
who would at once carry my message to Rionga. 

Umbogo promised to do his best : at the same time he expressed 
an opinion that Rionga would not wait long in inaction, but that 
he would invade Kabba Rega directly that he should hear of the 
war. From my experience of natives^ I did not share his opinion. 

As Kittakara had apologized for the attack to Colonel Abd-el- 
Kader, and a truce had been arranged, a great number of natives 
spread themselves over the ruins of the town, to search for the 
iron molotes, which are generally concealed in the earth, beneath 
the floor of the huts. The natives were all prodding the smok- 
ing ground with the iron-tipped butt- ends of their lances to 
discover the treasures. 

Umbogo now Avent among them with his guard, and conversed 
upon the cause of the late attack. 

In the evening, Umbogo declared that he was not quite cer- 
tain of the truth ; he evidently suspected the sincerity of Kabba 

^ At that time they had already been treacherously attacked. 

B B 



370 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



Kega. It was quite impossible to procure any messenger at 
present that could be trusted with a message to Eionga. 

The memorable 8th of J une happened to be my birthday. It 
had been the day of death to my lamented follower, Monsoor ; 
but we had well avenged him. 

Umbogo reported that the natives had given him the names of 
nine m^tongales (chiefs) killed in the action, together with a 
large number of common people. A great many were still miss- 
ing : these were probably lying in the high grass which had been 
raked by the hot fire of the sniders. Vultures were collected in 
immense numbers over many spots in this dense covert, which 
denoted the places where the " missing " had fallen. 

I ordered the troops to abandon their undefended camp, and to 
sleep within the fort that night. 

The morning of the 9 th of June arrived — the night had passed 
in perfect quiet. 

My troops set to work with their sharp sword-bayonets, swords, 
knives, &c., to cut down all the high grass in the neighbourhood, 
so as to throw open the view, and prevent the enemy from attack- 
ing us by another surprise. They worked for many hours, and 
soon found a number of the missing, who were lying dead. Five 
bodies were discovered close together, as though they had been 
killed by a shell. This was in a spot where the " Forty Thieves " 
had been at work. 

One unfortunate creature was found in the high grass with a 
smashed leg. He had been lying, thirsty and in pain, for about 
thirty hours in the same spot. My men gave him water and food, 
and his friends came and took him away. The Avounded man 
seemed very grateful, and he told my soldiers that they were 
"better men than the Unyoros, who would certainly murder a 
wounded enemy instead of giving him food and water.'' 

I had told Umbogo to make inquiries as to the safety of little 
Cherri-Merri. The boy was mdiarmed, as lie had been taken 
away before the fight. 

It was now proved that the cows had also been removed dur- 
ing the night previous to the attack, as I had suspected. 

During the day, vast number of people were collected at a 
largo village, situated on a knoll, about 700 yards from our station 
in a direct line. This place, we were informed, was now occupied 
by Kabba liega. The knoll was about eighty feet lower than 
our high position; therefore, as we had roughly cut down the 
grass, we looked directly upon the village. 

We lost no time in erecting tlic Inrge astronomical telescope 



OHAP. XXL] KABBA REGA BEGS FOR PEACE. 



371 



upon its stand. This was placed upon the flat gravel approach 
in front of the government divan, and through the powerful glass 
we could distinguish each feature, and the expression of every 
individual countenance of the crowd within the village. 

During the day, messengers arrived from Kabba E^ga with an 
official explanation of the misunderstanding. They declared that 
it was entirely the fault of Matonse, who would be soon captured; 
that Kabba liega desired them to express his deep regret; " Was 
he not my son 1 Did he not depend upon the protection of his 
father? " He only begged for peace. The natives had been killed 
in great numbers ; therefore " if we had lost a few soldiers, the 
Unyoro had lost many — so the affair was settled." 

I told them that nothing could ever compensate for the loss of 
Monsoor, who had been so treacherously killed ; at the same time, 
if Kabba Rega could prove that the guilt really lay with Matons^, 
the simple plan would be to deliver him up to me. 

I recalled to their recollection how I had passed ten months in 
Unyoro in the reign of Kanu'asi, at which time I had only an 
escort of thirteen men^ and no misunderstanding had ever 
occurred. I explained that the fault was not on my side. An 
attempt had been made to poison us collectively ; we had then 
been surprised by a thoroughly organized attack, at a time when 
the troops were supposed to have been disabled by the poison. 

Kabba Rega must clear his character. If he were innocent, I 
should be only too happy. 

The matongale, or sheik, who was the principal messenger, 
assured me that Kabba Rega was quite in despair, and that he 
had given orders for provisions and a large quantity of ivory to 
be collected, which would be sent to us on the day following, in 
charge of Rahonka and Kittakara. 

The want of provisions was sorely felt ; fortunately, as our 
cows had been dying daily, the troops had some sweet potatoes 
that had been purchased in exchange for flesh. These would last 
for a few days. 

A short time before the attack, I had promised to send Kabba 
Rega a porcelain cache-pot. I therefore took the opportunity of 
reminding the sheik of my promise, and I begged him to deliver 
the piece of china to Kabba Rega as a proof of my peaceful 
intentions, should he really be innocent of the treachery. 

The handsome present was wrapped up in red Turkey cloth, 
and the messengers departed. 

I watched them through the telescope, and, upon their arrival 
at the village below uS; I distinctly witnessed, not only their 

B B 2 



372 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XXI. 



reception by the expectant crowd, but the cache-2')ot was unpacked 
and held at arm's length above the head, to be exhibited to the 
admiring people. 

This looked well. j\Iy officers began to believe .n peace ; and, 
although I still had strong suspicions, I hoped that the signal 
defeat which Kabba Rega's army had sustained had so far cowed 
them as to induce a termination of hostilities, that would enable 
me to communicate with Major Abdullah. 

The luggage from the government divan had all been carried 
to the fort. This was now returned to our original quarters ; my 
wife and her black maids were working hard at rearranging the 
rooms. 

The night passed quietly. 

On 10th of June a matong^ile and several natives arrived from 
Kabba Eega, with a most polite message and friendly assurances, 
accompanied by a present of two beautiful white cows. 

The messengers corroborated the statement of the preceding 
day, that large quantities of provisions were being prepared for 
us, together with twenty elephants' tusks, which were to be 
delivered as a peace-offering by Eahoiika and IvittakSra in 
person. 

Affairs looked brighter. It was my best policy to secure x^eace 
if possible. 

I determined to send Kabba Rega, in return for his present of 
cows, the large Geneva musical box, with drums and bells, which 
he had always desu-ed. 

No one knew how to wind it up ; and it was necessary that 
some person should accomjDany it with the native messengers. 

The clerk of the detachment, Ramadan, who has already been 
mentioned as a favourite ^\ith. the natives, and a good linguist, 
at once volunteered to be the bearer of the present. Since the 
battle of Masindi, Ramadan had been in frequent personal com- 
munication with the natives, and he assured me that there was a 
general desire for j^eaceful relations. He was supposed to be a 
favourite of Kabba Rega's, and it was therefore arranged that he 
should accompany the musical box, which was a good load for a 
fast-travelling native. 

Hafiz, the farrier, whose occupation was nearly gone by the 
death of all the horses but two, volunteered to accompany 
Ramadan. I ordered them to go unarmed, as their peaceful 
mission Avould be at once understood ; this fact would establish 
confidence among the natives. 

It was about 3 p.m. when they started, and we watched their 



CHAP. XXI. i 



MUSICAL BOX DESPATCHED. 



373 



arrival in the village with the telescope, where they appeared to 
be well received. 

In the evening they both returned with the musical box, 
accompanied by the sheik who was to be their guide, as Kabba 
Eega had retired to a town at which he had a residence, about 
half a day's march distant. It was arranged that they should 
start on the following morning. 

On the 11th June, Eamadan and Hafiz, together with the 
musical box, started, and we watched their reception at the 
village with the telescope. I had released Umbogo, whom I had 
sent to Kabba Eega to explain all that he had seen of the out- 
break, as he was one of those that had been poisoned by the 
plaintain cider. Umbogo promised to return as soon as possible. 
The dragoman, Abou Kooka, remained with us in the place of 
Umbogo. This was a sullen-looking brute who had been a slave 
stolen from the Madi tribe. 

I must now take an extract verbatim from my journal, that 
was Avritten on the day of the incident. Any warm expressions 
in this extract must be excused as a natural consequence, for 
which I trust due allowance will be granted : — 

" I walked rouild the burnt town of Masindi, accompanied by 
Julian (Lieutenant Baker), Abd-el-Kader, and two guards of 
*The Forty.' Neither Abd-el-Kader nor I carried guns, as I 
wished to establish confidence among the natives Avho were 
searching among the ashes for molotes. 

" I sent for the dragoman, Abou Kooka, and conversed Avith 
the natives, assuring them of peace, and that I had no ill-will 
against Kabba Eega, if Matonse was the cause of the outbreak. 
At the same time, I told them to bring provisions for sale. 

" They seemed very shy, and replied that ' all would be right 
when the messengers should arrive from Kabba Eega. One by 
one they went away, until only two were left. Julian gave his 
gun to one of the guards. 

" The two natives were standing on the edge of the high grass, 
close to the ashes of the town, and they appeared more confident, 
as they conversed with us at about twelve yards' distance. 

" Presently they said they would come close to us, were it 
not for their fear of the two sentries with their rifles, who were 
about forty yards in our rear. 

" I turned round to order the sentries to retire a little. The 
instant that my back was turned, one of the treacherous brutes 
hurled his spear at me, which struck quivering in the earth at 
my feet ! At the same moment they bolted into the high grass, 



374 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



accomjxniied hy our dragoman, Ahou Kooha, and disappeared at 
once like fisli in Tvater ! 

" The treachery of the negro is beyond belief ; he has not a 
moral hnman instinct, and is below the brute. How is it possible 
to improve such abject animals % They are not worth the trouble, 
and they are only fit for slaves, to which position their race 
appears to have been condemned. 

' I believe I have wasted my time and energy, and have use- 
lessly encountered difficulties, and made enemies by my attempt 
to suppress the slave trade, and thus improve the condition of 
the natives. 

*'It is now 4.40 p.m., and I am anxious about Eamadan and 
Hafiz, who have not returned. 

" ]\Iy men have been on half rations since the 8th inst., and 
we have supplies only for to-morrow, after which we shall 
be obliged to forage, unless Kabba Eega sends the promised 
provisions. 

" It is impossible to believe one word in this accursed country. 
At the same time that Kabba Eega declares peace and good- will, 
he may be planning a surprise. I do not think, however, that 
his people will be in a hurry to fight after the lesson they received 
on the 8th inst. 

" Hs'evertheless, fighting is dangerous work in this country of 
high grass, where troops cannot see to manoeuvre, and where the 
ground is everywhere favourable for native ambuscades." 

When I returned to the divan with the spear that had so 
narrowly missed me, through the cowardice of the assailant (who 
should have made sure of me, had he not been nervous), my wife 
was not cheered by the little incident. She had had the same 
experience as myself in African natures, and she immediately 
declared against the pretended sincerity of Kabba Eega. 

I had serious misgivings, i^othing can happen iu 'Unyoro 
without the order of the king. The superstitious veneration for 
the possessor of the magic throne produces a profound obedience. 

On the other hand, this attempt at murder might have been 
only the revenge of an individual who had 2~»erhaps lost his house 
and property in the conflagration of Masindi. 

The evening arrived without tidings of either Eamadan or 
Umbogo. I was now -x^uthout an interpreter. 

The troops, and their wives and effects, occujiied the fort, and 
the officers' quarters and camp had been abandoned. 

It was about 8 r.M.,and dinner being over, I was smoking my 
pipe in the divan, conversing with my wife ano^ Lieutenant 



CHAP. XXI.] 



NIGHT INCENDIARISM. 



375 



Baker upon the situation of afMrs, when a sudden bright glare 
attracted my attention. 

An officer immediately reported that the abandoned quarters 
were in a blaze of fire ! 

I Avas of course ready in an instant, and armed, and accom- 
panied by my wife and Mr. Baker, I really enjoyed the beauty 
of the scene in that moment of anxiety. 

Without the slightest noise, or even an audible whisper, the 
troops Avere all in position, kneeling on the ground in open order 
around the fort and the divan, keeping the most viligant Avatcli 
for the appearance of an enemy. The flames from the camp rose 
about seventy feet high. There Avas not a breath of air ; thus 
the fire danced and leapt up to its extreme height, and illumined 
the neighbourhood for a great distance. 

Not an enemy Avas to be seen. The soldiers Avere like statues, 
and there was no sound except the roaring of flames. 

Suddenly loud yells broke out from a distance of about 200 
yards from the farthest side of the fort, as though from a con- 
siderable body of men. JNot a soldier stirred or spoke. 

I had cleared the grass around the fort and station, therefore it 
was impossible to approach us unobserved. 

The natives must have crept up stealthily, and fired the 
abandoned camp in the expectation that the troops Avould have 
rushed doAvn to extinguish the flames, and thus the fort and the 
divan would have been at the mercy of an attack from the 
dark side. 

I immediately sent a strong patrol around the station, but not 
a soul Avas visible. The attempt had failed. 

Once more the luggage, Avith beds, boxes, &c., Avas transported 
from the divan to the fort. 

The night passed quietly. On 1 2 th June, I Avatclied the 
natives Avith the telescope, and I observed that many of the 
croAvd Avere gesticulating in an excited manner. 

I was almost convinced that Ave Avere again subjected to the 
foulest treachery, and I was extremely anxious about Ramadan 
and Hafiz. I could hardly believe it possible that these poor 
men, unarmed, and carrying a valuable present, Avould be cruelly 
murdered. 

The day passed in hope and expectation of their return. Late 
in the evening, the act of incendiarism of the preceding night 
was renewed, and the deserted house of Colonel Abd-el-Kader 
was in a bright blaze Avithout a native being visible. 

1^0 yells Avere heard, nor any other sound. The troops 



376 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



turned out with their usual quiet disciiDline, hut not a shot was 
fired. 

The 13th June arrived. Still there were no tidings of either 
Unibogo, Eauiadan, or Hafiz. I now felt convinced that the 
young villain, Kabha Eega, had played me false, and that he was 
only gaining time to collect and organize the whole force of 
CJnyoro to attack us, and to line the path to the river with 
ambuscades. 

It is impossible to this day to say whether Umbogo was true 
or false. I never saw him again ; and the unfortunate Kamadan 
and Hafiz were Avantonly murdered. 

At about 10 A.M., 13th June, we vrere let into the secret of 
Kabba Eega's villainy. A sudden rush of natives Avas made 
upon the cattle, which were grazing within sixty yards of the 
fort ! Poisoned arrows were shot, and a general attack was made 
upon the station. Guns fired; the bullets whistled over our 
heads, and I thought I recognized the crack of our lost sniders 
(those of jNIonsoor and Ferritch), that were employed against us. 

The curtain had now risen. When the actual lighting arrived, 
there was some little relaxation from the intense anxiety of mind 
that I had suffered for some days. 

I at once ordered the men into line, and the bugles and drums 
sounded the charge with the bayonet. 

The gallant " Forty Thieves " led the way, with drums beating 
and a hearty cheer, and dashed through the ruins of the town 
and straight into the high grass on the other side, from which 
the cowardly enemy fled like hares. 

On our return to the station, I at once ordered Colonel Abd- 
el-Kader to take eighty men and some blue lights, and to 
destroy every village in the neighbourhood. The attack was 
made on the instant. The large village, about 700 yards dis- 
tant, which I had raked Avith the fire of a few sniders, while 
Abd-el-Kader descended the slope to the attack, was soon a 
mass of rolling flames. In an hour's time volumes of smoke 
Avere rising in A'arious directions. 

My active and gallant colonel returned, having driven the 
enemy from every position, and utterly destroyed the neighbour- 
hood. 

I had made up my mind. There could be no longer any 
doubt of the diabolical treachery of Kabba Eega. He had only 
endeavoured to gain time by specious assurances of good-AAdll, 
combined Avith presents, in order to organize the AA^hole country 
against us. The natives Avho shot arrows must have come from 



CHAP. XXI.] 



THE HIDDEN STORE. 



377 



Magungo, as none of the other districts were armed with bov/s. 
The arrows that had been shot at us, which niy men had col- 
lected, were thickly poisoned with a hard gummy matter. 

It was now rendered certain that a snare had been laid for 
the massacre of Major Abdullah's party. 

Kabba Rega had no doubt ordered the various routes towards 
Rionga's province to be ambuscaded. 

I determined at once to push straight for the camp at Foweera 
on the Victoria ISTile, as Eionga's island was about fifteen miles 
from that point. 

Among the men of the "Forty Thieves," there was a soldier 
named Abdullah, who had an extraordinary instinct for finding 
,his way. This man never forgot a path if he had ever travelled 
upon the same route. 

I also depended upon my Baris and Molodi ; although they 
had not long experience of the path by which we had arrived 
from Foweera with the cattle, they were clever as guides. 

Unfortunately, the country had changed terribly by the 
immense growth of the grass and tangled creepers. 

I felt sure that the route would be occupied by the enemy 
throughout the whole distance, and that we should have to fight 
every mile of the path at a grave disadvantage. 

The question of a supply of food was vital. The men had 
mostly exhausted their provisions. 

At this critical moment, when every man of the expedition 
felt the fatal truth, my wife confided her secret, that she had 
hitherto concealed, lest the knowledge of a hidden store should 
have made the men extravagant. She now informed them that 
in past days of plenty, when flour had been abundant, she had, 
from time to time, secreted a quantity, and she had now six 
large iron boxes fidl (about twelve bushels). This private store 
she had laid by in the event of some sudden emergency. 

" God shall give her a long life ! " exclaimed both ofiicers and 
men. We had now enough flour for the march of seven days to 
Foweera, at which place there were regular forests of plantains. 

My herd of cattle had been reduced to seventy, and I much 
doubted the possibility of driving them in a high grass country, 
as they ^vould scatter and make a stampede should we be 
attacked ; they would be scared by the guns. 

I mustered my force and spoke to my men, to whom I ex- 
plained their exact position, and my plan of action. 

I should immediately divide among them, as presents, all the 
cotton stuffs that belonged to the expedition. 



378 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXI. 



Each man would carry three pounds of heads in his knapsack, 
one-third of which should suhsequently belong to him. 

The line of marcli would be thus arranged — a Bari, who pro- 
fessed to know the path, would lead the advance-guard of fifteen 
sniders, commanded hy Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, sup- 
ported by myself with ten sniders in charge of the ammuuition, 
accompanied by Lieutenant Baker, my wife, and two servants, 
carrying double breechloading elephant rifles. The rear-guard 
would consist of fifteen sniders. The few remaining sniders 
would be distributed along the luie. 

Neither the advance nor rear-guard would carry any loads 
beyond their knapsacks and a small bag of flour. Five of the 
sniders with me would also be exempted from carrying loads ; 
but every other soldier, and every woman . and bo}'', woidd carry 
either one of the metal boxes or some other package. 

I explained to the men that they would be attacked through- 
out the route at a great disadvantage, but that success would 
depend upon the strict observance of orders for the march 
combined with the utmost coolness. 

Each man was to keep just near enough to be able to touch 
with his outstretched hand the knapsack of the man before 
him, and upon no account to widen this distance, but to keep 
the line intact. Should it be broken by the sudden rush of the 
enemy, we should at once be lost. 

Should the attack be made simultaneously on both sides, al- 
ternate files would face to right and left, place their loads upon 
the ground, and fire low down in the grass, as the natives alwoys 
crouched after throwing a spear from covert. 

A bugler would accompany the colonel commanding the ad- 
vance-guard, in addition to buglers v/ith myself and the rear- 
guard ; thus we should be able to communicate along the lino, 
which would be concealed from view by the high grass. 

On arrival at water, and in crossing either swamps or streams, 
no man or woman was to stop to drink unless the bugle of the 
advance-guard sounded halt. 

Xo woman woidd be allowed to speak during the march, as 
profound silence must be observed. 

The officers and men received their instructions, merely de- 
claring that wherever I should lead them, they would follow 
and obey. 

I at once divided the eflects that could be carried, into the 
requisite number of loads, which were carefully packed in metal 
boxes by my wife and her black maids. It was hard and 



CHAP. XXII.] COMMENCEMENT OP RETREAT. 



379 



anxious Avork. Tho strongest men were selected to carry tlie 
"boxes of snider cartridges, whicli weighed 64 lbs. each. 

All tlie rest of the baggage I arranged in piles, and dis- 
tributed in the government divan and the various houses. I 
spread my large tent over the luggage in the divan, and poured 
over it a quantity of nitrous ether, spirits of wine, lamp-oil, 
spirits of turpentine, and all the contents of the large medicine- 
chest. 

I filled up my small chest, and took a good roll of adhesive 
plaster, a number of bandages, and a packet of lint. 

UjDon the tent-cloth, rendered highly inflammable by tho 
saturation of spirits and oil, I laid about sixty rockets. 

My two horses and three donkeys would be loaded witli 
baggage. 

I gave orders for the marcli early on the following morning. 
The rear-guard was to set fire to the station ; this was the sad 
result of our industry and labour in a land of detestable savages. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

THE MARCH TO RIONQA. 

On the morning of the 14th of June, 1872, at 9.30, the ad- 
vance-guard filed along the gravel path, and halted at the 
extremity of the station at Masindi. The line was complete, 
according to the orders for the march. Xot a word was spoken. 

A light, drizzling rain fell, and the sky was a dull grey. 

I looked back, and wailed for the destruction of my favourite 
station. In our little house we had left pictures of my own 
children, and everything that was not absolutely necessary to 
our existence. Even the Queen and the Princess of Wales 
were to perish in the conflagration, together with much that 
was parted with in this moment of exigency. 

The smoke now curled in thick, white folds from the govern- 
ment divan and our own private house. 

Lieutenant Baker's new house was ignited. One by one every 
hut was fired. The rear-guard, having done their duty, closed 
up in the line of march. 



330 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXII. 



I did not give the word " Forward ! " until tlie flames had 
shot up high in the air, and the station was in the possession of 
the fire. At this moment a loud report announced that all the 
rockets had exploded. The advance-guard moved forward, and 
the march commenced. 

We soon entered the high grass, which was reeking with the 
light rain, and we were wet through in an instant. 

My Avife was walking close behind me with a quantity of 
spare ammunition for the " Dutchman " in her breast. She had 
a Colt's revolver in her belt. Lieutenant Baker was heavily 
loaded, as he carried a Purdy rifle slung across his back, together 
with a larqe bag of ammunition, while he held a double breech- 
loader smooth-bore in his hand, witli a bag of heavy buckshot 
cartridges upon his shoulder. 

Suleiman and IMohammed Haroon (our servants) were close 
by with my two breecliloading ^Xo. 8 elephant rifles. These 
carried picrate of potash shells that were immensely powerful. 
Very little would have been left of the body of a man had one 
of such shells struck him in tlie chest. 

The cattle began to cause much trouble as soon as the march 
commenced, and we slowly descended the knoll upon which the 
station stood, and in single file entered the extremely narrow 
path which led down to a small swamp, 

Crossmg the swamp, through deep mud, we arrived on firm 
ground, and continued to march slowly, on account of the cattle. 
I felt sure they would have to be abandoned. The cows strayed 
to the right and left, and Morgian the Bari, and Abdullah Djoor 
the cook, who were the drovers, were rushing about the grass in 
pursuit of refractory animals, that would shortly end ia being 
speared by the enemy. 

We thus marched for about a mile before a hostile sound was 
heard. AYe then distinguished the tumultuous voices of the 
natives in the rear, who had been attracted to the station by the 
general conflagration. 

The slow march continued, through grass about eight feet 
high, and occasional forest. The rain now descended steadily, 
and I feared that the old nuizzle-loading muskets would miss fire. 

The sound of drums and horns was now heard throughout the 
country, as the alarm spread rapidly from village to village. We 
could hear the shouts of natives, and drums that were now 
sounding in the forest upon a hill on our right. These people 
were evidently in possession of a path unknown to us, which 
ran parallel to our route. 



CHAP. XXII.] 



HOWARTI IS SPEARED. 



381 



For seven hours the march continued with such frequent 
halts, owing to the straying of the cattle, that we had only 
progressed the short distance of ten miles, when, at 4.40 p.m., wo 
entered the valley of Jon Joke. "We saw before us the hill 
covered with plantain groves where we had slept when upon the 
march to Masindi. 

The grass was very high, and the path hardly a foot wide, 
only resembling a sheep run. Suddenly the advance-guard 
opened a hot fire, and the bugle sounded halt ! " 

A few paces in front of me, my favourite sailor and fisherman, 
Howarti, was in the line, carrying a metal box upon his head. 
In addition to his musket, which was slung across his shoulders, 
I had given him one of my double breechloading pistols, which 
he carried in his belt. 

The word was suddenly passed that ^' Howarti was speared ! " 

Lances now flew across the path, and the line opened fire into 
the grass upon our right, according to orders. 

I immediately went up to Howarti. I found him sitting 
upon the ground by the side of his box, in the act of reloading 
his pistol with a Boxer cartridge. A lance had struck him in 
the fleshy part of the right arm, just below the point of junction 
with the shoulder, and, passing through his body, it had pro- 
truded from his stomach. Upon feeling the wound, Howarti 
had dropped his load, and drawing his pistol, he shot the native 
dead, as he leapt from his ambush to recover the lance which 
was sticking in the poor fellow's body. 

Here was another of my best men sacrificed. Howarti had 
always been a true, good man, and he had just exhibited his cool 
courage. He had himself pulled the spear from his body. 

My wife had followed me immediately upon hearing that 
Howarti was injured. He had reloaded his pistol, but in reply 
to my question whether he could sit upon a donkey, he fainted. 
I roughly bandaged him for the present moment, and we laid 
him upon an angareb (stretcher-bedstead), but the men were so 
heavily laden that it was difficult to find supporters. Lieutenant 
Baker kindly took one end upon his shoulder, and with the 
assistance of the guard, we carried him forward. The bugle 
sounded the "advance." 

Again the lances flew across the path, but a few shots with 
the sniders cleared the way, and leaving the narrow route, we 
broke our way through the tangled grass, and ascended the slope 
to the plantain forest. Here, thank goodness, there was no 
grass. The bugle sounded " halt " in the middle of the plantains. 



382 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. xxir. 



Sentries having been posted, every man was now employed in 
felling the tall plantain trees, and in arranging them to form a 
wall around the camp. 

One blow of a sharp, heavy sabre will cut through the stem, 
thus in a short time, as we all worked, a clearing of about an acre 
w^as made, and by sunset we had piled them so as to form a 
tolerable protection from lances. 

Throughout the day it had never ceased raining, thus every 
one was soaking and miserable. Of course we had no tent, but 
some invaluable mackintosh camp sheets. I had examined 
HoAvarti's wounds, which I knew were mortal. The air as he 
breathed was rattling through the gash in his stomach. I washed 
and bandaged him carefully, and gave him a dose of brandy and 
laudanum. 

!N"o one had a drop of water to drink, neither did any one 
know the direction of the well ; but, as all were cold and wet 
through, no person suffered from thirst. Fortunately, we had 
matches in a small silver case that had resisted the damp ; and 
after some difficulty and delay, fires were blazing through the 
little bivouac, and the soldiers and women were crouching round 
them. 

We were comfortable that night, as we had beds to lie upon ; 
but I felt sure it would be for the last time, as it would be 
necessary to destroy much luggage, the men beiug too heavily 
laden. 

AH. was at length still ; the soldiers, who were tired, went to 
sleep, with the exception of the sentries, who were well on the 
alert. 

As I lay on my bed, I thought of the morrow. I knew wo 
should have a trying time, as the whole country would now be 
thoroughly organized against us. Oar start from Masindi had 
taken them by surprise — thus we had not met with much 
resistance ; but to-morrow would be a fighting day, and I made 
up my mind to leave the cattle to themselves, as it would bo 
simply impossible to drive them. 

The night passed without an attack. 

On the following morning, 15th June, poor Ilowarti was 
evidently about to die, but the i^lucky fellow faintly said that he 
could ride a donkey if assisted. It was impossible to carry him 
as the path was too narrow for four people to walk beneath a 
stretcher. He was jjlaced upon a donkey, and supported witli 
dilficulty by a man at his side. 

I was obliged to pile upon the fire a number of things that 



OHAP. XXII.] 



A GENERAL ATTACK. 



383 



we could not carry, including the large oaken stand of the 
astronomical telescope. 

It was 7.30 A.M. before we started. 

The troublesome cattle at once began to stray, and I imme- 
diately ordered them to be abandoned. I felt certain that in the 
event of a general attack they would have created great confusion, 
by probably rushing down the line and overturning the men. 

It was the greatest relief to be rid of the animals : thus we 
marched on merrily at about two and a half miles an hour, 
through the usual narrow path amidst gigantic grass (now about 
nine feet high) and thick forest. 

In about an hour and a half we arrived at a descent, towards 
a bottom in which there was a broad, open swamp, with a stream 
running through the centre. 

The advance-guard was not more than a hundred yards from 
the bottom, and the line was descending the hill in close order, 
when a sudden uproar broke out, as though all the demons of 
hell were let loose. Yells, screams, drums, horns, whistles from 
many thousand concealed enemies, for an instant startled; the 
troops ! A tremendous rush in the grass gave notice of a 
general attack from an immensely powerful ambuscade. The 
officers did their duty. 

Every load was upon the ground, and in a moment alternate 
files were facing to the right and left, kneeling just as the lances 
began to fly across the path. The bugles rang out ''fire," and 
the fight commenced on our side. 

I saw several lances pass within an inch or two of my wife's 
head ; luckily we were kneeling on one knee. The file-firing 
was extremely good, and the sniders rattled without intermission. 
The grass was so dense, that simple buck-shot would be reduced 
to a very limited range, although excellent at close quarters. The 
servants quickly handed the elephant breechloaders, and a double 
shot to the right and left was followed by the loud explosion of 
the picrate of potash shells against some unseen objects, either 
men or trees. 

A quick repetition of the picrate shells seemed to aff'ect the 
spirit of the attack. I imagine that the extremely loud explosion 
of the shells in the midst, and perhaps also in the rear of the 
enemy, led them to suppose that they were attacked from behind. 

It is difficult to say how long the attack continued, but a vast 
amount of ammunition was expended before the lances ceased to 
fly through the line, and the drums and horns were at length 
heard at a greater distance in the rear. The bugle at once 



3S4 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XXII. 



sounded the advance," and I marched the men forward, crossing 
the stream at the bottom, and gained the open, v/hcre we found 
ourselves in a kind of swampy field of about ten acres. "Ha ! " 
exclaimed many of the soldiers, " if we could only get them on 
a clear space like this." 

The men were mustered. Poor Howarti was dead, and they 
had left him in the grass by the roadside, as it was impossible to 
transport him. 

The rear-guard had been hotly pressed, and the natives had 
rushed upon the path close to the sniders, which had punished 
them severely. Had we depended upon muzzle-loading muskets, 
the party would have been quickly destroyed ; the sharp fire of 
the sniders at close quarters must have caused immense loss at 
the first onset. 

I now determined to lighten the loads considerably. It was 
difficult to carry the angarebs, as the legs caught in the high 
grass. I spoke a few words to my men, who declared that they 
Avere not afraid of the natives if they were not so heavily laden. 

We collected wood and made a fire, upon which I ordered 
everything to be burnt that was really cumbersome. The bed- 
steads were broken up ; a case of good French cognac was com- 
mitted to the flames ; Lieutenant Baker's naval uniform, with 
box, &c. ; the cocked hat frizzled up on the top of the bonfire. 
The men were provided with raw hides, upon which they slept 
at night ; these were now wet through and cumbersome : I 
therefore ordered them to be thrown into the high grass and 
abandoned. 

The brandy bottles burst upon the fire. A sergeant of the 
" Forty Thieves," named Fadlullah, had been attending to the 
hea^ of burning materials, and I saw him stoop over the flames, 
as though intending to save one of the liquor bottles for himself. 
At this moment several burst and saturated his loose cotton 
trousers with blazing spirits. The man vainly endeavoured to 
extinguish the fiie, and he danced wildly about, until I seized 
and threw him down in the swamp, and quickly drew the Avet 
green grass over him and subdued the flames. He was severely 
burnt about the legs, from which the skin slipped ofi" in largo 
flakes. 

I now had to doctor him, when every man's legs ought to have 
been in the best order. Fortunately I had a little oil (for the 
lamp), and the wounds were quickly dressed and bandaged with 
cotton wool and lint. 

The force was now much relieved, as the loads had been light- 



CHAP. XXII.] 



AMBUSCADE ATTACKS. 



385 



ened. During tlie operation of burning the supplies, the best 
shots of the " Forty Thieves " had been stationed to pick off any 
natives who attempted to spy our movements by ascending the 
lofty trees. 

I now gave the order for the advance, and the march recom- 
menced. In a few minutes we were once more buried in the 
gigantic grass jungle. 

We had hardly entered the covert when the shouts and blow- 
ing of horns and beating of drums once more commenced. This 
was the signal to ambuscades in front that we were moving 
forvvard. 

In the course of an hour's march, the rear bugle had sounded 
''halt " at least half a dozen times, as two of the donkeys were 
weakly, and could not be driven on without diliiculty. 

Again the rear bugle sounded " halt ! " I immediately sent 
the sergeant of the bodyguard, Mohammed-el-Fecl, to shoot the 
donkeys, and to throw their loads into the high grass. Two 
shots announced their end. 

The bugle sounded advance," and we at length travelled 
comfortably. The weather was fine : we rejoiced in the sun, as 
it dried our reeking clothes. 

Suddenly the advance-guard opened fire ! then the rear-guard 
was closed upon by a sudden rush of the eneni}^, and the whole 
line commenced file-firing into the thick covert. 

I ordered the bugler to sound " forward," and cease firing," 
as the men were getting a little wild. 

One of " The Forty," Ali Goboor, had been wounded by a 
lance through the leg, but he managed to limp along. 

We now began to understand the places at whicli we were sure 
to meet an ambuscade. Whenever we descended a slope towards 
a marshy bottom, there was certain to be a large force concealed 
behind the lofty reeds that grew in the swamp. I ordered the 
advance-guard to fire a few shots low down in the reeds when- 
ever they should approfich these places. By this plan we gener- 
ally induced the enemy to throw their spears before we were in 
the midst; in which case we opened a heavy fire into the grass, 
and marched straight forward. 

The ambuscades had been carefully planned. A row of grass 
of perhaps two or three yards in thickness was left standing in 
its natural position along the path; behind this vegetable wall, 
the grass had been either cut down or torn up, so as to afford a 
clear space for the natives to take a good run when throwing 
their lances. They accordingly waited until we should enter the 

c 



38G 



iSMAILIA. 



[chap, xxil 



snare, and tliey calculated tlieir opportunity for making a com- 
bined attack when they considered that our line of march was 
exactly opposite. Of course they could not see us througli tlie 
thick screen of grass any more than we could distinguish 
them. 

We were at an additional disadvantage, as Ave were always ex- 
posed to attacks from fresh enemies; the route vras occupied 
throughout, thus they Avere not cov/ed by the defeats of every 
ambuscade in the rear. 

Considering the great numbers of spears that had fiOAvn like 
flashes of light through the line, it was astonishing that Ave had 
not had more numerous casualties. ScA^eral men had been struck 
on their knapsacks, AAdiich had serA^ed as shields. 

AVg at length came to an exceedingly aAvkAvard place, that I 
felt sure Avould be Avell occupied. Upon our right lay a roAV of 
rocky hills, to Avhich Ave Avere marching parallel. AYe had to 
descend through forest to loAver ground. To reach this it Avas 
necessary to pass between numerous blocks of granite that com- 
pletely commanded the path. Eich block Avas about twenty or 
twenty-fiA^e feet high, and several much exceeded this height. 
The base Avas the usual high grass and forest. 

I ordered the men not to lire unless they should see the enemy, 
and to take a good aim. 

Presently, as Ave descended through tlie pass, the attack com- 
menced. Two spears struck Colonel Abd-el-K;ider, one in the 
fore-arm; the second ripped his tough leatlicr gaiter, and glanced 
off. 

The sniders Avere ready, as the enemy Avere obliged to sho^v 
their heads aboA^e the rocks, and one felloAA'-, avIio Avas exactly 
aboA^e us, either lost his nerve, or received a bullet, Avhicli alloAved 
his lance to come rattling doAvn the rocks as a complete failui^o. 
I ordered the bugler to continue to sound " forward " (Illali Eeh), 
as it Avas advisable to push through this awkward place as riuickly 
as possible. 

JJirectly that Ave Avere out of the pass, I tied u^) Abd-el-Kader's 
arm, and we continued tlie march imtil Ave halted at 2.5 p.5i., in 
a piece of open cultiA'"ated ground, where I determined to bivouac 
for the night. 

I had resolved always to finish the day's journey by one march, 
as it Avoidd afford time for erecting a protection of thorns and 
branches of trees to prevent a sudden night attack. 

Fortunately the Aveather Avas fine. Abd-el-Kader Avas iioav 
faint and Aveak from loss of blood. I attended to his wound, 



CHAP. XXII.] THE SOLDIER DIES GALLANTLY. 



387 



which Wcas an ugly gash, and gave him a good dose of brandy, 
an;l advised him to go to sleep. 

Lieutenant Baker and the other officers assisted in erecting the 
defence of thorns. All the wet clothes were spread out to dry in 
the sun, and everything was got ready for the night. I did not 
care for myself, but I was sorry for the hardship that my wife 
must endure, without a bed or tent. My men cut two forked 
poles, upon which they lashed a horizontal bar, which supported 
a camp-sheet to protect her from rain or dew. A pile of long 
green grass was laid on the ground beneath, upon which Avas 
stretched a mackintosh camp-sheet, and a good thick blanket. 

We had been most fortunate in having only a loss of one killed 
and two wounded since we left Masindi. 

My men had fired away an enormous amount of ammunition 
during the march, as they appeared to become more and more 
nervous as they advanced. Every thick clump of reeds that rose 
a few feet higher than the surrounding grass was supposed to con- 
ceal an enemy, and it was immediately raked by a hot fire from 
the advance-guard. 

On 16th June, the night having passed quietly, we started at 
6.30 A.M., and marched silently. 

There was a curious feeling upon first waking in the morning, 
when we rose and buckled on the ammunition-belts. Every one 
was aware tliat his nerves must be upon the stretch, and that his 
finger must be ready for tlie trigger, from the commencement till 
the end of the march, to act against unseen enemies. 

Upon arrival at a stream in a muddy bottom, we were imme- 
diately attacked by a strong force in ambuscade. Some of the 
enemy exposed themselves boldly, and rushed upon the soldiers 
just in front of the rear-guard. Several were shot by the sniders, 
but one fellow, Avitli unusual pluck, speared a soldier whose mus- 
ket had missed fire, through the chest. This poor fellow, thus 
mortally wounded, grappled with his assailant, and tugging the 
spear from his own wound, ho drove it through the native's 
heart. 

The rear bugle sounded "halt," while the knapsack and car- 
touche-belt were detached from the gallant soldier, whose body 
was left by the side of his enemy. 

We marched until 10.15 a.m., having fought nearly the whole 
way, and expended a frightful amount of ammunition. We had 
now arrived at our old halting-place, Ghorob^ze, twenty-seven 
miles from Masindi. 

My men had become so extravagant of their cartridges that I 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. XXII. 



was forced to interfere. If this nervousness should continue, we 
should be soon left without ammunition, and every soul would 
be massacred. 

I therefore mustered the troops, and examined all their pouches. 
Some of the advance-guard had fired away eighty rounds each, only 
during the morning's march ! 

ISIany had fired fifty rounds ! The muskets had not used so 
many, owing to the greater difficulty of loading, but they also 
had been frightfully extravagant. 

The men had come to the conclusion that the only plan of 
marching in safety through the high grass, which was full of 
unseen enemies, was to constitute themselves into a sort of infer- 
nal machine, that would be perpetually emitting fire and bullets 
on all sides. 

This was all very well with an unlimited supply of ammuni- 
tion, but we had no idea of what might still be in store for us. 
We were now slightly more than fifty miles from Foweera. For- 
tunately, in our journey from the river to Masindi, I had timed 
every march within live minutes, and I had all particulars in my 
note-book; therefore I could guess the position pretty closely 
during the morning's advance. 

Having mustered all the men, I turned out all the ammunition 
from their pouches. The cartridges were counted. 

I examined all the reserve ammunition. 

The total, including that from the men's cartouche-boxes, 
was — 

Cartridges for snider rifles . . . 4,540 

„ „ muskets . . . 4,330 

8,870 

I now addressed the men, and abused them most forcibly, call- 
ing them ''old women," and several other uncomplimentary 
epithets for soldiers. I divided among them forty rounds each, 
and I swore solemnly by their prophet, " that I would not give 
them another cartridge from this spot (Chorobeze) until we 
should reach Major Abdullah's detachment at Fatiko." 

I explained that if any man should fire away his ammunition, 
lie should continue the march with an empty pouch — Wah 
illahi ! 

I gave the most positive command, that in future not a shot 
should be fired without orders, unless spears actually were thrown, 
on which occasions the troops would lire a few shots exactly into 



CHAP. XXII.] 



CAUGHT IN A TRAP. 



389 



the spot from which the weapons had arrived ; but on no account 
was a bullet to be fired at random. 

I dismissed the men v/itli this warning, and set them to work 
to construct a night defence as usual. 

It was a most fortunate peculiarity of the Unyoros that they 
did not attack at night-time. This was a grievous fault upon 
their side. If they had surrounded us every night, they would 
have kept us awake, and not only would have tired the men out, 
but they would have caused a useless expenditure of ammuni- 
tion. 

On 17th of June, we started at 6.15 a.m., with the intention 
of reaching Koki. I recognized several villages, but we passed 
them without halting. We at length arrived at a fine, broad 
route, that was sufficiently wide for a dog-cart. This had evi- 
dently been recently prepared, and there could be no doubt that 
it was arranged as a snare that would lead us into some powerful 
ambuscade. At the same time, the compass showed that the 
broad path led in the right direction. 

I halted the force, and went to the front to examine the road. 
There was no other path. It was therefore incumbent upon us 
to keep to the broad route, although we knew that it must lead 
us to a trap prepared for our destruction. 

It was like walking upon ice that was known to be unsafe. 
We advanced. 

For about half an hour we marched without opposition. This 
was a longer interval than usual to be free from an attack. At 
length we arrived where the broad road suddenly terminated. 
The advance-guard halted. 

We searched for a path, and at length discovered the original 
narrow route a few paces to our left. 

This had been purposely concealed by grass and boughs. 

We had hardly entered this path when we were suddenly 
attacked. A liorsekeeper was wounded by a spear, which passed 
through his leg, behind the knee, and cut the sinew, thus render- 
ing him helpless. He was immediately placed upon a donkey. The 
unfortunate lad who led the horse a few paces before me now 
uttered a Avild shriek, as a spear passed completely through his 
body. The poor boy crept to me on his hands and knees, and 
asked, " Shall I creep into the grass. Pacha ^ — where shall I go 1 " 
He had not another minute to live. 

A spear struck another liorsekeeper on the hip, and the soft 
iron point turned up agamst the bone in a curve like a hsh-hook. 

A sharp fire dispersed the enemy, who retired to a distance, 



390 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHA.P. XXII. 



yelling and blowing tlieir whistles. The wonncled horsekeeper 
could manage to walk forward. 

There is a peculiar bird in the forests of XJnyoro which utters 
a shrill cry, with these notes : — ¦ 



The natives imitate this cry with their whistles of antelope's 
horn. I had noticed that previous to an attack from an ambus- 
cade, we had always heard the call of this bird. 

My Baris declared that the bird warned us of the danger, and 
cried, " Co-co-nie ! Co-co-me !" which in their language means, 
" Look out ! look out ! " 

My soldiers said that tlie bird exclaimed, Shat-mo-koor ! 
Shat-mo-koor ! " which is the order, " Make ready ; " They accord- 
ingly always brought their rifles on full cock when they heard 
the signal. 

There was something puzzling this day respecting the distance. 
According to my calculation, we should have reached Koki. Still 
we marched on through high forest and the interminable grass. 
My wife vf as dreadfully fatigued. The constant marching in wet 
boots, which became filled with sand when crossing the small 
streams and wading through muddy hollows, had made her terri- 
bly foot-sore. She walked on with pain and difficulty. I was 
sure that we had passed the village of Koki, which was sur- 
rounded by much open ground and cultivation; and I now felt 
certain that the broad road, -which had been constructed to mis- 
lead us, had taken us by the rear of Koki, which we had thus 
over-shot. 

We were marching forward in perfect silence, when I heard a 
bird cry " Co-co-me ! Co-co-me " ! 



That instant the spears came among us, and the rifles replied 
as quick as lightning ! 

The bugle of the advance-guard sounded ''halt." I never liked 
to hear that order, as something nuist have gone wrong. 

I immediately walked forward, and found that Lieutenant 





Co - CO - me ! 



Co - CO - ml ! 



CHAP. XXII.] MY GOOD OLD HORSE IS KILLED. 



391 



Mohammed Miistaplia had been wounded. The spear had struck 
him just behind the shoulder-joint of the left arm, and had 
passed over the blade-bone and spine previous to making its exit 
by the right arm. This was a very nasty wound, and he was 
bleeding profusely. I made a couple of pads, and, placing one 
upon each hole, we bandaged him tightly. 

I now went up to my poor old horse, " Zafteer." The unfor- 
tunate animal was carrying a heavy load, and a large hunting- 
spear had struck him just behind the saddle. The weapon was 
so sharp and heavy, and had been thrown with such force, that 
it had penetrated a double blanket, and had not only passed 
clean through the horse's bod}^, but had also cut through a 
blanket-fold upon the other side. 

A large portion of the bowels protruded, and were hanging a 
foot below the horse's belly. The intestines were divided, thus 
death was certain. 

As the old horse could still walk, and did not know its own 
danger, I ordered the advance. I intended to halt at the first 
convenient point. 

In about a quarter of an hour Ave saw increased light in the 
distance, and we presently emerged upon a large open vale sur- 
rounded by forest. This cheerfid space extended over about ten 
acres, in the centre of which was a well of good water, about 
fourteen feet deep, and so wide that a man could descend by 
steps hewn out of the gravel. This Vv^as a grand place for the 
halt. 

My first duty was to remove the load, together with the sad- 
dle, from my good old horse. I returned the bowels, and having 
placed a strong ]Dad over the wounds, I passed the roller round 
his body, and buckled it tight over the pads. 

This operation was hardly completed, when a severe shivering 
fit seized the poor animal, and he fell to the ground to die. 

With great sorrow I placed my pistol to the forehead of the 
faithful old Zafteer, and he died, having carried and laid down 
his load, together with his life, at the end of the day's march. 

I was much distressed at this loss. It seemed that I was to 
lose all my best and most faithful followers — ^the good Monsoor, 
whom to this hour I regret as a brother ; the ever-ready and 
true Howarti ; Ferritch Baggara ; the unfortunate Eamadan, 
besides others who were very valuable ; and now my old horse 
was gone. 

We slept that night by his body, and warmed ourselves by a 
fire that consumed his load — for there was no one to carry it. 



392 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XXII. 



My despatcli-box helped to cook our scanty dinner. We had 
marched sixteen miles. 

My troops had behaved remarkably well. The scolding that 
I had given them had produced a good effect. Yery little am- 
munition had been expended, and the firing had been exceedingly 
steady. 

Although we had not been attacked at night, I never omitted 
the precaution of a defence of strong thorns and branches of trees. 

Had this march through a frightful route of forest and high 
grass been made in the Bari tribe, we should not have had a 
night's rest. 

We started at 6 a.m., with sunrise, on 18th June. The 
weather had been fine since the first day of soaking rain on 
the start from IMasindi : we were thankful for this blessing, as 
there was no shelter for any one. 

It would be fatiguing to narrate the incidents of the continual 
ambuscades. Every day we were attacked, and the enemy was 
repulsed many times. " Co-co-mg ! Co-co-me ! " was now well 
understood by the troops ; and although we had men wounded, 
the enemy invariably got the worst of the encounter. Up to the 
present we had been most fortunate in bringing on all our 
peoj^le, but I was anxious lest some should receive wounds that 
woidd actually incapacitate tliem from marching. Should a man 
be killed outright, how much soever he might be regretted, still 
there was an end of him ; but there was no end to the difficulty 
of transporting Vv^ounded men in our helpless condition, without 
carriers. 

We had rather hot work during this day's march, and four 
soldiers had been wounded by spears. 

]My wife was dreadfully tired, and sometimes the pace was too 
severe for her. At length she was so fatigued that she declared 
she must rest, if only for a few minutes. It was impossible to 
halt in the thick jungle and grass ; therefore, as I had observed 
a large grove of plantains on the crest of the hill before us, I 
gave her my hand to assist in the ascent, and we shortly entered 
the dark forest of bananas, which was, as usual, clear and free 
from grass. 

All the women were glad to rest, as the poor things were 
carrying heavy loads. We halted in the midst of the plantains, 
and ever}^ one sat down, except the numerous sentries whom I 
placed in concealment in various positions. I fully expected 
that natives might be following us, in the hopes of picking up 
the load of some wounded man that had been left behind. 



OHAP. XXII.] HORRIBLE SUPERSTITION. 



393 



Kot a word was spoken, or even whispered. 

My men were very bloodthirsty. They had been atrociously 
treated by the natives, and had suffered much. They longed to 
get their enemies fairly before them, and the " Forty Thieves " 
were now keenly looking out for the approach of the wily 
Unyoros. 

We heard distant voices ; they were coming nearer. A sharp 
clicking of locks might be heard, as the men got ready. 

Ali Sadik was one of my best shots in "The Forty." I now 
saw him taking a steady aim. Saat Choush, who was the 
champion shot of " The Forty," had also raised his rifle, and 
almost immediately several shots were fired, and the troops 
rushed forward ! Two natives had been knocked over, and 
some of the men returned, dragging in a body by the heels. 

I now scoured the immediate neighbourhood, and discovered 
a quantity of dhurra that was just ripened. This was immediately 
gathered as a great prize. 

During this interval, my men had been engaged in a most 
barbarous ceremony, that perfectly disgusted me. 

These superstitious people had an idea, that every bullet they 
might fire would kill an Unyoro, if they could only devour a 
portion of their enemy's liver. 

They had accordingly cut out the liver of the dead man, and 
having divided it among them, they positively liad eaten it — 
raw ! They had then cut the body into pieces with their sword- 
bayonets, and had disposed them upon the limbs of various 
bushes that overhung the path, as a warning to any Unyoros 
who should attempt to follow us. 

I would not have believed that my " Forty Thieves," whom I 
had considered to be nearly civilized, could have committed such 
a barbarity. The truth was, that in the high grass they could 
not see the effect of their shots ; therefore they imagined that the 
horrid rite of eating an enemy's liver would give a fatal direction 
to a random bullet. 

We marched, and having had several encounters with the 
enemy in jungle, if possible worse than before, we halted at 
Kaseega. 

One of my best men, Serroor, had a narrow escape ; a lance 
went through his neck, almost grazing the jugular vein. 

On 19th June, we marched at 6.5 a.m. This was one of the 
worst journeys, as the ravines were numerous, and the forest 
dark and tangled. It Avas difficult for our solitary horse 
(Jamoos) to carry his load, as it became continually hooked in 



394 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXII. 



the hanging loops of the wild vines. We were quickly attacked 
by various ambuscades, in one of which my ^vife suffered the 
loss of a great favourite. This was poor little Jarvali, who Avent 
by the name of the fat boy." Two spears struck the unhappy 
lad at the same moment — one of which pinned both his legs as 
though upon a spit ; the other went through his body. This 
loss comjDietely upset my wife, as the unfortunate Jarvah had 
upon several occasions endeavoured to protect her from danger. 
He was killed only a few paces behind her. 

In one of the ambuscades, just as the enemy had been 
repulsed, Faddul, the strongest man in the "Forty Thieves," 
who was close to me, carrying his knapsack on his back, his rifle 
slung across his shoulders, and a box of 500 snider cartridges 
(G4 lbs.) upon his head, walked up to me during the halt and 
reported himself as badly wounded. 

A spear had struck him obli(|uoly in the posterior, and had 
taken a direction toy\\^crds the groin. The luau was literally 
bathed in blood, which ran from him in such a stream that a 
large pool was formed at his feet as he stood before me. 

The instant that the box of snider ammunition was taken 
from his head, he fell apparently lifeless to the ground. 

I thought that he had bled to death. 

His rifle and knapsack were removed, and I examined his 
pulse and heart. I coidd not feel any movement. All I could 
do was to pour some brandy very slowly down his throat, and 
to leave him on the side of the path as another good man lost to 
the expedition. 

We marched forward, and in about ten minutes we arrived at 
an open field of sweet potatoes. The change from dark jungle 
and dense grasses of giant height to the fresh and clear space 
cannot be understood, unless by those wdio experienced tlie 
difficulties of the march. 

I halted the advance-guard in the centre of the open field, and 
waited for the rear to close up. 

As it arrived, I saw a man staggering forward, supported by 
two soldiers. Upon nearer approach, I recognized my strong 
friend, Faddul, thus risen from the dead ! The brandy had re- 
vived him sufliciently to show some signs of life, and the rear- 
guard had thus brought him along with them. We laid him 
down to rest beneath a tree that grew in the middle of the 
cultivation. 

We were now in a sad difliculty. There were numerous roads, 
or rather very narrow paths, which converged from all quarters 



OHAP. XXII.] 



THE LOST PATH. 



395 



upon this potato ground, l^o one knew the direction. The 
jBaris were completely at fault. The farther the people ex- 
plored the immediate neighbourhood, the more helpless they 
became. 

This was a serious matter. Up to the present time we had 
been most fortunate in keeping to the right path. 

I now called my renowned pathfinder, Abdullah, of " The 
Forty." 

Abdullah made a survey of the surrounding tracks, and then 
returned to me with the news that he had discovered the route. 
This he immediately pointed out. 

A general exclamation of derision from the officers and many 
of the men was the only reward Abdullah received for his im- 
portant discovery, as his path was in quite an opposite direction 
to the route they had anticipated. 

The compass corroborated Abdullah's road, but before I 
adopted it, I asked him why he declared so positively that he 
kncAV the way 1 He replied, that when on the march from 
Foweera, he had observed a peculiarly-shaped tree, upon which 
was fastened a native cojoor, or spell. That tree was on rising 
ground above a ravine, and he could now show me both the 
ravine and the magic tree. 

I accompanied him to the spot, and certainly the tree was 
there, with some pieces of ragged bark-cloth and some grass tied 
to the stem. I had often seen talismans that were fastened to 
the trees, and I suggested to Abdullah that there were many of 
them along the road. He was so confident in accepting every 
responsibility as guide, that I followed him without hesitation, 
and the march continued. The wounded Faddul was supported 
as before. 

In a short time I myself recognized the path as being very 
near to Kisoona, which place we suddenly entered after a march 
of thirty-five minutes from the potato field. The advance-guard 
fired a volley at some natives, who rushed into the grass upon 
our unexpected arrival. 

We were now in open ground, with good native huts for 
shelter, and a large extent of cultivation, where an unlimited 
supply of potatoes could be obtained. 

As the rear-guard closed up, I mustered all officers and men. 
Having spoken a few words of encouragement, and complimented 
them upon their extreme steadiness since I had lectured them at 
Chorobeze, I congratulated them upon having advanced so far, 
under God's protection, through such numberless enemies, with 



396 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. XXII. 



comparatively so little loss. We were now only twenty-one miles 
foom Foweera, and we knew the road. The news of our arrival 
would almost immediately reach Eionga, and I should fortify 
this spot and remain here for some days to allow my wounded 
to recover their strength. During tliis time all hands would be 
employed in preparing potatoes for store, by cutting them in 
slices and drying them in the sun. 

I novv^ ordered the band to strike up with the greatest vigour, 
to show the natives who might bo within hearing, that we were 
in the best of spirits. 

j\Iy oflicers and men were all delighted, and overwhelmed me 
with compliments. I only replied by begging them always to 
trust in God, and to do their duty. 

I immediately started off a party to dig potatoes, while Lieu- 
tenant Baker and myself, with a number of men, slashed down 
with sabres the extensive grove of plantain trees, so as to have a 
perfectly clear space around the camp. 

\\e made a strong defence at Ivisoona, and the rest of several 
days was invigorating to the wounded men, and enabled my 
wife's feet to recover sufficiently to continue the march on the 
23rd June. 

I had arranged that the drums and bugles should sound the 
morning call at 5 a.m. daily, as though in a permanent camp. 
Tills was to assist me in a plan for avoidmg ambuscades on the 
day of marching from Kisoona. 

On the 22nd I gave orders that every man should be ready to 
march punctually at 5 a.m., the instant that the morning call 
should have sounded. 

The natives, hearing the call to which they had been daily 
accustomed, would have no suspicion of our intended departure ; 
therefore they would not have sufficient time to organize and 
man their ambuscades. 

On the morning of the 23rd June we silently evacuated the 
camp in the semi-darkness, the instant that the drums and bugles 
had ceased, and thus obtained an excellent start that saA^ed us 
much trouble. The attacks later in the day were feebler than 
usual, and after a march of fourteen miles we arrived at a well of 
water at 2.5 p.m., at which spot Ave halted for the night. 
During this march we had only one man wounded. 

We Avere now Avithin liionga's countr}--, but I nevertheless 
made a defence of thorns and branches of trees for the night. 

On 24th June Ave started at G.5 xV.m., and after a march of 
seven miles, during Avhich Ave Avere undistiu'bed, Ave arrived at 



CHAP. XXIII.] BUILD A STOCKADE. 3D7 

the old camp of Suleiman's company at Foweera on the Victoria 
Nile, where we had expected to find shelter and good houses. 

Everything had been destroyed by fire ! JSTothing remained 
but blackened ashes. 



CHAPTEE XXIII 

BUILD A STOCKADE AT FOWEETIA. 

My losses from the 8th June to the 24th had been ten killed 
and eleven wounded. Every officer and soldier had thoroughly 
done his duty, having displayed admirable coolness and courage 
upon many trying occasions. JSTone but black troops could have 
endured the march of about eighty miles with heavy weights 
upon their heads, in addition to their usual accoutrements. 

I at once set to work to build a new station, and with the old 
wood that had formed the fence of Suleiman's zareeba, I com- 
menced a defensive arrangement. 

There was very little heavy timber that was adapted for a 
stockade. I therefore formed a protection by sinking deep in 
the ground, at intervals of three feet, two strong posts about 
seven feet above the surface. These upright timbers, standing 
opposite to each other at a distance of about ten inches, were 
filled with long poles laid one over the other horizontally. At 
two corners of the square fort were flanking works of the same 
construction, which would sweep each face of the defence. 




Section of Stockade where no heavy timber is procurable. 



In a few days my men had completed a strong and neat 
stockade around a number of small temporary huts which formed 
our new station. 



3y8 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



Having tliiis lioused my troops, it was necessary to prejDare for 
tlie future. I fully expected that Major Abdullah had fallen 
into the snare prepared for liim by Kabba Eega : thus I should 
have no other force to rely upon, except the few men that now 
formed my small but tough little party. If so terrible a calamity 
should have occurred as the destruction of Abdidlah's detach- 
ment, I should not only have lost my men, but I should become 
short of ammunition ; as my stores and arms would have fallen 
into the hands of the enemy. This doubt caused me much grave 
anxiety. 

It was strange that we had not received some communication 
from Piionga, whose island was only fifteen or sixteen miles above 
stream from Foweera. Our side of the river appeared to be quite 
uninhabited, and simply consisted of the interminable groves of 
bananas, that had belonged to the inhabitants at a time when 
the district had been thickly po^Dulated. 

The A'^icioria Kile, opposite the Foweera station, was about 
500 yards v*dde. At this season the river was full. The huts 
that we had erected on the north side, upon our arrival from 
Eatiko, had been destroyed by the natives. This did not look 
as though much friendship existed. 

Upon heariug our drums and bugles on the day of our arrival 
at Foweera, a few natives had come to the high rock opposite, 
and had commenced a bawling conversation, and that was only 
slightly understood by one of our women and Molodi the Madi. 

Molodi knew Eionga, as he had visited him at a former time, 
together with a party of xVbou Saood's people. His very slight 
knowledge of tlie language was sufficient to explain to the natives 
across the river that I wished to communicate with Eionga. 

The people on the north hai3pened to belong to Kabba Eega, 
and they were enemies of Eionga; thus we were addressing 
the wrong parties. 

It was highly necessary to make some arrangements for 
crossing the river. There are no canoes on this side, and it 
would be dangerous to trust to rafts, as there were waterfalls 
about three or four hundred yards below upon our left. I 
determined to construct boats. 

AYe felled three large dolape palms (Borassiis Ethlo}ncus), 
which vrcre the onl}^ trees of that species in this neighbourhood. 
These palms are well adapted for canoes, as the bark, or rather 
the outside wood, is intensely hard for about an inch and a half, 
beneath which the tree is simply a pithy, stringy substance, that 
can be rapidly scooped out. 



CHAP. XXIII.] 



MAKE THREE CANOES. 



Two of tlie logs, when shaped, were each twenty-six feet in 
length ; the third was smaller. 

Throughout the march from Masindi we had managed to carry 
an adze, a hammer, and a cold chisel. The adze now came into 
play, together wdtli the handy little axes of the " Forty Thieves." 

Among my troo^DS was a Baggara Arab, who ivas a " canoe- 
builder." This w^as one of the best men of " The Forty," and 
it was now for the first time that I heard of his abilities as a 
boat-builder. This man, Said Bagara^ has since accompanied 
Colonel Long -with great fidelity to the couit of King M'Tese. 

The men took an immense interest in the work ; but as too 
many volunteers might interfere with tlie principal shipwright, I 
sent them all into the forest to collect plantains, I gave orders 
that every man should prepare 14 lbs of plantain flour for the 
journey, in case it should be necessary to march to Fatiko. 

The canoes progressed, and a slice of about a foot wide having 
been taken off horizontally from stem to stern, the soft inside 
was scooped out with an adze, and with lance-heads bent to form 
a half circle. 

In a few days the logs w^ere neatly hollowed, and v/ere then 
carried down and launched upon the river. The long, narrow 
canoes would have been very dangerous without outriggers, 
therefore I determined to adopt the plan that I had seen in 
Ceylon ; and as Lieutenant Baker well represented the omniscience 
of naval men in everything that concerns boats, nauticalstratagems, 
incomprehensible forms of knots, rigging, &g., &c., I left all the 
details of the canoes to his charge. In a short time we j^ossessed 
three admirable vessels that it was quite impossible to upset. I 
nov/ recjuired a few rafts for the transport of baggage, as it would 
be avfkward to cross the river by small sections should an enemy 
oppose our landing on the precipitous bank on the opposite shore. 
I therefore arranged that we should cross in two journeys. The 
party now consisted of 97 soldiers including officers, 5 natives, 
3 sailors, 5 1 women^ hoys, and servants, and 3 Europeans ; total, 
158 persons. 

There was no ambatch wood, but I thought ^ve might form 
rafts by cutting and then drying in the sun the long tough stems 
of the papyrus rush. These, if lashed together in small bundles, 
could be shaped into rafts similar to those used by the Shillook 
tribe. 

Lieutenant Baker took the three sailors and a few intelligent 
soldiers, and set to w^ork. 

The 29 th June had arrived without any news of Eionga. The 



400 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



country appeared to be quite devoid of inhabitants on the south 
banks, neither did the natives show themselves on the north. 
We were masters of the situation, but there was an uncomfort- 
able feeling of loneliness in our position of outcasts. We were 
very hungry, as we had not tasted animal food since the 14th 
Inst. ; there v/as no game, neither were there any doves or birds 
of any kind, except occasional vultures, which, after sitting 
upon a dead tree and regarding us for some time, went off Avitli 
a low opinion of our respectability. 

Y^e lived upon boiled plantains and red peppers, together 
with various vv^ild plants that are wholesome, but not nice, 
when boiled as spinach. Unfortunately, our small supply of 
salt was exhausted, therefore we were obliged to burn grass and 
make potash from the ashes as a substitute. 

We had a small quantity of brand}'-, but we reserved this in 
case of illness or other necessity. 

My men generally made two journeys daily, together with 
the women, to collect green plantains, and they immediately 
commenced peeling and drying them in the sun upon their 
return to camp. 

On the evening of the 29th they came home in great spirits, 
having captured a prisoner. They had tied his arms cruelly 
behind his back, and had led him to camp by a cord secured to 
his neck. 

This man had been discovered in company with two others 
who had escaped to the other side of the river in a canoe. 

I ordered his arms to be released, and cross-examined him, 
IMolodi acting as interpreter. 

The prisoner seemed quite confident upon seeing my wife and 
myself. "Don't you remember meV he exclaimed; " was it 
not I who many years ago carried the travelling-bag for the 
lady on your journey to Fatiko 1 Was it not you that shot the 
antelopes on the marcli, and gave me meat to eat when I was 
hungry V 

Here was an extraordinary piece of good luck ! My men had 
actually captured an old friend in the thickets, who had 
formerly marched with us in the reign of Kamrasi ! 

This fellow now gave us the news. Rionga Avished to see me, 
but he had been so clieated and deceived by the slave-hunting 
companies of Abou Saood, that ho was afraid to trust himself 
among us ; he M'as friendly disposed, but he did not know my 
intentions concerning himself. 

The prisoner declared that the treachery of Kabba Il6ga had 



OHAP. XXIII.] A MESSENGER FROM RIONGA. 



401 



been planned from the beginning. The 300 natives who had 
accompanied my party from Masindi, with the post to Fatiko, 
had attacked and killed some of my men, but he knew no par- 
ticulars; only that they had not gone on to Fatiko with my 
people. This was a great relief to my anxiety, as in that case 
Abdullah must be safe with his detachment. I ordered the 
prisoner to be retained, but to be well treated. 
We had rain nearly every day. 

At daybreak on 1st July, after a heavy night's rain, a voice 
from the high wet grass, about a hundred yards distant, cried 
out to the sentries in Arabic, " Don't fire ! I am a messenger 
from Eionga to Malegge ! " (my former nick-name). 

The man, cold and shivering, was brought before me. He 
had travelled by canoe during the night, but had been afraid to 
approach the sentries until daylight. 

Being assured of my good-will, he informed me that a nephew 
of Eionga's was in the grass waiting for my reply. He im- 
mediately ran out, and soon returned to the camp with his 
companion. 

As these people spoke Arabic, I now explained the whole 
affair, and assured them of my repeated refusal to attack Eionga, 
when I had been pressed to do so both by Kamrasi, and by his 
son, Kabba Eega. There could be little doubt that, had I allied 
with him against Eionga, the battle of Masindi would never 
have taken place ; and the lives of some of my best men would 
have been spared. 

I would now depose Ivabba Eega, and appoint Eionga as the 
vakeel or representative of the Egyptian government, provided 
he would swear allegiance. 

I sent a present to Eionga of entire pieces of Turkey red cloth, 
blue twill, and four handkerchiefs; at the same time I explained 
that we were very hungry, and required cattle and corn. 

Before the messengers returned, I inspected the troops, who 
marched round the camp in their best scarlet uniforms, to the 
sound of the drums and bugles. This exhibition appeared to 
create quite an impression on Eionga's people, who would re}>ort 
us fit for service on their return to their chief. 

Thirty of the men were suffering from ulcerated legs, caused 
by the sharp, poisonous edges of the high grass. 

In a couple of days, two large canoes arrived from Eionga 
with presents of some corn, sweet potatoes, and a cow and 
sheep. We killed the beef immediately, as we were ravenously 
hungry. 

D D 



402 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



On 16tli July, we started, in nine canoes that had been sup- 
plied by Rionga, to visit him at his station. The troops 
marched by land on the south bank. 

After paddling for about fifteen miles along the grand Yictoria 
Nile, which in the narrowest part was at least 300 yards wide, 
we arrived at 5 p.m. at a desolate spot, exactly opposite to the 
tail of the large island upon which Eionga resided. 

Nothing had been prepared for our reception, therefore we 
landed in the forest, and my men set to work to collect firewood 
for the night. The troops who had marched overland had not 
arrived. Fortunately we had some flour and a bottle of curry- 
powder; therefore we dined off dhurra-jDorridge and curry, and 
lay down on our camp-sheets to sleep. ¦ 

This was a thorough negro welcome ; nothing to eat ! 

The next morning, at about 7 a.m., the troops with Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader arrived ; they had suff'ered much from high grass 
and thorns, as they had been obliged to break their way through 
the jungle, in the total absence of a path. 

A number of Rionga's natives now arrived to assist in making 
our camp. All hands set vigorously to work building huts, in 
an excellent position that I had selected on the river's bank. 

On 18th July, messengers came early to inform me that 
Eionga would arrive that morning to give me a warm welcome. 

I had already sent him, from Foweera, a beautiful cloak of 
gold brocade, together with a new tarboosh and sky-blue turban. 

At about 8 A.M., drums Avere beating on the island, and horns 
were blowing in all directions ; these were signals tliat the re- 
nowned Eionga was on the move. AVe shortly perceived numer- 
ous large canoes jDUshing oft" from the island, and making for 
our landuig-place, which I had already cleared. 

A cow, sheep, and a load of corn were first delivered as 
a present. These were followed by Rionga, and a large staff of 
his principal headmen. 

He was a handsome man of about fifty, with exceedingly good 
manners. He had none of the stifi'ness of Kamrasi, nor the 
gauche bearing of Kab])a Rega, but he was perfectly at his ease. 
He at once thanked me for the han:lsome suit in Avhich he was 
dressed, without Avhich, he assured me that it would have been 
difficult for him to have appeared before me in a becoming 
manner. The troops were drawn out to receive him, and the 
conversation at once turned upon Kabba Rcga and Abou Saood. 

He had an intimate knowledge of all that had taken place, 
which had been reported to him by his spies ; and he declared 



CHAP. XXIII.] 



ARRIVAL OF RIONGA. 



403 



that Aboil Saood had long ago arranged a pLan with Kabba 
Eega for our destruction should we arrive from Gondokoro. 

Eionga was well aware how often I had refused to attack him, 
and he confessed that I had been his saviour by the arrest of 
Suleiman, who would have joined the forces of Kabba Eega 
to have crushed him. 

1 took a great fancy to Eionga, as he Avas so perfectly free and 
easy in his manner. He told nie several anecdotes of the esca]3es 
he had had from snares laid for him by Kararasi; and he seemed 
quite rejoiced that T, who had always declined to molest him 
before I had known liim personally, should now have taken 
him by the hand. 

He declared that he would always remain the faithful repre- 
sentative of the Khedive's government, but at the same time we 
must immediately excliamje hlood; without Avhich ceremony, the 
peojDle would not rise in his favour. He said, the natives 
of this country, and also the Langgos and the IJmiros, shall 
hear thtit I have exchanged blood with the Pacha, they will 
have thorough confidence, as they will know that he will always 
be true to me, and I to him ; but v/ithout this irrevocable con- 
tract, they will always suspect some intrigue, either upon your 
side or mine." 

Eionga proposed that we should drhik blood on the following 
morning, as no time should be lost ; he revelled with childish 
delight in the despair that would seize Kabba Eega and his 
chiefs when they should hear the news that the Pacha, and his 
friend Eionga had exchanged blood. 

The preparation for the ceremony was to commence that even- 
ing. We were to drink a large quantity of plaintain cider. 
" Not such stuff as Kabba Eega gave you," exclaimed Eionga ; 

but a drink such as a friend will partake with you." I was 
not to eat anything on the niorrov/, until the sun should be in a 
certain position in the heavens, at which time he would call 
upon me. I was to exchange blood with Eionga; Colonel Abd- 
el-Kader and Lieutenant Baker were to go through the same 
interesting ceremony with his minister and his son at the same 
time. 

I recommended him at once to summon the chiefs of the 
Langgos and the Umiros, as I should wish to secure their 
alliance and allegiance without loss of time. 

Many large jars of the best quality of plantain cider v.'ere 
now brought from the island. 

The night passed in nothing but singing and dancing, as 

D D 2 



404 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XXIII. 



Eioiiga-gave an entertainment in honour of our arrival, and as a 
preliminary to the ceremony of exchanging blood on the follow- 
ing morning. 

At about 9 A.M. the unpleasant task was to be performed. 
Eionga arrived and begged me to accompany him within a tent, 
together with Lieutenant Baker, Colonel Abd-el-Kader, Kaniissua; 
and Maj5bi. 

Several of his hrst-class people were admitted as witnesses ; 
these were Inrpri, Kimata, Ulendu, Singoma, Kibera, and some 
others. 

Fortunately I had a small lancet in the handle of my knife ; 
therefore 1 made a slight incision on my left fore-arm, from 
which a few drops of blood flowed. Eionga immediately seized 
my arm and greedily sucked the scratch. I had to perform 
upon his arm. and I took care to make so slight a puncture that 
only a drop of blood appeared ; this was quite enough for my 
share of the cerenion}". We were now friends for ever, and no 
suspicion of foul play could possibly be entertained. Lieutenant 
Eaker and Abd-el-Kader went through the same operation with 
their respective partners, and cemented an mdissoluble friendship. 

It was rather a disgusting performance, but at the same time 
it was absolutely necessary for the success of the expedition. I 
had now really secured a trustworthy man, who would act as 
my vakeel. 

"When we emerged from the hut, a minstrel appeared, who 
played upon a species of harp, and sang praises of myself and 
Eionga ; and, of coiurse, abused Kabba Eega with true poetical 
licence. 

I gave the minstrel a considerable present of beads, and he 
went away rejoicing, singing and twanging his instrument to the 
discomfiture of all our enemies. 

It was fortunate tliat I had been able to carry so much as 
300 lbs. of beads. The soldiers could now purchase fish and 
potatoes. 

On the 23rd July, two great sheiks were introduced by Eionga : 
" Gonnh," the chief of a Langgo district, and " Okcoloo," a 
renowned warrior of the Umiros. 

The naked body of Okooloo was covered with small tattoo 
marks, each of which I was assured represented a victim to his 
lance. 

If he had really killed half that enormous number of men, ho 
must have considerably rodnced the population, and he could 
have been doing little else during his life. Samfon's feat of 



CHAP. XXIII.] OKOOLOO, THE UMIRO WARRIOR. 



405 



killing 1,000 men was hardly to be compared to the slau^liter 
that had been accomplished by Olvooloo. 

The prospect of a general attack upon Kabba Eega with fire 
and lance was delightful to the taste of this warlike old chief, 
who would, at the end of the campaign, have no more room on 
his own skin, and would have to keep the list of his game either 
upon the back of a son or a favourite wife. 

I soon made friends with these tribes. A few red and yellow 
handkerchiefs, and two or three pounds of red and white beads, 
were sufficient to gain their alliance. I proclaimed Rionga as 
the vakeel of the government, who would rule Unyoro in the 
place of Kabba Rega, deposed. Rionga was accepted by acclama- 
tion ; and if the young traitor, Kabba Rega, could have witnessed 
this little projet de traitS, he would have shivered in his shoes. 

Rionga was a general favourite, and the natives were sincerely 
glad to see him at length supported by the government. Through- 
out his life he had striven bravely against every species of 
treachery and persecution ; the day of his revenge had arrived. 

I did not wish to overran Unyoro until the grass should be fit 
to burn ; this would not be until the end of November. 

I therefore arranged that I would leave Abd-el-Kader with 
sixty-five men in a powerful stockade that I had constructed on 
the edge of the river in this spot, N. lat. 2° 6' 17", to support 
Rionga, and to organize the native forces, while I would take 
forty men (sniders) and march to Fatiko, to inquire into all that 
had happened during my absence. It would be necessary to 
form a corps of irregulars under the command of Wat-el-Mek, 
which I should immediately send to occupy Unyoro. 

Rionga told me that he should attack M'rooli in company 
with the Langgos and Umiros, who would quickly overrun the 
country now that Kabba Rega was unsupported by the slave- 
hunters. 

He at once collected fifty natives to carry our loads to Fatiko. 

On 27th July, having left all beads, &c., with Colonel Abd- 
el-Kader for the purchase of provisions, we took a cordial leave 
of Rionga, and started, in six canoes, at 12.30 p.m. ; paddling 
down the stream, we arrived at our deserted zareeba at 3.12 p.m. 
We found the camp quite undisturbed ; no one appeared to have 
entered it since we had left it some days ago. The palm out- 
outrigger canoes were lying in the same spot, secured to the 
rushes ; and all that had belonged to us was rigidly respected. 

Rionga had given us a sheep to eat during our march of 
seventy-nine miles from Foweera to Fatiko. This did not seem 



408 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



very generous, but his cattle had been mostly carried off by the 
slave-hunters under Suleiman. 

Fortunately, just as we entered our old station, I shot a guinea- 
fowl, which made a good cuiry, and saved our store of dried fisli 
for the uninhabited wilderness before us. 

The best fish (as I before mentioned in " The Albert ]N"'y^nza ") 
is the Lejridosiren annedens, and this fat and delicate meat is 
excellent when smoked and dried. 

"We slept in our old camp, and early on the following morning 
we prepared to cross the river. 

Eionga's people did not r^uite trust the inhabitants on the 
other side ; I accordingly sent a strong party of rifles across first 
to occupy the high rocky landing-place. • 

On the return of the canoes, we were just preparing to cross 
with the remainder of the party, when I observed eight natives 
walking very fast along the forest-covered cliff on the other side. 
"We immediately gave the alarm to our men who occupied the 
rocks. The telescope now discovered that the arrangement of 
the hair of these natives was the fashion of Shooli and Fatiko. 

The eight strangers, who had not before observed us, now" 
halted in astonishment, and presently they shouted in good 
Arabic — 

" Are you the Pacha's soldiers ? We are sent by Abdullah to 
look for the Pacha !" 

This was great good fortune ; then Abdullah was alive, and I 
hoped my detachment Avas all right ! 

We crossed the broad river, and upon close arrival, we dis- 
covered that two of the messengers were well known to us, one 
of whom was larro, the interpreter of the great sheik, Eot J arma. 

The first gleam of pleasure Avith which I had welcomed these 
messengers quickly changed to considerable anxiety. 

I was now informed that the attempt to destroy us by poison, 
and subsequently by a treacherous attack at 2.1asindi, was mainly 
due to the intrigues of Abou Saood, who had originally advised 
Kabba Eega to resist me should I arrive in his country. This 
traitor Abou Saood had considered that we should be certaiidy 
massacred when once in the heart of Unyoro. He had therefore 
assumed a despotic command of Fatiko and all the neighbouring 
countries shortly after my departure; and he had given orders 
to the natives and to the sheik, Eot Jarma, that "no supplies of 
corn should be provided for Major Abdullah's troops." 

Eot Jarma had been faithful to tlie government, and his people 
had carried corn to Major Abdullah. AIjou Saood had there-. 



CHAP. XXIII.] 



BAD NEWS. 



407 



fore ordered liis men to attack Rot Jarma. They had accordingly 
surprised him while believing in the protection of the govern- 
ment, and had captured his cattle, together with a number of 
slaves. In that attack the brigands had lost five men, whose 
guns had been subsequently taken to Kabba Rega for sale by 
the natives we had seen at Masindi. 

Abou Saood then, enraged at the loss of five men, together 
with their guns, had sent for Wat-el-Mek from Faloro, and had 
given him the command above the well-known Ali Hussein, 
with orders to carry fire and sword through the country. 

Major Abdullali had vainly expostulated. Abou Saood had 
personally threatened him ; and Ali Hussein and an officer 
named Lazim, with some others, had gone armed into the 
government camp, and had actually seized natives who had 
taken refuge with Abdullah, from whose house they were thus 
dragged by force in defiance of authority. 

When the news arrived from Foweera that I had punished 
Suleiman for the murder of the prisoner, both Abou Saood and 
his people had declared, that they " would secure Major Abdul- 
lah in a forked pole, or sheba, and treat him in a similar manner." 
They had also threatened to attack the government camp. 

Major Abdullah had written to me at Masindi requesting 
instructions ; he had intrusted the letter to a native of Eaieera. 
This man had most unfortunately arrived at Masindi late in the 
evening upon which the troops had been poisoned. On the 
following morning he was a witness to the murder of poor 
Monsoor and Ferritch Baggara; and when the general action 
commenced, he climbed up a tree at no great distance from the 
station, and cried out that he was the bearer of a letter from 
Abdullah." 

The bullets whizzed so thickly about him that he descended 
from his post, and then, being alarmed lest he might be killed 
by the natives should his mission be discovered, he had run 
away as fast as possible, and returned 160 miles to Fatiko. Thus 
I never received Major Abdullah's letter. 

The letter-carrier having seen our handful of men surrounded 
by many thousands of the enemy in Masindi, and knowing that 
the perfect organization of Unyoro would bring countless enemies 
upon us, who would occupy the routes by ambuscades, had 
considered our position hopeless. 

The report was spread "that we were all destroyed:" thus 
Abou Saood was delighted. 

Some days later, my party arrived at Fatiko that had left 



408 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap, XXIII. 



!Masindi on the 23rd May with the post, together with the 
prisoner Suleiman. 

These people had suffered terribly, and had lost eleven men 
killed, exclusive of one who had died on the Avay from fatigue. 

The treacherous plan arranged by Kabba Eega had failed, and 
the natives had attacked them before the time appointed. This 
will be described hereafter, 

Suleiman was no longer a prisoner, but he commanded the 
Fabbo station for Abou Saood. 

"Wat-el-Mek had received my letter, and he wished to serve 
the government ; but Abou Saood had prevented him ; and now 
that I was supposed to be dead, it would be impossible. 

This man, Wat-el-Mek, had nevertheless behaved well, as he 
had immediately demanded 100 men from Abou Saood, and 
fifty men from Abdullah, in order to march to Unyoro, join 
Eionga, and with a native army he would have searched for us 
throughout the country. 

Abou Saood had refused to give the 100 men, therefore we 
had been left to our fate. 

The result of the story was that I must hurry on to Fatiko ; 
Eot Jarma had sent ills messengers to discover me whether dead 
or alive, and should I not march quickly, Abdullah might be 
attacked and overpowered, and the slave-hunters would possess 
themselves of all the ammunition and stores. 

. . . This was not very refreshing news, after all the troubles 
we had gone through. 

Had I received this important intelligence during my stay 
with Eionga, I should not have left Colonel Abd-el-Kader with 
sixty men behind me. It would not do to waste time by halting : 
and should I send to recall Abd-el-Kader immediately after my 
departure, the effect upon Eionga would create suspicion. The 
withdrawal of the troops would destroy all confidence on the part 
of his native allies. 

I gave the order to march forward at once. 

My horse, Jamoos, now the only survivor of all those that I 
brought from Cairo, was in good condition, but he suffered from 
a woeful sore back, occasioned by the heavy load that he had 
carried from ]\lasindi. ]My wife was therefore obliged to walk, as 
the mud was too deep for the solitary donkey, who was weak and ill. 

For more than a mile and a half we had to wade through 
flooded marshes nearly hip deep ; the heavy rains had made the 
country boggy and unpleasant. 



CHAP. XXIII.] OUR SOLITARY SHEEP IS STOLEN. 



409 



We had one slieep for the journey of seventy-nine miles, but 
this was missing upon the second day's march, and we subse- 
quently discovered that it had been stolen and eaten by our 
guide and the carriers supplied by Eionga. We were thus 
reduced to dried fish in the place of our lost mutton, for which 
we felt inclined to go into mourning. 

Although we had been badly fed of late, and for twenty-three 
days had been without solid animal food (since the inarch from 
Masindi), we were nevertheless in excellent health ; and always 
hungry. 

We marched well through the uninhabited wilderness of forest, 
high grass, and swamps, and arrived at the village of Sharga, ten 
miles from Fatiko, on August 1st, 1872. 

The people had collected in considerable numbers to receive 
US, and we were presented with a fat ox for the troops, thirteen 
large jars of merissa, and a very plump sheep for ourselves. 

The soldiers were delighted, poor fellows ; and we likewise 
looked forward with no small pleasure to a good stew. 

Numerous sheiks had collected to receive us, and a formal 
complaint and protest was made against Abou Saood and his 
people. 

An attack had been planned by the slavers, and Abdullah 
and his small detachment of 100 men would be overpowered. 
They were already disheartened, as they believed that we were 
dead, and they had been daily taunted with this fact by the 
brigands, who asked them, " what they were going to do now 
that the Pacha was killed." 

Abou Saood, having given his orders to Wat-el-Mek, and to 
the ruffian Ali Hussein, had withdrawn to the station of Fabbo, 
twenty-two miles west of Fatiko, to which place he had carried 
all the ivory. He was not fond of fighting, i^ersonally . 

The natives corroborated the information I had received from 
Rot Jarma's messengers. They declared that not only had 
women and children been carried off, but that the slave-hunters 
under Ali Hussein had cut the throats of many of their women 
before their eyes, and had dashed the brains of the young chil- 
dren upon the rocks in derision of my power ; saying, Now see 
if the Nuzzerani (Christian) can protect you!" 

They declared that Wat-el-Mek really Avished to join the 
government, but that v/hen he got drunk, both Abou Saood and 
others could induce him to behave badly. 

There were several hundred people present at this meeting ; 
and the sheiks wound up in a cool and temperate manner, by 



410 



ISMAlLlA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



advising me not to judge from what tliey had told me, hut 
simply to march early on the following morning to FatDco, and 
to receive the report direct from my own commandant. Major 
Ahdullah. 

"If he contradicts ns, you may say that we are liars ; then 
never believe us again." 

This was the conclusion of the palaver. 

The morning of 2nd August arrived, and we started at 6.20 
A.M., and marched fast over a beautifid country of dells, woods, 
and open park-like lands, until we ascended the hill that rose 
towards the high plateau at Fatiko. 

As we passed the numerous villages we Avere joined by curious 
bands of natives, who by degrees swelled, our party to nearly a 
thousand persons. There was no doubt that these people ex- 
pected to witness a row, as they knew that Abdullah had been 
threatened. It was therefore highly probable that we might be 
attacked, as the slave-h miters would imagine that my small force 
of forty men was the last remnant of my detachment. 

]^To one at Fatiko had an idea of my existence : thus we should 
arrive as though risen from the dead. 

I halted the men on a large flat rock about a mile and a half 
south of Fatiko. Here they changed their clothes, and dressed 
in their best scarlet uniforms and white linen trousers. 

We again marched forward, mitil, ujDon gaining the racecourse- 
like plateau, we j^erceived the station in the distance. 

The bugles now sounded the assembly," to apprise Major 
Abdullah of our approach. We then marched, while the natives, 
who delight in music, struck up an accompaniment on their 
whistles. My wife was riding the horse, as his back was nearly 
recovered. 

"With the telescope, I now perceived a great stir in Major 
Abdullah's camp. The men were running to and fro ; presently 
red dots appeared ; these rapidly increased, until a thin line of 
scarlet showed me that his troops were drawn up outside the 
camp to receive us. 

We arrived at 9.30 am. The first formalities having been 
gone through, the troops embraced their friends ; and I shook 
Major Abdullah warmly by the hand, and asked him for innnediate 
news. He merely replied : " Thank God, sir, you are safe and 
arrived here ; all will go well nov^^ that you are alive again. I 
have kept a journal, and when you have rested, I will hand you 
my rejiort in writing." 

My old dragoman, Mohammed, had burst out crying Avith joy 



CHAP. XXIII.] 



ARRIVAL AT PATIKO. 



411 



at our arrival ; and he assured me that it was most fortunate that 
I had appeared, as affairs had become worse than ever. 

The natives that had accompanied us had ascended the large 
flat rock which commanded the station (and which now forms 
the citadel), upon which they had squatted down like a flock of 
cormorants, to observe all that passed. 

J^o one had come to salute me from Abou Saood's station, which 
was almost a portion of that belonging to the government, as it 
was only separated by a level turf ninety yards across. 

The absence of the vakeel and his people was a studied insult, 
as it Vv^as his duty to have at once appeared, with his men in line 
to receive us. 

A hut having been swept out, I entered to change my dress, 
as I wished to inspect the troops. I never wore a uniform in 
this country, except upon state occasions ; but a simple Norfolk 
shirt of thick white cotton, and trousers of the same material. 
This, with an Egyptian silk coffeeah arranged over my own 
old helmet hat. was sufficient for Central Africa. 

I ordered Major Abdullah to form the troops in line, as I 
wished to inspect them. 

At the sound of the bugle, they formed two deep on the 
beautiful turf outside the slight fence v/hich surrounded the 
ca'.np. My horse, having been rubbed down and quickly saddled, 
was led through the narrow wicket ; having mounted, I rode 
down the line and made a short inspection of the troops, who 
appeared to be in excellent health. 

I was just returning to the camp, and was about to dismount, 
as I could not ride through the extremely narrow wicket, when 
I was begged by Major Abdullah to wait a little longer, as the 
people of Wat-el-Mek were now approaching with their numerous 
flags, to salute me according to the usual custom. 

Seven large silk crimson flags upon tall staffs headed with 
lance points, and ornamented with balls of black ostrich feathers, 
marked the intervals of the advancing line of ruffians. 

They were about 270 strong, and they formed a line in very 
open order, exactly facing the government troops, at about forty 
yards' distance. Two principal officers, Wat-el-Mek and the 
celebrated Ali Hussein, were exceedingly busy running up and 
down the line, and forming their men, so as to make the greatest 
display of force. Wat-el-Mek was dressed in bright yellow with 
loose floA\dng trousers. Ali Hussein was in a snow-white long 
robe with black trousers. The officers were distinguished by 
clean clothes, but the men were clad in various costumes, gener- 
ally formed of tanned leather, 



412 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIII. 



By way of complimenting me, tliey had brought out two large 
cases of ammunition — each a load for a native ! 

These boxes Avere placed with a guard beneath a tree. My 
wife, who had as usual come to watch the proceedings, now 
begged me to dismount, as she had noticed the cases of cartridges, 
and she feared I might be treacherously shot. 

Of course I remained on horseback until the company had 
completed their arrangements. They now stood in position with 
their officers in their respective places, but no one moved forward. 

I could not believe that they would have the audacity to 
attack the government troops ; but having waited for some time 
face to face, without the slightest " salaam " having been made 
by the officers of Abou Saood, I ordered Miijor Abdullah to retire 
to the camp Avith his troops, and to disperse. 

I then requested him to send for Wat-el-Mek, as I Avislied to 
speak Avith him immediately. 

With much patience, I Avaited Avithin the station for about 
half an hour ; during Avhich time, five different officers had gone 
to call Wat-el- j\Iek, and each had returned Avith a message that 
"he Avould come presently." 

At length, two of his people, Avho had in my absence insulted 
and threatened to attack Major Abdullah, arrived in the camp 
Avith a message, " that both the vakeels loere sicJc" I ordered 
these men to be detained. 

I could no longer stand this insolence, as I at once understood 
that they refused to appear. Accordingly, I instructed Major 
Abdullah to go himself Avitli a few soldiers, and should Wat-el- 
Mek refuse to obey my order to accompany him, he should put 
him under arrest. 

The bugle summoned the men Avho had dispersed, and they 
immediately formed two deep in a small open space Avithin the 
camp, to receive instructions. At this time, Lieutenant Baker 
volunteered to go and speak to Wal-el-Mek, who Avould (ho 
thought) be more likely to listen to him than to Major Abdullah, 
who had so frequently been insulted by the slave-hunters during 
my a.bsence. 

I agreed that it Avould be advisable; at the same time he must 
be accompanied by some troops. I therefore began to address the 
men Avho Avcre standing before mc, and I instructed them to obey 
Lieutenant Baker implicitly, and upon no account to 

Mj instructions Avere interrupted by a volley of musketry con- 
centrated upon the mass of scarlet uniforms ! 

Without the slightest provocation Ave Avere thus treacherously 



CHAP. XXIII.] THE SLAVE-HUNTERS' TREACHERY. 



413 



attacked, and heavy file-firing continued upon the station. The 
bullets were whistling through the straw huts, and seven of my 
men, including Mol5di, were struck within a few seconds. 

My Avife, who was always ready in any emergency, rushed out 
of her hut with my rifle and belt. 

The soldiers had already commenced firing by the time that I 
was armed and had reached the front, by the edge of the light 
fence of wattles. 

I now observed the enemy about ninety yards distant ; many 
of them were kneeling on the ground and firing, but immediately 
after taking a shot, they retired behind the huts to reload. In 
this manner they were keeping up a hot fire. 

I perceived a man in white upper garments, but with black 
trousers : this fellow knelt and fired. I immediately took a shot 
at him Avith the "Dutchman." 

"We should have lost many men if this hiding behind huts and 
popping from cover had been alloAved to continue. T therefore 
called my " Forty Thieves " together, and ordered the bugler to 
sound the charge with the bayonet. 

Pushing through the narrow wicket gateway, I formed some 
thirty or forty men in line and led them at full speed with fixed 
bayonets against the enemy. 

Although the slave-hunters had primed themselves well Avith 
araki and merissa before they had scrcAved up courage to attack 
the troops, they Avere not quite up to standing before a bayonet 
charge. The " Forty Thieves " were aAvkAvard customers, and in 
a quarter of a minute they Avere amongst them. 

The enemy were regularly crumpled up! and had they not 
taken to flight, they Avould have been bayoneted to a man. 

I noAV saAV Wat-el-Mek in his unmistakable yelloAV suit ; he 
Avas marching alone across a road about 180 yards distant. 

He Avas crossing to my right ; and I imagined, as he was alone, 
that he intended to screen himself behind the houses, and then 
surrender. 

To my surprise, I observed that Avhen he recognized me, he at 
once raised his gun and took a steady aim. 

I Avas at that moment reloading but I Avas ready the instant 
that he had fired and missed me. 

He now Avalked toAvards a hut across to my right. I alloAved 
about half a foot before him for his pace, and the " Dutchman " 
had a A\^ord to say. 

The bullet struck his right hand, taking the middle finger off 
at the root, and then striking the gun in the middle of the lock 



414 



IS.^IAILIA. 



[CHA.P. XX III. 



j)late, it cut it completely in halves as tlioiigh it had been divided 
by a blow Avith an axe. He was almost immediately taken pris- 
oner. One of " The Forty " (Seroor) Avas so enraged that he was 
with difficulty prevented from finishing AVat-el-Mek with a 
ba3'onet thrust. 

I now ordered a general advance at the double ; and the troops 
spread out through the extensive town of huts, Avhich occupied 
about thirty acres. 

As Ave ran through the toAA'n, I observed about 150 of the 
enemy had rallied around their flags, and Avere retreating quickly, 
but steadily, in the direction of the Shooa hill. They continued 
to turn au 1 ilre from the rear of their party. 

HaA^ing reduced the distance to about 1-50 yards, the crimson 
silk banners aliorded excellent marks for riile practice. The}^ f ell 
to the riglit and left, as the shots Avere directed a little low so as 
to hit tlio bearers. In a few minutes not a flao' AA^as to be seen ! 

o 

The fatal sni lers poured bullets into the dense body of men, who, 
after Avaving two and fro as the shots thinned their number, at 
length ran off Avithout any further effort to maintain a form- 
ation. 

For upAvards of four miles Lieutenant Baker and I cliased these 
ruffians Avith the " Forty Thieves." Many were killed in the pur- 
suit ; and upon our return to the camp at Fatiko at 2 p.m., wq 
had captured a herd of 306 cattle, 130 slaves, 15 donkeys, 43 
prisoners, 7 flags, together AAuth the entire station. 

The enemA^ had suiiered the loss of more than half their party 
killed. 

The actual fighting had been done by the ''Forty Thieves;" 
and the men of Abdullah's detachment had behaved disgracefully. 
Instead of foUoAving the enemy in the retreat, they had frater- 
nized with a croAvd of natiA'es in pillaging the extensive station. 

I noAV had to clear all these felloAvs out. The officers ap- 
peared to have quite lost their heads; and the natiA^cs had carried 
off all the guns and ammunition from the dead men, and had 
sacked and plundered the poAvder magazine. 

?.[y Avife had placed sentries on- the high rocks Avhicli com- 
manded a Auew of the entire country : she also liad the cattle 
driA'eii Avithin the fence ; and had secured the prisoners, includ- 
ing Wat-ol-]\Iek, in tAVO large huts, over Avhich she had placed a 
guard. The officers bad been so completely bcAvildercd by the 
suddenness of the affair, that their Avits had been exercised in an 
extraordinary direction. They had commenced firing Ilale's 
rockets Avhile Ave Averc in advance pursuing the enemy, and a 



OHAP. XXIII.] DEATH OF ALI HUSSEIN. 



415 



c()rLj)lo of these screeching projectiles had actually passed over my 

Wii had neither eaten nor drunk since the preceding evening, 
vrith the exception of some water that we had procured from a 
stream at the extreme limit of the pursuit; where we had lost the 
enemy, who had scattered in the forest. 

With her usual forethought, my wife had ordered the cook to 
h;ive breakfast ready ; and having washed hands and faces, we 
sat down to a good curry of mutton, and excellent cafe-au-lait, 
tlie milk having been obtained from the captured cows. 

We had worked fairly that morning, having marched ten miles 
from Sharga, then fought the rebels and run four miles in pur- 
suit, and four miles on our return, through an exceedingly rough 
country. 

]My old friends, Gimoro and Shooli, were delighted to see us 
again. The native sheiks thronged round the entrance of our 
hut to congratulate us on the defeat of the rebels ; and messengers 
had been already sent off to Eot Jarma and all the principal 
headmen of the country. 

Wat-el-Mek was safe. I knew that most of the principal 
officers were either killed or wounded ; but I was anxious to bo 
assured of the fate of the arch-ruffian, Ali Hussein. 
Where is Ali Hussein ? " I asked the natives. 
Dead ! " cried a number of voices. 

'•Are you certain I asked. 

"We will bring you his head, for he is not far off," they 
replied ; and several men started immediately. 

We were very hungry ; and as curry is quickly eaten, we were 
not long at breakfast ; this was hardly concluded when some 
natives rushed to the open door, and throwing something heavy 
on the floor of the hut, I saw at my feet the bloody heacU=of Ali 
Hussein ! 

There was no mistake in the person. The villainous expres- 
sion Avas as strongly marked upon the features in death as it had 
been in life. 

The natives had appropriated his clothes, which they described 
as " a long white robe and black trousers." Ali Hussein had 
been struck by two bullets ; one had broken his arm, and the 
other had passed through his thigh. He was alive when the 
natives discovered him ; but as he had been the scourge of tho 
country, he, of course, received no. mercy from them. 



416 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

NO MEDICAL MEN. 

The deatli of tlie unfortunate Dr. Gedge, my chief medical officer 
at Tewfikeeyah, added to the retirement of one of the Egyptian 
surgeons from Gondokoro, had left me witli so weak a medical 
staff that I had been unable to take a doctor from head-quarters. 
I therefore was compelled to perform all necessary operations 
myself, and to attend personally upon the' wounded men. In the 
late encounter, although I had not actually lost a soldier, seven 
were badly wounded. One had a broken thigh, and the bullet 
remained in the leg. Two had smaslied ankle-joints, in one of 
which the ball remained fixed among the bones. Some of the 
prisoners were also wounded and one shortly died. 

"Wat-el-Mek's hand was much lacerated, in addition to the loss 
of the middle finger. 

I dressed all the wounds with a weak solution of carbolic acid. 
After some trouble, I extracted the bullet from the broken thigh,^ 
and set the bone. 

Wat-el-Mek had two excellent English double-barrelled guns. 
That destroyed by the " Dutchman " was a gun by Blissett of 
London, which had been given to him by Captain Speke when 
he parted at Gondokoro : the other was my own old gun, that I 
had given to Ibrahim when I travelled with him during my first 
journey in Africa. 

On the 3rd August I took evidence against Abou Saood. 
Mohammed Wat-el-Mek, and a prisoner named Besheer, who was 
an officer in the same company, both swore upon the Koran, that 
in firing at me " they had only obeyed the orders of Abou Saood, 
who had instructed them to attack ]ne o.nd the government troops 
should I attempt to interfere with their proceedings." 

Wat-el-]\Iek declared upon oath that he had always wished to 
serve me, but he had been prevented by Abou Saood and others ; 
and he had now been rightly punished. This, he said, was " God's 
hand." He had been in countless fights with natives during 
many years, and he was possessed of powerful charms and spells, 

^ Tliis mau was one of " The Forty and about two mouths after the 
vfO'ind he was again on duty, and only slightly lame. 



OHAP. XXIV.] WAT-EL-MEK SWEARS FIDELITY. 



417 



including numerous verses from the Koran suspended from his 
arms : these had always protected him until the day when he had 
raised his hand against the government. His charms had at once 
failed him, and he had lost both his finger and the gan with 
which he had fired at me. 

My officers and soldiers really believed that I had purposely 
cut his finger off, and smashed his gun by a rifle shot, to prove to 
him what I could accomplish with a rifle ; and thus to vrarn a 
man who would be useful to me, instead of killing him. 

Wat-el-Mek now ofl'ered to swear upon the Koran fidelity and 
allegiance if I would pardon him ; and he would at once prove 
his sincerity by raising an irregular corps. 

This man was a curious character ; his superstitious nature had 
been seized with the conviction that his present position was a 
special visitation of divine wrath. He was a courageous fellow, 
and he knew the country and the natives better than any man 
living. I had always wished to engage his services, and I 
considered this an excellent opportunity. 

The officers now begged me to forgive him. He was led away 
to a stream of clear water, where he went through the process of 
washing with a cake of soap, which was sorely needed. He was 
then di'essed in clean clothes that were lent to him for that 
purpose, and the Koran was brought and laid open at a 
particular passage. 

Placing his wounded hand upon the page, he repeated with 
great devotion the formal oath. ' 

I now gave him a few words of good advice, encouraging his 
preconceived idea that God had chastised him specially, and that 
the future would depend upon his own conduct. 

¦ Having thus secured this valuable man, whom I had always 
wished to engage at the commencement of the expedition, there 
was much to be done, and it will be necessary to make a few 
extracts from my journal that will better explain the position : — - 
August 5, 1872. — I ought to hang Abou Saood, but much 
diplomacy is necessary. The rebels in their three stations, Fabbo, 
Faloro, and Farragenia number about 600, exclusive of armed 
Baris. 

" I have with me 146 men, including officers. Should I raise 
the whole country, the difficulty would be to prevent the natives 
from exterminating Abou Saood and the whole of his forces. 
Should such an event occur, how should I be able to occupy this 

^ Wat-el-Mek always behaved well from that time. 

E E 



418 



;iSMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV. 



extensive country with so small a force 1 I have lately liad a 
painful lesson in tlie treachery of Kabba Eega, who, when I had 
relieved him of his enemies, the slave-traders, immediately turned 
against iiie. These natives might probably do the same. Xegroes 
respect nothing but force ; and the force that now exists, if 
removed, will leave them free to act against the government. 
Already they have benefited by the fight with the slave-hunters, 
by running ofi" with the arms and ammunition, together with a 
number of cattle, while our troops were engaged Avith the 
enemy." 

I came to the conclusion that it would be unwise to get rid of 
the slave-hunters by physical force. Although I felt that they 
were entirely in my power, as I coidd bombard their stations with 
Hale's rockets if they shoidd refuse to turn out, the natives would, 
in the event of a flight, most assuredly possess themselves of the 
guns iind ammunition. 
• AVitli 146 men, I could not take more than eighty men to act 
against 600, as the small force of sixty-six would be the minimum 
that I could leave to protect the Fatiko station. If with eighty 
men, together with a wild army of natives, I should attack Fabbo 
(in vrliich I had heard that Abou Saood w^as concentrating his 
people from the other stations), every one of the slave-traders 
Would be massacred. It would be impossible for eighty men to 
fight, and to secure at the same time the 600 stand of arms that 
¦\Vouid be in the hands of the rebels. These, together with the 
muskets belonging to the Baris, would all fall into the possession 
6f my native allies, who woidd immediately scatter and disappear 
with their prize. 

Should I attack Fabbo, the result would simply arm the 
natives with 800 or 900 stand of muskets, together with a large 
dmount of ammunition, which they might probably use against 
cue at some future time. . 

' I resolved to work diplomatically^ and to keep the slave-hunt- 
ers' party as a rod above the backs of the natives, until I should 
discover their real character. 

It had been necessary to establish a corn tax ^ for the support 

1 The corn tax was thus established. Each house was taxed to pay a 
small basket of corn every full moon. All old and infirm people and also 
strangers were exempted from taxation. The headman of each village was 
responsible for the tax, and he delivered a bundle of small pieces of reed, 
the size of drawmg pencils, Avhicli represented the number of houses belong- 
ing to able-bodied men. This tax was always paid cheerfully, in gratitude 
for the protection afibrded by the govermnout. 



CHAP. XXIV.] MY MESSENGERS FIRED AT. 



419 



of the troops. Possibly the natives, if entirely relieved from 
their oppressors, might refuse to acknowledge government taxa- 
tion ! At all events I determined to proceed cautiously. 

The first step was to summon Abou Saood and to hear liis 
defence from his own mouth. 

I had given the prisoners their choice, of either enlisting in the 
government service, or returning to Khartoum, 

• Of course they ought to have been shot in a batch ; but' I could 
not alFord to shoot them. I had to catch and tame my wild 
beasts instead of destroying them. 

A considerable number agreed to serve under "Wat-el-Mek. 

I wrote, on 6th August, a letter addressed to Abou Saood, 
summoning him to appear instantly at Fatiko : at the same time 
I promised him a free exit ; without which written assurance I 
might as well have summoned the ^'man in the moon." 

It was difficult to procure natives who would accompany the 
new irregulars with the letter, as news had arrived that Abou 
Saood's people were plundering and laying waste the neighbour- 
hood of Fabbo. 

At length I arranged that eight of the new lev}^, together with 
the native blacksmith and several others from Fatiko, who were 
well known in the Madi country, should go to Fabbo (22 miles) 
with my letter to Abou Saood. The blacksmith would protect 
the irregulars by explaining their new position to any natives 
who might desire to molest them. 

I also sent a proclamation to be read publicly in the zareeba, 
summoning all subjects of the Khedive to declare their allegiance 
to the government. 

On the following day (6th August) the blacksmith and his 
people returned to Fabbo thoroughly disgusted. Upon their 
arrival near the zareeba of Abou Saood they had cried out to 
the slave-hunters that they had brought " a letter from the 
Pacha to Abou Saood ! " The slave-hunters had replied with a 
well-known form of abuse in that country, and had immediately 
fired a volley into the blacksmith and the eight men of their 
own people ! 

The blacksmith and his natives had lost no time in running 
back to Fatiko ; and the eiglit irregulars having thrown them- 
selves on the ground, had (the blacksmith supposed) at length 
explained who they were. 

The patience and forbearance that I was obliged to assume 
were far more trying to my feelings than the march from 
Masindi. ^ 



E E 2 



420 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV. 



It has always been an intense satisfaction to me that T had 
reliable witnesses to every incident of the expedition; other- 
wise, I might perhaps have been suspected of some prejudice 
against Abou Saood and certain Egyptian authorities that, un- 
known to myself, might have discoloured the true aspect of 
affairs. I can only refer to Lieutenant Baker, R.N., and that 
gallant officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, and many 
others, including all soldiers and servants who belonged to the 
detachment at Fatiko. 

These persons subsequently gave their evidence, which they 
will be ready at all times to repeat. 

On 7th August, at about 5 p.m., Abou JtSaood appeared with 
about forty of his men. lie was afraid to enter my camp 
without a second assurance in writing that he should not be 
made prisoner. 

Of course he swore that he had not given orders to fire at me; 
and he declared that his people of Fatiko had only fired because 
they were afraid that the natives who had accompanied me were 
about to attack them. 

I asked him, " If that were the case, why had they not com- 
municated with me, as I vv^as only ninety yards distant "? " He 
said his people had not fired at the government troops, but only 
at the natives who were upon the rock. 

He could not quite explain in that case "how it was that 
1,000 natives perched upon the rock close together, had escaped 
without a man being wounded, while not only were seven of the 
government troops Imocked down by bullets, but the huts and 
furniture of our camp, including boxes in the magazine, &c., 
had been completely riddled with balls." He then began to lay 
the blame on AVat-el-Mek, and even had the audacity to declare 
that " he had nothing to do with slaves, but that he could not 
restrain his people from kidnapping." I never heard any human 
being pour out such a cataract of lies as this scoundrel. His 
plausibility and assurance were such that I stood aghast ; and 
after he had delivered a long speech, in which he declared that 
" he was the innocent victim of adverse circumstances, and that 
every one was against him," I could merely reply b}'' dismissing 
him Avith the assurance that there was " only one really good and 
honest man in the world, who invariably spoke the truth ; this 
man was Ahoic Saood. All other men were liars." 

On the following morning Abou Saood came to take leave. 
He pretended to devote himself to my service, and declared that 
he should now at once return to Fabbo and organize the best of 



Chap, xxiv.] 



FLIGHT OF ABOU SAOOD. 



421 



his people into au irregular corps for the government, and he 
should act with energy as my vakeel, and assist me in every 
manner possible. He begged me not to believe a word that any 
one might say except himself, and he swore by the eyes and 
head of the Prophet (this was his favourite oath whenever he 
told the biggest lie) that there was no one so true to me as he, 
which he would prove by his acts. He then went back to 
Fabbo. 

This is the last time that I ever saw Abou Saood. He took 
200 men upon his arrival at Fabbo, and after having told his 
men to cut the throat of the sheik Werdella, who was a prisoner 
in the Fabbo camp under my special orders for protection, he 
went straight to Gondokoro to his friend Raouf Bey. 

This officer, who commanded at head-quarters during my 
absence, although he heard from Abou Saood's people of the 
attack made upon me at Fatiko, and Abou Saood had arrived 
Avithout either a passport or letters from myself, positively 
allowed him to depart to Khartoum. 

At Khartoum Abou Saood spread every conceivable false 
report. Thence he travelled to Cairo, expressly to complain to 
the Khedive's government of the manner in which he had been 
treated by m.e. 

Thus the greatest slave-trader of the White Nile, who was so 
closely connected with the Soudan government that he was a 
tenant who had rented a country which did not belong- to 
Egypt, now applied to that government for protection against 
my interference with his murders, kidnapping, and pillaging, 
which were the accompaniments of his slave-hunting in Central 
Africa. 

The fact of this renowned slave-hunter having the audacity to 
appeal to the Egyptian authorities for assistance, at once exhibits 
the confidence that the slave-traders felt in the moral support of 
certain official personages Avho represented public opinion in 
their hatred to the principal object of the expedition. 

The various links in the chain which united the interests of 
Abou Saood with certain officers who were opposed to the spirit 
of the enterprise will be at once perceived. 

From the very commencement, this man had been the chief 
intriguer who had endeavoured to ruin the expedition. He had 
fraternized v/ith the Baris when they were at open war with the 
government. He had incited the tribes to attack me, and at 
length his own companies had fired at me by his orders. He 
noio sought the p)yot('.ctlon of the Egypticui government at Cairo. 



422 



IS3IAILIA. 



[chap. xxiv. 



Y\(i sliall now leave Aboii Saood in Cairo, where lie spread 
the false report of the massacre of Lady Baker and myself, which 
reached England and appeared in the newspapers in April 1873. 

After Abon Saood's departnre from Fabbo, the influence of 
Wat-el-Mek began to be felt, and many men flocked to the 
government standard. X evertheless, that station was a scene 
of anarchy. The slave-hunters were divided among themselves. 
The party that followed Wat-el-]Mek were nearly all Soudanis, 
like himself, but the Arabs were split up into companies, each 
of which had elected a separate leader. This dissension was 
exactly wdiat I desired, and I played the game accordingly. As 
I have before stated, I wished to avoid physical force. 

Ali Genninar, whom I had engaged at Masindi, was an excel- 
lent fellow, and beforo Abou Saood deserted the country, lie 
had been the first man to arrive at Fatiko and unite with the 
government. He now collected sixty-five men^ whom I at once 
enrolled, and having given them their government flags, I 
started them off without delay to support Eionga in. Unyoro, 
and recalled Abd-el-Kader and liis troops to Fatiko. At the 
same time I sent Piionga many valuable presents. 

There were several terrible scoundrels at Fabbo, among whom 
was Salini-AVat-lrlowah, who, together with Laziin, had threat- 
ened to shoot I\lajor Abdullah in his own camp during my 
absence in Unyoro. 

I had Lazini in irons at Fatiko, but Salini-AVat-HoAvah had 
escaped on the day of attack. This man Salim was the head of 
the greatest villains at Fabbo, and he and his band of about one 
hundred men dail}' sallied out of the zareeba and i^lundered and 
burnt the neighbourhood in open defiance of Wat-el-]\Iek. 

AVhen these ruffians captured women, they now cut their 
throats and threw them into the Un-y-Ame river, explaining to 
the natives that they defied me to '"liberate" them when their 
throats were out. 

Every day the natives flocked to me from Fabbo with the 
most dreadful tales of atrocities. 

The time had now arrived when I could make the move that 
I felt sure would reduce the country to order. 

The slave-hunters were in this position. I had sent Ali 
Genninar with sixty-five men to Unyoro, 200 liad gone off with 
Abou Saood, 100 reprobates clung to Salim- AVat-Howah, and 
the remainder were true to AVat-el-Mek. 

I therefore sent a message to Fabbo, which AVat-el-^Mek would 
make public in the zareeba : " that, having received daily com- 



OHAP. XXIV,} EXPLOIT OF; SALIM-¥v AT-HOWAH. 



plaints from the natives of outrages committed by SalinvWat- 
Howah and his company, it was my intention in forty-eight 
hours to visit Fabbo with the troops, together with the native 
witnesses to the outrages complained of." ^ 

I ordered " all those men who had enlisted ; in the government 
service, together with all others who were true to the Khedive, to 
retire from the Fabbo station to Faloro : .thus Fabbo alone wonld 
represent the malcontents." 

I felt sure that the dissension which; had ^existed ' among the 
various parties would now break out anew, and that. SaKm-Wat^- 
Howah, fearing a personal visit from me, would follow the example 
of his master, Abou Saood, and fly from the country. 

The hint that I had given respecting, the retirement of thq 
loyal people to Faloro, so that Fabbo would represent the dis- 
loyal, would be sufficient warning that physical force was intended^ 
should other means fail. , 

The day upon ^vhich Wa,t-el-Mek published the proclamation 
was one of general consternation in .Fabbo. • 

Wat-el-Mek left the station with his Soudanis. 
; Salim-AYat-Howah and his men suddenly sprang upon tlie 
vakeel, Suleiman, and having secured him, while others broke 
ppen the powder-magazine,. they possessed ' themselves of three 
cases (1,500 rounds) of ball-cartridge, together with the flags of 
the station. With this prize they marched out of the zareeba 
with their slaves, who carried their luggage, and took the road 
towards Latooka, about nine, days' march distant. 

Without firing a shot, I had thus won the game. AH the bad 
people had found the country too hot for them. The remaining 
men received certificates, and raised the corps of irregulars to 312' 
ofiicers and men ; all of whom v/ere nominally .under Wat-el-Mek, 
although Ali Genninar held a separate command in Unyoro. I 
now strengthened his party by a reinforcement. 
' From this date, the victory was gained, and I could only thank 
God for the great success that had attended all my efi'orts. The 
slave-hunting was nowat an end throughout an immense district, 
as the slave-hunters had ceased to exist south of Gondokoro. 
Excepting Unyoro, the days of bloodshed were past. The " Forty 
Thieves," who had so gallantly stood by me through every diffi- 
culty, never again had an enemy before them. I was devoutly, 
thankful for days of peace. ^ 

^ All readers will share my deep regret, that since my departure from 
Central Africa this gallant body of men, together with the French officer iu. 



424 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV 



My task was now full of pleasure and gratification. I had 
established perfect confidence among the natives throughout the 
large country of Shooli. The Lii'a tribe had declared their alle- 
giance, and we had friends upon all sides. 

I had as usual planted gardens at Fatiko, which were flourish- 
ing. The natives no longer concealed their stores of corn ; but 
dancing and rejoicing had taken the place of watchfulness and 
insecurity. 

The children and women flocked to our camp ; and marketing 
upon a large scale was conducted without a squabble. The two 
good men, Shooli and Gimoro, v\dio were daily visitors, assured 
me that there was only one feeling throughout the country, of 
gratitude and good-will. This was a great reward to me for the 
many difficulties we had undergone ; but now^ that the calm days 
of peace had arrived, I looked back with keen regret upon the 
good men that I had lost, especially to the memory of poor Mon- 
soor. There was no person who would have enjoyed my success 
so much as that worthy man. 

It is now time to speak of Suleiman and the party who had 
left Masindi on 23rd May with the post for Fatiko, together with 
the 300 Unyoro carriers who Avere to have transported Abdullah's 
detachment to Foweera. 

The letter (concealed in a package) that I had sent to Eddrees, 
with orders that "the party might return at once to Fatiko 
should they suspect foul play," had reached them before they had 
crossed the Victoria ]N'ile. 

Mohammed, the Cairo dragoman, had strongly suspected 
treachery, owing to the unaccountable tardiness of the natives in 
pushing straight for Fatiko. Every day messengers had arrived 
from Masindi, and others had been returned in reply by the sheik 
Pittia, who had charge of the 300 Unyoro carriers. 

When my letter had been received, Mohammed advised 
Eddrees to return at once to Masindi ; but the latter, finding 
himself about fifty miles on the journey, concluded that it would 
be better to continue the march. 

command, ^Monsieur Linaut de Bellefonds, fell victims tq a surprise by the 
Baris in the district of Moogi. Colonel Gordon, who was eLis:aged in towing 
a steamer through the rapids, had sent Linaut de Bellefonds with forty 
sniders to make a reconnaissance in the innnediate neighbourhood, as the 
Moogi natives had become hostile. The force was supplied with thirty 
rounds of ball-cartridge in their pouches together with two boxes (1000 
rounds) of spare ammunition. Only four soldiers escaped to tell the tale 
of destruction. 



CHAP. XXIV.] STORY OF THE POST FOR FATIKO. 



425 



They had delayed so many days on the road, that the stock of 
flour intended for the whole journey would have failed, had they 
not spared their supply, and fed upon potatoes whenever they 
halted near cultivated ground. 

On one occasion, a number of their men had as usual gone off 
to forage, and were employed in digging sweet potatoes, when 
they were suddenly attacked by the natives concealed in the higli 
grass, and eleven men were speared ; five of my troops, and six 
of the irregulars. Fortunately some of these men had fired their 
muskets before they died, and the reports alarmed the remainder 
of the party, who Vv^ere in a small village. There was not a 
native to be seen, but the drums and horns were sounding, and 
as the Victoria 'NUg was close at hand, they considered it would 
be advisable to cross the river before the natives should attack 
them in force. 

It was necessary to release Suleiman, who was secured in a 
sheba. This man had been com mitted to the charge of Moham- 
med. Before Mohammed cut the raw hide strap which secured 
the forked pole, he made Suleiman swear by the prophet not to 
escape, but that he would deliver himself up to Major Abdullah 
at Fatiko. 

Tile party, now reduced to twenty-five men, immediately 
started. Upon arrival at the banks of the river, they liappenei 
to come suddenly upon a native, whom they seized. 

They soon observed a canoe on the other side of the river, in 
which were two men. They now made an arrangement for 
the capture of the canoe, which was to them a case of life or 
death. 

The prisoner was dressed in the usual flowing robe of bark- 
cloth. His hands were tied behind him, and one of the party 
who could speak the language now concealed himself behind the 
bark-cloth robe, and holding the native tightly by the arms, he 
threatened him with instant death unless he called the two 
natives in the canoe. 

At first he hesitated, but fearing the knife at his back, the point 
of which just pricked him to let him know that it was ready, he 
shouted to the men in the boat. 

Say you have a number of plantains, and you want to take 
them across the river," whispered his invisible prompter from 
behind. 

The natives in the canoe hesitated. " Say you will give them 
each a bunch of plantains if they will ferry you over," again 
whispered the cunning Arab. 



426 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV, 



The cauoe now j^iislied off from the bank, and paddled towards 
the apparently solitary native. 

The irregulars were concealed in the high grass close to the 
bank, and as the canoe touched the ehore, they shot the two 
natives dead, and immediately secured it. 

They now unlashed the arms of the prisoner, and insisted upon 
his paddling the canoe across the river. Two journeys were 
necessary. The first was successful, and the regular troops, 
together with the post and Suleiman and others, were safely 
landed. During the second journey, as the canoe was passing 
a rock above some dangerous rapids, the native suddenly upset 
the boat by throwing his weight quickly to one side, and plunged 
the whole party in the river. Some of them were carried over 
the cataracts and drowned. The others, including Ali Genninar, 
were good swimmers, and they reached the shore. 

Although the irregulars thoroughly knew the country, they 
now found themselves in the immense wilderness that separates 
Unyoro from the Shooli and Madi tribes. 

In this sea of high grass they wandered for some days, lost ; 
until they at length discovered the regular path, and, after great 
suffering, reached Fatiko. 

Eddrees, who had been appointed vakeel, became a traitor, and 
upon meeting Abou Saood and his people, who had come out to 
receive the party upon their arrival, he cried out, " Look sharp 
for your neck, Abou Saood : the Pacha has sent an order to 
arrest you." 

A short time after this, Eddrees died of dysentery. Suleiman 
behaved in an honourable manner. Instead of going into 
Abou Saood's camp, he immediately presented ' himself before 
Major Abdullah, and confessed his sins, acknowledging that he 
had been justly punished. He surrendered himself into the hands 
of the commandant, according to the oath he had taken on the 
road. 

Although ^.lajor Abdullah had now received the post, together 
Avith my orders, he thought it advisable, considering the danger 
of a collision v/ith Abou Saood's people, to allow Suleiman lii^ 
liberty on parole, and he had returned to ]iis position of vakeel 
at Fabbo. Ali Genninar had at once offered to continue his 
duties as a government soldier. 

A few days after the arrival of the post, the news was brought 
of the battle of Masindi, and that our escape from Unyoro was 
impossible. 

The almost open hostility of Abou Saood and his numerous 



CIHAP. XXIV.] 



CLEMEN'CY. 



427 



forces liad paralyzed Major Abdullah, who, fearing the responsi- 
bility of an outbreak, Ivept quiet, and trusted in Providence, until 
I had fortunately appeared. 

There can be no doubt that the plan laid by Kabba Rega for 
securing the arms and effects of Major Abdullah and his detach- 
ment broke down through a premature attack on the part of the 
natives, who had neither the courage nor the patience to go to 
Fatiko on the chance of success in such a distant enterprise. . 

Suleiman had written me a letter imploring forgiveness. Wat- 
el-Mek arrived at Fatiko after the seizure of the ammunition by 
Salim-Wat-Howah, and he begged pardon for Suleiman, assuring 
me that he was truly penitent ; that the devil had misled him, 
and Abou Saood was that devil. If I would grant him a free 
pardon, no man would be more faithful ; and the irregular force 
now established would be delighted at such an act of clemency. 

Although Suleiman was a great rufhan, he was like everybody 
else in that respect. If I had refused the enlistment of all im- 
moral characters in the middle of Africa, I should have had what 
is now known in England as a " skeleton regiment." I had 
already punished him severely. In every case of defiance of the 
government, the people had seen that so small an organized force 
as 200 regulars, amongst innumerable enemies, and without any 
communication with head-quarters, had been able to beat down 
and crush every enemy, whetlier native or rebel. In times of 
real weakness, it is frequently necessary to be severe, that a grave 
example may establish authority ; but after victory and succesSj 
I felt that an act of clemency might, even among half savages, 
be more binding than fetters. 

I therefore told Wat-el-Mek that I could not give any promise 
until Suleiman should present himself before me at Fatiko. It 
was his duty to deliver himself up as a prisoner upon parole. 

On 3rd October Wat-el-Mek arrived at Fatiko accompanied by 
Suleiman, who came to surrender. 

The jDrisoner was dressed in a filthy brown woollen cloak, and 
his head was covered with a greasy and almost black tarboosh : 
he had the appearance of having slept on a dust-heap. This beg- 
garly outside was a token of repentance and humiliation. 

Suleiman was brought before me, and he immediately rushed 
forward and knelt to kiss my feet, exhibiting at the same time 
considerable emotion ; which surprised me, as he was notorious 
as a stern, hard-hearted Kurd. 

I said a few words to him, explaining that he must not thinly; 



428 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXIV. 



me impenetrable if I doubted bis sincerity, as I bad been already 
deceived, after baving sliown bim mucb kindness ; at tbe same 
time I did not wisb to exert severity, if I could win bim to obedi- 
ence by good advice.^ I offered bim a free pardon if be would 
swear upon tbe Koran fidelity to tbe Kbedive. Sbould be deceive 
me, and become a rebel after tbis, be knew tbe consequences. 

Suleiman now declared, and swore upon tbe Koran, tbat be 
bad acted only upon orders be bad received from Abou Saood. 
It was be wbo, in spite of my written command tbat tbe sbeik 
Werdella sbould be spared, bad ordered two of bis slaves to take 
bim from tbe Fabbo zareeba, and to cut bis tbroat. 

Botb Wat-elOdek and Suleiman, as late vakeels of Abou 
Saood, swore to tbeir written evidence, to wbicb tbey attacbed 
tbeir seals in tbe presence of witnesses, tbat Abou Saood bad 
given orders to bis vakeels to barry tbe country and to capture 
slaves and cattle ; tbat none of the people employed by bim 
received wages in money, but tbat tbey were invariably paid in 
slaves, valued at a certain sum. 

" All tbe opposition tbat I bad met with bad been caused by 
Abou Saood." 

Suleiman, baving received a written pardon, made bis salaam 
and retired. An bour later be was wasbed beautifully clean, 
and was gorgeously dressed in a Turkisb costume of ligbt blue 
woollen clotb, trimmed witli gold and black braid, witb a new 
tarboosb, a bandsome silk sbawl in tbick folds around bis waist, 
and bis sabre dangling by bis side. Tbis sudden metamorphosis 
from dirt and ashes to dazzling attire was symbolical of disgrace 
and humiliation succeeded by pardon and restoration to office. 

Suleiman was to continue as vakeel of the Fabbo station, 
under tbe command of Wat-el-Mek. In the magazines of Fabbo 
were 3,200 elephants' tusks. These, T bad no doubt, would be 
confiscated by tbe Khedive. 

A short time before the arrival of Suleiman, an extraordinary 
incident bad occurred at the Fatiko camp. 

One morning, when the bugles blew the usual call, it was dis- 
covered that tbe prisoner Lazim had escaped, although be bad 
been secured in irons. 

Fortunately, it had rained slightly during tbe night ; thus it 
would not be difficult to track bis footsteps. I immediately sent 
for Sbooli and Gimoro, whose village was only 700 yards distant, 

^ Suleiman always remained faithful from that mo\nent, and became a 
dependable officer. 



CHAP. XXIV.] ESCAPE OF THE PRISONER LAZIM. 



429 



to whom I promised a reward of a cow, should they succeed in 
capturing the escaped felon. They quickly got upon the track of 
the fugitive, and followed like bloodhounds. 

I have already described this fellow Lazim as having been one 
of the ringleaders in the rebellion of the slave-hunters and he 
was almost as notorious a character as Ali Hussein. He was 
originally himself a slave, and had escaped from his master at 
Khartoum many years ago, after wliich he became one of the 
most determined slave-hunters. 

I felt sure that it would have been impossible for him to have 
escaped without the connivance of the sentry. I therefore ordered 
all the soldiers that had formed the various night-guards over the 
prisoner to be brought before me. As they stood in line, I simply 
told them that " the prisoner had escaped, and that one of the 
men now present was guilty of aiding and abetting. I could dis- 
cover the fellow who had thus disgraced himself as a soldier by 
simply looking at his face." 

Having carefully examined the countenance of each man, I felt 
confident that I had fixed upon the guilty j^erson, as one indi- 
vidual quailed beneath my eye, and r*" length looked down upon 
the ground. This happened to be one of the worst characters in 
the force. I therefore at once ordered him to be flogged. 

During the infliction of punishment, this fellow not only con- 
fessed that he had assisted in the escape of Lazim, but he made 
a clean breast of several other delinquencies. He was accordingly 
put in irons, and condemned to break stones for the new roads. 

In the evening Shooli returned, but without the prisoner. 
Before he gave his report, he begged me " not to be angry." He 
then described that he had tracked Lazim's footsteps for a long 
way along the Eabbo road until he had at length met several 
natives, who were coming towards him. These men declared that 
they had met Lazim, who had managed to get rid of his irons ; 
but as he was unarmed, they knew that he must have run away. 
They accordingly asked him for his pass from me, as it was well 
known that I never allowed a man to go alone without a written 
order. 

Lazim of course was unable to produce a paper. The natives, 
therefore, insisted upon his returning with them to Fatiko, and 
upon his remonstrating they seized him. A struggle ensued, and 
they at length knocked him upon the head with an iron mace and 
killed him. Thus ended one of the greatest scoundrels, and the 
government was relieved by his escape from custody, which had 
so quickly terminated his career. 



430 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXV. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

I SEND TO GOXDOKORO FOR REINFORCEMENTS. 

O^r 25tli November, 1872, I started Wat-el-^Iek to Gondokoro 
with a force of irregulars, in addition to a captain and twenty 
regular troops in charge of the post. His party consisted of 
100 men. 

The fleet from Gondokoro had left on. the 3rd of Xoyember, 
1871 : thus it was natural to suppose that reinforcements had 
arrived from Khartoum, according to my written instructions 
on that date. I now wrote to Raouf Bey at head-quarters, to 
send up 200 men under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel 
Tayib Agha, of the Soudani regiment. I also wrote for a 
supply of cattle, as my stock had dwindled to a small herd of 
milch cows, and the people at Fabbo had no meat except the 
flesh of any game that might be killed. 

A short time after the departure of Wat-el-Mek and his party 
for Gondokoro, Suleiman the vakeel arrived from Fabbo with 
the intelligence that a large body of Abou Saood's slave-hunters, 
including 3,000 Makkarika cannibals, had arrived on the Mle 
from the far west, with the intention of taking the ivory from 
Fabbo ! 

It appeared that Abou Saood had gone from Gondokoro to 
his station at the Bohr, upon the AYhite Xile ; from thence he 
had sent a party with a letter to Atroosh, the vakeel of the 
Makkarika station, about 200 miles distant, with orders that he 
should send a powerful force, with sufficient carriers, to take 
the ivory by violence from Fabbo. 

Abou Saood had not expected that the people whom he had 
left at that station would have enlisted under the government 
standard. Thus he imagined they would at once fraternize with 
the invading force. 

The natives of the country Avere thoroughly alarmed, as the 
cannibals were eating the children of the Koshi country on the 
west bank of the Xile, in about 3° latitude ; and should they 
cross the river, the ]\Iadis and Shoolis expected the same fate. 

I ordered Suleiman (who had received a letter from Atroosh) 
to take a letter from me to Ali Emmeen, the vakeel of the in- 
vading force, instructing him to present himself before me at 



CHAP. XXV.] 



THE MAKKARIKA CANNIBALS. 



431 



Fatiko instantly with an escort of liis own people, limited to 
twenty-five men. At the same time I gave instructions to the 
natives npon no account to furnish boats for a larger party. 

After some days' absence Suleiman returned, but without Ali 
Emmeen, v.dio was afraid to appear. This vakeel had received 
my verbal assurance from Suleiman that, should any persons 
attempt the passage of the river without my permission, they 
would be instantly shot; at the same time, if he wished to con- 
vey the ivory to Gondokoro by the usual route, he could do so 
with an escort of regulars. 

This was an awkward position for Ali Emmeen, who had 
expected to find allies at Eabbo, but who now found a faithful 
corpr3 of irregulars with Suleiman at their head acting under my 
orders. 

He accordingly took 100 men and returned about 180 miles 
to the camp of Atroosh for fresh instructions. The 3,000 Mak- 
karika caimibals were left with the remainder of his company on 
the west bank of the Mle to feed upon the natives of Koshi 
until his return. 

Ever}-^ day people arrived at Eatiko with horrible reports of 
the cannibals, who were -devouring the children in the Koshi 
district. Spies went across the river and brought me every 
intelligence. It appeared that the 3,000 Makkarikas had been 
engaged by Ali Emmeen under the pretence that they were " to 
go to Fatiko and fight a chief called ' the Pacha,' who had enor- 
mous flocks and herds, together with thousands of beautiful 
women and other alluring spoil ; " but they had not heard that 
they were to carry 3,000 elephants' tusks to the station of 
Atroosh. 

My spies now told them the truth. " Fight the Pacha ! " 
they exclaimed : " do you not know who he is? and that he 
could kill you all like fowls, as he did the people of Ali Husseini 
He has no cows for you to carry off, but he has guns that are 
magic, and which load from behind instead of at the muzzle 1 " 

This was a terrible disappointment to the deluded Makkarikas, 
which at once spread dissension among them, when they found 
that they had been cajoled in order to transport the heavy loads 
©f ivory. 

A providential visitation suddenly fell upon them. The 
gmall-pox broke out and killed upwards of 800 bloodthirsty 
cannibals who had been devouring the country. 

Tlie Nile was reported to be about six miles in width opposite 
their station, in about 3° latitude, which is only a few miles 



432 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXV, 



from the Albert x^'yanza. This visitation of small-pox created 
a xDanic which entirely broke np and dispersed the invading 
force, and defeated their plans. 

We were now in frequent communication with Eionga, who 
was always represented in my Fatiko camp by the presence of 
one of his sheiks and several men. 

Ali Genninar had made a combined attack upon Kabba Eega, 
together with Eionga and the Langgo tribe, and had utterly 
defeated him. His people were now deserting him in great num- 
bers, and were flocking to the winning side. Kabba Eega had 
taken to flight, and was supposed to be hiding in the neighbour- 
hood of Chibero, on the borders of the Albert i^'yanza. 

M'tese, the king of Uganda, had invaded Unyoro from the 
south, and having heard of Kabba Eega's treachery towards 
myself, he had sent an army of 6,000 men under his general, 
Congow, to be placed at my disposal. 

This friendship was the result of my diplomacy in having sent 
him valuable presents from Masindi, together with a letter 
warning him against Kabba Eega, who wished to prevent the 
goods of the north from reaching Uganda, in order that he 
might monopolize the trade in Unyoro. 

The subsequent conduct of Kabba Eega had proved this 
accusation, and M'tese had heard with rage and dismay that I 
had been forced to burn all the numerous goods, which other- 
wise would have j^assed to him in Uganda. 

On the 25th December the fort of Fatiko was completed. 
This Avas commenced on the 28th August; thus my men liacl 
been four months engaged in the work, owing to the extreme 
hardness of the subsoil, which was a compact gravel resembling 
concrete. 

The three faces of the fort measured 455 yards of fosse and 
earthen rampart. The fosse was eight feet wide, eight feet 
deep, and the face of the rampart was protected by chevaux-de- 
frise of sharpened stakes. The west base of the fort was the 
rock citadel, which commanded the surrounding country. Upon 
this solid foundation I had built an excellent powder-magazine 
and store, of solid masonry. This fire-proof building was roofed 
with a thick cement of clay from the white-ant hills, that had 
been tempered for some weeks and mixed with chopped straw. 

All my work was completed, and I could do nothing until the 
reinforcements should arrive from Gondokoro. The natives paid 
their trifling corn-tax with great good humour, and they gener- 
ally arrived in crowds of several hundreds, singing and dancing, 



OHAP. XXV.] COMMENCEMENT OF HUNTING SEASON. 433 



with, large baskets of tuUaboon upon their heads, with which 
they filled our rows of granaries. 

The grass was tit to burn, and the hunting season had fairly 
commenced. All the natives now devoted themselves to this 
important pursuit. The chase supplies the great tribe of Shooli 
with clothing. Although the women are perfectly naked, every 
man wears the skin of an antelope slung across his shoulders, so 
arranged as to be tolerably decent. The number of animals that 
are annually destroyed may be imagined from the amount of the 
skin-clad population. 

Although the wilderness between XJnyoro and Fatiko is unin- 
habited, in like manner with extensive tracts between Fabbo 
and Fatiko, every portion of that apparently abandoned country 
is nominally possessed by individual proprietors, who claim a 
right of game by inheritance. 

This strictly conservative principle has existed from time im- 
memorial, and may perhaps suggest to those ultra-radicals who 
would introduce communistic principles into England, that the 
supposed original equality of human beings is a false datum for 
their problem. There is no such thing as equality among human 
beings in their primitive state, any more than there is equality 
among the waves of the sea, although they may start from the 
same level of the calm. 

In a stale of savagedom, the same rules of superiority which 
advance certain individuals above the general level in civilized 
societies will be found to exert a natural influence. Those who 
become eminent will be acknowledged by their inferiors. The 
man who is clever and wise in council will be listened to : the 
warrior who leads with courage and judgment will be followed 
in the battle ; the hunter who excels in tracking up the game 
will be sent to the front when the party are on the blood-track. 
In this way superiority will be generally admitted. Superiority 
of intellect will naturally tend to material advancement. The 
man of sense will gather more than the fool. That which he 
gathers becomes property, which must be acknowledged by 
society as an individual right that must be protected by laws. 

In tribes where government is weak, there is a difficulty in 
enforcing laws, as the penalty exacted maybe resisted; but even 
amidst those wild tribes there is a force that exerts a certain 
moral influence among the savage as among the civilized : that 
force is public opinion. 

Thus, a breach of the game-laws would be regarded by the 
public as a disgrace to the guilty individual, precisely as an 

F F 



434 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. sxv. 



act of poaching would damage tlie cliaracter of a civilized 
person. 

The rights of game are among the first rudiments of property. 
Man in a primitive state is a hunter, depending for his clothing 
upon the skins of v^'ild animals, and upon their flesh for his sub- 
sistence ; therefore the beast that he kills upon the desert must 
be his property ; and in a public hunt, should he be the first to 
wound a wild animal, he vrill have gained an increased interest 
or share in the flesh by having reduced the chance of its escape. 
Thus public opinion, Y\'hicli we must regard as the foundation of 
equity, rewards him with a distinct and special right, which 
becomes law. 




Fort Fatiko — Ground I'lan. 



It is impossible to trace the origin of game-laws in Central 
Africa, but it is nevertheless interesting to find that such 
rights are generally acknowledged, and that large tracts of unin- 
habited country are possessed by individuals which are simply 
manorial. These rights are inherited, descending from father to 
the eldest son. 

When the grass is sufficiently dry to burn, the whole thoughts 



OHAP. XXV.] GENERAL HUNTING ARRANGEMENTS. 



435 



of the community arc centred upon sport ; but should a person 
set fire to the grass belonging to another proprietor, he would be 
at once condemned by pubhc opinion, and he would (if such 
establishments existed) be certainly expelled from his club. 

There Avas no more work undone in my charming Fatiko 
station. The roads from the three gates v/ere so far comjDleted 
as to form respectable approaches. The gardens had produced 
abundantly, and the troops were all in excellent health and good 
discipline. On Mondays and Fridays they were exercised at 
light-infantry drill for several hours. Every man had his post, 
which he occupied like lightning when the bugle suddenly 
sounded the alarm. The ''Forty Thieves" heid the rock 
citadel, as they could fire over the heads of those in the camp 
without fear of accident. The night alarm sounded unexpect- 
edly, and as I vrent the rounds, every man was at his quarters 
without a whisper. The cleanliness and general order of the 
camp were perfect. 

I now associated with the natives as a hunter. It was in 
this capacity that I had first Avon their hearts many years ago. 
We were so short of meat that I began to feel the necessity that 
first turned the hand of savage man against the beasts of the 
forest. 

The chase throughout the Shooli country was carried on as a 
profession, and was conducted by general rules under an admir- 
able organization. 

The favourite method of hunting was by means of nets. 
Every man in the country was provided with a net of strong 
cord. This was twelve yards long, and about eleven feet deep, 
if stretched to its maximum. The meshes were about six inches 
square. There was no promiscuous net-hunting, but the chief 
of the district organized the chase in the following manner : — 

The big nogara was sounded, and the news rapidly spread 
that an assembly was desired at the village of their headman. 
At Fatiko the chief was Wat-el- A joos Omare. A few hours 
after the drum had summoned the headmen, natives might be 
seen approaching from all sides to the appointed spot at which 
the council was to be held. 

After much talking, it was at length decided that the hunt 
should take place upon the manors of certain individuals whose 
property was contiguous. The day of the hunt was arranged, 
and the headmen of the villages retired to make the neces- 
sary arrangements. 

Should a chief be hospitably disposed, he would frequently 

F F 2 



436 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XXV. 



give a grand entertainment prior to tlie meet. On siicli occa- 
sions upwards of a thousand natives would arrive from different 
villages, in their full-dress costume, consisting of plumes of 
ostrich feathers, leopard-skin mantles, and tlieir faces painted a 
friglitful colour with fresh, cow-dung. On these occasions a 
large quantity of merissa was consumed, and one or two oxen 
were slaughtered, according to the wealth of the person Avho 
gave the festivity. 

The sorcerer w^as an important personage at such entertain- 
ments, as it was necessary to assure good luck by a variety of 
magic ceremonies, that would not only protect the hunters from 
accidents, but vrould also bring the wild animals direct into 
their nets. 

At length the day of the hunt had arrived, when several 
thousand people would collect at a certain rendezvous, about 
nine miles distant from Fatiko, on the Fabbo road, which is the 
best neighbourhood for game. 

At a little before 5 a.m. I started on my solitary but powerful 
horse, " Jamoos," accompanied by Lieutenant Baker and Colonel 
Abd-el-Kader, with a few soldiers of "The Forty." Gimoro 
and Shooli, who were renowned hunters, were always with me 
when shooting. These excellent men had an extraordinary 
affection for each other, and they were well known as insepar- 
ables — the one was rarely seen without the other. 

Descending the rocky terrace from the station at Fatiko, we 
were at once in the lovely, park-like glades, diversified by bold 
granite rocks, among which were scattered the graceful drooping 
acacias in clamps of dense foliage. 

Crossing the clear, rippling stream, we clambered up the steep 
bank on the opposite side, and, after a ride of about a mile and 
a half, we gained the water-shed, and commenced a gradual 
descent towards the west. 

AVe Avere now joined by numerous people, both men, -svomen, 
and children, all of whom were bent upon the hunt. 

The men carried their nets and spears ; the boys were also 
armed with lighter weapons, and the very little fellows carried 
tiny lances, all of which had been carefully shar^Dened for the 
expected game. 

The women were in great numbers, and upon that day the 
villages were quite deserted. Babies accompanied their mothers, 
strapped upon their backs Avith leathern bands, and protected 
from the weather by the usual tortoiso-like coverings of gourd- 
shells. Thus it may be imagined that the Shooli tribe were 



CHAP. XXV.] 



THE NETS ARE FIXED. 



437 



bom hunters, as they had accompanied tlie public hunts from 
their earliest infancy. 

My two boys, Saat and Bellaal, carried spare guns. These 
fine strong lads always attended me, and they had become use- 
ful gun-bearers. They were both plucky fellows. Little Amarn 
had been suffering for more than twelve months from an ulcer- 
ated leg ; therefore he was spared from unnecessary fatigue, and 
was the pet boy at home. 

As we proceeded, the number of natives increased, but there 
was no noise or loud talking. Every one appeared thoroughly 
to understand his duties. 

Having crossed the beautiful Un-y-Ame river, we entered the 
game country. Extensive prairies, devoid of forest, now 
stretched before us in graceful undulations to the base of dis- 
tant mountains. The country was watered by numerous clear 
streams, all of which drained into the main channel of the Un-y- 
Ame river, that became a roaring torrent during the wet season. 

"We now left the Eabbo path and struck off to our left for 
several miles, over ground that had been cleared by burning, 
which showed in many directions the crimson fruit of the wild 
ginger, growing half-exposed from the earth. This is a leathery, 
hard pod, about the size of a goose-egg, fdled with a semi-trans- 
parent pulp of a subacid flavour, with a delicious perfume 
between pine-apple and lemon-peel. It is very juicy and 
refreshing, and is decidedly the best wild fruit of Central Africa. 

The natives immediately collected a quantity, and we quickly 
pushed forward to the rendezvous, where, upon arrival, we found 
a great number of people were collected. 

A line of about a mile and a half was quickly protected by 
netting, and the natives were already in position. 

Each man had lashed his net to that of his neighbour and 
supported it with bamboos, which were secured with ropes fast- 
ened to twisted grass. Thus the entire net resembled a fence, 
that would be invisible to the game in the high grass, until, 
when driven, they should burst suddenly upon it. 

The grass was as dry as straw, and several thousand acres 
would be fired up to windward, which would compel the 
animals to run before the flames, until they reached the netting 
placed a few paces in front; where the high grass had been 
purposely cleared to resist the advance of the fire. 

Before each section of net, a man was concealed both within 
and without, behind a screen, simply formed of the long grasS' 
tied together at the top. 



438 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXV. 



The rule of sport decided that the proprietor of each section 
of netting of twelve yards length Avoiild be entitled to all game 
that should be killed vdthin tliese limits ; but that the owners 
of the manors which formed the hunt upon that day should 
receive a hind-leg from every animal captured. 

This was fair play ; but in such hunts a breach of the peace 
was of co]nmon occurrence, as a large animal might charge the 
net and receive a spear from the owner of the section, after 
which he might break back, and eventually be killed in the net 
of another hunter ; which would cause a hot dispute. 

The nets had been arranged with perfect stillness, and the 
men having concealed themselves, we were placed in positions 
on the extreme flanks with the rifles. 

Eifie-shooting was dangerous v\^ork, as the country Avas alive 
with people, who were hidden in ever}^ direction. 

I took my position behind a white-ant hill in front of a 
stream wliich rippled in a hollow about forty yards beneath me. 

Molodi had quite recovered from the wound he had received 
on 2nd August, and he carried the basket that contained our 
luncheon. This consisted of three bottles of milk and a few 
hard-boiled eggs, with a supply of salt and pepper. 

There is nothing so good as milk for support during a long 
day's work, provided it is used vrith water, in a proportion of 
one-third milk. A bottle of rich milk will therefore produce 
three bottles of wholesome drink. This is far preferable to the 
use of spirits, which are merely a temporary stimulant, and 
frecjuen'Jy are great enemies to good rifle-shooting. 

Molodi's basket was arranged with a white napkin over the 
contents. As such a colour would attract attention, I ordered 
him to conceal himself and his basket behind a neighbouring 
ant-hill. 

I>Ir. jiiaker was far away on my right ; and Abd-el-Ivader was 
upon the extreme right flank. 

Everything was ready, and men had already been stationed at 
regular intervals about two miles to windward, where they 
waited with their fire-stick for the appointed signal. 

A shrill whistle disturbed the silence. This signal was re- 
peated at intervals to AvnidAV ard. 

In a few minutes after the signal, a long line of separate thin 
pillars of smoke ascended into the blue sky, forming a band 
extending over about two miles of the horizon. 

The thhi pillars rapidly thickened, and became dense volumes, 
until at length they united, and formed a long black cloud of 



CHAP. XXV.] MOLODI RUNS FROM THE LION. 



439 



smoke that drifted before the wind over the bright yellow 
surface of the high grass. 

The natives were so thoroughly concealed, that no one would 
have supposed that a human being beside ourselves was in the 
neighbourliood. I had stuck a fev/ twigs into the top of the 
ant-hill to hide my cap ; and having cut out a step in the side 
for my feet at the required height, I waited in patience. 

The wind was brisk, and the lire travelled at about four miles 
an hour. We could soon hear the distant roar, as the great 
volume of flame shot high through the centre of the smoke. 

The natives had also lighted the grass a few hundred yards in 
our rear. 

Presently I saw a slate -coloured mass trotting along the face of 
the opposite slope, about 250 yards distant. I quickly made 
out a rhinoceros, and I was in hopes that he was coming 
towards me. Suddenly he turned to my right, and continued 
along the face of the inclination. 

Some of the beautiful leucotis antelope now appeared and 
cantered towards me, but halted when they approached the 
stream, and listened. The game understood the hunting as well 
as the natives. In the same manner that the young children 
went out to hunt with their parents, so had the wild animals 
been hunted togetlier Avith their parents ever since their birth. 

The leucotis now charged across the stream; at the same time 
a herd of hartebeest dashed past. I knocked over one, and with 
the left-hand barrel I wounded a leucotis. At this moment a 
lion and lioness, that had been disturbed by the fire in our rear, 
came bounding along close to where Molodi had been concealed 
with the luncheon. Away went Llolodi at a tremendous pace ! 
and he came rushing past me as though the lions were chasing 
him ; but they were endeavouring to escape themselves, and 
had no idea of attacking. 

I was just going to take the inviting shot, when, as my finger 
was on the trigger, I saw the head of a native rise out of the 
grass exactly in the line of fire ; then another head popped up 
from a native who had been concealed, and rather than risk an 
accident I allowed the lion to pass. In one magnificent bound 
it cleared the stream, and disappeared in the high grass. 

The fire was advancing rapidly, and the game was coming up 
fast. A small herd of leucotis crossed the brook, and I killed 
another, but the smoke had become so thick that I was nearly 
blinded. It was at length impossible to see ; the roar of the fire 
and the heat were territic, as the blast swept before the advancing 



440 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXV. 



flames, and filled the air and eyes witli fine black aslies. I 
literally had to turn and run hard into fresher atmosphere to get 
a gasp of cool air, and to wipe my streaming eyes. Just as I 
emerged from the smoke, a leucotis came past, and received both 
the right and left bullets in a good place, before it fell. 

The fire reached the stream and at once expired. The wind 
swept the smoke on before, and left in view the velvety black 
surface, that had been completely denuded by the flames. 

The natives had killed many antelopes, but the rhinoceros 
had gone through their nets like a cobweb. Several buffaloes 
had been seen, but they had broken out in a different direction. 
Lieut. Baker had killed three leucotis, Abd-el-Kader had killed 
one, and had hit a native in the leg with a bullet, while aiming 
at a galloping antelope. I had killed five. 

I doctored the native, and gave him some milk to drink, and 
hhi friends earned him home. This was a very unfortunate 
accident, and from that day the natives gave Abd-el-Kader a 
wide berth. 

Most of the women Avere heavily laden with meat : the nets 
were quickly gathered up, and, with Avhistles blowing as a 
rejoicing, the natives returned homewards. 

The women were very industrious, and never wxnt home 
empty-handed ; but if some were unfortunate in their supply 
of meat, they gathered immense bundles of firewood, which 
they carried many miles upon their heads to their respective 
villages. . . . 

The time passed very happily at Fatiko, and the fact of my 
joining with the natives in their sports added to the confidence 
already established. 

I frequently went into their villages to smoke a pipe, and to 
chat with the people : this always pleased them, and the 
children generally crowded round me, as I never went empty- 
handed, but a few beads or other trifles were always forth- 
coming as presents. 

Gimoro had been very unfortunate in losing his children 
when young, and I understood that the mortality was very 
great among all infants from two years old to five. 

I attribute this to the absurd custom of public night nurseries. 
According to the population of the village, there are certain 
houses built upon pedestals or stone supports about three feet 
from the ground. In the clay wall of the circular building is a 
round hole about a foot in diameter ; this is the only aperture. 

At sunset, when the children have been fed, they are put to 



i 



OHAP. XSV.] 



HUNTING ACCIDENTS. 



441 



bed in the simplest manner, by being thrust headforemost 
through the hole in the wall, assisted, if refractory, by a smack 
behind, until the night nursery shall have received the limited 
number. The aperture is then stopped up with a bundle of 
grass if the nights are cool. 

The children lie together on the clay floor like a litter of 
young puppies, and breathe the foulest air until morning, at 
which time they are released from the suffocating oven, to be 
suddenly exposed to the chilly daybreak. Their naked little 
bodies shiver round a fire until the sun warms them, but the 
seeds of diarrhoea and dysentery have already been sown. 

It may be readily imagined that accidents frequently occur in 
the great hunts already described, as it is quite impossible to 
speculate upon the species of animal that may be driven into 
the net. A fine little lad of about eleven years was killed by a 
leopard within a mile of my Fatiko station. The grass had 
been fired, and the animals instinctively knew that they were 
pursued. 

The boy went to drink at a stream close to some high reeds, 
when a leopard pounced upon him without the slightest warn- 
ing. A native who was close to the spot rushed up to the rescue, 
and threw his spear with such dexterity that he struck the 
leopard through the neck while it had the boy in its mouth, 
killing it upon the spot. The boy was immediately brought to 
me, but the lungs were lacerated, and he died during the night. 

On another occasion five men were wounded (two fatally) by 
a lioness, which fought so gallantly that she at length escaped 
from her assailants with two spears in her body. 

I was not present on that occasion, but I have frequently 
admired the pluck of the Shooli natives, who attack every animal 
with the simple hunting-spear, which of course necessitates a 
close approach. 

On 30th December I went out with a few natives on the 
Fabbo road, simply to shoot in order to procure meat for the 
camp. We were about ten miles from the station, and the 
game was so wild on the open prairies that we foimd it impos- 
sible to approach \vithin shot. We had seen great numbers of 
the beautiful leucotis antelope (rather larger than a fine fallow 
buck), also hartebeest [Antelope huhalis), all of which had 
quitted the clean ground which had recently been burnt, and 
had retired to the high grass upon a long sloping undulation. 

Among our natives were two men who were the owners of 
the manor ; they therefore proposed that we should place the 



442 



IS3IAILIA. 



[chap. XXV. 



guns in position, wliile tliey sliould marcli up to ¦windward, and 
fire the grass in the usual manner. 

Lieutenant Baker was placed about 300 yards to my left, and 
Colonel Abd-el-Kader about 150 paces to my right. As we 
faced the high grass we had the ground clear at our backs, as 
the young herbage Avas just sprouting after the recent burning. 

As usual, I was concealed by a large ant-hill, behind Avhich, 
my two boys Saat and Bellaal squatted with my spare guns. 
About 100 yards before me, in a slight hollow, the grass was 
quite green, as the depression had until lately held water. This 
rank herbage would of course stop the fire upon its arrival from 
the sloping hdl-face. About forty yards from me the grass was 
high and dry. 

About half an hour after the guns were posted we heard the 
whistles, and shortly after, the smoke rose in various places, until 
at last a crescent of lire spread over the hill. The wind was very 
light, therefore the fire travelled slowly, and the game advanced 
at an easy pace. I now heard shots upon my left at the extreme 
flank, where I had posted a few of the best shots of the " Forty 
Thieves," including Ferritcli Ajoke. 

I saw the game breaking covert in herds of several hundreds 
in that direction. Presently Abd-el-Kader had a shot upon my 
right, and I observed several antelopes boimding along upon the 
clear space in our rear. 

I was not in luck, but I now saw a splendid buck leucotis 
walking quietly through the grass, and slowly descending the 
slope to the gieen lioilow, which would bring him straight 
towards me should he keep this direction. 

Just at that moment I saw a long yellow tail rise suddenly 
from the green hollow, and an instant later I saw a fine lion, 
with tail erect, that had evidently been disturbed by the ad- 
vancing fire. 

The lion was down wind of the buck leucotis, which was now 
close to the unseen enemy, and was just descending the bank 
which dipped into the green hollow : this would bring the 
antelope almost upon the lion's back. The two animals sud- 
denly appeared to touch each other as the leucotis jumped down 
the bank, and the lion sprang to one side, apparently as much 
startled as the antelope, wliich bounded off in another direction. 
The lion now disappeared in the high grass, with the head 
towards my position. 

I wliispered to my boys not to be afraid should it appear 
close to us, and at the same time I took the spai'c gun fioiM. 



OHAP. XXV.] THE WOUNDED LIONESS. 



44,3 



Bellaal, and laid it against tlie ant-liill to Lq in readiness. This 
was a breechloader, with buckshot cartridges for small antelopes. 

In a few minutes I heard a distinct rustling in the high grass 
before me. The two boys were squatting on the ground to my 
right. 

Presentl}^ a louder rustling in the grass, within forty yards in 
my front^ was followed by the head and shoulders of a large 
lioness, who apparently saw the two boys, and with her bril- 
liant eyes fixed, she advanced slowly towards them. 

jSTot wishing to allow a closer acquaintance, I aimed at her 
chest, and fired the " Dutchman." 

The lioness rolled completely over, backwards, and three 
times she turned convulsive somersaults, at the same time roar- 
ing tremendously; but to my astonishment she appeared to 
recover, and I immediately fired my left-hand barrel. At this 
she charged ia high bounds straight towards my two boys. 

I had just time to snatch up my spare gun and show myself 
from behind the ant-hill, when the lioness, startled by my sud- 
den appearance, turned, and I fired a charge of buck-shot into 
her hind-quarters as she disappeared in the high grass \ipon my 
right. 

I now heard her groaning in a succession of deep guttural 
sounds, within fifty yards of me. 

In a few minutes I heard a shot from Abd-el-Kader, and he 
shortly came to tell me that the wounded lioness, with her 
chest and shoulder covered with blood, had come close to his 
hiding-place ; he had fired, and had broken her ankle-joint, but 
she was still concealed in the grass. 

Shooli and Gimoro now came up with some of the natives, as 
they had heard the lioness roar, and feared some accident might 
have happene l. 

These were very plucky fellows, and they at once proposed 
to go close up and spear her in the grass, if I would back them 
up with the rifles. 

We arrived at the supposed spot, and after a search we dis- 
tinguished a yellowish mass within some withered reeds. 

Shooli now proposed that he should throw his spear, upon 
which the lioness would certainly charge from her covert and 
afford us a good shot, if the guns were properly arranged. 

I would not allow this, but I determiued to fire a shot at the 
yellow mass to bring her out, if every one would be ready to 
receive her. 

Lieutenant Baker was on my right, with a double-barrelled 



444 



ISMAILiA. 



[chap. XXV. 



express rifle that carried a Xo. 70 bullet. This minute projectile 
was of little use against the charge of a lion. 

I fired into the mass at about twenty yards' distance. 

The immediate reply was a determined charge, and the en- 
raged animal came bounding towards us with tremendous roars. 
The natives threw their spears but missed her. !Mr. Baker fired, 
but neither he nor a left-hand barrel from the " Dutchman " 
could check her. Everybody had to run, and I luckily snatc hed 
a breechloading Xo. 12 smooth-bore loaded with ball from a 
panic-stricken lad, and rolled her over with a shot in the chest 
when she was nearly in the midst of us. 

She retreated with two or tliree bounds to her orighial covert. 

I had now reloaded the Dutchman," and having given 
orders that every one should keep out of the way, and be 
ready, I went close up to the grass with Shooli, and quickly 
discovered her. She was sitting up like a dog, but was looking 
in the opposite direction, as though expecting an enemy in that 
quarter. 

I was within twelve 3^ards of her, and I immediately put a 
bullet in the back of her neck, which dropped her dead. 

In her inside we discovered a freshly-eaten leucotis calf, 
which had been simply divided by her teeth in Imnps of about 
two pounds each. This was quite fresh, and my soldiers and 
the natives divided it among them as a hoiine-houche. Nasty 
fellows ! 

The day's sport had been : — One lioness killed by myself ; 
one leucotis buck by Mr. Baker ; one leucotis buck by Abd-el- 
Kader; two does of the same species b}'- Ferritch Ajoke ; and 
the natives had speared three calves. Total, one lioness and 
seven antelopes, all of which were to be eaten. 

We reached home at 5.40 p.m., not having had time to eat 
anything since the preceding evening. The lioness measured 
nine feet six inches from nose to tail extremity. 

As this work is simply an account of the principal events con- 
nected with the Khedive's expedition, I cannot afford space for 
many sporting incidents. Game was very abundant, and we 
generally kept the station well supplied ; at the same time I 
gave large quantities of flesh to the natives. 

I sometimes sent a party of my " Forty " to hunt, in Avhich 
sport they took a great interest, and the practice with the rifle 
improved their shooting. 

The natives througliout the country were perfectly happy and 
contented, but the women had been somewhat disturbed by the 



OHAP. XXV.] 



HAPPY GOVERNMENT 



445 



accounts they had received of our encounter with the lioness. 
They held a meeting in Gimoro's village. 

On the following day both Ginioro and Shooli arrived at my 
public divan looking rather dejected. 

They informed me that the women, having held a meeting, 
had arrived at the conclusion, "that the Pacha must not be 
allowed to go out hunting, as he might possibly be killed by a 
lion or a buffalo." "What would happen to usi" continued the 
women, " if any accident should befall our father 1 Would not 
the slave-hunters immediately return to the country and destroy 
us, simply because he had protected us 1 Do we not now sleep 
in peace 1 and were we not always awake at night before he 
came among us 1 " 

The women decided that I was to be kept in the camp as a 
cojoor or talisman, and that the natives were not to lead me 
into danger of wild animals. 

This declaration of the ladies of Fatiko could hardly be called 
petticoat government, as their total independence of attire pre- 
cluded any reference to such a garment ; but it v/as a distinct 
assertion of women's right to protect the person who had pro- 
tected them. They were excellent people, and were always well 
cared for and kindly treated by the men. 

My fort at Fatiko Avas within call of two large villages — those 
of Gimoro and the sheik of the country : during my sojourn of 
seven months, I never heard a woman scream, neither was there 
any domestic or civil disturbance. 

There were no police required in that country ; there was no 
pickpockets, as there were no pockets to pick — which was one 
advantage in favour of nudity. A London police magistrate 
would have died of ennui ; the constables could not even have 
sworn to a case of intoxication, merely as a matter of form to 
afford em.ployment. There were no immoral females to disgrace 
the public streets ; neither were there any beggars, vagrants, 
organ-grinders, or perambulators to worry, deafen, or upset you. 
My'country was a picture of true harmony. We had no complex 
machinery of law ; there was no such difficulty as an estate in 
Chancery ; no Divorce Court, or cases of crlm. con. that neces- 
sitated an appeal. Adultery would be settled by flogging 
respondent and co-respondent, with a judicial separation after 
the punishment. 

I had no ecclesiastical difficulties ; no High Church, Ritualists, 
Low Church, Broad Churchmen, Philosophers, Wesleyans, Bap- 
tists, Presbyterians, Eoman Catholics, Episcopalians, Independ- 



446 



ISMxlILIA. 



[chap. xxyi. 



ents, nor even a Jesuit or a descendant of Israel to "bring discord 
into my harmonious tabernacle. 

I>Iy troops were ]Moliammedans, -without an opposing sect, 
therefore, for lack of opposition, they were lukewarm believers. 

The natives believed in nothing. 

The curious fact remained, that without the slightest principle 
of worship, or even a natural religious instinct, these people 
should be free from many vices that disgrace a civilized com- 
munity. I endeavoured to persuade- the most intelligent of the 
existence of a Deity who could reward or punish ] but beyond this 
I dared not venture, as they woidd have asked practical ques- 
tions, which I could not have explained to their material 
understanding. 

I extract verhatim from my journal the short entry of 31st 
December, 1872 : — 

" The close of the year finds us, thank God, at peace in this 
country, mth every prospect of prosperity. " 



CHAPTER XXYL 

ARRIVAL OP m'tES^'S E2fV0YS. 

On 15th January, 1873, the sentry on the rock citadel reported 
a party arriving from the Unyoro road. Shortly after, the reports 
of guns were heard, and it was made known that envoys had 
arrived from M'tese, the king of Uganda, together with an 
escort of natives, and two of my soldiers from Eionga. jM'tese's 
people were armed with guns. 

The envoys were quickly ushered into the new divan, which 
was a circular, lofty building, twenty feet in diameter, neatly 
plastered, and painted light grey with a mixture of wood-ashes. 

Ali Jusef, the principal envoy, was a native of Sishuaali, on 
the coasts of the lied Sea entrance, and the Indian Ocean. I 
had several officers who were natives of the same country, 
including the gallant Ferritch .Agha and Said Agha : thus I 
had excellent interpreters. 

The envoys were beautifully clean, in white Bombay cotton 
clothes, and they were quite civilized, and as intelligent as Euro- 



OHAP. XXVI.] M'T^SE'S INVITATION. 



447 



peans. They appeared to have a thorough knowledge of the route 
to India, and the various tribes along the eastern coast of 
equatorial Africa. 

These people gave me much useful information ; and I shall, 
as usual in this work, simply extract from my journal the exact 
entry made at the moment Y^dlenever I received geographical 
reports from the natives : thus I shall give to the public the un- 
polished statements precisely as I heard them ; upon which data 
theoretical geographers may form their own opinions. 

"The envoys report, that from Ujiji (pronounced by them 
Uyeye) you can travel by lake direct to Magungo, the lake being 
the M'wootan N'zige. 

" The Victoria N'yanza is called by two names, ' Sessy ' or 
' Kurewe.' Although large, it is small in comparison with the 
M'wootan N'zige." 

There was no news of Livingstone ; bat, according to my 
request from Masindi, M'tese had sent everywhere in search of 
him, and he had forwarded my two letters addressed to him in 
different directions. 

The king, M'tese, had written me a letter expressing great 
friendship, and declaring that when the news of Kabba Eega's 
treachery had reached him, he had sent an army under General 
Congow, to be placed at my disposal. 

This army was now quartered at Mashudi,^ waiting for my 
orders. M'tese begged me to visit him as soon as possible, 
as he only had one desire, i.e. "to see my face," and that 
he " did not wish for presents." 

This was a model African potentate ; at the same time I could 
not possibly visit him, as my term of service would expire upon 
the 1st of April. 

I was much disappointed at this impossibility, as M'tese can 
do more for Central Africa than any other potentate. He 
behaved well to Speke and Grant, and he had been very true to 
me. 

On llth February, fresh envoys arrived from M'tese, includ- 
ing my old friend Waysooah, who was as usual dressed very 
carefully in Indian costume, with a handsomely-worked cotton 
robe. 

M'tese had written me another letter in Arabic, begging me 
to send him one of my soldiers as my representative, if I could 
not come personally. 



1 Two days' march from Rionga's island, on the road to Masindi. 



44S 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XXVI. 



The road was now declared to be practically open "between 
Fatiko and Zanzibar by means of M'tese's friendship. 

This excellent man, Avho Avas now a Mohammedan, and kept 
an Arab secretary, had already sent to Ujiji in search of Living- 
stone, accordiug to my request, and his messengers had returned 
w4th the news, "that he had been at Ujiji, and had crossed the 
lake to the west ; since which, nothing had been heard of him." 

M'tese's peoj^le were still in search of Livingstone. Ujiji 
was declared to be on the "M'wootan X'zige," i. e. the Albert 
K"'yauza. 

I give this information exactly as I received it. 
I now wrote a letter to Dr. Livingstone, of which the follow- 
ing is a copy : — 

" Fort Fatiko. 
(" N. lat. 3° r ; E. long. 32° 36',) 
^'February 13th, 187 3. 

My dear Ltv^gstoxe, 

" M'tese, the king of Uganda, has been searching for 
you, according to my instructions sent to him in June 1872. 

^'He also forwarded my letters to be given to you when met 
with. 

" His envoys have now visited me at Fatiko, with the report 
that M'tese's messengers heard of you as having formerly been 
at Ujiji; but that you had left that station and crossed the 
Tanganyika to the west. 

"Nothing more is known of you. 
I have sent a soldier with the envoys who convey this 
letter ; he will remain with IM'tes^. This soldier (Selim) was 
one of Speke's men, who travelled from Zanzibar to Cairo. 

" M'tese will take the greatest care of you. He has behaved 
very well to the government. 

"Since I wrote to you in June, Kabba Rega treacherously 
attacked me with many thousand men. 

" I thrashed him thoroughlj^, and I have set up Rionga, the 
old enemy of his family, who is now sheik of the government. 

" M'tese sent Congow with several thousand men to assist the 
troops. 

" 1 trust, my dear Livingstone, that this letter may reach you. 
Do not come down the lake. It is now well known that the 
Tanganyika is the Albert N'yanza ; both known as the great 
lake j\I'wootan N'zige. 

" A steamer will, I trust, be on the lake this year. 

*' Ever yours most sincerely, 

" Sam. W. Baker." 



CHAP. XXVI.] 



ENERGY OP KING M'Tl^SE. 



449 



On 13tli February, after a few days' pleasant sojourn at 
Tatiko, M'tese's envoys returned to Uganda, accompanied by 
my representative, Selim, who, although a private, was a very 
intelligent Suachli ; he had formerly accompanied Speke from 
Zanzibar. I gave Selim instructions to impress upon M'tese 
the necessity of assisting Livingstone without a moment's 
delay. 

It is interesting to remember, now that the great traveller is 
dead, that the arrangements I had made for his assistance would 
have secured his safety, and would have enabled him to pursue 
his geograpliical investigations northward, without the slightest 
risk or difficulty, beyond the bodily fatigue which is inseparable 
from African travel. 

My letter was not only delivered by M'tese's orders into the 
hands of Lieutenant Cameron, E.IST. at Unyamyembi, but MHese 
adualhj sent me liis reply throurjh the loeary distance to Gon- 
doJcoro ! This reply was received by my successor, Colonel 
Gordon, and was forwarded to the Khedive, as a proof of the 
effect of the expedition under my command, in opening through 
posted comniiuiieation in the heart of Africa. People who are 
unacquainted Avith the difficulties of Africa cannot sufficiently 
appreciate this grand result. The intelligent king, M'tese, 
should receive a present from our government, as a reward for 
having exerted himself to assist an English consul in distress. 
The small sum of £200, judiciou^ily expended, would procure 
trifles that would be treasures to M'tfes6, and would do more to 
open up Central Africa to travellers than any other means. 

I fear this may be forgotten, and that M'tese will be neglected 
after this truly philanthropic effort to relieve an English traveller 
and CONSUL when in difficulty. 

I wrote a letter thanking M'tese for all that he had done, and 
assuring him that our country would be grateful to him for any 
assistance that he might render Livingstone. At the same time 
that I thanked him for his aid to myself, I begged he would 
recall his army from Unyoro, as my troops, although few, were 
strong, and that, having already defeated Kabba Eega, I required 
no assistance. 

I sent General Congow a present of a sword, and a few articles 
to M'tese, in return for a specimen of beautifully-dressed skins, 
sewn together as neatly as the work of a French glover. . . 

The time wore on in considerable anxiety concerning the party 
that I had sent to Gondokoro under Wat-el-Mek for reinforce- 
ments. 

G G 



450 



ISMAILIA. 



fciIAP. XXVI. 



I had allowed them forty-two days for their return to Fatiko 
with the cattle and troops, but no intelligence had been received 
of their movements from the ^ye(^k they had started^ Fortun- 
ately the abundance of game in the neighbourhood had supplied 
the troops with meat. 

At length, after ninety-three days' absence, news was brought 
that "Wat-el-Mek and the troops were close at hand. Shooli had 
arrived at daybreak to say that a native had seen them on the 
previous evening on the north side of Shooa hill, about seven 
miles from Fatiko. 

'At 2.30 P.M., on 8th March, we distinguished the white uni- 
forms ascending the plateau at the north end of the Fatiko plain; 
and shortly after, the main body emerged from amoug the rocks 
and foliage, and formed on the level ground. I at once distin- 
guished with the telescope the lieutenant-colonel, Tayib Agha, 
upon his well-known povferful white horse. 

My troops in full uniform went out to meet the reinforcements, 
which quickly marched up and formed on the level tarf outside 
the fort upon the north side. 

I rode out and inspected the troops. 

Not one head of cattle had arrived / 

The lieutenant-colonel, Tayib Agha, had made a sad mess of 
his command during the march. He had quarrelled with Wat- 
el-Mek; and simply because some of the native carriers had 
absconded in a portion of the Bari country named Moogi, he 
had set fire to the villages in revenge ! This was in a country 
where I had established peace. 

The Baris had attacked the troops, and had not only killed 
twenty-eight of our men, but had stripped the bodies, and pos- 
sessed themselves of clothes, arms, and ammunition. They had 
also captured the cattle. 

Although Tayib Agha had about 280 men, he actually retreated, 
and dared not attack the natives to recover either the bodies of 
his men or their muskets ! ^ 

I at once determined to leave IMajor Abdullah as commandant 
at Fatiko, and to take Tayib Agha back to Gondokoro, as he 
was not fit for an independent command. 

The immense delay in sending up the reinforcements had l^een 
occasioned by the long voyage from Khartoum. 

1 The lieutenant who comiuaiuled the unfortunate detaclnnent was kiUed 
Avhile defending himself bravely to the last. In addition to the twenty- 
eight soldiers, two Bari interpreters were also killed, niakino- a total loss of 
thirty. 



OHAP. XXVI,] ORDERS FOR MAJOR ABDULLAH. 



451 



When Wat-el-Mek had readied Gondokoro, the troops had not 
arrived from Khartoum ; therefore he was obliged to wait. 

When at length they did arrive, they had been thirteen months 
on the voyage to Gondokoro, and had passed the rainy season 
with the slave-traders in the camp of Kutchiik Ali on the Bahr 
Giraffe ; this river they reported as navigable, owing to my canals, 
which had continued open. 

It was the old story of delay and indolence, unless I was per- 
sonally present to force them forward. 

I had now 620 men, therefore I reinforced Eionga and the 
various stations. I thus garrisoned strongly Fatiko, Fabbo, 
and Paniadoli — the stockade opposite Eionga's island, in 
lat. 2° 6'. 

The country of Unyoro was now completely in the grasp of 
Ali Genninar and Eionga. Unyoro extends to the south of the 
equator on the shores of the Albert J^'yanza, where Kabba Eega 
was supposed to be hiding. 

On 14th March I drew out the following orders for Major 
Abdullah, v/ho would remain as commandant of Fatiko : — 

" 1. Observe the rules at present existing respecting sentries. 

" 2. Observe the rales at present existing for cleanliness of 
camp. 

" 3. Plant negheel grass on ramparts during the rainy season. 

" 4. Clean out the fort ditch once every month. 

" 5. Each company of troops is to cultivate corn and vegetables 
at the commencement of the rains. 

" 6. Each company to be exercised at musketry drill for one 
hour daily. 

" 7. All troops to be exercised at light-infantry drill for three 
hours on Mondays and Fridays, upon which days there will be 
no other work. 

" 8. The corn-tax is to be regularly collected, so that three 
months' supply shall be the minimum in the camp granaries. 

" 9. The bagle to sound the night alarm once every month, to 
accustom the men to night quarters. 

" 10. The troops to occupy their stations at general quarters, 
according to j)resent practice. 

"11. Eanana plants to be introduced upon every opportunity 
from Magungo. 

" 12. Coffee-berries ^ to be sown in nursery-beds, when received 
from M'tese. 

1 I had written to him for a supply of cofFee-seed. 
G G 2 



452 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVI 



13. The old huts to be cleared away and replaced by new, 
constructed in lines similar to those in the south camp. 

" 14. l^To ivory to be purchased in exchange for cattle, but 
only in barter for goods. 

" 15. No slaves to he either purchased or taken. 

" 16. The bugle to sound ' Extinguish fires ' at 8 p.m." 

Having left everything in perfect order in the new central 
territory, I was ready to start for Gondokoro on 20th ]\[arch. 

I had been two years and five months without any news or 
communication with either Egypt or Europe v>'hen the post 
arrived with AVat-el-Mek. About 600 copies of the Times had 
arrived at once. We had been introduced to the Tichborne case ; 
and of course had, at the earliest stige of the trial, concluded 
that the claimant was Arthur Orton. The news that is almost 
stereotyped in English newspapers gave us the striking incidents 
of civilization. Two or three wives had been brutally knocked 
about by their husbands, who had received only a slight punish- 
ment. A prominent divorce case ; a few Irish agrarian outrages ; 
a trial in the ecclesiastical court of a refractory clergyman ; the 
smash-up of a few public companies, with the profitable immunity 
of the directors ; a lady burnt to death ; a colliery explosion ; 
several hundred railway accidents, which induced me to prefer 
walking ; the Communists had half destroyed Paris ; republican 
principles were fast spreading tlirough England ; the Gladstone 
ministry would last for ever ; some babies had been poisoned, 
and the baby-farmer had been hanged ; deceased wife's sisters 
were to marry their disconsolate brothers ; England was to pay a 
tribute to America (for tlie freaks of ilm Alahama); drunkenness 
was on the increase ; ladies were to become our physicians ; Sec. 
I was almost afraid to return home ; but as I had some friends 
and relations that I wished to see again, I left my little paradise, 
Eatiko, and marched for Gondokoro, accom^Janied by my good 
natives, Sliooli and Gimoro. 

After the absurd conduct and the defeat of Tayib Agha at 
Moogi, I fully expected to have to fight my way through ; but 
upon arrival in that district the natives knew me, and we were 
not molested. They even sent me six cows which had beer lost 
by Tayib Agha on the road during his unlucky march. 

I had taken under my especial jDrotection a number of Bari 
¦women and young girls whom Wat-el-Mek and Tayib Agha had 
pressed into their service to carry loads during their journey from 
Gondokoro to Eatiko. Tliere can be no doubt that these poor 
creatures never would have been returned to their country, had I 



CHAP. XXVI.] PEACE THROUGHQUT THE MARCH. 



453 



not delivered them; but seeing their condition upon their arrival 
at Fatiko, I had ordered them to accompany me, and to show me 
the position of their homes daring the march. 

On arrival at the broad dry bed of a stream about two days' 
march from Gondokoro, we halted beneath the shade of a large 
tree for breakfast. The women and children now approached, 
and hesitatingly declared that this was their country, and their 
villages were near. They evidently doubted my sincerity in 
restoring them, which hurt me exceedingly. 

Go, my good women," I exclaimed, and when you arrive 
at your homes, explain to your people that you were captured 
entirely against my will, and that I am only happy to have 
released you." 

Tor a few moments they looked around them, as hardly believ- 
ing the good news. In another instant, as the truth flashed across 
their delighted minds, they rushed upon me in a body, and before 
I had time for self-defence, I found myself in the arms of a naked 
beauty who kissed me almost to suffocation, and with a most un- 
pleasant embrace licked both my eyes with her tongue. The 
sentries came to my assistance, together with the servants, who 
withstood the grateful crowd ; otherwise both my wife and myself 
would have been subjected to this painful thanksgiving from the 
liberated Eari women. 

Their freedom having been explained, we gave each a present 
of beads as a reward for the trouble they had undergone, and 
they went away rejoicing, upon the road to their own homes. 

We arrived at Gondokoro on 1st April, 1873, without the 
slightest disturbance during the march. This was the exact day 
upon which my term of service would have expired, according 
to my original agreement with the Khedive. 

I halted the troops about half a mile from Gondokoro, to 
allow them to change their clothes, when I observed with the 
telescope some of the Englishmen approaching. Several of my 
welcome countrymen at length arrived. 

"Where is Mr. Higginbotham 1 " I asked, as I was eager to 
see my chief engineer and friend. 

There was a slight pause before the reply — " He died on the 
last day of Fehruarij ! " 

I was quite overpoAvered with the dreadful news ! Poor 
Higginbotham ! who had been my right hand throughout the early 
portion of the expedition ! He was a man who so thoroughly 
represented the character that we love to think is truly English, 
combining all energy, courage, and perseverance. He was gone ! 



454. 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVI. 



We niarclied iuto Gondokoro. fourteen montlis had made^ 
a change for the worse. I had left the station Avith a neat ditch 
and earthwork ; the environs had been clean. It was now a 
mass of filth. Eones and remnants of old clothes, that would 
have been a fortune to a rag-and-bone shop, lay scattered in all 
directions. The ditch was filled up with sand, and the fallen 
bank washed in by the heavy rains, as it had never been cleansed 
during my absence. 

The guns fired a salute ; Eaouf Bey and the troops appeared 
in good health ; and I w^as shown into poor Higginbotham's 
house on the cliff above the river. 

A beautiful new steamer of 108 tons, built of steel, with twin 
screws, was floating on the stream. This was the work of my 
Englishmen, who had taken a pride in turning out the best 
residts that jMessrs. Samuda Brothers and Messrs. Penn & Co. 
could produce. 

I went on board to inspect the new vessel directly after 
breakfast. She had been admirably constructed, and being 
devoid of paddles, she would be able to glide through the narrow 
channels of the Bahr Girafi'e like a fish. 

Although the station was dirty and neglected, I must do 
Eaouf Bey justice in acknowledging that he had paid much 
attention to the gardens on the islands, which were producing so 
abundantly that the troops received rations of vegetables daily. 

Kaouf Bey had also shown determination, and had accepted 
great responsibility in shooting a soldier for desertion during, 
my absence. 

It appeared that the reinforcements lately received from 
Khartoum were merely slaves that had been sold to the govern- 
ment, and had rapidly been trained for soldiers. J\Iany of these 
people had originally come from the White ISTile, therefore they 
were disposed to desert upon the first opportunity. 

A considerable number had deserted, with their arms and 
ammunition. They had also stolen Eaouf Bey's guns and rifles 
from his house, and had absconded to Belinian. Eaouf Bey 
had called upon the Belinian to give up the deserters ; but the 
Belinian natives had only replied to the summonses by making 
nightly demonstrations of attack against the station of Gondo- 
koro, which had rendered sound sleep impossible for the last 
month. Eaouf Bey had accordingly invaded Belinian, and had 
fought a pitched battle, in which the deserters who had joined 
the Baris fired upon the troops. Two of them Avero killed. ^ 

1 On this occasion, the Baris being well supplied with muskets aud 
ammunition, the troops of llaouf Bey suffered considerable loss. 



CHAP. XXVI.] TAKE LEAVE AT GONDOKORO. 



455 



I immediately sent for Allorron, wlio liad now^ become a 
faithful slieik of the government. He confessed all his sins, 
and of course laid the whole blame upon Abou Saood, who he 
declared had deceived him, and instigated him against the 
government. I did not wish for any explanations upon the 
truth of which I could not rely. I therefore ordered him to go 
at once to Belinian, and inform the natives that, unless they 
gave up the deserters-, I should pay them a visit with the "red 
shirts," who had now returned with me from Fatiko. At the 
same time I promised him three cows if he succeeded. 

In a few days he returned with two deserters. These men 
were tried by court-martial, and having been found guilty, they 
were shot in the presence of the regiment. 

Order and discipline were at once restored among the troops. 

Now that I had returned v/ith the "Forty Thieves," the 
natives of Belinian no longer visited the camp at night, but the 
country shortly became quiet and peaceful. 

Wat-el-Mek, who had accompanied me from Fatiko, returned 
with reinforcements and a herd of cattle to his district. I parted 
with regret with my good men Shooli and Gimoro, to whom I 
gave some useful presents. 

On 10th April I commenced a new fort with ditch and earth- 
work around the magazines, but the sandy nature of the soil will 
cause much trouble during the heavy rains. 

I ordered Mr. Marcopolo to take stock, together with an 
Egyptian officer (Foad Effendi), of everything that remained 
within the magazine, and to take a receipt for his stores. This 
task occupied nearly a month. 

The Englishmen had carefully packed everything that be- 
longed to the No. 3 steamer and machinery, and had stowed her 
in a magazine that Avas given in charge of an officer, who gave 
a receipt for the contents. 

Everything was ready by the 25th May for our return home- 
wards. I erected a monument of red brick coated with pitch 
over my poor friend Higginbotham's grave, within my garden, 
near the spot where the missionaries were formerly buried. 

We started on the 26th, having taken a farewell of my 
gallant " Forty Thieves/' many of whom showed much emotion 
at parting. As I walked down the line of troops when I took 
official leave, my old soldiers broke the bounds of discipline by 
shouting : " May God give you a long life ! and may you meet 
your family in good health at home ! " 

I felt a choking sensation in saying good-bye ; but we were 
goon on board, and the steam was up. 



4o6 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. xxyi. 



The new steamer, tlie Khedive^ took us in tow, and we 
travelled rapidly do^^^l the stream towards home in old Eng- 
land. 

Although I had written the most important letters to the 
Khedive and to his minister in October 1871, I had, to my 
amazement, not received one word in reply by the post that had 
arrived from Egypt. I had apparently been looked upon as a 
dead man that did not require a letter. It appeared that my 
existence was utterly ignored by the Egyptian government, 
although I had received my letters in due course from England. 

On arrival at the Bahr Giraffe, we found that the canals which 
I had formerly cut \vere much improved by the force of the 
stream. Although these passages were narrow, they had become 
deep, and we progressed with comparatively little trouble. 

On 7th June, three sails were reported ahead on the horizon. 
"We pushed forward with some curiosity, but unfortunately a 
sudd of vegetable rafts had closed the passage for a short 
distance, which required about an hour to clean ; this delayed 
the chase. 

That evening, as Ave had stopped for the night at a spot 
known as the " Three Dubbas," we heard a woman's voice from 
the high grass addressing us in an imploring tone. I imme- 
diately sent a boat to make inquiries, as one of our native girls 
understood the language. 

It appeared that the woman had the small-pox, and she had 
been therefore thrown into the high grass, and abandoned by 
the vakeel of the three vessels that we had observed in the 
distance. She described these vessels as being crowded with 
slaves. 

I gave the unfortunate creature a supply of six days' food, 
together with a cooking-pot and some firewood, but I dared not 
introduce so horrible a disease as the small-pox among our party. 
She was thus left alone upon the dubba.^ 

On 8th June we steamed along, towards the tull masts and 
yards of the three vessels which we perceived upon the horizon. 

The intricacies of the narrow channel were such that we did 
not overtake the slavers until sunset. 

We then anchored for the night in a lake, while I sent a boat 
forward into the canal occupied by the three vessels to order 
the vakeel of the company to visit me immediately. 

In a short time the boat returned with my old acquaintance 

^ At this season native fishermen visited the dubba, therefore she was 
most probably discovered on the folloAving morning. 



CHAP. XXVI. J CONNIVANCE AT THE SLAVE TRADE. 



457 



Wat Ilojoly, the vakeel of the Bohr station belonging to Abou 
Saood. 

I had always liked this man, as he was generally straightfor- 
ward in his manner. He now told me, without the slightest 
reserve, that during my absence in the south, several cargoes of 
slaves had passed the government station at Fashoda by bribing 
the governor j and that he would certainly have no difficulty, 
provided that I did not seize him. He confessed that he had 
700 slaves on board the three vessels, and according to orders 
that he had received from his master, Abou Saood, he was con- 
veying them to their destination, a few days south of Khartoum, 
on the White Mle ; at which point they could either march 
overland to the west via Kordofan, or to the east via Sennaar ; 
whence they could pass unmolested to the Red Sea or to other 
markets. 

The small-pox had broken out among the slaves, several of 
whom had died. 

I was most thoroughly disgusted and sick at heart. After all 
the trouble and difficulties that we had gone through for the 
suppression of the slave trade, there could be no question of the 
fact that Abou Saood, the great slave-hunter of the White I^ile, 
was supported by some high authority behind the scenes, upon 
whom he could depend for protection. 

This was apparently the last act of tlie drama, in which the 
villain of the piece could mock and scoff at justice, and ridicule 
every effort that I had made to suppress the slave trade. His 
vessels were actually sailing in triun^ph and defiance before the 
wind, with flags flying the crescent and the star, above a 
horrible cargo of pest-smitten humanity, in open contempt for 
my authority; which Wat Hojoly had been carefully informed 
did not extend north of Gondokoro. 

I asked this plain-spoken agent whether he was quite sure 
that he could pass the government station] ''Oh yes," he 
replied, " a little backsheesh will open the road ; there is no- 
thing to fear." 

I was then informed by the same authority that Abou Saood 
had gone to Cairo to appeal to the Khedive's government against 
my proceedings, and to represent his trade as ruined by my 
acts. 

This was a remarkable disclosure at the end of the last act ; 
the moral of the piece was thus explained before the curtain 
fell. The slave-hunter pa?' excellence of the White Nile, who 
had rented or farmed from the government, for some thousands 



458 



ismailIa. 



[chap. XXVI. 



sterling per annum, the riglit of teading in countries wliicli did 
not belong to Egypt, was now on the road to protest against niy 
interference with his traclp, this innocent business being repre- 
sented three res^f'Is v/'tJi sri-rj/ iDindred sleives that irere to 
jKiss iinclipcken lefore tltp gnrprnriioii station of Fashoda. 

I told Wat Hojoly that I did not think he would succeed upon 
this occasion, but that I should certainly not lay hands upon 
him. 

I had not received replies to my letters addressed to the 
Khedive, therefore I was determined not to exert physical force 
again ; at the same time I made up my mind that the slave 
vessels should not pass Fashoda. 

After some delay, owing to a shallow portion of the river, we 
passed ahead, and the fearful stench from the crowded slave 
vessels reeking with small-pox followed us for quite a mile 
down the wind.^ 

On 19th June, at 3.30 v.yi., we reached Fashoda. The 
governor ab once came on board to receive us. 

This officer had been only recently appointed, and he ap- 
peared to be very energetic and desirous to assist me in the 
total extinction of the slave trade. I assured the governor 
(Jusef Effendi) that I had entirely suppressed it in my territory, 
and I had also suppressed the river trade in 1870; but if the 
authorities were determined to connive at this abomination, I 
had been placed in a disgracefully false position, and had been 
simply employed on a fool's errand. 

Jusef Effendi assured me that it would be impossible for 
vessels to pass Fashoda with slave cargoes now that he repre- 
sented the government, as the Khedive had issued the most 
positive orders within the last six months against the traffic in 
slaves ; therefore such instructions must be obeyed. 

I did not quite see that obedience to such orders was abso- 
lutely necessary, as the slave trade had been similarly prohibited 
by proclamation in the reign of the late Said Pacha, but with no 
l^ermanent effect. 

There were two fine steamers lying at Faslioda, Avhicli had 
formed a portion of the fleet of six steamers that I had sent up 
from Cairo some years ago to tow my flotilla up the Vv^hite 
Nile. This was tlie first time that I had ever seen them. 

I now told Jusef Effendi that he would bo held responsible 

^ Fortimately there was a powerful force with Wat Ilojoly, whom I 
called upon for assistance in heaving the steamer over the bank; otherwise 
we must have dug a channel. 



OHAP. XXVI,] 



ISMAIL AYOUB PACHA. 



45D 



for the capture of Abou Saood's three vessels, together with the 
700 slaves ; at the same time, it would be advisable to allow 
them to arrive at Fashoda before their capture should be at- 
tempted ; as the fact of such an audacious contempt of law 
would at once implicate the former governor as having been in 
the habit of connivance. 

J usef Effendi appeared to be in earnest. He was an active 
and highly intelligent Circassian who held the rank of lieuten- 
ant-colonel. 

My servants had discovered by chance, when in communi- 
cation with Wat Hojoly, that Salim-Wat-Howah, who had been 
one of the principal ringleaders in the attack upon the troops at 
Fatiko, and had sub3e(T[uentl3^ knocked down Suleiman and 
possessed himself forcibly of the ammunition from the magazine, 
Tv^ith which he and his party had absconded, was now actually 
concealed on one of the three slave vessels. I had taken care 
not to mention his name to Wat Hojoly, lest he should be left 
at some station upon the route, and thus escape me. 

I now gave a written order to Jusef Effendi to arrest him 
upon the arrival of the slave vessels, and to send him to 
Khartoum in irons. 

The news of Abou Saood's personal appeal to the government 
at Cairo was conhrmed by the best authorities at Fashoda. 

On 21st June I took leave of Jusef Effendi, and upon the 
28th, at 11 A.M., we arrived at the large tree which is within 
live miles of Khartoum, by the shorb cut across the neck of 
land to the Blue Nile. 

I stopped at this tree, and immediatel}' wrote to Ismail A.youb 
Pacha, the new governor of Khartoum, to telegraph instanthj to 
Cairo to arrest Abou Saood. 

I sent this note by a faithful officer, Ferritch Agha, with posi- 
tive orders that he Avas to deliver it into the hands of Ismail 
Pacha. 

This order was immediately carried out before any people in 
Khartoum had an idea of my return. Had I at once steamed 
round the point, some friend would have telegraphed my arrival 
to Abou Saood in Cairo, and he might have gone into conceal- 
ment. 

In the afternoon we observed a steamer rounding the distant 
headland at the point of junction of the two Niles. She rapidly 
approached, and in about half an hour my old friend, Ismail 
Ayoub Pacha, stepped on board my dialibeeah, and gave us a 
hearty welcome. 



460 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVI. 



There was no letter either from the Khedive or Cherif Pacha, 
in reply to the important communications that I had written more 
than two years ago. 

Ismail Ayoiib Pacha was a friend of eight years' date. I had 
known him during my first expedition to the l!^ile sources as 
Ismail Bey, president of the council at Khartoum. He had lately 
been appointed governor, and I could only regret that my excel- 
lent friend had not been in that capacity from the commencement 
of the expedition, as I should have derived much assistance from 
his great energy and intelligence. 

Ismail Ayoub Pacha is a Circassian. I have observed that all 
those officers who are superior to the average in intellect and 
general capacity belong to this race. The Circassians are admir- 
ably represented in Cherif Pacha, who is well known and 
respected by all Europeans in Egypt for his probity and high 
intelligence ; and Eiaz Pacha, who was lately the jMinister 
for Public Instruction, is a Circassian much beloved and 
respected. 

Ismail Ayoub had commenced a great reform in the Soudan, 
in his endeavour to put down the wholesale system of bribery 
and corruption which was the ruin of the country. He had also 
commenced a great work, according to the orders he had received 
from the Khedive, to remove the sudd or obstruction to the navi- 
gation of the great White i^ile. He succeeded in re-opening the 
White Nile to navigation in the following season. 

The Khedive had given this important order in consequence of 
letters that I had written on 31st August, 1870, to the Minister 
of the Interior, Cherif Pacha, and to his Highness direct on 8th 
October, 1871, in which communications I had strenuously advo- 
cated the absolute necessity of taking the work in hand, with a 
determination to re-establish the river in its original navigable 
condition. 

Ismail Ayoub Pacha had been working with a large force, and 
he had succeeded in clearing, according to his calculations, one 
half of the obstruction, which extended for many miles. 

There was no engineering difficulty in the undertaking, which 
was simply a matter of time and steady labour. 

Tlie immense force of the main stream, thus confined by matted 
and tangled vegetation, would materially assist the work, as the 
clearing was commenced from below the current. 

The work would become lighter as the head of the sudd would 
be neared. 

A curious accident had happened to Ismail Pacha by the 



CHAP. XXVI.] CAPTURE OF THE SLAVERS. 



461 



sudden break-up of a large portion of the sudd, that had been 
weakened by cutting a long but narrow chauneh 

The prodigious rafts of vegetation were liurried before the 
stream like ice-floes, and these masses having struck against a 
line of six noggurs, the vessels were literall}^ swept away and 
buried beneath the great rafts, until they capsized and disappeared 
for ever in the deep channel. 

Late in the evening Ismail Pacha took leave and returned in his 
steamer to Khartoum. We had enjoyed a long conversation, and 
I felt sure that the Soudan and Central Africa would quickly feel 
the benefit of Ismail Ayoub Pacha's administration, as he com- 
bined great energy and determination with nine years' experience 
of the requirements of his jjrovince. 

On 29th June the new steamer, the Khedive, rounded the 
point at full speed with our diahbeeali in tow. 

All the population of Khartoum thronged to the banks and the 
new quay to witness the arrival of the extraordinary steamer 
that travelled without paddles, and which had been constructed 
by the Englishmen at Ismailia (Gondokoro). 

Tlie troops were in order, and as the Khedive drew alongside 
the quay we were warmly welcomed by Ismail Ayoub Pacha with 
the usual formalities. 

A few days latter, a steamer arrived from Fashoda Avith the 
three vessels in tow belonging to Abou Saood, which had at- 
tempted to pass the government station with more than 600 
slaves on board, about 100 having died of the small-pox since I 
had left the Bahr GiralFe. The small-pox was still raging on 
board, therefore the vessels were taken to the north bank of 
the Blue Nile and placed in quarantine. 

As the guard passed by with prisoners, I recognized my friend 
the vakeel, Wat Hojoly, in irons. The unfortunate man had 
found a new governor at Pashoda instead of his old acquaintance ; 
thus he did not pass free ; as I had anticipated. 

Walking next to the vakeel, heavily chained, with his wrists 
secured in a block of wood similar to stocks, came the cream of 
ruffians, Salim-Wat-Howah, nailed at last. 

This villainous-looking fellow was afterwards tried before the 
medjeldis, or tribunal, and by overpowering evidence he was 
found guilty of having first threatened to attack Major Abdullah 
in the government camp of Fatiko ; and secondly, v/ith having 
actually given the orders to fire, and having fired himself, on 2nd 
August, 1872, when we had been treacherously attacked by 
Abou Saood's company. 



462 



ISMAILIA. 



[CH.iP. XXVI. 



I spoke in favour of Wat Hojol}^, as he had otherwise behaved 
well towards the government, and he was simply carr3ang out the 
orders of his master, Abou Saood. 

It had been the usual custom in the Soudan to spare the 
employers, who were the most responsible parties, but to punish 
the small fry, such as vakeels^ and the reis, or captains of vessels. 

Ismail Pacha had made great improvements in Khartoum, and 
he had completed the new government house that had been 
commenced by his predecessor, Moomtazz Pacha, Avho was also 
a most intelligent Circassian. He had likewise made a great 
change by converting a large o^^en space into a pubhc garden, 
w^here it was his intention that the military band should play 
every evening for the amusement of the people. 

Steam irrigation works were also commenced on the north side 
of the Blue Xile for the cidtivation of cotton. 

After a few days at Khartoum w^e took leave of our good 
friend, Ismail Ayoub Pacha, and started for Cairo by steamer. 

I had left my two boys^ Saat and Bellaal, w^ith Ismail Pacha, 
to be instructed either as musicians or soldiers, the latter profes- 
sion being their great ambition. There was already a school 
established for the education of the more intelligent negro boys 
that might be liberated from the slave-traders. 

Upon our arrival at Berber, I found a considerable improve- 
ment in the countr}^. The Arabs were beginning to return to 
the fertile banks of the river, and to rebuild their sakeeyahs or 
water-wheels. This change was the result of a w^ise reform 
instituted by the Khedive, in dividing the Soudan into provinces, 
each of which would be governed by a responsible and inde- 
pendent official, instead of serving under a governor-general at 
the distance of Khartoum. 

Hussein Khalifali w^as now the governor of Berber. He was 
the great Arab sheik of the desert who had so ably assisted IMr. 
Higginbotliam in transportiug the machiner}'- and steamer sections 
by camels from Korosko -to Berber across the great JSTubian 
desert, for a distance of about 400 miles. The Arabs were much 
pleased at his appointment as governor, as he was one of their race. 

In starting from Berber for Souakim, I had the great misfor- 
tune to lose by death one of my excellent Englishmen, David 
Samson. He had been ailing for some time, and the intense 
heat of July was more than he could endure in riding across the 
desert. Poor Samson died on the first day's march, and I had 
his body convoyed to Berber, where it was buried in the Coptic 
cemetery with every mark of respect. 



CHAP. XXVI.] EVIDENCE AGAINST ABOU SAOOD. 



463 



This was a sad termination after a journey of nearly four years 
and a half, when he was on the hopeful road towards home. 

We were nearly wrecked during the voyage from Souakim to 
Suez, as the engine of the sloop-of-war Avas out of repair. We 
then changed to another steamer, Avhich carried away the cap of 
her rudder during a heavy sea and fresh northerly gale. For- 
tunately our English shipwrights were on board, and Lieutenant 
Baker, knew his work ; thus w^e escaped drowning on a 

coral reef, which would assuredly have been our fate had Ave 
been left to the ignorance of the officers and crew. 

We reached Cairo on 24th August at 4.30 p.m. On 25th I 
had the honour of presenting myself to his Higlmess the Khedive, 
to explain the large chart of his new territory that I had annexed 
in Central Africa. 

I received from his Highness the Imperial order of the 
Osmanie, 2nd class, as a token of his approbation of my services. 
I had already had the honour to accept from his hands the order 
of the Medjidie, 2nd class, before I had started upon my mission. 
His Highness the Khedive now conferred upon Lieutenant Baker 
the order of the Medjidie, 3rd class. 

I handed the botanical collection to his Highness the Khedive, 
which had been carefally prepared throughout the journey by 
Lady Baker. Unfortunately more than 300 specimens of plants 
had been destroyed by the conflagration at Masindi. The 
botanical specimens, together with samples of the fibres, skins, 
and the salt of the new territory, Avere ordered to be forwarded 
to the Vienna Exhibition. 

The Khedive expressed his determination to judge Abou 
Saood by a special tribunal, composed of Cherif Pacha, Nubar 
Pacha, and Ismail Pacha, the Minister of Finance. I handed 
seventeen documents to JNubar Pacha, Avith evidence SAvorn to 
upon the Koran before Avitnesses, and properly sealed by Wat- 
el-Mek, Suleiman, the sheiks of the country. Major Abdullah, 
and others, against Abou Saood, charging him Avith various 
crimes, including treason in having given the orders that his 
Fatiko company should fire at me and the government troops. 
I took a receipt for these important documents. 

I had also brought up several of the " Forty Thieves " as 
viva-voce Avitnesses, in addition to Lieutenant Baker, K.N"., 
Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, Captain Mohammed Deii, and 
two servants, Suleiman and Mohammed Haroon. Thus all the 
evidence was in official order : — 

1 26th Jumay Owal, 1289, report of Major Abdullah (com- 



464 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVI. 



mandant of Fatiko) : threatening conduct of Abou Saood's 
vakeels during my absence. 

2. 28th Jumay Owal, 1289, the declaration of the regimental 
officers of Fort Fatiko. 

3. 6th October, 1872, 1st Shaban, 1289, the declaration of 
the vakeels of Abou Saood (Wat-el-Mek and Suleiman), that 
they had acted according to orders received from Abou Saood. 

4. 26th Jumay Owal, 1289, Major Abdullah's declaration 
against Abou Saood and his company at Fatiko. 

5. 12th Jumay Ocher, 1289, declaration of the chiefs of the 
country, complaining of the kidnapping of women and children, 
massacres, &c., committed by Abou Saood and his companies. 

6. Declaration of Abou Saood's men, containing declarations 
of Mohammed, Wat-el- l>Iek, and Beslieer Achmet, that Abou 
Saood gave the order to fire at the Pacha and the government 
troops. Two large papers. 

7. 29th Jumay Owal, 1289, letter from Abou Saood from 
Fabbo. 

8. 29th Eebi Owal, 1289, Major xibdullali's reasons for not 
detaining Suleiman, and for not arresting Abou Saood. 

9. 2nd Jumay Acher, 1289, letter from Abou Saood, Fatiko. 

10. 29th Jumay Owal, 1289, order for conhscation of Fatiko 
after the attack made upon the troops. 

11. Letter from officers of Fabbo. 

12. 4th Kegeb, 1289, report of Abou Saood's escape with 
government guns, &c. 

13. 22nd Jumay Acher, 1289, letter from vakeel Suleiman, 
Fabbo. 

14. 3rd i!^ovember, 1872, proces-verhal ; declaration of Sulei- 
man and Abou Saood's people. • 

15. 1st Shaban, 6th October, 1873, copy of orders to Wat-el- 
Mek. 

16. Mohammed the dragoman's declaration. 

17. Wat-el-j\rek's declaration that he and his people wero 
always paid by Abou Saood in slaves, and that the conduct of 
the stations was according to his orders. Also that he had 
obeyed Abou Saood's orders in attacking me at Fatiko. 

His Highness the Khedive had the kindness to confer promo- 
tion upon my faithful officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, 
to the rank of kaimakam ; and Captain Mohammed Deii to the 
rank of saccolassi. He also granted a reward to the soldiers 
who had fought the battle of Masindi, and marched through 
eight days of ambuscades to Fowcera. 



OHAP. XXVII.] 



CONCLUSION. 



465 



A gratuity of a month's pay was given to every English 
engineer and mechanic, and they started for England. 

After a delay of about six weeks in Egypt, his Highness 
afforded us a gracious and hospitable occasion of taking leave of 
himself and the young princes, to all of whom I am indebted 
for much courtesy and kindness. 



CHAPTER XXYir. 

CONCLUSION. 

The foregoing chapters will have afforded a sufficiently distinct 
view of the expedition to enable the public to form their OAvn 
opinion of the position of the slave trade. 

It will have been seen that I had acted directly against that 
infamous traffic from the commencement of the work, according 
to the explicit instructions of my firman ; at the same time I 
had made due allowances for the ambiguous position of the 
traders upon the White Nile, who Avere actual tenants of the 
government. Thus I never visited the interior of their camps, 
nor had I disturbed their stations in an}^ way, but I had passed 
them as without the pale of my jurisdiction ; at the same time I 
gave the vakeels due warning, and entirely prevented them from 
making use of the river as the highway of the slave trade. 

In 1870, while I was camped at Tewfikeeyah, I entirely 
suppressed the river traffic ; but the fact of my having over- 
taken three vessels with 700 slaves belonging to Abou Saood at 
the close of the expedition, on my return towards Khartoum, 
must be a damning proof of complicity on the part of certain 
government officials. 

Thus it is plain that, while I was endeavouring to do my 
duty, others who should have been supporting me were actually 
supporting the slave-hunters. K'o people could have had the 
absurd audacity to attempt the passage of the river in front of 
Eashoda — a government station, garrisoned by two regiments, 
and provided with two steamers — unless they were in league 
with the officials. 

My personal interference has rendered the slave trade of the 

H H 



466 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVII. 



"White Nile impossible so long as the government is determined 
that it shall be impossible. At the close of the expedition, the 
higher officials had been changed, and the country appeared to 
be in good hands. The governor of Fashoda, Jusef Effendi, had 
captured the slave vessels of Abou Saood according to my 
instructions. Ismail Ayoub Pacha had been appointed governor 
of Khartoum. Hussein Kbalifah, the Arab desert sheik, was 
governor of Berber, and various important changes had been 
made among the higher authorities throughout the Soudan, 
¦which proved that the Khedive was determined upon reform. 

One grand and sweeping reform was absolutely necessary to 
extinguish the slave trade of Central Africa, and this I had the 
honour to suggest : — " That all the present existing traders or 
tenants of the AYhite Xile should be expelled from the country, 
precisely as I had expelled them from the territory under my 
command." The government would then assume the monopoly 
of the ivory trade of the White IS^ile, and the natives would in a 
few years be restored to confidence. 

So long as the so-called traders of Khartoum should be per- 
mitted to establish themselves as independent piratical societies 
in the Nile Basin, the slave trade would continue, and the road 
through Darfur and Kordofan would be adopted in place of the 
tabooed White Nile. 

Should the White Nile companies be totally disbanded, the 
people now engaged must return to their original agricultural 
pursuits in the Soudan, and their labour would tend to an 
increase of the revenue, and to the general prosperity of the 
country. 

I have already published so much on the subject of the slave 
trade in The Albert N'yanza," that I fear to repeat what I 
have before so forcibly expressed. I have never changed my 
original opinions on this question, and I can only refer the 
public to page 313, vol, ii., of that Avork, whence I take the 
following extract : — " Stop the White Nile trade ; prohibit the 
departure of any vessels from Khartoum to the south, and let 
the Egyptian government grant a concession to a company for 
the White Nile, subject to certain conditions, and to a special 
supervision. . . . 

..." Should the slave trade be suppressed, there will be a 
good opening for the ivory trade ; the conflicting trading parties 
being withdrawn, and the interest of the trade exhibited b}' a 
single company, the natives would no longer be able to barter 
ivory for cattle; thus they woidd be forced to accept other 



CHAP. XXVII.] SUPPRESSION OF THE SLAVE TflABE. 



46? 



goods in exchange. The newly-discovered Albert Lake opens 
the centre of Africa to navigation. Steamers ascend from 
Khartoum to Gondokoro in lat. 4° 55'. Seven days' march 
south of that station the navigable portion of the Nile is 
reached, whence vessels can ascend direct to the Albert Lake ; 
thus an enormous extent of country is opened to navigation, 
and Manchester goods and various other articles would find a 
ready market in exchange for ivory at a prodigious profit, as in 
those newly-discovered regions ivory has a merely nominal value. 

" Beyond this commencement of honest trade I cannot offer a 
suggestion, as no produce of the country except ivory could afford 
the expense of transport to Europe. ^ 

" If Africa is to be civilized, it must be effected by commerce, 
•which, once established, will open the way for missionary labour; 
but all ideas of commerce, improvement, and the advancement of 
the African race that philanthropy can suggest, must be discarded 
until the traffic in slaves shall have ceased to exist. 

" Should the slave trade be suppressed, a field would be opened, 
the extent of which I will not attempt to suggest, as the future 
would depend upon the good government of countries now devoted 
to savage anarchy and confusion. .... 

^' Difficult and almost impossible is the task before the mis- 
sionary. The Austrian mission has failed, and their stations have 
been forsaken; their pious labour was hopeless, and the devoted 
priests died upon their barren field." 

By a reference to that work also — " The Albert JST'yanza " — it 
will be seen that in the present expedition I carried out the plans 
that I had proposed at the termination of my first journey. 

I have no doubt that missionaries will take advantage of the 
change that has resulted from the suppression of the slave trade 
and the establishment of a government. At the same time, should 
they attempt a settlement in the neighbourhood of Gondokoro, 
they must be prepared with an inexhaustible stock of patience 
when dealing with the Baris. 

The Madi and Shooli tribes would be found tractable and more 
capable of religious instruction. It is my opinion that the time 
has not yet arrived for missionary enterprise in those countries ; 
but at the same time a sensible man might do good service by 
living among the natives, and proving to their material rninds 
that persons do exist whose happiness consists in doing good to 
others. Tlie personal qualifications and outfit for a single man 

* The proposed railway from Cairo to Khartoum will overcome this obstacle. 

H H 2 



468 



ISMAILIA. 



[OHAP. XXVII. 



Avlio would thus settle among the natives should be various. If 
he wished to secure their attention and admiration, he should 
excel as a rifle shot and sportsman. If musical, he should play 
the Highland bagpipes. He should be clever as a conjurer, and 
be well provided with conjuring tricks, together with a magic 
lantern, magnetic battery, dissolving views, photographic appara- 
tus, coloured pictorial illustrations, &c., &c. He should be a good 
surgeon and general doctor, &c. ; and be well supplied with drugs, 
remembering that natives have a profound admiration for medical 
skill. 

A man who in full Highland dress could at any time collect an 
audience by playing a lively air with the bagpipes, would be 
regarded with great veneration by the natives, and would be 
listened to when an archbishop by his side would be totally dis- 
regarded. He should set all psalms to lively tunes, and the 
natives would learn to sing them immediately. 

Devotional exercises should be chiefly musical. 

In this manner a man would become a general favourite ; and 
if he had a never-failing supply of beads, copper rods, brass rings 
for arms, fingers, and ears, gaudy cotton handkerchiefs, red or blue 
blankets, zinc mirrors, red cotton shirts, &c. , to give to his parish- 
ioners, and expected nothing in return, he Avould be considered a 
great man, whose opinion would carry a considerable weight, 
provided that he only spoke of subjects which he thoroughly 
understood. 

A knowledge of agriculture, with a good stock of seeds of use- 
ful vegetables and cereals, iron hoes, carpenter's and blacksmith's 
tools, and the power of instructing others in their use, together 
with a plentiful supply of very small axes, woidd be an immense 
recommendation to a lay missionary who should determine to 
devote some years of his life to the improvement of the natives. 

In the magnificent equatorial portions of Africa there is a great 
field for British enterprise, and much might be accomplished by 
lay missionaries, who would at the commencement avoid theolo- 
gical teaching, until by other means they should have gained an 
ascendency over the minds of the natives. By slow degrees con- 
fidence might be established; and much may be eflected by good 
example. . , . 

The geography of Central Africa, that has made great strides 
within the last few years, will now be rapidly extended. The 
fact of an established government under the direction of my able 
successor, Colonel Gordon, ll.E.,is sufhcient to assure the most 
sceptical that the future will bo rich in geographical discoveries. 



oiiAP. xxvii.] THE TANGANYIKA. 



469 



It is hoped that the steamer which I carried up to Gondokoro 
will be transported to the Albert N'yanza early in the year 1875. 
It is impossible to foretell the result of steam communication on 
the great inland sea M'wootan N'zige. 

I do not love to dwell upon geographical theories, as I believe 
in nothing but actual observation ; but I cannot quite disbelieve 
my native informants, who assured me that they had travelled 
to Ujiji by canoe from Chibero on the Albert N'yanza. 

By the latest intelligence from Lieutenant Cameron, dated 
Ujiji, 28th February, 1874, the mean of many observations for 
altitude of the Tanganyika Lake talcen with mercurial baro- 
meter, aneroids, and boiling water thermometers, gives 2.573 feet 
above the sea-level. 

The corrected altitude of the Albert N'yanza, taken by me at 
Vacovia, K lat. 1° W, March 14, 1864, is 2,720. The uncor- 
rected or the absolute observation of the instrument was 2,448. 

Whenever Lieutenant Cameron shall return home, it Avill be 
interesting to observe the results of his corrected observations, 
as they already so closely approach the level of the Albert 
N'yanza. 

As the Khedive's expedition under Colonel Gordon will 
shortly have the advantage of a steamer on the Albert Lake or 
M'wootan N'zig(^, the question of a connection between the two 
lakes will be definitely settled. 

When that question shall have been resolved, geographers 
must turn their attention to the great river Sobat, which is by 
far the most important affluent of the Nile. 

Although during my recent expedition I have not travelled 
over much new ground, the advantages to geography are con- 
siderable, owing to the professional observations of Lieutenant 
Baker, E.N., to whom I confided the entire charge of the topo- 
graphical department. Some slight corrections have been made 
in observations for longitude taken during my first expedition ; 
and as every place is now rigidly attested on the map, that 
portion of Central Africa is most thoroughly investigated, and 
the astronomical positions of all principal points and stations are 
incontestable. 

The fact of this thorough exploration, and the establishment 
of the Egyptian government, now afford a firm base for all future 
travellers. The good work of one man can be carried on by his 
successor. Formerly it w\as impossible to render the necessary- 
support to an explorer in Central Africa. A distant country 
cannot plunge into war with a savage potentate of the equatorial 



470 



ISMAILlA. 



[chap. XXVII. 



I^'ile Basin because lie has either captured an explorer or 
devoui-ed a missionary. 

There was only one step practicable if the improvement of 
Africa were to be attempted. Egypt was the only country that 
could form a government by the extension of her frontier to the 
equator. This would insure the safety of future travellers where 
hitherto the life of an individual had no guarantee. 

This annexation is novv^ effected, and our relations with the 
Khedive assure us that the heart of Africa will be thrown open 
to the civilizing influence of the Xorth. 

When the railway shall be completed from Cairo to Ivhartoum, 
there will be direct communication by rail and river. Countries 
that are eminently adapted for the cultivation of cotton, coffee, 
sugar, and other tropical productions Avill be brought within the 
influence of the commercial world, and the natives, no longer 
kidnapped and torn from their homes, will feel the benefits of 
industry, as they now feel the blessings of j^rotection. 

It is well known that the greatest difficulties lie in the first 
footsteps of a great enterprise ; but those difficidties are overcome, 
and patience and perseverance will at length perfect the good 
work. The impression of civilization must be graduall}^ and 
slov.dy engraved upon Central Africa, and those who work in this 
apparently hopeless undertaking must not be appalled by tho 
difficulties of the task. 

In the share that I have taken during nine years passed in 
Africa, I have simply represented one of those atoms of which 
Great Britain is composed. I deejDl}' regret that personally I 
have not had the honour of serving my Queen, but I trust that 
indirectly I have worked out that principle, which England Avas 
the first to initiate, expressed in the word " Ereedom," which, we 
maintain, is the natural inheritance of man. 

Mingled with the regret that I was not in the service of Her 
Majesty, is the pleasure that I feel in testifying to the able 
manner in which the Royal Xavy was represented, throughout a 
long and trying expedition, by Lieutenant Julian Alle3'ne Baker, 
RK. This energetic young officer rendered me the greatest 
assistance, and has left a vivid impression on the minds of the 
natives, and of the Egyptian troops, of the activity, and the 
straightforward, manly character that has always distinguished 
British sailors in whatever duty they have had to perform, 
whether on sea or land. 

I return my acknowledgments of the faithful and courageous 
services of Lieutenant-Colonel Abd-el-Kader, and other officers 



CHAP. XXVII.] 



NINE YEARS IN AFRICA. 



471 



who accompanied me through every difficulty with patience and 
devotion. 

I also thank Mr. Marcopolo, my intelligent and trustworthy 
secretary and chief storekeeper, at the same time that I acknow- 
ledge the services of those industrious English engineers and 
mechanics who so thoroughly supported the well-known reput- 
ation of their class by a determination to succeed in every work 
that Avas undertaken. Their new steamer, the Khedive, remains 
upon the White Mle an example of their energy and capability. 

Lastly, I must acknowledge the able assistance that I have 
received, in common with every person connected with the 
iidand expedition, from my wife, who cared for the sick when 
we were without a medical man, and whose gentle aid brought 
comfort to many whose strength might otherwise have failed. 
During a period of fourteen months, with a detachment of 212 
officers and men, exclusive of many servants and camp-followers, 
/ only lost one man from sickness, and he was at an out-station. 

In moments of doubt and anxiety she was always a thought- 
ful and Aviso counsellor, and much of my success through nine 
long years passed in Africa is due to my devoted companion. 

The foundation for a great future has heen laid ; a remote 
portion of the African race hitherto excluded from the Avorld's 
history has been brought into direct communication Avith the 
superior and more civilized races ; legitimate trade has been 
opened ; therefore, accepting commerce as the great agent of 
civilization, the Avork is actually in progress. 

Fortified posts extend to Avithin two degrees of the equator. 
The alliance Avith M'tese, the king of Uganda, enabled me not 
only to communicate by letter (addressed to Livingstone) in the 
distant country of Unyanyembe, but a reply Avas sent by Lieu- 
tenant Cameron, together Avith large presents of ivory, to me at 
Gondokoro,^ as I have been informed by a letter from Colonel 
Gordon. 

The Khedive of Egypt, having appointed Colonel Gordon, 
E.E., has proved his determination to continue the work that 
was commenced under so many difficulties. The Nile has been 
opened to navigation; and if the troubles that I encountered 
and overcame shall have smoothed the path for my able and 
energetic successor, I shall have been Avell rcAvarded. 

The first steps in establishing the authority of a ncAV govern- 
ment in a tribe hitherto savage and intractable were of necessity 

^ The letter and the ivory from M'tese Avere received by Colonel Gordon. 



472 



ISMAILIA. 



[chap. XXVII. 



accompanied by military operations. "War is inseparable from 
annexation, and the law of force, resorted to in self-defence, was 
absolutely indispensable to prove the superiority of the power 
that was eventually to govern. The end justified the means. 

At the commencement of the expedition I hai felt that the 
object of the enterjDrise — " the suppression of the slave trade " — 
was one for which I could confidently ask a blessing. 

A hrm belief in Providential support has not been unre- 
warded. In the midst of sickness and malaria we had strength; 
from acts of treachery we were preserved unharmed; in personal 
encounters we remained unscathed. In the end, every oppo- 
sition was overcome : hatred and insubordination yielded to 
discipline and order. A paternal government extended its 
protection through lands hitherto a field for anarchy and slavery. 
The territory within my rule was purged from the slave trade. 
The natives of the great Shooli tribe, relieved from their 
oppressors, clung to the protecting government. The White 
KiJe, for a distance of 1,600 miles from Khartoum to Central 
Africa, was cleansed from the abomination of a traffic which 
had hitherto sullied its waters. 

Every cloud had passed away, and the term of my office 
expired in peace and sunshine. In this result, I humbly 
traced God's blessing. 



FINI8. 



APPENDIX. 



A FE"W extracts from tlie valuable work of Dr. Sdiweinfurtb. will 
throw a light upon the spirit which animated the authorities, all of 
whom were incensed at my having presumed to understand the 
IQiedive's orders literally respecting the suppression of the slave 
trade. 

In page 485, vol. ii., he writes : — *' The ill-feeling and smothered 
rage against Sir Samuel Baker's interference nurtured by the higher 
authorities, breaks out very strongly amongst the less reticent 
lower officials. In Fashoda, and even in Khartoum, I heard com- 
plaints that we (the Franks) were the prime cause of all the 
trouble, and if it had not been for our eternal agitation with the 
Viceroy, such measures would never have been enforced." 

In page 477, vol. ii., he continues: — "Notwithstanding that Sir 
Samuel Baker was still on the upper waters of the river, the idea 
was quite prevalent in all the seribas, that as soon as the ' English 
Pacha ' had turned his back upon Fashoda (the government station 
in the Shillook country), the mudir (governor) would relapse into 
his former habits, and levy a good round sum on the head of every 
slave, and then let the contraband stock pass without more ado. 
But for once the seriba people were reckoning without their host. 
The mudir had been so severely reprimanded by Baker for his 
former delinquencies, that he thought it his best policy, for this 
year at least, to be as energetic as he could in his exertions against 
the forbidden trade." 

In page 470, vol. ii., Dr. Schweinfurth writes : — "I knew that 
Sir Samuel Baker was upon the Upper Nile, and did not doubt 
that his presence would have the effect of making the government 
take the most strenuous measures against any import of slaves." 

Page 429, vol. ii. : — "Before Sir Samuel Baker's expedition put 
a stop to it altogether, the slave trade that was carried on down the 
river was quite insignificant compared to the overland traffic." 
"For years there has been a public prohibition against bringing 
slaves down the White Nile iiito Khartoum, and ever and again 



474 



APPENDIX. 



stronger repressive measures have been introduced, which, however, 
have only had the effect of raising the land traffic to a j)remium ; 
but as a general rule, the Egyptian officials connive at the use of 
this comparatively unimportant channel of the trade, and pocket a 
quiet little revenue for themselves by demanding a sum varying 
from two to five dollars a head as hush-money." 

In page 429, vol. ii. : — " The expedition of Sir Samuel Baker has 
stopped the source." 

In page 410, vol. ii.. Dr. Schweinfurth writes: — "Already had 
Sir Samuel Baker, with praiseworthy energy, commenced scouring 
the waters of the Upper Nile, and by capturing all slave-vessels 
and abolishing a large ' chasua ' belonging to the mudir (governor) 
of Fashoda, had left no doubt as to the earnestness of his pur- 
pose," &c. 

In page 83, vol. i. : — "Beyond the true eastern shore, the Dinka 
are said to be settled in extensive villages, and at that time still 
furnished an inexhaustible supply of slaves to the marauding expe- 
ditions of the garrison of Fashoda. In 1870 Baker succeeded in 
putting an end to this disorder, the knowledge of which penetrated 
to the most remote tribes." 

The evidence of so trustworthy a traveller as Dr. Schweinfurth 
is exceedingly valuable, as he was in the AVestern Nile districts at 
the time that I was actively engaged ; thus he had opportunities of 
witnessing the results of my interference, and the hostility exhibited 
by the authorities. He is simply in error concerning the import- 
ance of the slave trade of the river, which he much underrates, as 
will have already been seen by the fact of 700 slaves being stowed 
away upon only three vessels belonging to Abou Saood. 

These vessels, that were captui^ed by my orders at Fashoda, on 
their way towards Khartoum, were an example of the truth foretold 
by the traders with whom Dr. Schweinfurth was travelling in the 
west — "that as soon as the English Pacha had turned his back 
upon Fashoda, the governor would relapse into his former habits, 
and levy a good round sum on the head of ever}' slave, and then let 
the contraband cargo pass without more ado." 

There were always well-known slave routes through Kordofan, 
but these channels became of extreme importance when I rendered 
the slave trafiic of the river impossible. 

It is quite unnecessary to write more on the subjecj of the slave 
trade. The Khedive of Egypt was sincere when he gave me the 
orders to suppress this horrible traffic ; and I trust, from the simple 
description of the expedition, the world will acknowledge that in 
this duty I exhibited the utmost leniency towards the ruffianly 
lessees of the Soudan government. 

I am convinced that the Khedive is sincere at heart in -wdshing 
to suppress the slave trade, but he requires unusual moral courage 
to enter the lists single-handed against Egyptian public opinion. 



APPENDIX. 



475 



Missionary Laboue. 

My opinion has been frequently asked on this subject, and many 
have endeavoured to j^ersuade me that a rapid change and improve- 
ment of the natives may be effected by such an agency. I cannot 
resist by argument such fervent hopes ; but if good and capable 
men are determined to make the attempt, they may now be assured 
of peace and security at Gondokoro, where they will have the 
advantage of the good name left by the excellent but unfortunate 
members of the late Austrian mission. 

Geogeapiiy. 

I have not changed my opinions that have already been expressed 
in " The Albert N'yanza," except that, from the native testimony, 
I presume there must be a channel which connects either a lake or 
series of lakes with the Albert N'yanza. 

Without a guide, it would be a work of much time and difficulty 
to discover the true channel among the labyrinth-like inlets that 
characterize the vast beds of floating water-grass. 

Many jenrs ago, when at Magungo, on the Albert N'yanza, I 
could not at first believe that the raft-choked entrance of the 
Victoria Nile in apparently dead water v/as indeed the mouth of 
that important river. My subsequent experience in the marshy and 
lacustrine Bahr Giraffe has confirmed my impressions of the extreme 
difficulty of deciding upon the non-existence of a channel until after 
a lengthened investigation. 

I cannot conceive that the Lualaba of Li^^ingstone can be in- 
cluded within the Nile Basin. Livingstone decided the level of the 
Tanganyika lake to be within 72 feet of my level of the Albert 
N'yanza. With the same instruments he determined the altitude 
of the Lualaba to be lower than the Albert N'yanza, thus showing 
the impossibility of a connection betvv^een that river as an affluent 
with the lake. 

1 will not presume to assert that the Lualaba is a source of the 
Congo, as I have a strong objection to geographical theories or 
assertions unless proved by actual inspection, but if Livingstone's 
observations for altitude are correct, it is impossible that the 
Lualaba can be connected with the Nile.^ 

Dr. Schweinfurth's discovery of the Welle river flowing towards 
the west, between the 3rd and 4th deg. N. lat., is a clear proof that 
no rivor can be running from the south to the north-east towards 
th Nile Basin, otherwise the Welle river would be intersected. 

in page 186, vol. ii., Dr. Schweinfurth writes: — "Its course 
[the Lualaba], indeed, was towards the north; but Livingstone was 

1 Mr. Stanley's discoveries since this was written have coiifirmed my 
suppositions. 

2 " The Heart of Africa." 



476 



APPENDIX. 



manifestly in error wlien lie took it for a true source of the Nile, a 
supposition that might have some semblance of foundation origin- 
ating in the inexplicable volume of the -^ater of Lake MVootan 
(Albert N'yanza), but which was negatived completely as soon as 
more ample investigation had been made as to the comparative 
level, direction, and connection of other rivers, especially of the 
Welle. 

Although Dr. Schweinfurth was unprovided with astronomical 
instruments, we may place thorough reliance in the integrity and 
ability of this traveller, who has taken the greatest pains to arrive 
at true conclusions. I am quite of his opinion, that the Well6 is 
outside the Nile Basin, and drains the western watershed. 

In a letter from Dr. Livingstone addressed to Sir Bartle Frere, 
dated Lake Bangweolo, 27th Nov. 1870, he writes: — "The Tan- 
ganj^ka, whose majestic flow I marked by miles and miles of 
confervee and other aquatic vegetation for three months during my 
illness at Ujiji, is, with the lower Tanganyika, discovered by Baker, 
a riverine lake from twenty to thirty miles broad." 

It is thus clear that Livingstone considered that the Tanganyika 
and the Albert N'yanza were one water. On 30th May, 1869, 
dated Ujiji, he writes to Dr. Kirk: — " Tanganvika, N'zige Chow- 
ambe (Baker ?) are one water, and the head of it' is 300 miles south 
of this." 

"The majestic flow" of confervse remarked by Livingstone on 
the Tanganyika is beyond my comprehension, if that vast lake has 
no outlet at the north. 

In Livingstone's letter of 27th Nov., 1870, he writes : — "Speke's 
great mistake was the pursuit of a foregone conclusion. "When he 
discovered the Victoria N'yanza he at once leaped to the conclusion 
that therein lay the sources ; but subsequently, as soon as he and 
Grant looked to the N'yanza, they turned their backs on the Nile 
fountains. Had they doubted the correctness of the conclusion, 
they would have come west into the trough of the great valley, and 
found there mighty streams, not eighty or ninety yards, as their 
White Nile, but from 4,000 to 8,000 yards, and always deep." 

I was surprised that Livingstone could make such an error in 
quoting Speke's White Nile from the Victoria N'yanza as eighty or 
ninety yards in width ! At M'rooli, in latitude N. 1"^ 37'', I have 
seen that magniflcent river, which is at least a thousand yards in 
width, with a great depth. I have travelled on the river in canoes, 
and in the narrowest i:)laces, where the current is naturally increased, 
the width is at least 300 yards. 

From my personal experience I must strenuously uphold the 
Victoria Nile as a source of enormous volume, and should it ever 
be proved that the distant afiluents of the M'wootan N'zige are the 
most remote, and therefore the nominal sources of the Nile, the 
great Victoria N'yanza must ever be connected ^N^ith the names of 
Speko and Grant as one of the majestic parents of the Nile Basin. 

Latterly, when speaking of the Lualaba, Livingstone writes to 



APPENDIX. 



477 



Sir Henry Eawlinson : — "The drainage clearly did not go into 
Tanganyika, and that lake, though it j^robably has an outlet, lost 
all its interest to me as a source of the river of Egypt." 

We are, therefore, completely in the dark concerning the flow of 
¦water from the Lualaba south of the equator, and of Schweinf urth's 
Welle north of the equator, but both these large rivers were tend- 
ing to the same direction, north-west. The discovery of these two 
rivers in about the same meridian is a satisfactory proof of the 
western watershed, which completely excludes them from the Nile 
Basin. If the Tanganyika lake has no communication with the 
Albert N'yanza, the old Nile is the simple offspring of the two 
parents — the Yictoria and the Albert lakes.' 

When the steamer that I left at Gondokoro in sections shall be 
launched upon the Albert N'yanza, this interesting question will be 
quickly solved. 

Early in November, 1871, when I was on the Nile south of 
Eegiaf, I noticed the peculiar change that suddenly took place in 
the river. We were then in N. lat. 4° 38'', below the last cataracts, 
where the water was perfectly clear and free from vegetation, with 
a stream of about three and a half or four miles per hour. 

Suddenly the river became discoloured by an immense quantity 
of the Pistia Stratiotes, of which not one plant was entire. 

This aquatic plant invariably grows in either dead water or in the 
most sluggish stream, and none existed in the part of the river at 
N. lat. 4:\'38'\ 

I examined many of the broken plants, which, instead of floating 
as usual on the surface, were mingled in enormous quantities with 
the rushing waters. None were rotten, but they had evidently 
been carried down the numerous rocky waterfalls which occupy the 
interval between N. lat. 3° 34'' and 4" 38", and were thus bruised 
and torn asunder. 

The extraordinary influx of damaged aquatic plants continued 
for many days, and unmistakably denoted the rise "in the level of 
the Albert N'j^anza at that season (say 1st Nov.). Above the falls, 
in N. lat. 3° 32", there is very little current in the broad deep Nile ; 
and in about N. lat. 3° this river is several miles in width, with no 
perceptible stream. In those propitious calms the Pistia Stratiotes 
grows in vast masses along the shores, and the annual rise of the 
lake creates a current which carries the plants towards the cataracts, 
and consequent destruction. 

By this sign I conclude that the maximum of the Albert N'yanza 
¦would be during the month of November. 

1 This is now proved to be the case. 



478 



APPENDIX. 



La^'guages, 

Tlie following list of words will afford, a fair example of (lie 
differences in language of the yarions tribes between Gondokoro 
and the equator : — 





Lobore. 


Bari. 


Sliooli. 


Unyoro. 


A foNvl 


A-oo. 


Chokore. 


Gweno. 


Unkoko. 


A mat 


GaUaca. 


Tero. 


Kaboone. 


— 


Flour 


Arafoo. 


Bolo. 


jMocha. 


Obsano. 


Fire 


Arsi. 


Kemang. 


ilai. 


iMoora. 


Water 


Yee. 


Feeunr. 


Pee. 


]Maizi. 


Milk 


Leh. 


Leh. 


Chak. 


Amattai. 


A GOV/ 


Tee. 


Kitraig. 


Deaug. 


Inte. 


A bull 


MonilvO. 


Moui. 


Tu-au. 




A dog 


Orke. 


Diorig. 


Guuoah. 


— 


Rain 


lee. 


Koodoo. 


Koit. 


lujoore. 
3iusanne. 


The sun 


Yetakali. 


Karlojig. 


Tscheu. 


A chief 


Orpi. 
Kabeelo. 


3.1attat. 


Ruort. 


Matongali 


A sheep 


Kabisho. 


Ramo. 


Inibuzi. 


A goat 


Indree. 


Keene. 


L>eall. 


Inibuzi. 


The moon 


Imbrdi. 


Y art ah. 


Dooe. 


Quezi. 


The stars 


Beebi. 


Katchikoo 


Lakori. 


Nynerzi. 


Flesh 


Isah. 


Lokore. 


Rengo. 




Dhun-a (corn) 


Asih. 


Keemak. 


Gyah. 




A basket 


Evoch. 


Soodah. 


Adooku. 




Beads 


Meeoh. 


Sooksook. 


Teko. 


Unguauze 


Coracau Eleusiue . . . 


Locjue. 




Kaal. 


Burroi. 





Unyoro. 


j Unyoro. 


A tree 


Bisrde. 


Halt 


Indeenda. 


Far off 


Arrfdee. 


Go away 


Trdsa Genda. 


Near 


Aiee. 


Come here 


Igghia. 


Not far 


Ampi. 


Sit down 


In-karra-hanze. 


A house 


Engooi. 


Get up 


Im-mookka. 


Plantains 


Bitoki. 


A man 


jMoosegga. 
I\Iookuzze. 


Beans 


Koh. 


A woman 


Bntter 


31aggitil. 


A girl 


i\Iiss-soold. 


A canoe 


Obwuto. 


A boy 


Um-wana, 


A paddle 


Enguiee. 


A thief 


Moosumil. 


A mountain . . . 


Orsozi. 


Fish 


( Luburi or 


The earth 


Intrd<ii. 


( Enchoa. 


The sky 


Iggohr. 


i Wood 


Bitl. 


A road"or path 


aMiuianda. 


Eggs 


Yooli. 


Go on 


Togendi. 







APPENDIX. 



479 



Domestic Animals. 

It is a singular fact that, altliougli the domestic ox, sheep, and 
fowls are found everywhere among the negroes of Central Africa, 
there is no trace of the original stock among the wild animals of 
the country. The question arises — where did they come from ? 

Dogs are domesticated, and are used by the natives in their 
hunts. Those of Central Africa are miserable pariahs, but they are 
nevertheless much prized by their owners. 

After the attack at Fatiko by the slave-hunters, which resulted 
in the dispersion of their party, upwards of 170 dogs became house- 
less. The natives asked my permission to capture them, and, 
having spread their hunting-nets, they drove the dogs as they 
would wild animals, and daily secured a great number, which they 
trained to hunt the calves of antelojDCS and the great grass-rat 
(Aidacodus Swinderninnus). 

Negroes have no sympathy with the young^ of wild animals, and 
I have never seen a pet animal or bird in their villages. Although 
I offered two cows for every young elephant they might catch, I 
never could prevail upon them to spare the little ones. Five were 
speared ruthlessly in 3ne day, within two or three hours' march of 
Fatiko. A negro is never seen without his spear, and he finds the 
greatest pleasure in sticking it into either something or somebody. 

Diseases. 

Small-pox is prevalent. Cholera rarely attacks the country, but 
it is known. Dysentery is very common in the White Nile districts, 
but it is rare in the highlands. This complaint is generally fatal 
at'Gondokoro. Great caution should bo used, and impure water 
avoided. Marsh fever is the general complaint of the low ground, 
but is rare in the highlands of Fatiko and Unyoro. 

I have never met with typhoid fevers in Central Africa, although 
they are common at Khartoum. 

Measles, whooping-cough, scarlatina, croup, diphtheria, are quite 
unknown. 

Blindness is only the result of extreme age, and is very rare. I 
never saw a case of mania, nor have I ever met more than one idiot 
in Central Africa. The brain appears to be exercised as a simple 
muscle of the body, and is never overstrained by deep thought or 
by excessive study. There are no great commercial or parliamentary 
anxieties; no struggles to keep up appearances and position in 
society against the common enemy, " small means ; " no hearts to 
break with overwhelming love ; but the human beings of Central 
Africa live as animals, simply using the brain as a director of their 
daily wants. Thus in their simple state they never commit suicide 
and never go mad. Their women never give birth to cripples or 
monsters, as the sympathetic uterus continues in harmony with the 
healthy brain. 



480 



APPENDIX. 



I have seen only two dwarfs. These were in Unyoro, one of 
whom was described by Speke (Kimenya): he is since dead. The 
other was at the court of Kabba Ecga, named Eakoomba. Wo 
measured this little fellow, who was exactly three feet and half-an- 
inch in height, at the age of about eighteen years. 

The teeth are remarkable throughout Central Africa. I have 
examined great numbers of skulls, and I never found a decayed 
tooth. Many tribes extract the four front teeth of the lower jaw. 
The bone then closes, and foiTas a sharp edge like the jaw of a 
turtle. 

Mammalia. 1 

The principal animals and birds in the Shooli countrj^ are 



Native name. 

GazcUa dcana Lajooar. 

jS'a)iotrrrr/''s hempricliiaiuis .... Amoor. 

Cervicapra Icncotis Teel. ^_ 

Cervicopra elUpsiprynum Apoolli. 

Cervicapra arundiuacea Oboor. 

Alcelaphxs bubal is Poora. 

Tragclaphus script us Eoda. 

Kippoacacjus Bakeri Aboori. 

Camelopardalls giraffa Eee. 

PAffC0c/;f5?v<s (Riipp) (Wart-hog) . . Kool. 

Jios caffer Joobi. 

Elephas Afrlcanus Letch. 

Jthinoccros bicornis Oomooga. 

Felis Ico. . Lobohr. 

Feh's leopard MS . • Qmitch. 

"Wild dog, ipvobahly (Li/cao)i pictHs) . . . Orara. 

Jackal . . Roodi. 

Hyccna crocuta . Laluha. 

Man is Tcmminckii Mooak. 

Hystrix sp , . . Cho. 

Viverra gcnetta Gnonge, 

Felis caracal , . Quorra. 

Herpestes striatus ...... Juang. 

Strut hio camelns Oodo. 

Lcptoptilus crumenijirus Kicooni. 

Byrax sp Dooka. 

Aulacodus Swindernianus, or great reed-rat . Neeri. 

Eupodotes sp Apodo. 

Kumida meleugris (?) Owc'no. 

Francolinus sp. (?) Aweri. 



The zebra exists in the Shooli country, but is very rare. Hippo- 
potami are to be found in the Asua river. 

On the borders of the White Nile we find the Cervicapra mcfjaaros 
and the beautiful Damalis Seneyahnsis, which I had sujiposed was 
a now species when I first secured it on the banks of the Bahr 
Giraffe. 

1 Mr. Sclater, of the Zoological Society of London, has furnished me with 
the scientific names of the antelopes and other mammals. 



APPENDIX. 



481 



Nothing new lias been actually discovered during the expedition, 
and there can be nothing existing as an animal that is not well 
known to the natives, with whom I constantly associated ; therefore 
there is little hope of unknown species, excepting the wild dog 
known by the Shooli as " Orara." 



The botanical collection, made entirely by Lady Baker, was 
handed to the Khedive of Egypt, therefore I regret that I cannot 
describe it. 

Liberated Slaves. 

Upon arrival at Gondokoro with our party, we wore shortly 
visited by the Bari father of little Cuckoo, who had travelled seven 
hundred miles with us. In a year and a half Cuckoo had grown 
immensely, and being in a good suit of clothes, he was with diffi- 
culty recognized by his savage-looking parent, who had parted 
with him as a naked, ash-smeared little urchin of between six and 
seven years old. 

I am sorry to say that Cuckoo did not meet his father with an 
affectionate embrace, but at first positively refused to go with him ; 
and when compelled to accompany him as a prodigal son and 
wanderer, he dug his knuckles into his eyes and began to cry. 
Poor little Cuckoo knew that the days of beef and good cooking 
had passed away. He expressed his determination to run away 
from his father and to return to us ; but as his home was on the 
west bank of the Nile, we never saw Cuckoo again. 

The boys and young women whom I had liberated from the 
slave -hunters, and who had acted as domestic servants, were well 
cared for at the close of the expedition, and I secured them situa- 
tions with well-known respectable families in Cairo and Alexandria. 
Amarn, the Abyssinian boy, who in intelligence had been far in 
advance of the negro lads, accompanied his mistress to England at 
his express request, where he is now regularly installed in our own 
household. The ulcerated leg from which he had suffered for two 
years in Africa, was soon cured by the kind attention of the surgeons 
of St. George's Hospital, shortly after his arrival in London.^ 

A Few Hints. 

I shall give the following hints as they occurred to me, and as I 
noted them down at the time when in Africa : — 

Medicine Chest. — Should be of teak, covered with zinc, with copper 
edges and corners. The bottom should be first covered externally, 
to enable the wet to drain off without touching the wood. The 
expensive canteens purchased of Messrs. Silver and Co., although 

1 Amarn has now grown into a young man of about IS or 19. He is a 
Christian, and in general good conduct and integrity he has set a bright , 
example to English servants and is respected by all classes. 

I I 



4S2 



APPENDIX. 



coTered with metal on tlie top and sides, had no metal beneath ; 
thus they vrere a prey to damp and insects. 

All bottles in mediciue chest should have numbers engraved on 
the glass to correspond with an index painted on the inside of the 
lid. Insects and damp quickly destroy gilding or ordinary paper 
labels. 

Seidlitz powders and all effervescent medicines should be x^ackod 
in "^^ide-mouthed, stoj^pered bottles, but never in papers. 

Matches. — Bryant and May's " Victoria Matches " will stand the 
damp of the tropics beyond all others. 

Tarpaulins. — Should be true mackintosh; but no other prej)aration 
of india-rubber will stand the heat of the troj)ics. No. 2 canvas 
painted is better than any j^reparation of tar, which sticks when 
folded together. 

All tarpaulins should be 12 feet square, with large metal eyelet 
holes and strong lines. If larger, they are too heavy. 

Bottles. — All wine or liquor bottles should have the necks dipped 
in bottle-v\-ax thickly. Metallic capsules will be bitten through and 
the corks destroyed b}^ cockroaches. 

Milk. — Crosse and Blackwell's " liquid cream " is excellent. That 
of the Anglo-Swiss Company was good at the commencement, but 
it did not keep sweet after two years. 

Blwes and Boots. — Shoes are better than laced boots, as the latter 
give much trouble. The soles should not be too thick, and should 
be studded with sharp nails. Two pairs of long, brown leather 
boots to reach above the knee are useful for riding. All shoes 
should be kept in light canvas bags, tightly tied at the mouth to 
protect them from insects. 

Dry Stores. — Should all be hermetically sealed, and great care 
should be observed in soldering the tin cases. — This is frequently 
neglected, and the result of careless soldering is ruin to all biscuits, 
flour, sago, macaroni, &c. 

Ammunition. — xill cartridges should be taken from England 
loaded ; and for private use thej should be hermetically sealed in 
boxes containing one hundred each if small, or fifty if large. 

Five hundred snider cartridges, in teak boxes lined \^ith soldered 
tin, weigh 641bs. each, and can be carried on the journey by one 
native. 

CasJcs of wood are unsuited for African travel ; small beetles 
perforate them. Galvanized iron flattened kegs are useful for 
carrying water through the desert. For camels which carry four 
casks they should contain ten gallons each ; for mules, eight 
gallons. 

Plates, (C'c. — All plates, cuj)s, saucers, dishes, &c., should be 
enamelled on metal. 

Saiicepans, l-ettJes, (fr. — should be copper. 

Drinking cups should be silver, to contain one pint or more, and 
to flt into each other. 

A tankard with a very strong hinge to the lid is invaluable to 
keep out flies, but the servants will probably wrench the lid off. 



APPENDIX. 



483 



Boxes. — Do not attempt to spare money in boxes. They sliould 
be of tlie stoutest block tin, or of copper, well painted. Tradesmen 
are apt to do you in the hinges. 

All boxes should lock with trass locks. Shun padlocks. A 
master-key should oj)Gn all your boxes, even should you have a 
thousand. Each box should have a pierced metal label slung "uith 
wire upon each iron handle. Painted numbers quickly wear out. 

My boxes measured tiuenty-tivo inches long, twelve inches deep, 
fourteen broad. These were quite invaluable throughout the 
expedition. 

Ouns and rifles must depend ui)on individual tastes. Never 
possess such an antiquated affair as a muzzle-loader. 

Hollow bullets are quite useless for thick-skinned animals. I 
like No. 10 rifles, with chambers to contain a cartridge with ten 
drachms No. 6 powder. Such a rifle must weigh fifteen pounds to 
shoot accurately. 

Axes. — All axes, picks, hoes, &c., should have oval holes, but 
nearly circular, to receive the handles. Natives will break any 
civilized method of fitting. 

Every soldier should carry a very small, long-bladed, but narrow 
hatchet of soft steel. 

Feathers. — Preserve all feathers of game, taking care to strip them 
from the stems, for making pillows. 

The large wing-feathers of geese, bustards, &c., make dusting- 
brushes, fans, quill toothpicks, &c. 

Hales rochets. — Those which explode are invaluable. Six and 
three-pounders are large enough, and are handy to carry. 

Norton's jnimjjs were of no use except in sandy or gravelly soil, 
and they did not equal my expectations. 

Blue lights are quite invaluable if fitted with percussion caps. 
They should be packed in a strong tin box, with partitions to con- 
tain a dozen ; to be placed near j^our bed at night. 

Lamps. — Should burn either oil or candles. 

Burning glasses are very useful if really good. The inner bark 
of the fig-tree, well beaten and dried in the sun, makes excellent 
tinder. 

Mosquito gaiters or stocMngs should be wide, of very soft leather, 
to draw over the foot and leg quite up to the thigh joint. These are 
a great comfort when sitting during the evening. 

Tanned goods. — All tents, awnings, sails, nets, lines, &c.j should 
be tanned, to preserve them in African climates. 

Boohs. — All journals and note-books should be tinted paper, to 
preserve the eyes from the glare, which is very trying v/hen writing 
in the open air upon white paper. 

Seeds. — Should be simply packed in brown paj)er parcels sewn up 
in canvas, and should 7iever he hermetically sealed. 

Blood. — ^When meat is scarce do not waste the blood. Clean out 
the large intestine of an animal if far from camj). This will contain 
a considerable quantity, and can bo easily secured by a ligature at 
each end. i i 2 



484 



APPENDIX. 



Fish can be preserved without salt, by smoke. Thej sbould be split 
down the back (not the belly) from head to tail, and be smoked upon 
a framework of sticks immediately when caught. Pour forked 
sticks, driven into the ground as uprights to support two parallel 
poles, crossed with bars, vdll fomi a framework about three feet 
high ; the fire is beneath. All fish and flesh is thus preserved by 
the natives when hunting. 

Salt. — AVhen efflorescent on the surface of the soil, scrape with a 
spoon or shell, and collect it with as little sand as possible. Cut a 
hole two inches square in the bottom of a large earthen pot, cover 
the hole with a little straw, then fill the pot with the salt and sand. 
Pour water slowly over this, and allow it to filter into a receiver 
below. Boil the product until the water has evaporated, then 
spread the wet salt upon a cloth to dry in the sun. 

Potash. — If you have no salt, treat wood ashes or those of grass 
in the same way. 

Oil. — All seeds or nuts that v/ill produce oil should be first 
roasted like coffee, then ground fine my>oti a flat stone, and boiled 
with water. The oil then rises to the surface, and is skimmed off. 
Unless the nuts or seeds are roasted, the boiling water will not 
extract the oil. 

Crutches. — To make impromptu crutches to assist wounded men 
upon a march, select straight branches that grow with a fork. Cut 
them to the length required, and lash a small piece of wood across 
the fork. This, if wound with rag, will fit beneath the arm, and 
make a good crutch. 

In this manner I brought my wounded men along on the march 
from Masiudi. 

Tamarinds. — "\Vhenever possible, collect this valuable fruit. Take 
off the shell, and press the tamarinds into lumps of about two 
pounds. They will keep in this simple form for many months, and 
are invaluable in cases of fever — cooling when drunk cold, and 
sudorific when taken hot. If taken in quantity, they are aperient. 



GEOGEAPHICAL NOTES. 



48S 



APPENDIX. 



Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker. 



Place. 



Ismaili'a 



Beliiiian 







Thermometer. 








Date. 






Rain- 
fall. 


Wind. 


Remarks. 


















6 A.M. 


Noon. 








1871. 












Aug. 


1 


70 


80 




variable 


Liglit. 




2 


73 


82 








3 


72 


80 


•29 








4 
5 
6 


72 
74 
73 


82 
82 
84 




J) 

J 3 
J> 






7 


74 


80 


01 


J3 






8 


74 


80 




51 
55 






9 


74 


78 








10 


72 


76 


•22 


iS.W. 


Light. 




11 


72 


82 




\V. 






12 


74 


85 




N.E. 






13 


74 


74 


•22 


N. 






14 


70 


84 




F. 






15 


75 


83 




S.W. 






16 


74 


80 


•21 


KE. 






17 


77 


74 


•56 


N.E. 






18 


72 


80 




E. 


Light. 


19 


74 


75 


•07 


variable 




20 


72 


82 




X.E. 






21 


72 


82 




vai-'able 




22 


73 


84 




N. 




!> 


23 


70 


84 




S W. 






24 


73 


85 




N. 




J) 


2.5 


75 


85 




N. 


Light. 


26 


75 


90 




variable 


J» 


27 


74 


85 








5) 


28 


73 


85 










29 


77 


86 










30 


76 


86 








31 


75 


85 


"12 






Sept. 


1 


72 


87 




N.E. 






2 


69 


72 


r7S 


S.W. 




35 


3 


70 


S3 








JJ 


4 


72 


85 




N. 




J> 


5 




86 








5> 


6 


71 


80 


rio 


CI 
D. 




7 


70 


8;) 




N. 


Li""ht. 


?) 


8 


75 


84 






9 


74 


74 


102 


S.E. 




55 


10 


72 


8^ 








11 

12 


72 
73 


87 

86 




N. 




J> 


]3 


72 


84 








J) 


14 


72 


84 









APPENDIX. 437 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker — continued. 







Thermometer. 






Date. 






Rain- 












fall. 








6 A.M. 


Noon. 






1871. 










Sept. 


15 


73 


78 




N.W. 




1 R 

lO 


70 


75 






?> 


17 


70 


80 








55 
55 
•1 


18 


70 


78 


3-20 






19 


68 


77 




vavialjle 




20 


72 


82 






5J 


21 


74 


81 




W. 


3> 


22 


72 


80 






JJ 


23 


72 


82 




N. 


3) 


24 


72 


83 




W. 


iJ 


25 


70 


85 








55 


26 


76 


85 








55 


27 


70 


78 








55 


28 


72 


82 




N. 




55 


29 


72 


82 




N.W. 




30 


73 


82 




N. 


Oct. 


I 


73 


84 




N. 




55 


2 


71 


85 




S. 




55 


3 


72 


84 






J? 


4 


72 


85 






55 


5 


73 


84 






55 


(5 


74 


90 








35 
55 
',1 


7 


75 


90 








3 
9 


75 
74 


8G 
80 


¦20 


S.W. 




10 


70 


90 




variable 






75 


86 




W. 


55 


12 


74 


88 






55 




75 


86 


•19 


s.w. 


1! 




72 


82 


ro4 






55 
55 
55 


15 


70 


84 


•OS 


s. 




16 


70 


85 




variable 




17 


70 


89 




N. 




IS 


70 


87 




N.W. 




5! 
',1 


19 


73 


86 




N. 




20 


74 


bo 




N. 


55 


21 


74 


87 




S.E. 


55 


22 


75 


84 




S. 


55 


23 


75 


82 




S. 


55 
55 


24 
25 


72 
71 


82 
84 




S. 

8. 


55 


26 


72 


82 




variable 


55 


27 


72 


84 




8. 


55 


28 


72 


82 




W. 


55 


29 


70 


86 




variable 



Remarks. 



Lio-iit. 



488 APPENDIX. 



Meteorological Register kept by Lady BxKBn—continued. 







Thermometer. 








Plixce. 


Date. 






Rain- 


Wind. 


Remarks. 










fall. 










6 A.M. 


Noon. 










1S71. 













Israaili'a ... 


Oct. 30 


74 


86 




N. 






„ 31 


74 


86 




N. 






Nov. 1 


72 


86 




S. 


Light. 




„ 2 


74 


87 




N. 








74 


82 




S. 






» 4 


72 


85 




variable 






J7 5 


72 


86 




S. 






„ 6 


76 


86 




s. 






» 7 


74 


87 




variable 






„ 8 


73 


86 


... 


S. 






„ 9 


73 


86 




variable 






„ 10 


74 


88 




S. 






„ 11 


74 


88 




N.E. 






„ 12 


72 


84 




S. 






„ 13 


76 


86 




N. 






„ 14 


74 


85 




variable 






„ 15 


75 


86 










„ 16 


70 


86 










„ 17 


73 


86 




S. 






„ 18 


73 


85 




N. . 






„ 19 


73 


86 




N.E. 






„ 20 


73 


90 




S. 






„ 21 


72 


92 




S. 






„ 22 


70 


88 




N. 






„ 23 


70 


90 




variable 






„ 24 


70 


90 




S. 






„ 25 


70 


90 




S. 






„ 26 


72 


90 




s. 






„ 27 


72 


89 




w. 






„ 28 


73 


89 










„ 29 


71 


89 




s. 






„ 30 


70 


90 




E. 






Dec. 1 


72 


90 




N. 






„ 2 


76 


88 


•40 


N. 






jj 


76 


77 




S.W. 






„ 4 


/5 


oo 


•20 


s.w. 






„ 5 


72 


84 




w. 








72 


87 




variable 






„ s 


70 
74 


90 
92 


•12 


N.E. 
N. 






„ *J 


76 


93 




N. 






„ 10 


72 


90 




variable 






„ 


76 


92 




S. 






„ 12 


74 


94 




S. 






„ 13 


74 


87 




S. 





APPENDIX. 4S9 



Meteoeological Register kept by Lady Baker— con^mwec/. 









Thermometer. 








Placo. 


Date. 






Rain- 


Wind. 


Remarks. 












- fall. 












6 A.M. 


Noon. 










1871. 






i 




Israaiaa ... 


Dec. 14 


70 


90 


•26 


S. 






J) 


15 


72 


88 




S.E. 








16 


70 


87 




S. 






jj 


17 


70 


90 




s.w. 






5) 


18 


75 


90 




variable 






?) 


19 


72 


93 










JJ 


20 


70 


90 




¦ S. 






;> 


21 


70 


90 




variable 






)) 


22 


74 


90 




W. 






5> 


23 


72 


88 




variable 






JJ 


24 


72 


88 




S. 








25 


68 


87 




N. 








26 


70 


90 




N. 








27 


70 


88 




N. 






« 


28 


69 


86 




variable 






)» 


29 


66 


90 




W. 






J) 
'1 


30 
31 


66 
66 


88 
88 




variable 






1872. 














Jan. 


1 


69 


90 




55 






j> 


2 


70 


90 










j> 

57 


3 


69 


90 










4 


70 


92 










J) 


5 


70 


90 










5) 


6 


70 


88 










JJ 


7 


70 


88 




N. 






'7 
5? 


8 


63 


80 




N. 






9 


63 


82 




N. 






JJ 
J5 


10 


65 


84 




N. 






11 


68 


92 




N. 






55 


12 


70 


90 




AV. 






5' 


13 


70 


90 




variable 






55 


14 


70 


88 




55 






55 
55 


15 
16 


70 
70 


88 
88 




w. 


Light. 




55 


17 


oy 


0(5 




s. 






55 


18 


69 


90 




N. 






55 


19 


66 


90 




variable 






55 


20 


72 


92 




N. 


Strong. 




55 


21 


72 


92 




S. 




55 


22 


80 


86 




S. 






55 


23 


74 


90 




variable 






55 


24 


80 


92 




55 






55 


25 


75 


89 




55 






?J 


26 1 


77 


92 









490 APPENDIX. 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker — continued. 



Place. 


Date. 




1872. 


T.af Qft' "NT 


Jan. 

55 


27 

28 




53 

;j 


29 
30 






31 




Feb. 


1 






2 




J J 






3 




51 


4 




55 


5 




55 


6 




55 


/ 

8 


T o4- A° oc '\r 

jjat. 4 zo IN . 


55 


9 




10 


Lat. 4° IS' N. 


11 


Lat. 4° 7' N. 


" 


12 


/ Lat. 4° 1 JN . 


13 


\ Lobore. 


?> 
55 
55 


14 




15 
16 




55 


17 




55 
55 
55 


18 
19 
20 




5) 


21 




55 


22 
23 




55 


24 




55 


25 




55 


26 




55 


27 




55 


28 
29 




Maicli 1 




?5 


2 




55 
55 


3 
4 




55 


5 


/Lat,:r7'N. 




6 


1 Shooa. 






(Lat..ri'N. 


55 


7 


I Fatiko. 


55 


8 




55 


9 




55 


10 



! Thermometer. 








! 




Rain- 


Wind. 


Remarks. 






fall. 






6 A.M. 


Noon. 








77 


88 




variable 


Light. 


77 


88 




AT 

JN. 


70 


92 








77 


88 




IST. 


Light. 


75 


90 




variable 


75 


90 




AT 
JN. 




72 


84 




AT 
JN. 




72 


86 




S. 


Light. 


74 


84 




variable 


70 


90 




p. 




70 


92 




E. 




70 


80 




S. 


Strong. 


71 


84 




variable 


Strong. 


64 


84 




N. 


64 


84 




N. 




66 


88 




variable 




66 


90 




N. 


Light. 


70 


90 




AT A"^ "WT 


68 


88 




AT "i"*?" 
JN . \ V . 




70 


86 




N.W. 




74 


87 




N.X. W. 




71 


81 




variable 




71 


87 




V/. 




69 


90 




variable 




72 


88 




AT 
JN. 


Strong. 


71 


83 




S.S.E. 


Strong. 


68 


88 




b.E. 


71 


85 




X. 




77 


SO 




N. 




69 


80 




A'ariable 




69 


86 




N. 




71 


86 




s. 


Strong. 


70 


82 






71 


80 




N. 


Strong. 


66 


80 




AT 

JN . 


70 


89 




variable 




69 


89 






Strong. 


69 


88 




E. 


68 


88 




S.E. 




69 


90 




.S.E. 




69 


89 




variable 




69 


88 




N. 




68 


85 




N. 




68 


85 




E. 





APPENDIX. 491 



Mlteorologioal Register kept by Lady Baker — continuQcl. 



\ 
\ 




Thermometer. 




^ 

1 




Place, 


Date. 






Rain- 


1 Wind. 












fall. 








G A.M. 


Noon. 








1 1872. 












Fatiko ... 


March 11 


68 


85 




E. 






12 


70 


84 




variable 






13 


70 


85 




E. 


Strong. 


i " 


14 


70 


74 




S.E. 






15 


65 


77 




S.E. 








16 


68 


81 




E. 


Strong. 






17 


70 


85 




S.E. 


Strong. 




" 


18 


70 


86 




vaiiable 






19 


70 


86 




E. 








20 


68 


80 




E. 






21 


66 


80 




variable 








22 


68 


82 




E. 




f Lat.2°16'N. 




23 


65 


80 




N.E. 




i Atada 


24 


65 


80 




E. 








25 


66 


78 




variable 








26 


64 


80 




N. 








27 


68 


82 




N. 








28 


68 


82 




E. 






" 


29 
30 


64 
64 


81- 
76 




N.E. 

S.E. 






April 


31 


64 


76 


... 


IST.E. 






1 


64 


80 




S. 


Light. 




5j 


2 


66 


78 


•23 


S.E. 




)> 


3 


64 


80 




S.E. 






55 


4 


65 


79 


1-50 


E. 








5 


64 


78 




S.E. 






55 


6 


65 


80 


•07 


E. 






55 


7 


64 


79 




E. 






55 


8 


65 


80 


•16 


E. 






55 


9 


66 


78 




N.E. 






55 


10 


64 


73 


•73 


variable 






55 


11 


66 


80 


•75 


S. 


Started for 




55 


12 


66 


73 


•23 


S. 


Masindi. 




55 


13 


65 


76 


•50 


variable 






55 


14 


64 


76 




E. 






55 


15 




78 




variable 






55 


16 


64 


80 




E. 






55 


17 


65 


79 




O.Jcj. 






55 


18 


68 


80 




S.E. 






55 
55 


19 


64 


78 


•23 


S.E. 






20 


65 


SO 




S.E. 






55 


21 


64 


80 


•48 


S.E. 






55 


22 


65 


78 




S. 






55 


23 


65 


78 




s. 


Light. 




24 


64 


78 




E. 





492 APPENDIX. 



Meteorological Register kept by Lady BAKE-R—contimted. 



Place. 


Dat ,\ 


Thermometer. 


Rain- 
faU. 


Wind. 


! 

1 Remarks. 


6 .A.M. 


^\ O ill. 




is: 


2. 












( Lat.1'45 jS . 


Apiil 


25 


64 


78 


'2o 


E. 


• 

Airiveci at 


( Jiaimcli. 


J? 


26 


64 


78 




E. 


^Masindi. 




5J 


27 


64 


78 


¦•\ 
2J 


E. 






JJ 


2S 


64 


72 




E. 






55 


29 


64 


72 


"IS 


E. 






5' 


30 


64 


73 


•o4 


S.E. 






May 


1 


62 


71 


•14 


w.s.w. 






55 


o 


64 


72 




S.W. 






55 


3 


62 


72 




S.E. 






5) 


4 


60 


73 




variable 


Li^ht. 




55 


5 


60 


74 




S. -A . 






55 


6 


62 


70 




S. 






55 


7 


61 


70 




s. 






55 


S 


60 


71 




S.E. 






55 


9 


62 


75 




S.E. 






55 


10 


60 


71 




S. 






55 


11 


60 


71 




s. 






55 


12 


61 


73 




s. 






55 


13 


62 


75 


•&2 


s. 






55 


14 


60 


71 




S.E. 






55 


15 


60 


73 




w. 






55 


16 


60 


71 


•51 


s.w. 






55 


17 


60 


70 


•10 


s.w. 






55 


18 


60 


70 


•56 


s. 


Light. 




55 


19 


59 


70 




s.w. 




55 


20 


60 


71 


•22 


s.w. 






55 


21 


oy 


'7f\ 




s.w. 






55 


22 


59 




•30 


w. 


Strong. 




55 


23 


60 




•36 


s. 


Strong. 




55 


24 


59 


71 




V XT" 
iN .Hi. 




55 


25 


59 


71 




N.W. 






55 


26 


65 


69 


.30 


variable 






55 


27 


63 


72 


•SO 


W. 


Light. 




55 


28 


64 


69 


•23 


W. 






29 


64 


72 


1-0) 


W. 






55 


30 


62 


72 










55 


31 


60 


70 


•60 


s. 





APPENDIX. 493 



Meteorological Pvegister kept by Lady Baker — continued. 



Place. 


Date. 


Thermometer. 


Wind. 


Rain.— Remarks. 






6 A.M. 


Noon. 




Masincii 


1872. 
June 1 

55 2 

„ 3 

6 
7 

55 8 


64 
64 

64 
65 
62 
64 
64 


74 
69 
74 
76 
70 
70 
70 


s. 

S.Vf. 

s. 

w. 
w. 

N.E. 


Strong. 


Fatiko 


55 ^ 

,5 10 

Aug. 11 

55 12 
55 13 
55 14 
55 1-5 
55 IS 
55 17 

„ 18 

55 19 
55 20 

5, 21 
55 22 
55 23 

„ 24 

55 25 
55 2 6 
55 27 
55 28 
55 29 

55 30 
55 31 

Sept. 1 

55 2 
,5 3 

55 4 
55 

55 " 

,5 7 
,5 8 
,5 9 


65 
05 
65 
64 
64 
63 
63 
65 
03 
05 
05 
05 
00 
04 
05 
06 
66 
06 
64 
65 
65 

63 

63 
oo 
63 
66 
66 
06 
06 
06 
02 


75 
75 
86 
75 
83 
83 
83 
78 
78 
83 
84 
79 
84 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
83 
83 

78 

79 

Ou 

80 
80 
79 
79 
79 
86 


N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
In. 
N. 
N. 
S. 
N. 
N. 

S. 
S. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 
N. 

N. 

N. 
N. 
N. 
S. 

VY . 

N. 
N. 

variable 


Rained hard. 
Light. 

Rained heavily at night. 
Rained in the night. 

Rained in the night. 
Plained in the night. 

Heavy rain at night. 
Light rain. 
Rained at night. 
Heavy rain. " 
Rained in the night. 
Heavy rain. 
Rained in the night. 
Showery. 
Rained'all night. 

i Light rain from 1 p.m. till 
\ p P.M., and at night. 
Rained all the afternoon. 

Heavy rain at night. 
Light rain during the day. 

kjllU uuiy. 

A shower in the night. 
A shower in the night. 




„ 10 
„ 11 

,5 12 
5, 13 


03 
66 
06 


8) 
79 
86 
86 


N. 

S. 

s. 


Heavy rain early. 



494 APPENDIX. 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker — continued. 



Place. 



Fatiko 



Date. 



iliemionicter. 



Wind. 





6 A.M. 


Noon. 




2. 








14 


66 


86 


K". 


15 


66 


88 


variable 


16 


66 


86 


E. 


17 


63 


84 


E. 


18 


66 


86 


N.W. ¦ 


19 


66 


86 


variable 


20 


63 


80 




21 


66 


86 




22 


66 


88 


variable 


23 


66 


74 


N. 


24 


66 


80 


N. 


25 


66 


80 


variable 


26 


65 


80 


S.E. 


27 


66 


84 


N.W. 


28 


66 


86 


N.W. 


29 


65 


85 


S.E. 


30 


63 


84 


S.E. 


1 


65 


84 


variable 


2 


66 


84 




3 


66 


86 


S.E. 


4 


63 


86 


E. 


5 


72 


86 


E. 


6 


70 


88 


E. 


7 


72 


90 


S.E. 


8 


72 


90 


E. 


9 


72 


80 


N. 


10 


63 


81 


JN. 


11 


63 


81 


variable 


12 


66 


8i 




13 


63 


84 


5) 


14 


66 


86 




15 


66 


84 




16 


65 


86 


E. 


17 


66 


77 


N. 


IS 


66 


86 


N. 


19 


63 


79 


variable 


20 


64 


79 


N. 


21 


65 


81 


N. 


22 


66 


81 


N. li:j:bt 


23 


66 


86 


E. strong: 


24 


72 


90 


variable 


25 


72 


90 


N. 


26 


72 


86 


N. 



Rain.— Remarks. 



A shower. 

Rained during the night. 
Heavy raui at nighb. 
Slight rain at night. 

A shower. 

Light rain during the night. 
Shght rain at night. 



Heavy rain at night. 
Heavy rain at night. 
Rained diirin;;- the night. 



Light rain at night. 
Light rain at night. 
I lieavy shower in after- 
\ noon, and liglit at night. 
R.uned during the night. 

A shower at night. 
Liglit ram at night. 
Light rain at night. 
A shower at night. 
Rained durhig tlie niglit. 
( From 3-30 p.m. till 6 p.m., 
\ and during the niglit. 



APPENDIX. 495 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Bicker— conihuied. 



Date. 



1872. 
Oct. 27 

„ 28 

„ 29 



Nov. 



Dec. 



31 
] 

2 
3 
4 
5 



7 

8 
9 

10 

11 
12 
13 
14 
15 

16 

17 

18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 



26 

27 
28 
29 
30 
1 
2 



Thermometer. 



64 
62 

63 

61 

65 
66 
65 
66 
66 



64 

65 
66 
72 

72 

66 
61 
61 
61 
66 

66 

63 

60 
63 
66 
61 
63 
66 
65 

66 



61 

65 
65 
65 
66 
66 
66 



Nuoii. 



77 
79 

SO 

79 

82 
86 
84 
84 

9 a 

90 
83 { 

90 ¦ 

88 
90 

90 j 

88 
86 
86 
88 
90 

86 



84 
84 
84 
86 
90 
90 

80 

84 

82 
79 
84 
84 



Wind. 



variab'e 



S F.. 
S.E.- 
E. 
E. 
N. 
E.by S. 
S.E. 
strong 
S.E. 
B. stroni 

E. 
variable 

light 
E. strong 



N. light 

N.E. 

variable 
S.E. 
E. 

E. strong 
E. light 

variable 

S.E. 

S. 

S.E. 
S.E. 
S. 

variable 
E. 



Rain. — Remarks. 



Rained during the night. 
Heavy rain during the night. 
\ Rained for 2 hours heavily 
\ in the evening. 
( Rained for 1^ hour in the 
! evening. 



Heavy rain in aftcmoou 

and shower at night. 
Light rain for 2 hours in 
the ni";-ht. 



Light rain for 3 hours in 

the night. 
Heavy rain for an hour in 
the evening. 
Steady light rain all night. 
Rained during the night. 
Heavy rain in the evening. 

Rained during the night. 



49G APPENDIX. 



Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baxer — continued. 



Place. 


Date. 


Tlierraometer. 


Wind. 


R.iiN. — Remarks. 


6 A.M. 


No 311. 


Fatiko 


1872. 
Dec. 3 
„ 4 

„ 6 
,5 7 
5, 8 

„ 9 
„ 10 
„ 11 
„ 12 

„ 13 
14 

„ 1"^ 

io 

„ 17 
„ IS 
„ 19 
„ 20 
., 21 
» 22 
„ 2] 
„ 24 

„ 25 

„ 2G 
„ 27 
„ 28 
„ 29 
„ 30 
„ 31 

1873. 
Jau. 1 
)) 

„ 3 
,> 4 

5 

„ 7 

„ 8 


66 
72 
66 
66 
66 
66 

66 

66 
66 
72 

72 

62 

63 
66 
63 
60 
61 
61 

66 , 
63 
66 
66 

72 

66 
66 
66 
63 
66 
66 

66 
61 
63 
66 
66 
66 
66 
66 


88 
83 
80 
86 
86 
84 

80 

84 

84 
88 

8S( 

86 { 

83 
86 
88 
83 
86 
83 
88 
89 
88 
88 

88 

79 
81 
79 
79 
79 
79 

79 

80 
84 

86 
86 
83 
83 
88 


E. 

variable 

S.E. 
variable 
•> 

E. 

variable 

S.E. 
S.E. 

stron:^- 

S.E. 
strong 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 

S.E. 
variable 

S.E. 

S.E. 

N. 
N. 
N. 

variable 

. b L 1 >J llg 

variable 
>5 

E. 
E. 
E. 
N. 

variable 


Heavy rain for '2\ hours. 

Light at night. 
{ Rained for 2 hours in after- 
( noon, and at night. 
A. hglit shower. 

( Light shower in the even- 
l ing, and heavy rain from 
( _ 3-30 P.M. till 6 P.M. 
Light shower in mornmg. 
Light in the afternoon. 



APPENDIX. 497 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker— continved. 



Date. 



1873. 

Jan. 9 

„ 10 

„ 11 

„ 12 

„ 13 

» 14 

„ 15 

» 16 

» 17 

„ 18 

„ 19 

„ 20 

„ 21 

„ 22 

„ 23 

„ 24 

„ 25 

„ 26 

„ 27 

„ 28 



29 

30 
31 
1 
2 



Feb. 



10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 



Thermometer. 



A.M. Noon. 



66 
63 
61 
63 
66 
66 
63 
63 
66 
66 
66 
64 
64 
63 
68 
70 
65 
63 
63 
68 

66 

66 
68 
6''J 
66 

68- 

64 
72 
72 
72 
72 
68 
66 
66 
66 
66 
72 
72 
68 
68 
72 
68 
72 



86 
79 
79 
80 
88 
79 
66 
77 
81 
86 
86 
86 
86 
88 
88 
90 
8S 
83 
90 
6S 

88 ' 

83 
88 
88 
88 

84 

S') 
86 
90 
90 
83 
88 
90 
90 
90 
86 
88 
92 
92 
90 
90 
88 
86 



Wind. 



N. 

N. 
N.W. 
N.W. 
N.E. 
N.E. 
N.W. 
N.W. 
variable 

E. 

E. 

E. strono 



variable 
E. 
E. 
S.E. 
N.W. 
ILE. 
S.B. 
stron.o' 



variable 
E. light 

variable 



E. 
variable 
E. 
E. 
E. 
E. 
E. 
E. 

E. .strong- 
variable 

E. 
E. 
E. 

N. strong 



Rain.— Remarks 



/ Rained twenty minutes in 
I afternoon. 
Light raiu at night. 



K K 



498 APPENDIX. 



Meteorological Register kept by Lady Bxke^— continued. 









Thej-niometev. 






Place. 


Dat 








Wind. 


— Remarks. 








6 A.M. 


No5n. 








1873. 










Fatiko 


Feb. 
?j 


21 

22 


63 
66 


84 

86 


N. strouo- 








23 


68 


88 


KW. 






J? 


24 


72 


88 


KW. 








2.5 


77 


86 


variable 






>5 


26 


75 


90 








>J 


27 


72 


90 


S.E. 








28 


68 


86 


S.E. 






March 1 


68 


86 


variable 


Sli^iilit shower in afternoon. 






o 


63 


8S 


55 


A shower. 




JJ 


3 


63 


SS 


1, 


A heavy shower. 




" 


4 


66 


86 


E. 


A shower. 




5 


65 


88 


variable 






55 


6 


66 


86 


51 


Light shower at 4-30 p m. 




55 
3J 


7 


66 


90 


S.E. 


Two siiowers. 




8 


68 


90 


N.W. 






55 


9 


75 


90 


variable 






5J 


10 


72 


88 


N.W. 






5> 


11 


66 


88 


N.W. 






>) 


12 


72 


88 


N. 






5J 
}¦> 
55 


13 


68 


85 


variable 






14 


68 


88 


S. 


A shower. 




15 


68 


84 


S.E. 






3> 


16 


68 


84 


N.W. 


Light shower. 




55 


17 


66 


72 


variable 


Heavy rain at night. 




55 


18 


72 


81 


N.W. 




5> 
55 


19 

20 


68 
66 


8i 


N.W. 




j On the 


55 


21 










( march 


55 
55 


22 












23 


66 


93 


S.W. 






55 


24 












55 
55 


25 
26 


72 


95 


\-ariable 






5' 


27 


81 


84 


11 






55 


28 




Jo 


E. 


A heavy sliower. 




55 


29 


72 


95 


variable 


A heavy shower. 




55 


30 


72 


93 


55 






31 


75 


92 


55 






April 

55 


1 

2 


75 
72 


95 
93 


5) 
55 






»1 


3 


75 


93 


E. strong 


Slight rain. 




•} 


4 


72 


i)5 




Slight rain. 




55 


5 


75 


86 


S.W. 






5> 


G 


75 


91 


S.W. 





APPENDIX. 499 



Meteorological REaisTER kept by Lady Baker — continued. 









Thermometer. 






Place. 


Date. ^ 






Wind. 


Raix. — Remarks, 








G A.M. 


Noou. 






,. 


1873. 










T . "V 

Ismailia 


iipril 


7 


79 


93 


s. 


¦ 






8 


75 


88 


variable 


Light rain. 






9 


75 


88 


b.W . 




10 


77 


97 


N.W. 








11 


75 


97 


E. 








12 


77 


95 


b. 








13 


79 


91 


w. 






" 


14 


75 


91 


iS. 








15 


77 


93 


s. w. 








16 


77 


77 


variable 






" 


17 


72 


91 


55 

s.w. 






" 


18 


75 


77- 


Light shower, 
bteady rain. 






19 


72 


93 


is. 






20 


75 


86 


S. 








21 


75 


91 


s. 


Rain at night. 






22 


75 


95 


variable 


Light steady rain. 




" 


23 


75 


88 


S. 


A heavy shower. 




5J 


24 


72 


79 


variable 


Steady rain all night. 




J5 


25 


75 


88 








JJ 


26 


75 


88 


b. 


Heavy ram at night. 




?) 


27 


77 


79 


s. 


Light rain. 






28 


73 


84 


variable 






29 


75 


88 


S. 






May 


30 


75 


79 


variable 


Light ram at night 




1 


72 


88 






J J 


2 


75 


91 


AT i- 1,4. 

N. light 






5) 


3 


75 


88 


CI ^J. 

b. strong 


[morning. 




" 


4 


75 


80 


variable 


Light rain for 3 hours in 




5> 


5 


75 


91 




Light shower. 




55 


6 


77 


91 


S. 


Shower at night. 




55 


7 


72 


81 


S. 


Heavy rain from 3 a. m. till 




15 


8 


75 


91 


S. 


[9 A.M. 




55 


9 


79 


93 


S. 




55 


10 


75 


88 


S. 


Heavy shower at night. 




55 


11 


75 


90 


variable 




55 


12 


77 


90 


S. . 


A shower at night. 




55 


13 


70 


73 


KE. 


Heavy rain from 9 a.m. till 




55 


14 


74 


88 


S. 


[4.30 p.M, 




55 


15 


74 


88 


S lio-lTt- 
0. llglit 




55 


16 


75 


95 


55 






55 


17 


75 


88 








55 


18 


74 


75 


n'-b. 


Slight rain. 




55 


19 


73 


84 


S. light 




55 


20 


73 


91 


varialDle 


Slight shower. 




55 


21 


73 


84 


S. 




55 


22 


74 


84 


S. 





500 APPENDIX. 

Meteorological Register kept by Lady Baker — coyxtinued. 



Place. 



Date. 



Theimometer. 



6 A.M. Noou 



Wind. 



Rain. — Remar: 



Israailia 



White Nile, 
on passage 
to Khar- 
toum. 



White Nile 



Bahr Zai-affe 



White Nile 



Khartoum 



July 



3. 








23 


75 


88 


p. 


24 


73 


88 


8*. 


25 


75 


88 




26 


70 


88 




27 


70 


79 




28 


75 


86 


variable 


29 


79 


88 




30 


77 


86 




31 


75 


84 


S. 


1 


75 


84 


S. Hght 


2 


75 


84 




3 


75 


86 


s. 


4 


75 


80 


N.W. 


5 


75 


84 


«. 


G 


75 


84 


7 


75 


84 


variable 


8 


75 


84 


S. 


9 


75 


86 


variable 


10 


75 


86 


S. 


11 


75 


86 


p.. 


12 


75 


86 


f^. 


13 


79 


86 


8. 


14 


79 


86 


H. 


15 


79 


86 




16 


77 


86 


N. 


17 


77 


86 


variable 


18 


77 


88 


S. 


19 


75 


86 




20 


75 


86 


N. 


21 


79 


87 


S. 


22 


77 


86 


S. 


23 


79 


86 


y. 


24 


79 


88 


s. 


25 


75 


86 


N. stroucr 


26 


79 


88 


IS. 


27 


79 


83 


variable 


28 


75 


86 


N. 


29 


79 


90 


8. 


30 


79 


90 




1 


79 


90 


«! 


2 


79 


92 


s. 


3 


82 


91 


s. 


4 


84 


92 


8. 


5 


79 


91 


variable 


6 


K4 


93 


W. 


7 


79 


bo 


s- 



Heavy rain all aight. 
Heavy rain all night. 

Heavy rain in the night. 

A shower. 



Light rain all day. 

[noon. 

Heavy rain in after- 
Very heavy rain. 



Heavy rain at night. 
Heavy rain at night. 

Light rain. 
Lidit rain. 



APPENDIX. 



501 



c3 



<1<! 



XJ2 VI w VI ^ 

c ^ • 

-0. »o »2 



'A 



^ CD OS 

a^a G C3 P! 



M p 
OC<l 



<1<l 



'TIS 



<1 



11 

d 

CD 



n3 ^ 

n q 
<5 



S Q -pl ^ ^ 



r-H (M Tt< CS O O (M o 



1^ 



g o 



: ^ : : 



:••::: : • ::::::::::::: 
00 • • 



lr^C£5lOCDCOO>OOCO >0 »OCDe5Cl(M(MOl>.lOOiC505'<*t 
t^t-t-t^t-COlr^t^co CO cococoi:^t--t:^l>.t^i>.l>.lr^l>.aO 



c3 Cu 



bjD"S.ai > c3 d -d 

>-( '::^<T? o J3 "1;; 



d oT'o O cu c3 OS Cuj« 23 





502 



APPENDIX. 





Meteorological Register.— 


-ToTVFiKiA, Lat. 9° 2.5' 15". 


1870. 






Mean Temperature, Falir, 


Rainfall. 




Month. 


6 a.:m. 


Noon. 


Daj's lieavy. 


Days light. 


INIay 




73-3 




92-2 


3 


4 


June 




72-3 




86-5 


5 


6 



Meteorological Register kept at Towpikia, on the White Nile, Lati- 
tude 9° 2.5' 1.5" N., in 1870, by Lieut. Julian A. Baker, r.n., during 
Sir S. W. Baker's Khedive Expedition. 



Date. 


Aneroid 


Thermo- 
meter. 


"Wind. 


Force 


Wea- 
ther. 


Remarks. 




Inches. 






— 






Jul. 23 -A.M. 


28-56 


73° 


s. 


2 


c 




- P.M. 


•55 


80 




7 


tqr 




„ 24 - A.M. 


•60 


73 




2 


C 




- P.M. 








3 


or 




., 25 6 A.M. 


•65 


li 


s'y 


2 


c 




6 P.M. 


•58 


80 


gly 


2 


be 




„ 26 6 A.M. 


•62 


73 


calm 





be 




6 P.M. 


•55 


78 


S. 


1 


be 




Z7 - A.M. 


"65 


73 


o 
O. 


1 


b c 




G P.M. 


•51 


79 


calm 





be 


Rained heavily in night. 


„ 28 6 a.m. 


•62 


72 




2 


bet 


„ 29 6 a.m. 


•60 


75 


S.W. 


2 


be 




- p.m. 








3 




Hard rain for two hours 
in the afternoon. 


., 30 6 a.m. 


•56 


73 


S. 


2 


be 




6 p.m. 


•50 


73 


y. 


2 


er 


Rained from I2h to 2V 


„ 31 6 a.m. 


•57 


78 


cahn 





c 


[p.m. 


noon 


•54 


78 


S. 


2 


be 


6 P.M. 


•47 


78 


calm 





be 


Means of 9 days' ob- 
servations ; aneroid 


Aug. 1 6 a.m. 


•56 


73 


S.'^V. 





be 


28-57, thermometer 


noon 


•56 


79 


1 


be 


75° r. 


6 P.M. 


'55 


74 


s.w. 


2 


cor 


Drizzle from 2 to 5 p.m. 


„ 2 6 a.m. 


•60 


73 


calm 





e 




noon 


•60 


77 


S.E. 


2 


be 
be 


Drizzle from 7 to 9r 
[a. m. 


6 P.M. 


•52 


78 


s.w. 


4 


„ 3 6 a.m. 


•56 


73 


calm 





00 


Rain from 8 to 9 a.m. 


6 P.M. 


•53 


78 


S.W. 


1 


be 




,, 4 6 a.m. 


•58 


75 


calm 





be 




6 P.M. 


•48 


79 


S. 


o 


be 




„ 5 6 a.m. 


•52 


75 


calm 





be 




6 P.M. 


•42 


83 


jj 





be 





APPENDIX. 503 



Meteorological REaiSTEii kept at Towpikia, on tlie White 
1\ iLE—cont inued. 







Anevoii 


1 

Therrao- 






Wea- 




Date. 


meter. 1 


Wind. 


Force. 


ther. 


Remarks, 






- ¦ 

Indies. 




- 






- 


Aug. 6 


6 A.M. 


•54 


74 


calm 





be 


[r c q 1 1. 


noon 


•50 


83 







be 


Rain from 1 to 2 a.m., 




6 P.M. 


•50 


7o 


N.W. 


1 


C 


Drizzle from 2 to 5 p.m. 


„ 7 


6 A.M. 


28-56 


73 


N. 


1 


be 




noon 






N.W. 


3 


be 


Slight rain 7 to 8 p.m. 


» 8 


6 A.M. 
- P.M. 


•55 


72 


calm 
N.W. 




o 


be 
be 






6 A.M. 


04 


76 


calm 





be 




6 P.M. 




79 


S E. 


3 


cr 


R iiu from 5^ to 6 p.m. 


„ 10 


6 A.M. 


Ob 


73 


N.W. 


3 





[tio< n. 


noon 


•56 


74 


N.\V. 


5 


ed 


Slight drizzle in after- 


„ 11. 


6 A.M. 


"56 


74 


calm 





be 


Means of 11 days' ob- 
servations : aneroid 
2854, thermometer 


Sept. 4 6 a.m. 


"62 


73 







e 


76^ 






•60 


75 





be 


Rain from 2\ to 3.x p.m. 


35 


3' 


„ 6 


5? 


"57 


77 







be 






noon 






N.E. 


4 


cr 


Rain from 9 to 12 a.m. 




6 P.M. 






S.E. 


3 


r 


R-ainfrom 5^ to 7 p-m. 


„ 7 


G A.M. 


•63 


74 


calm 





be 




noon 






S.E. 


3 


be 






6 P.M. 


•52 


78 


calm 





be 




8 


G A.M. 


.£?A 

60 


75 


35 





b c 






J? 

noon 


•6i 


75 


53 

s. 



6 


f 

be 


Rain from 9 to 9^ a.m. 


„ 10 


G A.M. 


"•54 


76 


s. 


1 


be 






G P.M. 


•58 


76 


calm 





be 




„ 11 


G A.M. 


•63 


74 


35 





be 






G P.M. 






S.E. 


2 


be 


Rain from 2 to 2j p.m. 


r 12 


6 A.M. 


•65 


76 


N.E. 


1 


be 






noon 






N.E. 


5 to 8 


C X) 


TTjird vi\\w trt p m 




6 P.M. 






N.E. 


1 


be 




„ 13 


6 A.M. 

noon 

G P.M. 


•67 


74 


calm 
S. 
S. 




4 

.3 


be 
be 
be 




„ 14 


6 A.M. 


•64 


75 


N. 


1 


be 




„ 15 




•62 


76 


N. 


1 


be 


Means of 12 days' ob- 
servations : aneroid 
28-61 , tiiermom. 75° 3'. 



General Average of Ais'eroid and Tiiermobieter. 

For 9 days in July 28-57 ... 75-1 

„ 11 „ August -54 ... 76- 

„ 12 „ September -61 ... 75^3 



32 



504 



APPENDIX. 



>-i (M CO 1:0 
Ci Tt^ Oi CO 
CO 10 OD -H 



CO CO 1-1 ^ 



-4 O C£> (N 

I— I f.M —I Tj< 

O CO >o 

(M G<l CO CO 



o : CO (N 
o : ^ CO 

I— I I— I 



CO O (M O (N (M 

Oi O O ">*i CO 

O CO O CO O Oi 

I-l r-( (M <M 



— I (N CO l>. 

00 O O) GO 

CO O 

(M (N CO o:) 



o o 



Ci CO CO O) CO 

000000 

C-A O} 0\ Ol CM G-^l 



T}4 CO 00 
CO »b 
0000 

CM (M (M 



CI Ci 
o o 



^ O . !>. CO 

CI ^ 25 ^ 25 

o o o o o o 

^ (M C-l (>J CM (M 



CO go 

CO lio 

0000 

C-l (N 



o o 



C5 CO CO CO 

000000 

(M C<I (N (M <M (M 



r— CO >o 
0000 

(M <N 



u o p 



(N C<l (M 



.2 e3 

^ Ph • 

^ ^ 13 a 

g ^ ^ ^ 



a 



I 



d o _ 
•-2 o 
p:; EH 



o ce 



o 



O O 



o — < >o 



C5 O — I Tt^ <-H 



CO »r: ^ 



O ^ iTJ 
1^ I- 

CO 00 CA) 



APPENDIX. 



iiiiiiiiii 


3167 
25S7 
2204 
2532 
1616 
1462 
3026 
87 




?p V5 =P ?5 . 




. cp r?x CO 1^ ^-j p f>l S cp -o ?5 OD 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis 


i-H 


^^^^^^^^^ ¦ 


. . s . g ^ ^ 
• ' • ^ St ^ 


i i ::::::: : 


11 

^nyama 


First Camp .. 
Second Camp . . 
Third Camp .. 
Fourth Camp .. 
Foweera 
Kisoona 

Kasija 

Koki 

Chorobezi 
Masmdi 


Near Shooa Hi. 
On the River t 
Afuddo 
Lahore 
Gondokoro 
Khartoum 
Oquack^ 
Cairo 2 


1 


Ib7 . March 20 
21 
23 
27 

May 26 
July S 
August 6 
September 2 



508 



APPEJTDIX. 



The corrections required to be applied to tlie readings of tlie hj^o.-o- 
meters were found at the Kew Observatory to be as follows : — 



Date. 



1869. May 
1868. November 
1873. December 



No. 4G93. 


Xo. 9532. 


At 205^ 


At 21-.°. 


At 20 5° . 


At 212°. 


- 05 


+ 0-10 










+ oi5 


+ 0-2;) 




' '-00 




- 0-10 



No. 9jS4. 



I At 21: 



+ 0-20 



+ 0-20 
- 0-10 



The following corrections have been used in reducing the heights in 
column B ; they are based upon the latest verifications : — 







No. 4(393. 


Xo. 9532. 


Xo. 95S4. 






At 212 


000° 


- 0-10 


- 010 






„ 211 


- 0-02 


- 0-11 


- 010 






„ 210 


- 0-04 


- on 


- 0-10 






„ 209 


- 0-06 


- 0-12 


- 0-10 






„ 208 


- 08 


- 13 


- 10 






„ 207 


- O il 


- 013 


- 0-10 






„ 206 


- 0-1,3 


- 0-14 


- 0-10 




„ 205 


- 015 


- 015 


- 010 





The atmospheric pressure at the sea-level has, in calculating the 
heights in column B, been assumed the same as that shown on Buchan's 
Isoli'irir ( 'liarts ; and the temperature of the air there, the same as that 
shown on Doves Isothermcd Cliarts, 

The heights in column A were calculated on the spot, and are gener- 
ally greater than those in column B. 

Buchan's Isobaric Charts of the World furnish the following data 
for the pros.sure of the atmosphere at the sea-level, in inches of mercury 
at the temperature of 32° Fahrenheit, over the countries extending from 
Egj-pt to the Equator : — 





Months. 


Lat 20° X. 


Lat. 10° X. 


Lat. 0. 






Jamiary 


30-0 


29-9 


29-8 






Febniary 


300 


29-9 


29'8 






March 


300 


29-9 


29-8 






April 


2f)-9 


29-8 


29-8 






May 


29-8 


29-8 


29-8 






June 


29-7 


29-7 


29 9 






July 


29-7 


29-7 


29-9 






August 


29-7 


29-7 


29-8 






September 


29-8 


29-8 


29-S 






October 


29-9 


29-9 


29-8 






November 


300 


29-9 


29-S 






December 


300 


29-9 


29-8 





APPSTOIX. 



507 



Dove's Thermal Charts of the World furnish the following data for 
the mean temperature of the air at the sea-leve], for the coast of tho 
same region : — 



IMontlis. 




Lat. 20° N. 



Lat. 10° N. 


Lat. 0. 




January 


o 

G9 




77 


Id 


February ... 


77 


80 


811 


March 


80 


85 


85 


April 


oO 


OO 


OO 


May 


86 


86 


82 


June 


80 


86 


80 


July 


90 


85 


79 


August 


86 


85 


79 


September 


86 


82 


79 


October 


86 


82 


79 


November " 


77 


82 


SO 


December 


72 


77 


77 



The heights deduced would, of course, bo more reliable if we could 
ascertain the values for atmospheric pressure and temperature at the 
sea-level for the clay and hour on which each observation of the 
hypsometer or aneroid was made. 

The hypsometer observations appear to bo excellent. They have 
been used for checking the aneroid readings. For this purpose the 
equivalents of tension of vapour for the boiling points have been taken 
from the extensive table, based upon Eegnault's determinations, given 
in SirHenry James's i"i?..siri<c^/o?iS /or taking Meteor olocjical Observations, 
and the difference of the corresponding aneroid readings from them 
taken. From those differences are deduced the following mean 
corrections for the aneroid : — 

At 30 inches - -50 

„ 29 „ - -47 

.28 „ - -45 

,,27 „ - -43 

And these corrections have been u.^'cd in the calculations of tho 
heights of Towfikia and Gebel Eegiaf, which are the only ones which 
depend upon the aneroid. 



2nd Fehruary, 1874. 



E. STRACHiVN, F.IJ.S. 



608 



APPENDIX. 



Results of the Astronomical Observations made by Lieut. J. A. 
Baker, r.x., during the Years 1870, 1871, 1872, and 1873, ia Sir S. 
W. Baker's Expedition up the River Nile, calculated by \Yilliam 
Ellis, f.r.a.s,, of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. 

Table I. — Results of the Observations for Latitude. 

(These Latitudes ;ire deauced from meridian altitudes, excepting those at Towfikia, 1S70, 
November 7, and November 10 (fir.st result), which are obtained from altitudes taken a 
little disrraicc from the meridian.) 



Datt 



Jan. 13 
Feb. 1 1 
iSIarch 9 
June 7 
Nov. 7 

„ 1' 
„ 1> 

21 
11 
1 

28 
20 
20 
20 
24 

27 

8 

„ 10 

„ 11 

„ 15 

March 1 
3 



Jan. 
Fel). 
July 
Jan. 



Feb. 



April 



Jan. 



Feb. 



10 
5 
14 
16 
19 
28 
22 
22 
23 
24 
25 
27 
6 



Name of Place. 



Khai-toum 

Fashoda 

The Dubbah, Bahr ZarafFe 
Towfikia 



The Dubbah, Bahr Zarafie 
Tlu-ee Dubbahs, Bahr ZarafFe 
Goudokoro 



Gebel Regiaf 

' Sheik Beden's, just below 

the rapids 

On the march from Sheik 

Beden's to Lobor6 

Goboor 

Marengo 

Moogi 

Lobore 

At the junction of Asua & 

Attabbi 

;U camp in the forest 
Sliooa 

Fatiko 

F'oweera 

Kisoona 

Koki 

Chorobezi 

Masindi 

Fatiko 



Object observed. 


Resulting 
Latitude N. 


Sun 




15 


36 


II 

6 


Canopus 


9 




14 


Canopus 


7 


47 


38 


a Centauri 


9 


25 


12 


Sun 


9 


25 


25 


Sun 


9 


2(3 


19 


Sun 


9 


24 


5 


Sun 


9 


24 


27 


Sim 


9 


24 


59 


Sun 


Q 


25 


\l 


Sun 


9 


25 


1 


Sun 


7 


46 


47 


Sun 


7 


31 


51 


Moon 


4 


56 


28 


a Ursfc Majoris 


4 


54 


58 


y Ursfc Majoris 


4 


53 


49 


a Crucis 


4 


53 


43 


a Crucis 


4 


45 


22 


1 Canopus 


4 


37 


49 


1 Canopus 


4 


37 


8 


Capella 


4 


28 


34 


Capella 


4 


18 


33 


Canopus 


4 


G 


37 


Canopus 


4 


1 


5 


1 Canopus 


3 


42 


38 


Canopus 


3 


22 


11 


a Crucis 


3 


7 


17 


a Ursic Majoris 


3 


1 


21 


a Lynu 


2 


12 


35 


rt Urs;T) 'Majoris 


2 


2 


52 


a Ursix; jMajoris 


1 


59 


26 


a Crucis 


1 


56 


29 


a Crucis 


1 


44 


35 


j3 Aurig;e 


3 


2 


14 


Canopus 


3 





33 


Capella 


3 


1 


28 


Capella 


3 


2 


18 


Capella 


3 


2 


38 


Capella 


3 


1 


39 


Canoi)us 


2 


59 


15 



^APPENDIX. 



609 



THe results contained in tlio preceding Table having been combined 
as necessary, the following table v/as formed : — 



Table II. — Concluded Latitudes 



Name of Place, 



Latitude 
North. 



NaTT;e of riac e. 



Latitude 
North. 



If 

a « 

55 



Khartoum 

Fashoda 

Towfikia 

The Dubbah, Bahr ) 

Zaraffe ... ] 
Three Dubbahs,Bahr \ 

Zaraffe ... ] 

Gondokoro 

Gebel Regiaf 
Sheikh Beden's, just ) 

below the rapids ) 
On the march from ) 

Sheikh Beden's to [ 

Lobore ... ) 



15 36 G 
9 54 14 
9 



25 5 
47 13 

31 51 

54 45 
45 22 

4 37 49 
4 37 8 



Goboor 


4 28 34 


Mareugo 


4 18 33 


Moogi 


4 6 37 


Lobore 


4 1 5 


At the junction of tlie i 


3 42 38 


Asua and Attabbi ] 


At camp in the forest 


3 22 11 


Shooa 


3 7 17 


Fatiko 


3 1 26 


Foweera 


2 12 35 


Kisoona 


2 2 52 


Koki 


1 59 26 


Chorobezi 


1 56 29 


Masindi 


1 44 35 



Table III. — Results of Observations for Longitudes from Lunar Distances. 

(In the reduction of these observations the ' Nautical Almanac ' distances have been 
corrected for the errors of the i^laces of the Moon and Planets as determined from the 
Greenwich Observations. ) 



Date. 


Na of Place. 


Object to 
which Moon 
was refeiTed. 


Whether 
Moon was 
E. or W. 


Resulting' 
Longitude East. 


1870. 


Oct. 


29 


To\Yfikia 


Sun 


E. 


o 

3] 


29 






31 




Sun 


E. 


31 


15 15 






31 




Antares 


E. 


32 


42 






31 




Saturn 


E. 


32 


1 15 




Nov. 


7 




Aldebaran 


W. 


31 


33 45 




)> 


7 


55 


J upiter 




31 


43 30 






8 




Jupiter 


w. 


31 


24 45 


1872. 


Jan. 


18 


Gondokoro 


Foinalhaut 


E. 


30 


48 15 






18 




Jupiter 


W. 


32 


8 




March 


15 


Fatiko 


Jupiter 


W. 


32 


37 




J) 


16 


55 


Sun 


E. 


31 


46 15 




)> 


16 


55 


Jupiter 


V/. 


32 


58 




5) 


17 


55 


Aldebaran 


E. 


32 


9 




)) 


17 


55 


Aldebaran 


E. 


32 


6 30 




}) 


17 


55 


Jupiter 


W. 


32 


52 15 



610 



APPEmiX. 



At one place (Fatiko) two observations of eclipses of Juj^iter's satellites were 
made, the results of wliicli are giv^en in the next Table: — 

Table IY. — Results of the Observations for Lowjitude, from Eclipses of 
Juj)ite/s Satellites, made at Fatiko. 



(In the reduction of these observations the ' Xautical Almanac ' times have been used 
without coiTection, no correspoudmg observations having been found.) 



Date. 


Phenomena. 


Resulting 
Longitude East. 


1872. 


March 17 


Reappearance of 1st satelKte 


32 37 45 


1873. 


Feb. G 


Disappearance of 3rd satellite 


32 35 45 



Combining together the results of Tables III. and IV., the following values of 
longitude are found : — 

Table Y.— Concluded Longitudes. 





Name of^ Place. 


Longitude 
East. 


Number of 
separate De- 
terminations. 






Towfikia 


31 44 13 


7 






Goudokoro 


31 28 8 


2 






Fatiko 


32 27 49 


8 





In addition to the above, several differences of longitude were measured by means 
of two chronometers. * 

Table VI. — Chronomc-tric Differences of Lonr/itude. 



Names of Places, 


Resulting 
Differences of 
Longitudes. 


Khartomn, cast of Fa'^lioda 

Faslioda, east of Tov/fikia 

Khartoum, east of Towfikia 

Towfikia, east of the Dul)]iah, Bahr Zaraffe 
Towfikia, east of Three Duhl)alis, ]3aln" ) 
Zarafie ... i 


6 21 "o 
30 45 

51 45 

1 3 15 

1 3 15 



The interval between tlio observations made before leaving Khartoum, and after 
firriving at Towfikia (taking Fashoda on the way), was fourteen days,and the rates 
determined at Khartoum agree well with those aKerwards found at Towfikm. The 
first tliree results of the preceding Table shouhl thrrefurc be good. 

The last two differences depend on rales d(-termined before leaving Towfikia, 
carried on twenty-nine days for "The Dubbah," and fifty-two days for "Throe 
Dubbahs," there being no after determination of rate. These diifercncos arc there- 
fore less worthy of confidence, although it may bo noted as a favoui-ablo circum- 
8tance that in each case the two chronometers employed gave fairly accordant results. 



INDEX. 



Abbas Pacha, Aclunet Rafik's ser- 
vice under, 156. 

Abbio, the old sheik of Lobore, offers 
assistance, 240 et seq. ; sends his 
Ron as a hostage, 250. 

Abd - el - Kader, Lieutenant - colonel, 
first aide - de-camp, appointed to 
command of Sir S. Baker's body- 
guard, the "Forty Thieves," 15; 
trustwortliiness of, 44, 222 ; boards a 
slaver, 61 ; an excellent diver, 88 ; 
explains matters to Allorron, 108 ; 
commands an attacking- party, 128 ; 
storms a stockade, 132 ; visits slavers' 
station at Gondokoro, 137 ; prompti- 
tude of, 172, 231 ; accompanies Sir 
S. Baker to Unj oro, 219 ; advises 
capture of the sheik Bedden, 228 ; 
fires Bari villages, 232 ; in charge 
of baggage, 250 ; sent to Foweera 
with instructions, 298 ; sent to 
remonstrate with Kabba Rega, 305 ; 
escorts Kabba Rega to Sir S. Baker's 
dwelling at Masindi, 334 ; drills 
ti'oops daily at Masindi, 348 ; his 
interview with Kittakara after battle 
of Masindi, 367 ; his dwelling on 
fire, 375 ; his duties on the march 
to Rionga, 378 ; wounded, 386 ; re- 
joins Sir S. Baker in Rionga' s dis- 
trict, 402 ; in command at Foweera, 
405, 408 ; his testimony, 420 ; re- 
called to Fatiko, 422 ; as a hunter, 
440 ; promotion of, 464 ; honourable 
mention of, 470. 

Abdullah, Major, left in command of 
a station, 182; completion of station 
commanded by, 183 ; visit to station 
of, 185; recalled, 187; Achm.et's 
camp attacked after departure of, 
192 ; further particulars respecting 
his command, 235 ; attacked by the 
Baris of Bedden, 244 ; left in com- 
mand at Fatiko, 279 ; in charge of 
liberated slaves, 326 ; awkward 
position of, at Fatiko, 332 ; relieved 
by Sir S. Baker, 410 ; in command 
at Fatiko, 450 ; orders for, 451 ; 
otherwise mentioned, 219, 436. 

Abdullah, the Shillook, volunteers to 



accompany Sir S. Baker in exploring 
the AVhite Nile, 68 ; guards corn 
at Tewfikteyah, 86 ; sent to Tewfi- 
keeyah with letter for the governor 
of Fashoda, 86 ; returns from Tew- 
fikeeyah with news of letter, 87. 

Abdullah, the cook, 220. 

Abdullah Maseri, catches thief, 123. 

Abdullah, the pathfinder, 377, 395. 

Aboo Kooka, interpreter, 362, 373. 

Abou Kookah, station of, 106. 

Abou-noos or Abdnoos (ebony), 116. 

AbouSaood (Agad & Co.), his contract 
with the Egyptian government, 72 ; 
surreptitiously disposes of slaves, 
77 ; appearance and character of, 
ib. ; treacherously murders the sheik 
of ]3elinian, 112 ; arrives at Gondo- 
koro, 136 ; brings stolen cattle, ib. ; 
joyfully welcomed to Gondokoro by 
Baris, 137 ; his cattle confiscated, 
lb.; Sir S. Baker's official letter to, 
138 ; intrigues of, 139 ; carries off 
cattle, 152 ; responsible for Shir 
calamity, 153 ; anticipates failure 
of the expedition, 155 ; further in- 
trigues of, ib. ; traffics with Baris of 
Belinian, 156 ; asks for permission 
to quit Gondokoro, 165 ; incites 
officers to conspire, 176 ; success of 
his intrigues, 192 ; swindles the 
government, 206 ; departure of, 207 ; 
his station at Latooka, 209 ; other- 
wise mentioned, 171 ; his stations 
near Ibrahimeyeh, 255 ; meeting at 
Fatiko with, 260 ; his intrigiies with 
Shooli natives, 262 ; his proceedings 
at Fatiko, 269 ; his contract to 
supply the troops with provisions, 
ib. ; his character, ib. ; wantonly 
attacks the Koshi country, 271 ; 
swears eternal fidelity, 275, 280 ; his 
instructions to Suleiman, the vakeel, 
295 ; conspires with Suleiman, 300 ; 
his first app)earance at Masindi, 313 ; 
wantonly attacks Rot Jarma, who 
was under government protection, 
332 ; Rionga' s information respect- 
ing, 402 ; abominable treachery of, 
406 et seq. ; evidence against, 416 ; 



512 



INDEX. 



summoned to Fatiko, 419 ; his de- 
fence, 420 ; his flight and false 
reports, 421 ; some of his slavers 
overtaken, 457 ; arrest of, 459 ; docu- 
mentary evidence against, handed 
to Nubar Pacha at Cairo, 463 et seq. 

Achmet Bash Choush, escape of, 148. 

Achmet Etfcndi, conduct of, 86 ; lei- 
surely proceedings of, 90 ; appointed 
to command of a station, 182 ; ener- 
getic conduct of, 183 ; returns to 
camp with intelligence, 192. 

Achmet Rafik Efiendi, left behind 
with iSiambore, 136; natives threat- 
en, 152 ; information respecting his 
conduct, 154 ; negligence of, 156 ; 
anxiety for, 159; killed by Baris, 161. 

African, horse sickness, 175 ; diplo- 
macy, 227 ; paradise, 258 ; love of 
music, 261 ; slavery, 320. 

Afuddo, sport at, 254. 

Agad Achmet Sheik (head of the firm 
of Agad & Co.), his contract with 
the Egyptian government, 72 ; his 
grievances, 73, 76 ; modification of 
the tenns of contract with, 76 et 
seq.; death of, 136; othervv-ise Uien- 
tioned, 2, 64, 72, 206. 

Agricultural enemies, 63 ; strike, 67 ; 
experiments, 343. 

Akiko Hill, bearings taken at, 255. 

Albert N'yanza (M'wootan N'zige), 
arrangements for navigating the, 
15 ; junction of Victoria Nile and, 
69 ; White Nile flowing frum the, 
253 ; mountains on west shore of, 
opposite Magungo, 282 ; native in- 
formation respecting Barcga, a 
country bordering on the, 290 ; 
sighted from neighbourhood of 
Masindi, 305 ; information from 
M'tese's envoys respecting, 315 ; 
sighted from Masindi, 323 ; east 
shore of, 316; Makkarika canni- 
bals near the, 431 ; native infor- 
mation respecting, 447 ; Uuyoro 
bounded by the, 451 ; altitude 
of, taken by Sir S. Baker at 
Vacovia, 409 ; future observations 
of the, ih. ; connection of Taugan- 
yika lake with, 475 ; Dr. Schwein- 
furth on Livingstone's theories re- 
specting, 476 ; highest altitude of, 
477. 

Alexandria, distance between Gondo- 
koro and, 5. 

Ali Amouri, representatives of, at 
Wat-el- Shambi declare inability to 
supply troops with food, 105. 



Ali Bey, governor of Fashoda, claims 
to have taken measures for sup- 
pressing the slave trade, 16 ; makes 
a razzia upon the Shillooks, 42 ; his 
interview with Sir S. Baker, 43 ; 
his method of taxing a district, 45 ; 
his intrigues against the Shillook 
king, 50 ; summoned to an inter- 
view with Quat Kare, 58 et seq.; 
dismissed and disgraced, 76 ; other- 
wise mentioned, 72. 

Ali Emmeen persuades the Makka- 
rika tribe to take hostile measures 
against Sir S. Baker, 430 ; refuses 
to appear, 431; his representations 
to the Makkarikas, ib. 

Ali Genninar makes submission, and 
offers his services, 330 ; supersedes 
Eddrees, 338 ; Kabba Bega steals 
guns and ammunition of, ib.; in 
command in Unyoro, 423 ; narrowly 
escapes drowning, 426 ; and Rionga 
defeat Kabba Rega, 432 ; and Ri- 
onga get possession of Unyoro, 451. 

Ali Goboor wounded by a lance, 385. 

Ali Hussein, an employ^ of Abou 
Saood, description of, 266 ; treachery 
of, 267; intercepts provisions, ib.; 
superseded, 407 ; death of, 415. 

Ali Jusef, an envoy from M'tese, king 
of Uganda, arrives at Fatiko, 446. 

Ali Xedjar (" Fortv Thieves "), death 
of, 223 ; mentioned, 168, 203, 222. 

Ali Sadik'C Forty Thieves"), a crack 
shot, 393. 

AUorron, a Bari chief, promises alle- 
gitmce to the government, 107 ; hos- 
tile conduct of, 108; his connection 
with Abou Saood, 109; prejudiced 
against expedition, 110; refuses to 
supply cattle or food, 114; his 
aversion to the government, 115; 
his cattle confiscated, 123; his in- 
terview with Sir S. Baker, ib. ; his 
negotiations with the Baris of Be- 
linian, 134 ; assists Abou Saood, 
137, 155 ; desires peace, 207 ; I'e- 
l^entance and reformation of, 455. 

Amarn, an Abyssinian boy, rescued 
from a cruel master, 171 ; intelli- 
gence of, 219 ; on a march, 238 ; ill 
with an ulcerated leg, 437 ; brought 
to England by Lady Baker, 481. 

Ambuscades, 167, 385. 

Amnmnition, reckless waste, 387, 388. 

Antelopes, 33, 35, 41, 439—441, 443. 

Ants, 66, 113. 

Ant-hills, 19, 32, 33, 35. 

Apothecaries' Hall, medicines and 



INDEX. 



513 



drugs for the expedition obtained 
from, 9. 

Artilleryinan, death of, 29 ; prophecy 
of, 30 ; fulfihnent of prophecy of, 37. 

Artillery fur expedition, 8. 

Assaballa, capture of slaver belonging 
to, 64. 

Asua (River), an affluent of the Nile, 
direcrion of the, 69 ; impassable 
during the rainy season, 218 ; junc- 
tion of the Attabi with the, 251. 

Atbara (River), an affluent of the 
Nile, direction of the, 69. 

Atroosh, a vakeel, station of, 275 ; 
instructed by Abou Saood to attack 
Fabbo, 430. 

Attabi (River), vrater of, clear, 251. 

Austrian mission station at Gondo- 
koro, 107, 115. 

Baggara Arabs, followers of AH Bey, 
help to levy taxes, 43; canoe-builder, 
399. 

Baggera, immense size of the fish 
called, 215. 

Bahr Gazal (River), expedition of 
BjiafFer Pacha to the, 12, 22 ; navig- 
able channels in the. 34 ; slave- vessel 
from the, seized, 64 ; scarcity of 
woud neat the, 68; absence of cur- 
rent in Ihe, 69; geographical par- 
ticulars respecting the, ib. 

Bahr Girafle (River), a branch of the 
White Nile, ascent of the, 19 ; par- 
ticulars respecting the, ib. ; whole 
fleet in a cul-de-sac on the, 23 ; 
attempt of officials to prevent expe- 
dition from passing the, 72 ; wreck 
on the, 83 ; unnavigable character 
of the, 94 et seq. ; dam constructed 
across the, 99 ; return journey vUl 
— canal navigable, 456 ; mentioned, 
17, 18, 38. 43, 62, 65, 70, 234. 

Bahr Ingo (Rivei), effluents at ea,stem 
corner of, 274. 

Bairam, a INIahonnnedan festival, 87. 

Baker, Sir Samuel, firman of Khedive 
appointing him commander of the 
expedition to suppress the slave- 
trade of the White Nile, and to an- 
nex the Central Nile Basin, 4 ; 
EngUsh party under his command, 
6 ; prelinunary arrangements of, 6 — 
9 ; unpopularity of his expediti(m, 
12; surveys lacustrine region, 24; 
contemplates returning to ShiUook 
country, 34 ; detects the nefarious 
practices of Ali Bey, the governor 
of Fashoda, 42 ; his interview with 



Ali Bey, 43 ; liberates slaves, 46 ; 
descends the Sobat, 47 ; assembles 
the entire fleet at Tewfikeeyah, ih. ; 
his first interview with Quat Kare, 
49 ; conciliates the Shillooks, 51 ; 
his proceedings at Tewfikeeyah, 52 ; 
adjusts matters between Quat Kare 
and Ali Bey, 59 ; explores the old 
White Nile, 68 ; sends letter of re- 
nionstance to Djiaffer Pacha, 72; his 
limited jurisdiction, 73; explanation 
of preceding limitation, 75 ; deter- 
mines to assume nnmopoly of the 
ivory trade, 77 ; leaves Tewfikeeyah, 
82 ; discovers the great White Nile, 
97 ; constructs a dam across the Bahr 
Giraffe, 99 et seq.; his operations at 
Gondokoro, 106 et seq. ; difficulties 
with the sheik AUorron, 119 ; offici- 
ally annexes Bari country, 120 et 
seq. ; issues general order, 127 ; 
makes war with the Baris, 128 et 
seq.; Abou Saood, 138 et seq.; 
conunences a campaign against the 
whole Bari tribe, 156 ; administers 
absolute justice, 171 ; and Baris of 
Regiaf, 177 ; further military move- 
ments of, 187 et seq. ; his interview 
with the sheik Bedden, 195 ; makes 
peace with the Baris, 202 ; advances 
south, 217 ; meets Bedden as ap- 
pointed, 225 ; quells a mutiny, 234 ; 
arrives at Ibrahimcyeh, 253 ; at 
Fatiko, 257 ; notifies termination of 
A gad & Co.'s contract, 270 ; arrives 
at Unyoro, 283 ; meets Quonga, 
284 ; issues proclamation to volun- 
teers, 286 ; native nickname, 291, 
325 ; pays visit to Kabba Rega, 306; 
interview with Kabba Rega, 311 ; 
Abou Sauod's portrait of, 313; an- 
nexation of Unyoro, 337 ; residence 
atMasindi, 328 etseq.; general attack 
upon, by Kabba Rega, 363 ; battle of 
Masiudi, and defeat of the Unj^oros, 
365 ; difficulties of the march to 
Foweera, 368 et seq. ; attempted as- 
sassination of, 373 ; retreats from 
Masindi, 379 ; meets Rionga, 402 ; 
rctui'ns to Fatiko, 405 ; arrives at 
Fatiko, 410 ; defeats the rebels, 414 ; 
summons Abou Saood to Fatiko, 
419 ; his reputation in Egypt and 
the Soudan, 420; slave-trade entirely 
suppressed, and the slave-hunters 
driven from the country, 423 ; form- 
ation of ii-regular corps, ib, ; the 
country at peace, ib. ; the govern- 
ment established throughout, 424; 



LL 



514 



INDEX. 



tender solicitude of Fatiko ladies 
for, 445 ; sends a letter to Dr. 
Livingstone, 448 ; returns to Gon- 
dokoro, 453 ; starts for home, 456 ; 
returns to Fashoda, 458 ; returns to 
Khartoum, 461 ; retunis to Cairo, 
462 ; interview with the Khedive, 
463 ; decorated by the Khedive, 
ib. ; concluding: remarks, 465 et 
seq. ; general remarks on slave- 
trade, and gengraphical details, vide 
Appendix, 473 et seq. 

Baker, Lady, accompanies her hus- 
band, 6 ; takes charge of liberated 
»lave-girl, 64 ; receives a gift from 
the Empress of the French, 71 ; 
accompanies Sir S. Bsiker to Be- 
linian, 161 ; trains native girls to 
household duties, 173 ; witnesses an 
engagement, 184; courageous con- 
duct of, 351, 408; admirable fore- 
thousrht of, 377 ; on the march to 
Rioni^a, 380, 381; in action, 383; 
hardships endured by, 382, 392. 396, 
408 ; presence of mind, 413 ; botan- 
ical collection prepared by, 463 ; 
invaluable services of, 471 ; metfH)r- 
ological register kept by, 486 et scq. 

Baker, li.N., Lieutenant J. A., joins 
expedition, 6 ; his professional ex- 
perience valuable, 13; assists in 
floating grounded steamei's, 26; 
shoots M Balonceps Rex, 29; shoots 
a bulfalo. 32 ; takes part in lake 
survey. 33 ; Sir S. Baker's confid- 
ence in, 31; contributes to a re- 
markable " bag," 39 ; gues out 
antelopo-hunting, 41, 254 ; ill ^^^th 
fever, 42, 79, 88, 97 ; visits camp of 
Ali Bey, 46 ; renders able assist- 
ance in exploring, 70 ; shows au 
excellent example of industry', 83 ; 
value of his nautical knowledge, 
88 ; erects a flag-statf, 120 ; display 
of magic lantern by, 121 ; marches 
with troops to Belinian, 130 ; as.sists 
in forcing gateway of stockade. 132 ; 
vi.sits slave-traders' camp, 137 ; 
narrow escape of, 148 ; assists in 
capture of cattle, 162 ; occupies an 
island abounding with corn, 183 ; 
returns from Gondokoro, 192 ; shoots 
elephant, 209 ; makes observations 
from sun)mit of Mount liegiaf, 224; 
marches to Fatiko, 257 ; visits Kab- 
ba liega, 324 ; assists in drawing 
plan of fttockade, 354 ; clears away 
trees, 396 ; superintends canoe- 
buildiug, 399; decorated by the 



Khedive, 463 ; geographical observ- 
ations of, 469 ; honourable mention 
of, 470 ; mean temperatures arranged 
by, 501 ; meteorological register kept 
by, 502 ; observations for determin- 
ation of heights made by, 504. 

Baleniceps Rex, shooting, 22, 29, 91. 

Bamba, the magic throne, held in 
great veneration, 354, 374. 

Barega, situation and people of, 290. 

Baris, form alliance with the Loquia, 
149 ; steal corn, 154, 160, 16i ; a 
female foreign minister amongst, 
160'; treachery of, 164, 165, 166; 
renew hostilities, 166 ; attack Major 
Abdullah's party, 184; a friendly 
tribe of, 194 ; sue for peace, 202 ; 
geological aspect of country of, 196 ; 
peace established with, 202. 

Baris of Bedden, friendly demeanour 
of the, 194 ; visit Ismailia, ib. ; 
moral intiuence of elephant hunt 
upon, 201 ; hostility of, 229 ; make 
night attaint, 230 ; villages of, de- 
stroyed, 231 ; treachery of the, 244 ; 
attack Major Abdullah, ih. 

Baris of Belinian, sheik of, murdered 
by Abou Saood, 112 ; particulars of, 
118; sheik of, declines to attend 
conference, 125 ; night ^march to 
Belinian, 130 et seq. ; the attack on 
Belinian, 157 et seq.; war with, 
158 — 170; blamed for war, 202 ; 
shelter deserters, 454. 

Baris oi Gondokoro, skeik of, 107 ; 
expelled by the Loquia, 109; un- 
friendly conduct of the, 114 et 
seq.; stockades of, 116; warlike 
character of, 118; form alliance with 
those of Belinian, 118, 130; tamper 
with troops, 123 ; confiscation of 
cattle of, 123, 126; agreement with, 
124 ; completely abandon troops, 
127 ; make night attempt to recover 
cattle, ib. ; attack working party, 
ib. ; war with, 128 ; women of, 134 , 
constant attacks by, 139, 148. 

Baris of Regiaf, in alliance with those 
of Belinian, 178 ; hostile attitude of, 
ib. ; rich in corn, 180 ; occupation of 
territory of, 181. 

Bari system of farming, 196 ; pro- 
ducts, 208 ; method of catching 
elephants, 209; guides, 377, 395. 

Bark cloth, Kabba Kega's robe o^ 
309 ; preparation of, 331. 

B.^irooudi (Speke's "Urundi"), 347. 

Bartholoinc, M., French trader, 112. 

Bartooma, (M.), 290. 



INDEX. 



515 



Btizaine, Marshal, soldiers who had 
fought under, 8, 191. 

Bedawi, the guide, 21. 

Bedden, Bari chief, visits Sir S. 
Baker at Ismailia, 195 ; mentioned, 
203; treacherous conduct, 225 et seq. 

Bclinian, attack upon, 130 et seq. ; 
Baris of, vide Baris ; river of, 162 ; 
mountain of, 168. 

Bellaal, a ne^-ro boy, 364, 437, 462. 

Berber, 8, 10 ; frightful change in the 
aspect of country near, 65 ; iiu- 
pro vei n cuts at, 462. 

Besheer, swears information against 
Abou Saood, 416. 

" Bismillah !" wonderful effect of ex- 
claiming, 213. 

Biwmont, Vicomte de, French lieu- 
tenant de vaisseau, arrives at 
Khartoum to join expedition, 71 
withdraws on receiving news of 
battle of Sedan, 79. 

Black troops. 25. 

Blue Nile, the, 15. 

Bohooma, curious Unyoro customs 

respecting the, 290. 
Bohr tribes, 106 ; station, 269. 
Bokamba, 356. 
Bonn^ggesah, 356. 

Bonosoora. the, Kabba Rega's body- 
guard, 343 ; then- pay, 353. 

Booamba. a cannibal district, 347. 

Boulti {Perea Nilotica), 25. 
Boxer" hollow bullets, 211. 

Buffalo'es, 21, 32, 42. 

Cairo, delays at, 9; start from, 10; 
horses trum. 14; disappointments at, 
16; arliiitTvinen from, 29; criminals 
from, employed as soldiers, 51 ; 
ploughs from, 67; postal communi- 
cation with, 79 ; Abou Saood' s pro- 
ceedings at, 421, 457, 459 ; Sir S. 
Baker's return to, 462. 

Cairo-Khartoum railway, 467, 470, 

Camels, 10 ; retui'n to Cairo of sloops 
transpon in^-, 13 ; need of, 228 et seq. 

Cameron, Lieutenant, 449, 471. 

Camp at Tewfikeeyah, 49 ; at Gondo- 
koro. 111; regulations at Gondo- 
koro, ib. 

Canals, 20. 23, 24, 456. 

Cannon, effect on natives, 201, 203. 

Cattle, of Baris confiscated, 123, 126; 
activity of Bari, 162; of Abou Saood 
confiscated, 138 ; carried off by 
Abou Saood, 152. 

Central Africa, extreme fertility and 
healthy climate of, 1 ; number of 
slaves annually taken from, 2 ; 



slavers' atrocities in, 3, 274, 315, 
410, 422 ; leased to slave-traders, 
74 ; future steam transport of, 253 ; 
game laws in, 434 ; missionary la- 
bour in, 475 ; geography of, ib. ; 
languages of, 478 ; domestic animals 
of, 479 ; diseases of, ib. ; hints to 
travellers in, 481. 

Ceylon, farming in, 67 ; canoes, 399. 

Cherif Pacha, sympathizes with slave 
suppression, 5 ; no reply from, 460 ; 
admirable representative of the edu- 
cated Circassian, ib. ; member of 
secret tribunal, 463. 

Cbcrri-Merri, an African boy, 342, 
351, 370. 

Chibero, 347, 432. 

Chorab, a travelling sack used for 
carrying flour, 247. 

Chorobeze, 305, 387. 

Co-co-me, the supposed cry of a bird 
in Unyoro, 390, 392. 

Cojoor (magic), 319, 335, &c. 

Congo (liiver), possible junction of, 
with the Lualaba, 69, 475. 

Congow, General, M'tese's com- 
mander-in-chief, 357, 432, 447, 449. 

Conspiracy among officers, 176. 

Corn-tax paid by natives, 418, 433. 

Cotton, Shillook, 56 ; at Gondokoro, 
208. 

Cow, a vicioiis, 162. 

Crews, difficult to get together, 14. 

Crocodile, man carried off by a, 21, 
jammed between rafts, 28 ; a 
friendly, 31 ; man seized by a, 140, 
141 ; woman carried off by a, 141 ; 
shot, 142. 

Croix, St., deserted mission station afe, 
106. 

Cuckoo, African boy, 220, 238, 257 ; 
wishes to discard his father, 481. 

Damalis Senegalensis, antelope found 

south of the Sobat, 33, n. 
Darfur, annual importation of slaves 

via, 2 ; settlement on frontier, 12. 
Deang, a native village, 293. 
Death, from sickness, 24, 28, 29, 37, 

106 ; of Dr. Gedge, 82 ; of Monsoor 

and Ferritch Bagg;ira, 365 ; of 
Ramadan and Hafiz, 376 ; of 

Howarti, 381; of the "fat boy," 

394; of Mr. Higginbotham, 453; 

of Mr. David Samson, 462. 
Debono, Andrea, an ivory merchant 

trading in Central Africa, 272. 
Delays and difficulties, at Cairo, 9; 

occasioned by opening of Suez Canal, 

ib. ; at Khartoum, through negii- 
LL 2 



516 



IXDEX. 



gence and secret opposition of Egyp- 
tian officials, 12 ; occasioned by Nile 
obstructions, vide Sudd ; by insuffi- 
cient means of transport, 71 ; by 
neglifrence or opposition of subordi- 
nates, 8-5, 90, 91 : at Gondokoro, 217 
et seq. ; through Bedden's breach of 
faith, 22-5 et seq. 

Dest^rtion, cases of : capture and mock 
execution of a deserter, 40 et seq. ; 
six soldiers desert, 104 ; capture of 
a deserter, 247 ; deserters shot at 
Gondokoro, 454, 455 ; deserter killed 
in fight with Baris ot Belinian, 454. 

Dhurra {Sorgham indgare), 116 ; 
scarcity of, 153 ; in lariie quantities 
at Belinian and Rtgiaf, 155, 180 ; 
occupation of an island abounding 
with, 183. 

Diahbeeah, charged by a hippopotamus, 
22 ; a dwelling for Sir S. and Lady 
Baker, 52, 80. 

Dinka country, depopulated by slavers, 
54 ; natives of. 145. 

Difatfection amongst the troops, 170. 

Djiafter Pacha, governor-general of 
the Soudan, places too much confi- 
dence in his officers, 11 ; arranges 
for a year's delay at Khartoum. 12 ; 
his expedition to the Bahr Gazal, 
ib. ; supplies Sir S. Baker with very 
irregular cavalry, 14 ; employs K ut- 
chuk Ali, 21 ; letter from, 42 ; and 
Quat Kare, 50 ; neglects to obtain 
necessary vessels, 1\ et seq. ; ap])lied 
to for supplies of men and food, 193 ; 
mentioned, 7, 14, 16. 

Djoor (River), musicians from Pongo 
on, 64 ; an I the western outlet of 
the Bahr Gazal, 69. 

Dolape palm {Borassus Ethiopicus), 
appearance of, 47. 254 ; used for 
canoe building, 398. 

Domestic arniniiement at Gondokoro, 
173, 219; at Masindi, 328. 

Dome palm {Fulma Tliehaica)^ 47. 

Dongola, sailors from, 65. 

Drift vegetation, 20 et seq. 

Eddrees, a vakeel of Abou Saood, and 
formerly a member of Ibrahim's 
party, visits Sir S. Baker, 283 ; 
otters his services to the government, 
285; at Foweera, 299; ill with 
dysentery, 338 ; receives secret in- 
structions irom Sir S. Baker, 345 ; 
death of, 426. 

Egypt, natives of, engaged in slave- 
hunting, 2; builtliiig materials irom, 
48 ; mechanics from, 53. 



Egyptian soldiers, formerly convicted 
felons, 8, 51 ; employed in cutting 
canals, 25 ; unhealthy constitutions 
of, 37, 48 ; miserable spirit of, 64, 
65, 83 ; desertions of, 104, 122. 

Egyptian mechanics, 13, 53 ; pro- 
crastination, 12 ; fanaticism, 29 ; 
cotton, 173 ; artillerymen, 245. 

Egyptian government and Abon 
Saood, 421, 457, 459, 463 et seq.; 
and the slave trade. 457, 458. 

Elephants, sudden appearance of, at 
Gondokoro, 197 ; two elephants shot 
south of Regiaf, 199 ; specific gravity 
of, 201 ; Lieutenant Baker shoots a 
bull elephant near the camp, 209 1 
nocturnal visit of, ib. ; strength of, 
210 ; elephant gathers fruit of the 
heglik, ib. 

Ellis, F.R.A.S., Mr. W., results of 
Lieutenant Baker's astronomical 
observations arranged by, 508. 

Ellqmjpnjmna antelopes, 41. 

Engineering workshops at Tewfikee- 
yah, 53 ; operations at Gondokoro, 
455, 471. 

English, mechanics, 174 ; engineers, 
234, 455, 471 ; news received in 
Central Africa, 452 ; partj returns 
to Gondokoro for the purpose of 
constructing- steamers, 234. 

Explosive shell invented by Sir S. 
Baker, effect of the, 27, 31. 

Fabbo, keen competition for purchase 
of ivory between traders at, and 
those of other stations, 273 ; Sulei- 
man in command at, 408 ; Abou 
Saood carries ivory to, 409 ; rebels 
at, 417; slaver's atrocities at, 422; 
garrisoned, 451. 

Faddul (" Forty") wounded, 394. 

Faddul-Moolah, dives fur a hippopota- 
mus, 31. 

FadluUah ("Forty Thieves") severely 
burnt, 384. 

Faloro, slavers' station at, 407. 

Farragenia, station, 255; rebels, 417. 

Fashoda, arrival of Sir S. Baker's 
party at, 16 ; governor of, vide Ali 
Bey ; and Bahr Giraffe junction, 
difference of journeys between, 91 ; 
Sir S. Baker's return to, 458. 

Fatiko, arrival at, 257 , Abou Saood's 
encampment at, 259 ; geographical 
position of, 260 ; natives of, 261, 
281 ; return of Lazim's slave-hunt- 
ing party to, 268 ; government sta- 
tion at, 275, 280 ; bad news from, 
332 ; postal party leaves Maisiudi 



INDEX. 



517 



for, 340 ; perilous journey of post 
for, 377, 407, 424; Sir S. Baker's 
return to, 410 ; treachery of slavers 
at, 411; defeat of rebels at, 414; 
completion of fort at, 432; great 
hunt with natives at, 436 ; night 
nurseries at, 440 ; peace and har- 
mony established at, 445 ; garri- 
soned, 451. 
Fazokle, 272. 

Ferritch Agha, Lieut. (" Forty"), pro- 
motion of, 144 ; Sir S. Baker's 
opinion of, 169 ; his former service 
in Mexico under Bazaine, 219 ; na- 
tionality of, 446 ; despatched with 
letter to Ismail Pacha, 459. 

Ferritch Ajoke, a Pongo soldier 
("Forty Tliieves"), dese^-ts, 40; 
subsequent career of, 144, 169. 

Ferritch Baggara (" Forty Thieves"), 
Sir S. Baker's opinion of, 169 ; fatal 
mission of, 362 ; murder of, 365 ; 
tribute to the memory of, 391. 

Fig-tree {Ficus Indica)^ halt beneath 
a, 238; Sir S. Baker's tent at 
Masindi pitched under a, 308 

Fleet, for transport of expedition, 7 ; 
vexatious delays at Khartoum in 
connection with the, 12 ; purchase 
and preparation of vessels for the, 
13 ; stuck fast in sudd of the Nile, 
33 ; enters the White Nile, 104. 

Flogging, for desertion, 41 ; for theft, 
51, 123 ; for neglect of duty, 81 ; for 
disobedience of orders, 105, 123 ; for 
pillage, 172 ; of Suleiman, 303 ; of 
a soldier for connivance at Lazim's 
escape, 429. 

Foquatcb, 282. 

Fort at Gondokoro, 151 et seq. 

" Forty Thieves," Sir S. Baker's com- 
pany of picked men, formation of 
the corps, 15 ; distinctive dress of, 
145 ; take no part in the military 
conspiracy, 176 ; horrible supersti- 
tion amongst, 393 ; parting with, 
455 ; gallant and distinguished ser- 
vices of, 81, 97, 105, 110, 113. 123, 
128, 130, 131, 132, 133, 144, 149, 
150, 151, 157, 160, 162, 166, 172, 
183, 198, 212, 214, 222, 229, 233, 
250, 257, 291, 365, 370, 377, 393. 

Foweera, station at, 293, 377 ; arrival 
at, 397 ; stockade at, ib. 

Francolin partridges, found in abund- 
ance on the banks of the Bahr 
Giraffe, 19. 

Frere, Sir Bartle, extract from letter of 
Dr. Livingstone addressed to, 476 . 

French, H.I.M. the Empress of the, 



sends Lady Baker a token of her 
sympathy with the expedition, 71 ; 
volunteers join the expedition, ib.; 
volunteers return to Euroj^e uiter 
the battle of Sedan, 79. 
Fuel, scarcity of, 19 ; laying in sup- 
plies of, 21, 42, 47. 

Galla country, torrents from the, emp- 
tying into the Subat, 17. 

Gal las, conquerui's of Unyoro, 2i»0, 
304. 

Galvanized iron, adaptability of, fur 
building purposes in tropical coun- 
tries, 207. 

Game laws in Central Africa, 434. 

Gardens at Tevvfikeeyah, 52 ; at Gon- 
dokoro, 111; at Masindi, 328, 342; 
at Fatiko, 424. 

Gebel Forke (M.), scenery near, 242. 

Gebel Kuku, bearings of, 255. 

Gedge, Dr. Joseph, chief medical offi- 
cer, joins expedition, 6 ; starts from 
Cairo, 10 ; overtakes main body, 46 ; 
illness of, 70 ; death of, 82. 

Geographical discussions with native 
chiefs, 290 ; information obtained 
from M'tese's envoys, 447 ; notes, 
485. 

Geurgis, Dr., Greek physician to the 
forces, attends Dr. Gedge, 71. 

Ghattas, an ivory and slave-trader, 
boats overtaken on Bahr Giralfe, 39. 

Ghebbelli tobacco, 230. 

Gimoro, guide, 262, 279, 424, 436, 
455. 

Giratfe-hunting, 42. 

Gobbohr, halt at, 239. 

Gonah, a Langgo chief, 404. 

Gondokoro, arrival of expedition, 106 ; 
slave-trading operations at, 109 ; 
station at, 111 ; attack upon station 
at, 149 ; completion of fort at, 173 ; 
drought at, 176 ; corn supply for, 
182 ; native visitors to, 204, 208 ; 
return to, at close of the Bari cam- 
paign, 205 ; fortified posts commu- 
nicating with, 217 ; return of Eng- 
lish engineers to, 234 ; reinforce- 
ments from, 430 ; Sir S. Baker's final 
visit to, 454 ; the steamer Khedive 
built at, ib.; final departure from, 
455. 

Googoos, native term for corn store- 
houses, 116, 179, 197. 

Goose, the crimsou-headed, 66. 

Gordon, Lieuteuant-Colouel, Sir S. 
Baker's successor, 253, 449, 471. 

Grinding corn, Egyptian notions 
about, 51. 



518 



INDEX. 



Guides, experience of, 18 ; Bari guides, 

o77, 378, 395. 
Guiuea-fuwi, 66, 406. 

Hadj, a Molaammedan festival, 24. 
Hatiz, the farrier, murder of, 376 ; 

otherwise mentioned, 372, 374. 
Han?all, Mr., Austrian consul at 

Khartoum, 12. 
Hei;lik {Balauites Egyptiaca)^ fruit 

of, 208 ; elephants attracted by fruit 

of, 210. 

Hemp {Hibiscus), Sir S. Baker per- 
suades Baris to cultivate, 208 ; Bari 
use of, ib. 

Herpestvis, a genus of cat, 66. 

Higu,-inbutnani, Mr. Edwin, engineer- 
in-chief, joins expedition, 6 ; cuui- 
niand intrusted to, 7 ; letter from, 
42 ; illness of, 83, 89 ; energy of, 88 ; 
constructs a dam across the Bahr 
Giratfe, 99 ; last parting wilh, 221 ; 
death of, 453; grave of, 455; dis- 
tinguished services of, 10, 13, 14, 
16. 25, 29, 31, 99, 112, 130, 131, 
132, 151, 153, 174, 177, 207, 209. 

Hillet - el - dolade, native village de- 
stroyed by governor of F.ish jda, 47. 

Hippopotauuis hunting, 18 ; diah- 
beeah charged bv a, 22 ; e.vciring 
hunt of a, 26, 39 ;' frightful etfec.t of 
the "Baker" explosive shell upon, 
27, 31, 100 ; furious attack by a, 
101 et scq. ; an impenetrable, 211. 
ippot)-(ifins antelopj„% a3. 

llilil)i}tr(iijun Xi(jer, 33, 87. 

liitcliuian, Mr., English shipwright, 6. 

H,)es, Unvor.) natives u.se, ol4, 369. 

" Holland'"' ririe, 200. 

Ilowarti, the tisheriiian, catches fish 
by exclaiming Bismillah 1" 213; 
death of, 381; mentioned, 93, 212, 
219, 223, 391. 

Hussein Halifa or Khalifah, Arab 
sheik intrusted with management 
of de.<ert transport, 79 ; appointed 
governor of Berber, 462. 

Ibn Batuta, extract from writings of, 

allording evidence of antiquity of 

the ceieuKJuy at death of a king of 

Unyoro, 317. 
Ibrahimt-yeh, station at, 217; arrival 

at, 253 ; sport at, 254. 
India-rubber tree on the banks of the 

Sobat, 47. 
Irregular troops, review of, 14 ; en- 

listtnent of, 217, 287, 292. 
Ismail la, name given to the district 

when Sir S. Baker annexed the 



countr\^ formerly known as Gondo- 
koro ; vide Gondokoro. 

IsmaVl Ayoub Pacha, governor of 
Khartoum provinces, his syn»patliy 
with the expedition, 72 ; instructed 
to telegraph to Cairo for arrest of 
Abou Saood, 459 ; his improvements 
at Khartoum, 462. 

Ivoiy, government robbed of, by Abou 
Saood, 205 ; statistics respecting 
transport of, 271 ; brisk coiiipetition 
for, 273 ; trade in Uganda, 320 ; car- 
ried to Fabbo by Abou Saood, 409. 

Jarda, a Belinian chief, friendly rela- 
tions with, 160 ; and his diplomatic 
sister, 163 ; proposes an alliance, 
164. 

Jangv, unfaii'lv elected king of the 
Shillooks, 50, 60 ; deposed, 82. 

Jarvah, the "fat boy," 219; death 
of, 394. 

Jar vis, Mr., chief shipwright, 6, 53. 
Juba (River), particulars respecting, 
275. 

Jusef EfFcndi, governor of Fashoda, 

interview wilh, 458. 
J uset station destroyed by natives, 268. 

Kabba Rega, king of Unyoro, par- 
ticulars i-especting his succession to 
throne (jf Kanirasi, 264, 284 ; pre- 
sents for, 28-5 ; message to, by 
Quonga, 287 ; policy of, 290, 372*; 
his projecteil attack upon Rionga 
frustrated, 295 ; obtains throne by 
the murder of Kabka Miro, 305"; 
visited by Sir S. Baker, 307; his 
dread of the slave-trtulers, 1^10 ; his 
hatred of Rioiiga, Sll, 314, 320; 
sends presents, aud coi;iplaius of 
Abou Saood, bl5; spies u^jou Sir 
S. Baker's movements, 324 ; visits 
Sir S. Baker's new residence at Ma- 
sindi, 334 ; present at formal an- 
nexation of territory, 337 ; steals 
guns and ammunition, 338 ; desires 
monopoly of ivory trade, 311 ; 
suspected of foul play, 345 ; sends 
jioisoned merissa to the troops, 359 ; 
attacks government station, 363; 
sues for peace, 371 ; diabolical 
treachery of, 376, 400 ; Rionga's 
inforn>ation resjxjcting, 403 ; defeat 
and llight of, 432 ; disivppearance (jf, 
451 ; mentioned, 398, 418. 

Kabka Miro, rightful heir to Kani- 
rasi, murdered by Kabba Rega, 
281, 305. 

KuoLoyu, 317. 



INDEX. 



519 



Kadji-Barri, 350, 352. 

Kauiiasi, father of KabbaReg^a, death 
of, 284; Sir S. Bakers visit to 
Unj'oro in the reign of, 315, 371. 

Karagwe, 289, 292, 315. 

Karka, female slave, liberated, 173. 

Kaseega, halt at, 393. 

Keedja, ex-chief of Atada, visits Sir 
S. IBaker near Masiudi, 285. 

Kerrison, Sir E., rifle lent by, 35. 

Khartoum slave-merchants, 2, 73, 126. 

Kliartoum, diminished, population of, 
11 ; injurious efiect of quartering 
troops at, 12 ; departure from, 15 ; 
Sir S. Baker meets with vessels 
from, 42 ; letter sent from Tewti- 
keeyah to, 64 ; return to, 71 ; second 
depai'ture from, 79 ; distance be- 
tween Gondokoro and, 108 ; return 
of vessels to, 174 ; difliculties of 
communication between Gondokoro 
and, 175, 216 ; sick and incapable 
sent off to, 183 ; vessels return to, 
192 ; mentioned, 7, 8, 10, 16, 18, 32, 
34, 39, 60, 61, 68, 71, 154, 155, 206; 
reinforcements from, 218, 454 ; Is- 
mail Pacha's iniprovenients at, 462. 
Khedive of Egypt, his Highness Is- 
mail Pacha, firman of, appointing 
Sir S. Baker, 3 ; his orders neutral- 
ized, 12 ; and the Khartoum mer- 
chants, 73; officers' letter of com- 
plaint forwarded to, 177 ; formal 
complaint to, 193 ; publicly pro- 
hibits slave-trading, 458 ; receives 
and decorates Sir S. Baker at Cairo, 
463. 
Khor, The, 96. 

Kinyon ("Crocodile"), Bari lad, 219. 

Kirk, Dr., extract from a letter from 
Dr. Livingstone to, 476. 

Kishakka. on the Kittangule, 347. 

Kis(;ona, Suleiman summoned to, 300 ; 
arrival at, 395. 

Kittakara, an Unyoro chief, made 
prisoner, 299 ; gentlemanly demean- 
our of, 304 ; intercedes for Kabba 
Rega, 367; mentioned, 291, 335, 
342, 345,^ 348, 349, 351, 355, 369, 371. 

Kittangule (River), course of the, 347. 

Kooj6k, halt at, 238. 

Koorshood Agba, 90. 

Kordofan, annual importation of 
slaves from Central Africa via Dar- 
fur and, 2. 

Korosko, desert transport from, 7; 
difl[iculty of obtaining a steamer to 
tow flotilla to, 9. 

Koshi country invaded by Makkarika 
cannibals and Ali Emmeeu, 430. 



Kutcbuk Ali, slave-trader, appointed 
to command by Djiatfer Pacha, 12 ; 
outrages committed by his pei.pl.', 
21 ; arrival at station of, 40; nuu- 
ioned, 61, 64, 72, 90. 

Lacustrine region, survey of, 24; for- 
mation of soil in, 37. 

Langgo, country, 274 ; natives, ib. ; 
chief, 404. 

Latooka, station at, 205 ; deserters to, 
209 ; rebels retire to, 423 ; men- 
tioned, 251, 252, 269. 

Lav missionaries for Central Africa, 
467. 

Lazim, an emploi/c of Abou Saood, 
267; capture of, 422; escape of, 
428 ; death of, 429. 

Le Blanc, Monsieur, 79. 

Leopard, boy attacked by a, 441. 

Lepidosireii annccfens, a very useful 
and agreeable fish for food, 406. 

Leucotis antelopes, 432, 439. 440, 441. 

Lifeboat, loss of section of a, 84; 
recovery of .section of a, 89. 

Lion-hunting, disappointment wh 1st, 
19; fight with a lioness, 432. 

Lira, a country rich in ivory, 274; 
donkeys found in, ih. 

Livingstone, Dr. David, erroneous 
theory of, 69; Sir S. Baker's in- 
quiries after, 292, 346, 357, 447 ; in- 
telligence of, 448 ; Sir S. Baker's 
letter to, sent by M'tese's envoys, 
ib. ; researches of, 475 ; on the 
Tanganyika, 476 ; on the Lualaba, 
477. 

Lobl ohr, country of the, 275. 

Lobore, transport of luggage to, 225 
et seq. ; advance to, 232 et seq. ; pre- 
parations for the march to, 235 ; 
start for, 237; arrival at, 240; 
language of, ib. ; natives of, ib. ; 
customs, 248 ; knowledge of the 
lever, ib. ; dishonesty amongst na- 
tives of, 249 ; carriers, 250 278 ; na- 
tives kill a buffalo, 255 ; words, 478. 

Lokara, Kabba Rega's commander-in- 
chief, 287, 288, 291. 

Lokko (' Oom Nickla'), Bari chief, 164. 

Loquia, Bari tribe, invade Alloriou's 
district, 109 ; capture cattle belong- 
ing to hostile tribe, 163 ; mentioned, 
107, 124, 125, 149, 150. 

Lualaba (River), position and course 
of, 69 ; discussions respecting, 475. 

Machinery, transport of, 9. 
Machoonda, Albert N'yan za beyond, 
347. 



520 



INDEX. 



Madi tribe, infrenions method of chain- 
ing prisoners anionprst, 248 ; villnces 
of, destroyed by Abou Saood, 251 ; 
attack slavers. 2fi4. 

Magazine at Tewtikeeyah, 48. 

Magnetic battery, beneficial effects of 
a shock from, 30 ; considered magi- 
cal by natives, 196; exhibited to 
Kabba Resa, 334; exhibited to 
M'tese envoys, 358. 

Magnnsro, mountains of, 282 : natives 
of, 377 ; lake journey to, 447 ; men- 
tioned. 475. 

Mahomet Tewfik Pacha, the Khedive's 
eldest son, Sir S. Baker name- his 
first settlement in the Shillook 
country after, 51. 

Makkarikas, a cannibal tribe induced 
by Ali Emnieen to invade the Koshi 
country, 430 ; attacked by small- 
pox, 431. 

Marcopolo, Mr., chief storekeeper, 
arrives at Cairo, 13; his duties at 
Te-wfikecyah, 52 ; honourably men- 
tioned, 471 ; mentioned, 6, 221, 234, 
455. 

Marengo, 239. 

Marshes, cutting through, 24 et seq. 

Mashndi. Rionga's stronghold, 368; 
M'tese sends auxiliary army to. 447. 

Masindi, capital ofUnyuro, disarming 
of slave-traders at. 306 ; erovernment 
house at, 315. 322. 328; M'teses 
envoy to Kabba Rega at, 315 ; 
messengers from Faieera arrive at, 
332 ; nightly murders at, 344 ; war- 
like demonstration of natives at, 
350 ; fort conslructed at, 354 ; in 
flames. 364 ; battle of, 365 ; night 
incendiarism at, 375 ; station at, 
fired, 379 : retrcnt from, 380 ; night 
bivouac I'cav. 382. 

Matonsc, an Unvoro chief, visits Sir 
S. Bnls-er, 2SS :' tiiben prisoner, 299; 
conceives a dislike for Monsoor, 
335; present at hosrile demonsti-a- 
tion of natives, 349; brinj>-s poisonr d 
merissa from Kabba J{ega, 359; 
Monsoor summons him before Sir S. 
Baker before I atfle of Masindi, 301. 

Masons at Gondokoro, 207. 

McWilliam, Mr., chief mechanical 
engineer of steamers, 6, 53. 

Meri, a Bari chief. 205. 

Merissa rcrmx Marsala, a fomented 
drink, 15 6 ; jars of poisoned, sent by 
Kabba Re-a, 359. 

Military arrajij^enients. for the expe- 
dition. 8 ; during- the Bari war, 187 ; 
for reduction cf the force, 193 ; pre- 



vious to advancing soutli from Gon- 
dokoro, 206, 217 ; in respect of 
irregular troops, 14, 287, 292. 

Jilinieh, the steamer, tows vessels, 10. 

Mohammed Deii, Captain and aide-de- 
camp, sent with a party to recall 
Abdullah's detachment, 186 ; ac- 
companies Sir S Baker to Pnroro, 
219 ; on the march to Lobore, 238 ; 
his mission to Suleiman, 300 ; pro- 
moted, 464. 

Mohammed-el-Feel, "Forty Thieves," 
145,385. 

Mohammed Haroon, Sir S. Baker's 
servant, 130. 

Mohammed Mustapha, Lieut., 391. 

Mohammed "Wat - el - Mek, Abou 
Saood's vakeel, invades Koshi dis- 
trict. 271 ; in concealment, 272 ; en- 
tertains Speke and Grant, ib. ; geo- 
graphical discoveries of, 274 ; com- 
mand of irregular corps offered to, 
340 ; appointed Abou Saood's com- 
mander, 407 ; his anxiety to serve 
the government, 408 ; capture of, 
414 ; his evidence against Abou 
Saood. 416 ; his superstition and 
vow of fidelity, 417; his useful in- 
fluence, 422 : retires from 'Fabbo, 
423 ; intercedes for Suleiman. 427 ; 
sent to Gondokoro for reinforce- 
ments, 430, 449 ; retums to Fatiko, 
450 ; brings news from Eunipe, 452 ; 
returns finally to Fatiko from Gon- 
dokoro, 455. 

Mohannned, camel-driver, delis-hted 
at meeting Sir S. and Lady Baker, 
209. 

Mohammed the sailor, 219, 223. 

Mohammed, a former Cairo dragoman 
of Sir S. Baker, unexpected meeting 
with, 259; gives valuable informa- 
tion, 263; fidelity of, 410; .sent 
with Fatiko post, 424 ; mentioned, 
288, 294, 332. 

Molodi, a Madi, 348, 353, 377, 398, 
438. 

Monsoor, Lieut. ("Forty Thieves"), 
Sir S. Baker's favourite officer, 97 ; 
visits slavers' cainp with Sir S. 
Baker, 137; promptitude and fidel- 
ity of, 172, 331 ; accompanies Sir 
S. Baker to Unyoro, 219 ; cheerful 
industry of, 237 ; accompanies Sir 
S. Baker to Kabba Rcga's presence, 
324 ; native confidence in, 341 ; his 
demeanour in a critical situation, 
349 ; sent to Kabba Rega for food, 
359 ; departs on a mission to summon 
Mutonse, 361 ; murder of, 305 ; an- 



INDEX. 



521 



niversary of his death, 370; regret 
for, 391, 421 ; mentioned, 162, 186, 
187, 194. 

Mooge, encampment, 240 ; sheik, 241. 
Moomtazz Bey, governor of Souakim, 
10. 

Mostoora, little native girl protected 
by Lady Baker, 61; sent to Khar- 
toum to be educated, 221. 

Morbe, Bari chief, elected the respons- 
ible sheik of the Baris, 124. 

Mor^iati Agha, Lieutenant, 219, 305. 

Morgian Sherritf, Captain, gallant 
conduct of, 158 ; previous military 
experience of, 219. 

Morgian, the guide and interpreter, 
134, 14S, 166, 194, 257, 347. 

M'rooli, distance of Albert N'yanza 
from, 290 ; proposed combined at- 
tack upon, 4U5. 

M'tese, powerful and excellent king of 
Uganda, conversion to Mohammed- 
anis.a, 264; invades Unyoro, 432 ; 
sends envoys to Fatiko, 447 ; opens 
communicarion between Fatiko and 
Zanzibar, 448. 

Mustapha Ali, flogged for engaging in 
prohibited traffic with natives, 105. 

M'wootanN'zige, AlbertN'yanza. 

Native carriers, 298, 305, 306, 409. 

Negheel, a hue kind of grass, 110. 

Negroes, class feeling amongst, 145; 
peculiar cliaracter of, 204 ; vide 
Central Africa. 

Nersho, a respectable native educated 
by Austrian missionaries, 239. 

Neka, an Unyoro chief, 335, 339. 

Niambore, a friendly sheik, 136; is 
the bearer of bad news, 152. 

Nile (Uiver), vessels start from Cairo 
for vjyage up, 10 ; character of 
obstruction in, 18 {vide Sudd) ; 
basin of, 3, 4, 69 ; particulars re- 
specting, 254. 

Nile, the Blue, 69. 

N'kole, 347. 

Noba, a superior African caste, 145. 

Nubar Facha, favourable to expedi- 
tion, 5 ; docuiuentary evidence 
against Abou Saood handed to, 463 
et seq. 

Nubian desert, transportation of lake 
steamers across the, 5, 10, 79, 462. 
Nubian sailors, 65. 

Okooloo, an Unyoro warrior, 404. 
Orchid, curious specimen of, 297. 
Origin of White Nile slave-trade, 125. 
Ostrich-hunting, 54. 



Paniadoli garrisoned, 451. 

Parrots, natives regard with awe,' 195. 

Pigs, w.ld, 243. 

Pistia Stratiotes, river-weed, 23 ; im- 
mense quantities in Nile, 477. 

Pittia, a native interpreter, brings a 
message from liedden, 228 ; men- 
tioned, 227, 288, 290, 291, 298, 424. 

Plantain grove, halt in a, 392. 

Pongo, desertion and mock execution 
of a soldier, a native of, 40, 144 ; 
slave sent as a present to Sir S. 
Baker, 47 ; musicians from, 65. 

Poncet, Jules, French trader, 89, 105. 

Prince of Wales, H.R.H., his sym- 
pathy with the expedition, 3. 

Princess of Wales, H.R.H., native 
admiration of, 335. 

Prisoner, old friend recognized in, 400. 

Froli/pterus, a species of fish, a great 
take of, 25. 

Provisions for the expedition, 9; 
scarcity of, 400, 409. 

" Purdey " rifle, 35. 

Quat Kare, king of Shillooks, interview 
with, 49 ; stoical conduct of himself 
and wives. 51 ; invited to a meeting 
with Ali Bey, 58 et seq. ; entertained 
by Sir S. Baker, 61 ; his three sons 
sent to Khartoum, 64; restored to 
power, 82 ; assists in recovery of 
a sunken vessel, 88 ; New Year's 
gift to, 89. 

Quay at Tewfikeeyah, 51. 

Queen, H.M., photograph of, 335. 

Quonga, adviser of. Kamrasi, 284, 
286, 288, 291, 301, 304, 335. 

Rahonka, Unyoro chief, 291, 293, 
296, 298, 299, 308, 335, 349, 351, 
355, 371, 372. 

Rain-maker, Lokko, the old, 236. 

Ramadan, Mohammedan Festival, 83. 

Ramadan, schoolmaster at Masindi, 
342; carries musical-box to Kabba 
Rega, 372. 374; murder of, 376; 
regret for, 391. 

Ramsall, Mr., English boiler-maker, 6. 

Raouf Bey, Colonel, 86, 139 ; forwards 
letter of complaint from the officers, 
176 ; Sir S. Baker's instructions to, 
before leaving Gondokoro for Un- 
yoro, 221 ; oi-dered to take charge of 
prisoners, 340 : connives at flight of 
Abou Saood, 421 ; conduct in com- 
mand at Gondokoro, 454. 

Rawlinson, Sir H., extract from a 
letter from Dr. Livingstone to, 477. 

Red Sea, perilous navigation, 10, 463, 



522 



INDEX. 



" Reilly " breechlnader, 26. 

Keg-iaf (Mount), the Baris of, 178; 
observations troni summit of, 1224 ; 
curious rock at base of, ib.; suddeu 
change in tke Xile at. 477. 

Riong-a, Unyoro chief, 284 ; proposed 
attack on, 291 ; his ancient feud, 
310, 311, 314. 326 ; contemplated al- 
liance with, 368 ; orders for march 
to, 378 ; march i'runi Masindi to, 
379 ; arrival in district of, 398 ; 
Sir S. Baker r<-H'eives a message 
fruni. 401 ; meets Sir S. Baker, 402 ; 
goes thnjugh tlie ceremony of ex- 
changing blood v. ith him, 404 ; pro- 
claimed king of Unyunj vice Kabba 
Rega, 405 ; Ali Genninar despatched 
with troops and present fur, 422 ; 
defeats Kabba llega, 432. 

Rockets, native notiuns respecting, 
328 : vide Hale's Rockets. 

Rot Jarma, 278 ; fidelity of, 406, 408 ; 
mentioned, 263, 332, 407, 408. 

Route arrangements, 7. 

Runianika, king of Karagwe, 345. 

Saat. negro boy, 219, 223, 364, 437, 
442. 

Saat Chonsh, champion, shot, 393. 

Said, native boy, catches some fish of 
the Silurus .species, 113. 

Said .\gha, native of Sishuaali, 446. 

Said Pacha, slave trade formerly pro- 
hibited by, 458. 

Salim-Wat-IIuwah, an employ^ of 
Abou Sauod, 422 ; exploit of, 423 ; 
in hiding, 456, 459; capture of, 461. 

Salt-making, "Forty Thieves" em- 
ployed in, 207. 

Samson, Mr. David, joins expedition, 
6 ; death of, 462. 

Sand-banks, 223. 

Sangrado, 30. 

Schweinfurth, Dr., sends notes on the 
Western Nile Basin to Sir S Baker, 
70 ; his remarks on Sir S. Baker's 
proceedings, 473, 474 ; geographical 
di.-covcries of, 475. 

Sedan, intelligence of battle of, 78. 

Selim, the Suachli, envoy to M'tese, 
449. 

Sen (tar, the, Egyptian war-sloop, 10. 
Seroor (" Forly Thieves"), narrow 

escape of, 393. 
Sesame, an African wood, 116, 16i. 
Sessi lake, 358. 

Shadoof, an Egyptian machine for 

hand irrigation, 143. 
Shallows in the Bahr Giraffe, 94. 
Sharga, a native village, 409, 



Sheik, sad death of an old blind, 158 ; 

" the red sheik," 190. 
Shell, the " Baker" explosive, 27, 31 ; 

novel use for a, 239. 
Sherroom, a Bari guide, 130, 135, 148, 

166, 207. 

Shillooks, arrival in country of, 16 ; 
return to country of. 34 ; plunder of, 
by slave-traders, 42; false king of, 
44 ; present from chief of, 47 ; Visit 
from king of, 48 ; misrule of, 51 ; 
opinions about the expedition 
amongst, 54 : friendly tratiic with, 
56 ; placed in charge of corn, 86 ; 
nientioned, 48, 50. 

Shipwrights, English, 6, 53. 

Shi;' tribe, a detachment of govern- 
ment tr<;ops destroyed by the, 152 ; 
a chief of the, proposes to sell his 
son, 321, 

Shooa, mountain of, 255 ; no tracks of 
large animals between Latooka and, 
25i ; hill, AVat-el-Mek's detachment 
seen near, 450. 

Shooli natives, 261 ; docility of, 263 ; 
peace and harmony established with, 
432 ; hunting season of, 433 ; skill 
as hunters, 441. 

Shooli words, 478 ; animals and birds, 
480. 

Shooli the guide, 279, 424, 436, 450, 
455. 

Sickness, thirty-two cases of, at one 
time, 23 ; from marsh fever, 26, 29 ; 
artillerymen attacked with, 48. 

Silber and Fleming, 7. 

Silurus, a species of fish, 113. 

Sishuaali, officers natives of, 446. 

Slave hunters, Arabs employed as, 2 ; 
Egyptian subjects employed as, ib.; 
traces of, 21, 29; in the Dinka 
country, 54 ; details respecting, 251, 
255 ; render all the native tribes 
hostile, 271; devastations of, 283; 
escape with slaves, 300 ; at Fov\ eera 
and Kisoona, 315; atrocities of, 274, 
409, 422 ; determined opposition of, 
320 ; kept as a rod for natives, 418 ; 
plunder the neighbourhood of Fabbo, 
419; fire upon Sir S. Baker's mes- 
sengers, ib. ; captured at Faslioda, 
461. 

Slave trade, suppression of, 4, 7, 12, 
46, 125, 465, et seq. ; desired by 
the troops, 170 et seq. 

Slaves, discovery of, 62; emancipation 
of, 46, 63, 79 ; female slaves married 
to suldier.s, 63 ; difficulty of manag- 
ing liberated, 80 ; masses of, at 
Abou Saood's stations, 276, 290 ; 



INDEX. 



523 



released, 307, 481 ; restored to their 
homes, 319; purchased for needles, 
320. 

Slave vessels confiscated, 63, 79, 481. 
SmjiU-pox amongst the Makkarikas, 

431 ; amongst slaves, 457. 
Snakes, 25. 
" Snider" rifJes, 191. 
Sohat (Kiver), junction of, 16 ; oripn 

of, 17 ; return to, 47 ; direction of, 

69, 274. 

Soont {Acacia Arahiea), 57, 68, 274. 

Souakim, desert journey between 
Berber and, 10 ; governor of, vide 
Moomtazz Bey ; mentioned, 8, 10, 
13. 

Soudan, the, miserable vessels of, 28 ; 
rule in, 50 ; cotton, 56 ; confusion 
in, 76 ; no help from, 193 ; ancient 
funeral rites in, 317; Ismail Pacha's 
improvements in the, 460. 

Soudan government, 11, 12, 74. 

Soudani^•egiments, 29, 140, 153, 173; 
prefer Central Africa to Khartoum, 
182. 

South, the march, 217 et seq. 
Speke and Grant, 272, 290. 
Sponge-bath used as a boat, 297. 
Sport, 19, 21, 32, 39, 86, 89, 91, 93, 

106, 112, 113, 184, 198, 221, 241, 

281, 439. 
Stable at Tewfikeeyah, 52. 
Steamers fixed, by floating rafts of 

vegetation, 28 ; breakdown of one, 

47. 

Steel corn-mills, 54. 

Stockades, assault on the, 158, 166. 

Stores, 7, 8, 28 ; destroyed by rats 

aiid ants, 52 ; deliberate theft of, 

106. 

Sudd, the, or Nile obstructions, 27, 
28, 53, 68, 82, 93. 104; six vessels 
wrecked in the, 461. 

Suez, 10. 

Suez canal, 9. 

Suleiman, the mis.sionary, 111. 

Suleiman Effendi, 85. 

Suleiman, Sir S. Baker's servant, 198. 

Suleiman, a vakeel of Abou Saood, 
283, 285 ; promises to assist Kabba 
Rega, 291; ivory held by, 293; 
attempts to murder a native, 293, 
296 ; intrigues and venge;'.nce, 295 ; 
ordered to furnish carriers, 298 ; 
trial of, 302 ; publicly flogged, ib. ; 
and Rionga, 403 ; in command at 
Fabbo, 408; with the Fatiko post, 
425 ; surrender and pardon of, 426 
et seq. 

Sunstroke, a death from, 24. 



Taka, mutiny at, 172. 

Tamarind tree, forests of the, 208. 

Tanganyika lake (supposed to be part 
of gi-eat Albert N'yanza), 69, 347, 
448 ; vide Albert N'yanza. 

Taxes in the Soudan, 11. 

Tayib Agha, Lieutenant-Colonel, 86, 
89, 90 ; behindhand on arriving with 
vessels, 93; letter left in a bottle at 
the " Dubbah " for, 94 ; loitering of, 
131 ; Sir S. Baker awails arrival of, 
133; misses path when in ciminiand 
of detachment marching to Belinian, 
134; folly of, 153; cautioned, 154; 
defeat of, 450; superseded, ib. 

Teel (leucofis), 281. 

Tetel {Antelope Bubalis), 241, 242, 
255, 282, 441. 

Tewfikeeyah, government station at, 
49 et seq. ; slaver sighted off, 61 ; 
farming, 65 et seq. ; sport at, 66 ; 
mean temperature at, during May 
to July, 67 ; sudden fall of thermo- 
meter at, 68; return to, in October 
1870, 79 ; station at, dismantled, 82. 

Thief, a nocturnal, 80 ; discovery of 
the, 123; escape cf the, ib. 

Timber, scarcity of, 53. 

Timsah, lake (" Crocodile Lake "), 91. 

Tobacco cultivation in Unyoro, 297. 

Tomby, an interpreter, 112, 125. 

Trieste, fir poles from, 9. 

Troops, discontent amongst, 119 ; lazi- 
ness of, 154 ; laxity of discipline 
among, 172 et seq. ; con^^piracy 
amongst officers of, 176 et seq.; 
better spirit amongst, 205 ; mutin- 
ous gathering of, 232 ; review at 
Fatiko of, 261 ; gallant and soldierly 
conduct of, 392; reported extermin- 
ation of, 407 ; gratuity to, 464 ; vide 
M i 1 i t ar y a r ran gem en ts . 
Tullaboon {Elensijie Coraca)i), 306. 

Uganda, M'tese's capital, Abou Sa- 
ood' s people visit, 264 ; threatened 
transfer of .seat of commerce from 
Masindi to, 287 ; manufacture of 
bark-cloth at, 331. 

Ujiji (pronounced Uyeye) and Ma- 
gungo, lake communication between, 
447 ; Livingstone heard of at, 448. 

Umbogo (the " Buffalo"), speaks Ara- 
bic, 297 ; gives information of Abou 
Saood' s treachery, 301 ; particulars 
of, 315 ; views upon question of 
soap, 316; explains uproar in Ma- 
sindi, 332 ; antecedents of, 344 ; his 
report of native attack, 369 ; men- 
tioned, 356, 361, 362, 367, 369, 373. 



524 



INDEX. 



Ume el Ete, Mohammedan, festival, 
215. 

Umiro, tribe of the, defeat Abou 
Saood's people, 266 ; massacre a 
party of slave-traders, 268; as 
hunters, 282 ; cattle of the, 292. 

Unyanyembe, Sir S. Baker's letter to 
Livingstone reaches, 449 ; commu- 
nication opened with, 471. 

Un-y-Ame (River), proposed general 
depot for steamers near mouth of, 
253 ; channel of, near Fatiko, 280 ; 
murdered women flung into, by 
slavers, 422 ; great hunt near, 437. 

Unyoro, ivory trade in, 218 ; prepara- 
tions for tl\e Journey to, 279; scenery 
between Fatiko and, 280 ; country 
of, devastated bv slave-traders, 
283 ; chiefs visit Sir S. Baker, 291 ; 
chivalrous ceremony in, 304 ; an- 
cient ceremony at death of a king 
of, 316 ; perfpct organization in, 
322; liberation of slaves in, 326; 
commerce established in, 340 ; bene- 
fits conferred on natives of, 354 ; 
natives attack government station at 
Masindi, 363 ; further attacks by 
natives of, 383 ; Rionga proclaimed 
king of, 405 ; extent of, 451 ; words, 
478. 

Vegetable obstructions in Nile, vide 
Sudd. 

Vegetables raised at Tevvfikeeyah, 52. 

Victoria Nile, course of, 69 ; march to 
Suleiman's station on the banks of, 
through beautiful scenery, 283 ; 
width of, at Foweera, 398 ; Rionga's 
strongliold on, 402 ; crossing the, 
406 ; mr<uth of, 475 ; Livingstone's 
erroneous statement respecting width 
of, 476. 

Victoria N'yanza (N^raa Bali), Vic- 
toria Nile of the, 69 ; information 
obtained from natives respecting, 
358. 

Vienna Exhibition, Sir S. Baker's 
botanical collection made during 
this expediti<m forwarded by the 
Khedive to the, 463. 

Vivisection of cattle by slave-himters, 
204. 

"VVady Half ah, time for ascending 
cataracts of tlie, 9. 

Wani, tlu; rcjiuled sheik of the moun- 
tain, visits Sir S. Baker at Bclinian, 
164 et acq. 



"Wani the dragoman, 240. 

Wat-a-jook, villaffe on Sobat, 47. 

AVat-el-Shambi, destinaticm of certain 
boats, 95 ; arrival at, 105. 

Wat-el-Ajoos Oinare, sheik of Fatiko, 
278 ; hunt with people of, 435. 

AVaterbuck (RedtDtca Ellij)s^jprymna) 
in the Shir country, 210 ; on the 
river Asua, 252. 

Water-grass rafts, 20 ; fleet inclosed 
by, 26 ; cutting throuiih, 21 et seq. 

Watuta, M'wootan N'zige passes 
through, 347. 

Wat Hojoly, a vakeel of Abou Saood, 
attempts" to pass Fashoda with 
slaves, 457 et seq. ; taken prisoner 
at Fashoda, 461. 

Waysbba, envoy from Uganda, ar- 
rives at Masindi, 356. 

Welle (River), 475, 476, 477. 

AVhite ants, remarkable exodus of, 294. 

White Nile (Mas-.ba), 5; slave-trade 
of, 11, 125 ; junction of the Sobat 
and, 17; between the Sobat junction 
and Gondokoro, ib. ; obstructed 
vegetable drift, ib. ; totally un- 
navigable, 24 ; exploration of, 31 ; 
rats of, 52 ; uninteresting districts 
of, 53 ; English enterprise in the 
forests of, ///,; exploration of the 
Old, 68 ; great necessity for clear- 
ing the main channel of, 95, 193 ; 
discovery of the Great, 97 ; fleet 
enters. i04 ; changed aspect of, at 
Gondokoro, 107 ; sudden rise and 
frill of. 113; greatest enemy to the 
expedition, 175 ; reconnaissance of 
the last catai-acts of, 193 ; Living- 
stone's erroneous theories respect- 
ing, 477. 
WlijtlieM, Mr., shipwright, 6. ' 
Wild- duck sliooting, 26. 
Wood, Mr., Sir S. Baker's secretary, 

6 ; returns to Egj pt, 62. 
Woolwich tubes, superiority of, 236. 
Wreck, recovery of a, 87 ; of six ves- 
sels in the sudd, 461. 

Zafteer, favourite horse, death of, 391 . 

Zanzibar, native trade with, 265 ; 
opening of communication between 
Fatiko and, 448. 

Zareebas (or kraals), description of 
Bari, 116; artfully ctmcealed by 
high grass, 159 ; troops protected 
by, 160 ; owners of, also farmers, 
196. 

Zinc boat, a portable, 249. 



BUNGAY: CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS. 



Bedford Street, Strand, London, W.C. 
May, 1885. 

Macmillan 6- Co:s Catalogue of Works in the Depart- 
ments of History, BiograpJiy, Travels, Critical ajid 
Literary Essays, Politics, Political and Social Econo?ny, 
Law, etc, ; and Works conjiected with Language. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, &c. 

ADDISON.— ESSAYS OF JOSEPH ADDISON. Chosen and edited by John 
Richard Green, M.A., LL.D., late Honorary Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. 
i8mo. 4^. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.) 

ALBEMARLE.— FIFTY YEARS OF MY LIFE. By George Thomas, 
Earl of Albemarle. With Steel Portrait of the First Earl of Albemarle, engraved 
by Jeens. Third and Cheaper Edition. Crov/n 8vo. 7^. (^d, 

ALFRED THE GREAT.— By Thomas Hughes, Q.C. Crown 8vo. 6^. 
(Biographical Series.) 

APPLETON.— A NILE JOURNAL. By T. G. Appleton. Illustrated by 
Eugene Benson. Crown 8vo. 6j. 

ARNOLD (MATTHEW.)— Works by Matthew Arnold, D.C.L. 
ESSAYS IN CRITICISM. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown Svo. 
95. 

HIGHER SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES IN GERMANY. Second 

Edition. Crown 8vo. 6^. 
THE POPULAR EDUCATION OF FRANCE. With Notices of that of 

Holland and Switzerland. Demy 8vo. lo^. &d. 

ARNOLD (W. T.)— THE ROMAN SYSTEM OF PROVINCIAL AD- 
MINISTRATION TO THE ACCESSION OF CONSTANTINE THE 
GREAT. Being the Arnold Prize Essay for 1879. By W. T. Arnold, B.A. 
Crown 8vo. 6j. 

ART. — THE YEAR'S ART: A concise Epitome of all Matters relating to the 
Arts of Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture, which have occurred during the 
Year 1B80, together with Information respecting the Events of the Yea 1881. 
Compiled by Marcus B. Huish. Crown Svo. 2^. 6d. 
THE SAME, 1S79— 1880. Crown Svo. 2^. &d. 

ARTEVELDE.— JAMES AND PHILIP VAN ARTEVELDE. By W. J. 
Ashley, B. A., late Scholar of Balllol College, Oxford. Being the Lothian Prize 
Essay for 1882. Crown Svo. 6j. 

ATKINSON.— AN ART TOUR TO NORTHERN CAPITALS OF 
EUROPE, including Descriptions of the Towns, the Museums, and other Art 
Treasures of Copenhagen, Christiana, Stockholm, Abo, Helsingfors, Wiborg, St. 
Petersburg, Moscow, and Kief. By J. Beavington Atkinson. Svo. i2jr. 

BAILEY.— THE SUCCESSION TO THE ENGLISH CROWN. A His- 
torical Sketch. By A. Bailey, M.A., Barrister-at-Law. Crown Svo. js. 6d. 
5.85, 10,000. ^ 



2 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



BAKER (SIR SAMUEL W.)— Works by Sir Samuel Baker, Pacha, 

M.A., F.R.S., F.R.G S. :— 
CYPRUS AS I SAW IT IN 1879. With Frontispiece. 8vo. 72s. 6d. 
ISMAILIA: A Narrative of the Expedition to Central Africa for the Suppression 

of the Slave Trade, organised by Ismail, Khedive of Egypt. With Portraits, 

Map, and numerous Illustrations. New Edition. Crovi^n S'vo. 6s. 
THE ALBERT N'YANZA, Great Basin of the Nile, and Exploration of the Nik 

Sources. With Maps and Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
THE NILE TRIBUTARIES OF ABYSSINIA, and the Sword Hunters of the 

Hamran Arabs. With Maps and Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
THE EGYPTIAN QUESTION. Being Letters to the Times and the Pall 

Blall Gazette. With Map. Demy 8vo. 2^. 

BANCROFT.— THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
AMERICA, FROM THE DISCOVERY OF THE CONTINENT. By 
George Bancroft. New and thoroughly Revised Edition. Six Vols. Crown 
8vo. 54^. 

BARKER (LADY).— Works by Lady Barker. 

A YEAR'S HOUSEKEEPING IN SOUTH AFRICA. By Lady Barker. 
With Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d. 
STATION LIFE IN NEW ZEALAND. New Edition. Crown Svo. 35. 6d. 
LETTERS TO GUY. Crown Bvo. 5^- 

BATH.— OBSERVATIONS ON BULGARIAN AFFAIRS. By the Mar- 
quis OF B.\TH. Crown Svo. 35. 6d. 

BEESLY.- STORIES FROM THE HISTORY OF ROME. By Mrs. 
Beesly. Extra fcap. Svo. is. 6d. 

BECKER.— DISTURBED IRELAND, being the Letters Writteii during the 
Winter of 1880 — 1881. By Bernard H. Becker. Special Commissioner of The 
Daily Neius. With Route Maps. Crown Svo. 6s. 

BERLIOZ, HECTOR, AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF, Member of the 
Institute of France from 1S03-1865 ; comprising his Travels in Italy, Germany, 
Russia, and England. Translated entire from the second Paris Edition by 
Rachel (Scott Russell; Holmes and Eleanor Holmes. 2 vols. Crown Bvo. 

SIS'. 

BERNARD (ST.)— the LIFE AND TIMES OF ST. BERNARD, 
Abbot of Clairvaux. By J. C. MoRisoN, M.A. New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. 
(Biographical Series.) 

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES, 1852— 1875. By Harriet Mar- 
ti. veau. With four Additional Sketches, and Autobiographical Sketch. Fifth 
Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. (Biographical Series.) 

BISMARCK— IN THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR. An Authorized Trans- 
lation from the German of Dr. Moritz Busch. Two Vols. Crown Svo. iSj. 

BISMARCK —OUR CHANCELLOR. Sketches for a Historical Picture 
by Dr. Moritz Busch. Translated from the German by William Beatty- 
KiNGSTON, Author of " William I., German Emperor," *• The Battle of Berlin, 
Sec. 2 vols. Ciown Svo. \Zs. 

BLACKBURNE.— BIOGRAPHY OF THE RIGHT HON. FRANCIS 
BLACKBURNE, Late Lord Chancellor of Ireland. Chiefly in connection with 
his Public and Political Career. By his Son, Edward Blackburne, Q.C. 
With Portrait engraved by Jeens. Svo. 12^. 

BLAKE — LIFE OF WILLIAM BLAKE. With Selections from his Poems 
and other Writings. Illustrated from Blake's own Works. By Alexander 
Gilchrist. A new and Enlarged Edition, with additional Letters, and a 
Memoir of the Author. Printed on hand-made paper, the Illustrations on India 
paper, and mounted in the text. 2 vols. Cloth elegant, gilt, with Designs after 
Blake by Fkeuukick J. Shields. Medium Svo. £2 2s. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



3 



BLANDFORD (W. T.)— GEOLOGY AND; ZOOLOGY OF ABYS- 
SINIA. By W. T. Blandford. 8vo. 21s. 

BOLEYN, ANNE : a Chapter of English History, 1527-1536. By Paul 
Friedmann, 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 28^. 

BOUGHTON— ABBEY.— SKETCHING RAMBLES IN HOLLAND. 
By G. H. BouGHTON, A.R.A., and E. A. Abbey. With numerous Illustrations. 
Fcap. 4to. 21^. 

BRIM LEY.— ESSAYS. By the late George Brimley, M.A., Librarian of 
Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A., Fellow and 
Tutor of Trinity College, Cambridge. New Edition. Globe 8vo. ss. 
Contents. — Tennyson's Poems— Wordsworth's Poems — Poetry and Criticism — 
Carlyle's Life of Sterling — " Esmond " — " Westward Ho 1 "— W^ilson's "Noctes 
Ambrosianse"— Comte's " Positive Philosophy," &c. 

BRONTE.— CHARLOTTE BRONTt:. A Monograph. By T. Wemyss Reid. 
With Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. (Biographical Series.) 

BROOK.— FRENCH HISTORY FOR ENGLISH CHILDREN. BylSARAH 
Brook. With Coloured Maps. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

BROOKE.— THE RAJA OF SARAWAK : an Account of Sir James Brooke, 
K.C.B., LL.D. Given chiefly through Letters or Journals. By Ger«I'KUDE L. 
Jacob. With Portrait and Maps. Two Vols. 8vo. 25^. 

BRYCE. — Works by James Bryce, M.P., D.C.L., Regius Professor of Civil 
Law, Oxford : — 

THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE. Seventh Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 
Crown 8vo. js. 6d. 

TRANSCAUCASIA AND ARARAT: being notes of a Vacation Tour in the 
Autumn of 1876. With an Illustration and Map. Third Edition. Crown 
8vo. 9^. 

BURGOYNE.— POLITICAL AND MILITARY EPISODES DURING 
THE FIRST HALF OF THE REIGN OF GEORGE III. Derived from the 
Life and Correspondence of the Right Hon. J. Burgoyne, Lieut. -General in his 
Majesty's Army, and M.P. for Preston. By E. B. de Fonblanque. With 
Portrait, Heliotype Plate, and Maps. 8vo. x6s. 

BURKE.— LETTERS, TRACTS, AND SPEECHES ON IRISH 
AFFAIRS. _ By Edmund Burke. Arranged and Edited by Matthew 
Arnold. With a Preface, Crown 8vo. 6s. 

BUSCH.— BISMARCK IN THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR, 1870-1871. 
Authorised Translation from the German of Dr. Moritz Busch. 2 vols. Crown 
8vo. i8^. 

OUR CHANCELLOR. Sketches for a Historical Picture. By Moritz 
Busch. Translated from the Geriiian by William Beatty-Kingston, Author 
of "WiUiam I., German Emperor,"' "The Battle of Berlin," &c. 2 vols. 
Crown 8vo. 185. 

CAMBRIDGE.— MEMORIALS OF CAMBRIDGE. Greatly Enlarged and 
partly Rewritten (1851—66), By Charles Henry Cooper, F.S.A. With 
Seventy-four Views of the Colleges, Churches, and other Public Buildings of the 
University and Town, engraved on steel by J. Le Keux, together with about 
Forty-five of those engraved on Copper by Storer, and a few Lithographs, with 
Twenty additional Etchings on Copper by Robert Farren. 8vo. 3 vols. £¦?, "^s. 
Also a Large Paper Edition. The Engravings and Etchings, Proofs on India 
Paper. 3 vols. 4to. half-morocco, £10 \os. Fifty copies of the Etchings, by 
R. Farren, from the "Memorials of Cambridge," proofs signed in portfolio. 

CAMERON,— OUR FUTURE HIGHWAY. By V. Lovett Cameron, 
C.B., Commander, R.N. With Illustrations. 2 vols. Crown Bvo. 2I^. 

a 2 



4 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



CAMPBELL.— LOG-LETTERS FROM THE "CHALLENGER" By 
8vo!'°S^°''''^ Campbell. With Map. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 

CAMPBELL— MY CIRCULAR NOTES; Extracts from Journals ; Letters 
sent Home ; Geological and other Notes, written while Travelling Westwards 
aTh J^f - i?"^"^' V"Iy 6th, 1S74, to July 6th, 1875. By J. F. Campbell, 
Author of -Frost and Fire." Cheaper Issue. Crown 8 vo. 6s. 

CAMPBELL,— TURKS AND GREEKS. Notes of a recent Excursion. 
By the Hon. Dudley Campbell, M.A. With Coloured Map. Crown 8vo. 
ss. 6d. ^ 

CARPENTER.— THE LIFE AND WORK OF MARY CARPENTER. 
By J. EsTLiN Carpenter, M.A. With Steel Portrait. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
(Biographical Series.) 

CARR (J. COMYNS CARR).— PAPERS ON ART. By J. Co.my.n-s 
Carr. Extra Crown 8vo. 2,s. 6d. 

CARSTARES.— WILLIAM CARSTARES: a Character and Career of the 
Revolutionary Epoch (1649— 1715). By Robert Story, Minister of Rosneath. 
8vo. 1 2 J. 

CASSBL.— MANUAL OF JEVvISH HISTORY AND LITERATURE : 
preceded by a Brief Summary of Bible History, by Dr. D. Cassel. Translated 
by Mrs. Henry Lucas. Fcap. 8vo. ¦zs. 6d. 

CAUCASUS, NOTES ON THE. By Wanderer. 8vo. 9^. 

CHALLENGER REPORT ON THE SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF 

THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. "CHALLENGER," DURING THE YEARS 
1873-76. Under the command of Captain Sir George Nare?, R.N., F.R.S., 
and Captain Frank Turle Thomson, R.N. Prepared under the Superin- 
tendence of Sir C. Wyville Thomson, Knt., F. R.S . &c., and nov,' of John 
Murray, F.R.S. E., one of the Naturalists of the E>q)edition. With Illustrations. 
Published by order of Her Majesty's Goveriniiciit. 

Volume I. Zoolcg^'. Royal, 375. 6d. Or 
Part I. Report on the Brachiopoda, 2^. ^d. 
II. Report on the Pennatr.lida, s,s. 

III. Report on the Ostracoda, 155-. 

IV. Report on the Bcnes cf Cetacca, is. 

V. The Development of the Green Turtle, -js. 6d, 
VI. Report on the Shore Fishes, xos. 
Volume II. Zoology. 50^. Or 
Part VII. Report on the^Corals. 15^. 
VIII. Report on the Birds, 35^. 
Volume III. Zoology. 505. Or 
Part IX. Report on the Echinoidca, 36^. 
X. Report on the Pycnogonida, 141. 
Volume IV. Zoology. 50.?. Or 
Part XI. Report on the Anatomy of the Tubinare*;, 6$. 
XII. Report on the Deep-.sca Medusai, 10s. 
XIII. Report on the Hcldthurioldca (Part I.), 245. 
Volume V. Zoology. 50J. Or 
Part XIV. Report on the Ojihiuroidea. 

XV. Some p. ints in the Anatomy of the Thylasine, Cuscu?, and Phascrgale, 
with an account of the Comparative Anatomy of the Intrinsic Muscles 
and Nerves of the Mammalian Pes. 
Volume VI. Zoology. 30^. 
Part XVI. Report ( n the Actiniaria, 125. 
XVII. Report on theTunicata, soj. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



5 



CHALLENGE '^—continued. 

Volume VII. Zoology, -^os. Or 
Part XVIII. Report on the Anatomy of the Spheniscidae, 13^. &d. 
XIX. Report on the Pelagic Hemiptera, 3^. 6d. 

XX. Report on the Kydroida (f.i st part). 1 lumularidse, <^s. 
XXI. Report on the Spec.mens of the Genus Orbitolites, 45. 
Volume VIII. Zoology. 405-. Or 
Part XXIII. Report on the Copepoda, 245. 
XXIV. Reports on the Calcarea, bs. 
XXV. Report on the Cerripedia, Systematic Part, xos. 
PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY. Volume I. 21J. Or 
Part I. Report on Composition of Ocean Water, qs. 6d. 
II. Report on Specific Gravity of Ocean Water, 3^. 6d, 
III. Report on the Temperature of Ocean Water, 8j-. 6d. 
NARRATIVE, Volume II. Royal. 30^. Or 
Magnetical and Meteorological Observations. 25^. 

Appendix A. Report on the Pressure Errors of the " Challenger " Thermometers, 
Appendix B. Report cn the Petrology of St. Paul's Rocks. 2s. 6d. 

CHATTERTON : a BIOGRAPHICAE STUDY. By Daniel Wilson, 
LL.D., Professor of Elistory and English Literature in University College, 
Toronto Crov/n 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

CHATTERTON : a STORY OF THE YEAR 1770. By Professor Masson, 
LL.D. Crown 8vo. 5J. 

CICERO.— THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF MARCUS TULLIUS 
CICERO: being a New Translation of the Letters included in Mr. Watson's 
Selection. With Historical and Critical Notes, by Rev. G. E. Jeans, M.A., 
Fellow of Hertford College. Oxford, Assistant-Master in Haileybury College, 
8vo. 10s. 6d. 

CLARK —MEMORIALS FROM JOURNALS AND LETTERS OF 
SAMUEL CLARK, M.A., formerly Principal of the National Society's Train- 
ing College, Battersea. Edited with Introduction by his Wife. With Portrait. 
Crown Bvo. 7^. 6d. 

CLASSICAL WRITERS.— Edited by John Richard Green. Fcap. 
Bvo. Price t.s. 6d. each. 
EURIPIDES. By Professor Mahaffy. 
MILTON. By the Rev. Stopford A. Brooke. 
LIVY. By the Rev. W. W. Capes, M.A. 
VERGIL. By Professor Nettleship, M.A. 
SOPHOCLES. By Professor L. Campbell, M.A. 
DEMOSTHENES. By Professor S. H. Butcher, M.A. 
TACITUS. By Rev. A. J. Church, M A., and W. J. Brodribb, M.A. 
Other Vohmies to follow. 

CLIFFORD (W. K.)— LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Edited by Leslie 
Stephen and Frederick Pollock, with Introduction by F. Pollock. Two 
Portraits. 2 vols. 8vo. 25^. 

COMBE.— THE LIFE OF GEORGE COMBE, Author of "The Constitution 
of Man." By Charles Gibbon. With Three Portraits engraved by Jeens. 
Two Vols. 8vo. 

COOPER.— ATHENE CANTABRIGIENSES. By Charles Henry 
Cooper, F.S.A., and Thompson Cooper, F.S.A. Vol. I. Bvo., 1500—1585, 185.; 
Vol. II., 1586-1609, i8j. 



6 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



CORNWALL, AN UNSENTIMENTAL JOURNEY 

THROUGH, By the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman." With numerous 
Illustrations by C. Napier He.my. Medium 4to. 12s. 6d. 

CO UES.— NORTH AMERICAN BIRDS, KEY TO. Containing a Concise 
Account of every Species of Living and Fossil Bird at present known from the 
Continent north of the Mexican and United States Boundary, inclusive of 
Greenland. _ Second Edition, revised to date, and entirely rewritten. With 
which are incorporated General Ornithology, an OutUne of the Structure 
and Classification of Birds; and Field Ornithology, a Manual of Collecting, 
Preparing, and Preserving Birds. By Elliott Coues, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., 
Member of the National Academy of Science, &;c. &c. Profusely Illustrated. 
Demy 8vo. £2 2s. 

COX (G. V,)— RECOLLECTIONS OF OXFORD. By G. V. Cox, MA.. 
New College, late Esquire Bedel and Coroner in the University of O.xford. 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6^. 

CUNYNGHAME (SIR A. T.)— my COMMAND IN SOUTH 

AFRICA, 1874 — 1878. Comprising Experiences of Travel in the Colonies of 
South Africa and the Independent States. By Sir Arthur Thurlow Cunvng- 
h.\.me, G.C.B., then Lieutenant-Governor and' Commander of the Forces in South 
Africa. Third Edition. 8vo. 12^. 6d. 

*' DAILY NEWS."— THE DAILY NEWS' CORRESPONDENCE of the 
War between Russia and Turkey, to the fall of Kars. Including the letters of 
Mr. Archibald Forbes, Mr. J. E. McGahan, and other Special Correspondents 
in Europe and Asia. Second Edition, Enlarged. Cheaper Edition. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 

FROM THE FALL OF KARS TO THE CONCLUSION OF PEACE. 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

DARWIN.— CHARLES DARV/IN: MEMORIAL NOTICES RE- 
PRINTED FROM "NATURE." By Professor Huxley, F.R.S. ; G. J. 
Romanes, F.R.S. ; Archibald Geikif, F.R.S ; and W. T. Thiselton Dyer. 
F.R.S. With a Portrait engraved by C. H. Jeens. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d. 

Nature Scries. 

DAVIDSON.— THE LIFE OF A SCOTTISH PROBATIONER; being a 
Memoir of Thomas Davidson, with his Poems and Letters. By James Brown. 
lilinister of St. James's Street Church, Paisley. Second Edition, revised and 
enlarged, with Portrait. Crown 8vo. 7J. 6d. 

DAWSON AUSTRALIAN ABORIGINES. The Language and Customs 

of Several Tribes of Aborigines in the Western District cf Victoria, Australia. 
By Ja.mes Dawson. Small 4to. 14^. 

DEAK.— FRANCIS DEAK, HUNGARIAN STATESMAN: A Memoir. 
With a Preface, by the Right Hon. M. E. Grant Duff, M.P. With Por. 
trait. Bvo. 12J. 6d. 

DEAS. — THE RIVER CLYDE. An Historical Description of the Rise and 
Progress of the Harbour of Glasgow, and of the Improvement of the River 
frorn Glasgow to Port Glasgow. By J. Deas, M. Inst. C.E. 8vo. xos. 6d. 

DELANE.— LIFE AND LETTERS OF JOHN T. DELANE, late Editor 
of the Times. By Sir George W. Dasent, D.C.L. 8vo. [In the Press. 

DENISON.— A HISTORY OF CAVALRY FROM THE EARLIEST 
TIMES. With Lessons for the Future. By Lieut. -Colonel George Denison, 
Commanding the Governor-General's Body Guard, Canada, Author of " Modern 
Cavalry." With M.aps and Plans. 8vo. i8j. 

DICKENS'^ DICTIONARY OF PARIS, 1885. -(Fourth Year.) An 

Unconventional Handbook. W>th Maps, Plans. &c. i8mo. Paper Cover, is. 
Cloth, IS. 6d. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF LONDON, 1884.— (Sixth 

Year.) An Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. i8mo. Paper 
Cover, i^. Cloth, is. 6d. 

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE THAMES, 1885.— An 

Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. Paper Cover, i5. Cloth, 

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITY 

OF OXFORD. i8mo. paper cover. \s. 
DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CAMBRIDGE. i8mo paper cover, rs. 

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE UNIVERSITIES 

OF OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE. i8mo. cloth. 2j. 6./, 

DICKENS'S CONTINENTAL A.B.C. RAILWAY GUIDE. 

Published on the ist of each Month. i8mo. xs. 

DILKE.— GREATER BRITAIN. A Record of Travel in English-speaking 
Countries during 1866—67. (America, AustraUa, India.) By the Right Hon. 
Sir Charles Wentworth DiLKE, M. P. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6j. 

DILETTANTI SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS. lONA, ANTI- 
QUITIES OF. Vols. I. II. and III. I'z 2s. each, or £5 s-s: the set. 

PENROSE.— AN INVESTIGATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF ATHE- 
NIAN ARCHITECTURE ; or, The Results of a recent Survey conducted 
chiefly with reference to the Optical refinements exhibited in the construction of 
the Ancient Buildings at Athens. By Fkancis Ckanmer Penrose, Archt., 
M.A., &c. Illustrated by numerous En^rravings. /^y js. 

SPECIMENS OF ANCIENT SCULPTURE Egyptian, Etruscan, Greek, 
and Roman. Selected from different Collections in Great Britain by the 
Society of Dilettanti. Vol.11. £s S^- 

ANTIQUITIES OF IONIA. Part IV. Folio, half-morocco. £2 ^3s. 6d. 

DOLET. — ETIENNE DOLET: the Martyr of the Renaissance. A Biography. 
With a Biographical Appendix, containing a Descriptive Catal:igue of the Books 
written, printed, or edited by Dolet. By Richard Copley Christie, Lincoln 
College, Oxford, Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester. Willi Illustrations. 
8vo. i8j. 

DOYLE.— HISTORY OF AMERICA. By J. A. Doyle. With Maps. iSmo. 
45. 6d. \Historical Course. 

DRUMMOND OF HAWTHORNDEN : THE STORY OF HIS 

LIFE AND WRITINGS. By Professor Masson. With Portrait and Vignette 
engraved by C. H. Jeens. Crown 8vo. loj. 6d. 

DUFF.— Works by the Right Hon. M. E. Grant Duff. 
NOTES OF AN INDIAN JOURNEY. With Map. 8vo. lo^. ed. 
MISCELLANIES, POLITICAL AND LITERARY. 8vo. lo^. 6d. 

EADIE. — LIFE OF JOHN EADIE, D.D., LL.D. By James Brown, D.D., 
Author of " The Life of a Scottish Probationer." With Portrait. Second Edi- 
tion. Crown 8vo. 'js. 6d. 

EGYPT.— RECENSEMENT GENERAL DE L'EGYPTE. 15 Gamad 
Akhar 1299. 3 Mai, 1882. Direction du Recensement ministere de I'lnterieur. 
Tome premier. Royal 4to. £'2 -zs. 

ELLIOTT.— LIFE OF HENRY VENN ELLIOTT, of Brighton. By 
JosiAH Bateman, M.A. With Portrait, engraved by Jeens. Third and 
Cheaper Edition. Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

ELZE.— ESSAYS ON SHAKESPEARE. By Dr. Karl Elze. Translated 
with the Author's sanction by L. Dora Schmitz. Svo. 12.?. 



8 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



EMERSON. —-THE COLLECTED WORKS OF RALPH WALDO 
EMERSON. (Uniform with the Eversley Edition of Charles Kingsley's 
Novels.) Globe 8vo. Price ^s. each volume. 



1. MISCELLANIES. With an In- 

ductory Essay by John Morley, 

2. ESSAYS. 

3. POEMS. 



4. ENGLISH TRAITS ; and REPRE- 

SENTATIVE MEN. 

5. CONDUCT OF LIFE ; and SO- 

CIETY and SOLITUDE. 

6. LETTERS ; AND SOCIAL AIMS, 

&c. 



ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE, THE. Profusely 

Illustrated. Published Monthly. Number I., October 1883. Price Sixpence. 
Yearly Volume. 1883-1884, consisting of 792 closely-printed pages, and containing 
428 Woodcut Illustrations of various sizes. Bound in extra cloth, coloured 
edges. Royal 8vo. 7^. 6d. Cloth Covers for binding Volumes, i^. 6d. each. 

ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE. PROOF IM- 
PRESSIONS OF ENGRAVINGS ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED IN 
"THE ENGLISH ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE," 1884. In Portfolio. 
4to. 21S. 

ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.— Edited by John Mori.ev. 

A Series of Short Books to tell people what is best worth knowing as to the Life, 
Character, and Works of some of the great English Writers. In Crown 8vo. 
price 2S. 6d. each. 

L DR. JOHNSON. By Leslie Stephen. 

II. SIR WALTER SCOTT. By R. H. Hutton. 

III. GIBBON. By J. Cotter Morison. 

IV. SHELLEY. By J. A. Symoxds. 

V. HUME. By Professor Huxley, P.R.S. 

VI. GOLDSMITH. By William Black. 
Vn. DEFOE. By W. Minto. 

VIII. BURNS. By Principal Shairp. 

IX. SPENSER. By the Very Rev. the Dean of St. Paul's. 

X. THACKERAY. By Anthony Trolloi'e. 

XI. BURKE. By John Morley. 

XII. MILTON. By Mark Pattison. 
XTIL HAWTHORNE. By Henry James. 

XIV. SOUTHEY. Ey Professor Dowden. 

XV. BUNYAN. By J. A. Fkoude. 

XVI. CHAUCER. By Professor A. W. Ward. 

XVII. COWPER. By Goldwin Smith. 

XVIII. POPE. By Leslie Stephen. 

XIX. BYRON. By Professor NiCHOL. 

XX. LOCKE. By Professor Fowler. 

XXI. WORDSWORTH. By F. W. H. Myers. 

XXII. DRYDEN. By G. Saintsbury. 

XXIII. LANDOR. By Professor Sidney Colvin. 

XXIV. DE QUINCEY. By Professor Masson. 

XXV. CHARLES LAMB. By Rev. Alfred Ainger. 

XXVI. BENTLEY. By Professor R. C. Jerb. 

XXVII. DICKENS. By Professor A. W. Ward. 
XXVni. GRAY. By Edmund Gosse. 

XXIX. SWIFT. Ey Leslie Stephen. 

XXX. STERNE. P.y H. D. Traill. 

XXXI. MACAULAY. By J. Cotter Morison. 
XXXIL FIELDING. By Austin Dobson. 
XXXIII. SHERIDAN. By Mrs. Oliihant. 



-HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



ENGLISH MEN OF J^ETTKRS—conHnued. 

XXXIV. ADDISON. By W. J. Courthope. 

XXXV. BACON. By the Very Rev. the Dean OF St. Paul's. 

XXXVI. COLERIDGE. By H. D. Traill. 

/« Preparation : — 
ADAM SMITH. By Leonard H. Courtney, M.P. 
BERKELEY. By Professor Huxley. 
SIR PHILIP SIDNEY. By J. A. Symonds. 

Other Volumes to follow. 

ENGLISH POETS: SELECTIONS, with Critical Introductions by various 
Writers, and a General Introduction by Matthew Arnold, Edited by T. H. 
Ward, M.A., late Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford. 4 vols. Crown 8vo. 
7*. 6d. each. 

Vol. I. CHAUCER to DONNE. 

Vol. II. BEN JONSON to DRYDEN. 

Vol. III. ADDISON to BLAKE. 

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH to ROSSETTI. 



ENGLISH STATESMEN.— Under the above title Messrs. Macmillan 

and Co. beg to announce a series of short biographies, not designed to be a 
complete roll of famous statesmen, but to present in historic order the lives an 1 
work of those leading actors in our affairs who by their direct influence have left 
an abiding mark on the policy, the institutions, and the position of Great Britain 
among states. 

The following list of subjects is the result of careful selection. The great move- 
ments of national history are made to follow one another in a connected course, 
and the series is intended to form a coiitinu jus narrative of English freedom, 
order, and power. 

WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR. 
HENRY II. 
EDWARD I. 
HENRY VII. 
WOLSEY. 
ELIZABETH. 



OLIVER CROMWELL. 

WILLIAM in. 

WALPOLE. 

CHATHAM, 

PITT. 

PEEL. 



MR. FREDERIC HARRISON. 
MR. H. D. TRAILL, 
MR. LESLIE STEPHEN, 

MR. JOHN MORLEY. 



Among the writers will be: — 
MR. EDWARD A. FREEMAN, 
MR. FREDERICK POLLOCK, 
MR. J. COTTER MORISON, 
PROF. M. CREIGHTON, 
THE DEAN OF ST. PAUL'S, 

ETON COLLEGE, HISTORY OF. By H. C. Maxwell Lvtk, 
M.A. With numerous Illustrations by Professor Delamotte, Coloured Plates, 
and a Steel Portrait of the Founder, engraved by C. H. Jeens. New and 
Cheaper Issue, with Corrections. Medium 8vo. Cloth elegant. 21^. 

EUROPEAN HISTORY, Narrated in a Series of Historical Selections 
from the best Authorities. Edited and arranged by E. M. Sewell. and C. M. 
YoNGE. First Series, Crown 8vo. 6^. ; Second Series, 1088-1228. Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 6j, 

FARADAY.— MICHAEL FARADAY. By J. H. Gladstone, Ph.D., 
F.R.S. New Edition, with Portrait engraved by Jeens from a photograph by 
J. Watkins. Crown 8vo. \s. 6d. 
PORTRAIT. Artist's Proof. 5^- 

FENTON. — A HISTORY OF TASMANIA. From its Discovery in 164a to 
the Present Time. By James Fenton. With Map of the Island, and 
Portraits of Aborigines in Chronio-lithography. 8vo. 16s. 



10 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



FISKE.— EXCURSIONS OF AN EVOLUTIONIST. By Joh>j Fiske. 
IM.A., LL.B., formerly Lecturer on Philosophy at Harvard Universiiy. Crown 
8vo. 7J. ()d. 

FISON AND HOWITT.— KAMILAROI AND KURNAI GROUP. 

Marriage and Relationship, and Marriage by Elopement, drawn chiefly from 
the usage of the AustraUan Aborigines. Also THE KURNAI TRIBE, their 
Customs in Peace and War. By Lorimer Fison, ]\I.A., and A. W. Howitt, 
F.G.S., with an Introduction by Lewis H. Morgan, LL.D., Author of " System 
of Consanguinity," " Ancient Society," &c. Demy 8vo. 15^. 

FORBES.— LIFE A_ND LETTERS OF JAMES DAVID FORBES, F.R.S., 
late Principal of the United College in the University of St. Andrews. By 
J. C. Shairp, LL.D., Principal of the United College in the University of St. 
Andrews ; P. G. Tait, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University 
of Edinburgh ; and A. Adams-Reilly, F.R.G.S. With Portraits, Map, and 
Illustrations. 8vo. i^s. 

FRAMJI.— HISTORY OF THE PARSIS: Including their Manners, 
Customs, Religion, and Present Position. ByDo=;ABHAi Framji Karaka, 
Presidency Magistrate and Chairman of Her Majesty's Bench of Justices, 
Bombay, Fellow of the Bombay University, Member Bombay Branch of the 
Royal Asiatic Society, &c. 2 vols. Medium Svo. With Illustrations. 365. 

FRANCIS OF ASSISI. By Mrs. Oliphant. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 

6s. (Biographical Series.) 

FREEMAN. — Works by Edward A. Freeman, D.CL,, LL.D., Regius 
Professor of Modern History in the University of Oxford : — 

THE OFFICE OF THE HISTORICAL PROFESSOR. An Inaugural 
Lecture, read in the Ivluseum at Oxford, October 15, 1884. Crown 8vo. 2^. 

THE GROWTH OF THE ENGLISH CONSTITUTION FROM THE 
EARLIEST TIMES. Fourth Edition. Crown 8 vo 5^. 

HISTORICAL ESSAYS. Third Edition. Svo. 105. 6d. 

Contents: — I. "The Mythical and Romantic Elements in Early English 
History;" II. " The Continuity of English History ; " III. "The Relations between 
the Crowns of England and Scotland;" IV. "St. Thomas of Canterbury and his 
Biographers; " V. "The Reign of Edward the Third;" VI. "The Holy Roman 
Empire;" VII. "The Franks and the Gauls;" VIII. "The Early Sieges of 
Paris;" IX. " Frederick the First, King of Italy;" X. "The Emperor Frederick 
the Second ;" XI. "Charles the Bold; " XII. " Presidential Government." 

HISTORICAL ESSAYS. Second Series. Second Edition, Enlarged. Svo. 
10S. 6d. 

The principal Essays are :—" Ancient Greece and Mediaeval Italy:" "Mr. 
Gladstone's Homer and the Homeric Ages : " " The Historians of Athens: " " The 
Athenian Democracy : " "Alexander the Great : " " Greece during the MacedoBian 
Period:" " Mommsen's History of Rome:" "Lucius Cornelius Sulla:" "The 
Flavian Caesars." 

HISTORICAL ESSAYS. Third Series. Svo. 12^. 

Contexts: — " First Impressions of Rome." "The Illyrian Emperors and their 
I>and." " Augusta Treverorum." "The Goths of Ravenna." " Race and Lan- 
guage." " The Byzantine Empire." " First Impressions of Athens." "Mediaeval 
and'^Irdern Greece." "The Southern Slaves." "Sicilian Cycles." "The Nor- 
mans at Palermo." 

COMPARATIVE POLITICS.— Lectures at the Royal Institution. To which is 

added the " Unity of History," the Rede Lecture at Cambridge, 1872. Svo. i^s 
THE HISTORY AND CONQUESTS OF THE SARACENS. Six Lectures. 

Third Edition, with New Preface. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d. 
HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL SKETCHES: chiefly Italian. 

With Illustrations by the Author. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d. 
SUBJECT AND NEIGHBOUR LANDS OF VENICE. Being a Companion 

Volume to " Historical and Architectural Sketches." With Illustrations. Crown 

8vo. loj. 6d. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. ii 



FREE MA.^— Continued. 
ENGLISH TOWNS AND DISTRICTS. A Series of Addresses and Essays. 

With Illustrations and Map. 8vo. 145. 
OLD ENGLISH HISTORY. With Five Coloured Maps. New Edition. 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

HISTORY OF THE CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF V/ELLS, as Illustrating 
the History of the Cathedral Churches of the Old Foundation Crown 8vo. 
3^. 6d. 

GENERAL SKETCH OF EUROPEAN HISTORY. Being Vol. I. of a 
Historical Course for Schools, edited by E. A. Fkeeman. New Edition, en- 
larged with Maps, Chronological Table, Index, &c. iBmo. 3J. 6d. 

DISESTABLISHMENT AND DISENDOWMENT. WHAT ARE THEY ? 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. zs. 

GEIKIE.— GEOLOGICAL SKETCHES AT HOME AND ABROAD. By 
Archibald Geikie, LL.D., F.R.S., Director General of the Geological Surveys 
of the United Kingdom. With illustrations. 8vo. los. 6d. 

GALTON. — Works bv Francis Galton, F.R.S. : 

METEOKOGRAPHICA ; or. Methods of Mapping the Weather. Illustrated 

by upwards of 600 Printed and Lithographed Diagrams. 410. 9^. 
HEREDITARY GENIUS : An Inquiry into its Laws and Consequences. 8vo. 

T2S. 

ENGLISH MEN OF SCIENCE: Their Nature and Nurture. 8vo. 8^. (d. 

INQUIRIES INTO HUMAN FACULTY AND ITS DEVELOPiVlENT. 
With Ilkistrations and Coloured and Plain Plates. Demy 8vo. 16s. 

RECORD OF FAMILY FACULTIES. Consisting of Tabular Forms and 
Directions for Entering Data, with an Explanatory Preface. 4to. ¦zs. 6d. 

LIFE HISTORY ALBQM ; Being a Personal Note-book, combining the chief 
advantages of a Diary, Phctograih Album, a Register of Height, Weight, and 
other Anthropometrical Observations, and a Record of Illnesses. Containing 
Tabular Forms, Charts, and Explanations especially designed for popular use. 
Prepared by the direction of the Collective Investigation Committee of the 
British Medical Association, and Edited by Francis Galton, F. R. S., Chair- 
man of the Life History Sub-Committee. 4to, 3^. 6d. Or, with Cards of 
Wools for Testing Colour Vision. 4^. 6d. 

GARDNER.— SAMOS AND SAMIAN COINS. By Percy Gardner, M. A., 
F. S.A. British Museum, Disnay Professor of Archceology in the University of 
Cambridge, and Hon. Foreign Secretary of the Numismatic Society. Demy 
8vo. 75-. 6d. 

GEDDES.— THE PROBLEM OF THE HOMERIC POEMS. By W. D. 
Geddes, LL.D., Professor of Greek In the University of Aberdeen. 8vo. 145-. 

GLADSTONE.— HOMERIC SYNCHRONISM. An Inquiry into the Time 
and Place of Homer. By the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P. Crown 
8vo. 6^. 

GOETHE AND MENDELSSOHN (182I— 183I). Translated from 
the German of Dr. Karl Mendelssohn, Son of the Composer, by M. E. Von 
Gleiin. From the Private Diaries and Home Letters of Mendelssohn, with 
Poems and Letters of Goethe never before printed. Also with two New and 
Original Portraits, Fac-similes, and Appendix of Twenty Letters hitherto 
unpublished. Second Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo. 5^. 

GOETHE. — A LIFE OF GOETHE. By Heinrich Duntzer. Translated by 
T. W. Lyster, Assistant Librarian National Library of Ireland. With Illustra- 
tions. Two vols. Crown 8vo. 21^. 

GOLDS MID.— TELEGRAPH AND TRAVEL. A Narrative of the For- 
mation and Development of Telegraphic Communication between England and 
India, under the orders of Her Majesty's Government, with incidental Notices 
of the Countries traversed by the Lines. By Colonel Sir Frederick Goldsmid, 
C.B., K.C.S.I., late Director of the Government Indo-European Telegraph. 
With numerous Illustrations and Maps. Bvo. 21s. 



12 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



GORDON.— LAST LETTERS FRO^I EGYPT, to which are added Letters 
from the Cape. By Lady Duff Gordon. With a Memoir by her Daughter, 
Mrs. Ross, and Portrait engraved by Jeens. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. gs. 

GORDON (CHARLES GEORGE), a SKETCH. By Reginald 
H. Barne':, Vicar cf Heavitree, and Charles E. Brown, INIajor R.A. With 
Facsimile Letter. Crown 8vo. is. 

GORDON.— REFLECTIONS IN PALESTINE, 1883. By Charles 
George Gordon. Crown 8vo. 35-. 6d. 

GREAT CHRISTIANS OF FRANCE : ST. LOUIS and 
CALVIN. By M. Guizot, Member of the Institute of France. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
(Biographical Series.) 

GREEN.— V/orks by John Richard Green, M.A., LL.D. : — 
THE MAKING OF ENGLAND. With Maps. Demy Svo. i6j. 
THE CONQUEST OF ENGLAND. With Maps. Demy Svo. i8^. 
HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH PEOPLE. Vol. I.— Early England- 
Foreign Kings — The Charter — 'I he ParLament. With 8 Coloured Maps. 8vo. 

16s. Vol. II. — The Monarchy, 1461 — 1540: The Restoration, 1540 — 1603. Svo. 

16s. Vol. III. — Puritan England, 1603 — 1660 ; The Revolution, 1660 — 1688. 

With 4 Maps. 8vo. i6^. Vol. IV. — Ihe Revolution, 1683 — 1760: Modern 

England. 1760 — 1815. With Maps and Index. Svo. \6s. 
A SHORT HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH PEOPLE. With Coloured 

Maps, Genealogical Tables, and Chronological Annals. Crown Svo. 2>s. 6d. 

108th Thousand. 

STRAY STUDIES FROT^I ENGLAND AND ITALY. Crown Svo. 8^. 6./. 
Containing : Lambeth and the Archbishops — The Florence of Dante — Venice and 
Rome — Early History of Oxford — The District Visitor — Capri — Hotels in the 
Clouds— Sketches in Sunshine, &c. 

READINGS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY. Selected and Edited by John 
Richard Green. In Three Parts. Fcap. Svo. xs. 6d. each. Part I. — From 
Hengest to Cressj'. Part. II. — From Cressy to Cromwell. Part III. — From 
Cromwell to Balaklava. 

GREEN (W. S.)— THE HIGH ALPS OF NEW ZEALAND; or, a Trip 
to the Glaciers of the Antipodes, with an Ascent of Mount Cook. By William 
SfOTSWooD Greex, M.A., Member cf the English Alpine Club. With Maps. 
Crown Svo, 7^. 6d. 

GROVE.— A DICTIONARY OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS (a.d. 1450- 
1884). By Eminent Writers, English and Foreign. With Illustrations and 
Woodcuts. Edited by Sir George Grove. D.C.L., Director of the Royal 
College of Music. Svo. Pans I. to XIV., XIX. and XX. 3^. 6d. each. Parts 
XV. and XVI. 7^. Parts XVII. and XVIII. 7^. 
Vols. I., II., and III. Svo. 21^. each. 

Vol. I. A to Impromptu.— Vol. II. Improperia to Plain Song.— Vol. III. Planche 

to Sumer is Icumen In. 
Cloth cases for binding Vols. I., II., and III. i^. each. 

GUEST.— LECTURES ON THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By M. J. 
Guest. With Maps. Crown Svo. 6s. 

GUEST.— ORIGINES CELTICAE(a Fragment) and ether Contributions to 
the History of Bntain. By Edwin Guest. LL.D.. D.C.L., F.R.S.. late 
Master of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. With Maps, Plans, and a 
Portrait engraved on Steel by G. J. Stodart. Two vols. Demy 8vo. 325. 

HAMERTON.— Works by P. G. Hamrrton:— 
ETCHINGS AND ETCHERS. Third Eduion, revised, with Forty-eight new 

Plates. Columbier Svo. 
THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE With a Portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, etched 

by Leoi'oi.d Fi ameng. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d. 
THOUGHTS ABOUT ART. New Edition, revised, with an Introduction, 

Crown Svo. 8*. 6d, 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 13 



HANDEL.— THE LIFE OF GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL. By 
W. S. RocKSTRO, Author of "A History of Music for Young Students." With 
an Introductory Notice by Sir George Grove, D.C.L. With a Portrait. 
Crown 8vo. loj. 6d. 

HARPER.— THE METAPHYSICS OF THE SCHOOL. By Thomas 
Harper, (S.J.) (In 5 vols.) Vols. I. and II. 8vo. i8j. each.— Vol. III., 
Part I. 

HEINE.— A TRIP TO THE BROCKEN. By Heinrich Heine. Translated 

by R. McLiNTOCK. Crown 8vo. 3^. ^d. 

HELLENIC STUDIES— JOURNAL OF. 8vo. Parts L and II., con- 
stituting Vol. I. with 410 Atlas rf Illustrations, 30^. Vol. II., with 4to. 
Atlas of Illustrations, 30J., or in Two Parts, 155. each. Vol. III., Two Parts, with 
4to Atlas of Illustrations, r^s. each. Vol. IV., Two Parts, with 4to. Atlas of 
Illustrations, 155-. each. Vol. V., Two Parts, with Illustrations, iss. each. 
The Journal will be sold at a reduced price to Libraries wishing to subscribe, but 
official application must in each case be made to the Council. Information on this 
point, and upon the conditions of Membership, may be obtained on application to the 
Hon. Secretary, Mr. George Macmillan, 29, Bedford Street, Covent Garden. 

HERODOTOS.— BOOKS L TO III.— THE ANCIENT EMPIRES OF 
THE EAST. Edited, with Notes, Introductions, and Appendices, hy A. H. 
Sayce, M.A.Oxford, Hon. LL.D. Dublin; Deputy-Professor of Comparative 
Philology. Svc i6j. 

HILL. — THE RECORDER OF BIRMINGHAM. A Memoir of Matthew 
Davenport-Hill, with Selections from his Correspondence. By his daughters 
Rosamond and Florence Davenport-Hill. With Portrait engraved by C. 
H. Jeens. 8vo. 165-. 

HILL.— WHAT WE SAW IN AUSTRALIA. By Rosamond and Florence 
Hill. Crown 8vo. lo^. dd. 

HILL (O.)— Works by Octavia Hill 
OUR COMMON LAND, and other Essays. Extra fcap. 8vo. 35. ^d. 
HOMES OF THE LONDON POOR. Sewed. Crown 8vo. i^. 

HODGSON.— MEMOIR OF REV. FRANCIS HODGSON, B.D., Scholar, 
Poet, and Divine. By his son, the Rev. James T. Hodgson, M._A. Containing 
numerous Letters from Lord Byron and others. With Portrait engraved by 
Teens. Two vols. Crown 8vo. 18^-. 

HOLE.— A GENEALOGICAL STEMMA OF THE KINGS OF ENGLAND 
AND FRANCE. By the Rev. C. Hole, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge. 
On Sheet, is. 

A BRIEF BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY. Compiled and Arranged by 
the Rev. Charles Hole, M.A. Second Edition. i8mo. 45. 6d. 

HOOKER AND BALL. — MOROCCO AND THE GREAT ATLAS: 
Journal of a Tour in. By Sir Joseph D. Hooker, K.C.S.I., C.B., F.R.S., 
&c., and John Ball, F.R.S. With an Appendix, including a Sketch of the 
Geology of Morocco, by G. Maw, F.L.S., F.G.S. With Illustrations and Map. 

8V0. 

HOUSE OF LORDS.— FIFTY YEARS OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS. 
Reprint&d from The Pall Mall Gazette. Crown Svo. 2s. 6^/.— POPULAR 
EDITION, zd. 

HOZIER (H. M.)— Works by Captain Henry M. Hozier, late Assistant 

Military Secretary to Lord Napier of Magdala : — 
THE SEVEN WEEKS' WAR; Its Antecedents and Incidents. New and 

Cheaper Edition. With New Preface, Maps, and Plans. Crown 8vo. ds. 
THE INVASIONS OF ENGLAND: a Histoiy of the Past, with Lessons for 

the Future. Two Vols. Svo. 28^. 



14 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGU'E OF WORKS IN 



HUBNER.— A RAMBLE ROUND THE WORLD IN 1871. By M. Le 

Baron Hubner, formerly Ambassador and Minister. Translated by Lady 
Herbert. New and Cheaper Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 

HUGHES. — Works by Thomas Hughes, Q.C, Author of "Tom Brown's 
School Days." 

MEMOIR OF A BROTHER. With Portrait of George Hughes, after Watts, 

Engraved by Jeens. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 5J. 
ALFRED THE GREAT. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

MEMOIR OF DANIEL MACMILLAN. With Portrait aftei Lowes Dickinson, 
Engraved by Jeens. Fifth Thousand. Crown Bvo. 4s. 6^/.- POPULAR 
EDITION. IS. 

RUGBY, TENNESSE. Being some account of the Settlement founded on the 
Cumberland Plateau by the B;ard of Aid to Land Ownership. With a report 
on the Soils of the Plateau by the Hon. F. W. Killeerew, A.M., Ph.D., 
Commissioner for Agriculture for the State of Tenessee. Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d. 

GONE TO TEXAS: Letters from Our Boys. Edited by Thomas Hughes. 
Crown 8vo. 4s. 6.i. 

HUNT.— HISTORY OF ITALY. By the Rev. W. Hunt, M.A. Being the 
Fourth Volume of the Historical Course for Schools. Edited by Edward A. 
Freeman, D.C.L. New Edition, with Coloured Maps. i8mo. 3^. 6d. 

HUTTON.— ESSAYS THEOLOGICAL AND LITERARY. By R. H. 
Hutton, M.A, Cheaper issue. 2 vols. 8vo. i8^. 
Contents of Vol. I. : — The moral significance of Atheism — The Atheistic Ex- 
planation of Religion — Science and Theism — Popular Pantheism — What is Revela- 
tion? — Christian Evidences, Popular and Critical — The Historical Problems of the 
Fourth Gospel— The Incarnation and Principles of Evidence — M. Renan's "Christ " 
— M. Renan's "St. Paul" — The Hard Church — Romanism, Protestantism, and 
Anglicanism. 

Contents of Vol. II. : — Goethe and his Influence— Wordsworth and his Genius 
— Shelley's Poetical Mysticism— Mr. Browning— The Poetry of the Old Testament 
—Arthur Hugh Clough — The Poetry of Matthew Arnold— Tennyson— Nathaniel 
Hawthorne. 

INGLIS (JAMES) («' MAORI ").-WorksbyjAMEslNGLisC' Maori") 
OUR AUSTRALIAN COUSINS. 8vo. 14^. 

SPORT AND WORK ON THE NEPAUL FRONTIER; or, Twelve Years' 
Sporting Reminiscences of an Indigo Planter. By " Maori." With Illustra- 
tions. 8vo. 14^. 

IONIA.— THE ANTIQUITIES OF IONIA, see under Dilettanti Society's 
Publications. 

IRVING.— THE ANNALS OF OUR TIME. A Diurnal of Events, Social 
and Political, Home and Foreign, from the Accession of Queen Victoria to the 
Peace of Versailles. By Joseph Irving. New Edition, revised. 8vo. half- 
bound. 1 8 J. 

ANNALS OF OUR TIME. Supplement. From Feb. 28. 1871, to March 16, 
1874. 8vo. 4^. 6d. ANNALS OF OUR TIME. Second Supplement. From 
March, 1874, to the Occupation of Cyprus. 8vo. 4^. 6d. 

JAMES (Sir W. M.).— THE BRITISH IN INDIA. By the late Right 
Hon. Sir William Milbourne James, Lord Justice of Appeal. Edited by 
his Daughter, Mary J. Salis Schwabe. Demy 8vo. i2j. 6d. 

JAMES. — Works by Hen'ry James: 

FRENCH POETS AND NOVELISTS. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 4s. ed. 

Conte.nts: — Alfred de Musset ; Theophile Gautier ; Baudelaire; Honorc de 
Balzac ; George Sand ; The Two Amperes ; Turgenieff, &c. 

PORTRAITS OF PI-ACES. Crown 8vo. ns. 6d. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



JEBB.— MODERN GREECE. Two Lectures delivered before the Philo- 
sophical Institution of Edinburgh. With papers on " The Progress of Greece," 
and "Byron in Greece." By R. C. Jebb, M.A., LL.D. Edin. Professor of 
Greek in the University of Glasgow. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

JOHNSON'S LIVES OF THE POETS.-The Six Chief Lives 
—Milton, Dryden, Svvift, Addison, Pope, Gray. With Macaulay's "Life of 
Johnson." Edited, with Preface, by Matthew Arnold. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

JONES. — THE LIFE'S WORK IN IRELAND OF A LANDLORD WHO 
TRIED TO . DO HIS DUTY. By W. Bence Jones, of Lisselan. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 

KANT.— THE LIFE OF IMMANUEL KANT. By J. H. Stuckenberg, 

D. D., late Professor in Wittenburg College, Ohio. With Portrait. 8vo. 145. 

KANT— MAX MULLER.— CRITIQUE OF PURE REASON BY 
IMMANUEL KANT. In commejnoration of the Centenary of its first Publica- 
tion. Translated into English by F. Max Muller. With an Historical 
Introduction by Ludwig Noirk. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 32^. 

KEARY.— ANNIE KEARY : a Memoir. By Eliza Keary. With a Portrait. 
Third Thousand. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

KILLEN.— ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY OF IRELAND, from the 
Earliest Date to the Present Time. By W. D. Killen, D.D., President of 
Assembly's College, Belfast, and Professor of Ecclesiastical History. Two Vols. 
8vo. 255. 

KINGSLEY (CHARLES).— Works by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, 
M.A., late Rector of Eversleyand Canon of Westminster. (For other Works by 
the same Author, ^^^^ Theological and Belles Lettres Catalogues) 

AT LAST: A CHRISTMAS in the WEST INDIES. With nearly Fifty 
Illustrations. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

THE ROMAN AND THE TEUTON. A Series of Lectures delivered before 
the University of Cambridge. New and Cheaper Edition, with Preface by 
Professor Max Muller. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

PLAYS AND PURITANS, and other Historical Essays. With Portrait of Sir 
Walter Raleigh. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

In addition to the Essay mentioned in the title, this volume contains other two — 
one on "Sir Walter Raleigh and his Time," and one on Froude's "History of 
England." 

HISTORICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Crown 8vo, 6^. 
SANITARY AND SOCIAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
SCIENTIFIC LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Crown Svo- 6s 
LITERARY AND GENERAL LECTURES. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

KINGSLEY (HENRY).— TALES OF OLD TRAVEL. Re-narrated by 
Henry Kingsley, F.R.G.S. With Eight Illustrations by Huard. Fifth 
Edition. Crown Svo. 55. 

LANG. — CYPRUS: Its History, its Present Resources and Future Prospects. 
By R. Hamilton Lang, late H.M. Consul for the Island of Cyprus. With Two 
Illustrations and Four Maps. 8vo. 14J. 

LAOCOON.— Translated from the Text of Les sing, with Preface and Notes by 
the Right Hon. Sir Robert J. Phillimore, D.C.L. Y/ith Photographs. 8vo. 

X1S. 

LECTURES ON ART. — Delivered in support of the Society for Protection 
of Ancient Buildings. By Regd. Stuart Poole, Professor W B. Richmond, 

E. J. Poyntek, R.A., J. T. Micklethwaite, and William Morris. Cro^vn 
Svo. 45. 6d. 



i6 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



LETHBRIDGE,— A SHORT MANUAL OF THE HISTORY OF 
INDIA, with an account of INDIA AS IT IS. The Soil, Climate, and Pro- 
ductions; the People — their Races, Religions, Public Works, and Industries; 
the Civil Services and Sj'stem of Administration. By Roper Lethbridge, jNI.A., 
CLE., Press Commissioner with the Government of India, late Scholar of Exeter 
College, &c. S:c. With Maps. Crown 8vo. 5s. 

LIECHTENSTEIN.— HOLLAND HOUSE. By Princess Marie Liech- 
tenstein. With Five Steel Engravings by C. H. Jeens, after paintings by 
Watts and other celebrated Artists, and numerous Illustrations drawn by Pro- 
fessor P. H. Delamotte, and engraved on Wood by J. D. Cooper, W. Palmer, 
and Jewitt & Co., about 40 Illustrations by the Woodbury-type process, and 
India Proofs of the Steel Engravings. Two vols. Medium 4to., half morocco 
elegant. 4/. 4^-. 

LLOYD.— THE AGE OF PERICLES. A History of the Arts and Politics of 
Greece from the Persian to the Peloponnesian War. By W. Watkiss Lloyd. 
Two Vols. 8vo. 21S. 

LOFTIE,— A RIDE IN EGYPT FROM SIOOT TO LUXOR, IN 1879; 
with Notes on the Present State and Ancient History of the Nile Valley, and 
some account of the various ways of making the voyage out and home. P>y the 
Rev. W. J. LOFTIE. B.A. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. los. 6if. 

LUBBOCK,— Works by Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P.. D.CL, F.R.S. 
ADDRESSES, POLITICAL AND EDUCATIONAL. 8vo. 8^. 6ci. 
FIFTY YEARS OF SCIENCE. Being the address delivered at York to the 
British Association, August, 1881. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 

MACDONELL.— FRANCE SINCE THE FIRST EMPIRE. By James 
Macdonell. Edited with Preface by his Wife. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

MACARTHUR.— HISTORY OF SCOTLAND. By Margaret Mac 
ARTHUR. Being the Third Volume of the Historical Course for Schools, Edited 
by Edward A. Freeman, D.CL. Second Edition. i8mo. 2s. 

Mclennan.— THE patriarchal theory. Based on Papers of 
the late John Ferguson McLennan. Edited and completed by Donald 
McLennan, of the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law, 8vo. 145. 

MACMILLAN (REV. HUGH).— For other Works by same Author, 
see Theological and Scientific Catalogues. 
HOLIDAYS ON HIGH LANDS or, Rambles and Incidents in search of 
Alpine Plants. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Globe 8vo. 6s. 

MACMILLAN (DANIEL).— MEMOIR OF DANIEL MACMILLAN. 
By Thomas Hughes, Q.C, Author of "Tom Brown's Schooldays," etc. With 
Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, from a Painting by Lowes 
Dickinson: Fifth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 4^- 6.f. -POPULAR EDITION, 
Paper Covers. t.s. 

MACREADY.— MACREADY'S REMINISCENCES AND SELECTIONS 
FROM HIS DIARIES AND LETTERS. Edited by Sir F. Pollock, Bart., 
one of his Executors. With Four Portraits engraved by Jeens. New and 
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 7^. 6d. 

MAHAFFY,— Works by the Rev. J. P. Mahaffy, M.A., Fellow of Trinity 

social' life" "in GREECE FROM HOMER TO MENANDER. Fifth 
Edition, revised and enlarged, with a new chapter on Greek Art. Crown Svo. 

RAMBLES AND STUDIES IN GREECE. With Illustrations. New and 
enlarged Edition, with Map and Illustrations. Crown Svo. lOJ. 6d. 
MARGARY.— THE JOURNEY OF AUGUSTUS RAYMOND MAR- 
GARY FROM SHANGHAE TO BHAMO AND BACK TO MANWYNE. 
From his Journals and Letters, with a brief Biogr.aphical Preface, a concluding 
chapter by Sir Rutherford Alcock, K.CB., and a Steel Portrait engraved by 
Jeens, and Map. Svo. lo^. Cd. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



MARTEL.— MILITARY ITALY. By Charles Martel. With Map. 

8vO. 125'. (id. 

MARTIN.— THE HISTORY OF LLOYD'S, AND OF MARINE IN- 
SURANCE IN GREAT BRITAIN. With an Appendix containing Statistics 
relating to Marine Insurance. By Frederick Martin, Author of "The 
Statesman's Year Book." 8vo. 14J. 

MARTINEAU.— BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES, 1852-75. By Harriet 
Martineau. With Four Additional Sketches, and Autobiographical Sketch. 
Fifth Edition. Crosvn 8vo. 65. (Biographical Series.) 

MASSON (DAVID).— By David Masson, LL.D., Professor of Rhetoric 
and English Literature in the University of Edinburgh. For other Works by 
same Author, see Philosophical and Belles Lettkes Catalogue. 
CHATTERTON : A Story of the Year 1770. Crown 8vo. 5^. 
THE THREE DEVILS: Luther's, Goethe's, and Milton's; and other Essays. 
Crown 8vo. 5^. 

WORDSWORTH, SHELLEY, AND KEATS; and other Essays. Crown 8 vo. 5*. 

MATHEWS.— LIFE OF CHARLES J. MATHEWS, Chiefly Autobio- 
graphical. With Selections from his Correspondence and Speeches. Edited by 
Charles Dickens. Two Vols. 8vo. 25^. 

MAURICE.— LIFE OP FREDERICK DENISON MAURICE. Chiefly 
told in his own Letters. Edited by his Son, Frederick Maurice. With Two 
Portraits. Third Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 36^. 

MAURICE.— THE FRIENDSHIP OF BOOKS; AND OTHER LEC- 
TURES. By the Rev. F. D. Maurice. Edited with Preface, by Thomas 
Hughes, Q.C. Cruwn 8vo. 45. dd. 

MAXWELL.— PROFESSOR CLERK MAXWELL, A LIFE OF. With a 
Selection from his Correspondence and Occasional Writings, and a Sketch of his 
Contributions to Sci-nce. Dy LEWIS CAMPBELL, M.A.. LL.D., Professor rf 
Greek in the University of St. Andrews, and Professor WILLIAM GARNETT.. 
M.A., Principal of Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. New 
Edition, Abridged and Revised. Crown 8vo. 7J. 6d. 

MAYOR (J, E. B.) — Works edited by John E. B. Mayor, M.A., Kennedy 
Professor of Latin at Cambridge : — 
CAMBRIDGE IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. Part 11. Auto- 
biography of Matthew Robinson. Fcap. 8vo. 5^. 6d. 
LIFE OF BISHOP BEDELL. By his Son. Fcap. 8vo. 6d. 

MELBOURNE.— MEMOIRS OF THE RT. HON. WILLIAM, SECOND 
VISCOUNT MELBOURNE. By W. M- Torrens, M.P. With Portrait 
after Sir T. Lawrence. Second Edition. Two Vols. 8vo. 32^. 

MI ALL.— LIFE OF EDWARD MI ALL, formerly M.P. for Rochdale and 
Bradford. By his Son, Arthur ]\Iiall. With a Portrait. 8vo. los. 6d. 

MICHELET.— A SUMMARY OF MODERN HISTORY. Translated 
from the French of M. Michelet, and continued to the present time by M. C. M. 
Simpson. Globe 8vo. ^s. 6d. 

MILLET.— JEAN FRANQOIS MILLET; Peasant and Painter. Trans- 
lated from the French of Alfred Sensier. With numerous Illustrations 
Globe 4to. i6j. 

MILTON.— LIFE OF JOHN MILTON. Narrated in connection with tha 
Political, Ecclesiastical, and Literary History of _ his Time. By David Masson, 
M.A., LL.D., Professor of Rhetoric and English Literature in the University 
of Edinburgh. With Portraits. Vol. 1. 1608—1639. New and Revised Edition. 
8vo. 215. Vol. II. 1638—1643. 8vo. i6j. Vol. III. 1643—1649. 8vo. i8f. 
Vols. IV. and V. 1649— 1660. 32J. Vol. VI. 1660— 1674. With Portrait. 21s. 

[htdex Volume in preparation. 
This work is not only a Biography, but also a continuous Political, Ecclesiastical, 
and Literary History of England through Milton's whole time. 



l8 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS m 



MITFORD (A. B.)-TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B. Mitford 
Second Secretary to the British Le.2:ation in Japan. With upwards of 30 Illus- 
trations, drawn and cut on Wood by Japanese Artists. New and Cheaper 
Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

MURRAY.— ROUND ABOUT FRANCE. By E. C. Grenville Murray. 
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6(f. 

MUSIC— DICTIONARY OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS (a.d. 1450— 
1885). By Eminent Writers. Enghsh and Foreign. Edited by Sir George 
Grove, D.C.L.. Director of the Royal College of Music. Three Vols. 8vo. 
With Illustrations and Woodcuts. Parts I. to XIV.. XIX. and XX v 6d 
each. Parts XV. and XVI., 7s. Parts XVII. and XVIII., 7 j. Vols. I., II.| 
and III. Bvo. 21s. each. 
Vol. I.— A to Impromptu. Vol. II.— Improperia to Plain Song. Vol. III. PIanch€ 

to Sumer is Icumen in. 

MYERS.— ESSAVS BY FREDERIC W. H. MYERS. 2 vols. i. Classical. 
II. Modem. Crown 8vo. 4^. 6d. each. 

NAPOLEON.— THE HISTORY OF NAPOLEON I. By P. Lanfrev. 
A Translation with the sanction of the Author. Four Vols. Bvo. Vols. II. 
and III. price 125. each. Vol. IV. With Index. 6s. 

NEWTON.— ESSAYS ON ART AND ARCHEOLOGY. By Charles 
Tho.mas Newton, C.B.. Ph.D., D.C.L., LL.D., Keeper of Greek and Roman 
Antiquities at the British Museum, &c. 8vo. 12s. 6d. 

NICHOL.— TABLES OF EUROPEAN LITERATURE AND HISTORY, 

a.d. 200^1876. By J. NicHOL, LL.D., Professor of English Language and 
Literature, Glasgow. 4to. 6s. 6d. 
TABLES OF ANCIENT LITERATURE AND HISTORY, b.c. 1500-A.D 
200. By the same Author. 410. 4J. 6d. 

NORDENSKIOLD'S ARCTIC VOYAGES, 1858-79.— with 

Maps and numerous Illustrations. 8vo. \6s. 
VOYAGE OF THE FAC;^. By Adolf Erik Nordekskiold. Translated by 
Alexander Leslie. With numerous Illustrations, Maps, &c. Popular and 
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

OLIPHANT (MRS.).— Works bv Mrs. Oliphant. 
THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE: Dante, Giotto, Savonarola, and their City. 
With numerous Illustrations from drawings by Professor Delamotte. and 
portrait of Savonarola, engraved by Jeens. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 
8vo. \os. 6d. 

THE LITERARY HISTORY OF ENGLAND IN THE END OF THE 
EIGHTEENTH AND BEGINNING OF THE NINETEENTH CEN- 
TURY. New Issue, with a Preface. 3 vols. De.niy 8vo. 21J. 

OLIPHANT.— THE DUKE AND THE SCHOLAR; and other Essays 
By T. L. Ki.N'GTON Oliphant. 8vo. 7^. 6d. 

OTTE.— SCANDINAVIAN HISTORY. By E. C. Otte. With Maps 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 6^. 

OWENS COLLEGE ESSAYS AND ADDRESSES.— By Pro- 
fessors and Lecturers of Owens College, Manchester. Pubhshed in 
Commemoration of the Opening of the New College Buildings, October 7th, 
1873. 8vo. IAS. 

PALGRAVE (R. F. D.)— THE HOUSE OF COMMONS: Illustrations 
of its Hi.tory and Practice. By Reginald F. D. Palgrave, Clerk Assistant 
of the House of Co;nmons. New and Revised Edition. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d. 

PALGRAVE (SIR F.)— HISTORY OF NORMANDY AND OF 
ENGLAND. By Sir Francis Palgrave, Deputy Keeper of Her Majesty's 
Public Records. Completing the His.ory to the Death of William Rufus. 
4 Vols. 8vo. 4/. 45. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 19 



PALGRAVE (W. G.)— a NARRATIVE OF A YEAR'S JOURNEY 
THROUGH CENTRAL AND EASTERN ARABIA, 1862-3. By William 
GiKFORD Palgrave, late of the Eighth Regiment Bjmbay N.I. Sixth Edition. 
With Maps, Plans, and Portrait of Author, engraved on steel by Jeens. Crown 
8vo. 6s. 

ESSAYS ON EASTERN QUESTIONS. By W. Gifford Palgrave. 8vo. 
lo^. 6d. 

DUTCH GUIANA. With Maps and Plans. 8vo. gs. 

PARKMAN.— MONTCALM AND WOLFE. By Francis Parkman. 
With Portraits and Maps. 2 vols. 8vo. 12^. 6d. each, 

PATTE SON.— LIFE AND LETTERS OF JOHN COLERIDGE PAT 
TESON, D.D., Missionary Bishop of the Melanesian Islands. By Charlotte 
M. YoNGE, Author of "The Heir of Redclyfife." With Portraits after 
Richmond and from Photograph, engraved by Jeens. With Map. Fifth 
Edition. Tw^o Vols. Crown Bvo. 12s. 

PATTISON.— MEMOIRS. By Mark Pattison, late Rect:r of Lincoln 
College, Oxford. Crown Svo. 8s. 6d. 

PAYNE. — A HISTORY OF EUROPEAN COLONIES. By E. J. Payne, 
M.A. With Maps. i8mo. 4^.6.-/. {Historical Course /or Schools. 

PERSIA. — EASTERN PERSIA. An Account of the Journeys of the Persian 
Boundary Commission, 1870-1-2. — Vol. I. The Geography, with Narratives by 
Majors St. John, Lovett, and Euan Smith, and an Introduction by Major- 
General_Sir Frederic Goldsmid, C.B., K.C.ST., British Commissioner and 
Arbitrator. With Maps and Illustrations. — Vol. II. The Zoology and Geology. 
By W. T. Blandford, A.R.S.M., F R.S. With Coloured Illustrations. Two 
Vols. Svo. 425-. 

PHEAR.— THE ARYAN VILLAGE IN INDIA AND CEYLON. By Sir 
John B. Phear. Crown Svo. 7^. 6ff. 

POOLE.— A HISTORY OF THE HUGUENOTS OF THE DISPERSION 
AT THE RECALL OF THE EDICT OF NANTES. By Reginald 
Lane Poole. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

PRICHARD.— THE ADMINISTRATION OF INDIA. From 1859 to 
t868. The First Ten Years of Administration under the Crown. By I. T. 
Prichard, Barrister-at-Law. Two Vols. Demy 8vo. With Map. 21J. 

REED (SIR CHAS.).— SIR CHARLES REED. A Memoir by Charles 
E. B. Reed, M.A. Crown Svo. 45-. 6d. 

REMBRANDT.— THE ETCHED WORK OF REMBRANDT. A 
MONOGRAPH, By Francis Seymour Haden. With three Plates. Bvo. 
'js. 6d. 

ROGERS (JAMES E. THOROLD).— HISTORICAL GLEAN- 

INGS:— A Series of Sketches. Montague, Walpole, Adam Smith, Cobbett. 
By Prof. Rogers, M.P. Crcwn Svo. 45. 6d. Second Series. Wiklif, Laud, 
Wilkes, and Home Tooke. Crown Svo. 6s. 

ROSSETTL— DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI : a Record and a Study. By 
William Sharp. With an Illustration after Dante Gabriel Rossetti. Crown 
Svo. ros. 6d. 

ROUTLEDGE.— CHAPTERS IN THE HISTORY OF POPULAR 
PROGRESS IN ENGLAND, chiefly in Relat.on to the Freedom of the 
Press and Trial by Jury, 1660 — 1820. With application to later years. By J. 
Routledge. Svo. i6j. 

RUM FORD. —COUNT RUMFORD'S COMPLETE WORKS, with 
INTemoir, and Notices of his Daughter. By George Ellis. Five Vols. Svo. 
4/. 14*. td, 

b 2 



20 MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF WORKS IN 



RUSSELL.— NEW VIEWS ON IRELAND, OR IRISH LAND 
GRIEVANCES AND REMEDIIiS. By Charles Russell, Q.C, M.P. 
Third Edition. Crown 8vo. zs. 6d. 

SAYCE.— THE ANCIENT EMPIRES OF THE EAST. By A. H. Sayce, 
Deputy-Professor of Comparative Piiilolcgy, Oxford ; Hon. LL.D. Dublin. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 

SCHILLER.— THE LIFE OF SCHILLER. ByHEiNRicH Duntzer. Trans- 
lated by Percy E. Pixkertox. With lUustrations. Crown 8vo. los. 6d. 

SEELEY, — Works by J. R. Seeley, I\I.A., Regius Professor of Modern History 
in the University of Cambridge, FelL\v of (Jonville and Caius College, Fellow 
of the Royal Historical Suciety, and Honorary IMember of the Historical Society 
of Massachusetts: — 
THE EXPANSION OF ENGLAND. Two Courses of Lectures. Crown Svo. 
4s. 6d. 

LECTURES AND ESSAYS. Svo. lo^. 6d. 

CoNTEN^^ : — Roman Imperialism : i. The Great Roman Revolution; 2. The 
Proximate Cause of the Fall of the Roman Empire; The Later Empire. — Milton's 
Political Opinions — IMilton's Poetry — Elementary Principles in Art — Liberal Educa- 
tion in Universities -English in Schools— The Church as a Teacher of Morality — The 
Teaching of Politics : an Inaugural Lecture delivered at Cambridge. 

SHELBURNE.— LIFE OF W^ILLIAM, EARL OF SHELBURNE, 
AFTERWARDS FIRST MARQUIS OF LANDSDOWNE. With Extracts 
from his Papers and Correspondence. By Lord Ed.mond Fitzmaurice. In 
Three Vols. Svo. Vol. 1. 1737 — 1766, 12^. ; Vol. II. 1766 — 1776, 12s. ; Vol. 
III. 1776— 1S05. i6s. 

SIBSON,— COLLECTED WORKS OF FRANCIS SIBSON, M.D., Lond., 
Fellow of the Royal Society, Honorary M.D. Trinity College, Dublin, and 
D.C.L. Durham. Fellow of the Royal College of Phj'siclans, S:c. Edited by 
William jNI. Ord, INI.D. With Illustrations. Four Volumes. Svo. 3/. 3^. 

SIME. — HISTORY OF GERMANY. By James Sime, M.A. i8mo. 35. 
Beino- Vol. V. of the Historical Course for Schools. Edited by Edward A. 
Freeman, D.C.L. 

SMITH (GOLDWIN).— THREE ENGLISH STATESMEN. A Course 

of Lectures on the Political History of England. By Goldwin Smith, M.A., 

D.C.L. Nev/ Edition. Crown Svo. 5J. 
SPINOZA. — SPINOZA : a Study of. By James Martineau, LL.D., D.D. 

Fellow of Manchester New College, Lcndon. With Portrait. Second Edition. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

ST. ANSELM.— By theVeryRev. R. W. Church, M. A., Dean of St. Paul's. 
New Edition. Crown Svo. 6^. (Biographical Series.) 

STATESMAN'S YEAR-BOOK, THE.— a Statistical and Histo 
rical Annual of the States of the Civilised World for the Year i885._ Twenty- 
sec nd Annual Publication. Revised after Official Returns. Edited by J. 
Scott Keltie. Crown Svo. ics. Gd. 

STATHAM.— BLACKS, BOERS, AND BRITISH: A Three-Comered 
Problem. By F. R. Statham. Crown Svo. 6s. 

STEVENSON.— HOUSE ARCHITECTURE. By J. J. Stevenson, 
Fellow of the Royal Institution of British Architects. With numerous Illustra- 
tions. Royal Svo. 2 Vols. iS^. each. Vol. I. Architecture. Vol. II. House 
Planning. 

ST. JOHNSTON.— CAMPING AMONG CANNIBALS. By Alfred 
St. Johnston. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d. 

STRANGFORD.— EGYPTIAN SHRINES AND SYRIAN SEPUL- 
CHRES, including a Visit to Palmyra. By Emily A. Beaufort (Viscountess 
Strangf a-d), Author of "The Eastern Shores of the A.driatic.," New Edition. 
Crown Svo. js. Cd. 



HISTORY, BIOGRAPHY, TRAVELS, ETC. 



TAIT.— AN ANALYSIS OF ENGLISH HISTORY, based upon Green's 
" Short History of the EngUsh People." By C. VV. A. Tait, M.A., Assistant 
Master, Clifton College. Crown 8vo. 35. 6a. 

TAIT.— CATHARINE AND CRAUFURD TAIT, WIFE AND SON OF 
ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY: a 
Memoir, Edited, at the request of the Archbishop, by the Rev. W. Benham, 
B.D., Rector of St. Edmund-the King and St. Nicholas Aeons, One of the Six 
Preachers of Can'^erbury Cathedral. With Two Portraits engraved by Jeens. 
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. (Biographical Series.) 
Abridged Edition. Crown 8vo. 2^. 6d. 

TERESA.— THE LIFE OF ST. TERESA. By Maria Trench. With 
Portrait engraved by Jeens. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 8^. 6d. 

THOMPSON.— HISTORY OF ENGLAND. By Edith Thompson. 
Being Vol. II. of the Historical Course for Schools, Edited by Edward A. 
Freeman, D.C.L. New Edition, revised and enlarged, with Coloured Maps. 
iBmo. 2^. 6d. 

THROUGH THE RANKS TO A COMMISSION.— New 

and Popular Edition. Crown 8vo. 25. 6d. 

TODHUNTER.— THE CONFLICT OF STUDIES; AND OTHER 
ESSAYS ON SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH EDUCATION. By Isaac 
Todhunter, M.A., F.R.S., late Fellow and Principal Mathematical Lecturer 
of St. John's College, Cambridge. 8vo. los. 6d. 

TRENCH (R. CHENEVIX).— For other Works by the same Author, 
see Theological and Belles Lettres Catalogues, and page 28 of tliis 
Catalogue. 

GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS IN GERMANY, and other Lectures on the Thiriy 
Years' War. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. 45. 

PLUTARCH, HIS LIFE, HIS LIVES, AND HIS MORALS. Five Lec- 
tures. Second Edition, enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. 3J. 6d. 

LECTURES ON MEDIEVAL CHURCH HISTORY. Being the substance 
of Lectures delivered in Queen's College, London. Second i^dition, revised. 

8V0. 12J. 

AN ESSAY ON THE LIFE AND GENIUS OF CALDERON. With 
Translationsfrom his '"Life's a Dream" and "Great Theatre of the World." 
Second Edition, revised and improved. Fcap. 8vo. s^. 

TRENCH (MRS. R.).— REMAINS OF THE LATE MRS. RICHARD 
TRENCH. Being Selections from her Journals, Letters, and other Papers. 
Edited by R. Chenevjx Trench, D.D. New and Cheaper Issue. 8vo. 6s 

TREVELYAN.— THE IRISH CRISIS. Being a Narrative of the Measures 
for the Relief of the Distress caused by the Great Irish Famine of 1846-7. By 
Sir Charles Trevelyan, Bart., K.C.B. 8vo. zs. 6d. 

TROLLOPE. — A HISTORY OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF 
FLORENCE FROM THE EARLIEST INDEPENDENCE OF THE 
COMMUNE TO THE FALL OF THE REPUBLIC IN 1831. By T. 
Adolphus Trollope. 4 Vols. 8vo. Cloth, 21^. 

TURNER.— SAMOA. A Hundred Years ago and long before, together with 
Notes on the Cults and Customs of Twenty-three other Islands in the Pacific. By 
George Turner, LL.D., ( f the London Mis^^ionary Society. With a Preface 
by E. B. TvLOR, F.R.S. With Maps. Crown 8vo. g^. 

TYLOR.— ANTHROPOLOGY : an Introduction to the Study of Man and 
Civilisation. By E. B. Tylor, D.C.L., F.R.S. With Illustrations. Crov/n 
Bvo. 7^. 6d. 

UPPINGHAM BY THE SEA.-A NARRATIVE OF THE YEAR 
AT BORTH. By J. H. S. Crown 'vo. 35. 6d. 



22 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF 



VICTOR EMMANUEL IL, FIRST KING OF ITALY. 

By G. S. GoDKiN. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. (Biographical Series.) 

WALLACE.— THE MALAY ARCHIPELAGO: the Land of the Orang 
Utan and the Bird of Paradi'^e. By Alfred Russel Wallace. A Narra- 
tive of Travel with Studies of Man and Nature. With Maps and numerous 
Illustrations. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7^. 6d. 

WALLACE (D. M.)— EGYPT: and the Egyptian Question. By D. Mac- 
kenzie Wallace, M.A., Author of "Russia: a Six Years' Residence," &c. 
8vo. 14^. 

WARD.— A HISTORY OF ENGLISH DRAMATIC LITERATURE TO 
THE DEATH OF QUEEN ANNE. By A. W. Ward, M.A., Professor of 
History and English Literature in Owens College, Manchester. Two Vols. 
Bvo. 32^. 

WARD (J.)— EXPERIENCES OF A DIPLOMATIST. Being recollections 
of Germany founded on Diaries kept during the years 1840 — 1870. By John 
Ward, C.B., late H.M. Minister- Resident to the Hanse Towns. Bvo.ics. 6d 

WARD. — ENGLISH POETS. Selections, ' with Critical Introductions by 
various writers, and a General Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited 
by T. H. Ward, M.A. 4 vuls New Edition. Crown Bvo. js. 6d. each. 

Vol. I. CHAUCER to DONNE. 

Vol. II. BEN JOXSON to DRYDEN. 

Vol. III. ADDISON to BLAKE. 

Vol. IV. WORDSVv^OPvTH to ROSSETTI. 

WATERTON (C.)— WANDERINGS IN SOUTH A:\IERICA. THE 
NORTH-WEST OF THE UNITED STATES, AND THE ANTILLES 
IN 1812. 1816. 1820, and 10^4. With Original InstrucUons f ^r the perfect Preser- 
vation of Birds, etc., f-.r Cabinets of Natural Hit-tory. By Charles W.vrERTON. 
Nev.- Edition, edited with Biographical Introduction and Explanatory Index 
by the Rev. J. G. Wood. M.A. With 100 Illustrations. Cheaper Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. 
Pe ople's Illustrated Edition. Demy 4to. 6d. 

WATSON.— A VISIT TO WAZAN, THE SACRED CITY OF MOROCCO. 
By Robert St'Ence Watson. With Illustrations. 8vo. 10s. 6d. 

WATSON (ELLEN.)— A RECORD OF ELLEN WATSON. Arranged 
and Edited by Anna EucivLAND. With Portrait. Crowa 8vo. 6s. 

WESLEY.— JOHN WESLEY AND THE EVANGELICAL REACTION 
of the Eighteenth Century. By Julia Wedgwood. Cro\\n Bvo. 8j. 6ii. 

WKEELER.— \ SHORT HISTORY OF INDIA, AND OF THE 
FRONTIER STATES OF AFGHANISTAN, NEPAUL, AND BURMA. 
By J. Talbovs Wheeler, late Assistant-Secretary to the Government cf 
India, Foreign Department, and late Secretary to the Government of British 
Burma. With Maps and Tables. Crown Bvo. 12J. 

WHEWELL,— WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D., late Master of Trinity 
College, Cambridce. An account of his Writings, with Selections from his 
Literary and Scielitific correspondence. By I. Todhunter, M.A., F.R.S. 
I wo Vols. Bvo. 25^. 

WHITE.— THE NATURAL HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF SEE- 
BORNE. By Gilbert White. Edited, with Memoir and Notes, by Frank; 
Buckland, a Chapter on Anti(;uities by Lord Selrorne, and numerous Il- 
lustrations by P. H. Delamotte. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
Also a Large Paper Edition, containing, in addition to the above, upwards cf 
Thirty Woodburytype Illustrations from Drawings by Prof. Delamotte. Two 
Vols. 4to. Half morocco, elegant. 4/. 45-. 

WILSON.— A MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON, M.D., F.R.S.E., Regius 
Professor of Technology in the University of Edinburgh, By his SiSTEK. New 
Edition. Crown 8v3. Gs. 



WORKS IN POLITICS, ETC. 



23 



WILSON (DANIEL, LL.D.)— Works by Daniel Wilson, LL.D., 
Professor of History and English Literature in University College, Toronto ; — 

PREHISTORIC ANNALS OF SCOTLAND. New Edition, with numerous 
Illustrations. Two Vols. Demy 8vo. 36J. 

PREHISTORIC MAN : Researches into the Origin of Civilization in the Old 
and New World. New Edition, revised and enlarged throughout, with numerous 
Illustrations and Two Coloured Plates. Two Vols. 8vo. 36J. 

CHATTERTON : A Biographical Study. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. 

YOE.— THE BURMAN: His Life and Notions. By Shway Yoe. Two Vols. 
Crown 8vo. 9^. 

YONGE (CHARLOTTE M.)— Works by Charlotte M. Yonge, 

Author of the " Heir of Redclyffe," &c. &c. :— 
CAMEOS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY. From Rollo to Edward II. Extra 

Fcap. 8vo. Third Edition, ss. 
Second Series, THE WARS IN FRANCE. Extra fcap. 8vo. Third 

Edition. 5^. 

Third Series, THE V/ARS OF THE ROSES. Extra fcap. 8vo. 5s. 
Fourth Series, REFORMATION TIMES. Extra fcap. 8vo. ss. 
Fifth Series, ENGLAND AND SPAIN. Extra fcap. 8vo. 5^. 
HISTORY OF FRANCE. Maps. i8mo. 3s. 6^. _ 

[Historical Cotirse for Sclwols. 
HISTORY OF CHRISTIAN NAMES. New Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo. 
7J. ()d. 



POLITICS, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ECONOMY, 
LAW, AND KINDRED SUBJECTS. 

ANGLO-SAXON LAW.— ESSAYS IN. Contents : Law Courts-Land 
and Family Laws and Legal Procedure generally. With Select cases. 
Medium 8vo. xZs. 

ARNOLD.— THE ROMAN SYSTEM OF PROVINCIAL ADMINIS- 
TRATION TO THE ACCESSION OF CONSTANTINE THE GREAT. 
Being the Arnold Prize Essay for 1879. By W. T. Arnold, B.A. Grown 
8vo. 6s. 

BERNARD.— FOUR LECTURES ON SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH 
DIPLOMACY. By Montague Bernard, M. A., Chichele Professor of 
International Law and Diplomacy, Oxford. Svo. 95-. 

BIGELOW.— HISTORY OF PROCEDURE IN ENGLAND, FROM 
THE NORMAN CONQUEST. The Norman Period, 1066-1204. By 
Melville Madison Bigelow, Ph.D., Harvard University. Svo. i6j. 

BRIGHT (JOHN, M. P.).— Works by the Right Hon. John Bright, 
M.P. 

SPEECHES ON QUESTION^ OF PUBLIC POLICY. Edited by Professor 

Thorold Rogers, M.P. Author's Popular Edition. Globe Svo. 35. 
LIBRARY EDITION. Two Vols. Svo. With Portrait. 25J. 
PUBLIC ADDRESSES. Edited by J. Thorold Rogers, M.P. Svo. 14s'. 

BUCKNILL.— THE CARE OF THE INSANE, AND THEIR LEGAL 
CONTROL. By J. C. Bucknill, M.D., F.R.S., late Lord Chancellor's Visitor 
of Lunatics. Crown Svo. 35. ()d. 

CAIRNES. — Works by J. E. Cairnes, M.A., sometime Professor of Political 
Economy in University College, London : — < 
POLITICAL ESSAYS. Svo. xos. 6d. 

THE CHARACTER AND LOGICAL METHOD OF POLITICAL ECO- 
NOMY, New Edition, enlarged. Svo. 7^. 6d. 



24 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF 



COBDEN (RICHARD).— SPEECHES ON QUESTIONS OF PUBLIC 
POLICY. By Richard Cobdex. Edited by the Right Hon. John Bright, 
M.P., and J. E. Thorold Rogers, M.P. Popular Edition. Svo. 3s. 6d. 

COSSA.— GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF POLITICAL ECONOMY. By 
Dr. LuiGi CossA, Professor of Political Economy in the University of Pavia. 
Translated from the Second Italian Edition. With a Preface by W. Stanley 
Jevons, F.R.S. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d. 

FAWCETT.— Works by Right Hon. Henry Fawcett, M.A., M.P., F.R.S. 
late Fellow of Trinity Hall, and Professor of Political Economy in the University 
of Cambridge : — 

THE ECONOMIC POSITION OF THE BRITISH LABOURER. Extra 
fcap. Svo. 5^. 

MANUAL OF POLITICAL ECONOMY. _ Sixth Edition, revised, wth a 
Chapter on State Socialism and the Nationalisation of the Land, and an Index, 
etc. Crown Svo. 12s. 

SPEECHES ON SOME CURRENT POLITICAL QUESTIONS. Svo. 

los. 6d. 

FREE TRADE AND PROTECTION : an Inquiry into the Causes which have 
retarded the general adoption of Free Trade since its introduction into England. 
Sixth and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 3^. 6d. 

INDIAN FINANCE. Three Essays, with Introduction and Appendix. Svo 

ESSAYS ON POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SUBJECTS. By Right Hon. 
Henry Fawcett, M.P., and Millicent Garrett Fawcett. Svo. zos. 6d. 

FAWCETT (MRS.)— Works by Millicent Garrett Fawcett:— 
POLITICAL ECONOMY FOR BEGINNERS. WITH QUESTIONS. New 

Edition. iBmo. 2s. 6d. 
TALES IN POLITICAL ECONOMY. Crown Svo. 3^. 

FISKE.— AMERICAN POLITICAL IDEAS VIEWED FROM THE 
STANDPOINT OF UNIVERSAL HISTORY. Three Lectures delivered 
at the Royal Institution of Great Britain. By John Fiske, Author of 
"Darwinism: and other Essays," "Excursions of an Evolutionist," &c. 
Crown Svo. ^s. 

GOSCHEN.— REPORTS AND SPEECHES ON LOCAL TAXATION. 

By George J. Goschen, Isl.V. Royal Svo. 55. 

GUIDE TO THE UNPROTECTED, in Every Day Matters Relating 
to Property and Income. By a Banker's Daughter. Fifth Edition, Revised. 
Extra fcap. Svo. 3^. 6d. 

HAMILTON, — MONEY AND VALUE: an Inquiry' into the Means and 
Ends of Economic Production, with an Appendix on the Depreciation of Silver 
and Indian Currency. By Rowland Hamilton. Svo. z2s. 
HARWOOD.— Works by George Harwood, M.A. 
DISESTABLISHiMENT : a Defence of the Principle of a National Church. 

THE COMING DEMOCRACY. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

HILL.— Works by Oct.wia Hill:— ^ ^ „ 

OUR COMMON LAND; and other Short Essays, Extra fcap, 8vo. 3^* o*/. 
Contents:— Our Common Land. District Visiting. A more Excellent A\ ay of 
Charity. A Word on Good Citizenship. Open Spaces. Effectual Chanty, I he 
Future of our Commons. 

HOMES OF THE LONDON POOR. Popular Edition. Cr. Svo. Sewed, m 
HOLLAND.— THE TREATY RELATIONS OF RUSSIA AND TURKEY 
FROM 1774 TO 1S53. A Lecture delivered at Oxford. April 1877, By 1. H.. 
Holland D.C.L., Professor of International Law and Diplomacy, Oxford. 
Crown 8vo, is. 



WORKS IN POLITICS, ETC 



2? 



JEVONS.— Works by W. Stanley Jevons, LL.D., M.A., F.R.S. (For other 
Works by the same Author, see Educational and Philosophical Cata- 
logues.): — 

THE THEORY OF POLITICAL ECONOMY. Second Edition, revised, with 

new Preface and Appendices. 8vo. los. 6d. 
PRIMER OF POLITICAL ECONOMY. i8mo. i^. 

METHODS OF SOCIAL REFORM, and other Papers. Demy 8vo. lo^. 6d. 

INVESTIGATIONS IN CURRENCY AND FINANCE. Edited, with an 
Introduction, by H. S. Foxwell, M.A., Fellow and Lecturer of St. John's 
College, Cambridge, and Professor of PoHtical Economy at University College, 
London. Illustrated by 20 Diagrams. Demy 8vo. 2t.s. 

LAVELEYE.— PRIMITIVE PROPERTY. By Emile de Laveleve. 
Translated by G. R. L. Marriott, LL.B., with an Introduction by T. E. 
Cliffe Leslie. LL.B. Svo. z2s. 

LIGHTWOOD.— THE NATURE OF POSITIVE LAW. By John M. 
LiGHTWooD, M.A., of Lincoln's Inn, Barrister-at-Law, Fellow of Trinity Hall, 
Cambridge. Demy Svo. 125. 6d. 

LUBBOCK,— ADDRESSES. POLITICAL AND EDUCATIONAL. By 

Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., &c., &c. 8vo. 8^. 6d. 

MACDONELL.-^THE LAND QUESTION, WITH SPECIAL 
REFERENCE TO ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND. By John Macdonel, 
Barrister-at-Law. 8vo. lo^. 6d. 

MAITLAND.— PLEAS OF THE CROWN FOR THE COUNTY OF 
GLOUCESTER, BEFORE THE ABBOT OF READING AND HIS 
FELLOW JUSTICES ITINERANT, IN THE FIFTH YEAR OF THE 
REIGN OF KING HENRY THE THIRD AND THE YEAR OF 
GRACE, 1221. Edited by F. W. Maitland. Svo. js. 6d. 

MARSH ALL.— THE ECONOMICS OF INDUSTRY. By A. Marshall, 
M.A., Professor of Political Economy in the University of Cambridge, late 
Principal of University College Bristol, and Mary Paley Marshall, late 
Lecturer at Newnham Hall, Cambridge. Extra fcap. Svo. 2s. 6d. 

MONAHAN. — THE METHOD OF LAW: an Essay on the Statement and 
Arrangement of the Legal Standard of Conduct. By J. H. Monahan, Q.C. 
Crown Svo. 6^. 

PATERSON. — Works by James Paterson, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, sometime 

Commissioner for English and Irish Fisheries, &c. 
THE LIBERTY OF THE SUBJECT AND THE LAWS OF ENGLAND 

RELATING TO THE SECURITY OF THE PERSON. Commentaries on. 

Cheaper issue. Crown Svo. 215-. 
THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS, OF SPEECH, AND OF PUBLIC WOR- 

SHIP. Being Commentaries on the Liberty of the Subject and the Laws of 

England. Crown Svo. 12s. 
PHEAR.— INTERNATIONAL TRADE, AND THE RELATION BE- 

7'WEEN EXPORTS AND IMPORTS. A Paper read before the Exmouth 

Liberal Association, on July 22, 1881. By Sir John B. Phear. CrownSvo. "zs.td. 

PHILLIMORE.— PRIVATE LAW AMONG THE ROMANS, from the 
Pandects. By John George Phillimore, Q.C. Svo. 16s. 

POLLOCK (F.).— ESSAYS IN JURISPRUDENCE AND ETHICS. By 
Frederick Pollock. M.A., LL.D., Corpus Christi Professor of Jurisprudence 
in the University of Oxford ; late Fellow of Trinity College, Camb. Svo. \os. 6d. 

PRACTICAL POLITICS.— ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL LIBERAL 
FEDERATION. Complete in one volume. Svo. 6s. Or :— 
I. THE TENANT FARMER: Land Laws and Landlords. By James Howard. 

II ^FOREIGN POLICY. By Right Hon. M. E. Grant Duff, M.P. Svo. is. 

III FREEDOM OF LAND. By G. Shaw Lefevre, M.P. Svo. 2s. 6d. 
IV." BRITISH COLONIAL POLICY. By Sir David Wedderburn, Bart., 

M.P. Svo. TS. 



26 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF 



RICHEY.— THE IRISH LAND LAWS. By Alexander G. Rishey, Q.C, 
LL.D., Deputy Regius Professor of Feudal and English Law in the University 
of Dublin. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d. 

SIDGWICK.— Works by He>jry Sidgwick, M.A., LL.D., Knightbrldge 

Professor of ]\Ioral Philosophy in the University of Cambridge, &c. : 
THE PRINCIPLES OF POLITICAL ECONOMY, Demy 8vo. 16^. 
THE METHODS OF ETHICS. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 

Demy 8vo. 14^. 

A SUPPLEMENT TO THE SECOND EDITION. Containing all the 
Important Additions and Alterations in the Third Edition. Demy 8vo. 65. 

STATESMAN'S YEAR BOOK, THE : a STATISTICAL AND 

HISTORICAL ANNUAL OF THE STATES OF THE CIVILIZED 
WORLD, FOR THE YEAR 18S5. Twenty -second Annual Publication. 
Revised after Official Returns. Edited by J. Sc jtt Keltie. Crown 8vo. xos. Gd. 

STEPHEN (C. E.)— THE SERVICE OF THE POOR ; Being an Inquiry 
into the Reasons for and against the Establishment of Religious Sisterronl-; 
for Charitable Purposes. By Caroline E.milia Stephen. Crown 8vo. 6^. 6d. 

STEPHEN. — Works by Sir James Fitzjamss Stephen, K.C.S.I., D.C.L. 

A Judge of the High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division. 
A DIGEST OF THE LAW OF EVIDENCE. Fourth Edition, with new Preface. 
Crown 8vo. (ys. 

A HISTORY OF THE CRIMINAL LAW OF ENGLAND. Three Vols. Demy 
8vo. 4S5. 

A DIGEST OF THE CRIMINAL LAV/. (Crimes and Punishments.) 8vo. 16^. 

A DIGEST OF THE LAW OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURiii IN INDICT- 
ABLE OFFENCES. By Sir Jame^ F. Stephen, K. CS. I. , a Jud=:e of the 
High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division, and Herbsrt Stephen. 
M , of the Middle Temple, Earrister-at-Law. 8vo. 12^. dd. 

LETTERS ON THE ILBERT BILL. Reprinted from The Times. , Svo. is. 

STEPHEN (J. K.).— INTERNATIONAL LAW AND INTERNA- 
TIONAL RELATIONS : an Attempt to Ascertain the Best Method of 
Discussing the Topics of International Law By J. K. Stephen, B.A., of the 
Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law. Crown Svo. 63. 

STUBBS. — VILLAGE POLITICS. Addresses and Sermons on the Labour 
Question. By C. W. Stubbs, M.A., Vicar of Granborough, Bucks. Extra 
fcap. Svo. 3^. ^d. 

THORNTON.— W^orks by W. T. Thornton, C.E., Secretary for Public 
Works in the India Office :— 
A PLEA FOR PEASANT PROPRIETORS: With the Outlines of a Plan for 

their Establishment in Ireland. New Edition, revised. Crown Svo. js.6d. 
INDIAN PUBLIC WORKS AND COGNATE INDIAN TOPICS. With 
Map of Indian Railways. Crown Svo. 8j. 6d. 
WALKER. — Works by F. A. Walker, M.A., Ph.D., Professor of Political 
Economy and History, Yale College : — 
THE WAGES QUESTION. A Treatise on Wages and the Wages Class. Svo. 

MONEY. Svo. i6^. 

MONEY IN ITS RELATIONS TO TRADE AND INDUSTRY. Crown Svo. 
fs. 6d. 

POLITICAL ECONOMY. Svo. loj. 6d. 
LAND AND ITS RENT. Fcap. Svo. 35. 6d. 

WILSON.— RECIPROCITY, BI-METALLISM, AND LAND-TENURE 
REFORM. By A. J. Wilson, Author of "The Resources of Modern 
Countries." Svo. ^s. 6d. 



WORKS ON LANGUAGE. 



27 



WORKS CONNECTED WITH THE SCIENCE OR THE 
HISTORY OF LANGUAGE. 

ABBOTT.~A SHAKESPERIAN GRAMMAR: An Attempt to illustrate 
some of the Differences between Elizabethan and Modern English. By ihe 
Rev. E. A. Abbott, D.D., Head IMasterof the City of London School. New 
and Enlarged Edition. Extra fcap. 8vo. 6s. 

BREYM ANN.— A FRENCH GRAMMAR BASED ON PHILOLOGICAL 
PRINCIPLES. By Hermann Breymann, Ph.D., Professor of Philology in 
the University of Munich, late Lecturer on French Language and Literature in 
Owens College, Manchester. E.xtra fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. 

ELLIS. — PRACTICAL HINTS ON THE QUANTITATIVE PRO- 
NUNCIATION OF LATIN, FOR THE USE OF CLASSICAL 
TEACHERS AND LINGUISTS. By A. J. Ellis, B.A., F.R.S.. &c. 
Extra fcap. 8vo. 4^. 6d. 

FASNACHT. — Works by G. Eugene Fasnacht, Author of "Macmillan's 
Progressive French Course," Editor of " Macmillan's Foreign Scho^;! 
Classics," &c. 

THE ORGANIC METHOD OF STUDYING LANGUAGES. I. French. 
Crown Bvo. 3s. 6d. 

A SYNTHETIC FRENCH GRAMMAR FOR SCHOOLS. Crown Bvo. 
3^. 6d. 

FLEAY.— A SHAKESPEARE MANUAL. By the Rev. F. G. Fleav, 
M.A., Head Master of Skipton Grammar School. Extra fcap. Bvo. 4^. 6d. 

GOODWIN. — Works by W. W. Goodwin, Professor of Greek Literature in 

Harvard University: — 
SYNTAX OF THE GREEK MOODS AND TENSES. New Edition. 

Crown Bvo. 6s. 6d. 
A SCHOOL GREEK GRAMMAR. Crown Bvo. 3s. 6d. 
A GREEK GRAMMAR. Crown Bvo. 6s. 

GREEK TESTAMENT.— THE NEW TESTAMENT IN THE 
ORIGINAL GREEK. The Text revised by B. F. Wkstcott, D.D., Regius 
Professorof Divinity, and F. J. A. Hort, D.D., Hulsean Professor of Divmay, 
Fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge; late Fellows of Trinity College, 
Cambridge. Two Vols. Crown Bvo- los. 6d. 

Vol. I. Text.— V. 1. II. Introduction anil Appendix. 
THE REVISERS AND THE GREEK TEXT OK THE NEWTESTAMENT. 
By Two Members of the New Testament C ompany. Bvo. 2s. 6d. 

HADLEY.— ESSAYS PHILOLOGICAL AND CRITICAL. Selected from 
the Papers of James Hadlev, LL.D., Professor of Greek in Yale College, &c. 
Bvo i6s. 

HALES.— LONGER ENGLISH POEMS. With Notes. Philological and 
Explanatory, and an Introduction on the Teaching of English. Chiefly for use 
in Schools. Edited by J. W. Hales, M. A., _ Professor of English I-iterature at 
King's College, London, &c. &c. Fifth Edition. Extra fcap. Bvo. 4^. 6d. 

HELFENSTEIN (JAMES).— a COMPARATIVE GRAMMAR OF 
THE TEUTONIC LANGUAGES: Being at the same time a Historical 
Grammar of the English Language, and comprising Gctliic. Anglo-Saxon, Early 
English, Modern Enghsh, Icelandic [Old Norse), Danish, Swedish, Old High 
German, Middle High German, Modern German, Old Saxon, Old Frisian, and 
Dutch. By James Helfenstein, Ph.D. Bvo. iSs. 

MASSON (GUSTAVE).— A COMPENDIOUS DICTIONARY OF 

THE FRENCH LANGUAGE (French-English and English-French). Adapted 
from the Dictionaries of Professor Alfred Elwall. Followed by a List of the 
Principal Diverging Derivations, and preceded by Chronological and Historical 
Tables. By Gustave Masson, Assistant.Master atid Librarian, Harrow 
School. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s, 



2$ 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF 



MAYOR.— A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL CLUE TO LATIN LITERATURE. 
Edited after Dr. E. Hubner. With large Additions by John E. B. Mayor. 
M.A. , Professor of Latin in the University of Cambridge. Crown 8vo. lo^. 6d. 

MORRIS. — Works by the Rev. Richard Morris. LL.D., President of the 

Philological Society. Editor of " Specimens of Ear]y English," &c., &c. : — 
HISTORICAL OUTLINES OF ENGLISH ACCIDENCE, comprising 

Chapters on the History and Development of the Language, and on Wcrd- 

formation. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 6s. 
ELEMENTARY LESSONS IN HISTORICAL ENGLISH GRAMMAR, 

containing Accidence and Wood-formation. Third Edition. i8mo. 2S. 6d. 

OLIPHANT.— THE OLD AND MIDDLE ENGLISH. By T. L. 
Kington Oliphant, M.A., of Balliol College, Oxford. A New Edition, 
revised and greatly enlarged, )f "The Sources of Standard English." Extra 
fcap. 8vo. gs. 

PHILOLOGY.— THE JOURNAL OF SACRED AND CLASSICAL 
PHILOLOGY. Four Vols. 8vo. 125. 6.^/. each. 
THE JOURNAL OF PHILOLOGY. New Series. Edited by John E. B. 

Mayor, M.A.. and W. Aldis Wright, M.A; 4^. 6d. (Half-yearly.) 
THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PHILOLOGY. Edited by Basil L. 
GiLDERSLEEVE, Professor of Greek in the John Hopkins University. Svo. 
4s. 6d. (Qi-arterly.) 

PHRYNICHUS.— THE NEW PHRYNICHUS. Being a Revised Text of 
T/ie Ecloga of the Grammarian PhrynicJncs. With Introductions and Commen- 
tary'. By W. Guxion Rutherford, M. A., LL.D. of Balliol College, Head 
Master of Westminster School. Svo. iSj. 

ROBY (H. J.) — Works by Henry John Roby, M.A., late Fellow of St. 
John's College, Cambridge. 
A GRAMMAR OF THE LATIN LANGUAGE. FROM PLAUTUS TO 
SUETONIUS. In Two Parts. Second Edition. Part I. containing :- Book 
I. Sounds. Book II. Inflexions. Bojk III. Word Formation. Appendices. 
Crown Svo. Zs. 6d. Part II. — Syntax. Prepositions. &c. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d. 
A LATIN GRAMMAR FOR SCHOOLS. Crown Svo. 5^. 

SCHAFF.— THE GREEK TESTAMENT AND THE ENGLISH VER- 
SION, A COMPANION TO. By Philip Schaff, D.D., President of the 
American Committee of Revision. With Facsimile Illustrations of MSS. and 
Standard Editions of the New Testament. Crown Svo. 12s. 

SCHMIDT.— THE RHYTHMIC AND METRIC OF THE CLASSICAL 
LANGUAGES. To which are added, the Lyric Parts of the "iMedea" of 
Euripides and the "Antigone" of Sophocles; with Rhythmical Scheme and 
Commentary. By Dr. J. H. Schmidt. Translated from the German by J. W. 
White, D.D. Svo. los. 6d. 

TAYLOR. — Works by the Rev. Isaac Taylor, M.A. :— 
ETRUSCAN RESEARCHES. With Woodcuts. Svo. 14^. 
WORDS AND PLACES; or. Etymological Illustrations of History, Ethnology 
and Geography. By the Rev. Isaac Taylor. Third Edition, revised and 
compressed. With iNTaps. Globe Svo. 6^. 
GREEKS AND GOTHS: a Study on the Runes. Svo. qs. 

TRENCH. — Works by R. Chenevix Trench, D.D. (For other Works by the 
same Author, see Theological Catalogue.) 
SYNONYMS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. Ninth Edition, enlarged. Svo. 

ON°THE^^STUDY OF WORDS. Lectures Addressed (originally) to the Pupils 
at the Diocesan Training School, Winchester. Eighteenth Edition, enlarged. 
Fcap. Svo. s.y. 

ENGLISH PAST AND PRESENT. Eleventh Edition, revi.sed and improved. 

A^s'^ELFCT GLOSSARY OF ENGLISH WORDS USED FORMERLY IN 
SENSES DIFFERENT FROM THEIR PRESENT. Fifth Edition, 
enlarged. Fcap. Svo. 5^, 



THE GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES. 



29 



VINCENT AND DICKSON.— a HANDBOOK TO MODERN 
GREEK. By Edgar Vincent, M.A., and T. G. Dickson. Second Edition 
revised and enlarged. With an Appendix on the Relation of Modern Greek to 
Classical Greek. By Professor R. C. Jebb. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

WHITNEY.— A COMPENDIOUS GERMAN GRAMMAR. By W. D. 
Whitney, Professor of Sanskrit and Instructor in Modern Languages in Yale 
College. Crown 8vo. 6s. 

WHITNEY AND EDGREN.— A COMPENDIOUS GERMAN 
AND ENGLISH DICTIONARY, with Notation of Correspondences and 
Brief Etymologies. By Professor W. D. Whitney, assisted by A. H. Edgken, 
Crown 8vo. 75-. 6d. 
The GERMAN-ENGLISH Part may be had separately. Price 5^. 

WRIGHT (ALDIS).— THE BIBLE WORD-BOOK: a Glossary of 
Archaic Words and Phrases in the Authorised Version of the Bible and the Book 
of Common Prayer. By W. Aldis Wright, M.A., Fellow and Bursar of 
Trinity College, Cambridge. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown Bvo. 
7S. 6d. 

ZECHARIAH.— THE HEBREW STUDENT'S COMMENTARY ON 
HEBREW AND LXX. With Excursus on Several Grammatical Subjects. 
By W. H. Lowe, M.A., Hebrew Lecturer at Christ's College, Cambridge. 
Demy 8vo. lo^. 6d, 



THE GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES. 

Uniformly printed in i8mo, with Vignette Titles by J. E. Millais, T. Woolner, 
W. HoLMAN Hunt, Sir Noel Paton, Arthur Hughes, &c. Engraved on Steel 
by Jeens. Bound in extra cloth, 45. 6d. each volume. 

Messrs. Macmillan have, in their Golden Treasury Series, especially provided 
editions of standard works, volumes of selected poetry, and original compo- 
sitions, which entitle this series to be called classical. Nothing can be better 
than the literary execution, nothing more elegant than the material workman- 
ship." — British Quarterly Review. 

THE GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS 
AND LYRICAL POEMS IN THE ENGLISH LAN- 

GUAGE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Francis Turner 
Palgkave. 

THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND FROM THE BEST 
POETS. Selected and arranged by Coventry Patmore. 

THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hymn Writers. 
Selected and arranged by the Right Hon. the Earl ok Selborne. A Neiv 
and Enlarged Edition. 

THE FAIRY BOOK; the Best Popular Fairy Stories. Selected and ren- 
dered anew by the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." 
"A delightful selection, in a delightful external form ; full of the physical splen- 
dour and vast opulence of proper fairy tales." — Spectator. 

THE BALLAD BOOK, a Selection of the Choicest British Ballads. 

Edited by William Allingham. 
THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. Selected and 

arranged by Mark Lemon. 

?'The fullest and best jest book that has yet appeared."— Saturday Review. 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE OF 



BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND 

EVIL. With Notes and Glcssaral Index. By W. Aldis Wright, M.A. 
"The beautiful little edition of Eac ju's Essays, now before us, djes credit to 
the taste and scholarship cf Mr. Aldis Wright." — Spectator. 

THE PILGRIM'S P R O G R E S S from this V/orld to that which is to 
come. By John Bunyan. 

"A beautiful and scholarly reprint." — Spectator. 
THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR THE 
YOUNG. Selected and arranged by C. F. Alexander. 
'* A well-selected volume of sacred poetry." — Spectator. 

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS of All Times and AH Coimlrles. 

Gathered and Narrated Ane>\'. By the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." 

*¦ . . . To the young, for whom it is especially intended, as a most interesting 
collection of thnlling tales well told ; and to their elders as a useful handbook 
of reference, and a pleasant one to take up when their wish is to while away 
a weary half-hour. We have seen no prettier gift-book for a Lng time." — 
Athen^um. 

THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Edited, from the Original Edition, by J. W. Clark, M.A., Fellow of Trinity 
College, Cambridge. 

THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO, Transl.>^ted into English, with 
Notes by J. Li.. Davies, jM.A., and D. J. Vaughan, M.A. 
" A dainty and cheap Lttle edition." — Examiner. 

THE SONG BOOK. Words and tunes from the best Poets and Musicians. 
Selected and arranged by John Hullah, late Professor of Vocal Music in 
King's College, London. 

" A choice collection of the sterling songs of England, Scotland, and Ireland, 
with the music of each prefi.xed to the words. How much true wholesome 
pleasure such a book can diffuse, and will diffuse, we trust, through many 
thousand families. " — Examiner. 

LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by 

Gu.sTAVE IMasson, French Master in Harrow School. 

" We doubt whether even in France itself so interesting and complete a repertory 
of the best French Lyrics could be found." — Notes and QueivIES, 

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By an Old Bov. 

" A perfect gem of a book. The best and most healthy book about boys for 
boys that ever was written." — Illustrated Ti-MES. 

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. Gathered from the Old Histories and written 
anew by the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." 

"An admirable addition to an aamirable series." — West.minster Review. 
GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. New Edition. 

THE CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of 
the First Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by 
Edward Jenkins, Author of " Ginx's Baby," &c. 
"A charming little volume." — Standard. 

SCOTCH SONG, a Selection of the Choicest Lyrics of Scotland Com- 
piled and arranged, with brief Notes, by Maky Caulyi e Aitkix. 
" The book is one that should find a place in every library, we had almost said in 
every pocket."— Spectator. 

DEUTSCHE LYRIK : The Golden Treasury of the best German Lyrical 
Poems. Selected and arranged, with Notes and Literary Introduction, by Dr. 

FiUCHHELM. 

"A b'ok which all lovers of German poetry will wckome. — \\ estminster 
Review. 



THE GOI.DEN TREASURY SERIES. 



31 



HERRICK: Selections from the Lyrical Poems. Arranged, with Notes, by 
F. T. Palgrave. 

" For the first time the sweetest of English pastoral poets is placed within the 
range of the great world of readers." — Academy. 

POEMS OF PLACES. Edited by H. \V. Longfellow. England and 
Wales. Two Vols. 

*' A very happy idea, thoroughly worked out by an editor who possesses every 
qualification for the task." — Spectator. 

MATTHEW ARNOLD'S SELECTED POEMS. 

" A volume which is a thing of beauty in itself."— Pall Mall Gazette. 
THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS 
IN SPAIN. By C. M. YoNGE, Author of the " Heir of Redclyffe." 
With Vignette by Holman Hunt. 

CHARLES LAMB'S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. 

Edited by the Rev. A. Ainger, M.A., Reader at the Temple. 
POEMS OF WORDSWORTH, chosen and Edited, with Preface 
by Matthew Arnold. (Also a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.) 
'* A volums, every page of which is weighted with the golden fruit of poetry. ' 
— Pall Mall Gazette. 

SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS. Edited by F. T. Palgrave. 
POEMS FROM SHELLEY. Selected and arranged by Stopford 

A. Brooke, M.A. (Also a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. i2j. 6d.) 

" Full of power and true appreciation of Shelley." — Spectator. 

ESSAYS OF JOSEPH ADDISON. Chosen and Edited by John 
Richard Green, M.A., LL.D.* 

" This is a most welcome addition to a most e.xcellent series." — Examiner. 

POETRY OF BYRON. chosen and arranged by Matthew Arnold. 
(Also a Large Paper Edition, Crown 8vo.) gs- 

"It is written in Mr. Arnold's neatest vein, and in Mr. Arnold's most pelluciil 
manner." — Athen^um. 

SELECTIONS FROM THE WRITINGS OF WALTER 
SAVAGE LAN DOR.— Arranged and Edited by Professor Sidnev 

COLVIN. 

SIR THOMAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI; Letter 

to a Friend, &c., and Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greenhill, M.D. 
" Dr. Greenhlll's annotations display care and research to a degree rare among 

English editors. The bibliographical details furnished leave nothing to be 

desired," — ATHEN^tUM. 

THE SPEECHES AND TABLE-TALK OF THE 
PROPHET MOHAMMAD.— Chosen and Translated, with an 
Introduction and Notes, by Stanley Lane-Poole. 

SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S POEMS.— with an Intro- 
duction by Mrs. Oliphant. 

LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER.— Edited, with Introduction. 
By the Rev. W. Benham, B.D., Editor of the "Globe Edition " of Cowper's 
Poetical Works. 

THE POETICAL WORKS OF JOHN KEATS.— Reprinted 
from the Original Editions, with Notes. By Francis Turner Palgrave. 

LYRICAL POEMS. By Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Selected and Anno- 
tated. By Francis Turner Palgrave. 

Other Voliivies to folhnv^ 



32 



MACMILLAN'S CATALOGUE. 



Now Publishing, in Crown Zvo. Price 3^. ^d. each, 

A SERIES OF SHORT BOOKS ON HIS RIGHTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES. 

Edited by HENRY CRAIK, M.A. (Oxon.) ; LL.D. (Glasgow). 

This series is intended to meet the demand for accessible information on the ordi- 
nary conditions, and the current terms, of our political life. Ignorance of these not 
only takes from the study of histor>' the interest which comes from a contact with 
practical politics, but, still worse, it unfits men for their place as intelligent citizens. 
The series will deal with the details of the machinery whereby our Constitution 
works, and the broad Hnes upon which it has been constructed. 

The follo-ving Volumes are ready: — 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT. By FL D. Tkaill, D.C.L., late Fellow 
of St. John's College, Oxford. 

THE ELECTORATE AND THE LEGISLATURE. 

By Spenxer Walpole, Author of "The History of England from 1815." 

THE NATIONAL BUDGET; THE NATIONAL DEBT; 

TAXES AND RATES. By A. J. Wilson. 

THE POOR LAW. By Rev. T. W. Fowle, M.A. 

THE STATE AND ITS RELATION TO TRADE. By Sir T. 

H. Farrer, Bart. 

THE STATE IN RELATION TO LABOUR. By W. Stanley 
JEVONS, LL.D , F.R.S. 

THE STATE AND THE CHURCH. By the Hon. A. Arthur 
Ei.uoT, M.P. 

FOREIGN RELATIONS. By Spencer Walpole, Author of " The 

History of England from 1815." 

LOCAL GOVERNMENT. By M. D. Chalmers, M.A. 

THE STATE IN ITS RELATION TO EDUCATION. 

By Henky Craik, M.A, LL.D. 
THE LAND LAWS. By Frederick Pollock, M.A., late Fellow of 
Trinity College, Cambridge, Corpus Christi Professor of Jurisprudence m the 

University of Oxford. 

COLONIES AND DEPENDENCIES.— L INDIA. ByJ. S. 

arrrox M A, late Fellow of Queen's College, O.xford. IL THE COLONIES. 
By E. J. Payne, M.A., Fellow of University College, Oxford. 

JUSTICE AND POLICE. By F. W. Maitland. 

In Preparation : — 

THE PENAL SYSTEM. By Sir Edmund Du Cane, K.C.B. 

THE NATIONAL DEFENCES. By Lieut.-Colonel Maurice, R.A. 



:: KICHARU CLAY AND bUNS, FKlNTEUS. 


