About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/albertnyanzagr00bake

--------------------------------------

THE 


ALBERT N'YANZA, 

GREAT BASIN OF THE NILE, 

AND

EXPLORATIONS OF THE NILE SOURCES. 


BY 

SAMUEL WHITE BAKER, M.A. F.R.G.S. 

GOLD MEDALLIST OF THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY. 


WITH MAPS, ILLUSTRATIONS , AND PORTRAITS. 


IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. I. 


London: 

MACMILLAN AND CO. 

1866 , 


Right of Translation reserved. 


LONDON 

R. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, 
BREAD STREET HILL. 


or 

if? 

Mb ¦ 

V* I 

s cA/tf/ee 

®o Per fltcrst (Sr^mus ©njcstij 
THE QUEEN 

I DEDICATE, WITH HER PERMISSION, 

THIS BOOK, 

CONTAINING THE STORY OF THE DISCOVERY OF THE GREAT LAKE 
FROM WHICH THE NILE ULTIMATELY FLOWS, 

AND WHICH, 

AS CONNECTED SO INTIMATELY, 

AS A NILE SOURCE, WITH THE VICTORIA LAKE, 
I HAVE VENTURED TO NAME 

''THE ALBERT N'YANZA ," 

IN MEMORY OF THE LATE ILLUSTRIOUS AND LAMENTED 

PRINCE CONSORT. 


b 













THE ALBERT J^YANZA 


: 

















































































































PREFACE. 


In the history of the Nile there was a void : its 
Sources were a mystery. The Ancients devoted much 
attention to this problem ; but in vain. The Emperor 
Nero sent an expedition under the command of two 
centurions, as described by Seneca. Even Roman 
energy failed to break the spell that guarded these 
secret fountains. The expedition sent by Mehemet 
Ali Pasha, the celebrated Viceroy of Egypt, closed a 
long term of unsuccessful search. 

The work has now been accomplished. Three 
English parties, and only three, have at various periods 
started upon this obscure mission: each has gained 
its end. 

Bruce won the source of the Blue Nile; Speke and 

b 2 


Vlll 


PREFACE. 


Grant won the Victoria source of the great White 
Nile; and I have been permitted to succeed in com¬ 
pleting the Nile Sources by the discovery of the 
great reservoir of the equatorial waters, the Albert 
N'yanza, from which the river issues as the entire 
White Nile. 

Having thus completed the work after nearly five 
years passed in Africa, there still remains a task before 
me. I must take the reader of these volumes by the 
hand, and lead him step by step along my rough path 
from the beginning to the end; through scorching 
deserts and thirsty sands; through swamp, and jungle, 
and interminable morass; through difficulties, fatigues, 
and sickness, until I bring him, faint with the wearying 
journey, to that high cliff where the great prize shall 
burst "upon his view—from which he shall look down 
upon the vast Albert Lake, and drink with me from 
the Sources of the Nile ! 

I have written " he ! " How can I lead the more 
tender sex through dangers and fatigues, and passages 
of savage life ? A veil shall be thrown over many 
scenes of brutality that I was forced to witness, but 


PREFACE. 


IX 


which I will not force upon the reader; neither will I 
intrude anything that is not actually necessary in the 
description of scenes that unfortunately must be passed 
through in the journey now before us. Should any¬ 
thing offend the sensitive mind, and suggest the unfit¬ 
ness of the situation for a woman's presence, I must 
beseech my fair readers to reflect, that the pilgrim's 
wife followed him, weary and footsore, through all his 
difficulties, led, not by choice, but by devotion; and 
that in times of misery and sickness her tender care 
saved his life and prospered the expedition. 

" 0 woman, in our liours of ease 
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, 

And variable as the shade 

By the light quivering aspen made j 

When pain and anguish wring the brow, 

A ministering angel thou ! " 

In the journey now before us I must request some 
exercise of patience during geographical details that 
may be wearisome; at all events, I will adhere to facts, 
and avoid theory as much as possible. 

The Botanist will have ample opportunities of stray-' 


X 


PREFACE. 


ing from our path to examine plants with which I 
confess a limited acquaintance. The Ethnologist shall 
have precisely the same experience that I enjoyed, and 
he may either be enlightened or confounded. The 
Geologist will find himself throughout the journey in 
Central Africa among primitive rocks. The Naturalist 
will travel through a grass jungle that conceals much 
that is difficult to obtain : both he and the Sportsman 
will, I trust, accompany me on a future occasion 
through the " Nile tributaries from Abyssinia," which 
country is prolific in all that is interesting. The 
Philanthropist,—what shall I promise to induce him to 
¦accompany me ? I will exhibit a picture of savage 
man precisely as he is; as I saw him ; and as I judged 
him, free from prejudice : painting also, in true colours, 
a picture of the abomination that has been the curse 
of the African race, the slave trade; trusting that 
not only the philanthropist, but every civilized being 
will join in the endeavour to erase that stain from 
disfigured human nature, and thus open the path 
now closed to civilization and missionary enterprise. 
To the Missionary,—that noble, self-exiled labourer 


PREFACE. 


xi 


toiling too often in a barren field,—I must add tlie 
word of caution, "Wait!" There can be no hope 
-of success until the slave trade shall have ceased to 
-exist. 

The journey is long, the countries savage; there 
•tire no ancient histories to charm the present with 
memories of the past; all is wild and brutal, hard 
¦and unfeeling, devoid of that holy instinct instilled by 
nature into the heart of man—the belief in a Supreme 
Being. In that remote wilderness in Central Equa¬ 
torial Africa are the Sources of the Nile. 




CONTENTS OF VOL. I. 


Introduction . 


TACK 

xxi 


CHAPTER I. 

THE EXPEDITION. 

Programme— Start from Cairo—Arrive at Berber—Plan of Ex¬ 
ploration—The River Atbara—Abyssinian Affluents—Character 
of Rivers—Causes of Rile Inundations—Violence of the Rains 
—Arrival at Khartoum—Description of Khartoum—Egyptian 
Authorities—Taxes—The Soudan—Slave-Trade of the Soudan 
—Slave-Trade of the White Kile—System of Operations— 
Inhuman Proceedings—Negro Allies—Revelations of Slave- 
Trade—Distant Slave Markets —Prospects of the Expedition— 
Difficulties at the Outset—Opposition of the Egyptian Autho¬ 
rities—Preparations for Sailing—Johann Schmidt—Demand 
for Poll-Tax—Collision before starting—Amiable Boy - ! —The 
Departure—The Boy Osman—Banks of White Nile—Change 
in Disposition of Men—Character of the River—Misery of 
Scene—River Vegetation—AmbatchWood—Johann's Sickness 
—Uses of Eish-skin—Johann dying—Johann's Death—New 
Year—Shillook Villages—The Sobat River—Its Character— 
Bahr Giraffe—Bahr el Gazal—Observations—Corporal Richarn 
—Character of Bahr el Gazal-—Peculiarity of River Sobat— 
Tediousness of Voyage—Bull Buffalo—Sali Achmet killed— 
His Burial—Eerocity of the Buffalo—"The Clumsy" on the 



XIV 


CONTENTS. 


Styx— Current of Wliite Nile — First View of Natives — 
Joctian and his Wife—Charming Husband—Natron—Catch a 
Hippopotamus—" Perhaps it was his Uncle'"—Eeal Turtle in 
Mock Hippopotamus—Hicham reduced to the Hanks—Arrival 
at the Zareeba—Fish Spearing—The Kytcli Tribe—White Ant 
Towers—Starvation in the Kytcli Country—Destitution of the 
Natives—The Bull of the Flerd—Men and Beasts in a bad 
Temper—Aboukooka—Austrian Mission Station—Sale of the 
Mission-House — Melancholy Fate of Baron Harnier — The 
Aliab Tribes—Tumuli of Ashes—The Shir Tribe—The Lotus 
Harvest—Arrival at Gondokoro—Discharge Cargo. Page 1—86 


CHAPTER II. 

BAD RECEPTION AT GONDOKORO. 

Reports of Speke and Grant—The Bari Tribe—Description of the 
Natives—Effects of poisoned Arrows—Hostility of the Bari 
Tribe—Atrocities of the trading Parties—Lawlessness at Gon¬ 
dokoro—A Boy shot—The first Mutiny—Decision of my 
Wife—The Khartoum Escort—Arrival of Speke and Grant— 
Gladness at meeting them—Their Appearance—Speke and 
Grant's Discoveries—Another Lake reported to exist—Speke's 
Instructions—Arrange to explore the Luta N'zige—Scarcity at 
Gondokoro—Speke and Grant depart to Khartoum. 

Page 87—110 


CHAPTER III. 

GUN ACCIDENT. 

Gun Accident—Birds ruin the Donkeys—Arrangement with 
Mahommed—His Duplicity—Plot to obstruct my Advance 
—The Boy Saat—History of Saat—First Introduction ta 


CONTENTS . 


XV 


*'Saat—Turned out "by Mistake—Saat's Character—Some thing 
brewing—Mutiny of Escort—Preparation for the worst— 
Disarm the Mutineers—Mahommed's Desertion—Arrangement 
with Koorshid Aga—The last Hope gone—Expedition ruined 
—Eesolution to advance—Hicham faithful — Bari Chief's 
Deport—Parley with Mutineers—Conspiracy again—Eight 
Visit of Fadeela—" Quid pro Quo"—"Adda," the Latooka—• 
Arrange to start for Latooka—Threats of Kooshid's People— 
Determination to proceed—Start from Gondokoro—My own 
Guide. Page 111—142 

CHAPTEE IV. 

FIRST NIGHT'S MARCH. 

Ilivouacking—Arrival at Belignan—Attempts at Conciliation— 
I shame my Men—The March—Advantages of Donkeys 
—Advice for Travellers—Want of Water—A forced March— 
Its Difficulties—Delays on the Eoad—Cleverness of the 
Donkeys—Party dead-beat—Improvidence of Monkey—We 
¦obtain Water—Native Tit-Bits—Surrounded by Natives — 
Gross-Examination—Eecognition of the Chief—'Interest of 
Natives—The Monkey Wallady—We leave Tollogo—The 
Ellyria Pass—A Pace for Ellyria—Ellyrian Villages palisaded 
—Outmarched by the Turks—Ibrahim and liis Men—Attempt 
;at Eeconciliation—Diplomacy—Peace established—Arrive at 
Ellyria—Legge, the Chief of Ellyria—Presents to Ibrahim— 
Legge's Intemperance—Violent Storm—No Supplies—-Forma¬ 
tion of Skulls .. Page 143—180 


CHAPTEE V. 

LEAVE ELLYRIA. 


We leave Ellyria—Brutality towards the Women—Order of 
March—Bellaal—Drainage towards the Sobat—Game at 




XY1 


CONTENTS. 


Wakkala—Deliglitful Scenery—Latooka Thieves—Stalking 
Antelopes—Cliase after Waterbuck—Good Service of Bifle—• 
The Turks' Salute—Treacherous Welcome—Mahommed Her— 
Quarrelling among the Traders—The Latooka Mutiny—Bettle 
the Ringleader—Stop the Mutiny—I pursue a Fugitive, and 
interpose on his behalf—Held in some Estimation—Desertion 
of Men—The Natives of Latooka—Their probable Origin— 
Tribes hard to distinguish—Tarrangolle—Native Architecture— 
Exhumation of the Dead—Coiffure of Natives—Hair Helmets- 
of Latooka—Fighting Bracelets—The Latooka Women—The 
Chief's Introduction—" Moy " and his Ladies—Bokke proposes 
to improve Mrs. Baker—Bokke and Daughter—Extraction of 
the front Teeth—The Value of Wives—Cows of more value 
than Women—Destruction of Mahommed ILer's People—Death 
of my Deserters—My Prophecy realized—Apprehensive of an 
Attack—The Turks insult the Women—Ill Conduct of the 
Turks—Well done, Bokke !—Results of the Turks' Misconduct 
—Interview with Commoro—Awkward Position—The Latooka 
War Signal—Preparations for Defence—We await the Attack— 
Parley—Too " wide awake"—Camp at Tarrangolle—Scarcity 
in View of Plenty—Wild Duck Shooting—The Crested Crane, 
&c.—Adda's Proposal—Obtuseness of Natives—Degraded State 
of Natives.. Page 181—242 


CHAPTER VI. 

THE FUNERAL DANCE. 

A Funeral Dance—Bari Interpreters—Commoro, the Lion—Con¬ 
versation with Commoro—" Where will the Spirit live % — 
" Good and bad all die "—Failure of the religious Argument— 
Further Conversation — The Camel poisoned — Habits of the 
Camel—Camel's peculiar Constitution—The Hygeen, or riding 
Dromedary—Loss of Camel a Misfortune—Dirty Donkeys. 

Page 243—25T 



CONTENTS. 


xvn 


CHAPTER VII. 

LATOOKA. 


Herds of tlie Latookas and Game—Storm—Effects of Rain upon 
Natives—Native Blacksmiths—Tlieir Tools—Elephants—Ele¬ 
phant Hunt—Tetel, my old Hunter—Charged by a herd of Ele¬ 
phants—Cowardly Followers—Track the wounded Elephant— 
Nearly caught — T6tel distressed — Return to Camp—African 
and Indian Elephants—Height of Elephants—Food of Elephants 
—African and Ceylon Elephants—Difference in Formation of 
Brain—Rifles and Bullets for heavy Game—Character of 
Country and its Sports—The " Baby. "—Method of killing 
Elephants — Elephant Pitfalls—Circling them with Eire —* 
Native Hunting-—The Bagara Hunters—Danger of Elephant 
Hunting. Page 258—286 


CHAPTER Till. 
ibrahim's return. 

The African Black—Comparison between Whites and Blacks— 
Varieties in Creation—The Negro—Character of the Negro—Ori¬ 
ginated African Slave System—Indisposition to Work—Negro 
Slave Plunters—Ibrakimawa; or, Sinbad the Sailor—Makkarika 
Cannibals—My daily Employments—Quarrels with the Latookas 
—Parley with Latooka Chiefs—The Latookas seize a Gun— 
Helplessness in an Advance—Hope to the South—Journey to 
Obbo—Uncomfortable Night—Enter the Mountains—Beautiful 
Scenery—Arrive at Obbo—Natives of Obbo—Butter Nuts and 
Fruits — Pottery and Utensils — Natural Features of Obbo— 
Katchiba, Chief of Obbo—Entertained with a Dance—Women 
of Obbo — Languages of Tribes — Katchiba's Diplomacy — 
Ivatchiba " always at Home "—Family Government—The great 
Magician—Reconnaissance to the South—Mrs. Baker's Dwelling 
—An Upset — Loss of Filfil—-My Bivouac — Ceremony of 



xviii 


CONTENTS. 


Welcome at Farajoke—Elevated-Country at Farajoke—Stopped 
by the Asua—Eeturn to Ohbo—Gallantry of Katchiba—Katchiba 
determines to ride—First Attempts at Horsemanship—Becover 
the lost Horse—Ceremony at parting with Katchiba—Beturn 
to Latooka—Discovery of supposed Yams—Beware of Botanists- 
—Baboons—The Maharif Antelope—The Giraffe—Hunting 
Giraffes—Unsuccessful Hunt—Benighted—Begain the Party— 
Bread-baking on the March — Sickness; Small-Pox — Wank 
the Interpreter — First Clue to the Lake — Brown Men 
are called White . Page 287—350 


CHAPTEB IX. 

THE TURKS ATTACK KAYALA. 

The "Pleasant Bobber" killed—Division of the Spoil—Discord! 
among the Natives—The Life of Women spared in War— 
Scarcity of Salt among the Latookas—Another Cause of Alarms 
—The Turks murder a Native—Country disturbed—G ood Sport 
—Two Thieves — Ibrahimawa's Beminiscences of England — 
Party recalled to Obbo—White Ants—Destructiveness of Birds- 
— Cattle Stealers at Night—A Thief shot—My Wife ill 
with Fever—March to Obbo—Great Puff Adder—Poison Fangs- 
of Snakes—Violent Storm—Arrive again at Obbo—Hostility 
caused by the Turks—The M.D. attends us—Death of " Mouse"' 
—Marauding Expedition—Saat becomes scientific—Saat and 
Gaddum Her—Will England suppress the Slave-Trade?—Filthy 
Customs of the Natives—The Egyptian Scarabseus—Bacheeta., 
the Unyoro Slave—Intelligence of the Lake—Its probable- 
Commercial Advantages—Commerce with the Interior—Obbo- 
the Clothing Frontier—Death of my last Camel—Excellent 
Species of Gourd—A Morning Call in Obbo—Katckiba's Musical 
Accomplishments — Loss of remaining Donkey—"Coming. 
Events," &c.—Fever—Symptoms—Dismal Prospect. 

Page 351—39-5> 




LIST OF ILLUSTKATIONS OF YOL. I. 


PACK' 

Portrait of Mr. and Mrs. Baker. Frontispiece.. 

Map of Ponte. To face vii 

General Map of Country, Nile Basin. To face xxi 

Arms and Instruments of various Tribes.xxxii 

Nuehr Natives coming to the Boats.. 61 

Joctian, Chief of the Nuehr Tribe . 64- 

Chief of Kytch and Daughter ..71 

Starving Boy of Kytch Tribe begging. 7 2 

The Boys who have begged . 74 

A Homestead of the Bari Tribe—The usual Attitude of the 

Men. To face 90 

Legg6 the Chief.175 

Latooka Blacksmiths .. 205- 

Commoro running to the Fight ..212 

Bokkd—Wife of Moy, Chief of Latooka.210 

Drake's Head.237 

Crimson-headed Spur-winged Goose. .240 

The Latooka Funeral Dance. To face 244 

The last Charge .. To face 269 



















XX 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


PAGE 

Head-dress of Obbo (1) and Shoggo (2).310 

Women of Obbo.. ..315 

Katchiba's eldest Son.320 

Katchiba and liis Hebe on a Journey.333 

Overhauling the Giraffes. To face 341 

The Obbo War Dance. To face 377 












London & Cambridge : Macmillan. & Co. 














































INTRODUCTION. 


The primary object of geographical exploration is the 
opening to general intercourse such portions of the 
earth as may become serviceable to the human race. 
The explorer is the precursor of the colonist; and the 
colonist is the human instrument by which the great 
work must be constructed—that greatest and most 
difficult of all undertakings—the civilization of the 
world. 

The progress of civilization depends upon geogra¬ 
phical position. The surface of the earth presents 
certain facilities and obstacles to general access ; those 
points that are easily attainable must always enjoy a 
superior civilization to those that are remote from 
association with the world. 

We may thus assume that the advance of civilization 
is dependent upon facility of transport. Countries 
naturally excluded from communication may, through 


XXII 


INTRODUCTION. 


the ingenuity of man, be rendered accessible; the 
natural productions of those lands may be transported 
to the sea-coast in exchange for foreign commodities; 
and commerce, thus instituted, becomes the pioneer of 
civilization. 

England, the great chief of the commercial world, 
possesses a power that enforces a grave responsibility. 
She has the force to civilize. She is the natural colo¬ 
nizer of the world. In the short space of three cen¬ 
turies, America, sprung from her loins, has become a 
giant offspring, a new era in the history of the human 
race, a new birth whose future must be overwhelming. 
Of later date, and still more rapid in development, 
Australia rises, a triumphant proof of England's power 
to rescue wild lands from barrenness ; to wrest from 
utter savagedom those mighty tracts of the earth's 
surface wasted from the creation of the world,—a 
darkness to be enlightened by English colonization. 
Before the advancing steps of civilization the savage 
inhabitants of dreary wastes retreated : regions hitherto 
lain hidden, and counting as nothing in the world's 
great total, have risen to take the lead in the world's 
great future. 


INTRODUCTION. 


xxm 


Tims England's seed cast upon the earth's surface 
germinates upon soils destined to reproduce her race. 
The energy and industry of the mother country become 
the natural instincts of her descendants in localities 
adapted for their development; and wherever Nature 
has endowed a land with agricultural capabilities, and 
favourable geographical position, slowly but surely 
that land will become a centre of civilization. 

True Christianity cannot exist apart from civiliza¬ 
tion ; thus, the spread of Christianity must depend 
upon the extension of civilization ; and that exten¬ 
sion depends upon commerce. 

The philanthropist and the missionary will expend 
their noble energies in vain in struggling against the 
obtuseness of savage hordes, until the first steps towards 
their gradual enlightenment shall have been made by 
commerce. The savage must learn to want; he must 
learn to be ambitious; and to covet more than the 
mere animal necessities of food and drink. This can 
alone be taught by a communication with civilized 
beings : the sight of men well clothed will induce the 
naked savage to covet clothing, and will create a 
want; the supply of this demand will be the first 


XXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


step towards commerce. To obtain the supply, the 
savage must produce some article in return as a me¬ 
dium of barter, some natural production of his country 
adapted to the trader s wants. His wants will increase 
as his ideas expand by communication with Europeans: 
thus, his productions must increase in due proportion, 
and. he must become industrious; industry being the 
first grand stride towards civilization. 

The natural energy of all countries is influenced by 
climate; and civilization being dependent upon indus¬ 
try, or energy, must accordingly vary in its degrees 
according to geographical position. The natives of 
tropical countries do not progress : enervated by in¬ 
tense heat, they incline rather to repose and amuse¬ 
ment than to labour. Free from the rigour of winters, 
and the excitement of changes in the seasons, the 
native character assumes the monotony of their coun¬ 
try's temperature. They have no natural difficulties 
to contend with,—no struggle with adverse storms and 
icy winds and frost-bound soil; but an everlasting 
summer, and fertile ground producing with little tillage, 
excite no enterprise ; and the human mind, unexercised 
by difficulties, sinks into languor and decay. There are 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXV 


a lack of industry, a want of intensity of character, 
a love of ease and luxury, which leads to a devotion 
to sensuality,—to a plurality of wives, which lowers 
the character and position of woman. Woman, reduced 
to that false position, ceases to exercise her proper influ¬ 
ence upon man ; she becomes the mere slave of passion, 
and, instead of holding her sphere as the emblem of 
civilization, she becomes its barrier. The absence of 
real love, engendered by a plurality of wives, is an 
absolute bar to progress; and so long as polygamy 
exists, an extension of civilization is impossible. In 
all tropical countries polygamy is the prevailing evil: 
this is the greatest obstacle to Christianity. The Mahom- 
medan religion, planned carefully for Eastern habits, 
allowed a plurality of wives, and prospered. The 
savage can be taught the existence of a Deity, and 
become a Mussulman; but to him the hateful law of 
fidelity to one wife is ,a bar to Christianity. Thus, in 
tropical climates there will always be a slower advance 
of civilization than in more temperate zones. 

The highest civilization was originally confined to 
the small portion of the globe comprised between 
Persia, Egypt, Greece, and Italy. In those countries 


XXVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


was concentrated the world's earliest history; and 
although changed in special importance, they preserve 
their geographical significance to the present day. 

The power and intelligence of man will have their 
highest development within certain latitudes, and 
the natural passions and characters of races will be 
governed by locality and the temperature of climate. 

There are certain attractions in localities that induce 
first settlements of man; even as peculiar conditions 
of country attract both birds and animals. The first 
want of man and beast is food : thus fertile soil and 
abundant pasture, combined with good climate and 
water communication, always ensure the settlement 
of man ; while natural seed-bearing grasses, forests, 
and prairies attract both birds and beasts. The earth 
offers special advantages in various positions to both 
man and beast; and such localities are, with few excep¬ 
tions, naturally inhabited. From the earliest creation 
there have been spots so peculiarly favoured by nature, 
by geographical position, climate, and fertility, that 
man has striven for their occupation, and they have 
become scenes of contention for possession. Such coun¬ 
tries have had a powerful influence in the worlds 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXVll 


history, and such will be the great pulses of civili¬ 
zation,—the sources from which in a future, how¬ 
ever distant, will flow the civilization of the world. 
Egypt is the land whose peculiar capabilities have 
thus attracted the desires of conquest, and with whom 
the world's earliest history is intimately connected. 

Egypt has been an extraordinary instance of the 
actual formation of a country by alluvial deposit; it 
has been created by a single river. The great Sahara, 
that frightful desert of interminable scorching sand, 
stretching from the Red Sea to the Atlantic, is cleft by 
one solitary thread of water. Ages before man could 
have existed im that inhospitable land, that thread of 
water was at its silent work : through countless years 
it flooded and fell, depositing a rich legacy of soil upon 
the barren sand until the delta was created; and man, 
at so remote a period that we have no clue to an 
approximate date, occupied the fertile soil thus born of 
the river Nile, and that corner of savage Africa, rescued 
from its barrenness, became Egypt, and took the first 
rank in the earth's history. 

For that extraordinary land the world has ever 
contended, and will yet contend. 


INTRODUCTION. 


xxviii 

From the Persian conquest to the present day, 
although the scene of continual strife, Egypt has been 
an example of almost uninterrupted productiveness. Its 
geographical position afforded peculiar advantages for 
commercial enterprise. Bounded on the east by the Red 
Sea, on the north by the Mediterranean, while the 
fertilizing Nile afforded inland communication, Egypt 
became the most prosperous and civilized country of 
the earth. Egypt was not only created by the Nile, 
but the very existence of its inhabitants depended upon 
the annual inundation of that river : thus all that 
related to the Nile was of vital importance to the 
people ; it was the hand that fed them. 

Egypt depending so entirely upon the river, it was 
natural that the origin of those mysterious waters 
should have absorbed the attention of thinking men. It 

O 

was unlike all other rivers. In July and August, when 
European streams were at their lowest in the summer 
heat, the Nile was at the flood! In Egypt there 
was no rainfall—not even a drop of dew in those 
parched deserts through which, for 860 miles of lati¬ 
tude, the glorious river flowed without a tributary. 
Licked up by the burning sun, and gulped by the 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXIX 


exhausting sand of Nubian deserts, supporting all 
losses by evaporation and absorption, the noble flood 
shed its annual blessings upon Egypt. An anomaly 
among rivers; flooding in the driest season; ever¬ 
lasting in sandy deserts ; where was its hidden origin ? 
where were the sources of the Nile ? 

This was from the earliest period the great geogra¬ 
phical question to be solved. 

In the advanced stage of civilization of the present 
era, we look with regret at the possession by the 
Moslem of the fairest portions of the world,—of countries 
so favoured by climate and by geographical position, 
that, in the early days of the earth's history, they were 
the spots most coveted; and that such favoured places 
should, through the Moslem rule, be barred from the 
advancement that has attended lands less adapted by 
nature for development. There are no countries of 
the earth so valuable, or that would occupy so "im¬ 
portant a position in the family of nations, as Turkey 
in Europe, Asia Minor, and Egypt, under a civilized 
and Christian government. 

As the great highway to India, Egypt is the most 
interesting country to the English. The extraordinary 

d 


XXX 


INTRODUCTION. 


fertility being cine entirely to the Nile, I trust that I 
may have added my mite to the treasury of scientific 
knowledge by completing the discovery of the sources 
of that wonderful river, and thereby to have opened a 
way to the heart of Africa, which, though dark in 
our limited perspective, may, at some future period, 
be the path to civilization. 

I offer to the world my narrative of many years of 
hardships and difficulties, happily not vainly spent in 
this great enterprise : should some un-ambitious spirits 
reflect, that the results are hardly worth the sacrifice of 
the best years of life thus devoted to exile and suffer¬ 
ing, let them remember that " we are placed on earth 
for a certain period, to fulfil according to our several 
conditions and degrees of mind, those duties by which 
the earth's history is carried on." * 


* E. L. Bulwer's "Life, Literature, and Manners/' 





ARMS AND INSTRUMENTS OF VARIOUS TRIBES. 






























































THE 


ALBEBT N'YANZA. 


CHAPTER I. 

THE EXPEDITION. 

In March, 1861 , I commenced an expedition to 
discover the sources of the Nile, with the hope of 
meeting the East African expedition of Captains Speke 
and Grant, that had been sent by the English Govern¬ 
ment from the South, vid Zanzibar, for that object. I 
had not the presumption to publish my intention, as 
the sources of the Nile had hitherto defied all ex¬ 
plorers, but I had inwardly determined to accomplish 
this difficult task or to die in the attempt. From my 
youth I had been inured to hardships and endurance 
in wild sports in tropical climates, and when I gazed 
upon the map of Africa I had a wild hope, mingled 
with humility, that, even as the insignificant worm 
bores through the hardest oak, I might by perseverance 
reach the heart of Africa. 

VOL. I. B 


2 


PROGRAMME. 


[chap. I. 


I could not conceive that anything in this world 
had power to resist a determined will, so long as 
health and life remained. The failure of every former 
attempt to reach the Nile source did not astonish me, 
as the expeditions had consisted of parties, which, 
when difficulties occur, generally end in difference of 
opinion and retreat: I therefore determined to pro¬ 
ceed alone, trusting in the guidance of a Divine Pro¬ 
vidence and the good fortune that sometimes attends 
a tenacity of purpose. I weighed carefully the chances 
of the undertaking. Before me—untrodden Africa; 
against me—the obstacles that had defeated the world 
since its creation; on my side—a somewhat tough 
constitution, perfect independence, a long experience 
in savage life, and both time and means which I in¬ 
tended to devote to the object without limit. England 
had never sent an expedition to the Nile sources pre¬ 
vious to that under the command of Speke and Grant. 
Bruce, ninety years ago, had succeeded in tracing the 
source of the Blue or Lesser Nile : thus the honour of 
that discovery belonged to Great Britain; Speke was 
on his road from the South; and I felt confident that 
my gallant friend would leave his bones upon the 
path rather than submit to failure. I trusted that 
England would not be beaten; and although I hardly 
dared to hope that I could succeed where others 


chap, i.] START FROM CAIRO . 3 

greater than I had failed, I determined to sacrifice all 
in the attempt. Had I been alone it would have been 
no hard lot to die upon the untrodden path before me, 
but there was one who, although my greatest comfort, 
was also my greatest care; one whose life yet dawned 
at so early an age that womanhood was still a future. 
I shuddered at the prospect for her, should she be left 
alone in savage lands at my death; and gladly would 
I have left her in the luxuries of home instead of 
exposing her to the miseries of Africa. It was in vain 
that I implored her to remain, and that I painted the 
difficulties and perils still blacker than I supposed they 
really would be : she was resolved, with woman s con¬ 
stancy and devotion, to share all dangers and to follow 
me through each rough footstep of the wild life before 
me. "And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, 
or to return from following after thee : for whither 
thou goest I will go, and where thou lodgest I will 
lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God 
my God: where thon diest will I die, and there will 
I be buried : the Lord do so to me and more also, if 
aught but death part thee and me/' 

Thus accompanied by my wife, on the 15th April, 
1861, I sailed up the Nile from Cairo. The wind blew 
fair and strong from the north, and we flew towards 
the south against the stream, watching those myste- 


4 


ARM PE AT BERBER . 


[chap. i. 


rious waters with a firm resolve to track them to their 
distant fountain. 

On arrival at Korosko in lat. 22° 44' in twenty-six 
days from Cairo we started across the Nubian desert, 
thus cutting off the western bend of the Nile, and in 
seven days' forced camel march we again reached the 
river at Abou HamecL The journey through that desert 
is most fatiguing, as the march averages fifteen hours 
a day through a wilderness of scorching sand and 
glowing basalt rocks. The simoom was in full force 
at that season (May), and the thermometer, placed in 
the shade by the water skins, stood at 114° Fahr. 

No drinkable water was procurable on the route: 
thus our supply was nearly expended upon reaching 
the welcome Nile. After eight days' march on the 
margin of the river from Aboil Hamed through desert, 
but in view of the palm trees that bordered the 
river, we arrived at Berber, a considerable town in 
lat. 17° 58' on the banks of the Nile. 

Berber is eight days' camel march from Khartoum 
(at the junction of the White and Blue Niles, in lat. 
15° 30), and is the regular caravan route between 
that town and Cairo. 

From the slight experience I had gained in the 
journey to Berber, I felt convinced that success in my 
Nile expedition would be impossible without a know- 


CHAP. I.] 


PLAN OF EXPLORATION 


5 


ledge of Arabic. My dragoman bad me completely 
in bis power, and I resolved to become independent 
of all interpreters as soon as possible. I therefore 
arranged a plan of exploration for the first year to 
embrace the affluents to the Nile from the Abyssinian 
range of mountains, intending to follow up the Atbara 
river from its junction with the Nile in lat. 17° 37' 
(twenty miles south of Berber), and to examine all 
the Nile tributaries from the south-east as far as 
the Blue Nile, which river I hoped ultimately to 
descend to Khartoum. I imagined that twelve months 
would be sufficient to complete such an exploration, 
by which time I should have gained a sufficient know¬ 
ledge of Arabic to enable me to start from Khartoum 
for my White Nile expedition. Accordingly I left 
Berber on the 11th June, 1861, and arrived at the 
Atbara junction with the Nile on the 13th. 

There is no portion of the Nile so great in its 
volume as that part situated at the Atbara junction. 
The river Atbara is about 450 yards in average width, 
and from twenty-five to thirty feet deep during the 
rainy season. It brings down the entire drainage of 
Eastern Abyssinia, receiving as affluents into its main 
stream the great rivers Taceazy (or Settite), in addi¬ 
tion to the Salaam and Angrab. The junction of the 
Atbara in lat. 17° 37' N. is thus, in a direct line from 


TIIE RIVER ATBARA. 


[chap. I. 


() 

Alexandria, about 840 geographical miles of latitude, 
and, including the westerly bend of the Nile, its bed 
will be about eleven hundred miles in length, from 
the mouth of its last tributary the Atbara until it 
meets the sea. Thus, eleven hundred miles of absorp¬ 
tion and evaporation through sandy deserts and the 
delta must be sustained by the river between the 
Atbara junction and the Mediterranean: accordingly 
there is an immense loss of water ; and the grandest 
volume of the Nile must be just below the Atbara 
junction. 

It is not my intention in the present work to enter 
into the details of my first year's exploration on the 
Abyssinian frontier ; that being so extensive and so 
completely isolated from the grand White Nile expedi¬ 
tion, that an amalgamation of the two would create 
confusion. I shall therefore reserve the exploration of 
the Abyssinian tributaries for a future publication, and 
confine my present description of the Abyssinian rivers 
to a general outline of the Atbara and Blue Nile, 
showing the origin of their floods and their effect upon 
the inundations in Lower Egypt. 

I followed the banks of the Atbara to the junction 
of the Settite or Taccazy river: I then followed the 
latter grand stream into the Abyssinian mountains in 
the Base country. From thence I crossed over to the 


CHAP. I.] 


ABYSSINIAN AFFLUENTS. 


7 


rivers Salaam and Angrab, at the foot of the magnificent 
range of mountains from which they flow direct into 
the Atbara. Having explored those rivers I passed 
through an extensive and beautiful tract of country 
forming a portion of Abyssinia on the south bank of 
the river Salaam; and again crossing the Atbara, I 
arrived at the frontier town of Gellabat; known by 
Bruce as "Bas el Feel" Marching due west from that 
point I arrived at the river Kahad in about lat. 12° 30'; 
descending its banks I crossed over a narrow strip of 
country to the west, arriving at the river Dinder, and 
following these streams to their junction with the Blue 
Nile, I descended that grand river to Khartoum, having 
been exactly twelve months from the day I had left 
Berber. 

The whole of the above-mentioned rivers, i.e. the 
Atbara, Settite, Salaam, Angrab, Rahad, Dinder, 
and Blue Nile, are the great drains of Abyssinia, all 
having a uniform course from south-east to north¬ 
west, and meeting the main Nile in two mouths; by 
the Blue Nile at Khartoum, 15° 30', and by the Atbara, 
in lat. 17° 3 7'. The Blue Nile during the dry season 
is so reduced that there is not sufficient water for the 
small vessels engaged in transporting produce from 

Sennaar to Khartoum ; at that time the water is beau- 

/ 

tifully clear, and, reflecting the cloudless sky, its colour 


8 CHARACTER OF RIVERS . [chap. i. 

lias given it the well-known name of Balir el Azrak, or 
Blue River. No water is more delicious than that of 
the Blue Nile; in great contrast to that of the White 
river, which is never clear, and has a disagreeable taste 
of vegetation. This difference in the quality of the 
waters is a distinguishing characteristic of the two 
rivers : the one, the Blue Nile, is a rapid mountain 
stream, rising and falling with great rapidity; the 
other is of lake origin, flowing through vast marshes. 
The course of the Blue Nile is through fertile soil; 
thus there is a trifling loss by absorption, and during 
the heavy rains a vast amount of earthy matter of a 
red colour is contributed by its waters to the general 
fertilizing deposit of the Nile in Lower Egypt. 

The Atbara, although so important a river in the 
rainy season of Abyssinia, is perfectly dry for several 
months during the year, and at the time I first saw it, 
June 13, 1861, it was a mere sheet of glaring sand; 
in fact a portion of the desert through which it flowed. 
For upwards of one hundred and fifty miles from its 
junction with the Nile, it is perfectly dry from the 
beginning of March to June. At intervals of a few 
miles there are pools or ponds of water left in the deep 
holes below the general average of the river's bed. In 
these pools, some of which may be a mile in length, 
are congregated all the inhabitants of the river, who as 


CHAP. I.] 


CAUSES OF NILE INUNDATIONS . 


9 


the stream disappears are forced to close quarters in 
these narrow asylums; thus, crocodiles, hippopotami, 
fish, and large turtle are crowded in extraordinary 
numbers, until the commencement of the rains in 
Abyssinia once more sets them at liberty by sending 
down a fresh volume to the river. The rainy season 
commences in Abyssinia in the middle of May, but the 
country being parched by the summer heat, the first 
rains are absorbed by the soil, and the torrents do not 
Jill until the middle of June. From June to the middle 
of September the storms are terrific ; every ravine be¬ 
comes a raging torrent; trees are rooted up by the 
mountain streams swollen above their banks, and the 
Atbara becomes a vast river, bringing down with an 
overwhelming current the total drainage of four large 
rivers—the Settite, Boyan, Salaam, and Angrab, in ad¬ 
dition to its own original volume. Its waters are dense 
with soil washed from most fertile lands far from its 
point of junction with the Nile ; masses of bamboo 
and driftwood, together with large trees, and frequently 
the dead bodies of elephants and buffaloes, are hurled 
along its muddy waters in wild confusion, bringing a 
rich harvest to the Arabs on its banks, who are ever on 
the look-out for the river s treasures of fuel and timber. 

The Blue Nile and the Atbara receiving the entire 
drainage of Abyssinia, at the same time pour their 


VIOLENCE OF THE RAINS. 


10 


[chap. I. 


floods into the main Nile in the middle of June. At 
that season the White Nile is at a considerable level, 
although not at its highest; and the sudden rush of 
water descending from Abyssinia into the main channel 
already at a fair level from the White Nile, causes the 
annual inundation in Lower Egypt. 

During the year that I passed in the northern 
portion of Abyssinia and its frontiers, the rains con¬ 
tinued with great violence for three months, the last 
shower falling on the 16th September, from which date . 
there was neither dew nor rain until the following 
May. The great rivers expended, and the mountain- 
torrents dried up; the Atbara disappeared, and once 
more became a sheet of glaring sand. The rivers 
Settite, Salaam, and Angrab, although much reduced, 
are nevertheless perennial streams, flowing into the 
Atbara from the lofty Abyssinian mountains, but the 
parched, sandy bed of the latter river absorbs the 
entire supply, nor does one drop of water reach the 
Nile from the Atbara during the dry season. The 
wonderful absorption by the sand of that river is an 
illustration of the impotence of the Blue Nile to 
contend unaided with the Nubian deserts, which, were 
it not for the steady volume of the White Nile, would 
drink every drop of water before the river could pass 
the 25th degree of latitude, 


CHAP. I.] 


ARRIVAL AT KHARTOUM . 


11 


The principal affluents of the Blue Nile are the 
Rahad and Binder, flowing, like all others, from 
Abyssinia. The Rahad is entirely dry during the 
dry season, and the Dinder is reduced to a succession 
of deep pools, divided by sandbanks, the bed of the 
river being exposed. These pools are the resort of 
numerous hippopotami and the natural inhabitants of 
the river. 

Having completed the exploration of the various 
affluents to the Nile from Abyssinia, passing through 
the Base country and the portion of Abyssinia occupied 
by Mek Nimmur, I arrived at Khartoum, the capital 
of the Soudan provinces, on the 11th June, 1862. 

Khartoum is situated in lat. 15° 29', on a point 
of land forming the angle between the White and 
Blue Niles at their junction. A more miserable,: 
filthy, and unhealthy spot can hardly be imagined. 
Far as the eye can reach, upon all sides, is a sandy 
desert. The town, chiefly composed of huts of un¬ 
burnt brick, extends over a flat hardly above the level 
of the river at high-water, and is occasionally flooded. 
Although containing about 30,000 inhabitants, and 
densely crowded, there are neither drains nor cesspools : 
the streets are redolent with inconceivable nuisances ; 
should animals die, they remain where they fall, to 
create pestilence and disgust. There are, nevertheless, 


12 


DESCRIPTION OF KHARTOUM. 


[chap. I. 


a few respectable bouses, occupied by tbe traders of 
the country, a small proportion of whom are Italians, 
French, and Germans, the European population num¬ 
bering about thirty. Greeks, Syrians, Copts, Arme¬ 
nians, Turks, Arabs, and Egyptians, form the motley 
inhabitants of Khartoum. 

There are consuls for France, Austria, and America, 
and with much pleasure I acknowledge many kind 
attentions, and assistance received from the two former, 
M. Thibaut and Herr Hansall. 

Khartoum is the seat of government, the Soudan 
provinces being under the control of a Governor- 
general, with despotic power. In 1861, there were 
about six thousand troops quartered in the town; a 
portion of these were Egyptians; other regiments were 
composed of blacks from Kordofan, and from the 
White and Blue Niles, with one regiment of Arnouts, 
and a battery of artillery. These troops are the curse 
of the country : as in the case of most Turkish and 
Egyptian officials, the receipt of pay is most irregular, 
and accordingly the soldiers are under loose discipline. 
Foraging and plunder is the business of the Egyptian 
soldier, and the miserable natives must submit to insult 
and ill-treatment at the will of the brutes who pillage 
them ad libitum. 

In 1862, Moosa Pasha was the Governor-general of 


chap, i.] EGYPTIAN AUTHORITIES. 13 

the Soudan. This man was a rather exaggerated 
specimen of Turkish authorities in general, combining 
the worst of Oriental failings with the brutality of a 
wild animal. 

During his administration the Soudan became 
utterly ruined; governed by military force, the 
revenue was unequal to the expenditure, and fresh 
taxes were levied upon the inhabitants to an extent 
that paralysed the entire country. The Turk never 
improves. There is an Arab proverb that " the grass 
never grows in the footprint of a Turk," and nothing can 
be more aptly expressive of the character of the nation 
than this simple adage. Misgovernment, monopoly, 
extortion, and oppression, are the certain accompani¬ 
ments of Turkish administration. At a great distance 
from all civilization, and separated from Lower Egypt 
by the Nubian deserts, Khartoum affords a wide field for 
the development of Egyptian official character. Every 
official plunders; the Governor-general extorts from 
all sides ; he fills his private pockets by throwing every 
conceivable obstacle in the way of progress, and embar¬ 
rasses every commercial movement in order to extort 
bribes from individuals. Following the general rule of 
his predecessors, a new governor upon arrival exhibits 
a spasmodic energy. Attended by cavasses and 
soldiers, he rides through every street of Khartoum, 



14 


EGYPTIAN AUTHORITIES. 


[chap. I. 


abusing the underlings for past neglect, ordering the 
streets to be swept, and the town to be thoroughly 
cleansed ; he visits the market-place, examines the 
quality of the bread afc the bakers' stalls, and the meat 
at the butchers'. He tests the accuracy of the weights 
and scales; fines and imprisons the impostors, and 
institutes a complete reform, concluding his sanitary 
and philanthropic arrangements by the imposition of 
some local taxes. 

The town is comparatively sweet; the bread is of 
fair weight and size, and the new governor, like a new 
broom, has swept all clean. A few weeks glide away, 
and the nose again recalls the savoury old times when 
streets were never swept, and filth once more reigns 
paramount. The town relapses into its former state, 
again the false weights usurp the place of honest 
measures, and the only permanent and visible sign of 
the new administration is the local tax. 

From the highest to the lowest official, dishonesty 
and deceit are the rule—and each robs in proportion 
to his grade in the Government employ—the onus of 
extortion falling upon the natives; thus, exorbitant 
taxes are levied upon the agriculturists, and the 
industry of the inhabitants is disheartened by oppres¬ 
sion. The taxes are collected by the soldiery, who 
naturally extort by violence an excess of the actual 


CHAP. T.] 


TAXES. 


15 


impost; accordingly the Arabs limit their cultivation 
to their bare necessities, fearing that a productive farm 
would entail an extortionate demand. The heaviest 
and most unjust tax is that upon the "sageer," or 
water-wheel, by which the farmer irrigates his other¬ 
wise barren soil. 

The erection of the sageer is the first step necessary 
to cultivation. On the borders of the river there is 
much land available for agriculture; but from an 
almost total want of rain the ground must be constantly 
irrigated by artificial means. No sooner does an enter¬ 
prising fellow erect a water-wheel, than he is taxed, 
not only for his wheel, but he brings upon himself a 
perfect curse, as the soldiers employed for the collection 
of taxes fasten upon his garden, and insist upon a 
variety of extras in the shape of butter, corn, vegetables, 
sheep, &c. for themselves, which almost ruin the pro¬ 
prietor. Any government but that of Egypt and 
Turkey would offer a bonus for the erection of irri¬ 
gating machinery that would give a stimulus to culti¬ 
vation, and multiply the produce of the country; but 
the only rule without an exception, is that of Turkish 
extortion. I have never met with any Turkish official 
who would take the slightest interest in plans for the 
improvement of the country, unless, he discovered a 
means of filling his private purse. Thus in a country 


THE SOUDAN. 


16 


[chap. I. 


where nature has been hard in her measure dealt to the 
inhabitants, they are still more reduced by oppression. 
The Arabs fly from their villages on the approach of 
the brutal tax-gatherers, driving their flocks and herds 
with them to distant countries, and leaving their 
standing crops to the mercy of the soldiery. No one 
can conceive the suffering of the country. 

The general aspect of the Soudan is that of misery; 
nor is there a single feature of attraction to recompense 
a European for the drawbacks of pestilential climate 
and brutal associations. To a stranger it appears a 
superlative folly that the Egyptian Government should 
have retained a possession, the occupation of which is 
wholly unprofitable; the receipts being far below the 
expenditure, " malgre " the increased taxation. At so 
great a distance from the sea-coast and hemmed in by 
immense deserts, there is a difficulty of transport 
that must nullify all commercial transactions on an 
extended scale. 

The great and most important article of commerce 
as an export from the Soudan, is gum arabic—this is 
produced by several species of mimosa, the finest quality 
being a product of Kordofan; the other natural pro¬ 
ductions exported are senna, hides, and ivory. All 
merchandise both to and from the Soudan must be 
transported upon camels, no other animals being 


chap, i.] , SLAVE TRADE OF THE SOUDAN. \J 

adapted to the deserts. The cataracts of the Nile 
between Assouan and Khartoum rendering the navi¬ 
gation next to impossible, the camel is the only medium 
of transport, and the uncertainty of procuring them 
without great delay is the traders greatest difficulty. 
The entire country is subject to droughts that occasion 
a total desolation, and the want of pasture entails 
starvation upon both cattle and camels, rendering it 
at certain seasons impossible to transport the pro¬ 
ductions of the country, and thus stagnating all en¬ 
terprise. Upon existing conditions the Soudan is 
worthless, having neither natural capabilities nor poli¬ 
tical importance; but there is, nevertheless, a reason 
that first prompted its occupation by the Egyptians, 
and that is in force to the present day. The Soudan 
supplies slaves. 

Without the White Nile trade Khartoum would 
almost cease to exist; and that trade is kidnapping 
and murder. The character of the Khartoumers needs 
no further comment. The amount of ivory brought 
down from the White Nile is a mere bagatelle as an 
export, the annual value being about £40,000. 

The people for the most part engaged in the ne¬ 
farious traffic of the White Nile are Syrians, Copts, 
Turks, Circassians, and some few Europeans. So 
closely connected with the difficulties of my expedition 

VOL. T. C 


18 


SLAVE TRADE OF THE WHITE NILE. [chap. i. 


is that accursed slave-trade, that the so-called ivory 
trade of the White Nile requires an explanation. 

Throughout the Soudan money is exceedingly scarce 
and the rate of interest exorbitant, varying, according 
to the securities, from thirty-six to eighty per cent.; 
this fact proves general poverty and dishonesty, and 
acts as a preventive to all improvement. So high and 
fatal a rate deters all honest enterprise, and the country 
must lie in ruin under such a system. The wild 
speculator borrows upon such terms, to rise suddenly 
like a rocket, or to fall like its exhausted stick. 
Thus, honest enterprise being impossible, dishonesty 
takes the lead, and a successful expedition to the 
White Nile is supposed to overcome all charges. There 
are two classes of White Nile traders, the one possessing 
capital, the other being penniless adventurers ; the 
same system of operations is pursued by both, but that 
of the former will be evident from the description of 
the latter. 

A man without means forms an expedition, and 
borrows money for this purpose at 100 per cent, after 
this fashion. He agrees to repay the lender in ivory 
at one-half its market value. Having obtained the 
required sum, he hires several vessels and engages from 
100 to 300 men, composed of Arabs and runaway 
villains from distant countries, who have found an 


CHAP. I.] 


SYSTEM OF OPERATIONS . 


19 


asylum from justice in the obscurity of Khartoum. 
He purchases guns and large quantities of ammunition 
for his men, together with a few hundred pounds of 
glass beads. The piratical expedition being complete, 
he pays his men five months wages in advance, at the 
rate of forty-five piastres (nine shillings) per month, 
and agrees to give them eighty piastres per month for 
any period exceeding the five months advanced. His 
men receive their advance partly in cash and partly in 
cotton stuffs for clothes at an exorbitant price. Every 
man has a strip of paper, upon which is written by the 
clerk of the expedition the amount he has received 
both in goods and money, and this paper he must 
produce at the final settlement. 

The vessels sail about December, and on arrival at 
the desired locality, the party disembark and proceed 
into the interior, until they arrive at the village of 
some negro chief, with whom they establish an inti¬ 
macy. Charmed with his new friends, the power of 
whose weapons he acknowledges, the negro chief does 
not neglect the opportunity of seeking their alliance 
to attack a hostile neighbour. Marching throughout 
the night, guided by their negro hosts, they bivouac 
within an hours march of the unsuspecting village 
doomed to an attack about half an hour before break 
of day. The time arrives, and quietly surrounding the 

C 2 


20 


INHUMAN PROCEEDINGS. 


[chap. I. 


village while its occupants are still sleeping, they fire 
the grass huts in all directions, and pour volleys of 
musketry through the flaming thatch. Panic-stricken, 
the unfortunate victims rush from their burning dwell¬ 
ings, and the men are shot down like pheasants in a 
battue, while the women and children, bewildered in 
the danger and confusion, are kidnapped and secured. 
The herds of cattle, still within their kraal or " zareeba," 
are easily disposed of, and are driven off with great 
rejoicing, as the prize of victory. The women and 
children are then fastened together, the former secured 
in an instrument called a sheba, made of a forked pole, 
the neck of the prisoner fitting into the fork, secured 
by a cross piece lashed behind, while the wrists, 
brought together in advance of the body, are tied 
to the pole. The children are then fastened by their 
necks with a rope attached to the women, and thus 
form a living chain, in which order they are marched 
to the head-quarters in company with the captured 
herds. 

This is the commencement of business : should there 
be ivory in any of the huts not destroyed by the fire, 
it is appropriated; a general plunder takes place. The 
trader s party dig up the floors of the huts to search 
for iron hoes, which are generally thus concealed, as 
the greatest treasure of the negroes; the granaries are 


CHAP. I.] 


NEGRO ALLIES. 


21 


overturned and wantonly destroyed, and the hands are 
cut off the bodies of the slain, the more easily to detach 
the copper or iron bracelets that are usually worn. 
With this booty the traders return to their negro ally: 
they have thrashed and discomfited his enemy, which 
delights him; they present him with thirty or forty 
head of cattle, which intoxicates him with joy, and a 
present of a pretty little captive girl of about fourteen 
completes his happiness. 

But business only commenced. The negro covets 
cattle, and the trader has now captured perhaps 2,000 
head. They are to be had for ivory, and shortly the 
tusks appear. Ivory is daily brought into camp in 
exchange for cattle, a tusk for a cow, according to 
size—a profitable business, as the cows have cost 
nothing. The trade proves brisk; but still there re¬ 
main some little customs to be observed—some slight 
formalities, well understood by the White Nile trade. 
The slaves and two-thirds of the captured cattle belong 
to the trader, but his men claim as their perquisite 
one-third of the stolen animals. These having been 
divided, the slaves are put up to public auction among 
the men, who purchase such as they require ; the 
amount being entered on the papers (*serki) of the 
purchasers, to be reckoned against their wages. To 
avoid the exposure, should the document fall into the 


22 


REVELATIONS OF SLAVE TRADE. 


[chap. I. 


hands of the Government or European consuls, the 
amount is not entered as for the purchase of a slave, 
but is divided for fictitious supplies—thus, should a 
slave be purchased for 1000 piastres, that amount 
would appear on the document somewhat as follows :— 


Soap .. 


Tarboasli (cap) . . . 

. ... 100 

Araki. 

. . . . 500 

Shoes. 

. ... 200 

Cotton Cloth . . . 

. ... 150 


1,000 


The slaves sold to the men are constantly being 
changed and resold among themselves ; but should 
the relatives of the kidnapped women and children 
wish to ransom them, the trader takes them from 
his men, cancels the amount of purchase, and restores 
them to their relations for a certain number of ele¬ 
phants' tusks, as may be agreed upon. Should any 
slave attempt to escape, she is punished either by 
brutal flogging, or shot or hanged, as a warning to 
others. 

An attack or razzia, such as described, generally 
leads to a quarrel with the negro ally, who in his turn 
is murdered and plundered by the trader—his women 
and children naturally becoming slaves. 

A good season for a party of a hundred and fifty 








chap, i.] DISTANT SLAVE MARKETS. 23 

men should produce about two hundred cantars 
(20,000 lbs.) of ivory, valued at Khartoum at £4,000. 
The men being paid in slaves, the wages should be 
nil, and there should be a surplus of four or five 
hundred slaves for the trader s own profit—worth on 
an average five to six pounds each. 

The boats are accordingly packed with a human 
cargo, and a portion of the trader's men accompany 
them to the Soudan, while the remainder of the party 
form a camp or settlement in the country they have 
adopted, and industriously plunder, massacre, and 
enslave, until their masters return with boats from 
Khartoum in the following season, by which time 
they are supposed to have a cargo of slaves and ivory 
ready for shipment. The business thus thoroughly 
established, the slaves are landed at various points 
within a few days' journey of Khartoum, at which 
places are agents, or purchasers, waiting to receive 
them with dollars prepared for cash payments. The 
purchasers and dealers are, for the most part, Arabs. 
The slaves are then marched across the country to 
different places; many to Sennaar, where they are 
sold to other dealers, who sell them to the Arabs 
and to the Turks. Others are taken immense dis¬ 
tances to ports on the Red Sea, Souakim, and Masowa, 
there to be shipped for Arabia and Persia. Many 


24 PROSPECTS OF THE EXPEDITION. [chap. i. 

are sent to Cairo, and in fact they are disseminated 
throughout the slave-dealing East, the White Nile 
being the great nursery for the supply. 

The amiable trader returns from the White Nile 
to Khartoum ; hands over to his creditor sufficient 
ivory to liquidate the original loan of £1,000, and, 
already a man of capital, he commences as an inde¬ 
pendent trader. 

Such was the White Nile trade when I prepared 
to start from Khartoum on my expedition to the Nile 
sources. Every one in Khartoum, with the exception 
of a few Europeans, was in favour of the slave-trade, 
and looked with jealous eyes upon a stranger ven¬ 
turing within the precincts of their holy land; a land 
sacred to slavery and to every abomination and 
villany that man can commit. 

The Turkish officials pretended to discountenance 
slavery: at the same time every house in Khartoum 
was full of slaves, and the Egyptian officers had been 
in the habit of receiving a portion of their pay in 
slaves, precisely as the men employed on the White 
Nile were paid by their employers. The Egyptian 
authorities looked upon the exploration of the White 
Nile by a European traveller as an infringement of 
their slave territory that resulted from espionage , and 
every obstacle was thrown in my way. 


chap, i.] DIFFICULTIES AT THE OUTSET. 25 

Foreseeing many difficulties, I had been supplied, 
before leaving Egypt, with a firman from H. E. Said 
Pasha the Viceroy, by the request of H. B. M. agent, 
Sir R. Colquhoun ; but this document was ignored by 
the Governor-general of the Soudan, Moosa Pasha, 
under the miserable prevarication that the firman w T as 
for the Pasha s dominions and for the Nile ; whereas 
the White Nile was not accepted as the Nile, but 
was known as the White River. I was thus refused 
boats, and in fact all assistance. 

To organize an enterprise so difficult that it had 
hitherto defeated the whole world required a careful 
selection of attendants, and I looked with despair at 
the prospect before me. The only men procurable 
for escort were the miserable cut-throats of Khartoum, 
accustomed to murder and pillage in the White Nile 
trade, and excited not by the love of adventure but 
by the desire for plunder : to start with such men 
appeared mere insanity. There was a still greater 
difficulty in connexion with the White Nile. For 
years the infernal traffic in slaves and its attendant 
horrors had existed like a pestilence in the negro 
countries, and had so exasperated the tribes, that 
people, who in former times were friendly, had become 
hostile to all comers. An exploration to the Nile 
sources was thus a march through an enemy's coun- 


26 OPPOSITION OF THE EGYPTIAN AUTHORITIES, [chap. i. 

try, and required a powerful force of well-armed men. 
For the traders there was no great difficulty, as they 
took the initiative in hostilities and had fixed camps 
as " points d'appui," but for an explorer there was no 
alternative but a direct forward march without any 
communications with the rear. I had but slight hope 
of success without assistance from the authorities in 
the shape of men accustomed to discipline; I accord¬ 
ingly wrote to the British consul at Alexandria, and 
requested him to apply for a few soldiers and boats 
to aid me in so difficult an enterprise. After some 
months' delay, owing to the great distance from 
Khartoum, I received a reply, inclosing a letter from 
Ismael Pasha (the present Viceroy), the regent during 
the absence of Said Pasha, refusing the application. 

I confess to the enjoyment of a real difficulty. 
From the first I had observed that the Egyptian 
authorities did not wish to encourage English explo¬ 
rations of the slave-producing districts, as such exami¬ 
nations would be detrimental to the traffic, and would 
lead to reports to the European governments that, 
would ultimately prohibit the trade; it was perfectly 
clear that the utmost would be done to prevent my 
expedition from starting. This opposition gave a 
piquancy to the undertaking, and I resolved that 
nothing should thwart my plans. Accordingly I set 


€IIAP. I.] 


PREPARATIONS FOR SAILING. 


27 


to work in earnest. I had taken the precaution to 
obtain an order upon the Treasury at Khartoum for 
what money I required, and as ready cash performs 
wonders in that country of credit and delay, I was 
within a few weeks ready to start. I engaged three 
vessels, including two large noggurs or sailing barges, 
and a good decked vessel with comfortable cabins, 
known by all Nile tourists as a diahbiah. 

The preparations for such a voyage are no trifles. 
I required forty-five armed men as escort, forty men as 
sailors, which, with servants, &c. raised my party to 
ninety-six. The voyage to Gondokoro, the navigable 
limit of the Nile, was reported to be from forty-five to 
fifty days from Khartoum, but provisions were neces¬ 
sary for four months, as the boatmen would return to 
Khartoum with the vessels, after landing me and piy 
party. In the hope of meeting Speke and Grant's 
party, I loaded the boats with an extra quantity of 
corn, making a total of a hundred urdeps (rather ex¬ 
ceeding 400 bushels). I had arranged the boats to 
carry twenty-one donkeys, four camels, and four 
horses; which I hoped would render me independent 
of porters, the want of transport being the great diffi¬ 
culty. The saddles, packs, and pads/ were all made 
under my own superintendance; nor was the slightest 
trifle neglected in the necessary arrangements for 


28 


JOHANN SCIIMIDT. 


[chap. 1. 


success'. In all the detail, I was much assisted by a 
most excellent man whom I had engaged to accompany 
me as my head man, a German carpenter, Johann 
Schmidt. I had formerly met him hunting on the 
banks of the Settite river, in the Base country, where 
he was purchasing living animals from the Arabs, for 
a contractor to a menagerie in Europe; he was an 
excellent sportsman, and an energetic and courageous 
fellow; perfectly sober and honest. Alas ! " the spirit 
was willing, but the flesh was weak," and a hollow 
cough, and emaciation, attended with hurried respira¬ 
tion, suggested disease of the lungs. Day after day he 
faded gradually, and I endeavoured to persuade him 
not to venture upon such a perilous journey as that 
before me : nothing would persuade him that he was 
in danger, and he had an idea that the climate of 
Khartoum was more injurious than the White Nile, 
and that the voyage would improve his health. Full 
of good feeling, and a wish to please, he persisted in 
working and perfecting the various arrangements, when 
he should have been saving his strength for a severer 
trial. Meanwhile, my preparations progressed. I had 
clothed my men all in uniform, and had armed them 
with double-barrelled guns and rifles. I had explained 
to them thoroughly the object of my journey, and that 
implicit obedience would be enforced, so long as they 





ciiAr. i.] 


DEMAND FOR POLL-TAX. 


29 


were in my service; that no plunder would be per¬ 
mitted, and that their names were to be registered at 
the public Divan before they started. They promised 
fidelity and devotion, but a greater set of scoundrels 
in physiognomy I never encountered. Each man re¬ 
ceived five months' wages in advance, and I gave them 
an entertainment with abundance to eat and drink, to 
enable them to start in good humour. 

We were just ready to start; the supplies were all on 
board, the donkeys and horses were shipped, when an 
officer arrived from the Divan, to demand from me the 
poll-tax that Moosa Pasha, the Governor-general, had 
recently levied upon the inhabitants; and to inform 
me, that in the event of my refusing to pay the said 
tax for each of my men, amounting to one month's 
wages per head, he should detain my boats. I ordered 
-my captain to hoist the British flag upon each of the 
-three boats, and sent my compliments to the govern¬ 
ment official, telling him that I was neither a Turkish 
subject nor a trader, but an English explorer; that I 
was not responsible for the tax, and that if any Turkish 
official should board my boat, under the British flag, 
I should take the liberty of throwing him overboard. 
This announcement appeared so practical, that the 
official hurriedly departed, while I marched my men 
on board, and ordered the boatmen to get ready to 


30 


COLLISION BEFORE STARTING . 


[chap. I. 


start. Just at that moment, a government vessel, by 
the merest chance, came swiftly down the river under 
sail, and in the clumsiest manner crashed right into us. 
The oars being lashed in their places on my boat, ready 
to start, were broken to pieces by the other vessel, 
which, fouling another of my boats just below, became 
fixed. The reis, or captain of the government boat 
that had caused the mischief, far from apologising, 
commenced the foulest abuse; and refused to give 
oars in exchange for those he had destroyed. To start 
was impossible without oars, and an angry altercation 
being carried on between my men and the government 
boat, it was necessary to come to closer quarters. The 
reis of the government boat was a gigantic black, 
a Tokrouri (native of Darfur) who, confident in his 
strength, challenged any one to come on board, nor did 
any of my fellows respond to the invitation. The inso¬ 
lence of Turkish government officials is beyond descrip¬ 
tion—my oars were smashed, and this insult was the 
reparation ; so, stepping quickly on board, and brushing 
a few fellows on one side, I was obliged to come to a 
physical explanation with the captain, which termi¬ 
nated in a delivery of the oars. The bank of the river 
was thronged with people, many were mere idlers 
attracted by the bustle of the start, and others, the 
friends and relatives of my people, who had come to 


CHAP. I.] 


AMIABLE BOY! 


31 


say a last good-bye, with many women, to raise the 
Arab cry of parting. Among others, was a tall, de- 
bauched-looking fellow, excessively drunk and noisy, 
who, quarrelling with a woman who attempted to 
restrain him, insisted upon addressing a little boy 
named Osman, declaring that he should not accompany 
me unless he gave him a dollar to get some drink. 
Osman was a sharp Arab boy of twelve years old, 
whom I had engaged as one of the tent servants, and 
the drunken Arab was his father, who wished to extort 
some cash from his son before he parted; but the boy 
Osman showed his filial affection in a most touching 
manner, by running into the cabin, and fetching a 
powerful hippopotamus whip, with which he requested 
me to have his father thrashed, or " he would never 
be gone " Without indulging this amiable boy's desire, 
we shoved off; the three vessels rowed into the middle 
of the river, and hoisted sail; a fair wind, and strong 
current, moved us rapidly down the stream; the 
English flags fluttered gaily on the masts, and amidst 
the shouting of farewells, and the rattling of musketry, 
we started for the sources of the Nile. On passing the 
steamer belonging to the Dutch ladies, Madame van 
Capellan, and her charming daughter, Mademoiselle 
Tinne, we saluted them with a volley, and kept up a 
mutual waving of handkerchiefs until out of view; 


THE DEPARTURE. 


[chap. I. 


32 

little did we think that we should never meet those 
kind faces again, and that so dreadful a fate would 
envelop almost the entire party* 

It was the 18th December, 1862, Thursday, one of 
the most lucky days for a start, according to Arab 
superstition. In a few minutes we reached the acute 
angle round which we had. to turn sharply into the 
AVhite Nile at its junction with the Blue. It was 
blowing hard, and in tacking round the point one of 
the noggors carried away her yard, which fell upon 
deck and snapped in half, fortunately without injuring 
either men or donkeys. The yard being about a 
hundred feet in length was a complicated affair to 
splice ; thus a delay took place in the act of starting, 
which was looked upon as a bad omen by my super¬ 
stitious followers. The voyage up the AVhite Nile I 
now extract verbatim from my j ournal. 

Friday , 1 9 th Dec .—At daybreak took down the 
mast and unshipped all the rigging ; hard at work 
splicing the yard. The men of course wished to visit 
their friends at Khartoum. Gave strict orders that no 
man should leave the boats. One of the horsekeepers 
absconded before daybreak ; sent after him. 

* The entire party died of fever on the White Nile, excepting 
Mademoiselle Tinne. The victims to the fatal climate of Central 
Africa were Madame la Baronne Yan Capellan, her sister, two 
Dutch maid-servants, Dr. Steudner, and Signor Contarini. 


CHAP. I.] 


THE BOY OSMAX. 


33 


The junction of the two Niles is a vast flat as far. as 
the eye can reach, the White Nile being about two 
miles broad some distance above the point. Saati 
my vakeel (headman) is on board one noggor as chief; 
Johann on board the other, while I being on the diah- 
biah, I trust all the animals will be well cared for. I 
am very fearful of Johanns state of health : the poor 
fellow is mere skin and bone, and I am afraid his lungs 
are affected; he has fever again to-day; I have sent 
him quinine and wine, &c. 

20 th Dec .—The whole of yesterday employed 
in splicing yard, repairing mast, and re-rigging. At 
8.30 a.m. we got away with a spanking breeze. The 
diahbiah horridly leaky. The " tree " or rendezvous 
for all boats when leaving for the White Nile voyage* 
consists of three large mimosas about four miles from 
the point of junction. The Nile at this spot about two 
miles wide—dead flat banks—mimosas on west bank. 
My two cabin boys are very useful, and Osman's ring¬ 
ing laugh and constant impertinence to the crew and 
soldiers keep the boat alive;—he is a capital boy, a 
perfect gamin, and being a tailor by trade he is very 
useful—this accounts for his father wishing to detain 
him. The horses and donkeys very snug on board. 
At 1 p.m. passed Gebel Ouli, a small hill on south 
bank—course S.W. \ S. At 8.30 p.m. reached Getene, 


VOL. i. 


D 


34 BANKS OF WHITE NILE. [chap. i. 

a village of mixed Arabs on the East- bank— 
anchored. 

21 st Dec. —All day busy clearing decks, caulk¬ 
ing ship, and making room for the camels on the 
noggors, as this is the village to which I had previously 
sent two men to select camels and to have them in 
readiness for my arrival. The men have been selecting 
SAveethearts instead; thus I must wait here to-morrow, 
that being the "Soog" or market day, when I shall 
purchase my camels and milch goats. The banks of 
the river very uninteresting, flat, desert, and mimosa 
bush. The soil is not so rich as on the banks of the 
Blue Nile—the dhurra (grain) is small. The Nile is 
quite two miles wide up to this point, and the high- 
water mark is not more than five feet above the present 
level. The banks shelve gradually like the sands at 
low tide in England, and quite unlike the perpendicular 
banks of the Blue Nile. Busy at gunsmiths work. 
The niglits and mornings are now cold, from 60 to 62 
Fahr. Johann makes me very anxious : I much fear 
lie cannot last long, unless some sudden change for the 
better takes place. 

22 cl Dec— Selected two fine camels and shipped 
them in slings with some difficulty. Bought four 
oxen at nine herias each (l 5s.); the men delighted 
at the work of slaughtering, and jerking the meat for 


CHAP. I.] 


CHANGE IN DISPOSITION OF MEN. 


35 


the voyage. Bought four milch goats at 9 ps. each, 
and laid in a large stock of dhurra straw for the 
animals. Got all my men on board and sailed at 
4.30 p.m., course due west; variation allowed for. I 
have already reduced my men from wolves to lambs, 
and I should like to see the outrageous acts of mutiny 
which are the scape-goats of the traders for laying 
their atrocities upon the men's shoulders. I cannot 
agree with some writers in believing that personal 
strength is unnecessary to a traveller. In these savage 
countries it adds materially to the success of an ex¬ 
pedition, provided that it be combined with kindness of 
manner, justice, and unflinching determination. Nothing 
impresses savages so forcibly as the poiver to punish and 
reward. I am not sure that this theory is applicable to 
savages exclusively. Arrived at Wat Shely at 9 p*m. 

23cZ Dec. —Poor Johann very ill. Bought two 
camels, and shipped them all right: the market at 
this miserable village is as poor as that at Getene. 
The river is about a mile and a half wide, fringed with 
mimosas; country dead flat; soil very sandy; much 
cultivation near the village, but the dhurra of poor 
quality. Saw many hippopotami in the river. I 
much regret that I allowed Johann to accompany me 
from Khartoum; I feel convinced he can never rally 
from his present condition. 

D 2 


36 CHARACTER OF THE RIVER. [chap. i. 

24 th Dec. — Sailed yesterday at 4.5 p.m., course 
south. This morning we are off the Bagara country 
on the west bank. Dead fiats of mimosas, many of 
the trees growing in the water; the river generally 
shallow, and many snags or dead stumps of trees. I 
have been fortunate with my men, only one being 
drunk on leaving Wat Shely; him we carried forcibly 
on board. Passed the island of Hassaniah at 2.20 p.m. ; 
the usual flats covered with mimosas. The high-water 
mark upon the stems of these trees is three feet above 
the present level of the river; thus an immense extent 
of country must be flooded during the wet season, as 
there are no banks to the river. The water will retire 
in about two months, when the neighbourhood of the 
river will be thronged with natives and their flocks. 
All the natives of these parts are Arabs; the Bagara 
tribe on the west bank. At Wat Shely some of the 
latter came on board to offer their services as slave- 
hunters, this open offer confirming the general custom 
of all vessels trading upon the White Nile. 

2 5 th Dec. —The Tokroori boy, Saat, is very amiable 
in calling all the servants daily to eat together the 
residue from our table; but he being so far civilized, 
is armed with a huge spoon, and having a mouth like 
a crocodile, he obtains a fearful advantage over the 
rest of the party, who eat the soup by dipping kisras 


CHAP. I.] 


MISERY OF SCENE. 


37 


(pancakes) into it with their fingers. Meanwhile Saat 
sits among his invited guests, and works away with 
his spoon like a sageer (water-wheel), and gets an 
unwarrantable start, the soup disappearing like water 
in the desert. A dead calm the greater portion of the 
day; the river fringed with mimosa forest. These 
trees are the Soont (Acacia Arabica) which produce an 
excellent tannin : the fruit, " garra," is used for that 
purpose, and produces a rich brown dye: all my clothes 
and the uniforms of my men I dyed at Khartoum with 
this " garra." The trees are about eighteen inches in 
diameter and thirty-five feet high; being in full foliage, 
their appearance from a distance is good, but on a 
closer approach the forest proves to be a desolate 
swamp, completely overflowed ; a mass of fallen dead 
trees protruding from the stagnant waters, a solitary 
crane perched here and there upon the rotten boughs; 
floating water-plants massed together, and forming 
green swimming islands, hitched generally among the 
sunken trunks and branches; sometimes slowly de¬ 
scending with the sluggish stream, bearing, spectre-like, 
storks thus voyaging on nature's rafts from lands 
unknown. It is a fever-stricken wilderness—the current 
not exceeding a quarter of a mile per hour:—-the water 
coloured like an English horse-pond; a heaven for 
mosquitoes and a damp hell for man ; fortunately, 


38 


RIVER VEGETATION , 


[chap. X. 


tliis being the cold season, the winged plagues are 
absent. The country beyond the inundated mimosa 
woods is of the usual sandy character, with thorny 
Kittur bush. Saw a few antelopes. Stopped at a 
horrible swamp to collect firewood. Anchored at 
night in a dead calm, well out in the river to escape 
malaria from the swamped forest. This is a precaution 
that the men would neglect, and my expedition might 
suffer in consequence. Christmas Day ! 

2 6th Dec .—Good breeze at about 3 a.m. ; made sail. 
I have never seen a fog in this part of Africa ; although 
the neighbourhood of the river is swampy, the air is 
clear both in the morning and evening. Floating- 
islands of water-plants are now very numerous. There 
is a plant something like a small cabbage (Pislia 
Stratiotes , L.), which floats alone until it meets a com¬ 
rade ; these unite, and recruiting as they float onward, 
they eventually form masses of many thousands, entan¬ 
gling with other species of water-plants and floating- 
wood, until they at length form floating islands. Saw 
many hippopotami; the small hill in the Dinka country 
seen from the mast-head at 9.15 a.m. ; breeze light, but 
steady; the banks of the river, high grass and mimosas, 
but not forest as formerly. Water-lilies in full bloom, 
white, but larger than the European variety. In the 
evening the crew and soldiers singing and drumming. 


CHAP. I.] 


AMBATCH WOOD. 


39 


2 7th Dec .—Blowing hard all night. Passed the 
Dinker hill at 3.30 a.m. Obliged to take in sail, as 
it buried the head of the vessel and we shipped much 
water. Staggering along under bare poles at about 
five miles per hour. The true banks of the river are 
about five hundred yards distant from the actual 
stream, this space being a mass of floating water- 
plants, decayed vegetable matter, and a high reedy 
grass much resembling sugar-canes; the latter excel¬ 
lent food for my animals. Many very interesting 
water-plants and large quantities of Ambatch wood 
(Anemone mirdbilis )—this wood, of less specific gra¬ 
vity than cork, is generally used for rafts ; at this 
season it is in full bloom, its bright yellow blossoms 
enlivening the dismal swamps. Secured very fine 
specimens of a variety of helix from the floating 
islands. In this spot the river is from 1500 yards 
to a mile wide ; the country, flat and uninteresting, 
being the usual scattered thorn bushes and arid 
plains, the only actual timber being confined to the 
borders of the river. Course, always south with few 
turns. My sponging-bath makes a good pinnace for 
going ashore from the vessel. At 4.20 p.m. one of 
the noggors carried away her yard—the same boat 
that met with the accident at our departure; hove to,, 
and closed with the bank for repairs. Here is an affair 


40 


JOHANN'S SICKNESS . 


[chap. I. 


of delay; worked with my own hands until 9 p.m. ; 
spliced the yard, bound it with rhinoceros thongs, and 
secured the whole splice with raw bull's hide. Posted 
sentries—two on each boat, and two on shore. 

28 tli Dec .—At work at break of day. Completed the 
repair of yard, which is disgracefully faulty. Ee-rigged 
the mast. Poor Johann will die, I much fear. His 
constitution appears to be quite broken up; he has 
become deaf, and there is every symptom of decay. 
I have done all I can for him, but his voyage in this 
life is nearly over. Ship in order, and all sailed to¬ 
gether at 2.15 p.m. Strong north wind. Two vessels 
from Khartoum passed us while repairing damages. 
I re-arranged the donkeys, dividing them into stalls 
containing three each, as they were such donkeys that 
they crowded each other unnecessarily. Caught a 
curious fish (Tetrodon physa of Geof.), that distends 
itself with air like a bladder ; colour black, and yellow 
stripes ; lungs ; apertures under the fins, which open 
and shut by their movement, their motion being a semi¬ 
revolution. This fish is a close link between fish and 
turtle; the head is precisely that of the latter, having 
no teeth, but cutting jaws of hard bone of immense 
power. Many minutes after the head had been severed 
from the body, the jaws nipped with fury anything that 
was inserted in the mouth, ripping through thin twigs 


CHAP. 1.1 USES OF FISH-SKIN . 41 

and thick straw like a pair of shears. The skin of the 
belly is white, and is armed with prickles. The skin is 
wonderfully tough. I accordingly cut it into a long 
thong, and bound up the stock of a rifle that had 
been split from the recoil of heavy charges of powder. 
The flesh was strong of musk, and uneatable. There 
is nothing so good as fish-skin—or that of the iguana, 
or of the crocodile—for lashing broken gun-stocks. 
Isinglass, when taken fresh from the fish and bound 
round a broken stock like a plaster, will become as 
strong as metal when dry. Country as usual—flat 
and thorny bush. A heavy swell creates a curious 
effect in the undulations of the green rafts upon the 
water. Dinka country on east bank ; Shillook on the 
west; course south; all Arab tribes are left behind, 
and we are now thoroughly among the negroes. 

29 th Dec .—At midnight the river made a bend 
westward, which continued for about fifteen miles. 
The wind being adverse, at 5 a.m. we found ourselves 
hist in the grass and floating vegetation on the lee 
side. Two hours' hard work at two ropes, alternately, 
fastened to the high grass ahead of the boat and 
hauled upon from the deck, warped us round the 
bend of the river, which turning due south, we again 
ran before a favourable gale for two hours; all the 
boats well together. The east bank of the river is 


42 


JOHANN DYING. 


[chap. I. 


not discernible—a vast expanse of high reeds stretch¬ 
ing as far as the eye can reach; course p.m. W.S.W. 
At 4 p.m. the " Clumsy," as I have named one of our 
noggors, suddenly carried away her mast close by the 
board, the huge yard and rigging falling overboard 
with the wreck, severely hurting two men and break¬ 
ing one of their guns. Hove to by an island on the 
Shillook side, towed the wreck ashore, and assembled 
all the boats. Fortunately there is timber at hand ; 
thus I cut down a tree for a mast and got all ready 
for commencing repairs to-morrow. Poor Johann is, 
as I had feared, dying; he bleeds from the lungs, 
and is in the last stage of exhaustion. Posted six 
sentries. 

30ih Dec .—Johann is in a dying state, but sensi¬ 
ble ; all his hopes, poor fellow, of saving money in 
my service and returning to Bavaria are past. I sat 
by his bed for some hours; there was not a ray of 
hope; he could speak with difficulty, and the flies 
walked across his glazed eyeballs without his know¬ 
ledge. Gently bathing his face and hands, I asked 
him if I could deliver any message to his relatives. 
He faintly uttered, " I am prepared to die; I have 
neither parents nor relations; but there is one—she" 
—he faltered. He could not finish his sentence, but 
his dying thoughts were with one he loved; far, far 


CHAP. I.] 


JOHANN'S NEATH. 


43 


away from this wild and miserable land, his spirit was 
transported to his native village, and to the object 
that made life dear to him. Did not a shudder pass 
over her, a chill warning at that sad moment when 
all was passing away ? I pressed his cold hand, and 
asked her name. Gathering his remaining strength 
he murmured, " Krombach " * . . . " Es bleibt nur zu 
sterben." " Ich bin sehr dankbar." These were the 
last words he spoke, " I am very grateful." I gazed 
sorrowfully at his attenuated figure, and at the now 
j)owerless hand that had laid low many an elephant 
and lion, in its day of strength; and the cold sweat 
of death lay thick upon his forehead. Although the 
pulse was not yet still, Johann was gone. 

31st Dec .—Johann died. I made a huge cross with 
my own hands from the trunk of a tamarind tree, and 
by moonlight we laid him in his grave in this lonely 
spot. 

"No useless coffin enclosed his breast, 

Nor in sheet nor in shroud we wound him; 

But he lay like a pilgrim taking his rest, 

With his mantle drawn around him." 

This is a mournful commencement of the voyage. 
Poor fellow, I did all I could for him although that 
was but little ; and hands far more tender than mine 

* Krombach was merely the name of his native village in Bavaria. 


44 


NEW YEAR. 


[chap. I. 


ministered to his last necessities. This sad event 
closes the year 1862. Made sail at 8.30 p.m., the 
repairs of ship being completed. 

1863, Jan. ls£, 2 o'clock a.m. —Melancholy thoughts 
preventing sleep, I have watched the arrival of the 
new year. Thank God for his blessings during the 
past, and may He guide us through the untrodden 
path before us! 

We arrived at the village of Mahomed Her in the 
Shillook country. This man is a native of Dongola, 
who, having become a White Nile adventurer, estab¬ 
lished himself among the Shillook tribe with a band 
of ruffians, and is the arch-slaver of the Nile. The 
country, as usual, a dead flat: many Shillook villages 
on west bank all deserted, owing to Mahomed Hers 
plundering. This fellow now assumes a right of terri¬ 
tory, and offers to pay tribute to the Egyptian Govern¬ 
ment, thus throwing a sop to Cerberus to prevent 
intervention. 

Course S.W. The river in clear water about seven 
hundred yards wide, but sedge on the east bank for 
a couple of miles in width. 

2d Jan. —The " Clumsy " lagging, come to grief 
again, having once more sprung her rotten yard. Fine 
breeze, but obliged to wait upon this wretched boat— 
the usual flat uninteresting marshes : Shillook villages 


chap, i.] SHILLOOK VILLAGES . 45 

in great numbers on the terra firma to the west. 
Verily it is a pleasant voyage; disgusting naked 
savages, everlasting marshes teeming with mosquitoes, 
and the entire country devoid of anything of either 
common interest or beauty. Course west the whole 
day; saw giraffes and one ostrich on the east bank. 
On the west bank there is a regular line of villages 
throughout the day's voyage within half a mile of each 
other ; the country very thickly populated. The huts 
are of mud, thatched, having a very small entrance-— 
they resemble button mushrooms. The Shillooks are 
wealthy, immense herds of cattle swarm throughout 
their country. The natives navigate the river in 
two kinds of canoes—one of which is a curious com¬ 
bination of raft and canoe formed of the Ambatch 
wood, which is so light, that the whole affair is 
portable. The Ambatch (Anemone mirabilis) is seldom 
larger than a man's waist, and as it tapers naturally 
to a point, the canoe rafts are quickly formed by lash¬ 
ing the branches parallel to each other, and tying the 
narrow ends together. 

3 d Jan .—The " Clumsy's" yard having been lashed 
with rhinoceros hide, fortunately holds together, al¬ 
though sprung. Stopped this morning on the east 
bank, and gathered a supply of wood. On the west 
bank Shillook villages as yesterday during the days 


46 


TIIE SOB AT RIVER. 


[CHAP. I. 


voyage, all within lialf a mile of each other; one 
village situated among a thick grove of the dolape 
palms close to the river. The natives, afraid of our boats, 
decamped, likewise the fishermen, who were harpooning 
fish from small fishing stations among the reeds. 

The country, as usual, dead flat, and very marshy 
on the east bank, upon which side I see no signs 
of habitations! Course this morning south. Arrived 
at the river Sobat junction at 12.40 P.M., and anchored 
about half a mile within that river at a spot where the 
Turks had formerly constructed a camp. Not a tree 
to be seen ; but dead flats of prairie and marsh as far 
as the eye can reach. The Sobat is not more than a 
hundred and twenty yards in breadth. 

I measured the stream by a floating gourd, which 
travelled 130 yards in 112 seconds, equal to about 
two miles and a half an hour. The quality of the 
water is very superior to that of the White Nile—this 
would suggest that it is of mountain origin. Upward 
course of Sobat south, 25° east. Upward course of 
the White Nile west, 2° north from the Sobat junction. 

4 th Jan, —By observation of suns meridian altitude, 
I make the latitude of the Sobat junction 9? 21' 14". 
Busy fishing the yard of the " Clumsy," and mending 
sails. The camels and donkeys all well—plenty of 
fine grass-^-made a good stock of hay. My reis and 


•chap, i.] ITS CHARACTER. 4/ 

boatmen tell me that the Sobat, within a few days' 
sail of the junction, divides into seven branches, all 
shallow and with a rapid current. The banks are flat, 
and the river is now bank-full. Although the water 
is perfectly clear, and there is no appearance of flood, 
yet masses of weeds, as though tom from their beds by 
torrents, are constantly floating down the stream. One 
of my men has been up the river to the farthest 
navigable point; he declares that it is fed by many 
mountain torrents, and that it runs out very rapidly 
at the cessation of the rains. I sounded the river in 
many places, the depth varying very slightly, from 
twenty-seven to twenty-eight feet. At 5 p.m. set sail 
with a light breeze, and glided along the dead water 
of the White Nile. Full moon—the water like a 
mirror; the country one vast and apparently inter¬ 
minable marsh—the river about a mile wide, and more 
or less covered with floating plants. The night still as 
death; dogs barking in the distant villages, and herds 
of hippopotami snorting in all directions, being dis¬ 
turbed by the boats. Course west. 

5 th Jan .—Fine breeze, as much as we can carry; 
boats running at eight or nine miles an hour—no 
stream perceptible; vast marshes; the clear water of 
the river not more than 150 yards wide, forming 
a channel through the great extent of water grass 


48 


BAHR GIRAFFE. 


[CIIAP. Ii 


resembling high sugar canes, which conceal the true 
extent of the river. About six miles west-from the 
Sobat junction on the north side of the river, is a kind 
of backwater, extending north like a lake for a dis¬ 
tance of several days' boat journey : this is eventually 
lost in regions of high grass and marshes; in the wet- 
season this forms a large lake. A hill bearing north 
20° west so distant as to be hardly discernible. The 
Bahr Giraffe is a small river entering the Nile on the 
south bank between the Sobat and Bahr el Gazal—my 
reis (Diabb) tells me it is merely a branch from the 
White Nile from the Aliab country, and not an inde¬ 
pendent river. Course west, 10° north, the current 
about one mile per hour. Marshes and ambatch, far 
as the eye can reach. 

At 6.40 p.m. reached the Bahr el Gazal; the junction 
has the appearance of a lake about three miles in 
length, by one in width, varying according to seasons. 
Although bank-full, there is no stream whatever from 
the Bahr el Gazal, and it has the appearance of a back¬ 
water formed by the Nile. The water being clear and 
perfectly dead, a stranger would imagine it to be an 
overflow of the Nile, were the existence of the Bahr el 
Gazal unknown. 

The Bahr el Gazal extends due west from this point 
for a great distance, the entire river being a system 


CHAP. I.] 


BAER EL GAZAL. 


49 


of marshes, stagnant water overgrown by rushes, ancl 
ambatch wood, through which a channel has to be 
cleared to permit the passage of a boat. Little or no 
water can descend to the Nile from this river, otherwise 
there would be some trifling current at the embouchure. 
The Nile has a stream of about a mile and a half per 
hour, as it sweeps suddenly round the angle, changing 
its downward course from north to east. The breadth 
in this spot does not exceed 130 yards ; but it is im¬ 
possible to determine the actual width of the river, as 
its extent is concealed by reeds with which the country 
is entirely covered to the horizon. 

The White Nile having an upward course of west 
10° north, variation of compass 10° west, from the 
Sobat to the Bahr el Gazal junction, now turns ab¬ 
ruptly to south 10° east. From native accounts there 
is a great extent of lake country at this point. The 
general appearance of the country denotes a vast flat, 
with slight depressions; these form extensive lakes 
during the wet season, and sodden marshes during the 
dry weather; thus contradictory accounts of the country 
may be given by travellers according to the seasons at 
which they examined it. There is nothing to denote 
large permanent lakes; vast masses of water plants 
and vegetation requiring both a wet and dry season, 
exist throughout; but there are no great tracts of deep 


VOL. i. 


E 


50 


OBSERVATIONS. 


[chap. I. 


water. The lake at the Bahr el Gazal entrance is 
from seven to nine feet deep, by soundings in various 
places. Anchored the little squadron, as I wait here 
for observations. Had the " Clumsy's " yard lowered 
and examined—cut a supply of grass for the animals. 

Jan. 6th .—Overhauled the stores. My stock of 
liquor will last to Gondokoro ; after that spot " vive la 
misere." It is curious in African travel to mark the 
degrees of luxury and misery; how, one by one, the 
wine, spirits, bread, sugar, tea, &c., are dropped like 
the feathers of a moulting bird, and nevertheless we 
go ahead contented. 

My men busy cutting grass, washing, fishing, &c. 
Latitude, by meridian altitude of sun, 9° 29'. Differ¬ 
ence of time by observation between this point and 
the Sobat junction 4 min. 26 secs., 1° 6' 30" distance. 
Caught some perch, but without the red fin of the 
European species; also some boulti with the net. The 
latter is a variety of perch growing to about four 
pounds' weight, and is excellent eating. 

Sailed at 3 p.m. Masses of the beautiful but gloomy 
Papyrus rush, growing in dense thickets about eighteen 
feet above the water. I measured the diameter of one 
head, or crown, four feet one inch. 

Jan. 7th .—Started at 6 a.m. ; course E. 10° S. ; 
wind dead against us; the " Clumsy " not in sight. 


CHAP. I.] 


CORPORAL RICIIARN. 


51 


Obliged to haul along by fastening long ropes to the 
grass about a hundred yards ahead. This is frightful 
work; the men must swim that distance to secure the 
rope, and those on board hauling it in gradually, pull 
the vessel against the stream. Nothing can exceed 
the labour and tediousness of this operation. From 
constant work in the water many of my men are 
suffering from fever. The temperature is much higher 
than when we left Khartoum ; the country, as usual, 
one vast marsh. At night the hoarse music of hippo¬ 
potami snorting and playing among the high-flooded 
reeds, and the singing of countless myriads of mos¬ 
quitoes—the nightingales of the White Nile. My black 
fellow, Kicharn, whom I had appointed corporal, will 
soon be reduced to the ranks; the animal is spoiled 
by sheer drink. Having been drunk every day in 
Khartoum, and now being separated from his liquor, 
he is plunged into a black melancholy. He sits upon 
the luggage like a sick rook, doing minstrelsy, playing 
the rababa (guitar), and smoking the whole day, unless 
asleep, which is half that time : he is sighing after the 
merissa (beer) pots of Egypt. This man is an illustra¬ 
tion of missionary success. He was brought up from 
boyhood at the Austrian mission, and he is a genuine 
specimen of the average results. He told me a few 
days ago that " he is no longer a Christian." 


52 


CHARACTER OF BAER El GAZAL. 


[chap. I. 


There are two varieties of convolvolns growing here ; 
also a peculiar gourd, which, when dry and divested of 
its shell, exposes a vegetable sponge, formed of a dense 
but fine network of fibres; the seeds are contained in 
the centre of this fibre. The bright yellow flowers of 
the ambatch, and of a tree resembling a laburnum, 
are in great profusion. The men completely done : I 
served them out a measure of grog. The " Clumsy " 
not in sight. 

Jan. 8th .—Waited all night for the " Clumsy." She 
appeared at 8 a.m., when the reis and several men 
received the w r hip for laziness. All three vessels 
now rounded a sharp turn in the river, and the wind 
being then favourable, we were soon under sail. The 
clear water of the river from the Bahr el Gazal to this 
point, does not exceed a hundred and twenty yards in 
width. The stream runs at one and three-quarter 
miles per hour, bringing with it a quantity of floating 
vegetation. The fact of a strong current both above 
and below the Bahr el Gazal junction, while the lake at 
that point is dead water, proves that I was right in my 
surmise, that no water flows from the Bahr el Gazal 
into the Nile during this season, and that the lake and 
the extensive marshes at that locality are caused as 
much by the surplus water of the White Nile flowing 
into a depression, as they are by the Bahr el Gazal, the 


chap, i.] PECULIARITY OF RIVER SOBAT. 53 

water of the latter river being absorbed by the immense 
marshes. 

Yesterday we anchored at a dry spot, on which grew 
many mimosas of the red bark variety; the ground 
was a dead flat, and the river was up to the roots of 
the trees near the margin; thus the river is quite full 
at this season, but not flooded. There was no water¬ 
mark upon the stems of the trees ; thus I have little 
doubt that the actual rise of the water-level during the 
rainy season is very trifling, as the water extends over 
a prodigious extent of surface, the river having no 
banks. The entire country is merely a vast marsh, 
with a river flowing through the midst. 

At this season last year I was on the Settite. That 
great river and the Atbara were then excessively low. 
The Blue Nile was also low at the same time. On the 
contrary, the White Nile and the Sobat, although not 
at their highest, are bank-full, while the former two are 
failing; this proves that the White Nile and the Sobat 
rise far south, among mountains subject to a rainfall at 
different seasons, extending over a greater. portion of 
the year than the rainy season of Abyssinia and the 
neighbouring Galla country. 

It is not surprising that the ancients gave up the 
exploration of the Nile when they came to the count¬ 
less windings and difficulties of the marshes; the river 


54 


TEDIOUSNESS OF VOYAGE. 


[chap. I. 


is like an entangled skein of thread. Wind light; 
course S. 20° W. The strong north wind that took us 
from Khartoum has long since become a mere breath. 
It never blows in this latitude regularly from the 
north. The wind commences at between 8 and 9 a.m., 
and sinks at sunset; thus the voyage through these 
frightful marshes and windings is tedious and melan¬ 
choly beyond description. Great numbers of hippo¬ 
potami this evening, greeting the boats with their loud 
snorting bellow, which vibrates through the vessels. 

Jan. 9 th .—Two natives fishing; left their canoe and 
ran on the approach of our boats. My men wished to 
steal it, which of course I prevented; it was a simple 
dome-palm hollowed. In the canoe was a harpoon, 
very neatly made with only one barb. Both sides of 
the river from the Bahr el Gazal belong to the Nuehr 
tribe. Course S.E.; wind very light; windings of 
river endless; continual hauling. At about half an 
hour before sunset, as the men were hauling the boat 
along by dragging at the high reeds from the deck, a 
man at the mast-head reported a buffalo standing on a 
dry piece of ground near the river; being in want of 
meat, the men begged me to shoot him. The buffalo 
was so concealed by the high grass, that he could not 
be seen from the deck; I therefore stood upon an 
angarep (bedstead) on the poop, and from this I could 


CHAP. I.] 


BULL BUFFALO. 


55 


just discern liis head and shoulders in the high grass, 
about a hundred and twenty yards off. I fired with 
No. 1 Reilly rifle, and he dropped apparently dead to 
the shot. The men being hungry, were mad with 
delight, and regardless of all but meat, they dashed 
into the water, and were shortly at him; one man 
holding him by the tail, another dancing upon him 
and brandishing his knife, and all shouting a yell of 
exultation. Presently up jumped the insulted buffalo, 
and charging through the men, he disappeared in the 
high grass, falling, as the men declared, in the deep 
morass. It was dusk, and the men, being rather 
ashamed of their folly in dancing instead of ham¬ 
stringing the animal, and securing their beef, slunk 
back to their vessels. 

Jan. 10th .—Early in the morning the buffalo was 
heard groaning in the marsh, not far from the spot 
where he was supposed to have fallen. About forty 
men took their guns and knives, intent upon beefsteaks, 
and waded knee-deep in mud and water through the 
high grass of the morass in search. About one hour 
passed in this way, and, seeing the reckless manner in 
which the men were wandering about, I went down 
below to beat the drum to call them back, which the 
vakeel had. been vainly attempting. Just at this 
moment I heard a distant yelling, and shot fired after 


56 


SALI ACHMET KILLED. 


[chap. I. 


shot, about twenty times, in quick succession. I saw 
with the telescope a crowd of men about three hundred 
yards distant, standing on a white ant-hill raised above 
the green sea of high reeds, from which elevated point 
they were keeping up a dropping fire at some object 
indistinguishable in the high grass. The death-howl 
was soon raised, and the men rushing down from their 
secure position, shortly appeared, carrying with them 
my best choush 3 Sali Achmet, dead. He had come 
suddenly upon the buffalo, who, although disabled, 
had caught him in the deep mud and killed him. 
His gallant comrades bolted, although he called to 
them for assistance, and they had kept up a distant 
fire from the lofty ant-hill, instead of rushing to his 
rescue. The buffalo lay dead; and a grave was im¬ 
mediately dug for the unfortunate Sali. My journey 
begins badly with the death of my good man Johann 
and my best choush—added to the constant mishaps 
of the "Clumsy." Fortunately I did not start from 
Khartoum on a Friday, or the unlucky day would 
have borne the onus of all the misfortunes. 

The graves of the Arabs are an improvement upon 
those of Europeans. What poor person who cannot 
afford a vault, has not felt a pang as the clod fell 
upon the coffin of his relative ? The Arabs avoid this. 
Although there is no coffin, the rude earth does not 


CHAP. I.] 


HIS BURIAL. 


57 


rest upon the body. The hole .being dug similar in 
shape to a European grave, an extra trench is formed 
at the bottom of the grave about a foot wide. The 
body is laid upon its side within this trench, and covered 
by bricks made of clay which are laid across;—thus 
the body is contained within a narrow vault. Mud is 
then smeared over the hastily made bricks, and nothing 
is visible; the tomb being made level with the bottom 
of the large grave. This is filled up with earth, which, 
resting on the brick covering of the trench, cannot 
press upon the body. In such a grave my best man 
was laid—the Slave women raising their horrible howl¬ 
ing and my men crying loudly, as well explained in the 
words of Scripture, "and he lifted up his voice and 
wept/' I was glad to see so much external feeling for 
their comrade, but the grave being filled, their grief, 
like all loud sorrow, passed quickly away and re¬ 
lapsed into thoughts of buffalo meat; they were soon 
busily engaged in cutting up the flesh. There are 
two varieties of buffaloes in this part of Africa—the 
Bos Caffer, with convex horns, and that with flat horns; 
this was the latter species. A horn had entered the 
man's thigh, tearing the whole of the muscles from the 
bone; there was also a wound from the centre of the 
throat to the ear, thus completely torn open, severing 
the jugular vein. One rib was broken, the breast- 


58 FEROCITY OF THE BUFFALO. [chap. i. 

bone. As usual with buffaloes, he had not rested con¬ 
tent until he had pounded the breath out of the body, 
which was found imbedded and literally stamped 
tight into the mud, with only a portion of the head 
above the marsh. Sali had not even cocked his gun, 
the hammer being down on the nipples when found. 
I will not allow these men to come to grief in this 
way; they are a reckless set of thoughtless cowards, 
full of noise and bluster, fond of firing off their guns 
like children, and wasting ammunition uselessly, and 
in time of danger they can never be relied upon ; they 
deserted their comrade when in need, and cried aloud 
like infants at his death; they shall not again be 
allowed to move from the boats. 

In the evening I listened to the men conversing 
over the whole affair, when I learnt the entire truth. 
It appears that Richarn and two other men were with 
the unfortunate Sali when the brute charged him, and 
the cowards all bolted without firing a shot in defence. 
There was a large white ant-hill about fifty yards 
distant, to which they retreated; from the top of this 
fort they repeatedly saw the man thrown into the air, 
and heard him calling for assistance. Instead of hast¬ 
ening in a body to his aid, they called to him to " keep 
quiet and the buffalo would leave him." This is a 
sample of the courage of these Khartoumers. The 


CHAP. I.] 


" THE CLUMSY" ON THE STYX. 


59 


buffalo was so disabled by my shot of yesterday that 
lie was incapable of leaving the spot, as, with a broken 
shoulder, he could not get through the deep mud. My 
Reilly No. 10 bullet was found under the skin of the 
right shoulder, having passed in at the left shoulder 
rather above the lungs. 

The windings of this monotonous river are extra¬ 
ordinary, and during dead calms in these vast marshes 
the feeling of melancholy produced is beyond descrip¬ 
tion. The White Nile is a veritable " Styx." When 
the wind does happen to blow hard, the navigation is 
most difficult, owing to the constant windings ; the 
sailors being utterly ignorant, and the rig of the vessel 
being the usual huge " leg of mutton " sail, there is an 
amount of screaming and confusion at every attempt 
to tack which generally ends in our being driven on 
the lee marsh ; this is preferable to a capsize, which is 
sometimes anything but distant. This morning is one 
of those days of blowing hard, with the accompani¬ 
ments of screaming and shouting. Course S.E. Waited 
half a day for the " Clumsy," which hove in sight just 
before dark; the detentions caused by this vessel are 
becoming serious, a quick voyage being indispensable 
for the animals. The camels are already suffering 
from confinement, and I have their legs well swathed 
in wet bandages. 


60 CURRENT OF WHITE NILE. [chap. i. 

This marsh land varies in width. In some portions 
of the river it appears to extend for about two miles 
on either side ; in other parts farther than the eye 
can reach. In all cases the main country is a dead 
flat; now blazing and smoking beyond the limit of 
marshes, as the natives have fired the dry grass in all 
directions. Reeds, similar in appearance to bamboos 
but distinct from them, high water-grass, like sugar- 
canes, excellent fodder for the cattle, and the ever- 
present ambatch, cover the morasses. Innumerable 
mosquitoes. 

Jan. 12th .—Fine breeze in the morning, but obliged 
to wait for the "Clumsy," which arrived at 10 a.m. How 
absurd are some descriptions of the White Nile, which 
state that there is no current ! At some parts, like 
that from just above the Sobat junction to Khartoum, 
there is but little, but since we have left the Bahr el 
Gazal the stream runs from, one and three-quarters to 
two and a half miles per hour, varying in localities. 
Here it is not more than a hundred yards wide in 
clear water. 

At 11.20 a.m. got under weigh with a rattling 
breeze, but scarcely had we been half an hour under 
sail when crack went the great yard of the " Clumsy " 
once more. I had her taken in tow. It is of no use 
repairing the yard again, and, were it not for the 


CHAP. I.] 


FIRST VIEW OF NATIVES. 


61 


donkeys, I would abandon her. Koorshid Aga's boats 
were passing us in full sail when his diahbiah sud¬ 
denly carried away her rudder, and went head first 
into the morass. I serve out grog to the men when 
the drum beats at sunset, if all the boats are together. 



NUEHR NATIVES COMING TO THE BOATS. 


Jan. 13 th .— Stopped near a village on the right bank 
in company with Koorshid Aga's two diahbiahs. The 
natives came down to the boats—they are something 
superlative in the way of savages; the men as naked 


















62 JOCTIAN AND HIS WIFR [chap. i. 

as they came into the world ; their bodies rubbed with 
ashes, and their hair stained red by a plaster of ashes 
and cow's urine. These fellows are the most un¬ 
earthly-looking devils I ever saw—there is no other 
expression for them. The unmarried women are also 
entirely naked; the married have a fringe madb of 
grass around their loins. The men wear heavy coils 
of beads about their necks, two heavy bracelets of 
ivory on the upper portion of the arms, copper 
rings upon the wrists, and a horrible kind of bracelet 
of massive iron armed with spikes about an inch in 
length, like leopard's claws, which they use for a 
similar purpose. The chief of the Nuehr village, 
Joctian, with his wife and daughter, paid me a visit, 
and asked for all they saw in the shape of beads and 
bracelets, but declined a knife as useless. They went 
away delighted with their presents. The women per¬ 
forate the upper lip, and wear an ornament about four 
inches long of beads upon an iron wire; this projects 
like the horn of a rhinoceros ; they are very ugly. The 
men are tall and powerful, armed with lances. They 
carry pipes that contain nearly a quarter of a pound 
of tobacco, in which they smoke simple charcoal should 
the loved tobacco fail. The carbonic acid gas of the 
charcoal produces a slight feeling of intoxication, 
which is the effect desired. Koorshid Aga returned 


CHAP. I.] 


CHARMING HUSBAND . 


63 


them a girl from Khartoum who had been captured 
by a slave-hunter; this delighted the people, and 
they immediately brought an ox as an offering. The 
"Clumsy's" yard broke in two pieces, thus I was obliged 
to seek a dry spot for the necessary repairs. I left the 
village ISfuehr Eliab, and in the evening lowered the 
" Clumsy's " yard; taking her in tow, we are, this 
moment, 8.30 p.m., slowly sailing through clouds of 
mosquitoes looking out for a landing-place in this 
world of marshes. I took the chief of the Nuehr's 
portrait, as he sat in my cabin on the Divan ; of 
course he was delighted. He exhibited his wife's 
arms and back covered with jagged scars, in reply 
to my question as to the use of the spiked iron 
bracelet. Charming people are these poor blacks ! as 
they are termed by English sympathisers; he was 
quite proud of having clawed his wife like a wild 
beast. In sober earnest, my monkey " Wallady " looks 
like a eivilized being compared to these Nuehr savages. 
The chief's forehead was tattooed in horizontal lines 
that had the appearance of wrinkles. The hair is 
worn drawn back from the face. Both men and 
women wear a bag slung from the neck, apparently 
to contain any presents they may receive, everything 
being immediately pocketed. Course S.S.E. 

Jan. 14 th .—All day occupied in repairing the yard ; 


64 


NATRON . 


[chap. I. 


the buffalo hide of the animal that killed Sali Achmet 
being most serviceable in lashing. Sailed in the 
evening in company with a boat belonging to the 
Austrian mission. Eiver about 120 yards of clear 



JOCTIAN, CHIEF OF THE NUEHR TRIBE. 


water; current about two miles per hour. Found 
quantities of natron on the marshy ground bordering 
the river. 

Had a turkey for dinner, a " cadeau " from Koor- 






















































































CHAP. I.] 


CATCH A HIPPOPOTAMUS. 


65 


shid Aga, and, as a great wonder, the kisras (a sort of 
brown pancake in lieu of bread) were free from sand. 
I must have swallowed a good-sized millstone since I 
have been in Africa, in the shape of grit rubbed from 
the moorhaka/ or grinding-stone. The moorhaka, 
when new, is a large flat stone, weighing about forty 
pounds; upon this the corn is ground by being rubbed 
wflth a cylindrical stone with both hands. After a 
few months' use half of the original grinding-stone 
disappears, the grit being mixed with the flour; thus 
the grinding-stone is actually eaten. No wonder that 
hearts become stony in this country ! 

Jan. 15th .—We were towing through high reeds this 
morning, the men invisible, and the rope mowing over 
the high tops of the grass, when the noise disturbed 
a hippopotamus from his slumber, and he was imme¬ 
diately perceived close to the boat. He was about 
half grown, and in an instant about twenty men 
jumped into the water in search of him thinking him 
a mere baby; but as he suddenly appeared, and was 
about three times as large as they had expected, they 
were not very eager to close. However the reis 
Diabb pluckily led the way and seized him by the 
hind leg, when the crowd of men rushed in, and we 
had a grand tussle. Ropes were thrown from the 
vessel, and nooses were quickly slipped over his head, 

VOL. I. F 


66 


" PERHAPS IT WAS HIS UNCLE.' 


[chap. I. 


but he had the best of the struggle and was dragging 
the people into the open river; I was therefore obliged 
to end the sport by putting a ball through his head. 
He was scored all over by the tusks of some other 
hippopotamus that had been bullying him. The men 
declared that his father had thus misused him ; others 
were of opinion that it was his mother; and the argu¬ 
ment ran high, and became hot. These Arabs have 
an extraordinary taste for arguments upon the most 
trifling points. I have frequently known my men 
argue throughout the greater part of the night, and 
recommence the same argument on the following 
morning. These debates generally end in a fight; 
and in the present instance the excitement of the 
hunt only added to the heat of the argument. 
They at length agreed to refer it to me, and both 
parties approached, vociferously advancing their theo¬ 
ries ; one half persisting that the young hippo had 
been bullied by his father, and the others adhering to 
the mother as the cause. I, being referee, suggested 
that " perhaps it was his uncle." Wall Illahi sahe ! 
(By Allah it is true!) Both parties were satis¬ 
fied with the suggestion; dropping their theory they 
became practical, and fell to with knives and axes 
to cut up the cause of the argument. He was as fat 
as butter, and was a perfect godsend to the people, 


chap. I.] REAL TURTLE IS MOCK HIPPOPOTAMUS. 67 

who divided him with great excitement and good 
humour. 

We are now a fleet of seven boats, those of several 
traders having joined us. The " Clumsy's " yard looks 
much better than formerly. I cut off about ten feet 
from the end, as it was topheavy. The yard of this 
class of vessel should look like an immense fishing- 
rod, and should be proportionately elastic, as it tapers 
gradually to a point. Course S.E. I hear that the 
Shillook tribe have attacked Chenooda's people, and 
that his boat was capsized, and some lives lost in 
the hasty retreat. It serves these slave-hunters right, 
and I rejoice at their defeat. Exodus xx. 16 : " And 
he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be 
found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death." 

Jan. 1 6 th .—A new dish ! There is no longer mock- 
turtle soup —real turtle is mock hippopotamus. I 
tried boiling the fat, flesh, and skin together, the result 
being that the skin assumes the appearance of the 
green fat of the turtle, but is far superior. A piece 
of the head thus boiled, and then soused in vinegar, 
with chopped onions, cayenne pepper, and salt, throws 
brawn completely in the shade. My men having 
revelled in a cauldron of hippopotamus soup, I serve 
out grog at sunset, all ships being together. Great 
contentment, all appetites being satisfied. The labour 

F 2 


(58 


RICHARN REDUCED TO THE RANKS. [chap. i. 


of towing through swamps, tugging by the long grass, 
and poling against a strong current, is dreadful, and 
there appears to be no end to this horrible country. 

" On dit," that during the dry season there is plenty 
of game near the river, but at present boundless marshes 
devoid of life, except in the shape of mosquitoes, and 
a very few water-fowl, are the only charms of the 
White Nile. The other day I caught one of the men 
stealing the salt; Eicharn having been aware of daily 
thefts of this treasure, and having failed to report 
them, the thief received twenty with the coorbatch, 
and Eicharn is reduced to the ranks, as I anticipated. 
No possibility of taking observations, as there is no 
landing-place. 

Jan. 17th .—As usual, marshes, mosquitoes, wind¬ 
ings, dead flats, and light winds ; the mosquitoes in 
the cabin give no rest even during the day. Stream 
about two miles per hour. Course S.E.; the river 
averaging about one hundred and ten yards in width 
of clear water. 

Jan. 18 th .—Country as usual, but the wind brisker. 
In company with Koorshid Aga's boats. I have bound 
the stock of Oswelhs old gun with rhinoceros hide. 
All guns made for sport in wild countries and rough 
riding, should have steel instead of iron from the 
breech-socket, extending far back to within six inches 


CHAP. I.] 


ARRIVAL AT TER ZARERBA. 


69 


of the shoulder-plate; the trigger-guard should like¬ 
wise be steel, and should be carried back to an equal 
distance with the above rib ; the steel should be of 
extra thickness, and screwed through to the upper 
piece; thus the two, being connected by screws above 
and below, no fall could break the stock. 

Jan. 1 9 th .—At 8 a.m, we emerged from the appa¬ 
rently endless regions of marsh grass, and saw on the 
right bank large herds of cattle, tended by naked 
natives, in a country abounding with high grass and 
mimosa wood. At 9.15 a.m* arrived at the Zareeba, 
or station of Binder, an Austrian subject, and White 
Nile trader; here we found five noggors belonging to 
him and his partner. Binders vakeel insisted upon 
giving a bullock to my people. This bullock I resisted 
for some time, until I saw that the man was affronted. 
It is impossible to procure from the natives any cattle 
by purchase. The country is now a swamp, but it 
will be passable during the dry season. Took equal 
altitudes of sun producing latitude 7° 5' 46/' The 
misery of these unfortunate blacks is beyond descrip¬ 
tion ; they will not kill their cattle, neither do they 
taste meat unless an animal dies of sickness ; they will 
not work, thus they frequently starve, existing only 
upon rats, lizards, snakes, and upon such fish as they 
can- spear. The spearing of fish is a mere hazard, as 


70 


FISH-SPEARING. 


[chap. I. 

they cast the harpoon at random among the reeds; thus, 
out of three or four hundred casts, they may, by good 
luck, strike a fish. The harpoon is neatly made, and 
is attached to a pliable reed about twenty feet long, 
secured by a long line. Occasionally they strike a 
monster, as there are varieties of fish which attain a 



CHIEF OF KYTOH AND DAUGHTER. 


weight of two hundred pounds. In the event of 
harpooning such a fish, a long and exciting chase is 
the result, as he carries away the harpoon, and runs 
out the entire length of line; they then swim after 




















chap, i ] THE KYTCH TRIBE. 7] 

him, holding their end of the line, and playing him 
until exhausted. 

The chief of this tribe (the Kytch) wore a leopard- 
skin across his shoulders, and a skull-cap of white 
beads, with a crest of white ostrich-feathers ; but the 
mantle was merely slung over his shoulders, and all 
other parts of his person were naked. His daughter 
was the best-looking girl that I have seen among 
the blacks; she was about sixteen. Her clothing 
consisted of a little piece of dressed hide about 
a foot wide slung across her shoulders, all other 
parts being exposed. All the girls of this country 
wear merely a circlet of little iron jingling orna¬ 
ments round their waists. They came in numbers, 
bringing small bundles of wood to exchange for a 
few handfuls of corn. Most of the men are tall, 
but wretchedly thin; the children are mere skeletons, 
and the entire tribe appears thoroughly starved. The 
language is that of the Dinka. The chief carried a 
curious tobacco-box, an iron spike about two feet long, 
with a hollow socket, bound with iguana-skin ; this 
served for either tobacco-box, club, or dagger. Through¬ 
out the whole of this marshy country it is curious 
to observe the number of white ant-hills standing 
above the water in the marshes : these Babel towers 
save their inmates from the deluge ; working during 



bringing small gourd-shells to receive the expected 
corn. The people of this tribe are mere apes, trusting 
entirely to the productions of nature for their subsist¬ 
ence ; they will spend hours in digging out field-mice 


72 WHITE ANT TOWERS. [chap. i. 

the dry season, the white ants carry their hills to so 
great a height (about ten feet), that they can live 
securely in the upper stories during the floods. The 
whole day we are beset by crowds of starving people, 





chap, i.] STARVATION IN THE KYTCH COUNTRY ,. 73 

from their burrows, as we should for rabbits. They 
are the most pitiable set of savages that can be 
imagined; so emaciated, that they have no visible 
posteriors ; they look as though they had been planed 
off, and their long thin legs and arms give them a 
peculiar gnat-like appearance. At night they crouch 
close to the fires, lying in the smoke to escape the 
clouds of mosquitoes. At this season the country is a 
vast swamp, the only dry spots being the white ant¬ 
hills ; in such places the natives herd like wild animals, 
simply rubbing themselves with wood-ashes to keep 
out the cold. 

Jan. 20th .—The river from this spot turns sharp 
to the east, but an arm equally broad comes from 
S. 20 E. to this point. There is no stream from this 
arm. The main stream runs round the angle with a 
rapid current of about two and a half miles per hour. 
The natives say that this arm of dead water extends 
for three or four days sailing, and is then lost in the 
high reeds. My reis Diabb declares this to be a mere 
backwater, and that it is not connected with the main 
river by any positive channel. 

So miserable are the natives of the Kytch tribe, that 
they devour both skins and bones of all dead animals ; 
the bones are pounded between stones, and when re¬ 
duced to powder they are boiled to a kind of porridge ; 


74 


DESTITUTION OF THE NATIVES. 


[chap. I. 


nothing is left even for a fly to feed upon, when an 
animal either dies a natural death, or is killed. I 
never pitied poor creatures more than these utterly 
destitute savages; their method of returning thanks 
is by holding your hand and affecting to spit upon it; 
which operation they do not actually perform, as I have 



THE BOYS WHO HAVE BEGGED. 


seen stated in works upon the White Nile. Their 
domestic arrangements are peculiar. Polygamy is of 
course allowed, as in all other hot climates and savage 
countries; but when a man becomes too old to pay 
sufficient attention to his numerous young wives, the 
eldest son takes the place of his father and becomes 
his substitute. To every herd of cattle there is a 






CHAP. I.] 


THE BULL OF THE HERD. 


75 


sacred bull who is supposed to exert an influence over 
the prosperity of the flocks ; his horns are ornamented 
with tufts of feathers, and frequently with small bells, 
and he invariably leads the great herd to pasture. 
On starting in the early morning from the cattle kraal 
the natives address the bull, telling him "to watch over 
the herd; to keep the cows from straying; and to lead 
them to the sweetest pastures, so that they shall give 
abundance of milk," See. 

Jan. 21 st .—Last night a sudden squall carried 
away Koorshid Aga's mast by the deck, leaving him a 
complete wreck. The weather to-day is dull, oppressive, 
and dead calm. As usual, endless marshes, and mos¬ 
quitoes. I never either saw or heard of so disgusting 
a country as that bordering the White Nile from Khar¬ 
toum to this point. Course S.E. as nearly as I can 
judge, but the endless windings, and the absence of any 
mark as a point, make it difficult to give an accurate 
course—the river about a hundred yards in width of 
clear water; alive with floating vegetation, with a 
current of about two miles per hour. 

Jan. 22 d .—The luxuries of the country as usual— 
malaria, marshes, mosquitoes, misery ; far as the eye 
can reach, vast treeless marshes perfectly lifeless. At 
times progressing slowly by towing, the men struggling 
through the water with the rope ; at other times by 


76 MEN AND BEASTS IN A BAD TEMPER. [ chap . i . 

running round the boat in a circle, pulling with their 
hands at the grass, which thus acts like the cogs of a 
wheel to move us gradually forward. One of my 
horses, " Filfil," out of pure amusement kicks at the men 
as they pass, and having succeeded several times in 
kicking them into the river, he perseveres in the fun, 
I believe for lack of other employment. 

Hippopotami are heard snorting in the high reeds both 
day and night, but we see very few. The black women 
on board are daily quarrelling together and fighting 
like bull-dogs ; little Gaddum Her is a regular black toy 
terrier, rather old, wonderfully strong, very short, but 
making up in spirit for what she lacks in stature ; she 
is the quintessence of vice, being ready for a stand-up 
fight at the shortest notice. On one occasion she 
fought with her antagonist until both fell down the 
bold, smashing all my water jars; on another day they 
both fell into the river. The ennui of this wretched 
voyage appears to try the temper of both man and 
beast; the horses, donkeys, and camels are constantly 
fighting and biting at all around. 

Jan. 23 d .—-At 8 a . m . arrived at Aboukooka, the 
establishment of a French trader. It is impossible to 
describe the misery of the land ; in the midst of the 
vast expanse of marsh is a little plot of dry ground 
about thirty-five yards square, and within thirty yards 


CHAP. I.] 


ABOUKOOKA 


77 


of the river, but to be reached only by wading through 
the swamp. The establishment consisted of about a 
dozen straw huts, occupied by a wretched fever-stricken 
set of people ; the vakeel, and others employed, came 
to the boats to beg for corn. I stopped for ten minutes 
at the charming watering-place Aboukooka to obtain 
the news of the country. The current at this point is 
as usual very strong, being upwards of two and a half 
miles per hour; the river is quite bank-full although 
not actually flooding, the windings endless; one mo¬ 
ment our course is due north, then east, then again 
north, and as suddenly due south; in fact, we face every 
point of the compass within an hour. Frequently the 
noggors that are far in the rear appear in advance; 
it is a heartbreaking river without a single redeeming 
point; I do not wonder at the failure of all expeditions 
in this wretched country. There is a breeze to-day, 
thus the oppressive heat and stagnated marsh atmo¬ 
sphere is relieved. I have always remarked that when 
the sky is clouded we suffer more from heat and op¬ 
pression than when the day is clear ; there is a weight 
in the atmosphere that would be interesting if tested 
by the barometer. 

The water is excessively bad throughout the White 
Nile, especially between the Shillook and the Kytch 
tribes; that of the Bahr Gazal is even worse. The 


78 


AUSTRIAN MISSION STATION. 


[CIIAF. I 


reis Diabb tells me that tbe north wind always fails 
between the Nuehr and the upper portion of the 
Kytch. I could not believe that so miserable a coun¬ 
try existed as the whole of this land. There is no 
game to be seen at this season, few birds, and not even 
crocodiles show themselves; all the water-animals are 
hidden in the high grass; thus there is absolutely 
nothing living to be seen, but day after day is passed 
in winding slowly through the labyrinth of endless 
marsh, through clouds of mosquitoes. 

At 4.20 p.m. arrived at the Austrian mission-station 
of St. Croix, and I delivered a letter to the chief of 
the establishment, Herr Moorlang. 

Jan. 24 th .—Took observations of the sun, making 
latitude 6° 39'. 

The mission-station consists of about twenty grass 
huts on a patch of dry ground close to the river. The 
church is a small huh but neatly arranged. Herr 
.Morlang acknowledged* with great feeling, that the 
mission was absolutely useless among such savages; 
that he had worked , with much zeal for many years, 
but that the natives were utterly impracticable. They 
were far below the brutes, as the latter show signs of 
affection to those who are kind to them ; while the 
natives* on the contrary, are utterly obtuse to all 
feelings of gratitude. He described the people as 


chap, i.] SALE OF THE MISSION-HOUSE. 79 

lying and deceitful to a superlative degree; the more 
they receive the more they desire, but in return they 
will do nothing. 

Twenty or thirty of these disgusting, ash-smeared, 
stark naked brutes, armed with clubs of hard wood 
brought to a point, were lying idly about the station. 
The mission having given up the White Nile as 
a total failure, Herr Morlang sold the whole village 
and mission-station to Koorshid Aga this morning for 
3,000 piastres, £30 ! I purchased a horse of the 
missionaries for 1,000 piastres, which I christened 
" Priest," as coming from the mission; he is a good- 
looking animal, and has been used to the gun, as the 
unfortunate Baron Harnier rode him buffalo-hunting. 
This good sportsman was a Prussian nobleman, who, 
with two European attendants, had for some time 
amused himself by collecting objects of natural history 
and shooting in this neighbourhood. Both his Euro¬ 
peans succumbed to marsh fever. The end of Baron 
Harnier was exceedingly tragic. Having wounded a 
buffalo, the animal charged a native attendant and 
threw him to the ground; Baron Harnier was un¬ 
loaded, and with great courage he attacked the buffalo 
with the butt-end of his rifle to rescue the man then 
beneath the animal's horns. The buffalo left the man 
and turned upon his new assailant. The native, far 


80 MELANCHOLY FATE OF BARON HARNIER. [chap. i. 

from assisting his master, who had thus jeopardized 
his life to save him, fled from the spot. The unfor¬ 
tunate baron was found by the missionaries trampled 
and gored into an undistinguisliable mass; and the 
dead body of the buffalo was found at a short dis¬ 
tance, the animal having been mortally wounded. I 
went to see the grave of this brave Prussian, who had 
thus sacrificed so noble a life for so worthless an object 
as a cowardly native. It had been well cared for by 
the kind hands of the missionaries, and was protected 
by thorn bushes laid around it, but I fear it will be 
neglected now that the mission has fallen into unholy 
hands. It is a pitiable sight to witness the self- 
sacrifice that many noble men have made in these 
frightful countries without any good results. Near 
to the grave of Baron Harnier are those of several 
members of the mission, who have left their bones in 
this horrid land, while not one convert has been made 
from the mission of St. Croix. 

The river divides into two branches, about five 
miles above this station, forming an island. Upon 
this is a fishing-station of the natives; the native 
name of the spot is Pomone. The country is swampy 
and scantily covered with bushes and small trees, but 
no actual timber. As usual, the entire country is 
dead flat; it abounds with elephants a few miles 


chap, i.] THE ALIAB TRIBE. 8i 

inland. Herr Morlang describes the whole of the 
White Nile traders as a mere colony of robbers, who 
pillage and shoot the natives at discretion. 

On the opposite side of the river there is a large 
neglected garden, belonging to the mission. Although 
the soil is extremely rich, neither grapes nor pome¬ 
granate will succeed ; they bear fruit, but of a very 
acrid flavour. Dates blossom, but will not fruit. 

Jan. 25th .—Started at 7 a.m. Course S.E. 

Jan. 26th .—The Bohr tribe on the east bank. No 
wind. The current nearly three miles per hour. The 
river about a hundred and twenty yards wide in clear 
water. Marshes and flats, as usual. Thermometer, 
throughout the journey, at 6 A.M., 68° Fahr., and at 
noon 86° to 93° Fahr.. 

Jan. 27th .—One day is a repetition of the pre¬ 
ceding. 

Jan. 28£/l—P assed two bivouacs of the Aliab tribe, 
with great herds of cattle on the west bank. The 
natives appeared to be friendly, dancing and gesticu¬ 
lating as the boats passed. The White Nile tribe not 
only milk their cows, but they bleed their cattle perio¬ 
dically, and boil the blood for food. Driving a lance 
into a vein in the neck, they bleed the animal copi¬ 
ously, which operation is repeated about once a month. 

Jan. 29 th .—Passed a multitude of cattle and natives 


VOL. i. 


G 


82 


TUMULI OF ASHES. 


[chap. I. 


on a spot on tlie right bank, in clonds of smoke as a 
" chasse des moustiques." They make tumuli of dung, 
which are constantly on fire, fresh fuel being con¬ 
tinually added, to drive away the mosquitoes. Around 
these heaps the cattle crowd in hundreds, living with 
the natives in the smoke. By degrees the heaps of 
ashes become about eight feet high; they are then 
used as sleeping-places and watch-stations by the 
natives, who, rubbing themselves all over with the 
ashes, have a ghastly and devilish appearance that is 
indescribable. The country is covered with old tumuli 
formed in this manner. A camp may contain twenty 
or thirty such, in addition to fresh heaps that are 
constantly burning. Fires of cow-dung are also made 
on the levelled tops of the old heaps, and bundles of 
green canes, about sixteen feet high, are planted on 
the summit; these wave in the breeze like a plume 
of ostrich feathers, and give shade to the people during 
the heat of the day. 

Jan. 30 til .—Arrived at the "Shir" tribe. The 
men are, as usual in these countries, armed with 
well-made ebony clubs, two lances, a bow (always 
strung), and a bundle of arrows; their hands are 
completely full of weapons ; and they carry a neatly- 
made miniature stool slung upon their backs, in addi¬ 
tion to an immense pipe. Thus a man carries all 


CHAP. I.] 


THE SHIR TRIBE. 


83 


that he most values about his person. The females 
in this tribe are not absolutely naked ; like those of the 
Kytch, they wear small lappets of tanned leather as 
broad as the hand ; at the back of the belt, which 
supports this apron, is a tail which reaches to the 
lower portions of the thighs ; this tail is formed of 
finely-cut strips of leather, and the costume has doubt¬ 
less been the foundation for the report I had received 
from the Arabs, "that a tribe in Central Africa had 
tails like horses" The women carry their children 
very conveniently in a skin slung from their shoulders 
across the back, and secured by a thong round the 
waist; in this the young savage sits delightfully. The 
huts throughout all tribes are circular, with entrances 
so low that the natives creep both in and out upon 
their hands and knees. The men wear tufts of cock's 
feathers on the crown of the head; and their favourite 
attitude, when standing, is on one leg while leaning 
on a spear, the foot of the raised leg resting on the 
inside of the other knee. Their arrows are about 
three feet long, without feathers, and pointed with 
hard wood instead of iron, the metal being scarce 
among the Shir tribe. The most valuable article of 
barter for this tribe is the iron hoe generally used 
among the White Nile negroes. In form it is pre¬ 
cisely similar to the "ace of spades." The finery most 

a 2 


84 


THE LOTUS HARVEST. 


[chap. I. 


prized by the women are polished iron anklets, which 
they wear in such numbers that they reach nearly 
half way up the calf of the leg ; the tinkling of these 
rings is considered to be very enticing, but the sound 
reminds one of the clanking of convicts' fetters. 

All the tribes of the White Nile have their harvest 
of the lotus seed. There are two species of water- 
lily—the large white flower, and a small variety. The 
seed-pod of the white lotus is like an unblown arti¬ 
choke, containing a number of light red grains equal 
in size to mustard-seed, but shaped like those of the 
poppy, and similar to them in flavour, being sweet 
and nutty. The ripe pods are collected and strung 
upon sharp-pointed reeds about four feet in length. 
When thus threaded they are formed into large bun¬ 
dles, and carried from the river to the villages, where 
they are dried in the sun, and stored for use. The 
seed is ground into flour, and made into a kind of 
porridge. The women of the Shir tribe are very 
clever at manufacturing; baskets and mats from the 
leaf of the dome palm. They also make girdles and 
necklaces of minute pieces of river mussel shells 
threaded upon the hair of the giraffe s tail. This is 
a work of great time, and the effect is about equal 
to a string of mother-of-pearl buttons. 

Jan. 31 st .—At 1.15 p.m. sighted Gebel Lardo, bear- 


CHAP. I.] 


ARRIVAL AT GONDOKORO. 


85 


ing S. 30° west. This is the first mountain we have 
seen, and we are at last near our destination, Gondo- 
koro. I observed to-day a common sand-piper sitting 
on the head of a hippopotamus ; when he disappeared 
under water the bird skimmed over the surface, hover¬ 
ing near the spot until the animal reappeared, when 
he again settled. 

Feb. 1st. —The character of the river has changed. 
The marshes have given place to dry ground ; the 
banks are about four feet above the water-level, and 
well wooded; the country having the appearance of 
an orchard, and being thickly populated. The natives 
thronged to the boats, being astonished at the camels. 
At one village during the voyage the natives examined 
the donkeys with great curiosity, thinking that they 
were the oxen of our country, and that we were bring¬ 
ing them to exchange for ivory. 

Feb. 2d. —The mountain Lardo is about twelve 
miles west of the river. At daybreak we sighted the 
mountains near Gondokoro, bearing due south. As 
yet I have seen no symptoms of hostility in this 
country. I cannot help thinking that the conduct of 
the natives depends much upon that of the traveller. 
Arrived at Gondokoro. 

By astronomical observation I determined the lati¬ 
tude 4° 55' N. Longitude 31° 46' E. 


8(5 


DISCHARGE CARGO. 


[chap. r. 


Gondokoro is a great improvement upon the inter¬ 
minable marshes ; the soil is firm and raised about 
twenty feet above the river level. Distant mountains 
relieve the eye accustomed to the dreary flats of the 
White Nile ; and evergreen trees scattered over the 
face of the landscape, with neat little native villages 
beneath their shade, form a most inviting landing- 
place after a long and tedious voyage. This spot was 
formerly a mission-station. There remain to this day 
the ruins of the brick establishment and church, and 
the wreck of what was once a garden ; groves of 
citron and lime-trees still exist, the only signs that 
an attempt at civilization has been made—" seed cast 
upon the wayside." There is no town. Gondokoro 
is merely a station of the ivory traders, occupied for 
about two months during the year, after which time 
it is deserted, when the annual boats return to Khar¬ 
toum and the remaining expeditions depart for the 
interior. A few miserable grass huts are all that 
dignify the spot with a name. The climate is un¬ 
healthy and hot. The thermometer from 90° to 95° 
Fahr. at noon in the shade. 

I landed the animals from the boats in excellent 
condition, all rejoicing in the freedom of open pas¬ 
turage. 


CHAPTEK II. 


BAD RECEPTION AT GONDOKORO. 

All were thankful that the river voyage was con¬ 
cluded ; the tedium of the White Nile will have been 
participated by the reader, upon whom I have inflicted 
the journal, as no other method of description could 
possibly convey an idea of the general desolation. 

Having landed all my stores, and housed my corn in 
some granaries belonging to Koorshid Aga, 1 took a 
receipt from him for the quantity, and gave him an 
order to deliver one-half from my depot to Speke and 
Grant, should they arrive at Gondokoro during my 
absence in the interior. I was under an apprehension 
that they might arrive by some route without my 
knowledge, while I should be penetrating south. 

There were a great number of men at Gondokoro 

O 

belonging to the various traders, who looked upon me 
with the greatest suspicion ; they could not believe 


88 REPORTS OF SPEKE AND GRANT. [chap. ii. 

that simple travelling was my object, and they were 
shortly convinced that I was intent npon espionage in 
their nefarious ivory business and slave-hunting. 

In conversing with the traders, and assuring them 
that my object was entirely confined to a search for 
the Nile sources, and an inquiry for Speke and Grant, 
I heard a curious report that had been brought down 
by the natives from the interior, that at some great 
distance to the south there were two white men who 
had been for a long time prisoners of a sultan; and 
that these men had wonderful fireworks ; that both had 
been very ill, and that one had died. 

It was in vain that I endeavoured to obtain some 
further clue to this exciting report. There was a 
rumour that some native had a piece of wood with 
marks upon it that had belonged to the white men; 
but upon inquiry I found that this account was only a 
report given by some distant tribe. Nevertheless, I 
attached great importance to the rumour, as there was 
no white man south of Gondokoro engaged in the 
ivory trade ; therefore there was a strong probability 
that the report had some connexion with the existence 
of Speke and Grant. I had heard, when in Khartoum, 
that the most advanced trading station was about 
fifteen days' march from Gondokoro, and my plan of 
operations had always projected a direct advance to 


CHAP. II.] 


TEE BARI TRIBE. 


89 


that station, where I had intended to leave all my 
heavy baggage in depot, and to proceed from thence as 
a "point de depart " to the south. I now understood 
that the party were expected to arrive at Gondokoro 
from that station with ivory in a few days, and I 
determined to wait for their arrival, and to return with 
them in company. Their ivory porters returning, 
might carry my baggage, and thus save the backs of 
my transport animals. 

I accordingly amused myself at Gondokoro, exer¬ 
cising my horses in riding about the neighbourhood, 
and studying the place and people. 

The native dwellings are the perfection of cleanli¬ 
ness ; the domicile of each family is surrounded by a 
hedge of the impenetrable euphorbia, and the interior 
of the inclosure generally consists of a yard neatly 
plastered with a cement of ashes, cow-dung, and 
sand. Upon this cleanly-swept surface are one or 
more huts surrounded by granaries of neat wicker¬ 
work, thatched, resting upon raised platforms. The 
huts have projecting roofs in order to afford a 
shade, and the entrance is usually about two feet 
high. 

When a member of the family dies he is buried in 
the yard ; a few ox-horns and skulls are suspended on 
a pole above the spot, while the top of the pole is 


90 DESCRIPTION OP THE NATIVES. [chap. it. 

ornamented with a bunch of cock's feathers. Every 
man carries his weapons, pipe, and stool, the whole 
(except the stool) being held between his legs when 
standing. These natives of Gondokoro are the Bari: 
the men are well grown, the women are not prepos¬ 
sessing, but the negro type of thick lips and flat nose 
is wanting; their features are good, and the woolly hair 
alone denotes the trace of negro blood. They are 
tattooed upon the stomach, sides, and back, so closely, 
that it has the appearance of a broad belt of fish- 
scales, especially when they are rubbed with red ochre, 
which is the prevailing fashion. This pigment is made 
of a peculiar clay, rich in oxide of iron, which, when 
burnt, is reduced to powder, and then formed into 
lumps like pieces of soap ; both sexes anoint them¬ 
selves with this ochre, formed into a paste by the 
admixture of grease, giving themselves the appearance 
of new red bricks. The only hair upon their persons 
is a small tuft upon the crown of the head, in which 
they stick one or more feathers. The women are 
generally free from hair, their heads being shaved. 
They wear a neat little lappet, about six inches long, 
of beads, or of small iron rings, worked like a coat of 
mail, in lieu of a fig-leaf, and the usual tail of fine 
shreds of leather or twine, spun from indigenous cotton, 
pendant behind. Both the lappet and tail are fastened 



A Homestead of the Bari Tribe—the usual Attitude oi the Men. 




















































































































































































































CHAP. II.] 


EFFECTS OF POISONED ARROWS. 


91 


on a belt which is worn round the loins, like those in 
the Shir tribe ; thus the toilette is completed at once. 
It would be highly useful, could they only wag their 
tails to whisk off the flies which are torments in this 
country. 

The cattle are very small; the goats and sheep are 
quite Lilliputian, but they generally give three at a 
birth, and thus multiply quickly. The people of the 
country were formerly friendly, but the Khartoumers 
pillage and murder them at discretion in all directions ; 
thus, in revenge, they will shoot a poisoned arrow at a 
stranger unless he is powerfully escorted. The effect 
of the poison used for the arrow-heads is very extra¬ 
ordinary. A man came to me for medical aid; five 
months ago he had been wounded by a poisoned arrow 
in the leg, below the calf, and the entire foot had been 
eaten away by the action of the poison. The bone 
rotted through just above the ankle, and the foot 
dropped off. The most violent poison is the produce 
of the root of a tree, whose milky juice yields a resin 
that is smeared upon the arrow. It is brought from a 
great distance, from some country far west of Gon- 
dokoro. The juice of the species of euphorbia, common 
in these countries, is also used for poisoning arrows. 
Boiled to the consistence of tar, it is then smeared 
upon the blade. The action of the poison is to corrode 


92 HOSTILITY OF THE BARI TRIBE . [chap. ii. 

the flesh, which loses its fibre, and drops away like 
jelly, after severe inflammation and swelling. The 
arrows are barbed with diabolical ingenuity ; some are 
arranged with poisoned heads that fit into sockets ; 
these detach from the arrow on an attempt to withdraw 
them; thus the barbed blade, thickly smeared with 
poison, remains in the wound, and before it can be cut 
out the poison is absorbed by the system. Fortunately 
the natives are bad archers. The bows are invariably 
made of the male bamboo, and are kept perpetually 
strung ; they are exceedingly stiff, but not very elastic, 
and the arrows are devoid of feathers, being simple 
reeds or other light wood, about three feet long, and 
slightly knobbed at the base as a hold for the finger 
and thumb ; the string is never drawn with the two 
fore-fingers, as in most countries, but is simply pulled 
by holding the arrow between the middle joint of the 
fore-finger and the thumb. A stiff bow drawn in this 
manner has very little power; accordingly the extreme 
range seldom exceeds a hundred and ten yards. 

The Bari tribe are very hostile, and are considered 
to be about the worst of the White Nile. They have 
been so often defeated by the traders' parties in the 
immediate neighbourhood of Gondokoro, that they are 
on their best behaviour, while within half a mile of 
the station; but it is not at all uncommon to be 


chap, ii.] ATROCITIES OF THE TRADING PARTIES. 93 

asked for beads as a tax for the right of sitting under 
a shady tree, or for passing through the country. The 
traders' people, in order to terrify them into submission, 
were in the habit of binding them, hands and feet, and 
carrying them to the edge of a cliff about thirty feet 
high, a little beyond the ruins of the old mission-house : 
beneath this cliff the river boils in a deep eddy ; into 
this watery grave the victims were remorselessly hurled 
as food for crocodiles. It appeared that this punish¬ 
ment was dreaded by the natives more than the bullet 
or rope, and it was accordingly adopted by the trading 
parties. 

Upon my arrival at Gondokoro I was looked upon 
by all these parties as a spy sent by the British Govern¬ 
ment. Whenever I approached the encampments of 
the various traders, I heard the clanking of fetters 
before I reached the station, as the slaves were being 
quickly driven into hiding-places to avoid inspection. 
They were chained by two rings secured round the 
ankles, and connected by three or four links. One of 
these traders was a Copt, the father of the American 
Consul at Khartoum; and, to my surprise, I saw the 
vessel full of brigands arrive at Gondokoro, with the 
American flag flying at the mast-head. 

Gondokoro was a perfect hell. It is utterly ignored 
by the Egyptian authorities, although well known to 


94 LAWLESSNESS AT GONDOKORO. [chap. n. 

be a colony of cut-throats. Nothing would be easier 
than to send a few officers and two hundred men from 
Khartoum to form a military government, and thus 
impede the slave-trade ; but a bribe from the traders 
to the authorities is sufficient to insure an uninter¬ 
rupted asylum for any amount of villainy. The camps 
were full of slaves, and the Bari natives assured me 
that there were large depots of slaves in the interior 
belonging to the traders that would be marched to 
Gondokoro for shipment to the Soudan a few hours 
after my departure. I was the great stumbling-block 
to the trade, and my presence at Gondokoro was con¬ 
sidered as an unwarrantable intrusion upon a locality 
sacred to slavery and iniquity. There were about six 
hundred of the traders' people at Gondokoro, whose 
time was passed'in drinking, quarrelling, and ill-treating 
the slaves. The greater number were in a constant 
state of intoxication, and when in such a state, it was 
their invariable custom to fire off their guns in the 
first direction prompted by their drunken instincts; 
thus, from morning till night, guns were popping in 
all quarters, and the bullets humming through the air 
sometimes close to our ears, and on more than one 
occasion they struck up the dust at my feet. Nothing 
was more probable than a ball through the head by 
accident , which might have had the beneficial effect of 


CHAP. II.] 


A BOY SHOT. 


95 


ridding the traders from a spy. A boy was sitting 
upon the gunwale of one of the boats, when a bullet 
suddenly struck him in the head, shattering the skull 
to atoms. No one had done it. The body fell into 
the water, and the fragments of the skull were scat¬ 
tered on the deck. 

After a few days detention at Gondokoro, I saw 
unmistakable signs of discontent among my men, who 
had evidently been tampered with by the different 
traders' parties. One evening several of the most dis¬ 
affected came to me with a complaint that they had 
not enough meat, and that they must be allowed to 
make a razzia upon the cattle of the natives to procure 
some oxen. This demand being of course refused, 
they retired, muttering in an insolent manner their 
determination of stealing cattle with or without my 
permission. I said nothing at the time, but early on 
the following morning I ordered the drum to beat, and 
the men to fall in. I made them a short address, 
reminding them of the agreement made at Khartoum 
to follow me faithfully, and of the compact that had 
been entered into, that they were neither to indulge in 
slave-hunting nor in cattle-stealing. The only effect 
of my address was a great outbreak of insolence on 
the part of the ringleader of the previous evening. 
This fellow, named Eesur, was an Arab, and his imper- 


96 


THE FIRST MUTINY. 


[chap. II. 


tinence was so violent, that I immediately ordered him 
twenty-five lashes, as an example to the others. 

Upon the vakeel (Saati) advancing to seize him, 
there was a general mutiny. Many of the men threw 
down their guns and seized sticks, and rushed to the 
rescue of their tall ringleader. Saati was a little man, 
and was perfectly helpless. Here was an escort! 
these were the men upon whom I was to depend in 
hours of difficulty and danger on an expedition in 
unknown regions ; these were the fellows that I had 
considered to be reduced " from wolves to lambs !" 

I was determined not to be done, and to insist upon 
the punishment of the ringleader. I accordingly went 
towards him with the intention of seizing him ; but 
he, being backed by upwards of forty men, had the im¬ 
pertinence to attack me, rushing forward with a fury 
that was ridiculous. To stop his blow, and to knock 
him into the middle of the crowd, was not difficult; 
and after a rapid repetition of the dose, I disabled 
him, and seizing him by the throat, I called to my 
vakeel Saati for a rope to bind him, but in an instant 
I had a crowd of men upon me to rescue their leader. 
How the affair would have ended I cannot say ; but as 
the scene lay within ten yards of my boat, my wife, 
who was ill with fever in the cabin, witnessed the 
whole affray, and seeing me surrounded, she rushed 


DECISION OF MY WIFE. 


CHAP. II.] 


97 


out, and in a few moments slie was in the middle of 
the crowd, who at that time were endeavouring to 
rescue my prisoner. Her .sudden appearance had a 
curious effect, and calling upon several of the least 
mutinous to assist, she very pluckily made her way up 
to me. Seizing the opportunity of an indecision that 
was for the moment evinced by the crowd, I shouted 
to the drummer-boy to beat the drum. In an instant 
the drum beat, and at the top of my voice I ordered 
the men to " fall in." It is curious how mechanically 
an order is obeyed if given at the right moment, even 
in the midst of mutiny. Two-thirds of the men fell 
in, and formed in line, while the remainder retreated 
with the ringleader, Eesur, whom they led away, 
declaring that he was badly hurt. The affair ended in 
my insisting upon all forming in line, and upon the 
ringleader being brought forward. In this critical 
moment Mrs. Baker, with great tact, came forward and 
implored me to forgive him if he kissed my hand and 
begged for pardon. This compromise completely won 
the men, who, although a few minutes before in open 
mutiny, now called upon their ringleader Eesur to 
apologise, and that all would be right. I made them 
rather a bitter speech, and dismissed them. 

From that moment I knew that my expedition was 
fated. This outbreak was an example of what was to 


VOL. i. 


H 


98 THE KHARTOUM ESCORT. [chap. ii. 

follow. Previous to leaving Khartoum I had felt con¬ 
vinced that I could not succeed with such villains for 
escort as these Khartoumers : thus I had applied to 
the Egyptian authorities for a few troops, hut had been 
refused. I was now in an awkward position. All my 
men had received five months' wages in advance, ac¬ 
cording to the custom of the White Nile ; thus I had 
no control over them. There were no Egyptian 
authorities in Gondokoro ; it was a nest of robbers; 
and my men had just exhibited so pleasantly their 
attachment to me, and their fidelity. There was no 
European beyond Gondokoro, thus I should be the only 
white man among this colony of wolves; and I had in 
perspective a difficult and uncertain path, where the 
only chance of success lay in the complete discipline 
of my escort, and the perfect organization of the ex¬ 
pedition. After the scene just enacted I felt sure that 
my escort would give me more cause of anxiety than 
the acknowledged hostility of the natives. 

I made arrangements with a Circassian trader, Koor- 
shid Aga, for the purchase of a few oxen, and a fat 
beast was immediately slaughtered for the men. They 
were shortly in the best humour, feasting upon masses 
of flesh cut in strips and laid for a few minutes upon 
the embers, while the regular meal was being prepared. 
They were now almost affectionate, vowing that they 


CHAP. II.] 


ARRIVAL OF SPEKE AND GRANT. 


99 


would follow me to the end of the world; while the 
late ringleader, in spite of his countenance being rather 
painted in the late row, declared that no man would 
be so true as himself, and that every " arrow should 
pass through him before it should reach me 5 ' in the 
event of a conflict with the natives. A very slight 
knowledge of human nature was required to foresee 
the future with such an escort:—if love and duty 
were dependent upon full bellies, mutiny and disorder 
would appear with hard fare. However, by having 
parade every morning at a certain hour I endeavoured 
to establish a degree of regularity,, I had been waiting 
at Gondokoro twelve days, expecting the arrival of 
Debono's party from the south, with whom I wished 
to return. Suddenly, on the 15th February, I heard 
the rattle of musketry at a great distance, and a 
dropping fire from the south. To give an idea of the 
moment I must extract verbatim from my journal as 
written at the time. 

" Guns firing in the distance; Debono's ivory por¬ 
ters arriving, for whom I have waited. My men 
rushed madly to my boat, with the report that two 
white men were with them who had come from the 
sea! Could they be Speke and Grant ? Off I ran, 
and soon met them in reality; hurrah for old Eng¬ 
land !! they had come from the Victoria N'yanza, 

H 2 


100 GLADNESS AT MEETING THEM. [chap. ii. 

from which the Nile springs. . . . The mystery of 
ages solved. With my pleasure of meeting them is 
the one disappointment, that I had not met them 
farther on the road in my search for them; however, 
the satisfaction is, that my previous arrangements had 
been such as would have insured my finding them had 
they, been in a fix. . . . My projected route would have 
brought me vis-a-vis with them, as they had come 
from the lake by the course I had proposed to take. . . . 
All my men perfectly mad with excitement, firing 
salutes as usual with ball cartridge, they shot one of 
my donkeys; a melancholy sacrifice as an offering at 
the completion of this geographical discovery." 

When I first met them they were walking along the 
bank of the river towards my boats. At a distance of 
about a hundred yards I recognised my old friend 
Speke, and with a heart beating with joy I took off 
my cap and gave a welcome hurrah ! as I ran towards 
him. For the moment he did not recognise me ; ten 
years' growth of beard and moustache had worked a 
change; and as I was totally unexpected, my sudden 
appearance in the centre of Africa, appeared to him 
incredible. I hardly required an introduction to his 
companion, as we felt already acquainted, and after the 
transports of this happy meeting we walked together 
to my dialibiah ; my men surrounding us with smoke 


CHAP. TI.] 


THEIR APPEARANCE. 


101 


and noise by keeping up an unremitting fire of musketry 
the whole way. We were shortly seated on deck under 
the awning, and such rough fare as could be hastily 
prepared was set before these two ragged, careworn 
specimens of African travel, whom I looked upon with 
feelings of pride as my own countrymen. As a good 
ship arrives in harbour, battered and torn by a long 
and stormy voyage, yet sound in her frame and sea¬ 
worthy to the last, so both these gallant travellers 
arrived in Gondokoro. Speke appeared the more worn 
of the two ; he was excessively lean, but in reality he 
was in good tough condition ; he had walked the whole 
way from Zanzibar, never having once ridden during 
that wearying march. Grant was in honourable rags > 
his bare knees projecting through the remnants of 
browsers that were an exhibition of rough industry in 
tailors work. He was looking tired and feverish, but 
both men had a fire in the eye that showed the spirit 
that had led them through. 

They wished to leave Gondokoro as soon as possible, 
en route for England, but delayed their departure until 
the moon should be in a position for an observation 
for determining the longitude. My boats were fortu¬ 
nately engaged by me for five months, thus Speke 
and Grant could take charge of them to Khartoum. 

At the first blush on meeting them I had considered 


J02 SPEKE AND GRANT'S DISCOVERIES. [chap. ii. 

my expedition as terminated by having met them, and 
by their having accomplished the discovery of the Nile 
source; but upon my congratulating them with all my 
heart, upon the honour they had so nobly earned, 
Speke and Grant with characteristic candour and gene¬ 
rosity gave me a map of their route, showing that they 
had been unable to complete the actual exploration of 
the Nile, and that a most important portion still re¬ 
mained to be determined. It appeared that in N. lat. 
2° 17', they had crossed the Nile, which they had tracked 
from the Victoria Lake; but the river, which from its 
exit from that lake had a northern course, turned sud¬ 
denly to the west from Karuma Falls (the point at 
which they crossed it at lat. 2° 17'). They did not see 
the Nile again until they arrived in N. lat. 3° 32', which 
was then flowing from the W.S.W. The natives and 
the King of Unyoro (Kamrasi) had assured them that 
the Nile from the Victoria N'yanza, which they had 
crossed at Karuma, flowed westward for several days' 
journey, and at length fell into a large lake called the 
Luta N'zige; that this lake came from the south, and 
that the Nile on entering the northern extremity almost 
immediately made its exit, and as a navigable river con¬ 
tinued its course to the north, through the Koshi and 
.Madi countries. Both Speke and Grant attached great 
importance to this lake Luta N'zige, and the former 


chap, ii.] ANOTHER LAKE REPORTED TO EXIST. 103 

was much annoyed that it had been impossible for 
them to carry out the exploration. He foresaw that 
stay-at-home geographers, who, with a comfortable 
arm-chair to sit in, travel so easily with their fingers 
on a map, would ask him why he had not gone from 
such a place to such a place ? why he had not followed 
the Nile to the Luta N'zige lake, and from the lake to 
Gondokoro ? As it happened, it was impossible for 
Speke and Grant to follow the Nile from Karuma :— 
the tribes were fighting with Kamrasi, and no strangers 
could have got through the country. Accordingly they 
procured their information most carefully, completed 
their map, and laid down the reported lake in its sup¬ 
posed position, showing the Nile as both influent and 
effluent precisely as had been explained by the natives. 

Speke expressed his conviction that the Luta N'zige 
must be a second source of the Nile, and that geogra¬ 
phers would be dissatisfied that he had not explored it. 
To me this was most gratifying. I had been much 
disheartened at the idea that the great work was ac¬ 
complished, and that nothing remained for exploration ; 
I even said to Speke, " Does not one leaf of the laurel 
remain for me ? " I now heard that the field was not 
only open, but that an additional interest was given to 
the exploration by the proof that the Nile flowed out 
of one great lake, the Victoria, but that it evidently 


104 


SPEKE'S INSTRUCTIONS 


[chap. II. 


must derive an additional supply from an unknown 
lake as it entered it at the northern extremity, while the 
body of the lake came from the south. The fact of a 
great body of water such as the Luta Nxige extending 
in a direct line from south to north, while the general 
system of drainage of the Nile was from the same di¬ 
rection, showed most conclusively, that the Luta Nzige, 
if it existed in the form assumed, must have an im¬ 
portant position in the basin of the Nile. 

My expedition had naturally been rather costly, and 
being in excellent order it would have been heart- 
breaking to have returned fruitlessly. I therefore 
arranged immediately for my departure, and Speke 
most kindly wrote in my journal such instructions as 
might be useful. I therefore copy them verbatim :—• 

" Before you leave this be sure you engage two 
men, one speaking the Bari or Madi language, and 
one speaking Kinyoro, to be your interpreters through 
the whole journey, for there are only two distinct 
families of languages in the country, though of course 
some dialectic differences, which can be easily over¬ 
come by anybody who knows the family language. . . . 
Now, as you are bent on first going to visit Kamrasi 
M'Kamma, or King of Unyoro, and then to see as 
much of the western countries bordering on the little 
Luta N'z.ige, or " dead locust " lake, as possible, go 


CHAP. II.] 


SPEKE'S INSTRUCTIONS. 


105 


in company with the ivory hunters across the Asna 
river to Apucldo eight marches, and look for game 
to the east of that village. Two marches further on 
will bring yon to Panyoro, where there are antelopes 
in great quantity ; and in one march more the Turks' 
farthest outpost, Faloro, will be reached, where yon had 
better form a depot, and make a flying trip across the 
White Nile to Koshi for the purpose of inquiring 
what tribes live to west and south of it, especially of 
the Wallegga; how the river comes from the south, 
and where it is joined by the little Luta N'zige. 
Inquire also after the country of Chopi, and what 
difficulties or otherwise you would have to overcome 
if you followed up the left bank of the White river 
to Kamrasi's; because, if found easy, it would be far 
nearer and better to reach Kamrasi that way than 
going through the desert jungles of Ukidi, as we went. 
This is the way I should certainly go myself, but if 
you do not like the look of it, preserve your infor¬ 
mation well; and after returning to Faloro, make 
Koki per Chougi in two marches, and tell old Chougi 
you wish to visit his M'Kamma Kamrasi, for Chougi 
was appointed Governor-general of that place by 
Kamrasi to watch the Wakidi, who live between his 
residence and Chopi, which is the next country you 
will reach after passing through the jungles of Ukidi 


106 


SPEKE'S INSTRUCTIONS. 


[chap. II. 


and crossing the Nile below Karuma Falls. Arrived 
at Chopi, inquire for the residence of the Katikiro 
or commander-in-chief, who will show you great 
respect, give you cows and pombe, and send mes¬ 
sengers on to Kamrasi to acquaint him of your inten¬ 
tion to visit him. This is the richest part of Kam- 
rasi's possessions, and by a little inquiry you will 
learn much about the lake. Kamrasi's brother Eionga 
lives on a river island within one march of this. They 
are deadly enemies and always fighting, so if you 
made a mistake and went to Rionga's first, as the 
Turks would wish you to do, all travelling in Unyoro 
would be cut off. Tell the Katikiro all your plans 
frankly, and remark earnestly upon my great dis¬ 
pleasure at Kamrasfs having detained me so long in 
his country without deigning to see me, else he may 
be assured no other white man will ever take the 
trouble to see him. We came down the river in boats 
from Kamrasfs to Chopi, but the boatmen gave much 
trouble, therefore it would be better for you to go 
overland. Kamrasi will most likely send Kidgwiga, 
an excellent officer, to escort you to his palace, but 
if he does not, ask after him ; you could not have 
a better man. 

" Arrived at Kamrasfis, insist upon seeing all his 
fat wives and brothers. Find out all you can about 


CHAP. II.] 


SPEKE'S INSTRUCTIONS. 


107 


his pedigree, and ask for leave to follow up the lake 
from its junction with the Nile to Utumbi, and then 
crossing to its northern bank follow it down to U1- 
legga and Koshi. If you are so fortunate as to reach 
Utumbi, and don't wish to go farther south, inquire 
well about Ruanda, the M'Fumbiro mountains, if there 
is any copper in Ruanda, and whether or not the 
people of those countries receive Simbi (the cowrie 
shell) or any other articles of merchandize from the 
west coast, guarding well that no confusion is made 
with the trade of Karagwe, for Rumanika sends men 
to Utumbi ivory-hunting continually. 

" Remember well that the Wahuma are most likely 
Gallas; this question is most interesting, and the more 
you can gather of their history, since they crossed the 
White Nile, the better. Formerly Unyoro, Uganda, 
and Uddhu were all united in one vast kingdom 
called Kittara, but this name is now only applied to 
certain portions of that kingdom. 

" Nothing is known of the mountains of the moon 
to the westward of Ruanda. In Unyoro the king will 
feed you ; beyond that I suspect you will have to buy 
food with beads." 

Such was the information most kindly written by 
Speke, which, in addition to a map drawn by Captain 
G-rant, and addressed to the Secretary of the Royal 


108 ARRANGE TO EXPLORE THE LUTA N'ZIGE. [chap. ii. 

Geographical Society, was to be my guide in the 
important exploration resolved upon. I am particular 
in publishing these details, in order to show the per¬ 
fect freedom from jealousy of both Captains Speke and 
Grant. Unfortunately, in most affairs of life, there is 
not only fair emulation, but ambition is too often 
combined with intense jealousy of others. Had this 
miserable feeling existed in the minds of Speke and 
Grant, they would have returned to England with the 
sole honour of discovering the source of the N ile ; but 
in their true devotion to geographical science, and 
especially to the specific object of their expedition, 

they gave me all information to assist in the com- 

\ 

pletion of the great problem—the " Nile Sources/' 

We were all ready to start. Speke and Grant, and 
their party of twenty-two people, for Egypt, and I in 
the opposite direction. At this season there were many 
boats at Gondokoro belonging to the traders' parties, 
among which were four belonging to Mr. Petherick, 
three of which were open cargo boats, and one remark¬ 
ably nice diahbiah, named the " Kathleen," that was 
waiting for Mrs. Petherick and her husband, who were 
supposed to be at their trading station, the Niambara, 
about seventy miles west of Gondokoro ; but no accounts 
had been heard of them. On the 20th February they 
suddenly arrived from the Niambara, with their people 


CHAP. 13.] 


SCARCITY AT GONDOKORO. 


109 


and ivory, and were surprised at seeing so large a party 
of English in so desolate a spot. It is a curious cir¬ 
cumstance, that although many Europeans had been as 
far south as Gondokoro, I was the first Englishman 
that had ever reached it. - We now formed a party 
of four. 

Gondokoro has a poor and sandy soil, so unpro¬ 
ductive, that corn is in the greatest scarcity, and is 
always brought from Khartoum by the annual boats 
tor the supply of the traders' people, who congregate 
there from the interior, in the months of January and 
February, to deliver the ivory for shipment to Khar¬ 
toum. Corn is seldom or never less than eight times 
the price of Khartoum ; this is a great drawback to the 
country, as each trading party that arrives with ivory 
from the interior brings with it five or six hundred 
native porters, all of whom have to be fed during their 
stay at Gondokoro, and in many cases, in times of 
scarcity, they starve. This famine has given a bad 
name to the locality, and it is accordingly difficult 
to procure porters from the interior, who naturally 
fear starvation. 

I was thus extremely sorry that I was obliged to 
refuse a supply of corn to Mr. Petherick upon his appli¬ 
cation-—an act of necessity, but not of ill-nature upon 
my part, as I was obliged to leave a certain quantity 


110 8FEKJB AND GRANT DDR ART TO KHARTOUM, [ chap . ii . 

in depot at Gondokoro, in case I should be driven back 
from the interior, in the event of which, without a 
supply in depot, utter starvation would have been the 
fate of my party. Mr. Petherick accordingly de¬ 
spatched one of his boats to the Shir tribe down the 
White Nile to purchase corn in exchange for molotes 
(native hoes). The boat returned with corn on the 
11th of March. 

On the 26th February, Speke and Grant sailed from 
Gondokoro. Our hearts were too full to say more than 
a short " God bless you !" They had won their victory; 
my work lay all before me. I watched their boat until 
it turned the corner, and wished them in my heart all 
honour for their great achievement. I trusted to sustain 
the name they had won for English perseverance, and 
I looked forward to meeting them again in dear old 
England, when I should have completed the work 
we had so warmly planned together. 


CHAPTER III. 


GUN ACCIDENT. 

A day before the departure of Speke and Grant from 
Gondokoro, an event occurred which appeared as a bad 
omen to the superstitions of my men. I had ordered 
the diahbiah to be prepared for sailing : thus, the cargo 
having been landed and the boat cleared and washed, 
we were sitting in the cabin, when a sudden explosion 
close to the windows startled us from our seats, and 
the consternation of a crowd of men who were on the 
bank, showed that some accident had happened. I 
immediately ran out, and found that the servants had 
laid all my rifles upon a mat upon the ground, and 
that one of the men had walked over the guns; his foot 
striking the hammer of one of the No. 10 Reilly rifles, 
had momentarily raised it from the nipple, and an 
instantaneous explosion was the consequence. The 
rifle was loaded for elephants, with seven drachms of 


112 


GUN ACCIDENT. 


[chap. III. 


powder. There was a quantity of luggage most fortu¬ 
nately lying before the muzzle, but the effects of the 
discharge were extraordinary. The ball struck the 
steel scabbard of a sword, tearing off the ring ; it then 
passed obliquely through the stock of a large rifle, and 
burst through the shoulder-plate; entering a packing- 
case of inch-deal, it passed through it and through the 
legs of a man who was sitting at some distance, and 
striking the hip-bone of another man, who was sitting 
at some paces beyond, it completely smashed both hips, 
and fortunately being expended, it lodged in the body. 
Had it not been for the first objects happily in the 
route of the ball, it would have killed several men, as 
they were sitting in a crowd exactly before the 
muzzle. 

Dr. Murie, who had accompanied Mr. Petherick, 
very kindly paid the wounded men every attention, 
but he with the smashed hip died in a few hours, 
apparently without pain. 

After the departure of Speke and Grant, I moved 
my tent to the high ground above the river ; the efflu¬ 
vium from the filth of some thousands of people was 
disgusting, and fever was prevalent in all quarters. 
Both of us were suffering; also Mr. and Mrs. Petherick, 
and many of my men, one of whom died. My animals 
were all healthy, but the donkeys and camels were 


CHAP. III.] 


BIRDS RUIN THE DONKEYS. 


] 13 


attacked by a bird, about tlie size of a thrush, which 
caused them great uneasiness. This bird is a greenish- 
brown colour, with a powerful red beak, and excessively 
strong claws. It is a perfect pest to the animals, and 
positively eats them into holes. The original obj ect of 
the bird in settling upon the animal is to search for 
vermin, but it is not contented with the mere 
insects, and industriously pecks holes in all parts of 
the animal, more especially on the back. A wound 
once established, adds to the attraction, and the 
unfortunate animal is so pestered that it has no time 
to eat. I was obliged to hire little boys to watch the 
donkeys, and to drive off these plagues ; but so deter¬ 
mined and bold were the birds, that I have constantly 
seen them run under the body of the donkey, clinging 
to the belly with their feet, and thus retreating to the 
opposite side of the animal when chased by the watch- 
boys. In a few days my animals were full of wounds, 
excepting the horses, whose long tails were effectual 
whisks. Although the temperature was high, 95° Falir., 
the wind was frequently cold at about three o'clock in 
the morning, and one of my horses, " Priest," that I 
had lately purchased of the Mission, became paralysed, 
and could not rise from the ground. After several 
days' endeavours to cure him, I was obliged to shoot 
him, as the poor animal could not eat. 

VOL. i. i 


114 ARRANGEMENT WITH MAEOMMEE. [chap. iii. 

I now weighed all my baggage, and found that I had 
fifty-four cantars (100 lbs. each). The beads, copper, and 
ammunition were the terrible onus. I therefore applied 
to Mahommed, the vakeel of Andrea Debono, who had 
escorted Speke and Grant, and I begged his co-operation 
in the expedition. These people had brought down a 
large quantity of ivory from the interior, and had 
therefore a number of porters who would return empty- 
handed ; I accordingly arranged with Mahommed for 
fifty porters, who would much relieve the backs of 
my animals from Gondokoro to the station at Faloro, 
about twelve days' march. At Faloro I intended to 
leave my heavy baggage in depot, and to proceed 
direct to Kamrasi's country. I promised Mahommed 
that I would use my influence in all new countries that 
I might discover, to open a road for his ivory trade, 
provided that he would agree to conduct it by legiti¬ 
mate purchase, and I gave him a list of the quality of 
beads most desirable for Kamrasi's country, according 
to the description I had received from Speke. 

Mahommed promised to accompany me, not only to 
his camp at Faloro, but throughout the whole of my 
expedition, provided that I would assist him in pro¬ 
curing ivory, and that I would give him a handsome 
present. All was agreed upon, and my own men 
appeared in high spirits at the prospect of joining so 


CHAP. III.] 


I1IS DUPLICITY, 


115 


large a party as that of Mahommed, which mustered 
about two hundred men. 

At that time I really placed dependence upon the 
professions of Mahommed and his people ; they had just 
brought Speke and Grant with them, and had received 
from them presents of a first-class double-barrelled gun 
and several valuable rifles. I had promised not only 
to assist them in their ivory expeditions, but to give 
them something very handsome in addition, and the 
fact of my having upwards of forty men as escort was 
also an introduction, as they would be an addition to 
the force, which is a great advantage in hostile coun¬ 
tries. Everything appeared to be in good train, but I 
little knew the duplicity of these Arab scoundrels. At 
the very moment that they were most friendly, they 
were plotting to deceive me, and to prevent me from 
entering the country. They knew, that should I pene¬ 
trate the interior, the ivory trade of the White Nile 
would be no longer a mystery, and that the atrocities 
of the slave trade would be exposed, and most likely 
be terminated by the intervention of European Powers ; 
accordingly they combined to prevent my advance, and 
to overthrow my expedition completely. The whole of 
the men belonging to the various traders were deter¬ 
mined that no Englishman should pehetrate into the 
country; accordingly they fraternised with my escort, 


116 


PLOT TO OBSTRUCT MY ADVANCE. [chap. iii. 


and persuaded them that I was a Christian dog, that it 
was a disgrace for a Mahommedan to serve; that they 
would be starved in my service, as I would not allow 
them to steal cattle ; that they would have no slaves ; 
and that I should lead them—God knew where—to the 
sea, from whence Speke and Grant had started; that 
they had left Zanzibar with two hundred men, and 
had only arrived at Gondokoro with eighteen, thus the 
remainder must have been killed by the natives on the 
road ; that if they followed me, and arrived at Zanzibar, 
I should find a ship waiting to take me to England, 
and I should leave them to die in a strange country. 
Such were the reports circulated to prevent my men 
from accompanying me, and it was agreed that Ma- 
hommed should fix a day for our pretended start in 
company , but that he would in reality start a few days 
before the time appointed ; and that my men should 
mutiny, and join his party in cattle-stealing and slave¬ 
hunting. This was the substance of the plot thus 
carefully concocted. 

My men evinced a sullen demeanour, neglected all 
orders, and I plainly perceived a settled discontent 
upon their general expression. The donkeys and camels 
were allowed to stray, and were daily missing, and 
recovered with difficulty; the luggage was overrun 
with white ants instead of being attended to every 


CHAP. III.] 


TEE BOY SAAT. 


117 


morning ; the men absented themselves without leave, 
and were constantly in the camps of the different 
traders. I was fully prepared for some difficulty, but 
I trusted that when once on the march I should be 
able to get them under discipline. 

Among my people were two blacks : one, " Richarn," 
already described as having been brought up by the 
Austrian Mission at Khartoum ; the other, a boy of 
twelve years old, " Saat." As these were the only 
really faithful members of the expedition, it is my duty 
to describe them. Richarn was an habitual drunkard, 
but he had his good points; he was honest, and much 
attached to both master and mistress. He had been with 
me for some months, and was a fair sportsman, and being 
an entirely different race to the Arabs, he kept himself 
apart from them, and fraternised with the boy Saat. 

Saat was a boy that would clo no evil; he was 
honest to a superlative degree, and a great exception 
to the natives of this wretched country. He was a 
native of " Fertit," and was minding liis father s goats, 
when a child of about six years old, at the time of his 
capture by the Baggara Arabs. He described vividly 
how men on camels suddenly appeared while he was in 
the wilderness with his flock, and how he was forcibly 
seized and thrust into a large gum sack, and slung 
upon the back of a camel. Upon screaming for help, 


118 


HISTORY OF SHIT. 


[chap. hi. 


the sack was opened, and an Arab threatened him with 
a knife should he make the slightest noise. Thus 
quieted, he was carried hundreds of miles through 
Kordofan to Dongola on the Nile, at which place he 
was sold to slave-dealers, and taken to Cairo to be sold 
to the Egyptian government as a drummer-boy. Being 
too young he was rejected, and while in the dealers 
hands he heard from another slave, of the Austrian 
Mission at Cairo, that would protect him could he only 
reach their asylum. With extraordinary energy for a 
child of six years old, he escaped from his master, and 
made his way to the Mission, where he was well 
received., and to a certain extent disciplined and taught 
as much of the Christian religion as he could under¬ 
stand. In company with a branch establishment of 
the Mission, he was subsequently located at Khartoum, 
and from thence was sent up the White Nile to a 
Mission-station in the Shillook country. The climate 
of the White Nile destroyed thirteen missionaries in 
the short space of six months, and the boy Saat returned 
with the remnant of the party to Khartoum, and was 
re-admitted into the Mission. The establishment was 
at that time swarming with little black boys from the 
various White Nile tribes, who repaid the kindness of 
the missionaries by stealing everything they could lay 
their hands upon. At length the utter worthlessness 


chap, hi.] FIRST INTRODUCTION TO SAAT. 119 

of the boys, their moral obtuseness, and the apparent 
impossibility of improving them, determined the chief 
of the Mission to purge his establishment from such 
imps, and they were accordingly turned out. Poor 
little Saat, the one grain of gold amidst the mire, 
shared the same fate. 

It was about a week before our departure from 
Khartoum that Mrs. Baker and I were at tea in the 
middle of the court-yard, when a miserable boy about 
twelve years old came uninvited to her side, and 
knelt down in the dust at her feet. There was 
something so irresistibly supplicating in the attitude 
of the child, that the first impulse was to give him 
something from the table. This was declined, and 
he merely begged to be allowed to live with us, 
and to be our boy. He said that he had been 
turned out of the Mission, merely because the Bari 
boys of the establishment were thieves, and thus he 
suffered for their sins. I could not believe it possible 
that the child had been actually turned out into the 
streets, and believing that the fault must lay in the 
boy, I told him I would inquire. In the meantime he 
was given in charge of the cook. 

It happened that, on the following day, I was so much 
occupied that I forgot to inquire at the Mission; and 
once more the cool hour of evening arrived when, after 


120 


TURNED OUT BY MISTAKE. 


[chap. III. 


the intense heat of the clay, we sat at table in the 
open court-yard ; it was refreshed by being plentifully 
watered. Hardly were we seated, when again the 
boy appeared, kneeling in the dust, with his head 
lowered at my wife's feet, and imploring to be allowed 
to follow us. It was in vain that I explained that 
we had a boy, and did not require another; that the 
journey was long and difficult, and that he might 
perhaps die. The boy feared nothing, and craved 
simply that he might belong to us. He had no place 
of shelter, no food; had been stolen from his parents, 
and was a helpless outcast. 

The next morning, accompanied by Mrs. Baker, 1 
went to the Mission and heard that the boy had borne 
an excellent character, and that it must have been by 
mistake that he had been turned put with the others. 
This being conclusive, Saat was immediately adopted. 
Mrs. Baker was shortly at work making him some 
useful clothes, and in an incredibly short time a great 
change was effected. As he came from the hands of 
the cook—after a liberal use of soap and water, and 
attired in trousers, blouse, and belt—the new boy 
appeared in a new character. 

From that time he considered himself as belonging 
absolutely to his mistress. He was taught by her to 
sew ; Richarn instructed him in the mysteries of wait- 


CHAP. III.] 


SAAT'S CHARACTER. 


121 


ing at table, and washing plates, &c. ; while I taught 
him to shoot, and gave him a light double-barrelled 
gun. This was his greatest pride. 

In the evening, when the day's work was done, 
Saat was allowed to sit near his mistress ; and he was 
at times amused and instructed by stories of Europe 
and Europeans, and anecdotes from the Bible adapted 
to his understanding, combined with the first prin¬ 
ciples of Christianity. He was very ignorant, not¬ 
withstanding his advantages in the Mission, but he 
possessed the first grand rudiments of all religion— 
honesty of purpose. Although a child of only twelve 
years old, he was so perfectly trustworthy that, at the 
period of our arrival at Gondokoro, he was more to 
be depended upon than my vakeel, and nothing could 
occur among my mutinous escort without the boy's 
knowledge : thus he reported the intended mutiny of 
the people when there was no other means of dis¬ 
covering it, and without Saat I should have had no 
information of their plots. 

Not only was the boy trustworthy, but he had an 
extraordinary amount of moral in addition to physical 
courage. If any complaint were made, and Saat was 
called as a witness—far from the shyness too often 
evinced when the accuser is brought face to face with 
the accused—such was Saat's proudest moment; and, 


122 


SOMETHING BREWING . 


[chap. III. 


no matter who the man might be, the boy would 
challenge him, regardless of all consequences. 

We were very fond of this boy; he was thoroughly 
good ; and in that land of iniquity, thousands of miles 
away from all except what was evil, there was a com¬ 
fort in having some one innocent and faithful, in whom 
to trust. 

We were to start upon the following Monday. 
Mahommed had paid me a visit, assuring me of his 
devotion, and begging me to have my baggage in 
marching order, as he would send me fifty porters 
on the Monday, and we would move off in company. 
At the very moment that he thus professed, he was 
coolly deceiving me. He had arranged to start with¬ 
out me on the Saturday, while he was proposing to 
march together on the Monday. This I did not know 
at the time. 

One morning I had returned to the tent after 
having, as usual, inspected the transport animals, 
when I observed Mrs. Baker looking extraordinarily 
pale, and immediately upon my arrival she gave 
orders for the presence of the vakeel (headman). 
There was something in her manner, so different to 
her usual calm, that I was utterly bewildered when 
I heard her question the vakeel, " Whether the men 
were willing to march ? " Perfectly ready was the 


CHAP. III.] 


MUTINY OF ESCORT. 


123 


reply. " Then order them to strike the tent, and 
load the animals ; we start this moment." The man 
appeared confused, but not more so than I. Some¬ 
thing was evidently on foot, but what I could not 
conjecture. The vakeel wavered, and to my astonish¬ 
ment I heard the accusation made against him, that, 
" during the night, the whole of the escort had muti¬ 
nously conspired to desert me, with my arms and 
ammunition that were in their hands, and to fire 
simultaneously at me should I attempt to disarm 
them." At first this charge was indignantly denied 
until the boy Saat manfully stepped forward, and 
declared that the conspiracy was entered into by the 
whole of the escort, and that both he and Kicharn, 
knowing that mutiny was intended, had listened pur¬ 
posely to the conversation during the night; at day¬ 
break the boy had reported the fact to his mistress. 
Mutiny, robbery, and murder were thus deliberately 
determined. 

I immediately ordered an angarep (travelling bed¬ 
stead) to be placed outside the tent under a large 
tree; upon this I laid five double-barrelled guns 
loaded with buck shot, a revolver, and naked sabre 
as sharp as a razor. A sixth rifle I kept in my hands 
while I sat upon the angarep, with Richarn and Saat 
both with double-barrelled guns behind me. Formerly 


124 PREPARATIONS FOR THE WORST. [ chap . iii . 

I had supplied each of my men with a piece of 
mackintosh waterproof to be tied over the locks of 
their guns during the march. I now ordered the 
drum to be beat, and all the men to form in line 
in marching order, with their locks tied up in the 
waterproof. I requested Mrs. Baker to stand behind 
me, and to point out any man who should attempt 
to uncover his locks, when I should give the order 
to lay down their arms. The act of uncovering the 
locks would prove his intention, in which event I 
intended to shoot him immediately, and take my 
chance with the rest of the conspirators. 

I had quite determined that these scoundrels should 
not rob me of my own arms and ammunition, if I 
could prevent it. 

The drum beat, and the vakeel himself went into 
the men's quarters, and endeavoured to prevail upon 
them to answer the call. At length fifteen assembled 
in line; the others were nowhere to be found. The 
locks of the arms were secured by mackintosh as 
ordered; it was thus impossible for any man to fire 
at me until he should have released his locks. 

Upon assembling in line I ordered them imme¬ 
diately to lay down their arms. This, with insolent 
looks of defiance, they refused to do. " Down with 
your guns this moment," I shouted, " sons of dogs! " 


CHAP. 111.] 


DISARM THE MUTINEERS. 


125 


And at the sharp click of the locks, as I quickly cocked 
the rifle that I held in my hands, the cowardly muti¬ 
neers widened their line and wavered. Some retreated 
a few paces to the rear ; others sat down, and laid 
their guns on the ground; while the remainder slowly 
dispersed, and sat in twos, or singly, under the various 
trees about eighty paces distant. Taking advantage 
of their indecision, I immediately rose and ordered my 
vakeel and Richarn to disarm them as they were thus 
scattered. Foreseeing that the time had arrived for 
actual physical force, the cowards capitulated, agreeing 
to give up their arms and ammunition if I would give 
them their written discharge. I disarmed them imme¬ 
diately, and the vakeel having written a discharge for 
the fifteen men present, I wrote upon each paper the 
word " mutineer " above my signature. None of them 
being able to read, and this being written in English, 
they unconsciously carried the evidence of their own 
guilt, which I resolved to punish should I ever find 
them on my return to Khartoum. 

Thus disarmed, they immediately joined other of 
the traders' parties. These fifteen men were the 
" Jalyns " of my party, the remainder being Dongo- 
lowas : both Arabs of the Nile, north of Khartoum. 
The Dongolowas had not appeared when summoned 
by the drum, and my vakeel being of their nation, 


126 


MAHOMMED'S DESERTION. 


[chap. III. 


I impressed upon him his responsibility for the mutiny, 
and that he would end his days in prison at Khartoum 
should my expedition fail. 

The boy w Saat " and " Richarn " now assured me 
that the men had intended to fire at me, but that 
they were frightened at seeing us thus prepared, but 
that I must not expect one man of the Dongolowas 
to be any more faithful than the Jalyns. I ordered 
the vakeel to hunt up the men, and to bring me their 
guns, threatening that if they refused I would shoot 
any man that I found with one of my guns in his 
hands. 

There was no time for mild measures. I had only 
Saat (a mere child), and Richarn, upon whom I could 
depend ; and I resolved with them alone to accompany 
Mahommeds people to the interior, and to trust to good 
fortune for a chance of proceeding. 

I was feverish and ill with worry and anxiety, and 
I was lying down upon my mat, when I suddenly 
heard guns firing in all directions, drums beating, and 
the customary signs of either an arrival or departure of 
a trading party. Presently a messenger arrived from 
Koorshid Aga, the Circa,ssian, to announce the departure 
of Mahommed's party without me ; and my vakeel 
appeared with a message from the same people, that 
" if I followed on their road (my proposed route), they 


chap, hi.] ARRANGEMENT WITH KOORSHID AG A. 127 

would fire upon me and my party, as they would allow 
no English spies in their country." 

My vakeel must have known of this preconcerted 
arrangement. I now went to the Circassian, Koorshid, 
who had always been friendly personally. In an inter¬ 
view with him, I made him understand that nothing 
should drive me back to Khartoum, but that, as I was 
now helpless, I begged him to give me ten elephant- 
hunters ; that I would pay one-half of their wages, and 
amuse myself in hunting and exploring in any direction 
until the following year, he to take the ivory ; by which 
time I could receive thirty black soldiers from Khar¬ 
toum, with whom I should commence my journey to 
the lake. I begged him to procure me thirty good 
blacks at Khartoum, and to bring them with him to 
Gondokoro next season, where I arranged to meet him. 
This he agreed to, and I returned to my tent delighted 
at a chance of escaping complete failure, although I 
thus encountered a delay of twelve months before I 
could commence my legitimate voyage. That accom¬ 
plished, I was comparatively happy ; the disgrace of 
returning to Khartoum beaten, would have been 
insupportable. 

That night I slept well, and we sat under our shady 
tree by the tent-door at sunrise on the following 
morning, drinking our coffee with contentment. Pre- 


128 


THE LAST HOPE GONE. 


[chap. III. 


sently, from a distance, I saw Koorshid, the Circassian, 
approaching with his partner. Coffee and pipes were 
ready instanter , both the boy Saat and Bicharn looked 
upon him as a friend and ally, as it was arranged that 
ten of his hunters were to accompany us. Before he 
sipped his coffee he took me by the hand, and with 
great confusion of manner he confessed that he was 
ashamed to come and visit me. " The' moment you 
left me yesterday/' said he, " I called my vakeel and 
headman, and ordered them to select the ten best men 
of my party to accompany you ; but instead of obeying 
me as usual, they declared that nothing would induce 
them to serve under you; that you were a spy who 
would report their proceedings to the Government, 
and that they should all be ruined; that you were 
not only a spy on the slave-trade, but that you were 
a madman, who would lead them into distant and 
unknown countries, where both you and your wife and 
they would all be murdered by the natives; thus they 
would mutiny immediately, should you be forced upon 
them/' My last hope was gone. Of course I thanked 
Koorshid for his good-will, and explained that I should 
not think of intruding myself upon his party, but that 
at the same time they should not drive me out of the 
country. I had abundance of stores and ammunition, 
and now that my men had deserted me, I had -suffi- 


CHAP. III.] 


EXPEDITION RUINED. 


129 


cient corn to supply my small party for twelve months ; 
I had also a quantity of garden-seeds, that I had 
brought with me in the event of becoming a prisoner 
in the country; I should therefore make a zareeba or 
camp at Gondokoro, and remain there until I should 
receive men and supplies in the following season. 
I now felt independent, having preserved my depot 
of corn. I was at least proof against famine for 
twelve months. Koorshid endeavoured to persuade 
me that my paxty of only a man and a boy would be 
certainly insulted and attacked by the insolent natives 
of the Bari tribe should I remain alone at Gondokoro 
after the departure of the traders' parties. I told him 
that I preferred the natives to the traders' people, and 
that I was resolved ; I merely begged him to lend me 
one of his little slave boys as an interpreter, as I had 
no means of communicating with the natives. This 
he promised to do. 

After Koorshid's departure, we sat silently for some 
minutes, both my wife and I occupied by the same 
thoughts. 

No expedition had ever been more carefully planned ; 
everything had been well arranged to insure success. 
My transport animals were in good condition ; their 
saddles and pads had been made under my own inspec¬ 
tion ; my arms, ammunition, and supplies were abuii- 


VOL. I. 


K 


130 


RESOLUTION TO ADFINCE. 


[chap. III. 


dant, and I was ready to march at five minutes' notice 
to any part of Africa; but the expedition, so costly, 
and so carefully organized, was completely ruined by 
the very people whom I had engaged to protect it. 
They had not only deserted, but they had conspired to 
murder. There was no law in these wild regions but 
brute force ; human life was of no value; murder was 
a pastime, as the murderer could escape all punishment. 
Mr. Pettier ick's vakeel had just been shot dead by one 
of his own men, and such events were too common to 
create much attention. We were utterly helpless ; the 
whole of the people against us, and openly threatening. 
For myself personally I had no anxiety, but the fact of 
Mrs. Baker being with me was my greatest care. I 
dared not think of her position in the event of my 
death amongst such savages as those around her. 
These thoughts were shared by her; but she, knowing 
that I had resolved to succeed, never once hinted an 
advice for retreat. 

Bicharn was as faithful as Saat, and I accordingly 
confided in him my resolution to leave all my baggage 
in charge of a friendly chief of the Bari's at Gondo- 
koro, and to take two fast dromedaries for him and 
Saat, and two horses for Mrs. Baker and myself, and 
to make a push through the hostile tribe for three days, 
to arrive among friendly people at " Moir," from which 


CHAP. III.] 


RICHARN FAITHFUL. 


131 


place I trusted to fortune. I arranged that the drome¬ 
daries should carry a few heads, ammunition, and the 
astronomical instruments. 

Richarn said the idea was very mad; that the natives 
would do nothing for beads; that he had had great 
experience on the White Nile when with a former 
master, and that the natives would do nothing without 
receiving cows as payment; that it was of no use 
being good to them, as they had no respect for any 
virtue but " force; " that we should most likely be 
murdered; but that if I ordered him to go, he was 
ready to obey. 

" Master, go on, and I will follow thee, 

To the last gasp, with fiuth and loyalty." 

I was delighted with Richarn's rough and frank fidelity. 
Ordering the horses to be brought, I carefully pared 
their feet—their hard, flinty hoofs, that had never felt 
a shoe, were in excellent order for a gallop, if necessary. 
All being ready, I sent for the chief of Gondokoro. 
Meanwhile a Bari boy arrived from Koorshid to act as 
my interpreter. 

The Bari chief was, as usual, smeared all over with 
red ochre and fat, and had the shell of a small land- 
tortoise suspended to his elbow as an ornament. He 
brought me a large jar of merissa (native beer), and said 

K 2 


132 


BARI CHIEF'S REPORT . 


[chap. hi. 


" lie liacl been anxious to see the white man who clid not 
steal cattle, neither kidnap slaves, but that I should do 
no good in that country, as the traders did not wish 
me to remain." He told me " that all people were bad, 
both natives and traders, and that force was necessary 
in this country." I tried to discover whether he had 
any respect for good and upright conduct. "Yes," he 
said; " all people say that you are different to the 
Turks and traders, but that character will not help 
you; it is all very good and very right, but you see 
your men have all deserted, thus you must go back to 
Khartoum ; you can do nothing here without plenty of 
men and guns." I proposed to him my plan of riding 
quickly through the Bari tribe to Moir; he replied, 
"Impossible! If I were to beat the great nogaras(drums), 
and call my people together to explain who you were, 
they would not hurt you; but there are many petty 
chiefs who do not obey me, and their people would 
certainly attack you when crossing some swollen 
torrent, and what could you do with only a man and 
a boy ? " 

His reply to my question concerning the value of 
beads corroborated Bicharn's statement; nothing could 
be purchased for anything but cattle; the traders had 
commenced the system of stealing herds of cattle from 
one tribe to barter with the next neighbour; thus the 


CHAP. III.] 


PARLEY WITH MUTINEERS. 


133 


entire country was in anarchy and confusion, and beads 
were of no value. My plan for a dash through the 
country was impracticable. 

I therefore called my vakeel, and threatened him 
with the gravest punishment on my return to Khar¬ 
toum. I wrote to Sir R. Colquhoun, H.M. Consul- 
General for Egypt, which letter I sent by one of the 
return boats; and I explained to my vakeel that the 
complaint to the British authorities would end in his 
imprisonment, and that in case of my death through 
violence he would be assuredly hanged. After fright¬ 
ening him thoroughly, I suggested that he should 
induce some of the mutineers, who were Dongolowas 
(his own tribe), many of whom were his relatives, to 
accompany me, in which case I would forgive them 
their past misconduct. 

In the course of the afternoon he returned with the 
news, that he had arranged with seventeen of the men, 
but that they refused to march towards the south, and 
would accompany me to the east if I wished to explore 
that part of the country. Their plea for refusing a 
southern route was the hostility of the Bari tribe. 
They also proposed a condition, that I should " leave 
all my transport animals and baggage behind 
me" 

To this insane request, which completely nullified 


CONSPIRACY AGAIN . 


184 


[chap. III. 


t heir offer to start, I only replied by vowing vengeance 
against the vakeel. 

Their time was passed in vociferously quarrelling 
among themselves during the day, and in close con¬ 
ference with the vakeel during the night, the substance 
of which was reported on the following morning by the 
faithful Saat. The boy recounted their plot. They 
agreed to march to the east, with the intention of 
deserting me at the station of a trader named Chenooda, 
seven days' march from Gondokoro, in the Latooka 
country, whose men were, like themselves, Dongolowas ; 
they had conspired to mutiny at that place, and to 
desert to the slave-hunting party with my arms and 
ammunition, and to shoot me should I attempt to 
disarm them. They also threatened to shoot my 
vakeel, who now, through fear of punishment at 
Khartoum, exerted his influence to induce them to 
start. Altogether, it was a pleasant state of things. 

That night I was asleep in my tent, when I was 
suddenly awoke by loud screams, and upon listening 
attentively I distinctly heard the heavy breathing of 
something in the tent, and I could distinguish a dark 
object crouching close to the head of my bed. A slight 
pull at my sleeve showed me that my wife also noticed 
the object, as this was always the signal that she made 
if anything occurred at night that required vigilance. 


CHAP. III.] 


NIGHT VISIT OF FADEELA. 


135 


Possessing a share of sangfroid admirably adapted 
for African travel, Mrs. Baker was not a screamer , and 
never even whispered; in the moment of suspected 
danger, a touch of my sleeve was considered a sufficient 
warning. My hand had quietly drawn the revolver 
from under my pillow and noiselessly pointed it within 
two feet of the dark crouching object, before I asked, 
"Who is that V } No answer was given—until, upon 
repeating the question, with my finger touching gently 
upon the trigger ready to fire, a voice replied, " Fa¬ 
deela." Never had I been so near to a fatal shot! It 
was one of the black women of the party, who had 
crept into the tent for an asylum. Upon striking a 
light I found that the woman was streaming with 
blood, being cut in the most frightful manner with the 
coorbatch (whip of hippopotamus's hide). Hearing the 
screams continued at some distance from the tent, I 
found my angels in the act of flogging two women; 
two men were holding each woman upon the ground 
by sitting upon her legs and neck, while two men with 
powerful whips operated upon each woman alternately. 
Their backs were cut to pieces, and they were literally 
covered with blood. The brutes had taken upon them¬ 
selves the task of thus punishing the women for a 
breach of discipline in being absent without leave. 
Fadeela had escaped before her punishment had been 


136 


QUID PRO QUO:' 


[chap. hi. 


completed, and liad narrowly escaped being shot by 
running to the tent without giving warning. Seizing 
the coorbatch from the hands of one of the executioners, 
I administered them a dose of their own prescription, 
to their intense astonishment, as they did not appear 
conscious of any outrage;—" they were only Slave 
women." In all such expeditions it is necessary to 
have women belonging to the party to grind the corn 
and prepare the food for the men; I had accordingly 
hired several from their proprietors at Khartoum, and 
these had been maltreated as described. 

I was determined at all hazards to start from Gon- 
dokoro for the interior. From long experience with 
natives of wild countries, I did not despair of obtaining 
an influence over my men, however bad, could I once 
quit Gondokoro, and lead them among the wild and 
generally hostile tribes of the country; they would 
then be separated from the contagion of the slave¬ 
hunting parties, and would feel themselves dependant 
upon me for guidance. Accordingly I professed to 
believe in their promises to accompany me to the east, 
although I knew of their conspiracy; and I trusted 
that by tact and good management I should eventually 
thwart all their plans, and, although forced out of my 
intended course, I should be able to alter my route, 
and to work round from the east to my original plan 


chap, in.] "ADDA" THE LATOOKA. J 37 

of operations south. The interpreter given by Koorshid 
Aga had absconded : this was a great loss, as I had no 
means of communication with the natives except by 
casually engaging a Bari in the employment of the 
traders, to whom I was obliged to pay exorbitantly in 
copper bracelets for a few minutes ? conversation. 

A party of Koorshid's people had just arrived with 
ivory from the Latooka country, bringing with them a 
number of that tribe as porters. These people were 
the most extraordinary that I had seen;—wearing 
beautiful helmets of glass beads, and being remarkably 
handsome. The chief of the party, " Adda," came to 
my tent, accompanied by a few of his men. He was 
one of the finest men I ever saw, and he gave me much 
information concerning his country, and begged me 
to pay him a visit. He detested the Turks, but he 
was obliged to serve them, as he had received orders 
from the great chief " Commoro " to collect porters, 
and to transport their ivory from Latooka to Gondokoro. 
I took his portrait, to his great delight, and made him 
a variety of presents of copper bracelets, beads, and a 
red cotton handkerchief; the latter was most prized, 
and he insisted upon wearing it upon his person. He 
had no intention of wearing his new acquisition for 
the purpose of decency, but he carefully folded it so 
as to form a triangle, and then tied it round his waist, 


138 ARRANGE TO START FOR LATOOKA, [chap, hi, 

so that the pointed end should hang exactly straight 
behind him. So particular was be, that he was quite 
half an hour in arranging this simple appendage; 
and at length he departed with his people, always 
endeavouring to admire his new finery, by straining 
his neck in his attempts to look behind him. From 
morning till night natives of all ranks surrounded 
the tent to ask for presents; these being generally 
granted, as it was highly necessary to create a favour¬ 
able impression. Koorshid's party, who had arrived 
from Latooka, were to return shortly, but they not 
only refused to allow me to accompany them, but 
they declared their intention of forcibly repelling me, 
should I attempt to advance by their route. This was 
a grand excuse for my men, who once more refused to 
proceed. By pressure upon the vakeel they again 
yielded, but on condition that I would take one of 
the mutineers named " Bellaal, who wished to join 
them, but whose offer I had refused, as he had been a 
notorious ringleader in every mutiny. It was a sine 
qua non that he was to go; and knowing the cha¬ 
racter of the man, I felt convinced that it had been 
arranged that he should head the mutiny conspired to 
be enacted upon our arrival at Chenooda's camp in the 
Latooka country. The vakeel of Chenooda, one Ma~ 
hommed Her, was in constant communication with my 


chap, hi.] THREATS OF KOORSHWS PEOPLE. 139 1 

men, which tended to confirm the reports I had heard 
from the boy Saat. This Mahommed Her started from 
Gondokoro for Latooka. Koorshids men would start two 
days later; these were rival parties, both antagonistic,, 
but occupying the same country, the Latooka; both 
equally hostile to me, but as the party of Mahommed 
Her were Dongalowas, and that of Koorshid were 
Jalyns and Soodanes, I trusted eventually to turn their 
disputes to my own advantage. 

The plan that I had arranged was to leave all the 
baggage not indispensable with Koorshid Aga at 
Gondokoro, who would return it to Khartoum. I 
intended to wait until Koorshid s party should march, 
when I resolved to follow them, as I did not believe 
they would dare to oppose me by force, their master 
himself being friendly. I considered their threats as 
mere idle boasting, to frighten me from an attempt to 
follow them; but there was another more serious cause 
of danger to be apprehended. 

On the route, between Gondokoro and Latooka, 
there was a powerful tribe among the mountains of 
Ellyria. The chief of that tribe (Legge) had formerly 
massacred a hundred and twenty of a trader s party. 
He was an ally of Koorshid's people, who declared 
that they would raise the tribe against me, which 
would end in the defeat or massacre of my party. 


140 


DETERMINATION TO PROCEED. 


[chap. III. 


There was a difficult pass through the mountains of 
Ellyria, which it would be impossible to force; thus my 
small party of seventeen men would be helpless. It 
would be merely necessary for the traders to request 
the chief of Ellyria to attack my party to insure its 
destruction, as the plunder of the baggage would be 
an ample reward. 

There was no time for deliberation. Both the pre¬ 
sent and the future looked as gloomy as could be 
imagined; but I had always expected extraordinary 
difficulties, and they were, if possible, to be surmounted. 
It was useless to speculate upon chances; there was 
no hope of success in inaction ; and the only resource 
was to drive through all obstacles without calculating 
the risk. 

Once away from Gondokoro we should be fairly 
launched on our voyage, the boats would have 
returned to Khartoum, thus retreat would be cut 
off; it only remained to push forward, trusting in 
Providence and good fortune. I had great faith in 
presents. The Arabs are all venal; and, having 
many valuable effects with me, I trusted, when the 
proper moment should arrive, to be able to over¬ 
come all opposition by an open hand. 

The day arrived for the departure of Koorshid's 
people. They commenced firing their usual signals; 


CHAP. III.] 


START FROM GONDOKORO. 


141 


the drums beat; the Turkish ensign led the way; and 
they marched at 2 o'clock p.m., sending a polite 
message, " daring " me to follow them. 

I immediately ordered the tent to be struck, the 
luggage to be arranged, the animals to be collected, 
and everything to be ready for the march. Kicharn 
and Saat were in high spirits, even my unwilling 
men were obliged to work, and by 7 p.m. we were 
all ready. The camels were too heavily loaded, carry¬ 
ing about seven hundred pounds each. The donkeys 
were also overloaded, but there was no help for it. 
Mrs. Baker was well mounted on my good old Abys¬ 
sinian hunter " Tetel," * and was carrying several 
leather bags slung to the pommel, while I was equally 
loaded on my horse " Filfil; " t in fact, we were all 
carrying as much as we could stow. 

We had neither guide, nor interpreter. Not one 
native was procurable, all being under the influence 
of the traders, who had determined to render our 
advance utterly impossible by preventing the natives 
from assisting us. All had been threatened, and we, 
perfectly helpless, commenced the desperate journey 
in darkness about an hour after sunset. 

" Where shall we go ? " said the men, just as the 
order was given to start. " Who can travel without 

f "Pepper." 


* " Hartebeest." 


MY OWN GUIDE. 


142 


[chap. III. 


¦a guide ? No one knows the road." The moon was 
up, and the mountain of Belignan was distinctly visi¬ 
ble about nine miles distant. Knowing that the 
route lay on the east side of that mountain, I led 
the way, Mrs. Baker riding by my side, and the 
British flag following close behind us as a guide for 
the caravan of heavily laden camels and donkeys. We 
.shook hands warmly with Dr. Murie, who had come 
to see us off, and thus we started on our march in 
Central Africa on the 26th of March, 1863. 


CHAPTER IV. 


FIRST NIGHT ? S MARCH. 

The country was park-like, but mucli parched by the 
dry weather. The ground was sandy, but firm, and 
interspersed with numerous villages, all of which were 
surrounded with a strong fence of euphorbia. The 
country was well wooded, being free from bush or 
jungle, but numerous trees, all evergreens, were 
scattered over the landscape. No natives were to be 
seen, but the sound of their drums and singing in 
chorus was heard in the far distance. Whenever it 
is moonlight the nights are passed in singing and 
dancing, beating drums, blowing horns, and the popu¬ 
lation of whole villages thus congregate together. 

After a silent march of two hours we saw watch- 
fires blazing in the distance, and upon nearer approach 
we perceived the traders party bivouacked. Their 
custom is to march only two or three hours on the 


144 


BIVOUACKING. 


[chap. IV. 


first day of departure, to allow stragglers who may 
have lagged behind in Gondokoro to rejoin the party 
before morning. 

We were roughly challenged by their sentries as we 
passed, and were instantly told "not to remain in 
their neighbourhood." Accordingly we passed on for 
about half a mile in advance, and bivouacked on some 
rising ground above a slight hollow in which we found 
water. All were busy collecting firewood and cutting- 
grass for the donkeys and horses who were piquetted 
near the fires. The camels were hobbled, and turned 
to graze upon the branches of a large mimosa. We 
were not hungry; the constant anxiety had entirely 
destroyed all appetite. A cup of strong black coffee 
was the greatest luxury, and not requiring a tent in 
rhe clear still night, we were soon asleep on our simple 
angareps. 

Before daylight on the following morning the drum 
beat; the lazy soldiers, after stretching and yawning, 
began to load the animals, and we started at six 
o'clock. In these climates the rising of the sun is 
always dreaded. For about an hour before sunrise 
the air is deliciously cool and invigorating, but the 
sun is regarded as the common enemy. There is, 
nevertheless, a difficulty in starting before sunrise— 
the animals cannot be properly loaded in the dark- 


chap, iy.] ARRIVAL AT BJELIGNAN. 145 

ness, and the operation being tedious, the cool hour of 
morning is always lost. 

The morning was clear, and the mountain of 
Belignan, within three or four miles, was a fine 
object to direct our course. I could distinctly see 
some enormous trees at the foot of the mountain near 
a Tillage, and I hastened forward, as I hoped to 
procure a guide who would also act as interpreter, 
many of the natives in the vicinity of Gondokoro 
having learnt a little Arabic from the traders. We 
cantered on ahead of the party, regardless of the 
assurance of our unwilling men that the natives were 
not to be trusted, and we soon arrived beneath the 
shade of a cluster of most superb trees. The village 
was within a quarter of a mile, situated at the very 
base of the abrupt mountain; the natives seeing us 
alone had no fear, and soon thronged around us. The 
chief understood a few words of Arabic, and I offered 
a large payment of copper bracelets and beads for 
a guide. After much discussion and bargaining a 
bad-looking fellow offered to guide us to Ellyria, but 
no farther. This was about twenty-eight or thirty 
miles distant, and it was of vital importance that we 
should pass through that tribe before the trader's 
party should raise them against us. I had great 
hopes of outmarching them, as they would be de- 
VOL. I. L 


146 


ATTEMPTS AT CONCILIATION. 


[chap. IV. 


layed in Belignan by ivory transactions with the 
chief. 

While negotiations were pending with the guide, 
the trader's party appeared in the distance, and 
avoiding us, they halted on the opposite side of the 
village. I now tried conciliatory measures, and I sent 
my vakeel to their headman Ibrahim to talk with 
him confidentially, and to try to obtain an inter¬ 
preter in return for a large present. 

My vakeel was in an awkward position—he was 
afraid of me; also mortally afraid of the government 
in Khartoum; and frightened out of his life at his 
own men, whose conspiracy to desert he was well 
aware of. With the cunning of an Arab he started 
on his mission, accompanied by several of the men, 
including the arch-mutineer Bellaal. He shortly 
returned, saying, "that it was perfectly impossible 
to proceed to the interior; that Ibrahim's party were 
outrageous at my having followed on their route ; 
that he would neither give an interpreter, nor allow 
any of the natives to serve me; and that he would 
give orders to the great chief of Ellyria to prevent 
me from passing through his country." 

At that time the Turks were engaged in business 
transactions with the natives; it therefore was all 
important that I should start immediately, and by 


CHAP. IV.] 


I SHAME MY MEN,\ 


147 


a forced march arrive at Ellyria, and get through 
the pass, before they should communicate with the 
chief. I had no doubt that, by paying black mail, 
I should be able to clear Ellyria, provided I was in 
advance of the Turks, but should they outmarch me 
there would be no hope; a fight and defeat would 
be the climax. I accordingly gave orders for an 
immediate start. " Load the camels, my brothers ! " 
I exclaimed, to the sullen ruffians around me; but 
not a man stirred except Richarn and a fellow named 
Sali, who began to show signs of improvement. Seeing 
that the men intended to disobey, I immediately 
set to work myself loading the animals, requesting 
my men not to trouble themselves, and begging them 
to lie down and smoke their pipes while I did the 
work. A few rose from the ground ashamed, and 
assisted to load the camels, while the others declared 
the impossibility of camels travelling by the road we 
were about to take, as the Turks had informed them 
that not even the donkeys could march through the 
thick jungles between Belignan and Ellyria. 

" All right, my brothers ! " I replied; " then well 
march as far as the donkeys can go, and leave both 
them and the baggage on the road when they can go 
no farther; but I go fomvard " 

With sullen discontent the men began to strap on 

L 2 


148 


THE MARCH. 


[chap. IV* 


their belts and cartouche boxes, and prepare for the 
start. The animals were loaded, and we moved slowly 
forward at 4.30 p.m. The country was lovely. The 
mountain of Belignan, although not exceeding 1,200 
feet, is a fine mass of gneiss and syenite, ornamented 
in the hollows with fine trees, while the general ap¬ 
pearance of the country at the base was that of a 
beautiful English park well timbered and beautified 
with distant mountains. We had just started with 
the Bari guide that I had engaged at Belignan, when 
we were suddenly joined by two of the Latookas whom 
I had seen when at G-ondokoro, and to whom I had been 
very civil. It appeared that these fellows, who were 
acting as porters to the Turks, had been beaten, and 
had therefore absconded and joined me. This was 
extraordinary good fortune, as I now had guides the 
whole way to Latooka, about ninety miles distant. I 
immediately gave them each a copper bracelet and 
some beads, and they very good-naturedly relieved the 
camels of one hundred pounds of copper rings, which 
they carried in two baskets on their heads. 

We now crossed the broad dry bed of a torrent, and 
the banks being steep, a considerable time was occupied 
in assisting the loaded animals in their descent. The 
donkeys were easily aided, their tails being held by 
two men, while they shuffled and slid down the sandy 


CHAP. IV.] 


ADVANTAGES OF DONKEYS. 


149 


banks; but every camel fell, and tlie loads bad to be 
carried up the opposite bank by the men, and the 
camels to be re-loaded on arrival. Here again the 
donkeys had the advantage, as without being unloaded 
they were assisted up the steep ascent by two men in 
front pulling at their ears, while others pushed behind. 
Altogether, the donkeys were far more suitable for the 
country, as they were more easily loaded. I had ar¬ 
ranged their packs and saddles so well, that they 
carried their loads with the greatest comfort. Each 
animal had an immense pad well stuffed with goats' 
hair; this reached from the shoulder to the hip-bones ; 
upon this rested a simple form of saddle made of two 
forks of boughs inverted, and fastened together with 
rails—there were no nails in these saddles, all the 
fastenings being secured with thongs of raw hide. 
The great pad, projecting far both in front, behind, and 
also below the side of the saddle, prevented the loads 
from chafing the animal. Every donkey carried two 
large bags made of the hides of antelopes that I had 
formerly shot on the frontier of Abyssinia, and these 
were arranged with taggles on the one to fit into loops 
on the other, so that the loading and unloading was 
exceedingly simple. The success of an expedition de¬ 
pends mainly upon the perfection of the details, and 
where animals are employed for transport, the first 


150 


ADVICE FOR TRAVELLERS. 


[chap, re¬ 


consideration should be bestowed upon saddles and 
packs. The facility of loading is all important, and I 
now had an exemplification of its effect upon both 
animals and men ; the latter began to abuse the camels 
and to curse the father of this, and the mother of that, 
because- they had the trouble of unloading them for 
the descent into the rivers bed, while the donkeys 
were blessed with the endearing name of " my brother," 
and alternately whacked with the stick. It was rather 
a bad commencement of a forced march, and the ravine 
we had crossed had been a cause of serious delay. 
Hardly were the animals re-loaded and again ready for 
the march, when the men remembered that they had 
only one water skin full. I had given orders before 
the start from Belignan that all should be filled, This 
is the unexceptional rule in African travelling—fill 
your girbas before starting." Never mind what the 
natives may tell you concerning the existence of 
water on the road; believe nothing; but resolutely 
determine to fill the girbas;—should you find 
water, there is no harm done if you are already 
provided : but nothing can exceed the improvidence 
of the people. To avoid the trouble of filling the 
girbas before starting, the men will content them¬ 
selves with " Inshallah " (please God) we shall find 
water on the road, and they frequently endure the 


CHAP. IV.] 


WANT OF WATER. 


151 


greatest suffering from sheer idleness in neglecting 
a supply. 

They had in this instance persuaded themselves that 
the river we had just crossed would not be dry. 
Several of them had been employed in this country 
formerly, and because they had at one time found 
water in the sandy bed, they had concluded that it 
existed still. Accordingly they now wished to send 
parties to seek for water; this would entail a further 
delay, at a time when every minute was precious, as 
our fate depended upon reaching and passing through 
Ellyria before the arrival of the Turks. I was very 
anxious, and determined not to allow a moment's hesi¬ 
tation ; I therefore insisted upon an immediate advance, 
and resolved to march without stopping throughout 
the night. The Latooka guides explained by signs 
that if we marched all night we should arrive at water 
on the following morning. This satisfied the men ; 
and we started. For some miles we passed through 
a magnificent forest of large trees : the path being 
remarkably good, the march looked propitious—this 
good fortune however was doomed to change. We 
shortly entered upon thick thorny jungles; the path was 
so overgrown that the camels could scarcely pass under 
the overhanging branches, and the leather bags of pro¬ 
visions piled upon their backs were soon ripped by the 


152 


A FORCED MARCH. 


[chap. IV. 


hooked thorns of the mimosa—the salt, rice, and coffee 
bags all sprang leaks, and small streams of these im¬ 
portant stores issued from the rents, which the men 
attempted to repair by stuffing dirty rags into the 
holes. These thorns were shaped like fish-hooks, thus 
it appeared that the perishable baggage must soon 
become an utter wreck, as the great strength and 
weight of the camels bore all before them, and some¬ 
times tore the branches from the trees, the thorns 
becoming fixed -in the leather bags. Meanwhile 
the donkeys walked along in comfort, being so 
short that they and their loads were beiow the 
branches. 

I dreaded the approach of night. We were now 
at the foot of a range of high rocky hills, from which 
the torrents during the rainy season had torn countless 
ravines in their passage through the lower ground; 
we w r ere marching parallel to the range at the very 
base, thus we met every ravine at right angles. Down 
tumbled a camel; and away rolled his load of bags, 
pots, pans, boxes, &c. into the bottom of a ravine in a 
confused ruin.—Halt! . . and the camel had to be 
raised and helped up the opposite bank, while the late 
avalanche of luggage was carried piecemeal after him 
to be again adjusted. To avoid a similar catastrophe 
the remaining three camels had to be unloaded, and 


CHAP. IV.] 


ITS DIFFCULTIFS. 


153 


re-loaded when safe upon the opposite bank. The 
operation of loading a camel with about 700 lbs. of 
luggage of indescribable variety is at all times tedious; 
but no sooner had we crossed one ravine with difficulty 
than we arrived at another, and the same fatiguing 
operation had to be repeated, with frightful loss of 
time at the moment when I beiieved the Turks were 
following on our path. 

My wife and I rode about a quarter of a mile at the 
head of the party as an advance guard,' to warn the 
caravan of any difficulty. The very nature of the 
country declared that it must be full of ravines, and 
yet I could not help hoping against hope that we 
might have a clear mile of road without a break. The 
evening had passed, and the light faded. What had 
been difficult and tedious during the day, now became 
most serious ;—we could not see the branches of hooked 
thorns that overhung the broken path; I rode in 
advance, my face and arms bleeding with countless 
scratches, while at each rip of a thorn I gave a warning 
shout—"Thorn ! " for those behind, and a cry of "Hole ! " 
for any deep rut that lay in the path. It was fortu¬ 
nately moonlight, but the jungle was so thick that the 
narrow track was barely perceptible; thus both camels 
and donkeys ran against the trunks of trees, smashing 
the luggage, - and breaking all that could be broken : 


154 


DELAYS ON THE ROAD . 


[chap. IV. 


nevertheless, the case was urgent; march we must, at 
all hazards. 

My heart sank whenever we came to a deep ravine, 
or Hor; the warning cry of " halt " told those in the 
rear that once more the camels must be unloaded, and 
the same fatiguing operation must be repeated. For 
hours we marched : the moon was sinking; the path, 
already dark, grew darker; the animals overloaded, 
even for a good road, were tired out; and the men 
were disheartened, thirsty, and disgusted. I dismounted 
from my horse and loaded him with sacks, to relieve 
a camel that was perfectly done—but on we marched. 
Every one was silent; the men were too tired to speak; 
and through the increasing gloom we crept slowly 
forward. Suddenly another ravine, but not so deep ; 
and we trusted that the camels might cross it without 
the necessity of unloading;—down went the leading 
camel, rolling completely over with his load to the 
bottom. Now, the boy Saat was the drummer; but 
being very tired, he had come to the conclusion that 
the drum would travel quite as easily upon a camel's 
back as upon his shoulders; he had accordingly slung 
it upon the very camel that had now performed a 
somersault and solo on the drum. The musical in¬ 
strument was picked up in the shape of a flat dish, and 
existed no longer as a drum, every note having been 


chap, iv.] CLEVERNESS OF TEE DONKEYS. 155 

squeezed out of it. The donkey is a much more cal¬ 
culating animal than the camel, the latter being an 
excessively stupid beast, while the former is remarkably 
clever—at least I can answer for the ability of the 
Egyptian species. The expression " what an ass ! " is 
in Europe supposed to be slightly insulting, but a 
comparison with the Egyptian variety would be a com¬ 
pliment. Accordingly my train of donkeys, being calcu¬ 
lating and reasoning creatures, had from this night's 
experience come to the conclusion that the journey 
was long ; that the road was full of ravines ; that the 
camels who led the way would assuredly tumble into 
these ravines unless unloaded; and that as the re¬ 
loading at each ravine would occupy at least half an 
hour, it would be wise for them (the donkeys) to 
employ that time in going to sleep—therefore, as it 
was just as cheap to lie down as to stand, they pre¬ 
ferred a recumbent posture, and a refreshing roll upon 
the sandy ground. Accordingly, whenever the word 
" halt " was given, the clever donkeys thoroughly un¬ 
derstood their advantage, and the act of unloading a 
camel on arrival at a ravine was a signal sufficient to 
induce each of twenty-one donkeys to lie down. It 
was in vain that the men beat and swmre at them to 
keep them on their legs; the donkeys were determined, 
and lie down they would. This obstinacy on their 


156 


PARTY DEAD-BEAT. 


[chap. IV. 


part was serious to the march—every time that they 
lay clown they shifted their loads; some of the most 
wilful persisted in rolling, and of course upset their 
packs. There were only seventeen men, and these 
were engaged in assisting the camels; thus the twenty- 
one donkeys had it all their own way; and what added 
to the confusion was the sudden cry of hyenas in close 
proximity, which so frightened the donkeys that they 
immediately sprang to their feet, with their packs 
lying discomfited, entangled among their legs. Thus, 
no sooner were the camels re-loaded on the other side 
of the ravine, than all the donkeys had to undergo the 
same operation ;—during which time the camels, how¬ 
ever stupid, having observed the donkeys' " dodge," 
took the opportunity of lying down also, and neces¬ 
sarily shifted their loads. The women were therefore 
ordered to hold the camels, to prevent them from lying 
down while the donkeys were being re-loaded; but 
the women were dead tired, as they had been carrying 
loads; they themselves laid down, and it being dark, 
they were not observed until a tremendous scream w r as 
heard, and we found that a camel had lain down on 
the top or A woman who had been placed to watch it, 
but who had herself fallen asleep. The camel was with 
difficulty raised, and the woman dragged from beneath. 
Everything was tired out. I had been working like a 


CHAP. IV.] 


IMPROVIDENCE OF MONKEY. 


157 


slave to assist, and to cheer the men; I was also 
fatigued. We had marched from 4.30 p.m. —it was 
now 1 a.m. ; we had thus been eight hours and a half 
struggling along the path. The moon had sunk, and 
the complete darkness rendered a further advance im¬ 
possible; I therefore, on arrival at a large plateau of 
rock, ordered the animals to be unloaded, and both man 
and beast to rest. The people had no water; I had a 
girba full for Mrs. Baker and myself, which was 
always slung on my saddle; this precaution I never 
neglected. 

The men were hungry. Before leaving G-ondokoro 
I had ordered a large quantity of kisras (black pan¬ 
cakes) to be prepared for the march, and they were 
packed in a basket that had been carried on a camel; 
unfortunately Mrs. Baker's pet monkey had been placed 
upon the same camel, and he had amused himself 
during the night's march by feasting and filling his 
cheeks with the kisras, and throwing the remainder 
away when his hunger was satisfied. There literally 
was not a kisra remaining in the basket. 

Every one lay down supperless to sleep. Although 
tired, I could not rest until I had arranged some plan 
for the morrow. It was evident that we could not 
travel over so rough a country with the animals thus 
overloaded; I therefore determined to leave in the 


158 


WE OBTAIN WATER. 


[chap. IV. 


jungle such articles as could be dispensed with, and 
to re-arrange all the loads. 

At 4 a.m. I woke, and lighting a lamp, I tried in 
vain to wake any of the men who lay stretched upon 
the ground, like so many corpses, sound asleep. At 
length Saat sat up, and after rubbing his eyes for 
about ten minutes, he made a fire, and began to boil 
the coffee; meanwhile I was hard at work lighten¬ 
ing the ship. I threw away about 100 lbs. of salt; 
divided the heavy ammunition more equally among 
the animals; rejected a quantity of odds and ends 
that, although most useful, could be forsaken ; and by 
the time the men woke, a little before sunrise, I had 
completed the work. We now re-loaded the animals, 
who showed the improvement by stepping out briskly. 
We marched well for three hours at a pace that bid 
fair to keep us well ahead of the Turks, and at length 
we reached the dry bed of a stream, where the Latooka 
guides assured us we should obtain water by digging. 
This proved correct; but the holes were dug deep in 
several places, and hours passed before we could secure 
a sufficient supply for all the men and animals. The 
great sponging-batli was excessively useful, as it formed 
a reservoir out of which all the animals could drink. 

While we were thus engaged some natives appeared 
carrying with them the head of a wild boar in a 


CHAP, IV.] 


NATIVE TIT-BITS, 


159 


horrible state of decomposition, and alive with mag¬ 
gots. On arrival at the drinking-place they imme¬ 
diately lighted a fire, and proceeded to cook their 
savoury pork by placing it in the flames. The sknll 
becoming too hot for the inmates, crowds of maggots 
rushed pSle-mele from the ears and nostrils like people 
escaping from the doors of a theatre on fire. The 
natives merely tapped the skull with a stick to assist 
in their exit, and proceeded with their cooking until 
completed; after which they eat the whole, and sucked 
the bones. However putrid meat may be, it does not 
appear to affect the health of these people. 

My animals requiring rest and food, I was obliged 
to wait unwillingly until 4.30 p.m. The natives having 
finished their boar's head, offered to join us; and 
accordingly we rode on a considerable distance ahead 
of our people with our active guides, while the caravan 
followed slowly behind us. After ascending for about 
a mile through jungle, we suddenly emerged upon an 
eminence, and looked down upon the valley of Tollogo. 
This was extremely picturesque. An abrupt wall of 
grey granite rose on the east side of the valley to 
a height of about a thousand feet: from this perpen¬ 
dicular wall huge blocks had fallen, strewing the base 
with a confused mass of granite lumps ten to forty 
feet in diameter; and among these natural fortresses 


160 SURROUNDED BY NATIVES. [chap. iv. 

of disjointed masses were numerous villages. The 
bottom of the valley was a meadow, in which grew 
several enormous fig-trees by the side of a sluggish, 
and in some places, stagnant brook. The valley was 
not more than half a mile wide, and was also walled 
in by mountains on the west, having the appearance 
of a vast street. 

We were now about a mile ahead of our party; 
but accompanied by our two Latooka guides, and upon 
descending to the valley and crossing a deep gully, 
we soon arrived beneath a large fig-tree at the extre¬ 
mity of the vale. No sooner was our presence observed 
than crowds of natives issued from the numerous 
villages among the rocks, and surrounded us. They 
were all armed with bows and arrows and lances, and 
were very excited at seeing the horses, which to them 
were unknown animals. Dismounting, I fastened the 
horses to a bush, and we sat down on the grass under 
a tree. 

There were five or six hundred natives pressing 
round us. They were excessively noisy, hallooing to 
us as though we were deaf, simply because we did not 
understand them. Finding that they were pressing 
rudely around us, I made signs to them to stand off, 
when at that moment a curiously ugly, short, humped- 
back fellow came forward and addressed me in broken 


CHAP. IV.] 


CROSS-EXAMINATION. 


161 


Arabic. I was delighted to find an interpreter, and 
requesting him to tell the crowd to stand back, I 
inquired for their chief. The humpback spoke very 
little Arabic, nor did the crowd appear to heed him, 
but they immediately stole a spear that one of my 
Latooka guides had placed against the tree under 
which we were sitting. It was getting rather un¬ 
pleasant ; but having my revolver and a double- 
barrelled rifle in my hands, there was no fear of their 
being stolen. 

In reply to a question to the humpback, he asked 
me " Who I was ? 77 I explained that I was a traveller. 
"You want ivory ? 77 he said. "No/ 7 I answered, "it 
is of no use to me. 77 " Ah, you want slaves 1 77 he 

replied. " Neither do I want slaves, 77 I answered. 
This was followed by a burst of laughter from the 
crowd, and the humpback continued his examination. 
"Have you got plenty of cows? 77 "Not one; but 
plenty of beads and copper. 77 " Plenty ? Where are 
they ? 77 " Not far off; they will be here presently 

with my men; 77 and I pointed to the direction from 
which they would arrive. " What countryman are 
you ? 77 " An Englishman. 7 He had never heard of 

such people. "You are a Turk? 77 "All right, 77 I 
replied; "I am anything you like. 77 "And that is 
your son? 77 (pointing at Mrs. Baker.) "No, she is 

VOL. I. M 


162 


RECOGNITION OF THE CHIEF. 


[chap. IV. 


my wife." " Your wife ! What a lie ! He is a boy." 
" Hot a bit of it," I replied; " she is my wife, who has 
come with me to see the women of this country."' 
" What a lie! " he again politely rejoined in the one 
expressive Arabic word, " Katab " 

After this charmingly frank conversation he addressed 
the crowd, explaining, I suppose, that I was endea¬ 
vouring to pass off a boy for a woman. Mrs. Baker 
was dressed similar to myself in a pair of loose trousers 
and gaiters, with a blouse and belt—the only difference 

being that she wore long sleeves, while my arms were 

* 

bare from a few inches below the shoulder. I always 
kept my arms bare as being cooler than if covered. 

The curiosity of the crowd was becoming imper¬ 
tinent, when at an opportune moment the chief 
appeared. To my astonishment I recognised him as 
a man who had often visited me at Gondokoro, to 
whom I had given many presents without knowing 
his position. 

In a few moments he drove away the crowd, 
screaming and gesticulating at them as though greatly 
insulted; reserving the humpback as interpreter, he 
apologized for the rudeness of his people. Just at this 
instant I perceived, in the distance, the English flag 
leading the caravan of camels and donkeys from the 
hillside into the valley, and my people and baggage 


chap. iv.J INTEREST OF NATIVES. 163 

shortly arrived. The chief now brought me a large 
pumpkin-shell containing about a gallon of merissa, 
or native beer, which was most refreshing. He also 
brought a gourd-bottle full of honey, and an ele¬ 
phant's tusk; the latter I declined, as ivory was not 
required. 

We were now within six miles of Ellyria, and by 
means of the humpback I explained to Tombe, the 
chief, that we wished to start the first thing in the 
morning, and that I would engage the humpback as 
interpreter. This was agreed upon, and I now had 
hopes of getting through Ellyria before the arrival 
of the Turks. My caravan having arrived, the interest 
first bestowed upon the horses, as being a new kind 
of animal, was now transferred to the camels. The 
natives crowded round them, exclaiming, " that they 
were the giraffes of our country." They were amazed 
at the loads that they carried, and many assisted in 
unloading. 

I noticed, however, that they stuck their fingers 
through the baskets to investigate the contents; and 
when they perceived twenty baskets full of beads, 
and many of copper bracelets—the jingling of which 
betrayed the contents—they became rather too eager 
in lending a helping hand; therefore I told the chief 
to order his men to retire while I opened one bag 

M 2 


164 


tile monkey wallaby ; 


[chap. IV. 


of beads to give him a present. I had a bag always 
in reserve that contained a variety of beads and 
bracelets, which obviated the necessity of opening 
one of the large baskets on the road. I accordingly 
made the chief happy, and also gave a present to the 
humpback. The crowd now discovered an object of 
fresh interest, and a sudden rush was made to the 
monkey, which, being one of the red variety from 
Abyssinia, was quite unknown to them. The monkey, 
being far more civilized than these naked savages, did 
not at all enjoy their society; and attacking the 
utterly unprotected calves of their legs, " Wallady " 
soon kept his admirers at a distance, and amused 
himself by making insulting grimaces, which kept 
the crowd in a roar of laughter. I often found this 
monkey of great use in diverting the attention of the 
savages from myself. He was also a guarantee of my 
peaceful intentions, as no one intending hostility would 
travel about with a monkey as one of the party. He 
was so tame and affectionate to both of us that he 
was quite unhappy if out of sight of his mistress ; but 
he frequently took rough liberties with the blacks, for 
whom he had so great an aversion and contempt that 
he would have got into sad trouble at Exeter Hall. 
" Wallady" had no idea of a naked savage being "a 


man and a brother." 


CHAP. IV.] 


WE LEAVE TOLLOGO. 


165 


That night we slept soundly, both men and beasts 
being thoroughly fatigued. The natives seemed to be 
aware of this, and a man was caught in the act of 
stealing copper bracelets from a basket. He had crept 
like a cat upon hands and knees to the spot where the 
luggage was piled, and the sleepy sentry had not 
observed him. 

There was no drum-call on the following morning, 
that useful instrument having been utterly smashed 
by the camel; but I woke the men early, and told them 
to be most careful in arranging the loads securely, as 
we had to thread the rocky pass between Tollogo and 
Ellyria. I felt sure that the Turks could not be far 
behind us, and I looked forward with anxiety to getting 
through the pass before them. 

The natives of both Tollogo and Ellyria are the 
same in appearance and language as the Bari; they 
are very brutal in manner, and they collected in large 
crowds on our departure, with by no means a friendly 
aspect. Many of them ran on ahead under the base of 
the rocks, apparently to give notice at Ellyria of our 
arrival. I had three men as an advance guard,—¦ 
five or six in the rear,—while the remainder drove the 
animals. Mrs. Baker and I rode on horseback at the 
head of the party. On arriving at the extremity of 
the narrow valley we had to thread our way through 


166 


THE ELLYRIA PASS. 


[chap. IV. 


the difficult pass. The mountain of Ellyria, between 
two and three thousand feet high, rose abruptly on our 
left, while the base was entirely choked with enormous 
fragments of grey granite that having fallen from the 
face of the mountain had completely blocked the pass. 
Even the horses had great difficulty in threading their 
way through narrow alleys formed of opposing blocks, 
and it appeared impossible for loaded camels to proceed. 
The path was not only thus obstructed, but was broken 
by excessively deep ravines formed by the torrents 
that during the rains tore eveiything before them 
in their impetuous descent from the mountains. To 
increase the difficulties of the pass many trees and 
bushes were growing from the interstices of the rocks ; 
thus in places where the long legs of the camels could 
have cleared a narrow cleft, the loads became jammed 
between the trees. These trees were for the most part 
intensely hard wood, a species of lignum vitae, called 
by the Arabs " babanoose," and were quite proof against 
our axes. Had the natives been really hostile they 
could have exterminated us in five minutes, as it was 
only necessary to hurl rocks from above to insure 
our immediate destruction. It was in this spot that 
a traders party of 126 men, well armed, had been 
massacred to a man the year previous. 

Bad as the pass w r as, we had hope before us, as the 


CHAP. IV.] 


A RACE FOR ELLYRIA. 


167 


Latookas explained that beyond this spot there was 
level and unbroken ground the whole way to Latooka. 
Could we only clear Ellyria before the Turks I had no 
fear for the present; but at the very moment when 
success depended upon speed, we were thus baffled by 
the difficulties of the ground. I therefore resolved 
to ride on in advance of my party, leaving them to 
overcome the difficulties of the pass by constantly 
unloading the animals, while I would reconnoitre in 
front, as Ellyria was not far distant. My wife and 
I accordingly rode on, accompanied only by one of the 
Latookas as a guide. After turning a sharp angle of 
the mountain, leaving the cliff abruptly rising to the 
left from the narrow path, we descended a ravine worse 
than any place we had previously encountered, and we 
were obliged .to dismount, in order to lead our horses 
up the steep rocks on the opposite side. On arrival on 
the summit, a lovely view burst upon us. The valley 
of Ellyria was about four hundred feet below, at about 
a mile distant. Beautiful mountains, some two or 
three thousand feet high, of grey granite walled in the 
narrow vale; while the landscape of forest and plain 
was bounded at about fifty or sixty miles distance to 
the east by the blue mountains of Latooka. The 
mountain of Ellyria was the commencement of the 
fine range that continued indefinitely to the south. 


168 


ELLYR1AN VILLAGES PALISADED . 


[chap. it. 


We were now in the very gorge of that chain. Below 
ns, in the valley, I observed some prodigious trees 
growing close to a Hor (ravine), in which was running 
water, and the sides of the valley under the mountains 
being as usual a mass of debris of huge detached rocks, 
were thronged with villages, all strongly fortified with 
thick bamboo palisades. The whole country was a series 
of natural forts, occupied by a large population. 

A glance at the scene before me was quite sufficient; 
—to fight a way through a valley a quarter of a mile 
wide, hemmed in by high walls of rock and bristling 
with lances and arrows, would be impossible with my 
few men, encumbered by transport animals. Should 
the camels arrive, I could march into Ellyria in twenty 
minutes, make the chief a large present, and pass on 
without halting until I cleared the Ellyria valley. At 
any rate I was well before the Turks, and the forced 
march at night, however distressing, had been successful. 
The great difficulty now lay in the ravine that we had 
just crossed; this would assuredly delay the caravan 
for a considerable time. 

Tying our horses to a bush, we sat upon a rock 
beneath the shade of a small tree within ten paces of 
the path, and considered the best course to pursue. 
I hardly liked to risk an advance into Ellyria alone, 
before the arrival of my whole party, as we had been 


CHAP. IV.] 


OUTMARCHED BY THE TURKS. 


169 


very rudely received by the Tollogo people on the 
previous evening;—nevertheless I thought it might 
be good policy to ride unattended into Ellyria, and 
thus to court an introduction to the chief. However, 
our consultation ended in a determination to wait 
where we then were, until the caravan should have 
accomplished the last difficulty by crossing the ravine; 
when we would all march into Ellyria in company. 
For a long time we sat gazing at the valley before us 
in which our fate lay hidden, feeling thankful that wc 
had thus checkmated the brutal Turks. Not a sound 
was heard of our approaching camels; the delay was 
most irksome. There were many difficult places that 
we had passed through, and each would be a source 
of serious delay to the animals. 

At length we heard them in the distance. We could 
distinctly hear the men s voices; and we rejoiced 
that they were approaching the last remaining 
obstacle;—that one ravine passed through, and all 
before would be easy. I heard the rattling of the 
stones as they drew nearer; and, looking towards the 
ravine, I saw emerge from the dark foliage of the 
trees within fifty yards of us the hated red flag and 
crescent , leading the Turks' party! We were out¬ 
marched! 

One by one, with scowling looks, the insolent scoun- 


170 


IBRAHIM AND HIS MEN. 


[chap. IV. 


drels filed by us within a few feet, without making the 
customary salaam ; neither noticing us in any way, 
except by threatening to shoot the Latooka, our guide, 
who had formerly accompanied them. 

Their party consisted of a hundred and forty men 
armed with guns; while about twice as many Latookas 
acted as porters, carrying beads, ammunition, and the 
general effects of the party. It appeared that we were 
hopelessly beaten. 

However, I determined to advance, at all hazards, 
on the arrival of my party; and should the Turks 
incite the Ellyria tribe to attack us, 1 intended, in the 
event of a fight, to put the first shot through the 
leader. To be thus beaten, at the last moment, was 
unendurable. Boiling with indignation as the insolent 
wretches filed past, treating me with the contempt of 
a dog, 1 longed for the moment of action, no matter 
what were the odds against us. At length their leader, 
Ibrahim, appeared in the rear of the party. He was 
riding on a donkey, being the last of the line, behind 
the flag that closed the march. 

I never saw a more atrocious countenance than that 
exhibited in this man. A mixed breed, between a 
Turk sire and Arab mother, he had the good features 
and the bad qualities of either race. The fine, sharp, 
high-arclied nose and large nostril; the pointed and 


chap. iv.J ATTEMPT AT RECONCILIATION. 171 

projecting cliin; rather high cheek-bones and promi¬ 
nent brow, overhanging a pair of immense black eyes 
full of expression of all evil. As he approached he 
took no notice of ns, but studiously looked straight 
before him with the most determined insolence. 

The fate of the expedition was, at this critical 
moment, retrieved by Mrs. Baker. She implored me 
to call him, to insist upon a personal explanation, and 
to offer him some present in the event of establishing 
amicable relations. I could not condescend to address 
the sullen scoundrel. He was in the act of passing 
us, and success depended upon that instant. Mrs. 
Baker herself called him. For the moment he made 
no reply; but, upon my repeating the call in a loud 
key, he turned his donkey towards us and dismounted. 
I ordered him to sit down, as his men were ahead and 
we were alone. 

The following dialogue passed between us after the 
usual Arab mode of greeting. I said, " Ibrahim, why 
should we be enemies in the midst of this hostile 
country ? We believe in the same God, why should 
we quarrel in this land of heathens, who believe in no 
God ? ' You have your work to perform ; I have mine. 
You want ivory; I am a simple traveller ; why should 
we clash ? If I were offered the whole ivory of the 
country I would not accept a single tusk, nor interfere 


172 


DIPLOMACY. 


[chap. IV. 


with you in any way. Transact your business, and 
don't interfere with me : the country is wide enough 
for us both. I have a task before me, to reach a great 
lake—the head of the Nile. Reach it I will (In- 
shallah). No power shall drive me back. If you 
are hostile, I will imprison you in Khartoum; if you 
assist me, I will reward you far beyond any reward 
you have ever received. Should I be killed in this 
country, you will be suspected; you know the result; 
the Government would hang you on the bare suspicion. 
On the contrary, if you are friendly, I will use my 
influence in any country that I discover, that you 
may procure its ivory for the sake of your master 
Koorshid, who was generous to Captains Speke and 
Grant, and kind to me. Should you be hostile, I 
shall hold your master responsible as your employer. 
Should you assist me, I will befriend you both. 
Choose your course frankly, like a man—friend or 
enemy ? " 

Before he had time to reply, Mrs. Baker addressed 
him much in the same strain, telling him that he 
did not know what Englishmen were ; that nothing 
would drive them back ; that the British Government 
watched over them wherever they might be, and that 
no outrage could be committed with impunity upon 
a British subject. That I would not deceive him in 


CHAP. IV.] PEACE ESTABLISHED. 1J3 

any way; that I was not a trader ; and that I should 
be able to assist him materially by discovering new 
countries rich in ivory, and that he would benefit 
himself personally by civil conduct. 

He seemed confused, and wavered. I immediately 
promised him a new double-barrelled gun and some 
gold, when my party should arrive, as an earnest of 
the future. 

He replied, "That he did not himself wish to be 
hostile, but that all the trading parties, without one 
exception, were against me, and that the men were 
convinced that I was a consul in disguise, who would 
report to the authorities at Khartoum all the pro¬ 
ceedings of the traders." He continued, " That he 
believed me, but that his men would not; that all 
people told lies in their country, therefore no one was 
credited for the truth. However," said he, " do not 
associate with my people, or they may insult you, but 
go and take possession of that large tree (pointing to 
one in the valley of Ellyria) for yourself and people, 
and I will come there and speak with you. I will now 
join my men, as I do not wish them to know that 
I have been conversing with you." He then made 
a salaam, mounted his donkey, and rode off. 

I had won him. I knew the Arab character so 
thoroughly that I was convinced that the tree he 


174 


ARRIVE AT ELLYRIA. 


[chap, IV. 


had pointed out, followed by the words, " I will come 
there and speak with you," was to be the rendezvous 
for the receipt of the promised gun and money. 

I did not wait for the arrival of my men, but 
mounting our horses, my wife and I rode down the 
hillside with lighter spirits than we had enjoyed for 
some time past. I gave her the entire credit of the 
"ruse." Had I been alone, I should have been too 
proud to have sought the friendship of the sullen 
trader, and the moment on which success depended 
would have been lost. 

On arrival at the grassy plain, at the foot of the 
mountain, there was a crowd of the traders ruffians 
quarrelling for the shade of the few large trees that 
grew on the banks of the stream. We accordingly 
dismounted, and turning the horses to graze, we took 
possession of a tree at some distance, under which 
a number of Latookas were already sitting. Not being 
very particular as to our society, we sat down and 
waited for the arrival of our party. The valley of 
Ellyria was a lovely spot in the very bosom of the 
mountains. Close to where we sat were the great 
masses of rock that had fallen from the cliffs, and 
upon examination I found them to be the finest 
quality of grey granite, the feldspar being in masses 
several inches square and as hard as a flint. There 


chap, iv.] LEGGE } THE CHIEF OF ELLYRIA. 175 

was no scaling upon the surface, as is common in 
granite rocks. 

No sooner had the trader s party arrived than crowds 
of natives issued from the palisaded villages on the 
mountain; and descending to the plain, they mingled 
with the general confusion. The baggage was piled 
beneath a tree, and a sentry placed on guard. 



LE<5GE THE CHIEF. 


The natives were entirely naked, and precisely the 
same as the Bari. Their chief, Legge, was among 
them, and received a present from Ibrahim of a 
long red cotton shirt, and he assumed an air 
of great importance. Ibrahim explained to him who 
I was, and he immediately came to ask for the 
tribute he expected to receive as " black mail " for 


176 


PRESENTS TO ABRAHIM. 


[chap. IV. 


the right of entree into his country. Of all the 
villanous countenances that I have ever seen, that 
of Legge excelled. Ferocity, avarice, and sensuality 
were stamped upon his face, and I immediately 
requested him to sit for his portrait, and in about 
ten minutes I succeeded in placing within my port¬ 
folio an exact likeness of about the greatest rascal 
that exists even in Central Africa. 

I had now the satisfaction of seeing my caravan 
slowly winding down the hillside in good order, having 
surmounted all their difficulties. 

Upon arrival, my men were perfectly astonished at 
seeing us so near the traders party, and still more 
confounded at my sending for Ibrahim to summon 
him to my tree, where I presented him with some 
English sovereigns and a double-barrelled gun. Nothing 
escapes the inquisitiveness of these Arabs; and the 
men of both parties quickly perceived that I had estab¬ 
lished an alliance in some unaccountable manner with 
Ibrahim. I saw the gun, lately presented to him, being 
handed from one to the other for examination; and 
both my vakeel and men appeared utterly confused at 
the sudden change. 

The chief of Ellyria now came to inspect my 
luggage, and demanded fifteen heavy copper bracelets 
and a large quantity of beads. The bracelets most in 


CHAP. IV.] 


LEGGE'S INTEMPERANCE. 


177 


demand are simple rings of copper -fths of an inch, 
thick, and weighing about a pound; those of smaller 
size not being so much valued. I gave him fifteen such 
rings, and about ten pounds of beads in varieties, the 
red coral porcelain (dimiriaf) being the most accept¬ 
able. Legge was by no means satisfied : he said, " his 
belly was very big and it must be filled," which signi¬ 
fied, that his desire was great and must be gratified. 
I accordingly gave him a few extra copper rings ; but 
suddenly he smelt spirits, one of the few bottles that 
I possessed of spirits of wine having broken in the 
medicine chest. Ibrahim begged me to give him a 
bottle to put him in a good humour, as he enjoyed 
nothing so much as araki; I accordingly gave him 
a pint bottle of the strongest spirits of wine. To my 
amazement he broke off the neck, and holding his 
head well back, he deliberately allowed the whole of 
the contents to trickle down his throat as inno¬ 
cently as though it had been simple water. He 
was thoroughly accustomed to it, as the traders were 
in the habit of bringing him presents of araki every 
season. He declared this to be excellent, and demanded 
another bottle. At that moment a violent storm of 
thunder and rain burst upon us with a fury well 
known in the tropics; the rain fell like a waterspout, 
and the throng immediately fled for shelter. So 


VOL. I. 


VIOLENT STORMS. 


178 


[chap. IV. 


violent was the storm, that not a man was to he seen : 
some were sheltering themselves under the neigh- 
bouring rocks; while others ran to their villages 
that were close by; the traders people commenced 
a fusilade, firing off all their guns lest they should 
get wet and miss fire. I could not help thinking how 
completely they were at the mercy of the natives at 
that moment, had they chosen to attack them ; the 
trader s party were lying under their untanned ox-hides 
with their empty guns. Each of my men was pro¬ 
vided with a piece of mackintosh, with which his gun - 
locks were secured. We lay upon an angarep covered 
with a bull's hide until the storm was over. The 
thunder was magnificent, exploding on the peak of 
the mountain exactly above us, and in the course 
of a quarter of an hour torrents were rushing down 
the ravines among the rocks, the effects of the violent 
storm that had passed away as rapidly as it had 
arrived. 

No sooner had it ceased than the throng again 
appeared. Once more the chief, " Legge," was before 
us begging for all that we had. Although the natives, 
asked for beads, they would give nothing in exchange,, 
and we could purchase nothing for any article except 
molotes. These iron hoes are made principally in this 
country: thus it appeared strange that they should 


CHAP. IV.] 


NO SUPPLIES . 


179 


demand them. Legge does a large business with these 
hoes, sending them into the Berri and Galla countries 
to the east, with various beads and copper bracelets, to 
purchase ivory. Although there are very few elephants 
in the neighbourhood of Ellyria, there is an immense 
amount of ivory, as the chief is so great a trader that 
he accumulates it to exchange with the Turks for 
cattle. Although he sells it so dear that he demands 
twenty cows for a large tusk, it is a convenient station 
for the traders, as, being near to Gondokoro, there 
is very little trouble in delivering the ivory on ship¬ 
board. 

Although I had presented Legge with what he 
desired, he would give nothing in return, neither 
would he sell either goats or fowls; in fact, no pro¬ 
vision was procurable except honey. I purchased about 
eight pounds of this luxury for a hoe. My men were 
starving, and I was obliged to serve them out rice 
from my sacred stock, as I had nothing else to give 
them. This they boiled and mixed with honey, and 
they were shortly sitting round an immense circular 
bowl of this rarity, enjoying themselves thoroughly, 
but nevertheless grumbling as usual. In the coolest 
manner possible the great and greedy chief, Legge, 
who had refused to give or even to sell anything to 
keep us from starving, no sooner saw the men at their 


180 


FORMATION OF SKULLS. 


[chap. IV. 


novel repast than he sat down among them and almost 
choked himself by cramming handfuls of the hot rice 
and honey into his mouth, which yawned like that of 
an old hippopotamus. The men did not at all approve 
of this assistance, but as it is the height of bad man¬ 
ners in Arab etiquette to repel a self-invited guest 
from the general meal, he was not interfered with, 
and was thus enabled to swallow the share of about 
three persons. 

Legge, although worse than the rest of his tribe, 
had a similar formation of head. The Bari and those 
of Tollogo and Ellyria have generally bullet-shaped 
heads, low foreheads, skulls heavy behind the ears 
and above the nape of the neck: altogether their 
appearance is excessively brutal, and they are armed 
with bows six feet long, and arrows horribly barbed 
and poisoned. 


CHAPTER V; 


LEAVE ELLYRIA. 

Although Ellyria was a ricli and powerful country, 
we had not been able to procure any provisions—the 
natives refused to sell, and their general behaviour 
was such that assured me of their capability of any 
atrocity had they been prompted to attack us by the 
Turks. Fortunately we had a good supply of meal 
that had been prepared for the journey prior to our 
departure from Gondokoro, thus we could not starve. 
I also had a sack of corn for the animals, a necessary 
precaution, as at this season there was not a blade of 
grass ; all in the vicinity of the route having been 
burnt. 

We started on the 30th March, at 7.30 a.m. and 
opened from the valley of Ellyria upon a perfectly flat 
country interspersed with trees. After an hours march 
we halted at a small stream of bad water. We had 


182 


WE LEAVE ELLYRIA. 


[chap. V. 


kisras and honey for breakfast; but, for several days not 
having tasted meat, I took the rifle for a stroll through 
the forest in search of game. After an hours ramble 
I returned without having fired a shot. I had come 
upon fresh tracks of Tetel (hartebeest) and guinea- 
fowl, but they had evidently come down to the stream 
to drink, and had wandered back into the interior. If 
game was scarce, fruit was plentiful—both Richarn 
and I were loaded with a species of yellow plum as 
large as an egg; these grew in prodigious numbers 
upon fine forest trees, beneath which the ground was 
yellow with the quantities that had fallen from the 
boughs ; these were remarkably sweet, and yet acid, 
with much juice, and a very delicious flavour. 

At 11.25 we again started for a long march, our 
course being east. The ground was most favourable for 
the animals, being perfectly flat and free from ravines. 
We accordingly stepped along at a brisk pace, and the 
intense heat of the sun throughout the hottest hours 
of the day made the journey fatiguing for all but 
the camels. The latter were excellent of their class, 
.and now far excelled the other transport animals, 
marching along with ease under loads of about 600 lbs. 
each. 

My caravan was at the rear of the traders party; 
but the ground being good, we left our people and 


chap, v.] BRUTALITY TOWARDS THE WOMEN. 183 

cantered on to the advanced flag. It was curious to 
witness the motley assemblage in single file extending 
over about half a mile of ground -several of the 
people were mounted on donkeys; some on oxen : the 
most were on foot, including all the women to the 
number of about sixty, who were the slaves of the 
trader s people. These carried heavy loads; and many 
in addition to the burdens carried children strapped 
to their backs in leather slings. After four or five hours' 
march during the intense heat many of the overloaded 
women showed symptoms of distress, and became foot¬ 
sore the grass having been recently burnt had left 
the sharp charred stumps, which were very trying to 
those whose sandals were not in the best condition. 
The women were forced along by their brutal owners 
with sharp blows of the coorbatch ; and one who was 
far advanced in pregnancy could at length go no 
farther. Upon this the savage to whom she belonged 
belaboured her with a large stick, and not succeeding 
in driving her before him, he knocked her down and 
jumped upon her. The woman's feet were swollen 
and bleeding, but later in the day I again saw her 
hobbling along in the rear by the aid of a bamboo. 

The traders march in good form; one flag leads the 
party, guarded by eight or ten men, while a native 
carries a box of five hundred cartridges for their use 


184 


ORDER OF MARCH. 


[chap. y. 


in case of an attack. The porters and baggage follow 
in single file, soldiers being at intervals to prevent 
them from running away ; in which case the runner is 
invariably fired at. The supply of ammunition is in 
the centre, carried generally by about fifteen natives, 
and strongly escorted by guards. The rear of the 
party is closed by another flag, behind which no 
straggler is permitted. The rear flag is also guarded 
by six or eight men, with a box of spare ammunition. 
With these arrangements the party is always ready to 
support an attack. 

Ibrahim, my new ally, was now riding in front of the 
line, carrying on his saddle before him a pretty little 
girl, his daughter, a child of a year and a half old; 
her mother, a remarkably pretty Bari girl, one of his 
numerous wives, was riding behind him on an ox. We 
soon got into conversation ;—a few pieces of sugar 
given to the child and mother by Mrs. Baker was a 
sweet commencement; and Ibrahim then told me to 
beware of my own men, as he knew they did not 
intend to remain with me ; that they were a different 
tribe from his men, and they would join Chenoodas 
people and desert me on our arrival at their station in 
Latooka. This was a corroboration of all I had heard 
previous to leaving Gondokoro, therefore I had the 
promised mutiny in perspective. I had noticed that 


CHAP. V.] 


BBLLAAL . 


185 


my men were even more sullen than usual since I had 
joined Ibrahim; however, I succeeded in convincing 
him that he would benefit so decidedly by an alliance 
with me, that he now frankly told me that I should 
receive no opposition from his party. So far all had 

b 

prospered beyond my most sanguine expectations. We 
were fairly launched upon our voyage, and now that 
we were in the wild interior, I determined to crush 
the mutiny with an iron hand should the rascals 
attempt to carry their murderous threats into execu¬ 
tion. Two or three of the men appeared willing, but 
the original ringleader, " Bellaal," would literally do 
nothing, not even assisting at loading the animals; 
but swaggering about with the greatest insolence. 

After a fatiguing march of eight hours and ten 
minutes through a perfectly fiat country interspersed 
with trees, we halted at a little well of excessively bad 
water at 7.35 p.m, The horses were so much in 
advance that the main party did not arrive until 11 p.m. 
completely fatigued. The night being fine, we slept 
on a hillock of sand a few yards from the well, rejoiced 
to be away from the mosquitoes of Gondokoro. 

On the following morning we started at sunrise, and 
in two hours' fast marching we arrived at the Kanieti 
river. Although there had been no rain, the stream 
was very rapid and up to the girths of the horses at 


186 DRAINAGE TOWARDS THE SOBAT. [chap. y. 

the ford. The banks were very abrupt and about 
fifteen feet deep, the bed between forty and fifty 
yards wide; thus a considerable volume of water is 
carried down to the river Sobat by this river during 
the rains. The whole drainage of the country tends 
to the east, and accordingly flows into the Sobat. The 
range of mountains running south from Ellyria is the 
watershed between the east and west drainage; the 
Sobat receiving it on the one hand, and the White Nile 
on the other, while the Nile eventually receives the 
entire flow by the Sobat, as previously mentioned, in 
lat. 9° 22 '. 

Having scrambled up the steep bank of the Kanieti 
river, we crossed a large field of dhurra, and arrived 
at the village of Wakkala. The village, or town, is 
composed of about seven hundred houses, the whole 
being most strongly protected by a system of pali¬ 
sades formed of "babanoose," the hard iron wood of 
the country. Not only is it thus fortified, but the 
palisades are also protected by a hedge of impervious 
thorns that grow to a height of about twenty feet. 
The entrance to this fort is a curious archway, about 
ten feet deep, formed of the iron-wood palisades, with 
a sharp turn to the right and left forming a ziggag. 
The whole of the village thus fenced is situated in 
the midst of a splendid forest of large timber. The 


/ 


<ghap. v.] GAME AT WAKKALA. 187 

inhabitants of Wakkala are the same as the Ellyria, 
but governed by an independent chief. They are 
great hunters; and as we arrived I saw several parties 
returning from the forest with portions of wild boar 
and buffalo. 

From Gondokoro to this spot I had not seen a 
single head of game, but the immediate neighbourhood 
of Wakkala was literally trodden down by the feet of 
elephants, giraffes, buffaloes, rhinoceros, and varieties 
of large antelopes. 

Having examined the village, I ordered my people 
to unload the animals in the forest about a quarter of 
a mile from the entrance. The soil was extremely 
rich, and the ground being shaded from the scorching 
rays of the sun by the large trees, there was abundance 
of fine grass, which accounted for the presence of the 
game : good pasturage, extensive forests, and a plen¬ 
tiful supply of water insuring the supply of wild 
animals. 

In a few minutes my horses and donkeys were 
luxuriating on the rich herbage, not having tasted 
grass for some days; the camels revelled in the 
foliage of the dark green mimosas; and the men, 
having found on the march a buffalo that had been 
caught in a trap and there killed by a lion, obtained 
•some meat, and the whole party was feeding. We 


188 


DELIGHTFUL SCENERY. 


[chap. V. 


had formed a kind of arbour by hacking out with 
a sabre a delightful shady nook in the midst of a 
dense mass of creepers, and there we feasted upon 
a couple of roast fowls that we had procured from 
the natives for glass beads. This was the first meat 
we had tasted s'ince we had quitted Gondokoro. 

At 5.10 p.m. we left this delightful spot, and 
marched. Emerging from the forest we broke upon 
a beautiful plain of fine low grass, bounded on our 
right hand by jungle. This being the cool hour of 
evening the plain was alive with game, including 
buffaloes, zebras, and many varieties of large antelopes. 
It was a most enlivening sight to see them scouring 
over the plain as we advanced; but our large party, 
and three red flags streaming in the breeze, effectually 
prevented us from getting sufficiently near for a shot. 

I was sorely tempted to remain in this Elysium for a 
few days' shooting, but the importance of an advance 
was too great to permit of any thoughts of amusement; 
thus, I could only indulge a sportsman s feelings by 
feasting my eyes upon the beautiful herds before me. 

At a quarter-past seven we bivouacked in thick 
jungle. In the middle of the night, the watch-fires 
still blazing, I was awoke by a great noise, and upon 
arrival at the spot I found a number of the Turks with 
firebrands, searching upon the ground, which was 


chap, v.] LATOOKA THIEVES. 189 

literally strewed with beads and copper bracelets. The 
Latooka porters had broken open the bags and baskets 
containing many hundred-weight of these objects, and 
loading themselves, had intended to desert with their 
stolen prize; but the sentries having discovered them, 
they were seized by the soldiers. These fellows, the 
Latookas, had exhibited the folly of monkeys in so 
rashly breaking open the packages while the sentries 
were on guard. Several who had been caught in 
the act were now pinioned by the Turks, and were im¬ 
mediately condemned to be shot; while others were 
held down upon the ground and well chastised with 
the coorbatcli. I begged that the punishment of 
death might be commuted for a good flogging;—at 
first I implored in vain, until I suggested, that if the 
porters were shot, there would be no one to carry their 
loads : —this practical argument saved them, and after 
receiving a severe thrashing, their arms were pinioned, 
and a guard set over them until the morning. 

We marched at 5.25 on the following morning. 

© © 

For several hours the path led through thick jungle in 
which we occasionally caught glimpses of antelopes. 
At length quitting the jungle we arrived at an open 
marshy plaiu, upon which I discerned at a great 
distance a number of antelopes. Having nothing to 
eat I determined to stalk them, as I heard from the 


190 


STALKING ANTELOPES. 


[chap. V. 


people that we were not far from our halting-place for 
the clay. 

Accordingly I left Mrs. Baker with my horse and a 
spare rifle to wait, while the party marched straight 
on ; I intended to make a circuit through the jungle 
and to wait for the entrance of the herd, which she 
was to drive, by simply riding through the plain and 
leading my horse ; she was to bring the horse to me 
should I fire a shot. After walking for about a mile in the 
jungle parallel with the plain, I saw the herd of about 
two hundred Tetel going at full gallop from the open 
ground into the jungle, having been alarmed by the 
Turks and the red flags, who had crossed over the 
marsh. So shy were these antelopes that there was 
no possibility of stalking them. I noticed however 
that there were several waterbucks in the very centre 
of the marsh, and that two or three trees afforded the 
possibility of a stalk. Having the wind all right, I 
succeeded in getting to a tree within about two hundred 
and fifty yards of the largest buck, and lying down in 
a dry trench that in the wet season formed a brook, I 
crept along the bottom until I reached a tall tuft of 
grass that was to be my last point of cover. Just as f 
raised myself slowly from the trench I found the buck 
watching me most attentively. A steady shot with 
my little No. 24 rifle took no effect—it was too high : 


CHAP. V.] 


CHASE AFTER WATERBUCK. 


191 


¦—the buck did not even notice the shot, which was I 
suppose the first he had ever heard;—he was standing 
exactly facing me; this is at all times an unpleasant 
position for a shot. Seeing that he did not seem 
disposed to move, I re-loaded without firing my 
left-hand barrel. I now allowed for the high range 
of the last shot; a moment after the report he sprang 
into the air, then fell upon his knees and galloped off 
on three legs;—one of the fore-legs being broken. I 
had heard the sharp sound of the bullet, but the shot 
was not very satisfactory. Turning to look for my 
horse I saw Mrs. Baker galloping over the plain to¬ 
wards me, leading Filfil, while Bicharn ran behind at 
his best speed. 

Upon her arrival I mounted Filfil, who was a fast 
horse, and with my little No. 24 rifle in my hand I 
rode slowly towards the wounded waterbuck, who was. 
now standing watching us at about a quarter of a 
# mile distant. However, before I had decreased my 
distance by a hundred yards he started off in full 
gallop. Putting Filfil into a canter I increased the 
pace until I found that I must press him at full speed, 
as the waterbuck, although on only three legs, had the 
best of it. The ground was rough, having been marshy 
and trodden into ruts by the game, but now dried by 
the sun ;—bad for both horse and antelope, but espe- 


192 


GOOD SERVICE OF RIFLE , 


[chap. V. 


cially for the former : however, after a race of about a 
mile I found myself gaining so rapidly that in a few 
moments I was riding on his left flank within three 
yards of him, and holding the rifle with one hand like 
a pistol I shot him dead through the shoulder. This 
little double rifle is an exceedingly handy weapon ;— 
it was made for me about nine years ago by Thomas 
Fletcher, gunmaker of Gloucester, and is of most per¬ 
fect workmanship. I have shot with it most kinds of 
large game ; although the bore is so small as No. 24, 
1 have bagged with it rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lions, 
buffaloes, and all the heavy game except elephants 
and giraffes; upon the latter I have never happened 
to try it. Weighing only eight pounds and three- 
quarters it is most convenient to carry on horseback, 
and although I have had frequent accidents through my 
horse falling in full gallop, the stock is perfectly sound 
to this day. The best proof of thorough honest work¬ 
manship is, that in many years of hard work it has 
never been out of order, nor has it ever been in a gun- 
maker s hands. 

The operation of cutting the waterbuck into four 
quarters, and then stringing them on to a strip of its 
own hide, was quickly performed, and with Bicharn's 
assistance I slung it across my saddle, and led my 
horse, thus heavily laden, towards the path. After some 


CHAIN y.] 


THE TURKS' SALUTE. 


193 


difficulty in crossing muddy hollows and gullies in the 
otherwise dried marsh,we at length succeeded in finding 
the tracks of the party that had gone on ahead. 

We had been steering from Ellyria due east towards 
the high peak of " Gebel Lafeet," that rose exactly 
above one of the principal towns of Latooka. With 
this fine beacon now apparently just before us, we had 
no difficulty in finding our way. The country was 
now more open, and the ground sandy and interspersed 
with the hegleek trees, which gave it the appearance 
of a vast orchard of large pear trees. The " hegleek " 
is peculiarly rich in potash; so much so that the ashes 
of the burnt wood will blister the tongue. It bears a 
fruit about the size and shape of a date;—this is very 
sweet and aromatic in flavour, and is also so rich in 
potash that it is used as a substitute for soap. 

After an hours walk always on the tracks of the 
party, we saw a large Latooka town in the distance, 
and upon a nearer approach we discovered crowds of 
people collected under two enormous trees. Presently 
guns fired, the drums beat, and as we drew nearer we 
perceived the Turkish flags leading a crowd of about a 
hundred men, who approached us with the usual salutes, 
every man firing off ball cartridge as fast as he could 
reload. My men were already with this lot of raga¬ 
muffins, and this was the ivory or slave trading party 


VOL. i. 


o 


194 


TREACHEROUS WELCOME. 


[chap. V. 


that they had conspired to join. They were inarching 
towards me to honour me with a salute, which, upon 
close approach, ended by their holding their guns 
muzzle downwards, and firing them almost into my 
feet. I at once saw through their object in giving me 
this reception ;—they had already heard from the other 
party exaggerated accounts of presents that their leader 
had received, and they were jealous at the fact of my 
having established confidence with a party opposed to 
them. The vakeel of Chenooda was the man who 
had from the first instigated my men to revolt and to 
join his party, and he at that moment had two of 
my deserters with him that had mutinied and joined 
him at Gondokoro. It had been agreed that the re¬ 
mainder of my men were to mutiny at this spot and 
to join him with my arms and ammunition. This 
was to be the stage for the outbreak. The apparent 
welcome was only to throw me off my guard. 

I was coldly polite, and begging them not to waste 
their powder, I went to the large tree that threw a 
beautiful shade, and we sat down, surrounded by a 
crowd of both natives and trader s people. Mahommed 
Her sent me immediately a fat ox for my people : not 
to be under any obligation I immediately gave him a 
double-barrelled gun. The ox was slaughtered, and 
the people preferring beef to antelope venison, I gave 


CHAP. V.] 


MAHOMMED TIED. 


195 


the flesh of the waterbuck to the Latooka porters be¬ 
longing to Ibrahim's party. Thus all teeth were busy. 
Ibrahim and his men occupied the shade of another 
enormous tree at about a hundred and fifty yards' 
distance. 

The town was Latome, one of the principal places in 
the Latooka country, and was strongly palisaded, like 
the town of Wakkala. I did not go through the 
entrance, but contented myself with resting under my 
tree and writing up the journal from my note-book. 
Before we had been there many hours the two parties 
of Ibrahim and Mahommed Her were engaged in a 
hot contention. Mahommed Her declared that no one 
had a right of way through that country, which be¬ 
longed to him according to the customs of the White 
Nile trade; that he would not permit the party of 
Ibrahim to proceed, and that, should they persist in 
their march, he would resist them by force. Words 
grew high ;—Ibrahim was not afraid of force, as he 
had a hundred and forty men against Mahommed Her's 
hundred and five;—insults and abuse were liberally 
exchanged, while the natives thronged around, enjoy¬ 
ing the fun, until at last Mahommed Her's temper 
becoming outrageous, he was seized by the throat by 
Sulieman, a powerful choush or sergeant of Ibrahim's 
party, and hurled away from the select society who 

o 2 


196 QUARRELLING AMONG THE TRADERS. [chap. y. 

claimed the right of road. Great confusion arose, and 
both parties prepared for a fight, which after the usual 
bluster died away to nothing. However, I noticed 
that my men most unmistakeably took the part of 
Mahommed Her against Ibrahim ; they belonging to 
his tribe. 

The evening arrived, and my vakeel, with his usual 
cunning, came to ask me " whether I intended to start 
to-morrow ? " He said there was excellent shooting in 
this neighbourhood, and that Ibrahim's camp not being 
more than five hours' march beyond, I could at any 
time join him, should I think proper. Many of my 
men were sullenly listening to my reply, which was, 
that we should start in company with Ibrahim. The 
men immediately turned their backs, and swaggered 
insolently to the town, muttering something that I 
could not distinctly understand. I gave orders directly, 
that no man should sleep in the town, but that all 
should be at their posts by the luggage under the tree 
that I occupied. At night several men were absent, 
and were with difficulty brought from the town by the 
vakeel. The whole of the night was passed by the 
rival parties quarrelling and fighting. At 5.30 on 
the following morning the drum of Ibrahim's party 
beat the call, and his men with great alacrity got their 
porters together and prepared to march. My vakeel 


CHAP. V.] 


THE LATOOKA MUTINY. 


197 


was not to be found ; my men were lying idly in the 
positions where they had slept; and not a man obeyed 
when I gave the order to prepare to start—except 
Richarn and Sali. I saw that the moment had ar¬ 
rived. Again I gave the order to the men, to get up 
and load the animals; . , . not a man would move, 
except three or four who slowly rose from the ground, 
and stood resting on their guns. In the meantime 
Richarn and Sali were bringing the camels and making 
them kneel by the luggage. The boy Saat was evi¬ 
dently expecting a row, and although engaged with 
the black women in packing, he kept his eyes constantly 
upon me. 

I now observed that Bellaal was standing very near 
me on my right, in advance of the men who had risen 
from the ground, and employed himself in eyeing me 
from head to foot with the most determined insolence. 
The fellow had his gun in his hand, and he was tele¬ 
graphing by looks with those who were standing near 
him, while not one of the others rose from the ground, 
although close to me. Pretending not to notice Bellaal, 
who was now as I had expected once more the ring¬ 
leader, for the third time I ordered the men to rise 
immediately, and to load the camels. Not a man 
moved, but the fellow Bellaal marched up to me, and 
looking me straight in the face dashed the butt-end of 


198 


SETTLE THE RINGLEADER. 


[chap. V. 


his gun in defiance on the ground, and led the mutiny. 
" Not a man shall go with you !—go where you like 
" with Ibrahim, but we won't follow you, nor move a 
" step farther. The men shall not load the camels; 
" you may employ the f niggers' to do it, but not us.". 

I looked at this mutinous rascal for a moment ; 
this was the burst of the conspiracy, and the threats 
and insolence that I had been forced to pass over 
for the sake of the expedition all rushed before me. 
" Lay down your gun!" I thundered, " and load 

the camels! "." I won't"—was his reply. 

" Then stop here!" I answered; at the same time lashing 
out as quick as lightning with my right hand upon 
his jaw. 

He rolled over in a heap, his gun flying some yards 
from his hand; and the late ringleader lay appa¬ 
rently insensible among the luggage, while several of 
his friends ran to him, and did the good Samaritan. 
Following up on the moment the advantage I had 
gained by establishing a panic, I seized my rifle and 
rushed into the midst of the wavering men, catching 
first one by the throat, and then another, and dragging 
them to the camels, which 1 insisted upon their imme¬ 
diately loading. All except three, who attended to the 
ruined ringleader, mechanically obeyed. Richarn and 
Sali both shouted to them to " hurry ;" and the vakeel 



CHAP. V.] 


STOP THE MUTINY. 


]99 


arriving at this moment and seeing how matters stood, 
himself assisted, and urged the men to obey. 

Ibrahims party had started. The animals were soon 
loaded, and leaving the vakeel to take them in charge, 
we cantered on to overtake Ibrahim, having crushed 
the mutiny, and given such an example, that in the 
event of future conspiracies my men would find it 
difficult to obtain a ringleader. So ended the famous 
conspiracy that had been reported to me by both Saat 
and Richarn before we left Gondokoro ;—and so much 
for the threat of " firing simultaneously at me and 
deserting my wife in the jungle." In those savage 
countries success frequently depends upon one par¬ 
ticular moment; you may lose or win according to 
your action at that critical instant. We congratulated 
ourselves upon the termination of this affair, which I 
trusted would be the last of the mutinies. 

The country was now lovely ; we were at the base 
of the mountain " Lafeet," which rose abruptly on our 
left to the height of about 3,000 feet, the highest peak 
of the eastern chain that formed the broad valley of 
Latooka. The course of the valley was from S.E. to 
N.W.; about forty miles long by eighteen miles wide ; 
the flat bottom was diversified by woods, thick jungles, 
open plains, and the ever-present hegleek trees, which in 
some places gave the appearance of forest. The south 


200 


1 PURSUE A FUGITIVE\ 


[chap. V. 


side of the valley was bounded by a high range of 
mountains, rising to six or seven thousand feet above 
the general level of Latooka, while the extreme end 
was almost blocked by a noble but isolated mountain 
of about 5,000 feet. 

Our path being at the foot of the Lafeet chain, the 
ground was sandy but firm, being composed of disin¬ 
tegrated portions of the granite rocks that had washed 
down from the mountains, and we rode quickly along 
a natural road, equal to the best highway in England. 

We soon overtook Ibrahim and his party, and re¬ 
counted the affair of mutiny. 

The long string of porters now closed together as 
we were approaching a rebel town of Latooka that 
was hostile to both Turks and others. Suddenly one 
of the native porters threw down his load and bolted 
over the open ground towards the village at full speed. 
The fellow bounded along like an antelope, and was 
immediately pursued by half-a-dozen Turks. " Shoot 
him ! shoot him ! knock him over! " was shouted from 
the main body; and twenty guns were immediately 
pointed at the fugitive, who distanced his pursuers as 
a horse would outstrip an ox. 

To save the man I gave chase on "Filfil," putting 
myself in the line between him and the guns, to 
prevent them from firing. After a short course I 


chap, v.] AND INTERPOSE ON HIS BEHALF. 


201 


overtook him, but lie still continued running, and 
upon my closing with liim he threw his spear on the 
ground, but still ran. Not being able to speak his 
language I made signs that he should hold the mane 
of my horse, and that no one should hurt him. He at 
once clutched with both hands the horse's mane, and 
pushed himself almost under my knee in his efforts to 
keep close to me for protection. The Turks arrived 
breathless, and the native appeared as terrified as a 
hare at the moment it is seized by the greyhound. 
" Shoot him ! " they one and all shouted. " Well done, 
'Hawaga'! (Sir) you caught him beautifully! We 
never could have caught him without your horse. 
Pull him out! we'll shoot him as an example to the 
others! " I explained that he was my man, and 
belonged to me as I had caught him, therefore I could 
not allow him to be shot. " Then we'll give him 500 
with the coorbatch ! " they cried. Even this generous 
offer I declined, and I insisted that he should accom¬ 
pany me direct to Ibrahim, into whose hands 1 should 
myself deliver him. Accordingly, still clutching to my 
horse's mane, the captive followed and was received 
by the main body on arrival with shouts of derision. 

I told Ibrahim that he must forgive him this time, 
if he promised to carry his load to the end of the 
journey. He immediately picked up his heavy burden 


202 


HELD IN SOME ESTIMATION 


[chap. V. 


as though it were a feather, and balancing it on his 
head, stepped along in the line of porters as though 
nothing had occurred. 

Trifling as this incident may appear, it was of much 
service to me, as it served as an introduction to both 
Turks and natives. I heard the former conversing 
together, praising the speed of the horse, and congra¬ 
tulating themselves on the impossibility of the porters 
escaping now that they had seen how quickly they 
could be overtaken. Another remarked, " Wah Illahi, 
I should not like to chase a nigger so closely while 
a lance was in his hand. I expected he would turn 
sharp round and throw it through the HawagaT Thus 
I was now looked upon by the Turks as an ally , and 
at the same time I was regarded by the Latookas as 
their friend for having saved their man; and they 
grinned their approbation in the most unmistakeable 
manner as I rode past their line, shouting, " Morrte, 
morrte, mattat! " (welcome, welcome, chief!) 

On arriving at a large town, named Kattaga, we 
rested under the shade of an immense tamarind tree. 
There was no sign of my men and animals, and I 
began to think that something had gone wrong. For 
two hours we waited for their arrival. Ascending 
some rising ground, I at length observed my caravan 
approaching in the distance, and every one of my 



CHAP. V.] 


DESERTION OF MEN. 


203 


men, except Richarn, mounted upon my donkeys, 
although the poor animals were already carrying loads 
of 150 lbs. each. Upon observing me, the dismount 
was sudden and general. On their arrival I found 
that three of the men had deserted, including " Bel- 
laal," and had joined the party of Mahommed Her, 
taking with them my guns and ammunition. Two 
had previously joined that party; thus five of my 
men were now engaged by those slave-hunters, and 
I little doubted that my remaining men would abscond 
likewise. 

On the arrival of my vakeel he told me, in face of 
the men, that so many had deserted, and that the 
others had refused to assist him in taking the guns 
from them; thus my arms and ammunition had been 
forcibly stolen. I abused both the vakeel and the 
men most thoroughly, and as for the mutineers who 
have joined the slave-hunters, "Inshallah, the vultures 
shall pick their bones ! " 

This charitable wish—-which, I believe, I expressed 
with intense hatred—was never forgotten either by 
my own men or by the Turks. Believing firmly in 
the evil eye, their superstitious fears were immediately 
excited. 

Continuing the march along the same style of 
country we shortly came in view of Tarrangolle, the 


204 


THE NATIVES OF LATOOKA. 


[chap. V. 


chief town of Latooka, at which point was the station 
of Ibrahim. We had marched thirteen miles from 
Latome, the station of Mahommed Her, at which 
place my men had deserted, and we were now 101 
miles from Gondokoro by dead reckoning. 

There were some superb trees situated close to the 
town, under which we camped until the natives could 
prepare a hut for our reception. Crowds of people 
now surrounded us, amazed at the two great objects of 
interest—the camels, and a white woman. They did 
not think me very peculiar, as I was nearly as brown 
as an Arab. 

The Latookas are the finest savages I have ever 
seen. I measured a number of them as they happened 
to enter my tent, and allowing two inches for the 
thickness of their felt helmets, the average height was 
5 ft. 11ins. Not only are they tall, but they possess 
a wonderful muscular development, having beautifully 
proportioned legs and arms ; and although extremely 
powerful, they are never fleshy or corpulent. The 
formation of head and general physiognomy is totally 
different from all other tribes that I have met with 
in the neighbourhood of the White Nile. They have 
high foreheads, large eyes, rather high cheek-bones, 
mouths not very large, well-shaped, and the lips 
rather full. They all have a remarkably pleasing 


CHAP. V.] 


THEIR PROBABLE ORIGIN. 


205 


cast of countenance, and are a great contrast to the 
other tribes in civility of manner. Altogether their 
appearance denotes a Galla origin, and it is most 
probable that, at some former period, an invasion by 
the Gallas of this country originated the settlement of 
the Latookas. 



LATOOKA BLACKSMITHS. 


One of the principal channels, if not the main 
stream of the river Sobat, is only four days' march 
or fifty miles east of Latooka, and is known to the 














206 TRIBES HARD TO DISTINGUISH , [chaf. v. 

natives as the Choi. The east bank of that stream is 
occupied by the Gallas, who have frequently invaded 
the Latooka country. There is an interesting circum¬ 
stance connected with these invasions, that the Gallas 
were invariably mounted upon mules. Neither horse, 
camel, nor other beast of burden is known to any of 
the White Nile tribes, therefore the existence of mules 
on the east bank of the Choi is a distinguishing feature. 
Both Abyssinia and the Galla being renowned for 
a fine breed of mules affords good circumstantial 
evidence that the Akkara tribe of the Choi are true 
Gallas, and that the Latookas may be derived from 
a similar origin by settlements after conquest. 

The great chief of the Latookas, " Moy," assured me 
that his people could not withstand the cavalry of the 
Akkara, although they were superior to all other tribes 
on foot. 

I have heard the traders of Khartoum pretend that 
they can distinguish the tribes of the White Nile by 
their individual type. I must confess my inability on 
this point. In vain I have attempted to trace an 
actual difference. To me the only distinguishing mark 
between the tribes bordering the White River is a 
peculiarity in either dressing the hair, or in ornament. 
The difference of general appearance caused by a 
variety of hairdressing is most perplexing, and is apt 


CHAP. V.] 


TARRANGOLLF. 


20 7 


to mislead a traveller who is only a superficial 
observer; but from the commencement of the negro 
tribes in N. lat. 12° to Ellyria in lat. 4° 30' I have 
found no specific difference in the people. The actual 
change takes place suddenly on arrival in Latooka, 
and this is accounted for by an admixture with the 
Gallas. 

The Latookas are a fine, frank, and warlike race. 
Far from being the morose set of savages that I had 
hitherto seen, they were excessively merry, and always 
ready for either a laugh or a fight. The town of 
Tarrangolle contained about three thousand houses, 
and was not only surrounded by iron-wood palisades, 
but every house was individually fortified by a little 
stockaded courtyard. The cattle were kept in large 
kraals in various parts of the town, and were most 
carefully attended to, fires being lit every night to 
protect them from flies ; and high platforms, in three 
tiers, were erected in many places, upon which sentinels 
watched both day and night to give the alarm in case 
of danger. The cattle are the wealth of the country, 
and so rich are the Latookas in oxen, that ten or 
twelve thousand head are housed in every large town; 
thus the natives are ever on the watch, fearing the 
attacks of the adjacent tribes. 

The houses of the Latookas are generally bell-shaped, 


208 


NATIVE ARCHITECTURE. 


[chap. y. 


while others are precisely like huge candle-extin¬ 
guishers, about twenty-five feet high. The roofs are 
neatly thatched, at an angle of about 75°, resting upon 
a circular wall about four feet high; thus the roof 
forms a cap descending to within two feet and a half 
of the ground. The doorway is only two feet and two 
inches high, thus an entrance must be effected upon 
all-fours. The interior is remarkably clean, but dark, 
as the architects have no idea of windows. It is 
a curious fact that the circular form of hut is the 
only style of architecture adopted among all the 
tribes of Central Africa, and also among the Arabs 
of Upper Egypt; and that, although these differ more 
or less in the form of the roof, no tribe has ever yet 
sufficiently advanced to construct a window. The 
town of Tarrangolle is arranged with several entrances, 
in the shape of low archways through the palisades; 
these are closed at night by large branches of the 
hooked thorn of the kittur bush (a species of mimosa). 
The main street is broad, but all others are studiously 
arranged to admit of only one cow, in single file, 
between high stockades; thus, in the event of an 
attack, these narrow passages could be easily defended, 
and it would be impossible to drive off their vast 
herds of cattle unless by the main street. The large 
cattle kraals are accordingly arranged in various 


chap, v.-] * EXHUMATION OF THE DEAD. 201) 

quarters in connexion with the great road, and the 
entrance of each kraal is a small archway in the 
strong iron-wood fence sufficiently wide to admit one 
ox at a time. Suspended from the arch is a bell, 
formed of the shell of the Dolape palm-nut, against 
which every animal must strike either its horns or 
back, on entrance. Every tinkle of the bell announces 
the passage of an ox into the kraal, and they are 
thus counted every evening when brought home from 
pasture. 

I had noticed, during the march from Latome, that 
the vicinity of every town was announced by heaps of 
human remains. Bones and skulls formed a Golgotha 
within a quarter of a mile of every village. Some of 
these were in earthemware pots, generally broken; 
others lay strewn here and there; while a heap in 
the centre showed that some form had originally been 
observed in their disposition. This was explained by 
an extraordinary custom most rigidly observed by the 
Latookas. Should a man be killed in battle the body 
is allowed to remain where it fell, and is devoured by 
the vultures and hyenas; but should he die a natural 
death, he or she is buried in a shallow grave within 
a few feet of his own door, in the little courtyard that 
surrounds each dwelling. Funeral dances are then 
kept up in memory of the dead for several weeks; at 

VOL. i. p 


210 


COIFFURE OF WOMEN. 


[chap. y. 


the expiration of which time, the body being suffi¬ 
ciently decomposed, is exhumed. The bones are 
cleaned, and are deposited in an earthenware jar, 
and carried to a spot near the town which is 
regarded as the cemetery. I observed that they were 
not particular in regarding the spot as sacred, as 
signs of nuisances were present even upon the bones, 
that in civilized countries would have been regarded 
as an insult. 

There is little difficulty in describing the toilette of 
the natives—that of the men being simplified by the 
sole covering of the head* the body being entirely nude. 
It is curious to observe among these wild savages the 
consummate vanity displayed in their head-dresses. 
Every tribe has a distinct and unchanging fashion 
for dressing the hair; and so elaborate is the coiffure 
that hair-dressing is reduced to a science. European 
ladies would be startled at the fact, that to perfect the 
coiffure of a man requires a period of from eight to 
ten years ! However tedious the operation, the result 
is extraordinary. The Latookas wear most exquisite 
helmets, all of which are formed of their own hair; 
and are, of course, fixtures.. At first sight it appears 
incredible, but a minute examination shows the won¬ 
derful perseverance. of years in producing what must 
be highly inconvenient. The thick, crisp wool is 


CHAP. V.] 


HAIR HELMETS OF LATOOKA. 


211 


woven with fine twine, formed from the bark of a 
tree, until it presents a thick net-work of felt. As 
the hair grows through this matted substance it is 
subjected to the same process* until, in the course of 
years, a compact substance is formed like a strong 
felt, about an inch and a half thick, that has been 
trained into the shape of a helmet. A strong rim, 
of about two inches deep* is formed by sewing it 
together with thread • and the front part of the 
helmet is protected by a piece of polished copper ; 
while a piece of the same metal, shaped like the half 4 
of a bishop's mitre and about a foot in length, forms 
the crest. The framework of the helmet being at 
length completed, it must be perfected by an arrange¬ 
ment of beads, should the owner of the head be suffi¬ 
ciently rich to indulge in the coveted distinction. 
The beads most in fashion are the red and the blue 
porcelain, about the size of small peas. These are 
sewn on the surface of the felt, and so beautifully 
arranged in sections of blue and red that the entire 
helmet appears to be formed of beads ; and the hand¬ 
some crest of polished copper, surmounted by ostrich- 
plumes, gives a most dignified and martial appear¬ 
ance to this elaborate head-dress. No helmet is sup¬ 
posed to be complete without a row of cowrie-shells 
stitched around the rim so as to form a solid edge. 


212 


FIGHTING BRACELETS. 


[chap. V 


The Latookas have neither bows nor arrows, their 
weapons consisting of the lance, a powerful iron-headed 
mace, a long-bladed knife or sword, and an ugly iron 
bracelet, armed with knife-blades about four inches 



COMMORO RUNNING TO THE FIGHT. 


long by half an inch broad : the latter is used to 
strike with if disarmed, and to tear with when wrestling 
with an enemy. Their shields are either of buffaloes' 
hide or of giraffes', the latter being highly prized as 












CHAP. V.] 


THE LATOOKA WOMEN. 


213 


excessively tough although light, and thus combining 
the two requisite qualities of a good shield ; they are 
usually about four feet six inches long by two feet wide, 
and are the largest I have seen. Altogether, everything 
in Latooka looks like fighting. 

Although the men devote so much attention to 
their head-dress, the women are extremely simple. It 
is a curious fact, that while the men are remarkably 
handsome, the women are exceedingly plain;—they 
are immense creatures, few being under five feet seven 
inches in height with prodigious limbs. Their superior 
strength to that of other tribes may be seen in the 
size of their water jars, which are nearly double as 
large as any I have seen elsewhere, containing 
about ten gallons; in these they fetch water from 
the stream about a mile distant from the town. 
They wear exceedingly long tails, precisely like those 
of horses, but made of fine twine and rubbed with red 
ochre and grease. These are very convenient when 
they creep into their huts on hands and knees. In 
addition to the tails, they wear a large flap of tanned 
leather in front. Should I ever visit that country 
again, I should take a great number of " Freemasons' 
aprons for the women ; these would be highly prized, 
and would create a perfect furor . The only really 
pretty women that I saw in Latooka were Bokke, the 


214 


THE CHIEFS INTRODUCTION. 


[chap. v. 


wife of the chief, and her daughter; they were fac¬ 
similes of each other, the latter having the advantage 
of being the second edition. Both women and men 
were extremely eager for beads of all kinds, the most 
valuable being the red and blue porcelain for helmets, 
and the large opalescent bead, the size of a child's 
marble. 

The day after my arrival in Latooka I was accom¬ 
modated by the chief with a hut in a neat court-yard 
beautifully clean and cemented with clay, ashes, and 
cow-dung. Not patronising the architectural advan¬ 
tages of a doorway of two feet high, I pitched my 
large tent in the yard and stowed all my baggage in 
the hut. All being arranged, I had a large Persian 
carpet spread ripon the ground, and received the chief 
of Latooka in state, He was introduced by Ibrahim, 
and I had the advantage of his interpreter. I com¬ 
menced the conversation by ordering a present to be 
laid on the carpet of several necklaces of valuable 
beads, copper bars, and coloured cotton handkerchiefs. 
It was most amusing to witness his delight at a string 
of fifty little " berrets" (opal beads the size of marbles) 
which I had brought into the country for the first time, 
and were accordingly extremely valuable. No sooner 
had he surveyed. them with undisguised delight than 
he requested me to give him another string of opals 


CHAP. V.] 


" MOY " AND HIS LADIES. 


215 


for liis wife, or she would be in a bad humour ;—ac¬ 
cordingly a present for the lady was added to the 
already large pile of beads that lay heaped upon the 
carpet before him. After surveying his treasures with 
pride, he heaved a deep sigh, and turning to the in¬ 
terpreter he said, " what a row there will be in the 
" famity when my other wives see Bokke (his head wife) 
" dressed up with this finery. Tell the 4 Mattat 9 that 
" unless he gives necklaces for each of my other wives, 
" they will fight!" Accordingly I asked him the number 
of the ladies that made him anxious. He deliberately 
began to count upon his fingers, and having exhausted 
the digits of one hand, I compromised immediately, 
begging him not to go through the whole of his estab¬ 
lishment, and presented him with about three pounds 
of various beads, to be divided among them. He ap¬ 
peared highly delighted, and declared his intention of 
sending all his wives to pay Mrs. Baker a visit. This 
was an awful visitation, as each wife would expect a 
present for herself, and would assuredly have either a 
child or a friend for whom she would beg an addition. 
I therefore told him that the heat was so great that 
we could not bear too many in the tent, but that if 
Bokke, his favourite, would appear, we should be glad 
to see her. Accordingly he departed, and shortly we 
were honoured by a visit. Bokke and her daughter 


2 1 6 BOKKE AND BA UGHTER. [chap. y. 

were announced, and a prettier pair of savages I never 
saw. They were very clean ;—their hair was worn 
short, like all the women of the country, and plastered 
with red ochre and fat, so as to look like vermilion; 
their faces were slightly tattooed on the cheeks and 
temples; and they sat down on the many-coloured 
carpet with great surprise, and stared at the first white 
man and woman they had ever seen. We gave them 



BOKK.il—WIFE OF MOY, CHIEF OF LATOOKA. 


both a number of necklaces of red and blue beads, and 
I secured her portrait in my sketch book, obtaining a 
very correct likeness. She told us that Mahommed 








chap, v.] BOKKE PROPOSES TO IMPROVE MRS BAKER . 217 

Her s men were very bad people ; that they had burnt 
and plundered one of her villages * and that one of the 
Latookas who had been wounded in the fight by a 
bullet had just died, and they were to dance for him 
to-morrow, if we would like to attend. She asked 
many questions; how many wives I had? and was 
astonished to hear that I was contented with one. 
This seemed to amuse her immensely, and she laughed 
heartily with her daughter at the idea. She said that 
my wife would be much improved if she would extract 
her four front teeth from the lower jaw, and wear the 
red ointment on her hair, according to the fashion of 
the country ; she also proposed that she should pierce 
her under lip, and wear the long pointed polished 
crystal, about the size of a drawing pencil, that is the _ 
a thingin the Latooka country. No woman among 
the tribe who has any pretensions to be a " swell " 
would be without this highly prized ornament, and one 
of my thermometers having come to an end I broke 
the tube into three pieces, and they were considered as 
presents of the highest value, to be worn through the 
perforated under lip. Lest the piece should slip through 
the hole in the lip, a kind of rivet is formed by twine 
bound round the inner extremity, and this protruding 
into the space left by the extraction of the four front 
teeth of. the lower jaw, entices the tongue to act upon 


218 EXTRACTION OF THE FRONT TEETH [chap, v 

the extremity, which gives it a wriggling motion, in¬ 
describably ludicrous during conversation. 

I cannot understand for what reason all the White 
Nile tribes extract the four front teeth of the lower 
jaw. Were the meat of the country tender, the loss 
of teeth might be a trifle ; but I have usually found 
that even a good set of grinders are sometimes puzzled 
to go through the operation needful to a Latooka beef¬ 
steak. It is difficult to explain real beauty; a defect in 
one country is a desideratum in another; scars upon the 
face are, in Europe, a blemish; but here and in the Arab 
countries no beauty can be perfect until the cheeks 
or temples have been gashed. The Arabs make three 
gashes upon each cheek, and rub the wounds with 
salt and a kind of porridge (asida) to produce proud 
flesh; thus every female slave, captured by the slave- 
hunters, is marked to prove her identity, and to 
improve her charms. Each tribe has its peculiar 
fashion as to the position and form of the cicatrice. 

The Latookas gash the temples and cheeks of their 
women, but do not raise the scar above the surface, 
as is the custom of the Arabs. 

Polygamy is, of course, the general custom; the 
number of a man's wives depending entirely upon his 
wealth, precisely as would the number of his horses in 
England. There is no such thing as love in these 


CHAP. V.] 


THE VALUE OF WIVES. 


219 


countries, the feeling is not understood, nor does it 
exist in the shape in which we understand it. Every¬ 
thing is practical, without a particle of romance. 
Women are so far appreciated as they are valuable 
animals. They grind the corn, fetch the water, gather 
firewood, cement the floors, cook the food, and pro¬ 
pagate the race; but they are mere servants, and as 
such are valuable. The price of a good-looking, strong 
young wife, who could carry a heavy jar of water, 
would be ten cows; thus a man, rich in cattle, would 
be rich in domestic bliss, as he could command a multi¬ 
plicity of wives. However delightful may be a family 
of daughters in England, they nevertheless are costly 
treasures; but in Latooka, and throughout savage 
lands, they are exceedingly profitable* The simple 
rule of proportion will suggest that if one daughter is 
worth ten cows, ten daughters must be worth a hun¬ 
dred, therefore a large family is the source of wealth ; 
the girls produce the cows, and the boys milk them. 
All being perfectly naked (I mean the girls and the 
boys), there is no expense, and the children act as 
herdsmen to the flocks as in the patriarchal times. A 
multiplicity of wives thus increases wealth by the 
increase of family, I am afraid this practical state 
of affairs will be a strong barrier to missionary 
enterprise. 


220 COWS OF MORE VALUE THAN WOMEN. [chap. v. 

A savage holds to his cows, and his women, but 
especially to his cows. In a razzia fight he will seldom 
stand for the sake of his wives, but when he does fight 
it is to save his cattle. I now had a vivid exempli¬ 
fication of this theory. 

One day, at about 3 p. m., the men of Ibrahim started 
upon some mysterious errand, but returned equally 
mysterious at about midnight. On the following 
morning I heard that they had intended to attack 
some place upon the mountains, but they had heard 
that it was too powerful; and as " discretion is the 
better part of valour/' they had returned. 

On the day following I heard that there had been 
some disaster, and that the whole of Mahommed Her s 
party had been massacred. The natives seemed very 
excited, and messenger succeeded messenger, all con¬ 
firming the account that Mohammed Her had attacked 
a village on the mountains, the same that Ibrahim had 
intended to attack, and that the natives had exter¬ 
minated their whole party. 

On the following morning I sent ten of my men 
with a party of Ibrahims to Latome to make inquiries. 
They returned on the following afternoon, bringing 
with them two wounded men. 

It appeared that Mahommed Her had ordered his 
party of 110 armed men, in addition to 300 natives, 


chap, v.] DESTRUCTION OF MAEOMMED HERN PEOPLE. 221 

to make a razzia upon a certain village among the 
mountains for slaves and cattle. They had succeeded 
in burning a village, and in capturing a great number 
of slaves. Having descended the pass, a native gave 
them the route that would lead to the capture of a large 
herd of cattle that they had not yet discovered. They 
once more ascended the mountain by a different path, 
and arriving at the kraal, they commenced driving off 
the vast herd of cattle. The Latookas, who had not 
fought while their wives and children were being 
carried into slavery, now fronted bravely against the 
muskets to defend their herds, and charging the Turks, 
they drove them down the pass. 

It was in vain that they fought; every bullet aimed 
at a Latooka struck a rock, behind which the enemy 
was hidden. Rocks, stones, and lances were hurled at 
them from all sides and from above; they were forced 
to retreat. The retreat ended in a panic and preci¬ 
pitate flight. Hemmed in on all sides, amidst a shower 
of lances and stones thrown from the mountain above, 
the Turks fled pele-mele down the rocky and preci¬ 
pitous ravines. Mistaking their route, they came to 
a precipice from which there was no retreat. The 
screaming and yelling savages closed round them. 
Fighting was useless ; the natives, under cover of the 
numerous detached rocks, offered no mark for an aim ; 


222 


DEATH OF MY DESERTERS. 


[chap. y. 


while the crowd of armed savages thrust them forward 
with wild yells to the very verge of the great pre¬ 
cipice about five hundred feet below. Down they 
fell! hurled to utter destruction by the mass of La- 
tookas pressing onward ! A few fought to the last; 
but one and all were at length forced, by sheer pres¬ 
sure, over the edge of the cliff, and met a just reward 
for their atrocities. 

My men looked utterly cast down, and a feeling of 
horror pervaded the entire party. No quarter had 
been given by the Latookas; and upwards of 200 
natives, who had joined the slave-hunters in the 
attack, had also perished with their allies. Mahommed 
Her had not himself accompanied his people, both he 
and Bellaal, my late ringleader, having remained in 
camp ; the latter having, fortunately for him, been 
disabled, and placed liors de combat by the example 
I had made during the mutiny. My men were almost 
green with awe, when I asked them solemnly, " Where 
were the men who had deserted from me ? " Without 
answering a word they brought two of my guns and 
laid them at my feet. They were covered with clotted 
blood mixed with sand, which had hardened like 
cement over the locks and various portions of the 
barrels. My guns were all marked. As I looked 
at the numbers upon the stocks, I repeated aloud the 


CHAP. V.] MY PROPHECY REALIZED . 223 

names of the owners. " Are they all dead ?" I asked. 
"All dead/' the men replied. "Food for the vultures?" 
I asked. "None of the bodies can be recovered/' 
faltered my vakeel. "The two guns were brought 
from the spot by some natives who escaped, and who 
saw the men fall. They are all killed." " Better for 
them had they remained with me and done their 
duty. The hand of God is heavy/' I replied. My 
men slunk away abashed, leaving the gory witnesses 
of defeat and death upon the ground. I called Saat 
and ordered him to give the two guns to Bicharn to 
clean. 

Not only my own men but the whole of Ibrahim's 
party were of opinion that I had some mysterious con¬ 
nexion with the disaster that had befallen my muti¬ 
neers. All remembered the bitterness of my prophecy, 
" The vultures will pick their bones," and this terrible 
mishap having occurred so immediately afterwards 
took a strong hold upon their superstitious minds. As 
I passed through the camp the men would quietly ex¬ 
claim, "Wah Illahi Hawaga!" (My God! Master.) To 
which I simply replied, " Bobine fe!" (There is a 
God.) From that moment I observed an extraordinary 
change in the manner of both my people and those 
of Ibrahim, all of whom now paid iis the greatest 
respect. 


224 


APPREHENSIVE OF AN ATTACK. 


[chap. y. 


Unfortunately a great change had likewise taken 
place in the manner of the Latookas. The whole 
town was greatly excited, drums were beating and 
horns blowing in all quarters, every one rejoicing at 
the annihilation of Mahommed Her's party. The 
natives no longer respected the superior power of 
guns ; in a hand-to-hand fight they had proved their 
own superiority, and they had not the sense to distin¬ 
guish the difference between a struggle in a steep 
mountain pass and a battle on the open plain. Ibra¬ 
him was apprehensive of a general attack on his party 
by the Latookas. 

This was rather awkward, as it was necessary for 
him to return to Gondokoro for a large supply of 
ammunition which had been left there for want of 
porters to convey it, when he had started for the 
interior. To march to Gondokoro, and to guard the 
ammunition, would require a large force in the present 
disturbed state of the country; thus we should be 
a much-reduced party, which might induce the La¬ 
tookas to attack us after his departure. However, it 
was necessary that he should start. I accordingly 
lent him a couple of donkeys to convey his powder, 
in case he should not be able to procure porters. 

After the departure of Ibrahim, the force of his 
party, remaining at Tarrangolle, was reduced to 


chap, v.] THE TURKS INSULT THE WOMEN. 225 

thirty-five men, under the command of his lieutenant 
Suleiman. This was a weak detachment in the event 
of an attack, especially as they had no separate camp, 
but were living in the native town, the men quar¬ 
tered in detached huts, and accordingly at the mercy 
of the natives if surprised. The brutality of the Turks 
was so inseparable from their nature, that they con¬ 
tinually insulted the native women to such an extent 
that I felt sure they would provoke hostilities in the 
present warlike humour of the Latookas. The stream 
being nearly a mile distant, there was a difficulty in 
procuring water. The Turks being far too lazy to 
carry it for themselves, seized upon the water-jars 
when the women returned from the stream, and beat 
them severely upon their refusal to deliver them with¬ 
out payment. I found no difficulty, as I engaged a 
woman to bring a regular supply for a daily payment 
in beads. Much bartering was going on between the 
Turks and the natives for provisions, in which the 
latter were invariably cheated, and beaten if they 
complained. I felt sure that such conduct must end 
in disagreement, if not in actual fight, in the event of 
which I knew that I should be dragged into the affair, 
although perfectly innocent, and having nothing to 
do with the Turks. 

My quarters in the town were near an open quack 


VOL. i. 


Q 


226 


ILL CONDUCT OF THE TURKS . 


[chap. y. 


ranguiar space about eighty yards square, inclosed 
upon all sides, but having a narrow entrance to the 
main street. The Turks were scattered about in the 
neighbouring lanes, their time passed in drinking 
merissa, and quarrelling with the natives and with 
each other. 

The day after Ibrahim's departure, the Turks seized 
some jars of water by force from the women on their 
return from the stream. A row ensued, and ended 
by one of the women being shamefully maltreated; 
and a Latooka, who came to her assistance, was 
severely beaten. This I did not see, but it was 
reported to me. I called Suleiman, and told him 
that if such things were permitted it would entail 
a fight with the natives, dn which I should not allow 
my men to join; that I prohibited my men from 
taking anything from the Latookas without just pay¬ 
ment ; thus, should a fight be caused by the conduct 
of his people, they must get out of it as they best 
could. 

A bad feeling already existed between the natives 
and his people, owing to the defeat of the party of 
Mahommed Her. Much good management was re¬ 
quired to avoid a collision, and the reverse was certain 
to cause an outbreak. 

Shortly before dusk the women were again assaulted 


CHAP. V.] 


WELL DONE, BOKKE! 


227 


on their return with water from the stream. One of 
Ibrahim's soldiers threatened a powerful-looking Ama¬ 
zon with his stick because she refused to deliver up 
her jar of water that she had carried about a mile for 
her own requirements. Upon seeing this my pretty 
friend, Bokke, the chiefs wife, seized the soldier by 
the throat, wrested the stick from him, while another 
woman disarmed him of his gun. Other women then 
sat upon him, and gave him a most ignominious 
shaking; while some gathered up mud from the 
gutter and poured it down the barrel of his gun 
until they effectually choked it; not content with 
this, they plastered large masses of mud over the 
locks and trigger. 

I looked on with enjoyment at the thorough dis¬ 
comfiture of the Turk. The news quickly spread, 
and in revenge for his disgrace his comrades severely 
beat some women at some distance from the camp. 
I heard screams, and shouts, and a confused noise; 
and upon my arrival outside the town, I saw large 
numbers of natives running from all quarters, and 
collecting together with lances and shields. I felt 
sure that we were to be involved in a general out¬ 
break. However, the Turks beat the drum, and col¬ 
lected their men, so that in a few minutes no straggler 
was in the town. 


228 RESULTS OF THE TURKS 5 MISCONDUCT. [chap. y. 

It was remarkably unpleasant to be dragged into 
a row by the conduct of these brutal traders, with 
whom I had nothing in common, and who, should 
a fight actually occur, would be certain to behave as 
cowards. The Latookas would make no distinction 
between me and them, in the event of an attack, as 
they would naturally class all strangers and new 
comers with the hated Turks. 

It was about 5 p.m. one hour before sunset. The 
woman who usually brought us water delivered her jar, 
but disappeared immediately after without sweeping 
the courtyard as was her custom. Her children who 
usually played in this enclosure had vanished. On 
searching her hut, which was in one corner of the yard, 
no one was to be found, and even the grinding-stone 
was gone. Suspecting that something was in the wind, 
I sent Karka and Gaddum Her, the two black servants, 
to search in various huts in the neighbourhood to 
observe if the owners were present, and whether the 
women were in their houses. Not a woman could be 
found. Neither woman nor child remained in the 
large town of Tarrangolle. There was an extraordinary 
stillness where usually all was noise and chattering. 
All the women and children had been removed to the 
mountains about two miles distant, and this so quickly 
and noiselessly that it appeared incredible. 


CHAP. V.] 


INTERVIEW WITH COMMORO. 


229 


I immediately sent to the house of the chief, and 
requested his attendance. There were two chiefs, 
brothers; Moy was the greater in point of rank, 
but his brother, Commoro, had more actual autho¬ 
rity with the people. I was glad that the latter 
appeared. 

I sent to request an interpreter from the Turks, and 
upon his arrival I asked Commoro why the women 
and children had been removed ? He replied, " That 
the Turks were so brutal that he could not pre¬ 
vail upon his people to endure it any longer; their 
women were robbed and beaten, and they were all so 
ill-treated, that he, as their chief, had no longer any 
control over them; and that the odium of having 
introduced the Turks to Latooka was thrown upon 
him." I asked him whether any of my men had 
misbehaved. I explained that I should flog any one 
of my men who should steal the merest trifle from 
his people, or insult any women. All my men were 
in dark-brown uniforms. He said, " That none of the 
men with the brown clothes had been complained of, 
but that his people had taken a dislike to all strangers, 
owinsf to the conduct of the Turks, and that he could 
not answer for the consequences." There was a divi¬ 
sion among his own people, some wishing to fight and 
to serve the Turks as the Latookas had served the 


230 


AWKWARD POSITION,, 


[CHAF. V. 


party of Mahommed Her, and others yielding to his 
advice, and agreeing to remain quiet. 

I inquired whether the chief, Moy, intended peace 
or war? He said, " That Bokke, his wife, had made 
him very angry against the Turks by describing their 
conduct towards the women/ 7 

This was rather an unsatisfactory state of things. 
Commoro departed, frankly admitting that the natives 
were much excited and wished to attack, but that he 
would do his best with them. 

These rascally traders set every country in a blaze 
by their brutal conduct, and rendered exploring not 
only most dangerous but next to impossible, without 
an exceedingly powerful force. 

The sun set; and, as usual in tropical climates, 
darkness set in within half an hour. Not a woman 
had returned to the town, nor was the voice of a 
man to be heard. The natives had entirely forsaken 
the portion of the town that both I and the Turks 
occupied. 

The night was perfectly calm, and the stars shone 
so brightly, that I took an observation for the lati¬ 
tude—4° 30'. 

There was a cleath-like stillness in the air. Even 
the Turks, who were usually uproarious, were per¬ 
fectly quiet; and although my men made no remark, 


CHAP. V.] 


THE LATOOKA WAR SIGNAL. 


231 


it was plain that we were all occupied by the same 
thoughts, and that an attack was expected. 

It was about 9 o'clock, and the stillness had become 
almost painful. There was no cry of a bird ; not even 
the howl of a hyena : the camels were sleeping; but 
every man was wide awake, and the sentries well on 
the alert. We were almost listening at the super¬ 
natural stillness, if I may so describe the perfect calm, 
when, suddenly, every one startled at the deep and 
solemn boom of the great war-drum, or nogara! Three 
distinct beats, at slow intervals, rang through the 
apparently deserted town, and echoed loudly from the 
neighbouring mountain. It was the signal! A few 
minutes elapsed, and like a distant echo from the 
north the three mournful tones again distinctly 
sounded. Was it an echo ? Impossible. Now from 
the south, far distant, but unmistakeable, the same 
three regular beats came booming through the still 
night air. Again and again, from every quarter, 
spreading far and wide, the signal was responded ; 
and the whole country echoed those three solemn 
notes so full of warning. Once more the great nogara 
of Tarrangolle sounded the original alarm within a 
few hundred paces of our quarters. The whole country 
was wo. 

JL 

There was no doubt about the matter. The Turks 


232 


PREPARATIONS FOR DEFENCE. 


[chap. v. 


well knew those three notes were the war-signal of 
the Latookas. 

I immediately called Suleiman. It was necessary 
to act in unison. I ordered him to beat the drum 
loudly for about five minutes to answer the nogara. 
His men were all scattered in several small inclosures. 
I called them all out into the open quadrangle; in 
the centre of which I placed the baggage, and planted 
the English ensign in the middle, while the Turks 
fixed their flag within a few paces. Posting sentries 
at each corner of the square, I stationed patrols in 
the principal street. In the meantime Mrs. Baker 
had laid out upon a mat several hundred cartridges of 
buck-shot, powder-flasks, wadding, and opened several 
boxes of caps, all of which were neatly arranged for a 
reserve of ammunition ; while a long row of first-class 
double guns and rifles lay in readiness. The boy Saat 
was full of fight, and immediately strapped on his belt 
and cartouche-box, and took his stand among the men. 

I ordered the men, in the event of an attack, to 
immediately set fire to all the huts around the quad¬ 
rangle; in which case, the sudden rush of a large body, 
of men would fie impossible, and the huts being of 
straw, the-town would be quickly in a blaze. 

Everything was in order to resist an attack in five, 
minutes from the sounding of the nogara. 


.CHAP. V.] 


WE AWAIT THE ATTACK. 


233 


The patrols shortly reported that large bodies of 
men were collecting outside the town. The great 
nogara again beat, and was answered at intervals as 
before from the neighbouring villages; but the Turks' 
drum kept up an uninterrupted roll as a challenge 
whenever the nogara sounded. Instead of the intense 
stillness that had formerly been almost painful, a 
distinct hum of distant voices betokened the gathering 
of large bodies of men. However, we were well forti¬ 
fied; and the Latookas knew it. We occupied the 
very stronghold that they had themselves constructed 
for the defence of their town; and the square being 
surrounded with strong iron-wood palisades with only 
a narrow entrance, would be impregnable when held, 
as now, by fifty men well armed with guns against 
a mob whose best weapons were only lances. I sent 
men up the watchmen's stations; these were about 
twenty-five feet high ; and the night being clear, they 
could distinctly report the movements of a dark mass 
of natives that were ever increasing on the outside 
of the town at about two hundred yards' distance., 
The rattle of the Turks' drum repeatedly sounded in 
reply to the nogara, and the intended attack seemed- 
destined to relapse into a noisy but empty battle of 
the drums. 

A few hours passed in uncertainty, when, at about 


234 


PARLEY. 


[chap. V. 


midnight, the chief Oommoro came fearlessly to the 
patrol, and was admitted to the quadrangle. He 
seemed greatly struck with the preparations for 
defence, and explained that the nogara had been 
beaten without his orders, and accordingly the whole 
country had risen; but that he had explained to the 
people that I had no hostile intentions, and that all 
would be well if they only kept the peace. He said 
they certainly had intended to attack us, and were 
surprised that we were prepared, as proved by the 
immediate reply of the Turks' drum to their nogara. 
He assured us that he would not sleep that night, 
but would watch that nothing should happen. I 
assured him that we should also keep awake, but 
should the nogara sound once more I should give 
orders to my men to set fire to the town, as I should 
not allow the natives to make use of such threats with 
impunity. I agreed to use what little interest I had 
to keep the Turks in order, but that I must not be 
held responsible by the natives for their proceedings, 
as I was not of their country, neither had I anything 
to do with them. I explained, that upon Ibrahim's 
return from Gondokoro things might improve, as he 
was the captain of the Turks, and might be able to 
hold his men in command. Commoro departed, and 
at about 2 a.m. the dense crowds of armed men 


chap. V.] TOO " WIDE AWAKE? 235 

that had accumulated outside the town began to 
disperse. 

The morning broke and saw the men still under 
arms, but the excitement had passed. The women 
soon reappeared with their water-jars as usual, but 
on this occasion they were perfectly unmolested by 
the Turks, who, having passed the night in momentary 
expectation of an attack, were now upon their best 
behaviour. However, I heard them muttering among 
themselves, "Wait until Ibrahim returns with rein¬ 
forcements and ammunition, and w T e will pay the 
Latookas for last night." 

The town filled; and the Latookas behaved as 
though nothing out of the common had occurred; but 
when questioned, they coolly confessed that they had 
intended to surprise us, but that we were too " wide 
awake." It is extraordinary that these fellows are so 
stupid as to beat the drum or nogara before the attack, 
as it naturally gives the alarm, and renders a surprise 
impossible; nevertheless, the war-drum is always a 
preliminary step to hostilities. 

I now resolved to camp outside the town, so as not 
to be mixed up in any way with the Turks, whose 
presence was certain to create enmity. Accordingly 
I engaged a number of natives to cut thorns, and to 
make a zareeba, or camp, about four hundred yards 


236 


CAMP AT TARRANGOLLE. 


[chap. V. 


from the main entrance of the town, on the road to 
the stream of water. In a few days it was com¬ 
pleted, and I constructed houses for my men, and two 
good huts for ourselves. Having a supply of garden 
seeds* I arranged a few beds, which I sowed with 
onions, cabbages, and raddislies. My camp was eighty 
yards long, and forty wide. My horses were picqueted 
in two corners, while the donkeys and camels occupied 
the opposite extremity. We now felt perfectly inde¬ 
pendent. 

I had masses of supplies, and I resolved to work 
round to the south-west whenever it might be 
possible, and thus to recover the route that I had 
originally proposed for my journey south. My present 
difficulty was the want of an interpreter. The Turks 
had several, and I hoped that on the return of Ibrahim 
from Gondokoro I might induce him to lend me a Bari 
lad for some consideration. For the present I was 
obliged to send to the Turks' camp and borrow an 
interpreter whenever I required one, which was both 
troublesome and expensive. 

Although I was willing to purchase all supplies with 
either beads or copper bracelets,I found it was impossible 
to procure meat. The natives refused to sell either cattle 
or goats. This was most tantalizing, as not less than 
10,000 head of cattle filed by my camp every morning 



CHAP. V.] 


SCARCITY IN VIEW OF PLENTY. 


23 7 


as they were driven from the town to pasturage. All 
this amount of beef paraded before me, and did not 
produce a steak. Milk was cheap and abundant ; 
fowls were scarce; corn was plentiful; vegetables 
were unknown; not even pumpkins were grown by 
the Latookas. 


Fortunately there was an abundance of small game 



drake's head. 


in the shape of wild ducks, pigeons, doves; and a great 
variety of birds such as herons, cranes, spoonbills, &c. 
Travellers should always take as large a supply of 
shot as possible. I had four hundred weight, and 
prodigious quantities of powder and caps, thus I. could 
at all times kill sufficient game for ourselves and 




238 


WILD DUCK SHOOTING. 


[chap. V. 


people. There were a series of small marshy pools 
scattered over the country near the stream that ran 
through the valley; these were the resort of numerous 
ducks, which afforded excellent sport. 

The town of Tarrangolle is situated at the foot 
of the mountain, about a mile from the stream, which 
is about eighty yards wide, but shallow. In the 
dry weather, water is obtained by wells dug in the 
sandy bed, but during the rains it is a simple torrent 
not exceeding three feet in depth. The bed being 
sandy, the numerous banks, left dry by the fluctuations 
of the stream, are most inviting spots for ducks; and 
it was only necessary to wait under a tree, on the 
rivers bank, to obtain thirty or forty shots in one 
morning as the ducks flew down the course of the 
stream. I found two varieties : the small brown duck 
with a grey head; and a magnificent variety, as large 
as the Muscovy, having a copper-and-blue coloured 
tinselled back and wings, with a white but speckled 
head and neck. This duck had a curious peculiarity 
in a fleshy protuberance on the beak about as large as 
a half-crown. This stands erect, like a cock's comb. 
Both this, and the smaller variety, were delicious eat¬ 
ing. There were two varieties of geese—the only two 
that I have ever seen on the White Nile—the common 
Egyptian grey goose, and a large black and white bird 


CHAP. V.] 


THE CRESTED CRANE, ETC. 


239 


with a crimson head and neck, and a red and yellow 
horny protuberance on the top of the head. This 
variety has a sharp spur upon the wing an inch long, 
and exceedingly powerful; it is used as a weapon of 
defence for striking, like the spurred wing of the 
plover. 

I frequently shot ten or twelve ducks, and as many 
cranes, before breakfast; among others the beautiful- 
crested crane, called by the Arabs " garranook." The 
black velvet head of this crane, surrounded by a golden 
crest, was a favourite ornament of the Latookas, and 
they were immediately arranged as crests for their 
helmets. The neighbourhood of my camp would have 
made a fortune for a feather-dealer; it was literally 
strewn with down and plumes. I was always attended 
every morning by a number of Latooka boys, who were 
eager sportsmen, and returned to camp daily laden 
with ducks and geese. No sooner did we arrive in 
camp that a number of boys volunteered to pluck the 
birds, which they did for the sake of the longest 
feathers, with which they immediately decked their 
woolly heads. Crowds of boys were to be seen with 
heads like cauliflowers, all dressed with the feathers 
of cranes and wild ducks. It appears to be accepted, 
both by the savage and civilized, that birds' feathers 
are specially intended for ornamenting the human head. 


240 


ADDA'S PROPOSAL 


[CHAr. v. 


It was fortunate that Nature had thus stocked La- 
tooka with game. It was impossible to procure any 
other meat; and not only were the ducks and geese 
to us what the quails were to the Israelites in the 
desert, hut they enabled me to make presents to the 
natives that assured them of our good will. 


Although the Latookas were far better than other 
tribes that I had met, they were sufficiently annoying • 



CRIMSON-HEADED SPUR-WINGED GOOSE. 


they gave me no credit for real good will, but they 
attributed my forbearance to weakness. On one oc¬ 
casion Adda, one of the chiefs, came to ask me to join 
him in attacking a village to procure molotes (iron 
hoes) ; he said, " Come along with me, bring your men 
and guns, and we will attack a village near here, and 







chap, v.] OBTUSENESS OF NATIVES . 241 

take their molotes and cattle ; you keep the cattle, and 
I will have the molotes/* I asked him whether the 
village was in an enemy's country ? " Oh no O' he 

replied, "it is close here; hut the people are rather 
rebellious, and it will do them good to kill a few, and 
to take their molotes. If you are afraid, never mind, 
I will ask the Turks to do it." Thus forbearance on 
my part was supposed to be caused from weakness, 
and it was difficult to persuade them that it originated 
in a feeling of justice. This Adda most coolly pro¬ 
posed that we should plunder one of his own villages 
that was rather too " liberal " in its views. Nothing 
is more heartbreaking than to be so thoroughly mis¬ 
understood, and the obtuseness of the savages was such, 
that I never could make them understand the existence 
of good principle;—their one idea was " power,"—force 
that could obtain all—the strong hand that could 
wrest from the weak. In disgust I frequently noted 
the feelings of the moment in my journal—a memo¬ 
randum from which I copy as illustrative of the 
time. " 1863, 10th April, Latooka: I wish the black 
sympathisers in England could see Africa's inmost 
heart as I do, much of their sympathy would subside. 
Human nature viewed in its crude state as pictured 
amongst African savages is quite on a level with that 
of the brute, and not to be compared with the noble 

VOL. T. R 


242 


DEGRADED STATE OF NATIVES. 


[chap. y. 


character of the dog. There is neither gratitude, pity, 
love, nor self-denial; no idea of duty; no religion; 
hut covetousness, ingratitude, selfishness and cruelty. 
All are thieves, idle, envious, and ready to plunder 
and enslave their weaker neighbours." 


CHAPTER VI. 


THE FUNERAL DANCE. 

Drums were beating, horns blowing, and people 
were seen all running in one direction ;—the cause was 
a funeral dance, and I joined the crowd, and soon found 
myself in the midst of the entertainment. The dancers 
were most grotesquely got up. About a dozen huge 
ostrich feathers adorned their helmets ; either leopard 
or the black and white monkey skins were suspended 
from their shoulders, and a leather tied round the waist 
covered a large iron bell which was strapped upon the 
loins of each dancer, like a woman's old-fashioned 
bustle : this they rung to the time of the dance by 
jerking their posteriors in the most absurd manner. A 
large crowd got up in this style created an indescribable 
hubbub, heightened by the blowing of horns and the 
beating of seven nogaras of various notes. Every dancer 
Wore an antelope's horn suspended round the neck, 

r 2 


244 


A FUNERAL DANCE. 


[chap. VI. 


which he blew occasionally in the height of his excite¬ 
ment. These instruments produced a sound partaking 
of the braying of a donkey and the screech of an owl. 
Crowds of men rushed round and round in a sort of 
" galop infernel," brandishing their lances and iron¬ 
headed maces, and keeping tolerably in line five or six 
deep, following the leader who headed them, dancing 
backwards. The women kept outside the line, dancing 
a slow stupid step, and screaming a wild and most 
inharmonious chaunt, while a long string of young 
girls and small children, their heads and necks rubbed 
with red ochre and grease, and prettily ornamented with 
strings of beads around their loins, kept a very good 
line, beating the time with their feet, and jingling the 
numerous iron rings which adorned their ankles to keep 
time with the drums. One woman attended upon the 
men, running through the crowd with a gourd full of 
wood-ashes, handfuls of which she showered over their 
heads, powdering them like millers; the object of the 
operation I could not understand. The " premiere 
danseuse" was immensely fat; she had passed the 
bloom of youth, but, " malgre " her unwieldy state, she 
kept up the pace to the last, quite unconscious of her 
general appearance, and absorbed with the excitement 
of the dance. 

These festivities were to be continued in honour of 



THE LATOOKA FUNERAL DANCE. 















































































































































- 

































¦4 
































































chap, vi.] PARI INTERPRETERS. 245 

the dead; and as many friends had recently been 
killed, music and dancing would be in fashion for some 
weeks. 

There was an excellent interpreter belonging to 
Ibrahim's party-—a Bari lad of about eighteen. This 
boy had been in their service for some years, and had 
learnt Arabic, which he spoke fluently, although with 
a peculiar accent, owing to the extraction of the four 
front teeth of the lower jaw, according to the general 
custom. It was of great importance to obtain the 
confidence of Loggo, as my success depended much 
upon information that I might obtain from the natives; 
therefore, whenever I sent for him to hold any conversa¬ 
tion with the people, I invariably gave him a little 
present at parting. Accordingly he obeyed any 
summons from me with great alacrity, knowing that 
the interview would terminate with a " backsheesh " 
(present). In this manner I succeeded in establishing 
confidence, and he would frequently come uncalled to 
my tent and converse upon all manner of subjects. 
The Latooka language is different to the Bari, and a 
second interpreter was necessary ; this was a sharp lad 
about the same age : thus the conversation was some¬ 
what tedious, the medium being Bari and Latooka. 

The chief Commoro (the "Lion") was one of the 
most clever and common-sense savages that I had seen 


246 


COMMORO , THE LION. 


[chap. Vi¬ 


lli these countries, and the tribe paid far more 
deference to his commands than to those of his brother, 
" Moy," although the latter was the superior in rank. 

One day I sent for Commoro after the usual funeral 
dance was completed, and, through my two young- 
interpreters, I had a long conversation with him on the 
customs of his country. I wished if possible to fathom 
the origin of the extraordinary custom of exhuming 
the body after burial, as I imagined that in this act 
some idea might be traced to a belief in the 
resurrection. 

Commoro was, like all his people, extremely tall. 
Upon entering my tent he took his seat upon the 
ground, the Latookas not using stools like the other 
White Nile tribes. I commenced the conversation by 
complimenting him on the perfection of his wives and 
daughters in the dance, and on his own agility in the 
performance ; and inquired for whom the ceremony 
had been performed. 

He replied, that it was for a man who had been 
recently killed, but no one of great importance, the 
same ceremony being observed for every person with¬ 
out distinction. 

I asked him why those slain in battle were allowed 
to remain unburied. He said, it had always been the 
custom, but that he could not explain it. 


chap , vi.] CONFERS A TION WITH COMMORO . 247 

" But/' I replied, " why should you disturb the bones 
of those whom you have already buried, and expose 
them on the outskirts of the town ? " 

" It was the custom of our forefathers," he answered, 
" therefore we continue to observe it" 

" Have you no belief in a future existence after 
death ? Is not some idea expressed in the act of 
exhuming the bones after the flesh is decayed ? " 

Commoro (Joy )—" Existence after death ! How can 
that be ? Can a dead man get out of his grave, unless 
we dig him out ? " 

" Do you think man is like a beast, that dies and is 
ended?" 

Commoro. —Certainly; an ox is stronger than a 
man ; but he dies, and his bones last longer ; they are 
bigger. A man s bones break quickly—he is weak." 

" Is not a man superior in sense to an ox ? Has he 
not a mind to direct his actions ? " 

Commoro .—" Some men are not so clever as an ox. 
Men must sow corn to obtain food, but the ox and 
wild animals can procure it without sowing." 

Do you not know that there is a spirit within 
you more than flesh ? Do you not dream and wander 
in thought to distant places in your sleep ? Never¬ 
theless, your body rests in one spot. How do you 
account for this ?" 


248 


" WHERE WILL THE SPIRIT LIVE I 


[chap. VI. 


Commoro , laughing—" Well, how do you account 
for it ? It is a thing I cannot understand ; it occurs to 
me every night." 

" The mind is independent of the body; — the 
actual body can be fettered, but the mind is uncon¬ 
trollable ; the body will die and will become dust, or 
be eaten by vultures, but the spirit will exist for ever." 

Commoro .—" Where will the spirit live ?" 

" Where does fire live ? Cannot you produce a 
fire * by rubbing two sticks together, yet you see not 
the fire in the wood. Has not that fire, that lies 
harmless and unseen in the sticks, the power to con¬ 
sume the whole country ? Which is the stronger, the 
small stick that first produces the fire, or the fire 
itself ? So is the spirit the element within the body, 
as the element of fire exists in the stick; the element 
being superior to the substance." 

Commoro .—" Ha! Can you explain what we fre¬ 
quently see at night when lost in the wilderness ? I 
have myself been lost, and wandering in the dark, 1 
have seen a distant fire; upon approaching, the fire 
has vanished, and I have been unable to trace the 
cause—nor could I find the spot." 

" Have you no idea of the existence of spirits 

* The natives always produce fire by rubbing two sticks together. 


CHAP. VI.] 


" GOOD AND DAD ALL DIR" 


249 


superior to either man or heast ? Have you no fear 
of evil except from bodily causes V 9 

Commoro. —" I am afraid of elephants and other 
animals when in the jungle at night, but of nothing 
else." 

"Then you believe in nothing; neither in a good nor 
evil spirit! And you believe that when you die it will 
be the end of body and spirit; that you are like 
other animals; and that there is no distinction 
between man and beast; both disappear, and end at 
death ?" 

Commoro.— ' Of course they do." 

" Do you see no difference in good and bad actions ?" 

Commoro. —" Yes, there are good and bad in men 
and beasts." 

" Do you think that a good man and a bad must 
share the same fate, and alike die, and end ?" 

Commoro. —" Yes; what else can they do ? How 
can they help dying ? Good and bad all die." 

" Their bodies perish, but their spirits remain ; the 
good in happiness, the bad in misery. If you have 
no belief in a future state, why should a man be good t 
Why should he not be bad, if he can prosper by 
wickedness V 9 

Commoro. —" Most people are bad; if they are 
strong they take from the weak. The good people are 


250 FAILURE OF THE RELIGIOUS ARGUMENT, [ chap . vi . 

all weak; they are good because they are not strong- 
enough to be bad." 

Some corn had been taken out of a sack for the 
horses, and a few grains lying scattered on the ground, 
I tried the beautiful metaphor of St. Paul as an 
example of a future state. Making a small hole with 
my finger in the ground, I placed a grain within it; 
" That," I said, " represents you when you die." 
Covering it with earth, I continued, " That grain will 
decay, but from it will rise the plant that will produce 
a reappearance of the original form." 

Commoro .— " Exactly so; that I understand. But 
the original grain does not rise again ; it rots like the 
dead man, and is ended; the fruit produced is not the 
same grain that we buried, but the production of that 
grain : so it is with man,—I die, and decay, and am 
ended; but my children grow up like the fruit of the 
grain. Some men have no children, and some grains 
perish without fruit; then all are ended." 

I was obliged to change the subject of conversation. 
In this wild naked savage there was not even a super¬ 
stition upon which to found a religious feeling; there 
was a belief in matter; and to his understanding 
everything was material. It was extraordinary to 
find so much clearness of perception combined with 
such complete obtuseness to anything ideal. 


CHAP. VI.] 


FURTHER CONVERSATION. 


251 


Giving up tlie religious argument as a failure, I 
resolved upon more practical inquiries. 

The Turks had only arrived in the Latooka country 
in the preceding year. They had not introduced the 
cowrie shell; but I observed that every helmet was 
ornamented with this species; it therefore occurred to 
me that they must find their way into the country 
from Zanzibar. 

In reply to my inquiries, Com moro pointed to the 
south, from which he said they arrived in his country, 
but he had no idea from whence they came. The 
direction was sufficient to prove that they must be 
sent from the east coast, as Speke and Grant had 
followed the Zanzibar traders as far as Karagwe, the 
2° S. lat. 

Commoro could not possibly understand my object 
in visiting the Latooka country; it was in vain that 
I attempted to explain the intention of my journey. 
He said, " Suppose you get to the great lake, what will 
you do with it ? What will be the good of it ? If 
you find that the large river does flow from it, what 
then ? What/s the good of it ?" 

I could only assure him, that in England we had an 
intimate knowledge of the whole world, except the 
interior of Africa, and that our object in exploring 
was to benefit the hitherto unknown countries by 


252 


THE CAMEL POISONED. 


[chap. VI. 


instituting legitimate trade, and introducing manu¬ 
factures from England in exchange for ivory and other 
productions. He replied that the Turks would never 
trade fairly; that they were extremely had people, and 
that they would not purchase ivory in any other way 
than by bartering cattle, which they stole from one tribe 
to sell to another. 

Our conversation was suddenly terminated by one 
of my men running in to the tent with the bad news 
that one of the camels had dropped down and was 
dying. The report was too true. He was poisoned 
by a well-known plant that he had been caught in the 
act of eating. In a few hours he died. There is no 
more stupid animal than the camel. Nature has im¬ 
planted in most animals an instinctive knowledge of 
the plants suitable for food, and they generally avoid 
those that are poisonous : but the camel will eat indis¬ 
criminately anything that is green ; and if in a coun¬ 
try where the plant exists that is well known by the 
Arabs as the " camel poison," watchers must always 
accompany the animals while grazing. The most fatal 
plant is a creeper, very succulent, and so beautifully 
green that its dense foliage is most attractive to the 
stupid victim. The stomach of the camel is very 
subject to inflammation, which is rapidly fatal. I 
have frequently seen them, after several days of sharp 


CHAP. VI.] 


HABITS OF THE CAMEL 


253 


desert marching, arrive in good pasture, and die, within 
a few hours, of inflammation caused by repletion. It 
is extraordinary how they can exist upon the driest 
and apparently most un-nutritious food. When other 
animals are starving, the camel manages to pick up 
a subsistence, eating the ends of barren, leafless twigs, 
the dried sticks of certain shrubs, and the tough dry 
paper-like substance of the dome palm, about as 
succulent a breakfast as would be a green umbrella 
and a Times newspaper. With intense greediness the 
camel, although a hermit in simplicity of fare in hard 
times, feeds voraciously when in abundant pasture, 
always seeking the greenest shrubs. The poison-bush 
becomes a fatal bait. 

The camel is by no means well understood in 
Europe. Far from being the docile and patient animal 
generally described, it is quite the reverse, and the 
males are frequently dangerous. They are exceedingly 
perverse; and are, as before described, excessively 
stupid. For the great deserts they are wonderfully 
adapted, and without them it would be impossible 
to cross certain tracts of country for want of water. 

Exaggerated accounts have been written respecting 
the length of time that a camel can travel without 
drinking. The period that the animal can subsist 
without suffering from thirst depends entirely upcn 


254 


CAMEL'S PECULIAR CONSTITUTION . [chap. vi. 


the season and the quality of food. Precisely as in 
Europe sheep require but little water when fed upon 
turnips, so does the camel exist almost without drink¬ 
ing during the rainy season when pastured upon succu¬ 
lent and dewy herbage. During the hottest season, 
when green herbage ceases to exist in the countries 
inhabited by camels, they are led to water every alter¬ 
nate day, thus they are supposed to drink once in 
forty-eight hours; but when upon the march across 
deserts, where no water exists, they are expected to 
carry a load of from five to six hundred pounds, and 
to march twenty-five miles per day, for three days, 
without drinking, but to be watered on the fourth day. 
Thus a camel should drink the evening before the 
start, and he will carry his load one hundred miles 
without the necessity of drinking; not, however, with¬ 
out suffering from thirst. On the third day's march, 
during the hot simoom, the camel should drink if 
possible; but he can endure the fourth day. 

This peculiarity of constitution enables the camel to 
overcome obstacles of nature that would otherwise be 
insurmountable. Not only can he travel over the 
scorching sand of the withering deserts, but he never 
seeks the shade. When released from his burden he 
kneels by his load in the burning sand, and luxuriates 
in the glare of a sun that drives all other beasts to 


chap, vi.] THE HYGEEN, OR RIDING DROMEDARY. 255 

shelter. The peculiar spongy formation of the foot 
renders the camel exceedingly sure, although it is 
usual to believe that it is only adapted for flat, sandy 
plains. I have travelled over mountains so preci¬ 
pitous that no domestic animal but the camel could 
have accomplished the task with a load. This capa¬ 
bility is not shared generally by the race, but by a 
breed belonging to the Hadendowa Arabs, between 
the Eed Sea and Taka. There is quite as great a 
variety in the breeds of camels as of horses. Those 
most esteemed in the Soodan are the Bishareen; they 
are not so large as others, but are exceedingly strong 
and enduring. 

The average value of a baggage camel among the 
Soodan Arabs is fifteen dollars, but a good " hygeen," 
or riding dromedary, is worth from fifty to a hundred 
and fifty dollars, according to his capabilities. A 
thoroughly good hygeen is supposed to travel fifty 
miles a day, and to continue this pace for five days, 
carrying only his rider and a small water skin or girba. 
His action should be so easy that his long ambling 
trot should produce that peculiar movement adopted 
by a nurse when hushing a child to sleep upon her 
knee. This movement is delightful, and the quick 
elastic step of a first-class animal imparts an invigorat¬ 
ing spirit to the rider, and were it not for the intensity 


256 LOSS OF CAMEL A MISFORTUNE. [chap. vi. 

of the sun, he would willingly ride for ever. The 
difference of action and of comfort to the rider between 
a common camel and a high class hygeen, is equal to 
that between a thoroughbred and a heavy dray horse. 

However, with all the good qualities of a "Bisha- 
reen," my best camel was dead. This was a sad loss. 
So long as my animals were well I felt independent, 
and the death of this camel was equal to minus five 
cwt. of luggage. My men were so idle that they paid 
no attention to the animals, and the watcher who had 
been appointed to look after the four camels had 
amused himself by going to the Latooka dance. Thus 
was the loss of my best animal occasioned. 

So well had all my saddles and pads been arranged 
at Khartoum, thaf although we had marched seven 
days with exceedingly heavy loads, not one of the 
animals had a sore back. The donkeys were exceed¬ 
ingly fresh, but they had acquired a most disgusting 
habit. The Latookas are remarkably clean in their 
towns, and nothing unclean is permitted within the 
stockade or fence. Thus the outside, especially the 
neighbourhood of the various entrances, was excessively 
filthy, and my donkeys actually fattened as scavengers, 
like pigs. I remembered that my unfortunate German 
Johann Schmidt had formerly told me that he was at 
one time shooting in the Base country, where the 


CHAP. VI.] 


DIRTY DONKEYS. 


257 


grass had been burnt, and not a blade of vegetation 
was procurable. He had abundance of sport, and he 
fed his donkey upon the flesh of antelopes, which he 
ate with avidity, and throve exceedingly. It is a 
curious fact that donkeys should under certain circum¬ 
stances become omnivorous, while horses remain clean 
feeders. 


VOL. I. 


s 


CHAPTER VII. 


LATOOKA. 

The country in the immediate neighbourhood of 
Latooka was parched, as there had been no rain for some 
time. The latitude was 4S 35', longitude 32°. 55' E.; 
the rains had commenced in February on the moun¬ 
tains on the south side of the valley, about eighteen 
miles distant. Every day there was an appearance of a 
storm ; the dark clouds gathered ominously around the 
peak of the Gebel Lafeet above the town, but they were 
invariably attracted by the higher range on the 
opposite and south side of the valley, where they 
daily expended themselves at about 3 p. m. On 
that side of the valley the mountains rose to about 
6,000 feet, and formed a beautiful object seen from my 
camp. It was most interesting to observe the embryo 
storms travel from Tarrangolle in a circle, and 
ultimately crown the higher range before us, while the 


chap, vii.] HERBS OF THE LATOOKAS AND GAME. 259 

thunder roared and echoed from rock to rock across 
the plain. 

The Latookas assured me that at the foot of those 
mountains there were elephants and giraffes in abun¬ 
dance ; accordingly, I determined to make a recon¬ 
naissance of the country. 

On the following morning I started on horseback, 
with two of my people mounted, and a native guide, 
and rode through the beautiful valley of Latooka to 
the foot of the range. The first five or six miles were 
entirely de-pastured by the enormous herds of the 
Latookas who were driven to that distance from the 
towns daily, all the country in the immediate vicinity 
being dried up. The valley was extremely fertile, but 
totally unoccupied and in a state of nature, being a 
wilderness of open plains, jungles, patches of forest and 
gullies, that although dry evidently formed swamps 
during the wet season. When about eight miles from 
the town we came upon tracks of the smaller antelopes, 
which, although the weakest, are the most daring in 
approaching the habitations of man. A few miles 
farther on, we saw buffaloes and hartebeest, and shortly 
came upon tracks of giraffes. Just at this moment the 
inky clouds that as usual had gathered over Tarrangolle 
came circling around us, and presently formed so dense 
a canopy that the darkness was like a partial eclipse. 

S 2 


269 


STORM. 


[chap. VII. 


The thunder warned us with tremendous explosions 
just above us, while the lightning flashed almost at our 
feet with blinding vividness. A cold wind suddenly 
rushed through the hitherto calm air ; this is the certain 

precursor of rain in hot climates, the heavier cold air 

*¦ 

of the rain-cloud falling into the stratum of warmer 
and lighter atmosphere below. It did rain ;—in such 
torrents as only the inhabitants of tropical countries 
can understand. " Cover up the gunlocks ! "¦—and the 
pieces of mackintosh for that purpose were immediately 
secured in their places. Well, let it rain !—it is rather 
pleasant to be wet through in a country where the 
thermometer is seldom below 92° Fahr., especially when 
there is no doubt of getting wet through;—not like 
the wretched drizzling rain of England, that chills you 
with the fear that perhaps your great-coat is not water¬ 
proof, but a regular douche bath that would beat in 
the crown of a cheap hat. How delightful to be really 
cool in the centre of Africa ! I was charmingly wet— 
the water was running out of the heels of my shoes, 
which were overflowing; the wind howled over the 
flood that was pouring through the hitherto dry gullies, 
and in the course of ten minutes the whole scene had 
changed. It was no longer the tropics; the climate 
was that of old England restored to me : the chilled 
air refreshed me, and I felt at home again. "How 


chap, vii.] EFFECTS OF RAIN UPON NATIVES. 


261 


delightful! " I exclaimed, as I turned round to see how 
my followers were enjoying it. Dear me ! I hardly 
knew my own people. Of all the miserable individuals 
I ever saw, they were superlative—they were not enjoy¬ 
ing the change of climate in the least;—with heads 
tucked down and streams of water running from their 
nasal extremities, they endeavoured to avoid the storm. 
Perfectly thoughtless of all but self in the extremity 
of their misery, they had neglected the precaution of 
lowering the muzzles of their guns, and my beautiful 
No. 10 rifles were full of water. "Charming day!" I 
exclaimed to my soaked and shivering followers, who 
looked like kittens in a pond. They muttered some¬ 
thing that might be interpreted " What's fun to you is 
death to us." I comforted them with the assurance 
that this was an English climate on a midsummer day. 
If my clothed Arabs suffered from cold, where was my 
naked guide ? He was the most pitiable object I ever 
saw; with teeth chattering and knees knocking together 
with cold, he crouched under the imaginary shelter of 
a large tamarind tree ; he was no longer the clean black 
that had started as my guide, but the cold and wet 
had turned him grey, and being thin, he looked like an 
exaggerated slate-pencil. 

Not wishing to discourage my men, I unselfishly 
turned back just as I was beginning to enjoy myself, 


262 


NATIVE BLACKSMITHS. 


[chap. yji. 


and my people regarded me as we do the Polar bear 
at the Zoological Gardens, who begins to feel happy 
on the worst day in our English winter. 

We returned home by a different route, not being 
able to find the path in the trackless state of the 
country during the storm. There were in some places 
unmistakeable evidences of the presence of elephants, 
and I resolved to visit the spot again. I returned to 
the tent at 4 p.m. satisfied that sport was to be had. 

On my arrival at camp I found the natives very 
excited at the appearance of rain, which they firmly 
believed had been called specially by their chief. All 
were busy preparing their molotes (iron hoes), fitting 
new handles, and getting everything ready for the 
periodical sowing of their crop. 

The handles of the molotes are extremely long, from 
seven to ten feet, and the instrument being shaped 
like a miners spade (heart-shaped), is used like a 
Dutch hoe, and is an effective tool in ground that has 
been cleared, but is very unfitted for preparing fresh 
soil. Iron ore of good quality exists on the surface 
throughout this country. The Latookas, like the Baris, 
are excellent blacksmiths, producing a result that would 
astonish an English workman, considering the rough 
nature of their tools, which are confined to a hammer, 
anvil, and tongs; the latter formed of a cleft-stick of 


CHAP. VII.] 


THEIR TOOLS. 


263 


green wood, while the two former are stones of various 
sizes. Their bellows consist of two pots about a 
foot deep; from the bottom of each is an earthenware 
pipe about two feet long, the points of which are 
inserted in a charcoal fire. The mouths of the pots 
are covered with very pliable leather, loose and well 
greased; in the centre of each leather covering is an 
upright stick about four feet long, and the bellows- 
blower works these rapidly with a perpendicular 
motion, thus producing a strong blast. The natives 
are exceedingly particular in the shape of their molotes, 
and invariably prove them by balancing them on their 
heads and ringing them by a blow with the finger. 

The Latookas being much engaged in preparing for 
cultivation, I had some difficulty in arranging a hunting 
party; my men abhorred the idea of elephant hunting, 
or of anything else that required hard work and in¬ 
cluded danger. However, I succeeded in engaging 
Adda, the third chief of Latooka, and several natives, 
to act as my guides, and I made my arrangements for 
a stated day. 

On the 17th of April I started at 5 a.m. with my 
three horses and two camels, the latter carrying water 
and food. After a march of two or three hours through 
the beautiful hunting-grounds formed by the valley of 
Latooka, with its alternate prairies and jungles, I came 


264 


ELEPHANTS. 


[chap. VII?. 


upon the tracks of rhinoceros, giraffes, and elephants, 
and shortly moved a rhinoceros, but could get no shot, 
owing to the thick bush in vdiich he started and dis¬ 
appeared quicker than I could dismount. After a 
short circuit in search of the rhinoceros, we came upon 
a large herd of buffaloes, but at the same moment 
we heard elephants trumpeting at the foot of the 
mountains. Not wishing to fire, lest the great game 
should be disturbed, I contented myself with riding 
after the buffaloes, wonderfully followed on foot by 
Adda, who ran like a deer, and almost kept up with 
my horse, hurling his three lances successively at the 
buffaloes, but without success. I had left the camels 
in an open plain, and returning from the gallop after 
the buffaloes, I saw the men on the camels beckoning 
to me in great excitement. Cantering towards them, 
they explained that a herd of bull elephants had just 
crossed an open space, and had passed into the jungle 
beyond. There was evidently abundance of game ; and 
calling my men together, I told them to keep close to 
me with the spare horses and rifles, while I sent the 
Latookas ahead to look out for the elephants: we 
followed at a short distance. 

In about ten minutes we saw the Latookas hurrying 
towards us, and almost immediately after, I saw two 
enormous bull elephants with splendid tusks about a 


CHAP. VII.] 


ELEPHANT HUNT. 


265 


hundred yards from us, apparently the leaders of an 
approaching herd. The ground was exceedingly favour¬ 
able, being tolerably open, and yet with sufficient bush 
to afford a slight cover. Presently, several elephants 
appeared and joined the two leaders—there was evi¬ 
dently a considerable number in the herd, and I was 
on the point of dismounting to take the first shot on 
foot, when the Latookas, too eager, approached the 
herd; their red and blue helmets at once attracted 
the attention of the elephants, and a tremendous rush 
took place, the whole herd closing together and tearing 
off at full speed. " Follow me !" I hallooed to my men, 
and touching my horse with the spur, I intended to 
dash into the midst of the herd. Just at that instant, 
in his start, my horse slipped and fell suddenly upon 
his side, falling upon my right leg and thus pinning 
me to the ground. He was not up to my weight, and 
releasing myself, I immediately mounted my old 
Abyssinian hunter, " Tetel," and followed the tracks 
of the elephants at full speed, accompanied by two of 
the Latookas, who ran like hounds. Galloping through 
the green but thornless bush, I soon came in sight of a 
grand bull elephant, steaming along like a locomotive 
engine straight before me. Digging in the spurs, I 
was soon within twenty yards of him; but the ground 
was so unfavourable, being full of buffalo holes, that I 


266 


TETEL } MY OLD HUNTER. 


[chap. VII. 


could not pass him. In about a quarter of an hour, 
after a careful chase over deep ruts and gullies con¬ 
cealed in high grass, I arrived at a level space, and 
shooting ahead, I gave him a shoulder shot with the 
Reilly No. 10 rifle. I saw the wound in a good place, 
but the bull rushed along all the quicker, and again 
we came into bad ground that made it unwise to close. 
However, on the first opportunity I made a dash by 
him, and fired my left-hand barrel at full gallop. He 
slackened his speed, but I could not halt to reload, 
lest I should lose sight of him in the high grass and 
bush. 

Not a man was with me to hand a spare rifle. My 
cowardly fellows, although light-weights and well 
mounted, were nowhere; the natives were outrun, as 
of course was Richarn, who, not being a good rider, 
had preferred to hunt on foot. In vain I shouted for 
the men; and I followed the elephant with an empty 
rifle for about ten minutes, until he suddenly turned 
round, and stood facing me in an open spot in grass 
about nine or ten feet high. " Tetel " was a grand 
horse for elephants, not having the slightest fear, and 
standing fire like a rock, never even starting under 
the discharge of the heaviest charge of powder. I 
now commenced reloading, when presently one of my 
men, Yaseen, came up upon " Filfil." Taking a spare 


chap. vii. j CHARGED BY A HERD OF ELEPHANTS. 267 

gun from him, I rode rapidly past the elephant, and 
suddenly reining up, I made a good shot exactly 
behind the bladebone. With a shrill scream the 
elephant charged down upon me like a steam-engine. 
In went the spurs. " Tetel " knew his work, and away 
he went over the ruts and gullies, the high dry grass 
whistling in my ears as we shot along at full speed, 
closely followed by the enraged bull for about two 
hundred yards. 

The elephant then halted; and turning the horse's 
head, I again faced him and reloaded. I thought he 
was dying, as he stood with trunk drooping, and ears 
closely pressed back upon his neck. Just at this 
moment I heard the rush of elephants advancing 
through the green bush upon the rising ground above 
the hollow formed by the open space of high withered 
grass in which we were standing facing each other. 
My man Yaseen had bolted with his fleet horse at the 
first charge, and was not to be seen. Presently, the 
rushing sound increased, and the heads of a closely 
packed herd of about eighteen elephants showed above 
the low bushes, and they broke cover, bearing down 
directly upon me, both I and my horse being un¬ 
observed in the high grass. I never saw a more lovely 
sight; they were all bulls with immense tusks. Waiting 
until they were within twenty yards of me, I galloped 


268 


COWARDLY FOLLOWERS. 


[chap. VII. 


straight at them, giving a yell that turned them. Away 
they rushed up the hill, but at so great a pace, that 
upon the rutty and broken ground I could not overtake 
them, and they completely distanced me. Tetel, al¬ 
though a wonderfully steady hunter, was an uncommonly 
slow horse, but upon this day he appeared to be slower 
than usual, and I was not at the time aware that he 
was seriously ill. By following three elephants sepa¬ 
rated from the herd I came up to them by a short cut, 
and singling out a fellow with enormous tusks, I rode 
straight at him. Finding himself overhauled, he 
charged me with such quickness and followed me up 
so far, that it was with the greatest difficulty that I 
cleared him. When he turned, I at once returned to 
the attack; but he entered a thick thorny jungle through 
which no horse could follow, and I failed to obtain a 
shot. 

I was looking for a path through which I could 
penetrate the bush, when I suddenly heard natives 
shouting in the direction where I had left the wounded 
bull. Galloping towards the spot, I met a few scattered 
natives; among others, Adda. After shouting for some 
time, at length Yaseen appeared upon my horse Filfil; 
he had fled as usual when he saw the troop of elephants 
advancing, and no one knows how far he had ridden 
before he thought it safe to look behind him. With 





THE LAST CHARGE. 





































































chap, vii.] TRACK THE WOUNDED ELEPHANT . 269 

two mounted gun-bearers and five others on foot I had 
been entirely deserted through the cowardice of my 
men. The elephant that I had left as dying, was gone. 
One of the Latookas had followed upon his tracks, 
and we heard this fellow shouting in the distance. 
I soon overtook him, and he led rapidly upon the 
track through thick bushes and high grass. In about 
a quarter of an hour we came up with the elephant; 
he was standing in bush, facing us at about fifty yards' 
distance, and immediately perceiving us, he gave a 
saucy jerk with his head, and charged most deter¬ 
minedly. It was exceedingly difficult to escape, owing 
to the bushes which impeded the horse, while the 
elephant crushed them like cobwebs: however, by 
turning my horse sharp round a tree, I managed to 
evade him after a chase of about a hundred and fifty 
yards. Disappearing in the jungle after his charge, I 
immediately followed him. The ground was hard, and 
so trodden by elephants that it was difficult to single 
out the track. There was no blood upon the ground, 
but only on the trees every now and then, where he 
had rubbed past them in his retreat. After nearly 
two hours passed in slowly following upon his path, 
we suddenly broke cover and saw him travelling very 
quietly through an extensive plain of high grass. The 
ground was gently inclining upwards on either side 


270 


NEARLY CAUGHT. 


[chap. VII. 


the plain, but the level was *a mass of deep, hardened 
ruts, over which no horse could gallop. Knowing my 
friend's character, I rode up the rising ground to re¬ 
connoitre : I found it tolerably clear of holes, and far 
superior to the rutty bottom. My two mounted gun- 
bearers had now joined me, and far from enjoying the 
sport, they were almost green with fright, when I 
ordered them to keep close to me and to advance. I 
wanted them to attract the elephant's attention, so as 
to enable me to obtain a good shoulder shot. Eiding 
along the open plain, I at length arrived within about 
fifty yards of the bull, when he slowly turned. Eeining 
" Tetel" up, I immediately fired a steady shot at the 
shoulder with the Eeilly No. 10 :—for a moment he 
fell upon his knees, but, recovering with wonderful 
quickness, he was in full charge upon me. Fortunately 
I had inspected my ground previous to the attack, and 
away I went up the inclination to my right, the spurs 
hard at work, and the elephant screaming with rage, 
gaining on me. My horse felt as though made of 
wood, and clumsily rolled along in a sort of cow-gallop; 
—in vain I dug 4he spurs into his flanks, and urged 
him by rein and voice; not an extra stride could I get 
out of him, and he reeled along as though thoroughly 
exhausted, plunging in and out of the buffalo holes 
instead of jumping them. Hamed was on my 


TETEL DISTRESSED. 


CHAP. VII.] 


271 


horse " Mouse," who went three to a Tetel's" one, and 
instead of endeavouring to divert the elephant's 
attention, he shot ahead, and thought of nothing but 
getting out of the way. Yaseen, on " Filfil," had fled 
in another direction; thus I had the pleasure of being 
hunted down upon a sick and disabled horse. I kept 
looking round, thinking that the elephant would give 
in :—we had been running for nearly half a mile, and 
the brute was overhauling me so fast that he was 
within ten or twelve yards of the horse's tail, with his 
trunk stretched out to catch him. Screaming like the 
whistle of an engine, he fortunately so frightened the 
horse that he went his best, although badly, and I 
turned him suddenly down the hill and doubled back 
like a hare. The elephant turned up the hill, and en¬ 
tering the jungle he relinquished the chase, when 
another hundred yards' run would have bagged me. 

In a life's experience in elephant-hunting, I never 
was hunted for such a distance. Great as were Tetel's 
good qualities for pluck and steadiness, he had ex¬ 
hibited such distress and want of speed, that I was 
sure he failed through some sudden malady. I imme¬ 
diately dismounted, and the horse laid down, as I 
thought, to die. 

Whistling loudly, I at length recalled Hamed, who 
had still continued his rapid flight without once looking 


272 


RETURN TO CAMP . 


[chap. VII. 


back, although the elephant was out of sight. Yaseen 
was, of course, nowhere; but after a quarter of an 
hour's shouting and whistling, he reappeared, and I 
mounted Filfil, ordering Tetel to be led home. 

The sun had just sunk, and the two Latookas who 
now joined me refused to go farther on the tracks, 
saying, that the elephant must die during the night, 
and that they would find him in the morning. We 
were at least ten miles from camp; I therefore fired 
a shot to collect my scattered men, and in about half 
an hour we all joined together, except the camels and 
their drivers, that we had left miles behind. 

No one had tasted food since the previous day, nor 
had I drunk water, although the sun had been burning 
hot; I now obtained some muddy rain water from a 
puddle, and we went towards home, where we arrived 
at half-past eight, every one tired with the day's work. 
The camels came into camp about an hour later. 

My men were all now wonderfully brave; each had 
some story of a narrow escape, and several declared 
that the elephants had run over them, but fortunately 
without putting their feet upon them. 

The news spread through the town that the elephant 
was killed; and, long before daybreak on the following 
morning, masses of natives had started for the jungles, 
where they found him lying dead. Accordingly, they 


chap, vii.] AFRICAN AND INDIAN ELEPHANTS. 273 

stole his magnificent tusks, which they carried to the 
town of Wakkala, and confessed to taking all the flesh, 
but laid the blame of the ivory theft upon the Wakkala 
tribe. 

There was no redress. The questions of a right 
of game are ever prolific of bad blood, and it was 
necessary in this instance to treat the matter lightly. 
Accordingly, the natives requested me to go out and 
shoot them another elephant; on the condition of 
obtaining the meat, they were ready to join in any 
hunting expedition. 

The elephants in Central Africa have very superior 
tusks to those of Abyssinia. I had shot a considerable 
number in the Base country on the frontier of Abys¬ 
sinia, and few tusks were above 30lbs. weight; those 
in the neighbourhood of the White Nile average about 
50 lbs. for each tusk of a bull elephant, while those of 
the females are generally about 10 lbs. I have seen 
monster tusks of 160 lbs. and one was in the possession 
of a trader, Mons. P., that weighed 172 lbs. 

It is seldom that a pair of tusks are alike. As 
a man uses the right hand in preference to the left, so 
the elephant works with a particular tusk, which is 
termed by the traders " el Hadam " (the servant); this 
is naturally more worn than the other, and is usually 
about ten pounds lighter : frequently it is broken, as the 

VOL. I. T 


274 


HEIGHT OF ELEPHANTS. 


[chap. VII. 


elephant uses it as a lever to uproot trees and to tear 
up the roots of various hushes upon which he feeds. 

The African elephant is not only entirely different 
from the Indian species in his habits, but he also 
differs in form. 

There are three distinguishing peculiarities. The 
back of the African elephant is concave, that of the 
Indian is convex; the ear of the African is enormous, 
entirely covering the shoulder when thrown back, 
while the ear of the Indian variety is comparatively 
small. The head of the African has a convex front, 
the top of the skull sloping back at a rapid inclination, 
while the head of the Indian elephant exposes a flat 
surface a little above the trunk. The average size of 
the African elephant is larger than those of Ceylon, 
although I have occasionally shot monster rogues in 
the latter country, equal to anything that I have seen 
in Africa. The average height of female elephants in 
Ceylon is about 7 ft. 10 in. at the shoulder, and that of 
the males is about 9 ft.; but the usual height of the 
African variety I have found, by actual measurement* 
of females to be 9 ft., while that of the bulls is 10 ft. 6 in. 
Thus the females of the African are equal to the males 
of Ceylon. 

They also differ materially in their habits. In Ceylon, 
the elephant seeks the shade of thick forests at the 


CHAP. VII.] 


FOOD OF FLFPHANTS. 


275 


rising of the sun, in which he rests until about 5 p.m. 
when he wanders forth upon the plains. In Africa, 
the country being generally more open, the elephant 
remains throughout the day either beneath a solitary 
tree, or exposed to the sun in the vast prairies, where 
the thick grass attains a height of from nine to twelve 
feet. The general food of the African elephant consists 
of the foliage of trees, especially of mimosas. In 
Ceylon, although there are many trees that serve as 
food, the elephant nevertheless is an extensive grass- 
feeder. The African variety, being almost exclusively 
a tree-feeder, requires his tusks to assist him in pro¬ 
curing food. Many of the mimosas are flat-headed, 
about thirty feet high, and the richer portion of the 
foliage confined to the crown; thus the elephant, not 
being able to reach to so great a height, must overturn 
the tree to procure the coveted food. The destruction 
caused by a herd of African elephants in a mimosa 
forest is extraordinary; and I have seen trees uprooted 
of so large a size, that I am convinced no single 
elephant could have overturned them. I have mea¬ 
sured trees four feet six inches in circumference, 
and about thirty feet high, uprooted by elephants. 
The natives have assured me that they mutually assist 
each other, and that several engage together in the 
work of overturning a large tree. None of the mimosas 

t 2 


276 AFRICAN AND CEYLON ELEPHANTS. [chap. vii. 

have tap-roots ; thus the powerful tusks of the ele¬ 
phants, applied as crowbars at the roots, while others 
pull at the branches with their trunks, will effect the 
destruction of a tree so large as to appear invulnerable. 
The Ceylon elephant rarely possessing tusks, cannot 
destroy a tree thicker than the thigh of an ordi¬ 
nary man. 

In Ceylon, I have seldom met old bulls in parties— 
they are generally single or remain in pairs ; but, in 
Africa, large herds are met with, consisting entirely of 
bulls. I have frequently seen sixteen or twenty 
splendid bulls together, presenting a show of ivory 
most exciting to a hunter. The females in Africa con¬ 
gregate in vast herds of many hundreds, while in 
Ceylon the herds seldom average more than ten. 

The elephant is by far the most formidable of all 
animals, and the African variety is more dangerous 
than the Indian, as it is next to impossible to kill it 
by the forehead shot. The head is so peculiarly 
formed, that the ball either passes over the brain, or 
lodges in the immensely solid bones and cartilages 
that contain the roots of the tusks. I have measured 
certainly a hundred bull tusks, and I have found them 
buried in the head a depth of twenty-four inches. 
One large tusk, that measured 7 ft. 8 in. in length, and 
22 inches in girth, was imbedded in the head a depth 


chap, vii.] DIFFERENCE IN FORMATION OF BRAIN. 277 

of 31 inches. This will convey an idea of the enormous 
size of the head, and of the strength of bone and 
cartilage required to hold in position so great a weight, 
and to resist the strain when the tusk is used as a 
lever to uproot trees. 

The brain of an African elephant rests upon a plate 
of bone exactly above the roots of the upper grinders; 
it is thus wonderfully protected from a front shot, as 
it lies so low that the ball passes above it when the 
elephant raises his head, which he invariably does 
when in anger, until close to the object of his attack. 

The character of the country naturally influences 
the habits of the animals : thus, Africa, being more 
generally open than the forest-clad Ceylon, the ele¬ 
phant is more accustomed to activity, and is much 
faster than the Ceylon variety. Being an old elephant- 
hunter of the latter island, I was exceedingly inte¬ 
rested in the question of variety of species, and I had 
always held the opinion that the African elephant 
might be killed with the same facility as that of 
Ceylon, by the forehead shot, provided that a sufficient 
charge of powder were used to penetrate the extra 
thickness of the head. I have found, by much expe¬ 
rience, that I was entirely wrong, and that, although 
by chance an African elephant may be killed by the 
front shot, it is the exception to the rule. The danger 


278 RIFLES AND BULLETS FOR HEAVY GAME. [chap. yii. 

of the sport is, accordingly, much increased, as it is 
next to impossible to kill the elephant when in full 
charge, and the only hope of safety consists in turning 
him by a continuous fire with heavy guns; this cannot 
always be effected. 

I had a powerful pair of No. 10 polygroove rifles, 
made by Beilly of Oxford Street; they weighed fifteen 
pounds, and carried seven drachms of powder without 
a disagreeable recoil. The bullet was a blunt cone, 
one and a half diameter of the bore, and I used a 
mixture of nine-tenths lead and one-tenth quicksilver 
for the hardening of the projectile. This is superior 
to all mixtures for that purpose, as it combines hard¬ 
ness with extra weight; the lead must be melted in a 
pot by itself to a red heat, and the proportion of 
quicksilver must be added a ladle-full at a time, 
and stirred quickly with a piece of iron just in 
sufficient quantity to make three or four bullets. If 
the quicksilver is subjected to a red heat in the large 
lead pot, it will evaporate. The only successful fore¬ 
head shot that I made at an African elephant, was 
shortly after my arrival in the Abyssinian territory on 
the Settite river ; this was in thick thorny jungle, and 
an elephant from the herd charged with such good 
intention, that had she not been stopped, she must 
have caught one of the party. When within about 


chap, vii.] CHARACTER OF COUNTRY AND ITS SPORTS. 279 

five yards of the muzzle, I killed her dead by a fore¬ 
head shot with a hardened bullet as described, from a 
Reilly No. 10 rifle, and we subsequently recovered the 
bullet in the vertebrce of the neck! 

This extraordinary penetration led me to suppose 
that I should always succeed as I had done in Ceylon, 
and I have frequently stood the charge of an African 
elephant until close upon me, determined to give the 
forehead shot a fair trial, but I have always failed, 
except in the instance now mentioned ; it must also be 
borne in mind that the elephant was a female, with a 
head far inferior in size and solidity to that of the 
male. 

The temple shot, and that behind the ear, are equally 
fatal in Africa as in Ceylon, provided the hunter can 
approach within ten or twelve yards; but altogether 
the hunting is far more difficult, as the character of the 
country does not admit of an approach sufficiently close 
to guarantee a successful shot. In the forests of Ceylon 
an elephant can be stalked to within a few paces, and 
the shot is seldom fired at a greater distance than ten 
yards : thus accuracy of aim is insured; but in the 
open ground of Africa, an elephant can seldom be 
approached within fifty yards, and should he charge 
the hunter, escape is most difficult. I never found 
African elephants in good jungle, except once, and on 


THE " BABY" 


[chap. VII. 


230 

tliat occasion I shot five, quite as quickly as we should 
kill them in Ceylon. 

The character of the sport must vary according to 
the character of the country; thus there may he parts 
of Africa at variance with my description. I only 
relate my own experience. 

Among other weapons, I had an extraordinary rifle 
that carried a half-pound percussion shell—this in¬ 
strument of torture to the hunter was not sufficiently 
heavy for the weight of the projectile ; it only weighed 
twenty pounds : thus, with a charge of ten drachms 
of powder, behind a half-pound shell, the recoil was 
so terrific, that I was spun round like a weathercock 
in a hurricane. I really dreaded my own rifle, although 
I had been accustomed to heavy charges of powder, 
and severe recoil for many years. None of my men 
could fire it, and it was looked upon with a species of 
awe, and was named " Jenna el Mootfah " (child of a 
cannon) by the Arabs, which being far too long a 
name for practice, I christened it the "Baby;" and 
the scream of this " Baby," loaded with a half-pound 
shell, was always fatal. It was far too severe, and I 
very seldom fired it, but it is a curious fact, that I 
never fired a shot with that rifle without bagging: 
the entire practice, during several years, was confined 
to about twenty shots. I was afraid to use it; but 


ghap. vil] METHOD OF KILLING ELEPHANTS. 281 

now and then it was absolutely necessary that it 
should he cleaned, after lying for months loaded. On 
such occasions my men had the gratification of firing 
it, and the explosion was always accompanied by two 
men falling on their backs (one having propped up 
the shooter), and the " Baby " flying some yards 
behind them. This rifle was made by Holland, of 
Bond Street, and I could highly recommend it for 
Goliath of Gath, but not for men of a.d. 1866. 

The natives of Central Africa generally hunt the 
elephant for the sake of the flesh, and prior to the 
commencement of the White Nile trade by the Arabs, 
and the discovery of the Upper White Nile to the 
5° N. lat. by the expedition sent by Mehemet Ali 
Pasha, the tusks were considered as worthless, and 
were treated as bones. The death of an elephant is 
a grand affair for the natives, as it supplies flesh for 
an enormous number of people, also fat, which is the 
great desire of all savages for internal and external 
purposes. There are various methods of killing them. 
Pitfalls are the most common, but the wary old bulls 
are seldom caught in this manner. The position 
chosen for the pit is, almost without exception, in the 
vicinity of a drinking-place, and the natives exhibit a 
great amount of cunning in felling trees across the 
usual run of the elephants, and sometimes cutting an 


282 


ELEPHANT PITFALLS. 


[CHAP. VII, 


open pit across the path, so as to direct the elephant 
by such obstacles into the path of snares. The pits 
are usually about twelve feet long, and three feet 
broad, by nine deep; these are artfully made, de¬ 
creasing towards the bottom to the breadth of a foot. 
The general elephant route to the drinking-place being 
blocked up, the animals are diverted by a treacherous 
path towards the water, the route intersected by nu¬ 
merous pits, all of which are carefully concealed by 
sticks and straw, the latter being usually strewn with 
elephants' dung to create a natural effect. 

Should an elephant, during the night, fall through 
the deceitful surface, his foot becomes jammed in the 
bottom of the narrow grave, and he labours shoulder- 
deep, with two feet in the pitfall so fixed that extri¬ 
cation is impossible. Should one animal be thus, 
caught, a sudden panic seizes the rest of the herd, and 
in their hasty retreat one or more are generally victims, 
to the numerous pits in the vicinity. The old bulls 
never approach a watering-place rapidly, but carefully 
listen for danger, and then slowly advance with their 
warning trunks stretched to the path before them 
the delicate nerves of the proboscis at once detect the 
hidden snare, and the victims to pitfalls are the 
members of large herds who, eager to push forward 
incautiously, put their " foot into it," like shareholders 


chap, vii.] CIRCLING THEM INTO FIRE. 283 - 

in bubble companies. Once helpless in the pit, they 
are easily killed with lances. 

The great elephant hunting season is in January, 
when the high prairies are parched and reduced to* 
straw. At such a time, should a large herd of animals 
be discovered, the natives of the entire district collect 
together to the number of perhaps a thousand men; 
surrounding the elephants by embracing a consider¬ 
able tract of country they fire the grass at a given 
signal. In a few minutes the unconscious elephants 
are surrounded by a circle of fire, which, however 
distant, must eventually close in upon them. The 
men advance with the fire, which rages to the height 
of twenty or thirty feet. At length the elephants, 
alarmed by the volumes of smoke and the roaring of 
the flames, mingled with the shouts of the hunters, 
attempt an escape. They are hemmed in on every 
side—wherever they rush, they are met by an im¬ 
passable barrier of flames and smoke, so stifling, that 
they are forced to retreat. Meanwhile the fatal circle 
is decreasing; buffaloes and antelopes, likewise doomed 
to a horrible fate, crowd panic-stricken to the centre 
of the encircled ring, and the raging fire sweeps over 
all. Burnt, and blinded by fire and smoke, the 
animals are now attacked by the savage crowd of 
hunters, excited by the helplessness of the unfortunate 


284 


NATIVE HUNTING. 


[chap. VII. 


elephants thus miserably sacrificed, and they fall 
under countless spears. This destructive method of 
hunting, ruins the game of that part of Africa, and 
so scarce are the antelopes, that, in a days journey, 
a dozen head are seldom seen in the open prairie. 

The next method of hunting is perfectly legitimate. 
Should many elephants be in the neighbourhood, the 
natives post about a hundred men in as many large 
trees ; these men are armed with heavy lances specially 
adapted to the sport, with blades about eighteen inches 
long and three inches broad. The elephants are driven 
by a great number of men towards the trees in which 
the spearmen are posted, and those that pass sufficiently 
near are speared between the shoulders. The spear 
being driven deep into the animal, creates a frightful 
wound, as the tough handle, striking against the in¬ 
tervening branches of trees acts as a lever, and works 
the long blade of the spear within the elephant, 
cutting to such an extent that he soon drops from 
exhaustion. 

The best and only really great elephant-hunters of 
the White Nile are the Bagara Arabs, on about the 
13° N. lat. These men hunt on horseback, and kill 
the elephant in fair fight with their spears. 

The lance is about fourteen feet long, of male 
bamboo; the blade is about fourteen inches long by 


CHAP. VII.] 


THE BAGARA HUNTERS. 


285 


nearly three inches broad ; this is as sharp as a razor. 
Two men, thus armed and mounted, form the hunting 
party. Should they discover a herd, they ride up to 
the finest tusker and single him from the others. One 
man now leads the way, and the elephant, finding 
himself pressed, immediately charges the horse. There 
is much art required in leading the elephant, who 
follows the horse with great determination, and the 
rider adapts his pace so as to keep his horse so near 
the elephant that his attention is entirely absorbed 
with the hope of catching him. The other hunter 
should by this time have followed close to the ele¬ 
phant's heels, and, dismounting when at full gallop 
with wonderful dexterity, he plunges his spear with 
both hands into the elephant about two feet below the 
junction of the tail, and with all his force he drives 
the spear about eight feet into his abdomen, and with¬ 
draws it immediately. Should he be successful in his 
stab, he remounts his horse and flies, or does his best 
to escape on foot, should he not have time to mount, as 
the elephant generally turns to pursue him. His com¬ 
rade immediately turns his horse, and, dashing at the 
elephant, in his turn dismounts, and drives his lance 
deep into his intestines. 

Generally, if the first thrust is scientifically given, 
the bowels protrude to such an extent that the elephant 


286 DANGER OF ELEPHANT HUNTING. [chap. vii. 

is at once disabled. Two good hunters will frequently 
kill several out of one herd; but in this dangerous 
hand-to-hand light the hunter is often the victim. 
Hunting the elephant on horseback is certainly far less 
dangerous than on foot, but although the speed of 
the horse is undoubtedly superior, the chase generally 
takes place upon ground so disadvantageous, that he 
is liable to fall, in which case there is little chance 
for either animal or rider. 

So savage are the natural instincts of Africans, that 
they attend only to the destruction of the elephant, 
.and never attempt its domestication. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


ibrahim's return. 

Ibrahim returned from Gondokoro, bringing with 
him a large supply of ammunition. A wounded man 
of Chenooda's people also arrived, the sole relic of the 
fight with the Latookas; he had been left for dead, 
but had recovered, and for days and nights he had 
wandered about the country, in thirst and hunger, 
hiding like a wild beast from the sight of human 
beings, liis guilty conscience marking every Latooka 
as an enemy. As a proof of the superiority of the 
natives to the Khartoumers, he had at length been 
met by some Latookas, and not only was well treated 
and fed by their women, but they had guided him to 
Ibrahim's camp. 

The black man is a curious anomaly, the good and 
bad points of human nature bursting forth without any 
arrangement, like the flowers and thorns of his own 


288 


THE AFRICAN BLACK. 


CHAP. VIII. 

wilderness. A creature of impulse, seldom actuated by 
reflection, the black man astounds by his complete 
obtuseness, and as suddenly confounds you by an 
unexpected exhibition of sympathy. From a long 
experience with African savages, I think it is as absurd 
to condemn the negro in toto, as it is preposterous 
to compare his intellectual capacity with that of the 
white man. It is unfortunately the fashion for one 
party to uphold the negro as a superior being, while 
the other denies him the common powers of reason. 
So great a difference of opinion has ever existed upon 
the intrinsic value of the negro, that the very per¬ 
plexity of the question is a proof that he is altogether 
a distinct variety. So long as it is generally considered 
that the negro and the white man are to be governed 
by the same laws and guided by the same manage¬ 
ment, so long will the former remain a thorn in the 
side of every community to which he may unhappily 
belong. When the horse and the ass shall be found 
to match in double harness, the white man and the 
African black will pull together under the same regime . 
It is the grand error of equalizing that which is un¬ 
equal, that has lowered the negro character, and made 
the black man a reproach. 

In his savage home, what is the African ? Certainly 
bad; but not so bad as white men would (I believe) 


chap, viii.] COMPARISON BETWEEN WHITES AND BLACKS. 289 


be under similar circumstances. He is acted upon by 
the bad passions inherent in human nature, but there 
is no exaggerated vice, such as is found in civilized 
countries. The strong takes from the weak, one tribe 
fights the other—do not perhaps we in Europe ?— 
these are the legitimate acts of independent tribes, 
authorized by their chiefs. They mutually enslave 
each other—how long is it since America and we our¬ 
selves ceased to be slaveholders ? He is callous and 
ungrateful—in Europe is there no ingratitude ? He is 
cunning and a liar by nature—in Europe is all truth 
and sincerity ? Why should the black man not be equal 
to the white ? He is as powerful in frame, why should 
he not be as exalted in mind ? 

In childhood I believe the negro to be in advance, 
in intellectual quickness, of the white child of a similar 
age, but the mind does not expand—it promises fruit, 
but does not ripen; and the negro man has grown in 
body, but has not advanced in intellect. 

The puppy of three months old is superior in intel¬ 
lect to a child of the same age, but the mind of the 
child expands, while that of the dog has arrived at its 
limit. The chicken of the common fowl has sufficient 
power and instinct to run in search of food the moment 
that it leaves the egg, while the young of the eagle lies 
helpless in its nest; but the young eagle outstrips the 

VOL. i. u 


290 


VARIETIES IN CREATION. 


[chap. VIII. 


chicken in the course of time. The earth presents a 
wonderful example of variety in all classes of the 
human race, the animal, and vegetable kingdoms. 
People, beasts, and plants belonging to distinct 
classes, exhibit special qualities and peculiarities. 
The existence of many hundred varieties of dogs can¬ 
not interfere with the fact that they belong to one 
genus: the greyhound, pug, bloodhound, pointer, 
poodle, mastiff, and toy terrier, are all as entirely dif¬ 
ferent in their peculiar instincts as are the varieties 
of the human race. The different fruits and flowers 
continue the example *—the wild grapes of the forest 
are grapes, but although they belong to the same class, 
they are distinct from the luscious " Muscatel; " and 
the wild dog-rose of the hedge, although of the same 
class, is inferior to the moss-rose of the garden. 

From fruits and flowers we may turn to insect life, 
and watch the air teeming with varieties of the same 
species, the thousands of butterflies and beetles, the 
many members of each class varying in instincts and 
peculiarities. Fishes, and even shellfish, all exhibit 
the same arrangement,—that every group is divided 
into varieties all differing from each other, and each 
distinguished by some peculiar excellence or defect. 

In the great system of creation that divided races 
and subdivided them according to mysterious laws, 


CHAP. VIII.] 


THE NEGRO. 


291 


apportioning special qualities to each, the varieties of 
the human race exhibit certain characters and quali¬ 
fications which adapt them for specific localities. The 
natural character of those races will not alter with a 
change of locality, but the instincts of each race will 
be developed in any country where they may be located. 
Thus, the English are as English in Australia, India, 
and America, as they are in England, and in every lo¬ 
cality they exhibit the industry and energy of their 
native land ; even so the African will remain negro in 
all his natural instincts, although transplanted to other 
soils; and those natural instincts being a love of idle¬ 
ness and savagedom, he will assuredly relapse into an 
idle and savage state, unless specially governed and 
forced to industry. 

The history of the negro has proved the correctness 
of this theory. In no instance has he evinced other 
than a retrogression, when once freed from restraint. 
Like a horse without harness, he runs wild, but, if har¬ 
nessed, no animal is more useful. Unfortunately, this 
is contrary to public opinion in England, where the 
vox populi assumes the right of dictation upon matters 
and men in which it has had no experience. The 
English insist upon their own weights and measures 
as the scales for human excellence, and it has been 
decreed by the multitude, inexperienced in the negro 

u 2 


292 CHARACTER OF THE NEGRO. [chap. viij. 

personally, that he has been a badly-treated brother; 
that he is a worthy member of the human family, 
placed in an inferior position through the prejudice 
and ignorance of the white man, with whom he should 
be upon equality. 

The negro has been, and still is, thoroughly mis¬ 
understood. However severely we may condemn the 
horrible system of slavery, the results of emancipation 
have proved that the negro does not appreciate the 
blessings of freedom, nor does he show the slightest 
feeling of gratitude to the hand that broke the rivets 
of his fetters. His narrow mind cannot embrace that 
feeling of pure philanthropy that first prompted England 
to declare herself against slavery, and he only regards 
the anti-slavery movement as a proof of his own im¬ 
portance. In his limited horizon he is himself the 
important object, and as a sequence to his self-conceit, 
he imagines that the whole world is at issue concerning 
the black rrian. The negro, therefore, being the im¬ 
portant question, must be an important person, and 
he conducts himself accordingly—he is far too great a 
man to work. Upon this point his natural character 
exhibits itself most determinedly. Accordingly, he 
resists any attempt at coercion; being free, his first 
impulse is to claim an equality with those whom he 
lately served, and to usurp a dignity with absurd pre- 


chap, viii.] ORIGINATED AFRICAN SLAVE SYSTEM. 293 

tensions, that must inevitably insure the disgust of 
the white community. Ill-will thus engendered, a 
hatred and jealousy is established between the two 
races, combined with the errors that in such conditions 
must arise upon both sides. The final question remains, 
Why was the negro first introduced into our colonies— 
and to America ? 

The sun is the great arbitrator between the white 
and the black man. There are productions necessary 
to civilized countries, that can alone be cultivated in 
tropical climates, where the white man cannot live if 
exposed to labour in the sun. Thus, such fertile 
countries as the West Indies and portions of America 
being without a native population, the negro was 
originally imported as a slave to fulfil the conditions 
of a labourer. In his own country he was a wild 
savage, and enslaved his brother man ; he thus became 
a victim to his own system; to the institution of 
slavery that is indigenous to the soil of Africa, and 
that has not been taught to the African by the white 
man , as is currently reported, but that has ever been 
the peculiar characteristic of African tribes. 

In his state of slavery the negro was compelled to 
work, and, through his labour, every country prospered 
where he had been introduced. He was suddenly 
freed; and from that moment he refused to work, and 


294 INDISPOSITION TO WORK. [chap. viii. 

instead of being a useful member of society, be not 
only became a useless burden to tbe community, but 
a plotter and intriguer, imbued with a deadly hatred 
to the white man who had generously declared him 
free. 

Now, as the negro was originally imported as a 
labourer, but now refuses to labour, it is self-evident 
that he is a lamentable failure. Either he must be 
compelled to work, by some stringent law against 
vagrancy, or those beautiful countries that prospered 
under the conditions of negro forced industry must 
yield to ruin, under negro freedom and idle inde¬ 
pendence. For an example of the results, look to St. 
Domingo ! 

Under peculiar guidance, and subject to a certain 
restraint, the negro may be an important and most 
useful being ; but if treated as an Englishman, he will 
affect the vices but none of the virtues of civilization, 
and his natural good qualities will be lost in his 
attempts to become a " white man." 

Revenons d nos moutons noirs. It was amusing 
to watch the change that took place in a slave that 
had been civilized (?) by the slave-traders. Among 
their parties, there were many blacks who had been 
captured, and who enjoyed the life of slave-hunting— 
nothing appeared so easy as to become professional in 


CHAF. VIII.] 


NEGRO SLAVE HUNTERS. 


295 


cattle razzias and kidnapping human beings, and the 
first act of a slave was to procure a slave for 
himself! All the best slave-hunters, and the boldest 
and most energetic scoundrels, were the negroes who 
had at one time themselves been kidnapped. These 
fellows aped a great and ridiculous importance. On 
the march they would seldom condescend to carry 
their own guns; a little slave boy invariably attended 
to his master, keeping close to his heels, and trotting 
along on foot during a long march, carrying a musket 
much longer than himself; a woman generally carried 
a basket with a cooking-pot, and a gourd of water and 
provisions, while a hired native carried the soldier's 
change of clothes and ox-hide upon which he slept. 
Thus the man who had been kidnapped became the 
kidnapper, and the slave became the master, the only 
difference between him and the Arab being an absurd 
notion of his own dignity. It was in vain that I 
attempted to reason with them against the principles of 
slavery ; they thought it wrong when they were them¬ 
selves the sufferers, but were always ready to indulge 
in it when the preponderance of power lay upon 
their side. 

Among Ibrahim's people, there was a black named 
Ibrahimawa. This fellow was a native of Bornu, and 
had been taken when a boy of twelve years old and 


296 


1 BRA IIIMA WA ; 


[chap. VIII. 


sold at Constantinople; lie formerly belonged to 
Mehemet Ali Paslia; lie bad been to London and 
Paris, and during the Crimean war be was at Kertcb. 
Altogether be was a great traveller, and be bad a 
natural taste for geography and botany, that marked 
him as a wonderful exception to the average of the 
party. He bad run away from his master in Egypt, 
and bad been vagabondizing about in Khartoum in 
handsome clothes, negro-like, persuading himself that 
the public admired him, and thought that he was a 
Bey. Having soon run through his money, he had 
engaged himself to Koorshid Aga to serve in his 
White Nile expedition. He was an excellent example 
of the natural instincts of the negro remaining in¬ 
tact under all circumstances. Although remarkably 
superior to his associates, his small stock of knowledge 
was combined with such an exaggerated conceit, that 
he was to me a perpetual source of amusement, while 
he was positively hated by his comrades, both by 
Arabs and blacks, for his overbearing behaviour. 
Having seen many countries, he was excessively fond 
of recounting his adventures, all of which had so 
strong a colouring of the " Arabian Nights," that he 
might have been the original " Sinbad the Sailor." 
His natural talent for geography was really extra¬ 
ordinary ; he would frequently pay me a visit, and 


OHAP. VIII.] 


OR, SINBAD THE SAILOR . 


297 


spend hours in drawing maps with a stick upon the 
sand, of the countries he had visited, and especially of 
the Mediterranean, and the course from Egypt and 
Constantinople to England. Unfortunately, some long 
story was attached to every principal point of the 
voyage. The descriptions most interesting to me were 
those connected with the west bank of the White 
Nile, as he had served for some years with the 
trading party, and had penetrated through the Mak- 
karika, a cannibal tribe, to about two hundred miles 
west of Gondokoro. Both he and many of Ibrahim's 
party had been frequent witnesses to acts of canni¬ 
balism, during their residence among the Makkarikas. 
They described these cannibals as remarkably good 
people, but possessing a peculiar taste for dogs and 
human flesh. They accompanied the trading party in 
their razzias, and invariably ate the bodies of the 
slain. The traders complained that they were bad 
associates, as they insisted upon killing and eating 
the children which the party wished to secure as 
slaves : their custom was to catch a child by its ankles, 
and to dash its head against the ground; thus killed, 
they opened the abdomen, extracted the stomach 
and intestines, and tying the two ankles to the neck, 
they carried the body by slinging it over the shoulder, 
and thus returned to camp, where they divided it by 


298 


MAKKARIKA CANNIBALS. 


[chap. VIII, 


quartering, and boiled it in a large pot. Another man 
in my own service had been a witness to a horrible act 
of cannibalism at Gondokoro. 

The traders had arrived with their ivory from the 
West, together with a great number of slaves; the 
porters who carried the ivory being Makkarikas. One 
of the slave girls attempted to escape, and her 
proprietor immediately fired at her with his musket, 
and she fell wounded; the ball had struck her in the 
side. The girl was remarkably fat, and from the 
wound, a large lump of yellow fat exuded. No sooner 
had she fallen, than the Makkarikas rushed upon her 
in a crowd, and seizing the fat, they tore it from the 
wound in handfuls, the girl being still alive, while the 
crowd were quarrelling for the disgusting prize. Others 
killed her with a lance, and at once divided her by 
cutting off the head, and splitting the body with their 
lances, used as knives, cutting longitudinally from 
between the legs along the spine to the neck. 

Many slave women and their children who witnessed 
this scene, rushed panic-stricken from the spot and 
took refuge in the trees. The Makkarikas seeing them 
in flight, were excited to give chase, and pulling the 
children from their refuge among the branches, they 
killed several, and in a short time a great feast was 
prepared for the whole party. My man, Mahommed, 


CHAP. VIII.] 


MY DAILY EMPLOYMENTS. 


299 


who was an eye-witness, declared that he could not eat 
his dinner for three days, so great was his disgust at 
this horrible feast. 

Although my camp was entirely separate from that 
of Ibrahim, I was dreadfully pestered by his people, 
who, knowing that I was well supplied with many 
articles of which they were in need, came begging to 
my tent from morning till evening daily. To refuse 
was to insult them; and as my chance of success in 
the exploration unfortunately depended upon my not 
offending the traders, I was obliged to be coldly civil, 
and nothing was refused them. Hardly a day passed 
without broken guns being brought to me for repair; 
and having earned an unenviable celebrity as a gun¬ 
smith, added to my possession of the requisite tools, 
I really had no rest, and I was kept almost constantly 
at work. 

One day Ibrahim was seized with a dangerous fever, 
and was supposed to be dying. Again I was in re¬ 
quest ; and seeing that he was in a state of partial 
collapse, attended with the distressing symptoms of 
want of action of the heart, so frequently fatal at this 
stage of the disease, I restored him by a very powerful 
stimulant, and thereby gained renown as a physician, 
that, although useful, was extremely annoying, as my 
tent was daily thronged with patients, all of whom 


300 QUARRELS WITH THE LATO OK AS. [chap. yiii. 

expected miraculous cures for the most incurable 
diseases. 

In this manner I gained a certain influence over the 
people, but I was constantly subjected to excessive 
annoyances and disgust, occasioned by the conduct of 
their party towards the Latookas. The latter were 
extremely unwise, being very independent and ready 
to take offence on the slightest pretext, and the Turks, 
being now 140 strong, had no fear, and there appeared 
every probability of hostilities. I was engaged in 
erecting huts, and in securing my camp ; and although 
I offered high payment, I could not prevail on the 
natives to work regularly. They invariably stipulated 
that they were to receive their beads before they com¬ 
menced work, in which case they, with few exceptions, 
absconded with their advanced payment. 

One day a native behaved in a similar manner to 
the Turks * he was, accordingly, caught, and unmer¬ 
cifully beaten. Half an hour after, the nogara beat, 
and was answered by distant drums from the adjacent 
villages. In about an hour, several thousand armed 
men, with shields, were collected within half a mile of 
the Turks' camp, to avenge the insult that had been 
offered to one of their tribe. However, the Turks' 
drum beat, and their whole force drew up to their flag 
under arms outside their zareeba, and offered a deter- 


chap, yin.] PAULEY WITH LATOOKA CHIEFS . 301 

mined front. I extract the following entry from my 
journal. 44 These Turks are delightful neighbours; 
they will create a row, and I shall be dragged into it 
in self-defence, as the natives will distinguish no dif¬ 
ference in a scrimmage, although they draw favourable 
comparisons between me and the Turks in times of 
peace. Not a native came to work at the huts to-day; 
I therefore sent for the two chiefs, Commoro and Moy, 
and had a long talk with them. They said that 4 no 
Latooka should be beaten by common fellows like the 
traders' men ; that I was a great chief, and that if I 
chose to beat them they would be content.' I gave 
them advice to keep quiet, and not to quarrel about 
trifles, as the Turks would assuredly destroy the 
country should a fight commence. 

44 At the same time, I told them that they did not 
treat me properly : they came to me in times of diffi¬ 
culty as a mediator, but although they knew I had 
always paid well for everything, they gave me no 
supplies, and I was obliged to shoot game for my daily 
food, although they possessed such enormous herds 
of cattle; neither could I procure materials or work¬ 
people to complete my camp. The parley terminated 
with an understanding that they were to supply 
me with everything, and that they would put a stop 
to the intended fight. In the evening a goat was 


302 


THE LATOOKAS SEIZE A GUN. 


[chap. VIII. 


brought, and a number of men appeared with grass 
and wood for sale for hut-building." 

The following day, some of my people went to a 
neighbouring village to purchase corn, but the natives 
insulted them, refusing to sell, saying that " we should 
die of hunger, as no one should either give or sell us 
anything." This conduct must induce hostilities, as the 
Turks are too powerful to be insulted. I am rather 
anxious lest some expedition may entail the departure 
of the entire Turkish party, when the Latookas may 
seize the opportunity of attacking my innocents. The 
latter are now so thoroughly broken to my severe laws, 
"thou shalt not take slaves; neither cattle; nor fire a 
shot unless in self-defence," that they are resigned to 
the ignoble lot of minding the donkeys, and guarding 
the camp. 

Latooka was in a very disturbed state, and the 
excitement of the people was increasing daily. Two 
of my men went into the town to buy grass, and, 
without any provocation, they were surrounded by 
the natives, and the gun of one man was wrested 
from him; the other, after a tussle, in which he 
lost his ramrod, beat a hasty retreat. A number of 
the soldiers immediately collected, and I sent to 
the chief to demand the restoration of the gun, 
which was returned that evening. I could literally 


chap, viii.] HELPLESSNESS IN AN ADVANCE. 


303 


procure nothing without the greatest annoyance and 
trouble. 

My men, by their mutiny and desertion at Gondo- 
koro, had reduced a well-armed expedition to a mere 
remnant, dependent upon the company of a band of 
robbers for the means of advancing through the 
country. Instead of travelling as I had arranged, at 
the head of forty-five well-armed men, I had a miserable 
fifteen cowardly curs, who were employed in driving 
the baggage animals; thus they would be helpless in 
the event of an attack upon the road. I accordingly 
proposed to make a depot at Latooka, and to travel 
with only twelve donkeys and the lightest baggage. 
It was a continual trial of temper and wounded pride. 
To give up the expedition was easy, but to succeed at 
that pe'riod appeared hopeless; and success could only 
be accomplished by the greatest patience, perseverance, 
and most careful tact and management of all parties. 
It was most galling to be a hanger-on to this company 
of traders, who tolerated me for the sake of presents, 
but who hated me in their hearts. 

One afternoon some natives suddenly arrived from a 
country named Obbo with presents from their chief 
for the Turks, and also for me. Ibrahim received several 
tusks, while I received an iron hoe (molote), as the 
news had already extended to that country, " that a 


304 


HOPE TO THE SOUTH. 


[chap. VIII. 


white man was in Latooka, who wanted neither slaves 
nor ivory." The natives reported, that a quantity of 
ivory existed in their country, and Ibrahim determined 
to take a few men and pay it a visit, as the people 
were said to be extremely friendly. I requested the 
leader to point out the exact position of Obbo, which 
I found to be S.W. That was precisely the direction 
that I had wished to take; thus an unexpected oppor¬ 
tunity presented itself, and I determined to start with¬ 
out delay. On the 2d of May, 1863, at 9 A.M., we left 
Latooka, delighted to change the scene of inaction. I 
left five men in charge of my camp and effects, begging 
Commoro the chief to look after their safety, and 
telling him that I had no fear of trusting all to his 
care. Savages will seldom deceive you if thus placed 
upon their honour, this happy fact being one of the 
bright rays in their darkness, and an instance of the 
anomalous character of the African. 

The route lay across the park-like valley of Latooka 
for about eighteen miles, by which time we reached 
the base of the mountain chain. There was no other 
path than the native track, which led over a low range 
of granite rocks, forming a ridge about four hundred 
feet high. It was with the greatest difficulty that the 
loaded donkeys could be hoisted over the numerous 
blocks of granite that formed an irregular flight of 


CHAP. VIII.] 


JOURNEY TO OB BO. 


305 


steps, like the ascent of the great pyramid : however, 
by pulling at their ears, and pushing behind, all except 
one succeeded in gaining the summit; he was aban¬ 
doned on the pass. 

We were now in the heart of the mountains,' and a 
beautiful valley, well wooded and about six miles in 
width, lay before us, forming the basin of the Kanleti 
river that we had formerly crossed at Wakkala, between 
Ellyria and Latooka. 

Fording this stream in a rapid current, we crossed 
with difficulty, the donkeys wetting all their loads. 
This was of no great consequence, as a violent storm 
suddenly overtook us and soaked everyone as thoroughly 
as the donkeys' packs. A few wild plantains afforded 
leaves which we endeavoured to use as screens, but 
the rain drops were far too heavy for such feeble pro¬ 
tection. Within a mile of the river we determined 
to bivouac, as the evening had arrived, and in such 

I 

weather an advance was out of the question. The tent 
having been left at Latooka, there was no help for it, 
and we were obliged to rest contented with our position 
upon about an acre of clean rock plateau, upon which 
we lighted an enormous fire, and crouched shivering 
round the blaze. No grass was cut for the animals, as 
the men had been too busy in collecting firewood suffi¬ 
cient to last throughout the night. Some fowls that 


VOL. i. 


x 


306 


UNCOMFORTABLE NIGHT. 


[chap. vm. 


we had brought from Latooka had been drowned by 
the rain ; thus my Mahommedan followers refused to 
eat them, as their throats had not been cut. Not being 
so scrupulous, and wonderfully hungry in the cold 
rain, Mrs. Baker and I converted them into a stew, 
and then took refuge, wet and miserable, under our 
untanned ox-hides until the following morning. Al¬ 
though an ox-hide is not waterproof, it will keep out a 
considerable amount of wet; but when thoroughly 
saturated, it is about as comfortable as any other wet 
leather, with the additional charm of an exceedingly 
disagreeable raw smell, very attractive to hyenas. The 
night being dark, several men thus lost their leather 
bags that they had left upon the rock. 

At 6 a.m., having passed a most uncomfortable night, 
we started, and after a march of about two miles I was 
made extremely anxious for the donkeys, by being as¬ 
sured that it was necessary to ascend a most precipitous 
granite hill, at least seven hundred feet high, that rose 
exactly before us, and upon the very summit of which 
was perched a large village. There was no help by 
means of porters ; we led our horses with difficulty up 
the steep face of the rock—fortunately they had never 
been shod, thus their firm hoofs obtained a hold where 
an iron shoe would have slipped; and after extreme 
difficulty and a most tedious struggle, we found our 


CHAP. VIII.] 


ENTER THE MOUNTAINS. 


307 


party all assembled on the flat summit. From this 
elevated point we had a superb view of the surrounding 
country, and I took the compass bearing of the Latooka 
mountain Gebel Lafeet, N. 45° E. The natives of the 
village that we had now reached had nothing to sell 
but a few beans, therefore without further delay we 
commenced the descent upon the opposite side, and at 
2.40 p.m. we reached the base, the horses and donkeys 
having scrambled over the great blocks of stone with 
the greatest labour. At the foot of the hill the country 
was park-like and well wooded, although there was no 
very large timber. Here the grass was two feet high 
and growing rapidly, while at Latooka all was barren. 
Halted at 5.20 p.m. on the banks of a small running 
stream, a tributary to the Kanieti. The night being 
fine we slept well; and the next morning at 6 a.m. we 
commenced the most lovely march that I have ever 
made in Africa. Winding through the very bosom of 
the mountains, well covered with forest until the bare 
granite peaks towered above all vegetation to the height 
of about 5,000 feet, we continued through narrow 
valleys bordered by abrupt spurs of the mountains 
from 1,500 to 2,000 feet high. On the peak of each 
was a village; evidently these impregnable positions 
were chosen for security. At length the great ascent 
was to be made, and for two hours we toiled up a steep 

X 2 


308 


BEAUTIFUL SCENEB1. 


[CHAr. .VIII. 


zig-zag pass. The air was most invigoratingbeautiful 
wild floAvers, some of which were highly scented, orna¬ 
mented the route, and innumerable wild grape-vines 
hung in festoons from tree to tree. We were now in 

O 

an elevated country on the range of mountains dividing 
the lower lands of Latooka from the highlands of 
Obbo. We arrived at the summit of the pass about 
2,500 feet above the Latooka valley. In addition to 
the wild flowers were numerous fruits, all good—espe¬ 
cially a variety of custard apple, and a full-flavoured 
yellow plum. The grapes were in most promising 
bunches, but unripe. The scenery was very fine ; to 
the east and south-east, masses of high mountains, 
while to the west and south were vast tracts of park¬ 
like country of intense green. In this elevated region 
the season was much farther advanced than in Latooka; 
—this was the mountain range upon which T had 
formerly observed that the storms had concentrated; 
here the rainy season had been in full play for months, 
while in Latooka everything was parched. The grass 
on the west side of the pass was full six feet high. 
Although the ascent had occupied about two hours, 
the descent on the west side was a mere trifle, and was 
effected in about fifteen minutes—we were on an ele¬ 
vated plateau that formed the watershed between the 
east and west. 


CHAP. VIII.] 


ARRIVE AT OBBO. 


309 


After a march of about twelve miles from the top 
of the pass, we arrived at the chief village of Obbo. 
The rain fell in torrents, and, soaked to the skin, we 
crawled into a dirty hut. This village was forty 
miles S.W. of Tarrangolle, my head-quarters in 
Latooka. 

The natives of Obbo are entirely different to the 
Latookas, both in language and appearance. They 
are not quite naked, except when going to war, on 
which occasion they are painted in stripes of red and 
yellow; but their usual covering is the skin of an 
antelope or goat, slung like a mantle across the 
shoulders. Their faces are well formed, with peculiarly 
fine-shaped noses. The head-dress of the Obbo is 
remarkably neat, the woolly hair being matted and 
worked with thread into a flat form like a beaver's 
tail, and bound with a fine edge of raw hide to keep 
it in shape. This, like the head-dress of Latooka, 
requires many years to complete. 

From Obbo to the S.E. all is mountainous, the 
highest points of the chain rising to an elevation of 
four or five thousand feet above the general level of 
the country ; to the south, although there are no 
actual mountains, but merely a few isolated hills, the 
country distinctly rises. The entire drainage is to the 
west and north-west, in which direction there is a 


310 


NATIVES OF OBBO. 


[chap. yiti. 


very perceptible inclination. The vegetation of Obbo, 
and the whole of the west side of the mountain range, 
is different from that upon the east side; the soil is 
exceedingly rich, producing an abundance of Guinea 
grass, with which the plains are covered. This country 
produces nine varieties of yams, many of which grow 



HEAD-DRESS OF OBBO(l) AND SHOGGO (2). 


wild in the forests. There is one most peculiar species, 
called by the natives " Collolollo," that I had not met 
with in other countries. This variety produces several 
tubers at the root, and also upon the stalk; it does 
not spread upon the ground, like most of the vines 
that characterise the yams, but it climbs upon trees or 
upon any object that may tempt its tendrils. From 
every bud upon the stalk of this vine springs a bulb, 
somewhat kidney-shaped; this increases until, when 
ripe, it attains the average size of a potato. 


CHAP. VIII.] 


BUTTER NUTS AND FRUITS. 


311 


So prolific is this plant, that one vine will produce 
about 150 yams : they are covered with a fine skin of 
a greenish brown, and are in flavour nearly equal to a 
potato, but rather waxy. 

There are many good wild fruits, including one very 
similar to a walnut in its green shell; the flesh of this 
has a remarkably fine flavour, and the nut within 
exactly resembles a horse-chestnut in size and fine 
mahogany colour. This nut is roasted, and, when 
ground and boiled, a species of fat or butter is skimmed 
from the surface of the water : this is much prized by 
the natives, and is used for rubbing their bodies, being 
considered as the best of all fats for the skin; it is 
also eaten. 

Among the best of the wild fruits is one resembling 
raisins; this grows in clusters upon a large tree. Also 
a bright yellow fruit, as large as a Muscat grape, and 
several varieties of plums. None of these are pro¬ 
duced in Latooka. Ground-nuts are also in abundance 
in the forests; these are not like the well-known 
African ground-nut of the west coast, but are con¬ 
tained in an excessively hard shell. A fine quality of 
flax grows wild, but the twine generally used by the 
natives is made from the fibre of a species of aloe. 
Tobacco grows to an extraordinary size, and is pre¬ 
pared similarly to that of the Ellyria tribe. When 


312 


POTTERY AND UTENSILS. 


[ciiap. VIII. 


ripe, the leaves are pounded in a mortar and reduced 
to a pulp; the mass is then placed in a conical mould 
of wood, and pressed. It remains in this until dry, 
when it presents the shape of a loaf of sugar, and is 
perfectly hard. The tobacco of the Ellyria tribe is 
shaped into cheeses, and frequently adulterated with 
cowdung. I had never smoked until my arrival in 
Obbo, but having suffered much from fever, and the 
country being excessively damp, I commenced with 
Obbo pipes and tobacco. 

Every tribe has a distinct pattern of pipe; those 
of the Bari have wide trumpet-shaped mouths; the 
Latookas are long and narrow; and the Obbo smaller 
and the neatest. All their pottery is badly burned, 
and excessively fragile if wet. The water jars are 
well formed, although the potter s wheel is quite un¬ 
known, and the circular form is obtained entirely by 
the hand. Throughout the tribes of the White Nile, 
the articles of pottery are limited to the tobacco-pipe 
and the water-jar: all other utensils are formed either 
of wood, or of gourd shells. 

By observation, I determined the latitude of my camp 
at Obbo to be 4 o, 02'N., Ion. E. 32° 31', and the general 
elevation of the country, 3,674 feet above the sea, the 
temperature about 76° Fahr. The altitude of Latooka 
was 2,236 feet above the sea level : thus we were, at 


chap, viii.] NATURAL FEATURES OF OBBO. 


313 


Obbo, upon an elevated plateau, 1,438 feet above the 
general level of the country on the east of the mountain 
range. The climate would be healthy were the country 
sufficiently populated to war successfully against nature; 
but the rainfall continuing during ten months of the 
year, from February to the end of November, and the 
soil being extremely fertile, the increase of vegetation 
is too rapid, and the scanty population are hemmed in 
and overpowered by superabundant herbage. This 
mass of foliage, and grasses of ten feet in height inter¬ 
woven with creeping plants and wild grape-vines, is 
perfectly impenetrable to man, and forms avast jungle, 
inhabited by elephants, rhinoceros, and buffaloes, whose 
ponderous strength alone can overcome it. There are 
few antelopes, as those animals dislike the grass jungles, 
in which they have no protection against the lion or 
the leopard, as such beasts of prey can approach them 
unseen. In the month of January the grass is suf¬ 
ficiently dry to burn, but even at that period there is 
a quantity of fresh green grass growing between the 
withered stems ; thus the firing of the prairies does 
not absolutely clear the country, but merely consumes 
the dry matter, and leaves a ruin of charred herbage, 
rendered so tough by the burning, that it is quite 
impossible to ride without cutting the skin from the 
horse's shins and shoulders. Altogether, it is a most 


3L4 


KATCHIBA, CHIEF OF OBBO. 


[chap. VIII. 


uninteresting country, as there is no possibility of 
traversing it except by the narrow footpaths made by 
the natives. 

The chief of Obbo came to meet us with several of 
his head men. He was an extraordinary-looking man, 
about fifty-eight or sixty years of age; but, far from 
possessing the dignity usually belonging to a grey 
head, he acted the buffoon for our amusement, and 
might have been a clown in a pantomime. 

The heavy storm having cleared, the nogaras beat, 
and our entertaining friend determined upon a grand 
dance; pipes and flutes were soon heard gathering 
from all quarters, horns brayed, and numbers of men 
and women began to colleet in crowds, while old 
Katchiba, the chief, in a great state of excitement, gave 
orders for the entertainment. 

About a hundred men formed a circle; each man 
held in his left hand a small cup-shaped drum, formed 
of hollowed wood, one end only being perforated, and 
this was covered with the skin of the elephant's ear, 
tightly stretched. In the centre of the circle was the 
chief dancer, who wore, suspended from his shoulders, 
an immense drum, also covered with the elephants 
ear. The dance commenced by all singing remarkably 
well a wild but agreeable tune in chorus, the big 
drum directing the time, and the whole of the little 


chap, viil] ENTERTAINED WITH A DANCE. 


315 


drums striking at certain periods with such admirable 
precision, that the effect was that of a single instru¬ 
ment. The dancing was most vigorous, and far supe¬ 
rior to anything that I had seen among either Arabs 
or savages, the figures varying continually, and ending 
with a " grand galop " in double circles, at a tremen¬ 
dous pace, the inner ring revolving in a contrary 



WOMEN OF OB BO. 


direction to the outer; the effect of this was excellent. 
Although the men of Obbo wear a skin slung across 
their shoulders and loins, the women are almost naked, 










316 


WOMEN OF OBBO. 


[chap. VIII. 


and, instead of wearing the leather apron and tail of 
the Latookas, they are contented with a slight fringe 
of leather shreds, about four inches long by two broad, 
suspended from a belt. The unmarried girls are 
entirely naked; or, if they are sufficiently rich in 
finery, they wear three or four strings of small white 
beads, about three inches in length, as a covering. 
The old ladies are antiquated Eves, whose dress con¬ 
sists of a string round the waist, in which is stuck a 
bunch of green leaves, the stalks uppermost. I have 
seen a few of the young girls that were prudes, indulge 
in such garments; ¦ but they did not appear to be 
fashionable, and were adopted faute de mieux. One 
great advantage was possessed by this costume,—it 
was always clean and fresh, and the nearest bush (if 
not thorny) provided a clean petticoat. When in the 
society of these very simple and in demeanour always 
modest Eves, I could not help reflecting upon the 
Mosaical description of our first parents, " and they 
sewed fig-leaves together." 

Some of the Obbo women were very pretty. The 
caste of feature was entirely different to that of the 
Latookas, and a striking peculiarity was displayed in 
The finely-arched noses of many of the natives, which 
strongly reminded one of the Somauli tribes. It 
was impossible to conjecture their origin, as they 


LANGUAGES OF TRIBES. 


CHAP. VIII.] 


317 


had neither traditions nor ideas of their past 
history. 

The language is that of the Madi. There are 
three distinct languages—the Bari, the Latooka, and 
the Madi. the latter country extending south of Obbo. 
A few of the words, most commonly in use, will 
exemplify them :— 



Obbo. 

Water. 

Fee. 

Fire. 

Mite. 

The Sun. 

T'sean. 

A Cow. 

Deeang. 

A Go,at. 

Deean. 

Milk. 

T'sarck. 

A Fowl. 

Gw6no. 


Latooka. 

Bari. 

Cari. 

Feeum. 

EyemA 

Keemang. 

JNarlong. 

Karlong. 

FTyeten. 

Kittan. 

JSTyene. 

Eddeen. 

EallA 

LA 

Eakome. 

ChokorA 


The Obbo natives were a great and agreeable change 
after the Latookas, as they never asked for presents. 
Although the old chief, Katchiba, behaved more like 
a clown than a king, he was much respected by his 
people. He holds his authority over his subjects as 
general rain-maker and sorcerer. Should a subject 
displease him, or refuse him a gift, he curses his goats 
and fowls, or threatens to wither his crops, and the 
fear of these inflictions reduces the discontented. There 
are no specific taxes, but he occasionally makes a call 
upon the country for a certain number of goats and 
supplies. These are generally given, as Katchiba is 


318 


KAT CHI BA'S DIPLOMACY. 


[chap. VIII. 


a knowing old diplomatist, and he times his demands 
with great judgment. Thus, should there be a lack of 
rain, or too much, at the season for sowing the crops, 
he takes the opportunity of calling his subjects together 
and explaining to them " how much he regrets that 
their conduct has compelled him to afflict them with 
unfavourable weather, but that it is their own fault. 
If they are so greedy and so stingy that they will not 
supply him properly, how can they expect him to 
think of their interests ? He must have goats and 
corn. " No goats, no rain; that's our contract, my 
friends," says Katchiba. " Do as you like. I can 
wait; I hope you can." Should his people complain 
of too much rain, he threatens to pour storms and 
lightning upon them for ever, unless they bring him 
so many hundred baskets of corn, &c. &c. Thus he 
holds his sway. 

No man would think of starting upon a journey 
without the blessing of the old chief; and a peculiar 
" hocus pocus " is considered as necessary from the 
magic hands of Katchiba that shall charm the traveller, 
and preserve him from all danger of wild animals upon 
the road. In case of sickness he is called in, not as 
M.D. in our acceptation, but as " doctor of magic," and 
he charms both the hut and the patient against death, 
with the fluctuating results that must attend profes- 


chap, viii.] KATCHIBA "ALWAYS AT HOME.' 


319 


sionals even in sorcery. His subjects have the most 
thorough confidence in his power ; and so great is his 
reputation that distant tribes frequently consult him, 
and beg his assistance as a magician. In this manner 
does old Katchiba hold his sway over his savage, but 
credulous people; and so long has he imposed upon 
the public that I believe he has at length imposed 
upon himseli, and that he really believes that he has 
the power of sorcery, notwithstanding repeated failures. 
In order to propitiate him, his people frequently pre¬ 
sent him with the prettiest of their daughters; and so 
constantly is he receiving additions to his domestic 
circle that he has been obliged to extend his estab¬ 
lishment to prevent domestic fracas among the ladies. 
He has accordingly hit upon the practical expedient 
of keeping a certain number of wives in each of his 
villages : thus, when he makes a journey through his 
territory, he is always at home. This multiplicity of 
wives has been so successful that Katchiba has one 
hundred and sixteen children living—another proof 
of sorcery in the eyes of his people. One of his wives 
had no children, and she came to me to apply for 
medicine to correct some evil influence that had lowered 
her in her husband's estimation. The poor woman was 
in great distress, and complained that Katchiba was 
very cruel to her because she had been unable to make 


320 


FAMILY GOVERNMENT. 


[chap. VIII* 


an addition to liis family, but that she was sure I 
possessed some charm that would raise her to the 
standard of his other wives. I could not get rid of 
her until I gave her the first pill that came to hand 



katchiba's eldest son. 


from my medicine-chest, and with this she went away 
contented. 

Katchiba was so completely established in his 
country, not only as a magician, but as " pere de 
famille," that every one of his villages was governed 
by one of his sons; thus the entire government was a 
family affair. The sons of course believed in their 



CHAP. VIII.] 


THE GREAT MAGICIAN. 


321 


father's power of sorcery, and their influence as head 
men of their villages increased the prestige of the 
parent. Although without an idea of a Supreme 
Being, the whole country bowed down to sorcery. 
It is a curious distinction between faith and credulity; 
—these savages, utterly devoid of belief in a Deity, 
and without a vestige of superstition, believed most 
devotedly that the general affairs of life and the 
control of the elements were in the hands of their old 
chief, and therefore they served him—not with a feel¬ 
ing of love, neither with a trace of religion, but with 
that material instinct that ahvays influences the 
savage ; they propitiated him for the sake of what 
they could obtain. It is this almost unconquerable 
feeling, ever present in the savage mind, that renders 
his conversion difficult; he will believe in nothing, 
unless he can obtain some specific benefit from the 
object of his belief. 

Savages can be ruled by two powers—" force," and 
" humbug; " accordingly, these are the instruments 
made use of by those in authority : where the " force " 
is wanting, "humbug" is the weapon as a "pis aller." 
Katchiba having no physical force, adopted cunning, 
and the black art controlled the savage minds of his 
subjects. Strange does it appear, that these uncivilized 
inhabitants of Central Africa should, although devoid 

VOL. I. Y 


322 


RECONNAISSANCE TO THE SOUTH. 


[chap. VIII. 


of religion, believe implicitly in sorcery; giving a 
power to man superhuman, although acknowledging 
nothing more than human. 

Practical and useful magic is all that is esteemed by 
the savage, the higher branches would be unappreciated ; 
and spirit-rapping and mediums are reserved for the 
civilized (?) of England, who would convert the black 
savages of Africa. 

Notwithstanding his magic, Katchiba was not a bad 
man: he was remarkably civil, and very proud at my 
having paid him a visit. He gave me much informa¬ 
tion regarding the country, but assured me that I 
should not be able to travel south for many months, 
as it would be quite impossible to cross the Asua river 
during the rainy season; he therefore proposed that I 
should form a camp at Obbo, and reside there until 
the rains should cease. It was now May, thus I was 
invited to postpone my advance south until December. 

I determined to make a reconnaissance south towards 
the dreaded Asua, or, as the Obbo people pronounced 
it, the Achua river, and to return to my fixed camp. 
Accordingly I arranged to leave Mrs. Baker at Obbo 
with a guard of eight men, while I should proceed 
south without baggage, excepting a change of clothes 
and a cooking pot. .Katchiba promised to take the 
greatest care of her, and to supply her with all she 


ciiAr. viii,] 


MRS. BAKER'S DWELLING. 


323 


might require; offering to become personally responsible 
for her safety ; he agreed to place a spell upon the door 
of our hut, that nothing evil should enter it during my 
absence. It was a snug little dwelling, about nine 
feet in diameter, and perfectly round; the floor well 
cemented with cow-dung and clay, and the walls about 
four feet six inches in height, formed of mud and 
sticks, likewise polished off* with cow-dung. The door 
had enlarged, and it was now a very imposing entrance 
of about four feet high, and a great contrast to the 
surrounding hut or dog-kennel with two feet height 
of doorway. 

On the 7th of May I started with three men, and 
taking a course south, I rode through a most lovely 
country, within five miles of the base, and parallel 
with the chain of the Madi mountains. There was 
abundance of beautiful flowers, especially of orchi¬ 
daceous plants ; the country was exceedingly park-like 
and well wooded, but generally overgrown with grass 
then about six feet high. After riding for about four¬ 
teen miles, one of the guides ran back, and reported 
elephants to be on the road a, little in advance. One 
of my mounted men offered to accompany me should 
I wish to hunt them. I had no faith in my man, but 
I rode forward, and shortly observed a herd of ten bull 
elephants standing together about sixty yards from the 

y 2 


324 


AN UPSET. 


[chap. VIII. 


path. The grass was high, but I rode through it to 
within about forty yards before I was observed; they 
immediately dashed away, and I followed for about a 
mile at a trot, the ground being so full of holes and 
covered with fallen trees, concealed in the high grass, 
that I did not like to close until I should arrive in a 
more favourable spot. At length I shot at full gallop 
past an immense fellow, with tusks about five feet pro- 
jecting from his jaws, and reining up, I fired with a 
Keilly No. 10 at the shoulder. He charged straight 
into me at the sound of the shot. My horse, Filfii, 
was utterly unfit for a hunter, as he went perfectly mad 
at the report of a gun fired from his back, and at the 
moment of the discharge he reared perpendicularly ; 
the weight, and the recoil of the rifle, added to the 
sudden rearing of the horse, unseated me, and I fell, 
rifle in hand, backwards over his hind-quarters at the 
moment the elephant rushed in full charge upon the 
horse. Away went " Filfii," leaving me upon the 
ground in a most inglorious position ; and, fortunately, 
the grass being high, the elephant lost sight of me 
and followed the horse instead of giving me his 
attention. 

My horse was lost; my man had never even accom¬ 
panied me, having lagged behind at the very com¬ 
mencement of the hunt. I had lost my rifle in the 


CHAP. VIII.] 


LOSS OF FILFIL 


325 


high grass, as T had been forced to make a short run 
from the spot before I knew that the elephant had fol¬ 
lowed the horse ; thus I was nearly an hour before I 
found it, and also my azimuth compass that had fallen 
from my belt pouch. After much shouting and 
whistling, my mounted man arrived, and making him 
dismount I rode my little horse Mouse, and returned 
to the path. My horse Filfil was lost. As a rule, 
hunting during the march should be avoided, and I 
had now paid dearly for the indiscretion. 

1 reached the Atabbi river about eighteen miles from 
Obbo. This is a fine perennial stream flowing from 
the Madi mountains towards the west, forming an 
affluent of the Asua river. There was a good ford 
with a hard gravel and rocky bottom, over which the 
horse partly waded and occasionally swam. There 
were fresh tracks of immense herds of elephants with 
which the country abounded, and I heard them trum¬ 
peting in the distance. Ascending rising ground in 
perfectly open prairie on the opposite side of the 
Atabbi, I saw a dense herd of about two hundred ele¬ 
phants—they were about a mile distant and were moving 
slowly through the high grass, Just as I was riding 
along the path watching the immense herd, a Tetei 
(hartebeest) sprang from the grass in which he had 
been concealed, and fortunately he galloped across a 


326 


MY BIVOUAC. 


[chap. yiii. 


small open space, where the high grass had been de¬ 
stroyed by the elephants. A quick shot from the little 
Fletcher 24 rifle doubled him up; but, recovering him¬ 
self almost immediately, he was just disappearing? 
when a shot from the left-hand barrel broke his back, 
to the intense delight of my people. We accordingly 
bivouacked for the night, and the fires were soon blazing 
upon a dry plateau of granite rock about seventy feet 
square that I had chosen for a resting place. In the 
saucer-shaped hollows of the rock was good clear water 
from the rain of the preceding day ; thus we had all 
the luxuries that could be desired—fire, food, and 
water. I seldom used a bedstead unless in camp ; thus 
my couch was quickly and simply made upon the hard 
rock, softened by the addition of an armful of green 
boughs, upon which I laid an untanned ox-hide, and 
spread my Scotch plaid. My cap formed my pillow, 
and my handy little Fletcher rifle lay by my side be¬ 
neath the plaid, together with my hunting knife ; these 
faithful friends were never out of reach either by night 
or day. 

The cap was a solid piece of architecture, as may be 
supposed from its strength to resist the weight of the 
head when used as a pillow. It was made by an Arab 
woman in Khartoum, according to my own plan;—the 
substance was about half an inch thick of dome palm 


chap. viii. J CEREMONY OF WELCOME AT FARAL ORE. 32 7 

leaves very neatly twisted and sewn together. Having 
a flat top, and a peak "both before and behind, the whole 
affair was covered with tanned leather, while a curtain 
of the same material protected the back of the neck 
from the sun. A strong chin strap secured the cap 
upon the head, and the " tout ensemble" formed a very 
effective roof, completely sun-proof. Many people 
might have objected to the weight, but I found it no 
disadvantage, and the cap being tolerably waterproof, 
I packed my cartouche pouch and belt within it when 
inverted at night to form a pillow;—this was an ex¬ 
ceedingly practical arrangement, as in case of an alarm 
I rose from my couch armed, capped, and belted at 
a moment's notice. 

On the following morning I started at daybreak, and 
after a march of about thirteen miles through the same 
park-like and uninhabited country as that of the pre¬ 
ceding day, I reached the country of Farajoke, and 
arrived at the foot of a rocky hill, upon the summit of 
which was a large village. I was met by the chief 
and several of his people leading a goat, which was 
presented to me, and killed immediately as an offering, 
close to the feet of my horse. The chief carried a 
fowl, holding it by the legs, with its head downwards; 
he approached my horse, and stroked his fore-feet with 
the fowl, and then made a circle around him by 


328 ELEVATED COUNTRY AT FARAJOKE [chap. yiii. 

dragging it upon the ground; my feet were then 
stroked with the fowl in the same manner as those 
of the horse, and I was requested to stoop, so as to 
enable him to wave the bird around my head; this 
completed, it was also waved round my horse's head, 
who showed his appreciation of the ceremony by 
rearing and lashing out behind, to the great discom¬ 
fiture of the natives. The fowl did not appear to have 
enjoyed itself during the operation ; but the knife put 
an end to its troubles, as the ceremony of welcome 
being completed, the bird was sacrificed and handed to 
my headman. I was now conducted to the village, 
It was defended by a high bamboo fence, and was 
miserably dirty, forming a great contrast to the clean 
dwellings of the Bari and Latooka tribes. The hill 
upon which the village was built was about eighty feet 
above the general level of the country, and afforded a 
fine view of the surrounding landscape. On the east 
was the chain of Madi mountains, the base well wooded, 
while to the south all was fine open pasturage of sweet 
herbage, about a foot high, a totally different grass to 
the rank vegetation we had passed through. The 
country was undulating, and every rise was crowned 
by a village. Although the name of the district is 
Farajoke, it is comprised in the extensive country 
of Sooli, together with the Shoggo and Madi 


CHAP. VIII.] 


STOPPED BY TUB ASUA. 


329 


tribes, all towns being under the command of petty 
chiefs. 

The general elevation of the country was 3,966 
feet above the sea-level, 292 feet higher than 
Obbo. 

The chief of Farajoke, observing me engaged in 
taking bearings with the compass, was anxious to 
know my object, which being explained, he volun¬ 
teered all information respecting the country, and 
assured me that it would be quite impossible to cross 
the Asua during the rainy season, as it was a violent 
torrent, rushing over a rocky bed with such impe¬ 
tuosity, that no one would venture to swim it. There 
was nothing to be done at this season, and however 
trying to the patience, there was no alternative* 

Farajoke was within three days' hard marching of 
Faloro, the station of Debono, that had always been 
my projected head-quarters; thus I was well advanced 
upon my intended route, and had the season been 
propitious, I could have proceeded with my baggage 
animals without difficulty. 

The loss of my horse " Filffi " was a severe blow in 
this wild region, where beasts of burthen were un¬ 
known, and I had slight hopes of his recovery, as lions 
were plentiful in the country between Obbo and 
Farajoke ; however, I offered a reward of beads and 


330 


RETURN TO OBBO. 


[chap. VIII. 


bracelets, and a number of natives were sent by the 
chief to scour the jungles. 

There was little use in remaining at Farajoke, there¬ 
fore T returned to Obbo with my men and donkeys, 
accomplishing the whole distance (thirty miles) in one 
day. 

I was very anxious about Mrs. Baker, who had been 
the representative of the expedition at Obbo during 
my absence. 

Upon my approach through the forest, my well- 
known whistle was immediately answered by the 
appearance of the boy Saat, who, without any greeting, 
immediately rushed to the hut to give the intelligence 
that " Master was arrived/' 

I found my wife looking remarkably well, and regu¬ 
larly installed " at home/' Several fat sheep were tied 
by the legs to pegs in front of the hut; a number of 
fowls were pecking around the entrance, and my wife 
awaited me on the threshold with a large pumpkin 
shell containing about a gallon of native beer. " Dulce 
domum," although but a mud hut, the loving welcome 
made it happier than a palace; and that draught of 
beer, or fermented mud, or whatever trash it might be 
compared with in England, how delicious it seemed 
after a journey of thirty miles in the broiling sun! 
and the fat sheep and the fowls all looked so luxurious. 


CHAP, VIII.] 


GALLANTRY OF KATCHIBA. 


331 


Alas !—for destiny—my arrival cut short the existence 
of one being; what was joy to some was death to a 
sheep, and in a few moments the fattest was slain in 
honour of masters return, and my men were busily 
employed in preparing it for a general feast. 

Numbers of people gathered round me; foremost 
among them was the old chief Katchiba, whose self- 
satisfied countenance exhibited an extreme purity of 
conscience in having adhered to his promise to act as 
guardian during my absence. Mrs. Baker gave him 
an excellent character; he had taken the greatest care 
of her, and had supplied all the luxuries that had so 
much excited my appetite on the first coup cTceil of my 
home. He had been so mindful of his responsibility, 
that he had placed some of his own sons as sentries 
over the hut both by day and night. 

I accordingly made him a present of many beads 
and bracelets, and a few odds and ends, that threw him 
into ecstacies : he had weak eyes, and the most valued 
present was a pair of sun-goggles, which I fitted on his 
head, to his intense delight, and exhibited in a looking- 
glass—this being likewise added to his gifts. I noticed 
that he was very stiff in the back, and he told me that 
he had had a bad fall during my absence. My wife 
explained the affair. He had come to her to declare 
his''intention of procuring fowls for her from some 


332 KATGHIBA DETERMINES TO RIDE . [chap. viii. 

distant village; but, said lie, " My people are not very 
good, and perhaps they will say that they have none ; 
but if you will lend me a horse, I will ride there, and 
the effect will impose upon them so much, that they 
will not dare to refuse me." Now, Katchiba was not a 
good walker, and his usual way of travelling was upon 
the back of a very strong subject, precisely as children 
are wont to ride " pic-a-back. v He generally had two 
or three spare men, who alternately acted as guides 
and ponies, while one of his wives invariably accom¬ 
panied him, bearing a large jar of beer, with which it 
was said that the old chief refreshed himself so copiously 
during the journey, that it sometimes became necessary 
for two men to carry him instead of one. This may 
have been merely a scandalous report in Obbo ; how¬ 
ever, it appeared that Katchiba was ready for a start, 
as usual accompanied by a Hebe with a jar of beer. 
Confident in his powers as a rider across country on a 
man, he considered that he could easily ride a horse. 
It was in vain that my wife had protested, and had 
prophesied a broken neck should he attempt to bestride 
the hitherto unknown animal; to ride he was deter- 
mined. 

Accordingly my horse Tetel was brought, and 
Katchiba was assisted upon his back. The horse 
recognising an awkward hand, did not move a step. 


chap, vni.] FIRST ATTEMPTS AT HORSEMANSHIP . 


333 


" Now then/' said Katchiba, " go on! " but Tetel, not 
understanding the Obbo language, was perfectly igno¬ 
rant of his rider's wishes. " Why won't he go ? " 



KATCHIBA AND HIS HEBE ON A JOURNEY. 

inquired Katchiba. " Touch him with your stick," 
cried one of my men ; and acting upon the suggestion, 
the old sorcerer gave him a tremendous whack with 
his staff. This was immediately responded to by Tetel, 
who, quite unused to such eccentricities, gave a vigorous 
kick, the effect of which was to convert the sorcerer 
into a spread eagle, flying over his head, and landing 


334 


RECOVER THE LOST HORSE. 


[chap. viti. 


very heavily upon the ground, amidst a roar of laughter 
from my men, in which I am afraid Mrs. Baker was 
rude enough to join. The crest-fallen Katchiba was 
assisted upon his legs, and feeling rather stunned, he 
surveyed the horse with great astonishment; but his 
natural instincts soon prompted him to call for the jar 
of beer, and after a long draught from the mighty 
cup, he regained his courage, and expressed an opinion 
that the horse was " too high, as it was a long way to 
tumble down;" he therefore requested one of the 
" little horses these were the donkeys. Accordingly 
he was mounted on a donkey, and held on by two men, 
one on either side. Thus he started most satisfactorily 
and exceedingly proud. 

On his return the following day, he said that the 
villagers had given him the fowls immediately, as he 
had told them that he had thirty Turks staying 
with him on a visit, and that they would burn and 
plunder the country unless they were immediately 
supplied. He considered this trifling deviation from 
fact as a great stroke of diplomacy in procuring the 
fowls. 

Six days after the loss of my horse, I was delighted 
to see him brought back by the natives safe and well. 
They had hunted through an immense tract of country, 
and had found him grazing. He was naturally a most 


chap, yin,] CEREMONY AT PARTING WITH KATCHIBA . 335 

vicious horse, and the natives were afraid to touch 
him ; they had accordingly driven him before them 
until they gained the path, which he then gladly 
followed. The saddle was in its place, but my sword 
was gone. 

The rains were terrific; the mornings were invari¬ 
ably fine, but the clouds gathered upon the mountains 
soon after noon and ended daily in a perfect deluge. 
Not being able to proceed south, I determined to 
return to my head-quarters at Latooka, and to wait 
for the dry season. I had made the reconnaissance to 
Farajoke, in latitude 3° 32", and I saw my way clear 
for the future, provided my animals should remain in 
good condition. Accordingly, on the 21st of May, we 
started for Latooka in company with Ibrahim and his 
men, who were thoroughly sick of the Obbo climate. 

Before parting, a ceremony had to be performed by 
Katchiba. His brother was to be our guide, and he 
was to receive power to control the elements as deputy- 
magician during the journey, lest we should be wetted 
by the storms, and the torrents should be so swollen 
as to be impassable. 

With great solemnity Katchiba broke a branch from 
a tree, upon the leaves of which he spat in several 
places. This branch, thus blessed with holy water, 
was laid upon the ground, and a fowl was dragged 


338 


RETURN TO LATOOKA. 


[chap. viii. 


around it by the chief; and our horses were then 
operated on precisely in the same manner as had been 
enacted at Farajoke. This ceremony completed, he 
handed the branch to his brother (our guide), who 
received it with much gravity, in addition to a magic 
whistle of antelope's horn that he suspended from his 
neck. All the natives wore whistles similar in appear¬ 
ance, being simply small horns in which they blew, 
the sound of which was considered either to attract 
or to drive away rain, at the option of the whistler. 
No whistle was supposed to be effective unless it had 
been blessed by the great magician Katchiba. The 
ceremony being over, all commenced whistling with 
all their might; and taking leave of Katchiba, with an 
assurance that we should again return, we started 
amidst a din of "toot too too-ing" upon our journey. 
Having an immense supply of ammunition at Latooka, 
I left about 200 lbs. of shot and ball with Katchiba; 
therefore my donkeys had but little to carry, and we 
travelled, easily. 

That night we bivouacked at the foot of the east- 
side of the pass at about half-past five. Ibrahimawa, 
the Bornu man whom I have already described as 
the amateur botanist, had become my great ally in 
searching for all that was curious and interesting. 
Proud of his knowledge of wild plants, no sooner 


.chap, viii.] DISCOVERY OF SUPPOSED YAMS. S37 

was the march ended than he commenced a search 
in the jungles for something esculent. We were 
in a deep gorge on a steep knoll bounded by a 
ravine about sixty feet of perpendicular depth, at the 
bottom of which flowed a torrent. This was an excel¬ 
lent spot for a camp, as no guards were necessary upon 
the side thus protected. Bordering the ravine were 
a number of fine trees covered with a thorny stem 
creeper, with leaves much resembling those of a species 
of yam. These were at once pronounced by Ibrahimawa 
to be a perfect god-send, and after a few minutes' 
grubbing he produced a basketful of fine-looking yams. 
In an instant this display of food attracted a crowd of 
hungry people, including those of Ibrahim and my own 
men, who, not being botanists, had left the search for 
food to Ibrahimawa, but who determined to share the 
tempting results. A rush was made at his basket, 
which was emptied on the instant; and I am sorry to 
confess that the black angel Saat was one of the first 
to seize three or four of the largest yams, which he 
most unceremoniously put in a pot and deliberately 
cooked them as though he had been the botanical 
discoverer. How often the original discoverer suffers, 
while others benefit from his labours ! Ibrahimawa, 
the scientific botanist, was left without a yam, after all 
his labour of grubbing up a basketful. Pots were 
VOL. i. z 


BEWARE OF BOTANISTS! 


[chap. VIII. 


boiling in all directions, and a feast in store for the 
hungry men who had inarched twenty miles without 
eating since the morning. The yams were cooked ; 
but I did not like the look of them, and seeing that 
the multitude were ready, I determined to reserve a 
few for our own eating should they be generally pro¬ 
nounced good. The men ate them voraciously. Hardly 
ten minutes had elapsed from the commencement of 
the feast when first one and then another disappeared, 
and from a distance I heard a smothered but unmistake- 
able sound, that reminded me of the lurching effect of a 
channel steamer upon a crowd of passengers. Pre¬ 
sently the boy Saat showed symptoms of distress, and 
vanished from our presence ; and all those that had 
dined off Ibrahimawa s botanical specimens were suffer¬ 
ing from a most powerful " vomi-purgatif." The angels 
that watch over scientific botanists had preserved Ibra¬ 
himawa from all evil. He had discovered the yams, 
and the men had stolen them from him ; they enjoyed 
the fruits, while he gained an experience invaluable at 
their expense. I was quite contented to have waited 
until others had tried them before I made the experi¬ 
ment. Many of the yam tribe are poisonous; there 
is one variety much liked at Obbo, but which is deadly 
in its effects should it be eaten without a certain pre¬ 
paration. It is first scraped, and then soaked in a 


CHAP. VIII.] 


BABOONS. 


339 


running stream for a fortnight. It is then cut into 
thin slices, and dried in the sun until quite crisp ; by 
this means it is rendered harmless. The dried slices 
are stored for use; and they are generally pounded in 
a mortar into flour, and used as a kind of porridge. 

The sickness of the people continued for about an 
hour, during which time all kinds of invectives were 
hurled against Ibrahimawa, and his botany was termed 
a gigantic humbug. From that day he was very mild 
in his botanical conversation. 

On the following morning we crossed the last range 
of rocky hills, and descended to the Latooka valley. 
Up to this point, we had seen no game; but we had 
now arrived in the game country, and shortly after 
our descent from the rocks, we saw a herd of about 
twenty Tetel (hartebeest). Unfortunately, just as I 
dismounted for the purpose of stalking them, the red 
flags of the Turks attracted the attention of a large 
party of baboons, who were sitting on the rocks, and 
they commenced their hoarse cry of alarm, and imme¬ 
diately disturbed the Tetel. One of the men, in re¬ 
venge, fired a long shot at a great male, who was 
sitting alone upon a high rock, and by chance the ball 
struck him in the head. He was an immense specimen 
of the Cynocephalus, about as large as a mastiff, but 
with a long brown mane like that of the lion. This 

z 2 


340 


THE MAHARIF ANTELOPE. 


[chap. VIII. 


mane is much prized by the natives as an ornament, 
He was immediately skinned, and the hide was cut 
into long strips about three inches broad; the portion 
of mane adhering had the appearance of a fringe ; each 
strip was worn as a scarf; thus one skin will produce 
about eight or ten ornaments. 

I sent my men to camp, and, accompanied by 
Richarn, mounted on my horse " Mouse," I rode 
through the park-like ground in quest of game. I saw 
varieties of antelopes, including the rare and beautiful 
maharif; but all were so wild, and the ground so open, 
that I could not get a shot. This was the more annoy¬ 
ing, as the maharif was an antelope that I believed to 
be a new species. It had often disappointed me; for 
although I had frequently seen them on the south-west 
frontier of Abyssinia, I had never been able to procure 
one, owing to their extreme shyness, and to the fact of 
their inhabiting open plains, where stalking was impos¬ 
sible. I had frequently examined them with a tele¬ 
scope, and had thus formed an intimate acquaintance 
with their peculiarities. The maharif is very similar 
to the roan antelope of South Africa, but is mouse 
colour, with black and white stripes upon the face. 
The horns are exactly those of the roan antelope, very 
massive and corrugated, bending backwards to the 
shoulders. The withers are extremely high, which give 





OVERHAULING THE GIRAFFES. 










































































































































































































































































CHAP. VIII.] 


TEE GIRAFFE ; 


34 i 


a peculiarly heavy appearance to the shoulders, much 
heightened by a large and stiff black mane like that of 
a hog-maned horse. I have a pair of horns in my 
possession that I obtained through the assistance of a 
lion, who killed the maharif while drinking near my 
tent * unfortunately, the skin was torn to pieces, and 
the horns and skull were all that remained. 

Failing, as usual, in my endeavours to obtain a shot, 
I made a considerable circuit, and shortly observed the 
tall heads of giraffes towering over the low mimosas. 
There is no animal in nature so picturesque in his 
native haunts as the giraffe. His food consists of the 
leaves of trees, some qualities forming special attrac¬ 
tions, especially the varieties of the mimosa, which, 
being low, permit an extensive view to his telescopic 
eyes. He has a great objection to high forests. The 
immense height of the giraffe gives him a peculiar 
advantage, as he can command an extraordinary range 
of vision, and thereby be warned against the approach 
of his two great enemies, man and the lion. No animal 
is more difficult to stalk than the giraffe, and the most 
certain method of hunting is that pursued by the Hamran 
Arabs, On the frontiers of Abyssinia, who ride him down 
and hamstring him with the broadsword at full gallop. 
A good horse is required, as, although the gait of a 
giraffe appears excessively awkward from the fact of 


342 


HUNTING GIRAFFES ,. 


[chap. VIII. 


his moving the fore and hind legs of one side simul¬ 
taneously, he attains a great pace, owing to the length 
of his stride, and his bounding trot is more than a 
match for any but a superior horse. 

The hoof is as beautifully proportioned as that of 
the smallest gazelle, and his lengthy legs and short 
back give him every advantage for speed and en¬ 
durance. There is a rule to be observed in hunting 
the giraffe on horseback: the instant he starts, he 
must be pressed—it is the speed that tells upon him, 
and the spurs must be at work at the very commence¬ 
ment of the hunt, and the horse pressed along at his 
best pace; it must be a race at top speed from the 
start, but, should the giraffe be allowed the slightest 
advantage for the first five minutes, the race will be 
against the horse. 

I was riding " Filfil," my best horse for speed, but 
utterly useless for the gun. I had a common regulation 
sword hanging on my saddle in lieu of the long Arab 
broadsword that I had lost at Obbo, and starting at 
full gallop at the same instant as the giraffes, away we 
went over the beautiful park. Unfortunately fiicharn 
was a bad rider, and I, being encumbered with a rifle, 
had no power to use the sword. I accordingly trusted 
to ride them down and to get a shot, but I felt that 
the unsteadiness of my horse would render it very 


CHAP. VIII.] 


UNSUCCESSFUL HUNT. 


343 


uncertain. The wind whistled in my ears as we flew 
along over the open plain. The grass was not more 
than a foot high, and the ground hard;—the giraffes 
about four hundred yards distant steaming along, and 
raising a cloud of dust from the dry earth, as on this 
side of the mountains there had been no rain. Filfil 
was a contradiction; he loved a hunt and had no fear 
of wild animals, but he went mad at the sound of a 
gun. Seeing the magnificent herd of about fifteen 
giraffes before him, the horse entered into the excite¬ 
ment and needed no spur—down a slight hollow, flying 
over the dry buffalo holes, now over a dry watercourse 
and up the incline on the other side—then again on 
the ievel, and the dust in my eyes from the cloud 
raised by the giraffes showed that we were gaining in 
the race; misericordia !—low jungle lay before us—the 
giraffes gained it, and spurring forward through a 
perfect cloud of dust now within a hundred yards of 
the game we shot through the thorny bushes. In 
another minute or two I was close up, and a splendid 
bull giraffe was crashing before me like a locomotive 
obelisk through the mimosas, bending the elastic boughs 
before him in his irresistible rush, which sprang back 
with a force that would have upset both horse and 
rider had I not carefully kept my distance. The jungle 
seemed alive with the crowd of orange red, the herd 


344 


BENIGHTED. 


[chap. VIII. 


was now on every side, as I pressed the great bull 
before me. Oh for an open plain ! I was helpless to 
attack, and it required the greatest attention to keep 
up the pace through the thick mimosas without dashing 
against their stems and branches. The jungle became 
thicker, and although I was in the middle of the herd 
and within ten yards of several giraffes, I could do 
nothing. A mass of thick and tangled thorns now re¬ 
ceived them, and closed over the hardly contested race 
—I was beaten. 

Never mind, it was a good hunt—first-rate—but 
where was my camp ? It was nearly dark, and I could 
just distinguish the pass in the distance, by which we 
had descended the mountain; thus I knew the direction, 
but I had ridden about three miles, and it would be 
dark before I could return. However, I followed the 
heel tracks of the herd of giraffes. Hicham was no¬ 
where. Although I had lost the race, and was dis¬ 
appointed, I now consoled myself that it was all for the 
best; had I killed a giraffe at that hour and distance 
from camp, what good would it have been ? I was 
quite alone, thus who could have found it during 
the night ? and before morning it would have been 
devoured by lions and hyenas;—inoffensive and 
beautiful creatures, what a sin it appeared to destroy 
them uselessly! With these consoling and practical 


CHAP. VIII.] 


REGAIN THE PARTY. 


345 


reflections I continued my way, until a branch of 
hooked thorn fixing in my nose disturbed the train of 
ideas and persuaded me that it was very dark, and that 
I had lost my way, as I could no longer distinguish 
either the tracks of the giraffes or the position of the 
mountains. Accordingly I fired my rifle as a signal, 
and soon after I heard a distant report in reply, and 
the blaze of a fire shot up suddenly in the distance on 
the side of the mountain. With the help of this beacon 
I reached the spot where our people were bivouacked ; 
they had lighted the beacon on a rock about fifty feet 
above the level, as although some twenty or thirty fires 
were blazing, they had been obscured by the intervening 
jungle. I found both my wife and my men in an 
argumentative state as to the propriety of my remain¬ 
ing alone so late in the jungle; however, I also found 
dinner ready ; the angareps (stretcher bedsteads) 
arranged by a most comfortable blazing fire, and a 
glance at the star-lit heavens assured me of a fine 
night—what more can man wish for ?—wife, welcome, 
food, fire, and fine weather ? 

The bivouac in the wilderness has many charms; 
there is a complete independence—the sentries are 
posted, the animals picketed and fed, and the fires 
arranged in a complete circle around the entire party—• 
men, animals, and luggage all within the fiery ring; 


346 BREAD-BAKING ON THE MARCH . [chap. viii. 

the sentries alone being on the outside. There,, is a 
species of ironwood that is very inflammable, and 
being oily, it burns like a torch; this grew in great 
quantities, and the numerous fires fed with this vigo¬ 
rous fuel enlivened the bivouac with a continual blaze. 
My men were busy, baking their bread. On such 
occasions an oven is dispensed with. A prodigious fire 
is made while the dough is being prepared; this, when 
well moistened, is formed into a cake about two feet in 
diameter, but not thicker than two inches. The fire 
being in a fit state of glowing ash, a large hole is 
scraped in the centre, in which the flat cake is laid, and 
the red-hot embers are raked over it; thus buried it 
will bake in about twenty minutes, but the dough must 
be exceedingly moist or it will burn to a cinder. 

On the following day we arrived at Latooka, where I 
found everything in good order at the depot, and the 
European vegetables that I had sown were all above 
ground. Commoro and a number of people came to 
meet us. 

There had been but little rain at Latooka since we 
left, although it had been raining heavily at Obbo 
daily, and there was no difference in the dry sandy 
plain that surrounded the town, neither was there any 
pasturage for the animals except at a great distance. 

The day after my arrival, Filfil was taken ill and 


CHAP. VIII.] 


SICKNESS—SMALL-POX, 


347 


died in a few hours. Tetel had been out of condition 
ever since the day of his failure during the elephant 
hunt, and he now refused his food. Sickness rapidly 
spread through my animals; five donkeys died within 
a few days, and the remainder looked poor. Two of 
my camels died suddenly, having eaten the poison 
bush. Within a few days of this disaster my good 
old hunter and companion of all my former sports in 
the Base country, Tetel, died. These terrible blows 
to my expedition were most satisfactory to the La- 
tookas, who ate the donkeys and other animals the 
moment they died. It was a race between the natives 
and the vultures as to who should be first to profit by 
my losses. . 

Not only were the animals sick, but my wife was 
laid up with a violent attack of gastric fever, and I 
was also suffering from daily attacks of ague. The 
small-pox broke out among the Turks. Several people 
died; and, to make matters worse, they insisted upon 
inoculating themselves and all their slaves; thus the 
whole camp was reeking with this horrible disease. 

Fortunately my camp was separate and to wind¬ 
ward. I strictly forbade my men to inoculate them¬ 
selves, and no case of the disease occurred among my 
people, but it spread throughout the country. Small¬ 
pox is a scourge among the tribes of Central Africa, 


348 


WANT, THE INTERPRETER . 


[chap. VIII. 


and it occasionally sweeps through the country and 
decimates the population. 

Among the natives of Obbo, who had accompanied 
us to Latooka, was a man named Want, who had 
formerly travelled far to the south, and had offered 
to conduct Ibrahim to a country rich in ivory that 
had never been visited by a trader : this man had 
accordingly been engaged as guide and interpreter. 
In an examination of Wani I discovered that the 
cowrie-shells were brought from a place called " Ma- 
gungo." This name I had previously heard mentioned 
by the natives, but I could obtain no clue to its posi¬ 
tion. It was most important that I should discover 
the exact route by which the cowries arrived from the 
south, as it would be my guide to that direction. The 
information that I received from Wani at Latooka was 
excessively vague, and upon most sl ender data I founded 
iny conclusions so carefully that my subsequent dis¬ 
coveries have rendered most interesting the first scent 
of the position which I eventually followed with success. 

I accordingly extract, verbatim ,, from my journal the 
note written by me at Latooka on 26th of May, 1863, 
when I first received the clue to the Albert Nyanza :— 
"I have had a long examination of Wani, the guide 
and interpreter, respecting the country of Magungo. 
Loggo, the Bari interpreter, has always described Ma- 


CHAP. VIII.] 


FIRST CLUE TO THE LAKE . 


349 


gungo as being on a large river, and I have concluded 
that it must be the Asua ; but, upon cross-examination, 
I find he has used the word ' JBahr * (in Arabic signi¬ 
fying river or sea) instead of ' Birke ? (lake). This 
important error being discovered gives a new feature 
to the geography of this part. According to his descrip¬ 
tion, Magungo is situated on a lake so large that no 
one knows its limits. Its breadth is such that, if you 
journey two days east and the same distance west, 
there is no land visible in either quarter, while to the 
south its direction is utterly unknown. Large vessels 
arrive at Magungo from distant and unknown parts, 
bringing cowrie-shells and beads in exchange for ivory. 
Upon these vessels white men have been seen. All the 
cowrie-shells used in Latooka and the neighbouring 
countries are supplied by these vessels, but none have 
arrived for the last two years. 

"His description of distance places Magungo on 
about the 2° N. lat. The lake can be no other than 
the 'N'yanza/ which, if the position of Magungo be 
correct, extends much farther north than Speke had 
supposed. The ' white men , must be Arab traders 
who bring cowries from Zanzibar. I shall take the 
first opportunity to push for Magungo. I imagine 
that country belongs to Kamrasi's brother, as Wani 
says the king has a brother who is king of a powerful 


350 


BROWN MEN ARE CALLED WHITE. [chap. viii. 


country on the west bank of the Nile, but that they 
are ever at war with each other. 

"J examined another native who had been to Ma- 
gungo to purchase Simbi (the cowrie-shell); he says 
that a white man formerly arrived there annually, 
and brought a donkey with him in a boat; that he 
disembarked his donkey and rode about the country, 
dealing with the natives, and bartering cowries and 
brass-coil bracelets. This man had no firearms, but 
wore a sword. The king of Magungo was called 
' Cherrybambi/ " 

This information was the first clue to the facts that 
I subsequently established, and the account of the 
white men (Arabs) arriving at Magungo was confirmed 
by the people of that country twelve months after I 
obtained this vague information at Latooka. 

Arabs, being simply brown, are called white men 
by the blacks of these countries. I was called a very 
white man as a distinction, but I have frequently been 
obliged to take off my shirt to exhibit the difference 
of colour between myself and my men, as my face was 
brown. 









SKIRMISH WITH THE NATIVES. 
























































































































































CHAPTER IX. 


THE TURKS ATTACK KAYALA. 

Ok the 30th May, about an hour before daybreak, 
I was awoke by a rattle of musketry, which continued 
sometimes in irregular volleys, and subsided into a 
well-sustained and steady fire in single shots. On 
leaving my hut, I found the camp of Koorshid's people 
almost empty, while my own men were climbing on 
the roofs of their huts to obtain a view towards the 
west. Nothing was in sight, although the firing still 
continued at a distance of about a mile, apparently 
on the other side of a belt of trees. I now heard that 
Koorshid's people had started at between three and four 
o'clock that morning, by Commoro's request, to attack a 
neighbouring town that had been somewhat rebellious. 
The firing continued for about two hours, when it sud¬ 
denly ceased, and I shortly saw with a telescope the 
Turks' red ensign emerge from the forest, and we heard 


352 THE "PLEASANT ROBBER » KILLED . [chap. ix. 

the roll of their drum, mingled with,the lowing of 
oxen and the bleating of sheep. Upon nearer approach, 
I remarked a considerable body of men, and a large 
herd of cattle and sheep driven by a number of 
Latookas, while a knot of Turks carried something 
heavy in their arms. They soon arrived, with about 
2,000 head of cattle and sheep; but they had lost one 
of their men, killed in the fight, and his body they 
carried home for interment. It happened to be about 
the best man of the party; really a very civil fellow, 
and altogether rather a pleasant robber. At Com- 
moro's instigation, the Turks had attacked the town of 
Kay ala; but the Latookas had fought so well, that the 
Turks found it impossible to capture the town, which 
was, as usual, protected by iron-wood palisades, upon 
which their bullets harmlessly flattened. Not only 
the Latooka men had fought well, but their women 
broke up their grinding-stones and defended the 
entrance by pelting their assailants with the frag¬ 
ments ; several of the Turks were wounded by the 
stones thrown with such force by these brawny Ama¬ 
zons that some of the gun-barrels were indented. 
Many of these brave women had been shot by the 
dastardly Turks, and one was in the act of being 
carried off by the " pleasant robber," when a native, 
running to her rescue, drove his spear through his 


CHAP. IX.] 


DIVISION OF THE SPOIL. 


353 


chest and killed him on the spot. Unfortunately for 
the Latookas, some of their cattle had left the town to 
pasture just before the attack took place; these were 
captured by the Turks, but not one hostile foot had 
been able to penetrate their town. 

On the following day the party were busily engaged 
in dividing the spoil, one third belonging to the men as 
a bonus, while the remainder were the property of the 
traders' establishment, or " Meri" (government), as they 
term the proprietor. This portion was to be sent to 
Obbo as a place of security and good pasturage, and 
the men were to engage in other razzias in Latooka, 
and to collect a large number of cattle to be driven 
south to exchange for ivory. Koorshid s camp was a 
scene of continual uproar, the men quarrelling over 
the division of the spoil. 

Journal—June 2d .—"The Turks are now busy 
buying and selling, each man disposing of his share of 
the stolen cattle according to his wants : one exchanges 
a cow to the natives for corn and meat; another 
slaughters an ox, and retails small portions for merissa 
(beer), fowls, &c., the natives flocking to the camp like 
vultures scenting flesh; others reserve their cattle for 
the purpose of purchasing the daughters of the natives 
for slaves under the name of wives, whom they will 
eventually sell in Khartoum for from twenty to thirty 


VOL. I. 


A A 


354 DISCORD AMONG THE NATIVES. [chap. ix. 

dollars each. My men look on in dismay at the hap¬ 
piness of their neighbours : like 

" A Peri weeping at the gate 
Of Eden, stood disconsolate/' 

so may they be seen regarding the adjoining paradise, 
where meat is in profusion, sweetened by being stolen ; 
but, alas! their cruel master does not permit them 
these innocent enjoyments. 

Everything may be obtained for cattle as payment 
in this country. The natives are now hard at work 
making zareebas (kraals) for the cattle stolen from their 
own tribe and immediate neighbours, for the sake of 
two or three bullocks as remuneration to be divided 
among more than a hundred men. They are not de¬ 
serving of sympathy; they are worse than vultures, 
being devoid of harmony even in the same tribe. The 
chiefs have no real control; and a small district, con¬ 
taining four or five towns, club together and pillage the 
neighbouring province. It is not surprising that the 
robber traders of the Nile turn this spirit of discord to 
their own advantage, and league themselves with one 
chief to rob another, whom they eventually plunder in 
his turn. The natives say that sixty-five men and 
women were killed in the attack upon Kayala. All 
the Latookas consider it a great disgrace that the 


chap, ix.] THE LIFE OF WOMEN SPARED IN WAR. 


355 


Turks fired upon women. Among all tribes, from 
Gondokoro to Obbo, a woman is respected, even in 
time of war. Thus, they are employed as spies, and 
become exceedingly dangerous; nevertheless, there is 
a general understanding that no woman shall be killed. 
The origin of this humane distinction arises, I imagine, 
from their scarcity. Where polygamy is in force, women 
should be too dear to kill; the price of a girl being 
from five to ten cows, her death is equal to the actual 
loss of that number. 

Fortunately for my party, who were not cattle lifters, 
there was the usual abundance of game, and I could 
always supply myself and people with delicious wild 
ducks and geese. We never were tired of this light 
food, as we varied their preparation. Sometimes I 
was able to procure a goat, on which occasion a grand 
dish was made, the paunch being arranged as a Scotch 
" haggis " of wild fowls' livers and flesh minced, with 
the usual additions. My garden was flourishing ; we 
had onions, beans, melons, yams, lettuce, and radishes, 
which had quickly responded to several invigorating 
showers; the temperature was 85° in the shade during 
the hottest hours of the day, and 72° at night. 

Salt is not procurable in Latooka; the natives 
seldom use it, as it is excessively difficult to make it 
in any quantity from the only two sources that will 

A A 2 


356 SCARCITY OF SALT AMONG THE LATOOKAS. [chap. ix. 

produce it; the best is made from goat's-dung; this is 
reduced to ashes, and saturated; the water is then 
strained off, and evaporated by boiling. Another 
quality is made of a peculiar grass, with a thick fleshy 
stem, something like a sugar-cane ; the ashes of this 
produce salt, but by no means pure. The chief of 
Latooka would eat a handful of salt greedily that' I 
gave him from my large supply, and I could purchase 
supplies with this article better than with beads. 

On the 4th of June, Ibrahim and eighty-five men 
started for Obbo in charge of about 400 cows and 
1,000 goats. 

Shortly after their departure, a violent thunder¬ 
storm, attended with a deluge of rain, swept over the 
country, and flooded the Latooka river and the various 
pools that formed my game-preserves. 

I looked forward to good duck-shooting on the 
morrow, as a heavy storm was certain to be followed 
by large arrivals. 

On the morning of the 5th, I was out at an early 
hour, and in a very short time I killed eight ducks and 
geese. There was a certain pool surrounded by a 
small marsh within half a mile of my camp, that 
formed the greatest attraction to the wild fowl. There 
were two hegleek trees in this marsh; and it was 
merely necessary to stand beneath the shelter of either 


ANOTHER CAUSE OF ALARM. 


CHAP. IX.] 


357 


to insure good sport, as the ducks continually arrived 
at the pool. 

I was just entering into the sport with all my heart, 
when I heard a shot fired in the Turks' camp, followed 
by loud yells, and I observed a crowd of Latookas 
rushing from the camp towards their town. In a few 
moments later, I heard the Turks' drum, and I saw 
people running to and fro, and the Latookas assembling 
from the neighbourhood with lances and shields, as 
though preparing for a fray. I had only two men 
with me, and being nearly half a mile from camp, I 
thought it advisable to hasten towards the spot, lest 
some contretemps should take place before my arrival. 
Accordingly I hurried over the open plain, and shortly 
reached my camp. I found my wife arranging the 
men at their posts, fearing a disturbance. They had 
seen me hastening towards them, and I now went to 
the Turks' camp, that was close by, and inquired the 
cause of alarm. 

Never was I more disgusted. Already the vultures 
were swooping in circles above some object outside the 
camp. It appeared that a native of Kayala (the town 
lately attacked by the Turks) had visited Tarrangolle 
to inquire after a missing cow. The chiefs, Moy and 
Commoro, brought him to the Turks' camp, merely to 
prove that he had no evil intention. No sooner was it 


358 


THE TURKS MURDER A NATIVE. 


[chap. IX. 


announced that he was a native of Kayala than the 
Turks declared he was a spy, and condemned him to 
be shot. The two chiefs, Moy and Commoro, feeling 
themselves compromised by having brought the man 
into such danger unwittingly, threw themselves before 
him, and declared that no harm should befall him, as 
he belonged to them. Tearing them away by the 
combined force of many men, the prisoner was imme¬ 
diately bound, and led forth by his bloodthirsty 
murderers to death. " Shoot the spy was hardly 
pronounced, when a villain stepped forward, and 
placing the muzzle of his musket close to his left 
breast, he fired. The man dropped dead, thus mur¬ 
dered in cold blood. The natives rushed in crowds 
from the spot, naturally supposing that a general 
massacre would follow so unprovoked an outrage. 
The body was dragged by the heels a few paces 
outside the camp, and the vultures were its sextons 
within a few minutes of the death. 

It was with difficulty that I could restrain my 
temper under such revolting circumstances. I felt 
that at an unlooked-for moment I might be compro¬ 
mised in some serious outbreak of the natives, caused 
by the brutal acts of the traders. Already it was 
declared unsafe to venture out shooting without ten or 
twelve armed men as escort. 


CHAP. IX.j 


COUNTRY DISTURBED . 


359 


A mixture of cowardice and brutality, tbe traders' 
party became exceedingly timid, as a report was current 
that tbe inhabitants of Kayala intended to ally them¬ 
selves to those of Tarrangolle, and to attack the Turks 
in their camp. I accordingly strengthened my position 
by building a tower of palisades, that entirely com¬ 
manded all approaches to my zareeba. 

Latooka was already spoiled by the Turks: it was 
now difficult to procure flour and milk for beads, as 
the traders' people, since the attack on Kayala, had 
commenced the system of purchasing all supplies with 
either goats, or beef, which having been stolen, was 
their cheapest medium of exchange. Although rich in 
beads and copper, I was actually poor, as I could not 
obtain supplies. Accordingly I allowanced my men 
two pounds of beads monthly, and they went to distant 
villages and purchased their own provisions indepen¬ 
dently of me. 

On the 11th June, at 7.20 a.m., there was a curious 
phenomenon ; the sky was perfectly clear, but we were 
startled by a noise like the sudden explosion of a mine, 
or the roar of heavy cannon, almost immediately 
repeated. It appeared to have originated among the 
mountains, about sixteen miles distant due south of 
my camp. I could only account for this occurrence 
by the supposition that an immense mass of the granite 


360 


GOOD SPORT. 


[chap. IX. 


rock might have detached itself from a high mountain, 
and, in falling to the valley, it might have bounded 
from a projection on the mountains side, and thus 
have caused a double report. 

June 13.—I shot ten ducks and geese before break¬ 
fast, including one of the large black and white geese 
with the crimson head and neck. On my return to 
camp I weighed this-—exactly eleven pounds; this 
goose has on either pinion-joint a sharp, horny spur, an 
inch in length. 

During my morning stroll I met hundreds of natives 
running excitedly with shields and spears towards 
Adda's village : they were going to steal the cattle 
from a village about four miles distant; thus there will 
be a fight in the course of the day. The Latooka 
stream is now full, and has the appearance of a per¬ 
manent river carrying a considerable body of water to 
the Sobat. 

I met with two thieves while duck-shooting this 
morning—the one an eagle, and the other a native. 
The beautiful white-throated fish-eagle may generally 
be seen perched upon a bough overhanging the stream, 
ready for any prey that may offer. This morning I 
shot two ducks right and left as they flew down the 
course of the river—-one fell dead in the water, but the 
other, badly hit, fluttered along the surface for some 


CHAP. IX.] TWO THIEVES. ' 361 

distance, and was immediately chased and seized by a 
fish-eagle which, quite reckless of the gun, had been 
watching the sport from a high tree, and evinced a 
desire to share the results. My men, not to be done 
out of their breakfast, gave chase, shouting and yelling 
to frighten the eagle, and one of them having a gun 
loaded with buckshot, fired, and the whirr-r of the 
chaige induced the eagle to drop the duck, which was 
triumphantly seized by the man. 

The other thief was a native. I fired a long shot 
at a drake; the bird flew a considerable distance and 
towered, falling about a quarter of a mile distant. A 
Latooka was hoeing close to where it fell, and we dis¬ 
tinctly saw him pick up the bird and run to a bush, 
in which he hid it; upon our arrival he continued 
his work as though nothing had happened, and denied 
all knowledge of it: he was accordingly led by the 
ear to the bush, where we found the duck carefully 
secreted. 

June 14.—The natives lost one man killed in the 
fight yesterday, therefore the night was passed in 
singing and dancing. 

The country is drying up ; although the stream is 
full there is no rain in Latooka, the water in the river 
being the eastern drainage of the Obbo mountains, 
where it rains daily. 


362 IBRAHIMAWA'S REMINISCENCES OF ENGLAND, [chap. ix. 

Ibrahimawa, the Bornu man, alias " Sinbad the 
Sailor/' the great traveller, amuses and bores me daily 
with his long and wonderful stories of his travels. 
The style of his narratives may be conjectured from 
the following extracts : " There was a country adjoining 
Bornu, where the king was so fat and heavy that he 
could not walk, until the doctors opened his belly and 
cut the fat out, which operation was repeated annually." 

He described another country as a perfect Paradise, 
where no one ever drank anything so inferior as water. 
This country was so wealthy that the poorest man 
could drink merissa (beer). He illustrated the general 
intoxication by saying, that " after 3 p.m. no one was 
sober throughout the country, and from that hour the 
cows, goats, and fowls were all drunk, as they drank 
the merissa left in the jars by their owners, who were 
all asleep." 

He knew all about England, having been a servant 
on a Turkish frigate that was sent to Gravesend. He 
described an evening entertainment most vividly. He 
had been to a ball at an " English Pasha's in Black- 
wall," and had succeeded wonderfully with some 
charming English ladies excessively " decollete," upon 
whom he felt sure he had left a lasting impression, 
as several had fallen in love with him on the spot, 
supposing him to be a Pasha. 


CHAP. IX.] 


PARTY RECALLED TO OREO. 


363 


Such were instances of life and recollections of 
Ibrahimawa, the Bornu. 

On June 16, Koorshid's people returned from Obbo. 
Ibrahim and a few men had remained there, and dis¬ 
trusting the warlike spirit of the Latookas, he now 
recalled the entire establishment from Tarrangolle, in¬ 
tending to make a station at the more peaceful country 
of Obbo. An extract from my journal on that day 
explains my feelings : " This is most annoying ; I had 
arranged my camp and garden, &c. for the wet season, 
and I must now leave everything, as it is impossible 
to remain in this country with my small force 
alone; the natives have become so bad (since the 
cattle razzia) that a considerable armed party is 
obliged to go to the stream for water. It is remark¬ 
ably pleasant travelling in the vicinity of the traders; 
they convert every country into a wasp's nest;— 
they have neither plan of action nor determination, 
and I, being unfortunately dependent upon their move¬ 
ments, am more like a donkey than an explorer, 
that is saddled and ridden away at a moment's 
notice. About sixty natives of Obbo accompanied 
the men sent by Ibrahim to carry the effects;—I 
require at least fifty, as so many of my transport 
animals are dead." Nothing can exceed the laziness 
and dogged indolence of my men; I have only four 


364 


WHITE ANTS. 


[chap. IX. 


who are worth having,—Richarn, Hamecl, Sali, and 
Taher. 

All the men in either camp were discontented at the 
order to move, as they had made themselves comfortable 
expecting to remain in Latooka during the wet season. 
The two chiefs, Moy and Commoro, found themselves 
in a dilemma., as they had allied themselves with the 
Turks in the attack upon the neighbouring town, de¬ 
pending upon them for future support; they were now 
left in the lurch, and felt themselves hardly a match 
for their enemies. 

A few extracts from my journal will close our sojourn 
at Latooka :— 

"June 18 th .—The white ants are a curse upon 
the country ; although the hut is swept daily and 
their galleries destroyed, they rebuild everything 
during the night, scaling the supports to the roof and 
entering the thatch. Articles of leather or wool are 
the first devoured. The rapidity with which they 
repair their galleries is wonderful; all their work is 
carried on with cement; the earth is contained in their 
stomachs, and this being mixed with some glutinous 
matter they deposit it as bees do their wax. Although 
the earth of this country if tempered for house-building 
will crumble in the rain, the hills of the white ants 
remain solid and waterproof, owing to the glue in the 


CHAP. IX.] 


DESTRUCTIVENESS OF BIRDS. 


365 


cement. I have seen three varieties of white ants— 
the largest about the size of a small wasp : this does not 
attack dwellings, but subsists upon fallen trees. The 
second variety is not so large ; this species seldom 
enters buildings. The third is the greatest pest: this 
is the smallest, but thick and juicy;—the earth is 
literally alive with them, nor is there one square foot 
of ground free from them in Latooka. 

"June 19 th .—Had a bad attack of fever yesterday 
that has been hanging about me for some days. 
Weighed all the luggage and packed the stores in 
loads of fifty pounds each for the natives to carry. 

"June 20th .—Busy making new ropes from the bark 
of a mimosa; all hands at work, as we start the day 
after to-morrow. My loss in animals makes a difference 
of twenty-three porters' loads. I shall take forty 
natives, as the bad road will necessitate light loads for 
the donkeys. I have now only fourteen donkeys ; 
these are in good condition, and would thrive, were not 
the birds so destructive by pecking sores upon their 
backs. These sores would heal quickly by the appli¬ 
cation of gunpowder, but the birds irritate and enlarge 
them until the animal is rendered useless. I have lost 
two donkeys simply from the attacks of these birds ;— 
the only remaining camel and some of the donkeys 
1 have covered with jackets made of tent-cloth. 


366 


CATTLE STEALERS AT NIGHT . 


[chap. IX, 


" June 21 st. —Nil. 

"June 22 d .—We were awoke last night by a report 
from the sentry that natives were prowling around the 
camp; — I accordingly posted three additional guards. 
At a little after 2 a.m. a shot was fired, followed by two 
others in quick succession, and a sound as of many feet 
running quickly was heard passing the entrance of the 
camp. I was up in a moment, and my men were 
quickly under arms : the Turks' drum beat, and their 
camp (that was contiguous to mine) was alive with 
men, but all was darkness. I lighted my policeman's 
lantern, that was always kept ready trimmed, and I 
soon arrived at the spot where the shot had been fired. 
The natives had been endeavouring to steal the cattle 
from the Turks' kraal, and favoured by the darkness 
they had commenced burrowing with the intention of 
removing the thorn bushes that formed the fence. Un¬ 
fortunately for the thieves, they were unaware that 
there were watchers in the kraal among the cattle : 
it was a pitch dark night, and nothing could be dis¬ 
tinguished ; but the attention of one of the sentries was 
attracted by the snorting and stamping of the' goats, 
that evidently denoted the presence of something un¬ 
common. He then perceived close to him, on the other 
side the hedge, a dark object crouching, and others 
standing, and he heard the bushes moving as though 


CHAP. IX.] 


A THIEF SHOT. 


367 


some one was at work to remove them. He imme¬ 
diately fired; and the sound of a rush of men in retreat 
induced both him and the other sentry to repeat the 
shot. By the light of the lantern we now searched the 
place, and discovered the body of a native lying close 
to the fence just above a considerable hole that he had. 
scraped beneath the thorns, in order to extract the 
stems that were buried in the ground, and thus by 
drawing away the bushes he would have effected an 
entrance. He had commenced operations exactly op¬ 
posite the sentry, and the musket being loaded with 
mould-shot, he had received the contents at close 
quarters. Although he had tempted fate and met with 
deserved misfortune, it was most disgusting to witness 
the brutality of the Turks, who, tying ropes to the 
ankles, dragged the body to the entrance of their camp, 
and wished for amusement to drive their bayonets 
through the chest. Although dying, the man was not 
dead : a shot had entered one eye, knocking it out; 
several had entered the face, chest, and thighs, as he 
was in a stooping position when the gun was fired. 
I would not allow him to be mutilated, and after 
groaning in agony for some time, he died. The 
traders people immediately amputated the hands at 
the wrists to detach the copper bracelets, while others 
cut off his helmet of beads, and the body was very 


368 


MY WIFE ILL WITH FEVER. 


[chap. IX. 


considerately dragged close to the entrance of my 
camp. 

" June 22d .—Finding that the disgusting Turks had 
deposited the dead body almost at my door, I had it 
removed a couple of hundred yards to leeward. The 
various birds of prey immediately collected—buzzards, 
vultures, crows, and the great Marabou stork. I 
observed a great bare-necked vulture almost succeed 
in turning the body over by pulling at the flesh of the 
arm at the opposite side to that where it stood. I 
have noticed that birds of prey invariably commence 
their attack upon the eyes, inner portions of the thighs, 
and beneath the arms, before they devour the coarser 
portions. In a few hours a well-picked skeleton was 
all that was left of the Latooka." 

We were to start on the following day. My wife 
was dangerously ill with bilious fever, and was unable 
to stand, and I endeavoured to persuade the traders' 
party to postpone their departure for a few days. They 
would not hear of such a proposal; they had so irri¬ 
tated the Latookas that they feared an attack, and 
their captain, or vakeel, Ibrahim, had ordered them 
immediately to vacate the country. This was a most 
awkward position for me. The traders had induced 
the hostility of the country, and I should bear the 
brunt of it should I remain behind alone. Without 


CHAP. IX.J 


MARCH TO OBBO . 


369 


their presence I should be unable to procure porters 
as the natives would not accompany my feeble party, 
especially as I could offer them no other payment but 
beads or copper. The rains had commenced within 
the last few days at Latooka, and on the route towards 
Obbo we should encounter continual storms. We were 
to march by a long and circuitous route to avoid the 
rocky passes that would be dangerous in the present 
spirit of the country, especially as the traders possessed 
large herds that must accompany the party. They 
allowed five days' march for the distance to Obbo by 
the intended route. This was not an alluring pro¬ 
gramme for the week's entertainment, with my wife 
almost in a dying state! However, I set to work, and 
fitted an angarep with arched hoops from end to end, 
so as to form a frame like the cap of a wagon. This 
I covered with two waterproof Abyssinian tanned 
hides securely strapped; and lashing two long poles 
parallel to the sides of the angarep, I formed an excel¬ 
lent palanquin. In this she was assisted, and we 
started on 23d June. 

Our joint parties consisted of about three hundred 
men. On arrival at the base of the mountains, instead 
of crossing them as before, we skirted the chain to 
the north-west, and then rounding through a natural 
gap, we ascended gradually towards the south. 


VOL. i. 


B B 


370 


GREAT PUFF ADDER. 


[chap, IX 


On the fifth day we were, at 5 p.m., within twelve 
miles of Obbo, and we bivouacked on a huge mass of 
granite on the side of a hill, forming an inclining 
plateau of about an acre. The natives who accom¬ 
panied us were immediately ordered to clear the grass 
from the interstices of the rocks, and hardly had they 
commenced when a slight disturbance, among some 
loose stones that were being removed, showed that 
something was wrong. In an instant lances and stones 
were hurled at some object by the crowd, and upon 
my arrival I saw the most horrid monster that I have 
ever experienced. I immediately pinned his head to 
the ground and severed it at one blow with my hunt¬ 
ing-knife, damaging the keen edge of my favourite 
weapon upon the hard rock. It was a puff adder of 
the most extraordinary dimensions. I immediately 
fetched my measuring-tape from the game-bag, in 
which it was always at hand. Although the snake 
was only 5 ft. 4 in. in length, it was slightly above 
15 inches in girth. The tail was, as usual in 
poisonous snakes, extremely blunt, and the head per¬ 
fectly flat, and about 2-Jr inches broad, but unfor¬ 
tunately during my short absence to fetch the measure 
the natives had crushed it with a rock. They had 
thus destroyed it as a specimen, and had broken three 
of the teeth, but I counted eight, and secured five 


CHAP.JX.] 


POISON-FANGS OF SNAKFS. 


371 


poison fangs, the two most prominent being nearly 
an inch in length. The poison-fangs of snakes are 
artfully contrived by some diabolical freak of nature 
as pointed tubes, through which the poison is injected 
into the base of the wound inflicted. The extreme 
point of the fang is solid, and is so finely sharp¬ 
ened that beneath a powerful microscope it is 
perfectly smooth, although the point of the finest 
needle is rough. A short distance above the solid 
point of the fang the surface of the tube appears as 
though cut away, like the first cut of a quill in 
forming a pen : through this aperture the poison is 
injected. 

Hardly had I secured the fangs, when a tremendous 
clap of thunder shook the earth and echoed from rock 
to rock among the high mountains, that rose abruptly 
on our left within a mile. Again the lightning flashed,, 
and, almost simultaneously, a deafening peal roared 
from the black cloud above us, just as I was kneeling 
over the arch-enemy to skin him. He looked so Sa¬ 
tanic with his flat head, and minute cold grey eye, and 
scaly hide, with the lightning flashing and the thunder 
roaring around him; I felt like St. Dunstan with 
the devil, and skinned him. The natives and also 
my men were horrified, as they would not touch 
any portion of such a snake with their hands : 

b b 2 


372 VIOLENT STORM. [chap..ix. 

even its skin was supposed by these people to be 
noxious. 

Down came the rain ; I believe it could not have 
rained'harder. Mrs. Baker in the palanquin was for¬ 
tunately like a snail in her shell; but I had nothing for 
protection except an ox-hide : throwing myself upon 
my angarep I drew it over me. The natives had 
already lighted prodigious fires, and all crowded around 
the blaze; but what would have been the Great Fire 
of London in that storm ? In half an hour the fire was 
out; such a deluge fell that the ravine that was dry 
when we first bivouacked, was now an impassable 
torrent. My ox-hide had become tripe, and my an¬ 
garep being covered with a mat, was some inches deep 
in water. Throwing away the mat, the pond escaped 
through the sieve-like network, but left me drenched. 
Throughout the night it poured. We had been wet 
through every day during the journey from Latooka, 
but the nights had been fine; this was superlative 
misery for all. At length it ceased—morning dawned; 
we could not procure fire, as everything was saturated, 
and we started on our march through forest and high 
reeking grass. By this circuitous route from Latooka 
we.avoided all difficult passes, as the ground on the 
west side of the chain of mountains ascended rapidly 
but regularly to Obbo. 


CHAP. IX.] 


ARRIVE AGAIN AT OREO. 


373 


On arrival at my former hut I found a great change; 
the grass was at least ten feet high, and my little camp 
was concealed in the rank vegetation. Old Katchiba 
came to meet us, but brought nothing, as he said the 
Turks had eaten up the country. An extract from 
my journal, dated July 1, explains the misery of our 
position. 

"This Obbo country is now a land of starvation. 
The natives refuse do supply provision for beads ; nor 
will they barter anything unless in exchange for flesh. 
This is the curse that the Turks have brought upon 
the country by stealing cattle and throwing them 
away wholesale. We have literally nothing to eat 
except tullaboon, a small bitter grain used in lieu of 
corn by the natives: there is no game ; if it existed, 
shooting would be impossible, as the grass is impenetra¬ 
ble. I hear that the Turks intend to make a razzia on 
the Shoggo country near Farajoke; thus they will stir 
up a wasp's nest for me wherever I go, and render it 
impossible for my small party to proceed alone, or 
even to remain in peace. I shall be truly thankful to 
quit this abominable land ; in my experience I never 
saw such scoundrels as Africa produces—the natives of 
the Soudan being worse than all. It is impossible to 
make a servant of any of these people; the apathy, 
indolence, dishonesty combined with dirtiness, are 


3/4 HOSTILITY CAUSED BY THE TURKS. [chap. ix. 

beyond description ; and tbeir abhorrence of anything 
like order increases their natural dislike to Europeans. 
I have not one man even approaching to a servant; 
the animals are neglected, therefore they die. And 
were I to die they would rejoice, as they would imme¬ 
diately join Koorshid's people in cattle stealing and 
slave hunting;—charming followers in the time of 
danger! Such men destroy all pleasure, and render 
exploration a mere toil. No one can imagine the hard¬ 
ships and annoyances to which we are subject, with the 
additional disgust of being somewhat dependent upon 
the traders' band of robbers. For this miserable situa¬ 
tion my vakeel is entirely responsible : had my original 
escort been faithful, I should have been entirely inde¬ 
pendent, and could with my transport animals have 
penetrated far south before the commencement of the 
rainy season. Altogether I am thoroughly sick of 
this expedition, but I shall plod onwards with dogged 
obstinacy ; God only knows the end. I shall be grate¬ 
ful should the day ever arrive once more to see Old 
England." 

Both my wife and I were excessively ill with bilious 
fever, and neither could assist the other. The old 
chief, Katchiba, hearing that we were dying, came to 
charm us with some magic spell. He found us 
lying helpless, and he immediately procured a small 


CHAP. IX.] 


THE M.D. ATTENDS US. 


3 75 


branch of a tree, and filling liis month with water, he 
squirted it over the leaves and about the floor of the 
hut; he then waved the branch around my wife's head, 
also around mine, and completed the ceremony by 
sticking it in the thatch above the doorway ; he told 
us we should now get better, and perfectly satisfied, he 
took his leave. The hut was swarming with rats and 
white ants, the former racing over our bodies during 
the night, and burrowing through the floor, filling our 
only room with mounds like mole-hills. As fast as we 
stopped the holes, others were made with determined 
perseverance. Having a supply of arsenic, I gave 
them an entertainment, the effect being disagreeable to 
all parties, as the rats died in their holes, and created 
a horrible effluvium, while fresh hosts took the place of 
the departed. Now and then a snake would be seen 
gliding within the thatch, having taken shelter from 
the pouring rain. 

The smallpox was raging throughout the country, 
and the natives were dying like flies in winter. The 
country was extremely unhealthy, owing to the con¬ 
stant rain and the rank herbage, which prevented a 
free circulation of air, and from the extreme damp 
induced fevers. The temperature was 65° Fahr. at night, 
and 72° during the day; dense clouds obscured the 
sun for many days, and the air was reeking with 


376 


DEATH OF "MOUSE: 


[chap. IX. 


moisture. In tlie evening it was always necessary to 
keep a blazing fire witliin the hut, as the floor and 
walls were wet and chilly. 

The wet herbage disagreed with my baggage animals. 
Innumerable flies appeared, including the Tsetse, and 
in a few weeks the donkeys had no hair left, either on 
their ears or legs; they drooped and died one by one. 
It was in vain that I erected sheds, and lighted fires; 
nothing would protect them from the flies. The 
moment the fires were lit, the animals would rush 
wildly into the smoke, from which nothing would 
drive them, and in the clouds of imaginary protection 
they would remain all day, refusing food. On the 
16th of July my last horse, Mouse, died; he had a very 
long tail, for which I obtained a cow in exchange. 
Nothing was prized so highly as a horse s tail, the hairs 
being used for stringing beads, and also for making 
tufts as ornaments, to be suspended from the elbows. 
It was highly fashionable in Obbo for the men to 
wear such tufts, formed of the bushy ends of cow's- 
tails. It was also "the thing" to wear six or eight 
polished rings of iron, fastened so tightly round the 
throat, as to almost choke the wearer, somewhat re¬ 
sembling dog-collars. 

On 18th July, the natives held a great consultation, 
and ended with a war-dance; they were all painted in 




THE OBBO WAR DANCE. 



























































































GHAP. IX.] 


MARAUDING EXPEDITION. 


3 77 


various patterns, with red ochre and white pipe-clay; 
their heads adorned with very tasteful ornaments of 
cowrie-shells, surmounted by plumes of ostrich-feathers, 
which drooped over the back of the neck. After the 
dance, the old chief addressed them in a long and 
vehement speech; he was followed by several other 
speakers, all of whom were remarkably fluent, and the 
resolution of the meeting was declared " that the 
nogaras were to be beaten,- and men collected to accom¬ 
pany the Turks on a razzia in the Madi country." 

Ibrahim started with 120 armed men and a mass of 
Obbo people on the marauding expedition. 

On the following day Katchiba came to see us r 
bringing a present of flour. I gave him a tin plate, a 
wooden spoon, the last of the tea-cups, and a tinsel 
paper of mother-of-pearl shirt buttons, which took his 
fancy so immensely, that my wife was begged to 
suspend it from his neck like a medal. He was really 
a very good old fellow—by far the best I have seen in 
Africa. He was very suspicious of the Turks, who, he 
said, would ultimately ruin him, as, by attacking the 
Madi tribe, they would become his enemies, and invade 
Obbo when the Turks should leave. Cattle were of 
very little use in his country, as the flies would kill 
them ; he had tried all his magic art, but it was of no 
avail against the flies ; my donkeys would all assuredly 


378 


SAAT BECOMES SCIENTIFIC. 


[chap. tx. 


die. He said that the losses inflicted upon the various 
tribes by the Turks were ruinous, as their chief means 
of subsistence was destroyed; without cattle they 
could procure no wives ; milk, their principal diet, was 
denied them, and they were driven to despair; thus 
they would fight for their cattle, although they would 
allow their families to be carried off without resistance; 
cattle would procure another family, but if the animals 
were stolen, there would be no remedy. 

Flies by day, rats and innumerable bugs by night, 
heavy dew, daily rain, and impenetrable reeking grass, 
rendered Obbo a prison about as disagreeable as could 
exist. 

The many months of tiresome inaction that I was 
forced to remain in this position, I will not venture to 
inflict upon the reader, but I will content myself with 
extracts from my journal from time to time, that will 
exhibit the general character of the situation. 

" Aug. 2d .—Several of my men have fever; the 
boy Saat, upon receiving a dose of calomel, asked, 
' whether he was to swallow the paper in which it was 
wrapped ? ; This is not the first time that I have been 
asked the same question by my men. Saat feels the 
ennui of Obbo, and finds it difficult to amuse himself; 
he has accordingly become so far scientific, that he has 
investigated the machinery of two of my watches, 


SAAT AND GADDUM HER. 


CHAP. IX.] 


379 


both, of wliicb be lias destroyed. I am now reduced 
to one watch, tlie solitary survivor of four that 
formed my original family of timekeepers. Having 
commenced as a drummer, Saat feels tlie loss of bis 
drum that was smashed by the camel; be accordingly 
keeps bis band in by practising upon anything that be 
can adapt to that purpose, tlie sacred kettle inverted, 
and a tin cup having been drummed until the one 
became leaky, and the bottom of the other disappeared. 

" Saat and the black woman are, unfortunately, 
enemies, and the monotony of the establishment is 
sometimes broken by a stand-up fight between him 
and his vicious antagonist, Gaddum Her. The latter 
has received a practical proof that the boy is growing 
.strong, as I found him the other day improving her 
style of beauty by sitting astride upon her stomach and 
punching her eyes with his fists, as she lay upon the 
ground furrowing Saat's fat cheeks with her very dirty 
nails. It is only fair to the boy to say that Gaddum 
Her is always the aggressor. 

" It is absurd to see the. self-importance of the 
miserable cut-throats belonging to Koorshid's party, 
who, far too great to act as common soldiers, swagger 
about with little slave boys in attendance, who carry 
their muskets. I often compare the hard lot of our 
honest poor in England with that of these scoundrels, 


280 WILL -ENGLAND SUPPRESS THE SLAVE-TRADE I [chap. ix. 

whose courage consists in plundering and murdering 
defenceless natives, while the robbers fatten on the 
spoil. I am most anxious to see whether the English 
Government will take active notice of the White Nile 
trade, or whether diplomacy will confine them to simple 
protest and correspondence, to be silenced by a promise 
from the Egyptian Government to put a stop to the 
present atrocities. The Egyptian Government will, of 
course promise, and, as usual with Turks, will never 
perform. On the other hand, the savages are them¬ 
selves bad ; one tribe welcomes the Turks as allies 
against their neighbours, and sees no crime in murder, 
provided the result be ' cattle/ This, of course, pro¬ 
duces general confusion. 

" Aug. 6th .—The difficulties of procuring provisions 
are most serious : the only method of purchasing 
flour is as follows. The natives will not sell it for 
anything but flesh | to purchase an ox, I require 
molotes (hoes) : to obtain molotes I must sell my 
clothes and shoes to the traders' men. The ox is then 
driven to a distant village, and is there slaughtered, 
and the flesh being divided into about a hundred small 
portions, my men sit upon the ground with three large 
baskets, into which are emptied minute baskets of flour 
as the natives produce them, one in exchange for each 
parcel of meat. This tedious process is a specimen of 


chap, ix.] FILTHY CUSTOMS OF THE NATIVES. 381 

Central African difficulties in the simple act of pur¬ 
chasing flour. The Obbo natives are similar to the 
Bari in some of their habits. I have had great diffi¬ 
culty in breaking my cow-keeper of his disgusting 
custom of washing the milk-bowl with cow's urine, 
and even mixing some with the milk; he declares that 
unless he washes his hands with such water before 
milking, the cow will lose her milk. This filthy 
custom is unaccountable. The Obbo natives wash out 
their mouths with their own urine. This habit may 
have originated in the total absence of salt in their 
country. The Latookas, on the contrary, are very 
clean, and milk could be purchased in their own 
vessels without fear." 

"Aug. 8th .—Having killed a fat ox, the men are 
busily engaged in boiling down the fat. Care should 
be taken to sprinkle a few drops of water in the pot 
when the fat is supposed to be sufficiently boiled ; 
should it hiss, as though poured upon melted lead, it is 
ready; but if it be silent, the fat is not sufficiently 
boiled, and it will not keep. 

" Three runaway female slaves were captured by 
Koorshid's people this morning, two of whom were 
brutally treated. On the whole the female slaves are 
well kept when very young, but well thrashed when 
the black bloom of youth has passed." 


382 


THE EGYPTIAN SCARARuEUS. 


[chap. IX. 


"Aug. 11 th .—At this season immense beetles are 
at work in vast numbers,* walking off with every species 
of dung, by forming it into balls as large as small 
apples, and rolling them away with their hind-legs, 
while they walk backwards by means of the fore-legs. 
Should a ball of dung roll into a deep rut, I have fre¬ 
quently seen another beetle come to the assistance of 
the proprietor of the ball, and quarrel for its possession 
after their joint labours have raised it to the level. 

" This species was the holy scarabaeus of the ancient 
Egyptians ; it appears shortly after the commencement 
of the wet season, its labours continuing until the 
cessation of the rains, at which time it disappears. 
Was it not worshipped by the ancients as the harbinger 
of the high Nile ? The existence of Lower Egypt 
depending upon the annual inundation, the rise of the 
river was observed with general anxiety. The beetle ap¬ 
pears at the commencement of the rise in the river level, 
and from its great size and extraordinary activity in 
clearing the earth from all kinds of ordure, its presence 
is remarkable. Appearing at the season of the flood, 
may not the ancients have imagined some connexion 
between the beetle and the river, and have considered 
it sacred as the harbinger of the inundation ? 

" There is a wild bean in this country, the blossom 
of which has a delicious perfume of violets. I regret 


chap, ix.] BACHEETA ,, THE UNYORO SLAVE. 383 

tliat I have not a supply of paper for botanical speci¬ 
mens, as many beautiful flowers appeared at the 
commencement of the rains. Few thorns and no gums 
form a strong contrast to the Soudan, where nearly 
every tree and shrub is armed/' 

" Aug. 13 ill .—I had a long examination of a slave 
woman, Bacheeta, belonging to one of Koorshid's men. 
She had been sent two years ago by the king, Kamrasi, 
from Unyoro, as a spy among the traders, with orders- 
to attract them to the country if appearances were 
favourable, but to return with a report should they be 
dangerous people. 

" On her arrival at Faloro, Debono's people captured 
her, and she was eventually sold to her present owner. 
She speaks Arabic, having learnt it from the traders' 1 
people. She declares that Magungo, the place of which 
I have heard so much, is only four days' hard marching 
for a native, direct from Faloro, but eight days' for 
the Turks; and that it is equi-distant from Faloro 
and from Kamrasi's capital in Unyoro. She had heard 
of the Luta N'zige, as reported to Speke, but she knew 
it only by the name of £ Kara-wootan-N'zige.' 

" She corroborated the accounts I had formerly re¬ 
ceived, of large boats arriving with Arabs at Magungo, 
and she described the lake as a ' white sheet as far as 
the eye could reach.' She particularized it as a pecu- 


384 


INTELLIGENCE OF THE LAKE. 


[chap. IX. 


liar water, that was unlike other waters, as it would 
'come up to a water-jar, if put upon the shore, and 
carry it away and break it/ By this description I 
understood ' waves/ She also described the ¦ Gondo- 
koro river/ or White Nile, as flowing into and out of 
the lake, and she spoke of a c great roar of water, that 
fell from the sky/ 

" I trust I may succeed in reaching this lake : if 
not, my entire time, labour, and expenditure will have 
been wasted, as I throw sport entirely aside for the 
sake of this exploration. Were I to think of shooting 
in preference to exploring, I could have excellent sport 
on the Atabbi river during the dry season, as also on 
the Kanieti, in the vicinity of Wakkala; but I must 
neglect all but the great object, and push on to Kam- 
rasi's capital, and from thence to the lake. My great 
anxiety lies in the conduct of Koorshid's party; should 
they make razzias south, I shall be ruined, as my men 
will be afraid to advance through a disturbed country. 
I must keep on good terms with the chief of the party, 
as I depend upon him for an interpreter and porters. 

" My plan is to prevail on Ibrahim to commence an 
ivory trade in Kamrasi's country that might be legiti¬ 
mately conducted, instead of the present atrocious 
system of robbery and murder. I like Koorshid, as he 
is a bold-spoken robber instead of acting the hypocrite 


CHAP. IX.] ITS PROBABLE COMMERCIAL ADVANTAGES. 385 

like the other traders of Khartoum; thus, as he was the 
only man that was civil to me, I would do him a good 
turn could I establish an honest trade between Kamrasi 
and himself; at the same time, I should have the ad¬ 
vantage of his party as escort to the desired country. 
The case commercially lies as follows: — 

" Kamrasi s country, Unyoro, is a virgin land, where 
beads are hardly known, and where the king is the 
despotic ruler, whose word is law. All trade would be 
conducted through him alone, in the shape of presents, 
he giving elephants' tusks, while, in return, Koorshid 
would send him beads and various articles annually. 
Koorshid would thus be the sole trader with Kamrasi 
according to White Nile rules, and the abominable 
system of cattle robbery would be avoided. 

" The great difficulty attending trade in a distant 
country is the want of means of transport, one tribe, 
being generally hostile to the adjoining, fears to afford 
porters beyond the frontier. If I can prove that the 
Lake Luta Nzige is one source of the Nile with a 
navigable junction, I can at once do away with the 
great difficulty, and open up a direct trade for Koor¬ 
shid. The Lake is in Kamrasi's own dominions ; 
thus he will have no fear in supplying porters to 
deliver the ivory at a depot that might be established, 
either on the lake or at its junction with the Nile. A 

c c 


vol. r. 


386 


COMMERCE WITH THE INTERIOR. 


[chap. IX. 


vessel should be built upon the lake, to trade with the 
surrounding coasts, and to receive the ivory from the 
depot. This vessel would then descend from the lake 
to the White Nile to the head of the cataracts, where 
a camp should be formed, from which, in a few days' 
march, the ivory would reach Gondokoro. 

"A large trade might thus be established, as not only 
Unyoro would supply ivory, but the lake would open 
the navigation to the very heart of Africa. The 
advantage of dealing with Kamrasi direct would be 
great, as he is not a mere savage, demanding beads 
and bracelets; but he would receive printed cottons, 
and goods of various kinds, by which means the ivory 
would be obtained at a merely nominal rate. The 
depot on the Luta N'zige should be a general store, at 
which the vessel ascending from the station above the 
cataracts would deliver the various goods from Gon¬ 
dokoro, and from this store the goods would be dis¬ 
seminated throughout the countries bordering the lake 
by means of vessels. 

" The only drawback to this honest trade would be 
the general hatred of anything honest by the Khar- 
toumers ; the charms of cattle razzias and slave¬ 
hunting, with the attendant murders, attract these 
villanous cut-throats to the White Nile expeditions, 
and I fear it would be difficult to raise the number of 


CHAP. IX.] OBBO TEE CLOTHING FRONTIER. 


387 


armed men required for safety, were legitimate trade 
the sole object of the ivory hunter. 

" Even in Obbo, I believe that printed calicoes, red 
woollen shirts, blankets, &c. would purchase ivory. The 
elevation of this country being upwards of 3,600 feet, 
the nights are cold, and even the day is cold during 
the wet season, thus clothing is required; this we see 
in the first rudiments of covering, the skins of beasts 
used by the natives ; the Obbo people being the first 
tribe that adopts a particle of clothing from the Shillook 
country (lat. 10°) throughout the entire course of the 
White Nile to this latitude (4° 02'). Kamrasi's tribe 
are well covered, and farther south, towards Zanzibar, 
all tribes are clothed more or less; thus Obbo is the 
clothing frontier, where the climate has first prompted 
the savage to cover himself, while in the hot lowlands 
he remains in a state of nakedness. Where clothing 
is required, English manufactures would find a market 
in exchange for ivory; thus from this point a fair trade 
might be commenced. 

" From Farajoke, in the Sooli country, lat. 3° 33', up 
to this date the most southern limit of my explorations, 
the lake is about nine or ten days' march in a direct 
course; but such a route is impossible, owing to 
Debono's establishment occupying the intervening 
country, and the rules of the traders forbid a trespass 

c c 2 


388 


DEATH OF MY LAST CAMEL. 


[chap. IX. 


upon their assumed territory. Koorshids men would 
refuse to advance by that route; my men, if alone, 
will be afraid to travel, and will find some excuse for 
not proceeding ; from the very outset they have been 
an absolute burthen upon me, receiving a monthly 
allowance of two pounds of beads per head for doing 
literally nothing, after having ruined the independence 
of my expedition by their mutiny at Gondokoro." 

" Aug. 23 d. —My last camel died to-day; thus 
all my horses and camels are dead, and only eight 
donkeys remain out of twenty-one ; most of these will 
die, if not all. There can be no doubt that the exces¬ 
sive wet in all the food, owing to the constant rain 
and dew, is the principal cause of disease. The camels, 
horses, and donkeys of the Soudan, all thrive in the 
hot dry air of that country, and are unsuited for this 
damp climate. 

" Had I been without transport animals, my expedi¬ 
tion could not have left Gondokoro, as there was no 
possibility of procuring porters. I had always expected 
that my animals would die, but I had hoped they 
would have carried me to the equator : this they would 
have accomplished during the two months of compara¬ 
tive dry weather following my arrival at Gondokoro, 
had not the mutiny thwarted all my plans, and thrown 
me into the wet season. My animals have delivered 


CHAP. IX.] 


EXCELLENT SPECIES OF GOURD. 


389 


me at Obbo, and have died in inaction, instead of 
wearing out upon the road. Had I been able to start 
direct from Gondokoro, as I had intended, my animals 
would have delivered me in Kamrasi's country before 
the arrival of the heavy rains. 

" There is an excellent species of gourd in Obbo ; 
it is pear-shaped, about ten inches long, and seven in 
diameter, with a white skin, and warts upon the surface ; 
this is the most delicate and the best-flavoured that I 
have ever eaten. 

" There are two varieties of castor-oil plant in this 
country—one with a purple stem and bright red veins 
in the leaves, that is remarkably handsome. Also a 
wild plantain, with a crimson stem to the leaf; this 
does not grow to the height of the common plantain, 
but is simply a plume of leaves springing from the 
ground without a parent stem." 

" Aug. 30 th. —Mrs. Baker and I made a morning 
call for the first time upon old Katchiba by his express 
desire. His courtyard was cemented and clean, about 
a hundred feet in diameter, surrounded by palisades, 
which were overgrown with gourds and the climbing 
yam, Collololo. There were several large huts in the 
inclosure, belonging to his wives; he received us 
very politely, and begged us to enter his principal 
residence; it was simply arranged, being the usual 


390 


A MORNING CALL IN 0BB0. 


[chap, tx 


circular hut, but about twenty-five feet in diameter. 
Creeping on all fours through the narrow doorway, we 
found ourselves in the presence of one of his wives, 
who was preparing merissa. The furniture of the 
apartment was practical, and quite in accordance with 
the taste of the old chief, as the whole establishment 
appeared to be devoted to brewing merissa. There were 
several immense jars capable of holding about thirty 
gallons : some of these were devoted to beer, while one 
was reserved to contain little presents that he had re¬ 
ceived from ourselves and the Turks, including a much- 
esteemed red flannel shirt; these recherche objects 
were packed in the jar, and covered by a smaller vessel 
inverted on the mouth to protect them from rats and 
white ants. Two or three well-prepared ox-hides were 
spread upon the ground; and he requested Mrs. Baker 
to sit on his right hand, while I sat upon the left. 
Thus satisfactorily arranged, he called for some 
merissa, which his wife immediately brought in an 
immense gourd-shell, and both my wife and I having 
drunk, he took a long draught, and finished the gourd. 
The delightful old sorcerer, determined to entertain 
us, called for his rababa : a species of harp was 
handed to him ; this was formed of a hollow base and 
an upright piece of wood, from which descended 
eight strings. Some time was expended in carefully 


citap. IX.] KATCIIIBA 'S MUSICAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS. 391 

tuning liis instrument, which, being completed, he 
asked, ' if he should sing?' Fully prepared for some- 
tning comic, we begged him to begin. He sang a 
most plaintive and remarkably wild, but pleasing air, 
accompanying himself perfectly on his harp, producing 
the best music that I had ever heard among savages. 
In fact, music and dancing were old Katchiba's delight, 
especially if combined with deep potations. His song 
over, he rose from his seat and departed, but presently 
reappeared, leading a sheep by a string, which he 
begged us to accept. I thanked him for his attention, 
but I assured him that we had not paid him a visit 
with the expectation of receiving a present, and that 
we could not think of accepting it, as we had simply 
called upon him as friends ; he accordingly handed the 
sheep to his wife, and shortly after we rose to depart. 
Having effected an exit by creeping through the door¬ 
way, he led us both by the hand in a most friendly 
way for about a hundred yards on our path, and took 
leave most gracefully, expressing a hope that we should 
frequently come to see him. 

" On our return home we found the sheep waiting for 
us; determined not to be refused, he had sent it on 
before us. I accordingly returned him a most gorgeous 
necklace of the most valuable beads, and gave the 
native who had brought the sheep a present for himself 


392 


LOSS OF REMAINING DONKEY. 


[chap. jx. 


and wife; thus all parties were satisfied, and the sheep 
was immediately killed for dinner. 

" The following morning Katchiba appeared at my 
door with a large red flag, made of a piece of cotton 
cloth that the Turks had given him ; he was accom¬ 
panied by two men beating large drums, and a third 
playing a kind of clarionet: this playing at soldiers 
was an imitation of the Turks. He was in great spirits, 
being perfectly delighted with the necklace I had sent 
him" 

" Oct. §th .—I have examined my only remaining 
donkey ! he is a picture of misery—eyes and nose 
running, coat staring, and he is about to start to join 
his departed comrades; he has packed up for his last 
journey. With his loose skin hanging to his withered 
frame he looked like the British lion on the shield over 
the door of the Khartoum consulate. In that artistic 
effort the lion was equally lean and ragged, having 
perhaps been thus represented by the artist as a pic¬ 
torial allusion to the smallness of the Consul's pay; 
the illustration over the shabby gateway utters, ' Be¬ 
hold my leanness ! 150 1. per annum !' 

" I feel a touch of the poetic stealing over me when 
I look at my departing donkey. £ I never loved a dear 
gazelle,' &c. ; but the practical question, ' Who is to 
carry the portmanteau V remains unanswered. I do 


chap, ix.] " COMING EVENTS;' ETC.—FEVER. 393 

not believe the Turks have any intention of going to 
Kamrasi's country; they are afraid, as they have heard 
that he is a powerful king, and they fear the restric¬ 
tions that power will place upon their felonious pro¬ 
pensities. In that case I shall go on without them ; 
but they have deceived me, by borrowing 165lbs. of 
beads which they cannot repay; this puts me to much 
inconvenience. The Asua river is still impassable 
according to native reports; this will prevent a general 
advance south. Should the rains cease, the river will 
fall rapidly, and I shall make a forward move and 
escape this prison of high grass and inaction." 

"Oct. 1 1th .—Lions roaring every night, but not 
visible. I set my men to work to construct a fortified 
camp, a simple oblong of palisades with two flanking 
projections at opposite angles to command all ap¬ 
proaches ; the lazy scoundrels are sulky in consequence. 
Their daily occupation is drinking merissa, sleeping, 
and strumming on the rababa, while that of the black 
women is quarrelling—one ebony sister insulting the 
other by telling her that she is as e black as the kettle/ 
and recommending her 4 to eat poison/ " 

"Oct. 17 th .—I expect an attack of fever to-morrow 
or next day, as I understand from constant and 
painful experiences every step of this insidious 
disease. For some days one feels a certain uneasiness 


394 


SYMPTOMS. 


[chap. IX. 


of spirits difficult to explain; no peculiar symptom is 
observed until a day or two before the attack, when 
great lassitude is felt, with a desire to sleep. Rheu¬ 
matic pains in the loins, back, and joints of the limbs 
are accompanied by a sense of great weakness. A cold 
fit comes on very quickly; this is so severe that it 
almost immediately affects the stomach, producing 
painful vomiting with severe retching. The eyes are 
heavy and painful, the head hot and aching, the ex¬ 
tremities pale and cold, pulse very weak, and about 
fifty-six beats per minute; the action of the heart dis¬ 
tressingly weak, with total prostration of strength. 
This shivering and vomiting continues for about two 
hours, attended with great difficulty of breathing. 
The hot stage then comes on, the retching still con¬ 
tinuing, with the difficulty of breathing, intense weak¬ 
ness and restlessness for about an hour and a half, 
which, should the remedies be successful, terminate 
in profuse perspiration and sleep. The attack ends, 
leaving the stomach in a dreadful state of weakness. 
The fever is remittent, the attack returning almost 
at the same hour every two days, and reducing the 
patient rapidly to a mere skeleton ; the stomach 
refuses to act, and death ensues. Any severe action 
of the mind, such as grief or anger, is almost certain 
to be succeeded by fever in this country. My stock 


CHAP. IX.J 


DISMAL PROSPECT . 


395 


of quinine is reduced to a few grains, and my work 
lies before me; my cattle are all dead. We are 
both weakened by repeated fever, and travelling must 
be on foot/' 


END OF VOL. I. 


LONDON : ft. CLAY, SON, AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS. 









- 






. 



tJHg' 


'BURN' 

37 & 38 

-KIRBYS" 