About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/specimensofbush00blee

--------------------------------------
SPECIMENS 

OF 

BUSHMAN FOLKLORE 


COLLECTED BY 

The Late W. H. I. BLEEK, Ph.D. 

AND 

L. C. LLOYD 


EDITED BY THE LATTER 


WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY 

GEORGE McCALL THEAL, D.Lit., LL.D., etc. 

TRANSLATION INTO ENGLISH ; ILLUSTRATIONS ; AND APPENDIX. 


LONDON 

GEORGE ALLEN & COMPANY, Ltd. 
Ruskin House, 44 & 45 Rathbone Place, W. 

1911. 



HERTFORED: PRINTED BY
STEPHEN AUSTIN & SONS, LTD.


TO ALL FAITHFUL WORKERS. 




PREFACE. 

With all its shortcomings, after many and great 
difficulties, this volume of specimens of Bushman 
folk-lore is laid before the public. As will be seen 
from the lists given in Dr. Bleek's "Brief Account 
of Bushman Folk-lore and other Texts ", Cape 
Town, 1875, and in my "Short Account of Further 
Bushman Material collected", London, 1889, the 
selections which have been made for it form but 
a very small portion of the Bushman native literature 
collected. Whether future days will see the 
remainder of the manuscripts, as well as the fine 
collection of copies of Bushman pictures made by 
the late Mr. G» W. Stow, also published is a question 
that only time can answer. 

In the spelling of the native text in the volume 
now completed, various irregularities will be observed. 
These have their source chiefly in two causes. One 
of these was the endeavour always to write down, 
as nearly as possible, the sounds heard at the time; 
the other, that Dr. Bleek's orthography was of a more 
scientific kind than that of the other collector, whose 
ear had been mainly accustomed to English sounds. 

In a few instances, the "new lines" in the native 
text and translation do not correspond ; as the 
Bushman and English proofs had often to be sent 
over separately to Germany for correction. 

The corresponding marginal numbers, by the side 
of the native texts and the translation (which refer 
to the pages in the original manuscripts), will, it 
is hoped, be of material assistance to those wishing 
to study the Bushman language from this volume. 


Vlll 


PREFACE. 


With regard to the extra signs used in printing 
the Bushman texts, it should be explained that 
Dr. Bleek, in order to avoid still further confusion 
in the signs used to represent clicks, adopted the 
four marks for these which had already been 
employed by some of the missionaries in printing 
Hottentot. He added a horizontal line at the top 
of the mark I, used for the dental click, for the 
sake of additional clearness in writing ( see the table 
of signs on page 438 of the Appendix). This 
addition he intended to discontinue when the time 
for printing should come ; and it no longer appears 
in the table of signs he prepared for the printer 
in 1874. The sequence of the clicks, in this last 
table, he has also somewhat altered ; and has 
substituted the mark ^ instead of the previously 
used ^ for the u gentle croaking sound in the throat". 
I indicates the dental click. 

cerebral click, 
lateral click. 

„ palatal click. 

,, labial click. 

an aspirated guttural, like German ch. 
a strong croaking sound in the throat, 
a gentle croaking sound in the throat, 
the nasal pronunciation of a syllable. 
=> under vowels, indicates a rough, deep pro- 
nunciation of them. 

\ indicates the raised tone.* 

= indicates that the syllable under which it 
stands has a musical intonation. 

' indicates an arrest of breath (as in ttfuara). 

* The tone is occasionally the only distinguishing feature in 
words spelt otherwise alike, but having a different meaning. 


4 

O 

X 

y 




?? 




>? 


j? 


PREFACE. 


IX 


0 placed under a letter, indicates a very short 
pronunciation of it. 

- under a vowel, indicates a more or less open 
pronunciation of it. 

n indicates a ringing pronunciation of the n, as 
in " song " in English. 

r placed over n indicates that the pronunciation 
is between that of the two consonants. 
There is also occasionally a consonantal 
sound met with in Bushman between 
r, n, and 1. 

A description of how to make the first four clicks, 
in this list, follows; taken from Dr. Bleek's " Com- 
parative Grammar of South African Languages ", 
Part I, Phonology, pp. 12 and 13. 

The dental click I is sounded by pressing the "tip 
" of the tongue against the front teeth of the upper 
" jaw, and then suddenly and forcibly withdrawing 
"it". (Tindall.) It resembles our interjection of 
annoyance. 

The cerebral click \ is "sounded by curling up 
" the tip of the tongue against the roof of the 
" palate, and withdrawing it suddenly and forcibly". 
(Tindall.) 

The lateral click II is, "according to Tindall, in 
" ISTama Hottentot generally articulated by covering 
" with the tongue the whole of the palate, and 
" producing the sound as far back as possible, 
" either at what Lepsius calls the faucal or the 
" guttural point of the palate. European learners, 
" however, imitate the sound by placing the tongue 
" against the side teeth and then withdrawing it." 
* * * "A similar sound is often made use of 

" in urging forward a horse." 


X 


PREFACE. 


The palatal click b is " sounded by pressing the 
u tip of the tongue with as flat a surface as possible 
" against the termination of the palate at the gums, 
u and removing it in the same manner as during the 
" articulation of the other clicks ". 

The labial click, marked by Dr. Bleek O, sounds 
like a kiss. 

In the arrangement of these specimens of Bushman 
folk-lore, Dr. Bleek's division has been followed. 
The figures at the head of each piece refer to its 
number in one or other of the two Bushman Deports 
mentioned above. The letter B. or L. has been added, 
to show in which report it was originally included. 

" The Besurrection of the Ostrich," and the 
parsing of a portion of it, were not finally prepared 
for the printer when Dr. Bleek died; and it was, 
here and there, very difficult to be sure of what had 
been his exact intention, especially in the parsing ; 
but the papers were too important to be omitted. 

The givers of the native literature in the 
" Specimens" are as follows: — - 

\a\kuhta (who contributes two pieces) was a youth 
who came from a part of the country in or near 
the Strontbergen (lat. 30° S., long. 22° E.). He was 
with Dr. Bleek at Mowbray from August 29th, 1870, 
to October 15th, 1873. 

Wkdbbo or " Dream" (who furnishes fifteen pieces) 
was from the same neighbourhood as \a\kuhta. He 
was an excellent narrator, and patiently watched 
until a sentence had been written down, before 
proceeding with what he was telling. He much 
enjoyed the thought that the Bushman stories would 
become known by means of books. He was with 
Dr. Bleek from February 16th, 1871, to October 15th, 


PREFACE, 


XI 


1873. He intended to return, later, to help us at 
Mowbray, but, died before he could do so. 

I harrtkass'd or u Klein Jantje " (son-in-law to 
!l habbo) contributes thirty-four pieces to this volume. 
He also was an excellent narrator; and remained 
with us from January 10th, 1878, to December, 1879. 

DiaVkvmm gives fifteen pieces, which are in the 
Katkop dialect, which Dr. Bleek found to vary 
slightly from that spoken by II Jcdbbo and \a\kunta. 
He came from the Katkop Mountains, north of 
Calvinia (about 200 miles to the west of the homes 
of \a\kuhta and Wkabho). He was at Mowbray from 
before Christmas, 1873, to March 18th, 1874, 
returning on June 13th, 1874, and remaining until 
March 7th, 1876. 

! kweiten ta II ken (a sister of DiaXkwairi* s) contributes 
three pieces, also in the Katkop dialect. She 
remained at Mowbray from June 13th, 1874, to 
January 13th, 1875. 

I yaken-ah, an old Bushman woman (fifth in a group 
of Bushman men and women, taken, at Salt River, in 
1884), contributes one short fragment. She was with 
us, for a little while, in 1884; but, could not make 
herself happy at Mowbray. She longed to return 
to her own country, so that she might be buried 
with her forefathers. 

To the pieces of native literature dictated by 
Wkabho, no giver's name has been prefixed. To 
those supplied by the other native informants, their 
respective names have been added. 

Portraits of Wkabho , DiaXkwWin , his sister, [kweiten ta 
II ken, Ihan^kass'd, and \j_dken-an will he seen among 
the illustrations ; from which, by an unfortunate 
oversight, that of \a\kuhta has been omitted. 


Xll 


PEEFACE. 


The few texts in the language of the " Bushmen", 
calling themselves \ kuh, met with beyond Damaraland, 
which are given in the Appendix, are accompanied 
by as adequate an English translation as can at 
present be supplied. These texts were furnished by 
two lads, whose portraits will also be found among 
the illustrations. The extract given below, from 
the Bushman Beport of 1889, sent in to the Cape 
Government, will explain a little more about them. 
The additional signs required for the printing of the 
\kun texts are almost similar to those employed in 
printing the Specimens of Bushman Eolk-lore, but 
fewer in number. 

" It had been greatly desired by Dr. Bleek to 
u gain information regarding the language spoken by 
u the Bushmen met with beyond Damaraland; and, 
u through the most kind assistance of Mr. W. Coates 
u Palgrave (to whom this wish was known), two boys 
u of this race (called by itself jkun), from the country 
" to the north-east of Damaraland, were, on the 
u 1st of September, 1879, placed with us, for a time, 
u at Mowbray. They were finally, according to 
" promise, sent back to Damaraland, on their way 
" to their own country, under the kind care of 
u Mr. Eriksson, on the 28th of March, 1882. From 
u these lads, named respectively Inanni and Tamme, 
u much valuable information was obtained. They 
" were, while with us, joined, for a time, by 
" permission of the authorities, on the 25th of 
u March, 1880, by two younger boys from the same 
" region, named luma and Da. The latter was very 
" young at the time of his. arrival; and was believed 
u by the elder boys to belong to a different tribe of 
" jkun. luma left us, for an employer found for him 


PREFACE. 


Xlll 


u by Mr. George Stevens, on the 12th of December, 
u 1881, and Da was replaced in Mr. Stevens' kind 
u care on the 29th of March, 1884. The language 
u spoken by these lads (the two elder of whom, 
" coming from a distance of fifty miles or so apart, 
u differed slightly, dialectically, from each other) 
" proved unintelligible to I han^kass'd, as was his to 
" them. They looked upon the Bushmen of the 
u Cape Colony as being another kind of jkun; and 
u tfian^Jcass'd, before he left us, remarked upon the 
" existence of a partial resemblance between the 
" language of the Grass Bushmen, and that spoken 
" by the jkun. As far as I could observe, the 
" language spoken by these lads appears to contain 
u four clicks only; the labial click, in use among 
" the Bushmen of the Cape Colony, etc., being the 
" one absent ; and the lateral click being pronounced 
" in a slightly different manner. [*] The degree of 
u relationship between the language spoken by the 
" jkun and that of the Bushmen of the Cape Colony 
" (in which the main portion of our collections had 
" been made) has still to be determined. The two 
u elder lads were fortunately also able to furnish 
u some specimens of their native traditionary lore ; 
u the chief figure in which appears to be a small 
u personage, possessed of magic power, and able to 
" assume almost any form ; who, although differently 
" named, bears a good deal of resemblance to the 
u Mantis, in the mythology of the Bushmen. The 

[*] It will be observed that, in some instances, in the earlier- 
collected Ykun texts, given in the Appendix, the mark jj has been 
used to denote the lateral click, in words where this differed 
slightly in its pronunciation from the ordinary lateral click, ||. 
Later, this attempt to distinguish these two sounds apart was 
discontinued. 


X1Y 


PREFACE. 


" power of imitating sounds, both familiar and 
u unfamiliar to them, as well as the actions of 
u animals, possessed by these boys, was astonishing. 
" They also showed a certain power of representation, 
u by brush and pencil. The arrows made by them 
u were differently feathered, and more elaborately 
u so than those in common use among the Bushmen 
" of the Cape Colony." 

As the suggestion has been advanced that the 
painters and sculptors were from different divisions 
of the Bushman race, the following facts will be 
of interest. One evening, at Mowbray, in 1875, 
Dr. Bleek asked DiaXkivam if he could make pictures. 
The latter smiled and looked pleased; but what he 
said has been forgotten. The following morning, 
early, as Dr. Bleek passed through the back porch 
of his house on his way to Cape Town, he perceived 
a small drawing, representing a family of ostriches, 
pinned to the porch wall, as DiaXkwmts reply to 
his question. (See illustration thirty- three.) The 
same Bushman also told me, on a later occasion, that 
his father, aa-ttih , had himself chipped pictures of 
gemsbok, quaggas, ostriches, etc., at a place named 
I /cairn, where these animals used to drink before 

• O / 

the coming of the Boers. Some other drawings 
made by DiaXkwam , as well as a few by Wian^lcass'd, 
and the \kuh boys, will be found among the illus- 
trations. In the arrangement of these, it has not 
been easy to place them appropriately as regards 

* Taken from "A Short Account of further Eushman Material 
" collected. Ey L. C. Lloyd. — Third Eeport concerning Eushman 
" Researches, presented to both Houses of the Parliament of the 
"Cape of Good Hope". — London: David Hutt, 270, Strand, — 
1889. pp. 4 & 5. 





Ostriches (male, females, and young one). 



Kwa-kkw§ra gwai. 

Male. Otis afra t Lin. 


9 

Kwa-kkw§ra laityi. 
Female. 

Dial Jc whin, March , 1875. 



PREFACE. 


XV 


the text, as anything standing between text and 
translation would materially hinder the usefulness 
of the latter ; and, for this reason, the main portion 
of the illustrations will be placed at the end of the 
volume. 

To show the living activity of Bushman beliefs, 
the following instances may be given. Some little 
time after Dr. Bleek's death, a child, who slept in 
a small room by herself, had been startled by an 
owl making a sound, like breathing, outside her 
window in the night. This was mentioned to 
Dia\kwam , who said, with a much-pleased expression 
of countenance, did I not think that Dr. Bleek 
would come to see how his little children were 
getting on ? 

Later, I brought a splendid red fungus home from 
a wood in the neighbourhood of the Camp Ground, 
in order to ascertain its native name. After several 
days, fearing lest it should decay, I asked I hah^kastfo, 
who was then with us, to throw it away. Shortly 
afterwards, some unusually violent storms of wind 
and rain occurred. Something was said to him 
about the weather; and I hawAkass'd asked me if 
I did not remember telling him to throw the fungus 
away. He said, he had not done so, but had "put 
it gently down He explained that the fungus 
was "a rain's thing"; and evidently ascribed the 
very bad weather, we were then having, to my 
having told him to "throw it away". 

To Dr. Theal, for his most kind interest in this 
work, and for his untiring help with regard to its 
publication, to Professor von Luschan, for his kind 
efforts to promote the publication of the copies of 
Bushman pictures made by the late Mr. G. W. Stow, 


XY1 


PREFACE. 


to Herrn Regieningsbawneister a.d ., H. Werdelmann, 
for the copies of Bushman implements that he was 
so good as to make for us, to my niece, Doris Bleek, 
for her invaluable help in copying many of the 
manuscripts and making the Index to this volume, 
and to my niece, Edith Bleek, for much kind 
assistance, my most grateful thanks are due. 

L. C. LLOYD. 


Charlottenbtjrg, Germany. 
May, 1911 . 


CONTENTS. 


List of Illustrations ....... xxi 

Introduction ......... xxy 

A. MYTHOLOGY, FABLES, LEGENDS, AND POETRY. 

f. ,* I. The Mantis. 

The Mantis assumes the form of a Hartebeest ... 2 

\gaimu-tsaxdu (the son of the Mantis), the Baboons, and the 

Mantis . . . . . . . . .16 

The Story of the Leopard Tortoise 36 

II. Sun and Moon. 

The Children are sent to throw the sleeping Sun into the Sky 44 
The Origin of Death; preceded by a Prayer addressed to the 


Young Moon ........ 56 

The Moon is not to be looked at when Game has been shot . 66 

III. Stars . 

The Girl of the Early Bace, who made Stars . . .72 

The Great Star, \gdiinu, which, singing, named the Stars . 78 

What the Stars say, and a Prayer to a Star ... 80 

\k6-g\miih-tdra , wife of the Dawn's-Heart Star, Jupiter . 84 

III a. Other Myths. 

The Son of the Wind 100 

L kagara and J hdunu, who fought each other with Lightning . 112 

IY. Animat Fables. 

The Hyena's Bevenge ( First Version) . . . .122 

The Hyena's Bevenge ( Second Version) . . . .124 

The Lion jealous of the Yoice of the Ostrich . . .126 

The Besurrection of the Ostrich . . . . . .136 

Part of the preceding Tale parsed by Dr. Bleek . . .144 

The Yultures, their elder Sister, and her Husband . .154 

Ddi-xerreten, the Lioness, and the Children . . .162 

The Mason Wasp and his Wife ...... 170 

b 


XV111 


CONTENTS. 


V. Legends . 

PAGE 

The Young Man of the Ancient Race, who was carried off by 

a Lion, when asleep in the Eield . . . . .174 

A Woman of the Early Bace and the Bain Bull . . .192 

The Girl's Story; the Frogs' Story 198 

The Man who ordered his Wife to cut off his Ears . . 204 

The + nerru and her Husband . . . . . .206 

The Heath of the Lizard . . . . . . .214 

VI. Poetry. 

The Cat's Song 220 

The Song of the Caama Fox 222 

The Songs of the Blue Crane ...... 224 

The Old Woman's Song ( First Version ) .... 228 

A Song sung by the Star j gaunu, and especially by Bushman 

Women ......... 230 

Sirius and Canopus . . . . . . . .230 

The Song of the Bustard ....... 232 

The Song of the Springbok Mothers . . . . .234 

II Jcabbo's Song on the Loss of his Tobacco Pouch . . . 234 

The Broken String ........ 236 

The Song of \nii\numma-\hwiten ...... 238 

B. HISTORY (NATURAL AND PERSONAL). 

VII. Animals and their Habits — Adventures with them — 
and Hunting. 

The Leopard and the Jackal . . . . . .244 

Doings of the Springbok ....... 244 

Habits of the Bat and the Porcupine . . . . .246 

The Saxicola Castor and the Wild Cat 254 

The Baboons and WxabbitenWxdbbiten ..... 254 

A Lion's Story ......... 258 

The Man who found a Lion in a Cave ..... 260 

Certain Hunting Observances, called J nanna-sse . . .270 

J nanna-sse. Second Part. Further information ; particularly 

with regard to the Treatment of Bones . . . .274 

Tactics in Springbok Hunting 284 


CONTENTS. 


XIX 


PAGE 

Till. Personal History . 

j Jcabbo's Capture and Journey to Cape Town ( First Account ) . 290 

II Milo's Capture and Journey to Cape Town (Second Account ) 294 

I \Mblo's Journey in the Railw ay Train .... 298 

II Milo's Intended Return Home ...... 298 

How I han^Mss' o' s Pet Leveret was killed . . . .316 

The Thunderstorm ........ 320 

IX. Customs and Superstitions. 

Cutting off the Top of the Little Finger, and Piercing Ears 

and Nose . . ....... 328 

Cutting off the Top of the Little Finger ( Second Account ) . 330 

Bushman Presentiments . . . . . . .330 

Doings and Prayers when Canopus and Sirius come out . 338 

The Making of Clay Pots 342 

The Bushman Soup Spoon ....... 348 

The Shaped Rib Bone . 348 

The Bushman Drum and Dancing Rattles .... 350 

The use of the \goin\goih , followed by an Account of a 

Bushman Dance ....... 352 

Preparation of the Feather Brushes used in Springbok Hunting 358 

The Marking of Arrows 360 

The Adhesive Substance used by Bushmen in Making Arrows 362 
Mode of getting rid of the evil Influence of Bad Dreams . 364 

Concerning Two Apparitions ...... 364 

The Jackal's Heart not to be eaten . . . . .372 

II Tiara and Tt<\ ......... 374 

How Ttd is obtained . . . . . . . .378 

Signs made by Bushmen to show in which direction they 

have gone ......... 380 

Earth thrown into the air . . . . . . .384 

Death 388 

Appendix. 

A few | Jcuh texts with translation . . . . .404 

The Doings of \xue are many ...... 404 

Yarious Transformations of I xue, I j(Ue as I ndxcine . . . 404 

Further Changes of form ....... 404 

I xue as a II gui Tree and as a Fly ...... 406 


XX 


CONTENTS. 


| j(ue as Water and as other things. In his own form he rubs 


fire and dies ........ 406 

Prayer to the Young Moon. . . . . . .414 

The Treatment of Thieves . . . . . . .416 

The | xu (Pour pieces of Wood used for Divining Purposes) . 424 

Beating the Ground with a stone ..... 428 

Certain animals, when seen near graves, to be respected . 428 

A Snake which announces Death ..... 430 

Dr. Bleek's Report, etc., regarding Photographs sent to 

England by Government, December 23, 1871 . . 434 


Undated Pragment, found among Dr. Bleek's Papers, 

apparently written between 1870 and 1873 . . 439 

Letter from Dr. Bleek to the Secretary for Native Affairs . 439 

Report concerning Bushman Researches, by W. H. I. Bleek, 

Ph.D. Printed by order of the House of Assembly 

in 1873 441 

Index to Specimens of Bushman Folklore .... 449 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


1. Coloured Portrait of ||kabbo, Dr. Bleek's old 

Bushman Teacher .... 
From a Fainting by W. Schroder. 

2. Coloured Portrait of IhanLkass'o 

From a Fainting by W. Schroder. 

3. Photograph of Diajkwmn .... 

4. Photograph of Ikweften ta liken, sister to 

Dialkwaln . 

* ZZ) 

5. Photograph of Bushman Men and 'Women, 

including l^aken-an, who is fifth in 
the group ..... 
Taken at Salt River in 1884. 

6. Photograph of a Bushman, c . 

From the Breakwater. 

7. Pencil Frawing by Wah^lcass'd, showing the 

ravines and homes of the children 
in the story of Ddixerreten, the 
Lioness, and the Children. (See 
page 163.) The pencil sketch above 
belongs properly to the drawings 
made by the jkun boys . 

8. Photograph of Three Bushmen, l.d. 2 .d. 

and 3 .d. . l . . ; 

From the Breakwater . 

9. Photograph of a Grass Bushman 

Taken at Cape Town in 1880. 

10. Photograph of a Bushman Pamily 

Taken at Salt River in 1884. 

1 1 . Tactics in Springbok Hunting . 

Drawn by \hah^kass > 6. 

12. Photograph of Bushman Children 

Taken at Salt River in 1884. 

13. Photograph of Bushman Woman with 

Digging-stick . 

Taken at Salt River in 1884. 


Frontispiece. 
To precede page 1 
To face page 42 
„ „ 70 


98 

120 


33 33 


33 33 


33 33 


n )i 


33 >> 


33 33 


172 

172 

218 

242 

288 

288 


3 3 3 3 


326 


XXII 


LIST OE ILLUSTRATIONS. 


14. Photograph of Pour jkun Boys, Jnanni, 

Tamrne, luma, and Da . . To face page 402 

15. Group of Bushmen a. { See Appendix , page 437.) 

Photographed at the Breakwater Convict Station about 1871. 

1 5a. Key to Group a. 


(1) Ihankum, " Marcus." 

(2) Khauru, " Soopie." 

(3) jherri-i, " Oud Toontje." 

(4) Ixaitatin, u Lellerbayd* 

(5) Tshorru, " Cornells. " 

(6) Kusi, 11 Koos Pleitje." 

(7) j^wariitten, "Jacob hTel." 

(8) Gautarru, " Klaas." 

(9) jgubbu, " Coos Toontje. n 

(10) il^oe, "Adam Fix." 


(20) Rietfontein. 

(26) Strontbergen. 

(72) N.W. of Strontbergen. 
(28) Dr. Hahn. 

(34) Strontbergen. 

(22) Among Boers. 

(52) Witteklip. 

(28) N.W. of Strontbergen. 
(52) N.W. of Strontbergen. 
(67) Haarfontein. 


16. Group of Bushman b. 

Same men as the preceding. 

17. Photograph of ||kabbo. {Full face.) 

Taken at the Breakwater , 1871. 

18. Photograph of llkabbo. {Side face.) 

Taken at the Breakwater in 1871. 

19. jgoin-jgom. {See page 353.) 

Brawn by Herr H Werdelmann. 

20. Bushman Dancing Rattles. {Half size. See page 353.) 

Brawn by Herr H. Werdelmann. 

21. (1) Plaything made by jkun. 

(2) The Bushman Soup Spoon. {Nearly half size. See page 349.) 
Brawn by Herr H. Werdelmann. 

22. Instruments similar to jgoin-jgom, made by the jkun. 

Brawn by Herr H. Werdelmann. 

23. A shaped rib bone, used for eating certain food. {Two-thirds 

of actual size. See page 349.) 

Brawn by Herr H. Werdelmann. 

24. (1) Arrow made by the Jkun. {Half size.) 

(2) Bushman Arrow. {One- sixth actual size.) 

{a) Section showing red marks by which the arrows are 
recognized by Bushmen. 

Brawn by Herr H. Werdelmann . 

25. Hartebeest, Steinbok, Gemsbok, and Springbok. 

Brawn by I hah^kass 1 6 . 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


XX111 


26. Porcupines and Mierkats. A Jackal supposed to be chasing the 

latter. 

Brawn by | han-^Tcass'd. 

27. Porcupines, Anteater, and Birds called Lnerru. {See 

page 207.) 

Brawn by \ han^kass'd. 

28. Footprints of Porcupine at one of the entrances to its bole. 

28 a. The Mountains into which the jkhaii (a lizard of the 
genus Agama) was changed. {See page 215.) 

Brawn by I hah^hass'd. 

29. Blue Cranes and Ostrich. {See page 225.) 

Brawn by \ hah^Jcass'd. 

80. Bushman Huts. 

Brawn by \ handle as s' 6 . 

31. A " Water-bull". 

ry 

Brawn by Biaikwmn. 

32. Male and Female Gremsbok. 

Brawn by BiaYlcwtnn. 

33. Family of Ostriches. {See Preface, page xiy.) 

Brawn by BiaXkwam. 

33a. Bustards Male and Female. {See page 233.) 

Brawn by BiaXkwqui. 

34. Lizards of the Grenus Agama. {See page 215.) 

Brawn by Bia\Jcwmn. 

35. Male and Female Mantis. 

Brawn by BiaYkwain . 

36. I%ue. {See page 405.) 

Brawn by \ nanni. 

37. Ixue as the plant [na^ane. {See page 405.) 

Brawn by j nanni. 

38. I^ue as a tree by day and himself by night. 

Brawn by | nanni. 

39. I^ue as a llgui-tree. {See page 407.) 

Brawn by j nanni. 

40. I^ne as a Ikul-tree. 

Brawn by \nanni. 

41. Ix^e as a |kah-a. 

Brawn by j nanni. 

42. I^ue as an Elephant. 

Brawn by Tamme. 


XXIV 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


43. The llgue-tree, with a hollow in which rain-water has 

collected. {See pages 432 and 433.) 

Drawn ly \nanni . 

44. A little child asleep in the shade of a tree. 

Drawn ly \nanni. 

45. jganlganni or jgahlgaiinishe. 

Drawn ly \nanni. 

46. A Grave (the body is placed in a hole at the side). 

Drawn ly j nanni. 

47. Pieces of Wood shaped by the Ikuh, nsed by them for 

Divining. {Full she.) 

Drawn ly Herr H. Werdelmann. 

47 a. Eiresticks (used for rubbing fire). 

Drawn ly \nanni. 

48. Jgonllna (an edible root). 

Drawn ly Tamme. 

49. Ilhuru. A ground-plant. 

Apparently drawn ly Tamme. 

50. Least of Prey, Eish, and Tree. 

Drawn ly Tamme . 


INTRODUCTION. 

The Bushmen were members of a division of the 
human species that in all probability once occupied 
the whole, or nearly the whole, of the African 
continent. It would seem that they were either 
totally exterminated or partly exterminated and 
partly absorbed by more robust races pressing down 
from the north, except in a few secluded localities 
where they could manage to hold their own, and 
that as a distinct people they had disappeared from 
nearly the whole of Northern and Central Africa 
before white men made their first appearance there. 
Schweinfurth, Junker, Stanley, Yon Wissmann,* 
and other explorers and residents in the equatorial 

# The following volumes may be referred to : — 

Schweinfurth, Dr. Georg: The Heart of Africa, Three Years' 
Travels and Adventures in the Unexplored Regions of Central Africa , 
from, 1868 to 1871. Two crown octavo volumes, published in 
London (date not given). 

Junker, Dr. Wilhelm : Travels in Africa during the Years 1875— 
1886. Translated from the German by A. H. Keane, E.B.G.S. 
Three demy octavo volumes, published in London in 1890-2. 

Stanley, Henry M. : In Darkest Africa or the Quest , Rescue , and 
Retreat of Emin, Governor of Equator ia. Two demy octavo volumes, 
published in London in 1890. 

von Wissmann, Hermann : My Second Journey through Equatorial 
Africa from the Congo to the Zambesi in the Years 1886 and 1887. 
Translated from the German by Minna J. A. Bergmann. A demy 
octavo volume, published in London in 1891. 

Casati, Major Gaetano: Ten Years in Equatoria and the Return 
with Emin Pasha. Translated from the original Italian Manuscript 
by the Hon. Mrs. J. Bandolph Clay assisted by Mr. I. Walter 
Savage Landor. Two royal octavo volumes, published at London 
and Hew York in 1891. 

Burrows, Captain Guy : The Land of the Pigmies. A demy octavo 
volume, published in London in 1898. 


XXVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


regions, who have had intercourse with the pygmies 
still existing in the depths of the dark forest west 
of the Albert Nyanza, have given descriptions of 
these people which show almost beyond a doubt 
that they and the Bushmen of South Africa are 
one in race. All the physical characteristics are the 
same, if we allow for the full open eye of the 
northern pygmy being due to his living in forest 
gloom, and the sunken half-closed eye of the 
southern Bushman to his life being passed in the 
glare of an unclouded sun. 

The average height of adult male Bushmen, as 
given by Fritsch and other observers from careful 
measurement, is 144*4 centimetres or 56*85 inches. 
Yon Wissmann gives the height of some pygmies 
that he measured as from 140 to 145 centimetres, 
or about the same. 

Schweinfurth's description not only of the bodily 
but of the mental characteristics of his pygmy 
would hold good for one of the southern stock, 
Junker's photographs might have been taken on 
the Orange river ; and no one acquainted with 
Bushmen can read the charming account of the 
imp Blasiyo, given by Mrs. B. B. Fisher in her 
book On the Borders of Pygmy Land , without 
recognising the aborigine of South Africa. Whether 
he is blowing a great horn and capering under the 
dining-room window, or caning the big Bantu 
men in the class which he is teaching to read in 
the mission school at Kabarole, in order to make 
them respect him, the portrait in words which 
Mrs. Fisher has given of that exceedingly interesting 
pygmy is true to the life of one of those with whom 
this volume deals. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXY11 


But those isolated remnants of a race that there 
is every reason to believe was once widely spread 
do not offer to ethnologists such an excellent subject 
for study as might at first thought be supposed, for 
it would appear from the observations of travellers 
that they have lost their original language, though 
this is not altogether certain. Savages, though 
having the passions and the bodily strength of men, 
are children in mind and children in the facility 
with which they acquire other forms of speech than 
those of their parents. The rapidity with which 
a Bushman learned to speak Dutch or English, 
when he was brought into contact with white 
people in South Africa, was regarded as almost 
marvellous in the early days of the Cape Colony. 
And so the Bushmen or pygmies of the north, 
hemmed in by Bantu, although not on friendly 
terms with them, learned to speak Bantu dialects 
and may have lost their own ancient tongue. This 
is to be gathered from what travellers have related, 
but no one has yet lived long enough with them 
to be able to say definitely that among themselves 
they do not speak a distinct language, and use 
a corrupt Bantu dialect when conversing with 
strangers. But whether this be so or not, they 
must have lost much of their original lore, or it 
must at least have changed its form. 

South of the Zambesi and Kunene rivers, in 
addition to the Bushmen, two races had penetrated 
before our own. One of those was composed of 
the people termed by us Hottentots, who at a very 
remote time probably had Bushmen as one of its 
ancestral stocks, and certainly in recent centuries 
had incorporated great numbers of Bushman girls. 


XXV111 


INTRODUCTION. 


But these people never went far from the coast, 
though they continued their migrations along the 
border of the ocean all the way round from the 
Kunene to a little beyond the IJmzimvubu, where 
their further progress was stopped by the Bantu 
advancing on that side. Where they originally 
resided cannot be stated positively, but there is 
strong reason for believing that in ancient times 
they occupied the territory now called Somaliland. 
The references to Punt in early Egyptian history, 
and the portrait of the queen of that country so 
often described by different writers, may be men- 
tioned as one of the indications leading to this 
belief. Another, and perhaps stronger, indication 
is the large number of drilled stones of the exact 
size and pattern of those used by the Hottentots 
in South Africa — different in form from those 
manufactured by Bushmen — that have been found 
in Somaliland, an excellent collection of which can 
be seen in the ethnological museum in Berlin. 
The Hottentots, according to their own traditions, 
came from some far distant country in the north- 
east, and they cannot have crossed the Kunene 
many centuries before Europeans made their first 
appearance at the extremity of the continent. This 
is conclusively proved by the fact that the dialects 
spoken by the tribes in Hamaqualand and beyond 
Algoa Bay on the south-eastern coast differed so 
slightly that the people of one could understand 
the people of the other without much difficulty, 
which would certainly not have been the case if 
they had been many centuries separated. They 
had no intercourse with each other, and yet towards 
the close of the seventeenth century an interpreter 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXIX 


belonging to a tribe in the neighbourhood of the 
Cape peninsula, when accompanying Dutch trading 
parties, conversed with ease with them all. 

In our present state of knowledge it is impossible 
to say when the Bantu first crossed the Zambesi, 
because it is altogether uncertain whether there 
were, or were not, tidbes of black men in the 
territory now termed Bhodesia before the ancestors 
of the present occupants moved down from the 
north; but those at present in the country cannot 
claim a possession of more than seven or eight 
hundred years. When the Europeans formed their 
first settlements, the area occupied by the Bantu 
was small compared with what it is to-day, and 
a vast region inland from the Kathlamba mountains 
nearly to the Atlantic shore was inhabited exclusively 
bv Bushmen. That region included the whole of 
the present Cape province except the coast belt, the 
whole of Basutoland and the Orange Free State, 
the greater part, if not the whole, of the Transvaal 
province, and much of Betshuanaland, the Kalahari, 
and Hereroland. The paintings on rocks found in 
Southern Bhodesia at the present day afford proof 
of a not very remote occupation by Bushmen of 
that territory, but they give evidence also that 
the big dark-coloured Bantu were already there 
as well. 

By the Hottentots and the Bantu the Bushmen 
were regarded simply as noxious animals, and 
though young girls were usually spared and incor- 
porated in the tribes of their captors to lead a life 
of drudgery and shame, all others who could be 
entrapped or hunted down were destroyed with as 
little mercy as if they had been hyenas. On the 


XXX 


INTRODUCTION. 


immediate border of the Hottentot and Bantu 
settlements there was thus constant strife with the 
ancient race, but away from that frontier line the 
Bushmen pursued their game and drank the waters 
that their fathers had drunk from time immemorial, 
without even the knowledge that men differing from 
themselves existed in the world. 

This was the condition of things when in the 
year 1652 the Dutch East India Company formed 
a station for refreshing the crews of its fleets 
on the shore of Table Bay, a station that has 
grown into the present British South Africa. The 
Portuguese had established themselves at Sofala 
a hundred and forty-seven years earlier, but they 
had never penetrated the country beyond the Bantu 
belt, and consequently never made the acquaintance 
of Bushmen. From 1652 onward there was an 
opportunity for a thorough study of the mode of 
living, the power of thought, the form of speech, 
the religious ideas, and all else that can be known 
of one of the most interesting savage races of the 
earth, a race that there is good reason to believe 
once extended not only over Africa, but over a 
large part of Europe, over South-Eastern Asia, — 
where many scientists maintain it is now repre- 
sented by the Semang in the Malay peninsula, the 
Andamanese, and some of the natives of the Philippine 
islands, — and possibly over a much greater portion 
of the world's surface, a race that had made little, 
if any, advance since the far distant days when 
members of it shot their flint-headed arrows at 
reindeer in France, and carved the figures of mam- 
moths and other now extinct animals on tusks of 
ivory in the same fair land. It was truly an 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXI 


ancient race, one of the most primitive that time 
had left on the face of the earth. 

But there were no ethnologists among the early 
white settlers, whose sole object was to earn their 
bread and make homes for themselves in the new 
country where their lot was cast. They too soon 
came to regard the wild Bushmen as the Hottentots 
and the Bantu regarded them, as beings without 
a right to the soil over which they roamed, as 
untamable robbers whom it was not only their 
interest but their duty to destroy. They took 
possession of the fountains wherever they chose, 
shot the game that the pygmies depended upon for 
food, and when these retaliated by driving off 
oxen and sheep, made open war upon the so-called 
marauders. It was impossible for pastoral white 
men and savage Bushmen who neither cultivated 
the ground nor owned domestic cattle of any kind 
to live side by side in amity and peace. And so, 
slowly but surely, the Europeans, whether Dutch 
or English, extended their possessions inland, the 
Hottentots — Koranas and Griquas, — abandoning the 
coast, made their way also into the interior, and 
the Bantu spread themselves ever farther and 
farther, until to-day there is not an acre of land 
in all South Africa left to the ancient race. Every 
man's hand was against them, and so they passed 
out of sight, but perished fighting stubbornly, 
disdaining compromise or quarter to the very 
last. There is no longer room on the globe for 
palaeolithic man. 

When I say every man's hand was against them, 
I do not mean to imply that no efforts at all were 
ever made by white men to save them from absolute 


XXX11 


INTRODUCTION. 


extinction, or that no European cast an eye of pity 
upon the unfortunate wanderers. On more than 
one occasion about the beginning of the nineteenth 
century benevolent frontier farmers collected horned 
cattle, sheep, and goats, and endeavoured to induce 
parties of Bushmen to adopt a pastoral life, but 
always without success. They could not change 
their habits suddenly, and so the stock presented to 
them was soon consumed. The London Missionary 
Society stationed teachers at different points among 
them, but could not prevail upon them to remain 
at any one place longer than they were supplied 
with food. In the middle of the same century 
the government of the Orange River Sovereignty 
set apart reserves for two little bands of them, 
but by some blunder located a Korana clan between 
them, and that effort failed. Then many frontier 
farmers engaged families of Bushmen to tend their 
flocks and herds, which they did as a rule with 
the greatest fidelity until they became weary of 
such a monotonous life, and then they wandered 
away again. Other instances might be added, but 
they all ended in the same manner. The advance 
of the white man, as well as of the Hottentots and 
the Bantu, was unavoidably accompanied with the 
disappearance of the wild people. 

On the farms where a number of Bushman 
families lived white children often learned to speak 
their language, with all its clicks, and smacking 
of the lips, and guttural sounds, but this knowledge 
was of no use to anyone but themselves, and it 
died with them. They were incompetent to reduce 
it to writing, and too ill-educated to realise the 
value of the information theyjpossessed. Here and 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXX111 


there a traveller of scientific attainments, such as 
Dr. H. Lichtenstein, or a missionary of talent, such as 
the reverend T. Arbonsset, tried to form a vocabulary 
of Bushman words, but as they did not understand 
the language themselves, and there were no recognised 
symbols to represent the various sounds, their lists 
are almost worthless to philologists. 

So matters stood in 1857, when the late 
Dr. Wilhelm H. I. Bleek (Ph.D.), who was born 
at Berlin in 1827, and educated at the universities 
of Bonn and Berlin, commenced his researches in 
connection with the Bushmen. He was eminently 
qualified for the task, as his natural bent was in 
the direction of philology, and his training had 
been of the very best kind, in that he had learned 
from it not to cease study upon obtaining his 
degree, but to continue educating himself. For 
many years after 1857, however, he did not devote 
himself entirely, or even mainly, to investigations 
regarding the Bushmen, because of the difficulty 
of obtaining material, and also because he was 
intently engaged upon the work with which his 
reputation as a philologist must ever be connected, 
A Comparative Grammar of South African Languages . 
In this book he deals with the Hottentot language 
and with the Bantu, the last divided into a large 
number of dialects. In 1862 the first part of his 
valuable work appeared, in 1864 a small volume 
followed entitled Reynard the Fox in South Africa , 
or Hottentot Fables and Tales , and in 1869 the first 
section of the second part of his Comparative 
Grammar was published. That work, regarded by 
everyone since its issue as of the highest value, and 
which must always remain the standard authority 


XXXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


on its subject, was never completed, for in 1870 
a favourable opportunity of studying the Bushman 
language occurred, of which Dr. Bleek at once 
availed himself, knowing that in the few wild people 
left he had before him the fast dying remnant of 
a primitive race, and that if any reliable record 
of that race was to be preserved, not a day must 
be lost in securing it. 

To abandon a work in which fame had been gained, 
which offered still further celebrity in its prosecu- 
tion, and to devote himself entirely to a new object, 
simply because the one could be completed by some- 
body else at a future time, and the other, if neglected 
then, could never be done at all, shows such utter 
devotion to science, such entire forgetfulness of self, 
that the name of Dr. Bleek should be uttered not only 
with the deepest respect, but with a feeling akin to 
reverence. How many men of science are there 
in the world to-day who would follow so noble an 
example ? 

The task now before him was by no means a simple 
or an easy one. The few pure Bushmen that re- 
mained alive were scattered in the wildest and most 
inaccessible parts of the country, and it would have 
been useless to search for them there. A traveller 
indeed, who was prepared to live in a very rough 
manner himself, might have found a few of them, 
but his intercourse with them would necessarily 
have been so short that he could not study them 
thoroughly. But, fortunately for science, unfortu- 
nately for the wretched creatures themselves, the 
majesty of European law had brought several of 
them within reach. That law, by a proclamation of 
the earl of Caledon, governor of the Cape Colony, 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXY 


issued on the 1st of November 1809, had confounded 
them with the Hottentots, and made all of them 
within the recognised boundaries British subjects, 
but had placed them under certain restraints, which 
were intended to prevent them from roaming about 
at will. It had very little effect upon the wild 
people, however, who were almost as difficult to 
arrest on the thinly occupied border as if they had 
been baboons. Then, in April 1812, by a proclamation 
of Governor Sir John Cradock, their children, when 
eight years of age, if they had lived on a farm since 
their birth, were apprenticed by the local magistrate 
for ten years longer. In this proclamation also they 
were confounded with Hottentots, and it really had 
a considerable effect upon them, because it was no 
uncommon circumstance for Bushman parents to leave 
their infant children on farms where they had been in 
service, and not return perhaps for a couple of years. 

By a colonial ordinance of the 17th of July 1828 
all restraints of every kind were removed from these 
people, and they had thereafter exactly the same 
amount of freedom and of political rights as Europeans. 
It seems absurd to speak of Bushmen having political 
rights, for their ideas of government were so crude 
that their chiefs were merely leaders in war and the 
chase, and had no judicial powers, each individual 
having the right to avenge his own wrongs ; but so 
the law determined. It determined also that the 
ground upon which their ancestors for ages had 
hunted should be parcelled out in farms and allotted 
to European settlers, and that if they went there 
afterwards and killed or drove away an ox or a score 
of sheep, they could be sentenced to penal servitude 
for several years. It seems hard on the face of it, 


XXXY1 


INTRODUCTION. 


but progress is remorseless, and there was no other 
way of extending civilisation inland. The pygmy 
hunter with his bow and poisoned arrows could not 
be permitted to block the way. 

But he, though he could not argue the matter, 
and regarded it as the most natural thing in the 
world for the strong to despoil the weak, being the 
feeble one himself resented this treatment. He was 
hungry too, terribly hungry, for the means of suste- 
nance in the arid wastes where he was making his 
last stand were of the scantiest, and he longed for 
meat, such meat as his fathers had eaten before the 
Hottentots and the big black men and the white 
farmers came into the country and slaughtered all 
the game and nearly all of his kin. And so he 
tightened his hunger belt, and crept stealthily to 
a hill-top, where he could make observations without 
anyone noticing him, and when night fell he stole 
down to the farmer's fold and before day dawned 
again he and his companions were gorged with flesh. 
When the farmer arose and discovered his loss there 
was a big hunt as a matter of course. Man and 
horse and dog were pressed into the chase, and yet 
so wily was the little imp, so expert in taking cover, 
and it must be added so feared were his poisoned 
arrows, that it was a rare thing for him to be captured. 
Once in a while, however, he was made a prisoner, 
and then if it could be proved that he had killed 
a shepherd he was hanged, but if he could be con- 
victed of nothing more than slaughtering other men's 
oxen and sheep he was sent to a convict station for 
a few years. 

So it came about that Hr. Bleek found at the 
convict station close to Capetown several of the men 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXY11 


lie wanted. There were two in particular, whose 
terms of imprisonment had nearly expired, and who 
were physically unfit for hard labour. The govern- 
ment permitted him to take these men to his own 
residence, on condition of locking them up at night 
until the remainder of their sentences expired. After 
they had returned to the place of their birth, two 
other Bushmen were obtained, who ere long were 
induced to proceed to their old haunts and prevail 
upon some of their relatives to accompany them 
back again, so that at one time a whole family could 
be seen on Dr. Bleek's grounds. 

The material was thus obtained to work with, but 
first the language of the primitive people had to be 
learned, a language containing so many clicks and 
other strange sounds that at first it seemed almost 
impossible for an adult European tongue to master it. 
To this task Dr. Bleek and his sister-in-law Miss 
Lucy C. Lloyd, who had boundless patience, untiring 
zeal, and a particularly acute ear, devoted themselves, 
and persevered until their efforts were crowned with 
success. Symbols w r ere adopted to represent the 
different sounds that are foreign to the European 
ear, and then it became possible to take down the 
exact words used by the Bushman narrators and to 
have the manuscript checked by repetition. 

Before the results of such prolonged labour were 
ready for publication, but not until a very large 
quantity of valuable matter had been collected, to the 
great loss of students of man everywhere Dr. Bleek 
died, 17th of August 1875. Miss Lloyd then con- 
tinued during some years to collect further material 
from various individuals of the Bushman race, and 
after adding greatly to the stock on hand at her 


XXXY111 


INTRODUCTION. 


brother-in-law's death, in 1887 she proceeded to 
Europe with a view to arranging it properly and 
publishing it. For nine years she endeavoured, but 
in vain, to carry out this design, the subject not 
being considered by publishers one that would attract 
readers in sufficient number to repay the cost of 
printing, as that cost would necessarily be large, 
owing to the style of the Bushman text. In 1896 
Messrs. Swan Sonnenschein & Co. undertook to get 
out a volume, but then, unfortunately, Miss Lloyd 
fell ill, and her impaired strength has since that 
time delayed the completion of the work. It has 
only been at long intervals and by dint of much 
exertion that what is here presented to the reader, 
with much more that may perhaps follow, has been 
got ready. This is a brief account of the manner 
in which the material was collected, and of the 
causes which have delayed its publication for so 
many years. It would be quite impossible to 
gather such information now. 

As to the value for scientific purposes of the 
contents of this volume, a great deal might be 
stated, but it cannot be necessary to say much 
here, as the book speaks for itself. The religion 
of the Bushmen is made as clear from their own 
recitals as such a subject can be, when it is 
remembered that the minds of the narrators were 
like those of little children in all matters not con- 
nected with their immediate bodily wants. Their 
views concerning the sun, moon, and stars seem 
utterly absurd, but a European child five or six 
years of age, if not informed, would probably give 
no better explanation. Their faith too, that is, 
their unreasoning belief in many things that to an 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXXIX 


adult European seem ridiculous, is seen to be that 
of mere infants. Every reader of this book has 
gone through the same stage of thought and mental 
power him or herself, and our own far remote 
ancestors must have had beliefs similar to those 
of Bushmen. The civilised European at different 
stages of his existence is a representative of the 
whole human species in its progress upward from 
the lowest savagery. We may therefore pity the 
ignorant pygmy, but we are not justified in 
despising him. 

On many of their customs a flood of light is 
thrown in this volume, but I shall only refer to 
one here. In the early Dutch records of the Cape 
Colony there is an account of some Bushmen eating 
almost the whole of an animal, the intestines 
included, rejecting only two little pieces of flesh 
containing the sinews of the thighs. When 

questioned, concerning this, they merely replied 

that it was their custom not to eat those parts, 
beyond which no information is given. Who could 
have imagined the cause of such a custom ? They 
had devoured parts tougher to masticate, so it 
certainly was not to spare their teeth. That is all 
that could be said of it, but here in this volume 

the reason is given, and how well it fits in with 

the belief of the wild people that certain men and 
animals could exchange their forms, that some 
animals in former times were men, and some men 
in former times were animals. 

Probably, however, the value of this volume 
will be greatest to the philologist, as the original 
Bushman text, which will be unintelligible to the 
general reader, is printed side by side with the 


xl 


INTRODUCTION. 


English translation. Students of the growth of 
language have thus the means of ascertaining how 
ideas were expressed by a race of people so low 
in culture as the Bushmen. Their vocabulary, it 
will be seen, was ample for their needs. What 
is surprising is that, though they had no word 
for a numeral higher than three, and though the 
plurals of many of their nouns were formed in 
such a simple manner as by reduplication, their 
verbs were almost, if not quite, as complete and 
expressive as our own. The myths indicate a people 
in the condition of early childhood, but from the 
language it is evident that in the great chain of 
human life on this earth the pygmy savages repre- 
sented a link much closer to the modern European 
end than to that of the first beings worthy of the 
name of men. 

GEO. McCALL THEAL. 

London, 1911 . 




YhayfiA-kass'o 


From a painting by W. Schroder 


A. MYTHOLOGY, FABLES, LEGENDS, 
AND POETRY. 


1. The Mantis. 


2 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLOBE. 


I.— 13. 

B. 

IKAGGEN DI IK'WA. 

O • 

(2281) Ikdggen Iku a Ikdrruwa jkauken, hah di jk'wa, 

t 

han llkeillkei jk'wa a Ikuka. Han Ikuken ddauddau 
fuhitin Ikauken, an Ikaukaken l^kwa lla ; au han ka, 
(2282) ikauken ( ) se la ha an llkurru, an jkaukaken yauki 
Iki jgwatten. 

jkauka Ine Ini ha, au han jgoujgduwa tta ha, au ha 
(2283) IlkeillkSiyah i u. jkankaken kkakka hi ( ) Ikagen : 
"Ik'wa kah Ike ta, ha Ikuka." Ikaukaken Ikwe-i : 
" 1, sita jk'wa ; si se ha a jkerri." Hih Ikwdlkwd hho 
(2284) !lkuttenllkiitten,^hih j^ao Ikaggen. Ikaggen( )ttuwah 
ikaiTokenlkarroken sutten Thin hi an Ikauken 

• d o • d © o • o 

l^kalwka. Hih +kakka hi Ikagen: " jkann llwiyaki 
an jk'wa ttu." jkwakogen 4kakken : " jk'wa ttu kah 
Inon n." 

(2285) ( ) Ha llka^aiten +kakken : "He ti, hi tan e, Jk'wa 

yauki Iki ttwi !, au je e l^a ha ; ta jk'wa llkhoa llei, 
ha Ikuken. Ta jk'wa llkwan lluwa, jk'wagen yduki 
(2286) ( ) Iki l^al^aga ttwi." 

Ha llka^aiten llg(5a hh(5 jk'wa llgai, hah llko lla hi. 

t 

* Hin Ikwe au Ikaukko. 

D3 


THE MANTIS IN POEM OF A HAETEBEEST. 


3 


L— 13. 

B. 

THE MANTIS ASSUMES THE FORM OF 
A HARTEBEEST. 

The Mantis is one who cheated the children, by (2281) 
becoming a hartebeest, by resembling a dead harte- 
beest. He feigning death lay in front of the children, 
when the children went to seek gambroo (I km, a 
sort of cucumber) ; because he thought (wished) that 
the children ( ) should cut him up with a stone knife, (2282) 
as these children did not possess metal knives. 

The children perceived him, when he had laid 
himself stretched out, while his horns were turned 
backwards. The children then said to each ( ) other: (2283) 
"It is a hartebeest that yonder lies; it is dead. 57 
The children jumped for joy (saying) : " Our harte- 
beest ! we shall eat great meat." They broke off 
stone knives by striking (one stone against another ),* 
they skinned the Mantis. ( ) The skin of the Mantis (2284) 
snatched itself quickly out of the children's hands. 

They say to each other: "Hold thou strongly fast 
for me the hartebeest skin ! " Another child said : 

" The hartebeest skin pulled at me." 

( ) Her elder sister said: "It does seem that the (2285) 
hartebeest has not a wound from the people who shot 
it; for, the hartebeest appears to have died of itself. 
Although the hartebeest is fat, (yet) the hartebeest 
has ( ) no shooting wound." (2286) 

Her elder sister cut off a shoulder of the harte- 
beest, and put it down (on a bush). The hartebeest's 
shoulder arose by itself, it sat down nicely (on the 


* They break oil, by striking with one stone against another. 


4 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IkVa llgditen lie, hih ui ; hih ss'oen akken, au hih 
(2287) Iku akken hi. Hail Ikau hh(5 IkVa tte, ( ) hah llko 
Ha hi ; hiil ui, hin Ikonn akken llko hi au Oho. Hah 
Ikau hho [kVa llgdiko, hah llkau llko hi au Oh6. Hih 
(2288) ui, hih ss'oen Oho a tt'ain ; au hih tatti, Oh6 ( ) 
llken-1 hi. 

t 0 m 

Ha llka^aikogen Ikau Ikam jkVa tteko. Hih 
kkakken, ti e : " IkVa a a, ha eh-^h dda Ine ddarra- 

O j • o 7 3 3 


ken^ ; he Toa e, hi +k<5-i, i." 

(2289) Hih di Ikammen ; jkukogen ( ) tkakka jkuko : 


" Ikao jkwa IkVa jkhou, ll^aOua se Ikdmmen jkVa 
Ina ; ta, lika^ai Ike ssho, ha se ^wain tti [kVa ll^kde, 
(2290) ha a jkuila ( ) jkerri. Ta i Iku ss'e Ikammen j^wdrri; 
ta i Iku sah la hho IkVa a a. Ha en-^h ddarraken ; 

D • O DO/ 


(2288') 


* jkauken ddoa l 4voa, ti e : " jk'waka eh |ne ddarraken. " 
jk'waka ehyan |ne ||ke|jkeya jk'wa yauki e; ta, jk'waka en |ne 
||ke||keya jkmta en, kin ddarraken. 

/ 

jkuita an |jnau jkuko 1^1 ka, jgaokaken |e ka en-en, jeten |ne 

t # # J__ 

jkau jkwa kaka a, au kin Ikau Skin ui jgaoken-ka ttwl ttu. jeten 


(2289') l ne Nk6 II® Ikuita a; kin ssko-ko ddarraken, au a-ka ttikdken ( ) 
ddarraken |eta ka en-en, — he, ka |kf-ssh5, 1, — he, je |kau jkwa hi. 
Hin e, |ne ddarraken |eta ttwi ttu, au an tatti e, a tta K. He ti 
kin e, a Iku ddarraken, au an tatti e, a jauwa; ke e, ka tta If, I. 
Au jkuften tatti, ka kkun If, ka en-en- ta-k ugen tta If, au kin tatti, 
hi |ku jauwa. Ti e, ka |kuken kwokwon-a, 1, kin e, ka en-en |ne 
(2290') tta Au hin tatti, ki yao, ( ) ka en-en-yan Ine jkwa. He 

ti kin e, ka en-en Ine Ikuken, 1. 


THE MANTIS IN FORM OF A HARTEBEEST. 


5 


other side of the hush), while it placed itself nicely. 

She (then) cut off a thigh of the hartebeest, ( ) and (2287) 
put it down (on a bush) ; it placed itself nicely on 
the bush. She cut off another shoulder of the harte- 
beest, and put it upon (another) bush. It arose, and 
sat upon a soft (portion of the) bush ; as it felt that 
the bush (upon which the child had laid it) ( ) (2288) 
pricked it. 

Another elder sister cut off the other thigh of the 
hartebeest. They spoke thus : " This bartebeest's 
flesh does move ; * that must be why it shrinks 
away." 

They arrange their burdens; one ( ) says to the (2289) 
other: u Cut and break off the hartebeest ? s neck, so 
that (thy) younger sister may carry the hartebeest's 
head, for, (thy) yonder sitting elder sister, she shall 
carry the hartebeest's back, she who is a big girl. 

( ) For, we must carrying return (home); for, we (2290) 
came (and) cut up this hartebeest. Its flesh moves ; 

* The children truly thought that the hartebeest' s flesh moved. (22 88') 
The hartebeest's flesh seemed as if it was not hartebeest ; for, the 
hartebeest' s flesh was like a man's flesh, it moved. 

(As regards) a man's flesh, when another man shoots him, the 
poison enters the body. The people cutting break away his flesh, 
while they cutting take away the mouth of the poisonous wound. 

The people set aside the man's flesh ; it remains quivering, while 

the other part of the flesh ( ) moves (quivers) in his body, — that (2289 ? ) 

(flesh) which he sits in (literally " which he possesses sitting "), — 

that which the people cutting broke. This it is which moves in 

the (cut out) wound's mouth, while the flesh feels that the flesh 

is warm. Therefore, the flesh moves, as (while) the flesh (feels 

that the flesh) is alive ; hence it is warm. As (while) the man 

(feels that he) warms himself at the fire, all his flesh is warm, while 

it (feels that it) lives. The thing (reason) on account of which he 

really dies is that his flesh feels cool. While it feels that it is 

cold, ( ) his flesh becomes very cold. This is the reason why his (2290 J ) 

flesh dies. 


6 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2291) 

(2292) 

(2293) 

(2294') 

(2294) 

(2295) 

(2296) 


haka aka Ikarroken ssutten f kin hi au i lika. latta 

•DO O 

hi Ine lie, hih Ikann akki." 

Hih ( ) Ikammen hhd Ikaggen-ka 6n; hih dkakka 
jkwa : u Ikanxmehya jk'wa ina, oa sse lla Ilka Ihoa hil 
hi," Ikwah ^hwain IkVa Ina, hah l^ke ha llka^uken : 
u Skarin hhui n; dd6 ( ) (kVa Ina ^auki Ha 

llkavukaken Ikann hhd ha. 

/V o 

Hih tai Iku lia, hih Ikuiten. Ik'wa Inan llkoe, au 
Ikaggen Indn Ige, hi Ikhe jau. ( ) jkwan hhon hi, 
lk ? wa Inan Ikdm ui Jhau an Ik'wa ts'^du. jkVa In&n 
kwditenkwfeen, hah dkakken kweitenkw&ta Ikwa : 
"+kwa-wwe! +ha& kan +dun dkhe h ts'a^au. Ikam 
(5a-ki +hau; +hau kan +khe kh&h-a h ts'a^&u." * 
( ) Ikwcih ddditen; Ikdkkaken ts'unn Ikwa. Ikwah 
Skdfruh, ha llkd^aiten ddditen ha. Ha lika^aiten 
Iwke ha : " Tai ( ) ss'&u jkuss'a; i jkiiiten." 

Ikwah kkui: " Ik'wa a, ha Ina kaii dda dkakken." 
Ha llka^aiten Iwke ha: " Ilkhweillkhw6ita Ikuss'a; 
i tai. A-^au ddaindddinya ( ) ss'a au jk'wa Ina ? " 
ikwdh dkdkka ha llka^ai : " jk'wa kah ts'iinn li au 
Sk'wa ts'a^du ; Ik'wagen sin ka, h Ikdm u jhati au ha 


(2294') 


* Mantis speech, translated into common Bushman thus : " jkhwa- 
wwej jhau kan |auh jkhe n ts'a^au. Ikam oa-ki |h5u; jhfu kan 
Ikhe Ihan-a n ts'a^au." 


THE MANTIS IN FORM OF A HARTEBEEST. 


7 


its flesh snatches itself out of our hand, \dtta ! * it 
of itself places itself nicely." 

They ( ) take up the flesh of the Mantis ; they say (2291) 
to the child : " Carry the hartebeest's head, that 
father may put it to roast for you." The child slung 
on the hartebeest's head, she called to her sisters : 

" Taking hold help me up;f this ( ) hartebeest's (2292) 
head is not light." Her sisters taking hold of her 
help her up. 

They go away, they return (home). The harte- 
beest's head slips downwards, because the Mantis's 
head wishes to stand on the ground. ( ) The child (2293) 
lifts it up (with her shoulders), the hartebeest's 
head (by turning a little) removes the thong from 
the hartebeest's eye. The hartebeest's head was 
whispering, it whispering said to the child : "0 
child ! the thong is standing in front of my eye. 

Take away for me the thong ; the thong is shutting 

my eye." ( ) The child looked behind her; the (2294) 

Mantis winked at the child. The child whimpered ; 

her elder sister looked back at her. Her elder sister 

called to her: "Come( ) forward quickly ; we return (2295) 

(home)." 

The child exclaimed: " This hartebeest's head is 
able to speak." Her elder sister scolded her: " Lying 
come forward; we go. Art thou not ( ) coming (2296) 
deceiving (us) about the hartebeest's head ?" 

The child said to her elder sister: " The hartebeest 
has winked at me with the hartebeest's eye ; the 
hartebeest desired that I should take away the thong 

* This seems to be an exclamation, the meaning of which is not 
yet known to the editor. 

f The child lay upon her back upon the hartebeest's head. 


8 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2297) ts'a^&u. He ( ) >oa e, jkVa Ina ll^koSnllwkoenya 
tfnunta n ts ? e;£u." 

Ikwah ddaiten jkVa Ina, jk'wagen dddbba-i. jkwah 
(2298) tkakka ha llka^ai : u Ik'wa Ina ( ) kan ^oa dda jduwa ; 
th hi Iku Ine ddabba-i." 

Ik wan ttaitthiya-tti kuerre jhau ; Ikwah jku ti 
(2299) Ik'wa Ina. Ikakkaken l^ke Ikwa, hah ( ) lilln ha Ina. 
Hah Iwke Jkwa: "llli n lnaj # lnu+kui©uawwe,f lala-ki 
an h Inal." 

Ha llkaj/ukaken Jkulkuti Ikaggen eh-en. Ikaggen- 
(2300) ka ( ) ehyah +hau+hau ll^ke, hih kkili *ua*ua au 
Ikaggen llwkde. Ikaggen loan kkui +udku Jaun Jkhe 
(2301) Ikhggen Ikhou. Ikaggen ( ) Jkhdugen kkui luaku 
Jbuh Jkhd Ikaggen j^a. Ikaggen J^ah kkui +ubku 
Jkhd Ikhggen ll^kde. Ikdggen tteh +hdu uss J a,J hih 
(2302) kkui +uakussm ( ) Ikdggen ll^koe. Ha ttekogen 
jku^e liss'a ; au hin bbai, hih kkui tuakussin Ikdggen 
(2303) Hwkoe ka tikko. Ikdggen Jka^uken Jku;/e ( ) uss'a, 
hih kkiii +uakussm Ikaggen J^a Jkap^u. Ikhggen 
llgaiyaken Jku^e liss'a, hih kkiii ludkussfh Ikaggen 

(2299 ? ) * Ha |ku i llliui au ha Ina. 

f Mantis's pronunciation of "Inti Jkui'OuawwO." 

Sswa-ka ll^kaoll^kao. 

Au Ssw^-ka-jkui Jywainya Jkuk5, hih e, ha ka " |nti Jkui" 
(l|ke||keya Inussa Je) au Jkuk5 |ke. Hah ||nau ha kkoka |kiik5, 
hah ka " |ken " ; hah ka " ||kan-o," au hi kkoka hi Ikagen. 
(2301 ') + Ikaggen tten +hau uss'a ||ke||keya Jgl 


THE MANTIS IN POEM OP A HARTEBEEST. 


from his eye. Thus it was that ( ) the hartebeest's (2297) 
head lay looking behind my back." 

The child looked back at the hartebeest's head, the 
hartebeest opened and shut its eyes. The child said 
to her elder sister: u The hartebeest's head ( ) must (2298) 
be alive, for it is opening and shutting its eyes." 

The child, walking on, unloosened the thong ; the 
child let fall the hartebeest's head. The Mantis 
scolded the child, he ( ) complained about his head. (2299) 
He scolded the child : " Oh ! oh ! my head ! * Oh ! bad 
little person ! f hurting me in my head." 

Her sisters let fall the flesh of the Mantis. The 
flesh of the Mantis ( ) sprang together, it quickly (2800) 
joined itself to the lower part of the Mantis's back. 

The head of the Mantis quickly joined (itself) upon 
the top of the neck of the Mantis. The neck of the 
Mantis ( ) quickly joined (itself) upon the upper part (2301) 
of the Mantis's spine. The upper part of the Mantis's 
spine joined itself to the Mantis's back. The thigh 
of the Mantis sprang forward, $ it joined itself to the 
( ) Mantis's back. His other thigh ran forward, (2302) 
racing it joined itself to the other side of the Mantis's 
back. The chest of the Mantis ran ( ) forward, it (2303) 
joined itself to the front side of the upper part of the 
Mantis's spine. The shoulder blade of the Mantis ran 
forward, it joined itself on to the ribs of the Mantis. 

* He was merely complaining about his head. / 2299'^ 

f Mantis pronunciation of \nn \kuiQua wwi. The cursing of v 
the Plat Bushmen. When a Plat Bushman is angry with another, 
then it is that he is wont to say | nu \kuz, resembling 1 nfissa \e 
(the name hy which the Plat Bushmen call the Grass Bushmen), 
for the other one's name. When he loves another person he is 
wont to say ' mate ' ; he is wont to say ' brother ' when they love 
each other. 

X The Mantis's thigh sprang forward like a frog. 


10 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2304) lino ihtu. Skaggen Ilgaikogen ( ) Iku^e uss'a, an hiii 
tdtti e, Skdggen Saunlaun Sku koa tua+ua, au kin bbai. 
(2305) jk&ukaken Inauhko Sku^e 11a; ban Ikn ( ) jyatten- 
jydtten ui, au ban kbai Ikauken, — an ban Iku Ine 
lurru, — an ba Inan Ine kuorrekuorre, — au han tatti, 
(2306) ba Sku Sne e ( ) Skui. He ti bin e, ba Iku Ine Ikann- 
Skdnn an Skiijku, au ban Iku Ine butten % a au ba llgai. 

Han ll^koen, ti e, Ikauken Iku jkdi lla llnein ; ban 
(2307) ( ) wwi Ikbe, bail biittenbutten kui jgwai au !ku(i)rri. 
Han Sian Ikammijkammi kkdrre Ikbe jku(i)rri; ban 
Sian kkan Skhwain ttiii. Han ! Ikuiten I 'bin llnein 

• • o 

(2308) ( )Sl^a^u e Ibarra ; ban jkuiten jkd \h6 ss'a llnein. 

Skdukaken tkakken, ti e : u Si tan llaii doa Ini tte 
(2309) Sk'wa a Skuka. Ha jk'wa, bail a, si la ( ) ha au 
IlkuttenlSkutten ; haka eh ddarraken. Ik'wa-ka enyan 
Iku SkdrrokenlkdiToken ssutten I'bin bi au si i^kal^kd. 

• o • o o 

(2310) Iliii Sku 111, bin ( ) Ikdnnlkann dkken llko hi au 
Ohdken e aken; au Ik'wagen t&tti e, Ik'wa lna y6& 
sse ddduko kwditenkwditen. Au Ikwa a ssho, ban 
(2311) ikammenya hi, ( ) bin Ikakken+kakka llnuii |kbe 
Ikwa ts'ln^u." 

Ikwah +kakka ba oa: " Ibbo-wwe ! A kail ss'<5 
ka, Sk'wa lna ^au Sku +kdkka-ke? Au jk'wa Indn 
(2312) tatti e, ( ) hi y<5a Sku Ine ll^koSn Iki n llkdrru, au h 


THE MANTIS IN FORM OF A HARTEBEEST. 


11 


The ( ) other shoulder blade of the Mantis ran forward, (2304) 
while it felt that the ribs of the Mantis had joined 
themselves on, when they raced. 

The children still ran on ; he (the Mantis, arose 
from the ground and) ( ) ran, while he chased the (2305) 
children, — he being whole, — his head being round, — 
while he felt that he was ( ) a man.* Therefore, he (2306) 
was stepping along with (his) shoes, while he jogged 
with his shoulder blade, f 

He saw that the children had reached home; he 
( ) quickly turned about, he, jogging with his shoulder (2307) 
blade, descended to the river. He went along the 
river bed, making a noise as he stepped in the soft 
sand; he yonder went quickly out of the river bed. 

He returned, coming out at ( ) a different side of the (2308) 
house {i.e. his own house) ; he returned, passing in 
front of the house. 

The children said: "We have been (and) seen 
a hartebeest which was dead. That hartebeest, it 
was the one which we cut up ( ) with stone knives ; (2309) 
its flesh quivered. The hartebeest's flesh quickly 
snatched itself out of our hands. It by itself was ( ) (2310) 
placing itself nicely upon bushes which were comfort- 
able ; while the hartebeest felt that the hartebeest's 
head would go along whispering. While the child 
who sits (there) carried it, ( ) it talking stood behind (2311) 
the child's back." 

The child said to her father : "O papa ! Dost 
thou seem to think that the hartebeest's head did not 
talk to me ? For the hartebeest's head felt that ( ) (2312) 
it would be looking at my hole above the nape of the 

* He became a man while he was putting himself together 
again. 

f With his left shoulder blade, he being a left-handed man. 


12 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


t&i lla ; h6 e, jk'wa Ina Ine +kdkka-ke, h Ikam 6a ha 
jhau an ha ts'a^au. Ta, jhhh jaun tta ha ts'a^au." 

(2313) ( ) Ha 6aken *kakka-hl : "U-bba, sin ss'e Iku 

51a, la hho jkoih Ikaggen, au hah Ikuken ddanddaXi 
luhitta li ? " 

• o 

(2314) Jkaukaken tkakken : " Si ( ) tan tatti e, jk'wa llkei- 
llkgi llkudh llna, Ik'wagen llkuan Iki Ikuki. Ik'wagen 
a, >auki Iki Inwa-ka ttwl ; au ik'wagen tatti e, IkVa 

(2315) y«5a ( ) sse Ikakken, He ti hih e, jk'wa Ine ssan 
Sku^e si, au sften ka llko-u jk'wa en-en. jk'wa en- 

(2316) 6hyah Iku Ine +hauthau-i, an hiii +hau+hau ( ) jkdnn 
llwe, hi se Igui, hi se Igui Iguijkann ll^e au jk'wa 
ll^kde. jk'wa llbkdeten ll^am Jkotten. 

(2317) " H6 ti hih e, Jk'wa Iku Ine jku^e ( ) uss'a, au ha 

eh-enyah Ine jklya, au hah yauki Ine Iki Ikuken 
(Ikuken e, ha sin Ikitta 1), au hah Ine jkatten jhou 
kkui ywan jkuf. 

(2318) u He ti hih ( ) e, ha Ine llwkoen ti e, si Iku Ine 
Ik6iss'a llnein, hah Iku Ine wwt jkh6. Hah Iku Ine 
Skw6rrelkworre Iho Ikulkii, au ha Ine Ikattenlkatten 

(2319) ( ) Ilk 6a Ikh6 lla, au Horn Ine Ikei juhissho ha 
jnbajnoah/^u, au hah jkatten jkatten bbaya Jku(i)rri 
Ilkdi-6, ha se llnuh hho Ikao Iketa, ha tsl." 

(2320) Ha okenguken ( )+kakka jkauken: "TJ kah Iku e, 
llah la Ikilki jko'ih llkandoro. Han 1 a sin Ikwa- 
Ikwarra I 'hih ss'a ti 1 e ." 

(2321) Jkdukaken Ikdkka hi ( ) 6kengu : " Ha llkwan sin 
kk6koa, hah jyf-a. Hah Ikw6iten ywan, ha se Ine 1 


THE MANTIS IN FORM OF A HARTEBEEST. 


13 


neck, as I went along ; and then it was that the 
hartebeest's head told me that I should take away 
for him the thong from his eye. For, the thong lay 
in front of his eye." 

( ) Her father said to them : u Have you been and (2313) 
cut up the old man, the Mantis, while he lay pre- 
tending to be dead in front of you ? " 

The children said: "We ( ) thought that the (2314) 
hartebeest's horns were there, the hartebeest had hair. 

The hartebeest was one which had not an arrow's 
wound ; while the hartebeest felt that the hartebeest 
( ) would talk. Therefore, the hartebeest came and (2315) 
chased us, when we had put down the hartebeest' s 
flesh. The hartebeest's flesh jumped together, while 
it springing ( ) gathered (itself) together, that it (2316) 
might mend, that it might mending hold together to 
the hartebeest's back. The hartebeest's back also 
joined on. 

" Therefore, the hartebeest ran( ) forward, while his (2317) 
body was red, when he had no hair (that coat of hair 
in which he had been lying down), as he ran, swinging 
his arm like a man. 

u And when ( ) he saw that we reached the house, (2318) 
he whisked round. He ran, kicking up his heels 
(showing the white soles of his shoes), while he 
running ( ) went before the wind, while the sun shone (2319) 
upon his feet's face (soles), while he ran with all his 
might into the little river (bed), that he might pass 
behind the back of the hill lying yonder." 

Their parents ( ) said to the children : " You are (2320) 
those who went and cut up the old man ' Tinderbox- 
Owner.' He, there behind, was one who gently 
came out from the place there behind." 

The children said to their ( ) fathers : " He has (2321) 


14 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2322) lkh& I'hin ss'd Ikaoka ti Iketa; an hah ll^ko£h ( ) ti 
e, si Iku Ine lk^ tau jk^i ss'a llnein. 

" An O&^aiOpud a, ha doa a, (kVa Ina dauko 
(2323) +kakka-ha ; he e, ha Ine +k&kka-si. He ti ( ) hih e, 
si Ikn Ine jkiijkn te Ik'wa eh-^h ; siten Ikn Ine +gammi- 
+gdmmi te jnuijnui, si se |kn%e-ss J i llkdkkenllkakken. 
(2324) " ( ) An ha eh-dhyan Ine Jknjkn^e jkdnn llbke an 

ha llwkde, hin Ikn Igui kni jkajka. Hah Iku jku%e 
(2325) ti-ss ? a, hah Ikn Ine Igeilgeiten ( ) llkd ssi. He ti hih 
e, si Ik we Ika, siten ll'uwa 1 an jkn%e a, ha jku%eya si 
a, ha, ha Iku Ine i jg^ijg^iten. 

(2326) " He ti hih e, ( ) ha Ikn Ine kkui Jgwai an jku(i)rri, 

— an hah ka, ha se jgeijgditen k^rre |khd |kn(i)rrL 
He ti hih e, ha Ine Ikwe Ika, hah ll^koka \k£i I'hih 
(2327) ss ? a, ( ) an si Ine tta ss'o au ll'h ; an han tatti e, ha 
Ine Ikhwilkhwf siten. An han tatti, J&taku Ine llwkoen 
(2328) ha, an siten sin Ikammen ss'a ha ttette, ( ) an hah 
llan Ikuken luhiten ssi ; au hah ka, si se tta-a ll'u e a, 
an jkwa a a, han sin Ikammenya ha Ina,— hah ll^koen 
(2329) +na jhda. Hah llkeillkdiya, ha ( ) Ikuka ; hah Ine 
dahba-f : hah Ine kan +kakken+kakka-ta. Hah 

' o 

+kakken, an hah Igiii ha eh- eh ; ha Inan +kakken, au 
(2330) hah Igui ha eh-en. ( ) Ha Inan +kakka jkei ss ? a ha 
ll^koe ; hih ss'an Iguahn j(k)anh Ikhd, hih jkotten. 

et Hah !kn%e u-ss J a ; han Ike, ss'an jkhwilkhwisiten 
ssho, au siten sin la Iki ha an llkuttenllkutten. 
(2331) ( ) latta, ha Ikn llan Ikuken ddauddah juhitih-ssi, si 
se Ikwe Iki, si jkh%e. 


THE MANTIS IN FOEM OF A HAETEBEEST. 


15 


gone round, lie ran fast. He always seems as if lie 
would come over the little hill lying yonder when he 
sees ( ) that we are just reaching home. (2322) 

11 While this little daughter, she was the one to 
whom the hartebeest's head, going along, talked ; and 
then she told us. There( )fore, we let fall the harte- (2323) 
beest's flesh ; we laid our karosses on our shoulders, 
that we might run very fast. 

u ( ) While its flesh running came together on its (2324) 
back, it finished mending itself. He arose and ran 
forward, he, quickly moving his arms, ( ) chased us. (2325) 
Therefore, we did thus, we became tired from it, on 
account of the running with which he had chased us, 
while he did verily move his arms fast. 

u Then( ) he descended into the small river, — while (2326) 
he thought that he would, moving his arms fast, run 
along the small river. Then he thus did, he, picking 
up wood, came out; ( ) while we sat, feeling the (2327) 
fatigue ; because he had been deceiving. While he 
felt that all the people saw him, when we came 
carrying his thigbs, ( ) when he went to die lying in (2328) 
front of us ; while he wished that we should feel this 
fatigue, while this child here, it carried his head, — 
he looked up with fixed eyes. He was as if he ( ) (2329) 
was dead ; he was (afterwards) opening and shutting 
his eyes ; he afar lay talking (while the children were 
running off). He talked while he mended his body ; 
his head talked, while he mended his body. ( ) His (2330) 
head talking reached his back ; it came to join upon 
the top (of his neck). 

u He ran forward ; he yonder will sit deceiving 
(at home), while we did cut him up with ( ) stone (2331) 
knives (splinters). 1 a-tta ! he went feigning death to 
lie in front of us, that we might do so, we run. 


16 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


"He ll'u, hin Iku e, si ta-i hi ; he, si lilt ssosoken, 
(2332) f. ( ) He ti hih e, si yauki sail l»kua ; ta, si Iku 
Slk6aken II na llnem." 

o o 


I.— 5. 

L . 

IGAUNU-T&A^AU, IHUIHU, HE IKAGGEN. 

(Belated, in 1878, by lhan+kass'o, who heard it from his mother, 
Ixabbi-an.) 

/ ft 

(6978) Igaunu4sa;£au # llkuan ha 6a t^amma ha oa a jkkwa- 
Ikkwaiten ; ha oa sse llkharro-a Ik'd e Ikatilkau luhilukf 
(6979) jkhe Ikukenlkuken. Han ha Ine t^amma ( ) jke lla 
hi, an kin ha-a lla. H6 taken e, Ikulku a, kan ka-a, 
11^1 hoa, hail e ll^etten liua, kan a, jg^iunu-tsa^au Ine 
Ikd ssa ka. H6 taken e, laa ka Ine tutu Jgaunu-tsa^ak, 
(6980) i. He ( ) Igaunu-tsa^au Iku-g Ine +kakka ha a, tf 
e, ka ddoa t^amma ka 6a k jkkwajkkwaiten ; ha oa 
sse llkkarro-a Ik'e e Ikaulkau lukiluki Ikk6 Ikuken- 

• •• • o • o • • o 

Ikuken. H6 taken e, ka ka Ine kuif : " Hat, Ine ssa 
(6981) ( ) tumma Iku a a." He jkukko ka Ine kiu: 

" jhamm j|eten-||eten 

o o o 

D Kan ttumm, 

|ku a ke. 

jhamm Heten-lleten 
Kail ttumm, 

!kd a ke." 


(6978') 

(6981') 


* Ikaggen Opuon llkuan e jgaunu-tsaxau. 

ft / 9 

f K ssin Iku +kakken n-n ka +kakken£kakken, au kaken tatti e, 
Ihulhu ka +kakken+kakken yauki ywi. 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


17 


u This fatigue, it is that which we are feeling ; and 
onr hearts burnt on account of it. ( ) Therefore r we (2332) 
shall not hunt (for food), for we shall altogether 
remain at home." 


I.— 5. 

! GAUNU-TSAXAU (THE SON OF THE MANTIS), 
THE BABOONS, AND THE MANTIS. 


\gaunu-tsayau % formerly went to fetch for his (6978) 
father sticks, that his father might take aim at the 
people who sit upon (their) heels. Fetching, he( ) (6979) 
went up to them (the baboons) as they were going 
along feeding. Therefore, a baboon who feeding 
went past him, — he who was an older baboon, — he 
was the one to, whom Xgaunu-tsajgm came. Then he 
questioned \gaunu-tsa%au. And ( ) \ gaunu-tsqjgm (6980) 
told him about it, that he must fetch for his father 
sticks, that his father might take aim at the people 
who sit upon (their) heels. Therefore, he (the baboon) 
exclaimed f : " Hie ! Come ( ) to listen to this child." (6981) 
And the other one said : 

li First going 

I listen, 

To the child yonder. 

First going 

1 listen, 

To the child yonder." 


* \gmnu-tsqxjm was a son of the Mantis. 

f "1 must (the narrator here explained) speak in my own 
language, because I feel that the speech of the hahoons is 
not easy." 


(6978') 

(6981') 


c 


18 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


He, ha ha Ine jkhe ssa I. Hah ha Ine kui: 66 jkhu 
(6982) a ha ;£a te da?" He ( ) jkhwa ha Ine kui: U ET kan 
ddoa +^amma ibo k j khwa jkhwalten, ibo sse llkharro-a 
lk'6, e jkaujkau juhijuhi jkh6 jkukenjkuken." H6 
(6983) tiken e Ihulhu ha Ine kui: ( ) " Ine I^k6ya jkoin, Ik6 
ke, ha Ine ssa ttu Ikhwa a." He tiken e Ihulhu ha 

7 j— / ~ ° = 

Ine kdi : u Hai, Ine ssa ttu Iku a a." H6 tiken e 
Ikukko ha Ine kui : 

• D 

" Ihamm lleten-lleten 

• o o o 

3 Kan ttumm, 
jkhwa a ke.'' 

(6984) ( ) He, ha h| Ine jkhe ssa, hah ha Ine kui: " jkhwa 
a te da ? " He Ikukko ha Ine kui : " jkhwa a, ha 
kan ka, hah l^/ke, ha jkatta ha 6a 4 jkhwajkhwaiten, 
(6985) ha 6a sse llkharro-a jke e jkaujkdu ( ) juhijuhi jkhe 
jkdkenjkuken." He Ihulhu a a, ha Ine kui: " Ine l^keya 
jkoin Ike ke, ha Ine ssa ttu jkhwa a." H6 tiken e, 
Ihulhd a a, ha Ine kui : " jku-ww6 juhd, Ine ssa 
(6986) ttumm-a jkhwa H6 tiken e, jkuko ( ) ha Ine kui : 

" jhamm ||eten-||eten * 

3 Kan ttumm, 
jkhwa a ke." 

He ha ha Ine jkhe ssa. Hah M Ine kui: u jkhwa 
a, ha te da?" f He jkukko ha Ine kui: jkhwa 
(6987) a kan ka hah Iwke, ha jkatta ha 6a ( ) d jkhwa- 
jkhwaiten, ha oa sse jkharro-a jk'6 e jkdujkdu juhijuhi 
Ikh6, Ikukenlkiiken. t H6 tiken e, Ihulhu a, ha Ine 

• J . a • o " o / l 3 


(6986') 


* According to the narrator, the above should be, in Baboons' 
manner of speaking, as follows : 

" I Ihamm lleten-lleten 

• O • 0*0 

3 Kan ttumm, 
jlkhd&k£." 

f " jlkhd a ha £a da ? " 

J 11 jlkhd a, ha kan ka, hah j Ike, ha jlkatta ha oa a jlkhwa- 
jlkhwalten, ha oa sse jlkharro-S jlkl e jlkaujlkau jluhijluhi jlkhe, 
ilkukenjlkuken." 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


19 


And he reached them. He said : " What does this 
child say?" And ( ) the child said: "I must fetch (6982) 
for my father sticks (bushes ?), that my father may 
take aim at the people who sit upon (their) heels." 

Then the baboon said: ( ) "Tell the old man (6983) 
yonder that he must come to hear this child." Then 
the baboon called out: "Hie! Come to hear this 
child." Then the other one said : 

" First going 
I listen, 

To the child yonder." 

( ) And he came up (to them) ; he exclaimed : " What (6984) 
does this child say ? " And the other one answered : 

" This child, he wishes, he says, to fetch sticks for his 
father, that his father may take aim at the people 
who sit ( ) upon (their) heels." And this baboon (6985) 
said: " Tell the old man yonder that he must come 
to hear this child." Then this (other) baboon called 
out : "0 person passing across in front ! come to 
listen to this child." Therefore, the other one ( )(6986) 
said: 

" First going 
I listen, 

To the child yonder." 

And he came up (to them). He said : " What does 
this child say ? " And the other one answered : 

" This child wants, he says, to fetch ( ) sticks * for his (6987) 
father, that his father may take aim at the people 
who sit upon (their) heels." Therefore, this baboon 

* In a paper entitled " A Glimpse into the Mythology of the 
Maluti Bushmen," which appeared in the Cape Monthly Magazine 
for July, 1874, written by Mr. J. M. Orpen (at that time Chief 
Magistrate, St. John's Territory), we find, on p. 8, that the 
Mantis sent one of his sons to cut sticks to make bows, and that 
he was caught and killed by the baboons. 


20 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


kill : "I-i llkuan e; dken llkuan sse l^keya jkoin lk6 

(6988) k&, ha sse ssa tumm jkhwa k" ( ) He tfken e, Ihiilhii 
a a, Iku-g Ine kiii : " 6 w6 ! Ine ssa ttumm-a jkhwa a." 
H6 tfken e, Ikiikko ha Ine kiii : 

" jhamm lleten-lleten 
3 Kan ttumm, 
jkhwit k kA" 

(6989) Han jke lla ( ) jk'e kkiiiten, !. Hah ha Ine kiii : 
" jkhwa a ha fa t6 da ? " He jkukko a hd Ine kui: 
u jkhwa a, ha kan ka, hah Iwke, ha jkdtta # ha 6a & 
jkhwajkhwaiten, ha 6a sse llkharro-a jk'e e jkdujkau 

(6990) juhijnhi jkh6 ( ) jkukenjkiiken.", H6 tfken e Ihiilhu 
a a, ha Ine kui : " 0 ho,+ i llkuan 6. Aken llkuan sse 
arruko Iwk6ya jkoin Ike ke, ha sse ssa, tumma jkhwa a." 

(6991) He jkukko ha Ine kui: ( ) u jkfi wwej juha, Ine ssa 
tumm -a Ikhwa d." He Ikukko hd Ine kui : 

• • D 

" lhamm lleten-lleten $ 

• O Q o 

Kan ttumm, 
jkhwa a ke." 

(6992) He, ha ha Ine jkg lla jk ? e kkiiiten, hah ha Ine ( ) 
kui: " jkhwa a ^a te da?" He jkukko ha Ine kui: 
u jkhwa a, ha kan ka, hah l^ke, ha jkdtta ha oa a, 
jkhwajkhwaiten, ha 6a sse llkharro-a jk'e e jkaujkau, 
juhfjuhf jkhe hi jkukenjkuken." 

(6993) ( j He tfken e, ha Ihiilhu, — ha tatti e, ha ha a Ihiilhu 


(6989') 

(6990 J ) 

(6991') 


* Ha ddoa Iketa ha ©puon, ha ©puon sse lla, dda ha £ tchuen. 
N llkuan +i, ti e, jkhwajkhwaiten llkuan e. Ha llkuan ka ha 
©puon lla ddd ha £ hi, ha sse ssa t§bba hi, ha sse dda Ihulhu la. 

f In Baboons' language as follows : — " Oho, Ui jlkuan e. Aken 
Jlkuan sse arruko jlkeya j|k6'm j|ke ke, ha sse ssa, ttumm jlkhft a a." 
J " jlku wwe, jluha, line ssa ttumm-a Jlkhu a." 

§ " j lhamm jleten-jleten 
3 Kan ttumm, 
jlkhu k ke." 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


21 


exclaimed : " It is ourselves ! Thou shalt tell the 
old man yonder that he shall come to listen to this 
child." ( ) Therefore, this other baboon called out : (6988) 
"Ho! come to listen to this child." Then the other 
one said : 

" First going 
I listen, 

To the child yonder." 

He came up to ( ) the other people on account of (6989) 
it. He said: "What does this child say?" And 
the other one answered: "This child, he wants, he 
says, to fetch * sticks for his father, that his father 
may take aim at the people who sit upon (their) ( ) (6990) 
heels." Therefore, this baboon exclaimed (with a 
sneering kind of laugh) : " Oho ! It is ourselves ! 

Thou shalt quickly go to tell the old man yonder, 
that he may come to listen to this child." And the 
other one called out: ( ) "0 person passing across (6991) 
in front ! come to listen to this child." And the 
other said : 

" First going 
I listen, 

To the child yonder." 

And he went up to the other people; he ( ) said: (6992) 
"What does this child say?" And the other one 
answered: "This child, he wants, he says, to fetch 
sticks for his father, that his father may take aim at 
the people who sit upon their heels." 

( ) Then that baboon, — he felt that he was an old (6993) 

* Note by the narrator. He bad sent his son, that his son (6989') 
should go to construct things for him. I think that they were 
sticks (hushes ?). He wished his son to go (and) make them for 
him, that he might come (and) work them, in order that he might 
make war upon the baboons. 


22 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ikerri. — -he tfken e, ha ha Ine kui, an lkukk<5ken ka ha 
kkii: u jkhwa a kah ka, hah l^ke, ha jk&tta ha (5a a, 
(6994) jkhwajkhw&iten , J ' ( ) h.6 tfken e, Ikiikko M Ine kui : 
" Tsa ra, i-f lhamm e: i llkuah e. liken llkuah sse 
jgw&a jkhwa. J? 

H£ tfken e, hi M Ine jgwai jgaunn-tsa^au, i; hi 
(6995) Ine jgwf ssi, jnajn&ka Ina. ( ) He Ikiikko Ine jgwa 
kill Ikaiyu Ihin jgaimn-tsa^ah tsa^M ; he jkhwa tsa^au 
ha Ine Ikuei Iki, hin Ik&bbuken lla. H4 tfken e, Ihu- 
(6996) Ihu a, ha Ine kui : "1ST ka jkhumm! n ka ( ) jkhumm!" 
H4 tfken e, hi M Iku-g Ine llkhb jkhumm, # au jkhwan 
Iku-g Ine Ikuka, jkhwan Iku-g Ine ta. Hin ha Iku-g 
Ine kui : 

"Hen +kaowa Hi, 

Deken ta jkhumm e. 

(6997) ( ) Hen +kaowa hi, 

Ddeken ta jkhumm e. 

He h +kaowa hi." 

Ik'S kkuftaken Ine ta : 

• © 

" N llwken ta jkhumm e, 

He n +kaowa h|, 

N ll^ken ta jkhumm e, 

(6998) ( ) He n tkabwa hi," 

au hi ha jkhumma llna, au jkhwa tsa^au. 

Ikdkkaken ha Iku jka Iki jkhwa. H^ tfken e, Ik&ggen 
ha Ine tten, i, au llkuanna. H4 tfken e, Ikaggen ha 

* llkuah jkhumm -i : , 

" NT ka llkhuomm, 

NT ka jlkhuomm e, 

He h jlkabwa hi. 

N jlken ta jlkhuomm e, 

He h jlkabwa hi, 

N liken ta jlkhuomm, 

He h jlkabwa hi." 


(6996') 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


23 


baboon, — therefore, he said, when the other one had 
said, "This child wanted, he said, to fetch sticks for 
his father," ( ) therefore the other one (the old baboon) (6994) 
exclaimed: "What? it is we ourselves ; ourselves it 
is ! Ye shall strike the child with your fists." 

Therefore, they were striking \gmnu-tsaym with 
their fists on account of it ; they hit with their fists, 
breaking (his) head. ( ) And another struck with (6995) 
his fist, knocking out \gaunu-tsq%au 7 s eye; and the 
child's eye in this manner sprang (or rolled) away. 

Then this baboon exclaimed: "My ball! my ( )(6996) 
ball ! " Therefore, they began to play a game at 
ball,* while the child died ; the child lay still. They 
said (sang) : 

" And I want it, 

Whose ball is it? 

( ) And I want it, (6997) 

Whose ball is it? 

And I want it." 

The other people said : 

"My companion's ball it is, 

And I want it, 

My companion's ball it is, 

( ) And I want it," (6998) 

while they were playing at ball there with the 
child's eye. 

The Mantis was waiting for the child. Therefore, 
the Mantis lay down at noon. Therefore, the Mantis 


* (They) were playing at ball. (6996') 

" My ball, 

My ball it is, 

And I want it. 

My companion's ball it is, 

And I want it, 

My companion's ball, 

And I want it." 


24 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(6999) Ine llkhabbo-i ( ) jkhwa, i ; ti e, Ihiilhii e Ikha jkhwa ; 

t 9 

hi ine ddf jkhumm au jkhwa tsa^au ; hah Ine lla 
Ihulhu, au Ihulhiiken Jkhwuriima llna, au jkhwa tsa^au. 

Hd tiken e, ha ha Iku-g Ine ui, i. Hah ha Iku-g 
(7000) Ine ho ( ) llkhwdi, han Iku-g Ine juhdi jho llkhwai; 
hah ha Iku-g Ine kui : llndkka Ikhe lie* llndkka Ikhe 
lid, au han tdtti e, ha hd ka ssih i ya, ha hd ka llndkka 
jkhe He. Hd tik^n e, ha hd llnau, hah jkhai Ihin ssa, 
(7001) ( ) hah Iku Ini Ihulhu ka jk'au, au Ihulhiiken jkhumm a 
llna, au jkhwa tsa^ah. Hd tiken e, Ikaggen ha Ine 
) J wa, l, au ti e, Ihulhu llkuah y6 a jkei lloii, hin Ikhd 
(7002) jkhwa. Hd tiken e, hi jkhumma ( ) llna, au Jkhwa 
tsa^ah. He tiken e, ha ha llnau, hah Jkhai Ihin ssa, 
hah Ini Ihulhu ka jk'au, au Ihulhiiken jkhumma llna, 
au jkhwa tsa^au. Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine >*wa, i. 
(7003) He, ha ( ) hd Ine antau Ikam lii ha ttu ; hah Ine lumm 
kiii dkken llwei, ha tsa^aiten au jkhwdten; au hah 
ka Ihulhu ssah ^auki Ini jkhweta llna ha tsa^aiten; 
(7004) ti e, ha ^da ssih ^wda ( ) ssa, hin e, ha tsa^aiten Iki 
jkhwdten ; ha sse lid, jkhumma, hi Ihulhu, au ha 
tsa^dita >*auki Iki jkhwdten. 

Hd tiken e, ha ha Iku-g Ine jk'dtten, jke ssa Ihulhu, 
(7005) au Ihulhiiken Ine lu ha; ( ) au hin tdtti, hi ja a.t 
Hd tiken e, ha hd llnau, Ihulhiiken kku ssih, hi lu ha, 

(7000') * jnwa llkuan e, jnwa e leta llkhw^t; hin Iku llnakken, au hin 

tatti e, hi ddarraken llkhoeta. He tiken e, ha Ine ta : " Inakka 
4kht III ; Inakka +khi III." 

(7005') f Hin yauki Ikweiten Ine Ini ha; he ti hin e, hi lu ha, i. 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


25 


was dreaming about ( ) the child, that the baboons (6999) 
were those who had killed the child ; that they had 
made a ball of the child's eye ; that he went to the 
baboons, while the baboons played at ball there 
with the child's eye. 

Therefore, he arose; he took up ( ) the quiver, he (7000) 
slung on the quiver ; he said, " Rattling along,* 
rattling along," while he felt that he used formerly 
to do so, he used to say, " Rattling along." Then, 
when he came into sight, ( ) he perceived the baboons' (7001) 
dust, while the baboons were playing at ball there 
with the child's eye. Then the Mantis cried on 
account of it, because the baboons appeared really 
to have killed the child. Therefore, they were 
playing at ball ( ) there with the child's eye. (7002) 
Therefore, when he came into sight, he perceived 
the baboons' dust, while the baboons were playing 
at ball there with the child's eye. Therefore he 
cried about it. And he ( ) quickly shut his mouth; (7003) 
he thoroughly dried the tears from his eyes, while he 
desired that the baboons should not perceive tears in 
his eyes; that he appeared to have ( ) come crying, (7004) 
hence tears were in his eyes ; so that he might go to 
play at ball with the baboons, while his eyes had no 
tears in them. 

Then he, running, came up to the baboons, while 
the baboons stared at him, ( ) because they were (7005) 
startled at him.f Then, while the baboons were still 
staring at him, he came running to a place where he 


* The arrows they were, the arrows which were in the quiver ; (7000') 
they made a rattling noise, because they stirred inside (it). There- 
fore, he said, "Eattling along, rattling along." 

f They were not in the habit of seeing him; therefore they (7005') 
stared at him. 


26 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


hah ha Iku jkatten ssa au ti e, hah Iku ttd llkhwai; 
( 7006 ) hah Iku Iki Ihin jnuin, hah Iku llkho Jnuin, hah ( ) Iku 
jkann, llnoo Ihin jnabbe, a ha ssin le jhda ha, au Ilh6, 
hah Iku ttdrokenttdroken jnabbe, hah ha Iku llkhudrriten 
jkhumm. Hah hd Iku l^ke Ihulhu, tsa a Ihulhu lii ha 
( 7007 ) a, au Ihulhuken >*auki ( ) llkhudrriten jkhumm, Ihulhu 
sse jk'alta ha a. 

He tiken e, Ihulhu ha Ine jkwejkwella hi Ikagen, au 
hih tdtti, hi llkiya, tsa a, ha Ikueida a. Hd tiken e, 
( 7008 ) ha ha ka Iku Ikea jkhumm, au jkhumm ( ) wa Iku 
I llkhouwa Ihulhu kko, au Ihulhu a, ha Iku jk'dlta 
jkukko jkhumm. Hd tiken e, jkhwa tsa^au hd llnau, 
jkhwa tsa^auken tdtti e, hi kui +ka, au ha da Iwkwai, 
( 7009 ) ( ) hin h§L Iku-g Ine yu wa ttih; Ihulhuken hd Iku-g 
Ine Ikilkiya ttdn hi. Hd tiken e, Ihulhu a jkwai, ha 
Iku a Ine Ikei hi ; hah Ine jk'alta jkukko hi. Hd tiken 
( 701 0 ) e, Ikaggen ha Iku-g ( ) Ine ! ssuken Ihin ti e, Ikdkkaken 
Iku-g Ine Ikd'i jkhwa tsa^au, Ikdkkaken ha Iku-g Ine 
kui j^abbu Ikam jkhwa tsa^au. Hd tiken e, Ikdggen 
Iku-g Ine ttdrokenttdroken jkhwa tsa^ah, I; hah Ine 
( 7011 ) ( ) llhudbbaken jkhwa tsa^ah au ha l^karalwkdra-ttii. 
Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine jk'alta Ihulhu jkhwa tsa^au, 
jkhwa tsa^auken ha Ine Iku llkaiten, jkhwa tsa^auken 
( 7012 ) ha Ine Iku ^uwa ja ttih jgwd^u; ( ) Ihulhuken ha 
Iku-g Ine ll^kodnya ki ja ttin hi, au hih ha Iku-g Ine 
ytiwa ja ttih jgwd^u. He jkhwa tsa^au ha Ine Iku 
llah kah jgwd jkhe llkhwai ; hih Ine Iku llkhoa hi 
( 7013 ) ikhdbbuken ( ) jkhal Ihin llkhwai, au hih le jkhe, 
llkhwai ta llhd.* 

(7013 J ) * Ha llkuan llhin, ja Ilkh6a llho-Opua, au llkhwai; he tiken e, 
ha Ine e, llkhwai ta llho; au han tatti e, Ilho-Opua a llhin jd 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


27 


laid down the quiver; he took off (his) kaross (i.e. 
skin cloak), he put down the kaross, he, ( ) grasping, (7006) 
drew out the feather brush which he had put into 
the bag, he shook out the brush, he played with (?) 
the ball. He called out to the baboons, why was it 
that the baboons were staring at him, while the 
baboons did not ( ) play with (?) the ball, that the (7007) 
baboons might throw it to him. 

Then the baboons looked at one another, because 
they suspected why he spoke thus. Then he caught 
hold of the ball, when the ball ( ) had merely flown (7008) 
to another baboon, when this (the first) baboon had 
thrown the ball to the other. Then the child's eye, 
because the child's eye felt that it was startled (?), 
on account of his father's scent, ( ) it went playing (7009) 
about ; the baboons trying to get it, missed it. Then 
one baboon, he was the one who caught hold of it, 
he threw it towards another. Then the Mantis ( )(7010) 
merely sprang out from this place, the Mantis caught 
hold of the child's eye, the Mantis, snatching, took 
the child's eye. Then the Mantis whirled around 
the child's eye; he ( ) anointed the child's eye with (7011) 
(the perspiration of) his armpits. Then he threw 
the child's eye towards the baboons, the child's eye 
ascended, the child's eye went about in the sky ; 

( ) the baboons beheld it above, as it played about (7012) 
above in the sky. And the child's eye went to stand 
yonder opposite to the quiver ; it appeared as if it 
sprang ( ) over the quiver, while it stood inside the (7013) 
quiver's bag.* 

* He tied, placing a little bag at the side of the quiver; there- (7013') 
fore it is the quiver's bag; while it feels that it is a little hag 
which is tied at the side of the quiver ; he had laid the how upon 


28 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Hd tiken e, Ihulhu ha Ine Han, llgdue hi. Ikakkaken 
Ine llptam ki llgdue hi, au Ihulhuken Ine llgdue hi. 
(7014) Hd tiken e, Ihulhu ka ku, hd Iku-g Ine ( ) llkdaken 
llgdue Jkhwa tsa^an. Hin ha ka : " Ine Idha n ll^dn 
Jkhumm." * Ihulhu a ka Jkhumm e, hah ha ka : " Ine 
laua ke Ikhumm." t Ikdkkaken hd ka : " Ine ll^kodn 

• I 0 3 

(7065) yu, h kan )"auki ddda Iki Jkhumm." ( ) Ihulhuken 
hd ka: " Ine laha n ll^dn Ikhumm." Ihulhu d ka 

D • 

Jkhumm e, hah hd ka : " Ine laua ke Jkhumm." 

(7066) Hd tiken e, Ihulhu ha Ine kui, ( ) Ikdggen ^utten 
lllid ; ta, Jkhumm ss'o le Jkh6 llhd. He ikaggen ha 
Ine kui : " Ine llwkoen yu, Ine ll^koen yu, Jkhumm 
kan yauki le Jkhd Ilh6. Ine ll^koen yu ; " au hah ha 
(7067) Jkeh-na, au Jkhwa ( ) tsa^au, hah ^iitten, Jkdro Jhoa 
Mho. Hah hd ka : " Ine llwkoen yu, Ine ll^koen yu, 
Ikhumm kail ^auki ddda le Ikhd Ilh6." 

• D * 

Hd tiken e, Ihulhu a, ha Ine kui : " Ine Jgwa Jkoih." 

(7068) He ti hih e, Jkiikko ( ) ha Ine kui : " Ine laua h liydn 

Jkhumm ; " au hah ha kui Jnupp, au Ikaggen Ina. 
Hd tiken e, Ikdggen ha Ine kui: U ~N kan ^auki ddda 
Iki Jkhumm," au hah ha kui Jnupp, au Ihulhu Ina. 
(7069) Hd tiken e, ( ) hi ta ku, ha Iku-g Ine llkdaken Jgwa! 
Ikdggen ; Ikakkaken ha Jgwai hi. Hd tiken e, 
Ikdkkaken Ine ta Ikhwi, Ikakkaken ha Ine kui : 
(7070) u Auuuuu ! Jkwa ka Jkduken-ggu ! u koa lla, ( ) Jkau- 

llkhoa au llkhwal, ha e; ha ssin Ine llxhraken ta |hou S; hah a, 

(7014 ? ) ha Ine llhin Ja ( ) llkhoa ha, au llkhwai. Ha llho, hah a, Jkhwa 

tsaxuu Ine le Jkh£ ya. Ha llho, hah a, ha Ine +nabbe ta Ihdu, a. 

* u line Jlauwa n Jlen Jlkhwumm." 
f " line Jlauwa ke l|khwum^l. ,, 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


29 


Then the baboons went to seek for it. The Mantis 
also sought for it, while the baboons sought for it. 

Then all the baboons were ( ) altogether seeking for (7014) 
the child's eye. They said: " Give my companion 
the ball." * The baboon whose ball it was, he said : 

" Give me the ball." f The Mantis said: " Behold 
ye ! I have not got the ball." ( ) The baboons said : (7065) 
" Give my companion the ball." The baboon whose 
ball it was, he said : " Give me the ball." Then 
the baboons X said that ( ) the Mantis must shake (7066) 
the bag, for the ball seemed to be inside the bag. 

And the Mantis exclaimed : " Behold ye ! Behold 
ye ! the ball is not inside the bag. Behold ye ! " 
while he grasped the child's ( ) eye, he shook, (7067) 
turning the bag inside out. He said: " Behold ye! 

Behold ye ! the ball cannot be inside the bag." 

Then this baboon exclaimed: " Hit the old man 
with (your) fists." Then the other one ( ) ex- (7068) 
claimed: " Give my companion the ball!" while he 
struck the head of the Mantis. Then the Mantis 
exclaimed: "I have not got the ball," while he 
struck the baboon's head. Therefore, ( ) they were (7069) 
all striking the Mantis with their fists; the Mantis 
was striking them with his fist. Then the Mantis 
got the worst of it; the Mantis exclaimed: " Ow ! 
Hartebeest's Children ! § ye must go ! ( ) \ kau YYdrri - (7070) 


it; it was the one that he tied, ( ) placing it by the side of the ( 7014 ) 
quiver. That bag, it was the one that the child's eye was in. 

That bag, it was the one that he laid the bow upon. 

* " Give my companion the ball." 
f " Give me the ball." 

J It is uncertain whether this should be singular or plural here. 

§ " Hartebeest's Children," here, may refer to a bag made from 
the skin of young hartebeests, which the Mantis had with him. 


i 


30 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


j^rri-ggu! u koa lla," au Ihulhuken ha Ine ll^koenya, 
ki llkaiten ha ; au hah ha Ine llkhcu llkaiten, au hah 
Ine llkhduwa jkhoa. H£ tiken e, ha ha Ine kui, >dp-pu 
(7071) ssin jkhoa, I; ( ) au hah M Ine kin : " I Ik6, tt6n 
jkhwditenjkhwaiten, jkui hd I Ikh!" Hd tiken e, ha 
ha Ine ttdi Ihin lla au Ikhoa ; hah ha Ine ssuen ; hah 
(7072) Ine jkan le Ilh6; hah Ine Iki Ihin jkhwa tsa^ah; ( ) 
hah ha Ine ttai ui, au hah Ikan-na hi ; han Ine ttai, 
Ike lla Ikhoa ka Ikahnun-a-ssd hah ha Ine ssuen. 

* ° '30 

Han ha Ine kui : " Oh wwi ho ! " au ha Iki le Ikhwa 

9 f 

(7073) tsa^au au jkhoa. ( ) " A koa Iku jkhweten ssin Ihin, 
a sse Iku ddi ku llkho, ti e, a ssin Ikue, i." f He 
tiken e, ha ha Ine ttdi ui, i ; hah Ine llah hho Inuin, 
(7074) han Ine *gammi te hi; hah Ine hho llkhwai, hah ( ) 
Ine juhai jho llkhwai; he, ha ha Ine Ikuei Iki, hah 
Ikuiten lla, au hah Ine Ikuiten, Ike lla llneih. 

H4 tiken e, Ini-Opua ha Ine kui: " Ikuru koa Ikuei 
(7075) Ika, au n jkoin, Ikaggen, ha Ikaggen llkhoa au ( ) 
tuituiten a?" Hd tiken e, Ikdggen ha Ine kui: 
" Ihulhu llkuan ddoa e, Ikha OpuaOpudiddi, jgaunu- 
tsa^au ; h llkuan ddoa Iku lla, au hin jkhumma llna, 

( 7072 0 * Ikhe llku§h e ; Ikhe e llkau jkhe jkhod |na tssi; hine, l^aifika 

^ ' Jk'e ta |k5ninm-a-sse,i. 

(7073') f Ha llkuan ka, jkhwa sse jk'ou, ha sse Ik'du |u£ sse. 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


31 


ggu ! * * * § ye must go ! " while the baboons watched him 
ascend ; as he flew up, as he flew to the water. Then 
he popped into the water on account of it ; ( )(7071) 
while he exclaimed: "I Ik4, tt£n jkhwaitenjkhwaiten, 
jkuf Mi lk&!" f Then he walked out of the water ; 
he sat down ; he felt inside (his) bag ; he took out 
the child's eye; ( ) he walked on as he held it; he (7072) 
walked, coming up to the grass at the top of the 
water's bankj; he sat down. He exclaimed: " Oh 
wwi ho ! " § as he put the child's eye into the water. 

( ) "Thou must grow out, that thou may est become (7073) 
like that which thou hast been." || Then he walked 
on ; he went to take up (his) kaross, he threw it oyer 
his shoulder; he took up the quiver, he ( ) slung on (7074) 
the quiver ; and, in this manner, he returning went, 
while he returning arrived at home. 

Then the young Ichneumon exclaimed : " Who 
can have done thus to my grandfather, the Mantis, 
that the Mantis is covered with ( ) wounds ? " Then (7075) 
the Mantis replied: "The baboons were those who 
killed grandson, \gaunu-lsqyau ; I went [the Mantis 
speaks very sadly and slowly here], as they were 


* The meaning of \Jcau \yerri-ggvb is at present unknown to the 
* translator, but the Mantis is still addressing some of his possessions, 
and ordering them to leave the scene of his defeat. 

f Of these words of the Mantis (which frequently appear in 
stories concerning him) the narrators were not able to furnish 
a sufficiently clear explanation, so the original text is given. 

J It is grass ; the grass which stands upon the top of the water's /'7072 , 'l 
bank ; it is that which the Bushmen call | Jcafitiuh-assu. ' ' 

§ At the same time, putting the first finger of his right hand 
into his mouth, against his left cheek, and drawing it forcibly out ; 
the eye being meanwhile in the palm of his right hand, shut down 
by his other fingers. 

I) He desired that the child should live; that it should living (7 07 3 ' ) 
return. v 


32 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(7076) an OpuaOpuaiddi tsa^au ; n ( ) llkuah Ine llan, 
jkhumma hi hi. Hd tiken e, ©puaOpudiddi tsa^au 
Iku-g Ine llgwi-ssin, 1. Hd tiken e, Ihulhii Ine ta, h 
(7077) a Iki hi ; Ihiilhuken Ine ddi i n; hd ti hin e, n Ine ( ) 
ddii hi, !; he, h Ine Ikuei Iki, n Ine llkhou ssa." 

Hd tiken e, Ikuamman-a ha Ine kiii : " N kah ka, 
a +kakka Jkoin, tssa ra yk a, jkoin ta Iku le lie jk'd e 
(7078) l^drra ? " ( ) Hd tiken e, Ikaggen ha Ine kui: "A 
koa ka, llkain ^au llkuan Ikii e, a n le lla Ihulhii a ? " 
au ha ^aiiki tkdkka Ikuammah-a ggu, tl e, ha ssa, 
Iki le jkhwa tsa^au au jkhoa. 

(7079) ( ) Hd tiken e, ha ha Iku Ine llna, au hah ^auki 

llelle jkhoa. Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine lla, I, au hah Ine 
lid, ha ll^kodn, ti e, ha ssin Iki le jkhwa tsa^au, I. 
(7080) He, ha ha Ine llkho kkalhma, ( ) au hail ka, ha ssin 
>huki Ikoroka ssa. Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine kkanDh ssa. 
He jkhwa ha Ine ttiii ha, au hah ^auki kanlni ssa au 
(7081) llkhwdten; he jkhwa Iku-g Ine ssuken ui, han ( ) Ine 
kill ll^obbi-ttu le jkhoa. Hd tiken e, Ikdggen ha 
Ine ywe-i. i, au hah llkain. He ha ha Ine Iku Ikiiiten, 

t / D 3 • o 7 

llkdaken jkuiten. 

He tiken e, jkhwa ha Iku-g Ine kkl, f; hah Iku-g 
(7082) Ine ddi ( ) kui llkho, ti e, ha ssin Ikue, !. He tiken 
e, Ikaggen ha Ine ssa, i ; au hah ssa llwkoen ; he, ha 
ha Ine Ikuei Iki, hah ttdi ssa. Hah ha llnau, au hah 
(7083) ttai tau ll^kodnya ssa, hah Ine loiiwi ( ) jkhwa, au 
Ikhwan Ine Ikara ss'o. Hd tiken e, Ikhwa ha Ine ttiii 
ha, au hah Ikoroka ssa ; jkhwan Ine +hou ui, jkhwan 
Ine le jkhoa. He, ha ha Ine Iku ll^kodn, jkhe, jkhe, 
(7084) Jkhe, han ( ) Ine Iku jxuonni. Hah ha Ine Iku lla; 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


33 


playing at ball there with grandson's eye; I ( ) (7076) 
went to play at ball with them. Then grandson's 
eye vanished. Therefore, the baboons said (that) I was 
the one who had it ; the baboons were fighting me ; 
therefore, I was ( ) fighting them; and I thus did, (7077) 
I flying came." 

Then I kuammah-a said : "I desire thee to say to 
grandfather, Why is it that grandfather continues 
to go among strangers [literally, people who are 
different]?" ( ) Then the Mantis answered: " Thou (7078) 
dost appear to think that yearning was not that on 
account of which I went among the baboons ; " while 
he did not tell I Icuamman-a and the others that he 
came (and) put the child's eye into the water. 

( ) Then he remained there (i.e. at home), while he (7079) 
did not go to the water. Then he went there, while 
he went to look at the place where he had put in the 
child's eye. And he approached gently, ( ) while he (7080) 
wished that he might not make a rustling noise. 
Therefore, he gently came. And the child heard 
him, because he had not come gently when afar off; 
and the child jumped up, it ( ) splashed into the (7081) 
water. Then the Mantis was laughing about it, 
while his heart yearned (for the child). And he 
returned ; altogether returned. 

Then the child grew; it became ( ) like that (7082) 
which it had (formerly) been. Then the Mantis 
came ; while he came to look ; and he in this manner 
walking came. While he came walking and looking, 
he espied ( ) the child, as the child was sitting in the (7083) 
sun. Then the child heard him, as he came rustling 
(along) ; the child sprang up, the child entered the 
water. And he looking stood, he ( ) went back. (7084) 
He went ; he went to make for the child a front 


D 


34 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


han Ine Iku llan ddd Ikhwa lluhi, hih k6a llkoroko. 

r* o / 

Han Ine Iku Iku tchuen ; hd tiken e, ha ha Iku-g Ine 
(7085) le llkho lluhi, hin kda llkoroko ; hah ha Iku-g Ine ( ) 
Ikuei Iki, hah lla ; hah Iku-g Ine ikuei Iki, hah ssa;. 
hah Iku-g Ine llkho kam-ma. He, ha ha llnau, hah 
kkamm ssa, hah louwi jkhwan Ikara ta, au jkhwah 
(7086) Ine tan Skdra jgwd ta jkhoa. He tiken e, ha ( ) ha 
Ine kkamm, Ike ssa jkhwa. He Ikhwah Iku-g Ine 
ttii'i ha, au ha daken kkamm ssa. He Ikaggen ha 
llnau, au jkhwan ka Ikhwa sse u, Ikakkaken ha 4hau 
(7087) !k'u ssa, hah kui Hnipp, au jkhwa. ( ) He, ha ha 
Ine lluhobbaken lldlki Ikhwa, au ha l^kw'ai ; hah ha 
Ine lluhobbaken jkhwa, hah hd ka : u Tsa ra ^a a, 
a-g Ine jhammi ha? A (5a kah ddda e ii ; h a 
(7088) Ikaggen, h ddoa a; h Opuoh ddoa e a, dken e ( ) 
jgaunu-tsa^au ; n e Ikaggen, h a Opuon e a ; a oaken 
e n-n." He Ikhwa ha Ine ssuen, I ; he, ha ha Ine Iki 
Ihih lluhi, hah Ine Sid Ihih llkoroko. Hah Ine lluhiya 
(7089) jkhwa; hah Ine llkorokoa ( ) jkhwa; hah Ine lluhiya 

/¦VJ 

jkhwa. Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine jkhau jho jkhwa ; hi h 
Ine Ikuei Iki, hin jkuiten lla; hin Ine Ikuiten jke Na 
llneih. 

He ti kin e, Sni-Opua ha Ine kui : u jkuru koa a, ssa 
(7090) ( ) hi Ikaggen ? " He Ikuammah-a ha Ine kui: 
u Tsara a jhamm ssin tui, ti e, jkoih ssih ta, ha ha 
lla Ihulhii, au hih jkhum-ma llna, au Jkhwa tsa^au? 
(7091) au ti e, jkoih ya Ilkua ddoa Iku ^uwa ( ) jgwe ttih 
l ; ha Qpuon llkuan Ike ssa, hi ha ! He, hi ha Ine 
jkuiten, jke ssa llneih, !. Hd tiken e, Ini-Opua ha 
Ine ta, hah l^ke : u Tsara h jkoih Ikaggen ssih Jhamm 


THE SON OF THE MANTIS. 


35 


kaross (or apron), that and a II koroko* He put the 
things aside; then he put the front kaross (into 
a hag), that and the II koroko) he ( ) in this manner (7085) 
went ; he in this manner came ; he approached 
gently. And, as he approached gently, he espied 
the child lying in the sun, as the child lay yonder, 
in the sun, opposite the water. Therefore, he ( ) (7086) 
gently came up to the child. And the child heard 
him, as his father gently came. And the Mantis, 
when the child intended to get up, the Mantis sprang 
forward, he caught hold of the child. ( ) And he (7087) 
anointed the child with his scent; he anointed the 
child; he said: "Why art thou afraid of me? I 
am thy father ; I who am the Mantis, I am here ; 
thou art my son, thou art ( ) \ gmnu-tsayjm ) I am (7088) 
the Mantis, I whose son thou art; thy father is 
myself." And the child sat down, on account of it; 
and he took out the front kaross, he took out the 
Whoroko. He put the front kaross on to the child ; 
he put the II koroJco on to ( ) the child; he put the (7089) 
front kaross on to the child. Then he took the child 
with him; they, in this manner, returning went; they 
returning arrived at home. 

Then the young Ichneumon exclaimed: "What 
person can it he who comes ( ) with the Mantis ?" (7090) 
And I kuammah-a replied: "Hast thou not just(?) 
heard that grandfather said he had gone to the 
baboons, while they were playing at ball there with 
the child's eye? while grandfather must have been 
playing ( ) before us; his son comes yonder with (7091) 
him ! " And they returned, reaching the house. 

Then the young Ichneumon spoke ; he said : " Why 
did my grandfather, the Mantis, first say that the 
* Another article for the child to wear. 


36 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(7092) ka, hah Iwke, Ihhlhii e ( ) Ikha jkhwa, an ti e, jkhwa 
Sku-g Ine a ? JJ H6 ti hin e, Ikaggen ha In6 ta : C( A 
koa [Van jhamm llwkoenya, hail ^auki ) J wd jnahjnaua, 
an han tatti e, h oa ssan ilka jho ha tsa^ah, an jkhoa ; 
(7093) ( ) an n ka, h ssih ll^ko6n, ti e, ti inn ^ahki sse kkh 
i-ya ke ; he tiken e, h 6a ssah Ilka jho ha tsa^ah, an 
jkhoa. Hah Ikn Ihin jkhoa ; h6 ti hin e, a ll^koen, 
(7094) ha >"ahki ywf\ ( ) jnahjnaha. H6 taken e, h Iku ka, 
h ssih tkamOpua, llknahhihllknanhih Ikilki ya ; h sse 
lkko6n, ti e, ha Inn ^ahki sse 16 kku ka llilli." 


I.— 7. 

B. 

IlGO KA KUMM * 


(. Dictated , in 1875, in the Kathop dialect , ly jkweiten ta ||ken ; who 
heard it from her mother , +kamme-an.) 

' r ' 

(4055) jk'e a jhannjhann t ttal ; ha ttah ; he ha lahwi 
Ikni a Ike Ha ha llnein ; ha ssih Ihan-na ttih. 

Ha kkui Ikni amm Ikanwa ha a, ha llknallknahn ; 
(4056) ta, he ttah. jkni Ikanwa ( ) ha a, i. He, ha Ikh-g 
Ine llkbaken jkanh llwei 6 jkni, !. jkni l^kalwka iku-g 
Ine llkoaken j^whkken 4nn6bboken, i. 

il^a, ha lahwi jkni kko, a jhann ssa. He ha ll^am, 
(4057) ( ) kh-kkui, hah Ihke : u Ine amm Ikauwa kki." 

He Ikni a l^kalwka ssih l^wakken tnuobboka I eta 


* The above story was considered by Dr. Bleek to he a variation 
of a myth (L II. — 5. 565-624, 8. 811-882) describing how the 
Mantis is tricked by the Great Tortoise. 

f The a here to be pronounced as the u in ' bun ' in English. 


THE LEOPARD TORTOISE. 


37 


baboons were those who ( ) killed the child, while (7092) 
the child is here ? " Then the Mantis said : " Hast 
thou not seen (that) he is not strong ? while he feels 
that I came to put his eye into the water ; ( ) while (7093) 
I wished that I might see whether the thing would 
not accomplish itself for me ; therefore, I came to 
put his eye into the water. He came out of the 
water; therefore, thou seest (that) he is not ( ) (7094) 
strong. Therefore, I wished that I might wait, 
taking care of him ; that I may see whether he 
will not become strong." 


I.— 7. 

B. 

THE STORY OF THE LEOPARD TORTOISE* 

The people had gone hunting : she was ill ; and (4055) 
she perceived a man f who came up to her hut ; he 
had been hunting around. 

She asked the man to rub her neck a little with 
fat for her ; for, it ached. The man rubbed it with 
fat ( ) for her. And she altogether held the man (4056) 
firmly with it. J The man's hands altogether decayed 
away in it. § 

Again, she espied another man, who came hunting. 

And she also ( ) spoke, she said : " Rub me with fat (4057) 
a little." 

And the man whose hands had decayed away in 

* Testudo pardalis. 

f The narrator explains that this misfortune happened to men 
of the Early Race. 

t By drawing in her neck. 

§ The flesh decayed away and came off, as well as the skin and 
nails, leaving, the narrator says, merely the hones. 


38 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN EOLKLOEE. 


ha llkuallkuahn, hah I^ei ha l^kal^ka, jkuko yi sse 
Ini he, ti e, he j^wakken Lnuobboka, 1. He ha kkui: 
(4058) " 1 h Ikau wwe, arum Ikau i Ilka^ai; ta, ( ) jkajkarro 
Ilkuaii la, o 1 llka^aiten jkou tta. A ss'e-g Ine ll^ani 
Ikan 1 llka^ai, a." Han j^ei* ha l^kalwka, jkuko ^a 
sse Ini he. 

Ilgo Ine ka: u Ikau Ikan Iki le, o n llkuallkuahn." 
(4059) ( ) He, ha Ikan lid le ha l^kal^ka, o 1 1 go llkuallkuahn; 
he llgogen kkui ttchotto II ko ha Ina, o ha llkuallkuahn ; 
6 ha Iwkalwkaken Iku llko-llkoaken le-ttih ha llkua- 

o o o 

llkuann; he ha jkujku jho ilgo, i; o hah ka, ban 4i, 
(4060) ka sse Iku lid Ilgo. ( ) He, Ilgo Iku jkahn Ilwi, a. 

jkukoken Iku-g Ine Iki Ihihya ha l^kal^ka, lie ha 
kui: " Tta ti e, h ssih ll^aih tta he;" he ha llneya 
Ikuko ha Iwkalwka, i ; he Ikukoken l^kalwka !kii-g 
(4061) Ine llkdaken Ici-ttm Ilgo llkuallkuahn. ( ) He ha Iku 
ui, han Iku jkuiten llneih, 1. He jkuko Ikii-g Ine 

f 

|ku Iku jho Iki iki Ilgo; o hah Ine Ikuiten I la ; he ha 

kui, jkuko ll^am tta ti e ha ssih tta he. Ti ttwaiten 

* He sat, putting his hands behind him, when the other man 
came, taking them out from the Leopard Tortoise's neck. 

f The moon ' died and another moon came, while she still 
lay ill, the narrator explains. " Whilst in the preceding myths 
of the Mantis, the Moon, according to its origin, is only a piece of 
leather (a shoe of the Mantis), — in Bushman astrological mythology 
the Moon is looked upon as a man who incurs the wrath of the 
Sun, and is consequently pierced hy the knife ( i.e . rays) of the 
latter. This process is repeated until almost the whole of the Moon 


THE LEOPARD TORTOISE. 


39 


her neck, he was hiding his hands,* so that the other 
man should not perceive them, namely, that they had 
decayed away in it. And he said: "Yes; 0 my 
mate! rub our elder sister a little with fat; for, ( )(4058) 
the moon has been cut.f while onr elder sister lies ill. 

Thou shalt also rub onr elder sister with fat." He 
was hiding his hands, so that the other one should 
not perceive them. 

The Leopard Tortoise said : " Rubbing with fat, 
put (thy hands) into my neck." ( ) And he, rubbing (4059) 
with fat, put in his hands upon the Leopard Tortoise's 
neck ; and the Leopard Tortoise drew in her head 
upon her neck ; while his hands were altogether in 
her neck ; and he dashed the Leopard Tortoise upon 
the ground, on account of it ; while he desired, he 
thought, that he should, by dashing (it) upon the 
ground, break the Leopard Tortoise. ( ) And the (4060) 
Leopard Tortoise held him fast. 

The other one had taken out his hands (from 
behind his back) ; and he exclaimed : " Feel (thou) 
that which I did also feel ! " and he showed the other 
one his hands ; and the other one's hands were alto- 
gether inside the Leopard Tortoise's neck. ( ) And (4061) 
he arose, he returned home. And the other one was 
dashing the Leopard Tortoise upon the ground ; 
while he returning went ; and he said that the other 
one also felt what he had felt. A pleasant thing ( ) (4062) 

is cut away, and only one little piece left ; which the Moon 
piteously implores the Sun to spare for his (the Moon's) children. 

(As mentioned above, the Moon is in Bushman mythology a male 
being.) From this little piece, the Moon gradually grows again 
until it becomes a full moon, when the Sun's stabbing and cutting 
processes recommence." ("A Brief Account of Bushman Folk-lore 
and other Texts." By W. H. I. Bleek, Ph.D. Cape Town, 1875. 

P. 9, § 16.) 


40 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 4062 ) ( ) >*auki e, ha ssm le-ta he. 

|ke lla llneih. 

Ik'e kkui : u Tfrre ka, a ssm llna he ? 


Ike, han Ikuiten lla ; 

/ • o 7 


He ha 


ku-kkuiten l^ke, llgo ddoa a ha l^kal^ka ssm le-ta 
( 4063 ) ha llkuallkuahn ; ( ) tiken e, ha ^a ka jkuiten, i. 
jk ? e kkui : " A ka e Igebbi? ^oaken-ggu )Vuki a 
llkhou a ? llgo kah ka Ikweiten >hwoh ha sse Ikuki, 
o ha ddau-ddan i." 


THE LEOPARD TORTOISE. 


41 


(it) was not, in which he had been ! He yonder 
returning went ; (he) arrived at home. 

The people exclaimed : " Where hast thou been ? " 

And he, answering, said that the Leopard Tortoise 
had been the one in whose neck his hands had been ; 

( ) that was why he had not returned home. The (4063) 
people said : " Art thou a fool ? Did not (thy) 
parents instruct thee ? The Leopard Tortoise always 
seems as if she would die ; while she is deceiving us." 




Dlalkwain 




II. Sun and Moon . 


\ 


44 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


II.— 15. 

B. 

THE CHILDREN ARE SENT TO THROW 
THE SLEEPING SUN INTO THE SKY. 


(487) jkaukaken e l^uerri h(5a llkoin I ^katten-ttii, an 
llkoinlwkatten-ttu wdken Opuoin tta. 

jkaukaken tatti e, ha ^oa a Ikakka ; he ti hi h e, 
jkaukaken Ine I la llkoin, i; au llkoin yan t^iya, au 
ti e, llkoin ta hi, Opuoin ta hi. 

(488) Iniitarra koken a Ikakka jkuko, a ; lid ti hih e, ( ) 
Ikukoken Ine +kakka Ikuko ka Ikauken,* i. Inutarra 
koken 4kakka Ikuko, ti e, Ikuko ka Ikauken sse lia 
l^uerri h(5 llkoin I ^katten-ttu, hi sse herruki llkalten 
llkoihl^katten-ttu, \\%e ssi llkowa hi, llkoin ssi 
\%oe ta ku ; au llkoin yan tatti e, llkoin Ine ttaa, han 
Ine ttal jgwa^u ka ku, hail Ine +^iya tikentiken ka 
ku ; he ti hih e, hah Ine +^iya jkau ka ku, i; au hah 

(489') tatti e, ( ) jkauken Ine e datta ha ; hih tatti e, Inutarra 

f t 

a, Lkakka jkuko a, he ti hih e, jkiikoken Ine Lkakken : 
u jkauken we! U kuan ssan jkejke llkoin, Ilk5in sse 
Opuoin, ten, ta, i dd(5a >ao. U sse ttuhiOpua l^uerri 
ho ha, au ha Opuoin, tta ; ii sse Ikea ha, au u ka ku, 
u ka ku, liken jkai hoa ha; u sse hdrruki llkaiten ha 


( 488 ') 


* Inutarra kogen a, +kakka jkuko, jkuk5 sse +kakka jkuk5 ka 
Ikauken; ta, ha yauki |ki jkauken ka ttiiken Opuonni ; ta, jkuko 
a, Iki jkauken ka ttuken Opuonni e llkuakka, he e, sse llkuakken 
akken, au ht |ne ||a ha Jkoin. 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDREN. 


45 


II.— 15. 

B. 

THE CHILDREN ARE SENT TO THROW 
THE SLEEPING SUN INTO THE SKY. 

The children were those who approached gently (487) 
to lift np the Sun-armpit, while the Sun-armpit lay 
sleeping. 

The children felt that their mother was the one 
who spoke ; therefore, the children went to the Sun ; 
while the Sun shone, at the place where the Sun lay, 
sleeping lay. 

Another old woman was the one who talked to the 
other about it; therefore, ( ) the other one spoke (488) 
to the other one's children.* The other old woman 
said to the other, that, the other one's children should 
approach gently to lift up the Sun-armpit, that they 
should throw up the Sun-armpit, that the Bushman 
rice might become dry for them, that the Sun might 
make bright the whole place ; while the Sun felt that 
the Sun went (along), it went over the whole sky, 
it made all places bright; therefore, it made all the 
ground bright; while it felt that ( ) the children (489') 
were those who had coaxed (?) him; because an old 
woman was the one who spoke to the other about it, 
therefore, the other one said : " 0 children ! ye must 
wait for the Sun, that the Sun may lie down to sleep, 
for, we are cold. Ye shall gently approach to lift 

* Another old woman was the one who said to the other, that (488') 
the other should tell the other one's children; for, she (herself) 
had no young male children ; for, the other was the one who had 
young male children who were clever, those who would understand 
nicely, when they went to that old man. 


46 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


au jgwa;£u." Hih Ikueda, hih +kakken, Inutarraken 
Ikueda, ban dkakka jkuko; he ti hin e, jkukoken 
Ikueda, jkukoken dkakka ha, hah ll^ani Ine Ikueda, 
hah +kakka ha ka jkauken. jkukoken +kakka ha : 
u Kumman a a , ha h kkakka ha ha, u koa ssah Ike Ike 
llkoih." 

Ikaukaken Ine ttai ssa, Ikaukaken ttai lla; Inutarra- 
ken kkakken : ce U kkuah ssah lla ssiuh, au u llwkoenya 

o . o f o 3 3 o/ J 

(490 ? )ha, ( ) ti e, ha llwkoen, ta, u kua ssah ssuin, au u 
jkejke ha;" he ti hih e, jkauken Ine Hah ssuin, au 
jkaukaken Ine jkejke ha; hah Ine tten, hail Ine lid 
I Ikaiten ha jkotten-ttu, ha l^kattenttuken Ine l^i jkau, 
au han tta. Hd ti hi h e, jkauken Ine herru ja jho 
ha au jgwa^u, au hih tatti, Inutarra a 4kakka hi. 
Inutarraken +kakka Ikauken: " Ikauken we lla, u kua 
ssan tkakka ha, au u hdrruki ISkaiten ha." Inutarra- 
ken ikdkka Ikauken: " Ikauken we lla ! U kua ssah 

o • o • o 033 

4kakka ha, ti e, ha Iku llkoaken sse di llkoih, ha sse 
Iku-g Ine ttai jku He, au han tatti e, ha Iku-g Ine 
llkdaken e llkoih, a tta li ; he ti hih e, ll^e Ine Ilko, i, 
(491 ? ) au hah Ine tta li, jka jhda ha au jgwa^u ; ( ) hah Ine 
tta li, au han Ine ja jkhe jgwa^ii." 

Inutarraken a tkakka jkauken a ; au hah tatti e ha 

r f - L 

Ina jkuita ; jkaukaken ttumm-i ha, hih ttumm-i hi ta 
mama, hi ^oa ; ha ^oaken Ine kkakka hi a, ti e, Inutarra 
Ikueda, hah +kakken, l. He ti hih e, hi Ine Ikueda, 
hih +i. He ti hih e, hi Ine llah ssuen, l. jkhwa 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDREN. 


47 


him up, while he lies asleep; ye shall take hold of 
him, all together, all together ye lift him up, that ye 
may throw him up into the sky." They, in this 
manner, spoke; the old woman, in this manner, she 
spoke to the other; therefore, the other in this 
manner spoke to her, she also, in this manner, spoke 
to her children. The other said to her : " This (is the) 
story which I tell thee, ye must wait for the Sun." 

The children came, the children went away; the 
old woman said: "Ye must go to sit down, when 
ye have looked at him, ( ) (to see) whether he lies (490') 
looking ; ye must go to sit down, while ye wait for 
him." Therefore, the children went to sit down, 
while the children waited for him; he lay down, he 
lifted up his elbow, his armpit shone upon the ground, 
as he lay. Therefore, the children threw him up into 
the sky, while they felt that the old woman had 
spoken to them. The old woman said to the children : 

" 0 children going yonder ! ye must speak to him, 
when ye throw him up." The old woman said to the 
children: "0 children going yonder! ye must tell 
him, that, he must altogether become the Sun, that he 
may go forward, while he feels that he is altogether 
the Sun, which is hot; therefore, the Bushman rice 
becomes dry, while he is hot, passing along in the 
sky; ( ) he is hot, while he stands above in the sky." (4917) 

The old woman was the one who told the children 
about it, while she felt that her head was white ; the 
children were listening to her, they were listening to 
their mamma, their mother ; their mother told them 
about it, that which the old woman in this manner 
said. Therefore, they thought in this manner. There- 
fore, they went to sit down. An older child spoke 
to another, therefore, they went to sit down, while 


48 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Jkhrri-Opua Ine +kakka jkuko, he ti hih e, hi Ine I Ian 

(492') ssuen, au hiii jkejke ha ; hih Ine Man ssuen. ( ) Hih 

Ine ttai u lla, hih Ine lyuorri ha, hih Ine jkhe, hih Ine 

ll^koen ha, hih Ine ttai jku I la; hih Ine l^uorri Ike I la 

ha, hih Ine Ikei ha, hi ta kiigen Ine Ikei ha, Ikeya 

ho ha, hih Ine jkai-ki ilkaiten ha, an hah ta li. Hh 

ti hih e, hih Ine herruki Ilkaiten ha, i, au hah tta li ; 

hih Ine +kakka ha, an hah tta li : u llkoin we ! A 
/ f 

koa llkoaken IOT Ikhh, a koa ttai lla, a koa I l>*i Ikhe, 
au a tta li." 

Inutarraken Ine tkakken, hi kan llkhoa herrhki 
llkaita ha, hah llkhoa ll>*i ja jkhe. Hih i-da, hih 
*kakken, hih Ikueda, hih +kakken. Ha Ihan Ine 
+kakken: " llkoil^katten-ttu kan Ike UYi la Ikhe, ha 
jkauken herrhki llkaita ha; ha ssih tta, hah jkeita, 
ha ssih Opuoinya ; he ti hih e, jkanken herrhki 
llkaita ha l." 

Ikankaken Ine Ikhiten ssa. He ti hih e, Ikanken 

• o • o j • o 

(493') ( ) Ine ssan +khkken i: u Ikeh a a, han Ikea ha, h 
ll^arii Ikei ha; h Ilka-Opuaken Ine Ikei ha, h llka- 
Opua koken Ine llyam Ikei ha ; Iken a a, ha IlkaOpua 
koken 1 1 yam Ikei ha. ET Ine dkhkken : £ U kuan Ikann 
llwei a. J N Ine Ikueda, n kkakken; n Ine +kakken: 

4 Hdrruki llkaitau ha ! ' He ti hih e, Ikanken Ine h^rruki 
Ilkaiten ha, i. +kakka jkanken: ' jkahn llwei yu, 
an Ikoih ! ' H 4kakka Ikanken: 'Herrhki llkai-tau 

• • o 

Ikoin!' He ti hih e, Ikanken Ine herruki llkaita 
jkom, i; ha jkoin llkoin; an hih tatti e, Inhtarra a 
+kakka." 

jkhwa jkhtri-Opuaken Ine +kakken, au han tdtti 

f f 

e, ha a >*arro ; jkiikoken llyam e > ; auddoro, hih 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDREN. 


49 


they waited for him (the Sun), they went to sit down. 

( ) They arose, going on, they stealthily approached (492') 
him, they stood still, they looked at him, they went 
forward ; they stealthily reached him, they took hold 
of him, they all took hold of him together, lifted him 
up, they raised him, while he felt hot. Then, they 
threw him up, while he felt hot ; they spoke to him, 
while he felt hot : u 0 Sun ! thou must altogether 
stand fast, thou must go along, thou must stand fast, 
while thou art hot." 

The old woman said (that) they seemed to have 
thrown him up, he seemed to he standing fast above. 

They thus spoke, they in this manner spoke. Her 
(apparently the mother's) husband said: u The Sun- 
armpit is standing fast above yonder, he whom the 
children have thrown up; he lay, he intended to 
sleep ; therefore, the children have thrown him up." 

The children returned. Then, the children ( ) (493') 
came (and) said : " (Our) companion who is here, he 
took hold of him, I also was taking hold of him ; my 
younger brother was taking hold of him, my other 
younger brother was also taking hold of him ; (our) 
companion who is here, his other younger brother was 
also taking hold of him. I said : ' Ye must grasp 
him firmly.' I, in this manner, spoke ; I said : 

4 Throw ye him up ! ' Then, the children threw him 
up. I said to the children : ' Grasp ye the old man 
firmly ! ' I said to the children : ' Throw ye up the 
old man ! ' Then, the children threw up the old 
man ; that old man, the Sun ; while they felt that the 
old woman was the one who spoke." 

An older child spoke, while he felt that he was 
a youth; the other also was a youth, they were 


50 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


e yauyarrokeii ka Ikaoikao, hiii I Ian herruki llkaiten 

odd/ o 

(494 ? ) llkuilwkatten-ttu. Hih ssah tkakken, ( ) yaoddoroken 
*kakken, ^a o ddoroken Ikakka ha Ikdite: " 1ST Ikoite 
we ! ssi tan herruki llkalta ha, ssften Ine 4kakka ha, 
ti e, ha sse ! Ikoaken di llkoih, a tta Si; ta ssi ^ad. 
Ssften Ine +kakken: '1ST Ikoih llkuil^katten-ttii we! 

o o • o 

A-g llnallna ti; a di llkoih 4 tta Si; IS^e sse llkowa 
ssi ; a sse lyl jkau ka kfi ; jkau ka ku sse di ku tta li, 
au llkuorina; a sse I Ikoaken di kii tta li. He ti hi h 
e, a ssih i Ikoaken +^f, ho I la Ilga, i; a ssin ttal ssa, 
llgagen ttal I la . 7 " 

llkoin yah ttal ssa, llgdgen ttal lla, llkoih yah 
ttal ssa, llkoin yah le, llgagen ttal ssa, jkau- 
jkarroken ttal ssa au Ilga ; jgaueten khwai, # llkoih 
yah Ihih ssa, llgagen ttal lla, llkoih yah ttal ssa. 
jkaujkarroken Ihih ssa, jkaujkarroken +^i Ilga, llgagen 
ttal u 114; jkaujkarroken Ihih ssa; jkaujkarroken +^i 

(494) ho lla Ilga ; ( ) ban ttal lla, han l^fya Ilga, hah le. 
llkoih yah Ihih ssa, llkoih yah j^hai ti lla Ilga, llkoih 
yah Ikf lla jkaujkarro, jkaujkarroken Ine jkhe, llkoih 
yah llkeinya ha, au llkoin ta jgwarra, au hah jkhe; 
he ti hi h e, hah Ine J^wakken, i. He ti hih e, hah 
Ine hkakken : 66 llkoih wd ! luhfya Ikauken Ikudrri." 
He ti hih e, llkoih Ine luhfya jkauken Ikudrri, i; 

(495) llkoih yah Ine l, i. ( ) He ti hih e, llkoih Ine+kakken, 
ti e, llkoih sse luhlya jkauken Ikuerri, au llkoih yah 
jhummha; llkoih yah Ine luhfya jkauken Ikuerri; he 
ti hih e, jkaujkarroken Ine durru ui, hah Ine durru 
jkuiten, au hah Ine durru lla; he ti hih e, llkoih Ine 

* The narrator explained here that the word khwai may he used 
either with or without the cerebral click (j). 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDREN. 


51 


young men (?), they went to throw up the Sun- 
armpit. They came to speak, ( ) the youth spoke, (494') 
the youth talked to his grandmother : " 0 my 

grandmother! we threw him up, we told him, that, 
he should altogether become the Sun, which is hot ; 
for, we are cold. We said : ' 0 my grandfather, 
Sun-armpit! Eemain (at that) place; become thou 
the Sun which is hot; that the Bushman rice may 
dry for us; that thou mayst make the whole earth 
light ; that the whole earth may become warm in the 
summer ; that thou mayst altogether make heat. 
Therefore, thou must altogether shine, taking away 
the darkness ; thou must come, the darkness go 
away.' " 

The Sun comes, the darkness goes away, the Sun 
comes, the Sun sets, the darkness comes, the moon 
comes at night. The day breaks, the Sun comes out, 
the darkness goes away, the Sun comes. The moon 
comes out, the moon brightens the darkness, the 
darkness departs; the moon comes out, the moon 
shines, taking away the darkness; ( ) it goes along, (494) 
it has made bright the darkness, it sets. The Sun 
comes out, the Sun follows (drives away ?) the 
darkness, the Sun takes away the moon, the moon 
stands, the Sun pierces it, with the Sun's knife, as it 
stands; therefore, it decays away on account of it. 
Therefore, it says: a O Sun! leave for the children 
the backbone ! " Therefore, the Sun leaves the back- 
bone for the children ; the Sun does so. ( ) Therefore, (495) 
the Sun says that the Sun will leave the backbone for 
the children, while the Sun assents to him; the Sun 
leaves the backbone for the children; therefore, the 
moon painfully goes away, he painfully returns home, 
while he painfully goes along; therefore, the Sun 


52 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Suhi, an lian tatti e, Ilkoin luhlya jkanken a Ikuerri, 
an Ilkoin Ine jhumm ha; he ti bin e, Ilkoin Ine lulil 

( 496 ) an Ikuerri ; ( ) au Ilkoin yah tdtti, Ilkoin Ine jhumm 

ha; he ti hih e, Ilkoin Ine luhl, i; hah Ine dhrrn hi, 

/ 

hah Ine ddiirrn jkniten; hah Ine ll^a, hah Ine Man di 
Ikaujkarro ko, ha g burru ; hah ll^a, hah jkauwih, hah 
Ine ll^a, hah Ine Ikauwih, an han tatti e, ha Iku 
Skiiken dan-dah. He ti hih e, hah Ine di Ikaulkarro 

( 497 ) llkan ; an han tatti e, hah ll^a, ( ) hah il^de jho Ikda ; 
hah Ine llkhou Ikwi ; an ban tatti e, hah Ine e jkan- 
Ikdrro a burru ; he ti hih e, hah Ine jkwiya ; hah Ine 
ttai ssa, an han jkau-wa. Hah ine tai I la an llga, han 
tatti, ha e Ikaulkarro a ttai an llga, an han tatti, 
Ikuken Ikii e ; he ti bin e, hah Iku ttai an llga. 

Ilkoin yan a, jkah ka ku b^iya, Ilkoin yah a, Ike 

( 498 ) ttai au tiken bka, jkaun ( ) bka ; jkdten Ini Ohoken, 

9 f * 9 

hih llwkoen Ike kiuten ; hih IS^koen eh, e hi hi hi ; 

hih IS^aihki ll^koen whai, hih ll^amki juhatten whai, 

au llkuonna; hih ll^amki juhatten ttoi, au hih tatti 
/ / 
Ilkoin b^iya ; hih IS^am juhatten ttoi, an llkuonna ; hih 

\%ai whai an llkuonna, au hih tatti, Ilkoin bj/iya, hih 

Ine llwkoen whai ; hih ll^am i^nofri jkhwai ; hih ll^am 

( 499 ) ( ) l^uorri j^au, au hih tatti ti ta kh b^iya ; hih 
ll^am ^ahniigu hi Ikagen, au hih tatti e, Ilkoin b^iya, 
jkaiih ll^am b^iya, Ilkoin yah b^iya jkharra. Hin 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDREN. 


53 


desists, while he feels that the Sun has left for the 
children the backbone, while the Sun assents to him ; 
therefore, the Sun leaves the backbone ; ( ) while the (496) 
Sun feels that the Sun assents to him ; therefore, the 
Sun desists on account of it ; he (the moon) painfully 
goes away, he painfully returns home; he again, he 
goes to become another moon, which is whole ; he 
again, he lives ; he again, he lives, while he feels that 
he had seemed to die. Therefore, he becomes a new 
moon; while he feels that he has again ( ) put on (497) 
a stomach ; he becomes large ; while he feels that he 
is a moon which is whole ; therefore, he is large ; he 
comes, while he is alive. He goes along at night, 
he feels that he is the moon which goes by night, 
while he feels that he is a shoe * ; therefore, he walks 
in the night. 

The Sun is here, all the earth is bright ; the Sun is 
here, the people walk while the place is light, the 
earth ( ) is light; the people perceive the bushes, (498) 
they see the other people ; they see the meat, which 
they are eating; they also see the springbok, they 
also head the springbok, in summer ; they also head 
the ostrich, while they feel that the Sun shines ; they 
also head the ostrich in summer; they are shooting 
the springbok in summer, while they feel that the 
Sun shines, they see the springbok; they also steal 
up to the gemsbok ; they also ( ) steal up to the (499) 
kudu, while they feel that the whole place is bright ; 
they also visit each other, while they feel that the 
Sun shines, the earth also is bright, the Sun shines 
upon the path. They also travel in summer; they 

* The Mantis formerly, when inconvenienced by darkness, took 
off one of his shoes and threw it into the sky, ordering it to become 
the Moon. 


54 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Il^am jkwa au likuonna ; hiii l^ai au likuonna, kin 
jhunn, au likuonna ; hiii Ini whai, au likuonna ; hiii 
Ine juhatten whai ; hin Ine jga tin ; hin t&tti e, hi 
llkoita llkuiten ; hin l^erriya llkuiten ka jkau, hiii 
Ine tten, au whaiten ttal ssa. 

i ODD 


FURTHER REMARKS. 

The second version of the preceding myth, which 
is unfortunately too long to he conveniently included 
in the present volume, contains a few interesting 
notes, furnished by the narrator, II kdbbo ( u Dream"), 
which are given below. II kdbbo further explained 
that the Sun was a man ; but, not one of the early 
race of people who preceded the Flat Bushmen in 
their country. He only gave forth brightness for 
a space around his own dwelling. Before the children 
threw him up, he had not been in the sky, but, had 
lived at his own house, on earth. As his shining had 


NOTES FROM THE SECOND VERSION OF 
THE PRECEDING STORY. 

yj 

( 3150 ') j^we-lna-ssho jke iku e, ssin mmaji, hiii llna jkau. 
He ti hin e, hi ta Ikauken Iku e Ine tabba llkoin. 
He ti hin e, jke e Ine llna, hi-hi ta j^de, hiii e Ine 
dkakken ti e, Ikauken e ttabba ki llkaita llkoin, au 
hiii tatti e, hi ^( 5 aken-ggu e l^kabbeya, ti e, hi sse 
hherniki llkaita hi llkoin ; llkoin sse Ikarraka hi jk'ati ; 
hi sse ttaa llkoin ta Ikarrakenlkarraken, hi sse ddda-g 

o o / d d O 

9 

Ine Ikarra-lkarra ssin. 


THE SUN AND THE CHILDEEN. 


55 


are shooting in summer; they .hunt in summer; 
they espy the springbok in summer; they go round 
to head the springbok ; they lie down ; they feel that 
they lie in a little house of bushes ; they scratch up 
the earth in the little house of bushes, they lie down, 
while the springbok come. 


been confined to a certain space at, and round his own 
dwelling, the rest of the country seemed as if the sky 
were very cloudy ; as it looks now, when the Sun 
is behind thick clouds. The sky was black (dark ?). 
The shining came from one of the Sun's armpits, 
as he lay with one arm lifted up. When he put down 
his arm, darkness fell everywhere ; when he lifted it 
up again, it was as if day came. In the day, the 
Sun's light used to be white ; but, at night, it was 
red, like a fire. When the Sun was thrown up into 
the sky it became round, and never was a man 
afterwards. 


TRANSLATION OF NOTES. 

The First Bushmen * were those who first inhabited (3150') 
the earth. Therefore, their children were those who 
worked with the Sun. Therefore, the people who 
[later] inhabited their country, are those who say 
that the children worked, making the Sun to ascend, 
while they felt that their mothers had agreed 
together that they should throw up, for them, the 
Sun ; that the Sun might warm the earth for them ; 
that they might feel the Sun's warmth, that they 
might be able to sit in the Sun. 

* The men of the early race. 


56 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(3151') j^w^-lna-ssho jke e llgwiya, Sswa-ka-jketen Ine 
llneillnel hi ta jk'au. He ti hm e, Sswa-ka-jke Ine 
ll^all^a hi ta jkauken, au j^we-lna-ssho jke ta 
kokommi. 

(3155') llkoin yan ssiii e jkui, hail Ikakken ; hi ta kugen 
kkakken, hih Ikukko Ikaulkarro. He ti hm e, hi 

o / • • • 7 

t r>u 

ssm llna jk'au ; au hm tatti e, hi hkakken. Hln 
Paula Ine 4kakken, au hi Ine llna Igwa^u. 


II.— 22. 

L. 

THE ORIGIN OF DEATH; PRECEDED BY 
A PRAYER ADDRESSED TO THE YOUNG 
MOON. 


(5159) 

(6160) 

(5161) 

(5162) 

(5163) 

(5164) 

(5165) 


{Dictated, in 1875, in the Kathop dialect , by Di'ajkwain.) 

f / 

I kkan llnau, jkajkauru Ikajtyi jkou ttih-ssa, iten 
llnau, o jkukko l^keya hi jkajkauru, iten Ine jkwe lla, 
ti e, ( ) jkukko l^keya hi jkajkauru, i, he, i Ine llnau, 
iten ka l jkwe lie, iten Ine Ini jkajkauru, he, i-g Ine 

llnau, o i ka Ini ha e, iten Ine ( ) jkunh jhan i 

tsa^aiten, o i Iwkalwka, iten Ine kkui : " jkabbi-a 
Ike ! * Ika h ^u, Ike a ! A sse akke a ^u Ike a ! 

( ) A sse Ika h ^u Ike a ! He Tauki tta Thahnuwa, 

A sse akke a ^u, e, a ka llnau, a Ikuka, a Ikii ll^a, a 
jkou ttin sse ; ( ) o i ^auki ssin Ini a, a Iku ll^a a, 
tten sse ; h sse ll;£am, llkellke a~a. Ta, jkei Ike, a 
jkwaiten dd(5a Iki ha, Ike a, ( ) hd, a ka Iku ll^a a 
jkou ttin sse, o I yauki ssin Ini a ; o jnau ddoa Ikakka 
ha a, ti e, a ssin kwan Iku Ikwei Ikwelkwe. ( ) Aken 


* The meaning of \Jcdbbi-a is not yet clear. 


THE ORIGIN OF DEATH. 


57 


When the first Bushmen had passed away, the (3151') 
Elat Bushmen inhabited their ground. Therefore, 
the Elat Bushmen taught their children about the 
stories of the Eirst Bushmen. 

The Sun had been a man, he talked; they all (3155 ? ) 
talked, also the other one, the Moon. Therefore, 
they used to live upon the earth ; while they felt that 
they spoke. They do not talk, now that they live 
in the sky. 


II.— 22. 

L. 

THE ORIGIN OE DEATH; PRECEDED BY 
A PRAYER ADDRESSED TO THE YOUNG 
MOON. 

We, when the Moon has newly returned alive, (5159) 
when another person has shown us the Moon, we look 
towards the place at which ( ) the other has shown (5160) 
us the Moon, and, when we look thither, we perceive 
the Moon, and when we perceive it, we ( ) shut our (5161) 
eyes with our hands, we exclaim : " \kdbbi-d yonder ! 

Take my face yonder ! Thou shalt give me thy face 
yonder ! ( ) Thou shalt take my face yonder ! That (5162) 
which does not feel pleasant. Thou shalt give me 
thy face, — (with) which thou, when thou hast died, 
thou dost again, living return, ( ) when we did not (5163) 
perceive thee, thou dost again lying down come, — that 
I may also resemble thee. Eor, the joy yonder, 
thou dost always possess it yonder, ( ) that is, (5164) 
that thou art wont again to return alive, when 
we did not perceive thee; while the hare told thee 
about it, that thou shouldst do thus. ( ) Thou (5165) 


58 


SPECIMENS OE BIJSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ilkuan o kkakka, ti e, ssi sse kwaii, ll^arn ll^a ssi jk'au 
ikum sse, o ssi Ikuka." 

(5166) jnau Ilkuan ddoa a, Ikwei ( ) kkoa. Ha ku-kku, 
ha l^ke, ha ) J aukI ka ha sse +gou, ta, ha ^oa ^auki 
(5167) ka ha sse ll^a ha jkau jkum sse; ta, ( ) ha ^oa 

llkoaken Ikuken. He tiken e, ha sse ) J wa llwei, o 

0 0-0/ / 


ha ^oa. 

(5168) jkajkauruken ku-kuiten Ikeya jnau a, ( ) jnau yu 


ttu ^wa ; ta, ha ^oa ^auki llkoaken Ikuken. Ta, ha 
;£da Ikuka, ha sse ll^a ha jkou Ikum sse. jnauii Ine 
(5168^) ku-kuiten Iwke, ( ) ha ^auki ka ha sse +gou ; ta, ha 
Iku +eh-na, ti e, ha ^oa ^auki ka ha sse ll^a ha jkou 
Ikum sse. Ta, ha llkdaken Ikuken. 

• o / O o ^ 

(5169) ( ) He jkajkauru j^kwain, I ; ti e, jnau kwan Ikwei 

kkdi, o hail >"au Jhumm ha. He ha jgwa Ikl jnau 


(5170) 


ttu, l ; ( ) he ha I Inau, hail jgwa jnau ttu, hail kkui: 
" jkui a, ha ttu e a, ha ttu kke ssiii llkoaken Ikwei 


(5171) u, o ha kki-ssa e jnau; hail ka ha ssiii ( ) llkdaken 
Ikammainya ttwl, o ha ttu ; ha sse kwaii Iku ssuken 
u, ha sse kwaii Iku jkdujkdu-a jkhe lid. jkuinjkuin 
(5172) sse kwaii Iku llkhauka ; he sse ( ) kwaii llnau, he Ika-a 
ha, he sse kwaii Iku jkahh tt^ett^eta,* ha sse Iku 


llkdaken Ikuken. 

o o 

(5173) "He e, jk'e, he sse kwan Iku llkdaken ( ) Ikuken 
ttal, o he Ikuka.f Ta, ha ^auki ka ha jhumm n,d-g h 
l^keya ha a, ti e, ha yauld sse twa , 6 ha ; ta, 


(5172 ') * Or, tssi, ttxne-tt%ueten ha. 

(5173') I jk'e sse kwan ||nau, lie Ikuka, he sse llkoaken Ikuken ttai ; 6 
he yauki he jkou jkum sse. Ta, jnau Ilkuan a, Ikwei kku, 
ha ^zkakken ; ha l^ke, ti e, ha ^oa yauki ka ha sse ll^a ha jkou 


THE ORIGIN OE DEATH. 


59 


didst formerly say, that we should also again return 
aliye, when we died." 

The hare was the one who thus ( ) did. He spoke, (5166) 
he said, that he would not be silent, for, his mother 
would not again liying return ; for ( ) his mother was (5167) 
altogether dead. Therefore, he would cry greatly for 
his mother. 

The Moon replying, said to the hare about it ( ) (5168) 
that the hare should leaye off crying ; for, his mother 
was not altogether dead. For, his mother meant that 
she would again liying return. The hare replying, 
said ( ) that he was not willing to be silent; for, he (5168^) 
knew that his mother would not again return aliye. 

For, she was altogether dead. 

( ) And the Moon became angry about it, that the (5169) 
hare # spoke thus, while he did not assent to him 
(the Moon). And he hit with his fist, cleaying the 
hare's mouth; ( ) and while he hit the hare's mouth (5170) 
with his fist, he exclaimed : " This person, his mouth 
which is here, his mouth shall altogether be like this, 
eyen when he is a hare;t he shall ( ) always bear (5171) 
a scar on his mouth ; he shall spring away, he shall 
doubling (?) come back. The dogs shall chase him ; 
they shall, ( ) when they haye caught him, they shall (5172) 
grasping tear him to pieces, J he shall altogether die. 

" And they who are men, they shall altogether ( ) (5173) 
dying go away, when they die. § For, he was not 


* It was a young male hare, the narrator explained. (5169') 

f The hare had also been a person; but, the Moon cursed him, /r-i 7(V^ 
ordering that he should altogether become a hare. ' ' 


Or , bite, tearing him to pieces. 


(5172') 


§ The people shall, when they die, they shall altogether dying (5]73 ? ) 
go away; while they do not again living return. Eor the hare ' 
was the one who thus spoke ; he said that his mother would not 
again living return. 


60 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5174) ha j^oa ka ha sse ( ) li^a ha jk'au ; han Ine Ikakka 
ke, ti e, ha ^oa yauki ka ha sse ll^a ha jk'au jkuni 
sse. He tiken e, ha ka ha sse Ilkoaken ddi jnaii. 
(5175) He e, ( ) jk'e, he sse kwan Iku llkdaken Ikuken. Ta, 
ha llkuan a, kkakka, ti e ha ;£oa yank! ka ha sse ll^a 
(5176) ha jk'au jkuni sse. N llkuan ( ) Ikakka ha a. ti e, 
he kie sse ll^am llkellke n-n ; ti e, n ka ddi he ; he-g 
h ka llnau, 6 ka Ikuka, n ll^a h jk'au jkum sse. Hah 
(5177) ine ( ) Inwai n, o kail kan Ikakka ha a." 

He tiken e, ruama-ggu Ikakka ke, ti e, jnaii ha oa 
(5178) e jkui; ti e, ha Ikwei koa, i, hin e, ( ) jkalkauru 
llwkauwa ha, I, ha sse llkdaken ddi jnaii. Mama- 
gguken kan l^keya ke, ti e, Jnau Iki jkui ta a. 6 ha 
(5179) nkatten-ttu ; he tiken e, ssi ka ( ) llnau, ssl Ikha jnaii, 
6 ssi ka ssi sse ha Inau, ssiten ka Iki Ihiii ikwaii Ike, 
e jkui ta a, ssi l^ugen, ttu ha ; 6 ssiten tta Ilka ti 
(5180) e, ( ) ha a, jnau, ha ka a yauki e. Ta, IS wke a, ha 
6a e Ikui a, hd ka a e. 

• o 7 

r r \ t 

He tiken e, mama-ggu yauki ka ssi hi, ha a-Opua ; 

(5181) 6 hin tta ( ) Ilka ti e, a a, jnaii Ikii 6 e jkui a, ha ka 
a Ikii e. Mama-ggiiken kail I wke v a ssi a, ssi-g Ino 

* The meaning of \\katten-ttu is not yet clear; and the endeavours 
to obtain a hare, so that it might be exactly ascertained from the 
Bushmen which piece of meat was meant, were unsuccessful. The ttu 
at the end of the word shows that some sort of hollow of the human 
body is indicated. 

Since these sheets were sent to press, Dr. J. N. W. Loubser, to 
whom I had applied for information regarding this particular piece 
of meat, was so good as to send me the following lines, accompanied 
by a diagram, which unfortunately it was already too late for me to 
include in the illustrations for the volume : — 

" As regards the ' biltong flesh I have often watched my mother 
cutting biltong, and know that each leg of beef contains really only 


THE ORIGIN OF DEATH. 


61 


willing to agree with me, when I told him about it, 
that he should not cry for his mother ; for, his mother 
would ( ) again live ; he said to me, that, his mother (5174) 
would not again liying return. Therefore, he shall 
altogether become a hare. And ( ) the people, they (5175) 
shall altogether die. For, he was the one who said 
that his mother would not again living return. I ( ) (5176) 
said to him about it, that they (the people) should 
also be like me ; that which I do ; that I, when I am 
dead, I again living return. He ( ) contradicted me, (5177) 
when I had told him about it." 

Therefore, our mothers said to me, that the hare 
was formerly a man; when he had acted in this 
manner, then it was that ( ) the Moon cursed him, (5178) 
that he should altogether become a hare. Our 
mothers told me, that, the hare has human flesh at 
his I! katten-ttu* \ therefore, we, ( ) when we have (5179) 
killed a hare, when we intend to eat the hare, we 
take out the " biltong flesh " f yonder, which is human 
flesh, we leave it; while we feel that ( ) he who is (5180) 
the hare, his flesh it is not. For, flesh (belonging to) 
the time when he formerly was a man, it is. 

Therefore, our mothers were not willing for us to 
eat that small piece of meat; while they felt ( ) that (5181) 
it is this piece of meat with which the. hare was 
formerly a man. Our mothers said to us about it, 
did we not feel that our stomachs were uneasy if we 

one real biltong, i.e. the piece of flesh need not be cut into the 
usual oblong shape, but has this a priori. In other words, it is 
a muscle of this form. From my anatomical knowledge I can only 
find it to correspond to the musculus biceps femoris of the man. It 
will therefore be a muscle sitting rather high up the thigh (E of 
Figure)." 

f The narrator explained I kwqii to be "biltong flesh" (i.e., lean 
meat that can be cut into strips and sun-dried, making " biltong "). 


62 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5182) 

(5183) 

(5184) 

(5185) 

(5186) 

(5187) 

(5188) 

(5189) 

(5190) 

(5191) 

(5192) 


>"au tta, ti e, ssi' ka kkauruken, 6 ssi ha ( ) ha 

&-©pua, 6 ssften tta Ilka ti e, jkul ta a Iku e ; he 

yauki e jnau ka a ; ta a a jnauhkko llna jnau, ha e ; o 

hah tta Ilka ti e, jnau 6a e jkui. ( ) He tiken e, ha 

Inaunkko llna Inau, l ; 6 Inau ka ddl-ddlten llkuah 

e, Ikalkauru ll^kauwa i I ; i sse kwan Ikil llkdaken 
/ , ° 

Ikuken. Ta, 1 ssin sse ( ) kwan llnau, I Ikuka, iten 
ssm sse kwan ll^a I jk'au jkuffi sse ; jnailh llkuah 
ddda a, Tauki Ihum-ma Ikalkauru, o Ikalkauru ken 
ka ha kkakka ( )ha a; hah Ine dnwai jkajkauru. 

He tiken e, Ikajkauru Ine ku-kkui, han Iwke : U 
e jk'e, u koo sse kwan llnau, il Ikuka, u kwan Iku ( ) 


llkdaken Ikuken tchu-ru ssm. Ta, n llkuah ssin 

o o f / o d / 

kkakken, ti e, u kwan Iku llnau, u Ikuka, u kwan 
Iku ll£a u kkoah Ihih, u Tauki llkdaken ( ) Ikuken. 
Ta, h ka llnau, o ka Ikuka, n ll^a h jk'au jkum sse. 
1ST llkuah ssm ka, ue jk'e, il ssin ll^am llkellkeya h-n ; 
ddi tiken ka ddi he ; ( ) he-g h Tauki ta llkdaken 
Ikuken ttai. U e Ik'eten, llkuah e, dda ha ddi ; he 
tiken e, h llkuah ssm +1, ti e, h a liit jkei. jnailh Ikil 

r ~ r 

llnau, o kail kah ( ) tkakka ha a, — o kan llkuah tta 
Ilka ti e, h llkuah +eh-na, ti e, jnau ^oa Tauki llkoaken 


Ikuken, ta, ha Iku Opuoiii, — jnailh Ine a, tkakka ke, 
ti e, ha ( ) ;£da Tauki Opuoiii ; ta ha ^oa llkdaken 
Ikuken. He tiken llkuah e, n Iwkwain, i ; o kah Ikil 
ssin ka, jnau Ikil kkil: 'I, mama kan llkuah Iku ( ) 


Opuoiii.' " 

Ta, he ti, he e, ha Ine j^kwain jnau, i; ti e, jnau 
kwaii Iku Ikwei kkui, o jnailh Tau kkui: "I, mama 
kah llkuah Ikil Opuoiii tta ; hah ka ha sse ( ) Ikaityi 
kkdah Ihih." 0 Inau wa oa Ihumma Ikalkauru, hih 

03 . ... 7 


THE ORIGIN OF DEATH. 


63 


ate ( ) that little piece of meat, while we felt that it (5182) 
was human flesh ; it is not hare's flesh ; for, flesh 
which is still in the hare it is ; while it feels that the 
hare was formerly a man. ( ) Therefore, it is still (5188) 
in the hare ; while the hare's doings are those on 
account of which the Moon cursed us ; that we should 
altogether die. For, we should, ( ) when we died, (5184) 
we should have again living returned ; the hare was 
the one who did not assent to the Moon, when the 
Moon was willing to talk to ( ) him about it; he (5185) 
contradicted the Moon. 

Therefore, the Moon spoke, he said: Ye who are 
people, ye shall, when ye die, ( ) altogether dying (5186) 
vanish away. For, I said, that, ye should, when ye 
died, ye should again arise, ye should not altogether 
( ) die. For, I, when I am dead, I again living (5187) 
return. I had intended, that, ye who are men, ye 
should also resemble me (and) do the things that I do ; 

( ) that I do not altogether dying go away. Ye, who (5188) 
are men, are those who did this deed; therefore, 

I had thought that I (would) give you joy. The 
hare, when I intended ( ) to tell him about it, — while (5189) 
I felt that I knew that the hare's mother had not 
really died, for, she slept, — the hare was the one who 
said to me, that his ( ) mother did not sleep ; for, his (5190) 
mother had altogether died. These were the things 
that I became angry about ; while I had thought 
that the hare would say: 4 Yes; my mother is ( ) (5191) 
asleep.' " 

For, on account of these things, he (the Moon) 
became angry with the hare ; that the hare should 
have spoken in this manner, while the hare did 
not say : " Yes, my mother lies sleeping ; she will 
( ) presently arise." If the hare had assented to the (5192) 


64 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


e, 1 e jk'e, i ssin ssin kwan Iku llkdilkeya jkajkauru ; 
(5193) ta, jkajkauru llkuan ha oa ( ) Ikwei-dda, ti e, I ^auki 
sse kwan llkdaken Ikuken. Inau ka ddi-dditen llkuan 

o o • o o D 

e, jkajkauru Sue llwkau i, i ; he l ta Ine llkdaken 
(5194) Ikuken, i; o ( ) kkumm a, Jnau llkuan a, +kakka ha. 

Ha kuium, han llkuan a, i ka llkdaken Ikuken ttai 
(5195) a; d jnau ka ddi-ddi ; he ha llkuan a, ^auki ( ) 
Ihumma Ikalkauru ; o Ikalkauruken ka ha dkakka ha 
a; han Ine 4nwai jkajkauru, o jkajkauruken ka ha 
Iwkeya ha a. # 

(5196) jkajkauru Ine ( ) kii-kuiten l^ke, ha ka ha ssin 

r \ t 

luhiluhi-ttih +ka ; Ikde-ttau wa ssin e, tssi-i ha, o 
ti e, ha tten-tten he ; ha yauki ssm llannllann ssm 
(5196|-) Ohoken ; ta, ha ( ) kwan Ikil juhi-ta +ka; o ha 
yauki ta Oho. Ha kwan Iku juhijuhf - ttm +ka. 
He tiken e, jnSu ka llnau, ha ssuken ui, ha ttauko 
(5197) jnajnabbi-ten ; o ha ( ) jnajnabbi-ten tta-tt&tten 

jkoe-ttau, o ha Ina, e jkoe-ttau llhmya he; o han 
tta Ilka ti e, jkoe-ttau Ine llhih jkauh-a a Ina. He 
(5198) tiken e, ha ( ) jnajnahhiten, jkoe-ttau kkuiten sse 
tta-ttat-ta ha a. 


THE ORIGIN OF DEATH. 


65 


Moon, then, we who are people, we should have 
resembled the Moon; for, the Moon had formerly ( ) (5193) 
said, that we should not altogether die. The hares 
doings were those on account of which the Moon 
cursed us, and we die altogether; on account of ( ) (5194) 
the story which the hare was the one who told 
him.* That story is the one on account of which we 
altogether die (and) go away ; on account of the 
hare's doings; when he was the one who did not 
( ) assent to the Moon; when the Moon intended (5195) 
to tell him about it; he contradicted the Moon, when 
the Moon intended to tell him about it. 

The Moon ( ) spoke, saying that he (the hare) (5196) 
should lie upon a bare place ; vermin should be those 
who were biting him, at the place where he was 
lying; he should not inhabit the bushes; for, he 
( ) should lie upon a bare place; while he did not (5196^) 
lie under a tree. He should be lying upon a bare 
place. Therefore, the hare is used, when he springs 
up, he goes along shaking his head; while he ( ) (5197) 
shakes out, making to fall the vermin from his head, 
in which the vermin had been hanging; while he 
feels that the vermin hung abundantly in his head. 
Therefore, he ( ) shakes his head, so that the other (5198) 
vermin may fall out for him. 


(This, among the different versions of the Moon and 
Hare story called u The Origin of Death ", has been 
selected on account of the prayer to the young Moon 
with which it begins.) 


66 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


II.— 24. 

L. 

THE MO OH IS HOT TO BE LOOKED AT 
WHEH GAME HAS BEEH SHOT. 

(. Dictated , in 1875, in the Ratkop dialect , ly Diajkwain, who 
heard it from his mother , ^kamme-an.) 

(5643) Ssiten fauki sse ll^koen jkajkauru, o ssl \%h Opuai; 

ta, ssi Iku Ilwkoen, jk'o jh<5a ssi Ina; o ssiten ^auki 
(5644) jkwejkwe ja llkho, o ( ) igwa^u; o ssiten jhummi 
jkajkauru ka 4^1. Hih e, ss! jhummi he. Ta, 
mama-ggu lid +kakka ssi a, ti e, jkajkanru ^auki 
e Hein Ikui, o i llwkoen ha. 

(5645) Ta, ha llnau, ( ) i ll^koen ha, o i l^a Opuai, 
llkheten-llkhdtan ssah hi Opuai, o Opuai ya Ikuken 
ta, o i llwkoen jkajkauru. Opuaiten llnau, ha ^ a 
(5646) ikuka, jkajkauru ( ) likhu kail e Ik! jk'aui Opuai. 
Ta, mama-ggu Iki +kakka ssi a, ti e, Jkajkauru 
llkhiigen Ike, ssi ka llwkoen he, he Iko ss'o Oho, he 
(5647) ta llkho ( ) jkhou llki. Hm e, llkau-ssih Opuai; 
Opuaiten kkofh Ihin, o he llkau-ssinya Opuai. Hm 
Ine Iki sserriten-sserriten jgauoken e, i l^a Opuai, l ; 
(5648) ( ) he Opuai Ikii-g Ine kkoan Ihin, hah Iku-g Ine ttai, 
o hah yauki Ine ddi jgauoken; o hah ki likuan ssin 
>wSn, ha sse Ikuken. Ikalkauru llkhu kan Iku e, Iki 
(5649) ( ) ttwaita. IK, ha Iku-g Ine jk'auwl, I. 

He tiken e, m4ma-ggu yaukl ka ssi !goa-i, ssi 
sse ll«koen, tchueh e, llna |gwa*u ; o mama-gguken 
(5650) kan Kkeya ssi a, ( ) ti e, jkajkauru llnau, ssi 
ll^koenya ha, Opuai a, ssi l^a ha, hah ll^ani ttai 


MOON NOT TO BE LOOKED AT. 


67 


II.— 24. 

L. 

THE MOON IS NOT TO BE LOOKED AT 
WHEN GAME HAS BEEN SHOT. 

We may not look at the Moon, when we have (5643) 
shot game; for, we look, lowering our head, while 
we do not look up, towards ( ) the sky; while we (5644) 
are afraid of the Moon's shining. It is that which 
we fear. For, our mothers used to tell us about it, 
that the Moon is not a good person, if we look at him. 

For, if ( ) we look at him, when we have shot (5645) 
game, the beasts of prey will eat the game, when 
the game lies dying, if we look at the Moon. When 
the game does not die, the Moon's ( ) water is that (5646) 
which causes the game to live. For, our mothers 
used to tell us about it, that, the Moon's water 
yonder, (that) we see, which is on a bush, it resembles 
( ) liquid honey. It is that which falls upon the (5647) 
game; the game arises, when it has fallen upon the 
game. It makes cool the poison with which we shot 
the game; ( ) and the game arises, it goes on, while (5648) 
it does not show signs of poison * ; even if it had 
appeared as if it would die. The Moon's water is 
that which ( ) cures it. And it lives, on account of it. (5649) 

Therefore, our mothers did not wish us to be 
looking about, we should not look at the things which 
are in the sky; while our mothers used to tell us 
about it, ( ) that the Moon, if we had looked at him, (5650) 
the game which we had shot, would also go along like 
the Moon. Our mothers said to us about it, did we 

* Literally, " make," or " become poison." 


68 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


kui >wah jkajkauru. Mama-ggiiken l^keya ssi a, ti 
(5651) e, ssi-g Ino ^au llbkoen, jkajkauru ka ttai? ( ) ha 
^auki Ikelkem lla, ti Opwiirru-e, ta, Jgaue ta !ku 
Jkhwai, o ha ttauko ttai. ©puaiten ssin ll^am i ya, 
(5652) o ssi llbkoenya Jkajkauru. Jgaueten Iku ( ) sse 
Jkhwai, o Opuai ya ttauko ttai ; o ha llk&lke 
jkajkauru, a ssi ssin llbkoenya ha. He tiken e, ssi 
Ihummi ha. ssi llbkoen Ikalkauru; o ssiten tta Ilka 
(5653) ti e, ( ) mama-ggu Iki Ibkeya ssi a, ti e, Opuai ka ha 
sse Ine Iki Ikuih He ssi, o ti e, Jkhwa >*auki llna he. 
(5654) Ssi k(5o Ine lla Ikuken, o llk'oih, o ha ddui-ddiii-sse ( ) 
Ski Ikum lla ssi, o ti e, Jkhwa ^auki llna he. 


MOON NOT TO BE LOOKED AT. 


69 


not see the Moon's manner of going? ( ) he was not (5651) 
in the habit of going to a place near at hand, for, 
the day was used to break, while he was still going 
along. The game would also do the same, if we had 
looked at the Moon. The day ( ) would break, while (5652) 
the game was still going along; while it resembled 
the Moon, at which we had looked. Therefore, we 
feared to look at the Moon; while we felt that ( ) (5653) 
our mothers used to tell us about it, that the game 
would desire to take us away to a place where no 
water was. We could (?) go to die of thirst, while it, 
leading us astray, ( ) took us away to a place where (5654) 
no water was. 




Ikweiten ta liken, 












. 


72 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


III.— 23. 

B. 

THE GIRL OF THE EARLY RACE, WHO 
MADE STARS.* 

(2505) H ^oa a Lkakka ke, ti e, jkuila kkoan Ihiii ; hail 
jki ley a ha Iwkalwka au jkui; han llkau ki llkaiten 
Ikui au !gwa/£u. Hah Ikakka jkui : u jkui e a, hi 
(2506) kkwah sse llkda-ken ddi jko. ( ) Hi ssin kkwah Ine 
jkiiiten ja tta jgwa^u, Ikualkuatten sse jkhd juhf 
ttin jko, au jkowaken Ine e jko, au hi ssin e jkui." 
Hm llkdaken ddi Iko. Iko ssin Ine llnwarriten hi Ikua- 

O • • DO O D 

(2507) Ikuatten ; au jkogen ( ) tatti e, jko tten llnwarriten ; 

t 

au Ikualkuatten jgwde-ten lia ; h 6 ti hih e, jko tten-a 
lla hi Ikualkuatten. jkogen llnau ti e, jkd kkah jkhe 

/Vi 

(2508) jk'au, i ; jkogen llkuan llnwarriten ( ) juha, au jkogen 
ka, jko sse llkhau jkhejkhe, au jkogen tatti e, Ikua- 
lkuatten Ine kkah lyuonm; au Ikualkuattaken tdtti, 
(2509) llkoih a J^uShmya ; hah Ine ( ) juhf ssin ha-ha ka 
Ivarra ; Ikualkuattaken Ine Ivuonni ; au hm Ine 

•/V. ' O D o d o */Vo / 

tkamma jgaiie ; hi sse-g Ine tten akken, au jko wa-g 
Ine tten akken. Ikualkudtten sse-g Ine II yam Ikhe 

O O D O D o O A o • 

* This story was related to \\kablo by his mother, \kwi-dn. 


THE GIRL WHO MADE STARS. 


73 


III.™ 23. 

B . 

I 

THE GIEL OF THE EAELY EACE, WHO 
MADE STARS.* 

My mother was the one who told me that the girl (2505) 
arose ; she put her hands into the wood ashes ; she 
threw up the wood ashes into the sky. She said to 
the wood ashes: u The wood ashes which are here, 
they must altogether become the Milky Way. ( ) They (2506) 
must white lie along in the sky, that the stars may 
stand outside of the Milky Way, while the Milky Way 
is the Milky Way, while it used to be wood ashes." 

They (the ashes) altogether become the Milky Way. 

The Milky Way must go round with the stars; 
while the Milky Way ( ) feels that, the Milky Way (2507) 
lies going round; while the stars sail along; there- 
fore, the Milky Way, lying, goes along with the Stars. 

The Milky Way, when the Milky Way stands upon 
the earth, the Milky Way turns ( ) across in front, (2508) 
while the Milky Way means to wait(?), while the 
Milky Way feels that the Stars are turning back; 
while the Stars feel that the Sun is the one who 
has turned back; he ( ) is upon his path; the Stars (2509) 
turn back; while they go to fetch the daybreak; 
that they may lie nicely, while the Milky Way lies 
nicely. The Stars shall also stand nicely around. 

* This girl is said to have been one of the people of the early (2505*1 
race (\xwvAna-ssh6-\k'e) and the 'first 1 girl; and to have acted V 
ill. She was finally shot by her husband. These j xwiAna- 
88hd-m are said to have been stupid, and not to have understood 
things well. 


74 


SPECIMENS OF BIJSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 2510 ) 

( 2511 ) 

( 2512 ) 

( 2513 ) 

( 2514 ) 

( 2515 ) 

( 2516 ) 


ttin akken. ( ) Hi sse-g Ine jg wee- ten Juki ssin hi 
jnwa, he, hi Ikwaiten jgwetenlgweten Ikei hi. Au 
hin tatti, hi Iku e Ikualkuatten, e Iko. 

jkogen Ine tten-ssa, Iko jkhwaiten, he jkuila llkau 
ki llkaita jkui, i, ( ) ha sse-g Ine Iko akken ; ha ssih 
Ine ttenya lla, au ha tatti e, ha Iku juhitta jgwa^u. 
Ha ssin Ine tten, llnwarrita lla, au han tatti e, Ikua- 
lkuatten llvam llnwarri-ten. Hin llnwarri-ten luhi 

ODO/Vo DO 3 0*0 

hhoa ( ) jgwa^u, jgwa^uken Iku tta; Ikualkuatta- 
ken Iku e, ttal lla ; au hin t&tti e, hi jgweten. Hi 
ssin lele ; hi ssin ll^a, hi Ihinlhin ssa ; hi ssin jgweten- 

K> 

jgweten Ikei hi jnwa. Hin llkhau jkui-ten, au ( ) 
* 9 9 9 9 
llkoin Ihih ssa. llkoin yah le, hin jkhe +a ttin; au 

f f t 

hin tatti e, hi ssin llnwarri-ten Ikuhssho llkoin. 

' DO* 

9 9 9 

Ilgagen Ine Ihih ssa ; hin Ine llkhau jki ; au hin 
ssin jhamm jkui-ta. Hin Ine tatti, ( ) hi Ine jkhe 

D 

*ka ttin; hi sse-g Ine jgweten; au hin tatti, llga-g 
Ine e. Hin e, jke Ine jkagen i ; au hin tatti e, jk'au 
Ine +ka+kaka. Au hin tatti, Ikualkuatten ttamOpua 

O^ODO O JL o 

*#y8. Ilgagen llna ( ) jk'au. jkogen ttamOpua 
jkoeya ; au hin tatti e, jkui llkuan e. Hd ti hin e, 

V 9 9 

hi ttamOpua jkoeya, i. Au hin tatti e, jkuila a 
kkakka, Iko ssin kkwon jkdeya jke a, jke sse jkagen 
jkui-ten, ( ) au llga ttss'umma. Ta, jk'au >auki ssin 
Ikdeya, au Iko >auki llna. Hin kda Ikualkuatten. 

• j • ododo 

I kui I dken +i, ti e, ha ssan llkhau ki llkaiten jhuin 

• « o ] J D 0*0 


THE GIRL WHO MADE STARS. 


75 


( ) They shall sail along upon their footprints, which (2510) 
they, always sailing along, are following. While they 
feel that, they are the Stars which descend. 

The Milky Way lying comes to its place, to which the 
girl threw up the wood ashes, ( ) that it may descend (2511) 
nicely; it had lying gone along, while it felt that 
it lay upon the sky. It had lying gone round, while 
it felt that the Stars also turned round. They turning 
round passed over ( ) the sky. The sky lies (still); (2512) 
the Stars are those which go along; while they feel 
that they sail. They had been setting; they had, 
again, been coming out ; they had, sailing along, been 
following their footprints. They become white, when 
( ) the Sun comes out. The Sun sets, they stand (2513) 
around above ; while they feel that they did turning 
follow the Sun. 

The darkness comes out ; they (the Stars) wax red, 
while they had at first been white. They feel that 
( ) they stand brightly around ; that they may sail (2514) 
along; while they feel that it is night. Then, the 
people go by night ; while they feel that the ground 
is made light. While they feel that the Stars shine 
a little. Darkness is upon ( ) the ground. The (2515) 
Milky Way gently glows; while it feels that it is 
wood ashes. Therefore, it gently glows. While it 
feels that the girl was the one who said that the 
Milky Way should give a little light for the people, 
that they might return home by night, ( ) in the (2516) 
middle of the night. For, the earth would not have 
been a little light, had not the Milky Way been there. 

It and the Stars. 

The girl thought that she would throw up (into the 
air) roots of the I huih, in order that the I huih roots 


76 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2517) 

(2518) 

(2519) 

(2520) 

(2521) 

(2522) 


9 9 9 9 9 

en-en, Ilium en-en sse ddi Ikualkuatten ; ( ) h6 ti 
hiii e, Ikualkuatten Ikiya, l ; au hin tatti e, Ihum 
en-en Ikii e. 


Hail lhaihm TkamOpua llkau jka tie Ikui, au jgwa^u, 
ha sse Ine Ikati llkau ki llkaiten Ihuih en-en ; au han 
tatti e, ( ) ha jwkwainya ha ^oa, ti e, ha ^oa ^auki 
a ha jhuin en-eh e Iwkwalya, ha sse ha llwei ; ta, ha 


Iku llna llneih. Hah Tauki I lei, hah a l^kua ; ha 

9 ~~ u ' 9 ° 9 

ssih Ine I lei, ha kkom-ma ha Ihuih; ( ) ha ssih Ine 
Ikilki-ssa ha-ha a hi ; ha ssin Ine hi ; ta, ha llkah-a ; 


au han jkhauken tta, llneih. Ha ^oa-kengguken Ikii 
e, ttai, Hd e, l^kua. Hin Ikilki-ssa hi Ihuih; hi 
ssih hi. ( ) Hah Ikii leta ha ka Ilnein-Opua, he, ha ^oa 
ttabba Ihoa ha a hi. Ha ka llkha-ken Ikii Igu Ikhe ; 
au hin tatti e, ha Tauki Inauhkko liken. He, ha Ikii 
Inauhkko llna llneih. Ha ^oa-ken Iku a, ( ) Ikilki-ssa 

/ & 9 9 9 

ha ha. Ha ssih Iku haha leta ISneih-Opua ; au ha 

f KJ 9 

^oa-ken +i, ti e, ha Tauki hi Tahyaurrii-ken Ikhwah 
Ta, ha Ikii hi ha oa a InuTo, ha jkhwai. ( ) Au han 
+i, ti e, ^auTaurrii-ken l^kalwka ssan ddi kkii ta 
ssefriten. He e, Inwa Ine ddi kiii ta sserri-ten. 
Igwarra a jkauri ssho, hah Ine ^ao ; au Igwarra-ken 


(2517 ') * She threw up a scented root (eaten by some Bushmen) called 

\huih, which became stars ; the red (or old) \huin making red stars, 
the white (or young) \huin making white stars. This root is, 
\Xkabbo says, eaten by baboons and also by the porcupine. 

The same girl also made locusts, by throwing up into the sky the 
peel of the Ykhissi [an edible root] which she was eating. 

(2521') f II Icabbo here explained that, when a girl has 'grown', she 
is put into a tiny hut, made by her mother, with a very small 
aperture for the door ; which her mother closes upon her. When 
she goes out, she looks down upon the ground; and when she 


THE GrIBL WHO MADE STABS. 


77 


should become Stars; ( ) therefore, the Stars are red; (2517) 
while they feel that (they) are j hum roots.* 

She first gently threw up wood ashes into the sky, 
that she might presently throw up I hum roots ; while 
she felt that ( ) she was angry with her mother, (2518) 
because her mother had not given her many \huin 
roots, that she might eat abundantly ; for, she was in 
the hut. She did not herself go out to seek food; 
that she might get (?) I huin for herself; ( ) that she (2519) 
might be bringing it (home) for herself ; that she 
might eat ; for, she was hungry ; while she lay ill in 
the hut. Her mothers were those who went out. 

They were those who sought for food. They were 
bringing home \ huin, that they might eat. ( ) She (2520) 
lay in her little hut, which her mother had made 
for her. Her stick stood there ; because she did not 
yet dig out food. And, she was still in the hut. Her 
mother was the one who ( ) was bringing her food. (2521) 
That she might be eating, lying in the little hut f ; 
while her mother thought that she (the girl) did not 
eat the young men's game ( i.e . game killed by them). 

For, she ate the game of her father, who was an 
old man. ( ) While she thought that the hands of (2522) 
the young men would become cool. Then, the arrow 
would become cool. The arrow head which is at the 
top, it would be cold ; while the arrow head felt that 
the bow was cold ; ( ) while the bow felt that his (2523) 


returns to the hut, she sits and looks down. She does not go 
far, or walk about at this time. When presently she becomes 
a 'big girl 5 , she is allowed to look about, and to look afar again; 
being, on the first occasion, allowed to look afar over her mother's 
hand. She leaves the small hut, when allowed to look about and 
around again ; and she then walks about like the other women. 

During the time she is in retreat, she must not look at the springbok, (2522') 
lest they should become wild. 


78 


SPECIMEN'S OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2523) tatti e, Ihouken Ine ^ao ; ( ) an Ihouken tatti e, ha 
l^kalwka e yao. An Ikuila-ken 4! ha Ilk!, e ha ha k! 
*e hi, au whai eh-eh ; ha llki-ten kkah le Ihou, Ihou 
(2524) ukai-e Ine ddi kkiii ta sserr!-ten ; hah Ikue-da, hah ( ) 
+L He ti h!h e, ha Shammi Taiiyaurra-ken Ikhwai, L 
Ha 6a -ken a, ha jkwui hi, an ha-ha. Au hah tatti e, 
ha ssih ttabba ha oa Iwkalwka ; ha ssih ttabba k! Ihm 
lla, ha Ilk!. 


III.— 28. 

L, 

THE GREAT STAR, IGAHNU, WHICH, 
SINGING, NAMED THE STARS. 

( Related , in 1875, by Dialkwain.) * 


(5576) Igaunu, hah ha oa e Ikuatten jkerri ; he tiken e, ha 
Ike e Igaunu, i; 6 hah tta Ilka ti e, ha Ik! ha a, 
(5577) Ikwitenjkwitya Ikua Ikuatten Ikeilkei, o hah ( ) tta 
Ilka t! e, ha lid e Ikferri. He tiken e, ha Ikwiten- 
Ikwiten Ikua Ikuatten Ikeilkei, !. He tiken e Ikua- 
Ikuatten Ik! he Ikeilkei, ! ; o h!h tta Ilka ti e, Igaunu 


(5578) Ik! a Ikwiya he Ikeilkei. Hah ( ) ha Ikutten, o ha 
Ikwl Ikua Ikuatten Ikeilkei. Hah ka: " llywhai," 6 
Ikua Ikuatten e +ehhttau ; hin e, ha dda he a ll^whai ; 
he ka Inailnain, h!h e, e ll^whai. 


(5576 J ) * |k6m l^ugenddiken a oa +kakka ke Ikuatten ka kkumm." 


THE GREAT STAR, jGAUNU. 


79 


(the young man's) hands were cold. While the girl 
thought of her saliva, which, eating, she had put into 
the springbok meat; this saliva would go into the 
bow, the inside of the bow would become cool ; she, 
in this manner, ( ) thought. Therefore, she feared (2524) 
the young men's game. Her father was the one from 
whom she alone ate (game). While she felt that she 
had worked (i.e. treated) her father's hands ; she had 
worked, taking away her saliva (from them). 


III.— 28. 

L. 

THE GREAT STAR, \GAUNU, WHICH, 
SINGING, NAMED THE STARS. 

\gdunu * he was formerly a great Star ; therefore, his (5576) 
name is \ gdunu) while he feels that he was the one 
who formerly spoke (lit. u called") the Stars' names; 
while he ( ) feels that he is a great one. Therefore, (5577) 
he called the Stars' names. Therefore, the Stars 
possess their names ; while they feel that \gdunu was 
the one who called their names. He ( ) formerly (5578) 
sang, while he uttered the Stars' names. He said 
u Wywhai " t to (some) Stars which are very small; 
they are those of which he made I! ywhai ; their small, 
fine ones are those which are Wywhwi. 

* "My (paternal) grandfather, Vtfigen-dd'i, was the one who told (5576'' 
me star's stories." ' 

f The stars II ywTim I cnti and II xwhai-Qpua were identified as 
"Altair"or "Alpha Aquilae", and "Gamma Aquilae", respectively, 
by the late Mr. George Maclear and Mr. Finlay of the Royal 
Observatory, on October 10, 1873, at Mowbray. W^whai gwai 
was behind a tree and too low to be distinguished. 


80 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5579) Hd tiken ( ) e, llgau^u llnau, ke Ikualkuatta ssuen- 
ssuen j^uonniya, hail Taiiki ta ka sse llnallna jkau^u ; 

(5580) ta, ka +en-na, ti e, jgaue e, o ll^wkai ya ( ) tten 
j^uoiiniya. Hail Ikii jkuiten; ta, ka Iki ll^koen, ke 
Ikualkudtten ; kin e, ka Ik5a-sse ke ; o kail tta Ilka ti 
I, ha +en-na, ti e, jgaue ta IkuS Ikuatten e. 


III.— 27. 

L. 

WHAT THE STABS SAY, AND A PRAYER 
TO A STAR. 

(Related, in May, 1879, ly Ihan^kass'o.) 

(8447) Hi Slkuaii ka, ki ssin Sl^amki Inilni tckueii. He 
tiken e, ki Ine ta, Ikuatten sse Ikea ki li, e ki ll^kua 
(8448) yaiiki ttamOpua ttan, i ; Ikuatten ( ) sse a ki a 
Ikuatten li, Ikuatten li, e Ikuatten ddi !^ougen-ddi, # 
i. Ta, Ikuatten ^auki tsdrre ; Ikuattaken llkkoa ka 
Iki ka. Hd tiken e, ki Ine ta, Ikuatten sse a ki a 
(8449) Ikuatten ( ) II, ki ssin llwkua Tauki ttan. 

Ikua Ikuatten llkuan ka ka : u Tsau ! Tsau ! 77 kd 

ODODO OD D D 

tiken e lvam-ka-lk 7 d ta ka, Ikualkuatta llwkao d ki 

o /C o • / o 2 o 3 

(8450) wai ( ) tsa^aiten ; Ikualkuatta ka : " Tsau! 77 ki ta: 
u Tsau ! Tsau ! 77 

D D # 

N-na ssin ttumm-i ki. ET tutu n jkoin, ti e, tss 7 e 
de Inu e Ikueida. 1ST jkoin yan Ine Ikakka ke, ti e, 
(8451) Ikua Ikuatten ( ) e, e Ikueida. Ikua Ikuatten e ta : 

u Tsau ! 77 au ki llwkao a jk 7 e wai tsa^aiten. Hd 

tiken e. ii llnau, n Ine ki, n Ine ttumm-i ki. Ikua- 

o 1 J * o d 


(8447') 


* !xoh, 'rich 5 ; pi. j^ouken. 


WHAT THE STARS SAY. 


81 


Therefore, ( ) the porcupine, when these Stars have, (5579) 
sitting, turned hack, he will not remain on the 
hunting ground ; for, he knows that it is dawn, when 
II ywhai has, ( ) lying, turned hack. He returns (5580) 
home ; for, he is used to look at these Stars ; they 
are those which he watches ; while he feels that he 
knows that the dawn's Stars they are. 


III.— 27. 

L. 

WHAT THE STAES SAY, AND A PRAYER 
TO A STAR. 

They (the Bushmen) wish, that they may also (8447) 
perceive things. # Therefore, they say that the Star 
shall take their heart, with which they do not a little 
hunger; the Star ( ) shall give them the Star's (8448) 
heart, — the Star's heart, — with which the Star sits 
in plenty. Por the Star is not small ; the Star seems 
as if it had food. Therefore, they say, that the Star 
shall give them of the Star's ( ) heart, that they may (8449) 
not hunger. 

The Stars are wont to call, " Tsau ! Tsau ! " there- 
fore the Bushmen are wont to say, that the Stars 
curse for them the springboks' ( ) eyes; the Stars (8450) 
say, u Tsau ! " they say, " Tsau ! Tsau ! " I am one 
who was listening to them. I questioned my grand- 
father ( Tsqtsi ), what things it could be that spoke 
thus. My grandfather said to me that the Stars ( ) (8451) 
were those who spoke thus. The Stars were those 
who said, " Tsau ! " while they cursed for the people 


* i.e. things which their dogs may kill. 


G 


(8447') 


82 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8452) Ikuatta Ine ta : " Tsau ! Tsau!" ( ) likuahnah a hi 
l^ke a. 

IN' llkuah tatti, h Iku ten-ten hi h Iko'm, h a Ine ss'<5, 
hi n Ikoin, an ha ku^rre luhi ss'o. He tiken e, h 
(8453) ( ) Ine tutu ha, au tchu&h e Ikueida. Hah ln£ ta, 
Ikualkuatten e Ikueida ; he ll^kao a jk'e wai tsa^aiten.^ 

N Ikoin llkuah ka ssih +kdkken, au llwkdagu, au 
(8454) ( ) llwk<5agu wa Ikati Ihih ; ha Ine ta : "A koa sse 
dkke a II, e a ddi I^ougen-ddi I, a sse Ika h II, h II e 
h llvdaia Tanki ta jkhelkhe, I. H ssih ll^amki jkauih, 
(8455) hi a. ( ) Ta, h ddda llkan-a. Ta, a llkhoa Ikauenya ; 

/ ' yj 

hin e, a yaiiki tsdrre. Ta, h llkan-a. A sse dkke a 
jkautu, e a jkauenya, I. A sse Ikea h jkautu, a sse 
(8456) Sl^amki Hkah. ( ) Aken il^amki akke a llku, a sse 
Ika n llku e h Tauki IkhI, i. Ta, h ddda ttan-i. A 
sse akke a llku. Ta, h llnau, h llku e a, h ttan-i, I." 
(8457) ( ) Ha llkuah Iku ka, Inwa ssih jkhejkhdya ha wdi ; 

hin e, ha ka Ikuatten a ha a, Ikudtten llku, au Ikuatta 
Ine Ikei ha llku, e ha ttan-i, I. 

(8458) Ha llkuah Iku Ine Ikam ui ha ( ) ttu, hah Iku 
Ihih ; hah ssueh ; au han tatti, ha Iku ka, ha sse ss<5 
ko Ikou Inwa. 


( 8453 ') 


* N llknan +i, ti e, wai ta kii llkuan |ku e. 


WHAT THE STAES SAY. 


83 


the springboks' eyes. Therefore, when I grew up, 

I was listening to them. The Stars said, " Tsau ! 

Tsau ! " ( ) Summer is (the time) when they sound. (8452) 
Because I used to sleep with my grandfather, I was 
the one who sat with my grandfather, when he sat in 
the coolness outside. Therefore, I ( ) questioned (8453) 
him, about the things which spoke thus. He said, 
the Stars were those who spoke thus ; they cursed for 
the people the springboks' eyes.* 

My grandfather used to speak to Canopus, when ( ) (8454) 
Canopus had newly come out ; he said : u Thou shalt 
give me thy heart, with which thou dost sit in plenty, 
thou shalt take my heart, — my heart,— with which 
I am desperately hungry. That I might also be full, 
like thee. ( ) For, I hunger. For, thou seemest to (8455) 
be satisfied (with food); hence thou art not small. 

For, I am hungry. Thou shalt give me thy stomach, 
with which thou art satisfied. Thou shalt take my 
stomach, that thou mayst also hunger. ( ) Give (8456) 
thou me also thy arm, thou shalt take my arm, with 
which I do not kill. For, I miss my aim. Thou 
shalt give me thy arm. For, my arm which is here, 

I miss my aim with it." ( ) He desired that the (8457) 
arrow might hit the springbok for him ; hence, he 
wished the Star to give him the Star's arm, while the 
Star took his arm, with which he missed his aim. 

He shut his ( ) mouth, he moved away, he sat (8458) 
down ; while he felt that he wished to sit and sharpen 
an arrow. 


* I think that it was all the springbok. 


( 8458 ') 


84 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


III. — 30. 

L. 

iKO-GjNUli-TARA, WIFE OF THE DAWN'S- 
HEART STAR, JUPITER. 

( Related in April and May , 1879, by |hah4kass'o, who heard it 
from his mother , l^abbi-ah, and her mother , +kamm!.) 

(8393) Hi llkuan iwlma jhaken,* hiii Ine llkeh-i jhaken. 

Hin ha Ine ll^alya tin, an Shaken an hi llkeh-i jhaken. 
(8394) He, hi ha Ine llnau, jhaken ka ssuehssuen ( ) yah ka 
le, hin Ine jkannjkahn Slwke, hin Ine Sl^ai jhaken ka 
ssuhhssueh, au jkoii^u. 

He gwai f ha Ine hoho ha l^karralwkarra-ttu ka 
(8395) Inanna, hah ha Ine llkhde te hi ( ) au jhaken. He, 

t y 

hi X Iku !ne a jko-gjnuin-tara a jhagen. He jkO-g- 

t 9 

jnuin-tara ha Ine kui, hah Ikakka ha ll^a-Opua: 
"A kan Iku sse t& jhaken e; h ssih Ikh a ha hi. 
(8396) ( ) Ta, a a ssan Ikilkx jkhwa.§ Td, jhaken e, hi l^kuai 
Fa'uki ta +hannuwa. J? 

He tiken e, jk(5-g jnuin-tara hd Iku llnau, ha ha ss'o 


(679(F) 


(8394 J ) 

(8395') 

(8396 J ) 


9 9 

* lhakaken llkellkeya " rice" ; hi ta ssuehssuen yah Ine llkhoa 
ll^e. jhakaken Iku e ha ka tchuen ; hah yauki aken Ilka ha, au 
ha e lhaken llkan. 
f jgwai laiti. 

J jgwai-gh llkuan e, hin koro-ggu, hih jk'o-ggu, llhoe-ggil. 

§ jk5-gluuih-tara ka jkhwS llkuan e. jgaue-|!n a jkuken jhoa 
laiti a Ikhwa, au {hum. 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN's-HEART STAR, 


85 


III.— 30. 

L . 

\KO-G\NUIN-TARA , WIFE OF THE DAWN'S- 
HEAET STAE, JUPITEE. 

They sought for \ haken.* * * § they were digging out (8393) 

I haken. They went about, sifting \ haken, while they 
were digging out \ haken. And, when the larvee of 
the \hdken ( ) were intending to go in (to the earth (8394) 
which was underneath the little hillock), they collected 
together, they sifted the larvae of the | haken on the 
hunting ground. 

And the hyena f took the blackened perspiration of 
her armpits, she put it into ( ) the \ liaken. And (8395) 
they X gave to \k6-g\nuih-tdra of the \hdgen. And 
\k6-g\nidh-tdra exclaimed, she said to her younger 
sister: " Thou shalt leave this I haken alone; I will 
be the one who eats it. ( ) For, thou art the one (8396) 
who shalt take care of the child. § For, this J haken, 
its smell is not nice." 

Therefore, as \k6-g\nmi-tdra sat, eating the \ haken, 

* j haken resembles " rice " (i.e. " Bushman rice"); its larvae (6790') 
are like (those of) " Bushman rice \ haken is a thing to eat ; 
there is nothing as nice as it is, when it is fresh. 

f A female hyena. (8394 J ) 

J The hyenas (it) was, with the jackals, the blue cranes (and) (8395') 
the black crows. 

§ It was yko-gXnuin-tara 1 8 child. The Dawn's-Heart was the (8396') 
one who buried the child away from his wife, under the \ hum 
(a plant with a handsome green top, and little bulbous roots at the 
end of fibres in the ground. The roots are eaten by the Bushmen 
raw, and also roasted and made into meal, which is said to be 
excellent. I han^kass'o thinks that the flower is red ; but has not 
seen the plant since he was a child). 


86 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8397) au jhaken, jkaujkammih * ha Iku 111 hin ( ) llhuhu.*)* 
Inuin yah llyamki kuerre, Inuin yah llyamki ssuen. 

• o */ /w o o — / • O J ^ Ar o o 

jkuabba aken llyamki kkuerre Ihin, jkuabba aken 
Iku ssudn. Ikiilkuken llyamki kuerre. Hd tiken e, 
(8398) ha ha ( ) Iku-g Ine jkain ui, $ hah Iku-g Ine Ikuei Iki, 
hah jk'atten Ilk. Ha Sl^a-Opuaken ha Iku-g Ine 
llkdrriya jkuh leta ha.§ Hah ha Iku-g Ine lla ; hah 
(8399) Iku-g Ine Han le inwa. ( ) Hah ha Iku-g Ine 1 1 ah 
llkhoessin jnwa. 

Ha ll^a-Opuaken hd Ine kui : u jk<5-gjnuih-tara we ! 
a ^a yauki sse jhamm a jkhwa kkwaken?" He, 
(8400) ha hd Ine kui: U A llkuan ( ) sse Iki sse ha, ha 
sse kkwaken, h ssih llk<5aken Ikdkka ha, au n llkhou- 
llkhougen Jnaunko jkhejkhdya." Hd tiken e, ha ha 
(8401) Ind ta, hah +kakka ha ( ) ll^a-Opua: "A kod ssih 
ar<5ko Ikilki ssa jkhwa, au n Inaunko 4enna, he, a ssan 
Iki sse jkhwa au jgaue." 

p 

Ha ll^a-Opuaken Ine jkuiten, hin kda jgwai, au 
(8402) jgwai ii jkuotta ( ) jkaujkammi, hin Ine jkuiten, au 
jgaue- li-guken || Iku llna jhahn. jgaue- 1 in Iku-g Ine 
jkuiten ssa, au jkhwan Iku ^wa llna, au ha Jkouki- 
Opuaken Iku a Iki jkhwa. 

(8403) ( ) Han hd Ine ssa, hah hd Ine kui: " Tssa ra d 

jkd-gjnuih-tara ^au ddoa Ikoi au jkhwa, au jkhwa 

(8397') * jkam (pi. jkaujkammi). 

(8396') f llkuan Ihmlhin, hin Iku ssuenssueh jk'au. 

(8398') t Hkuah tatti, ha Iku-g Ine ddi llkhellkhe. 

§ Au hah kaha jkuxe Ikea ha llkaxai. 

(8402') || llkuan ti e, ha llkuan ||na jk'e kkuften. NT llkuan +i, 

ti e, koro Ihouken-ggu llkuan ss'o oa e ; hi tau ||^khwi-ggu, hi tau 
jk'6u|ko-ggu, hin toi-ggu. 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWX's-HEART STAR. 


87 


the ornaments # (i.e. , earrings, bracelets, leglets, anklets) 
of themselves ( ) came off. * * * § j* The kaross (skin cloak) (8397) 
also unloosened (itself), the kaross also sat down. 

The skin petticoat also unloosened (itself), the skin 
petticoat sat down. The shoes also unloosened (them- 
selves). Therefore, she ( ) sprang up,J she in this (8398) 
manner trotted away. Her younger sister, shrieking, 
followed her. § She (\Jco-g\nuin-tdra) went; she went 
into the reeds. ( ) She went to sit in the reeds. (8399) 

Her younger sister exclaimed : u 0 \ko-g\nuih-tdra ! 
wilt thou not first allow the child to suck?" And 
she (the elder sister) said: " Thou ( ) shalt bring it, (8400) 
that it may suck; I would altogether talk to thee, 
while my thinking- strings still stand." Therefore, 
she spoke, she said to her ( ) younger sister : u Thou (8401) 
must be quickly bringing the child, while I am still 
conscious ; and thou shalt bring the child to-morrow 
morning." 

Her younger sister returned home, also the hyena, 
when the hyena had put on ( ) the ornaments; they (8402) 
returned home, while the Dawn's-Heart and the 
rest || were (still) out hunting. The Dawn's-Heart 
returned home, as the child cried there, while his 
younger sister-in-law was the one who had the child. 

( ) He came, he exclaimed: "Why is it, that (8403) 
\k6-g\nuih-tdra is not attending to the child, while 
the child cries there ? " The hyena did not speak. 


* Bracelet, anklet, leglet. 

f (They) came off, they sat down upon the ground. 

X She felt that she became a beast of prey. 

§ Because she wanted to run to catch hold of her elder sister. x 7 

|| I think that he was with other people. I think that they (8402') 
seem to have been the jackals' husbands, and the quaggas, and the 
wildebeests with the ostriches. 


(8397') 

(8396') 

(8398') 


88 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ddoa )Va llna ? " I g wain ha )"auki +kakken. I^e-dde- 
( 8404 ) ydeykken ha ddatten Iki Jkhwa. Han ( ) !ne Ikk ; ha 
llka^ai Ihan Ine jhahn, he, ha Ine jk'oii jkhwa. Ha 
Ine Ikarh lla ha llka^ai ; ha ha Ine ttai, jkhe lla jnwa. 
( 8405 ) Ha ha Ine kui: " jkd-gjnuih-tdra wwe ! ( ) Ink Ikhwa 
kkwaken." He, ha llka^ai ha Ine ssuken Ihih jnwa ; 
ha llka^ai Ine Ikuei Iki, ha [kii^e ssa ; ha llka^ai ha 
( 8406 ) Ine Ikei ha, ha Ine llkdo, k ha ( ) llka^ai jkhwa. Ha 

. r 

ha Ine ta: kah Iku a." He, ha llka^ai hd Ine k 

Ikhwa Ine kkwaken. Ha hd Ink ta : "A koa ssah 

• ° D O D 

( 8407 ) ardko Iki sse jkhwa, au h jnaunko +enna; td, ( )h 
tail n Ilkhdullkhdugen sse jk'ujk'u." He, ha ll^a-Opua 
ha Ine jk'ou Ikhwa, ha Ine jkuiten; an ha llka^ai Ine 
lla Id jnwa. 

( 8408 ) He, ha ha Slnau jkui li^a, ha ( ) Ine Ikam lla ha 
llka^ai ; au hah tdtti, ha llka^ai a ssih Ikuei koa, ha 
a; ha llka^ai ta: u A koa ssah ardko Iki sse jkhwa, 
( 8409 ) ta, h tan n ssih +i-lkaih-u, au u, au ka tdtti, ( ) n 
^auki Ine +ehna." He, ha ll^a-Opua hd Ine Iki lla 
jkhwa au jkiii ll^k, ha Ine lla ha llka^ai, ha hd Ine 
Ikhe ssa. Ha ha Ine kiii : u Ikd-glnuih-tara wwe ! 
( 8410 ) Ink jkhwa ( ) kkwaken." Ha llka^ai ha Ine ssuken 
Ihih jnwa ; ha Ine jku^e jkhe Ha ha ll^a-Opua. He, 
ha Ine Ikei ha ll^a-Opua. Ha ll^a-Opua hd ka : 66 N 
( 8411 ) kah Iku a, ( ) h kah Iku a." Ha hd Ine k jkhwa Ine 
kkwaken. Ha hd Ind ta : u A koa ardko sse sse, td, 
h tan n ssih H- 1 karri- it au u, h koa ^aiiki kkdt-tau 

o ' O 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN'S-HEART STAR. 


89 


\ye-dde~y6e * was soothing the child. She ( ) waited ; (8404) 
her elder sister's husband went to hunt ; and she took 
the child upon her back. She went to her elder 
sister ; she walked, arriving at the reeds. She 
exclaimed: "0 \k6-g\nuin-tdra \ ( ) let the child (8405) 
suck." And her elder^sister sprang out of the reeds ; 
her elder sister, in this manner, came running ; her 
elder sister caught hold of her, she turning (her body 
on one side) gave her ( ) elder sister the child. She (8406) 
said: "I am here!" And her elder sister allowed 
the child to suck. She said: u Thou must quickly 
bring the child (again), while I am still conscious; 
for, ( ) I feel as if my thinking-strings would fall (8407) 
down." And her younger sister took the child upon 
her back, she returned home; while her elder sister 
went into the reeds. 

And, near sunset, she ( ) went to her elder sister; (8408) 

while she felt that hei\ elder sister was the one who 

£ 

had thus spoken to her about it ; her elder sister 
said : u Thou must quickly bring the child, for, I feel 
as if I should forget you, while I feel that ( ) I do (8409) 
not know." And, her younger sister took the child 
near sunset, she went to her elder sister, she stood. 

She exclaimed: U Q \k6-g\nuin-tara\ let the child ( )(8410) 
suck." Her elder sister sprang out of the reeds ; she 
ran up to her younger sister. And she caught hold 
of her younger sister. Her younger sister said : 
u I am here ! ( ) I am here ! " She allowed the child (8411) 
to suck. She said : '^Thou must quickly come 
(again) ; for, I feel as if I should forget you, (as if) 

I should not any longer think of you." ( ) Her (8412) 


* The name of the younger sisterof \k6-g\nuih-tarayt&& \xe-dde-yde . (6547') 
She was a Y^we-Wna-ss 1 o-\kui (one of the early race). 


90 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8412) Ine +i u." ( ) Ha IS^a-Opua Ine jkuiten, au ha Ine 

I la, le jnwa. 

Ha ll^a-Opua ha Ine llnau, jgaiie, ha Ine Ikam lla ha 
llka^ai ; ha hk Ine ttki, ssa, ssa, ssa, ssa, ha Ine jkhe 
(8413) ssa. He, ha ha ( ) Ine kui: " jkk-gjnuih-tara wwe! 
Ink Ikhwa kkwaken." He ha llka^ai ha Ine ssiiken 
Ihin jnwa, ha ha Ine jku^e jkhe ssa ha ll^a-Opua, ha 
Ine Ikei ha H^a-Opua. Ha Sl^a-Opua ha Ine llkoo, a 
(8414) ha jkhwa. Ha ll^a-Opua ( ) ha ka : " H kan Iku a." 
He tiken e, ha hk Ink ka, ha Ikkkka La ll^a-Opua : 
U A kok ^auki kkettau Ine sse sse n; ta, n yahki 
(8415) kkkttau Ine tail n lerina." He, ha Sl^a-Opua ( ) hk 
Ine Ikiiiten, l. 

He, hi Ine llaii jho jku,* !. Hin Ine llgwi'ten. jk'e 
ta tukaken Ine llgwiten hi hi, an Ikakaken e Ine 
jkoeten, au jk'e ta tukaken e Ine jgabba, au jk'e ta 
(8416) Ikakaken ( ) e Ine jkoeta hi. Hk tiken e, jgaue-li ha 
Ine jgahba, jkhe lla ha jkouki-Opua, hah Ine llkei-llkho 
a jkouki-Opua. Hk tiken e, ha jkouki-Opua hk Ine 
(8417) kui, jkammi-ssi. Hah ha Ine ( ) kui : " Ine Ikouki ! 
u (houken-ggu, jgwai Ik-tkra-ggu j* Ine sse jkketa hu." 

Hk tiken e, jgaiik-li ha Iku-g Ine jku^e jkhe lla 


(84 1 5 ? ) 
(8417 ? ) 


* Hi ||kuan ka sin |ku +kakken, ti e, hi uken-ggu wa ha |ne jho 
jku, llgwi'ten ; hi xoaken-ggu wa |ne e jkoeten, jkoeta tuken ; tuka 
Ine jgabba. 

f Hah Iku ka jgwai le-tara, au j^uain ; j^uain yah a, ha ka 
jgwai le-tara a. 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN's-HEART STAR. 


91 


younger sister returned home, while she went into 
the reeds. 

Her younger sister, on the morrow, she went 
to her elder sister ; she walked, coming, coming, 
coming, coming, she stood. And she ( ) exclaimed : (8413) 
" 0 \k6-g\nidh-tara ! let the child suck." And her 
elder sister sprang out of the reeds, she ran up to her 
younger sister, she caught hold of her younger sister. 

Her younger sister, springing aside, gave her the 
child. Her younger sister ( ) said: "I am here !" (8414) 
Therefore, she (the elder sister) spoke, she said to her 
younger sister: u Thou must not continue to come 
to me ; for, I do not any longer feel that I know." 

And her younger sister ( ) returned home. (8415) 

And they went to make a I ku # there (at the house). 

They played. The men played with them, while the 
women were those who clapped their hands, while 
the men were those who nodded their heads, while 
the women ( ) were those who clapped their hands (8416) 
for them. Then, the Dawn's-Heart, nodding his 
head, went up to his younger sister-in-law, he laid 
his hand on his younger sister-in-law (on her 
shoulder). Then his younger sister-in-law swerved 
aside. She ( ) exclaimed: " Leave me alone! your (8417) 
wives, the old she-hyenas,f may clap their hands 
for you." 

Then the Dawn's-Heart ran to the hyena ; he took 


* This is a dance or game of the Bushmen, which \han^tkass > o (8415 J ) 
has not himself seen, but has heard of from Tuai-an and jFicammi, 
two of TsatsVs wives. They used to say that their fathers made 
a j hi (and) played. Their mothers were those who clapped their 
hands, clapped their hands for the men ; the men nodded their 
heads. 

f She said I givai 1 %-tdra from anger; anger was that on account (8417 ? ) 
of which she said j gwai \e-tdra. 


92 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8418) jgwai ; kan Iku -g !ne tte ssa 4kdn, # han Iku-g Ine ( ) 
liken, ti e, jgwai ssih ss'd f hi, au jgwaln Iku-g Ine 
ssuken Ikin, han Iku-g Ine jk'oa, Ilka llkho, au if, au 

f 

han ssuken Ikih lla ; au jkaujkammih Iku-g Ine ss'o, 
(8419) au ti e, ha ( ) ssin ddoa ss'o hi, he ha ssih ddda 
jkotta hi. Han Iku-g Ine ssuken Ihin lla, au hih 
Iku-g Ine ss'o. 

He jgaue-li ha Iku Ine lOke ka jkoiiki-Opua, tss'ara 
(8420) Inn a, ha jkouki-Opua yauki ddoa ssih Ine ( ) arroko 
4-kakka ha a ; han ddda j^dya lid ha, au jgwai ; u hd 
ti hi yau e, ha ddda ll^koen, ti e, Saiti ddda tss'etss'd 
ssih ha, han yauki ddda jkkejkhe ssih ya. Hah ddoa 
(8421) tss'etss'd ssih ( ) ha; laitiken ssih jkhejkhe ssih ha. 
jkui a l^ara, hah ddda Iku a a, ha ddda tss'etss'd 
ssih ha 4 He, hah M Ind ta, ha jkouki-Opua ddda 
(8422) sse antau Iki jkhe jho ha, au ti e laiti ss'd ( ) ddda 
llna hi. Ha Ikouki-Opuaken hd ka : " A llkuan sse 
Ikh, ti sse 4ka ; § ta, a ss'd ka, lha kkettau llkhda 
ti e, ka ssin Ikue, l. I sse lie Ska, au llk'oih ya Ska," 

(8417') * llkuan jk'6a ||kho lla. 

(8418') t Ha, llkuan llkhoe-ss'o ||nein, au jhammi. He tiken e, ha Ine 
|ki|ki Ihin u'i jkaujkammi au ha llxuollxuorreten, au hah ka, ha 
ssih Iku-g Ine kwe ss'o; au hah tatti, ha |ku Ine xii u'i tchueh. 
Ha IJkuah llki, ti e, jk'e Iku-g |ne jho jku, he tiken e, ha yauki |ne 
lla jku, l, au hah tatti, ha ddoa |ku Ikammaihya jko-gjnuin-tara 
ka tchueh. 

(8421') t Au hah tatti, ha ssih lhahss'o jgwai, au hah tatti, ha +i, ti 
e jko-gjnuin-tara e. 

(8422') § Au han tatti, ||ga Iku e. 


93 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN ? S-HE ART STAR. 

aim (with his assegai),* * * § he ( ) pierced the place (8418) 
where the hyena had been sitting,' f while the hyena 
sprang out, she trod, burning herself in the fire, while 
she sprang away; while the ornaments remained at 
the place where she ( ) had been sitting, and where (8419) 
she had been wearing them. She sprang away, while 
they remained. 

And the DawnVHeart scolded his younger sister- 
in-law, why was it that his younger sister-in-law had 
not ( ) quickly told him about it; she had concealed (8420) 
from him about the hyena ; as if this was not why he 
had seen that the woman had been sitting with her 
back towards him, she had not been sitting with 
her face towards him. She had been sitting with 
her back towards ( ) him; the ( i.e . his) wife had (8421) 
been sitting with her face towards him. A different 
person, she must be the one who was here, she had 
sat with her back towards him.J And he said that 
his younger sister-in-law should quickly explain to 
him about the place where the (his) wife seemed 
( ) to be. His younger sister-in-law said: "Thou (8422) 
shalt wait, that the place may become light § ; for, 
thou dost seem to think that (thy) wife is still like 
that which she used to be. We will go to (thy) 
wife, when the sun has come out." 

* (He) brought himself to a stand (in order to take aim). (8417 J ) 

t She sat in the house, being afraid. Therefore, she took off (841 8') 
the bracelets from her wrists, while she desired that she might sit 
quietly; while she felt that she left the things. She suspected 
that the people were making a }M (on her account), therefore she 
did not go to the IM, while she felt that she had been wearing 
\Jc6-g\nuin-tdrd' s things. 

% Because he had married the hyena, because he thought that it (8421 J ) 
was \k6-g\nuin-tdra. 

§ Because it was night. (8422 ' ) 


94 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 8423 ) Hd tiken e, ( ) ha ha Ine llnau jgaue, hah hd Ine 
ku'i, ha jkouki-Opua ddoa sse arrdko a hi ttdi. Hd 
tiken e, ha jkouki-Opua ha Ine kill : U I ddda sse 
( 8424 ) ssuai Ikam burri, i sse Iki lie burn au I ha." ( ) Hd 
taken e, hi ha Ine ssuai Ikam biirri, i. Hi Ine ssuai 
ti lla burri. ssudi ti lla biirri; hi Ine lid Ikhe lla 

u t o d n t . 

biirri au Inwa. He, hi Ine ssuai Iho burri, i .* 

( 8425 ) l^e-ddd-ydeten hd Ine Ibke ha ( ) llka^ai lha, hah 
ha Ine kiii, ha llka^ai lha sse llnim jkhe ha tssl; 
jk'e kiiiten koa Ine jkhd, llniih ta ha llka^ai lha tssi, 
au ha Ine a, Ik'a Ikhe burri. Hd taken e, ha ha Ine 
( 8426 ) ( ) kii'i : u jkd-gjnuin-tara we ! Ina jkhwa kkwaken." 

He tiken e, ha llka^ai hd Iku-g Ine ssiiken Ihin jnwa, 
hah Iku-g Ine Ikuei Iki, hah Ikii^e ssa. Hah ha 
( 8427 ) Ine llnau, hah jkii^eya ha ll^a-Opua, ( ) hah Ine Ini 
biirri, hah Ine Ilkhou llkua Ikhe lla, au biirri. Hah 

n 7 o d • y n 

hd Ine Ikei biirri. Igaue-li Ine Ikei laiti, au laitiken 

3 II • / O 

\ fW 9 p % f 

Ikei burri ; au ha jkouki-Opua, l^d-ddd-^deten ll^amki 
( 8428 ) lkei( ) laiti. Jk'e ta kiigen Iku-g Ine llkoaken Ikei ha. 
Ik'e kiiitaken Ike ikei biirri; hih illkaueten biirri, hiii 
Iku Ikoulkoii Iki Ihin lla, hih t^umm jkd-gjnuin-tara 
( 8429 ) ( ) au lla. Hih jkann +nohu Ikiiken.f He tiken e, 
ha ha Ine llnau, hah Ine ssuen, hah hd Ine kiii : u U koa 
sse turutiiru jkaun jho Ikiiken au n jnujnuhtu lelemmi; 

/ 

* Hi llku|n Ika, burri sse Ikhe. 
f Ikukeu e ha ssin ddi Iku-gjnuih, i. 


( 8424 ') 

( 8429 ') 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN's-HEART STAR. 


95 


Therefore, ( ) on the morrow, he said that his (8423) 
younger sister-in-law must quickly allow them to go. 

Then his younger sister-in-law said: "We ought to 
drive, taking goats, that we may take goats to (thy) 
wife." ( ) Therefore, they drove, taking goats. They (8424) 
drove along goats, drove along goats ; they took the 
goats to the reeds. And they drove the goats to 
a stand.* 

\ye-dde-y6e f directed her ( ) elder sister's husband, (8425) 
she said that her elder sister's husband should stand 
behind her back, the other people must stand behind 
her elder sister's husband's back, while she must 
be the one to stand beside the goats. Then she 
( ) exclaimed : " 0 \k6-g\nuin-tara ! let the child (8426) 
suck." 

Then her elder sister sprang out of the reeds ; she, 
in this manner, she running came. She, when she 
had run to her younger sister, ( ) she perceived the (8427) 
goats, she turned aside to the goats. She caught 
hold of a goat. The Dawn's-Heart caught hold of 
(his) wife, while the wife caught hold of the goat; 
while his younger sister-in-law, \%e-dde-y6e) also took 
hold of ( ) the wife. All the people altogether caught (8428) 
hold of her. Other people were catching hold of the 
goats; they cut the goats open, they took out the 
contents of the stomach, they anointed \fco-g\min-tdra 
( ) with the contents of the stomachs. They, taking (8429) 
hold, rubbed off the hair J (from her skin). Therefore, 
when she sat down, she said : u Ye must, pulling, 
leave the hair on the tips of my ears ; for, in that 


* They left off (driving), in order that the goats might stand still. (8424') 
t \\e is a young girl. What the whole of I xe-dde~y6e' s name 
means, the narrator does not know. 


X The hair, with which she had become a lynx. 


(8429') 


96 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8430) td, hi e ( ) n ssa tui, I; ta, n >huki tan n ssa tui." 
He tiken e, tuiken M Ine turuturu jk'auii jho Ikiiken 
au ha jnujnuntu lelemmi, he Ikiiken, hin e ka Ine 
(8431) i u,* a jnujnuntu lelemmi, ( ) jkaujkaun jkh£ hi. 

H£ tiken e, jgaue-li ha ka ssih Iku llnau, ha Ine 
jkuiten ssa,t l* a hd Iku-g Ine llkdn leya ? ha ha llk^h 
ssi ttdiya, an jguara, au ha Ine jkuiten ssa. Ha 
(8432) tsa^aita M Iku-g ( ) Ine jgattenjgktten, au ha ttai 
ssa ; hi Iku-g Ine llkh<5a litenliten. Ik'e ha Iku Ine 
jhammiya ki ssa ha, au ha tsa fatten; au hin ta ti e, 
ha tsa^aita M Iku-g Ine llkhda litenliten, au M Ine 
ttai ssa. K<5ro-ggu ha Iku Ine jhammiya, ki ssa ha, 
au ha Ikuiten ssa. 

• o 


In order to throw more light upon that portion 
of the story of \k6-g\nuih-tara which is contained 
in the version here given, the following extract is 
supplied from page 11 of Hr. Bleek's u Second Beport 
concerning Bushman Besearches ", printed at Cape 
Town, in 1875 : — 

" The " Dawn's-Heart " (the star Jupiter) has a 
daughter, who is identified with some neighbouring 
star preceding Jupiter (at the time when we asked, it 
was Begulus or Alpha Leonis). Her name is the 
u Hawn's-Heart-child," and her relation to her father 
is somewhat mysterious. He calls her " my heart," 
he swallows her, then walks alone as the only 


(8430') 

(8431') 


* Han |ne ta, ha yahki ssa tui*, an Ikuken ka ku wa jkojkoa a 
jnujnuhtu. He tiken e, gwai sse kwe Ikuken kuiten a jnujnuhtu. 

f Hah Ikweiten Iku Ine iya, an jgwai-ggn e ddi jywaihya ha 
|I, hin l^kuwa laiti. 


THE WIFE OF THE DAWN'S-HEART STAR. 


97 


manner ( ) I shall come to hear; for, I do not feel (8430) 
as if I should hear." * * Therefore, the man (her 
husband), pulling off, left the hair on the tips of 
her ears, that hair which is thus f on the tips of the 
ears, ( ) standing on the top of them. (8431) 

Therefore, the Dawn's-Heart used, when he was 
returning home, J to put an arrow on the bow, he 
walked, sticking the end of his assegai into the 
ground, as he returning came. His eyes were ( ) (8432) 
large, as he came walking along ; they resembled fires. 

The people were afraid of him as he came, on account 
of his eyes; while they felt that his eyes resembled 
fires, as he came walking along. The jackals were 
afraid of him, as he returning came. 


Dawn's -Heart Star, and, when she is grown up, 
he spits her out again. She then herself becomes 
another (female) Dawn's-Heart, and spits out another 
Dawn's-IIeart-child, which follows the male and 
female Dawn's-Heart. The mother of the latter, 
the first-mentioned Dawn's- Heart's wife, was the 
Lynx, who was then a beautiful woman, with a 
younger sister who carried her digging-stick after 
her. The Dawn's-Heart hid his child under the 
leaves of an edible root (\Missi), where he thought 
that his wife would come and find it. Other animals 
and birds arrived first, and each proposed herself 
to the D awn ' s -He art - ch ild as its mother; but they 


* She said that she should not hear, if all the hair were off (8430 5 ) 
her ears. Therefore, her husband should leave the other hair on 
her ears. 

f Holding up two fingers. 

X He always (henceforth) did thus, because the hyenas had made (8431 ') 
his heart angry, they had poisoned (his) wife. 


H 


98 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


were mocked at by the child, until at last it 
recognized its own mother. Among the insulted 
animals were the Jackal and the Hyena, who, to 
revenge themselves, bewitched the mother (Lynx) 
with some poisoned " Bushman rice " (so-called " ants' 
eggs"), by which means she was transformed into 
a lioness. In the dark, the Hyena tried to take her 
(the Lynx's) place in the hut, on the return of the 
Dawn's-XIeart ; but the imposture w r as made known 
to him by his sister-in-law. The Dawn's-Heart tried 
to stab the Hyena with his assegai, but missed her. 
She fled, putting her foot into the fire, and burning 
it severely. The bewitched wife was enticed out 
of the reeds by her younger sister, and then caught 
by her brothers, who pulled off the lion skin, so that 
she became a fair woman again. But, in consequence 
of having been bewitched by " Bushman rice," she 
could no longer eat that, and was changed into a lynx 
who ate meat. — This myth, which contains many 
minor, and some beautiful incidents, is partly given 
in the form of a narrative, and partly in discourses 
addressed by the Dawn's-Heart to his daughter, as 
well as in speeches made by the Hyena and her 
parents, after her flight home." 







BUSHMAN GROUP. 
Photographed at Salt River in 1884. 




ft' ¦ I • 




II I'v. Oilier Myths , 


100 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ilia.— 34. 

L. 

THE SON OF THE WIND. 

(Related, in April , 1878, ly Ihan+kass'o, who heard it from his 
mother , l^abbi-an.) 

(6687) Ikhwe tan M 6a Iku +g6uwa . He, ha Ine llgebbita # 
Ina-ka-ti. Hah ha Ine kui : u Ina-ka-ti wwe ! ttau 

• D 3 • D 

(6688) ho ! " He jna-ka-ti ( ) ha Ine kui : a I ken wwe ! 
ttau ho ! " au Ina-ka-tiken tatti, ha )"auki +en-na ha 
Ike. Hd ti hih e, Ina-ka-ti ta : " Ikeh wwe! ttau 
(6689) ho ! " II A a jkhwe, hah a ka : " jna-ka-ti ( ) wwe ! 
ttau ho ! 

t ' ' 

Ed tiken e, jna-ka-ti ha Ine llah ttuttu ha ^da au 
Ikukko Ike. Hah hd Ine kui: u Itaii wwe I Ine dd<5a 

• D d 

jkwiya ke, Ikeh a ke, ha Ike; ta, Ikdh ddda jkwi h 
(6690) Ike; ( ) h ^auki ddda jkwi Iken Ike; h ssih kwan Ine 
Jkwi Ikdh Ike, au ka llgebbita ha. Ta, h ^auki ddda 
jkwi Ikdh Ike; n ssih kwan Ine jkwi ha Ike, au ka-g 
(6G91) Ine llgebbita ha.'- ( ) Hd ti hih e, ha ^6a ha Ine kui : 


(6687 ? ) * llkuan llgebbita ha au llkuam. N llkuan £ 1 , ti e, llkuarri 

llkuan ssho oa e; ta, llkuarri ||kuah e, ssi-g Ine ||gebbiten-i, i, au 
(6688 ? ) ssl 'ten |ne ta, ssi ssih l^a ll^koen f, ( ) o jkui a kd |£a ttwai-i 
o jk'e kuiten. He tiken e, ssi ta llgebbiten-i, au llkuarri. 

Ilkuarriten Iku ||na ssi ta !%6e. Hin Iku lhauwa, Iku jkhe ta. 
He liken e, j^o hi hi. Ssiten yauki hi hi ; ta, Jgauoken Ike |ku e. 


THE SON OF THE WIND. 


101 


Ilia.— 34. 

L. 

THE SOH OF THE WIND. 

The (son of the) "Wind was formerly still. And (6687) 
he rolled # (a ball) to \m-ka~ti. He exclaimed : 

"0 \nq-ka-ti ! There it goes!" And \na-ka-ti ( ) (6688) 
exclaimed: "0 comrade! There it goes!" because 
j nq-ka-ti felt that he did not know his (the other 
one's) name. Therefore, \ nq-ka-ti said : u 0 comrade ! 

There it goes ! " He who was the wind, he was the 
one who said: " 0 \nq-ka-ti ! ( ) There it goes ! " (6689) 

Therefore, \nq-ka-ti\ went to question his mother 
about the other one's name. He exclaimed : " 0 our 


mother ! Utter for me comrade who is yonder, his 
name ; for, comrade utters my name ; ( ) I do not (6690) 
utter comrade's name. I would also utter comrade's 
name, when I am rolling (the ball) to him. For, 

I do not utter comrade's name ; I would also utter his 
name, when I roll (the ball) to him." ( ) Therefore, (6691) 


* Rolled (a ball of) It kuarri to him. I think that it must have (6687') 
been II kuarri ; for, Wkuarri is that with which we are rolling 
(a ball), when we wish to aim, seeing ourselves, ( ) whether (6688') 
a man aims better than the other people. Therefore, we are 
rolling (a ball) with II kuarri. 

Wkuarri is found in our country. They stand in numbers around. 

Therefore, the porcupine eats them. We do not eat them ; for they 
are poison. 

t The name j nq-ka-ti I han^kass'd was unable to explain. He (6689') 
thinks that it must have been given by the parents, as \na-ka-tl 
was still a child. He further stated that the word \na is the name 
of an insect which resembles the locust. It is large, and also 
resembles the Acridium ruficorne. It is red. It affects the eyes of 
the Bushmen. Their eyes become closed and they writhe with 
pain on account of the burning caused by this insect. 


102 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


u N kail >*auki sse jkwiya hk Ike IkS. Ta, a Iku sse 
*kam©pua; 6a sse +karh©pua ll^ouwa hi llneih,* 6a 

(6692) sse +kam0pua ( ) ll^ou llwei llnein. He e, n Ine 
Ikwiya ha Ike Ikg, i. He e, a ssk Ine llnau, au ka 
Ikwiya ha a Ike Ike, a koa ssa Ine llnau, au h a jkwiya 

(6693) ha a Ike Ike, a koa ( ) ssah llnau, au ka Ikwiya ha a 
Ike Ike, a koa ssan Iku ku, juhurinih yii jkhe, a koa 
Iku Iku^e llnein ; a sse Iku ssa le llnein ; au a t&tti e, 

(6694) jkhwe ( ) Iku ssan ttchu ki ttfi a." 

/ 

H6 ti hin e, jkhwa ha Iku-g Ine lla, hin Iku-g Ine 
llan llgebbita llneiilnl, I. H6 tiken e, ha ha Ine ll^a, 

(6695) han lla ha ^6a, hah ( ) Ine ll^a, hah Ine llah ttuttu 
ha ^6a, au jkukko Ike. 

He ha v6a ha Ine kui : " l6rriten- Ikuan- Ikuan ke; 
jgau-jgaubu-ti ki e, hah e l6mten-jkuah-jkuah ; hah 

r pt 

(6696) ( ) e jgau-jgaubu-ti; hah e l6rriten-!kuah"!kuan. ?? 

He tiken e, Ina-ka-ti ha Ine lla, l. Hah ha Ine Iku llah 

o 3 • 3 3 3 3 

(6697) llgebbita llneillni, au hah yauki jkwi jkukko ( ) Ike, au 
hah thtti e, ha ^6a a ssih Ikueida ha. Hah ka : " A 
koa yauki ssah lhammaki, Ikwi Ike Ike. A koa ssa 

(6698) lhamma Iku Igoiiwa ; Ik6 koa Iku a ( ) Ikwi Iki, a Ike. 
He tiken e, a ssah llnau, au a Ikwiva Ike Ike, a koa 
ssan Iku-g Ine Iku^e llnein ; au a tatti e, jkhwe Iku 
ssah ttchu ki tthi a." 

3 D 

(6699) H6 tiken ( ) e, jnk-ka-ti ha Ine lla, i ; hin Ine Iku 
llah llgebbita llneiilnl, au jkukkoken Iku a Jkwiya Ike. 

(669H) * Hi llkuan Iki llneih, han llnau, ti e, llnein ^ahni. Hi llkuah 

ss'o oa Iki ||ka ka llnein. 


THE SON OF THE WIND. 


103 


his mother exclaimed: "I will not utter to thee 
comrade's name. For, thou shalt wait; that father 
may first shelter for us the hut ; * that father may 
first ( ) strongly shelter the hut.*j* And then I will (6692) 
utter for thee comrade's name. And thou shalt, 
when I have uttered for thee comrade's name, thou 
must, when I am the one who has uttered for thee 
comrade's name, thou must, ( ) when I have uttered (6693) 
for thee comrade's name, thou must scamper away, 
thou must run home, that thou mayest come into 
the hut, whilst thou dost feel that the wind ( ) would (6694) 
blow thee away." 

Therefore, the child went ; they (the two children) 
went to roll (the ball) there. Therefore, he (l na-ka-ti) 
again, he went to his mother, he ( ) again, he went to (6695) 
question his mother about the other one's name. 

And his mother exclaimed: " \erriten-\kuan-\kmn it 
is ; \gqu-\gqubu-ti it is. He is \ernten-\kmn-\kuah ; he 
( ) is \gm-\gdubu-ti , he is \erriten-\kuan-\kuan ." (6696) 

Therefore, j nq-ka-ti went on account of it. He 
went to roll (the ball) there, while he did not utter 
the other one's ( ) name, while he felt that his (6697) 
mother was the one who had thus spoken to him. 

She said: u Thou must not, at first, utter comrade's 
name. Thou must, at first, be silent, even if comrade 
be the one who ( ) is uttering thy name. Therefore, (6698) 
thou shalt, when thou hast uttered comrade's name, 
thou must run home, while thou dost feel that the 
wind would blow thee away." 

Therefore, ( ) J na-ka-ti went on account of it; (6699) 
they went to roll (the ball) there, while the other was 

* They had a hut . . . the hut was small. They probably had (6691 ') 
a mat hut. 

f That is, make a strong screen of bushes for the mat hut. 


101 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


An hah tatti e, ha ka, ha da sse 4kaxhOpua ll^ou llgwi 
(6700) au llneih. He, ( ) ha Ine ll^koeu, ti e, ha da Ine 
ssuen, hd e, ha Ine jhou, hah Ine jkwl jkukko Ike, au 

t / 

ha Ine llwkoen, ti e, ha da Ine ll^ou llgwiya au llnem. 

(6701) He tiken e, ha ha llnau, ha Ine ( ) ll^kden, ti e, 

ha da Ine ll^ou llgwi au llnein, hin e, ha ha Ine kui : 

u Ttau ho ! Idmten-lkuah-jkuaii wwe ! ttau h5 ! jgau- 

!gaubu-ti wwe ! ttau ho ! " He, ha ha Iku-g Ine kiii, 

(6702) juhunnm ( ) u jkhe, han Iku-g Ine jku^e llnein; au 

Ikukkoken ha Ine tt'uara Ha, he Ikiikko ha Ine ttktten 

(6703) Jk'ui, l. Hah ha Ine tnaissi ll^enll^eh juhita ( ) jkou. 

9 / f ## £ r 
Hd ti hin e, |k ? e ta ilneillnei, ha Iku-g Ine luanna, 

[khwdten ha Iku-g Ine ttchu l^wai, hi ta Ohdken, 

hin kda llndillnei, au jk'dten ha yauki Ine louwi, au 

(6704) ( ) jk'au. Hd tiken e, ha ^da ha Ine Ihin ssa au 

9 ff 

llnem ; # ha ^daken ha Ine ssah, Ikann hhd ha ; ha 
ydaken ha Ine Ikann Ikw'ai Ihd ha. He, ha ha Ine 

(6705) dd waii ten, ha kkwe ttih. ( ) Ha ^daken ha Ine 

Ikann Ikw'ai Ihd ha. Hd tiken e, ikhwe ha Ine kui, 
ss'up, i ; au Ikhwe ssih jhamm llnau ha ta, jk'auh jk'ui. 
(6706) Hd ti hin e, ssi e l^aih-ka-jk'e, ssi ( ) ta-g Ind ta: 
u jkhwe llkuah ta ta ; ta, ha yauki ttamOpua ttchui. 

(6704') * Ha ka llnein yah |ku jkhe, au han tatti hi-hi e jkhwe. 


THE SON OF THE WIND. 


105 


the one who uttered his (j na-ka-tPs) name. While he 
( \nq-ka-ti ) felt that he wished that his father should 
first finish making the shelter for the hut. And 
(when) ( ) he saw that his father sat down, then he (6700) 
would, afterwards, utter the other one's name, when 
he beheld that his father had finished sheltering 
the hut. 

Therefore, when he ( ) beheld that his father had (6701) 
finished sheltering the hut, then he exclaimed : 

" There it goes ! 0 I erritenAhuafiAkuaii ! There it 
goes ! 0 \gm-\gmbu-ti ! There it goes ! " And he 

scampered ( ) away, he ran home; while the other (6702) 
one began to lean over, and the other one fell down. 

He lay kicking violently upon ( ) the vlei.* There- (6703) 
fore, the people's huts vanished away, the wind blew, 
breaking their (sheltering) bushes, together with the 
huts, while the people could not see for ( ) the dust. (6704) 
Therefore, his (the wind's) mother came out of the 
hut *)* ( i.e . of the wind's hut) ; his mother came, 
grasping (him), to raise him up ; his mother, grasping 
(him), set him on his feet. And he was unwilling, 

(and) wanted to lie still. ( ) His mother, taking (6705) 
hold (of him), set him on his feet. Therefore, the 
wind became still ; while the wind had, at first, while 
he lay, caused the dust to rise. 

Therefore, we who are Bushmen, we ( ) are wont (6706) 
to say : u The wind seems to be lying down, for, 
it does not gently blow (i.e. it blows strongly). For, 
when it stands (upright), then it is still, when it 
stands ; for, it seems to be lying down, when it 

* A depression in the ground, sometimes dry, sometimes covered 
with coarse grass and rushes, and sometimes filled with water. 

f Her hut' remained standing, while it felt that they themselves (6704') 
were wind. 


106 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ta, ha ka llnau, ha Skhe, hin e, ha ka llkowa, I, au 

9 mi \ 

ha jkhe; ta, ha ta ta, au ha Ikueita. Ha Inuan a 

_ _ ' • / . f 
(6707) Iwke, au ha ta; ta, ( ) ha Inuan kwah i^ke. N ssih 

ta, ha ttchu-ttchu ttenya hi, i ssan ttai ; i ssan llkaiten 

ti Ike kie, i ssan ll^koen, Iwka Ike, llnuh jkhd. Ta, 

i ddda ssih Ikhwdten Iki wai au ti e a. Hd tiken 

D • o o o 

(6708) ( ) e, wai ddda Ike lla I^ka Ike, llnuh jkhe. Ta, i 
Tauki ddda ttamOpua l^aa wdi au ti d; ta, i ddda 
l^a ki leya llkoin, au wai, au ti e a.' 7 


jKHWE. 

(6709) jkhwdten* hd da e jkui. Hah Iku-g Sne ddi 
llgerriten-ti.f He, ha Iku-g Ine ll^oui, au hah Taiiki 
(6710) Ine dda, ti e, ha ha da ttai ; ta, ha Iku-g ( ) Ine 
ll^oui, he, ha Iku-g Ine llna jkou. He tiken e, ha 
Iku-g Ine Il^oui. Hah ha da e jkui. He tiken e, 
ha ha da llgebbiten-i ; hah llkuan l^ai; au han tatti 
(6711) e, hd e jkui. Hah Iku-g Ine ( ) ddi l!gdrriten-ti ; he 
e, ha Iku-g Ine IS^oui, he ha Iku-g Ine Henna jkou ka 
jku. He, ha Iku-g Ine Ihihlhin hi, hah Iku-g Ine 
(6712) ll^duwa tin, he ( ) ha Ine jkuiten, i. He, ha Ine ssa, 
Opuoih hi; he, ha Ine jkagen kau |ko Ihih hi; ha Ine 


(6709') 

(6695') 


* jkhwe-Opua llkuan tchui, au jkhwe-©puaken tatti e, La 
uken-ggu llkuan ss'o oa tchui; ta, hi llkuan |kii e jkhwe. He 
tiken e, hi llkuan tchui. Ta, jk'e e yauki ^kakka ke jkhwe 
£oaken-ggu; ta, hi |ku i +kakka ke |khwe-©pua. 

f jkhwe llkuan ha 6a e jkui ; hah |ku-g Ine ddi llgerriten-ti* 
He tiken e, ha |ku-g |ne jxauken |eta j^i. Ha ttu e, ssiten |ne 
ta j%i 8. 


THE WIND. 


107 


does in this manner. Its knee is that which makes 
a noise, when it lies down ; for ( ) its knee does (6707) 
sound. I had wished that it might gently blow 
for us, that we might go out, that we might ascend 
the place yonder, that we might behold the river 
bed yonder standing behind (the hill). For, we 
have driven away the springbok from this place. 
Therefore ( ), the springbok have gone to yonder (6708) 
(dry) river bed standing behind (the hill). For, 
we have not a little shot the springbok at this place ; 
for, we have shot, letting the sun set,* at the spring- 
bok at this place." 


The Wind. 


The Wind t (i-e- the Wind's son) was formerly (6709) 
a man. He became a bird. $ And he was flying, 
while he no longer walked, as he used to do ; for, 
he ( ) was flying, and he dwelt in the mountain (6710) 
(that is, in a mountain hole). Therefore, he was 
flying. He was formerly a man. Therefore, he 
was formerly rolling (a ball) ; he was shooting ; 
while he felt that he was a person. He ( ) became (6711) 
a bird ; and he was flying, and he dwelt in a 
mountain's hole. And he was coming out of it, he 
flew about, and ( ) he returned to it. And he came (6712) 
to sleep in it ; and, he early awaking goes out of it ; 


* Literally, 
f The younj 


having put in the sun.' 


( 6708 ') 

wind blew, while the young wind felt that its ?6709M 
fathers seemed formerly to have blown ; for, they were the wind. ' ' 

Therefore, they blew. For the people did not tell me about 
the wind's parents ; for, they merely talked to me about the 
young wind. 

J The Wind was formerly a person ; he became a bird. Therefore, ("6695') 
he is tied up in stuff. His skin is that which we call stuff. 


108 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


li^ou tt|i, li^a, ha li^ou ttai. He, ha ine II^jL ha 

(6713) jkuiten, au han tatti ( ) e, ha llkuan lOkua, He ha 
Ine ha, ttin, ttin, ttin, ttin, ha Ine ll^a, ha jkuiten. 
He, ha Ine ll^a, ha ssa Opnoih hi. 

Added by lhah+kass'o. 

1 1 go o-ka-i kui llkuan Iku a, 6a +kakka ke jkhwe, au 

( 6714 ) han Iku I llna, ha ( ) ka Ihu, Jacob Kotz6.* Hah 
llkuan ka j^oe a, ha oa Ina jkhwe a, h& e Haarfontein ; f 
au l^amka ha I ken Ine e kkoa^a ; au ha Ike e, Ihu 
e-g Ine jkwl hi, hin Ine e Haarfontein. 

( 6715 ) llg(5o-ka-jkui ( ) Ine Ini jkhwe, au Haarfontein ta 
Ikon. He tiken e, ha M Ine !k'aiten-i Ikhwe, au han 
ka jkuerrejkuerre e. He jkhwe ha Iku-g Ine jkhwi, !. 

( 6716 ) He tiken e, jkhwe ha ( ) ^auki Ine ttamOpua tchui; 
jkhweten Iku-g Ine Ikam jk'au, au hah ha ka, jk'aiten- 
a Ikhwe. Ikhw6ten Iku-g Ine Ikaih Ik'au, au Ikhweten 

• • o O o*/* o 

( 6717 ) ha ka, ll^ou u. jkhweten llaii le jkou ka jku, ( ) 
he jkhwe ha Iku-g Ine jkhwi ; jkhweten ^auki Ine 
ttamOpua tchui. 

o -L o 

He, ha Iku-g Ine jhammi Ikam Sla SSnein; hah Iku-g 

(6714 j ) * J ac °b Kotzeten e jkuara. Hah oa ||na " Harfcus Kloof". 

f Haarfontein ta jkauokaken e, ha Ina jkhwe, l. 


THE WIND. 


109 


he flies away, again, he flies away. And he again 
returns, while he feels ( ) that he has sought food. (6713) 
And he eats, about, about, about, about, he again 
returns. And he, again, comes to sleep (in) it. 

[That this curious belief, that the wind now wears 
the form of a bird, was even lately in active existence 
among the Bushmen, the following will suffice to 
show: — ] 

Smoke's Man* * * § was the one who formerly spoke 
to me about the wind, when he was still living 
with his ( ) master, Jacob Kotze.f He said that (6714) 
the place at which he had seen the wind was 
Haarfontein ; J while its Bushman name is ^Jcodj^d ; 
while its name (by) which the Europeans call it, is 
Haarfontein. 

Smoke's Man ( ) espied the wind at Haarfontein's (6715) 
mountain. Therefore, he was throwing a stone at 
the wind, while he believed (it) to be a \hierre\lcuerre 
(a certain bird). And the wind burst on account 
of it. Therefore, the wind did ( ) not blow gently ; (6716) 
the wind raised the dust, because he had thrown 
a stone at the wind. The wind raised the dust, 
while the wind flew away. The wind went into 
a mountain's hole, ( ) and the wind burst; the wind (6717) 
did not gently blow. 

And he (Smoke's Man), being afraid, went home; 
he went to sit under the hut's bushes, § while he 


* Wgoo-Tca-lkui, or " Witbooi Tooren", was the son of II Tchabbo 
(" Oud Jantje Tooren ") and his wife, \ kuabba-ah (" Oude Lies "). 
I hah^rkass'd used to teach " Witbooi" how to hunt springbok; 
being already grown up when " Witbooi " was still a child. 

f Jacob Kotze is a Bastaard. He used to live at " Hartus Kloof ". 

t Haarfontein's mountains in which he saw the Wind. 

§ i.e. the bushes broken off and used to make a shelter for the 
mat hut. 


(6713') 

(6714') 

(6717) 


110 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(6718) 


(6719) 


(6720) 


(6721) 


(6722) 


(6723) 

(6720') 

(6721') 

(6722') 


Ine llan, Ikuiten ssin llnem, au had yaulu Ine ( ) Ikoi 
au jgei. !g(5ite>i Iku-g Ine 111, jgeiten Ikuiten ssa, au 

9 

kan Iku-g Ine Ikuiten ss'o ; au han tatti, ka ^auki Ine 

Ini Jgei, au jk'au. He tiken e, ka Iku-g Ine ( ) llan 

Ikuiten ss'o ; au kan ka, jk'au sse kku llgwaiya ha a, 

/ 

kan Iku-g Ine Ikuiten ss'o, Ikuiten Iko ss'o llnem ta 

9 9 

ll*6ull*bu, au kan tatti, ka kkun ss'o; au kan tatti, ti 
yko. ( ) He tiken e, ha Ine Ikuiten ss'o, au kan tatti, 
ka kkun ss'o. He, ka Ine jkou, kail Ine ui, kan Ine 
I Ibarra, juki llkko ssa jgei,* au Ikorro, au kan t&tti, 
llkoin Ine le. He tiken ( ) e, ka Iku-g Ine ll^a, kan 
llan Ikuiten ssin, au kan ka, ka ^6a sse Iku a-g Ine Iki 
ssa, ka a ka.f He tiken e, ka Iku ssan Ikuiten ssin, 
au ka juki llkko ssa jgei ( ) au Ikorro. Han Iku-g Ine 
llan, Ikuiten ssin llnem, au ka ^oa a tabba llna,J ban 
Iku a sse-g Ine Iki lla ka ha. He tiken e, ka Iku-g Ine 
Ikuiten ss'o, au kan ka, ka sse Iku tteii. 

H£ tiken ( ) e, ka !ku-g Ine tdbbatabba, ka 
^oaken Iku-g Ine Iki lla ka, a ka. H 6 tiken e, ka 

* jgei llkiian ka Iku juhi jkhe, ti e +ka, jkuara ka jgei. He ti 
hih e, "wachter" ka-g |ne llenn ss'o jgei llx&xu f> korohi |ne l 
jkhe jgei ilxaxu §> au Igeiten l ne !khou jkhe. 
f Ha llkuan |ku 6a e jkhwa. 

J Tabba Una |hQ, jkuara. 


THE WIND. 


Ill 


did not ( ) look to the sheep. The sheep* * * § by (6718) 
themselves, the sheep returning came, while he sat 
under the (hut's) bushes; while he felt that he did 
not perceive the sheep on account of the dust. 
Therefore, he ( ) went to sit under the (hut's) (6719) 
bushes, while he desired that the dust should settle 
for him, he sat under the (hut's) bushes, sat close 
under the hut's sheltering bushes, while he felt that 
he sat warming himself ; while he felt that the 
place was cold. ( ) Therefore, he sat under the (6720) 
(hut's) bushes, while he felt that he sat warming 
himself. And he afterwards arose, he drove bringing 
the sheep f to the kraal, while he felt that the sun 
had set. Therefore ( ) he again, he went to sit (6721) 
under the (hut's) bushes, while he wished that his 
mother should be the one to bring him food.J 
Therefore, he came to sit under the (hut's) bushes, 
when he had brought the sheep ( ) to the kraal. (6722) 
He went to sit under the hut's bushes, while his 
mother who worked there, § she would be the one 
to bring him food. Therefore, he sat under the 
(hut's) bushes, while he desired that he might lie 
down. 

Therefore, ( ) his mother worked (and) worked, (6723) 


* The "Africander" sheep (those with the thick tails) will (6718') 
(I hah^lcass' 6 says) return home alone; while the " Va'rland" sheep 
do not return home alone, but remain where they were left. 

Wod is the name for " Ya'rland " sheep, or " Moff 
\gei is the name for "Africander" sheep, "Kaap Sehaap." 
f The sheep stand upon a bare (unenclosed) place, the Bastaard's (6720') 
sheep. Therefore, the shepherd dwells ( i.e . has his hut) on this 
side of the sheep ; the wagon stands on that (the opposite) side of 
the sheep, while the sheep stand between. 


J He was (at that time) a child. 

§ Worked at the master's, the Bastaard's. 


(6721') 

(6722') 


(6724) 


(8637) 

(8638) 

(8639) 

(8637') 


112 SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

Iku-g Ine ha ho, he M ©pudnni, hah Iku-g Ine tten ; 
au han tatti e, Bastaard Ike ( ) llkuah ) J a'uki jkou 
hkken ha. Si'llaken a da Ikou akken ha, — Jacob 
Kotze lha, — au han t&tti e, l^am-ka-jkui, Ike e; hah 
Ikakken l^arn. Iten ta Iku jkauih ^u u ha ? e ha a hi 
hi. hT 6a llna ha. Silla, Jacob Ivotz6, hih e, h 6a 
Una hi. 


Ilia.— 35. 

L. 

+KAGARA* 

D 

( Dictated , in 1879, by |hah+kass'o, who heard it from his maternal 
grandmother , :£kammi, and , after her death , from his mother, 
l^abbi-an.) 

Hi llkuah ha 6a, +kagdra ha oa I^ahima ha llp^a-Opua, 
hah Ine Hah +m ha ; hah Ine llah Ini ha, au jhaunu ; f 
he, ha ine Iki jkuita, au ha ^oaken-ggii. 

( ) jhaunu Ine juhatten ha jkhwi, hah ha ilnhh 
hoa Ikdo. 

3 

Ikuakaken ha ssuen-ssukh ssa ; Ikuagen e yauki 

OD o D O o 7 odOo 

f f^J 

akken Ilka hi, hih Iku ssuaitau u-iii. 

o / O D 

Ikagdraken M ka: " A koa ttai." ( ) Ha ll^a- 

\ ft 

Opuaken ha ttdi tau llkuah tchuen, gwai ta tchuen. 
Hah h6 ka : u A ko6 ttd'i ; ta llneih yauki Ihih." 

D 033/ • 

* Kwariten llkuah e ; yani- Opuaken |ku 4; han |ne ||ke||keya 
kuru-llkaitau. 

| jkui llkuah e ; jkhodgen e. N +i, ti e, jkhoa ka jgixa ss'o oa 
e. Ha |kl ||ke|ikeya " sloete " a i ta ssual |hih ha, au i Inunu, e 
| u err ly a, he Ixam-ka-jk'e Ine ta, jhaujhaun, i. 


lEj(Gi(RA AND* lHAUNU. 113 

O • 

his mother brought him food. Therefore, he ate 
up this little food, he lay down; while he felt that 
the Bastaards ( ) are not accustomed to give food (6724) 
liberally. " Silla " was the one who gave food 
liberally, Jacob Kotz4's wife, while she felt that 
she was a Bushman (woman) ; she speaks the 
Bushman (language). We used, being satisfied, to 
leave the food which she gave to us. I used to 
live with her (i.e. at her place). Silla (and) Jacob 
Kotze, they are those with whom I used to live. 


Ilia. — 35. 

L. 

*KAGARA* AM) \HAUNU, WHO FOUGHT 
EACH OTHER WITH LIGHTMNG. 


They formerly, agar a formerly went to fetch his (8637) 

younger sister, he went to take her away ; he went 
to take her away from \hdunii j* ; and he took (her) 
back to her parents. 

( ) j haunu gave chase to his brother-in-law, he (8638) 
passed along behind the hill. 

The clouds came, clouds which were unequalled in 
beauty (lit. " clouds which not beautiful like them ") ; 
they vanished away. 

^kagara said : J u Thou must walk on." ( ) His (8639) 
younger sister walked, carrying (a heavy burden of) 


* A bird (it) is; a little bird (it) is; it resembles the Zanius ^8637 
Collaris (a Butcher-Bird). ' 

f A man (it) is ; the Bain (it) is. I think that a Bain's Sorcerer 
(he) seems to have been. His name resembles (that of) the mucus 
which we are used to blow out of our nose, which is thick, that 
which the Bushmen call \hau\haim. 

+ To his younger sister. (8638') 


114 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ihaunu ha llnuh hoa. 

• D 

(8640) Ikuakaken Iku ssuen-ssu&h ssa, Ikuakaken ( ) Iku 
llgwillgwi ssin. 

*kagdraken ha ka : u A koa ttai, ta, a Iku a 
llwkoen." He, ha hd Ine, tatti, llnein Ine llkhou |hm, 
hah hd Ine kui : u Ttdiya ! Ttdiya ! " Hah ha Ine Ika 
(8641) ( ) ha ll^a-Opua ; ha ll^a-Opuaken Ine \\%l ssa ha. 
Hah hd Ine kui : " Tssede ^a ddoa e, a ddoa Iwkuah 
hi ? " * 

o 


He tfken e, jhaunu ha Ine Ikhamma, i; f ll^aukaken 
(8642) Ine ttdro ( ) |khe d Inulnutu; hah Ine Iku jk'auwi ha 
jkhwi. Ha jkhwi Ine Iku kui, llkhabhe(t),J d, ha 
jkhwi Ine ll^amki jk'auwi ha. Hah Ine kui, llkhabbe(t), 
(8643) d jkhwi. Ha jkhwih ( ) ha Ine ll^amki batten ha. 
Hah ha ka: "A koa ttdi llwki Ika Ikhe ssa n; ta, 

d o ^ • y / 

/ • t 

a llkuah Iku a llwkoen, Ihan yaiiki a hi ll^ke ; ta, ha 

0 3 ' ' > 


yauki Ikwailkwai batten." 

• • o 

(8644) Hih hd luaita ki lla ( ) hi Ikagen. 


Ihaunu ddda ka, 

• D ' 


(8641') * Tchuen e laiti Ikammainya hr, hih h§, ||ke||keya jkhoa; hih e 

i>ya, herri-1 ha ; au hih tatti, hi yauki |uerriya, hih Ine fyua, ||mih 
ta ha tsm^u. 

f jhaunuh a ll;£auken Ine Ihin a Inulnutu, au hah ka, Ikhamma. 
(8642') ( ) Han Ikhanima au ha ka tchueh, e +kagara ty^a, i. 

J llkuah I Ibarra ha jkhwi. 

I Ibarra I Ibarra llkuah e, au jk'e kuften jgw§-I hi Ikagen. I Ibarra - 
(8644') ll^arra llkuah a, hi ta ka ( ) hi kui, jkhl 5 llkii, au h! Il^arra 
Iku-kk5 llku. Ha llkuah ll^arra jku-kko jkhweiten. 


115 


+kXg!ra and Ihatjnu. 

D * 


things, (her) husband's things. He ( ^kqgara ) said: 
u Thou must walk on ; for, home is not near at hand." 

J haunu passed along behind (the hill). 

The clouds came, the clouds ( ) vanished away. (8640) 

Skqgara said: " Thou must walk on, for, thou art 
the one who dost see." And he, because the house 
became near, he exclaimed : " Walk on ! Walk on ! " 

He waited for ( ) his younger sister; his younger (8641) 
sister came up to his side. He exclaimed : " What 
things * can these be, which thou dost heavily 
carry ? " 

Then \ haunu sneezed, on account of it ; t blood 
poured out ( ) of his nostrils ; he stealthily lightened (8642) 
at his brother-in-law. His brother-in-law fended 
him quickly off, J his brother-in-law also stealthily 
lightened at him. He quickly fended off his brother- 
in-law. His brother-in-law ( ) also lightened at him. (8643) 
He (*kagara) said: " Thou must come (and) walk 
close beside me ; for, thou art the one who dost 
see that husband does not allow us time; for, he 
does not singly lighten." 

They ( ^kagara and j haunu) went along angry with 


* The things which the wife carried, they resembled water ; 041 ') 

they, in this manner, were pushing at her ; while they felt that v 
they were not hard, they did in this manner ( i.e . swayed forward), 
behind her back. 

f Yhmnu was the one from whose nostrils blood came out, when 
he intended to sneeze. .( ) He sneezed on account of his things, (8642') 
to which ^Jcdgara did in this manner {i.e. felt at roughly). 

J In the word I \khalbe{t) the t is barely pronounced. The 
meaning of this word is explained by the narrator as follows : — 

(He) fends off his brother-in-law (by motioning with his arm). 

Fending off (it) is, when other people are fighting their fellows 
with their fists. Fending off is that which they are wont to do, 

( ) they wave off with the arm, while they fend off the other one's (8644') 
arm. He (+ kagara ) fended off the other one's lightning. 


116 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ha sse e, bdtten ludhha Ikam tkagara. kkdgdraken 
a ^auki ta Hkhaiten, M Iku llkhabbetenllkhabbeten ha 
(8645) H^a-Opua lha, lha/unu. ( ) Ha ll^a-Opua Ilian ll^amki 
batten-i ha ; hah batten-i ha Ikhwi. Hd ti hih e, ha 
ha Iku-g Ine Ik'ahwi ha ll^a-Opua lha, au jkhwditen 
(8646) a Ihoaka,* hah Iku-g Ine ( ) batten kui sswerrikau 
Ikam ha. 

Ha ll^a-Opua lhah Iku-g Ine Ikuei iki, hah tteh lla ; 
hah hd Iku-g Ine Ikuei Iki, hah Iku-g Ine jkuernten 
(8647) jkhe,t au +kagaraken Ine llhih ( ) ha lna,J au lui, hah 

f t 

Iku-g Ine jkuiten jkhe lla llneih. 

Hail Iku-g Ine Han, tteh llneih, au jhaunuh hd Iku-g 
(8648) Ine jkejkeya tk ; § hah Iku-g Ine jkuernten lina, au ( ) 
4kagaraken Iku-g Ine Han ta, au ha jgiiruwa h! au 
ss &, ss&, ss&, ssa, hah Iku-g Ine ten. 

(8645 J ) * jkhweiten a Ihoaka hah a Ikhf 1, ha i >*auki Ini ki ssa ha; ha 

Iku Hkellkeya jkabbu, iten Iku i likoo au Ikuagen ka jkuerriten, 
au Ikukoken Iku-g Ine ta, Ilka touiten ki ta. 

(8646') t Au ha Ine ta. 

(8647 J ) t ^- a l na llkuan tan, ha Ina llkuan Iki. 

§ Ixam-ka-jk'e, llkuan ka ka, wai a kan Han yua^ua-a ta ; hah 
^auki ta ha antau Ikuken. 


TkagAra and Ihaunu. 

D • 


117 


( ) each other, j haunu had intended that he should (8644) 
be the one lightening to whisk away + hagdra . 

^kagara was one who was strong (lit. u was not 
light ", or u did not feel light "), he continued to fend 
off his younger sister's husband, j haunu. ( ) His (8645) 
younger sister's husband was also lightening at him ; 
he was lightening at his brother-in-law. Then he 
stealthily lightened at his younger sister's husband 
with black lightning,* he, ( ) lightening, whisked (8646) 
him up (and carried him to a little distance). 

His younger sister's husband, in this manner, lay 
dying; he, in this manner, he thundered, f while 
*Mgara bound up ( ) his headj with the net, he, (8647) 
returning, arrived at home. 

He went to lie down in the hut, 'while \ haunu lay 
thundering ; § he thundered there, while ( ) \hagdra (8648) 
went to lie down, when he had rubbed them 
( i.e . himself and his younger sister) with buchu, || 
buchu, buchu, buchu, he lay down. 

* Black lightning is that which kills us, that which we do (8646') 
not perceive it come ; it resembles a gun, we are merely startled 
by the clouds' thundering, while the other man lies, shrivelled 
up lies. 

f As he lay. (8646') 

t His head ached; his head was splitting (with pain). (8647') 

§ To thunder is J Icuernten ; but the narrator explained that v 
\ke\lciya td here means ' to lie thundering ' ; and illustrated the 
expression by saying that "the Bushmen are wont to say that 
the springbok is one which goes to lie bleating ; it is not willing to 
die quickly 

|| Buchu (in Webster's International Dictionary of 1902) is 
stated to be " A South African shrub ( Barosma ) 


118 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Note by the Narrator . 

(8648') N jkoetuka \n6 ta : u *kdgdra-ggu wk e, Iko 
jkh£, hih koa jhaunu." 

Au Ikudka Ine luerriya, he Ikuagen Ine llnau, au 
Ikuaka Ine luernya, he Ikuaka Ine llna t! e a, he 
Ikuagen Ine llkellkeya jkou ; hih e, Ikuagen Ine 
Mtten-i, !. He, h jkoetuken Ine ta : " +kagara e, 
hi h koa jhaunu." 


119 


*k!gXra and Ihauntj. 

D • 

Note hy the Narrator . 

My grandmothers used to say: " agar a and 1118(8643') 
companion are those who fight in the East, he and 
! hdunu" 

When the clouds were thick, and the clouds, when 
the clouds were thick, and the clouds were at this 
place, and the clouds resembled a mountain, then, 
the clouds were lightening, on account of it. And 
my grandmothers used to say : " It is * hag dr a , with 
\haunu 




BUSHMAN, c. 


From the Breakwater. 









Fables. 












122 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IY. — 27. 

u. 

THE HYENA'S EEYENGE. 

First Version. 

(257) jgwaln a lla llkha ga llnein, lie ti liiii e, hail Ine 
datten llkha ; au hah tatti e, llkha Ikwakka ha au 

o D ' * D 

t f 9 « 

llwkhwi ta eh; he ti hih e, llkhah Ine ssa jgwai ta 
llnein, au jgwam j^aiia llna, au jgwal ta jkoa ; jgwaln 
(257') ( ) ine j^aiia ttoi ta eh, i. 

Hd ti hih e, jgwaln Ine a llkha a l^abba, h6 ti hih 
e, llkhah Ine Ikei jkoa, i, au jkoah tta ll, jgwam ll^ani 
jkaiina au jkoa au ha Iwkal^ka ; jgwam Ine Ikdkken : 
u llkhan-au ! Indkki n ku le, a ttu llkale, au l^&bba." 
jgwam Ine ku le llkha ttu au I ^ abb a ; he ti hih e, 
hail Ine Iki le Ikoa ttu au llkha Ina, au Ikoah tta li ; 

(258') l^abbaken Ine llkai llkha tsa^aiten ; ( ) l^dbbaken 
Ine ll^airi Ilka le ha ttu llkai. He ti hih e, hail Ine 
kkorm I ^ abba e tta li, au ha ddomm, hail Ine kkonh 
Ikuken ha, an l^abba e tta li, hah Ine Ikuken, au ha 
I nail I eta IkoS. 

* o 

— Z 9 9 9 

jgwam Ine ho jgwai ta Ilka, jgwaln Ine jkauken-i 
ha au Ilka, au ha Inah leta jkoa, jgwaln Ine jkauken-i 
ha, jgwam Ine jkauken Iki jkoa; au jgwam tdtti e, 
jgwai a datta ha, h£ ti hih e, hah Ine ssa jgwai l. 

(259') jgwam ( ) Ine Iki ha, au l^abba e tta ll ; au hah 
tatti e, Ikoa ssih Ilka Ikhe ll, han Ine Iki I hih Ikoa au 

/•a • o' o • o 


THE HYENA'S REVENGE. 


123 


IV.— 27. 

B. 

THE HYENA'S REVENGE. 

First Version . 

The Hyena was the one who went to the Lion's (257) 
house, then, he deceived the Lion ; while he felt 
that the Lion had acted grudgingly towards him 
about the quagga's flesh; therefore, the Lion came 
to the Hyena's house, when the Hyena was boiling 
there in the Hyena's pot ; the Hyena ( ) boiled (257') 
ostrich flesh in it. 

Therefore, the Hyena gave soup to the Lion ; 
therefore, the Lion took hold of the pot, while the 
pot was hot ; the Hyena also grasped the pot with 
his hands ; the Hyena said : " 0 Lion ! Allow me 
to pour soup into the inside of thy mouth." The 
Hyena poured soup into the Lion's mouth ; then, he 
put the mouth of the pot over the Lion's head, while 
the pot was hot; the soup was burning the Lion's 
eyes; ( ) the soup also burned the inside of his (258') 
mouth. Then, he swallowed hot soup with his throat, 
he swallowed, causing himself to die with hot soup ; 
he died, while his head was inside the pot. 

The Hyena took up the Hyena's stick, the Hyena 
was beating him with the stick, while his head was 
inside the pot ; the Hyena was beating him ; the 
Hyena struck, cleaving the pot asunder ; while the 
Hyena felt that the Hyena had deceived him ; 
therefore, he came to the Hyena. 

The Hyena ( ) killed him, with hot soup ; while (259') 
he felt that the pot had stood upon the fire ; he 


124 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


If, au hail tatti e, ha ka ha ssi Ilka Ikuken llkha, au 
l^abba ka li ; au lian tatti e, llkha ssih Ikwakka ha, 
au ll^khwi ta eh, he ti hi h e, hah Ine datten ha i, au 
tt<5i ta eh ; au hah tatti e, ha ka ha ssi !ki 16 llkhah 
Ina, au jkoa, he ti hih e, ha datten ha 1 ; au hah tatti 

t 

(260') e, ( ) ha llkuah Iku lhah ssho jgwai laiti, hah ll^am 

ru ^ t 

Iku e jgwai gwai ; he ti hih e, ha Iku e Twakken 
llkun l. 

llkhah II yam lhah ssho llkha laiti, au llkhah e llkha 

D /lo D ' 3 D 

f-w t 

gwai. jgwain ll^am lhah ssho I gwai laiti, au jgwain 

/¦NJ / ' 

e jgwai gwai. Ilkaueten ll^am Ihan ssho llkaue laiti, 
(261') au Ilkaueten e llkaue gwai. ikwahjjuiken ( ) lhah 
ssho Ikwah^ii laiti, au Ikwan^uken e Ikwah^u gwai. 


THE HYENA'S REVENGE. 

Second Version. 

^ j ^ t ^ 

(362) jgwain a lla llkha ga llneih, he ti hih e, llkhah Ine 
Skwakken jgwai, i ; he ti hih e jgwain Ine (Twain I ; 
he ti hih e, jgwain Ine ddatten llkha, i, ha si il^am 

(363) ssi ha ga llneih. ( ) jgwain Ine *kakken: " llkha we ! 
A kua ssah li^am ^aiinugu h ga llnein ; " au han 
tatti e, ha ddatten llkha ; he ti hih e, llkhah Ine 

/ o D ' ' D 

~ 9 

(364) yahnugil ha ga llnein, i; hah Ine Han, ddatten ( ) 
llkha, au S^abba. 

Igwain Ine 4kakken : u N ka ku le Ikwa a, ttu au 

¦ O C • ' 


THE HYENAS KEVENGE. 


125 


took the pot off from the fire, while he felt that 
he intended to hum the Lion to death, with the 
soup's heat ; while he felt that the Lion had been 
niggardly towards him about the quagga's flesh ; 
therefore, he deceived him with the ostrich flesh ; 
while he felt that he intended to put the Lion's 
head into the pot ; therefore, he deceived him ; 
while he felt that ( ) he had married a female Hyena, (260') 
he also is a male Hyena ; therefore, he is a " Decayed 
Arm on account of it. 

The Lion also marries a Lioness, as the Lion is 
a male Lion. The Hyena also marries a female 
Hyena, as the Hyena is a male Hyena. The leopard 
also marries a leopardess, as the leopard is a male 
leopard. The hunting leopard t ( ) marries a hunting (261') 
leopardess, as the hunting leopard is a male hunting 
leopard. 


THE HYENA'S REVENGE. 

Second Version. 

The Hyena was the one who went to the Lion's (362) 
house, then, the Lion acted grudgingly towards the 
Hyena ; then, the Hyena became angry about it, 
therefore, the Hyena deceived the Lion, that he 
should also come to his house. ( ) The Hyena said: (363) 
" 0 Lion! Thou must also visit my house;" while 
he felt that he deceived the Lion; therefore, the 
Lion visited his house on account of it ; he went 
to deceive ( ) the Lion with soup. (364) 

The Hyena said : u I am accustomed to pour soup 

* This expression is used to denote a person who acts un- 
generously regarding food, 
f Felis jubata. 


126 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


I^abba, n ll^am ku lb jkwa a, ttu au l^abba, n ll^affi 

(365) ku lb Ikwa ttu au l^abba; n ll^am ku le h lha ttu ( ) 
aul^abba" 

He ti hin e, ban Ine ku le llkb| ttu au l^abba, han 
Ine Ikei le 1 1 khan Ina au ikoa, au han tatti e, ha 
llkbaken Iki le llkha Ina au Ikoa ; ha ssi llkoaken 

o D • o J o 

(366) Ikd llkha, au ( ) l^abba ka li; au han tatti e, ha 
e jgwai a ddatten jkb kkuiten, hah tkakken, hb ti 
hin e, ha +kakka llkha, T. Ilkhan Ine H^am +kakken, 
hin 4kbkka, hi Ikagen, hb ti hin e, llkh|h Ine jhumni 

(367) i, au ( ) han tatti e, ha ll^aiii Iku e llkha a Igebbi, 
au han tatti e, ha Iku e llkha a Iki jk'b; hah ll^am 
hi Ik'e. jgwain ll^am Iki Jk'e, au jgwain tatti, ha 

t * ' 

ll^afn hi jk'e ; he ti hin e, jgwain Ine Ikammain ho 
Inutarra, i. 

(368) ( ) He ti hin e, jgwam Ine h(5 Ilka i, han Ine 
Ikauken tatten ho llkha, au llkha Inan I eta Ikoa : 
hah Ine Ikuarri ha au Ilka, au han tatti e, Ilkhan 

• O ^ i / 3 

Ine Ikuka, au ha Inan leta Ikoa. 


IV.— 28a. 

B. 


ii TTTT A HE-KKO TTOI KA KUMM E. 

3 7 o 

{Dictated, in 1875, in the Katlcop dialect , by Di'alkwfin, who heard 
it from his paternal grandfather, j^ugenddi.) 


(4320) 


He llkh| Iwkabbe,* ti e, he sse ddof dddtten ttoi ; 
ta, Ikagen ka Iku llnau ttoi, hin iki! i Iku err e ttoi o 


(4320') 


* Explanatory Note by the Narrator. 

Ilkhfh e !kui, ttoi-t§n ||x|m e Jkui, ha ll^keten a llkh| 
LnMya ttoi llhatten-ttu, a ; 6 hin jgumni +g6bbi-ggu. He tfken 


THE LION AND THE OSTRICH. 


127 


into this child's mouth, I also pour soup into this 
child's mouth, I also pour soup into the child's 
mouth; I also pour into my wife's mouth ( ) soup." (365) 

Therefore, he poured soup into the Lion's mouth, 
he put the Lion's head into the pot, while he felt 
that he altogether put the Lion's head into the pot; 
that he might altogether kill the Lion with ( ) (366) 
the soup's heat; while he feels that he is a Hyena * 
who deceives other people ; he speaks ; therefore, 
he talked to the Lion about it. The Lion also 
speaks; they talked to each other; therefore, the 
Lion assented, because ( ) he also is a foolish Lion, (367) 
because he is a Lion who kills people; he also eats 
people. The Hyena also kills people, while the 
Hyena feels that he also eats people ; therefore, the 
Hyena carried off the old woman * on account of it. 

( ) Therefore, the Hyena took up the stick, he (368) 
struck the Lion down, while the Lion's head was 
inside the pot; he beat him with the stick, while 
he felt that the Lion died, when his head was inside 
the pot. 

IY. — 28a. 

B. 

THE LIOH JEALOUS OF THE VOICE OF 
THE OSTRICH. 

u It is the Story of the Lions and the Ostrich ." 

And the Lions conspired f together that they (4320) 
might deceive the Ostrich ; for, the women X were 

* This is an allusion to a favourite Bushman story. Vide § 80 
of Dr. Bleek's " Brief Account of Bushman Eolk-lore and other 
Texts", Cape Town, 1875. 

t The Lion was a man, the Ostrich was also a man, at the time (4320') 
when the Lion kicked the Ostrich's Whatten-ttu ; when they called 


128 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 4321 ) 

( 4322 ) 

& 

( 4324 ) 

( 4325 ) 

( 4326 ) 


( 7978 ) 

( 7979 ) 


jgumm ttwaiten ; ( ) Ikakaken ra iiki Ikudrre he. He 
he Ine ku-kkui-ten lake : " I kka sse tte lid, I ddatta ? " 
He llkha kko ku-kkui, han lake: "I kah ddod sse 
Iwke Ikagen sse ddi hgebbi-ggu,* ( ) i sse l^koen, ti 
e, Ikagen sse l!^a be ddi ti e, hd ka ddi he ; he, be 
Ikii ddoa i Ila ttoi ; i sse ISwkoen kwo-kkwah, ti e, 
jkei 1 1 aTi I nil ddoa a, ikagen Ila ttoi a. I sse ( ) 
llwkoen, ti e ttoi sse Ikuei Ikue-lkue, !." He llkba kko 
ku-kkui, bah l^ke : u Ttsa dde ^a ddoa a, ttoi Tauld 
ttumsse jgumm ttwai-i a ? " He ilkba kko ku-kkui, 
bah iwke : u Ttoi ( ) kah jgumm o ha sso-ssoken ; he 
tiken e, ha ddomm Ikuedda, i; ha jka^u ka jkha, i. 
Aken linau ti e, a jgumm o a ttu ; he tiken e, a Tauki 
jgumm akken, i." 

llkha ( ) kko ku-kkui, bah l^ke : u TJ kkda sse ddi 
+gebbi-ggu, il sse ikha ttoi, u sse Iki Ihiii ttoi sso- 
ssoken, u sse ha i ; he u sse jgumm ku j^wa ttoi, i, o 
u ha ttoi sso-ssoken." 

o 

e, ttoi likurru JTwakka i, o hm tta Ilka ti e, ha oa +nmya likh| 
|uan-ttu. He tiken e, he jywakka, I. He tiken e, Jk'^-ten Ine 
linau, ttwl Ike ss'o ttoi llhatten-ttu, hih ka llkha likurru e. 

* The I goo, or ^gehhi-gii, as performed among the Grass Bushmen , 
was described by lhan+kass'5, in 1878, as follows : — 

Hi llkuan Iku jgumm; Ikakaken llkuan jkoeta hi; hih Ine 
jgumm Ikagen. Ikakaken e 4:na ; hi n |ue jgumm. He jkui laiti, 
a ha Ine I hih Ila, ha Ine jkhe, au jk'e kuiten e jku, hi Ine ( ) jk'u 
le ssa, Ik'e ta ttuken, au Ik'e ta ttuka Ine jgumm. Hih yauki 
jgumm ttwaiten Ilka hi, ta, hi ddomm Iku jxwan ttoi kwokkwan; 
au Ikakaken |ne e jkutten, au jk'e ta ttuka |ne Jgumm. 


THE LION AND THE OSTRICH. 


129 


wont, with regard to the Ostrich, they only praised 
the Ostrich for calling finely ; ( ) the women did (4321) 
not praise them. And they (the Lions), speaking, 
said: " In what manner shall we deceive?" And 
another Lion answered, he said: "We must tell 
the women to make a (game of) $gebbi-ggu* ( ) that (4322) 
we may see whether the women will again do as they 
are wont to do ; when they only admire (?) the 
Ostrich ; that we may really see whether it he true 
that the women admire (?) the Ostrich. We shall 
( ) see what the Ostrich will do." And another (4324) 
Lion spoke, he said: "Why can it be that the 
Ostrich calls so well {lit. does not a little call 
sweetly) ? " And the other Lion answered, he said : 

"The ostrich ( ) calls with his lungs; therefore, his (4325) 
throat sounds in this manner ; his chest's front. Thou 
dost call with thy mouth ; therefore, thou dost not 
call nicely." 

The other ( ) Lion answered, he said: "Ye must (4326) 
make a (game of) *gebbi-ggu, that ye may kill the 
Ostrich, that ye may take out the Ostrich's lungs, 


(in) the tyebbi-ggu. Therefore, the nail of the Ostrich decayed, 
while it felt that he (the Ostrich) had kicked the Lion's I uan-ttti. 
Therefore, it decayed. Therefore, the people, with regard to the 
scar yonder on the Ostrich's II hdtten-tiu, they say that it is (from) 
the Lion's nail. 

J The women of the Ostriches and of the Lions. 


* The I goo or 4:gebbi-gu among the Grass Bushmen. 

They (the Grass Bushmen) call [like the male ostrich]; the (7978) 
women clap their hands for them ; they (the men) call to the 
women. The women are those who dance ; they (the men) call. 

And this woman goes out (from the dance), she stands [being 
weary], while two other persons (i.e. two other women), they ( ) (7979) 
come forward in among the men, while the men call. They call 
more sweetly than anybody, for, their throats sound like real 
ostriches ; while the women are those who sing, while the men call. 


K 


130 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(4327) ( ) He llkha Ine ku-kkui, hih l^ke ikagen : "Ddi 

Igebbi-ggu." He sse ttumm, ti e, jkei llau Inu a ttbi 
Iguimii ttwai-i a. 

He ikagen llkuah Ine ddl +gebbi-ggu, i; he llkha 
(4328) Ignihm, L ( ) Ttoi-ten jnaunkko kah llna, ha ka 
llneih ; llkha Igiimm, i ; Ikakaken ^auki ywa +ugen 
llkha ; o hih ta Ilka ti e, llkha >*auki jgumin ttwai-i ; 
(4329) ta, he Iku Hwkoen o llkha; ( ) he ttoi llkuah Ine 
ssa, I ; hb ttoi llkuah Ine kui |ka-u ssih, L He 
Ikagen kkui : " T8 kan ddba ka llkha Ikuedda, ha 

O o D D Do/ 

Igumm ; ta, ha ka Iku J^wah ha jnum ta ha lahni, 
(4330) o ti e, tt(5i ta ( ) jk'btten kb Igumm." 

He llkha ku-kkui-ten Iwke : "Akken ) J aii ddba 

3 ° ° 33 

ll^koen, ti e, Ikagen ddba Ikuei >b, o ttbi, I ; he, 
he ddba Iku i llnau ttbi, hah Iku ddba a, he kkoka 
(4331) ha, o ha ( ) ddba Iki jgumiri ttwaiten a a. Ikakaken 

w ~ f 

ddoa Iku I kkoka ha." 

d d — 

He llkha kko Ikwain, I; ti e, ttoi Iku ddba a Ikagen 

~ 9 t 9 ~ 

(4332) kkoka ha; he ha ) J wan ha jkhe Ihih lla, i; ( ) he 

ha llki ttoi llhatten-ttu, i; llki tt^erri he, i. He, ha 

kkui-ten l^ke: " Ttsa ka Igumm ttwaita e?" 
o hah tnai ttbi llhatten-ttu. He ttbi ll^am jkarra-ken 
(4333) ssih, I^uohni, I. ( ) He ttoi ll^am +nai, tt^erri ha 
luan-ttu, i; he ttoi ku-kkui-ten Iwke : " Ikui a, ha 

O ' / o • o o / 

t . £ f 

luan-ttu e, ha-g Ine jkwain n, o ti e, ha llkuah Iku a, 


THE LION AND THE OSTRICH. 


131 


that ye may eat them; and ye will call, sounding 
like the Ostrich, when ye have eaten the Ostrich's 
lungs." 

( ) And the Lions spoke, they said to the women : (4327) 
"Make a (game of) $gebbi-ggu." They would listen 
whether it were true that the Ostrich calls finely. 

And the women made a (game of) *gebbi-ggu on 
account of it ; and the Lion called. ( ) The Ostrich (4328) 
was still yonder at his house; the Lion called; the 
women did not applaud the Lion, because they felt 
that the Lion did not call well ; for, they continued 
to look at the Lion; ( ) and the Ostrich came ; (4329) 
and the Ostrich called, sounding afar. And the 
women exclaimed: "I do wish that the Lion called 
in this manner ; for, he sounds as if he had put his 
tail into his mouth, while the Ostrich ( ) calls in (4330) 
a resounding manner." 

And the Lion, answering, said: "Dost thou not 
see that the women act in this manner towards the 
Ostrich? and it is only the Ostrich whom they 
cherish, because he ( ) possesses this sweet call. (4331) 
The women cherish him only." 

And the other Lion became angry on account of 
it; namely, that the Ostrich was the one whom 
the women cherished; and he seemed as if he were 
about to move away; ( ) and he scratched the (4332) 
Ostrich's Whatten-ttu \ scratched, tearing it. And he 
called out: "Is it a thing which calls sweetly?" 
while he kicked the Ostrich's II hatten-ttii* And the 
Ostrich also quickly (?) turned back. ( ) And (4333) 
the Ostrich also kicked, tearing his I uah-ttu; and 
the Ostrich, speaking, said : " This person, it is his 
I uah-ttu, he is wroth with me, because he is the 
one who is wont to hold his tail in his mouth 


132 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(4334) ka jnum ta ha lahni, o ha ( ) jgumm; he tiken 

9 % 

llkuan e, Ikagen Tauki Ikuerre ha. i; o Ikakaken 
llkuan ta ka ti e, ha Tautd jgumm dhahnuwa Ikagen, 
a. He tiken llkuan e, Ikagen ^auki kke he dda ha a, 
(4335) ( ) dgebbi-ggu, i; Ikakaken llkuan ta, Ilka ti e, ha 
yauki jgumm kkui j^wah n, i; he llkuan e, Ikagen 

r „ 

ssiii ssih Ikuerre ha, i." 

He tiken e, h jkoin Ine ku-kkui, hah Iwkeya ssi 
(4336) a, ( ) ssi sse ll^am llkellke, ti e, llkha hha 6a dda 
ttoi a he, h6 ha hha oa Ikhi ttoi; han Ine hi ttoi 
sso-ssoken, 6 han ka, ha sse jgumm kku j^wah- 
(4337) j^wan ttoi. He tiken e, ( ) ha hi sso-ssoken, L 

H jkoin yah Ine ll^am a ssi ha, tt<5i sso-ssoken, ssi 
sse ll^aui llkellke ttoi; he ssi-g Ine ku-kkui, ssiten 

r ^ f 

(4338) ttuttu ssi jkoin, ti e, ssi-g Inn >au sse ( ) jkhaugen 
Iki Ilka ttdi sso-ssoken ; he ssi Jkoin Ine kiii, han 
dkakka ssi a, ssi Tauki sse Iki Ilka ttoi sso-ssoken ; 
(4339) ta, ssi Ikii Ikuei Ikuah, hhi tt<5i sso-ssoken, ( ) Ikii 
llkah he. Ta, ssi ssah llnau, ssi hha ttoi sso-ssoken 

3 / D / O 

t 

6 he Ilka., ssiten ^auki ssah jgumm kku j^wahj^wan 
ttoi, 6 ssi hha he, 6 he Ilka. Ssi jkoin yah Ine 
(4340) ku-kkui- ten ( ) l^keya ssi a, ssi Taiiki sse llkhwai 
ttoi sso-ssoken, ssi Ikii sse kkonn jho he, 6 hd Iku 
durru. Ta, ssi ssah llnau, ssi llkhwaiya ttoi sso- 
(4341) ssoken, ssiten Taliki ssah jgumm kku j^wahjj/wah ( ) 
ttoi, 6 ssi llkliwalya he. 

He, ssi koih Ine ku-kkuiten Iwke : u TJ sse Ine 


THE LION AND THE OSTRICH. 


133 


when he ( ) calls; this is why the women do not (4334) 
praise him; while the women feel that he does 
not call nicely for the women. This is why the 
women are not willing to make ( ) a *gebbi-ggu (4335) 
for him; the women feel that he does not call, 
sounding like me ; in that case the women would 
have praised him." 

Therefore, my grandfather spoke, he said to us* 
about it, ( ) that we should also do as the Lion (4336) 
formerly did to the Ostrich about it, when he had 
formerly killed the Ostrich; he ate the Ostrich's 
lungs, while he wished that he might call, sounding 
like the Ostrich. Therefore, ( ) he ate the lungs. (4337) 

My grandfather also gave us the Ostrich's lungs 
to eat, that we might also resemble the Ostrich; 
and we spoke, we asked our grandfather, whether 
we should not ( ) baking cook the Ostrich's lungs; (4338) 
and our grandfather spoke, he said to us about it, 
that we should not cook the Ostrich's lungs ; for, 
we in this manner eat the Ostrich's lungs, ( ) eat (4339) 
them raw. For, we should, if we were to eat the 
Ostrich's lungs when they were cooked, we should 
not call, sounding like the Ostrich, if we ate them 
when they were cooked. Our grandfather, speaking, 

( ) told us about it, that, we should not chew the (4340) 
Ostrich's lungs, we should swallow them down, 
while they were whole. For, we should, if we had 
chewed the Ostrich's lungs, we should not call, 
sounding like ( ) the Ostrich, if we had chewed (4341) 
them. 

And, our grandfather, speaking, said: "Ye must 
come and stand around, that I may be cutting off 
from the Ostrich's lungs, that I may be giving 

* "We who were little boys," the narrator explains. 


134 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN POLKLOEE. 


jkhe ttin sse, h sse Ikhaulkhau Ikam, 6 ttoi sso- 
(4342) ssoken, n sse a a hu we, u sse kkoim-kkonn ( ) jho 
he." lie ssf ku-kkui-ten l^ke : " H jkoih wwe ! Ssi 
ttan yaliki sse ha ttdi sso-ssoken, o he Ika." He ssi 

of D 

9 V — ' f ~ f 

jkoih ku-kkui han +kakka ssi a, ssi ll^am ka ssi sse 
(4343) llkellke ( ) llkha; ha Ine hha 6a jkwain ttoi, o ttoi 
ka jguhmi ttwaiten. Ssiten ll^am ka ssi sse llnau, 
ssi ttui ti e, ssi Ikagen jgumm kui j^wa ttwaiten 
(4344) llweiya, ssi kkoa-g Ine jkwain ssi ( ) Ikagen, 6 ssl-g 
Ine ttui, ti e, he jgunihi kui j^wa ttwaiten llweiya; 


ssi kkoa-g Ine dda he a, la, 6 ssi tta Ilka ti e, Ikagen 
(4344^)yauki Ine >wa +ugen ssi. He tiken e, ssi-g ( ) Ine 
jkwain, i. Ssiten Ine ddia Iki-lki he; 6 ssi-g Ine 

r<j f « f 

jkwain ti e, Ikagen ^auki Ine >*wa tugen ssi. 


Notes by the Narrator. 

(4320') llkhan e jkui, ttoi-ten ll^am e jkui, ha ll^keten a 
llkha +naiya ttoi llhdtten-ttu, a ; 6 hin jgunim Igdbbi- 
ggu. He tiken e, ttoi llkurru j^wakka I; o hin tta 
Ilka ti e, ha 6a +naiya llkha luan-ttu. He tiken e, he 
j^wakka, i. He tiken e, jk'dten Ine llnau, ttwi Ike 
ss'o ttoi llhdtten-ttu, hin ka llkha llkurru d. 

(4335') ll^ke a llkh| yauki Ikha ttdi a, ha kan a, he dda 
+gdbbi-ggu ka la a. Hah Iku-g Ine jhaugen Ikhi 
ttoi ; he ha Ine hhi tt(5i, i ; 6 ll^ke llkan, hah Iku Ine 
a, ha Ine hhi ttoi a; he ha-g Ine dda ha ka ttss'a, 6 
tt<5i ; he tiken e, jk'e jke-jkdrriten kan Idke, llkha e 

(4336') ttss'd a, kd ha sse llnau, ( ) 6 ha Ikha ttdi, han yauki 


THE LION AND THE OSTRICH. 


135 


them to you, that ye may be swallowing ( ) them (4842) 
down." And we, answering, said: u 0 my grand- 
father! We do not wish to eat the Ostrich's lungs 
when they are raw." And our grandfather answered, 
he said to us about it, that we also wished to resemble 
( ) the Lion; he formerly became angry with the (4343) 
Ostrich, about the Ostrich's fine calling. We also 
should be wont if we heard that our companions 
called, sounding very sweetly, we should become 
angry with our ( ) companions, when we heard (4344) 
that they called, sounding very sweetly ; we should 
fight with them, if we felt that the women did not 
applaud (?) us. Therefore, ( ) we become angry. (434 4|) 
We are fighting with them, because we are angry 
that the women do not applaud (?) us. 


Translation of Notes . 

The Lion was a man, the Ostrich was also a man, ( 4 320') 
at that time when the Lion kicked the Ostrich's 
Whatten-ttu ; when they were calling the $g£bbi-ggu. 
Therefore, the nail of the Ostrich decayed; while 
it felt that he had kicked the Lion's luan-ttu. 

o 

Therefore, it decayed on account of it. Therefore, 
the people are used to say to the scar which is 
yonder upon the Ostrich's Whatten-ttu , that it is the 
Lion's nail. 

The time when the Lion had not killed the Ostrich, (4335 J ) 
was the one at which they made the Igebbi-ggu's 
fight. He, afterwards, killed the Ostrich; and he 
ate the Ostrich; it was at a new time that he ate 
the Ostrich; and he made "a food's thing" of the 
Ostrich ; therefore, the old people say, that, the 
Lion is a thing which is wont, ( ) when it has (4336') 


136 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ta ha sse ISkdo (Slgdbbe) £u ttu tto'i ; ta, ha ka ha sse 

- >D 

llnau, i kki-ssa +>hkken-i ha, hah ^auki ka ha sse 
llkoo, £u ttu ttoi. Ta, ha ka ha sse Skwa-Skwa i, o i 
kki-ssa, +!, tl e, 1 ka, 1 She Ski ttal ha. 


IV.— 34. 

B. 

THE RESURRECTION OF THE OSTRICH. 

( Related by lajkunta.) 

(1171) l^am-ka-lkuiten Ski toi an toi-ta Ikwiten; hah Sne 

la 16 ° lc 2 3 4 3 5 6 7 

Ikammih-ti-lla toi an ISndih. He e, ha I hih Ine ho 

8 9 3 4 10 11 6 12 7 13 

(1172) toi-lku, e sin Suhi-ssho ( ) Sui, au hih Ski Sl^auken; 

3 14 15 16 17 18 19 6 20 21 

han Ine Hah Sk(5nn llk<5 hi. Hih Ine hi toii dh«eh. 

¦I 

6 7 22 23 24 6 6 7 25 3 26 

Ilgollgo-Ouaken Sne ss'a hi-hi; hah Ine ts 5 u-hh(5 

27 7 28 6 6 7 29 13 

(1173) toi-lku. Toi-lkd-Oua a Ski ( ) ll^auken, hah fine 

3 14 3 14 30 15 20 21 6 7 

ts'u-ki Hkaiten Skiiken-Oud au Igwayu. Ikuken- 

o o o • o /v* o 

29 31 32 14 27 4 33 14 

Ouaken Sne tatten la Shin figwa^u, hah Sne ttoffi- 

27 7 34 35 36 33 6 7 37 

(1174) ttoffiya ( ) fifko§, hah fine fie Ikhwa, hah Sne Ilka le-tih 

38 6 7 39 40 6 7 41 39 42 

jkhwa, hah fine Iku llnau, hah Seta Ikhwa, hah Ine di 

40 6 7 43 44 6 39 45 40 6 7 46 

(1175) toi dn-eh; hah Sne Ski-Ski fikuken, ( ) hah Ine fihdfiho 

3 26 6 7 47 48 6 7 49 

ha llkulfikuh, hah Sne Ski-Ski ha Ikwalkwagen, au hah 

6 50 6 7 47 6 40 19 6 

Iku leta |khwa. Hah fine Sku tae Ihih Ikhwa, hah Sne 

43 39 45 40 6 7 43 51 36 40 6 7 


RESURRECTION OF OSTRICH. 


137 


killed an Ostrich, it is not willing to go away in 
fear, leaving the Ostrich ; for, it is wont, even if 
we are speaking very angrily to it, it is not willing 
to go away in fear, leaving the Ostrich. For, it 
would be very angry with us, if we even thought 
that we would drive it away. 


IY.— 34. 

B. 

THE RESURRECTION OF THE OSTRICH. 

The Bushman kills an Ostrich at the Ostrich's (1171) 
eggs ; he carries away the Ostrich to the house. 

And his wife takes off the Ostrich's short feathers 
which were inside ( ) the net, because they were (1172) 
bloody; she goes to place them (on the bushes). 

They eat the Ostrich meat. 

A little whirlwind comes to them ; it blows up 
the Ostrich feathers. A little Ostrich feather that 
has ( ) blood upon it, it blows up the little feather (1173) 
into the sky. The little feather falls down out of 
the sky, it having whirled round ( ) falls down, (1174) 
it goes into the water, it becomes wet in the water, 
it is conscious, it lies in the water, it becomes 
Ostrich flesh; it gets feathers, ( ) it puts on its (1175) 
wings, it gets its legs, while it lies in the water. 


138 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(1176) ik&rra ( ) llkao tin jkhwa-kadau, au han tatti, ha 

52 53 42 40 54 19 6 55 6 

Jndunko 6 toi-Oua. Ha Ikuken Iku e llkdtten ; au 

56 57 3 27 6 48 43 15 58 ° 19 

(1177) han tatti e, ha Iku Iku e Ikuken-ta-jkduken. Hin ( ) 

6 55 15 6 14 43 15 48 15 27 6 

Ihoaka; au hin tatti, toi-gwai-Oua 6 . Hah Jkurru- 

59 19 6 55 3 60 27 57 6 61 

kenjkurruken llkau-ta jk&wa- Ina-ts'i-ta jau, ha se 

53 45 40 62 63 54 6 64 

(1178) jhau ha tae u, au ha Ikuken-ka- jkauka ( ) jkurruka, 

65 6 51 66 19 6 48 27 67 61 67 

ha se tae Ini Ini ha jkwajkwagen. Ta ha Iku-ss'in 

6 61 51 68 6 40 69 6 43 70 

leta jkhwa; ha se tae jkwainjkwain ha Inodjnoa, au 

39 45 40 6 64 51 71 6 72 19 

(1179) ha tatti e, ha ka ha jnodjnod se ( ) Juhitte Ikwiten, au 

6 55 6 73 6 72 64 74 75 19 

han tatti ha jnoa Ine jkwain. Au hah tae l^oal^6a 

6 55 6 72 7 71 19 6 51 76 

(1180) ha jnodjnod, han ten-ten, ha jnajna ha jka^u, ( ) ha 

6 72 6 77 6 78 6 79 6 

1 1 go rr o se di Ikwa. Hah tae-tae ui, hah hi karru-ka 

80 64 46 40 6 51 81 66 82 6 25 83 

jkduken, au han tatti toi-Oud Iku Ha Iku llhon 

27 19 6 55 3 27 43 57 6 43 84 

(1181) Ohogen-ka jkduken e ( ) +enn; au han tatti toi-Oua 

85 15 27 86 15 87 19 6 55 3 27 

Iku e. Ha Ilkdtten-Oua Iku a di toi en-en, ha Iku a 

— o o / 

43 57 6 58 27&30 43 15 46 3 26 6 43 15 

Jkw^ ts'u-hoa ha, au jkweten 6 Ilgollgo-Oua ; hah +i 

88 29 13 89 6 19 88 57 27 6 90 

(1182) ti e, ( ) ha sin l^&rriya hi ; hah kiki ha, ha se Ihamm- 

91 15 6 16 92 6 6 93 ' 6 94 

ki, ha se Ikati Ine ten-ten-ya Ikam lie ha-ka llnain 

93 

(1183) jkh whiten, he ha sin Ikuken ( ) tenya hi, ha se lla 
l^^rri llkde sin llnain ts'drroken, au hah Ine l^dnima 
ha-ka Ikagen. Ha se Ine Ikdm ja llko toi laitiko ; au 


RESURRECTION OF OSTRICH. 


139 


It walks out of the water, it basks in the sun ( ) (1176) 
upon the water's edge, because it is still a young 

Ostrich. Its feathers are young feathers (quills); 

/ 

because its feathers are little feathers. They ( ) (1177) 
are black; for a little male Ostrich it is. He dries 
(his feathers) lying upon the water's bank, that he 
may afterwards walk away, when his little feathers 
( ) are dried, that he may walk unstiffening his legs. (1178) 
For he had been in the water; that he may walk 
strengthening his feet, for he thinks that his feet 
must ( ) be in (Ostrich's) veldschoens, because his (1179) 
feet become strong. While he walks strengthening 
his feet, he lies down, he hardens his breast, ( ) (1180) 
that his breastbone may become bone. He walks 
away, he eats young bushes, because a young Ostrich 
he is. He swallows young plants which are ( ) (1181 ) 
small, because a little Ostrich he is. His little 
feather it was which became the Ostrich, it was 
that which the wind blew up, while the wind was 
a little whirlwind ; he thinks of the place on 
which ( ) he has scratched; he lets himself grow, (1182) 
that he may first be grown, that he may afterwards, 
lying (by the way), go to his house's old place, 
where he did die ( ) lying there, that he may go (1183) 
to scratch in the old house,* while he goes to fetch 
his wives. He will add (to the two previous ones) 


* Making the new house on the old one. 


(1183') 


140 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 1184 ) 

( 1185 ) 

( 1186 ) 

( 1187 ) 

( 1188 ) 

( 1189 ) 

( 1190 ) 

( 1191 ) 

( 1192 ) 

( 1193 ) 

( 1194 ) 


ha tatti ha sin Iku Ikuka, ( ) ha se lhan sin toi-ta 
Ikagen e jndarra. Au ha tatti e, ha llgorro Ine e Ikwa, 
hah jgumm Indjna ha jaunjan, ha jaujau se di jkwaken. 
( ) He e, hah Ine l^erri i, au ha tatti e, ha llkwah 
Ine lunlun sin-ha Ik4i 11a llnain Ikhwditen ; hah Ine 
jgumm Jkui toi-ta Ikagen, toi-ta Ikagen se Ine ( ) 
llkau ha. lie ti kin e, ha jgumm jkwl 1, ha se Ini 
toi-ta Ikaka ssa ha-ha ; hh e, hail Ine jken hi, ha se SSa 
jkaii & Ikagen ; ta ha sin Iku ( ) Ikiika ; ha Iku Ikuken 
ha-ha-ka Ikagen. Ha se li^koen ha-ka Ikagen 
Ikii, ta ha-ka Ikagen Iku ^oa Ine aken. 

Au han I Ikwarrihl Ikwarrih ( ) Iki ha en-eh, ha siii 
Ine tta kk6en, au han Ine tae ss'a, an ha tatti e, ha 
jkwajkwag' Ine jkuijkuita, ha Inoalnoadeyaken Ine 
( ) jkuijkuita, hah Ine jkuwa Ikiikken jkejketten, 
au hah Ine tatti llkotten Ine e Ikiiken Ikelketten ; 
Ikukaken Ine jna, hin Iku Ine e Ikuken jkheigu. He 
ti hi h e ( ) hah Ine jgumm llkwei, au hah tatti e 
jaujau Ine jkuijkuita. He ha Ine e toi jkdrri, I ; ha 
llkullkun-ka jgauaken Ine jk<5jkoka. Hah Ine +i ( ) 
ti e, ha se l^erri, Ikagen se jhojho jkwiten ; ta ha 
llkullkutten llkwah Ine liirriya, hin llkwah tail ha se 
l^erri ; ta ha llkwah jkaii ki ssa ( ) Ikagen au llnain 
Ikhwaiten. Ikakaken llkwah Ine ha Ikhe. He ti hih 

• o o • 

e, ha Iku Ine tai j(k)ui, hah Iku Ine l^&rri, au toi-ta 
Ikakaken Iku Ine ha llna. ( ) Hah jhamm Iku Slah 
l^rri jkauwaken llko llnain, an han tatti Ikdrri e, 
llnain llkaie se llko. Toi-ta Ikakaken Ine san llwkoeh 

o , 

llnain, toi laiti a jkwai ( ) hah Ine ten tatta llnain, 
hah Ine ta ti e llnain ) J oa aken : hah lhamm Iku Sun 

g ° 7 


RESURRECTION OF OSTRICH. 


141 


another she Ostrich; because he did die, ( ) he will (1184) 
marry three Ostrich wives. Because his breastbone 
is bone, he roars, hardening his ribs, that his ribs 
may become bone. ( ) Then he scratches (out a (1185) 
house), for he does sleeping (by the way) arrive 
at the house's place; he roaring calls the Ostrich 
wives, that the Ostrich wives may ( ) come to him. (1186) 
Therefore he roaring calls, that he may perceive 
the she Ostriches come to him; and he meets them, 
that he may run round the females; for he had ( ) (1187) 
been dead; he dying left his wives. He will look 
at his wives' feathers, for his wives' feathers appear 
to be fine. 

When he has strengthened ( ) his flesh, he feels (1188) 
heavy, as he comes, because his legs are big, his knees 
are ( ) large; he has grown great feathers, because (1189) 
the quills are those which are great feathers; these 
feathers become strong, they are old feathers. 
Therefore ( ) he roars strongly, for the ribs are (1190) 
big. And he is a grown up Ostrich; his wings' 
feathers are long. He thinks ( ) that he will (1191) 
scratch, that the females may lay eggs ; for his 
claws are hard, they want to scratch ; for he brings 
( ) the females to the house's place. The females (1192) 
stand eating. Therefore he goes back, he scratches, 
while the she Ostriches eat there. ( ) He first (1193) 
goes to scratch drying the house, because it is 
damp, that the inside of the house may dry. The 
she Ostriches shall look at the house ; one she 
Ostrich, ( ) she lies down to try the house, she (1194) 
tries whether the house seems to be nice; she first 
sleeps opposite the house, because the inside of the 


142 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(1195) jgwetin llnain, au han tatti e, llndin llkaie Ika, au ( ) 
llndihyan tatti Jkwa Ikati kau. He ti kin e, hi 
jMmm jgwejgwetih llnain i, hih lunlun jgw^ssih 
(1196) llnain i. Han Ine sail ten jkw(5bbo ( ) ka sin llnain ; 
han lhanmi llai ten Ikwbbbo ka sseten llnain, llnain 
llkaie se Ikurruken, laitiko se ssa Inhi Ih 6 Ikaui, au 
(1197) llndin ( ) llkaie-ya llkowa, ta Ilndinta Jau Ika. Hah 
jMm Iku Hah jgwetin llnain. laitiko a jkwai hah 
(1198) ll^a hah ssa, hah sail jh6 jaui llkanko; ( ) hah jharhrn 
Iku san llkain llnain, au hah tatti e jkwiten-ta jka'uken 
jku jkhe ; hah Wffi hah Iku llan lun jgw^ssin llnain. 
(1199) Ikagen-ka kuwaken ( ) e Ine lun llndih. Hah jkagen 
kau fatten Ikam ss'a Ikagen au llnain, hah Ine san 
(1200) jh^e Ikilki Ikagen au llnain ; hi-takugen Ine ( ) ta§ 
jkhe ss'a llnain. laitiko a l^drra hah Ine jho jauiko ; 
bin ll^a hih llkain Ikilki ha. Hah ss'wei Iki [or 
(1201) ss'wei ki] ta§ Ikagen, hah Ine juhittih ( ) llndin. 
Ikakaggen Ine jkaujkauruken jkhe ss'a ha au llnain; 
Ikakaggen jkann hho ha, hi kakugen llkain* jkwiten. 
(1202) Hah Ine tae au hah I la ha. Ikagen e jku ( ) hih Ine 
ten llnain ; laitikogen ll^ani tae hi ha, hih llan ha 
llnaillnaii ; hi h lun. Ikagen e jku hih lu llnain. Hih 
(1203) jkagen kau, ju jkuiten ( ) ss'a, hih san jkagen kau 
sail jkann ho Ikagen e jku, he sin ta llnain. laiti a 
sin llna ha, hah jh6 jauiko ; Ikakagen Ine tae, Ikagen 
(1204) ( ) ka ku, au hah Ine ten, ha se Ooen llnain. Ha 
ssah [u^e koro, au hah +i ti e koro ka sse jkwiten, 
(1205) k6ro ss'a herri-a jkwiten. He ti hih e, ( ) ha llkann 

[* The word II kain sometimes means 'rejoices oyer', and 
possibly also ' caresses'.] 


RESURRECTION OF OSTRICH. 


143 


house is wet, as ( ) the rain has newly fallen. (1195) 
Thus they first lie opposite the house, they sleep 
opposite the house. She shall lie, making ( ) the (1196) 
ground inside the house soft; she first lies, making 
the ground inside the house soft, that the inside 
of the house may be dry, that another female may 
come and lay an egg in the inside of the house ( ) (1197) 
which is dry, for the earth of the house is wet. 

She first goes to lie opposite the house. One other 
female again comes, she comes to lay another new 
egg; ( ) she first comes to flap her wings in the (1198) 
house, for two small eggs stand (there); she again 
goes to sleep opposite the house. All the females 
( ) are those who sleep at the house. He galloping (1199) 
in the dark drives the females to the house; he 
shall running take the females to the house; they 
all ( ) walking arrive at the house. Another (1200) 
female, a different one, lays another egg ; they 
again flapping their wings peck at it. He drives 
the females away; he lies inside ( ) the house. (1201) 
These females, following each other, reach him at 
the house ; these females send him off, they all 
lay eggs. He goes, for he goes away to eat. 

Two wives ( ) lie in the house; another wife also (1202) 
goes with him, they go to eat together; they sleep. 

The two wives sleep in the house. They two 
(the male and female) return early, ( ) they shall (1203) 
early send off the two wives, who had lain in the 
house. The wife who had been with him, lays 
another egg; the wives go, all the wives, ( ) whilst (1204) 
he lies down, that he may sleep at the house. 

He will drive away the jackal, when he thinks 
that the jackal is coming to the eggs, the jackal 
will push the eggs. Therefore ( ) he takes care (1205) 


144 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ikwften 1 , au han tatti e, ha-ga jaiiken llkwan e. He 
ti hin e 5 ka ll^am llkann hi I, ha se llkwarra k(5ro, 
(1206) k<5ro se ^auki Ika ha Ikauken, ( ) ha se +nai-a k(5ro 
au ha jnoajnoa. 


PART OF THE PRECEDING TALE PARSED 
BY DR. BLEEK. 

la. I x am a word that as yet has only been met with 

in the general name for Bushmen \yam-kaAei (sing. 
I yam-kaAkui c a Bushman '), further in \%am-ka- 
+ kakken 1 Bushman language I yam-kaAm 6 Bushman 
ground, Bushman land', and in hih + kakken \yam 
c they talk Bushman ', etc. This seems to refer to 
the Bushmen in general as a nation, whilst the noun 
Ss'wd-k'aAkui (pi. Ss'wd-kaAei) seems to indicate 
merely a Flat-Bushman. The noun ss'wd is also 
used separately to indicate ' a flat, a plain \ Other 
names of different kinds of Bushmen are I kdoken- 

• o 

ss'oAe 4 Bergbushmen ', sing, j kdo-ssoAkui, fern. 
\kdo-ssoAkuiAaiti , pi. Ikdo-ssoAe-taAkdgen. Similarly 
a Ss'wd-kaAkui is also called Ss'wa-ssdAkui , pi. 
Ss'wa-ssdAe. 

lb. ^ka affixed genitive particle, corresponding in value 

with English s , Hottentot -di. After a long vowel 
its consonant is pronounced more softly, almost 
like g, and after a short vowel more strongly, 
approaching to kk. After i and e (with or without 
an intervening nasal) this k (as well as that of most 
other particles beginning with this letter) is, in this 
Bushman dialect, commuted into t. 

lc. lyam-kaAkuiten the Bushman, nominative from 

\%am-kaAkui , with the ending - ken f the k of which 
(according to the just-mentioned rule) after i and e 


PARSING. 


145 


of the eggs, because his children they indeed are. 
Therefore, he also takes care of them, that he may 
drive away the jackal, that the jackal may not kill 
his children, ( ) that he may kick the jackal with (1206) 
his feet. 


is commuted into L The noun \ kui 4 man 9 is very 
irregular in its declension : 

Singular. 

Acc. (& Nom.) \Jcui 4 man '. 


Nominative 

Genitive 

Vocative 

Alterative 


I huiten 4 man 


I kuita 4 man's 




! kuwe 4 0 man ! ' 

! kuko 4 another man '. 

Plural. 

Acc. (& Nom.) j (k)e or lei 4 men '. 

Nominative I (k)eten or Ifiiten 4 men'. 

Genitive \ (ic)eta 4 men's '. 

Vocative \ (Jc)auwe 4 0 men ! ' 

Alterative \{k)ekuiten 4 other men '. 

| \M 4 to kill '. Another form is I kd, used in the perfect 2. 
and subjunctive. 

toi 4 ostrich, ostriches ', the same in singular and plural 3. 

(nom. toiten , gen. toita 4 ostrich's ' or 4 ostriches' '). 
au a preposition with a very general meaning 4 with 4. 

reference to, with regard to, at, on', etc. 

\kwiten 4 eggs ', an irregular plural, the singular being 5. 
\kaui 4 egg ', which is thus declined : — 

Singular. 

Accusative \kaui 4 egg '. 

Nominative \kduiten 4 egg '. 

Genitive \ kaulta 4 egg's '. 

Alterative \kauikd 1 another egg '. 


L 


146 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Plural. 

Accusative \kwUen 'eggs 7 . 

Nominative \kwiten c eggs \ 

Genitive I kwitenta 4 eggs' '. 

Alterative I kwiten-kuiten 4 other eggs \ 

6. hah 4 he nominative, the ending -ken after a preceding 

nasal vowel being converted into h . This pronoun 
is thus declined : — 

Singular. 

Accusative ha or hd y ha-ha or ha-ha 4 he, she, it 
Nominative hah 4 he, she, it '. 

Genitive ha-ka or ha-ha-ka 4 his, her, its 

Plural. 

Accusative hi , hi or hi- hi 4 they, it, she '. 
Nominative hih 4 they, it, she '. 

Genitive hi-ta or hi-hi-ta 4 their, its, her '. 

7. \ne verbal particle, for the indicative and the 

imperative. 

8. I kammih ' to carry ', I kdmmih-ti i carries taking \ This 

is S kdmmih-ki in Plat-Bushman dialect, whilst the 
Brinkkop Bushmen say \kdmmin-\ki. 

9. \\a ' away, thither'. Yerbs of motion end generally 

either in sha ' towards, hither' or I! d, just as such 
Hawaiian verbs end either in mai ' hither' or aku 
' thither, away '. 

10. II ndih c house, home', gen. II naihta ' house's', pi. 

WnaiWnaih ' houses ', etc. 

11. he e conjunction 4 and ', really ( this (or then) it is '. 

12. I hdh nominative of I ha ' consort, wife, husband', the 

termination -ken after the very short vowel being 
usually contracted to -h ; yet one hears also I haken* 
The nouns indicating relationship, as well as those 
expressing members of the body, have generally 


'SD S 


PARSING. 


147 


the genitive before them without the genitive 
particle (~ka~). 

Thus h \ha ' my wife, or my husband \ 
a \hd ' thy wife, or thy husband 
ha I ha ' his wife, or her husband '. 

Wkabbo \hd ' Oud Jantje's wife '. 

The plural (or dual ?) is I haukengu ' husband and 
wife, consorts'. 

The verb ' to marry ' is I hah. 

Instead of ' wives ' the Bushman generally says 
' women, females ' I kagen, which is the irregular 
plural of \aiti ' female '. This noun I kdgen requires, 
however, always the genitive particle before it, as 
ha-ha \kdgen 'his women, or his wives'. 

ho 'to lift, pick up, take off'. 13. 

I ku ' hair, feathers ' singular and plural (nom. 14. 
" \kuken ) has the genitive without genitive particle 
before it. 

' which ', relative pronoun, plural of a . The latter 15. 
( a ) is used with reference to any noun which can 
be represented by ha or ha 'he, she, it', and the 
former (d) similarly with reference to such nouns 
as can be represented by hi or hi 'they, it, she'. 

The latter pronoun is not entirely restricted to 
the plural, but is also sometimes used where the 
noun to be represented seems clearly to be in 
the singular, as li naih 'house', etc., ttu 'skin'. 
¦This is probably the scanty remains of a former 
more extensive classification of nouns. 

sin verbal particle, indicating the past perfect or 16. 
pluperfect. 

I uhi 'inside', I uhi-ssho 'sit inside'. 17. 

>» ' • ° 

I ui ' thread made of ostrich sinews, also a sack or net 18. 
made of such thread '. 


148 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


19. mi the preposition above-mentioned (4) used as con- 

junction 4 on account of, because '. 

20. 'to take, possess, have', not to be confounded with I hi 
4 to kill '. But the former is also sometimes long I id. 

21. Wyauken 4 blood'. This noun is always a plural in 

Bushman, i.e. it is represented by hi and e. 

22. Wan or Waken 4 to go to ' or 4 to go and ', always followed 

by one or more other verbs. This appears to be 
a form of the verb I \cl 4 to go away ', of which 
another form is also We. The last form is likewise 
followed by another verb. 

23. \kgnn. 

24. 1 \ko 4 to put down, to place '. 

25. hi 4 to eat ', generally nasal hi. Another form (perfect 

and subjunctive) is ha or hd. 

2 $.eh-eii 4 flesh, meat, body', reduplication of eh , the 
plural of a 4 meat, flesh '. 

27. WgoWgo 4 a whirlwind ', WgoWgo-Qua 4 a little whirlwind '. 
"TThe ending -O ua forms diminutives in the singular, 

whilst in the plural this changes to -ka \kauken , 
i.e. the noun \kduken 4 children ' (plural of j khwa or 
\koa 4 child') with the genitive particle attached to 
the preceding noun, as WgokenWgoken-ka \kduken 
4 little whirlwinds ', literally 4 whirlwind's children '. 
This renders it probable that the ending -O ua is in 
its origin only a contraction of -ka \khwd , i.e. Akhwa 
4 child ' following a noun in the genitive. 

28. ss'a 4 come to '. This appears to be the respective 

form of the verb ssH 4 to come '. There are, besides 
this, two other terminations a to verbs (as remarked 
above), one indicating the perfect and the other 
the subjunctive. 

29. ts J u 4 to blow', tdu hho 4 blowing lift' or 4 to lift by 

Flowing ' or 4 to blow up '. 


PARSING. 


149 


toi \ku ' ostrich hair ' requires (as stated above) the 30. 
plural pronouns to represent it, but the diminutive 
toi-\ku-Qua * * * 4 little ostrich hair' demands the singular 
pronoun. 

kl (?) = \]a 'to take 

Wkaiten 4 to ascend ts'u \Jci Wkaiten ' blowing takes to 32, 

ascend i.e. ' to blow up 


I gwdyu ' heaven, sky '. 

33. 

fatten ' to fall '. 

34. 

\d 'along'. 

35. 

1 hin 'out, come out, go out'. 

fatten \ a 1 hin ' falling 36, 


along came out of 

went 


ttorri-ttorriya (apparently) perfect form, 'having 37 , 
whirled round.' 

II hoS ' fall down, come down 38. 

If 'to enter, go in, in, into 39. 

\Jchiva 'water, rain' (nom. \kwdken , gen. \khwaka), 40. 
not to be confounded with \Jfwd ' hartebeest, 
hartebeests ' (nom. Wwagen, gen. I k'wdga), nor 
with l kwd ' leg ' (nom. \ kwdgen, gen. \kwdga , pi. 
\kwa\kwd and \kiva\k?vdgen) y nor with \ kwd ' bone ' 
(nom. \kwdkken , gen. \kwakka , pi. \kwdgen ), nor 
with \khwd 1 the perfect and subjunctive forms of 
\khwi 'to break', nor with \khwd 'child' (nom. 
j khwah, gen. \ khwdka, pi. \kduken ); nor with \ kwa 
' gall ' (nom. . . . , gen. . . . ), nor with \^od 

4 pot ' (nom. . . . , gen. . . . ), nor with \ kwd 
' anger, to be angry '. 

There are still other words which an unaccustomed 
European ear could hardly distinguish from the above. 

I khwan \kann \khwd l&' wdAkwaka \kwd. 

• • o • • • • 

The child holding breaks hartebeest leg's bone. 

broke 1 

or ' The child breaks the bone of the hartebeest leg '. 


150 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


\khwd a \khuodi hah \kdnn \khwd Wwd 

Child which one it holding breaks hartebeest 

broke 

a \khwdl ha \kwa\kwdgen ka \kwdgen. 
which one its legs' bones, 
or 4 One child breaks the bones of the legs of one 
hartebeest '. 

\khwdqen \eta l^od. 

4 The water is in the pot '. 

I khwd 4 water ' is always used with plural pronouns 
(hi, e), as 

I khwd e \eta Wod. 

• • o 

4 The water which is in the pot '. 

41.11 ka 4 to be wet', not to be confounded with II khd 
'a stick' (nom. II khagen, gen. II khaga, pi. II khaiten), 
nor with II khd 4 lion, lions ' (nom. II khan, gen. 
II khaga), nor with Wkd 4 brother, elder brother ' 
(nom. II kan, gen. II kaka, pi. II kande), 

42. tin 4 round, about ', \e tin 4 being in, turning sur- 

rounded by'. 

43 . \ku verb substantive, auxiliary verb, or verbal particle, 

not to be confounded with I ku or I ku 4 hair ' (14). 

44. II ndu 4 be conscious, be aware, think '. 

45 (~ ' 

' VlJa i entering lie, lie in '. 

46 . di 4 to become ', also di (short vowel). 

47. \ki\ki 4 to get', reduplication of I ki (20). 

48. I kuken 'feathers', here evidently not nominative, but 

merely plural (14). 

49. \h6\ho 4 put on '. 

50. II ku 4 arm, wing' (nom. Wkiih, pi. WkuWkuh, ha WkuWkuh 

4 his wings ', etc.). 

51. tdS 4 to walk, to go '. 

52. I kdrra 4 to bask in the sun '. 


I CM- 


PARSING. 


151 


It kdo or II kau * * * 4 be mounted, upon ', I karra IS kdo tin 53. 

4 sitting be mounted around '. 

I du 4 ground, dust 5 (nom. ! Sun). 54. 

tatti probably for ta tti e 4 lie at the place which ',55. 
au ban ta tti or au ban tatti e 4 for, because etc. ; 
also au ha tatti e in some positions (?). 

\ndunko 4 yet, still 56. 

4 be, be equal to, be identical 5 , etc., not to be con- 57. 
founded with e 4 which 5 , the plural of the relative 
pronoun, of which the singular is #, whilst e has 
the same form in the singular and plural. 

91 Rotten 4 young feathers 5 . 58. 

\hodka ' black 5 (singular and plural). 59. 

gwai or -goal 4 male 5 , usually only used as suffix. In 60. 
the plural the noun affix -tulcen is used affixed to 
the preceding noun in the genitive. Thus toi gwai 
4 male ostrich 5 has in the plural toi ta tuken . In 
a similar manner the affix indicating the opposite 
sex, I aiti 4 female 5 (which is also used as an inde- 
pendent noun), is in the plural exchanged for the 
noun I kagen 4 mates, wives 5 with the genitive before 
it. Thus toi \diti 4 female ostrich 5 , and toi ta \kdgen 
4 female ostriches 5 . Regarding the plural of -Qua 
(which affix is never now used as an independent 
noun), which is also formed in a similar manner, 
vide 27. Thus toi-gwai-Qua 4 a little he ostrich 5 
has in the plural toi-ta tuken-ta \kduken 4 little he 
ostriches 5 . 

\kurruken\kurruken 4 to dry 5 , v. tr. The reduplication 61. 

seems, as in Hottentot, to imply, among other 
meanings, also a transitive or causative meaning. 

I na 4 head 5 (nom. I nan, gen. I nd-ka, pi. \na\ndh). 62. 

ts'i 4 back 5 (nom. . . . , gen. tsH-ta). \khwd-\na-tsH-ta j au 63. 

4 water's head's back's ground ', i.e . 4 water's bank '. 


152 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


64. se ' must auxiliary verb, standing usually between 

the pronoun of the subject and the verb, and is 
then most frequently to be translated 'that, in 
order that ', as a ke d, h se ha ' give me flesh, that 
I may eat '. 

65. \hau ' do afterwards, subsequently '. This is one of 

the verbs, which we should translate by adverbs. 
They are always followed as well as preceded by 
the subjective pronoun. Similarly II yd 'do again ' 
is construed. 

66. u ' away '„ 

67. -ka in \ kurruka and at the end of I kuken-ka \kduka 

stand either instead of the usual ending - ken or 
as a contraction for - ken-ka . The - ka probably is 
here a particle indicating the perfect, though it 
frequently indicates also the subjunctive. It is 
probably due to the influence of the consonant 
of tbis particle that the genitive particle in the 
diminutive has also the original k instead of the 
here more usual t. 

68. \ni\ni ' to unstiffen '. 

69. ta 'for' (conjunction). 

70. sHh. 

71. \kwdin\kwain 'to strengthen', causative of \ kwain 'to 

be strong, to get strong'. 

72. \nod\nod 'feet', pi. of \ nod 'foot' (nom. \nqdh , gen. 

\nod-ka\ not to be confounded with Ynwa ' arrow ' 
(nom. I nwdh, gen. \nwdka , pi. \nwa). \ nod ' foot 
has in the singular (as well as plural) always e 
'which' and M 'it' as its pronoun, whilst \ nwd 
' arrow ' has in the singular d ' which ' and ha ' it ' 
as its pronoun. 

73 Jca 'to think that '. 

7 4. j uhitte ' in lie ', i.e. ' lie in, be in '. 


PARSING. 


153 


I kioiten = toi ta \kuken , 4 ostrich's veldschoen,' the skin 75. 
covering its foot. 

\y6d\yod Ho strengthen', causative verb. 76. 

tin-ten 4 lying down', from td Ho lie down'. 77. 

\nd\na Ho harden', causative form of verb. 78. 

\kdyu 4 breast, chest ' (nom. \kdyuken , gen. I kdyuka, etc.) 79. 
has in the plural the irregular form \ka\katten-yu 
4 breasts, chests '. A similar plural form is that of 
J kau-ttu 4 belly ', which is \kau\kauten-ttu 4 bellies '. 
Wgorro 4 breastbone ' (nom. II gorroken, gen. II gorroka, 80. 


pi. Wg6tten\\gotten ) WgottenWgottaken). 


tad-tad 

81. 

i. 

82. 

\kqrru 4 bushes ' (blossoms ?). 

88. 

II hqh 4 to swallow '. 

84. 

© ho 4 plant, tree, wood, anything vegetable' 

(nom. 85. 

O hoken\ pi. O hogen. 


\kduken 4 children ' ; 

86. 


not to be confounded with 


(! kouken) Ho beat', I auken. 

\kdoken 4 stone '. 

\(k)auuken 4 body ', I aim ken or \ ouken. 

\du 4 ground '. 

! kWuken 4 Knorhaan, Otis Vigor sii\ 

9 

au , , 

\kdukaken \kduken \kMken \k{au)uken au I du. 

4 The children beat the Knorhaan's body on the 
ground.' 

$enn £ small, little', pi. of $erri. The adjectives of 87. 
size have in the plural different forms from the 
singular. Thus : 

I urn 4 short ', pi. Mitten ; 

I uitten 

\yowa 4 tall, high ', pi. \yo\yoka ; 


154 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


\kuiya ' great, large, big, stout 5 , pi. \Jcui\kuUa\ 
yduJci ts'erre ' not small 5 , pi. yauhi ts'dtten ; 
korre-korre 'round 5 , pi. korritten-korreten. 


This last is not exactly an adjective, but a noun 
indicating a ball or round thing. 

All other adjectives besides these of size have 
the same form in the singular and plural. 

88. \kwe ' wind 5 (nom. \kweten , gen. \ kweta). 

89. hod perfect of ho ' to lift up 5 . 

90. +Tor ' to think 5 (a Hottentot verb). 

91. ti e 'place which 5 or 'this place 5 , used for 'that 5 

after verbs of ... , like Hottentot. 


IV.— 43. 

L. 

THE VULTUBES, THEIR ELDER SISTER, 
AND HER HUSBAND. 

( Dictated , in 1879, by |han+kass'5, ivho had it from his mother , 

lxabbi-an.) 

(8351) tkui ha <5a ddd hi llka^ai au Ikui ; * hin Ine llna ba. 

Hi Ine !ku llnaii, hi llka^ai lha f Iki ssa wai, hi Iku 
(8352) bbai wai. He, ha ( ) llka^ai lha, hd Ine ll^kao hi, ha 
ha #kwai hi. 

=> 3 

He, ha$ llka^ai ha Ine h5 wai ttu, ha Ine Iku hi. 
Ha llka^ai hd Ine j^aua wai ttu, ha llka^ai Ine 
wwarra hi. 

(8351 5 ) * !kui laitiken a, hi dda hi Jjkaxai a. |kui faiti ||ku§h e Ixvre- 

Hna-ss'o jkui. 

f !xwe-||na-ss'o Ikm'ten |ku e. 

(8352 5 ) 1 Ha llkaxai llkuan Iku Jkwai, hih e f^kwaiya. 


THE VULTURES. 


155 


S yerri ' scratch '. 92. 

S yerriya 'scratch at, scratch for', etc. ti e ha 
sin \yerriya hi ' the place which he has scratched 
on it % i.e. ' the place on which he has scratched '. 

at 

Jcl ' to grow ' = Hottentot to'. 93. 

Mka ' make grow, let grow ' ( vide 61). 
se auxiliary verb (or verbal particle) ' that, in order 94. 
~that', standing between the pronoun and the 
verb, perhaps expressing ' must \ It is uncertain 
whether it is a form of the verb ss'a and ss'i 'to 
come '. 


IV.— 43. 

L. 

THE VULTUEES, THEIR ELDER SISTER, 

AND HER HUSBAND. 

The Vultures formerly made their elder sister of (8351) 
a person ; * they lived with her. 

They, when their elder sister's husband f brought 
(home) a springbok, they ate up the springbok. 

And their ( ) elder sister's husband cursed them, (8352) 
he scolded at them. 

And their J elder sister took up the skin of the 
springbok, she singed it. Their elder sister boiled 
the skin of the springbok, their elder sister took it 
out (of the pot). 

* A woman was the one of whom they made their elder sister. (8351') 
The woman was a person of the early race. 

f A man of the early race (he) was. 

f \han±kass'd explains the use of the singular form of the ( 8352 ') 
pronoun, here, in the following manner: " Their elder sister was 
one, they were many." 


156 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHM4N FOLKLORE. 


(8358) He ( ) hi ha Ine Ikelke-i* ttu ka tikentiken,f 
hi llm-g Ine kkonnkkonn llkho hi. Hi llka^ai lha 
ha tkwai hi, ti e, hi ta !!;£&, hi ha hi ha llka^ai, 
(8354) au wai ttu, au ( ) hi ik^dda ssih ha wdi en-en, hi 
ll^a, hi ha, hi ha llka^ai, au wai ttii. 

He, hi ha Ine jhariimi hi llka^ai Ihi, hi ha Ine k6a, 
(8355) hi ttdi lie tduken, hi Ine Ikuei Iki, hi ssueh. He ( ) 
hi ha Ine llwkoen ha llka^ai lha, hi ha Ine Jkaiiru-i ha 
llka^ai lha. 

Ha llka^ai lha ha Ine |hann. Ha ha Ine ll^a, ha 
lla Ikhf wai; ha Ine jgouj ki ssa wai. Hi ha Ine 
(8356) \\%kj hi ( ) ssa bbai wai. Hi llka^ai lha ha Ine 
#kwai hi. He, hi ha Ine Ihin, hi jhdu.§ 

Hi llkh^ai Ine Iku wdi ttu ; ha Ine j^auh wai ttu. 
(8357) Hi llka^ai Ine a a hi a, ( ) ttu-ka tiken-tiken, hi Ine 
kkonnkkonn llkho hi. 

D D 

Hd tiken e, hi llkd^ai lha, ha Ine llnati, jga'ue, hi 
llka^ai lhaii ha Ine kui, ha lha ddoa sse llna hi ha ; 
(8358) ha ssah llkoaken kail ha au ( ) jkou^u; ta, ha 
jkhoukuken-Opuonni || ta Iku bbai wai. H£ tiken e, 
laiti sse llna hi ha. Hd tiken e, laiti Iku-g Ine llna 
hi ha. 

(8353') * N llkuan +i, ti e, hi |wka|^ka llkuan e; au hi |nu ss'o 6a 

|ku |ke|ke-i tchuen i ttu; ta, hi |ku llkhoui. 

f Ha llkaxaiten a, ha ka ssih Ine a a hi, au wai ttii. 

(8355') t llkuan Ikammainya wai. 

(8356 ') § Au eh Iku llgwiya ; hi Iku ha llgwfya eh. 

(8358') || Sing. jkauki-Opua. 


THE VULTURES. 


157 


And ( ) they were taking hold* * * § of the pieces of (8853) 
skin,f they swallowed them down. Their elder 
sister's husband scolded them, because they again, 
they ate with their elder sister, of the springbok's 
skin, when ( ) they had just eaten the body of the (8354) 
springbok, they again, they ate with their elder 
sister of the springbok's skin. 

And they were afraid of their elder sister's husband, 
they went away, they went in all directions, they, 
in this manner, sat down. And ( ) they looked (8355) 
at their elder sister's husband, they were looking 
furtively at their elder sister's husband. 

Their elder sister's husband went hunting. He 
again, he went (and) killed a springbok; he brought 
the springbok home, slung upon his back.J They 
again, they ( ) came (and) ate up the springbok. (8356) 
Their elder sister's husband scolded them. And they 
moved away, they sat down.§ 

Their elder sister singed the springbok's skin ; 
she boiled the springbok's skin. Their elder sister 
was giving to them ( ) pieces of the skin, they were (8357) 
swallowing them down. 

Therefore, on the morrow, their elder sister's 
husband said that his wife must go with him ; she 
should altogether eat on ( ) the hunting ground ; (8358) 
for, his younger sisters-in-law were in the habit of 
eating up the springbok. Therefore, the wife should 
go with him. Then, the wife went with him. 


were 


not (8353') 


* I think that it was (with) their hands, if they 
taking hold of things with their mouths ; for, they flew. 

f Their elder sister was the one who had been giving to them 
of the springbok's skin. 

J Carried the springbok. (8355') 

§ When the meat was finished ; they had eaten up the meat. (8356') 


158 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Hd tiken e, hi* ha Ine llnau, ha llka^aiten Ine 

(8359) ttdiya, ( ) hih M Ine Ihin llnein,t hih Ine \gw& ssih 
llnein ? $ he, hi ha Ine Iwkkbbe, !. Hin hd Ine kui, 
jkukkk a hah ha Ine kui: U A kan sse llkaiten, he, 

(8360) a-g Ine ssan tkakka ssi, ( ) ti e, ti ss'o Ikue, i." He 
jkukko ha Ine kui : " Ilka^ai-Opua § kah a, sse ttattk ; 
hd e, ha Ine +kdkka hi." Hd e, Ikui a, e Ikui Ikuiia- 
Opua, ha hd Ine ui, hah Ine llkaiten. 

(8361) ( ) Hih hd ka: u Ika hi, i sse ll^kodn, ti e ll^a- 

©pua sse Ikuei Iki, I." Hd tiken e, ha ha Ine kiii, 
4kubbu ssih Ilk !gwa^u,|| hih Tauki Ine kkdttau 
In! ha. 

(8362) Hih Ikurg Ine jhauwa; hih Iku ta-i ( ) llwke a hi 
ll^a-Opua ssan llkhde a. H d tiken e, ha ll^d-Opua 
ha Iku-g hie tatten jk'a Ihih jgwa^n, hah Iku Ine 
jkhou ssih hi ta kammah. 

(8363) He hi ha Iku Ine ( ) kui: U A! ti ^a te u?" 
He, ha ll^a-Opua ha Ine kui: "X Ilka a kah Iku 
ssi llkaiten, ha ssi Iku IS^koen. Ta, ti llkuah llkhoa, 

(8364) i kwah Ini tss'a, au i jk'a ( ) Una." 

Hd tiken e, ha llka^ai a jkuila jkkrri, ha ha Ine ui, 
hah Ine llkaiten, hah Ine kui, tkiibbu ssih Ilk Sgwa^u. 

(8358') * Ikm. r 

(8359 ? ) f Hi llka^ai-ta llneih, a hi ssih ||na hi llkaxai a. 

Hi llkuah tatti, hi Iku e jk'e. 

(8360') § jkui latti-Opui. 

(8361') II The narrator thus explains the expression tkubbu ssin lla 
Igwa^n = yauki Ine Ini ha " did not perceive her ". 

(8363') H Ha llka^ait^n a, ha fkakka ha. 


THE VULTURES. 


159 


Therefore, they,* * * § when their elder sister had 
gone, ( ) they went out of the house, f they sat (8359) 
down opposite to the house, X and they conspired 
together about it. They said, this other one said: 
u Thou shalt ascend, and then thou must come to 
tell us ( ) what the place seems to be like." And (8360) 
another said: " Little sister § shall be the one to try; 
and then, she must tell us." And then, a Yulture 
who was a little Yulture girl, she arose, she ascended. 

( ) They said: " Allow us, that we may see what (8361) 
little sister will do." Then, she went, disappearing 
in the sky, they no longer perceived her. 

They sat; they were awaiting ( ) the time at (8362) 
which their younger sister should descend. Then, 
their younger sister descended (lit. fell) from above 
out of the sky, she (came and) sat in the midst 
of them. 

And they ( ) exclaimed : u Ah ! What is the place (8363) 
like ? " And their younger sister said : " Our mate || 
who is here shall ascend, that she may look. For, 
the place seems as if we should perceive a thing, 
when we are above ( ) there." (8364) 

Then, her elder sister who was a grown up girl, 
she arose, she ascended, she went, disappearing in 


* The Vultures. (83580 

f Their elder sister's house, in which they had been living with ("8359 M 
their elder sister. 


1 They felt that they were people. 

§ A little girl. 

|| Her elder sister was the one of whom she spoke. 


(8360 ? ) 

(83630 


160 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Han M Ine iku tdtten Ik'a Ihin, hah Ine Iku Ikhou ssih 
(8365) ( ) Ik'e-kkuiten-ta * kamman. 

He Ik'e-kuiten ha Ine kui: u Ti te u?" He ka 
ha Ine km : " Ti llkuah ^aiiki te u ; ta, ti Iku 

D o D 7 7 

(8366) ssuassukraken. Tiken Iku aken llweiya; ta, n ( ) 
Sku tl^koen ti-ta ku ; Ohoken t liikenluken, h Iku 
Stwkoen hi ; tiken llkuah llkh<5a i kwan Ini w&i, au wai 

7 o o D 7 

yk Ikota Oho ; ta, ti Iku aken llweiya.' 7 
(8367) He tiken e, hi ha Iku-g Ine llkoaken ( ) ui, hf-ta 
ku, hi n Iku-g Ine llkalten !gwa^u,J au hi h ta, ha 
llka^ai sse kwah ha ; ta, hi llka^ai lha tkwai hi. 

He tiken e, hi ha ka ssih llnau, au hi louwi hi 
(8368) Hka^ai lha ssa, ( ) hi ha ha ssi llkakenllkaken. Hi 
ha ka : u U koa hi, u koa hi, u koa ha ssi llkdken- 
llkaken, ta, ha Inti Ikui ha Ike ssa, ha ^auki ssih ddda 
(8369) jki i,» He, hi ha Ine bhai wdi, hi hd Ine llkhou ( ) 
fik'ui, j^uahha Jk'ui, hi Ine Ikuei Iki, hi kail \kh6 lla ; 
au ha llka^ai lha, M Ine ssa, hh Jkwagen. 

Hi ha llnau, hi Ina wai, hi llkhoe, he ha llka^ai Ine 
(8370) ini hi, ha llka^ai ( ) Ine llkauken § Ikahi lla hi. Hi 
ha hi, hi, hi Igoa-i; hi ha ka: "TJ kod hi, u ssih 


!gsa-i, 

u ssah Iki jkwihya llka^ai, u ssah 

(8365') 

* Ikui. 

o 

(8366') 

f Ohoken jkejketten. 

(8367') 

t Au Lin tatti, hi |ku Ine llkoaken ddi Ikui. 

(8370') 

9 9 ° ° 

§ Ikuiten |ku e, i llkauken hi. 


THE VULTURES. 


161 


the sky. She descended from above, she sat ( ) in (8365) 
the midst of the other people.* * * § 

And the other people said : " What is the place 
like ? " And she said: " There is nothing the matter 
with the place ; for, the place is clear. The place 
is very beautiful; for, I ( ) do behold the whole (8366) 
place; the stems of the trees, t I do behold them; 
the place seems as if we should perceive a springbok, 
if a springbok were lying under a tree ; for the place 
is very beautiful." 

Then, they altogether ( ) arose, all of them, they (8367) 
ascended into the sky, if while they wished that 
their elder sister should eat; for, their elder sister's 
husband scolded them. 

Therefore, they used, when they espied their elder 
sister's husband coming, ( ) they ate in great haste. (8368) 
They said: "Ye must eat! ye must eat! ye must 
eat in great haste ! for, that accursed man who 
comes yonder, he could not endure us." And, they 
finished the springbok, they flew ( ) away, flew (8369) 
heavily away, they thus, they yonder alighted ; 
while their elder sister's husband came to pick up 
the bones. 

They, when they perceived a springbok, they 
descended, and their elder sister perceived them, 
their elder sister ( ) followed them up.§ They ate, (8370) 
(they) ate, they were looking around; they said: 

"Ye must eat; ye should look around; ye shall 
leave some meat for (our) elder sister; ye shall 


* The Vultures. (8365') 

f Large trees. (8366') 

J While they felt that they altogether became Vultures. (8367') 

§ Yultures are those which we follow up. f8370'l 


M 


162 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Slka^ai lkuditen, # au u ll^kodn, ti e, llka^ai a ssa." 
(8371) ( ) He, hi M Ine louwi hi llka^ai ssa, hi hd Ine kui: 

/ ^ f 

u llka^aiten tiiko llkhoa Ike ssa, u koa sse kwd eh ya 
llna wdi ttu."f He, hi ha Ine kwe. He, hi ha llnau, 
(8372) hi llwkoen, ( ) ti e, hi llka^ai Ine Iko ssa au hi, hi Ine 
k6a, hi ttdi lie toiiken. 

' D o 

f t f f 

Hi llka^ai ha In 6 ta : u Oeya ! Tsa-ra u ddoa Ine 

Ikuei >ha au h a, u h a ssin +kwai ii ? " 

(8373) He hi llka^ai ( ) ha Ine jkhe ssa wdi, haj Ine h6 

wai, ha Ine jkuiten, au Ikul Iku Ine jk'ui, hi Iku-g 
/ / 

Ine llkhouwa ttih lla, au hi Iku Ine llgdue wai-ko, a hi 
ta, ll^a hi ha ha. 


IV.— 37. 

L. 

DDI-*ERRETEN, THE LIONESS, AND THE 
CHILDREN. 

{Related, in January, 1879, by Ihan^kass'o, who heard it from his 
maternal grandmother, :f:kammi, and , when older, from his mother, 
lxabbi-an.) 

(8177) Ddi-^erreten § llkuah hd (5a llnau, llkh| llkuaraken 
llna Iklioa, lkuenya,|| hah Ine Slah Ikuen llna; Ddi- 

(8370 J ) * Eh llkuah e ; Ikuaitaken e jkajkatta ikha Ikha. 

(8371') t Hi lku° ha ll^ke tk. 

(8373') J Hi llka^ai, Ikul llka^ai. 

(8177') § jxwe-llna-ss'o [kui kan Iku e. 

Ha Inah ha oa |kii e jkou. 

|| N llkuah +1, ti e, ha ss'o oa Ikuen Iki Ikhwai-ta Ikoa ; ta, ha 
llkuah IkhI Ikhwai. 


DDl-^EREETEN. 


163 


leave for (our) elder sister the undercut,* when ye 
see that (our) elder sister is the one who comes.' 7 
( ) And they perceived their elder sister coming, they (8371) 
exclaimed: " Elder sister really seems to he coming 
yonder, ye must leave the meat which is in the 
springbok's skin." f And, they left (it).$ And, when 
they beheld ( ) that their elder sister drew near to (8372) 
them, they went away, they went in all directions. 

Their elder sister said : " Fie ! how can ye act 
in this manner towards me ? as if I had been the 
one who scolded you ! " 

And their elder sister ( ) came up to the springbok, (8373) 
she § took up the springbok, she returned home ; 
while the Vultures went forward (?), they went to 
fly about, while they sought for another springbok, 
which they intended again to eat. 


IV.— 37. 

L. 

DDI-^ERRETEN, THE LIONESS, AND THE 
CHILDREN. 

Ddi-j(erreten,\\ formerly, when the Lioness was at (8177) 
the water, dipping up,^] (when) she had gone to dip 


* It is meat; the I kuditen is that which lies along the front of (8370') 
the upper part of the spine. 

The word I Icuaiten, translated here as " undercut " (in accordance 
with the description of its position), hears some resemblance to that 
given for "biltong flesh ", in the Katkop dialect, by DiaYkwain, 
which is I hwgtii. 

f They ate the skin together (with the meat). (8371') 

J It is possible that the pronoun hi may have combined with the v 

verb here. 

§ Their elder sister, the Vultures' elder sister. (8373') 

|| A man of the early race he was. His head was stone. (8177') 

If I think that she probably dipped up water with a gemsbok's 
stomach ; for she killed gemsbok. 


164 SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

(8178) ^erretaken tatti e, llklia a jkannjkann ( ) llwkeya jk'e- 

* % 

ta jkaiiken, an llkhan tatti, llkha e llosa, a llnwamtn ; 
he tiken e, ha Ine Ikannlkann II wke Ik'e-ta I ka liken, 
(8179) jkahka ssin llna ha, jkahka ssin ( ) dda ha a; ta, ha 
e llosa, he ha yahki ddi Igi tchueii. 

He tiken e, Ddi-^erreten Ine lla ha llneih, an hah 
Iknenya. Ddi-^erretaken Ine jkoh ttin ha, an llneih, 
(8180) ( ) Ddi-^erretaken Ine lla jkaiiken, an llneih. Ddi- 
^erretaken ha Ine lla Inein, jkhe lla jkahken. Ddi- 
yerretaken ha Ine ssnen. He Ddi-yerreten M Ine 
(8181) kkrii: ( ) " jkahken-Opnondde wwe ss'o ! IJ-ka jk'e- 
ta li tan e, Ikolko jkheya, jkuirri a Iko jkhe ssa." He 
tiken e, Ikanken e Ikii, hi ha Ine hi. hin Ine Ikam lla, 
(8182) hi-ta ( ) jk'e. 

Ddi-^erretaken ha Ine \\j(k hah kni : u jkahken- 
Opnondde wwd ss'5 ! IJ-ka jk'e-ta li kah e jkdujkou 
Ikheya Iknirri a Ik' oil Ikhe." He Ikanken e ha Ine 
(8188) Hkhoh jnnannah, hin ( ) Ine Iknei Iki, hin lla, an hin 
Ikam lla hi-ta Ik'e. 

o • 

He, ha ha Ine Il;j4, han kin : u jkhwa-Opna wwe 
ss'o ! A-ka jk'e-ta li kah e, jkoujkon jkheya jknirri a 
(8184) jk'oh jkhe ssa." He ( ) jkhwa M Ine hi, hah Ine 
Iknei Iki hah lla, an Ikhwah Ikam lla ha-ka Ik'e. 

o ' * o * 

Hah ll^a hah kui : " jkaiiken- Opnohdde wwe ss'o ! 
IJ-ka jk'e-ta li kah e jkdhjkoh # jkheya, jkuirri f 


(8184') 


* An Ban tatti, llnein llkhoe ss'o jkuirri. 
f Hail ll^ainki +kakken jkulrri-kko. 


DDI-^ERRETEN. 


165 


up water there, Ddi-yerreten felt that the Lioness 
was the one who had gathered ( ) together the (8178) 
people's children, because the Lioness felt that she 
was an invalid on account of (her) chest; therefore, 
she gathered together the people's children, that the 
children might live with her, that the children might 
( ) work for her; for, she was an invalid, and she (8179) 
could not do hard work. 

Therefore, Ddi-^rreten went to her house, when 
she was dipping up water. Ddi-yerreten went in 
her absence to the house, ( ) Ddi-y6rreten went to (8180) 
the children, at the house. Ddi-y6rreten went to the 
house reaching the children. Ddi-j^ri'eten sat down. 

And Ddi-y&rreten said : ( ) ce 0 children sitting here ! (8181) 
The fire of your people is that which is at the top 
of the ravine which comes down from the top (of the 
hill)." Therefore, two children arose, they went 
away to their own ( ) people. (8182) 

Ddi-j^rreten again said: " 0 children sitting here ! 

The fire of your people is that which is below the 
top of the ravine which comes down on this side 
(of the hill)." And three children # ( ) thus went, (8188) 
while they went away to their own people. 

And he again said: "0 little child sitting here! 

Thy people's fire is that which is below the top of 
the ravine which comes down on this side (of the 
hill)." And ( ) the child arose, it thus went, while (8184) 
the child went away to its own people. 

He again said : " 0 children sitting here ! The 
fire of your people is that which is below f the top 


* Literally, "children which became three." 

f Because the house is in the ravine ( i.e ., not where the water /^S 1 84 ? 
flows, hut among the bushes). ^ 


166 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8185) a ( ) jk'ou jkhe ssa." He jkauken ha Ine llkhou 
jkuken, hih Ine m i, hin Ine Ikuei Iki, hih lla, au hih 
Ikam lla hi-ta Ik'e. 

o • 

He, ha ha Ine ll^a hah kui : " jkauken- 0pnohd.de 
(8186) wwe ss'o ! ( ) U-ka jk'e-ta li kan e, Ikolko jkheya, 
Ikuirri a Iko Ikh6 ssa." He Ikauken ha Ine llkhou 

• o • *03 

jkuken, hin Ine ui, hin Ine Ikuei Iki, hin lia.' 

He, ha ha Ine ll^a hah kui: " jkauken- Opuohdde 
(8187) ( ) wwe ss'o! U-ka jk'e-ta li kail e, Ikolko jkheya 
Ikuirri a Iko Ikh6 ssa." He Ikauken e Inuanna, hi 

•o • • o ' • o / 

ha Ine ui, hih Ine Ikuei Iki, hin lla ; au hi h Ikam lla 

D ' o 7 7 o 

hi-ta jk'e. 

(8188) ( ) He, ha ha Ine ll^a, hah kui: u jkauken-Opuondde, 

wwe ss'o ! * U-ka jk'e-ta li kan e > Ikolko jkheya, jkui'rri 
a Iko Ikh6 ssa." He Ikauken e Iku, hi ha Ine ui, 
(8189) hin Ine ( ) Ikuei Iki, hih lla; au hih Ikam lla hl-ta 
jk'e; au Ddi-^erretaken ha Ine jka ss'6, au llkha 
llkuara. 

o 

He llkha llkuara ha Ine Ihin Ikhoa, hah ha Ine Ikuei 

3 'o 3 • o 1 ^ o o 

(8190) iki, hah jkuiten ssa. Hah ha ( ) ttai-tau ll^ko6nya 
ssa ; hah ^auki Ini Ikauken. He ha ha Ine kiii : 

/ • o d 

A t t f 

u Tss'a ra a Ikauken Ikauken Ikauken Ikauken, Ika'uka 
(8191) ^a tte Ika ka? he jkauken ^au dda ti e, jkauken ( ) 
ka llgwi'ten llna ? He yod e jkui a ss'o llneih, ha Ina 
Ine llkhoa Ddi-^6rreten,t I." 

He ha ha Ine jha, i, au hah ka ha Ini Hdi-^erreten.J 

(8188') * Ha-ka jka'ukaken yauki llna; ta, jk'e-ta jkauken Iku e, 

ha Iki hi. 

(8191 ') f Han Iku +enna ha. 

J Au hah tatti, ha ya'uki |ni jkauken. 


DDI-^ERRETEN. 


167 


of the ravine * which ( ) comes down on this side (8185) 
(of the hill)." And two children arose, they thus 
went away, while they went away to their own 
people. 

And he again said: u O children sitting here! 

( ) Your people's fire is that which is at the top (8186) 
of the ravine which comes down from the top 
(of the hill)." And two children arose, they thus 
went away. 

And he again said : " 0 children ( ) sitting here ! (8187) 
The fire of your people is that which is at the top 
of the ravine which comes down from the top (of the 
hill)." And three children arose, they thus went 
away ; while they went away to their own people. 

( ) And he again said: " O children sitting here ! t (8188) 
The fire of your people is that which is at the top 
of the ravine which comes down from the top (of 
the hill)." And two children arose, they ( ) thus (8189) 
went away; while they went away to their own 
people ; while Ddi-j^erreten sat waiting for the 
Lioness. 

And the Lioness came from the water, she thus 
returning came. She ( ) came along looking (at the (8190) 
house) ; she did not perceive the children. And she * 
exclaimed : " Why do the children (stammering with 
rage) children children children, the children not do 
so to me ? and the children do not play here, as they 
( ) are wont to do? It must be this man who sits (8191) 
at the house ; his head resembles Ddi-yerreten ." $ 

And she became angry about it, when she perceived 


* He speaks of another ravine. 

f Her children were not there ; for the people's children were 
those whom she had. 
t She recognized him. 


(8184') 

(8188') 

(8191') 


168 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8192) Han ha Ine kkii'i : " Ddi-^erreten ( ) likuan ddoa a 
ss'o ! " Hah ha Ine ttdi Ikhd ssa llnem. Hah hd Ine 

D o • D 

kui : u Ine lauwaki Ikauken." He Ddi-verreten hd 

• O /t- O 3 

Ine kii'i : u I-i-ta Ikaiiken kwd 6a dd6a Ine e." He 

• ° z> o 

(8193) Nkhk hd Ine ( ) kui: " Oeya ! Ine £6a ! a-g Ine 

9 f f 

lauwake a Ikaiiken ! " Ddi-verretaken ha Ine kill : 

• Q /w— o o 

X 

u I-i-ta Ikaiiken likuan ^auki 6a dd6a e." 

• O O D D 

V V ^ __ 

He llkha ha Iku-g Ine Ikei ha Ina. Hah hd Iku Ine 
(8194) kui : * ( ) " ^dbbahbu ! " au jkukko Ina. He ha hd 
Iku-g Ine kui : u Ouuuu ! li ! li ! li ! Ii ! n llkeillkei ! 
He ti, hi kan >6 a e, Inii jkui a, ha Ina gwai ssah 
(8195) Ilkh6 ki jk'aiih ss'o ii-ka llnem ! ( ) Au Ddi- 
^erretaken hd Ind ta : I Ikudn l^keya ha, ti e, 1 - 1 - 

ta Ikauken yaiiki 6a ddoa e." llkha hd kui: " la ! 

• o r> d d 

u # f • ^ f 

A kan y<5 a dd6a a, Ina gwai ssah llkho ki ss'o." u I-i- 
(8196) ta jkauken f ( ) likuan ^aiiki oa ddoa e." 

He, ha hd Iku-g Ine ui, hah Iku-g Ine jkuiten ; au 
llkhah Iku-g Ine luaitenluaita ss'o ha-ka llnein; ti e. 

D O O O j 9 

(8197) ha kwon Iku ssan, ( Iki ttaiya ha jkauken, e ssih 
Iku kkweya au ha ; au hah tdtti, ha ssih Iku ddi 
dkken Iki jkauken, hah yaiiki ttamOpua kkoka jkauken, 
au ha lya. 


(8193 ^ 
(8195') 


# jgaiinu le a Ina. 
f Ddi-verretaken a jkuei' dda. 


DDl-^ERRETEN. 


169 


Ddk-y&rreten* * * § She exclaimed: " Ddi-yerreten ( )(8192) 
indeed (?) sits here!" She walked up to the house. 

She exclaimed : " Where are my children ? " f And 
Ddi-yerreten said: "Our children (they) are not." 

And the Lioness ( ) exclaimed: "Out on thee ! (8198) 
leave off ! thou must give me the children ! " 
Ddi-yerreten said : " Our children (they) were not." 

And the Lioness caught hold of his head. She 
exclaimed : ( ) " j(dbbabbu " J (growling) to the other (8194) 
one's head. And she exclaimed : " Oh ! Oh dear ! 

Oh dear ! Oh dear ! Oh dear ! my teeth ! This must 
be why this cursed (?) man's big head came to sit in 
front of my house!" ( ) While Ddi-yerreten said: (8195) 
" I told thee that our children they were not." The 
Lioness exclaimed: "Destruction! Thou hast been 
the one whose big head came to sit (here)." " Our 
children § ( ) (they) were not." (8196) 

And he arose, he returned (home) ; while the 
Lioness sat in anger at her house; because he had 
come (and) ( ) taken away from her the children, (8197) 
who had been (living) peacefully with her ; for she 
felt that she had done well towards the children; 
she did not a little love the children while she was 
doing so. 


* Because she did not perceive the children, 

f The narrator's translation of \ne Xmwaki Wcaulcen was " Where 
are my children?" but "Give me the children" or "Show me 
the children " may he verbally more accurate. 

X Growling put in the head. 

§ Ddi-xerreten was the one who spoke thus. 


(8191') 

(8194') 

(8195') 


170 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IV.— 47. 

L. 

THE MASON WASP * AND HIS WIPE. 

{Dictated, in June , 1878, hy Ihan+kass'o, who heard it from his 

\ 

mother , lxabbi-an.) 

(7098) jgabbakenjgabbaken f ban ha llnau, au hah ttai lla, 
au laitiken Ine ttai Ikunss'o ha, laitiken ha kui : 
" N lha wwe ! I^a hoa ke, loa a." He jgabbaken- 
(7099) jgabbaken ( ) ha Ine tte llkhwai, i; jgabbaken- 
jgabbakaken ha Ine kui: u loa yd dde ? " He laiti 
ha Ine kui: " loa kah a ta." 

D D 

He jgabbakenjgabbaken ha Ine Iki Ihin jnwa, i; 
(7100) Jgabbaken jgabbakaken Ine Ikuei ( ) Iki, han +nammi 
lia.t He laiti ha Ine kui: " Ine llkhda Inuin ! Tsa 

T D • o 

ra fa d, a ^au ka ka, a llkho jnuih ? " H£ tiken e, 
jgabbakenjgabbakaken Ine ttaittaiya, ti kau kuerre 
(7101) jnuih I^ka; hah Ine llkho jnuih. ( ) H£ tiken e, 
laiti ha Ine kui: " A f&d ddda lkuei-u?S H4 tiken 

3 D D o «J o 

y<5a e, a ^auki ta ka, a kwan llkho jnuih, I." 

H4 tiken e, jgabbakenjgabbaken ha Iku Ine ttai, 
(7102) ttih j^uohni; hah ( ) Iku-g Ine kakauaken laiti, hah 
Iku-g Ine kui, tt^aii, ^abbu tte jguara au laiti jka^u. 
He laiti Iku-g Ine jkou ttin, T. Hd tiken e, ha ha 
(7103) Ine kui : u Yi ii hihi ! N lha we hi ! " u ha ^au ( ) 
Iku. a \yl laiti. Hah Ine >*w a, ti e, ha fod Iku Ikuei 
Iki, hah Iku l^i laiti ; laitiken Iku Ine Ikuken. 


(7098') 

(7100') 

(7101') 


* jgabbakenjgabbaken llkhoa +kakken-llkho-ttunu. 
f Ha llkuan ha oa e jkui ; he tiken e, ha llkuan |ki Ihou; 
he tiken e, ha llknan Ine Ixi laiti, au hah yau Iku Ixa ho jnau. 

J I llkuan ka Jk'oan I la, au i ta, loa ssin Ine kkwe, jxe ta. 

§ Ha llkuan kkuirriten gwai, au gwai jkauogen-ka ti e jkhou, 
he yhetten+het-ta ; hih e, ha kkuirriten gwai, I. 


THE MASON WASP. 


171 


IY.— 47. 

L. 


THE MASON WASP * * * § AND HIS WIFE. 


The Mason Waspt formerly did thus as he (7098) 
walked along, while (his) wife walked behind him, 
the wife said: u 0 my husband! Shoot for me 
that hare ! " And the Mason- Wasp ( ) laid down (7099) 
his quiver; the Mason Wasp said: " Where is 
the hare?" And (his) wife said: u The hare lies 
there." 

And the Mason Wasp took out an arrow ; the 
Mason Wasp in this manner ( ) went stooping along.J (7100) 
And the wife said : " Put down (thy) kaross ! Why 
is it that thou art not willing to put down (thy) 
kaross ? " Therefore, the Mason Wasp, walking 
along, unloosened the strings of the kaross ; he put 
down the kaross. ( ) Therefore the wife said : (7101) 
" Canst thon be like this ? § This must have been 
why thou wert not willing to lay down the 
kaross." 

Therefore, the Mason Wasp walked, turning to one 
side ; he ( ) aimed at (his) wife, he shot, hitting the (7102) 
(head of) the arrow on (his) wife's breast || (bone). 


* The Mason Wasp resembles the Palp ares and Lilellula. It (7098') 
has a small body. The Mason Wasp flies, and is to be seen in 
summer near water ; I han^lcass'd has seen it in our garden at 
Mowbray. It is rather smaller than the Palpares and Lilellula. 

t He was formerly a man ; therefore, he had a bow ; therefore, 
he shot his wife, when he had not shot the hare. 

t We are accustomed to go along stooping, when we wish that ("7100') 
the hare may quietly lie hidden (knowing that people are at hand ; 
lying still, thinking that it will be passed by). 

§ She mocked at the man on account of the middle of the man's f71 Q1 ? ) 
body, which was slender ; hence she mocked at the man. ' 

|| i.e. breaking her breastbone. (7102') 


172 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


And (his) wife fell down dead on account of it. Then 
he exclaimed: " Yi u hihi ! 0 my wife Al!" (crying) 
( 7103 ) as if he had not ( ) been the one to shoot (his) wife. 
He cried, that he should have done thus, have shot 
his wife ; his wife died. 


Q 


( m tai tchu e. 

* i My mother's hut it is; 

( m bd tchu 

2 | My fathers hut it is. 

S m j huh I nu-k, \umct Wne & tchu $• 
My grandfather's, the big \uma's, 
hut it isc 

1 . 





6 . 


4 

5 

6 


( t ikiiske | \n& & tchii <*. 

( The big grandmother's hut it is. 

t 

( \\gu lea 6, 6 ti shin , 

( The water which we drink. 

t ft 

j Gdha Wgii, Gdba \\hhumm . 

( The Makoba's water. 



luma, Oct. 3 rd, 1881 . 





BUSHMEN. 


From the Breakwater 



' 



Legends, 


174 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


V.— [37. 

B. 

THE YOUNG MAN OF THE ANCIENT RACE, 
WHO WAS CARRIED OFF BY A LION, 
WHEN ASLEEP IN THE FIELD. 

( Dictated , in 1875, in the Katkop dialect, by Dfa!kw|in, who had it 
from his mother , +kamme-an.) 

(4457) Jkui ^auddoro a hha oa jhan'n Ilkalten I la ll^au ; 

hail Ikii ddi kill tta Opuoin ; 6 han sso ko Jgoai, 
(4458) han Ikii ddi kii'i tta Opuoin. ( ) He ha hha kii-kkui, 
hah +1, ha ka ha sse a min tten ; ta, ha )Vuki ttamsse 
ddi kui tta Opuoih. Ta ; ttss'adde Inti a, ddi ha, o 
(4459) Slkoin-ta ti 6? ti e, ( ) ha >*auki amin ka Ikuei tta. 

He ha tten, I ; he ha Opuoin, i, 6 ! I khan oa ttai 
ssa; han j^u SI a, 6 llkuonnah Ikha ha, han ilk'oihya ; 
(4460) he ha Ini ( ) jkuiten Opuoin tta ; he ha hho Skui, i. 

He Ikui Ik'ahbe Ihih, i; he ha lauwi, ti e, I Ikha oa 
a hho wa. He ha ku-kkiii-ten il, ha ^auki sse 
(4461) ddarraken; ta, ( ) llkha ssan ttssi Ikha ha, o ha 

ddarraka; hah amin sse ll^koen, ti e llkha ka ha 

3 / D / D 

„ J, rn, ~ ~ 

Ikuei Ikuelkue, I ; ta, llkha llkuan Ikii llkho +i, ti e, 

o 0 0 / //DOD 7 7 

ha Ikuka. 

( ) He llkha Ikammainya 6 Ikhwakki ; he llkha 
jnau-tte ya, i. He llkha kii-kkui-ten +1, ha Ikii 


(4462) 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OEF BY LION. 


175 


V.— [37. 

B. 

THE YOUNG- MAN OF THE ANCIENT RACE, 

WHO WAS CARRIED OFF BY A LION, 
WHEN ASLEEP IN THE FIELD. 

A young man* * * § was the one who, formerly hunting, (4457) 
ascended a hill; he became sleepy; while he sat 
looking around (for game), he became sleepy. ( ) (4458) 
And he thought that he would first lie down; for 
he was not a little sleepy. For what could haye 
happened to him to-day ? because ( ) he had not (4459) 
previously felt like this.f 

And he lay down on account of it ; and he slept, 
while a lion came ; it went to the water, J because 
the noonday (heat) had "killed" it; it was thirsty; 
and it espied ( ) the man lying asleep ; and it took (4460) 
up the man. 

And the man awoke startled ; and he saw that 
it was a lion which had taken him up. And he 
thought that he would not stir ; for ( ) the lion (4461) 
would biting kill him, if he stirred ; he would first 
see what the lion intended to do; for the lion 
appeared to think that he was dead. 

( ) And the lion carried him to a z wart- storm (4462) 
tree § ; and the lion laid him in it.|| And the lion 


* He was a young man of the early race. (4457 J ) 

f It is evident, from another version of this legend, given by (4459') 
Ykweiten ta When (YI. — 2, pp. 4014-4025), that the unusual 
sleepiness is supposed to be caused by the lion. 

J To a water pit. 

§ This is described by the narrator as being a large tree, which (4462 J ) 
has yellow flowers and no thorns. 

|| The lion put the man half into the tree, at the bottom of it ; 
his legs were not in it. 


176 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


llkoinya, ha ha (kui ; han ani'm sse j£u, ha sse I la 
(4463) )"wa; ( ) ha sse ssa jhau ha ha, o ha >wa ; ta, ha 
Iku llk'oinya, ha hha. 

/ yj f 9 ~ 

He ha jk'oa le jkui Ina, o jkwaggen-ka jkau, i ; he 
(4464) ha ttai jkuonni, I. He jkui jkann ( ) kkui, gguerri 

-w ~ 9 f ^ 

a, Ina. He llkha jkwe I la, I ; t! e, ttssa dde I oil a, 

jkui Ina Iku ddarraken a, o ti e, ha ssin a mm +1 , ti e, 
(4465) ha jk'da llki jhda jkui Ina. ( ) He llkha ku-kkui-ten 
+1, ha oa yaiiki sso ddoa tte akka Ikui ; ta, Ikui lku-er 

j r—\ — • o / / • o O 

1 _ 9 V 9 ^ 

Ine ttatten ui. He ha ll^ah, Ik'oa ttchoo le jkui Ina, 
(4466) i, 6 jkwaggen-ka jkau, i. ( ) He ha tt'atten jkui 
tsa^alten-ka jkhwetyi, i. He jkui >wa, i; hin e, 
ha tt'atti jkui tsa^aiten. He jkui tta, ti e, Oho 
(4467) ^auki ttamsse liken jkhe ha llkhauru; he jkui ( ) 
ywanni ha Ina, i ; 6 hah ll^koeh WYi jhda, 6 llkha, 
han Swahili ha Ina. He llkha ll^koen, ttss'a a ti 
ddoa Iku >wah, Ikui a dddrraken. He ha tt'atten 

S3 7 o Do Do 


(4468) 

(4469) 


( ) jkui tsa^aiten-ka jkhwe-ten, I. He llkha ku-kkui, 
han +1, ha ka ha Ik'oa ttchoo kwo-kkwan Ikui Ina, ha 

i • 3 • o 7 

^ ^ %J 9 

sse llwkoen kwo-kkwah, ti e, ha Inu ( ) ddoa a, >auki 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


177 


thought that it would (continue to) he thirsty if it 
ate the man ; it would first go to the water, that 
it might go to drink; ( ) it would come afterwards (4463) 
to eat, when it had drunk; for, it would (continue 
to) he thirsty if it ate. 

And it trod, (pressing) in the man's head between 
the stems of the zwart-storm tree ; and it went back. 

And the man ( ) turned his head a little.* * * § And the (4464) 
lion looked back on account of it ; namely, why had 
the man's head moved ? when it had first thought 
that it had trodden, firmly fixing the man's head. 

( ) And the lion thought that it did not seem to have (4465) 
laid the man nicely ; for, the man fell over. And it 
again trod, pressing the man's head into the middle 
(of the stems) of the zwart-storm tree. ( ) And it (4466) 
licked the man's eyes' tears. t And the man wept ; 
hence it licked the man's eyes. And the man felt 
that a stick $ did not a little pierce the hollow at the 
back of his head; and the man ( ) turned his head (4467) 
a little, while he looked steadfastly § at the lion, he 
turned his head a little. And the lion looked (to see) 
why it was that the thing seemed as if the man had 
moved. And it licked ( ) the man's eyes' tears. And (4468) 
the lion thought it would tread, thoroughly pressing 
down the man's head, that it might really see whether 
it ( ) had been the one who had not laid the man (4469) 


* The tree hurt the hack of the man's head ; therefore he moved (4464') 
it a little. 

f The man cried quietly, because he saw himself in the lion's (4466') 
power, and in great danger. 

X The narrator explains that the stick was one of those pieces 
that had broken off, fallen down, and lodged in the bottom of 
the tree. 

§ The man looked through almost closed eyes; but watched to (4467 ? ) 
see if the lion remarked that he moved his head. 


178 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


tte-tte akken Skin. Ta, ti ddoa Iku Twah, Ikui a 
ddarraken. He Ikui ll^kden, ti e, ti Twan llkha llkL 

30 • O II 3 / 

(4470) ti e, ha iku ddga jk'auwa ; he ( ) ha Ta'uki Ine 

f ~ tt * ^ 

ddarraken, L o Ohoken kki-ssan llken-i ha. He llkha 
llkuah Ine Hwkdeh, ti e, ti-g Ine llkho, ha llkuah tte 
(4471) akka Ikui ; ta, Ikui llkuah Tauki Ine ( ) ddarraken; 
he ha ttai Ikhe lla, l ; he ha Ik we I la Ikui, i, o Ikuiten 
ttchu-ttehuruka ha tsa^aityi ; hah llwkdeh Iki llkhoe 
hho, o ha tsa;£alten-ka llgerre ; bah ll^koen, ti e, 
(4472) llkha ( ) Ikuei To, i. He llkha ttai, i, Hkaiten lla 
ll^au, l ; he llkha ttchoaken, i ; o Jkuiten ttamsse Jho 
j^uohni, ha Ina, o hah ka ha llwkdeh, ti e, llkha Inil 
(4473) Jkei Haugen, ttai. ( ) He ha ll^koen, ti e, llkha llkbp, 
llkha ttchdaki; he ha lauwi, ti e, llkha ll^ah, kkebbi, 
Ikhe ssa, o H^au Ina ttss'i ; o llkhah kail +i, ti ddga 

^ / f 9 

(4474) ssin Iku ( ) Twah jkui Iku ddda Ik'auwa; he tiken e, 

ha amm ka ha, ll^a ha llwkoen kwo-kkwah. Ta, ti 

(4475) Iku ttah ikui Iku ka ha u ; ta, ha Iku dd^a TT, ti e, ( ) 

Ikui ddda Iku Ikuken ddau-ddau. He ha llkuah Ine 

llwkoeh, ti e, ikui llkuah Snauhkko tta ; he ha ku-kkui, 

(4476) hah +1, ha ka ha sse orriiko jkii^e ( ) Jkhwa, ha sse 

lla Twa; ha sse ll^a ha kah orruko Ihin sse, ha sse 

ssa hha. Ta, ha llkah-a ; hah a Taiiki ttamsse 
/ - — ___ ~ 

llk'dihya ; hd tiken e, ha a min ka ha lla Twa, ha 

(4477) ( ) sse ssa, Jhau ha hha ; o ha Twa. 

Jkuiten tten ko llwkoen ya, ti e, ha Ikuei To, I ; 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


179 


down nicely. For, the thing seemed as if the man 
had stirred. And the man saw that the thing seemed 
as if the lion suspected that he was alive; and ( ) he (4470) 
did not stir, although the stick was piercing him. 

And the lion saw that the thing appeared as if it had 
laid the man down nicely; for the man did not ( ) (4471) 
stir; and it went a few steps away, and it looked 
towards the man, while the man drew up his eyes; 
he looked through his eyelashes ; he saw what the 
lion ( ) was doing. And the lion went away, (4472) 
ascending the hill ; and the lion descended (the hill on 
the other side), while the man gently turned his head 
because he wanted to see whether the lion had really 
gone away. ( ) And he saw that the lion appeared (4473) 
to have descended (the hill on the other side) ; and he 
perceived that the lion again (raising its head) stood 
peeping behind the top of the hill ; * because the lion 
thought that the thing had ( ) seemed as if the man (4474) 
were alive ; therefore, it first wanted again to look 
thoroughly. For, it seemed as if the man had in- 
tended to arise ; for, it had thought that ( ) the man (4475) 
had been feigning death. And it saw that the man 
was still lying down; and it thought that it would 
quickly run ( ) to the water, that it might go to (4476) 
drink, that it might again quickly come out (from 
the water), that it might come to eat. For, it was 
hungry ; it was one who was not a little thirsty ; 
therefore, it first intended to go to drink, that it 
( ) might come afterwards to eat, when it had (4477) 
drunk. 

The man lay looking at it, at that which it did; 

* The lion came back a little way (after having gone out of 
sight) to look again. 


180 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


lie jkui llkuan ll^koen ti e, ha Ina-ka jk'ujk'ii j^uonni 
(4478) e, ha jk'u j^uoiini, I, ( ) he llkuan >Vah ha llkoaken 
II a. He I kui ku-kkui-ten +L ha ka ha sse amm 

• o o / D 

kkwe ttih, ha sse Mukden, ti e, llkha Inu >*a'u sse 
(4479) ll^a ha kkebbi jkhe sse. Ta, ( ) tssa a jkhwiya 
ha d ; ha M ha sse ddali-ddau ha ; ti ya kko ywah, 
ha jkei Haugen ttgl; o ha ka, ha sse kkoah Ihih; 
(4480) ta, ha ddoa ssih Ikii ywan, ha a, ( ) ddarraken. 
Ta, ha ya'uki ddda ten-iia tssa a, Ikui ddoa ssin 
Hnau, ha +1, ti e, ha llkuan tte akka jkui, jkuiten 

(4481) i dd^a Ikix ttattenttatten ui. He tiken ( ) e, ha ka 

ha sse orniko jku^e, ha sse orriiko sse, ha sse ssa 
llwkoeii, ti e, ikui Inu Inaunkko tta. He Ikui llkuan 
(4482) ine ll^kden, ti e, au llkuan Ine ssuen, ( ) o ha Tauki 
H^a ha kkebbi jkhe sse; he ti llkuan ) J wah, ha 
llkdaken lla. He Ikui kii-kkui-ten +i, ha ka ha sse 
arum +kam©pua ddi ; ta, ha Ikii ssaii jkhwdten 
(4483) llkha, ( ) o llkha Iku jnaunkkb llna ti d. He jkui 

llwkoen, ti e, au-Opua llkuan Ine ssuen, he ha yaiiki 

Ine Ini ha, i; he ti llkuan ) J wah, ha jkei Haugen, 
ttaiya. 

(4484) ( ) He, ha Ine Iku ddi akka, o ti Ike, ha tta he ; 

han Taiiki Iku kkoah Ihih, han ttai ; ta, ha Ikii 
(4485) kkoah Ihih, hah Ikii a mm ssuken ti e Ibarra, ( ) 
o han ka llkha yaiiki sse +enh, ti e, ha ss'o Ikaih 
lla he. Hah Ikii llnau, ha Ikuei Ikua, hd ddi, hah 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


181 


and the man saw that its head's* turning away 
(and disappearing), with which it turned away (and 
disappeared), ( ) seemed as if it had altogether (4478) 
gone. And the man thought that he would first 
lie still, that he might see whether the lion would 
not again come peeping. For, ( ) it is a thing (4479) 
which is cunning; it would intend to deceive him, 
that the thing might seem (as if) it had really 
gone away ; while it thought that he would arise ; 
for, he had seemed as if he ( ) stirred. For, it (4480) 
did not know why the man had, when it thought 
that it had laid the man down nicely, the man 
had been falling over. Therefore, ( ) it thought (4481) 
that it would quickly run, that it might quickly 
come, that it might come to look whether the man 
still lay. And the man saw that a long time had 
passed ( ) since it again came to peep (at him) ; (4482) 
and the thing seemed as if it had altogether gone. 

And the man thought that he would first wait 
a little; for, he would (otherwise) startle the lion, 

( ) if the lion were still at this place. And the (4483) 
man saw that a little time had now passed, and he 
had not perceived it (the lion) ; and the thing seemed 
as if it had really gone away. 

( ) And he did nicely at the place yonder where (4484) 
he lay ; he did not arise (and) go ; for, he arose, 
he first sprang to a different place, ( ) while he (4485) 
wished that the lion should not know the place to 
which he seemed to have gone. He, when he had 
done in this manner, ran in a zigzag direction, f 

* The lion, this time when it came back to look at the man, 
only had its head and shoulders in sight. 

f He did not run straight; but ran first in one direction, then 
sprang to another place, then ran again, etc. 


182 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


r f ~ 

(4486) Iku Ikwe ti ssueii ti ko ikiv^e, 6 hail ka, ( ) llkha 
^a sse Jkhou Ihin ha jnwa, llkha yauki sse +enn, 
ti e, ha ss'o Ikafh I la he; llkha sse Iku llnau, 6 ha 
ssa, ha sse ssa Iku llgaue Ikilki ha. H4 tiken e, 
(4487) ( ) ha kail +1, ha ka ha Ikwe ti ssueii ti ko jku^e, 
llkha yauki sse Ikhou Ihin ha Inwa ; ha sse Iku ttai 
Ilneih; ta, llkha ka ha sse llnau, o ha ssa, han ka 
(4488) ha sse ( ) ssa llgaue ha. He tiken e, ha yauki sse 
Iku jku^e, jke le Ilneih, i; ta, llkha ka ha sse llnau, 
6 ha ssa jko ha, llkhan ka ha sse Ikaa ha jnwa ; 
(4489) llkha sse jga'uo-ken llgaue ha, ( ) llkha sse ll^koen, 
ti e, llkha Inu ya'u sse Ini ha. 

H4 tiken e, ha Iku llnau, han jkhai Ihin ssa ll^au, 

hah Iku Iwkeya llneih-ta jk'e a, ti e, ha ttuko dd<5a 

(4490) oa * ( ) o llkoin yah jkau jkhe, han dd^a oa ; he 

f ^ 

tiken e, he kie sse llwkoen jkw'a ttu-ttu e l^kwaiya, 

hd sse ttemmi le ha, i ; ta, ha ttuko ddoa oa, o llkoin 

(4491) yah j^owa. ( ) H4 tiken e, ha IT, ti e, llkhaa ka ha 

sse llnau, o ha Sha, ti e, ha ssin Ikam lla he, ha kkoo 

Ine ssa jko ha ; hah ka ha sse llgaue llkhwi Ihin ha. 

(4492) He tiken e, ( ) ha ka jk'e kkoo sse ttemmi le ha, o 

jkw'a ttu-ttu e l^kwaiya, llkha ^a sse ssa Ini ha. Ta, 

he ttuko Iku e, +eii-na, ti e, llkha Iku 4, ttssa a, ka 

(4493) Ikii llnau, ( ) ttss'a a ha ssin Ikha ha, han yauki ta 

*u wa, o ha hha ha. He tiken e, jk ? e sse llnau, 

kw'a ttu- ttu, jk'e sse ttemmi le ha, l ; h£ ko Ilka ; 

(4489 ') *S = h6i 

Han Inanna-sse llkha; he tiken e, ha Ikuei kui-ten, Iwkeya 
ik'e a, l. 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


183 


while he desired ( ) that the lion should not smell (4486) 
out his footsteps, that the lion should not know 
the place to which he seemed to have gone; that 
the lion, when it came, should come to seek about 
for him (there). Therefore, ( ) he thought that he (4487) 
would run in a zigzag direction, so that the lion 
might not smell out his footsteps; that he might 
go home; for, the lion, when it came, would ( )(4488) 
come to seek for him. Therefore, he would not run 
straight into the house ; for, the lion, when it came 
(and) missed him, would intend to find his footprints, 
that the lion might, following his spoor, seek for him, 

( ) that the lion might see whether it could not get (4480) 
hold of him. 

Therefore, when he came out at the top of the 
hill, he called out to the people at home about it, 
that he had just been " lifted up " * ( ) while the sun (4490) 
stood high, he had been " lifted up"; therefore, 
they must look out many hartebeest-skins, that they 
might roll him up in them ; for, he had just been 
"lifted up", while the sun was high. ( ) Therefore, (4491) 
he thought that the lion would, — when it came out 
from the place to which it had gone, — it would come 
(and) miss him ; it would resolve to seek (and) track 
him out. Therefore, ( ) he wanted the people to roll (4492) 
him up in many hartebeest-skins, so that the lion 
should not come (and) get him. For, they were those 
who knew that the lion is a thing w r hich acts thus to 
( ) the thing which it has killed, it does not leave it, (4493) 
when it has not eaten it. Therefore, the people must 
do thus with the hartebeest-skins, the people must 
roll him up in them; and also (in) mats; these (are) 

* He avoided (?) the name of the lion ; therefore, he in this^44gC) r 
manner told the people about it. 


184 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(4494) tchiieh e, ( ) Sk'e sse ttemmi le ha, i ; llkha yank! 
sse Ini ha. 

He ik'e llkuah L I ; Ike ten I Ikuan Ine ttemmi le ha 

— • 03 17 * o o 3 — 

o Ilka, he kd jkw'a ttu-ttil ; he, he ttemmi ll^ke hi 
(4495) Hka, L ( ) Ta, Ikui Iki llkuah a Ikuei-dda he a; he 
tikexi ISkuah e, he llkuah Ine ttemmi le ha o Ikw'a 

003 / 03 — • 

ttu-ttii; d hih tta Ilka ti e, he li-ka haiiddoro Iki d ; 
(4496) ( ) ha he Tauki ttah llkha sse hha ha. He liken e 7 
he kie I^e a akka, llkha ya'uki sse Ini ha. Ta, jkui 
(4497) Tauddoro a he ya'uki ttamsse kkoka ha, ( ) ha Iku e. 
He tiken e, he ya'uki ttah llkhf sse Iku hha ha, i ; he 
lie Iwke, ti e, he kie sse IS^ou le hauddoro, 6 llneih-ta 
(4498) ll^oull^ou,^ llkha sse Ikii llnau ( ) 6 ha ssa, ha sse 
Iku ssa, llgaue Ikilki Taudddro ; ha ya'uki sse Ini 
yaudddro, d ha ssa ; ha sse Iku ssa, llgaue Ikilki ha. 
(4499) He, jk'e l^kua ( ) jkui-sse, i ; he he llkdh jkui-sse, 
i ; he he Ski ssa jkui-sse, i, o llkuonna-ka ll^ke, he he 
jkaugen jkui-sse, I. He l;£amka-lnuyd llnau, hah 
(4500) ll^kogen lla, ( ) laityi a, laityi sse like, llkau llkho, d 
jkui-sse, ha lauwi llkha, o llkhan jkhai Ihih ssa, ti e, 
(4501) yaudddro ssih jkhai Ihih ssa he. He ha Iwkeya ( ) 

(4497') * Hnem-ta llxoullxou. 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


185 


things which ( ) the people must roll him up in, (4494) 
(in order) that the lion should not get him. 

And the people did so ; the people rolled him up 
in mats,* and also (in) hartebeest-skins, which they 
rolled together with the mats. ( ) For, the man was (4495) 
the one who had spoken thus to them about it ; 
therefore it was that they rolled him up in hartebeest- 
skins, while they felt that their hearts' young man 
(he) was, ( ) whom they did not wish the lion to eat. (4496) 
Therefore, they intended to hide him well, that the 
lion should not get hold of him. For, a young man 
whom they did not a little love ( ) he was. Therefore, (4497) 
they did not wish the lion to eat him ; and they said 
that they would cover over the young man with the 
hut's sheltering bushes, f so that the lion, ( ) when it (4498) 
came, should come seeking about for the young man ; 
it should not get hold of the young man, when it 
came ; it should come seeking about for him. 

And the people went out to seek for ( ) J icui-sse (4499) 
[an edible root] ; and they dug out \km-ss8 ; and 
they brought (home) \kui-sse , at noon, and they baked;t 
\kui-sse. And an old Bushman, as he went along 
getting wood ( ) for his wife, in order that his wife (4500) 
might make a fire above the \kui-sse§ espied the lion, 
as the lion came over (the top of the hill), at the place 
which the young man had come over. And he told 
( ) the house folk about it ; and he spoke, he said: (4501) 

* Many mats. 

f The screen or shelter of the hut. The narrator uses the word (4497') 
scher m for it. 

I In a hole in the ground, which has been previously heated, 
and which is covered over with earth when the j hui-sse has been 
put into it. 

§ i.e. on the top of the earth with which the hole had been 
covered over. 


186 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


llneih-ta Ik'e a ; he ha kii-kkui, hail l^ke: u TJ kan 
Jku e, ll^koeri ll^au Ike a, ha Ina ttss'i, ti Ike, ha 
(4502) yauddoro, ha ssiii jkhai Ihi n ssa he, ti e, ( ) he-g Ine 
Ikuei u, L" 

o 7 

He, yaudddro ^oa kii-kkui, hah Iwke : u TJ kdo sse 
yauki a llkha sse le sse llneih ; vl sse Ikii jkou tte ya, 
o ha yauki sse llnein." 

(4503) ( ) He, jk'e jnhai llkhwaillkhwai, I ; he he jken lla 

llkha, i ; he he l^ai llkha, I ; llkhan yauki ka ha Ikuki, 

0 jk'dten kki-ssan l^ai ya. 

(4504) He Iniitarra kko kii-kkui, hail l^ke : " Ddoa ( ) 
auwi llkha a, jkhwa, llkh^ dda sse ttaiya hi a." 
llkha ku-kkui, hah l^ke, ha, yauki dkauwa jkhwa; 
(4505) ta, ha Ikii +kauwa jkui a, ha ssiii ( ) tt'ajta ha 
tsa^aiten-ka jkhwdtye ; ha \k\i a, ha dkauwa ha. 

He jk'e ku-kkuiten l^ke : u IJ ^a ddda tte ho gen 
l^a-i, o llkha ? he u yauki ddda ka u Ikha llkha ? " 
(4506) ( ) He Imiyd kko, kii-kkui, han l^ke : U TJ ^a ydu 
dd<5a llwkoeh, ti e, jgi^a ddda e? Ha yauki ta ha 
Ikuken, o 1 l^ai ya ; ta, ha ddda Ikii Igwarra o jkui 
(4507) a, ( ) ha ssiii hhoa ha." 

jk'e-ten l^ugen a, llkha a, jkauken; llkhan yaiiki 

i x ~ 

fkauwa jkauken e jk'e l^ugen a ha, a he ; ta, ha Ikii 
ll^kdehllwkden, he. 

(4508) ( ) jk'e-ten l^a-i ha; o ha llgaue 1km, ha sse Ini 

1 km, lk ? e-ten lya-i ha. Ik' e ten kah Iwke : " Ine 

ddda Iki ssou i hi a, j gua t ten- ta - 1 Ikhaiten , i-g Ine ddda 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


187 


u Ye are those who see the hill yonder, its top, the 
place yonder (where) that young man came over, 
what ( ) it looks like ! " (4502) 

And the young man's mother spoke, she said : 
u Ye must not allow the lion to come into the huts ; * 
ye must shoot it dead, when it has not (yet) come to 
the huts." 

( ) And the people slung on their quivers; and (4508) 
they went to meet the lion ; and they were shooting 
at the lion ; the lion would not die, although the 
people were shooting at it. 

And another old woman spoke, she said: " Ye must 
( ) give to the lion a child, (in order) that the lion (4504) 
may go away from us." The lion answered, it said 
that it did not want a child ; for, it wanted the 
person whose eyes' tears it had ( ) licked ; he was (4505) 
the one whom it wanted. 

And the (other) people speaking, said : " In what 
manner were ye shooting at the lion that ye could 
not manage to kill the lion?" ( ) And another old (4506) 
man spoke, he said: u Can ye not see that (it) must 
he a sorcerer? It will not die when we are shooting 
at it; for, it insists upon (having) the man whom ( )(4507) 
it carried off." 

The people threw children to the lion ; the lion did 
not want the children which the people threw to it ; 
for, it, looking, left them alone. 

( ) The people were shooting f at it, while it (4508) 
sought for the man, — that it might get hold of the 
man, — the people were shooting at it. The people 

* The narrator explains here that several huts were in a row ; 
the mother means all the huts, not merely one. The lion must not 
come into the werf ( = " yard ", or " ground "). 

f They wanted to shoot him dead, before he could find the man. 


188 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(4509) Ikha Ikain ( ) ttu llkha." jketen l^a-i ha, hail >auki 
>*wah jk'e llkuah l^a-i ha ; hin llken-i ha, o j guatten- ta- 
ll khalten, o hin kie sse liken Ikha ha. Hah Ihuki 
(4510) ) J wah jk'e llkuah llkeh-i ( ) ha ; ta, ha Ikii ddda, llgaue 
^audddro ; hail Ikii l^ke, ti e, ha Iku +kauwa yaudddr© 
a, ha ssih tt'aita ha tsa^alten-ka jkhwdten * ; ha Ikii 
(4511) a, ha ( ) Ikauwa ha. 

Hail llgwai Ikiiruwa |k ? e a llnelllnei, o hail llgwai-a 
llgaue ^audddro. He jk'e kiukkui-ten l^ke : "TJ % a 
(4512) ) J au ddda ll^kderi, ti e, likha ( ) ya'uki ddda ka, ha ha 
Ikauken e, i ddda a -a ha a he ? " He Ik'e ku-kkui-ten 
iwke : u TJ j(ti yaxi ddda ll^koeh, ti e, !gl^a llkuah 
(4513) ddda, e?" He ( ) jk'e ku-kkuiten l^ke : " Ine ddda aii 
llkha a, Ikuila, i sse ll^kderi, ti e, likha Inu ^au sse 
ha ha, ha sse ttai." llkhah ) J auki hkauwa jkuila ; ta, 
(4514) ( ) llkha Ikii i tkauwa jkui, a, ha ssih ddda, hhda ha ; 
ha Ikii a, ha tkauwa ha. 

He jk'e kii-kkui, hih l^ke, he ) J auki lefi-na ti e, 
(4515) he sse Ikuei ( ) Ikue, he sse ddi llkha, i; ta, jgaue 
llkuah ddda a, he ssih ddda l^a Ski llkha a ; llkhah 
(4516) ) J auki ddda ka, ha Skuki ; ta, ha ddda Ikii ( ) llnaii, 


* The word \JkJiwetye was also given here. 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


189 


said: " Ye must bring for us assegais, we must 
kill ( ) * * * § the lion." The people were shooting at it ; (4509) 
it did not seem as if the people were shooting at it ; 
they were stabbing f it with assegais, while they 
intended to stab it to death. It did not seem as 
if the people were stabbing ( ) it ; for, it continued (4510) 
to seek for the young man ; it said that it wanted 
the young man whose tears it had licked ; he was the 
one whom it ( ) wanted. (4511) 

It scratched asunder, breaking to pieces for the 
people the huts, while it scratched asunder, seeking 
for the young man. And the people speaking, said : 
u Can ye not see that the lion ( ) will not eat the (4512) 
children whom we have given to it?" And the 
people speaking, said : u Can ye not see that a 
sorcerer (it) must be?" And ( ) the people (4513) 
speaking, said: " Ye must give a girl to the lion, 
that we may see whether the lion will not eat her, 
that it may go away." J The lion did not want the 
girl ; for, ( ) the lion only wanted the man whom it (4514) 
had carried off ; he was the one whom it wanted. 

And the people spoke, they said, they did not 
know in what manner they should ( ) act towards (4515) 

the lion ; for, it had been morning § when they 

shot at the lion ; the lion would not die ; for, it 

had, ( ) when the people were shooting at it, it had (4516) 

* As their arrows did not seem able to reach a spot which would 
kill the lion, they thought that they might do better with their 
assegais. 

f The narrator explains that some threw assegais ; others stabbed 
the lion with them. The people were all round it ; but it did not 
bite them, because it wanted the young man whom it had carried off. 

I The lion would not have eaten her at the houses. 

§ It was now late, and they had been shooting at the lion since the 
morning, and did not know what they should now do to get rid of it. 


190 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jk'e l^a-i ha, hah Iku ddqa ttaiya ttih. " He ti'ken 
e, l ^auki +en-na ti e, 1 sse-g Ine Ikuei Ikub, ! ddi 
(4517) llkh|, i. Ta, Ika'uken e, i a-a llkha ( ) a he, Ilkhah 
Iku dd 4a jgwarra, o Ikui a, ha ssin ddqa hhoa ha." 

He jk'e ku-kkuiten Iwke : u Ine Iwke yu yauddoro 
(4518) ^oa a, ha-g Ine llnau, hd ( ) kki-ssa llkainya yauddoro, 
ha-g Ine Ik! Ihin yauddoro, ha-g Ine a I IkJia a yauddoro, 
o ha li-ka Ikhwa kk! ssa 4. Ta, ha llkuan Iku a, 
(4519) il^kden, ( ) ti e, llkoih llkuan le, o Ilkhah ll^e Ik! f; 
Ilkhah Taiiki ta ha ttai, ^u ttu i; ta, ha Iku ddba 
Jgwarra, o Tauddbro." 

(4520) He yauddoro %oa, llkuan Ine ( ) ku-kkui, hah Iwke : 

y, > I _ *1 

u IJ kah, llkuan Ine sse a llkha a, n-ka Ikhwa, u sse 
ya'uki a llkh| sse hha n-ka jkhwa, llkha sse ttaiya 
(4521) ttih lie, ta, u sse ( ) Ikha llkau tte ha, o n-ka jkhwa ; 
ha sse Ikuken, llkellke, n-ka jkhwa; ha sse Ikuken, 
llkauttih n-ka jkhwa." 

(4522) He jk'e llkuan Ine llnau, ( ) o yauddoro ^oa-ken ka 
ha Ikuei kku, jk'bten Ine Ik! Ihin yauddoro, o jkw'a 
ttu-ttu e, he ssin ttemmi le tta yauddoro, i, hih 
(4523) llkuan Ine a ( ) llkha a yauddoro. He llkha Ine ttss'i 
Ikhi yauddoro, f ; jk'bten llnau, ha ttss'ia Ik!, yauddoro, 
jk'eten l^a-i ha ; jk'bten llkeh-i ha ; he ha llkuan Ine 
(4524) ( ) ttss'i Ikhi yauddoro, !. 

He llkha ku-kkui, han Iwkeya jk'e a, t! e, I Iwke a 
a, ha llkuan a, ha Ine sse Ikuken a ; ta, ha llkuan Ina 
(1525) Iku! a, ha ss!h ( ) ddba llgaue Iki ha; hah llkuan Ine 
Ina ha ! 

He ha llkuan Ine Ikuken, I, o jkui-ten ll^a Ikmuken 
tta; hah ll^am Ikuken tta, h! jkui. 


YOUNG MAN CARRIED OFF BY LION. 


191 


been walking about. " Therefore, we do not know 
in what manner we shall act towards the lion. For, 
the children whom we gave to the lion, ( ) the lion (4517) 
has refused, on account of the man whom it had 
carried off." 

And the people speaking, said : " Say ye to the 
young man's mother about it, that she must, ( ) (4518) 
although she loves the young man, she must take 
out the young man, she must give the young man 
to the lion, even if he be the child of her heart. 

For, she is the one who sees ( ) that the sun is (4519) 
about to set, while the lion is threatening us; the 
lion will not go (and) leave us ; for, it insists upon 
(having) the young man." 

And the young man's mother ( ) spoke, she said : (4520) 
u Ye may give my child to the lion; ye shall not 
allow the lion to eat my child; that the lion may 
go walking about; for, ye shall ( ) killing lay it (4521) 
upon my child ; that it may die, like my child ; that 
it may die, lying upon my child." 

And the people, ( ) when the young man's mother (4522) 
had thus spoken, the people took the young man 
out from the hartebeest- skins in which they had 
rolled him up, they gave ( ) the young man to the (4528) 
lion. And the lion bit the young man to death; 
the people, when it was biting at the young man, 
were shooting at it ; the people were stabbing it ; 
and it ( ) bit the young man to death. (4524) 

And the lion spoke, it said to the people about it, 
that this time was the one at which it would die ; 
for, it had got hold of the man for whom it had 
( ) been seeking ; it had got hold of him ! (4525) 

And it died, while the man also lay dead; it also 
lay dead, with the man. 


192 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


V.— 49. 

L. 

A WOMAN OF THE EARLY RACE AND 
THE RAIN BULL. 


[Dictated, in 1878, by lhan+kass'o, who heard it from his 
mother , l^abbi-an.) 

(7434) Jkhoa kanha 5a llhaita Jkuila, au jkmlaken llna llnein ; 

an han tatti, ha Sku Jnaunko ttah. Jkhodgen Ine Iku 
(7435) Jkhou ha, he Jkhoa Ine Iku Ihin, I; au tiken ( ) ha 

Ine IkorowaA He, ha hi, Ine Iku Ikuei Iki, hah 

• D ' Z> o 7 

^ ^ a f f f f r<j 

llhaiten ssa, au hah llhaita Ikuila, au Ikuila iwkwai. 
Han ha Ine Iku Ikuei Iki, hah Ik'dtten ssa, au 

D o 7 • 0 7 

(7436) Jkuilaken ha ta, au hah Ine Jkaiin luhi'ta ( ) Jkhwa 
au Inuih ; hah Ine ta. 

• o 7 

r'w 

He, ha ha Ine Iku Ikhou ta au Ikhoa l^kwai, au 
tiken Ind ta Jkah,*j' au tiken tatti e, ha ttuttu e Ine 
Iki Jhah ti ; he $ e, ha Ine llkhoe hd ssa hi, hi h Ine 
Hkellkdya Ikhumm. 

(7437) ( ) He Ikuila ha Ine Iku ta ha, au hah Iku-g Ine 

Ikou Ikhe ssa ; au hah llkabbe ta ha. He Ikuila ha 
Ine Iku louwi ha,§ au hah ttai ll^i ssa ha, au llnein 


(7435') 


* Hkellkeya Ikhumm. Jk'eten Iku Ikueida, hin +kakka ke, 

° t / t 

ti e, Jkhoa ttuttu ha ka Iki Jhah ti, au ha Ine l^kiht Ihin ; ha 
Ine haa ttin, Ikhumm a Ine ss'o. 


(7436 J ) 

(7437') 


f Jkhoa Iwkwai llkuan e. Jk'eten tatti, ha Iwkwai yauki 
ttwaiten Ilka hi ; hin e, Jk'e ta, hi ta Jkan. 

J Ha ttuttuggn e, ha |ne llkhoe ho ssa hi. 

§ Ha llkuan Iku llkellkeya x® 10 ? au ^an tatti e, Jkhoa ehen 
Iku e. 


WOMAN AND RAIN BULL. 


193 


Y.— 49. 


L. 


A WOMAN OF THE EARLY RACE AND 
THE RAIN BULL. 

The Rain formerly courted (?) a young woman, (7434) 
while the young woman was in (her) hut, because 
she felt that she was still ill. The Rain scented 
her, and the Rain went forth, on account of it; 
while the place ( ) became misty A And he, in (7435) 
this manner, courting (?) came, while he courted (?) 
the young woman on account of her scent. He in 
this manner trotting came ; while the young woman 
was lying down, while she held (her) ( ) child (7436) 
(by her) on the kaross ; she was lying down. 

And she lay, smelling the Rain's scent, while the 
place was fragrant, f while the place felt that his 
(the Rain's) breath was that which closed in the 
place; it was thatj through which he coming passed; 
it resembled a mist. 

( ) And the young woman became aware of him, (7437) 
as he came up; while he lowered his tail(?). And 
the young woman perceived him, § as he came past 
her, at the side of the hut. And the young woman 

* Resembling a fog (or mist). The people spoke thus, they or ?\ 

said to me that the Rain's breath was wont to shut in th$ place, ' ' 

when he came out to seek food ; (while) he was eating about, the 
mist was 11 sitting " there. 

f The Rain's scent it was. The people say that there is no / 743 c n 
scent as sweet, hence the people say that it is fragrant. ' 

f His breath is that through which he passing comes. 

§ He resembled a bull, while he felt that (he) was the Rain's ("7437 : ) 
body. V J 

The word %dro also means an ox; but the narrator explained 
that a bull gwdi) is meant here. 


o 


194 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(7438) llka^u. He jkuila ha Ine kui: " [kui a, ( ) ha ^a 
yod ss'o ddda a, ggauwa n?" an hah ha Ikn-g Ine 
jk'oe * ti jkhe ssa.f 

jkuildken Iku Ine Igomm Ihin ssa, Jkuilaken Iku-g 
Ine llkdu juhi llkho lla ssa a ^u. He jkuila ha Ine 
(7439) kkdah ui; he jkuila ( ) hd Ine llkei juhi llkho a ^u; 
Ikuilaken Sne 4ka Iho Ihin lla ha; he Ikuila ha Ine hh6 

• O f O • J • o 3 

Inuih ; Ikuila Ine llhin Ikwe ha. 

Ikuilaken ha Ine h6 Ikhwa, i Ikuflaken Ine Ikahn 

• o O D • / u • o o • o 

(7440) kii*i akken llwei Ikhwa; jkuilaken ( ) ha Ine jkann 
kiii akken llwei luhi tte Ikhwa au Inuih, hah Ine Ikh 
te Sla Ikhwa. § 

Hah Ine llkaiten Ikhoa ; he Ikhoa Ine Iki Ik'u lla ha 9 
L|| Hah ha Ine lla ; hah hd llwkoehya II k au Ohoken. 
(7441) He, ( ) ha ha Ine lla, hah ha Ine kui, hah l^ke : " A 
koa sse ll£ Oho Ike tan jkhe, ha jkuiya, a sse lla 
ssudnya kd ha. Ta, n-ka tiken-tiken ttan ; a sse 
jliamm lla, ssuehya ke ha." He tiken e, jkhoa ha 


! t ~ 

(7438') * Ha jnujnuntu llkuan e; he e, ha kokoa, i; au han tatti, 

ha Jk'deya. 

f Au hah tatti, ha llkuan |ku-g |ne jkaun Jkhe Ilneih ttu. 

(7439') X Ha llkuan ss'o oa |ku ta gwai jkhwa, au hah tatti, ha llkuan 
ya'uki sse Jk'ou ; ta, ha Iku jk'ouwa lla, ||a, ||a, ||a, hah |ku ||an 

(7440') ddi Iga, au ( ) jkhoa ka, lie ts|^uken, tsa^uken a ddoa a, ha Ihin 
ha, hah Hhaiten ||a. 

§ Au Hneih. Hah |ku te ya, au hah 4i, ti e, ha llkuan |ku sse 
fkuken, IS a ddi Iga. 

|| Au jkhoagen tatti e, jkhoa llkuan ddoa ||a, jkhoa-ka llnein, 
tsa£uken a, ha Ihin ha. He tiken e, jkuila |ne kui, ha lla 
ssuehya ha. 

(7441') jk'eten ^kakken, ti e, jkhoa-ka %oro Iku-g Ine Ihin, au ha-ka 
tsa^uken, he tsaxuken |ne llko, l ; au hah tatti e, Jkhoa Ine |hin, 
jkhoa-ka x6ro. He ti hin e, ts§xuken Ine llko, I. 


WOMAN AND RAIN BULL. 


195 


exclaimed: " Who can this man ( ) be who comes (7438) 
to me? n while he, crouching (?) *, came up.f 

The young woman took up buchu in her hand, the 
youug woman threw buchu upon his forehead. And 
she arose; and she ( ) pressed (the buchu) down (7439) 
upon his forehead (with her hand) ; she pushed 
him away; and she took up (her) kaross ; she 
tied it on. 

The young woman took up the child, $ she held the 
child very nicely; she, ( ) holding (it) very nicely, (7440) 
laid the child down upon a kaross ; she, covering (it), 
laid the child § away. 

She mounted the Rain; and the Rain took her 
away. || She went along ; she went along looking 
at the trees. And ( ) she went along, she spoke, (7441) 
she said : " Thou must go to the tree standing 

yonder, the one that is big, thou shalt go (and) set 
me down at it. For I ache ; thou shalt first go to 


* His ears (they) were; those which he laid down; while he (7438') 
felt that he crouched (?). 

f While he felt that he stood in front of the opening of the hut. 

J She seems to have laid the child away for (her) husband; (7439 J ) 
while she felt that she was not going to live ; for, she would living 
go, go, go, go, she would go to become a frog, for ( ) the Rain (7440') 
intended that she should go to the water pit, that water pit from 
which he went forth, he courting (?) went. 

§ At the hut. She laid it down, while she thought that she 
should die, (and) go to become a frog. 

|| While the Rain felt that the Rain was going to the Rain's (7440*) 
home, the pit from which he came out. Therefore, the young 
woman said he should go to let her sit down. 

The people say that the Rain's Bull goes out from his pit, and (7441 ? ) 
the pit becomes dry, while it feels that the Rain has gone out, 
the Rain's Bull. Therefore, the pit dries up on account of it. 


196 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(7442) fne jk'htten ( ) llkhdu llkua Ikhe Ila ha, au Ikuerriten- 
Skuerriten.^ He, ha ha Ine Ik'htten Ikhe Ila Ikuerriten- 

Oo / D • o • oo 

\ . 

Ikuerriten. He Ikuila M Ine kui : " A koa sse ll^ki 

o o • O 3 o O 

Sk<5 ssin lie Oho lu." ti bin e, ha ha Ine ll^ki Ikd 
(7443) ssin ( ) Ilk Ohd lu. Ikuilaken ha llwkohn ha; jkui- 
laken Ine Igoihm Ihin ssa, ha Ine jguru j* ha. He 
tiken e, jkhoa Iku-g Ine Opuoin, I. 

He tiken e, ha ha llnau, hah ll^koen ti e, Ikhoa Ine 
(7444) Opuoin, ha Ine Iku ( ) likaiten, hah Ine Iku kkwa ui, 
hah Ine Iku likaiten, hah Ine Iku Inabba likaiten 

o / • o 

Ikuerriten- Ikuerriten. He, ha ha Ine Iku kan llkhoe, 

o o o o / D ' 

hah Ine Iku Ikuei Iki, hah kkwa-kkwa Ila, au jkhoagen 

t 

(7445) ( ) Iku ©puoinya. Hah Ine Iku kan kkwa-kkwa 
jkuiten ; au jkhoagen ha Ine Iku Ikho a tss'i, au 
jkhoagen tatti, ti-g Ine kkuerre. 

Hah Ine Iku kkoan ui, hah Ine Iku ttai ui ; hah 
(7446) Ine Iku ttai Ikahi Ila ( ) jkhoa-ttii-llkai, e ddda e, ha 
llhaiten Ihin hi; au hah ka hah +i, jkuila Ikanna, 
ha llkou ss'o ha. Hah Ine Iku ui, hah Ine Iku ttai 

7 D 

Ikam Ila Ikhoa. Hah Ine Iku llah l&, au Ikuilhken 
(7447) ( ) Iku Ila, hail Ine iku llan like Ikilkx ssa; au han 

(7442') * 0h6 a jkuiya ha Ifkuah e. 

(7443 ? ) f llkuan Iguguohbo ha. 

Au tchuen ||kowa, hih Iku jguru hi. He ti hin e, hi Ine ta, hi 
jguru hi, I. Au tchuen ya ||ka, hi koa Ine ta, hi jgwl hi. 


WOMAN AND RAIN BULL. 


197 


set me down at it." Therefore, the Rain trotted, ( ) (7442) 
taking her straight to the \kudrriten-\kudrriten* And 
he trotted up to the I kuerriten - \kudrri ten . And the 

young woman said : " Thou must go underneath, 
close to the stem of the tree." Therefore, he went 
underneath, close ( ) to the stem of the tree. The (7443) 
young woman looked at him ; the young woman 
took out buchu, she rubbed him (with it).f Then 
the Rain went to sleep, on account of it. 

Therefore, when she saw that the Rain slept, she 
( ) climbed up, she stole softly away, she climbed (7444) 
up, she climbed along (?) the I kuerriten A kujtrriten . 

And she descended at a distance, she in this manner 
stole softly along, while the Rain ( ) continued to (7445) 
sleep. She, afar, softly returned home ; while the 
Rain awoke behind her back, when the Rain felt 
that the place was becoming cool. 

He arose, he walked away; he went away to ( )(7446) 
the middle of the spring (?) from which he had 
courting (?) gone out, while he believed that the 
young woman was still sitting upon his back. He 
went away, he went away to the water. He went 
into (it), while the young woman ( ) went along, she (7447) 
went to burn buchu; while she was " green", while 

* It is a large tree, which is found in kloofs. (7442 ) 

The singular form of \ku6rriten\kyerrlten is, I hah^.kass'6 says, 
\kui\kuerri. It is the name of a bush found in the ravines of 
a ' red ' mountain, on this side of Kenhardt, called Rooiberg by 
the white men. (¥111. — 21, p. 7835.) 

f Rubbed his neck (with buchu). (7443 ) 

With dry things they rub. Therefore, they are wont to say 
that they rub with them. 

If things are wet, they are wont to say that they anoint 
with them. 


198 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ha lku-g Ine Ikainya,* an hah ha ka +ka | au llkhou 
t^kwai, hah Ine Iku jgiirn Ikilki ha, au hah jguru Ikam 
lii llkhou Iwkwai, au ha. 

D ' 

(7448) inulnutatten ( ) e ssin Iwkua, hi h e Ine ssan llkei 
Slkoro, au hin ta, llkoro l^kwai sse Han, jkhoa sse ^auki 
luaiten hi.J 


Y.— 41. 

B . 


IKUHA-GA KKTJMM : IGA-KA KKTJMM. 

c O / • 

( Related , in December , 1874, by jkweiten ta liken, who heard it 
from her mother , :£kamme-ah.) 

(3942) Ikuila, ha 6a Ikouken tta; han tta. Hah ^auki ta 
hhi ha, ha ^6aken-ggu a a ha a hi. Hah Ikouken tta. 
Hah Ikii lid jkwaka Ika'uken ; hin e, ha hi hi. 
(3943) ( ) Ha ^oaken-gguken ^auki +enna, ti e, ha iya, ha 
iki Ikwaka jkauken, I ; hin e, ha hi hi ; han >*auki 
ta hi ha ^oaken-ggu ta a ha a hi. 

(3944) Ha ^oaken llna. Hin Ikua \\%e. ( ) Hin kui, 


(7447') 

(7448') 


* The word I Icainya can mean 'yellow', 'green', 'light blue', 
' bright ', or ' shining '. 

f llan. 

r r r 

Ha-ha l^kwai |ku e, e tan llkhou. llkhou llkuan |ku e Jkhoa- 
ka tchuen. 

o 

t Ha-ka llkuakkaken e ha ddi akken !khoa, I, he e, Ik'e-ta 
ku lku-g Ine llkoaken jkoulkduiiken, I; he oa sse la jkhe, ka 
ku ddi Jga. 


THE GIRL ? S STORY J THE FROGS' STORY. 199 

she smelt strongly * * * § of the scent of the II khtfu ; she 
was rubbing herself, while she rubbed, taking away 
the smell of the II khou from herself. 

The old women ( ) who had been out seeking food (7448) 
were those who came to burn horns, while they 
desired that the smell of the horns should go up, so 
that the Rain should not be angry with them.*)' 


V.— 41. 

B. 


THE GIRL'S STORY; THE FROGS' STORY. 

A girl formerly lay ill ; she was lying down. (3942) 
She did not eat the food which her mothers J gave 
her. She lay ill. 

She killed the children of the Water § ; they were 
what she ate. ( ) Her mothers did not know that (3943) 
she did thus, (that) she killed the Water's children ; 

(that) they were what she ate ; she would not eat 
what her mothers were giving to her. 

Her mother was there. They || went out to seek 
Bushman rice. ( ) They spoke, they ordered a (3944) 


* To smell strongly. , (7447') 

Her own scent it was which resembled (that of) the WJchou. 

The || hJiou (possibly a fungus ?) is a thing belonging to the Rain. 

f Her (the young woman's) intelligence was that with which (7448') 
she acted wisely towards the Rain ; hence all the people lived ; 
they would (otherwise) have been, killed ; all (of them) would 
have become frogs. 

X That is to say, her mother and the other women. 

§ \kweiten ta When has not seen these things herself, but she (3942') 
heard that they were beautiful, and striped like a I habba, i.e. zebra. 

The Water was as large as a bull, and the Water's children were 
the size of calves, being the children of great things. 

II All the women, and all the children hut one. 


(3943') 


200 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


hih Iwke, jkhwa llnallna llneih, 1 ; jkmlaken Tank! 
4enna jkhwa. lie Imitarra kui, ha llbkoen, tchueh 
e, ha llka^ai hi hi. He, he a jkhwa llneillnei llneifi ; 
(3945) he he Ikua, 1 . Hih kie, ( ) jkhwa sse llwkoeh, 
tchueh e, ha llka^ai hi hi. 

Ilka^ai I hih, I, au jkaukenka llneih, jk'al ^hwarra, 

9 _ 

au hah ka, ha sse Ika jkwa-Opua II jkkwah I eta 
(3946) llneih ; au hah Tauki leiina ( ) jkhwa. He, ha llah 
Ikl jkwa-Opua, ha Ikammain-ti ssa jkwa-Opua 6 
llneih. jkhwan llwkoen ; lie ha j^aua jkwa-Opua ka 
eh ; he ha hi, I ; lie ha tteh, ! ; he ha li^a, llah tteh ; 
(3947) aii ( ) hah ll^ko'enya. He, ha llah tten, T, au hah tatti, 
ha ha kkuita. jkhwan llwkoenya ; he ha tten, i. 

r ~ ~ r 

He, ha ^oa jkulten ssa, L jkhwa Ikakka ha ^oa, 
(3948) l ; ta, ha llka^ai llah Ikl tcha a aken o jkwa. ( ) He, 
ha kui: " jkwa-Opua e." He, ha ^oa Tauki 
+kakken, I ; han ll^a, ha Ikua ttal, 6 ll^e. 

He jkhwa Iku-g llnau, hah Ikua ttin, Ikuakaken 
(3949) Iku Ihih ssa. He, ha ku-kui, han Iwke : ( ) " Ti 
e Ta'uki aken o-g llneih; ta, llgollgo Iku-g Ine Ik! 
Ikam ssa, o ^hwarra, i. Ta, ti Tauki ddi akka o-g 

/ 9 9 

llneih. Hd ti hih e, llgollgo Ikii-g line Iki Ikam lla 
(3950) o ^hwarra, ( ) Tati, ha Opua^ai Ikl jkwaka 


the girl's story; the frogs' story. 


201 


child * to remain at home. The girl did not know 
(about) the child. And the old woman said that 
she must look at the things which her elder sister 
ate. And they left the child at home f ; and they 
went out to seek food (Bushman rice). They 
intended (?) ( ) that the child should look at the (3945) 
things which her elder sister ate. 

The elder sister went out from the house of illness, 

(and) descended to the spring, as she intended again 
to kill a Water-child. The (Bushman) child was 
in the hut,J while she (the girl) did not know 
(about) ( ) the child. And she went (and) killed (3946) 
a Water-child, she carried the Water-child home. 

The (Bushman) child was looking; and she (the girl) 
boiled the Water-child's flesh; and she ate it; and 
she lay down; and she again went to lie down, 
while ( ) she (the child) beheld her. And she went (3947) 
to lie down, when she felt that she had finished 
eating. The child looked at her ; and she lay down. 

And her mother returned. The child told her 
mother about it; for her elder sister had gone to 
kill a handsome thing at the water. ( ) And her (3948) 
mother said: "It is a Water- child ! " And her 
mother did not speak about it; she again went out 
to seek for Bushman rice. 

And when she was seeking about for food, the 
clouds came up. And she spoke, she said: ( )(3949) 
"Something is not right at home; for a whirlwind 
is bringing (things) to the spring. Tor something 
is not going on well at home. Therefore, the whirl- 
wind is taking (things) away to the spring." ( )(3950) 

* A little girl, as big as a European child of 11. (3944') 

f Literally, " allowed " her to remain there, 
f In her mother's hut. (3945') 


202 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


9 

jkauken. Tiken e, !i go 1 1 go Ikii-g hie Ski Ikam lla hi 
o ^hwarra, i. Ti e, tti >*auki ddi +hannuwa, au 
llnem, 1 , ta, ha Opua^ai Ikweiten Ski Ikwaka jkauken. 
(3951) ( ) Tiken 4, llgollgo Iki Ikam lla he ail j^hwarra, i. 
Hih tatti, ha Opua^ai Iki Ikwaka jkauken; tiken 4, 
Slgollgo Ine Iki Ikam lla he an ^hwarra, i; an hah 
(3952) tatti, ha ( ) lid jkwaka jkauken. 

SkuiS a a mmaii, ha le ^hwarra; he e, ha Ikii-g Ine 
ddi jga, !. lla ^oaken-ggu, hm jhou, hih le j^kwarra ; 
(3953) llgollgo Ikil-g Ine Iki ssa he, I; au hah ( ) Ikweiten 
Skii leta ^hwarra. Han Ikil-g Ine e jga. Ha ^oakcn- 
ggii ssan H^am a ke ddi jga, i ; o llgollgo Ikil-g Ine 4, 
Iki ssa he, au hih llna jkau^ii; llgollgo Ikil-g Ine Iki 
(3954) ssa he ( ) o ^hwarra, au ha Opua^ai Ikweiten Ikii 
Ine leta ^hwarra. Hah Ikil-g Ine e jga. He ha 
^oaken-ggu Ikii-g Ine jhou, hih ssa ; llgollgogen Iku-g 
(3955) Ine 4, Iki ssa he, I; au hih Ikii llna jkau^ii. ( ) 
Au ha Opua^aiten Ikii leta ^hwarra ; hah Iku-g 
Ine 4 jga. 

Ha daken ll^ain Ikil-g Ine ssan ddi jga ; tdti, 
Slgollgo Iki ssa ha oa, i, au hah kan llna jkaii^il, au 
(3956) ^hwarra, ti e, ha Opua^ai llna hi. ( ) Ha oaka 
jnwa, he Ikii-g Ine llkda-ken Ik'agen Ihin ^hwarra, 
i ; au llgollgo jk4rri Ikii-g Ine Iki ssa he 6 ^hwarra. 
Hah Ikil-g Ine Sl^ahi ddi jga llkda-ken ; h6 tau laityi, 
(3957) han ( ) ll^am Ikii-g Ine ddi jga; 6 hah tati llgollgo 
Iki ssa he, o ^hwarra. Hi-ta tchwi-tchwi Ikii ley a 


THE girl's story; the frogs' story. 203 

Because her daughter killed the Water's children, 
therefore the whirlwind took them away to the 
spring. Something had not gone well at home, for 
her daughter had been killing the Water's children. 

( ) That was why the whirlwind took them away (3951) 
to the spring. Because her daughter killed the 
Water's children, therefore the whirlwind took them 
away to the spring; because she ( ) had killed the (3952) 
Water's children. 

The girl was the one who first went into the spring, 
and then she became a frog. Her mothers afterwards 
went into the spring ; the whirlwind brought them 
to it, when she ( ) was already in the spring. She (3953) 
was a frog. Her mothers also became frogs ; while 
the whirlwind was that which brought them, when 
they were on the hunting ground; the whirlwind 
brought them ( ) to the spring, when her daughter (3954) 
was already in the spring. She was a frog. And 
her mothers afterwards came ; the whirlwind was 
that which brought them to it, when they were on 
the hunting ground. ( ) Meanwhile their daughter (3955) 
was in the spring ; she was a frog. 

Her father also came to become a frog ; for the 
whirlwind brought her father — when he was yonder 
on the hunting ground — to the spring, (to) the place 
where his daughter was. ( ) Her father's arrows * (3956) 
altogether grew out by the spring; for the great 
whirlwind had brought them to the spring. He also 
altogether became a frog; likewise his wife, she ( ) (3957 ) 
also became a frog ; while she felt that the whirl- 
wind had brought them to the spring. Their things 
entered that spring (in which) they were. The 

* All the family and their mats were carried into the spring, by (3956') 
the whirlwind, and all their things. 


204 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ha ^hwarra, he leta. Tchueh Iku ley a ha ^hwarra, 
(3958) hin tati, he Iku e Iga. ( ) He ti hi h Ine e, he-ta 
tchueh le ^hwarra, 1 ; au hin tati, he Iku-g Ine e jga. 
ISkagen Ihih ^hwarra, llkellkeya jnwa ; hd-ta tchuehyan 
Ine Ik'agen I hin ^hwarra, i. 


y.— 55. 

L. 

THE MAN WHO ORDERED HIS WIFE TO 
CUT OFF HIS EARS. 


( Dictated , in 1878, by Ihan+kass'o, who heard it from his mother, 

l%abbi-an.^) 

(7095) Haf llkuah ha 6a ka, laiti Ikaulkaii ho, ha jnujnuntu, 
ta, ha Ilka-Opua Ina ^arra Iku jTad lha ; J au ha 
ilka-Opua I hah Iku i l^un-a ha Ilka-Opua Ina. 

(7096) H6 ti hin e, ( ) laiti ha Ine Ikaulkaii h6 ui ha 
jnujnuntu ; au laitiken ta ha kku, ha Taiiki sse i ; hah 
a, Ine Ilka ssin. 

He ti hin e, laiti Ine Ikaulkaii lio, ha jnujnuntu ; 

(7097) he, ha ha Ine llkerri-i, au ha ( ) ttu; au ha-ha, ha 
a, ka laiti i ; ta, ha Ilka-Opua Ina £arra Iku jTao lha ; 
au ha Ilka-Opuaken Iku i l^uh-a, ha Ina ; au laitiken 
l^un, ho ui Ikuken tssoroken. 


(7095') 


* The narrator thinks that his mother had this story from her 
father, Tsatsi ; and he probably from his own mother, Dderruken. 

f IN' llknan a, yauki +eii-na ha Ike ; ta, jk'e jke e, yauki 
ikwiya ka ha |ke ; ta, !xwe-||na-ss'o-jke, Ike Iku e ; he ti'ken e, hi 
ssin ddi Ilkan-ddi, I. 

J Hah Iku i 4i, ti e, ha Ilka-Opua Ina-ka ttu e oa ; au ha 
Ilka-Opua |na-ka Ikukaken Iku e l%un oa. 


MAN WHOSE EARS WERE CUT OFF. 


205 


things entered that spring, because they (the people) 
were frogs. ( ) Therefore it was that their things (3958) 
went into the spring, because they were frogs. The 
mats * (grew) out by the spring, like the arrows ; 
their things grew out t by the spring. 


Y.— 35. 

L. 

THE MAN WHO ORDERED HIS WIFE TO 
CUT OFF HIS EARS. 


He$ formerly wished (his) wife to cut off his (7095) 
ears, for his younger brother's head had surely been 
skinned § ; whereas his younger brother's wife had 
only shaved his younger brother's head. 

Therefore, ( ) (his) wife cut away his ears ; (7096) 
although (his) wife had said that she would not do 
so ; he was the one who insisted (upon it). 

Therefore, (his) wife cut off his ears ; and he was 
screaming, on account of his ( ) skin, while he (7097) 
himself had been the one who wished the wife to 
do so ; for his younger brother's head had surely 
been skinned ; whereas his younger brother bad 
merely had his head shaved ; while (his) wife shaved, 
removing the old hair. 

* Mats of which the Bushmen make their huts (made from (3958') 
a thick grass or reed?). 

f These things that grow by the springs belonged to the first 
Bushmen, who preceded the present race, ! kweiten ta When says. 

Her mother told her this. 

!x«^-|«a-sse-!^'e is the name of the Bushmen who lived first in 
the land. 


X I am one who does not know his name, because the people ( 7095 ') 
were those who did not utter his name to me ; for, they were men 
of the early race ; therefore, they did foolish things on account of it. 

§ He really thought that the skin of his younger brother's head 
was off, while it was his younger brother's head's hair which had 
been shaved away. 


206 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


V.— 70. 

L. 

THE +NERRU AND HER HUSBAND. 

(Dictated, in June , 1879, by Jhan+kass'o, who heard it from his 
mother , l^abbi-an.*) 

(8507) j^wk-llna-ss'o-jkui llkuan hd 6a llian-a Inhrru.t 

X f 

+nerru Ine Iku Jkolkp J le llkho ll^e, au Ilho, au 
(8508) gwaiya Ikhd ll^e. Ha hd Ine lid lhaiten ll^e ; ( ) 
hi Ine Ikuiten. 

• o 

III Ine jkdgen kau Iwkua, au jga'ue, liiii k6a gwai ; 

au han tdtti, ha Iku I llna hi gwai. Ha a Ilkhu6ten.§ 

H6 tiken e, hd Ine llna hi gwai. H6 tiken e, ha 

(8509) ha Ine l^kua, ( ) i, au jgaue. Gwai Ine IkhI ll^e; 

ha Ine le llkho ll^e au Ilh6.|| He gwai. Ine ll^a, hah 

Ikhi ll^e-ko. Ha Ine le llkhou llkho ha, le llkhou 

(8510) llkho ll^e, au Igaueta ll^e. Ha ( ) Ine ll^a, hd ui, 

% 

ha Ine llgaue H^e-ko. Hd Ine ll^a, ha Ine Ini ll^e- 
ko, ha Ine llkhudten ha. He, ha Ine ll^a, hd Ikhi ha. 


(8524') * ET ti e, Ixabbi-an Iko'ite, Jkoite, jkoite-ko xoa ss'o e, oa 

|kuei ku, bin +kakka ha. 

(8507') t +nerru llkuan ha oa e jkui; he ti hin e, ( ) !xwe-||na-ss'6-|kui 

(8508') Iku a | hah- a ha. 

(8507') X Sin tatti, hi le|e llkho N^e, au listen Iki |k'au, hin Ine ta, 


(8508') 

(8509') 


hi |ko llxe. 

§ llkhueten = liken. 

|| |kui gwaViten a |e|e llkho llxe au llho ; au jkui laitiken Ine a, 
!ka|kanna au ||ho, ha a ka, ha ssin xutten ti |e llxe. Ha llkuan 
Iku llkhoe ss'o llkha-tu, au |kui laitiken Ine llkou ss'5. 




\%6 gw at , male porcupine. 

j hdfc%.ha9a'o, Jan . 26 th, 1879. 



IxdQpud, young porcupine, fnbrru, birds. 

8 hdtb%ka83*o, Mowbray s June 26 th, 1879. 



1 Iciiken-U \aiti } female anteater, 

I hctnjp feats' o f Oct., 1878. 


THE +NERRU AND HER HUSBAND. 


207 


V.— 70. 

L. 

THE +NEBRU AND HER HUSBANDS 

A man of the early race formerly married a (8507) 
^nerru.'f The * * * § ndrru putj the dusty ( ix . earthy) 
Bushman rice into a bag, when her husband had 
dug out (literally, u had killed ") Bushman rice. 

She went to wash the Bushman rice; ( ) they (8508) 
returned home. 

They early went out to seek for food on the 
morrow, she and (her) husband ; for she was 
alone (?) with her husband. He was the one who 
dug § out (Bushman rice). Therefore she was with 
her husband. Thus she went out to seek for food, 

( ) on the morrow. The husband dug out Bushman (8509) 
rice; he put the Bushman rice into the bag.|| And 
the husband again dug out other Bushman rice. 

He put it in above, put in the Bushman rice on 
the top of the morning's Bushman rice. He ( ) (8510) 
again arose, he sought for other Bushman rice. 

He again found other Bushman rice ; he dug out 


* I think that | ^abbi-atis grandmother's grandmother's other 
grandmother's mother it must have been who formerly, in this 
manner, spoke to her. 

f The + nerru (now a bird) was formerly a person ; therefore, 
( ) a man of the early race was the one who married her. 

J When they are putting Bushman rice into (a hag), when 
the Bushman rice has earth with it, they say that they J ho 
Bushman rice. 

§ " To dig with a stick " is here meant. 

|| The man was the one who was putting Bushman rice into 
the hag, while the woman was the one who was holding the 
hag ; she was the one who intended to shake in the Bushman 
rice. He stood inside the mouth of the hole, while the wife 
stood above . 


(8524') 


(8507') 

(8508') 

(8507') 

(8508') 

(8509') 


208 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ha Ine le jk'aiin llkho ha. Ha Ine le Ik'aun llkho ha, 
(8511) he ( ) llho-g* Ine ik'aun. 

He, ha Ine ui, ha Ine llgaue ll^e ko. Ha Ine fni 
\\%6 ko ; ha Ine llkhueten ha. Ha Ine Ikhi ha. He 
(8512) ha ha Ine kui: u Indki lk'dussi,j* h ( ) jnhi llkho 
ll^e a." He laiti ha Ine kui : J u Ssi tan ^auki 
Ikweiten Iko, ssi tssi Inuih, ssi e Inerru llneih." § 

r ft 

He, ha ha Ine kiii : "Akki, dkki a jk'oussi, h juhf 
(8513) llkho ll^e." He laiti ha Ine kui: "A kail ( ) ddda 

rv» 

Iku sse llkhde llkho lie il^e au Ik'au; ta, ssi ^aiiki 
Ikweiten Iko ssi tssi Inuih." He, ha ha Ine kui : 
u Akki akki a jk'dussi, h luhi llkho ll;£e." He laiti 
(8514) ha ( ) Ine kui: "A kah ddoa Iku sse llkhoe llkho lie 

rv 

Il^e, au jk'au, a sse ttuhim ll^e." 

He ha ha Ine kiii : u Akke a Inuih, h Suhi llkho 
(8515) il^e!" au hah ha jkarro tsutten hho ssa ( ) jnuih. 
laiti Ikuihlkuih e ssin Suhi ss'o lk'oussi,|| bin ha Ine 

(8511 ) * N llkuan +1, ti e, waita llho llkuan ss'o oa e. 

f !num-Opuonni kail |ku e. Ttu a Ikwai, kin Ine ta jk'oussi a. 

(8512') t Han +ka+kakken. 

§ N llkuan +1, ti e, ki-ta llnein llkuan ss'o oa l^kwaiya ; ta, 
ki llkuai Ine Iwkwaiya; ta, ki llkuan llnau, kf |ne e ^e^emi, kin 
yauki ttamQpua l^kwaiya. 

(8515') II H yauki +enn akka; ta, |k'e e n Ski ki, ki |ku e Ikueida; kin 
ta, +nerru Ikuinlkuin ka oa luki-ss'd |k'6ussi. 

' 0 0 3.0 


THE +NERRU AND HER HUSBAND. 


209 


(the earth from it). And he again dug it (the rice) 
out. He put it on the top (of the other). He put 
it on the top ; and ( ) the hag * became full. (8511) 

And he arose, he sought for other Bushman rice. 

He found other Bushman rice ; he dug out (the 
earth from) it. He dug it out. And he exclaimed : 

" Give me (thy) little kaross, •]* that I ( ) may put (8512) 
the Bushman rice upon it." And the wife said : J 
"We are not accustomed to put Bushman rice, 
having earth with it, into our back's kaross, we who 
are of the house of + nerru ." § And he exclaimed : 

" Give me, give me the little kaross, that I may 
put the' Bushman rice upon (it)." And the wife 
said: "Thou ( ) shouldst put the Bushman rice (8513) 
into the ground; for we are not accustomed to put 
Bushman rice, having earth with it, into our back's 
kaross." And he exclaimed : " Give me, give me 
the little kaross, that I may put the Bushman rice 
upon (it)." And the wife ( ) exclaimed : " Thou (8514) 
shouldst put the Bushman rice into the ground, that 
thou mayst cover over the Bushman rice." || 

And he exclaimed : "Give me the kaross, that 
I may put the Bushman rice upon (it) ! " while he 
snatched away ( ) the kaross. The wife's entrails, (8515) 

* I think that it seems to have been a springbok sack ( i.e . a bag (8511') 
made of springbok skin). 

f It is a little kaross. One skin (that is, the skin of one animal) 
they call Woussi. 

t She spoke gently {i.e. did not sing here). (8512') 

§ I think that their houses must have been numerous ; for they 
were numerous ; for, when they are little birds, they are not a little 
numerous. 

II With other earth. 


r 


(8514') 


210 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


t<5rro 8khe. # He, ha ha Ine kui : " U wwe ! n lha, 
(8516) wwd hi ! N kod sse lue te Iki ? " au laitiken ha ( ) 
ui, laitiken ha ine ta — 

" Ssi e +nerru llnein, 

Ssi tan yauki Ikweiten Ikoo, 

Ssi tssi jnuin. 

Ssi e ^nerru llnein, 

Ssi tan yauki Ikweiten Ikoo, 

, ° * * * § 3 D 

Ssi tssi Inuin : " 

• o 

x \ \ 

(8517) an hah ( ) ha Ine tta'i tan dda a Ikuihlkuih. Hah 
hd Ine ta — f 

u Ssi e 4=nerru llnein, 

Ssi tan yauki Ikweiten !k§o 
Ssi tssi Inuin." 

o 

(8518) He tiken e, ha ha Ine llnau, hah ss'o,J ( ) hari 
M Ine kui: " ll^koenya ti e, llka^ai ssin Iwkua jkhe 
ta hi, au Ikhwd Ikaueten e l^wan Ikm ; § ta, llka^uken 

(8519) Ihouken ^auki >*wa +hannuwa. A kun ( ) llwkoen, 
ti e, jkhwe Ikaueten e l^wah jkui Ikeya jk'aun llna 
Ikhwe." Hd, ha Opua^ai hd Ine jkwai Jkhe ; ha 
©puayaiten hd Ine Il^kden. Hah M Ine kui : 

(8520) "Opua^ai ( ) llkuah a, Igua kau Jkh^ya ssa." He 

f w . / 

tiken e, ha £6a ha Ine kui : " N llkuah ka, u sse Ine 
llwkoen; lika^uken Ihouken || llkuah ddoa ddi Ikou, 

* Han |ku ss*5. 

f Han Jkutta lla, au ha Ikam ||a llnein. 

J Ha llkuah |ku ss'5 llnein. 

§ Ha ©puayaiten a, ha Iwke ha, ha-ka JkuttenJkutten. 

|| N ||kuan +i, ti e, ha Iku l^ke ha ©pua^ai lha. 


(8517') 

(8518') 

(8520'j 


THE +NERRU AND HER HUSBAND. 


211 


which were upon the little kaross,* * * § poured down.f 
And he, crying, exclaimed : " Oh dear ! 0 my wife ! 

What shall I do ? " while the wife ( ) arose, the wife (8516) 
said (i.e. sang) — 

"We, who are of the house of + nhrru , 

We are not used to put earthy Bushman rice 
(Into) our hack's kaross ; 

We, who are of the house of + nerru , 

We are not used to put earthy Bushman rice 
(Into) our hack's kaross : " 

while she ( ) walked on replacing her entrails. She (8517) 
sang — X 

"We, who are of the house of %nerru, 

We are not used to- put earthy Bushman rice 
(Into) our hack's kaross." 

Therefore, her mother, when sitting, § ( ) exclaimed: (8518) 
" Look at the place to which (thy) elder sister went 
to seek food, for the noise of the wind is that which 
sounds like a person ; || for, (thy) elder sisters' 
husbands do not act rightly. Thou dost ( ) see that (8519) 
the noise of the wind is that which sounds like 
a person, singing to windward." And her daughter 
stood up ; her daughter looked. She (the daughter) 
exclaimed: " (Thy) daughter ( ) is the one who (8520) 
falling comes." Then her mother said : " I wish 
that ye may see; (thy) elder sisters' husbands do 


* I do not know well (about it), for my people were those who (8515') 
spoke thus ; they said that the + nerru' s entrails were formerly 
upon the little kaross. 

f She was sitting down. 

J She went along singing, as she went away home (to her (8517') 
mother's home). 

§ She was sitting at home. 

|| Her daughter was the one of whom she spoke, (of) her (8518') 
singing. 

I think that she was speaking of her daughter's husband. (8520') 


212 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8521) u hi yau e Ilka, hi llkuakka; ( ) hih Ihanlhan le 1 , 
u hi llkuakka." 

o D 

H£ tiken e, ha ha Ine jku^e |kkn I la ha Opua^ai ; 
hah Ine Han |kanh jnwa ha Opua^ai jk'oussi ; * hah 
(8522) ikann juhi llkho ( ) ha Opua^ai Ikuinlkuin, au jk'oussi, 

f r ^ 

he ha Ine llhin jkwe ha Opna^ai, hah Ine |kou ki 

Jkhe lla ha Opua^ai au llnem ; hah Ine llah Iki le ha 

/ 

Opua^ai au ha-ka llnem. 

(8523) H4 tiken ( ) e, ha ha Iku-g Ine |gdraka,*j* au ha 
Opua^ai ; au ha Opua^ai lha Ine ta, ha sse laiti, 
hah ha Iku-g Ine Igaraka. He tiken e, ha Opua^ai 
(8524) Ihhn Iku-g Ine Ikuiten ( ) ikarh Ha ha-ka Ik'e, au ha 
ha Iku-g Ine ta, ha Opua^ai lha Ikii sse jkuiten ; ta, 
hi ^auki llkuakka. He tiken e, ha Opua^ai lha ha 
(8525) Iku-g Ine Ikuiten, ( ) au hinj Iku-g Ine llehn ss'o. 


The +nerrtj, as a Bird. 

( Described by Ihan^kass'o.) 

(8525) +nkrru Inunu kah Iku luerri-Opua. Inhrru gwai- 
yaken a, Iku llkh<5a toi ; hih lh(5aka u t(5i gwai. 
(8525J')+nhrru laitiken a Iku jkuita, ( ) u t<5i laiti. H6 tiken 


(8521') 

(8523') 

(8525') 


* Ha xoaka jk'oussi llkan, e ssin Iku ss'o, he, ha ssin |ku 
Ikuwa hi. 

f |garaka=|kw§a, " angry." 

X +nerru; :f:nerru e l^kwalya. 


THE +NERRU, AS A BIRD. 


213 


mad things, as if they do not seem to understand ; 

( ) they marry among us (literally, i into us') as if (8521) 
they understood." 

Then she ran to meet her daughter; she went to 
put the little kaross * upon her daughter ; she, (8522) 
holding, put ( ) her daughter's entrails upon the 
little kaross ; and she bound up her daughter ; '(* she 
slowly conducted her daughter home; she went to 
take her daughter into her (the mother's) hut. 

Therefore, ( ) she was angry about her daughter ; (8523) 
when her daughter's husband wanted to come to his 
wife, she was angry. Therefore, her daughter's 
husband went back ( ) to his own people, when (8524) 
she had said that her daughter's husband should go 
back; for, they did not understand. Therefore, her 
daughter's husband went back ; ( ) while they $ (8525) 
continued to dwell (there). 


The +nerru, as a Bird. 

The ^nerru's bill is very short. The male ^n^rru (8525) 
is the one whose plumage resembles (that of) the 
ostrich ; it is black like the male ostrich. The female 
$nerru is the one whose plumage is white ( ) like(8525^') 
(that of) the female ostrich. Thus, they resemble 
the ostriches ; because the male + nerru are black, the 
female + nerru white. 

They eat the things which little birds usually eat, 
which they pick up on the ground. 


(8521') 


* Her mother's new little kaross, which had been unused 
(lit. " sitting "), and which she had put away. 

f With the four straps of the [Koussi, formed by the four legs of (8522') 


the springbok's skin. 

X the %nerru, many \nerru. 


(8525') 


214 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN POLKLOEE. 


(7206) 


(7207) 


(7208) 


e, 111 ta llkh<5a toi; an hin t&tti, +nkrruka tuken 
Ihoaka, +ndrruka Ikakaken Jkuita. 

' f \ t 

Hi llkuan Ikn hi tchuen e ^e^erm Ikweiten Ikn 

o D o o 

/ M ^ ^ 4. rv 

hi hi, he, hi Iku ttaminttam'm hi, au. jk'au. 


Y.— 72. 

L. 

THE DEATH OP THE IKHAU. 

( Dictated , in July , 1878, by Ihan+kass'o, who heard it from his 

9 

mother , Ixabbi-ah.) 

\ f 

Ikhali llkuan ha da ka — 

*3 0 3 3 

" Ta, 

N kwaii tan kan lla, 

• f 

jk'au I hin, 
jguru-lna ka jkao. 


" He, 

N kwan tan kah lla, 
jk'au Ihin, 

( ) Ixe-jkhwai ta jkao. 

" Ta, 

N kwan tan kah ||a, 

rVJ 9 

jk'au |hin, 
Jguru-lna ka jkao. 

" Ta, 

N kwan tan kah 1 1 a, 

9 

jk'au Ihin, 
l%e-jkhwai ta jkao." 


He, ha M llnau, au hah jk'au Ihin, ( ) jkaugen Ine 
kui, ll^abhu llkhd ha, au hah ka ha jk'au Ihin ; au 
hah llkuan sso (5a ka, ha ssuken Ik'au Ihin, Ikau ka 









¦ 







































The porcupine's footprints at one of the entrances to its hole. 

| hantyass'd, Sept. 4th, 1878. 



Mountains into which the j khdtt (a lizard of the Genus Agama) 
was changed when cut into two pieces. 

1. \guruAna. 2. 1%# \khwdi. 3. Ix$ 8 khwdi ta \Jcdu ka tt-Qputi. 

I haA^kass'd, 1878. 












1. I hdggen gwai , male mantis. 

2. I Tcaggen iaityi , female mantis. 

Diaikw^in, March , 1875. 


THE DEA.TH OF THE LIZAED. 


215 


They make grass nests on the ground, by the root 
of a bush. 

When not breeding, they are found in large 
numbers. 


Y.— 72. 

L. 


THE DEATH OE THE LIZAED. 

The Lizard * formerly sang— (7206) 

"For, 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 

\guru-\ntis pass. 

" And, 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 

( ) I pass. (7207) 

" For, 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 

[guru-lna's pass. 

" For, 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 

1%^-! khwai's pass." 


And, when he was passing through, ( ) the (7208) 
mountains f squeezing broke him, when he had 
intended to pass through ; for, he seems to have 
thought that he would spring through the mountain 
pass, which was like this (the narrator here showed 


* The j Jchdii was a man of the early race. He is now a lizard (7206 J ) 
of the genus Agama. " Chiefly found in rocky and sandy places. 

Many species distributed all through South Africa." 
f These mountains are large ones, near VittenXhin. 


216 


SPECIMEN'S OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jkao, e 1 u. He tiken e, Ikaugen ine I Iki a, Ikaugen 
(7209) Ine tssl kui Il^app ( ) a. He tiken e, ha llnwamtu 
Ine kukkui,* hin llkop, Ikhe lla, hin Ine ddi Igiiru-lna ; 
au ha Ikhwi-Iuken Ine kukui, hi h llkoo, Ikhe lla, hd e, 
Ine ddi I^e-lkhwai. 


Remarks on the preceding Story by the 
Harrator. 

(7210) H Iku +1, ti e, ha ss'o 6a ggauwa jhu, ha sse ssa 
ilnallna Ihu. Ta, n llkuah +1, ti e, Ikhwaitenlkhwaiten 
tettehni-ah e llkoeta Ihii, hi llkuah ss'o e, ha 6a 
(7211) ggauwa hi, ( ) ha sse ssa liehh hi. Hah llknah ss'o 
oa ggauwa jkaugen-Ikalka, ha sse ssa Ilehwa (i.e. 
Ileim ha). Ta, h +1, ti e, jkaugen-Ikalka a jhih au he 
(7212) ti. Ha a, ha llnau, au ha Sk'au Ihih ( ) ssa, hah Ine 
juhi jkhd ssa jkdu, ha sse Ilkaiten lljjd ikhe Ikua ll^a^u, 
he ha Ilkdaken lai Ilna-Ilkuarra ; he, ha Ilkdaken kan 
(7213) tatten llkde lla jkaugen-Ikalka; ( ) jkaugen-lkdlkbgen 
a, ha Ine lai lla ha; ha a, ha Ine llah Henna; ha ddda 
a, h +1, ti e, ha ss'o 6a ddda ggauwa ha. Hah jkwa, 
au hah ss'o 6a ggauwa ha. 


( 7209 ') 


* Hin Iku i Ikabbuken ttai. 


REMARKS ON PRECEDING STORY. 


217 


the first and second fingers of his left hand in 
a forked and almost upright position). Then, the 
mountains caught him thus (putting his fingers 
close together), the mountains bit, breaking ( ) (7209) 
him. Therefore, his forepart fell over * (and) stood 
still, it became \guru-\nd ; while his hinder part fell 
oyer (and) stood still ; it was that which became 
\ye-\khwcCi. 


Remarks on the preceding Story by the 
Narrator. 

I think that he seems to have been going to the (7210) 
red sand hills, that he might come (and) dwell at 
them. For, I think that the (shallow) pools, which 
lie among the red sand hills, seem to have been 
those towards which he was going, ( ) that he (7211) 

might come (and) live at them. He seems to have 
been going towards \kaugen-\ka\ka (a certain pool), 
that he might come (and) live at it. For, I think 
that \kaugen-\ka\ka is near this place. He is the 
one who, when he came passing ( ) through, would (7212) 
come along the 4 vlei that he might ascend, passing 
along the side of the hill; and he would altogether 
descend into Wna-Wkuarra (a certain river), and he 
would go quite down, along (the river bed) to 
\kmgen-\kq\ka. ( ) \kcaigen-\kd\ka would be the (7213) 
place where he descended; it was where he was 
going to dwell ; it must, I think, be the place 
towards which he appears to have been going. 

He broke (in twain) when he seems to have been 
going towards it. 


* It verily (?) turning over went. 


(7209') 




A GRASS BUSHMAN. 


Photographed at Cape Town in 1880. 





YI. Poetry . 

\ 







220 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(3237) 


(3238) 


(3239) 


VL— 42. 

B. 

IlGWATTEN-TA IKUTTEN IKUTTEN. 

DO • O • O 

Ha ha ha, 

Ha ha, 

ST a I ku lnmh +no h, 

S' a hha ^au Iku^e ; 

r 

Ta, Ikulnnm Iku a jku^e, 

Ha ha ha, 

Ha ha. 

ST a Iku-gjnuih +no h. 

( ) yk yk yk, 
yk yd, 

9 „ 1 

H a Ikulnum +no n, 

ST a, hha ydn ddda Iku^e, 

yk yd yd, 
yd yd, 

ST a kkumuih +no h, 

Gwattau* hha ^iiu ddoa ^ix^e. 

yk yk yk, 
yk yd, 

( ) llgwatten a Skujniiiii +no ha, 

Ha a, hha ^au ddoa !ku^e, 

yk yk yk, 
yk yd, 

Gwatten a hha ydn ddoa ^ir^e, 

Ha >*auki ddoa khwiya. 


( B238 ? ) * The Cat has three names, viz., Wgwdtten , Wgwattau, and yiten. 

Here it " sings with the upper part of its mouth" (making y). 
Au hah tatti, ha \he-Tckd e yiten . "For, it feels that its other name 
is yiten" 


THE CAT ? S SONG. 


221 


YL— 42. 

B. 

THE CAT'S SONG. 

Ha # ha ha, (3237) 

Ha ha, 

I am the one whom the Lynx derides, 

I am the one who did not run fast; 

For, the Lynx is the one who runs fast. 

Hd ha ha, 

Ha ha. 

I am the one whom the Lynx derides. 

( ) yd ya ya, (3238) 

yd ya, 

I am the one whom the Lynx derides. 

I am the one who could not run fast, 
ya yd ya, 
yd ya, 

I am the one whom the Lynx derides, 
u The Cat could not run fast." 

yd ya ya, 
yd ya, 

) The Cat is the one whom the Lynx derides, (3239) 
"It is the one who could not run fast," 
yd ya ya, 
yd ya, 

" The Cat is the one who could not run fast, 

It was not cunning. 


* Here the cat opens its mouth wide in singing. 


(3237') 


222 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLOKE. 


(3240) 

(3241) 

(3241*) 


(2158) 

(3240') 

(2158') 


Ha ddoa g^bbitengebbiten ; 

( ) Ka, kku-gmum kku a kwakka, 

Gwatta-ken >aukl kwakka. 

3 0 3 

Gwatta-ken kkwan* khwiya. 

yk yk y&, 
yk yk. 

Gwdtten a kku-gmum kkakken ha. 

( ) Ha a hha ^au ddoa |ku;£e, 

Ha ssm ddda khwiya. 

Ka, kku-gmum kku a khwiya. 

Haggla hdggla haggla 
Haggla haggla, 

( ) Haggle heggle heggle, 

Heggli, 

Heggli h^ggli heggli 
Heggli h ! 

VL— 44. 

B. 

THE SONG OF THE (QUITE NT. f 

Ikauogen, Ikauogen, 

Ikauogen, Ikauogen ! 

f r 

*¦ IcJcivan stands for Wkuan here. 

| Singular \guiten, plural \gui\gui, Vulpes Caama , the Caama fox. 


THE SONG OF THE CAAMA FOX. 


223 


It did foolish, things; 

( ) For, the Lynx is one who understands, (3240) 

The Cat does not understand.' ' 

The Cat (nevertheless) is cunning. 

yd ya ya, 
ya ya. 

The Cat is the one about whom the Lynx talked. 

( ) "It is the one who could not run fast." (3241) 
It had to he cunning.* 

For, the Lynx is one who is cunning. 

Haggla t haggla haggla 
Haggla haggla, 

( ) Heggle heggle haggle, (3241£) 

Heggli, 

Heggli heggli heggli 
Heggli n ! 


YI.— 44. 

B. 


THE SONG OF THE CAAMA FOX. 


Crosser of the Spoor, Grosser of the Spoor, J 
Crosser of the Spoor, Crosser of the Spoor ! 


(2158') 


* Eeference is here made to the Cat's way of doubling when (3241 ? ) 
pursued. 

| The narrator here explains that the Cat " talks with its 
tongue ", assenting to what it has been saying. 

J The Caama Fox is called " Crosser of the Spoor", because (2158 ') 
it avoids the dog nicely when the dog chases it, and, turning 
suddenly, runs hack, crossing the dog's spoor (behind it), while 
the dog is racing on in front, thinking to catch the Caama Fox 
by so doing. 


224 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2155) 

(2158) 

(2159') 


(2156') 


Ikauwa jguiten,* 

Ikauwa jguften ! f 

Ikauwa I guilt i, 

Ikauwa jguitti ! 

YL— 45. 

B. 

THE SONGS OF THE BLUE CKANE.J 

i-§ 

Ik' oka kkumm e lia Skiitten hi ; hah Ikutten ha 
llkulna, ti e Igara swenya ha ilk ulna ; hah jkutta lla — 

u Igara Ikn swenya h llkulna, 

Igara kan swenya h llkulna, 

Igara hah|| swenya h llkulna, 

* The narrator explains it is as if it said: u I cross another 
j gu'iteris spoor" (i.e. y one who had been there, and has gone away 
hunting). 

f Han jkutten ti e, jkuin ssho ti e, jkum sse Ika ha, au 
jkuihyah yauki sse Ika ha ; ta, ha a Ikauwa jguiten jnwa 
(jguften-kkd Inwa). Ha Iku a, ha Ikum yauki ta Ika ha ; ta, 
jkum |ku a, ka Ikuken au llku ; au ha Iku-g Ine lla llgaua tta 
4g(e)ou, au ha ^auki ttan llku; au jkumya Ine ddurru j£udhni, 
au Ikuinta Ikui. 

• o • o 

J The Blue Crane ( AntJiropoides Stanleyanus ) was formerly 
a person of the early race. 

§ All blue cranes (both male and female) are said to sing 
this song. 

|| Ha Ikeh jkwai, hm l^kwalya ; ha Iken Ikii jkwai. Igara 
tsa^aitaken l^kwaiya, Igara Ikeh jkwai. Tiken llkellkeya ha 
tsa^au jkwai, ha tsa^aiten e Iwkwaiya, hin e. 
































. 




' 





)k'd \aiti , blue crane, female. 


\ $ 

Wd gw at , blue crane, male. 
IAa'^^(W« y o, March 2nd, 1879. 





T6i \aiti, female ostrich. 

I handle ail'd, Jan. 2 Oth, 1879. 




\\nii-\\nii. Huts (Bushman huts). 









gc 


I. 


§ 


> 












/ 

























Vkhwm \a%iyl, female gemsbok. 


Dtii\kw%in, April, 1875. 



THE SONGS OF THE BLUE CBANE. 


225 


Cross the Caama Fox's spoor. 

Cross the Caama Fox's spoor ! # 

Cross the Caama Fox's spoor, 

Cross the Caama Fox's spoor ! 

VI.— 45. 

B. 

THE SONGS OF THE BLUE CRANE. 

1 . 

It is the Blue Crane's story which it sings; it ^2155) 
sings (about) its shoulder, namely, that the "krieboom" 
berries are upon its shoulder ; it goes along singing — 

"The berries are upon my shoulder, 

The berries are upon my shoulder, 

The berry it f is upon my shoulder, 


* It sings that the dog appears to think that he will kill it; (2159') 

but the dog will not kill it ; for it is the one who crosses the v 

spoor of (another) Caama Fox. It is the one which that dog- 

will not kill; for the dog is the one who will nearly (?) die of 

fatigue, when it (the Caama Fox) has gone to lie peacefully in 
the shade ; while it does not feel tired ; while the dog painfully 
goes hack to his master. 

f Its name is one; they (the berries) are numerous; its name is (2156') 
(still) one. The "krieboom" berries are many; the name of the 
berries is one. It appears as if its berry were one, (but) they 
are many. 

The word I gara is the same in the singular and plural, viz., 

\gdra (or I gara tsa^au) a Xkwai, "one I gara berry," and \gdra 
(or I gara tsaxaiteri) e \\jkwdiga, "many I gdra berries." The I gara 
is a part of the Wna, or "krieboom", the berries of it, as far as 
I can understand. They are said to be round, white, and "hard" 

(i.e., they have something hard inside them). The outside flesh 
is sweet. They are eaten by the Koranna and the Bushmen. The 
women go to the "krieboom", pick the berries, put them into 
a bag and take them home to eat, first mixing them with other 
berries. They do not eat them unmixed, on account of their teeth, 
as they fear that the sweetness of the berries might otherwise 
render their teeth unfit to chew meat well. 


Q 


( 2156 ) 


(2167) 


226 SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

Igara kan swenya n llkulna. 

( ) Igara kan k&n Ike hh<5, 
rrru kan Ike hho ; 

Igara kan kan Ike hh<5 , 
rrru kan Ike hho, 

DDD O ' 

kan kan Ike hho ; 

Igara rru kan Iku ha." 

2 . 

{When running away from a man.) 

Ilkurru a jkuita, 
llkxlrru a jkuita, 

Ilkurru a jkuita! 

3. 

( When walking slowly , leaving the place [walk of peace]. ) 
Ilkurru jkuita, 

Ilkurru jkuita ! 

4. 

( When it flaps its wings.) 

Ilgou ji, 

Ilgou ji, 

Errru rrra, 

3 3 3 3 0 7 

Erru rrra, 

Eru rra ! 


THE SONGS OF THE BLUE CRANE. 


227 


The berries are upon my shoulder. 

( ) The berries are up here (on its shoulder),* (2156) 
Rrru are up here; 

The berries are up here, 

Rrru are up here, 

Are up here; 

The berries rru are put away (upon)it (its shoulder)." 

2 . 

( When running away from a man.) 

A splinter of stone which is white, t (2157) 

A splinter of stone which is white, 

A splinter of stone which is white. 

3. 

( When walking slowly , leaving the place [walk of peace].) 

A white stone splinter, 

A white stone splinter. 

4. 

( When it flaps its wings.) 

Scrape (the springbok skinj for) the bed. 

Scrape (the springbok skin for) the bed. 

Rrrru rrra, 

Rrru rrra, 

Rru rra! 

O Z> o 

* II hallo cannot explain why the berries do not roll off ; he says ( 2156 ' 
that he does not know. This is a song of the very old people, the v 
" first " old people, which was in his thoughts. 

f II kabbo explains that the bird sings about its head, which is ( 2157 ' 
something of the shape of a stone knife or splinter, and has white 
feathers. He says that Bushmen, when without a knife, use 
a stone knife for cutting up game. They break a stone, knocking 
off a flat splinter from it, and cut up the game with that. The 
Grass Bushmen, II kabbo says, make arrowheads of white quartz 
points (crystal points, as far as could he understood). 

I The Bushmen make beds (».*., skins to sleep on) from the 
skins of springbok and goats. 


228 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


VI.— 46. 

B. 

THE OLD WOMAN'S SONG. 

First Version . 

[Dictated, in September , 1871, ly lajkunta.) 

( 168 ) Inutarraken jkutten; jkut-ta I la, tta kau jkutten 

t f 

Inutarraken tta kau jkut-ta lla an jgwai — 
u Jgwaitarra, 

/VJ 

jgwaitarra, 

^ f /VJ 

Ikammam I kammam ho Inutarra au llkau ; 

o O 7 

Inutarra i kukui, 

Han +ko shin sha ; 

Hail kkoah Ihin, 

— t rs ^ J 

Han jkuarre jgwai, 
jgwai lie, 

j 

jgwain Iki jgwai." 

Second Version . 

(2160) jgwaitara, 

jgwaitara, 

Ikhmmen Ikammeii hho Inutara, 

o — o — J 

nKj 

Au Inutara luhitta llkau. 

• o 


THE OLD WOMAN'S SONGL 


229 


YI.— 46. 

B. 

THE OLD WOMAN'S SONG. 

First Version . 

The old Woman sings; goes singing along; sings (158) 
as she goes ; the old W oman sings as she goes along 
about the Hyena — 

" The old she Hyena, 

The old she Hyena, 

Was carrying off the old Woman from the old hut; 

The old Woman in this manner, 

She sprang aside, 

She arose, 

She beat the Hyena. 

The Hyena, herself, 

The Hyena killed * the Hyena." 

Second Version. 

The old she Hyena, (2160) 

The old she Hyena, 

Was carrying off the old Woman, 

As the old Woman lay in the old hut.f 


* She killed herself, by casting herself violently upon the (158') 
pointed rock on which she had intended to cast the old Woman 
who was upon her hack; but the old Woman sprang aside and 
saved herself. 

f The old Woman, who was unable to walk, lay in an old, (2160') 
deserted hut. Before her sons left her, they had closed the circle 
[sides] of the hut, as well as the door- opening, with sticks from 
the other huts, leaving the top of the hut open, so that she should 
feel the sun's warmth. They had left a fire for her, and had 
fetched more dry wood. They were obliged to leave her behind, 
as they were all starving, and she was too weak to go with them to 
seek food at some other place. 


230 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5668) 

(5669) 


(8468) 


(8469) 


(5661') 
(8729') 


71.— 82 . 

L, 

A SONG SUNG BY THE STAB |GAUNU, 
AND ESPECIALLY BY BUSHMAN WOMEN. 

(Dictated, in December, 1875, by Dialkwain, who heard it from his 
paternal grandmother, Ttuobbo-ken jkaukn.) 

Ilgdrraken # -lkwa'itenttu ^ a llkhou bberri-ssm ? 
+ku-> > a,iii + kan llkuan a llkhou bberri-ssm. 

J, ° 3 

( ) A ^a llkhou bbdrri-ssin ? 

+kn-yam kah llkuan a llkhou bberri-ssih. 

O © 3 *" 


YI.— 83. 

L. 

SIRIUS AND CANOPUS. 

(Given, in June, 1879, by lhamtkass'o.) 

N jko'ite Ttuai-an llkuan Iku a, ka ssih jkeya Iki 
llwkbagu. Ha Ind ta— 

u jkutten-jkhou ! 

Ikutten-lkhou ! 

• © ® 

Kah dabba Ilka 
ll^koa-gu ! 

( ) ll^koa-gu 
Kah dabba llkd, 

Ikutten-lkhou ! 

• o' • 

llwkoa-gu 
Kah dabba Ilka 

D 

Ikutten-lkhou ! 

• © ® 

* llgaraken Iku e u umtjes " ; Ixam-ka-lk'eten liken hi. 
f The word \hu-yam has the same form in the singular and 
plural. 


STAR SONGS. 


231 


VL— 82. 

L. 

A SONG SUNG BY THE STAE IGAUNU, 

AND ESPECIALLY BY BUSHMAN WOMEN. 

Does the II garraken* flower open? (5668) 

The ^Jcu-yam f is the one which opens. 

( ) Dost thou open? (5669) 

The + ku-yam is the one which opens. 


VI.— 83. 

L. 

SIEIUS AND CANOPUS. 

My (step)grandm other, Ttuai-an , was the one who (8468) 
used to rejoice about Canopus. She said — 

" Sirius ! 

Sirius ! 

Winks like 
Canopus ! 

( ) Canopus (8469) 

Winks like 
Sirius ! 

Canopus 
Winks like 
Sirius ! 

* The || garraJcen are bulbs; the Bushmen dig them out. (5661* 
f Dimorphotheca annua , a daisy -like flower, in blossom 
Mowbray in August, 1879. ' 


232 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jkhtten-jkhou 
Kan <Mbba Ilka 
llwkoa-gu ! " 

(8470) au h jk<5ite a tatti, ( ) j^ii* wa e. 


VI.— 91. 

L. 

THE SONG OF THE KWA-KWARA.t 

3 3 I 

( Related , in March, 1879, by Ihan+kass'o. ) 

(6139*) N jkwi-Opua, 

Ilka jh(5a n Ina. 

• f 

H jkwi-Opua, 

H jkwi-Opua, 

Ilka jhoa n Ina. 

(6139) O ssi Iku-g Ine jkhw^ten kho ha, ha Iku-g Ine 
llkhou Skui ; ha Iku-g Ine: " War a llkhau, war a 

9 9 9 

(6140) llkhau, wara llkhau, llkhau llkhau, llkhau, ( ) wara 

9 9 9 9 

llkhau, wara llkhau, llkhau, llkhau, llkhau, llkhau ! " 
Hah llnau, 6 ha jkhe jk'au, han ka : u A wa, a wa, 

t 9 r<J 

a wa, £ wa ! " 6 ha Ikhe Ik'au. 

3 ' 3 * 


(8469') 


* Ssi llkuan k& ka j^u, au ha a l^kwaiya. 
f JEupodotis afra , Black Koran, Knorhaan (Brandkop). 


THE SONG OF THE BUSTARD* 


233 


Sirius 

Winks like 
Canopus ! 

While my grandmother felt that ( ) food was (8470) 
abundant. # 


VI.— 91. 

L. 

THE SONG OP THE BUSTABD. 

My younger brother-in-law, (61 39') 

Put my head in the fire.f 
My younger brother-in-law, 

My younger brother-in-law, 

Put my head in the fire. 

When we startle it up, it flies away; it (cries) : (6139 ) 
" War a II khan, war a Wkhmi, war a Wkhau, Wkhau II khau, 

Wkhau , ( ) wara Wkhau , wdra Wkhau, Wkhau, Wkhau, (6140) 
Wkhau, II khau ! " When it stands on the ground, 
it says: "A wa, d wa, a wa, a wa! v when it stands 
on the ground. 


* We are wont to say Jxu, when food is abundant, 
f When the " Knorhaan Brandkop" was still a man, his head 
was thrust into the fire by his brother-in-law, in order to punish 
him for having surreptitiously married a sister. Since then he is 
only a bustard. 


(8469') 


234 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(856P) 


(6138') 


(6138) 


YL— 101. 

L. 

THE SONG OE THE SPRINGBOK 
MOTHERS* 

{Dictated, in June, 1879, ly lhan+kass'o, who heard it from his 
mother, Ixabbi-aii, from her mother, ^kammi, and from his 

-•vj f 3 J 

stepgrandmother , Ttuai-an.) 

Wai llualluarraken h& ka — 

o o o d 

"A-a hh, 

Wai-Opua wwe, 

Opuoinya ki. 

A-a hn, 

"Wai-Opua wwe, 

©puoinya ki." 


YI.— 106. 

L. 

IlKABBO'S SONG ON THE LOSS OE HIS 
TOBACCO POUCH. 

{Dictated, in January , 1878, ly lhan+kass'5.) 

I^uru e, 
f^uru e u, 
l^uru kan Ike u. 

I^uru e, 
l^urn e u, 
l^uru kan Ike u. 

l^uru, lian > J auki Ine luhi, o Jkum Ikil-g Ine ssaii 
hoa ha a, ha-ka llho, au llga. e, ha Ikil-g Ine 

* This song occurs in the fable of the Anteater, the young 
Springbok, the Lynx, and the Partridge (IY. — 42. l.). 


THE SONG OF THE SPRINGBOK MOTHERS. 


235 


YL— 101. 

L. 

THE SONG OF THE SPRINGBOK MOTHERS. 

The Springbok mothers sang (soothing their (8561') 
children) — 

"A-a hh, 

O Springbok Child ! 

Sleep for me. 

A-a hh, 

0 Springbok Child ! 

Sleep for me." 


YI. — 106. 

L. 

IlKABBO'S SONG ON THE LOSS OF HIS 
TOBACCO POUCH.* 

Famine it is, (6138') 

Famine it is, 

Famine is here. 

Famine it is, 

Famine it is, 

Famine is here. 

Famine [" tobacco -hunger " is meant here] — he (6138) 
did not smoke, because a dog had come in the 

* It was stolen by a hungry dog, named " Blom ", which belonged 
to \gdu\ntii. 


236 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5101) 

(5102) 

(5103) 


kk6an u i an llga, i; han Iku-g Ine Jko llho. He e, 
han Iku-g Ine ll^a, han tten, o hah ^auki Ine luhi. 
He, ssi-g Ine jkagen kau llga'ue Ikilki llho. Ssi'ten 
)Vuki Ine Ini llho. 


VI.— 108. 

L. 

THE BROKEN STRING* 

(Dictated, in July , 1875, in the Kathop dialect , by Diajkwfin, icho 
heard it from his father , 

Ik'e kah dd<5a e, 

• =j 7 ^ 

jkahn jkwa ka jnuin. 

H£ tfken e, 

Ti Ine ( ) Ikwe ua kka, 

I, 

0 jnuin a ddoa jkwa ka. 

He tiken e, 

Ti-g Ine >huki ttah-a kka, 

Ti ka ssm Ikwei tta kka, 

L 

Ta, 

Ti Iku-g Ine tta hhoken jkheya ka, 

( ) O jnuin a Jkwa kka. 

He tiken e, 

— ° * ^ 

Ti yaiiki jne tta Ihannuwa kka, 

!. 

* The above is a lament, snng by xda-ttih after the death of 

/ V 

his friend, the magician and rain-maker, \nuih\kui-ten ; who died 
from the effects of a shot he had received when going about, by 
night, in the form of a lion. 


THE BROKEN STRING. 


237 


night (and) carried off from him his pouch. And 
he arose in the night, he missed his pouch. And 
then he again lay down, while he did not smoke. 
And we were early seeking for the pouch. We did 
not find the pouch. 


YL— 108. 

L. 

THE BROKEN STRING. 

People were those who (5101) 

Broke for me the string. 

Therefore, 

The place ( ) became like this to me, (5102) 

On account of it, 

Because the string was that which broke for me. # 

Therefore, 

The place does not feel to me, 

As the place used to feel to me, 

On account of it. 

For, 

The place feels as if it stood open before me, 

( ) Because the string has broken for me. (5103) 
Therefore, 

The place does not feel pleasant to me, 

On account of it. 

* Now that " the string is broken", the former " ringing sound 
in the sky " is no longer heard by the singer, as it had been in the 
magician's lifetime. 


238 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8555) 

(8556) 

(8557) 

(8558) 

(8555') 

(8556') 

(8557') 


VI.— 109. 

L. 

THE SONG OF iNUlNUMMA-lKWITEN. 

® • • © 

(. Dictated , in June , 1879, by Ihan^kass'd, who heard it from his 
maternal grandfather , Ts'atsi.) 

r 

Inulnumma-lkwiten ,* llkuah ha da ka — 

" Hn-n, hh; 

if Ikhi Ikouken e ^wa; 

' - 

Hn-n, hh. 

\ ' 

N Ikhi Ikouken e >*wa ; 

° ' 

( ) Hn-n, hh; 
v . \ 

K Ikhi Ikouken e TVa." 

• o 

/ 9 * x 9 • 9 

llkhellkheten Ikii e. U jkomyan ka ssih Iku ka, 
jnujnumma-jkwfta ha ka — 

"Hhn, hh; 

* X 

N Ikhi Ikouken e >Va; 

• o / 

\ X 

( ) Hn-n, hh, 

N Ikhi Ikouken e ywa." 

• o 

\ 

Au n jko'ihyk ka, ssi sse %u. u lkaulkau.ru, f h& Ine 
ta, Inulnumma-lkwiten ha ka ka — 

" Hn-n, hh; 

() if Ikhi jkouken e ) J wa ; 

Hn-n, hh ; 

if Ikhi Ikouken e ) J wa," 

• o 

* jkui a hi eh e jkuilkufta, ha Ine |ku Ikhaulkhau Ikam. hi, 
ha Ine Iku jnujnurri jho hi. 1ST ti e, jkwiten jkui'ta; he ti 
hih e, n +1, ti e, ha Ike ss'o e " Wit-mond'\ 

Inulnumma-lkwftaken |ku e llkhellkhe. Ikuiten Iku a Inulnumm 

• • - o oo » * 

jkwiten, kokonn jkwiten. ( ) He ti'ken e, ha e jkotta-kkoe. 
f Ssi jkwi-i, Ikaulkauru llna, au ssi Hgwiten llna. 


THE SONG OF INOINUMMA-IKWITEN. 


239 


YI. — 109. 

L. 


THE SONG OF INUINUMMA-IKWITEN. 

\nu\numma-\kwtten * formerly said (sang)— (8555) 

" Hn-n, hi ; 

I kill children who cry; 

Hn-n, hi. 

I kill children who cry; 

( ) Hn-n, hh; (8556) 

I kill children who cry." 


A beast of prey (he, \nu\nummaAkwiten) is. My 
grandfather used to say (that) \nu\numma-\kwiten 
formerly said — 

"Hn-n, hi; 

I kill children who cry; 

( ) Hn-n, hi, 

I kill children who cry." 

When my grandfather wished that we should leave 
off making a noise, f he said that \nu\numma-\kwiten 
formerly used to say — 

" Hn-n, hn; 

( ) I kill children who cry; 

Hn-n, hi; 

I kill children who cry." 


(8557) 


(8558) 


# The narrator gave the following explanation of \nu\numma- 
Mvw'iten's name : — 

* o 

"A man who eats great (pieces of) meat, he cuts them off, he (85550 
puts them into his mouth. I think that eggs are white ; therefore, 

I think that his name seems to be ' White-Mouth 

" \nti\numma-\kwiten is a beast of prey. A man was the one 
who gobbled eggs, swallowed down eggs. ( ) Therefore, he was (85560 
[his name was] Ykotta-kkoe" Reference is here made to a man v 
of the early race, who swallowed ostrich eggs whole, and is the 
chief figure in a legend related by \hah%lcass'6 (V. — 56. z.). 

f We were calling out, making a noise there, as we played. (8557 ? ) 


240 SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

He, ha Ine tui jkhwa-Opuk >wa llna, ha Ine llkou 
ha, au IkhwS-Opua >"wa llna, ha Ine llkou Ikam lla 
(8559) ( ) ha, llkho l^uerri ha, l^uerrl jkhe lla llneih, 
a jkhwa-Opuk ^wa llna ha. H& Iku-g Ine ssuken, 
ssiiken le llneih. Ha Iku-g Ine kui Hnfp(p),* au 
(8560) jkhwa-Opua, M Iku-g Ine ssuken ki ( ) Ihin lla ha. 
Ha Iku-g Ine lla, kkohn te ha. Ha Iku-g Ine ttai. 


* The second p is almost whispered here. 


iNUlNUMMA-lKWfTEN. 

• • • o 


241 


And (when) he hears a little child crying there, 
he follows the sound to it, while the little child is 
crying there, he, following the sound, goes to ( )(8559) 
it, approaches it stealthily, approaching stealthily, 
reaches the hut, in which the little child is crying. 

He springs, springs into the hut. He catches hold 
of the little child, he springs, taking ( ) it away. (8560) 
He goes to swallow it down. He departs. 




A BUSHMAN FAMILY. 


Photographed at Salt River in 1884. 




B. HISTORY (NATURAL AND 
PERSONAL). 


VII. Animals and their Habits — Adventures with 
them — and Hunting. 


244 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


YIL— 66. 


THE LEOPARD AND THE JACKAL. 

( Dictated in 1871.) 

(354) Kbroken ll^au Iki llkaue, au Ilkaueten Ika waL 
K(5roken Ine n^eill^ei, hah Ine tan-i llkaue au waita 

(354') a. ( ) Han boro, hah tan-i, au hah tatti e koro 
Iku e. He ti hih e, ha Ikii boro, hah Ilkwan tkh-i, 
hah tatti kbro Iku e. He ti hih e, ha Iku boro au 
ha tah-i, hah Ilkwan ka llkaue a ha a, ha si ha, ha 
si ll^am ha. 

(354) ( ) He ti hih e, Ilkaueten Ine jkoeih i, Ilkaueten 
Ine Iki ha, Ilkaueten Ine ts'i Ikuken ha, hah Ine ho 

(355) ha, hah Ine llaii Iki le ha au Ikubbi; ( ) he ti hih 
e hah Ine Inau ti ha. 


YIL— 121. 

L . 

DOINGS OF THE SPRINGBOK. 

(Dictated in July , 1878, by Ihan+kass'd.) 

r 

(7236) Wai lluara llkuah ka llnau, au ha llkua Ilk, au ha 
Ski wai-Opua a +ehni, ha Iguohna,^ au ha llkua Ilk; 

(7237) hah ln£ ta: "a, a, a," ( ) au ha llkua Ilk; h£ tiken 
e, hi ta, S^oa tss'ain, i, au hi tktti, hi l^kwaiya; 
au waita Ika'uka ll^amki Twa, au hi ^baken-gguwa 
Twa. Hi ^baken-ggii Ine ta : "a, |, a," waita 

(7236') * Au ha tatti, ha pnerhmi ki lla Jkhwa ; ha Ine jguonna, au 

Skhwa llgwiten. 

(7240') Ti e, h llkellke ss'o au wai, I, hih e, h Iluhai, I. 


THE LEOPARD AND THE JACKAL. 


245 


VII.— 66. 

B. 

THE LEOPARD AND THE JACKAL. 

The jackal watches the leopard, when the leopard (354) 
has killed a springbok. The jackal whines (with 
uplifted tongue), he begs the leopard for springbok 
flesh. ( ) He howls, he begs, for he is a jackal, (354 J ) 
Thus he howls, he indeed begs, because he is 
a jackal. Therefore he howls when he begs, he 
indeed wants the leopard to give him flesh, that he 
may eat, that he also may eat. 

( ) Then the leopard is angry, the leopard kills (354) 
him, the leopard bites him dead, he lifts him up, 
he goes to put him into the bushes; ( ) thus he (355) 
hides him. 


VII.— 121. 

L. 

DOINGS OF THE SPRINGBOK. 

The mother springbok is wont to do thus, as she (7236) 
trots along, when she has a springbok kid which 
is little, she grunts, * as she trots along; she says — 

"a, a, a," f ( ) as she trots along. Therefore they (7237) 
(the springbok) make a resounding noise (?), because 
they are numerous ; while the springbok kids also 
cry (bleat), while their mothers cry (grunt). Their 
mothers say — "a, a, a," the springbok kids say — 

* Because she protectingly takes along the child, she grunts, as (7236' ) 
the child plays. ' 

f Here the narrator made a grunting noise which, he said, 
was " in his throat " ; and about which he remarked— ( ) " When (7240 J ) 
I sit imitating the springbok, then I cough, on account of it." 


246 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(7238) jkauka In6 ta: u me, me, ( ) me," au hi ^6aken-ggu 
Ine ta: d, d," au hi jguonna. Waita jkauka 

In 6 ta: "me, me, me, me," au hi ^oaken-ggu In6 
ta : cc a, d, au hi jguonna lie touken. 

(7239) He tfken e, # i ta ku: ( ) llkellke wej dken Ikii 

r ~ r r ^ J _ 

a tui, ti e llnun, hi e, hi h Iku j^wa tss'ain. He tiken 

e, h Iku ka, n ssin ssuen ti e. Ta, hh waita gwa'i 

(7240) e jkh6 ta, hi e, ssa Ikii Ine ttai, jko'u ttin sse ( ) 

touken u ; au hi tdtti, n Iku-g Ine tta ; he, hi 

yauki Ine Ini n; hi koa Iku-g Ine ttai, jko'u ttin 

sse touken ii, au u-g Ine llnun lid ii; hi koa Iku-g 
\ 

Ine ttai, Ikou ttin sse touken ii." 

VII. — [70a. 

~ B. 

HABITS OF THE BAT AND THE 
PORCUPINE. 

(. Related in March , 1875, in the Kathop dialect, by Dfajkwain, who 
heard it from his father, ^aa-ttin, and his mother , ^kamme-an.) 

(4378) Mamaii +kakka ke, ti e, 1 1 gotten *j* llnau 6 llgau- 
^ukenj llnau ha kah llna, ti e, ha lwkua-a ttin he, 
ll^ettaken yaiiki ssa, ta ll^etten Ikii llna ha, 6 ha 
(4379) l^kua-a ttin. ( ) Ti e, ha-g Ine jkuiten, I, hin e, 
ll^etten Ine jke ssa ha jkoa, I; hih e, n Ine +en-na, 
ti e, llgau^ii oa ss'o jkiiityi. 

(7238 ? ) * He tiken e, lxam-ka-jk'e ta ka : "llkellke we ya ! hah 

llkhoa sse Iku ppo; ta, a Iku a llwkoen waita jkauken. Ta, 
a Iku a ll^koen, waita jkaukaken llkhoa ssi Iku ppo. 

(4378 5 ) f llxetten Ike kko e jgogen. 

J Wgauxu, \xo, and | Jchogen are three names for the porcupine. 
The last of the three is the one to be used by girls. 


DOINGS OF THE SPRINGBOK. 


247 


"me, me, ( ) me," while their mothers say — -(7238) 
"a, a, a," as they grunt. The springbok children 
say — "me, me, me, me," while their mothers say — 

"a, a, a," as they grunting go forward. 

Therefore,* we are wont to say — ( ) "0 beast of (7239) 
prey ! thou art the one who hearest the place behind, 
it is resonant with sound. Therefore, I said that 
I would sit here. For these male springbok which 
stand around, are those which will go along, passing 
behind ( ) you; because I am lying down, and (7240) 
they do not perceive me; they will have to(?) go 
along, passing behind you, when ye have gone 
behind (the hill); they will have to(?) go along, 
passing behind you." 


VII.— 70a. 

B. 

HABITS OF THE BAT AND THE 
POBCUPIHE. 

Mamma said to me that the bat,f when the (4378) 
porcupine is still at the place where it is seeking 
about for food, does not come, for the bat remains 
with it, while it is seeking about for food. ( ) When (4379) 
it (the porcupine) returns home, then it is that the 
bat comes to its hole ; J then I know that the 
porcupine appears to have returned. 

* Therefore, the Bushmen are wont to say: " 0 beast of prey! (7238') 
it (the herd of springbok) seems as if it will arise ; for thou art the 
one who seest the springbok's children. For thou art the one 
who seest (that) the springbok's children seem as if (they) would 
arise." (They had been lying down, or, as the narrator expressed 
it, " sitting.") 

f The bat's other name is I \\gogen. 

f The bat inhabits the same hole as the porcupine. 


(4378') 

(4379) 


248 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(4380) Maman Iwkeya ke a, ti e, n Ine ssin jkoasse ( ) 
llgau^u, o ka Ina ll^etten ; hih e, h llkuan Ine +eh-na, 

f v f 

ti e, llgau^u llkuan llkhda Ine ssa ; ta, ll^etten llkuan 
Ine ssa. He-g n Ind sse ^auki Opuoin, i ; ta-g ii Ine 
(4381) sse ( ) llkhau a llgau^u; ta, llgau^il llnau, ha-g Ine 
I ko ssa, n Ine ddi kui ta Opuoin, n Ine ll^dro llumm 
llgau^u; ta, llgau^u Iki e tss'a a, ha ka llnau, o ha 
(4382) Iko ssa, ha-g Ine ( ) ttai Ikotten i; o hd ka i ^a 
sse +enh ll^ke a, ha ssa a; o ha ka ha sse Ikii ssa 

r f 

le jkoa, o i Iku I eta Opuoin. lie tiken e, ha ttai 
(4383) kui tta Opuoin o i-i, i; o hail ka ha sse ( ) Iku 
sse, o I I eta Opuoin, ha sse Jkhou ti e, la (5a ddoa 
jka lla ha, o jk(5a, ti e, Ikui ddda a llkuitya ha 
d jk(5a. He ha-g Ind Iku llnau, jkuiten leta ©ptioih, 
(4384) ( ) hah Iku kwakkenkkwakki Ihin, o ha jkhouwa 

f r^j r 

Ikui Ikw'ai. Hd tiken e, ha ka Ikii a hi, i ddi ku 

• O —y O' ' 

ta Opuoin, o ha ka ha sse jkhou, ti e, IgoTiwa 
Inu e, i. 

(4385) ( ) Hd tiken e, mama kah +kakka ke, n sse 

llnau o ka ki-ssa ttah Opuoin, n sse Ine +enh, ti 

f t f W r 

e, llgau^u llkuan a, ttai Ikotten h; han llkuan a, 
(4386) ttai Opuoin n. ( ) H sse llnau, o ka kki-ssa ttah 
h kail Opuoin, h kda Hiuki Opuoin; ta, llgau^ii 

t f r f 

ssa, o ka Opuoin I Ina. He llgau^u Ikii kkwakken- 
(4387) kkwakken Ihin, i; o ka Ikii leta Opuoin. ( ) N ^auki 
Ine +eh-na ll^ke a llgaii^ii ssa, a; h Iku-g Ine ka 

V, ^ f f 

h +i, llgau^ii >*auki dd^a, ssa, o llgau^ii wa Iku 
Ike-ko ssa ; hah Ikii-g Ine ssan ttai, o ka leta Opuoin. 
(4388) ( ) He tiken e, h >iiuki sse Opuoin, i, n sse +ehii 


HABITS OF BAT AND PORCUPINE. 


249 


Mamma told me about it, that I should watch for 
( ) the porcupine, if I saw the bat; then I know, (4380) 
that the porcupine appears to come ; for the bat 
comes. And I must not sleep; for I must ( )(4381) 
watch for the porcupine ; for, when the porcupine 
approaches, I feel sleepy, I become sleepy (on account 
of) the porcupine ; for the porcupine is a thing which 
is used, when it draws near, to ( ) go along making (4382) 
us sleep against our will, as it wishes that we may 
not know the time at which it comes; as it wishes 
that it may come into the hole while we are asleep. 
Therefore, it goes along making us sleep ; while 
it wishes that it may ( ) come, while we are asleep, (4383) 
that it may smell whether harm awaits it at the 
hole, whether a man is lying in wait for it at the 
hole. And if the man is asleep ( ) it steals softly (4384) 
away [lifting its quills that they may not rattle], 
when it has smelt the man's scent. Therefore it 
is used to cause us to become sleepy, when it wishes 
to smell whether peace it be. 

( ) Therefore mamma used to tell me that I should (4385) 
do thus, even if I felt sleepy, I should know that the 
porcupine was the one who went along making me 
sleepy against my will ; it was the one who went 
along causing me to sleep. ( ) I should do thus, (4386) 
even if I felt that I wanted to sleep, I should not 
sleep ; for the porcupine would come, if I slept 
there. And the porcupine would steal gently away, 
while I slept. ( ) I should not know the time at (4387) 
which the porcupine came ; I should think that the 
porcupine had not come, while the porcupine had 
long come ; it had come (and) gone away, while 
I slept. ( ) Therefore, I should not sleep, that (4388) 
I might know when the porcupine came. For, I 


250 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMIN FOLKLORE. 


Iki sse llgau^ii. Ta-g ii Slnau, o ka Opuoinya, ii 
yauki sse +ehh Iki sse ya. 

(4389) He tiken e, ii ka llnau, o ka likuitya llgau^ii, h ( ) 
>auki ©puoin, o ka jkoasse Iki llgau^u ; llgau^u 
llkwa Ine sse, o ka jkoasse Ski ya; ii Ine Ini Iki 
jkuitya, o ka ta Ilka ti e, h a Huiki Opuoinya. 
(4390) Ta, mama Iki a Ikweiddaken, ( ) +kakka ke, n ^aiiki 
sse Opuoiii, o ka ki-ssa ttaii Opuoiii ; ii sse llkellke 
ti e, tata ka ddi lie, he tata Ine jkoasse akken 
(4391) llgau^u, i. He tiken e, tata ka +ehn, ( ) Ski sse 
llgau^u, i, o hah ta Ilka ti e, ha jkoasse llgau^u. 
He tiken e, ha ka +enn Iki sse llgau^ii, I; o ha 

t t f 

kki-ssa ttaii Opuoiii, hah ^auki ta Opuoiii ; o hah 
(4392) ta Ilka ti e, ha ka ha ( ) -teiiii llwke a llgau^ii 
ssa, a. 

Ta, hd ti he Iki e, mama-ggu +kakka ke i, ti e, 
h Inti ^au ll^koen, ti e, llgau^ti Iku e ttss'a a ^auki 
(4393) ttai o llkuanna; ta, ha Iku ttai o llga ; ta, ha ( ) 
Iki )Vuki Ini o llkuanna. He tiken e, ha ttai 
o llga, i ; 5 hail ta Ilka ti e, llga Iki a, ha Ini a; 
han lkii-g llnau, 6 ha ttai o llkuanna, hah Iku lele 
(4394) Ohoki, o hail ta Ilka ti e, ( ) ha tsa^aiten Hniki 
ta +hannuwa. Hd tiken e, ha Ine lele Ohoken, 
i, o hah ta Ilka ti e, ha tsa^aiten ^auki ta +hahnuwa. 
(4395) Ta, ha tsa^aiten Ind ta jkuitya. ( ) llgagen a, ha 
llwkoen akken a. Ta, ha Iki +en-na, ti e, ha Slwke, 
ha Iki a, ha Ini a; ti e, ha ttai he, hah Ini Ohoken, 
o llga, I. 

(4396) Tataken kail 4kakka ke, h sse ( ) llnau, o ka 
likuitya llgau^u, h sse llnau llbke a jkogen Ine tten 


HABITS OF BAT AND PORCUPINE. 


251 


should do thus, if I slept, I should not know when 
it came. 

Therefore, I am used to do thus, when I lie in 
wait for a porcupine, I ( ) do not sleep, when (4389) 
I am watching for the porcupine ; the porcupine 
comes, while I am watching for it; I see it return, 
while I feel that I am the one who did not sleep. 

For mamma was the one who thus ( ) told me, (4390) 
that I must not sleep, even if I felt sleepy; I must 
do as father used to do, when father watched well 
for the porcupine. Therefore, father used to know 
( ) when the porcupine came, while he felt that (4391) 
he watched for the porcupine. Therefore, he used 
to know when the porcupine came; even if he felt 
sleepy, he did not sleep, because he felt that 
he wanted to ( ) know the time at which the (4392) 
porcupine came. 

For, these things are those about which my 
mother and the others told me, namely, did I not 
see that the porcupine is a thing which does not 
go (about) at noon; for it goes (about) by night; 
for it ( ) cannot see at noon. Therefore, it goes (4393) 
(about) by night, while it feels that night is (the 
time) at which it sees; it would, if it went (about) 
at noon, it would be going into the bushes, while 
it felt that ( ) its eyes were not comfortable. (4394) 
Therefore, it would be going into the bushes, while 
it felt that its eyes were not comfortable. For its 
eyes would feel dazzled. ( ) Night is (the time) (4395) 
when it sees well. For, it knows that this is the 
time, at which it perceives ; on the place where it 
goes it sees the bushes at night. 

Father used to tell me that, ( ) when lying in wait (4396) 
for a porcupine, at the time at which the Milky 


252 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


j^uohni a, han a, n Ine +enna, ti e, ll^ke a llgau^uken 
(4397) Ine jkuiten a, llknaii e. Tataken ( ) kkisse n o 
Ikualkuatten ; h sse llnau, o ka llkuiten ss'o llgau^u 
ka Ik 6a, h ssiii Ikoasse Ikualknatten ; ti e, Ikualknatten 
(4398) ikouki, hih e, h jkoasse kwokkwoh he. ( ) Ta, 
he ti he ttuko e, ilgaii^u llna he; he lkualku|tten 
Ikouki. 

N" ssih ll^am tta-i jkhwe. Tchuen e, h ssih jkoasse 
he, ti e, tata Ikwei-ddaken, kkisse n, i ; tchuen e h 
(4399) ssih ( ) jkoasse he. Tataken +kakka ke a, ti e, 
h sse yauki jkoasse jkhwe ; ta, llgau^u yauki e tssa 
a ka ha sse jkuiten jkau Ihih jkhwe. Ta, ha ka 
(4400) Iku jkuiten Ikaa ssa, jkhwe ( ) llhattenttu, 6 ha 
ta Ilka ti e, ha ka ha ssih jkhou. He tiken e, ha 
ka ttal Il^watten llkhoa jkhwe, i, 6 han ta Ilka ti e, 
ha ka ha ssih jkhou ; ta ha Inulnutu Iki Iku e, tkakka 
(4401) ( ) ha a, ti e, la llna he ti. 

Tataken kail Ikakka ke, h sse yauki ttu llwei, 6 ka 
llkuitya llgau^u ; ta, tssa a yauki ttamsse ttui,* ha e. 
(4402) ST yauki ssih ll^am Ikdroken llwei; ta, llgau^u ( ) 
e tss'a a yauki ttamsse ttui, ha 6. He tiken e, i ka 
Iku ttamsse ssuen ywahni, i ; o i, ta Ilka ti e, 
i jhammi, ti e, i ssan 56 llnau, ha 6a tt|i ssa, ha 
k6a Ine 6a ttu. 


(4403) 


* Tss'a a jnunttu yauki |ki |kua, ha kah |kii e. He tiken e, 
1 yauki ta Ikoroken ||wi, I ; 6 l'ten ta Ilka ti e, tss'a a, ka ha 
sse Iku llnau, o I kki-ssa +i, ti e, i yauki Ikoroken Ilwei-ya, han 
Iku-g Ine sse ttu. 


HABITS OF BAT AND PORCUPINE. 


253 


Way turns back, I should know that it is the time 
at which the porcupine returns. Father ( ) taught (4397) 
me about the stars; that I should do thus when 
lying in wait at a porcupine's hole, I must watch 
the stars; the place where the stars fall,* it is the 
one which T must thoroughly watch. ( ) For this (4398) 
place it really is which the porcupine is at, where 
the stars fall. 

I must also be feeling (trying) the wind. Things 
which I should watch, father in this manner taught 
me about, things which I should ( ) watch. Father (4399) 
said to me about it, that I should not watch the 
wind ( i.e . to windward), for the porcupine is not 
a thing which will return coming right out of the 
wind. For, it is used to return crossing the wind 
in a ( ) slanting direction, because it wants to smell. (4400) 
Therefore, it goes across the wind in a slanting 
direction, because it wants to smell; for its nostrils 
are those which tell ( ) it about it, whether harm (4401) 
is at this place. 

Father used to tell me, that I must not breathe 
strongly when lying in wait for a porcupine ; for, 
a thing which does not a little hear,t if is. I should 
also not rustle strongly; for, a porcupine ( ) is (4402) 
a thing which does not a little hear. Therefore, 
we are used gently to turn ourselves when sitting; 
because we fear that had we done so (noisily), as 
it came, it would have heard. J 


* The porcupine will come from the place at which the star (4397) 
seemed to fall. 

f A thing whose ears hear finely it indeed (?) is. Therefore, (4403) 
we do not rustle much on account of it ; because (it is) a thing 
which, even if we thought that we had not rustled much, 
would hear. 

J If the porcupine had heard, it would have turned back. (4402 J ) 


254 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


YIL— 127. 

L. 

THE IXA-KAU AND THE WILD CAT. 

D 

{Dictated, in January , 1878, by |han+kass'o.) 

(6085 J ) Ha Ilkuan ka ka: u Tcha, tcha, tcha, tcha," au ha 
ywei llguatten ; an ha Ina llgudtten, au llguatta ta, 
Opuoin ta ; he, ha Ine Twei llguatten, L 

yeTehn kkufta Ine llkoii ha, hi-ta kuwk-g Ine Twei 
llguatten. 


YIL — 148. 

L. 

THE BABOONS AND II vABBITEN II vABBITEN. 

A, O Ar O 


{Dictated, in February , 1876, in the Kathop dialect, by Di'ajkwain, 
who heard it from llxabbitenllxabbiten.*) 


(5930) 

(5931) 

(5932) 

(5933) 

(5930') 

(5932') 


Ihulhu kkan ha Ini 1 1 ^abbiten 1 1 ^abbi ten, o han Ihm 
Ihu e ha ssih ^annugu Ikam lla he. Hah ha Ikammainya 
ttamberre, he Ihu a ha & he. Hg Ihulhu ha ( ) kui : 
" Ikoin ll^dbbitenll^abbiten kkan Ike llkhoa jkiiiten 
lla; ften sse llkam Iho ha, I sse Ikauken ttatten 
Ikam ha." 

0 r 

Ihulhuken ha Iku llnau, ll^abbitenll^abbitan ka ha 
Iwke he, ( ) han Ilkuan ha ttuttu he, ti e, he I no tte 
dda. He ll^abbitenll^abbiten ha Iwke, he ^u^u ka 
luhaluhann, I.t He Ihulhu ha Ikii Ikdaken llkhde 
Ikaih ssa ( ) Il^abbitenll^abbiten ; hm h| Ikwajkwa 

* W^dbbitenWxdbbiten told this himself to DidXkwain , y6-bbo, 
\Jciiru ggau (a cousin), \nuru, and \kwd\hu, when they were children. 

f "TJ kan ^kakken n, uken jxwenya ; ii xu^ugen llkho |kou." 
Ihulhuken Iku-g |ne I y wain ha, ti e, ha kkuerriten he ; hah l^ke, 
ti e, he xhxu ||kho |kou. He, he |ku jkwajkwa Ikam llkhaiten, 
i ; hin Ikii llkam jho ||a 1 1 xabbiten 1 1 xabbiten . 


SAXICOLA CASTOE AND WILD CAT. 


255 


VII.— 127. 

L. 

THE SAXICOLA CASTOR* AND THE WILD 

CAT. 

It (the Saxicola Castor) says: " Tcha, tcha, tcha, (6085) 
tcha," when it is laughing at the wild cat, when it 
has espied the cat, while the cat is lying down, lying 
asleep ; and it is laughing at the cat, on account of it. 

The other little birds (hearing it) go to it, they are 
all laughing at the cat. 


VII.— 148. 

L. 

THE BABOONS AND 11^ ABBITEN II^ABBITEN. 

The baboons espied \\j(dbbifen\\j(abbiten , as he was (5930) 
coming away from the white men whom he had been 
to visit. He was carrying flour, which the white 
men gave him. And the baboons ( ) said : u Uncle (5931) 
\\j(dbbiten\\ydbbiten seems to be returning yonder ; let 
us cross his path (?), that we may knock him down." 

The baboons did so ; II Rabbit en\\yabbiten thought he 
would speak to them, ( ) he asked them what they (5932) 
were saying. And \\fabbiten\\yabbiten remarked upon 
their foreheads' steepness (?).f And the baboons 
angrily (?) came down to ( ) \\^dbbiten\\^abbiten ; they (5933) 

* The | ka-kau or Saxicola Castor is a little bird found in Bush- 
manland. It lives in trees and flies about. It is not eaten by 
Dushmen. 

f "Ye speak to me! ye are ugly! your foreheads resemble (§932' 
overhanging cliffs ! " The baboons became angry with him, 
because he derided them ; be said that their foreheads resembled 
overhanging cliffs. And they broke off sticks, on account of it ; 
they went towards ^\alliten\\yalliten. 


256 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLOEE. 


Skam llkhalten e, he km sse ssa, jkauken-a ll^abbiten- 
ll^abbiten, 1 . 

Ihulhuka jka'ukah ssa; Inn ha ttauko kkah 

(5934) l^keya ( ) he oken-ggu, a: " Tata-ggu-wwe j u kkoo 
sse a ssi a, ll^abbitenll^abbiten Ina, ssi sse Ilgwiten i." 

ll^dbbitenll^abbityan ha llnau, ha tui, ti e, Ihulhuka 
(5935) jkauken Ikweidda, i, han ( ) ha ka hah +!, ' N sse 
tte Iki, n ddi ? o Ihulhu )Vuki ttamsse Iwkwaiya.' 
Han ha ku-kkuiten +i, ' H kkah sse llkalten llna, h 
(5936) sse 1 1 ka'u ssm I Ina ; Ihulhu sse llkua Iku ( ) j^al Iki 
llkhde h o llna.' 

He Ihulhu llkuan ha Ike I la ha, o hah llkau ss'o 
llna; Ihulhuka Ikaukan ha Iwkeya he Ikagen a, hih 
(5937) ha ka : " Amm ll^koenyyu ( ) ll^dbbitenll^abbiten 
Ina gwai; iten ^a ssah tunim o I Ilgwiten llna, o 
ll^abbitenll^abbiten Ina ; ta, u Iku e, ll^koen, ti e, he 
Ikwei ii, l, he-ta Jkwijkwi ; hm llkho, he ^auki ssah 
(5938) ( ) oroko Ikurru." Ihulhu a ha e jkerri, han ha l^ke 
Ihulhuka Ikaiiken ; han ha ku-kkui, han ttuttu Ihu- 
(5939) Ihiika jkauken, Ihulhuka jkauken ( ) I no ) J aii llwkoen, ti 
e, ll^abbitenll^dbbiten e jkerri, ha, he e jkauken, he 
Iku e, ka he ha He! Il^abbitenll^abbitenka tikentiken ? 
(5940) Hm +kakken kui j^wah he Ike-Opua e ; ha ( ) he 

— c^j ~ t 

kie Iku e, I lei ha-ka tikentiken. Ilih I no yau llwkoen, 
ti e, he e jkejkerriten llkuan Iku e, sse Ikilki ll^abbiten- 
ll^dbbitenta tikentiken; he e jkejkerriten." 

(5941) ( ) He ll^abbitenll^abbiten h| ku-kkui, han +i, 

' IsT ka sse tte Iki, h ddi, Ihulhu sse ^uttu h ? ta, he 


THE BABOONS AND II^XbBITENII^BBITEN. 257 

broke off sticks, with which they intended to come 
to beat \\j(dbbiten\\j(abbiten. 

The baboons 5 children also came ; going along, they 
called out ( ) to their parents about it : u 0 fathers ! (5934) 
ye must give us \\j(dbbiten\\j(dbbiten^s head, that we 
may play with it. 55 

\\j(dbbiten\\j(dbbiten did as follows, when he heard 
that the baboons 5 children were speaking in this 
manner, he ( ) thought to himself, 4 What shall I (5935) 
do ? for the baboons are not a little numerous. 5 He 
thought, ' I will climb a krieboom, that I may sit 
above in the krieboom ; the baboons will have (?) to 
( ) drag me down from the krieboom. 5 (5936) 

And the baboons went up to him, as he sat above 
in the krieboom ; the baboons 5 children spoke to each 
other about it, they said: " First look ye at ( )(5937) 
\\j(dbbiten\\j(dbbiten > s big head; we should be a long 
while playing there, with \\^abbiten\\\abbiterf s head ; 
for ye are those who see that its bigness is like this ; 
it seems as if it would not ( ) quickly break. 55 A (5938) 
baboon, who was grown up,* spoke to the baboons 5 
children ; he questioned the baboons 5 children : Did 
not the baboons 5 children ( ) see that II yabbiten- (5939) 
II yabbiten was grown up — that they who were children 
should think that they could possess the pieces of 
\\j(dbbiten\\j(abbiten ? They spoke as if he were their 
little cousin ; that ( ) they should possess his pieces. (5940) 
Did they not see that those who are grown up would 
be the ones to get the pieces of \\^dbbiten\\yabbiten ; 
those who are grown up ? 

( ) And \\j(dbbiten\\j(dbbiten thought to himself : (5941) 

1 What shall I do, (in order) that the baboons may 

* The name of the head baboon, the big, old one, which goes (5932 5 ) 
after the rest, is j uhal Yho [ lewd, or " Schildwacht ". 


s 


258 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


t - ~ • 

(5942) Ikit Ikakken litha o h. Tiken I kit j^wan, ( ) he sse 
jkei llou, he ddia n. ? lie ll^dhhitenll^abhiten ha 
kii-kkui, hah +i, 'IkamOpua, ii kah sse a mm l^keya 
(5943) iMlhii a, Ihu. Ta, ( ) Ihulhu llkuan yauki ttamsse 
jhanimi jkabbit; h sse ll^koen, ti e, he Ino ya'u sse 
jhammi, o he ttoa, ti e, h l^keya he a, lhu. ? 

(5944) He I 1 ;/al)biten! 1^ abbiten ( ) ha kit-kkui, hah lwke,-o 
hah ddauddaii he, -hail ha kui : u Shu wwe ! Ihulhu 
kkah dd(5a e a, he llna h, it kkoo ddga Sl^auwi he." 
(5945) He Ihulhu ha llnau, ( ) hih kie ttu, ti e, ll^abbiten- 
ll^abbiten Ikakka he a, ti e, Ihu sse ll^auwi he, 
Ihulhiigen ha I kit jkauru-i, i. He, Ihulhu ha jku^e 
(5946) ^ittui ll^abbitenll^abbiten, i; he, ( ) ha ha bbai, 
o II wke a Ihulhu lhammi lla a, hah ordko llkhde, o llna. 

• o / / 

f t f 

Hah iku^e Ihih, o ha bbai Ihulhu ; o he jku^e Ikam 
(5947) ||a Ikou, hah ( ) jku^e Ihih. 


YIL— 75a. 

B. 

IlKHX ka kkumm. 

(Dictated, in January , 1875, in the Katkop dialect, by Ikweiten ta 
liken, who heard it from her mother, tkamme-an.) 

( 4004 ) jkhwan Iw J a llna, o Sl^e; llkhah llkauwa,* o hah 
yw'a llna; ha ^oagguken Opuoih tta; hah Ine llkau 
ss'o he, ss'o kd Iw'a. 

He llkha ttui, 6 ha ^w'a llna. He llkha Ikam 
ssa ha L 

(4005) He ( ) ha Iki Ihih Ikhe, he ha ^dakenggu jkhwi 
tta he; o hah ka, ha lau llkha; Slkhan ka ha Ika 
hhoa ha ^dakenggu ; ha-g Ine bbu ie llkha, T ; 
* Probably a contraction of Wlcau ha. 


a lion's story. 


259 


leave me? for, they speak angrily about me. It 
sounds as if ( ) they would really attack me.' And (5942) 
\\yabbiten\\yabbiten thought to himself: ( Wait, I will 
first tell about the baboons to the white men. For 
( ) baboons are not a little afraid of a gun ; I shall (5943) 
see whether they will not be afraid, if they hear that 
I am talking about them to the white men.' 

And \\yabbiten\\yabbiten ( ) called out, — while he (5944) 
deceived them, — he said: "0 white men! the 
baboons are here, they are with me, ye must drive 
them away " (?). And the baboons did thus, when 
( ) they heard that \\yabbiten\\yabbiten spoke about (5945) 
them, that the white men should drive them away (?), 
the baboons looked about, on account of it. And the 
baboons ran, leaving \\ydbbiten\\yabbiten ; and ( ) he (5946) 
escaped, at the time when the baboons went away in 
fear, he quickly descended from the krieboom. He 
ran away, as he escaped from the baboons; while 
they ran to the cliffs he ( ) ran away. (5947) 


YXL— 75a. 


B. 


A LION'S STORY. 

The child cried there for u Bushman rice " ; a lion (4004) 
hearing came to her, while she cried there; her 
parents lay asleep ; she sat by them, sat crying. 

And the lion heard, as she cried there. And the 
lion came to her, on account of it. 

And ( ) she took out (some of) the grass * upon (4005) 
which her parents were lying ; because she had per- 
ceived the lion ; the lion intended to kill (and) carry 

* The narrator explained that the Bushmen sleep upon grass, (4007') 
which, in course of time, becomes dry. 


260 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


~ t ~ 

Ilkhan Ine iku^e Ihm, I ; ©hbkaken Ine ttuko bbubbu 
(4006) le. IITh tati, jkhwa ( ) bbu ! eya llkha, I. 

He jkhwa ^oa Ine jhau, hah a ha ll^e ; hah tati, 
llkha ssih sse Ika he, o jkhwa ssih bbu I eya llkha, 
o Ikhe. 

(4007) He llkha Iku-g Ine Man, Ikuken o li. Hin tati, ( ) 
li Iku-g Ine Ilka IkhI ya. 

He jkhwa ^6a kui: u I h ta jkhwa, o a ^a ssm 
Ikuei 8ki, a bbu I eya llkha, ssiten ssm sse Ikuken. 
(4008) Ta, a-g Ine bbu I eya ssi llkha, ta, ( ) ssiten sse 
Ikuken, o a ^a bbu I eya ssi a llkha. He ti hm Ine 
e, ssi sse Ika ha a, ll^e ta jka'uwi; ta, a-g Ine iki 

V t t 

Ik'a'ui ss! ; ssi ssm sse Ikuki ; ssiten ssm sse Ikuken, 

° / 7 o o / 

(4009) oa jfa( ) bbu leya ssi a llkha; a ^a Ikuei Iki, a bbu 

^ t ~ 

leya ssi llkha, ssften ssm sse Ikuken, I." 


VII.— 151. 

L. 

THE MAH WHO FOUND A LION IN A CAVE. 


(4890) 

(4891) 


( Related , in July , 1875, in the Kathop dialect , by Dm (twain, who 
heard it from his paternal grandfather , j%ugen-ddi.) 

H jkoin j^ugen-ddi, ha kah oa kan +kakka ke, 
ti e, jkui ha oa llnau, jkhwa kkauwa, ha +1, ti e, 
ha ka ha ( ) lla luh jkauka llneih ; o Ilkhan da a 
dda ha a, jkhwa; ha Tauld sse ierm, ti e, llneih 
ss'o ssho he; ha sse llgii jk'u, ha sse Ikam lie ti e 
Ibarra, llkha sse Ini ha. 


MAN WHO FOUND LION IN CAVE. 


261 


off her parents ; she set the lion on fire with it ; * 
the lion ran away ; the bushes took fire.f Because 
the child ( ) had set the lion on fire. (4006) 

And the child's mother afterwards gave her 
" Bushman rice" (because) she felt that the lion 
would have killed them, if the child had not set 
the lion on fire with grass. 

And the lion went to die on account of the fire. 
Because ( ) the fire had burned, killing it. (4007) 

And the child's mother said : u Yes, my child, 
hadst thou not in this manner set the lion on fire we 
should have died. For thou didst set the lion on fire 
for us, for ( ) we should have died, hadst thou not (4008) 
set the lion on fire for us. Therefore it is, that we 
will break for thee an ostrich eggshell of " Bushman 
rice " ; for, thou hast made us to live ; we should 
have been dead, we should have died, hadst thou not 
( ) set the lion on fire for us; hadst thou not, in (4009) 
this manner, set the lion on fire for us, we should 
have died." 


VII.— 151. 

L. 

THE MAN WHO FOUND A LION IN A CAVE. 

My grandfather, \yugen-ddi , formerly told me, that (4890) 
a man long ago did thus: when the rain fell he 
thought that he would ( ) go (and) sleep in a cave; (4891) 
when a lion had been the one who had made rain 
for him, so that he should not know the place at 
which (his) home seemed to be, that he might pass 
(it) by (in the darkness), so that he might go to 
a different place, that the lion might get hold of him. 

* She set the lion's hair on fire. (4005') 

f As he ran through the bushes, they caught fire also. 


262 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLOEE. 


(4892) ( ) Tiken yauki ttamOpua e llga, ta, ha Iku lele 

Ohoken ; hah yauki Ini, ti e, ha ttai, Ika-a lla he. 
Hah yauki Ine +eh-na, ti e, llneih ss'o ssho he. 
(4893) He, ( ) ha kii-kkui, hah +i, £ 1ST kan ddoa sse 
jkagen llwkoen llga/ue Jkauka llneih ; h sse Ilh luh 
he, 6 ka Ina he ; h ssan Jhaug-n llnau, Jgdue, h sse 
(4894) Jkuitye; ta Jkhwa ( ) yauki ttamsse kkau h.' 

He llkha 6a mmaii, hah ssa, Jkauka llneih; hah 

~ 3 ~~f t f ' 

ssan Ika Ikilki Ikui, 6 Ikauka llneih. 

(4895) He ha tta, Ilka ti e, ha llkuan ll^am llkh; ( ) hah 
Ine Iku llnau, hah ka ha llkhde ssih Jkauka llneih, hah 
Ine llhoa, he ha Iku Opuoin, I ; 6 hah ka ha llhoa ; 
(4896) 6 hah ssm 41, ti e, ha ka ha ss'o-ko Jk'oasse ( ) jkui ; 
ha sse llnau, Jkui ya le ssa, 6 Jkui ya ka ha 41, ha ka 
ha llwkoen, ti e, ha ka ha tte ha-ka tchuen, T, ha sse 
(4897) ika a Jkui. Hah llkuan ssih Ikweidaken, 41 ; han ( ) 
Ikii-g Ine Opuoin ttai. 

f f r f f 

He Jkui Iku ssa, o han ss'o-ko Opuoin. He Jkui 
ha llnau, 6 hah ka ha le He Ikauka llneih, han ha 

D ' f ' D 

(4898) ttui, tss'a a, ha J^wan ha ttu; he Jkui ha ( ) kii- 
kkui, hah +i, £ Jk'e j ( a ddoa ssa, Jkauka llneih, hih 
Ika I Ina, Jkauka llneih, e ttu o ti e ? ' He ha ha 
ku-kkiii, hah 4i, £ Tss'a dde a jk'e yauki Ine 
(4899) 4kakken, ( ) 6 Jk'e ya e? Jk'e ya ^a Skii dd6a 
Opuoin thuya, he Jk'e yauki Ine Iwkeya ke ? ' He 
ha ha kii-kkui, han 4i, i S' kan yaiiki sse Jkwi Ik'e ; 
(4900) ta-g h yaiiki 4eh-na, ( ) ti e, Jk'e I no e ; ta, h sse 
arnhi ttamOpua Jkah-a, h sse tta, ti e, Jk'e kwo- 
kkwah Ino e. Ta, h ssan 6a Iku llnau, tss'a a Ibarra, 
ha e, h kk6o Jkwi Jkw6ta.' 


MAN WHO FOUND LION IN CAVE. 


263 


( ) The place was not a little dark, for, he con- (4892) 
tinned to go into the hushes ; he did not see the 
place along which he was walking. He did not 
know the place at which (his) home seemed to be. 

And ( ) he thought, 4 I must go along in the dark- (4893) 
ness seeking for a cave, that I may go to sleep in it, 
if I find it ; I can afterwards in the morning return 
home ; for, the rain ( ) does not a little fall upon me.' (4894) 

And the lion had come first to the cave ; it came 
to wait for the man in the cave. 

And it felt that it was also wet ; ( ) when it had (4895) 
sat (for a little while) inside the cave, it became 
warm, and it slept, when it had become warm ; 
while it had thought that it would sit watching for 
( ) the man, that it might do thus, if the man came (4896) 
in, — while the man thought he would look for a place 
where he could lay down his things, — it might catch 
hold of the man. It had thought so ; (but) it ( ) fell (4897) 
fast asleep. 

And the man came, while it sat asleep. And the 
man, when he had entered the cave, heard a thing 
which seemed to breathe; and the man ( ) thought: (4898) 
4 Can people have come to the cave ? Do they wait 
at the cave, those who breathe here ? ' And he 
thought, 4 How is it that the people do not talk, ( )(4899) 
if people (they) be ? Can the people have fallen 
fast asleep, that the people do not speak to me ? ' 

And he thought : 4 1 will not call out to the people, 
for I do not know, ( ) whether they are people ; for, (4900) 
I will first feel gently about (with my hands), that 
I may feel whether real people (they) be. For, I 
should, if it were a different thing, I should call 
awakening it.' 


264 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN POLKLOBE. 


(4901) ( ) He, ha jkah, I ; he ha tta, ti e, tss'a a Ikil ttan 

ha Iki Ikuki, ha Ikil a a. He ha Ika sse jkhe Iko lla, 
I; he ha Jkah akken, I; he ha tta, ti e, llkh| Iku 
(4902) dd6a a, ( ) Opuoin llkhde ssho jkauka llnem. He ha 
Iku ttamsse kkwa j^uonni, i ; he ha Iku ha kwakken- 
kwakki Ihin, T. 

H£, ha ha llnau, han ka ha lie llkhwe-ten, han ha 

— / D J o / d 

/vj ^ ^ x 

(4903) Ine ( ) jku^e llwei, o han ha 41, ti e, llkha ssan jkhou 

t ^ f \ „ y V 

ha Ikw'ai e, ha ssih llah jkah llkha, i ; llkha kkoo sse 
Ikii^e llgaue ha. 

(4904) He, ha ha llnau, han ka ha lie llkhw^ten, o ( ) au- 
Opuaka ssu^n <5, hah ha ttui llkha, i; o llkhan ka 

rw > t 

ha jkhou ha Ikw'ai, o llkhan Ikil leta Opuom. He 

s r^> r f 

(4905) llkha Ikil llnau, han Ikwei Ikuah, ss'<5-ko Opuom, ( ) 

t rs ^ J , ~ 

Ikui Ikw'am Ikil le ha Inunu ; he ha ha llm llnau, 

• o > ' — Z) ' 

r^j f ft 

Ikui Ikw'ai e ttan Ikui Ikhe hi ha, hail Ikil kui Igoo 

• o , • o • ' • O 

f __ f ' — 9 

(4906) ii jkhe; o Ikui Ikw'ai e ha jkhou he, he ttan ( ) 

f f & ~ f 

jkui jkhe hi ha ; hih Iku e, ha Ika-i, ti e, ttan, jkui 
llna ha. 

He Ikui ha ttui ha, i ; he Ikui ha kkui : "Ha kan 

— • o d //-•o D 

f ^ w rs ^ . 

(4907) j^wa Ina n Ikw'ai ; ta, a llkuah ( ) Ikil-g Ine a ttui, 

ti e, jkauka llneih Ine Ikweidda, I ; ta, llkha llkuah 
~ t r « r ^ J 
Ine j^wa jkabbe Ihin, o-g n Ikw'ai; ta, ha lkil~g 

(4908) Ine j^wa tssi-a llgaue Iki h, ( ) o jkauka llneih." 

He Ikui ha kii-kkui, han 4i, ha >huki sse Ikam lie 

llnem ; ta, ha Iku sse jku^e, ti e Ibarra ; ta, ha 

(4909) +en-na, ti e, llkha ka ha sse Ika -a ha ( ) jnwa ; ha 

ssan Ikil jjiau ha llnau, jga'ue ya jkhwaiya, — o llkha 


MAN WHO FOUND LION IN CAVE. 


265 


( ) And he felt about ; and he felt that a thing (4901) 
which seemed to have hair was there. And be gently 
approached a little nearer to it ; and he felt well 
about, and he felt that a lion was the one which ( )(4902) 
slept sitting inside the cave. And he gently stepped 
backwards (and) turned round ; and he went out on 
tiptoe. 

And, when he had gone to a little distance, he ( ) (4903) 
ran swiftly, because he thought that the lion would 
smell his scent (where) he had gone to feel about for 
the lion ; the lion would run to seek him. 

And when he had gone to a little distance, when 
( ) a little time had passed, he heard the lion, because (4904) 
the lion had smelt his scent, while the lion slept. 

And as the lion had in this manner sat sleeping, ( ) (4905) 
the man's scent had entered its nose, and, because of 
the man's scent, which seemed as if the man were 
standing beside it, it had growling arisen; because 
the man's scent which it smelt, seemed as if ( ) the (4906) 
man were standing beside it ; that was why it snatched 
at the place at which the man seemed to be. 

And the man heard it ; and the man exclaimed : 
u It sounds as if it had perceived my scent; for thou 
(addressing himself) ( ) art the one who hearest that (4907) 
the cave sounds thus ; for the lion sounds as if (it) 
had been startled awake by my scent ; for it sounds 
as if (it) were biting about, seeking * for me ( ) in (4908) 
the cave." And the man thought, that he would not 
go home; for, he would run to a different place; 
for, he knew that the lion would find his ( ) spoor ; (4909) 
he would afterwards do as follows, when the day 

* The narrator explained that the lion was smelling and (4907') 
growling about, in order to find the person (or persons) whom 
it had smelt. 


266 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


f r f r 

Ikha ha, — ha ssan Ikii |hau ha ll^koen llgaue llnem 
o jga'ue. 

(4910) He jgaue ha Iku jkhwai, o ( ) jkuiten ttauko jku^e, 
6 ha ha ttui I Ikha, ti e, I Ikha Ikweidda, i, o I Iklia 
llgaue Iki ha. He, ha ha llnau, hah jku^e 1 1 a, hah 
(4911) Ini jk'e e l^drra, he ta if, e ( ) he like kkuh Iki 
he, i. He ha ha ku-kkui, hah +1, ' ST kan sse jku^e 
li a kkie jkhe, h sse lie Ik'e e kkie like llna, h sse 
(4912) lla luh he.' He ha ha ( ) ku-kkui, hah 4i, ' A ^a 
kah +i, lbbo-ken-ggu ) J aiiki ssih ll^arn ikakka ke, 
ti e, llkha tsa^aii, ha ka Si^am llnau, llwke ko, he 
(4913) llkho li o llga? h sse ( ) ll^koen, ti e, Si kwo-kkwah 
Ino e, a kkie Ilka llna.' He, ha ha jku^e Iko lla, 
o li, i ; hah ha llwkoen ; he ha ha llwkoen, ti e, jk'e 
(4914) ukuah jkhe jk'au ta Si-ttu-j^au. ( ) He ha ha kix- 
kui-ten +L ' 1ST kah llkuah sse lie Ik'e ; ta, ti llkuah 

o / od *77 od 

llkho Ik'e llkuah e.' 

" • o D 

He ha ha lla jk'e, i. He, ha ha ku-kui-ten I^keya 
(4915) jk'e, i : " XJ kka ( ) kah +1, h ^au ttal leva Ikiiken, 
o llga ka ti e. H Iku llnau ti e, llkha Opuoinya ; 
he tiken e, u Ini h, i. Ta, ii >*auki ssih sse Ini h, 
(4916) 5 llkha ^aiiki ssih Opuoinya ; ( ) ta, ti e, ha 

Opuoinya, i, he Iku e, ti llkhoa, ii Ini h, I ; h jke- 

ssa u. Ta, h llkuah ssih la, ti e, h kan lla Ika llna- 

(4917) llna, jkauka llnem, 6 Slkhah <^a Iku ( ) ssan jka Iki 

h, o jkauka ilneni. 1ST kaiiki +en-na, ti e, llkha da 
llkoe ssho jkauka llnem; h llkuah +i, ti e, h kan 
(4918) jkan-a llgaue, ti e, kkie llkowa, h sse tte n-ka ( ) 


MAN WHO FOUND LION IN CAYE. 


267 


had broken, — if the lion had not killed him, — he 
would afterwards look seeking for (his) home in the 
morning. 

And the day broke, while ( ) the man was (still) (4910) 
running, because he had heard the lion, namely, 
the noise that the lion made, while the lion sought 
to get him. And, as he ran along, he espied the 
fire of some other people, which ( ) they kindled (4911) 
to warm themselves. And he thought : ' I will run 
to the fire which stands yonder (?), that I may go to 
the people who are making fire there, that I may go 
to sleep (among) them.' And he ( ) thought: ' Dost (4912) 
thou not think (that) our fathers also said to me, 
that the lion's eye can also sometimes resemble a fire 
by night? I will ( ) look whether it be a real (4913) 
fire which burns there.' And he ran nearer to the 
fire; he looked, and he saw that people were lying 
round (?) in front of the fire. ( ) And he thought : (4914) 
' I will go to the people ; for the thing seems as if 
they are people.' 

And he went to the people. And he told the 
people about it: "Do ye ( ) think, that I have (4915) 
not walked into death this night ? It happened to 
me that the lion slept ; therefore ye see me ! For, 
ye would not have seen me, had the lion not slept; 

( ) because it slept, hence it is that the thing seems (4916) 
that ye see me ; I have come to you. For, I had 
thought that I would go to wait there (in) the cave, 
but, the lion had ( ) come to wait for me in the (4917) 
cave. I did not know that the lion was sitting inside 
the cave ; I thought that I would feel about, seeking 
for a place which was dry, that I might lay down 
my ( ) things there. Then, when I walked into the (4918) 
cave, I heard a thing which sounded as if it breathed ; 


268 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 4919 ) 

( 4920 ) 

( 4921 ) 

( 4922 ) 

( 4923 ) 

( 4924 ) 

( 4925 ) 

( 4926 ) 


/ ~ f. w w r 

tchuen, L He tiken e, h llnau, n ttai le-ssa Ikauka 

o / — o / 7 ^3 • 

. r ~ 9 — w 9 

llneih, h ttui tss a a j^wan ha ttu ; he-g n llkuah 
Ine +i, ti e, jk'e llkuah ss'o ll^am e Ika llna, ( ) 
jkauka llneih. T8 llkuah ttui, ti e, tss'aka ttu Tauki 
j^wah jkui; h Ine ku-kkui, h +1, h sse aim jkan, 
6 h Tauki tte h-ka tchueh. H Ine jkan, o ( ) 
kah Ikii Iki h-ka tcliuen ; he-g h llkuah Ine ttamsse 
jkan, I. H Ikii-g Ine tta, ti e, h Ikii-g Ine Jkan 
Ikuki ; he-g h Ikii tta, ti e, llkha 4a ddda a, ( ) 
Opuoin, llkoe ssho. H Iku-g Sue kkwa j^uonni, o kan 
kah, tta, ti e, llkha 6a Iku ddqa e." 

Han Ine l^keya jk'e kkuiten a, jk'e kkuiten ( ) 
Ino Tau ddda ttui, ha-ka llgaue; he tiken e, jk'e 
kkuiten sse Ik'oasse llkha ; ta, llkha ka ha sse sse, 
6 llkha Ika-a, ha jnwa. He, he ttui llkha, i; o ( ) 
Ilkhan ttuttu llgaue iki ha. Ilkhan ttuttu, ti e, jkui 
a llkuah ssih ddda jke ssa ha, ha Ino dde, 6 ti e, 

r ~~ 3 t f rvj 

ha llkuah Ikhou, ti e, Ikui Inwa Ikw'ai ( ) llkuah 
llgwi-ssih llneih a a. Tiken llkuah ttan, ha llna 
llneih a a ; hail ka jkui llkhou +ka, ha a, ha sse 
Ini Ikui. 

• o 

jgaueyagen Ikii jkhwai, 6 Ilkhan dd^a \\%e ( ) Iki 
he. Ti e, jgaue Ine jkhwai, i, hih Ikii-g Ine e, 
llkha Ine ttai, ttiii Jk'e, i ; o hail llkuah tta, Ilka 
ti e, llkoih Ikii-g Ine Ihih; he tiken e, ha ttai, ( ) 
£u ttui jk'e, i; 6 hah tta, Ilka ti e, llkoih Ikii Ihih. 
Ta, jk'e ssah Ini ha ; ta llkha Iki e, tss'a a, >*auki ka 
ha sse sse 1, 6 llkoih ya jkhe. 


MAN WHO FOUND LION IN CAVE. 


269 


and I thought that people seemed also to be waiting 
there ( ) (in) the cave. I heard that the breathing (4919) 
of the thing did not sound like a man; I thought 
that I would first feel about, while I did not lay down 
my things. I felt about, while ( ) I (still) had my (4920) 
things; and I felt gently about. I felt that I was 
touching hair; and I became aware that (it) must 
be a lion which ( ) slept, sitting in (the cave). (4921) 
I turned softly back, when I became aware that it 
was a lion." 

He told the other people about it : ( ) Did not the (4922) 
other people hear its seeking? Therefore, the other 
people must watch for the lion ; for the lion would 
come, when the lion had found his spoor. And they 
heard the lion, as ( ) the lion questioned, seeking to (4923) 
get him. The lion asked, where was the man who 
had come to it — because it smelt that the scent of 
the man's spoor ( ) had ceased at this house ? The (4924) 
thing seemed, as if he were at this house ; it wanted 
the man to become visible, that it might get hold 
of the man. 

Day broke, while the lion was (still) threatening ( ) (4925) 
them. When the day broke, then it was, that the 
lion went away, leaving the people ; because the sun 
was rising ; therefore, it went away, ( ) leaving the (4926) 
people, while it felt that the sun rose. For (other- 
wise), the people would perceive it ; for the lion is 
a thing which is not willing to come to us, when the 
sun stands (in the sky). 


270 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


YIL— 161. 

L. 


CERTAIN- HUNTING OBSERVANCES, 
CALLED INANNA-SSE. 


(Dictated, in September, 1875, in the Kathop dialect, by Diajkwain, 
who heard it from his mother, Ikamme-an.) 


( 5301 ) 


( 5302 ) 

( 5303 ) 


6 i jnanna-sse Opuai, iten Skwei yo-ken, ddl ; 

0 iten ka, Opuai sse Ikuken. Ta, Opuai yauki sse 
Ikuken, o I ;/a jnanna-sse ka. 

Iten llnau, tss'a a yauki il^uerrlta, han a, i hi ha, 

01 I^a Opnai ; o iten ka, Opnai ya ssiii Sl^aui 

ywah ti e, ha Ikwel hp, L Ta, Opnai Iki llnau, 
( ) i hi tss'a a jnerritya, ha-ka a, tss'a-ken Iku 

^ f f * r f 

kkoan Shin ; hah Ikii-g Ine ) J wah, ti e, tss'a a, 

i ssm ha ha-ka a. Tss'a-ken ll^am Iku-g Ine ywah, 

ti e, tss'a a, ( ) i ssm ha, ha-ka a, ti e, ha ka 

Ikwei y o, I. 


He tiken e, jk'e jkejkerriten ka a hi a, tss'a a yauki 
jnerritya, ha-ka ha. He yauki a hi haka-kku ; ta, 
( 5304 ) ( ) he Ikh I a hi a, ha e, he +en-na he, ti e, he 
kie sse Iki Igllgl jgahoken, jgahoken sse Ikha Opnai. 
jk'e-ten llnah, o I l^a jkhwai, hiii yauki a hi a, 
( 5305 ) ( ) whaita a, o hill tta, Ilka ti e, whai yanki ttam- 
sse ttai. Ta, ha ka Iku llnah, llga ki-ssa e, han ka 

— 3 t ~ r 

Iku ttaiya ttih ; jgaiie Iku jkhwai, o ha ttm-a ttiii. 
( 5306 ) He tiken e, ( ) jk'ejkerriten yahki ta a hi a, whaita 
a; 6 hin tta, Ilka ti e, Opuai ka ha sse llnau, I ha 
whaita a, ha kko ll^am ywah whai ; ha k^o yauki 
( 5307 ) Ikam lie ti Opuorrn-e ; 6 ( ) ha tta, Ilka ti e, i ha 
whai a yauki Opuoin, 6 llgagen ki-ssan e. Han 


jNANNA-SSE. 


271 


VIL— 161. 

L. 

CERTAIN HUNTING OBSERVANCES, 

CALLED j NANNA-SSE. 

When we show respect to the game, we act in (5301) 
this manner; because we wish that the game may 
die. For the game would not die if we did not show 
respect to it. 

We do as follows : a thing which does not run fast 
is that which we eat, when we have shot game ; 
because we desire that the game should also do as 
it does. For the game is used to do thus, if ( ) we (5302) 
eat the flesh of a thing which is fleet, the thing 
( i.e . the game) arises; it does like that thing of 
whose flesh we did eat. The thing also acts like 
that thing the flesh of which ( ) we had eaten, (doing) (5303) 
that which it does. 

Therefore, the old people are accustomed to give us 
the flesh of a thing which is not fleet. They do not 
give us all (kinds of) food ; for ( ) they only give (5304) 
us food (of) which they know that it will strengthen 
the poison, that the poison may kill the game. 

The people do thus, when we have shot a gemsbok, 
they do not give us ( ) springbok flesh, for they feel (5305) 
that the springbok does not a little go. For it is used 
to act thus, even if it be night, it is used to walk 
about ; day breaks, while it is (still) walking about. 
Therefore ( ) the old people do not give us springbok (5306) 
meat ; while they feel that the game, if we ate 
springbok meat, would also do like the springbok ; 
it would not go to a place near at hand, while ( ) (5307) 
it felt that we ate springbok which does not sleep, 
even though it be night. It (the game) would also 


272 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Il^am Ine llkellke ti e, whai dda he; he whai ta 
(5308) llnau, o llk'oih ya ley a ha, o !^oe a ( ) Ibarra, 

llk'oih Iku I hih ha, o !^(5e a Ibarra, o ha tta, Ilka 

ti e, ha Ta'uki ssih Opuomya. Ta, ha Ik a ttai-a 

(5309) ttih, o llga. He tiken e, jkejk&rriten jhamml ( ) 
he a hi whaita a, o hih tta, Ilka ti e, jkhwai Ta'uki 
ka ha sse Qpuoin-ssih, o llga ki-ssa e. Ta, ha ka 
(5310) ha sse jkagen Ski jkhwai jgaue, 6 ha ( ) Tauki 
©puoin. 

He tiken e, jk'e jkejkdrriten Tauki ka, i sse ll^ani 
Ika-a whaita fi, o i l^kalwka, o hih tta, Ilka ti e, 

(5311) i l^kal^ka e, f ssih jkahna Ihoii, ( ) he ko jnwa, 

I; he e, i Ika-I tss'aka a, I ; I ssih \%i tss'a, he i 
Iwkalwkaken e il^am llkellkeya, i jkhduwa whai 

f _ , r 

Ikw'ai ; o hih tta Ilka ti e, i l^kal^ka Iki e, ssih 
(5312) ( ) jkahna o jnwa, iten l^i tss'a. He tiken e, l-g 
llnau, i Ika-a whaita a, tiken ) J wah, i ha whaika 
a, o i Iwkalwka-ken Iku e, ti Twah, i ha whaita 
(5313) a, I. Iten ( ) Ta'uki ha whaita a, ta, i l^kalwka 
Iku e. Iten Ine kah II, i Tss'a ka a, h llkuan Tauki 

o 7 d 7 o D 

ssih jkhouwa tchuen e, h kah Ine jkhou he.' |ku- 
(5314) kko a ha llkuakka, ha-g Ine kii-kku, ha ( ) l^ke: 
"A kah dd(5a ssih Ika-a, whaita a, hih ss o e Ikwe'i 
Ikuan, ddl; ta, h llkuan tta Ilka ti e, a Tauki llkuan 
Ilkhoa jkhouwa tchuen e Ibarra." 

(5315) He tiken e, jk'e ka ( ) Iku llnau, jkui a, hh l^a 
tss'a, he Taliki a ha Ikammaih whai; he Iku a, ha 
Iku kan ssueh, o ha Tauki Jhihya, o ti e, jk'eya 


jNANNA-SSE. 


273 


do that which the springbok does ; and the springbok 
is wont to do thus, when the sun has set for it in 
one ( ) place, the sun arises for it in a different place, (5308) 
while it feels that it has not slept. For it was 
walking about in the night. Therefore, the old 
people fear ( ) to give us springbok's meat, because (5309) 
they feel that the gemsbok would not be willing to 
go to sleep, even at night. For it would, travelling 
in the darkness, let the day break, while it ( ) did (5310) 
not sleep. 

Therefore, the old people also do not allow us to 
take hold of springbok's meat with our hands, 
because our hands, with which we held the bow 
( ) and the arrows, are those with which we are (5311) 
taking hold of the thing's flesh ; we shot the thing, 
and our hands also are as if we had smelt the 
springbok's scent ; because our hands are those 
which ( ) held the arrows (when) we shot the thing. (5312) 
Therefore, if we take hold of springbok's meat, the 
thing is as if we ate springbok's meat, because our 
hands are those which (make) the thing seem as if 
we had eaten springbok's meat with them. ¥e ( )(5313) 
have not eaten springbok's meat; for it is our hands. 

We think, 4 How can it be? I have not smelt the 
things which I am (now) smelling ? ' Another man, 
who is clever, he thus ( ) speaks: 44 Thou must have (5314) 
taken hold of springbok's flesh, it must be that which 
has acted in this manner; for, I feel that thou dost 
not seem to have smelt other things." 

Therefore, the people are used ( ) to act thus with (5315) 
regard to the man who shot the thing, they do 
not allow him to carry the springbok ; they let 
him sit down at a little distance, while he is not 
near to the place where the people are cutting up 


274 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5316) la Iki whai, 1 . Ta, ha Iku kail ss'o, ( ) o ha 
S ha mini ti e, ha ssah Ikhou whaika Ikarra Ikw'ai ; 

• o — ' 3 * —3 / 

hih e, ha kail ss'o, I ; o hah ka, ha ^a sse Ikhou 

/V) 

Ikarra Ikw'ai. 


(NANNA-SSE. 

Second Part. 

FURTHER INFORMATION; PARTICULARLY 
WITH REGARD TO THE TREATMENT 
OF BONES. 

( Given , in 1878, by Ihan^kass'o.) 

(7258 ? ) Hin Iku Iku hkken tchuehta jkwagen, au hi h Tauki 
herru-i, l. 

Hih luhf Slkh6a jkwhgen, au lln^ixi Ikha (ti e 
llneih ttu jke-ss'o hi, hi h In4 ta, llneih Ikha, i) ; 
he hi Ilelle, hih torotoro llkho jkwagen, L He tiken 
e, hi ln£ ta, Ska, I ; au hih tatti, he ti hi e, hi Ilelle, 
(7260) hih totoro llkho jkwagen, i ; ( ) hih totoro ja jho 
jkwagen au Oho (jnabha-Opua) ; au ti e, hi Ilelle, 
hih llkhollkho Ikwagen, L 

He, jkukko Ine kk war ret on luhi llkho ikwagen 
au llgoro ; * ha Ine llnau, ha kkwarreten llgwiya 
(7261) jkwagen, ha ine ( ) Ikarh jkwhgen, ha Ine Ha tdro 
jho jkwagen au he ti.f 


(7260°) * llgoro a jkwal "one breastbone"; pi. Ilgottenllgotten. 

(7261 ? ) t HnSn a jkwai, hah Ikn Iki ha-ha-ka ika; jkukkoken llxamki 
Iki jkukkbka Ika ; jkhkkd, hah llxamki Ikn Iki, ha-ha-ka |ka • 
wai e ha Ikin' hi, hi-ta jkwagen. 


Inanna-sse. 


275 


the springbok. For be sits at a little distance, ( )(5316) 
because be fears lest be should smell the scent of 
the springbok's viscera (?) ; tbat is why he sits at 
a little distance, because be wishes tbat be may not 
smell tbe scent of tbe springbok's viscera (?). 


! NANNA-SSE. 

Second Part. 

FURTHER INFORMATION ; PARTICULARLY 
WITH REGARD TO THE TREATMENT 
OF BONES. 


They (the Bushmen) put tbe things' bones nicely (7258') 
aside, while they do not throw them (about). 

They put down the bones opposite to tbe entrance 
to tbe but (tbe place which the hut's month faces ; 
they call it "the but face's opposite "(?)) ; and they 
go, they pour down tbe bones at it. Therefore, they 
call it, " Tbe heap of meat bones ; " * while they feel 
that this is tbe place to which they go, at which they 
pour down the bones; ( ) they pour down tbe bones (7260) 
by tbe side of a bush (a little thorn bush), at tbe place 
to which they go to put down the bones. 

And another person [Vho lives opposite] gnaws, 
putting the bones upon an (ostrich) breastbone ; t be 
does as follows, when be has finished gnawing tbe 
bones, he ( ) takes up the bones, be goes to pour (7261) 
down tbe bones at this place. £ 


* This heap of bones (springbok, gemsbok, hare, porcupine, etc.) (7270' ) 
is called \uhaityn as well as | ha. 

f The breastbone of an ostrich, used as a dish. (7260') 

f One hut has its own heap of bones; the other man also has (7261') 
the other man's heap of bones; another man also has his own heap 
of bones, the bones of the springbok which he kills. 


276 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


He, hi Ine ll^a, hi llnau, hi j^aua jkwagen kkuiten, 
hi Ine ll^a, hi kkwhrreten* juhi llkho hi. Hin Ine 
(7262) llnau, hi kkwarreten llgwiya jkwagen, ( ) hi Ine 
Ikam td'i llgoro, e jkwaka juhi ss'o hi, hi Ine lla, 
toro jho jkwhgen au jkukko fra jkha. jkukko Ine 
ll^amki llnau, ha l^aua, ha Ine llnau, Jkwagen e, 
ha kkwhrreten hi, ha Ine lla, toro juhi jho hi, au 
(7263) jkukko ( ) jkha, jkukkoka lka,f ha Ine lla, toro 
Jho jkwagen, L Jkukko Ine ll^amki llnau, au ha 

kwarreta jkwagen, ha Ine ll^amki lla, toro juhi jho 
jkwagen, au jkhkko j(p. Jkha, jkukkoka Ika. 

(7264) He, hi J Ine ( ) ll^amki, jkukko a l^ara, ha llnau, 

* Tssftssf ho eh, au jkwagen. 
f jkukko a Ikha wai, ha-ka Ika. 

(7263') X jkukkd llkuan e; n llkuan tatti, ha llkuan Iki lalti, hih koa 
Ikauken. He Ikauken, he e, ha llkuan Ike Ikamma hi. Hah 

• ° ' , ° t J v ~ 3v 0 ° 

Ikau a; hah Ikamma jkhwa a ha a, aka tf e; hah Ikamma 

jkhwa a a, ha a, aka ti e ; au Jkui laitfken Ine Ikamma Jkhwa 

latti-Qpua. 

(7264') ( ) jk'eta Ikagen ^auki hi wai ||gai||gaiten, au hih jnahna- 

sseya jk'eta tuken Jnwa, jk'eta tuka ssin kwe, Ikhi. Ta, f Ike 
llnau, i ttah-i, tfken yauki aken; ta, i ta Iku-g Ine ttan-ttan, 
au 1 ttan-i ; au i |%I i Jyauoken, au f sse ttan-ttan. He tfken 
e, l Ine ttan-ttan, i. 

Wai Ike Iki Ikoken-dde. He tfken e, f ta ttan-ttan, au wai. 
(7265') He tfken e, jkauken e +ennte, ssi ^auki ( ) ta ka, hi llgwften, 
au wai ttu. Ta, wai Ike ta Igwain l, he, f Ine ttan-ttan. He 

r r ^ \ ~ 

wai |ne ||khoe jkhe i, he f Ine ttan-ttan, i. He tfken e, i ya'uki 


INANNA-SSE. 


277 


And when they have boiled other bones, they again 
gnaw, # putting them upon (the ostrich breastbone 
dish). When they have finished gnawing the bones, 

( ) they take up the ostrich breastbone upon which (7262) 
the bones are, they go to pour down the bones opposite 
to the entrance to the other one's hut. The other 
one (i.e. the neighbour living opposite) also when he 
has boiled, takes the bones which he gnaws, he goes 
to pour them down, opposite to the entrance of the 
other one's ( ) hut, (upon) the other one's heap of (7263) 
bones, f he goes to pour down the bones upon it. 
Another man also does thus, when he has gnawed the 
bones, he also goes to pour down the bones opposite 
to the entrance of the other one's hut, (upon) the 
other one's heap of bones. 

And, they J ( ) also (do it), a different man does (7264) 


* Biting off the flesh from the hones. 

\ The heap of hones belonging to the other man who killed the (7263') 
springbok. 

J Another man (it) is. I think that he has a wife and children. 

These children are those for whom he cuts off meat. He cuts 
meat ; he cuts off for this child (a hoy) this piece of meat ; he 
cuts off for this (other) child (also a hoy) this (other) piece of 
meat ; while the woman cuts off meat for the little girl. 

( ) The women do not eat (the meat of) the springbok's shoulder (7264') 
blades, because they show respect for the men's arrows, so that the 
men may quietly kill. For, when we miss our aim, the place is 
not nice ; for we are wont to he ill when we miss our aim ; when 
we shoot destruction to ourselves, when we are going to be ill. 

Therefore we become ill. 

The springbok are in possession of (invisible) magic arrows (?). 

Therefore, we are ill on account of the springbok. Therefore, we 

do not ( ) allow the little children to play upon the springbok skin. (7265') 

For the springbok is wont to get into our flesh, and we become ill. 

And the springbok is inside of us and we become ill on account of 
it. Therefore, we do not play tricks with springbok's hones ; for 
we put the springbok's bones nicely away, while we feel that the 


278 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ha ll^amki l^aua, ha Ine ll^amki kkwarreten juhi 
llkho jkwagen, au to i llgoro ; ha Ine ll^amki ssa, 
toro juhi Iho jkwagen, au jkukko ^u jkha. 

(72G5) Hih ll^amki llnau, hi li wai, hih ll^amki ( ) Iki 
Ihih Ikoa, au hi llkaueten Ihih lk(5a ; hih llah, 
fatten juhi llkho lla, au Ikukko ^u jkha ; hin llah 
fatten luhi llkho lla, L Hih ssan Ikuen le ll^auken, 
(7266) au Ikoa, hih Ikuen ll^aiiken, ( ) au hi l^ka,* hih 
Ikuen ki le ll^auken au Ikoa, au hi l^ka, au hih 
ko-k6a, au hi l^ka; hih Ikahn (Ida jgoe au hi l^ka. 
Hih llnau, ll^a'uken e Skhuru,t he ssueh jk'au, hih 
(7267) ii^amki hho hi ; hih ( ) kda Oh6ken,J e ll^auken llna 
hi ; hin llah luhi llkho hi, au jkukko ^u jkha. 

Hih ll^amki llnau, Ikaokenka § jkwdgen, e jkauken 
Ion hi, bin Sl^amki, jkanhjkanh Slwk£ hi ; hih llah juhi 
(7268) nkho hi, au jkukko ( ) jkha. 

Hih llnau, llgaitenta jkwagen, hih llnau, au hi 
kkwarreten hi, hi h Iku hi, au llneih ; au hih ta, 

yenyen waita jkwagen ; ta, i Iku akken waita jkwagen, an 
iten tatti e, wai Ike ta Igwain i. Waiten llxamki Iki tchuen, 
e jkoken-dde ; he ta llnau, hi jkheya l, i liken ttm. 

(7266') * Iwka e jkwai. 

f llxauken e ssuen jk'au, hi llkuan e. 

(7267) J Hin Iku-g Ine llkau ta wai au Qhoken. 

(7267 ? ) § Waika jkwagen. 


jNANNA-SSE. 


279 


as follows, lie also boils, he also gnaws, putting the 
bones upon an ostrich breastbone ; he also conies to 
pour down the bones opposite to the entrance of the 
other one's hut. 

They also do thus when they cut up a springbok, 
they also ( ) take out the stomach, as they, cutting (7265) 
open (the springbok), take out the stomach; they go 
to shake out the contents of the stomach opposite 
to the entrance of the other one's hut ; they go to 
shake out the contents of the stomach there (upon 
the other one's heap of bones). They [having washed 
it well] come to lade blood into the stomach, they 
dip up blood ( ) with their hand,* they lade blood (7266) 
into the stomach with their hand, while they turn 
with their hand (holding the right hand like a scoop) ; 
they holding, form a tortoise [shell] with their hand. 

With regard to the blood which has spilt, f that which 
lies upon the earth, they also take it up (with the 
earth on which it lies), ( ) together with the bushes J (7267) 
upon which there is blood ; they go to put them 
down opposite to the entrance of the other man's hut 
(the hut of the man who killed the springbok). 

With regard to the I kadken bones, § from which the 
children (breaking them) eat out the marrow, they 
also collect them together ; they go to put them down 
opposite to the entrance of the other one's ( ) hut. (7268) 

With regard to the shoulder blade bones, when 
they have gnawed them, they put them away in the 

springbok is wont to get into onr flesh. The springbok also 
possesses things which are magic sticks ; if they stand in us, we, 
being pierced, fall dead. N 

•One hand. (7266') 

f It is blood which lies {lit. " sits ") upon the ground. 

f They lay the springbok on the bushes. (7267) 

§ Springbok's bones. (7267') 


280 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jkuihjkuih ^au sse yabuh hi ; au hin tatti, Jkukko 
ssan ttan-a. 

(7269) Hin Iki lla jkukko jkhajkha; au ( ) kin ta, 

jkiikkoka Ikhwa, sse lla Ion hi; ta, jkukko a Ikha 
wai. 11(3 tiken e, hi Iki lla jkukko a, jkhajkha. 

Ilgaitaken e, hi kkwhrreten hi ; hin Iku hi au llneihta 
(7270) IlkhouHkhou, ( ) bin e, hi Iki le hi, I. 

Hin Ikau Ikam wax j^a, hin Iki lla jkukko a hi 
au hih Ine l^aiia wai llwkoe, hih Ine kkwarreten 
hi-ta jkwagen, hih koa jkhwiten, he hi ta jkui laiti 
(7271) sse ( ) Iku hi, jkui laiti sse Ikuakken, Ikuakka ha 
a llhollho, ha sse lla Ike a tchueh, au M kkubbbo 

/ O' o 

t r \ 9 J. m, f 

Ikam lla jkukko ; ha Ine llan, a Jkukko a hi ; au Jkui 

(7272) laiti Ikuakka ha a, wai ttuka llhollho. ( ) jkui laiti 

Ine Ikuakka ha a hi ; hah Ine ttuerre hi, ha Ine le 

\ r 

te hi, au llho, he, ha Ine Ikam lla jkukko. 

Hi Ine llah, a jkukko hi; he jkukko ( jkukko I ha) 
(7273) ine ll^amki a ha a, tto, he jkiya; hah Ine ( ) ll^arhki 

r 

jkou llwke llhara, au tto ; au jkukkbken tatti e, ha 
a jkukko llhollho. 

f r 

Hb tiken e, jkui gwai Ine ll^amki k Jkukko a, 
(7274) ha-ha-ka ( ) llhollho, ha a gwai, ha-ka llhollho. 

* In a paper published in the Westminster Review (New Series, 
No. cvii, July, 1878, ii, " The Mythology and Religious Worship 
of the Ancient Japanese "), it is stated that the Japanese used the 
shoulder blade of a deer for the purpose of divination ; and that 
Pallas found a similar practice among the Kirghiz, by whom the 
shoulder blade of a sheep was employed. 

[In Staffordshire, also, sixty years ago, the shoulder blade bone 
of a sheep was believed to possess the power of foretelling the 
future. — E d.] 


INANNA-SSE. 


281 


hut ; * because they desire that the dogs may not 
crunch them ; while they feel that the other man 
(who shot the springbok) would miss his aim. 

They take to the other man (who shot the springbok) 
the upper bones of the fore legs, while ( ) they (7269) 
intend that the other man's child shall go (and) eat 
out the marrow from them ; for the other man was 
the one who killed the springbok. Therefore they 
take to the other man the upper bones of the fore leg. 

The shoulder blade bones which they gnaw, they put 
away in the sticks of the hut, ( ) they are those into (7270) 
which they put them. 

They cut off the back of the springbok's neck, they 
take it to the other man (who killed the springbok) ; 
while they boil the springbok's back, they gnaw its 
bones, together with the tail, which they wish the 
wife ( ) to put away, that the wife may, rubbing, (7271) 
make soft for him bags, that he may go to get things, 
when he bartering goes to another man; he goes to 
give them to another man, when the wife has rubbed, 
making soft for him, springbok skin bags. ( ) The (7272) 
wife rubs, making them soft for him; he folds them 
up, he lays them into (his own) bag, and he goes to 
the other man. 

They (the man and his wife) go, to give them to 
the other man; and the other person (that is, the 
other man's wife) also gives her (the first man's 
wife) itbfi which is red; she ( ) also gives some (7273) 
II hara with the tid, because the other one (the first 
man's wife) gave the other bags. 

Then, the man also gives to the other man his own 
( ) bags, — he who is the man, his own bags. And the (7274) 

f For a little further information regarding tt'o and II hara 
see IX.— 237. 


282 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


f \ „ 

He jkukko Ine ll^amki a ha a, jnwa ; an han tatti, 
ha ka jkukko sse Ikul ha, au jnwa, jgaojgao, jkukko 
(7275) sse Ikul ha a, au jgaojgao. He tiken e, jkukko ( ) 
Ine Ikul ha, au jgaolgao. 


TREATMENT OF BONES BY THE 
NARRATOR'S GRANDFATHER, TSATSI. 

(7270') Rih e, h Jkoihyah a, oa luhaiten jkhajkhaka 
Ikwagen, hih tau koa ilgaiten, hih tau k(5a wai 
Slkhuruken ; au hih tatti, i l^ka Ike ta llkho ttwl, 
au i l^a-i, au jkuihjkum ya hi wai llkhullkhuruken, 
i Iwka Nkhd ttwl; i Tauki ine Ski, ti e, i ta Ikuei 

^ ^ \ j. „ 

* )Va, I, au i Iwkoo, au i l^a-i. 

(7271') ( ) He tiken e, i ta *umm ie i Sdka au ttoa 

(ttii a Ikuakka, ha llkuan e) ; he jkui laiti Ine llkhiii 
hho ha, ha Ine +um-ma hi hi, i Ine lid 1^ i Idka, 
a; he e, i Ine l^kdo, I; an i tatti, i idka Ine Iota. 

r * f f f 

I Ine l^a-i, au i jga wai. Hih e, i idka ka llkho 

ttwi, au i l^a Ihta llkhiii ten, au wai jnoeya ta 1, 

(7272 ? )au ( ) waiten tatti, wai Ike ^auki jkwaitente, au 
i jkaka. He tiken e, wai gwai a, ha ka Iku I ttai 
I hih ti e, ha Iku ttai jke sse i, i Iku ssa l^a. Ha Iku 
jku^e lie, ha Iku lla tt&h, au l iku leta llkhiiiten a, 
i dd(5a dda ha. 


ts/tsi's tkeatment of bones. 283 

D 

other man also gives him arrows; because he (the 
man who brought the bags) wishes that the other 
man may give him in exchange poisoned arrows, that 
the other man may give him in exchange poison 
(i.e. poisoned arrows). Therefore, the other man ( )(7275) 
gives him in exchange poison. 


TREATMENT OF BONES BY THE 
NARRATOR'S GRANDFATHER, T SAT SI. 

Thus my grandfather ( Tsatsi ) was one who put (7270') 
away (in the sticks of the hut) the upper bones of the 
fore leg, and the shoulder blades, and the springbok's 
II khuruken ; because the first finger (of our right hand) 
is apt to get a wound when we are shooting, if the 
dogs eat the springboks' WkhuWkhuruken , our first 
finger has a wound ; we do not know how to manage 
with it, when we pull the string as we are shooting. 

( ) Therefore, we sew our first finger into a (7271') 
cover (?) (it is skin which has been rubbed and made 
soft), which the wife cuts out, she sews it for us ; 
we put our finger into it ; and then we pull the (bow-) 
string, while we feel that our finger is inside. We 
are shooting, when we lie in wait for the springbok. 

Then it is that our finger gets a wound, when we 
shoot, lying in the screen of bushes, while the spring- 
bok come up to us as we lie, because ( ) the springbok (7272') 
are not a little numerous, when we have gone by 
night (among them, making a shelter behind which 
to shoot). Therefore, this male springbok, — he comes 
out from this place, he walks, coming up to us, — we 
shall shoot (him). He runs away, he goes to lie 
down (to die), while we lie inside the screen of bushes 
which we have made. 


284 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


HOW THE FATHER-IN-LAW OF THE 
NARRATOR TREATED BONES. 

(7272') ilkhabbo llkuah Iku a, 6a luhaiten herru-i an 

(7277) ikwagen; h6 tiken e, ii ssin Iku-g Ine ( ) iya, au 

h tatti, n Ihah l6ya hi. 

N iku-g Ine luhaiten jkwagen, a-a jkuihlkuih 
llgaitenta jkwagen, au ii tatti. ii Opuailhi Ilkhabbo 
a ssin iya. H6 tiken e, llg6o-ka-lkui Ine iya. 


YII. — 164. 

L. 

TACTICS IN SPRINGBOK HUNTING. 

( Given in December, 1878, by Ihan+kass'o, from personal observation.) 

(8067) jkui a a [5.J, hah Iki j^uij^ui. He tiken e, ba 

r t f 

Ine liken I ho l^ul e jkulya, au ti e a [6.], au hah 
(8068) ka, hi ssin Ine llkbba jkui a ( ) jkhe, wai ssin Ine 
SlUkoen Iboa hi, au wai ggauwa Ikoaken. Ta, wai 
ssan j^uonni jkdu ttin ha, au ha Ine jkita,* jk'e- 
kkuiten wai, wai koa ssan j^uohni Ikbu ttin ba, 
(8069) au ti e, ( ) ha ssin llkhouken jkhe bi. Han Ine 

(8068') * llkuah ssual wai, wai sse jkuxe I® jk'e-kuiten. Han ya'uki 
ttamQpua [ku^e lla, ta, ha baibbai-i waita j^we-lna, au han ka, 
(8069') wai sse yauki jka hho sse jkui a ( ) ssan ta ti ©puorru-e. 


TACTICS IN SPKINGBOK HUNTING. 


285 


HOW THE FATHER - IN - LAW OF THE 
NARRATOR TREATED BONES. 

•"Dream" was the one who threw bones upon (7272') 
a heap; therefore, I ( ) did so, while I felt that (71277) 
I had married into them (i.e. into the family). 

I threw the bones upon a heap, (and) gave the 
shoulder blade bones to the dogs, while I felt that 
my father-in-law, "Dream," was the one who did 
thus. Therefore, " Smoke's Man " (the son of 
"Dream") does the same. 


VIE— 164. 

L. 

TACTICS IN SPRINGBOK HUNTING. 


This man [who stands at 5], he has ostrich feathers (8067 ) 
upon sticks.* Therefore, he sticks (into the little 
bushes) a large stick with ostrich feathers (upon it) 
here [at 6], because he wants it to look like a man 
who ( ) stands, so that the springbok may see it, (8068) 
when they go towards the (lesser) feather brushes. 

For, the springbok would (otherwise), turning back, 
pass behind him, when he was driving j* the springbok 
for the other people, the springbok would, turning 
back, pass behind him, at the place where ( ) he (8069) 


* The \%%l\%ui are three in number; of these he sticks two^gQg^') 
(a longer and a shorter) into the ground at 6 and 7 ; the smallest 
of the three he holds in his hand, waving it over his head to make 
the springbok afraid of him. He had been calling the springbok; 
hut is now silent ; because the springbok have come into the curve 
of the feather brushes. 

f (He) drives the springbok, that they may run in among the (8068') 
other people. He does not a little run along, for, he passes the 
foremost springbok, while he desires that the springbok may not 
pass by on one side of the man who ( ) came to lie on this side. (8069') 


286 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ildten jk'ui hi. tiken e, ba Ine liken jho j^ui, 

i [6.J. Hah Ine llah, ll^amki liken jho j^ui-Opuonni 
e lu&rri [7.J ; an hah ka, ha sse ilnau j^ui-Opuoi'mi 
(8070) e +ehni-Opnoiini, ( ) hih e, ha Ine ss'uai wai, 1; an 
hah ka, l^we-lna sse jkii^e, jkou jkhe, jkii^e jkou 
jkhe jkni a jkou ta [9.J; hah a, ha ka, j^we-lna 
(8071) sse jku^e jkhe ha. # H4 tiken e, wai Ine llnau, ( ) 
ha jkui, ha Ine I^I wai a jkuh ss'o j^we-Sna, waiiten 
Ine Ski akken, an waiten t&tti, wai a ssin jkuh 

r r r 

ss'o jkilkko, ha i kkiii, hah Igerri, an wai a ssih 
(8072) j k U n ss^o ha-ha, hah Ine ( ) i kkui, au hih ta ti e, 

r r f 

hi likoo Iki, an jkilkko tth jkono, hih k(5a llg^rre, 
ha ^auki j^wa jkhejkhe. 

(8070 ? ) * 8. jkui a ta jgouken ; Ikui a ta juhobbaken. Ha ta llhai a 

Sna Ikiya. 


TACTICS IN SPKINGBOK HUNTING. 


287 


had stood, calling them. He runs forward from it. 
Therefore, he sticks in a feather brush at it [at 6]. 

He goes, also to stick in a little feather brush, which 
is short [at 7j ; while he intends, with the little 
feather brush which is very small ( ) to drive the (8070) 
springbok, as he wishes that the foremost one may 
run, passing through, may run passing by the man 
who lies between [at 9] ; he is the one to whom 
he (the man who drives the springbok) intends the 
foremost to run.* Therefore, the springbok do thus, 
when ( ) this man shoots the springbok which follows (8071; 
the leading one, they divide nicely ; because, the 
springbok which was following the other turns aside, 
it darts aside, while the springbok which had been 
following it ( ) turns aside [in an opposite direction], (8072) 
while they, springing aside, divide at the noise of 
the arrow on the other one's skin, that and (the noise 
of) the feathers, which went so quickly. 

# [At 8 is] the man who lies . . . ; the man who lies to (8070') 
leeward. He lies . . . " with a red head ". 






CO W3 <0 i" 00 


Row of sticks with feathers tied upon them, used in springbok - 
hunting, to turn the game. The lines represent the Bushmen 
lying in wait for them. 

1. From this direction the herd of springbok comes. 

2. Here they go towards the row of sticks with feathers tied 
upon them. 

Here stands a woman, who throws up dust into the air. 

This man, whose sticks they are, lies at their head. 






BUSHMAN CHILDREN. 
Photographed at Salt River in 1884. 






VIII. Personal History . 



T! 



290 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


VIII.— 88. 

B. 

IlKABBO'S CAPTURE AND JOURNEY 
TO CAPE TOWN. 

First Account. 

( Given in May, 1871.) 

(242) N Ihin ti e a, n ssa, au h Ihin h-h-ga j^oe, au 
n ha Iki whai. Ilko^aitagen Ine ho h-n; han Ine 

(243) llhih h llkunllkun. ( ) Ssften kua h Opuon, hin 
kua, h Opua^ai I ha ; ssften Ine jnuanna, au ssften 
I Ihin jgwe ui korohi, au korohiyaken jkhei. Ssften 
llhih, Ikam I la Gau>*au ; ssften Ine Man 4kaka ha; 
ssften Ine llneillnei ha. 

Ssften Ine leta ttoronk-ga lln&h. Ssften Ine Iki 
leya ssf jkwajkwaken au Oho. jkuarraken Ine ssa 

(244) ssi, au ssf jkwajkwakaken leta Oho; ( ) ssften Ine 
Ikfii llkdita au Oho. jkuarraken Ine ssan Iki le hi 
jkwajkwaken au Oho ; hm Ine Opuoin, au hi 
jkwajkwakaken leta Oho. Hin Ine leta tt^rein-ta 

r ° ~ r 

llneih. Au ssften ha Iki Gau^au-ka jgei, jkuarraken 

' f ° _ r °Z. U ' 

Ine ssan hi hi. Ssf-ta-kuken Ine hi hi, ssften kua 

o / o 

Ikuarra. 

• o 

(245) Ssften Ine ttai; ssften Ine dago hi jgei, ( ) au 
ssiten Ikam ssa Totoriya ; * ssf lhah-gu, hin dago 
hi hi-ta jgei, au hin Ikam ssa Totoriya. 

Ssften Ine ssan hern-i jkauoken au Totoriya, au 
ssften tabba lyarra. Ssften Ine Ikai Ikauoken, au 

o */V o * r • 3 o / ^ 

ssi jkatjkatten^u ; ssften Ine herri-i Jkaiibken jket- 

(246) jkdtten. Ssften Ine ll^a, ( ) ssften Ine ttabba j'au. 

* Victoria West. 


IlKABBO's CAPTURE AND JOURNEY TO CAPE TOWN. 291 


YIII.— 88. 


B. 


IlKABBO'S CAPTURE AND JOUKNEY 
TO CAPE TOWN. 

First Account. 

I came from that place, I came (here), when I came (242) 
from my place, when I was eating a springbok. The 
Kafir took me; he bound my arms. ( ) We (that is, (243) 
I) and my son, with my daughter's husband, we were 
three, when we were bound opposite to (?) the wagon, 
while the wagon stood still. We went away bound 
to the Magistrate; we went to talk with him; we 
remained with him. 

We were in the jail. We put our legs into the 
stocks. The Korannas came to us, when our legs 
were in the stocks; ( ) we were stretched out (?) in (244) 
the stocks. The Korannas came to put their legs 
into the stocks; they slept, while their legs were in 
the stocks. They were in the house of ordure (?). 

While we were eating the Magistrate's sheep, the 
Korannas came to eat it. We all ate it, we and the 
Korannas. 

We went; we ate sheep on the way, ( ) while we (245) 
were coming to Victoria; our wives ate their sheep 
on the way, as they came to Victoria. 

We came to roll stones at Victoria, while we 
worked at the road. We lifted stones with our 
chests ; we rolled great stones. We again ( ) worked (246) 


292 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ssiten Ine Ikammaih I'au, au I'au waken luhisho 

o o • / • o • 

Ohoken. # Ssiten Ine Ikammaih I'au ; ssiten Ine 

O O O • / o 

^ ^ / 3 t t f t 

llkau kofohe au j'au ; ssiten Ine herri-i ha. Ike- 
kin taken Ine ttai lla. Ssiten Ine herri-i kofohe 
Ikwalkwaken ; ssiten Ine herri-i, ssiten Ine Ik aim 

• • o J o — ' o • 

f f ' f f f 

(247) ( ) ttoro jho j'au; ssiten Ine herri-a ki llkoi ha. 
Ssiten Ilya, ssiten llkau ha-ha, ssiten kiia Ikudrra. 
Ikudrra-kuitdken Ikammainya Ohoken. Ike-kuitaken 

• o ooo •/ 0*00 

f 3 

llna Jkuarra ; hin ll^arh Ikammainya I'au, au j'aun 
jiihisho Ohoken. Hin ll^a, hin shah l!kau-i Ohoken 
au j'au. 

(248) Ssiten Ine ll^a, ssiten Ine llhin ( ) shi llkhnllkuh 

f t — 

au kofohe Ikuinlkuin ; ssiten ttai lla, au ssiten 
jkan-na au kofohe ikuinlkuin, au ssiten Ikam ssa 
"Beaufor'',f au llkoenyah ta li. Ssiten Ine ssah 
kuarre hi-hi au j^ara. Ssiten Ine Ikei tabacca au 
Gau^au; ssiten Ine dauko luhi au jgei-ta jkwagen. 
Ssiten Ine ssah le Beaufor-ga ttron. jkodgen kau 

(249) ssi, au ssiten I eta ( ) Beaufor-ga ttronk. 

Ssiten Ine jkagen ko llhin ssi llkunllkun ; ssiten 
Ine llhin. Ssiten Ine In wo mail Ikoa ; ssiten Ine 
Inwomah ikau Ikoa, au IkuefrL Ssiten Ine ttai 

• 33 • o / *o o 5 

f if 

juhi-ssin l^ara, au ssiten |kuh sho kofohe, au 



# ^ # f 

au ssdten llhinya, au ssiten llhin Ikam sha Se-ta-lkoa. 

o «/ / o o • a 


(250) ( ) Ssiten dago hi jgei, au ssiten Ikam ssa Se-ta-lkoa ; 
ssi ssi ssa ttaba hi. 

D 

* This is explained to he " something like a harrow ", carried 
by many Bushmen together. 

f The narrator meant Beaufort West here. 


llKABBO's CAPTURE AND JOURNEY TO CAPE TOWN. 293 

with earth. We carried earth, while the earth was 
upon the handbarrow. We carried earth; we loaded 
the wagon with earth ; we pushed it. Other people 
walked along. We were pushing the wagon's wheels ; 
we were pushing; we poured ( ) down the earth; (247) 
we pushed it back. We again loaded it, we and the 
Korannas. Other Korannas were carrying the hand- 
barrow. Other people (i.e. Bushmen) were with the 
Korannas ; they were also carrying earth ; while the 
earth was upon the handbarrow. They again came 
to load the handbarrow with earth. 

We again had ( ) our arms bound to the wagon (248) 
chain; we walked along, while we were fastened to 
the wagon chain, as we came to Beaufort, while the 
sun was hot. They (our arms) were set free in the 
road. We got tobacco from the Magistrate; we 
smoked, going along, with sheeps' bones. We came 
into Beaufort jail. The rain fell upon us, while we 
were in ( ) Beaufort jail. (249) 

Early (the next) morning, our arms were made 
fast, we were bound. We splashed into the water; 
we splashed, passing through the water in the river 
bed. We walked upon the road, as we followed the 
wagon, while the wagon went first. We walked, 
following the wagon, being bound, until we, being 
bound, came to the Breakwater. ( ) On the way, (250) 
we ate sheep as we came to the Breakwater ; we 
came (and) worked at it. 


294 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(249 ? ) ( ) Ihu Inc Iki jkein-na ssi If-ta korohe, au llga. 

Ssften Ine jk&gen ko llk(5i ssin li ; li-ta korohin Ine 
jkii^e ti Ikam ssa ssi an Cap, Ssften Ine ssah le 
Cap-ga tronk-ga llnein, an ssi'ten llkuwa, ssften kiia 
jkuarra ; ssften Ine Opuoin tten au llkuonna. 


(266) 


(267) 


(268) 


( 269 ) 


Second Account. 

( Given in May and June , 1871.) 

• t r f 

K lhan e a ; ii-ii a a ; n Opuon a a ; h Opuon 
lhan e a, au han jkauwa jkwa a +enni-Opua ; 
n Opua^aiten e a, au han ll^am jkauwa jkwa 
a +ehni-Opua ; n Opua^ai lhan a a ; ssiten Iku 
Ikuei-u. He ti hin e, llko^aiten Iku ho si, au 
ssiten Iku Ikuei-u, au ssften yauki l^koaiya ; ( ) 
llko^aitaken Iku ho ssi, au ssften ^auki l^koaiya. 

Ssften Iku llah le ssin korohi; llko^aitaken Iku Ike 
ttai ssi-ssi, au ssften le sho korohi. Ssi Ihanguken 
ll^am le sho korohi. Hin Ine I Ian Ihin au korohi ; 
hin Ine ttai au hi Inwalnwa. Korohin Ine llah Ikhe ; 
ssften Ihin au korohi ; ssften Ine tten, au ssi lham 
bhu le li. ( ) Ssften Ine Ilka llko jgei-Opua-ga a; 
n Opuon lhan Ilka te whai, a n Ika ha, a h-ga 
jnwa. Ssften Ine luhi ; ssften Ine tten. jgaueten 
Ine kwai ; ssften Ine Iki llkei li ; ssften Ine 
Ikagenko luhi. 

He ti hin e, ssften Ine ui hi, ssften Ine Ikam I la 
Gafiyau ; au ssften Ine jku^e 1 1 a, ssften juhi sho 
j^ara, au ssi Ihanguken Ine ( ) ttai lla, au hi 
jnwa jnwa. Ssften Ine Iku jku^e ^u ui hi, au ssften 
Iku-g Ine llkoaken jku^e ui hi. 


Hkabbo's capture and journey to cape town. 295 

( ) A white man took us to meet the train in the (249') 
night. We early sat in the train ; the train ran, 
bringing us to the Cape. We came into the Cape 
prison house when we were tired, we and the 
Korannas ; we lay down to sleep at noon. 


Second Account. 

My wife was there; I was there; my son was (266) 
there ; my son's wife was there, while she carried 
a little child (on her back) ; my daughter was there, 
while she also carried a little child ; my daughter's 
husband was there ; we were like this (in number). 
Therefore, the Kafirs * took (lit. " lifted") us, when 
we were like this, while we were not numerous; ( )(267) 
the Kafirs took us, while we were not numerous. 

We went to sit in the wagon; the Kafirs took 
us away, as we sat in the wagon. Our wives also 
sat in the wagon. They got out of the wagon ; they 
walked upon their feet. The wagon stood still; we 
got out of the wagon; we lay down, when we had 
first made a fire. ( ) We roasted lamb's flesh; my (268) 
son's wife roasted a springbok, which I had killed 
with my arrow. We smoked; we lay down. The 
day broke; we made a fire; we smoked early in the 
morning. 

Then, we left them, we went away to the Magistrate ; 
while we (who were in the wagon) ran along, we 
were upon the road, while our wives ( ) walked (269) 
along upon their feet. We ran, leaving them, while 
we altogether ran, leaving them. 

* Kafir police are probably meant here. 


296 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


f f t 

He ti hin e, ssiten Ine llan *kaka Gau>au ; 
Gau^auken Ine +kaka ssi. Ilko^aitaken Ine Iki lid 
ssi au tronk-ga llneih* au llga. Ssiten Ine llan Iki 
le ss! Ikwalkwaken au Oho ; Ihu-kowaken llka'u te 

(270) Oho-ko au ssi jkwajkwaken. ( ) Ssiten Ine Opuoin, 
au ssi jkwajkwakaken Iota Oho. jgaueten Ine kwal, 
au ssi jkwajkwakaken leta Oho. Ssiten Ine jkagenko, 
Iki Ihih sshi Ikwalkwaken au Oho, ssiten Ine hi eh ; 
ssiten Ine ll^a, ssiten Iki le ssi jkwajkwaken au 
Oho ; ssiten Ine ssuen, au ssi jkwajkwakaken leta 

(271) Oho. ( ) Ssiten Ine tten, ssiten Ine Opuom, au 
ssi jkwajkwakaken llkd'ita Oho. Ssiten Ine kk<5ah 
Ihih, ssiten Ine luhl, au ss! jkwajkwakaken llk<5'ita 
Oho. jke-ten Ine j^aua jgei-ta eh, au ss! jkwa- 
lkwakaken leta Oho. 

• o 

Gau^ahken Ine ssan Iki Ihih ssi Ikwalkwaken au 

o • • o 

Oho, au han tatti e, ha ga ssi ssi suen aken, ssi 
ss! ha, au han tatti e, ha-ga jgei e, ssi ha Iki hi. 

(272) ( ) Kattenyan ssan ha hi ssi, au Gaii^au-ga jgei, 
au ssiten ha, Iki hi; hin koa, jkuko, Kkabbi-ddau; 
hin koa jkwarra-ga-lk(e)owlk(e)ow. 

Hin Ine ll£a, hin Iki le hi jkwajkwaken au Oho ; 
hin Ine Opuom, au hi jkwajkwakaken leleta Oho. 
I kudrra - kuitaken Ine II yam ssa, hin Ine ssan le 

® o o o o / 

/ f 

llnem-ko, trronk-ga llnem-ko. 

* The word " tronk " means in the Dutch language a trunk, 
and in Cape Dutch a prison. 


IlKABBO'S CAPTURE AND JOURNEY TO CAPE TOWN. 297 

Then we went to talk with the Magistrate; the 
Magistrate talked with ns. The Kafirs took us away 
to the jail at night. We went to put our legs into 
the stocks ; another white man laid another (piece of) 
wood upon our legs. ( ) We slept, while our legs (270) 
were in the stocks. The day broke, while our legs 
were in the stocks. We early took out our legs from 
the stocks, we ate meat; we again put our legs 
into the stocks; we sat, while our legs were in the 
stocks. ( ) We lay down, we slept, while our legs (271) 
were inside the stocks. We arose, we smoked, while 
our legs were inside the stocks. The people boiled 
sheep's flesh, while our legs were in the stocks. 

The Magistrate came to take our legs out of the 
stocks, because he wished that we might sit comfort- 
ably, that we might eat ; for, it was his sheep that we 
were eating. ( ) Katten (" Piet Rooi") came (and) (272) 
ate with us of the Magistrate's sheep, while we were 
eating it ; also another man, Kkabbi-ddau ; also 
\kwarra-gd-\k[e)dw\k[e)ow. 

They again put their legs into the stocks; they 
slept, while their legs were in the stocks. Other 
Korannas also came, they came into another house, 
another " jail's house." 


298 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


VIII.— 89. 

B. 

IIKABBO'S JOURNEY IN THE RAILWAY 

TRAIN. 

(355) N shin hkaka ha, ti e li-ta korohi toai-L 

• f f \ 9 

N ss'oen ak'a li-ta kdrohi. Ss'iten ss'in jku llkoi 
ss'o, ss'iten kua kwobbo. 

(356) ( ) Nuiyan ss'in Ike-i n-h llku; hah Ine llgweten 
ki le h, au han tatti e h shah jaiten tin, he ti hin 
e ha llgweten ki le n i. N Ine ja ss'm kwobbo; 
ha ^uken ssin Ihoaka; ha ttuken ll^am I ho aka, ta 
hi Ikil Ihoaka. 

(357) Ihun Ikii e £u ss'in jkiya, ( ) ah hin tatti e hi 
aken. Kwobboken tatti e ha Iku iyoi, he ti 
hin e ha ttu Ihoaka i, au hah tatti e ha ^u 
Ihoaka I. 

Kwobb d waken ss'ih totto n-n : "Aken Ihin te 

o o 

de?" N ss'ih +kaken kwobbo: "N I'hm ti e a." 

(358) Kwobbo waken toto n: " Hi Iken te da?" ( ) N 
+kaka kwobbo: "N-ka j^oe e ll^ara-llkam.'' 


VIII.— 93. 

B. 

IIKABBO'S INTENDED RETURN HOME. 


( Given in July and August , 1873.) 

(2874) Aken henna, ti e, h jka ssho au j^de-ssho-jkui,* 
sse j^uonniya kke, n sse jkuiten h-ka !^<5e. N sse 


(2874') 


* The narrator says, that the moon's other name is \ x6e-sshd-\Jcui , 
and also that the sun's other name is the same. 

\xpe-ssh6-\kui means ( \a\kuhta says) "The man who knows all 
the places." 


IIKABBO'S JOUBNEY IN THE BAILWAY TBAIN. 299 


YIIL— 89. 

B. 

IlKABBO'S JOURNEY IN THE RAILWAY 
TRAIN.* 

I have said to thee that the train (fire wagon) is (355) 
nice. I sat nicely in the train. We two sat in (it), 
we (I) and a black man. 

( ) A woman did seize my arm ; she drew me (356) 
inside, because I should have fallen, therefore she 
drew me in. I sat beside a black man ; his face was 
black; his mouth (was) also black; for they are black. 

White men are those whose faces are red, ( ) for (357) 
they are handsome. The black man he is ugly, thus 
his mouth is black, for his face is black. 

The black man then asked me : " Where dost thou 
come from?" I said to the black man: "I come 
from this place." The black man asked me : " What 
is its name?" ( ) I said to the black man : " My (358) 
place is the Bitterpits." 


YIII.— 93. 

B. 

IlKABBO'S INTENDED RETURN HOME. 

Thou knowest that I sit waiting for the moon to (2874) 
turn back for me, that I may return to my place. 

* Erom Mowbray to Cape Town and back. 


300 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


( 2875 ) 


( 2876 ) 


( 2877 ) 


( 2878 ) 


( 2879 ) 


( 2880 ) 


( 2881 ) 


ttumm-a jke-ta-ku, ka kko-kkommi, au ka Ine 
Jhaue hi ; n sse ttumm-a hi-ka ( ) kko-kkommi, 
ti e, hi Ikue-dda ; hm ttumm-i j^6e-ta ti-kko-ka 
Sswa-ka-jke-ka kko-kkommi, i. He e, hi Ikue-dda, 
hm ttumm-i, i; au j^oe-ssho-jkui-kko, wa -g Ine 
Ikarra-ka, n sse Ikarra ssin, h ssm ( ) ssho kko 
ttumm-a, kko-kkommi e kkan, sse ttaii, hd e, 
kko-kkommi e Ihm llkhwe-ten. He e, n sse Ini 
kkomhi, l (au hi-hi); aii ka tatti e, hi jgweten 
Ihin llkhwe-ten ; au j^oe-ssho-jkui ya-g Ine tta ( ) 
Ikalkaiten ; au ka tatti e, n ddoa Ine llkda-ken 
jhaue ; n ssin Ine ddda +kakken+kakken hi, h 
Ikagen ttiiken. 

Ta, n Ikii ttabba llna, jke-ta-lkagen-ka ttabba-ka 
llnein. H Ikagen ttiiken e, ( ) ttumm-i llkhweten-ka 
kko-kkommi, he jgweten; hin ttumm-i J^oeten- 

y*Lr ' , W ' ° ° , 

j^oeten-kkuiten-ka kko-kkommi. Ta, n Iku llna; 

w t j w w 9 

h yauki Iki kko-kkommi ; au n tatti e, n yauki 
jhaue, h ssin Ine Iki ( ) kko-kkommi e jgweten ; 
au n tatti e, j^de-kko-ka jke Iku e a; he yauki 

^ f f t f Z 

Iki h-ka kko-kkommi. Hin yauki +kakken h-ka 

o 

+kakken+kakken ; ta, hi Ikii jhaue hi Ikagen ; au 
hin tta ti e, ttabba-ka jke Iku e, ( ) hd Iku ttabba 
Iki llneillnei. Hm Iku ttabba hha; hha sse Ikori-a 
hi ; hi ssan Ini hha e aken ; he e, hha 1 1 kail. 

Sswa-ka-jkdten Ikii llelle, hi Ikagen-ka llneillnei; 
hi ssin luhiluhi jkaun-ssih hi. ( ) Hd ti hin e, 


IIkXbbo's intended return home. 


301 


That I may listen to all the people's stories, when 
I visit them; that I may listen to their ( ) stories, (2875) 
that which they tell ; they listen to the Flat Bushmen's 
stories from the other side of the place. They are 
those which they thus tell,* they are listening to 
them ; while the other \y6e-ssh6-\kui (the sun) becomes 
a little warm, that I may sit in the sun ; that I may 
( ) sitting, listen to the stories which yonder come(?), (2876) 
which are stories which come from a distance, f 
Then, I shall get hold of a story from them, because 
they (the stories) float out from a distance ; while 
the sun feels ( ) a little warm; while I feel that (2877) 

I must altogether visit ; that I may be talking with 
them, my fellow men. 

For, I do work here, at women's household work. 

My fellow men are those who ( ) are listening to (2878) 
stories from afar, which float along ; they are 
listening to stories from other places. For, I am 
here; I do not obtain stories; because I do not 
visit, so that I might hear ( ) stories which float (2879) 
along ; while I feel that the people of another place 
are here ; they do not possess my stories. They 
do not talk my language ; for, they visit their like ; 
while they feel that work's people (they) are, ( ) (2880) 
those who work, keeping houses in order. They 
work (at) food; that the food may grow for them; 
that they should get food which is good, that which 
is new food. 

The Flat Bushmen go to each other's huts ; that 
they may smoking sit in front of them. ( )(2881) 
Therefore, they obtain stories at them ; because 

(2875') 
(2876') 


* With, the stories of their own part of the country too. 
f Wkallo explains that a story is "like the wind, it comes from 
a far-off quarter, and we feel it.' , 


302 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


hi Iki kko-kkommi i; au hih tatti, hi Ike jhaue, 
au hih tatti e, luhiluhi-ta jke e. 

N llnau ti e, n Ikii Ine jka j^de-ssho-jkui Ine sse 

/ v f / w v f 

j^uonniya kke ; n Ine sse jkSajkoa jke llko.* 
(2882) ( ) Ta, h ttiikko Ine +1, ti e, h ssiii Ine Iku I jnou 
j^de-ssho-jkui ; h sse-g Ine +kakka h-ka Gauyau, 
ti e, n llkuah Ine ttan, ha llwke, ha Ine e, h Ind 
(2883) sse ddda llkhwellkhwd ssih, n Ikagen ttuken; ( ) 
hd e, ttaittai llkarh I ho hi Ikagen. Hih ttumin-i 
hi : ta, h llkuah Ine +1, lhaulhau ; t n Ine ddda 
lhau-a ; h Ine ddoa dkakken hi h Ikagen ttuken ; 

* -¦ ! 7 ^ o C-7 o o / 

(2884) ta, n Iku ttabba llna, hi koa jke-ta Ikagen; ( ) hd 

w / r f r ~ ~ 

n >huki +kakken4kakken hi hi; ta, hi Iku i Iketen 

oo/7 o 

h au ttabba. 

• / w / / 

H ssih Ihamm Ine ssuen kkuerre h llkunllkun ; 

• D o o / 

t r ^ ^ t v 

llk'u Ine sse Ihin, i ; au hi tatti e, n Iku-g Ine ssho. 

(2885) ]Nf iku -g Ine I, ( ) ttumma llgaue kkumm, ha ii ka 

ttu ha ; au ka Ine Ikalka ssho, a ; ha sse-g Ine 

jgweten le n jnunttu. He } e, n Ine ttunmi-i, au 
(2886) n jnujnuhttu-ka ku ; au ka tatti e, ( ) h Ine ssho 
+g(e)ou. if kkoa Ine jka n ttss'i; au ka Ine 
tumma, juhi jhda au J^arra ; au ka tatti e, h Ike 
ssih jgweten juhi hhoa j^arra ; hih jgweten Ikam 
(2887) lla li-ka j^oe ; h sse lla ssuen hi; ( ) n ssih 
ttumrnttumin ki lua lie ; au h Inoa Ikii, e h ssih 

o D / • o • / 

r r t / 

lla, l ; au ka tatti e, kkomm llkuah e Ikhwe. Ha 

' ' ' U o D 

v ^ ^ C * u w* ^ v >J • / W 

^2881M jkuften ^ nau > ss ® jxusnni, han jkoa jk5 jho, haii jkoa 
jkoro jho. 

(2883 J ) t jhaujhau a jkwai, "one visit." 

Jkanjhau e I wkwaiya, "many visits." 

(2885') + jke-ta ko-kkommi. 


IlKABBO's INTENDED RETURN HOME. 303 

they are used to visit; for smoking's people they 
are. As regards myself (?) I am waiting that the 
moon may turn back for me; that I may set my 
feet forward in the path.* * * § ( ) For, I verily (?) (2882) 
think that I must only await the moon ; that I may 
tell my Master {lit. chief), that I feel this is the 
time when I should sit among my fellow men, ( )(2883) 
who walking meet their like. They are listening 
to them ; for, I do think of visits ; (that) I ought 
to visit ; (that) I ought to talk with my fellow 
men ; for, I work here, together with women ; ( ) (2884) 
and I do not talk with them; for, they merely 
send me to work. 

I must first sit a little, cooling my arms; that 
the fatigue may go out of them; because I sit. 

I do merely ( ) listen, watching for a story, which (2885) 
I want to hear ; while I sit waiting for it ; that it 
may float into my ear.f These are those to which 
I am listening with all my ears; while I feel that 
( ) I sit silent. I must wait (listening) behind (2886) 
me,$ while I listen along the road; while I feel 
that my name floats along the road; they (my three 
names) § float along to my place ; I will go to sit 
at it; ( ) that I may listening turn backwards (2887) 
(with my ears) to my feet's heels, on which I went ; 
while I feel that a story is the wind. It (the story) 


* When a man intends to turn back, he steps turning (?) round, (2881') 
he steps going backwards. 

f The people's stories. (2885') 

X II kablo explains that, when one has travelled along a road, (2886') 
and goes 'and sits down, one waits for a story to travel to one, 
following one along the same road. 

§ " Jantje," \uhi-ddoro, and II kabbo. 


304 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


llkuan ka jgwee-ten Ikam lie ll^an-kko. 116 e, 
(2888) i Ikeya Ikii-g Ine llkoe hho he jke; ( ) au hi yauki 
Ini Iki lla, ! enen. Ta, l Ike Iku e jgweten Ike -a 
\j(6'6 a Ibarra. I kaoken I kaoka-ken Iku jkhau tta. 
jkui Iken Iku llnun hh6a lk|okenlkabken ttssi ; * 
(2889) ( ) h6, ha jkui-ten lla, i. Au han tatti e, Ibarra 
a Ikuei Ika, han tta ; he e, Ikui luhi ssho hi. 

r ° * t * ' * o w • o f 

!^arra-ken Iku jke tta, ha-ka j^(5e, au j^arra-ken 
(2890) tatti e, J^arra Iku llkam tta. jke e ( ) llan-na j^(5e- 
kko, hi jnunttuken Iku ttunim llkam jho lla jkui- 
ten-ka jkui Ike ; h6, ha Ine jkui-ten lla, I. Ha sse-g 

/V w ft 

Ine +kerre j^de. Ta, \%6e llkuan ssho-g Ine ka 
(2891) Ohdken aken; au ( ) hin tatti e, hi Ine dd(e)ouwa ; 
au j^oe-ssho-j km ten yauki ll^koen hi, ha ssin ttai 
Una hi. Ta, ha Ikii-g Ine ssan llna \%6e a Ibarra; 
ha -ha-ka \%6e yauki e. Td, ha Ikil-g llnau, ti e, 
(2892) ( ) jk'e e Iki ssa ha, au jk'e-ta l;/6e, ha sse jhamm 
ssa IkamOpua ttabba llna llna hi. Han llkuan a +1 
j^de, ti e, ha llkuan a sse jkui-ten. 

Han Iku I, jka Iki j^uonni j^de-ssho-jkui ; jj^de- 
(2893) ssho-jkui ( ) sse ttai llnwarriten, ha sse jkui-ten, 

° r 3 3 t° _ ° «, « 

ha sse-g Ine Ikerre jkhwa ttu; h 6, ha ssin ywei 
hi. Ha sse-g Ine ttabba akken llnein ttssdrroken, 
au ha tatti e, ha Ine jkanh llwkeya ha-ka jkauken, 
(2894) hi sse-g Ine ( ) ttabba akka ha jkhwa; td, ha Iku 
ssin ttai ^u 6a j^6e ; au jke e Ibarra, hin Iku e, 
Ine ttai llna j^de. 116 -ta j^de yauki e ; ta llkabbo 


(2888 J ) * I n the plural, \kmken\k^cen ttss'i-tssi. In speaking of 
peoples' hacks in the plural, ll^a^o explains that the Bushmen 
say ttssett-ttssenxu. 


IIkXbbo's intended return home. 


305 


is wont to float along to another place. Then, our 
names do pass through those people ; ( ) while (2888) 
they do not perceive our bodies go along. For, 
our names are those which, floating, reach a different 
place. The mountains lie between (the two different 
roads). A man's name passes behind the mountains' 
back; ( ) those (names) with which he returning (2889) 
goes along. While he (the man) feels that the 
road is that which lies thus; and the man is upon 
it. The road is around his place, because the road 
curves. The people who ( ) dwell at another place, (2890) 
their ear does listening go to meet the returning 
man's names; those with which he returns.* He 
will examine the place. For, the trees of the place 
seem to be handsome; because ( ) they have grown (2891) 
tall; while the man of the place (II kabho) has not 
seen them, that he might walk among them. For, 
he came to live at a different place ; his place it 
is not. For, it was so with him that ( ) people (2892) 
were those who brought him to the people's place, 
that he should first come to work for a little while 
at it. He is the one who thinks of (his) place, that 
he must be the one to return. 

He only awaits the return of the moon ; that the 
moon ( ) may go round, that he may return (home), (2893) 
that he may examine the water pits ; those at 
which he drank. He will work, putting the old 
hut in order, while he feels that he has gathered 
his children together, that they may ( ) work, (2894) 
putting the water in order for him ; for* he did 
go away, leaving the place, while strangers were 
those who walked at the place. Their place it is 
not ; for II kabbo's father's father's place it was. 

* II kdbbo explains that the people know all the man's names. (2890' 


306 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2895) 

(2896) 

(2897) 

(2898) 

(2899) 

(2900) 

(7215) 

(7216) 

(7217) 


oa, oa-ka !^6e Iku e. He e, llkabbo oa ( ) ssm 
Ine Iliya hi ; au llkabbo oa oa-g Ine Ikuka, llkabbo 

V ~ / 

(5a -ken e, Ine Iliya hi. He e, llkabbo oa Ine 
Ikuken, llkabbo llkah e Ine 111 \x&e ; llkabbo llkah 
Ine Ikuken, ( ) llkabbo ken Ine III j^oe.* lie e, 

ft t 

llkabbo Ine I hah Ikerri-ten llko I la, Ikuobba-ah au 
j^oe, au hah tatti e, ha Ine Iku jkwai; hd ti hih e, 

f / V / V 

ha llkuan Ine jkerriten ssin, hi ha I ha, ( ) au !^oe, 
au han tatti e, ha-ka jkauken Iku-g Ine lhalha 

> r 

ssho. Ha ©puondde-ta jkaukaken Iku-g Ine tkakken, 
hih Ikii-g Ine III, hin jkanh hi hi, au hih tatti e, 
( ) hi Ine Ikakken llkuakken. 

Hd ti hih e, hi llkuan Ine Iholhoa hi llneillnei; 
au hih tatti e, hi Ikil-g Ine tabba hi llneillnei; hih 
Iku-g Ine ttabba akken hi-ka llneillnei ; au n-ka 
llneihyah Iku-g Ine jkwal, ( ) jkhou jkhe ; au hih 
Ine llanllan, II^I jkhe. Au hih tatti e, n llka-ka 
jkhwa, mmaii hi lhah, hih Ine lk|ti I hah I Mil ssin; 
hd ti hih e, hi llka^ai-ta jkhwa Ine mmaii, hah 
kkl; au han tatti e, ( ) ha lhah ttaiya au h-h ; 
han a, Ine Man, jkwajkwa ssa h-h; au han tatti e, 

* Jk'eten |ne ta, "Blauwputs" a, au hin tatti e, ha-ka jkaugen 
Ihoaka, ta, |ka|kagen |ke |ku e. 

Ilkabbo-ka j^oeten e llg&bo ; ( ) he, ha |ne llkoaken kokoa, 
han Iliya ki ||a j^oe ; he tfken e, ha |ne |ki jkhui-tteh, hin koa 
llxaii-ka-jkhoa. Hah |ne Iki llxpobbeten; he, ha |ne llkoaken 
Iliya ki lla, hah ( ) |ne Iki lunh. 

He tfken e, ha |ne llkenya llka-ttu, i. Ha Ine liken ta ©pua 
a. He tfken e, ttoi Ine la, au ha Opua; au hih tatti e, h 
©puailhi-ka ©pud Ike yaiiki ta ssin akken Ilka hi. 


IIkIbbo's intended return home. 


307 


And then II hallo's father ( ) did possess it; when (2895) 
II kabho's father's father died, II kabbo's father was 
the one who possessed it. And when II Jcabbo's 
father died, II Icabbd's elder brother was the one 
who possessed the place ; II Mbbd's elder brother 
died, ( ) (then) Wkabhd possessed the placed And (2896) 
then II kabbo married when grown np, bringing 
! Jcuobba-ah to the place, because he felt that he 
was alone; therefore, he grew old with his wife 
( ) at the place, while he felt that his children (2897) 
were married. His children's f children talked, 
they, by themselves, fed themselves; while they 
felt that ( ) they talked with understanding. (2898) 

Therefore, they (II kabbo* s children) placed huts for 
themselves; while they felt that they made huts 
for themselves; they made their huts nicely; while 
my hut stood alone, ( ) in the middle; while they (2899) 
(my children) dwelt on either side. Because my 
elder brother's child (Betje) married first, they 
(my own children) married afterwards ; therefore, 
their cousin's child grew up first; while she (the 
cousin) felt that ( ) she married, leaving me ; she (2900) 
who, from afar, travelling came to me ; because 


* I han^Jcass'd (son-in-law of Wkdbbo) gave in July, 1878, the 
following description of II kabbo' s place, Wgubo, or " Elauwputs." 

People (that is Bastaards) call it " Blanwpnts ", while they feel 
that its rocks are black ; for, they are slate. 

II kabbo' s place is II gubo; ( ) and he altogether went round, he, 
possessing, went along at the place ; thus, he possessed j khui-tten 
and W^dU-kaAkhoa. He possessed II xuobbeten (a certain water pool) ; 
and, he, altogether possessing, went along, he possessed I uim. 

Therefore, he dug out (at) || kg-ttu [the name of a place near 
Wgubo]. He dug, making a (deep) pitfall (for game), there. 
Therefore, an ostrich was slaughtered at that pitfall, because my 
father-in-law's pitfalls were surpassingly good ones. 

f The word Qpuondde here means both 1 1 Mb bo's son and daughter. 


(7215) 

(7216) 


308 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ii-n a yaisse kkiya ha-ha. Ha 6a-ken >auki a 
^aisseya ha. Ta, ha 6a Iku Ikuken, %a 6a ha. 
(2901) ST Iku a, I ne 1 1 ah, Jkoe Ikam ha, ( ) au ha ^oa 
a -g Ine Ikati Ikuken ; n Ine Iki ssa ha, au n-ka 
llnem. Au n tatti, h > ; auki ll^koen I Id Ikuka ha 
5a, h yauki Ine II;/ am ll^koen ti Ikuken ha ^oa; 
(2902) ta, ha ^oa Iku Il^a, ( ) hah Ikuken ^u ui ha; 
ii Iku-g Ine I, ttui kkomrn. 

He e, n Ine ^amma ha, au h tatti e, h jnaunkko 
Iku e yauddofo, h6 n Iku ^erreya au Jku^e l^a-an. 
(2903) H6, h llkuan +i, ti e, ha llkuan sse ( ) Iku Ini ha 
e Iwkwalya, he n a ha a hi. Han hi hi. Han ha 
hi h-ka jkhwa e # Jnaunkko Jkwai. H6 e, hi sse 
Iku Jku kkl, Ihm ii h-h ; au hi tatti e, hi Jku, hi 
(2904) n Jkhwai. Ta, h llkuah ( ) tta Ikakkenlkakken au 
Iku^e ; h llkuah ttan n ssm JkuJku^e Ikei tchuen. 

IIiil e, h llkuah ka Jku^e Ikea loa, h llkwa Iki 


(2903 J ) * To illustrate and explain the e used^here, the narrator tells 
me that one woman says to another : N-hd Ykliwd kkdn e a, he 
\naunkJc6 Veto at. 


(2901') 


(2902') 


f The father was killed by some one who was angry with 
him, while he himself was not angry; he had been visiting at 
another house, and had slept five nights away from home. A man 
who was at the place where his wife lived, gave the child food, 
hut it still cried after its own father. The man was angry 
with the father, because he had stayed away from his wife, 
UJcabbo says, and because the child still cried for him. And, 
when the father had returned, and was sleeping by the side of 
his wife, in his own hut, the man came behind the hut in the 
very early morning, and stabbed him as he slept, with a Kafir 
assegai, which had been bought at Wittberg. As he lay dead 
in the hut, the rest (including his wife) left him, by the advice 
of the murderer. 

J The mother died afterwards of some internal sickness ; she 
was not buried, because, at the time of her death, she only 


IIkXbbo's intended return home. 


309 


I was the one who feeding, brought her up. Her 
father was not the one who had fed her. For, her 
father died, leaving her. I was the one who went 
(and) fetched her, ( ) when her mother had just (2901) 
died; I brought her to my home. As I felt that 
I had not seen her father die,f I also did not see 
her mother die ; for, her mother too, ( ) died,J (2902) 
leaving her ; I only heard the story. 

And then I went to fetch her (Betje), while I felt 
that I was still a young man, and I was fleet in 
running to shoot. And I thought that she would 
( ) g e ! plenty of food, which 1 should give her. (2903) 
She (would) eat it. She (would) eat with my (own) 
child, which was still (an only) one. And then 
they would both grow, going out from me (to play 
near the hut); because they both ate my game 
(" shot things ,? ). For, I was ( ) fresh for running ; (2904) 
I felt that I could, running, catch things. 

Then, I used to run (and) catch a hare, 1 brought 


had a younger sister with her, who was suffering from the 

same illness. The latter went away with difficulty, taking the 

dead mother's child to a relative's hut, not near at hand. From 

the relative's hut, the fire of WMbbo's dwelling could be seen 

at night. She proceeded thither with the child, and was 

met by him midway. Before he got the child, he had seen the 

dead mother's bones lying at her hut, her body having just 

been eaten by jackals. II Icabbo had gone off from his home in 

haste, hearing that the wife's sister was ill, and fearing that 

she might die on the way, and the child, yet living and playing 

about, might be devoured by jackals. He left his own home 

early one morning, and in the evening reached the spot where 

the mother's bones lay. He made a hut at a little distance, 

and slept there one night, and the next ( ) morning went to (2903 ? ) 

fetch the child at the relation's hut ; but the sister met him 

with it on the road. He slept at the newly-made hut, to which 

he returned with the child, for one more night, and then went 

back to his own home. 


310 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


sse ha, au h-ka llneih, au ha leta h-ka llho ; au 
(2905) llkoin ( ) ha tta li. Au h tatti e, n a Tauki Ina 
whai. Ta, h Ikii Ina l^a. S' llkuah ka l^a hho 
jkdoken. S' llkwa le llko kkisse ha au llnein. 
(2906) N IM llkwa ssa Hurra ha, an llnein. Ha Ine ( ) 
l^aua ha au jkoa ; ssl sse lamma l^abha. S' a ssah 

? w v v 9 9 

Jhann l§a au Igaue, n a sse hhitta ttih, au 
Oh6ken-ka Ikahh. S' a sse l^a hhd ha, Ikauka sse 
hha. Ta, whaiya ttaiya. He ti hih e, h Iku-g 
(2907) Ine ( ) l^a-i loa, h ssih jkujku^e Ikuken hi, au 
llkoin, au hi Ine jkii^eya llkoe ttih llkuohna-ka 
llkoin. Hi Ikil-g Ine Ilka Ikuken au llkoin ; au 
(2908) ka-ken +i, ti e, loa llkuah Tauki ( ) Twe ; ta, ha 
ka ikii ha Iki Ohdken llwkdken, au ha Tauki Twa 
ki le Ikhwa, au Ohoken ll^kdken e ha Tauh hi. 
He ti hih e, ha ka Ikii llkoin kki I Ina, au ha Tauki 
(2909) ywe. Ha Ikii llehh, ( ) llkoe ssho llkuonna ; au ha 
tatti e, ha Tauki llkuakka Ikhwa ttu, ha sse-g Ine 
j^u ; ha sse-g Ine lla Twa. Ta, ha ka Ikii jkajka 
llkde ssho llkoin. 

(2910) Hd ti hin e, n ( ) jku^e ha, au llkoin, llkoin sse 

Ilka Ikuka kke ha. h ssih ha ha, Ikuka au llkoin; 

au ka tatti e, h a jku^eya ha, au hah lhammi lla, 

(2911) au h. Hah Iku-g Ine lhammi, Ikuken tte ha, ( ) 

au llkoin ; au hah tatti e, ha Ikii llkowa llkoe ttih 

llkoin ; au hah tatti, ha llwkoen h, au h jkuh ssih 

ssd ha. Hah Tauki Ine jkaujkau jkhe, ha ssih Ine 
^ 9 9 
(2912) ddaiten-i. Ta, ha Ikii ( ) [ku^eya ttih, au hah 


IIkXbbo's intended betukn home. 


311 


it to my home, while it was in my bag, while 
the sun ( ) was hot. I felt that I had not seen (2905) 
a springbok. For, I saw a hare. I used to shoot, 
sending np a bustard. I put it in(to the bag) (and) 
brought it home. My wife would come to pluck 
it, at home. She ( ) boiled it in the pot; that we (2906) 
might drink soup. On the morrow I would hunt 
the hare, I would be peeping about in the shade 
of the bushes. I would shoot it up,* that the 
children might eat. For, the springbok were gone 
away. Therefore, I was ( ) shooting hares, that (2907) 

I might chasing, cause them to die with the sun, 
when they had run about in the noonday's sun. 

They were " burnt dead " by the sun ; while 
I remembered that the hare does not ( ) drink ; (2908) 
for it eats dry bashes, while it does not drink, 
putting in water upon the dry bushes which it 
crunches. Therefore, it remains thirsty there, while 
it does not drink. It dwells, ( ) sitting in the (2909) 
summer (heat), because it does not understand 
water pans, so that it might go to the water, so 
that it might go to drink. For it waits, sitting in 
the sun. 

Therefore, I ( ) chase it, in the sun, that the (2910) 
sun may, burning, kill it for me, that I may eat 
it, dead from the sun; while I feel that I was the 
one who chased it, while it went along in fear of 
me. It, in fear, lay down to die ( ) from the sun ; (2911) 
because it had become dry (while running about) 
in the sun; because it saw me when I followed it. 

It did not stop to walk, that it might look back- 
wards. For it ( ) had run about, when it was tired. (2912) 

* i.e., make it spring up from its form and run away, falling (2906') 
down dead later. 


312 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ilkuwa. Han Iku ll^ell^e, hail Ikuken ; au. hail ikil 

w / 

ddoa Jku^eya ttin. He ti hih e, ha Ikii-g Ine 
Ikuken tteh lla ; au han tatti e, I Iku Iku Ika ha ; 
(2913) au hah jku^eya ( ) Ilkde ttin llkuonna, au han tatti 
e, Hkuohna-ka llkoin e,* he tta li. jkaun tta li, he 
llka-i ha jnwajnwa. 


He ti hih e, h ka Iku-g Ine lla hlio ha, au ha 

(2914) Ikuken tta. ST Iku-g Ine le tte ha, ( ) au lmva-ka 

llho. H a sse ttai ttau ilwkoen llgaue loa-kko. 
Ha sse u le llkoin ; ha sse jhaiiimi Ilkde hho llkoin, 
au ka Iku^e jkuh ssho ha. H a sse ddaukko Ika, 
(2915) llkoin ya sse Ilka Ikuken ha. ( ) N a sse Iku lla 
hhd ha ; au hd Ikii-g Ine Ikuken tta. N a sse 
Ikii-g Ine sshd ko |kau ha, hd e, ii a Ine le tte 

ha i. K a Ine +1 ti e, imi-kko wa ssho llahn jgwe 

(2916) ssho ha. ( ) N a sse jhamni lla ^au llnem ll^all^a. 
Ta, ha llkwa ssho I hah ssho. H a sse ^au llgaue 
loa lalti, n a sse ll^am jku^e ha; au ka-g Ine Ikua 
(2917) tta llho. 1ST a sse jku^e ha, ( ) au n enen. H a 
sse |ku^e ttssau, td, n a ttan, h a sse llkoin. 

H a ssah j;/u llnein. Ta, jkauka ssho Ikwenya. 
Ta, n lha llkuan ka Iketen hi au Ikhwd; au ha +1 
(2918) ti e, h a ttaiya ( ) Ilkde ttin llkoin, au llkoin ya tta 
if ; au h +i, ti e, Ikui ssah Ika kke jkauken. 


(2913 ? ) 


* I \kdblo explains that this e is equal to e a. 


IlKABBO'S INTENDED RETURN HOME. 


313 


It seemed as if it were about (?) to die; because 
it had been obliged to run about. Therefore, it 
went to lie down to die; because fatigue had killed 
it; while it had run ( ) about in the heat; for, (2913) 
(it) was the summer sun, which was hot. The 
ground was hot which was burning its feet. 

Therefore, I used to go to pick it up, as it lay 
dead. I laid it in ( ) the arrows' bag. I must, (2914) 
going along, look for another hare. It would 
spring up (running) into the sun; it would, being 
afraid, run through the sun, while I ran following 
it, I must, going along, wait, so that the sun 
might, burning, kill it. ( ) I would go to pick it (2915) 
up, when it lay dead. 1 would sitting, break its 
(four) legs, and then I should put it in. I thought 
that another hare would probably dwell opposite 
to it. ( ) I must first go to seek round in the (2916) 
neighbourhood of the form. For it seemed to be 
married. I must, seeking around, look for the 
female hare, that I might also chase it, when 
I had unloosened (and) laid down the bag. I must 
chase it, ( ) with my body. I must run very fast, (2917) 
feeling that I should become thirsty. 

I shall go to drink at home.* For the children 
will have probably fetched f water. F or, my wife 
(was) used to send them to the water, thinking that 
I had walked ( ) about in the sun when the sun was (2918) 
hot; because I thought that \kui% would kill the 


* Water which is in an ostrich eggshell. 

f In the ostrich eggshells, and probably also in a springbok's 
stomach. 

} Also called " gambro" ; a vegetable food eaten by Bushmen; 
which is injurious if used as the chief nourishment in winter, 
causing severe pain in the head and singing in the ears. 


(2917) 

(2917') 


314 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2919) 


(2920) 


(2921) 


(2922) 


(2923) 


(2924) 


jkhwa sse kkamOpua kkau, he e, h ssan Ine jgoa-i, 
au ka jgoa llgaue ttd'i a # ka jkuarajkuara, llk<5e 
hho l^ka; ( ) ha sse ddaukko ^wa^wa hho jkhwa. 
N a sse juhatten, jkai l^ka. hi a sse l^uorri ha, 
au l^ka llkale. N a sse jga llkoe ttin Iwka ; h ssm 
l^a llkde ttin l^ka. Ta, llgu-ka tt<5i ka jkuara- 
Ikuara lua sse ; ha sse ddaukko ( ) ywa^wa hho 

•oD o 3 7 3 V/ 

Ikhwa llkah. 

• D 

He ti hih e, h Iku ssm Ine jkajka ssho au 
Sohdag e, ii llna tif e hi, i. 116 h ll^all^a Iki 
a 1. N >*auki Ine Jkanna, h jka jkaujkarro-kko, 


ta, ha jkaujkarro, ha a, ha-g n ( ) ssm +kakka 
ha ha. H6 ti hm e, n ssm ka, ha Ine sse Ikwei 
Iki; ha Ine sse j^uohmya kke. Ta, h Iku-g Ine 
ssm jkajka ssho, au jkujku, e, h ssm jkujkii ki ttai 


hi ; li6 e, luemya, au j^arra. ( ) Ta, llkoin sse 

^ /VJ f Vf 

lla, Ilka llwi. He e, jkau Ine ddi kui tta II; au 
ka Iku jnaunkko lla, au kkamman. 1ST koa Iku-g 
Ine jkurruka lla, au jkauwa Ine tta II. Ta, j^arra- 
Opua yauld a. Td, j^arra jkerri e; ( ) ha j;/owa. 
N ssm Iku-g Ine lie h-ka j^oe, au Oh oka Iku-g Ine 
llkowa. Ta, ii Iku sse ttai, llko Ohoken Jkauitenttu, 
au ka jnaunkko jgaiioken Iki lla j^drra. 

H6 e, llhau sse arroko le ssi I; ( ) au ka Ine 
ssho, h-ka j^6e. Ta, h >auki sse ttai, j^oeten- 
j^oeten e Ibarra; ta, n ssm llna, h-ka j^oe; he 
h jkwlya h-ka Gauyau a, hi Ike; hah Ine deima 


(2918 J ) 


* The narrator explained that, ttoi d, here, means " an ostrich 
and its wife". Ttoi e would, he said, have meant " many 
ostriches 


(2920 J ) f — ti e a, hi t. 


IIkXbbo's intended return home. 315 

children for me. The rain must first fall, and then, 

I should he looking around, while I looked around, 
seeking for (a pair of) ostriches which are wont to 
seek the water along the "Har Bivier ", ( ) that (2919) 
they may, going along, drink the water. I must, 
going round in front, descend into the " Har Bivier 
I must (in a stooping position) steal up to them in the 
inside of the river bed. I must lie (on the front of 
my body) in the river bed ; that I might shoot, lying 
in the river bed. For, the western ostriches do, 
seeking water, come back ; that they may, going 
along, ( ) drink the new water. (2920) 

Therefore, I must sit waiting for the Sundays on 
which I remain here, on which I continue to teach 
thee. I do not again await another moon, for this 
moon is tfie one about which I ( ) told thee. There- (2921) 
fore, I desired that it should do thus, that it should 
return for me. For I have sat waiting for the boots, 
that I must put on to walk in ; which are strong for 
the road. ( ) For, the sun will go along, burning (2922) 
strongly. And then, the earth becomes hot, while 
I still am going along halfway. I must go together 
with the warm sun, while the ground is hot. For, 
a little road it is not. For, it is a great road; ( ) (2923) 
it is long. I should reach my place, when the trees 
are dry. For, I shall walk, letting the flowers become 
dry while I still follow the path. 

Then, autumn will quickly be (upon) us there ; * 

( ) when I am sitting at my (own) place. For, I (2924) 
shall not go to other places ; for, I must remain at 
my (own) place, the name of which I have told my 
Master ; he knows it ; he knows, (having) put it 


* When he is sitting at his own place. 


( 2923 ') 


316 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2925) hi; hail Ine *enh Ilkoa hi. e, ( ) h Ike *ka 
ssho hi. Hm e, n jkalka ssho hi, au tkabbu; h6 
e, ha sse Iketen ki lie +kabbu au n I ; au ha Iku 
Iketa +kabbii au korohi ; ba a, jku^e ti lla kke 
+kabbu, I. Au ha +1, ti e, n ^auki lurruwa ; ii 
enen ya ssin kkwe Ilkoa, ti e, n ssin llna ha, i; 
au ka tatti e, ii Ine l^a bhl n. Ta, kkoin a, ii 
(2926') llhinya a, au kkpm-ta ba, ( ) h£ n kkoin jkun jkoa 
jgei, 1 . 116 ti bin e, n ssin 1 1 nil Ini ba, ii ssin Ini 

*kabbu au ha-ha ; ii ssin III ha. N - ssin III n, l^a, 

Z f KJ T ^ u 

yaisse n, au ka tatti e, n ^auki Ine hbi, ii Ikagen- 
ka ba. Ta, ii lkii-g Ine hi ii jkbwai. 

Ta, +kabbii a ka jkoasse Inu^o, ban a*, i ta Ika 
whai e ttal llkde hh(5a ^ao, l-g Ine lla, ha llk<5e 
llna llna ) J ao. I-g Ine Ika'um ki llk(5e ttin into. 
Ha a luerriya, au jkliwe. Han Iki jka'uin |kui, au 
>ao llkaie. 


YIII.— 166. 

L. 

HOW iHAifcKASS'O'S PET LEVERET WAS 

HILLED. 

(Related, in July , 1878, by |han+kass'o, to explain how the story 
of " The Death of the jkhaii " was told him.) 

(7206') l^dbbi-ah-an Ine Ikha ke loa-Opua, be, ii a Ine 
ssa, jkann Ikarii ba, au ka ka hi kwan llgaue loa-ka 
jkauken; ta, hi e Ikha ka loa-Opua. H^, ha Ine 


HOW lHAN+KASS'o's PET LEVEKET WAS KILLED. 317 


down. And thus ( ) my name is plain (beside) it. (2925) 
It is there that I sit waiting for the gun ; and then, 
he will send the gun to me there ; while he sends 
the gun in a cart ; that which running, takes me the 
gun. While he thinks, that I have not forgotten ; that 
my body may be quiet, as it was when I was with 
him ; while I feel that I shoot, feeding myself. For, 
starvation was that on account of which I was bound, — 
starvation's food, — ( ) when I starving turned back (2926') 
from following the sheep. Therefore, I lived with 
him, that I might get a gun from him ; that I might 
possess it. That I might myself shoot, feeding 
myself, while I do not eat my companions' food. 

For, I eat my (own) game. 

For, a gun is that which takes care of an old man ; 
it is that with which we kill the springbok which 
go through the cold (wind) ; we go to eat, in the cold 
(wind). We do, satisfied with food, lie down (in 
our huts) in the cold (wind). It (the gun) is strong 
against the wind. It satisfies a man with food in 
the very middle of the cold. 


VIII.— 166. 

L. 

HOW lHAi+KASS'O'S PET LEVEEET WAS 
KILLED. 

I yabbi-ah* killed (my) leveret for me, and I came (7206') 
crying to her, because I wanted them f therefore to 
seek for (other) leverets ; for they were those who 
had killed (my) leveret for me. And she soothed 

* The narrator's mother. 

f i.e. his mother and his maternal grandmother 


318 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ddatten h, i. H6 tiken e, ha Ine tkdkka ke, ti e, 
Ikhaii ha oa ka : 

• „ ^ d 

(7207') ( ) " Ta, 

N kwan tan kan lla, 

f 

jk'au Ihin, 
jguru-lna-ka Ikad. 

"Ta, 

hT kwah tan kan lla, 

rsj f 

jk'au Ihin, 
l^e-jkhwai-ta jkad." 

(7208') ( ) Tsatsiten a, kan Ike-a Ikarama Ioa-Opua, au 

jkou^u ; he, ha Ine Iki ssa ha, au hah jkauwa, 
hah Ine ssan akke ha. He, n Ine llgwiten a; h Ine 
jhojho ha, hah Ine jkii^e ; n Ine ll^amki jku^e 
ha. He, h a Ine lla, lke-i ha, he, n a Ine ssa jho 

(7209') ha. Ha Ine ll^a, ha jku^e; he, n a Ine ( ) ll^a, 

n a jku^e, lke-i ha ; he, n a Ine lla lke-i ha, h 
a Ine ssa jho ha. Ha Ine ll^a, ha Ikii^e; he, h a 
Ine ll^a, h a jku^e ha. He, n a Ine ll^a, h a 

lke-i ha; he, n a Ine ll^a, h a lke-i ha; he h a Ine 

ssa jho ha. 

l^ahhi-ah-an ka, h ^ii ii loa-Opua-ka llgwiten, 
(7210') n ( ) Ikha ha, n Ilka te ha. 1ST ^auki ta, h Ikha 
Ioa-Opua. Hah ka, n ^u ii loa-Opua-ka llgwiten, 
n Ikha ha, h ssin Ilka te ha. H ^aiiki ta h Ikha 
Ioa-Opua; au h tatti e, ha ^auki ) J wa twaiten Ilka 
ha, au ha tt'oitt'o'i, tt'ditt'oi lla. Hah Iku I >*ua, 
au ha tt'oitt'o'i lla, hah >iiuki )hva ttwaiten Ilka ha ; 

3 D ' of 

he ha Ine lla ssuen. 

o 


HOW iHAN+KASS'o's PET LEVERET WAS KILLED. 319 

me, about it. Therefore, she told me that the lizard 
had formerly said : 

( ) "For, (7207') 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 
guruAna's pass. 

££ For, 

I therefore intend to go, 

Passing through, 

\%eA JchwaVs pass." 

( ) Tsatsi % was the one who caught hold of (and) (7208') 
took up a leveret on the hunting-ground; and, he 
brought it (home) alive, he came (and) gave it to me. 

And I played with it ; I set it down, it ran ; I also 

ran after it. And I went to catch it, and, I came to 

set it down. It again ran; and I ( ) again ran to (7209') 

catch it ; and I went catching hold of it, I came to set 

it down. Again, it ran ; and, I again ran after it. 

And I again caught hold of it; and again, I caught 
hold of it ; and I came to set it down. 

I yabbi-an wished that I (should) leave off playing 
with the leveret, that I ( ) (should) kill it, that 1(7210') 
(should) lay it to roast. I was not willing to kill the 
leveret. She wished me to leave off playing with 
the leveret, that I (should) kill it, that I might lay it 
to roast. I was not willing to kill the leveret, because 
I felt that nothing acted as prettily as it did, when 
it was gently running, gently running along. It did 
in this manner (showing the motion of its ears), while 
it was gently running along, nothing acted as prettily 
as it did ; and it went to sit down. 


* The narrator's maternal grandfather. 


320 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


9 9 9 

(7211') ( ) H6 ti hin e, hi Ine kui, h Ikuen, ta, h a ka 

aiitau Ihih an jkhoa, au h yauki lid llgwiten llkhde 
llnallna Ikhoa. H6 tiken e, h Ine Ikuen, i ; au n 
llhiii Iho loa-Opua. He, h Ine Ikuen; he tiken e, 
hin Ine Ikha ke loa-Opua, au kaken llna Ikhoa. 

(7212') ( ) Hin Ine Ikha ke loa-Opua; h6 e, n Ine ssan 

ywa, l ; au h Ikii ka, hi kkweya ke loa-Opua. 
Ta, hi y6 a ddda ddatten n ; hin kui, n Ikuen, au 
(7213') hin yda ka, hi ssi Ine Ikha ke loa-Opua, a n ( ) 
ddoa ssin Iku ka, n ssin Iku kkweya ha, au ha 
kkwe, jkauwa. Hin Iku ikha ke ha. H6 taken e, 

^ ^ 9 % 

n Ine ssan ) J wa, i. Hin In6 ta, i Ta'uki ta ll^a 

i Ini loa-Opua-kko ; au n In6 ta, hi llgaueya ke 
(7214') loa-ka jkauken, ( ) hin Ine ta, i yaiiki ta ll^a, i Ini 


loa-Opua-kko. 

H6 ti hin e, hi Ine ddatten Ike te lla n, au 
jkhatl ; au hin ta, n ssin kkwe, ttumma Ikilki 
hi, au ka Ikam 6a n ttu, n ssin kkwe, ttumma 


Ikilki hi.* 


YIII.— 176. 

L. 


THE THUNDERSTORM. 

(Related, in December , 1875, in the Katkop dialect , by Dialkw§in.) 

(5623) N kail llnau, jkhwa kkauwa ssi o llga, h llnau, 
o jkhwa kkali, h tten ko llha, llkellke llkunn. He 


(7214) 


9 \ 

* Hau ka, h ^auki sse llgwiten au a; ta, i yauki ta llgwiten 
au a ; ta, i ta ||ka tte a. Ta, |oa-Opua yauki ta ttamOpua 
llkuwa ; lie ti hin e, i ta Ikha ha, i Ilka tte ya, au i yauki 
llgwiten a. 


THE THUNDERSTORM. 


321 


( ) Then they told me to fetch water; for I was (721 P) 
one who quickly came away from the water, while 
I did not go to play at the water. Therefore, I went 
to fetch water, when I had tied up the leveret. And 
I went to fetch water ; then, they killed (my) leveret 
for me, while I was at the water. ( ) They killed (7212') 
(my) leveret for me ; and then I came (and) cried, 
about it ; because I had thought that they would let 
(my) leveret alone. For, they must have been de- 
ceiving me ; they told me to fetch water, while they 
must have intended that they would kill (my) leveret 
for me, which I ( ) had meant to let alone, so that (7213') 
it might live (on) in peace. They had killed it for 
me. Therefore, I came (and) cried, on account of it. 

They said, that we should not again get another 
leveret; when I wanted them to seek some leverets 
for me, ( ) they said, we should not again get (7214') 
another leveret. 

Therefore, they soothing calmed (?) me with the 
(story of the) lizard ; while they wished that I might 
quietly listen to them ; when I had shut my mouth, 

I might quietly listen to them.* 


VIII.— 175. 


L. 


THE THUNDERSTORM. 

When the rain fell upon us at night, I did thus, (5623) 
while the rain fell, I lay, playing the " goura ",f like 

* She (my mother) said (to me), that I should not play with (7214) 
meat ; for we do not play with meat ; for we lay meat to roast. 

For the leveret is not a little fat ; therefore, we kill it, we lay 
it to roast, while we do not play with it. 

f A description of this musical instrument will be found on 
p. 109 of " The Native Races of South Africa", by the late 
Mr. Gr. W. Stow (London, 1905), and a picture of it in the 
preceding plate (fig. 8). 


Y 


322 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5625) mama ku-kkui-ten l^keya ke, ( ) ii I no ^au llwkoen, 
ti e, Ikhwa Ikuei ybken bbalten-i, I; he n llkellke 
llkuhh; n Ino ^au +eh-na, ti e, llkunn e jkui a ka 
(5626) llnau, jk'b ya Ykwalya ha, hah ka llnau, ( ) ha 
jywainya jk'e, ha-g Ine l^keya jk'e a, ti e, jk'e 
llkhba kan +1, jkhwa ka ha sse kkau ; ta jkhwa 
ka Ikhwa sse aiYnn Ikhe, 6 Ikhwa Ya'uki kkau. 
(5627) jkhwagen ka ( ) jkei llou, jkhwa jkhe; o llkuhh a 


l^keya, ti e, jkhwa Ya'uki sse kkau. 

N llnau, mama l^ke h, h ^auki ttui mama, ta, 
n Ikil tten kb llha, llkellke llkuhh. He mama 
(5628) +gou, I ; ( ) b mamaii ll^koen ti e, h Ya'uki 
Ywah n ttui mama. He mama Iku tta, i; n Iku 
tten kb llha. 

He jkhwa Iku llnau, o n tten ko llha, jkhwagen 
(5720) amm Ywan, jkhwa le ssi tsa^aiten. ( ) He 
jkhwa IlnaH, ssiten kan +i, jkhwa ka jkhwa bbaiten, 
he ti Iku ddi kui ttan-ttan jkhwa jkann jhan ssi 
(5721) tsa^aiten, o ( ) ka le ssi tsa^aiten e; ssiten 
ttah ssi tchunhtchunh jkhe, o ssiten tta, ti e, ti 
Iku ddi k iii ta llga, a jkami jhaii ssi tsa^aiten. He 
(5722) jkhwa ( ) llnau, o ssi Yauki jkannjkan'n Ihin, ssi 
tsa^aiten, jkhwagen a ssi tchuen e, ssi tsa^aiten 

f t 9 

Ikil ddi kui ttan, he Ikamya, i; he jkhwa bbaiten, 
(5723) i, o ssi tsa^aityan ttan he ( ) Ikamya. 

He jkhwa bbaiten Iki jkhai Ihin lla, * b ssi ; he 
jkhwa llnau jkau a juhi jkhe ssi Ilnem jkha, jkhwa 
bbaiten Iki ha, i. 

(5724) He mama kkui: ( ) "1ST h h h h!"* He tata 
(5724 ') * An exclamation of suffering or pain. 


THE THUNDERSTORM. 


323 


II kurm. % And mamma said to me, ( ) did I not see (5625) 
how the rain was lightening ; that I did like II Jcunh ; 
did I not know that II kurin was a person who used, 
if people scolded him, he used, ( ) (when) he was (5626) 
angry with the people, to say to the people, about it, 
that the people seemed to think that the rain would 
fall ; but (on the contrary) the rain would stand 
still, while the rain did not fall. The rain used ( )(5627) 
really to stop ; when II kunn had said that the rain 
would not fall. 

When mamma rebuked me, I did not listen to her, 
for, I lay, playing the " goura ", like II /turn. And 
mamma became silent ; ( ) when she saw that I did (5628) 
not seem as if I heard her. And mamma lay down ; 

I lay, playing the " goura ". 

And the rain did thus, as I lay, playing the 
" goura ", the rain first seemed to shine into our eyes. 

( ) And the rain did thus, (when) we were thinking (5720) 
that it was going to lighten and it seemed as if the 
rain were closing our eyes, when it was the light ( ) (5721 ) 
that entered our eyes ; we stood shutting our eyes, 
while we felt as if darkness kept our eyes closed. 

And ( ) when we had not (yet) opened our eyes, the (5722) 
rain gave us things on account of which our eyes 
seemed as if they were green ; and the rain lightened, 
while our eyes felt ( ) green. (5723) 

And the rain, lightening, went over us; and the 
rain did as follows to a stone which stood outside, 
in front of our hut, the rain, lightening, shivered it. 

And mamma exclaimed: ( ) "JSTnnnn!" And (5724) 
father questioned mamma, as to what was the matter 

* Wkunh or "Coos Groot-Oog" was a rain sorcerer, who lived 
at ! khai \ku (also called " Evvicass Pits", on account of a tree 
which stands by the Pits). 


324 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLOBE. 


ttuttu mama o ti e, ts'a-dde Ino a ddi ya; jkhwa-ka 
hho'uitenhhouiten Ino Ina ha, he ha lilin ? He 
(5725) mama l^keya tata a, ti e, ( ) ti ttan, jkhwa jkan'n 
tt^erri ho ha ttu ; he tiken e, ha lilin, I. He 
mama ku-kkuiten l^ke, ssi llkuan ka, ssi sse Ikuken 
(5726) ttin; ssi-ka ddiddi e, ( ) ssi ^auki ka ssi kwah 
Ihumm ha, o ha l^keya ssi, o kkumm-Opua a +anni. 
Ssiten llkuan ka, ssi sse-g Ine llwkoen, o ssi >*auki 
ddda yw an ssi ttui, o ha Iwkeya ssi. 

(5727) ( ) llkuan llnau, o mama Iwke n, n ttu 

llha, llkellke llkunh, n llkuan ^auki ka h ttu ; h 
llkuan a llwkoen, ti e, Ikhwa llkuan a, ka ha Ikha 

03 ^ 7 — oD / 

ssi, o ii-ka ddiddi. 


THE THUNDERSTORM. 


325 


with her; had the rush of the storm * reached her, 
that she exclaimed as if in pain ? And mamma told 
father about it, that ( ) the thing seemed as if the (5725) 
rain were tearing off her skin ; therefore, she had 
exclaimed with pain. And mamma said that we had 
wished to fall dead ; it was our fault that ( ) we (5726) 
had not been willing to obey her when she rebuked 
us about a very little thing. We had wanted to see 
(what would happen) when we did not appear to hear 
when she rebuked us. 

( ) I had acted thus, when mamma told me to (5727) 
leave off playing the " goura ", — like \\/cum, — I 
would not listen ; I was the one who saw that the 
rain had intended to kill us, on account of my doings. 


* The narrator compares this to the wind from a cannon ball. 


(5724') 




A BUSHMAN WOMAN WITH DIGGING-STICK. 


Photographed at Salt River in 1884. 


' 








. 













































' 























IX. Customs and Superstitions . 


328 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 97. 

B. 

CUTTING OFF THE TOP OF THE LITTLE 
FINGEE, AND PIEECING EAE8 AND 
NOSE. 


( Given in July, 1871.) 

(357) jkwa gwai-Opuaken a Ikauwa ha l^ka e a. Ikwa 
laitiken a Ikauwa ha Iwka e a, au han tatti e, ha e 
latti-Opua, he ti hih e, ha Ikauwa ha llkun laiti-ka 
ha Iwka, i ; au han tatti e, ha l^ka lalti e a. 

(358) jkwa gwai-Opuaken tatti e, ( ) ha e jkwa gwai- 
Opua, he ti hih e, ha Ikauwa ha Iwka e a, ha 
llkun gwal, ta hi lwka # au ha l^ka. Ikwa gwai- 
koken, yauki Ikauwa ha l^ka ; Ikwa lalti-kowaken 
yauki Ikauwa ha Iwka. 

(359) ( ) He ti hih e, jkwa gwal Ikauwa ha llkun e a, 
hi ka ha l^ka f i ; he ti hih e, han Ine kokha au 
ha lwka ? au hah Ine jkan-na Inwa, han Ine kokoa 


au ha Iwka e a, au hah Ine jkan-na lhau. 

(360) ( ) jkui gwai-koken llkeinya ha jnuntu e a; hah 

ll^am llkemya ha jnuntu e a. jkui laiti-k<5ken 
/ t 
llkemya ha jnuntu e a, au han tatti e, ha llkun 

(361) laiti e a; ha ll^am llkeinya ha jnuntu e a, ( ) au 
han tatti e, ha llkun gwai e a ; ha ll^am llkeinya 
ha Inunu. 

jkui laiti-koken yauki llkeinya ha Iniinii ; au han 
tatti 6 jkui laiti-ko j^ohi; jkui laiti-koken a llkeinya 
ha Inunii, ha aki. 


* This word should probably have been written \x& here, 
f Probably \x&. 


CUTTING OFF TOP OF LITTLE FINGEE, ETC. 329 


IX.— 97. 

B. 

CUTTING OFF THE TOP OF THE LITTLE 
FINGER, AND PIERCING EARS AND 
NOSE. 

A little boy has this hand cut.* A female child (357) 
has this hand cut,f because she is a little girl, 
therefore, she has the hand of her female arm cut ; 
because this is her female hand. The little boy feels 
that ( ) he is a little boy, therefore, he has this hand (358) 
cut, his male arm, for, they shoot with this hand. 
Another boy does not have his hand cut ; another 
girl does not have her hand cut. 

( ) Thus, the boy has this arm cut, with which (359) 
they intend him to shoot; therefore, he turns this 
(the right) hand, when he grasps the arrow, he turns 
this (the left) hand, when he grasps the bow. 

( ) Another man has this (the right) ear pierced ; (360) 
he also has that (the left) ear pierced. Another 
woman has this (the left) ear pierced, because she 
feels that her female arm is here (i.e. on this side) ; 
she also has this (the right) ear pierced, ( ) because (361) 
she feels that her male arm is here ; she also has her 
nose pierced. 

Another woman does not have her nose pierced, 
because the other woman is ugly ; the other woman 
who has had her nose pierced, is handsome. 

* Showing the top joint of the little finger of the right hand. (357 J ) 

f Showing the top joint of the little finger of the left hand. 


330 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 177. 

L. 

CUTTING OFF THE TOP OF THE LITTLE 

FINGER. 

Second Account. 

( Information given , in March , 1884, by l^aken-an.) 

(10404) Ha (5a Iwkwaiyau, a Ikau Ikam ha Opua^ai, 
Kaueten-an Ihdna. 

° • D 

N Ihan a. Ikau Ikam Ikabbe-tu # l^ka. 

/ o • 


IX.— 99. 

2 ?. 

BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. 

( Given in February and March , 1873.) 

(2531) l^am-ka-lke-ta jgwe, e leleta hi en-en. Hih 
Ikakken, hm dddrraken, hin Iki ssi dddrraken- 
ddarraken hi en-en. Hih II vu hi ; Ikuiten Iku 

(2532) llkoaken kkwe, au hah tatti e, ( ) ha en-eh 
ddarraken. Ilkabbowaken a llkhwaiya, ha a, I k err u ; 
l^kammman a jkei llau; ha a, l^am-ka-jkui ta Ini 

(10403) * j Mbbe-tti, or "Willem Streep", was a son of the informant, 

I xdken-ah, an old Bushman woman who was with us for a short 
time in 1884. 


(10404') * I xahen-ah further explained that the joint is cut off with reed. 

It is thought to make children live to grow up. It is done before 
they suck at all. 

f The above piece of Bushman native literature is described by 
Dr. Bleek as follows : " 99. Bushman Presentiments. — They feel in 
their bodies that certain events are going to happen. There is 
a kind of heating of the flesh, which tells them things. Those 
who are stupid, do not understand these teachings ; they disobey 
them, and get into trouble, — such as being killed by a lion, etc. — 


BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. 


331 


IX.— 177. 

L. 

CUTTING OFF THE TOP OF THE LITTLE 

FINGEE. 

Second Account. 

Her father, I Vkwaiyau, was the one who cut off (10404) 
the upper joint of his daughter Kaueten-an's little 
finger. # 

My husband was the one who cut off (the upper 
joint of) [kabbe-tu's (" Willem Streep's ") finger. 


IX.— 99. 

B. 

BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. f 

The Bushmen's letters $ are in their bodies. They (2531) 
(the letters) speak, they move, they make their 
(the Bushmen's) bodies move. They (the Bushmen) 
order the others to be silent ; a man is altogether 
still, when he feels that ( ) his body is tapping (2532) 
(inside). A dream speaks falsely, it is (a thing) 
which deceives. The presentiment is that which 
speaks the truth ; it is that by means of which the 
Bushman gets (or perceives) meat, when it has tapped. 

The beatings tell those who understand them, which way they are 
not to go, and which arrow they had better not use, and also warn 
them, when many people are coming to the house on a wagon. 

They inform people where they can find the person of whom they 
are in search, i.e., which way they must go to seek him successfully." 

(" A Brief Account of Bushman Folk-lore and other Texts." By 
W. H. I. Bleek, Ph.D. Cape Town, 1875. pp. 17 and 18.) 

f The word \gwe was used hv the Bushmen to denote both 
letters and hooks. II kdhbo explained that the beatings in their 
bodies, here described, are the Bushman's " letters ", and resemble 
the letters which take a message or an account of what happens in 
another place. 


332 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(2533) 


(2534) 


(2535) 

(2536) 


(2537) 

(2538) 

(2532') 

(2537') 


a a * ; au ha f a dddrraka. I^am-ka-jketen Ini In!, 
Iki ssa Ik'e, au ha-ha. ( ) l^am-kadketen likamma, 
llu ssa Ike-kuiten. 

* O O 

l^arn-ka>!kmten llnau ttwi ttss'<5ro-ken, han Iwkamm 
ttwi Ikhwaiten, au l^kairmiinan tatti e, Ikui ttdi 
ssi ddarrakenddarraken ha eh-eh. Ikukogen Ine 
l^kamm ( ) jkuko, a ssa; han kkakka Ikauken: 
" jgoa llgaue yyii jkoin, ta, jkoin tta ssa ; hin e, 
n l^kannn, ha en-en-ka ttwi ttss'dro-ken Ikhwaiten." 
jkaukaken jgoa-i ; jkaukaken Ini, jkuiten ssa. Hih 
( ) +kakka ha oa : " Ikui ttah Ike ssa." Ha <5aken 
kkakka hi: " Ikoin ttah Ike ssa; ha ha ssin sse 
sse h-h ; ha a, h ssih Iwkainma Iki ssa ha-ha ; au 
ha-ha-ka ttwi ttss'(5ro-ken Ikhwaiten. H ( ) llkuah 
ka, u sse-g Ine ll^koen; au ha llkuah jkei llau, hah 

AJ si f 

Ine Ike ssa. Ta, u ka tnwai, h-ka Iwkainm ; he ka 
Iku jkei llau." 

Han Iwkamm ha Ikaulkau ; han tkakka Ikauken : 

O • • / • o 

t V» ^ 

( ) u Whai kkan tta ssa, ta n Iwkamm Chatham. 

t « w « 

llkai tteu Ikao J Ike lkhe, u sse jgoa-a, tikentiken-ka- 
ku. Ta, n Iwkamm, whai-ta l^kamni." Ikhkoken 
jhumm ha : " H kkan ka, jkauken i ; ta, ( ) whai 

* a = au ha-ha. 

f ha = ha-ha. 

J The Brinkkop has two names, II xau and \1cad , the narrator 
says. But, there appear to be two mountains, a round-topped 
one, and a high one. 


BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. 


333 


The Bushmen perceive people coming by means of it. 

( ) The Bushmen feel a tapping (when) other people (2533) 
are * coming. 

With regard to an old wound, a Bushman feels 
a tapping at the wound's place, while the tapping 
feels that the man (who has the old wound) walks, 
moving his body. The one man feels ( ) the other (2534) 
man who comes ; he says to the children : " Look ye 
around, for grandfather, for grandfather seems to be 
coming ; this is why I feel the place of his body's 
old wound." The children look around ; the children 
perceive the man coming. They ( ) say to their (2535) 
father : u A man is coming yonder." Their father 
says to them: " Grandfather (his own father) comes 
yonder ; he would come to me ; he was the one whose 
coming I felt at the place of his old wound. I ( ) (2536) 
wanted you to see that he is really coming. For 
ye contradict my presentiment, which speaks truly." 

He feels a tapping (at) his ribs ; he says to the 
children: ( ) " The springbok seem to be coming, (2537) 
for I feel the black hair (on the sides of the spring- 
bok). Climb ye the Brinkkop standing yonder, that 
ye may look around at all the places. For I feel the 
springbok sensation." The other man agrees with 
him : " I think (that) the children (should) do so ; 

* The Bushman, when an ostrich is coming and is scratching (2533') 
the hack of its neck with its foot, feels the tapping in the lower 
part of the back of his own neck; at the same place where the 
ostrich is scratching. 

The springbok, when coming, scratches itself with its horns, and 
with its foot ; then the Bushman feels the tapping. 

( ) When a woman who had gone away is returning to the (2534') 
house, the man who is sitting there, feels on his shoulders the 
thong with which the woman's child is slung over her shoulders ; 
he feels the sensation there. 


334 


' •? ' 

SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

ka jkiirruka ssa ; t£, ll^au Ike jkhe, ha llkuah 
j^owa ; hi sse ll^koen Igappem llko Ik'au. lie e, 

r r'w ^ 

hi ssm ll^koen Ik'au-ka-ku, 1. Hi ssm kkwah 
(2539) ! I wkocn llnattenllnatten ( ) ©hdken llkallkattend.de # ; 
ta, whai ta ttai damma llkdeta ©hoken llkallkattendde. 
Ta, ©hdka l^kwaiya. I kuirri I kuirriten lizard llna. 
(2540) Hd e, whai ta ssa, ha le ttm hi. Ta, ( ) jkuirri- 
jkuirn llkuah kkdrruwa. Ta, h ka Ikuei tta, h 
a Iwkamm n Ikuelkueeten ; au ll^auka sse ddern 
hi. Ta, h Ike ta l^kamin ll^auken; au ka sse Ika 
(2541) whai. Ta, h ssho ko ( ) I ^kam m I ^kamm llnuntte 
au h ttss'in^u, hd ll^auken ka ddern hi; au ka 
juhaiya whai. Whai Iku Ine llnullnu ttm n ttss'i- 
jkukoken jhunim ha : u 1 n llka."| 

# # % % 

(2554) He ti hm e, i ka ( ) jkejke, l ; au I^kanim-ma 

^ ^ f t r 

Ikueita, au i l^kamma Iki ssa tchuen, au tchuehya 
Ine tt|i Iko ssa, an llneih. I-g Ine l^kamin, i jnwa- 
(2555) !nwa, au i l^kainm whai jnwa l^orroken; ( ) 
hd whaiya ttai ssi l^drrokenl^drroken ©hoken, i. 
I Ikuei ta, i Iwkaimn T Ina ; au i sse ll^kau whai 
llkdillkdi. I l^kanim i ^u, au whai Ikittu-ka Ihoaken- 
(2556) Ihoaken ; i l^karnm i ( ) tsa^aiten, au whai 
tsa^aiten-ta luelue. Ttoiten a, f ta l^karnm Jkam'm ; 

(2539 J ) * Whole "inside", \\ha\\hattendd l e "insides". 

f As Section IX is a long one, about twelve pages of the 
original MS. have been omitted here. They refer chiefly to 
tactics in hunting, and habits of the animals hunted. 


BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. 


335 


for ( ) the springbok come in the sun ; for the Brink- (2538) 
kop standing yonder is high; they shall look down 
upon the ground. And then they can see the whole 
ground. They can therefore (?) look inside ( ) the (2539) 
trees ; for the springbok are wont to go hidden inside 
the trees. Bor the trees are numerous. The little 
river beds are also there. They are those to which the 
springbok are wont to come (in order) to eat in them. 

For, ( ) the little river beds have become green.* (2540) 
For I am wont to feel thus, I feel a sensation in the 
calves of my legs when the springbok's blood is going 
to run down them. For I always feel blood, when 
I am about to kill springbok. For I sit ( ) feeling (2541) 
a sensation behind my back, which the blood is wont 
to run down, when I am carrying a springbok. The 
springbok hair lies behind my back." The other 
agrees with him (saying) : " Yes, my brother." 


* # * # # 


Therefore, we are wont ( ) to wait (quietly) ; when (2554) 
the sensation is like this, when we are feeling the 
things come, while the things come near the house. 

We have a sensation in our feet, as we feel the 
rustling of the feet of the springbok with which the 
( ) springbok come, making the bushes rustle. We (2555) 
feel in this manner, we have a sensation in our heads, 
when we are about to chop the springbok's horns. 

We have a sensation in our face, on account of the 
blackness of the stripe on the face of the springbok ; f 
we feel a sensation in our ( ) eyes, on account of the (2556) 
black marks on the eyes of the springbok. The 
ostrich is one, for whom we feel the sensation of 


* i.e ., the grass and the little bushes of the river bed. (2540') 

f A black stripe that comes down in the centre of the forehead, (2555') 
and terminates at the end of the nose. 


336 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


au ha ttai ttau Ikuaiiten jkamm ; au llgu wa e; aYi 
ll^kom ya Ikueita ; ha tta li. 

(2557) H4 ti hm e, ( ) tchuen ka Ine bbin 1 1. Hi Iku-g 
Ine ttai jgwe hho lie llnem. 11(3 ti hm e, 1 ka-g 
Ine Ikagen kkau Ikau tchuen Inwa ; au i-g Ine 
(2558) jkagen kkau Jhanh II a. Ta, tchuen e, ( ) hi 
l^kwalya, hi Ike ka kkaihOpua ttai ssa ; au l'-g 
Ine llgaua llnem-ta jk'|nn * ; au hi +1, ti e, I ssho 
Opuoin tten-a au llkuonna-ka Opuoin. Au I Jkei 
(2559) llau, I ( ) Opuoin tten-a, au llkuonna-ka Opuoin. 
lie ti hln e, I ^aukl ta OpuomOpuom ttln au 
llkuohna ; au I Ikueitta, I Ib'kamm. Ta, I Ike ta-g 
(2560) ine l^kamm, au tchuenya Ine ttai ; au ( ) I-g Ine 
iwkamma Ikl ssa tchuen ; au tchuenya ttai ssl 
dddrrakenddarraken hi Ikwajkwagen. I-g Ine 
Iwkamm I llkallkattu; he ll^auken ka ttss'amm-a 
(2561) hi; au I-g Ine Ikammam 1 1 a. ( ) lie ti hm e, 
I Ine Iwkamhi, 1. 

f ft 

He ti hln e, jkauken-OpuohnI yauki tta llgaua- 

o t ^ / w 

llgaua I eta llnem, i ; hi Iku kkah, llgaua I Ikau 
(2562) ssho ; hi sse jkwan i ; au hi Ina tchuen, ( ) au 
tchuenya ttaiya hhe ti. Hi sse jkwan mmiimmu 
i ; ta, I Ik4 ta, ssuenssuen ti kkah, ll^koeh Iki hi ; 
au hi kkah I Ikau ssho. H4 ti hln e, I ta-g Ine 
(2563) Ikakka I ( ) Ikagen, ti e, jkauka llkoa Ina tchuen. 
Hln e, hi Ine jkwan. Hi Ine line hhe ti f ; au hi 
line, ti e, tchuenya ttai jkei tta hi; au Ikaoken- 
(2564) Ikaoka Ikuei-u, hi llkallkam-ma. ( ) I sse arroko 

(2558') * llnem llkaie-ta jk'|nn, "the shade of the inside of the hut." 

(2563 J ) f Ti e jkwai, he ti, "one place, this place," the narrator 
explains. 


BUSHMAN PRESENTIMENTS. 


337 


a louse ; % as it walks, scratching the louse ; when it 
is spring, t when the sun feels thus, it is warm. 

Then it is that ( ) the things go from us. They (2557) 
go along, passing opposite to the hut. Therefore, 
we early cross the things 5 spoor, when we early go 
to hunt. For, the things which ( ) are numerous (2558) 
are used to come first, when we are lying in the 
shade of the hut; because they think that we are 
probably lying asleep in the noonday's sleep. For 
we really ( ) lie down to sleep the noonday's sleep. (2559) 
But we do not lie sleeping at noon, when we feel this 
sensation. For we are used to feel like this when 
the things are walking ; when ( ) we have felt the (2560) 
things coming, as they walk, moving their legs. We 
feel a sensation in the hollows under our knees, upon 
which blood drops, as we go along, carrying (the 
game). ( ) Therefore, we feel this sensation there. (2561) 

Therefore, the little boys do not lie in the shade 
inside the hut ; they lie in the shade above yonder, 
so that they may beckon to us, when they have 
perceived the things, ( ) when the things walk at (2562) 
that place. They will beckon, making us see ; for 
we are wont, sitting at a distance, to watch them, 
as they sit above yonder. Therefore, we say to each 
( ) other, that the children appear to have seen (2563) 
things. For, they beckon. They point to that place, 
while they point to the place towards (?) which the 
things are walking, where the Brinkkop mountains 
lie thus spread out (?). ( ) So we may quickly chase (2564 ) 

* An insect which bites the ostrich, a black insect; an " ostrich (2556' 
louse " as the Bushmen describe it. 

f II Jcahbo explains that || gu means " de bloem tijd ". 

z 


338 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


bbai tchuen, au Ikab a, ha llkam tta ; ha tchuenya 
ttaiya ha. Tchuenya ttai juhi-tta, tchuen a hS # ; 
f sse arroko llnuh hho ha ; au ha jnaunko tten 
(2565) Ihinya. I sse jkhe akken au ( ) tchuen, i sse Tauki 
l^uoni ja Ikhe tchuen ; i sse l^uorri luhf jkhe 
tchuen, ti e, j^we-lna ha ttai jkS Ikhe hi. 


IX.— 104. 

B. 

DOIXGS AXD PRAYEES WHEN CANOPUS f 
AND SIRIUS COME OUT. 


( Given in October, 1873.) 


(3348) 

(3349) 


l^am-kS-jk^ten Ini Ikudtten- jkougen, hin +kdkka 
jkhwa : " Indkkl Oho Ike; ( ) h jkwe jho ha, n Ilka 


(3350) 

(3351) 

(2564') 


jkditte, ta, jkO'itte Ikammenya ll^e ; jkh'itte ssan 
Ikarraka hi ; ta, ha ka >aowa Ihih ssa ; llko'ih sse 
IlkakdJ llkha hi jkd'itte tsa^au." 

f 

jkuttoken Ihih ssa; jk6ten ( ) l^keya hi Ikagen: 
" jkuttau kan Ike ssa ; 55 hin +kdkka hi Ikagen: 
" U kk^a sse Ilka hi jkuttau. 55 Hin Ikakka hi 
Ikagen: u jku ddi a Ina jkuttau? 55 jkukoken 
Ikdkka jkukko : U 1 ( ) Ilka ka-g Ina jkuttau. 55 

% a ha = au ha-ha. 

f Four names given by the Bushmen for Canopus are as follows: 

! knsse; \Tcuatten-Ykougen ; W^jhodggu ; 1 1 xe-td-\7cutitten- j kougen. 

J It is possible that II kaka should have been written 
WTc&Wkh, here. 


DOINGS AND PRAYERS TO CERTAIN STARS. 389 


the things at the hill which lies across, to which the 
things are walking. The things walk, putting them- 
selves in front of it; * we will quickly pass behind 
it, while it still lies away (from the springbok). We 
will stand nicely (ready) for ( ) the things, that we (2565) 
may not steal up abreast f of the things, (but) that 
we may steal up in front of the things, at the place f 
to which the leader goes. 


IX. —104. 


DOINGS AND PEAYEES WHEN CANOPUS 
AND SIEIUS COME OUT. 

The Bushmen perceive Canopus, they say to a (3348) 
child: "Give me yonder piece of wood, ( ) that (3349) 
I may put (the end of) it (in the fire), that I may 
point (it) burning (towards) grandmother, for, grand- 
mother carries Bushman rice ; grandmother shall 
make a little warmth for us ; for she coldly comes 
out; the sun § shall warm grandmother's eye for us." 

Sirius comes out; the people ( ) call out to one (3350) 
another : " Sirius comes yonder ; " they say to one 
another : "Ye must burn (a stick) for us (towards) 
Sirius." They say to one another: "Who was it 
who saw Sirius? " One man says to the other: " Our 
( ) brother saw Sirius." The other man says to him : (3351) 


* That is, putting their faces towards the mountain. (2564') 

f That is, not at the side of the game as it goes along, but right (2565 ? ) 
in front of its path. 

X The Bushmen are at the back of the hill, waiting for the 
springbok to cross it, coming to the place where they (the Bush- 
men) are. 

§ The sun is a little warm, when this star appears in winter. (3349 ? ) 


340 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Jkukoken dkakka ha : 16 1ST ka Ina Jkuttau." 

Ikiikoken +kakka ha: u ST kail ka, a sse Ilka hi 

• o / 

v — / rvj 

Jkiittau ; llkoin sse Ikailkai lha hi ; Jkuttau sse 
(3352) ^auki ( ) Ihm sse." Jkukoken Tkakka ha 

©puon: " 116 ssa kki Oho Jkwa Ike, h Jkwe Jho 
hi, h Ilka Jkditte ; jkditte sse Iko, llkellke Jkukko 
llwk<5a-ggu." 

Jkhwan hho ssa ha ©hd jkwa, hah Jkwe Jho hi. 
(3353) ( ) Han Ilka Jkeh Jkiittau*; han +kakka Jkuttau 
sse ddabba llkellke ll^koa-ggii. Han Jkutten ; han 
Jkiitten ll^kda-ggu, han Jkiitta Jkiittau ; han line 
hi au if; hi sse dddbba llkellke hi Ikagen. Han 
(3354) Jgabbeten ti ( ) Jkeh II I. Hah llgu-ttih Jnuin. 

Han kkcrnh Ihlh, han ssueh ; au han ^auki Jkanna 
han tta ; au han tatti, ha ttabba kki le Jkuttau, 
(3355) au llkoih-ta Ikirrakenlkdrraken ; Jkiittau ssan ( ) 
Ikarraka Ihm sse. 

Ike -ta - Ikakaken Jkagen kkau l^kua ll^e ; hih ttai 
Skarra tte hi llgai. 

* In some instances, the second syllable of the word J Icuttau 
was pronounced as between au and o. These are here distinguished 
by an o underneath them. 


DOINGS AND PRAYERS TO CERTAIN STARS. 341 


u I saw Sirius." * The other man says to him: " I 
wish thee to burn (a stick) for us (towards) Sirius ; 
that the sun may shining come out for us ; that 
Sirius may not coldly ( ) come out." The other man (3352) 
(the one who saw Sirius) says to his son: " Bring me 
the (small) piece of wood yonder, that I may put (the 
end of) it (in the fire), that I may burn (it) towards 
grandmother ; that grandmother may ascend the sky, 
like the other one, Canopus." 

The child brings him the piece of wood, he (the 
father) holds (the end of) it in (the fire). ( ) He (3353) 
points (it) burning towards Sirius ; he says that 
Sirius shall twinkle like Canopus. He sings ; he 
sings (about) Canopus, he sings (about) Sirius ; he 
points to them with fire,f that they may twinkle like 
each other. He throws ( ) fire at them. He covers (3354) 
himself up entirely (including his head) in (his) kaross 
and lies down. 

He arises, he sits down ; while he does not again 
lie down ; because he feels that he has worked, putting 
Sirius into the sun's warmth ; so that Sirius may ( ) (3355) 
warmly come out. 

The women go out early to seek for Bushman rice ; 
they walk, sunning their shoulder blades. :£ 

* \\^6d-ggtc, " Canopus," and j huttau, " Sirius," are both female (3351') 
stars, || kdbbo savs. 

f With the stick that he had held in the fire, moving it up and 
down quickly. 

J They take one arm out of their kaross, thereby exposing one (3355') 
shoulder blade to the sun. 


342 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX. — 182. 

L. 

THE MAKING OF CLAY POTS. 

(Dictated, in 1878, by ihah+kass'o, from personal observation .) 

(8054) Ikagen llkuan ka Iku liken, hho u jk'au e llkau 
ta, hh(5 u hi ; he, hi Ine i, liken Ihin jk'au # 

(8055) e llkk<5e llna. He hi Ine Ikhui hi ; hi Ine le ( ) 

llkho hi, au Ilh5. He hi Ine jgwi tte hi, hi Ine Iki 
jkuiten hi. 

He, hi Ine llnau, hi jkuiten lla, hi Ine ttd'i tau 
tturru Ike, hi i ttiirru Ike-ta-ttuken ; hi Ine llhih hi. 
He hi Ine Iki lla hi, au llnein. 

(8056) He ( ) hi Ine jk'a'iten jkoa, f jk'aiten kiii nnai- 
nnainj hi. He, hi Ine jk'aiten Ike, hi Ine ll^am- 

ki Ik'aiten ddi kiii nnainnain Ike. He, hi Ine 

• 3 ° ^ 3 3 r 7 ^ 

llkhoe tte lk£ au jk'au ; he hi Ine llkallka jk'au. He 

(8057) ( ) hi Ine llkallka jk'au, he hi Ine ddi kui akken 

llwei jk'au, he hi Ine tthrri § jk'au, i. He, hi Ine 

(8055') * jk'au llkellkeya jkauoken e Iki tchuen e llkhoa hi kakaiten. 

Hin e, jk'au e jk'e ddi jkoa, 1, hi Iki tchuen e llkhoa hi. Jk'au 
Ine jkiya. 

(8056') jk'aun jkiya, jk'au e, Jk'e Hells hi, hin ||keh||ken ho, l. Hin 

|ne ta : jkoa-ttu, i; au hin tatti e, hi liken, dda llkha-ttu, i. 

He ti hin e, hi |ne ta : jkoa-ttu, i. 
f jk'au e, hi ddi Jkoa, i. 

(8058') Jk'au llkuan 6; hin Iku llkowa; Jk'eten |ku-g Ine jk'aiten, 
hin llkowa. He, hi |ne hhuruken hi ; hhuruken |hin, jk'au 
e tt'amya. He, hi Ine ttorottoro jho ||a, Jk'au e luerriya. 
Hin llnau, Ik'au e tt'ainya, hi Ine ttorottoro juhi ||kho lla 
hi, au jki. 

(8056') X jk'aiten ddi kui llkho jhu hi. llkuan Juhi llkhoa hi au jki. 

(8057') § Hi llkuan tabba hi; hi llkuan tabba, ddi jkoa, a. 


THE MAKING OE CLAY POTS. 


343 


IX.— 182 

'l. 

THE MAKING OF CLAY POTS. 

The women dig, removing the earth which lies (8054) 
above, lifting it away ; and they only dig out the 
earth * * * § which is inside there. And they scoop it 
out ; they put it into ( ) the hag. And they sling (8055) 
it (the earth) over their [left] shoulder, they take 
it home. 

And, as they return, they go along plucking grass, 
they only pluck the male grass ; they hind it together. 

And they take it to the hut. 

And ( ) they pound the pot (clay),f pound (it), (8056) 
making it soft 4 And they pound the grass, they 
also pound, making the grass soft. And they put 
the grass into the earth; and they make the earth 
wet. And ( ) they make the earth wet, and they (8057) 
make the earth very nice indeed, and they mould § 


* The earth resembles stones which contain things which seem (8055 ? ) 
to glitter. Hence, the earth of which the people make a pot 
contains things which are like them like the said glittering 
particles). The earth is red. 

The earth to which the people go, to dig it out, is red. They (8056 ? ) 
call it "a pot's hole", because they dig, making a stick's hole, 
there. Therefore, they call it " a pot's hole ". 

f The earth of which they make the pot. 

It is earth; it is dry; the people pound it (when) it is dry. (8058') 
And they sift it, sift out the earth which is soft. And they pour 
down the earth which is hard [to be pounded again at another 
time]. With regard to the soft earth, they pour it out upon 
a skin [a whole skin, which has no holes in it, a springbok skin]. 

{ Pound, making it like sand. (They) put it upon a skin. (8056 ? ) 

§ They work it ; they work, making a pot of it. (8057 ? ) 


344 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ilnau, hi dda Ikoa Ikhwi-lu, hi Ine Ikannlkann Ikwa 
(8058) hho tgwal, hi Ine ttdrokenttdroken ( ) 4gwai. Hi 
Ine jkannjkann, tte lla +gwai, He, hi Ine 4^aiinu 
kui akken llwei tgwai ; hi Ine ttkrriya ki llkaiten 
Ikoa. He hi Ine 4^annu ha, 4^annu ha, t^annn 
(8059) ha, ddi kui dkken llwei ( ) ha, hih Ine jkauaken 
jho lla ha.* He, hi Ine ddi jkoa-Opua a +eiini, ha 
ha ^aiiki akken Ilka ha. Hi Ine jgul jkoa au ssueh, 
au hi ta, Ikoa sse )"auki Ik'arraken. H£ tiken e, 

(8060) hi ( ) Ine jgul jkoa au ssueh, au jkoa jnaunko 

' * 

lk|a, au jkoa Ikagen Ilk6, jkoa li-ttuken jnaunko 
Ikaa ; au hi ta, Ikoa sse Ilk5, au Ikoa Iki ssueh. 

(8061) He, hi Ine jkauaken jho lla jkoa; hi Ine ddi ( ) 

Ikoa-Opud ; hi Ine ddi kui akken llwei ha. Hi Ine 
jkauaken jka jho lla jkoa-Opua au jkoa jk&rri ; he 
hi Ine hho ssa, +gwai-ka ti-kko ; hi Ine ll^amki 
Ilka Ilka hi. Hi Ine terri hi; hi Ine t^rri kui akken 
(8062) llwei ( ) hi; hi Ine jho lla hi. Hi Ine ll^amki 

ddi jkoa-Opua-kko, jkoa-Opua a kkiya. He, hi Ine 
jkauaken jho lla ha. Hi Ine Ilnau, jkoa Ine Ilk6, 
(8063) hi Ine ll^amki ddi jkhou, t hi Ine l^iii hi; hi ( ) 
Ine l^ui hi, hi Ine l^u kui nnainnain hi. Hi Ine 
I go mm llkhoe llkho hi au Jkoa ; he hi Ine kku le 

(8059') * llkuan ka, ha sse llko. 

(8062') t jkhou tsaxaiten llkuan Ihoaka; jk'eten Ine ta, jkhou ttxh 
I, au Jk'eten tatti, hi Ihin jkhou lu. 


THE MAKING OF CLAY POTS. 


345 


the earth. And, when they have made the lower 
part of the pot, they, holding, break off the clay, 
they rub ( ) the clay between their hands. They (8058) 
put the clay down (in a circle). And they smooth * 
the clay very nicely indeed ; they moulding, raise 
(the sides of) the pot. And they smooth it, smooth 
it, smooth it, make ( ) it very nice indeed, they set (8059) 
it down to dry (in the sun).f And they make a little 
pot which is small, beautiful beyond comparison. They 
anoint the pot with fat, while they wish the pot not 
to split. Therefore, they ( ) anoint the pot with fat, (8060) 
while the pot is still damp, when the pot has just 
newly dried, the pot's inner part (the inner layers, not 
the inside) being still damp ; because they wish the 
pot to dry when it has fat upon it (inside and out). 

And they set the pot (in the sun) to dry ; they make 
( ) a little pot ; they make it very nicely indeed. (8061) 
They set the little pot to dry (in the sun) by the side 
of the large pot ; and they take the other part of the 
clay ; they make it also wet. They mould it ; they 
mould it very nicely indeed ; ( ) they set it down. (8062) 
They also make another little pot, a little pot which 
is larger {lit. " grown "). And they set it to dry 
(in the sun). When the pot dries, they also prepare 
gum;J they pound it (between stones); they ( ) (8063) 
pound it, they pound, making it fine. They take it 
up in their hand (and) put it into the pot ; and they 

* This is done with a piece of bone called \kau or \au. (See 
IX. — 185, and also illustration.) 

f (They) wish that it may become dry. (8059') 

| The berries {lit. "the eyes") of the "Doom Boom" are (8062') 
black {i.e. " black gum"). The people call them the dung of the 
"Doom Boom", because they come out of the stem of the 
\khou tree. 

A white gum, called I giLi, seems also to be found on this tree. 


346 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jkhoa. Hi Ine Iku, an hin tatti e, jkhou e 4a4appem,* 
he llk^llkeya Ikwaie. 

(8064) He, hi Ine llnau, wai ( ) ya llna, jkui gwai Ine 
Ikha wai, hi Ine Ikueh le wai jgau, an Ikoa, he 
jkui gwai Ine Iki jkuiten ll^auken; ha Ine Ski lla 
ll^aiiken an llnein. 

(8065) He jkui laiti Ine lla ( ) kku le ll^aiiken au jkoa 
llkah. He, ha Ine j^aua ll^auken ; he, ha Ine llnau, 
ll^auka Ilka, ha Ine Iki Ihin jkoa, au li, ha Ine Ikenn 
Ihin ll^auken, au jkoa, he, ha Ine jho jkoa, I ; au ha 
(8066) ka, ( ) IS^auka ss£ kku sswei. 

He, ha f Ine ll^a, ha Ikam ssa jkoa, he ha Ine 
kku le jkhoa, ha Ine j^aua a. 

He, hi yaiiki ll^amki jk'aiten, £ au jkoa llkah a 
(8067) Ilka jkhe, au hi ta, ha sse yauki ( ) Iki. 


(8064') * Hin |ne derri Jkoa-ka ti e llnun, au hin ka, he jkhou, hi 

sse kku 4a+app, au jkoa-ka ti e llnun. 

(8066') t jkui gwaiya |ku tabha Iki wai-ta jnwa, ggauru |ki hi. 

Jkui |aiti |ku tterri Iki jkwonjkwoh. 

(8066') t i-e. jk'aiten jkwaken. 

Ixam-ka-jk'eten lya, au hin tatti, hi yaiiki |ki jko. Hi llkuan 
(8067') llkou jhoa Jkwa, au jkou a jkhe ( ) jk'au, au hi Ine jkan-na 
jkoii a |ki ha llkei, hi Ine jk'aiten a ; |k'aiten, Iki Jkwa ; au hin 
tatti e, hi ta, hi sse jxaiia ha, hi sse kkwarreten ha. 


THE MAKING OF CLAY POTS. 


347 


pour in water [into the new pot]. It [the gum] 
boils, while they feel that gum is that which adheres,* 
it resembles I few me. 

And, if springbok ( ) are at hand, a man kills (8064) 
a springbok, they pour the springbok's blood into 
(its) stomach, and the man brings back the blood ; 
he takes the blood home. 

And the wife goes ( ) to pour the blood into the (8065) 
new pot. And she boils the blood ; and, when the 
blood is cooked, she takes the pot off the fire, she 
takes the blood out of the pot (with a springbok 
horn spoon), and she sets the pot down ; because she 
wishes ( ) the blood [i.e., the blood remaining in the (8066) 
pot] to dry. 

And she f again takes the pot, and she pours water 
into (it), she boils meat. 

And, also, they do not strike with a stone, $ when 
a new pot is on the fire, because they wish it not ( ) (8067) 
to split. 

* They smear the pot outside [with gum taken out with the(8064 ? ) 
spoon, made from springbok horn, with which they stir the gum 
which is boiling inside], while they wisli this gum to adhere to 
the outside of the pot. 

f A man works at springbok's arrows, making them straight. (8066 ? ) 
A woman moulds pots. 

1 hah^lcass'o further stated that his wife, Ssuobha-Wkeh, had been 
taught to make pots by Rkde-ah (an elder sister of her mother, 
\kudiba-an), and also by \xit-ah (another elder female relative on 
the maternal side). 

X To break bones (with a stone). The Bushmen do this because (8066 7 ) 
they do not possess an axe. They place a bone upon a stone which 
stands upon ( ) the ground, while they hold a stone which has (8 067') 
a sharp edge, they strike with it ; strike, dividing the bone ; 
because they intend to boil it, that they may gnaw it. 


348 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(6083) 


(6084) 


(6082) 


(6083') 

(6084') 

(6082') 


IX.— 184. 

L. 

THE IKHU.* 

( Given in January , 1878, by |han+kass'6.) 

Iku Ikhiiken e a ; Ikhiiken -ka ti e, llkou jklie ha 
tsln^u. Ikhuken liikenliikaken Ine e a, h6 e llkeh- 
llken ss'o tu. 

1ST >*auki tenna ti e, whal-ta ( ) Iku&'ri f Inu e. 
In&bbaken llkuah a a, Ohoken llkuah e. 

Iten Iku llnuai Ikann ll^ke li a. He ti hm e, 

o 03*0 J 

/ „ 

Iften Ine Ilka kauin ha-ka ti e a. Hm Ine llkhou 
Ihbaken. 


IX.— 185. 

L. 

|AU. 

( Given in January , 1878, by lhan+kass'5.) 
jkwaken llkuah e ; jkaulkau e ; l^am-ka-jkuften Iku 
e da ha.J Han Iku-g Ine tabba ha ; han Iku I Iku min 
ha, o Ignara. 

Ikuiten Iku e, i hi hi. 

* Ik'e-ta tuken kail e jkouwi hi. 

% f 

f Han llkoe Ikhe a, han llkouta jkwa. Han Ikainya. 

t 

J Ha llkuah ddi, Ikaujkau e jk'u, au jguara. 





CL 




Length of string in Eig. 1 = 48 cm., in Fig. 2 = 54 cm. Thickness 
of wood about 3-4 mm. The edges are sharpened. 



Instruments similar to \gtin-\guin y made by the \km. 







A shaped rib bone called \au, used for eating certain food, 
(i of actual size.) 






1. Arrow made by the \kuh. 2. Bushman Arrow. 

(i size.) (£ actual size.) 

a. Section showing red marks by which the arrows are recognised 

by Bushmen. 









t 

[Jew'd gwm , male hartebeest. 

lAan^AtfM'o, March 2nd, 1879. 



W 



}Amm gwdi, male steinbok. 


\Tcuih \aiti , female steinbok. 



lArfri+fom'd. J>i. 28fA, 1879. 


jMwwl female gemsbok. 


IMwwz gwa\, male gemsbok. 

I kanakas*' d, Feb . 28tfA f 1879. 



r«i | atfi, female springbok. Wai gw f^ male sp ringbok. 

I hdh%kaa$ } 5, Jan . 20£A, 1879. 




(Ago, Suricata Zenick, or " Mierkat." 

1 and 2, males ; 3, a female. 

4, a jackal which chases them. 

\hdn£ka*$'o t Oct. 2nd , 1878. 
















' 

¦ 




























































BUSHMAN SOUP SPOON. 


349 


IX.— 184. 

L. 

THE BUSHMAN SOUP SPOON.* t 

The hair of the Proteles is here, that part of the (6083) 
hair which is on the top of its back.J The roots of 
the hair are here, those which stick into the skin. 

I do not know whether it is springbok's ( )(6084) 
paxwax § [which binds the hair on the stick]. This 
is the (wood of the) " Driedoorn " ; it (the " Drie- 
doorn ") is a bush. 

We scratch the fire together with it (i.e., with 
the handle of the brush). Therefore, the fire burns, 
blackening this part of it. It becomes black. 


IX.— 185. 

L. 


THE SHAPED RIB BONE.|| 

A bone (it) is ; a rib (it) is ; a Bushman is the one (6082) 
who makes it.^j He works it ; he shapes it with 
a knife. 

" Kambro " is that which we eat (with) it. 


* Among some Bushman implements given to Dr. Bleek by 
a friend, was the brush of which a picture appears in the illustra- 
tions. || lidbbo recognized this at once as a Bushman " soup spoon " ; 
and showed us, with immense pleasure, in what manner the 
Bushmen eat soup with it, and how well it can he used to take up 
the fat on the top of the soup, if rolled round in it. 

f The men are those who bind (i.e., make) them. 

X Beally along its back, the narrator explains. 

§ It is in the flesh ; it lies upon the bone. It is yellow. 

|| See illustration. 

% He works two ribs, with a knife. 


(6083') 

(6084') 

(6082') 


350 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 190. 

L. 

THE BUSHMAX DRUM AND DANCING 
RATTLES. 

( Given in January , 1878, by Ihan+kass'o.) 

(6127) Hi llkuaii llhin, jkauii Ilkho llho, 6 jkoa ttu.* He 
e, hi Ine llhin Ilkho jnui, I. He, hin Ine +ke, kii'i 
(6128) ta jkwi, jkoa ( ) i ; au hin ta jkoa sse Twa, 

au hi Ine Ikaiiken Ikoa. 

• 0*0 

Ik'e-ta ttuken sse llhmllhm llkau Ilkho whai Inuhtu, 
6 hi jnoajnoa f ; hi sse jk'oa, au whai [nuntuken Ine 
(6129) >wa ; Ilka ( ) ti e, whai jnuntu llkuaii Ikuei it, 
a, Ilka ti e, ssi ta Ikmten, I. Whai jniilnuhtuken 
e ; ssiten In6 ta Ikeriten, L Hin llkuaii Tw a, aken ; 
(6130) au ssi llhin llkau llkh<5a, ssi jnoa. ( ) Hin llkuaii 
Twa aken, au ssi llhin llkau llkhoa ssi jnoa. Hin 
llkuaii Twa aken, hin llkuaii ssakenssaken, au ssi 
Ine Ik'oa ; au ssiten Ine llhin llkau llkhoa ssi Inoa. 
(6131) jkoa a jk'e-ta Ikagen ( ) Ikauka, hail llkuaii iwa 
aken. H£ ti hin e, jk'^-ta ttuken llkuaii jk'oa aken, 
i ; au hin tatti e, jkoa a jk'e-ta Ikagen jkauka, llkuaii 
(6132) tVa aken. Ikeriten e jk'e-ta ttuken llhinllhih ( ) 
llkau llkhoa 6 hi Inoalnoa llkuaii Twa aken ; au hah 
tatti e, Ikui laiti a taba ttwaii, ha llkuaii a taba hi. 
He ti hin e, hi llkuan >wa ttwaii, i ; au hin tatti 
(6133) e, hi llkuan ( ) aken. He ti hin e, hi llkuaii ) J wa 
ttwaii, i ; au hin tatti e, hi llkuan aken. 

(6127 J ) * Whai-ta ||ho. Hin |ku-g |ne llkallka whai jxb'uxu, whai 
tte-ta ttu; hin e, hi Ine Ilnau, hi Ine Ilka, hin Ine llhin jk'irnh 
Ilkho hi, au jkoa ttu ; he hi Ine tata jkoa, I. 

(6128') f Hi jnoajnoa Inalna tssi. 


BUSHMAN DRUM AND DANCING RATTLES. 


351 


IX.— 190. 

L. 

THE BUSHMAN DRUM AND DANCING 
RATTLES.* 

They tie, putting the hag over the pot's (drum's) (6127) 
mouth, t Then they tie on the sinew. And they 
pull the drum's surface tight ( ) ; for they wish that (6128) 
the drum may sound, when they heat the drum. 

The men will tie springbok ears upon their feet ; J 
they will dance, while the springbok ears sound, as 
( ) springbok ears are wont to do, like what we call (6129) 
dancing rattles. Springbok ears (they) are ; we call 
them dancing rattles. They sound well, when we 
have tied (them) on to our feet. ( ) They sound (6130) 
well, when we have tied (them) on to our feet. They 
sound well, they rattle as we dance, when we have 
tied (them) on to our feet. The drum which the 
women ( ) heat sounds well. Therefore, the men (6131) 
dance well on account of it, while they feel that the 
drum, which the women heat, sounds well. The 
dancing rattles which the men tie ( ) upon their feet (6132) 
sound well, because a woman who works nicely is 
the one who has worked them. Therefore, they 
sound nicely, because they are ( ) good. Therefore, (6133) 
they sound nicely, because they are good. 


* For a drawing of the dancing rattles see illustration. 

A springbok's bag. They wet the skin of the springbok's (6 1 27') 


t 

thigh ; then, when it is wet, they tie it over the pot's mouth ; 
and they try the drum. 


t Their insteps. 


(6128') 


352 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


How the Dancing Battles are prepared. 

(6133) jkm laiti llkuan ho ui whai Jnuhtu-ka ttu # ; he 
e, ha Ine +umrh whai Jnuhtu-ka Jkorp an hah Iku-g 
(6134) Ine llkho hi whai Jnuhtu-ka ttu ; ( ) an ha Jnuhtu-ka 
Jkonwaii e, ha Ine 4umm hi. He e, ha Ine +uuim 
hi, he e, ha Ine Igomrn Ik! le Jk'au e tt'ainya, I. 
(6135) He e, hi Ine liken Ikuen, Ik! le Jk'au, i; au hih ( ) 
ta, whai Jnuntu sse llko ; hi sse Iki le llkerri tsa^aiten, 
o hi Iki Ihih 6a Jk'au. He e, hi Ine llhih llkho 
Jnui-Opua, au whai Jnuntu lemm-ka ti-Opua, he 
(6136) ssin ( ) bboken Jkhe, au hih Ine llhihllhih Jhah 
Ilk6rri tsa^aiten, llkerri tsa^alten sse yauki Ihih, 
au whai Jnuntu. He, hih Ine llkehllken Jkhou llkho, 
(6137) whai JnuJnuhtu, i; he hi Ine ( ) Iki Iki le, ttwat twain - 
ta Jkauken, e, Jk'e-ta ttiika sse llhihllhih lau llkau 
llkho whai JnuJnuhtu, au hi JnoaJnoa. 


IX.— 191. 

L. 

THE USE OF THE jGOINjGOlN, FOLLOWED 
BY AX ACCOUNT OF A BUSHMAN 
DANCE. 

( Given in January , 1878, by Ihan^kass'o.) 

(6108) Jk'e llkuan Jkauken JgoinJgoin, Jkhou sse ttenya f 
Jk'e, Jkhou sse leleya Jk'e kuiten a JkwetenJkw6ten, 

(61 33 5 ) * Tu a Iki |kuken. 

(6108') f llkhou l^kwai. 

prepared and filled, are tied, in fours or fives, on to the top of each 
foot (on the instep), letting the men's toes appear below them. 
(6108') § To become abundant. 






Length of the (one# -twisted) string — 40-5 cm. 

IGdiN-iGdike 













PREPARATION OF DANCING RATTLES. 


353 


How the Dancing Rattles are prepared. 

A woman takes off the skin* of the springbok's (6133) 
ear ; and then, she sews the inner skin of the spring- 
bok's ear, when she has laid aside the (hairy) skin 
of the springbok's ear ; ( ) for it is the inner skin of (6134) 
its ear which she sews. And she sews it, and she 
scoops up with her hand, putting soft earth into it. 

And they dig, lading in earth, because they ( ) wish (6135) 
that the springbok ears may dry ; that they may put 
in Wkerri *)* berries when they have taken out the 
earth. And then they tie on a small piece of sinew 
at the tip of the springbok ear, which was ( ) open, (6136) 
while they tie shutting in the Wkerri berries, so that 
the Wkerri berries may not come out of the springbok 
ear. And they pierce through the springbok ears ; 
and they ( ) put in little threads, which the men are (6137) 
to tie, fastening the springbok ears on their feet.J 


IX.— 191. 

L. 

THE USE OE THE \ GOINiaOIN , , FOLLOWED 
BY AX ACCOUNT OF A BUSHMAN 
DANCE. 

The people beat the \gbih\g6ih , (in order) that the (6108) 
bees may become abundant § for the people, (in order) 

* The hairy skin. (6133') 

f The top of this plant is described as being like that of (6135') 
a pumpkin. Its seeds are black, and small. They are found 
underneath the flower, which is red. The root is roasted and 
eaten by the Bushmen. The seeds are also eaten, unroasted ; 
being, when dry, pounded fine by the women with stones, and 
mixed with " Kambro " in order to moisten them for eating. 

t The narrator explains that the springbok ears, when thus (6137') 

2a 


354 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


jk'e sse-g Ine ha jkhou. He ti hih e, jk'e Jkauken 
(6109) ( ) jgoihjgoih, i; o jk'eten ta ti e, jk'e-ta jkhou 

sse leleya jk'e-kuiten a jkw^tenjkw^ten ; jk'e sse l& 
jkhou; 111 sse Iku jkhou au llhollho. 

(6110) He jk'^ten Ine Ikammain jkhou, I. He ( ) jk'e 
Ine Ikammain ti Ikuiten Ikhou 6 llnein, I. He Ik'e 
Ikii Iki lla Ikagen jkhou, 6 llnein, i. He ti kin e, 

Ikdgen la jkhe 6 llkafi, I, 6 llnein. H£ ti hin e, 

(6111) jk'e-ta ( ) ttuken Iki lla Ikagen jkhou 6 llnein, I; 
Ikagen sse lla ha ; au hin tatti e, Ikagen dd(5a 

llkan-a o llnein; au hin ta, Ikagen sse jhda hi 
jkoa # ; hi sse jk'oa, au Ikakaken Ine jkauenya. Ta, 
hi yauki llgwften, au hin tatti hi llkan-a. 

(6112) ( ) He hi Ine jk'oa, i ; au Ikaka jhda he a jkoa. 


He tiken e, Ikagen llkuah Ine jhoa hi jkoa ; hih 
llkuah Ine Ik'oa. Ik'e-ta ttukaken llkuah e Ine Ik'oa, 
(6113) o Ikdkaken Ine ( ) jhauwa, he tatti, hi jkdeta jk'e-ta 
ttuken, o jk'e-ta ttukaken Ine e, jk'oa ; o jkui laiti 
a jkwai, hah Ine a jkauken jkoa ; 6 Jk'e-ta Ikagen 
(6114) e l^kwaiya, hih ( ) e Ine jk<5eta jk'e-ta ttuken; au 
hih t&tti, jk'e-ta ttuken l^kwaiya, he jk'oa. 

Hd ti hih e, lloin llkuah Ine Ihin, o hih Ik'oa 

/ O D ' 

(6115) llna, au hih tdtti e, hi llkuah jkauenya. ( ) H£ ti 
hih e, lloin Ine Ihih, o hih jk'oa Iln4 ; au hih tatti 
e, Ikagen llkuan Ine jkauenya. He ti hih e, lloin 


(6111') * Ikagen sse llgwfta he, o Ikakaken |ne Jkauenya, Ikagen 

llxahi jhoa he I goo, hi sse jgufhm. 


sse 


A BUSHMAN DANCE. 


355 


that the bees may go into the other people's places, 
that the people may eat honey. Therefore, the people 
beat ( ) the \ gbihXgoih, when they desire that the (6109) 
people's bees may go into the other people's places, 
so that the people may cut honey, that they may put 
honey away into bags. 

And the people carry honey. And ( ) the people, (6110) 
carrying, bring the honey home. And the people 
take honey to the women at home. Tor, the women 
are dying of hunger, at home. Therefore, the men 
( ) take honey to the women at home ; that the women (6111) 
may go to eat, for they feel that the women have 
been hungry at home ; while they wish that the 
women may make* a drum for them, so that they 
may dance, when the women are satisfied with food. 

Tor they do not frolic when they are hungry. 

( ) And they dance, when the women have made (6112) 
a drum for them. Therefore, the women make a drum 
for them ; they dance. The men are those who dance, 
while the women ( ) sit down, because they clap their (6113) 
hands for the men when the men are those who 
dance ; while one woman is the one who beats the 
drum; while many women are those ( ) who clap (6114) 
their hands for the men ; because they feel that many 
men are dancing. 

Then, the sun rises, while they are dancing there, 
while they feel that they are satisfied with food. 

( ) Then, the sun rises, while they are dancing there, (6115) 
while they feel that the women are satisfied with 
food. Therefore, the sun shines upon the backs of 

* That the women may play for them, when the women are (6111 'J 
satisfied with food ; that the women may also arrange the (game of) 
l^oo for them, that they may roar. 


356 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


^vj» f ^ n ^ ^ f 

Ine Ikai Iko sho h! Ilkdullkdutenttu ; * o Ikakaken 

(6116) Ine Iki ( ) jkoa-ka jk'au. He ti hih e, ttiiken Ine 
Iki'ten+kiten 6 Ik'au, 6 Ikoa-ka' Ik'aun Ine luhita 
Ikagen ;£u, Ilka ti e, Ikagen Ike jhauwa ti e ; hd 

ti kin e, jkoa-ka jk'au Ine luhita Ikagen ^u, L Hih 
(6117) tatti e, hi ^auki ( ) ttaffiOpua jk'oa, ta, hi Ikii 

Ik'oa llwii. He ti hin e, hi Inoa-ka Ik'aiih Ine 

juhitih Ikagen ;£u, i; au hin tdtti e, hi llkuah jk'oa 
(6118) llwii. He ti hin e, hi ( ) Ikilki hi jnoa-ka jk'au, 

I, he koiten Ihin he Inoalnoa, hin koiten la le hi ; 

6 hih jk'oa jkhe. Hin Ikii jk'oa jkhe ta ; o Ikakaken 
(6119) ine e jhauwa, ( ) o jk'e-ta ttukaken Ine e jk'oa 

jkhe ta. 

He ti hin e, hi Ine Opuoin ki le lloin, t I; 6 hin 
tatti e, hi llkuah lluwa, 6 hin dd<5a jk'oa llna ; 

(6120) o jk'e-ta Ikakaken Ine Ika ( ) jkoa, T. Hd ti hin e, 
hi Ikii-g Ine Opuoin, ki le lloin, I ; o hin tatti e, hi 
llkuah lluwa, o hin ddoa jk'oa llna. He ti hin e, 
(6121) hi Ikii-g Ine Opuoin ki le I loin, i, au hih tatti e, ( ) 
hi llkuah lluwa, o hih dda jk'oa llna. Tiken Ikii-g 
Ine tss'iten, 6 hih dda Opuoin llnh ; au hih tatti e, 
hi llkuah lluwa, o hih dda Ik'oa llna. 

(6122) He ti hih e, jgaue Ikii a, ( ) hi Ine Iketen jkauken 
6 jkhoa, a, jkauken sse-g Ine Ikuenya hi, hi sse 
)hva ; ta, hi ddoa llkuah lloinya. He ti hih e, 
jkauken llkuah Ine jkagen kau Ikuenya hi, 6 jgaiie- 
(6128) tiiken; hi sse ssa Iwa. ( ) Ta, hi llkuah ddoa 


(6115') 

(6119') 


* jk'e-ta tuken llkuah e, lloin Ikai |ko ssin hi llkoullkoutentu. 
f Hih |ku-g |ne Opuoin au llkuanna, au hih tatti, Ikagen 
|ku llhinya hi a jkoa, au lloin Iku Ikati le. 


A BUSHMAN DANCE. 


357 


their heads ; * while the women get ( ) the dust of (6116) 
the drum. Then the men are covered (?) with dust, 
while the dust of the drum lies upon the women's 
faces, because the women are accustomed to sit down 
there ; therefore, the dust of the drum lies upon the 
women's faces. Because they (the men) do not ( )(6117) 
dance a little, for they dance very much. Therefore, 
their foot's dust covers the women's faces ; because 
they have danced strongly. Therefore, they ( ) get (6118) 
their foot's dust, which rises up from their feet, it rises 
up among them, as they stand dancing. They dance, 
standing around, while the women are those who 
sit down, ( ) while the men are those who dance, (6119) 
standing around. 

Therefore they sleep, letting the sun set ; f because 
they are tired when they have been dancing there ; 
while the women leave off ( ) drumming. Therefore (6120) 
they sleep, letting the sun set ; because they are 
tired when they have been dancing there. Therefore, 
they sleep, letting the sun set; because ( ) they are (6121) 
tired when they have been dancing there. The place 
becomes dark, as they sleep there, because they are 
tired, when they have danced there. 

Therefore, morning is (the time) when ( ) they (6122) 
send the children to the water, that the children may 
dip up (water) for them, that they may drink ; for 
they are thirsty. Therefore, the children go early 
to dip up (water) for them, at the break of day, so 
that they may come to drink. ( ) For they are (6123) 

* The men are those, on the hacks of whose heads the sun (6115') 
shines ( literally , upon " the holes above the nape of their neck "). 

f They sleep at noon, because the women had bound on the (6119') 
drum for them, when the sun had just set. 


358 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Iloinya. Hin llnau, ti e, hi llkuan d<5a lluwa. Hd 
ti hih e, hi ^auki llkhda hi llkuan e, sse Iketen 
jkauken o Ikhoa ; 6 hih Ihamm ta ti e, hi dd(5a 
Iku jnaunko lluwa. Hd ti hin e, hi >auki llkhoa, 
(6124) hi llkuan e sse Iketen jkauken 6 jkhoa. ( ) Au 
hih tatti e, hi dd<5a Iku jnaunko jhamm Opuom llna ; 
ail hih tatti e, hi ddoa Iku jnaunko lluwa. He ti 
hih e, hi ^auki llkhda he e sse Iketen Ikauken o Ikhoa. 
(6125) ( ) He ti hih e, hi llnau, hi Ine jkho, i, hih Ine 

Iketen Ikauken 6 Ikhoa, i ; au hih tatti e, hi llkuan 
Opuoin, kkaiya hi. He ti hih e, hi Ine jkho, i. 
(6126) Hd e, ( ) hi Ine Iketen jkauken 6 jkhoa, i. Hih 
Ine Ikakka jkauken, hih Ine kui, hih Ikakka Jkauken, 
Ikauken koa sse antau Iki ssa hi Ikhoa, hi sse ardko 
(6127) ssa >wa. Ta, ( ) hi ddoa Iloinya. 


IX— 197 


L. 


PREPARATION OF THE FEATHER BRUSHES 
USED IN SPRINGBOK HUNTING. 


( Given in December , 1878, by |han+kass*i^ from personal 
observation .*) 

(8073) Hi llkuan Iku jkdujkou llkho jkoaken, +kam4kam 
llkho ttdi Ikhu, au jnabba. Hih llkhou Iwkwal ; he 
hi Ine jka/u jkaoken e jklya, hi Ine jya'uwi f jkdaken-ka 

(8074) ( ) Ohdken. He, hi Ine ddi wai llnwaintu-ka ttu ; 
hi Ine jkaujkau le, ttuattuain,J he hi Ine Iku jkdaken. 

(8073') * N llkuan ka ssin ll^koeri, n jkoi'n a jkouwi Jkoaken. 

f ddi llkhou Jki hi. 

(8074') J "Rieme" llkuan e. jhaujhau-ka Jkauken llkuan e. jkuara 
llkuan ka, Jya, I. 


PREPARATION OP PEATHER BRUSHES. 


359 


thirsty. They are aware that they are tired. There- 
fore, it does not seem as if they will he those to send 
the children to the water ; for they feel at first that 
they are still tired. Therefore, it does not seem as 
if they will he those to send the children to the 
water. ( ) Because they are still sleeping there for (6124) 
a while ; because they are still tired. Therefore, 
they do not seem as if they will be those to send the 
children to the water. ( ) Therefore, when they (6125) 
awake, they send the children to the water ; when 
they feel that they have had their sleep out. There- 
fore, they awake. And then ( ) they send the (6126) 
children to the water. They speak to the children, 
they thus say to the children, that the children must 
quickly bring them water, that they may quickly 
come to drink. For ( ) they are thirsty. (6127) 


IX.— 197. 


PREPARATION OF THE FEATHER BRUSHES 
USED IN SPRINGBOK HUNTING.* 

They roll the feather brushes, binding the ostrich (8073) 
feathers (the body feathers) upon the u Driedoorn " 
stick. They become numerous ; and they (the Bush- 
men) pound red stones, f they paint $ the feather 
brush ( ) sticks. And they make ready the (dried) (8074) 
skin of a springbok's chest; they thread little thongs § 

* I used to see my grandfather ( Tsatsi ) roll the feather brushes. (8073') 

f The red stones here meant, are || not ttd. At the " Phila- 
delphia Exhibition," in November, 1875, Dia\hwcnn recognized 
red haematite as \\1cti. 

J Paint them red. 

§ Thongs (they) are. The "children of thongs" (they) are. (8074') 
The Korannas call them \ y>a. 


360 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8075) 

(80831 


(80831 

rev.) 


(8289) 

(8290) 

(8074') 

(80831') 

(8289) 

(8289') 


Hi Ine Iku Ikoaken ; hi Ine liken llkuam ,* * * § hi Ine 

like llkuain, hi Ine Ikarin llkou tte Ikoaken, au 

°- > w • ° 

llkuain-ta llgdo, ( ) au llkuain-ta llgoowa Ine kkditen 
14 Ikoaken. 

• D o 

( ) Mmai, hi liken, f ddi Ilkha-ttu-Opua ; hi Ine 
llkhde llkho li tsa^aiten a. He, hi Ine llkou jho 
llkuam, au li tsa^aiten; au hf ta, llkuainya ssin 
kkwe kkoiten, au llkuam ^auki mmemmehnih ; ta, 
llkuam ssan hbu le jkoaken, au liya mmemmehnih, 
au hi mmemmehnihya, au hi Ilka. 

Hi llkuan Ikanh Iko llkou llkhba, wai ttu, hi Ine 
jku Jh6a Ikou, au ti e, |k6aken-ka jkwhlkwhgen llna 
hi, au hi ta, ( ) llgoowa ssin i Ihih, au tt(5i Ikhu. 


Taken from IX.— 198. 

L. 

THE MARKING OF ARROWS. 

(Given in March , 1879, hy jhah^kass'o, from personal observation.) 

I^am-ka-jk'e llkuan e, HAtten J jnwa,§ au hih ta, 
hi ssin mmu +enn jnwa, au ( ) hi l^a-i wai, au ti 
e jkwal. He, hi llnau, hi Ine Ike-I wai juod, hi Ine 

* j>Va-kau (the name of a little thorny plant, somewhat like 
juniper). Ha luken e, jk'e ta llkuain, I, au hih tatti, hi yauki 
ttamOpua llan. He tiken e, jk'e kkoi'ten hi au Ikoaken. jk'eten 
Ine ta llkuain, I, au jywa-kau |u e leta jk'au. 

f Jk'e-ta ttuken |ku liken au llkhaiten e ya'uki Iki jkweten ; 
hih Iku e, jk'e-ta ttuken liken, 1. 

J ^fatten (which is the same in the singular and plural) is also 
the name of the mark on the arrows made with \kwa£ and tto. 

§ jnwa-ka-ku. 


MARKING OF ARROWS. 


361 


into (it); and they put away the feather brushes. 

They put away the feather brushes; they dig up 
II kuam* they roast (the stem of) the Wkuam, they lay 
the feather brushes over the II huam's smoke, ( ) while (8075) 
the II huMs smoke ascends into the feather brushes. 

( ) First, they dig f [with a stick pointed with (8083^) 
horn], making a little hole ; they put live coals into 
it. And they put Wkuam upon the live coals, while 
they wish that the Wkuam may smoke quietly, and 
not flame up ; for the Wkuam would set the feather 
brushes on fire, if the fire were to flame up, if they 
(the stems) flamed up, when roasted. 

They (the Bushmen) put the springbok skin J over 
(the fire) ; they put a stone upon the place where the 
feather brush sticks are, for they intend ( ) that(8083jp) 
the smoke should only go out through the ostrich 
feathers. 


Taken from IX. — 198. 

L. 

THE MARKING OF ARROWS. 


The Bushmen are those who mark arrows, § while (8289) 
they wish that they may recognize the arrows, when 
( ) they are shooting springbok at one place. And, (8290) 
when they are following the springbok spoor, when 


* Its stem is that which the people call \\kuckn, because it (8074') 
does not a little smell. Therefore, the people smoke the feather 
brushes with it. The people call the stem of the j ywa-kau, which 
is in the earth, \\kuain. 

f Men dig with sticks which have no digging-stick stones (80 8 3^) 
(upon them) ; they are those with which men dig. 

J They turn the skin, into which the feather brushes have been 
put, upside down, over the hole into which the live embers and 
the || kuain were put. 

§ All the arrows. (8289 ? ) 


i362 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ilnau, hi Ine ttai tau hoho jnwa, hi Ine mmii leiin 
jnwa. Hih Inb ta: "A-ka jnwa kail llkhoa e, ta, 

(8291) hi-ta Ikbtten Iku Ikuei ( ) u." jkukko a ha Ine 
kiii : " I, h-ka jnwa kah Ike." Hi Ine ll^a, hi lla, 
ho jnwa a. jkukko a ha Ine kui: "N-ka jnwa Ike 
llkhoa Ike; ta, hi-ta tk^tten Iku Ikuei u." 

(8292) ( ) Ikwae* llkuan b, hi ddl Iketten, i. Hi Ine 

llkhoe tte tt6, he hi Ine jkalten II wke tt6, au Ikwae ; 
he Ikwae Ine llkhou jki, i; he e, hi Ikbtten jnwa, i. 


The Adhesive Substance used by the Bushmen in 
making Arrows. 

( Given in January , 1878, by Ihan^'kass'o.) 

(6088) Ikwaiiten llkuan e; llkudrri llkiten e. Hah like- 
llkeya "pompoon", hah kuerrekuerre. Ha llkiten 
(6089) iku jkuita ; han llkellkeya Jkhoa. Ha ( ) llkiten 
^auki ttamOpua Ikuita ; hi-ta Ikuitenlkuitaken like- 
llkeya Jkhwaiten. Hih Ine e jgauokcn. 

Ssiten Iku ^hanna jho a; he e, ssiten Ine jkann 
(6090) jkun Jho jgoe, i; ( ) o ssiten ka, ha llki sse juhi 
ssih jgoe ; ssi sse di Ikwai, I. He ssi Iku-g Ine 
kuhkuh, ddi kui ta li hi ; he ssi Iku-g Ine jk'aiti, 
(6091) o hih Ine ta li. He e, ssi-g ( ) Ine jk'aiten ^ao 
hi, i. He ssi Ine i Ikbi, o jnabba ; ssiten Ine ikwa, 
i o Inabba ; o ssiten ddi kui kubrrekkudrre ha ; 
o ssiten li, ti e, ssi ta ssi se ddi whai-ta jguatten-ta 
jkauken. 

* Hi llkuan ka Harpis, I. 


(8292') 


ADHESIVE SUBSTANCE USED IN MAKING ARROWS. 363 


they are going along picking np the arrows they 
recognize the arrows. They say : " Thy arrow it 
seems to he, for, their mark is like ( ) this." Another (8291) 
man says: u Yes, my arrow is yonder." They again 
go to pick up this arrow. The other man says: 

" My arrow seems to he yonder ; for their mark is 
like this." 

I kwqS* is that with which they make the marks. (8292) 
They put ttd into (it), and they pound the ttd together 
with the \kwqS ; and the I kwqe becomes red on account 
of it ; then, they mark the arrows with it. 

The Adhesive Substance used by the Bushmen in 
making Arrows. 

It is I kwah t j it is II kuarri juice. It is like a (6088) 
pumpkin, it is round. Its juice is white ; it is like 
water. Its ( ) juice is not a little white; its white- (6089) 
ness resembles milk. It is poison. 

We make an incision (?) (and) set it (the II kuarri) 
down ; and then we hold a tortoise (shell) underneath 
it ; ( ) because we wish its juice to be upon the (6090) 
tortoise (shell), that we may make \kwqS of it. And 
we warm (it) by the fire, making it hot ; and we 
beat (?) it, when it is hot. Then, we ( ) beat (?), (6091) 
cooling it. And we take it up in this manner, J with 
a "Driedoorn" stick; we do in this manner to it, 
with the " Driedoorn " stick, as we make it round ; 
while we think that we intend to make little spring- 
bok arrows. 

* They (the farmers) call it " Harpis." (Probably harpuis, (8292' ) 
* * * " resin.") 

t The later spelling of this word has been followed in the 
translation, as probably more correct. 

X The narrator here imitated the manner of taking up the (6091') 
I hwae by means of rolling it upon a stick. 


364 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 210. 

L. 

MODE OF GETTING RID OF THE EVIL 
INFLUENCE OF BAD DREAMS. 

( Given in August , 1875, in the Katkop dialect , by Di'a|kw|m.) 

(5161') N ^ 6 a, ha kah ka ssih llnau, ha ka ha sse Iwkua, 
ha llnau, ha ka ha sse ttai, ha Ikam Ikau, ha llnau, 
ha Ikomm jho Ikau, 6 li-ta jkiijkuiten, ha kku : 

(5162') " jkabbi-a Ike!" o ha ( ) ka tchueh jkojkom e, M 
ssih llkhabbo-a Iki he, ha ka, he sse llkba-ken llkhoe 
llnallna II ; o he ^aiiki ttal, hi ha. Ta, ha llnau., 
M ^a Ikwei Ikwelkwa, ha ddi, hih kfe sse ttal, 
hi ha. He ti e, ha ttal he, he kko Ine ^auki dken ; 

(5163') 5 ha +eh-na, ti e, ha ssih ( ) llkhabbo-a tchueh 
Ikolkom, hd yank! aken. He tiken e, ha Ikwei 
Ikwah, ddi, i ; o hah tta Ilka ti e, ha-g llnau, ha 
ttai, hia llkhabbo a, ha ssih llkhabbo-a ha, ha ka 
ttal yauki ssih ) J wa Ihahnuwa. 

ll^e e, ha llkdh he, hih yauki ssih ykwgykwa ha 

(5164') a, o he tta Ilka ti e, ha ( ) Iku llkhabbo-a ll^koaken. 
He tiken e, ll^e yauki ka ll^eya Twa mama a, i ; 
o ll^eten tta Ilka ti e, mama Ikix llkhabbo-a ll^kdaken ; 
he tiken e, ll^e Ikwei yb, i. 


IX.— 211. 

L. 

CONCERNING TWO APPARITIONS. 

(. Related in January , 1876, in the Katkop dialect , by Dialkwain.) 
(5810) Ssi kkah Inau llkho h lha, 6 kkuerrekkudrre-ttuken. 
Ssiten Ine llnau, 6 ssften ka ssi Inau kkuiten ha-ha, 


AGAINST EYIL INFLUENCE OF DREAMS. 


365 


IX.— 210. 

L. 

MODE OF GETTING RID OF THE EYIL 
INFLUENCE OF BAD DREAMS. 

My mother used to do in this manner, when she (51 61 ') 
intended to go out to seek for food, when she was 
about to start, she took a stone ; (and) as she 
plunged the stone into the ashes of the fire, she 
exclaimed: " Rider (?) yonder ! " while she ( )(5162') 
wished that the evil things, about which she had 
been dreaming, should altogether remain in the 
fire; instead of going out with her. For, if she 
did not act in this manner, they would go out 
with her. That place to which she went would 
not be nice ; while she knew that she had ( ) (5163') 
dreamt of evil things which were not nice. There- 
fore, she acted in this manner ; because she was 
aware that, if she went out with the dream which 
she had dreamt, her going out would not be 
fortunate. 

The Bushman rice which she dug would not be 
favourable to her, because it was aware that she ( ) (5164') 
had dreamt evil things. Therefore, the Bushman 
rice would not be favourable to mamma; while the 
Bushman rice was aware that mamma had dreamt 
evil things; therefore, the Bushman rice would act 
in this manner about it. 


IX.— 211. 

L. 

CONCERNING TWO APPARITIONS. 

We buried my wife in the afternoon. When we (5810) 
had finished burying her, we ( ) returned to the (5811) 


366 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5811) ssiten ( ) Ine jkuiten h llka^ai Whai-ttu-ggu llneih, 
e he 6a Ihih he. Hm ssan jnau hi n, o-g n lha ; 
(5812) h6 ssi ttai juhi ho lla ( ) jk'ou, i. 

He ssi lauwi tss'a a llkho jkhwa-Opua, 6 hah 
juhi ss'o jk'ou, 6 han llkhoa ha Ikwllkwi llkau ta, 
6 ha jkwajkwagen. 

(5813) He h llka^ai Whai-ttu kukkui, hah ( ) ttuttu ssi: 
" llwkoen yyu! Tss'a dde ^a Ike, juhi ss'o jk'ou? 
Ha llkho jkhwa-0pua." He jkweiten-ta- liken kukkui, 
han ttuttu ssi: " Ine llbkoen yyu! Tss'a ddin a, 
(5814) ha tss'a, ha Ikii ( ) jkei llougen Ikwaiya jkui a? 
Han llkho ha jkhiya, jkhi a Ddiajkwain lha sin 
jkhiya ha." He, h llka^ai Whai-ttu kukkui, han 
(5815) l^ke : "I, h ll^d-Opua wwe ! ( ) Ti kkan jkei 

llougen llkho, ti e, Ilka lha ka ssih Ikuei-u, L" Han 
llnau, ssi ttai lla, hah llkhda ha ssd ko ll^koen, ti 
e, ssi Ihih he. 

(5816) He llku-an kukkui, han l^ke : ( ) u jk'e jkejkerriten 
kah ka ssih kkakka ke, ti e, jnu jk'e hha ka llnau, 
llwke a he +ni Ikui a, hih ha ka ti Ikui luhi ssih i, 
(5817) i Ini ha. Uken llkuah +en-na, ti e, ha ( ) ttiiko 
llkuah ssih Iki Ikhwa-Opua a +enhi, he tiken llkuah 
e, u Ikii sse a hi, i sse ll^koen tss'a a juhi ss'd 

rvj ^ t f -w 

jk'ou wa a, ha \ku Ikwai kwokkwah-a jkui, ha I nail 
(5818) Ikii llna, ( ) u jkui." He li kukkui, h l^ke : 
"+kam©pua! IN' kan sse llnau, 6 ka j^uonni Ikam 
ssa h-ka llneih, h sse llwkoen, ti e, n Ino sse ll^a h 
ssa Ini ha, 6 ha ss'o." 

(5819) He ( ) ssi lla he llneih, i. He ssi lau llnallna, i, 
6 llwke-ka ti-0pua. He h kukkui, h l^keya he a, 


CONCERNING TWO APPARITIONS. 


367 


home of my sister, Whai-ttu ,* and the other people, 
whence they had come forth. They had come to 
bury my wife with me ; and we went away, crossing 
over ( ) the salt pan. (5812) 

And we perceived a thing which looked like 
a little child, as it sat upon the salt pan, seeming 
as if it sat with its legs crossed over each other. 

And my sister, Whai-ttu , spoke, she ( ) questioned (5813) 
us : " Look ye ! What thing sits yonder upon the 
salt pan? It is like a little child." And j kweiten- 
td-\\ken [another sister] spoke, she asked us: " Look 
ye! Why is it that this thing is ( ) truly like (5814) 
a person? It seems as if it had on the cap which 
Ddid\kwqiri ) s wife used to wear." And my sister, 
Wliai-ttu , spoke, she answered: " Yes, 0 my younger 
sister! ( ) The thing truly resembles that which (5815) 
brother's wife was like." It did thus as we went 
along, it seemed as if it sat looking (towards) the 
place from which we came out. 

And I! ku-an spoke, she said: ( ) u The old people (5816) 
used to tell me, that the angry people were wont 
to act thus, at the time when they took a person 
away, they used to allow the person to be in front 
of us, (so that) we might see it. Ye know that 
she ( ) really had a very little child, therefore, ye (5817) 
should allow us to look at the thing which sits 
upon this salt pan; it strongly resembles a person, 
its head is there, ( ) like a person." And I spoke, (5818) 
I said: "Wait! I will do thus, as I return to 
my home, I will see, whether I shall again perceive 
it, as it sits." 

And ( ) we went to their home. And we talked (5819) 
there, for a little while. And I spoke, I said to 
* WTiai-ttU means " Springbok Skin". 


368 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


\ v f v 

he llkh(5a kail +i, n Tau tail, h kah jkuiten; ta 
(5820) ilkoin le. He n llkuah ( ) Ine jkuiten, I. ST llkuah 

Ine +i, ti e, h kail lie, Ilka, ti e, ssi ssin Ikuei 

Ikuah, ssa, i ; h sse ttauko ll^koen, ti e, n Ino sse 
(5821) ll^a, h Ini ha, o ha ss'o. 1ST llkuah Ine ttauko ( ) 

f f \ f 

llwkoen, ti e, ha ssin ss'd he ; o kah 4i, ti e, Oho 
Iku ss'o ssin e. H Ine ll^koen, ti e, h Tauki Ine Ini 
ha, o ti e, ha ssin ss'o he. He, h Ine llkuah jhumrh, 
(5822) tie, ( ) tss'a a Ibarra, ha oa Iku ssin e. 

Ta, mama-ggu ka tkakka ke, ti e, i ha llnau, 


(5823) 

(5824) 

(5825) 

(5826) 

(5823') 


jgiten e 4ni i, iten ha llnau, ll^ke a, he kie sse 

llkoaken Ine Iki ttai i a, ( ) ha llwketen a, i Ike- 

kko ha Ine juhi ssin i, o han ka, i sse Ini ha, o hah 

\ f 

tta Ilka ti e, ha jnaunko +i i. He tiken e, ha 
llgo # jnaunko kie llwkoen i, o han tta ( ) Ilka ti 
e, ha Iki llkuah Tauki ka ha ttai ^u ttu i ; ta, ha 
jge o i. He tiken e, i jnaunko Ini ha, i. 

H ll^ai lha,f Manssegh J Ine tkakka ssi a, ti e, 
ha ha ( ) llnau, o hah jhahh-a ttin, han ha llnau, 
hah ttai I la, hah ha lauwi jkhwa-Opua, o han 
hhitya § o Oho ll^a^u. He, ha ha kukkui, hah 
4i: 'INT-ka jkhwa ^a e ( ) ss'o ssin jku^e jgauka n ? 


* Ha-ka ti e, ha jnaunko £1 i, hih e, ha ssan juhi ssin i, I ; 
6 ll^ke a Jgiten | Ibarra Iki ttai ha, a, ha ll^keten a, ha Ikuei 
Iku&n ddi, a. Ta, mamaggu Iki +kakka ke, ti e, o I Ikuken, 
i llkellkeya ti e, Inu-jk'e dda he ; he ta Ikvmya hi a, tss'a 
a Ibarra. 

(5824') f H ll^ai lha is, the narrator explains , an abbreviation of 
N llka%ai lha. 

J N llkaxai la-kkumm I hah e, =|:kakka ssi a, ti e, ha |na 
jkhwa a Ikii jhamnn ha. Hah Iku ka ha {ku^e I hih. 

(5825') § hhlka or hhitya is, Diajkwain says, — hhlten ha-ha. 


CONCERNING TWO APPARITIONS. 


369 


them that they appeared to think that I did not 
wish to return (home); for the sun was setting. 

And I ( ) returned on account of it. I thought (5820) 
that I would go in the same manner as we had 
come; that I might, going along, look whether I 
should again perceive it, as it sat. Going along, 

I ( ) looked at the place, where it had sat; because (5821) 
I thought that it might have been a bush. I saw 
that I did not perceive it, at the place where it 
had sat. And I agreed that ( ) it must have been (5822) 
a different kind of thing. 

For my mothers used to tell me that, when the 
sorcerers are those who take us away, at the time 
when they intend to take us quite away, ( ) that (5823) 
is the time when our friend is in front of us, while 
he desires that we may perceive him, because he 
feels that he still thinks of us. Therefore, his outer 
skin * still looks at us, because he feels ( ) that (5824) 
he does not want to go away (and) leave us; for 
he insists upon coming to us. Therefore, we still 
perceive him on account of it. 

My sister's husband, Mansse , f told us about it, 
that it had ( ) happened to him, when he was hunting (5825) 
about, as he was going along, he espied a little 
child, peeping at him by the side of a bush. And 
he thought : ' Can it be my child who ( ) seems to (5826) 


* That part of him (with) which he still thinks of ns, is that (5823') 
with which he comes before us, at the time when the sorcerers 
are taking him away ; that is the time when he acts in this 
manner. For, my mother and the others used to tell me, that 
(when we die) we do as the \nu people do ; they change (?) 
themselves into a different thing. 

f My sister, \a-kkunm?s husband it was who told us, that he (5824 ') 
had perceived a child who was afraid of him. It wanted to 
run away. 


370 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Han Ine ss'o Ugh jk'ui, o han ss'o ssin jgauka h. ? 
He Mansse ha kukkui, han +i, 4 Akke n ttai Iko 
(5827) Me, h sse llwkoen jkhwa a a, ti e, ( ) jkhwa dde 
Ino e. J 

He Mansse ha llwkoen, ti e, jkhwa ha llnau, jkhwa 
llwkoen, ti e, ha ttal Ikam I la jkhwa, ha sse llwkoen 
jkhwa a e, han ha llwkoen, ti e, jkhwa ha ^wah 
(5828) ( ) ha jhammi ha. jkhwan ha ssuen-a llnuh hho 
Oho ; Ikhwan ha Ik'auru-i ; tiken ha ^waii ha ka 

J D ' o D 

f ^ m m ^ f f 

ha jku^e Ihin. He ha ha llkuan ttal jhm I la, o ha; 
(5829) he jkhwa ha ( ) kkdan Ihin, T. Han ttai jk'auru-a 
Ihin; hah ha ^wan ha ka ha jku^e Ihin. 

He Mansse ha llwkoen, ti e, tss'a dde Ino a Jkhwa 

^ /V t 

(5830) >*auki Ine ka ha sse ha a; he jkhwa Ikii ( ) ^wah 
ha lhammi ha. He ha ha kkunnih-i Ikhwa, i ; o 
Ikhwa llwkoen Ikhe a. Han ha llkuan llwkoen, ti e, 
Ikhwa latti-Opua llkuan e; han ha llwkoen, ti e, 
(5831) Jkhwa llkuan ( ) Ikwaiya jkui. Han llnau, tiken- 
tiken -kkuiten* han iVauki Ikwaiya Ikui ; han ha 
Ikii-g Ine kukkui, han +i, han Iku sse ^u ttii jkhwa. 
(5832) Ta, jkhwa a Iku Jhammi ha, ( ) hd Ikii a a. 
He ha ha Ikii ttai, o Ikhwan Ikhe ko Ik'auru-i. 
He jkhwa h| llwkoen, ti e, ha ttai ^u ttui ha; 
han ha Ik'ii ssa, han ssuen. 

d • J o 


(5831') 


r 9 

* Han llnau, ll^ke-kko, o ha llwkoen ha, han ^auki Ikwaiya 

\ e ^ rvj 3 

jkui; ta, ha |ku l^arra-sse Ikwaiya, tss'a a Ibarra. Han llkuan 
I kho jkui, o ti-kko. 


CONCERNING TWO APPARITIONS. 


371 


have run after me ? It seems to have lost its way, 
while it seems to have followed me.' And Mdnsse 
thought : ' Allow me to walk nearer, that I may 
look at this child (to see) ( ) what child (it) be. 5 (5827) 

And Mdnsse saw that the child acted in this 
manner, when the child saw that he was going up 
to it, that he might see what child it was, he saw 
that the child appeared as if ( ) it feared him. The (5828) 
child sat behind the hush ; the child looked from 
side to side ; it seemed as if it wanted to run away. 

And he walked, going near to it ; and the child ( ) (5829) 
arose, on account of it. It walked away, looking 
from side to side; it seemed as if it wanted to 
run away. 

And Mdnsse looked (to see) why it was that the 
child did not wish him to come to it ; and the child 
( ) seemed to be afraid of him. And he examined the (5830) 
child; as the child stood looking at him. He saw 
that it was a little girl ; he saw that the child ( )(5831) 
was like a person. In other parts* (of it) it was 
not like a person; he thought that he would let the 
child alone. For a child who was afraid of him 
( ) was here. And he walked on, while the child (5832) 
stood looking from side to side. And (as) the child 
saw that he went away from it, it came forward 
(near the bush), it sat down. 


* At one time, when he looked at it, it was not like a person; (5831 J ) 
for, it was different looking, a different thing. The other part 
of it resembled a person. 


372 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 228. 


L. 


THE JACKAL'S HEART HOT TO BE 
EATEH* 

( Dictated , in September , 1878, by lhan^kass'5, from his maternal 
grandfather , Tssatssi.) 

(7457) Hi llkuan tatti e, jkhwa-Opua \k& ta ddi Ik^rre, 
he ti hih e, jkhwa-Opua yauki ta hi koro 1111, au 
hih tatti e, koro Taiiki ttamOpua jhamml, ta, k<5ro 

(7458) ( ) ka Iku jkii^e Ihin. 

llkaueyaken a, jkhwa-Opua ka ha ha 11, ha a Taiiki 
jhamml, ta, jkhwa-Opua Ike-g Ine ddi li-ssa, au kdro 
II, hah >*auki Ine jgauko jhamml. 

(7459) He tiken e, i Ta'uki ka-g Ine k jkhwa-Opua ( ) 
kdro II, au iten tatti e, k(5ro Ike ta Iku jku^e u lie, 
au ha Ta'uki Im i; au ha Iku I tda 1 jnoa l^droken, 
ha Iku jku^e u, au ha Ta'uki jkwe sse. 


Note added by the Narrator . 

(7457') Ha Iku ssin Mamma jkuinjkuin au Igappem-ttu, 
he Igappem-ttu wa-g Ine a ha jkuin. He ha Ine 
lk£-l jkuin, ha Ine I Ihin jkuin, I; he ha Ine Iki ttdi 
jkuin, au ha jkahna au jhou a, ha llhinya jkuin a. 
Ha jhamma Iku llhihllhih jho jkuin; he, ha llnau, 
(7458') jkuinya Ine llkhal ( ) ha-ha jhou, ha Ine jkhou-l 
jkuin, he jkuinya Ine lkha-1 kdro. 

Ha Ine ITa'o kdro ttu ; he, n Ikoettuka Ine Ikuakken 

• 1 / « o o 

j. \ ~ \ ~ 

koro ttiittu ; hi Ikuakken hi, hi +umm hi. 

*¦ In this piece of native literature several words occur of 
which the meaning is not yet clear to the translator. 


jackal's heakt not to be eaten. 


373 


IX.— 228. 

L. 

THE JACKAL'S HEAKT NOT TO BE 
EATEN. 

They (the Bushmen) feel that a little child is wont (7457) 
to be timid; therefore, the little child does not eat 
jackals' hearts; because the jackal is not a little 
afraid; for the jackal ( ) runs away. (7458) 

The leopard is the one whose heart the little child 
eats ; it which is not afraid ; for, a little child 
becomes a coward from the jackal's heart, it fears 
immoderately (?). 

Therefore, we do not give to a little child ( ) the (7459) 
jackal's heart; because we feel that the jackal is 
used to run away, when it has not (even) seen us; 
when it has only heard our foot rustle, it runs away, 
while it does not look towards (us). 


Note added by the Narrator . 

He (my grandfather, Tss&tssi) had bought dogs (7457') 
from I gappem-ttu, and \gappem-ttu gave him a dog. 

And he took hold of the dog, he tied the dog up ; 

and he took the dog away; holding the thong with 

which he had tied up the dog. He at first kept 

the dog tied up; and, when the dog had slipped ( )(7458') 

his thong (?), he put it upon the scent (?), and the 

dog killed jackals. 

He (my grandfather) skinned the jackals; and 
my grandmothers dressed the jackals' skins ; they 
dressed them, they sewed them. 


374 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ha jhdbbisse, ba jkauken k(5ro, bin ll'ua, ba Ikilki 
ssa hi, ba jTao hi. 

He, ba Ine ddk Igdppem-ttu a jnuin, k(5ro-ka Inuin, 
an ba Ine Inwa ll'ua-ka Inuin, ll'ua ttu. 

He, ba Ine Iki 1 1 a, Igdppem-ttu a jnuin, koro-ka 
( 7459') Inuin, ( ) au ha tdtti e, Igappem-ttuwa a, a ba a 
jkuin. He tiken e, ba Ine dda Igappem-ttu a jnuin; 
au ba dda Igappem-ttu a jkuin llkbl; hd tiken e, 
ba Ine a Igappem-ttu a jnuin, be Igappem-ttu a Ine 
ll^amki a ha a jkoa, au ha luka n jkoin a, kdro-ka 
jnuin. He, n Ikoinyk Ine jkuiten, I. 

t f 

Hd tiken e, n jkoin ta ssin llnau, au ba Ine j^aua 
(7460) |kf kdro, ba Ine ta: ( ) " Aken ss'o ka, i ta hi k(5ro 
lili, ta, i Ike ta ddi li-ssa." Hd tiken e, ssi Tauki 
ssiii hi k<5ro lili, L 

/ \ r 

Ta, n jkoin Ike Ta'uki ssin bi kdro, ban ka ssin 
Iku i j^aua ba Opuondde koro. 


Taken from IX. — 237. 

L. 

IlHARA AXD TTO. 

( Given in August, 1878, by Ihan^kass'd.) 

7273 j \ Ilbdra llkuan e Ikd Ibdaka; jk'dten ttamm-i bi Inan, 
i; au ttogen Ine jkiya, be jk'e (Taui bi enen, I, au 
bi jkau bi; bi Ine jkau hi, jkau bi, jkau bi, bi Ine 

r r ~ 

jTaui bi enen, i. Hi Ine jkau llhdra, bi Ine ttamm 
bi Ina, au bi mail bi Ikau ttd ; * bi Ine mail hi 

* The Dutch name, used for ttd, appears to he " Rooi Klip " 
or "Roode Klip". A Koranna gave the name I nou for it. 


IIhIra and tto. 


375 


He again (?) killed (?) a jackal and an Otocyon 
Lalandii , he brought them (home), he skinned them. 

And he made a kaross for \gdppem-ttu , a jackals' 
kaross, while he pnt on the Otocyon kaross, the 
Otocyon skin. 

And he took the kaross to I gappem-ttu, the jackals' 
kaross, ( ) while he felt that I gappem-ttu was the (7459') 
one who had given him the dog. Therefore, he 
made a kaross for I gappem-ttu \ while he made for 
I gappem-ttu an equivalent (?) for the dog; therefore, 
he gave the kaross to I gappem-ttu, and I gappem-ttu 
also gave him a pot, while he rewarded (?) my 
grandfather for the jackals' kaross. And my grand- 
father returned home. 

Then my grandfather used to act in this manner, 
when he was boiling a jackal, he said: ( ) " Thou (7460) 
dost seem to think that we eat jackals' hearts ? for, 
we become cowards (if we do so)." Therefore, we 
did not eat the jackals' hearts. 

For, my grandfather used not to eat the jackal; 
he only boiled the jackal for his sons. 


IX.— 237. 

L. 

WHARA AXD TTO . 

Whara* is black; the people [having mixed it with (7273' 
fat] anoint their heads with it; while ttd is red, 
and the people rub their bodies with it, when they 
have pounded it; they pound it, pound it, pound it, 
they rub their bodies with it. They pound Whara, 
they anoint their heads, when they have first 


* A certain stone which is said to be hath hard and soft. 


376 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


ft * mt 

j^aui hi enen, au ttd. He, hi Ine Ikau llhdra, I, 
(7274 ? ) hi Ine ttamm hi Ina. ( ) Hi Ine ttamm kui akken 

\ tsi ^ r f 

llwei hi Ina, an hi ta, hi Ind Ikhu wa sse llkhoe. 
He, hi Ine jkui, i; au hi tdtti, hi ttamm-i hi Ina; 

t \ 

au hi ta, Ikhuka sse jkii llkhde, hi Ina sse ddi ku 
llkho )"uerriten, au Ihoakenlhoaken, au hi Ina ^au 
ttamOpua Ihoaka. 

• 9 f 

He hi Ine jkuiten, au hi Ine Ihih jkukko, au hi 

tatti, hi Ine jkuiten hi-ta llnem ; au hi *kdkka 
r / \ t 

jkukko a, jkukko sse dda hi a llhara, hin kda ttd. 
(7275') Ta, ha ll^amki ( ) lla, laiti sse lla Ikuakka ha 
llhollho ; llhollho e, ha sse ll^amki Iki ssa jkukko 
hi ; au jkukko a sse ll^amki Ikuwa ha a llhdra, 
au Jkukko wa J^oa llhara. He jkukko Ine ssd, 
Ikuwa ha llhara ; au ha ll^amki Ikudkken, Iku 
Ikiya jkukko a llhollho ; au ha dkakka jkukko a, 
jkukko koa ssan ll^amki Iki ssa ha a llhara, hin 
ttd ; td, ha a ssih lla jkukko, he ha ya'uki ssan Ine 
(7276 ? )sse jkukko, ( ) td, jkukko a ssan Ine lie ha; jkukko 
sse lla, Ika llhollho ; au jkukko wa Iki lla ha ttd. 
Hd tiken e, jkukko ka-g Ine ll^amki i; ha Ine Iki 
lla jkukko, tt6, hih llhara. 

llhara llkuan wawaiten ; hd tiken e, i Ina ka 

o D DDO/ o / 

lydrraken, i ; au hi tdtti, hi wawaiten ; hi Ine 
j^arraken. Hd tiken e, l^am-ka-jk'e ta ka, au 
Inulnutatta +kakken llna, u Ha Ikm, ha e Ikdo, au 

o / • o / d y 


IlHARA AND TTO. 


377 


pounded the ttd ; they first rub their bodies with 
ttd. And they pound II hara, they anoint their heads. 

( ) They anoint their heads very nicely, while they (7274') 
wish that their head's hair may descend (ie., grow 
long). And it becomes abundant on account of it; 
because they have anointed their heads, wishing that 
the hair may grow downwards, that their heads may 
become black with blackness, while their heads are 
not a little black. 

And they return, when they come away from the 
other man, while they return to their home ; when 
they have told the other person (the woman) about 
it, that the other person shall prepare [more] II liara 
for them, as well as ttd . For he (the man) also 
( ) goes, (his) wife will go to dress bags for him, (7275') 
bags which he will also bring to the other man ; 
while the other (man's wife) will also put aside 
II Kara for him, when the other (man) collects II liara. 

And the other (man) comes to put aside II hara for 
him ; while she [the wife of the man who brought 
the bags] also dresses (and) puts away bags for the 
other; for, she has told the other (woman) that 
the other must also bring her Whdra and ttd ; for 
she has been to the other, and she will not be 
coming (soon again) to the other, ( ) for, the other (7276') 
must go to her; the other must go to receive the 
bags, when the other takes ttd to her. Therefore, 
the other one also does so; she takes to the other 
ttd and Whdra. 

Whdra sparkles ; therefore, our heads shimmer, on 
account of it ; while they feel that they sparkle, they 
shimmer. Therefore, the Bushmen are wont to say, 
when the old women are talking there: "That man, 
he is a handsome young man, on account of his 


378 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN POLKLOBE. 


ha Ina e, hi > J au akken Ilka hi, au llhara ; hi-ta 
Ihdakenlhdaken." Hi Ind ta, " Ikao " a, " Ha Inkn 
(7277 ? ) ( ) ^aiiki akken Ilka hi; ta, ha Ina llkhoa Jkhi." 

Oho llkuah e, he llna ssi-ta J^de, hin Ine e Jkhi, 
hin Jkuiya, Oho Jkerriten llkuah e ; hin ^ahki 
ttamOpua l^kwaiya, au ssi-ta J^de, hin kda ll^kdrri, 
hin |khl. 


HOW TTO IS OBTAINED. 

(7275) Ttd llkuah llna Jkou, tto ttu; Jk'eten llkuah ka, 
tt6 ttu |ka ss'o |kou, Jk'dten Ine ta, ttd ttu, I. 
(7276) jk'eten Jhamrni hi, au ( ) Jk'eten tatti e, Ik'e Ike 
llna hi (Jgiten). Hin Ine dda llnein, i. Hd tiken e, 

t ~ 9 ~ 9 

jk'e ha ka, Jkau ttd, hi JTau hi, au hi Ine J^da ttd. 

¦ / ^ 
He hi ha Ine llnau, au hi lla ttd, hi ha Ine Ikaiten-i 

(7279) ( ) ttd ttu, au hi ta, Jgita sse j^e, hi sse lid kkwe, 

ddi Ikilki ttd, au hin tatti e, Jgiten Ike Henna ttd 

ttu. Hd tiken e, h! ha ka Ikelkem jkauoken, hi 

(7280) ,ne Jkaiten-a ttd ttu, au hi ( ) ta, Jgita sse j^e, hi 

sse lla kkwe,* ddi Ikilki ttd. He, hi Ine lla, ddi 

Ikilki ttd, ttd, ttd ; hi Ine ll^amki ddi llhara,*)* hi 

r 9 

Ine Iku llhara, hin kda ttd ; he hi Ine jkuiten. 

(7280 5 ) * ki ssah ttanttan, au Jgita ll^koen hi. 

t llhara ttu llkuah Iku ll^amki l%ara sse ss'o; tto ttuwaken 
Iku llxamki |£ara sse ss'o. 


HOW TTO IS OBTAINED. 379 

head, which is surpassingly beautiful with the 
Whartfs blackness." They say, " Handsome young 
man" to him, " His head ( ) is surpassingly (7277 ? ) 
beautiful; for, his head is like the \ kill tree."* 

It is a tree which is in our country ; it is the J khi 
tree ; it is large ; (it) is a great tree. They are not 
a little abundant in our country : the W^kerri tree and 
the j khz. 

HOW TTO IS OBTAINED. 

Ttd is in the mountain, the ttd mine ; the people (7275) 
say that the ttd mine is on the side of the mountain, 
the people say c ttd mine ' to it. 

The people are afraid of it [that is, of the sorcerers 
who live by the mine], because ( ) the people are (7276) 
aware that people are there (sorcerers). They (the 
sorcerers) make a house f there. Therefore, the 
people who intend to pound ttd, rub themselves 
when they (go to) collect ttd . And when they go 
to the ttd, they throw stones at ( ) the ttd mine, (7279) 
when they wish the sorcerers to hide themselves, 
that they may go undisturbed to work at the ttd, 
while they feel that the sorcerers dwell at the ttd 
mine. Therefore, they take up stones, they throw 
stones at the ttd mine, when they ( ) wish the (7280) 
sorcerers to hide themselves, that they may go in 
peace J to work at the ttd. And they go to work 
at the ttd, ttd, ttd . They also get Wham ; § they put 
away the II hara and the tto, and they return home. 

* The j Jchi tree hears berries; and has no thorns. 

f The narrator thinks that their houses are small holes, like (7276) 
mouseholes. 

J For, they would be ill, if the sorcerers saw them. (7280 ? ) 

§ The II hara mine [literally, " mouth" or "opening"] is in 
a different place; the ttd mine is also in a different place. 


380 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


IX.— 240. 

L. 

SIGNS MADE BY BUSHMEN IN OBDER 
TO SHOW THE DIRECTION IN WHICH 
THEY HAVE GONE. 

(Given, in April , 1879, by |han+kass'5, from his mother , l^abbi-an, 
and from personal observation .) 

(8374) Hiii Iku llnau, au Jku-kko ttaiya, jkukoken Taiiki 
In4 ta ka Jkuiten, hin Ine lkuru, # au hi Jkoa, he 
hi Ine lkdlk<5 Jho lke,| au Jkurujkuru, he Iku-ko 

(8375) ( ) llnau, ha lue Jkuiten, ha Ine ssa jk<5 hi, au 

llneih. Ha Ine llwko&i llneih, ha Ine ll^ko£n, ll^ko'en, 
ha Ine Ini Ike Iko Jkhe. He, ha Ine lla Ike, ha Ine 

(8376) n^ko^n Ike. Ha ( ) Ine ll^amki Ini Ik4 a, ha 

kan Jkhe. 

r t 

He, ha Ine kui : u Ik'e tan Toa Ikoa Ikam lla 
jkhoa-ttu e." He, ha Iku-g Ine Ikarn lla Jkhoa, au 
ha lla, ll^koen llgaue Jk'e, ti e, Jk'e Inu lla Henna 
(8377) ( ) ha Jkhoa. 

He, ha Ine llkaiten lla Jkhoa-ka Ikao ; J ha Ine 
llkou ssin, ha sse ss'o ko llwkoen, ll^koen llgaue 
llneilln^i. He, ha Ine Ini llneilln&, au llneilln&ya 
(8378) kan Jkuiten Jkh4. Ha Ine ( ) ll^koen ss'o, i; liya§ 
Ine kkoiten Ihih llneilln^i, || au M ll^koen ss'o. H4, 
M Ine kui : " llneih llkuan ddda a kan ! " He ha 

o D D 

f 

* Hi llkuan Ikuru Iho hi Inoa, au Ik'au. 
f llkuan llkenllken le Ike au ©hoken. 
t Ikao llkuan e, a jkhoa llnun ss'o ha. 

§ (itenliten llkuan kkoiten, hi-ka ku. 

|J I i llkuan Iku Juhf ss'o. 


(8374') 

(8377') 

(8378') 


GUIDING SIGNS. 


381 


IX.— 240. 

L. 

SIGNS MADE BY BUSHMEN IN ORDER TO 
SHOW IN WHICH DIRECTION THEY 
HAYE GONE. 

They (the Bushmen) are accustomed to act thus, (8374) 
when another man has gone away (and) does not 
return, they push their foot along the ground,* * * § if 
they travel away; and they place grass j* near the 
marks (they have made); and the other man ( ) (8375) 
does thus, when he returns, he comes (and) misses 
them at the house. He looks at the house, he 
looks (and) looks, he perceives the grass standing 
upright. And he goes to the grass, he looks at the 
grass. He ( ) also perceives the grass which stands (8376) 
yonder. J 

And he exclaims : " The people must have travelled 
away to the water pool there." And he goes to the 
water, while he goes, looking (and) seeking for the 
people, (to see) whether the people have gone to 
dwell at ( ) that water. (8377) 

And, he goes, ascending the water's hill ; § he sits 
upon (it), that he may, sitting, look, look seeking 
for the huts. And he perceives the huts, as the 
huts stand white yonder. He ( ) sits, looking at (8378) 
them ; the (smoke of the) fire || rises from the 
huts,^f as he sits looking. And he exclaims : " The 


* They push their foot along the ground. (8374') 

f (They) stick grass into the bushes. 

X There are four pieces of grass, at a distance from each other, ("8376') 
in the direction of the place to which the people have gone. v 

§ (It) is a hill, behind which the water is. (8377') 

|| All the fires smoke. (8378') 

The fire is outside. 


382 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(8379) 


(8380) 


(8381) 

(8382) 

(8383) 

(8384) 


Ine ui, ha Ine Ikarn lla llnein, he ha Ine Ikuiten Ikhe 

/ O / • O • 

T 

( ) lla llnein. 

He Ik'e-kuita Ine kui : "I Ilka llkuan ddoa Ike 

• o ODD 

ssa, ta, ha a ka Ikuei yua hd ttdi; ta, j^oe-ss'o-jkul 
llkuan e, ha +eima Ikhoa. Ha ssah Ikn Ikuei Iki, 

0 D / • o D 7 

r 

au ha luha Iko llnein. ( ) Ha koa ssah Iku Ikam 
sse jkhoa, e ha Iku +enna hi. Ta, u ssin ka, ha 
sse llgwi jk'ii,* au n ka, n l^ke, i tan Iku sse jkoa. 

r f f ~ r 

Uken ssin ta, ha sse llgwi jk'u, au n ka ( ) i tan 
Iku sse jkoa, i koa ki yauki +kakka ha a, ti e, i ssah 
jkoa ; ta, jkhoa e ui. He tiken e, i Ine jkoa, i." 

1 llkuan ka ll^amki Ikof Ohoken. I Ine ka, i 
llkhollkho hi, hi Ina kkerruka Ine jkuh leta, au Oh5 
lu wa-g Ine e llkou llna. He ( ) i Ine ll^a, i lla 
kan jh(5 Oho a. He, l Ine jkuru jho, au i tdtti 
i yauki sse ll^a i lla jho Oho-ko; au 1 tatti, i Iku-g 
Ine llkdaken Ikoa lla. 

o • o 

> 

He tiken e, jku-kko ka llnau, au ha Ine ( ) jkuiten 

f t 

ssa, ha Ine jko llnein. Ha Ine llwkoen, he, ha Ine 


(8380 ? ) * l^am-ka-jk'eten e ta, " llgwi jk'u," au Ihu e Ine ta, 

" verdwaal." 

(8382 J ) f llkuan liken le ha au jk'au. 

Sf llkuan tatti, n ka ssin ll^koen n jkoinya Iko. 


GUIDING SIGNS. 


383 


house must be yonder ! " And he arises, he goes 
to the house, and, returning, arrives ( ) at home. (8379) 

And the other people exclaim : u Our brother must 
be (the one who) comes yonder; for, he is the one 
who walks in this manner; for, a man of the place 
(he) is, he knows the water. He would do thus, 
when he came past (and) missed the house. ( ) He (8380) 
would come to the water which he knew. For, ye 
did say that he would lose his way,* when I said 
that we should travel away. Ye did say that he 
would lose his way, when I wished ( ) that we (8381) 
should travel away, although we had not told him 
about it that we should travel away ; for, the water 
was gone. Therefore, we travelled away on account 
of it." 

( ) We are used also to reverse branches.f We (8382) 
thus place them, their green top is underneath, while 
the stump of the branch is uppermost. And ( ) (8383) 
we again, we go yonder to place that branch. And 
we draw our foot along the ground (making a mark), 
while we feel that we shall not again go to place 
another branch ; because we altogether travel away 4 

Therefore, the other man is wont to do thus, 
when he ( ) returns home (and) misses the house. (8384) 


* The Bushmen are those who say, II gwi | Jc'u, while the white (8380') 
men are those who say, "verdwaal" ( 'i.e . verdwalen , "to lose 
one's way"). 

f Pierce it into the ground. (8382 ? ) 

I feel that I used to see my grandfather reverse (branches). 

X Pour branches (and sometimes five) are said to be used; the (8383 5 ) 
first is placed opposite to the house, the next about fifty yards 
distant, the next a little further than that distance, the next 
rather more than double the previous distance, and, then, no 
At the last stick, the foot is drawn along the ground in 


more. 


the direction of the place to which they go, from the last stick ; 
which leans in the same direction. 


384 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


Ini Oho; he, ha Ine kui: " Ik'e llkuan >* * * § (5a Ikoa 
jkhoa-ttu e, ta, hi e, hi Iko jkhe Jh<5a, au ti e jkhoa 
(8385) ss'6 hi. N sse ( ) jk'ai jkhoa, n ssin lla, ll^koen 
llg&ue jk'e jnoa, au jkhoa, au ti e, hi ss'o llan lkua # 
hi, hin Ine j^uj^u Ihin hi." He, M Ine Ikam lla 
jkhoa, ha Ine jk'ai lla jkhoa. He, ha Ine lla ll^koen 
(8386) ( ) jkhoa, ha Ine Ini jk'e jnoa-ka jguara, ha Ine 
Ike-i hi,f ha Ine jgauoken hi, jgauoken ki Jke lla 
hi au llnem. 


A BUSHMAN, BECOMING FAINT FROM 
THE SUN'S HEAT WHEN RETURNING 
HOME, THROWS EARTH INTO THE 
AIR, SO THAT THOSE AT HOME 
MAY SEE THE DUST AND COME TO 
HELP HIM* 

( Given in November , 1878, by |han+kass'o, from his mother , 
l^abbi-an, and from personal observation.') 


(7961) 

(7962) 


(7963) 


f f / 

jkui llkuan ka llnau, ha ggauwa llnem, ha llnau, 
au ( ) ha ta, ti e, ha yauki ttaii, ha sse Ine lie 
llnem, ha Ine IlkoH, au ha ka, llnem-ta jk'e sse 
Ini jk'au. 

He jkui a, ha jgoa-i,§ jkwajkwai jkhe, ha jgoa-i, 
au ha ta, ti e, Mkom ya yaiiki ( ) ttamOpua ta li, 


(8385') 

(8386') 

(7961') 

(7962') 


* I ^kua llkuan |ku Ibarra; Ik.uaaken |kn Ibarra, lien ssin he ti. 

f jk'e jnoa-ka jguara e lla. 

J Ikuken Iku e, jkui ta llkou, a. 

§ jkui |ha llkuan e; au ha tatti e, gwaiya ya'uki jkui'ta; ta, 
ha Iku llwkoen, ti e, jk'e-ta-kuwa Iku Ikuita. 


SIGNALLING WITH DUST. 


385 


He looks (about), and he espies a branch; and he 
exclaims: " The folk must have travelled away to 
that little pool, for, this is why they have reversed 
(a branch), pointing in the direction of the place 
where the water is. I will ( ) go down(?) to the (8385) 
water, that I may go to look for the people's foot- 
prints at the water, at the place to which they 
seem to have gone to make a house,* (from which) 
they go to the water." And he goes to the water, 
he goes down (?) to the water. And he goes to 
look at ( ) the water, he espies the people's foot- (8386) 
path, he takes it,f he follows it, follows it along 
to the house. 


A BUSHMAN, BECOMING FAINT FROM 
THE SUN'S HEAT WHEN RETURNING 
HOME, THROWS EARTH INTO THE 
AIR, SO THAT THOSE AT HOME 
MAY SEE THE DUST AND COME TO 
HELP HIM.* 

A man is wont, when returning home, when ( )(7961) 
he feels as if he should not reach home, he throws (7962) 
up earth (into the air), because he wishes that the 
people at home may perceive the dust. 

And the person who is looking out,§ standing 
up to look out, — because she feels that the sun is 
not ( ) a little hot, — she stands up, she looks (7963) 


* Seeking for food (to dig np) is one thing; making a house is (8385') 
different : "to dwell at a place." 

f The people's footpath is that which goes along. (8386') 

t Dying is that on account of which a person throws up earth (7961') 
(into the air). 

§ (It) is the man's wife; while she feels that (her) husband (7962') 
has not returned; for, she sees that all the (other) people have 
returned home. 


2c 


386 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


f f i, 

ha Ine jkwajkwai jkhe, ha Ine jgoa-i. * * * § He, M 
llnau, ha jgoa-a jkhe, ha Ine Ini jk'au, ha Ine kui : 
u jkui tan a, llkou llna ! " 

He jk'e Ine jku^e, jku^e Ihin toukenf llnem, an 
(7964) hi koa : ( ) u Ha li Ike e, ha llkou, L TJken sse 
ahtau jku^e lie, u sse 1 1 a, arruko a ha a jkhoa, ta, 
ha li e; llkoih e Ikhi ha; ha lih e; u sse arruko 
I la, a ha a, jkhoa." Au jk'e tatti, jk ? e-ta-kuwa Ike 
(7965) ( ) Iku jku^e Ikam Ha jkui. Hi Ine lla, kkebhij 
kkuerre Ikui, au Ikhoa. 

He, ha Ine +karii©pua ssueh, § hh6 ui I ho a ^u ; 
ta, Ilkoin-ta Iho Ik6 Iku ttan llga. 


(7966) jk'e-ta-lkagen-ka ddi-ddi ^auki e, ta, jk'e-ta- 

tuken-ka ddi-ddi Iku e. 

^ / / 

Hi llkuan tatti e, hi Iku^e || tchuen, [ku^e wai ; 
(7967) he hi Ine llnau, hi tatti ( ) e, hi llk'uwa, au 


(7963') 


(7965') 


(7966') 

(7967') 

(7966') 


* Au ha tatti e, Imi^owa a ka : " jkoeya, a kan >*auki ta 
jkwajkwai jkhe, a ssin jgoa llga'ue lha. Ilkomyan tuko ^auki 
ta Ikhelkhe, ta, llkoih Iku ssin |ku n, au n ttai ssa, au ti e ; 
u Jgaue >*au Iku ssin jnaunko e, llkoih ssin Iku Iku n." 

f Au hi tatti, hi l^kwaiya. 

J Kebbi (with the raised tone) means "to lift up the head 
to look over"; kebbi , "to pour (as water)." 

§ Hah Iku ta, au ha |r. 

|1 llkuan llnaua wai; jku£e wai a i |%a ha. Wai a ttulya, 
hi |ne ta: ttul-ssa h ( ) {pi. ttuitenttuiten-ssa). Wai a >* a uki 
ttuiya, hi |ne ta: wai jkoujkou, a. 

jk'S e Iglya llkoih, hih e Jkuxe wai, e Jkoujkouiika; hi Ine 
jkuxe hi, llkhoe jho hi au llko'in, he wai Ine kkwakken, i. 
He, hi Ine Iki jhah wai, llkai ki Ikam lla wai, au llnem. 


SIGNALLING WITH DUST. 


387 


around.* And, as slie stands looking around, she 
perceives the dust, she exclaims: "A person seems 
to be throwing up earth there ! " 

And the people run, run out f of the house, 
exclaiming: ( ) u His heart is that on account of (7964) 
which he throws up earth. Ye must run quickly, 
that ye may go to give him water quickly ; for, 

(it) is his heart ; the sun is killing him ; (it) is 
his heart; ye must quickly go to give him water." 

While the people feel that all the people ( ) run (7965) 
to the man. They go, pouring (water), to cool the 
man with water. 

And he first sits up,J to remove the darkness from 
his face ; for, the sun's darkness resembles night. 


These are not women's doings; for, men's doings (7966) 
they are. 

They (the Bushmen) feel that they chase § things, 
chase the springbok; and it happens thus when ( ) (7967) 
they are tired by running, the sun is killing them 


* While she feels that the old man (her father) was the one 
who said: "My child ! (?) thou art not standing up that thou 
mightst look around seeking for (thy) husband. The sun is 
really (?) very hot, for it did scorch me as I walked hither; as 
if it were not still morning, the sun did scorch me." 

f While they feel that they are numerous. 

J He was lying down, on account of his heart. 

§ (To) run after a (wounded) springbok, to run after a springbok 
which we have shot. A wounded springbok they call : "a wounded 
thing (?)." ( ) A springbok, which is not wounded, they call: 

"a living springbok." 

People who are strong to bear the sun('s heat), they are those 
who chase the living {i.e. unwounded) springbok ; they run after 
them through the sun, and the springbok vomit on account of it. 


(7963 r 


(7965') 

(7966') 

(7967') 

(7966') 


And they turn 
the house. 


the springbok, chasing, take the springbok to 


388 


SPECIMENS OE BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


f ~ 

Iku^e, llkoinya Ine Ikhi hi, au hi llk'uwa. Hd e, 

hi Ine lla l^6aken, au llk'u ll^amki e. !lk'u-g Ine 

Ihin, he hi Ine kkuerre. Hd e, hi Ine lla l;£<5aken, 

(7968) I; an hi ka lla ( ) kkuerre, au hi ssip. Jhamma ta 

II ; au hi tatti, hi jnauhko jkhuka. He ti hi h e, 

hi Ine lla l^6aken, I; au hi yauki Ine tan, hi sse 
9 ~ 
lie llneih; hd tiken e, hi Ine lla ssuen, I; hi Ine 

(7969) llkou; llkcai ( ) llnem-ta Ik'e, au hi ta llnem-ta Ik'e 

ya sse Ini |k'au. 


IX.— 253. 
DEATH. 


( Given in January , 1876, in the Kaikop dialect, by Diajkw|in.) . 


(5776) 

(5777) 

(5778) 

(5779) 


Ikuatten kkan llnau, Hike a I li ttatten Iku'i a, 
ha llwketen a, Ikuatten ll^am ttatten jkui a; o 
Ikuattaken tta Ilka ti e, i II ( ) Ikhe j^uonnl. He 
tiken e, Ikuatten ttatten Iku'i, I. Ta, Ikuatten Iki 
ieil-na ll^ke a i Ikuken a. Ikuattaken hkakka Ik'e- 

o o D o • 

kkuiten e yauki ( ) +eh-na, ti e, i Ikuka. 

He tiken e, Ik'e ka llnau, he Ina Ikuatten, o Ikuatta 

— O 1 • ' — 030/ 03 


Jkui, he kii-kku, he Iwke : " ll^koenyyii, tss'a ddin 
a, Ikuatten jkui a? I kkan ( ) da sse ttu kkumm; 
ta, Ikuatten ttatten Iku'i. Ti e yauki aken, hih 

* o d o o • o 7 

r * r 9 ~ f f 

llkhoa ddi ttinya, ti e Ibarra; ta, Ikuatten *kakka 

/V f r „ 

hi, ti e, ti jkojkoin ddi ttinya, ti e Ibarra." 


DEATH. 


389 


when they are tired. Then, they go staggering 
along, also (from) fatigue. The fatigue goes out, 
and they become cool. Then, they go staggering 
along, while they go along ( ) becoming cool, when (7968) 
they were previously hot ; while they feel that they 
still perspire. Therefore, they go along staggering, 
while they do not feel as if they should reach home ; 
therefore, they go to sit down ; they throw up earth 
(into the air); throw up earth for ( ) the people (7969) 
at home, while they wish that the people at home 
may perceive the dust. 


IX.— 253. 

L. 

DEATH. 

The star does in this manner, at the time when (5776) 
our heart falls down, that is the time when the star 
also falls down; while the star feels that our heart 
( ) falls over.* Therefore, the star falls down on (5777) 
account of it. For the stars know the time at which 
we die. The star tells the other people who do not 
( ) know that we have died. (5778) 

Therefore, the people act thus, when they have 
seen a star, when a star has fallen down, they say : 

" Behold ye! Why is it that the star falls down? 

We ( ) shall hear news; for a star falls down. (5779) 
Something which is not good appears to have 
occurred at another place ; for the star tells us, that 
a bad thing has happened at another place." 


* As when something which has been standing upright, falls (5777 J ) 
over on to its side. 


390 SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 

(5780) ( ) jhln, ha llnau, 6 Ikuatta ssih jkoa, ha sse, ha 

llnau, ha llkhou llkau hhda i, ha llkerri.* jk'e 

ku-kku, he l^ke: "TJken Tau tda Ihm, o Ikuatten 
(o781) ssiB jkui? ( ) Han llkuan ssan +kakka hi, ti e, 
f-ka jkui Ikuka." jk'e ku-kku, he l^ke, jhln kkan 
Ta'uki e tss'a a ddau-ddau, ta, ha ^auki ka ha sse 
(5782) sse i llnem, o ( ) ha ^a +eh-na ; ta, ti e, ha 

r ^ f 

+eh-na, I, he e, ha ssa l-ta llnem, i; o han ka, 
ha sse ssa l^keya hi a, ti e, i-ka jkui Ikuka. 
(5783) He tiken e, ( ) mdma-ggu ka ssih llnau, he tt6a 
jhln, o jhinya llkhou llkau ho I la ssi, he ku-kku, 

_ t t , « 

he l^ke : "A kan ka, a sse I la jkumm jkhe, +ka 

(5784) jka ( ) tt^i, ta, h +eh-na, ti e, a llkuah ssan 
tkakka ke ; " o mama-gguken Iwke, ti e, kkumm 
a, ha ssan kkakka, ha Iku sse le l^ki-ta Ikhwa, ti 
(5785) e, lima Ikuatten jkhe, llkoe ta ( ) jkhwa, L He 
tiken e, hd-ka ku-kkummi sse I la le he. Ta, mdma- 
ggu Tauki +kauwa he sse ttu kkumm a, ha ssan 
(5786) ikakka; ta, he +eh-na, ti e, jhin llnau, ( ) liwke 
a, jkui Ikuken a, ha ll^keten a, ha ssa i, a, hah 
Fkakka hi a, ti e, jkui Ikuka. Ta, mama-ggu Iki 


(5780') * yhlc !. or ydaJcl is the bird's cry, which it repeats twice. 


DEATH. 


391 


( ) The hammerkop* acts in this manner, when (5780) 
a star has fallen, it comes; when it flies oyer us, it 
cries, t The people say: u Did ye not hear the 
hammerkop, when the star fell? ( ) It came to tell (5781) 
us that our person is dead." The people speak, 
they say that the hammerkop is not a thing which 
deceives, for it would not come to our home, if ( )(5782) 
it did not know; for, when it knows, then it comes 
to our home ; because it intends to come and tell 
us about it, namely, that our person has died. 

Therefore, ( ) mother and the others used, — if they (5783) 
heard a hammerkop, when it flew, going over us, — 
to say: " Do thou go (and) plunge in, * * ( ) # , (5784) 
for I know that which thou earnest to tell me " ; 
while mother and the others said that the story, 
which it came to tell, should go into the Orange 
River's water, where the stars stand in ( ) the water. (5785) 
That is the place where its stories should go in. 

For mother and the others did not want to hear 
the story which it came to tell ; for they knew 
that the hammerkop does in this manner ( ) at the (5786) 
time when a man dies, that is the time at which 
it comes to us, it tells us about it, that the man 
has died. For, mother and the others used to say, 

* Of this bird, the Scopus umbretta , or HammerTcop , the following 
description is given in " The Birds of South Africa " by E. L. Layard, 

Cape Town, 1867, p. 312. 

' The " Hammerkop " (literally, Hammerhead) is found throughout 
the colony, and all the way to the Zambezi, frequenting ponds, 
marshes, rivers, and lakes. It is a strange, weird bird, flitting 
about with great activity in the dusk of the evening, and preying 
upon frogs, small fish, &c. At times, when two or three are 
feeding in the same small pool, they will execute a singular dance, 
skipping round one another, opening and closing their wings, and 
performing strange antics.' 

f ydh ! or ydah ! is the bird's cry, which it repeats twice. 


(5780') 


392 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5787) kkan Iwke, Jhin e tss'a a, Ikil llna Jkhwa a, ( ) i 
llwkoen tchueh-ta-ku a. He tiken e, ha +eh-na, 
ti e dda, I; o hah tta Ilka ti e, ha Ikil llna Jkhwa 
(5788) a, ha llkho Jk'ou, iten ll^koen tchuen-ka-kku ( ) 
a; tchuen e llna Jgwa^u, iten llwkoen lie, o Jkhwa, 
o l Jkau Jkhe, Jkhwa ttii J^au. Iten li^koen, 
tchuen- ta-kku, Ikualkuattaken llkho litenliten e 
llkallka Jkhe. 

(5789) ( ) Iten llnau llga e, iten llnau Jkukko kkan ttai 

Juha, iten ilwkoen ha, o ha ttai llkhoe h(5a Jkhwa. 
Tiken Ikil llkho llkuonna e, o ha ttai llna Ikhwa. 

o o — / —3 • 

(5790) Iten Ikil llwkben ( ) +ka ha. Tiken Ikii llkho 

llkuonna a, i ll^kben, hah ttai I la a. He tiken 

e, mama-ggu l^ke, ti e, Jhin llnau, ha Ina, jkui a 
Ikuka, o Jkhwa, ha llnau, llkhwetyah kki ssah d, 

r ° 

(5791) ( ) ha llnau, ha leh-na, ti e, i e Ike-kko e, ha 
llkhou Ihin ha Jkhwa, ha llkhou Ikam lie i, o hah 
ka, ha sse I la Ikakka hi a, ti e, l-ka Jkui Ikuka. 

(5792) He ko ( ) Ikuattaken Ikii e, +kakka hi a, o i 

yauki ttu kkuniih ; ta, he Ikii e, Ikakka hi a, he, 
i-g Ine llnau, i ssih ttoa Jhin, iten Ine llj^am Ini 
(5793) Ikuatten, iten Ine Ikii Jhau ( ) iten ttui kkumrn, 
o i amm mmaii, i Ini he ; he i Ine ttui kkumm, i ; 
o hd ssih Ikuei Ikue, he ddi, o i. 

Ta, mama-ggu Iki tkAkka ssi a, ti e, Jkhwi-lkagen 
(5794) e Jkhwa ( ) ll^au he; he Jkhwi-lkakah IlnA ha 
Jkhwa, he Jkhwa ll^auwa he; Jkhwi-lkagen e, jkhwa 
luaitye. Jkhwdgen Ine bbmten Ikhi he ; hih Ine 
(5795) ddi Ikuatten, o he ( ) lkw|i Iki J^uoiiniya. Hih 
Ine Ikii ddi Ikuatti. Ta, mama-ggu Iki tkAkka ssi- 
ssi a, ti e, Jkuila llnau, Jkhwa ll^auwa ha, hah 


BEATS. 


393 


that the hammerkop is a thing which lives at that 
water in which ( ) we see all things. Therefore, (5787) 
it knows what has happened ; while it is aware 
that it lives at the water which is like a pool, in 
which we see all things; ( ) the things which are (5788) 
in the sky we see in the water, while we stand by 
the water's edge. We see all things, the stars look 
like fires which burn. 

( ) When it is night, when another man walks (5789) 
across, we see him, as he walks passing the water. 

It seems as if it were noonday, when he walks by 
the water. We see him ( ) clearly. The place (5790) 
seems as if it were midday as we see him walking 
along. Therefore, mother and the others said, that, 
when the hammerkop has espied in the water 
a person who has died, even though it be at a 
distance, ( ) when it knows that (he) is our relative, (5791) 
it flies away from this water, it flies to us, because 
it intends to go to tell us about it, that our relative 
has died. (It) and ( ) the star are those who tell (5792) 
us about it when we have not heard the news; for 
they are those who tell us about it, and when we 
have heard the hammerkop, we also perceive the 
star, we afterwards ( ) hear the news, when we (5793) 
have just perceived them ; and we hear the news, 
when they have acted in this manner towards us. 

For, mother and the others used to tell us about 
it, that girls are those whom the Rain ( ) carries (5794) 
off; and the girls remain at that water, to which 
the Rain had taken them, girls with whom the 
Rain is angry. The Rain lightens, killing them ; 
they become stars, while their ( ) appearance has (5795) 
been changed. They become stars. For, mother and 
the others used to tell us about it, that a girl, 


394 


SPECIMENS OP BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5796) cldi kui llkho Oho ( ) jkweiten-ttu * e l^kagen 
llkhde jkhe jkhwa. 

I e yaiiki 4eh-na, iten kie sse llnau, 6 I Ina he, 
6 he llkhde jkhe jkhwa, o I llwkoen, ti e, he-ka 

(5797) aken Ikuei-u, I; ( ) iten ku-klmi, iten +i, ( n kkan 

kan I la Ik ahi Oho Ikweiten-ttu, e kie llkh<5e Ikhe 

o • o — • 

jkhwa. Ta, he yauki ttamsse aken.' Mama-gguken 
(5798) +kakka ssi-ssi a, ti e, ( ) Oho jkweiten-ttu Iku 
llnau, o ha llwkoen, ti e, ssi Ikam I la ha, hah Iku 
llgwi-ssih jkhwa llkaie. Iten Ine ssin ka, l 4i, 4 ©ho 
(5799) jkweiten-ttu e ( ) ssin jkhi, ti e a, he ka dde ? 

Tss'a ddih a, n yauki Ini he a, o ti e, he llkuan 

ssin Iku Ikhe, ti e a? 5 Hah Iku ttchdaken llkh<5e- 

' 7 , =3 ° 

(5800) ssin jkhwa, o ha ( ) Ilwkoen, ti e, i Ikam lla ha; 
iten yauki sse Ini ha, ta, ha Iku le jkhwa. 

He tiken e, m&ma-ggu l^keya ssi a, ssi kkoo 
(5801) yauki sse Ikam lie Oho jkweiten-ttu ( ) e ssi 
1 1 ©keen he, hih llkhde jkhe jkhwa, o ssi ki llwkoen, 
he-ka aken. Ta, jkhwi-lkagen e jkhwa thauwa, he 
(5802) e, he llkho Ohoken jkaiiiten-tu; ( ) ta, jkhwa-ka 
Ikagen Ikii e, he ssi Iku ll^koen, ^u ttui he. 
Ta, ssi IS^am I Ike I Ike he, ti e, he dda he. 

(5803) He tiken e, mama-ggu llnau, h^-ka ( ) l^am-ka- 
laityi, hih yaiiki ka he sse a he sse ttai-a ttin, o 
jkhwa kkau-a ssa; ta, he Iki jhammi, ti e, jkhwa 
(5804) ll^am ka jkhwa sse bbaiten Ikha he. ( ) Ta, Jkhwa 
Iki Iku e, tss'a a Ikii llnau, ha kkau jkhe he ti, 

* ttamme-an £oa labbe-ttu, ban a hha oa +kakka mama a, 
6 ©ho jkweiten-ttu e Iwkagen likhoe jkhe jkhwa, han Iwkeya 
mama a, ti e, mama llkhoa kan +i, mama yau sse ll%am ddi 
(57 96 J ) Oho Jkweiten-ttu, 6 ( ) mama yauki jhammi jkhwa. 



DEATH. 


395 


when the Eain has carried her off, becomes like ( ) (5796) 
a flower * which grows in the water. 

We who do not know are apt (?) to do thus when 
we perceive them, as they stand in the water, 
when we see that they are so beautiful; ( ) we (5797) 
think, ' I will go (and) take the flowers which are 
standing in the water. For they are not a little 
beautiful.' Mother and the others said to us about 
it, that ( ) the flower — when it saw that we went (5798) 
towards it, — would disappear in the water. We 
should think, c The flowers which ( ) were standing (5799) 
here, where are they ? Why is it that I do not 
perceive them at the place where they stood, here?' 

It would disappear in the water, when it ( ) saw (5800) 
that we went towards it; we should not perceive it, 
for it would go into the water. 

Therefore, mother and the others said to us about 
it, that we ought not to go to the flowers ( ) which (5801) 
we see standing in the water, even if we see their 
beauty. For, they are girls whom the Eain has 
taken away, they resemble flowers; ( ) for (they) (5802) 
are the water's wives, and we look at them, leaving 
them alone. For we (should) also be like them (in) 
what they do. 

Therefore, mother and the others do in this manner 
with regard to their ( ) Bushman women, they are (5803) 
not willing to allow them to walk about, when the 
Eain comes ; for they are afraid that the Eain also 
intends, lightening, to kill them. ( ) For the Eain (5804) 
is a thing which does in this manner when it rains 

* ^Jcamme-dn 1 s mother, I albe-ttfo, was the one who formerly told (5795' 
mamma about the flower which grows in the water ; she said to 
mamma about it, that mamma seemed to think that she would not 
also become a flower, if ( ) she did not fear the Rain. (5796' 


396 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 



han Iku Ikhou i l^kwai, kail iku bbaiten Iki Ihin, 
(5805) o ti e, ha kkah ( ) kkau jkhe he. Han Iku kan 
bbaiten IkhI i, o he ti ; he tiken e, mama-ggu 
tkakka ssi a, ssi sse llnau, jkhwa kkau-a lid I la o 

(5806) ssi, ssi ( ) ttai llkhde hhda Ikhwa, ssi sse llnau, ssi 

llwkoen ti e, Ikhwa bbaiten, o jgwa^il, ssi sse 
dro-ko jkwe lie, ti e, jkhwa bbaiten, i; jkhwa a 
(5807) ssih ka, ha ( ) j^e-a ko Ikha ssi. Ha sse llnau, 
(o) ha jkweita ki ssih ggauwa ssi, ssi sse jkwe lie, 
ssi sse ll^koen Ski j^uohniya ssi a, ha jkweiten; 
(5808) ta, ssi ( ) tsa^au Iki il^aiii -t^i I Ike II key a ha 
jkweiten. He tiken e, ti ll^am ywah ha jhaihmi 
ssi tsa^au, o hail tta Ilka ti e, i Iku. oroko jkwe 

(5809) lla ha. He tiken e, ha Ine ( ) llkou hho i, i; 

o hail tta Ilka ti e, ha Iki j>*uerriten i tsa^au e +^i 
juhi-ssih ha. He tiken e, ha jkhai Ihih i, i ; hah 

r 

llaii kan ssueii Ik'au, o ha yauki Ikha i. 

o • / 


THE RELATIONS OF WIND, MOON, AND 
CLOUD TO HUMAN BEINGS AFTER 
DEATH. 

( Given in August, 1875, in the Katlcop dialect, ly Diajkwain, who 
heard it from his parents and observed it himself) 

(5147) jkhwe ttaii llnau, i Ikuken, i-ka I kh we -ten tehui ; 

ta, i e jkui, i Iki Jkhwe ; iten ka Ikuagen, o i Ikuka. 
(5148) He tiken e, jkhwe ka llnau, ( ) i Ikuka, jkhwe ddi 
jk'au, o ha ka, ha sse tchu, hho ttii, i jnoa, e, 
i ssih ttai-a ttin, i ; o iten yauki Inaunkko tte Ika, 


DEATH. 


397 


here, it smells our scent, . it lightens out of the 
place where it ( ) rains. It lightens, killing us at (5805) 
this place; therefore, mother and the others told us 
about it, that when the Eain falls upon us (and) 
we ( ) walk passing through the Rain, if we see (5806) 
that the Rain lightens in the sky we must quickly 
look towards the place where the Rain lightens; 
the Rain, which intended ( ) to kill us by stealth. (5807) 
It will do in this manner, even if its thunderbolts # 
have come near us, (if) we look towards (the place 
where it has lightened), we look, making its thunder- 
bolts turn back from us ; for our ( ) eye also shines (5808) 
like its thunderbolts. Therefore, it also appears to 
fear our eye, when it feels that we quickly look 
towards it. Therefore, it ( ) passes over us on (5809) 
account of it; while it feels that it respects our 
eye which shines upon it. Therefore, it goes over 
us; it goes to sit on the ground yonder, while it 
does not kill us. 


THE RELATIONS OF WIND, MOON, AND 
CLOUD TO HUMAN BEINGS AFTER 
DEATH. 

The wind does thus when we die, our (own) wind (5147) 
blows; for we, who are human beings, we possess 
wind ; we make clouds, when we die. Therefore, 
the wind does thus when ( ) we die, the wind (5148) 
makes dust, because it intends to blow, taking 
away our footprints, with which we had walked 
about while we still had nothing the matter with 

* Black, pointed, shining stones, which only come from the (5807 J 
sky when it lightens. They disturb the ground where they fall. 

They are called J khwu Ykweiten (the Bain's thunderbolts). 


398 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


(5149) he, i jnoan e, ( ) jkhwe ka ha tchu hho ttu he, 
he ka ssan 4ka ta. Ta, ti ssan llkho, i Inaunkko 

— D / D / • 

f ^ f f f 

jk'auwa. He tiken e, jkhwe ka ha tchu, Ikam ttu, 
1 Inoa, L 

(5150) ( ) He tiken e, l jkwa * llnau, i ikuken, hin 

juhi-ssin jgwa^ii ; hih Ikain, Juhi-ssho jgwa^u, o 
i Ikuka. 

(5151) He tiken e, mama ka ssih llnau, ( ) jkajkarro 
wa tten ssa, jkajkarro wa jkorro [khe. Mama 
ku-kku, ha Iwke : " jkajkarro kail Ikammaihya jk'e 

(5152) e Ikuka. f Ta, u Iku e, ll^koen, ti e, ( ) ha Ikuei 
Ikuan, tta, I ; he ha jkorro tta, o han tta Ilka ti e, 
ha Ikammam Ikha ha, o Ik'e e Ikuka. He tiken 

3 ) r - O 

(5153) e, ( ) ha jkorro tta, i. Hah Tauki e Ilk' aura ; ta, 
ha Iku e Ilwk6aken-ka Ikalkarro. liken ka, u sse 
ttu kkukim, o Ikalkarro Ikuei Ikuan, tta. Ikuiten 

(5154) ( ) I Ikuan a Ikuka, ha Jkajkarro Ikammaihya ha. 
He t iken e, u I Ikuan ka, u ssan ttu, ti e, kie dda, 
o jkajkarro Ikuei u." 


(5155) 

(5156) 

(5150'; 


I ( ) Ina-lkhu, hin kie ssih llkho Ikuagen, o i 
Ikuka, ti e, i Ikuei ydken Ikuagen, i. He tchuehyan 
e, Ikwaiya Ikuagen ; ( ) he, l kan 41, Ikuagen e. 


* Mama han kan £kakka ke, 1 llnau, i llgaua ssih, o tiken 
yauki tte ko, tta li, o tiken ttamsse tta li, iten Ine tta, ti e, 
llkuanna ttan, ha tta |i. Iten Ine ku-kkui, iten 4T, ' Akke 
(5151') A amm llgaua Ikho ssih Oho ; ta, ( ) llk'oih tsa^au yauki 
ttamsse tta li ; h sse amm llgaua ssin.' Iten Ikuagen, i 
llnuah-ah Ihin; 6 ti e, i llgaua ssih, o tiken yauki tta li. He 
tiken e, i Ikuagen, l. Ta, ti e, llkuanna kwokkwan e, i, hin 
e, i llgaua ssih, i. 

f The narrator says that his mother heard this from her own 
mother. 


DEATH. 


399 


us; and our footprints, which ( ) the wind intends (5149) 
to blow away, would (otherwise still) lie plainly 
visible. For, the thing would seem as if we still 
lived. Therefore, the wind intends to blow, taking 
away our footprints. 

( ) And, our gall,* when we die, sits in the sky ; (5150) 
it sits green in the sky, when we are dead. 

Therefore, mother was wont to do thus when ( ) (5151) 
the moon lying down came, (when) the moon stood 
hollow. Mother spoke, she said : u The moon is 
carrying people who are dead. For, ye are those 
who see that ( ) it lies in this manner ; and it lies (5152) 
hollow, because it is killing itself (by) carrying 
people who are dead. This is why ( ) it lies (5153) 
hollow. It is not a II Kcmru\ for, it is a moon of 
badness (?).*)* Ye may (expect to) hear something, 
when the moon lies in this manner. A person ( ) (5154) 
is the one who has died, he whom the moon carries. 
Therefore, ye may (expect to) hear what has 
happened, when the moon is like this." 

( ) The hair of our head will resemble clouds, (5155) 
when we die, when we in this manner make clouds. 

These things are those which resemble clouds; ( ) (5156) 
and we think that (they) are clouds. We, who do 


* Mother, she used to tell me, that it (thus) happens to us 
if we sit in the shade when the place is not particularly warm, 
when it is (only) moderately warm, (and) we feel that the summer 
seems as if it would he hot. ¥e think: 'Allow me to sit for 
a little in the shade under the bush ; for ( ) the sun's eye is 
not a little hot ; I will sit a little while in the shade ; ' (then) 
we make clouds; our liver goes out from the place where we are 
sitting in the shade, if the place is not hot. Therefore, we make 
clouds on account of it. For, when it is really summer, then we 
(may) sit in the shade. 

f Possibly, " of threatening." 


(5150') 

(5151') 


400 


SPECIMENS OF BUSHMAN FOLKLORE. 


I e )Vuki 4eh-na, ften c Ikuei-dd&ken +1, ti e, 

. / O o o / / 

t 4, tr 

Ikuagen e. I e 4eh-na, iten llnau, I ll^koenya, ti 
( 5157 ) e, he Ikuei-u, i, ( ) iten 4en-na, ti e, jkui-ka 
Ikuagen e; ha Ina-lkhu e. 1 e 4en-na, iten e 
Ikuei kkui, iten 41 ; o iten tta, Ilka ti e, i Iki 
( 5158 ) mmu 4enh, Ikuagen, ( ) ti e, Ikuagen Ikuei ^dken, 
Ikuagen, L 


DEATH. 


401 


not know, we are those who think in this manner, 
that (they) are clouds. We, who know, when we 
see that they are like this, ( ) we know that (they) (5157) 
are a person's clouds; (that they) are the hair of 
his head. We, who know, we are those who think 
thus, while we feel that we seeing recognize the 
clouds, ( ) how the clouds do in this manner form (5158) 
themselves. 




jnanni, Tamrae, luma, and Da, 



APPENDIX. 


A PEW (KIIX TEXTS. 


404 


APPENDIX. 


I. \%uL 

THE DOINGS OF IZUE ARE MANY. 

O 

( Given 18 th March , 1880, by Jnanni.) 

(9402') l^ue taba ti +khi; ta Ikua uwa Ine-d, ta 4khl; 
ta m ba ba Karu ti Jkoa me I^u4 taba, ta 
taba ti +khl. 


VARIOUS TRANSFORMATIONS OF IZUE. 

1. IZUE AS INAZANE. 

o • 

( Given in March and April, 1880, by Inanni, from his paternal 
grandfather, Karu.) 

(9348 ') Ikam ti Igi, l^u 6 ti e Jna^ane; tsaba ti min l^ud; 
I^n4 e jna^ane. Ikam ti 4nau, l^ue ti e l;£ud; ta 
ti shu, td ti tsd. Igu Ini, ta l^ue shu, ti tsa ; 
kud-ssin ti dzbo ; ta Ikam Igi, ta l^ud e Ina^ane 
tanki, Jna^ane Inu Ine lla, d Ikan. Ta Igu Im, l^ud 
Ikua e Jkah, ta e l;£ud, ta shii. 


2. FURTHER CHANGES OF FORM. 

(9381) Ikam Igi, ta l^ud e dui; # ta Ikam +na'u, ta l^ue 
(9382) e Hama, ta shu; ta Ikam Igi, ta l^ud e l;£ud, ( ) 
ta lu Jnuerre tanki, ta e shao ; f ta Ikam Inaii, 


(9876') 

(9382') 


f 

* Dui go dzhao ; ha Ine-ssin Ikan ; Ikam tanki, ha Ine-ssin 
Jnumma, ha Ine-ssin ti Jga. 

f Shad e Jkah Inu +ga-n, llkellkeya Jkuni. 




1 . 



as a tree by day, and himself by night, 2. 'x^ tui 

3, >x^ d&a. hre 0 4. lx%6 tchii. Ixwe** 

tnanm, March f 1880. 


. 

. 














* 


















1. as j ndxane, yd l n&xam, ground Indxam. 

2. The place at which went into the earth when he became 

a Xn&yane . 

3. A spot where water had been. 


ittami, Sept* P 1880 . 



1 . 


1. I X ue. 

( \ x uJ \ \mii taima. 
\ \xue*8 little bow, 
3, i kiiru, quiver. 


4. j ndxane, which grew out of his teeth 
g ( $ne\nbbbi \yu'ia*ih. 

\ wood pigeon's feathers. 

I nanni, March 1st, 1880. 


TRANSLATION OF jKUN TEXTS. 


405 


THE DOINGS OF IZUE ARE MANY. 

o 

The works of I yiie are many, and were not one, (9402') 
but many; and my father's father, Karu , told me 
about doings, for I works are numerous. 


YARIOUS TRANSFORMATIONS OF I2UE. 

1. IZUE AS INAZANE. 

o • 

(When) the sun rose, I %ue was \ nayane\ the birds (9348') 
ate I %ue] \%ue was \ nayane. The sun set, (and) 

I j(Ue was I j(ue\ and lay down and slept. The night 
fell, and Y/ue lay down, (he) slept; the place was 
dark; and the sun rose, and I yjie was another (kind 
of) j nayane, a large (kind of) \nayane , which is a tree. 

And the night fell, (and) I yue was not a tree, and 
was \%ue, and lay down. 


2. FURTHER CHANGES OF FORM. 

The sun rose, and \^ue was a dui\ % and the sun (9381) 
set, and I yue was an Omuhererd, and lay down; 
and the sun rose, and I yue was I fye, ( ) and went (9382) 
into another country, and was a shad ; t and the sun 


* The flower of the dm is light-coloured; its fruit is green; (9876') 
another day, (when) its fruit has ripened, its fruit is red. 

f The shao is a tall tree, like the Ykuni (palm?). (9382') 


406 


APPENDIX. 


ta l^ue e Goba, ta shu ; ta Ikam lgi ? ta l^ue e 
jnaxane.* 


3. l*UE AS A IlGUI TREE AND AS A FLY. 

o o 


(9392) 


Ikam tna'u, ta l^u^ e Ijjai^, ta shuwa Ta, ta ti tsa, 
uwa Ine-d, td ti shuwa ya, ta ti tsa. Ta Ikam Igi, 
ta l;£ud sau, ta koo ta jnu, ta ssin Ikam, Ikam tsema, 
ta e llgui, ta e jkan. 


(9393) 


(9394) 


Ta, ha zau ssin llgui, ta ( ) llkua tsha llgui, ta sd 
ti gii llgui Ind, ta llgui kuanna ; ta l^ud e dzoa-dzoa. 
Ta ha zau jkauwa ha le kue Ta, td ti tchih-a llgui, 
ta jjkd. Ta l;£ud e dzoa-dzoa, ta llkuwa lle.t Ta ha 
zau jkauwa I & kue ya, ta ti tchih-a ( ) llgui. J 


4. I*UE AS WATER AND AS OTHER 

o 

THINGS. IN HIS OWN FORM, HE 
RUBS FIRE AND DIES. 


(9404) e llgu; ta llgu e jkan llkho-a. Ta tne+nfebbi 

ti mm Iku'i Ine-ssin. Ta I^u4 e g<5ru, ta shuwa 


(9382') 

(9393') 

(9395') 


* jnaxane shu >*a; jnaxane tahki ti e jkan; jnaxane ti 4khi. 
jkan jnaxane Ine-ssin dzhao. jkan jnaxane Ine-ssin Inu Ine lla ; 
ta >*a jnaxane Ine-ssin tseme, ta ti ||ke||keya Ikui Ine-ssin, ti jga, 
ti tseme, ta +khi. 

f Ta ha llkuwa goo, ta go jjkoa. lie jku e goo. 

\ llgui e jkan. Dju ti mm llgui, llgui Ine-ssin. Dju Ikua 
luwa llgui kue y6, ta Inu ti min luha llgui. llgui ti yei 
jkhu-ssin. 





» 




























* Hywi. 

is a %|4-tree„ 

(The is a tree about the Bim of a loquat-tree, bearing edible 
fruit, 'which is eaten raw.) 

Inanni, March 17th, 1880 , 


Vo 


> 






I x«e e l|«i. " a 

\nanni, Feb. 29th, 1880. 





lywe 

/Vo 



\xy& * !l hin-a; ta e \han Ukma % imm ; ia \ kua e 

is a I Mh-a, a little food-bearing tree, for he is not lx«^ 

\nanniy May 19M, 1880. 









' 


























\ 

























'/V o */V 

\jif* is an elephant. 

His tusks. 

Ha dzaii ggih ha, ta hod, ta t-tiba 
umm. 

His wife sees him, and is afraid. 

She prepares food. 

Ha dzau $n£-qmm ha hue \gauru. 
His wife heats him with a knob- 
keny. 


5. #11 hd (the name of a certain large 

food tree). 

6. The wife's hands are I hah- a fruit ; 

the hWhd tree grows out of 
her head, 

7. The wife's long great toes, 

Tamme Y Get. 8<A, 3880. 


TRANSLATION OF IKTJN TEXTS. 


407 


set, and I yue was a Makoba, and lay down ; and the 
sun rose, and I jgue was a \ nayane* 


3. IXUE AS A 1 1 GUI TREE AND AS A ELY. 

o o 

The sun set, and I %ue was I %ue, and lay upon (9392) 
the ground, and slept, was alone, and lay upon the 
ground and slept. And the sun rose, and I %ue awoke 
and . . . and stood up, and saw the sun, — a little 
sun, — and was II gui, and was a tree. 

And his wife saw the II \gui, and ( ) went to the (9393) 
Wgui, and went to take hold of a II gui fruit, and 
the II gui vanished; and \-%ue was a fly. And his 
wife laid herself upon the earth, and cried about 
the 11^2, and died. And I yue was a fly, and settled 
upon the grass.")* And his wife lay down upon the 
earth, and cried about ( ) the Wgui.% (9394) 


4. IZUE AS WATER AND AS OTHER 

THINGS. IN HIS OWN FORM, HE 
RUBS FIRE AND DIES. 

I jue was water; and the water was (in) the (9404) 
shadow of the tree. And the wood pigeons ate 

* (One kind of) j rik^cme lies upon the earth; another (kind of) (9382 ? ) 
Ynayanv is a tree. The [ nayane are numerous. The fruit of the 
tree \n%xane is yellowish. The fruit of the tree \naj(ane is large ; 
and the ground \nixyane fruit is small, and resembles the \Tcui fruit, 
is red, is small, and abundant. 

f And he settled upon the grass, and the grass broke. The(9393 ? ) 
name of the grass is god. 

t The || gui is a tree. People eat the || gu'i, the II gui fruit. (9395 ? ) 
People do not put the II gui into a pot, hut eat it raw. The II gui 
has thorns. 


408 


APPENDIX. 


Ikui Iwkdro. Ta ssin +ne+nkbbi, ta e llgu. # Ta 

(9405) +ne+nebbi ssin llgu, ta ( ) kauwa llgii yL Ta l^ue 
taba \\6 \mi Ine lla, llkellk^ya llnoa, ta ka gu 

4ne+n&bbi. Ta +ne+n&bbi Ige ti mm llgu, ta He f 
ko 6 , ta Ine +ne4nkbbi tsi, ta 4ne+n&bbi ti tchin; 
ta +ne+nkbbi tanki jka u. 

Ta l£iid e Ip^ue, ta sau, ta gii +ne+nhbbi, ta ti 

(9406) sua +ne+n&bbi jyuf-ssih, ta sh^ud +ne+nbbbi ( ) 
ITui-ssih, ta shuwa yk. Ta llgu kuchma, ta ha 
e ; ta sh^u^ +ne+nkbbi ta shiiwa >a. 

Ta sau +ne+nkbbi tah-a, ta shu. Ta shushu, ta 
sail, ta lg£ +ne+nebbi tah-a, kue da-a. 

(9407) T4 ti 

mm 4ne+nebbi, ta s'j£ Dama, ( ) ta sau. 
Ta llkda ska Dama, ta Dam a ssin ha. Ta ha 
kam-ma >4. Dama Ige y&ru ha, ^aru ha, Ikua 
ssin ha. Ta e tsdma, ta e Inii-drre ; J ta Dama 

(9408) ||go daba ssin Inii-drre llkuwa jkan, ta ( ) ha ssin 

(9404 5 ) * Ikua e llgu |nu |ne lla, ta e llgu tsema, yt llgu. 

(9405 ') f Ixue e He ( e go), ta tsema, ta Jne +ne+nebbi. lie Inu Ine 
lla, e llnoa, ta gu +ne4nebbi; ta e l^ue. 

(9407 ? ) + Tsaba tsema. 


TRANSLATION OF I RUN TEXTS. 


409 


the fruit of the I km. And I yu'e was a lizard,* and 
lay in the dead leaves of the \ikuL And (he) saw 
the wood pigeons, and was water, f And the wood 
pigeons saw the water, and ( ) settled upon the (9405) 
water's edge. And I yue worked large grass, like 
reeds, and it took hold of a wood pigeon. And the 
wood pigeons came to drink (lit. to eat) water, and 
the grass $ came near, and bit the wood pigeon's 
bill, and the wood pigeon cried out; and the other 
wood pigeons flew away. 

And I yue was and rose up, and took hold 

of the wood pigeon, and plucked out the wood 
pigeon's feathers, and put the wood pigeon's ( ) (9406) 
feathers in his head, and lay upon the ground. 

And the water vanished, and he was I yue\ and put 
the wood pigeon's feathers in his head, and lay 
upon the ground. And (he) put the wood pigeon's 
body into the hot embers, and lay down. And 
continued to lie down, and arose, and went to take 
out the wood pigeon's body from the fire. 

And (he) ate the wood pigeon, and heard Ovaherero, 

( ) and arose. And went to the Ovahererd, and the (9407) 
Ovahererd saw him. And he hid himself on the 
ground. The Ovahererd came to search for him, 
to search for him, (and) did not see him. For (he) 
was little, and was a I nu-erre ; § and a little 
Omuherero boy saw the \nu-erre upon a bush, and 


* This lizard (called also ggoru and ngnru by my j huh informants 
and \hai-Q)pua by \hah^kass > 6) appears to be the common Gecko. ' ' 

f (He) was not a large (piece of) water, but (?) was a little (9404') 
water, a water hole. 

f I xue was a grass which is (called) gd, and (is) small; and bit (9405') 
the wood pigeon. Large grass, which is (called) reeds, took hold 
of the wood pigeon ; and was \j(ue. 

§ A (certain) little bird. 


(9407') 


410 


APPENDIX. 


Dama, ta ti tekin.* Td ka e jk'u Iga llgu, (ta ti 
ska Ta). Ta ka kue: " Yd-ke ! Ye-ke! Ye-ke ! " 
Ta Dama sa-a ; ta yd ru ha, Tara ka, Tara ka, ta 
Skua ssin ka, ta Ska u. 

(9409) ( ) Ta llkoa f jka ska ka tai Jnuerre, ta ssin ka 

ka, ta Skua e Inu-erre, ta e l;£ud, ta jjkh.J Ta ka 
ka u ka, ta Ige ssin ka, ta ka Mkd. Ta ka ka llkoa 
u ; ta ka Ikua like, ta e l^ue, ta sail. Ha dzon ka 
ka: u M ka wooo ! " ta ka ka dzon ka, ta kue : 

/ o 

/ \ 9 — 
u Me Mka wooo ! " ta ka dzon ka kd kue kk Ine-e, 

/ ^ * 

td ti tckin : " 4no ! +no ! " ta ska ka td'i jnudrre. 
(9410) Ta ( ) ka ka ssin ka, ta ti l^udrri ka. Ta ka 

t 9 

sa-a ka ka. Ta ssin ka ka, ta Mke ; ta e gdru, ta 
sku, skuwa Ta. 

Ta ka ka ssin ka, ta kue: u Me Mka l^ud e, ta 

(9411) Ikua e dju tanki, ta e me Mka; ( ) ta ssin me, ta 

Mkd. Td ti +nii jkaii da-a, ta ssin me, ta \\kh ; 

ta ikiia e dju tanki, ta e me Mka, td e l^ud. 

Ta nd ti u me Snudrre, ta Ikua ssin me Mka, ta 

(9408') * Ta llkoa tckin: " Tsuai ! tsuai ! tsuai ! " Dama daba ssin 

ha, ta ha e Inu-crre. 

|£ue e Inu-erre, ta ti tchin. Ha Ikua e Inu-erre Ine-e ; ta e 
Inii-erre 4khi. 

(9409') t Ha Ikua e Inu-erre +khi, ta e Inu-erre Ine-e, ta u ha tai 
Inuerre. 

• o 

f Ha llkunna jnoe tsema, lou Inoo, lou-de Inoo. 


TRANSLATION OF IKUN TEXTS. 


411 


( ) he saw the Ovahererd, and cried out.* And (9408) 
was the Bushman's eye water and fell upon the 
ground. And he said: u Y e-lie ! Ye-he ! Ye-he!" 

And the Omuherero heard, and sought for him, 
sought for him, sought for him, and did not see 
him, and (he, I yue) flew away. 

( ) And (he, I yue) f flew, coming to his mother's (9409) 
country, and saw his father, and was not a I nu-erre, 
but was I yu'e, and died.J And his father went to 
him, and came to look at him, and he was dead. 

And his father went away, and he was not dead, 
and was I yue, and rose up. He called to his father : 

"My father ! 0 ! " and his father called to him, and 
said: "My child! 0!" and he called to his father 
once, and cried out: " $no ! *no!" and came to his 
mother's country. 

And ( ) his father saw him and stealthily (9410) 
approached him. And he heard his father. And 
(he) saw his father, and died; and was a lizard, and 
lay down, lay down upon the ground. 

And his father saw him, and said: "It is my 
child, \yue ! for it is not another person, but is 
my child; ( ) and (he) saw me, and died. And (9411) 
(he) was rubbing sticks (to make) fire ; and saw 
me, and died; and is not another person, but is 
my child, and is I yue. For, I went (?) away to my 
country, and did not see my child ; and to-day, 

* And (he) cried: " Tsuai ! tsuai ! tsuai ! " (Two) Ovaherero (9408') 
children saw him ; for he was a | nu-erre. 

I xue was a | nii-erre, and cried out. He was not one | nu-erre; 
but was many | nu-erre. 

f He was [now] not many | nu-erre, hut was one \nu-erre, and (9409') 
went to his mother's country. 

% He carried over his shoulder a little bag, the skin of an 
antelope, a female antelope's skin. 


412 


APPENDIX. 


(9412) Ikam e, na ti ssin me JJha, ( ) ta me JJha ti +nu 
da-a, Jkan tsdma da -a ; # ta me JJha ti i nii, ta ssin 
me, ta JJkd. Ta e l^ue ; ta Ikua e djii tanki, ta 
e l^ne. Na ti koa me Mha, ta me Mha ti JJkb. 

(9413) Na ti u me Jnudrre ; ( ) ta me Jnudrre 4^a, ta 

Ilnue +khi, na ti u me Jnudrre, Ikua ssin me Jnudrre, 
me Jnudrre +^a. Ta Ikamma e, na ti ssin me Mha, 
ta me Mha e l^ue, ta ti tabha da-a, Jkan tsdma 

(9414) da-a, ta ti mm tshana, ( ) ta +nu da-a, ta ha 

llgaussiii kwi, ta ha ti tchin, ta ssin me, ta JJke; 

ta na e l^e-lln'u, ta me JJha l^ue ssin me, ta Jlkb ; 
ta na ti koa me Mha. Na ti u me Inudrre, me 
Jnuerre ka e +^a. 

(9415) "Tame JJha e dju ( ) tahki; ri a ssin me JJha. 
Ta sh^nd 4ne+nbbbi JTwi ; ta me JJha ssin me, me 
Ind kue 4ne4nebbi JTwf, +ne+ndbbi JTwi +khl, ta 
ha e 4ne4ndbbi sa. Ta Ikam e, na ti koa me JJha, 

(9416) ( ) td ti u me Jnudrre." 

Ta u ha Inuerre ; ha I mi dr re Iku e llnoa ; ta e 
Inum, Inum Inu Ine lid. Ta ha ti u ha Innerre. 

• / • o 

\ \ f \ w t 

(9412 ? ) * I kan Jku e In'au-lkumm ; ta e Jkan sa; da-a Jkan +gaah ; 

tsema ta n4gaan, llkellkeya llnoa. Jkan tanki ti shu ya; ta ha 
ti ll^un-a jkan tanki kue lie; ha ti +nuru da-a, da-a ti 4nahwa 
lie ; ta, ha ti gu da-a, ha ti dshu da-a. 


TRANSLATION OF IKUN TEXTS. 


413 


I saw my child, ( ) and my child was rubbing fire, (9412) 
little sticks' fire ; # and my child rubbed fire, and 
saw me, and died. And is I yue ; and is not another 
person, but is I yue. I am afraid of my child, for 
my child is dead. 

"I go to my country; ( ) and my country is far (9413) 
away, and (during) many moons I go to my country, 

(and) do not see my country ; my country is far 
distant. And, to-day, I see my child, for my child 
is I yue, and makes fire, little sticks' fire, and eats 
tshana , f ( ) and rubs fire, and his hands hurt (him), (9414) 
and he cries, and sees me, and dies ; for I am 

\ye-\\n'u, and my child, I yue 1 sees me, and dies ; 

and I am afraid of my child. I go away to my 
country, my country that(?) is far distant. 

"And my child is another person; ( ) I see my (9415) 
child. And (I) wear in my head wood pigeons' 
feathers ; and my child saw me, my head with wood 
pigeons' feathers, many wood pigeon feathers, for 
they(?) were two wood pigeons. And, to-day, I am 
afraid of my child, ( ) and (I) go to my (own) (9416) 
country." 

And (he) went to his (own) country ; the name 

of his country is II noa) it is a mountain, a large 

mountain. And he went away to his (own) country. 


* The tree's name was Waki-Mcumm ; and (he had) two sticks; (9412') 
the fire stick ( i.e ., the one which he held in his hands) was long, 
small, and long, like a reed. The other (fire) stick lay on the 
ground ; for he had laid (it) the other stick upon grass ; he rubbed 
fire, the fire fell upon the grass ; and he took up the fire {i.e., the 
grass), he blew the fire. 

f Tshana is the name of a tall fruit-hearing tree. The fruit (9406') 
of it is eaten raw. 


414 


APPENDIX. 


( 9436 ) 


( 9436 ') 


( 9450 ') 


II. Moon. 

PEAYEE TO THE YOUNG MOON * 

( Given in June , 1880 , hy jnanni, who heard it from his father , 

ya-llne.) 

jkajkarushe ! 

Hai jkajkarushe ! 

Hai hai, 
jkajkarushe ! 
jkajkarushe o^wi mi ! 

Hai hai, 
jkajkhrushe ! 

O^wi me kue tshi. 

Hai hai ! 

( ) Ikam ti Igf, 

Ma ti o)Vi mi, 

Ha ti umm tshi. 

Ma ti o)Vi' mi kue tshi tsema, 

Ha ti umm. 

o 

Hai hai, 
jkajkarushe ! 

* E ti ssin llnuai, e ti o>Vi jkajkarrishe, e ti dzon |o'u 
II go jkhu. 

llnuai tsema, e ti oywi Jkajkarrishe; zau ti oywi jkajkarribe. 


TRANSLATION OE IKTJN TEXTS. 


415 


PRAYER TO THE YOXJHG MOON.* 

Y oung Moon ! 

Hail, Young Moon ! 

Hail, hail, 

Young Moon ! 

Young Moon ! speak to me ! 

Hail, hail, 

Young Moon ! 

Tell me of something. 

Hail, hail ! 

( ) When the sun rises, 

Thou must speak to me, 

That I may eat something. 

Thou must speak to me about a little thing, 
That I may eat. 

Hail, hail, 

Young Moon ! 

* When (?) we see the moon [J nanni elsewhere explained], we 
say YkaVkdrrishe ; we sound the male antelope's horn. 

We call the small moon \ka\karrishe ; (but) women call (it) 
\kd\karrihe. 


( 9436 ) 


( 9436 ') 


( 9450 ') 


416 


APPENDIX. 


IX. Customs and Superstitions . 


THE TREATMENT OF THIEVES. 


( Given in 1881 , by jnamii, from his paternal grandfather , Karu.) 

(9848) jkuh zau ti tcha, ha bd sa ha tai Ikiia kuonna, 
e ti gii ha, e ti Id ha kue ha tai, sa ha ha ; ta ssiii 
Ikhl ti u, ssih jnuerre. Ha tcha-tshi, e ti gii ha, 

(9849) e ti ( ) jka, e ti la dzhu tanki, jka Id dzhii tanki, 
kue dzhu tanki tshi. Ta ti oTwi dzhu tanki : " Me 

o 

zau tchd i tshi ka e a; i tshi dzha ka e, me zau 
tchd. Ta, h a Id me zau kue ha ba sa ha tai. 

(9849 ? )( ) Ta me zau tchd tshi dzha ka e." 

Ta dzhu tanki ti sa-a, ta ti llna: "N-n; jkuh 
a zau." Ta, e ti sa-a, ti llna: "N-h; h a Ikui sa-a 
i, ta Ikui jkuh me zau; ta me zau to u, ta Igeya 
ha ha sa ha tai ; ta +^a ; ta liiwa ha jnuerre, ta n 
a Ikui jkuh me zau." 

Ta dzhu tanki ti tchih, ta e ti sa-a; ta e j^a ti 
kwf, ta e ti u ; e ti o^wi dzhu tanki: "Mu, Ige, 

(9850 J )n a jkuh me zau, ( ) jkuh me Ikumm, jkuh me 
/ f 

liiisau; jkuh me tt^un-llgamma." 

(9850) ( ) Ikam Ine-e zau guwa tshi, e ti ssih tshi, e ti 

gii tshi. Zau ti o^wf e: "Me jkao, ssih me tshi 
dzh& ka e, n a tcha." * Ta e saa ; ta e kue : 


(9850') 


* jkun-de Ikui koa. 


TRANSLATION OF jKUN TEXTS. 


417 


THE TREATMENT OF THIEVES. 

If a \kun woman steals, her father and her mother (9848) 
being (still) there, we take hold of her, we give her 
to her mother and her father; and they all go away 
from their place. Her stolen thing, we take it, we 
( ) run, we give (it) to the other person, run to give (9849) 
to the other person the other person's thing. And 
we say to the other person: " My wife stole your 
thing which is here ; your nice thing here, my wife 
stole. And I have given (hack) my wife to her 
father and her mother. ( ) For, my wife stole the (9849') 
nice thing here." 

And the other person hears, and objects (saying): 

"No; kill thy wife." And, we hear, (and) object 
(saying): "No; I do not listen to you, and will not 
kill my wife ; for, my wife has gone away, has 
gone to her father and her mother ; and is far away ; 
and has gone to her country ; and I will not kill 
my wife." 

And the others cry, and we hear; and our hearts 
ache, and we go away ; we say to the other people : 

"We go away; come, that I may kill my wife, ( ) (9850 ') 
kill my father-in-law, kill my mother-in-law, kill 
my . . ." * 

( ) On the day that the woman took the thing, (9850) 
we see the thing, we take the thing. The woman 
says to us: "My husband, look at my nice thing, 
here, which I stole." t And we hear; and we say: 

* Another relation, 
f A limn woman is not afraid. 

2 E 


(9850') 


418 


APPENDIX. 


(9851) "Me zau, na a tshi n a ssin." ( ) Ta dzhuara ha; 

ta ha ti gu, ta ti la e. Ta e ti gu, ta luwa e jnue; 

t 

ta ha ti tchih : " Na me tshi, ye-he ! Me jkao ! na 
me tshi, ye-he!" Ta, e ti llna: "N-n; me zau, 
(9852) h a ( ) Ikui sa-a a; ta dzhu dure ti jkuh me; ta 

na ti la dzhu dure kue dzhu dure tshi. Me zau, 

o 7 

h a Ikui sa-a a, ta ma ti shuar a me." 


(9853) Zau ti tchd dzhu tahki tshi, ha ti debbi ha jkao, 

ha jkao ti ssin dzhu tahki tshi, ha j^a ti kwi, ta 

(9854) ha ti jkuh ha; ( ) ha ti jkuh ara ha zau.* 

Dzhu tahki ti oTwi ha: "N-n; te jkuh ara 

f • \ 

a zau." Ta, ha ti llna: "N-n; h a llnd tchd; ta 

f ^ 

me j^a kwi ; ta n a Jkuh me zau ; Ine te o)Vi me ; 
Ikam ma e i koa me." 


(9855) Zau-daba, zau tdi ti llkb, zau daba e daba Ine-e, 
ha ti geya dzhu tahki tchii. Ikani tanki, ha ti tcha, 
dzhu dure e ha lu ssin tchu ti gu ha, ti Id ha 
(9856) dzhu tahki, dzhu ( ) tahki ti jkuh ara ha, ta ti 


(9854 ? ) * llkou ha t%a jkuh ha zau; ha t%a jkuh ha zau kue Inubbo. 


TRANSLATION OF jKUN TEXTS. 


419 


" My wife, give me thy thing, that I may look 
(at it)." ( ) And (we) persuade her ; and she takes (9851) 

(it) and gives (it) to us. And we take (it), and put 
(it) into our hag; and she cries (saying): " Give 
me my thing, oh dear ! My husband ! give me 
my thing, oh dear! 5 ' And we refuse (saying): 

"No, my wife, I will ( ) not listen to thee ; for, (9852) 
the other person would kill me; and I will give 
the other person the other person's thing. My wife ! 

I will not listen to thee, for thou dost (try to) 
persuade me (in vain)." * 


If a woman steals another person's thing, (and) (9853) 
returns to her husband, (and) her husband sees the 
other person's thing, his heart aches, and he kills 
her; ( ) he altogether kills his wife.f (9854) 

Another man ( i.e ., his father) says to him: "No; 
do not quite kill thy wife." J And, he objects 
(saying): "No; I object to stealing; and my heart 
aches; and I will kill my wife; leave off talking 
to me ; to-day ye must fear me." 


A female child, if her mother is dead and the (9855) 
female child is an only child, goes to another person's 
hut. Another day, if she steals, the other person 
into whose hut she went (to live) takes her, (and) 
gives her to the other person, the other ( ) (from (9856) 


* Should the father be dead, and the mother alive, the woman, / qqkoj\ 
who stole, is still taken and given hack to the latter. And, should ' ' 

she be an old offender, the mother is said to give her, through 
a son, to another person, to be burned to death. 

f He shoots with an arrow, killing his wife; he shoots, killing (9854') 
his wife with a | nullo (a particular kind of arrow). 

J Meaning, that he may beat her. 


420 


APPENDIX. 


luwa ha kue tchu, ta ti ku-u, like ya kue da-a, ta 
ha ti llkd ara, ta dzhu tahki ti ddbbi tchu. 

(9857) Ta ti oywi dzhu, ( ) dzhu d, he la ssin kue 

zauwa d he tcha, sa jkun zau, sa ti oywi : " E ku-u 
jkun zau kue da-a, luwa zau kue tchu, ta ku-u 

(9858) jkun zau. Ind te Ikaowa ( ) e kue zau." Ta, dzhu 
tahki ti llna': "hT-n; e Ikui Iln4 i; ta, d ti llna; ta 

zaii e * doa ti tcha ; ta e Ikui I Ind i ; ta e ti sa-a, 

ta e jya ti dzha." 


(9859) Ugoo ti tchd, e ti jkun, d ti iyk jkuh-a llkou, f 
ta Ikui luwa da-a ; ta ti Ikun ara kue llkou. Zau 

7 • o 

lne-d, d ti ku-u, ku-u luwa da-a. 


(9860) Daba ti tcha, e ti llnd luha daba;J ta Ikui 
jkun daha. 

Ikam tahki, daba ti jkan, daba ti tcha, d ti llna, 
(9861) e ti jkun daba;§ la dzhu dure ( ) kue daba, ta 
sa ti Jkun ara ha. 


(9858') 

(9859') 

(9860') 


* E koa ha jku, ta Ikui oywi ha jku; oywi luha ha. 

E ti koa dzhu e, e jkun, kue ha llgan-a. 
f llkou +khi, Ikua e llkou Ine-e; dzhu +khi llkou; dzhu ^khi 
ti t^a ha. 

J Ta ti koa daba tsema tcha. 

§ Ta ti koa ha jku, ta ti oywi ha jku kue daha. Dzhu e, 
e jkun ara, e ti koa ssin Jku; e ti Ikui oywi ssin jku. 


TRANSLATION OE jKUN TEXTS. 


421 


whom she stole), the other people kill her altogether ; 

(they) put her into a hut, and burn, killing her with 
fire; and she dies altogether; and the other people 
return home. 

They say to the people, ( ) to the people who gave (9857) 
them the girl who stole, they (who) killed the girl, 
they say: "We have burning, killed the girl with 
fire, put the girl into a hut, and burning killed 
the girl. Leave off reproaching ( ) us about the (9858) 
girl." And the other people object (saying): "No; 
we are not scolding you; for, we object (to stealing); 
for this* girl stole; and we do not scold you; for, 
we hear, and our hearts are glad." 


If a man steals, we kill (him), we shoot, killing (9859) 
him (with) arrows, t and do not put him into the 
fire ; but, kill him altogether with arrows. It is only 
a woman (whom) we burn, burn, putting (her) into 
the fire. 


If a child steals, we merely scold the child ; $ and (9860) 
do not kill the child. 

Another day, when the child has grown up, if it 
steals, we object, we kill the child ;§ give ( ) the ( 9861 ) 
child to other persons, and they kill it altogether. 


* We fear her name, and do not utter her name; (but) merely f 9858 ? 1 
mention her. ' ' 

We fear the people whom we kill, on account of their spirits, 
t Many arrows, not a single arrow ; the arrows of many persons ; f9859 ? ) 
many persons shoot at him. ' 

t For, we respect the stealing of a little child. ( 9860 ? ) 

§ We fear its name, and call it " child ". Those persons whom V 
we kill altogether, we fear their names; we do not utter their 
names. 


422 


APPENDIX. 


( 9862 ) 

( 9863 ) 

( 9864 ) 

( 9865 ) 


( 9861 J ) 

( 9863 ? ) 

( 9864 ? ) 


Zau tahki, ti lu e tchu, ha daba ti tcha d tshi, 

e umm, ha daba ti nmm, e ti ssih ; d ti gu ha, ta 

ti gu ha tai, ta ti la dzhu tahki # kue ( ) sa, dzhu 

tahki ti hiwa sa kue da-a, ta ti ku-u, ku-ii llko-a 

sd, kue da-a; ddbbi ti oTwi d: u E ku-ii llko-a 

dzhu sa kue da-a." E ti sa-a, d ti kue: u hiT ; 

e llna tchd." Ta ti ( ) +gumm.'|* Ta sd ti kud : 

" E ku-ii dzhu sa; i te line d." E (Ta ti dzha,J 

/ / 

ta e ti gd. Ta ti o-Twf ssih: "Em Ilka llna tcha, 
ta kod tcha; ta Ikui tcha." Ta, sa § ti sa-a, ta 
( ) ti kue: "ST.»|| 

Ta d ti la ssih ka \j(6 llgdo tsa'u, ta sa ti u ssih 

tchu. Ta, Ikaih tahki, sa ti la Goba. Ta Goba ti 

la ssih kue gomi llgdo Ine-e, sa wa-tna ; ta sd ti 

la d ; ta d ti jkuh ; ( ) ta umm ara, ta ssih ddbbi 

ssih tchu, ta d oTwi dzha ssih : " I ddbbi i tchu, 

la e kue wa-4na ; Ine te la e kue gomi Ine-d ; e llnd 

tchi Ine-e ; e Ikui umm tchi Ine-e ; ta e ti umm 

tchi sa." Ta sa ti sa-a, ta ti zan ; ta sa ddbbi 
/ 

ssih tchu. 

Ta, d umm ara gomi; ta sa oTwi e: " I umm 

* |kua e dzhu dure, ta e e dzhu tahki. 
f Ikua e e +khi, ta e e Ine-e, ta oywi ka. 

J E +khi lya-ssin ti dzha. 

§ Ssih +khi. 

|| Dzhu tahki +khi ti sa-a Jhuiya, ta dzhu Ine-e ti zan, ta 
kue: 

o 


TRANSLATION OF IKTJN TEXTS. 


423 


If another woman comes into our hut (and) her 
child steals a thing of ours, (if) her child eats our 
food, (and) we see, we take it, and we take its 
mother, we give ( ) them to other people,* (and) (9862) 
the other people put them into the fire, and burn, 
burn, killing them with fire ; (and) return (and) 
say to us: "We have, burning, killed the two people 
with fire." We hear; we say: "Yes; we object to 
stealing." And (we) are ( ) silent, t And they (9863) 
say: "We have burnt the two persons; ye must 
not scold (us)." Our hearts are glad, $ and we 
sing. And (we) say to them: "We . . . object to 
stealing; and fear stealing; and do not steal." And 
those § (who killed the woman) hear; and ( ) (one) (9864) 
says: "Yes."|| 

And we give them a male elephant's tusk; and 
they go away to their home. And, another day, 
they give (it) to the Makoba. And the Makoba 
give them one bull, with Indian Hemp ; and they 
give to us; and we kill, ( ) and eat (it) up; and (9865) 
they return to their home; and we speak nicely to 
them (saying): "Eeturn ye to your dwelling; give 
us Indian Hemp ; do not give us the bull alone ; 
we object to one thing (only); we do not eat one 
thing; for, we eat two things." And they hear, 
and assent (to us) ; and they return to their home. 

And we eat up the bull ; and they say to us : 

* (They) are not strangers, but, are our other people (of the (9861') 
same place). y 

f It is not many of us, but, one of us (who) speaks to him (9863') 
(to the other person). 

X Our many hearts are glad. 

§ They (are) many. 

|| Many other people listen, displeased; and one person assents, (9864') 
and says: "Yes." 


424 


APPENDIX. 


(9866) 


(9867) 


(9573) 

(9574) 


(9575) 

(9866') 

(9576') 

(9574') 

(9575') 


gomi; Id e kue \%6 ( ) tsa'u." Ta, 4 ti sa-a; ta 
e \Yk ti dzha. Ikam ti Igf, ta 4 d4bbi 4 tchu.* 
Ta Ig4 o)Vi dzhu tanki, e g4ya e tchu, e dzhuwa, 
e o>Vf ssin : "M la dzhu kue \%6 ( ) tsa'u." 
Ta dzhu tanki e 4 dzhu ti sa-4 ; ta e ti la ssin 
kue wa-tna. 

O 


THE IZU.f 

( Given in August, 1880, by jnanni, from his paternal grandfather , 
Karu, and from personal observation.) 

Ikun zau ti kod tshfsi e, Ikui gii. Ilgdo ti gii. 

Ikun daba tsema e za'u-ma Ikui gu tshf e; ta ti 

koa. Ta ha tdi ti o)Vi ha : u Tshf e, a koa ( ) 

hi tdi. ?? Ta daba ti sa-a, ti koa tshf ; ta daba 

llgo-ma Ikua koa tshf, ti gu tshi, ti tenne, tenne 

ha ba kue tshf. 

Ta ha ba ti Ilnin-aJ tshf kue >a, ta Ikui ssin 
tshf, ha ti ( ) u. Ta ha bd ti llna : "TJ m ba." § 

* E ii mm toa g6mi, ta lu ssin tchu, yaru wa-tna ; ta sa la 
e kue wa-tna. 

f jkah jku e jke, ta e umm jkha; Ikua e jkan |uha. jkan 
Ine-e, e ti taba tshi. 

J Tshi Ine-e na ti o^wf llnih ; tshf =|rkhf na ti o^wf llnih-a. 

§ Dzuaiya ha llha, ta ha llha e llgo-ma. 


TRANSLATION OF jKUN TEXTS. 


425 


u Ye have eaten up the bull; give us an elephant's 
( ) tusk." And we hear; and our hearts are glad. (9866) 
The sun arises, and we return to our dwelling.* 

And come, telling the other people who are at our 
dwelling — our people — we say to them: " Give ye 
an elephant's ( ) tusk to the people." And the (9867) 
others, who are our people, hear ; and we give them 
Indian Hemp. 


THE FOUE PIECES OF WOOD CALLED I XUrf 
USED FOR DIVINING PURPOSES. 

The \Jcun women respect these things, (they) do (9573) 
not take hold (of them). Men take hold (of them). 

A small j kun child, who is a little girl, does not 
take hold of this thing ; for (she) respects (it). For, 
her mother says to her : " This thing, thou must 
respect, ( ) my mother." And the child listens, (9574) 
(and) respects the thing ; but a little male child 
does not fear the thing, (and) takes hold of the 
thing, (and) carries, carries the thing to his father. 

And his father puts down J the thing upon the 
ground, and (the child) does not see (or look at) 
the thing, he goes ( ) away. For his father objects (9575) 


* When we have eaten up the hull, (we) go to their dwelling, 
to seek Indian Hemp ; and they give us Indian Hemp. 

f The I xu is a set of four pieces of wood, two "male " and two 
"female". ( ) Spoons are also made from the wood of the same 
tree. The narrator described it as follows : — 

The name of the tree is \ke ; and (it) is a food tree ; (it) is not 
a mere tree. (It is) one tree, (from) which we make the thing 
(i.e., the set of I £w). 

By the Makoba, the |%w is called \nu\num. Their name for the 
fruit of the \ke tree is kanzudi. 

f (When putting down) one thing, I say llnm ; (when putting (9574') 
down) several things, I say \\nih-a. 


(9866') 

(9547') 

(9580') 

(9576') 


426 


APPENDIX. 


Daba si, ta jka u, Igeya ha tai, o)Vi ha tai : 

tai, na llgu." Ta daba jka Ige o^wi ha tai: 
66 la m ba kue llgu." 

(9576) Ta ha tai +e ( ) llgii kue jno ; umm Indo; ta la 

ha llha kue llgu; ta ha llha like llgii, ti tenne ha 

bd kue llgu. Ta llgii 4nau, ta sha ^a; ta ha ssin, 
ta ti tchin: a M bd ! llgu sha ehe! M ba ! llgu 
(9577) sha ehe ! " Ta ha bd sa-a ha, ta jkd Ige ( ) gii 
ha. Ta ti llherri ha llha, \yi Ikan tsema, ta llherri 
ha llha; ta jkan tsema e shana. Td ha llha o^wi 
e: "M ba, te +neamm me, yehe! M bd, te 
(9578) +neamm me, yehe! M ba, te ( ) llherri me, yehe! 
M bd, te llherri me, ydhe ! " 

Ta dzhu* gu ha, ha tai Igd gii ha: U M tai, 
me llha, yehe ! M tai, me llha, yehe ! M tai, me 
jkao ti llherri me llha, yehe ! " 

(9579) ( ) Ha ba Ige gu jkiiru, ta nj^a llkau, ta luwa 

ha llkau kue ha llnau ; ta dzhu ti Ik'o'u. Ta ha 

ssin llha ha zaii kue llkau; ta ha llkau e Inubbo, 
td e ll^i.f Ta ha zaii tchin, ta jne llkau. Ta ti 
(9580) tchin; ta ha lui-sau tchin: u ( ) M tdi, me +kum 

(9578') * Skua e llnai, ta e zau-ssin. 

(9579') f llkau sa, ha ssin llha ha zau. 


TRANSLATION OF (RUN TEXTS. 


427 


(to his looking on, and says): " Go, my father!"* 

The child laughs, and runs off, goes to his mother, 

(and) says to his mother : " My mother ! give water." 

For the child ran, coming (and) saying to his mother : 

" Give my father water." 

And his mother took ( ) water (from the pot) with (9576) 
a gourd (?), the skin of food; and gave her child 
water; and her child carried the (vessel of) water 
in his hands, carried water to his father. And the 
water (vessel) fell, and (the water) poured upon 
the ground; and he (the hoy) saw, and cried out: 

"My father! the water pours down, oh dear! 

My father ! the water pours down, oh dear ! " 

And his father heard him, and ran, coming ( ) to (9577) 
take hold of him. And (he) heat his child, broke 
off a little stick, and heat his child ; and the little 
stick was a shana. And his son's speech was this (?) : 

"My father! leave off beating me! oh dear! My 
father ! leave off heating me ! oh dear ! My father ! 
leave off ( ) striking me! oh dear! My father ! (9578) 
leave off striking me ! oh dear ! " 

And the people f took hold of him, his mother 
came to take hold of him (saying): "My mother! 
my child ! oh dear ! My mother ! my child ! oh 
dear ! My mother ! my husband is striking my child, 
oh dear ! " 

( ) His (the child's) father came and took (his) (9579) 
quiver, and drew out an arrow, and put his arrow 
upon his how; and the people (i.e., the women) 
called out. For, he took aim at his wife with (two) 
arrows; for his arrows were a I nublo, and a 11^*4 


% (He) caressed (?) his child ; for his child was a little hoy. 
f (They) were not men, but were women. 

% He aimed at his wife with two arrows (one after the other). 


(9575') 

(9578') 

(9579') 


428 


APPENDIX. 


ssin llha me kue llkau sa, yehe ! " Ta jkauwa 
le, ta shu Ta, ta ti tchin; ta dzhu Ige gu ha, ta 
oTwi ha: u llna tchih." 

Ta ha llna: " H n! me +kum ssih llha me 
kue llkau. sd ; yehe ! " Ta dzhu gu wa ; ta ha 
Ikua sa-a dzhu, ta llna. 

+KAQ TA. 

(Given by Tamme in 1880.) 

(9298) jku ti +ka'owa jnum kud Ta. M ba tdi ti tkaowa 
jnum kub Ta. Ha ti oTwl: u +nauwa llgu! tnauwa 
llgu ! " Ta tchf ti +nauwa llgu. 

Ilgo ti Ikua +kabwa jnum Ta. Zau ti tkaowa 
jnum Ta. 

(9299) ( ) M ba tai e n-llna. M tai ba e Tamme tsema ; 

ta m tai tai ti e jkaro-lln'a. M ba ba bd ti e 
Tamme Inu Ine lla. 


SNAKES, LIZARDS, AND A CERTAIN SMALL 
ANTELOPE, WHEN SEEN NEAR GRAVES, 
TO BE RESPECTED. 


(Given 25th October , 1881, by jnanni, from his paternal grand- 
father, Karu.) 

(9957) +in-a e ttumma jkbro, e Ikui jkun, ta e e Inu-i, 

/ \ 

e like, llkeya +in-a.* Ta, e Ikui jkun ; ta ti koa. 


(9957') 

(9958') 


* E ta&ki, e llgoo, ha like, ha ti e ^in-a; ta ha tih-a ti 
e llgan-a. +in-a jne ha, ha like, ha e +ih-a. 

Zau like luha, zau kuonna ^in-a. +in-a jne zau, zau like, 
zau e +ih-a. Zau like luha, ha llgan-a e llgan-a luha. 

llgoo ti like, ha tanki e llgan-a luha, ha tanki ti e ^ih-a; 
ti turiima ha ya; ta ha llgah-a luha ti u. 

t r ° . f 

j£6 jkun ha, ti e +ih-a Ine-e ; ta ti e 4me-ko, ta ti dzho ; ta 
Ikua e ^in-a tanki; ta ha jya ti kwi. 


TRANSLATION OF IKTJN TEXTS. 


429 


And his wife cried, and avoided the arrow. And 
(she) cried; and his wife's mother cried: ( ) " My (9580) 
mother ! my son-in-law takes aim at my daughter 
with two arrows, oh dear ! " And (she) fell down, 
and lay upon the ground, and cried ; and the people 
(many other women) came (and) took hold of her, 
and said to her: " Do not cry!" And she refused 
(saying) : " No ! my son-in-law aims at my daughter 
with two arrows, oh dear ! " And the people took 
hold of her ; and she would not listen to the people, 
and refused. 


TO BEAT THE GROUND (WITH A STONE). 

The \kun beat a stone upon the ground. My (9298) 
father's mother beat a stone upon the ground. She 
said : " Fall into the water ! Fall into the water ! " 

And the thing (the lightning ?) fell into the water. 

A man does not beat a stone upon the ground. 

A woman beats a stone upon the ground. _ 

( ) My (Tamme' s) father's mother was N-Wna. (9299) 
My mother's father was Little Tamme ; and my 
mother's mother was [karo-Wn'a. My father's father's 
father was Great Tamme. 


SNAKES, LIZARDS, AND A CERTAIN SMALL 
ANTELOPE, WHEN SEEN NEAR GRAVES, 

TO BE RESPECTED. 

A snake which is near a grave, we do not kill, (9957) 
for, (it) is our other person, our dead person, the 


430 


APPENDIX. 


(9958) Ta Ikam +khl, d ti ssin ha, e ( ) Ikui jkun, ssin 
ta ti llna. 

Ikam. tahki, e ssin ts^an, e jnabba ts^ah, ts^ah 
Igdya e tahki >*a, e ti koa ts^an, Ikui jkun ts^ah, 
ti llna ts^an. 

(9959) ( ) E ssin lou, loii tumma e tahki jnudrre, jnudrre 

d, he e tahki llkeya, e ti koa lou ; ta lou Ikua e lou 

luha. Ha llkumni ti llkoa tsema, ha e dzhu e 
/ 

llkeya, M e llgaii-a lou. Ta ti e lou llg<5o ; ta Ikua, 
e lo'u de. 

A CERTAIN SNAKE, WHICH, BY LYING 
UPON ITS BACK, ANNOUNCES A DEATH 
IN THE FAMILY; AND WHICH MUST 
NOT, UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, 
BE KILLED. 

( Given 2^th October , 1881, by jnanni, from his paternal grandfather , 
Karu, and from personal observation.) 

(9952) llhin, e jnudrre lie 4in-a. E +ne-arnni ha, ha ti 
d ha jgu, ha ti la e kue ha jgu; d ti koa ha, ta 

(9957 J ) * (When) onr " other one ", (who) is a man, dies, he becomes (?) 

a snake ; and his snake is a spirit. A snake bites him, he dies, he 
is a snake. 

When a woman just dies, the woman has no snake. If a snake 
bites a woman, (and) the woman dies, the woman is a snake. 
If a woman merely dies, her spirit is a mere spirit. 

(9958 J ) When a man dies, his "other" is a mere spirit; his " other" is 
a snake ; near his earth (grave ?) ; and his mere spirit goes away. 

If an elephant kills him, (he) becomes (?) one (kind of) snake; 
(he) is a ^ne-ko, and is black ; he is not a different kind of snake ; 
for, his heart aches. 


TRANSLATION OF IKTJN TEXTS. 


431 


dead person's snake.* And we do not kill (it); for 
(we) respect it. And (if, during) many days, we 
see it, we ( ) do not kill (it); looking (at it), (we) (9958) 
let it alone. 

Another day, (if) we see a lizard, we follow the 
lizard's spoor; (if) the lizard has gone to the earth 
(grave?) of our other person, we respect the lizard, 

(we) do not kill the lizard, (we) let the lizard alone. 

(When) ( ) we see an antelope, f an antelope (9959) 
(which is) near our other person's place, that place 
where our other person has died, we respect the 
antelope; for, the antelope is not a mere antelope. 

Its legs (?) seem(?) small, it is the person who has 
died, and is a spirit antelope. It is a male antelope ; 
it is not a female antelope. 


A CERTAIN SNAKE, WHICH, BY LYING 
UPON ITS BACK, ANNOUNCES A HEATH 
IN THE FAMILY; AND WHICH MUST 
NOT, UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, 

BE KILLED. 

The Whin J (is) a serpent of our country. (If, when) (9952) 
we strike it, it does in this manner with its belly, § it 


f At the Cape Town Museum, a very small kind of buck (9301') 
(the name of which the Curator did not know) was recognized 
as the | ou by my informants. It had been, I believe, brought from 
Damaraland or its neighbourhood. 

With regard to the above belief, it may also be mentioned that, 
on one occasion, I saw a snake close to the coping of a burial place ; 
and showed it to J nanni, expecting him to destroy it. He merely 
looked at it in rather a strange way, and allowed it to depart 
uninjured ; saying something about its being near a grave; which, 
at the time, I did not clearly understand. — Ed. 

J A long, light-coloured snake, which does not bite, and is timid. (9952') 
§ That is, turns the under side of its body upwards. (9952) 


432 


APPENDIX. 


(9953) 

(9954) 

(9955) 

(9956) 

(9952') 

(9953') 

(9955') 

(9952') 

(9953') 


f 

ti u, ta ti debbi tchii, ka Ikiii Jkun* ha. Ta ti 
Una ; ta ha ti shu, shu, shu, tsau, u ara. 

t 

Ta Ikam tahki, e ssiii ha, ( ) ha Ikui la e kue 
ha !gu ? e ti +ne-amm ha, 4 ti jkun ara ha, ta ti 
ll^un ara, Ikua like (ikua umm).t 

Ikam tahki, ha ssin 4, e sha ha, sha ha, sha ha, 
Igeya ha ; ha la e kue ha jgu ; e koa, e Ikua jkun 
( ) ha, e ti jkd u. 

Ikam tahki, e ssin ha, ha 6wa llgu, — jkan llgu, — 

f * r r 

e t'uima ha, e *in e shin llgu, 4 ssin ha tan-a, ha 
(5wa llgu, ha ti ssin e, ha ti shako u llgu, ta ti shu 
y a, e ( ) ti +in e tae-amm ha, ha ti la ha jgu kue 
4, e ti she, 4 ti u, ta ha Ine-e ti shu. 

f 

Ta zau ti Ige, zau ssin ha, ta ti kuarra +n6, ta 
ti H^uh ; ta ha ti sh4 ; J ta ti shiiwa ha jgu kue 
Ta. Ta zau ti jkun ha, ( ) ti ll^uh ha. 

Dzhu tahki ti Ilk4, e Ikua sa-a ssin +nua,J e ssin 

^ t ~ t t 

llhin, ti Id ha jgu kue 4, e ti kod llhin, ta ti tchin. 

* Ta ti oywi dzhu e, he geya tchuwa, ta ti kue: "IN' a ssin 

llhin, ta +ne-ahim llhin, ta llhin llna, ta la me kue ha jgu; ta 
~ ~ r 

h a koa llhin, ta Ikua jkun llhin, ta jka u." Ta za'ussin +khi ti 
sa-a, ti tchin. 

f Ta Ikam tahki, ha shu dzha, e ti sh£o ha, ta ti Jnu-arra 
ha llkha, ta ti like ha Inoo ; la Goba kue ha Inoo. 

t Ha ti ssin zau, ha ti e ha jgu. Ha ti ssin zau +no, ha 
ti koa; ta zau ti tabba +no kue Inai +khi; ta llkhu dzha; ka 
+a +gaan. 

* And (we) tell the people who are at home, and say: " I saw 
a Whin, and struck the Whin ; and the Whin objected, and gave me 
its belly; and I was afraid of the Whin, and did not kill the Whin, 
hut ran away." And many women hear, (and) cry. 

f And, another day, (when) it lies nicely [not turning up its 
belly at us, in a hollow manner, while it lies on its back], we skin 



1. Ngu6. A small tree bearing edible fruit, 

which is eaten raw. 

2. Wg&i llca, A plant or small bush, with 

edible fruit, which is eaten raw. 

S t Hollow in the tree where rain-water has 
collected. 

A Mouths of ditto. 

5. Pieces of grass used for drinking out the 
water from the hollow of the tree. 

I tiaritii, June 2 fbth, 1880, 










A little child asleep during the heat of the sun, in the shade of a tree (!>*)• 
mi, Jan. 25th, 1880 . 





. i9 | Found in the " Benza " country. 

j gah igannishe j (The fruit is boiled and eaten.) 

I nanni, Dee. 13 th, 1879. 






bag (the dead man's bag which is placed underneath his head)* ( the dead person* 

Mgabbe, 

the° little chamber or hole at the side of the grave* where the body is placed. \nanni, July 20th, 1880 







1 

S3 


'S 

•8 

a 


§ 

•43 



1 


TS 


§ 

I 


© 



© 



© 











1 


Pi M 


& £ 








A wild animal which eats A fish, called \hdrro . A tall tree which hears sweet- 

the antelope, also Bushman smelling flowers, 

women and old men. Tamm#, Jma 17th, 1881 . 




TRANSLATION OF IKUN TEXTS. 


433 


gives us its belly, we fear it, and go away, and return 
home; while (we) do not kill* it. For (we) let (it) 
alone ; and it lies, lies, lies ; arises, (and) goes away 
altogether. 

And, another day, (if) we see it (and) ( ) it does (9953) 
not give us its belly, we beat it, we kill it altogether, 
and throw (it) altogether away ; (we) do not keep (it) 

[do not eat itj.'j* 

Another day, (when) it sees us, (as) we approach 
it, approach it, approach it, (and) reach it, (and) 
it gives us its belly, we are afraid, we do not kill 
( ) it, we run away. (9954) 

Another day, we see it, (when) it is in the water — 
tree water J — we are near it, we think that we will 
drink water, we see its body, (when) it is in the 
water, (and) it sees us, it quickly (?) goes out of 
the water, and lies upon the ground. We ( ) think (9955) 
that we will strike it, (and) it gives us its belly, 
we turn back, we go away, and it alone lies (there). 

And (if) a woman comes (and) the woman sees it, 

(she) unloosens (her) skin necklace, and (gently) lays 
(it) down; and it turns, § and lays its belly upon 
the earth. And the woman kills it, and ( ) throws (9 95 6 ) 
it away. 

(If) another person dies, (and) we have not heard 
his news, || (and) we see the II hm turning its belly 
towards us, we are afraid of the Whin, and cry. 


it, and throw away its flesh ; and keep its skin ; give the Makoba 
its skin. 

J Namely, that which is in the hollow of a tree. (9954) 

§ It sees the woman, it does thus with its belly. It sees the (9955 J ) 
woman's skin necklace, it is afraid ; for the woman has worked V 
the necklace with plenty of fat; and (it) smells good; its scent 
being powerful (lit. "long", i.e., reaching a long way). 


|| The words II numm and $ma both 


mean " news 


" tidings 
2 F 


(9956') 


434 


APPENDIX. 


Dr. Bleek's Beport, etc., regarding Photographs 
sent to England by Government December 23, 
1871. # 

Notes to accompany the Photographs. 

Of the ten Natives photographed by Messrs. Lawrence 
and Selkirk, in conformity with Professor Huxley's 
instructions, five are Bushmen, two Damaras, one 
a Koranna, one a Colonial Hottentot, and one a Kafir. 
In this set of photographs there are, therefore, 
represented the three distinct races of men (and 
families of language) extant in South Africa; viz., 
the Bantu (in the Kafir and the Damara), the 
Hottentot , and the Bushman. It is to be regretted 
that no Betshuana (Basuto, Barolong, Mahaua, &c.) 
were within our reach, as, in that case, the three 
nations of the Bdntu race which live nearest to the 
Cape Colony would have been represented. The 
Betshuana are a nation quite distinct from the Kafirs, 
although nearer akin to them than the Kafirs are to 
the Damara (Ovahererd) or other more northern 
nations. Whilst the Kafirs and Damaras, like the 
Hottentots, live in bee-hive shaped huts, the dwellings 
of the Betshuana are of a more pretentious character ; 
and, upon the whole, the Betshuana have reached 
a higher degree of aboriginal civilization than their 
neighbours and next cousins, the Kafirs. 

To characterize the three native races of South 
Africa shortly : 

The Bantu (Kafirs, Betshuana, Damara, and all 
other negroes dwelling to the South of the Equator) 
are agricultural and pastoral polygamists, mostly 
living under hereditary chiefs, addicted to ancestor 

[* Copied from Draught Report.] 


REPORT REGARDING PHOTOGRAPHS. 


435 


worship, speaking euphonious polysyllabic Prefix- 
pronominal languages, eminently prosaic in their 
ideas and literature, and possessing a decimal system 
of counting which is however very clumsy in its 
application. 

The Hottentots or Khoi khoi (Namaqua, Koranna, 
as well as many other tribes now extinct) are 
a pastoral nation, occasionally polygamous, ruled 
by hereditary chiefs, worshipping in former days 
the moon, speaking a clicking monosyllabic Sex- 
denoting language, poetical in their ideas, with 
a traditionary literature full of myths and fables, 
and with a decimal system of counting which is of 
easier application than the Bantu one. 

The Bushmen are a hunting race, strictly mono- 
gamous, without chiefs, worshipping moon, sun, and 
stars, speaking a most harsh clicking and guttural 
monosyllabic language (which is not now but may 
possibly once have been Sex-denoting), poetical in 
their ideas, with an extensive mythological traditionary 
literature, and with a binal system of counting, which 
has however no names for numbers beyond the third. 

It is possible that the Bushmen and Hottentots 
were originally one race, and that their languages are 
of common descent ; but in any case they must have 
had a separate existence for many thousands of years ; 
and until their relationship has been proved (which is 
not yet the case) it will be most in accordance with 
scientific principles to consider them as distinct races, 
with languages which have no traceable relationship 
with each other. 

That in physical appearance both Bushmen and 
Hottentots are nearer akin to each other than either 
of them is to the Kafir and Negro, is well known. 


436 


APPENDIX. 


As regards the difference in appearance between 
Hottentots and Bushmen, I will only remark that it 
is so marked as, in rare instances only, to leave one 
in doubt regarding the nationality of an individual of 
either nation. The Bushman ear deserves particular 
notice in this respect. Its smallness and the almost 
absence of an outer lobe distinguish it very strikingly 
from that of the Koranna, at all events, the only 
Hottentot tribe which is represented by many 
individuals at the Breakwater Convict Station. Once 
standing in the middle of a group of Korannas, 
I mustered them for the purpose of selecting 
a suitable subject to be photographed, — I remarked 
one with a Bushman ear, and with a conformation 
of head unlike that of the Korannas. I said at once 
" You are no Koranna ? you are a Bushman." 
" Yes," he answered, "but I was brought up among 
the Korannas since I was a little child." 

The Bushmen represented here, belong mostly to 
the Strontbergen (Lat. 30° South, Long. 22° East of 
Greenwich) and to the near neighbourhood of these 
mountains, or to the country intervening between 
them and Kenhart, particularly to the Hartebeest 
River. A few only had been living at greater 
distances to the West of the Strontbergen. Those 
from other localities may be somewhat different in 
their physical appearance ; but, as far as I have been 
able to ascertain, all real Bushmen * speak the same 
language with dialectical variations. 

* There are some so-called Bushmen, who are merely impoverished 
individuals of other nations (Koranna, Betshuana, &c.) who 
having lost their cattle have entered on the life of Bushmen. 
These, of course, do neither physically, nor in language, and ideas, 
belong to the Bushman nation. 




BUSHMEN, a. 

Photographed at the Breakwater Convict Station, Cape Town, about 1871. 



KEA XO OKOflB 










Same men as the nrer.erling 








Photographed at the Breakwater , 1871. 


REPORT REGARDING PHOTOGRAPHS. 


437 


To the anthropologist it will be of interest to know 
exactly the kind of relationship or blood sanguinity 
which exists between the different Bushmen here 
photographed. To illustrate this clearly, I have 
added as full tables of their ancestors as I could 
ascertain.* These genealogical tables have been 
tested, and I have no doubt that in almost every 
instance they are reliable. Their very existence will, 
no doubt, help to set aside many erroneous ideas 
entertained regarding this nation, and its social 
relations, or rather its alleged want of regular social 
relations. 

Besides the five Bushmen photographed according 
to Professor Huxley's directions, by Messrs. Lawrence 
and Selkirk, an excellent photograph has been taken 
by them of a group of ten Bushmen at the Breakwater. 
Amongst these a very old man is particularly worthy 
of attention (fig. 3 Oud Toontje) who is the father 
of the Bushman (II. Ho. 5-10 Coos Toontje) whose 
photograph was used as a sample enclosed in the 
circular, and who is himself again represented in 
fig. 9 of the Group. Also fig. 1 of the Group 
pictures one of the young Bushmen who has also 
been photographed according to Professor Huxley's 
directions, viz. (Y. Ho. 19-22), Marcus. In this way 
a standard of measurement is supplied to the Group, 
of which several other members stand in some 
relationship to one or another of the Bushmen 
individually photographed. The same remark 
applies to three other Bushmen photographed by 
Mr. Barnard, — which although not in complete 

[ # It is much to be regretted that the genealogical tables, together 
with the whole of the photographs here referred to by Dr. Bleek, 
could not be reproduced with this Report.] 


438 


APPENDIX. 


accordance with Professor Huxley's directions (they 
were partly done before their receipt) are yet 
sufficiently near to help in illustrating the 
characteristics of this remarkable race. For most of 
the remarks on the mental and bodily characteristics 
of the Natives represented in the Group I am 
indebted to the kindness of the Rev. G. H. R. Fisk, 
Chaplain at the Breakwater Convict Station. 

On the suggestion of His Excellency Sir Henry 
Barkly, K.C.B., a few measurements (round the 
chest, &c.) have been added, where they still could 
be supplied. These measurements had not been 
mentioned in Professor Huxley's circular letter, and 
so had not been taken at first. This will explain 
their being wanting in several instances. 

Regarding the pronunciation of the unusual signs 
which had to be employed in writing the Bushman 
names, the following remarks will be sufficient : — 

T indicates the dental click 
,, palatal click 
,, cerebral click 
„ lateral click 
,, labial click 

an aspirated guttural, like German ch 
a strong croaking sound in the throat 
a gentle croaking sound in the throat 
the nasal pronunciation of a syllable. 

It is to be regretted that no females could as yet 
be photographed; as without them the collection is 
for anthropological purposes very incomplete. But 
upon the whole the photographs here given must 
only be considered as a first attempt which will 
shew what can be done here. A complete collection 
would not only require that females and children 


y 

D 


UNDATED MANUSCRIPT FRAGMENT. 


439 


should be included; but also that several of the 
nations as yet wholly unrepresented, as Betshuana, 
Fingus, Zulus, Namaqua, should he added ; and some 
others of whom only one individual is represented 
here (as Koranna and Kafir) should be portrayed in 
several individuals of different ages and sexes. 


An undated manuscript fragment found among 
Dr. Bleek's papers, apparently written 
BETWEEN 1870 AND 1873. 

If I am to state in a few words my present 
impressions regarding the affinity of Bushman and 
Hottentot, it is that they stand to each other pretty 
much in the same relation as French and German. 
As these two languages which are both descendants 
of the common Aryan stock, have become quite 
unlike each other in almost every feature, thus 
also Hottentot and Bushman, though at a remote 
period of some thousands of years branched off from 
a common stock. 


Cape of Good Hope. 

Beport of Dr. Bleek concerning his Besearches 
into the Bushman Language and Customs, 

PRESENTED TO THE HONOURABLE THE HOUSE OF 

Assembly by command of His Excellency the 
Governor. 

Printed by Order of the House of Assembly, 
May, 1873. 

Mowbray, 15th April, 1873. 
The Honourable the Secretary for Native Affairs. 

Sir, — I have the honour herewith to lay before 
you, for the information of His Excellency the 


440 


APPENDIX. 


Governor and the Legislature, a report concerning 
the progress of the Bushman studies. 

From this report it will be seen that special 
facilities have been afforded by the Colonial 
Government for an inquiry into the only kind of 
South African language as yet unexplored. And 
I have gladly given my time and strength for an 
object which appeared to me of sufficient importance 
to render me willing to delay on its account the 
prosecution of my main work, the Comparative 
Grammar of South African Languages. 

The expenses which I had incurred in this inquiry, 
up to the end of the year 1871, were repaid to me 
last year by a Parliamentary Grant of <£100. I had 
then estimated the expenditure to be incurred by 
me on this account, in 1872, at £100 more. But 
from the non-arrival of the wives of the Bushmen 
(whom I was then expecting), the expenditure for 
1872 was about £35 less than I had calculated 
that it would be, namely, £64 18$. To this sum 
is to be added £16 for expenses already incurred 
during the present year, to the 31st of March, 
making in all about £80 18$. for expenses incurred 
by me from 1st January, 1872, to 31st March, 1873. 

I respectfully solicit you to recommend that His 
Excellency the Governor may be pleased to allow 
this further sum to be refunded to me, or to make 
some provision for its repayment. 

At the same time I beg to draw your attention to 
the existence, in the collection under my charge in 
the Library, of a number of manuscripts containing 
Native Literature in different South African languages. 

The publication of these documents, most of which 
are accompanied by a translation, would throw much 


BUSHMAN REPORT OF 1873. 


441 


light upon the workings of the native mind in the 
different nations living in or near to the Colony. 
May I recommend this subject to the gracious 
consideration of Her Majesty's Government, and 
mention, in connection with it, that in the small 
Colony of Natal the sum of £200 per annum was 
granted for several years to the Rev. H. Callaway, 
M.D., towards the expenses of printing the Zulu 
native literature which had been collected by himself. 

But your own well-known interest in, and knowledge 
of, the native races * renders it quite unnecessary for 
me to say anything further to you regarding the 
importance of this subject. 

I have, &c., 

W. H. I. Bleek, Ph.D. 


Report concerning Bushman Researches, by 
W. H. I. Bleek, Ph.D. 

The oldest, and until late years, the only, materials 
for a knowledge of the Bushman Language, were the 
short vocabularies and few sentences published by 
the traveller, Dr. H. Lichtenstein. These were, 
probably, mainly obtained from those missionaries 
who at the beginning of this century were working 
among the Bushmen, some of them in connection 
with the London Missionary Society, and others sent 
out by a Dutch Society. In the original edition of 
Lichtenstein's book of Travels, these vocabularies stand 
by the side of his Koranna Hottentot vocabularies 
and phrases, on about eight pages octavo. 

2. In 1857, I tested Lichtenstein's vocabulary, by 

[* Mr. C. Brownlee, M.L.A., was at that time Secretary for 
Native Affairs.] 


442 


APPENDIX. 


examining a few Bushmen and Bushwomen from the 
neighbourhoods of Colesberg and Burghersdorp, who 
were at that time at Robben Island, and in the 
Cape Town Gaol and House of Correction. The 
result of this examination was the discovery that 
the different Bushman dialects spoken within this 
Colony vary very little from each other, and that 
one language, quite different from Hottentot, is 
spoken by all these Bushmen. The words thus 
ascertained were incorporated in a Manuscript 
Comparative "Vocabulary of the Dialects of the 
Hottentots and Bushmen ", forming Ho. 36 of 
Sir George Grey's Library. 

3. In 1858, the Rev. C. E. Wuras presented to 
Sir George Grey a short Manuscript Grammar of the 
Bushman language, on eight pages quarto. Sir George 
took this manuscript with him to England in 1859, 
but it did not return with him in 1860, nor did it 
arrive here with the main bulk of his library in 
1863. It is probably now at Kauwau, Hew Zealand; 
but Sir George has promised to send us either the 
manuscript itself, or a copy of it. 

4. In 1861, the Rev. G. Kronlein sent a few words 
and sentences of another (Transgariepian) dialect of 
the Bushman language. The MS., of seven pages 
octavo, is in the Grey Library ; and this material has 
been worked out by me in an exhaustive Concordance 
of sixty-five pages folio. 

5. About five years later (in 1866), an opportunity 
was afforded me of examining two Bushman prisoners 
from the Achterveld, who were transferred for this 
purpose, by the order of His Excellency Sir P. E. 
Wodehouse, from the Breakwater to the Town Prison. 
The words and sentences then collected (mainly from 


BUSHMAN EEPOET OF 1873 . 


443 


the lips of the elder of these two men) fill about 
sixty-six pages quarto; whilst an English index to 
these phrases occupies forty-eight pages folio, and 
an alphabetical vocabulary of those Bushman words, 
which contain no click, is on twenty-five further 
pages folio. Some remarks upon the language, based 
upon these materials, are to be found in my paper 
on " The Bushman Language," pp. 269-284 of " The 
Cape and its People," Cape Town, 1869. 

6. In 1870, the presence of twenty-eight Bushmen 
at the Breakwater afforded an unprecedentedly rare 
opportunity of obtaining good instructors in the 
language. On the recommendation of the Rev. G. 
Fisk, the best-behaved Bushman boy was selected, 
and in August of that year, he was placed with 
me for this purpose by Her Majesty's Colonial 
Government. This experiment was found to answer ; 
but it was taken into consideration that one young 
Bushman alone, would soon lose a good deal of 
accuracy in speaking his mother-tongue, and, further, 
that the boy in question could relate hardly any 
of the numerous tales and fables which are met 
with in the traditionary literature of this nation. 
On these grounds His Excellency Sir Henry Barkly 
was pleased to direct that one of the most intelligent 
of the old Bushmen should join the other. Both are 
still with me. Their term of penal servitude expired 
in the middle of the year 1871 ; and they have since 
remained of their own free will. In order to achieve 
the object of these inquiries (a thorough knowledge 
of the Bushman language and literature), the presence 
of these men (or other Bushmen) is necessary for 
several years ; at least four ; — two and a half of which 
have already expired. And soon after the arrival 


444 


APPENDIX. 


of the elder Bushman, I took steps to ascertain the 
whereabouts of their wives, in order to induce them 
to join their husbands. But although inquiries have 
been made in many different directions, they have 
as yet led to no result, — and I therefore fear that ere 
long one or both of the Bushmen will leave me. 

7. What has been written down from the lips of the 
Bushmen, consists of more than four thousand columns 
(half pages quarto) of text, besides a dozen genealogical 
tables, and other genealogical, geographical, and 
astrological, &c., notices. The following is a general 
analysis of the texts which have been collected, — with 
regard to which it is to be remarked that the pages 
under the letter B refer to texts collected by myself, 
and those under L to collections made for me.* 

^ # # # * 

8. The above texts are, to a great extent, already 
accompanied by as literal an English translation as 
could yet be achieved. The further process of 
translation will be materially facilitated by the 
dictionaries in course of preparation. An English - 
Bushman Vocabulary of 142 pages, and a Bushman- 
English one of 600 pages folio contain the results 
of the earlier studies, which are now being greatly 
modified and corrected by our better knowledge of 
the language. Of the texts, more than a dozen 
stories are as yet unfinished, and in the course of 
dictation, although some of them already extend over 
more than some hundreds of pages. 

9. The main importance of this Bushman literature 

[* The list of texts collected, given by Dr. Bleek in the above 
report, was later embodied by him in one sent in in 1875, and 
is, therefore, for reasons of space, omitted here.] 


BUSHMAN REPORT OF 1873 . 


445 


lies in the mythological character of the stories under 
I.— III., in which animals and heavenly objects are 
personified. In this characteristic the Bushman 
literature shows a marked difference from that of 
the Bantu nations (Kafirs, Betsuana, Damara, &c.) 
who have legends, but, strictly speaking, no 
mythologies. The Bushman literature most nearly 
resembles that of their neighbours the Hottentots, 
and also that of the most primitive mythological 
stages of other more northern nations, whose 
languages either are sex- denoting, or may have 
branched off from the Sex-denoting languages, losing 
the sex-denoting characteristics. To this latter class 
of languages the Bushman also seems to belong, 
and (in contradistinction to the Hottentot, in which 
the gender of the nouns is everywhere clearly marked 
by the endings and maintained by the concord), it 
has no genders which have any reference to the 
distinctions of sex. If it ever were sex- denoting, 
it has now lost those signs of gender which so 
clearly mark the grammatical gender in Hottentot. 
Instead of eight different forms for each pronoun, as 
in Hottentot (masculine singular, feminine singular, 
common singular, masculine plural, feminine plural, 
common plural, masculine dual, and common dual), — 
the Bushman has only two forms, one which is 
only used in the singular (ha u he, she, it," a, 
" which, who, that") and another which is mainly 
used for the plural (hi u they," e , " which, who, 
that"). I say purposely " mainly used for the 
plural," for, curiously enough, the plural form is 
frequently employed in Bushman, where we should 
use the singular, and where, in fact, the singular 
is indicated by the Bushman himself, by the addition 


446 


APPENDIX. 


of the first numeral, or some other clearly singular 
form. The fact seems to be that there are in 
Bushman two classes of nouns in the singular, viz., 
one which has the forms ha and d, &c., for its 
corresponding pronouns, and the other with the 
forms hi and e ; — whilst the plural of both classes 
has only the one form for each pronoun, — this being 
at the same time one which outwardly agrees with 
the second form of the singular.*' 

Again, in the formation of the plural of nouns 
in the Hottentot, great regularity prevails, and the 
endings of nouns in the singular number (indicating 
at the same time their gender) are exchanged, in 
the plural and dual, for other corresponding endings. 
Thus Hottentot nouns terminating in -b or -p (masc. 
sing.) generally have in the plural the ending -ku 
(masc. plur.), and in the dual the ending -kha 
( masc. dual). Likewise nouns ending in -s (fern, 
sing.) usually exchange this in the plural for the 
termination -ti (fern, plur.), and in the dual for -ra 
(comm. dual). The common singular termination -i 
similarly gives place in the plural to the ending 
-n or -in (comm, plur.), and in the dual to the 
ending -ra (comm. dual). There are few exceptions 
to the regularity of these grammatical changes in 
Hottentot. In Bushman, on the contrary, the greatest 
irregularity prevails with regard to the forms of the 
plural of the nouns, and from fifty to sixty different 
ways of forming the plural occur, at the least, in 
this language. It seems as if the most original form 
here were a reduplication of the noun, and that 

* This is the only trace as yet found of that division of the 
nouns into classes which is effected by the concord. 


BUSHMAN REPORT OF 1873 . 


447 


this reduplication (more or less abbreviated), together 
with the use of certain other particles or variations 
of the stem of the noun, has given rise to the great 
multiplicity of the forms. 

With these striking grammatical differences, both 
languages possess many obvious traits in common. 
The vocative e.g. is formed in Bushman with the 
ending - we , and in Hottentot by a terminal -e added 
to the pronoun of the second person. 

The exclusive form of the prefixed pronoun of the 
first person plural (" we," i.e., "I and he, she, it, or 
they," excluding the person addressed) is identical in 
Hottentot and Bushman. 

The relative form of the verb (corresponding to the 
Kafir one in - ela ) is in Hottentot formed by the suffix 
-5a, and in Bushman by the suffix -a. 

The reduplication of the stem of a verb, in 
Hottentot, as well as in Bushman, can be used to 
give the verb a causative or transitive meaning. 

There are many other similarities in structure, and 
there are also a good many words which appear to 
be of common origin. Of these, however, a number 
at once appear to be only foreign words in one 
of these languages, introduced from the other in 
consequence of the contiguity of the two nations. 
Such, for example, are the numerous abstract terms 
which the Bushman has evidently adopted from the 
Hottentot, as the verbs " to learn," " to teach," 
"to know," "to write," &c. There remains, how- 
ever, a large number of other words, which probably 
have not been taken over from one language to the 
other, but have descended from a common source. 
But, as the principles of correspondence between 
the sounds of the two languages have not yet been 


448 


APPENDIX. 


ascertained, no safe comparison on a firm scientific 
basis can at present be established. 

On the whole, we may safely conclude that the 
Bushman language is certainly not nearer akin to 
the Hottentot than e.g. the English language is to 
the Latin ; but it may be that the distance between 
Bushman and Hottentot is indeed far greater than 
between the two above-mentioned languages. 


INDEX * 


A. 

About: 150-42. 

Abundance: 81, 83, 233. 

Account or, on: 148-19. 
Accusative case, examples of : 144 
and 145-lc. and 5., 146-6. 
Adjectives, plubal of: 153-87. 
Adventub.es with animals : 255 to 
269. 

Adveebs with the fobm of veebs : 
152-65. 

Afteenoon : 365. 

Afteewaeds: 152-65. 

Again, do: 152-65. 

Agama , lizaed of the genus: 215, 
217, 319 ( see illustrations ). 

Aim, the missing of one's : 83, 
277, 281. 

Along: 149-35 and 36. 

Altaie: 79. 

Alteeative case, examples of : 
145—1 <?. and 5. 

Ancient Japanese, Mythology of : 
280. 

Ancient Eace, The Young Man of 

THE, WHO WAS CAEEIED OFF BY 

a Lion, when asleep in the 
Field : 175 to 191 ( see also 
Early Race, and First Bushmen). 

And: 146-11. 

Angee: 91, 149-40, 167, 169, 199, 
213, 308. 

Angey people : 367. 

Animal Fables: 121 to 172. 
Animals and theie Habits : 243 
to 255 ; 

adventures with them, 255 to 269. 
Anklet: 87. 

Anointing : 

with a person's scent, 35 ; 
with the contents of the stomach, 
95; 

* The \Jcun texts and Dr. Bleek's papers, 
this Index. 


with perspiration, 27 ; 
compared with rubbing, 197 ; 
with fat, 345 ; 
with I! hara, 375 to 379. 

Ants' eggs ( see Bushman rice ) : 98. 
Appabitions, Conceening two : 365 
to 371. 

Aquilae, Alpha and Gamma: 79. 
Aem : 13,15, 83, 291, 293, 299, 303; 
fending with the, 115; 

Decayed, 125 ; 
declension of, 150-50; 
male and female, 329. 

Aempit : 

perspiration of, 27, 85 ; 
of sun, 45 to 51, 55. 

Abound: 151-53. 

Aeeow, aeeows ( see illustrations ) : 
wound, 5, 13 ; 
of Mantis, 25 ; 
heads, 227 ; 
to sharpen an, 83 ; 
of Dawn's-Heart Star, 97 ; 
declension of, 152-72 ; 
of Mason Wasp, 171 ; 
grow out of spring, 203, 205 ; 
influenced by various things, 77, 
79,273,277; 

springbok have magic, 277 ; 
poisoned, 5, 283 ; 
noise of, 287 ; 
used by | \kdhho, 295 ; 
hag for, 313 ; 
held in right hand, 329 ; 
made by men, 347 ; 
adhesive substance used in 
making, 363 ; 

The Marking of, 361 and 363. 
Ascend, to: Id 9-32. 

Ashes : 

stars made of, 7 3 to 7 7 ; 
of fire, 365. 

given in the Appendix, are not included in 

2 G 


450 


INDEX 


Assegai: 93, 97, 98, 189, 308. 
Autumn: 315. 

Auxiliary verb : 150-43., 152-64., 
155-94. 

Aware, be: 150-44. 

Away: 146-9., 148-22., 152-66. 
Axe: 347. 

B. 

Baboon, baboons : , 

the Mantis, his son, J gaunu- 

tsa^rn, and the, 17 to 37 ; 
speech of, 17 ; 
songs of, 17 to 23 ; 
a root eaten by, 7 6 ; 
and || xahliten Wxdbbiten, The, 
255 to 259°; 
name of leader, 257. 

Back : 

of mantis as hartebeest, 5, 9, 13, 
15 ' . 

declension of, 151-63 ; 
of head, hollow at the, 11, 177, 
357; 

top of the, 349 ; 
of neck, 281, 333 ; 
kaross of, 209, 21 1 ; 
sensation in, before killing spring- 
bok, 335. 

Backbone: 51, 53. 

Bag: 27, 29, 31, 207, 209, 225, 281, 
311, 313, 343, 351, 355, 377. 
Ball : 

game of, played by baboons, 23 
to 29, 33, 257; 

rolled by the son of the Wind, 
101, 103 ; 

used as an adjective, 154-87. 
Bank, oe water : 31, 139, 151-63. 
Barrow : 293. 

Barter: 375, 377. 

Bask in the sun, to : 150-52. 
Bastaards : 109 to 113, 307. 

Bat and the Porcupine, Habits 
of the : 247 to 253. 

Be aware of, 150-44 ; 

equal to, identical, 151-57 ; 
in, 152-74. 


Beast of prey: 67, 87, 239, 247. 
Beat, to: 153-86. 

B eating of the flesh : 330 and 331. 
Beaufort (West) : 293. 

Beauty : 395. 

Because: 148-19, 151-55. 

Become, to : 150-46. 

Bed: 227; 

of river, 11, 13, 107, 217, 293, 
315, 335. 

Bees : 353, 355. 

Belly: 153-79. 

Bergbushmen: 144-1#. 

Berry: 225, 227, 345, 353. 

Big: 154-87. 

Bigness: 257. 

Bill: 213. 

Biltong flesh: 60, 61, 163. 

Birds : 

the bine crane, 85, 224, 225, 227 
( see illustrations ) ; 
the black crow, 85 ; 
the bustard orknorhaan, 153-86, 
233, 311 {see illustrations ) ; 
the ostrich, 53, 87, 127 to 137, 
137 to 145, 145-3, 147-18, 
149-30, 151-60, 153-75, 213, 
261, 275 to 279, 285, 307, 
314, 315, 333 to 337, 359, 
361 ; 

the vulture, 155 to 163 ; 
the Saxicola Castor , 255 ; 
the \kuerre\kuerre , 109 ; 
the =[: kagara , 113; 
the 4 -nerru, 207 to 215 {see illus- 
tration) ; 

the wind is a, 107, 109 ; 
little, 209, 213, 255 ; 
the Hammerkop, 391, 393. 
"Birds of South Africa," 391. 
Bitterpits : 299. 

Black: 151-59, 299, 335, 337, 
117, 213, 375 to 379 ; 

Crow, the, 85. 

Blauwputs : 307. 

Blood: 115, 137, 148-21, 279, 
335, 337, 347. 

Blossoms (?) : 153-83. 

Blow, to : 148-29. 


INDEX. 


451 


Blue Crane, the : 85, 224, 225, 
227 ( see illustrations ). 

Body: 15, 148-26., 153-86., 157, 
171, 305, 309, 313, 317, 331, 
333, 375, 377. 

Bone, bones: 139, 141, 149-40., 
161, 309, 347 ; 

The Treatment of, 275 to 285 ; 
used for smoking, 293 ; 

The Shaped Bib-, 345, 349. 

Books: 331. 

Boot ( see also Shoe) : 315. 

Bow {for shooting ) : 19, 27, 79, 97, 
171, 273, 329. 

Boy: 133, 277, 329, 337. 

Bkacelet: 87, 93. 

Branch: 383, 385. 

Break, to: 149-40. 

Breakwater Conyict Station, The : 
293. 

Breast: 139, 153-79, 171. 

Breastbone : 139, 141, 153-80., 
274 to 279. 

Breath: 193, 269. 

Brinkkop : 

Bushmen, 146-8. ; 
mountain, 332 to 337. 

Broken String, The : 237. 

Brother: 9, 49, 150-41., 205, 
307, 335, 339, 367, 383. 

Brother-in-law: 113-117,233. 

Brush, Brushes: 27, 285, 287; 
used in Springbok Hunting, 
Preparation of the Feather, 
359, 361. 

Buchu: 117, 195, 197. 

Bulb: 231. 

Bull, A Woman of the Early 
Bace and the Bain: 193 to 
199. 

Bullroarer {see \goih\goin) : 353, 
355. 

Burdens: 5, 113. 

Burial, mention of: 308, 365, 367. 

Bush, bushes: 3, 5, 11, 19, 53, 
65, 67, 139, 153-83. and 85., 
165, 215, 245, 251, 263, 275, 
279, 285, 311, 335, 349, 369, 
371, 381, 399 ; 


house of, 55 ; 

screen of, 103, 105, 109, 111, 
185, 283. 

Bushman, Bushmen : 

parsing of name for, 144-1$. ; 
different kinds of, 9, 54, 55, 57, 
128, 129, 144-1$., 146-8., 

227, 301 ; 

of Early Bace (First), 37, 54, 55, 
57, 73, 89, 155, 163, 175, 193, 
205, 207, 215, 224, 239 ; 
language, 9, 113, 144-1$., 301 ; 
letters, 331; 

"Folk-lore and other Texts, 
A Brief Account of," 96, 331 ; 
" A Glimpse into the Mythology 
of the Maluti," 19 ; 
names of places, 109, 307, 323, 
332; 

ownership of land, 307 ; 
mode of treating bones, 275 to 
285; 

implements of, 3, 227, 345, 347, 
349; 

beds of, 227, 259 ; 
musical instruments of, 321 to 
325, 351 to 357; 

"Women, A Song sung by J gaunu 
and by, 231 ; 

Presentiments, 331 to 339; 

Soup Spoon, The, 349 {see 
illustration ) ; 

Dance, An Account of a, 353 to 
359; 

Guiding Signs of, 381 to 385 ; 
Dust signals of, 385 to 389. 

Bushman rice : 

dried by the sun, 45, 47, 51 ; 
resemblance to Yhaken , 85 ; 
eaten by Lynx, 98 ; 
sought for and dug out, 199, 201, 
207 to 211, 341 ; 
preserved in ostrich eggshell, 
261 ; 

carried by Canopus, 339 ; 
influenced by dreams, 365. 

Bustard {knorhaan) : 153-86., 311 ; 
The Song of the, 233 ; 

Butcher-Bird, the : 113. 


452 


INDEX. 


C. 

Caama Fox, The Song of the : 
223, 225. 

Calf: 199. 

Call : 

of ostrich, 129 ; 
of bustard, 233 ; 
of springbok, 245. 

Canopus : 

prayer to, 83 ; 

and Sirius ( song ), 231, 233 ; 

names for, 338 ; 

and Sirius come out, Doings and 
Prayers when, 339, 341. 

Cap: 367. 

Cape, The: 295. 

" Cape Monthly Magazine," 
Article in the: 19. 

Cape Town, II hallo's Capture and 
Journey to: 291 to 297. 

Carry, to: 146-8. 

Cart ( see also Wagon) : 317. 

Cases found in Bushman: 145-1 c. 
and 5., 146-6. 

Castor , The Saxicola , and the 
Wild cat: 255. 

Cat, The Saxicola Castor and the 
Wild : 255. 

Cat's Song, The: 221, 223. 

Causative yerbs : 151-61., 152-71., 
153-76. and 78., 155-93. 

Caye, The Man who found a Lion 
in a : 261 to 269. 

Certain Hunting Obseryances 
called J ndnna-sse : 271 to 285. 

Chain, Bushmen fastened to a : 
293. 

Chest: 9, 129, 153-79., 165, 291, 
359. 

Child, Children : 
and Mantis, 3 to 17 ; 
of the Moon, 39, 51, 53 ; 

The Sun and the, 45 to 55 ; 

" Hartebeest's," 29 ; 
of Dawn's Heart, 85 to 98 ; 
feeding of, 127, 277 to 281 ; 
used as diminutive, 148-27 ; 
similar words to, 149-40, 1 53— 
86 ; 


of the ostrich, 145. 

Ldi-xerreten , the Lioness, and 
the, 163 to 169 ( see illustra- 
tion) ; 

thrown to lion, 187 to 191 ; 
holding, carrying, and laying 
down a, 193, 195, 295, 333; 
of the Water, 199 to 203 ; 
of the springbok, 235 ; 
who cry, eaten by \nu\numma- 
j kwiten : 239, 241 ; 
of the baboons, 257 ; 
a, saves sleeping parents from a 
lion, 259, 261 ; 

not to play on springbok skin, 
277 ; 

of WTcablo, 305 to 309 ; 
sent to fetch water and sticks, 
17 to 23, 313, 339, 341, 357, 
359; 

sent to look out, 333, 337 ; 
have their little fingers cut, 329, 
331 ; 

apparitions of, 367 to 371 ; 
may not eat the jackal's heart, 
373, 375. 

Classification of nouns: 147-15. 

Claw: 141. 

Clay Pots: 

The Making of, 343 to 347 ; 
use of, as drums, 351. 

Cliffs: 255, 259. 

Clouds: 1 13 to 1 19, 201 ; 

The Delations of, to Human 
Beings after Death, 397 to 
401. 

Coals, live: 361. 

Cold: 317, 339, 341. 

Colours mentioned by Bushmen : 
47, 75 to 77, 117, 151-59., 
198, 213, 227, 239, 281, 287, 
299, 307, 323, 335, 337, 343, 
359, 363. 

Come, to: 148-28, 149-36. and 38., 
155-94. 

Companion, Comrade : 49, 101, 103, 
119, 135. 

Conjunctions: 146-11., 148-19., 
151-55., 152-69. 


INDEX. 


453 


Conscious, be: 150-44. 

Consonants, change of, in par- 
ticles: 144-13. and c., 152-67. 

Consort, a: 146-12. 

Contents oe the stomach : 95, 279. 

Cooking, mention of: 61, 85, 123, 
133, 155, 157, 185, 201, 225, 
295, 311, 321, 347, 375. 

Cough: 245. 

Country of Bushmen: 55, 379. 

Cousin : 307. 

Cover of finger : 283. 

Coward : 375. 

Crane, the blue : 85, 224, 225, 
227 ( see illustrations). 

Crosser of the Spoor : 223. 

Crow, the black : 85. 

Cursing, 9, 155, 161, 169. 

Customs and Superstitions : 327 to 
401. 

Cutting off the top of the little 
finger: 329, 331. 

D. 

Dances : 

the ! M, 91, 93; 

the l^oo or ^gebbi-gu, 129, 131, 
355. 

An Account of a Bushman ; 355 
to 359. 

Dancing Battles: 351, 353 {see 
illustrations). 

Dark, darkness: 51, 75, 143,263, 
273, 323, 357, 387. 

Daughter: 15,203,211,213,291, 
295, 307, 331. 

Dawn: 81 . 

Dawn' s-He art Star, Jupiter, Yko- 
g\numtara, Wife of the : 85 
to 98. 

Day: 51, 69, 265, 267, 269, 271, 
273, 295, 297. 

Daybreak: 73, 357. 

Death : 

feigned by the Mantis, 3, 13, 15; 

of the Mantis' son, 23 ; 

The Origin of (Hare and Moon), 
57 to 65 ; 


of \haunu, 117; 

of lion, killed by hyena, 123 to 
127 ; 

of ostrich, killed by lion, 135 ; 
of ostrich, killed by a Bushman, 
137; 

of the Mason Wasp's Wife, 172 ; 
feigned to deceive a lion, 175 to 
179; 

of youug man and lion, 191 ; 
of the Lizard, 215 to 217, 316; 
of the hyena, 229 ; 
of a Bain-sorcerer, 236 ; 
of jackal, killed by leopard, 
245 ; 

of lion, burnt by a child, 261 ; 
man's escape from, 267 ; 
caused by magic arrows of spring- 
bok, 279 ; 

of Wlcabbo's relations, 307 to 309 ; 
of hares from heat, 311, 313 ; 
of a pet leveret, 319 to 321 ; 
beliefs concerning, 389 to 397 ; 
Belations of Wind, Moon, and 
Cloud to Human Beings after, 
397 to 401. 

Decay : 

of hands in the neck of the 
tortoise, 37 to 41 ; 
of the ostrich's nail, 129, 135. 

"Decayed Arm": 125. 

Declension, examples of : 

of nouns: 144-1 c., 145-3. and 
5., 146-10. and 12., 147-14., 
148-26. and 27., 149-40., 

150-48. and 50., 151-60., 62. 
and 63., 152-72., 153-79. 80. 
and 85., 154-88.; 
of pronouns, 146-6. ; 
of adjectives, 153-87. 

Deer: 280. 

Destruction: 169,277; 

Dialects of: 

Bergbushmen, 144-1$. ; 
Brinkkop Bushmen, 146-8; 
Elat-Bushmen, 9, 144-1$., 146-8; 
Katkop Bushmen, native litera- 
ture in the dialect of the, 36 to 
40, 56 to 68, 78, 80, 126 to 136, 


454 


INDEX. 


174 to 190, 198 to 204, 230, 
236, 246 to 252, 254 to 274, 
320 to 324, 364 to 370, 388 
to 400. 

DiaXkwain ( see illustrations ) : 
relations of: 66, 79, 126, 174, 
230, 236, 246, 254, 260, 270, 
365, 367, 369, 398; 
native literature given by, 56 to 
68, 78 to 80, 126 to 136, 174 
to 190, 230, 236, 246 to 253, 
254 to 258, 260 to 274, 320 
to 324, 364 to 370, 388 to 
400. 

Digging : 

of \haken , 85 ; 

-stick, 97, 361 (see illustrations ); 
of \kuisse, 185; 
of Bushman Bice, 207, 209 ; 
of bulbs, 231 ; 
of clay, 343. 

Diminutives: 148-27., 149-30., 
151-60. 

Direction: 163, 181, 183, 253, 
385. 

Dish : 275, 277. 

Distance : 265, 273, 275, 301, 

337, 393. 

Divination by means of shoulder 
blade : 280. 

Ddi-xerreten , the Lioness and the 
Children : 163 to 169 (see 

illustration). 

Dog, 59, 81, 223, 225, 281, 283, 
285, 373, 375. 

Doings : 65, 325, 387 ; 

of the Springbok, 245, 247 ; 
and Prayers, when Canopus and 
Sirius come out, 339, 341. 

Door, Doorway : 76, 195, 229, 
275. 

Doornboom : 345. 

Down: 149-38. 

Dream : 

of Mantis, 25 ; 

as name of a man, 54, 285 ; 

speaks falsely, 331 ; 

Mode of getting rid of the evil 
influence of bad, 365. 


Dress : 

of children, 15, 35 ; 
of Mantis, 27 ; 

of a woman, 87, 93, 195, 209, 
213, 341, 367. 

Driedoorn : 349, 359, 363. 

Drum, the: 351, 355, 357. 

Dry, to : 151—61. 

Dual: 147-12., 314. 

Dung : 345. 

Dust: 25, 105, 109, 111, 151-54., 
357, 385 to 389, 397. 

Dying : 385. 


E. 

Ear, Ears: 95, 97, 195, 253, 303, 
305, 351, 353 ; 

The Man who ordered his Wife 
to cut off his, 205 ; 

Piercing of the, 329. 

Early race of people : 37, 54, 55, 
57, 73, 89, 155, 163, 175, 
193, 205, 207, 215, 224, 227, 
239. 

Earring : 87. 

Earth : 51 to 57, 73, 75, 143, 207, 
209, 279, 293, 315, 343, 345, 
353, 385 to 389. 

East, the : 119. 

Eat, to : 148-25., 152-64. 

Edge of water: 139, 393. 

Egg, Eggs: 145-5., 239; 
of ostrich, 137, 141, 145 ; 
shell, 261, 313. 

Elbow : 47. 

Enter, to : 149-39., 150-45. 

Entrails : 209 to 213. 

Entrance of hut (see also Door) : 
275, 277, 279. 

Europeans, the (see also White 
men) : 109. 

Evil Influence of Bad Dreams, 
Mode of getting rid of the : 
365. 

Exclamations: 7, 9, 29, 31, 57, 
159, 163, 169, 172, 211, 323, 
365. 

Eye, Eyes: 7, 9, 13, 15, 23 to 37, 


INDEX. 


455 


81, 83, 97, 101, 123, 177, 
179, 187, 251, 323, 335, 339, 
345, 397, 399. 

Eyelashes: 179. 


E. 

Eables, Animal: 121 to 172. 

Eace: 57, 275, 299, 335, 357. 

Eall, to : 149-34, 36. and 38. 

Famine : 235. 

Eat: 37, 39, 345, 375. 

Father: 11, 13, 17, 35, 77, 79, 
91, 103, 105, 107, 203, 251, 
253, 257, 305 to 309, 323, 
325, 331, 333, 341, 387. 

Father-in-law : 285, 307. 

Fatigue: 15, 17, 225, 303, 313, 
389. 

Fault : 325. 

Fear: 311. 

Feather: 137 to 141, 147-14., 
149-30., 150-48., 151-58., 

213, 227; 

brush, 27 ; 

brashes, used in springbok 
hunting, 285, 287, 359 to 
361. 

Female: 141, 143, 329. 

Fighting: 23, 29, 115 to 1 19, 131, 
135, 145. 

Finger : 283 ; 

Cutting of the Top of the Little, 
329, 331. 

Fire: 5, 93, 97, 98, 233, 261, 
267, 295, 349, 361 to 365, 
393 ; 

for cooking: 123, 125, 185, 
347; 

people found by their, 165, 167, 
267, 309, 381 ; 

-wagon (train), 295, 299 ; 

pointed towards stars : 339, 341 . 

First Bushmen {see also Early 
Race ) : 55, 57, 205, 227. 

Fists: 23, 29, 59, 115. 

Flat Bushmen : 9, 54, 57, 144-1^., 
146-8., 301. 

Flesh: 5 to 15, 60, 61, 63, 123, 


125, 137, 141, 148-26., 152— 

64., 201, 245, 271, 273, 277, 
279, 295, 297 ; 

beating of the, foretells events, 
330, 331. 

Flour : 255. 

Flowers: 17 5, 231, 315, 395. 

Fog: 193. 

Folk oe house: 185, 385. 
Folk-lore and other Texts, A 
Brief Account of Bushman : 
96, 331. 

Food: 81, 111 to 113, 123, 125, 
127, 155, 157, 163, 213, 245, 
301, 309, 317 ; 

eaten by Bushmen: 3, 53, 76, 
77, 85, 98, 133, 135, 185, 
225, 291, 295, 311, 313, 319, 
321, 347, 355, 375 ; 
eaten by new maidens, 77, 79, 
199; 

not to be eaten, 61, 77, 271, 
273, 277, 373; 

the seeking of, 85, 193, 199, 
201, 207, 209, 211, 229, 247, 
36o, 385 ; 

abundance of, 81, 83, 233. 

Fool : 41. 

Foolish things or doings: 205, 
223. 

Foot, Feet: 105, 139, 145, 1 52— 

72., 295, 303, 313, 333, 335, 
351, 353, 357, 381, 383. 

Footpath: 385. 

Footprint, Footstep {see also 
Spoor) : 75, 183, 385, 397, 
399. 

For: 151-55., 152-69. 

Forehead: 195,255. 

Fore legs, 281, 283. 

Forepart: 217. 

Form of hare: 313. 

Fox, The Song of the Caama : 

223, 225. 

Friend : 369. 

Frog: 9, 195. 

Frogs' Story, The Girl's Story ; 

the: 199 to 205. 

Fungus: 199. 


456 


INDEX. 


G. 

Gall: 149-40., 399. 

Gambroo (see Kambro) : 3, 313. 
Game : 

hunted in summer, 53, 55 ; 
when shot, Moon not to he looked 
at, 67, 69 ; 

of young men not eaten by 
maidens, 77, 79; 
cutting up of, 3, 227 ; 
respect shown to, 271 to 283 ; 
pitfalls for, 307 ; 
eating of, 309, 317 ; 
mode of carrying, 335, 337. 
Games : 

of ball, 23 to 29, 101 to 105; 
the j M, 91, 93; 

the Igoo or ^gebbi-gqu : 129, 355. 
Gemsbok: 53, 163, 271, 273, 275 
(see illustrations). 

Genitive particle: 144-1&., 145- 
1 c.j 3. and 5., 146-6. and 10., 
147-1 2. and 14., 1 48-27., 149- 

40., 150-41., 151-60. 62. and 

63., 152-72., 153-79. and 80., 
154-88. 

Get, to: 150-47. 

Girl: 5, 95, 159, 189, 277, 371 ; 
of the Early Race, who made 
Stars, The, 73 to 79 ; 

's Story ; the Erog's Story, The, 
199 to 205 ; 

has her left hand cut, 329, 331 ; 
changed by Rain into stars and 
flowers, 393, 395. 

Go, to: 148-22., 149-36. and 39., 
150-51. 

Goats: 95, 227. 

Goura, the: 321 to 325. 
Grandfather: 31, 33, 51, 81, 133, 
135, 239, 261, 283, 305, 307, 
333, 359, 373, 375, 383. 
Grandmother: 51, 119, 207, 231, 
339, 341, 373. 

Grandson : 31, 33. 

Grass: 31, 215, 259, 261,335, 343, 
381 ; 

Bushmen, 9, 129, 227. 

Great: 154-87. 


Green: 198, 323, 335, 383, 399. 
Ground (see also Earth , and Bust ) : 
7, 11, 39, 45, 47, 75, 97, 143, 
144-1$., 151-54. and 63., 153- 

86., 209, 213, 215, 233, 313, 
315, 335, 381, 383, 397. 

Grow, to: 155-93. 

Gum : 345, 347. 

Gun: 117,259,317. 

H. 

Haarfontein: 109. 

Habits : 

Animals and their, 243 to 255 ; 
of the Bat and the Porcupine, 
247 to 253. 

Haematite, red : 359. 

Hair: 13, 95, 97, 147-14., 149- 

30., 150-43., 205, 261, 265, 
269, 335, 349, 377, 399, 401. 

Hammerkop : 391, 393. 

Hand, Hands: 3, 7, 37 to 41, 77, 
79, 123, 157, 195, 273, 279, 
285, 345, 353; 
clapping of, 91, 129, 355; 
cutting of, 329, 331. 
Handbarrow: 293. 

Harden, to : 153-78. 

Hare, the : 

and the Moon, Origin of Heath, 
57 to 65 ; 

part of the flesh not to be eaten, 
61, 63; 

hunting of, 171, 309 to 313 ; 
treatment of bones of, 275 ; 
death of the leveret, 317 to 
321. 

Harm : 249, 253, 

II ar Rivier: 315. 

Hartebeest (see illustration ) : 

The Mantis assumes the form of 
a, 3 to 17 ; 

's Children, 29 ; 
declension of, 149-40 ; 
skins used to hide a youth in, 
183, 185, 191. 

Hartus Kloof: 109. 

Have, to: 148-20. 


INDEX. 


457 


Hawaiian veebs compaeed with 
Bushman: 146-9. 

He: 146-6. 

Head : 5 to 15, 23, 39, 47, 65, 91, 
117, 123 to 127, 151-62. and 
63., 163, 167, 169, 177, 179, 
181, 205, 227, 233, 257, 287, 
335, 357, 367, 375 to 379, 399, 
401. 

Heap of bones: 275 to 279, 285. 

Heaet : 17, 81, 83, 185, 191, 387, 
389; 

Dawn's-, 85 to 98 ; 

Jackal's, not to be eaten, 373, 
375. 

Heat: 125, 127, 175, 311, 313. 

Heaven: 149-33. 

Heels: 13, 17 to 21, 303. 

Hee: 146-6., 147-12. 

High: 153-87. 

Hill: 13, 15, 113, 175, 179, 183, 
185, 187, 217, 339, 381. 

Hindee paet: 217. 

His: 146-6., 147-12. 

Histoey, Peesonal: 289 to 325. 

Hithee : 146-9. 

Hole: 107, 109, 207, 247, 249, 
253, 343, 361, 379. 

Hollow : 

at the back of the head, 177, 
357: 

under knees, 337. 

Home, Wkahbo's Intended Retuen : 
299 to 317. 

Honey: 67, 355. 

Hoen, Hoens: 3, 13, 199, 333, 
335, 347. 

Hottentot : 

similarities in language, 144-1 A, 
151-61., 154-90. and 91., 
155-93; 

food eaten by, 225. 

House: 11, 13, 35, 54, 55, 115, 
123, 125, 131, 137 to 143, 
146-10., 147-15., 159, 165 to 
169, 185, 201, 209, 211, 269, 
291, 295, 297, 301, 333, 335, 
379 to 387. 

Household woek: 301. 


Human beings: 397. 

Hungee foe Tobacco : 235. 

Hunting: 67, 69, 87, 89, 107, 155, 
157, 171, 175, 309 to 313, 
339. 

in summer, 53, 55, 387 ; 

ground, 81, 85, 157, 203, 319; 

leopard, 125; 

Animals and their Habits, 
Adventures with them and, 
243 to 287 ; 

Observances called I nanna-sse, 
271 to 285; 

Tactics in Springbok, 285 to 287 ; 

Preparation of Feather Brushes 
used in Springbok, 359 to 361. 

Husband : 49, 73, 87, 89, 95, 115, 
117, 146-12., 171, 195, 291, 
295, 331, 369, 385, 387; 

The Vultures, their Elder Sister, 
and her, 155 to 163 ; 

The ^nerru and her, 207 to 213. 

Hut: 37, 76, 77, 117, 185, 187, 
189, 193, 201, 205, 213, 229, 
241, 301, 305, 323, 336, 337, 
343, 381 ; 

shelter of, 103, 105, 109, 187; 

opening of the, 195, 229, 275 to 
279; 

heap of bones of, 275 to 279 ; 

bones hidden in the, 281, 283. 

Hyena, the: 85,87,91,93,97,98; 

carries off the old woman, 127, 
229; 

's Revenge, 123 to 127. 

I. 

I: 152-64. 

Ichneumon, the young: 31, 35. 

Illness: 193, 199, 277, 308, 309, 
313, 379. 

Impeeative mood : 146-7. 

In, into: 149-39., 150-40. 42. 
and 45., 152-74. 

Indicative mood: 146-7. 

Insects: 65, 76, 101, 171, 337. 

Inside: 141, 147-17., 334, 336. 

Insteps: 351. 

Intelligence: 199. 


458 


INDEX 


Invalid : 165. 

It: 146-6., 152-72. 

J 

Jackal, the : 85, 87, 97, 98, 143, 
145, 309 ; 

The Leopard and, 245 ; 

Heart of, not to be eaten, 373, 
375. 

Jail : 291, 293, 297. 

Japanese, " The Mythology and 
Religious Worship of the 
Ancient," 280. 

Joint of little finger cut off : 
329, 331. 

Journey : 

to Cape Town, || Jcabbo's Capture 
and, 291 to 297. 

in the Railway Train, || Jcahbo's, 
299. 

Joy : 3, 57, 63. 

Juice : 363. 

K. 

Kafir, Kafirs : 291, 295, 297, 
308. 

Kambro, Gambroo, or Gambro : 3, 
313, 349, 353. 

Kaross: 15, 27, 31, 35, 87, 171, 
193, 195, 209 to 213, 341, 
375. 

Katkop dialect, native literature 
in the : 36 to 40, 56 to 68, 
78, 80, 126 to 136, 174 to 
190, 198 to 204, 230, 236, 
246 to 252, 254 to 274, 320 
to 324, 364 to 370, 388 to 
400. 

Kenhardt : 197. 

Kid : 245, 247. 

Kill, to: 145-2., 148-20. 

Korannas : 225, 291 to 297, 359. 

Knee: 107, 141, 337. 

Knife : 3, 11, 15, 38, 51, 227, 
349. 

Knorhaan or Bastard : 153-86., 
233, 311. 

Kotze, Jacob : 109, 113. 


Kraal : 111. 

Krieboom : 225, 257, 259. 

Kudu: 53. 

L. 

Lamb : 295. 

Land: 144-1#. 

Language : 

of baboons, 17, 18, 20, 28; 

of Mantis, 6, 8 ; 

of Bushmen, 9, 113, 144-1#., 
301. 

Large : 154-87. 

Larvae : 85, 98. 

Layard : "The Birds of South 
Africa": 391. 

Leader of springbok herd : 339. 

Leather, the moon is a piece of : 
38. 

Left-handed, 11. 

Leg: 137 to 141, 149-40., 281, 
283, 291, 297, 313, 335, 337, 
367. 

Legends : 173 to 217. 

Leglet : 87. 

Leopard : 

Heart of, may be eaten, 37 3 ; 

the Hunting, 125 ; 

Tortoise, The Story of the, 37 
to 41 ; 

and the Jackal, The, 245. 

Letters: 331. 

Leveret was killed, How \ hah - 
^ kass ' d's Pet : 317 to 321. 

Libellula , Palpares and : 171. 

Lie, to: 150-45., 151-55., 152- 
74., 153-77. 

Lift, to: 147-13., 148-29., 154-89. 

Light : 323. 

Lightning : 323, 325, 393 to 397 ; 

+ kdgara and \haunu, who fought 
each other with, 113 to 119. 

Lion, the : 150-41.; 

The Hyena's Revenge upon the, 
123 to 127; 

jealous of the Voice of the 
Ostrich, 127 to 137 ; 

The Young Man who was carried 
off by a, 1 7 5 to 1 9 1 ; 


INDEX. 


459 


Lion, the ( continued ) : 

's Story, 259 to 261 ; 
in a Cave, The Man who found 
a, 261 to 269 ; 

sorcerer in form of a, 187, 236. 

Lioness: 98, 125; 

and the Children ; Ddi-xerreten, 
the, 163 to 169. 

Little: 148-27., 151-60., 153— 
87; 

finger, 329, 331. 

Liver : 399. 

Lizard, The Death of the : 215 
to 217, 316 to 321 {see illustra- 
tions). 

Locusts: 76, 101. 

Loss of II kdbbo's Tobacco Pouch, 
The : 235, 237. 

Louse, the : 337. 

Love, to: 169. 

Lungs : 129 to 135. 

Lynx, the : 

the Wife of the Dawn's-Heart 
Star, 85 to 98 ; 
derides the cat, 221 to 223. 

M. 

Mad things: 213. 

Magician {see Sorcerer). 

Magistrate: 291 to 297 {compare 
also Master). 

Maidens, new : 76 to 79, 199. 

Making of Clay Pots, the : 343 
to 347. 

Male: 151-60., 247, 283, 329, 343. 

Maluti Bushmen, A Glimpse into 
the Mythology of the: 19. 

Mamma : 247, 249, 323, 325, 365, 
395. 

Man, Men: 145-1<?. ; 

of Early Pace, 37, 54 to 57, 73, 
89, 155, 157, 163, 175, 193, 
205, 207, 215, 224, 227, 239; 
Sun, Moon, Star, Wind and Pain 
as, 38, 54, 57, 91, 107, 113, 
195, 298 ; 

animals who were, 59 to 63, 127 
to 135, 171, 215, 224, 233 ; 


old, 13, 19, 21, 29, 49, 317, 387 
{see also Grandfather ) ; 
young, 51, 77, 79, 309; 

The Young, carried off by a Lion, 
175 to 191; 
fiesh of, 5, 330 ; 
mortality of, 59 to 65 ; 
cursed, 9, 161, 169 ; 
white, 255, 259, 295 to 299 ; 
black, 299 ; 

must not touch a springbok when 
shooting, 271 to 275; 
arrows of, influenced by what 
women eat, 77, 277 ; 
dances of, 91, 129, 351 to 357 ; 
work of, 231, 281, 301, 303, 
305, 347, 349, 355, 361, 377, 
387 ; 

have their ears pierced, 329 ; 
signal with dust, when faint, 385 
to 389. 

Mantis, the {see illustrations ) : 
stories about, 1 to 37 ; 

Assumes the Eorm of a Harte- 
beest, 3 to 17 ; 
pronunciation of, 6, 8, 9 ; 

The Son of, and the Baboons, 17 
to 37 ; 

is tricked by the Great Tortoise, 
36 ; 

a story of, found among Maluti 
Bushmen, 19 ; 

the Moon is a shoe of the, 38, 
53. 

Marking of Arrows, The : 361, 
363 {see illustrations). 

Marks : 335, 381, 383. 

Marriage : 

of animals, 125, 233 ; 

of II kabbo and his children, 307. 

Marrow : 279, 281. 

Marry, to : 147-12. 

Mason Wasp and his Wife, The : 
171, 172. 

Master: 109, 111, 225, 303, 315. 

Mat: 103, 109, 183, 185, 203, 
205. 

Mate : 9, 39, 151-60., 159. 

Meat {see also Flesh) : 3, 53, 60 to 


460 


INDEX. 


63, 137, 148-26., 157, 161, 
163, 225, 239, 271 to 277, 
297, 321, 331, 347. 

Middle, Midst: 159, 161, 171, 
177, 197, 317. 

Milk: 363. 

Milky Way, The: 73, 75, 251, 
253. 

Mines : 379. 

Mist : 193. 

Mode of getting kid of the in- 
fluence OF BAD DREAMS : 365. 

Moods of yerb : 145-2., 146-7., 
148-25., 149-40. 

Moon : 

Sun and, 43 to 69 ; 
is a shoe of the Mantis, 38, 53 ; 
is cut by the Sun, 38, 39, 51, 53 ; 
prayer to, 57, 59 ; 
and Hare, story of the Origin of 
Heath, 57 to 65 ; 
not to be looked at when Game 
has been shot, 67, 69 ; 
turning back of, 299, 303, 305, 
315; 

names of, 298, 57 (see 365) ; 
Relations of, to Human Beings 
after Heath, 397 to 399. 

Morning: 87, 189, 263, 267, 293, 
357, 387. 

Mother: 45, 47, 55, 59 to 63, 67, 
69, 73, 77, 91, 101 to 105, 
111, 113, 187, 191, 199, 201, 
203, 211, 213, 245, 247, 251, 
261, 309, 365, 369, 391 to 
399. 

Motion, verbs of : 146-9. 

Mountain: 107, 109, 119, 197, 
215, 217, 305, 332, 337, 379. 

Mounted, be : 151-53. 

Mouth : 25, 59, 83, 123, 127 to 
131, 157, 207, 239, 275, 299, 
321, 351. 

Mowbray : 299. 

Mucus: 113. 

Murder of \\lcdllo' l s brother : 308. 

Musical instruments: 321 to 325, 
351 to 357 ( see illustrations'). 

Must: 152-64., 155-94. 


My: 147-12. 

Mythology : 

Mantis, 3 to 41 ; 

Sun and Moon, 43 to 69 ; 

Stars: 73 to 98 ; 

Wind, etc., 101 to 119: 

of the Maluti Bushmen, A Glimpse 
into the, 19 ; 

and Religious Worship of the 
Ancient Japanese, 280. 

N. 

Nail: 129, 135. 

Name: 79, 101 to 105, 113, 205, 
225, 247, 305, 315, 317. 

Nape of neck: 11 and 12, 357. 

Neck: 5, 9, 15, 37, 39, 41, 197, 
281, 333. 

Neighbourhood: 313. 

Nests: 215. 

Net: 117, 137, 147-18. 

News (see also Story ) : 389, 393. 

Night: 51, 53, 75, 93, 237, 251, 
271, 273, 283, 295, 297, 321, 
387, 393. 

Noise: 33, 211, 237, 245, 253, 
267, 287. 

Nominative case, examples of : 
144-H., 145-5., 146-6., 147- 
14., 149-40., 150-41. and 50., 
151-54. and 62., 152-72., 

153-79. 80. and 85., 154-88. 

Noon: 23,175,185,251,295,311, 
337, 357, 393. 

Nose: 113,265. 

Nostril: 115,253. 

Not: 154-87. 

Nouns: 145-1 c. and 5., 147-12. 
and 15. 

Numerals : 

one, 150-40., 155, 308, 209, 225 ; 

two, 165, 167 ; 

three, 165, 167, 291. 

O. 

Observances, called I nanna-sse, 
Certain Hunting : 271 to 

285. 


INDEX. 


461 


Old : 

man, 13, 19, 21, 29, 49, 77, 317, 
387 ( see also Grandfather ) ; 

people, 227, 273, 367 ; 

woman, 45, 47, 49, 127; 

woman's Song, The, 229. 

One: 150-40., 155, 209, 225, 308. 

Opening of hut: 195, 229, 275 to 
279. 

Orange River: 391. 

Origin of Death, The: 57 to 65. 

Ornaments: 87, 93. 

Orpen, Mr. J. M. : 19. 

Ostrich, the : 145-3., 151-60., 

153-75., 314 ( see illustrations ); 

hunting and trapping of, 53, 307, 
315; 

parts of, eaten, 123, 125, 133, 
135; 

eggs and eggshells of, 141 to 
145,261,313; 

feathers of, 147-14., 149-30., 
213, 285, 359, 361 ; 

sinew of, 147-18. ; 

breastbone of, used as dish, 275 
to 279 ; 

coming of, felt by Bushmen, 333 
to 337 ; 

The lion jealous of the voice of, 
127 to 137; 

The Resurrection of, 137 to 
145. 

Otocyon Lalandii , the: 375. 

Out : 149-36., 347. 

Ox: 193. 

P. 

Pain: 117. 

Pallas' discovert among the 
Kirghiz : 280. 

Palmares and Libellula : 171. 

Pan, the salt : 367. 

Papa : 11. 

Parents: 13, 41, 101, 107, 113, 
257, 259, 261. 

Parsing of part of £ The 
Resurrection of the Ostrich' : 
144 to 155. 

Part: 217, 345, 369, 371. 


Particle : 

genitive, 144-1 b., 147-12., 148- 

27., 152-67.; 

omission of genitive, 147-12. 
and 14. ; 

verbal for indicative and impera- 
tive, 146-7. ; 

verbal for past perfect or plu- 
perfect, 147-16., 152-67.; 
verbal for auxiliaries, 150-43., 
155-94. 

Pass, the: 215, 319. 

Past, particle indicating: 147-16. 
Path: 53, 303, 315. 

Paxwax: 349. 

Peace: 249, 379. 

People: 17 to 21, 53, 55, 95, 97, 
159, 161, 165, 183 to 191, 
237, 263, 267 to 273, 301, 
339, 367, 369, 375 to 391. 
Perfect Tense, the : 145-2., 147— 

16., 148-25. and 28., 149-37. 

and 40., 152-67., 154-89., 

155-92. 

Perspiration of armpits, 27, 85. 
Petticoat : 87. 

Pick up, to: 147-13., 154-89. 
Piece: 157, 257, 277, 339, 341. 
Piercing ears and nose : 329. 

Pit of water: 195, 305, 323. 
Pitfall: 307. 

Place, the : 151-55., 154-91., 

155-92. 

Place, to : 148-24. 

Plant, the : 153-85. 

Plenty, connected with stars : 

81, 83, 233. 

Plumage: 213. 

Pluperfect, the : 147-16. 

Plural : 

of nouns, 144-1$., 145-1 c., 146-5. 
and 10., 147-12. and 14., 148- 
21. 26. and 27., 149-40., 150- 
41. 48. and 50., 151-58. 60. 
and 62., 152-72., 153-79. 80. 
85. and 86., 154-87 ; 
of pronouns, 146-6., 147-15., 
149-30., 151-57.; 
of diminutive, 148-27., 151-60.; 


462 


INDEX. 


Plural ( continued ) : 

of verb f to be', 151-57 ; 
of adjectives, 151-59., 153-87. 

Poetry: 219 to 241. 

Poison: 67, 85, 98, 101, 271, 283, 
363. 

Pool: 217, 381, 385, 393. 

Porcupine, the : 

time for returning home of, 81; 
food of, 76, 101 ; 

Habits of the Pat and, 247 to 
253; 

bones of, 275. 

Possess, to: 148-20. 

Pot, Pots: 123 to 127, 149-40., 
155, 311, 351, 375 ; 

The Making of Clay, 343 to 
347. 

Pouch eor tobacco : 235, 237. 

Prayer : 

to the Young Moon, 57, 59 ; 
to a Star, 81, 83 ; 
and Doings, when Canopus and 
Sirius come out, 339, 341. 

Preparation of Peather Brushes 
used in Springbok Hunting, 
359, 361. 

Presentiments, Bushman : 331 to 
339. 

Prison : 295. 

Pronouns : 146-6., 147-12. and 

15., 150-40., 151-55. and 57., 
152-64. 65. and 72., 154-91., 
155-94., 163. 

Proteles : 349. 

Pumpkin: 363. 

Put, to: 148-24., 150-49. 

Q. 

Quagga, the: 87, 123, 125. 

Quartz : 227. 

Quill: 141. 

Quiver: 25, 27, 31, 171, 187. 

E. 

Pace of Men, the Early : 37, 54, 
55, 73, 89, 155, 163, 175, 
193, 205, 207, 215, 224. 


Bailway Train, II kabbo's Journey 
in the : 299. 

Bain: {see also Water ) 149-40; 
sorcerers, 113, 236, 237, 323; 
falls, 143, 261, 263, 293, 315, 
321, 323 ; 

brings lightning, 323, 325, 393 
to 397 ; 

Bull, A Woman of the Early 
Bace and the, 193 to 199 ; 
changes girls into flowers or 
stars, 393, 395. 

Battles, The Bushman Dancing : 

351, 353 {see illustrations). 
Bavine : 165, 167. 

Bed: 343, 359, 281, 287, 76, 13. 
Beduplication, examples of : 
in nouns, 146-10., 148-26. and 

27., 149-40., 150-50., 151- 

62., 152-72., 153-79. and 80; 
in verbs, 149-37., 150-47. and 

49., 151-61., 152-68. and 71., 
153-76. 77. 78. and 81., 155- 
93; 

in pronouns, 146-6 ; 
in adjectives, 153-87. 

Beeds: 87, 89, 91, 95, 98, 205, 
330. 

Belative pronouns : 147-15., 150- 

40., 151-55. and 57., 154-91., 
155-92., 314. 

Beligious Worship of the Ancient 
Japanese : 280. 

Besin : 363. 

Bespect shown to animals: 183, 
271, 277. 

Besurrection : 

of the Mantis' son, 31 to 37 ; 
of the Ostrich, 137 to 145 ; 
of man, 59 to 65 ; 
of game, 67. 

Beturn Home, Whabbo^s Intended : 
299 to 317. 

Bevenge, The Hyena's: 123 to 
127. 

Bib Bone, The Shaped : 345, 349 
{see illustrations). 

Bibs: 11, 141, 333. 

Bice, Bushman: 45, 47, 51, 85, 


INDEX. 


463 


98, 199, 201, 207 to 211, 261, 
339, 341, 365. 

Riches ( see Abundance). 

Rider : 365, 57. 

Riyer bed: 11, 13, 107, 217, 293, 
315, 335. 

Riyer, Orange : 391. 

Riyier, The Har : 315. 

Road: 291 to 295, 303, 305, 315. 

Rock: 229, 307. 

Roots: 75 to 77, 97, 185, 215, 
349. 

Round: 150-42., 154-87. 

Rush of the storm : 325. 

Rustling of feet: 335, 373. 

S. 

Sack: 147-18., 209. 

Saliva : 79. 

Salt pan : 367. 

Sand: 11, 217, 343. 

Saxicola Castor and the Wild Cat, 
The : 255. 

Scar: 59, 135. 

Scent: 27, 35, 85, 193, 199, 249, 
265, 269, 273, 275, 373, 

397. 

Scratch, to : 155-92., 333, 337. 

Screen of bushes: 103, 185, 283. 

Seasons, names of the : 51, 53, 55, 
83, 311, 315, 337, 339. 

Sensation : 333 to 337. 

Sex: 147-12., 151-60., 329. 

Shade: 225, 311, 336, 337, 399. 

She : 146-6. 

Sheep: 111, 280, 291, 293, 297. 

Shell : 261, 313, 363. 

Shelter : 

for hut, 103, 105, 109, 111, 185; 
for shooting, 283. 

Shepherd: 111. 

Shining : 67. 

Shoes: 11, 13, 38, 53, 87, 139. 

Shooting: 17 to 21, 53, 67, 73, 
83, 171, 172, 187 to 191, 277, 
283, 287, 311, 315, 317, 329, 
361, 387. 

Short: 153-87. 


Shoulder : 3, 5, 225, 227, 333, 
343 ; 

blade, 9, 11, 277 to 285, 341. 

Side of Hill : 165, 167, 217, 379. 

Signs made by Rushmen : 

to show in which direction they 
have gone, 381 to 385 ; 
to call for help, 385 to 389. 

Sinew: 147-18., 351, 353. 

Sirius and Canopus: 231, 233, 
339, 341. 

Sister : 

elder, 3, 5, 7, 39, 89, 91, 95, 
155 to 163, 201, 211, 367, 
369; 

younger, 5, 85 to 91, 95 to 98, 
113 to 117, 159, 367 ; 

-in-law, 87, 91 to 95, 157. 

Sit: 147-17., 151-53. 

Skin : 3, 87, 98, 107, 147-15., 153- 
75., 155, 157, 163, 183, 185, 
191, 205, 209, 213, 227, 277, 
281, 283, 287, 325, 343, 349 to 
353, 359, 361, 369, 373, 375. 

Sky: 27, 45, 47, 53 to 57, 67, 73 
to 77, 137, 149-33., 159, 161, 
341, 393, 399. 

Slate: 307. 

Sleep: 175, 197, 249, 337, 357, 
359. 

Small: 153-87. 

Smell (see Scent). 

Smoke, Smoking: 235, 237, 293 
to 297, 301, 303, 361, 381 ; 

Smoke's Man: 109, 285. 

Sneezing: 115. 

Sole of foot: 13. 

Son : 341, 375 ; 

of the Mantis, and the Eaboons, 
The, 17 to 37; 

of the Wind, The, 101 to 107 ; 
of II kdbbo, 109, 285, 291, 295, 
307. 

Songs : 

of baboons, 17 to 23 ; 
of the ^nerru, 211; 
of the Lizard, 215, 319 ; 

The Cat's, 221, 223; 

of the Caama Fox, 223, 225 ; 


464 


INDEX. 


Songs ( continued ) : 

of the Blue Crane, 225, 227 ; 

The Old Woman's, 229 ; 

Sung by the Star \gmnu and by 
Bushmen Women, 231 ; 

Sirius and Canopus, 231, 233; 

of the Bustard, 233 ; 

of the Springbok Mothers, 235 ; 

II Jcabbo's, on the Loss of his 
Tobacco Pouch, 235 ; 

The Broken String, 237 ; 
of \nti\numma~\kwiten, 239. 
Sorcerers: 113, 187, 189, 236, 
237, 323, 369, 379. 

Sound: 237, 241, 247. 

Soup: 123 to 127, 311, 349. 

Spine: 9, 163. 

Splinter: 15, 227. 

Spoon: 347, 349. 

Spoor: 183, 223, 225, 265, 269, 
337, 361. 

Spring ( the season ) : 337. 

Spring {of water ) : 197, 201 to 205. 
Springbok : 

shooting, 53, 55, 109, 283, 317, 
335, 339, 361, 363, 387; 
Hunting, Tactics in, 285 to 287 ; 
superstitions connected with, 77 
to 83, 271 to 285, 333, 335; 
Doings of the, 245, 247, 117, 
107, 273, 311 ; 

eating of, 155, 157, 161, 163, 
245, 291, 295; 

Mothers, Song of the, 235 ; 
skin of, 209, 213, 227, 277, 281, 
343, 351, 353, 359, 361 ; 
other parts of, used by Bushmen, 

279, 313, 347 to 353. 
Staffordshire, Belief found in : 

280. 

Star, Stars: 71 to 98. 

The Girl of the Early liace who 
made, 73 to 79 ; 

I gaunu, who singing named the, 
79, 81 ; 

and porcupine, 81, 251, 253; 
What they say, and a Prayer to 
a, 81, 83 ; 

\Jc6-g\nuintdra, wife of the 


Dawn's-Heart (Jupiter), 85 
to 98 ; 

identification of certain, 79 ; 
Song sung by j gaunu and by 
Bushman women, 231 ; 

Sirius and Canopus, 231, 233 ; 
abundance attributed to, 81, 83, 
233; 

Doings and Prayers when Canopus 
and Sirius come out, 339, 341 ; 
fall at death of a person, 389 to 
393. 

Starvation : 317. 

Stem: 161, 177, 197, 345, 361. 

Sticks: 17 to 23, 123, 127, 150-41., 
177, 179, 229, 255, 257, 279, 
281 to 285, 339, 341, 359, 
361, 363; 

for digging, 77, 97, 207, 343, 
361. 

Still, yet: 151-56. 

Stocks: 291, 297. 

Stomach: 53, 63, 83, 279, 347; 
contents of the, 95, 279 ; 
used to fetch water in, 163, 313. 

Stone, Stones: 109, 153-86., 163, 
291, 323, 345, 347, 353, 359, 
361, 365, 379; 
knives, 3, 11, 15, 227, 347 ; 
of digging- sticks, 361. 

Storm, description of a : 321 to 
325. 

Story: 47, 57, 65, 127, 225, 301, 
303, 309, 391 ; 

The Girl's Story ; the Erog's, 
199 to 205; 

A Lion's, 259 to 261. 

Stout: 154-87. 

Stow, Native Baces of South 
Africa: 321. 

Stranger: 305. 

Strap: 213. 

Strengthen, to : 152-71., 153-76. 

String : 171, 283 ; 

The Broken, 237. 

Stripe on the face of the Spring- 
bok : 335. 

Strong, to be : 152-71. 

Stuff: 107. 


INDEX. 


465 


Stump : 383. 

Subjunctive mood: 145-2., 148- 
25. and 28., 149-40., 152-67. 

Sommer: 51 to 55, 83, 311, 313, 
399. 

Sun: 13, 33, 35, 139, 150-52., 183, 
293, 301, 311 to 315, 335 to 
341, 385, 387, 399; 
and Moon, myths of, 43 to 69 ; 
cuts Moon, 38, 39, 51, 53; 
into the Sky, The Children are 
sent to throw the Sleeping, 
45 to 57 ; 
and Stars, 73, 75 ; 
rises, 51, 93, 269, 273, 355 ; 
sets, 51, 107, 111, 191, 273, 
357 ; 

other name of, 298, 301. 

Sunset : 89. 

Surface: 351. 

Superstitions, Customs and : 327 
to 401. 

Swallow, to : 153-84. 

T. 

Tactics in Springbok Hunting : 
285 to 287 ( see illustrations). 

Tail: 131, 193, 281. 

Take, to: 146-8., 147-13., 148- 
20., 149-31. and 32. 

Tall: 153-87. 

Tapping of the Flesh : 333. 

Tears: 25, 177, 187, 189. 

Teeth: 169, 225. 

Tenses of Yerb : 145-2.. 147-16., 
148-25. and 28., 149-37. and 
. 40. 

That, in order that, 152-64., 
154-91., 155-94. 

They: 146-6. 

Thigh : 5, 9, 351 . 

Think, to: 150-44., 152-73., 154- 
90. 

Thinking -strings : 87, 89. 

Thirst: 69, 175, 313. 

This: 146-11., 154-91. 

Thither: 146-9. 

Thong: 7, 9, 13, 333, 359, 373. 


Thorn: 175. 

Thorn Bush: 275. 

Thread: 147-18., 353. 

Three: 165, 167, 291. 

Throat: 123, 129. 

Thunder: 117. 

Thunderbolt: 397. 

Thunderstorm, The: 321 to 325. 

Thy: 147-12. 

Time: 159, 181, 191, 249 to 253, 
265, 357, 367, 369, 371, 389, 
391. 

Tinderbox- Owner : 13. 

Tip of ear : 353. 

Tobacco : 235, 237, 293. 

Tooth {see Teeth). 

Top : 165, 167, 179, 183, 187, 
349, 383. 

Tortoise : 279, 363 ; 

The Story of the Leopard, 37 
to 41. 

Towards: 146-9. 

Train: 295, 299. 

Transformation : 

of Mantis into a harteheest, 
3 to 17; 

of the Dawn's-Heart's wife into 
a lynx, 87 to 98 ; 

of a lizard into two mountains, 
217 ; 

of a man into a bustard, 233 ; 

of girls into vultures, 155 to 
163; 

of people into frogs, 195, 199, 
203, 205 ; 

of girls into stars and flowers, 
393, 395. 

Transitive verbs : 151-61. 

Treatment of bones, etc. : 275 to 
285. 

Tree: 65, 153-85., 161, 175, 177, 
195, 197, 225, 257, 259, 305, 
315, 335, 345, 349, 379. 

Tricks: 277. 

Truth: 331. 

Tsdtsi : 81, 91, 238, 283, 319, 359, 

3 373, 375. 

Tto: 281, 359, 375 to 379. 

Two: 165, 167. 


2 H 


466 


INDEX. 


U. 

Uncle: 255. 

Undercut: 163. 

Understanding : 307. 

Unstiffen, to : 152-68. 

Upon: 151-53. 

Y. 

Vegetable: 153-85. 

Veldschoen: 139, 153-75. 

Verbs : 

moods and tenses of, 145-2., 
146-7., 147-16., 148-25., 

149-37. and 40., 154-89; 
of motion, endings of, 146-9; 
joining of, 146-8., 148-22. and 

29., 149-32. and 36 ; 
respective form of , 148-28., 155— 
92; 

auxiliary, 150-43., 152-64., 

155-94; 

adverbs with form of, 152-65 ; 
causative or transitive, 151-61., 
152-71., 153-76. and 78., 
155-93 ; 

reduplication in, 149-37., ISO- 
47. and 49., 151-61., 152-68. 
and 71., 153-76. 77. 78. and 81. 

Vermin : 65. 

Victoria West: 291. 

Viscera: 275. 

Visiting: 53, 301, 303. 

V lei : 105,217. 

Vocative case: 145-U., 165, 167. 

Voice of the Ostrich, The Lion 
jealous of the: 127 to 137. 

Vowels affect consonants: 144- 
1 b ., 146-6. 

Vultures, their Elder Sister, 
and her Husband, The: 155 
to 163. 

W. 

Wagon: 111, 291,293, 295, 299. 

Walk, to: 150-51., 153-81. 

War: 21. 

Warmth: 55, 339, 341. 

Wasp and his Wife, The Mason: 
171, 172. 


Water (see also Rain) : 149-40 ; 
resurrection of life in, 31 to 37, 
137, 139; 
of Moon, 67 ; 
bank of, 151-63 ; 
bringing, 359 ; 

dipping up of, 163, 165, 313, 
321,357,359; 

drinking of, 175, 177, 179, 311, 
313,315,387; 

pool, pan, pit, 195, 217, 305, 
307, 311, 381 to 385 ; 
children of the, 199 to 203 ; 
in river bed, 293 ; 
in clay pot, 347 ; 
stars and flowers stand in, 391 
to 395. 

Way, to lose the: 371, 383. 
Wet, to be: 150-41. 

Wheel : 293. 

Which, relative pronoun : 147— 

15., 151-55. and 57., 152-72., 
154-91., 155-92. 

Whirlwind: 137, 139, 148-27., 
201, 203. 

White: 47, 75, 227, 239, 363. 
White men: 255, 259, 295, 297, 
299. 

Wife: 115, 127, 137 to 143, 146- 

12., 151-60., 157, 185, 209, 
211, 213, 277, 281, 283, 291, 
295, 307, 308, 309, 365, 367, 
377, 385, 395 ; 

of the Dawn's -Heart Star, The, 
85 to 98 ; 

The Mason Wasp and his, 171, 
172; 

The Man who ordered his, to cut 
off his Ears, 205. 

Wild Cat, The : 255. 

Wildebeest : 87. 

Wind, the : 13, 139, 154-88., 253, 
301, 303, 317; 
noise of, 211, 325 ; 

The Son of the, 101 to 107 ; 
is a bird, 107, 109 ; 

Relation of, to Human Beings 
after Death, 397, 399. 

Wing: 137, 141, 143, 150-50. 


INDEX. 


467 


Wittberg : 308. 

Woman, Women: 147-12; 

The Old, and the Hyena, 127, 229; 
The Song of the Old, 229 ; 

Song sung by | gaunu and by 
Bushman, 231 ; 

of the Early Race and the Bain 
Bull, 193 to 199; 
old, talk to children, 45 to 49, 
67,377; 

old, admire handsome young 
man, 377 and 379 ; 
is sister to the vultures, 155 ; 
the 4 nerru was a, 207 ; 
dress of, 87, 93, 341 ; 
dance or game of, 91, 129, 131, 
355; 

burn horns to pacify the Bain, 
199; 

seek food, 199, 201, 225; 
must avoid certain things, 277, 
395,397; 

Work done by, 277, 281, 301, 
303, 343 to 347, 351 to 355, 
377; 

nurse and carry children, 87 to 
91, 295, 333 ; 

have ears and nose pierced, 329. 

Wood [see also Tree , and Bush): 
15, 73, 75, 77, 153-85., 185, 
• 229, 297, 339, 341. 

Work: 165, 301, 303. 

Wound: 3, 5, 13, 31, 283, 333, 
387. 

Wrist : 93. 

Y. 

Yet: 151-56. 

Young : 

feathers, 151-58; 

Man of Ancient Bace carried off 
by a Lion, 175 to 191 ; 
men, 49, 51, 77, 79, 309, 377, 
379 ; 

woman courted by the Bain 
Bull, 193 to 199. 

Younger brother or sister : 5, 
85 to 91, 95, 97, 98, 205, 
309, 367. 


Z. 

Zebra : 199. 

Zwart-storm tree: 175, 177. 

I 

\a\lcunta, native literature given 
by : 136 to 144, 228. 

\han^kass' 6 [ see illustration ) : 

relations of, 16, 81, 84, 91, 100, 
109, 111, 112, 113, 154, 162, 
170, 192, 204, 206, 207, 214, 
231, 234, 238, 282, 285, 307, 
317, 319, 347, 359, 372 to 
375. 

native literature given by, 16 to 
36, 80 to 96, 100 to 118, 154 
to 170, 192 to 198, 204 to 
216, 230 to 234, 238 to 240, 
244 to 246, 254, 274 to 286, 
316 to 320, 342 to 362, 372 
to 388. 

| Jcuamman-a, son-in-law of the 
Mantis: 33, 35. 

\ Jew me or I Jcwqe : 347, 363. 

lydleen-ah, account given by : 330 


I 

! gaunu : 

The great Star, which singing 
named the Stars, 79, 81 ; 

A Song sung by, and also by 
Bushman women, 231 ; 

-tsayau (the son of the Mantis), 
the Baboons, and the Mantis, 
17 to 37. 

\goih-\g6ih, The use of the : 353, 
355, and illustration. 

\haunu , 4 leagara and, who fought 
each other with Lightning : 
113 to 119. 

! hum ( a root) : 75 to 77, 85. 

! Jcabbi-a : ,57 , 364. 

! Jco - g\nuin-tara (the lynx mother), 
story of : 85 to 98. 

! leiiissi or \Jcuisse (a root): 76, 97, 
185. 


468 


INDEX. 


j hweiten ta When ( see illustration ) : 
relations of, 36, 198, 258, 367 ; 
stories by: 36 to 40, 198 to 204, 
258 to 260. 

\ndnna-sse : 182; 

Certain Hunting Observances 
called, 271 to 275 ; 

Part II. Treatment of Bones, 
275 to 285. 

\nu\nurnma-\hwiten , The Song of : 

* 239, 241. ° 

II 

|| hdra: 281. 375 to 379. 

II hdbbo ( see illustrations ): 

relations of, 72, 109, 291, 295, 
305, 307, 309 ; 
names of, 147-12., 303; 

's Song on the Loss of his 
Tobacco Pouch, 235, 237 ; 

's Capture and Journey to Cape 
Town, 291 to 297 ; 


|| hallo ( continued ) : 

's Journey in the Bail way Train, 
299 ; 

's Intended Beturn Home, 299 
to 317 ; 

native literature contributed by, 
here given, 2 to 16, 44 to 
56, 72 to 78, 122 to 126, 220 
to 226, 244, 290 to 316, 328, 
330 to 340. 

WxablitenWxabliten, The Baboons 
and : 255 to 259. 

4 

£ hag dr a and Yhaunu , who fought 

EACH OTHER WITH LlGHTNING I 

113 to 119. 

^nerru, The, and her Husband : 
207 to 213; as a bird, 213 
to 215. 


The Native Races of South Africa 


A History of the Intrusion of the Hottentots and Basutu into 
the Hunting Grounds of the Bushmen, the Aborigines of 
the Country, with numerous Illustrations. By George 
W. Stow, F.G.S., F.R.G.S. Edited by George McCall 
Theal, Litt.D., LL.D., Author of Eight Volumes History 
of South Africa. Royal 8vo. 21s. net. 

' ' In collecting and arranging the native traditions of the migrations he 
has established beyond question what has been generally accepted for some 
time. It is in his exhaustive and sympathetic study of the Bushmen that 
the chief value of the book lies. The common fallacies that they are 
naturally a race of untamable savages, incapable of friendliness or gratitude, 
prone to acts of incredible cruelty, living a bestial life without social order or 
any form of government, and utterly incapable of improvement, were, as he 
shows, drawn only from the Bushmen who had been driven to despair 
by ill-treatment. In their natural state they were a gay little people, fond 
of music and ceremonial dancing, passionately attached to their ancestral 
caves, which they decorated with commemorative paintings, not unfriendly 
to strangers who did not poach upon the hunting grounds which had been 
their undisputed property from the distant past." — Times. 

" We can only recommend the work highly to all interested in ethnological 
points. In the descriptions of the social condition of the Bushmen we find 
things that remind us of French life as depicted by a Parisian journalist. 
What is said concerning the dances is of special interest to students of 
primitive culture. To such indeed there is scarcely a page without a message. 
The reproductions of the Bushmen paintings are marvellously interesting, 
and the illustrations of stone implements, Basutu wall decorations, musical 
instruments, weapons, pipes, and copper castings add greatly to the value of 
a work of singular interest ." — Notes and Queries. 

' ' The book is of uncommon interest to students of ethnology, and its 
value is greatly enhanced not merely by explicit statements of old tribal 
relationships and manners, but by illustrations which vividly pourtray not 
a little that is typical of races of men who seem destined to go to the wall in 
consequence of the inevitable march of modern progress." — Standard. 

' ' This valuable work deals historically rather than descriptively with the 
native races, Bushmen, Hottentots, and Basutu, but for all that there is 
much information for the anthropologist, especially with regard to the 
Bushmen. An especially valuable feature is the map showing Mr. Stow's 
conclusions as to lines of tribal migration which, if criticizable in detail, 
is none the less of the highest importance. For the get-up of the work it is 
impossible to find anything but praise. Both print and illustrations are 
excellent and there is an index of over fifty pages ; not only so, but in 
contrast with anthropological works issued by some firms the index has been 
prepared by some one who knew what was wanted ." — Folk Lore. 

" A volume, portly in size, well-printed and effectively illustrated, which, 
though not ideal in arrangement, must be of singular interest to anthro- 
pologists and folk-lorists. The most remarkable race — the Bushmen, their 
habits and weapons, social customs, beliefs, superstitions, methods of 
hunting, etc., are described and must be regarded as a contribution to 


anthropology of permanent value. The remainder of the book, which deals 
with the intrusions of the Hottentots and Basutu, is of somewhat less 
importance, although like the earlier part of the volume, it abounds with 
new matter, most useful both to historical and anthropological students. 
Fresh light is thrown upon, among other things, problems connected with 
the mixture of races. The many illustrations add greatly to the usefulness 
of the book." — Antiquary. 

"In 1848 Mr. Stow set to work to gather together reliable information 
regarding the manners and customs and the early history of the various 
tribes inhabiting the country. The results of his researches are most 
ably set forth in this work, which is the most valuable and complete, so far 
as the Native races of South Africa are concerned, which has yet appeared. 
The illustrations of Bushman art add considerably to the general value and 
utility of the work." — Journal of Boy al Colonial Institute. 

" The work is of great value. Nearly half of its 560 bulky pages deal 
exclusively with the Bushmen. The second half or more dealing with the 
Hottentot and Basutu encroachments is less satisfactory. But for all that 
the latter, scarcely less than the earlier chapters, abound in new and useful 
information for all who will take the pains to search it out." — Athenceum. 

" Mr. Stow's work is valuable and interesting although it is by no means 
a complete history, or even an attempt at such, of the whole Basutu race. 
It is a sufficient apology for the Bushmen. It glances at every phase of his 
tribal life. It reproduces in excellently printed chromolithographs specimens 
of the various cave paintings to be met with where Bushmen have wandered, 
reproductions which one ventures to think are more representative of 
Bushman art than the copies presented by Dr. Bleek to the British Museum. 
It gives examples of Khoi Khoi folk tales ; some of them new, others again 
extracts from the works of older writers, from whom Mr. Stow had borrowed 
wisely." — Speaker. 

" Mr. Stow's work will live. It will be as a fruitful vineyard for those 
who follow, for it is packed with good things that were acquired with infinite 
patience in the course of his 86 years of residence in the country." — 
Yorkshire Post. 

" There can be no two opinions as to the value of the contents. It 
represents the results of many years of minute observation and laborious 
research into a world which is rapidly vanishing. The book is a storehouse 
of information on which every future student of South Africa will draw. 
A special word of praise must be given to the excellent index." — Manchester 
Guardian. 

"Mr. Stow's work is a monument of patient and careful research made at 
a time when primitive customs had scarcely been touched by contact with 
the white man, and when the tracks of the great race movements were 
still comparatively clear. It is therefore one of the most valuable of recent 
additions to the study of ethnography." — Glasgow Herald. 

" By far the most complete work hitherto put before the public on this, 
subject, the book is at the same time, and in spite of its bulk, of absorbing, 
interest from cover to cover. The work will for all time be referred to as 
one of authority on its subject." — British South African Gazette. 

' ' This is a very important work which in some portions will probably rank 
as a classic on African ethnology. No such admirable picture has ever been 
drawn before of the Bushmen's mode of life, his physical structure, beliefs, 
and surroundings. The book is one to which it is impossible to do full 
justice in a review. Would that there were more Stows in the African 
world to produce such splendid studies of vanishing and altering peoples." — 
Sir H. H. Johnston in Geographical Journal. 


History of South Africa 

BY 

GEORGE McCALL THEAL, Litt.D., LL.D. 

The whole of the above work has now been re-arranged, and will 

he issued, with important additions to each volume, as follows : — 

History and Ethnography of South Africa, 

1505 to 1795 

In three volumes, price 7s. 6d. each 

Yol. I. Description of the Bushmen, Hottentots, and Bantu, an account 
of the voyages round the Cape of Good Hope of the Portuguese, 
the French, the English, and the Dutch, and a history of the 
Portuguese in South Africa in early times. 

Yol. II. Foundation of the Cape Colony by the Dutch. 

Vol. III. Account of the Dutch, Portuguese, Hottentot, and Bantu. 

History of South Africa since 1795 

In five volumes, price 7s. 6d. each 

Vol. I. Cape Colony from 1795 to 1828, the Zulu wars of devastation and 
the formation of new Bantu communities. 

Vol. II. Cape Colony from 1828 to 1846, Natal from 1824 to 1845, and 
proceedings of the emigrant farmers in the territory between 
the Orange and Limpopo Rivers from 1836 to 1847. 

Vol. III. Cape Colony from 1846 to 1860, Natal from 1845 to 1857, British 
Kaffraria from 1847 to 1860, and the Orange River Sovereignty 
and the Transvaal Republic from 1847 to 1854. 

Vol. IV. The Orange Free State, the South African Republic, Zululand, 
Basutoland, Betshuanaland, andMatabeleland from 1854 to 1872. 

Vol. V. Cape Colony and Natal to 1872, Griqualand West to 1880, Great 
Namaqualand, Damaraland, Transkei, Tembuland, and 
Griqualand East to 1885, Pondoland and the Portuguese 
Territory to 1894. 


Some Opinio?is of the Press on 

The History and Ethnography of South Africa, 
1505 to 1795 

"Dr. Theal's works are always full of the information required by the 
student in piecing together the threads of history and forming an idea of 
the people who made it. His several volumes cover most of the historical 
periods relating to South Africa of which any records exist, and it is only 
by penetrating zeal that he has unearthed these records and given them to 
us in a connected form. The chief interest in this volume centres in the 
collected light which the author throws upon the ethnography of the 
aboriginal races, more especially upon the Bushmen and Hottentots, for 


they are practically dead races. It is assumed that the Bushmen migrated 
at a remote period to South Africa. Of their pursuits, conditions, customs, 
and characteristics much of interest will be found in the book. They were 
incapable of civilisation, yet possessed the singular faculty of mimicry and 
the power, inherited by no other tribe, of animal painting, of which remains 
are to be found on cave walls in most of the Colonies. Similarly the author 
traces the characteristics of the Hottentots — imaginative, musical, happy 
people, who were unable to rise beyond a low level and were doomed to be 
submerged in the flood of immigration by a higher caste. Concerning the 
Bantu Dr. Theal has much to say which other contemporary writers confirm 
from different aspects. He contributes, however, some entertaining features 
about the Ovaherero, of whom little is known." — Times. 

"It is impossible in a brief notice to give but a faint idea of the wealth 
of matter in this book. Dr. Theal has devoted his life to the collection of 
material for his various South African histories, and presents the results 
of years of research work in a well-ordered narrative. To the antiquary, 
the anthropologist, and the folk-lorist, the earlier chapters of the volume 
before us offer a wealth of material. The later chapters, being more purely 
historical, have a more limited interest ; but those which deal with the life, 
the customs, games, weapons, implements, and lore and practice of every 
kind, of the aboriginal Bushmen, of the Hottentots, and of the various tribes 
of the Bantu, who are supposed to have migrated from the north, are of 
great and lasting scientific importance. The five chapters, especially, which 
treat of the Bantu race, of the movements of their tribes, of their religious 
ideas, traditional law, witchcraft, chants and musical instruments, marriage 
and other customs — some very horrible — folk-lore, industries, manufactures 
— they were workers in various metals — games, manners, and so forth, are 
all of extraordinary interest. Such work as Dr. Theal' s must be for the 
most part its own reward, but it earns the grateful thanks of scholars and 
students, and of all who can appreciate the value of such unselfish and 
unremitting labour and research as must have gone to the making of the 
volume before us." — Antiquary. 

" The book is of fascinating interest, not only to the historical 
student, but to anyone interested in the early stages of human develop- 
ment and thought. The book is one which should be included in the 
library of every South African, and everyone interested in South Africa." — 
African World. 

' ' This volume deals especially with the Portuguese in South Africa before 
the close of the seventeenth century from the year 1505 to 1700. The first 
chapters deal exclusively with the original inhabitants of Southern Africa, 
and a great deal of valuable information is rendered accessible regarding the 
original Bushmen who occupied the greater part of South Africa until 
a century or two before the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope by 
Europeans, when they were deprived of a considerable portion of it by the 
people, known to us as Hottentots and Bantu, who came down from the 
North." — Journal of the Royal Colonial Institute. 

" Dr. Theal's great work on South Africa is well known. It is, indeed, 
in many aspects, a standard authority on the subject. The present volume 
gives an elaborate and scholarly account of the native races — Bushmen, 
Hottentots, Bantu — together with the Arab and Persian settlements in 
S.E. Africa. The author's profound and extensive learning is beyond 
question, and in these earlier volumes of the history of Africa, at least, 
there need be no doubt as to the historian's impartiality." — Standard. 

' ' Of both Hottentots and Bushmen Dr. Theal gives an account which is 
hardly less valuable, though rather shorter, than those contained in that 
monumental work by the late Mr. G. W. Stow, which Dr. Theal himself so 
ably edited a few years since. Regarding the Bantu, the author commits 


himself little beyond accepting their own statement that they came from the 
Far North, of which, indeed, there is abundant historic evidence. Of the 
various tribes, however, he gives a good account, and upon tribal customs 
and beliefs much light is thrown by the relation of numerous incidents and 
superstitions . ' ' — South Africa. 

"Dr. Theal's fairness and accuracy as a historian have long been 
recognized, and in the present volume he makes acknowledgment of the 
encouragement and assistance which he received from prominent men at 
the Cape." — Westminster Gazette. 

' ' This scholarly record of the settlement of South Africa prior to the 
British conquest should prove invaluable to the student and, we would add, 
to the writer of fiction who uses South African backgrounds." — Natal 
Witness. 

" The story of the foundation of the Dutch power in South Africa has 
never before been told in so accessible and readable a form. Dr. Theal 
knows the subject as few men know it, and has produced a most interesting 
narrative." — Antiquary. 

" Dr. Theal's histories of South Africa are of course classic, and this 
series is admirably appointed in every way." — Glasgoio Herald. 

' ' All that need be said of the book is that it is fully worthy of the 
knowledge and industry of Dr. Theal." — Man. 

" The impending union of South Africa gives added value and interest to 
these annals of the past, which must always rank as of leading authority on 
this subject." — Scotsman. 

' ' There is a great charm as well as exceptional utility about all 
Dr. Theal's work as an historiographer. Those who have been privileged 
to see Dr. Theal in his habit as he works, and to note his penetrative 
methods, will be the more appreciative of the finished product, as in such 
annals it reveals itself." — African World. 

" It presents a narrative of events in great detail, and every page provides 
evidences of painstaking and diligent research and that indefatigable 
industry which characterizes the author, who, as Colonial historiographer 
and a former Keeper of the Archives of Cape Colony, has had every 
facility at hand for compiling an authoritative and notable work." — Notts 
Guardian. 


Some Opinions of the Press on 

The History of South Africa since 1795, 

Yol. Y 

" There is no gainsaying the care with which Dr. Theal has collected 
and stated his facts or the fair-minded spirit in which he has sought to 
draw his conclusions. A valuable feature of the present work is the list of 
printed books and pamphlets containing information on South Africa in 
recent times, and a chronological list of events brought down to 1860, 
which between them occupy thirty pages." — Scotsman. 

"A great deal of what Dr. Theal narrates is extraordinarily interesting. 
The chapters which are the most attractive are the first seven chronicling 
the domestic events of Cape Colony." — Times. 


" Probably it will become recognized that the author's standpoint is really 
the South African one, and this being the case, his works are assured of 
a permanent and ever-growing appreciation in the country with which they 
deal, and where, despite Dr. Theal's international reputation, they should 
be most read ." — South Africa. 


Extract from the Appendix to Yol. Ill of 

History and Ethnography of South Africa 

Notes on Books 

Records of South-Eastern Africa , nine demy octavo volumes, each of 
over five hundred pages, published in London from 1898 to 1903. These 
may be seen in the great libraries of Europe and Canada, as well as in South 
Africa. They contain a large number of Portuguese records copied from the 
originals, extracts from old Portuguese histories, the whole of the African 
portion of the Ethiopia Oriental of Dos Santos, and much more, together 
with English translations of them all, and a number of documents and 
extracts from ancient books in French, Dutch, and English, with a copious 
index of the whole. These volumes had their origin in the following 
manner : 

The Eight Honourable Cecil John Ehodes was Prime Minister of the 
Cape Colony, and as such secretary for native affairs. I was chief clerk in 
the native affairs department, a portion of my duty consisting in preparing 
documents, condensing masses of correspondence, etc., etc., for the use of 
my head. One morning he asked me if I knew anything about Francisco 
Barreto's expedition into South Africa. I told him all that I knew of it, 
which was very little more than the short account given by De Couto. After 
a few questions on other subjects, he said I could be much more usefully 
employed in collecting information upon the past than in doing mere routine 
work in the office, and at once he issued instructions that I was to be 
detached for special duty. He asked me to go out to Groot Schuur that 
afternoon, when he would tell me what he wanted and would show me some 
books he had just received from England. 

That afternoon I went to Groot Schuur, when Mr. Ehodes told me he 
wanted me first to get out a history of South Africa in Dutch, as he had 
promised some Members of Parliament to have that done. Next he wanted 
me to collect all the information that could be got upon Francisco Barreto's 
expedition, and lastly I was to try to find out something about the early 
movements of the Bantu tribes. I said that would take me to Europe, 
possibly to Cairo, and probably to Goa and East Africa. He merely replied, 
''well, there are plenty of steamers." Further instructions I had none. 
I asked him for them some days later, when he said ' ' do the work, and do 
it as well as it can be done, that is all ". 

Before I could leave South Africa Sir Gordon Sprigg succeeded Mr. Ehodes 
as Prime Minister of the Cape Colony. He desired me to carry out the 
instructions I had received, and as I began to be afraid that I might not find 
anything, in which case people might say I was doing nothing for my 
salary, at my request he gave me the copying and publication of the early 
English colonial records in London. This then was the work that I relied 
upon to show that I was doing something, but the other was the real object 
of my mission to Europe. 


The Yellow and Dark-skinned People of Africa, 
South of the Zambesi 

A Description of the Bushmen, the Hottentots (and particularly 
the Bantu). With fifteen plates and numerous Folk-lore 
tales of these 'different people. By Geokge McCall Theal, 
Litt.D., LL.D. 8vo. 10s. 6cl. 

" The re-issue of Dr. Theal's history being now completed, he has brought 
together in a compact and handy form the ethnographical information 
previously scattered through his eight volumes. While doing this he has 
added so much as to make virtually a new book, for which all students will 
be grateful. Dr. Theal's industry, patience, and fairness are beyond all 
praise. The conceptions of agriculture, not as a drudgery imposed on 
women, but as their prerogative by virtue of discovery, and of a supposed 
mysterious connexion between their nature and the productiveness of the 
earth, focusses the facts in an entirely new light." — Athenceum. 

" Although his account of the fast vanishing Bushmen and Hottentots 
is clearly and brightly written, he does not seem to have much that is 
new to say of them. In dealing with the various Bantu stocks, Dr. Theal 
possesses the great advantage of many years' personal acquaintance with 
them. This lends great vividness to his description of their manners, and 
allows him to speak as a first-hand authority in discussing the character of 
their minds." — Westminster Gazette. 

"The subject is highly interesting, and a perusal of the work, which 
is illustrated throughout, is to be recommended to all who desire to become 
acquainted with the habits and peculiarities of peoples about whom few have 
more than a vague knowledge." — African Journal of Commerce. 

' ' By using all the information at command, Dr. Theal has constructed 
a consecutive history of the changing peoples that have successively swept 
over the face of the country. The object of his work is to examine the 
evidence, to discuss the peculiarities of these several branches which in 
South Africa are represented by the Bushmen, the Hottentots, and the 
Bantu, of whom the last are incomparably the most important. The 
description of this race, the account of their folk-lore, the military 
organization, the amusements and occupations, make an interesting story." — 
Protestant Evangelical Mission Record. 

"Dr. Theal's book is an exceedingly useful addition to the surprisingly 
small collection of literature on this important subject." — United Empire. 

' ' Ethnographical and folk-lore students will be grateful for the labour 
which has thus collected and arranged so much valuable material. It is a 
storehouse of ethnographical and folk-lore detail. The book may be regarded 
as mainly a monograph on the Bantu people, such a monograph as only 
Dr. Theal could have written." — Antiquary. 

" The thanks of ethnologists and those who are interested in the manners, 
customs, beliefs, and history of the races of South Africa are due to 
Dr. Theal for culling the chapters on ethnography from his monumental 
History of South Africa, and presenting them with the additional matter 
in a handy volume. This book is the best general account of the Bushmen, 
Hottentots, and Southern Bantu that we possess." — Morning Post. 

" First of all it is a most agreeable book to read. Dr. Theal has quite the 
gift of descriptive writing. Next it is a book packed with reliable information, 
for Dr. Theal scarcely yields to Mr. Sidney Hartland in scientific equipment 


for the study of the Bantu, and then all the facts are so admirably arranged, 
and the index is so exhaustive, that its facts can be used for the larger 
study of religion in a moment. We can imagine the joy with which 
Dr. J. G. Frazer will receive it. For many a day it will remain the standard 
authority on the South African natives ." — Expository Times. 

"Dr. Theal has written a book of absorbing interest. It is no exaggeration 
to say that Dr. Theal has written a book which will for long contain the last 
word on the South African native races." — Academy . 

' ' The time of publication is opportune since the Union of British South 
Africa has vested in one Government the responsibility for administering the 
native races of the sub-continent. This volume is a storehouse of facts. 
Dr. Theal is an authority on Bantu folk-lore and gives specimens of this and 
of Hottentot and Bushman stories ." — Saturday Review. 

"As a general view of the native races, their migrations, customs, and 
mental activities, it may be commended as forming an excellent introduction 
to more detailed study ." — Folk Lore. 


London : 

GEORGE ALLEN & COMPANY, Ltd., 

44 & 45 Rathbone Place, Oxford Street, W. 










