About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/reynardfoxinsou00blee

--------------------------------------

REYNARD THE FOX 

IN

SOUTH AFRICA; 



OR, 



HOTTENTOT FABLE AND TALES. 



CHIEFLY TRANSLATED FROM ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS 
IN THE 
LIBRARY
OF
HIS EXCELLENCY SIR GEORGE GREY, K.C.B.




BY

W.H.I. BLEEK, Ph.D. 



LONDON : 

TRÜBNER AND CO., 60, PATERNOSTER ROW. 
1864. 



[The Right of Translation is reserved.] 



LONDON : 

"WILLIAM STEVENS, PRINTER, 37, BELL YARD, 

TEMPLE YARD. 



THIS BOOK BELONGS TO 



CHILDREN IN SOUTH AFRICA AND ELSEWHERE, 



AND TO THEIR FRIEND 



SIR GEORGE GREY, K.C.B., 

NOW IN NEW ZEALAND. 



CONTENTS. 



I. Jackal Fables. 



1. The Lion's Defeat . . . . 1 

2. The Hunt of the Lion and Jackal . 3 

3. The Lion's Share . . . .5 

4. The Jackal's Bride . . 9 

5. The White Man and the Snake . .11 

6. Another Yersion of the same Fable . . 13 

7. Cloud-Eating . . . .14 

8. Fish-Stealing . . . . 16 

9. Which was the Thief? . . .18 

10. The Lion's Illness . . . 19 

11. The Dove and the Heron . . .21 

12. The Cock . . . . 23 

13. The Leopard and the Ram . . .24 



II. Tortoise Fables. 

14. The Elephant and the Tortoise . 27 

15. The Giraffe and the Tortoise . . .30 

16. The Tortoises Hunting the Ostriches . . 32 



viii 



CONTENTS. 



III. Baboon Fables. 



PAGE 



17. 


Tlie Judgment of the Baboon « 


33 


18. 


The Lion and the Baboon 


37 


19. 


The Zebra Stallion . 


39 


20. 


The Lost Child (a Tale) . . . . 


42 


21. 


The Baboon Shepherd (a Tale) 


44 




IY. Lion Fables. 




22. 


The Flying Lion . . . 


45 


23. 


The Lion who thought himself Wiser than his 






Mother . 


47 


24. 


The Lion who took a Woman's Shape 


50 


25. 


A Woman transformed into a Lion (a Tale) 


57 


26. 


The Lion and the Bushman (a Tale) 


59 




Y. Various Fables. 




27. 


How a Nam a Woman outwitted the Elephants . 


61 


28. 


A Bad Sister .... 


65 




VI. Sun and Moon Fables. 




29. 


Why has the J ackal a long black Stripe on his 






Back? . . . 


67 


30. 


The Horse cursed by the Sun . 


68 


31. 


The Origin of Death . . . 


69 


32. 


Another Version of the same Fable 


71 


33. 


A Third Version of the same Fable 


72 



CONTENTS, 



ix 



PAGE 

34. A Fourth "Version of the same Fable . . 73 

35. A Zulu Version of the Legend of the " Origin of 

Death" . . . . 74 

YIL Heitsi Eibip and other Legends. 

36. Heitsi Eibip . . . .75 

37. The Victory of Heitsi Eibip . . 77 

38. Another Version of the same Legend . . 78 

39. The Raisin-Eater . . . 80 

40. Origin of the Difference in Modes of Life between 

Hottentots and Bushmen . . .83 

VIII. Household Tales. 

41. The Little Wise Woman . . . 85 

42. The Unreasonable Child to whom the Dog gave 

its Deserts ; or, a Receipt for getting any one 

to Sleep . . . . .90 



PREFACE. 



My dear Sir George, 

In inscribing to you this little book, I do no 
more than offer that which is your due, as its ap- 
pearance is mainly owing to you. It was by your 
desire that I wrote, in 1861, to different Missionaries 
in South Africa, requesting them to make collections 
of Native Literature, similar in nature to those 
which, through your instrumentality, had been so 
abundantly rescued from oblivion in New Zealand. 
I then wrote, among others, to the Rev. G. Kronlein, 
Rhenish Missionary at Beerseba, Great JNTamaqua- 
land ; but it was not till after you had left us, on a 
new mission of honour and duty, that I received 
from him (at five different periods) the original manu- 
scripts from which most of the Fables given here 
are translated. He sent us, altogether, twenty-four 



xii 



PREFACE. 



Fables, Tales, and Legends, besides twelve Songs of 
Praise, thirty-two Proverbs, and twelve Piddles ; all 
in Hottentot (as taken down by him from the month 
of the Natives) and German, partly accompanied by 
explanatory notes, including fragments of the /Nusa * 
Bushman language. Mr. Kronlein's manuscripts 
fill sixty-five pages, mostly in quarto, with double 
columns. 

You are aware that the existence of Fables among 
the Hottentots was already known to us through Sir 
James Alexander's " Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa " (8vo., two vols., London, 
1838), and that some interesting specimens of their 
literature had been given by him in that work ; but 
that Fables form so extensive a mass of traditionary 
Native literature amongst the Namaqua, has first 
been brought to light by Mr. Kronlein's communica- 
tions. The fact of such a literary capacity existing 
among a nation whose mental qualifications it has 
been usual to estimate at the lowest standard, is of 
the greatest importance ; and that their literary 
activity (in contradistinction to the general character 



* Cisgariepian, from the Nama point of view, i e., to the 
North of the Orange River. 



PREFACE. 



xiii 



of Native literature among Negro nations) has been 
employed almost in the same direction as that which 
had been taken by our own earliest literature, is in 
itself of great significance. 

Some questions of no trifling importance and in- 
terest are raised by the appearance of such an un- 
looked-for mine of literary lore, particularly as to the 
originality of these Fables. Whether they are indeed 
the real offspring of the desert, and can be considered 
as truly indigenous Native literature, or whether they 
have been either purloined from the superior white 
race, or at least brought into existence by the stim- 
ulus which contact with the latter gave to the Native 
mind (like that resulting in the invention of the 
Tshiroki and Vei alphabets) may be matters of dis- 
pute for some time to come, and it may require 
as much research as was expended upon the solv- 
ing of the riddle of the originality of the Ossianic 
poems. 

But whatever may be the ultimate result of such 
inquiries, whether it will confirm our idea of the 
originality and antiquity of the main portion of these 
Hottentot Fables, and consequently stamp them with 
the character of the oldest and most primitive literary 
remains of the old mother tongue of the Sexdenoting 



xiv 



PREFACE. 



nations, or whether they have only sprung up recently 
among the Hottentots from foreign seed — in either 
case the disposition of the Hottentots to the enjoy- 
ment of such Fables, and their easy growth on this 
arid soil, be it their native or adopted one — shows 
a much greater congeniality between the Hottentot 
and European mind than we find between the latter 
and any of the black races of Africa. 

This similarity in the disposition of nations can 
in itself indeed hardly be considered as a valid proof 
of common ancestry ; but if there be other grounds 
to make us believe that the nations in question, or at 
least their languages, are of common origin, it may 
render us more inclined to assume that such a simi- 
larity in their literary taste is derived also from the 
same source. 

The great ethnological difference between the Hot- 
tentots and the black nations of South Africa has 
been a marked fact from almost the earliest acquaint- 
ance of Europeans with these parts, and occasional 
stray guesses (for example, in R. Moffat's " Mission- 
ary Labours and Scenes in Southern Africa," 1842, 
p. 6), have already for some time pointed to a North 
African origin for the Hottentots. 

It is, however, only within the last dozen years 



PREFACE. 



XV 



that this has been established as a proved, and, I be- 
lieve to most observers, an, at first, astonishing fact. 
I well remember still the feeling of most curious 
interest with which I regarded Knudsen's translation 
of Luke's Gospel (vol. i., No. 15 of your Library), 
when, in April 1850, it was sent me by the then 
Inspector of the Ehenish Mission House, the Eev J. 
0. Wallmann, for the purpose of ascertaining whether 
the language was in any way akin to those of the 
surrounding black nations, and whether, on that ac- 
count, an already acquired acquaintance with any of 
the Hottentot dialects would render it easier for a 
Missionary to master one of the Negro or Kafir 
tongues.* 



# I give here some extracts from Mr. Wallmann's letter, 
dated Barmen, 13th April, 1850, which was the only help 
of a grammatical or lexical nature then available for me in 
my study of this Nama translation of Luke's Gospel : — 

" I transmit hereby Luke's Gospel in ISTamaqua, . . . 
which I can lend you, however, only for four weeks, as I 
have already previously promised it to some one else. 

" Should your labours permit it, I wish to request you to 
make a little trial whether the Nam aqua is somewhat 
related to the South African family of Languages. For 
the present a mere negative decision on this point is all 
that is wanted, and I should like to have very soon the 
opinion of sgme good philologist regarding it. Moffat 



xvi 



PBEFACE. 



I had, however, at that time not the least idea of 
the results to which a knowledge of this language 



states that when he gave specimens of Kamaqua to a 
Syrian who came from Egypt, he was told that he (the 
Syrian) had seen slaves in the market of Cairo who were of 
lighter colour than other Africans, and whose language 
resembled that of the Namaqua. Moffat also says that 
some ancient authors have mentioned a nation in the 
interior of Africa who were very similar to the Hottentots. 
Moffat seems himself, however, to ascribe little value to 
these accounts, for his guesses fall at once upon the 
Chinese. According to communications from our Mis- 
sionary Knudsen, the Namaqua language seems well 
formed. He mentions as personal pronouns : — 

Tita saaz xyh sada sako xyku 
I thou he we you they 



but to show the modifications which the pronouns undergo 
according to the gender, and whether the person (spoken to) 
is included or excluded (in the first person plural), the fol- 
lowing examples of inclusive or exclusive forms are given : — 

" We are captains." 

(incl.) Salce Ice Icauaulce *) 



(//eijo) 



(J/eiku) 




(incl.) Sase Ice Jcautase 1 ^ 
(excl.) Sise Tee Jcautase ) 
(incl.) Sada Ice tana-khoida 




(incl.) Sakhom he hauauhhoma 
(excl.) Silchom ke Jcauaukhoma 



dual, mascul. 

* 



PREFACE. 



XVil 



would lead me ; and being then mostly occupied with 
the study of the Setshuana and kindred languages — 
which psemed to me of paramount interest for com- 
parative philology — I did not at first give undivided 
attention to the perusal of this curious volume. I 
remarked very soon, however, a striking similarity 
between the Hottentot signs of gender and those of 
the Coptic language ; but for some time I considered 
it as purely accidental, which may be seen from a 
letter of mine regarding this subject, published by 
Mr. Wallmann, in " Berichten der Eheinischen Mis- 



" The second person of the plural is said to have not more 
than half as many distinctions ; and the third person plural 
has only the following : — 



xyku k e hauauga — niascul. 
xyte he hautate — fern. 
xyn he tana-hhoina — com. 
Xyhha he hauauhhei — dual, mascul. 
xy r <i & e hauteur a — dual fern. 
xyr<% he tana-hlwira — dual. com. 



"You will therefore oblige me by looking into the 
Namaqua Luke, and by having the kindness to write me 
your opinion regarding it." 




(incl.) Saam he tana-hhoima 
(excl.) Siim he tana-hhoima 



dual. 



com. 



b 



xviii 



PREFACE. 



sions- Gesellschaft " (Reports of the Rhenish. Mission- 
ary Society, 1850, No. 24, if I am not mistaken in 
the number). 

Soon, however, what were at first mere isolated 
facts, became links, in a chain of evidence, showing 
that all those Sexdenoting Languages which were then 
known to us in Africa, Asia, and Europe, are members 
of one large family, of which the primitive type has, 
in most respects, been best preserved to us in the 
Hottentot language. 

It was even as early as the end of 1850 that I 
could write to Mr. Wallmann — " This language (the 
Hottentot) is to me at this moment of greater interest 
than any other. The facts, of which once before I 
have given you some account, have now so increased 
upon me, and offer such strong analogies, that there 
is no further doubt in my own mind that not only 
the Coptic but also the Semitic, and all other lan- 
guages of Africa (as Berber, the Gralla dialect, &c, 
&c.) in which the distinction of the masculine and 
feminine gender pervades the whole grammar, are 
of common origin." 

Part of the result of these researches was then pub- 
lished in my dissertation, " De Nominum Greneribus 
Linguarum Africa), Australis, Copticse, Semiticarum 



JPBUFACU. 



xix 



aliarumque Sexualium" (8vo., Bonn, 6th August, 
1851, vol. i., No. 1 of your Library). 

I was at that time not aware — nor has it come to 
my knowledge till within the last few weeks — that 
on the 10th June, 1851, Dr. J. 0. Adamsox, in com- 
municating to the Syro- Egyptian Society some obser- 
vations on the analysis of languages, with a special 
reference to those of South Africa, had stated "That 
the signs of gender were almost identical in the 
Namaqua and the Egyptian, and the feminine affix 
might be considered as being the same in all three" * 
(Namaqua, Galla, and Old Egyptian). 

Another curious agreement on this point, by an 
apparently independent observer (Mr. J. R. Logan), f 



# Report of the Correspondence and Paper read at the 
General Meeting of the Syro-Egyptian Society, Session of 
1851 and 1852. Read at the Anniversary Meeting, held 
April 20th, 1852, 8vo. pp. 6, 8. 

f " Ethnology of the Indo-Pacific Islands." By J. R. 
Logan, Esq., Hon. Fellow of the Ethnological Society. Lan- 
guage, Part ii. " The Races and Languages of S.E. Asia, 
considered in relation to those of the Indo-Pacihc Islands," 
Chapter v., sections i. to vi. [From the Journal of the In- 
dian Archipelago and Eastern Asia, June and December, 
1853, to December, 1854.] Singapore : Printed by Jakob 
Baptist, 8vo., pp. 229, 294, sec. 6. The Semitico-African 

h 2 



XX 



PREFACE. 



was pointed out to me by your Excellency. You 
also suggested this name of "Sexdenoting Languages." 
But it is superfluous for me to say any thing of what 
you have done for the advancement of African, as 
well as Australian and Polynesian, philology. 

It has been justly remarked by our learned friend, 
Mr. Justice Watermeyer, that the natural propen- 
sities of animals in all parts of the world being so 
much alike, Fables intended to portray them must 
also be expected to resemble each other greatly, even 
to their very details. 

But we may well ask why it is that, so far as we 
know, the Kafir imagination seems not at all inclined 
to the formation of this class of fictitious tales, though 
they have otherwise a prolific Native literature of a 
more or less historic and legendary character. This 
contrast to what we find among the Hottentots ap- 
pears not to be accidental, but merely a natural con- 
sequence of that difference of structure which dis- 
tinguishes these two classes of languages, embracing 
respectively the dialects of the Hottentots on the one 



Languages, viz. : — 1. General Characters, p. 229; 2. Egyptian, 
p. 248 ; 3. Hottentot^ p. 248 ; 4. Shemo-Hamitic, or Assyro- 
Berber, p, 259. 



PREFACE. 



xxi 



hand, and those of the Kafirs and their kindred na- 
tions on the other ; in the former (the Hottentot), 
as in all other really Sexdenoting Languages, the 
grammatical divisions of the nouns into genders, which 
do not tally exactly with any distinction observed in 
nature, has been brought into a certain reference to 
the difference of sex ; and on that account this dis- 
tinction of sex seems in some way to extend even to 
inanimate beings, whereby a tendency to the per- 
sonification of impersonal objects is produced, which 
in itself is likely to lead the mind towards ascribing 
reason and other human attributes to irrational beings. 
This is the real orgin of almost all those poetical 
conceptions which we call Fables and Myths. 
Both are based on the personification of imper- 
sonal beings — the former by ascribing speech and 
reason to the lower animals, whilst the latter sub- 
stitute human-like agencies in explanation of celes- 
tial and other elementary phenomena in place of 
their real cause. 

Mythology is, in its origin, most generally either 
a mere figure of speech or a poetical explanation 
suggested by the grammatical form or etymological 
meaning of words, indicating certain striking natural 
phenomena. In the primary stage of their produc- 



xxii 



PREFACE. 



tion, Myths may be supposed to have been always 
understood in their true original character ; and it 
is only when in the course of generations their real 
origin has been obscured, and they have become 
merely the petrified excrescences of a traditionary 
creed, that their apparent absurdity makes them at 
first sight almost inexplicable, particularly when 
found among nations of a high intelligence. 

The humbler sisters of the Myths, the Fables based 
on the natural propensities of animals, are not obscured 
in their real character so easily as the former, and 
have, on that account, more generally retained their 
simple usefulness as moral teachers ; so, though they 
may have preceded even Myths as to the date of their 
first conception, they yet outlive them as real and 
salutary elements of the best national literatures : not 
that Myths had not their own beneficial sphere in the 
education of mankind, as leading them on to higher 
abstract ideas, and even deeper religious thoughts, 
but their very power of exerting a much deeper in- 
fluence on the destinies of our race, made it essential 
that they should have a more transitory existence in 
the civilizing process of the Sexdenoting nations — 
who have to give up mythologies so soon as through 
them they have gained higher religious ideas — while 



\ 



PREFACE. xxiii 

Fables, which, never claim so high, a place among the 
elements of furthering the eliminating process of our 
species, remain always welcome to most classes of 
readers at certain periods of their intellectual deve- 
lopment. 

Children, and also simple-minded grown-up people, 
whose taste has not been spoiled by the poison of 
over-exciting reading, will always be amused by the 
quaintly expressed moral lessons which they receive 
through every good Fable ; and the more thorough 
student of literature will also regard with pleasure 
these first innocent plays of awakening human imagi- 
nation. To all these the Hottentot Fables offered 
here may not be unwelcome as a fresh store of 
original compositions, or even as old acquaintances 
who gain a new interest in different clothing and 
scenery. 

To make these Hottentot Fables readable for the 
general public, a few slight omissions and alterations 
of what would otherwise have been too naked for the 
English eye were necessary, but they do not in any 
essential way affect the spirit of the Fables. Other- 
wise, the translation is faithful to the original, though 
not exactly literal. 

It would of course be presumptuous to believe that 



xxiy 



we could liere discuss fully the originality or date of 
composition of these Fables, and all the many ques- 
tions involved therein. 

The modern origin of some of the Fables, as, for 
instance, that of The Cock (12), Fish-Stealing (8), 
The Judgment of the Baboon (17), and The Curse 
of the Horse (30), is very evident ; others, e.g., The 
White Man and the Snake (5 & 6), indicate clearly 
a European origin. Others, however, have strong 
claims to be regarded not merely as genuine products 
of the Hottentot mind, but even as portions of a tra- 
ditionary Native literature, anterior in its origin to 
the advent of Europeans. 

That the latter is a true view of the subject 
becomes perhaps the more conclusive by the inti- 
mate relations in which, among the Hottentots, 
Myths still stand to Fables ; in fact, a true mytho- 
logy can hardly be said to exist among them ; for 
Myths (as that of The Origin of Death) are in 
reality as much Fables as Myths; but we may 
consider these as analogous to the first germs whence 
sprung those splendid mythologies which have filled 
with deep devotional feelings the hearts of many 
millions among the most intelligent races of the 
earth. 



PREFACE. 



XXV 



This higher flight of the imaginative faculty 
which the Sexdenoting nations possess (through the 
stimulus of this personification of impersonal things, 
consequent upon the grammatical structure of their 
languages), and what it had been to them, be- 
comes the more evident if we compare their lite- 
rature with that of the Kafirs and other black tribes 
of South Africa. 

As the grammatical structure of languages spoken 
by the latter does not in itself suggest personifica- 
tion, these nations are almost, as a matter of course, 
destitute of Myths as well as Fables. Their literary 
efforts are, as a general rule, restricted to narrating the 
doings of men in a more or less historical manner — 
whence we have a number of household tales, and 
portions of a fabulous history of these tribes and na- 
tions ; or their ancestor worship and belief in the 
supernatural give rise to horrible ghost stories and 
tales of witchcraft, which would be exciting if they 
were not generally told in such a long-winded, 
prosy manner, as must make the best story lose 
its interest. 

Of course for the comparative philologist, and for 
any one who takes an interest in observing the work- 
ing of the human mind in its most primitive stages, 



xxvi 



PREFACE. 



these pieces of Kafir and Negro native literature 
will also liave their own interest ; it is therefore to 
be hoped that time and circumstances may soon 
allow us to publish also the other portions of South 
African native literature extant in manuscript in 
your library. 

Among these we have principally to mention, as 
new contributions (received after your departure), 
twenty-three pieces in o Tyi-herero, or the Damara 
language, as written down by natives themselves, 
copied by the Rev. J. Rath (Rhenish Missionary, for- 
merly in Damara Land, now at Sarepta Knils River), 
and accompanied with a German translation by 
him.* 



* Mr. Hath's Manuscript consists of sixty-one pages, with 
double columns, foolscap folio. It contains the following 
pieces : — 

1. The Spectre Sweethearts, pp. 1, 2. 

2. The Lion Husbands, pp. 2, 5. 

3. Tenacity of a Loving Mother's Care, pp. 5, 6. 

4. The Girl who ran after her Father's Bird, pp. 6, 12. 

5. The Handsome Girl, pp. 12, 15. 

6. The Little Bushman Woman, pp. 17, 18. 

7. Punishment of Imposition, pp. 19, 21. 

8. The Spectre who Fell in Love with his Son's Wife, 

pp. 22, 23. 

9. The Lunatic, p. 23. 



PREFACE. XXvii 

Among these pieces there are seven ghost stories, 
four accounts of transformation of men or animals, 
eleven other household tales, one legend, and one fable. 
This last piece (No. 11, pp. 27, 29) is probably of 
Hottentot origin. I have therefore thought it best 
to give it a place in this little book (No. 14), where 
it precedes that Hottentot Fable, to which its conclud- 



10. The Girls who Escaped from the Hill Damaras, pp. 

24, 26. 

11. The Elephant and the Tortoise, pp. 27, 29. 

12. The Two Wives, pp, 29, 33. 

13. The Lion who took different Shapes, pp. 34, 35. 

14. The Little Girl left in the Well by her wicked Com- 

panions, pp. 35, 38. 

15. The Unreasonable Child to whom the Dog gave its 

Deserts, pp. 39, 43. 

16. Rutanga, p. 44. 

17. The Ghost of the Man who was Killed by a Rhinoceros 

in consequence of his Father's Curse, pp. 45, 47. 

18. The Trials of Hambeka, a Spirit risen from the Dead, 

pp. 47, 50. 

19. The Little Girl who was teased by an Insect, p. 51. 

20. The same as 16 (Rutanga) p. 52. 

21. Conjugal Love after Death, p. 53. 

22. The Bad Katjungu and the Good Kahavundye, pp. 

54,57. 

23. The Wife who went after her Husband, pp. 57, 59. 

24. The Little Girl Murdered by the Hill Damara, pp. 

59, 61. 



xxviii 



PREFACE. 



ing portions bear such a striking resemblance. It 
is not unlikely that the beginning of this Hottentot 
Fable of The Giraffe and the Tortoise is missing. It 
may have been similar to the beginning of the corres- 
ponding one in Damara. As far as it goes the Hot- 
tentot Fable is however evidently more original than 
the o Tyi-herero text. As a specimen of o Tyi- 
herero household tales, I have given Rath/s fif- 
teenth piece, the story of The Unreasonable Child 
to whom the Dog gave its Deserts. 

You will also approve of my having added the Zulu 
legend of the Origin of Death, which in its mixture 
of Fable and Myth, and even in several details of its 
composition, shows a great analogy to the Hottentot 
treatment of the same subject, of which I am able to 
give here four different versions. 

A second version of two or three other fables, 
and of one legend, has also been given from one 
of the two important manuscripts in German, re- 
garding the Hottentots and their language, pre- 
pared for you by Mr. Knudsen.* The same manu- 



# The title of Mr. Knudsen's first Manuscript is, " Siid- 
africa : Das Hottentot- Yolk ; Notizzen (Manuscript) H. C. 
Knudsen." 4to., p. 12. Its contents are, Bushman Land, 



PREFACE. 



xxix 



script supplied also a legend of The Origin of Dif- 
ference in Modes pt Life between Hottentots and 
Bushmen, which we do not yet possess in the Hot- 
tentot language. 

To make our available stock of Nama Hottentot 
literature quite complete, three fables and four tales 



p. 3 ; the different kinds of Rain, p. 3 ; Bethany (in Great 
Namaqualand), p. 3; the Bamara, p. 4 ; the Grassy Plain, 
p. 4 ; the Diseases, pp. 4, 5 ; Birdsnests, p. 5 ; Marriage 
and Wedding among tlie ISTamaqua, p. 5 ; Extent of Autho- 
rity among the Namaqua, p. 5 ; Similarity with the Jewish 
manner of Thinking, Counting, Eating, Drinking, Praying, 
Mode of Speech, and manner of Reckoning Relationship, 
p. 6 ; Heitsi Eibip or Kabip, p. 7 ; Origin of the Modes of 
Life of the ISTamaqua and Bushmen, pp. 7, 8; Coming of 
Age among the Hottentots, p. 8; Names of Hottentot 
Tribes and their probable Etymology, pp. 8, 9; Are the 
Hottentots of Egyptian or Phoenician Origin ? p. 9 ; Are 
the Hottentots of Jewish or Moabitic Origin ? pp. 9, 10 ; 
Appendix, pp. 11, 12. 

Mr. Knudsen's second Manuscript has the following 
title, " Stoff zu einer Grammatik in der Namaquasprache 
(Manuscript), H. C. Knudsen." 4to. pp. 29. After a few 
general introductory remarks, and a short explanation of 
the Hottentot Alphabet, Mr. Knudsen treats of the dif- 
ferent Parts of Speech : — I. Nouns, pp. 3, 4 ; II. Adjectives, 
pp. 4, 5 ; III. Pronouns, pp. 5, 10 ; IY. Numerals, p. 11 ; 
Y. Yerbs, pp. 12, 24 ; Interrogative Sentences, pp. 25, 26 ; 
Concluding Remarks, pp. 26, 29. 



XXX 



PREFACE. 



have been taken from Sir James Alexander's " Expe- 
dition/' &c, and inserted here, with only few insigni- 
ficant verbal alterations. 

The " Songs of Praise/' given as notes to some of 
the Fables in this volume, are merely intended as 
specimens of Hottentot poetry. They can hardly be 
expected to amuse or interest the general reader — 
at least, not in the form in which they appear 
here, though a Longfellow might be able to render 
some of them in a way that would make them at- 
tractive. 

In the same manner the materials contained in 
these Hottentot Fables might be worked out similarly 
to Goethe's "Reinecke Fuchs ;" and we should hereby 
probably gain an epical composition, which, though 
not ranking so high as the latter poem, would yet, 
as regards the interest of its subject-matter, far ex- 
ceed Longfellow's " Hiawatha " in adaptation to the 
general taste. 

How much Native productions gain when repre- 
sented skilfully and properly, your admirable work 
on " Polynesian Mythology " has shown. But you 
had sterner and more important work on hand, 
and so I have had to do this without you. That it 
does not appear in a still more imperfect form, I owe 



PREFACE. 



xxxi 



mainly to the help of one who naturally takes the 
greatest interest in all my pursuits. 

In writing the last lines of this Preface, the interest 
which I feel for these Hottentot Fables is almost 
fading away before those rich treasures of your library 
which have just arrived from England ; and as all 
our present efforts are of course given to the proper 
settling of these jewels of our library, I can merely 
send, with grateful acknowledgments, our most fer- 
vent wishes for your well-doing, and our sincere hope 
of seeing you, at no distant day, again in the midst 
of us. 

Believe me, 

My dear Sir George, 

Yours most faithfully, 

W. H. I. BLEEK. 



Capetown, April, 1863. 



JACKAL FABLES. 



1. THE LION'S DEFEAT. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir G-. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 19, 20.) 

THE wild animals, it is said, were once assembled 
at the Lion's. When the Lion was asleep, the Jackal 
persuaded the little Fox* to twist a rope of ostrich 
sinews, in order to play the Lion a trick. They took 
ostrich sinews, twisted them, and fastened the rope to 
the Lion's tail, and the other end of the rope they 
tied to a shrub. When the Lion awoke, and saw that 
he was tied up, he became angry, and called the 
animals together. When they had assembled, he 
said (using this form of conjuration) — 

# The little Fox, in Nama the IKamap, a small kind of 
Jackal, who is a swift runner. The Jackal's name is 
/Girip. (The / is the dental and the / the cerebral click ; 
vide Notes to Fables 23 and 27, pp. 47, 62.) 



2 JACKAL FABLES. 

" What child of his mother and father's love, 
"Whose mother and father's love has tied me ?" 

Then answered the animal to whom the question 
was first put — 

" I, child of my mother and father's love, 
I, mother and father's love, I have not done it." 

All answered the same ; but when he asked the 
little Fox, the little Fox said — 

" I, child of my mother and father's love, 
I, mother and father's love, have tied thee !" 

Then the Lion tore the rope made of sinews, and 
ran after the little Fox. But the Jackal said — 

" My boy, thou son of the lean Mrs. Fox, thou wilt 
never be caught." 

Truly the Lion was thus beaten in running by the 
little Fox. 



2. THE HUNT OF THE LION AND JACKAL. 



(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 18, 19.) 

THE Lion and the Jackal, it is said, were one day 
lying in wait for elands. The Lion shot (with the 
bow) and missed, but the Jackal hit and sang out, 
"Hah! Hah!" The Lion said, "No, you did not 
shoot anything. It was I who hit." The Jackal 
answered, " Yea, my father, thou hast hit." Then 
they went home in order to return when the eland 
was dead, and cut it up. The Jackal, however, turned 
back, unknown to the Lion, hit his nose so that the 
blood ran on the spoor of the elands, and followed 
their track thus, in order to cheat the Lion. When 
he had gone some distance, he returned by another 
way to the dead eland, and creeping into its carcase, 
cut out all the fat. 

Meanwhile the Lion followed the bloodstained spoor 
of the Jackal, thinking that it was elands' blood, and 
only when lie had gone some distance did he find out 
that he had been deceived. He then returned on the 

b 2 



4 



JACKAL FABLES. 



Jackal's spoor, and reached the dead eland, where, 
finding the Jackal in its carcase, he seized him by 
his tail and drew him out with a swing. 

The Lion upbraided the Jackal with these words : 
" Why do you cheat me ?" The Jackal answered : 
" No, my father, I do not cheat you ; you may know 
it, I think. I prepared this fat for you, father." The 
Lion said : " Then take the fat and bring it to your 
mother " (the Lioness) ; and he gave him the lungs 
to take to his own wife and children. 

When the Jackal arrived, he did not give the fat 
to the Lion's wife, but to his own wife and children ; 
he gave, however, the lungs to the Lion's wife, and 
he pelted the Lion's little children with the lungs, 
saying : 

" You children of the big-pawed one ! 
You big-pawed ones ! " 

He said to the Lioness, " I go to help my father " 
(the Lion) ; but he went quite away with his wife 
and children. 



5 



3. THE LION'S SHARE. 

(From a German original Manuscript in Sir Gr. Grey's Library, 
viz., H. C. Knudsen's " Notes on the Hottentots," pp. 11, 12.) 

THE Lion and the Jackal went together a-hunting. 
They shot with arrows. The Lion shot first, but 
his arrow fell short of its aim ; but the Jackal hit the 
game, and joyfully cried out, " It has hit." The 
Lion looked at him with his two large eyes ; the 
Jackal, however, did not lose his countenance, but 
said, 6 • No, Uncle, I mean to say that you have hit." 
Then they followed the game, and the Jackal passed 
the arrow of the Lion without drawing the latter' s 
attention to it. When they arrived at a cross-way, the 
Jackal said, "Dear Uncle, you are old and tired ; stay 
here." The Jackal went then on a wrong track, beat 
his nose, and, in returning, let the blood drop from it 
like traces of game. "I could not find anything," he 
said, " but I met with traces of blood. You had better 
go yourself to look for it. In the meantime I shall go 
this other way." The Jackal soon found the killed 
animal, crept inside of it, and devoured the best por- 



6 



JACKAL FAB LB 8. 



tion ; but his tail remained outside, and when the 
Lion arrived, he got hold of it, pulled the J ackal out, 
and threw him on the ground with these words : 
" You rascal!" The Jackal rose quickly again, 
complained of the rough handling, and asked, "What 
have I then now done, dear Uncle ? I was busy 
cutting out the best part." "Now let us go and 
fetch our wives," said the Lion ; but the Jackal en- 
treated his clear Uncle to remain at the place because 
he was old. The Jackal went then away, taking with 
him two portions of the flesh, one for his own wife, 
but the best part for the wife of the Lion. When the 
Jackal arrived with the flesh, the children of the Lion 
saw him, began to jump, and clapping their hands, cried 
out, "There comes Uncle with flesh!" The Jackal 
threw, grumbling, the worst portion to them, and 
said, " There, you brood of the big-eyed one !" Then 
he went to his own house and told his wife im- 
mediately to break up the house, and to go where the 
killed game was. The Lioness wished to do the same, 
but he forbade her, and said that the Lion would 
himself come to fetch her. 

When the Jackal, with his wife and children, had 
arrived in the neighbourhood of the killed animal, he 
ran into a thorn bush, scratched his face so that it 
bled, and thus made his appearance before the Lion, 



Tim LION'S SB ABB. 



7 



to whom he said, "Ah! what a wife you have got. 
Look here, how she scratched my face when I told 
her that she should come with us. You must 
fetch her yourself; I cannot bring her." The Lion 
went home very angry. Then the Jackal said, 
" Quick, let us build a tower." They heaped stone 
upon stone, stone upon stone, stone upon stone ; 
and when it was high enough, everything was carried 
to the top of it. When the Jackal saw the Lion ap- 
proaching with his wife and children, he cried out to 
him, " Uncle, whilst you were away we have built a 
tow^er, in order to be better able to see game." 
" All right," said the Lion ; " but let me come up to 
you." " Certainly, dear Uncle ; but how will you 
manage to come up ? We must let down a thong for 
you." The Lion ties himself to the thong, and is 
drawn up ; but when he is nearly at the top the thong 
is cut by the Jackal, who exclaims, as if frightened, 
" Oh, how heavy you are, Uncle ! Go, wife, fetch me 
a new thong." (" An old one," he said aside to her.) 
The Lion is again drawn up, but comes of course 
do wn in the same manner. "No," said the Jackal, 
" that will never do ; you must, however, manage to 
come up high enough, so that you may get a mouth- 
ful at least. Then aloud he orders his wife to pre- 
pare a good piece, but aside he tells her to make a 



8 



JACKAL FABLES. 



stone hot, and to cover it with fat. Then he drew 
up the Lion once more, and, complaining that 
he is very heavy to hold, he tells him to open his 
mouth, whereupon he throws the hot stone down his 
throat. When the Lion has devoured it, he entreats 
and requests him to run as quickly as possible to the 
water. 



4. THE JACKAL'S BRIDE. 



(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grrey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 7, 8.) 

THE J ackal, it is said, married the Hyena, and carried 
off a cow belonging to ants, to slaughter her for the 
wedding ; and when he had slaughtered her, he put 
the cow- skin over his bride ; and when he had fixed 
a pole (on which to hang the flesh), he placed on the 
top of the pole (which was forked) the hearth for 
cooking, in order to cook upon it all sorts of delicious 
food. There came also the Lion to the spot, and 
wished to go up. The Jackal, therefore, asked his 
little daughter for a thong with which he could pull 
the Lion up, and he began to pull him up ; and when 
his face came near to the cooking-pot, he cut the 
thong in two, so that the Lion tumbled down. Then 
the Jackal upbraided his little daughter with these 
words : "Why do you give me such an old thong ?" 
And he added, " Give me a fresh thong." She gave 
him a new thong, and he pulled the Lion up again, 
and when his face came near the pot, which stood on 



10 



JACKAL FABLES. 



the fire, lie said, " Open your mouth." Then he put 
into his mouth a hot piece of quartz which had been 
boiled together with the fat, and the stone went down, 
burning his throat. Thus died the Lion. 
. There came also the ants running after the cow, 
and when the Jackal saw them he fled. Then they 
beat the bride in her brookaross dress. The Hyena, 
believing that it was the J ackal, said — 

" You tawny rogue ! have you not played at beating 
long enough ? 
Have you no more loving game than this ?" 

But when she had bitten a hole through the cow- 
skin, she saw that they were other people ; then she 
fled, falling here and there, yet she made her escape. 



11 



5. THE WHITE MAN AND THE SNAKE. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 5, 6.) 

A White Man, it is said, met a Snake upon whom a 
large stone had fallen and covered her, so that she 
could not rise. The White Man lifted the stone off 
the Snake, but when he had done so, she wanted to 
bite him. The White Man said, " Stop ! let us both 
go first to some wise people." They went to the 
Hyena, and the White Man asked him, " Is it right 
that the Snake should want to bite me, though I 
helped her, when she lay under a stone and could not 
rise ?" 

The Hyena (who thought he would get his share of 
the White Man's body) said : " If you were bitten 
what would it matter ? " 

Then the Snake wanted to bite him, but the White 
Man said again: "Wait a little, and let us go to 
other wise people, that I may hear whether this is 
right." 

They went and met the Jackal. The White Man 
said to the Jackal : "Is it right that the Snake wants 



12 



JACKAL FABLES. 



to bite me, though I lifted up the stone which lay upon 
her ?" 

The Jackal replied: "I do not believe that the 
Snake could be covered by a stone and could not rise. 
Unless I saw it with my two eyes, I would not believe 
it. Therefore, come let us go and see at the place 
where you say it happened whether it can be true." 

They went, and arrived at the place where it had 
happened. The Jackal said: " Snake, lie down, and 
let thyself be covered." 

The Snake did so, and the White Man covered 
her with the stone ; but although she exerted herself 
very much, she could not rise. Then the White Man 
wanted again to release the Snake, but the Jackal in- 
terfered, and said : " Do not lift the stone. She 
wanted to bite you ; therefore she may rise by her- 
self." 

Then they both went away and left the Snake 
under the stone. 



13 



6. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE SAME 
FABLE. 

(From a German original Manuscript in Sir Gr. Grey's Library, 
H. 0. Knudsen's " Notes on the Hottentots," p. 11.) 

A Dutchman was walking by himself, and saw a 
Snake lying under a large stone. The Snake implored 
his help ; but when she had become free, she said, 
"Now I shall eat you." 

The Man answered, "That is not right. Let us 
first go to the Hare." 

When the Hare had heard the affair, he said, " It 
is right." " No," said the Man, " let us ask the 
Hyena." 

The Hyena declared the same, saying, " It is right." 

" Now let us at last ask the Jackal," said the Man 
in his despair. 

The J ackal answered very slowly and considerately, 
doubting the whole aifair, and demanding to see first 
the place, and whether the Man was able to lift the 
stone. The Snake lay down, and the Man, to prove 
the truth of his account, put the stone again over her. 

When she was fast, the Jackal said, " Now let her 
lie there." 



14 



7. CLOUD-EATING. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grrey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 30, 31.) 



THE HYENA. 

Tliou who makest thy escape from the tumult ! 
Thou wide, roomy tree ! 

Thou who gettest thy share (though with trouble !) 
Thou cow who art strained at the hocks ! # 
Thou who hast a plump round knee ! 
Thou the nape of whose neck is clothed with hair ! 
Thou with the skin dripping as if half-tanned ! 
Thou who hast a round, distended neck ! 
Thou eater of the Namaqua, 
Thou "big-toothed one ! 



THE J ackal and the Hyena were together, it is said, 
when a white cloud rose. The Jackal ascended upon 
it, and ate of the cloud as if it were fat. 

When he wanted to come down, he said to the 
Hyena, "My sister, as I am going to divide with 

* " When the Hyena first starts, it appears to be lame 
on the hind legs, or gone in the loins, as one would say of 
a horse." — L. Layard. 



CLOUD-EATING. 



15 



thee, catch me well." So she caught him, and broke 
his fall. Then she also went up and ate there, high 
up on the top of the cloud. 

When she was satisfied, she said, " My greyish 
brother, now catch me well." The greyish rogue said 
to his friend, "My sister, I shall catch thee well. 
Come therefore down." 

He held up his hands, and she came down from the 
cloud, and when she was near, the Jackal cried out 
(painfully jumping to one side), a My sister, do not 
take it ill. Oh me ! oh me ! A thorn has pricked me, 
and sticks in me." Thus she fell down from above, 
and was sadly hurt. 

Since that day, it is said, that the Hyena's left hind 
foot is shorter and smaller than the right one. 



.16 



8. FISH-STEALING. 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's " Expedition of Discovery into the 
Interior of Africa," vol. ii. pp. 246, 247.) 

THE HYENA. 

(Addressing her young ones, on her return from a 
marauding expedition, with regard to the perils she had 
encountered). 

The fire threatens, 

The stone threatens, 

The assegais threaten, 

The guns threaten, 

Yet you seek food from me. 

My children, 

Do I get anything easily ? 



ONCE upon a time a Jackal, who lived on the borders 
of the colony, saw a waggon returning from the sea- 
side laden with fish. He tried to get into the waggon 
from behind, but he could not ; he then ran on be- 
fore, and lay in the road as if dead. The waggon 
came up to him, and the leader cried to the driver, 
" Here is a fine kaross for your wife ! " * 



FISK- STEALING. 



17 



" Throw it into the waggon/' said the driver, and 
the Jackal was thrown in. 

The waggon travelled on through a moonlight night, 
and all the while the Jackal was throwing the fish out 
into the road ; he then jumped out himself, and se- 
cured a great prize. But a stupid old Hyena coming 
by, ate more than her share, for which the Jackal 
owed her a grudge ; so he said to her, " You can 
get plenty of fish, too, if you lie in the way of a wag- 
gon as I did, and keep quite still whatever happens. 5 ' 

" So !" mumbled the Hyena. 

Accordingly, when the next waggon came from the 
sea, the Hyena stretched herself out in the road. 

" What ugly thing is this ?" cried the leader, and 
kicked the Hyena. He then took a stick and thrashed 
her within an inch of her life. The Hyena, accord- 
ing to the directions of the Jackal, lay quiet as long 
as she could ; she then got up and hobbled off to tell 
her misfortune to the Jackal, who pretended to com- 
fort her. 

" What a pity/' said the Hyena, " that I have not 
such a handsome skin as you !" 



18 



9. WHICH WAS THE THIEF ? 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's "Expedition of Discovery into the 
Interior of Africa," vol. ii. p. 250.) 

A J ACEA.L and a Hyena went and hired themselves to 
a man to be his servants. In the middle of the night 
the Jackal rose and smeared the Hyena's tail with some 
fat, and then ate all the rest of it which was in 
the house. In the morning the man missed his fat, 
and he immediately accused the Jackal of having 
eaten it. 

" Look at the Hyena's tail," said the rogue, " and 
you will see who is the thief." The man did so, and 
then thrashed the Hyena till she was nearly dead. 



19 



10. THE LION'S ILLNESS. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gk Grey's 
Library, GL Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 29, 30.) 

THE Lion, it is said, was ill, and they all went to see 
him in his suffering. But the Jackal did not go, 
because the traces of the people who went to see him 
did not turn back. Thereupon, he was accused by 
the Hyena, who said, " Though / go to look, yet the 
Jackal does not want to come and look at the man's 
sufferings." 

Then the Lion let the Hyena go, in order that she 
might catch the Jackal ; and she did so, and brought 
him. 

The Lion asked the Jackal : " Why did you not 
come here to see me ?" The Jackal said, " Oh no ! 
when I heard that my uncle was so very ill, I went 
to the witch (doctor), to consult him, whether and 
what medicine would be good for my uncle against 
the pain. The doctor said to me, ' Go and tell your 
uncle to take hold of the Hyena and draw off her 
skin, and put it on while it is still warm. Then he 

c 2 



20 



JACKAL FABLES. 



will recover/ The Hyena is one who does not care 
for my uncle's sufferings." 

The Lion followed his advice, got hold of the 
Hyena, drew the skin over her ears, whilst she howled 
with all her might, and put it on. 



21 



11. THE DOVE AND THE HERON 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 13, 14.) 

THE Jackal, it is said, came once to tlie Dove, wlio 
lived on the top of a rock, and said, " Give me one 
of your little children." The Dove answered : "I 
shall not do anything of the kind." The Jackal said 
" Give it me at once ! Otherwise, I shall fly up to 
you." Then she threw one down to him. 

He came back another day, and demanded another 
little child, and she gave it to him. After the Jackal 
had gone, the Heron came, and asked, " Dove, why 
do you cry ?" The dove answered him : " The 
Jackal has taken away my little children ; it is for this 
that I cry." He asked her, "In what manner can 
he take them?" She answered him: " When he 
asked me I refused him ; but when he said, 6 1 shall 
at once fly up, therefore give it me/ I threw it down 
to him." The Heron said, " Are you such a fool as to 
give your children to the Jackals, who cannot fly ?" 
Then, with the admonition to give no more, he went 
away. 



22 



JACKAL FABLJES. 



The Jackal came again, and said, " Dove, give 
me a little child." The Dove refused, and told him 
that the Heron had told her that he could not fly up. 
The Jackal said, " I shall catch him." 

So when the Heron came to the banks of the water, 
the Jackal asked him: " Brother Heron, when the 
wind comes from this side, how will you stand ?" He 
turned his neck towards him and said, "I stand 
thus, bending my neck on one side." The Jackal 
asked him again, " When a storm comes and when 
it rains, how do you stand ?" He said to him : " X 
stand thus, indeed, bending my neck down." 

Then the Jackal beat him on his neck, and broke 
his neck in the middle. 

Since that day the Heron's neck is bent. 



23 



12. THE COCK. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 29.) 

THE Cock, it is said, was once overtaken by the 
Jackal and caught. The Cock said to the Jackal, 
" Please, pray first (before you kill me) as the white 
man does." The Jackal asked, " In what manner 
does he pray? Tell me." "He folds his hands in 
praying," said the Cock. The Jackal folded his 
hands and prayed. Then the Cock spoke again : 
" You ought not to look about you as you do. You 
had better shut your eyes." He did so ; and the 
Cock flew away, upbraiding at the same time the 
Jackal with these words : " You rogue ! do you also 
pray ?" 

There sat the Jackal, speechless, because he had 
been outdone. 



24 



13. THE LEOPARD AND THE RAM. 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's "Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," vol. ii. pp. 247, 250.) 

A LEOPARD was returning home from hunting on 
one occasion, when he lighted on the kraal of a Ram. 
Now the Leopard had never seen a Ram before, and 
accordingly, approaching submissively, he said, "Grood 
day, friend ! what may your name be p" 

The other, in his gruff voice, and striking his breast 
with his forefoot, said, "I am a Ram. "Who are 
you?" 

" A Leopard," answered the other, more dead than 
alive ; and then, taking leave of the Ram, he ran 
home as fast as he could. 

A Jackal lived at the same place as the Leopard 
did, and the latter going to him, said, " Friend Jackal, 
I am quite out of breath, and am half dead with fright, 
for I have just seen a terrible -looking fellow, with a 
large and thick head, and, on my asking him what 
his name was, he answered roughly, " I am a Ram !" 

" What a foolish Leopard you are !" cried the 



THE LEOPARD AND THE RAM. 25 

Jackal, to let such a nice piece of flesh stand ! "Why- 
did you do so ? But we shall go to-morrow and eat 
it together ! " 

Next day the two set off for the kraal of the Ram, 
and as they appeared over a hill, the Ram, who had 
turned out to look about him, and was calculating 
where he should that day crop a tender salad, saw 
them, and he immediately went to Lis wife, and said, 
" I fear this is our last day, for the Jackal and Leopard 
are both coming against us. What shall we do ? " 

" Don't be afraid," said the wife, "but take up the 
child in your arms ; go out with it, and pinch it to 
make it cry as if it were hungry." The Ram did so 
as the confederates came on. 

No sooner did the Leopard cast his eyes on the 
Ram, than fear again took possession of him, and he 
wished to turn back. The Jackal had provided against 
this, and made the Leopard fast to himself with a 
leathern thong, and said, "Come on !" when the Ram 
cried in a loud voice, and pinching his child at the 
same time, "You have done well, friend Jackal, to 
have brought us the Leopard to eat, for you hear 
how my child is crying for food !" 

On hearing these dreadful words, the Leopard, 
notwithstanding the entreaties of the Jackal to let 
him loose, set off in the greatest alarm, dragging the 



26 



JACKAL FAB LIE 8. 



Jackal after him over hill and valley, through bushes 
and over rocks, and never stopped to look behind him 
till he brought back himself and the half- dead Jackal 
to his place again. And so the Ram escaped. 



II. 

TORTOISE FABLES. 



THE SPRINGBOK (GAZELLE). 

"Woe is me ! He is one who goes 
Where his mother would not let him ! 
Who rolls off (the rocks), 
Rolling himself together like a book. 



14. THE ELEPHANT AND THE TORTOISE. 

(The original, in the o Tyi-herero or Damara language, is in the 
Library of Sir G-. Grey, J. Rath's Manuscript, pp. 27, 29.) 

TWO tilings, the Elephant and the Rain, had a dis- 
pute. The Elephant said, " If you say that you 
nourish me, in what way is it that you do so?" The 
Rain answered, " If you say that I do not nourish you, 
when I go away, will you not die ?" And the Rain 
then departed. 

The Elephant said, " Vulture ! cast lots to make 



28 



TORTOISE FABLES. 



rain for me ?" The Vulture said, " I will not cast 
lots." 

Then the Elephant said to the Crow, " Cast lots !" 
who answered, " Give the things with which I may 
cast lots." The Crow cast lots and rain fell. It 
rained at the lagoons, but they dried up, and only 
one lagoon remained. 

The Elephant went a-hunting. There was, however, 
the Tortoise, to whom the Elephant said, " Tortoise, 
remain at the water !" Thus the Tortoise was left 
behind when the Elephant went a-hunting. 

There came the Giraffe, and said to the Tortoise, 
" Give me water !" The Tortoise answered, " The 
water belongs to the Elephant." 

There came the Zebra, who said to the Tortoise, 
"Give me water!" The Tortoise answered, "The 
water belongs to the Elephant." 

There came the Gemsbok, and said to the Tortoise, 
"Give me water!" The Tortoise answered, "The 
water belongs to the Elephant." 

There came the Wildebeest, and said, " Give me 
water !" The Tortoise said, " The water belongs to 
the Elephant." 

There came the Roodebok, and said to the Tortoise, 
" Give me water !" The Tortoise answered, " The 
water belongs to the Elephant." 



THE ELEPHANT AND THE TORTOISE. 29 

There came the Springbok, and said to the Tortoise, 
"Give me water !" The Tortoise said, "The water 
belongs to the Elephant/' 

There came the Jackal, and said to the Tortoise? 
" Give me water!" The Tortoise said, " The water 
belongs to the Elephant." 

There came the Lion, and said, " Little Tortoise, 
give me water !" When the little Tortoise was about 
to say something, the Lion got hold of it and beat it ; 
the Lion drank of the water, and since then the ani- 
mals drink water. 

When the Elephant came back from the hunting, 
he said, "Little Tortoise, is there water ?" The Tor- 
toise answered, "The animals have drunk the water." 
The Elephant asked, " Little Tortoise, shall I chew 
you or swallow you down P" The little Tortoise said, 
"Swallow me, if you please;" and the Elephant 
swallowed it whole. 

After the Elephant had swallowed the little Tor- 
toise, and it had entered his body, it tore off his liver, 
heart, and kidneys. The Elephant said, "Little Tor- 
toise, you kill me." 

So the Elephant died ; but the little Tortoise came 
out of his dead body, and went wherever it liked. 



30 



15. THE GIRAFFE AND THE TORTOISE. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Or. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 5.) 

THE GIRAFFE. 

Thou who descendest river by river, 
Thou burnt thornbush (±aro) ! 
Thou blue one, # 

"Who appearest like a distant thornhill 
full of people sitting down. 



THE Giraffe and the Tortoise, they say, met one day. 
The Giraffe said to the Tortoise, " At once I could 
trample you to death." The Tortoise, being afraid, 
remained silent. Then the Giraffe said, " At once I 
could swallow you." The Tortoise said, in answer to 
this, " Well, I just belong to the family of those whom 
it has always been customary to swallow." Then the 
Giraffe swallowed the Tortoise ; but when the latter 
was being gulped down, it stuck in the Giraffe's throat, 

# " Because the Giraffe is said to give blue ashes when 
burnt." — Kronlexn. 



THE GIRAFFE AND THE TORTOISE. 31 

and as the latter could not get it down, he was choked 
to death. 

When the Giraffe was dead, the Tortoise crawled 
out and went to the Crab (who is considered as the 
mother of the Tortoise), and told her what had hap- 
pened. Then the Crab said — 

" The little Crab ! I could sprinkle it under its 
arm with boochoo,* 
The crooked-legged little one, I could sprinkle 
under its arm." 

The Tortoise answered its mother and said — 

" Have you not always sprinkled me, 
That you want to sprinkle me now ?" 

Then they went and fed for a whole year on the 
remains of the Giraffe. 



m In token of approval, according to a Hottentot custom. 



32 



16. THE TORTOISES HUNTING THE 
OSTEICHES. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Or. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 8.) 

ONE day, it is said, the Tortoises held a council how 
they might hunt Ostriches, and they said, " Let us, 
on both sides, stand in rows near each other, and let 
one go to hunt the Ostriches, so that they must flee 
along through the midst of us.'' They did so, and as 
they were many, the Ostriches were obliged to run 
along through the midst of them. During this they 
did not move, but, remaining always in the same 
places, called each to the other, " Are you there ?" 
and each one answered, " I am here/' The Ostriches 
hearing this, ran so tremendously that they quite 
exhausted their strength, and fell down. Then the 
Tortoises assembled by-and-by at the place where 
the Ostriches had fallen, and devoured them. 



III. 

BABOON FABLES. 



Heretse ! 
Heretse ! 

Thou thin- armed one, 
Who hast thin hands ! 
Thou smooth bulrush mat, 
Thou whose neck is bent. 

Thou who art made so as to be lifted up (upon a tree), 
Who liftest thyself up. 

Thou who wilt not die even behind that hill 

Which is yet beyond those hills, 

That lie on the other side of this far-distant hill. # 



17. THE JUDGMENT OF THE BABOON. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, of this little Namaqua- 
land Fable, is in Sir G. Grey's Library, G. Kronlein's Manuscript, 
pp. 33, 35.) 

ONE day, it is said, the following story happened. 
The Mouse had torn the clothes of Itkler (the tailor), 

# With reference to the Baboon's great power of dis- 
tancing his pursuers. 

D 



34 



BABOON FABLES. 



who then went to the Baboon, and accused the Mouse 
with these words : — 

" In this manner I come to thee : — The Mouse has 
torn my clothes, but will not know anything of it, 
and accuses the Cat ; the Cat protests likewise her 
innocence, and says the Dog must have done it ; but 
the Dog denies it also, and declares the Wood has 
done it ; and the Wood throws the blame on the 
Fire, and says, ' The Fire did it the Fire says, 6 1 
have not, the Water did it the Water says, ' The 
Elephant tore the clothes and the Elephant says, 
' The Ant tore them/ Thus a dispute has arisen 
among them. Therefore I, Itkler, come to thee with 
this proposition : Assemble the people and try them, 
in order that I may get satisfaction." 

Thus he spake, and the Baboon assembled them for 
trial. Then they made the same excuses which had 
been mentioned by Itkler, each one putting the blame 
upon the other. 

So the Baboon did not see any other way of punish- 
ing them, save through making them punish each 
other ; he therefore said — 

" Mouse, give Itkler satisfaction." 

The Mouse, however, pleaded not guilty. But the 
Baboon said, " Cat, bite the Mouse." She did so. 

He then put the same question to the Cat, and when 



THE JUDGMENT OF THE BABOON. 35 

she exculpated herself, the Baboon called to the Dog, 
" Here, bite the Oat." 

In this manner the Baboon questioned them all, one 
after the other, but they each denied the charge. Then 
he addressed the following words to them, and said — 
" Wood, beat the Dog. 
Fire, burn the Wood. 
Water, quench the Fire. 
Elephant, drink the Water. 
Ant, bite the Elephant in his most tender parts." 
They did so, and since that day they cannot any 
longer agree with each other. 

The Ant enters into the Elephant's most tender 
parts, and bites him. 

The Elephant swallows the Water. 
The Water quenches the Fire. 
The Fire consumes the Wood. 
The Wood beats the Dog. 
The Dog bites the Cat. 
And the Cat the Mouse. 
Through this judgment Itkler got satisfaction, and 
addressed the Baboon in the following manner : — 
" Yes ! Now I am content, since I have received 
satisfaction, and with all my heart I thank thee, 
Baboon, because thou hast exercised justice on my 
behalf, and given me redress." 

d 2 



36 



BABOON FABLES. 



Then the Baboon said, " From to-day I will not 
any longer be called Jan, but Baboon shall be my 
name." 

Since that time the Baboon walks on all fours, 
having probably lost the privilege of walking erect 
through this foolish judgment. (?) 



* 



37 



18. THE LION AND THE BABOON. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 14, 15.) 

THE BABOON. 

Thou hollow -cheeked son 

Of a hollow-cheeked one, 

My hollow- cheeked one ! 

Who hast two hip-bones, 

High hip-bones, 
With which thon sittest on the edge of the rock, 
Thou whose face appears like the edge of a rock. 



THE Baboon, it is said, once worked bamboos, sitting 
on the edge of a precipice, and the Lion stole upon 
him. The Baboon, however, had fixed some round, 
glistening, eye-like plates on the back of his head. 
When, therefore, the Lion crept upon him, he 
thought, when the Baboon was looking at him, that 
he sat with his back towards him, and crept with all 
his might upon him. When, however, the Baboon 
turned his back towards him, the Lion thought that 
he was seen, and hid himself. Thus, when the 



38 



BABOON FABLES. 



Baboon looked at him, he crept upon him. Whilst 
the Baboon did this, the Lion came close upon him. 
When he was near him the Baboon looked up, and 
the Lion continued to creep upon him. The Baboon 
said (aside), " Whilst I am looking at him he steals 
upon me, whilst my hollow eyes are on him." 

When at last the Lion sprung at him, he lay 
(quickly) down upon his face, and the Lion jumped 
over him, falling down the precipice, and was dashed 
to pieces. 



39 



19. THE ZEBRA STALLION. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 17.) 



THE ZEBRA. 

Thou who art thrown at by the great (shepherd) boys, 
Thou whose head the (kirrie's) throw misses ! 

Thou dappled fly, 

Thou party-coloured one, 

Who spiest for those, 

That spy for thee ! 

Thou who, womanlike, 

Art fall of jealousy. 



THE Baboons, it is said, used to disturb the Zebra 
Mares in drinking. But one of the Mares became 
the mother of a foal. The others then helped her 
to suckle (the young stallion), that he might soon 
grow up. 

When he was grown up, and they were in want of 
water, they brought him to the water. The Baboons, 



40 



BABOON FABLES. 



seeing this, carne, as they formerly were used to do, 
into their way, and kept them from the water. 

While the Mares stood thus, the Stallion stepped 
forward, and spoke to one of the Baboons, " Thou 
gum-eater's child !" 

The Baboon said to the Stallion, " Please open thy 
mouth, that I may see what thou livest on." The 
Stallion opened his mouth, and it was milky. 

Then the Stallion said to the Baboon, " Please open 
thy mouth also, that I may see." The Baboon did 
so, and there was some gum in it. But the Baboon 
quickly licked some milk off the Stallion's tongue. 
The Stallion on this became angry, took the Baboon 
by his shoulders, and pressed him upon a hot, flat rock. 
Since that day the Baboon has a bald place on his 
back. 

The Baboon said, lamenting, "I, my mother's child, 
I, the gum-eater, am outdone by this milk-eater !" 

THE ZEBRA. 

Thou 1 1 art shrub (L e. y tough shrub, Butch, 

" critdorn "), 
Thou who art of strong smell, 
Thou who rollest always in soft ground, 
Whose body retains the dust, 



THE ZJEJBEA STALLION. 

Thou split kirrie of the shepherd boys, 

Thou split knob of a kirrie. 

Thou who drivest away by thy neighiix 

The hunter who seeketh thee. 

Thou who Grossest all rivers 

As if they were but one. 



42 



20. THE LOST CHILD. — [A Tale.] 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's " Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," vol. ii. pp. 234, 235.) 

THE children belonging to a kraal were playing at 
some little distance from the huts with bows and 
arrows ; in the evening they all returned home, save 
one, a boy of five or six years old, who lingered be- 
hind, and was soon surrounded by a troop of baboons, 
who carried him up a mountain. 

The people turned out to recover the boy, and for 
days they hunted after him in vain ; he was nowhere 
to be seen ; the baboons also had left the neighbour- 
hood. 

A year after this had occurred, a mounted hunter 
came to the kraal from a distance, and told the people 
that he had crossed at such a place the spoor of 
baboons, along with the footmarks of a child. The 
people went to the place which the hunter had indi- 
cated, and they soon saw what they were in search 
of, viz., the boy, sitting on a pinnacle of rock, in com- 
pany with a large baboon. The moment the people 



the lost child. 43 

approached, the baboon took up the boy, and scam- 
pered off with him ; but, after a close pursuit, the boy 
was recovered. He seemed quite wild, and tried to 
run away to the baboons again; however, he was 
brought back to the kraal, and when he recovered his 
speech, he said that the baboons had been very kind 
to him; that they ate scorpions and spiders them- 
selves, but brought him roots, gum, and wild raisins, 
seeing that he did not touch the two first-uamed deli- 
cacies, and that they always allowed him to drink first 
at the waters. 



44 



21. THE BABOON SHEPHERD.— [A Tale.] 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's " Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," vol. ii. pp. 229, 230.) 

THE Namaquas say that, not long ago, a man had 
brought up a young Baboon, and had made it his 
shepherd. It remained by the flock all day in the 
field, and at night drove them home to the kraal, 
riding on the baqk of one of the goats, which brought 
up the rear. The Baboon had the milk of one goat 
allowed to it, and it sucked that one only, and guarded 
the milk of the others from the children. It also got 
a little meat from its master. It held the office of 
shepherd for twelve moons, and then was unfortu- 
nately killed in a tree by a Leopard. 



IV. 

LION FABLES. 



22. THE FLYING- LION. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 3, 4.) 

THE Lion, it is said, used once to fly, and at that 
time nothing could live before him. As he was un- 
willing that the bones of what he caught should be 
broken into pieces, he made a pair of White Crows 
watch the bones, leaving them behind at the kraal 
whilst he went a-hunting. But one day the great 
Frog came there, broke the bones in pieces, and said, 
" Why can men and animals live no longer ?" And 
he added these words, " When he comes, tell him that 
I live at yonder pool ; if he wishes to see me, he must 
come there." 

The Lion, lying in wait (for game), wanted to fly 
up, but found he could not fly. Then he got angry, 



46 



LION FABLES. 



thinking that at the kraal something was wrong, and 
returned home. When he arrived, he asked, " What 
have you done that I cannot fly ?" Then they an- 
swered and said, "Some one came here, broke the 
bones into pieces, and said, ' If he wants me, he may 
look for me at yonder pool V " The Lion went, and 
arrived while the Frog was sitting at the water's edge, 
and he tried to creep stealthily upon him. When he 
was about to get hold of him, the Frog said, "Ho !" 
and, diving, went to the other side of the pool, and 
sat there. The Lion pursued him ; but as he could 
not catch him he returned home. 

From that day, it is said, the Lion walked on his 
feet, and also began to creep upon (his game) ; and 
the White Crows became entirely dumb since the day 
that they said, " Nothing can be said of that matter/' 



47 



23. THE LION WHO THOUGHT HIMSELF 
WISER THAN HIS MOTHER. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 31, 33.) 

It is said that when the Lion and / ' gurikhoisip* (the 
Only man), together with the Baboon, the Buffalo, 
and other friends, were playing one day at a certain 
game, there was a thunderstorm and rain at ±uro- 
waams.-f The Lion and /gurikhoisip began to 
quarrel. "I shall run to the rain-field," said the Lion. 
/Gurikhoisip said also, " I shall run to the rain-field." 
As neither would concede this to the other, they 
separated (angrily). After they had parted, the 
Lion went to tell his Mother those things which they 
had both said. 

# The / is the dental click, which is " sounded by pressing 
the tip of the tongue against the front teeth of the upper 
jaw, and then suddenly and forcibly withdrawing it." — 

TlNDALL. 

f The ± is the palatal click, described in note to Fable 24, 
p. 55, and % is the German ch. 



48 



LION FABLES. 



His Mother said to him, " My Father ! that Man 
whose head is in a line with his shoulders and breast, 
who has pinching weapons, who keeps white dogs, 
who goes about wearing the tuft of a tiger's tail, be- 
ware of him !" The Lion, however, said, "Why need 
I be on my guard against those whom I know ?" The 
Lioness answered, " My Son, take care of him who 
has pinching weapons !" But the Lion would not 
follow his Mother's advice, and the same morning, 
when it was still pitch dark, he went to ±aroocaams, 
and laid himself in ambush. /Gurikhoisip went also 
that morning to the same place. When he had arrived 
he let his dogs drink, and then bathe. After they 
had finished they wallowed. Then also the man 
drank ; and, when he had done drinking, the Lion 
came out of the bush. The dogs surrounded him, as 
his mother had foretold, and he was speared by 
/gurikhoisip. Just as he became aware that he was 
speared, the dogs drew him down again. In this 
manner he grew faint. While he was in this state, 
I gurikhoisip said to the dogs, " Let him alone now, 
that he may go and be taught by his Mother/' So 
the dogs let him go. They left him, and went home 
as he lay there. The same night he walked towards 
home, but whilst he was on the way his strength 
failed him, and he lamented : 



TUB LIOJ^ AND HIS MOTHER. 49 

" Mother ! take me up ! 
Grandmother ! take me up! Oh me ! Alas !" 
At the dawn of day his Mother heard his wailing, 
and said — 

" My Son, this is the thing which I have told 
thee : — 

Beware of the one who has pinching weapons, 

Who wears a tuft of tiger's tail, 

Of him who has white dogs ! 

Alas ! Thou son of her who is short-eared, 

Thou, my short-eared child ! 

Son of her who eats raw flesh, 

Thou flesh-devourer ; 

Son of her whose nostrils are red from the 
prey, 

Thou with blood-stained nostrils ! 
Son of her who drinks pit- water, 
Thou water-drinker !" 



E 



50 



24. THE LION WHO TOOK A WOMAN'S 
SHAPE. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. G-rey's 
Library, Gr. Eronlein's Manuscript, pp. 60, 65.) 

SOME women, it is said, went out to seek roots and 
herbs and other wild food. On their way home they 
sat down and said, "Let us taste the food of the field." 
Now they found that the food picked by one of them 
was sweet, while that of the others was bitter. The latter 
said to each other, " Look here ! this woman's herbs 
are sweet." Then they said to the owner of the sweet 
food, " Throw it away and seek for other " — (sweet- 
tasted herbs being apparently unpalatable to the Hot- 
tentot). So she threw away the food, and went to 
gather more. When she had collected a sufficient 
supply, she returned to join the other women, but 
could not find them. She went therefore dowjL to the 
river, where the Hare sat lading water, and said to 
him, "Hare, give me some water that I may drink." 
But he replied, " This is the cup out of which my 
uncle (the Lion) and I alone may drink." 

She asked again : " Hare, draw water for me that 



THE LION WHO TOOK A WOMAN'S SHAPE. 51 



I may drink." But the Hare made the same reply. 
Then she snatched the cup from him and drank, but 
he ran home to tell his uncle of the outrage which 
had been committed. 

The Woman meanwhile replaced the cup and went 
away. After she had departed the Lion came down, 
and, seeing her in the distance, pursued her on the 
road. When she turned round and saw him coming, 
she sang in the following manner : — 

" My mother, she would not let me seek herbs, 
Herbs of the field, food from the field. Hoo !" 

When the Lion at last came up with the Woman, 
they hunted each other round a shrub. She wore 
many beads and arm-rings, and the Lion said, " Let 
me put them on !" So she lent them to him, but he 
afterwards refused to return them to her. 

They then hunted each other again round the shrub, 
till the Lion fell down, and the Woman jumped upon 
him, and kept him there. The Lion (uttering a form 
of conjuration) said: 

" My Aunt ! it is morning, and time to rise; 
Pray, rise from me!" 

She then rose from him, and they hunted again after 
each other round the shrub, till the Woman fell down, 

e 2 



52 



LION FABLES, 



and the Lion jumped upon her. She then addressed 
him : 

%M.j Uncle ! it is morning, and time to rise ; 
\Pray, rise from me !" 

He rose, of course, and they hunted each other again, 
till the Lion fell a second time. When she jumped 
upon him, he said : 

" My Aunt ! it is morning, and time to rise ; 
Pray, rise from me ! " 

They rose again and hunted after each other. The 
Woman at last fell down. But this time, when she 
repeated the above conjuration, the Lion said : 

" He Kha ! Is it morning, and time to rise ?" 

He then ate her, taking care, however, to leave her 
skin whole, which he put on, together with her dress 
and ornaments, so that he looked quite like a woman, 
and then went home to her kraal. 

When this counterfeit woman arrived, her little 
sister, crying, said, " My sister, pour some milk out 
for me." She answered, " I shall not pour you out 
any." Then the child addressed their Mother: 
" Mama, do pour out some for me." The Mother of 
the kraal said, " Go to your sister, and let her give 



TEE LION WHO TOOK A WOMAN'S SHAPE. 53 

it to yon !" The little child said again to her sister, 
"Please, ponr ont for me !" She, however, repeated 
her refusal, saying, " I will not do it." Then the 
Mother of the kraal said to the little one, " I refused 
to let her (the elder sister) seek herbs in the field, and 
I do not know what may have happened ; go there- 
fore to the Hare, and ask him to pour out for you." 

So the Hare gave her some milk ; but her elder 
sister said, " Come and share it with me." The little 
child then went to her sister with her bamboo (cup), 
and they both sucked the milk out of it. Whilst 
they were doing this, some milk was spilt on the little 
one's hand, and the elder sister licked it up with her 
tongue, the roughness of which drew blood ; this, too, 
the Woman licked up. 

The little child complained to her Mother : "Mama, 
sister pricks holes in me, and sucks the blood." The 
Mother said, "With what lion's nature your sister 
went the way that I forbade her, and returned, I do 
not know." 

Now the cows arrived, and the elder sister cleansed 
the pails in order to milk them. But when she ap- 
proached the cows with a thong (in order to tie their 
fore-legs), they all refused to be milked by her. 

The Hare said, " Why do not you stand before the 
cow?" She replied, "Hare, call your brother, and 



54 



LION FABLES. 



do you two stand before the cow." Her husband said, 
" "What has come over her that the cows refuse her ? 
These are the same cows she always milks." The 
Mother (of the kraal) said, " What has happened this 
evening ? These are cows which she always milks 
without assistance. What can have affected her that 
she comes home as a woman with a lion's nature ?" 

The elder daughter then said to her Mother, " I 
shall not milk the cows." With these words she sat 
down. The Mother said therefore to the Hare, 
" Bring me the bamboos, that I may milk. I do not 
know what has come over the girl." 

So the Mother herself milked the cows, and when 
she had done so, the Hare brought the bamboos to the 
young wife's house, where her husband was, but she 
(the wife) did not give him (her husband) anything 
to eat. But when at night time she fell asleep, they 
saw some of the Lion's hair, which was hanging out 
where he had slipped on the woman's skin, and they 
cried, " Yerily ! this is quite another being. It is for 
this reason that the cows refused to be milked." 

Then the people of the kraal began to break up 
the hut in which the Lion lay asleep. When 
they took off the mats, they said (conjuring them), 
" If thou art favourably inclined to me, 0 mat, give 
the sound ' saw a ' " (meaning, making no noise). 



THE LION WHO TOOK A WOMAN'S SHAPE. 55 



To the poles (on which the hut rested) they said, 
" If thou art favourably inclined to me, 0 pole, thou 
must give the sound ±gara"* 

They addressed also the bamboos and the bed-skins 
in a similar manner. 

Thus gradually and noiselessly they removed the hut 
and all its contents. Then they took bunches of grass, 
put them over the Lion, and lighting them, said, " If 
thou art favourably inclined to me, 0 fire, thou must 
flare up, ' boo boo, before thou comest to the heart/' 

So the fire flared up when it came towards the 
heart, and the heart of the Woman jumped upon the 
ground. The Mother (of the kraal) picked it up, and 
put it into a calabash. 

The Lion, from his place in the fire, said to the 
Mother (of the kraal), "How nicely I have eaten 
your daughter. " The Woman answered, " You have 
also now a comfortable place !" * * * 

Now the Woman took the first milk *of as many 
cows as calved, and put it into th6 calabash where her 
daughter's heart was ; the calabash increased in size, 
and in proportion to this the girl grew again inside it. 

# t Indicates the palatal click, which is sounded by 
pressing the tip of the tongue, with as flat a surface as 
possible, against the termination of the palate at the gums, 
and withdrawing it suddenly and forcibly. 



56 



LION FABLES. 



One day, when the Mother (of the kraal) went out 
to fetch wood., she said to the Hare, " By the time 
that I come back you must haye everything nice and 
clean." But during her Mother's absence, the girl 
crept out of the calabash, and put the hut in good 
order, as she had been used to do in former days, and 
said to the Hare, "When mother conies back and 
asks, e Who has done these things ? 9 you must say, e I, 
the Hare, did them.' " After she had done all, she 
hid herself on the stage.* 

When the Mother (of the kraal) came home, she 
said, " Hare, who has done these things ? They look 
just as they used when my daughter did them." The 
Hare said, "I did the things." But the Mother 
would not believe it, and looked at the calabash . 
Seeing it was empty, she searched the stage and found 
her daughter. Then she embraced and kissed her, 
and from that day the girl stayed with her mother, 
and did everything as she was wont in former times ; 
but she now remained unmarried. 

* The stage is that apparatus in the background of the 
hut (built of mats) opposite the door, upon which the 
Hottentots hang their bamboos, bags of skins, and other 
things, and under which the women generally keep their 
mats. 



57 



25. A WOMAN TRANSFORMED INTO A LION. 
[A Tale.] 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's "Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," vol. ii. pp. 197, 198.) 

ONCE upon a time a certain Hottentot was travelling 
in company with a Bushwoman, carrying a child on 
her back. They had proceeded some distance on their 
journey, when a troop of wild horses appeared, and the 
Man said to the Woman, " I am hungry ; and as I 
know you can turn yourself into a Lion, do so now, 
and catch us a wild horse, that we may eat." 

•The Woman answered, " Tou will be afraid." 

" No, no," said the Man ; " I am afraid of dying of 
hunger, but not of you." 

Whilst he was yet speaking, hair began to appear 
at the back of the Woman's neck ; her nails gradually 
assumed the appearance of claws, and her features 
altered. She sat down the child. 

The Man, alarmed at the change, climbed a tree 
close by. The Woman glared at him fearfully, and 
going to one side, she threw off her skin petticoat, when 



58 



LION FABLES. 



a perfect Lion rushed into the plain. It bounded and 
crept among the bushes towards the wild horses, and 
springing on one of them, it fell, and the Lion lapped 
its blood. The Lion then came back to where the 
child was crying, and the man called from the tree, 
" Enough, enough ! don't hurt me. Put off your lion's 
shape, I'll never ask to see this again." 

The Lion looked at him and growled. " I'll remain 
here till I die," said the Man, " if you don't become 
a woman again." The mane and tail then began to 
disappear, the Lion went towards the bush where the 
skin petticoat lay ; it was slipped on, and the woman, 
in her proper shape, took up the child. The Man 
descended and partook of the horse's flesh, but never 
again asked the Woman to catch game for him. 



59 



26. THE LION AND THE BUSHMAN. 
[A Tale.] 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's "Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," yol. ii. p. 51.) 

A BlJSHMAN was, on one occasion, following a troop 
of zebras, and had just succeeded in wounding one 
with, his arrows, when a Lion sprang out from a 
thicket opposite, and showed every inclination to dis- 
pute the prize with him. The Bushman being near 
a convenient tree, threw down his amis, and climbed 
for safety to an upper branch. The Lion, allowing 
the wounded zebra to pass on, now turned his whole 
attention towards the Bushman, and walking round 
and round the tree, he ever and anon growled and 
looked up at him. At length the Lion lay down at 
the foot of the tree, and kept watch all night. To- 
wards morning sleep overcame the hitherto wakeful 
Bushman, and he dreamt that he had fallen into the 
Lion's mouth. Starting from the effects of his dream, 
he lost his hold, and, falling from the branch, he 



60 



LION FABLES, 



alighted heavily on the Lion ; on which the monster, 
thus unexpectedly saluted, ran off with a loud roar, 
and the Bushman, also taking to his heels in a dif- 
ferent direction, escaped in safety. 



V. 

VARIOUS FABLES. 



THE ELEPHANT. 

Thou tall acacia full of branches, 

Thou ebony tree with leaves spread round about. 



27. HOW A 'NAM. A WOMAN OUTWITTED 
THE ELEPHANTS. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 1, 3.) 

AN Elephant, it is said, was married to a Nama Hot- 
tentot woman, whose two brothers came to her secretly, 
because they were afraid of her husband. Then she 
went out as if to fetch wood, and putting them within 
the wood, she laid them on the stage.* Then she said, 
" Since I married into this kraal, has a wether been 
slaughtered also for me?" And her blind mother- 



* Vide Note to Fable 24 p. 56. 



62 



VARIOUS FABLES. 



in-law answered, " TTmph ! things are said by the 
wife of my eldest son, which she never said before/' 

Thereupon the Elephant, who had been in the field, 
arrived, and smelling something, rubbed against the 
house. "Ha/ 5 said his wife, " what I should not have 
done formerly, I do now. On what day did you 
slaughter a wether for me?" Then the mother-in- 
law said to him : "As she says things which she did 
not say (before), do it now." 

In this manner a wether was slaughtered (for her), 
which she roasted whole, and then, in the same night 
(after supper), asked her mother-in-law the following 
questions: — "How do you breathe when you sleep 
the sleep of life ? (light sleep, half-conscious.) And 
how when you sleep the sleep of death ?" (deep sleep.) 

Then the mother-in-law said, " Umph, an evening 
full of conversation ! When we sleep the sleep of 
death, we breathe thus : c sui sui ! 9 and when we sleep 
the sleep of life we breathe thus : ' Xou lawaba I Xou 
Idwaba!'"* 

Thus the wife made everything right whilst they 
fell asleep. Then she listened to their snoring, and 

# X is the German cli, and / the cerebral click of the 
Hottentot language, which is " sounded by sending up the 
tip of the tongue against the roof of the palate, and with- 
drawing it forcibly and suddenly." — Tindall. 



THE NAM A WOMAN AND THE ELEPHANTS. 63 



when they slept thus, siii sui, she rose and said to her 
two brothers, " The sleep of death is over them, let 
us make ready." They rose and went out, and she 
broke up the hut* (to carry away all that she could), 
and took the necessary things, and said, " That thing 
which makes any noise wills my death." So they 
kept altogether quiet. 

When her two brothers had packed up, she went 
with them between the cattle, but she left at home 
one cow,- one ewe, and one goat, and directed them, 
saying to the cow, " You must not low as if you were 
by yourself alone, if you do not wish for my death ;" 
and she taught the ewe and the goat the same. 

Then they departed with all the other cattle, and 
those who were left behind lowed during the night as 
if they were many, and as they lowed as if they were 
still all there, the Elephant thought, " They are all 
there." But when he rose in the morning, he saw 
that his wife and all the cattle were gone. Taking 
his stick into his hands, he said to his mother, " If I 
fall the earth will tremble." With these words he 
followed them. When they saw him approaching, 
they ran fast to the side, against a piece of rock (at a 

# Hottentot huts being merely made of skins stretched 
over a frame, are carried about by the people in their 
wanderings. 



64 



VARIOUS FABLES. 



narrow spot), and slie said, " We are people, behind 
wliom a large (travelling) party conies. Stone of my 
ancestors ! divide thyself for us." Then the rock 
divided itself, and when they had passed through it, 
it closed again (behind them). 

Then came the Elephant, and said to the rock, 
" Stone of my ancestors ! divide thyself also for me." 
The rock divided itself again, but when he had 
entered, it closed upon him. Thus died the Elephant, 
and the earth trembled. The mother at her hut said 
then, " As my eldest son said, it has happened. The 
earth shakes." 



65 



28. A BAD SISTER. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 15, 16.) 

COPPER and Weather, it is said, were man and wife, 
and begat a daughter, who married amongst other 
people. 

Her three brothers came to yisit her ; and she did 
not know them (as such), though the people said, "Do 
not you see they are your brothers ?" She deter- 
mined to kill them at night. They had, however, a 
Guinea-fowl to watch them. 

When the Copper- Weather relative crept near, in 
order to kill the men, the Guinea-fowl made a noise 
to put them on their guard. They were thus warned 
of the danger ; but afterwards they fell asleep again. 
Then she stole again upon them. The Guinea-fowl 
made a noise, but broke the rope by which it had 
been fastened, and ran home. She then killed her 
brothers. When the Guinea-fowl came near home 
it wept : — 



66 



VARIOUS FAB LBS. 



" The Copper- Weather relative has killed her 
brothers ! 
Alas ! she has killed her brothers !" 

The wife heard it, and said to her husband — 

" Do not yon hear what the bird weeps for ? 
Yon who sit here upon the ground working 
bamboos." 

The man said, " Come and turn yourself into a 
mighty thunderstorm, and I will be a strong wind." 

So they transformed themselves accordingly, and 
when they came near to the kraal (where their sons 
had been killed), they combined and became a fire, 
and as a fiery rain they burnt the kraal and all its 
inhabitants. 



VI. 

SUN AND MOON FABLES. 



29. WHY HAS THE JACKAL A LONG 
BLACK STRIPE ON HIS BACK? 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 16.) 

THE Sun, it is said, was one day on earth., and the 
men who were travelling saw him sitting by the way- 
side, but passed him without notice. The Jackal, 
however, who came after them, and saw him also 
sitting, went to him and said, " Such a fine little 
child is left behind by the men." He then took the 
Sun up, and put it into his awa-skin (on his back). 
When it burnt him, he said, " Get down," and shook 
himself ; but the Sun stuck fast to his back, and burnt 
the Jackal's back black from that day. 



f 2 



68 



30. THE HORSE CURSED BY THE SEN. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, of this little Nama- 
qualand Fable, is in Sir Gr. Grey's Library, Gr. Kronlein's 
Manuscript, p. 53.) 

IT is said that once the Sun was on earth, and caught 
the Horse to ride it. But it was unable to bear his 
weight, and therefore the Ox took the place of the 
Horse, and carried the Sun on its back. Since that 
time the Horse is cursed in these words, because it 
could not carry the Sun's weight: — 

" From to-day thou shalt have a (certain) time of 
dying. 

This is thy curse, that thou hast a (certain) time of 
dying. 

And day and night shalt thou eat, 
But the desire of thy heart shall not be at rest, 
Though thou grazest till morning and again until 
sunset. 

Behold, this is the judgment which I pass upon thee/' 
said the Sun. 

Since that day the Horse's (certain) time of dying 
commenced. 



69 



31. THE ORIGIN OF DEATH. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 33, 34.) 

THE Moon, it is said, sent once an Insect to Men, 
saying, " Go thou to Men, and tell them, ' As I die, 
and dying live, so ye shall also die, and dying live/ " 
The Insect started with the message, but whilst on 
his way was overtaken by the Hare, who asked: 
" On what errand art thou bound ?" The Insect 
answered : "I am sent by the Moon to Men, to 
tell them that as she dies, and dying lives, they 
also shall die, and dying live." The Hare said, 
" As thou art an awkward runner, let me go " (to 
take the message). With these words he ran off, 
and when he reached Men, he said, " I am sent by 
the Moon to tell you, ' As I die, and dying perish, in 
the same manner ye shall also die and come wholly 
to an end.' " Then the Hare returned to the Moon, 
and told her what he had said to Men. The Moon 
reproached him angrily, saying, "Darest thou tell 



70 



SUN AND MOON FABLES. 



the people a tiling which. I have not said ?" "With 
these words she took up a piece of wood, and struck 
him on the nose. Since that day the Hare's nose is 
slit. 



32. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE SAME 
FABLE. 



(From H. C. Knudsen's " Grross-Namaqualand," 12mo., Barmen, 
1848, pp. 27, 28.) 

THE Moon dies, and rises to life again. The Moon 
said to the Hare, " Gro thou to Men, and tell them, 
' Like as I die and rise to life again, so you also shall 
die and rise to life again/ " The Hare went to the 
Men, and said, " Like as I die and do not rise to life 
again, so you shall also die, and not rise to life again.' 
When he returned, the Moon asked him, " What 
hast thou said ?" " I have told them, ' Like as I die 
and do not rise to life again, so you shall also die and 
not rise to life again.' " " What," said the Moon, 
" hast thou said that?" And she took a stick and 
beat the Hare on his mouth, which was slit by the 
blow. The Hare fled, and is still fleeing."* 

* "We are now angry with the Hare," say the old 
Kamaqua, ""because he brought such a had message, and 
therefore we dislike to eat his flesh." — Knudsen. 



72 



33. A THIRD VERSION OF THE SAME 
FABLE. 

(From an original Manuscript in English, by Mr. John Priestley, 
in Sir Gr. Grey's Library.) 

THE Moon, on one occasion, sent tlie Hare to the earth 
to inform Men that as she (the Moon) died away and 
rose again, so mankind should die and rise again. 
Instead, however, of delivering this message as given, 
the Hare, either out of forgetfulness or malice, told 
mankind that as the Moon rose and died away, so 
Man should die and rise no more. The Hare, having 
returned to the Moon, was questioned as to the 
message delivered, and the Moon, having heard the 
true state of the case, became so enraged with him 
that she took up a hatchet to split his head ; falling 
short, however, of that, the hatchet fell upon the 
upper lip of the Hare, and cut it severely. Hence it 
is that we see the " Hare-lip." The Hare, being duly 
incensed at having received such treatment, raised his 
claws, and scratched the Moon's face ; and the dark 
parts which we now see on the surface of the Moon 
are the scars which she received on that occasion. 



73 



34. A FOURTH VERSION OF THE SAME 
FABLE. 

(From Sir James E. Alexander's " Expedition of Discovery into 
the Interior of Africa," vol. i. p. 169.) 

THE Moon, they say, wished to send a message to 
Men, and the Hare said that he would take it. " Run, 
then/' said the Moon, " and tell Men that as I die 
and am renewed, so shall they also be renewed." 
But the Hare deceived Men, and said, " As I die and 
perish, so shall you also."* 

* Old Namaquas will not therefore touch Hare's flesh; 
hut the young men may partake of it ; that is, before the 
ceremony of making them men is performed, which merely 
consists in slaughtering and eating an ox or a couple of 
sheep. — Alexander. 



74 



35. A ZULU VERSION OF THE LEGEND 
OF THE "ORIGIN OF DEATH." 

(From Manuscript, "Zulu Legends," No. 214 of Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, vol. i. part i. p. 107.) 

GOD ( Unhnlunkuln) arose from beneath (the seat of the 
spiritual world, according to the Zulu idea), and created 
in the beginning* men, animals, and all things. He 
then sent for the Chameleon, and said, " Go, Chame- 
leon, and tell Men that they shall not die." The 
Chameleon went, but it walked slowly, and loitered 
on the way, eating of a shrub called Bukwebezane. 

When it had been away some time, God sent the 
Salamander after it, ordering him to make haste and 
tell Men that they should die. The Salamander went 
on his way with this message, outran the Chameleon, 
and, arriving first where the Men were, told them that 
they must die. g 

# Olilangeni. Vide Colenso's " Zulu-English Dictionary," 
p. 179. 



VII. 

HEITSI EIBIP 

AND OTHER LEGENDS. 



36. HEITSI EIBIP. 

(From a Grerman original Manuscript in Sir Gr. Grey's Library, 
H. C. Knudsen's " Notes on the Hottentots," p. 7.) 

HEITSI EIBIP, or Kabip, was a great and celebrated 
sorcerer among the Namaqua. He could tell secret 
things, and prophesy what was to happen afterwards. 

Once he was travelling with a great number of 
people, and an enemy pursued them. On arriving 
at some water he said, "My grandfather's father, 
open thyself that I may pass through, and close thy- 
self afterwards." So it took place as he had said, and 
they went safely through. Then their enemies tried 
to pass through the opening also, but when they were 
in the midst of it, it closed again upon them, and they 
perished.* 

# Knudsen, who heard this legend from the Hottentot 
Petras Friedrik, was afterwards informed that Heitsi Eibip 



76 HEITSI EIBIP AND OTHER LEGENDS. 



Heitsi Kabip died several times, and came to life 
again. When the Hottentots pass one of his graves 
they throw a stone on it for good luck.* 

Heitsi Eibip could take many different forms. 
Sometimes he appeared handsome, very handsome, 
or his hair grew long down to his shoulders ; at other 
times it was again short. 

was not the person meant in this tale. It looks very much 
like the end of our 27th Fable, of the Woman who outwitted 
the Elephants. 

# Sir James E. Alexander, in his " Expedition of Discovery 
into the Interior of Africa," vol. i. p. 166, speaking of the 
people at Warm Bath, or Msbett Bath, says : — " These 
Namaquas thought that they came from the East. In the 
country there is occasionally found (besides the common 
graves covered with a heap of stones) large heaps of stones, 
on which had been thrown a few bushes ; and if the Nama- 
quas are asked what these are, they say that Heije JSibib, 
their Great Father, is below the heap ; they do not know 
what he is like, or what he does ; they only imagine that he 
also came from the East, and had plenty of sheep and goats ; 
and when they add a stone or branch to the heap, they 
mutter, 6 Give us plenty of cattle.' 39 



77 



37. THE VICTORY OF HEITSI EIBIP. 

(From a German original Manuscript in Sir Gh Grrey's Library, 
H. C. Knudsen's " Notes on the Hottentots," p. 7.) 

AT first they were two. One had made a large hole 
in the ground, and sat by it, and told passers-by to 
throw a stone at his forehead. The stone, however, 
rebounded and killed the person who had thrown it, 
so that he fell into the hole. At last Heitsi Eibip 
was told that in this manner many people died. So 
he arose and went to the man, who challenged Heitsi 
Eibip to throw (a stone) at him. The latter, however, 
declined, for he was too prudent ; but he drew the 
man's attention to something on one side, and while 
he turned round to look at it, Heitsi Eibip hit him 
behind the ear, so that he died and fell into his own 
hole. After that there was peace, and people lived 
happily.* 

# Sir James Alexander, in his " Expedition of Discovery 
into the Interior of Africa," vol. ii. p. 250, states : — " On 
the 3rd of August the waggon went on to Aneip, or "Wet 
Foot, and I went out of the way with J an Buys, and two or 
three men, to see a hole, which was supposed to be inhabited 
by Heije Eibib, and was the wonder of the country." 



78 



38. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE SAME 
LEGEND. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 36.) 

ALL men who came near to that hole were, it is said, 
pushed down into it by the ±Ga $gorip* (the pusher 
into the hole), as he knew well where it lay. Whilst 
he was thus employed, there came the Heitsi Eihip, 
called also Heigeip, and saw how the ±G?a ^gorip 
treated the people. 

Then these two began to hunt each other round the 
hole, saying — 

" Push the Heigeip down !" 
" Push the ±Gd ±gorip down !" 
"Push the Heigeip down !" 
" Push the ±Ga ±gorip down !" 

With these words they hunted each other round 
for some time ; but at last the Heigeip was pushed 

* The ± is the palatal click, described in Note to Fable 
24 p. 55 ; and indicates the nasal pronunciation of a syllable. 



THE VICTORY OF HEITSI JEIBIP. 79 

down. Then he said to the hole, " Support me a 
little," and it did. Thus, being supported, he came 
out; and they hunted each other again with the same 
words : — 

" Push the Heigeip down !" 

" Push the ±Ga $gorip down I" 

A second time the Heigeip was pushed down, and 
he spoke the same words : " Support me a little," and 
thus got out again. 

Once more these two hunted after each bther, till 
at last the =j= G& ±gorip was pushed down, and he came 
not up again. Since that day men breathed freely 
and had rest from their enemy, because he was van- 
quished. 



80 



39. THE RAISIN-EATER. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gk G-rey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, pp. 34, 35.) 

IT is said that when Heitsi Eibipwas travelling about 
with his family, they came to a valley in which the 
raisin-tree was ripe, and he was there attacked by a 
severe illness. Then his young (second) wife said, 
" This brave one is taken ill on account of these 
raisins ; death is here at the place." The old man 
(Heitsi Eibip), however, told his son / Urisip* (the 
whitish one), " I shall not live, I feel it ; thou must, 
therefore, cover me when I am dead with soft stones." 
And he spoke further, " This is the thing which I 
order you to do : — 6 Of the raisin-trees of this valley 
ye shall not eat. For if ye eat of them I shall infect 
you, and ye will surely die in a similar way/ " 

His young wife said, " He is taken ill on account 
of the raisins of this valley. Let us bury him quickly, 
and let us go." 

* The / is the cerebral click described in Note to Fable 
27, p. 62. 



TEE MAISIN-EA TEB . 



81 



So lie died there, and was coyered flatly with soft 
stones according as lie had commanded. Then they 
went away from him. 

When they had moved to another place, and were 
unpacking there, they heard always from the side 
whence they came a noise as of people eating raisins 
and singing. In this manner the eating and singing 
ran : — 

" I, father of lUrisip, 
Father of this unclean one, 
I, who had to eat these raisins, and died, 
And dying live/' 

The young wife perceived that the noise came from 
the side where the old man's grave was, and said, 
" / Urisip ! Go and look !" Then the son went to the 
old man's grave, where he saw traces which he recog- 
nised to he his father's .footmarks, and returned 
home. Then the young wife said, " It is he alone ; 
therefore act thus : — 

" Do so to the man who ate raisins on the windward 
side, 

Take care of the wind that' thou deepest. upon him 

from the leeward ; 
Then intercept him on his way to the grave, 

G 



82 HEITSI EIJBIP AND OTHER LEGENDS. 

And when thou hast caught him, do not let him 
go." 

He did accordingly, and they came between the 
grave andHeitsi Eibip who, when he saw this, jumped 
down from the raisin-trees, and ran quickly, but was 
caught at the grave. Then he said : 

" Let me go ! For I am a man who has been dead 
that I may not infect you !" But the young wife 
said, " Keep hold of the rogue !" So they brought 
him home, and from that day he was fresh and hale. 



83 



40. ORIGIN OF THE DIFFERENCE IN 
MODES OF LIFE BETWEEN HOTTEN- 
TOTS AND BUSHMEN. 

(From a G-erman original Manuscript in Sir Gr. Grrey's Library, 
H. C. Knudsen's " Notes on the Hottentots," pp. 7, 8.) 

IN the beginning there were two. One was blind, 
the other was always hunting. This hunter found at 
last a hole in the earth, from which game proceeded, 
'and killed the young. The blind man, feeling and 
smelling them, said, " They are not game, but cattle." 

The blind man afterwards recovered his sight, and 
going with the hunter to this hole, saw that they were 
cows with their calves. He then quickly built a 
kraal (fence made of thorns) round them, and 
anointed himself, just as Hottentots (in their native 
state) are still wont to do. 

When the other, who now with great trouble had 
to seek his game, came and saw this, he wanted to 
anoint himself also. " Look here!" said the other, 
" you must throw the ointment into the fire, and after- 
wards use it." He followed this advice, and the flames 

g 2 



84 HEITSI EIBIP AND OTHEM LEGENDS. 

flaring up into his face, burnt him most miserably ; 
so that he was glad to make his escape. The other, 
however, called to him: "Here, take the kirri (a 
knobstick), and run to the hills, to hunt there for 
honey. " 

Hence sprung the race of Bushmen. 



VIII. 

HOUSEHOLD TALES. 



41. THE LITTLE WISE WOMAN. 

(The original, in the Hottentot language, is in Sir Gr. Grey's 
Library, Gr. Kronlein's Manuscript, p. 53.) 

A GrXRL, it is said, went to seek for onions. As she 
arrived at the place where they grew, she met with 
some men, one of whom was blind (i.e., half-blind, 
having only one eye). As she dug (for the onions) 
the men helped her, digging also. When her sack 
was full, they said to her, " Go, tell the other girls, 
that many of you may come." So she went home and 
told her companions, and early the next morning they 
started. But a little girl followed them. The other 
girls said, "Let the little girl go back/' But her elder 
sister protested against this, saying, " She runs by 
herself, you need not put her into your awa-skin." 

So they went all together, and having reached the 
onion- ground, began to dig. Now the little girl saw 



86 



HOUSEHOLD TALES. 



traces of feet, and said to the one who had guided 
them thither, " Wonderful! whence so many traces ? 
Were you not alone here ?" The other replied, " I 
walked about and looked out ; therefore they must of 
course be many." The child, however, did not be- 
lieve that if the other girl had been alone the traces 
could be many, and felt uneasy ; for she was a wise 
little woman. From time to time she rose (from her 
work) and peeped about, and once, while doing this, 
found by chance an ant-eater's hole. Still further 
spying about, she perceived some men, but they did 
not see her. She then returned and continued dig- 
ging with the other girls, without, however, saying 
anything. But in the midst of their work she always 
rose and looked about her. So the others asked her, 
"Why do you always spy about you, and leave off 
digging? What a girl!" But she continued her 
work in silence. When she rose from it again, she 
saw the men approaching. As they drew near the One- 
eyed blew through a reed pipe the following air : — 

" To-day there shall blood flow, blood flow, blood 
flow !" 

The little girl understood what was blown on the 
reed. She said to the elder ones, whilst they were 
dancing, " Do you also understand the tune that is 
blown on the reed ?" But they only said, " What a 



THE LITTLE WISE WOMAN. 



87 



child slie is !" So she mixed in the dance with the 
others ; but managed while so doing to tie her sister's 
caross-cloak to her own, and in this manner they 
danced on, till it became very noisy, and then they 
found an opportunity to slip away. 

On their way out the little sister asked, " Do you 
understand the reed— I mean what is blown on it P" 
She answered, "I do not understand it." Then the 
little girl explained to her that the tune on the reed 
said, " To-day blood shall flow !" When they walked 
along, the little girl let her elder sister go first, and 
herself followed, walking backwards, and carefully 
stepping in her sister's traces, so that they thus 
left only one set of footmarks, and these going in a 
contrary direction. In this manner they arrived at 
the ant-eater's hole. 

But the men killed all those girls who had remained 
dancing with them. When the eldest of those who 
had escaped heard their wailing, she said, " Alas, my 
sisters!" But the younger one answered her, " Do 
you think you would have lived if you had remained 
there ?" 

Now " One-eye " was the first to miss the sisters, and 
said to the other men, " Where may the two hand- 
some girls be who danced with me ?" The others 
replied, " He lies. He has seen with his eye (satin- 



88 



MOUSUMOLJ) TALUS, 



cally meaning tie liad seen wrongly) . But " One-eye" 
insisted that " two girls were truly missing." Then 
they went to find their spoor, but the traces had been 
rendered indistinct enough to puzzle them. 

When the men arrived at the ant-eater's hole, they 
could not see that the footmarks went further, so they 
spied into the hole, but saw nothing. Then " One- 
eye " looked also, and he saw the girls, and cried, 
" There they sit." The others now looked again, 
but still saw nothing ; for the girls had covered them- 
selves with cobwebs. 

One of the men then took an assegai, and piercing 
through the upper part of the hole, hit the heel of 
the larger girl. But the little wise woman took 
hold of the assegai, and wiped off the blood. The 
elder sister was about to cry, but the little one warned 
her not. 

When "One-eye " spied again, the little girl made 
big eyes at him. He said, " There she sits." The 
others looked too, but as they could see nothing they 
said (satirically), "He has only seen with his eye." 

At last the men got thirsty, and said to " One-eye," 
" Stay you here, and let us go to drink, and when we 
have returned you may go also." 

When " One-eye" was left alone there, the little 
girl said (conjuring him) : 



THE LITTLE WISE WOMAN. 89 



" You dirty son of your father, 
Are you there ? Are you alone not thirsty ? 
Oh, you dirty child of your father ! 
Dirty child of your father !" 
"I am indeed thirsty/' said "One-eye," and went 
away. 

Then the two girls came out of the hole, and the 
younger one took her elder sister on her back, and 
walked on. As they were going over the bare, tree- 
less plain, the men saw them, and said, " There they 
are, far off," and ran after them. 

"When they came near, the two girls turned them- 
selves into thorn trees, called " Wait-a-bit," and the 
beads which they wore became gum on the trees. 
The men then ate of the gum and fell asleep. Whilst 
they slept, the girls smeared gum over the men's eyes 
and went away, leaving them lying in the sun. 

The girls were already near their kraal, when 
" One- eye " awoke, and said : 
" Oh, the disgrace ! fie on thee ! 
Our eyes are smeared over ; fie on thee, my brother!" 

Then they removed the gum from their eyes, and 
hunted after the girls ; but the latter reached home 
in safety, and told their parents what had happened. 

Then all lamented greatly, but they remained quietly 
at home, and did not search for the other girls. 



90 



42. THE UNREASONABLE CHILD TO WHOM 
THE DOG- GAVE ITS DESERTS; 

OR, A RECEIPT FOR PUTTING ANY ONE TO SLEEP. 

(The original, in the o Tyi-herero or Damara language, is in Sir Gr. 
Grey's Library, J. Rath's Manuscript, pp. 39, 43.) 

THERE was a little girl who had an eingi (pro- 
nounced a-inghi, some kind of fruit). She said to her 
Mother, " Mother, why is it that you do not say, 6 My 
first-born, give me the eingi ? 9 Do I refuse it ?" 

" Her Mother said, " My first-born, give me the 
eingi." She gave it to her and went away, and her 
Mother ate the eingi. 

When the child came back, she said, " Mother, give 
me my eingi ?" but her Mother answered, " I have 
eaten the eingi /" 

The child said, " Mother, how is it that you have 
eaten my eingi, which I plucked from our tree ?" 
The Mother then (to appease her) gave her a needle. 

The little girl went away and found her Father sew- 
ing thongs with thorns ; so she said, " Father, how 
is it that you sew with thorns ? Why do not you say, 



THE CHILD WHO HAD ITS DESERTS. 



91 



c My first-born, give me your needle ?' Do I refuse ?" 
So her Father said, " My first-born, give me your 
needle." She gave it to him and went away for a 
while. Her Father commenced sewing, but the needle 
broke ; when, therefore, the child came back and said, 
" Father, give me my needle," he answered, " The 
needle is broken but she complained about it, say- 
ing, " Father, how is it that you break my needle, 
which I got from Mother, who ate my e'ingi, which I 
had plucked from our tree ?" Her Father then gaye 
her an axe. 

Going farther on she met the lads who were in 
charge of the cattle. They were busy taking out 
honey, and in order to get at it they were obliged to 
cut down the trees with stones. She addressed them : 
" Our sons, how is it that you use stones in order 
to get at the honey ? Why do not you say, ' Our 
first-born, give us the axe ? 9 Do I refuse, or what do 
I ?" They said, " Our first-born, give us the axe." 
So she gave it them, and went away for some time. 
The axe broke entirely. When she came back she 
asked, " Where is the axe ? Please give it me." They 
answered, " The axe is broken." She then said, 
"How is it that you break my axe, which I had re- 
ceived from Father who had broken my needle, which 
I got from Mother who had eaten my eingi, which I 



92 



HOUSEHOLD TALUS. 



had plucked from our tree?" But they gaye her 
some honey (to comfort her). 

She went her way again, and met a little old 
woman, eating insects, to whom she said, " Little old 
woman, how is it that you eat insects ? Why 
don't you say, ' My first-born, give me honey ?' Do 
I refuse or not ?" Then the little old woman asked, 
"My first-born, give me honey." She gave it her 
and went away ; but presently returning, said, 
" Little old woman, let me have my honey !" Now 
the old woman had managed to eat it all during her 
absence, so she answered, " Oh ! I have eaten the 
honey !" So the child complained, saying, "How is 
it that you eat my honey, which I received from the 
lads of our cattle, from our children who had broken 
my axe, which had been given me by Father who 
had broken my needle, which was a present from my 
Mother who had eaten up my eingi, that I had plucked 
from our tree ?" 

The little old woman gave her food, and she went 
away. This time she came to the pheasants, who 
scratched the ground ; and she said, " Pheasants ! 
how is it that you scratch the ground ? "Why do not 
you say, c First-born, give us food ?' Do I refuse, or 
what do I ?" They said, " First-born, give." So 
she gave to them, and went away. When she came 



THE CHILI) WHO HAD ITS DESERTS. 



93 



back and demanded her food again, they said, " We 
have eaten the food." She asked, "How is it that 
you eat my food, which I had received from a little 
old woman who had eaten up my honey, that I had 
got from the lads of our cattle who had broken my 
axe, which had been given me by my Father who 
had broken my needle, which was a present from my 
Mother who had eaten my eingi, which I had plucked 
from our tree ?" The pheasants, flying up, pulled out 
each one a feather and threw them down to the little 
girl. 

She then, walking along, met the children who 
watched the sheep. They were plucking out hairs 
from the sheep-skins. So she asked them, " How is 
it that you pull at these skins ? Why do not you 
say, ' First-born, give us the feathers?' Do I refuse, 
or what do I ?" They said, " First-born, give us the 
feathers." She gave them and went away, but all 
the feathers broke. When she returned and said, 
" Give me my feathers," they answered, " The 
feathers are broken." Then she complained, " Do 
you break my feathers which I received from the 
pheasants who had eaten my food, which had been 
given me by a little old woman ?" They gave her 
some milk. 

She went again on her way, and found their own 



94 



HOUSEHOLD TALES. 



handsome dog gnawing bones. She said, " Our dog, 
how is it that you gnaw these bones ?" The dog 
answered, " Give me milk." She gave it him, and 
he drank it all. Then she said to the dog, "Give 
me back my milk." He said, " I drank it." She 
then repeated the same words which she had spoken 
so often before ; but the dog ran away, and when she 
pursued him, he scampered up a tree. She climbed 
up after him, but the dog jumped down again on the 
other side. She wanted to do the same, but could 
not. Then she said, " Our dog, please help me 
down." He answered, " Why did you pursue me P" 
and ran away leaving her up the tree. 

" That is enough," say the Damara. 



LINGUISTIC PUBLICATIONS 

OF 

TRUBNER & Co., 

60, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON, E.C. 



MAORI MEMENTOS : 

Being a Series of Addresses presented by the Native People 
to His Excellency Sir George Grey, K.C.B., F.R.S. 
With Introductory Remarks and Explanatory Notes ; to 
which is added a small Collection of Laments, &c. 

By Oh. OLIVER B. DAYIS. 
8vo., pp. iv. and 228. Price 12s., cloth. 



HANDBOOK OF AFRICAN, AUSTRALIAN, 

AND POLYNESIAN PHILOLOGY, 

As represented in the Library of His Excellency Sir Geo. 
Grey, K.O.B., Her Majesty's High Commissioner of the 
Cape Colony. Classed, Annotated, and Edited by 

Sir GEORGE GREY and Dr. H. I. BLEEK. 

Vol. I. Part 1.— South Africa, 8vo., pp. 186. 7s. 6d. 

Vol. I. Part 2.— Africa (North of the Tropic of Capricorn), 8vo., pp. 70. 2s. 

Vol, I. Part 3. — Madagascar, 8vo., pp. 24. Is. 

Vol. II. Part 1. — Australia, 8vo., pp. iv. and 44. Is. 6d. 

Vol. II. Part 2. — Papuan Languages of the Loyalty Islands and New Heb- 
rides, comprising those of the Islands of Nengone, Lifu, 
Aneitum, Tana, and others, 8vo., pp. 12. 6d. 

Vol. II. Part 3.— Fiji Islands and Rotuma (with Supplement to Part II., 
Papuan Languages, and Part I., Australia), 8vo., pp. 
34. Is. 

Vol. II. Part 4. — New Zealand, the Chatham Islands, and Auckland Islands, 

8vo., pp. 76. 3s. 6d. 
Vol. II. F art 4< (continuation).— Polynesia and Borneo, 8vo., pp. 77— 154. 3s. 6d. 
Vol. III. Part 1. Manuscripts and Incunables, 8vo., pp. viii. and 24. 2s. 



LINGUISTIC PUBLICATIONS OF TRUBNER & CO. 



A COMPARATIVE GRAMMAR OF SOUTH 
AFRICAN LANGUAGES. 
By Dr. W. H. I, BLEEK. 
Will be completed in Four Parts. Part L, pp. 104, sewed. 5s. 

THE ISSZULU : A GRAMMAR OF THE 

ZULU LANGUAGE; 

Accompanied with a Historical Introduction, also with an 
Appendix. 

By Rey. LEWIS GROUT. 

8vo., pp. liii. and 432, cloth. 21s. 



KAFSR ESSAYS, 

And other Pieces; with an English Translation. Edited loj 
The Right Rey. the Bishop oe GRAHAMSTOVfN. 
32mo., pp. 84, sewed. 2s. 6d. 

A GRAMMAR AND VOCABULARY OF THE 
NAMAQUA-HOTTENTOT LANGUAGE. 
By HENRY TDSDALL, Wesleyan Missionary. 
8vo., pp. 124, sewed. 6s. 

FIRST LESSONS IN THE MAORI LANGUAGE, 
With a Short Vocabulary. 
By W. L. WILLIAMS, B.A. 
Square 8vo., pp. 80, cloth. London, 1862. 3s. 6<L 



