About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/wanderingsinwest01burt/page/n7/mode/2up

--------------------------------------

WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA 



FROM 



LIVERPOOL TO FEKNANDO PO. 



By A F.R.G.S. 



With map and Illustration. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. I. 



LONDON : 
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND. 

1863. 

[The Right of Translation is reserved.] 



LONDON : 
BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS. 



vr 

97/ 

¦ 



TO 



THE TRUE FRIENDS OF AFRICA 



—NOT TO THE " PHILANTHROPIST " OR TO EXETER HALL- 



Z\)ist Images arc Enscribcfl, 



A HUMBLE MEMBER OF THEIR FRATERNITY. 



PREFACE. 



A NO less authority than Baron von Humboldt has 
declared, in his "Personal Narrative/'* that, "from 
every traveller beginning the account of his adven- 
tures by a description of Madeira and Tenerife, there 
remains now scarce anything untold respecting their 
topography." And after this dictum the great philo- 
sopher proceeds to evidence in propria persona, the 
fact that no account can be so correct but that it 
may be made exacter still. 

I was induced to put my notes into the form of 
pages by the consideration that however well trodden 
be the path of which they treat, there is no single 
volume that can be taken with him by the outward- 
bound. Each separate station of the "African Steam 
Ship Company" has a small literature of its own : 
the line however lacks the idea of a handbook. And 
as for correctness the " West African Pilot " himself 
requires revision. 

In writing these pages, then, it has been my object 
* Bohn'sed., Vol. I., p. 48. 



Vlll PREFACE. 

to lay down what a tolerably active voyager can see 
and do during the few hours allowed to him by the 
halts of the mail packet. 

To relieve the dryness of details I have not hesi- 
tated to indulge in such reflections as the subject 
suggested, and to sketch the types, not the indi- 
vidualities, of fellow-travellers. 

The reader will observe that I left England with 
a determination to investigate the subject of West 
African mortality. My conviction now is, that the 
land might be rendered not more unhealthy than 
the East or the West Indies, whereas it is at present 
deadly, a Golgotha, a Jehannum. The causes of its 
fearful mortality — principally the bad positions of 
the settlements — will be found duly indicated. 

In taking leave of the gentle or ungentle reader, 
I may be allowed to remark, that amidst an abund- 
ance of greater there is doubtless a crowd of minor 
blemishes, which those charitably disposed will attri- 
bute to the effects of a " single revise." 

West Africa, 

December, 1862. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 
Outward Bound .... 



PAGE 



CHAPTER II. 
A Day at Madeira 20 

CHAPTER III. 
A Day at Tenerife 72 

CHAPTER IY. 
A Day at St. Mary's, Bathurst 127 

CHAPTER V. 
Three Days at Freetown, Sierra Leone . . .19-3 

CHAPTER VI. 

Six Hours at the Cape of Cocoa Palms . . . 282 



WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 



CHAPTER I. 

OUTWARD BOUND. 



A heart-wrench — and all is over. Unhappily I am 
not one of those independents who can say ce n'est que 
le premier pas qui coute. 

* * * * 

The day (August 24th, 186 — ) was a day to make the 
Englander leave England without a single sigh. A 
north of Europe nor'-wester had set in before noon, a 
funereal pall of rain-mist overhung the heavens of Liver- 
pool with black, white sea-dogs coursed and worried one 
another over Father Mersey's breadth of mud, the 
shrewish gusts tore to pieces the very strongest 
showers — 

If Britannia chills with tears and sighs the hearts of 
her sons home-returning, at any rate, with the same 
tenderness she consoles them under departure. "Who 
ever landed at Southampton in other but the worst 
of weather ? "Who ever left Dover on a fine clear 
morning ? 



2 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

At 12.15 p.m. the crowded little steam-tender con- 
veyed us from the North Landing on board the A. S. S., 
i. e. African Steam Ship, " Blackland," Captn. English 
commanding. Ensued that scene of senseless hurry 
and confusion in which ticket-porters and passengers 
— the former professionally, the latter unprofessionally — 
act principal parts. However, on this occasion, thus 
distinguished from many others, I did not lose either 
box or bag upon the floating pier, nor did my ears 
suffer from that which usually reminded them of the 
Avignon portefaix, as he was in the days of Kambling 
before Eailways. 

My connection with my beloved native land concluded 
with a further demand of 6/. 2s. for baggage. 

At 1.45 p.m., when the thirty-five huge mail bags, 
containing mental pabulum for some score of West- 
African ports, had come on board, when the two brass 
pop-guns had announced by the normal hang-fire and 
horrid ring, that Blue Peter had descended from his 
eminence, and when the last passenger was put in and 
the last stranger had put off, we steamed down the 
Long Reach, past the five miles of dock — the pride of the 
Liver — past New Brighton — not yet It pool sur mer, but 
treeless, barren, horrid, hideous — past the North Port 
and the South Eort, fine gingerbread-work for Mersey's 
mouth against Armstrongs, Whitworths, Blakeleys, 
Dahlgrens, Parrots, and canon rayes — past unpictu- 
resque Waterloo, most like a modern barrack, over a 
bar breaking, to starboard and port, heavily as the 
Grand Bonny's, past a bit of sandland reminding me of 



OUTWARD BOUND. 3 

Araby the Accursed, and — tantalizing contradiction ! — 
forth into the open sea, heading straight for the North 
Pole whilst bound for Tropical Africa. 

Now the artificial stimulus of new places and new 
faces has passed away, the light gear has been selected 
for the cabins, the heavy traps have been sent down 
below; dinner at 4 p.m., and at 7 p.m. tea — with 
desiccated milk — are "done." Then comes the first 
nightfall on board outward-bound, the saddest time 
that the veteran wanderer knows. Saadi, the Persian, 
one of the best of travellers, — he studied books for 
thirty years, did thirty of wanderjahre, and for thirty 
wrote and lived in retirement, — has thus alluded to 
the depressing influences of what I suppose may philo- 
sophically be explained by an absence of Light-stimulus 
or Od-force — 

11 So yearns at eve's soft tide the heart 
Which the wide wolds and waters part 
From all dear scenes to which the soul 
Turns, as the lodestone seeks its pole. " 

"We cut shoTt the day by creeping to our berths, with- 
out even a " nightcap," and we do our best to forget 
ourselves and everything about us. 

* * * # 

But Joy cometh in the Morning. "We the gerontocracy 
rise refreshed enough. Remembering Mad. Ida Pfeiffer's 
saying when shown to her roosting-place — "Birth do 
you call it ? I fear it will be the death of me," — we 
have slept in the main cabin. The juveniles preferred 
the athwart-ship placed paint-perfumed little bunks, 

B 2 



4 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

five-feet by two -feet, with the flimsy cushion of com- 
pressed horse -hair between back and board, causing 
aching bones; and the thin layer of compressed air 
between respiratory organs and deck, engendering night- 
mares, and chancing broken heads. We turn out at 
6 a.m. — and so shall we do for many a long day — we 
" coffee up/' smoke the morning cigarette, and prospect 
the deck. The air is clear, the Tuskar lighthouse 
uprears its tall thin pale form from the no longer 
muddy wave, we peer for "the Smalls," the Saltees 
Islands are the last " Singhavolokan" (vide H. H. 
"Wilson); the " Blackland's " head turns S. W. and by 
W. half W. (see anything from Norie to Eaper) — we 
now feel that we are Africa-bound, and we go down to 
feed. 

" Hurrah, the "bell for breakfast ! 

Hark to the mingled din 
Of knife and fork and hissing chops 

Stewards are bringing in. 
The fiery skipper's pricking fast 

His fork into the dish, 
Despatching quickly his repast 

Of coffee, eggs, and fish. 
In burst the guests, and on they rush 

Around the jolly tar, 
"Who calls on semi-seasick folks 

To prosecute the war." 

And so on all day, concerning which the less said the 
better. 

Mais qv?allais-je faire dans cette gale-re ? 

Records of travel, I am assured, are interesting in 
proportion as the traveller goes forth, not a universal 



OUTWARD BOUND. . 5 

observer, but with a definite pursuit to a small world of 
his own. From the "depths of my self-consciousness" 
I had eliminated an idea, that there is some solid sub- 
stantial reason for the veil of mystery which, like that 
of Isis, still shadows the fair proportions of "\Testern 
Africa. The old story of deleterious climate, when 
statistics prove the " sentimental squadron " to be 
healthier than that of the Mediterranean, was, to me, 
a by no means sufficient explanation. The perpetual 
imputation of " improper indulgences " brought against 
Europeans by negro and negroid supporters of the 
ridiculous theory, "Africa for the Africans" — V Italia 
far a da se — was no reason for overwhelming mortality 
in a land which probably is as well fitted for northern 
constitutions as India is. Perhaps there might be a 
lingering of old tradition : one observes that the public 
estimate of a distant place always dates from the last 
popular book — say Mungo Park's. Possibly a rich 
monopoly, whose deeds are ever best done in darkness. 

Such, then, was my "pursuit." I have long since 
answered these questions to myself, and if I fail to 
satisfy those who do me the honour of reading me, it 
will not — it is said with due humility — be my own 
fault. 

Meanwhile, whilst we cross — in a week — the 1537 
deadly-lively miles that separate L'pool from Madeira, 
I will fatite de mieiix indulge in a few reminiscences of 
steamer travelling, and briefly glance at the history of 
the A. S. S. Company winch carries the West Coast of 
Africa mails. 



6 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

As most people know, steamers — an invention which 
outdates almost all now alive — have not yet learned, at 
least on long-sea voyages, to pay their own way. The 
Cunard, the P. & 0., and the Royal Mail lines — they are 
named in order of merit — still require large subsidies from 
Government. On the other hand, commerce has greatly 
benefited, as the following extract from a Yankee pam- 
phlet may prove : — " The annual increase of British ex- 
ports to China, Egypt, and India (where subsidized mail 
steamers were introduced in 1845), since the establish- 
ment of steam communication to them, is $39,948,615 ; 
and this gain is secured at what cost ? Simply by a mail 
subsidy of but $950,750 per annum, or less than two 
and a half of one per cent, on the annual increase of 
exports/'* 

The A. S. S. Company receives an annual benefit of 
30,000/. under a contract with the Admiralty, and is 
understood to pay, besides bonus, seven per cent, per 
annum.t The reason why this line has hitherto not 
done more — for something it has done — during the last 
ten years, to develop the resources of the country, 
must be sought in future pages. One restriction re- 
moved would be a boon to the company and the country. 

* United States and Mexican Mail Steamship Line. A pamphlet hy 
Carles Butterfield : Hasbrouch & Co., New York. 1860. 

+ It has secured to itself the advantage of altering the port of em- 
barkation. It began with Plymouth for passengers, London for specie, 
and L'pool whence the ships sailed. London being immemorially 
connected with Sierra Leone and its adjacent ports, caused a loss, 
which was remedied by a transfer to the grand northern terminus of 
the Bights and Oil-liiver trade. 



OUTWARD BOUND. 7 

It is not allowed to trade. It should be encouraged to 
station a hulk in every river, and its superior facilities 
of providing the natives, at the earliest convenience, 
with things suitable to their whimsical fancies would 
soon break up existing monopolies. Even now it might 
amalgamate with another company, but it fears the oil 
merchants, who on their part never give it a gallon of 
their goods unless compelled by the purest necessity. 

The African Steam Ship line was established in 
January, 1852, mainly by the energy of the late Mr. 
Macgregor Laird, the second pioneer of Niger explor- 
ation, and to the end of his days the most enthusiastic, 
if not the most fortunate, of African improvers. By 
virtue of certain comma-less articles, the "African 
Steam Ship Company " binds itself under a penal sum 
of £2000 to convey mails (and passengers), once every 
month, " between England and the West Coast of Africa, 
by means of a sufficient number (not less than seven) of 
good, substantial and efficient steam-vessels each fitted 
with a screw-propeller four of such vessels to be of not 
less than 978 register tons burthen old measurement 
each and each supplied with first-rate appropriate steam- 
engines of not less than 150 horse-power and the 
remaining vessel (to be employed intercolonially onl^J 
to be not less than 440 register tons burthen old 
measurement and supplied with first-rate appropriate 
steam-engines of not less than 100 horse-power. In- 
cluding arrival at and departure from England, twenty- 
two ports are to be visited. Its mileage is a grand total 
of 10,024 nautical miles, viz., 9434, and 590 of inter- 



8 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

national line. The average rate is to be eight knots an 
hour, and the return subsidy is fixed at a sum which 
justifies the African Steam Ship Company's motto 
u spero meliora." Its device, I may observe, is a negress 
agenoidllee, who presents to Britannia of the bare leg 
a little heap of (typical) " small potatoes," and " some 
punkins." Freightage to West Africa is still 51. per ton 
of gross cargo (Siam may be made for Si. 10s.) ; and 
by way of encouraging the return of palm oil, from 
West Africa it is thirty shillings less. Sucking officials 
may spare themselves the trouble of writing on foolscap 
for contract passages, which reduce 45/. to 44/. 55. 
Moreover, there is no difference of passage money 
between 1/pool and Benin River, and I/pool and 
"Fernando Po, which, is truly ridiculous. The line was 
recontracted for in July 1858, six years being the time 
of expiry. Before that day, however, the merchants of 
I/pool will probably provide the African Steam Ship 
Company with a rival. The more the merrier ! And 
when the present freight prices diminish to half, the 
export will be trebled, and the fantastic century-old style 
of oil-exporting will be numbered with things that were. 
The line has already, I have said, been beneficial to 
the West Coast of Africa, and will be more so by en- 
cow a g m g the "tin- pot trader," which in Oil-River-slang 
means the merchant who has no ship of his own. It 
may fairly be recommended to the public as one of the 
great civilising agents of the Benighted continent. It 
is highly important to invalids who are banished to 
Madeira, which it at present visits once a month about 



OUTWARD BOUND. 9 

the first clay ; and the irregularity in its arrivals and 
departures, complained of by guide-books,, has now 
made place for the contrary condition. The Island of 
the Blessed is also to be reached once a month by the 
' ' Lusitania," a small Portuguese steamer from Lisbon, 
and occasionally by an extra packet from Southampton, 
generally from September to November. The Angola 
Mail arrives about the same time as the A. S. S. : the 
Royal Mail has ceased to run there, owing they say to 
the ridiculous persistency of Lusitanian quarantine regu- 
lations ; it may, however, resume operations : and every 
year the vessel homewards bound for repairs touches at 
Madeira and takes passengers to England about May, 
the relief steaming outwards in October. The Penin- 
sular and Oriental proposes to send on its Lisbon 
steamer. Of the Compagnie Franco- Americaine I could 
hear nothing.* Practically, therefore, the Madeirans 
receive from Europe two mails per month, on the 17th 
via Lisbon, and on the 30th direct. 

The African Steam Ship linef is cursed, as will be 
seen, with an Intercolonial of some 400 tons; and woe to 

* The old brigs are dying out, the "Eclipse " was burned in 1861, 
the "Comet" was sunk in 1863, and the Portuguese "Galgo" is 
now the sole survivor. 

t The little fleet — may its shadow never be less ! — began with 
chartered ships; it then built the "Retriever," the "Forerunner," 
the "Faith," the "Hope," and the "Charity." The latter three 
being large, slow, and fitted with auxiliary screws, failed, and were 
sold. The next batch was unlucky. The "Candace," on board of 
which all the watch was asleep, was run into by a Dutchman, near 
Gibraltar. The "Niger" was wrecked by hugging the iron-bound 
shore of Tenerife, and the "Forerunner," which carried Dr. Living- 



10 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

those who travel by Intercolonial, either from Suez, St. 
Thomas, or the Bonny Biver. The regularity of the 
main line yields in the subsidiary to whatever interest 
demands. It ought to be held to time, but it cannot. 
It is hard to secure efficient officers for such craft, and 
harder still to keep them in health. Deck passage is 
farcically expensive, ten dollars each way : it should be 
reduced to half. All the African Steam ships are built 
for cargo, not for passengers; but the intercolonial 
screw beats all. It will carry eleven, with berths 
for four. A stewardess is impossible, also a doctor. 
There is no bath but under the hose. No con- 



stone's African journals, was lost on 25th Oct., 1854, close to Madeira. 
Passing too near the North Point, called in charts the "I. Fora," she 
ran upon a sunken rock or projection from the island, and went down 
in forty fathoms. Her gold is still on board — a hint to divers, who, 
however, have as yet failed. The "Gambia" was sold. The line now 
(Aug. 186—) consists of the "Cleopatra," Capt. Croft, 1400 tons 
(she will be disposed of, because too large), the "Armenian," Capt. 
Wylde, 1000 tons, the "Athenian," Capt. Lowry, 1050 tons, the 
old "Ethiope" of the second batch, Capt. French, 700 tons, and 
the intercolonial "Retriever," Capt. Delamotte, 400 tons. The 
" Macgregor Laird," a fine ship of 1000 to 1100 tons, is still on the 
stocks. 

. Since this was written, Captain Croft has taken command of the 
"Macgregor Laird," and the "Cleopatra," Capt. Delamotte, was lost 
on the 19th August, 1862, on the Shebar, at the mouth of the 
Sherbro River, 40 miles out of her course. An engineer and five 
Krumen were drowned. The crew escaped on rafts ; and the passengers 
who, though two days on board, had not time to save their watches, — 
landed in a single boat, three having drifted away whilst laying out a 
kedge. Mr. Hanson, Her Majesty's consular agent, Sherbro River, was 
drowned, with his boat's crew, as he came to their assistance — thirteen 
lives sacrificed by prodigious carelessness. A bad rumour went abroad 
that the old ship had been purposely lost. 



OUTWARD BOUND. 11 

veniences, except through a crowd of kruboys and 
negroes. In fact, a tour of the Oil Rivers in such a 
craft would be certain death to a sick man. Cases of 
the grossest negligence, even touching cargo, are quoted 
in the out-ports. A little steamer belonging to the 
Scotch Missionaries, in the Old Calabar, was left in the 
Bonny River exposed to w T ind and weather till it sank. 
The Camaroons mission complain that their boxes and 
building material have often been landed at the mouth 
of the river. Fernando Po murmurs because it has 
only eighteen hours to read and answer its letters, when 
the Intercolonial might easily give it three days without 
loss, by returning to it from the Camaroons River before 
rejoining her consort at the Bonny — the latter being 
a most unwise measure, which will some day eventuate 
in the loss of a large steamer. On the other hand, 
Gaboon is wroth because she is not visited at all, and 
only finds consolation in the idea, that she is not 
swamped by negro immigrants from Sierra Leone. I 
cannot but hope that the eventual terminus of the line 
will be St. Paul de Loanda, and that its voyages will 
be weekly instead of monthly. 

The little steamer winch carries us is now on her 
twenty-second voyage. She strikes the senses as micro- 
scopic, after the usual monsters of long sea voyages. 
Her engine is of 120 horse-power, and she burns some- 
what less than the normal allowance of coal — 1 ton to 1 
horses. The skipper, however, is allowed 5 per cent, for 
what he saves, consequently there is little haste and less 
speed. On the other hand, her builder always quotes 



12 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

her as his clief-cVceuvre, and she has sundry advantages, 
— everyone knows that whilst the largest transports are 
rarely comfortable, the smaller may be. We have no 
mail agent, thus securing the advantageous absence of 
a Royal Xavy " party," who has little to do, but fruges 
(et Bacchum) consumere, order four-oared gigs, and make 
the master suffer if everything be not "to his liking/' 
There are no "sea-swells;'' even "land-swells" are 
scarce, and are hardly appreciated. No " big-bugs " 
valet kidnaps the first cup of matutinal coffee. "No 
learned Theban from the East spins his forty-years' yarn 
or acts Triton amom? the Minnows. We do not alwavs 
get a "Purser's answer," ultra-diplomatic as pursers and 
soldiers when doing the diplomatic are wont to be. And 
the stewards (mirabile dlctu /) are civil and obliging. 
We wear paper collars, steel collars, linen collars, or no 
collars. We smoke abaft the mainmast, when crinoline 
adorns not the quarter-deck. The feeding is good — 
without too much of preserves — and we can drink 
the beer. 

On the other hand, the screw is painfully noisy, and as 
to the ladder I must quote from the West African Herald. 
"It will really/' says that amiable individual, "be for 
the general good if some governor, or other official of 
high standing, will get smashed between the foot of the 
ladder and his canoe ! " But when will men who make 
ships learn to make the steps slope the right way, and a 
joint in the backbone of the affair to prevent injuring 
boats ? Another desideratum, a little less deck-washing 
after four a.m. Also, a sad thing for the public, 



OUTWARD BOUND. 13 

which is feminine as well as masculine, is the want of 
stewardesses : these should be rendered obligatory.* 
And we have one solid grievance. The beer and stout 
are tolerable, but at this rate will not last ; and the ice 
may possibly endure to Lagos, the soda-water to the 
Bonny. But the wine is dear, and, what is worse, 
execrable : the African Steam Ship Company makes 
little by it, so we have to pay dear for simple careless- 
ness touching our comforts. The claret is black strap, 
the hock is sourish, the champagne all syrup, the 
Burgundy is like the house Burgundy of the Keform 
Club — meat as well as drink ; the Moselle sent son 
perruqttier ; the sherry is a mine of bile ; and of the 
port — the less said the better of such " strong military 
ditto." The coffee and tea are not bad naturally, but 
artificially; and to distinguish between them requires 
a very superior nose. Finally, our berths are, it is 
true, uncrowded, but they are capable of containing 
more than one, which should never be allowed on board. 
I have heard of four and even five human beings stuffed 
into one of these loose boxes, and it is not to be won- 
dered at if ladies who have never suffered in Africa, 
have been half-poisoned by their cabins when going 
home. Why should not the passengers be allowed 
legally to claim what is allowed to the denizens of every 
hospital, so many square feet of vital air ? 

At three p.m., on the- 30th of August, after a six 

* Even black women would be better tban nothing, if, as I suspect, 
white women would not live through the River -tour. At present the 
stewardess goes only as far as Madeira. 



14 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

days' run, we exchanged the North for the South. Off 
our port bow rose Porto Santo, a long broken line re- 
sembling a magnified crater or elongated Aden, which it 
probably is. The taller cones, especially the Pico de Pacho 
and the Pico de Anna Pereira, strongly suggest volcanic 
action, and the lower land, which is sandy rather than 
rocky, hides its fertility from the Atlantic wave. As we 
sped by it, a single gleam of golden sun piercing the 
crown of clouds, lit up its ribbed flanks with that 
picturesque suddenness that delights the eye, and made 
the surface resemble an expanse of ripening corn. 

Porto Santo derives its name from the glorious days 
of Portuguese history. Prince Enrique o Conquistador 
of Portugal, third son of Dom Joao I., by Philippa, 
daughter of John of Gaunt, and sister to Henry IY. of 
England, sent in 1418 one Joao Gonsalvo, whose title 
became "da Camara," surnamed Zargo, or the "one- 
eyed," and Tristao Yaz Teixeira, to explore the West 
African Seas. According to some writers the "Zargo" 
was directed by a pilot who, during imprisonment at 
Morocco, had heard of the Madeiran group from certain 
shipwrecked Englishmen: at any rate he is generally 
supposed to have discovered Porto Santo. The " Mono- 
culous one," who deservedly lies a local hero in the con- 
vent Saint Clara, of Punchal, appears to have been made 
of strongish stuff. The navigators of those days had a 
tradition that a veil of impenetrable darkness overhung 
the horizon of the " Holy Port," and that at times a 
mysterious sound struck the passer by into awe. 
Some fancied an abyss, others the mythical island Cipango, 



OUTWARD BOUND. 15 

where Providence had located the Christians that had 
escaped from the infidel Moors, others the mouth of 
Gehenna. Zargo, however, after being driven, in 1418, 
by a storm upon the rugged ridge, which he and his 
companions named in gratitude the Porto Santo, went 
straight for the gates of Hell, and two years afterwards 
discovered its big brother Madeira. Even in the present 
day the Porto Santians — who are far more African than 
European— believe in the existence of an island to 
the westward called San Brandao. It is occasionally 
visible, being probably a mist-land, a Fata Morgana, 
and if a stranger be seen to use a spy-glass, he is 
looking, men say, for San Brandao. San Brandao is 
also called St. Blandon, Brandon or Borondon, a 
Scotch priest who flourished in a. d. 565; his island is 
also seen from the Canaries. It is an old story, doubt- 
less dating from the submerged Atlantis *of Plato, which 
in the days of Columbus became Antilla, or the Island 
of the Seven Cities, and formed a midway house between 
the Old and New Worlds. I shall have more to say 
about these mystical islands which figure in the legends 
of all wild and superstitious maritime people ; meanwhile 
I may remark that Ptolemy's Aprositus or Inaccessible 
Island, with San Brandao and Antilla, appear to be 
the only presentiments of a Western Continent that 
floated in the Western mind. 

Porto Santo, around which lie various barren rocky 
islets, one of which supplies a fine lime- dirt cheap, is 
distant twenty-five geographical miles N.E. from Ma- 
deira; its dimensions are 6£ by 3 miles. It is the 



16 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

second of the five which compose the Erythian group, 
the others being Madeira and the Three Desertas, and 
they form a scalene triangle, the Desertas lying to the 
S.E. of Madeira. The surface is bare of trees, and the 
population, about 1500 souls, find but few water springs 
free from brackishness and carbonate of soda. Formerly 
it produced about 1500 pipes of coarse wine, used for 
brandvinff Madeira. When the Italian Cacadada Mosto 
visited it, in 1454, he saw numbers of Dragoliros, Dra- 
gon-trees (Dracama Draco) ; now not one remains, and 
even the sister island shows but few. In 1854, its harvest 
was about 11,000 bushels of barley, and its income 
was §1154 against an expenditure of $968. At Porto 
Santo during the last year, the steamer " Ganges," pro- 
ceeding to India for River Service, happened to break 
her back upon a spine of Porto Santo. The crew natu- 
rally wished to 'land, they were warned off, however, as 
not having a clean bill of health. Portugal has been 
reproached with the flimsiness of her paper laws, here, 
however, is an instance of authority austere enough. 

In the course of the afternoon we sighted, over the 
starboard bow, the similar form of Madeira, and admired 
the mass of cumulus gleaming over the topmost heights, 
Pico Ruivo and Pico Grande. These fine towers soon 
fell from sight, and with them the wild, grand scenery 
of the Northern coast, which, according to travellers, 
far excels that of the South. As evening drew near, we 
rounded the sharp, serrated line of basaltic rocks, called 
San Lourenco, the original name of the whole island, not 
because, like Madagascar, it was discovered on the anni- 



OUTWARD BOUND. 17 

versary of the Saint of the Gridiron, but because the 
Zargo's ship bore that name. Off this ridge is the 
submarine outlier, where, in 1854, the African steam- 
ship, " Forerunner/' was wrecked, and several lives were 
lost. We then glided by Machico, whose name recalls 
the tedious tale, old and oft told, of Robert a Machim, 
or Macham, and the " unfortunate Anne of Bristol." 
The elopement is well worn, as the heroic end of Major 
Pierson in Jersey, or the loves of Sassui and Punhu in 
Scinde; consequently a late authority — in these days 
there are many scoffers — pronounces it to be a " romantic 
and probably fabulous narrative." * Our " elbowing 
island " is determined to lay claim to the discovery, but 
the tale was probably invented to flatter Prince Henry. 
There are others again who suggest that the "noble 
Anna d'Arfet's" name was Miss Darby, daughter of a 
Bristol trader, and that her elopement was the result of 
her preferring a juvenile commoner to the elderly peer, 
her husband. Presently we doubled the bluff tufas 
and basalts of fantastic Garajao, by the northern bar- 
barians called Brazen Head, and we dropped anchor 
in the Bay of Funchal, — once much noted for fennel, 
— firing sundry guns, that produced nothing but a 
fine echo; like the hills of Jamaica, that crash as if 
about to fall when shot at. 



* The fatal test of dates lias been applied to it. Machim is said to 
have died in a.d. 1334 : Madeira was discovered in a.d. 1419. If 
Joao de Morales, the Spanish pilot, had acted as informant between 
Machim's people and Zargo, he had been at least forty-two years in 
prison. 

vol. I. 



18 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

The temperature changed by magic. The usual rough 
north-easterly breeze of the outside subsided into a 
luxurious, sensual calm, with occasional puffs of soft ex- 
citing westerly zephyrs, or vienio cle las mugeres, formed 
by the land-wind of night, eddying round the sea-bathed 
headlands. This charming " embate " is common about 
Funchal. We could distinctly smell the land, the 
scent being that of clover hay. Though it had barely 
struck 10 p.m., the little town lay silent, dull, and 
drowsy, like the lotus-eaters they are. The scattered 
reverberes told of oil, not of gas; they are fed by the 
Physic-nut, or Croton (/. jourgans) imported from 
Portugal. We felt a conviction that firing our three 
brass barkers was in vain. The health officer, being an 
aged senhor, had set out for his Quinta, andfesfin a 
lente being the motto of all his tribe, he preferred 
"Kayf" to giving us pratique that night. The com- 
mander of H.M.S. "Griffon," after vainly awaiting per- 
mission to board us, at last lost patience, and carried 
off his mail bag. We were detenus on board nolentes 
volentes, for which disappointment the faineantisme of 
" those Portugooses " suffered due contumely. 

I may here remark, that since the "cholera year" — 
1856 — the pratique regulations of Madeira are arbitrary 
and exclusive. The quarantine establishment has not 
been pulled down, but the lazaretto is wholly neglected, 
and admission to it is taboo'd, because, say the people, 
there must be all or nothing. When fever is supposed 
to be on the West African Coast, then bills of health 
are of no avail. The orders are probably sent from 



OUTWARD BOUND. 19 

Lisbon; the local authorities, however, do not object 
to money dribbling from the suspected ship into the 
town, only the coin must be passed through water. 
It is a truly ridiculous spectacle, the old toothless, nut- 
cracker-chinned health-officer, quavering with his childish 
treble, as he issues orders to his boatmen forbidding any 
more daring soul to near the gangway, and depositing 
all letters in a deal box, under which he lights a dwarf 
spirit lamp. He is naturally subject to abundant 
"chaffing," when he waxes wrath and raises his blear 
eyes, and declares that he will stop the coaling, which 
direful threat procures for him a little peace. 

Most of our company retired to rest impatient as 
children waiting to see the curtain draw up. Mr. Lyall 
("Rambles in Madeira, 1827,") declares, like Baron 
von Humboldt, that every traveller opens his quarto with 
a short notice of Madeira. Yet, to judge from such 
queries as " are there any hotels here? " the public does 
not seem to know much about it. 



CHAPTER II. 

A DAY AT MADEIRA. 

31st August. 
" I do not know a spot on the globe which so astonishes and delights 
upon first arrival as the island of Madeira. The voyager embarks and 
is, in all probability, confined to his cabin, suffering under the dreadful 
prostration of sea- sickness. Perhaps he has left England in the 
gloomy close of autumn, or the frigid concentration of an English 
winter. In a week he again views that terra-firma which he had 
quitted with regret, and which in his sufferings he would have given 
half that he possessed to regain. When he lands upon the island, what 
a change ! Winter has become summer ; the naked trees which he 
left are exchanged for the luxuriant and varied foliage ; snow and frost 
for warmth and splendour ; the scenery of the temperate zone for the 
profusion and magnificence of the tropics ; a bright blue sky ; a glow- 
ing sun ; hills covered with vines ; a deep blue sea ; a picturesque and 
novel costume ; —all meet and delight the eye, just at the precise moment 
when to have landed on a barren island would have been considered 
a luxury." — Cajpt. Marryat. 

I passed the long length of a single day and night in 
and off Madeira, and, consequently, consider myself 
highly fitted to write a somewhat lengthy account of it. 
Despise not, gentle reader, first impressions, especially 
in a traveller. The authors of guide-books for the most 

* Quoted — the first, but not the last, quotation from "Madeira, its 
Climate, and its Scenery, a Handbook for Visitors," by R. White, 
and edited by J. Y. Johnson. A useful volume, and trustworthy in 
most things, save that necessary over • appreciation of its subject 
which essentially belongs to the genus guide book. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 21 

part excuse their authorship upon the plea of "long 
sojourn;" of "practical knowledge;" and of "fifteen 
or twenty years' experience." Such, naturally, deride 
the audacious intruder, who, after a few hours' stroll 
and chat, presents himself upon their premises. I am 
convinced, however, that if a sharp, well-defined outline 
is to be drawn, it must be done immediately after arrival 
at a place ; when the sense of contrast is still fresh upon 
the mind, and before second and third have ousted first 
thoughts. Thus were written such books as " Eothen " 
and " Rambles Beyond Railways ;" thus were not written 
Lane's "Egyptians" or Davis's " Chinese." Except in 
a New World, where the mind is stunned, observation 
will, a few days after arrival, lose all its distinctness. 
The man who has dwelt a score of years in a place, has 
forgotten every feeling with which he first sighted it ; 
and if he writes about it, he writes for himself and for 
his fellow-oldsters, not for the public. The sketcher who 
acts as I propose to do will, of course, make an occa- 
sional bad blunder, even as the reverend author of the 
" Cruise of the North Star " converted the humming- 
bird house- moth of Madeira into a Trochilus, as Captain 
Alexander translated Penha d'Aguia, the eagle's wing 
(for rock) ; or as the " Rambler in Madeira " rendered 
Paiil de Serra (the "Marsh of the Wild") "some 
chapel or shrine of St. Paul." These ridiculous little 
blots will be "nuts" to the old resident. But, in 
the main, the gudche will be true and vivid. Of 
course I do not intend my traveller to indite the 
normal chapter upon the "Manners and Customs of 



22 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the People/' whom he sees in the streets ; nor, during 
his very short sojourn, do I expect that he will neglect 
to avail himself, as a practised hand always can, of 
the information derived from those that have learned 
the place a fond. After which preamble, return we 
to Madeira. 

Going " up stairs," as the sex says, at 5 a.m. on the 
day after arrival, I cast the first glance at Eunchal, the 
place of Fennel. The town is far larger than any at the 
Canaries, and is said to contain 25,000 to 30,000 souls, 
one-fourth of the population of the island ; it lies at the 
bottom of a' shallow bay, whose arc is five and a half, 
and whose chord is three-quarters of a mile long from 
Brazen Head to Ponta da Cruz, and the scattered San 
Joao rocks. Immediately behind it is a curtain of lofty 
lulls, rent on the right by a deep fiumara, a huge gash 
called the Bibeiro de Joao Gomez, winch, with other 
barrancas in front and on the extreme left, confines the 
city to sundry waves of ground radiating from above. 
Nothing can be more beautiful than this immense bank 
of vegetation, — this vast pyramid, that looks as if the 
land had been tilted up at an angle of 40°. Nothing 
more lovely than the variety and contrast of the greens, 
for instance, the young sugar-cane a vivid vitriolic hue 
broken by clumps of dark holm-oak, myrtle, gloomy 
cypress, — it figures here as in Persia, — and dull bay, 
with here and there a palm-tree, symbol of the South 
and East. The multitude of little terraces and dwarf 
earthbanks in short horizontal lines, with which the 
ruddy face of the mountain is wrinkled, contrasts curi- 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 23 

ously with the rounded summits of the upper heights. 
It yields in the upper heights to clumps of trees 
and ground bare or sparsely clad with heath, thyme, 
whortleberry, bilberry, laurel, and various grasses. 
Eastward lies a tract of barren red land, arid slopes 
which even joint-stock companies have vainly attempted 
to irrigate. Westward is another hill-shoulder upon 
which the south of the city reposes ; it is black with 
basalt, the material of Fernando Po, Prince's Island, 
and San Thome,* and red with tufa and argil. The 
most conspicuous feature is the Ilheo (small sea-holm), 
by the English called Loo rock, a detached and rugged 
mass of basalt, which has been walled up and surmounted 
with a little citadel where signals and continual salutes — 
the latter becoming happily rare in Europe — vex the 
English and invalid ear. This fort, which the natives 
consider a local Gib, was bombarded by H.M.S. "Endea- 
vour/' Captain Cook, R.N., the circumnavigator, for an 
affront offered to the British flag. The incident, which 
took place in 1768, was expunged by order of Govern- 
ment from Hawkesworth, but was made public by Mr. 
Eorster, who visited the island in 1772. "Loo" has 
not much to boast of: no submarine tunnel connects 
it with the Pontinha, or Little Point of the nearer 
mainland, so that bolting must be made in time. It 
recalls to me the remark of a Persian friend whom I 
once escorted over a man-of-war : " Ajab chiz ast mager 

* Usually called St. Thomas, and thus confounded with the Danish 
St. Thomas, in the West Indies, of Dano-Anglo- Yankee-Nigger 
celebrity.- 



24 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

j6e guriz nist" — "A wonderful affair; but how the 
deuce does one run away ? n Sailing vessels usually lie 
E.N.E., and east of the Loo rock, with good anchorage 
in 25 to 30 fathoms. Steamers of course place themselves 
nearer the shore. Eunchal port is evidently a mere road- 
stead, depending for safety upon the Embate, or westerly 
wind, which here blows nine months during the year. 
When, however, as very often happened, especially in the 
terrible storms of 1803, 1842, and 1848, the wind is from 
the south or the south-east, ships must slip cables and 
clear the Points under pain of rinding themselves stranded. 
At the time of my visit the Madeiran fleet was not exten- 
sive,— H.M.S. "Griffon/' Commander Perry, R.N., a 
Portuguese revenue cutter, and two or three small mer- 
chantmen. 

The atmosphere about the town is somewhat hazy. 
Madeira's veil is thicker even than that of Tenerife. The 
dew-clouds are slowly clearing off the upper heights — 
there is not, however, a stain of smoke. The sea is of 
limpid Mediterranean blue, and the gulls and kittie- 
wakes — some of these stupids have apparently followed 
us from L'pool — float like corks upon the lazy tepid 
swell. The aspect of the buildings is that of the Por- 
tuguese colonies generally; the houses are vast, with 
huge hanging balconies and lanterns, gazabos, belvederes, 
terrinhas or turrets on the upper stories, where the resi- 
dents catch the cooling breezes. The colours are various ; 
frequently a bilious yellow, with green or brown jalousies, 
and the roofs, once flat and terraced, are now steep 
slopes of home-made tile. Square, staring, similar, and 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 25 

unseemly, these habitations appear from afar like little 
dens, and, individually ugly, are not so en masse. The 
rus in urbe here, as in Asiatic Portugal, is conspicuous. 
There is a tree for each house; on the east lies the 
Praca Academica, a formal strip of plantation; in front 
of the Fortaleza or palace there are more scattered and 
ragged growths forming the Praca da Eainha, whilst 
clumps and avenues appear in different parts of the 
town where the Pracas answer to English squares, 
French boulevarts, and Spanish prados and alamedas. 
The buildings thin out as they climb the hill. At the 
first coup ticeil I was somewhat struck by the absence 
of sacred edifices: presently on landing these were 
found to be not less numerous than in other Lusi- 
tanian settlements. The woods from which Madeira, 
like Kyle,* derived her name, and which according to 
that dreadful " story " history, when accidentally set on 
fire, burned for seven consecutive years — one of Clio's 
pleasant little "desiperes" — have mostly disappeared. 
In fact, as the old Portuguese chronicler says, the island 
should now be called da Pedra, not da Madeira — Petrosa, 
not Sylvania. 

The principal buildings in the town, beginning from 
the right of the charming amphitheatre, are : — The Port 
of St. Iago, lying about one mile east of the city, and 
apparently dismantled. Next the Praca Academica, or 
Academic groves, thick, sombre, and close to the sea, 
at the mouth of a great jagged Eibeiro, whose deep 

* Kyle, in Ayrshire, celebrated by Burns, is derived by some Gaelic 
scholars from choille, wood ; others ignore the derivation. 



26 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

shingly bed, even down this distance, tells of terrific 
torrents. About the heart of the mass the Se or Cathe- 
dral exposes its tall dark tower, with the lower third 
whitewashed, and a dwarf poikillated spire capped with 
a large gilt weather-cock. Upon the beach stands a 
ridiculous column of dark basalt, a tower of Babel, half 
finished, and never likely to be done. An English 
merchant, Mr. Banger, Benger, or Badger, built this 
Folly at a cost of £1350, to unload vessels, and — such is 
action at Madeira — when it attained its present altitude 
it found itself at a respectable distance from the sea. A 
little to the left is the yellow Fortaleza de San Lourenco, 
rebuilt in 1803 ; this palace, fronted by a dwarf prom- 
enade, the Praca de Eainha, is a large pile of masonry, 
somewhat like those of Goa in her palmy days. Further 
left, and overlooking the town, is the Citadel or Peak 
Fort (Castello do Pico de San Joao), an artless work, 
whose vertical fire would, in these days, do very little 
damage. The extreme left concludes with a gunless 
battery, completing a total of eleven ; being a fieur 
cTeau, it might be utilised ; an old convent, a lime- 
kiln, and the universal coal-shed ; a new consumptive 
hospital, of magnificent proportions, since opened, but 
closed in consequence of a local squabble ; a cemetery 
bristling with pyramidal cypress ; and a large building 
belonging to an English settler, and lately occupied by 
Her Majesty of Austria. 

At 6 a.m. on the 31st August, we were visited by a 
boat containing the post-captain, a stout Portuguese 
gentleman, speaking English uncommonly well, and the 



A BAY AT MADE TEA. 27 

health* officer, a very old party, who, after a few silly 
professional questions, vouchsafed us pratique. There- 
upon the ladder-foot was jammed by a shoal of boats 
built after the Mediterranean fashion, broad in the 
beam, substantial, treble-keeled and iron-shod to bear 
hard grating and to prevent upsetting when drawn up, 
painted green for coolness, with a broad stripe of yellow 
for beauty, and provided with tall, knobbed posts rising 
high at stem and stern for the support of the indispen- 
sable awning. The oars are curious contrivances, not 
unlike those formerly used in "Western Ireland ; in place 
of rowlocks, a pin fits into a hole in a broadening 
surface ¦ the men row well with a long and steady stroke. 
"We descended with the usual life-and-death struggle, all 

CO ' 

for a shilling ahead ! passed over the transparent blue 
waters, where little Portingals disported themselves in 
nature's suit, and turning stern-on backed till we were 
hauled by a team of bullocks up the shingle of water- 
rolled basalt pebbles. Near the landing-place is a dwarf 
caes or pier, a portion of whose cyclopean stones — 
concrete would have been better — has been washed 
away, and which, as might be expected, has not been 
repaired. On the narrow strip of dull brown sand lay 
boats, nets, a large store of planks, and other furniture 
of a sea-port. 

The Entrada da Ciudade, a short street, broad, paved 
with basaltic cobble stones, lined with gutters, and shaded 
with fine over-arching plane-trees, which, fuel being expen- 
sive, are barbarously trimmed, leads to the great square. 
On the right, near the water, is the health office and 



23 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA 

commercial rooms, where registers and newspapers are 
found, and an unsightly ruin meets the eve. On the 
left, with its facing of green promenade, is the Fortaleza, 
denoted by two sentinels, soldiers of the 1st regiment 
of Cacadores, with dark-green jackets and white overalls 
— the appearance of these Light Infantry is soldierly 
and workmanlike. At this hour we find " HollwayV 
the local Long's, dead asleep ; but a small boy is 
procured for a sixpence to supply us with brandy and 
soda for comforting the stomach during our long ride. 
Mr. Hollway, who has been many years upon the island, 
keeps three establishments — a small boarding-house in 
the town, a larger one on the Caminho do Meio, and 
in summer a Quinta near the village of Camacha. The 
terms for living are 10/. 10s. per mensem, not including 
private sitting-room, wines, or other extras. There is 
a multitude of similar boarding-houses, as Miles', Reid's, 
Wardrop's, "Neale's, &c, &c. Guilletti's is the only hotel 
properly so called. Besides boarding-houses, there are 
apartments and lodgings to let from 50/. to 200/. the 
season or the year. The town, in fact, is one huge 
caravanserai, all for hire. 

Amongst the eager hungry crowd which accompanied 
us brawling from the landing-place, we chose two fellows, 
and struck a bargain for a mount over the Elysian 
Fields of Madeira, which, by-the-bye, are pretty steep 
hills. The legal charge for horse, two-oared boat, or 
covered car, is 300 reis — Is. 2>d. per hour, or $2 per 
day.* But here, as elsewhere, the stranger pays double 

* The pataca, or dollar, in Madeira is reckoned at 4s. 2d. The 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 29 

by way of penalty ; the inevitable visit to Nossa Senliora 
do Monte will, unless you make an agreement before- 
hand, cost $2, besides other small coins. The nags were 
highly creditable, thick-set little Lisbons, eleven to 
twelve hands high, with tolerable English saddles and 
bridles; the cost of a good horse is $200, (44/.) j of a 
mule, $15 — 20; of an ass, poor as the English breed, 
$5 — 10. Riding-animals are rough-shod, with large 
oblong nails, and long projecting clamps and claws at 
the back of the hoof, raising them like our great-grand- 
mothers'. There are few wheeled carriages in the island, 
and in 1827 there was not one. Invalids take exercise 
in covered cars, like the body of a caleche placed upon 
a sledge, furnished with curtains and drawn by oxen, 
whence it is called a boi-car, or cow-cart : the inven- 
tion is attributed to a Major Bulkeley, who, though not 
a bulky man, excogitated, some fifteen years ago, this 
contrivance for his family. A less sociable form is the 
palanquin, half-roofed and cradle-shaped, not box-formed 
like the East Indian, and the Manchila, or hammock, 
familiar to Portuguese West Africa, is much used by 
those who care little for looking or being looked at. 
Pipes of wine and boxes of goods are carried in the 
rudest of vehicles : a sleigh formed of two planks, six 
or eight feet long, pierced at both ends, and fastened 
together. A perch is attached to the fore part, and a 
yoke enables the oxen to draw it ; when friction is likely 
to inflame, a cactus leaf or a wet rag is placed under the 

coinage is decimal ; the testao, or "bit," is worth five-pence, and the 
dois testaoes, or "pistareen,'' is ten-pence. Gold is rai-ely seen. 



30 WANDEBINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

wood to diminish heat and to render the run smoother. 
This contrivance, which may be seen on the American 
plains — vide Captain Marcy's "Prairie Traveller " — 
might be utilised in places by the African explorer, but 
where the ground is soft it would clog and become 
unmanageable. The streets of Madeira show hard 
labour. The slope and the frequency of Fajaas, or 
land-slips, render it necessary to pave all the highways, 
which would otherwise be swept into the sea. The 
material is the inevitable dark basalt. On the smoother 
passages, — there is hardly an acre of level ground in 
the island, — cobble stones or round pebbles are chosen, 
sometimes disposed in a rude mosaic, white lozenges 
and circles standing out from the black. The extreme 
angle of these roads is 23° (or 1 in 2£), and 14° 
(1 in 4), is not much thought of. "Where the ascents 
are steepest the material is angular, and there are 
raised lines like steps disposed broadways. The result 
of this superabundant labour # is excellent ; the rain 
washes the streets without leaving mud, and conse- 
quently there is not more dust than smoke. 

Mounting our nags, we — my companion in the Gold 
Coast Artillery and I — progressed leisurely. There is a 
fine of $3 for hard riding in the streets, and we had no 
mind to imitate the " galloping griffins and Pariah 
dogs," which a gruff general officer described as the 
greatest of nuisances in Bombay. The first sight was 
the Praca da Constitucao, an oblong with dwarf trees, 
an unpaved area, where the feet are relieved from stone- 
treading, and garnished with shady benches and a raised 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 31 

platform for the band, which here plays twice a week. 
On the east is the Se, or Cathedral of San Francisco, 
commenced in 1485, and completed in 1514. It con- 
tains some hideous pictures and a fine fretted ceiling of 
native juniper (/. Oxycedrus), a wood now almost cleared 
off the island. The other, or western extremity, is flanked 
by S. Francis, an almost ruinous building, whose barred 
windows, tall walls, and porcelained towers show that it 
was a religious house ; the institution which in Chris- 
tianity has taken the place of the pagan vestal virgins. 
It was suppressed and secularised in 1834, when the 
island, after the final defeat of Don Miguel, passed into 
the hands of Don Pedro, and shared the fate of five mo- 
nasteries and three nunneries. On the west of the 
Praca is the Santa Casa da Misericordia, or hospital, 
built in 1834, and next to it the Convente de Santa 
Isabel, from whose grated windows female orphans 
peep. The former is a large building, with a propor- 
tionate staff, a chapel, and a chaplain ; but it seldom 
contains more than ninety in-door patients at the same 
time. It will become a succursale to the grand" new 
building which overlooks the sea. 

Biding through the somewhat intricate streets up the 
Carreira, or local Corsa, past the English club, the 
college, church, and by the barracks, we found the 
houses framed with huge basaltic monoliths. The 
windows— many of them built in the old style, glass- 
less, and provided with a little wicket in the shutter — 
are grated in the ground floor, which is here the only 
bank, after the fashion of Southern Europe. The gates 



32 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

are vast as those in the East, and huge staircases and 
double flights of steps spring from the paved and 
piazza'd Patio within them. At times aroused by the 
clatter of hoofs, the seiiorita thrusts her head from the 
casement, and speedily withdraws it from the stare of 
the strangers fresh from a week on board ship. Here 
may be taken the opportunity of remarking, that though 
some fine eyes and hair appeared, I did not see amongst 
the lower orders a single pretty face; the every-day 
dress is sadly unpicturesque. Swarthy skins, flat faces, 
round, stout contours bon-sens expression, and a won- 
drous waddle, are here the rule. The countrywomen 
wear uncrinolined gowns of calico and cheap stuff, 
with capas or long cloaks, and sometimes red and blue 
shawls over their heads. The peasantry at Madeira, as 
elsewhere, is abandoning its highly appropriate local 
costume, which now can rarely be seen except in dead 
life. The men are in shirts and long terminations, 
or femoralia, of home-spun long-cloth. Both sexes 
have limp top-boots or shoes of buff-coloured goat's 
leather, and decorate themselves with the ugly cara- 
puca, a cap whose utter inutility secures for it some 
notice. It is a dwarf calotte of blue broadcloth, some 
five inches in diameter at the base or broadest part, so 
small that it appears to maintain its place by the exertion 
of the frontal and occipital muscles. The more jauntily 
it is worn on one side, to the confusion of the laws of 
gravitation, the more " dandified " is the wearer. From 
the apex of the funnel projects a pigtail of the same 
material, unicorn fashion, or rather in the style of the 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 33 

Algerian rats, whom the savants discovered with tails 
growing out of their noses. Not the slightest use can 
be assigned to this head-gear, except perhaps the " wild 
caprice of mortal will," that dictated queues, powder 
and pomatum to our grandfathers. According to the 
best authorities, this silly pet of the peasantry was not 
used during the last century ; the horn of Madeira was 
not then exalted. It may eventually disappear before 
the foulard and the straw hat. On Fieras the popula- 
tion turn out in much more " dressy " style, with a 
somewhat violent parure, and, as in India, there are 
quaint little figures in the shops which illustrate the 
costumes for the edification of Europe. 

Presently we pass the bridge which spans the torrent 
of Santa Luzia. In former times there were no walls, 
consequently the three fiumaras that traverse the town 
have committed awful damage, sweeping away build- 
ings, damaging the harbour by making the water 
several fathoms more shallow, and on one occasion 
destroying 400 lives. S. Luzia is a dangerous "wady," 
with a fearful slope, bone-dry at present, but rolling 
after rains a fierce and sudden flood, which rises and 
subsides in a few hours. It is 80 to 100 feet broad, 
and 20 to 30 feet deep, with rapid slopes. The water 
pours down it as through crevasses in the Mississippi 
levees, and the flood has been known to jerk over the 
wdls rocks, which several teams of oxen have been re- 
quired to remove. The "nymphs of Arethusa," as our 
soldiers in Sicily called the hideous old washerwomen 
of that classical spot, here ply their trade, and the larger 



34 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

boulders are white with sunning linen. Hence the 
phrase is niandar a roupa ao Ribeiro — " sending linen 
to the river : " — and the violent treatment of that linen 
reminds me of an Indian dhobi demolishing my Ludlams. 
Eiding up the left bank shady with planes, we pass in 
the gardens a few but a very few vines, with many 
plantains, and bananas, which here extend to 1000 
feet above sea-level, the Inhame (Koko Kalo or 
Colocasia esculenta, a large-leaved esculent, growing 
in low and swampy ground,) pumpkins, Chou-chou 
[Sechium edule), hanging from trellises, and gourds 
used like calabashes and trained to little arbours. 
A prodigious variety of fruit, consisting of custard 
apples, guavas, rose-apples, pine-apples, tamarinds, 
maumee apples, mulberries, the common apples and 
pears, Longan {Nleplielium longan) pears, u alligator 
pears," walnuts, plums, peaches, figs, apricots, limes, 
pomegranates, lemons, citrons, loquats, pitangas, chiri- 
moyas, passion-fruits, papaws, and mangoes * is found 
scattered about the sunny slopes. Various European 
vegetables, potatoes, tomatoes, and greens of all varieties 
grow side by side with batatas (sweet potatoes), chilis, 
pimentos, arrowroot, ginger, the castor plant, the 
bamboo, and that most useful cane, Arundo donax. 
As we ascend, the effect of vertical action upon the 

* At Sierra Leone there are good mangoes, especially that kind 
called "No. 11." There is also the " peach mango," which assumes 
the hue of that fruit on the side next the sun. All the others have 
that turpentine flavour which renders them fit only for "fool." At 
Madeira the cold is too great for the mango to attain any excellence — 
where ' ' tolerable " it is "not to be endured." 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 35 

productions of nature is conspicuous. At every few 
hundred yards the vegetation becomes less tropical ; the 
cactus, banana, Cedar of Goa, yucca, date-palm, rose- 
apple, Bignonia and Kim, or " pride of India," con- 
cerning which the Hindoo sings, 

" The Nim, though watered with gur and with gbi, 
Will still remain bitter as bitter can be " — * 

give place to clumps and plantations of maritime pine, 
with chestnuts which supply "polenta," the walnut, 
the carob or St. John's bread, and forests of laurel. 
Higher up and above the woody region are bare crags 
protruding from grass, heath, furze, and broom.f 
Botanists, however, have dwelt upon the almost com- 
plete absence in the most elevated part of the island 
of Alpine types. The same, as has lately been seen, is 
the case with the Camaroons Mountain. 

The little nags, panting and blowing, did wonders ; 
an English horse would have been dead-beat half way. 
When the pace is fast, the guide hangs on by the tail, 
a sensible proceeding, which in these days of rapid evo- 
lutions might possibly be applied to the movements of 
light infantry, chasseurs a pied, cacadores, and others. 

* The original is in Braj Bakha, the patois of the Braj district. 
The whole distich is 

"Whatever the character is, it goeth not forth from man's life. 
The Nim (Margosa) tree will not be sweet if you water it with gur 
(molasses) and with ghi (clarified butter)." 
+ According to Bowdich, the vine region here extends to 2700 feet 
above sea level, though wine is not produced above 2080 : the zone 
of brooms, pines, ferns, and chestnuts to 3700 ; of laurels and valli- 
uiums to 5600, and of heaths to 6000. 

d 2 



36 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

We met at this early hour ox sledges bearing wine 
pipes, asses laden with sand and stone, and a few market 
mules with tinkling bells. The horns of the animals 
were pierced for thongs, and on each forehead hung a 
bit of carved bone as a defence against Malocchio. 
"We passed sundry beggars, propped on alpenstocks — 
the land swarms with paupers — whilst at every cottage 
a white-haired babe or black-haired child put forth, 
under parental tuition, the hand of mendicancy. 
Beggars they are born, and they shall die beggars. 
" Bakhshish " is by no means confined to the banks 
of the Nile. The dogs, as they will in India, barked 
at us from the summit of the walls. The people 
were peculiarly civil and kindly; every man touched 
his hat, and the women did not object to a "good 
morning." Some of the poor devils were hardly used : 
their heads were laden with cords of dry underwood, or 
huge bundles of fresh grass, and the foucinho (sickle) 
hung from their wrists. Men were toilingly carrying 
up the hills the sledges which had conveyed merchandise 
down the slopes. In one hat by the wayside, we saw a 
truly Oriental flour mill. A stream diverted from a 
levada or raised watercourse through a wooden pipe, 
was working a wheel that turned the upper half of a 
pair of basaltic stones rough as trachyte. The popu- 
lation of the island is darker than that of Portugal. 
Negro features are not seen, but the mulatto skin is. 
They are thieves and pilferers on a small scale, rarely 
. violent, and reportedly timid. Such is the mildening effect 
of climate, that the women rarely scold, the children 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 37 

rarely cry. They have musical talents, and, like their 
Spanish and Portuguese cousins, have the organ of 
language highly developed; even amongst the pea- 
sants, improvisation, harmonic conversations and cap- 
ping verses are exercises common as the aesthetic tea 
party of the German professor. In conversation they 
have a kind of nasal drawl or sing-song; the same is 
the case at Tenerife, and apparently it is a disease 
common to colonies in general. Capt. Hall compares 
the lingo to Bermudan English. Finally, Madeira is 
part of Africa, and the Madeirans are Africans, but they 
hate to be told that they belong to that ill-starred 
portion of our planet. 

The gutters, as in Salt Lake City, gurgled with cool 
water, here the primal requisite for cultivation, — fields 
and gardens fronting the meridian sun cannot thrive 
without copious irrigation. The upper heights, which 
attract more rain than the lower regions, afford a few 
perennial springs, which would course through the rivers 
to the ocean, but for the industry of man. Water- 
courses have been built and excavated with abundant 
toil ; each is under a committee or a judge ; the distri- 
bution is managed carefully, but lawsuits often arise, liti* 
giousness being everywhere part of the peasants' organi- 
sation; and heavy sums have been sunk on unskilful 
levellings. Every garden that can afford it, keeps a 
tank fashioned somewhat like the mysterious reservoirs 
of Aden. At this season water is deliciously abundant. 

After riding up the steep hill for about a quarter of 
the way, we, in very pity, breathed the nags, and listened 



38 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

to the song of the Tintonegro, capirote, or hill-nightin- 
gale, that has found its way from the coast of Barbary. 
Our guides preceded us; and presently we found them at a 
wine-shop, where they tried the usual trick upon strangers. 
They asked us to drink, and brought us a sample of the 
purest Madeira, composed of caxaca — aguardiente, cana, 
cane brandy or rum — and water flavoured with apples, 
each element being distinctly tasteable. The custom is 
to take a shilling pour hoire, and then to ask a second, 
that the men may refresh themselves. The coin is osten- 
tatiously clapped upon the counter, proving thereby that 
the payment is lond fide. The guide drinks standing at 
the door, with a low bow to the senhor's good health. 
On return he receives back ten pence out of the shilling, 
and laughs in his sleeve at your verdancy. The most 
cynical thing I could do to the fellows I did. It was 
to present them with sixpence. Had nothing been given 
they would have been resigned, but the sight of " siller " 
tantalised their very souls. Poor devils, they have a 
sad life ! The island is overpopulated, choked with 
some 101,000 — the census of 1854 — instead of 50,000, 
like our Isle of Man. The government most unwisely 
lays an embargo upon emigration, by a heavy passport 
duty of ten shillings ; consequently the people are half- 
starved. 

I should not have grudged our attendants their 
wretched shilling had they put it upon the score of 
want; but finessing always arouses a lurking spirit of 
opposition. 

At length, after a little descent through a thick grove 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 39 

of Spanish chestnuts, we turned sharp, and came upon 
the church of Nossa Senhora do Monte, known to the 
English as "Mount Church," and often called by 
strangers " the Convent." The building, a tall cinque- 
cento, with a domed belfry and steeple at each flank, 
is seen glistening from the sea., thrown out in alt- 
relief by the dark curtain of luxuriant vegetation that 
forms its background : the contrast between the black 
basalt bordering and the glaring whitewash is not 
without effect. It lies three miles N. N. W. of the 
town, and is 1965 feet above sea-level. The lady to 
whom it was dedicated has done much for Madeira. 
Sailors offer their vows to her before voyaging. About 
a century ago, when a famine threatened the island, a 
ceremonious procession was made to the church: next 
day, in a perfect calm, arrived a grain-ship, drawn 
towards the shore, as all saw, by a woman in white. 
Moreover, the doll's dress was found to be wet with sea- 
water. Such is a small specimen of the gracious deeds 
of our "Lady of the Mount," whom under another 
name we shall meet at Santa Cruz, Tenerife. 

A broad flight of porous basaltic steps, up which the 
faithful, especially the fair faithful, are fond of climbing 
on bare and bended knee, led to the portico, a thing of 
similar materials supported by two columns. The door 
was open, and two aged women who looked wickedly at 
the intruding Herege Ugnota, composed the congrega- 
tion. The pavement is of slabs of basalt, covered with 
thin planking. Nothing can be more barbaric than the 
ornaments of architecture in these lands, where the 



40 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

cathedral is by no means a pleasant place even in 
summer. The most sensuous and artistic of races, the 
people of the Mediterranean, become in their colonies 
grotesque as Britons. I could not feel commonly re- 
spectful with these caricatures around me, in a sacristy 
containing daubs of an impossible ark and red-winged 
cherubim, a ridiculous Abraham cutting down an absurd 
Isaac, angels carrying preposterous grape-bunches slung 
to a banghy-pole, and other results of talent which at 
home we see lavished upon the head of George E. or 
the Eingwood Arms. To the left was a senhora in a 
white spangled robe with blue starry cloak, white and 
blue being the orthodox colours of the Virgin before the 
Nativity. Her expression was that of the intellectual- 
looking wax doll. The real thing, however, is a little 
Fetish on the high altar, a small swarthy image like 
Santa Maria de' Neri at Sorrento.* She stands upon a 
silver-like metal, and wears a gold brocade begemmed 
with precious stones whose proportions in life would be 
somewhat larger than soup tureens. A jewelled head- 



* At least she was there in my youth ; but she came, I fear, to grief. 
During one of the eruptions, when placed before the fiery flood, she was 
powerless as Knut the Dane to prevent its sweeping down upon her. To 
punish this excessive ingratitude for numberless wax candles, she was 
hurled into the lava with a universal 'naccia I'anima tua . . . . / by 
her justly indignant votaries. Similarly the Hon. John Byron, in his 
amusing narrative of his wreck on the coast of Patagonia, saw a 
Jesuit, who, when the sea was dangerous, * went back into the cabin 
and brought out the image of some saint, which he desired might be 
hung up in the mizen shrouds ; which being done, he kept threatening 
it, that if we had not a breeze soon he would certainly throw it over- 
board. " 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 41 

dress and a spangled petticoat seem to be the beau ideal 
of Roman Catholic beatitude in this world. As has been 
shown, she is high JuJu, — great medicine : beating by 
a long chalk all the other nozza senhoras in the island. 
St Anthony occupies a private apartment off the right 
aisle. I know not what he and his pigs have done to 
make them popular at Madeira. Sant' Jago Minor is 
the city's patron saint. 

A mob of boys and youths accompanied us through 
the building, pointed out the piscina, exulted over the 
single bell in one of the two domed turrets which at 
a distance resemble bilboquets, patted the organ, placed 
themselves in the confessionals, and showed us the habi- 
tations of the priest and the Altareiro, or verger — in fact, 
went through the normal course of cicerone-ism. 

"We were then led to the properer place of worship, a 
fountain below the ugly church ; a little spring of pure 
cold water issuing from the rock and tumbling adown 
the slope, 

1 Where all the margin round about was set 
With shady trees." 

amongst which the ever-green til and vintratico were 
conspicuous. 

It was true relief to turn from the pettiness and 
tawdriness behind to the magnificent temple of nature 
before us. There was a lovely panorama of bold shore, 
sea and shipping, — dwarfed to the size of a child's toy 
smaller than the kestrel floating in the midway air, — 
town and harbour, house and garden, Quinta and 
farms and palheiros (thatched huts), shaggy fields, 



42 WAKDEEIXGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

dwarf plains, tall penhas, watercourses, channels, and 
dark abrupt ravines with their picturesque voltas. Far 
to the left lay a comforting sight that relieved the 
feeling of isolation, the long lines and sharp spires of 
the blue Desertas — the Desert Isles called by our sailors 
"the Deserters;" in front the horizon, abnormally high, 
as if we were in the centre of a bowl, rose brightly marked 
against a glowing sky; and above us the spicular moun- 
tains, and the central ridges of the Erythian Isle, with 
the thinnest gauze of dew-mist drawn, yeshmak-like, 
across her brows. 

A mile eastward of the Mount Church led us through 
lanes paved and high-walled to the vertiginous road — 
full fifty fathoms high — spanning the Curral das Eomeiras, 
" Fold of the Pilgrhnesses," which the English call " The 
Little Corral." It is nothing but the ravine-head from 
which the Joao Gomez Torrent issues, a deep bay in the 
mountains, whose dizzy depths are broken by a project- 
ing tongue of land, and whose upper heights remind 
every visitor of Switzerland's 

1 ' hairy sides, 
With forest overgrown, grotesque and "wild." 

We were fated to descend from the mount by a novel 
conveyance. The sledge is like a long dismounted 
dickey, supplied with rollers ; externally made of basket- 
work, and furnished inside with light calico cushions. 
This Carro is guided by a man on each side holding 
a handle projecting from the dickey, and in the off 
hand grasping a leather thong attached to what one 
would call the footboard. It will contain two, but 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 43 

of course the owner prefers to accommodate one only. 
We took our seats together, lit our cheroots, and 
presently felt ourselves progressing with a decent 
velocity. The distance, two miles, has been made 
in seven minutes : we took, however, twelve. The 
youths ran alongside of the sledge till they came 
to a straiter and steeper pitch, when they hung on 
behind as does the guide to his horse's tail, and the 
sharp angles are passed by slewing round the vehicle 
with the thong nearest the wall. The pace, though not 
rivalling that of the Montagues Eusses or the Mont- 
morency Cone, is at least exciting : at times, however, 
there are accidents. In the town I met a gentleman 
who had but lately broken his collar-bone. As is the 
rule of the road generally, when a fall is in prospect, one 
must never attempt to get out or to protrude a limb, the 
only way is to find good foot purchase and to hold 
on like grim death. Descending, we passed through a 
market-place, at whose neat wooden stalls a motley crowd 
had assembled. Fish, of which ichthyologists reckon 
186 species, was there in plenty : its metallic glowing 
lustre was finer than any feather. We saw cages full of 
poultry — the gallo is an institution here, well bred, and 
a clever fighter ; also meat and vegetables in abundance. 
The cleanliness of the market was a notable contrast to 
Covent Garden. 

The usual nasal drawling sing-song Portuguese of 
the colonies was varied by the ca para mim } hoi ! and 
the ca-ca-ca-od of the ox-drivers, as they ploughed 
their way through the crowd, the grumbling of the 



U WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Anglo-Saxon, and the villanous English of the touters 
and curio vendors, who followed us like disturbed wasps. 
We met in the market-place all our shipmates, sur- 
rounded by the hungry concourse. Of the passengers 
was an ancien, militaire, a chief constable, going to 
Sierra Leone; his glance at the mob, and his style of 
working through by an almost imperceptible movement 
of the shoulder, told of the practised "bobby." As 
9 A.H. was approaching, we returned to Hollway's for 
breakfast. 

The entrance of the hotel was more than usually 
crowded with man, woman, and child. Every one 
visiting Madeira is expected to buy at least the fol- 
lowing articles : — 

1 chair of willow wicker-work, like that of Scinde, 
price g2 each — to the stranger. 

1 pair of buff leather slippers, §0*75 : or shoes, $2 ; 
or boots, §3. 

1 carapuca, or funnel cap, Is. 

1 walking-stick of coffee wood, or other stuff, brought 
to the island, but proclaimed indigenous. 

Also a ruler, a box, a card-case, a paper-knife, and 
sundry fancy baskets, composed of peeled broomstick — 
utterly useless all, and by no means ornamental. 

If Caius be good to Caia, he will also lay in — 

1 shawl, black silk net, £3. 

1 white thread do. £1. 

1 dozen doylies, $1, but more generally 5<s. 

1 do. pincushion doylies, 18$. 

Feather flowers, any price from Is. to £l. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 45 

And he may invest ad libitum in children's frocks, scol- 
loped and belaced, horsehair chains, and gold rings, 
whose only merit is that three are contained in one 
very ugly one. The supernumerary waiter will assuredly 
have a large stock on hand, and look aggrieved, ac- 
cording to the custom of his class, if not patronised. 
As an old traveller, I avoided him, buying flowers from 
the nuns, and shawls, with etceteras, from M. A. C. 
Bibeiro, No. 1a, Eua da Carreira, where there is little 
doubt the economist was " done," as he deserved. 

At the hotel we had an English breakfast, and I find 
entered in my journal : — " The meal was as good as the 
island could afford, but c bad is the best ' here. Ah ! 
where shall I fly to escape from that British beefsteak ? 
that British beefsteak which follows me from Indus to 
the Pole — which will not learn to be filet, like its 
Trench younger brother, the Biftek, and which still 
disdains ' fine herbs/ At Madeira it is qualified, how- 
ever, by the host's remark, that we shall not see another 
for many a day." But then, you see, I was writing 
somewhat fresh from the Cabinets of M. Philippe, and 
.remembering the portly form of M. Pascal. Now I 
remember that beefsteak with feelings of pleasure \ what 
a contrast it was to a leg of old goat, or to the lean, 
stringy fowls winch give men scurvy in introtropical 
Africa, and how succulent it will taste should Eate ever 
conduct me once more to Madeira. 

The fish was bream — bad ; * the figs, green and purple, 

* This cannot be said of all the fish. The tunny is seldom given to 
strangers, yet with a sauca piquante it is excellent "once in a way;" 



46 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

were hard and unripe. Fruit is a failure at Madeira, 
because it is rarely grafted, and no one cares for 
" natural selection." Apples taste like pears, pears like 
cotton made easy. The oranges are tolerable, but thick- 
skinned : the little mandarin, here called Tangerine, is 
admirable. Flowers are perennial, and, as in California, 
they lose their charm : the eye becomes surfeited with 
a continual bouquet, toujours perdrix. Some, as the 
fuchsia, the geranium, and the dahlia, are of species that 
have died out of English horticulture for the last twenty 
years, at least ever since science took those flowers in 
hand and bred them like racehorses. Coffee is grown on 
the lowlands near Funchal, and the Portuguese no 
doubt drink good cafe au lait; but your Englishman 
must imbibe English coffee, with water utterly dispro- 
portioned to the quantity of bean. Butter, as in all hot 
climates, is utterly vile : I should prefer the graveolent 
palm-oil. Milk is poor : cow's milk must be used 
by the Anglo-Saxon ; goat's milk ought to be. There 
are poached eggs and boiled eggs, but where is the 
garlicked omelette ? 

AYe inquired, as travellers will do, about tobacco* 
At Portuguese Madeira it is infamous, and the penny 
cigars are preferred to the more expensive ; in Spanish 
Tenerife it is possible to lay in a tolerable supply. 

the sword-fish, despite its name, is not unpalatable ; those who like 
conger eels will find them here ; the herring and mackerel are first- 
rate ; and never even at Leghorn has man tasted better red mnllet. 
This "woodcock of the ocean" is small but peculiarly good — by all 
means insist on salmonete for breakfast. 



A BAY AT MADEIBA. 47 

Portugal works her way at a snail's pace towards free- 
trade fare. The manufacture and sale of worked tobacco 
has been farmed out to a monopolising private company 
in Europe. Too timid to throw off protection, the go- 
vernment has tabooed the growing of tobacco to Madeira, 
which might perhaps coin gold by a growth like that of 
the Yuelta Abajo, Habana; consequently, the Lusitanian 
lieges are condemned to pay high prices for bad articles. 
All the civilised world is behindhand touching tobacco. 
It has, like the Quaker's historical dog, gotten a bad 
name. One-idea'd hygeists, followers of the "Misocapnic 
Solomon," have persuaded the world that it is a slow 
poison, and politicians that it is a luxury,, and, there- 
fore liable to unlimited mulct. Even the old statesman 
will warn his hearers against the tobacco-shop, and — 
with the history of the East before him — tell them that 
it is " provocative of thirst " and an " excuse for idle- 
ness," which necessarily leads to drinking. " No stimu- 
lant, except gin," we hear, " is so dangerously abused" 
— the last word reads in two ways. Once it was Holy 
Herb, Jierle a la Heine, Catlierinaire, and so on ; there- 
fore, inasmuch as 

''Regis ad exemplum totus componitur or bis," 

all followed royal example. Now it is "the weed." 
King James and Napoleon the Great abused it to man- 
kind, because it did not suit their stomachs : the mighty 
Conqueror preferred a lonbonniere to a Hague. In Eng- 
land, those who do not "indulge," feel an I-know- 
not-what moral superiority over, and from their lofty 
position look down upon, those who do. Legislators, 



48 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

especially in later life, cut tobacco, and wag the head 
at it. Wine is the milk of old age, and old age has 
lately, in England at least, greatly reduced the duty 
upon its milk : but the tax upon tobacco remains in all 
its pristine enormity. Trance retains her vile tabac de 
o-egie, which you must smoke unless you can get on 
with bell-ropes or rattans; and her Benefices de la 
Regie are, not including one-sixth for smuggling, some 
150,000,000 of francs per annum. Italy also makes it 
a monopoly. In England it bears the unconscionable 
duty of 3s. 9d. per lb., producing a wicked item of 
revenue, nearly 6,000,000/. And why? If tobacco be 
a luxury, so is wine, and please let us know where neces- 
saries, comforts, and luxuries show the dividing link. If 
free trade in wine be profitable, why this quasi Maine- 
law for tobacco ? Or does a paternal and patriarchal 
Government, which could not raise, Russian-fashion, 
its revenue by encouraging "useless, superfluous, and 
selfish expenses/' lay it on so thick in order to prevent 
us from spoiling our digestions, like naughty boys, 
by too much smoke ? If that be the idea, it should 
be dismissed ; these heavy dues, by excluding a cheap 
and tolerable article, give us only a bad and an un- 
wholesome supply. Moderately good Havannahs now 
fetch M. } Manillas, 4d. ; thus the latter, which cost 
in India from forty to fifty rupees per 1000, here 
approach that sum in pounds sterling. The fact is, that 
those six millions of pounds sterling are enough to blind 
the eyes of a budget-maker. But some day will arise a 
hard-smoking Chancellor of the Exchequer, who will 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 49 

quarter the tax, and 'double his gains by the- loss.* Our 
fraternity will presently become a majority ; one year 
witnesses an attempt to introduce smoke into all except 
the coffee-room, drawing-room, and card-room of a 
club ; another sees a long " writing to the ' Times/ " 
Let us hope, illustrious smokers and kind brethren of the 
pipe, soon to see that happy day. " Smoke is great, and 
it will prevail." 

After breakfast we chatted with certain habitues of the 
place. At present there are only the last year's birds, 
from eighty to a hundred strangers, mostly English, and 
a first batch of some hundreds is expected in September. 
There are a few Trench, and about eighty Germans, 
whose drawling English is perpetually heard in street 
and room. The visitors, especially the Anglo-Saxon, do 
not mix well with the Portuguese. Last year an effigy 
of Pontius Pilate was, according to custom, hung at Loo 
rock ; that effigy was, I am told, an English soldier in 
English uniform. The Madeiro-Lusitanians had ascer- 
tained that Madam Britannia was at the bottom of the 
Scourge of Rome's troubles, and adopted that way of dis- 
playing a sound, but a somewhat incurious, indignation. 
These spectacles, now waxing obsolete in Prance and Italy, 
are still favourites in these old and crippled colonies. At 
Tenerife I heard of a late Judas, about the size of a 

* Since the above was written, the Chancellor of the Exchequer has 
reduced the duty on what the trade is pleased to call foreign " segars " 
from 9s, 5\d. to 5s. per lb. ; on snuff from 9s. 5\d. to 3s.; and on 
other manufactured tobaccos to 4s. This is, at least, one little step in 
the right direction. 

VOL. I. E 



50 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

rnizen-mast, hung in jack boots, with his stomach full of 
cats : the especial fun was to watch the action of Gri- 
malkin when Iscariot was consigned to the flames.* On 
the other hand, St. Peter lashed, like an outrigger 
between two boats, walked the waters like a thing of 
life — a feat, by-the-bye, in which, if I rightly remember, 
when alive he signally failed. 

It were a long and intricate subject to investigate the 
cause of the Englander's unpopularity abroad. I can but 
throw down a little heap of reasons to which everyone 
can add as many more. Individually, — of course, this 
is not said of the cosmopolitan English gentleman, 
who, with perfect tact, everywhere preserves his 
nationality, whilst ever respecting that of others, — he 
is disliked, collectively hated. He delights in revers- 
ing the process upon his French neighbour, whom 
he admires collectively, individually despises. The 
phenomenon partly arises from the enormous national 
self-esteem. " Great Britaine," says old Herbert, 
" contains the summe and abridge of all sorts of 
excellencies, meeting here like parallels in their proper 
centre." And were we not told t'other day at Dover 
that we are the first nation in the world ? 'Whilst the 
vanity of foreign writers more humanely praises them- 
selves, English pride abuses others. Partly, too, it comes 

* Mrs. Elizabeth Murray, the authoress of "Sixteen years of an 
Artist's Life in Morocco, Spain, and the Canary Islands," declares 
that she saw Judas burned on Easter Day, in the Plaza de la Con- 
stitution Orotava, attired in "black cutaway coat, yellow vest and 
pantaloons, with Hessian boots." The scene which she dt scribes 
is that of ' ' driving out the devil " on the Gold Coast. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 51 

from geographical peculiarities. The Englishman is an 
islander, toto divisus orhe } an abscissed joint, like the Jew, 
of the great human bodj. He is not like a continental, 
and he has a sneaking fondness for other islanders. He 
has his prejudices — unless his blood be very thin, — 
his eccentricities, his bizarreries, his hobby-horses, his 
whiinsy-wharnsies. He is wedded to the homeliness of 
home. Now he fights for the slave-carrying trade. 
Anon, in the fury of his emancipativeness, he would 
gladly convert a garden of sugar, tobacco, and cotton, 
into a howling waste, a Great Dismal Swamp, starving 
a million of his own people, and three and a half 
millions of his congeners. Collectively he is no fa- 
vourite, because the precedent of his policy is natural 
egotism, its succedent is success, a worse fault to those 
who lose by it than his selfishness. We cannot expect 
our cousins, the irritable Yankees, or the poor devil 
Germans, to love the rich head of the house of John 
Bull. We cannot expect rivals, who have striven with 
us and failed, Spain, Portugal, and Holland — once first 
rate now third rate powers — to bear our greatness 
without a look askance. We must not expect friend- 
ship from those whom, like the Ionian Republic, we have 
insulted by benefits. Those who are fighting with us for 
the world — Erance and Eussia — will not easily pardon 
our sins of solidarity. Nationally, as long as the English- 
man entrenches himself within his own limits, depends 
upon his own resources, and calls all his neighbours 
Racha, he is strong and great; he is completely 
demoralised by the lesson that he, single-handed, is not 

E 2 



52 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

equal to three foreigners. And not to 
important side of the question, the Englishman has 
been a somewhat noisy though moderate apostle of 
Liberty, and the father of institutions which, by their 
success at home, commend themselves to neighbouring 
nations, amongst whom they would be failures, because 
lacking the simplicity and the vigour of despotism. 
By countenancing progress, and by discountenancing 
political subdivision, he commends himself to the 
moderate, who are equally opposed to remaining 
stationary and to sweeping changes in society. Ex- 
treme partisans, of course, hold bim tlieir greatest 
enemy, and as tbey are the loudest speakers, he is 
abused from Lisbon to St. Petersburg. 

Our colloquy ended with a stroll en masse about the 
streets, where the well-to-do population eyed us with no 
friendly glance. The stranger-mob raises the price, and 
diminishes the quantity, besides affecting the quality of 
everything. It spoils the country to the countrymen. 
A servant who has taken wages from an English family 
will seldom return to and more rarely abide in a Portu- 
guese Morgado's house. The swells whom we met had 
the usual Portuguese priggishness and formality of dress 
and look ; regulation whiskers, dating from Georgius 
Tertius his day ; back swallow-tails; " skimpy v waist- 
coats, and white pantaloons. The ecclesiastics were 
mostly clad in French attire and the Jesuit cap, not 
with the vast shovel hat like that of Canada, which 
made the facetious prelate announce their Spanish emi- 
nences as having arrived at the Vatican in their canoes. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 53 

They have a kindly look, and I saw none of the 
offensive jauntiness of the young Sicilian abbate, who 
can never pass a bonnet without peering Milesian-like 
under its periphery. It is understood, however, that 
their morals are no better than they should be; the 
pretty housekeeper is the rule, and an Englishwoman 
who, as a Roman Catholic, should deem it her duty to 
bow to every frock, would soon collect an enamoured 
tail. The shops are superior to what we expected. At 
a chemist's I obtained all the materials for making 
arsenical soap. Another shop supplied excellent photo- 
graphs ; the climate renders them far superior to those 
of the North. The mystic letters P.Y.A.B. — Pad vinho 
aguardiente bom — upon certain sheds in the Travessas, 
or cross streets, attracted ours, like other people's, 
attention. The hens were mostly tied to old shoes, a 
cock was seen garlanded with flowers, a turkey followed 
his master like a dog, and the women sat in trellises 
and arbours staring and taking the air. We met 
chemhi faisant one of our Germans at the bottom of a 
hammock, wrapped up, despite the heat, in coat and 
shawls ; he was dying at railway pace. We had many 
a gossip, and more than once saw the Caccia del 
Mediterraneo. We bought the indispensable chaussures 
from an Italian rascal, a fellow so far gone in cheating 
that he cheated, as cheats will, himself. Then he 
cheapened chairs, Carapucas, and grey canary birds, 
uncivilized animals far dearer here and in the Canaries 
than in London or Bruges. Madeira wrens (R. 
Madeirensis) are the only birds peculiar to the island 



54 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

and Machetes the only instruments. The latter is to 
the guitar what the piccolo is to the flute. It is, 
however, tuned in a peculiar way : the two upper 
strings have, like most Eastern musical implements, 
intervals of thirds,* whilst the lower have fourths. 
Like the guitar racle by the Barber of Seville, the 
accompaniment is composed of simple chords, the words 
are modinhas, pretty, and affecting. It is peculiar to the 
small " remains of the submerged continent Atlantis,* 
and is best heard in the Canaries, especially Tenerife. 

Tired of marching about the town in brigade, I 
chartered a youth and set out, to speak Hibernically, 
solus. Passing by the secularised convent, we entered 
the adjoining street of San Francisco, and called at the 
office of the agents to the A. S. S. Company, Messrs. 
John Blandy and Sons, who kindly cashed for me 
some Bank of England notes, and introduced me to 
a variety of visitors. I could not but observe that the 
sane residents long settled at Madeira are thin, pale, 
sub-green-tinted like East Indians, and wearing the 
regular tropical look. However fit may be the Madeiran 
atmosphere for men with one lung or a bittock of a 
lung, it is by no means so well suited to those with a 
healthy pair. And the fact is that the English consti- 
tution cannot thrive without a winter. 

Remained the convent to " do," though not with 

* Which of course produces the minor key. This guitarette is an 
especial favourite with the Madeirense, who are said even to talk in it. 
English visitors sometimes attempt it, but as they expect to be perfect 
after a dozen lessons — it takes about five years — they rarely succeed. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 55 

that morbid feeling which leads the Englishman to the 
nunnery and the slave market. Ascending a neat hill, 
which seemed to be nearly an angle of 35°, the youth 
and I turned to the left, entered a large paved court, 
procured a key from the tournoir, opened a door, 
ascended a ricketty staircase, and found ourselves in a 
whitewashed room. Its long length was garnished with 
a shaky table and a pair of poor chairs, whilst a stout 
double grating allowed communication with the myste- 
rious apartments within. It was Goa over again. Pre- 
sently appeared two " fair prisoners," aged ladies habited 
after the rule of St. Francis, the founder of the Sisters 
of Charity. One was tallish, and showed no slight 
remnants of beauty ; she was, in fact, a " splendid ruin," 
as a friend of mine terms himself. I had the grace not 
to ask her if she was the Sister Maria Clementina, who, 
about the time of my birth (See " Six Months in the 
^West Indies, in 1825," by the brave « Henry Nelson 
Coleridge,") was the kindler of every traveller's enthu- 
siasm, the theme of their praise, and the peg to which 
they affixed their sentimentalism, upon nuns and 
nunneries. The real Clementina subsequently appeared, 
spoke pretty Portuguese, and probably would not have 
been recognised by the ardent man who wrote " Header ! 
if your whim or your necessities should lead you to 
Madeira, go for my sake to the nunnery of Santa 
Clara," or by the amorous midshipman who, as Captain 
Alexander tells us, would kiss her finger-tips. 

Flowers of sorts, roses, camelias, fuchsias, jasmines, 
and pretty wreaths, were passed through the wicket and 



56 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

placed upon the table for my inspection. They are 
made of feathers, and they constitute, with wax fruit and 
sweetmeats, especially candied citron, the industry of the 
* poor Clares " of Santa Clara. I bought a few flowers, 
and ended with asking the Sister Clementina about the 
state of the house. She informed me that when the 
Jesuits were expelled in 1758, the sisterhood was also 
suppressed, and allowed to re-enter the world ; that many 
had returned to their seclusion ; that novices cannot now 
be admitted ; that the order was becoming extinct, and 
that in process of time Government will take possession 
of the church property. Meanwhile this and other 
"poor Clares" are allowed to spend several months of 
the year in their secular homes — a sensible practice which 
I would recommend to Bayswater and Birmingham. 

Still full of Captain Basil Hall's voyages and travels, 
a book which is the delight of most boys' non-age, I 
could not leave Madeira without a glance at the burial 
ground. Leaving the convent and walking westwards, Ave 
stood upon a plateau under the Quinta Lomellina, below 
the Castello do Pico, and enjoyed a fine bird's-eye 
view. Here near the sea-level the vine mostly flourishes. 
Below us was the English church and chapel, built in 
1822, in the Eua da Bella Vista: the laws of Portugal 
did not allow it Christian architecture, so it appears in 
the shape of an Ionic temple, caricatured and minia- 
tured, a truly gratifying national spectacle. Our 
schismatical fellow-countrymen have not failed to 
import into Madeira liberty of conscience and right of 
private judgment. The residents have naturally been 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 57 

divided into high church, low church, and no church, 
and would not worship in the same ten-acre field ; 
whilst those who advocate the " old priest writ large," 
of course preferred the Free Kirk to the Government 
Chapel. 

A ten minutes' walk led us to the Cemetery, where we 
rang for admission. The grated door was opened by the 
wife of the porter, who occupies a hut-lodge on the right 
of the entrance. A dwarf garden of geraniums, roses, 
datura, lavender, heliotropes, oleanders, and other 
strongly scented flowers, led to the Cities of the Dead, 
which are two in number. The newer or Strangers' 
Cemetery was bought in 180S, during the adminis- 
tration of General Beresford, to accommodate his 4000 
soldiers. It must not be forgotten, that Madeira was 
a British conquest; and that like Java, Sicily, Goree, 
and others, it was returned to the original proprie- 
tors. And yet, talking of these renditions, a French 
author is silly enough to say, " pourtant le leopard 
fait se /aire la part die lion." This burial-place is a 
mere yard, girt, like its right-hand neighbour, by a 
tall enceinte, which suggests the idea of Spike Island. 
It is overpopulated like Madeira generally; the walls 
teem with votive tablets, and the graves are in un- 
pleasant proximity. There are but few monuments 
with any pretensions to sculpture, and those few are 
exceedingly bad. An addition to the strangers' ground 
was bought in 1852 for £2211 ; it is entered by a neat 
archway, and is still partially unoccupied. It will not, 
however, long be empty : out of a floating population of 



58 WANDEBIXGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

300 to 500 English the deaths are 12 to 15 annually. 
Travellers make these places also pegs for their senti- 
mentalisms : to me they appeared inspiring as a cemetery 
in King William Street, City. 

Descending the hill seawards, we passed on the right 
Laranjeira, the orangery, — the time-honoured tree that 
bore the golden apples of the Hesperides has disap- 
peared from it, — being the Residents and Merchants' 
Cemetery. Before 1764, Protestants and other heretics 
dying at Madeira were either huddled into a hole in 
the streets or were thrown, as at Maskat, on the dung- 
hill, or into the sea ; and even after that date their 
funerals recpiired a guard of soldiery. Xow there is 
full toleration, even extended to a people which have 
not learned to be "tolerant of intolerancy.'" The very 
Hebrews, who are much despised by the Madeirans, have 
a small plot of ground to the eastward of the city on the 
way to Santa Cruz. It is named the House of the 
Living ; however, it contains the dead, and a chronograph 
from Deuteronomy embodies the date — a.m. 5611 = 
a.d. 1851. 

I had but little time to visit the Xew Road, one of the 
triumphs of local engineering. It is classic ground, 
leading in the direction taken by the Zargo's boats, and 
it will after some years abut at Cabo Girao — Cape Turn- 
again — where the old governor's first exploration ended. 
The cost was about 9000^, and the levelness of the 
line makes it the Rotten Row, as the Carreira is the 
Regent Street, of Funchal. The most suggestive part 
is the view of the Telegraph Hill, and the little hum- 



A BAY AT MADEIRA. 59 

mocks of San Martinho, which are so conspicuous from 
the roadstead. The same formations as those outlying 
Puerto Orotava and Santa Cruz, Tenerife; they are 
" parasitic cones " to this pleiocene tertiary volcano, and 
they open to the south and south-west, showing the 
prevailing wind to be the north-eastern. Another 
reason prevented my visiting the " Convent o de Bom 
Jesus," where for §10 per mens, a refractory wife may 
be confined by her husband, — this exemplary institution 
may not be openly visited by my sex. 

My last pilgrimage was to the spot where Christopher 
Columbus is supposed to have lived when he resided, 
probably for health, at Funchal, during the intervals 
of his trading voyages. In 1851 his house near the 
Carmo was, like Shakspeare's tree, impiously destroyed ; 
two other localities have claimed the honour, but 
hitherto with little effect. That in the Eua do Esmeraldo 
was once a custom-house; but travellers avoid discon- 
necting it with Columbus, or it would be pulled down. 
The great explorer married, it will be remembered, the 
daughter of Perestrello, or Palestrello, one of the early 
navigators, who subsequently became governor of Porto 
Santo, and after his father-in-law's death he became 
possessed of certain charts and pilot's memoranda of 
Atlantic voyages, which sent him forth to find a new 
world. His history, metliinks, has still to be written, 
without the "furor Uograpldcus" — the Lues Boswelliana, 
as Lord Macaulay called it. - * 

* A hourje occupied by Christopher Columbus, when settled before 
his voyage to the New World, is also shown at Gomera, where he 



CO WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Returning in red-hot haste to the hotel, I found that 
the mails had been ordered on board at noon; con- 
sequently my companions were in the state of gulls 
preparing for the annual migration, incapable of a 
moment's inaction. At Mr. Holl way's I met the Captain- 
General, alias the Governor of Sierra Leone, who had 
temporarily changed air. A visit in England to the 
late Governor of Cape Coast Castle, who had spent some 
seven years upon the Gold Coast and elsewhere, had 
prepared me for not finding these regions quite so black 
as they are painted, and here was a fresh proof. I saw a 
hale and hearty looking man, who could not have been 
better preserved had he served his time between England 
and India, instead of between the T\ T est Indies and the 
African coast. The Governor strongly advised me to 
await three months of acclimatisation before entering 
upon malarious and laborious travel in the rivers and the 
creeks. M. Talleyrand's celebrated sentiment, "monjeune 
ami pas cle zele" should here be the rule of action ; too 
much activity at first starting leads to grief. But what 

refitted the "Nina," reunited his three ships on 11th August, and 
resumed his cruise on the 7th October, 1492. It was during a 
previous residence at Gromera that the Andalusian sailor Alonzo 
Sanchez di Guelva, who trafficked between that island and Madeira, 
died at his house. The legend is, that he had been carried by a gale 
to one of the West India islands, whence he returned with the only 
two survivors of his crew, and dying, communicated his distances 
and bearings to his host. There is nothing improbable in this, and 
the accident has happened more than once since. Yet it hardly 
detracts from the discoverer's fame. The epitaph still speaks the 
truth ; 

11 A Castilla y Leon, 
Kuevo mondo dio Colon.'* 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 61 

zealous man can refrain from zeal ? I was in the rivers 
a week after my arrival. 

At 1 p.m. the gun was fired, and Blue Peter was run 
up. With adieus, and without one particle of regret at 
leaving the " Happy Island/' I set out for the beach, 
escorted by a dwarf curiosity-vendor on my right, and 
on the other side an old beggar woman, who per- 
petually did cry, "For Amor de Bens ! " and " For sua 
saude ! " A boat was launched, I paid my shilling, and 
presently found the good ship Blackland's deck bristling 
with hollow wicker-work chairs. An hour afterwards 
we were dancing with the breeze outside the harbour, 
and long before twilight Erythia, alias — 

" Filha do Oceana 
Do undoso campo flor, gentil Madeira," 

had become a fading picture, a memory, a dream of 

the past. 

* * * * * 

I conclude the subject with a few notes concerning 
the island, firstly on its value as a Sanitarium, secondly 
with reminiscences of its deeply regretted, its never-to- 
be-forgotten wine. 

Medical men who have written upon the former sub- 
ject, and their name is legion, are agreed that the 
climate of Madeira is excellently adapted for pulmonary 
and bronchial complaints, — which form rather more than 
one-fifth, and less than one-eighth of the entire mortality 
in England, — rheumatism, scrofula, and zymotic diseases, 
and equally ill-suited for robust health, apoplex}', asthma, 
hepatic, nervous and dyspeptic affections. Children are 



62 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

said to expect at birth 89 years instead of 19 in Eng- 
land, but those of the English on the island appear 
degenerate. Instances are known of men who, with 
an occasional return to the land of their birth, have here 
outlived for many years maladies that in Europe would 
have been fatal to them. Raw wind and close sultry 
weather are equally rare, and Mr. Coleridge pretty justly 
said that " the seasons are the youth, maturity, and old 
age of a never-ending still- beginning spring." The dew, 
abundant upon the upper heights, is unknown near the 
sea : the fact is there is not cold enough to condense 
the moisture of the atmosphere. The philo-Madeiran 
scoffs at the idea of there being humidity in the air of 
the climate which notably belongs to the damp section. 
But where a country surrounded by water is 6000 feet 
high, is profusely irrigated, and moreover lies in the very 
course of the Gulf of Guinea stream, the evaporation 
must be great ; it is impossible to mistake the sensation 
of intense humidity at Eunchal, or of dryness at Tenerife 
after Madeira. It lies several degrees beyond the limits 
of the north-east trade winds ; but it has a scirocco or 
Harmattan,* called Leste, the E., or more correctly 
the E.S.E. wind opposed to the Embate. This Leste 
brings from the Sahara and the African interior, birds, 

* It was long before I could trace the etymology of this word. At 
length Dr. Horton's "Medical Topography of the West Coast of 
Africa " (London : John Churchill, 1859), was found to assert that it 
is derived from the Fanti Aharamanta — from aharaman, to blow, and 
ta, tallow or grease. But surely the latter element is unnecessary to the 
sense of the word ; moreover, according to Herr Missionary Zimmer- 
man, aharabata or ahalabata in the Ga language is a foreign word. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 63 

insects, and reddish dust. According to M. Ehrenburg 
the latter is composed of South American infusoria, 
which others again deny. Usually lasting three days, — 
it has been known to blow for forty — it is painfully high 
and dry, even after 300 miles of sea passage, and it 
disagrees terribly with many invalids. Unlike the coast, 
however, Madeira seldom suffers from it in spring or 
winter. The N.E. wind, the young beginning of the 
Trades, blows for seven out of the twelve months, it is 
dry and brings fine weather. N. W. is the snowy ; S.E. 
and S.W. the rainy, stormy, squally points. There are 
distinct sea-breezes and trovadas or land-breezes. As 
usual upon these mountainous formations, the wind 
blows from many quarters at once. Dr. Mason 
says that he has frequently seen three currents of 
wind affecting the clouds at the same time, whilst 
the vane indicated a fourth. The maximum differ- 
ence between the dry and wet bulb thermometers 
during the Leste has been 22 o, 50 (P.). The mercury 
averages throughout the year 64° to 66° (E.), and it 
never falls below 53° winch becomes uncomfortably 
cold, requiring fires, which, however, as in Piza of a 
more ancient date, are not nearly common enough. 
The annual mean of the barometer corrected for tem- 
perature and gravity is 30*092 inches; the wave is 
highest at 10 to 11 a.m. and 8 p.m. ; lowest at 7 a.m. 
and 4 p.m.* The minimum fall of rain recorded in books 
is 22*365 inches per annum; the maximum in six 

* The mercury stands so much higher in many parts of Madeira that 
the wording of English barometers must be altered. 



64 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

months has been 4T4, and the average ranges from 
29-82 to 30-62. The rains occur in spring and autumn, 
when they are sub-tropical, although the island is nearly 
10° N. of Cancer, leaving the air bright and genial. 
January and February, the latter especially, are the 
coldest and wettest, March and April are showery 
and windy, May alternately showery and fine ; the dry 
season sets in from that month to mid-September, when 
invalids are recommended to leave England. After 
this are the latter rains till the end of December. Snow 
rarely descends below 2500 feet above sea-level, it has 
at times fallen about the Mount Church, and is not un- 
known at Porto Santo. Twilight is almost as short as 
in the Tropics, and the longest exceeds the shortest day 
by only five hours. 

Nothing more fickle than the fashion of Sanitaria. 
In our fathers' days the Faculty sent its incurables, 
despite the fatal vent de Use and the mistral, to Mont- 
pellier. It soon contained 300 English families ; 
presently reduced to a few wine merchants and econo- 
mists. Succeeded Pisa, vitnperio delle genti, in point 
of laxativeness and deadly weariness; and Pau, of whom 
her native Bearnais said that the year had eight months 
of winter and four of inferno. At present Malaga and 
Torquay, which in mean daily range and humidity — the 
two desiderata — mainly resemble Madeira, are the reign- 
ing favourites ; and the great sanitaria of the future will 
be Algiers and Egypt. The Isle of Wood began to 
appear before the world in the days of Moquet (1601), 
who pronounced the air to be very sweet and temperate. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 65 

He was followed by various authors, Ovington (1689), 
Atkins (1720), Forster (1772), Dr. Fothergill (1775), 
Dr. Gourlay (1811), and Dr. Buxton (1817). Finally, 
in 1824, Dr. Heineken — himself a consumptive patient 
— established its reputation. Dr. Mittermaier thus sums 
up the advantages of Madeira: — 1. Equability of tempera- 
ture. 2. Purity of atmosphere and freedom from dust 
and miasmata. 3. The capability of residing on the 
island throughout the year. 4. The number of comforts 
and conveniences there procurable. 5. And last, The 
combination of the chief climatal conditions necessary 
for the recovery of health. Sir James Clark, a great 
authority in his day, gave it this high praise, "When we 
take into consideration the mildness of the winter — 20° 
warmer than in London and 12° than Italy or Provence 
— and the coolness of the summer — only 7° warmer than 
London and nearly 5° cooler than Italy and Provence — 
together with the remarkable equality of the temperature 
during the day and night, as well as throughout the 
year, — the mean annual range is only 14°, less than 
half of that of Rome and Pisa, Naples and Nice — we 
may safely conclude that the climate of Madeira is the 
finest in the northern hemisphere." 

Madeira, however, has, and ever will have, one terrible 
drawback besides extensive humidity. The ennui which 
it breeds is peculiar; it makes itself felt during a few 
hours' stay. Little islands are all large prisons : one 
cannot look at the sea without wishing for the wings of 
the swallow. This, with the usual sense of confine- 
ment, combines the feeling of an hospital, or a sick-bay, 



66 WAXDEPJXGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

and one soon sighs to escape from its dreary volcanic 
rocks. Game is well nigh shot off, except a few 
resident partridges and migratory quails in the lower 
altitudes, rabbits in the upper brushwood, and waterfowl, 
snipe, widgeon, coot, and teal near the shore. In the 
season there are balls, concerts, teafights ; out of the 
season, nothing. The theatre is built but rarely speaks ; 
the opera has to take root; the Turkish bath is un- 
known; indeed, there is not a bath on the island. 
Even the English club -rooms are closed at night. I 
should feel in such a place like a caged hawk ; or, 
to speak more classically, like a Prometheus with the 
Demon Despair gnawing at my heart. I could hardly 
bear to register meteorological observations for year after 
year, or to spend hours in peeping through the telescope 
found in every turret ; which appears to me tlieflaneufs 
only sedentary occupation here. Nostalgia is a disease 
as yet imperfectly recognised. The Highlanders in 
Jamaica died of u Lochaber no more ! " and many a 
rugged fellow, who would blush at the suspicion, is 
pining childlike for home and family. The only remedy 
— preventive there is none — is constant occupation of 
mind if not of body, and this Madeira cannot afford. 
The habitues declare the climate hostile to work. 

I must believe that despite vicinity to England — seven 
days and nineteen hours of steam, and cheapness of 
passage, 20/. first class — that Madeira will in the next 
generation be deserted for Egypt by all but purely 
phthisical invalids. There is that in the pure dry air 
of the Desert of which no green country can boast. 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 67 

And now of the wine that once delighted the world, 
So suddenly become an archaeological subject— all, alas ! 
food for the antiquarian ! 

The vine was introduced from Cyprus in 1425, and 
from Candia in 1445. It was not, however, actually cul- 
tivated till the opening of the sixteenth century, when 
the Jesuits planted the finest cuttings. The Francis- 
cans subsequently carried it to California. There were 
about forty different kinds used for making wine. The 
best were the rich and luscious, but uncertain and un- 
profitable, Maivazia Candida, or Malmsey; the soft and 
delicate Bual, a Burgundy grape greatly improved ; the 
dry light Sercial, the Amontillado of these wines, un- 
pleasant when new, and made of a Hock grape so 
unpalatable that the lizards are said to have avoided 
it; the Hermitage-like Tinta, or Madeira -Burgundy, 
whose high claret colour was produced by husks or skins 
fermented with their contents ; and finally, the Madeira 
of commerce. The latter was made from a variety of 
grapes, light and dark, mixed in the press. When new 
it was tinted like red wine and water which turned to a 
light amber hue. Age, heat, and moderate motion im- 
proved its flavour : the East and West India Madeira, 
so called after their voyages, were superior to the 
"London Particular." 

Atkins, in 1720, bought a pipe of Madeira at 
" Fonchiale," as it was called in Commodore Anson's 
time, for two half-worn suits, and another for three 
second-hand wigs. The pipe cost in its palmy days 
from 2ol. to 85/., the average being 50/., and the yearly 

f 2 



68 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

production amounted to 20,000 or 25,000 pipes, of 
which one third was exported, and produced 350,000^. 
per annum. In 1825 the export was 14,432 pipes: not 
bad for a thickly-inhabited mountainous spot, thirty 
miles (geographical) long, twelve and a half broad, about 
seventy-two in circumference, and not amounting to 
240 square miles; in fact, a quarter larger than the 
Isle of Wight. The decadence of Madeira commenced 
during the Napoleonic wars, when the merchants shipped 
inferior growths, which Cettes succeeded in imitating. 
Presently, an "illustrious person," a pet of Messrs. 
Moore and Thackeray, fearing the effect of Madeira 
upon his gout, assented to sherry as a more honest and 
wholesome beverage, whereupon his loyal subjects 
followed suit. The chief consumer of Madeira was 
once England : she was followed by Eussia and the 
United States, which, however, claim to have taken 
the lead. In St. Petersburg it is preferred even to 
champagne. In ]\ T ew York I have paid $11 for 
a bottle, and have seen men kill its aroma with ice 
instead of gently warming it like Lafitte. Under the 
sudden infliction of 1852, the terrible oid'mm TucTceri, 
the energy of the people fell, and in 1854 the export 
was reduced to 1800 pipes. 

Bather more than a pipe per acre was the average pro- 
duce of the land, four pipes being the maximum. The 
best soils, as at Fernando Po, were the decomposed 
basalts, and red and yellow tufas : the worst, stiff clays. 
The wines of the southern coast, immediately about 
Funchal, were the most highly prized, unequalled in 



A BAY AT MADEIRA. 69 

body, aroma, softness, and delicacy of flavour. The 
dryness of the soil in the lower regions, where the 
plant flourished best, made its cultivation peculiarly 
laborious. The field was seamed with trenches five to 
eight feet deep, extending down to the moist subsoil, 
and obviating the necessity of irrigation, even in the 
height of summer. Yine cuttings were then planted 
with the refuse vegetation of the intervals, cabbages and 
potherbs collected in the trenches, and buried as compost. 
During the second or third spring it was trained along a 
trellis, and in the north was married to the elm or chest- 
nut tree. For three years there was no produce, and 
after every twenty years the whole vineyard required 
replanting. The vendemmia, or vintage, which took 
place in September, earlier or later, as required by situa- 
tion, offered nothing peculiar. The picked grapes were 
foot-trodden in a clumsy wooden trough, or in a rude 
press ; after a single pressure with the lever, the 
produce was allowed to drain through a sieve which 
retained the stalks, and the must was stored in open 
vats, with an occasional stirring, for four or five weeks. 
After fermentation it was drawn off into fresh casks, clari- 
fied with eggs, gypsum, or bullock's blood, and prevented 
from acetating by adding to each pipe a gallon or two of 
Porto Santo, or St. Yincent brandy. Inferior wines 
were subjected in stores to a temperature of 140° to 150° 
(F.) } which, after six months, forced them to apparent 
age, but left with them a dry and smoky flavour. 

There are still a few pipes of Madeira upon the island, 
but whether more will be made " Bio lo sa." The 



70 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

merchants declare that the wine will recover, but not 
in their day. A remedy has, it is well "known, been 
found for the o'idium. The vine is washed and cleaned ; 
when the pulverulent white fungus appears, a little 
powdered sulphur is applied, and the sore is kept 
healthy by a sprinkling of lime. During the last year 
several vineyards gave a good yield ; but the Madeirans 
had applied themselves to a new industry, nrged 
apparently by the five sugar-loaves upon the colonial 
shield, and by the old boast that their island produces 
the best wine and water, wheat and sugar, in the world. 
The cane had been introduced in early days from the 
Mediterranean, Prince Henry sent it from Sicily, but 
competition with Jamaica and her slave-labour soon 
reduced the mills from 120 to three. The hope of once 
more being successful revived, but it is now again 
decaying. Labour costs thirty cents a day, and the 
Portuguese does not work like a Louisiana contraband. 
Sugar cannot be produced under 4J. per lb., and 
the retail price of the native growth is 6d. Again, 
machinery is most expensive, and venture is small. 
Could it be reduced by half it would pay ; now, it will 
not. The best use would be rum distilling for the 
people's use. The sugar land is limited; the upper 
extreme of its cultivation on the southern side may be 
estimated at 1,000 feet. Finally, the cane exhausts 
the soil, it requires water, and, what it can seldom 
obtain, large quantities of manure. It is evident that 
Madeira cannot compete with Cuba at present, or with 
the free British colonies, which, in another score of- 



A DAY AT MADEIRA. 71 

years, must drive Cuba out of the market^ force her to 
import, not to export, her sweets. Another industry 
is the cochineal insect, for whose growth the cactus 
(0. Tana), which overruns the ground, is well adapted. 
But this branch is decaying even in Tenerife, through 
the rise of Magenta, which will extinguish cochineal as 
effectually as Aspromonte did Garibaldi. Yet Madeira, 
despite all these losses and disappointments, is richer 
than she was in the days of the wine traffic. The 
English alone spend some '60,0001. to 40,000£ per 
annum in Funchal. 

There are still a few pipes of Madeira in the island, I 
have said. The merchants sell three brands — one at 
SOL, the other at 100L, and the best at 1101. per pipe. 
The pipe, however, is small measure — 92 gallons (= 45 
dozen), whilst that of sherry is 108, and of port 115. 
The bottle, untainted by Cettes, costs $3 to $5. 

It is a right melancholy fact — a consideration which I 
would commend to all " thinkers" — that both wine and 
tobacco are, unlike other articles of consumption, retro- 
grading rather than progressing in quality, whilst the 
price is becoming ruinous. We remember good Cognac 
at 5 francs a bottle ; what is it now ? If things proceed 
as at present, what shall our grandsons or even ourselves, 
as grandsires, drink ? What will there be to smoke ? 
With which portentous subject for consideration I con- 
clude the reflections engendered by a day at Madeira. 



CHAPTER III. 

A DAY AT TENERIFE. 



2nd September. 



" No place appeared to her more fitted to dissipate melancholy and 
restore peace to the perturbed mind than Teneriffe." 

Alex, von Humboldt. 

" In Tenerife, for a time brief, 
I wandered all around, 
Where shady bowers and lively flowers 
Spontaneously abound. 

" Where posies rare perfume the air 
In festoons o'er your head, 
Brave sheep and cows in pastures browse 
Without remorse or dread." 

Lines by a West African Poet. 

"Prom fair Madeira's purple coast we turned/' 
having there left our stewardess and our little band of 
consumptives. The Madeirans, like the Pisans, com- 
plain that strangers expect the climate to make for them 
new lungs, hence the populousness of the cemeteries. 
The invalids, being all foreigners, had given us scanty 
trouble : as a rule, the Madeira-bound English are 
a bore. The natural national fierceness of the islanders 
is exasperated by ill health, and bad temper finds a vent 
upon fellow-passengers. They object to "Palm-oil 
ruffians " or " Coast lambs/' as supercargos and skippers 
are politely termed, coming between the wind and their 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 73 

nobility. Thougli they can hardly treat civil and 
military officials, home-returning, quite so cavalierly, 
they will complain with all their half lungs that the 
ship is made a "sick-bay." They have endless griev- 
ances : to mention only one, the proprietors of the 
A. S. S. line have been so troubled with correspondence 
concerning naked lights and lucifer matches, that it is 
hardly possible to obtain fire for a cigar. After leaving 
Madeira, our party was reduced to four divisions, viz., 
the official at the first table, and the commercial, the 
slaver, and the negro composing the starboard mess. 

We were borne from the Isle of Wood with a stiff 
breeze, though not yet a trade wind ; and the current 
usually marked southerly, gave us also westing. We 
are still in that branch of the Guinea Gulf stream which 
is to Madeira what its Caribbean congener is to Great 
Britain. Our coal was composed of comminuted dust, 
unmoulded, too, making progress painfully slow; 
and decks very unclean. A small dark cloud was 
pointed out to us as representing the Salvagens or Sal- 
vages. They are three desert rocks between the Purpu- 
rean Islands and the Canaries, or more correctly, 100 
miles north of the latter, and therefore belonging to 
the Canarian group. The largest, which may be from 
four to five statute miles in circumference, is called, 
from its circular body and conical head, the Grand 
Piton, or Screw Ring; the second, one or two miles 
round, is, for the same reason, known as the Petit Piton. 
The proprietorship is vested in a Punchalese family. 
[Formerly the larger island was stocked with cattle, it is 



74 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

now a rabbit warren, and hardly cultivable. The stock 
having been plundered, the owners gathered orchilla or 
uzella, useful for litmus, and barilla, which supplies the 
best alkali ; but these also failed. The rocks still sup- 
port puffins (P. Major, locally called Cagarra, properly 
meaning a small gull), which afford fat, feathers, and 
salted meat for the Madeiran market. These, and 
the islands to the south, were doubtless connected with 
Africa by low land, and probably with Europe by 
Gibraltar, till the convulsions which indented the nor- 
thern shores of the Mediterranean, and drained the 
ocean for the North African Sahara, submerged those 
more level tracts that maintained the communication, 
and converted the rocky headlands into islands. The 
ichthyology of the seas, like that of the islands, lying 
north and south of the Salvagens, is interesting and 
complicated, belonging to the Moroccan coast. 

On the afternoon of Sunday, the 1st of September, we 
sighted from afar the thick dark cloud, whose loom ter- 
rified the early voyagers in these mysterious waters, and 
which we shall meet again at Fernando Po and Cama- 
roons. Here a north-east wind, laden with the vapours 
of the Atlantic, impinges upon the rocky flanks of 
Tenerife, and deflected upwards, is condensed in a 
shroud of heavy mist, though not so heavy as at Ma- 
deira. Sailors are mostly superstitious, and magic islands 
were inventions natural as sea-serpents and Plying 
Dutchmen. St. Borondon or San Brandao* has repeatedly 

* He voyaged with. S. Maclovio or Machutes, vulgarly called S. 



A BAY AT TENERIFE. 75 

been seen, and respectable men, " San Borodonistas "• 
they were called, have sworn to landing — a storm is an 
invariable consequence — on islands as apocryphal as 
Tasso's Enchanted Ground, or our less poetical Fiddlers' 
Green. The Nubian geographer, writing of the Third 
Climate, says : — In this sea is an island of sheep, 
which is large, and covered with a dark cloud, in 
which island are innumerable sheep, but small, and 
their flesh extremely bitter to the taste, and unfit 
for food.'" On the peak of Corvo, westernmost of 
the Azores, stood, they say, a mounted man, with 
one hand on the pommel of the saddle and the other 
ever pointing westward; it sounds like the " Thousand 
and One Nights." At the Canary group an eighth 
island has been dreamed of, and at the treaty of Evora, 
concluded in 1519, Portugal ceded to Spain the right of 
conquering Illia nab Tnibada, or Encuhierta, the "Un- 
found Island : " in 1526 an expedition sought it, but 
of course in vain. Similar cases are Delos, that never 
stood still, the Island of St. Matthew, mentioned by 
De Barros, and the Seven Glorious Cities of the Por- 
tuguese, founded by the seven Bishops who fled after the 
defeat of Don Roderick — one was discovered by a clever 
navigator, and the people asked him if the " Moslem 
invaders were still in the Peninsula." It is hardly to be 
doubted that the mariners were deceived by some effect 
of refraction, such as the Eata Morgana, or the Hartz 
Mountain Spectre. Moreover, the perpetual gloom 

Malo, and tliey discovered the country by bringing to life the giant 
Mildum or Milduo. 



76 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

hovering over the real islands, especially when wooded, 
would prepare the curious to see land in any more 
persistent cloud upon the horizon. We have still 
mariners in Ireland and Northern Scotland who 
believe in " San-Borodonisom." O. Brazile, or Hy 
Brazil," seen by the people of Arran, and, like 
Painters' Wives' Island, placed in some unexplored 
corner of the ocean, is a case in point ; and at times 
a rock, like Bockall, the new cod fishery, is found to 
exist, which makes us doubt if man has yet exhausted 
all discovery even in comparatively beaten tracks. 

The far-famed Peak is rarely seen from the north-east ; 
at the distance of about fifty miles, it appeared as a 
lumpy, ogee-shaped cone, in no wise remarkable, but 
looking like a low triangular cloud, by reason of its 
whiteness, which is said to be caused by decomposed 
vitreous porphyritic lava. Prom the south of the 
island it may theoretically be seen for 120 miles, but it 
has lost much of the grand and picturesque aspect which 
it shows from the Yalley of Arotava to the north-east 
of it, and looks like a flattened dome or block of moun- 
tain, with a central jag. We passed at 5 p.m. the 
historic Anaga Point,t distant five miles from the 
capital j it is the north-easternmost end of the 
island, and the beginning of Guanche etymology. 

* Swift's Tale of a Tub, Section V. 

+ Benchorro, the Mencey or chief of Anaga, agreed to be neutral and 
witness his country's ruin when the Spaniards landed at Tenerife. On 
the 1st May, 1493, they solemnised the Invention of the Cross in the 
camp of Port Anaga, and presently built there a town, which was of 
course called Santa Cruz. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 77 

As we steamed along, the grisly and iron-bound 
coast appeared a wall of rock, cut with deep bar- 
rancas, and girt with outlying rocks — the skirts of 
the awful peak. The Ass's ears then stood before 
us, the lights of San Andres twinkled upon the 
shore, and the sea was dotted with the flambeaux of 
the fishermen. About 9 p.m. we had finished the 260 
miles that separated us from Madeira, and we cast 
anchor off the Mole, over the very spot where the cutter 
"Fox" was sunk, losing 97 men during the ill-judged, 
gallant and mismanaged attack by "our Nel." in 1797. 
The Islands of the Canary group lie about fifty miles 
from the nearest point of the African coast ; they are 
seven in number* — Ptolemy and Pliny knew but six — 
are calculated to contain 180,000 to 200,000 inhabi- 
tants, and to present an area of 2900 square miles. 
Professor Eorbes believes them to be, like the other three 
island groups, Azores, Madeira, and Cape Yerde, the 
exposed remains of a continuous and extensive tract 
that formed the western prolongation of the European 
and African shores. He points to their identity in 
geology as well as in botany with Europe, and thus 
assists us in explaining the old legend of Atlantis. 
Professor Piazzi Smyth ]ooks upon them " as consti- 
tuting one enormous volcano, still to arise out of the 
ocean in all its majest}^," and holds "that the African 

* Including the three Selvagers, the Fortunate Archipelago numbers 
sixteen islands, of which six are very small— such as I. de Lobos, off 
Fuerteventura, and La Graciosa, Allegranza, Roque del Oeste, Rogue 
de Leste, and Sta. Clara near Langarote. 



78 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

continent may one day be ramparted on the west by a 
greater than Andean chain of mountains, of which 
Madeira, the Canaries, and the Cape de Verdes, will be 
some of the most glorious summits." Their names, 
beginning from the easternmost, are — First, Lanzarote 
or Lancerota, so called in a.d. 1400 by the Norman 
knight, Jean de Betancourt the Great, after some 
Lancelot* of his acquaintance. Second, distant two 
leagues, Fuertaventura, in our maps Fuerteventura, 
which the French call Fortuite, it is the great supplier 
of limestone. Third, Canaria, called by the Normans, 
from the bravery of its people, or because it was 
selected as the head quarters, Gran Canaria. Fourth, 
Tenerfe or Tenerife, of winch more anon. Fifth, 
Gomera, formerly unknown, but found so named from 
its gums by Jean de Betancourt. Sixth, "Benahoave," 
"my country," called Palma, by the two runaway 
lovers from Cadiz, who discovered it. Seventh and 
lastly, Hierro or Ferro of the Fountain tree. The 
natives called this, the westernmost of the group, 
Esero, or strong. " "When the Spaniards showed 
them iron, they found it exceeding everything in 
strength, thereupon they called it Esero ; and when 
they began to speak the Castilian language, they 
spoke of iron indifferently as Esero or Hierro, which 

* Perhaps Lancelote Maloysel of whom Bontier and Le Verrier speak. 
A Lancerota in a.d. 1446 — 47 discovered a great river between Cape 
Blanco and Cape Verde. The natives called it Ovedoc; he gave it the 
name of Sanaga, or Canaga, possibly from the Anaga above mentioned. 
The word survives in the French Senegal. In 11S7 the same Lancelot 
is mentioned as returning to the Canaries. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 79 

last is the Spanish word for that metal; so that at 
last they translated the real name of the island Esero 
into the Spanish one Hierro, which it retains to this 
day. But the Portuguese, and some others following 
their own dialect, called it Ferro ; and some will have it 
that the natives call it Per, though there is no proof 
for this assertion." * 

The word naturally recalls to my mind a geographical 

* Book I. " The History of the Discovery and Conquest of the 
Canary Islands, translated from a Spanish manuscript lately found in 
the island of Palma, with an inquiry into the origin of the ancient 
inhabitants." By George Glas, 4to, London, 1764. The translator 
should at least have mentioned the name of his author, Father Juan 
A'bren Galindo, who resided in these isles in 1591, and who wrote a 
history of them, printed in 1632. 

George Glas— I know not why some call him Glasse— was a Scotch 
skipper, who in the middle century, when "master mariners" were 
not over particular, traded between England, the Canaries, and Western 
Barbary. Determining to settle in the latter, he freighted a ship, and 
with his wife, daughter, and servants landed at the port of Guader, 
which the Spaniards had called Santa Cruz de Berberia. Ignoring its 
history, he called it Port Hillsborough, in honour of his patron, the 
Earl and minister of that name, and made alliances with the Moors 
and Arabs. The Spanish ambassador in London reported the case to 
Madrid, and the Captain-General of the Canary Islands was ordered to 
seize the adventurer. Glas appeared, after some time, at Santa Cruz, 
off Tenerife, was imprisoned, and, after an attempt to escape, was 
kept au secret. By scratching his name on crusts and throwing them 
on the beach, tidings of his detention reached the British consul, who 
reported the affair home, and Lord Rochfort, British Envoy at Madrid, 
obtained his liberation. The ill-starred Glas embarked with his 
family at Port Orotava on board a London-bound ship, the Earl of 
gandwich, richly loaded with gold, dollars, wine and silk. Four of 
the crew murdered all on board — the unfortunate mother and daughter, 
lashed in each other's arms, threw themselves into the sea. The 
assassins were arrested at Dublin, and their trial and execution may be 
found in the "Annual Register " for 1765. 



80 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

grievance, that the petty national jealousies of Europe 
have deprived us of the benefit of a single point de 
depart in longitude. " The great meridian," according 
to Mr. Greenhough,* " by the most ancient Greek geo- 
graphers^ passed through the Fortunate Islands, now 
the Canaries ; thence it was translated by the Arabians 
to the uttermost part of the western shore. The best 
of them brought it back again to the Canaries, and 
placed it on the Peak of Tenerife, the supposed Junonia 
of Ptolemy." 

"Ptolemy as Marinus the Syrian cited by him, and 
the ancients before them, fixed the great meridian in 
Hera or Junonia (Canaries) ; our own countrymen 
removed it from the Canaries to the Azores, under the 
idea of this being the magnetic meridian, which it is 
not ; and if it were, the reason would be bad, and the 
alteration objectionable." 

" Stevinus, a Dutch geographer, brought it back to 
the Canaries, observing that one of these islands should 
be fixed upon, a change which he terms exlguus quidem 
sed notabilis et perpetuus!' 

"Johnson in his lesser globe of 1602, makes the 
great meridian pass through Corvo and Flores, but in 
that of 1616, through the Peak of Tenerife." 

" The difference of longitude from the Pico to the 



* Mr. Greenh (High's Anniversary Address to the Royal Geographical 
Society. Vol. ii. p. 74. 

+ Hipparchus, of Nice, in B.C. 162, established his first point of 
longitude at Ferro. With the ancient Greeks it was the boundary of 
space itself. 



A DAY AT TEN E RIFE. 81 

Arabic meridian is 10° more East according to Abul- 
fida, — from Pico to the Island of St. Michael's 9°, — 
from Pico to Corvo 15°, and both so much more 
west/' 

Pico or Perro would be to longitude what the first 
point of Aries is to the heavens, and what the equator 
is to latitude — 0. After an ordinance of Louis XIII. 
of Prance, Cardinal Richelieu, by the advice of the best 
mathematicians, ordered, on 25th April, 1634, that the 
first meridian as in the days of Ptolemy should be placed 
in the western extremity of Hierro. Now there are a 
dozen O's, and not one great meridian ; London, Paris, 
St. Petersburg, Madrid, Washington are all usurpations, 
to use an old chronicler's words, and they confuse the 
idea of longitude in the minds of men. One might 
as well make the parallel of one's birth-place the of 
latitude. The loss of a single position is like that of 
the Latin language, in works of general reference, and 
those intended for the widely scattered learned of the 
world, who must now drudge through half a dozen 
dialects. 

The variety of derivations adduced by the savans to 
explain the term Canaries, may amuse the reader. Pliny, 
who informs us that in his day the Portunate Islands, 
which showed vestiges of buildings, were deserted, says 
that Grand Canary was named on account of its mastiffs 
or large dogs, two of which were presented to Juba, king 
of Mauritania. "When Europeans visited it they found 
no dogs,* but they remember that Pliny mentions the 

* Lancerota now produces a fine large breed like the Newfoundland: 

VOL. I. g 



82 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Canarii — so called from their dwelling with dogs and 
sharing with them the bowels of wild beasts— who lived 
beyond Mount Atlas, near the country of the Perorsi 
^Ethiopians. These may have been the earliest colonists. 
Ptolemy calls Cape Bojador,* now, or Cape Blanco, 
Gannaria, or Cauuaria extrema ; and it has been re- 
marked that the semi-Semitic population on the Senegal 
River term the country between that stream and Mount 
Atlas, Gannar. If true, this would give a trustworthy 
clue. Since the modern formal discovery of the island, 
authors, though they neglect to inform us what the 
aborigines called their country, have proposed a variety 
of wild derivations. The Canaanites had of course a 
chance. One finds Canaria in the fact that there are 
large dogs bred there — " Unos afernian ser por muchos 
canes que en la Canaria hasta hoz se crian" — others 
that the natives eat, dog-like, quantities of raw meat ; 
others in Crano and Crana, children of Noah — Cranaria 

the common dogs of the island are like the pariah of the east ; there 
are bastard greyhounds and pets which will presently be noticed. 

* In 1412 a ship sent by John I. of Portugal is said to have doubled 
this Cape (26° 20' north latitude). In 1415, the Great Prince 
Henry, his son by Philippa, daughter to John of Gaunt, and therefore 
half an Englishman, sent two small vessels, but they were driven back. 
It was successfully explored by Gilianez in 1432-33. In 1440, Gon- 
calez Baldeza reached Cape Blanco (20° 47' north latitude), 160 miles 
beyond Bojador, and brought home the first cargo of seals' skins. After 
his next journey, 1442, he was more fortunate, and returned with ten 
slaves and gold dust. The voyage is memorable as being the first 
incept of the slave export which afterwards rose to such a height. 
Prince Henry died in 14G3. At his death, despite all the national 
enthusiasm, the Portuguese had not reached Sierra Leone, or one-third 
of the distance to India. 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 83 

becoming Canaria — others in the thorny bushes with 
red fruit, called Uva Canina, or dogs' grapes. Others 
in the devil appearing to the natives, shaped like a 
shark-dog, as Dr. Faustus saw him; he also showed 
" in other figures which the natives called Tibicenas." 
Thomas Nicols, writing in 1526, opines that though 
there were " dogges " in the island, they only " served 
the people instead of sheep for victual." He heard 
from the conquerors that the word Canary was derived 
from a common growth, " square canes in great multi- 
tude together, which, being touched, will cast out a 
liqueur as white as milk, which liqueur is rank poison." 
He palpably alludes to the Cactus, the Euphorbia, or 
other kind of spurge-wort. Some have derived it from 
Canna, as canes, especially sugar-canes, are there 
abundant. Others from Cano, singing birds being 
abundant ; others " because it abounds with an herb 
called in Latin, Canaria (but in the Castilian language 
Triguera), which the dogs eat in the spring to cause 
themselves to vomit or purge." The application of 
the word is not less remarkable than its derivation. 
If it comes from a dog, it has descended to a dance and 
a wine, now almost obsolete, and to a bird that still 
exists.* 

* The Canary sack -which Sir John Falstaff loved is as extinct as 
good Madeira. The place of export was El Puerto de Orotava. The 
trade continued till the peace of 1815, after which it never recovered ; 
there were two wines, Canary and Malmsey. The former, made from 
a large grape, was the vin ordinaire, strong and heavy ; the latter 
was made from a smaller berry, and was sweet and agreeable. The 
favourite sites were the lower two hundred feet of hills with southern 
aspects ; dry walls breast high, and built four or five feet from 

a 2 



84 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

From the earliest ages these N??o-ot naKapuv have 
been the subject of enthusiastic comment; and I may 
here observe that although the Fortunate Islands are 
not now peculiarly happy, they might, with care and 
culture, be converted into an earthly Elysium. The 
group is thus described by Plutarch : " The soil is 
so abundantly fruitful, that it produces spontaneously 
plants and fruits, for use and delicacy, sufficient to 
answer the wants and delight the palates of the inhabi- 
tants." Of the climate he observes, "it is firmly 
believed even by the barbarous natives themselves, that 
this is the seat of the Blessed." M. Bovy de St. Yin- 
cent, in his "Essais sur les iles Fortunees," discovers in 
Tenerife and its neighbours, the veritable Mount Atlas 
of Homer and Virgil, the Garden of the Hesperides with 
their golden apples, the Gorgons under Queen Medusa, 
the Elysian Fields, the Purple Islands, the Atlantis of 
Plato, and the cradle of that Atlantic people, which 
earthquakes, volcanoes, and eruptions of the sea subse- 



one another, prevented the earth being -washed away. The vines 
suffered for four consecutive years — 1852 to 1856. From Glas we 
hear that the Guanches had public-houses where they sang and enjoyed 
the Canai"io or Canary dance — a short quick measure, long preserved in 
the islands, and imported into European Courts, Spanish and others, 
where, however, it has yielded to other novelties. The air or melody 
was also borrowed from the natives. The canary, the goldfinch, 
and the capirote are still the principal songsters of the island. The 
canary bird appears to have been common to the Cape Verde, Madeira, 
Canary, and A zore groups. Adanson ("Voyage to Senegal ") noticed 
at Tenerife that the canary bird, which grows white in France, is there 
grey, and attributes the change to the effect of climate. A further 
civilisation has turned it yellow. 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 85 

quently annihilated. As might be expected, the abori- 
gines have been traced back to the Ten Tribes of Israel, 
and their extinction is explained by an emigration to 
America,* like the Irish of the present day. 

The island of Thenerife, Tenerfis, Tenerfe, Tenerife, 
or Teneriffe, lies about the centre of the Canary group. 
Etymologists derive it from a king, Tehinerfe; others 
translate it the AThite Mountain, from the Palman 
word, Thenar, or mountain, and Ife, white; others 
make Tiner to signify snow or white, and Ife, moun- 
tain; no matter, however, it signifies Mont Blanc. The 
shape is that of a leg of mutton, with the end bone 
to the north ; the extreme length is seventy, and its 
greatest breadth twenty-two miles. Its circumference 
is not mentioned, the area is 897 English square 
miles, according to Humboldt, and the population 
64,000 to 70,000 souls, of which Santa Cruz contains, 
in books, 15,000 to 20,000, but more probably 8,000 to 
10,000. Its history does it honour. In a. d. 1102 to 
1406, Gadifer, or Gayferos de la Salle, and Jean de 
Betancourt, or Bethencourt, who in 1403 obtained from 
Don Henry III. a grant of the Fortunate Islands, with 
title of king, accompanied by 200 Normans and Gascons, 
besides seamen in three ships, conquered the "Islas 
Menores," Lanzerote, Euerteventra, Goinera, and Hier- 



* The theory was that a chain of islets with short intervals, if not a 
solid body of land, extended quite across the Pacific and Atlantic 
Oceans — a theory not yet disproved by geographers. John de Laet, a 
Flemish geographer, explains Pliny by an emigration of the Canarians 
to America. 



86 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

rosj but were beaten off from Canary and Palma. Years 
elapsed before proud Tenerife and her sister islands 
succumbed to Spanish valour, and after a century and 
a half the aborigines were either extinct or blended 
with their conquerors. The wars and the policy of the 
assailants forcibly remind us of Mexico and Peru ; 
Hernan Cortez and Pizarro having been represented 
by Rejon de Vera, and Alonzo Fernandez de Lugo. 
The latter, a scion of a noble Gallician family, after 
fighting against the Moors of Granada, and assisting in 
Perdro de Vera's conquest of Great Canary, applied to 
Ferdinand and Isabella for permission to conquer Tene- 
rife and Palma. In 1491, he was by them appointed 
Captain-General of the Canary Islands and of the coast 
of Barbary, from Cape Geer to Cape Bojador. Having 
wasted his means of recruiting, he betook himself in his 
distress to the High Church of Seville, when an ancient 
man of venerable aspect and quite unknown to him, 
placed in his hands a large bag of money. Of course it 
could be none other than St. Peter himself, of whom 
Lugo was all his life a devout admirer. With these re- 
sources he equipped three ships, landed at Great Canary, 
and recruited his force to 900 men. With this army he 
attacked Palma, and, despite the valour of its Amazons, 
he defeated the natives in three sanguinary battles; after 
seven months from the date of his landing, he proclaimed 
the kings of Castile monarchs of " San Miguel de la 
Palma," and on the 3rd of May, — the English calendar 
calls it, with unintentional naivete, the "Invention of 
the Cross," — 1486 or 1492, he built Santa Cruz, 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 87 

and declared it the capital of the island. The native 
prince Tanausu, being sent a prisoner to Spain, starved 
himself to death. Lugo was then made Governor of 
Palma, whose lands were divided amongst the conquerors 
and the conquered, the principal actor taking to himself 
the district of Los Sauces, or The Willows. 

Lugo, true to the motto of his race, — " Quien lanza 
sabe mover, ella le da de comer," the spear supports him 
that knows its handling — a curious contradiction to 
something said about the sword — returning to Gran 
Canaria, collected 1000 infantry and 150 cavalry, with 
whom on the 3 1st of April, 1493, he set sail for Tenerife. 
The eight Menceys were in great alarm. A local pro- 
phet had foretold the fall of Quebohi Bencomo, or 
Benchomo, the Mencey of Taoro, by a great white bird, 
which would bring with it ruin.* The Spanish ships 
were probably the fulfilment of that prophecy; others 
say that white birds preceded Lugo's little army. 
Having conciliated Anaterve, the Chief of Guimar, and, 
having planted his cross and celebrated the 3rd of May, 
the Spaniard on the 4th May, 1493, advanced up the 
broad pass towards the Vega of Laguna, and met the 
natives at a place where the chapel of our Lady de la 
Gracia now stands. 

Bencomo, after a Tagoror, or native council, in which 
great discord prevailed, advanced towards the Spaniards. 

* Similar prophecies were made by " Ajone " in Hierro, that before 
his death the god Eraoranhan would come in a white house — reminding 
us of the Mexican prophecies touching Cortez, and the Kafir's re- 
specting the English. 



88 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

His mission was peaceful, his manner hostile, and he 
swore by Echeyde the Peak* and by the bones of his 
father, the Great Tenerfe, that he would annihilate the 
invader. He refused all the proposals of the Spaniards, 
and insisting that they should evacuate the island, 
returned to council with his brother Menceys. He then 
proposed a confederacy, with himself at the head. This 
aroused the jealousy of those who considered themselves 
safe from the Spaniards, and he of Guimar joined Lugo 
with 600 vassals. 

In the spring of 1494 Lugo broke up his camp at 
Laguna, and marched westward to attack the enemy. 
Bencomo detached 300 of his best men to surprise an 
exploring party that had sighted Arantapala in Taoro, 
the present Orotava ; they manned the rear where the 
Spaniards had to return through the Pass of Acentejo, 
and committed great slaughter, forcing the survivors to 
flee. Lugo advanced to support the fugitives, and did 
battle for two hours. At length, hearing that Bencomo 



* According to the older travellers, the Guanches called the Peak 
Echeyde, a name which survives in the Pico de Teyde of the present 
day. It was a place of horror to the pagans who placed their bad-god 
Guayota (opposed to their good-god Acheman) in the centre of the 
earth or at the bottom of the crater, which would be equivalent to our 
Hades. They swore by Echeyde ; another oath was by the bones — 
Viera says the skulls — of ancient princes. The last sole monarch of 
Tenerife was the Great Tenerfe, -who died about a century before the 
Spanish invasion, and his nine sons divided his dominions, forming 
with a bastard child a total of ten. The descendants of these 
Menceys or princes were, according to popular belief, secretly sworn 
by certain elders and near relatives, upon a bone of the Great Tenerfe 
preserved in a leathern pillow. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 89 

was approaching with 3000 men, he prayed to St. 
Michael, and escaped by a cloud and a panic of the 
enemy. He lost, however, 600 of his men and 200 
allies; the Pass was then called La Matanza, or The 
Killing, a name which it bears to this day. As only 
200 wounded men remained, and his provisions were 
exhausted, he evacuated the island the 8th June, 1494. 

Returning a third time to Grand Canary, the un- 
daunted Lugo was enabled to levy 1100 infantry and 
70 horse, by the aid of Genoese merchants, and the third 
Duke of Medina Sidonia, who sent him. from Spain 650 
footmen and 45 cavalry, chosen from his tenants at San 
Lugar. He effected his second landing at Santa Cruz 
towards the end of the year 1494, rebuilt his cross and 
tower, and pitched his camp on the plain of Laguna. 
The Guanches, according to the Spaniards, opposed him 
with 11,000 men,— impossible out of a total of 15,000 
souls. Bencomo, stoutly refusing all proposals, ad- 
vanced with his men, who suffered much from the fire 
of the enemy, whilst their leader was himself wounded 
and obliged to leave the field. Tinguaro, the Mencey 
of Anaga, was killed in this battle of Laguna, and his 
head was sent on a pike as a warning to Bencomo, who 
returned a heroic answer, envying the chief so honourable 
a death. 

Spanish pertinacity broke the spirit of the Guanches. 
The uncommonly wet season of 1495 and the hardships 
of the campaign brought on fevers and the terrible 
modorra or lethargy.* The land was full of corpses 

* It is described as a drowsiness accompanied by a profound melan- 



00 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

whom no one buried or embalmed. The Spaniards, who 
also suffered from famine, advanced towards the interior, 
where they were met by the brave Bencomo at the head 
of 5000 men. After a battle of five hours, he was again 
wounded, and lost 2000 of his army. The Spaniards 
pursued the fugitives with shouts of u Victoria ! Vic- 
toria ! " in remembrance of which a village and a church 
were afterwards built upon the spot. 

After this signal victory the Spaniards under de 
Lugo, who like Hannibal could conquer but could not 
use victory, returned to Santa Cruz on the 4th January, 
1496, where they were recruited and refreshed by the 
generosity of the Duke of Medina Sidonia. They 
advanced once more on the 1st July, and established 
themselves at Orotava. Bencomo, though still in arms 
on Mount Tigayga, saw that the contest was useless, and 
proceeded to the Spanish camp. Received by Lugo, he 
and his beautiful daughter, Dacil, were duly baptized 
and became subjects of the Spanish monarchy. He 



choly, which proved fatal in a few days. The present ' ' sleeping dropsy " 
or "sleepy sickness" of the "West African coast — in Fernando Po 
several Spaniards have died of it— is the true lethargus of the neurotic 
or cataphoric class, the effect of softening of the brain and generally 
the result of over-indulgence in certain pleasures. Young girls die 
of it, and youths of both sexes have induced it at Sierra Leone by 
smoking "hashish." It is also caused by want, overwork, nostalgia, 
morose habits, and other mental and bodily depressors. The patient 
falls asleep even when eating or in the full glare of the sun, becomes 
emaciated though with a good appetite, and often suffers from shaki- 
ness, convulsions, glandular swellings in the neck, deafness, paralytic 
trembling, a shuffling gait, and sometimes enlargement of the head. 
The only treatment is instant change of air, scene, and habits. 



A BAY AT TENERIFE. 91 

is said to have died in Yenice : she married Gonzalo 
Garcia del Castillo. Two of his descendants, the Dean 
Don Pedro Jose Bencomo and his brother Don Cristobal 
Bencomo, confessor to Ferdinand VII., died in 1828. 
The remaining Menceys of Tenerife were carried by 
Lugo to Spain, and were presented to Ferdinand and 
Isabella. And Lugo himself, after a glorious career as 
General of the Coast of Barbary and Perpetual Governor 
of the island of Palma and Tenerife, in which he 
founded many of the towns and churches, died in 1525. 
Thus ends the strange and eventful history of the 
Guanche conquest and conquerors. At the end of a 
century they were no more, those primitive goat-herds 
scattered over a finite tract of some few dozen miles. It 
is a sad chapter in the blood-stained annals of the 
world. 

As we cast anchor the sky cleared and the deep cloud 
drew off to the north-east. It being Sunday, and 9 p.m., 
seasons at which Southerns do not usually distress them- 
selves, the health-officer's boat did not put off till our 
energetic captain had blazed away half-a-dozen times with 
his "resonant smoke-eagles," as modern poetry would 
have it, but in prose brass carronades. It was a wonderful 
roar, the echo from the rocks, a voice like thunder, a most 
Ossianic sound — the spirits of the Guanches seemed to raise 
a cry of lamentation from their graves. After a curious 
collection of questions, all of which might easily have been 
condensed into one, we were allowed pratique ; and, hear- 
ing of an opera, I hastened on shore. A line of scattered 
oil lamps denoted the town, which, situated on the north- 



92 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

east side of the island, rises from the wave, looking 
at this hour and distance like a lurid whitish sheet, un- 
backed by hill or verdure. A red light guided us to 
the mole, which the splashing of waves at high tides — 
the rise is nine feet — must make at times a ticklish 
landing-place. Ascending the steps, and passing through 
the gate attached to the castle of San Cristabol, after 
a few yards we found ourselves at Richardson's Fonda. 
It is named the English Hotel. I need hardly say that 
there is an English hotel everywhere, and is both better 
and dearer than its Erench rivals. 

A gloom}', dreary place — by night at least — was that 
same English hotel. A large building, with walls two 
feet thick enclosing a patio, whose hanging balconies of 
massive dark wood-work support llianas and creepers 
that must make admirable homes for the scorpion and 
the centipede. In the centre is an old well, and, con- 
trasting with an English pump of bran - new shape, 
dating 1857, is an Oriental stand for "monkey-jars" 
or water-pots. They are of light red porous clay,* 
sometimes ornamented with insertions of waxy quartz, 
which appears auriferous : the form probably dates from 
the days of Hanno : others trace in them a resemblance 

* The Tenerife dripstone, a huge basin of porous sandstone, which 
requires only an occasional scraping, is, like the monkey-jars, a good 
investment for those going south. According to Adanson (" Voyage 
to Senegal," &c, a.d. 17^9), "the water from the mountain springs 
at Tenerife being hard and crude, is filtered through a stone very 
common in the quarries. ..It is a kind of lava of the colour of soot, 
in a medium betwixt the density of the grey lava and the porosity of 
-the pumice." 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 93 

to the Etruscan. Ascending the dark heavy stairs, we 
found ourselves in a long sombre room, with a heavily- 
raftered and painted ceiling. A well-worn carpet, a 
couch, a table, and a few chairs were the only furniture. 
On the whitewashed walls hung engravings of Majos 
Toros, East-Indiamen, and other subjects, dating from 
the year 1810. An English official on sick leave from 
the Gold Coast had been left, at his own request, by 
the last steamer in the English hotel. Eew, I warrant, 

but old T would have dared to repeat in such a 

place and at such an hour — 

" Alibi est propositum in tabern& mori," 

— the sentiment which Sterne stole from Leightoun, 
and Leightoun stole from the jolly old Walter de 
Mapes. To me the fate of my compatriot appeared 
truly pitiable. 

11 A stranger's roof to hold thy head, 
A stranger's foot thy grave to tread, 
Desert and rock and alp and sea 

Spreading between thy borne and thee." * 

* X # X 

After Mr. Purser had ordered for the ship all the 
delicacies of the season — sheep, potatoes, pigeons, and so 
forth — we set out in the dry still air for the post-office; 
and after long knocking, succeeded in lodging the bags 
and in counting them to the glimmer of a solitary 



* Since the above was written the Messrs. Richardson have opened 
another hotel, which yields in nothing to tbe best Madeiran boarding- 
houses. It is classic ground : within its walls Peter Pindar wrote his 
ode to the Canarian fleas. 



94 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

tallow. The aspect of the place prepossessed me strongly 
—but how can Humboldt call it a " neat town ? " Tall 
houses, most irregularly built; palace alongside of 
lodging-hole, with huge balconies and sometimes half 
glass windows looking out upon narrow streets and lanes, 
by no means so inodorous as those of the Isle of YS ood, 
gave a ^si-Moorish and a most picturesque aspect to 
the scene. The soft light reminded one of Malta. 
The pavement, however, was of kidney-shaped stones, 
like those of Madeira — uncommonly trying to new 
comers. The Eambla, the Alameda and the Plaza were 
deserted, and we met but one party of Senoras and 
Senoritas, — of whom one was pointed out as having thrice 
ascended the Peak, — returning, duly guarded of course, 
from the bath. The opera-singers had left Santa Cruz 
after the season for Cadiz. So we re-embarked on board 
the " Blackland," and, with orders to be called early, 
retired to enjoy a sleep undisturbed by the roulis mas- 
sacrant, the clatter of the rudder-chains and the swing- 
swong, fore and aft, side to side motions winch had 
sorely damaged our rest during the last night. 

Daybreak, usually so staid and trite, — if the usual 
thick mist be wanting, — is a wondrous spectacle at 
Tenerife. When Columbus was ordered by Isabel la 
Catolica to describe the appearance of Jamaica, he 
crushed a sheet of paper in his hand, and partially open- 
ing it out upon the table, told Her Majesty that the 
crumpled paper would show it better than his words 
could tell. The same would serve for Madeira, Tenerife, 
Fernando Po, and almost all these outlying islands of 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 95 

West Africa, which contrast strongly with the flat coral- 
line formations of the eastern coast. But to return to 
the dawn. 

As the African sky, transparently azure, lights up like 
a cheek recovering from mortal faintness, the unrisen 
splendours fall gloriously from the blue depths of the 
ethereal vault upon the jagged crenellated points and 
bristling cones, where the condor and the roc might 
build, and which, sharp as the fracture of obsidian, spring 
from the volcanic lower levels. Now the sheen creeps 
down, with matchlessly brilliant tints, the sides of the 
tremendous pyramids, revealing perpendicular or beetling 
crags and cliffs, bleak and bare, black and ruddy-brown, 
as if still fresh from the action of fire, and rock curtains 
rent by deep anfractuosities, grizzly barrancas, narrow 
fiumaras paved with water-rolled pebbles and wavy 
beds and solid sheets of lava that have remained un- 
altered since the days of its creation. Those gnomon- 
like peaks, bisected with feathery cloud, throw strange 
shadows around them; varying with each half hour, 
they so change the view, that nothing but the upper 
outline remains to be recognised. Then warmer and 
warmer pour the rays over the purple curtains of beau- 
tiful Guimar, above which rises a light whitish cone — 
Pico Grande — over the cultivated lands, bronzing the 
heights, the limpidity of the air making all appear upon 
the same plane, over the thin surf-line creaming upon 
the shore, over the deep blue waters sleeping at the feet 
of the cliffs. Such are the peaceful beauties of the scenery. 
When the howling wind dashes the waves high up the 



96 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

rocks, and the rain-mist shows through its rents, the 
deep sheers and the iron walls that gird this Island of 
the Blessed, the sight must be truly awful. 

On such a morning — the fair, not the foul — I cast 
m j first glance at Santa Cruz de Tenerife j so called after 
the early fashion of the Portuguese and Spaniards who 
took possession of the land by planting a cross, and hence 
have a confusing variety of Santas Cruces. The country 
looks yellow, shadeless, and barren after Madeira; it 
never has anything but the thinnest coat of transparent 
green, yet the beautiful transverse range called the 
Guimar Hills, gives it a beauty all its own. The town 
is far more level than Funchal,* though smaller, nor is 
it outflauked by such a multitude of villas and farm- 
houses. Beginning at the right, is a breach in a wall 
of high black rock, to which the roaring of the waves 
has given the name of Yalle de Bufadera. It is 
a gully, serving as a blowpipe to raise the storm 
when least wanted. Here " Saint Xelson " first landed 
his men, and, according to native tradition, attempting 
to march over the hills, was beaten back with stones 
and rocks. Beyond it, apparently connected, lie the 
castles of San Miguel and Paso Alto, from which a 
Jacob's ladder threads the sides of the tall coke- 



* Humboldt describes the "little town" of Santa Cruz as lying 
"on a narrow and sandy beach, whose houses of dazzling whiteness 
with flat roofs and windows without glass, are built close against a 
wall of black perpendicular rock devoid of vegetation. " Surely the 
great travel'er must have described Santa Cruz as his countrymen, 
according to Goethe, would describe a camel. 



A BAY AT TENEBIFE. 97 

like rocks, where the powder-magazine stands and 
in whose flanks batteries are said to be concealed. 
Further on, where there is a stretch of level ground, 
at the mouth of a now dry fiumara, is the cochineal 
plantation of D. Manuel Conche, the well-known 
Captain-General of Cuba. The cactus is favoured 
by the dryness of earth and air, and constitutes the 
principal growth of this by no means fertile island. 
The long white walls of the enclosure — length and 
straightness of wall are here characteristic features — are 
garnished with pepper-box turrets ; and laden camels, 
stately and slow, carrying their arched necks with 
Oriental gravity, zigzag along the dusty roads. Beyond 
the plantation begin the more modern fortifications, 
which make already a respectable show. A new citadel 
that will contain twenty-seven rifled cannon of the 
largest calibre, with casemates for 1000 men, is rapidly 
rising. Next to it is the saluting battery — twenty- 
three fine old brass guns — which sunk the "Fox:" 
then, not unlike an English martello tower, the fort 
of San Pedro, which fired the shot that made Nelson a 
manchet. The castle of San Cristobal, — where the 
first tower was built, — and its outworks protect the 
mole, and the south of the city is commanded by 
San Juan. There are no works on the land side, which 
can be attacked with all facility. The habitations 
extend behind the fortifications from north to south, and 
occupy a low bench, which rises interiorly to Laguna, 
terminating southwards in a white and sandy plain some 
three miles long. The houses, which struck me by their 

VOL. I. H 



98 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

resemblance to those of Malta, are of large square form, 
gaily tinted with red, white, and yellow, and the case- 
ments are mostly green. Like Madeira it presents the 
anomaly of a city without smoke. Here and there a 
spire-like cypress or a date-palm gives an Oriental 
aspect to the place. Besides the defences, there are but 
two conspicuous buildings in the town : on the right, 
the church of San Francisco, with its domed and 
many-storied tower ; and on the left the parish church 
dedicated to Our Lady of the Conception, the spiritual 
guardian of Santa Cruz. The quarantine anchorage lies 
at the other side of the mole. The lazaretto, a low 
building, whose red, white, and yellow walls by no means 
prepossess one, is close to where we are reposing. The 
roadstead, for harbour it can hardly be called, is 
open to every wind except the west, which blows the 
rarest. 

I am informed that Las Palmas, the principal city of 
Great Canary, is improving her port ; if so, she will soon 
effect the ruin of Santa Cruz. The two capitals have long 
been rivals, and have agreed to share the dignities be- 
tween them. The Bishop and the Audiencia, or High 
Court, reside at Las Palmas. Santa Cruz is the 
residence of the Captain-General, the Civil Governor, 
and the Military Commandant; and as the place is, 
like Madeira, a part of the Empire, a province, not a 
colony, these officers are independent of each other. 
The only craft in port were two square-rigged mer- 
cantmenh, and four island schooners — cutter-like 
craft, not inelegant, nor I suspect inodorous. The 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 99 

people fish as far as the Moroccan Cape Nun,* and 
exchange their captures for orchilla and fine Barbary 
wool ; their crazy and ill-found vessels, hardly provided 
with ground tackle, occasionally fall a prey to the fierce 
and treacherous Bedouin Moors. 

Landing with the usual difficulty at the mole, we 
passed through the guardhouse gate into the hotel. 
The troops on the island are now a single brigade 
(about 400 men) of Spanish artillery, neatly clad in 
red caps and white shell-jackets, with overalls to 
match; a most appropriate habiliment, were it not so 
conspicuous. The others, with those extraordinary 
forage caps bearing the arms of Spain, red-faced blue 
jackets and white trousers, with cartouche boxes sup- 
ported, after Spanish fashion, by uncrossed braces as well 
^s belts, are the local militia. The islands supply seven 
regiments, which are liable to service throughout the 
Canaries. The officers were, but are no longer all 
indigenous, and the commandant and adjutant are 
drawn from the line. The men are a fine race, tall and 
sinewy; their manly aspect contrasts strongly with the 
half-starved Madeirans. They are not deficient in good 
looks : handsome is, however, as handsome does, and 

* Called Cape Nam, Nao, or Non by the Portuguese, because beyond 
this none had proceeded. It is probably so named from Ras Nun, the 
Cape of Fish — as Jonas is Zu'l Nun, the Lord of Fish — and was 
Europeanised to Non or Nom. About 1415, when Prince Henry of 
Portugal, being twenty-one years old, took up his abode at St. 
Vincent, the nearest point to Africa, the only portion of the West 
African litoral known to Europe, was that between Capes Spartel and 
Nun. 

H 2 



100 WANDEEIKGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the Canarians, though quiet, orderly, and sober in their 
own country, have the reputation of "roughs" in Cuba 
and elsewhere. There is a chronic squabble between the 
people of Laguna and Santa Cruz : the former term the 
latter fishermen, and these retort by calling their rivals 
cooks ; — a diversion which sometimes ends in a stabbing 
match. In the south of the island there is a popu- 
lation which was as celebrated for landlord shooting as 
the Irish of the present day. There, too, the aboriginal 
and semi-Semitic type still peeps out in spare, straight, 
slim figures, skins of a darker stain, irregular features, 
piercing black eyes, and high Arab cheek bones. 

After performing the duty of ordering breakfast, we 
sallied forth to imspect the town. Opposite the hotel 
stands the local Alameda " El May dan/' or promenade, 
a dusty, high-walled space, like the Florian Gardens 
of now cockneyfied Malta. We saw there a few fine 
mimosas, dahlias, daturas, and other wild flowers : a 
gipsy-like family was boiling the pot in a quiet corner. 
On the right of the hotel, near the centre of the town 
and close to the sea, was the Plaza de la Constitucion.* 
It is an oblong paved with flags, and surrounded by a 
lower band of cobble-stones and troltoirs, with iron 
pillar' d lamps and queer old stone seats for loungers who 
prefer the sitting position whilst prospecting promenades. 

* Besides the Parliament of Burgos (Castile), -which met in a.d. 
1169, nearly a century before the Leicester Parliament, and old Con- 
stitutions of 1808 and 1821, a statute was issued in 1834, shortly 
after the death of Ferdinand VII., Queen Maria Christina being 
Begent. A constitution was generally given in 1S37, and modified in 
1845 to the form in which it now exists. 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 101 

Six streets or lanes manage its circulation, and the 
south-western and south-eastern corners communi- 
cate with the sea. Here is the palace of the civil 
governor, a corner house, with tall white-washed 
front and long green jalousies, On the other side is 
the abode of the captain-general, a handsome building, 
with brilliant window-railings, and guarded by two 
bell -tent -like sentry-boxes for artillerymen in uni- 
form. The square also contains a Frenchified cafe, 
whence the coche, or omnibus, drawn by four mules 
or horses, starts twice a day for Laguna ; and under 
the same roof a French hotel,* generally preferred 
because it cooks well, is obliging, and charges Is. 3d. 
less than the English hotel, which demands $1 50. 
The other buildings are dwelling-houses, wine cellars, 
and a shop or two. These establishments, though not 
rivalling Madeira in appearance, excel them in civility. 
Moreover, here you have a pretty Spanish dialect 
instead of a debased patois of the debased Portuguese 
patois. The background exposes the lower slopes of 
partially-cultivated highlands, but, alas ! does not afford 
a view of the " cloud-piercing Peak." 

At the upper end of the Plaza, or away from the sea, 
stands a tall white cross of white marble, to point out 
the spot where De Lugo, in the bay of Amaza, first 
planted the symbol of Christianity in Tenerife. The 
original heavy wooden article is still preserved in the 
Hospital. Opposite it, and at the other end, is a 

* It presently came to grief from a suspicion of robbery to tbe 
tune of 20,000 dollars from a neigbbour. 



102 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

glaring monument of the same material, " the Appari- 
tion of the Blessed Virgin," as she appeared to the 
Guanche kinglets. Made at Genoa, it is the local 
Virgin, the San Pilar, the Nossa Senhora do Monte of 
the island. The Yirgen de la Candeleria, so called 
because the Pagans always visited it on Candlemas-day, 
rejoices in the following legend, which explains the action 
of the group. About 140 years before the arrival of the 
Spaniards, two Guanche shepherds driving homewards 
their goats, saw at a place called Chimisaya, in the king- 
dom of Guimar, on the south side of the island, what 
appeared to them a woman bearing a babe upon her right 
arm, and all the flock took flight in the wildest terror. 
Being contrary to their laws to address or even to pass 
a woman in a solitary place, they made signs to her 
to depart, and when she would not, one of them pro- 
ceeded to fling a pebble at her. His arm, at once dislo- 
cated at the shoulder, remained immovable. The other 
shepherd, drawing his tabona, or obsidian knife, ap- 
proached, and attempted to cut the figure's hands and 
arms. Instead of succeeding, he wounded himself. The 
men flying in terror, reported the affair to their Mencey- 
acaymo, who at once visited the place in state. He was 
astonished at the marvellous beauty of the figure, which 
was attired in splendid dress, and carried in the left 
hand a green-coloured taper. The Mencey, determining 
to do it honour, ordered his nobles to carry it to the 
palace ; but though it was small and light, it waxed — 
like most miraculous images — of an unbearable weisrht. 
The goatherds being then commanded to take it up, 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 103 

their hurts were at once healed, and the burden became 
a mere feather. It was deposited at Chinguaro in the 
palace-cave of the troglodyte prince, and all that 
country-side paid to it divine honours.* 

When the Spaniards conquered the island, this image 
fell into their hands, and in 1539 the Emperor Charles Y. 
committed it to the Dominicans. They placed it on a grand 
altar in a convent which they had built near the original 
cave, in a miserable hamlet down the coast called after 
the Virgin, Candeleria. The order became enormously 
wealthy, and many a miracle, teste the ' ' History of the 
Canary Islands," by D. Juan Nunez de la Peria (Madrid, 
1676), was performed accordingly. The little image of 
dark red wood, hardly four feet highf and very mean, 
though the work of angelic hands — so the Delphic 
poetry of the God of Yerse appeared always dreadfully 
prosaic — was loaded with pearls, and the green-painted 
candle was replaced by one of pure gold. Its end was 
TpayLKUTarov. On the 7th November, 1826, a long- 
remembered hurricane or cyclone burst over the island, 
sweeping battery and monastery, chapel and image, into 
the sea; and though long watched for, it has never 
thought proper to reappear. Most probably it was 
mortally offended by the dwarfish Demon, Constitucion, 

* A similar tale is told of the Christ of Ponta Delgada, in the north 
of Madeira, to which many pilgrimages are still made. Oue can 
hardly help envying folk who can content themselves with such a faith 
of dry bones. 

t In the upper and lower folds of the dress were numerous Roman 
initials, of course profoundly mystic, which caused great discussion, 
hut which were never conclusively provided with words. 



104 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

which, in 1821, placed in deposit the wealth of con- 
vents and nunneries. Melancholy to relate, heretics will 
opine, judging from three or four nail holes in the 
back of the image, that it was nothing but a ship's 
figure-head cast on shore, and say the same of the Christ 
found by fishermen off the Ponta Delgada. In the 
marble group, which dates from 1778, the Guanches 
are very respectably attired in tunics and buskins, after 
the fashion of " Moorish " prints in the days of the 
" Lettres Persannes : " they have still the usual comple- 
ment of noses, although those "dementos," the mid- 
shipmen, will mutilate them to revenge the Pox. The 
obelisk still bears in large letters Plaza Real, which have 
not wholly been obliterated, and the fine monument is 
spoiled by mal-position. As regards the Plaza, the 
fault of the whole scene is want of verdure. All is dry 
around, whilst the cindery aspect of the soil above, the 
bronzed appearance of the desolate rocks, caused, I 
believe, by some epiphyte, and below, the brown terraces 
of bare and sunburnt earth, contrast unfavourably, in 
the green man's eye, with the entourage of Punchal. 
But the land is open, the sense of prison vanishes, and 
the yellow hue tells of wholesome dryness. 

Leaving the Plaza, we turned to the right, and after 
threading sundry shady streets, arrived at the Cathedral 
of the Conception. It was of course open, so we passed 
through the basaltic portico without other ceremony 
than the attendance of a guide and a multitude of 
small boys — they are impudent as the London juvenile 
and the London sparrow — who think it necessary to 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 105 

favour the stranger with their company. The cathedral 
is not remarkable in style — the usual bastard Kenais- 
sance of trans-European art, built of basalt, with the 
round Norman arch, and a nave, two aisles and side, a 
high altar, a retable, a cushion, a table, and an organ- 
loft. But here, as in all other churches of the island, 
the three walls of the building are plain even to 
gloom, whilst the altar, the chapel, and the end of 
the church blazed with gilding and silvering. Piloted 
by a young chorister in the usual magpie suit of 
black and white, we first visited the chapel of 
Iago, on the left side of the church; here, planted 
against the walls, on each side of the cross, in long 
coffin-like cases, with glass fronts, are the colours of 
the British cutter "Fox" and her boats, that came 
to grief in the memorable affair of 1797. It is 
some satisfaction for the Englishman to reflect upon the 
native proverb, "If we don't care for Trafalgar, we 
don't care " — speaking as an Englishman would of a 
hundred years hence — "for this misfortune." The other 
decorations are vile pictures and viler statues. The 
angels were habited in a golden juste an corps, with 
wings and double tunics to match; their heads were 
surrounded with wreaths of flowers that reminded me 
of the latest London ball, when at six a.m. milady 
returns to her " bower," whilst their legs were 
evKi'THXiheg with Moorish buskins like the Gu inches 
of Candelaria.* Nor less did various Saviours and 

* The anachronisms are the more unpardonable, as authors distinctly 
describe the Guanche dress, tight coat of grass cloth extending to the 



106 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Dolorosas suffer atrocious agonies at the painter's hands. 
The organ-loft was bare, " barring " a piano. The 
Roman Catholic cathedral must sparkle and dazzle, be 
splendid and sensuous, at once awe and delight the 
senses; like a race-meeting or pyrotechnics, to be 
respectable, it must be upon the grandest scale, other- ' 
wise it is a failure. There is nothing imposing in 
tawdriness and bad art, and the sight of first-rate 
magnificence induces anything but a " prayerful" tone 
of mind.* 

Before leaving the church I was shown an ex-voto 
tablet certifying that by the good aid of our Lady of 
Candelaria a Trench merchantman escaped a terrible 
storm. The ugliness of surrounding objects brought 
forcibly to mind the old satirist's sneer, 

" Nee Dens intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus 
Incident." 

And the no less pungent saying of the modern, 

" De par le Hoi ! defense a Dieu, 
De faire miracle en ce lieu !" 

which should be proclaimed with loudest Oyez ! oyez ! 
oyez ! in every colony that ever came from the Mediter- 
ranean. 

knees, girt round the wa:st -with a leather belt, an outer cloak of goat 
skins, and a similar cap of skin taken off entire and so placed that a 
goat's beard hung under each ear to be tied under the chin, and shoes 
of raw hides. Some also wear bonnets of skins adorned with 
feathers. 

* Not long ago these seven little islands, hardly equal to seven of 
the smallest counties in England, had 40 churches, 40 monasteries, 
and 1£0 hermitages. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 107. 

After inspecting the cathedral, we wandered about 
the streets seeking Vaventure. The weaker half of 
the population is a most distinct improvement upon 
Madeira: fine eyes, luxuriant hair, clear olive skin, 
and features which are often regular and sometimes 
beautiful. For those who admire black anywhere 
except "in the skin," there is nothing more enchant- 
ing than the women of Tenerife. Pretty, however, 
they never are past the age when the dialle endows 
them with fleeting charms; they all become either 
handsome or dead ugly. In England, on the contrary, 
there are hundreds of pretty women to one beauty — the 
latter is far rarer than amongst their southern sisters. 

" J'aime le vin blanc, said Montaigne ; Montaigne's friends 
Consigned him and his wine to all the fiends." 

Despite which danger, I will confess, that one soon wearies 
of black eyes and black hair, and that after a course of 
such charms, one falls back with pleasure upon brown, 
yellow, or, what is better than all, red-auburn locks and 
eyes of soft limpid blue. Nothing, however, truer than 
chacun a son gout, and that " lous les gouts sont respec- 
tables" "Were like to love like, and not to seek in love 
that contrast which is generally fatal to friendship, our 
race would presently split up into pigmy and giant, 
deformed and transformed, in fact, into all the varieties 
of its canine friends. 

The costume of the peasant population approaches 
the picturesque. As w r e left the church we met the 
dama with the mantilla, that remnant of Oriental 



103 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

modesty, or the veo preto, a long flowing black silk veil — 
the peasantry seem to prefer white and coloured stuffs — 
hanging behind the head, and invariably armed with the 
fan, more fatal than the cuchillo. The lower classes of 
the town, instead of the manto y say a, wear shawls or 
large kerchiefs over calico dresses, untanned brogues, 
and upon the head a fichu or two. A high-crowned felt 
broad-brim, such as belong to men, and often two hats, 
placed ole' clo' fashion, protected, as amongst the 
Welsh, the market women and the gucle wives from the 
ardours of " that indecent sun. M The males had huge 
sombreros, shirts and jackets half concealed under a 
manta or blanket-poncho, whose embroidered or leathern 
collar sua'orested the burnous, short breeches like Indian 
anghirs of brown stuff, or white soutanelles of cotton, 
like knickerbockers, and gaiters bandaged up the leg like 
the classical Italian brigand, or curious leathern gaiters 
like those of Mexico. The priest wore his decent, 
womanish robes, — surely the petticoat, like tobacco, has 
been adopted in Europe by the wrong sex ! — and the huge 
antique tile, like a bit of tree trunk, with a hole for the 
head. The beggar looked as if one might make a good 
sketch of him in his rags, and there was the usual 
Spanish nobility in the manta, even although it came 
from Manchester. It is the Arab's aba and burnous, the 
Eoman toga, the Irish cothamore, the Scotch plaid, the 
American buffalo hide and poncho, the European cloak. 
The dog of the old Spanish masters — which in breeding 
lands appears an invention — slunk about the gutters. 
The rest of the tableau was filled up with heavily-laden, 



A DAY AT TENEEIFE. 109 

ill-begotten, and ill-conditioned camels, ponies, mnles, 
oxen, and half-starved asses, shrinking from a cruel 
goading with the garote or alpenstock, which has been 
bequeathed to the Tenerife man by his predecessor the 
Guanche. 

On a rising ground where formerly stood the convent 
of San Domingo, now stands the market-place, a sub- 
stantial building like the Sotto Borgo of Pisa. It was 
late, and business was consequently slack, confined to a 
few fruits and vegetables ; the crowd, though noisy, 
was small. My companion, a Gold Coast artillery- 
man, affected to recognise amongst the listeners a gen- 
tleman of slaving celebrity. Xear, but separated from 
the market-place by a narrow lane, is the theatre, a neat 
building bearing the name of Isabella II. The language 
of the streets was a Spanish, non-explosive as the Chilian, 
which avoids gutturals, and the women, when not bawl- 
ing, articulated with a pleasant languid drawl. The 
sun became hot — the mercury showing 79° F. in the 
cool house — but the heat was dry, and dry heat never 
yet injured a sober man. 

Beturmng to the hotel, we breakfasted, a VAvglaise, with 
tea and coffee, on bream and boga [Bux vulgaris), mutton 
chops, very " skimpy/' from a lean goat, and bad fruits ; 
apricots hard as potatoes, figs unripe, and over-ripe pears 
— the prickly pear, which one learns to admire in the fiery 
Mediterranean, is here used, but neglected down the 
coast. The wine w r as Malaga, unsupportably strong, 
like cheap port. After feeding we returned to business 
— the gratification of our wants. Some required cigars. 



110 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

At the time there were no good Havanas in the place, 
but cigarettes are an excellent investment for those 
going down South ; a stranger can buy eight bundles for 
two pezetas or twenty pence. Dogs, but not mastiffs, 
which, if they ever existed, are extinct, form another 
local article of trade. That preferred is a small white 
animal, with black nose, apparently broken, like the 
little pug-"dawgs" sold in Eegent Street, and the silky 
curly hair of a spaniel ; they clip the circumoral 
region and trim the feet of this bastard poodle like 
his European legitimate brother which the French 
so often call " lion." The principal merit seems to 
be the great charm which M. Michelet and his school 
find in the Parisienne : it consists in being always 
maladive. The price is about $5. The vendor begins 
by asking 10, the purchaser by offering 2, and 
they meet half way. Tenerife also boasts of good 
"bussocks," which resemble rather those of Egypt and 
the East than those of Madeira and England. The 
price varies, according to age and size, from $8 to $12. 
Mr. Distin had warned the Eernandian Consul that the 
Canarians are cunning in concealing a disease of the frog. 
He consequently left £10 with Mr. Richardson, and a 
request that specimens might be forwarded to him. 
It was an unwise investment : asses never outlive the year 
at Eernando Po, and generally they die much sooner. 
There, as at Accra, it may be truly said that the climate 
is fatal to a horse, a donkey and a white woman. Mules 
at Tenerife were found to be much more expensive than 
their half-brothers the "mokes." AThen good they 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. Ill 

are rarely to be bought under $120, and are pre- 
ferred by many for riding. The camels, originally 
from Morocco but now raised at San Cerota especially, 
fetch the price of mules. They are badly bred beasts, 
and very snappish ; a muzzled camel-fight is a favourite 
amusement. We did not fail to provide ourselves with. 
Gallos de Pelea, to while away the " similar hours" on 
board. The general colour of the birds is dark, with 
red or yellow hackles, clear eyes, and bright golden legs. 
They showed uncommonly good blood : one was killed, 
and the other fell a victim to the cruel climate of Fer- 
nando Po. The price is according to fancy ; these cost 
£1 per bird. 

My labours at Santa Cruz concluded with a visit to 
Mr. Parkinson, then Her Majesty's acting consul; and I 
was accompanied to the beach by Mr. Bartlett, son of 
the consul that preceded Mr. Murray. Both were 
obliging enough to be catechized as travellers will. 

The produce of Tenerife was, in 1812 — 15, from 8000 
to 11,000 barrels of wine, before the wine disease fell 
like a blight upon the island. There were eight or 
nine kinds, but all inferior to those of Madeira. The pre- 
sent exports, which are trifling, comprise corn and various 
cereals, goats and cattle, cochineal and orchilla. There 
is a good printing-press and two newspapers, the Eco do 
Comercio and the Guanche. Three English families 
only are permanently settled in the place : Messrs. David- 
son and Co. ; Messrs. Hamilton, agents to the African 
Steam Ship Company; and Messrs. Ptichardson, of the 
English Hotel. Either this island or its neighbour, Gran 



112 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Canaria, may look forward to better days, — if, at least, 
tliey consider an influx of strangers to be a blessing. 
At present Tenerife is connected "with the mother 
country by a weekly vessel from Cadiz §* of these 
visitors two proceed onwards to Havana. It is also 
connected with England by two lines, the English 
African Steam Ship and the North African Companies, 
each of these monthly.! About every six weeks there 
is a merchant steamer from Marseilles. And there is an 
extra colonial vessel which carries strangers to the 
neighbouring islands. 

I should greatly prefer Tenerife to Madeira. Madeira 
is a prison, and a cockney fled prison : a prison in which 
you meet "Town" to boot. Guide-books may expand 
themselves in the gorgeous guide-book style, upon ex- 
cursions, rocks, and sailings to Cama do Lobos, Homem 
em Pe, Porto Santo, and Deserta Grande, — all places 
within or almost within cannon-shot. But even the 
guide-books cannot deny that there is an ennui in the 
Isle of TTood which passes show. Tenerife also is 
quiet and dull, with a witness. There are many old 
Spanish families, descended from the victors and settled 
in the island since the days of its conquest. Unhappily 
the sangre a zul, though gifted, according to no easily 

* The Spain and Canary line leave Cadiz on the 7th and 27th of each 
month, and leave Tenerife on the 14th and 29th: the voyage occupies 
four days. The Havana steamers touch at Santa Cruz on the 15tb and 
30th, when outward bound, but do not touch on return. 

+ The steamers start from London, via Lisbon, Gibraltar, Mogador, 
and Grand Canary, reaching Santa Cruz on the 20th of each month : 
during yellow fever they are not sent. 



A DAY AT TENEBIFE. 113 

pleased witness, with graceful courtesy and a kindly 
absence of etiquette, rarely mingles much with the 
petite noblesse, or the less-aristocratic strata of society ; 
and it has, I need hardly say, learned to stand aloof 
from the tourist. The common people are by no means 
so polite, but they are more independent, and are a 
finer race than the Madeirans. Santa Cruz does not 
yet, it is true, possess any of the comforts and con- 
veniences of her northern neighbour. En revancJie, 
she has the charm of semi-orientalism, perfect liberty, 
and an utter absence of Bond Street and May Pair : 
good enough in their place, but sadly misplaced 
outside the White Cliffs. In the Canaries there is 
less confinement; the neighbouring island can always 
be visited ; and during the three summer months, June, 
July, and August, there is the Pico do Teyde, — the 
world-known Peak.* The dripping cavern near Ycod, 

* During the other months it is closed by ice and snow, with which 
it supplies the island. Its altitude, 12,176 feet above sea-level, wants 
little of the line of perpetual snow, in that latitude 12,500 feet ; yet 
in places, as for instance the Cueva de Yelo, or Ice Cave, 11,085 feet 
above sea-level, congelation lasts through the year. The routine 
ascent is made in two days, the travellers sleeping at an estancia en 
route. It is easy, as the road can be ridden along for the greater 
part of the way, and can show little daDger, as the ladies of Tene- 
rife have often succeeded in climbing it, and in singing songs on the 
topmost Piton. Like the Camaroons Mountain, it still slumbers, but 
it is not dead. 

Of course there remain only details of exploration, where MM. 
Webb and Berthelot have dune the general, and M. Arago the social 
science; where Mr. Piazzi Smyth (1856) laboured at photography and 
astronomy, and which is constantly visited by enterprising men. The 
Peak, it will be remembered, was the opening scene of Humboldt's 
labours in 1799, and suggested to him laws touching the geographical 

VOL. I. I 



114 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

said to connect sea and peak by a tunnel 8 miles long, 
and 11,000 feet of rise, still calls for exploration. In 
fact, the whole cluster teems with varied beauties and 
curiosities. As for climate, the air of Santa Cruz is 
drier, brighter, and therefore more wholesome for con- 
sumptives, than that of Punchal, and the average heat 
in summer does not exceed 90°, nor does wintry cold 
fall below 60° (F.). At Santa Cruz there are thirty to 
thirty-six days of rain to seventy-one at Funchal : 
Tenerife, moreover, has many climates, enabling the 
consumptive patient to escape the vicinity of the sea, 
which often makes him wretched. Every one remarks 
its elasticity, purity, and invigorating properties. The 
vale of Orotava, known by its Dragon-tree, if by 
nothing else, lying on the northern side of the island, 
has an average of 5° warmer than Madeira, whilst 
Santa Cruz is about 3° less than Orotava. But before 
invalids can resort to Tenerife, much must be done. 
Beyond being a free port, Santa Cruz offers no in- 
ducement to strangers, who, after being worried and 
cheated in all directions, find an utter absence of all 
the comforts of life. To establish an hotel on a proper 
scale would ruin any individual : it could only be under- 
taken by a company ; and I am not sanguine that even 
this would succeed. The Spaniards seem not to court 
the influx of strangers. 

distribution of plants. His admirable descriptions sentfortb clouds of 
scientific travellers to all quarters of the globe. Here the geologist, 
Von Buch (1815), developed his "magnificent" theory of craters of 
elevation. In botany, also, the "gifted Swede," Christian Smith, 
succeeded Humboldt, and fell a victim to the ill-fated Kongo exploration. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 115 

It would hardly be gracious to leave Tenerife with- 
out some notice of its old inhabitants the Guanches. En 
passant let us remark that the sentimentalist who cries 
shame upon the ethnologist for theoretically u wiping 
out at his caprice whole nations of brother men," can 
here find many traces of a race completely extinct. The 
term Guanche is erroneously applied by the uninitiated, 
the Rev. Thos. Dubary (Notes of a Residence in the 
Canary Islands, etc. London: 1851), Dr. Pritchard 
(Researches into the Physical History of Mankind, book 
3, chap. 2, etc.) included, to the natives of all the 
Canary Islands.* The earliest and most correct writers 
limit it to the people of Tenerife. Secondly, it is 
generally supposed that the islands all spoke one lan- 
guage : this is the theory of old Clavijo, and in later 
years of M. Berthelot, who opine that a great number 
of common and proper names, as well as local 
denominations, beginning in Te, Che, and Gua, were 
equally used in various islands and even in the entire 
Canary group ; whereas, on the contrary, their dialects, 
according to ocular witnesses, were mutually unintelli- 
gible. Thirdly, the theory is that the Guanche language 



* The people of Tenerife, according to Glas, called themselves 
Yinchune, which the Spaniards corrupted into Guanche. Etymologists 
explain it thus: "The inhabitants of Tenerife called themselves 
Guan (the Berber wan), one person, and Chinet, or Chinerf, Tenerife. 
So that Guancbinet meant a man of Tenerife, and was easily corrupted 
to Guanche." In Glas we find mentioned a "Captain Artemis," who 
defeated De Betancourt. By adding Guan (i.e., wan) we obtain the 
word Guanarteme, a chief ruler. Clavijo's vocabulary contains only 
forty-four words. 

I 2 



116 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

was Berber.* I cannot but think, despite the high 
authorities in favour of such hypothesis, and the peculiar 
formation of the feminine in the names of ancient and 
modern places, that it was a somewhat less distinctly 
marked Semitic tongue, like those prevailing in the 
corresponding latitudes on the eastern coast. Had it 
been decidedly Semitic, the Spaniards, of course, would 
have understood it; but a Meccan cannot comprehend 
the romances of old Himyar on the eastern coast of 
Arabia, much less an Abyssinian or a Galla. In the 
Canarian we have Sesette, Satti, and Tamatti, signifying 
5, 7, and 8 : these are Semitic, but less near the original 
type than the Berberan, Sedis, Set, Tem.f Again, in 

* See Royal Geographical Society's Journal, vol. ii. p. 172, 
"Ethnological Remarks on the Original Languages of the Inhabitants 
of the Canary Isles. By Don J. J. de Costa de Macedo, Perpetual 
Secretary to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Lisbon ; " with a 
learned terminal note by the Editor. 

+ In the paper above quoted (p. 181) M. de Macedo remarks, 
"Among the numerals of the Canary language there are some that 
resemble the Berber and the Shulul ; but there are others also that are 
entirely different ; and that is sufficient to show the disagreement of 
those languages. If the identity of two languages could be formed by 
a resemblance between some of their numerals, the Portuguese and the 
German might be shown to be the same." Did the learned Secretary 
forget that Portuguese and German are the same in origin, — cousins 
german, both branches of the great Indo-European family? 

I differ also toto ccelo from the author who asserts that ' ' Languages 
do not change their physiognomy, and are not corrupted except by con- 
tact with other languages and by an augmentation of the wants and 
commerce of the people who use them." The manifold dialects of 
Upper Hindostan, all descended palpably from one stock, and the con- 
fusion of tongues in East Africa, prove how powerful is isolation and a 
total want of communication in modifying man's speech. Even the 
English factories can teach this lesson. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 117 

Tenerife, we have many words beginning with al and 
ben, as Alinogaren, — El Masjid, — Bencomo, — Bin 
Kaum — the latter a proper name. In the case of 
Benicod, or Benycod, it is only fair to suppose that it 
means Son of Ycod, probably the chief who founded the 
present town of that name in Tenerife. The Canarian 
Faycan, Faycag, or Faycayg, again, meaning priest, is 
palpably Fakili : whilst Kabeheira appears to be Kabir. 
There is much of interest in the life-like accounts left 
by the earlier Spanish writers of the poor Berber goat- 
herds, the doomed race that passed away four centuries 
ago. They were forward savages, who knew how to 
cook meat, avoiding our modern European abomina- 
tion — gravy. They held it base to injure the women, 
children, and houses of worship of the enemy : their 
form of marriage was polyandry. They had a nobility 
that never had condescended to cook, or to tend, milk, 
seize, steal, or kill cattle, or to insult the weaker sex. 
They had, like most barbarians, a constitutional govern- 
ment, holding Sabor or councils in the squares before 
their caves, called Tagoror.* They were fond of fat- 
ness in women, and crammed their hides with gofio, 
the Moorish Kuskusu; leanness, I may remark, is a 
sin never forgiven by southern men. They tried causes 

* In Grlas, however, "Tagaror," and in Clavijo "Tagoror," we are 
informed by M. de Macedo, is a Tenerife word signifying properly 
not a place of council or punishment, but an assembly, tribunal, or 
ajuntamiento, whereas sabor was applied to the "supreme council of 
state," where important affairs were determined upon, and criminals 
tried and punished. Clavijo, however, uses "Tagoror," also, as the 
place of meeting. 



118 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

before a jury of twelve, and they fought duels, or 
rather prize-fights, with obsidian bowie-knives, till the 
spectators cried Gama ! Gama ! — " Hold ! enough !" 
They had ordeals, nuns (Magadas), and nunneries 
(Tamogantin Alkorak, i.e., houses of God), and they 
recognised the right of sanctuary. Helotage, cuissage, 
prelibation, and pucelage were not unknown. Their 
treatment of the corpse shows a queer but interrupted 
connection with Egypt, even as the Camaroons and Fer- 
nandian peaks are cognate in point of botany with the 
Abyssinian highlands.* "Ganigos," or pots of milk, 
were placed for the use of the dead. According to the 
islanders, there were as many as 200 mummy caves, 
and specimens are still found in malpaises, the desert 
parts of the island. I heard of a peasant who lately 
discovered the body of a child, beautifully sewn up 
in kidlike mortuary-skin, and beat it to pieces, not 
knowing that its value was at least §50. But my limits 
warn me that it is time to refer the reader to the fountain- 
head : Pierre Boutier and Jean le Yerrier, Ca da Mosto, 
Viera y Clavijo, Nicols, Gomara, Galindo, and Nunez de 
la Pena. 

* The Guanches wore a peculiar cylindrical coral-red, black, or 
other coloured bead. If this prove similar to the Popo or Aggri bead 
of the Gold Coast and Bight of Benin, it is another Egyptian pecu- 
liarity, inimitable to all other races. It is said (bnt I believe erro- 
neously) that clay pipes, like those found in the Irish kistvaens, have 
been met with, proving that the aborigines smoked tobacco or some 
succedaneum. The Dragon-tree (D. draco) of Orotava is generally 
derived by naturalists from the East Indies; but why go so far when it 
is to be found in Morocco upon the Somal Coast and on the islands of 
the Socotra ? 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 110 

Before leaving Tenerife I have still something to say 
— historical and literary. 

The city of Santa Cruz is now much stronger than it 
was in a.d. 1797. How three or four martello towers 
that could have been shelled with ease, and a wretched sea- 
wall that trembles with salutes, whilst the whole southern 
seaboard affords the readiest means of disembarkation, 
could have given Admiral Lord Nelson so complete a 
" whipping," it is hard to explain. The reader will re- 
member that the great sailor, after an attempt upon the 
treasure-ships off Mexico, attacked Santa Cruz with four 
ships of the line, three frigates, and the " Eox " cutter. 
The Commandant, General Gutienez, was about to yield, 
when Captain Troubridge, landing to the south of the town, 
marched to the Dominican monastery, which he seized. 
According to local statement, Gutienez was persuaded 
to resist by a young sergeant, Manuel Cuera. Captain 
Bowen, R.N., who was to act as guide, was killed whilst 
disembarking at the Mole, Captain Troubridge was per- 
mitted to retire, and Nelson was obliged to withdraw, 
after losing his colours, his arm, his boats, and some 
250 of his best men. The attempt on a stormy night, 
when the surf broke fearfully, was ill-judged in the 
extreme; yet it brought the hero — who expected, by 
the bye, utter ruin — 1,000^. per annum, the Bath, and 
the freedom of the cities of London and Bristol. The 
only gratifying consideration in the affair is the gentle- 
manly behaviour of both the enemies after the battle. 
The Spaniards, with whom we are ever on better terms in 
war than in peace, gave every Englishman a loaf of bread 



120 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

and a bottle of wine; and Nelson took home for General 
Gutienez a despatch informing the Spanish Court of 
the victory which their soldiers had won over himself.* 

The life of Nelson, like that of Washington, has still 
to be written ; but who will do it ? Who dares to set 
before the public a faithful portraiture of all the frailty 
and meanness, vice and folly, greatness, splendour of 
spirit, and high superiority over the herd of men which 
characterise a Napoleon, or even a Nelson? And cui 
bono ? say many. Here is a man who has taken official 
rank as a British naval hero — has not his life been written 
in classical English by Robert Southey, Esq., LL.D., 
Poet Laureate, etc., etc. ? Better qiiieta non movere. 
Has not the book been published by John Murray, Esq., 
of Albemarle Street ? What the deuce would you do 
more? For my part, I would know the truth; I would 
see published the copy of verses written after the battle 
of Copenhagen, and hear more of a journal lately printed. 
Lord Holland, Captains Hunter and Eoote, Miss Wil- 
liams, and Mr. Ruskin, wrote at a season when no one 
could hope for an impartial hearing, — who could then 
demolish a popular " sea-king " that died exactly at the 
ri^ht moment ? The worst of these conventional bio- 
graphies is, that the world derives from them no moral 
hints. So it is with History. Although qnocitmque 
modo scripta delectat, I have lived long enough to see 
that is written; and to the best I prefer, with the 
learned Frenchman, the mere novel, because that 

* Santa Cruz has thrice beaten the English. In 1657 Blake lost 
500 men before San Cristobal. In 1706 Admiral Jennings also failed. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 121 

splendlde mendax pretends to be true, whereas, with 
equal claims to veracity, this owns itself to be fiction. 

There are two literary works which caused no small 
excitement in, and amusement to, the island. 

The first is that of a savaiis brother, M. Jacques 
Arago, " Voyage autour die Monde" "I had almost 
said the wisest literature in Europe " — Mr. Thackeray's 
dictum touching French authors — certainly does not 
apply to the works of this litterateur. As is his people's 
wont, he kept his right eye upon Paris, and, naso adunco, 
he looked out upon the world with his left, whilst his 
intense Miso-Albionism made him often blind of the 
mental optic. The speeches and dialogues are mythical 
as those of the Homeric heroes; and he does not hesitate 
to falsify History and to sacrifice Truth upon the altars 
of patriotism and prejudice, picturesqueness and couleur 
locate. His adventure on board the pirogue " Espag- 
nolo" is a caricature; his amourettes with une tr enfr- 
ame dejeunes files is a farce; his conquests here, there, 
and everywhere, are a Gallic dream. The Spaniards 
naturally deride the following conversation which took 
place between M. Arago and the Consul de France at 
Tenerife : — 

u M. le Gouverneur (D. Pedro de Laborias) ne sait 
pas ecrire,''' says the traveller. 

" Non," replies the Consul. 

" Et son secretaire ? " 

" II ne sait pas lire." 

" C'est different ! De pareils hommes represented une 
nation!''' 



122 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

A little further we find a prophecy? too false for a 
Tangier Jew. " Tenerife m'offrit bientot un spectacle 
plus effrayant encore (than Gibraltar). C'etait toujours 
une Espagne, mais une Espagne sans avenir, parcequ'elle 
luttait sans energie contre les maux presents qui Teems 
aient. Tenerife mourra vaincu par un brick de guerre ; 
ou ecrassee sous une colere de son volcan. On 
s'echappe de Saint Croiz comme on fuit le cadavre 
d'un reptile a demi-putrifiee, et Saint Croiz pourtant est 
une capitale." "With respect to Kelson's failure, M. 
Arago sagely remarks, " Qu'un de nos amiraux y soit 
envoy e ; il n'y laissera ni ses vaisseaux, ni ses soldats, ni 
ses drapeaux, et nous aurons Tile." I am not aware that 
French admirals usually succeed when Englishmen fail : 
in fact, there are some cases to the contrary. If I re- 
member right, the French admiral, Du Guai Trouin, 
landed, in a.d. 1711, at St. Vincent, and was beaten back 
by the unarmed inhabitants with stones ; and, of course, 
M. Arago, when proposing a gun-brig to capture Santa 
Cruz, forgets a certain place called Saragossa, where the 
flower of the French army was 

11 Foiled by a -woman's arm before a broken wall." 

And now — after this galimatias raisonne — of the 
other work, which caused even more excitement than 
the former. 

It is called "Sixteen Years of an Artist's Life in 
Morocco, Spain, and the Canary Islands/'* Unfortu- 

* In two vols. London: Hurst and Blackett, 1859. 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 123 

nately there is very little of art in it, and the places visited 
are only Tangiers, in Morocco ; Gibraltar,, Cadiz, and 
Seville, in Spain; Tenerife and Grand Canary, in the 
Fortunate Islands. It is hard to write a book upon 
such trite paths. "A vagabond from a baby," the 
authoress left, without date, England at the age of 
eighteen, stayed nine years at Tangiers, and quitted it 
when her husband was appointed Yice-Consul at Tan- 
giers, August 30 of 1841. Positive ideas are easily 
formed at the age of eighteen, but even ladies should 
be expected to correct them a little later in life. The 
characteristics of the book are a fine appreciation of 
neighbourly shortcomings : all " catch it/' Moroccans 
and Spaniards, French and English ; and attempts at 
speculating upon abstruse subjects which call to mind 
the old lines, 

"What a pity that "beautiful women 

Talk of what they don't understand ; " 

or unpolite Dr. Darwin's definition of feminine com- 
munication, 

' ' Hear the pretty ladies talk, 
Tittle tattle, tittle tattle ; 
Like their pattens as they walk, 
Pittle pattle, pittle pattle. " 

And the pity is greater when, as in this case, and 
that of Mrs. C. M., an Anglo-Indian authoress (" Six 
Years in India," Bentley, 1857), the unfortunate peison 
least concerned in the book — I mean the husband — has 



124 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

to endure all its pains and penalties. One year after the 
publication, the authoress was transferred to Portland 
(Maine) ; and her enemies, left to tell their own tale, 
declare the book was written to punish those who had 
been backward with their hospitality. 

We learn, however, from it a few things. That the 
beauties of Morocco are " generally idle, good-natured, 
gossipping, and frivolous, possessing — in fact, all those 
small peculiarities of character that distinguish women 
in our own Christian country/' That "in Spain gene- 
rally, and in the Canary Islands, the religion which 
thinketh no evil, and that delights in doing good, is 
unfortunately at a very low ebb." After a glimpse at 
Cadiz and Seville — where the time seems to have been 
spent in a low boarding-house — and a more extensive 
experience of Tenerife, the lady pronounces upon Spain 
and the Spaniards, their character, customs, religion, and 
institutions. This is what the foreigner does who judges 
England by the standard of Leicester Square and Sierra 
Leone. We are told that the Government employe is a 
perfect pest, besides being no better than he should 
be — besides, does he not despise trade, commerce, 
merchant-princedom? That "the Peak of Tenerife is 
more than 15,000 feet above sea-level." That "the 
faith of the people in various absurdities of divination 
is irresistible ; " as if united Europe would not show 
ten times as much superstition ! — as if the lady had 
never heard of Halloween and Co. ! That the " primi- 
tive people of the island is a race of beastly savages." 
That every girl has a novio or lover; and that the 



A DAY AT TENERIFE. 125 

authoress was tempted to rebuke one who denied the 
soft impeachment with ' ' tell that to the horse marines ! " 
That a " disgraceful system of peculation, of oppression, 
and of robbery has long been the disgrace of Spanish 
officials." I think we will stop at this point. 

Eeturning on board about noon on Monday, 2nd 
September, we banged a gun, shook hands with the 
strangers, and stood out for blue water. Passing south- 
ward we saw the wash of the waves at a place where, on 
the 12th June, 1857, the African steam ship " Niger " 
was wrecked. Beyond it lies the Castle of San Juan, with 
the lazy little Spanish windmills guarding that entrance 
to the town. The low ledge of seaboard now showed an 
inclination upwards to a ridge, distant about three miles, 
and some 1500 feet above sea-level. It is crowned by 
Laguna, the abbreviation of San Cristobal de la Laguna, 
for three years the capital of Tenerife. The tall spires 
and white houses leading to this Citta Yecchia glistened 
in beautiful contrast with the blue waves at our feet. 
A ribbon denoting a broad road ran straight up the 
acclivity through a land of corn-fields, and cactus 
plantations, with occasional quintas and an old fort. 
Nothing green there met the eye save shrubs standing 
singly or in small clumps ; but we were in the depth of 
the dead season. Beyond this ridge of yellow wavy 
ground were alternate "backs" and gullies with ser- 
rated edges, an iron land, in long perspective, visible 
only when we had placed some distance between us, 
with intervals denoted only by tints, blue-brown below, 
blue-pure above, less and less distinct. Here there 



126 WANDEEINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

was none of the scene-painting flatness which the 
limpidity of the air usually gives to such views. Fore- 
shortened to the eye from, our ship's quarterdeck, the 
Guimar Hills rose above one another till they culminated 
in the shoulders of the Atlantean Peak. Apparently 
upon, but situated behind the dome, is a dwarf pro- 
jection distinctly visible: a mere inch represented a 
basial circumference of more than two geographical 
miles, and 537 feet in height: — few would suspect 
that in this smooth inch they see that mighty mass at 
whose base the toil-worn traveller pauses, and after 
surmounting four-fifths of the mountain, finds his heart 
quails at beholding a " ( Pelion upon Ossa piled,' so 
stern, so stony, and so steep ! " 

As the afternoon advanced, wreaths and fillets of 
fleecy pack, like the purest lambs' wool, floated upon 
the head of ]\ T ivaria, winch rose steeple-like above the 
huge ridge representing its church — a wintry land in 
this sub-tropical summer — whilst upon the waving 
stream-like lava beds, once liquid now solid sheets of 
rock, and destined to be the sites of fertile fields, the 
burning sun poured its unclouded rays in a prodigal 
shower of light and colour, and purple became blue, 
and blue, a cerulean stone grey, till distance hid from 
our eyes one of the masterpieces of Nature's work, 
one of the world's great landmarks, and a pyramid of 
condensed vapours looming out of the sea, upon the 
verge of the northern horizon, was all that remained to 
us of Tenerife. 



CHAPTER IV. 

A DAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATHURST. 

9th September. 

11 The grave, 
Dark and untimely, met my view." 

Leyden. 

Tuesday and Wednesday were stormy days. We 
had passed out of the south-west, which becomes a 
surface-current somewhere about 40° north lat., and 
had entered the region of the north-east Trades : they 
at first appeared in unlovely guise, or rather they 
yielded to the southern blasts. The sea had the long 
roll of the ferry-line between L'pool and Boston, U.S. 
Mother Carey's chickens — who is the old party, and 
where does she roost ? — flitted about our wake, the 
rain drizzled from time to time, and J3olus took liber- 
ties with our mizenmast. On Wednesday, the 4th, the 
Trades assumed their wonted aspect — a hot sun, contrast- 
ing with a crisp cold wind, that caused Neptuue's flocks 
to gambol over the long ridges rising from the cool 
green plain. The firmament appeared high above our 
heads — as we enter the tropics it will be lowered, and 
the sea will exchange its present bright and lively 
aspect for the eternal monotonous roller of the Atlantic 



128 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Ocean. We had reason to believe that we had quitted 
the parallels,, north of which, according to the Sons 
of Albion, health and comfort have made their homes. 
Noon of the same day saw us abreast of Cape Blanco, 
to Northern what Cape Negro is to Southern Africa. 
The only remarkable events in its life are its being 
named Ganaria Extrema by Ptolemy, and its being re- 
discovered by one Goncalez Baldeza in a.d. 1440. 

We are now plunging deep into the tropics, and on 
Thursday night we had our first tornado. It is seldom 
found in these latitudes at this season, but it had been 
brought up by late southerly gales. There was nothing 
new in it but the name. The phenomenon is absolutely 
the same in Eastern as in Western Africa, — an embryo 
hurricane, bat of shorter duration and inferior violence. 
The word is corrupted and usually derived from the 
Portuguese tornado, "returned," alluding to the sun reced- 
ing from the tropic of Cancer ; others deduce it from the 
Spanish tomeado, "thunder," or tormenta, " a storm," 
in Portuguese trovdo, or trovoada. I should rather 
deduce it from some bastard Italian word, making it 
synonymous with the cyclone, or circular storm of modern 
days. Its most remarkable feature is its returning over 
head, or walking round and re-attacking from the oppo- 
site quarter. The usual time is before and after the 
rains, when the electrical conditions of earth and air 
undergo important changes. The tornado season shares 
with the African year, the rains, the smokes, and the 
dries. Its greater frequency near and upon the ocean, 
and the fact that it generally appears after hot sunny 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHVRST. 129 

weather, reminds us of the old electro-chemical theory, 
that storms arise from the disengagement of electricity 
by the evaporation of sea-water. On the other hand, 
the aspect of the atmosphere, and the swiftness of the 
movements, suggest that the high tension of rolling 
wind-driven clouds, disengages electricity by friction. 
Very distinct warnings appear, sometimes for hours, in 
a suffocating sultriness — a deep stillness and silence, as 
if Nature was preparing for the fray. This is easily 
felt, and forms the best guide. Barometer and aneroid 
are here, unless scientifically observed, of little, use — so 
uncertain, that the severest atmospheric derangements 
hardly affect them to the extent of half an inch. 
During the paroxysm the mercury and the aneroid 
hand move with little tremulous jerks up and down, 
and. at the end there is a slight rise. Meanwhile 
a dark cloudbank settles upon the horizon, perhaps 
opposed to a sun burning in clearest air, and there are 
dark flashes of lightning, so distant, however, that their 
reports are inaudible. Some remark that this gather- 
ing is more frequent at the turn of the tide. Now is 
the time for making all snug on board. It may be 
too late when the arch has distinctly formed, and how- 
ever threatening be the aspect of the heavens in other 
directions, it must be borne in mind that the tornado 
invariably sets off the land. I have never seen the 
"ox-eye," as the older travellers call the nucleus of 
the storm. It always appears to me to rise from the 
horizon in the form of a rugged arch, outliers of unat- 
tached cloud, and dark pendent edges, which, however, 



130 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

become more regular as they draw nearer. At this 
stage there is often a peculiar haziness not unlike a fog 
in the atmosphere. As the huge arch, often 100° long, 
rises towards the zenith, occasionally setting backwards 
and forwards, the vista of sky which it discloses, showing 
the want of depth in the cloud bank, is of a ghastly 
yellow hue, or sometimes a pale dead grey. Presently 
there is a cold blast, the arch moves forward with por- 
tentous speed, the sea shows a line of black or steely 
blue where it passes, and all know the tornado is 
" down upon them.'" It sometimes bursts so suddenly, 
that boats cannot take in sail. A few more such gusts, 
often quick and successive, accompanied by many-hued 
lightning, rosy, yellow, red, white, and blue, and either 
zigzag or globular, bring on the crisis. The firmament 
is now a sheet of vivid flashing fire, with chains of elec- 
tricity which seem to shoot into earth or sea. In one 
case I distinctly observed the direction of the zigzag to 
be from the earth upwards. The crushing rolling 
thunder sounds unearthly, like the clash of brazen 
clouds or the encounter of huge metallic bodies, without 
half a second's interval from the parent flash, and inces- 
santly repeated to the terror of all creation. Meanwhile 
the ears are deafened by the rush and roar of a mighty 
wind, perhaps the most awful sound that awful nature 
knows. The trees are twisted sideways like natural 
vanes as it were. There is a curious correspondence in 
the number of rafales or gusts ; another peculiarity is 
that there seems to be no shelter from the tornado; 
even under a tall cliff it will blow as if the place were 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUBST. 131 

exposed to it. And that nothing may be wanting to 
the terrors of elemental war, a big drop of rain an- 
nounces another presence; another and another succeed, 
and in a minute, before cloak is ready, rattling torrents 
of tropical downfall — now 

Blown all aslant, a driving, dashing rain, 

then, like a falling wall of water, — beat down the 
highest waves, or flood the surface of earth. After a 
pleasant twenty minute, the fury of the fiery element 
begins to subside ; the rumbling sound, distinctly per- 
ceptible along the ground, ceases, and the livid sulphu- 
rous flickerings, like a huge furnace, are apparently ex- 
tinguished by these water-pots of the Danaids. Heavy 
sullen rain, a pitiless pelting, with occasional gusts and 
long pealing thunder-claps, often solitary, and totally 
unlike aught heard in temperate regions, ensues, and 
after a total of forty minutes, there may be a dead calm. 
One draws breath after such scenes ; perhaps trees are 
torn, houses are unroofed, mud huts are thrown down, 
bells are cracked by sudden contraction and expansion, 
and vessels are driven from their moorings. The phe- 
nomenon appears to be very local, — hardly perhaps five 
miles in breadth, — and in some places tornados will be 
seen to blow in different directions, both well within sight. 
Often also, after working round to the opposite or fair 
quarter, they re-form upon the horizon, and once more 
extend to the zenith. They are sometimes double, one 
following the other from the same direction, as if the 
first had not thoroughly exhausted itself. They are not 

k2 



132 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

without danger. During my first year in West Africa 
I was on board a ship when she was struck by lightning; 
on another occasion I had a narrow escape from the 
fluid; and on the third, the wind blew down a large tree 
top, that fell close to my sleeping hammock. Those 
that occur at night in the height of the tornado season 
can hardly be described without an apparent exaggera- 
tion. They must be seen and heard to be understood. 

Our first tornado, however, was mild. During the 
fury and acme of the outburst the waters boiled as if an 
earthquake or a volcano had shaken them, and compelled 
us to put in the deadlights, under peril of swamping. 
The thunder and lightning were not worse than many 
storms that I have seen in England ; nor was the rain at 
all remarkable. On the next morning, however, all was 
still, the sky cloudy, and the atmosphere damp and 
warm like a steam bath, and this appears to me to be 
the rule. According to Dr. Madden, a tornado has sunk 
the mercury 10° F., others have observed 20° F. It 
was probably only a temporary change caused by wind 
and rain. Our initiatory specimen afforded none of 
those " exquisitely delightful sensations w which, follow- 
ing these battles of the elements, render them at Sierra 
Leone a matter of hope rather than of fear. Perhaps 
however, they are more beneficial on the outskirts of the 
tropics than near the equator. 

About noon on Friday, the 0th of September, we 
sighted in the offing Ovedec, or Cape Verde, rightly so 
called, — the discovery of Diniz Fernandez, a.d. 1446. 
It is the Trafalgar, the westernmost point of Africa, 17° 3', 



A DAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATHUBST. 133 

from the meridian of Greenwich. At first appeared the 
Two Paps, upon the taller of which the authorities of 
Senegal have erected a lighthouse. Presently, from 
beneath the horizon emerged dots which formed a long 
low line of green vegetation. As we approached, the 
true Cape appeared, with its outline the Almadies rocks 
— a ledge mostly sunk, but here and there rising above 
the foam in wicked-looking diabolitos, or black masses, 
of which the largest is a die-shaped slab. The Two 
Paps are brightly green and well wooded; their sea- 
wall is a precipice, which apparently drops sheer into 
the wave, and in places patches of yellow sand line the 
base. We are now on the threshold of tropical luxu- 
riance, which in Western Africa extends South from 
the Senegal river (N. lat. 16° 30'), whereas in the east 
the arid region of the coast reaches to nearly the 
equator. 

The distance was of course too great to sight on the 
right hand the Cape de Verde Islands, which, according 
to some, are the Insulse Beatse, beyond which the 
ancients had no certain knowledge of Africa ; others 
make the Cape the Hesperian Keras, and apply this de- 
scription to the island : — " Contra hoc promontorium 
Gorgonis insulse narrantur Gorgonum quondam domus 
bidui navigatione distantes a continento." (Plin. lib. vi. 
c. 36.) D'Anville places them among the Bissagos. 
This, then, was the austral extreme of the world, of 
the whole world to civilized man 450 years ago. The 
islands are salient points in the geography of the eastern 
Atlantic, sterile, grim, with serrated ridges and isolated 



134 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

peaks sometimes 8000 feet high, and their formation 
points them out as continuations of the great Sahara. 
As we advanced we were visited by birds and butter- 
flies, wasps and mosquitoes, from the humid regions 
around this Green Cape, the western Prasum Promon- 
torium. We then steamed by the little green-capped 
rocks called the Madeleines, and after another hour a 
curtain of coast, opening before us, disclosed the red 
citadel and the subject town of Goree, the Gibraltar of 
West Africa. It lies twelve hours from Bathurst, and 
was once a mail station : presently however it ceased 
to pay. The site is a volcanic island, ditched and 
defended from the shore by the respectable Dakar Strait, 
some 3000 yards broad. At our distance we could see 
but four vessels lying in the excellent roadstead to the 
north-east of the settlement. It has a semaphore, a 
good quay, and fine stores, principally built by French 
soldiers, who receive extra pay. Its garrison is 600 
marine infantry. The governor ranks below him of 
Senegal, but he reports direct to the minister at Paris. 

The word Goree is clean forgotten in England j per- 
haps even the humorous and talented gentleman who 
penned the following passage would have difficulty in 
telling you exactly its whereabouts. 

" Here is a placid-looking little old man, trotting 
briskly down John-street, Tottenham-court-road. He is 
about seventy, apparently, but walks erect. He has a 
natty little three-cornered hat, a well-brushed black suit, 
rather white at the seams, grey silk stockings, and silver 
buckles in his shoes. Two powdered ailes de pigeon 



A BAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUBST. 135 

give relief to his simple good-humoured countenance, 
and his hair is gathered behind into a neat pigtail, 
which leaves a meandering line of powder on the back 
of his coat. His linen is very white, so are his hands, 
on one of the lingers of which he wears a ring of price. 
He lodges in a little street in the neighbourhood I have 
mentioned, pays his rent regularly, has frequent friendly 
chats with the bookstall-keepers, to whom he is an 
excellent customer, and with whom he is highly popular; 
pats all the children on the head, and smiles affably at 
the maid-servants. The neighbours set him down as a 
retired schoolmaster, a half-pay navy purser, or, perhaps, 
a widower with a small independence. At any rate he is 
a pleasant body, and quite the gentleman. This is about 
the close of his Day. Would you like to know his Night? 
Read the Old Bailey Sessions paper : ask the Bow-street 
officers, who have been tracking him for years, and have 
captured him at last : who are carrying him handcuffed 
to Newgate, to stand his trial for murder. His double 
was Governor Wall, Commandant of Goree, who was 
hanged for the murder of Sergeant Armstrong, whom 
he caused to be flogged to death ; very strongly adjuring 
the ne^ro who inflicted the torture to cut the victim's 
liver out." 

A mystery clothes the place — even the 'cute Mr. P. 
of Philadelphia has failed to explain it. In 1831 it was 
in miserable condition, now it is in first-rate order. It 
is an outpost of the colony of Senegal, where the French, 
agreeably to their custom, have organised a powerful 
military force of 2500 European soldiers, and 8000 



136 WAXDERIXGS IX WEST AFRICA. 

native auxiliaries, with a squadron of thirteen steamers, 
to ensure mobility, many of them Crimean gunboats, and 
highly effective for river navigation. The object is of 
course to shake hands with Algeria, to link the North 
African possessions with their future conquests south of 
the Sahara, and eventually with the rich mineral lands 
lying eastward of Senegal; and already the territory 
almost equals Algeria in extent, with a directly subject 
population of 100,000 souls. Goree connected by an 
electric wire with St. Louis of Senegal, the head- 
quarters, is of use to vessels delayed by the river bar ; 
and Senegal will, of coarse, be the first base of all opera- 
tions intended to work northwards and eastwards.* 

The English hug themselves in the idea that the 
French are bad colonists — much on the principle that 
one Briton can always beat three Gauls ; if so, France, 
like China, is improving. Algeria, Senegal, and Siam 
ought somewhat to modify our opinions. She has 
still one grand fault — an excessive bureaucracy, which 
of course engenders a rage for over-government ; this 
is transient. In the days of Louis XIY. the principle 
of non-interference in commercial affairs was recog- 

* The Senegal river is navigable, even during the dries, for 200 
miles above the military posts, Richard Toll, and Daganna. One 
hundred and thirty French leagues in straight line from the mouth lead 
to the Fort St. Joseph de Galam, whose palmy days will be now re- 
newed. It was founded in 1697 by the Sieur de Brue, Director- General 
of the French factory. He ascended the river 600 or 800 miles, and 
on return offered with 1200 men to annex the mines of Bambuk, which 
had so profitably been worked by the Portuguese. The French Govern- 
ment refusing, stout-hearted De Brue applied himself to the gum 
trade. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHTJRST. 137 

nised, and will be recognised again. She now requires 
a fleet, which will always keep up the colonies, and 
an outlet for her army — Madagascar or Mexico — which 
will ever provide fresh conquests. She begins on the right 
principle by sending her best men, naval and military, 
to her colonies. She shows her force, and impresses 
the natives before proceeding to treat ; she educates the 
children of the chiefs, and compels her lieges all, under 
a penalty, to speak French.* This warlike imperial 
colonial policy contrasts strongly with our Quaker-like 
peacefulness ; about Gambia the natives have sneeringly 
declared that they will submit to the French, who are men, 
but not to us. And the large establishments at Goree 
and St. Louis have, of course, drawn away from us the 
Gambia trade. France now extends her arm to the 
falls of the Senegal river. She first beat the Fulas, once 
so bold, and then she organised and gave flags to them. 
She has checked the incursions of the Moors upon the 
gum-gatherers of the Sahara. This new policy was 
inaugurated in 1854. 

St. Louis, the capital and centre of this warlike 
colony, lately commanded by that distinguished soldier 
Colonel (now M. le General) Faidherbe,t is not fortified, 

* The "Ecole des Otages" was founded at St. Louis about 1855. 
It instructs some twenty youths, the sons of the principal native 
families ; after two or three years, they receive command of a canton, 
or, if they distinguish themselves, they may complete their education — 
as did the son of the last Queen of Walo — in France. There are many 
primary schools for children of all classes, and the marabuts, or learned 
Moslems, are bound to send their pupils once a day to these French 
institutions ; a measure not yet extended, I believe, to Algeria. 

f This officer has commanded six years in the Basin cf the Senegal, 



138 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

but it boasts of fine buildings, of which the most remark- 
able is the military hospital. The city contains 15,000 
souls ; as many as forty ladies, the •wives and daughters 
of civil and military officials, have been seen at a single 
ball. The works are superintended by French soldiers, 
who can labour where an Englishman would drink him- 
self to death. The colony has a perfect little army. 
The commandant can take the field with 2500 troops, 
armed with double-barreled rifles, and 1500 will appear 
upon the Champ de Mars. The force consists of ODe 
regiment marine infantry, one corps black Yoltigeurs, and 
two Trench batteries of light field artillery, 6 -pounders, 
drawn by mules, whilst 100 spahis, mostly convicts, are 
mounted as lancers, and dressed in fez and burnous. 
Besides these, are the trained native auxiliaries. 

Since 1854, under undue competition, the trade of this 

colony has greatly fallen off; nor will it recover till there 

is less of protection and of interference. At present 

the revenue of Senegal and its dependencies is — 

Customs (2 per cent, ad val.) . . . £12,000 

Other sources 8,000 

and has published in the "Annuaire du Senegal pour 1861," an 
account of his proceedings, beginning with the early hostilities in 1854, 
and endirig with some twenty treaties of peace, concluded between the 
strangers and the natives. During his government, admirable surveys 
of the country have been made, and French travellers ha\e penetrated 
to the Western Sahara, the mountains of Ardran, the oasis of Tagant, 
the Brakna and Baraluk countries, Futa-Jalo, and the sources of the 
Senegal river. English and French commerce are now running a race 
towards Timbuktu. We may hope to reach the goal via the Niger, 
our rivals via the Senegal ; but unless something more be done we 
shall lose the day. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATRURST. 139 

Giving a poor sum total of £20,000 against a yearly 
expenditure of £160,000. The yearly exportation, 
according to the Journal des Debats, is upwards of 
thirty millions of francs. 

The exports from Senegal are ostrich feathers, ivory, 
and gold (in 1860 equal to £2450), hides, horns, and 
live cattle, wax, palm-oil, gum Senegal, which has de- 
clined from 40 to 18 sous per lb., and ground nuts — 
better than those of the Gambia, because cleaner, being 
handpicked and not threshed. Of the latter article, 
Bathurst exported in 1860 about 10,000 tons ; Senegal 
some 1588. But the former was or became principally 
Trench property, and the next year told a different tale 
of proportion. Cotton grows spontaneously, and the 
people collect it for their own use. The local " Admi- 
ninistration " offered in 1860 some forty centimes per 
kilo for uncleaned stuff — an excessive price. There 
were some hopes of inducing English capitalists to em- 
bark in the affair ; but, as the Journal des Debats justly 
remarks, "lis se sont retires, probablement pour la 
meme cause qui ferme nos colonies aux etrangers : la 
difficulte d'y fournir des etablissements agricoles, et de 
gouverner leurs affaires comme il leur plait, en se con- 
formant aux lois generales." 

Ninety miles beyond Cape Yerde, and a total run of 
950 knots, placed us at the mouth of the Gambia 
river. We are now about to land in the Guinea region. 

The word is sub judice. According to Barbot, it is 
derived from Ginahoa, a province north of the Senegal, 
and the first Negrotic region discovered by the Portu- 



140 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

guese, who then extended the name to four-fifths of the 
coast ; but is there any such place ? Others propose 
Ghana or Ghina, the modern Kano, an Arabo-Sudan 
Empire, which was wholly unmaritime. Others advance 
the claims of Jenne, Jennah, or Jinne, the Moslem 
commercial emporium south of the Niger. It is called 
by early travellers the Land of Gold, which was there 
brought by the Mandengas and the Moslems of Bure. 
Others take it from Jenna, a coast town, once a place 
of note governed by an officer under the king of 
Gambia. There are objections to all these theories; 
but, at any rate, the word is a reality. In 1481-2 
D. John II. of Portugal assumed the style and title of 
Senor de Guine, and the English applied its name to a 
coin. 

As the West African coast has few barriers or dis- 
tinct divisions, the limits of Guinea are laid down appa- 
rently arbitrarily by every writer. Its utmost bounds 
have been from 20° north latitude, to 20° south lati- 
tude, afterwards the extent of Sierra Leone jurisdiction, 
bounded, in fact, by Senegambia and the southern 
coast regions. In the fifteenth century it seems to have 
comprised the country between the mouth of the Gambia 
river, north latitude 13° 30', and Angola 10° south 
latitude; yet an old map in my possession, dating 1558, 
restricts it to the region immediately north of Cape 
Palmas.* Bosman (1700), describing Guinea, begins 

* Fac-simile. "Africa, extrahido do Atlas MS. feito por Diogo 
Homem em 15/58, existente no Museo Britaimico: publicando pelo condo 
Ue Lavradio em 1660." 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUBST. 141 

with the west of the Gold Coast, and leaves his reader 
at "Cape Lopez di Gonsalvez " as the uttermost point 
of Guinea and its gulf, Angola beginning south of it. 
Others divide the coast into North Guinea, or Nigritia, 
between the Senegal and Gambia rivers, where the 
Daradi iEthiopes occupied the lands of the present 
Mandenga ; South Guinea Proper to the Jamoer or 
Camaroons river, or according to others to the Eernan 
Yaz river or Cape Lopez, the lands of the Achalinces 
iEthiopes, and lastly, Western or Lower ./Ethiopia, the 
country south of Cape Lopez, and belonging to the Hes- 
perii iEthiopes. For Ethiopia, which originally signified 
all Africa south, south-east, and south-west of Egypt, 
has been extended by the moderns to the whole south; 
eastern Ethiopia bordering on the Indian Ocean, 
Western Ethiopia on the Ethiopic or South Atlantic 
Ocean. In our maps Northern Guinea is the name 
still given to the region bounded west by Liberia, east 
by the Camaroons mountains; Lower Guinea from Cape 
Lopez to S. Paul de Loanda. 

The limits mostly adopted by modern writers, who 
divide Guinea into Proper or Upper, and Lower, are as 
follows : — The former, the northern, extends from Cape 
Yerga in 10° 19' north latitude, with a coast-line of 
2000 miles, to CapeLopez in 0° 36' south. This would 
comprise the various divisions of Sierra Leone; the 
Three Coasts — Grain, Ivory, and Gold — and the three 
bights, Benin, Biafra, and Pannava or Pannavia. 
Others, with more correctness, prefer to Cape Lopez 
the Camaroons mountain in 4° north latitude as the 



142 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

southern limit; that gigantic pile forming a barrier 
between lands greatly differing in geological formation, 
population, and polity. This reduces the coast-line to 
1500 miles. Lower or Southern Guinea thus com- 
mences either at the Camaroons mountain or at Cape 
Lopez, and stretches to Benguela in 16° south latitude. 
It is also known as Southern Ethiopia. Popularly, the 
three Bights are excluded from Guinea, which would 
thus consist only of Sierra Leone and the Three Coasts, 
a line of about 1800 to 2000 miles. No one has 
attempted to lay down an average inland depth for 
Guinea. It is inhabited by a number of tribes stil] little 
known ; and in these days it is a word of little use ; 
rather a name of literary curiosity than one of conveni- 
ence. There is no such kingdom, and there never was ; 
moreover, the term is utterly unknown to the natives. In 
modern naval parlance, the littoral is portioned out into 
three divisions — the northern, from the Senegal to the 
Bights of Benin and Biafra ; the Bights division ; and 
the south coast, from Cape St. John, in 1° 9' 7" north 
latitude, to 20° south latitude. 

The annals of European and English progress upon 
this coast present little of interest beyond a succession 
of dates and names — perhaps the only reliable part of 
history. Suffice it to say, that the first settlement by 
white men was, according to general belief, the Castle 
and Fort of St. George, afterwards called Elmina, built 
in 1481, and made the head-quarters of the Gold Coast. 
Eor about fifty years the Portuguese monopolised the 
field; and, to use the quaint language of Bosman, 



A DAY AT ST MARTS, BATHUEST. 143 

" served for setting- clogs to spring the game, which, as 
soon as they had clone, was seized by others." Such is 
popular history, copied by one author from another. At 
a future time I will discuss the subject of Trench 
priority of claim to discovering this coast, and the 
counter-arguments of Portuguese writers. 

From sunrise the sea had changed its blue for a dull, 
dirty, muddy green; and the leadsman ever sang out, 
"by the mark, nine," and "by the deep, ten." Low 
land loomed on both sides, with tufted mangroves, often 
based apparently upon the waves, showing that we were 
entering an estuary; and the channel soon narrowed 
from seven miles to three. " Gambia " is said to mean 
clear water, surely a misnomer, it is as muddy as the 
Mersey. As we approached the land, the sun burst 
through the thick yellow swamp-reek and the dew- 
clouds with a sicklv African heat. Far to the rio-ht, 
in the Port St. Mary, stood a whitewashed building 
upon a dwarf red cliff. On our left, the river's proper 
right bank, was Port Bullen, an outpost on a tongue of 
land dead-green as paint, and scattered with tall Ben- 
tangs (Pullum ceiba), or bombax trees. This silk-cotton 
differs greatly in shape from its congener in Eastern 
Africa. The bole is thorny, the buttresses are larger, 
several trunks rarely anastomose, the branches seldom 
stand out horizontally, nor are the leaves disposed in 
distinct festoons. It is everywhere, however, a noble 
tree, useful for shade, and supplying the people with 
canoe materials and a poor cotton. At Port Bullen, 
which is about one hour's row from Bathurst, there is a 



144 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

detachment of one officer — alias Commandant and Go- 
vernor of the Queen's Possessions in the Barra country — 
and seventeen men. The place is by no means whole- 
some,* and there is no high ground within reach. 

Another half hour placed before us Bathurst in full 
view. It suggested somewhat the idea of a small 
European watering-place, and contains barely 5,000 
souls. The site has none of those undulations which 
render a place picturesque; everything is horizontal, 
straight-lined, and barely above sea level. Beginning 
from the westward are a few detached houses, a colonial 
hospital, a military ditto, the Governor's quarters, large 
barracks — upon whose turret floated, or rather depended 
the flag of St. George, the market, the slaveyard, 
and the esplanade, behind whose line of trees lay the 
mass of the settlement. The houses might be those of 
Byculla, Bombay — in fact, they date from the same epoch 
— large uncompact tenements, washed glistening white 
or yellow, with slates, tiles, or shingles, which last curl 
up in the sun like feathers. Further on are heaps of 
native huts, like beehives, or a crowded rickyard, rising 
from swamp and sand, and terminating abruptly up the 
river. There is an Octagon, not a concert-room or chapel, 
but a coal depot, and there are two one-gun martello 
towers at the angles of the fort looking towards the 



* Capt. Hewett ("West Africa," chap, xvi.) says it is the most 
healthy spot in the river, hut that is not much. I like Capt. Hewett's 
hook, though critics and reviewers have treated it badly : it tells the 
truth bluntly, especially upon such ticklish subjects as the liberated 
Africans and the slave trade. 



A DAY AT ST MARTS, BATHUBST. 145 

town, which may relieve the view, but which look any- 
thing but dangerous. A nearer glance shows the house 
walls stained and gangrened with mildew; a fearful 
vegetation of Guinea grass, palms, plantains, cotton 
trees, and caoutchouc figs, which at a distance resemble 
whitethorns, occupies every inch of soil, and the inun- 
dations of the river sometimes find their way into the 
ground floor. In fact, the island and settlement of St. 
Mary (of old a cemetery) seem to be selected for un- 
healthiness, for proximity to mud, mangrove, miasma, 
and malaria. 

The island is an elbow about five miles long by two 
broad, bounded eastward by Oyster Creek, a lagoon- 
like branch of the Gambia River; westward by the 
main mouth of the stream. It is an island within an 
island ; the latter, also called St. Mary, is the northern- 
most of that mass of continental islands which, formed 
by the Gambia and the Cacheo River, extend south to 
the Rio Grande.* It is, in fact, the delta of the 
Gambia, and is marked in most maps as the " Combo," 
"Forni," and "Feloop" country. St. Mary-the-Less 
is a mere strip, a sandpatch, which potent heats and 
tropical rains clothe with a vivid and profuse vegetation. 
Water may everywhere be found three feet beneath the 
surface, but it is brackish and bad. There is hardly any 
versant, — in places the town is below the level of the 
river; — excellent brick sewers have been built, but the 
rains prefer to sop the soil. And lest the island be 

* Explored about 1446 by Tristao Nunez, who was killed, probably 
for kidnapping. 

TOL. I. I, 



146 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

gradually carried away, there is a penalty for removing 
even a pailful of sand from the beach. 

Bathurst was unknown in the days of Park, when 
traders went up the river to Jilifri, nearly opposite 
Port James, and Pisania. The site was bought from 
the Mandenga chief of Kombo — a small annual tribute, 
still paying, — together with the land called the English 
" mile." Pirst called Leopold, and presently Bathurst, 
after the minister of that name, the actual town was 
built in 1816, under orders of Sir Charles Macarthy, 
after whom an island in the upper stream has been 
christened. The settlement, designed for the use of 
liberated Africans, was erected by Lieutenant-Colonel 
Brereton and Captain Alexander Grant. In 1821 it was 
made, like Cape Coast Castle and the Gold Coast, a 
dependency of Sierra Leone, whose jurisdiction, after the 
last of the African companies was abolished, extended 
from 20° N. to 20° S. Now it is an independent 
government. Like all European settlements of that 
date, the site is execrable and the buildings excellent. 

We anchored off Brown's Wharf, one of the dwarf 
stages of woodwork whose principal use seems to be that 
of affording standing-room to the juvenile piscators of 
Bathurst. When the mail bags were gone, we received 
a visit from the Postmaster, who, in default of the 
sick health officer, allowed us pratique. We reflected 
severely on the excessive "cheek" of questioning the 
health of new comers from Old England, when the 
chances are that all the Bathurstians are dying of 
dysentery and yellow fever. A facetious second mate, 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATEURST. 147 

who always spoke of Lis eye as " she/' pointed out to 
me with a grin a small gathering of bullocks and buffa- 
loes — the latter word used here for all cattle with 
humps — declaring that he had never seen so much meat 
at a time, a pig and a pumpkin being the usual supply 
in the Bathurst market. He also recounted how a 
friend, having employment and salary here, had left the 
place after a month on account of the indecent size and 
fullness of the cemetery. Near us lay H.M.S. " Dover/' 
a neat little steamer, which had lately been repaired, 
almost at the expense of a new investment : theoretically, 
she carries the monthly mails to Macarthy's Island; 
practically, she is found more useful at head-quarters. 
Certainly no settlement on this fatal coast should be left 
without the means of ready escape. The old " Albert/' 
of Nigerian celebrity, and immortalised as one of the 
ill-starred three which brought Captain Trotter's expedi- 
tion to grief, lies in a ruinous state on the left bank of 
the river. After her palmy days she was bought by 
Government for colonial and mercantile purposes, and 
an annual allowance of 2000/. was granted for repairs. 
She died probably of grief from the abuse heaped upon 
her by the Rev. Mr. Poole.' 55 ' 

The wind was rough, and the Bathurstian sharks are 
vivacious ; as usual, the knowing beasts will not touch 
feather nor rise at bait in harbour. We proceeded 

* Life, Scenery, and Customs in Sierra Leone and the Gambia. By 
T. G. Poole, D.D., Colonial and Garrison Chaplain of Sierra Leone. 
London : Bentley, 1850. The grant alluded to above will be found in 
vol. ii. chap. 6, and those following it, describing Mr. Poole's ascent 
of the Gambia iu the ill-starred "Albert." 

L 2 



148 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. ¦ 

hygienically to lay in provaunt before landing, and 
whilst thus engaged we were visited by sundry officials 
— Dr. Martin, superintending surgeon ; Dr. Sherwood, 
colonial surgeon; the military store-keeper, Mr. Keane; 
Mr. Deputy Assistant-Commissary-General Blanc, to- 
gether with his aide, an old compagnon de voyage of " the 
consul's," Mr. Fryer. Mail days are holidays at Bathurst, 
as in other places " down coast ; ,J these gentlemen 
breakfasted with us, and hospitably invited us to their 
quarters on shore. It was drizzling rain; this, however, 
did not prevent us. At St. Mary's the seasons are simpli- 
fied to two — wet and dry. The former, which is con- 
sidered the more unhealthy, especially in the towns, 
begins in June and ends about mid-October ; November 
being a fine month. The latter rounds off the year. As 
usual in Africa, the most dangerous period is during the 
drying up of the waters, when the Tegeto-animal matter 
deposited in the swamps and hollows by rain and river 
is being distilled into miasma. The wettest months are 
July, August, and September. On the 9th August, 1861, 
there fell in twenty -four hours 9*12 inches, measured by 
pluviometer, and half the island was under water; on 
the 22nd July and the 4th September, the fall was 3'50 
inches. The lowest temperature is 62° (F.), but only 
when the high, dry harmattan, or east wind, blows from 
the Desert. The hottest months are March, April, and 
May, especially the latter, when the thermometer in the 
shady upper gallery of the hospital will show a maximum 
of 99° (F.), very near the point — 100° (F.) — when a man 
has a right to begin complaining of heat. For nine 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 149 

months in the year the wind blows from the west, with 
some northing and southing; yet "windward" at Bat- 
hurst means N. N. E. All throughout the coast there 
are periodical clearings off of the white population. In 
1859, about six months after Sierra Leone had lost half 
its number of Europeans, all died except those that 
could and would run away. And, after looking at the 
settlements — no wonder ! 

We transferred ourselves from boat to shore upon the 
miserable wharf, shaky piles driven into the sand and 
planked over. We walked up the main street or espla- 
nade, a broad promenade, with avenues of trees and 
drains of masonry, rendered necessary by the deep loose 
sand. There are several streets, upper and the lower — 
which run parallel with the beach — and they are con- 
nected by cross lanes. The decayed look of everything 
around, except the vegetation, impressed me painfully. 
The multiplicity of useless walls, the clumps of trees, 
and the greensward faintly suggest the idea of a semi- 
deserted single-regiment station in Western India. Our 
first visit was to the Commissariat, a roomy and sub- 
stantial edifice of stone and lime, with large open veran- 
dahs, here called piazzas, lofty apartments, galleries, and 
in fact all that an African house should be. Billiard 
tables and other comforts and conveniences are not 
wanting. I remarked Elands and Koodoo's horns, and 
learned that they came from the upper country, where 
there is everything of venery, from the sandpiper to the 
lion — which is common — the elephant and the hippopo- 
tamus. The sport around Bathurst is reduced to water- 



150 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

fowl, partridges — larger, stronger, and more finely pen- 
cilled than the European — a few antelope and "harness- 
deer." The town abounds in the natural scavenger, the 
galinazo, or turkey-buzzard, and a large species of the 
same kind. Our gallant captain bought a fine specimen 
of the true Egyptian ibis for a dollar. Here and there 
the tall, ill-proportioned Maraboo crane, moping, melan- 
choly, and with shoulders hunched up, ugly as a 
pelican, but wearing precious feathers on his back, 
squatted upon his leg joints, and looked particularly 
stupid. 

After a few minutes of " second breakfast," as it is 
locally called, at the Commissariat, we walked through 
the drizzle to see the town and the townspeople. The 
latter at once attracted my attention, and I found no 
difficulty in distinguishing at first sight Moslem from 
Kafir. The principal tribes, besides the Gipsy -like 
Eula, and the wild, half-naked pagan Jolu, are the 
Mandengas and Wolofs. The former, anciently called 
Mandingo, is a race of gentlemen and horsemen. I was 
surprised by their points of likeness to the Somal, who 
dwell about the same parallel of latitude on the East 
African Coast* — the long limbs, especially the fore-arm, 
tall lithe figures, high shoulders, small heads, and semi- 
Caucasian features. There is the usual African pecu- 
liarity in the toilette, — no two men are dressed alike. The 
costume is picturesque : a Phrygian bonnet, glengarry, or 

* The Mandengas inhabit a triangle, whose base is the line from the 
south of the Senegal to the Gambia, and whose apex is the Niger, even 
extending to near Timbuktu. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUEST. 151 

liberty cap, of dark indigo-dyed cotton, and sometimes 
the kan-top, or ear-cap, of India and Hausa, surmounts 
their shaven heads. When travelling, they wear, as 
usual all down this coast, "country umbrellas/' like the 
Malabar fishermen's hats, a thatch of plaited palm 
leaves, shaped like a parasol, with a central swell and an 
umbo or boss for coolness and dryness. The body dress is 
a long kamis (shirt) of white or blue longcloth, and wide 
but short trowsers, like those of European women. 
Over all 'is thrown a sleeveless burnous, or half-sleeved 
Tobe, garnished with a huge breast pocket. It is seldom 
white, more often indigo- dyed, with broad and narrow 
stripes of a lighter tint than the ground-work. An es- 
sential article is the taawiz, or talisman, locally and bar- 
barously called gri-gri ; a Koranic quotation or 
mysterious diagram enclosed in a roll, or in a small 
square of morocco leather, hung round the neck, and 
attached to various parts of the body. Of these pro- 
phylactics, which answer to the little cross and the 
medals blessed by the Pope, a serious person will wear 
some dozen — a whole volume disposed about his 
lirnbs. Contrary, to the rule of Moslems generally, they 
honour workers in iron and leather ; the king's black- 
smith and cobbler are royal councillors. So the barber 
of the " Great Mogul" was a personage of exalted rank, 
none other being worthy to be entrusted with the impe- 
rial nose and throat. Most of the men carried knives, 
daggers, and crooked old sabres in leather sheaths — a 
practice which should never be permitted in Africa; 
natives entering a military or a civil station, should 



152 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

always be compelled temporarily to leave their weapons 
with the policemen at the nearest guard- house. The 
Mandengas returned a ready w'alaykum el salaam to my 
orthodox address. The Wolof, as M. Koeller writes the 
word, anciently spelt Joloff, TYolof, Yaloof, and Yaloo, 
respond Jammagam to the Tobaubo, or white man's 
Jammagam. They are more like the Abyssinians than 
the Mandengas are, and are remarkable for good looks, 
ringlets, and tasteful toilets and ornaments. This small 
maritime tribe is interesting and civilisable ; many have 
been Christianised, especially by the Roman Catholic mis- 
sioned.* They are excellent sailors, and have acquired 
the title of " Jews of West Africa," a distinction which 
belongs rather to the rascally Akus or Egbas. A Wolof 
woman afterwards came on board the steamer, clad in a 
horrid semi-European cotton gown ; she curtseyed, instead 
of salaaming, spoke a little poor French, and amused 
herself with spelling out a missionary tract. Their 
country lies between the Gambia and the Senegal, and is 
divided into sundry petty kingdoms, Senaar, Saulaem or 
Salem, and Ballagh or Baa. 

The scene as we approach the neat market, "Albert," 
and dome with zinc or iron roof — built by Governor 
O'Connor — becomes amusing. Men and women sit 
under the tall cotton trees and the stately banyans, 



* Usually three priests and five Sisters of Charity — a number now 
greatly reduced. They keep a school, principally for Wolof children, 
and are very evangelised. Captain Hewett declares that the "Wolofs 
are "seldom or ever converted to Christianity." I believe the con- 
trary to be the case. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUEST. 153 

selling oranges, limes, and papaws, vegetables of all 
kinds, especially the Bhendi of India (Hibiscus escu- 
lentus), here, as in the Southern States of North 
America, called okra or okros, and making the best 
thickening for soup; tomatoes, which grow wild upon 
the coast as in the interior, and form an admirable 
corrective to the climate, yams, batatas or sweet pota- 
toes, and baskets of ground nuts, with which up the 
river even the pigeons are fed. There are kola nuts 
(Sterctdia acuminata), both for retail in baskets and 
packed in bundles with bamboo matting — here they are 
imported and become costly. The live stock consists of 
a few geese and turkeys, Manilla ducks, the hardest and 
the most insipid of their tribe, and the poultry, amongst 
which is the kind with inverted feathers, lately described 
under the name of arripiada by Dr. Livingstone and by 
travellers in Eastern Africa. Some of the crowd are 
spinning and weaving, all, daddies, mammies, and picca- 
ninnies, with an incessant flow of tongue; many are 
reading what the ignorant but self-sufhcient Kafir will 
tell you is the Koran, but which are really extracts and 
prayers written in the square semi-Cufic Maghrabi cha- 
racter, which would take a learned Meccan a month to 
learn; whilst others, I regret to say, polluted by a licence 
which calls itself liberty, are shamelessly gambling with 
little sticks stuck in the ground — may their graves be 
browzed upon by donkeys ! Now and then fighting- 
looking fellows ride past us, with the Asiatic ring-bit and 
the Mandenga saddle, a heavy demi-pique. The nags are 
ponies, about ten hands high, thin and angular, but 



154 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

hardy, and, like most of the equines in this part of 
Africa, vicious and quarrelsome. They have no pace 
between a lazy lope and a hand-gallop. Yet, with all 
their shortcomings, I should prefer them to the diminutive 
bastard barb, here called an Arab, which costs from 20/. 
to 40/. : the latter generally dies early from chills, colds, 
and checked perspiration, that brings on u loin disease," 
t. e. paralysis of the hind parts, or from the fatal swelling 
of the stomach, which is caused by bad food. A dance is 
also going on. The M.C., a wild-looking mumbo-jumbo- 
like negro, dressed in savage and fantastic habiliments, 
scanty pagne or loin-cloth with red streamers, and strips 
of long-haired skin dangling from his limbs, prevents by 
his superintendence the lookers-on from breaking into 
the circle."* The performers are non-professional ; at 
times a lady outsider becoming excited, throws herself en 
evidence 3 putting "life and mettle in her heels," and with 
the upper person to the fore and the lower person 
wonderfully disposed backwards, enacts a part which it 
it is difficult to ignore and impossible to describe. 
Dancing, in the vapid quadrilles, unmeaning minuets, 
and romping waltzes and polkas of civilisation, has 
lost, it is evident, all its meaning; for instance, the 
cachucha, winch the Portuguese borrowed from the 
Kongo in West Africa, has been parodied by the 
Spaniards and refined by the French into utter insig- 
nification. A few boats and some hides cumber the 

* The mumbo-jumbo of the Gambia is called, as in books, " Horey." 
There is also a regular profession of bards and M.C.'s here as in 
Senegal, termed Griote or Guriot. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUBST. 155 

sand, and amongst the heaps stray pretty deer-shaped 
goats of small size, and gaunt pigs, sharp-snouted and 
long-legged as the worst Irisher. We do not enter the 
market-place, which swarms with both sexes in blue; 
African indigo affords a beautiful purple dye, but one 
soon learns to prefer the white clothing. Dr. Martin, 
my kind host and guide, warns me that philanthropy 
is the order of the day in this corner of the white man's 
cemetery. 

Quae caret ora cruore nostro ? 

I can read this in the face of the casimir noir, alias 
the " black diamond.''' The liberated Africans, princi- 
pally Akus and Ibos, have begun the "high jinks," 
which we shall find at their highest in Sierra Leone. 
They have organised " companies/' the worst of trading 
unions, elected head men who will become their tyrants, 
effected strikes, and had several serious collisions with 
the military. They are in missionary hands, which 
disciplines and makes them the more dangerous. The 
Mandengas, whom Mungo Park characterised as a 
"wild, sociable, and obliging people," are now spoken 
of as turbulent and unruly. And this is to be expected ; 
a race of warriors must be ruled by the sword. They 
would themselves prefer military law to all the blessings 
of a plebiscite. 

Under charge of Dr. Martin I visited the military 
hospital on the west of the town, close to the swamp. 
The place is murderous. There is a sick ward upon the 
ground floor ! — one night on the ground floor is certain 



156 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

fever in most parts of Tropical Africa, — and that ground 
floor is, like the latrinse and other offices, frequently 
under water. In the first story the beds are crowded 
together, each patient having 800, whereas 2000 feet of 
air should be the minimum. Moreover, in these regions 
no first story is thoroughly wholesome, unless a free 
current of air flows beneath it. Jalousies or shutters 
take the place of glass windows. On the second floor 
are the quarters of the medical officers, within pleasant 
distance of an atmosphere fraught with small-pox and 
dysentery, typhus, and yellow Jack. This caution of a 
hospital is built to " accommodate" 23, at times it has 
had 32, and the average may be set down at 12 ; when I 
visited it there were 18 fever and dysentery cases. 
Amongst them was a Malabar Cooley in the last stage 
of phthisis, and a Bombay native Christian, who, after 
exhausting the "West Indies, had engaged himself as a 
bandmaster. I was not astonished after going the 
rounds to hear of 92 deaths out of 96 admissions, and 
that at times el vomito "improves off" everybody. 
Reports after reports have gone home, but hitherto 
without effect. ]S T adir Shah should have sent his 
director-general, or whoever the "boss" of that depart- 
ment may be, to pass a season there. 

After liquoring up — and such is Gambian hospitality 
that this genial rite forms part of every visit — we again 
issued forth, to call upon the Colonial Secretary, Dr. 
Robertson, then in temporary charge of the place during 
the absence of H. E., who found it advisable to pass the 
sickly season at Madeira. Thence we proceeded to the 



A DAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATHUEST. 157 

barracks, and after passing through pools with which 
the spouts had invested what in hot weather is loose 
burning sand, we found Captain Ivey, the commandant 
of the troops, surrounded by piles of newspapers. The 
buildings are substantial, of weather-stained stone — a 
long flat-roofed range of galleried upper rooms, built on 
arches over the soldiers' quarters, and commanded by a 
quadrangular tower, which bears the flag and an old 
weathercock. You enter the doorway and find on 
the left a black hole, once called an orderly room, 
now the Brigade Office; the inner part is a patio or 
yard. There is a bell in a dwarf cupola over the portal, 
and a clock so artificially disposed that the soldiers for 
whom it is intended cannot see it without going outside. 
This and the loopholes have been standing jests at 
Bathurst. The latter reminded me not a little of the 
Aden style of fortification, where, after a hard morning's 
great-gun exercise, the only accident that occurred was 
the death of our Bhisti by a rebound of the ball. The 
loopholes look from the road into the barrack -yard, 
kitchen, and cellar; the enemy will find convenient 
shelter whilst firing down upon the former, and the 
friend concealment during his pilfering the latter. Not 
far from the barracks, and between a battery and a room 
once, I believe, used as a church, is the powder-maga- 
zine, guarded by a solitary sentry, and boasting none of 
the precautions, moat, chevaux de frise, or tall wall, 
usually adopted when combustibles are heaped together. 
A little practice enables a people to forget it, even when 
the air is full of electric fire, and further south the 



158 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

traders have the pleasant habit of storing kegs by 
hundreds in their bamboo houses. At the moment I 
write there is half a ton of gunpowder within stone- 
throw, in a zinc house, with negro fires not twenty paces 
from the walls. In Africa, as in Asia, circumstances 
force a man to become a fatalist. 

The garrison at Bathurst now consists of three com- 
panies (304< men) of the 2nd West : they are thus dis- 
tributed. Bathurst has 212, Macarthy's Island, 41, 
Cape St. Mary's, 31 invalids and convalescents, and 
Fort Bullen, 17. It has been a favourite theory that 
the Jamaican negro and others withstand the heat and 
miasmata of Africa better than the white man; the 
contrary is probably the case.* The semi-civilised 
African dies of phthisis much more readily than the 
Englishman j and if exposed to hardship, he becomes, to 
use a homely but forcible expression, rotten after the 
first year. In enduring the fatigues of actual warfare 
he is, I believe, inferior to the acclimatised European. 
Although negroes have a singular immunity from yellow 
fever — none were attacked at Sierra Leone during the 
five epidemics from 1837 to 1859 — the small-pox is a 
scourge to them, and they die like sheep of dysentery 
and bilious remittent. Recruited too often among the 

* The " African Regiment," a condemned corps of 800 men once 
stationed here and at Sierra Leone, died, it is true, in a few months. 
But they were " the greatest rascals under the sun, the offscourings of 
the army, and were drunk day and night, sleeping in the dews and 
drinking new rum, old palm wine, or anything they could lay their 
hands upon." The officers were " equally reckless and insubordinate," 
says Captain Hewett. 



A BAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATBURST. 159 

loafers of the West Indies and the idle vagabonds of 
Sierra Leone, the men, though fine sturdy-looking fel- 
lows, and, for blacks, well set up, are troublesome 
and litigious. Like the Indian Sepoy, they are very 
far from being brave. In the late "Badibu expedition/' 
the English sailors and marines lost no opportunity of 
showing their contempt for them. They wear the 
Zouave dress, than which nothing can look better or be 
worse. The fez, though aided with white cover and 
curtain, defends neither from sun, wind, nor rain. The 
thick cloth jacket is a perpetual poultice. The knicker- 
bockers are heavy, clumsy, and thoroughly unfit for 
walking through walls of thorn, guinea-grass, and 
matted bush. The costume was intended for the lati- 
tudes of Morocco, where there are no such obstructions : 
it is wholly misplaced here, except on the parade 
ground. And even there it might advantageously be 
changed for jackets, and continuations of warm dun- 
garee, with .turban and curtain outside a stiff felt cap 
— cylindrical, if the helmet is considered out of keeping. 
At the time of my visit the troops were suffering from 
want of clothing, and had to eke out their toilette with 
queer succedanea. 

After an excellent lunch of pepper-pot, we mounted 
for a " marooning" gallop to the old convalescent-house 
at Cape St. Mary's, the local sanitarium and out-station 
for invalids. Our road lay westward along the ribbed 
sea-sand, the only ride in the place. At certain times 
of the tide, however, a four-in-hand could be driven 
along its hard, smooth surface. I recognised with plea- 



160 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

sure on the dwarf ledge above the action of the waves 
an old friend, the familiar convolvulaceous creeper (an 
Ipomcea), with its bright green fleshy leaves and beau- 
tiful conical pink flowers, which everywhere greets the 
stranger landing on the dazzling white sands of tropical 
Africa. Presently we passed the burial-ground, con- 
cerning which so much has been said. A few tomb- 
stones, mostly without inscriptions, are scattered on the 
sand and in the bank, and they are so near the shore 
that corpses and coffins have been washed into the sea. 
If New Orleans be a w r et grave, this is dry with a 
witness, the depth and looseness of the sand making the 
excavation a mere hole. Three governors are buried in 
the sand-bank. But matters of climate are becoming 
too serious to make us linger long about such places or 
subjects. Par parenthese I may remark that, whilst the 
French have at Bathurst two or three missionaries, and 
the same number of Sisters of Charity, and the Wesleyan 
chapels and schools'* muster strong, — whilst there is a 
fort, a military square, and other such carnal appurte- 
nances ; the Established Church of England — even here, 
to say nothing of Macarthy's Island — has no house of 
worship, except what was once an officers' mess, and 
nothing but a colonial chaplain, who knows to driller 
by his absence. After a hand-gallop of about three 
miles along-shore, we turned abruptly to the left, where 
a sign-post directed us, and dashed into bush and wood- 

* The Wesleyans have two chapels, two European missionaries, and 
a large school at Bathurst, to which Government allows 100/. per 
annum. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 161 

land. The road was heavy and deep with sand, which 
in the dry season must be painfully loose ; the rains and 
decayed vegetation have clothed it with a coat of green. 
The Guinea-grass, — lower down the coast it will range 
from eighteen to twenty-one feet high, and each stalk 
thick as a walking stick, — already assumes tropical 
proportions; the bush is lush and tall, and the man- 
grove, though more stunted than Russian birch, which 
it resembles in leaf, form, and colour, is thick and juicy. 
Here, as elsewhere, the shortness and obliquity of the 
grain, and the excessive hardness of the heart, render 
this wood fit for nothing but fuel. There are three 
kinds of palms — the cocoa, the date (which, however, 
does not bear), and the bamboo, or toddy-palm (E. 
vinifera), the latter so abundant that considerable profit, 
it is believed, might be made by its distillation.* 
Further on we shall see the noble palmyra. I recognise 
another familiar form, the baobab or calabash [A. 
digitata), locally called monkey-bread : it is rather 
man's bread. The people of the interior prefer it to 
grain, and the flour mixed with milk is extensively used 
in curing dysentery .f Here, however, the baobab lacks 

* The experiment has, I believe, been tried, but it failed for want 
of sufficient supply of the wine . Palm brandy is much used in Zan- 
zibar, and known by the name of Mvinyo. Mr. Poole does not regret 
the failure, because "we do not require any further addition to the 
stimulants, which are found to be quite answerable for the purpose of 
destroying thousands of souls and bodies." But is he not rather a 
benefactor to his kind, who invents a new kind of enjoyment ? 

+ Mr. Poole, vol. ii. p. 206, is "at a loss to know why these trees 
bear the name they do." The people of Sierra Leone have a superstition 
that it attracts lightning, and never build their houses near it. 

VOL. I. M 



162 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the huge proportions of the Central African monster, 
and its foliage is ragged and irregular, wanting that 
parachute shape which it presents on the Eastern coast. 
Coming to swamp} 7 ground we drew rein; it is full of 
crabs, and their holes are dangerous. Some years ago, 
as the local legend tells, a doctor happened to lie down, 
probably not u hnpransus," upon this muddy bed, and 
in the morning it was found that the crabs had eaten 
Ins eyes. A similar story is told of a merchant skipper 
who was devoured by the dogs in his nighting place, 
one of the gutters of Constantinople. 

Another mile of bush and woodland, here opening out, 
there closing in very thick, carried us to Oyster Creek, 
the western outlet of the Gambia river, whose fork 
forms the Island of St. Mary. Here we found a 
small thatched house of lumber, not very clean, but 
almost entirely without furniture ; it is a kind of Star 
and Garter to the Bathurstians, who make Saturday 
their great marooning day. We were welcomed by a 
11 Mammy/' that is to say, a fat, middle-aged mulatto 
woman, bred and born at Bathurst, and speaking 
" Blackmail's English." Mammy, the great sy novum 
for madam, ma'am, mother, wife, is more prettily and 
Frenchfully, but ignorantly, written ma'amie ; whilst 
Daddy, i.e., sir, master, husband, father — at Fernando 
Po they call their consul Big Daddy — is turned by polite 
authors into Daaie. Around the Oyster house lay piles 
of shells, showing that the native meets with appre- 
ciation. But in these lands oysters lose half their 
significancy. There are two kinds, the little native 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATRURST. 163 

oyster, very sweet and wholesome, and the Mangrove 
oyster, growing upon trees, a phenomenon which, if 
lengthy description and facetious remark be a test, 
mightily tickles the fancy of every African traveller. 
At certain seasons it is believed to be almost poisonous, 
and old hands always prefer it roasted. The branch 
is cut off and exposed to the fire, and this not only 
cooks the animal, but renders knives unnecessary. The 
Mammy supplied us with fire and water, and we breathed 
the nags till the ferry came. Oyster Creek is not 100 
yards in breadth, nor is it very deep, but the number and 
ferocity of the sharks forbid swimming this Styx. 
Presently appeared the boat, a large flat-sided punt, 
with hand paddles, worked by a Charon and two acolytes. 
We were accompanied by men and boys returning to 
their homes on the mainland, and all armed with 
old sabre blades in elaborate leathern sheaths. We 
disembarked at last upon the true African continent, 
which my foot had not pressed for — years. It felt like 
a return to dulce domum. 

The scene at once improved : it illustrated on a small 
scale how much better is the heart of Africa than its 
epidermis. The last three miles lay over sand and 
through the usual melange of bush and woodland ; the 
former, however, thinned out : the swamp disappeared, 
and as the ground rose, the coup d'ceil assumed that 
" park-like" appearance which every traveller, from 
Bruce to the latest tourist in Africa beyond the coast, 
has remarked, all using the same word. Herds of fat, 
round-bellied cattle were browsing upon the luxurious 

31 2 



164 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

grass : as we passed them on the gallop they scampered 
a\vay, dislodging from their backs and sides the brown 
and red "tick-birds" that were rendering them important 
services. The lovely black Whydah thrush, or widow 
bird — as vicious a little animal, by-the-by, as any widow 
that fancy of jilted spinster authoress ever conceived — 
fluttered her long tapering tail-feathers over mimosas, 
all golden balls and emerald leaves. Then followed a 
causeway of cockle shells and a bridge of tree trunks, 
spanning a younger brother of the Oyster Creek, for 
which the colony is indebted to the energy of Colonel 
O'Connor, the governor preceding him now in power. 
A few late columnar palms, the Palmyra nobilis, unerring 
herald of a finer land and superior healthiness, frequently 
appeared; and leaving behind us the dreary plain of 
arid sand and mephitic jungle forming the Island of St. 
Mary, suddenly, in a most unexpected manner, a turn 
of the road round a little rise of ground showed us the 
quarters at the Cape St. Mary. The distance was a 
total of about eight miles. 

We had passed on the road the assistant-surgeon in 
charge of invalids, and he had told us to make ourselves 
at home. AYe therefore proceeded at once to his quarters, 
where we found whisky and water, and whilst reposing 
amused ourselves by teazing a little Ambriz monkey, 
with a blue face and pretty figure ; it was gentle and 
mild tempered, a very angel among the Simiadce. The 
Health House, or Cape House as it is generally called, is 
built upon the top of the cliff, ready to catch all the 
breezes that blow across the broad Atlantic. The 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUEST. 165 

" muster" is that of the barracks and the larger 
houses iu the town, but though no expense seems to 
have been spent in building it, the neglect of a few- 
timely repairs seems to have brought it to untimely 
grief. I was charmed with the site after the horrors of 
St. Mary's Island. A wonderment seized me — how 
long will it be before the Europeans of the settlement 
remove to it en masse? Those opposed to such change 
— and such a man there will be in every place, probably 
even in Inferno — declare that the roadstead is bad ; bad 
however as it is, all own that those of Cape Coast Castle 
and Accra are as bad, and that the bays of Lagos and 
the " Oil Rivers " are twenty-fold worse. They comment 
upon its dullness, the difficulty of obtaining provisions, 
and the want of books, which can be procured only from 
the Military Library. But were the barracks established 
here, dullness would disappear, at least as much as from 
the town, provisions would appear, and it is easy to 
subscribe to Mudie's — a proceeding which, apparently, 
has not been dreamt of by a soul save myself in the 
slow lands of Western Africa. All is still redolent of 
the times of Adamson, Phil. Beaver, and Mungo Park. 
Madras is called the benighted Presidency of British 
India. I propose for West Africa — where all things, 
ideas, living, literature, commerce, are at least half a 
century behind other colonies, from old Newfoundland 
to new New Zealand — the sobriquet of the Dark Coast. 
I begin to think that the antiquated horror of Western 
Africa, which methinks is really but little worse than 
Western India, will soon pass away from the memory of 



166 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the British public, which is wax to receive and marble 
to retain such prejudices. Then, as a consequence, 
hygienic science will readily discover fitting residences 
for the white man; and then, but not till then, the 
mines of African wealth, from which we now content 
Ourselves with picking up the fragments, will be effectu- 
ally and thoroughly exploited. 

Leaving the convalescent quarters, when Jocko's temper 
could stand it no longer, we proceeded to inspect the 
vicinage. Our first visit was to a tattered old Bungalow, 
which Dr. Martin had, upon his own responsibility, hired 
to accommodate six privates and a sick officer — after 
the fashion of the Crimean nurses, I put him last — half- 
dead with fever from Macarthy's Island. This butt-end of 
the habitable world, a swamp, six miles by four, derives 
its name from the late Sir Charles Macarthy, whilome 
governor of Sierra Leone, who in 1823, by the mistake 
of his ordnance-keeper in bringing up biscuits and 
macaroni instead of ammunition, was beheaded by the 
Ashantis at the battle of Assamacow, and whose name 
is still sworn by on the Gold Coast.* The island in 

* The native account of this event may be read with amusement : 
it is extracted from Mr. Zimmerman's "Sketch of the Akra or Gu 
language. Stuttgart, 1858." It is a fair specimen of the Gold 
Coast histories, and was probably published because it gives but a poor 
account of the English General : — 

" The War of Asamangl-ao (Assamacow). 

" Wherefore the Ashantis with MacCartliy (Governor of Sierra Leone) 
made war the reason is this : it is said, that an Ashanteman came 
to Cape Coast to buy things; and when he went to the market, 
he saw a woman selling stink-fish, and he said unto her : ' Thy 
fish, how much one?' And she showed him the price. Then the 



A DAY AT ST. MABY'S, BATHUBST. 167 

question is situated some 180 — 200 miles up the 
Gambia, — our charts give a direct distance of 110, 

man said unto her (saying) : ' Take some off for me ! ' And the 
woman said: 'I do not take off.' — In that time the Ashantis 
ruled over the Cape-Coast and Akra-people. Then that same man 
said unto her : 'I do not pay thee any more at all, but I take 
it by force ! ' And the woman said unto him : ' Then thy master 
which is in Ash an ti, he buys the fish for me' (i.e. he will pay it). 
Then the man said unto the woman : ' Why sayest thou so ? ' After- 
wards the man began to scold her, saying : ' Thy master who is in 

Europe, Osei (King of Ashanti) says of him : He shall come and ' 

And the woman also told him : 'And also thymasterwho is in Ashanti, 

the King says : He shall come and ' Then the man said : ' Why 

sayest thou so ? ' and he began to swear that the woman shall be caught 
and brought to Ashanti. And the woman ran off to the fort and told 
all the things which the man had done unto her. And the man went 
off to his town and told it ; and Osei let him be caught and killed, 
saying : ' Wherefore he let himself not be killed there V 

"And Osei sent his messengers down, that the woman may be de- 
livered unto them ; and the Cape-Coast Governor also did not allow 
that she was delivered. When this thing happened, the Governor 
wrote to Europe, saying : 'Well, this matter has happened !' And the 
King also wrote a letter to the Danish King ; and this also wrote a 
letter to the fort here, that powder and lead may be given out. And 
the English King also despatched a vessel with warriors and captains. 
Their chief-captain was called MacCarthy. When MacCarthy came, he 
had thousand soldiers ; these all were good warriors. He went off to 
this war, and when he went he met with an old woman in the way, and 
this old woman told him : ' Master, I beg thee return first ; for the 
warriors thou leadest are not enough ; rather return to seek some more 
to them ; for the Ashantis are too many.' MacCarthy expressed him- 
self, saying : ' Oh ! these my warriors fit me, that I will fight with 
them.' And he went off and fought with them. When they had 
fought a long time, then MacCarthy's powder was done. And 
the Fantis which had gone with him to war, when they saw that 
their powder altogether which they carried was done, they began 
to cry, ' Our powder is out ! ' And as the Ashantis and the 
Fantis all have one tongue, they could hear what the Fantis said in 
their camp. Then the Ashantis got strength and destroyed them as 



1G8 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

and an indirect of 170, — a river so tedious and slug- 
gish that the tide can be felt for 170 of its 800 
miles. It is, however, the key of the interior, and a 

clay. Now if MacCarthy looks how the Ashantis deal with him and 
that also his powder is done, he with all his people draws the sword 
and meets the Ashantis face to face for a long time. Afterwards, 
when there was no more, then he wrote a letter and gave it to one of 
his servants to bring it to Cape-Coast Castle, that they may give him 
powder ; but when the messengers returned, and the boxes were opened, 
they were full of pieces of meat and biscuits. The reason of this was : 
those to whom the letter was given were in a hurry when they gave 
the things to those who had given them the letter. Afterwards, Mac- 
Carthy sent again, and the same was brought. When MacCarthy be- 
held how the Ashantis were fighting with him, and that also be did 
not get powder, he said unto his Captains and all whom he had gone 
to war with, saying : 'Our powder is done, and the Ashantis also are 
fighting with us in this way, therefore whosoever wish it may help him- 
self.' Then he himself withdrew himself backward, leaned against a tree, 
drew with his hand a pistol and killed himself. So he had the pistol 
in his hand and leaned against the tree. And while he leaned there, 
if the Ashantis were coming near him, they were afraid, because they 
thought he is alive; but at last they perceived that he was really not 
alive, but dead. And they took him up, and cut off his head and brought 
it into their camp, and took out the brains, and the skull which was 
left they sewed into his uniform and filled it with gold, and himself, 
the whole body, they roasted and brought him to Ashante. The fat (of 
him) they boiled into a lump, and his heart they divided and ate. In 
this same war they caught MacCarthy's trumpeter, and upon fear they 
commanded him to blow, then he blew, and when he blew, the soldiers 
who were not there when MacCarthy shot himself ran and came to the 
Ashantis, thinking that their captain was there, and were killed. And the 
head which they brought to Ashante has become their fetish which they 
worship till this very day. 

" And MacCarthy himself of whom we speak here, he stood on the 
place where he had stood till the time when his powder and provision 
was done, and he did not flee at all until his death." 

N.B. — There is no proof that Sir Charles Macarthy shot himself; 
but under such cases suicide would be considered by the natives the act 
of a man of honour. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 169 

depot of trade, without which Bathurst would soon see an 
empty market. Consequently we maintain there, in the 
most tattered of forts, two officers, two assistant-surgeons, 
and forty-one men. In 1837 and 1839, bilious remittant 
deepened to yellow fever at Bathurst and Macarthy's 
Island; in 1860, the medicoes died off in rapidest 
succession, and the non- professionals, out of decency, 
followed suit. A " place of wealth and beauty " — as 
the local poet calls Bathurst — and a hot-bed of disease, 
like Macarthy's Island, require a Sanitarium, and the 
only one within reach is Cape St. Mary. Let us there- 
fore hope that the medical big-wigs will not wig Dr. 
Martin, or deduct from his pay abstracts the rent of the 
little hovel. 

We descended the green and grass-grown cliff by a 
winding path, which once more reminded the Consul 
of a previous landing at Mbuamaji, in the land of 
Ham. By the wayside was a deep well; the water, 
however, had turned out brackish. Standing below 
•upon the smooth white sandstrip — the shelving of the 
shore keeps sharks at a distance, and allows a delicious 
bath — we could discern the formation of the cliff. The 
facing was a red sandstone conglomerate, about seventy 
feet high, and large fragments, which had slipped within 
the action of the waves, had been sunburnt, and honey- 
combed into the semblance of laterite. The little bay 
had a shallow depth, and the further horn was covered 
by a ruined pile. No fear of pythogenic fever here ! 
It is open to the westward, with 200 miles of 
ocean to purify the gale which hence passes on 



170 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

to unhappy Bathurst, laden with the miasmata of the 
intervening swamps. Finally, " the Doctor," as they 
call the morning sea breeze in these lands, is regular and 
strong, whilst the dangerous land breezes of night are 
rendered almost innocuous by the rise. 

Under the guidance of my indefatigable host, T then 
proceeded to inspect Bakau, or Bakhs, the Mandenga 
hamlet adjacent to the Cape House. The country was 
nobly wooded with the baobab and the palmyra, and 
from several of the trees hung those hollowed logs 
which the African still finds the best of beehives. 
There was a less pleasing suggestion from the number of 
deserted ant-hills that cumbered the ground. Usually 
the settlements are strongly palisaded with an outer 
clievaux de /rise of stout pointed sticks, firmly fixed 
in the ground, and at an interval of some feet there 
is an inner row of upright paling—defences equally 
needed against the leopard and the two-legged marauder. 
Here, however, under the shadow of the Cape House, 
no such precautions are necessary. Prom the bush we 
passed directly into a network of little lanes and alleys, 
a labyrinth formed by the hut walls and the stakes 
of the compounds. The habitations are of haystack 
shape : the thatched roof neatly finished off above with 
a kind of top-knot, and descending to within two feet 
of the ground, forms ample shady eaves; and the 
cylindrical body of the abode is either of red tamped 
and sun-burnt clay, the neatest bamboo basket-work, or 
split tree-trunks. The entrance, sometimes single, at 
others double, is always low and narrow, that the 



A DAY AT ST MARTS, BATHUBST 171 

interior may be too dark and cool to invite the mus- 
quitoes and land-flies which infest the houses of Euro- 
peans; the door is of stakes or canes, a mere make- 
believe. 

Everything in the building was familar to the 
African traveller — the central fire upon the floor, the 
rafters shining with smoke, the calabashes, and the 
raised bench and mats which form the sleeping appa- 
ratus. The venerable matron upon whose privacy we 
had just intruded was spinning yarn, like a good old 
English lady in the good olden time. By her side 
stood a sturdy boy in naturalihis cleaning cotton ; the 
stuff was of poor quality, but not so short-stapled as 
the East Indian, which Humbug seems determined to 
force upon us, despite the conviction of its valueless- 
ness. In the compound — a rectangle, fenced with 
stakes, five or six feet high, with transverse sticks and 
split stalks between — was a slave girl pounding grain, 
with a pestle like a verandah post, in a mortar com- 
posed of the lower trunk of a palm. The material was 
Guinea corn — Panicum, the Indian Bajri — locally called 
"Kus ; " the larger Guinea corn, Holcus Sorghum, or 
Jowari, is also used. Europeans have learned the use 
of these grains, as the favourite " coos coos luncheons " 
of St. Mary's prove. 

We then proceeded to the house of Tappa, an aged 
chief, who has some repute in these parts. Everything 
in the village was known to me, as though I had been 
born in it. Here is the mosque, circular, of wattle and 
dab, with extinguisher roof of thatch and tassel at the 



172 WANDEBIXGS IX WEST AFRICA. 

top. There is the Bentang-tree*, where, as in the 
English pot -house, the elders of the village meet and lay 
together their wise heads. I almost expected to be 
asked for a "saphie," to see a " coffle " of slaves enter 
the village, to pity a " poor Nealee affeeleeta," or to 
behold Mumbo Jumbo issuing from the bush. Truly 
great is the power of genius ! But who wrote those 
wonderful travels, Mr. Park or Mr. Bryan Edwards ? 
If the former, how is it that his second journal shows 
no trace of such power ? True, it is unfinished ; but so 
is Lord Byron's Swiss journal, which afterwards contri- 
buted to Manfred. 

The " dooty " Tappa was sitting on his threshold, in 
a very (Leg age toilette. I shook hands with him, and 
addressed a few Arabic phrases, to which he listened 
with intelligence, but which he, being no " bushreen/'f 
manifestly did not quite understand. A few verses 
of the Koran followed; he then brought for me a 
MS. of prayers, which were read out greatly to his 
admiration. A friendly clasp was the result, and he 
welcomed me to the brotherhood of El Islam. Pity 'tis 
that Park, Laing, and other travellers, have taken away 
the bloom and beauty from this "line." In a month I 
could learn sufficient Mandenga for practical purposes, 

* So Park calls the Bombax. 

+ A Parkian word, probably from Mubashshir, one who brings glad 
tidings. Europeans at St. Mary's divide the Mandenga nioslems into 
two classes — the Marabut, who does not drink, and the Soninki, or 
Sonaki, who does. The word Marabut (Mullah) is very loosely used ; 
one hears of whole villages of Marabuts who seem to correspond — in 
the European mind — with the Fetish men of the Gold Coast. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUEST. 173 

and armed with, not an umbrella, like foolish Mr, 
Petermann's Dr. Krapf, but with sword and dagger, a 
koran, and an inkhorn, reeds, and a few sheets of paper, 
I could pass an honoured guest through the country 
where those before me travelled as Pariahs. But I 
should not appear in the costume preferred by poor 
Park, black beaver tile, and blue coat with brass buttons, 
with shoeless feet, — what peculiar perverseness there 
was in such proceediugs, a perverseness only equalled 
by the admirable perseverance with which the wanderer 
condemned himself to insult and injuries, and his readers 
to a thorough misconception of the people's character ! 
So far from being treated barbarously by the "Moors," 
an Arabicised population, Park and Caillie fared re- 
markably well, considering their obstinate kufr, their 
inaccessibility to the Truths of a Higher Law, their 
ghastly whiteman's faces, and their shocking civilised or 
badly worn attire. Conceive how a negro gentleman, 
habited in a crown of eagle's feathers, a grass cloth round 
his loins, and a large spear in hand, also travelling on 
foot, would have been received in the country parts of 
England in 1780. Also imagine that, if he had lived 
through the madhouse to tell his tale, what a picture 
he would have drawn of the English for the benefit 
of the African haclaud and gobemouclie, who of course 
would never have heard the other part. Mungo Park 
was unhappy even in his death. He lost life by firing 
upon the kind-hearted people of Busa (Boussa), who 
meant him no harm till his violence made them fancy 
his boat the advance of the Eellatah army. We shall 



174 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

presently see what are upon this subject the deductions 
of half-reasoning Europeans. 

After shaking hands with my new friend and Moslem 
brother Tappa, we resumed our walk through the 
village, where all looked upon us with cordiality and 
good humour. The men wore the oval pieces of pierced 
and strung amber, which their quasi-periacii, the Soma], 
call Mekkavi. The women carried on their heads large 
light-yellow calabash gourds, neatly sewn, capped with 
a bunch of leaves to prevent splashing, and a bit of 
floating wood to warn when the balance is going wrong. 
Returning to the Cape House the country, on either 
hand, despite a certain sameness, appeared positively 
beautiful, after the foul swamps of St. Mary's Island ; 
stubble of Guinea corn, loved by quails, a velvety green 
expanse of grass, sloping inland, with here and there a 
goodly palmyra, more beautiful than the columns of 
Baalbek, palms necklaced with wine-calabashes, and in 
one part a glade of baobab and other trees, cabled with 
the most picturesque lianas, where gorgeous birds sit 
and sing. - * And yet there are men who would prefer 
the fever haunts of Bathurst. How strong is the spirit 
of contradiction in the British brain ! I would willingly 
have lingered in these homely haunts, these pleasant 
scenes, these " sylvan shades," for hours and hours ; but 
sunset was drawing nigh, and we had eight miles to 
gallop before dinner time. The agreeable afternoon 
ended with an equally agreeable evening, when, with 

* They are sold here as tie-lie — twine, rope, coi'ds. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 175 

tales of travel and with bonne cJiere, non sine aligno 
mero, we managed to make exile anything but a bitter 
potion. Before resting, however,, I have something 
to say touching the ethnography of this part of 
Africa. 

With Mr. Luke Burke, I hold, as a tenet of faith, the 
doctrine of great ethnic centres, and their comparative 
gradation. I believe the European to be the brains, the 
Asiatic the heart, the American and African the arms, and 
the Australian the feet, of the man-figure. I also, or let me 
say we, opine that, in the various degrees of intellectuality, 
the negro ranks between the Australian and the Indian — 
popularly called Red — who is above him. From humbly 
aspiring to be owned as a man, our black friend now 
boldly advances his claims to egalite and fraternile, as 
if there could be brotherhood between the crown and 
the clown ! The being who fi invents nothing, originates 
nothing, improves nothing, who can only cook, nurse, 
and fiddle; " who has neither energy nor industry, save 
in rare cases that prove the rule ! — the self-constituted 
thrall, that delights in subjection to and in imitation of 
the superior races. The aboriginal American has not 
been known to slave ; the African, since he landed in 
Virginia, a.d. 1620, has chosen nothing else, has never, 
until egged on, dreamed of being free. He has a fatal 
respect for the Asiatic, and the European has ever 
treated him like a child. And yet we — in these days — 
read such nonsense pure and simple as u Africa for the 
Africans." Datur digniori is the fiat of Eate where 
such mighty interests are concerned. "When the black 



176 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

rat expels the grey rat, then the negro shall hold his 
own against the white man. 

As these pages will prove, there is a striking similarity 
between the races of Western and Eastern Africa. The 
former, however, will probably be found superior in dis- 
position and more cultivated than the latter ; those have 
had 300 years of European intercourse, these hardly 
one. In the west there are no such warlike and terrible 
tribes as the Shoho, the Somal, the Wamasai, the 
Makua, and the Landeens. The King of Dahomey 
wages war for conquest, like a European monarch some 
centuries ago ; and Andrew Battel's " Giaghas " have 
long been an affair of history. I remember being much 
astonished when asked by an eminent, but exceedingly 
testy, home geographer, if it was really my opinion 
that the Africans were dangerous to travellers laying 
open Inner Africa. Presently I recollected that his 
studies had been almost entirely confined to Western 
Africa, where, except in very few places, the European 
may go where he pleases. He had better not do so in 
the eastern regions. 

Every ethnologist divides the population of Africa 
according to the light that is in him. It appears to me 
that there are but two great families, with a number of 
branches, and certain abnormalities like the South 
African bushmen, which are however too small and 
unimportant to notice.* 

* I altogether discard such divisions as Ethiopians in West Africa, 
when Ethiopia was north of Abyssinia, Kegritians that have never 
heard of the Niger ; and Nilotics, so called because they have 



A DAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATHUBST. 177 

1st. The noble race, or great North African family, 
which shows everywhere signs of increase, insititions 
negroid, semi-Semitic, in fact, Mulattoes and Asiatic 
./Ethiopians. Of these are the Abyssinians, Gallas, 
Nubians, the numerous tribes comprised under the name 
of Moor, the Mandengas, Fulas, Haussa men, Kaniki of 
Burnu, and others not yet Moslemized, as the people of 
Yoruba and Nufe. These races, many of whom show 
little more than quadroon blood, and have long bushy 
beards, are possibly Arabs, expelled their country in the 
days of Yoarab bin Kahtari, and driven by slow degrees 
westward,* long before the "Saracenic " invasion of the 
Sudan in the tenth century. In the Sudan and Guinea 
again, there is a class of black- whites, i.e., a sable people 
with intelligent and quasi- Grecian casts of countenance, 
heavily bearded and robust, in fact " black but comely." 
Some travellers suppose them, from the absence of 
effluvia, to be produced by a blending of semi-Semitic 
with pure Negro blood. 

2nd. The ignoble race, or pure breed, the aboriginal 
and typical African, exceptionally degraded in Guinea, 
and improving as he descends southwards and blends 
with the true Kafirs, who may be a people of mixed 

nothing to do with the Nile. Those who propose in West Africa a 
ternal division — viz. : — 1. Senegambia ; 2. Northern Guinea ; 3. 
Southern Guinea — have not seized, I apprehend, the more salient points 
of difference which direct to a different distribution. 

* They have lost their language, it is true. But so have the 
3,500,000 Negroes in the " United States," and so would, after the 
second generation, a colony of British settled in East Africa. Captain 
Burton has, I think, well explained this absorbing peculiarity of the 
Suuth African dialects in the Lake Regions of Central Africa. 

VOL. I. X 



178 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

blood. In his lowest organisation lie is prognathous, 
and dolicho-kephalic, with retreating forehead, more 
scalp than face ; calness, cucumber-skinned, lark-heeled, 
with large broad and Hat feet ; his smell is rank, his hair 
crisp and curly, and his pile like peppercorns. His 
intellect weak, morale deficient, amiability strong, tem- 
perament enduring, destructiveness highly developed, 
and sensibility to pain comparatively blunt. It is not 
wonderful that the Caucasian man taught himself by a 
fabliau to believe that this race had been cursed to be 
"servants of servants." 

The growth of El Islam continues in West Africa. 
Here however it has long been established. It is sup- 
posed to have begun under a Mandenga warrior in 
Banibuk, about a.d. 1100. The Moslems of the west 
still point to luta Jalo and Fiita Toro, as the earliest 
cradles of their faith j these places are now held by the 
great Fula race, which, issuing it is believed from Mas- 
sina, near the Niger, overspread the circumjacent regions. 

The ill treatment to which the earlier travellers — 
Caillie especially, whose fancy was far more forceful than 
his frame — subjected themselves by their obstinacy and 
prejudices, produced grievances and misrepresentations 
which in popular works outcrop up to the present days, 
I will take the last, Rev. E. M. Macbriar's " Africans at 
Home " (p. 391), a compilation by a Wesleyan mis- 
sionary, whose brief residence at Macarthy's Island is 
not yet forgotten in the colony."* " All these people — 

* London : Longman and Co., 1861. I wonder that a respectable 
firm could be found to publish, a work -which borrows from Dr. Living- 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 179 

Moslems — are capable of civilisation, perhaps not of the 
highest type, but at least of a respectable form. It 
must be a Christian civilisation. Mahommedanism has 
injured their tempers when it has improved their 
manners ; and it has not benefited their morals "\ This 
is about equivalent to asserting that Christianity in 
England has clothed and fed the people, at the same 
time that it has degraded them ; if this dictum be true, 
so is that. Mr. D. J. East, in another schoolboy com- 
pilation called " Western Africa,";]; asserts that "these 
evils — polygamy and the slave-trade — have derived from 
Mahommedanism fresh vitality and a permanency of 
strength which they never had before." Yet (in page 
272) he quotes Mr. Hutchinson, writer to the mission 
conducted to Santi or Ashanti by Mr. Bowdich in 1817, 
who says naively of Kumasi, the capital, "This place 
now presents the singular spectacle of a Christian and a 
Mahommedan absenting themselves from human sacri- 
fices and other abominations." It is tolerably impru- 
dent for the race that fought about the Asiento contract, 
and who worked Jamaica, to throw slavery in the teeth 
of the Moslems ; and it is equally ridiculous to fancy 
that human sacrifice is less abominable to a " Mahom- 
medan" than to a Christian. Rev. M. Bowen — of 
whom more at a future time — the gentle shepherd who 
proposes horresco referensl to "invade tropical Africa 

stone — to mention no others — some thirty pages literatim. After this, 
what is plagiary ? 

t The italics here and helow are mine. 

t London : Houlston and Stoneman, Paternoster Row, 1844. 

n 2 



180 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

with swarms of missionaries," thus, in his " Central 
Africa/'* p. 190, shows, a priori, his knowledge of El 
Islam : — " After the venerable Mahometan priest had 
retired some of the villagers told me he was accustomed to 
say, ' It is not the Mahometan or the Heathen who will 
be saved (!), but the man who serves God in his heart.' 
I was not prepared to hear such a doctrine in a suburban 
village at Illorin." Puerile surprise of gross ignorance ! 
Eight pages afterwards we hear of a Euta named Abso- 
lom (! !),t and a footnote informs us that " such names 
as David, Mary, &c, are common in Sudan." Prok 
pudor ! Have these people ever read Sale's Koran ? 

In opposition to all such assertions, I would record 
my sincere conviction that El Islam has wrought immense 
good in Africa ; that it has taught the African to make 
that first step in moral progress, which costs so much to 
barbarous nature ; and that it thus prepares him for a 
steady onward career, as far as his faculties can endure 
improvement. What other nation, what other faith, can 
boast that it has worked even the smallest portion of 
the enduring benefits done, and still doing, to Africa by 
El Islam ? Granting that ill temper, polygamy, domestic 
slavery, and the degradation of women % are evils ; yet 

* Charleston, 1858. It is a "powerful" work — the composition cf 
a Texas ranger who became a missionary, who wielded a good rifle at 
the Dahomian attack on Abeokuta, who received all manner of 
courtesies from the English in Africa, and who went home and abused 
them : — sic itur ad astra — in America. 

+ Probably Abd el Salam. 

X The last charge is utterly unfounded. Nowhere do women hold a 
higher position, or enjoy such true liberty, as in Moslem lands ; and it 



A DAY AT ST. MARY'S, BATHUEST. 181 

what are they to be compared with the horrors of canni- 
balism and fetishism, the witch tortures, the poison 
ordeals, and legal incest, the "customs," and the mur- 
ders of albinos, of twins, of children who cut their upper 
teeth first, and of men splashed by crocodiles ? Surely 
the force of prejudice cannot go beyond this ! 

Meanwhile the Mandenga f and other Moslem visitors 
have proselytised many of the liberated Africans at 
Sierra Leone, have built two mosques, and regularly 
keep their Eamazan. They are to be met with at Accra, 
they are numerous at Lagos, and they are gradually 
extending upon this coast towards the southern hemi- 
sphere. 

I have touched upon the propriety of removing 



is curious to hear the assertion made in England, where by statute a 
man may beat his wife moderately, force her by law to submit to his 
loathed companionship, and dispose of her property as well as her per- 
son. A real Eastern, for instance, Mirza Abu Taleb Khan, who travelled 
in England between 1799 and 1803 (Longman, 1814), is aghast when 
he hears this most ignorant deduction, that a woman is a slave because 
she may not sit barefaced in the society of strange men. In Timbuktu 
we are told — to quote no other Africo-Moslem instances— the weaker 
sex holds a very high position. Women are described as the " soothers 
of man's woes, softeners of his grief, and partners of his joys." Can 
England say more ? — or as much ? 

+ To the extensive family of the Mandengas, who occupy the coast 
from Gallinas River to Cape Mount, belongs the Vai, Vey, or Vy branch, 
who invented the only West African alphabet. It is a small tribe, not 
exceeding 100, 000 souls. The example of their Koran-reading brethren, 
and a considerable Caucasian innervation, prevent our considering 
their coarse and semi-symbolic alphabet strong enough to " silence the 
cavils and sneers of those who think so contemptuously of the intellectual 
endowments of the African race." The fact is, they are no more 
Africans thau the Mexicans are " red Indians.' 



182 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Europeans from Bathurst to a higher and healthier 
position. "To render Africa a salutary residence for 
European constitutions," says the prospectus of the 
Society for the Extinction of the Slave Trade and for 
the Civilisation of Africa, "may be a hopeless task." 
The Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society, and 
Sir Ranald Martin, if consulted, might give a different 
opinion. When prophylactic hygiene shall become asso- 
ciated with proper therapeutic treatment, — when the 
lands shall be cleared, locomotion facilitated, provisions 
made plentiful, and houses comfortable, and especially 
when only the stations above fever level shall be used by 
Europeans,— I suspect they will find themselves as much 
at home in Africa as in Southern Europe. A movement 
for removing the English soldier in the East from those 
fatal low-country stations, which in the last half century 
have wasted, without reckoning invaluable life, some 
10,000,000/. of English gold, has now been inaugurated. 
"We may not live to see the day, but our sons will. 

Another change in prospect for all our foreign pos- 
sessions is the increased necessity of economy, and the 
low estimation with which the home-dweller has learned 
to hold his brother the colonist. Let us see what Diet- 
richsen and Hannay give as the "Civil establishment" 
of a place which contains about 7000 inhabitants : — 

1 Governor, 1200/. 

Colonial secretary, 600/. 

Eirst writer, secretary's office, 300/. 

Chief justice, 500/. 

Collector of customs and superintendent of pilots, 475/. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHVBST. 183 

Clerk of customs, &c, 200/. 

Tide surveyor, 150/. 

Colonial chaplain, 400/. 

Auditor-general, 200/. 

Colonial surgeon, 400/. 

Assistant ditto, 200/. 

Colonial engineer, 400/. 

Clerk of councils, 100/. 

Clerk of crown, 70/. 

Clerk of police, 100/. 

Postmaster, 80/. 

Besides coroner and registrar. 

The salaries belong to the days when the officer on 
the main -guard, at the Tort Gate, Bombay, was not 
permitted whilst on duty to sell fish. Their tenuity 
necessitates pluralities which engender heartburns, and 
even pluralism is not valuable enough to prevent absen- 
teeism. Might not the establishment be reduced by as 
least one-half? The military surgeon might act at 
colonial, with proportionately increased allowances. The 
civil police should be placed, as in India, under military 
officers. The chief justice, clerk of councils, and clerk 
of the crown, might aller se promener ; police magis- 
trates' courts suffiice for Europeans, and a military 
superintendent of the native tt palavers " would soon 
make this cheap judicial engine valuable as the Indian 
Panchayats. To the latter system I have as yet seen 
nothing superior, when worked as it was wont to be by 
an English official, who by his presence kept under and 
disallowed over-severity. There is nothing that Asiatics 



184 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

and Africans admire so little as British civil courts,"* 
with their trains of lawyers and native hangers-on. 
And there is nothing more difficult than to explain " the 
why " to the home-made Englishman. Asiatics and 
Africans, both litigious races, whose great pleasure in life 
is a " palaver/' a lawsuit, or an indemnity claim, care little 
for unbought justice; especially when purchased at the 
somewhat exorbitant price of delay, difficulty, and uncer- 
tainty. They are happy when they can approach the 
judge with something in their hands, and each, knowing 
that the highest bidder wins, draws the lottery as it were 
in the dark. The few Anglo-Indians who have spoken 
candidly, from Sir John Shore downwards, are unanimous 
upon this point ; they are also somewhat doubtful of the 
good which our civil institutions have conferred upon 
these uncivil peoples. 

But Bathurst has now done its work. The commerce 
of the place consists principally of the ground-nut (A. 
hypogaa), hides from the upper country, ivory, and bees- 
wax. Gold is still brought down, but the quality is by 
no means of the best.f The French at Senegal have 

* A regard for the due development of constitutional government 
demands for this mighty Gambian empire of 7000 souls an Upper House, 
under the name of Executive Council. It consists of His Excellency 
the Governor as President ; the Colonial Secretary, the Collector of Cus- 
toms, the Queen's Advocate, and the officer commanding the troops, 
as members. An Upper House demands a Lower, and this is found to 
exist under the name of a Legislative Council, in which seven resident 
merchants meet for "legislation." We must go further down the 
coast before we find those sensible institutions, the Court of Equity and 
the Chamber of Commerce. 

t The precious metal has been found in some of the red clay hills on 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHURST. 185 

drawn away the ground-nut : they have squeezed the 
orange, and they have left us the peel. Those " lively 
parties " have lately annexed the fine coffee-lands from the 
Pongo* to the Nunez rivers; and the treaty of 1845, 
binding the high " contracting Powers" to refrain from 
"territorial aggrandisement/' expired in 1855. Whilst 
the English Gambia is now almost monopolised by the 
French, t the French Gaboon is wholly in the hands of 
the English merchants. Why not exchange the two ? 
When nations are so decidedly rivalistic, surely it is 
better to separate a V amiable. According to the best 
authorities, the whole of the coast north of Sierra Leone 
might with profit be transferred to the French, on con- 
dition of all the coast south of the Kongo River, except 
what belongs to the Spanish and Portuguese, Dutch and 
Liberians, being left open to the English. Those who 
oppose the idea are revolted by the thought of parting 
with an old and effete colony, and by the reflection that 
the French will, as is their wont, " seal it up." And 
who would wish it reopened? I should like to see 

the Gambia River near Macarthy's Island, but not pure nor sufficient to 
pay for labour. 

* The word is variously written Ponga and Pongas. It lies in about 
10° N. lat, some 50 miles south of the Nunez, and it is remarkable 
that the coffee-tree flourishes or rather originates about the same 
parallel in Ea&t Africa. 

f There are but four English merchants in the Gambia, Messrs. 
Goddard, Brown, Quin, and Chown. They export ground-nuts in 
French bottoms to French ports — English would not pay. The culti- 
vation of the Arachis dates on the Western Coast of Africa from thirty 
years, and produces per annum forty millions of francs— more than 
equal to the palm-oil trade. 



186 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

every more distinguished abolitionist in England and 
Yankeedom qualify himself for talking sense by a six 
months' spell down South at "niggers' work;" possibly 
his opinions touching the feasibility of white labour 
would be modified. And to those who would retain the 
Gambia, I wish nothing worse than a year's residence, 
or, rather, confinement there. 

At the time of our arrival Bathurst had had her little 
war. It arose from what possibly might have been 
avoided — an armed interference in a commercial squabble, 
and from what necessarily required to be punished — 
the plundering of British vessels. The people of 
Badibu owed a few £ s. d. to Messrs. Chown and 
Quin of Bathurst; and the Mandengas, after a few 
acts of piracy, convinced by the comparison of Gambia 
and Senegal that the English are "a nation of shop- 
keepers," had challenged us to a come on." In Feb- 
ruary, 1860, H.M. S. S. "Arrogant," Commodore Ed- 
monstone, " Torch," Commander Smith, and " Ealcon," 
Commander Heneage, under the command of the first- 
mentioned officer, steamed up the river. The land 
force consisted of 400 sailors and marines, eight com- 
panies (about 800 men) of the 1st and 2nd AYest 
Indian Eegiments, and some 600 black auxiliaries, 
militia,* and volunteers, led by his Excellency the 
Governor. A Erench military officer was also present 
and showed all the courage of his nation. The place 
to be attacked was a strong and well-made stockade 

* According to Capt. Hewett, the colonel of this gallant corps is 
the proprietor of a grog shop. 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATRURST. 187 

twenty miles up the river, three up a creek, and one 
of marching. The little " Dover " carried the Euro- 
peans to the attack every day and brought them back 
to sleep on board their ship. The enemy, besides 
manning their defences — which, though attacked with 
howitzer and rocket, resisted till taken in the rear — had 
a fair force of cavalry, and behaved with true Moslem 
gallantry. The chiefs, bearing Korans, rushed to the 
front, sabre in hand. Tour of the " King's " sons 
were slain, and after losing the first fight the Man- 
dengas recklessly challenged our men to a second. 
Of the "Arrogants," one officer and three men were 
killed, and twenty-one were wounded. The West 
Indians lost but one. N.B. Always go by the " ca- 
sualties." 

At Bathurst we shipped on board, besides a young 
cynocephalus and two niggers * — the latter coming off 
without money or ticket, were summarily sent to work — 
a remarkable party of Mandengas, bound for their distant 
homes. They were probably " gold strangers," as the 
local idiom calls those who traffic in the precious metal. 
They were armed with muskets, sabres, and knives; 
and for victual on the road they secrete rude gold rings, 
the best form in which the precious metal usually appears, 
and thus claims more than an equivalent for its weight 
in dust. 

* In West Africa, nigger means a slave. It is an actionable word, 
and, as the reader will soon find out, a negro can recover damages by 
civil suit from any white man who uses language technically denoted as 
tending to "a breach of the peace." 



188 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Formerly these people used to walk the way be- 
tween Bathurst and Sierra Leone, and then, strike in- 
land towards their country. They now save themselves 
the first half of the journey by paying $18 for a deck 
passage ; yet a long trudge remains for them. Five in 
number, they are of moderate stature, with slender and 
lightly made but muscular limbs, uncommonly thin 
beards — almost lacking the whisker part — and faces like 
the Semiticized negroids generally, Arab in the upper and 
African in the lower half. All are of the Maliki school. 
They are not, however, strict Moslems. Like Rajpoots 
and Maharattas, they eat, I regret to say, the wild boar. 
Salt, according to them, is the best vendible in their 
country; and, — they knew the Kwara, or Niger, — gold 
can everywhere be washed near the rivers. I found them 
kind, obliging, and manly in demeanour : a great con- 
trast to the Christianized African, who is either sheepish 
and servile, or forward and impudent. One, an old, pur- 
blind man, who sat with a clove of garlic up each nostril, 
called himself El Sharif Mohammed bin Salman, and 
shook hands with me whenever I proposed an Arabic 
sentiment. 

The Mandenga language is soft and pleasant. I could 
not make much out of Mungo Park's vocabulary, and 
Mr. Macbriar's grammar* was deep in the hold. It 

* A Grammar of the Mandingo Language, with Vocabularies, by the 
Rev. R. Maxwell Macbriar, translator of the Gospels into Mandingo, 
&c. London : John Mason, 66, Paternoster Row (printed for the 
"Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society). 

It is regretable that the author should write verb and pronoun in 
one, as anyanta in paragraph 66 \ akimota, par. 29, and abettea, par 



A DAY AT ST. MARTS, BATHUBST. 189 

appears very easy to learn : the syllables are distinct, the 
sounds easy, and twenty-one Roman letters (six vowels, 
and fifteen consonants) express them all. When these 
Moslems write their own tongue they use the Arabic 
character, which is highly unsuited : for instance, most 
of their nouns end in o, and the vowel e is constantly 
recurring. In the Arabic languages and alphabets 
there are no such sounds or symbols. The abstract 
words are as usual borrowed from the learned tonsme. 

o 

The general impression which it leaves upon the mind is 
that time and distance have changed it till few indica- 
tions — but those are important — of its original African 
framework remain. 

The morning after our arrival was fixed upon for 
departure from Bathurst. We breakfasted at the Com- 
missariat Quarters, and greatly enjoyed the favourite 
meal of the coast. It resembles rather the dejeuner a 
la fourchette, the Scotch heavy frith stiidi, or the sub- 
stantial spreads of our Elizabethan ancestors, than the 
puny affair of toast and tea now used in England. Men 
rise early — a pleasant but pernicious practice, for which 
the only excuse is an old proverb and a more antiquated 
prejudice. After four hours of walk and work, they 
require at 9 or 10 a.m. fish, flesh, fowl, and eggs, 
especially the glowing West Indian pepper-pot and 
cotelletes en papillotes, fruit and vegetables, bread or 
biscuit, — in fact, a dinner, lacking only the soup 

89 ; still more that he should join pronoun, adjective, and verb, as 
abbettebata, par. 25. Are hyphens and commas things so scarce and 
rare ? 



190 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Claret, or pale ale, are the staple drinks — I have tasted 
hermitage — followed as they should be by a cup of tea, 
coffee, or chocolate. And digestion cannot proceed with- 
out a pipe or a cigar. 

The gun sounded a signal soon after breakfast. We 
sauntered to the shore, found the boat waiting, and, 
aided by the tide, soon transferred ourselves on board 
the "Blackland." A parting drink, a warm hand- 
shaking, and hearty thanks to our kind and hospitable 
hosts concluded our visit to what the Trench call Sainte 
Marie de Bathurst. 

After leaving Bathurst our voyage was not pleasant. 
The clouds began to bank up in grey and massive heaps, 
and the rain to dash upon us, now in huge drops, then 
in a permanent drizzle. I know not which look the 
more wretched on board ship in rainy weather — the 
people or the poultry. Pour comble, one of our (t lady- 
passengers " was laid up with what the doctor em- 
phatically termed chicken-pox, and what the passengers, 
for unknown reasons, determined to be small-pox. Her 
husband was a full-blooded Ibo, of a truly, ignoble 
aspect, despite his gorgeous attire, "like a perambu- 
lating rainbow surmounted by a black thunder-cloud/' 
and "jealous as Othello, the type of all jealous men." 
The facetious mate before alluded to proposed to cut 

the b tongue out of him and sell him for a gorilla. 

After reading Mr. Poole, the trick it will be found 
has already been played with some modifications upon 
strangers. 

After quitting Bald Cape, we passed about sixty 



191 

miles south of Bathurst the long low shore distin- 
guished only by the Casamanza Biver, a Trench settle- 
ment, which has lately been surveyed by M. Yallon, as 
the Senegambia has by M. Braouizec, and the Bay of 
Arguin by M. Euleraud — all officers of the Navy and 
the Engineers. Our course then lay along the Islands 
of Bijougas and Bulama, some 350 miles from Sierra 
Leone. This colony, so unfortunate under the redoubt- 
able Captain Phil. Beaver — in the eighteen months, only 
six remained of 269 souls, including 122 women and 
children* — in 1792 was abandoned, and is now to 
become an outpost, seeing that it can afford annually 
60,000 bushels of ground-nuts. A party of fifty 
men will be sent there from Sierra Leone, with 
orders to locate themselves on a hill in the western 
or seaward front of the island, not, as before, near 
a swamp on the eastern or inland site. It is also 
proposed to purchase the "Eyo Honesty," a little 
steamer built by Mr. Laird, of Birkenhead, and in- 
tended for the King of that name "down coast," or 
South. 

Again the weather changed to the normal north-east 
trade, cold and violent as if we were in England : the 
day was clear, but a zone of pinkish haze, 10° deep, 
and raised 5° above the horizon, warned us to expect 
pitching and rolling ; nor was the warning a wolf-cry. 
The passengers took to their berths, and the crockery 
fell to breaking : the cook lost his cunning, and, sitting 

* African Memoranda, Baldwin, London, 1805. 



192 WANDEBINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

after dinner, became a bore. Altogether, we were not 
comfortable, and we looked forward to arriving at 
" Silly own/' or " S'a Leone," as the above-mentioned 
pretty Mulatto lady called it, and as I shall do for the 
future in remembrance of her. 



CHAPTER Y. 

THREE DAYS AT FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE. 

September. 

"I have travelled east, I have travelled west, north, and south, 
ascended mountains, dived in mines, but I never knew and never 
heard mention of so villanous or iniquitous a place as Sierra Leone. I 
know not where the Devil's Poste Restante is, but the place surely must 
be Sierra Leone." 

I quote memoriter from Captain Chamier's " Life of a 
Sailor," which was in every mouth on board the " Black- 
land." Here, however, as elsewhere, the saying may 
hold good that a Certain Person may, perhaps, not be so 
black as he is painted. 

Our only amusement during the hours before retiring 
had been to watch the Sargassa, or Gulf weed, floating 
with torn stalks, and to speculate upon the mysterious 
cause which brought anything here that might go else- 
where. These floating prairies — which, by-tke-bye, are 
supposed to give a name to the Ilhas Yerdes, or the Cape 
Yerde Islands — are so misplaced that one can never get 
over the peculiarity of their appearance. At 6 a.m. it 
was announced that we were off the Ilhas de Los (Loss), 
or dos Idolos (of Idols), a triad of volcanic islets, 
Tamara or Pootabar, Pactory Island, and Ruma, or Craw- 
ford, not to mention bare rocks and outlying reefs. Our 

VOL. I. 



194 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

soldiers, for we had whilome a garrison there, found the 
two former healthy, but inferior to the Bananas, whilst 
the third was deadly : the largest is five miles by one. 
Being still inhabited, they supply beef and vegetables, 
fruits and plantains, and sundry attempts have been 
made to overgrow them with the ground-nut. Shortly 
afterwards we were off the Scarcies Eiver, where at 
seasons there is an awesome bar, some seven miles 
broad. We made southing, and shortly after noon a 
lump of mountains to starboard — I had been long 
looking over the port bow — suggested S'a Leone. The 
name was given to u Eomarong " of the natives by the 
Portuguese explorer, Pedro de Cintra, in 1467, because 
they found the King of Beasts, or rather the leopard 
confounded with the lion, troublesome, or because they 
thought, as in the case of the Lion of Bastia, that the 
rancre had a certain resemblance to a lion couchant.* 
Imaginative voyagers approaching from the west still 
see the beast's crest in the Sugarloaf Mountain, the 
head to the north, and the rump fining away, and 
dipping to the south. A mass of warm water-laden 
frowsy nimbus — the Sugarloaf is rarely unclouded — 
prevented our distinguishing the outline. Some suppose 
that Tierra Leoa was so named by the Portuguese, from 
the leonine roaring of the thunder through the valleys 
on the setting in and at the breaking up of the rainy 
season. 

* Capt. Hewett says in " about 1480 — nearly a century previous 
to the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope" (!), and relates the tra- 
dition that a lioness was the scourge and terror of the Portuguese 
colonists. 



THREE DAYS AT S>A LEONE. 195 

Far to our right, or west-south-west of S'a Leone, 
and opposite Cape Shilling, lay the Banana Islands, 
like thicker clouds at the bottom of the rain mist ; they 
consist of two lumpy islets, and one rock, apparently 
volcanic, and they are to S'a Leone what the Isle df 
Wight is to Southampton. False Cape — truly false 
to many coming from the north and south, — with its 
two trees perfectly simulating the S'a Leone or True 
Cape, — stretched apparently to meet them. Here ele- 
phants, in small herds, are said to linger. Due west of 
Cape S'a Leone, and distant about five-sixths of a mile, 
lay Carpenter Eock, so called, not from the mechanic 
that might expect to profit by it, but from the luckless 
individual who ran his ship's nose upon it. The dan- 
gerous wash, with curling rollers charging furiously 
down upon it, suggested the idea of a school of spouting 
whales. It is celebrated for its excellent rock oysters, 
which are brought up in quantities by the divers. 
Perhaps pearls may be found on this part of the coast, 
which is not far removed from the parallels of Ceylon and 
Panama; but who would take the trouble to fish for 
them ? As we neared Cape S'a Leone, two pilot-boats, 
with flags flying, advanced to the attack. One fell to 
leeward — perhaps the "Blackland" may have altered her 
course a wee bit. The more fortunate — Mr. Johnson — 
hailed us, climbed on board, grinned an African grin a 
the misfortunes of his rival, who had once " lawyered " 
us, and secured the pilotage, 57. 10s. 

" One summons at least ! " quoth the gallant Captain 
English. 

o 2 



196 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Presently a lighthouse, seven miles distant from the 
town, appeared on Cape S'a Leone, round which the sea 
runs at times like a mill race. Attached to the red- 
tipped tower is a bungalow belonging to Government, 
where invalids resort for fresh air, and derive strength 
from bathing in a pool, below which a breakwater 
defends from sharks. On this western face of the 
mountain mass the play of the sea-breeze is strong and 
regular, and it is clear, in fact far too clear, of forests. 
One is tempted to give the site a preference over the 
Hong-Konsc-like hole into which Freetown has been 
thrown. Unfortunately, there is no harbour for shipping, 
and — a major consideration — it is backed by a swampy 
lagoon, over which the night-breeze passes. Freetown 
will probably not be removed to this black western 
shoulder ; but it will, ere long, have bungalows high up 
the Leicester Mountain.* 

The run in was picturesque, wanting little of being 
beautiful. Opposite was the estuary of the Eokel, or 
Eokelle, the S'a Leone Eiver, in places seven miles 
broad, flowing calm and smooth, and mingling with the 
ocean between Leopold's Island and Cape S'a Leone. 
The lowlands at the base of the ridges were broken and 
dinted with little bights and lagoons of great variety. 
Pirate's Bay, the first, is a fairy scene, with its arcs of 
dark red cliff, bespread with the brightest green, and its 
beach of fine yellow sand, over which waved the feathery 
head of the cocoa palm. One or two old wrecks still 

* Some years ago a settlement was tried here : it failed, but chiefly 
because it was a new clearing. 



THREE DAYS AT S'A LEONE. 197 

crumbled there ; the place derives its name from olden 
times, when the smoothness of the water and the abun- 
dance of fish and fruit tempted the jolly filibusters to a 
reldclie ; and there is a local tradition, that Drake cast 
anchor in its blue waters. Beyond it, and separated by 
a well-wooded point, lay Aberdeen Bay, a long reach 
extending far into the interior, and, after heavy rains, 
making this portion of the lowland 

" Both land and island twice a day." 

The whole site of S'a Leone is quasi-insular. Bunce 
Eiver, to the north, and Calamart, or Calmont, usually 
called Campbell's Creek, from the south, are said to meet 
at times behind the mass of mountains, and at all seasons 
a portage of a mile enables canoes to go round the 
colony by water. Tins conversion of peninsula into islet 
is by no means uncommon in the alluvial formations 
further south. 

Aberdeen Bay abounds in sunken rocks, which do not, 
however, prevent a ferry-boat crossing the gut. Scat- 
tered settlements of low thatched huts, like haystacks, 
called mostly after the islets upon winch they are built, 
crown the dwarf cliffs, and hardly emerge from the gor- 
geous tropical growth. Murray Town and Congo Town 
brought us, after passing King Tom's Point, where there 
is a 3 -gun battery, to Kru Town Bay : here we cast 
anchor, banged our guns, and lay awaiting the health- 
officers. We are about three cable lengths * from the 

* Ten cables = one sea mile = 6075*5 feet. 



198 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

shore, and we command a front view of harbour and 
settlement. 

St. George's Bay, as the anchorage is called in books, 
lies a little westward of the town. This roadstead — for 
it is no harbour — is open to the north-west winds, which 
make it dangerous : it would be almost useless but for 
the Middle Ground, a large sandbank, in parts, perhaps, 
rocky, which breaks the seas. The difference of tint, 
and the play of the dancing seas upon these sands, is a 
pretty sight. The north bank of the river is the low 
Bullom shore, so called from the tribe its tenants — a long 
flat line of mud and mangrove, where all the Fevers hold 
their Court. The dot beyond it is Leopard, anciently 
Leopold, Island, where it is said a leopard was once 
seen j it is, however, a headland, connected by a sandpit 
with the most leeward point of the Bullom shore. * On 
our right, facing Freetown, and in front of us, is the 
mass of highland that buttresses the southern side of 
the Eokel's debouchure. The range is unconnected 
with any other : its shape is triangular, extending along 
the coast from Cape S'a Leone north-west, to Cape 
Shilling south-east, twenty-one miles and a half, and 
of inland breadth about twelve. This would give it 
an area of 250 square miles, or about the size of the 
Isle of Wight, with thirty miles to spare. The penin- 
sula is supposed to be volcanic, and sundry shocks f 

* Bullom, or Bulum, is said to mean low land. The people are 
-wild a3 wild can be, but tbey bave always received Europeans with 
kindness. 

t Particularly in 1858 : it extended to tbe Gold Coast, and was a 
precursor to tbe ruins of 1862. 



THREE DAYS AT S'A LEONE. 199 

have occurred of late years, arguing that the subter- 
raneous fires are not yet extinct. Its appearance, how- 
ever, is rather that of a sandstone region, softly rounded 
contours, with here and there a lumpy cone, a tongue 
of land, and a gentle depression, showing the action of 
water. If volcanic, the fires must have been for long 
ages extinct. The high green background is the fons 
malorum arresting the noxious vapours of the lowlands 
and of the Bullom shore opposite. The Sultan of the 
mountains is Sugarloaf Peak, an apparently volcanic 
upheaval 2300 feet above sea level; it is rarely our 
fortune to see more than its foundation. The Wazir 
is Wilberforce, which supports sundry out-stations and 
villages, deep-set in dense dark groves. A few reclaimed 
patches in natural shrubbery appear widely scattered : 
the unsophisticated African is ever ashamed of putting 
hand to plough, and the autumnal fires have destroyed 
much valuable timber and produce ; for instance, tallow- 
trees and saponaceous nut-trees, especially the Pen- 
tadesma Butyracea, which once covered the land from 
S'a Leone to the Niger. 

Nothing can be viler than the site selected for 
Freetown; the fifteenth century would have chosen a 
better. This capital of the unhappy colony lies on the 
north coast of the S'a Leone Peninsula, on a gentle 
declivity, a narrow shelving ledge of diluvium washed 
from the higher levels, and forming in places dwarf 
facets and little basins. The sandstone is so soft and 
friable, that it readily absorbs the deluging torrents of 
rain, and as readily returns them to the air in the shape 



200 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

of noxious vapours. The lowest houses are besprinkled 
by the wave-spray; the ground, however, rises gra- 
dually from the sea to the Arthur's Seat of Freetown, 
" Tower Hill," whose elevation was variously estimated 
to me at any number between 300 and 500 feet. At 
one time the S'a Leonites thought of building a health 
house on Station Hill, where a signal staff announces 
the approach of vessels. The tenement rose to nearly 
its first story, where it stopped short for want of funds. 
On the heights above the settlement, there is doubtless 
room for cool and healthy country seats, where the 
European exiles might be comparatively safe from dysen- 
tery and yellow fever. A white lodge peeping from a 
densely-wooded mountain flank was pointed out to me 
as Carnes' Farm, called "Mount Oriel," probably for 
"Oriole/' by the lady tenant who has described it. 
Though not 900 feet above sea level, the climate about 
this eyrie is said to be wholly different from that of the 
lower town. But the effects of original sin in site are 
terribly lasting in these lands ; they descend from genera- 
tion to generation. It is far easier for the Tropics to 
build than to unbuild, which involves re-building. The 
great gift of Malaria is utter apathy, at once its evil and 
its cure, its bane and its blessing. Men come out from 
Europe with the fairest prospect, if beyond middle age, of 
dying soon. Insurance offices object to insure. No 
one intends to stay longer than two years, and even these 
two are one long misery. Consequently men will not take 
the trouble to make roads, nor think of buying a farm, 
or of building a house upon a hill. They might have 



THREE DAYS AT S'A LEONE. 201 

every comfort that Europe and Africa afford, but who 
cares to write or to collect subscribers for them ? They 
might have American ice for Id. per lb., and with ice 
would come fruits, game, and other comforts, but who 
would raise a company or disturb his mind with reflecting 
about an ice-house ? 

We will now cast an eye upon the straggling town, 
which seems to be three or four miles in circumference. 
At a distance it is not unpicturesque, but the style of 
beauty is that of a Rhenish Castle, ruinous and tumble- 
down. Bathurst, winch I thought an aged fogy, is 
young and strong compared with decrepit old Free- 
town. A week ago the gable end of a huge house 
overhanging the wharf fell into the sea, exposing the 
anatomy of the whole interior, and last night's rain 
washed down part of a chapel. These people consider 
not the ways of the white ant : instead of hurrying like 
the Termes to repair, they simply abandon the debris. 
There is no marine parade, and, as in Eastern ports, the 
habitations crowd towards the sea, thinning out behind. 
The colours of the houses are various : plain white is 
rare; blue, gray, light yellow, dark yellow, ochre, red, 
dirty brown, brown, black, and especially greens 
somewhat flashier than fresh grass, and set off by darker 
shades of different depth, are preferred. But all are the 
same in one point, the mildewed cankered gangrened 
aspect of the decadent Europeo-Tropical settlements, 
which contrast so unfavourably with the whitewashed 
cities of the Arabs. The principal buildings are placed 
to catch the sea breeze. Here, as at Zanzibar, the 



202 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

temperature becomes unendurable where the wind can- 
not reach. Those that strike the eye, beginning from 
the right, are as follows : near King Town's Point is the 
AYesleyan College, a large building with apparently 
shingled roof, upper jalousies and lower arches, with 
a band of verdure in front, defended from the waves 
by a dwarf sea wall. Some few trees are scattered 
around it, and in unpleasant vicinity to it are heaps 
of coal, which is supposed in the Tropics to produce by 
its exhalations dangerous fevers. Certain it is, that in 
places like St. Thomas (West Indies), the vicinity of 
the coal-shed is more fatal, without apparent reason, 
than sites further removed from it. Beyond the college, 
and separated by the Upper Town or Kru Town — heaps 
of little thatched hovels divided by remnants of bush — 
lies the gaol, a large barn-like structure, faced by a plain 
black wall. The Colonial Hospital, a kind of bungalow, 
fronts King Jimmy's bridge, a long causeway through 
whose single central arch a rivulet of sparkling water 
finds its way to the sea. At the mouth of the little 
ravine lies the crowded fish-market, upon a sandy turf 
scattered over with boats and canoes. On the left of 
the bridge is a mass of tall buildings, stained and 
corroded by the rain, with the gaunt Police Court and 
its ragged flagstaff forming the apex. The next re- 
markable building is the neat brick bazaar, with dead 
arches in the long walls, and surmounted by a flying 
roof with glass windows. Then comes the huge 
ancient store belonging to Mr. Charles Heddle, one 
of the oldest residents and the most enterprising 



THREE DAYS AT S , A LEONE. 203 

merchant in S'a Leone. Like all the houses imme- 
diately upon the sea bank, the frontage is a clear fall of 
80 feet, whereas from the street behind it appears below 
the average height. Below Mr. Heddle's are warehouses 
still to be finished, the bricks not having yet come from 
Marseilles. A contemptible jetty, which the boatmen 
call after a certain acting Governor, " Dougan's Wharf," 
is the usual landing-place, and a puny lighthouse directs 
the disembarkers in the hours of darkness, when the 
whole settlement can hardly show an oil light. Free- 
town sadly wants the comforts of Mauritius — several 
and distinct wharves for lighters, watermen's and ship's 
boats, which now all hustle one another. But even in 
slow~2:oin£c England, Father Thames shall have a 
Boulevart on each side of him long before this * great 
Emporium " of Western Africa shall be provided with a 
landing-place where shins are seldom broken. Above 
the pier, and a little to the left, are the Commissariat 
Quarters, also a long low cottage seen from the land, 
and a tall grim structure like a bonded warehouse 
when viewed from the sea. The bank against which it 
is built is here so steep that it must be ascended by 
steps. Between the warehouses, but on a higher level, 
having a little grassy square between it and the sea- 
bank, is St. George's, once a church, but now promoted 
to a cathedralcy. It is the usual Protestant place of 
worship all the tropical world over — a single tower, 
with useless battlements pinning down a long ridged 
back not at all unlike a barn. Its interior is plain 
whitewash and pew ; the exterior weather-stained, light 



204 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

yellow, and the order is called, I believe, Neo-Gotliic. 
Fas est ah Jioste doceri. Cannot these people take the 
hint from the mosques of the lands adjoining them, and 
spare us the sight of all these architectural deformities ? 
The cost was 150,000/., not including a statue of 
Buxton, which, somewhat uncharacteristically, has shrunk 
into a shady corner. The " Cathedral " is the only 
place of worship which attracts the eye. Chapels, how- 
ever, there are in foison. My gallant anti-Negrophil 
friend, whom I shall quote at a future time, informs me 
that their name is legion, numbering 175. I suspect 
he prefixed the 1, yet the Frenchman's melancholy 
exclamation, " What ! a hundred religions and but one 
sauce!''' (here, however, it is "palaver sauce," not melted 
butter) is thoroughly applicable to S'a Leone. The 
chapels are mostly methodistical, and the schools Lan- 
casterian or Monitorial. Beyond the Commissariat, lies 
another mass of building where a splendid Bombax, 
sole survivor of a once large family, lingering upon the 
sea bank, adorned the town with its majestic proportions. 
It yielded to fate one bad day and slipped down the 
cliff seawards. Eunning the eye to the left, you see 
successively the quarry, where unamiable-looking blacks, 
with CONVICT upon their shirt backs, are cutting out 
a light red sandstone, the harbour-master's wharf, the 
bathing-place — a bit of sea enclosed with heaps of 
stones — and a dark dingy wall, with a few old guns en 
larlette, Fort Ealconbridge, one of the chief fortifica- 
tions in the place. I need hardly say it would fall after 
half an hour before the mildest of gunboats. Yet the 



THREE DAYS AT S'A LEONE. 205 

place might, at the expense of some 6000£ to 8000J., 
be respectably defended. The three main points, King 
Tom's, Port Falconbridge, and Government House, 
should be strengthened with heavy guns, and outside the 
barracks a work containing a single large Armstrong 
would render the others untenable when taken. Of 
course all this has been proposed, of course no notice 
has been vouchsafed to the proposal. 

The back ground is a green curtain of grass and fruit 
trees, amongst which predominate the dark prim mango, 
somewhat like an orange multiplied by two or three, 
and palms, never absent from the seashore in equinoctial 
lands. The ground rises gently, but decidedly, with a 
grassy esplanade, cut by red paths to the Barracks that 
crown the crest of a lumpy hill. Half way up the 
ascent is Government House, — in old charts, Fort 
Thornton, — whose roof but tops the thick vegetation of 
trees and shrubbery that confine it. On its left is a 
black bastion, barely supporting a single cannon. On 
the right, at some distance, is the Military Hospital, 
whose site at least contrasts favourably with the wet 
graves, called wards, at Bathurst. 

The scene in the roadstead is not lively. There is an 
awning'd coal-shed, three or four dismantled merchant- 
men, — dreary-looking as the settlement, and reminding 
one of old Rotten Row in Sidney Harbour, — with schooners 
and coasters, which ply to Sherbro Island, and other 
neighbouring places, and an oil-ship from Marseilles. 
Hardly, however, had we anchored, when, flying upon 
white wings, — I spare the albatross, this time — entered 



206 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

all the Northern Division, H.M. Sloop Falcon, and H.M. 
Gun-vessel Torch, the latter having lately justified her 
name by setting the Liberian coast on fire, of which 
more anon. It was mail-day: home letters are very 
acceptable on this coast ; but such pleasant meetings 
must be "nuts" to the slave exporter, who of course knows 
everything that is going on. Before we left the harbour 
La Ceres, a goelette of war, from Fernando Po, bearing 
the red and yellow colours of Spain, entered with a hole 
through her stern cabin. 

"We parted with our consumptives at Madeira, we 
leave our Africans at S'a Leone. For this race there is 
a descending scale of terminology — 1. European, 2. civi- 
lised man, 3. African, 4. man — the Anglo-Americans say, 
"pussu/i" — of colour, 5. negro, 6. darkey, 7. nigger — 
which last, I have said, is actionable. Many a bl. has 
been paid for the indulgence of Use majeste against the 
"man and a brother;" and not a few 50^. where the 
case has been brought into the civil courts.* Our 
Africans, two in number, were no favourites. One was 
a Jamaican shop-keeper, gifted with the usual modicum 
of intelligence, and a superior development of " sass/' 
justifying the eccentric Captain Phil. Beaver in declaring 
that he would " rather carry a rattlesnake than a negro 
who has been in London.'" An Englishman in his position 
of life would perhaps have felt that he was of a social 
station a shade below his neighbours, and would have 
been slightly uneasy accordingly. Not so Mr. Hazel- 

* Captain Hewett's "Western Coast of Africa," chap. 9, will con- 
firm this. 



TEBEE DAYS AT S'A LEONE. 207 

face, into whose soul or countenance " soggezzione" or 
shame, never yet entered, — for was he not of the 
A'mighty negroes ? And shall not the most dishonest of 
negroes in these days stand before kings ? The second, 
our Gorilla, or Missing Link, was the son of an emanci- 
pated slave, who afterwards distinguished himself as a 
missionary and a minister. His — the sire's — name has 
appeared in many books, and he wrote one himself, pitying 
Iris own * poor lost father/'' because, forsooth, he died in 
the religion of his ancestors, an honest Fetishist. Our 
excellent warm-hearted ignorant souls at home were so 
delighted with the report of this Lion of the Pulpit, 
that it was much debated whether the boy Ajdi had not 
been providentially preserved for the Episcopate of 

Western Africa. The amiable Miss T , one of the 

" prettyflers" of Africa, prefixed to her little volume a 
telling scene, — a personal interview "at the Church 
Missionary House, Salisbury Square," between the "boy" 
and his deliverer, a gentleman who, in the Indian navy, 
bore the sobriquet of " old onions/' The Episcopal 
scheme was perfectly en regie, — did not Lord Camelford 
threaten the House of Commons with his negro footman 
for a fellow member ? — it fell through only when all the 
white shepherds loudly professed intentions of throwing 
up their crooks. " 'Hanged if I would take orders from 
him ! " said one of their calling to me. The son has 
been two years at King's College, and is of course well 
posted upon every res scibilis : his peculiar vanity at pre- 
sent is to be one-third quack, one-third general trader, and 
the rest ground-bait for gudgeons. Upon the strength of 



208 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the latest humbug— the Cotton "Plant" in West Africa,* 
— he has extracted some hundreds of Manchester pounds 
sterling j less lucky only than another individual about 
here, whose 50£. cheques upon the London and West- 
minster Bank were then flying about the coast. 

These individuals are out of their assiettes. At home 
they will devour, perforce, kankey and bad fish, washing 
them down with Mimbo and Pitto — native palm wine, 
and hop-less beer — here they abuse the best of beef, long 
openly for "palaver sauce" and "palm-oil chop," and find 
fault with their champagne. Chez eux, they will wear 
breech- clouts and Nature's stockings — ecco tutto. Here 
their coats are superfine Saxony, with broadest of silk vel- 
vet collars. The elongated cocoa-nut head bears jauntily 
a black pork-pie felt, with bright azure ribbons, and a rain- 
bow necktie vies in splendour with the loudest of waist- 
coats from the land of Moses and Son; the pants are tightly 
strapped down to show the grand formation of the knee, 
the delicate slimness of the calf, the manly purchase of 
the heel, and the waving line of beauty that distinguishes 
the shin-bone. There are portentous studs upon a glorious 
breadth of shirt, a small investment of cheap, gaudy, 
tawdry rings sets off the chimpanzee-like fingers, and 
when in the open air, lemon-coloured gloves invest the 
hands, whose horny reticulated skin reminds me of the 
scaly feet of those cranes which pace at ease over the 
burning sand, for which strong slippers are not strong 

* I do not at all deny that Africa can bear cotton ; quite the contrary, 
it might produce enough for the world. But I doutt that it will, and 
as things are now I am certain it will not. 



THREE DAYS AT SIEBBA LEONE. 209 

enough; whilst feet of the same order, but slightly supe- 
rior in point of proportional size, are tightly packed into 
patent leather boots, the latter looking as if they had 
been stuffed with some inanimate substance, — say the 
halves of a calf s head. 

It is hardly fair to deride a man's hideousness, but it 
is where personal deformity is accompanied by conceit. 
Once upon a time we all pitied an individual who by 
acclamation was proclaimed the ugliest man in the 

B army, which is not saying a little. "Poor 

E ! " his friends would exclaim ; " it's no matter 

if a chap's plain, but he is revolting," and they com- 
miserated him accordingly. Once, however, he was" 
detected by his chums looking into a shaving-glass, and 

thus soliloquising : " Well, E •, I declare you'd be a 

deuced handsome fellow if you had but a little more 
nose." The discreet chum of course spread the story, 
and from that moment our compassion departed. 

Both our Africans are married to w T ives, — one is 
pretty, and tant soit peu coquette, consequently the 
husband is terribly "mad," — and the wives are the 
better and far the more agreeable halves. The men dis- 
please me because they kick down, as the phrase is, the 
ladder by which they rose. Tar parenthese, no man 
maltreats his wild brother so much as the so-called civi- 
lised negro — he hardly ever addresses his kruman except 
by "you jackass ! " and tells him ten times a day that 
he considers such fellows as the dirt beneath Iris feet. 
Consequently, he is hated and despised withal, as being 
of the same colour as, whilst assuming such excessive 



210 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFBICA. 

superiority over, his former equals. No one, also, is 
more hopeless about the civilisation of Africa than the 
semi-civilised African returning to the "home of his 
fathers." One feels how hard has been his own struggle 
to emerge from barbarism. He acknowledges in his own 
case a selection of species, and he sees no end to the 
centuries before there can be a nation equal even to 
himself. Yet in England, and in books, he will cry up 
the majesty of African kings ; * he will give the people 
whom he thoroughly despises a thousand grand gifts of 
morals and industry, and extenuate, or rather ignore, all 
their faults and shortcomings. I have heard a negro 
assert, with the unblushing effrontery which animates 
the negro speechifying in Exeter Hall, or before some 
learned society, that, for instance, at Lagos — a den of 
thieves — theft is unknown, and that men leave their 
money with impunity in the storehouse, or on the 
highway. After which, he goes home, "tongue in 
cheek," despising the facility with which an Englishman 
and his money are parted. 

Our Africans left the ship without, on our part, or 
probably on theirs, a single regret. Not so with the 
Mandengas. The honest and manly bearing of these 
Moslems — so wonderful a contrast with those caricatures 
in pork-pie and peg-topped broad-cloth — had pre- 
possessed me strongly in their favour. We shook 
hands, and in broken Arabic bade each other a kindly 
Allah-speed. Then they disappeared in a canoe, laden 

* Mr. Crowther's Niger Diary will explain this. 



THREE DAYS AT SIEBRA LEONE. 211 

with their pots, pans, and parcels, besides about a dozen 
muskets, whose stocks, like the Eastern matchlock, were 
fancifully inlaid with metal plates. The poor fellows 
are accused at Freetown of sometimes kidnapping a 
child, and of making too free with the women of the 
Kafirs ; but they never summons white men. 

To end this long digression upon the subject of our 
black fellow-passengers. It is a political as well as a 
social mistake to permit these men to dine in the main 
cabin, which they will end by monopolizing : a ruling 
race cannot be too particular about these small matters. 
The white man's position is rendered far more preca- 
rious on the coast than it might be, if the black man 
were always kept in his proper place. A European 
without stockings or waistcoat, and with ragged slops 
hanging about his limbs, would not be admitted into 
the cuddy ; an African will. Many of the fellows come 
on board to make money by picking a quarrel. And 
what does one think of a dusky belle, after dropping 
her napkin at Government House, saying to her neigh- 
bour, " Please, Mr. Officer-man, pick up my towel," or 
of such a dialogue as this ? The steward has neglected 
to supply soup to some negro, who at every meal has 
edged himself higher up towards the top of the table, 
and whose conversation consists of whispering into 
the ears of an adjacent negro, and of hyaena -like 
guffaws. 

" I say, daddee, I want my soop ; all de passenger, he 
drink 'im soop ; me no drink my soop : what he mean, 
dis palaver ? " 

p 2 



212 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

The words are uttered in a kind of scream ; the 
steward cannot help smiling, and the nigger re- 
sumes : 

" Ah, you laff! And for why you laff ? I no laff; 
no drinkee soop ! n 

Here the dialogue ends, and the ladies look their 
acknowledgments that travelling does throw us into 
strange society. 

Succeeded to the health-boat a swarm of visitors — 
soldiers, marines, merchants, missionaries, one coloured 
and two uncoloured, but with terrible faces, and a 
variety of darkies. The latter seem to be of three 
classes at S'a Leone. First, the merchant, an honour- 
able name, assumed by all who can buy half a dozen 
cloths and sit behind them on 'change, chatting and 
doing little else all the day. Second, the tailor, whose 
wife is certainly a washerwoman. The work suited to 
the ninth part of a man in England, is here a great 
favourite ; it gives the hands something to do whilst the 
body is unworked, and the unruly member is free to run 
its course. Third, the missionary, of whom the least 
said the better. One youth, whose complexion wore 
unmistakeably the "shadowed (to deep mourning) livery 
of the burnished sun," had crowned himself with a 
scarlet smoking cap, around which — the light of day 
was not over-intense, but his skin was doubtless of 
most delicate texture — he had wound a white gauze 
veil. Our European visitors were sallow as East 
Indians after the hot season ; in not a few the livid lips, 
vacant looks, and thinned hair, told of severe fever; and 



THREE DAYS AT SIEREA LEONE. 213 

wherever a healthy face appeared, it proved to be that 
of a new arrival. 

There is a dignity" in S'a Leone; it wants therough- 
and-ready welcome of Gambia. Finding some touch 
of noli me tangere in the whites, I turned to the blacks 
pour passer le temps. Not the least amusing of our 
visitors were the washerwomen; here an influential class, 
because this is the only place upon the coast where 
linen can be purified in three days. On the West 
Atlantic coast it would be done in three hours. They 
drive a roaring trade. Threepence a day enables a 
person to live; sixpence, to live comfortably. At Free- 
town, the charge for washing is 35. Qd. per dozen — 
it is Is. Qd. in London where necessaries are some- 
what dearer ; but by hard bargaining and enduring 
a little " sass," you may compound for English prices. 
The nymphs of the washtub were exceedingly familiar 
— not pleasant when woman is plain. Their dress 
was a bright foulard of striped cotton, bound like 
the anatomy of a turban round the head, and gar- 
nished, as our grandmothers' nightcaps were, with 
huge bows ; gaudy shawls, over white cotton jackets ; 
and skirts — I believe they call the things — of bright, 
showy, calico stuff, making them more gaudy than 
any parrot or cockatoo; the ornaments are large gold 
earrings and not small necklaces of beads or coral. 
Mammy Paradise was recommended to me as capable of 
all the duties of a washerwoman ; I did not, however, 
trouble Mammy Paradise. We also received a visit 
from "our Marianne," who has a monopoly of greens,- — 



214 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFBICA. 

literally, I despise puns. She lias the reputation of 
being, or rather of having been, a beauty, and, like her 
race generally, she can say impertinences, which, issuing 
from a barbarous mouth, in a peculiar patois, pass for 
wit amongst those who are not particular about the 
quality of the article. Freetown, it may here be ob- 
served, is the great source of blackman's English, which 
runs down the whole coast, except about Accra, where 
the people have learned somewhat better, and amongst 
the Krumen, whose attempts are even less intelligible 
to the Englishman. "Enty" means indeed; "one 
time," at once; "puss," or "tittie," girl, perhaps 
pretty girl; "babboh," boy — whence do they derive 
these improvements? — "hear," is to understand or 
obey; "catch," to have; " sabby," to know; "lib," to 
live, to be, or to be found; "done lib," is to die; "tote," 
to carry; "chop," to eat; "yam," food; "cut the cry," 
to end a wake; "jam head," or "go for jam head," is 
to take counsel together; "cut yamgah," to withhold a 
payment; "make njanga," to junket; the metaphorical 
heart is, "tummack;" all writing or printing is "a book;" 
any gift, or baksheesh, "dash;" a row or palaver, "bob." 
They always answer " yes " to a negative question, thus 
conveying an affirmative,* and, like the American 
Southerners, they put the sign of the vocative at the end 
of the word — e.g. Daddy, oh ! Mammy, oh! All bulls 
are "cows;" when you would specify sex, you say "man 
cow," or " woman cow ; " so the fastidious American, 

* E.g.— "Didn't you find water there ? " Ans. " Yes 3 Subaudi, I 
did not find it" — meaning "no." 



THREE DAYS AT SI EBB A LEONE. 215 

when driven by sheer necessity to make invidious dis- 
tinctions, must euphuise bullock into " gentleman cow." 
These peculiarities are not stolen forms of speech; 
their grammar and etymology were originally literal 
translations from African dialects which remain, whilst 
the mother tongues are clean forgotten. The vocabu- 
lary might be prolonged ad infinitum, but it would be as 
interesting to the reader as the New Testament translated 
into blackman's English — and in very shame altogether 
withdrawn by its patron society from circulation — would 
be to any save a bibliophile.* 

Erom the moment of our arrival, " negro palaver " 
began. A cause celebre, which will be referred home, had 

just been brought to a close. Mr. M , a civilian 

official in the colony, after thrice warning out of his 
compound a troublesome negro and a suspected thief, 
had applied a certain vis a tergo, and had ejected the 
trespasser, not however with unnecessary violence. In 
England the case would have been settled by a police 
magistrate, and the fine, if any, would have been half- 
a-crown. At Ereetown, the negro, assisted by his 
friends or " company," betakes himself to a lawyer. The 
latter may be a mulatto, possibly a pettifogger, certainly 
a moneyless man who lives in a wretched climate for the 
pure purposes of lucre; his interest is of course to 
promote litigation, and he fills his pockets by what is 

* For amusing specimens of amatory epistles the reader may con- 
sult Mr. Consul Hutchinson's Ten Years' Wanderings among the 
Ethiopians, p. 19, &c. ; and Residence in Sierra Leone, by a Lady. 
IiOndoa : Murray, 1849. 



216 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

called sharp practice. After receiving the preliminary 
fee of 51., he demands exemplary damages c The conse- 
quence was that Mr. M was lightened of 601. 

These vindictive cases are endless ; half-an-hour's 
chat will bring out a dozen, and, as at Aden, the Sons of 
the White Cliffs have nothing to do but to quarrel and 
to recount their grievances. A purser of the African S. 
S. Company, finding a West Indian negro substituting 
dead for live turkeys, called him a "tief." The 
"tief" laid an action for 1000£, and the officer was 
only too happy to escape with the retainer, three guineas. 
The same, when a black came on board for a package, 
sent him off to the quarter-deck ; the fellow became in- 
solent, when a military man present exclaimed, " If you 
gave me that cheek, I'd heave you overboard ! " The 
negro put off, took two of his friends as witnesses, pro- 
cured an affidavit that the white man had threatened 
him, and laid an action for defamation of character, kc. f 
damages, 50/. — a favourite sum. Despite a counter 
oath, signed by two or three English officers, one of 
them a colonel, to the effect that no bad language had 
been used, except by the plaintiff, whose insolence had 
been unbearable, the defendant was compelled to 
make an apology and to pay 15£ costs. Another told 
me that for raising a stick to an insolent servant, he was 
"actioned" for 601., and escaped by compromise for 
\2l. When the defendant is likely to leave the station, 
the modtis operandi is as follows. A writ of summons is 
issued. The lawyer strongly recommends an apology 
for the alleged offence and a promise to pay costs^ 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 217 

warning the offender at the same time that judgment 
will go against him if absent by default. Should the 
defendant prudently "stump up," the thing ends; if 
not, a cajnas is taken out, and the law runs its course. A 
jury is chosen. The British Constitution determines 
that a man must be tried by his peers. His peers at 
S'a Leone are perhaps a dozen full-blooded blacks, libe- 
rated slaves, half-reformed fetishmen, sometimes with 
a sneaking fondness for the worship of Shango,* and if 
not criminals in their own country, at least paupers clad 
in dishclouts and palm oil. To see such peers certainly 
M takes pride down a peg," as the phrase is ; no use to 
think of that ancestor who " came over " with the Con- 
queror, or that barony lost in the days of the Eebellion. 
The excuse is that a white jury cannot be collected out of 
the forty or fifty eligibles in Freetown. The jury — model 
institution — becomes here, as in the United States, a 
better machine for tyranny than any tyrant, except a 
"free people," ever invented. It is useless to "challenge," 
for other negroes will surely take the place of those ob- 
jected to. lS T o one raises the constitutional question, 
are these half-reclaimed barbarians my peers ? And if 
he did, justice would sternly answer " Yes ! v The wit- 
nesses will forswear themselves, not like our posters, for 
half-a-crown, but gratis, because the plaintiff is a fellow- 
tribesman. The judge may be " touched with the tar- 
brush," but be he white as milk, he must pass judg- 

* An Egba deity, the god of fire, &c. Hence Mrs. M informs us 

that " many of the liberated Africans worship lightning " ; and Captain 
Hewett asserts that the " Acoo" (Aku) is a fire-worshipper. 



218 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

ment according to verdict, and when damages are under 
200/. there is no appeal.* 

S'a Leone contains many sable families, — Lumpldns, 
Lewis, Pratt, Ezidio, Nicols, Macarthy, are a few of 
their patronymics, — against whom it is useless for 
a stranger to contend and come off scot and lot free. 



* I am unwilling to let the reader think that the ahove is exaggerated. 
The only proof in my power is the following extract from the ' ' Sierra 
Leone Weekly Times" (June 18th, 1862), the sole paper of any note 
in the colony : — 

' ' And what, we may ask, is its last resort when the engine of in- 
timidation will not effect its purpose ? A British ' Jury. This is the 
real instrument of its power. It would matter little to allow the Aku 
chiefs to decide questions in their societies, were they not able to tell 
those who oppose them, ' Go, then, and see what verdict you will get.' 
Let the jury be abolished, and the Aku chiefs and their myrmidons 
would soon feel that their vocation was gone. In no other way can an 
effectual check be put upon their increasing power. 

"Is it just, is it reasonable, to permit this clan to domineer by means 
of a British jury ? We know of numerous cases where legal men have 
refused to take up causes until assured of the neutrality of the Aku 
chiefs. And can this be otherwise when we see with what relentless 
and ceaseless persecution they pursue even individuals of their own 
tribe who venture to resist them ? 

" To leave the jury in their hands is a denial of justice to the rest 
of the people. 

" Through it they are the tyrants of the law, and every man is at 
their mercy. 

" Societies of this nature cannot be judged of by their rules. What 
can be more seemingly fair and candid than the rules and principles 
put forward by many of the European societies ? And yet they have 
not shrunk from committing the darkest deeds. And can we in calm 
judgment expect better things here ? 

"In solemn earnestness we call upon the people of this colony to 
unite and rid the country of this redoubtable power, and they will 
deserve the gratitude of those great and good men who have been, and 
who still are, the benefactors of the African race." 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 219 

Besides these there are 17 chief and 200 minor tribes, 
whilst 100 languages, according to M. Koelle, — 150, 
says Bishop Yidal, — are spoken in the streets of Free- 
town. All are hostile to one another; all combine 
against the white man, After the fashion of the Gold 
Coast, they have formed themselves into independent 
republics called " companies." These set aside certain 
funds for their own advancement and for the ruin of their 
rivals. The most powerful and influential races are the 
Aku and the Ibo. The Akus, or Egbas, known by 
their long necklaces of tattoo, are called the Jews of 
Western Africa j they are perfect in their combination, 
and they hesitate at no crime. They will poison with 
a pitiless readiness. The system of Egba "clanship," 
as the local papers call it, is a favourite, sometimes an 
all-engrossing topic for invective with the press. This 
worst species of trades-union is characterised, on account 
of its propensity to intimidate, as the " Aku tyranny " 
and the " Aku Inquisition." The native proverb speaks 
the native sentiments clearly enough, — 

" Okan kan li ase ibi, ikoko li ase imolle 
bi atoju imolle tan, ke atoju ibi pella, bi 
aba ku ara enni ni ism' ni." 

"A man must openly practise the duties of relationship, though he 
may privately belong to a secret club : when he has attended to the 
secret club, he must attend to the duties of relationship also, because, 
when he dies, his relations are those who must bury him." 

The Ibos are more divided, still they cleave together on 
especial occasions. Tins large tribe, whose head- 
quarters is Abo, at the head of the Nigerian delta, 
muster strong at S'a Leone, where they are the 



220 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Swiss of the community. It is popularly said the Aku 
will do anything for money, the Ibo will do anything 
for revenge. Both races are intelligent enough to do 
harm — their talents rarely take the other direction. If 
the majority of the jury be Akus, they will unhesi- 
tatingly find the worst of Aku criminals innocent, and 
the most innocent of whites, or Timnis, guilty.* 

Surely such an outrage upon reason — such a cari- 
cature of justice — was never contemplated by British 
laws. Our forefathers never dreamed that the liberty 
and the institutions for which during long centuries 
they fought and bled, would thus be prostituted — be 
lavished upon every black recaptive, belie assassin, thief, 
or wizard, after a residence of some fourteen days in a 
dark corner of the English empire. Even the Irishman 
and the German must pass some five years civilising 
themselves in the United States before they are per- 
mitted to vote. What a curious contrast ! and how 
little it speaks for our sdvoir fair el Eree the slaves if 
you like, and strike the slaver to the ground with his 
victims' fetters ; but ever remember that by far the 
greater number of the liberated were the vilest of crimi- 
nals in their own lands, and that in their case exporta- 
tion becomes, in fact, the African form of transportation. 
If the reader believes that I have exaggerated the state 
of things at S'a Leone, he is mistaken ; the sketch is 

* "Aku constables will not, unless in extreme cases, take up their 
delinquent countryman, nor will an Ebo constable apprehend an Ebo 
thief, and so on through all the different tribes." — Residence in Sierra 
Leone, p. 269. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 221 

under, rather than over drawn. And he will presently 
see a confirmation of these statements in the bad name 
winch liberated Africans bear upon the whole of the 
western coast.* 



* The subjoined extract from the pen of the African editor to the 
" Sierra Leone Weekly Times" (July 30th, 1862) will at least show 
that I am not singular in my opinions. The reader will excuse this 
diffusiveness of refutation. The contrary idea to that advocated above 
is still ruling in England. It will die out because it is based on 
ignorance, but we would all of us fain be in at the death. 

" England's policy has been to allow the unformed mind free scope to 
choose its own views and principles from among the many opposing 
influences surrounding it, without any effort at coercion or direction ; 
and it is not to be wondered at that the savage and untutored mind of 
the African, imbued, like most other barbarous races, with great astute- 
ness and cunning, should have very soon adopted the form of civilisation, 
when it became aware that it would answer its purpose as well as the 
reality. Herein lies the difficulty of forming a correct judgment of the 
effects of our policy of freedom upon the African character. And yet 
what greater proof can be required of the superficial nature of our 
teaching, and of its want of depth and reality, than the well -ascertained 
fact that very few instances can be adduced of aliens, thousands of 
whom are resident, being converted to Christianity or reclaimed from 
barbarism ? Nothing takes root in a vigorous and rich soil without 
extending its influence ; and something radically wrong must exist 
when exertions as disinterested as ever guided a nation in its efforts to 
benefit another, have produced such barren results. Many who have 
studied the African character will bear witness to the truth, that the 
African is a far more innocent and natural creature when he has never 
been brought within the range of civilised life. But the fault lies not 
in any natural incapacity for civilisation, but in our method of im- 
parting it. 

" We shall not be considered as decrying the African race when we 
say that it is not fitted, without a guiding hand, to exercise the 
privileges of English citizenship. We are aware that the opposite 
opinion will have more adherents, such is the infatuation that exists 
upon African questions ; but we have only to point to this colony to 
obtain convincing proofs that we have merely stated a particular appli- 



222 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Evening gathered black and heavy upon the brows of 
the hills. This is the finale of the rains, the Elephanta, 

cation of an universal law — the gradual development of the human 
mind. By adopting a different opinion, and hy following a course 
dictated by opposite views, we have formed a race alike incapable of 
valuing the coarse but instinctive efforts of tbeir forefathers, or the 
refined and purifying elements of civilised life. The next generation 
will give further and more convincing proofs of the correctness of these 
views ; for, with few exceptions, the liberated Africans are far superior 
to the rising generation — in energy, in talents, and in honest principles. 
Our policy of allowing entire freedom in the choice of good or evil is 
answerable for a large share of the evils which exist, and it accounts 
for the want of success which has hitherto attended all the efforts of 
the' Imperial Government. England had it in her power to guard this 
chosen band of Africans from the pollution of clanship and the corrup- 
tion of idleness. Laws of labour may be out of place in England, but 
in Sierra Leone they would have saved an entire population from trust- 
ing to the allurements of a petty, demoralising trade, — they would 
have saved us the sight of decaying villages, and a population becoming 
daily less capable of bearing the laborious toil of agricultural industry. 
To handle the hoe has now become a disgrace ; and the people have lost 
their manhood by becoming gentlemen. We exhibited a farce to the 
civilised world when we appointed learned judges to explain the laws 
of evidence, and the complicated details of civil actions, to juries of 
ignorant Africans just rescued from the bondship, and when we were 
guided by their decisions. A Court of Summary Jurisdiction, presided 
over by men of honour and probity, would have been far more suitable to 
their wants and to their understandings. The chief judge need not have 
held a less dignified position— for purity of justice requires our judges to 
be placed above the possibility of temptation. No one can pretend that 
English criminal jurisprudence is administered with success in Sierra 
Leone ; and latterly less so than formerly, on account of the increasing 
power of Aku clanship. In saying this, we cast no slur upon the 
Bench. The Bench is far above the criticism of any journal, and we 
refer to it merely to reprove the insolence of the Aku apologist who 
accused us, not long since, of such pretensions. The Queen's Bench 
itself would be powerless before the stolid indifference to the sanctity of 
an oath, and the blind obedience to the mandates of chiefs as powerful 
as they are unscrupulous. An English judge has but one duty to per- 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 223 

as it is called by the Hindu, after a certain lunar 
asterism ; and whilst this southerly wind and cloudy sky 
do endure, uncomfortable and unhealthy weather will 
persecute us. Raffales coursed down the Lion's flanks, 
and the rains discharged their batteries with a fearful 
energy and perseverance. So the many who had " a 
liint to stay away" from the station, spent a lively 
evening on board, collecting under the bit of quarter- 
deck awning, as Maitre Aliboron and his friends gather 
together for society under some more impervious tree. 

On the Wednesday morning, which, was tolerably 
clear, though mists were rolling over the highlands, I 
landed with the consul of Fernando Po in the captain's 
gig. At breakfast we had been duly primed with good 

form : to follow the strict rules of law, and the terms of his commission. 
Only the ignorant can boast of the extensive freedom we have given to 
the African. Freedom, indeed, we should have given, but it ought to 
have been qualified to suit their capacities. Let the men who advocate 
the expatriation of the American remember that those whom we brought 
to this colony are fading from the scene, destroyed by the policy which 
transferred them to an enervating climate, and then left them to the 
corrupting influences of an emporium of trade without industiy or 
manufactures. In their stead have arisen the liberated African, and 
that policy which gives them civilisation without industry, must bring 
upon them the like consequences. This blind adherence to precedent 
has allowed the chiefs of the Aku clan — the predominant tribe of 
liberated Africans — to introduce the most degrading system of secret 
tyranny known on the African continent. Aku clanship destroys every 
manly virtue, and neutralises the well-meant but ineffectual efforts to 
form a people which might kindle the ardour of civilisation and 
Christianity among their heathen brethren. Arrest that evil in its 
onward course, and with the commencement of a policy more suitable 
to the wants and to the capacity of the people, Sierra Leone may yet 
redeem the hopelessness of failure." 



224 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

advice, viz., not to notice negro impudence and to turn 
our shoulders — the severest punishment — upon all who 
tried their hands at annoyance. We rowed to the 
Government landing, a rickettv, slippery flight of 
wooden stairs, which is positively dangerous at night or 
when the waves dash against the jetty. We were 
careful to carry no luggage ; porters fight for the job, 
and often let the object of emulation drop into the 
water. One of our mail-bags received this bapteme de 
S'a Leone last night. On such occasions a push or 
poke is a forbidden luxury ; the man might fall down — 
you have certainly injured him internally — you must pay 
exemplary damages. Passing through casks in rows we 
ascended a short steep path leading to Water Street, 
the long broad line which runs along the upper bank. 
Here loud — 

" Sounds the oath of British commerce and the accents of 
Cockayne," 

mixed with fearful language on the part of the 
" African." A guide presented himself in the person 
of Jumbo, a well-known character; and when we 
engaged him, he triumphed over his great rival, 
" General Jackson," with the true negro laugh, ending 
in a chuckle. Our wish was first to post homeward- 
bound letters. Cfeminjhisantwe entered the establish- 
ment of a Mr. Sibyl Boyle, so-called from a ship and 
its skipper; it is the regular colonial store, containing 
everything from a Dutch cheese to a gold ring, and the 
owner, an honourable exception, was civil and honest. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE, 225 

Passing the cathedral, we were shown on its south-west 
a bit of ground appropriated to the " Wilberforce monu- 
ment;" a piece of folly number 'one, for which 3000/., it 
is said, have been subscribed. It is to contain a lecture- 
room and a library, two of the last things wanted in 
such a colony. S'a Leone once had a fine collection 
of books ; of course it was allowed to go to the bad. 
Half way up Gloucester Street, the main line leading to 
Government House, we found the post-office, rank with 
struggling negroes fighting fiercely for " Mas'er 'um 
book." A native policeman, seeing envelopes in my 
hand, motioned me towards a door, which the black 
clerk sensibly but sternly shut in my face. I handed 
the epistles to Jumbo, who, after contending manfully 
for half-an-hour, returned with the stern order to come 
back after noon. The negro postmaster, whom I after- 
wards met in the streets, as sternly confirmed the fact. 
Having thus time to spare, we walked to the top of the 
street, which might be 150 yards long, and found it 
arched with sticks and timbers. This memorial com- 
memorates the auspicious occasion when the colony first 
looked upon a live Royal Highness, a real white Prince ; 
it is to be commemorated by a marble arc-de-triomp7ie, 
for which 700/. have been subscribed; but as 1500/. are 
still wanting, there is not much chance of the present 
architecture undergoing a change. 

Upon this highly interesting spot we stood awhile to 
remark the peculiarities of the place and its position. 
The soil is a loose clay, deep red or brown, and im- 
pregnated with iron, cold and unfertile, as the spon- 



226 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

taneous aloe shows. The subsoil is a rude sandstone, 
also ferruginous : soft and working well under the axe 
when first quarried, it soon hardens into the semblance of 
laterite, and thus weathered, it forms the best of building 
materials. Imbedded in the upper loam are blocks and 
boulders, apparently erratic, dislodged or washed down 
from the upper heights, where similar masses are seen. 
Many are scattered on the surface, as if by an eruption ; 
others lie like slabs, or dwarf domes, upon the shore. 
The shape is usually spheroidal, and the formation 
primitive hypersthene (close-grained bluish granite), or 
greenstone, blackened externally by the sun and 
weather. In the few cuttings of the higher levels I 
afterwards remarked that detached "hardheads" are 
thickly puddinged into the more friable sandstone, but 
nowhere could I see or hear of granitic masses protruded 
from below. The boulders are cleared away by ditching 
and surrounding with a hot fire for forty-eight hours ; 
water, not vinegar, is then poured upon them, causing 
the heated material to contract and fracture, when it can 
easily be removed. Magnetic iron, it is said, is also 
found, but veins of the metal have not yet been dis- 
covered. 

At the future arch four roads meet : that to the left 
leads to the old cemetery, now deserted for the new 
burial-ground on the hill side behind the barracks. 
There are books which suggest a visit to this spot, and 
which promise interesting monuments ; expertzis, I say, 
with Mr. Punch, in his world-famous advice to people 
about to marry, " Don't." Under Jumbo's orders we 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 227 

soon found the place, but the gate was closed and the 
guard absent. After a decent delay, we scaled the wall 
— not a pleasant operation for crinoline, nor agreeable 
in small-clothes, on account of snakes. The tombstones 
are gloomy, heavy parallelopipedons of dingy sandstone, 
which seem better adapted for a press-yard than a church- 
yard; and there is no abuse of epitaphs; after the 
fashion of the tropics, the name is generally considered 
de trojo. Intermural sepulture is now forbidden at 
S'a Leone, as in London ; yet there were several fresh 
graves. 

The weak sex, we were told, here musters strong; 
a curious discrepancy, when they are to the rougher half 
of humanity about one to ten. It is supposed that 
women, being less exposed than men, can better resist the 
climate of S'a Leone. I believe the fact to be the 
contrary ; in many cases the German missionaries have 
lived, whilst their wives have died. Here lie three 
Spanish consuls who in four years fell victims to a cli- 
mate which has slain five captains-general, or governors, 
in five years. A deserted cemetery, without flowers or 
whitewash, is always a melancholy spectacle. This was 
something more. The grass and bush grew dense and 
dank from the remnants of mortality, and the only tree 
within the low decaying walls was a poisonous oleander. 
Another sense than the eye was unpleasantly affected ; 
we escaped from the City of the Slain as from a slave-ship 
or from a plague hospital. 

Our walk had furnished us with a tolerable idea of the 
settlement's plan. Fronting the north-west, it is built 

q2 



228 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

like all the cities of the very old,* the new, and of the 
antipodean worlds, after the fashion of a chess-board, 
in squares and blocks ; the longer streets flank the sea, 
and the shorter run at right angles up the hills behind 
the town. Both are of bright red, always edged, and 
often more than half overgrown with ribbons of green. 
The grass preferred is the American or Bahama, fine, 
silky, and creeping along the ground, which it is said 
to clear of other vegetation ; it forms a good substitute 
for turf, and is used to stuff mattresses. When first 
imported it was neglected, cut away, and nearly died out ; 
but it is now encouraged on account of its keeping down 
the bush, and its velvety plots greatly relieve the glaring 
red surface. The dilapidation of the houses surprised 
me. Some are tumbling down, others have tumbled 
down; many of those standing are lumber, or board 
shanties — " quarter frames " and " ground floors " they 
are called; and the few good abodes appeared quite 
modern. But what can be expected from a place where 
Europeans expect to stay but two years, and where 
Africans, who never yet worked without compulsion, 
cannot legally be compelled to work ? 

From the narrow houses of the dead we turned 
towards the vegetable market, the neat building with 

* For instance, the oldest Athens, from the days of Theseus to those 
of Hadrian, was like modern Boston — a mass of narrow, tortuous alleys, 
on a plan laid out, according to the Americans, hy a wandering cow. 
The newer Athens was rectangular and parallelogramic, like modern 
Washington, but for another reason. The temples of the gods, them- 
selves parallelogramic, like that of Meccah, required broad, straight 
avenues, not the entourage of a St. Paul's Cathedral. 



TEHEE DAYS AT SIEBBA LEONE. 229 

blind arches and flying roof. Externally stone and 
internally brick, tins bazaar has half its floor paved and 
the other half expecting to be. The roof is of iron : grass 
is everywhere too dangerous, palm mats and bamboos are 
hardly better, tile is too heavy, slate too dear, so shingles 
are here mostly used when they are procurable. After 
a rainy season they become grey, and are with difficulty 
distinguished from more expensive material. In cli- 
mates where extremes of heat follow heavy rains, they 
curl up and become chronically leaky. The market — it 
contained some tailors — was full of fat, middle-aged 
negresses, sitting at squat before their " blies" or round 
baskets, which contained a variety and confusion of hete- 
rogeneous articles, of which the following is a list as 
disorderly as the collection which it enumerates. There 
were pins and needles, yarn and thread — in the wilder 
parts, a thorn and a fibre suffice — needle-cases, with all 
kinds of small hardware, looking-glasses in lacquered 
frames, beads of sorts, cowries and achatinse, from which 
an excellent soup, equal to the French snail, is prepared ; 
poor and cheap ginger, — at times the streets are redolent 
of it, — dried bats and rats, which the African, as well as 
the Chinese, loves ; reels of cotton, kolas — here worth 
about one halfpenny, and at Bathurst a penny each — and 
shea-butter nuts, country snuff-boxes of a chestnut-like 
nut, from winch snuff is inhaled, more majorum, through 
a quill ; bluestone, colcothar, and other drugs ; physic 
nuts (tiglium or croton, a favourite but painful native 
remedy), shalots, dried peppers, red and black ; horns of 
goat and antelope, smoked and dried fish, preferred when 



230 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

high, to use the mildest term; ground pig — a large 
rodent that can climb, destroy vegetables, and bite hard 
if necessary — skewered for a rot ; ground-nuts, which the 
Trench have called pistaches, very poor rice,* and fea- 
thers of the plantain bird. To the walls were suspended 
dry goods, red woollen nightcaps and comforters, leo- 
pards' and monkey skins, and the spoils of an animal 
that might have been a gazelle. The fruits were sweet 
sop — the East Indian custard-apple, — soursop {A. muri- 
cata), citrons, oranges, grown in the mountain districts, 
sweet limes, bananas, a finer kind of musa, and plantains, 
— which are the horseplantain of Hindostan, — pineapples, 
mangos terribly terebinthine,f bitter oranges, unsweet- 
ened guavas, J the " monkey-plum," or " apple," and the 
" governor's plum." The avocado, which the English call 
alligator pear (P. gratissima), is inferior to the Mexican ; 
those fond of it compare the fruit to the flavour of the 
finest filberts ; I detect in it an unripe melon freshly 
taken out of Harrowgate water. The granadilla is not 
unlike a papaw,§ the flesh is neglected, whilst the seeds 

* There are three kinds of grain : — 1. The large Mandenga. 2. The 
red rice of Sherbro, which is easily husked : this is rarely grown at 
S'a Leone. 3. A liliputian variety, about the size of mignionette, 
said to grow in light rocky soils. The natives call it fundi fundungi, 
or "hungry rice." As a rule, the rice at S'a Leone is dark, but it 
is superior in flavour to the Indian. 

t It is a common trick to hack the Mango trunk when the fruit 
begins to appear : the flavour is improved by the gum flowing off, but 
the produce is diminished. 

$ The guava is made to lose its strong medicinal flavour by opening 
he trunk, and by inserting with a brush a little honey or sugar and 
water. 

§ The reader who possesses not the wrinkle, is strongly advised to 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 231 

and their surroundings are eaten with sherry and sugar ; 
here, however, they are far inferior to the South 
American. The consul preferred it to all those of Panama 
— perhaps for reasons best known to himself. The 
only enjoyable fruit that I tasted at S'a Leone was 
the strawberry guava, as it is locally called : it has a 
delicate, sub-acid flavour, not easily equalled. Perhaps 
it might be introduced into the South of Trance ; let 
me recommend the Societe d' Acclimatisation to elect a 
few honorary members, and not — as they now do — to 
expect that travellers will pay for the pleasure of serving 
them. The principal vegetables were watercress, onions, 
and various bulbs, calavances or beans, okras, bengans or 
egg-plants, yams, kokos, and sweet potatoes. The 
edibles are fufu, balls of finely -levigated cassava flour, 
sweet agadi, boiled rice or maize wrapped up in leaves, 
and ginger-cake ; whilst toddy was the principal drink. 

Between the market and the sea is the butchers' yard, 
a ragged and uncleanly strip of ground. The cattle are 
small, humpless, and long-horned, brindled, or dun, like 
the Alderney cow ; when small, they cost SI. They are 
driven in from the Pula country and the interior, and 
their beef tastes not unlike what one imagines the pro- 
duce of a knacker's yard to be. It is peculiar, yet true, 
that nearly all the meat thus supplied to an emancipated 
colony and to anti-slave cruisers, has been bought with 
slaves. Buffaloes once existed here and on the Bananas ; 

boil the unripe fruit of this tree : it is almost as good as vegetable 
marrow. Also, if cleaned out, filled with forcemeat, and baked, it 
much resembles the " badinjan mahshi," or stuffed egg-plants of Egypt. 



232 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

they are not found now. Milk is dear, and not plen- 
tiful ; Englishmen raw in the tropics object to goat, 
but frequently put up with milch-pig — they are said to 
be kept for the purpose here — or with a something worse. 
Butter is oily and rancid. Hogs, as might be expected, 
are common as in Ireland; there are also long, lean, 
hairy, black and white sheep, which do not supply an 
excellent mutton. Goats are plentiful, and their flesh 
would be good if it had any taste. The poultry list 
comprises fowls and partridges, ducks and geese, the 
Muscovy or Manilla duck, and the spur-winged goose 
from Sherbro. 

Behind the meat market is a double row of houses 
with shops upon the ground-floor, not unlike a Banyan's 
street in India, but infinitely smaller, meaner, dirtier. 
Here the stranger can buy dry goods and a few curiosi- 
ties of Mandenga manufacture — grigris, spears, bows, 
and saddles and bridles, like those of the Somal, both 
perfectly useless. The leather, however, is excellent, 
second only to that of Morocco. A dirty hovel, inscribed 
"Lunch-house" on a sign-board, flanked by a Union 
Jack and a Yankee gridiron, represents the American 
hotel, a hole kept by a Liberian negro; it is the only 
hostelry in the place. 

Having exhausted the bazaars, and the mystic hour of 
twelve having struck, we again repaired to the Post-office, 
where, by displaying that humility and respectfulness 
that became us in the presence of a superior race, Don 
Jaek-in-office graciously permitted us to post our letters. 
TYe then passed under the triumphal arch of African 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 233 

architecture — it felt somewhat like being sent classically 
sub jugum — and struck up the road leading to Govern- 
ment House. At the porter's lodge — it was shaded by 
a fine bamboo, here an exotic brought from the East or 
West Indies — a constable carried arms, and showed us 
into a shrubbery of great beauty. I can understand how, 
with the immense variety of bud, flower, and fruit sud- 
denly presented to his eyes, the gentleman fresh from 
England took six months to recover the full and free use 
of all his senses. 

At the entrance-portico stood a Zouave sentinel. The 
residence is large and rambling, built, like many of our 
English country houses, piecemeal ; there is nothing to 
recommend it but the inmates and the fine view of the 
sea below. We spent a pleasant day at Government 
House, in the " Red Grave," as this portion of the 
great cemetery of the Anglo-Saxon race is called. 

Anxious to obtain information touching the palm-nut 
and kernel trade, we called upon the principal commer- 
cial authority, and one of the Legislative or Executive 
Council (styled Hon.). When the nut was shown to 
him, the consul at once recognised a species different 
from that which he had found at Zanzibar and in Cen- 
tral Africa. There the fruit was in berries, like a highly- 
magnified grape-bunch; here it is as a spike; this, 
moreover, it is much smaller and less fleshy than on the 
other side of the Continent. The oil-trade of the West 
African coast barely dates from the beginning of this 
century. In 1808, 200 tons, or 8000£ worth (as- 
suming the ton =40/.), were exported. In 1856, under 



234 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the influence of demand and steam navigation, not to 
mention the suppression of slave-export, which drove 
the natives into the hard and narrow path of legitimate 
trade, the export had risen to 40,000 tons, representing 
two millions of pounds sterling,* now reduced to one 

* The value of the palm oil imported into the United Kingdom 
annually exceeds one and a-half million sterling ; the quantity in 
1861 amounted to 740,332 cwts. Compared with the imports of this 
article in 1860, this shows a falling-off to the extent of 63,994 cwts. 
With the exception of about 27,000 cwts. brought from Portugal, the 
United States, British India, West India Islands, and other countries 
not specified in the official returns, the entire supplies are obtained 
from the various settlements on the Western Coast of Africa. 

The quantities and places of shipment for the years 1860 and 1861, 
together with the values and prices for the latter year, are sub- 
joined : — Imported in Value. Aver. pr. 
1860 1861. 1861. 1861. 
Cwts. Cwts. £ £ s. d. 
Portugal . . . 6,250 4,250 9,173 2 3 2 
Fernando Po . . . 4,347 6,842 14,615 2 2 9 
Portuguese Possessions on 

Western Africa . . — 6,077 13,227 2 3 6 

Western Africa (not desig- 
nated) .... 754,087 657,765 1,403,541 228 
United States, Northern 

Atlantic Ports . . — 7,616 16,150 2 2 5 

Sierra Leone . . . 9,288 15,637 33,543 2 2 11 
British Possessions on the 

Gold Coast . . 16,866 27,057 58,551 2 3 3 

India, Singapore & Ceylon — 10,724 21,716 2 6 

British West India Islands 9,571 3,060 6,630 2 3 4 

Other Countries . . 3,917 1,304 2,807 2 3 1 



Totals . . 804,326 740,332 1,579,953 

740,332 



Decrease in 1861 . 63,994 
With the exception of 52,515 cwts., the whole of the above was 
brought into this country in British vessels. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 235 

and a-lialf. It increases, however, and though the earth 
oils of the Far West and Bussian tallow will presently 
cause great changes in the trade, it is capable of an 
almost unlimited development. 

Before 1850 the kernels were thrown away, after the 
native fashion, despite their valuable yield of oil — 30 
per cent. — their cake, useful for fattening animals, and 
their refuse to be converted into compost. In that year 
4096 bushels of husked kernels found their way to 
England. In 1856 the total shipped from S'a Leone 
and the adjacent coast was 150,000 bushels of charred 
kernels, which, at a minimum of Sol. per ton of oil and 
Si. per ton of cake, would represent 48,000/.* There is 
evidently much to be done in this way. The want of 
population and industry must be supplied by effectual 
machinery, which has not yet been invented. At pre- 
sent, in the oil rivers, the kernels are either tin-own 
away or used as fuel ; at Badagry shiploads are lying 
about, but no one takes the trouble to collect them. 
Moreover, the English manufacturer must learn from 
the Marseillais the best and most economical methods of 
purifying and preparing the oil. The natives toast the 
nuts over a wood fire, pound them in large wooden 
pestles, and boil the mass in country pots. The scum 
is then skimmed off, and is known as black or nut-oils. 
Other tribes burn the nut, and collect the fatty matter 
that drips, from it. Mr. Macgregor Laird's fellow-explorer 

* The figures are taken from the Hon. Mr. Heddle's letter of May 8, 
1857, published in Dr. Baikie's "Report upon the Development of the 
Trade of Central Africa." 



236 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

of the Niger, Mr. Olcifield, who died at S'a Leone id 
1859, used to extract from the neglected kernels a 
beautiful clear oil, equal to the newly -discovered 
paraffin. 

The mercantile world in England is too apt to imagine 
that, because the West Africans have opened the palm- 
oil trade, they will succeed in cotton-growing. The 
deduction is not fair. The former is easy, the latter dif- 
ficult, to cultivate ; this wants regular labour at epochs 
verging upon the excessive, that is the lightest form of 
work. As yet, cotton has never been grown to perfection 
except by slave races — those of the Southern States 
of America. Egypt ranks, or rather ranked, next during 
the days of Mohammed Ali Pasha, who confiscated all 
the acres not devoted to his favourite growth ; and India 
— a free country, but a starving — brings up the rear. 

"We were shown some specimens of the gum copal, 
from Mallicorie, a district about thirty miles north of the 
river, and from the lowlands about Sherbro Island. It 
was lumpy, and of a dead, dull white colour, like the 
best gum Arabic ; the absence of the goose skin proved 
it to be what is called in Zanzibar chakazi, jackass, or 
raw copal. We tasted some coffee, growing wild — 
nearly in the parallel of Mocha, between the rivers 
Pongo and Nunez, which, according to accounts, the 
Erench have lately annexed. The territory comprises 
about fifty miles of coast, with an unknown interior 
depth along the latter river, possibly extending to Kara- 
gwah, where the shrub grows spontaneously, and to that 
Kafa, which may have suggested to the Arabs a name 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 237 

for the new beverage.* The Trench traders prefer the 
small, bright, brown-yellow beans to the Mocha, and are 
rapidly monopolising the supply. Another native pro- 
duct which will become valuable is the "tallow-nut," 
locally called "mut." It is taken from a pod, and re- 
sembles in size and shape the Brazil nut; the tree, 
though rendered rare by destructive bush-burning, 
still lingers on the hills behind Freetown, and may be 
found growing wild all along the coast. These pro- 
ductions of West Africa are of many different kinds, and 
few of them are as yet known. The West African trade, 
which in these parts is now four centuries old, will soon 
develope itself in good earnest. Formerly ships were 
contented to anchor off the mouths of rivers, and to sail 
away with a little gold-dust, ivory, and pepper, and a 
few slaves. Now, agents and masters will push then- 
way into the more salubrious interior, and open up new 
and unexploited sources of wealth. When Sanitaria 
shall be erected, and the white population settled at an 
altitude above sea level, where it can retain its energy 
and resolution, when greater facilities of locomotion and 
intercourse are afforded, and, lastly, when the Africans 
are compelled by circumstances to become a working 
people, the "Black Coast" will become a valuable 
possession. 

* Coffee, it is well known, was introduced into Arabia by the 
Shaykh el Sbazeli, who had visited Harar and possibly southern Abys- 
sinia ; "Kafa," the name of the place that supplied the plant, would 
account for the reason why the Arabs chose for it the old word " Kah- 
wah," which means old wine. If coffee be indigenous to West Africa, 
it is another instance of Abyssinian vegetation extending to the opposite 
coast. 



238 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

On the morning of the next day appeared alongside 
of us the gunboats, bringing a different class of objects 
— servants and beasts. Ships in these latitudes become 
small menageries, especially when homeward bound : 
every one is anxious to carry something back — a grey 
parrot, or a pair of palm-birds, a monkey, a mongoose, 
or a ground-pig. Darkey has heard of certain small 
sums having been cleared thus in England ; he therefore 
asks from twice to ten times the value of his live goods. 
An otter, from the rivulets behind Freetown, was bought 
for three half-crowns; sundry snakes were offered for 
sale — the Mandenga snake, three to four feet long, black 
upon a yellow ground,"* and a venomous-looking cobra 
with flat cordiate head, broad like all the more ferocious 
animals. "Whilst the owners are " making trade," the 
"pull-a-boys" amuse themselves with hauling in flat fish, 
which, on account of its bonyness, no one but themselves 
will eat. Servants in shoals presented themselves beg- 
ging " mas'er " to take them down coast. In vain ; the 
S'a Leone man is handier than his Southern brother, 
lie can mend a wheel, make a coffin or cut your hair, 
operations which in other places must remain wanted. 
Yet no one — at least if not a perfect greenhorn on the 
coast — will engage him in any capacity. In civility and 
respectfulness, he is far below the Brazilian or the 
Cuban emancipado. He has learned a " trick or two i" 
even a black who has once visited Sierra Leone is con- 
sidered spoiled for life, as if he spent a year in England. 

* It is described to be a small boa, but I did not see it. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 239 

Ship masters prefer the "blue nose" — the Kruman — from 
Cape Palmas, despite the taunt of being a "bush boy " 
thrown at him by his more civilised companions of 
S'a Leone. The S'a Leone man is an inveterate thief; 
he drinks, he gambles, he intrigues, he over-dresses 
himself, and when he has exhausted his means, he makes 
master pay for all. "With a terrible partiality for sum- 
monsing and enjoying himself thoroughly in a court 
of law, he enters into the spirit of the thing like an 
attorney's clerk; he soon wearies of the less exciting 
life in the wilder settlements, where debauchery has not 
yet developed itself, — home sickness then seizes him, and 
he deserts, after probably robbing the house. He is the 
horror of Europeans; the merchants of the Gaboon 
Eiver prefer forfeiting the benefits of the A. S. S. 
to seeing themselves invaded by this locust tribe, 
whose most beautiful view is apparently that which 
leads out of S'a Leone. At Lagos and Abeokuta 
S'a Leone has returned to Ins natural paganism, and 
has become an inveterate slave-dealer, impudently 
placing himself under native protection and renegading 
the flag that saved him from life-long servitude. Even 
during the Blackland's short stay, the unruly, disorderly 
character of the man often enough showed itself by fisti- 
cuffing, pulling hair, and cursing, with a mixture of 
English and African ideas, that presented a really por- 
tentous tout ensemble. 

Landing at the slippery Government wharves — it 
must be a black joke on a rough night, when you know 
that a few feet below you there may be a shark with six 



240 WAXDEFJXQS IX WEST AFRICA. 

rows of teeth, and jaws that will decapitate a horse — we 
proceeded to spend our second day at S'a Leone. 
The sensation was of a hot and sickly heat, not as it 
is generally described, of a "furnace presenting its 
parched mouth." Mr. Jumbo had promised to procure 
me a carriage, and had failed ; he therefore received what 
is popularly called "the sack." The swells keep vehicles, 
and there are a few for hire ; but when the carriage is 
forthcoming, the horse is down, and when the horse is 
up, the carriage is nowhere. Horses live at S'a Leone 
a maximum of four years, and generally die of staggers, 
caused by the worm, or of loin disease — paralysis of the 
hind-quarters. They come from the Eula, Susu and 
Mandenga countries ; they are mere tattoos, with mouths 
like old boots ; and they are generally very vicious, 
from ill-treatment. The best fodder is the ground-nut 
leaf, and the precaution is to keep them out of draughts 
by day and protect them from cold at night. Despite 
which they soon lose strength and pluck, becoming mis- 
placed as an Arab in Malabar. Even English dogs, if 
they are to be kept in this world, must be tended as 
carefully as babies at home, rigorously limited to soup 
and farinaceous diet once a day, with sulphur and water 
to drink, and be washed, combed and dressed morning 
and evening. Asses, as usual, in Africa live where 
horses die, and perhaps mules from Tenerife or Cape 
Yerde Islands might survive their nobler dams. 

Failing to secure a carriage or a hammock — there are 
some pretty networks, red, black and yellow — we pro- 
ceeded on foot, under the guidance of a commissariat 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 241 

.officer, to call upon the Rev. Mr. Jones, a West Indian, 
one of the oldest inhabitants in the place, and the best 
preacher. He formerly edited the " African Herald/'' a 
" coloured," perhaps I might say a buff, organ. Since 
that time it has or has not passed out of his hands, and 
become the "African Weekly Times." The " Sierra 
Leone Gazette " was given up when the Wesley an 
Methodist Society established in July, 1842, the "Sierra 
Leone Watchman." A second journal has been started, 
the "Eree Press;" a radical paper, representing Young 
S'a Leone, and the editor is always quoted as the 
"funny man/' the "serio-comic party," and in reply he 
has used up all his adjectives. A third is about to issue, 
the "Intelligencer," a white or "blue" paper, intruded 
to prove, if possible, the truth of what has sometimes 
been asserted at negro indignation meetings, namely, 
that a white man, if he " behaves himself," is as good 
as a black man. Journalism * at S'a Leone is still, as 
might be expected, in the lowest stage of Eatenswillism 
— a melancholy contrast to its brother of Liberia. Mr. 
Jones, who is a walking register of local events, was at 
the time of our visit proceeding to perform a very grand 
marriage ceremony at the cathedral — for the less civilised 
the people, the more importance they attach to the 

* The following is a list of journals now published on the west coast 
of Africa, from Cape Spartel to the Cape of Good Hope : — 

S'a Leone— 1. African Weekly Times ; 2. Free Press. 

Liberia — 1. Cavala Messenger, Cape Palraas ; 2. Liberia Herald ; 
3. Monrovia Messenger. 

Gold Coast— West African Herald. 

Abeokuta — Iwe Irohin. 

vol. I. £ 



242 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

display which I, for one, begging pardon of all Belgravia, 
consider a most barbarous and indelicate exhibition. 
He kindly turned back, invited us into his house and 
gave us the required information. He spoke highly of 
Dr. Winterbottorn's book on S'a Leone, published in 
1804. The author was a surgeon in the service of the 
old West India Company, which has produced so many 
eminent men, amongst whom Dr. Copland, the cele- 
brated compiler of the "Dictionary of Practical Medi- 
cine," may be cited. He lived long enough to see his 
writings well " shroffled," without acknowledgment, by 
all subsequent travellers, and three years ago he died 
at Shields. Mr. Jones also commended the "White 
Man's Grave," by Mr. Rankin, colonial chaplain at 
Gambia, and " Missions in Western Africa," published 
by the Tract Society. As regards "A Eesidence in 
Sierra Leone, by a Lady," the opinions of the colony ran 
high against this "Bird's Eye View," because of its 
truthfulness. The lady was the wife of a pensioned 
judge of the Mixed Customs Court, lived seven years 
secluded at Carnes' Farm, and is said to have painted 
life at S'a Leone in exceptionally sombre colours. Her 
sketch of a sojourn upon the Lion's Eange is certainly 
not tempting. Young gentlemen about to marry in 
England hide the work from the fair intendeds. I 
cannot, however, but admire the elaborate sketches of 
scenery, and the fidelity of those descriptions concerning 
which I have a right to form an opinion. 

After taking leave of Mr. Jones, who concluded some 
excellent advice about retaining life in the tropics, with 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 243 

the valuable motto "Take it easy," I proceeded to 
inspect the only antiquity which S'a Leone knows. 
It is an outscarp of primitive rock, below King Jim- 
my's bridge and alongside the waterworks. According 
to some, Sir Francis Drake, the discoverer of California 
and its gold, and the brave knight of whom the Virgin 
Queen said, that "his actions did him more honour 
than his title," here left his name with the date of his 
first visit ; others have correctly attributed it to Sir John 
Hawkins, the great slaver. In 1562," this captain landed 
at S'a Leone, freighted three ships with 300 negroes, 
and carried them to St. Domingo : he returned to Eng- 
land, after making a goodly sum of money, in September, 
1563. In the next year he sailed with the Solomon, the 
Swallow, the Brazen Tyger, and the Jesus of Liibeck ; — 
what a name for such an errand ! In one place he could 
purchase only 10 negroes; "obtained with the loss of seven 
of his best men, among whom was the captain of the Solo- 
mon, besides seven-and-twenty men wounded." On the 
27th January, 1565, he went to the West Indies, and 
"brought the Spaniards to reason;" in other words, 
forced them to take his live cargo at Burboroata. He 
was assisted by the merchant princes of London, and he 

* The first cargo was run by Gilianez, in 1442. Missionaries and 
lecturers are exceedingly fond of charging the miseries of Africa upon 
Europeans, especially the English. This is partly true, as far as inter- 
tropical West Africa goes. The north, however, must have sent many 
millions of slaves, in olden times, to the shores of the Mediterranean, 
and the " Peri plus of the Red Sea" speaks of the trade on the eastern 
coast as if it had long been established. However, such clap-trap 
looses the purse-strings — as it is intended to do— and is a safe hit 
where not one in 1000 hearers knows anything of the subject. 

R 2 



244 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

obtained a patent for his crest, "a demi-moor in his 
proper colour/' Bat two centuries afterwards he would 
probably have been hung, so rapid is our progress in 
morality. In 15G7 he attacked Cape Yerde, where many 
of his men were wounded with poisoned arrows, which 
brought on what appeared to be tetanus. He was a fellow- 
combatant with Drake against the Armada, and died in 
1595. The memory of this old naval worthy blossoms 
in the dust at S'a Leone as the "first slaver." 

The tramp of negro feet and the waters of the rivulet 
have totally effaced the inscription, which was, they say, 
legible 20 years ago. The rock is covered with griffon- 
ages, and some well-cut square letters extending to the 
ground : it is easy to read, 

M. A. RYITER 

YICE— AMIRALL— 

VAN— HOLLANT. 

Near this rock is King James's well, a spring of great 
purity, which supplies the shipping. On the other side 
of the ravine is the town gaol, at the south-west end, 
near what is called " Kru-town brook," a mountain 
drain. This prison is conducted on philanthropic prin- 
ciples ; the daily allowance is a quart of rice, and a 
quarter gill of salt, and the prisoners lie on their backs 
and sing comic songs like sepoys. 

As no carnage was forthcoming, we hired a boat, and 
proceeded westwards along the shore, wishing to see the 
"fashionable" drive to Kissy, where local honeymoons 
are spent, the racecourse, which, as in India, forms the 
favourite riding-ground, and the site of Granville Town. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 245 

The day cleared up, the sun shone warm and bright; 
the white sand beach and eternal verdure of the low 
Bui lorn shores were invested with a halo of beauty, which 
it derived from on high ; and the colours were those of 
Heligoland in the song, — gold sand, green strand, red 
land, all set in lapis lazuli above, and sapphire framework 
below. The scenery of the lovely charnel-house thus 
seen is charming, mats cest la mort — it is the terrible 
beauty of death. Mrs. M well describes this sen- 
sation : "I felt amidst all the glory of tropic sunlight 
and everlasting verdure, a sort of ineffable dread con- 
nected with the climate." Even when leaving the 
"pestilent shore," she was "haunted by its shadowy 
presence." This is womanly, but a little reflection must 
suggest it to man. Passing north of Battery Point, 
alias Port Palconbridge, and other high-sounding 
names, we debouched upon a deep little bight or cove, 
Susan or Sawpit Bay, which much resembled those 
described during our steaming in. It is also called 
Destruction Bay — a gloomy name, — where ships con- 
victed of carrying "Bales," "Dry goods," or "Black- 
birds," were broken up ; some traces still remain. The 
washerwomen were at their craft, the sawpits were idle, 
and the more juvenile, dressed secundum naturam, were 
bathing. The Susu and other African tribes used to 
punish by slavery a man who looked upon the fair sex 
"cleaning" itself, and a few years ago an English 
traveller thus committing himself was severely flogged. 
Prom behind Susan Bay the huts of the lower town 
stretch upwards, rounding Barrack Hill, and looking, 



246 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

not unlike the architecture of white ants. Another 
shoally projection introduced us to Fourah Bay, of 
which "Susan" is a section. In the high background 
is a fine brook, cold, clear, and pure, affording a 
delicious bath; it is almost dry in the hot season, 
and it swells to a fiumara during the rains. Its 
extent was then a diminutive rivulet, tumbling some 
2000 feet down a shelving bed; it falls into Gran- 
ville Bay, that adjoins Fourah. The neighbourhood 
used to be dangerous at night — many murders were 
committed there. On the way we passed boats 
manned by the Timni — Timmani, Timaneh, Timnay, 
Temneh, or "Timne," as M. Koelle's "Polyglotta 
Africana" prefers to call them. Of old the lords of 
S'a Leone, they still come down for trade from Porto 
Logo, "Waterloo, and other places up the river, with 
rice and cocoa-nuts, and not unfrequently console 
themselves for their losses by a little hard fighting; 
witness their defence of the Moduka stockade in De- 
cember 1861.* The boats are heavy row barges, 

* The following is a brief account by one of the Government officers : — 

"Head-quarters, Dec. 19, 1861. 
"My dear Sir, — You -will like to hear the news — 40 Timanehs hare 
been killed ; only five dead bodies were found in the stockade. The 
slaughter was by our allies, the Kossos, living in the country, who 
took advantage of the flight from the stockade, followed them through 
the night, and burnt six of their towns. The 40 killed are well-authen- 
ticated and their names known ; probably many more whom we have 
not yet heard of. They must have carried the wounded out of the 
stockade when they fled. The attack commenced about 4 p.m. on the 
18th. All the troops, with the exception of the gunners and officers, 
were ordered to lie down and wait the assault. It was while at the 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 247 

with a framework of sticks for an awning over the 
stern ; an old Mandenga with white beard sits at 
each helm. They row simplex mundltiis — at S'a Leone 
a man is punished for not wearing breeches, and thus 
the place becomes a rag-fair. The Timni men are 
dark negroids, with the slightest infusion of Semitic 
blood; some had their eyelids and part of their faces 
coated with chalk for ophthalmia. They appeared to be 
merry fellows enough, and were certainly the only men 
in the colony who pretended ever to work. From afar, 
melting into hazy indistinctness, appeared the bluish 
sails of little boats which carry a proportionally immense 
amount of muslin ; of these fishing-boats some ply by 
day, others by night. Arriving at a rocky point below 
the missionary establishment, now partly converted into 
a bishop's palace, we disembarked and visited the place. 
It nestles comfortably near the Hippodrome of S'a 
Leone and Granville Bay, where " satisfactions " are 
given. A satirical doctor declares that during 40 years 
of rencontres there has not been a single casualty ; he 
is more witty than wise : I heard of one gentleman who 
had been winged. Old Granville Town has completely 



gun that Sergeant Knight was killed, being shot through the head. 
Finding that the gun was doing little execution, the commander of the 
troops, Major Hill, turned to Captain Jones to ask him about assault- 
ing, when he received a shot between the chest and shoulder-blade. Cap- 
tain Jones advanced immediately, and the place was taken in 11 minutes. 
"Return of Casualties. — Major Hill, wounded dangerously; Captain 
Jones, wounded slightly ; Captain Williams, wounded slightly ; Ser- 
geant C. Evans, wounded slightly ; three privates, wounded dangerously; 
irregular troops, 20, some dangerously wounded, and others slightly." 



248 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

disappeared, the ruins of the last house are gone from 
the broad grassy plain on which the first colonists pitched 
their tents. North-eastward stretches the mysterious 
river, which for 400 years has, like the Nile and the 
Niger, concealed its head from the white man's gaze. 
Nothing would be easier than the exploration. With 
a little Arabic literature and Mandenga vernacular, a 
traveller, properly attired and accoutred, would, I believe, 
find this an excellent point de depart. 

We returned by the "Kissy Road," the pet promenade 
and show walk of the place. The vegetation was mag- 
nificent, running up to the feet of the hills that rise 
suddenly from the plain. The approach to S'a Leone 
was heralded by a row of shops, much smaller and more 
miserable than those near the market-place. There are 
whole streets of these rabbit-hutches, the contents of 
which, "mam my/' when day is done, carries home in 
a bly upon her head, possibly leaving " titty ? ' to look 
after the remnant till she returns. The stock in trade 
may represent a capital of 4/., the profits Is. per diem. 
Yet M daddy" calls himself merchant, gets credit, and 
passes his evening in smoking cabbage-leaf cigars — as a 
gentleman should — with his friends. 

That evening was to witness an important event. The 
bachelors of Tower Hill Barracks had invited various 
guests, of whom I had the honour to be one, a diner, 
at 7 p.m. Dr. Morphew kindly sent me a nag, and at 
6 p.m. I found myself jogging up the steep ascent. 
The difference of temperature explained the superior 
salubrity of the place. The officers are not paler nor 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 249 

more emaciated than those of an East Indian corps, and 
of the men — no economy, they fall off as rapidly as 
Europeans in these lands — only four had died in the 
eight months after their arrival. During the terrible 
yellow fever of 1858-59,* when the lower town was 
almost depopulated, and all who could manage to retreat, 
retreated, the only fatal cases in the barracks were those 
brought up from the low land, and the disease did not 
spread there. Tower Hill derives its name from a ruined 
martello, supposed to have been built by the Dutch, and 
now used for stores. The barracks are composed of six 
large bungalows, built on the hill crest, and the area or 
yard is girt with a low, dark, loop-holed wall, and easily 
accommodates the garrison,t two companies of the second 
West India regiment, with two captains and two sub- 
alterns — all the rest being on the staff or on detached 
duty. They contain cool and lofty rooms twenty 
feet high, — including a billiard - room with a table 
curiously levelled, — and are surrounded by shady and 
airy piazzas, where the wind, when there is any, must find 
its way. Eor many years they had jalousies and half- 
windows only, instead of glass, which forced the inmates 

* During this year, of 120 whites, 30 left the place, 30 died, and 
of the remainder few escaped without sickness. The epidemics of 
1839-1840, and of 1847-1848, were nearly as bad. In the former, 
Warburg's drops were, it is said, tried, and, succeeding with fever, they 
failed to cure yellow fever. Government has very properly ordered 
another trial. There is a popular superstition that every tenth year is 
a "clearer off" at S'a Leone. The elements fight against it, but 
unfortunately man will not trouble himself to fight against the elements. 

f I could learn nothing concerning the S'a Leone militia, except 
that the company's officers and the adjutant are supplied by the line. 



250 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

to sit in darkness during rain. I sat there to enjoy the 
view. Though the season of the smokes has not set 
in, the sun, with rays of lilac red, set over a splendid 
panorama of land, sea, and town, whose homeliness 
had now disappeared. Mingling afar with the indis- 
tinctness of the horizon, the nearer waters set off by 
their golden and silvery sheen the capes and far pro- 
jecting tongues which stretched in long perspective 
below; while the Sugarloaf, father of mountains, rose 
in solitary dignity high above the subject hills. It 
was truly a beautiful prospect. On the near slope of 
Station Point I saw the first of the 'bush burnings; 
they are like prairie fires in these lands, and sometimes 
they encircle Freetown with a wall of flame. 

Night comes on quickly in equinoctical regions;* 
it was announced by the grating of crickets, the buzzing 
of beetles and cockroaches, and a frog concert, where 
the orchestra was in superior strength. We dined in the 
mess-room, which was hung round with palm-leaves. The 
servants were orderlies in white cotton clothes, including 
gloves and chokers; the style of waiting seemed to 
consist chiefly of staring wildly at you, or indulging in 
a broad grin when you call for any article, and then, 
as if by sudden inspiration, rushing off to fetch the 
wrong thing. It seems impossible to persuade the 
negro mind that fish and beef are not eaten together, 
and that the same plate is not intended to hold, at one 

* In this latitude the English day is 12 hrs. 29 sec. 45 min. ; the 
shortest, 11 hrs. 30 sec. 14 min. ; and the maximum of difference, 
49 min. 31 sec. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 251 

time, pork and mutton. And as they prefer that 
your coat should suffer rather than their own, a cham- 
pagne bottle is rarely opened without a mishap, perhaps 
a cork in the eyes of some very testy elderly official. 
The style of a regiment may be known by its mess. 
"When strangers are welcomed, introduced to the 
u women," and placed near them in good seats ; when 
all the officers take wine — 'tis an obsolete custom, but 
a kindly — with them, and do not await an introduc- 
tion before addressing them ; when the bottle circu- 
lates freely, after the cloth, the chaplain, and the 
crinolines have been removed, and when introductions 
to pretty partners follow, — then we, the stranger-world, 
cannot but enjoy ourselves. After the feed, the room 
was cleared, and dancing was done to the sounds of fife 
and drum, which were excellent. How much better are 
these simple instruments than the terrible medley which 
so offends the ear of taste in military bands, — and from 
the brass bands may Phoebus Apollo deliver me ! The 
African climate, however, has a mood too melting to 
render dancing pleasant or even pleasing to look at. 
And no Englishman seems to think that the inexorable 
day comes, the day of stoutness in the waist, of face 
scarlet as the coat, and — how shall I say it ? of 
perspiratory excess (will that do ?) — when he should 
abandon the seducing enjoyment. But no ! he dances, 
and he dances on like an upright turtle revolving upon 
its own pivot, topped with perchance bald scalp or grey 
bristles, which, seen under such influences, are not 
honourable. Let us, my middle-aged friends ! leave 



252 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

these graceful exercises to graceful youth — especially in 
the tropics. 

Individually disliking to stand in a doorway, and 
witness a style of saltation which European fastidious- 
ness has deprived of all its charms, I retreated to an 
officer's quarters, where with a pleasant companion who 
could speak of the " absent but not forgotten/' and 
alternate silence sweetened by the herb which Thevet 
invented and Nicot named and sang, 

" Tabac ! Tabac ! mes plus cheres amours !" 

— of course there was nothing more material upon the 
table — I spent an agreeable evening. The Freetown day 
usually concludes, as in Indian out-stations, with a mild 
game of whist ; it may be a pleasant amusement, but, in 
my humble opinion, cards with small stakes are some- 
what like writing a book gratis. We took leave, about 
the merrier hours, of our hospitable hosts, and descended 
the hill en masse, with a lantern to preserve our shins 
from boulders, and our total selves from ditches and 
ravines. The town of course was dead asleep, but my 
companion's gig was waiting at the shipping stairs, 
despite which and the sharks, I found myself, at 2 a.m., 
once more on board the African steam-ship "Blackland." 
Our departure from S'a Leone was advertised for 
the next morning, Friday. It was regretted by none, 
despite the hospitalities of the place, except by our 
Frenchman, who, having found at the Spanish vice- 
consul's une cuisine Francaise, appeared willing to pitch 
his tent in the lion's den. The morning broke dull and 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEOXE. 253 

grey, heavy lowering clouds banking up from the Home 
of Fevers, the long, low Bullom shore, and the air was 
rather warm than cool, as heavy rains entitled us to 
expect. In the tropics it is still a tenet, doubtlessly 
inherited, that rising with the lark — to use a home 
phrase where no two-legged thing of this name exists — 
strengthens the white constitution for the heat and bur- 
den of the day. The contrary is the opinion of the 
wise of Freetown : they declare sunrise to be dangerous 
as sunset, that a morning mist is miasmatic as evening 
clew, and that those who want fever, have only to expose 
themselves at a time when the stomach is not strong. 
I believe them. Even in England no man of sense — ¦ 
old Indians not alluded to — rises, except in midsummer, 
before the world is brushed and broomed, aired and 
sunned. Early from bed is enjoyment in the dry and 
healthy regions of Arabia, it is not wholly unadvisable 
in sub-humid Egypt, and it becomes an abomination in 
the bleak and sombre North, as well as in the rank and 
fetid bush of Western Africa. 

"VYe rose betimes that day, because we expected a 
treat; our gallant captain had been subpoenaed as a 
witness in a police case between Messrs. Elliot and 
Johnson, the rival black pilots, wdio had joined issue 
upon the subject of dues. After breakfasting and 
preparing ourselves for the climate of the Court House, 
we landed, but not at the Government wharf. As 
the surf ran high, and we had no wish to break our 
legs, we chose another debarcadour by the side of the 
commissairat, where a rude little breakwater protects 



254 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

from positive risk. We walked for a mile or two to 
St. George's Pool, another pleasant bathing-place under 
the hills. A tope of bamboos surrounds the little " eye " 
of water, and a neighbouring cottage supplies mats, and 
lights for the subsequent cigar. Entering the " palace 
of Justice" at 10 a.m., the specified hour, we found it 
wholly untenanted. The beak would not, we were 
informed by a surly clerk coloured cafe au lait, put in 
an appearance for another hour. \Ye strolled about, 
and thus lost what habitues of Marylebone call a "nice 
case/' A Mandenga, accused of insulting a girl, was 
placed in the dock, duly convicted, and summarily fined 
40.?., or condemned in default to fourteen days' prison, 
by the police magistrate, a captain in the " 2nd West," 
who, " standing no nonsense," gives general satisfaction 
to the Europeans of S'a Leone. He fines them os., 
whereas not a few of his predecessors made the propor- 
tion 5/. to a white, Is. to a black man; and he is called 
"Captain Ten Pounds," because in the case of negro 
misdemeanor he prefers that sum to the "fiver." 
Several of the culprit's fellow-tribesmen were standing 
at the court-door. It was impossible not to be struck 
by the superiority of their deportment and appearance. 
Their loose and ample robes, even when of poor stuff, 
gave them breadth as well as height, and the pictur- 
esque folds contrasted wonderfully well with the grimy 
slops of the poorer Christian, and the caricatured imitation 
of our dress — itself a caricature — affected, at much loss 
of comfort and aspect, by "Gentlemen," the richer 
negro classes. There is a manliness and honesty in 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEOXE. 255 

the Mandenga's look, wholly wanting amongst the 
"liberated." The dignity of El Islam everywhere dis- 
plays itself; it is the majesty of the monotheist who ig- 
nores the degrading doctrines of original sin, the sublime 
indifference to life which Kazi wa Kadar — we must 
meagrely translate it fatalism — confers upon the votaries 
of " The Faith/' As regards education, I believe the 
Mandengas to be, despite the want of governmental 
instruction, as well advanced in the three Rvs. as any 
other tribe in Freetown. I found them able to recite 
their prayers, to repeat the shorter chapters in the 
Kalam Ullah, and to read the religious sentences which 
I wrote for them. In the space below the gate stood a 
Fakih — our learned travellers in, and writers on, Western 
Africa call him " fetish man " — a venerable elder with 
almost Arab features, tall fez, loose white burnous, 
and shalwars gathered in at the ankle, like those of the 
Bombay " Bohra." I could not resist the temptation of 
an as 7 salamu alaykum, and enjoyed the widening of 
eye and nostril with which he made the de rigueur reply 
to so auspicious a salutation proceeding from a source 
apparently so unseemly. 

There are who may consider these remarks pre- 
judiced, and attribute to mere antipathy my small 
appreciation of the Christianised African, and my claims 
for the Moslem of a palpable superiority over the 
missionary converts and the emancipated populace of 
S'a Leone. They may, however, rest assured, that 
not only I, but every one with me, — from those who saw 
Africa and a Moslem for the first time, to the veteran 



256 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Meccan pilgrim, one and all, — made the same remark. 
The fact is u Azliar mm el Shams." 

The police court at S'a Leone is managed much like 
that of Westminster. The beak sits upon a tall desk, the 
clerk at a lower one before him. In the right corner is a 
dock, the usual loose box. The large whitewashed room 
is bisected by a railing. The rough and ragged are in 
the outer half; their betters, who have boots or bottines 
and whole breeches, occupy a bench in the interior, 
where also the " distinguished visitor " is, or rather may 
be, accommodated with a chair. The other officials are 
constables, men of all tints, from cafe noir to cafe au 
lait, and habited in police uniform, a blue coat with red 
facings and metal buttons. The witnesses are allowed 
to hear and to converse with one another, a contrivance 
which must considerably facilitate matters to them. 

The knotty question was, did or did not Mr. Elliot, 
the plaintiff, first put off from the shore, first make for 
the mail steamer, and consequently has he or has he not 
first claim to pilotage ? I had no doubt of the legality of 
his pretensions, nor, if there be any truth in " Saunders' 
Physiognomie," had Mr. Johnson. The plaintiff, ex- 
amined his witnesses like a heaven-born lawyer — if such 
epithet can be applied to the " devil's own" — and cross- 
questioned them with an expertness engendered evidently 
by hard practice. He puckered up his vicious forehead, 
rubbed for ideas his beardless chin, and appeared to revel 
in the usual trickery and chicanery of a negro court. The 
witnesses stood for examination upon the steps leading 
to the magistrate's desk, took the Bible in hand, and 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 257 

parrot-like repeated the usual form of imprecation, shirk- 
ing, if possible, the kissing process. When will civi- 
lised nations abolish this fetish-like process of swearing, 
and substitute for it an affirmation with an equal penalty 
if violated ? What want of sense it shows if judge and 
jury are compelled to elicit truth by a mere supersti- 
tion. What power it places in the hands of an 
unscrupulous man who knows that Jove both laughs at 
lovers' broken vows, and is slow to punish the perjury 
of witnesses, — even of one who holds, as many pious 
souls do, to the doctrine of mental reservation.. After 
the swearing ensued a bout of forswearing that would 
make any one with the slightest respect for the sacred 
volume shudder. The object of each witness was so to 
stand that he could catch the eye of his "daddy" or boss ; 
the cross-questioner then took him by the shoulders and 
forced him to front the other way. When the witness 
had the weakness to balk at his perjuries, the plaintiff 
raised his index toward the ceiling, declaring that " dis 
he be God-palaver/' Thus adjured, the witness took his 
leaps like a man. The police magistrate made notes of 
the long tissue of shameless falsehoods with exemplary 
patience, a scrupulousness which reminded the consul of 
that pious Madras major on the Neilgherry hills, who, in 
years gone by, caused a certain Portuguese " buttrel " 
to suborn a prodigious amount of false witness. And 
pleasant to relate, whilst those of elder generation were 
thus enjoying the excitement of perjury, the junior on the 
other side of the building, separated by the thinness 
of party-walls, was refreshing itself with psalms and 



258 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

spiritual songs. This nuisance cannot be abated. The 
police magistrate may object that the vile symphony 
gives him the megrims, distracts his attention from his 
duties. The only consequence is, that he will be po- 
litely invited by the director of the school to "make 
tracks." I must mention the conclusion of the case. 
Mr. Elliot, who was non-suited, sprung up, and blatantly 
declaring his resolution to appeal, ran off to some lawyer 
for the purpose of laying a caveat against the money 
being paid to Mr. Johnson. All was fearfully technical. 
"When wearv of the monotonous course of lvinsr, we 
thought it as well to hear the psalmody. Ascending 
the staircase in the gable opposite the court-house, we 
passed down the hall, and saw through the open door 
the young idea at its mental drill in the hands of a peda- 
gogue, apparently one of the avat/xoo-apKa, who, ghastly 
white, with Paganini hair, sat at the head of the room, 
the ruling spirit of this unruly rout. Down the long 
length, whose whitewashed walls were garnished with 
inscriptions, moral, legal, and religious, all sublime as 
far as size went, stood parallel rows of negrillons, in the 
vast costumal variety of a ragged-school. They were 
bolt upright, square to the fore, in the position of 
" 'tention," their naked toes turned out to an angle of 
60°, little fingers close to the seams of their breeches — 
when they had any — heads up and eyes front. The body 
and features generally were motionless, as if cut in 
ebony; nothing moved but the saucer-like white eyes 
and the ivory-lined mouths, from whose ample aperture 
issued a prodigious volume of sound. JNiative assistants 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 259 

in black faces and yellowish - white chokers, carrying 
music scores, and armed with what is commonly called 
a cane, sloped along the rows, standing occasionally to 
frown down some delinquent whose body was not per- 
fectly motionless, and whose mind was not wholly fixed 
upon the development of sacred Time and Tune. I have 
no doubt that they sung 

11 The sun, the moon, and all the stars," &c. 

precisely in the same spirit as if they had been singing 

" Peter Hill ! poor soul ! 
Flog him wife, oh no ! oh no ! " 

Or that equally imposing Jamaican hymn 

"God 'um lub 'um nigger well, 
God 'um twig 'um by 'um smell ; 
When 'um nigger to 'um cry, 
God 'um gib 'um punkin pie-ie-ie." 

"Which shares the honours of negro popularity with 

" open the door, Maggie Dudah (three times). 

Beauty, I want to come in ! " 

It is a pity that time and work are thus wasted. The 
negro child, like the East Indian, is much " sharper " 
than the European — at six years of age he will become 
a good writer j in fact, he promises more than he can 
perform. At the age of puberty this precocity — for 
certain reasons — disappears, and the 'cute lad becomes a 
dummer jiinger. Of course it is a mistake to overstrain 
his faculties at school, to make him learn aught that 
is useless, to teach him algebra, as it were, before arith- 

s 2 



260 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

metic. Mrs. M. thus describes her small girl-servant 
from one of these schools : — " She looks about nine years 
old, and, as far as reading goes, she knows nothing 
more than her alphabet, can yet repeat the Prayer-book 
catechism by rote, and one or two hymns, utterly 
ignorant all the while of the import of a single word." 
Even in Europe education exercises the judgment too 
little, the memory too much; consequently, there are 
more learned men than wise men. This system is on the 
change, and the Gymnasium is gradually taking the 
place of the Athenaeum j the corpus samim being the first 
requisite for the mens sa?ia. Amongst missionaries 
the English language seems to be held a second revela- 
tion. Instead of two to three hours of reading, writing, 
and arithmetic, and six of the work -yard or shop, the 
boys are kept nine hours in school, and no inconsider- 
able part of the time is devoted to learning verse by 
heart, and to practise a vocalisation which it is hard to 
hear without pain. 

Thus concluded my experiences at S'a Leone. 
Before going on board, however, I have something to 
say about the present state of the colony, and that my 
remarks may be intelligible it will be necessary to look 
back into the past. 

Eifteen years after Lord Mansfield had established 
the sublime but unphysiological principle that a slave 
cannot live on English ground, our people turned 
towards Western Africa, sorrowing for their newly- 
found sin. The first English attempt at colonising 
her deserted slave preserves was in 1787, during the 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 261 

days of the African Company, when certain benevolent 
individuals, headed by Messrs. Smeathman and Granville 
Sharpe, originated a scheme for restoring several hundreds 
of destitute runaways to their native land. The rocky 
peninsula of S'a Leone, from the Eokel to the Ketu 
river, twenty square miles, was at once purchased from 
the Timni chief, Naimbamma, u king " of the country, 
and the emigrants were forwarded in the " Nautilus " to 
their destination, which they reached in May. Many 
died of disease, some drank themselves to death, others 
ran away, and but few of the 400 remained when the 
second batch of settlers came upon the stage. 

In 1790, three years after the first attempt, the colony 
of S'a Leone was re-established under the company of 
that name. The negroes who had remained loyal to 
England during the American Kevolution, had fled to 
and settled in Nova Scotia. Finding that bleak land 
wholly unsuitable, they sent a delegate to England pro- 
posing themselves as candidates for the new West 
African settlement. The directors of the S'a Leone 
Company applied to, and obtained from Government a 
free passage for the Nova Scotians, and embarked them 
at once. A hundred Europeans and 1136 negro 
settlers, led by Mr. Clarkson, landed upon the Lion's 
Range, after losing on the passage sixty of their num- 
ber, in March, 1792. 

Accustomed from their youth to rice and maize, to 
bread and meat, the new-comers sickened on cassava 
and ground-nuts. They went out without frame-houses, 
and the rains set in early — about the middle of May — 



262 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

before they found shelter. It was the history of the 
Eulama expedition once more. The whites were at- 
tacked with climate-fever, which did not respect the 
doctors, and the settlers, after many quarrels and great 
insubordination, saw 800 of their little band carried to 
the grave. Then a famine broke out; a ship from 
England, freighted with provisions, stores, and frame- 
houses was driven back by a storm, and. did not arrive 
till nearly the end of the rains. Forty-five acres had 
been promised to each settler — viz., twenty to the hus- 
band, ten to the wife, and five to each child. It was 
found necessary to reduce the forty-five to four, and the 
denseness of the bush rendered those four unmanageable. 
Disgusted with Granville, the first negro settlement, 
whose site is now, as I have said, a grassy plain, they 
persuaded King Tom, chief of the country, by presents 
from the company, to allow them the use of his land and 
water-springs, and presently they built the fort and the 
present Freetown. 

But war had broken out between France and England, 
causing the frequent detention of vessels, and a store- 
ship in the harbour happening to take fire, a worse mis- 
fortune awaited them. On a Sunday morning in April, 
1794, as the unfortunates were looking out for the 
company's ship "Harpy," a French squadron sailed into 
the roadstead, drove the negroes into the bush, and 
landing in force, pillaged " the church and the apothe- 
cary's shop," and burnt the boats and town. The enemy 
then laid waste Granville, sailed up to Bunce's Island, 
and finally captured two vessels, besides the expected 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 263 

<c Harpy." Having thus left their mark, they disappeared 
after granting, at the governor's urgent request, two or 
three weeks' provisions for the whites. Famine followed, 
with sickness in its train, and the slave-dealers in the 
neighbourhood added all they could to the sufferings of 
the settlement. This is the independent history of the 
Nova Scotian settlers, as they are still called by their 
descendants now living at S'a Leone. 

In 1800 and 1801 the settlers, roused by a small 
ground-rent imposed by the company upon their farms, 
rose in rebellion. The movement was put down by 550 
Maroons, — les negres Marrons, — principally descend- 
ants of Coromanti negroes, w r ho were sent from Jamaica 
to S'a Leone. Hence arose the ill-feeling which in the 
earlier part of this century prevented the two rival sec- 
tions even from intermarrying. Many of the disaffected 
settlers left the colony ; some fled to the wild and the 
•wild ones of the interior, and some few remained loyal. 
Rumours of invasion by the natives began to prevail. 
The * governor was unwilling to believe that King Tom 
should thus sacrifice his own interests, until one morning, 
when forty war-canoes, carrying armed Timnis, were 
descried paddling towards the point. Nova Scotians 
and Jamaicans fled to the fort, and next morning the 
Timni drum sounded the attack. The governor, who 
attempted to parley, was wounded; but the settlers and 
colonists, who, well armed, were fighting for existence, 
beat off the assailants, and the Maroons of Granville 
Town completed the rout. After this warning a wall, 
with three gates, which were closed from 7 p.m. to 



264 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

7 a.m., and strong watch-towers, were built round 
Freetown. 

Notwithstanding all precautions, another "Timni 
rising " took place in 1803. The assailants paddled 
down from Porto Logo, landed at Kissy in large 
numbers, and assaulted Freetown, headed by a "Gri 
gri," or witch-woman, dancing, jumping, and drumming. 
Dividing into three storming parties, they attacked the 
gates with courage ; but at last they were beaten back 
without having killed one man. The dead savages 
were so numerous, that the governor, fearing pestilence, 
ordered them to be cast into the sea. 

After these troubles the colony remained at peace for 
some years, under the auspices of the S'a Leone 
Company. In 1807, the year that witnessed the aboli- 
tion of the slave trade, possession was transferred to the 
British Government. Then commenced the system of 
installing at S'a Leone the Liberated Africans cap- 
tured by British cruisers. In 1819, when a West 
Indian regiment was disbanded at Jamaica, 1222 
soldiers and their families were added to the population. 
But this measure, making the place a black Botany Bay, 
soon ruined the chances and the hopes of the colony. 
Had it been carried out with due precautions, it 
would have worked abundant good by supplying hands. 
As it is, it has produced nothing but evil. I will 
attempt to explain why. 

The black population of Freetown is assumed at 
17,000. Of these there are still descendants of the 
older races: firstly, the Nova Scotians, or settlers,- 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEOXE. 2G5 

secondly, Maroons, Sherbro Bulloms, the latter speaking 
Bullom, and mostly Methodists of the Lady Hunting- 
donian sub-sect, and Jamaicans, or colonists; thirdly, 
come the "'Cmits," emancipated, or liberated African 
slave-criminals. The old feud has now waxed faint, but 
it has by no means given place to combination between 
the two former races.* Thus both have fallen far 
behind the "'Cruits," who, naturally more energetic, 
have usually been petted and patronised by the Colonial 
Government. These barbarians, many of whom I have 
said are atrocious criminals, have been made English- 
men by wholesale, with eligibility to hold any manner 
of office, and all the other precious rights of English- 
men. Instead of being apprenticedf or bound to labour, 
as in similar cases a white man would certainly have 
been, they are allowed to loaf through a life equally 
harmful to themselves and others. 

I need hardly quote the copybook to prove that 
idleness is the worst of all evils. 

There is hardly a peasant in the place. "With good 
management the colony might have become a flourishing 
portion of the empire, extending deep into Africa, and 
opening up to our commerce lands teeming with varied 

* Mrs. M reports this very improper speech on the part of an 

elderly "settler woman." "Well ! it is only my wonder that we 
settlers do not rise up in one body, and kill and slay, hill and slay ! 
Dem Spanish and Portuguese sailors are quite right in making slaves ; 
I would do de same myself, suppose I were in dere place ! " " He is 
only a Liberated," is a favourite sneer against the new-comers. 

+ There have of course been governors — I will not mention names — 
who have attempted to enforce the regulations touching apprenticeship, 
but death, recal or disgust has always shortened their term of rule. 



2QQ WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

wealth. Now it is the mere ruin of an emporium, and 
the people, born and bred to do nothing, of course can- 
not prevail upon themselves to work. But agriculture 
is always despised by the "improved African," and he 
will not labour at it uncompelled. He is good only at 
destruction — the excellent coffee and the tallow-nuts 
have been cleared away for fuel. Indigo and cotton, 
coffee and arrowroot, squills and jalap, oil- palms and 
cocoas,** ginger and ground-nuts, are to be grown; but 
the people are satisfied with Indian corn and vegetables, 
especially the cassava, which to Africa is a curse as 
great as the potato, according to Cobbett, has been to 
Ireland. Petty peddling is the " civilised African's " 
forte. He willingly condemns himself to pass life be- 
tween his wretched little shop and the chapel of Jehovah 
Shallum; to do nothing on week-days, but scrupulously 
to rest during the Sabbath. t His beau-ideal of life is 
to lie in the piazza, removing what the Rev. Mr. "Wolff 
was requested to remove, to chat, grin, guffaw, and 
intone hymns, snuff, chew, and smoke, and at times drink 
" kerring-kerry," a rum which costs one shilling per 
bottle. Such is the life of ignoble idleness to which we 
condemn these sable tickets-of-leave by not rendering 
industry compulsory. 

The Christian tenderness of the British Government, 
again, has tended to demoralise them. In the Bights 

* At S'a Leone there is a "freit," that if a white man plants a 
cocoa-nut tree, he dies shortly afterwards. 

t All missionaries praise the African for his strict observance of the 
Sabbath. He would have 365 Sabbaths in the year if possible, and 
he would as scrupulously observe them all. 



THREE DATS AT SIERRA LEONE. 267 

of Benin and Biafra, where the chief walks about with 
fetishman and executioner, there is still some manli- 
ness amongst men, some honour amongst women — the 
outward and visible form, at least, if not the " inward 
spiritual grace." There the offending wife fears " saucy 
water" and decapitation; here she leaves the hus- 
band — the latter more rarely abandons the better half — 
with impunity. The women have become vicious as 
those of Egypt, the basest of kingdoms — worse than the 
men, bad as they are. What the state of morality at 
Sa' Leone is they who are connected with the hospitals 
best know. Theft is carried to such an extent that 
no improvement is possible at Freetown, which, as re- 
gards property, is the most communistic of communities. 
One instance — a medical officer lately brought from Tene- 
rife some superior poultry for breeding purposes. The 
birds were carefully watched, but though put under lock 
and key, they were heard, and were forthwith all stolen.* 
The robbers are expert to a degree ; they work at night, 
nude, and well-greased; and like the Komanche, they 
choose the hour when the tornado is most violent and 
the footfall cannot be heard. The men fight by butting 
with the head, biting, and squeezing. The women have 
a truly horrible way of putting the obnoxious out of the 
world. Ask an Aku if an Ibo is capable of poisoning you, 
he will emphatically say "Yes." Make the same demand 
of an Ibo touching an Aku, and he will not reply "No." 

* It is the fashion to attribute in slave communities every evil, 
robbery included, to slavery. S'a Leone is a notable instance that want 
of work is a far more efficient cause than servitude. 



268 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Nor lias the influence of S'a Leone upon the West 
African coast been in any way for good. All know that 
this colony, intended for a "model of policy/' and 
founded with the main object of promoting the progress 
of the country generally, has been perhaps the greatest 
obstacle to improvement. She would retain to herself 
every advantage, and allow none to others. She be- 
came an incubus in 1820, when the African Company 
was abolished, and when all British possessions from 
20° north to 20° south latitude were made her depen-, 
dencies. Her ill-will was scotched in 1844, when the 
Gold Coast, despite all her struggles, became inde- 
pendent. And her evil influence will cease when 
Admiralty Courts shall be established in the Bights, 
and when Africans recaptured shall be carried wherever 
they are most wanted. 

"With respect to the relative position of Japhet and 
Ham — perhaps I had better say Ham and Japhet — at 
S'a Leone, I may remark that English ultra-philan- 
thropy has granted at times almost all the wishes of the 
Ethiopian melodist — 

11 I wish de legislatur would set dis darkie free, 
Oh what a happy place den de darkie world would be ! 
We'd have a darkie parliament, 
An' darkie code of law, 
An darkie judges on de bench, 
Darkie barristers and aw' ! " 

I own that Darkie must be defended, and well 
defended, too, from the injustice and cruelty of the 
class whom he calls " poor white trash." But protection 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 269 

should be within the limits of reason. If the white 
man is not to be protected against the black man, why 
should the Jamaica negro be protected against the 
coolie ? Because he requires it ? I think not. Though 
physically and mentally weaker than his rival, he can 
hold quite enough of his own, — as S'a Leone proves — 
by combination, which enables cattle to resist lion?. 
Albus is naturally aggressive ; if not, he would not now 
be dwelling in the tents of Shem and the huts of Ham. 
He feels towards Contrarius Albo as the game cock 
regards the dunghill cock.* Displays of this sentiment 
on the part of the whites must of course be repressed. 
Do so freely, but not unfairly. England, however, is still 
in the throes of her first repentance. Like a veteran 
devotee, she is atoning for the coquetries of her hot 
youth. But a few years ago she contracted to supply 
the Spanish colonies for thirty years with 4800 slaves 
per annum, and she waged wars and destroyed cities for 
a traffic which Cardinal Cibo, at the end of the seven- 
teenth century, on the part of the Sacred College, to the 

* Of late it has become the fashion for the missionary and the lec- 
turer to deny, in the presence of Exeter Hall, the African's recognition 
of the European's superiority. " The white man," writes Mr. Robert 
Campbell, a mulatto, "who supposes himself respected in Africa be- 
cause he is white, is grievously mistaken." I distinctly assert the 
reverse, and every one who has studied the natural history of man, 
must have the same opinion. The same egregious nonsense was once 
propounded before the Ethnological Society — where with some eth- 
nology there is no anthropology — by another "African." And yet 
the propounder, the late Mr. Consular Agent Hansen, whose death 
by the bye was an honour, and the only honour, to his life, had 
shaved his wool, and at the time was wearing a wig of coal-black hair 
like a Cherokee's. Is imitation no sign of deference \ 



270 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Kongoese missionaries denounced as " a pernicious and 
abominable abuse." Tor this, and for the 2,130,000 
negroes imported into the West Indian estates between 
a.d. 1080 and a.d. 1786, Britannia jet mourns, and 
Rachel-like, will not be comforted, because those niggers 
are not. What the inevitable reaction shall be, quien, 
? 



I do not for a moment regret our philanthropy, 
even with its terrible waste of life and gold. But Eng- 
land can do her duty to Africa and to the world without 
cant and without humbug.* She can contend with a 
world in arms, if necessary, against the injurious traffic, 
but she might abstain from violently denouncing all who 
do not share her opinions upon the subject. Anti- 
slavery men have hitherto acted rather from sentiment 
than from reason ; and Mr. Buckle — alas ! that we should 
hear from him no more — may be right in determining 
that morality must not rule but be ruled by intellect. 
Let us open our eyes to the truth, and eschewing "zeal 
without knowledge," secure to ourselves the highest 

* Such cant I hold to he in their mouths who talk of the " sin and 
crime" of slavery. As the author of " Six Years in the West Indies," 
(a brave hook, considering the date of its publication, 1825,) truly 
says, that the spirit of Christianity tends to abolish servitude is clear, 
that it admits of servitude is even still clearer. The authorised version 
of the Bible, like the Constitution of the United States, very prudently 
shirks the word "slave," and translates by " servants" the 8ov\oi or 
bondsmen, whom St. Paul enjoins to be subject to their Kvptoi or masters, 
and elsewhere SoOAos, a chattel, is opposed to "ehevOepos, a freeman. 
How astonished St. Athanasius and St. Augustine would have been, 
had the idea of an "underground railway" been presented to them ! 
What fulminations they would have showered upon the inventor of the 
idea ! 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 271 

merit — perseverance in a good cause when thoroughly 
disenchanted with it. We have one point in our favour. 
The dies air a between 1810-1820, when a man coidd 
not speak or write what he thought upon the subject of 
slavery, is drawing to a close. Increased tolerance now 
permits us to express our opinions, which, if in error, 
will wither like the grass in an African day ; if right, 
will derive fresh increase from time. 

There are several classes interested in pitting black 
man against white man, and in winning the day for 
him, coram publico. An unscrupulous missionary — 
it is the general policy of the English propagandist to 
take violent parts in foreign politics * — will for his own 
ends preach resistance to time-honoured customs and 
privileges which the negro himself has conceded. An 
unworthy lawyer will urge a law-suit, with a view to 
filling his pockets ; a dishonourable judge or police- 
magistrate will make a name for philanthropy at the ex- 
pense of equity and honour ; a weak-minded man will fear 
the official complaints, the false-memorialisings which 
attend an unpopular decision, and the tomahawking that 
awaits him from the little army of negrophiles at home. 
But the worst class of all is the mulatto — under which 
I include quadroon and octaroon. He is everywhere, like 
wealth, irritamenta malorum. The "bar-sinister," and 

* And not only the missionary, but also the sex which — I am told — 
has a mission. I was at Florence in 1850, when our fair countrywomen 
added not a little to its troubles by dividing into two factions, the 
Italian and the Austrian. Some wore national colours, others went 
so far as to refuse waltzes proposed to them by partisans of the hostile 
nation. 



272 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the uneasy idea that he is despised, naturally fill him 
with ineffable bile and bitterness. Inferior in point of 
morale to Europeans, as far as regards physique to 
Africans, he seeks strength in making the families of his 
progenitors fall out. Many such men visiting England 
are received by virtue of their woolly hair and yellow 
skin into a class that would reject a fellow-countryman 
of similar, nay, of far higher, position; and there are 
amongst them infamous characters, who are not found 
out till too late. London is fast learning to distinguish be- 
tween the Asiatic Mir and the Munshi. The real African, 
however — so enduring are the sentimentalisms of "Wil- 
berforce* and Buxton — is still to be understood.f 

It is hardly fair to pull down one system without 
having another ready in its stead. I therefore venture 
to suggest certain steps toward regenerating — diffidently, 
though, on account of the amount of change to be made 

* In the West Indies ' ' Willyforce nigger" is a vile term of abuse 
addressed to a Kongo or Guinean recaptive, by tbe liberated of an 
older date. What a nse of an honoured name ! 

+ Can I give a better proof of my assertion than the following extract 
from the English press : — 

"There was a grand field-day in the fashionable world of Brighton 
on Thursday week. A coloured lady — Miss Ina Sarah Forbes Bonetta 
— of royal descent, and who had had the good fortune to be adopted by 
an English Captain of the Navy, and to be educated at the expense of 
her Majesty, was led to the altar by a coloured gentleman, Mr. James 
Davis, a Sierra Leone merchant. She was escorted by a bevy of dark 
beauties, and he was honoured by the attendance of coloured grooms. 
They were married by the Bishop of Sierra Leone, assisted by an 
African clergyman." 

Miss I. S. Forbes Bonetta, the African princess, was a little slave girl, 
"dashed" by the late king Gezo of Dahomey to the late Lieut. Forbes, 
R.N., of H.M.S. "Bonetta," hence the names. A similar present 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEOXE. 273 

in — our unhappy colony, which for years has been 
steadily declining. 

As an author of the last century says : " Ideas of 
perfect liberty have too soon been given to these people, 
considering their utter ignorance. If one of them were 
asked why he does not repair his house, clear his farm, 
mend his fence, or put on better clothes, he replies that 
' King no giv him work dis time/ and that he can do 
no more than 'burn bush and plant little cassader for 
yam/ " I doubt if this ingrained idleness could now be 
extirpated from the u colony-born " or elder generation ; 
but it might be obviated in the " Kingyard men," the 
fresh importations of recaptives, and in the Creoles, as 
children of liberated Africans are called here. They should 
be apprenticed for seven years, with superintendents 
to see that they clear the soil, plant and build; other- 
wise the apprenticeship would be merely nominal. For 
the encouragement of agriculture, I would take a heavy 
tax from small shopkeepers and hucksters, who, by virtue 
of sitting upon a shady board, before a few yards of calico 
and strings of beads, call themselves merchants. Another 
very heavy tax — at least 100^. per annum— upon all 
grog-shop licences, very few of which should be issued 
in the colony. Police magistrates are perfectly capable 

was made to Mr. Consul Beecroft ; that "princess," however, died at 
Fernando Po, and the malkeureuse never commanded a grand field-day 
in the fashionable world of Brighton. Lieut. Forbes took his protegee 
to England, published a portrait of the little negro girl in the first 
volume of his "Dahomey and the Dahomians," and nearly lost his 
commission for presenting her asa " princess." Of Mr. Davis I know 
little beyond having narrowly missed seeing him in irons at Lagos. 

VOL. I. T 



274 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

of settling disputes amongst these people, and of 
dealing out punishment to the offenders; moreover, 
in all cases the fines should go to the Crown, not to 
the complainant ; in civil cases, however, there might 
be an appeal home, for the benefit of the litigious. This 
measure would wipe off at one sweep inducement to 
engage in actions which the presence of a judicial 
establishment suggests, and which causes such heart- 
burning between Europeans and Africans. I would not 
allow a black jury to " sit upon " a white man, or vice 
versa; and, in the exception of a really deserving mu- 
latto, I would rather see him appointed Lord-Lieute- 
nant or Secretary of Ireland than acting Governor or 
Secretary at S'a Leone.* 

I am convinced that something of the kind will be 
done, when the real state of affairs in this unfortunate 
colony is ventilated in England. There are men who 
are always ready to let bad alone, and to hold that 

""What has answer d so long may answer still;'* 

but the extension of steam navigation, and the increased 
number of travellers and visitors, will not allow progress 
for want of a little energy, even at S'a Leone, to be 
arrested. 

* The following extract from the "Free-press," S'a Leone, Aug. 
15, 1862, may be quoted as a proof that all Africans do not 
consider themsslves fit for English citizenship. "Not long ago our 
contemporary, s African Weekly Times,' remarked that the ' African 
race are not fit to exercise the privileges of citizenship,' the very fact 
of which assertion unfolds to us the spleen by which the editor is 
actuated." And it is to be observed that the contemporary alluded to 
is the most respectable member of the "West African press. 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 275 

Concerning the climate of S'a Leone there is a diver- 
sity of opinion. Let me quote Dr. Madden's report. Two 
witnesses are being examined; and the dialogue pro- 
ceeds thus : — 

" Q. Do you think the health of the settlement has 
improved of late years ? 

" Dr. F. I think it has improved. 

"Dr. A. I do not conceive it has improved of late, 
particularly since 1837. 

" Q. Are the natives subject to many or few diseases? 

" Dr. F. Comparatively few. 

" Dr. A. Yes, to many. 

" Q. Are diseases of the lungs common ? 

" Dr. F. Not common. 

" Dr. A. Yery common." 

Captain Chamier remarks, "It is needless to say one 
word about the climate of the coast of Africa. We have 
been taught to regard it as the worst under the sun; 
and certainly I, for one, am not going to gainsay it" 
("Life of a Sailor"). 

Mr. Judge Rankin observed that the unhealthy repu- 
tation of S'a Leone was maintained by policy on the 
one hand and ignorance of the truth on the other ; and 
he contrasted the improved healthiness of the colony 
with the West India Islands ; but Mr. Judge died a 
few days after. So it is with Dr. Macpherson, of the 
African Colonial Corps. It appears ill-omened to praise 
the place ; and after seeing it, I no longer wonder at the 
"Medical Gazette " (April 14, 1838) affirming that "on 
statistical writer has yet tried to give the minutest frac- 

t 2 



276 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

tion representing the chance of (even) a surgeon's 
return from S'a Leone." And of late years the settle- 
ment has declined, and of course the climate has 
deteriorated. 

It is only just to own that during my three days in 
the Red Grave I had little to complain of negro inso- 
lence. I paid every one employed about double. All 
asked treble ; but the annoyance went no further. Still 
it was impossible to mistake the character of these 
spoiled children, their puerile inept ways, their ex- 
ceedingly bad language, their constant intoxication, and 
their disposition to quarrel on all occasions. A subse- 
quent comparison between Cape Palmas and S'a Leone 
gave me the exact ratio of difference between the civi- 
lised American negro and the semi — or, rather, semi- 
demi-reclaimed English protege. 

At 4 p.m., on the 13th of August, we left this un- 
fortunate mistaken colony. The last circumstance in it 
was the late arrival of a negro servant whom I had pro- 
mised to forward for his master, an officer at Loando. 
He had no ticket, and no permit, consequently, under 
pain of losing £250, our captain could not allow 
him to embark. This practice, now obselete in the 
East Indies, the object of which is to prevent the 
escape of debtors and of men flying from justice, is still 
enforced at S'a Leone. May its shadow never be less ! 
May it increase a thousand-fold, at least while S'a Leone 
remains a scourge to the coast. 

Bidding adieu to the green shores of the Red Grave, 
and giving the redoubted "Capenter" a wide berth, 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE, 277 

vre steered to the south-west, avoiding the shoals of St. 
Anne, which hern in the coast. During the night we passed 
Sherbro Island, where, according to general opinion, 
Hanno, the Carthaginian, concluded his periplus, and 
anticipated M. Du Chaillu, by carrying away the spoils of 
the gorilla. Nothing can be more precise than the 
estimate of days in this earliest of log-books. At the 
same time, nothing is less applicable to this part of the 
coast. If Sherbro be the terminal island, where is the 
Fiery Mountain, which is distinctly described as a 
volcano ? South of Fogo or Fuego, in the Cape Yerde 
Islands, there is no such feature,"* nor could there have 
been, even 3400 years ago, except the Camaroons. 
What, again, in this part of the coast, can be the " Horn 
of the South"? I quit the subject for the present, 
afterwards to return to it. 

The weather was rough and squally, the southerly 
wind still endured, and the aspect and temperature were 
those of St. George's Channel in the month of June. 
On Sunday the wind veered round to the north. Old 
Boreas changed his robe from green to blue, and the 
empyrean was clear as if we had been in an English 
August. Presently we passed Cape Mount, the last 
residence of the Franco-Italian slaver, Captain Canot, 
whose memoirs have been published at a shilling, by 
Messrs. Milner and Sowerby. The book wants but one 
thing : it was written not by the adventurer himself, 
but by some German " cooker-up." It is right well 

* Moreover, Hanno was coasting along the main land, from which. 
Fogo cannot be seen ; its distance from Cape Verde is about 300 miles. 



278 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

worth reading, upon the honest old principle, Audi 
alteram partem. Those who, like the greatest part of 
the untravelled public, look upon a slave-ship as a scene 
of horrors, and the skipper as the presiding demon of 
the Pandemonium, will be surprised to read M. Canot's 
conscientious endeavours to comfort and preserve his 
man warehouse. The details of a slave captain's hard 
day are most interesting, and they bear upon their front 
the stamp of truth. His figures show that his efforts 
were successful. Out of cargoes of 188 and 220 
shipped on board the "Arentatico" and the "For- 
tuna," a total of only six was lost, or one and a 
half per cent. : far less than the average of our 
emigrant vessels. Bosman observes, — it may astonish 
the reader, — that "the English slave-ships are always 
foul and stinking ; on the contrary, ours (the Dutch) 
are for the most part neat and clean.''' The Mount 
lies some ninety miles from Sherbro, and 170 from 
the extremity of St. Anne's shoals. It is a noble 
landmark, rising like a huge stud from the smooth 
front of the water before us. By way of contrast 
to the old slaver's home, Liberia, formerly the Grain 
Coast, was behind it upon our port bow. It claims 
for its limits the whole country from the Sherbro 
Biver, the southern boundary of Sherbro Island (12° 
35' west longitude) and the San Pedro River (6° 40' 
west longitude), a length of about 4500 miles from 
north to south, with an average breadth of sixty miles, 
and a jurisdiction extending to one league (three nauti- 
cal miles) off the shore at high- water mark. This,, it 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 279 

will be seen from the chart,* includes the sovereignty 
of the Gallinhas Biver, which the Liberians declare to 
have been purchased from King Hannah, with money 
contributed mainly by the late Mr. Gurney. The chart 
shows no less than twenty-six parallelograms extending 
at right angles from the shore, and stated to have been 
acquired by " conquest and purchase," between the 
years 1822 and 1857. The central are the most 
ancient, the southern and the northern are the newest, 
acquisitions. 

On the other hand, the natives, especially the Krumen, 
complain that, after permitting the foreigners to dwell 
amongst them, they have found themselves continually 
despoiled of their possessions ; that once the lords of the 
soil they have sunk into Liberian citizens. Every African 
traveller knows the meaning of land purchase in these 
regions. There are two ideas innate in the African 
mind, but apparently incomprehensible by the European. 
The first is the non-alienation of land. The negro never 
parts with his ground in perpetuity. He has always the 
reservation, in the case of a stranger, that the land and 
its improvements revert by right to him after the death 
or departure of the original settler, who thus becomes a 
mere tenant. Should the settler's heirs desire to remain 
in loco, he expects a fresh qualification, which he will 
attempt to raise as high as possible. Public opinion, 
however, will compel him to be satisfied with an equiva- 
lent of the a dash" paid ab initio. The second idea is 

* Republic of Liberia. Capt. Tidal and Lieut. Bedford, 1836—8, 
with additions from a MS. dated July 4, 1861. 



280 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

even more repugnant to the English mind. In Africa once 
a slave, always a slave. There is no such thing as abso- 
lute manumission ; the libertus, or freeman, himself would 
not claim it. The Cape Coast Artillery, for instance, 
is composed of Fantis redeemed from servitude. After 
completing their service they must enjoy their pensions 
under the fort guns, otherwise their owners would 
claim them and their property. The African phrase is 
" '.Pose man come up slave, he be slave all time/* 

The idea of Liberia dates from the days of President 
Jefferson, who proposed to deport free " contrabands " 
from the United States to some part of Africa. The 
Colonization Society, organized by Mr. Finlay, sent in 
1818 a deputation to Freetown, and several negroes 
were settled at Sherbro Island. Disliking the place, 
and dying in great numbers, they purchased land of 
King Peter, at Mesurado, and hoisted the American 
flag. This original " grant of land " — again a Euro- 
peanism ! — made by the king and native chiefs in April, 
1822, to the American Society for Colonizing the Free 
People of Colour of the United States (a private associ- 
ation, including Messrs. Clay and Webster, which began 
at Washington in 1816), extended, after a deadly failure 
at Sherbro, from a little north of Half Cape Mount, to 
a little north of Piccaniny Sesters (Sestos), about 300 
miles. Here 6000 liberated negroes were established 
amongst 80,000 natives. As by the laws of the then 
United States the Federal Government could not hold 
colonies beyond the sea ; the new settlement was placed 
under an agent, governor, or superintendent, and two 



THREE DAYS AT SIERRA LEONE. 281 

magistrates, appointed by the society. Presently Bassa 
Cove was added. In 1827 the colony was contented 
with gaining a constitution. In August, 1817, dis- 
solving connection with the Society, her home Govern- 
ment, she declared herself an independent Republic, 
and excluded whites from citizen life : the name of 
" Liberia " was suggested by the Rev. Mr. Gurley. In 
the northern third was built Monroe — so called from 
President Monroe — the capital, badly situated near the 
malarious mouth of the shallow and useless Mesurado 
River, probably the Montserrado.* The new Republic, 
Mrs. Stowe's most frouzy paradise, was placed under 
the united protection of England, Prance, and America, 
who assisted her with gifts of arms, schooners, and 
colonists' necessaries. "Now she has, after forty years, 
grown to nearly fifteen times her original size. But in 
these days even Eden would be compelled to " annex." 

About 4 p.m., we were off the Cape, River, and 
Town of Sinou, the land of the Krumen Their limits 
are insignificant, but their enterprise entitles them to 
honourable mention. 

* The Gula, well known as the " Gollah niggers" of the Southern 
States, inhabit the lands in the interior of this country. 



CHAPTER VI. 

SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF COCOA PALMS. 

"Cape de las Palmas, a fair high land ; but having on the eastern 
side some low places by the shore which look like red cliffs, with white 
streaks resembling highways, reach the length of a cable." 

Capt. John Lake, the first English visitor to this coast in 1554. 

16th Sept., 186—. 

I had heard of Cape Palmas, that it is a headland 
discovered by the Portuguese about 1450; that it is so 
called from the cocoa groves in its vicinity; that it 
became a territory of Liberia when that "young and 
flourishing republic/' as she loves to call herself, started 
up, like California, in Lucian's Minerva, in 1847 ; and 
that in days now historic, times of the slaving rage, 
ships usually made this point for rice and water, and 
bent to the south-east. I had also heard the dictum 
of an American skipper as regards Uncle Tom's Piefuge 
for the Destitute, namely, that in years to come the 
baboons would be putting off to trade with Liberians' 
skins. Such was the modicum of my knowledge before 
landing at Cape Palmas; and perhaps the reader may be 
in the same position which I then occupied. 

Early on the morning of the 26th August, after a 
run of 500 miles, we were expecting to see the Cape of 
Palms ; but, steaming easily along, we had been 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 283 

carried by the current past the sunken Athole Rock,* 
where, about eight months before, the " Roderick Dhu h 
had come to grief. It is a dangerous place, about one 
mile and a half from the shore, and surrounded by 
twelve fathoms of water ; the rock however can be 
distinctly seen. The merchant ship was surrouuded in 
a few minutes by a score of canoes, which quadrupled 
their number in a short time : when in force they look 
like Cornish wreckers, and have been known to 
murder the unresisting crews. Presently we found 
ourselves with head turned northwards, engaged in 
retrousse?- chemin. The Great Gulf Stream, which 
bifurcates about the Azores or "Western Islands, here 
trends to the south, with a considerable amount of 
easting. The land is low, and it is by no means easy to 
make Cape Palinas without feeling for it. The principal 
marks, as in the Nigerian Delta, are conspicuous clumps : 
umbrella trees, lone trees, two trees, stump trees — in 
fact, every variety of trees, including the old naval sur- 
veyor's " Piemarkable Tree with Three Crows upon it/' 
These signposts often suffer from lightning and other 
causes, and a ship finds herself ashore in consequence. 
The nomenclature of the settlements is as peculiar as 
the landmarks. TTe now enter the regions of Great 
and Little, Grand and Piccaniny, Whole and Half, 
e.g., Great Bassa, Little Bassa, Grand Sestos, Piccaniny 
Lahou, Whole Cavally and Half Cavally. Some of the 
names are palpable corruptions from the Prench ; for 

* So called from H.M.S. "Athole," which struck there on the 
16th Dec, 1830. 



284 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

instance, the great and little Bootou of our pilot-books. 
M. de Bouet-Willaumez distinctly traces them back to 
the old remembrances of France, in spite of the half- 
English half-Spanish dialect which has been found 
on the West Coast of Africa. He explains the word as 
"butteau" from " butte" the well-known old Norman, 
and still used in the great Western Prairies ; and this 
would render it significant and descriptive of the place. 
We have seen that, at the end of the twelfth century, 
when other European nations were asleep, the Nor- 
mans invaded and conquered a portion of the Canary 
Islands. In a future page I shall touch upon their 
claims to have discovered the Gold Coast. 

At 7 a.m. we saw the bars and breakers that garnish 
the mouth of the Cavaiia River, fourteen miles east of 
Cape Palmas. It is pronounced Cavally, and by very 
John Bull skippers, Cawally ; it is properly Cavalla, so 
called by the Portuguese, because within one horse 
distance of Palmas. The river, whose course is nearly 
direct north and south, extends unobstructed seventy- 
five miles into the interior,* but the bar is always trou- 
blesome and often dangerous. It has been proposed to 
lay down rails of hard wood from the Cape to the River, 
and thus to reduce the five hours'' march to two. Some 
few miles from the mouth lies the Grand Devil, the 
Delphi, Mecca, or Jerusalem of Kruland. The people 
describe it as a large rock, too extensive to walk easily 
round, with an aperture opening into an interior cavern. 

* In the Hydrographic Chart, the river Cavalla is made about 14 
miles long, decidedly an errur. 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 285 

The votary makes his offering of white beads, animals, 
leaf tobacco, and rum, which are placed in the cavern, 
and are miraculously removed. The mysterious " surfing" 
— something, as my informant Tom Bes'man, Kru head- 
man of the African steam ship " Blackland," called it — 
answers any questions in any language, even in English. 
It is no doubt some sturdy fellow, who laughs in his 
sleeve, like the priest sitting in the breast of the 
Sphinx — Africa's most appropriate emblem — or in 
the lap of Memnon. The Kru, however, are made 
to believe in the preternatural disappearance of the 
gifts. You might as well argue with an alchemist 
against transmutation, with a Hindu against metempsy- 
chosis, with a Erere Ignorantin against transubstantia- 
tion. A tree standing near the river is pointed out as 
the local Lot's Pillar ; some philosophic and Voltairian 
black was thus suddenly punished for his impious 
curiosity. There is no difficulty in visiting the place 
unprofessionally ; several masters of ships have, it is 
said, gone through the various ceremonies. The fetish- 
man — "demon doctor" the missionaries call him — 
would probably do his best to prevent any inquiry ; but, 
like all his tribe, he doubtless would not resist a douceur. 
At the same time prudence would be advisable. 

A more interesting place upon the Cavalla River, is 
Cavalla Town, a few yards from the stream whose bar 
breaks and foams before us. We can distinguish an 
islet of black rock whose name is derived from the river, 
a church embosomed in tall trees, and along the coast a 
beehive-like scatter of small villages. At Cavalla the 



286 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

Right Rev. John Payne, "Missionary Bishop, Protestant 
Episcopal Church, United States of America, at Palmas 
and parts adjacent," resides. He edits a newspaper, the 
"Cavalla Messenger, or Good News from a Ear 
Country," with that well-worn motto, "Ethiopia shall 
soon stretch out her hands unto God," * which has, I 
believe, been and ever shall be quoted by every man who 
ever has written or who ever shall write a missionary 
book into which the name of Africa enters. Published 
by the Protestant Episcopal Mission, it had reached, in 
September, 1861, No. 3 of vol. ix. ; and, considering its 
difficulties, it is very creditable to American energy. 

Passing Half Cavalla, a missionary station so called 
because lying half way to the river, we saw at a dis- 
tance the Cape of Palms : first a dotted line of tall 
cocoa trees, scattered and conspicuous ; afterwards a long 
spit of dark ground, apparently cut off by sand or water 
from the river. Presently black points in the water 
grew to Kru canoes. They are pointed at both ends, 
crescent-shaped, and so curved that both cusps are high 
out of water, which form acts in fact as weather-boards. 
Except those of Batanga, they are the crankest things 
on the coast ; a caique on the Bosphorus is like a ship's 
barge in comparison. At a little distance they are in- 
visible ; the paddler, who sits on his shins, is apparently 
treading water ; and when near, every undulation of the 

* Psalm lxviii. 31. As this was written about 1050 years B.C., and 
comparatively nothing has been done during 2912 years, the "soon" 
in question probably means that she may have to wait till a.d. 4700, 
or so. 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 287 

" marrnor" seems to bury them in its bosom. Dr. Yogel, 
the botanist, who on 17th December, 1841, died at Fer- 
nando Po, the day before he was to ascend the Peak, 
compares them to the Berlin "seelen verkanfer." I 
never sent an Englishman off in them but once, and he 
was nearly drowned. "Without practising balance it is 
impossible to sit them. They are composed of a single 
branch of cotton wood, poplar, or African teak, charred 
internally with fire, and then easily hollowed out with an 
adze ; there are half a dozen cross bars to prevent a col- 
lapse, and the woodwork is so massive that when water- 
logged they do not sink. The single paddler, an amphi- 
bious animal quite at home on the sea, sits in the centre 
or the stern, — it is curious that he has never dreamed 
of a canvas or mat cover, — baling occasionally, as is 
always necessary with a scoop, or by kicking the water 
out of the boat, screaming "Bateo! Bateo ! Gi'way, 
Gi'way ! " and making his little craft skim the waves 
round and round our ship in a style that surprised us. 
This visitation of canoes, unusual at this distance, was 
caused by their mistaking us for the leeward mail; and 
they were flocking to plunder a Valuable, as is their 
fashion, friends home returning from " down coast," 
where beads and cloth, arms and ammunition, grow. A 
little lower there are robbers, who delude the Kruboy 
into their canoes and strip him of all he has. There is 
something touching in the way in which they confide them- 
selves to an English ship. AVhen a sail draws in sight, 
they put out with songs, choruses — levant et carmina 
was— and loud screams of " Bagri ! bagri ! " and they 



288 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

race each other, — they never can work except with some 
excitement — till they reach her. Then they lie upon 
their paddles, and long and anxiously scrutinize her, to 
distinguish if she be a Frenchman or a Spaniard; when 
they ascertain her to be an Englishman, they are over 
her sides in a moment. Steaming past Pmsswurm,"* or 
Deadman's Island, so called because it was the common 
burial-ground, we remarked its tilted-up strata in the 
amorphous trap formation, and the many dangerous 
washes and diabolitos that outlie it. After passing the 
only ship in port, a Monrovian schooner, full of black and 
yellow jacktars, we went on easy, and anchored about 
half a mile off the town. The "Blackland" was at 
once boarded by Krumen, who swung themselves up by 
the chains, grinned at us with teeth like those of a garden 
rake, shook hands — who has taught this horrible prac- 
tice to the universal West African Coast ? — and proposed 
to take service. The toilette was in African style, sans 
gene, sometimes only a pocket handkerchief about the 
lumbar region. Their appearance struck me as gro- 
tesque. Conceive the head of a Socrates or a Silenus upon 
the body of the Antinous or Apollo Belvidere. A more 
magnificent development of muscle, such perfect sym- 
metry in the balance of grace and strength, my eyes had 
never yet looked upon. But the faces ! except when 
lighted up by smiles and good humour — expression to 
an African face is all in all — nothing could be more un- 
prepossessing. The flat nose, the high cheek-bones, 

* Mr. Russwurm, coloured, was founder of the " Liberian Herald" 
in 1837, and afterwards Governor of Maryland, Liberia. 



SIX HOUBS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 289 

the yellow eyes, the chalky- white teeth pointed like the 
shark's, the muzzle projecting as that of a dog-monkey, 
combine to form an unusual amount of ugliness. To 
this somewhat adds the tribe mark, a blue line of cuts 
half-an-inch broad, from the forehead-scalp to the nose- 
tip ; in some cases it extends over both lips to the chin ; 
— whence they are called Blue-noses, like our North 
American friends, not however because inactivity pre- 
cludes circulation, — whilst a broad arrow or wedge 
pointed to the fore, and also blue, occupies each temple, 
just above the zygomata. The marks are made with a 
knife, little cuts into which the oily smoke of a gum is 
rubbed. Their bodies are similarly ornamented with 
stars, European emblems, as anchors, &c, especially 
with broad double lines down the breast and other parts. 
But of this remarkable tribe more at the end of the 
chapter. 

The aspect of the little settlement at Palmas is not 
uupicturesque, and it suggests a pure and healthy 
climate, which is not far from being the case. It is 
a bold headland of red argillaceous earth, based upon 
a black micaceous granite, tufted with cocoas and 
tapestried with verdure everywhere beyond the breaking 
of the waves. A flagstaff, with cleats nailed on in- 
stead of ladder and rungs, bore above the steamer signal 
the arms of Liberia, stripes and a Lone Star, stolen 
from Texas and not paid for. It stands in front of the 
Mission-house, a large building with ample piazzas and 
shady verandahs. Behind this is the square tower form- 
ing the lighthouse — a poor affair, a stable lantern stuck 

VOL. i. v 



290 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

upon a pole. The ridge crest is thinly lined with tall 
houses of timber or stone, and they extend in scatters to 
near the water. The headland or promontory, 100 
feet high and half a mile long by a quarter broad, is 
apparently cut off by a low sand spit; the country behind 
is grandly wooded, and from an eminence the blue heads 
of little hills rise above the alluvial plain. The Cape is 
a kind of out-post, and the turning point from the 
Windward to the Leeward or eastern coast. The body 
of the settlement, yclept Harper, after a " remarkable 
negro, " — it contains about 1500 souls, — lies further 
east. On the other end of the cliff, where in charts Fort 
Hall occupies the ground, there is a single gun placed 
upon an elevated bulge. The little river of Cape Palmas 
discharges itself north of the headland. 

Availing ourselves of the captain's gig, the Consul and 
I went on shore, after crossing the mimic bar formed 
by the confluence of the river and the stream. The 
rollers were so small that they had hardly power to wet 
us j they succeeded, however, in occasionally capsizing a 
Kru canoe. The paddler, nothing afflicted by the acci- 
dent, puts her on her back again, bales her out, and 
reseats himself with a dexterity the result of a life's 
practice. At the landing-place we found sundry large 
stone buildings, Mr. Macgill's and Mr. Potter's stores, 
and, wonderful to relate, black carpenters at their 
benches and black coopers — I saw nothing of the kind 
at S'a Leone — hard at work, refitting old casks for new 
palm oil. Two native huts standing by, were of the most 
approved Central African style, circles of twenty to thirty 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 291 

feet in diameter, with peaky conical roofs, whose eaves 
extended almost to the ground, a single low door, in 
entering which chin must touch knee, leading to the one 
room inside, where raised floors of tamped clay supported 
in the centre the chimneyless fireplace — all this might 
have been on the Tanganika Lake.* 

The women were mostly in the "small countries," as 
plantations are called in "blackman's English," or 
gathering palm-nuts, which are exported in considerable 
quantities from this part of the coast. Amidst a crowd of 
men and boys, each carrying his little paddle and baling- 
scoop for fear of " 'tief man," we ascended a few rough 
steps cut in the steep red-clay bank, and found ourselves 
in a lumber tenement, at once post-office and custom- 
house, which looks much like a large hen-coop perched 
upon a ladder. The letters were now distributed with the 
usual hurry and excitement. The African Steamship Com- 
pany found it necessary to give up Goree, Monrovia, and 
Badagry, because they caused a mere waste of coal; so 
the correspondence of the capital — about 240 miles to 
the north-west or up the coast — is carried from Cape 
Palmas in the " Setli Grosvenor." The " Liberia" mail 
ship was described to me as a Yankee steamer, a house 

* I propose at some future time, if the subject falls not into worthier 
hands, to show by the similarity of houses and utensils, manners 
and customs, arts and arms, religious rites, &c, that at some early 
epoch, there must have been an intimate intercourse between Eastern 
and Western Africa, in fact, throughout all Africa south of the equator. 
We observe essential differences between Great Britain and Little 
Russia ; between the two shores of the Dark continent there is abso- 
lutely none. 

u 2 



292 WAXDEEIXGS IX WEST AFRICA. 

of sundry stories built upon a broad shallow flat. In 
October, 1860, the British Consulate was removed from 
Liberia in consequence of the bad treatment of a British 
subject, a sailor on board the " Quail/' a ship of war 
that had been presented by England to the young Ee- 
public. Mr. Roberts, ex-President, and acting as Her 
Majesty's Consul, gave medical attendance to the sick 
seaman, and sent in his account to the authorities, who 
thought proper to ignore it. Consequently this pauper 
settlement lost the expenditure of 500/. a year, and the 
Consulate will, on (lit, be transferred to Cape Palmas, 
where an English agent is really required to settle dis- 
putes between Krumen and their employers. The weak 
point of a knowing African, even in the Land of Ereedom, 
is that he is perpetually outwitting himself. 

After leaving the mails, we ascended the rest of the 
steps, and on the way met two American gentlemen — 
whites ; to them we related, not without an irrepressible 
chuckle, the story of Bull's Eun, — perhaps the most re- 
markable style of " taking ground to the rear" that history 
has ever had to chronicle. The account was received 
with a curious mixture of incredulity and consternation. 
"What ! the Xorth whipped ! "What would follow next ? 
Apres ca, le Deluge ! The war in the once L T nited 
States, however, is causing great injury to* the mis- 
sionary establishments, which are supported by voluntary 
contributions. These alms now go to arms and ammu- 
nition, so that the missionaries must suspend the 
building of churches and reduce the number of their 
beneficiaries, to say nothing of personal inconvenience 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 293 

and privations, with which, in these climates, they can ill 
afford to put up. 

We presently found ourselves at Marshall's Hotel, a 
lumber building on the cliff, commanding a pretty view. 
The inner rooms are furnished with tables, sofas, and 
easy chairs; the mats and rugs are neat and clean, and 
cocoas, white-washed after the fashion of Philadelphia 
and Baltimore, shade the front. There is an ordinary as 
in the United States — the table d'/iote is preferred to 
the " domestic circle," or solitary feeding. In fact all 
is America blackened. At Monrovia the Army and 
Navy Hotel, kept by a Jamaica woman, is said to 
be the best on the West African coast. The honour- 
able owner of Marshall's Hotel, a man of colour, who 
is agent of the African Steamship Company, and also 
one of the county senators, bade us kindly welcome, and 
offered his services in showing us about the settlement. 
Our Consul was anxious to engage a gig's crew and. two 
Krumen as personal servants. Although the destina- 
tion was Fernando Po, the verandah was soon crowded 
with aspirants from ten to thirty years old ; they 
behaved, however, decently ; they did not crowd upon 
us, and when told to go away, they went. At S'a 
Leone there would have been an action — at least a sum- 
mons. There was something natural and consistent in 
the appearance of these semi-savages, who, clothed in 
dirty coats and ragged pantaloons, would appear like 
the half civilized negro, simply disgusting* Their 

* "I can't tell you," said a lady missionary at Abeokuta tome, 
" what a pleasure it is for us to see our converts decently dressed like 



294 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

black skins, their pink loin-clothes, and their bead neck- 
laces, are their proper attire. And however scanty the dress, 
it rarely appears immodest amongst the uncivilized. 
Whatever little is -worn is manifestly intended for con- 
cealment. Au contraire, amongst the civilized, however 
much is worn, is too often intended to make half revela- 
tions. They lay in this quarter-naked state under 
the trees and squatted in circles, and at times a wild 
gusty song, in which all joined antiphonally, with an 
accompaniment of nature's castanettes — palms clapped 
upon thigh and calf — arose long and loud, transporting 
one mentally from the Cape of Palms to the Lake 
Beinons of Central Africa. "Whenever an old ne^ress, 
attached to the mission and dressed in broad-brimmed 
straw and calico gown, brushed by them rather rudely, 
they would exclaim, " Eh ! you no care ? you all same 
white man ?" suggesting that only the white man has a 
prescriptive right to kick them. The sole ridiculous 
figure in the party is one Tom Pepper, " headman for 
shore," who wears in these dogdays an English black 
tile, and a pea-jacket over his breech-cloth. Tom, how- 
ever, is an invincible sloven, and cares less for dress 
than any noble member of the House of Lords. 

From the Hotel we walked to the Mission House — 
the large building near the lighthouse — and were pleased 
with the contrast between this little place and S'a 

Europeans, and not like the heathen." It is easy to understand the 
feeling, but I find it impossible to share it. V\'hy should pagandom 
have all the handsome dressing, as the devil is said to have all the good 
music, and not a little of all the good poetry ? 



SIX ROUES AT THE CAPE OF PALMS 295 

Leone. The houses are mostly two-storied, of stone or 
lumber, the latter, however, generally raised upon a 
strong foundation : servants' rooms and offices are in the 
lower part • in the upper are the bed-rooms and parlour, 
surrounded by a shady piazza— an excellent sanatory 
arrangement. They are roomy and comfortable, the 
exteriors are unstained, and the gudewife keeps the 
inside neat and clean : a great difference from the tumble- 
down, soiled, and sullied aspect of a homestead further 
North, where women do nothing but sit before their 
" blies" in the market. Around the tenements are little 
gardens of okras and cabbages, rose-apples, guavas, 
oranges, limes, and prickly pears, plantains, breadfruits, 
the Patanga cherry, with fruit and flavour resembling both 
the peach, and the chirimoya, a vine from Cape Coast 
Castle, and an Indian bamboo from the Gaboon River. 
The hoe is large, and has a long handle — an invariable 
sign of industry. There are pigeon-houses and poultry 
yards, the latter well stocked with fowls, ducks, and 
turkeys ; the infidel pigs are round and fat j the small 
humpless black cattle are well filled out, and even the 
prick-eared curs — some one has said that they and the 
women are in these lands the test of prosperity — wear a 
look of comparative comfort. In the east I saw a long 
strip of bright sand masking a long lagoon from the sea. 
At Palmas begins that system of natural canalization which 
runs parallel with the coast in places many hundred miles, 
and with a considerable depth into the interior. These 
lakes are of two kinds : those caused by infiltration of salt 
water through the porous sand are briny, half-bitter, like 



29G WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

the Dead Sea, and even the heavy rains fail to sweeten 
them. The others receive one or more rivers ; they are, 
therefore, brackish, rather than briny, and during the 
wet season they often burst their way through the sandy 
embankment. Both are equally fetid and miasmatic, 
and almost impossible to drain on account of the lowness 
of the bed ; both also have hitherto been used for the 
worst of purposes. Slave barracoons were built within 
spy-glass sight of the cruizers, who directed all their 
energies, naturally enough, to those points : the lagoons 
enabled the exporter to boat his cargo up or down the 
coast, and to ship it out of the enemy's sight. Let us 
hope that as these days go by, the network of lagoons, 
acting as a counterpoise to the bars and breakers that 
impede navigation, will do its work in the Herculean 
task of reclaiming Africa. 

After 100 yards or so, we arrived at the Mission House, 
where, as the Rev. C. E. Hoffman was still busy with 
the Post, we introduced ourselves to Madame. The place 
had that neatness and order which at once told me it 
was no Bachelors' Hall ; there were knicknacks, portraits, 
and similar gentilezze, which follow in the wake of 
women only. There is no place where a wife is so much 
wanted as in the Tropics ; but then comes the rub — how 
to keep the wife alive. A gruff Scotch merchant-cap- 
tain on this coast once told me, that rather than bring 
out his "missus/' he would "heave her into the river/' 
Cape Palmas is hardly an exception to the general rule of 
African insalubrity, and the time of our visit was at the 
end of the latter rains, — one of the worst seasons. Yet 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 291 

we were shown a little Africo-Anglo-American, who 
looked far less pallid and pasty than European children 
in the lowlands of India. The year, hereabouts, has four 
divisions, the others being the dries, the early rains, and 
the middle dries. The climate thus resembles that of the 
Gaboon and its adjacent coast ; in the Bights of Benin 
and Biafra there are no middle dries — the wet time 
sets in heavily at the end of May, and in places lasts till 
early November. 

"We had a long chat with Mr. Hoffman, of New York. 
With that energy winch characterises " our Transatlantic 
cousins," he had set his shoulder to the wheel ; scrupu- 
lously avoiding, and invariably rebuking in his subordi- 
nates political interference, the rock upon which English 
missionaries split.* He had turned his endeavours 
towards improving the settlement, directly and indirectly 
— the latter, of course, by means of the Press. He had 
lately returned from Nti Lu, alias Bolan's, a small and 
new station near the Cavalla Eiver, where Mr. and Mrs. 
Messenger — also whites — had made their home. He had, 
on July 9, also travelled and boated 85 miles inland to 
the head of the Cavalla Biver, over a land hitherto unex- 
plored, and had found it exceedingly pleasant and fertile. 
Though stopped by the inhabitants of the high "Webo or 
Diebo country, which were then fighting with their neigh- 



* Except the "Wesleyan, who have the strictest orders not to meddle 
with politics. Dr. Livingstone has given his own version — and every- 
body has read it — of the squabbles between the English missionaries 
and the Dutch yeomanry at the Cape of Good Hope. The public would 
be rather surprised to hear the counter-statement. 



298 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

hours, his kindness to a native chief on a previous 
occasion, now enabled him to pass through safely. There 
were hills which, however, could not aspire to be 
called mountains : in the low lands rice was growing five 
feet high, and in the uplands there was a cotton with 
shortish staple, but a large and heavy boll. He learned 
the names of twelve tribes before him, all under charge of 
one man, and he returned, not compulsorily, but because 
required at home.* Mr. Hoffman had heard from many 
of the people that the upper tribes bring down cloth, 
arms, and ammunition, from a river, at whose mouth 
European ships anchor. He says they called it Xiga ; 
he concluded, naturally enough, that this must be the 
upper stream of Kwara, Joliba, or Great Paver, whose 
head waters, in our latest maps, are called the 
" Ahmar," and still lie a line of dots.f The country, of 

* Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, London, Vol. VI. , 
No. II., pp. 66-67. It is to be noted, that after a couple of days jour- 
ney, the traveller found the country hilly, the weather cool and pleasant, 
and a good fire necessary to make himself comfortable. Moreover, he 
distinctly asserts "he met with no hindrances from the natives." I 
extract his last passages which are geographically interesting. "Near 
the source of the Cavalha River, another river flows from the hills, by 
which the natives receive English goods, cloths, salt, guns, &c, from 
vessels at its mouth. This river they call ' Niga.' I have very little 
doubt but that one of the sources of the Niger will be found a few 
weeks' travel east of Cape Palmas, and that this is the river to which 
the natives referred." 

f "Africa," by Keith Johnston, F.R.S.E. : Messrs. Blackwood, 
Edinburgh and London. I wish that maps would follow the vulgar 
practice of other printel things, and use dates ; now they are myste- 
rious as "ladies of a certain age." In " Palm Land, or West Africa, 
Cincinnati, 1856," a book written quite in the " Ercles vein," by a 
Mr. Thompson, unm'otakeably one of the "Zouaves of Christianity," 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 299 

course, will be trying and difficult to traverse; perhaps, 
however, asses might be used to advantage. The 
animals could be brought from Liverpool by steamer, at 
a cost of SI. ; I should prefer them from Tenerife. 

Mr. Hoffman is of that spare figure and nervous 
diathesis which best enable a man to endure tropical 
hardships and fatigues. He had been encouraged by his 
explorations to take daily walking exercise, and he 
intends to carry on his discoveries still further. I 



and to -whom especially the remarks which follow in the text apply, 
we read that the sources of the Niger, coy as those of her sister Kile, 
have been discovered by "Brother Brooks" of the Mendi mission. 
Unfortunately the direction assigned to them is entirely wrong. The 
following is a condensation of the story : — 

It appears that the brother once travelled about 200 miles north-east 
of Sherbro Island, over a country where all the streams ran to the west 
and south-west, the direction of the rivers Big Boom and the Gallinhas, 
or St. Paul's. Having reached the " Kong Mountains," and ascended 
tbem for two or three days, in which he made some fifty miles, he came 
to an extensive table-land, so full of bog, swamp, and mud, that he 
was compelled to trot over sticks. Out of this morass flowed two 
streams, one to the south, the other to the north or the north-east — the 
first that he had seen taking this direction. It was a dashing little 
brook : the natives called it " Quarra" (Kwara), and a village near it 
was named " Quarroo." Mr. Thompson assumes this to be the Niger. 
But, setting aside the difficulty of the morass sending forth two streams 
in different directions, it is evident that, unless all our charts are 
erroneous, 250 miles north-east of Sherbro Island would place the 
traveller on the western crescent of the Kong Mountains. 

The latter are almost as mysterious as the sources of the Niger. 
The name is derived from Park. In Mr. Macbriar's Mandingo Vocabulary 
we find that Konko means a hill : hence, doubtless, our garbled name. 
Mr. Thompson remarks, that the highlands explored by "Brother 
Brooks " were called by the natives " Kahm," and one of the villages 
" Kahm-boa-mat," or mountain road. He opines that Kahm might 
have been corrupted to Kong, which is not likely. 



300 ll'ANDEEINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

exhorted him to communicate with the Royal Geographi- 
cal Society of Great Britain, and wish him every success. 
For African exploration the Anglo-American is probably 
the best of men, physically and morally : his energy and 
sobriety are far superior to that of the older family, and 
he has had from his youth sufficient experience of 
Africans to — despite overwrought English sensibilities 
regarding the black men — appreciate their merits and 
demerits, and to treat them as they should be treated. 
He is a favourite wherever he goes, by reason of a certain 
freedom of manner which is liked everywhere save in 
England. The only pity is that he should ever appear 
in print. Then he is compelled by Public Opinion — 
that tyrant which renders the Eree Republic the worst 
of despotisms — to introduce some fustian "bunkum," 
and ad captandum sneers touching kings and queens, 
lords and landlords, the decadence of England, and the 
oppressively brilliant prospects of the United States, the 
blessings of a democracy, and the curses of limited 
monarchy, till every New World reader thinks himself, 
very vainly, a shining light to those who dwell in the 
outer darkness of European civilization. 

After seeing the Mission House, we walked with Mr. 
Hoffman to the adjacent building, St. Mark's Hospital, 
Cape Palm as. Three lots of ground were secured for a 
society, of which Bishop Payne became ex officio president; 
officers and managers were elected, and the laying of the 
corner-stone on the 24th April, 1859, was commemorated 
with prayers, addresses, and speeches, which more 
Americano did not fail to see themselves in print. The 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 301 

worthy missionaries found some difficulty in collecting 
even a portion of the 500£, at which the cost was esti- 
mated. The site chosen was excellent — healthy, if there 
be any place so on this coast — facing to the S.S. W. on the 
Cape summit, with a clear slope to the channel, which, 
three fathoms deep, separates the land from Russwurn's 
Island; and with a beautiful prospect of the blue beyond. 
The institution, supported by voluntary contributions, is 
intended for the benefit of colonists, natives, and Euro- 
pean seamen, and it is proposed to place it under the 
charge of some " Christian Lady." The building, when 
I visited Cape Palmas, was approaching completion, 
and would be partially opened next year. It is a solid, 
substantial edifice, with thick walls of cut stone, forty 
feet by twenty-two. An upper ward will accommodate 
in-door patients, and the officers' quarters, and the dis- 
pensary are on the ground floor. The beams, rafters, and 
scantlings are mostly cedar or African mahogany, both 
fine close-grained woods, which the Admiralty may find 
useful. The planking is of brimstone-wood, so called 
from its colour; the close-grained texture tries tools 
severely, but it takes a polish equal to satin-wood, and 
will be a favourite with European cabinet-makers ; its 
hardness gives it immunity from the attacks of those 
small destructionists, the termites, here called bug-a-bug.* 
I have no hesitation in strongly recommending this hos- 



* The fine African timbers, for ship hnilding purposes, fetch in 
England from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. per foot, or 61. 5s. to 81. 15s. per load 
of fifty feet. Others realise much more, especially when suitable for 
masts. At Fernando Po a cedar was measured, and found to be a total of 



302 WANDERINGS IN WEST AFRICA. 

pital to the merchants of Liverpool and Bristol; in fact, to 
all who are connected with the West African coast.* Cape 
Palmas is at present the only establishment of the kind 
between Tenerife and Ascension. We shall at some time 
have one of our own upon the Camaroons Mountains. 

240 English feet high — of which ninety were clear of branches —seven 
feet in diameter, and, calculating from the specific gravity of European 
cedar, thirty-nine tons of timber. The minimum value of the 120 
scantlings, into which it could be cut, would be in Spain 120 doubloons. 

* The following appeal tells its own story :— 

St. Mark's Hospital, Cape Palmas. — The work has commenced, and 
now we respectfully appeal to all : 

To Christians. — That we may glorify God in this work, by healing 
the sick, and administering to the wants of the suffering. 

To the Friends of Colonization. — Many of the emigrants sent here 
suffer from sickness, after the peiiod of six months has passed, during 
which they receive aid from the Colonization Society. They have no 
houses provided for them ; cases occur where death follows from the 
want of care for a little longer season. In some cases of older residents, 
death has followed from ulcers and other diseases, which, had they 
been judiciously treated, valuable lives would have been saved. 

To Captains and Seamen. — We seek to build a house where you may 
find sympathy and care, and receive such medical treatment as you may 
need on that sickly coast. 

To Merchants and Shippers. — Give us of your abundance, that 
we may take care of those who command your vessels and gather your 
wealth. 

To the Friends of the Heathen. — Make us the almoners of your 
gifts, that we may minister temporal relief to those whom we also 
would seek to win to the religion of Christ. 

To all whose eyes meet these lines. — "We ask your aid, for although 
we have but briefly written, the object will commend itself to you more 
and more on reflection ; the Institution is greatly needed, and the end 
in view is noble and blessed. 

Donations and communications may be sent to the care of Rev. S. D. 
Denison, Secretary Foreign Committee, No. 19, Bible House, New 
York ; Dr. James Hall, Secretary Maryland Col. Society, Baltimore ; 
Bev. A. Crummel, Cor. Secretary, St. Mark's Hospital, Cape Palmas, 



SIX HOURS AT THE CAPE OF PALMS. 303 

But — Britannia is middle-aged and averse to hurry — a 
few years will probably elapse before it can be made 
available. 

W. A. ; and C. C. Hoffman, Rector St. Mark's Hospital, Cape Palmas, 
W.A. 

Boxes and packages to be addressed, St. Mark's Hospital, care of 
Hon. J. T. Gibson, Cape Palmas, W. A. 

Donations of furniture, wearing apparel, bedding, provisions, 
medicines, &c, are solicited. 

Signed ia behalf of the Officers and Managers, — Rev. C. C. Hoffman, 
Rector ; Rev. A. Crummel, Cor. Secretary ; Josepb T. Gibson, Superin- 
tendent of Co. of Cape Palmas. 

It gives me great pleasure to state that the object set forth in the 
above appeal has my most cordial approbation. 

Jno. Payne, Bishop Prot. Epis. Ch. U.S.A. at 
C. Palmas, and parts adjacent. 

Extract from the Report of the Rt. Rev. J. Payne, Bishop Prot. Epis. 
Ch. U. S. A. at C. Palmas, and parts adjacent, to the Board of Foreign 
Missions, New York, U. S. A. : — 

"The earnest Rector of St. Mark's and of the Orphan Asylum, whom 
God continually gives grace to devise good and liberal things, has com- 
menced, during the year, a Hospital for the accommodation of invalid 
colonists, natives, and foreigners of all nations visiting the Port of Cape 
Palmas. 

"This Institution is no further connected with the Mission than by 
its constitution to secure the pastoral care of one of its Missionaries. 
It is, however, so important — being the only one of the kind on the 
coast — that it will receive a generous support from the benevolent of 
this and all other countries interested in the commerce of Africa, and 
the welfare of its inhabitants." 



END OF VOL. I. 



LONDON: BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFR1ARS. 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 

Los Angeles 

This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 



NON-RtNtMBLE 

JAN fc*> 1392 



DUE 2 WKS FROM DAT 



RECEIVED 



315 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 



A 000 537 787 



