About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/bub_gb_eBNXAAAAMAAJ/page/n9/mode/2up

--------------------------------------

THE 



LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA 



A PICTURE OF EXPLORATION 



BY 


RICHARD F. BURTON 

Capt. H. M. I. Army : Fellow and Gold Medallist of the Royal Geographical Society 




"Some to discover islands far away " — Shakspere 



IS TWO VOLUMES 
VOL. II. 



LONDON 

LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, AND ROBERTS 

1860 


The right of translation is reserved.



Digitized by Googl 



CONTENTS 

or 

THE SECOND VOLUME. 



CHAPTER XH. 
The Geography and Ethnology of Unyamwczi. — The Fourth 






1 


CHAP. XIII. 

At length we sight the Lake Tanganyika, the " Sea of Ujiji." . 


34 


CHAP. XIV. 

* 

We explore the Tanganyika Lake 


80 


CHAP. XV 

The Tanganyika Lake and its Periplus ... 


134 


CHAP. XVI. 
We return to Unyanycmbe ... 


tf55 


CHAP. XVII. 

The Down- march to the Coast ... . 


223 



CONTEXTS. 



CHAP. XVIII 

Village Lite in East Africa 278 



CHAP. XTY 

The Character and Religion of the East Africans ; their 

Government, and Slavery 324 



Conclusion 



SIR 



APPENDICES. 

Appendix I. : Commerce, Imports, and Exports . . . 387 
Appendix II. : Official Correspondence 420 



» 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

IN 

THE SECOND VOLUME. 



CHROMOXYLOGRAPHS. 

f the Tanganyika Lake Frontispiece. 

View in Usngara to face page 1 

Snay bin Amir's House )? 155 

Saydumi, a native of Uganda m 223 

The Basin of Maroro " 255 

The Basin of Kisanga m 278 

WOODCUTS. 

Iwanza, or public-houses ; with Looms to the left ... 1 

My Tembe near the Tangangika 34 

Head Dresses of Wanyarawezi 80 

African heads, and Ferry-boat 134 

Portraits of Muinyi Kidogo, the Kiratigozi, the Mgangu, &c. .155 

Mgongo Thembo, or the Elephant's Back 223 

Jiwe la Mkoa, the Round Rock 242 

Rufita Pass in Usagara 259 

The Ivory Porter, the Cloth Porter, and Woman in Usagara . 278 

Gourd, Stool, Bellows, Guitar, and Dium 292 

Gourds * ........... 313 

A Mnyamwezi and a Mhcha 324 

The Bull-headed Mabruki, and the African standing position . 378 

The Elephant Rock .584 



Digitized by Google 



Digitized by Google 



* 



• ¦ 



- 

- - 



Digitized by Google 



THE 



LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

— ¦ 




A village interior in the Land of the Moon. 
Utanta or loom. Iwanza, or public houses. 

CHAPTER XII. 

THE GEOGRAPHY AND ETHNOLOGY OF UNTAMWEZI. — THE FOURTH 

REGION. 

The fourth division is a hilly table-land, extending 
from the western skirts of the* desert Mgunda Mk'hali, 
in E. long. 33° 57', to the eastern banks of the Mala* 
garazi River, in E. long. 31° 10': it thus stretches 

VOL. II. b 

) 



Digitized by Google 



3 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



diagonally over 155 rectilinear geographical miles. 
Bounded on the north by Usui and the Nyanza Lake, 
to the south-eastwards by Ugala, southwards by Ukimbu, 
. and south-westwards by Uwende, it has a depth of from 
twenty-five to thirty marches. Native caravans, if 
lightly laden, can accomplish it in twenty-five days, 
including four halts. The maximum altitude observed 
by B. P. therm, was 4050 feet, the minimum 2850. 
This region contains the two great divisions of Unyam- 
wezi and Uvinza. 

The name of Unyamwezi was first heard by the 
Portuguese, according to Giovanni Botero, towards the 
end of the sixteenth century, or about 1589. Piga- 
fetta, who, in 1591, systematised the discoveries of the 
earlier Portuguese, placed the empire of u Monemugi " 
or Munimigi in a vast triangular area, whose limits 
were Monomotapa, Congo, and Abyssinia: from his 
pages it appears that the people of this central kingdom 
were closely connected by commerce with the towns on 
the eastern coast of Africa. According to Dapper, the 
Dutch historian, (1671,) whose work has been the great 
mine of information to subsequent writers upon Africa 
south of the equator, about sixty days' journey from 
the Atlantic is the kingdom of Monemugi, which others 
call " Nitneamaye," a name still retained under the cor- 
rupted form " Nimeaye " in our atlases. M. Maltc- 
Brun, senior, mentioning Mounemugi, adds, " ou, selon 
unc autographc plus authentique, Mou-nimougi." All 
the Portuguese authors call the people Monemugi or 
Mono-emugi ; Mr. Cooley prefers Monomoezi, which he 
derives from "Munha Munge," or "lord of the world," the 
title of a great African king in the interior, commemor- 
ated by the historian De Barros. Mr. Macqueen ('Geo- 
graphy of Central Africa'), who also gives Manmoise, 
declares that " Mueno-muge, Mueno inuize, Monomoise, 



Digitized by 



THE WORD UNYAMWEZI. 



3 



and Uniamese," relate to the same place and people, 
comprehending a large extent of country in the interior 
of Africa : he explains the word erroneously to mean 
the " great Moises or Movisas." The Rev. Mr. Erhardt 
asserts that for facility of pronunciation the coast mer- 
chants have turned the name " Wanamesi " into " Wania- 
mesi," which also leads his readers into error. The 
Rev. Mr. Livingstone thus endorses the mistake of 
Messrs. Macqueen and Erhardt : " The names Mono- 
moizes, spelt also Monemuigis and Monomuizes, and 
Monomotapistas, when applied to the tribes, are exactly 
the same as if we should call the Scotch the Lord 
Douglases . . . Monomoizes was formed from Moiza or 
Muiza, the singular of the word Babisa or Aiza, the 
proper name of a large tribe to the north." In these 
sentences there is a confusion between the lands of the 
Wanyamwezi, lying under the parallel of the Tanganyika 
Lake, and the Wabisa (in the 'singular Mbisa, the 
Wavisa of the Rev. Mr. Rebmann), a well-known com- 
mercial tribe dwelling about the Maravi or Nyassa Lake, 
S.W. of Kilwa, whose name in times of old was cor- 
rupted by the Portuguese to Movizas or Movisas. 
Finally M. Guillain, in a work already alluded to, states 
correctly the name of the people to be Oua-nyamouczi, 
but in designating the country " pays de Nyamouezi," 
he shows little knowledge of the Zangian dialects. 
M. V. A. Malte-Brun, junior (* Bulletin de Geogra- 
phic,' Paris, 1856, Part II. p. 295) correctly writes 
Wanyamwezi. 

A name so discrepancy corrupted deserves some 
notice. Unyamwezi is translated by Dr. Krapf and 
the Rev. Mr. Rebmann, " Possessions of the Moon." 
The initial U, the causal and locative prefix, denotes 
the land, nya, .of, and mwezi, articulated m'ezi with 



4 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



semi-elision of the w, means the moon. The people 
sometimes pronounce their country name Unyamiezi, 
which would be a plural form, miezi signifying moons 
or months. The Arabs and the people of Zanzibar, for 
facility and rapidity of pronunciation, dispense with 
the initial dissyllable, and call the country and its race 
Mwezi. The correct designation of the inhabitants of 
Unyamwezi is, therefore, Mnyarawezi in the singular, 
and AVanyamwezi in the plural: Kinyamwezi is the 
adjectival form. It is not a little curious that the Greeks 
should have placed their t^s <re\ywi$ opo$ — the mountain 
of the moon — and the Hindus their Soma Giri (an ex- 
pression probably translated from the former), in the 
vicinity of the African " Land of the Moon." It is 
impossible to investigate the antiquity of the vernacular 
term ; all that can be discovered is, that nearly 350 
years ago the Portuguese explorers of Western Africa 
heard the country de'signated by its present name. 

There is the evidence of barbarous tradition for a 
belief in the existence of Unyamwezi as a great empire, 
united under a single despot. The elders declare that 
their patriarchal ancestor became after death the first 
tree, and afforded shade to his children and descen- 
dants. According to the Arabs the people still perform 
pilgrimage to a holy tree, and believe that the penalty 
of sacrilege in cutting off a twig would be visited by 
sudden and mysterious death. All agree in relating 
that during the olden time Unyamwezi was united 
under a single sovereign, whose tribe was the Wakala- 
ganza, still inhabiting the western district, Usagozi. Ac- 
cording to the people, whose greatest chronical measure 
is a Masika, or rainy season, in the days of the grand- 
fathers of their grandfathers the last of the Wanyam- 
wezi emperors died. His children and nobles divided 
and dismembered his dominions, further partitions en- 



Digitized by 



- 



UNYAMWEZI A GREAT EMPIRE. 5 

sued, and finally the old empire fell into the hands of a 
rabble of petty chiefs. Their wild computation would 
point to an epoch of 150 years ago — a date by no means 
improbable. 

These glimmerings of light thrown by African tradi- 
tion illustrate the accounts given by the early Portu- 
guese concerning the extent and the civilisation of the 
Unyamwezi empire. Moreover, African travellers in the 
seventeenth century concur in asserting that, between 
250 and 300 years ago, there was an outpouring of the 
barbarians from the heart of ^Ethiopia and from the 
shores of the Central Lake towards the eastern and 
southern coasts of the peninsula, a general waving and 
wandering of tribes which caused great ethnological 
and geographical confusion, public demoralisation, dis- 
memberment of races, and change, confusion, and cor- 
ruption of tongues. About this period it is supposed 
the kingdom of Mtdndd, the first Kazembe, was es- 
tablished. The Kafirs of the Cape also date their migra- 
tion from the northern regions to the banks of the Kei 
about a century and a half ago. 

In these days Unyamwezi has returned to the political 
status of Eastern Africa in the time of the Periplus. It 
is broken up into petty divisions, each ruled by its 
own tyrant; his authority never extends beyond five 
marches ; moreover, the minor chiefs of the different 
districts are virtually independent of their suzerains. 
One language is spoken throughout the land of the 
Moon, but the dialectic differences are such that the 
tribes in the east with difficulty understand their 
brethren in the west. The principal provinces are — 
Utakama to the extreme north, Usukuraa on the south, 
— in Kinyamwezi sukuma means the north, takama the 
south, kiya the east, and mwere the west, — Unyan- 

B 3 



Digitized by Google 



6 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

yembe in the centre, Ufyoma and Utumbara in the 
north-west, Unyangwira in the south-cast, Usagozi and 
Usumbwa to the westward. The three normal divisions 
of the people are into Wanyamwezi, Wasukuma or 
northern, and Watakama or southern. 

The general character of Unyamwezi is rolling ground, 
intersected with low conical and tabular hills, whose lines 
ramify in all directions. No mountain is found in the 
country. The superjacent stratum is clay, overlying the 
sandstone based upon various granites, which in some 
places crop out, picturesquely disposed in blocks and 
boulders and huge domes and lumpy masses ; ironstone is 
met with at a depth varying from five to twelve feet, and 
at Kazeh, the Arab settlement in Unyanycmbe, bits of 
coarse ore were found by digging not more than four 
feet in a chance spot. During the rains a coat of 
many-tinted greens conceals the soil ; in the dry sea- 
son the land is grey, lighted up by golden stubbles 
and dotted with wind-distorted trees, shallow swamps 
of emerald grass, and wide sheets of dark mud. 
Dwarfed stumps and charred "black-jacks" deform 
the fields, which are sometimes ditched or hedged in, 
whilst a thin forest of parachute-shaped thorns diver- 
sifies the waves of rolling land and earth-hills spotted 
with sun-burnt stone. The reclaimed tracts and clear- 
• ings are divided from one another by strips of primeval 

jungle, varying from two to twelve miles in length. As 
in most parts of Eastern Africa, the country is dotted 
with u fairy mounts " — dwarf mounds, the ancient sites 
of trees now crumbled to dust, and the ddbris of insect 
architecture ; they appear to be rich ground, as they are 
always diligently cultivated. The yield of the soil, ac- 
cording to the Arabs, averages sixty-fold, even in un- 
favourable seasons. 



Digitized by Google 



BEAUTY OF UXTAMWEZI 



7 * 



The Land of tlie Moon, which is the garden of 
Central Intertropical Africa, presents an aspect of 
peaceful rural beauty which soothes the eye like a 
medicine after the red glare of barren Ugogo, and the 
dark monotonous verdure of the western provinces. 
The inhabitants are comparatively numerous in the 
villages, which rise at short intervals above their im- 
pervious walls of the lustrous green milk-bush, with 
its coral-shaped arms, variegating the well-hoed plains ; 
whilst in the pasture-lands frequent herds of many- 
coloured cattle, plump, round-barrelled, and high- 
humped, like the Indian breeds, and mingled flocks of 
goats and sheep dispersed over the landscape, suggest 
ideas of barbarous comfort and plenty. There are few 
scenes more soft and soothing than a view of Unyam- 
wezi in the balmy evenings of spring. As the large 
yellow sun nears the horizon, a deep stillness falls upon 
earth : even the zephyr seems to lose the power of rust- 
ling the lightest leaf. The milky haze of midday dis- 
appears from the firmament, the flush of departing day 
mantles the distant features of scenery with a lovely 
rose-tint, and the twilight is an orange glow that burns 
like distant horizontal fires, passing upwards through an 
imperceptibly graduated scale of colours — saffron, yel- 
low, tender green, and the lightest azure — into the dark 
blue of the infinite space above. The charm of the 
hour seems to affect even the unimaginative Africans, 
as they sit in the central spaces of their villages, or, 
stretched under the forest- trees, gaze upon the glories 
around. 

In Unyamwezi water generally lies upon the surface, 
during the rains, in broad shallow pools, which become 
favourite sites for rice-fields. Those little ziwa and 
mbuga — ponds and marshes — vary from two to five 

D 4 



Digitized 



8 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

feet below the level of the land ; in the dry season 
they are betrayed from afar by a green line of livelier 
vegetation streaking the dead tawny plain. The Arabs 
seldom dig their wells deeper than six feet, and they 
complain of the want of " live- water" gushing from the 
rocky ground, as in their native Oman. The country 
contains few springs, and the surface of retentive clay 
prevents the moisture penetrating to the subsoil. The 
peculiarity of the produce is its decided chalybeate 
flavour. The versant of the country varies. The 
eastern third, falling to the south-east, discharges its 
surplus supplies through the Rwaha river into the 
Indian Ocean ; in the centre, water seems to stagnate ; 
and in the western third, the flow, turning to the north 
and north-west, is carried by the Gombe nullah — a 
string of pools during the dry season, and a rapid un- 
fordable stream during the rains — into the great Mala- 
garazi river, the principal eastern influent of the Tan- 
ganyika Lake. The levels of the country and the direction 
of the waters combine to prove that the great depres- 
sion of Central Africa, alluded to in the preceding chap- 
ter, commences in the district of Kigwa in Unyamwezi. 

The climate of the island and coast of Zanzibar has, 
it must be remembered, double seasons, which are ex- 
ceedingly confused and irregular. The lands of Un- 
yamwezi and Uvinza, on the other hand, are as 
remarkable for simplicity of division. There eight 
seasons disturb the idea of year ; here but two — a 
summer and a winter. Central Africa has, as the 
Spaniards say of the Philippine Isles, 

** Seis mezes de polvo, 
Seis mezes de lodo." 

In 1857 the Masika, or rains, commenced throughout 
Eastern Unyamwezi on the 14th of November. In the 



VIOLENT STORMS. 



9 



northern and western provinces the wet monsoon begins 
earlier and lasts longer. At Msene it precedes Unyan- 
yerabe about a month; in Ujiji, Karagwah, and Uganda, 
nearly two months. Thus the latter countries have a 
rainy season which lasts from the middle of September 
till the middle of May. 

The moisture-bearing wind in this part of Africa is 
the fixed south-east trade, deflected, as in the great 
valley of the Mississippi and in the island of Ceylon, 
into a periodical south-west monsoon. As will appear 
in these pages, the downfalls begin earlier in Central 
Africa than upon the eastern coast, and from the latter 
point they travel by slow degrees, with the nortfiing 
sun, to the north-east, till they find a grave upon the 
rocky slopes of the Himalayas. 

The rainy monsoon is here ushered in, accompanied, 
and terminated by storms of thunder and lightning, 
and occasional hail-falls. The blinding flashes of 
white, yellow, or rose colour play over the firma- 
ment uninterruptedly for hours, during which no 
darkness is visible. In the lighter storms thirty and 
thirty-five flashes may be counted in a minute : so vivid 
is the glare that it discloses the finest shades of colour, 
and appears followed by a thick and palpable gloom, 
such as would hang before a blind man's eyes, whilst a 
deafening roar simultaneously following the flash, seems 
to travel, as it were, to and fro overhead. Several 
claps sometimes sound almost at the same moment, and 
as if coming from different directions. The same storm 
will, after the most violent of its discharges, pass over, 
arid be immediately followed by a second, showing the 
superabundance of electricity in the atmosphere. When 
hail is about to fall, a rushing noise is heard in the air, 
with sudden coolness and a strange darkness from the 



Digitized by Google 



10 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

* 

canopy of brownish purple clouds. The winds are 
exceedingly variable : perhaps they are most often from 
the cast and north-east during summer, from the north- 
west and south-west in the rains ; but they are answered 
from all quarters of the heavens, and the most violent 
storms sail up against the lower atmospheric currents. 
The Portuguese of the Mozambique attribute these ter- 
rible discharges of electricity to the quantity of mineral 
substances scattered about the country ; but a steaming 
land like Eastern Africa wants, during the rains, no 
stronger battery. In the rainy season the sensation is 
that experienced during the equinoctial gales in the 
Mediterranean, where the scirocco diffuses everywhere 
discomfort and disease. The fall is not, as in Western 
India, a steady downpour, lasting sometimes two or 
three days without a break. In Central Africa, rain 
seldom endures beyond twelve hours, and it often as- 
sumes for weeks an appearance of regularity, re-occurring 
at a certain time. Night is its normal season ; the morn- 
ings are often wet, and the torrid midday is generally 
dry. As in Southern Africa, a considerable decrease 
of temperature is the consequence of long-continued 
rain. Westward of Unyanyembe, hail-storms, during 
the rainy monsoon, are frequent and violent ; according 
to the Arabs, the stones sometimes rival pigeons' eggs in 
size. Throughout this monsoon the sun burns with sickly 
depressing rays, which make earth reek like a garment 
hung out to dry. Yet this is not considered the un- 
healthy period : the inundation is too deep, and eva- 
poration is yet unable to extract sufficient poison from 
decay. 

As in India and the southern regions of Africa, the 
deadly season follows the wet monsoon from the middle 
of May to the end of June. The kosi or south-west 



Digitized by Google 



CLIMATE OF UXYAMWEZI. 



11 



wind gives place to the kaskazi, or north-east, about 
April, a little later than at Zanzibar. The cold gales 
and the fervid suns then affect the outspread waters ; 
the rivers, having swollen Juring the weeks of violent 
downfall that usher in the end of the rains, begin to 
shrink, and miry morasses and swamps of black vege- 
table mud line the low-lands whose central depths are 
still under water. The winds, cooled by excessive 
evaporation and set in motion by the heat, howl over 
the country by night and day, dispersing through the 
population colds and catarrhs, agues and rheumatisms, 
dysenteries and deadly fevers. It must, however, be 
remarked that many cases which in India and Sihdh 
would be despaired of, survived in Eastern Africa. 

The hot season, or summer, lasting from the end of 
June till nearly the middle of November, forms the 
complement of the year. The air now becomes healthy 
and temperate ; the cold, raw winds rarely blow, and 
the people recover from their transition diseases. At 
long intervals, during these months, but a few grateful 
and refreshing showers, accompanied by low thunder- 
ings, cool the air and give life to the earth. These 
phenomena are expected after the change of the moon, 
and not, as in Zanzibar, during her last quarter. The 
Arabs declare that here, as in the island, rain sometimes 
falls from a clear sky — a phenomenon not unknown to 
African travellers. The drought affects the country 
severely, a curious exception to the rule in the zone of 
perpetual rain; and after August whirlwinds of dust 
become frequent. At this time the climate is most 
agreeable to the senses ; even in the hottest nights a 
blanket is welcome, especially about dawn, and it is 
possible to dine at 3 or 4 p.m., when in India the exer- 
tion would be impracticable. During the day a ring- 



Digitized by Google 



12 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



cloud, or a screen of vapour, almost invariably tempers 
the solar rays ; at night a halo, or a corona, generally 
encircles the moon. The clouds are chiefly cumulus, 
cumulo-stratus, and nimbus ; the sky is often overcast 
with large white masses floating, apparently without 
motion, upon the milky haze, and in the serenest 
weather a few threads are seen pencilled upon the 
expanse above. Sunrise is seldom thoroughly clear, 
and, when so, the clouds, sublimed in other regions and 
brought up by the rising winds, begin to gather in the 
forenoon. They are melted, as it were, by the fervent 
heat of the sun between noon and 3 p.m., at which time 
also the breezes fall light. Thick mists collect about 
sunset, and by night the skies are seldom free from 
clouds. The want of heat to dilate the atmosphere at 
this season, and the light-absorbing vegetation which 
clothes the land, causes a peculiar dimness in the Galaxy 
and " Magellan's Clouds." The twilight also is short, 
and the zodiacal light is not observed. The suffocating 
sensation of the tropics is unknown, and at noon in the 
month of September — the midsummer of this region 
—the thermometer, defended from the wind, in a single- 
fold Arab tent, never exceeded 113° Fahr. Except 
dtrring the rains, the dews are not heavy, as in Zan. 
zibar, in the alluvial valleys, and in Usagara and Ujiji : 
the people do not fear exposure to them, though, as in 
parts of France, they consider dew-wetted grass un- 
wholesome for cattle. The Arabs stand bathing in 
the occasional torrents of rain without the least appre- 
hension. The temperature varies too little for the 
European constitution, which requires a winter. The 
people, however, scarcely care to clothe themselves. 
The flies and mosquitoes — those pests of most African 
countries— are here a minor annoyance. 



Digitized by Google 



EARTHQUAKES. 



13 



The principal cause of disease during the summer of 
Unyamwezi is the east wind, which, refrigerated by the 
damp alluvial valleys of the first region and the tree- 
clad peaks and swampy plains of Usagara, sweeps the 
country, like the tramontanes of Italy, with a freezing 
cold in the midst of an atmosphere properly tepid. 
These unnatural combinations of extremes, causing 
sudden chills when the skin perspires, bring on in- 
evitable disease ; strangers often suffer severely, and the 
influenza is as much feared in Unyamwezi as in England. 
The east wind is even more dangerous in the hut than 
in the field : draughts from the four quarters play upon 
the patient, making one side of the body tremble with 
cold, whilst the other, defended by the wall or heated 
by the fire, burns with fever-glow. The gales are most 
violent immediately after the cessation of the rains; 
about the beginning of August they become warmer 
and fall light. At this time frequent whirlwinds sweep 
from the sun-parched land clouds of a fine and pene- 
trating clay-dust, and slight shocks of earthquakes are 
by no means uncommon. Three were observed by the 
Expedition — at noon on the 14th of June, 1858; on the 
morning of the 13th of June; and at 5 p.m. on the 22nd 
of November, 1858. The motion, though mild, was 
distinctly perceptible; unfortunately, means of ascer- 
taining the direction were wanted. The people of the 
country call this phenomenon "Tetemeka," or the 
trembling; and the Arabs remember a shock of a 
serious nature which took place at Unyanyembe in the 
hot season of 1852. After September, though the land 
is parched with drought, the trees begin to put forth 
their leaves ; it is the coupling season of beasts, and the 
period of nidification and incubation for birds. The 
gradual lowering of the temperature, caused by the 



Digitized by Google 



14 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

southern declination of the sun, acts like the genial 
warmth of an English spring. As all sudden changes 
from siccity to humidity are prejudicial to man, there 
is invariably severe disease at the end of the summer, 
when the rains set in. 

Travellers from Unyamwezi homeward returned often 
represent that country to be the healthiest in East- 
ern and Central Africa : they quote, as a proof, the 
keenness of their appetites and the quantity of food 
which they consume. The older residents, however, 
modify their opinions : they declare that digestion does 
not wait upon appetite; and that, as in Egypt, Mazan- 
deran, Malabar, and other hot-damp countries, no man 
long retains rude health. The Sequel© of their ma- 
ladies are. always severe; few care to use remedies, 
deeming them inefficacious against morbific influ- 
ences to them unknown ; convalescence is protracted, 
painful, and uncertain, and at length they are compelled 
to lead the lives of confirmed invalids. The gifts of 
the climate, lassitude and indolence, according to them, 
predispose to corpulence ; and the regular warmth 
induces baldness, and thins the beard, thus assimilating 
strangers in body as in .mind to the aborigines. They 
are unanimous in quoting a curious effect of climate, 
which they attribute to a corruption of the " humours 
and juices of the body." Men who, after a lengthened 
sojourn in these regions return to Oman, throw away 
the surplus provisions brought from the African coast, 
burn their clothes and bedding, and for the first two or 
three months eschew society ; a peculiar effluvium ren- 
dering them, it is said, offensive to the finer olfactories 
of their compatriots. 

The Mukunguru of Unyamwezi is perhaps the se- 
verest seasoning fever in this part of Africa. It is a 



Digitized by Google 



THE FEVER IN UNYAMWEZI. 15 

bilious remittent, which normally lasts three days ; it 
wonderfully reduces the patient in that short period, 
and in severe cases the quotidian is followed by a long 
attack of a tertian type. The consequences arc severe 
and lasting even in men of the strongest nervous dia- • 
thesis ; burning and painful eyes, hot palms and soles, 
a recurrence of shivering and flushing fits, with the 
extremities now icy cold, then painfully hot and swollen, 
indigestion, insomnolency, cutaneous eruptions and 
fever sores, languor, dejection, and all the incon- 
veniences resulting from torpidity of liver, or from an 
inordinate secretion of bile, betray the poison deep- 
lurking in the system. In some cases this fever works 
speedily ; some even, becoming at once delirious, die 
on the first or the second day, and there is invariably 
an exacerbation of symptoms before the bilious remittent 
passes away. 

The fauna of Unyamwezi are similar to those de- 
scribed in Usagara and Ugogo. In the jungles qua- 
drumana are numerous ; lions and leopards, cynhyaenas 
and wild cats haunt the forests ; the elephant and the 
rhinoceros, the giraffe and the Cape buffalo, the zebra, 
the quagga (?), and the koodoo wander over the plains ; 
and the hippopotamus and crocodile are found in every 
large pool. The nyanyi or cynocephalus in the jungles 
of Usukuma attains the size of a greyhound ; according 
to the people, there are three varieties of colour — red, 
black, and yellow. They are the terror of the neigh- 
bouring districts : women never dare to approach 
their haunts ; they set the leopard at defiance, and, 
when in a large body, they do not, it is said, fear the lion. 
The Colobus guereza, or tippet monkey, the " polume" 
of Dr. Livingstone (ch. xvi.), here called mbega, is ad- 
mired on account of its polished black skin and snowy- 



Digitized by Google 



1G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



white mane. It is a cleanly animal, ever occupied in 
polishing its beautiful garb, which, according to the 
Arabs, it tears to pieces when wounded, lest the hunter 
Bhould profit by it. The mbega lives in trees, seldom 
descending, and feeds upon the fruit and the young 
leaves. The Arabs speak of wild dogs in the vicinity 
of Unyanyembe, describing them as being about eight- 
een inches in height, with rufous-black and shaggy 
coats, and long thick tails ; they are gregarious, running 
in packs of from 20 to 200 ; they attack indiscrimi- 
nately man and the largest animals, and their only cry 
is a howl. About the time of our autumn the pools are 
visited by various kinds of aquatic birds, widgeon, 
plump little teal, fine snipe, curlew, and crane; the 
ardea, or white " paddy-bird " of India, and the " lily- 
trotter" (Parra Africana), are scattered over the 
country; and sometimes, though rarely, the chenalopex 
or common Egyptian-goose and the gorgeous-crowned 
crane (Balearica pavonina), the latter a favourite dish 
with the Arabs, appear. In several parts of Unyam- 
wezi, especially in the north, there is a large and well- 
flavoured species of black-backed goose (Sakidornis 
melanota) : the common wild duck of England was not 
seen. Several specimens of the Buceros, the secretary- 
bird (Serpentarius reptilivorus), and large vultures, 
probably the condor of the Cape, were observed in Un- 
yamwezi ; the people do not molest them, holding the 
flesh to be carrion. The Cuculus indicator, called in 
Kisawahili " tongoe," is common ; but, its honey being 
mostly hived, it does not attract attention. Grillivori, 
and a species of thrush, about the size of common larks, 
with sulphur-yellow patches under the eyes, and two 
naked black striae beneath the throat, are here migratory 
birds ; they do good service to the agriculturist against 



Digitized by 



THE FAUNA. 



17 



< 

the locust. A variety of the Loxia or grossbill con- 
structs nests sometimes in bunches hanging from the 
lower branches of the trees. The mtiko, a kind of 
water- wagtail (Motacilla), ventures into the huts with 
the audacity of a London sparrow, and the Africans 
have a prejudice against killing it. Swallows and 
martins of various kinds, some peculiarly graceful and 
slender, may be seen migrating at the approach of 
winter in regular travelling order : of these, one variety 
resembles the English bird. The Africans declare that 
a single species of hirundo, probably the sand-martin, 
builds in the precipitous earth-banks of the nullahs: 
their nests were not seen, however, as in Southern 
Africa, under the eaves of houses. There are a few 
ostriches, hawks, ravens, plovers, nightjars (Capriraul- 
gidae), red and blue jays of brilliant plume, muscicapa?, 
blackcaps or mock nightingales (Motacilla atroca- 
pilla?), passerines of various kinds, hoopoes, bulbuls, 
wrens, larks, and bats. We saw but few poisonous 
animals. Besides the dendrophis, the only ophidia 
killed in the country were snakes, with slate-coloured 
backs, and silver bellies, resembling the harmless " mas " 
or " hanash " of Somaliland, the Psammophis sibil- 
aris (L.); C. moniliger Lac^pede, — according to Mr. 
Blyth (" Journal of the As. Soc. of Bengal," vol. xxiv., 
p. 306), who declares it to be not venomous — they 
abound in the houses and destroy the rats. The people 
speak of a yellow and brown-coated snake, eight feet 
long by five or six inches in diameter ; it is probably a 
boa or rock-snake. Chiird or frogs are numerous in 
the swamps, where the frog-concerts resemble those of 
the New World ; and in the regions about the Tanga- 
nyika Lake a large variety makes night hideous with 
its croakings. Of the ranas there are many species. 
vol. it. c 



Digitized by Google 



18 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

The largest is probably the " matmalelo " of S. Africa ; 
it is eaten by the Wagogo and other tribes. A smaller 
kind is of dark colour, and with long legs, which en- 
able it to hop great distances. A third is of a dirty 
yellow, with brownish speckles. There is also a little 
green tree-frog, which adheres to the broad and almost 
perpendicular leaves of the thicker grasses. The leech is 
found in the lakes and rivers of the interior, as well as 
in Zanzibar and on both coasts of Africa ; according to 
the Arabs they are of two kinds, large and small. The 
people neither take precautions against them when 
drinking at the streams, as the Somal do, nor are they 
aware of any officinal use for the .animals; moreover, 
it is impossible to persuade a Msawahili to collect them : 
they are of P'hepo or fiendish nature, and never fail to 
haunt and harm their captor. Jongo, or huge millepedes, 
some attaining a length of half a foot, with shiny black 
bodies and red feet, are found in the fields and forests, 
especially during the rains: covered with epizoa, these 
animals present a disgusting appearance, and they seem, 
to judge from their spoils, to die off during the hot 
weather. At certain seasons there is a great variety of 
the papilionaceous family in the vicinity of waters 
where libellulas or dragon-flies also abound. The 
country is visited at irregular times by flights of locusts, 
here called nzige. In spring the plants are covered in 
parts with the p'hanzi, a large pink and green variety, 
and the destructive species depicted and described by- 
Salt: they rise from the earth like a glowing rose- 
coloured cloud, and die off about the beginning of the 
rains. The black leather-like variety, called by the 
Arabs " Satan's ass," is not uncommon : it is eaten by 
the Africans, as are many other edibles upon which 
strangers look with disgust. The Arabs describe a fly 



Digitized by Google 



THE WAKIMBU. 19 

which infests the forest-patches of Unyamwezi : it is 
about the size of a small wasp, and is so fatal that cattle 
attacked by it are at once killed and eaten before they 
become carrion from its venomous effects. In parts 
the country is dotted with ant-hills, which, when old, 
become hard as sandstone : they are generally built by 
the termite under some shady tree, which prevents too 
rapid drying, and apparently the people have not 
learned, like their brethren in South Africa, to use them 
as ovens. 

From Tura westward to Unyanyembe, the central 
district of Unyamwezi, caravans usually number seven 
marches, making a total of 60 rectilinear geographical 
miles. As far as Kigwa there is but one line of route ; 
from that point travelling parties diverge far and wide, 
like ships making their different courses. 

The races requiring notice in this region are two, the 
Wakimbu and the Wanyamwezi. 

The Wakimbu, who are emigrants into Unyamwezi, 
claim a noble origin, and derive themselves from the broad 
lands running south of Unyanyembe as far westward as 
K'hokoro. About twenty masika, wet monsoons, or years 
ago, according to themselves, in company with their 
neighbours, the Wakonongo and the Wamia, they left 
Nguru, Usanga, and Usenga, in consequence of the 
repeated attacks of the Warori, and migrated to Kipiri, 
the district lying south of Tura; they have now ex- 
tended into Mgunda Mk'hali and Unyanyembe, where 
they hold the land by permission of the Wanyamwezi. 
In these regions there are few obstacles to immigrants. 
They visit the Sultan, make a small present, obtain per- 
mission to settle, and name the village after their own 
chief ; but the original proprietors still maintain their rights 
to the soil. The Wakimbu build firmly stockaded villages, 

c 2 



Digitized by Google 



'20 



TllE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tend cattle, and cultivate sorghum and maize, millet and 
pulse, cucumbers, and water-melons. Apparently they 
are poor, being generally clad in skins. They barter 
slaves and ivory in small quantities to the merchants, 
and some travel to the coast. They are considered 
treacherous by their neighbours, and Mapokera, the 
Sultan of Tura, is, according to the Arabs, prone to 
commit " avanies" They are known by a number of 
small lines formed by raising the skin with a needle, 
and opening it by points laterally between the hair of 
the temples and the eyebrows. In appearance they are 
dark and uncomely; their arms are bows and arrows, 
spears and knives stuck in the leathern waistbelt ; some 
wear necklaces of curiously plaited straw, others a 
strip of white cowskin bound around the brow — a truly 
savage and African decoration. Their language differs 
from Kinyarawezi. 

The Wanyamwezi tribe, the proprietors of the soil, is 
the typical race in this portion of Central Africa : its 
comparative industry and commercial activity have se- 
cured to it a superiority over the other kindred races. 

The aspect of the Wanyamwezi is alone sufficient to 
disprove the existence of very elevated lands in this 
part of the African interior. They are usually of a 
dark sepia-brown, rarely coloured like diluted Indian 
ink, as are the Wahiao and slave races to the south, 
with negroid features markedly less Semitic than the 
people of the eastern coast. The effluvium from their 
skins, especially after exercise or excitement, marks 
their connection with the negro. The hair curls crisply, 
but it grows to the length of four or five inches before 
it splits ; it is usually twisted into many little ringlets 
or hanks ; it hangs down like a fringe to the neck, and 
is combed off the forehead after the manner of the 



Digitized by 



THE WANYAMWKZI. 



21 



ancient Egyptians and the modern Hottentots. The 
beard is thin and short, there are no whiskers, and the 
moustachio — when not plucked out — is scant and 
straggling. Most of the men and almost ail the women 
remove the eyelashes, and pilar hair rarely appears to 
grow. The normal figure of the race is tall and stout, 
and the women are remarkable for the elongation of 
the mammary organs. Few have small waists, and the 
only lean men in the land are the youths, the sick, and 
the famished. This race is said to be long-lived, and it 
is not deficient in bodily strength and savage courage. 
The clan-mark is a double line of little cuts, like the 
marks of cupping, made by a friend with a knife or 
razor, along the temporal fossa? from the external edges 
of the eyebrows to the middle of the cheeks or to the 
lower jaws. Sometimes a third line, or a band of three 
small lines, is drawn down the forehead to the bridge of 
the nose. The men prefer a black, charcoal being the 
substance generally used, the women a blue colour, and 
the latter sometimes ornament their faces with little 
perpendicular scars below the eyes. They do not file 
the teeth into a saw-shape as seen amongst the southern 
races, but they generally form an inner triangular or 
wedge-shaped aperture by chipping away the internal 
corners of the two front incisors like the Damaras, and 
the women extract the lower central teeth. Both sexes 
enlarge the lobes of the ears. In many parts of the 
country skins are more commonly worn than cloth, ex- 
cept by the Sultans and the wealthier classes. The 
women wear the long tobe of the coast, tightly wrapped 
round either above or more commonly below the breast ; 
the poorer classes veil the bosom with a square or 
softened skin ; the remainder of the dress is a kilt or 
short petticoat of the same material extending from 

c 3 



Digitized by Google 



22 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

waist to knee. Maidens never cover the breast, and 
children are rarely clothed ; the infant, as usual in East 
Africa, is carried in a skin fastened by thongs behind 
the parent's back. The favourite ornaments are beads, 
of which the red coral, the pink, and the "pigeon-eggs" 
made at Nuremberg are preferred. From the neck 
depend strings of beads with kiwangwa, disks of shell 
brought from the coast, and crescents of hippopotamus 
teeth country made, and when the beard is long it is 
strung with red and particoloured beads. Brass and 
copper bangles or massive rings are worn upon the 
wrists, the forearm bears the ponderous kitindi or coil 
bracelet, and the arm above the elbow is sometimes de- 
corated with circlets of ivory or with a razor in an ivory . 
etui; the middle is girt with a coil of wire twisted 
round a rope of hair or fibre, and the ankles are covered 
with small iron bells and the rings of thin brass, copper, 
or iron wire, called sambo. When travelling, a goat's 
horn, used as a bugle, is secured over the right shoulder 
by a lanyard and allowed to hang by the left side : in 
the house many wear a smaller article of the same kind, 
hollowed inside and containing various articles intended 
as charms, and consecrated by the Mganga or medicine- 
man. The arms are slender assegais with the shoulders 
of the blade rounded off: they are delivered, as by the 
Somal, with the thumb and forefinger after a preliminary 
of vibratory motion, but the people want the force 
and the dexterity of the Kafirs. Some have large 
spears for thrusting, and men rarely leave the hut 
without their bows and arrows, the latter unpoisoned, 
but curiously and cruelly barbed. They make also the 
long double-edged knives called sime, and different 
complications of rungu or knob-kerries, some of them 
armed with an iron lance-head upon the wooden bulge. 



Digitized by Google 



0>'E OF TWIXS KILLED. 



23 



Dwarf battle-axes are also seen, but not so frequently 
as amongst the western races on the Tanganyika Lake. 
The shield in Unyamwezi resembles that of Usagara ; 
it is however rarely used. 

There are but few ceremonies amongst the Wanyam- 
wezi. A woman about to become a mother retires 
from the hut to the jungle, and after a few hours 
returns with a child wrapped in goatskin upon her 
back, and probably carrying a load of firewood on her 
head. The medical treatment of the Arabs with salt 
and various astringents for forty days is here unknown. 
Twins are not common as amongst the Kafir race, and 
one of the two is invariably put to death ; the universal 
custom amongst these tribes is for the mother to wrap 
a gourd or calabash in skins, to place it to sleep with, 
and to feed it like, the survivor. If the wife die with- 
out issue, the widower claims from her parents the sum 
paid to them upon marriage ; if she leave a child, the 
property is preserved for it. When the father can 
afford it, a birth is celebrated by copious libations of 
pombe. Children are suckled till the end of the second 
year. Their only education is in the use of the bow and 
arrow ; after the fourth summer the boy begins to learn 
archery with diminutive weapons, which are gradually 
increased in strength. Names are given without cere- 
mony ; and as in the countries to the eastward, many 
of the heathens have been called after their Arab 
visitors. Circumcision is not practised by this people. 
The children in Unyamwezi generally are the property 
not of the uncle but of the father, who can sell or slay 
them without blame ; in Usukuma or the northern 
lands, however, succession and inheritance are claimed 
by the nephews or sisters' sons. The Wanyamwezi 
have adopted the curious practice of leaving property 

c 4 



Digitized by Google 



24 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

to their illegitimate children by slave girls or concu- 
bines, to the exclusion of their issue by wives ; they 
justify it by the fact of the former requiring their 
assistance more than the latter, who have friends and 
relatives to aid them. As soon as the boy can walk 
he tends the flocks ; after the age of ten he drives the 
cattle to pasture, and, considering himself independent 
of his father, he plants a tobacco-plot and aspires to 
build a hut for himself. There is not a boy " which 
/..^,t cannot earn his own meat." 

Another peculiarity of the Wanyamwezi is the posi- 
tion of the Wahdra or unmarried girls. Until puberty 
they live in the father's house; after that period the 
spinsters of the village, who usually number from seven 
to a dozen, assemble together and build for themselves 
at a distance from their homes a hut where they can 
receive their friends without parental interference. 
There is but one limit to community in single life : if 
the Mhara or " maiden " be likely to become a mother, 
her "young man" must marry her under pain of 
mulct ; and if she die in childbirth, her father demands 
from her lover a large fine for having taken away his 
daughter's life. Marriage takes place when the youth 
can afford to pay the price for a wife : it varies accord- 
ing to circumstances from one to ten cows. The wife 
is so far the property of the husband that he can claim 
damages from the adulterer ; he may not, however, sell 
her, except when in difficulties. The marriage is cele- 
brated with the usual carouse, and the bridegroom 
takes up his quarters in his wife's home, not under her 
father's roof. Polygamy is the rule with the wealthy. 
There is little community of interests and apparently a 
lack of family affection in these tribes. The husband, 
when returning from the coast laden with cloth, will 



Digitized by Google 



DEATH AND BURIAL. 



25 



refuse a single shukkah to his wife, and the wife suc- 
ceeding to an inheritance will abandon her husband to 
starvation. The man takes charge of the cattle, goats, 
sheep, and poultry; the woman has power over the 
grain and the vegetables ; and each must grow tobacco, 
having little hope of borrowing from the other. Widows 
left with houses, cattle, and fields, usually spend their 
substance in supporting lovers, who are expected occa- 
sionally to make presents in return. Hence no coast 
slave in Wanyamwezi is ever known to keep a shukkah 
of cloth. 

The usual way of disposing of a corpse in former times 
was, to carry it out on the head and to throw it into 
some jungle strip where the fisi or cynhyaena abounds, — 
a custom which accounts for the absence of graveyards. 
The Wanyamwezi at first objected to the Arabs pub- 
licly burying their dead in their fields, for fear of pol- 
lution ; they would assemble in crowds to close the 
way against a funeral party. The merchants, however, 
persevered till they succeeded in establishing a right. 
When a Mnyamwezi dies in a strange country, and his 
comrades take the trouble to inter him, thev turn the 
face of the corpse towards the mothers village, a pro- 
ceeding which shows more sentiment than might be 
expected from them. The body is buried standing, or 
tightly bound in a heap, or placed in a sitting position 
with the arms clasping the knees : if the deceased be a 
great man, a sheep and a bullock are slaughtered for a 
funeral feast, the skin is placed over his face, and the 
hide is bound to his back. When a sultan dies in a 
foreign land his body is buried upon the spot, and his 
head, or what remains of it, is carried back for sepul- 
ture to his own country. The chiefs of Unyamwezi 
generally are interred by a large assemblage of their 



Digitized by Google 



26 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



subjects with cruel rites. A deep pit is sunk, with a 
kind of vault or recess projecting from it : in this the 
corpse, clothed with skin and hide, and holding a bow 
in the right hand, is placed sitting, with a pot of pombe, 
upon a dwarf stool, whilst sometimes one, but more 
generally three female slaves, one on each side and the 
third in front, are buried alive to preserve their lord 
from the horrors of solitude. A copious libation of 
pombe upon the heaped-up earth concludes the cere- 
mony. According to the Arabs, the Wasukuma inter 
all their sultans in a jungle north of Unyanyembe, and 
the neighbouring peasants deposit before seed-time small 
offerings of grain at the Mzimo or Fetiss-house which 
marks the spot. 

The habitations of the eastern Wanyamwezi are the 
Terabe, which in the west give way to the circular 
African hut ; among the poorer sub- tribes the dwelling 
is a mere stack of straw. The best Tembe have large 
projecting eaves supported by uprights: cleanliness, 
however, can never be expected in them. Having no 
limestone, the people ornament the inner and outer 
walls with long lines of ovals formed by pressing the 
finger tips, after dipping them into ashes and water for 
whitewash, and into red clay or black mud for variety 
of colour. With this primitive material they sometimes 
attempt rude imitations of nature — human beings and 
serpents. In some parts the cross appears, but the 
people apparently ignore it as a symbol. Rude carving 
is also attempted upon the massive posts at the en- 
trances of villages, but the figures, though to appear- 
ance idolatrous, are never worshipped. The household 
furniture of the Tembe differs little from that described 
in the villages generally. The large sloping Kitanda, 
or bedstead of peeled tree-branch, supported by forked 



Digitized by Google 



THE VILLAGE " PUBLIC." 



27 



sticks, and provided with a bedding of mat and cow- 
hide, occupies the greater part of the outer room. The 
triangle of clay cones forming the hearth are generally 
placed for light near the wall-side opposite the front door; 
and the rest of the supellex consists of large stationary 
bark cornbins, of gourds and bandboxes slung from the 
roof, earthen-pots of black clay, huge ladles, pipes, 
grass-mats, grinding-stones, and arms hung to a 
trimmed and branchy tree trunk planted upright in 
a corner. The rooms are divided by party walls, 
which, except when separating families, seldom reach 
to the ceiling. The fireplace acts as lamp by night, 
and the door is the only chimney. 

The characteristic of the Mnyamwezi village is the 
" Iwanza" — a convenience resulting probably from the 
instinct of the sexes, who prefer not to mingle, and for 
the greater freedom of life and manners. Of these 
buildings there are two in every settlement, generally 
built at opposite sides, fronting the normal Mrimba-tree, 
which sheds its filmy shade over the public court-yard. 
That of the women, being a species of harem, was not 
visited ; as travellers and strangers are always admitted 
into the male Iwanza, it is more readily described. This 
public-house is a large hut, somewhat more substantial 
than those adjoining, often smeared with smooth clay, 
and decorated here and there with broad columns of the 
ovals before described, and the prints of palms dipped 
in ashes and placed flat like the hands in ancient Egyp- 
tian buildings. The roof is generally a flying thatch 
raised a foot above the walls — an excellent plan for 
ventilation in these regions. Outside, the Iwanza is 
defended against the incursions of cattle by roughly- 
barked trunks of trees resting upon stout uprights : in 
this space men sit, converse, and smoke. The two 



Digitized by Google 



28 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



doorways are protected by rude charms suspended from 
the lintel, hares' tails, zebras' manes, goats' horns, and 
other articles of prophylactic virtue. Inside, half the 
depth is appropriated to the Ubiri, a huge standing 
bedframe, formed, like the plank-benches of a civilised 
guard-room, by sleepers lying upon horizontal cross- 
bars : these are supported by forked trunks about two 
feet long planted firmly in the ground. The floor is of 
tamped earth. The furniture of the Iwdnzd consists 
of a hearth and grinding-stone ; spears, sticks, arrows, 
and shillelaghs are stuck to smoke in the dingy rafter 
ceiling, or are laid upon hooks of crooked wood de- 
pending from the sooty cross-beams: the corners are 
occupied by bellows, elephant-spears, and similar arti- 
cles. In this " public " the villagers spend their days, 
and often, even though married, their nights, gambling, 
eating, drinking pombe, smoking bhang and tobacco, 
chatting, and sleeping like a litter of puppies destitute 
of clothing, and using one another's backs, breasts, and 
stomachs as pillows. The Iwanzd appears almost pe- 
culiar to Unyamwezi . 

In Unyamwezi the sexes do not eat together : even 
the boys would disdain to be seen sitting at meat with 
their mothers. The men feed either in their cottages 
or more generally in the Iwanza : they make, when they 
can, two meals during the day — in the morning, a 
breakfast, which is often omitted for economy, and a 
dinner about 3 p.m. During the interim they chew to- 
bacco, and, that failing, indulge in a quid of clay. It pro- 
bably contains some animal matter, but the chief reason 
for using it is apparently the necessity to barbarians of 
whiling away the time when not sleeping by exercising 
their jaws. They prefer the " sweet earth," that is to 
say, the clay of ant-hills : the Arabs have tried it with- 



Digitized by 



FOOD PREJUDICES. 



'29 



out other effects but nausea. The custom, however, 
is not uncommon upon both coasts of Africa : it takes, 
in fact, the place of the mastic of Chios, the kat of 
Yemen, the betel and toasted grains of India and the 
farther East, and the ashes of the Somali country. The 
Wanyamwezi, and indeed the East- African tribes gene- 
rally, have some curious food prejudices. Before their 
closer intercourse with the Arabs they used to keep 
poultry, but, like the Gallas and the Somal, who look 
upon the fowl as a kind of vulture, they would not eat 
it: even in the present day they avoid eggs. Some 
will devour animals that have died of disease, and 
carrion, — the flesh of lions and leopards, elephants and 
rhinoceroses, asses, wild cats and rats, beetles and white 
ants ; — others refuse to touch mutton or clean water- 
fowl, declaring that it is not their custom. The pre- 
judice has not, however, been reduced to a system, as 
amongst the tribes of southern Africa. They rarely 
taste meat except upon the march, where the prospect 
of gain excites them to an unusual indulgence : when 
a bullock is killed, they either jerk the meat, or dry it 
upon a dwarf platform of sticks raised above a slow 
and smoky fire, after which it will keep for some days. 
The usual food is the ugali or porridge of boiled flour: 
they find, however, a variety of edible herbs in the 
jungle, and during the season they luxuriate upon 
honey and sour milk. No Mnyamwezi, however, will 
own to repletion unless he has " sat upon pombe," — 
in other words, has drunk to intoxication ; and the 
chiefs pride themselves upon living entirely upon beef 
and stimulants. 

The Wanyamwezi have won for themselves a repu- 
tation by their commercial industry. Encouraged by 
the merchants, they are the only professional porters of 



Digitized by Google 



30 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



East Africa ; and even amongst them, the Wakalaganza, 
Wasumbwa, and Wasukuma are the only tribes who 
regularly visit the coast in this capacity. They are now 
no longer "honest and civil to strangers" — semi-civi- 
lisation has hitherto tended to degradation. They seem 
to have learned but little by their intercourse with the 
Arabs. Commerce with them is still in its infancy. 
They have no idea of credit, although in Karagwah 
and the northern kingdoms payment may be delayed 
for a period of two years. They cannot, like some of 
their neighbours, bargain : a man names the article 
which he requires, and if it be not forthcoming he will 
take no other. The porters, who linger upon the coast 
or in the island of Zanzibar, either cut grass for asses, 
carry stones and mortar to the town, for which they 
receive a daily hire of from two to eight pice, or they 
obtain from the larger landholders permission to reclaim 
and cultivate a plot of ground for vegetables and 
manioc. They have little of the literature, songs and 
tales, common amongst barbarians; and though they 
occasionally indulge in speeches, they do not, like many 
kindred tribes, cultivate eloquence. On the march they 
beguile themselves with chanting for hours together 
half a dozen words eternally repeated. Their language 
is copious but confused, and they are immoderately fond 
of simple and meaningless syllables used as interjec- 
tions. Their industry is confined to weaving coarse 
cloths of unbleached cotton, neatly-woven baskets, 
wooden milk-bowls, saddle-bags for their asses, and 
arms. They rear asses and load them lightly when 
travelling to the coast, but they have not yet learned to 
ride them. Though they carefully fence and ditch 
their fields, they have never invented a plough, con- 
fining themselves to ridging the land with the laborious 



Digitized by Google 



FUNDIKIRA, CniEP OF UNYAMWEZI. 31 

hoe. They rarely sell one another, nor do they much 
encourage the desertion of slaves. The wild bondsman, 
when running away, is sometimes appropriated by his 
captor, but a Muwallid or domestic slave is always re- 
stored after a month or two. The Arabs prefer to 
purchase men sold under suspicion of magic ; they 
rarely flee, fearing lest their countrymen should put 
them to death. 

As has been said, the government of Unyamwezi is 
conducted by a multitude of petty chiefs. The ruling 
classes are thus called : Mtemi or Mwarae is the chief 
or sultan, Mg&we (in the plural Wagawe) the principal 
councillor, and Manacharo, or Mnyapara (plural Wa- 
nyapard) the elder. The ryots or subjects on the other 
hand are collectively styled Wasengi. The most 
powerful chiefs are Fundikira of Unyanyembe, Masanga 
of Msene, and Kafrira of Kirira. The dignity of Mtemi 
is hereditary. He has power of life and death over his 
subjects, and he seldom condescends to any but mortal 
punishment. His revenue is composed of additions to 
his private property by presents from travellers, confis- 
cation of effects in cases of felony or magic, by the sale 
of subjects, and by treasure trove. Even if a man kill 
his own slave, the slave's effects lapse to the ruler. 
The villagers must give up all ivory found in the 
jungles, although the hunters are allowed to retain the 
tusks of the slaughtered animals. 

A few brief remarks concerning Fundikira, the chief 
of Unyamwezi in 1858, may serve to illustrate the con- 
dition of the ruling class in Unyamwezi. This chief 
was travelling towards the coast as a porter in a caravan, 
when he heard of his father's death : he at once stacked 
his load and prepared to return home and rule. The 
rest of the gang, before allowing him to depart, taunted 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



him severely, exclaiming, partly in jest, partly in 
earnest, " Ah ! now thou art still our comrade, but 
presently thou wilt torture and slay, fine and flog us." 
Fundikira proceeding to his native country inherited, 
as is the custom, all his father's property and widows ; 
he fixed himself at Ititenya, presently numbered 
ten wives, who have borne him only three children, 
built 300 houses for his slaves and dependants, and 
owned 2000 head of cattle. He lived in some state, 
declining to call upon strangers, and, though not de- 
manding still obtaining large presents. Becoming 
obese by age and good living, he fell ill in the autumn 
of 1858, and, as usual, his relations were suspected of 
compassing his end by Uchawi, or black magic. In 
these regions the death of one man causes many. The 
Mganga was summoned to apply the usual ordeal. 
After administering a mystic drug, he broke the neck of 
a fowl, and splitting it into two lengths inspected the 
interior. If blackness or blemish appear about the 
wings, it denotes the treachery of children, relations and 
kinsmen ; the backbone convicts the mother and grand- 
mother ; the tail shows that the criminal is the wife, 
the thighs the concubines, and the injured shanks or 
feet the other slaves. Having fixed upon the class of 
the criminals, they are collected together by the 
Mganga, who, after similarly dosing a second hen, 
throws her up into the air above the heads of the crowd 
and singles out the person upon whom she alights. 
Confession is extorted by tying the thumb backwards 
till it touches the wrist or by some equally barbarous 
mode of question. The consequence of condemnation 
is certain and immediate death ; the mode is chosen by 
the Mganga. Some are speared, others are beheaded or 
" ammazati," — clubbed : — a common way is to bind the 



Digitized by 



MAGICIANS TORTURED. 33 

cranium between two stiff pieces of wood which are 
gradually tightened by cords till the brain bursts out 
from the sutures. For women they practise a pecu- 
liarly horrible kind of impalement. These atrocities 
continue until the chief recovers or dies : at the com- 
mencement of his attack, in one household eighteen 
souls, male and female, had been destroyed ; should 
his illness be protracted, scores will precede him to 
the grave, for the Mchawi or magician must surely 
die. 

The Wanyamwezi will generally sell their criminals 
and captives ; when want drives, they part with their 
wives, their children, and even their parents. For 
economy, they import their serviles from Ujiji and the 
adjoining regions ; from the people lying towards the 
south-east angle of the Tanganyika Lake, as the 
Wafipa, the Wapoka, and the Wagara ; and from the 
Nyanza races, and the northern kingdoms of Karagwah, 
Uganda, and Unyoro. 



VOL. II. D 



Digitized by Google 



My Teu»be uear the Tanganyika. 



CHAP. XIII. 

AT LENGTH WE SIGHT THE LAKE TANGANYIKA, THE " SEA OF 

UJIJI." * 

The route before us lay through a howling wilderness, 
once populous and fertile, but now laid waste by the 
fierce Watuta. Snay bin Amir had warned me that 
it would be our greatest trial of patience. The march 
began badly : Mpete, the district on the right bank of 
the Malagarazi River, is highly malarious, and the 
mosquitoes feasted right royally upon our life, even 
during the day-time. We bivouacked under a shady 
tree, within sight of the ferry, not knowing that upon 
the woody eminences above the valley there are usually 
fine kraals of dry grass and of mkora or myombo-bark. 
During the rainy monsoon the best encampments in 

Digitized by Google 



DARK-BOOTH IKS. 



these regions are made of tree-sheets: two parallel 
rings are cut in the bole, at a distance of six to seven 
feet ; a perpendicular slit then connects them, the bark 
is easily stripped off, and the trunk, after having been 
left for a time to season, is filled for use. 

On the 5th of February we set out betimes, across a 
route traversing for a short distance swampy ground 
along the river-side. It then stretched over jungly 
and wooded hill-spires, with steep rough ascents and 
descents, divided from neighbouring elevations by slip- 
pery mire-runs. Exposed to the full break of the rainy 
monsoon, and the frequent outbursts of fiery sun, I 
could not but admire the marvellous fertility of the 
soil ; an impervious luxuriance of vegetation veils the 
lowlands, clothes the hill-sides, and caps their rounded 
summits. After marching five hours and twenty 
minutes, we found a large kraal in the district of 
Kinawani: the encamping ground, — partially cleared 
of the thick, fetid, and putrescent vegetation around, 
— hugs the right bank of the Malagarazi, and faces 
the village of Sultan Mzogera on the southern or 
opposite side. A small store of provisions — grain 
and sweet-potatoes — was purchased from the vil- 
lagers of Kinawani, who flocked across the stream 
to trade. They were, however, fanciful in their 
requirements: beads, especially the coral porcelain, 
iron- wire, salt, and meat. The heaviness of this march 
caused two of the Hammals engaged at Usagozi to 
levant, and the remaining four to strike work. It was 
therefore again necessary to mount ass — ten days after 
an attack of " paraplegia ! " 

We. left Kinawani on the next morning, and striking 
away from the river we crossed rugged and rolling 
ground, divided by deep swamps of mire and grass. 

i> 2 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE BEC.IOXS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



To the southward ran the stream, rushing violently 
down a rocky bed, with tall trees lining its banks. 
Sailing before the morning east- wind, a huge mass of 
nimbus occupied the sky, and presently discharged 
itself in an unusually heavy downfall : during the 
afternoon the breeze veered as usual to the west, and 
the hot sunshine was for once enjoyable. After a 
weary trudge of five hours and twenty minutes, we 
entered a large and comfortable kraal, situated near a 
reach where the swift and turbid river foamed over a 
discontinuous ledge of rock, between avenues of dense 
and tangled jungle. No provisions were procurable at 
this place ; man appeared to have become extinct. 

The 7th of February led us over broken ground, 
encumbered by forest, and cut by swamps, with higher 
levels on the right hand, till we again fell into the 
marshes and fields of the river-valley. The district on 
the other side of the river, called Jambeho, is one of 
the most flourishing in Uvinza; its villages of small 
bird-nest huts, and its carefully hoed fields of grain and 
sweet- potato, affected the eye, after the dreary monotony 
of a jungle-march, like the glimmer of a light at the 
end of a night-march, or the discovery of land at the ' 
conclusion of a long sea- voyage. The village ferry was 
instantly put into requisition, and the chief, Ruwere, 
after receiving as his " dash " eight cloths, allowed us to 
purchase provisions. At that season, however, the 
harvest of grain and sweet-potatoes had not been got 
in, and for their single old hen the people demanded an 
exorbitant price. We hastened, despite all difficulties, 
to escape from this place of pestilence, which clouds 
of mosquitoes rendered as uncomfortable as it was 
dangerous. 

The next day ushered in our departure with drizzling 



Digitized 



THE SALT TRADE. 37 

rain, which drenched the slippery paths of red clay ; the 
asses, wild with wind and weather, exposed us to acci- 
dents in a country of deep ravines and rugged boulders. 
Presently diverging from the Malagarazi, we passed over 
the brow of a low tree-clad hill above the junction of 
the Rusugi River, and followed the left bank of this 
tributary as far as its nearer ford. The Rusugi which 
drains the northern highlands into the Malagarazi, was 
then about 100 yards in width : the bottom is a red 
ochreish soil, the strong stream, divided in the centre by 
a long low strip of sand and gravel, flowed at that time 
breast-deep, and its banks,— as usual with rivers in these 
lands,— deeply cut by narrow watercourses, rendered 
travelling unusually toilsome. At the Rusugi Ford the 
road separates into a northern and a southern branch, 
a hill-spur forming the line of demarcation. The 
northern strikes off to the district of Parugerero on the 
left bank, where a shallower ford is found : the place in 
question is a settlement of Wavinza, containing from 
forty to fifty bee-hive huts, tenanted by salt-diggers. 
The principal pan is sunk in the vicinity of the river, 
the saline produce, after being boiled down in the huts, 
is piled up, and handmade into little cones. The pan 
affords tripartite revenue to three sultans, and it con- 
stitutes the principal wealth of the Wavinza : the salt 
here sold for one shukkah per masuta, or half-load, and 
far superior to the bitter, nitrous produce of Ugogo, 
finds its way throughout the heart of Africa, supplying 
the lands adjoining both the Tanganyika and' the 
Nyanza Lakes. 

We followed the southern line which crosses the 
Rusugi River at the branch islet. Fords are always 
picturesque. The men seemed to enjoy the washing ; 
their numbers protected them from the crocodiles, 

D 3 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



which fled from their shouting and splashing ; and 
they even ventured into deep water, where swimming 
was necessary. We crossed as usual on a " unicorn " of 
negroids, the upper part of the body supported by two 
men, and the feet resting upon the shoulders of a third, 
— a posture somewhat similar to that affected by 
gentlemen who find themselves unable to pull off their 
own boots. Then remounting, we ascended the grassy 
rise on the right of the stream, struggled, slipped, and 
slided over a muddy swamp, climbed up a rocky and 
bushy ridge, and found ourselves ensconced in a ragged 
and comfortless kraal upon the western slopes, within 
sight of some deserted salt-pans below. As evening drew 
in, it became apparent that the Goanese Gaetano, the five 
Wak'hutu porters, and Sarmalla, a donkey-driving son 
of Ramji, had remained behind, in company with 
several loads, the tent, two bags of clothes, my com- 
panion^ elephant-gun, my bedding, and that of my 
servant. It was certain that with this provision in the 
vicinity of Parugerero they would not starve, and the 
porters positively refused to halt an hour more than 
necessary. I found it therefore compulsory to advance. 
On the 11th February three "children" of Said bin 
Saliin consented, as usual, for a consideration, to return 
and to bring up the laggers, and about a week after- 
wards they entered Ujiji without accident. The five 
Wak'hutu porters, probably from the persuasions of 
Muinyi Wazira, had, although sworn to fidelity with the 
strongest oaths, carried into execution a long-organised 
plan of desertion. Gaetano refused to march on the 
day of our separation, because he was feverish, and he 
expected a riding-ass to be sent back for him. He 
brought up our goods safely, but blankets, towels, and 
many articles of clothing belonging to his companion, 



FRESH DESERTION'S. 



had disappeared. This difficulty was, of course, attri- 
buted to the Wak'hutu porters ; probably the missing 
things had been sold for food by the Goanese and 
the son of Ramji: I could not therefore complain of 
the excuse. 

From the Msawahili Fundi, — fattore, manciple or stew- 
ard — of a small caravan belonging to an Arab merchant, 
Hamid bin Sulayyam, I purchased for thirty-five cloths, 
about thrice its value, a little single-fold tent of thin 
American domestics, through which sun and rain pene- 
trated with equal facility. Like the cloth-houses of the 
Arab travellers generally, it was gable-shaped, six or 
seven feet high, about eight feet long by four broad, 
and so light that with its bamboo-poles and its pegs it 
scarcely formed a load for a man. On the 9 th February, 
we descended from the ridge upon which the kraal was 
placed, and traversed a deep swamp of black mud, dotted 
in the more elevated parts with old salt pans and pits, 
where broken pottery and blackened lumps of clay still 
showed traces of human handiwork. Beyond this low- 
land, the track, striking off from the river-valley and 
turning to the right, entered toilsome ground. We 
crossed deep and rocky ravines, with luxuriant vege- 
tation above, and with rivulets at the bottom trickling 
towards the Malagarazi, by scrambling down and swarm- 
ing up the roughest steps of rock, boulder, and knotted 
tree-root. Beyond these difficulties lay woody and 
stony hills, whose steep and slippery inclines wore 
divided by half a dozen waters, all more or less trouble- 
some to cross. The porters, who were in a place of 
famine, insisted upon pushing on to the utmost of their 
strength : after six hours' inarch, I persuaded them to 
halt in the bush upon a rocky hill, where the neigh- 
bouring descent supplied water. The Fundi visited 

D 4 



Digitized by Google 



40 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the valley of the Rusugi River, and finding a herd of 
the Mbogo or Bos Caffer, brought home a welcome addi- 
tion to our well-nigh exhausted rations. 

The 10th February saw us crossing the normal 
sequence of jungly and stony " neat's-tongues," divided 
by deep and grassy swamps, which, stagnant in the dry 
weather, drain after rains the northern country to the 
Malagarazi River. We passed over by a felled tree- 
trunk an unfordable rivulet, hemmed in by a dense and 
fetid thicket; and the asses summarily pitched down 
the muddy bank into the water, swam across and 
wriggled up the slimy off-side like cats. Thence a foul 
swamp of black mire led to the Ruguvu or Luguvu 
River, the western boundary of Uvinza and the eastern 
frontier of Ukaranga. This stream, which can be 
forded during the dry season, had spread out after the 
rains over its borders of grassy plain ; we were de- 
layed till the next morning in a miserable camping 
ground, a mud-bank thinly veiled with vegetation, in 
order to bridge it with branching trees. An unusual 
downfall during the night might have caused serious 
consequences ; — provisions had now disappeared, more- 
over the porters considered the place dangerous. 

The 10th February began with the passage of the 
Ruguvu River, where again our goods and chattels were 
fated to be thoroughly sopped. I obtained a few corn- 
cobs from a passing caravan of Wanyamwezi, and charged 
them with meat and messages for the party left behind. 
A desert march, similar to the stage last travelled, led us 
to the Unguwwe or Uvungwe River, a shallow, muddy 
stream, girt in as usual by dense vegetation ; and we 
found a fine large kraal on its left bank. After a cold 
and rainy night, we resumed our march by fording the 
Unguwwe. Then came the weary toil of fighting through 



Digitized by 



THE WEARY MARCH. 



41 



tiger and 8pear-grass, with reeds, rushes, a variety of 
ferns, before unseen, and other lush and lusty growths, 
clothing a succession of rolling hills, monotonous swell- 
ings, where the descent was ever a reflection of the 
ascent. The paths were broken, slippery, and pitted 
with deep holes ; along their sides, where the ground 
lay exposed to view, a conglomerate of ferruginous red 
clay — suggesting a resemblance to the superficies of 
Londa, as described by Dr. Livingstone — took the place 
of the granites and sandstones of the eastern countries, 
and the sinking of the land towards the Lake became 
palpable. In the jungle were extensive clumps of 
bamboo and rattan ; the former small, the latter of poor 
quality; the bauhinia, or black- wood, and the salsa- 
parilla vine abounded ; wild grapes of diminutive size, 
and of the austerest flavour, appeared for the first time 
upon the sunny hill- sides which Bacchus ever loves, 
and in the lower swamps plantains grew almost wild. 
In parts the surface was broken into small deep hollows, 
from which sprang pyramidal masses of the hugest 
trees. Though no sign of man here met the eye, 
scattered fields and plantations showed that villages 
must be somewhere near. Sweet water was found in 
narrow courses of black mud, which sorely tried the 
sinews of laden man and beast. Long after noon, we 
saw the caravan halted by fatigue upon a slope beyond 
a weary swamp: a violent storm was brewing, and 
whilst half the sky was purple black with nimbus, the 
sun shone stingingly through the clear portion of the 
empyrean. But these small troubles were lightly 
borne ; already in the far distance appeared walls of 
sky-blue cliff with gilded summits, which were as a 
beacon to the distressed mariner. 

On the 13th February we resumed our travel through 



Digitized by Google 



42 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

screens of lofty grass, which thinned out into a strag- 
gling forest. After about an hour's march, as we 
entered a small savannah, I saw the Fundi before al- 
luded to running forward and changing the direction 
of the caravan. Without supposing that he had taken 
upon himself this responsibility, I followed him. Pre- 
sently he breasted a steep and stony hill, sparsely clad 
with thorny trees : it was the death of my companion's 
riding-ass. Arrived with toil, — for our fagged beasts 
now refused to proceed, — we halted for a few minutes 
upon the summit. "What is that streak of light 
which lies below?" I inquired of Seedy Bombay. "I 
am of opinion," quoth Bombay, "that that is the water." 
I gazed in dismay ; the remains of my blindness, the 
veil of trees, and a broad ray of sunshine illuminating 
but one reach of the Lake, had shrunk its fair pro- 
portions. Somewhat prematurely I began to lament 
my folly in having risked life and lost health for so 
poor a prize, to curse Arab exaggeration, and to propose 
an immediate return, with the view of exploring the 
Nyanza, or Northern Lake. Advancing, however, a few 
yards, the whole scene suddenly burst upon my view, 
tilling me with admiration, wonder, and delight. It 
gave local habitation to the poet's fancy : — 

"Trcmolavano i rai del Sol nascente 

Sovra 1' onde del mar purpuree e d' oro, 
E in vestc di zaffiro il ciel ridente 

Specchiar parea le sue bellezze in loro. 
D' Africa i venti fieri e d' Oriente, 

Sovra il letto del mar, prendean ristoro, 
E co' sospiri suoi soavi c lieti 
Col Zeffiro increspava il lembo a Teti." 

Nothing, in sooth, could be more picturesque than this 
first view of the Tanganyika Lake, as it lay in the lap 



Digitized by 



FIRST VIEW OF THE TANGANYIKA LAKE. 43 

of the mountains, basking in the gorgeous tropical sun- 
shine. Below and beyond- a short foreground of rugged 
and precipitous hill-fold, down which the foot-path 
zigzags painfully, a narrow strip of emerald green, never 
sere and marvellously fertile, shelves towards a ribbon 
of glistening yellow sand, here bordered by sedgy rushes, 
there cleanly and clearly cut by the breaking wavelets. 
Further in front stretch the waters, an expanse of the 
lightest and softest blue, in breadth varying from thirty 
to thirty-five miles, and sprinkled by the crisp east- 
wind with tiny crescents of snowy foam. The back- 
ground in front is a high and broken wall of steel- 
coloured mountain, here flecked and capped with pearly 
mist, there standing sharply pencilled against the azure 
air; its yawning chasms, marked by a deeper plum- 
colour, fall towards dwarf hills of mound-like propor- 
tions, which apparently dip their feet in the wave. 
To the south, and opposite the long low point, behind 
which the Malagarazi River discharges the red loam 
suspended in its violent stream, lie the bluff headlands 
and capes of Uguhha, and, as the eye dilates, it falls 
upon a cluster of outlying islets, speckling a sea-horizon. 
Villages, cultivated lands, the frequent canoes of the 
fishermen on the waters, and on a nearer approach the 
murmurs of the waves breaking upon the shore, give a 
something of variety, of movement, of life to the land- 
scape, which, like all the fairest prospects in these re- 
gions, wants but a little of the neatness and finish of Art, 
— mosques and kiosks, palaces and villas, gardens and 
orchards — contrasting with the profuse lavishness 
and magnificence of nature, and diversifying the un- 
broken coup (Tceil of excessive vegetation, to rival, if not 
to excel, the most admired scenery of the classic 
regions. The riant shores of this vast crevasse ap- 



Digitized by Google 



44 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

peared doubly beautiful to me after the silent and 
spectral mangrove-creeks on the East-African sea- 
board, and the melancholy, monotonous experience of 
desert and jungle scenery, tawny rock and sun-parched 
plain or rank herbage and flats of black mire. Truly it 
was a revel for soul and sight! Forgetting toils, 
dangers, and the doubtfulness of return, I felt willing 
to endure double what I had endured ; and all the 
party seemed to join with me in joy. My purblind 
companion found nothing to grumble at except the 
"mist and glare before his eyes." Said bin Salim 
looked exulting, — he had procured for me this pleasure, 
— the monoculous Jemadar grinned his congratulations, 
and even the surly Baloch made civil salams. 

Arrived at Ukaranga I was disappointed to find there 
a few miserable grass-huts — used as a temporary shelter 
by caravans passing to and from the islets fringing the 
opposite coast — that clustered round a single Tembe,then 
occupied by its proprietor, Hamid bin Sulayyam, an Arab 
trader. Presently the motive of the rascally Fundi, in 
misleading the caravan, which, by the advice of Snay 
bin Amir, I had directed to march upon the Kawele 
district in Ujiji, leaked out. The roadstead of Ukaranga 
is separated from part of Kawele by the line of the Ruche 
River, which empties itself into a deep hollow bay, 
whose chord, extending from N.W. to S.E., is five or 
six miles in length. The strip of shelving plain between 
the trough-like hills and the lake is raised but a few feet 
above water-level. Converted by the passage of a 
hundred drains from the highlands, into a sheet of 
sloppy and slippery mire, breast deep in select places, it 
supports with difficulty a few hundred inhabitants: 
drenched with violent rain-storms and clammy dews, it 
is rife in fevers, and it is feared by travellers on ac- 
count of its hippopotami and crocodiles. In the driest 



EXTORTION AT UKARANGA. 



45 



season the land -road is barely practicable ; during and 
after the wet monsoon the lake affords the only means 
of passage, and the port of Ukaranga contains not a 
single native canoe. The Fundi, therefore, wisely de- 
termined that I should spend beads for rations and 
lodgings amongst his companions, and be heavily 
mulcted for a boat by them. Moreover, he instantly 
sent word to Mnya Mtaza, the principal headman of 
Ukaranga, who, as usual with the Lakist chiefs, lives in 
the hills at some distance from the water, to come 
instanter for his Honga or blackmail, as, no fresh fish 
being procurable, the Wazungu were about to depart. 
The latter manoeuvre, however, was frustrated by my 
securing a conveyance for the morrow. It was an open 
solid-built Arab craft, capable of containing thirty to 
thirty-five men; it belonged to an absent merchant, Said 
bin Usman-; it was in point of size the second on the 
Tanganyika, and being too large for paddling, its crew 
rowed instead of scooping up the water like the natives. 
The slaves, who had named four khcte of coral beads as 
the price of a bit of sun-dried "baccala," and five as 
the hire of a foul hovel for one night, demanded four 
cloths — at least the price of the boat — for conveying the 
party to Kawele, a three hours' trip. I gave them 
ten cloths and two coil-bracelets, or somewhat more 
than the market value of the whole equipage, — a 
fact which I effectually used as an argumentum ad 
verecundiam. 

At eight a.m., on the 1 4th February, we began coasting 
along the eastern shore of the lake in a north-westerly 
direction, towards the Kawele district, in the land of 
Ujiji. The view was exceedingly beautiful : 

M ... the flat sea shone like yellow gold 
Fused in the sun," 



Digitized by Google 



4G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and the picturesque and varied forms of the mountains, 
rising above and dipping into the lake, were clad in 
purplish blue, set off by the rosy tints of morning. 
Yet, more and more, as we approached our destination, 
I wondered at the absence of all those features which 
prelude a popular settlement. Passing the low, muddy, 
and grass-grown mouth of the Ruche River, I could 
descry on the banks nothing but a few scattered hovels 
of miserable construction, surrounded by fields of sor- 
ghum and sugar-cane, and shaded by dense groves of 
the dwarf, bright-green plantain, and the tall, sombre 
elajis or Guinea-palm. By the Arabs I had been 
taught to expect a town, a ghaut, a port, and a bazar, 
excelling in size that of Zanzibar, and I had old, pre- 
conceived ideas concerning "die Stadt Ujiji," whose 
sire was the " Mombas Mission Map." Presently Mam- 
moth and Behemoth shrank timidly from exposure, and 
a few hollowed logs, the monoxyles of the fishermen, 
the wood-cutters, and the market-people, either cut the 
water singly, or stood in crowds drawn up on the 
patches of yellow sand. About 1 1 a.m. the craft was 
poled through a hole in a thick welting of coarse reedy 
grass and flaggy aquatic plants to a level landing-place 
of flat shingle, where the water shoaled off rapidly. 
Such was the ghaut or disembarkation quay of the 
great Ujiji. 

Around the ghaut a few scattered huts, in the 
humblest bee-hive shape, represented the port-town. 
Advancing some hundred yards through a din of shouts 
and screams, tom-toms and trumpets, which defies de- 
scription, and mobbed by a swarm of black beings, whose 
eyes seemed about to start from their heads with sur- 
prise, I passed a relic of Arab civilisation, the " Bazar." 
It is a plot of higher ground, cleared of grass, and 



Digitized by 



WE ENTER UJIJI. 



47 



flanked by a crooked tree ; there, between 10 a.m. 
and 3 p.m. — weather permitting — a mass of standing 
and squatting negroes buy and sell, barter and ex- 
change, offer and chaffer with a hubbub heard for miles, 
and there a spear or dagger-thrust brings on, by no 
means unfrequently, a skirmishing faction-fight. The 
articles exposed for sale are sometimes goats, sheep, and 
poultry, generally fish, vegetables, and a few fruits, 
plantains, and melons ; palm-wine is a staple commodity, 
and occasionally an ivory or a slave is hawked about : 
those industriously disposed employ themselves during 
the intervals of bargaining in spinning a coarse yarn 
with the rudest spindle, or in picking the cotton, which 
is placed in little baskets on the ground. I was led to a 
ruinous Tembe, built by an Arab merchant, Hamid bin 
Salim, who had allowed it to be tenanted by ticks and 
slaves. Situated, however, half a mile from, and 
backed by, the little village of Kawele, whose mushroom- 
huts barely protruded their summits above the dense 
vegetation, and placed at a similar distance from the 
water in front, it had the double advantage of proxi- 
mity to provisions, and of a view which at first was 
highly enjoyable. The Tanganyika is ever seen to ad- 
vantage from its shores: upon its surface the sight 
wearies with the unvarying tintage — all shining greens 
and hazy blues — whilst continuous parallels of lofty 
hills, like the sides of a huge trough, close the prospect 
and suggest the idea of confinement. 

And now, lodged with comparative comfort, in the 
cool Tembe, I will indulge in a few geographical and 
ethnological reminiscences of the country lately tra- 
versed. 

The fifth region includes the alluvial valley of the 
Malagarazi River, which subtends the lowest spires of the 



Digitized by Google 



48 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Highlands of Karagwah and Urundi, the western pro- 
longation of the chain which has obtained, probably 
from African tradition, the name of " Lunar Mountains." 
In length, it extends from the Malagarazi Ferry in E. 
Lat. 31° 10' to the Tanganyika Lake, in E. Long. 30° 1'. 
Its breadth, from S. Lat. 3° 14', the supposed northern 
limit of Urundi, to S. Lat. 5° 2' ; the parallel of 
Ukaranga is a distance of 108 rectilinear geographical 
miles. Native caravans pass from the Malagarazi to 
Ujiji in eight days, usually without halting till arrived 
within a stone's throw of their destination. To a region 
of such various elevations it would be difficult to assign 
an average of altitude; the heights observed by ther- 
mometer never exceeded 1850 feet. 

This country contains in due order, from east to west, 
the lands of Uvinza, Ubuha, and Ujiji : on the northern 
edge is Uhha, and on the south-western extremity 
Ukaranga. The general features are those of the 
alluvial valleys of the Kingani and the Mgeta Rivers. 
The soil in the vicinity of the Malagarazi is a rich brown 
or black loam, rank with vegetable decay. This strip 
along the stream varies in breadth from one to five 
miles ; on the right bank it is mostly desert, but not 
sterile, on the left it is an expanse of luxuriant cultiva- 
tion. The northern boundary is a jagged line of hill- 
spurs of primitive formation, rough with stones and 
yawning with ravines : in many places the projections 
assume the form of green "dogs' tails," or "neat's 
tongues," projecting like lumpy ridges into the card- 
table-like level of the river-land southwards. Each 
mound or spur is crowned with a tufty clump, prin- 
cipally of bauhinias and mimosas, and often a lone, 
spreading and towering tree, a Borassus or a Calabash, 
ornamenting the extreme point, forms a landmark for 



Digitized by 



GEOCiIUTIIY OF UVl.VZA. 



40 



the caravan. The sides of these hills, composed of 
hornblende and gneissic rock, quartzite, quartz-grit, 
and ferruginous gritstone, are steep, rugged, and thick- 
ly wooded, and one slope generally reflects the other, — 
if muddy, muddy ; and if stony, stony. Each " hanger," 
or wave of ground, is divided from its neighbour 
by a soft sedgy valley, bisected by a network of stag- 
nant pools. Here and there are nullahs, with high 
stiff earthbanks for the passage of rain torrents. The 
grass stands in lofty screens, and the path leads over a 
matted mass of laid stalks which cover so closely the 
thick mud that loaded asses do not sink ; this vegetation 
is burned down during the hot season, and a few showers 
bring up an emerald crop of young blades, sprouting 
phoenix-like from the ashes of the dead. The southern 
boundary of the valley is more regular ; in the eastern 
parts is an almost tabular wall of rock, covered even to 
the crest with shrub and tree. 

.As is proved by the regular course of the Malagarazi 
River, the westward decline of the country is gentle : 
along the road, however, the two marches nearest to the 
Tanganyika Lake appear to sink more rapidly than those 
preceding them. The main drain receives from the north- 
ern hill-spurs a multitude of tributaries, which convey 
their surplus moisture into the great central reservoir. 

Under the influence of the two great productive 
powers in nature — heat and moisture — the wondrous 
fertility of the soil, which puts forth where uncleared a 
rank jungle of nauseous odour, renders the climate dan- 
gerous. The rains divide the year into two unequal 
portions of eight and four months, namely, the wet 
monsoon, which commences with violence in September 
and ends in May, and the dry hot weather which rounds 
off the year. The showers fall, as in Zanzibar, uncon- 
VOL. II. E 



Digitized by Google 



50 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tinuously, with breaks varying from a few hours to 
several days; unlike those of Zanzibar, they are gene- 
rally accompanied by violent discharges of electricity. 
Lightning from the north, especially at night, is con- 
sidered a sign of approaching foul weather. It would 
be vain to seek in these regions of Central Africa the 
kaskazi and kosi, or regular north-east and south-west 
monsoons, those local modifications of the trade-winds 
which may be traced in regular progress from the centre 
of Equatorial Africa to the Himalayas. The atmo- 
spheric currents deflected from the Atlantic Ocean by 
the coast-radiation and the arid and barren regions of 
Southern Africa are changed in hydrometric condition, 
and are compelled by the chilly and tree-clad heights of 
the Tanganyika Lake, and the low, cold, and river-bearing 
plains lying to the westward, to part with the moisture 
which they have collected in the broad belt of extreme 
humidity lying between the Ngami Lake and the equa- 
tor. When the land has become super-saturated, the 
cold, wet, wind, driving cold masses, surcharged with 
electricity, sets continually eastward, to restore the 
equilibrium in lands still reeking with the torrid blaze, 
and where the atmosphere has been rarified by from four 
to six months of burning suns. At Msene, in Western 
Unyamwezi, the rains break about October ; thence the 
wet monsoon, resuming its eastward course, crosses the 
Land of the Moon, and, travelling by slow stages, arrives 
at the coast in early April. Following the northing 
sun, and deflected to the north-east by the rarified 
atmosphere from the hot, dry surface of the Eastern 
Horn of Africa, the rains reach Western India in June, 
and exhaust themselves in frequent and copious down- 
falls upon the southern versant of the Himalayas. The 
gradual refrigeration of the ground, with the southing of 



Digitized by Google 



THE ORIGIN OP THE S. W. MONSOON-RAIN. 51 

the sun, produces in turn the inverse process, namely, 
the north-east monsoon. About the Tanganyika, how- 
ever, all is variable. The large body of water in the 
central reservoir preserves its equability of tempe- 
rature, while the alternations of chilly cold and potent 
heat, in the high and broken lands around it, cause 
extreme irregularity in the direction of the currents. 
During the rains of 1858 the prevalent winds were 
constantly changing : in the mornings there was almost 
regularly a cool north breeze drawn by the water from 
the heights of Urundi ; in the course of the day it 
varied round towards the south. The most violent 
storms came up from the south-east and the south-west, 
and as often against as with the gale. The long and 
rigorous wet monsoon, broken only by a few scattered 
days of heat, renders the climate exceedingly damp, and 
it is succeeded by a burst of sunshine which dries the 
grass to stubble in a few days. Despite these extremes, 
the climate of Ujiji has the reputation of being com- 
paratively healthy; it owes this probably to the 
refreshing coolness of the nights and mornings. The 
mukunguru, or seasoning-fever of this region, is not 
feared by strangers so much as that of Unyanyembe, 
yet no one exp"ects to escape it. It is a low bilious and 
aguish type, lasting from three to four days : during 
the attack perspiration is induced with difficulty, and it 
often recurs at regular times once a month. 

From the Malagarazi Ferry many lines traverse the 
desert on the right or northern bank of the river, which 
is preferred to the southern, whence the Wavinza 
exclude travellers. Before entering this region caravans 
generally combine, so as to present a formidable front to 
possible foes. The trunk road, called Jambeho, the 

E 2 



Digitized by Google 



52 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



most southerly of the northern routes, has been described 
in detail. 

The district of Ukaranga extends from the Ruguvu 
or the Unguwwe River to the waters of the lake : on 
the south it is bounded by the region of Ut'hongwe, and 
on the north by the Ruche River. This small and 
sluggish stream, when near the mouth, is about forty 
yards in breadth, and, being unfordable at all seasons, 
two or three ferry-boats always ply upon its waters. 
The rauque bellow of the hippopotamus is heard on its 
banks, and the adjacent lowlands are infested by mos- 
quitoes in clouds. The villages of Ukaranga are 
scattered in clumps over the plain — wretched hamlets, 
where a few households live surrounded by rare cul- 
tivation in the drier parts of the swamps. The " port 
of Ukaranga" is an open roadstead, which seldom shows 
even a single canoe. Merchants who possess boats and 
can send for provisions to the islands across the lake 
sometimes prefer, for economy, Ukaranga to Kawele ; 
it is also made a halting-place by those en route to 
Uguhha, who would lose time by visiting Ujiji. The 
land, however, affords no supplies; a bazar is un- 
known ; and the apathetic tribe, who cultivate scarcely 
sufficient grain for themselves, will not' even take the 
trouble to cast a net. Ukaranga sends bamboos, 
rafters for building, and fire-wood, cut in the back- 
ground of highlands, to Kawele and other parts of 
Ujiji, at which places, however, workmen must be hired. 

Ukaranga signifies, etymologicaliy, the "Land of 
Groundnuts." This little district may, in earlier ages, 
have given name to the Mocarangas, Mucarongas, or 
Mucarangas, a nation which, according to the Portuguese 
historians, from Joao dos Sanctos (1586-97) to Don 
Sebastian Xavier Botelho (1835), occupied the country 



THE " MOCARANGAS." 



53 



within the Mozambique, from S. lat. 5° to S. lat. 25°, 
under subjection to the sovereign and the people of 
" Monomotapa." In the absence of history, analogy 
is the only guide. Either, then, the confusion of the 
Tanganyika and the Nyassa Lakes by the old geo- 
graphers, caused them to extend the " Mocarangas " 
up to the northern water — and the grammatical 
error in the word " Mucaranga " justifies some sus- 
picion as to their accuracy — or in the space of three 
centuries the tribe has declined from its former power 
and consequence, or the Wakaranga of the Tanganyika 
are a remnant of the mighty southern nation, which, 
like the Watuta tribe, has of late years been pressed by 
adverse circumstances to the north. Though Senhor 
Botelho, in his 'Memoria Estatisca/ denominates the 
"Monomoczi country" "Western Mucaranga," it is 
certain that no Mnyamwezi in the present day owns to 
connection with a race speaking a different dialect, and 
distant about 200 miles from his frontier. 

The land of Ujiji is bounded on the north by the 
heights of Urundi, and on the south by the Ukaranga 
country: eastward it extends to Ubuha, and westward 
it is washed by the waves of the Tanganyika Lake. On 
its north-east lies the land of Uhha, now reduced by 
the predatory "\V r atuta to a luxuriant desert. 

The head-quarter village of Ujiji was in 1858 Kawele. 
To the westward of this settlement was the district of 
Gungu, facing the islet rock Bangwe. This place was 
deserted by travellers on account of the plundering 
propensities of its former chief. His son "Lurinda," 
however, labours to recover lost ground by courtesy and 
attention to strangers. South-eastwards of Kawele is 
the district of Ugoyye, frequented by the Arabs, 
who find the Sultans Habeyya and Marabu somewhat 

E 3 



Digitized by Google 



54 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

less extortionate than their neighbours. It is a sandy 
spot, clear of white ants, but shut out by villages and 
cultivation from the lovely view of the lake. To one 
standing at Kawele all these districts and villages are 
within two or three miles, and a distant glance discloses 
the possessions of half-a-dozen independent tribes. 

Caravans entering Ujiji from the land side usually 
encamp in the outlying villages on the right or left bank 
of the Ruche, at considerable inconvenience, for some 
days. The origin of this custom appears to date from 
olden time. In East Africa, as a rule, every stranger 
is held to be hostile before he has proved friendly in- 
tentions, and many tribes do not admit him into their 
villages without a special invitation. Thus, even in 
the present day, the visitor in the countries of the 
Soraal and Galla, the Wamasai and the Wakwafi, must 
sit under some tree outside the settlement till a depu- 
tation of elders, after formally ascertaining his purpose, 
escort him to their homes. The modern reason for the 
custom, which prevails upon the coast, as well as on the 
banks of the Tanganyika, is rather commercial than 
political. The caravan halts upon neutral ground, and 
the sultans or chiefs of the different villages send select 
messengers carrying various presents: in the interior 
ivory and slaves, and in the maritime regions cloth and 
provisions, technically called " Magubiko," and intended 
as an earnest of their desire to open trade. Sweet 
words and fair promises win the day ; the Mtongi, or 
head of the caravan, after a week of earnest deliberation 
with all his followers, chooses his host, temporary 
lodgings are provided for the guests, and the value of 
the retaining fees is afterwards recovered in Hongd and 
Kiremba— blackmail and customs. This custom was 
known in Southern Africa by the name of "marts;" 



Digitized by 



DISTA>*CE OP COAST JOURXEY. 



55 



that is, a "connection with a person belonging to 
another nation, so that they reside at each other's houses 
when visiting the place, and make mutual presents." 
The compulsory guest amongst the Arabs of Zanzibar 
and the Somal is called " Nezil." 

At Ujiji terminates, after twelve stages, which native 
caravans generally finish in a fortnight, all halts in- 
cluded, the transit of the fifth region. The traveller 
has now accomplished a total number of 85 long, or 
100 short stages, which, with necessary rests, but 
excluding detentions and long halts, occupy 150 days. 
The direct longitudinal distance from the coast is 540 
geo. miles, which the sinuosities of the road prolong to 
955, or in round numbers 950 stat ute miles. The number 
of days expended by the Expedition in actual marching 
was 100, of hours 420, which gives a rate of 2*27 miles 
per hour. The total time was seven and a-half months, 
• from the 27th June, 1857, to the 18th February, 1858; 
thus the number of the halts exceeded by one-third the 
number of the marches. In practice Arab caravans 
seldom arrive at the Tanganyika, for reasons before 
alluded to, under a total period of six months. Those 
lightly laden may make Unyanyembe in between two 
and a-half and three months, and from Unyanyembe 
Ujiji in twenty-five stages, which would reduce their 
journey to four months. 

Dapper ( * Beschryving van Afrika,' Amst. 1671) 
asserts that the " blacks of Pombo, i. e. the Pombeiros, 
or native travellers of W. Africa, when asked re- 
specting the distance of the lake, say that it is at 
least a sixty days' journey, going constantly east- 
wards." But the total breadth of the continent 
between Mbuamaji and Loanda being, in round num- 
bers, 1560 geographical miles, this estimate would give 

E 4 



Digitized by Google 



56 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

a marching rate of twenty -six geographical and rectili- 
near miles (or, allowing for deviation, thirty-six statute 
miles) per diem. When Da Couto (1565), quoting 
the information procured by Francisco Barreto, during 
his expedition in 1570, from some Moors (Arabs or 
Wasawahili) at Patta and elsewhere, says that "from 
Kilwa or Atondo (that is to say, the country of the 
Watondwe) the other sea of Angola might be reached 
with a journey of fifteen or twenty (150 or 200?) 
leagues," he probably alludes to the Nyassa Lake, lying 
south-westwards of Kilwa, not to the Tanganyika. Mr. 
Oooley gives one itinerary, by Mohammed bin Nasur, an 
old Arab merchant, enumerating seventy-one marches 
from Buromaji (Mbuamaji) to Oha (Uhha), and- a total 
of eighty-three from the coast to the lake ; and a second 
by a native of Monomoezi, Lief bin Said (a misprint for 
Khalaf bin Said?) sixty-two to Ogara (Ugala), which 
is placed four or five days from Oha. In another page 
he remarks that "from Buromaji, near Point Puna, to 
Oha in Monomoezi is a journey of seventy-nine, or, in 
round numbers, eighty days, the shores of the lake 
being still six or eight days distant." This is the 
closest estimate yet made. Mr. Macqueen, from the 
itinerary of Lief bin Said, estimates the lake, from the 
mouth of the river Pangani, at 604 miles, and seventy- 
one days of total march. It is evident, from the pre- 
ceding pages, that African authorities have hitherto 
confounded the Nyanza, the Tanganyika, and the Nyassa 
Lakes. Still, in the estimate of the distance between 
the coast and Ujiji there is a remarkable and a most 
deceptive coherence. 

Ujiji — also called Manyofo, which appears, however, 
peculiar to a certain sultanat or district — is the name 
of a province, not, as has been represented, of a single 



Digitized by Google 



FERTILITY OP UJIJI 



57 



town. It was first visited by the Arabs about 1840; 
ten years after that they had penetrated to Unyamwezi ; 
they found it conveniently situated as a mart upon the 
Tanganyika Lake, and a central point where their dep6ts 
might be established, and whence their factors and slaves 
could navigate the waters, and collect slaves and ivory 
from the tribes upon its banks. But the climate proved 
unhealthy, the people dangerous, and the coasting- 
voyages frequently ended in disaster ; Ujiji, therefore, 
never rose to the rank of Unyanyembe or Msene. At 
present it is visited during the fair season, from May to 
September, by flying caravans, who return to Unyan- 
yembe as soon as they have loaded their porters. 

Abundant humidity and a fertile soil, evidenced by 
the large forest trees and the abundance of ferns, render 
Ujiji the most productive province in this section of 
Africa : vegetables, which must elsewhere be cultivated, 
here seem to flourish almost spontaneously. Rice of 
excellent quality was formerly raised by the Arabs 
upon the shores of the Tanganyika ; it grew luxuriantly, 
attaining, it is said, the height of eight or nine feet. 
The inhabitants, however, preferring sorghum, and 
wearied out by the depredations of the monkey, the 
elephant, and the hippopotamus, have allowed the more 
civilised cereal to degenerate. The principal grains are 
the holcus and the Indian nagli or nanchni (Eleusine 
coracano) ; there is no bajri (panicum or millet) in 
these regions ; the pulses are phaseoli and the voandzeia, 
groundnuts, beans, and haricots of several different 
species. The manioc, egg-plant, and sweet-potato, the 
yam, the cucumber, an edible white fungus growing 
subterraneously, and the Indian variety of the Jeru- 
salem artichoke, represent the vegetables: the people, 
however, unlike the Hindus, despise, and consequently 



Digitized 



68 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

will not be at the pains to cultivate them. Sugar-cane, 
tobacco, and cotton are always purchasable in the bazar. 
The fruits are the plantain and the Guinea-palm. The 
mdizi or plantain-tree is apparently an aborigen of these 
latitudes : in certain parts, as in Usumbara, Karagwah, 
and Uganda, it is the staff of life : in the hilly countries 
there are, it is said, about a dozen varieties, and a 
single bunch forms a load for a man. It is found in 
the island and on the coast of Zanzibar, at K'hutu in 
the head of the alluvial valley, and, though rarely, in the 
mountains of Usagara. The best fruit is that grown 
by the Arabs at Unyanyembe: it is still a poor spe- 
cimen, coarse and insipid, stringy and full of seeds, and 
strangers rarely indulge in it, fearing flatulence. Upon 
the Tanganyika Lake there is a variety called mikono 
t'hembu, or elephant's-hands, which is considerably 
larger than the Indian " horse-plantain." The skin is 
of a brickdust red, in places inclining to rusty-brown ; 
the pulp is a dull yellow, with black seeds, and the 
flavour is harsh, strong, and drug-like. The Elaeis 
Guiniensis, locally called mchikichi, which is known by 
the Arabs to grow in the islands of Zanzibar and Pemba, 
and more rarely in the mountains of Usagara, springs 
apparently uncultivated in large dark groves on the 
shores of the Tanganyika, where it hugs the margin, 
rarely growing at any distance inland. The bright- 
yellow drupe, with shiny purple-black point, though 
nauseous to the taste, is eaten by the people. The 
mawezi or palm-oil, of the consistency of honey, rudely 
extracted, forms an article of considerable traffic in 
the regions about the Lake. This is the celebrated 
extract, whose various officinal uses in Europe have 
already begun to work a social reformation in W. 
Africa. The people of Ujiji separate, by pounding, 



Digitized by Google 



PALM OIL IN CENTRAL AFRICA. 



59 



the oily sarcocarpium from the one seed of the drupe, 
boil it for some hours, allow the floating substance to 
coagulate, and collect it in large earthen pots. The 
price is usually about one doti of white cotton for thirty- 
five pounds, and the people generally demand salt in 
exchange for it from caravans. This is the " oil of a 
red colour" which, according to Mr. Cooley, is bought 
by the Wany amwezi " from the opposite or south-western 
side of the lake." Despite its sickly flavour, it is uni- 
versally used in cooking, and it forms the only unguent 
and lamp-oil in the country. This fine Guinea-palm Ii 
also tapped, as the date in Western India, for toddy ; 
and the cheapness of this tembo — the sura of West 
Africa — accounts for the prevalence of intoxication, 
and the consequent demoralisation of the Lakist tribes. 

The bazar at Ujiji is well supplied. Fresh fish of 
various kinds is always procurable except during the 
violence of the rains: the people, however, invariably 
cut it up and clean it out before bringing it to market. 
Good honey abounds after the wet monsoon. By the 
favour of the chief, milk and butter may be purchased 
every day. Long-tailed sheep and well-bred goats, 
poultry and eggs — the two latter are never eaten by 
the people — are brought in from the adjoining coun- 
tries: the Arabs breed a few Manilla ducks, and the 
people rear but will not sell pigeons. The few herds at 
Ujiji which have escaped the beef-eating propensities 
of the Watuta are a fine breed, originally, it is said, 
derived by the Wahha from the mountains of Karag- 
wah. Their horns in these lands appear unusually 
large ; their stature combines with the smallness of the 
hump to render them rather like English than Indian or 
African cattle. They are rarely sold of later days, 
except for enormous prices, an adult slave being the 



Digitized by Google 



60 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



lowest valuation of a cow. The cattle is never stalled 
or grain-fed, and the udder is little distended ; the pro- 
duce is about one quarter that of a civilised cow, and 
the animals give milk only during the few first months 
after calving. The " tulchan" of Tibet is apparently 
unknown in Central Africa ; but the people are not 
wanting in barbarous contrivances to persuade a stub- 
born animal to yield her produce. 

The fauna appear rare upon the borders of the 
Tanganyika : all men are hunters ; every human being 
loves animal food, from white ants to elephants; the 
tzetze was found there, and probably the luxuriance of 
the vegetation, in conjunction with the extreme humi- 
dity, tends to diminish species and individuals. Herds 
of elephants exist in the bamboo-jungles which surround 
the sea, but the heaps of ivory sold in the markets of 
Ujiji are collected from an area containing thousands of 
square miles. Hippopotami and crocodiles are common 
in the waters, wild buffaloes in the plains. The hyronas 
are bold thieves, and the half -wild " Pariah-dogs " that 
slink about the villages are little inferior as depredators. 
The people sometimes make pets of them, leading them 
about with cords; but they do not object to see them 
shot after a raid upon the Arab's meat, butter, or milk. 
These animals are rarely heard to bark ; they leave 
noise to the village cocks. The huts are as usual haunted 
by the grey and the musk-rat. Of birds there is a fine 
fish-eagle, about the size of a domestic cock, with snowy 
head and shoulders relieving a sombre chocolate plume : 
he sits majestically watching his prey upon the tali trees 
overhanging the waves of the Tanganyika. A larus, or 
sea-gull, with reddish legs, lives in small colonics upon 
this lake. At the end of the monsoon in 1858 these birds 
were seen to collect in troops upon the sands, as they 



Digitized by Google 



GULLS ON THE TANGANYIKA. 



til 



arc accustomed to do at Aden when preparing to migrate. 
The common kingfisher is a large bird with a white and 
grey plume, a large and strong black bill, and a crest 
which somewhat resembles that of the Indian bulbul: 
it perches upon the branches over the waters, and in 
flight and habits resembles other halcyons. A long and 
lank black plotus, or diver, is often seen skimming the 
waters, and sandpipers run along the yellow sands. 
The other birds are the white-breasted " parson-crow," 
partridges, and quails seen in Urundi ; swallows in pas- 
sage, curlews, motacilkc, muscicapa?, and various pas- 
serines. Ranao, some of them noisy in the extreme, 
inhabit the sedges close to the lake. The termite does 
great damage in the sweet red soils about Kawele : it is 
less feared when the ground is dry and sandy. The 
huts are full of animal life — snakes, scorpions, ants of 
various kinds, whose armies sometimes turn the occu- 
pants out of doors; the rafters are hollowed out by 
xylophagous insects ; the walls are riddled by mason- 
bees, hideous spiders veil the corners with thick webs, 
the chirp of the cricket is heard both within and out of 
doors, cockroaches destroy the provisions, and large 
brown mosquitoes and flies, ticks and bugs, assault the 
inhabitants. 

The rise in the price of slaves and ivory has compelled 
Arab merchants, as will be seen in another chapter, to 
push their explorations beyond the Tanganyika Lake. 
Ujiji is, however, still the great slave-mart of these re- 
gions, the article being collected from all the adjoining 
tribes of Urundi, Uhha, Uvira, and Marungu. The native 
dealers, however, are so acute, that they are rapidly 
ruining this their most lucrative traffic. They sell 
cheaply, and think to remunerate themselves by aiding 
and abetting desertion. Merchants, therefore, who do 



Digitized 



62 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



not chain or cord together their gangs till they have 
reached the east bank of the Malagarazi River, often 
lose 20 per cent. The prevalence of the practice has 
already given Ujiji a bad name, and, if continued, will 
remove the market to another place, where the people 
are somewhat less clever and more sensible. It is im- 
possible to give any idea of the average price of the 
human commodity, which varies, under the modifica- 
tions of demand and supply, from two to ten doti or 
tobes of American domestics. Yet as these purchases 
sell in Zanzibar for fourteen or fifteen dollars per head, 
the trade realises nearly 500 per cent., and will, therefore, 
with difficulty be put down. 

The principal tribes in this region are the Wajiji, the 
Wavinza, the Wakaranga, the Watuta, the Wabuha, and 
the Wahha. 

The Wajiji are a burly race of barbarians, far stronger 
than the tribes hitherto traversed, with dark skins, 
plain features, and straight, sturdy limbs: they are 
larger and heavier men than the Wanyamwezi, and the 
type, as it approaches Central Africa, becomes rather 
negro than negroid.* Their feet and hands are large 
and flat, their voices are harsh and strident, and their 
looks as well as their manners are independent even to 
insolence. The women, who are held in high repute, 
resemble, and often excel, their masters in rudeness and 

* My companion observes (in Blackwood, Nov. 1 859), ** It may be worthy 
of remark that I have always found the lighter coloured savages more bois- 
terous and warlike than those of the dingier hue. The ruddy black, fleshy- 
looking Wazaramos and Wagogos are much lighter in colour (1) than any 
of the other tribes, and certainly have a far superior, more manly and war- 
like independent spirit and bearing than any of the others." The "dingiest" 
peoples are usually the most degraded, and therefore sometimes the least 
powerful ; but the fiercest races in the land are the Wazaramo, the Wajiji 
and the Wataturu, who are at the same time the darkest. 



Digitized by Google 



THE WAJIJI TRIBE. 63 



violence ; they think little in their cups of entering a 
stranger's hut, and of snatching up and carrying away 
an article which excites their admiration. Many of both 
sexes, and all ages, are disfigured by the small-pox — 
the Arabs have vainly taught them inoculation — and 
there are few who are not afflicted by boils and various 
eruptions ; there is also an inveterate pandemic itch, 
which, according to their Arab visitors, results from a 
diet of putrid fish. 

This tribe is extensively tattooed, probably as a pro- 
tection against the humid atmosphere, and the chills of 
the Lake Region. Some of the chiefs have ghastly scars 
raised by fire, in addition to large patterns marked upon 
their persons — lines, circles, and rays of little cupping, 
cuts drawn down the back, the stomach, and the arms, 
like the tattoo of the Wangindo tribe near Kihva. Both 
sexes love to appear dripping with oil ; and they mani- 
festly do not hold cleanliness to be a virtue. The head 
is sometimes shaved ; rarely the hair is allowed to grow ; 
the most fashionable coiffure is a mixture of the two ; 
patches and beauty-spots in the most eccentric shapes — 
buttons, crescents, crests, and galeated lines — being 
allowed to sprout either on the front, the sides, or the 
back of the head, from a carefully- scraped scalp. 
Women as well as men are fond of binding a wisp of 
white tree-fibre round their heads, like the ribbon which 
confines the European old person's wig. There is not 
a trace of mustachio or whisker in the country ; they 
are removed by the tweezers, and the climate, accord- 
ing to the Arabs, is, like that of Unyamwezi, unfavourable 
to beards. For cosmetics both sexes apply, when they 
can procure such luxuries, red earth to the face, and over 
the head a thick-coating of chalk or mountain-meal, which 
makes their blackness stand out hideously grotesque. 



Digitized by Google 



64 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The chiefs wear expensive stuffs, checks, and cottons, 
which they extract from passing caravans. Women of 
wealth affect the tobe or coast-dress, and some were seen 
wearing red and blue broadcloths. The male costume 
of the lower orders is confined to softened goat, sheep, 
deer, leopard, or monkey skins, tied at two corners over 
either shoulder, with the flaps open at one side, 
and with tail and legs dangling in the wind. 
Women who cannot afford cloth use as a succe- 
daneum a narrow kilt of fibre or skin, and some con- 
tent themselves with a tassel of fibre or a leafy twig 
depending from a string bound round the waist, and 
displaying the nearest approach to the original fig-leaf. 
At Ujiji, however, the people are observed, for the first 
time, to make extensive use of the macerated tree-bark, 
which supplies the place of cotton in Urundi, Karagwah, 
and the northern kingdoms. This article, technically 
termed "mbugu," is made from the inner bark of various 
trees, especially the mrimba and the mwale, or huge 
Ilaphia-palm. The trunk of the full-grown tree is 
stripped of its integument twice or thrice, and is bound 
with plantain-leaves till a finer growth is judged fit for 
manipulation. This bark is carefully removed, steeped 
in water, macerated, kneaded, and pounded with clubs 
and battens to the consistency of a coarse cotton. Palm- 
oil is then spirted upon it from the mouth, and it 
acquires the colour of chamois-leather. The Wajiji ob- 
tain the mbugu mostly from Urundi and Uvira. They 
are fond of striping it with a black vegetable mud, so 
as to resemble the spoils of leopards and wild cats, 
and they favour the delusion by cutting the edge into 
long strips, like the tails and other extremities of wild 
beasts. The price of the mbugu varies according to 
size, from six to twelve khete or strings of beads. 



ORNAMENTS OP THE LAKISTS. C>.<3 

Though durable, it is never washed : after many 
months* wear the superabundance of dirt is removed by 
butter Or ghee. 

Besides the common brass-wire girdles and bracelets, 
armlets and anklets, masses of white-porcelain, blue- 
glass, and large pigeon-egg beads, and hundreds of the 
iron-wire circlets called sambo, which, worn with ponde- 
rous brass or copper rings round the lower leg, above 
the foot, suggest at a distance the idea of disease, the 
VVajiji are distinguished from tribes not on the lake by 
necklaces of shells — small pink bivalves strung upon a 
stout fibre. They have learned to make brass from 
the Arabs, by melting down one-third of zinc imported 
from the coast with two parts of the fine soft and red 
copper brought from the country of the Kazeembe. 
Like their Lakist neighbours, they ornament the throat 
with disks, crescents, and strings of six or seven cones, 
fastened by the apex, and depending to the breast. 
Made of the whitest ivory or of the teeth, not the tusks, 
of the hippopotamus, these dazzling ornaments effec- 
tively se,t off the dark and negro-like skin. Another 
peculiarity amongst these people is a pair of iron pincers 
or a piece of split wood ever hanging round the neck ; 
nor is its use less remarkable than its presence. The 
Lakists rarely chew, smoke, or take snuff according to 
the fashion of the rest of mankind. Every man carries 
a little half-gourd or diminutive pot of black earthen- 
ware, nearly full of tobacco ; when inclined to indulge, 
he fills it with water, expresses the juice, and from the 
palm of his hand sniffs it up into his nostrils. The 
pincers serve to close the exit> otherwise the nose must 
be temporarily corked by the application of finger and 
thumb. Without much practice it is difficult to arti- 
culate during the retention of the dose, which lasts a 

VOL. II. F 



Digitized 



fir, 



TUB LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



few minutes, and when an attempt is made the words 
are scarcely intelligible. The arms of the Wajiji are 
small battle-axes and daggers, spears, and large bows, 
which carry unusually heavy arrows. They fear the 
gun and the sabre, yet they show no unwillingness to 
fight. The Arabs avoid granting their demands for 
muskets and gunpowder, consequently a great chief 
never possesses more than two or three fire-locks. 

The Lakists are an almost amphibious race, excellent 
divers, strong swimmers and fishermen, and vigorous 
ichthyophagists all. At times, when excited by the 
morning coolness and by the prospect of a good haul, 
they indulge in a manner of merriment which re- 
sembles the gambols of sportive water-fowls : standing 
upright and balancing themselves in their hollow logs, 
which appear but little larger than themselves, they 
strike the water furiously with their paddles, skimming 
over the surface, dashing to and fro, splashing one 
another, urging forward, backing, and wheeling their 
craft, now capsizing, then regaining their position with 
wonderful dexterity. They make coarse hooks, and 
have many varieties of nets and creels. Conspicuous 
on the waters and in the villages is the Dewa, or " otter " 
of Oman, a triangle of stout reeds, which shows the 
position of the net. A stronger kind, and used for 
the larger ground- fish, is a cage of open basket-work, 
provided, like the former, with a bait and two entrances. 
The fish once entangled cannot escape, and a log of 
wood, used as a trimmer, attached to a float-rope of 
rushy plants, direct* the fisherman. The heaviest ani- 
mals are caught by a rope-net — the likh of Oman — 
weighted and thrown out between two boats. They 
have circular lath frames, meshed in with a knot some- 
what different from that generally used in Europe ; the 



FISH IN" THE TANGANYIKA. 



G7 



smaller variety is thrown from the boat by a single man, 
who follows it into the water, — the larger, which 
reaches six feet in diameter, is lowered from the bow by 
cords, and collects the fish attracted by the glaring 
torch-fire. The Wajiji also make large and small drag- 
nets, some let down in a circle by one or more canoes, 
the others managed by two fishermen, who, swimming 
at each end, draw them in when ready. They have little 
purse-nets to catch small fry, hoops thrust into a long 
stick-handle through the reed walls that line the shore ; 
and by this simple contrivance the fish are caught in 
considerable quantities. The wigo or crates alluded to 
a3 peculiar in the 'Periplus,' and still common upon 
the Zanzibar coast, are found at the Tanganyika. The 
common creel resembles the khiin of Western India, 
and is well-known even to the Bushmen of the South : 
it is a cone of open bamboo-strips or supple twigs, 
placed lengthways, and bound in and out by strings of 
grass or tree-fibre. It is closed at the top, and at the 
bottom there is a narrow aperture, with a diagonally- 
disposed entrance like that of a wire rat-trap, which 
prevents the fish escaping. It is placed upon its side 
with a bait, embanked with mud, reeds, or sand, and 
seems to answer the purpose for which it is intended. 
In Uzaramo and near the coast the people narcotise fish 
with the juice of certain plants, asclepias and euphorbias : 
about the Tanganyika the art appears unknown. 

There are many varieties of fish in the waters of this 
Lake. The Mvoro is a long and bony variety, in shape 
like a large mackerel ; the Sangale resembles it, but the 
head and body are thicker. The Mgege, which suggests 
the Pomfret of Western India, is well flavoured, but full 
of bones. The Mguhe is said to attain the length of 
five or six feet : it is not unlike the kheri of the Indian 

T 2 



Digitized by Google 



68 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



rivers, and to a European palate it is the best fish that 
swims in these waters. The largest is the Singd, a 
scaleless variety, with black back, silvery belly, small 
fins, and long fleshy cirri : it crawls along the bottom, and 
is unfit for leaping or for rapid progress. This sluggish 
and misshapen ground-fish is much prized by the people 
on account of its rich and luscious fat. Like the Pallu 
of Sindh, it soon palls upon the European palate. Want 
of flavour is the general complaint made by the Arabs 
and coast people against the produce of the Tanganyika : 
they attempt to diminish the wateriness of the fish by 
exposing it spitted to a slow fire, and by subsequently 
stowing it for the night in well-closed earthen pots. 
Besides the five varieties above alluded to, there are 
dwarf eels of good flavour, resembling the Indian Bam ; 
Daga'a, small fish called by the Arabs Kashu'a, 
minnows of many varieties, which, simply sundried, or 
muriated if salt can be afforded, find their way far east ; 
a dwarf shrimp, about one quarter the size of the com- 
mon English species ; and a large bivalve called Sinani, 
and identified as belonging to the genus Iridina. The 
meat is fat and yellow, like that of a well-fed oyster, 
but it is so insipid that none but a Mjiji can eat it. 
The shells collected upon the shores of the Tanganyika 
and on the land journey have been described by Mr. 
Samuel P. Woodward, who courteously named the 
species after the European members of the Expedition. 
To his memoir — quoted in pages 102, 103 of this 
volume — the reader is referred. 

The Wajiji are considered by the Arabs to be the 
most troublesome race in these black regions. They 
are taught, by the example of their chiefs, to be rude, 
insolent, and extortionate ; they demand beads even for 
pointing out the road ; they will deride and imitate a 



Digitized by Google 



CHARACTER OP THE WAJIJI. 



GO 



stranger's speech arid manner before his face ; they can 
do nothing without a long preliminary of the fiercest 
scolding ; they are as ready with a blow as with a word ; 
and they may often be seen playing at "rough and 
tumble," fighting, pushing, and tearing hair, in their 
boats. A Mjiji uses his dagger or his spear upon a 
guest with little hesitation ; he thinks twice, however, 
before drawing blood, if it will cause a feud. Their 
roughness of manner is dashed with a curious ceremo- 
niousness. When the sultan appears amongst his people, 
he stands in a circle and claps his hands, to which all 
respond in the same way. Women curtsy to one an- 
other, bending the right knee almost to the ground. 
When two men meet they clasp each other's arms with 
both hands, rubbing them up and down, and ejaculating 
for some minutes, " Nama sanga ? nama sanga ?— art 
thou well ? " They then pass the hands down to the 
forearm, exclaiming " Wakhe? wdkhe?— how art thou ?" 
and finally they clap palms at each other, a token of 
respect which appears common to these tribes of Central 
Africa. The children have all the frowning and un- 
prepossessing look of their parents ; they reject little 
civilities, and seem to spend life in disputes, biting and 
clawing like wild cats. There appears to be little 
family affection in this undemonstrative race. The 
only endearment between father and sort is a habit of 
scratching and picking each other, caused probably by 
the prevalence of a complaint before alluded to ; as 
amongst the Simiads, the intervals between pugnacity are 
always spent in exercising the nails. Sometimes, also, 
at sea, when danger is near, the Mjiji breaks the mourn- 
ful silence of his fellows, who are all thinking of home, 
with the exclamation, " Yd mguri wanje ! — O my wife ! 99 
They are never sober when they can be drunk j perhaps 

T 3 



Digitized by Google 



70 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

in no part of the world will the traveller more often see 
men and women staggering about the village with thick 
speech and violent gestures. The favourite inebrient is 
tembo or palm-toddy ; almost every one, however, even 
when on board the canoe, smokes bhang, and the whoop- 
ing and screaming which follow the indulgence resemble 
the noise of wild beasts rather than the sounds of human 
beings. Their food consists principally of holcus, manioc, 
and fish, which is rarely eaten before it becomes offen- 
sive to European organs. 

The great Mwami or Sultan of Ujiji in 1858-59 was 
Rusimba. Under him were several mutware (mutwale) 
or minor chiefs, one to each settlement, as Kannena in 
Kawele and Lurinda in Gungu. On the arrival of a 
caravan, Rusimba forwards, through his relations, a tusk 
or two of ivory, thus mutely intimating that he requires 
his blackmail, which he prefers to receive in beads and 
kitindi or coil-bracelets, proportioning, however, his de- 
mand to the trader's means. When this point has been 
settled, the mutware sends his present, and expects a 
proportionate return. He is, moreover, entitled to a fee 
for every canoe hired; on each slave the kiremba or 
excise is about half the price ; from one to two cloths 
are demanded upon every tusk of ivory ; and he will 
snatch a few beads from a man purchasing provisions x 
for his master. The minor headmen are fond of making 
" sare " or brotherhood with strangers, in order to secure 
them in case of return. They depend for influence over 
their unruly subjects wholly upon personal qualifica- 
tions, bodily strength, and violence of temper. A chief, 
though originally a slave, may " win golden opinions " 
by his conduct when in ttquor : he assumes the most 
ferocious aspect, draws his dagger, brandishes his spear, 
and, with loud screams, rushes at his subjects as intent 



Digitized by Google 



QUALIFICATIONS OF A LAKIST CHIEF. 



71 



upon annihilating them. The affairs of the nation are 
settled by the mwami, the chief, in a general council of 
. the lieges, the wateko (in the singular mteko) or elders 
presiding. Their intellects, never of the brightest, are 
invariably fuddled with toddy, and, after bawling for 
hours together and coming apparently to the most satis- 
factory conclusion, the word of a boy or of an old woman 
will necessitate another lengthy palaver. The sultans, 
like their subjects, brook no delay in their own affairs ; 
they impatiently dun a stranger half-a-dozen times a day 
for a few beads, while they patiently keep him waiting 
for weeks on occasions to him of the highest importance, 
whilst they are drinking pombe or taking leave of their 
wives. Besides the magubiko or preliminary presents, 
the chiefs are bound, before the departure of a caravan 
which has given them satisfaction, to supply it with 
half-a-dozen masuta or matted packages of grain, and 
to present the leader with a slave, who generally man- 
ages to abscond. The parting gifts are technically 
called " urangozi," or guidance. 

Under the influence of slavery the Wajiji have made 
no progress in the art of commerce. They know no- 
thing of bargaining or of credit : they will not barter 
unless the particular medium upon which they have set 
their hearts is forthcoming ; and they fix a price 
according to their wants, not to the value of the article. 
The market varies with the number of caravans present 
at the dep6t, the season, the extent of supply, and a 
variety of similar considerations. Besides the trade in 
ivory, slaves, bark, cloth, and palm-oil, they manufac- 
ture and hawk about iron sickles shaped like the Eu- 
ropean, kengere, kiugi, or small bells, and sambo, locally 
called tambi, or wire circlets, worn as ornaments round 
the ankles; long double-edged knives in wooden sheaths, 

r 4 



Digitized by Google 



72 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

• 

neatly whipped with strips of rattan ; and jembe or 
hoes. Of bells a dozen were purchased in March and 
April of 1858 for two fundo of white beads. Jembe 
and large sime averaged also two fundo. Of good 
sambo 100, and of the inferior quality 200, were pro- 
curable for a fundo. The iron is imported in a rough 
state from Uvira. The value of a goat was one shuk- 
kah, which here represents, as in Unyamwezi, twelve 
feet, or double the length of the shukkah in other re- 
gions, the single cloth being called lupande, or upande. 
Sheep, all of a very inferior quality, cost somewhat 
more than goats. A hen, or from five to six eggs, fetched 
one khete of samesarae, or red-coral beads, which are 
here worth three times the quantity of white porcelain. 
Large fish, or those above two pounds in weight, were 
sold for three khete ; the small fry — the white bait of 
this region — one khete per two pounds ; and diminutive 
shrimps one khete per three pounds. Of plantains, a 
small bunch of fifteen, and of sweet potatoes and yams 
from ten to fifteen roots, were purchased for a khete ; 
of artichokes, egg-plants, and cucumbers, from fifty to 
one hundred. The wild vegetables generically called 
mboga are the cheapest of these esculents. Beans, 
phaseoli, ground-nuts, and the voandzeia, were expen- 
sive, averaging about two pounds per khete. Rice 
is not generally grown in Ujiji ; a few measures of fine 
white grain were purchased at a fancy price from one 
Sayfu bin Hasani, a pauper Msawahili, from the isle of 
Chole, settled in the country. The sugar-cane is poor 
and watery, it was sold in lengths of four or five feet for 
the khete: one cloth and two khete purchased three 
pounds of fine white honey. Tobacco was compara- 
tively expensive. Of the former a shukkah procured a 
bag weighing perhaps ten pounds. Milk was sold at 



PRICES AT UJ1JI IN 1858 



73 



arbitrary prices, averaging about three teacups for the 
khete. A shukkah would procure three pounds of 
butter, and ghee was not made for the market. It was 
impossible to find sweet toddy, as the people never 
smoke nor clean the pots into which it is drawn ; of the 
acid and highly intoxicating drink used by the Wajiji, 
from five to six teacups were to be bought with a khete. 
Firewood, being imported, was expensive, a khete 
being the price of a little faggot containing from fifty 
to one hundred sticks. About one pound of unclean cot- 
ton was to be purchased for three khete of samesame. 
It must be observed, that this list of prices, which 
represents the market at Kawele, gives a high average, 
many of the articles being brought in canoes from con- 
siderable distances, and even from the opposite coast. 

The traveller in the Lake Regions loses by cloth ; the 
people, contented with softened skins and tree-bark, pre- 
fer beads, ornaments, and more durable articles : on the 
other hand, he gains upon salt, which is purchased at 
half-price at the Parugerero Pan, and upon large wires 
brought from the coast. Beads are a necessary evil to 
those engaged in purchasing ivory and slaves. In 1858 
the Wajiji rejected with contempt the black porcelains, 
called ububu. At first they would not receive the 
khanyera, or white-porcelains; and afterwards, when 
the Expedition had exchanged, at a considerable loss, 
their large stock for langiyo, or small blues, they 
demanded the former. The bead most in fashion was 
the mzizima, or large blue-glass, three khete of 
which were equivalent to a small cloth; the same- 
same, or red-corals, required to be exchanged for 
mzizima, of which one khete was an equivalent to three 
of samesame. The maguru nzige, or pink porcelains, 
were at par. The tobacco-stem bead, called sofi, and 



Digitized 



74 



THE LAKE REGIOXS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



current at Msene, was in demand. The reader will 
excuse the prolixity of these wearisome details, they 
are necessary parts of a picture of manners and customs 
in Central Africa. Moreover, a foreknowledge of the 
requirements of the people is a vital condition of suc- 
cessful exploration. There is nothing to arrest the 
traveller's progress in this section of the African inte- 
rior except the failure of his stores. 

A serious inconvenience awaits the inexperienced, 
who find a long halt at, and a return from, Ujiji neces- 
sary. The Wanyamwezi pagazi, or porters, hired at 
Unyanyembe, bring with them the cloth and beads 
which they have received as hire for going to and 
coming from the lake, and lose no time in bartering 
the outfit for ivory or slaves. Those who prefer the 
former article will delay for some time with extreme 
impatience and daily complaints, fearing to cross 
Uvinza in small bodies when loaded with valuables. 
The purchasers of slaves, however, knowing that they 
will inevitably lose them after a few days at Ujiji, 
desert at once. In all cases, the report that a caravan 
is marching eastwards causes a general disappearance 
of the porters. As the Wajiji will not carry, the cara- 
van is reduced to a halt, which may be protracted for 
months, in fact, till another body of men coming from 
the east will engage themselves as return porters. 
Moreover, the departure homewards almost always 
partakes of the nature of a flight, so fearful are the 
strangers lest their slaves should seize the opportunity 
to desert. The Omani Arabs obviate these incon- 
veniences by always travelling with large bodies of 
domestics, whose interest it is not to abandon the 
master. 

South of the Wajiji lie the Wakaranga, a people prc- 



Digitized by Google 



THE WAKARAXGA AND WAVINZA. 76 

viously described as almost identical in development 
and condition, but somewhat inferior in energy and 
civilisation. Little need be said of the Wavinza, who 
appear to unite the bad qualities of both the Wanyam- 
wezi and the Ujiji. They are a dark, meagre, and ill- 
looking tribe; poorly clad in skin aprons and kilts. 
They keep off insects by inserting the chauri, or fly-flap, 
into the waistband of their kilts : and at a distance they 
present, like the Hottentots, the appearance of a race 
with tails. Their arms are spears, bows, and arrows ; 
and they use, unlike their neighbours, wicker-work 
shields six feet long by two in breadth. Their chiefs 
are of the Watosi race, hence every stranger who meets 
with their approbation is called, in compliment, Mtosi. 
They will admit strangers into their villages, dirty 
clumps of beehive huts; but they refuse to provide 
them with lodging. Merchants with valuable outfits 
prefer the jungle, and wait patiently for provisions 
brought in baskets from the settlements. The Wavinza 
seldom muster courage to attack a caravan, but strag- 
glers are in imminent danger of being cut off by them. 
Their country is rich in cattle and poultry, grain 
and vegetables. Bhang grows everywhere near the 
settlements, and they indulge themselves in it immo- 
derately. 

The Watuta — a word of fear in these regions — are a 
tribe of robbers originally settled upon the southern 
extremity of the Tanganyika Lake. After plundering 
the lands of Marungu and Ufipa, where they almost 
annihilated the cattle, the Watuta, rounding the eastern 
side of the Lake, migrated northwards. Some years ago 
they were called in by Ironga, the late Sultan of U'ungu, 
to assist him against Mui' Gumbi, the powerful chief of 
the Warori. The latter were defeated, after obstinate 



Digitized by Google 



76 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

fighting for many months. After conquering the 
Warori, the Watuta settled in Sultan Ironga's lands, 
rather by might than right, and they were expelled by 
his son with the greatest difficulty. From U'ungu their 
next step was to the southern bank of the Malagarazi 
River. About three years ago this restless tribe was 
summoned by Mzogera, the present Sultan of Uvinza, 
to assist him in seizing Uhha, which had just lost 
T'hare, its chief. The Watuta crossed the Malagarazi, 
laid waste the lands of Uhha and Ubuha, and desolated 
the northern region between the river and the lake. 
Shortly afterwards they attacked Msene, and were only 
repulsed by the matchlocks of the Arabs, after a week 
of hard skirmishing. In the early part of 1858 they 
' slew Ruhembe, the Sultan of Usui, a district north of 
Unyanyembe, upon the road to Karagwah. In the 
latter half of the same year they marched upon Ujiji, 
plundered Gungu, and proceeded to attack Kawele. 
The Arab merchants, however, who were then absent 
on a commercial visit to Uviva, returned precipitately 
to defend their dep6ts, and with large bodies of slave 
musketeers beat off the invader. The lands of the 
Watuta are now bounded on the north by Utumbara, 
on the south by Msene; eastwards by the meridian 
of Wilyankuru, and westwards by the highlands of 
Urundi. 

The Watuta, according to the Arabs, are a pastoral 
tribe, despising, like the Wamasai and the Somal, such 
luxuries as houses and fields ; they wander from place 
to place, camping under trees, over which they throw 
their mats, and driving their herds and plundered cattle 
to the most fertile pasture-grounds. The dress is some- 
times a mbugu or bark-cloth ; more generally it is con- 
fined to the humblest tribute paid to decency by the 



Digitized by Google 



THE WATUTA ROBBERS. 



77 



Kafirs of the Cape, and they have a similar objection 
to removing it. On their forays they move in large 
bodies, women as well as men, with the children and 
baggage placed upon bullocks, and their wealth in brass 
wire twisted round the horns. Their wives carry their 
weapons, and join, it is said, in the fight. The arms are 
two short spears, one in the right hand, the other in 
the left, concealed by a large shield, so that they can 
thrust upwards unawares : disdaining bows and arrows, 
they show their superior bravery by fighting at close 
quarters, and they never use the spear as an assegai. 
In describing their tactics, the Arabs call them 
" raanoeuvrers like the Franks." Their thousands 
march in four or five extended lines, and attack by 
attempting to envelop the enemy. There is no shout- 
ing nor war-cry to distract the attention of the com- 
batants: iron whistles are used for the necessary 
signals. During the battle the sultan, or chief, whose 
ensign is a brass stool, sits attended by his forty or fifty 
elders in the rear ; his authority is little more than 
nominal, the tribe priding itself upon autonomy. The 
Watuta rarely run away, and take no thought of their 
killed and wounded. They do not, like the ancient 
Jews, and the Gallas and Abyssinians of the present 
day, carry off a relic of the slain foe ; in fact, the 
custom seems to be ignored south of the equator. The 
Watuta have still however a wholesome fear of fire- 
arms, and the red flag of a caravan causes them to 
decamp without delay. According to the Arabs they 
are not inhospitable, and though rough in manner they 
have always received guests with honour. A fanciful 
trait is related concerning them : their first question to 
a stranger will be, " Didst thou see me from afar ? " — 
which, being interpreted, means, Did you hear of my 



78 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

greatness before coming here ? — and they hold an 
answer in the negative to be a casus belli. 

Remain for consideration the people of Ubuha and 
Uhha. The Wabuha is a small and insignificant tribe 
bounded on the north by Uhha, and on the south by 
the Malagarazi River : the total breadth is about three 
marches ; the length, from the Rusugi stream of the 
Wavinza to the frontiers of Ujiji and Ukaranga, is in 
all a distance of four days. Their principal settlement 
is Uyonwa, the district of Sultan Mariki : it is a mere 
clearing in the jungle, with a few pauper huts dotting 
fields of sweet potatoes. This harmless and oppressed 
people will sell provisions, but though poor they are 
particular upon the subject of beads, preferring coral 
and blue to the exclusion of black and white. They 
are a dark, curly-headed, and hard-favoured race : they 
wear the shushah or top-knot on the poll, dress in 
skins and tree-barks, ornament themselves with brass 
and copper armlets, ivory disks, and beads, and are 
never without their weapons, spears and assegais, sime 
or daggers, and small battle-axes. Honourable women 
wear tobes of red broadcloth and fillets of grass or fibre 
confining the hair. 

Uhha, written by Mr. Cooley Oha, was formerly a 
large tract of land bounded on the north by the 
mountains of Urundi, southwards and eastwards by 
the Malagarazi River, and on the west by the 
northern parts of Ujiji. As has been recounted, the 
Wahha dispersed by the Watuta have dispersed them* 
selves over the broad lands between Unyanyembe and 
the Tanganyika, and their own fertile country, well 
stocked with the finest cattle, has become a waste of 
jungle. A remnant of the tribe, under Kanoni, their 
present Sultan, son of the late T'hare, took refuge in 



Digitized by 



THE WAHHA SERV1LES. 



79 



the highlands of Urundi, not far from the principal 
settlement of the mountain king Mwezi : here they find 
water and pasture for their herds, and the strength of 
the country enables them to beat off their enemies. 
The Wahha are a comparatively fair and a not un- 
comely race; they are however universally held to be 
a vile and servile people ; according to the Arabs 
they came originally from the southern regions, the 
most ancient seat of slavery in E. Africa. Their 
Sultans or chiefs are of Wahinda or princely origin, 
probably descendants from the regal race of Unyam- 
wezi. Wahha slaves sell dearly at Msene; an adult 
male costs from five to six doti merkani, and a full- 
grown girl one gorah merkani or kaniki. 



Digitized by Google 



Head Dresses of Wanyamwczi. 



CHAP. XIV. 

WE EXPLORE THE TANGANYIKA LAKE. 

My first care after settling in Hamid's Tembe, was to 
purify the floor by pastiles of assafoetida, and fumiga- 
tions of gunpowder; my second was to prepare the 
roof for the rainy season. Improvement, however, 
progressed slowly ; the " children " of Said bin Salim 
were too lazy to work ; and the Wanyamwezi porters, 
having expended their hire in slaves, and fearing loss 
by delay, took the earliest opportunity of deserting. 
By the aid of a Msawahili artisan, I provided a pair 
of cartels, with substitutes for chairs and tables. 
Benches of clay were built round the rooms, but they 



Digitized by Googl 



THE SULTAN KANNENA 



proved useless, being found regularly every morning 
occupied in force by a swarming, struggling colony, of 
the largest white ants. The roof, long overgrown with 
tall grass, was fortified with an extra coat of mud ; 
it never ceased, however, leaking like a colander; 
presently the floor was covered with deep puddles, 
then masses of earth dropped from the sopped cop- 
ings and sides of the solid walls, and, at last, during the 
violent showers, half the building fell in. The conse- 
quence of the extreme humidity was, that every book 
which had. English paste in it was rendered useless by 
decay ; writing was rendered illegible by stains and black 
mildew ; moreover, during my absence, whilst exploring 
the Lake, Said bin Salim having neglected to keep a fire, 
as was ordered, constantly burning in the house, a large 
botanical collection was irretrievably lost. This was the 
more regretable as our return to the coast took place 
during the dry season, when the woods were bare of 
leaf, flower, and fruit. 

On the second day after my arrival I was called upon 
by "Kannena," the headman of Kawele, under Rusimba, 
the Mwami, or principal chief of Ujiji. 1 had heard a bad 
account of the former. His predecessor, Kabeza, a 
great favourite with the Arabs, had died about two 
months before we entered Kawele, leaving a single son, 
hardly ten years old, and Kannena, a slave, having the 
art to please the widows of the deceased, and, through 
them, the tribe, caused himself to be elected temporary 
headman during the heir's minority. lie was intro- 
duced habited in silk turban and broadcloth coat, 
which I afterwards heard he had borrowed from the 
Baloch, in order to put in a prepossessing first appear- 
ance. The elFort, however, failed ; his aspect was truly 
ignoble ; a short, squat, and broad-backed figure, with 

vol. ii. o 



Digitized by Google 



8-2 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



natural " plumpers/' a black skin cut and carved in 
various patterns, thick straight, stumpy, legs, and huge 
splay feet; his low narrow brow was ever knotted into a 
peevish frown, his apology for a nose much resembled 
the pug with which the ancients provided Silenus, and a 
villanous expression lurked about the depressed corners 
of his thick-lipped, sensual, liquorish mouth. On this 
occasion he behaved with remarkable civility, and he 
introduced, as the envoys commissioned by the great Rus- 
imba to receive his blackmail, two gentlemen a quarter- 
clad in the greasiest and scantiest bark-aprons, and armed 
with dwarfish battle-axes. The present was finally 
settled at ten coil-bracelets and two fundi of coral-beads. 
I had no salt — the first article in demand — to spare, or 
much valuable merchandise might have been saved. The 
return was six small bundles of grain, worth, probably, 
one-tenth of what had been received. Then Kannena 
opened trade by sending us a nominal gift, a fine ivory, 
weighing at least seventy pounds, and worth, perhaps, one 
hundred pounds, or nearly two mens' loads of the white 
or blue-porcelain beads used in this traffic. After keep- 
ing it for a day or two, I returned it, excusing myself 
by saying that, having visited the Tanganyika as a 
u Sarkal," I could have no dealings in ivory and slaves. 

This was right and proper in the character of a 
" Sarkal." But future adventurers are strongly advised 
always to assume the character of traders. In the 
first place, it explains the traveller's motives to the 
people, who otherwise lose themselves in a waste of wild 
conjecture. Secondly, under this plea, the explorer can 
push forward into unknown countries; he will be 
civilly received, and lightly fined, because the hosts 
expect to see him or his semblables again ; whereas, 
appearing without ostensible motive amongst them, he 



Digitized 



THE COMMERCIAL TASTES OP THE WAJIJI. 83 

would be stripped of his last cloth by recurring con- 
fiscations, fines, and every annoyance which greed of 
gain can suggest. Thus, as the sequel will prove, he 
loses more by overcharges than by the trifling outlay 
necessary to support the character of a trader. He 
travels respectably asa"Mundewa"or "Tajir" a merchant, 
which is ever the highest title given by the people to 
strangers ; and he can avoid exciting the jealousy of 
the Arabs by exchanging his tusks with them at a 
trifling loss when comforts or provisions are required 
for the road. 

So strange an announcement on my part aroused, as 
may be supposed, in the minds of the Wajiji marvel, 
doubt, disbelief, ill-will. "These are men who live 
by doing nothing!" exclaimed the race commercial 
as the sons of Hamburg ; and they lost no time in 
requesting me to quit their territory sooner than con- 
venient. To this I objected, offering, however, as com- 
pensation for the loss of their octrois and perquisites 
to pay for not trading what others paid for trading. 
Kannena roughly informed me that he had a claim for 
Kiremba, or duties upon all purchases and sales ; two 
cloths, for instance, per head of slave, or per elephant's 
tusk; and that, as he expected to gain nothing by 
brokerage from me, he must receive as compensa- 
tion, four coil-bracelets and six cotton cloths. These 
were at once forwarded to him. He then evidenced his 
ill-will in various ways, and his people were not slow 
in showing the dark side of their character. They 
threatened to flog Sayfu, the old Msawahili of Chole, 
for giving me hints concerning prices. The two sur- 
viving riding asses were repeatedly wounded with 
spears. Thieves broke into the outhouses by night, 
and stole all the clothes belonging to the Jemadar and 

o2 



Digitized by Google 



84 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

to the bull-headed slave Mabruki. At first the widows 
of the late Kabeza, to whom the only cows in the dis- 
trict belonged, supplied us plentifully with milk ; grad- 
ually the quantity shrank, whenever an opportunity 
offered it was " cut off and, at last, we could no 
longer afford the exorbitant price demanded. My com- 
panion having refused a cheese to Kannena, the dowager 
ladies, who owned the cows, when applied to for milk, 
threw away the vessel, and swore that by boiling what 
ought to be drunk unboiled, we were manifestly bewitch- 
ing and killing their cattle. On one occasion, a young 
person related to Rusimba went to the huts of the 
Baloch, and, snatching up a fine cloth which she clasped 
to her bosom, defied them to recover it by force, and 
departed, declaring that it was a fine for bringing 
" whites " into the country. At first our heroes spoke 
of much slaughter likely to arise from such procedure, 
and with theatrical gesture, made " rapiere au vent;" 
presently second-thoughts suggested how beautiful is 
peace, and thirdly, they begged so hard, that I was com- 
pelled to ransom for them the article purloined. I had 
unwittingly incurred the animosity of Kennena. On 
the day after his appearance in rich clothing he had 
entered unannounced with bare head, a spear or two in 
hand, and a bundle of wild-cats* skins by way of placket ; 
not being recognised, he was turned out, and the eject- 
ment mortally offended his dignity. Still other travel- 
lers fared even worse than we did. Said bin Majid, 
who afterwards arrived at Ujiji to trade for ivory and 
slaves, had two followers wounded by the Wajiji, one 
openly speared in the bazaar, and the other at night by 
a thief who was detected digging through the wall 
of the store-hut. 

After trade was disposed of, ensued a general Bakh- 



Digitized by 



TIIE PROPRIETY OF REWARDING BAD CONDUCT. «5 



shish. Nothing of the kind had been contemplated or 
prepared for at Zanzibar, but before leaving Unya- 
nyembe, I had found it necessary to offer an induce- 
ment, and now the promise was to be fulfilled. More- 
over, most of the party had behaved badly, and in 
these exceptional lands, bad behaviour always expects 
a reward. In the first place, says the Oriental, no man 
misconducts himself unless he has power to offend you 
and you are powerless to punish him. Secondly, by 
w petting " the offender, he may be bribed to conduct 
himself decently. On the other hand, the Eastern 
declares, by rewarding, praising, or promoting a man 
who has already satisfied you, you do him no good, and 
you may do him great harm. The boy Faraj, who 
had shamelessly deserted his master, Said bin Salim, 
was afterwards found at Unyanyembe, in Snay bin 
Amir's house, handsomely dressed and treated like a 
guest ; and his patron, forgetting all his stern resolves 
of condign punishment, met him with a peculiar kind- 
ness. I gave to the Baloch forty-five cloths, and to 
each slave, male and female, a pair. The gratification, 
however, proved somewhat like that man's liberality 
who, according to the old satirist, presented fine apparel 
to those whom he wished to ruin. Our people reck- 
lessly spent all their Bakhshish in buying slaves, who 
generally deserted after a week, leaving the unhappy ex- 
proprietor tantalised by all the torments of ungratified 
acquisitiveness. 

At first the cold damp climate of the Lake Regions 
did not agree with us ; perhaps, too, the fish diet was 
over-rich and fat, and the abundance of vegetables led 
to little excesses. All energy seemed to have abandoned 
us. I lay for a fortnight upon the earth, too blind to 
read or write, except with long intervals, too weak to 

G 3 



Digitized 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ride, and too ill to converse. My companion, who, when 
arriving at the Tanganyika Lake was almost as "groggy" 
upon his legs as I was, suffered from a painful ophth- 
almia, and from a curious distortion of face, which made 
him chew sideways, like a ruminant. Valentine was 
nearly blind ; and he also had a wry mouth, by no means 
the properest for the process of mastication. Gaetano, who 
arrived at Ujiji on the 17th February, was half-starved, 
and his anxiety to make up for lost time brought on a 
severe attack of fever. The Baloch complained of in- 
fluenzas and catarrhs: too lazy to build huts after occu- 
pying Kanncna's " Traveller's Bungalow " for the usual 
week, they had been turned out in favour of fresh visitors, 
and their tempers were as sore as their lungs and throats. 

But work remained undone ; it was necessary to awake 
from this lethargy. Being determined to explore the 
northern extremity of the Tanganyika Lake, whence, 
according to several informants, issued a large river, 
flowing northwards, and seeing scanty chance of suc- 
cess, and every prospect of an accident, if compelled 
to voyage in the wretched canoes of the people, I at 
first resolved to despatch Said bin Salim across the 
water, and, by his intervention, to hire from an Arab 
merchant, Hamid bin Sulayyam, the only dow, or sail- 
ing-craft then in existence. But the little Arab 
evidently shirked the mission, and he shirked so artisti- 
cally, that, after a few days, I released him, and directed 
my companion to do his best about hiring the dow, 
and stocking it with provisions for a month's cruise. 

Then arose the preliminary difficulties of the trip. 
Kannena and all his people, suspecting that my 
only object was economy in purchasing provisions, 
opposed the project ; they demanded exorbitant sums, 
and often when bargained down and apparently satis- 



Digitized by 



DAY AT UJIJI. 



H7 



fied, they started up and rushed away, declaring that 
they washed their hands of the business. At length, 
Lurinda, the neighbouring headman, was persuaded to 
supply a Nakhoda and a crew of twenty men. An 
Arab pays on these occasions, besides rations, ten per 
cent, upon merchandise ; the white men were compelled 
to give four coil-bracelets and eight cloths for the 
canoe ; besides which, the crew received, as hire, six 
coil-bracelets, and to each individual provisions for 
eight days, and twenty khete of large blue-glass beads, 
and small blue-porcelains were issued. After many 
delays, my companion set out on the 2nd of March, in 
the vilest weather, and spent the first stormy day near the 
embouchure of the Ruche River, within cannon shot of 
Kawele. This halt gave our persecutors time to change 
their minds once more, and again to forbid the journey. 
I was compelled to purchase their permission by send- 
ing to Kannena an equivalent of what had been paid for 
the canoe to Lurinda, viz. four coil-bracelets and eight 
cloths. Two days afterwards my companion, supplied 
with an ample outfit, and accompanied by two Baloch 
and his men — Gaetano and Bombay — crossed the 
bay of Ukarangu, and made his final departure for the 
islands. 

During my twenty-seven days of solitude the time 
sped quickly ; it was chiefly spent in eating and drink- 
ing, smoking and dozing. Awaking at 2 or 3 a.m., I 
lay anxiously expecting the grey light creeping through 
the door-chinks and making darkness visible ; the glad 
tidings of its approach were announced by the cawing 
of the crows and the crowing of the village cocks. 
When the golden rays began to stream over the red 
earth, the torpid Valentine was called up ; he brought 
with him a mess of Suji, or rice-flour boiled in water, 

o 4 



Digitized 



88 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



with a little cold milk as a relish. Then entered Muha- 
banya, the " slavey" of the establishment, armed with 
a leafy branch to sweep the floor, and to slay the huge 
wasps that riddled the walls of the tenement. This 
done he lit the fire — the excessive damp rendered this 
precaution necessary — and sitting over it he bathed his 
face and hands — luxurious dog ! — in the pungent smoke. 
Ensued visits of ceremony from Said bin Salim and the 
Jemadar, who sat, stared, and, somewhat disappointed 
at seeing no fresh symptoms of approaching dissolu- 
tion, told me so with their faces, and went away. From 
7 a.m. till 9 a.m., the breakfast hour, Valentine was 
applied to tailoring, gun-cleaning, and similar light 
work, over which he groaned and grumbled, whilst I 
settled down to diaries and vocabularies, a process inter- 
rupted by sundry pipes. Breakfast was again a mess 
of Suji and milk, — such civilised articles as tea, coffee, 
and sugar, had been unknown to me for months. Again 
the servants resumed their labour, and they worked, 
with the interval of two hours for sleep at noon, till 4 
p.m. During this time the owner lay like a log upon 
his cot, smoking almost uninterruptedly, dreaming of 
things past, and visioning things present, and sometimes 
indulging himself in a few lines of reading and writing. 

Dinner was an alternation offish and fowl, game and 
butchers' meat being rarely procurable at Ujiji. The 
fish were in two extremes, either insipid and soft, or so 
fat and coarse that a few mouthfuls sufficed; most of them 
resembled the species seen in the seas of Western India, 
and the eels and small shrimps recalled memories of 
Europe. The poultry, though inferior to that of Un- 
yanyembe, was incomparably better than the lean stringy 
Indian chicken. The vegetables were various and 
plentiful, tomatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, sweet pota- 



Digitized by 



DAY AT UJIJI. 



80 



toes, yams, and several kinds of beans, especially a 
white harricot, which afforded many a purie; the 
only fruit procurable was the plantain, and the only 
drink — the toddy being a bad imitation of vinegar — was 
water. 

As evening approached I made an attempt to sit under 
the broad eaves of the Tembe, and to enjoy the de- 
licious spectacle of this virgin Nature, and the reveries 
to which it gave birth. 

44 A pleasing land of drowsibed it was, 

Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye, 
And of gay castles in the clouds that pass, 
For ever flushing round a summer sky." 

It reminded me of the loveliest glimpses of the Medi- 
terranean ; there were the same " laughing tides," pel- 
lucid sheets of dark blue water, borrowing their tints 
from the vinous shores beyond ; the same purple light 
of youth upon the cheek of the earlier evening, the same 
bright sunsets, with their radiant vistas of crimson and 
gold opening like the portals of a world beyond the skies; 
the same short-lived grace and loveliness of the twilight ; 
and, as night closed over the earth, the same cool flood 
of transparent moonbeam, pouring on the tufty heights 
and bathing their sides with the whiteness of virgin 
snow. 

At 7 p.m., as the last flush faded from the Occident, the 
lamp — a wick in a broken pot full of palm oil — was 
brought in ; Said bin Salim appeared to give the news 
of the day, — how A. had abused B., and how C. had 
nearly been beaten by D., and a brief conversation led to 
the hour of sleep. A dreary, dismal day, you will ex- 
claim, gentle reader ; a day that 

44 lasts out a night in Russia, 
When nights are longest there." 



Digitized 



90 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Yet it had its enjoyments. There were no post- 
offices, and this African Eden had other advan- 
tages, which, probably, 1 might vainly attempt to 
describe. 

On the 29th of March the rattling of matchlocks an- 
nounced my companion's return. The Masika had 
done its worst upon him. I never saw a man so 
thoroughly moist and mildewed ; he justified even 
the French phrase "wet to the bone." His para- 
phernalia were in a similar state ; his guns were grained 
with rust, and his fire-proof powder-magazine had ad- 
mitted the monsoon-rain. I was sorely disappointed : 
he had done literally nothing. About ten days before 
his return I had been visited by Khamis bin Jumah, 
an Arab merchant, who, on the part of the proprietor of 
the dow, gave the gratifying message that we could have 
it when we pleased. I cannot explain where the mis- 
management lay ; it appears, however, that the wily " son 
of Sulayyam " detained the traveller simply for the pur- 
pose of obtaining from him gratis a little gunpowder. 
My companion had rested content with the promise that 
after three months the dow should be let to us for a sum 
of 500 dollars ! and he had returned without boat or pro- 
visions to report ill success. The faces of Said bin Salim 
and the Jemadar, when they heard the period mentioned, 
were indeed a study. I consoled him and myself as I 
best could, and applied myself to supplying certain defi- 
ciencies as regards orthography and syntax in a diary 
which appeared in Blackwood, of September 1859, 
under the title " Journal of a Cruise in the Tanganyika 
Lake, Central Africa." I must confess, however, my sur- 
prise at, amongst many other things, the vast horseshoe 
of lofty mountain placed by my companion in the map 
attached to that paper, near the very heart of Sir R. 



Digitized by 



THUS MEN DO GEOGRAPHY ! 



91 



Murchison's Depression. As this wholly hypothetical, 
or rather inventive feature, — I had seen the mountains 
growing upon paper under my companion's hand, from 
a thin ridge of hill fringing the Tanganyika to the por- 
tentous dimensions given in Blackwood (Sept. 1859), 
and Dr. Petermann's Mittheilungen, (No. 9, of 1859,) — 
wore a crescent form, my companion gravely published, 
with all the pomp of discovery, in the largest capitals, 
" This mountain range I consider to be the true moun- 
tains of the moon." * * * Thus men do geography ! 
and thus discovery is stultified. 

When my companion had somewhat recovered from his 
wetness, and from the effects of punching-in with a pen- 
knife a beetle which had visited his tympanum*, I began 

* My companion gives in Blackwood, Sept. 1859, the following descrip- 
tion of his untoward accident: — "This daj (that of his arrival at the isle 
of Kivira) passed in rest and idleness, recruiting from our late exertions. 
At night a violent storm of rain and wind beat on my tent with such fury 
that its nether parts were torn away from the pegs, and the tent itself was 
only kept upright by sheer force. On the wind's abating, a candle was 
lighted to rearrange the kit, and in a moment, as though by magic, the whole 
interior became covered with a host of small black beetles, evidently attracted 
by the glimmer of the candle. They were so nnnoyingly determined in their 
choice of place for peregrinating, that it seemed hopeless my trying to brush 
them off the clothes or bedding, for as one was knocked aside another came 
on, and then another, till at last, worn out, I extinguished the candle, and 
with difficulty — trying to overcome the tickling annoyance occasioned by 
these intruders crawling up my sleeves and into my hair, or down my back 
and legs — fell off to sleep. Repose that night was not destined to be my lot. 
One of these horrid little insects awoke me in his struggles to penetrate my 
ear, but just too late : for in my endeavour to extract him, I aided his im- 
mersion. He went his course, struggling up the narrow channel, until he got 
arrested by want of passage-room. This impediment evidently enraged him, 
for he began with exceeding vigour, like a rabbit at a hole, to dig violently 
away at my tympanum. The queer sensation this amusing measure excited 
in me is past description. I felt inclined to act as our donkeys once did, 
when beset by a swarm of bees, who buzzed about their ears and stung their 
heads and eyes until they were so irritated and confused that they galloped 
about in the most distracted order, trying to knock them off by treading on 



Digitized by Google 



92 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



seriously to seek some means of exploring the northern 
head of the Tanganyika. Hamid bin Sulayyam had 
informed his late guest that he had visited the place, 
where, although attacked by an armada of thirty or forty 
hostile canoes, he had felt the influence of a large river, 
which drains the water northwards: in fact, he told 
the "lie with circumstance." By a curious coincidence, 
Sayfu, the Mswahili of Chole, declared that he also 
had sighted a stream issuing from the northern extre- 
mity of the lake— this was the " lie direct " — and he 
offered to accompany me as guide and interpreter. 
When we compared statements, we saw what was before 
us, — a prize for which wealth, health, and life, were to 
be risked. 

It now became apparent that theMasika or rains, which 
the Arabs, whose barbarous lunar year renders untrust- 
worthy in measurements of time, had erroneously repre- 
sented as synchronous with the wet monsoon of Zanzibar, 
was drawing to a close, and that the season for navigation 
was beginning.* After some preliminaries with Said bin 

their heads, or by rushing under bushes, into houses, or through any jungle 
they could find. Indeed, I do not know which was worst off. The bees 
killed some of them and this beetle nearly did for me. What to do I knew 
not. Neither tobacco, oil, nor salt could be found : I therefore tried melted 
butter; that failing, I applied the point of a pen-knife to his back, which did 
more harm than good ; for though a few thrusts kept him quiet, the point also 
wounded my ear so badly, that inflammation set in, severe suppuration took 
place, and all the facial glands extending from that point down to the point 
of the shoulder became contorted and drawn aside, and a string of bubos de- 
corated the whole length of that region. It was the most painful thing I ever 
remember to have endured ; but, more annoying still, I could not open my 
mouth for several days, and had to feed on broth alone. For many months 
the tumour made me almost deaf, and ate a hole between that orifice and the 
nose, so that when I blew it, my ear whistled so audibly that those who heard 
it laughed. Six or seven months after this accident happened, bits of the 
beetle, a leg, a wing, or parts of its body, came away in the wax." 

* Not unmindful of the instructions of the Bombay Geographical Society, 
which called especial attention to the amount of rain-fall and evaporation in 



Digitized by Google 



PREPARATIONS FOR A CRUISE. 



03 



Salim, Kannena, who had been preparing for a cruise north- 
wards, was summoned before me. He agreed to convey 
me ; but when I asked him the conditions on which he 
would show me the Mtoni, or river, he jumped up, dis- 
charged a volley of oaths, and sprang from the house like 
an enraged baboon. I was prepared for this difficulty, 
having had several warnings that the tribes on the northern 
shores of the Tanganyika allow no trade. But fears like 
Kannena's may generally be bought over. I trusted, 
therefore, to Fate, and resolved that at all costs, even if 
reduced to actual want, we should visit this mysterious 
stream. At length the headman yielded every point. 
He received, it is true, an exorbitant sum. Arabs visit- 
ing Uvira, the " ultima thule " of lake navigation, pay 
one cloth to each of the crew ; and the fare of a single 
passenger is a brace of coil-bracelets. For two canoes, 
the larger sixty feet by four, and the lesser about two- 
thirds that size, I paid thirty-three coil-bracelets, here 
equal to sixty dollars, twenty cloths, thirty-six khcte of 
blue glass beads, and 770 ditto of white-porcelains and 
green-glass. I also promised to Kannena a rich reward 
if he acted up to his word ; and as an earnest I threw 
over his shoulders a six-foot length of scarlet broad^ 
cloth, which caused his lips to tremble with joy, despite 
his struggles to conceal it. The Nakhoda (captain) and 
the crew in turn received, besides rations, eighty cloths, 

a region, which abounding in lakes and rivers yet sends no supplies to the 
sea, I had prepared, at Zanzibar, a dish and a guage for the purpose of com- 
paring the hygroraetry of the African with that of the Indian rainy monsoon. 
The instruments, however, were fated to do no work. The first portion of 
the Masika was spent in a journey ; ensued severe sickness, and the end of 
the rains happened during a voyage to the north of the Tanganyika. A 
few scattered observations might have been registered, but it was judged 
better to bring home no results, rather than imperfections which could only 
mislead the meteorologist. 



94 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



170 khete of blue glass-beads, and forty of coral-porce- 
lains, locally three times more valuable than whites or 
greens. Sayfu, the interpreter, was as extravagantly 
paid in eight cloths and twenty-seven pounds of white 
and blue-porcelains. After abundance of dispute it was 
settled that the crews should consist of fifty-five men, 
thirty-three to the larger and twenty-two to the smaller 
canoe. It was an excess of at least one-half, who went 
for their own profit, not for our pleasure. When this 
point was conceded, we were kindly permitted to take 
with us the two Goanese, the two black gun-carriers, and 
three Baloch as an escort. The latter were the valiant 
Khudabakhsh, whom I feared to leave behind ; Jelai, the 
mestico-Mekrani ; and, thirdly, Riza, the least mutinous 
and uncivil of the party. 

Before departure it will be necessary to lay before the 
reader a sketch of our conveyance. The first aspect 
of these canoes made me lament the loss of Mr. Francis* 
iron boat: regrets, however, were of no avail. Quo- 
cum que modo — rem ! was the word. 

The Baumrinden are unknown upon the Tanganyika 
Lake, where the smaller craft are monoxyles, generally 
damaged in the bow by the fishermen's fire. The larger 
are long, narrow " matumbi," or canoes, rudely hollowed 
with the axe — the application of fire being still to be 
invented, — in fact, a mere log of mvule, or some 
other large tree which abound in the land of the Wa- 
goma, opposite Ujiji. The trunks are felled, scooped 
out in loco, dragged and pushed by man-power down 
the slopes, and finally launched and paddled over to 
their destination. The most considerable are composed 
of three parts — clumsy, misshapen planks, forming, 
when placed side by side, a keel and two gunwales, 



LAKE NAVIGATION. 



95 



the latter fastened to the centre-piece by cords of 
palm-fibre passing through lines of holes. The want of 
caulking causes excessive leakage : the crew take duty 
as balesmen in turns. The cry Senga ! — bale out ! — 
rarely ceases, and the irregular hollowing of the tree- 
trunks makes them lie lopsided in the water. These 
vessels have neither masts nor sails ; artifices which now 
do not extend to this part of the African world. An iron 
ring, fixed in the stern, is intended for a rudder, which, 
however, seldom appears except in the canoes of the 
Arabs, steering is managed by the paddle, and a flag-staff 
or a fishing-rod projects jib-like from the bow. Layers 
of palm-ribs, which serve for fuel, are strewed over the 
interior to raise the damageable cargo — it is often of salt 
— above the bilge-water. The crew sit upon narrow 
benches, extending across the canoe and fastened, with 
cords to holes in the two side-pieces ; upon each bench, 
despite the narrowness of the craft, two men place 
themselves side by side. The " Karagwah," stout stiff 
mats used for hutting and bedding, are spread for 
comfort upon the seats ; and for convenience of pad- 
dling, the sailors, when at work, incline their bodies 
over the sides. The space under the seats is used for 
stowage. In the centre there is a square place, about 
six feet long, left clear of benches ; here also cargo 
is stored, passengers, cattle, and slaves litter down, the 
paddles, gourds, and other furniture of the crew are 
thrown, and the baling is carried on by means of an old 
gourd. The hold is often ankle-deep in water, and affords 
no convenience for leaning or lying down ; the most 
comfortable place, therefore, is near the stern or the 
bow of the boat. The spears are planted upright amid- 
ships, at one or two corners of the central space so as 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to be ready at a moment's notice ; each man usually 
has his dagger stuck in his belt, and on long trips all are 
provided with bows and arrows. These Africans cannot 
row ; indeed they will not use oars. The paddle on the 
Tanganyika is a stout staff, about six feet long, and cut 
out at the top to admit a trefoil-shaped block the size of 
a man's hand:— it was described in South Africa by Cap- 
tain Owen. The block, adorned with black paint in 
triangular patches, is lashed to the staff by a bit of whip- 
cord, and it seldom lasts through the day without break- 
ing away from its frail tackling. The paddlcr, placing one 
hand on the top and the other about the middle of the 
staff, scoops up as it were, the water in front of him, 
steadying his paddle by drawing it along the side of the 
canoe. The eternal splashing keeps the boat wet. It 
is a laborious occupation, and an excessive waste of 
power. 

The Lake People derive their modern pract ice of navi- 
gation, doubtless, from days of old; the earliest accounts 
of the Portuguese mention the traffic of this inland sea. 
They have three principal beats from Ujiji : the northern 
abuts at the ivory and slave marts of Uvira ; the western 
conducts to the opposite shores of the Lake and the island 
depots on the south-west ; and the southern leads to the 
land of Marunga. Their canoes creep along the shores 
like the hollowed elders of thirty bygone centuries, and, 
waiting till the weather augurs fairly, they make a des- 
perate push for the other side. Nothing but their ex- 
treme timidity, except when emboldened by the prospect 
of aspeedy return home, preserves their cranky craft from 
constant accidents. The Arabs, warned by the past, 
rarely trust themselves to this Lake of Storms, preferring 
the certain .peculation incurred by deputing for trading 
purposes agents and slaves to personal risk. Those who 



Digitized b) 



THE "SON OF NOISE." 



U7 



must voyage on the lake build, by means of their menials 
and artisans, dows, or sailing-vessels, and teach their 
newly-bought gangs to use oars instead of paddles. This 
is rather an economy of money than of time : they ex- 
pend six months upon making the dow, whereas they can 
buy the largest canoe for a few farasilah of ivory. 

As my outfit was already running low, I persuaded, 
before departure, two of the Baloch to return with a 
down-caravan westwards, and arrived at Unyanyembe, 
to communicate personally with my agent, Snay bin 
Amir. They agreed so to do, but the Mtongi, or 
head of the African kafilah, with true African futi- 
lity, promised to take them on the next day, and set 
out that night on his journey. As Said- bin Majid 
was about despatching a large armed party to the north 
of the Lake, I then hurried on my preparations for the 
voyage. Provisions and tobacco were laid in, the tent 
was repaired, and our outfit, four half loads of salt — of 
these two were melted in the canoe, six Gorah, — or one 
load of domestics, nine coil-bracelets, the remainder of 
our store, one load of blue porcelain beads, and a small 
bag of the valuable red coral intended for private ex- 
penses, and " El Akibah " (the reserve), was properly 
packed for concealment. Meanwhile some trifling dis- 
putes occurred with Kannena, who was in the habit of 
coming to our Tembe, drunk and surly, with eyes like 
two gouts of blood, knitted front, and lips viciously shot 
out: when contradicted or opposed, he screamed and 
gesticulated as if haunted by hisP'hepo, — his fiend; — and 
when very evilly disposed, he would proceed to the ex- 
treme measure of cutting down a tent. This slave-sultan 
was a " son of noise :" he affected brusquerie of manner 
and violence of demeanour the better to impressionise 
his unruly subjects ; and he frightened the timid souls 

VOL. II. H 



Digitized by Google 



98 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



around us, till at last the Jemadar's phrase was, 
" strength is useless here." Had I led, however, three 
hundred instead of thirty matchlocks, he would have 
crouched and cowered like a whipped cur. 

At 4 p.m., on the 9th April, appeared before the 
Kannena in a tattered red turban donned for the oc- 
casion. He was accompanied by his ward, who was 
to perform the voyage as a training to act sultan, and 
he was followed by his sailors bearing salt, in company 
with their loud-voiced wives and daughters performing 
upon the wildest musical instruments. Of these the 
most noisy was a kind of shaum, a straight, long and 
narrow tube of wood, bound with palm-fibre and pro- 
vided with an opening mouth like a clarionet ; a dis- 
tressing bray is kept up by blowing through a hole 
pierced in the side. The most monotonous was a pair of 
foolscap-shaped plates of thin iron, joined at the apices and 
connected at the bases by a solid cross-bar of the same 
metal ; this rude tomtom is performed upon by a muffled 
stick with painful perseverance ; the sound — how harshly 
it intruded upon the stilly beauty of the scenes around ! 
— still lingers and long shall linger in my tympanum. 
The canoe had been moved from its usual position opposite 
our Tembe, to a place of known departure — otherwise 
not a soul could have been persuaded to embark — and 
ignoring the distance, I condemned myself to a hobble of 
three miles over rough and wet ground. The night was 
comfortless; the crew, who were all "half-seas over," 
made the noise of bedlamites ; and two heavy falls of 
rain drenching the flimsy tent, at once spoiled the 
tobacco and flour, the grain and the vegetables pre- 
pared for the voyage. 

Early on the next morning we embarked on board 
the canoes: the crews had been collected, paid, and 
rationed, but as long as they were near home it was 



Digitized by Google 



THE VOYAGE-START. 



99 



impossible to keep them together. Each man thinking 
solely of his own affairs, and disdaining the slightest 
regard for the wishes, the comfort, or the advantage of 
his employers, they objected systematically to every 
article which I had embarked. Kannena had filled the 
canoes with his and his people's salt, consequently he 
would not carry even a cartel. Various points settled 
we hove anchor or rather hauled up the block of granite 
doing anchoral duty, and with the usual hubbub and strife, 
the orders which every man gives and the advice which 
no man takes, we paddled in half an hour to a shingly 
and grassy creek, defended by a sandpit and backed by 
a few tall massive trees. Opposjte and but a few yards 
distant, rose the desert islet of Bangwe, a quoin-shaped 
mass of sandstone and red earth, bluff to the north and 
gradually shelving towards the water at the other 
extremity : the prolific moisture above and around had 
covered its upper ledge with a coat of rich thick vege- 
tation. Landward the country rises above the creek, 
and upon its earth-waves, which cultivation shares with 
wild growth, appear a few scattered hamlets. 

Boats generally waste some days at Bangwe Bay, the 
stage being short enough for the usual scene being en- 
cored. They load and reload, trim cargo, complete rations, 
collect crews, and take leave of friends and relatives, 
women, and palm-wine. We pitched a tent and halted 
in a tornado of wind and rain. Kannena would not 
move without the present of one of our three goats. 
At 4 p.m., on the 11th April, the canoes were laden 
and paddled out to and back from Bangwe islet, when 
those knowing in such matters pronounced them so 
heavily weighted as to be unsafe : whereupon, the 
youth Riza, sorely against my will, was sent back to the 
Kawele. On that night a furious gale carried away my 



Digitized by Google 



100 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tent, whilst the Goanese were, or pretended to be, out of 
hearing. I slept, however, comfortably enough upon the 
crest of a sand -wave higher than the puddles around 
it, and — blessings on the name of Mackintosh ! — 
escaped the pitiless pelting of the rain. 

The next morning showed a calm sea, levelled by the 
showers, and no pretext or desire for longer detention 
lingered in the hearts of the crew. At 7*20 a.m., on 
the 12th April, 1858, my canoe — bearing for the first 
time on those dark waters — 

" The flag that braved a thousand years 
The battle and the breeze" 

stood out of Bang we Bay, and followed by my com- 
panion's turned the landspit separating the bight from the 
main, and made directly for the cloudy and storm-vexed 
north. The eastern shore of the lake, along which we 
coasted, was a bluff of red earth pudding'd with separate 
blocks of sandstone. Beyond this headland the coast 
dips, showing lines of shingle or golden-coloured 
quartzose sand, and on the shelving plain appear the 
little fishing-villages. They are usually built at the 
mouths of the gaps, combes, and gullies, whose deep 
gorges winding through the background of hill-curtain, 
become, after rains, the beds of mountain-torrents. The 
wretched settlements are placed between the tree clad 
declivities and the shore on which the waves break. The 
sites are far from comfortable : the ground is here veiled 
with thick and fetid grass ; there it is a puddle of black 
mud, and there a rivulet trickles through the villages. 
The hamlet consists of half a dozen beehive-huts, foul, 
flimsy, and leaky ; their only furniture is a hearth of 
three clods or stones, with a few mats and fishing im- 
plements. The settlements are distinguished from a 
... . 

• • • e . 

i • ¦ mm 

» • 



Digitized by 



BOATING ON THE TANGANYIKA. 101 

distance by their plantations of palm and plantain, and 
by large spreading trees, from whose branches are sus- 
pended the hoops and the drag-nets not in actual use, 
and under whose shade the people sit propped against 
their monoxyles, which are drawn high up out of danger 
of the surf. There was no trade, and few provisions were 
procurable at Kigari. We halted there to rest, and pitch- 
ing a tent in the thick grass we spent a night loud with 
wind and rain. 

Rising at black dawn on the 13th April, the crews 
rowed hard for six hours between Kigari and another 
dirty little fishing-village called Nyasanga. The set- 
tlement supplied fish-fry, but neither grain nor vegeta- 
bles were offered for sale. At this place, the frontier 
district between Ujiji and Urundi, our Wajiji took leave 
of their fellow-clansmen and prepared with serious 
countenances for all the perils of expatriation. 

This is the place for a few words concerning boating 
and voyaging upon the Tanganyika Lakes. The Wajiji, 
and indeed all these races, never work silently or re- 
gularly. The paddling is accompanied by a long mono- 
tonous melancholy howl, answered by the yells and 
shouts of the chorus, and broken occasionally by a shrill 
scream of delight from the boys which seems violently to 
excite the adults. The bray and clang of the horns, 
shaums, and tomtoms, blown and banged incessantly 
by one or more men in the bow of each canoe, made 
worse by brazen-lunged imitations of these intruments 
in the squeaking trebles of the younger paddlers, 
lasts throughout the livelong day, except when terror 
induces a general silence. These " Wana Maji " — 
sons of water — work in " spirts," applying lustily to 
the task till the perspiration pours down their sooty 
persons. Despite my remonstrances, they insisted upon 

H 3 



Digitized by Google 



102 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



splashing the water in shovelsful over the canoe. 
They make terribly long faces, however, they tremble 
like dogs in a storm of sleet, and they are ready to 
whimper when compelled by sickness or accident to sit 
with me under the endless cold wave-bath in the hold. 
After a few minutes of exertion, fatigued and worn, 
they stop to quarrel, or they progress languidly till 
recruited for another effort. When two boats are 
together they race continually till a bump — the signal for 
a general grin — and the difficulty of using the entangled 
paddles afford an excuse for a little loitering, and for the 
loud chatter, and violent abuse, without which ap- 
parently this people cannot holcl converse. At times 
they halt to eat, drink, and smoke : the bhang-pipe is 
produced after every hour, and the paddles are taken 
in whilst they indulge in the usual screaming convul- 
sive whooping-cough. They halt for their own purposes 
but not for ours ; all powers of persuasion fail when 
they are requested to put into a likely place for col- 
lecting shells or stones.* For some superstitious reason 

• Tbb following Paper bt S. P. Woodward, F.G.S., communicated bt 
Prof. Owen, appeared in tbb Proceedings op the Zoological So- 
ciety op London, June 28, 1859. 

The four shells which form the subject of the present note were collected 
by Captain Speke in the great freshwater lake Tanganyika in Central 
Africa. 

The large bivalve belongs to the genus Iridina, Lamarck, — a group of 
river mussels, of which there are nine reputed species, all belonging to the 
African continent. This little group has been divided into several sub-genera. 
That to which the new shell belongs is distinguished by its broad and deeply- 
wrinkled hinge-line, and is called Pleiodon by Conrud. The posterior slope 
of this shell is encrusted with tufa, as if there were limestone rocks in the 
vicinity of its habitat. 

The small bivalve is a normal Unio, with finely sculptured valves. 

The smaller univalve is concave beneath, and so much resembles a Nerita 
or Calyplraa that it would be taken for a sea-shell if its history were not well 
authenticated. It agrees essentially with Lithoglyphtu> — a genus peculiar 



Digitized by Google 



SAILORS' SUPERSTITIONS. 



103 



they allow no questions to be asked, they will not dip 
a pot for water into the lake, fearing to be followed 

to the Danube ; for the American sheik referred to it are probably, or, I may 
say, certainly distinct It agrees with the Danubian shells in the extreme 
obliquity of the aperture, and differs in the width of the umbilicus, which in 
the European species is nearly concealed by the callous columellar lip. 

In the Upper Eocene Tertiaries of the Isle of Wight there are several 
estuary shells, forming the genus Globulus, Sow., whose affinities are uncer- 
tain, but which resemble Lithogly/>hus. 

The lake Tanganyika (situated in lat. 3° to 8° S. and long. 30° E.), which 
is several hundred miles in length and 30 to 40 in breadth, seems entirely 
disconnected with the region of the Danube : but the separation may not al- 
ways have been so complete, for there is another great lake, Nyanza, to the 
northward of Tanganyika, which is believed by Speke to be the principal 
source of the Nile. 

The other univalve is a Melanin, of the sub-genus Melanella (Swainson), 
similar in shape to M. hollandi of S. Europe, and similar to several Eocene 
species of the Isle of Wight. Its colour, solidity, and tuberculated ribs give 
it much the appearance of a small marine whelk (Nassa) ; and it is found in 
more boisterous waters, on the shores of this great inland sea, than most of 
its congeners inhabit. 

I. Isidina (Pleiodow) Spekii, n. sp. (PI. XL VII. fig. 2.) 

Shell oblong, ventricose, somewhat attenuated at each end : base slightly 
concave ; epidermis chestnut brown, deepening to black at the margin ; an- 
terior slope obscurely radiated ; hinge-line compressed in front and tubercu- 
lated, wider behind and deeply wrinkled. 

Length 4J, breadth 2, thickness 1} inches. 

Testa oblonga, tumida, extremitattbris fere attenuata, bast subarcuata ; epi- 
dermide castaneo-fusca, marginem versus nigricante; linea cardinali antice 
compressa tuberctdala, postice latiore, paucis rugis arata. 

2. Unio Bdrtoni, n. sp. (PI. XLVII. fig. 1.) 

Shell small, oval, rather thin, somewhat pointed behind ; umbones small, 
not eroded ; pale olive, concentrically furrowed, and sculptured more or less 
with fine divaricating lines ; anterior teeth narrow, not prominent ; posterior 
teeth laminar ; pedal scar confluent with anterior adductor. 

Length 12, breadth 8$, thickness 5$ lines. 

Testa parva, oralis, tenuiuscula, postice subatienuata ; umbonibus parvis, 
acuminatis ; epidemtide pallide olivacea ; valvis lineolis dioaricotis, decuss' 
atum exaratis; dentibus cardinalibus angiistis, haud prominentibus. 

3. Litboglvphus zonatus, n. sp. (PI. XLVII. fig. 3.) 

Shell orbicular, hemispherical ; spire very small ; aperture large, very ob- 
lique ; umbilicus wide and shallow, with an open fissure in the young shell ; 
lip continuous in front with the umbilical ridge ; columella callous, ultimately 

u 1 



Digitized by Google 



1C4 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and perhaps boarded by crocodiles, which are hated 
and dreaded by these black navigators, much as is the 

covering the fissure ; body- whirl flattened, pale olivaceous, with two brown 
bands, darker at the apex ; lines of growth crossed by numerous oblique, 
interrupted striae. 

Diameter 5-6, height 3 lines. 

Testa orbicularis, hemisph&rica, late umbilicata (apud juniores rimata), spira 
minuta ; apertura magna, valde obliqua ; labio callow (m testa adulta rimam 
tegente) ; paUide olivacea, fasciis duabxts fuscis zonata ; lineis incrementi 
striolis interruptis oblique decussatis. 

4. Melaxia (Mklajnella) nassa, n. sp. (PI. XLVTI. fig. 4.) 

Shell ovate, strong, pale brown, with (sometimes) two dark bands ; spire 
shorter than the aperture ; whirls flattened, ornamented with six brown spiral 
ridges crossed with a variable number of white, tuberculated, transverse 
ribs ; base of body-whirl eight with tuberculated spiral ridges variegated 
with white and brown ; aperture sinuated in front ; outer lip simple ; inner 
lip callous. 

Length 8 J, breadth 5$ lines. 

Testa ovataj solida, pallide fusca, zonis 2 nigricantibus aliquando notata ; 
spira apertura breviore; anfractibus planulatis, lineis 6 fuscis spiralibus et 
costis tuberculoids ornatis; apertura antice sinuata; labro simplici ; labio 
catloso. 

P.S. July 27th. — In addition to the foregoing sheila, several others were 
collected by Capt. Speke, when employed, under the command of Capt. 
Burton, in exploring Central Africa in the years 1856-9 ; these were deposited 
in the first instance with the Geographical Society, and are now transferred 
to the British Museum. 

A specimen of AmpuUaria (Lanistes) sinistrorsa. Lea, and odd valves of 
two species of Unio, both smooth and olive-coloured, were picked up in the 
Ugogo district, an elevated plateau in lat. 6° to 7° S., long. 34° to 35° E. 

A large Achatina, most nearly related to A. glutinosa, Pfr., is the "com- 
mon snail " of the region between lake Tanganyika and the east coast. 
Fossil specimens were obtained in the Usagara district, at a place called 
Marora, 3000 feet above the sea, overlooking the Lu6ji River, where it in- 
tersects the coast range (lat. 7° to 8° S., long. 36° to 36° E.). 

Another common land snail of the same district is the well known " Buli- 
mus caillaudi, Pfr.," a shell more nearly related to Achatina than Bulimus. 

Captain Speke also found a solitary example of Bulimus ovoideus y Brug., 
in a musjid on the island of Kiloa (lat. 9° S., long. 39° to 40° E.). This 
species is identical with B. grandis, Desh., from the island of Nosse Be*, 
Madagascar, and very closely allied to B. liberianus> Lea, from Guinea. 



Digitized by Google 



CAPTAIN BALFOUK. 105 

shark by our seamen, and for the same cause not a 
scrap of food must be thrown overboard — even the offal 
must be cast into the hold. " Whittling " is here a 
mortal sin: to chip or break off the smallest bit of 
even a condemned old tub drawn up on the beach causes 
a serious disturbance. By the advice of a kind and 
amiable friend*, I had supplied myself with the de- 
siderata for sounding and ascertaining the bottom of the 
Lake : the crew would have seen me under water rather 
than halt for a moment when it did not suit their purpose. 
The wild men lose half an hour, when time is most 
precious, to secure a dead fish as it floats past the canoe 
entangled in its net. They never pass a village without 
a dispute ; some wishing to land, others objecting be- 
cause some wish it. The Captain, who occupies some 
comfortable place in the bow, stern, or waist, has little 
authority ; and if the canoe be allowed to touch the 

* Captain Hal four, H.M.I.N., who kindly supplied me with a list of ne- 
cessaries for sail«making and other such operations on the Lake. I had in- 
dented upon the Engineers' Stores, Bombay, for a Massey's patent or self- 
registering log, which would have been most useful had the people allowed it 
to be used. Prevented by stress of business from testing it in India, I found 
it at sea so thoroughly defective, that it was returned from whence it came by 
the good aid of Captain Frushard, then commanding the H.E.I.C.'s sloop of 
war Elphiiutone. I then prepared at Zanzibar, a line and a lead, properly 
hollowed to admit of its being armed, and this safely reached the Tangan- 
yika Lake. It was not useless but unused : the crew objected to its being 
hove, and moreover — lead and metal are never safe in Central Africa — the line, 
which was originally short, was curtailed of one half during the first night 
after our departure from Kawele. It is by no means easy to estimate the 
rate of progress in these barbarous canoes barbarously worked. During the 
14 spirts " when the paddler bends his back manfully to his task, a fully- 
manned craft may attain a maximum of 7 to 8 miles per hour : this exertion, 
however, rarely exceeds a quarter of an hour, and is always followed by delay. 
The usual pace, when all are fresh and cool, is about 4 to 5 miles, which de- 
clines through 4 and 3 to 2$, when the men are fatigued, or when the sun is 
high. The medium, therefore, may be assumed at 4 miles for short, and a 
little more than 2 miles an hour for long trips, halts deducted. 



Digitized by Google 



106 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

shore, its men will spring out without an idea of con- 
sulting aught beyond their own inclinations. Arrived 
at the halting-place they pour on shore ; some proceed 
to gather firewood, others go in search of rations, and 
others raise the booth ies. A dozen barked sticks of 
various lengths are planted firmly in the ground ; 
the ends are bent and lashed together in the shape of 
half an orange, by strips of tree-fibre ; they are then 
covered with the karagwah— the stiff-reed mats used as 
cushions when paddling — these are tightly bound on, and 
thus a hut is made capable of defending from rain the 
bodies of four or five men whose legs which project 
beyond the shelter are apparently not supposed to re- 
quire covering. Obeying only impulse, and wholly 
deficient in order and purpose, they make the voyage as 
uncomfortable as possible ; they have no regular stages 
and no fixed halting-places ; they waste a fine cool 
morning, and pull through the heat of the day, or after 
dozing throughout the evening, at the loud cry of 
" Pakira Baba ! " — pack up, hearties ! — they scramble 
into their canoes about midnight. Outward-bound 
they seek opportunities for delay ; when it is once " up 
anchor for home," they hurry with dangerous haste. 

On the 14th April, a cruise of four hours conducted 
us to Wafanya, a settlement of Wajiji mixed with 
Warundi. Leaving this wretched mass of hovels on the 
next day, which began with a solemn warning from 
Sayfu — a man of melancholic temperament — we made 
in four hours Wafanya, the southern limit of Urundi, 
and the only port in that inhospitable land still open to 
travellers. Drawing up our canoes upon a clear narrow 
sandstrip beyond the reach of the surf, we ascended a 
dwarf earth-cliff, and pitching our tents under a spread- 
ing tree upon the summit, we made ourselves as corn- 



Digitized 



THE INHOSPITABLE WARUXDI. 



107 



fortable as the noisy, intrusive, and insolent crowd, as- 
sembled to stare and to laugh at the strangers, would 
permit. The crew raised their boothies within a stone- 
throw of the water, flight being here the thought ever 
uppermost in their minds. 

The people of this country are a noisy insolent race, 
addicted, like all their Lakist brethren, to drunkenness, 
and, when drunk, quarrelsome and violent. At Wafanya, 
however, they are kept in order by Kanoni, their mut- 
ware or minor chief, subject to " Mwezi," the mwami or 
sultan of Urundi. The old man appeared, when we 
reached his settlement, in some state, preceded by an 
ancient carrying his standard, a long wisp of white fibre 
attached to a spear, like the Turkish 44 horse-tail," and 
followed by a guard of forty or fifty stalwart young war- 
riors armed with stout lance-like spears for stabbing and 
throwing, straight double-edged daggers, stiff bows, and 
heavy, grinded arrows. Kanoni began by receiving 
his black-mail — four cloths, two coil-bracelets, and three 
fundo of coral beads: the return was the inevitable 
goat. The climate of Wafanya is alternately a damp- 
cold and a 44 muggy" heat; the crews, however, if 
numerous and well armed, will delay here to feed when 
northward bound, and to lay in provisions when return- 
ing to their homes. Sheep and fine fat goats vary in 
value from one to two cloths ; a fowl, or five to six eggs, 
costs a khete of beads ; sweet potatoes are somewhat 
dearer than at Ujiji ; there is no rice, but holcus and 
manioc are cheap and abundant, about 5 lbs. of the 
latter being sold for a single khete. Even milk is at 
times procurable. A sharp business is carried on in 
chikichi or palm-oil, of which a large earthen pot is 
bought for a cloth ; the best paddles used by the crews 
are made at Wafanya ; and the mbugu, or bark-cloth, 



Digitized by Google 



108 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



is bought for four to ten khete, about one third of the 
market-price at Ujiji. Salt, being imported from 
Uvinza, is dear and scarce : it forms the first demand 
for barter, and beads the second. Large fish is offered 
for sale, but the small fry is the only article of the kind 
which is to be purchased fresh. The country owes its 
plenty, according to the guides, to almost perennial 
showers. 

The inhospitality of the Warundi and their northern 
neighbours, who would plunder a canoe or insist upon 
a black-mail equivalent to plunder, allows neither traffic 
nor transit to the north of Wafanya. Here, therefore, 
the crews prepare to cross the Tanganyika, which is 
divided into two stages by the island of Ubwari. 

In Ubwari I had indeed discovered "an island 
far away." It is probably the place alluded to by 
the Portuguese historian, De Barros, in this important 
passage concerning the great lake in the centre of 
Africa : " It is a sea of such magnitude as to be capable 
of being navigated by many sail ; and among the islands 
in it there is one capable of sending forth an army of 
30,000 men." Ubwari appears from a distance of two days 
bearing north-west ; it is then somewhat hazy, owing to 
the extreme humidity of the atmosphere. From Wa- 
fanya it shows a clear profile about eighteen to twenty 
miles westward, and the breadth of the western channel 
between it and the mainland averages from six to seven 
miles. Its north point lies in south lat. 4° 7', and the lay 
is N. 17° E. (corrected). From the northern point of 
Ubwari the eastern prolongation of the lake bears N. 
3° W. and the western N. 10° W. It is the only 
island near the centre of the Tanganyika — a long, 
narrow lump of rock, twenty to twenty-five geo- 
graphical miles long, by four or five of extreme 
breadth, with a high longitudinal spine, like a hog's 



THE u ISLAND FAR AWAY." 



101) 



back, falling towards the water — here shelving, 
there steep, on the sea-side — where it ends in abrupt 
cliffs, here and there broken by broad or narrow 
gorges. Green from head to foot, in richness and profuse- 
ness of vegetation it equals, and perhaps excels, the 
shores of the Tanganyika, and in parts it appears care- 
fully cultivated. Mariners dare not disembark on 
Ubwari, except at the principal places ; and upon the 
wooded hill-sides wild men are, or are supposed to be, 
ever lurking in wait for human prey. 

We halted two miserable days at Wafanya. The 
country is peculiarly rich, dotted with numerous hamlets, 
which supply provisions, and even milk, and divided 
•into dense thickets, palm-groves, and large clear- 
ings of manioc, holcus, and sweet potatoes, which 
mantle like a garment the earths brown body. Here 
we found Kannena snugly ensconced in our sepoy's pal, 
or ridge-tent. He had privily obtained it from Said 
bin Salim, with a view to add to his and his ward's 
comfort and dignity. When asked to give it up — we were 
lodging, I under a lug-sail, brought from the coast 
and converted into an awning, and my companion in 
the wretched flimsy article purchased from the Fundi — 
he naively refused. Presently having seen a fat sheep, he 
came to me declaring that it was his perquisite : more- 
over, he insisted upon receiving the goat offered to us by 
the Sultan Kanoni. I at first demurred. His satis- 
factory rejoinder was : " Ngema, ndugu yango ! — 
Well, my brother, — here we remain!" I consulted 
Bombay about the necessity of humouring him in every 
whim. " What these jungle-niggers want," quoth my 
counsel, "that they will have, or they will see the 
next month's new moon ! " 

The morning of the 18th April was dark and mena- 
cing. Huge purpling clouds deformed the face of the 



Digitized by Google 



110 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



northern sky. Having loaded the canoes, however, 
we embarked to cross the channel which separated us 
from the Ubwari island. As the paddles were in hand, 
the crew, starting up from their benches, landed to bring 
on board some forgotten manioc. My companion re- 
mained in his boat, I in mine. Presently, hearing an 
unusual uproar, I turned round and saw the sailors 
arming themselves, whilst the " curtain-lion," Khuda- 
bakhsb, was being hustled with blows, and pushed up 
the little cliff by a host of black, spearmen ; a naked 
savage the while capering about, waving the Baloch's 
bare blade in one hand and its scabbard in the other. 
Kannena joined majestically in the "row," but the 
peals of laughter from the mob showed no signs 
of anger. A Mjiji slave, belonging to Khuda- 
bakhsh had, it appears, taken flight, after landing 
unobserved with the crowd. The brave had redemanded 
him of Kannena, whom he charged, moreover, with aid- 
ing and abetting the desertion. The slave Sultan offered 
to refer the point to me, but the valiant man, losing 
patience, out with his sword, and was instantly dis- 
armed, assaulted, and battered, as above described, by 
forty or fifty sailors. When quiet was restored, I 
called to him from the boat. He replied by refusing to 
" budge an inch," and by summoning his " brother " 
Jelai to join him with bag and baggage. Kannena 
also used soft words, till at last, weary of waiting, he 
gave orders to put off, throwing two cloths to Khuda- 
bakhsh, that the fellow might not returu home hungry. 
I admired his generosity till compelled to pay for it. 

The two Baloch were like mules; they disliked the 
voyage, and as it was the Ramazan, they added to their 
discomforts by pretending to fast. Their desertion was in- 
excusable ; they left us wholly in the power of the Wajiji, 



Digitized by Google 



THE BALOCII AGAIN DESERT. 



Ill 



to dangers and difficultieswhich they themselvescould not 
endure. Prudent Orientals, I may again observe, never 
commit themselves to the sole custody of Africans, even of 
the " Muwallid," namely those born and bred in their 
houses. In Persia the traveller is careful to mix the 
black blood with that of the higher race ; formerly, 
whenever the member of a family was found murdered, 
the serviles were all tortured as a preliminary to inves- 
tigation, and many stories, like the following, are re- 
counted. The slaves had left their master in complete 
security, and were sitting, in early night, merrily chat- 
ting round the camp fire. Presently one began to 
relate the list of their grievances ; another proposed to 
end them by desertion; and a third seconded the motion, 
opining, however, that they might as well begin by 
murdering the patroon. No sooner said than done. 
These children of passion and instinct, in the shortest 
interim, act out the 44 dreadful thing," and as readily 
repent when reflection returns. The Arab, therefore, 
in African lands, seldom travels with Africans only ; he 
prefers collecting as many companions, and bringing as 
many hangers on as he can afford. The best escort to 
a European capable of communicating with and com- 
manding them, would be a small party of Arabs fresh 
from Hazramaut and untaught in the ways and tongues 
of Africa. ' They would by forming a kind of balance of 
power, prevent that daring pilfering for which slaves are 
infamous ; in the long run they would save money to 
the explorer, and perhaps save his life. 

Khudabakhsh and his comrade-deserter returned 
safely by land to Kawele ; and when derided by the other 
men, he repeated, as might be expected, notable griefs. 
Both had performed prodogies of valour ; they had 
however been mastered by millions. Then they had 



Digitized by Google 



112 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

called upon " Haji Abdullah " for assistance, to which 
he had replied " My power does not extend here ! " Thus 
heartlessly refused aid by the only person who could 
and should have afforded it, they were reduced, sorely 
against their will, to take leave of him. Their tale was 
of course believed by their comrades, till the crews 
brought back the other version of the affair, the " camel- 
hearts " then once more became the laugh and jibe of 
man and woman. 

After a short consultation amongst the men concern- 
ing the threatening aspect of the heavens, it was agreed 
by them to defer crossing the Lake till the next day. 
We therefore passed on to the northern side of the 
point which limits the bay of Wafanya, and anchoring 
the craft in a rushy bayou, we pitched tents in time to 
protect us against a violent thunderstorm with its 
wind and rain. 

On the 19th April we stretched westward, towards 
Ubwari, which appeared a long strip of green directly 
opposite Urundi, and distant from eighteen to twenty 
miles. A little wind caused a heavy chopping swell ; 
we were wet to the skin, and as noon drew nigh, the sun 
shone stingingly, reflected by a mirrory sea. At 10 a.m. 
the party drew in their paddles and halted to eat 
and smoke. About 2 p.m. the wind and waves again 
arose, — once more we were drenched, and the frail 
craft was constantly baled out to prevent water-logging. 
A long row of nine hours placed the canoes at a road- 
stead, with the usual narrow line of yellow sand, on the 
western coast of Ubwari Island. The men landed to 
dry themselves, and to cook some putrid fish which they 
had caught as it floated past the canoe, with the reed 
triangle that buoyed up the net. It was "strong 
meat" to us, but to them its staleness was as the " taste 
in his butter," to the Londoner, the pleasing toughness 



Digitized by 



TIIE WABWAKI ISLANDERS. 



113 



of the old cock to the Arab, and the savoury " fumet " 
of the aged he-goat to the Baloch. After a short halt, 
we moved a little northwards to Mzimu, a strip of 
low land dividing the waters from their background of 
grassy rise, through which a swampy line winds from 
the hills above. Here we found canoes drawn up, and 
the islanders flocked from their hamlets to change their 
ivory and slaves, goats and provisions, for salt and beads, 
wire and cloth. The Wabwari are a peculiar, and by 
no means a comely race. The men are habited in the 
usual mbugu, tigered with black stripes, and tailed 
like leopard-skins : a wisp of fine grass acts as fillet, and 
their waists, wrists, and ankles, their knob-sticks, spears, 
and daggers, are bound with rattan-bark, instead of the 
usual wire. The women train their frizzly locks into 
two side-bits resembling bear's ears ; they tie down the 
bosom with a cord, apparently for the purpose of distort- 
ing nature in a way that is most repulsive to European 
eyes ; and they clothe themselves with the barbarous 
goat-skin, or the scantiest kilts of bark-cloth. The 
wives of the chiefs wear a load of brass and bead or- 
naments; and, like the ladies of Wafanya, they walk 
about with patriarchal staves five feet long, and knobbed 
at the top. 

We halted for a day at Mzimu in Ubwari, where 
Kannena demanded seventy khete of blue-porcelain 
beads as his fee for safe conduct to the island. Sud- 
denly, at 6 p.m., he informed me that he must move to 
other quarters. We tumbled into the boats, and after 
enjoying two hours of pleasant progress with a northerly 
current, and a splendid moonshine, which set off a scene 
at once wild and soft as any 

M That savage Rosa dashed, or learned Poussin drew," 
VOL. II. I 



Digitized by Google 



114 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



wc rounded the bluff northern point of the island, put 
into " Mtuwwa," a little bay on its western shore, 
pitched the tent, and slept at ease. 

Another halt was required on the 22nd April. The 
Sultan Kisesa demanded his blackmail, which amounted 
to one coil-bracelet and two cloths ; provisions were 
hardly procurable, because his subjects wanted white 
beads, with which, being at a discount at Ujiji, we had 
not provided ourselves ; and Kannena again success- 
fully put in a tyrannical claim for 460 khete of blue- 
porcelains to purchase rations. 

On the 23rd April we left Mtuwwa, and made for 
the opposite or western shore of the lake, which appeared 
about fifteen miles distant ; the day's work was nine 
hours. The two canoes paddled far apart, there was 
therefore little bumping, smoking, or quarrelling, till 
near our destination. At Murivumba the malaria, the 
mosquitoes, the crocodiles, and the men are equally feared. 
The land belongs to the Wabembe, who are correctly 
described in the "Mombas Mission Map" as "Menschcn- 
fresser — anthropophagi." The practice arises from 
the savage and apathetic nature of the people, who 
devour, besides man, all kinds of carrion and vermin, 
grubs and insects, whilst they abandon to wild growths 
a land of the richest soil and of the most prolific climate. 
They prefer man raw, whereas the Wadoe of the coast 
eat him roasted. The people of a village which backed 
the port, assembled as usual to "sow gape-seed;" but 
though 

" A hungry look hung upon them all/* — 

and amongst cannibals one always fancies oneself con- 
sidered in the light of butcher's meat, — the poor devils, 
dark and stunted, timid and degraded, appeared less 



Digitized by 



MURIVUMBA OP THE MAtf-EATERS. 



115 



dangerous to the living than to the dead. In order to 
keep them quiet, the bull-headed Mabruki, shortly before 
dusk, fired a charge of duck-shot into the village; 
ensued loud cries and deprecations to the " Murun- 
gwana," but happily no man was hurt. Sayfu the 
melancholist preferred squatting through the night on 
the bow of the canoe, to trusting his precious person 
on shore. We slept upon a reed-margined spit of sand, 
and having neglected to pitch the tent, were rained 
upon to our heart's content. 

We left Murivumba of the man-eaters early on the 
morning of the 24th April, and stood northwards along 
the western shore of the Lake : the converging trend of 
the two coasts told that we were fast approaching our 
destination. After ten hours' paddling, halts included, 
we landed at the southern frontier of Uvira, in a place 
called Mamaletua, Ngovi, and many other names. 
Here the stream of commerce begins to set strong; the 
people were comparatively civil, they cleared for us a 
leaky old hut with a floor like iron,— it appeared to 
us a palace! — and they supplied, at moderate prices, 
sheep and goats, lish-fry, eggs, and poultry, grain, 
manioc and bird-pepper. 

After another long stretch of fifteen rainy and sunny 
hours, a high easterly wind compelled the hard-worked 
crews to put into Muikamba ( ?) of Uvira. A neigh- 
bouring hamlet, a few hovels built behind a thick wind- 
wrung plantain-grove, backed a reed-locked creek, 
where the canoes floated in safety and a strip of clean 
sand on which we passed the night as pleasantly as the 
bright moonlight and the violent gusts would permit. 
On the 26th April, a paddle of three hours and a half 
landed us in the forenoon at the sandy baystand, where 
the trade of Uvira is carried on. 

i 2 



Digitized by Google 



11 G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Great rejoicings ushered in the end of our outward- 
bound voyage. Crowds gathered on the shore to gaze at 
the new merchants arriving at Uvira, with the usual 
concert, vocal and instrumental, screams, shouts, and 
songs, shaums, horns, and tom-toms. The captains of 
the two canoes performed with the most solemn gravity 
a bear-like dance upon the mat-covered benches, which 
form the "quarter-decks," extending their arms, pirouet- 
ting upon both heels, and springing up and squatting 
down till their hams touched the mats. The crews, 
with a general grin which showed all their ivories, 
rattled their paddles against the sides of their canoes in 
token of greeting, a custom derived probably from the 
ceremonious address of the Lakists, which is performed 
by rapping their elbows against their 1 ribs. Presently 
Majid and Bekkari, two Arab youths sent from Ujiji by 
their chief, Said bin Majid, to collect ivory, came out to 
meet me ; they gave me, as usual, the news, and said 
that having laid in the store of tusks required, they 
intended setting out southwards on the morrow. We 
passed half the day of our arrival on the bare landing- 
place, a strip of sand foully unclean, from the effect 
of many bivouacs. It is open to the water and backed 
by the plain of Uvira ; one of the broadest of these edges 
of gently-inclined ground which separate the Lake from 
its trough of hills. Kannena at once visited the 
Mwami or Sultan Maruta, who owns a village on a 
neighbouring elevation ; this chief invited me to his 
settlement, but the outfit was running low and the 
crew and party generally feared to leave their canoes. 
We therefore pitched our tents upon the sand, and pre- 
pared for the last labour, that of exploring the head of 
the Lake. 

We had now reached the " ne plus ultra," the north- 



Digitized by 



WE DO NOT EXPLORE TIIE HEAD OF THE LAKE. 117 

ernmost station to which merchants have as yet been 
admitted. The people are generally on bad terms with 
the Wavira, and in these black regions a traveller coming 
direct from an enemy's territory is always suspected of 
hostile intentions, — no trifling bar to progress. Oppo- 
site us still rose, in a high broken line, the mountains of 
inhospitable Urundi, apparently prolonged beyond the 
northern extremity of the waters. The head, which 
was not visible from the plain, is said to turn N.N. 
westwards, and to terminate after a voyage of two days, 
which some informants, however, reduce to six hours. 
The breadth of the Tanganyika is here between seven 

and eight miles. On the 28th April, all my hopes 

which, however, I had hoped against hope — were rudely 
dashed to the ground. I received a visit from the three 
stalwart sons of the Sultan Maruta: they were the noblest 
type of Negroid seen near the Lake, with symmetrical 
heads, regular features and pleasing countenances ; their 
well-made limbs and athletic frames of a shiny jet black, 
were displayed to advantage by their loose aprons of 
red and dark-striped bark-cloth, slung, like game-bags, 
over their shoulders, and were set off by opal-coloured 
eyeballs, teeth like pearls, and a profusion of broad 
massive rings of snowy ivory round their arms, and coni- 
cal ornaments like dwarf marling-spikes of hippopotamus 
tooth suspended from their necks. The subject of the 
mysterious river issuing from the Lake, was at once 
brought forward. They all declared that they had 
visited it, they offered to forward me, but they unani- 
mously asserted, and every man in the host of bystanders 
confirmed their words, that the " Rusizi " enters into, 
and does not flow out of the Tanganyika. I felt sick at 
heart. I had not, it is true, undertaken to explore the 
Coy Fountains by this route ; but the combined asser- 

i 3 



Digitized by Google 



118 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

tions of the cogging Shaykh and the false Msawahili 
had startled me from the proprieties of reason, and — 
this was the result ! 

Bombay, when questioned, declared that my com- 
panion had misunderstood the words of Hamid bin 
Sulayyam, who spoke of a river falling into, not issuing 
from the lake ; and added his own conviction that the 
Arab had never sailed north of Ubwari Island. Sayfu, 
who at Ujiji had described, as an eye-witness, the 
mouth of the deversoir and its direction for two 
days, now owned that he had never been beyond Uvira, 
and that he never intended to do so. Briefly, I had been 
deceived by a strange coincidence of deceit. 

On the 28th April, we were driven from the strip of 
land which we originally occupied by a S. E. gale ; here 
a " blat," or small hurricane, which drives the foaming 
waters of the tideless sea up to the green margin of the 
land. Retiring higher up where the canoes were ca- 
reened, we spread our bedding on the little muddy 
mounds that rise a few inches above the surface of 
grass-closed gutter which drains off the showers daily 
falling amongst the hills. 1 was still obliged to content 
myself with the lug-sail, thrown over a ridge-pole sup- 
ported by two bamboo uprights, and pegged out like a 
tent below ; it was too short to fall over the ends and to 
reach the ground, it was therefore a place of passage 
for mizzle, splash, and draught of watery wind. My 
companion inhabited the tent bought from the Fundi, it 
was thoroughly rotted, during his first trip across the 
Lake — by leakage in the boat, and by being " bushed " 
with mud instead of pegs on shore. He informed me that 
there was " good grub " at Uvira, and that was nearly 
the full amount of what I heard from or of him. Our 
crews had hutted themselves in the dense mass of grass 



Digitized by 



A STOPPER TO PROGRESS. 



11!) 



near our tents ; they lived as it were under arms, and 
nothing would induce them to venture away from their 
only escape, the canoes, which stood ready for launch- 
ing whenever required. Sayfu swore that he would 
return to Ujiji rather than venture a few yards inland 
to buy milk, whilst Bombay and Mabruki, who ever 
laboured under the idea that every brother- African of 
the jungle thirsted for their blood, upon the principle 
that wild birds hate tame birds, became, when the task 
was proposed to them, almost mutinous. Our nine days, 
halt at Uvira had therefore unusual discomforts. The 
air, however, though damp and raw, with gust, storm, 
and rain, must have been pure in the extreme ; appetite 
and sleep — except when the bull-frogs were " making a 
night of it " — were rarely wanting, and provisions 
were good, cheap, and abundant. 

I still hoped, however, to lay down the extreme 
limits of the lake northwards. Majid and Bekkari the 
Arab agents of Said bin Majid, replied to the offer of 
an exorbitant sum, that they would not undertake the 
task for ten times that amount. The sons of Maruta 
had volunteered their escort ; when I wanted to close 
with them, they drew off. Kannena, when summoned 
to perform his promise and reminded of the hire that 
he had received, jumped up and ran out of the tent: 
afterwards at Ujiji he declared that he had been willing 
to go, but that his crews were unanimous in declining 
to risk their lives, — which was perhaps true. Towards 
the end of the halt I suffered so severely from ulceration 
of the tongue, that articulation was nearly impossible, 
and this was a complete stopper to progress. It is a 
characteristic of African travel that the explorer may be 
arrested at the very bourne of his journey, on the very 
threshold of success, by a single stage, as effectually 

I 4 



Digitized by Google 



120 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



as if all the waves of the Atlantic or the sands of Ara- 
bia lay between. 

Maruta and his family of young giants did not fail to 
claim their blackmail ; they received a total of twelve 
cloths, five kitindi, and thirty khete of coral beads. 
They returned two fine goats, here worth about one 
cloth each, and sundry large gourds of fresh milk — the 
only food I could then manage to swallow. Kannena, who 
had been living at Maruta's village, came down on the 5th 
May to demand 460 khete of blue porcelains, wherewith 
to buy rations for the return-voyage. Being heavily in 
debt, all his salt and coil-bracelets had barely sufficed for 
his liabilities: he had nothing to show for them but 
masses of Sambo — iron-wire rings — which made his 
ankles resemble those of a young hippopotamus. The 
slaves and all the fine tusks that came on board were 
the property of the crew. 

Our departure from Uvira was finally settled for the 
6th May : before taking leave of our " furthest point," 
I will offer a few details concerning the commerce of 
the place. 

Uvira is much frequented on account of its cheapness ; 
it is the great northern depot for slaves, ivory, grain, 
bark-cloth, and ironware, and, in the season, hardly a 
day elapses without canoes coming in for merchandise 
or provisions. The imports are the kitindi, salt, beads, 
tobacco, and cotton cloth. Rice does not grow there, 
holcus and maize are sold at one to two fundo of com- 
mon beads per masuta or small load, — perhaps sixteen 
pounds, — and one khete is sufficient during the months 
of plenty to purchase five pounds of manioc, or two 
and even three fowls. Plantains of the large and coarse 
variety are common and cheap, and one cloth is given 
for two goodly earthen pots full of palm-oil. Ivory 



Digitized by 



PRICES AT UVIRA. 



121 



fetches its weight in brass wire : here the merchant ex- 
pects for every 1000 dollars of outfit to receive 100 
farasilah (3500 lbs.) of large tusks, and his profit would 
be great were it not counterbalanced by the risk and by 
the expense of transport. The prices in the slave-mart 
greatly fluctuate. When business is dull, boys under ten 
years may be bought for four cloths and five fundo of 
white and blue porcelains, girls for six shukkah, and as 
a rule at these remote places, as Uvira, Ujipa, and Ma- 
rungu, slaves are cheaper than in the market of Ujiji. 
Adults fetch no price, they are notoriously intractable, 
and addicted to desertion. Bark-cloths, generally in the 
market, vary from one to three khete of coral beads. 
The principal industry of the Wavira is ironware, the 
material for which is dug in the lands lying at a little 
distance westward of the lake. The hoes, dudgeons, and 
small hatchets, here cos I; half their usual price at Ujiji. 
The people also make neat baskets and panniers, not 
unlike those of Normandy, and pretty bowls cut out 
of various soft woods, light and dark: the latter are 
also found, though rarely, at Ujiji and in the western 
islets. 

A gale appeared to be brewing in the north — here 
the place of storms — and the crews, fearing wind and 
water, in the afternoon insisted upon launching their 
canoes and putting out to sea at 10 a.m. on the 6th 
May. After touching at the stages before described, 
Muikamba, Ngovi and Murivumba of the anthropophagi, 
we crossed without other accidents but those of weather 
— the rainy monsoon was in its last convulsions — the 
western branch or supplementary channel separating the 
Lake from the island of Ubwari. Before anchoring at 
Mzimu, our former halting-place, we landed at a steep 
ghaut, where the crews swarmed up a ladder of rock, and 



Digitized by Google 



122 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

• presently returned back with pots of the palm-oil, for 
which this is the principal dep6t. 

On the I Oth May the sky was dull and gloomy, the 
wind was hushed, the " rain-sun " burnt with a sickly 
and painful heat ; the air was still and sultry, stifling 
and surcharged, while the glimmerings of lurid lightning 
and low mutterings from the sable cloud-banks lying 
upon the northern horizon, cut by light masses of mist 
in a long unbroken line, and from the black arch rising 
above the Acroceraurian hills to the west, disturbed at 
times the death-like silence. Even the gulls on the 
beach forefelt a storm. I suggested a halt, but the 
crews were now in a nervous hurry to reach their homes, 
— impatience mastered even their prudence. 

We left Mzimu at sunset, and for two hours coasted 
along the shore. It was one of those portentous 
evenings of the tropics — a calm before a tempest — 
unnaturally quiet ; we struck out, however, boldly to- 
wards the eastern shore of the Tanganyika, and the 
western mountains rapidly lessened on the view. Before, 
however, we reached the mid-channel, a cold gust — in 
these regions the invariable presage of a storm — swept 
through the deepening shades cast by the heavy rolling 
clouds, and the vivid nimble lightning flashed, at first 
by intervals, then incessantly, with a ghastly and blinding 
glow, illuminating the " vast of night," and followed by 
a palpable obscure, and a pitchy darkness, that weighed 
upon the sight. As terrible was its accompaniment of 
rushing, reverberating thunder, now a loud roar, peal 
upon peal, like the booming of heavy batteries, then 
breaking into a sudden crash, which was presently 
followed by a rattling discharge like the sharp pattering 
of musketry. The bundles of spears planted upright 
amidships, like paratonnerres, seemed to invite the electric 



Digitized by Google 



THE STORM. 123 

fluid into the canoes. The waves began to rise, the rain 
descended, at first in warning-drops, then in torrents, 
and had the wind steadily arisen, the cockle-shell craft 
never could have lived through the short, chopping sea 
which characterises the Tanganyika in heavy weather. 
The crew, though blinded by the showers, and frightened 
by the occasional gusts, held their own gallantly enough; 
at times, however, the moaning cry, " 0 my wife ! " 
showed what was going on within. Bombay, a noted 
Voltairian in fine weather, spent the length of that wild 
night in reminiscences of prayer. I sheltered myself 
from the storm under my best friend, the Mackintosh, 
and thought of the far-famed couplet of Hafiz, — with 
its mystic meaning I will not trouble the reader : — 

" This collied night, these horrid waves, these gusts that sweep the whirling 
deep! 

What reck they of our evil plight, who on the shore securely sleep ? " 

Fortunately the rain beat down wind and sea, otherwise 
nothing short of a miracle could have preserved us 
for a dry death. 

That night, however, was the last of our "sea- 
sorrows." After floating about during the latter hours 
of darkness, under the land, but uncertain where to 
disembark, we made at 7 a.m., on the 11th May, 
Wafanya, our former station in ill-famed Urundi. 
Tired and cramped by the night's work, we pitched tents, 
and escaping from the gaze of the insolent and intrusive 
crowd, we retired to spend a few hours in sleep. 

I was suddenly aroused by Mabruki, who, rushing 
into the tent, thrust my sword into my hands, and 
exclaimed that the crews were scrambling into their 
boats. I went out and found everything in dire con- 
fusion. The sailors hurrying here and there, were 
embarking their mats and cooking-pots, some were in 



Digitized by Google 



124 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

violent parley with Kanncna, whilst a little knot was 
carrying a man, mortally wounded, down to the waters 
of the Lake. I saw at once that the affair was dan- 
gerous. On these occasions the Wajiji, whose first 
impulse is ever flight, rush for safety to their boats and 
push off, little heeding whom or what they leave 
behind. We therefore hurried in without delay. 

When both crews had embarked, and no enemy 
appeared, Kannena persuaded them to reland, and 
proving to them their superior force, induced them to 
demand, at the arrow's point, satisfaction of Kanoni, 
the chief, for the outrage committed by his subjects. 
During our sleep a drunken man — almost all these 
disturbances arise from fellows who have the "vin 
michant" — had rushed from the crowd of Warundi, 
and, knobstick in hand, had commenced dealing blows 
in all directions. Ensued a general mel^e. Bombay, 
when struck, called to the crews to arm. The Goanese, 
Valentine, being fear-crazed, seized my large " Colt " 
and probably fired it into the crowd ; at all events, the 
cone struck one of our own men below the right pap, 
and came out two inches to the right of the backbone. 
Fortunately for us he was a slave, otherwise the situation 
would have been desperate. As it was, the crowd 
became violently excited, one man drew his dagger 
upon Valentine, and with difficulty I dissuaded Kannena 
from killing him. As the crew had ever an eye to the 
" main chance," food, they at once confiscated three 
goats, our store for the return voyage, cut their throats, 
and spitted the meat upon their spears : — thus the lamb 
died and the wolf dined, and the innocent suffered and 
the plunderer was joyed, the strong showed his strength 
and the weak his weakness, according to the usual for- 
mula of this sublunary world. 



THE WOUNDED MAff. 



125 



Whilst Kannena was absent, on martial purposes 
intent, I visited the sole sufferer in the fray, and after 
seeing his wound washed, I forbade his friends to knead 
the injured muscles, as they were doing, and to wrench 
his right arm from side to side. A cathartic seemed to 
have a beneficial effect. On the second day of his 
accident he was able to rise. But these occurrences in 
wild countries always cause long troubles. Kannena, 
who obtained from Sultan Kanoni, as blood-money, a 
small girl and a large sheep, declared that the man 
might die, and insisted upon my forthwith depositing, 
in case of such contingency, eight cloths, which, should 
the wound not prove fatal, would be returned. The latter 
clause might have been omitted ; in these lands, nescit 
cloth missa reverti. As we were about to leave Ujiji, 
Kannena claimed for the man's subsistence forty cloths, 
— or as equivalent, three slaves and six cloths — which 
also it was necessary to pay. A report was afterwards 
spread that the wretch had sunk under his wound. 
Valentine heard the intelligence with all that philosophy 
which distinguishes his race when mishaps occur to any 
but self. His prowess, however, cost me forty-eight 
dollars, here worth at least £100 in England. Still I 
had reason to congratulate myself tha t matters had not 
been worse. Had the victim been a Mjiji freeman, the 
trouble, annoyances, and expense would have been inter- 
minable. Had he been a Mrundi, we should have been 
compelled to fight our way, through a shower of arrows, 
to the boats ; war would have extended to Ujiji, and 
" England," as usual, would have had to pay the ex- 
penses. When Said bin Salim heard at Kazeh a dis- 
torted account of this mishap — of course it was re- 
ported that " Haji Abdullah " killed the man — he hit 
upon a notable device. Lurinda, the headman of Gungu, 



Digitized by Google 



126 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

had often begged the Arab to enter into " blood-bro- 
therhood " with him, and this had Said bin Salim perti- 
naciously refused, on religious grounds, to do. When 
informed that battle and murder were in the wind, he at 
once made fraternity with Lurinda, hoping to derive 
protection from his spear. His terrors afterwards per- 
suaded him to do the same with Kannena : indeed at 
that time he would have hailed a slave as "Ndugu 
yango !" (my brother !) 

When Kannena returned successful from his visit to 
Kanoni, we prepared to leave Wafanya. The fierce 
rain and the nightly drizzle detained us, however, till 
the next morning. On the 11th May we paddled round 
the southern point of Wafanya Bay to Makimoni, 
a little grassy inlet, where the canoes were defended 
from the heavy surf. 

After this all was easy. We rattled paddles on the 
12th May, as we entered our " patrie," Nyasanga. The 
next night was spent in Bangwe Bay. We were too 
proud to sneak home in the dark ; we had done some- 
thing deserving a Certain Cross, we were heroes, braves 
of braves ; we wanted to be looked at by the fair, to be 
howled at by the valiant. Early on the morning of the 
13th May we appeared with shots, shouts, and a shock- 
ing noise, at the reed-lined gap of sand that forms the 
ghaut of Kawele. It was truly a triumphal entrance. 
All the people of that country-side had collected to 
welcome the crew, women and children, as well as men, 
pressed waist-deep into the water to receive friend and 
relative with becoming affection : — the gestures, the 
clamour, and the other peculiarities of the excited mob 
I must really leave to the reader's imagination; the 
memory is too much for me. 

But true merit is always modest ; it aspires to Honor, 
not honours. The Wagungu, or whites, were repeatedly 



Digitized 



DAMPER TO A RETURN HOME. 



127 



" called for." I broke, however, through the sudant, stri- 
dent, hircine throng, and regaining, with the aid of 
Riza's strong arm, the old Tembe, was salaamed to by the 
expectant Said bid Salim and the Jemadar. It felt like a 
return home. But I had left, before my departure, with 
my Arab charg^-d'affaires, four small loads of cloth, and 
on inspecting the supplies there remained only ten 
shukkah. I naturally inquired what had become of the 
110 others, which had thus prematurely disappeared. 
Said bin Salim replied by showing a small pile of 
grain-bags, and by informing me that he had hired 
twenty porters for the down-march. He volunteered, 
it is true, in case I felt disposed to finish the Periplus of 
the Lake, to return to Kazeh and to superintend the 
transmission of our reserve supplies ; as, however, he at 
the same time gave me to understand that he could not 
escort them back to Ujiji, I thanked him for his offer, 
and declined it. 

We had expended upwards of a month — from the 
10th April to the 13th May, 1858 — in this voyage 
fifteen days outward bound, nine at Uvira, and nine in 
returning. The boating was rather a severe trial. 
We had no means of resting the back ; the holds of 
the canoes, besides being knee-deep in water, were 
disgracefully crowded; — they had been appropriated 
to us and our four servants by Kannena, but by de- 
grees, he introduced in addition to the sticks, spears, 
broken vases, pots, and gourds, a goat, two or three 
small boys, one or two sick sailors, the little slave- 
girl and the large sheep. The canoes were top- 
heavy with the number of their crew, and the 
shipping of many seas spoilt our tents, and besides, 
wetted our salt, and soddened our grain and flour ; the 
gunpowder was damaged, and the guns were honey- 
combed with rust. Besides the splashing of the paddles 



Digitized 



128 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA 



and the dashing of waves, heavy showers fell almost every 
day and night, and the intervals were bursts of burning 
sunshine. 

The discomfort of the halt was not less than that of 
the boat. At first we pitched tents near the villages, 
in tall, fetid grass, upon ground never level, where stones 
were the succedanea for tent-pegs stolen for fuel, and 
where we slept literally upon mire. The temperature 
inside was ever in extremes, now a raw rainy cold, 
then a steam-bath that damped us like an April shower. 
The villagers, especially in the remoter districts, were 
even more troublesome, noisy, and inquisitive, than the 
Wagogo. A " notable passion of wonder " appeared in 
them. We felt like baited bears : we were mobbed in 
a moment, and scrutinised from every point of view 
by them ; the inquisitive wretches stood on tiptoe, they 
squatted on their hams, they bent, sideways, they thrust 
forth their necks like hissing geese to vary the prospect. 
Their eyes, " glaring lightning-like out of their heads," 
as old Homer hath it, seemed to devour us; in the 
ecstasy of curiosity they shifted from one Muzungu 
to his " brother," till, like the well-known ass between 
the two bundles of hay, they could not enjoy either. 
They were pertinacious as flies, to drive them away was 
only to invite a return; whilst, worst grief of all, 
the women were plain, and their grotesque salu- 
tations resembled the M encounter of two dog-apes." 
The Goanese were almost equally honoured, and 
the operation of cooking was looked upon as a 
miracle. At last my experience in staring enabled 
me to categorise the infliction as follows. Firstly, is the 
stare furtive, when the starer would peep and peer 
under the tent, and its reverse, the stare open. Thirdly, 
is the stare curious or intelligent, which, generally 
accompanied with irreverent laughter regarding our 



Digitized by Go 



CATEGORY OP STARES. 129 

appearance. Fourthly, is the stare stupid, which 
denoted the hebete incurious savage. The stare 
discreet is that of sultans and great men ; the stare 
indiscreet at unusual seasons is affected by women and 
children. Sixthly, is the stare flattering — it was 
exceedingly rare, and equally so was the stare con- 
temptuous. Eighthly, is the stare greedy; it was 
denoted by the eyes restlessly bounding from one object 
to another, never tired, never satisfied. Ninthly, is 
the stare peremptory and pertinacious, peculiar to 
crabbed age. The dozen concludes with the stare 
drunken, the stare fierce or pugnacious, and finally the 
stare cannibal, which apparently considered us as 
articles of diet. At last, weary of the stare by day, and 
the tent by night, I preferred inhabiting a bundle of 
clothes in the wet hold of the canoe; this, at least, 
saved the trouble of wading through the water, of 
scrambling over the stern, and of making a way between 
the two close lines of grumbling and surly blacks that 
manned the paddle-benches ; whenever, after a mean- 
ingless halt, some individual thought proper to scream 
out u Safari ! " ( journey !) 

Curious to say, despite all these discomforts our 
health palpably improved. My companion, though 
still uncomfortably deaf, was almost cured of his blind- 
ness. When that ulcerated mouth, which rendered it 
necessary for me to live by suction — generally milk and 
water — for seventeen days, had returned to its usual 
state, my strength gradually increased. Although my feet 
were still swollen by the perpetual wet and by the pain- 
ful funza or entozoon, my hands partially lost their 
numbness, and the fingers which before could hold the 
pen only for a few minutes were once more able freely to 
write and sketch. In fact, I date a slow but sensible 

VOL. 1!. K 



Digitized by Google 



130 TTIE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

progress towards a complete recovery of health from 
the days and nights spent in the canoe and upon 
the mud of the Tanganyika Lake. Perhaps mind 
had also acted upon matter; the object of my 
mission was now effected, and this thought enabled 
me to cast off the burden of grinding care with which 
the imminent prospect of a failure had before sorely 
laden me. 

The rainy monsoon broke up on the 14th May, the 
day after my return to Kawele, and once more, after 
six months of incessant storm-wind and rain, clouds 
and mists, we had fine, cool mornings, clear warm sun, 
and deliciously cold nights. The climate became truly 
enjoyable, but the scenery somewhat lost its earlier 
attractions. The faultless, regular, and uniform beauty, 
and the deep stillness of this evergreen land did not 
fail to produce that strange, inexplicable melancholy of 
which most travellers in tropical countries complain. 
In this Nature all is beautiful that meets the eye, all is 
soft that affects the senses ; but she is a Siren whose 
pleasures soon pall upon the enjoyer. The mind, en- 
feebled perhaps by an enervating climate, is fatigued 
and wearied by the monotony of the charms which 
haunt it ; cloyed with costly fare, it sighs for the rare 
simplicity of the desert. I have never felt this sadness 
in Egypt and Arabia, and was never without it in 
India and Zanzibar. 

Our outfit, as I have observed, had been reduced to a 
minimum. Not a word from Snay bin Amir, my agent 
at Kazeh, had arrived in reply to my many missives, 
and old Want began to stare at us with the stare 
peremptory. " Wealth," say the Arabs, " hath one 
devil, poverty a dozen," and nowhere might a caravan 
more easily starve than in rich and fertile Central 



Digitized by Google 



AFRICAN* IXIIOSriTALITV. 



131 



Africa. Travellers are agreed that in these countries 
M Da gg a S e * s : " tne heartless and inhospitable race 
will not give a handful of grain without return, and to 
use the Moslem phrase, " Allah pity him who must beg 
of a beggar ! " As usual on such occasions, the Baloch 
began to clamour for more rations — they received two 
cloths per diem — and to demand a bullock wherewith 
to celebrate their Eed or greater Festival. There were 
several Arab merchants at Kawele, but they had ex- 
hausted their stock in purchasing slaves and ivory. 
None in fact were so rich as ourselves, and we were 
reduced to ten shukkah, ten fundo of coral beads, and 
one load of black porcelains, which were perfectly use- 
less. With this pittance we had to engage hammals 
for the hammock, to feed seventy-five mouths, and to 
fee several Sultans ; in fact, to incur the heavy expenses 
of marching back 260 miles to Unyanyembe. 

Still, with an enviable development of Hope, Said bin 
Salim determined that we should reach Kazeh un- 
famished. We made the necessary preparations for the 
journey, patched tents and umbrella, had a grand 
washing and scouring day, mended the portmanteaus, 
and ground the grain required for a month's march, 
hired four porters for the manchil, distributed ammu- 
nition to Said bin Salim and the Baloch, who at once 
invested it in slaves, and exchanged with Said bin Majid 
several pounds of lead for palm-oil, which would be an 
economy at the Malagarazi Ferry. For some days past 
rumours had reached here that a large caravan of 
Wanyamwazi porters, commanded by an Arab merchant, 
was approaching Kawele. I was not sanguine enough to 
expose myself to another disappointment. Suddenly on 
the 22d May, frequent musket shots announced the 
arrival of strangers, and at noon the Tembe was sur- 

K 2 



Digitized by Google 



132 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



rounded with boxes and bales, porters, slaves, and four 
"sons of Ramji," Mbaruko, Sangora, Khamisi, and Shehe. 
Shahdad the Baloch, who had been left behind at Kazeh 
in love, and in attendance upon his " brother," Ismail, 
who presently died, had charge of a parcel of papers and 
letters from Europe, India, and Zanzibar. They were the 
first received after nearly eleven months, and of course 
they brought with them evil tidings, — the Indian muti- 
nies. En revanche, I had a kindly letter from M. Cochet, 
Consul of France, and from Mr. Mansfield, of the U.S., 
who supplied me with the local news, and added for my 
edification a very "low-church" Tract, the first of the 
family, I opine, that has yet presented itself in Central 
Africa. Mr. Frost reported that he had sent at once a 
letter apprising me of Lieut. -Colonel Hamaton's death, 
and had forwarded the medical supplies for which I 
indented from K'hutu : these, as has been explained, had 
not reached me. Snay bin Amir also informed me that 
he had retained all the packages for which he could find 
no porters ; that three boxes had been stolen from his 
" godown ; " and finally, that the second supply, 400 
dollars-worth of cloth and beads, for which I had written 
at Incnge and had re-written at Ugogo and other 
places, was hourly expected to arrive. 

This was an unexpected good fortune, happening at a 
crisis when it was really wanted. My joy was some- 
what damped by inspecting the packs of the fifteen 
porters. Twelve were laden with ammunition which 
was not wanted, and with munitions de bouche, which 
were : nearly half the bottles of curry-powder, spices, 
and cognac were broken, tea, coffee, and sugar, had 
been squeezed out of their tin canisters, and much of 
the rice and coffee had disappeared. The three re- 
maining loads were one of American domestics, — sixty 



INADEQUATE SUPPLIES 



bhukkahs — and the rest contained fifteen coral -bracelets 
and white beads. All were the refuse of their kind: 
the good Hindoos at Zanzibar had seized this oppor- 
tunity to dispose of their flimsy, damaged, and unsale- 
able articles. This outfit was sufficient to carry us 
comfortably to Unyanyembe. I saw, however, with 
regret that it was wholly inadequate for the purpose of 
exploring the two southern thirds of the Tanganyika 
Lake, much less for returning to Zanzibar, vid the 
Nyassa or Maravi Lake, and Kilwa, as I had once 
dreamed. 

I received several visits from our old companion, 
Muhinna bin Sulayman of Kazeh, and three men of his 
party. He did not fail to improve the fact of his having 
brought up my supplies in the nick of time. He re- 
quired five coil-bracelets and sixteen pounds of beads 
as my share of the toll taken from him by the Lord of 
the Malagarazi Ferry. For the remaining fifteen coil- 
bracelets he gave me forty cloths, and for the load and 
a half of white beads he exchanged 880 strings of 
blue porcelains — a commercial operation by which he 
cleared without trouble 35 per cent. Encouraged by 
my facility, he proposed to me the propriety of paying 
part of the kuhonga or blackmail claimed from new 
comers by Rusimba and Kannena. But facility has its 
limits : I quietly objected, and we parted on the best of 
terms. 



K 3 



Digitized by Google 



134 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 




A Mgotfo. Ferry Boat 

on the Mu.agarazi River. A Mzaramo. 



CHAP. XV. 

THE TANGANYIKA LAKE AND ITS PERIPLUS. 

The Tanganyika Lake, though situated in the unex- 
plored centre of Intertropical Africa, and until 1858 
unvisited by Europeans, has a traditionary history of 
its own, extending through more than three centuries. 

" Accounts of a great sea in the interior of Africa ob- 
tained (partially from native travellers) at Congo and 
Sofala," reached the Portuguese settlements on both 
shores of the continent.* The details of de Barros 

* Mr.Cooley's 'Memoir on the Geography of N'yassi,' p. 1. (Vol. XV. of 
1845, Journal of the Royal Geographical Society.) The extracts from 
Portuguese history in the text are entirely taken from that learned paper, 



HISTORY OP TANGANYIKA. 



(first printed in 1852), whilst affording substantially 
correct details, such as the length of the Lake — 100 
leagues — the capability of navigation, and the one large 
island — Ubwari — are curiously intermingled with the 
errors of theoretical conclusion. Subsequently Pigafetta 
(1591) writing upon the authority of Portuguese in- 
quirers, affirms that there is but one lake (the N'yassa) 
on the confines of Angola and Monoraotapa, but that 
there are two lakes (the Nyassa and the Tanganyika), 
not lying east and west, as was supposed by Ptolemy of 
Alexandria, but north and south of each other, and 
about 400 miles asunder, which give birth to the Nile. 
From that epoch dates the origin of our modern mis- 
conceptions concerning the Lake Region of Central 
Intertropical Africa. The Nyassa and the Tanganyika 
were now blended, then separated, according to the 
theories or the information of the geographer ; no ex- 
plorer ventured to raise from the land of mystery the 
veil that invested it; and the 44 Mombas Mission" added 
the colophon by confounding, with the old confusion, 
the Nyanza or Ukerewe, a third, lake, of which they 
had heard at Motnbasah and elsewhere. It is not 
wonderful then that Dr. Vincent suspected the existence 
or the place of the Central Lake, or that the more ig- 
norant popularizers of knowledge confounded the waters 
of the Nyassa and the Ngamfc* 

which in describing actualities wanted nothing but a solid foundation of 
data. The geographer's principal informant in 1834 was one " Khambi bin 
Tani," civilised into " Khamis bin Osman," a Msawahili of Lamu who 
having visited the Nyassa, Maravi or Kilwa Lake, pretended that be had 
travelled to the Tanganyika Lake. I cannot allow this opportunity to pass 
without expressing my gratitude to Mr. Cooley for his courtesy in supplying 
me with references and other information. 

? In the 'Westminster Review' (New Series, No. XX.) occurs the 
following passage, which sufficiently illustrates the assertion in the text ; the 
critic is discussing Mr.C. Andersson's 4 Lake Ngarai,' &c. &c. (London, 135C) ; 

k 4 



Digitized by Google 



l;JG 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The earliest name given by theoretical writers to the 
hypothetical single lake appears to have been Zenibere, 
Z^mbere, Zambre, Zarabri, or Zerabre, probably a cor- 
ruption or dialectic variety of Zambesi, that river being 
supposed, like the Nile, the Zaire, the Manisa, and others, 
to be derived from it. The word Moravi or Maravi, which 
still deforms our maps, is the name of a large tribe or a 
lordly race like the Wahinda, dwelling to the south-east 
and south-west of the Nyassa. In the seventeenth century 
Luigi Mariano, a missioner residing at the Rios de Sena, 
calls the Central Sea the Lake of Hemosura ; his descrip- 
tion however applies to the Nyassa, Maravi or Kiiwa 
Lake, and the word is probably a corruption of Rusuro or 
Lusuro, which in the language of Uhiao signifies a river 
or flowing water. In the 'Mombas Mission Map* the 
lake is called " See von Uniamesi," a mere misn omer, 
as it is separated by hundreds of miles from the Land 

— " African missionaries, penetrating some little distance inland from the 
S.E., recently brought information, which they received second-hand from 
Arab travellers, of a vast fresh-water lake far in the interior, described as 
being of enormous dimensions — as nothing less than a great inland sea. 
Frequenters of the Geographical Society's meetings in Whitehall-place have 
observed in consequence, on the site which used to be marked in the maps 
as a sandy desert, a blue spot, about the size of the Caspian, and the shape 
of a hideous inflated leech. We trusted that a more accurate survey would 
correct the extreme frightfulness of the supposed form. Mr. Andersson has 
spared us further excitement. The lake turns out to be a mirage — a 
mythus with the smallest conceivable nucleus of fact. On the very spot 
occupied by this great blue leech — long. E. from Greenwich 23° and lat. 
S. 20° 21' — he found a small speck of bitter water, something more than 
twenty miles across, or the size of Lake Corrib in Galway. So perishes 
a phantom which has excited London geographers for a whole season." 

Had the learned reviewer used his eyes or his judgment in Whitehall- 
place, he would not thus have confounded the hypothetic sea of the * Mombas 
Mission Map' — a reservoir made to include the three several waters of 
Nyanza, Tanganyika, and Nyassa — in E. long. 24° — 29°, and S. lat 0° 13' 
— with the little N garni explored by Dr. Livingstone and a party of friends 
in August, 1849, and placed by him in E. long. 23°, and in S. lat 20° 20' 
21'. The nearest points of the two waters are separated by an interval, in 
round numbers, of 700 miles. 



Digitized by Google 



MEANING OF TANGANYIKA. 



137 



of the Moon : the northern part is termed Ukerewe, by 
a confusion with the Nyanza Lake and the southern 
N'hanja, for Nyassa, the old Maravi water near Kilwa. 
It is not a little curious, however, that Messrs. Cooley 
and Macqueen should both have recorded the vernacular 
name of the northern Lake Tangenyika, so unaccount- 
ably omitted from the * Mombas Mission Map.' The 
words Tanganyenka and Tanganyenko used by Dr. 
Livingstone, who in places appears to confound the 
Lake with the Nyanza and the Nyassa, are palpable mis- 
pronunciations. 

The African name for the central lake is Tanganyika, 
signifying an anastomosis, or a meeting place (sc. of 
waters,) from ku tanganyika, the popular word, to join, 
or meet together : the initial t being changed to ch — 
ku changanyika for ku tanganyika — in the lingua Franca 
of Zanzibar doubtless gave rise to Mr. Cooley's " Zan- 
ganyika." The word Tanganyika is universally used 
by the Wajiji and other tribes near and upon the Lake. 
The Arabs and African strangers, when speaking loosely 
of it, call it indifferently the Bahari or Sea, the Ziwa or 
Pond, and even the Mtoni or River. The " Sea of 
Ujiji" would, after the fashion of Easterns, be limited 
to. the waters in the neighbourhood of that principal 
depot. 

The Tanganyika occupies the centre of the length of 
the African continent, which extends from 32° N. to 
33° S. latitude, and it lies on the western extremity of 
the eastern third of the breadth. Its general direction 
is parallel to the inner African line of volcanic action 
drawn from Gondar southwards through the regions 
about Kilima-ngao (Kilimanjaro) to Mount Njesa, the 
eastern wall of the Nyassa Lake. The general forma- 
tion suggests, as in the case of the Dead Sea, the idea 
of a volcano of depression — not, like the Nyanza or 



138 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Ukerewe, a vast reservoir formed by the drainage of 
mountains. Judging from the eye, the walls of this 
basin rise in an almost continuous curtain, rarely 
waving and infracted to 2,000 or 3,000 feet above the 
water-level. The lower slopes are well wooded : upon 
the higher summits large trees are said not to grow ; 
the deficiency of soil, and the prevalence of high fierce 
winds would account for the phenomena. The lay is 
almost due north and south, and the form a long oval, 
widening in the central portions and contracting sys- 
tematically at both extremities. The length of the bed 
was thus calculated : From Ujiji (in S. lat. 4° 55') to 
Uvira (in S. lat. 3° 25'), where the narrowing of the 
breadth evidences approach to the northern head, was 
found by exploration a direct distance of i° 30' = 90 
miles, which, allowing for the interval between Uvira 
and the river Rusizi, that forms the northernmost limit, 
may be increased to 100 rectilinear geographical miles. 
According to the Arab voyagers, who have frequently 
rounded the lake Ujiji in eight stages from the northern, 
and twelve from the southern, end of the lake, the ex- 
tent from Ujiji to the Marungu River, therefore, is 
roughly computed at 150 miles. The total of length, 
from Uvira, in S. lat. 30° 25', to Marungu, inS. lat. 7° 20', 
would then be somewhat less than 250 rectilinear 
geographical miles. About Ujiji the water appears to 
vary in breadth from 30 to 35 miles, but the serpentine 
form of the banks, with a succession of serrations and 
indentations of salient and re-entering angles — some 
jutting far and irregularly into the bed — render the 
estimate of average difficult. The Arabs agree in cor- 
rectly stating, that opposite Ujiji the shortest breadth 
of the lake is about equal to the channel which divides 
Zanzibar from the mainland, or between 23 and 2£ 



Digitized 



AREA OP TANGANYIKA. 



139 



miles. At Uvira the breadth narrows to eight miles. 
Assuming, therefore, the total length at 250, and the 
main breadth at 20, geographical miles, the circumfer- 
ence of the Tanganyika would represent, in round 
numbers, a total of 550 miles; the superficial area, 
which seems to vary little, covers about 5,000 square 
miles ; and the drainage from the beginning of the great 
Central African depression in Unyarawezi, in E. long. 
33° 58', numbers from the eastward about 240 miles. 

By B. P. thermometer the altitude of the Tanganyika 
is 1850 feet above the sea-level, and about 2000 feet below 
the adjacent plateau of Unyamwezi and the Nyanza, or 
northern lake. This difference of level, even did not 
high-hill ranges intervene, would preclude the possibility 
of that connection between the waters which the Arabs, 
by a conjecture natural to inexpert geographers, have 
maintained to the confusion of the learned. The topo- 
graphical situation of the Tanganyika is thus the centre 
of a deep synclical depression in the continent, a long 
narrow trough in the southern spurs of Urundi, which, 
with its mountain-neighbour Karagwah, situated upon 
the equator, represents the Inner African portion of 
the Lunar Mountains. It may be observed that the 
parallel of the northern extremity of the Tanganyika 
nearly corresponds with the southern creek of the Ny- 
anza, and that they are separated by an arc of the 
meridian of about 343 miles. 

The water of the Tanganyika appears deliciously 
sweet and pure after the salt and bitter, the putrid and 
slimy produce of the wells, pits, and pools on the line 
of march. The people, however, who drink it willingly 
when afloat, prefer, when on shore, the little springs 
which bubble from its banks. They complain that it 
does not satisfy thirst, and contrast it unfavourably 



Digitized by Google 



140 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

with the waters of its rival the Nyanza : it appears 
moreover, to corrode metal and leather with exceptional 
power. The colour of the pure and transparent mass 
has apparently two normal varieties : a dull sea-green — 
never, however, verdigris-coloured, as in the shoals of 
the Zanzibar seas, where the reflected blue of the atmo- 
sphere blends with the yellow of the sandy bottom ; the 
other, a clear, soft blue — by day rarely deep and dark, 
like the ultramarine of the Mediterranean, but resembling 
the light and milky tints of tropical seas. Under a strong 
wind the waves soon rise in yeasty lines, foaming up 
from a turbid greenish surface, and the aspect becomes 
menacing in the extreme. 

It was found impracticable to take soundings of the 
Tanganyika: the Arabs, however, agreed in asserting 
that with lines of several fathoms they found bottom 
only near the shores. The shingly sole shelves rapidly, 
without steps or overfalls, into blue water. Judging 
from the eye, the bottom is sandy and profusely strewn 
with worn pebbles. Reefs and washes were observed 
near the shores; it is impossible to form an idea of their 
position or extent, as the crews confine themselves to a 
few well-known lines, from which they cannot be per- 
suaded to diverge. No shoals or shallows were seen 
at a distance from the coasts, and though islets are not 
unfrequent upon the margin, only one was observed or 
heard of near the centre. 

The affluents of this lake are neither sufficiently 
numerous nor considerable to alter by sedimentary de- 
posit the depth or the shape of the bed. The borders 
are generally low : a thick fringe of rush and reed, ob- 
viating erosion by the element, conceals the watery 
margin. Where the currents beat, they cut out a short 
and narrow strip of quartzose sand, profusely strewn 



Digitize 



THE TANGANYIKA HAS NO EFFLUENTS. 141 



with large shingle, gravel, comminuted shells, and ma- 
rine exuviaj, with a fringe of drift formed by the joint 
action of wind and wave. Beyond this is a shelving 
plain — the principal locality for cultivation and settle* 
ments. In some parts it is a hard clay conglomerate ; 
in others, a rich red loam, apparently stained with oxide 
of iron ; and in others sandy, but everywhere coated 
with the thickest vegetation extending up to the back- 
ground of mountains. The coast is here and there 
bluff, with miniature cliffs and headlands, whose for- 
mation is of sandstone strata tilted, broken, and distorted, 
or small blocks imbedded in indurated reddish earth. 
From the water appeared piles of a dark stone re- 
sembling angular basalt, and amongst the rock-crevices 
the people find the float-clay, or mountain meal, with 
which they decorate their persons and the sterns of 
their canoes. The uncultivated hill summits produce 
various cactaceaj; the sides are clothed with giant trees, 
the mvule, the tamarind, and the bauhinia. On the 
declines, more precipitous than the Swiss terraces, 
manioc and cereals grow luxuriantly, whilst the lowest 
levels are dark with groves of plantains and Guinea- 
palms. 

A careful investigation and comparison of statements 
leads to the belief that the Tanganyika receives and 
absorbs the whole river-system — the net- work of streams, 
nullahs, and torrents — of that portion of the Central 
African depression whose water-shed converges towards 
the great reservoir. Geographers will doubt that such 
a mass, situated at so considerable an altitude, can 
maintain its level without an effluent. Moreover, the 
freshness of the water would, under normal circum- 
stances, argue the escape of saline matter washed down 
by the influents from the area of drainage. But may 



Digitized by Google 



142 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



not the Tanganyika, situated, like the Dead Sea, as a 
reservoir for supplying with humidity the winds which 
have parted with their moisture in the barren and arid 
regions of the south, maintain its general level by the 
exact balance of supply and evaporation ? And may 
not the saline particles deposited in its waters be wanting 
in some constituent which renders them evident to the 
taste ? One point concerning the versant has been 
proved by these pages, namely, that the Tanganyika 
cannot be drained eastward by rents in a subtending 
mountain ridge, as was supposed by Dr. Livingstone 
from an indiscriminately applied analogy with the 
ancient head-basin of the Zambezi. Dr. Livingstone 
(chap. xxiv. xxvi. et passim) informs his readers, from 
report of the Arabs, that the Tanganyika is a large 
shallow body of water ; in fact, the residuum of a mass 
anciently much more extensive. This, however, is not 
and cannot be the case. In theorising upon the eastern 
versant and drainage of the Tanganyika, Dr. Livingstone 
seems to have been misled by having observed that the 
vast inland sea of geological ages, of which Lake Ngami 
and its neighbour Kumadau are now the principal 
remains, had been desiccated by cracks and fissures, 
caused in the subtending soils by earthquakes and 
sudden upheavals, which thus opened for the waters an 
exit into the Indian Ocean. This may have happened 
to the Nyassa, or Southern Lake; it must not, however, 
be generalized and extended to the Nyanza and the 
Tanganyika. 

As in Zanzibar, there is little variety of temperature 
upon the Tanganyika. The violent easterly gales, 
which, pouring down from the cold heights of Usagara, 
acquire impetus sufficient to carry the current over 
Ugogo, Unyamwezi, and Uvinza, are here less distinctly 



EBB AND FLOW IN THE LAKE. 143 

defined. The periodical winds over the Lake — regular, 
but not permanent — are the south-east and the south- 
west, which also bring up the foulest weather. The 
land and sea breezes are felt almost as distinctly as upon 
the shores of the Indian Ocean. The breath of the 
morning, called by the Arabs El Barad, or the zephyr, 
sets in from the north. During the day are light va- 
riable breezes, which often subside, when the weather is 
not stormy, into calms. In the evenings a gentle afflatus 
comes up from the waters. Throughout the dry season 
the Lake becomes a wind-trap, and a heavy ground sea 
rolls towards the shore. In the rains there is less sea, 
but accidents occur from sudden and violent storms. 
The mountainous breakers of Arab and African in- 
formants were not seen ; in fact, with a depth of three 
feet from ridge to dell, a wave would swamp the largest 
laden canoe. Wind-currents are common. Within a 
few hours a stream will be traversed, setting strongly 
to the east, and crossed by a southerly or south-westerly 
current. High gales, in certain localities where the 
waves set upon a flush, flat shore, drive the waters 
fifteen to twenty feet beyond the usual mark. This 
circumstance may partly explain the Arab's belief in a 
regular Madd wa Jarr — ebb and flow — which Eastern 
travellers always declare to have observed upon the 
Tanganyika and Nyassa Lakes, and which Mr. Ander- 
son believes to exist in the little Ngami. A mass of 
water so large must be, to a certain extent, subject to 
tidal influences ; but the narrowness of the bed from 
east to west would render their effect almost unob- 
servable. Mr. Francis Galton referred me for the ex- 
planation of this phenomenon to a paper ' On the 
Seiches of Lakes,' by Colonel J. R. Jackson, F.R.G.S., 
published in the * Journal of the R. G. S./ vol. iii. of 



Digitized by Google 



144 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



1833, in which the learned author refers the ebb and 
flow of the waters of Lake Leman, or of Geneva (and 
of the lakes of Zurich, Annecy, and Constance), to "an 
unequal pressure of the atmosphere on different parts 
of the lake at the same time; that is, to the simul- 
taneous effect of columns of air of different weight or 
different elasticity, arising from temporary variations of 
temperature, or from mechanical causes." 

The scenery and the navigation of the Tanganyika 
have been illustrated in the last chapter. Remains 
only a succinct account of the physical and ethnological 
features of its Periplus, carefully collected from autho- 
rities on the spot. 

According to the Wajiji, from their country to the 
Runangwa or Marungu River, which enters the Lake at 
the southern point, there are twelve stages ; this Peri- 
plus numbers 120 khambi or stations, at most of which, 
however, provisions are not procurable. An extended 
list of fifty-three principal points was given by the 
guides ; it is omitted, as it contains nothing beyond 
mere names. There are, however, sixteen tribes and 
districts which claim attention : of these, Ukaranga and 
Ujiji have already been described. 

The kingdom of Urundi, which lies north of Ujiji, 
has a sea-face of about fifty miles ; a low strip of ex- 
ceeding fertility, backed at short distances by a band of 
high green hill. This region, rising from the Lake in a 
north-easterly direction, culminates into the equatorial 
mass of highlands which, under the name of Karagwah, 
forms the western spinal prolongation of the Lunar 
Mountains. The residence of the Mwami, or chief 
sultan Mwezi, is near the headstream of the Kitan^ure 
(Kitangule), or River of Karagwah, which rises at a 
place distant six days' march (sixty miles), and bearing 



Digitized by 



I'KUNDI. 



north-east from, the Tanganyika. His settlement, ac- 
cording to the Arabs, is of considerable extent; the 
huts are built of rattan, and lions abound in the 
vicinity. 

Urundi differs from the lake regions generally in 
being a strictly monarchical country, locally governed 
by Watware or headmen, who transmit the customs 
and collections at stated periods to their suzerain. The 
Mwame, it is said, can gather in a short time a large 
host of warriors who are the terror of the neighbouring 
tribes. The Warundi are evidently natives of a high 
cold country ; they are probably the " white people 
resembling Abyssinians," and dwelling near the Lake, 
of whom European geographers have beard from Zan- 
zibar. The complexion varies from a tawny yellow, 
the colour of the women, to a clear dark brown, which 
is so brightened by the daily use of ochre mixed with 
palm-oil, that in few cases the real tint is discernible. 
The men tattoo with circles and lines like cupping-cuts; 
some burn up alti rilievi of large shining lumps an inch 
in diameter, a decoration not a little resembling large 
boils ; others chip the fore teeth like the Wanyamwezi. 
Their limbs are stout and well proportioned, many 
stand upwards of six feet high, and they bear the ap- 
pearance of a manly and martial race. Their dress is 
the mbugu, worn in the loosest way ; their arms are 
heavy spears, sime, and unusually strong arrows ; their 
ornaments are beads, brass wire, and streaks of a 
carmine-coloured substance, like the red farinaceous 
powder called in India gulal, drawn across the head 
and forehead. The Waganga, or priests of Urundi, 
wear a curious hood, a thatch of long white grass or 
fibre, cut away at the face and allowed to depend behind 
over the shoulders ; their half-naked figures, occasion- 

VOL. II. L 



Digitized by Google 



146 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

ally rattling wooden clappers, and capering cause- 
lessly like madmen, present a savage and horrid ap- 
pearance. Honourable women wear long tobes of 
American domestics from below the arms to the ankles ; 
they are followed by hosts of female slaves, and pre- 
serve an exceptionally modest and decorous demeanour. 
Their features are of the rounded African type of 
beauty. Their necks and bosoms support a profusion 
of sofi and other various-coloured beads ; their fore- 
heads are bound with frontlets, fillet-like bands of 
white and coral porcelain, about three fingers deep, a 
highly becoming ornament probably derived from Ka- 
ragwah ; and those who were seen by the Expedition 
invariably walked about with thin staves five or six 
feet long, pointed and knobbed as the walking-sticks of 
ancient Egypt. 

At the northern extremity of the Urundi sea-face, 
and at the head of the Tanganyika, lies the land of 
Uzige ; it is rarely visited except by the Lakist traders. 
This people, who, like their neighbours, cannot exist 
without some form of traffic, have, it is said, pursued 
the dows of the earlier Arab explorers with a flotilla of 
small canoes ; it is probable that negro traders would 
be better received. In their country, according to the 
guides, six rivers fall into the Tanganyika in due order 
from the east : the Kuryamavenge, the Molongwe, the 
Karindira, the Kariba, the Kibaiba, and westernmost 
the Rusizi or Lusizi. The latter is the main drain of 
the northern countries, and the best authorities, that is 
to say those nearest the spot, unanimously assert that 
it is an influent. 

The races adjoining Uzige, namely, the Wavira on 
the north-western head of the Tanganyika, and their 
southern neighbours, the Wabembe cannibals, have 



Digitized by 



THE PRESENT TERMINUS OF TRADE. 1-47 

already been mentioned. The Wasenze inhabit the 
hills within or westwards of the Waberabe. Further 
southwards and opposite Kawele in Ujiji are the Wa- 
goma highlanders. The lower maritime lands belonging 
to the AVagoma supply the gigantic mvule trees re- 
quired for the largest canoes. These patriarchs of the 
forest are felled and shaped with little axes on the spot; 
when finished they are pushed and dragged down the 
slopes by the workmen, and are launched and paddled 
over to the shores of Ujiji. 

South of the Wagoma are the Waguhha, who have 
been mentioned as the proprietors of the telets south- 
west of Ujiji. In their lands, according to the Arabs, 
is a lake or large water called Mikiziwd, whence the 
tribe upon its banks derives its name Wamikiziwd. 
Through the country of the Waguhha lies the route to 
Uruwwa, at present the western terminus of the Zan- 
zibar trade. The merchant crossing the sea-arm which 
separates Kasenge from the mainland of the Tanga- 
nyika, strikes towards Uruwwa ; the line runs over low 
levels shelving towards the lake, cut by a reticulation 
of streams unfordable after rain, and varied by hilly 
and rolling ground. Provisions are everywhere pro- 
curable, but the people, like the Wavinza, are considered 
dangerous. At Uruwwa the khete, or string of beads, 
is half the size of that current in other countries. The 
price of ivory per frasilah is 15 miranga, or 150 large 
khete of white, small-blue, and coarse-red porcelain beads, 
the latter called Lungenga ; besides which a string of 
sungomaji (pigeon-egg beads), and a few samesame, or 
coral-beads, are thrown in. The route numbers nine 
long or sixteen short stages; the general direction is 
south-westerly. Kiyombo, the sultan of Uruwwa, is at 
present friendly with the Arabs; he trades in ivory, 

L 2 



Digitized by Google 



148 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



slaves, and a little copper from Katata or Katanga, a 
district distant fifteen marches north-west of Usenda, 
the now well-known capital of the great chief Kazembe. 
The grandfather of the present Kazembe, the " viceroy " 
of the country lying south-west of the Tanganyika, and 
feudatory to Mwata ya Nvo, the sovereign of " Uro- 
pua," was first visited by Dr. Lacerda, governor of the 
Rios de Sena, in 1798-99. The traveller died, how- 
ever, after being nine months in the country, without 
recording the name and position of the African capital j 
the former was supplied by the expedition sent under 
Major Monteiro and Captain Gamitto in 1831-32; it is 
variously pronounced Lucenda, Luenda, and by the 
Arabs Usenda, the difference being caused probably by 
dialect or inflexion. According to the Arabs, the 
Kazembe visited by the Portuguese expedition in 1831, 
died about 1837, and was succeeded by his son the 
present chief. He is described as a man of middle age, 
of light-coloured complexion, handsomely dressed in a 
Surat cap, silk coat, and embroidered loin cloth ; he is 
rich in copper, ivory, and slaves, cloth and furniture, 
muskets and gunpowder. Many Arabs, probably 
half-castes, are said to be living with him in high 
esteem, and the medium of intercourse is the Kisawa- 
hili. Though he has many wives, he allows his subjects 
but one each, puts both adulterer and adulteress to 
death, and generally punishes by gouging out one or 
both eyes. 

On the Uruwwa route caravans are composed wholly 
of private slaves ; the races of the Tanganyika will not 
carry loads, and the Wanyamwezi, unmaritime savages 
like the Kafirs, who have a mortal dread and abhor- 
rence of water, refuse to advance beyond Ujiji. On 
account of its dangers, the thriving merchants have 



MARUNGU. 



149 



hitherto abandoned this line to debtors and desperate 
men. 

South of Uguhha lies the unimportant tribe of Wa- 
t'hembwe, whose possessions are within sight of Kawele 
in Ujiji. The race adjoining them is the Wakatete 
or Wakadete, and the country is called by the Arabs 
Awwal Marungu, on the northern frontier of Marungu. 
Marungu is one of the most important divisions of the 
lands about the Tanganyika. Amayr bin Said el 
Shaksi, a sturdy old merchant from Oman, who, wrecked 
about twelve years ago on that part of the coast, had 
spent five months with the people, living on roots and 
grasses, divides the region generically termed Marungu 
into three distinct provinces — Marungu to the north, 
Karungu in the centre, and Urungu on the south. 
Others mention a western Marungu, divided from the 
eastern by the Runangwa River, and they call the 
former in contradistinction Marungu Tafuna, from its 
sultan. 

Western Marungu extends according to the Arabs in 
depth from Ut'hembwe to the Wabisa, a tribe holding 
extensive lands westward of the Nyassa Lake. Tra- 
vellers from Unyamwezi to K'hokoro meet, near Ufipa, 
caravans of the northern Wabisa en route to Kilwa. 
Between Marungu and Usenda, the capital of the Ka« 
zembe, the road lies through the district of Kavvire, 
distant seven marches ; thence nine stages conduct 
them to the end of the journey. There is an upper 
land route through Uruwwa for those travelling from 
Ujiji to Usenda, and many caravans have passed from 
Unyanyembe direct through K'hokoro and Ufipa, to the 
country of the Kazembe. Mr. Cooley ("Geography of 
N'yassi," p. 7) conjectures that the Ambios or Imbies, 
Zimbas or Muzimbas, celebrated by the old Portuguese 

L 3 



Digitized by Google 



150 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA 

historians of Africa on account of an irruption, in 1570, 
from the north as far as the Zambezi River, " were no 
other than the M r Biza, or Moviza, as they are called by 
the Portuguese who still occupy its (the Nyassa's) 
south-western banks/' The proper name of this well- 
known tribe is Wdbisd (in the sing. Mbisa), not 
bishd, as it is pronounced at Zanzibar, where every 
merchant knows " Bisha ivory." The Wdbkd extend 
according to the Arabs from the west of the Nyassa or 
Kilwa Lake towards the south of the Tanganyika. 
They dress in bark-cloth, carry down their fine ivory to 
Tete and Kilimani (Quillimane) ; and every four or 
five years a caravan appears at Kilwa, where, confound- 
ing their hosts with the Portuguese, they call every 
Arab "muzungu," or white man. They are a semi- 
pastoral tribe, fond of commerce, and said to be civil 
and hospitable to strangers. It must be observed that 
those geographers are in error who connect the Wabisa 
with the Wanyamwezi ; they are distinct in manners 
and appearance, habits and language. Mr. Cooley has, 
for instance, asserted that "the 4 Moviza' and the * Mo- 
nomoezi' are similar in physical character and national 
marks." The only mark known to the Wabisa is the 
kishshah, or crest of hair ; not, as Khamisi Wa Tani 
asserted to Mr. Cooley ("Inner Africa laid Open," p. 61), 
a dotted line on the nose and forehead; whereas, the 
Wanyamwezi, as has been seen, puncture the skin. 
Thus Lacerda calls the " Moviza " a frizzled and peri- 
wigged people. The Arabs deny the assertion of 
Pereira, recorded by Bowdich, that the Moviza, like the 
Wahiao, file their teeth. 

Marungu is described by the Arabs as a hilly country 
like Ujiji and Uvira : the precincts of the lake, however, 
are here less bold than the opposite shore. Off the 



Digitized Dy Google 



MAKUNGU. 



151 



coast lie four or five islands, two of which, according to 
the Arabs, are of considerable size ; the only name given 
is Ukungwe, which appears, however, to be rather the 
name of the farthest point visible from Kasenge, and 
bearing S. 58° E. On the north-western frontier of 
Marungu, and about three marches from the lake, is the 
district called Utumbara, from Mtumbara its sultan. 
This Utumbara, which must not be confounded witli 
the district of the same name in Northern Unyamwezi, 
is said by the Arabs to be fifteen to twenty days' march 
from Usenda. 

Marungu, though considered dangerous, has often 
been visited by Arab merchants. After touching at 
Kasenge they coast along Uguhha for four days, not 
daring to land there in consequence of an event that 
happened about 1841-42. A large Arab caravan of 
200 armed slaves, led by Mohammed bin Salih and 
Sulayman bin Nasir, and with four coadjutors, Abd el 
Al and Ibn Habib, Shiahs of Bahrayn, Nasir and 
Rashid bin Salim el Harisi (who soon afterwards died 
at Marungu) took boat to Marungu, and in due time 
arrived at Usenda. They completed their cargo, and 
were returning in a single boat, when they were per- 
suaded by the Sultan Mtumbara to land, and to assist 
him in annihilating a neighbour, S&md or Kipyokd, 
living at about one day's march from the Lake. The 
Arabs, aided by Africans, attacked a boma, or palisade, 
where, bursting in, they found S&m&'s brother sitting 
upon pombe, with his wife. The villagers poured in a 
shower of arrows, to which the Arabs replied by shoot- 
ing down the happy couple over their cups. S&ma'g 
people fled, but presently returning they massacred the 
slaves of the Arabs, who were obliged to take refuge in 

L 4 



Digitized by Google 



152 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the grass till aid was afforded by their employer Mtum- 
bara. Samd, thus victorious, burned the Arab boat, 
and, compelling the merchants to return to Usenda, 
seized the first opportunity of slaying his rival. The 
Arabs have found means of sending letters to their 
friends, but they appear unable to leave the country. 
Their correspondence declares them to be living in 
favour with the Kazembe, who has presented them with 
large rice-shambas, that they have collected ivory and 
copper in large quantities, but are unable to find porters. 
This being highly improbable in a land where in 1807 
a slave cost five, and a tusk of ivory six or seven 
squares of Indian piece-goods, and as, moreover, several 
merchants, deluded by exaggerated accounts of the 
Kazembe's wealth and liberality, intrusted these men 
with considerable ventures, of which no tidings have as 
yet reached the creditors' ears, the more acute Arabs 
suspect that their countrymen are living from hand to 
mouth about Usenda, and are cultivating the land with 
scant prospect of quitting it. 

The people of Marungu arc called Wambozwd by the 
Arabs; they are subject to no king, but live under local 
rulers, and are ever at war with their neighbours. 
They are a dark and plain, a wild and uncomely race. 
Amongst these people is observed a custom which con- 
nects them with the AVangindo, AVahiao, and the slave 
races dwelling inland from Kilwa. They pierce the 
upper lip and gradually enlarge the aperture till the 
end projects in a kind of bill beyond the nose and chin, 
giving to the countenance a peculiar duck-like appear- 
ance. The Arabs, who abhor this hideous vagary of 
fashion, scarify the sides of the hole and attempt to 
make the flesh grow by the application of rock-salt. 
The people of Marungu, however, are little valued as 



Digitized by 



UPIPA. 



slaves ; they are surly and stubborn, exceedingly de- 
praved, and addicted to desertion. 

Crossing the Runangwa or Marungu River, which, 
draining the southern countries towards the Tanganyika, 
is represented to equal the Malagarazi in volume, the 
traveller passes through the districts of Marungu 
Tafuna, Ubeyya, and Iwemba. Thence, turning to the 
north, he enters the country of the Wapoka, between 
whom and the Lake lie the Wasowwa and the "VVafipa. 
This coast is divided from the opposite shore by a 
voyage of fourteen hours ; it is a hilly expanse divided 
by low plains, where men swarm according to the 
natives like ants. At a short distance from the shore 
lies the Mvuma group, seven rocks or islets, three of 
which are considerable in size, and the largest, shaped 
like a cone, breeds goats in plenty, whilst the sea around 
is rich in fish. There are other islets in the neighbour- 
hood, but none are of importance. 

Ufipa is an extensive district fertilised by many 
rivers. It produces grain in abundance, and the wild 
rice is of excellent flavour. Cattle abounded there 
before the Watuta, who held part of the country, began 
a system of plunder and waste, which ended in their 
emigration to the north of Uvinza ; cows, formerly 
purchased for a few strings of cheap white beads, are 
now rare and dear. The Wafipa are a wild but kindly 
people, who seldom carry arms: they have ever wel- 
comed the merchants that visited them for slaves and 
ivory, and they are subject to four or five principal 
chiefs. The servile specimens seen at Unyanyembe 
were more like the jungle races of the Deccan than 
Africans — small and short, sooty and shrunken men, so 
timid, ignorant, and suspicious, that it was found im- 
possible to obtain from them the simplest specimen of 



Digitized Dy 



154 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



their dialect. Some of them, like the Wanyoro, had 
extracted all the lower incisors. 

North of the Wafipa, according to the Arabs, lies 
another tribe, called Wat'hcmbe ( ?), an offshoot from 
the people on the opposite side of the Tanganyika. 
Here the lake receives a small river called the Mu run- 
guru (?). The circuit of the Tanganyika concludes with 
the Wat'hongwe, called from their sultan or their founder 
Wat'hongwe Kapana. In clear weather their long pro- 
montory is the furthest point visible from Kawele in 
Ujiji ; and their lands extend northwards to Ukaranga 
and the Malagarazi River. 

Such are the most important details culled from a 
mass of Arab oral geography : they are offered however 
to the reader without any guarantee of correctness. 
The principal authorities are the Shaykh Snay bin Amir 
el Harsi and Amayr bin Said el Shaksi ; the latter was 
an eye-witness. All the vague accounts noted down 
from casual informants were submitted to them for an 
imprimatur. Their knowledge and experience sur- 
passing those of others, it was judged better to record 
information upon trust from them only, rather than to 
heap together reliable and unreliable details, and as 
some travellers do, by striking out a medium, inevitably 
to confuse fact with fiction. Yet it is the explorer's 
unpleasant duty throughout these lands to doubt every- 
thing that has not been subjected to his own eyes. 
The boldest might look at the "Mombas Mission Map" 
and tremble. 



Digitized by 




Digitized Dy 



ft] 
/. 

o 

k 

i 
< 

SB 

2 

>• 
< 

V 

rr. 



Google 




CHAP. XVI. 

WE RETURN TO UNYANYEMBE. 

Immediately after the arrival of our caravan I made 
preparations for quitting Ujiji. The 26th May, 1858, 
was the day appointed for our departure, which was 
fated to resemble a flight more than the march of a 
peaceful Expedition. Said bin Salim, who had received 
as "Urangozi" or retaining-fee from his two African 
" brothers," Lurinda and Kannena, a boy-slave and a 
youth, thought only of conveying them safely out of the 
country. The Baloch, especially the Jemadar, who had 
invested every cubit of cloth and every ounce of 



Digitized by Google 



156 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

powder in serviles, were also trembling at the prospect 
of desertion. As usual, when these barbarians see 
preparations for departure, the Wajiji became more ex- 
tortionate and troublesome than before. A general 
drinking-bout had followed the return of the crews from 
Uvira : Kannena had not been sober for a fortnight. At 
last his succession of violent and maudlin fits ended 
fortunately for us in a high fever, which somewhat 
tamed his vice. Shortly after our disappearance, his 
territory was attacked by the predal Watuta : and had 
not the Arabs assisted in its defence, it would doubtless 
have been converted into a grisly solitude, like the once 
fertile and populous Uliha. Kannena, of course, fled 
into the mountains from the attack of the gallant 
rascals: he had courage enough to bully, but not to 
fight. I heard of him no more : he showed no pity to 
the homeless stranger, — may the world show none to 
him ! 

I shall long remember the morning of the 2Cth May, 
which afforded me the last sunrise-spectacle of the 
Tanganyika Lake. The charm of the scenery was 
perhaps enhanced by the reflection that my eyes might 
never look upon it again. Masses of brown-purple 
clouds covered the quarter of the heavens where the 
sun was about to rise. Presently the mists, ruffled like 
ocean billows, and luminously fringed with Tyrian 
purple, were cut by filmy rays, whilst, from behind their 
core, the internal living fire shot forth its broad beams, 
like the spokes of a hugh aerial wheel, rolling a flood of 
gold over the light blue waters of the lake. At last 
Dan Sol, who at first contented himself with glimmering 
through the cloud-mass, disclosed himself in his glory, 
and dispersed with a glance the obstacles of the vapour- 
ous earth : breaking into long strata and little pearly 
flakes, they soared high in the empyrean, whilst the 



THE DEPARTURE. 



157 



all-powerful luminary assumed undisputed possession of 
earth, and a soft breeze, the breath of the morn, as it 
is called in the East, awoke the waters into life. 

But I am not long to enjoy this mighty picture. A 
jarring din sings in my ears, contrasting strangely with 
the beautiful world before my eyes. A crowd of newly- 
engaged Pagazi are standing before me in the ecstasy of 
impatience: some poised like cranes upon the right foot, 
with the left sole placed against the knee, others with 
their arms thrown in a brotherly fashion round neigh- 
bours' necks, whilst others squatted in the usual Asiatic 
and African position, with their posteriora resting upon 
their calves and heels, their elbows on their thighs, and 
their chins propped upon their hands, gazed at me with 
that long longing look t which in these lands evidences a 
something sorely wanted. Presently, from Said bin 
Majid's home-bound caravan, with which I had consented 
to travel, shots and a popping of muskets rang through 
the air : the restless crowd that still watched me ap- 
peared at the sound of this signal to lose their wits. 
In a moment the space before the Tembe was cleared. 
After a few moments, Said bin Salim ran up violently 
excited, declaring that his orders were of no avail, that 
some parties were starting with, and others without, 
their loads, and that no man would take up the burden 
assigned to him on the yesterday. I directed him to 
compose himself, and since he could not remain, to pre- 
cede me with the headstrong gang as far as the Ruche 
River — the first stage — whence he would send back, as 
soon as possible, a few men bribed to carry my ham- 
mock and to remove the loose loads scattered upon the 
ground. These, as usual on such occasions, were our 
own. He departed greatly delighting in the opportu- 
nity of escaping further trouble, and of driving off his 
six wild slaves in safety: true to his inconsequential 



158 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Arabo- African blood, however, neglecting the appointed 
station in the eagerness of hurry, he marched on with 
Said bin Majid's men to at least double the distance, 
thus placing himself out of Kannena's reach, and 
throwing all my arrangements into direst confusion. 

Meanwhile, having breakfasted, we sat till the after- 
noon in the now empty and deserted Tembe, expecting 
the return of the slaves. As none appeared, I was 
induced by the utter misery depicted in the coun- 
tenances of the Baloch, and trusting that the return- 
porters would meet us on the way, to give orders for a 
march about 4 p.m., to mount my manchil, and to set 
out carried by only two men. Scarcely had I left the 
Tembe when a small party, headed by Said bin Salim's 
four children, passed by me at speed. Though sum- 
moned to halt, they sped onwards, apparently intending 
to fetch the loads from the house, and thus to relieve 
those left behind as a guard ; it proved afterwards that 
they were bound for the bazar to buy plantains for their 
patroon. Meanwhile, hurrying on with one Baloch, the 
astute Gul Mohammed, Valentine, and three sons of 
Ramji, as the shades of evening closed around us, we 
reached, without guide or direction from the surly 
villagers, the ferry of the Ruche River. Disappointed 
at not finding the camp at the place proposed, we were 
punted across the Styx-like stream ; and for what reason 
no man could say, the party took the swampy road along 
the Bay of Ukaranga. The mosquitos stung like 
wasps ; the loud spou tings and the hollow bursts of 
bellow, snort, and grunt of the hippopotami — in these 
lands they are brave as the bulls of the Spanish sierras 
— and the roar of the old male crocodile startled the 
party, whilst the porters had difficulty in preserving 
their balance as they waded through water waist-deep, 
and crept across plains of mud, mire, and sea-ooze. 



Digitized 



THE ANDROGYNE. 



As the darkness rendered the march risky, I gave the 
word, when arrived at a bunch of miserable huts, for a 
bivouac; the party, had I permitted it, would have 
wandered through the outer glooms without fixed pur- 
pose till permanently bogged. We spread our bedding 
upon the clear space between the cane-cones acting 
hovels, and we snatched, under a resplendent moon, and 
a dew that soaked through the blankets, a few hours of 
sleep, expecting to be aroused by a guide and porters 
before the end of night. Gaetano had preceded us with 
the provisions and the batterie de cuisine; we were 
destitute even of tobacco, and we looked forward ex- 
pectantly to the march. But the dawn broke, and 
morning flashed over the canopy above, and the sun 
poured his hot rays through the cool, clear air, still we 
found ourselves alone. The sons of Ramji, and the 
others composing our party, had gradually disap- 
peared, leaving with us only Gul Mohammed. Taking 
heart of grace, we then cleared out a hut, divided the 
bedding, lay down in the patience of expectation, and 
dined on goat. Our neighbour afforded us some food 
for the mind. Apparently an Androgyne, she had the 
voice, the look, and the thorax of a man, whilst the dress 
and the manner argued her to be a woman ; it was the 
only approach to the dubious sex seen by me in East 
Africa. 

About 2 p.m. appeared Ramazan and Salman, children 
of Said bin Said, with four porters, an insufficient 
supply for the long and trying march which they 
described. They insisted upon our enduring the heat 
and labour of the day so energetically, that they were 
turned with ignominy out of the village, and Avere told 
to send their master to escort us in the evening or on 
the morning of the next day. Accordingly at 9 a.m. of 
the 28th May appeared Said bin Salim and the Jemadar, 



Digitized by Google 



1G0 TTIE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



escorted by a full gang of bearers. The former, 
bursting with irritation, began that loud speaking which 
in the East is equivalent to impertinence; he was easily 
silenced by a more explosive and an angrier tone of voice. 
Having breakfasted, we set out leisurely, and after re- 
joining Said bin Majid's party we advanced until evening 
fell upon us at the end of the first day's stage. 

I have related the tale of our departure from the 
Tanganyika somewhat circumstantially : it was truly 
characteristic of Arab travelling in Eastern Africa. 
Said biu Salim had scant cause for hurry : slaves rarely 
desert on the day of departure ; knowing themselves to 
be watched they wait their opportunity, and find it 
perhaps — as our caravan discovered to its loss — - a week 
or two afterwards. The Arab was determined to gain a 
few miles by passing the appointed station ; he did so, 
and he lost two days. In his haste and dread of delay, 
he had neglected to lay in salt, ghee, or any other stores 
for the road but grain : consequently he was detained 
at half a dozen places to procure them. Finally, 
his froward children, who had done their utmost 
to waste time in the bazar, were not reproved, much 
less punished. Truly the half-caste Arab of Zan- 
zibar is almost as futile as the slavish moiety of his 
ancestry. 

There was little novelty in our return-march to 
Unyamyembe. We took the northerly route, crossing and 
skirting the lower spurs of the mountains which form 
the region of Uhha. During the first few stages, 
being still within the influence of that bag of jEolus, the 
Tanganyika trough,- we endured tornados of wind and 
heavy rain, thunder and lightning. After the 5th 
March the threatening clouds drew off, the dank heavy 
dew diminished, and the weather became clear and hot, 
with a raw cold eastern wind pouring through the tepid 



A SLAVE MURDERED. 161 

temperature, and causing general sickness. On the 
29th May we pitched at Uyonwa, a little settlement of 
AVabuha, who have already raised crops of sweet 
potatoes ; if they have the sense to avoid keeping cattle, 
the only attraction to the robber Watuta, they may 
once more convert the sad waste of Uhha, a wilderness 
where men are now wolves to one another, into a land 
smiling with grains and fruits. Beyond Uyonwa we 
hurried over " neat-tongue " hills, separated by green 
swamps and black rivulets, with high woody banks, over 
jungle paths thick with spear and tiger grass, brambly 
bush and tall growths of wild arrowroot, and over a 
country for the most part rough and rugged, with here 
and there an acacia-barren, a bamboo-clump, or a lone 
Palmyra. Approaching the Rusugi River, which we 
forded on the 1st June at the upper or Parugerero 
passage ; the regular succession of ridge and swamp 
gave way to a dry, stony, and thorny slope, rolling with 
an eastward decline. \Ve delayed for an hour at the 
Salt-pass, to lay in a supply of the necessary, and the 
temptation to desert became irresistible. Muhabanya, 
the u slavey " of the establishment, ran away, carrying 
off his property and my hatchet. The Jemadar was 
rendered almost daft by the disappearance of half of his 
six slaves. A Mnyamwezi porter placed his burden — 
it was a case of Cognac and vinegar, deeply regretted ! — 
upon the ground, and levanted. Two other porters lost 
their way, and disappeared for some days ; their com- 
rades, standing in awe of the Wavinza, would not ven- 
ture in search of them. The Kirangozi or Mnyamwezi 
guide, who had accompanied the Expedition from the 
coast, remained behind, because his newly-purchased 
slave-girl had become foot-sore, and unable to advance ; 
finding the case hopeless, he cut off her head, lest of his 

VOL. II. M 



Digitized by Google 



162 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

evil good might come to another. The party gave the 
usual amount of trouble. The bull-headed Mabruki 
had invested his capital in a small servile, an infant 
phenomenon, who, apparently under six years, trotted 
manfully alongside the porters, bearing his burden of 
hide-bed and water-gourd upon his tiny shoulder. For 
some days he was to his surly master as her first doll to 
a young girl : when tired he was mounted upon the 
back, and after crossing every swamp his feet were care- 
fully wiped. When the novelty, however, wore off, the 
little unfortunate was so savagely beaten that I insisted 
upon his being committed to the far less hard-hearted 
Bombay. The Hanmals who carried my manchil were 
the most annoying of their kind. Wanyamwezi veterans 
of the way (their chief man wore a kizbao or waistcoat, 
and carried an old Tower musket), originally five in 
number, and paid in advance as far as Unyanyembe ; 
they deserted slowly and surely, till it was necessary to 
raise a fresh gang. For a short time they worked well, 
then they fell of£ In the mornings when their names 
were called they hid themselves in the huts, or they 
squatted pertinaciously near the camp fires, or they 
rushed ahead of the party. On the road they hurried 
forwards, recklessly dashing the manchil, without pity 
or remorse, against stock and stone. A man allowed 
to lag behind never appeared again on that march, and 
more than once they attempted to place the hammock 
on the ground and to strike for increase of wages, till 
brought to a sense of their duty by a sword-point ap- 
plied to their ribs. They would halt for an hour to 
boil their sweet potatoes, but if I required the delay of 
five minutes, or the advance of five yards, they became 
half mad with fidgetiness ; they were as loud-voiced, 
noisy and insolent, as turbulent and irritable, as grum- 



Digitized by 



THE JUNGLE FIRE. 



1C3 



bling, importunate, and greedy specimens of the genus 
homo, species Africanus, as I have ever seen, even 
amongst the "sons of water" in the canoes of Ujiji. 
In these lands, however, the traveller who cannot utilise 
the raw material that comes to hand will make but 
little progress. 

On the 2nd June we fell into our former route at 
Jambeho, in the alluvial valley of the Malagarazi River. 
The party was pitched in two places by the mismanage- 
ment of Said bin Salim ; already the porters began to 
raise loud cries of Posho ! (provaunt !) and their dread 
of the Wavinza increased as they approached the 
Malagarazi Ferry. The land in the higher levels was 
already drying up, the vegetation had changed from 
green to yellow, and the strips of grassy and tree-clad 
rock, buttressing the left bank of the river, afforded 
those magnificent spectacles of conflagration which have 
ever been favourite themes with the Indian muse : — 

"silence profound 
Enwraps the forest, save where bubbling springs 
Gush from the rock, or where the echoing hills 
Give back the tiger's roar, or where the boughs 
Burst into crackling flame and wide extends 
The blaze the Dragon's fiery breath has kindled." 

Wilson's Uttara llama Ckeritra, act 2. 

A sheet of flame, beginning with the size of a spark, 
overspread the hill-side, advancing on the wings of the 
wind, with the roaring rushing sound of many hosts 
where the grass lay thick, shooting huge forky tongues 
high into the dark air, where tall trees, the patriarchs 
of the forest, yielded their lives to the blast, smouldering 
and darkening, as if about to be quenched where the 
rock afforded scanty fuel, then flickering, blazing up 
and soaring again till topping the brow of the hill, the 
sheet became a thin line of fire, and gradually vanished 

M 2 



Digitized by Google 



104 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



from the view, leaving its reflection upon the canopy of 
lurid smoke studded with sparks and bits of live braise, 
which marked its descent on the other side of the but- 
tress. Resuming our march along the cold and foggy 
vale of the Malagarazi, and crossing on the third day 
the stony slabby hills that bound the fluviatile plain 
northward, we reached, on the 4th June, the dreaded 
ferry-place of the river. 

The great Malagarazi still swollen, though the rains 
had ceased, by the surplus moisture of the sopped earth, 
had spread its wide heart of shallow waters, variegated 
with narrow veins — a deeper artery in the centre 
showing the main stream — far over the plain. Thus 
offering additional obstacles to crossing, it was turned 
to good account by the Mutware, the Lord of the Ferry. 
On arrival at the Kraal overlooking the river I sum- 
moned this Charon, who demanded as his preliminary 
obolus one pot of oil, seven cloths, and 300 khete 
of blue porcelains. Said bin Majid, our companion, 
paid about one-fifth the sum. But the Kraal was 
uncomfortable, we were stung out by armies of ants ; 
a slight earthquake, at 11.15 a.m., on the 4th June, 
appeared a bad omen to Said bin Salim : briefly, I was 
compelled to countenance the extortion. On the next 
morning we set out, having been cannily preceded by 
Said bin Majid. Every difficulty was thrown in the 
way of our boxes and baggage. Often, when I refused 
the exorbitant sum of four and even five khete per load, 
the fellows quietly poled off, squatted in their canoes, 
and required to be summoned back by Said bin Salim 
with the abjectest concessions. They would not take 
on board a Goancse or a Baloch without extra pay, and 
they landed, under some pretext, Said bin Salim and the 
Jemadar upon a dry knoll in the waste of waters, and 



d by Google 



PERRYMEXS' DODOES. 



165 



demanded and received a cloth before they would rescue 
them. In these and kindred manoeuvres nearly seven 
hours were expended ; no accidents, however, occurred, 
and at 4 p.m. we saw ourselves, with hearts relieved 
of some load, once more at Ugogo, on the left bank of 
the river. I found my companion, who had preceded 
me, in treaty for the purchase of a little pig ; fortunately 
the beads would not persuade the porters to part with 
it, consequently my pots escaped pollution. 

An eventless march of twelve days led from the Mala- 
garazi Ferry to Unyanyembe. Avoiding the dkour to 
Msene we followed this time the more direct southern 
route. I had expected again to find the treacle-like 
surface over which we had before crept, and perhaps even 
in a worse state; but the inundations compelled the 
porters to skirt the little hills bounding the swamps. 
Provisions — rice, holcus and panicum, manioc, cu- 
cumbers and sweet potatoes, pulse, ground-nuts, and 
tobacco — became plentiful as we progressed ; the 
arrowroot and the bhang plant flourished wild, and 
plantains and palmyras were scattered over the land. 
On the 8th June, emerging from inhospitable Uvinza 
into neutral ground, we were pronounced to be out of 
danger, and on the next day, when in the meridian of 
Usagozi, we were admitted for the first time to the 
comfort of a village. Three days afterwards we se- 
parated from Said bin Majid. Having a valuable store 
of tusks, he had but half loaded his porters ; he also 
half fed them : the consequence was that they marched 
like mad men, and ours followed like a flock of sheep. 
He would not incur the danger and expense of visiting 
a settlement, and he pitched in the bush, where pro- 
visions were the least obtainable. When I told him 
that we must part company, he deprecated the measure 



1G6 TIIE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

with his stock statement, viz. that at the distance of 
an hour's march there was a fine safe village full of 
provisions, and well fitted for a halt. The hour's 
march proved a long stage of nearly sixteen miles, over 
a remarkably toilsome country, a foul jungle with tsetse- 
haunted thorn-bushes, swamps, and inundated lands, 
ending at a wretched cluster of huts, which could 
supply nothing but a tough old hen. I was sorry to 
part with the Arab merchant, a civil man, and a well- 
informed, yet somewhat addicted to begging like all his 
people. His marching freaks, however, were unendur- 
able, dawdling at the beginning of the journey, rushing 
through the middle, and lagging at the end. We 
afterwards passed him on the road, of course he had 
been delayed, and subsequently, during a long halt at 
Unyanyembe, he frequently visited me. 

On the 17th June the caravan, after sundry difficul- 
ties, caused by desertion, passed on to Irora the village 
of Salim bin Salih, who this time received us hospitably 
enough. Thence we first sighted the blue hills of Un- 
yanyembe, our destination. The next day saw us at 
Yombo, where, by good accident, we met a batch of seven 
cloth-bales and one box en route to Ujiji, under charge 
of our old enemy Salim bin Sayf of Dut'humi. My 
complaint against " Msopora," forwarded from Zury- 
omero, had, after Lieut. -Col. Hamcrton's decease, on 
the 5th July 1857, been laid by M. Cochet, Consul de 
France, before H. M. the Sayyid Majid, — a fact which 
accounts for the readiness with which our effects were on 
this occasion delivered up, and for the non-appearance 
of the individual in person. We also received the 
second packet of letters which reached us during that 
year: as usual, they were full of evil news. Almost 
every one had lost some relation or friend near and dear 



Digitized by 



THE ARAB'S BREAKFAST. 167 

to him : even Said bin Salim's hearth had been spoiled 
of its chief attraction, an only son, who, born it was 
supposed in consequence of my " barakat " (propitious 
influence), had been named Abdullah. Such tidings are 
severely felt by the wanderer who, living long behind 
the world, and unable to mark its gradual changes, lulls, 
by dwelling upon the past, apprehension into a belief 
that his home has known no loss, and who expects 
again to meet each old familiar face ready to smile 
upon his return as it was to weep at his depar- 
ture. 

After a day's halt to collect porters at Yombo, we 
marched from it on the 20th June, and passing the 
scene of our former miseries, the village under the 
lumpy hill, " Zimbili," we re-entered Kazeh. There I 
was warmly welcomed by the hospitable Snay bin Amir, 
who, after seating us to coffee, as is the custom, for a 
few minutes in his Barzah or ante-room, led us to the 
old abode, which had been carefully repaired, swept, 
and plastered. There a large metal tray bending under 
succulent dishes of rice and curried fowl, giblets and 
manioc boiled in the cream of the ground-nut, and 
sugared omelets flavoured with ghee and onion shreds, 
presented peculiar attractions to half-starved travel- 
lers. 

Our return from Ujiji to Unyanyembe was thus 
accomplished in twenty-two stations, which, halts in- 
cluded, occupied a total of twenty-six days, from the 
26th May to the 20th June 1858, and the distance 
along the road may be computed at 265 statute 
miles. 

After a day's repose at Kazeh, I was called upon, 
as " etiquette" directs, by the few Arab merchants there 
present. Musa Mzuri, the Indian, was still absent at 

u A 



Digitized by Google 



168 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Karagwah, and the greater part of the commercial body 
was scattered in trading-trips over the country. I 
had the satisfaction of finding that my last indent on 
Zanzibar for 400 dollars' worth of cloth and beads 
had arrived under the charge of Tani bin Sulayyam, 
who claimed four Gorah or pieces for safe conduct. I 
also recovered, though not without some display of 
force, the table and chair left by the escort and the 
slaves in the Dungomaro Nullah. The articles had been 
found by one Muinyi Khamisi, a peddling and not over- 
honest Msawahili, who demanded an unconscionable 
sum for porterage, and whose head-piece assumed the 
appearance of a coal scuttle when rewarded with the six 
cloths proposed by Snay bin Amir. The debauched 
Wazira, who had remained behind at Msene, appeared 
with an abundance of drunken smiles, sideling in at the 
doorway, which he scratched more Africano with one 
set of five nails, whilst the other was applied to a similar 
purpose a posteriori. He was ejected, despite his loud 
asseverations that he, and he only, could clear us through 
the dangerous Wagogo. The sons of Ramji, who, 
travelling from Msene, had entered Kazeh on the day 
preceding our arrival, came to the house en masse, 
headed by Kidogo, with all the jaunty and sans souci 
gait and manner of yore. I had imagined that by that 
time they would have found their way to the coast. 
I saw no reason, however, for re-engaging them, 
and they at once returned to the gaieties of their 
capital. 

During the first week following the march all paid 
the inevitable penalty of a toilsome trudge through a 
perilous jungly country, in the deadliest season of the 
year, when the waters are drying up under a fiery sun, 
and a violent vent de bise from the East, which pours 



Digitized by Google 



THE 44 TRUE APOTHECARY. 



1G9 



through the tepid air like cold water into a warm bath. 
Again I suffered severely from swelling and numbness 
of the extremities, and strength returned by tantalisingly 
slow degrees. My companion was a martyr to obstinate 
deafness and to a dimness of vision, which incapacitated 
him from reading, writing, and observing correctly. 
Both the Goanese were prostrated by fever, followed by 
severe rheumatism and liver-pains. In the case of Valen- 
tine, who, after a few hours lay deprived of sense and 
sensation, quinine appearing useless — the malady only 
changed from a quotidian to a tertian type — I resolved 
to try the Xinctura Warburgii, which had been used with 
such effect by Lieut.-Col. Hamerton at Zanzibar. " 0 
true apothecary ! " The result was quasi-miraculous. 
The anticipated paroxysm did not return; the painful 
emetism at once ceased ; instead of a death-like lethargy, 
a sweet childish sleep again visited his aching eyes, and, 
chief boon of all to those so affected, the corroding 
thirst gave way to an appetite, followed by sound if not 
strong digestion. Finally, the painful and dangerous 
consequences of the disease were averted, and the sub- 
sequent attacks were scarcely worthy of notice. I feel 
bound in justice, after a personal experiment, which 
ended similarly, to pay this humble tribute of gratitude 
to Dr. Warburg's invaluable discovery. The Baloch, in 
their turn, yielded to the effects of malaria, many com- 
plained of ulcerations and prurigo, and their recovery 
was protracted by a surfeit of food and its consequences. 
But, under the influence of narcotics, tonics, and stimu- 
lants, we presently progressed towards convalescence ; 
and stronger than any physical relief, in my case, was 
the moral effect of success, and the cessation of the 
ghastly doubts and cares, and of the terrible wear and 
tear of mind which, from the coast to Uvira, had never 



Digitized by Google 



170 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

been absent. I felt the proud consciousness of having 
done my best, under conditions from beginning to end 
the worst and the most unpromising, and that whatever 
future evils Fate might have in store for me, that it 
could not rob me of the meed won by the hardships 
and sufferings of the past. 

Several Arab merchants were preparing to return 
coastwards for the "Mausim" (monsoon), or Indian 
trading-season, which, at Zanzibar, includes the months 
of December, January, and February, and they were 
not unwilling to avail themselves of my escort. But 
several reasons detained me at Kazeh. Some time was 
required to make preparations for the long down march. 
I had not given up the project of returning to the sea- 
board via Kilwa. Moreover, it was judged advisable 
to collect from the Arabs details concerning the inte- 
resting countries lying to the north and south of the 
line traversed by the Expedition. As has been men- 
tioned in Chap. XL, the merchants had detailed to 
me, during my first halt at Kazeh, their discovery of a 
large Bahr — a sea or lake — lying fifteen or sixteen 
marches to the north ; and from their descriptions and 
bearings, my companion had laid down the water in 
a hand-map forwarded to the Royal Geographical 
Society. All agreed in claiming for it superiority of 
size over the Tanganyika Lake. I saw at once that 
the existence flf this hitherto unknown basin would 
explain many discrepancies promulgated by speculative 
geographers, more especially the notable and deceptive 
differences of distances, caused by the confusion of the 
two waters.* Remained only to ascertain if the Arabs 

* Mr. Erhardt, for instance, " Memoir on the Chart of East and Central 
Africa, compiled by J. Erhardt and J. Rebmann, London, 1856," announces 
the " existence of a Great Lake, called in the south Niandsha (Nyassa), in 



THE ANGLO-INDIAN. 



171 



had not, with the usual Oriental hyperbole, exaggerated 
the dimensions of the Northern Lake. 

My companion, who had recovered strength from the 
repose and the comparative comfort of our head-quarters, 
appeared a fit person to be detached upon this duty; 
moreover, his presence at Kazeh was by no means desi- 
rable. To associate at the same time with Arabs and 
Anglo-Indians, who are ready to take offence when it is 
least intended, who expect servility as their due, and 
whose morgue of colour induces them to treat all skins a 
shade darker than their own as " niggers/' is even more 
difficult than to avoid a rupture when placed between 
two friends who have quarrelled with each other. More- 
over, in this case, the difficulty was exaggerated by the 
Anglo-Indian's complete ignorance of Eastern manners 
and customs, and of any Oriental language beyond, at 
least, a few words of the debased Anglo-Indian jargon. 

I have dwelt upon this subject because my companion 
has thought proper to represent (in Blackwood, Oct. 
1859) that I was " most unfortunately quite done up, 
but most graciously consented to wait with the Arabs 
and recruit health." This is far from being the fact. I 
had other and more important matter to work out. 
Writing from the spot ( Unyanyembe, 2nd July 1858, 
and published in the Proceedings of the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society, 21th Jan. 1859) ray companion repre- 
sents the case somewhat differently. " To diminish the 
disappointment, caused by the short-coming of our cloth, 
in not seeing the whole of the Sea Ujiji, I have proposed 
to take a flying trip to the unknown lake, while Captain 
Burton prepares for our return homewards." 

the north Ukerewc, find on the coast Niasa and Bnhari ya Uniatnesi," 
makes the distance through Dschaga (Chhaga) and the Masai plains only 
fifty-nine marches. 



Digitized by Google 



172 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



On the 30th June the subject was brought forward 
in the presence of Said bin Salim and the Baloch. The 
former happily lodged at Kazeh, felt loath to tear him- 
self from the massive arms of his charmer Halimah. 
He finessed as usual, giving an evasive answer, viz. 
that he could not decide till the last day, and he 
declined to influence the escort, who afterwards declared 
that he had done all in his power to deter them from 
the journey. In vain my companion threatened him 
with forfeiture of his reward after he returned to Zanzi- 
bar; in vain my companion told him that it was forfeited.* 
He held firm, and I was not over-anxious in influencing 
him, well knowing that though the Baloch, a stolid 
race, might prove manageable, the brain of the Machia- 
vellian Arab, whose egregious selfishness never hesitated 
at any measure calculated to ensure its gratification, 
was of a somewhat too heavy metal for the article 
opposed to it. That Said bin Salim attempted to thwart 
the project I have no doubt. The Kirangozi, and the 
fifteen porters hired from his village with the tempting 
offer of five cloths per man, showed an amount of fear 
and shirking hardly justified by the real risks of tread- 
ing so well known a tract. The Jemadar and his men 
at first positively refused their escort, but the mean- 
ing word " Bakhshish " slipping in reassured me. After 
informing them that in case of recusancy their rations 
should be stopped, I inquired the amount of largesse 
expected. The ten efficient men composing the guard 

• I transcribe the following words from my companion's paper (Black- 
wood, October 1859) : "I urged that it was as much his (Said bin Salim's) 
duty as mine to go there; and said, unless he changed his present resolution, 
I should certainly recommend the Government not to pay the gratuity which 
the consul had promised him on condition that he worked entirely to our 
satisfaction, in assisting the Expedition to carry out the Government's 
plans." 



Digitized by Google 



THE NORTIIERX KINGDOMS. 



173 



demanded fifteen cloths a piece, besides one porter each 
to carry their matchlocks and pervanents. The number 
of the porters was reduced, the cloth was procured from 
an Arab merchant, Sayf bin Said cl Wardi, at an expense 
of one hundred dollars, made payable by draught upon 
Ladha Damha of Zanzibar : at the same time, the Baloch 
were warned that they must option between this and the 
reward conditionally promised to them after return.* 
Their bad example was followed by the old and faithful 
servant " Bombay," who required instant dismissal unless 
he also received cloth before the journey : he was 
too useful to my companion as interpreter and steward 
to be lightly parted with. But the granting his claim 
led to a similar strike and menace on the part of the 
bull-headed slave Mabruki, who, being merely a " head- 
ache " to me, at once " got the sack " till he promised, 
if pardoned, to shake off his fear, and not to be 
naughty in future. By dint of severe exertion my 
companion was enabled to leave Kazeh on the 10th 
July. 

I proceed to recount the most important portion 
of the information — for ampler details the reader is 
referred to the Journal of the Royal Geographical 
Society — collected during my halt at Kazeh from vari- 
ous sources, Arab and African, especially from Snay bin 
Amir, concerning — 



• So my report printed in the Proceedings Roy. Geog. Soc. loco cit 41 Our 
asses, thirty in number, all died, our porters ran away, our goods were left 
behind; our black escort became so unmanageable as to require dismissal ; the 
weakness of our party invited attacks, and our wretched Baloch deserted us 
in the jungle, and throughout have occasioned an infinity of trouble." 



Digitized by Google 



174 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



THE NORTHERN KINGDOMS: KARAGWAH, UGANDA, 

AND UNVORO. 

The extensive and hitherto unknown countries de- 
scribed in this chapter, being compact despotisms, re- 
sembling those of Ashanti and Dahomey more than the 
semi-monarchies of Unyamwezi and Urundi, or the 
barbarous republics of Uvinza and Ujiji, are designated 
the Northern Kingdoms. It is regrettable that oral 
information, and not the results of actual investigation, 
are offered to the reader concerning regions so interest- 
ing as the Southern Tanganyika, the Northern King- 
doms, and the provinces south of Unyanyembe. But 
absolute obstacles having interfered, it was judged 
advisable to use the labours of others rather than to 
omit all notice of a subject which has the importance 
of novelty, because it lacked the advantages of a regular 
exploration. 

Informants agree in representing the northern races 
as superior in civilisation and social constitution to the 
other tribes of Eastern and Central Africa. Like the 
subjects of the Kazembe, they have built extensive and 
regular settlements, and they reverence even to worship 
a single despot, who rules with a rigour which in Europe 
would be called barbarity. Having thrown off the rude 
equality of their neighbours, they recognise ranks in 
society ; there is order amongst men, and some idea of 
honour in women ; they add to commerce credit, with- 
out which commerce can hardly exist ; and they hospi- 
tably entertain strangers and guests. These accounts 
are confirmed by the specimens of male and female 
slaves from Karagwah and Uganda seen at Unyan- 



¦ 



Digitized by Google 



THE NORTHERN* KINGDOMS. 



yembe : between them and the southern races there is 
a marked physical difference. Their heads are of a 
superior cast : the regions where the reflective faculties 
- and the moral sentiments, especially benevolence, are 
placed, rise high ; the nose is more of the Caucasian 
type ; the immoderate masticating apparatus which 
gives to the negro and the lower negroid his peculiar 
aspect of animality, is greatly modified, and the expres- 
sion of the countenance is soft, kindly, and not deficient 
in intelligence. 

From Unyanyembe to Kibuga, the capital of Uganda, 
are fifty-three stages, which are distributed into four 
crucial stations of Usui, Karagwah, dependent Unyoro, 
and Uganda. A few remarks concerning each of these 
divisions may not be unacceptable. 

Between Unyanyembe and Usui are sixteen long, or 
nineteen short, stages. Though the road is for the 
most part rough and hilly, the marches can scarcely be 
reduced below ten statute, or six rectilinear geo. miles 
per diem ; in fact, the geographer's danger when making 
these estimates is, that of falling, through fear of exag- 
geration, into the opposite and equally incorrect extreme. 
The general direction of the line leading from Kazeh, 
in Unyanyembe, to Karagwah, pointed out by Snay 
bin Amir, bore 345° (corrected 332°); the length of 
the nineteen marches would be about 115 geo. miles. 
The southern frontier of Usui may, therefore, be safely 
placed in S. lat. 3° 1C. 

The route from Kazeh to Usui falls at once westward 
of the line leading to the Nyanza Lake ; it diverges, 
however, but little at first, as they both traverse the 
small districts of Ulikampuri, Unyambewa, and Ukuni. 
Usonga, crossed in five short marches, is the first consi- 
derable district north of Unyanyembe. Thence the 



4 



Digitized by Google 



17G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



road enters the province of Utumbara, which is flanked 
on the east by Usambiro, and on the west by Uyungu, 
governed by the Muhinda Sultan, Kanze. Utumbara, 
as has been mentioned, was lately plundered, and 
Ruhembe, its chief, was slain, by the predatory Watuta. 
In Utumbara and Usambiro the people are chiefly the 
AVafyoma, a tribe of Wanyamwezi : they are a commer- 
cial race, like the Wajiji — trafficking in hoes and ivory ; 
and their present Sultan, Mutawazi, has often been 
visited by the Arabs. Uyofu, governed by Mnyamu- 
runda, is the northern boundary of Unyamwezi, after 
which the route enters the ill famed territory of 
Usui. 

Usui is traversed in seven marches, making a sum of 
twenty-six from Kazeh. According to the former com- 
putation, a total march of about 156 geo. miles would 
place the southern frontier of Karagwah in S. lat. 2° 40'. 
The road in several parts discloses a view of the Nyanza 
Lake. Usui is described as a kind of neutral ground 
between the rolling plateau of Unyamwezi and the 
highlands of Karagwah : it is broken by ridges in two 
places — Nyakasene the fourth, and Ruhembe the 
seventh stage, where mention is also made of a small 
stream. From this part of the country a wild nutmeg 
is brought to Kazeh by caravans : the Arabs declare 
that it grows upon the well-wooded hills, and the only 
specimen shown was heavy and well flavoured, present- 
ing a marked contrast to the poor produce of Zanzibar 
island. 

The Wasui, according to the Arabs, are not Wan- 
yamwezi. They are considered dangerous, and they 
have frequently cut off the route to caravans from 
Karagwah. Their principal sultan, a Muhinda named 
Suwarora, demands exorbitant blackmail, and is de- 



Digitizec 



K A RAO WAIT. 177 

scribed as troublesome and overbearing: his bad ex- 
ample has been imitated by his minor chiefs. 

The kingdom of Karagwah, which is limited on the 
north by the Kitangure or Kitangule River, a great 
western influent of the Nyanza Lake, occupies twelve 
days in traversing. The usual estimate would thus 
give it a depth of 72, and place the northern limit 
bout 228 rectilinear geo. miles from Kazeh, or in 
S. lat. 1° 40'. But the Kitangure River, according to 
the Arabs, falls into the Nyanza diagonally from south- 
west to north-east. Its embouchure will, therefore, not 
be distant from the equator. The line of road is thus 
described: After ascending the hills of Ruhembe the 
route, deflecting eastward, pursues for three days the 
lacustrine plain of the Nyanza. At Tenga, the fourth 
station, the first gradient of the Karagwah mountains is 
crossed, probably at low levels, where the spurs fall 
towards the lake. Kafuro is a large district where 
merchants halt to trade, in the vicinity of Weranh&nja, 
the royal settlement, which commands a distant view of 
the Nyanza. Nyakahanga, the eighth stage, is a 
gradient similar to that of Tenga; and Magugi, the 
tenth station, conducts the traveller to the northernmost 
ridge of Karagwah. The mountains are described as 
abrupt and difficult, but not impracticable for laden 
asses : they are compared by the Arabs to the Rubeho 
chain of Usagara. This would raise them about 4000 
feet above the mean level of the Unyamwezi plateau 
and the Nyanza water, and about 8000 feet above this 
sea. Their surface, according to the Arabs, is alter- 
nately earth and stone, the former covered with plan- 
tains and huge timber-trees, the latter bare, probably by 
reason of their altitude. There are no plains, bush, or 
jungle, but the deep ravines and the valleys intersecting 

VOL. II. n 



Digitized by Google 



178 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the various ridges drain the surface of the hills, and are 
the sites of luxuriant cultivation. The people of i.Ia- 
ragwah, averse to the labour of felling the patriarchs 
of the forest, burn " bois de vache," like the natives of 
Usukuma. North of Magugi, at Katanda, a broad flat 
extends eastwards: the path thence descends the nor- 
thern counterslope, and falls into the alluvial plain of 
the Kitungure River. 

Karagwah is thus a mass of highlands, bounded on 
the north by dependent Unyoro, on the south by Usui, 
eastward by the tribes of Wahayya and Wapororo, upon 
the lacustrine plain of the Nyanza ; on the south-west 
it inosculates with Urundi, which has been described as 
extending from the north-eastern extremity of the 
Tanganyika Lake. Its equatorial position and its 
altitude enable it to represent the Central African 
prolongation of the Lunar Mountains. Ptolemy de- 
scribes this range, which he supposes to send forth 
the White Nile, as stretching across the continent for 
a distance of 10° of longitude. For many years this 
traditional feature has somewhat fallen into discredit : 
some geographers have changed the direction of the 
line, which, like the Himalayas, forms the base of the 
South African triangle from east and west to north and 
south, thus converting it into a formation akin to the 
ghauts or lateral ranges of the Indian peninsula ; whilst 
others have not hesitated to cast ridicule upon the 
mythus. From the explorations of the "Mombas 
Mission " in Usumbara, Chhaga, and Kitui, and from 
the accounts of Arab visitors to the lands of Umasai 
and the kingdom of Karagwah, it appears that from the 
fifth parallel of S. lat. to the equator, an elevated mass 
of granite and sandstone formation crosses from the 
shores of the Indian Ocean to the centre of Tropical 



Digitized by Google 



THE LUNAR MOUNTAINS. 179 

Africa. The vast limestone band which extends from 
the banks of the Burramputra to those of the Tagus 
appears to be prolonged as far south as the Eastern 
Horn, and near the equator to give place to sand- 
stone formations. The line is not, however, as might 
be expected from analogy with the Himalayan, a 
continuous unbroken chain; it consists of insulated 
mountains, apparently volcanic, rising from elevated 
plains, and sometimes connected by barren and broken 
ridges. The south-eastern threshold of the Lunar Cor- 
dillera is the highland region of Usumbara, which may 
attain the height of 3000 or 4000 feet above sea-level. 
It leads by a succession of mountain and valley to 
Chhaga, whose apex is the "^Ethiopian Olympus," 
Kilima-Ngao. From this corner-pillar the line trends 
westward, and the route to Burkene passes along the 
base of the principal elevations, Doengo Engai and 
Endia Siriani. Beyond Burkene lies the Nyanza Lake, 
in a huge gap which, breaking the continuity of the 
line, drains the regions westward of Kilima-Ngao, 
whilst those to the eastward, the Pangani and other 
similar streams, discharge their waters to the south- 
east into the Indian Ocean. The kingdom of Karagwah 
prolongs the line to Urundi, upon the Tanganyika 
Lake, where the south-western spurs of the Lunar 
Mountains form a high continuous belt. Mr. Petherick, 
of Khartum, travelling twenty-five marches, each of 
twenty miles (?), in a south-south- western and due- 
southerly direction from the Bahr el Ghazal, found a 
granitic ridge rising, he supposes 2000 to 2500 feet 
above the plain, near the equator, and lying nearly 
upon the same parallel of latitude, and in about 27° E. 
long. Beyond that point the land is still unexplored. 
Thence the mountains may sink into the great Depres- 

N 2 



Digitized by Google 



180 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



sion of Central Africa, or, deflected northwards of the 
kingdom of Uropua, they may inosculate with the ridge 
which, separating the northern negroid races of Islam- 
ised Africa from their negro brethren to the south, is 
popularly known, according to Denham and Clapperton, 
as el-Gibel Gumhr, — Jebel Kamar, — or Mons Lunae. 

The high woody hills of Karagwah attract a quantity 
of rain. The long and copious wet monsoon divides 
the year into two seasons — a winter of seven or eight, 
and a summer of four or five months. The Vuli, or 
lesser rains, commence, as at Zanzibar, with the Nayruz 
(29th of August); and they continue with little intermis- 
sion till the burst of the Masika, which lasts in Karagwah 
from October to May or June. The winds, as in 
Unyamwezi, are the Kaskazi, or north and north-east 
gales, which shift during the heavier falls of rain to the 
Kosi, the west and south-west. Storms of thunder and 
lightning are frequent, and the Arabs compare the 
down-pour rather to that of Zanzibar island than to the 
scanty showers of Unyamwezi. The sowing season at 
Karagwah, as at Msenc and Ujiji, begins with the 
Vuli, when maize and millet, the voandzeia, various 
kinds of beans and pulse, are committed to the well- 
hoed ground. Rice being unknown, the people depend 
much upon holcus : this cereal, which is sown in Oc- 
tober to prepare for the Masika in November, has, in 
the mountains, a short cane and a poor insipid grain of 
the red variety. The people convert it into pombe ; 
and they make the wine called mawa from the plantains, 
which in several districts are more abundant than the 
cereals. Karagwah grows according to some, accord- 
ing to others imports from the northern countries, 
along the western margin of the Nyanza Lake, a small 
wild coffee, locally called inwdrni. Like all wild pro- 



Digitized by Google 



wild cofffj:. 



131 



(tactions, it is stunted and undeveloped, and the bean, 
which, when perfect, is about the size of a corking-pin's 
head, is never drunk in decoction. The berry gathered 
unripe is thrown into hot water to defend it from rot, 
or to prevent its drying too rapidly — an operation 
which converts the husk to a dark chocolate colour — 
the people of this country chew it like tobacco, and, 
during visits, a handful is invariably presented to the 
guest. According to the Arabs, it has, like the kishr 
of Yemen, stimulating properties, affects the head, 
prevents somnolency, renders water sweet to the taste, 
and forms a pleasant refreshing beverage, which the 
palate, however, never confounds with the taste of the 
Mocha-berry. In Karagwah a single khete of beads 
purchases a kubabah (from 1 lb. to 2 lbs.) of this 
coffee; at Kazeh and Msene, where it is sometimes 
brought by caravans, it sells at fancy prices. Another 
well-known production of all these regions is the mt'hi'pi- 
t'lnpf, or Abrus precatorius, whose scarlet seeds are 
converted into ornaments for the head. 

The cattle is a fine variety, with small humps and large 
horns, like that of Ujiji and Uviva. The herds are 
reckoned by Gundu, or stallions, in the proportion of 
1 to 100 cows. The late Sultan Ndagara is said to 
have owned 200 Gundu, or 20,000 cows, which late civil 
wars have reduced to 12,000 or 13,000. In Karagwah 
cattle forms wealth, and everywhere in Africa wealth, 
and wealth only, secures defenders and dependants. 
The surplus males are killed for beef ; this meat, with 
milk in its various preparations, and a little of the fine 
white hill-honey, forms the food of the higher classes. 

The people of Karagwah, who arc not, according to 
South African fashion, called Wakaragwah, are divided 
into two orders — Wahuma and Wanyambo — who seem 

w 3 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to bear to each other the relation of patron and client, 
patrician and plebeian. The Wahuma comprises the 
rich, who sometimes possess 1000 head of cattle, and the 
warriors, a militia paid in the milk of cows allotted to 
their temporary use by the king. The Wanyambo — 
Fellahs or Ryots — are, it is said, treated by the nobles 
as slaves. The men of Karagwah are a tall stout race, 
doubtless from the effect of pure mountain-air and 
animal food. Corpulence is a beauty : girls are fattened 
to a vast bulk by drenches of curds and cream thickened 
with flour, and are duly disciplined when they refuse. 
The Arabs describe them as frequently growing to a 
monstrous size, like some specimens of female Boers 
mentioned by early travellers in Southern Africa. 
Fresh milk is the male, sour the female beverage. The 
complexion is a brown yellow, like that of the Warundi. 
The dress of the people, and even of the chiefs, is an 
apron of close-grained mbugu, or bark-cloth, softened 
with oil, and crimped with tine longitudinal lines made 
with a batten or pounding club. In shape it resembles 
the flap of an English saddle, tied by a prolongation of 
the upper corners round the waist. To this scarcely 
decent article the chiefs add a languti, or Indian- 
T-bandage of goat's skin. Nudity is not uncommon, and 
nubile girls assume the veriest apology for clothing, 
which is exchanged after marriage for short kilts and 
breast coverings of skin. Both sexes wear tiara-shaped 
and cravat-formed ornaments of the crimson abrus-seed, 
pierced and strung upon mondo, the fine fibre of the 
mwale or raphia-palm. The weapons are bows and 
arrows, spears, knobsticks, and knives ; the ornaments 
are beads and coil-bracelets, which, with cattle, form 
the marriage settlement. The huts are of the coni- 
cal and circular African shape, with walls of stakes 



Digitized by Go 



KING ARMANIKA 



183 



and roofs so carefully thatched that no rain can pene- 
trate them: the villages, as in Usagara, are scattered 
upon the crests and ridges of the hills. 

The Mk&md, or Sultan of Karagwah, in 1858, was 
Annanika, son of Ndagara, who, although the dignity 
is in these lands hereditary, was opposed by his younger 
brother Rumanika. The rebel, after an obstinate 
attack, was routed by Suna, the late despot af Uganda, 
who, bribed by the large present of ivory, which was 
advanced by Musa Mzuri of Kazeh, then trading with 
Annanika, threw a large force into the field. Rumanika 
was blinded and pensioned, and about four years ago 
peace was restored. Annanika resides in the central 
district, Weranhanja, and his settlement, inhabited only 
by the royal family, contains from forty to fifty huts. 
He is described as a man about thirty to thirty-five 
years old, tall, sturdy, and sinewy-limbed, resembling 
the Somal. His dress is, by preference, the mbugu, or 
bark-cloth, but he has a large store of fine raiment 
presented by his Arab visitors : in ornaments he is dis- 
tinguished by tight gaiters of beads extending from 
knee to ankle. His diet is meat and milk, with some- 
times a little honey, plantains, and grain: unlike his 
subjects, he eschews mawa and pombe. He has about 
a dozen wives, an unusually moderate allowance for an 
African chief, and they have borne him ten or eleven 
children. The royal family is said to be a race of 
centagenarians ; they are buried in their garments, 
sitting and holding their weapons : when the king dies 
there is a funeral feast. 

Under the Mkama is a single minister, who takes the 
title of Muhinda, and presides over the "Wakungu, 
elders and headmen, whose duty it is to collect and to 
transmit to the monarch once every month his revenues, 

N 4 



Digitized by Google 



184 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



in the shape of slaves and ivory, cattle and provisions. 
Milk must be forwarded by proprietors of cows and 
herds even from a distance of three days' march. 
Armanika is an absolute ruler, and he governs without 
squeamishness. Adulterers are punished by heavy fines 
in cattle, murderers are speared and beheaded, rebels 
and thieves are blinded by gouging out the eyes with the 
finger-joints of the right-hand, and severing the muscles. 
Subjects are forbidden to sell milk to those who eat 
beans or salt, for fear of bewitching the animals. The 
Mkama, who lives without state or splendour, receives 
travellers with courtesy. Hearing of their approach, he 
orders his slaves to erect four or five tents for shelter, 
and he greets them with a large present of provisions. 
He demands no blackmail, but the offerer is valued 
according to his offerings : the return gifts are carefully 
proportioned, and for beads which suit his taste he has 
sent back an acknowledgment of fifty slaves and forty 
cows. The price of adult male slaves varies from eight 
to ten fundo of white, green, or blue porcelain-beads : a 
woman in her prime costs two kitindi (each equal to one 
dollar on the coast), and five or six fundo of mixed 
beasts. Some of these girls, being light-coloured and 
well favoured, sell for sixty dollars at Zanzibar. The 
merchants agree in stating that a European would re- 
ceive in Karagwah the kindest welcome, but that to 
support the dignity of the white face a considerable 
sum would be required. Arabs still visit Armanika to 
purchase slaves, cattle, and ivory, the whitest and 
softest, the largest and heaviest in this part of Central 
Africa. The land is rich in iron, and the spears of 
Karagwah, which are, to some extent, tempered, are 
preferred to the rude work of the Wafyoma. Sulphur 
is found, according to the Arabs, near hot springs 



Digitized by Google 



TIIK WATOSI. 



185 



amongst the mountains. A species of manatus (?) 
supplies a fine skin used for clothing. The simbi, or 
cowrie (Cypraea), is the minor currency of the country: 
it is brought from the coast by return caravans of 
Wanyamwezi. 

The country of Karagwah is at present the head- 
quarters of the Watosi, a pastoral people who are scat- 
tered throughout these Lake Regions. They came, 
according to tradition, from Usingo, a mountain district 
lying to the north of Uhha. They refuse to carry loads, 
to cultivate the ground, or to sell one another. Harm- 
less, and therefore unarmed, they are often plundered, 
though rarely slain, by other tribes, and they protect 
themselves by paying fees in cattle to the chiefs. When 
the Wahinda are sultans, the Watosi appear as coun- 
cillors and elders ; but whether this rank is derived from 
a foreign and superior origin, or is merely the price of 
their presents, cannot be determined. In appearance 
they are a tall, comely, and comparatively fair people ; 
hence in some parts every " distinguished foreigner " is 
complimented by being addressed as " Mtosi." They 
are said to derive themselves from a single ancestor, and 
to consider the surrounding tribes as serviles, from 
whom they will take concubines, but to whom they 
refuse their daughters. Some lodges of this people 
were seen about Unyanycmbe and Msene, where they 
live by selling cattle, milk, and butter. Their villages 
are poor, dirty, and unpalisaded ; mere scatters of rag- 
ged round huts. They have some curious practices: 
never eat out of their own houses, and, after returning 
from abroad, test, by a peculiar process, the fidelity of 
their wives before anointing themselves and entering 
. their houses. The Arabs declare that they are known 
by their black gums,which they consider a beauty. 



uigmze 



186 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

The last feature of importance in Karagwah is the 
Kitangure River on its northern frontier. This stream, 
deriving its name from a large settlement on its banks, 
according to some travellers flows through a rocky 
trough, according to others it traverses a plain. Some, 
again, make it thirty yards, others 600, and even half a 
mile, in breadth. All these statements are reconcileable. 
The river issues from Higher Urundi, not far from the 
Malagarazi ; but whilst the latter, engaged in the De- 
pression of Central Africa, is drawn towards the 
Tanganyika, the former, falling into the counterslope, is 
directed to the north-east into the Nyanza Lake. Its 
course would thus lie through a mountain-valley, from 
which it issues into a lacustrine plain, the lowlands of 
Unyoro and Uganda. The dark and swift stream 
must be crossed in canoes even during the dry season, 
but, like the Malagarazi, about June or at the end of 
the rains, it debords over the swampy lands of its 
lower course. 

From the Kitangure River fifteen stations conduct 
the traveller to Kibuga, the capital district of Uganda, 
and the residence of its powerful despot. The maxi- 
mum of these marches would be six daily, or a total of 
ninety rectilinear geographical miles. Though there 
are no hills, the rivers and rivulets — said to be upwards 
of a hundred in number — offer serious obstacles to 
rapid travelling. Assuming then, the point where 
the Kitangure River is crossed to be in S. lat. 1° 
H', Kibuga may be placed in S. lat. 0° 10'. Beyond 
Weranhanja no traveller with claims to credibility has 
seen the Nyanza water. North of Kibuga all is uncer- 
tain ; the Arabs were not permitted by Suna, the last 
despot, to penetrate farther north. 

The two first marches from the Kitangure River 



Digitized by Google 



UNYORO. 



187 



traverse the territory of " dependent Unyoro," so called 
because it has lately become subject to the Sultan of 
Uganda. In former times Unyoro in crescent-shape, 
with the cusps fronting eastwards and westwards, almost 
encompassed Uganda. From dependent Unyoro the 
path, crossing a tract of low jungle, enters Uganda in 
the concave of the crescent. The tributary Wahayya, 
under Gaetawa, their sultan, still extend to the eastward. 
North of the Wahayya, of whose territory little is 
known, lies "Kittara," in Kinyoro (or Kiganda?), a word 
interpreted to mean " mart," or " meeting-place." This 
is the region which supplies Karagwah with coffee. 
The shrub is propagated by sowing the bean. It attains 
the height of five feet, branching out about half-way ; it 
gives fruit after the third, and is in full vigour after the 
fifth year. Before almost every hut-door there is a 
plantation, forming an effective feature in the landscape 
of rolling and wavy hill, intersected by a network of 
rivers and streams : the foliage is compared to a green 
tapestry veiling the ground ; and at times, when the 
leaves are stripped off by wind and rain, the plant 
appears decked with brilliant crimson cherry-like 
berries. The Katonga River, crossed at Kitutu, is sup- 
posed to fall into the Nyanza, the general recipient of 
the network of streams about Karagwah. This diago- 
nally may result from the compound incline produced 
by the northern counterslope of the mountains of 
Karagwah and the south-westward depression necessary 
to form and to supply the lake. The Katonga is a 
sluggish and almost stagnant body of considerable 
breadth, and when swollen it arrests the progress of 
caravans. Some portions of the river are crossed, 
according to the Arabs, over a thick growth of aquatic 
vegetation, which forms a kind of matwork, capable of 



Digitized by Google 



188 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



supporting a man's weight, and cattle are towed over 
in the more open parts by cords attached to their horns. 
Four stations lead from the Katonga River to Kibuga, 
the capital district of Uganda. 

Kibuga is the residence of the great Mkama or chief 
of Uganda. Concerning its population and peculiarities 
the Arabs must be allowed to tell their own tale. 
" Kibuga, the settlement, is not less than a day's journey 
in length ; the buildings are of cane and rattan. The 
sultan's palace is at least a mile long, and the circular 
huts, neatly ranged in line, are surrounded by a strong 
fence which has only four gates. Bells at the several 
entrances announce the approach of strangers, and 
guards in hundreds attend there at all hours. They 
are commanded by four chiefs, who are relieved every 
second day : these men pass the night under hides raised 
upon uprights, and their heads are forfeited if they 
neglect to attend to the summons of the king. The 
harem contains about 3000 souls — concubines, slaves, 
and children. No male nor adult animal may penetrate, 
under pain of death, beyond the Barzah, a large vesti- 
bule or hall of audience where the king dispenses justice 
and receives his customs. This palace has often been 
burned down by lightning : on these occasions the war- 
riors must assemble and extinguish the fire by rolling 
over it. The chief of Uganda has but two wants with 
which he troubles his visitors — one, a medicine against 
death; the other, a charm to avert the thunderbolt : 
and immense wealth would reward the man who could 
supply either of these desiderata." 

Suna, the great despot of Uganda, a warlike chief, 
who wrested dependent Unyoro from its former pos- 
sesssor, reigned till 1857. He perished in the prime of 
life and suddenly, as the Arabs say, like Namrud, 



Digitized by Google 



KIXG SUXA. 



1*0 



whilst riding "pickaback" — the state carriage of 
Central Africa — upon a minister's shoulders, he was 
struck by the shaft of the destroyer in the midst of 
his mighty host. As is the custom of barbarous and 
despotic races, the event was concealed for some months. 
When the usual time had expired, one of his many 
sons, exchanging his heir-elective name " Samunju" for 
Mtesa, became king. The court usage compels the 
newly elected chief to pass two years in retirement, 
committing state affairs to his ministers ; little, therefore, 
is yet known of him. As he will certainly tread in the 
footsteps of his sire, the Arabs may again be allowed to 
describe the state and grandeur of the defunct Sunn ; 
and as Suna was in fact the whole kingdom of Uganda, 
the description will elucidate the condition of the people 
in general. 

" The army of Uganda numbers at least 300,000 men ; 
each brings an egg to muster, and thus something like 
a reckoning of the people is made. Each soldier carries 
one spear, two assegais, a long dagger, and a shield, 
bows and swords being unknown. When marching the 
host is accompanied by women and children carrying 
spare weapons, provisions, and water. In battle they 
fight to the sound of drums, which are beaten with 
sticks like those of the Franks: should this performance 
cease, all fly the field. Wars with the Wanyoro, the 
Wasoga, and other neighbours are rendered almost 
chronic by the policy as well as the pleasure of the 
monarch, and there are few days on which a foraging 
party does not march from or return to the capital. 
When the king has no foreign enemies, or when the 
exchequer is indecently deficient, he feigns a rebellion, 
attacks one of his own provinces, massacres the chief 
men, and sells off the peasantry. Executions arc 



Digitized by Google 



100 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

frequent, a score being often slain at a time : when 
remonstrated with concerning this barbarity, Suna 
declared that he had no other secret for keeping his 
subjects in awe of him, and for preventing conspiracies. 
. Sometimes the king would accompany his army to a 
battue of game, when the warriors were expected to 
distinguish themselves by attacking the most ferocious 
beasts without weapons: even the elephant, borne 
down by numbers, yielded to the grasp of man. When 
passing a village he used to raise a shout, which was 
responded to by a loud flourish of horns, reed-pipes, 
iron whistles, and similar instruments. At times he 
decreed a grand muster of his soldiery: he presented 
himself sitting before his gate, with a spear in the right 
hand, and holding in the left the leash of a large and 
favourite dog resembling an Arab suluki or greyhound. 
The master of the hounds was an important personage. 
Suna took great pleasure in witnessing trials of strength, 
the combatants contending with a mixture of slapping 
and pushing till one fell to the ground. He had a 
large menagerie of lions, elephants, leopards, and similar 
beasts of disport, to whom he would sometimes give a 
criminal as a 'curie:' he also kept for amusement 
fifteen or sixteen albinos; and so greedy was he of 
novelty that even a cock of peculiar or uniform colour 
would have been forwarded by its owner to feed his 
eyes." 

Suna when last visited by the Arabs was a " red 
man," aged about forty-five, tall, robust, and powerful 
of limb, with a right kingly presence and a warrior 
carriage. His head was so shaven as to leave what the 
Omani calls " el Kishshah," a narrow crest of hair like 
a cock's comb, from nape to brow ; nodding and falling 
over his face under its weight of strung beads, it gave 



Digitized by Google 



SUXA'S unaffected impiety. 



191 



him a fierce and formidable aspect. This tonsure, 
confined to those about the palace, distinguishes its 
officers and inmates, servile as well • as free, from the 
people. The Ryots leave patches of hair where they 
please, but they may not shave the whole scalp under 
pain of death, till a royal edict unexpectedly issued at 
times commands every head to shed its honours. Suna 
never appeared in public without a spear; his dress 
was the national costume, a long piece of the fine 
crimped mbugu or bark-cloth manufactured in these 
regions, extending from the neck to the ground. He 
made over to his women the rich clothes presented by 
the Arabs, and allowed them to sew with unravelled 
cotton thread, whereas the people under severe penalties 
were compelled to use plantain fibre. No commoner 
could wear domestics or similar luxuries ; and in the 
presence, the accidental exposure of a limb led, accord- 
ing to the merchants, to the normal penalty — death. 

Suna, like the northern despots generally, had a 
variety of names, all expressing something bitter, 
mighty, or terrible, as, for instance, Lbare, the Al- 
mighty (?) ; Mbidde and Purgoma, a lion. He could 
not understand how the Sultan of Zanzibar allowed 
his subjects treasonably to assume the name of their 
ruler ; and besides mortifying the Arabs by assuming 
an infinite superiority over their prince, he shocked 
them by his natural and unaffected impiety. He 
boasted to them that he was the god of earth, as their 
Allah was the Lord of Heaven. He murmured loudly 
against the abuse of lightning; and he claimed from 
his subjects divine honours, which were as readily 
yielded to him as by the facile Romans to their emperors. 
No Mganda would allow the omnipotence of his sultan 
to be questioned, and a light word concerning him 



Digitized by Google 



192 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

would have imperilled a stranger's life. Suna's domestic 
policy reminds the English reader of the African pecu- 
liarities which form the groundwork of " Ra9selas." 
His sons, numbering more than one hundred, were 
removed from the palace in early youth to separate 
dungeons, and so secured with iron collars and fetters 
fastened to both ends of a long wooden bar that the 
wretches could never sit, and without aid could neither 
rise nor lie. The heir-elective was dragged from his 
chains to fill a throne, and the cadets will linger 
through their dreadful lives, unless wanted as sovereigns, 
until death release them. Suna kept his female children 
under the most rigid surveillance within the palace : he 
had, however, a favourite daughter named Nasuru, 
whose society was so necessary to him that he allowed 
her to appear with him in public. 

The principal officers under the despot of Uganda 
arc, first, the Kimara Vyona (literally the " finisher of 
all things") : to him, the chief civilian of the land, the 
city is committed ; he also directs the kabaka or village 
headmen. The second is the Sakibobo or commander- 
in-chief, who has power over the Sawaganzi, the life- 
guards and slaves, the warriors and builders of the 
palace. Justice is administered in the capital by the 
sultan, who, though severe, is never accused of per- 
verting the law, which here would signify the ancient 
custom of the country. A Mhozi — Arabised to Hoz, 
and compared with the Kazi of el Islam — dispenses in 
each town criminal and civil rights. The only punish- 
ments appear to be death and mulcts. Capital offenders 
arc beheaded or burned ; in some cases they are flayed 
alive ; the operation commences with the face, and the 
skin, which is always much torn by the knife, is stuffed 
as in the old torturing days of Asia. When a criminal 



Digitized by Google 



TIIE " HAIRY ONE.' 



193 



absconds, the males of his village are indiscriminately 
slain and the women are sold — blood and tears must 
flow for discipline. In money suits each party begins 
by placing before the Mhozi a sum equivalent to the 
disputed claim ; the object is to prevent an extensive 
litigiousness. Suna used to fine by fives or tens, dozens 
or scores, according to the offender's means ; thus from 
a wealthy man he would take twenty male and twenty 
female slaves, with a similar number of bulls and 
cows, goats and kids, hens and even eggs. One of his 
favourites, who used constantly to sit by him on guard, 
matchlock in hand, was Isa bin Hosayn, a Baloch 
mercenary of H. H. Sayyid Said of Zanzibar. He had 
fled from his debtors, and had gradually wandered to 
Uganda, where the favour of the sovereign procured 
him wealth in ivory, and a harem containing from 200 
to 300 women. " Mzagayya," — the hairy one, as he 
was locally called, from his long locks and bushy beard 
— was not permitted, nor probably did he desire, to 
quit the country; after his patron's death he fled to 
independent Unyoro, having probably raised up, as 
these adventurers will, a host of enemies at Uganda. 

Suna greatly encouraged, by gifts and attention, the 
Arab merchants to trade in his capital ; the distance has 
hitherto prevented more than half-a-dozen caravans 
travelling to Kibuga ; all however came away loudly 
praising his courtesy and hospitality. To a poor trader 
he has presented twenty slaves, and an equal number of 
cows, without expecting any but the humblest return. 
The following account of a visit paid to him in 1852, by 
Snay bin Amir, may complete his account of the despot 
Uganda. When the report of arrival was forwarded by 
word of mouth to Suna, he issued orders for the erection 

VOL. II. o 



Digitized by Google 



194 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

of as many tents as might be necessary. The guest, 
who was welcomed with joyful tumult by a crowd of 
gazers, and was conducted to the newly-built quarters, 
where he received a present of bullocks and grain, 
plantains and sugar-canes. After three or four days for 
repose, he was summoned to the Barzah or audience hall, 
ontside of which he found a squatting body of about 
2000 guards armed only with staves. Allowed to retain 
his weapons, he entered with an interpreter and saluted 
the chief, who, without rising, motioned his guest to sit 
down in front of him. Suna's only cushion was a 
mbugu ; his dress was of the same stuff ; two spears lay 
close at hand, and his dog was as usual by his side. The 
Arab thought proper to assume the posture of homage, 
namely, to sit upon his shins, bending his back, and, 
with eyes fixed on the ground — he had been cautioned 
against staring at the " god of earth," — to rest his hands 
upon his lap. The levee was full; at a distance of fifty 
paces between the king and the guards sat the ministers; 
and inside the palace, so placed that they could see 
nothing but the visitor's back, were the principal women, 
who are forbidden to gaze at or to be gazed at by a 
stranger. The room was lit with torches of a gummy 
wood, for Suna, who eschewed pombe, took great plea- 
sure in these audiences, which were often prolonged 
from sunset to midnight. 

The conversation began with a string of questions 
concerning Zanzibar, the route, the news, and the other 
staple topics of barbarous confabulation; when it flagged, 
a minister was called up to enliven it. No justice was ad- 
ministered nor present offered during the first audience; 
it concluded with the despot rising, at which signal all 
dispersed. At the second visit Snay presented his 
blackmail, which consisted of ten cotton cloths, and 



CHANCES OP EXPLORATION. 



11)3 



one hundred fundo of coral, and other porcelain beads. 
The return was an offering of two ivories and a pair of 
serviles ; every day, moreover, flesh and grain, fruit and 
milk were supplied without charge ; whenever the wish 
was expressed, a string of slave-girls presently appeared 
bending under loads of the article in question ; and it 
was intimated to the " king's stranger " that he might 
lay hands upon whatever he pleased, animate or inani- 
mate. Snay, however, was too wise to avail himself of 
this truly African privilege. During the four inter- 
views which followed, Suna proved himself a man of 
intelligence: he inquired about the Wazungu or Eu- 
ropeans, and professed to be anxious for a closer alliance 
with the Sultan of Zanzibar. When Snay took leave he 
received the usual present of provisions for the road, 
and 200 guards prepared to escort him, an honour 
which he respectfully declined : Suna offered to send 
with him several loads of elephants' tusks as presents to 
11. H. the Sayyid ; but the merchant declined to face 
with them the difficulties and dangers of Usui. Like 
all African chiefs, the despot considered these visits as 
personal honours paid to himself ; his pride therefore 
peremptorily forbade strangers to pass northwards of his 
capital, lest the lesser and hostile chiefs might boast a 
similar brave. According to Snay, an European would 
be received with distinction, if travelling with supplies 
to support his dignity. He would depend, however, 
upon his ingenuity and good fortune upon further pro- 
gress ; and perhaps the most feasible plan to explore the 
water-shed north of the Nyanza Lake would be to buy 
or to build, with the permission of the reigning monarch, 
boats upon the nearest western shore. Suna himself, 
had, according to Snay, constructed a flotilla of matumbi 
or undecked vessels similar in shape to the Mtope or 

o 2 



Digitized by Google 



19G THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Muntafiyah — the modern " Ploiaria Rhapta " of the Sa- 
wahili coast from Lamu to Kihva. 

Few details were given by the Arabs concerning the 
vulgar herd of Waganda : they are, as has been re- 
marked, physically a finer race than the Wayamwezi, 
and they are as superior in character ; more docile and 
better disciplined, they love small gifts, and show their 
gratitude by prostrating themselves before the donor. 
The specimens of slaves seen at Kazeh were, however, 
inferior to the mountaineers of Karagwah; the com- 
plexion was darker, and the general appearance more 
African. Their language is, to use an Arab phrase, like 
that of birds, soft and quickly spoken; the specimens 
collected prove without doubt that it belongs to the 
Zangian branch of the great South- African family. 
Their normal dress is the mbugu, under which, however, 
all wear the " languti " or Indian-T-bandage of goatskin ; 
women appear in short kilts and breast- coverings of the 
same material. Both sexes decorate their heads with 
the tiara of abrus-seeds alluded to when describing the 
people of Karagwah. As sumptuary laws impede the 
free traffic of cloth into Uganda, the imports are repre- 
sented chiefly by beads, cowries, and brass and copper 
wires. The wealth of the country is in cattle, ivory, 
and slaves, the latter often selling for ten fundo of beads, 
and the same sum will purchase the Wasoga and Wan- 
yoro captives from whom the despot derives a consider- 
able portion of his revenues. The elephant is rare in 
Uganda ; tusks are collected probably by plunder from 
Usoga, and the alakah of about ninety Arab pounds is 
sold for two slaves, male or female. The tobacco, 
brought to market in leaf, as in Ujiji, and not worked, 
as amongst the other tribes, is peculiarly good. Flesh, 
sweet potatoes, and the highly nutritious plantain, which 
grows in groves a whole day's march long, are the chief 



Digitized by 



NORTH OF THE NYANZA LAKE UXKNWX. 197 

articles of diet ; milk is drunk by women only, and ghee 
is more valued for unction than for cookery. The 
favourite inebrients are mawa and pombe ; the latter is 
served in neatly carved and coloured gourds, and the 
contents are imbibed, like sherry cobbler, through a reed. 

From Kibuga the Arabs have heard that between 
fifteen and twenty marches lead to the Kivira River, a 
larger and swifter stream than the Katonga, which forms 
the northern limit of Uganda, and the southern frontier 
of Unyoro. They are unable to give the names of 
stations. South of Kivira is Usoga, a low alluvial land, 
cut by a multitude of creeks, islets, and lagoons; in 
their thick vegetation the people take refuge from the 
plundering parties of the Waganda, whose chief built, 
as has been told, large boats to dislodge them. The 
Wasoga have no single sultan, and their only market- 
able commodity is ivory. 

On the north, the north-west, and the west of Uganda 
lies, according to the Arabs, the land of Independent 
Unyoro. The slaves from that country vaguely de- 
scribe it as being bounded on the north-west by a tribe 
called Wakede, who have a currency of cowries, and 
wear tiaras of the shell ; and the Arabs have heard 
that on the north-east there is a "people with long 
daggers like the Somal," who may be Gallas (?). But 
whether the Nyanza Lake extends north of the equator 
is a question still to be decided. Those consulted at 
Kazeh ignored even the name of the Nyam-nyam ; nor 
had they heard of the Bahri and Barri, the Shilluks on 
the west, and the Dinkas east of the Nile, made familiar 
to us by the Austrian Mission at Gondokoro, and other 
explorers. 

The Wanyoro are a distinct race, speaking a language 
of the Zangian family: they have suffered from the 

o 3 



Digitized by Google 



19h 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



vicinity of the more warlike Waganda, who have affixed 
to the conquered the opprobrious name of widdu or 
" serviles ; " and they have lost their southern posses- 
sions, which formerly extended between Karagwah and 
Uganda. Their late despot Chawambi, whose death 
occurred about ten years ago, left three sons, one of 
whom it is reported has fallen into the power of 
Uganda, whilst the two others still rule independently. 
The county is rich and fertile, and magnificent tales are 
told concerning the collections of ivory, which in some 
parts are planted in the ground to pen cattle. Slaves 
are cheap ; they find their way to the southern markets 
vid Uganda and Karagwah. Those seen at Kazeh and 
Kirira, where the Arab traders had a large gang, ap- 
peared somewhat inferior to the other races of the 
northern kingdoms, with a dull dead black colour, 
flattish heads, brows somewhat retreating, prominent 
eyes, and projecting lower jaws. They were tattooed 
in large burnt blotches encircling the forehead, and in 
some cases the inferior excisors had been extracted. 
The price of cattle in Unyoro varies from 500 to 
1000 cowries. In this country ten simbi (Cyproca) 
represent one khete of beads ; they are the most es- 
teemed currency, and are also used as ornaments for 
the neck, arms, and legs, and decorations for stools and 
drums. 

During my companions* absence much of my spare 
time was devoted to collecting specimens of the multi- 
tudinous dialects into which the great South African 
family here divides itself. After some months of de- 
sultory work I had learned the Kisawahili or coast 
language, the lingua Franca of the South African coast : 
it is the most useful, because the most generally known, 
and because, once mastered, it renders its cognates as 
easy of acquirement as Bengali or Maharatti after Hin- 



Digitized by 



COLLECTION- VOCABLES. 



190 



dostani. The principal obstacle is the want of instruc- 
tors and books — the Kisawahili is not a written 
language ; and the elementary publications put forth in 
Europe gave me the preliminary trouble of composing 
a grammar and a vocabulary. Said Bin Salim, though 
bred and born amongst the Wasawahili, knew but 
little of the tongue, and his peculiarities of dis- 
position rendered the task of instruction as wearisome 
to himself as it was unsatisfactory to me. My best 
tutor was Snay Bin Amir, who had transferred to the 
philology of East Africa his knowledge of Arabic gram- 
mar and syntax. With the aid of the sons of Ramji 
and other tame slaves, I collected about 1500 worils 
in the three principal dialects upon this line of road, 
namely the Kisawahili, the Kizaramo — which includes 
the Kik'hutu — and the Kinyamwezi. At Kazch I 
found a number of wild captives, with whom I 
began the dreary work of collecting specimens. In 
the languages of least consideration I contented myself 
with the numerals, which are the fairest test of inde- 
pendence of derivation, because the most likely to be 
primitive vocables. The work was not a labour of love. 
The savages could not guess the mysterious objects 
of my inquiry into their names for 1 , 2, and 3 ; often 
they started up and ran away, or they sat in dogged 
silence, perhaps thinking themselves derided. The first 
number was rarely elicited without half an hour's 
" talkee-taikee " somewhat in this style: — 

" Listen, 0 my brother! in the tongue of the shores 
(Kisawahili) we say 1, 2, 3, 4, 5" — counting the fingers 
to assist comprehension. 

" Hu ! hu ! " replies the wild man, " we say fingers." 

" By no means, that's not it. This white man wants 
to know how thou speakest 1,2,3?" 

o 4 



Digitized by Google 



200 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

" One, two, three what ? sheep, or goats, or women ? " 
— expressing the numerals in Kisawahili. 

" By no means, only 1, 2, 3 sheep in thine own tongue, 
the tongue of the Wapoka." 

"Hi! Hi! what wants the white man with the 
Wapoka ? " 

And so on till patience was almost impossible. But, 
like the Irish shay-horse of days gone by, their tongues 
once started often hobbled on without halting. The 
tame slaves were more tractable, yet even in their case 
ten minutes sufficed to weary out the most intellectual ; 
when the listless and incoherent reply, the glazed eye 
gazing at vacancy, and the irresistible tendency to gape 
and yawn, to nod and snooze, evidenced a feeble brain 
soon overworked. Said Bin Salim would sit staring at 
me with astonishment, and ejaculate, like Abba Grego- 
rius, the preceptor of Ludolph, the grammarian philolo- 
gist and historian of ^Ethiopia, " Verily in the coast- 
tongue words never take root, nor do they bear 
branches." 

The rest of my time was devoted to preparations for 
journeying. The Fundi's tent, which had accompanied 
us to Uvira, was provided with an outer cover. The 
Sepoys "pal," brought from Zanzibar, having been 
destroyed by the ill-treatment of the villain Kannena, 
I made up, with the aid of a blackguard Baghdadi, 
named 'Brahim, a large tent of American domestics, 
which having, however, but one cloth, and that of the 
thinnest, proved a fiery purgatory on the down-march 
eastwards. The canvas lug-sail was provided with an 
extra double cloth, sewn round the top to increase its 
dimensions : it thus became a pent-shaped affair, twelve 
feet long, eight broad, and six feet high — seven would 
have been better, — buttoned at the foot, which was semi- 
circular, and in front provided with blue cotton cur- 



Digitized by 



TEXTMAKIXG AXD TAILORING. 



201 



tains, most useful against glare and stare. Its lightness, 
combined with impenetrability, made it the model of a 
tent for rapid marching. It was not, however, pegged 
down close to the ground, as some explorers advise, 
without the intervention of ropes ; in these lands, a tent 
so pitched would rot in a week. The three tents were 
fitted with solid male bamboos, and were provided 
with skin-bags for their pegs, which, unless carefully 
looked after, disappear almost daily. The only furni- 
ture was a kitanda or cartel : some contrivance of the 
kind, a " Biddulph," or an iron bed-frame, without 
joints, nuts, or screws, which are sure to break or to be 
lost, is absolutely necessary in these lands, where from 
Kaole to Uvira every man instinctively attempts to sit 
and to sleep upon something that raises him above the 
ground. Moreover, I have ever found the cartel answer 
the threefold purpose of bed, chair, and table : besides 
saving weight by diminishing the quantity of bedding 
required. 

To the task of tent-making succeeded tailoring. We 
had neglected to provide ourselves with the loose 
blanket suits, served out to sailors on board men-of-war 
in the tropics : they are most useful in passing through 
countries where changes of climate are sudden and 
marked. Besides these, the traveller should carry with 
him an ample store of flannels : the material must be 
shrunk before making up shirts, otherwise it will behave 
as did the Little Boy's mantle when tried by the frail fair 
Guinever. A red colour should moreover be avoided, 
the dye soon turns dark, and the appearance excites too 
much attention. Besides shirt and trousers, the only 
necessary is a large " stomach-warmer " waistcoat, with 
sleeves and back of similar material, without collar — 
which renders sleeping in it uneasy — and provided with 
four flapped pockets, to contain a compass and thermo- 



Digitized by Google 



202 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

? 

meter, a note-book, and a sketch-book, a watch and a 
moderate-sized knife of many uses. The latter should 
contain scissors, tweezers, tooth-pick, and ear-pick, 
needle, file, picker, steel for fire, turnscrew, watch-spring- 
saw, clasp blade, and pen blade : it should be made of 
moderate dimensions, and for safety be slung by a 
lanyard to the button-hole. For the cold mornings and 
the noon-day heats, I made up a large padded hood, 
bound round the head like the Arab Kufiyah. Too 
much cannot be said in favour of this article, which in 
eastward -travel defends the eyes from the fiery glare, 
protects, when wending westwards, the carotids against 
the solar blaze, and, at all times, checks the intrusive 
staring of the crowd. I reformed my umbrella, ever 
an invaluable friend in these latitudes, by removing the 
rings and wires from the worm-eaten stick, and by 
mounting them on a spear, thus combining with shelter 
a staff and a weapon. The traveller should have at 
least three umbrellas, one large and water proof — white, 
not black — in the shape of those used by artists ; and 
two others of moderate size, and of the best construc- 
tion, which should be covered with light-coloured calico, 
as an additional defence against the sun. At Kazeh 
I was somewhat deficient in material : my lazy " Jack of 
all trades," Valentine, made, however, some slippers of 
green baize, soled with leather, for me, overalls of Ame- 
rican domestics for my companion, and various articles 
of indigo-dyed cotton for himself and his fellow-servant, 
who presently appeared tastefully rigged out like Paul 
and Virginia in " Bengal blue." 

The minor works were not many. The two remain- 
ing pormanteaus of the three that had left the Coast 
were cobbled with goatskins, and were bound with stout 
thongs. The hammocks, of which half had disappeared, 
were patched and provided with the Nara, or Indian 



Digitized by Google 



MINOR PREPARATIONS. 203 



cotton-tape, which in these climates is better than 
either reims or cord. To save my eyes the spectacle of 
moribund fowls, suspended to a porter's pole, two light 
cages were made after the fashion of the country, with 
bent and bound withes. The metal plates, pots, and 
pans were furbished, and a damaged kettle was mended 
by a travelling tinker: the asses' saddles and halters 
were repaired, and, greatest luxury of all, a brace of 
jembe or iron hoes was converted into two pairs of solid 
stirrups, under the vigilant eye of Snay bin Amir. A 
party of slaves sent to Msene brought back fifty-four 
jembe, useful as return-presents and blackmail on the 
down-march: they paid, however, one cloth for two, 
instead of four. Sallum bin Hamid, the " papa " of the 
Arabs, sold for the sum of forty dollars a fine half-bred 
Zanzibar she-ass and foal — there is no surer method of 
procuring a regular supply of milk on Eastern journeys. 
My black and white beads being almost useless, he also 
parted with, as a peculiar favour, seventeen or eighteen 
pounds of pink-porcelains for forty dollars, and with a 
Frasibah of coffee, and a similar quantity of sugar for 
eighty dollars, equal to sixteen pounds sterling. On 
the 14th July the last Arab caravan of the season left 
Unyanyembe, under the command of Sayf bin Said el 
Wardi. As he obligingly offered to convey letters and 
any small articles which I wished to precede me, and 
knowing that under his charge effects were far safer 
than with our own people, I forwarded the useless and 
damaged surveying instruments, certain manuscripts, 
and various enclosures of maps, field and sketch- 
books, together with reports to the Royal Geographical 
Society. 

This excitement over I began to weary of Kazeh. 
Snay bin Amir and most, of the Arabs had set out on an 
expedition to revenge the murder of old Silim — an 



Digitized by Google 



204 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

event alluded to in a former page, and the place had 
become dull as a mess dinner. Said bin Salim, who 
was ill, who coughed and expectorated, and sincerely 
pitied himself because he had a cold, became more 
than usually unsociable: he could enjoy nothing but 
the society of Brahim, the bawling Baghdadi, and the 
crowd of ill-flavoured slavery that flocked into the ves- 
tibule. My Goanese servant, who connected my aspect 
with hard labour, avoided it like a pestilence. Already I 
was preparing to organise a little expedition to K'hokoro 
and the southern provinces, when unexpectedly, — in 
these lands a few cries and gun-shots are the only 
credible precursors of a caravan, — on the morning of 
the 25th August reappeared my companion. 

At length my companion had been successful, his 
44 flying trip " had led him to the northern water, and 
he had found its dimensions surpassing our most san- 
guine expectations. We had scarcely, however, break- 
fasted, before he announced to me the startling fact, 
that he had discovered the sources of the White Nile. 
It was an inspiration perhaps : the moment he sighted 
the Nyanza, he felt at once no doubt but that the " Lake 
at his feet gave birth to that interesting river which 
has been the subject of so much speculation, and the 
object of so many explorers." The fortunate dis- 
coverer's conviction was strong ; his reasons were weak 
— were of the category alluded to by the damsel 
Lucetta, when justifying her penchant in favour of the 
«* lovely gentleman," Sir Proteus 

" I have no other but a woman's reason. 
I think him so because I think him so f * 



• The following extract from the Proceedings of the R. Geographical 
Society, May 9, 1859, will best illustrate what I mean 

Ma. Macquken, r.R.Q.s., said the question of the sources of the Nile had 
cost him much trouble and research, and he was sure there was no material 



Digitized by Google 



PRETENDED DISCOVERY OF THE NILE. 



205 



and probably his sources of the Nile grew in his mind 
as his Mountains of the Moon had grown under his hand. 

error either in longitude or latitude in the position he had ascribed to 
them, namely, a little to the eastward of the meridian of 35°, and a little 
northward of the equator. That was the principal source of the White Nile. 
The mountains there were exceedingly high, from the equator north to Kalla 
En area. All the authorities, from east, west, north, or south, now perfectly 
competent to form judgments upon such a matter, agreed with him ; and 
among them were the officers commanding the Egyptian commission. It was 
impossible they could all be mistaken. Dr. Krapf had been within a very 
short distance of it; he was more than 180 miles fromMombas, and he saw snow 
upon the mountains. He conversed with the people who came from them, 
and who told him of the snow and exceeding coldness of the temperature. 
The line of perpetual congelation, it was well known, was 17,000 feet above 
the sea. lie had an account of the navigation of the White Nile by the 
Egyptian expedition. It was then given as 3° 30' N. lat. and 31° E. long. 
At this point the expedition turned back for want of a sufficient depth of 
water. Here the river was 1370 feet broad, and the velocity of the current 
one-quarter of a mile per hour. The journals also gave a specific and daily 
current, the depth and width of the river, and every thing, indeed, connected 
with it. Surely, looking at the current of the river, the height of the Cartoorn 
above the level of the sea, and the distance thence up to the equator, the 
sources of the Nile must be 6000 or 8000 feet above the level of the sea, and 
still much below the line of the snow, which was 6000 or 8000 feet farther 
above them. He deeply regretted he was unable to complete the diagram 
for the rest of the papers he had given to the Society, for it was more im- 
portant than any others he had previously given. It contained the journey 
over Africa from sea to sea, second only to that of Dr. Livingstone. . But 
all the rivers coming down from the mountains in question, and running 
south-eastward, had been clearly stated by Dr. Krapf, who gave every par- 
ticular concerning them. He should like to know what the natives had suid 
was to the northward of the large lake ? Did they say the rivers ran out 
from or into the lake ? How could the Egyptian officers be mistaken ? 

Captain Speke replied. They were not mistaken ; and if they had pur- 
sued their journey 50 miles farther, they would undoubtedly have found 
themselves at the northern borders of this lake. 

Mb. Macquben said that other travellers, Don Angelo fur instance, had 
been within one and a half degree of the Equator, and saw the mountain of 
Kimborat under the Line, and persisted in the statement, adding, that tra- 
vellers had been up the river until they found it a mere brook. He felt 
convinced that the large lake alluded to by Captain Speke was not the 
source of the Nile : it was impossible it could be so, for it was not at a suf- 
ficiently high altitude. 

The paper presented to the Society, when fully read in conjunction with 
the mop, will clearly buow that the Bahr-el-Abied has no connection with 



Digitized by Google 



206 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The main argument in favour of the Lake repre- 
senting the great reservoir of the White River was, 
that the "principal men" at the southern extremity 
ignored the extent northward. "On my inquiring 
about the lake's length the man (the greatest traveller 
in the place) faced to the north, and began nodding his 
head to it; at the same time he kept throwing forward 
his right hand, and making repeated snaps of his fingers 
endeavoured to indicate something immeasurable ; and 
added, that nobody knew, but he thought it probably 
extended to the end of the world." Strongly impressed 
by this valuable statistical information, my companion 
therefore placed the northern limit about 4°-5° north lat, 
whereas the Egyptian expedition sent by the late Moham- 
med Ali Pacha, about twenty years ago, to explore the 
Coy Sources, reached 3° 22' north lat. It therefore ought 
to have sailed fifty miles upon the Nyanza lake. On the 
contrary, from information derived on the spot, that expe- 
dition placed the fountains at one month's journey — 300 
to 350 miles — to the soutb-east, or upon the northern 
counterslope of Mount Kenia. Whilst marching to the 
coast, my companion — he tells us — was assured by a 
" respectable Sowahili merchant, that when engaged in 
traffic some years previously to the northward of the 
line, and the westward of this lake, he had heard it 
commonly reported that large vessels frequented the 
northern extremity of these waters, in which the officers 

Kilimanjaro, that it has no connection whatever with any lake or river to 
the south of the Equator, and that the swelling of the river Nile proceeds 
from the tropical rains of the northern torrid zone, as was stated empha- 
tically to Julius Osar by the chief Egyptian priest Araoreis 2000 years ago. 

In nearly 3° N. lat. there is a great cataract, which boats cannot pass. 
It is called Ghcrba. About half-way (50 miles) above, and between this 
cataract and Robego, the capital of Kucnda, the river becomes so narrow as 
to be crossed by abridge formed by a tree thrown across it. Above Gherba 
no stream joins the river eithor from the south or south-wesf. 



Digitized by 



LINGUISTIC BLUNDERS. 



207 



engaged in navigating them used sextants and kept a 
log, precisely similar to what is found in vessels on the 
ocean. Query, could this be in allusion to the expe- 
dition sent by Mohammed Ali up the Nile in former 
years?" (Proceedings of Royal Geographical Society, 
May 9, 1859.) Clearly, if Abdullah Bin Nasib, the 
Msawahili alluded to, had reported these words, he 
merely erred; the Egyptian expedition, as has been 
shown, not only did not find, they never even heard of 
a lake. But not being present at the conversation I am 
tempted to assign further explanation. My companion, 
wholly ignorant of Arabic, was reduced to depend 
upon "Bombay," who spoke an even more debased 
dialect than his master, and it is easy to see how the 
blunder originated. The Arabic bahr and the Kisa- 
wahili bahari are equally applicable in vulgar par- 
lance to a river or sea, a lake or a river. Traditions 
concerning a Western Sea — the to them now unknown 
Atlantic — over which the white men voyage, are familiar 
to many East Africans; I have heard at Harar pre- 
cisely the same report concerning the log and sextants. 
Either, then, Abdullah Bin Nasib confounded, or my 
companion's " interrupter " caused him to confound 
the Atlantic and the Lake. In the maps forwarded 
from Kazeh by my companion, the River Kivira was, 
after ample inquiry, made a western influent of the 
Nyanza Lake. In the map appended to the paper in 
Blackwood, before alluded to, it has become an effluent, 
and the only minute concerning so very important a 
modification is, " This river (although I must confess at 
first I did not think so) is the Nile itself!" 

Beyond the assertion, therefore, that no man had 
visited the north, and the appearance of sextants and 
logs upon the waters, there is not a shade of proof pro. 



Digitized by Google 



208 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Far graver considerations lie on the con. side: the reports 
of the Egyptian expedition, and the dates of the several 
inundations which — as will presently appear — alone suf- 
fice to disprove the possibility of the Nyanza causing 
the flood of the Nile. It is doifbtless a satisfactory 
thing to disclose to an admiring public, of " statesmen, 
churchmen, missionaries, merchants, and more particu- 
larly geographers," the " solution of a problem, which 
it has been the first geographical desideratum of many 
thousand years to ascertain, and the ambition of the 
first monarchs in the world to unravel." (Blackwood's 
Magazine, October 1859.) But how many times since 
the days of a certain Claudius Ptolemaaius surnamed 
Pelusiota, have not the Fountains of the White Nile 
been discovered and re-discovered after this fashion ? 

What tended at the time to make me the more 
sceptical was the substantial incorrectness of the geo- 
graphical and other details brought back by my com- 
panion. This was natural enough. Bombay, after 
misunderstanding his master's ill-expressed Hindostani, 
probably mistranslated the words into Kisawahili to some 
travelled African, who in turn passed on the question 
in a wilder dialect to the barbarian or barbarians under 
examination. During such a journey to and fro words 
must be liable to severe accidents. The first thing 
reported to me was the falsehood of the Arabs at 
Kazeh, who had calumniated the good Sultan Muhayya, 
and had praised the bad Sultan Machunda : subsequent 
inquiries proved their rigid correctness. My com- 
panion's principal informant was one Mansur Bin Sa- 
lim, a half-caste Arab, who had been flogged out of 
Kazeh by his compatriots ; he pronounced Muhayya to 
to be a " very excellent and obliging person," and of 
course he was believed. I then heard a detailed account 



Digitized by Google 



GEOGRAPHY OF NYAXZA LAKE. 



209 



of how the caravan of Salim bin Rashid had been 
attacked, beaten, captured, and detained at Ukerewe, by 
its sultan Machunda. The Arabs received the intelli- 
gence with a smile of ridicule, and in a few days Salim 
bin Rashid appeared in person to disprove the report. 
These are but two cases of many. And what know- 
ledge of Asiatic customs can be expected from the 
writer of these lines ? " The Arabs at Unyanyembe 
had advised my donning their habit for the trip in order 
to attract less attention ; a vain precaution, which I 
believe they suggested more to gratify their own 
vanity in seeing an Englishman lower himself to their 
position, than for any benefit that I might receive by 
doing so." (Blackwood, loco cit.) This galamatias of 
the Arabs ! — the haughtiest and the most clannish of 
all Oriental peoples. 

But difference of opinion was allowed to alter com- 
panionship. After a few days it became evident to me 
that not a word could be uttered upon the subject of 
the Lake, the Nile, and his trouvaille generally without 
offence. By a tacit agreement it was, therefore, avoided, 
and I should never have resumed it had my companion 
not stultified the results of the Expedition by putting 
forth a claim which no geographer can admit, and 
which is at the same time so weak and flimsy, that no 
geographer has yet taken the trouble to contradict it. 

I will here offer to the reader a few details con- 
cerning the Lake in question, — they are principally 
borrowed from my companion's diary, carefully cor- 
rected, however, by Snay bin Amir, Salim bin Rashid* 
and other merchants at Kazeh. 

* When my companion returned to Kazeh, he represented Ukerewe and 
Mazita to be islands, and, although in sight of them, he bad heard nothing 
concerning their connection with the coast. This error was corrected by 

VOL. II. P 



Digitized by Google 



210 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

This fresh- water sea is known throughout the African 
tribes as Nyanza, and the similarity of the sound to 
" Nyassa," the indigenous name of the little Maravi or 
Kilwa Lake, may have caused in part the wild con- 
fusion in which speculative geographers have involved 
the Lake Regions of Central Africa. The Arabs, after 
their fashion of deriving comprehensive names from 
local and minor features, call it Ukerewe, in the Kisu- 
kuma dialect meaning the " place of Kerewe" (Kelewe), 
an islet. As has been mentioned, they sometimes 
attempt to join by a river, a creek, or some other 
theoretical creation, the Nyanza with the Tanganyika, 
the altitude of the former being 3750 feet above sea- 
level, or 1900 feet above the latter, and the mountain 
regions which divide the two having been frequently 
travelled over by Arab and African caravans. Hence 
the name Ukerewe has been transferred in the " Mom- 
bas Mission Map " to the northern waters of the Tan- 
ganyika. The Nyanza, as regards name, position, and 
even existence, has hitherto been unknown to European 
geographers ; but, as will presently appear, descriptions 
of this sea by native travellers have been unconsciously 

• 

Salim bin Rashid, and accepted by us. Yet I read in his discovery of the 
supposed sources of the Nile : "Mansur, and a native, the greatest traveller 
of the place, kindly accompanied and gave me every obtainable information. 
This mau had traversed the island, as be called it, of Ukerewe from north 
to south. But by his rough mode of describing it, lam rather inclined to 
think that instead of its being an actual island, it is a connected tongue of 
lands stretching southwards from a promontory lying at right angles to the 
eastern shore of the lake, which being a wash, affords a passage to the 
mainland during the fine season, but during the wet becomes submerged 
and thus makes Ukerewe temporarily an island. " The information, I 
repeat, was given, not by the "native," but by Salim bin Rashid. When, 
however, the latter proceeded to correct my companion's confusion between 
the well-known coffee mart Kitara and "the island of Kitiri occupied by a 
tribe called Watiri," he gave only offence— consequently Kitiri has obtained 
a local habitation in Blackwood and Petermann. 



Google 



TRADITION CONCERNING NYANZA. 211 

transferred by our writers to the Tanganyika of Ujiji, 
and even to the Nyassa of Kilwa. 

M. Brun-Roliet ("Le Nil Blanc et le Soudan," 
p. 209) heard that on the west of the Padongo tribe, — 
whom he places to the S. of Mount Kambirah, or 
below 1° S. lat. — lies a great lake, from whose northern 
extremity issues a river whose course is unknown. In 
the map appended to his volume this water is placed 
between 1° S. and 3° N. lat., and about 25° 50' E. 
long. (Greenwich), and the de'versoir is made an in- 
fluent of the White Nile. 

Bowdich ("Discoveries of the Portuguese," pp.131, 
132), when speaking of the Maravi Lake (the Nyassa), 
mentions that the " negroes or the Moors of Melinde " 
have mentioned a great water which is known to reach 
Mombaca, which the Jesuit missionaries conjectured to 
communicate with Abyssinia, and of which Father Lewis 
Marianna, who formerly resided at Tete, recommended 
a discovery, in a letter addressed to the government at 
Goa, which is still preserved among the public archives 
of that city. Here the confusion of the Nyanza, to 
which there was of old a route from Mombasah with 
the Nyassa, is apparent. 

At the southern point, where the Muingwira River 
falls into the tortuous creek, whose surface is a little 
archipelago of brown rocky islets crowned with trees, 
and emerging from the blue waters, the observed lati- 
tude of the Nyanza Lake, is 2° 24' S. ; the longitude 
by dead reckoning from Eazeh is E. long. 33° and 
nearly due north, and the altitude by B. P. thermometer 
3750 feet above sea-level. Its extent to the north is 
unknown to the people of the southern regions, which 
rather denotes some difficulty in travelling than any 
great extent. They informed my companion that from 



212 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Mwanza to the southern frontier of Karagwah is a land 
journey of one month, " or a sea voyage of five days 
towards the N. N. W. and then to the north. They also 
pointed out the direction of Unyoro N. 20° W. 
The Arab merchants of Kazeh have seen the Nyanza 
opposite Weranhanja, the capital district of Armanika, 
King of Karagwah, and declare that it receives the 
Kitangure River, whose mouth has been placed about the 
equator. Beyond that point all is doubtful. The mer- 
chants have heard that Suna, the late despot of Uganda, 
built matumbi, or undecked vessels, capable of contain- 
ing forty or fifty men, in order to attack his enemies, 
the Wasoga, upon the creeks which indent the western 
shores of the Nyanza. This, if true, would protract the 
lake to between 1° and 1° 30' of N. lat., and give it 
a total length of about 4° or 250 miles. This point, 
however, is still involved in the deepest obscurity. Its 
breadth was estimated as follows. A hill, about 200 
feet above the water-level, shows a conspicuous landmark 
on the eastern shore, which was set down as forty miles 
distant. On the south-western angle of the line from 
the same point ground appeared ; it was not, however, 
perceptible on the north-west. The total breadth, 
therefore, has been assumed at eighty miles, — a figure 
which approaches the traditions unconsciously chronicled 
by European geographers. In the vicinity of Usoga 
the lake, according to the Arabs, broadens out : of this, 
however, and in fact of all the formation north of the 
equator, it is at present impossible to arrive at certainty. 

The Nyanza is an elevated basin or reservoir, the 
recipient of the surplus monsoon-rain which falls in the 
extensive regions of the Wamasai and their kinsmen to 
the east, the Karagwah line of the Lunar Mountains to 
the west, and to the south tfsukuma or Northern 



Digitized by 



POSITION OF NYANZA. 



213 



Unyamwezi. Extending to the equator in the central 
length of the African peninsula, and elevated above the 
limits of the depression in the heart of the continent, it 
appears to be a gap in the irregular chain which, run- 
ning from Usurabara and Kilima-ngao to Karagwah, 
represents the formation anciently termed the Mountains 
of the Moon. The physical features, as far as they 
were observed, suggest this view. The shores are low 
and flat, dotted here and there with little hills ; the 
smaller islands also are hill-tops, and any part of the 
country immediately on the south would, if inundated 
to the same extent, present a similar aspect. The lake 
lies open and elevated, rather like the drainage and the 
temporary deposit of extensive floods than a volcanic 
creation like the Tanganyika, a long narrow mountain- 
girt basin. The waters are said to be deep, and the 
extent of the inundation about the southern creek 
proves that they receive during the season an important 
accession. The colour was observed to be clear and 
blue, especially from afar in the early morning ; after 
9 a.m., when the prevalent south-east wind arose, the 
surface appeared greyish, or of a dull milky white, 
probably the effect of atmospheric reflection. The tint, 
however, does not, according to travellers, ever become 
red or green like the waters of the Nile. But the pro- 
duce of the lake resembles that of the river in its 
purity ; the people living on the shores prefer it, unlike 
that of the Tanganyika, to the highest, and clearest 
springs ; all visitors agree in commending its lightness 
and sweetness, and declare that the taste is rather of 
river or of rain-water than resembling the soft slimy 
produce of stagnant muddy bottoms, or the rough 
harsh flavour of melted ice and snow.* 

From the southern creek of the Nyanza, and beyond 

r 3 



Digitized by Google 



214 



THE LAKK REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the archipelago of neighbouring islets, appear the two 
features which have given to this lake the name of 
Ukerewe. The Arabs call them " Jezirah " — an am- 
biguous term, meaning equally insula and peninsula — 
but they can scarcely be called islands. The high and 
rocky Mazita to the east, and the comparatively flat 
Ukerewe on the west, are described by the Arabs as 
points terminating seawards in bluffs, and connected 
with the eastern shore by a low neck of land, probably 
a continuous reef, flooded during the rains, but never 
so deeply as to prevent cattle fording the isthmus. 
The northern and western extremities front deep 
water, and a broad channel separates them from the 
southern shore, Usukuma. The Arabs, when visiting 
Ukerewe or its neighbour, prefer hiring the canoes 
of the Wasukuma, and paddling round the south- 
eastern extremity of the Nyanza, to exposing their 
property and lives by marching through the dangerous 
tribes of the coast. 

Mazita belongs to a people called Makwiya. Ukerewe 
is inhabited, according to some informants, by Wasu- 
kuma ; according to others, the Wakerewe are marked 
by their language as ancient emigrants from the high- 
lands of Karagwah. In Ukerewe, which is exceedingly 
populous, are two brother Sultans: the chief is 
" Machunda ; " the second, " Ibanda," rules at Wiru, 
the headland on the western limit. The people collect 
ivory from the races on the eastern mainland, and store 
it, awaiting an Arab caravan. Beads are in most re- 
quest; as in Usukuma generally, not half a dozen 
cloths of native and foreign manufacture will be 
found upon a hundred men. The women are especi- 
ally badly clad ; even the adult maidens wear only the 
languti of India, or the Nubian apron of aloe-fibre, 



TRAFFIC OF NYAXZA. 



2 1 r> 



strung with the pipe-stem bead called sofi, and 
blackened, like India-rubber, by use ; it is fastened 
round the waist, and depends about one foot by six or 
seven inches in breadth. 

The Arabs who traffic in these regions generally 
establish themselves with Sultan Machunda, and send 
their slaves in canoes round the south-east angle of the 
lake to trade with the coast people. These races are 
successively from the south ; the Washaki, at a distance 
of three marches, and their inland neighbours the 
Wataturu ; then the Warudi, a wild tribe, rich in ivory, 
lying about a fortnight's distance; and beyond them 
the Wahumba, or Wamasai. Commercial transactions 
extend along the eastern shore as far as T'hiri, or 
Ut'hiri, a district between Ururu and Uhumba. This 
is possibly the origin of the island of Tiri or Kittiri, 
placed in my companion's map near the north-west 
extremity of the Nyanza Lake, off the coast of Uganda, 
where there is a province called Kittara, peculiarly rich 
in coffee. The explorer heard from the untrustworthy 
country people that, after a long coasting voyage, they 
arrived at an island where the inhabitants, a poor and 
naked race, live on fish, and cultivate coffee for sale. 
The information appears suspicious. The Arabs know 
of no islands upon the Nyanza which produce coffee. 
Moreover, if the people had any traffic, they would not 
be without clothing. 

The savagery of the races adjacent to the Nyanza has 
caused accidents amongst travelling traders. About 
five years ago a large caravan from Tanga, on the 
eastern coast, consisting of 400 or 500 guns, and led 
by Arab merchants, at the end of a journey which had 
lasted nearly two years, happened to quarrel with the 
Wahumba or Wamasai near the lake. The subject was 

r 4 



Digitized by Google 



216 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the burning down of some grass required for pasture 
by the wild men. Words led to blows ; the caravan, 
having but two or three pounds of gunpowder, was 
soon dispersed; seven or eight merchants lost their 
lives, and a few made their escape to Unyanycmbe. 
Before our departure from Kazeh, the slaves of Salim 
bin Rashid, having rescued one of the wounded sur- 
vivors, who had been allowed by the AVamasai to 
wander into Urudi, brought him back to Kazeh. He 
described the country as no longer practicable. In 
1858 also the same trading party, the principal 
authority for these statements, were relieved of several 
bales of cloth, during their sleep, when bivouacking 
upon an inhabited island near the eastern shore. 

The altitude, the conformation of the Xyanza Lake, 
the argilaceous colour and the sweetness of its waters, 
combine to suggest that it may be one of the feeders of 
the White Nile. In the map appended to M. Brun- 
. Rollet's volume, before alluded to, the large water west 
of the Padongo tribe, which clearly represents the 
Nyanza or Ukerewe, is, I have observed, made to drain 
northwards into the Fitri Lake, and eventually to swell 
the main stream of the White River. The details sup- 
plied by the Egyptian Expedition, which, about twenty 
years ago, ascended the White River to 3° 22' N. lat., 
and 31° 30' E. long., and gave the general bearing of the 
river from that point to its source as south-east, with a 
distance of one month's journey, or from 300 to 
350 miles, would place the actual sources 2° S. lat., 
and 35° E. long., or in 2° eastward of the southern 
creek of the Nyanza Lake. This position would occupy 
the northern counterslope of the Lunar Mountains, the 
upper water-shed of the high region whose culminating 
apices are Kilima-Ngao, Kenia, and Doengo Engai. The 



Digitized by 



DR. KRAPF'S MONKEY-RIVER. 



217 



distance of these peaks from the coast, as given by Dr. 
Krapf, must be considerably reduced, and little autho- 
rity can be attached to his river Tumbiri.* The site, 
supposed by Mr. Macqueen ("Proceedings of the Geo- 
graphical Society of London," January 24th, 1859), to 
be at least 21,000 feet above the level of the sea, and 
consequently 3000 or 4000 feet above the line of per- 
petual congelation, would admirably explain the two 
most ancient theories concerning the source of the 
White River, namely, that it arises in a snowy region, 
and that its inundation is the result of tropical rains. 

It is impossible not to suspect that between the upper 
portion of the Nyanza and the watershed of the White 
Kile there exists a longitudinal range of elevated ground, 
running from east to west — a " furca " draining north- 
wards into the Nile and southwards into the Nyanza 
Lake — like that which separates the Tanganyika from 
the Maravi or Nyassa of Kilwa. According to Don 
Angelo Vinco, who visited Loqu^ck in 1852, beyond the 
cataract of Garbo — supposed to be in N. lat. 2° 40' — 
at a distance of sixty miles lie Robego, the capital of 
Kuenda, and Lokoya (Logoja), of which the latter re- 
ceives an affluent from the east. Beyond Lokoya the 
AVhite Nile is described as a small and rocky mountain- 
river, presenting none of the features of a stream flowing 

* The large river Tumbiri, mentioned by Dr. Krapf as flowing towards 
Egypt from the northern counterslope of Mount Kenia, rests upon the sole 
authority of a single wandering native. As, moreover, the word Thumbiri 
or Thuinbili means a monkey, and the people are peculiarly fond of satire 
in a small way, it is not improbable that the very name bad no foundation of 
fact This is mentioned, as some geographers— for instance, Mr. Macqueen 
(" Observations on the Geography of Central Africa :" "Proceedings of the 
R.G. S. of London," May 9, 1859)— have been struck by the circumstance 
that the Austrian Missionaries and Mr. W erne (" Expedition to discover the 
sources of the White Nile, in 1840-41") gave Tubirih as the Bari name of 
the White Nile at the southern limit of their exploration. 



Digitized by Google 



218 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

• from a broad expanse of water like the great Nyanza 
reservoir. 

The periodical swelling of the Nyanza Lake, which, 
flooding a considerable tract of land on the south, may 
be supposed — as it lies flush with the basal surface of 
the country — to inundate extensively all the low lands 
that form its periphery, forbids belief in the possibility 
of its being the head-stream of the Nile, or the reservoir 
of its periodical inundation. In Karagwah, upon the 
western shore, the masika or monsoon lasts from October 
to May or June, after which the dry season sets in. The 
Egyptian Expedition found the river falling fast at the 
end of January, and they learned from the people that 
it would again rise about the end of March, at which 
season the sun is vertical over the equator. About the 
summer solstice (June), when the rains cease in the 
regions south of and upon the equator, the White Nile 
begins to flood. From March to the autumnal equinox 
(September) it continues to overflow its banks till it 
attains its magnitude, and from that time it shrinks 
through the winter solstice (December) till March. The 
Nile is, therefore, full during the dry season and low 
during the rainy season south of and immediately upon 
the equator. And as the northern counterslope of 
Kenia will, to a certain extent, be a lee-land, like Ugogo, 
it cannot have the superfluity of moisture necessary to 
send forth a first-class stream. The inundation is 
synchronous with the great falls of the northern equa- 
torial regions, which extend from July to September, 
and is dependent solely upon the tropical rains. It is, 
therefore, probable that the true sources of the " Holy 
River" will be found to be a network of runnels and 
rivulets of scanty dimensions, filled by monsoon torrents, 
and perhaps a little swollen by melted snow on the 



Digitized by Google 



THE WAHIXDA. 



am 



219 



northern water-parting of the Eastern Lunar Moun- 
tains. 

Of the tribes dwelling about the Nyanza, the western 
have been already described. The Washaki and the 
Warudi are plundering races on the east, concerning 
whom little is known. Remain the Wahinda, a clan or 
class alluded to in this and a former chapter, and the 
Wataturu, an extensive and once powerful tribe, men- 
tioned when treating of the regions about Tura. 

The Wahinda (in the singular Muhinda) are, accord- 
ing to some Arabs, a foreign and ruling family, who 
coming from a distant country, probably in the neighbour- 
hood of Soraaliland, conquered the lands, and became 
Sultans. This opinion seems to rest upon physical pecu- 
liarities, — the superiority of the Wahinda in figure, 
stature, and complexion to their subjects suggesting a 
difference of origin. Others explain the word Muhinda 
to mean a cadet of royal family, and call the class Bayt 
el Saltanah, or the Kingly House. Thus, whilst Arma- 
nika is the Mkdmd or Sovereign of Karagwah, his 
brother simply takes the title of Muhinda. These con- 
flicting statements may be reconciled by the belief 
general in the country that the families of the Sultans 
are a foreign and a nobler race, the date of whose im- 
migration has long fallen into oblivion. This may be 
credited without difficulty ; the physique of the rulers 
—approximating more to the northern races of Arica — 
is markedly less negroid than that of their subjects, and 
the difference is too great to be explained by the effects 
of climate or of superior diet, comfort, and luxury. 

The Wahinda are found in the regions of Usui, 
Karagwah, Uhha, Uvinza, Uyungu, Ujiji, and Urundi, 
where they live in boma — stockades — and scattered 
villages. Of this race are the Sultans Suwarora of the 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA 



Wasui, Armanika of Karagwah, Kanoni of Uhha, Kanze 
of Uyungu, Mzogera of Uvinza, Rusimba of Ujiji, 
Mwezi of Urundi, Mnyamurunde of Uyofo, Gaetawa of 
Uhayya, and Mutawazi of Utumbara. The Wahinda 
affect a milk diet which is exceedingly fattening, and 
anoint themselves plentifully with butter and ghee, to 
soften and polish the skin. They never sell their fellow 
clansmen, are hospitable and civil to strangers, seldom 
carry arms, fear nothing from the people, and may not 
be slain even in battle. Where the Wahinda reign, 
their ministers are the Watosi, a race which has been 
described when treating of their head-quarters Kara- 
gwah. 

The Wataturu extend from the Mdngewd district, two 
marches northward of Tura in a north-north-westerly 
diagonal, to Usmao, a district of Usukuma, at the south- 
east angle of the Nyanza Lake. On the north and east 
they are limited by the Wahumba, on the south by the 
people of Iramba, and there is said to be a connection 
between these three tribes. This wild pastoral people 
were formerly rich in flocks and herds; they still have 
the best asses in the country. About five years ago, 
however, they were persuaded by Msimbira, a chief of 
Usukuma, to aid him against his rival Mpagamo, who 
had called in the Arabs to his assistance. During the 
long and bitter contest which ensued, the Arabs, as has 
been related, were worsted in the field, and the Wataturu 
suffered severe losses in cattle. Shortly before the 
arrival of the Expedition at Kazeh the foreign merchants 
had despatched to Utaturu a plundering party of sixty 
slave-musketeers, who, however, suddenly attacked by 
the people, were obliged to fly, leaving behind eighteen 
of their number. This event was followed by a truce, 
and the Wataturu resumed their commerce with Tura 



Digitized by Google 



THE WATATU H U 



221 



and Unyanyembe, where, in 1858, a caravan, numbering 
about 300 men, came in. Two small parties of this 
people were also met at Tura ; they were small, dark, 
and ugly savages, almost beardless, and not unlike the 
" Thakur " people in Maharatta-land. Their asses, pro- 
vided with neat saddle-bags of zebra skin, were better 
dressed than the men, who wore no clothing except the 
simplest hide-sandals. According to the Arabs this clan 
affects nudity: even adult maidens dispense with the 
usual skin-kilt.- The men ignored bows and arrows, but 
they were efficiently armed with long spears, double- 
edged sime, and heavy hide shields. They brought 
calabash or monkey-bread flour — in this country, as in 
Ugogo, a favourite article of consumption — and a little 
coarse salt, collected from the dried mud of a Mbuga or 
swamp in the land of Iramba, to be bartered for holcus 
and beads. Their language sounded to the unpractised 
ear peculiarly barbarous, and their savage suspicious- 
ness rendered it impossible to collect any specimens. 

At Kazeh, sorely to my disappointment, it was finally 
settled, in a full conclave of Arabs, that we must return 
to the coast by the tedious path with which we were 
already painfully familiar. At Ujiji the state of our 
finances had been the sole, though the sufficient obstacle 
to our traversing Africa from east to west ; we might — 
had we possessed the means — by navigating the Tan- 
ganyika southwards, have debouched, after a journey of 
three months, at Kilwa. The same cause prevented us 
from visiting the northern kingdoms of Karagwah and 
Uganda ; to effect this exploration, however, we should 
have required not only funds but time. The rains there 
setting in about September render travelling impossible ; 
our two years' leave of absence were drawing to a close, 
and even had we commanded a sufficient outfit, we were 



Digitized by Google 



222 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

not disposed to risk the consequences of taking an extra 
twelve months. No course, therefore, remained but to 
regain the coast. We did not, however, give up hopes 
of making our return useful to geography, by tracing 
the course of the Rwaha or Rufiji River, and of visit- 
ing the coast between the Usagara Mountains and 
Kilwa, an unknown line not likely to attract future 
travellers. 



Digitized by 



. « * 



uigiiizea D 



by Google 



uigiiizeo uy 



Google 



Digitized by CjOOQic 



Mfsongo Thcmbo, or the Elephant's Back. 



CHAP. XVII. 

THE DOWN-MABCH TO TIIE COAST. 

On the 5th September 1858, Musa Mzuri — handsome 
Moses, as he was called by the Africans — returned with 
great pomp to Kazeh after his long residence at Ka- 
ragwah. Some details concerning this merchant, who 
has played a conspicuous part in the eventful "peri- 
pedes " of African discovery, may be deemed well placed. 

About thirty-five years ago, Musa, a Moslem of the 
Kojah sect, and then a youth, was driven by poverty 
from his native Surat to follow his eldest brother 
" Sayyan," who having sought fortune at Zanzibar, and 
having been provided with an outfit by the Sayyid el 



224 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Laghbari, then governor of the island, made sundry 
journeys into the interior. About 1825, the brothers 
first visited the Land of the Moon, preceding the Arab 
travellers, who in those days made their markets at 
Usanga and Usenga, distant about a dozen marches to 
the S.S.E. of Kazeh. Musa describes Unyamwezi as- 
richly cultivated, and he has not forgotten the hospit- 
able reception of the people. The brothers bought up 
a little venture of forty Farasilah or twenty men's loads 
of cloth and beads, and returned with a joint stock of 
800 Farasilah (800 x 35 = 28,000 lbs. avoirdupois) in 
ivory ; as Sayyan died on the road, all fell to Musa's 
share. Since that time he has made five journeys to 
the coast and several to the northern kingdoms. About 
four years ago Armanika, the present Sultan of Ka- 
ragwah, was besieged in a palisaded village by a rebel 
brother Rumanika. On this occasion Musa, in company 
with the king, endured great hardships, and incurred no 
little risk ; when both parties were weary of fighting, 
he persuaded, by a large bribe of ivory, Suna, the 
powerful despot of the neighbouring kingdom of 
Uganda, to raise the siege, by throwing a strong force 
into the field. He has ever since been fraternally 
received by Armanika, and his last journey to Ka- 
ragwah was for the purpose of recovering part of the 
ivory expended in the king's cause. After an absence 
of fifteen months he brought back about a score of 
splendid tusks, one weighing, he declared, upwards of 
200 lbs. During his detention Salim bin Sayf, of 
Dut'humi, who had been entrusted by Musa with sixty- 
five Farasilah of ivory to barter for goods on the coast, 
arrived at Unyanyembc, when hearing the evil tidings, 
the wily Harisi appropriated the property and returned 
to whence he came. Like most merchants in East Africa, 



Digitized by 



HANDSOME MOsEP. 



225 



Musa's business is extensive, but his gains are princi- 
pally represented by outlying debts ; he cannot, there- 
fore, leave the country without an enormous sacrifice. 
He is the recognised Doyen of the commercial body, 
and he acts agent and warehouseman ; his hall is usually 
full of buyers and sellers, Arab and African, and large 
investments of wires, beads, and cotton- cloths, some of 
them valuable, are regularly forwarded to him with 
comforts and luxuries from the coast. 

Musa Mzuri is now a man of the uncertain " certain 
age" between forty-five and fifty, thin-bearded, tall, 
gaunt, with delicate extremities, and with the regular 
and handsome features of a high-caste Indian Moslem. 
Like most of his % compatriots, he is a man of sad and 
staid demeanour, and he is apparently faded by opium, 
which so tyrannises over him that he carries pills in 
every pocket, and stores them, lest the hoard should run 
short, in each comer and cranny of his house. His clean 
new dress, perfumed with jasmine-oil and sandal-wood, 
his snowy skull-cap and well-fitting sandals, distin- 
guish him in appearance from the Arabs ; and his abode, 
which is almost a village, with its lofty gates and 
its spacious courts, full of slaves and hangers-on, con- 
trasts with the humility of the Semite tenements. 

On arrival at Kazeh I forwarded to Musa the intro- 
ductory letter with which H. H. the Sayyid Majid 
had honoured me. Sundry civilities passed between 
his housekeeper, Mama Khamisi, and ourselves ; she sup- . 
plied the Baloch with lodgings and ourselves with milk, 
for which we were careful to reward her. After re- 
turning from Ujiji we found Abdullah, the eldest of 
Musa's two sons by different slave girls, resting at 
Kazeh after his down-march from Karagwah. He 
knew a few words of English, but he had learned no 

VOL. II.. Q 



Digitized by Google 



22G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Hind os tan i from his father, who curious to say, after 
an expatriation of thirty-five years, still spoke his 
mother-tongue purely and well. The youth would 
have become a greater favourite had he not been so 
hard a drinker and so quarrelsome in his cups; on 
more than one occasion he had dangerously cut or 
stabbed his servile boon-companions. Musa had spared 
the rod, or had used it upon him to very little purpose ; 
after intruding himself repeatedly into the hall and 
begging for handsome clothes, with more instance of 
freedom than consisted with decorum, he was warned 
that if he stayed away it might be the better for his 
back, and he took the warning. 

Musa, when rested after his weary return-march, 
called upon me with all due ceremony, escorted by the 
principal Arab merchants. I was not disappointed in 
finding him wholly ignorant concerning Africa and 
things African ; Snay bin Amir had told me that such 
was the case. He had, however, a number of slaves 
fresh from Karagwah and Uganda, who confirmed the 
•accounts previously received from Arab travellers in 
those regions. Musa displayed even more hospitality 
than his fellow-travellers. Besides the mbogoro or 
skinful of grain and the goat usually offered to fresh 
arrivals, he was ever sending those little presents of 
provisions which in the East cannot be refused without 
olfence. I narrowly prevented his killing a bullock to 
provide us with beef, and at last I feared to mention a 
want before him. During his frequent visits he invari- 
ably showed himself a man of quiet and unaffected 
manners, dashed with a little Indian reserve, which in 
process of time would probably have worn off. 

On the 6th September, Said bin Salim, nervously im- 
patient to commence the march homewards, " made a 



Digitized by 



HANDSOME MOSES. 



227 



khambi," that is to say, pitched our tents undera spreading 
tree outside and within sight of Kazeh. Although he had 
been collecting porters for several days, only two came 
to the fore ; a few refreshing showers were falling at the 
autumnal equinox, and the black peasantry so miscalcu- 
lated the seasons that they expected the immediate advent 
of the great Masika. Moreover, when informed that our 
route would debouch at Kilwa, they declared that they 
must receive double pay, as they could not expect there 
to be hired by return caravans. That the " khambi " 
might assume an appearance of reality, the Baloch were 
despatched into " country-quarters." As they followed 
their usual tactic, affecting eagerness to depart but 
privily clinging to the pleasures of Kazeh, orders were 
issued definitively to " cut " their rations in case of 
necessity. The sons of Ramji, who had returned 
from Msene, without, however, intrusion or swagger, 
were permitted to enter the camp. Before the march I 
summoned them, and in severe terms recapitulated their 
misdeeds, warned them that they would not be re- 
engaged, and allowed them provisions and protection 
only on condition of their carrying, as the slaves of 
Arab merchants are expected to do, our lighter valu- 
ables, such as the digester, medicine-chest, gun-cases, 
camp-table and chair. They promised with an edifying 
humility to reform. I was compelled, however to en- 
liven their murmuring by a few slight floggings before 
they would become amenable to a moral rule, and 
would acquire those habits of regularity which are as 
chains and fetters to the African man. The five 
Wak'hutu porters who, after robbing and deserting us 
on the road to Ujiji, had taken service with my old ac- 
quaintance, Salim bin Rashid — the well-informed Coast 
Arab merchant, originally named by H. H. the Sayyid 

q 2 



Digitized by Google 



228 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Majid, as my guide and caravan leader, — begged hard 
to be again employed. I positively refused to see them. 
If at this distance from home they had perjured them- 
selves and had plundered us, what might be expected 
when they arrived near their native country ? 

As the time of departure approached, I regretted that 
the arrival of several travellers had not taken place a 
month earlier. Salim bin Rashid, whilst collecting ivory 
in Usukuma and to the eastward of the Nyanza Lake, 
had recovered a Msawahili porter, who, falling sick on 
the road, had been left by a caravan from Tanga amongst 
the wildest of the East African tribes, the Wamasai or 
Wahumba. From this man, who spent two years 
amongst those plunderers and their rivals in villany 
the Warudi, I derived some valuable information con- 
cerning the great northern route which spans the 
countries lying between the coast and the Nyanza Lake. 
I was also called upon by Amayr bin Said el Shaksi, a 
strong-framed and stout-hearted greybeard, who, when 
his vessel foundered in the waters of the Tanganyika, 
saved his life by swimming, and as he had no goods and 
but few of his slaves had survived, lived for five months 
on roots and grasses, till restored to Ujiji by an Arab 
canoe. A garrulous senior, fond of " venting his 
travels," he spent many hours with me, talking over 
his past adventures, and his ocular knowledge of the 
Tanganyika enabled me to gather many, perhaps, reliable 
details concerning its southern extremity. A few days 
before departure Hilal bin Nasur, a well-born Harisi, 
returned from K'hokoro ; he supplied me with a list of 
stations and a lengthy description of his various ex- 
cursions to the southern provinces.* 

* For this and other purely geographical details concerning the Southern 
Provinces,' the reader is referred to the Journal of the Royal Geographical 
Society, vol. xxix. 1860. 



Digitized by Google 



OUTFIT FOR RETURN". 



229 



Said bin Salim, in despair that the labours of a whole 
fortnight spent in the jungle had produced the slenderest 
of results, moved from under the tree in Kazeh plain 
to Masui, a dirty little village distant about three miles 
to the east of our head-quarters. As he reported on the 
25th of September that his gang was nearly completed, 
I sent forward all but the personal baggage. The 
Arab had, however, secured but three Hammals or 
bearers for my hammock ; one a tottering old man, the 
other a knock-kneed boy, and the third a notorious 
skulk. Although supplied with meat to strengthen 
them, as they expressed it, they broke down after a 
single march. From that time, finding it useless to 
engage bearers for a long journey in these lands, I 
hired men from district to district, and dismissed them 
when tired. The only objection to this proceeding was 
its inordinate expense : three cloths being generally 
demanded by the porter for thirty miles. A little 
calculation will give an idea of the relative cost of 
travelling in Africa and in Europe. Assuming each man 
to receive one cloth, worth one dollar, for every ten 
miles, and that six porters are required to carry the 
hammock, we have in Africa an expenditure on carriage 
alone of nearly half a crown per mile : in most parts of 
Europe travel on the iron road has been reduced to one 
penny. 

Our return from Unyanyembe to the coast was to 
take place during the dead season, when provisions are 
most expensive and are not un frequently unprocurable. 
But being " Wazungu " and well provided with " African 
money," we might expect the people to sell to us their 
grain and stores, which they would have refused at 
tariff-prices to Arabs or Wasawahili. We carried as 
stock fourteen porters' loads of cloth, viz., 645 do* 

Q 3 



Digitized by Google 



230 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



mestics, 653 blue cottons, and 20 coloured cloths, 
principally Debwani, Barsati, and Subai, as presents 
to chiefs. The supply of beads was represented by 
one load of ububu or black-porcelains — afterwards 
thrown away as useless — half a Frasilah (17*5 pounds) 
of "locust-legs," or pink-porcelains, purchased from 
Sallum bin Hatnid, and eight Kartasat or papered- 
bundles of the heavy and expensive " town -breakers," 
vermilion or coral -porcelains, amounting to seventy 
Fundo, each of which covered as a rule the day's minor 
expenses. The other stores were the fifty-four Jembc 
purchased at Msene, besides a few brought from 
Usukuma by ray companion. These articles are use- 
ful in making up kuhonga or blackmail ; in Ugogo and 
Usagara, which is their western limit, they double in 
value, and go even further than a white cotton-cloth. 
Finally, we had sixteen cows, heifers, and calves, bought 
in Usukuma by my companion, at the rate of six 
domestics per head. We expected them to be service- 
able as presents, and meanwhile to add materially to 
our comfort by a more regular supply of milk than 
the villages afford. But, alas! having neglected to 
mark the animals, all were change'd — a fact made 
evident by their running dry after a few days: the 
four calves presently died of fatigue; whenever an 
animal lay down upon the road its throat was sum- 
marily cut, others were left to stray and be stolen, and 
the last bullock preserved for a sirloin on Chris tm «*s- 
was prematurely lost. A small per-centage proved 
useful as tribute to the chiefs of Ugogo, and served as 
rations when grain was unprocurable. The African, 
however, looks upon meat, not aa " Posho " — daily 
bread — but as kitoweyo — kitchen: two or three 
pounds of beef merely whet his teeth for the usual 



Digitized by Google 



DEPARTURE FROM KAZEII. 



231 



Ugali or porridge of boiled flour. It is almost need- 
less to state that, despite the best surveillance and the 
strictest economy, we arrived at the coast almost desti- 
tude ; cloth and beads, hoes and cattle, all had disap- 
peared, and had we possessed treble the quantity, it 
would have gone the same way. 

The 26th September, 1858, saw us on foot betimes. 
The hospitable Snay bin Amir, freshly recovered from 
an influenza which had confined him for some days to 
his sleeping-mat, came personally to superintend our 
departure. As no porters had returned for property 
left behind, and as all the "cooking-pots" had preceded 
us on the yester, Snay supplied us with his own slaves, 
and provided us with an Arab breakfast, well cooked, and 
as usual, neatly served on porcelain plates, with plaited 
and coloured straw dish-covers, pointed like Chinese 
caps. Then, promising to spend the next day with me, 
he shook hands and followed me out of the compound. 
After a march of three miles, under a white-hot sun, 
and through a chilling wind, to which were probably 
owing our subsequent sufferings, we entered the dirty 
little village of Masui, where a hovel had been prepared 
for us by Said bin Salim. There we were greeted by 
the caravan, and we heard with pleasure that it was 
ready, after a fashion, to break ground. 

Early on the next morning appeared Snay bin Amir 
and Mu3a Mzuri: as I was suffering from a slight 
attack of fever, my companion took ray place as host. 
The paroxysm passing off, allowed me to settle all 
accounts with Snay bin Amir, and to put a finishing 
touch to the names of stations in the journal. I then 
thanked these kind-hearted men for their many good 
deeds, and promised to report to H. II. the Sayyid 
Majid the hospitable reception of his Arab subjects 

Q4 



Digitized by Google 



232 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



generally, and of Snay and Musa in particular. About 
evening time I shook hands with Snay bin Amir — 
having so primed the dear old fellow with a stirrup-cup 
of burnt-punch, that his gait and effusion of manner 
were by no means such as became a staid and stately 
Arab Shaykh. 

On the 4th October, after a week of halts and snail's 
marches — the insufficiency of porterage compelled me 
to send back men for the articles left behind at the 
several villages — we at last reached Hanga, our former 
quarters on the eastern confines of the Unyanyembe dis- 
trict. As long as we were within easy distance of 
Kazeh it was impossible to keep the sons of Ramji 
in camp, and their absence interfered materially with 
the completion of the gang. Several desertions took 
place, a slave given by Kannena of Ujiji to Said bin 
Salim, old Musangesi the Asinego, and two new pur- 
chases, male and female, made by the Baloch at Kazeh, 
disappeared after the first few marches. The porters 
were troublesome. They had divided themselves as 
usual into Khambi, or crews, but no regular Kirangozi 
having been engaged, they preferred, through mutual 
jealousy, following Shehe, one of the sons of Ramji. 
On the road, also, some heads had been broken, because 
the cattle-drivers had attempted to precede the line, 
and I feared that the fall of a chance shower might 
make the whole squad desert, under the impression that 
the sowing season had set in. In their idleness and 
want of excitement, they had determined) to secure at 
Hanga the bullock claimed by down caravans at Ru- 
buga. After four days' halt, without other labour but 
that of cooking, they arose under pretext of a blow 
given by one of the children of Said bin Salim, and 
packing up their goods and chattels, poured in mass, 



Digitized 



MY COMPANION'S ILLNESS. 233 

with shouts and yells, from the village, declaring that 
they were going home. In sore tribulation, Said bin 
Salim and the Jemadar begged me to take an active 
part, bat a short experience of similar scenes amongst 
the Bashi-Buzuks at the Dardanelles had made me 
wiser than my advisers : the African, like the Asiatic, 
is naturally averse to the operation proverbially called 
"cutting off one's own nose;" but if begged not to do 
so, he may wax, like pinioned men, valorous exceedingly, 
and dare the suicidal deed. I did not move from my 
hut, and in half an hour everything was in statu quo 
ante. The porters had thrown the blame of the pro- 
ceeding upon the blow, consequently a flogging was 
ordered for Said bin Salim's " child," who, as was ever 
the case, had been flagrantly in the wrong ; but after 
return, evading the point, the plaintiffs exposed the 
true state of affairs by a direct reference to the bul- 
lock. Thus the " child" escaped castigation, and the 
bullock was not given till we reached Rubuga. 

At Hanga my companion was taken seriously ill. 
He had been chilled on the line of march by the cruel 
easterly wind, and at the end of the second march 
from Kazeh he appeared trembling as if with ague. 
Immediately after arrival at the foul village of Hanga 
— where we lodged in a kind of cow-house, full of 
vermin, and exposed directly to the fury of the cold 
gales — he complained, in addition to a deaf ear, an in- 
flamed eye, and a swollen face, of a mysterious pain 
which often shifted its seat, and which he knew not 
whether to attribute to liver or to spleen. It began 
with a burning sensation,- as by a branding-iron, above 
the right breast, and then extended to the heart with 
sharp twinges. After ranging around the spleen, it 
attacked the upper part of the right lung, and finally 



Digitized by Google 



234 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

it settled in the region of the liver. On the 10th Oc- 
tober, suddenly waking about dawn from a horrible 
dream, in which a close pack of tigers, leopards, and 
other beasts, harnessed with a network of iron hooks, 
were dragging him like the rush of a whirlwind over 
the ground, he found himself sitting up on the side of 
his bedding, forcibly clasping both sides with his hands. 
Half-stupefied by pain, he called Bombay, who having 
formerly suffered from the " Kichyoma-chyoraa" — the 
"little irons" — raised his masters right arm, placed 
him in a sitting position, as lying down was impossible, 
and directed him to hold the left ear behind the head, 
thus relieving the excruciating and torturing twinges, 
by lifting the lung from the liver. The next spasm 
was less severe, but the sufferer's mind had begun to 
wander, and he again clasped his sides, a proceeding 
with which Bombay interfered. 

Early on the next morning, my companion, supported 
by Bombay and Gactano, staggered towards the tent. 
Nearing the doorway, he sent in his Goanese, to place 
a chair for sitting, as usual, during the toils of the day, 
outside. The support of an arm being thus removed, 
ensued a second and violent spasm of cramps and 
twinges, all the muscles being painfully contracted. 
After resting for a few moments, he called his men to 
assist him into the house. But neglecting to have a 
chair previously placed for him, he underwent a third 
fit of the same epileptic description, which more closely 
resembled those of hydrophobia than aught I had ever 
witnessed. He was once more haunted by a crowd of 
hideous devils, giants, and lion-headed demons, who 
were wrenching, with superhuman force, and stripping 
the sinews and tendons of his legs down to the ankles. 



Digitized by Google 



THE KICIIYOMA-CHYOMA. 



235 



At length, sitting, or rather lying upon the chair, with 
limbs racked by cramps, features drawn and ghastly, 
frame fixed and rigid, eyes glazed and glassy, he began 
to utter a barking noise, and a peculiar chopping motion 
of the mouth and tongue, with lips protruding — the 
effect of difficulty of breathing — which so altered his 
appearance that he was hardly recognisable, and com- 
pleted the terror of the beholders. When this, the 
third and the severest spasm, had passed away, he called 
for pen and paper, and fearing that increased weakness 
of mind and body might presently prevent any exertion, 
he wrote an incoherent letter of farewell to his family. 
That, however, was the crisis. He was afterwards able 
to take the proper precautions, never moving without 
assistance, and always ordering a resting-place to be 
prepared for him. He spent a better night, with the 
inconvenience, however, of sitting up, pillow-propped, 
and some weeks elapsed before he could lie upon his 
sides. Presently, the pains were mitigated, though 
they did not entirely cease : this he expressed by say- 
ing that "the knives were sheathed." Such, gentle 
reader, in East Africa, is the kichyoma-chyoma : either 
one of those eccentric after-effects of fever, which per- 
plex the European at Zanzibar, or some mysterious 
manifestation of the Protean demon Miasma. 

I at once sent an express to Snay bin Amir for the 
necessary drugs. The Arabs treat this complaint by 
applying to the side powdered myrrh mixed with yoke 
of egg, and converted into a poultice with flour of 
mung (Phaseolus Mungo). The material was duly 
forwarded, but it proved of little use. Said bin Salim 
meanwhile, after sundry vague hints concerning the 
influence of the Father of Hair, the magnificent comet 



Digitized by Google 



23G THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

then spanning the western skies, insisted, as his people 
invariably do on such conjunctures, upon my companion 
being visited by the mganga, or medicine-man of the 
caravan. That reverend personage, after claiming and 
receiving the usual fee, a fat goat, anointed with its 
grease two little bits of wood strung on to a tape of 
tree-fibre, and contented himself with fastening this 
Mpigi — the negroid's elixir vitee — round my com- 
panion's waist. The ligature, however, was torn off 
after a few minutes, as its only effect was to press upon 
and pain the tenderest part. 

During the forced halt which followed my companion's 
severe attack, I saw that, in default of physic, change of 
air was the most fitting restorative. My benumbed legs 
and feet still compelling me to use a hammock, a second 
was rigged up for the invalid ; and by good fortune 
thirteen unloaded porters of a down caravan consented 
to carry us both for a large sum to Rubuga. The sons 
of Ramji were imperatively ordered to leave Kazeh 
under pain of dismissal, which none would incur as they 
had a valuable investment in slaves : with their aid the 
complement of porters was easily and speedily filled 
up. 

Seedy Mubarak Bombay — in the interior the name 
became Mamba (a crocodile) or Pombe (small beer) — 
had long before returned to his former attitude, that of 
a respectful and most ready servant. He had, it is 
true, sundry uncomfortable peculiarities. A heaven- 
born " Pagazi," he would load himself on the march 
with his " T'haka-t'haka," or " chow-chow," although a 
porter had been especially hired for him. He had no 
memory: an article once taken by him was always 
thrown upon the ground and forgotten : in a single trip 
he broke my elephant gun, killed my riding-ass, and lost 



Digitized by Google 



SEEDY BOMBAY, 



237 



its bridle. Like the Eastern Africans generally, he 
lacked the principle of immediate action; if beckoned 
to for a gun in the field he would probably first delay 
to look round, then retire, and lastly advance. He had 
a curious inverted way of doing all that he did. The 
water-bottle was ever carried on the march either un- 
corked or inverted ; his waistcoat was generally wound 
round his neck, and it appeared fated not to be properly 
buttoned ; whilst he walked bareheaded in the sun, his 
Fez adorned the tufty poll of some comrade ; and at the 
halt he toiled like a charwoman to raise our tents and 
to prepare them for habitation, whilst his slave, the 
large lazy Maktubu, a boy-giant from the mountains of 
Urundi, sat or dozed under the cool shade. Yet with 
all his faults and failures Bombay, for his unwearied 
activity, and especially from his undeviating honesty, 
— theie was no man, save our "Negro Rectitude," in 
the whole camp who had not proved his claim to the 
title triliteral — was truly valuable. Said bin Salim 
had long forfeited my confidence by his carelessness and 
extravagance ; and the disappearance of the outfit com- 
mitted to him at Ujiji, in favour, as I afterwards learned, 
of an Arab merchant-friend, rendered him unfit for the 
responsibilities of stewardship. 

Having summoned Said bin Salim, I told him with all 
gentleness, in order to spare his "shame" — the Persian 
proverb says, Fell not the tree which thou hast planted 
— that being now wiser in Eastern African travel than 
before, I intended to relieve him of his troublesome 
duties. He heard this announcement with the wriest of 
faces ; and his perturbation was not diminished when 
informed that the future distribution of cloth should be 
wholly in the hands of Bombay, checked by my com- 
panion^ superintendence. The loads were accordingly 



Digitized by Google 



'238 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



numbered and registered ; the Pagazi were forbidden, 
under pain of punishment, to open or to change them 
without permission ; and Said bin Salim received, like 
the Baloch, a certain monthly amount of beads, besides 
rations of rice for the consumption of his children. 
This arrangement was persevered in till we separated 
upon the seaboard : it acted well, saving outfit, ^ime, 
and a host of annoyances ; moreover, it gave us com- 
mand, as the African man, like the lower animals, 
respects only, if he respects anything, the hand that 
gives, that feeds him. It was wonderful to see how the 
" bone of contention," cloth, having been removed, the 
fierceness of those who were formerly foes melted and 
merged into friendship and fraternisation. The triad 
of bitter haters, Said bin Salim, the monocular Jemadar, 
and Muinyi Kidogo, now marched and sat and ate 
together as if never weary of such society; they praised 
one another openly and without reserve, and if an evil 
tale ever reached my ear its subject was Ac innocent 
Bombay — its object was to ruin him in n^estimation. 

Acutely remembering the trouble caused by the feuds 
between Said bin Salim and Kidogo upon the subject of 
work, I directed the former to take sole charge of the 
porters, to issue their rations, and to superintend their 
loads. The better to assist him, two disorderly sons of 
Ramji were summarily flogged, and several others 
who refused to carry our smaller valuables were re- 
duced to order by the usual process of stopping rations. 
" Shehe," though chosen as Kirangozi or guide from 
motives of jealousy by the porters, was turned out of 
office ; he persisted in demanding cloth for feeing an 
Unyamwezi medicine-man, in order to provide him, a 
Moslem ! with charms against the evil eye, a superstition 
unknown to this part of Eastern Africa. The Pagazi, 



Digitized by 



TUB WICKED WHITE. 



219 



ordered to elect one of their number, named the youth 
Twamgana, who had brought with him a large gang. 
But the plague of the party, a hideous, puckered, and 
scowling old man who had called himself " Muzungu 
Mbaya," or the " Wicked White," so far prevailed that 
at the first halt Twanigana, with his blushing honours 
in the shape of a scarlet waistcoat fresh upon him, was 
found squatting solus under a tree, the rest of the party 
having mutinously preceded him. I halted at once 
and recalled the porters, who, after a due interval of 
murmuring, reappeared. And subsequently, by inva- 
riably siding with the newly-made Kirangozi, and by- 
showing myself ready to enforce obedience by any means 
and every means, I gave the long-legged and weak- 
minded youth, who was called " Gopa-Gopa " — " Funk- 
stick" — on account of his excessive timidity, a little 
confidence, and reduced his unruly followers to all the 
discipline of which their race is capable. 

As we weAfhreatcned with want of water on the way, 
1 preparcdvjif that difficulty by packing a box with 
empty bottles, which, when occasion required, might be 
filled at the best springs. The Zemzcmiyah or travel- 
ling canteen of the East African is everywhere a long- 
necked gourd, slung to the shoulder by a string. But 
it becomes offensive after a short use, and it can never 
be entrusted to servant, slave, or porter without its 
contents being exhausted before a mile is measured. 

By these arrangements, the result of that after- 
wisdom which some have termed fools' wit, I com- 
menced the down march under advantages, happy as a 
"bourg oii" of trappers in the joyous pays sauvage. I 
have detailed perhaps to a wearisome lengtli the pre- 
parations for the march. But the success of such ex- 
peditions mainly depends upon the measures adopted 



Digitized by Google 



•240 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



before and immediately after departure, and this dry 
knowledge may be useful to future adventurers in the 
great cause of discovery. 

The stages now appeared shorter, the sun cooler, the 
breeze warmer; after fourteen months of incessant fevers, 
the party had become tolerably acclimatised ; all were 
now loud in praise, as they had been violent in censure, 
of the " water and air." Before entering the Fiery Field, 
the hire for carrying the hammocks became so exorbi- 
tant that I dismissed the bearers, drew on my jack- 
boots, mounted the half-caste Zanzibari ass, and ap- 
peared once more as the Mtongi of a caravan. After a 
fortnight my companion had convalesced so rapidly 
that he announced himself ready to ride. The severe 
liver pains had disappeared, leaving behind them, how- 
ever, for a time, a harassing heart-ache and nausea, 
with other bilious symptoms, which developed them- 
selves when exposed to the burning sun of the several 
tirikeza. Gradually these sequelae ceased, sleep and 
appetite returned, and at K'hok'ho, in Ugogo, my com- 
panion had strength enough to carry a heavy rifle, and 
to do damage amongst the antelope and the guinea fowl. 
Our Goanese servants also, after suffering severely from 
fever and face-ache, became different men ; Valentine, 
blessed with a more strenuous diathesis, carried before 
him a crop like a well-crammed capon. As the porters 
left this country, and the escort approached their homes, 
there was a notable change of demeanour. All waxed 
civil, even to servility, grumbling ceased, and smiles 
mantled every countenance. Even Muzungu Mbaya, 
who in Unyamwezi had been the head and front of all 
offence, was to be seen in Ugogo meekly sweeping out 
our tents with a bunch of thorns. 

We left Hanga, the dirty cow-village, on the 13th 



Digitized by Google 



THE MU8TKR. 



241 



October. The seven short marches between that place 
and Tura occupied fifteen days, a serious waste of time 
and cloth, caused by the craving of the porters for their 
homes. It was also necessary to march with prudence, 
collisions between the party and the country-people, 
who are unaccustomed to see the articles which they 
most covet carried out of the country, were frequent : 
in fact Ave flew to arms about every second day, and 
after infinite noise and chatter, we quitted them to boast 
of the deeds of " derring do," which had been consigned 
to the limbo of things uncreate by the faineance of the 
adversary. At Eastern Tura, where we arrived on the 
28 th October, a halt of six days was occasioned by the neces- 
sity of providing and preparing food, at that season scarce 
and dear, for the week's march through the Fiery Field. 
The caravan was then mustered, when its roll appeared 
as follows. We numbered in our own party two Euro- 
peans, two Goanese, Bombay with two slaves — the 
child-man Nasibu and the boy-giant Maktubu — the 
bull-headed Mabruki, Nasir, a half-caste Mazrui Arab, 
who had been sent with mc by the Arabs of Kazch to 
save his morals, and Tauh'ki, a Msawahili youth, who 
had taken service as gun-carrier to the coast: they 
formed a total of 10 souls. Said bin Salim was accom- 
panied by 12 — the charmers Halimah and Zawada, his 
five children, and a little gang of five fresh captures, 
male and female. The Baloch, 12 in number, had 15 
slaves and 1 1 porters, composing a total of 38. The 
sons of Ramji, and the ass-drivers under Kidogo their 
leader, were in all 24, including their new acquisitions. 
Finally 68 Wanyamwezi porters, carrying the outfit and 
driving the cattle, completed the party to 152 souls. 
On the 3rd November, the caravan issuing from Tura 

VOL. II. u 



Digitized by Google 



'24-2 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



plunged manfully into the Fiery Field, and after seven 
marches in as many days, halted for breath and forage at 
Jiwe la Mkon, the Hound Stone. A few rations having 
been procured in its vicinity, we resumed our way on 
the 12th November, and in two days exchanged, with a 
sensible pleasure, the dull expanse of dry brown busli and 
brushwood, dead thorn-trees, and dry Nullahs, for the 
fertile red plain of Mdaburu. After that point began the 




Jiwc la Mkca, the Rouud Roclc. 

transit of Ugogo, where 1 had been taught to expect acci- 
dents : they resolved themselves, however, into nothing 
more than the disappearance of cloth and beads in inordi- 
nate quantities. We were received by Magomba, the 
Sultan of Kanyenyc, with a charge of magic, for which 
of course it was necessary to pay heavily. The Wan- 
yamwezi porters seemed even more timid on the down- 
journey than on the up-march. They slank about like 
curs, and the fierce look of a Mgogo boy was enough 



CONVERSATION IN EAST AFRICA. 243 

to strike a general terror. Twanigana, when safe in 
the mountains of Usagara, would frequently indulge 
me in a dialogue like the following, and it may serve as 
a specimen of the present state of conversation in East 
Africa : — 

" The state, Mdula ?" (i.e. Abdullah, a word unpro- 
nounceable to Negroid organs.) 

" The state is very ! (well) and thy state?" 

" The state is very! (well) and the state of Spikka ? 
(my companion)." 

" The state of Spikka is very ! (well.)" 

" We have escaped the Wagogo (resumes Twanigana), 
white man 0 ! " 

" We have escaped, 0 my brother ! " 

" The Wagogo are bad." 

" They are bad." 

"The W'agogo are very bad." 

" They are very bad." 

" The Wagogo are not good." 

" They are not good." 

" The Wagogo are not at all good." 

" They are not at all good." 

" I greatly feared the Wagogo, who kill the Wanyara- 
wezi." 

" Exactly so 1 " 

" But now I don't fear them. I call them s and 

• s, and I would fight the whole tribe, white man 0 !" 

" Truly so, 0 my brother ! " 

And thus for two mortal hours, till my ennui turned 
into marvel. Twanigana however was, perhaps, in 
point of intellect somewhat below the usual standard of 
African young men. Older and more experienced was 
Muzungu Mbaya, and I often listened with no small 

R 2 



Digitized by Google 



244 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

amusement to the attempts made by the Baloch to im«- 
press upon this truly African mind a respect for their 
revelation. Gul Mohammed was the missionary of the 
party: like Moslems generally, however, his thoughts 
had been taught to run in one groove, and if disturbed 
by startling objections, they were all abroad. Similarly 
I have observed in the European old lady, that on such 
subjects all the world must think with her, and I have 
been suspected of drawing the long-bow when describing 
the worship of gods with four arms, and goddesses with 
two heads. 

Muzungu Mbaya, as the old hunks calls himself, 
might be sitting deeply meditative, at the end of the 
march, before the fire, warming his inner legs, smoking 
his face, and ever and anon casting pleasant glances at 
a small black earthen pipkin, whence arose the savoury 
steam of meat and vegetables. A concatenation of ideas 
induces Gul Mohammed to break into his favourite 
theme. 

" And thou, Muzungu Mbaya, thou also must die ! " 

" Ugh ! ugh ! " replies the Muzungu personally offended, 
" don't speak in that way ! Thou must die too." 

"It is a sore thing to die," resumes Gul Mohammed. 

" Hoo ! IIoo !" exclaims the other, "it is bad, very bad, 
never to wear a nice cloth, no longer to dwell with one's 
wife and children, not to eat and drink, snuff, and smoke 
tobacco. Hoo ! Hoo ! it is bad, very bad ! " 

" But we shall eat," rejoins the Moslem, " the flesh of 
birds, mountains of meat, and delicate roasts, and drink 
sugared water, and whatever we hunger for." 

The African's mind is disturbed by this tissue of con- 
tradictions. He considers birds somewhat low feeding, 
roasts he adores, he contrasts mountains of meat with 
his poor half-pound in pot, he would sell himself for 



Digitized by Google 



MUZUXGU MBAYA'S IRREVERENCE. 



•245 



sugar; but again he hears nothing of tobacco; still he 
takes the trouble to ask 
"Where, 0 my brother?" 

" There," exclaims Gul Mohammed, pointing to the 
skies. 

This is a " chokepear" to Muzungu Mbaya. The dis- 
tance is great, and he can scarcely believe that his 
interlocutor has visited the firmament to see the provi- 
sion ; he therefore ventures upon the query, 

" And hast thou been there, 0 my brother ?" 

" Astaghfar ullah (I beg pardon of Allah)! " ejaculates 
Gul Mohammed, half angry, half amused. " What a 
mshenzi (pagan) this is! No, my brother, I have not ex- 
actly been there, but my Mulungu (Allah) told my Apos- 
tle*, who told his descendants, who told my father and 
mother, who told me, that when we die we shall go to 
a Shamba (a plantation), where " 

" Oof!" grunts Muzungu Mbaya, " it is good of you to 
tell us all this Upumbafu (nonsense) which your mother 
told you. So there are plantations in the skies ? " 

" Assuredly," replies Gul Mohammed, who expounds 
at length the Moslem idea of paradise to the African's 
running commentary of "Nenda we!" (be off!), Mama-e! 
(0 my mother!) and " Tumbanina," which may not be 
translated. 

Muzungu Mbaya, who for the last minute has been 
immersed in thought, now suddenly raises his head ; 
and, with somewhat of a goguenard air, inquires : 

" Well then, my brother, thou knowest all things ! 

* Those who translate Rasul, meaning, literally, " one sent," by prophet 
instead of apostle, introduce a notable fallacy into the very formula of 
Moslem faith. Mohammed never pretended to prophecy in our sense of 
foretelling future events. 



Digitized by Google 



246 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



answer me, is thy Mulungu black like myself, white 
like this Muzungu, or whity-brown as thou art ? " 

Gul Mohammed is fairly floored: he ejaculates sundry 
la haul ! to collect his wits for the reply, — 

" Verily the Mulungu hath no colour." 

" To-o-oh ! Tuh ! " exclaims the Muzunga, contorting 
his wrinkled countenance, and spitting with disgust 
upon the ground. He was now justified in believing 
that he had been made a laughing-stock. The mountain 
of meat had, to a certain extent, won over his better 
judgment : the fair vision now fled, and left him to the 
hard realities of the half-pound. He turns a deaf ear 
to every other word ; and, devoting all his assiduity to 
the article before him, he unconsciously obeys the 
advice which many an Eastern philosopher has incul- 
cated to his disciples — 

M Hold fust the hour, though fools say nay, 

The spheres revolve, they bring thee sorrow ; 
The wise enjoys his joy to-day, 

The fool shall joy his joy to-morrow. M 

The transit of Ugogo occupied three weeks, from 
the 14 th of November to the 5 th of December. In 
Kanyenye we were joined by a large down-caravan of 
Wanyamwezi, carrying ivories ; the musket-shots which 
announced the conclusion of certain brotherly ties 
between the sons of Ramji and the porters, sounded in 
my ears like minute-guns announcing the decease of 
our hopes of a return to the coast vi& Kilwa. At 
Kanyenye, also, we met the stout Msawahili Abdullah 
bin Nasib, alias Kisesa, who was once more marching 
into Unyarawezi : he informed me that the slaughter of 
Salim bin Nasir, the Bu-Saidi, and the destruction of 
the Rubeho settlements, after the murder of a porter, 
had closed our former line through Usagara. He 
also supplied me with valuable tea and sugar, and 



Digitized by Google 



THE OFFICIAL WIGGING. 



my companion with a quantity of valueless, or perhaps 
misunderstood, information, which I did not deem 
worth sifting. On the 6th of December, arrived at 
our old ground in the Ugogi Dhun, we were greeted 
by a freshly-arrived caravan, commanded by Jumali 
bin Mbwana and his two brothers, half-caste Hindi or 
Indian Moslems, from Mombasah. 

The Hindis, after receiving and returning news with 
much solemnity, presently drew forth a packet of letters 
and papers, which as usual promised trouble. This time, 
however, the post was to produce the second manner 
of annoyance — official "wigging," — the first being 
intelligence of private misfortune. Imprimis, came a 
note from Captain Rigby, the newly-appointed successor 
to Lieut.-Col. Hamerton at Zanzibar, and that name was 
not nice in the nostrils of men. Secondly, the following 
pleasant announcement. I give the whole letter : 

Dear Burton, — Go ahead! Vogcl and Macguire 
dead — murdered. Write often to Yours truly, N. S. 

And thirdly came the inevitable official w\g. 

Convinced, by sundry conversations with Arabs and 
others at Suez and Aden, during my last overland journey 
toIndia,andby the details supplied to me by a naval officer 
who was thoroughly conversant with the Red Sea, that, 
in consequence of the weakness and insufficiency of the 
squadron then employed, slavery still flourished, and that 
the numerous British subjects and proteges were inade- 
quately protected, I had dared, after arrival at Zanzibar, 
privately to address on the 15th of December, 1856, a 
letter upon the subject to the secretary of the Royal 
Geographical Society. It contained an "Account of 
Political Affairs in the Red Sea," — to quote the words 
of the paper, and expressed a hope that it might be 
"deemed worthy to be transmitted to the Court of 



248 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Directors, or to the Foreign Office."* The only acknow- 
ledgment which I received, was the edifying information 
that the Secretary to Government, Bombay, was directed 
by the Right Honourable the Governor in Council, 
Bombay, to state that my " want of discretion and due 
regard for the authorities to whom I am subordinate, has 
been regarded with displeasure by the Government." 

This was hard. I have perhaps been Quixotic enough 
to attempt a suggestion that, though the Mediterranean 
is fast becoming a French lake, by timely measures the 
Red Sea may be prevented from being converted into a 
Franco-Russo-Austrian lake. But an Englishman in 
these days must be proud, very proud, of his nation, and 
withal somewhat regretful that he was not born of some 
mighty mother of men — such as Russia and America — 
who has not become old and careless enough to leave 
her bairns unprotected, or cold and crusty enough to 
reward a little word of wisdom from her babes and 
sucklings with a scolding or a buffet. 

The sore, however, had its salve. The official wig 
was dated the 23rd of July, 1857. Posts are slow 
in Africa. When received on the 5th of December, 
1858, it was accompanied by a copy of a Bombay News- 
paper, which reported that on the 30th of June, 1858, 
" a massacre of nearly all the Christians took place at 
Juddah, on the Red Sea," and that "it was apprehended 
that the news from Juddah might excite the Arab 
population of Suez to the commission of similar out- 
rages." 

At Ugogi, which, it will be remembered, is considered 
the half-way station between Unyanyembe and the 
coast, the sons of Ramji and the porters detained us 
for a day, declaring that there was a famine upon the 

* The whole correspondence, with its reply and counter-reply, are printed 
in Appendix. 



Digitized by Google 



THE K I RANG A WAN A ROUTE. 249 



Mukondokwa road which wc had previously traversed. 
At the same time they warned us that we should find 
the great chief, who has given a name to the Kiringa- 
wana route, an accomplished extortioner, and one 
likely to insist upon our calling upon him in person. 
• Having given their ultimatum, they would not recede 
from it ; for us, therefore, nothing remained but to make 
a virtue of necessity. We loaded on the 7th of De- 
cember, and commenced the passage of the Usagara 
mountains by the Kiringawana line. 

I must indent upon the patience of the reader by a 
somewhat detailed description of this southern route, 
which is separated from the northern by a maximum 
interval of forty-three miles. The former being the 
more ancient, contains some settlements like Maroro 
and Kisanga, not unknown by report to European geo- 
graphers. It is preferred by down-caravans, who have 
no store of cloth to be demanded by the rapacious 
chiefs : the up-country travellers, who have asses, must 
frequent the Mukondokwa, on account of the severity 
of the passes on the Kiringawana. 

The Kiringawana numbers nineteen short stages, 
which may be accomplished without hardship in twelve 
days, at the rate of about five hours per diem. Pro- 
visions are procurable in almost every part, except when 
the Warori are "out;" and water is plentiful, if not 
good. Travel is rendered pleasant by long stretches 
of forest land without bush or fetid grass. The prin- 
cipal annoyances are the thievish propensities of the 
natives and the extortionate demands of the chief. A 
minor plague is that of mosquitoes, that haunt the rushy 
banks of the hill rivulets, some of which are crossed 
nine or ten times in the same day ; moreover, the steep 
and slippery ascents and descents of black earth and 



Digitized by Google 



250 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



mud, or rough blocks of stone, make the porters un- 
willing to work. 

Breaking ground at 6 a.m. on the 7th December, we 
marched to Murundusi, the frontier of Usagara and 
Uhehe. The path lay over a rolling thorny jungle 
with dottings of calabash at the foot of the Rubcho - 
mountains, and lumpy outliers falling on the right of 
the road. After three hours' inarch, the sound of the 
horses announced the vicinity of a village, and the 
country opening out, displayed a scene of wonderful 
fertility, the effect of subterraneous percolations from 
the highlands. Nowhere are the tamarind, the syca- 
more, and the calabash, seen in such perfection ; of 
unusual size also are the perfumed myombo and the 
mkora, the myongo, the ndabi, the chamvya, with its 
edible yellowish-red berries, and a large sweet-smelling 
acacia. Amidst these piles of verdure, troops of par- 
roquets, doves, jays, and bright fly-catchers, find a home, 
and frequent flocks and herds, a resting-place beneath 
the cool shade. The earth is still sprinkled with " black- 
jacks," the remains of trees which have come to an 
untimely end. In the fields near the numerous villages 
rise little sheds to shelter the guardians of the crops, 
and cattle wander over the commons or unreclaimed 
lands. Water, which is here pure and good, lies in pits 
from fifteen to twenty feet deep, staged over with tree 
trunks, and the people draw it in large shallow buckets, 
made of gourds sewn together and strengthened with 
sticks. Towards the evening, a cold east-wind brought 
up with it a storm of thunder and rain, which was 
pronounced by the experts to be the opening of the 
rainy monsoon in Usagara. 

The next day led us over an elevated undulation 
cut by many jagged watercourses, and still flanked by 



Digitized by Google 



SETTLEMENTS OF RUDI. 251 

the outlying masses which fall westward into the waste 
of Mgunda M'khali. After an hour's march, we turned 
abruptly eastwards, and crossing a rugged stony fork, 
presently found a dwarf basin of red soil which sup- 
plied water. The Wahehe owners of the land have a 
chronic horror of the Warori ; on sighting our peaceful 
caravan, they at once raised the war-cry, and were 
quieted only by the certainty that we were even more 
frightened than they were. At Kinganguku, the night 
was again wild and stormy; in fact, after leaving 
Ugogi, we were regularly rained upon till we had 
crossed the Mountains. 

On the 9th December, we marched in six hours from 
Kinyanguku to Rudi, the principaldistrict of Uhehe. 
It was an ascent plunging into the hills, which, however, 
on this line are easy to traverse, compared with those of 
the northern route ; the paths were stony and rugged, 
and the earth was here white and glaring, there of a 
dull red colour. Water pure and plentiful was found in 
pits about fifteen feet deep, which dented the sole of 
a picturesque Fiumara. The people assembled to stare 
with the stare pertinacious ; they demanded large prices 
for their small reserves of provisions, but they sold 
tobacco at the rate of two or three cakes, each weigh- 
ing about one pound and a half, for a shukkah. 

Passing from the settlements of Rudi, on the next 
morning we entered a thorn jungle, where the handi- 
work of the fierce Warori appeared in many a shell of 
smoke-stained village. We then crossed two Fiumaras 
exactly similar to those which attract the eye in the 
Somali country, broad white sandy beds, with high stiff 
earth-banks deeply water-cut, and with huge emerald- 
foliaged trees rising from a hard bare red plain. After 
a short march of three hours, we pitched under a 



Digitized by Google 



852 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

tamarind, and sent our men abroad to collect pro- 
visions. Tobacco was cheap, as at Rudi, grain and milk, 
whether fresh or sour, were expensive, and two shukkahs 
were demanded for a lamb or a young goat. The 
people of Mporota are notorious pilferers. About noon- 
tide a loud " hooroosh " and the scampering of spear- 
men over the country announced a squabble; presently 
our people reappeared driving before them a flock 
which they had seized in revenge for a daring attempt 
at larceny. I directed them to retain one tine specimen 
. — the lex ialionis is ever the first article of the penal 
code in the East — and to return the rest. Notwith- 
standing these energetic measures, the youth Tautiki 
awaking in the night with a shriek like one affected by 
nightmare, found that a Mhehe robber had snatched his 
cloth, and favoured by the shades had escaped with im- 
punity. The illness of Said bin Salim detained us for 
a day in this den of thieves. 

The 12th December carried us in three hours from 
Mporota to Ikuka of Uhehe. The route wound over red 
steps amongst low stony hills, the legs of the spider- 
like system, and the lay of the heights was in exceeding 
confusion. Belted by thorny scrub and forests of wild 
fruit trees — some edible, others poisonous — were several 
villages, surrounded by fields, especially rich in ground- 
nuts. Beyond Ikuka the road entered stony and 
rugged land, with a few sparse cultivations almost 
choked by thick bushy jungle ; the ragged villages con- 
tained many dogs, and a few peculiarly hideous human 
beings. Thence it fell into a fine Fiumara, with pure 
sweet water in pools, breaking the surface of loose white 
sand ; upon the banks, red soil, varying from a few 
inches to 20 feet in depth, overlay bands and lines of 
rounded pebbles, based on beds of granite, schiste, and 



Digitized 



TO ARMS. 



sandstone. After ascending a hill, we fell into a second 
watercourse, whose line was almost choked with wild 
and thorny vegetation, and we raised the tents in time 
to escape a pitiless pelting, which appeared to spring 
from a gap in the southern mountains. The time oc- 
cupied in marching from Ikuka to Inena of Usagara 
was four hours, and, as usual in these short stages, 
there was no halt. 

Two porters were found missing on the morning of the 
14th December, — they had gone for provisions, and had 
slept in the villages, — moreover, heavy clouds hanging 
on the hill-tops threatened rain : a Tirikeza was there- 
fore ordered. At 11 a.m. Ave set out over rises, falls, 
and broken ground, at the foot of the neighbouring 
highlands which enclose a narrow basin,- the seat of vil- 
lages and extensive cultivation. Small cascades flashing 
down the walls that hemmed us in showed the copious- 
ness of the last night's fall. After five hours' heavy 
marching, we forded a rapid Fiumara, whose tall banks 
of stiff red clay, resting upon tilted-up strata of green- 
stone, enclosed a stream calf-deep, and from 10 to 12 
feet broad. At this place, called Giuyindo, provisions 
were hardly procurable; consequently the caravan, as 
was its wont on such occasions, quarrelled for disport, 
and the Baloch, headed by " Gray-beard Musa," began 
to abuse and to beat the Pagazis. 

The morning of the 15th December commenced with 
a truly African scene. The men were hungry, and 
the air was chill. They prepared, however, to start 
quietly betimes. Suddenly a bit of rope was snatched, 
a sword flashed in the air, a bow-horn quivered with 
nocked arrow, and the whole caravan rushed franti- 
cally with a fearful row to arms. As no one dissuaded 
the party from " fighting it out," they apparently bc- 



Digitized by Google 



254 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

came friends, and took up their loads. My companion 
and I rode quietly forward : scarcely, however, had we 
emerged from the little basin in which the camp had 
been placed, than a terrible hubbub of shouts and yells 
announced that the second act had commenced After 
a few minutes, Said bin Salim came forward in trem- 
bling haste to announce that the Jemadar had again 
struck a Pagazi, who, running into the Nullah, had 
thrown stones with force enough to injure his assailant, 
consequently that the Baloch had drawn their sabres and 
had commenced a general massacre of porters. Well un- 
derstanding this misrepresentation, we advanced about 
a mile, and thence sent back two of the sons of Ramji 
to declare that we would not be delayed, and that if 
not at once followed, we would engage other porters at the 
nearest village. This brought on a denouement: pre- 
sently the combatants appeared, the Baloch in a high 
state of grievance, the Africans declaring that they 
had not come to fight but to carry. I persuaded 
them both to defer settling the business till the evening, 
when both parties well crammed with food listened 
complacently to that gross personal abuse, which, in 
these lands, represents a reprimand. 

Resuming our journey, we crossed two high and 
steep hills, the latter of which suddenly disclosed to the 
eye the rich and fertile basin of Maroro. Its principal 
feature is a perennial mountain stream, which, descend- 
ing the chasm which forms the northern pass, winds slug- 
gishly through the plain of muddy black soil and patches 
of thick rushy grass, and diffused through watercourses 
of raised earth, covers the land with tobacco, holcus, 
sweet-potato, plantains, and maize. The cereals stood 
five feet high, and were already in ear : according to 
the people, never less than two, and often three and 



Digitized by 




Digitized by Google 



Digitized by Google 



Digitized by Google 



THE BASIN OF MARORO. 



255 



four crops are reaped during the year. This hill-girt 
district is placed at one month's march from the coast. 
At the southern extremity, there is a second opening 
like the northern, and through it the " River of Ma- 
roro " sheds into the Rwaha, distant, in direct line two 
marches west with southing. 

Maroro, or Malolo, according to dialect, is the " Ma- 
rorrer town" of Lt. Hardy, (Transactions of the 
Bombay Geographical Society, from Sept. 1841 to May 
1844,) who, in 1811 — 12, was dispatched with Capt. 
Smce by the Government of Bombay to collect infor- 
mation at Kilwa and its dependencies, and the East 
African coast generally. Mr. Cooley (Inner Africa Laid 
Open, p. 56) writes the word Marora, and explains it to 
mean "trade:" the people, however, ignore the derivation. 
It is not a town, but adistrict, containing as usual on this 
line a variety of little settlements. The confined basin 
is by no means a wholesome locality, the air is warm 
and " muggy," the swamp vegetation is fetid, the mos- 
quitos venomous, and the population, afflicted with 
fevers and severe ulceration, is not less wretched and 
degraded than the Wak'hutu. Their habitations are 
generally Tembe, but small and poor, and their fields 
are dotted with dwarf platforms for the guardians of 
the crops. Here a cow costs twelve cloths, a goat three, 
whilst two fowls are procurable for a shukkah. Maroro 
is the westernmost limit of the toutersfrom the Mriina; 
there are seldom less than 150 muskets present, and 
the Wasagara have learned to hold strangers in horror. 

In these basins caravans endeavour, and are forced 
by the people, to encamp upon the further end after 
marching through. At the end of a short stage of 
three hours we forded three times the river bed, a muddy 
bottom, flanked by stiff rushes, and encamped under a 
Mkamba tree, above and to windward of the fetid 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



swamp. The night was hot and rainy, clouds of mos- 
quitos rose from their homes below, and the cynhyaenas 
were so numerous that it was necessary to frighten 
them away with shots. The labour of laying in pro- 
visions detained us for a day at Maroro. 

On the 17th December we left the little basin 
by its southern opening, which gradually winds east- 
ward. The march was delayed by the distribution of 
the load of a porter who had fled to the Warori. After 
crossing a fourth rise, the road fell into the cultivated 
valley of the Mwega River. This is a rush-girt stream 
of pure water, about 20 feet broad, and knee-deep at 
the fords in dry weather; its course is S.W. to the 
stream of Maroro. Like the Mukondokwa, it spreads 
out, except where dammed by the correspondence of 
the salient and the re-entering angles of the hill spurs. 
The road runs sometimes over this rocky and jungly 
ground, horrid with thorn and cactus, fording the 
stream, where there is no room for a path, and at other 
times it traverses lagoon-like backwaters, garnished 
with grass, rush, and stiff shrubs, based upon sun- 
cracked or miry beds. After a march of four hours we 
encamped in the Mwega Basin, where women brought 
down grain in baskets: cattle were seen upon the 
higher grounds, but the people refused to sell milk or 
meat. 

The next stage was Kiperepeta ; it occupied about 2 
hours 30 min. The road was rough, traversing the 
bushy jungly spurs on the left bank of the rushy narrow 
stream ; in many places there were steps and ladders of 
detached blocks and boulders. At last passing through 
a thick growth, where the smell of jasmine loads the air, 
we ascended a steep and rugged incline, whose summit 
commanded a fine back view of the Maroro Basin. A 
shelving counterslopc of earth deeply cracked and cut 



Digitized by Google 



BASIN OF KISASGA. 



257 



with watercourses led us to the encamping-ground, a 
red patch dotted with tali calabashes, and boasting a 
few pools of brackish water. We had now entered the 
land of grass-kilts and beehive huts, built for defence 
upon the ridges of the hills: whilst cactus, aloe, and 
milk-bush showed the diminished fertility of the soil. 
About Kiperepeta it was said a gang of nearly 400 
touters awaited with their muskets the arrival of cara- 
vans from the interior. 

On the 19th December, leaving Kiperepeta, we toiled 
up a steep incline, cut by the sinuated channels of water- 
courses, to a col or pass, the water-parting of this line 
in Usagara : before south-westerly, the versant thence- 
forward trends to the south-east. Having topped the 
summit, we began the descent along the left bank of 
a mountain burn, the Rufita, which, forming in the 
rainy season a series of rapids and cascades, casts its 
waters into the Yovu, and eventually into the Rwaha 
River. The drainage of the hill-folds cuts, at every re- 
entering angle, a ragged irregular ditch, whose stony 
depths are impassable to heavily-laden asses. After a 
toilsome march of three hours, we fell into the basin of 
Kisanga, which, like others on this line, is an enlarged 
punchbowl, almost surrounded by a mass of green hills, 
cone rising upon cone, with tufted cappings of trees, and 
long lines of small haycock-huts ranged along the 
acclivities and ridge-lines. The floor of the basin is 
rough and uneven ; a rich cultivation extends from the 
hill-slopes to the stream which drains the sole, and 
fine trees, amongst which are the mparamusi and the 
sycomore, relieve the uniformity of the well-hoed fields. 
Having passed through huts and villages, where two 
up-caravansof Wanyamwezi were halted, displaying and 
haggling over the cloths intended as tribute to the 

VOL. II. S 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Sultan Kiringawana, we prudently forded the Yovu, and 
placed its bed between ourselves and the enemy. The 
Yovu, which bisects the basin of Kisanga from N. to S. 
and passes by the S.E. into the Rwaha, was then about 




Kur.ta lam in Lsagaia. 



four feet deep ; it flowed down a muddy bed laced with 
roots, and its banks, whence a putrid smell exhaled, were 
thick lines of sedgy grass which sheltered myriads of 
mosquitos. Ascending an eminence to the left of the 
stream, we obtained lodging?, and at once proceeded to 
settle kuhonga with the chief, Kiringawana. 

The father, or, according to others, the grandfather of 
the present chief, a Mnyamwezi of the ancient Wakala- 
ganza tribe, first emigrated from his home in Usagozi, 
and, being a mighty elephant-hunter and a powerful 
wizard, he persuaded by arts and arms the Wasagara, 
who allowed him to settle amongst tliem, to constitute 
him their liege lord. The actual Kiringawana, having 
spent his heir-apparent days at Zanzibar, returned to 
Kisanga on the death of his sire, and reigned in his 



THE CIIIEF KIRIXGAWASA. 250 

stead. His long residence among the Arabs has so far 
civilised him that he furnishes his several homes com- 
fortably enough ; he receives his tributary-visitors with 
ceremon}', affects amenity of manner, clothes his short, 
stout, and sooty person in rainbow-coloured raiment, 
carries a Persian blade t and is a cunning diplomatist in 
the art of choosing cloth. 

On the day of arrival I was visited by Msimbiri, the 
heir-apparent — kingly dignity prevented Kiringawana 
wading the Yovu, — who gave some information about 
the Rwaha river, and promised milk. The 20th of 
December was expended in the palaver about " dash." 
After abundant chaffering, the chief accepted from the 
Expedition, though passing through his acres on the 
return-march, when presents are poor, three expensive 
coloured cloths, and eight shukkah of domestics and 
Kaniki ; wondering the while that the wealthy Muzungu 
had neglected to reserve for him something more 
worthy of his acceptance. He returned a fat bullock, 
which was instantly shot and devoured. In their indo- 
lence the caravan-men again began to quarrel; and 
Wulaydi, a son of Ramji, speared a porter, an offence for 
which he was ordered, if he failed to give satisfaction for 
the assault, to be turned out of camp. A march was 
anticipated on the next day, when suddenly, as the moon 
rose over the walls of the basin, a fine bonfire on the 
neighbouring hill and a terrible outcry announced an 
accident in the village occupied by the sons of Ramji. 
Muinyi Buyuni had left in charge of the hearth the 
object of his affections, a fine strapping slave-girl, whom 
for certain reasons he expected to sell for a premium at 
Zanzibar, and she had made it over to some friend, who 
probably had fallen asleep. The hut was soon in flames, 
— in these lands fires are never extinguished, — and the 

s a 



Digitized by Google 



200 



THE LAKE KEG ION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



conflagration had extended to the nearer hovels, con- 
suming the cloth, grain, and furniture of the inmates. 
Fortunately, the humans and the cattle escaped ; but a 
delay was inevitable. The elder who owned the chief 
hut demanded only eighty-eight cloths, one slave, 
thirteen Fundo of beads, and other minor articles : — a 
lesser sum would have purchased the whole household. 
His cupidity was restrained by Kiringawana, who 
named as indemnity thirty cloths, here worth thirty 
dollars, which I gave with extreme unwillingness, pro- 
mising the sons of Ramji, who appeared rather to enjoy 
the excitement, that they should pay for their careless- 
ness at Zanzibar. 

During the second day's halt, I attempted to obtain 
from Kiringawana a permission to depart from the 
beaten track. The noble descent of this chief gives him 
power over the guides of the Wanyamwezi caravans. 
In consequence of an agreement with the Diwans of the 
Mrima, he has lately closed the direct route to Kilwa, 
formerly regularly traversed, and he commands a little 
array of touters. He returned a gracious reply, which 
in East Africa, however, means no gracious intentions. 

Resuming our march on the 22nd of December, we 
descended from the eminence into the basin of the 
Yovu River, and fought our way through a broad 
" Wady," declining from east to west, with thick lines 
of tree and bush down the centre, and everywhere else 
an expanse of dark and unbroken green, like a plate of 
spinach. Passing along the southern bank amongst 
wild Annonas and fine Palmyras, over a good path 
where there was little mud, we presently ascended 
rising ground through an open forest, of the rainbow 
hues before described, where sweet air and soft filmy 
shade formed, whilst the sun was low and the breath 



Digitized by 



ruiiembf:. 



201 



of the morning was pure and good, most enjoyable 
travelling. After about five hours we descended into 
the basin of the Ruhembe rivulet, which seems to be 
the " Rohambi people " of Mr. Cooley's Itinerary. (Geo- 
graphy of N'yassi, p. 22.) The inhabitants are Wasa- 
gara; they supply travellers with manioc, grain, and 
bitter egg-plants, of a scarlet colour resembling tomatos. 
Cultivation flourishes upon the hill-sides and in the 
swampy grounds about the sole of the basin, which is 
bisected by a muddy and apparently stagnant stream 
ten feet broad. We pitched tents in the open central 
space of a village, and met a caravan of Wasawahili 
from Zanzibar, who reported to Said bin Salim the gra- 
tifying intelligence that, in consequence of a rumour of 
his decease, his worthy brother, Ali bin Salim, had 
somewhat prematurely laid violent hands upon his goods 
and chattels. 

The porters would have halted on the next day, but 
the excited Said exerted himself manfully ; at 2 p.m. 
we were once more on the road. Descending from the 
village-eminence, we crossed in a blazing sun the fetid 
Ruhembe ; and, after finding with some difficulty the 
jungly path, we struck into a pleasant forest, like that 
traversed on the last march. It was cut by water- 
courses draining south, and at these places it was ne- 
cessary to dismount. At 6 p.m. appeared a clearing, 
with sundry villages and clumps of the Mgude tree, 
whose tufty summits of the brightest green, gilt by the 
last rays of the sun, formed a lovely picture. The 
porters would have rested at this spot, but they were 
forced forwards by the sons of Ramji. Presently we 
emerged upon the southern extremity of the Makata 
Plain, a hideous low level of black vegetable earth, 
peaty in appearance, and, bearing long puddles of dark 

8 3 



Digitized by Google 



262 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFEICA. 



scummy and stagnant rain-water, mere horse-ponds, 
with the additional qualities of miasma and mosquitos. 
The sons of Ramji had determined to reach the 
Makata Nullah, still distant about two hours. I called 
a halt in favour of the fatigued Pagazi, who heard it 
with pleasure, and sent to recall Wulaydi, Shehe, and 
Nasibu, who were acting bell-wethers. The worthies 
returned after a time, and revenged themselves by pa- 
rading, with many grimaces, up and down the camp. 

On the morning of the 24th of December, we re- 
sumed the transit of the Makata Plain, and crossed 
the tail of its nullah. It was here bone-dry ; conse- 
quently, had we made it last night, the thirsty caravan 
would have suffered severely. Ensued a long slope 
garnished with the normal thin forest ; in two places 
the plots of ashes, which denote the deaths of wizard 
and witch, apprised us that we were fast approaching 
benighted K'hutu. A skeleton caravan of touters, com- 
posed of six muskets and two flags, met us on the way. 
Presently we descended into the basin of Kikoboga, 
which was occupied in force by gentry of the same de- 
scription. After wading four times the black, muddy, and 
rushy nullah, which bisects the lake, we crossed a 
lateral band of rough high ground, whence a further 
counter-slope bent down to a Khambi in a diminutive 
hollow, called Mwimbi. It was the ideal of a bad 
encamping ground. The kraal stood on the bank of 
a dark, miry water at the head of a narrow gap, 
where heat was concentrated by the funnel-shaped hill- 
sides, and where the dark ground, strewed with rotting 
grass and leaves, harboured hosts of cock-roaches, beetles, 
and mosquitos. The supplies, a little grain, poor sugar- 
cane, good wild vegetables, at times plantains, were 
distant, and the water was vile. Throughout this 
country, however, the Wasagara cultivators, fearing 



Digitized Dy Google 



MABItUKI PASS. 



2G3 



plunder should a caravan encamp near their crops, 
muster in force; the traveller, therefore, must not 
unpack except at the kraals on either edge of the cul- 
tivation. 

The dawn of Christmas Day, 1858, saw us toiling 
along the Kikoboga River, which we forded four times. 
We then crossed two deep affluents, whose banks were 
thick with fruitless plantains. The road presently 
turned up a rough rise, from whose crest began the 
descent of the Mabruki Pass. This col may be divided into 
two steps: the first winds along a sharp ridge-line, a chain 
of well-forested hills, whose heights, bordered on both 
sides by precipitous slopes of earth overgrown with 
thorns and thick bamboo-clumps, command an extensive 
view of spur and subrange, of dhun and champaign, 
sprinkled with villages and dwarf cones, and watered by 
streamlets that glisten like lines of quicksilver in the 
blue-brown of the hazy distant landscape. Ensues, after 
a succession of deep and rugged watercourses, with 
difficult slopes, the second step ; a short but sharp steep 
of red earth, corded with the tree-roots that have been 
bared by the heavy rains. Beyond this the path, 
spanning rough ground at the hill-base, debouches upon 
the course of a streamlet flowing southwards from the 
last heights of Usagara to the plains of Uziraha in 
K'hutu. 

The bullock reserved for the occasion having been 
lost in Uhehe, I had ordered the purchase of half a 
dozen goats wherewith to celebrate the day; the porters, 
however, were too lazy to collect them. My companion 
and I made good cheer upon a fat capon, which acted as 
roast-beef, and a mess of ground-nuts sweetened with 
sugar-cane, which did duty as plum-pudding. The 
contrast of what was with what might be now, however, 

s 4 



Digitized by Google 



264 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA- 



suggested only pleasurable sensations ; long odds were 
in favour of our seeing the Christmas Day of 1859, 
compared with the chances of things at Msene on the 
Christinas Day of 1857. 

From Uziraha sixteen hours distributed into fourteen 
marches conducted us from Uziraha, at the foot of the 
Usagara mountains, to Central Zungomero. The districts 
traversed were Eastern Mbwiga, Marundwe, and Kireng- 
we. The road again realises the European idea of Africa 
in its most hideous and grotesque aspect. Animals are 
scarce amidst the portentous growth of herbage, not a 
head of black cattle is seen, flocks and poultry are rare, 
and even the beasts of the field seem to flee the land. 
The people admitted us into their villages, whose 
wretched straw-hovels, contrasting with the luxuriant 
jungle which hems them in, look like birds' nests torn 
from the trees : all the best settlements, however, were 
occupied by parties of touters. At the sight of our 
passing caravan the goatherd hurried off his charge, 
the peasant prepared to rush into the grass, the women 
and children slunk and hid within the hut, and no one 
ever left his home without a bow and a sheath of 
arrows, tvhose pitchy-coloured bark-necks denoted a 
fresh layer of poison. 

We entered Zungomero on the 29th of December, 
after sighting on the left the cone at whose base rises the 
Maji ya W'heta, or Fontaine qui bouille. The village 
on the left bank of the Mgeta, which we had occupied 
about eighteen months before, had long been level with 
the ground ; we were therefore conducted with due 
ceremony into another settlement on the right of the 
stream. An army of black musketeers, in scanty but 
various and gaudy attire, came out to meet us, and 
with the usual shots and shouts conducted us to the 



Digitized by 



PROPOSED MARCH UPON KILWA. 



265 



headman's house, which had already been turned into 
a kind of barrack by these irregulars. They then stared 
as usual for half-a-dozen consecutive hours, which done 
they retired to rest. 

After a day's repose, sending for the Kirangozi, and 
personally offering a liberal reward, I opened to him 
the subject then nearest my heart, namely, a march 
upon Kilwa. This proceeding probably irritated the 
too susceptible Said bin Salim, and caused him, if not 
actually to interfere, at any rate to withhold all aid 
towards furthering the project. Twanigana, after a 
palaver with his people, returned with a reply that 
he himself was willing, but that his men would not 
leave the direct track. Their reasons were various. 
Some had become brothers with the sons of Ramji, and 
expected employment from their " father." Others 
declared that it would be necessary to march a few miles 
back, which was contrary to their custom, and said that 
they ought to have been warned of the intention before 
passing the Makutaniro, or junction of the two roads. 
But none expressed any fear, as has since been asserted, 
of being sold off into slavery at Kilwa. Such a de- 
claration would have been ridiculous. Of the many 
Wauyamwezi caravans that have visited Kilwa none 
has ever yet been seized and sold ; the coast-people are 
too well acquainted with their own interests to secure 
for themselves a permanent bad name. Seeing, how- 
ever, that energetic measures were necessary to open the 
road, I allowed them two days for consideration, and 
warned them that after that time Posho or rations should 
be withdrawn. 

On the next day I was privately informed by the 
Mnfumo or parson of the caravan, that his comrades 
intended to make a feint of desertion, and then to return, 



Digitized by Google 



266 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

if they found us resolved not to follow them. The 
reverend gentleman's sister-in-law, who had accom- 
panied us from Unyamwezi as cook and concubine to 
Seedy Bombay, persuaded our managing man that there 
was no danger of the porters traversing Uzaramo, 
without pay, escort, or provisions. On the 1st January, 
1859, however, the gang rose to depart. I sent for the 
Kirangozi, who declared that though loth to leave us 
he must head his men : in return for which semi-fidelity 
I made him name his own reward ; he asked two hand- 
some cloths, a Gorah or piece of domestics, and one 
Fundo of coral beads — it was double his pay, but I 
willingly gave it, and directed Said bin Salim to write 
an order to that effect upon Mr. Rush Ramji, or any 
other Hindu who might happen to be at Kaole. But I 
rejected the suggestion of my companion, who proposed 
that half the sum agreed upon in Unyanyembe as pay- 
ment to the porters — nine cloths each — should be given 
to them. In the first place, this donation would have 
been equivalent to a final dismissal. Secondly, the Arabs 
at Kazeh had warned me that it was not their custom 
to pay in part those who will not complete the journey 
to the coast ; and I could see no reason for departing 
from a commercial precedent, evidently necessary to 
curb the Africans' alacrity in desertion. 

On the day following the departure of the gang I 
set out to visit the Jetting Spring, and found when 
returning to the village shortly before noon that my com- 
panion had sent a man to recal the " Pagazi," who were 
said to be encamped close to the river, and to propose to 
them a march upon Mbuamaji. The messenger returned 
and reported that the Wanyamwezi had already crossed 
the river. Unwilling that the wretches should lose 
by their headstrongness, I at once ordered Said bin 



Digitized by Google 



DETAINED AT K'HUTU. 267 

Salim to mount ass and to bring back the porters by 
offers which they would have accepted. Some time 
afterwards, when I fancied that he was probably haran- 
guing the men, he came to me to say that he had not 
eaten and the sun was hot. With the view of shaming 
him I directed Kidogo to do the work, but as he also 
made excuses, Khamisi and Shehe, two sons of Ramji, 
were despatched with cloths to buy rations for the 
Pagazi, and, coute qui cotite, to bring them back. They 
set out on the 2nd January, and returned on the 7tli 
January, never having, according to their own account, 
seen the fugitives. 

This was a regrettable occurrence : it gave a handle 
to private malice under the specious semblance of 
public duty. But such events are common on the 
slave-path in Eastern Africa; of the seven gangs of 
porters engaged on this journey only one, an unusually 
small proportion, left me without being fully satisfied, 
and that one deserved to be disappointed. 

We were detained at K'hutu till the 20th January. 
The airiest of schemes were ventilated by Said bin Salim 
and my companion. Three of the Baloch eye-sores, the 
" Graybeard Mohammed," the mischief-maker Khuda- 
bakhsh, and the mulatto Jelai, were sent to the coast 
with letters, reports, and officials for Zanzibar and 
home. The projectors then attempted to engage 
Wak'hutu porters, but after a long palaver, P'hazi 
Madenge, the principal chief of Uziraha, who at first 
undertook to transport us in person to Dut'humi, de- 
clared that he could not assist us. It was then pro- 
posed to trust for porterage to the Wazaramo ; that 
project also necessarily fell to the ground. Two feasible 
plans remained : either to write to the coast for a new 
gang, or to await the transit of some down-caravan. 



Digitized by Google 



268 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

As the former would have caused an inevitable delay I 
preferred the latter, justly thinking that during this, 
the travelling- season, we should not long be detained. 

On the 11th January, 1859, a large party of Wan- 
yanwezi, journeying from the interior to the coast, 
bivouacked in the village. I easily persuaded Muhembe, 
the Mtongi or leader, to make over to me the services 
of nine of his men, and lest the African mind might 
conceive that in dismissing the last gang cloth or beads 
had been an object, I issued to these new porters seventy- 
two cloths, as much as if they had carried packs from 
Unyanwezi to the coast. On the 14th January, 1859, 
we received Mr. Apothecary Frost's letters, drugs, and 
medical comforts, for which we had written to him in 
July 1857. The next day saw us fording the warm 
muddy waters of the Mgeta, which was then 100 feet 
broad : usually knee-deep, it rises after a few showers 
to the breast, and during the heavy rains which had 
lately fallen it was impassable. We found a little 
village on the left bank, and there we sat down patiently 
to await, despite the trouble inflicted by a host of dimi- 
nutive ants, who knew no rest by day or night, the arrival 
of another caravan to complete our gang. The medical 
comforts so tardily received from Zanzibar fortified us, 
however, to some extent against enemies and incon- 
veniences ; we had aether-sherbet and aether-lemonade, 
formed by combining a wine-glass of the spirit with a 
quant suff. of citric acid ; and when we wanted a 
ehange the villagers supplied an abundance of Pombe 
or small beer. 

On the 17th Jan. a numerous down-caravan entered 
the settlement which we occupied, and it proved after 
inquiry to be one of which I had heard often and much. 
The chiefs, Sulayman bin Rashid el Riami, a coast-Arab, 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAND OF UBEXA. 



269 



accompanied by a Msawahili, Mohammed bin Gharib, 
and others, called upon me without delay, and from 
them I obtained a detailed account of their interesting 
travel. 

The merchants had left the coast for Ubena in June, 
1857, and their up-march had lasted six months. They 
set out with a total of 600 free men and slaves, armed 
with 150 guns, hired on the seaboard for eight to ten 
dollars per head, half being advanced : they could not 
persuade the Wanyamwezi to traverse these regions. 
The caravan followed the Mbuamaji trunk-road west- 
ward as far as Maroro in Usagara, thence deflecting 
southwards it crossed the Rwaha River, which at the 
ford was knee-deep. The party travelled through the 
Wahehe and the Wafaji, south of and far from the 
stream, to avoid the Warori, who hold both banks. The 
sultan of these freebooters, being at war with the Wa- 
bena, would not have permitted merchants to pass on 
to his enemies, and even in time of peace he fines them, 
it is said, one half of their property for safe-conduct. On 
the right hand of the caravan, or to the south from 
Uhehe to Ubena, was a continuous chain of highlands, 
pouring affluents across the road into the Rwaha River, 
and water was procurable only in the beds of these 
nullahs and fiumaras. If this chain be of any consider- 
able length, it may represent the water-parting between 
the Tanganyika and the Nyassa Lakes, and thus divide 
by another and a southerly lateral band the great De- 
pression of Central Africa. The land was dry and 
barren ; in fact, Ugogo without its calabashes. Scarcely 
a blade of grass appeared upon the whity -brown soil, 
and the travellers marvelled how the numerous herds 
obtained their sustenance. The masika or rainy mon- 
soon began synchronously with that of Unyamwe^i, but 



Digitized by Google 



^70 



THE LAKE BEG10XS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



it lasted little more than half its period in the north. 
In the sparse cultivation, surrounded by dense bush, 
they were rarely able to ration oftener than once a 
week. They were hospitably received by Kimanu, the 
Jyari or Sultan of Ubena. His people, though fierce 
and savage, appeared pleased by the sight of strangers. 
The Wabena wore a profusion of beads, and resembled 
in dress, diet, and lodging the Warori ; they were brave 
to recklessness, and strictly monarchical, swearing by 
their chief. The Warori, however, were the cleaner 
race ; they washed and bathed, whilst the Wabena used 
the same fluid to purify teeth, face, and hands. 

At Ubena the caravan made considerable profits in 
slaves and ivory. The former, mostly captured or kid- 
napped, were sold for four to six fundo of beads, and, 
merchants being rare, a large stock was found on hand. 
About 800 were purchased, as each Pagazi or porter 
could afford one at least. On the ret urn- march, how- 
ever, half of the property deserted. The ivory, which 
rather resembled the valuable article procured at Ka- 
ragwah than the poor produce of Unyanyembe, sold at 
35 to 70 fundo of yellow and other coloured beads per 
frasilah of 35 lbs. Cloth was generally refused, and 
the kitindi or wire armlets were useful only in purchasing 
provisions. 

On its return the caravan, following for eighteen stages 
the right bank of the Rwaha River, met with an un- 
expected misfortune. They were nigh ting in a broad 
fi umara called Bonye, a tributary from the southern 
highlands to the main artery, when suddenly a roar 
and rush of waters fast approaching and the cries 
of men struck them with consternation. In the con- 
fusion which ensued 150 souls, for the most part slaves, 
and probably ironed or corded together, were carried 



Digitized by Google 



THE WAEORI. 



271 



away by the torrent, and the porters lost a great part 
of the ivory. A more dangerous place for encampment 
can scarcely be imaginod, yet the East African every- 
where prefers it because it is warm at night, and the 
surface is soft. In the neighbourhood of the Rwaha 
they entered the capital district of Mui' Gumbi, the 
chief, after a rude reception on the frontier, where the 
people, mistaking them for a plundering party of Wa- 
bena, gathered in arms to the number of 4000. When 
the error was perceived, the VVarori warmly welcomed 
the traders, calling them brothers, and led them to the 
quarters of their Sultan. Mui' Gumbi was apparently 
in his 70th year, a man of venerable look, tall, burly, 
and light-coloured, with large ears, and a hooked nose 
like a " moghrebi." His sons, about thirty in number, 
all resembled him, their comeliness contrasting strongly 
with the common clansmen, who are considered by their 
chiefs as slaves. A tradition derives the origin of this 
royal race from Madagascar or one of its adjoining 
islets. Mui* Gumbi wore a profusion of beads, many 
of them antiquated in form and colour, and now un- 
known in the market of Zanzibar : above his left elbow 
he had a lumpy bracelet of ivory, a decoration appro- 
priated to chieftains. The Warori expressed their 
surprise that the country had not been lately visited by 
caravans, and, to encourage others, the Sultan offered 
large gangs of porters without pay to his visitors. 
These men never desert ; such disobedience would cost 
them their lives. From the settlement of Mui' Gumbi 
to the coast the caravan travelled without accident, but 
under great hardships, living on roots and grasses for 
want of means to buy provisions. 

The same caravan-traders showed me divers speci- 
mens of the Warori, and gave me the following descrip- 



Digitized by Google 



'272 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



tion, which tallied with the details supplied by Snay bin 
Amin and the Arabs of Kazch. 

The Warori extend from the western frontier of the 
Wahehe, about forty marches along principally the 
northern bank of the Ilwaha River, to the meridian 
of Eastern Unyanyernbe. They are a semi-pastoral 
tribe, continually at war with their neighbours. They 
never sell their own people, but attack the Wabena, the 
Wakimbu, the Wahehe, the Wakonongo, and the races 
about Unyangwira, and drive their captives to the sea, 
or dispose of them to the slavers in Usagara. The 
price is of course cheap ; a male adult is worth from 
two to six shukkah merkani. Some years ago a large 
plundering party, under their chief Mbangera, attacked 
Sultan Kalala of the Wasukuma ; they were, however, 
defeated, with the loss of their leader, by Kafrira of 
Kivira, the son-in-law of Kalala. They also ravaged 
Unyanyernbe, and compelled the people to take refuge 
on the summit of a natural rock-fortress between Kazeh 
and Yombo, and they have more than once menaced the 
dominions of Fundikira. Those mighty boasters the 
Wagogo hold the Warori in awe; as the Arabs say, they 
shrink small as a cubit before foes fiercer than themselves. 
The Warori have wasted the lands of Uhehe and Unyang- 
wira, and have dispersed the Wakimbu and the Wamia 
tribes. They have closed the main-road from the seaboard 
by exorbitant blackmail and charges for water, and about 
five years ago they murdered two coast Arab traders 
from Mbuamaji. Since their late defeat by the Watuta, 
they have been comparatively quiet. When the E. 
African Expedition, however, entered the country they 
had just distinguished themselves by driving the herds 
from Ugogi, and thus prevented any entrance into their 
country from that district. Like the pastoral races 



Digitized by Google 



- 



THE WARORI. 



273 



generally of this portion of the peninsula, the object of 
their raids is cattle : when a herd falls into their hands, 
they fly at the beasts like hyaenas, pierce them with 
their assegais, hack off huge slices, and devour the meat 
raw. 

The Warori are small and shrivelled black savages. 
Their diminutive size is doubtless the effect of scanty 
food, continued through many generations: the Sultans, 
however, are a peculiarly fine large race of men. The 
slave-specimens observed had no distinguishing mark 
on the teeth ; in all cases, however, two short lines were 
tattooed across the hollow of the temples. The male 
dress is a cloak of strung beads, weighing ten or twelve 
pounds, and covering the shoulders like a European 
cape. Some wind a large girdle of the same material 
round the waist. The women wear a bead-kilt extending 
to the knees, or, if unable to afford it, a wrapper of skin. 
The favourite weapon is a light, thin, and pliable asse- 
gai ; they carry a sheath of about a dozen, and throw 
them with great force and accuracy. The bow is un- 
known. They usually press to close quarters, each man 
armed with a long heavy spear. Iron is procured in con- 
siderable quantities both in Ubena and Urori. The habi- 
tations are said to be large Tembe, capable of containing 
400 to 500 souls. The principal articles of diet are 
milk, meat, and especially fattened dog's flesh — of which 
the chiefs are inordinately fond, — maize, holcus, and 
millet. Rice is not grown in these arid districts. They 
manage their intoxication by means of pombe made of 
grain and the bhang, which is smoked in gourd-pipes ; 
they also mix the cannabis with their vegetable food. 
The "Warori are celebrated for power of abstinence; 
they will march, it is said, six days without eating, and 
they require to drink but once in the twenty-four 

VOL. II. T 



Digitized by Google 



274 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



hours. In one point they resemble the Bedouins of 
Arabia : the chief will entertain his guests hospitably 
as long as they remain in his village, but he will 
plunder them the moment they leave it. 

On the 19th January the expected down-caravan 
of Wanyamwezi arrived, and I found no difficulty in 
completing our carriage — a fair proof, be it remarked, 
that I had not lost the confidence of the people. The 
Mtongi, however, was, or perhaps pretended to be, ill ; 
we were, therefore, delayed for another day in a place 
which had no charms for us. 

The 21st January enabled us to bid adieu to Zungo- 
mero and merrily to take the foothpath way. We 
made Konduchi on the 3rd February, after twelve marches, 
which were accomplished in fifteen days. There was 
little of interest or adventure in this return-line, of 
which the nine first stations had already been visited 
and described. As the Yegea mud, near Dut'humi, 
Was throat-deep, we crossed it lower down : it was still 
a weary trudge of several miles through thick slabby 
mire, which admitted a man to his knees. In places, 
after toiling under a sickly sun, we crept under the 
tunnels of thick jungle-growth veiling the Mgazi and 
other streams ; the dank and fetid cold caused a deadly 
sensation of faintness, which was only relieved by a 
glass of aether-sherbet, a pipe or two of the strongest 
tobacco, and half an hour's repose. By degrees 
it was found necessary to abandon the greater part 
of the remaining outfit and the luggage : the Wany- 
amwezi, as they neared their destination, became 
even less manageable than before, and the sons of 
Kamji now seemed to consider their toils at an end. 
On the 25th January we forded the cold, strong, yellow 
stream of the Mgeta, whose sandy bed had engulfed my 



Digitized by 



REPORTS OP DAGGER. 



275 



elephant-gun, and we entered with steady hearts the 
formerly dreaded Uzaramo. The 27th January saw us 
pass safely by the village where M. Maizan came 
to an untimely end. On that day Ramazan and 
Salman, children of Said bin Salim, returned from 
Zanzibar Island, bringing letters, clothing, and pro- 
visions for their master, who, by way of small re- 
venge, had despatched them secretly from Zungomero. 
On the 28th January we reached the Makutaniro or 
anastomosis of the Kaole and Mbuamaji roads, where on 
our ingress the Wazaramo had barred passage in force. 
No one now ventured to dispute the way with well- 
armed paupers. That evening, however, the Mtongi 
indulged his men with " maneno," a harangue. Re- 
ports about fatal skirmishes between the Wazaramo and 
a caravan of Wanyamwezi that had preceded us had 
flown about the camp ; consequently the Mtongi recom- 
mended prudence. " There would be danger to-mor- 
row—a place of ambuscade— the porters must not rise 
and be off too early nor too late— they must not hasten 
on, nor lag behind— they had with them Wazungu, and 
in case of accidents they would lose their name ! " The 
last sentence was frequently repeated with ever in- 
creasing emphasis, and each period of the discourse was 
marked by a general murmur, denoting attention. 

As I have said, there was no danger. Yet on the 
next day a report arose that we were to be attacked in 
a dense thicket— where no archer, be it observed, could 
bend his bow — a little beyond the junction of the Mbu- 
amaji road with that of Konduchi, our destination. 
In the afternoon Said bin Salim, with important coun- 
tenance, entered my tent and disclosed to me the doleful 
tidings. The road was cut off. He knew it. A great 
friend of his — a slave — had told him so. He remem- 



Digitized by Google 



27f> 



TIIK LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



bered warning me that such was the case five days ago. 
I must either delay till an escort could be summoned 
from the coast, or — I must fee a chief to precede me 
and to reason with the enemy. It was in vain to storm, 
I feared that real obstacles might be placed by the timid 
and wily little man in our way, and I consented most 
unwillingly to pay two coloured cloths, and one ditto of 
blue-cotton, as hire to guard that appeared in the 
shape of four clothless varlets, that left us after the first 
quarter of an hour. The Baloch, headed by the Jemadar, 
knowing that all was safe, distinguished themselves on 
that night, for the first time in eighteen months, by 
uttering the shouts which prove that the Oriental sol- 
dier is doing "Zam," i.e. is on the qui vive. When re- 
quested not to make so much noise they grumbled that 
it was for our sake, not for theirs. 

On the 30th January our natives of Zanzibar 
screamed with delight at the sight of the mango-tree, 
and pointed out to one another, as they appeared in 
succession, the old familiar fruits, jacks and pine-applcs, 
limes and cocoes. On the 2nd February we greeted, 
with doffed caps and with three times three and one 
more, as Britons will do on such occasions, the kindly 
smiling face of our father Neptune as he lay basking in 
the sunbeams between earth and air. Finally, the 3rd 
February 1859 saw us winding through the poles deco- 
rated with skulls — they now grin in the lloyal College of 
Surgeons, London — a negro Temple-bar which pointed 
out the way into the little maritime village of Konduchi. 

Our entrance was attended with the usual ceremony, 
now familiar to the reader : the warmen danced, shot, 
and shouted, a rabble of adults, youths, and boys crowded 
upon us, the fair sex lulliloo'd with vigour, and a 
general procession conducted their strangers to the hut 



Digitized by 



PARTING AT KOXDUCHI. 



277 



swept, cleaned, and garnished for us by old Premji, the 
principal Banyan of the head-quarter village, and there 
stared and laughed till they could stare and laugh no 
more. 

On the evening of the same day an opportunity 
offered of transferring the Jemadar, the Baloch, and my 
bete noire, Kidogo, to their homes in Zanzibar Island, 
which lies within sight of Konduchi : as may be imagined, 
I readily availed myself of it. After begging powder 
and et cceteras to the last, the monocular insisted upon 
kissing my hand, and departed weeping bitterly with the 
agony of parting. By the same boat I sent a few lines 
to H. M. consul, Zanzibar, enclosing a list of neces- 
saries, and requesting that a Battela, or coasting-craft, 
might be hired, provisioned, and despatched without 
delay, as I purposed to explore the Delta and the un- 
known course of the Rufiji River. In due time Said bin 
Salim and his " children," including the fair Halimah 
and Zawada — the latter was liberally rewarded by me for 
services rendered to my companion — and shortly after- 
wards the sons of llamji, or rather the few who had 
not deserted or lagged behind, were returned to their 
master, and were, I doubt not, received with all the 
kindness which their bad conduct deserved. 

We were detained at Konduchi for six days between 
the 3rd and 10th February. There is nothing inter- 
esting in this little African village port : instead of 
describing it, I will enter into a few details concerning 
African matters of more general importance. 



i 3 



Digitized by Google 



The Ivory Porter, the Cloth Porter, nnd Woman, in Usagara. 



CHAP. XVIII. 

VILLAGE LIFB IN EAST AFRICA. 

The assertion may startle the readers preconceived 
opinions concerning the savage state of Central Africa 
and the wretched condition of the slave races, negroid 
and negro ; but is not less true that the African is in 
these regions superior in comforts, better dressed, fed, 
and lodged, and less worked than the unhappy Ryot of 
British India. His condition, where the slave trade 
is slack, may, indeed, be compared advantageously with 
that of the peasantry in some of the richest of Euro- 
pean countries. 

The African rises with the dawn from his couch of 
cow's hide. The hut is cool and comfortable during 
the day, but the barred door impeding ventilation at 
night causes it to be close and disagreeable. The hour 
before sunrise being the coldest time, he usually kindles 
a fire, and addresses himself to his constant companion, 



Digitized by Google 




Digitized by Google 



HABITS OF EAST AFRICANS. 



279 



the pipe. When the sun becomes sufficiently powerful, 
he removes the reed-screen from the entrance, and 
issues forth to bask in the morning-beams. The villages 
are populous, and the houses touching one another 
enable the occupants, when squatting outside and front- 
ing the central square, to chat and chatter without 
moving. About 7 a.m., when the dew has partially dis- 
appeared from the grass, the elder boys drive the 
flocks and herds to pasture with loud shouts and sound- 
ing applications of the quarter-staff. They return only 
when the sun is sinking behind the western horizon. 
At 8 p.m. those who have provisions at home enter the 
hut to refection with ugali or holcus-porridge ; those 
who have not, join a friend. Pombe, when procurable, 
is drunk from the earliest dawn. 

After breaking his fast the African repairs, pipe in 
hand, to the Iwanza — the village " public," previously 
described. Here, in the society of his own sex, he will 
spend the greater part of the day, talking and laughing, 
smoking, or torpid with sleep. Occasionally he sits 
down to play. As with barbarians generally, gambling 
in him is a passion. The normal game is our " heads 
and tails," its implement a flat stone, a rough circle of 
tin, or the bottom of a broken pot. The more civilised 
have learned the " bao" of the coast, a kind of " tables," 
with counters and cups hollowed in a solid plank. 
Many of the Wanyamwezi have been compelled by this 
indulgence to sell themselves into slavery: after playing 
through their property, they even stake their aged 
mothers against the equivalent of an old lady in these 
lands, — a cow or a pair of goats. As may be imagined, 
squabbles are perpetual ; they are almost always, how- 
ever, settled amongst fellow-villagers with bloodless 
weapons. Others, instead of gambling, seek some em- 

T 4 



Digitized by Google 



280 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ployment which, working the hands and leaving the 
rest of the body and the mind at ease, is ever a favourite 
with the Asiatic and the African ; they whittle wood, 
pierce and wire their pipe-sticks — an art in which all 
are adepts — shave one another's heads, pluck out their 
beards, eyebrows, and eyelashes, and prepare and polish 
their weapons. 

At about 1 P.M. the African, unless otherwise em- 
ployed, returns to his hut to eat the most substantial 
and the last meal of the day, which has been cooked by 
his women. Eminently gregarious, however, he often 
prefers the Iwanza as a dining-room, where his male 
children, relatives, and friends meet during the most 
important hour of the twenty-four. With the savage 
and the barbarian food is the all-in-all of life : — food is 
his thought by day, — food is his dream by night. The 
civilised European, who never knows hunger or thirst 
without the instant means of gratifying every whim of 
appetite, can hardly conceive the extent to which his 
wild brother's soul is swayed by stomach ; he can 
scarcely comprehend the state of mental absorption in 
which the ravenous human animal broods over the car- 
case of an old goat, the delight which he takes in 
superintending every part of the cooking process, and 
the jealous eye with which he regards all who live better 
than himself. 

The principal articles of diet are fish and flesh, grain 
and vegetables; the luxuries are milk and butter, honey, 
and a few fruits, as bananas and Guinea-palm dates ; 
and the inebrients are pombe or millet-beer, toddy, and 
inawa or plantain-wine. 

Fish is found in the lakes and in the many rivers of 
this well- watered land; it is despised by those who can 
afford flesh, but it is a " godsend" to travellers, to 



Digitized by 



FOOD IN EAST AFRICA. 281 



slaves, and to the poor. Meat is the diet most prized ; 
it is, however, a luxury beyond the reach of peasantry, 
except when they can pick up the orts of the chiefs. 
The Arabs assert that in these latitudes vegetables cause 
heartburn and acidity, and that animal food is the most 
digestible. The Africans seem to have made the same 
discovery: a man who can afford it almost confines 
himself to flesh, and he considers fat the essential element 
of good living. The crave for meat is satisfied by eat- 
ing almost every description of living thing, clean or 
unclean ; as a rule, however, the East African prefers 
beef, which strangers find flatulent and heating. Like 
most people, they reject game when they can command 
the flesh of tame beasts. Next to the bullock the goat 
is preferred in the interior ; as indeed it is by the Arabs 
of Zanzibar Island; whereas those of Oman and of 
Western Arabia abandon it to the Bedouins. In this part 
of Africa the cheapest and vilest meat is mutton, and 
its appearance — pale, soft, and braxy — justifies the 
prejudice against it. Of late years it has become the 
fashion to eat poultry and pigeons ; eggs, however, are 
still avoided. In the absence of history and tradition, 
it is difficult to decide whether this aversion to eggs 
arises from an imported or an indigenous prejudice. 
The mundane egg of Hindoo mythology probably typified 
the physiological dogma "omne vivum ex ovo," and the 
mystic disciples would avoid it as representing the prin- 
ciple of life. In remote ages the prejudice may have ex- 
tended to Africa, although the idea which gave birth to 
it was not familiar to the African mind. Of wild flesh, the 
favourite is that of the zebra; it is smoked or jerked, 
despite which it retains a most savoury flavour. Of the 
antelopes a few are dcliciously tender and succulent ; 
the greater part are black, coarse, and indigestible. 



Digitized by Google 



282 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



One of the inducements for an African to travel is to 
afford himself more meat than at home. His fondness 
for the article conquers at times even his habitual im- 
providence. He preserves it by placing large lumps 
upon a little platform of green reeds, erected upon 
uprights about eighteen inches high, and by smoking it 
with a slow fire. Thus prepared, and with the addition 
of a little salt, the provision will last for several days, 
and the porters will not object to increase their loads by 
three or four pounds of the article, disposed upon a 
long stick like gigantic kababs. They also jerk their 
stores by exposing the meat upon a rope, or spread upon 
a flat stone, for two or three days in the sun ; it loses 
a considerable portion of nutriment, but it packs into 
a conveniently small compass. This jerked meat, when 
dried, broken into small pieces, and stored in gourds or 
in pots full of clarified and melted butter, forms the 
celebrated travelling provision in the East called kavur- 
meh : it is eaten as a relish with rice and other boiled 
grains. When meat is not attainable and good water 
is scarce, the African severs one of the jugulars of a 
bullock and fastens upon it like a leech. This custom 
is common in Karagwah and the other northern king- 
doms, and some tribes, like the Wanyika, near Mombasah, 
churn the blood with milk. 

The daily food of the poor is grain, generally holcus, 
maize, or bajri (panicum); wheat is confined to the 
Arabs, and rice grows locally, as in the Indian penin- 
sula. The inner Africans, like the semi-civilised Arabs 
of Zanzibar, the Wasawahili, and the Wamrima, ignore 
the simple art of leavening bread by acidulated whey, 
sour bean-paste, and similar contrivances universally 
practised in Oman. Even the rude Indian chapati or 
scone is too artificial for them, and they have not 



Digitized by 



PREPARATIONS OF MILK. 



283 



learned to toast grain. Upon journeys the African 
boils his holcus unhusked in an earthen basin, drinks 
the water, and devours the grain, which in this state is 
called masango ; at home he is more particular. The 
holcus is either rubbed upon a stone — the mill being 
wholly unknown — or pounded with a little water in a 
huge wooden mortar ; when reduced to a coarse powder, 
it is thrown into an earthen pot containing boiling water 
sufficient to be absorbed by the flour; a little salt, when 
procurable, is added ; and after a few stirrings with a 
ladle, or rather with a broad and flat-ended stick, till 
thoroughly saturated, the thick mass is transferred into 
a porous basket, which allows the extra moisture to 
leak out. Such is the ugali, or porridge, the staff of 
life in East Africa. 

During the rains vegetables are common in the 
more fertile parts of East Africa; they are within 
reach of the poorest cultivator. Some varieties, espe- 
cially the sweet potato and the mushroom, are sliced 
and sun-dried to preserve them through the year. 
During the barren summer they are boiled into a kind 
of broth. 

Milk is held in high esteem by all tribes, and some 
live upon it almost exclusively during the rains, when 
cattle find plentiful pasture. It is consumed in three 
forms — " mabichi," when drunk fresh ; or converted 
into mabivu (butter-milk), the rubb of Arabs ; or in 
the shape of mtindi (curded milk), the laban of Arabia, 
and the Indian dahi. These Africans ignore the dudh- 
pinda, or ball of fresh-milk boiled down to hardness by 
evaporation of the serum, as practised by the Indian 
halwai (confectioner) ; the indurated sour-clot of Arabia j 
called by the Bedouins el igt, and by the Persians the 
Baloch, and the Sindhians kurut, is also unknown ; and 



Digitiz 



28 i 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



they consider cheese a miracle, and use against it their 
stock denunciation, the danger of bewitching cattle. 
The fresh produce, moreover, has few charms as a poculcnt 
amongst barbarous and milk-drinking races : the Arabs 
and the Portuguese in Africa avoid it after the sun is 
high, believing it to increase bile, and eventually to 
cause fever : it is certain that, however pleasant the 
draught may be in the cool of the morning, it is by no 
means so much relished during the heat of the day. 
On the other hand, the curded milk is everywhere a 
favourite on account of its cooling and thirst-quenching 
properties, and the people accustomed to it from infancy 
have for it an excessive longing. It is procurable in 
every village where cows are kept, whereas that newly- 
drawn is generally half-soured from being at once 
stored in the earthen pots used for curding it. These 
East Africans do not, however, make their dahi, like 
the Somal, in lumps floating upon the tartest possible 
serum ; nor do they turn it, like the Arabs, with kid's 
rennet, nor like the Baloch with the solanaceous plant 
called panir. The best is made, as in India, by allow- 
ing the milk to stand till it clots in a pot used for the 
purpose, and frequently smoked for purity. Butter- 
milk is procurable only in those parts of the country 
where the people have an abundance of cattle. 

Butter is made by filling a large gourd, which acts 
as churn, with partially-soured milk, which is shaken 
to and fro : it is a poor article, thin, colourless, and 
tainted by being stored for two or three months, with- 
out preliminary washing, in the bark-boxes called 
vilindo. In the Eastern regions it is converted into 
ghee by simply melting over the fire : it is not boiled 
to expel the remnant of sour milk, impurities are not 
removed by skimming, and finally it becomes rancid 



Digitized brGoegle 



OIL AND BEER LN EAST AFRICA. 



•285 



and bitter by storing in pots and gourds which have 
been used for the purpose during half a generation. 
The Arabs attempt to do away with the nauseous taste 
by throwing into it when boiling a little water, with a 
handful of flour or of unpowdered rice. Westward of 
Unyamwezi butter is burned instead of oil in lamps. 

The common oil in East Africa is that of the karanga, 
bhuiphali, or ground-nut (Arachis hypoga?a) : when ghee 
is not procurable, the Arabs eat it, like cocoa-nut oil, 
with beans, manioc, sweet-potato and other vegetables. 
A superior kind of cooking is the "uto" extracted 
from the ufuta, sirnsim or sesamum, which grows 
everywhere upon the coast, and extends far into the 
interior. The process of pressing is managed by 
pounding the grain dry in a huge mortar ; when the 
oil begins to appear, a little hot water is poured in, and 
the mass is forcibly squeezed with huge pestles; all 
that floats is then ladled out into pots and gourds. 
The viscid chikichi (palm-oil) is found only in the 
vicinity of the Tanganyika Lake, although the tree 
grows in Zanzibar and its adjacent islets. Oil is ex- 
tracted from the two varieties of the castor-plant ; an J, 
in spite of its unsavoury smell, it is extensively used 
as an unguent by the people. At Unyanyetnbe and 
other places where the cucumber grows almost wild, the 
Arabs derive from its seed an admirable salad-oil, which 
in flavour equals, and perhaps surpasses, the finest 
produce of the olive. The latter tree is unknown in 
East Africa to the Arabs, who speak of it with a re- 
ligious respect, on account of the mention made of it 
in the Koran. 

In East Africa every man is his own maltster ; and 
the " Iwanzd," or public-house of the village, is the 
common brewery. In some tribes, however, fermentation 



Digitized by Google 



28G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



is the essential occupation of the women. The prin- 
cipal inebrient is a beer without hops, called pombe. 
This ttoto$ Qsios of the negro and negroid races dates 
from the age of Osiris : it is the buzah of Egypt and 
the farther East, and the merissa of the Upper Nile, 
the £C0ov and xythum of the West, and the oala or 
boyaloa of the Kafirs and the South African races. 
The taste is somewhat like soured wort of the smallest 
description, but strangers, who at first dislike it exceed- 
ingly, are soon reconciled to it by the pleasurable 
sensations to which it gives rise. Without violent 
action, it affects the head, and produces an agreeable 
narcotism, followed by sound sleep and heaviness in the 
morning- as much liked by the barbarian, to whom 
inebriation is a boon, as feared by the civilised man. 
Being, as the Arabs say, a "cold drink," causing 
hydrocele and rheumatism, it has some of the after- 
effects of gin, and the drunkard is readily recognised 
by his red and bleared eyes. When made thick with 
the grounds or sediment of grain, it is exceedingly 
nutricious. Many a gallon must be drunk by the 
veteran malt-worm before intoxication ; and individuals 
of both sexes sometimes live almost entirely upon 
pombe. It is usually made as follows : half of the 
grain — holcus, panicum, or both mixed — intended for 
the brew is buried or soaked in water till it sprouts ; 
it is then pounded and mixed with the other half, also 
reduced to flour, and sometimes with a little honey. The 
compound is boiled t wice or thrice in huge pots, strained, 
when wanted clear, through a bag of matting, and 
allowed to ferment : after the third day it becomes 
as sour as vinegar. The "togwa" is a favourite drink, 
also made of holcus. At first it is thick and sickly, 
like honeyed gruel ; when sour it becomes exceedingly 



Digitized by Google 



IXEBRIENTS. HONEY. 287 

heady. As these liquors consume a quantity of grain, 
they are ever expensive; the large gourdful never 
fetches less than two khete or strings of beads, and 
strangers must often pay ten khete for the luxury. 
Some years ago an Arab taught the Wanyamwezi to 
distil : they soon, however, returned to their favourite 
fermentation. 

The use of pombe is general throughout the country: 
the other inebrients are local. At the island and on 
the coast of Zanzibar tembo, or toddy, in the West 
African dialects tombo, is drawn from the cocoa-tree; and 
in places a pernicious alcohol, called mvinyo, is ex- 
tracted from it. The Wajiji and other races upon the 
Tanganyika Lake tap the Guinea-palm for a toddy, 
which, drawn in unclean pots, soon becomes acid and 
acrid as the Silesian wine that serves to mend the 
broken limbs of the poor. The use of bhang and 
datura-seed has already been alluded to. " Mawa," or 
plantain-wine, is highly prized because it readily intoxi- 
cates. The fruit when ripe is peeled and hand-kneaded 
with coarse green grass, in a wide-mouthed earthen 
pot, till all the juice is extracted : the sweet must is then 
strained through a cornet of plantain-leaf into a clean 
gourd, which is but partially stopped. To hasten fer- 
mentation a handful of toasted or pounded grain is 
added : after standing for two days in a warm room the 
wine is ready for drinking. 

The East Africans ignore the sparkling berille or 
hydromel of Abyssinia and Ilarar, and the mead of the 
Bushman race. Yet honey abounds throughout the 
country, and near the villages log-hives, which from 
their shape are called mazinga or cannons by the people, 
hang from every tall and shady tree. Bees also swarm 
in the jungles, performing an important part in the 



¦ 

Digitized by Google 



283 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



vegetable economy by inosculation or caprification, and 
the conveyance of pollen. Their produce is of two 
kinds. The eheaper resembles wasp-honey in Europe ; 
it is found in the forest, and stored in gourds. More 
than half-filled with dirt and wood-bark, it affords but 
little wax ; the liquid is thin and watery, and it has a 
peculiarly unpleasant flavour. The better variety, the 
hive-honey, is as superior to the produce of the jungle 
as it is inferior to that of India and of more civilised 
lands. It is tolerable until kept too long, and it 
supplies a good yellow wax, used by the Arabs to mix 
with tallow in the manufacture of "dips." The best 
honey is sold after the rains ; but the African hoards his 
store till it reddens, showing the first stage of fermen- 
tation: he will eat it after the second or third year, 
when it thins, froths, and becomes a rufous-brown 
fluid of unsavoury taste ; and he rarely takes the 
trouble to remove the comb, though the Arabs set him 
the example of straining the honey through bags of 
plantain-straw or matting. Decomposition, moreover, 
is assisted by softening the honcv over the fire to ex- 
tract the wax instead of placing it in the sun. The price 
varies from one to three cloths for a large gourdful. 
"When cheap, the Arabs make from it " honey-sugars " 
the material, after being strained and cleaned, is stored 
for two or three weeks in a cool place till surface-granu- 
lation takes place; the produce resembles in taste and 
appearance coarse brown sugar. The "siki," a vinegar 
of the country, is also made of one part honey and four 
of water, left for a fortnight to acetise : it is weak and 
insipid. Honey is the only sweetener in the country, 
except in the places where the sugar-cane grows, 
namely, the maritime and the Lakist regions. The 
people chew it, ignoring the simple art of extracting 



Digitized by 



WORK IN EAST AFRICA. 



269 



and inspissating the juice ; nor do they, like the natives 
of Usumbara, convert it into an inebrient. Yet sugar 
attracts them like flies; they clap their hands with 
delight at the taste ; they buy it for its weight of ivory; 
and if a thimbleful of the powder happen to fall upon 
the ground, they will eat an ounce of earth rather than 
lose a grain of it. 

After eating, the East African invariably indulges in 
a long fit of torpidity, from which he awakes to pass 
the afternoon as he did the forenoon, chatting, playing, 
smoking, and chewing " sweet-earth." Towards sunset 
all issue forth to enjoy the coolness : the men sit outside 
the Iwanzd, whilst the women and the girls, after fetch- 
ing water for household wants from the well, collecting 
in a group upon their little stools, indulge in the 
pleasures of gossipred and the pipe. This hour in the 
more favoured parts of the country is replete with 
enjoyment, which even the barbarian feels, though not 
yet indoctrinated into ajsthetics. As the hours of dark- 
ness draw nigh, the village doors are carefully closed, 
and, after milking his cows, each peasant retires to his 
hut, or passes his time squatting round the fire with his 
friends in the Iwanza. He has not yet learned the art 
of making a wick, and of filling a bit of pottery with 
oil. When a light is wanted, he ignites a stick of the 
oleaginous mtata, or msasd-tree — a yellow, hard, close- 
grained, and elastic wood, with few knots, much used 
in making spears, bows, and walking staves — which 
burns for a quarter of an hour with a brilliant flame. 
He repairs to his hard couch before midnight, and snores 
with a single sleep till dawn. For thorough enjoyment, 
night must be spent in insensibility, as day is in 
inebriety; and, though an early riser, he avoids the 

VOL. II. u 



Digitized by Google 



290 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

" early to bed," in order that he may be able to slumber 
through half the day. 

It is evident that these barbarians lead rather a 
" fast " life ; there are, however, two points that modify 
its evil consequences. The " damned distillation " is 
unknown, consequently they do not suffer from delirium 
tremens, its offspring. Their only brain-work is that 
necessitated by the simple wants of life, and by the 
unartificial style of gambling which they affect. 
Amongst the civilized, the peculiar state of the nervous 
system in the individual, and in society, the abnormal 
conditions induced by overcrowding in cities and towns, 
has engendered a cohort of dire diseases which the 
children of nature ignore. 

Such is the African's idle day, and thus every summer 
is spent. As the wintry rains draw nigh, the necessity 
of daily bread suggests itself. The peasants then leave 
their huts at 6 or 7 a.m., often without provision, which 
now becomes scarce, and labour till noon, or 2 p.m., 
when they return home, and find food prepared by the 
wife or the slave-girl. During the afternoon they 
return to work, and sometimes, when the rains are near, 
they are aided by the women. Towards sunset nil 
wend homewards in a body, laden with their implements 
of cultivation, and singing a kind of " dulce domum," 
in a simple and pleasing recitative. 

When the moon shines bright the spirits of the East 
African are raised like the jackal's, and a furious drum- 
ming and a droning chorus summon the maidens to 
come out and enjoy the spectacle of a dance. The 
sexes seldom perform together, but they have no 
objection to be gazed at by each other. Their style of 
saltation is remarkable only for the extreme gravity 
which it induces — at no other time does the East 



Digitized by Google 



MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



291 



African look so serious and so full of earnest purpose. 
Yet with all this though tfulness, " poor human nature 
cannot dance of itself." The dance has already been 
described as far as possible : as may be imagined, the 
African Thalia is by no means free from the reproach 
which caused Mohammed to taboo her to his fol- 
lowers. 

Music is at a low ebb. Admirable ti mists, and no 
mean tunists, the people betray their incapacity for 
improvement by remaining contented with the simplest 
and the most monotonous combinations of sounds. As in 
everything else, so in this art, creative talent is wanting. 
A higher development would have produced other 
results ; yet it is impossible not to remark the delight 
which they take in harmony. The fisherman will 
accompany his paddle, the porter his trudge, and the 
housewife her task of rubbing down grain, with song ; 
and for long hours at night the peasants will sit in a 
ring repeating, with a zest that never flags, the same 
few notes, and the same unmeaning line. Their style 
is the recitative, broken by a full chorus, and they 
appear to affect the major rather than the interminable 
minor key of the Asiatic. Their singing also wants 
the strained upper notes of the cracked- voiced Indian 
performer, and it ignores the complicated raga and 
ragini or Hindu modes, which appear rather the musical 
expression of high mathematics than the natural 
language of harmony and melody. 

The instruments of the East African are all of foreign 
invention, imported from various regions, Madagascar^ 
and the coast. Those principally in use are the fol- 
lowing. The zeze, or banjo, resembles in sound the 
monochord Arabian rubabah, the rude ancestor of the 
Spanish guitar. The sounding-board is a large hollow 

v 2 



Digitized by Google 



292 THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

gourd, open below; on the upper part, fastened by 
strings that pass through drilled holes, is a conical 
piece of gourd, cleft longitudinally to admit the arm or 
handle, which projects at a right angle. The arm is 
made of light wood, from 18 inches to 2 feet in length; 
the left-hand extremity has three frets formed by two 
notches, with intervals, and thus the total range is of 
six notes. A single string, made of 11 mondo," the 



1 2 3 4 




L Paddle in East Africa. 2. The Sange or Gourd. 3. Bellows. 4. Drum. 

6. Stool. C. The 7a,zg (guitar). 7. The D'hctc, or Kadctc. 



fibre of the mwale or raphia-palm, is tied to a knob of 
wood projecting from the dexter extremity of the 
handle, thence it passes over a bridge of bent quill, 
which for tuning is raised or depressed, and lastly it is 
secured round another knob at the end beyond the 
frets. Sometimes, to form a bass or drone, a second 



Digitized by Google 



MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



293 



string is similarly attached along the side of the arm, 
whilst the treble runs along the top. 

The kinanda, a prototype of the psaltery and harp, 
the lute and lyre, and much used by the southern races 
in the neighbourhood of Kilwa, is of two kinds. One is 
a shallow box cut out of a single plank, thirteen inches 
long by five or six in breadth, and about two inches in 
depth : eleven or twelve strings are drawn tightly over 
the hollow. The instrument is placed in the lap, and 
performed upon witli both hands. The other is a small 
bow-guitar, with an open gourd attached to the part 
about the handle : sometimes the bow passes through 
the gourd. This instrument is held in the left hand, 
whilst the "tocador" strikes its single cord with a 
thin cane-plectrum about one foot long. As in the 
zeze, the gourd is often adorned with black tattoo, 
or bright brass tacks, disposed in various patterns, 
amongst which the circle and the crescent figure con- 
spicuously. A third form of the kinanda appears to be 
a barbarous ancestor of the Grecian lyre, which, like 
the modern Nubian " kisirka," is a lineal descendant 
from the Egyptian oryx-horn lute with the transverse 
bar. A combination of the zeze and kinanda is made 
by binding a dwarf hollow box with its numerous 
strings to the open top of a large circular gourd, 
which then acts as a sounding-board. 

The wind-instruments are equally rude, though by 
no means so feeble as their rivals. The nai or sackbut 
of India, and the siwa, a huge bassoon of black wood, at 
least five feet long, are known only to the coast-people. 
The tribes of the interior use the d'hete or kidete, 
called by the Wasawahili zumari. It is literally the 
bucolic reed, a hollowed holcus-cane, pierced with four 
holes at the further end : the mouthpiece is not stopped 

u 3 



Digitized by Google 



294 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



in any way, and the instrument is played upon solely 
by the lips, a drone being sometimes supplied by the 
voice. Thus simple and ineffective, it has nevertheless 
a familiar sound to European cars. The barghumi is 
made by cutting an oblong hole, about the size of a 
man's nail, within two or three inches of the tip of a 
koodoo, an oryx, or a goat's horn, which, for effect and 
appearance, is sometimes capped with a bit of cane, 
whence projects a long zebra's or giraffe's tail. Like 
the det'he, it is played upon by the lips ; and without 
any attempt at stops or keys, four or five notes may be 
produced. Its sound, heard from afar, especially in the 
deep silence of a tropical night, resembles not a little 
the sad, sweet music of the French cor-de chasse ; and 
when well performed upon, it might be mistaken for a 
regimental bugle. There are smaller varieties of the bar- 
ghumi, which porters carry slung over the shoulder, 
and use as signals on the line of march. Another 
curious instrument is a gourd, a few inches in circum- 
ference, drilled with many little apertures : the breath 
passes through one hole, and certain notes are produced 
by stopping others with the fingers — its loud, shrill, 
and ear-piercing quavers faintly resemble the European 
" piccolo." The only indigenous music of the pastoral 
African — the Somal, for instance — is whistling, a 
habit acquired in youth when tending the flocks and 
herds. This " Mu'unzi " is soft and dulcet ; the ear, 
however, fails to detect in it either phrase or tune. For 
signals the East Africans practise the kik'horombwe, or 
blowing between the fore and the middle fingers with a 
noise like that of a railway whistle. The Wanyamwezi 
also blow over the edge of the hollow in a small ante- 
lope's horn, or through an iron tube ; and the Watuta 
are said to use metal-whistles as signals in battle. 
The drum is ever the favourite instrument with the 



Digitized by Google 



THE DBINKIXG BOUTS. 295 

African, who uses it as the alarum of war, the promise 
of mirth, the token of hospitality, and the cure of dis- 
eases: without drumming his life would indeed be a 
blank. The largest variety, called " ngoma ku," is the 
hollowed bole of a mkenga or other soft tree, with a 
cylindrical solid projection from the bottom, which holds 
it upright when planted in the ground. The instru- 
ment is from three to five feet in length with a diameter 
of from one to two feet : the outside is protected with a 
net-work of strong cord. Over the head is stretched a 
rough parchment made of calf s-skin ; and a cap of green 
hide, mounted when loose, and afterwards shrunken 
by exposure to fire, protects the bottom. It is vigour- 
ously beaten with the fists, and sometimes with coarse 
sticks. There are many local varieties of this instru- 
ment, especially the timbrel or tabret, which is about a 
foot long, shaped like an hour-glass or a double " dara- 
bukkah," and provided with a head of iguana-skin. The 
effect of tom-toming is also produced by striking hollow 
gourds and similar articles. The only cymbal is the 
upatu, a flat-bottomed brass pot turned upside down, 
and tapped with a bit of wood. The " sanje," a gourd 
full of pebbles, is much affected in parts of the country 
by women, children, and, especially, by the mganga or 
rain-maker; its use being that of the babe's rattle 
amongst Europeans. 

The insipidity of the African's day is relieved by fre- 
quent drinking bouts, and by an occasional hunt. For 
the former the guests assemble at early dawn, and take 
their seats in a circle, dividing into knots of three or 
four to facilitate the circulation of the bowl. The 
mwanddzi, or cup-bearer, goes round the assembly, 
giving scrupulous precedence to the chiefs and elders, 
who are also provided with larger vessels. The sonzo, 

u 4 



Digitized by Google 



2«)6 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



or drinking-cup, which also serves as a travelling can- 
teen, is made generally by the women, of a kind of grass 
called mavii, or of wild palm-leaf: the split stalks are 
neatly twisted into a fine cord, which is rolled up, be- 
ginning from the bottom, in concentric circles, each 
joined to its neighbour by a binding of the same mate- 
rial : it is sometimes stained and ornamented with red 
and black dyes. The shape when finished is a trun- 
cated cone, somewhat like a Turk's fez ; it measures 
about six inches in diameter by five in depth, and 
those of average size may contain a quart. This cup 
passes around without delay or heel-taps, and the 
topers stop occasionally to talk, laugh, and snuff, to 
chew tobacco, and to smoke bhang. The scene of 
sensuality lasts for three or four hours — in fact, till 
the pombe prepared for the occasion is exhausted, — 
when the carousers, with red eyes, distorted features, 
and the thickest of voices, stagger home to doze through 
the day. Perhaps in no European country are so 
many drunken men seen abroad as in East Africa. 
Women also frequently appear intoxicated ; they have, 
however, private " pombe," and do not drink with the 
men. 

The East African, who can seldom afford to gratify 
his longing for meat by slaughtering a cow or a goat, 
looks eagerly forward to the end of the rains, when the 
grass is in a fit condition for firing ; then, armed with 
bows and arrows, and with rungu or knobkerries, the 
villagers have a battue of small antelopes, hares, and 
birds. During the hot season also, when the waters 
dry up, they watch by night at the tanks and pools, 
and they thus secure the larger kinds of game. Ele- 
phants especially are often found dead of drought during 
the hot season ; they are driven from the springs 



-.oogle 



EXPEDIENTS FOR TAKING GAME. 297 

which are haunted by the hunters, and, according to 
the Arabs, they fear migrating to new seats where they 
would be attacked by the herds in possession. In many 
parts the huntsmen suspend by a cord from the trees 
sharpened blocks of wood, which, loosened by the 
animal's foot, fall and cause a mortal wound. This 
"suspended spear," sprung by a latch, has been described 
by a host of South African travellers. It has been 
sketched by Lieut. Boteler (" Narrative of a Voyage of 
Discovery to Africa and Arabia," chap, iv.) ; and Major 
Monteiro (" 0 Muata Cazerabe," chap, v.) ; and de- 
scribed by Mr. Galton, Mr. Gordon Cumming, and Dr. 
Livingstone (chap, xxviii.). Throughout Ugogo and 
upon the maritime regions large game is caught in pit- 
falls, here called mtego, and in India ogi: in some 
places travellers run the risk of falling into these traps. 
The mtego is an oblong excavation like a great grave, 
but decreasing in breadth below the surface of the 
ground and it is always found single, not in pairs as 
in South Africa. The site generally chosen is near 
water, and the hole is carefully masked with thin 
layers of small sticks and leaves. The Indian " sur- 
rounds " and the hopo or V-shaped trap of the Bakwcns 
are here unknown. The distribution of treasure-trove 
would seem to argue ancient partitions and lordships, 
and, in dividing the spoils of wild or tame animals, 
the chief claims, according to ancient right, the breast. 
This custom apparently borrowed by the Hebrews from 
Africa (Leviticus, chap. vii. 30, 31), is alluded to by 
almost all South- African travellers. 

The elephant roams in herds throughout the country, 
affecting the low grounds where stagnating water pro- 
duces a plentiful vegetation : with every human being 
its foe, and thousands living by its destruction, the 



Digitized by Google 



298 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



animal is far from becoming scarce ; indeed, the greatest 
number of footprints appeared near Chogwe and Tongwe, 
stations of Baloch garrisons close to the town of Pan- 
gani. The elephant hunt is with the African a solemn 
and serious undertaking. He fortifies himself with 
periapts and prophylactics given by the mganga, who 
also trains him to the use of his weapon. The elephant- 
spear resembles our boarding-pike rather than the light 
blunt arm employed in war ; it is about six feet long, 
with a broad tapering head cut away at the shoulders, 
and supported by an iron neck, which is planted in a 
thick wooden handle, the junction being secured by a 
cylinder of raw hide from a cow's tail passed over it, 
and shrunk on by drying: a specimen was deposited 
with the Royal Geographical Society. The spear is in- 
variably guarded by a mpigi or charm, the usual two bits 
of wood bound together with a string or strip of skin. 
It is not a little curious that the East African, though 
born and bred a hunter, is, unlike almost all barbarians, 
as skill-less as an European in the art of el asr, the 
" spoor " or " sign." 

The hunting-party, consisting of fifteen to twenty 
individuals, proceeds before departure to sing and dance, 
to drink and drum for a consecutive week. The women 
form line and perambulate the village, each striking an 
iron jembe or hoe with a large stone, which forms an 
appropriate accompaniment to the howl and the vigele- 
gele, " lullilooing," or trills of joy. At every step the 
dancer sways herself elephant-like from side to side, 
and tosses her head backwards with a violence threaten- 
ing dislocation of the atlas. The line, led by a fugle- 
woman by the right, who holds two jembe in one hand, 
but does not drum, stops facing every Arab house 
where beads may be expected, and performs the most 



Digitized by Google 



THE HUNTING PARTY. 



<2<)9 



hideous contortions, whirling the arms round the shoul- 
der-socket, kneeling, and imitating the actions of various 
animals. The labour done, the ladies apply to their 
porabe, and reappear after four or five hours with a tell- 
tale stagger and a looseness of limb which adds a peculiar 
charm to their gesticulations. The day concludes with 
a "fackeltanz" of remarkable grotesqueness. This 
merrymaking is probably intended as a consolation for 
the penance which the elephant-hunter's wife performs 
during the absence of her mate ; she is expected to 
abstain from good food, handsome cloth, and fumiga- 
tion : she must not leave the house, and for an act of 
infidelity the blame of failure in the hunt will fall 
heavily upon her. Meanwhile the men — at least as 
" far gone " as the women — encircle with a running 
jumping gait, and with the grace and science of well- 
trained bears, a drum or a kilindo, — the normal bark 
bandbox, — placed with open mouth upon the ground, 
and violently beaten with sticks and fists or rubbed and 
scraped with stones. It forms also a sounding-board 
for a kinanda or bow-guitar, one end of which is applied 
to it, whilst a shrill fife of goat's horn gives finish 
and completeness to the band. Around the drum are 
placed several elephants' tails, possibly designed to 
serve the purpose of the clay-corpse introduced into the 
feasts of ancient Egypt. 

When thoroughly drenched with drink, the hunters 
set out early in the morning, carrying live brands lest 
fire should fail them in the jungle, and applying them 
to their mouths to keep out the cold air. These 
trampers are sometimes dangerous to stragglers from 
caravans, especially in countries where the robber or 
the murderer expects to escape witli impunity. In some 
places hunting-huts have been erected ; they are, how- 



Digitized by Google 



300 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



ever, seldom used when elephants are sought, as a herd 
once startled does not readily return to the same pas- 
ture-grounds. The great art of the African muinzi or 
elephant-hunter is to separate a tusker from the herd 
without exciting suspicion, and to form a circle round 
the victim. The mganga, then rising with a shout, 
hurls or thrusts the first spear, and his example is fol- 
lowed by the rest. The weapons are not poisoned : they 
are fatal by a succession of small wounds. The baited 
beast rarely breaks, as might be expected, through the 
frail circle of assailants : its proverbial obstinacy is ex- 
cited; it charges one man, who slips away, when 
another, with a scream, thrusts the long stiff spear 
into its hind quarters, which makes it change in- 
tention and turn fiercely from the fugitive to the 
fresh assailant. This continues till the elephant, losing 
breath and heart, attempts to escape; its enemies 
then redouble their efforts, and at length the huge 
prey, overpowered by pain and loss of blood trick- 
ling from a hundred gashes, bites the dust. The 
victors, after certain preliminaries of singing and 
dancing, carefully cut out the tusks with small, sharp 
axes, and the rich marrow is at once picked from the 
bamboo and devoured upon the spot, as the hare's liver 
is in Italy. The hunt concludes with a grand feast of 
fat and garbage, and the hunters return home in 
triumph, laden with ivory, with ovals of hide for shields, 
and with festoons of raw and odorous meat spitted upon 
long poles. 

Throughout East Africa the mouse, as the saying is, 
travels with a staff : the education of youth and the 
exercises of manhood are confined to the practice of 
weapons. Yet the people want the expertness of the 
Somal of the North and the Kafirs of the South ; their 



Digitized by Google 



WEAPONS IN EAST AFRICA. 



301 



internal feuds perpetuate the necessity of offensive 
measures, and of the presence of arms, but their agri- 
cultural state, rendering them independent of the chase, 
prevents their reliance upon their skill for daily food. 
In consequence of being ever armed, the African like 
the Asiatic is nothing without his weapons ; he cannot 
use his strength, and when he comes to blows he fights 
like a woman. Thus the habitual show of arms is 
a mere substitute for courage ; in dangerous countries, 
as in Ugogo, the Wanyarawezi do not dare to carry them 
for fear of provocation, whereas at home and in com- 
parative safety they never appear without spear or 
knobstick. 

The weapons universally carried are the spear and 
the assegai. The bow and arrow, the knobkerry, the 
dagger, and the battle-axe are confined to certain tribes, 
whilst the musket and the sword are used beyond the 
coast only by strangers. The shield is seldom seen. 

The lance of the European, Arab, and Indian is un- 
known to these unequestrian races. The bravest tribes 
prefer the stabbing-spear, which brings them to close 
quarters with the enemy. The weapon indeed cannot 
make the man, but by reaction it greatly modifies his 
manliness. Thus the use of short weapons generally 
denotes a gallant nation ; the old Roman gladius, the 
French briquet, and the Afghan charay would be use- 
less in the hands of a timid people. Under the im- 
pression that the further men stand from their enemies 
the less is to be expected from them, the French knights 
not inaptly termed the "villanous saltpetre" the 
" grave of honour," whilst their English rivals called 
the gun a " hell-born murderer," and an " instrument 
hateful in the sight of God and man." The Africans 
have also acted upon this idea. A great Kafir chief did 



Digitized by Google 



302 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



what Plutarch relates of Camillus: he broke short the 
assegais of his " magnificent savages " when he sent 
them to war, and forbade each warrior to return with- 
out having stained his stick with blood; the conse- 
quence was, that, instead of " dumb-shooting " at a 
distance, they rushed in and won. 

The mkuki, farani, or spear, is more generally used 
for stabbing than throwing. It has a long narrow blade 
of untempered iron, so soft that it may be bent with 
the fingers; it is capable, however, of receiving a line 
edge. The shoulders are rounded off, and one or two 
lines extend lengthways along the centre from socket to 
point. At the socket where the shaft is introduced, it 
its covered with a bit of skin from the tail of some 
animal drawn on like a stocking, and sometimes the iron 
is forced on when heated, so as to adhere by contraction of 
the metal. The shaft, which is five to six feet long, is 
a branch of the dark-brown mkole or the light-yellow 
mtata-tree, chosen because close-grained, tough, pliable, 
and free from knots ; it is peeled, straightened in hot 
ashes, pared down to the heart, smoothed with a knife, 
carefully oiled or greased, without which it soon becomes 
brittle, and polished with the leaves of the mkuba-tree. 
The wood is mostly ornamented with twists of brass 
and copper wire ; it is sometimes plated with zinc or tin, 
and it is generally provided with an iron heel for plant- 
ing in the ground. Some tribes — the northern Wagogo 
and their neighbours the Wamasai for instance — have 
huge spear-heads like shovels, unfit for throwing. The 
best weapons for war are made in Karagwah. 

The kikuki, assegai, or javelin, is much used by the 
"Warori and other fighting tribes, who enter action with 
a sheaf of those weapons. Nowhere, however, did the 
East African appear possessed of the dexterity de- 



Digitized by Google 



ARCHERY. 



303 



scribed by travellers amongst the southern races. The 
assegai resembles the spear in all points, except that the 
head is often barbed, and it is more lightly timbered ; 
the shaft is rarely more than four feet in length, and it 
tapers to the thinness of a man's little finger. It is laid 
upon the palm of the right hand, and balanced with a 
vibratory motion till the point of equilibrium is found, 
when it is delivered with little exertion of the muscles 
beyond the run or spring, and as it leaves the hand it 
is directed by the forefinger and thumb. Sometimes, 
to obviate breaking, the assegai is made like the Indian 
" sang," wholly of iron. 

The East African is a " good archere and a fayre." 
The cubit-high Armiger begins as soon as he can walk 
with miniature weapons, a cane bow and reed bird- 
bolts tipped with wood, to practise till perfect at gourds 
and pumpkins; he considers himself a man when he 
can boast of iron tips. With many races " pudor est 
nescire sagittas." The bravest, however, the Warnasai 
and the Wakwafi, the Warori and the Watuta, ignore 
the practice ; with them — 

" No proof of manhood, noBe 
Of daring courage, is the bow;" 

and the Somali abandons it to his Midgan or servile. 
The bow in East Africa is invariably what is called a 
"self-bow," that is to say, made of a single piece, 
and backed weapons are unknown. It is uncommonly 
stiff, and the strongest archer would find it difficult to 
" draw up a yard ; " of this nature probably was the 
bow sent to Cambyses by the Ethiopian monarch, 
with the taunting message that he had better not 
attack men who could bend such weapons. When 
straight it may measure five feet from tip to tip. It is 
made with the same care as the spear, from a branch of 



Digitized by Google 



304 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the mumepweke or the mtata-tree, laboriously cut and 
scraped so as to taper off towards the horns, and 
smeared with oil or grease, otherwise it is easily sprung, 
and it is sometimes adorned with plates of tin and zinc, 
with copper or brass wire and tips. The string is made 
of hide, gut, the tendons of a bullock's neck or hock, 
and sometimes of tree-fibre; it is nearly double the 
bow in length, the extra portion being whipped for strength 
as well as contingent use round the upper horn. In 
shooting the bow is grasped with the left hand, but the 
thumb is never extended along the back ; the string is 
drawn with the two bent forefingers, though sometimes 
the shaft is held after the Asiatic fashion with the 
thumb and index. The bow is pulled with a jerk as 
amongst the Somal, and not let fly as by Europeans 
with a long steady loose. The best bows are made by 
the tribes near the Rufiji River. 

The arrow is about two feet in length ; the stele or 
shaft is made of some light wood, and often of reed. 
Its fault is want of weight : to inflict damage upon an 
antelope it must not be used beyond point-blank, fifteen 
to twenty paces ; and a score will be shot into a bullock 
before it falls. The musketeer, despising the arrow at a 
distance, fears it at close quarters, knowing that for his 
one shot the archer can discharge a dozen. From the 
days of Franklin to the era of Silistria, Citate, and Kars, 
fancy-tacticians have advocated the substituti on of the 
bow or the addition of it to the " queen of weapons," 
the musket. Their reasons for a revival of the obsolete 
arm are its lightness, its rapidity of discharge, and its 
silent action. They forget, however, the saying of 
Xenophon, that it is impiety in a man who has not 
learned archery from his childhood to ask such boon of 
the easy gods. 



Digitized by Google 



AIIUOW POISOX. 



805 



The East Africans ignore the use of red-hot arrows ; 
and the poisoned shaft, an unmanly weapon, unused 
by the English and French archers even in their 
deadliest wars, is confined to the Wanyika of Mombasah, 
theWazaramo, theWak'hutu, the Western Wasagara, and 
the people of Uruwwa. The Wazaramo and Wak'hutu 
call the plant from which the poison is extracted Mkan- 
dekande. They sold at somewhat an exorbitant price a 
leaf full of the preparation, but avoided pointing out to 
the expedition the plant, which from their description 
appears to be a variety of euphorbia. M. Werne ( " Sources 
of the White Nile," chap. viii. ) says that the river tribe pre- 
pare their arrow-poison from a kind of asclepias, whose 
milky sap is pressed out between two stones and allowed 
to thicken. Dr. Livingstone (chap, viii.) mentions the 
use of the n'gwa caterpillar amongst the Bushmen, who 
also poison waters with the Euphorbia arborescens; and 
Mr. Andersson (chap, vii.) specifies the Euphorbia can- 
delabrum amongst the Ovaherero and the Hill Damaras. 
In East Africa the poison-leaves are allowed to dist il their 
juices into a pot, which for inspissation is placed over 
a slow fire ; becoming thick and slab, the contents are 
applied with a stick to the arrow, and are smoothed be- 
tween the hands. When finished, the part behind the 
barb is covered with a shiny brown-black coat, not unlike 
pitch, to the extent of four or five inches. After drying 
it is renewed by the application of a fresh layer, the old 
being removed by exposure to the fire. The people 
fear this poison greatly ; they wash their hands after 
touching it, and declare that a wounded man or beast 
loses sense, " moons about," and comes to the ground 
before running a quarter of a mile. Much exagge- 
ration, however, must be expected upon the subject of 
toxicology amongst barbarians : it acts like the Somali 

VOL. II, . x 



Digitized by Google 



306 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

arrow-poison, as a strong narcotic, and is, probably, 
rarely fatal, even when freshly applied. 

Fearing the action of the wind upon such light shafts 
if unfledged, the archer inserts into the cloven end three 
or four feathers, the cockfeather being as in Europe per- 
pendicular when the arrow is nocked. The pile or iron 
head is curiously and cruelly barbed with long waving 
tails ; the neck is toothed and edged by dinting the iron 
when hot with an axe, and it is sometimes half-sawed 
that it may break before extraction. The East 
Africans also have forkers or two-headed shafts, and 
bird-bolts or blunt arrows tipped with some hard wood, 
used when the weapon is likely to be lost. Before 
loosing an arrow the archer throws into the air a 
pinch of dust, not to find out the wind, but for good 
luck, like the Tartars of Tibet before discharging their 
guns. In battle the heavy-armed man holds his spear 
and a sheaf of spare arrows in the bow-hand, whilst a 
quiver slung to the left side contains reserve missiles, and 
a little axe stuck in the right side of the girdle is ready 
when the rest fail. The ronga or quiver is a bark-case, 
neatly cut and stained. It is of two forms, full-length, 
and provided with a cover for poisoned, and half-length 
for unpoisoned, arrows. 

The rungu or knobkerry is the African club or mace ; 
it extends from the Cape to the negroid and the Somal 
tribes north of the equator. The shape varies in almost 
every district : the head is long or round, oval or irre- 
gular, and sometimes provided on one side with an edge ; 
it is cut out of the hardest wood, and generally from one 
piece. In some cases the knob is added to the handle, 
and in others it is supplied with a spear-head. The handle 
is generally two feet long, and it is cut thin enough to 
make the weapon top-heavy. The Mnyamwezi is rarely 
seen abroad without this weapon ; he uses it in the 



Digitized by 



WEAPONS. 



307 



chase, and in battle against the archer: he seems 
to trust it in close quarters rather than the feather- 
weight arrow or the spear that bends like gutta-percha, 
and most murders are committed with it. The East people 
do not, like the Kafirs, use the handle of the knobkerry 
as a dibble. 

The sime or dudgeon is the makeshift for the Arab 
jambiyah and the Persian khanjar. The form of this 
weapon differs in almost every tribe. The Wahumba or 
Wamasai use blades about four feet long by two fingers 
in breadth; the long, round, and guardless hilt is ribbed 
for security of grasp, and covered with leather ; their 
iron is of excellent quality, and the shape of the 
weapon has given rise to the report that "they 
make swords on the model of those of the Knights 
Templars." The Wazegura and the Wagogo use knives 
not unlike the poniard of the Somal. In some tribes 
it is 3 *5 feet long, with a leathern sheath extending 
half-way up the blade. Generally it is about half that 
size, straight, pointed, and double-edged, or jagged with 
teeth. The regions about the Lake manufacture and ex- 
port great numbers of these weapons varying from a 
finger's length to full dimensions. 

The shoka or battle-axe is much used by the tribes 
around the Tanganyika. It has a blade of triangular 
shape, somewhat longer and thinner than that used as a 
working tool, which is passed through the bulging 
head of a short handle cut out of the bauhinia or 
some other hard tree. Amongst the Wasagara the 
peculiar mundu or bill often serves for the same 
purpose. 

The targes of the Wasagara and the Wanyamwezi 
have already been described ; the Wavinza make a 
shield of basket-work six feet by two, and much re* 

x 2 



Digitized by Google 



.308 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

serabling that of the southern Kafirs, and the Wa'ungu 
carry large pavoises of bull's hide. It is probable 
that the exceeding humidity of the climate, so ruinous 
to leather, prevents the general adoption of the shield ; 
on the march it is merely an encumbrance, and the 
warrior must carry it on his head beyond the reach of 
the dewy grass. 

The maritime races, the Wazegura, and others oppo- 
site the island of Zanzibar, have imprudently been allowed 
to purchase fire-arms, which they employ in obstructing 
caravans and in kidnapping-commandos against their 
weaker neighbours. A single German house has, it is 
said, sold off 13,000 Tower muskets in one year. The 
arms now preferred are those exported by Hamburg and 
America ; they fetch 4 dollars each ; the French single- 
barrel is somewhat cheaper, averaging 3 dollars 50 cents. 
In the interior fire-arms are still fortunately rare — the 
Arabs are too wise to arm the barbarians against them- 
selves. In Unyamwezi an old gun is a present for a chief, 
and the most powerful rulers seldom can boast of more 
than three. Gunpowder is imported from Zanzibar in 
kegs of 10 and 25 lbs., bearing the American mark ; it is 
of the description used in blasting, and fouls the piece 
after a few discharges. The price varies at Zan- 
zibar from 3 dollars 50 cents to 7 dollars, and upon the 
coast from 5 to 10 dollars per small keg ; in Unyamwezi 
ammunition is exchanged for ivory and slaves, and some 
Arab merchants keep as many as thirty kegs in the house, 
which they retail to factors and traders at the rate of 1 
to 2 shukkahs per lb. 

Swords in East Africa are used only by strangers. 
The Wasawahili and the slave-factors prefer the kittareh, 
a curved sabre made in Oman and Hazramaut, or, in its 
stead, an old German cavalry- blade. The Arabs carry 



Digitized by 



WEAVING. 



309 



as a distinction the " faranji," a straight, thin, double- 
edged, guardless, and two-handed sword, about four feet 
long, and sharp as a carving-knife; the price varies 
from 10 to 100 dollars. 

The negroid is an unmechanical race; his industry 
has scarcely passed the limits of savage invention. 
Though cotton abounds in the interior, the Wanyam- 
wezi only have attempted a rude loom ; and the working 
of iron and copper is confined to the Wafyoma and the 
Lakist races. The gourd is still the principal succeda- 
neum for pottery. The other branches of industry 
which are necessary to all barbarians are mats and 
baskets, ropes and cords. 

Carpentering amongst the East Africans is still in its 
rudest stage ; no Dasdalus has yet taught them to jag 
their knives into saws. It is limited to making the cots 
and cartels upon which the people invariably sleep, and 
to carving canoes, mortars, bowls, rude platters, spoons 
stools, and similar articles of furniture. The tree, after 
being rung and barked to dry the juices, is felled by 
fire or the axe ; it is then cut up into lengths of the re- 
quired dimensions, and hacked into shape with slow and 
painful toil. The tools are a shoka, or hatchet of puerile 
dimensions, perhaps one-fifth the size of our broad axes, 
yet the people can use it to better advantage than the 
admirable implement of the backwoodsman. The mbizo 
or adze is also known in the interior, but none except 
the Fundi and the slaves trained upon the coast have 
ever seen a hand-saw, a centre-bit, or a chisel. 

Previous to weaving, cotton is picked and cleaned 
with the hand; it is then spun into a coarse thread. 
Like the Paharis of India, the East Africans ignore the 
distaff; they twist the material round the left wrist. The 
mlavi, or spindle, is of two forms ; one is a short stick, in- 

x 3 



Digitized by Google 



310 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

serted in a hole practised through a lump of lead or burnt 
clay, like the Indian bhaunri ; the other is a thin bit of 
wood, about 1*5 ft. long, with a crescent of the same 
material on the top, and an iron hook to hold the thread. 
The utanda, or loom-frame differs from the vertical- 
shaped article of West Africa. Two side-poles about 
twelve feet long, and supported at the corners by four 
uprights, are placed at an angle, enabling the workman to 
stand to his work ; and the oblong is completed by two 
cross-bars, round which the double line of the warp, or 
longitudinal threads of the woven tissue, are secured. 
The dimensions of the web vary from five to six feet 
in length, by two to three broad. The weft, or transverse 
thread, is shot with two or three thin laths, or spindles, 
round which the white and coloured yarns are wound, 
through the doubled warp, which is kept apart by 
another lath passing between the two layers, and the 
spindle is caught with the left hand as it appears at the 
left side. Lastly, a lath, broader and flatter than the 
others, is used to close the work, and to beat the thread 
home. As the workman deems three hours per diera 
ample labour, a cloth will rarely be finished under a 
week. Taste is shown in the choice of patterns : they 
are sometimes checks with squares, alternately black and 
white, or in stripes of black variegated with red dyes 
upon a white ground : the lines are generally broad in 
the centre, but narrow along the edges, and the texture 
not a little resembles our sacking. The dark colour is 
obtained from the juice of the mzirna-tree; it stains the 
yarn to a dull brown, which becomes a dark mulberry, 
or an Indian-ink black, when buried for two or three 
days in the vegetable mud of the ponds and poojs. The 
madder-red is produced by boiling the root and bark of 
a bush called mda'a ; an ochreish tint is also extracted 



Digitized by Google 



1R0X. 



31! 



from the crimson matter that stains the cane and the 
leaves of red holcus. All cloths have the tambua or 
fringe indispensable in East Africa. Both weaving and 
dyeing are men's not women's work in these lands. 

The cloth is a poor article : like the people of Ashanti, 
who from time immemorial have woven their own 
cottons, the East African ever prefers foreign fabrics. 
The loose texture of his own produce admits wind and 
rain ; when dry it is rough and unpleasant, when wet 
heavy, comfortless as leather, and it cannot look clean, 
as it is never bleached. According to the Arabs, the 
yarn is often dipped into a starch made from grain, 
for the purpose of thickening the appearance of the 
texture : this disappears after the first washing, and the 
cloth must be pegged down to prevent its shrinking to 
half-size. The relative proportion of warp and weft is 
unknown, and the woolly fuzzy quality of the half-wild 
cotton now in use impoverishes the fabric. Despite the 
labour expended upon these cloths, the largest size may 
be purchased for six feet of American domestics, or for 
a pair of iron hoes : there is therefore little inducement 
to extend the manufacture. 

Iron is picked up in the state called Utundwe, or 
gangue, from the sides of low sandstone hills : in places 
the people dig pits from two to four feet deep, and, ac- 
cording to the Arabs, they find tears, nodules, and 
rounded lumps. The pisolithic iron, common in the 
maritime regions, is not worked. The mhesi or black- 
smith's art is still in its infancy. The iron-stone is car- 
ried to the smithy, an open shed, where the work is 
done: the smel ting-furnace is a hole in the ground, 
filled with lighted charcoal, upon which the utundwe is 
placed, and, covered with another layer of fire, it is 

x 4 



Digitized 



312 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



allowed to run through the fuel. The blast is produced 
by mafukutu (bellows) : they are two roughly rounded 
troughs, about three inches deep by six in diameter, 
hewn out of a single bit of wood and prolonged into a 
pair of parallel branches, pierced for the passage of the 
wind through two apertures in the walls of the troughs. 
The troughs are covered with skin, to which are fixed 
two long projecting sticks for handles, which may be 
worked by a man sitting. A stone is placed upon the 
bellows for steadiness, and clay nozzles, or holcus-canes 
with a lateral hole, are fixed on to the branches to pre- 
vent them from charring. Sometimes as many as five 
pairs are worked at once, and great is the rapidity re- 
quired to secure a continuous outdraught. Mr. Anders- 
son (" Lake Ngami," chap, xvi.) gives a sketch of a 
similar contrivance amongst the South Africans: the 
clay-tubes, however, are somewhat larger than those 
used in Unyamwezi by ** blacksmiths at work." The 
ore is melted and remelted several times, till pure ; tem- 
pering and case-hardening are unknown, and it is stored 
for use by being cast in clay-moulds, or made up into 
hoes. The hammer and anvil are generally smooth 
stones. The principal articles of ironmongery are 
spears, assegais, and arrow-heads, battle-axes, hatchets, 
and adzes, knives and daggers, sickles and razors, rings 
and sambo, or wire circlets. The kinda is a large bell, 
hung by the ivory-porter to his tusk on the line of the 
march : the kengere or kiugi a smaller variety which he 
fastens to his legs. Pipes, with iron bowls and stems, 
are made by the more ingenious, and the smoker manu- 
factures for himself small pincers or pliers which, curious 
to say, are unknown even by name to the more civilised 
people of Zanzibar. 

Copper is not found upon this line in East Africa. 



Digitized by Google 



POTTERY 



313 



From the country of the Kazembe, however, an excellent 
red and heavy, soft and bright variety, not unlike that 
of Japan, finds its way to Ujiji, and sometimes to the 
coast. It is sold in bars from one to two feet long. At 
Ujiji, where it is cheap, four to five pounds are pro- 
curable for two doti, there worth about four dollars. 
Native copper, therefore, is almost as expensive as that 
imported from Europe. It is used in making the rude 
and clumsy bangles affected by both sexes, sambo, 
and ornaments for the spear and bow, the staff and the 
knobkerry. 

The art of ceramics has made but little progress in 
East Africa ; no Anacharsis has yet arisen to teach her 




Gourds. 



sons the use of the wheel. The figuline, a greyish- 
brown clay, is procured from river-beds, or is dug up in 
the country ; it is subjected to the preliminary operations 
of pounding, rubbing dry upon a stone, pulversiing, 
and purifying from stones and pebbles. It is then 
worked into a thick mass, with water, and the potter 
fashions it with the hand, first shaping the mouth ; he 
adds an inch to it when dry, hardens it in the sun, 
makes another addition, and thus proceeds till it is 
finished. Lines and other ornaments having been 
traced, the pots are baked in piles of seven or eight, 
by burning grass — wood-fire would crack them — con- 



Digitized by Google 



314 THE LAKE REGION'S OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

sequently the material always remains half-raw. 
Usually the colour becomes lamp-black ; in Usagara, 
however, the potter's clay burns red, like the soil — the 
effect of iron. A cunning workman will make in a day 
four of these pots, some of them containing several 
gallons, and their perfect regularity of form, and often 
their picturequeness of shape, surprise the stranger. 
The best are made in Ujiji, Karagwah, and Ugunda : 
those of Unyamwezi are inferior, and the clay of 
Zanzibar is of all the worst. 

There are many kinds of pots which not a little 
resemble the glazed jars of ancient Egypt. The ukango, 
which acts as vat in fermenting liquor, is of the greatest 
dimensions. The mtungi is a large water- vessel with a 
short and narrow neck, and rounded at the bottom so 
as to be conveniently carried on the head. The chungu, 
or cooking-pot, has a wide and open mouth ; it is of 
several varieties, large and small. The mkungu is a 
shallow bowl, precisely like those made at the tomb of 
Moses, and now familiar to Europe. At Ujiji and on 
the Lake they also manufacture smaller vessels, with 
and without spouts. 

In a country where pottery is scarce and dear, the 
buyu or Cucurbita lagenaria supplies every utensil 
except those used for cooking ; its many and various 
adaptations render it a valuable production. The 
people train it to grow in the most fantastic shapes, 
and ornament it by tatooing with dark paint, and by 
patterns worked in brass tacks and wires ; where it 
splits, it is artistically sewn together. The larger kinds 
serve as well-buckets, water- pots, travelling- canteens, 
churns, and the sounding-boards of musical instrument : 
a hookah, or water-pipe, is made by distorting the neck, 
and the smaller varieties are converted into snuff-boxes, 



Digitized by Google 



pipe?. 



medicine- cases, and unguent-pots. The fruit of the 
calabash-tree is also called buyu : split and dried it is 
used as ladles, but it is too small to answer all the 
purposes of the gourd. 

The East Africans excel in the manufacture of 
mtemba or bori — pipe-heads. These are of two kinds. 
One is made from a soft stone, probably steatite, found 
in Usonga, near Utumbara, and on the road to Karag- 
wah : it is, however, rare, and about ten times the price 
of the clay bowls, because less liable to break. The 
other is made of a plastic or pipe-clay, too brittle to 
serve for pots, and it invariably cracks at the shank, 
unless bound with wire. Both are hand-made, and are 
burned in the same rough way as the pottery. At 
Msene, where the clay pipe is cheapest, the price of the 
bowl is a khete, or double string of white or blue beads. 
The pipe of Unyamwezi is of graceful shape, a cone 
with the apex downwards ; this leaves but little of the 
hot, oily, and high-smelling tobacco at the bottom, 
whereas in Europe the contrary seems to be the rule. 
In Ujiji the bowl is small, rounded, and shallow ; it is, 
moreover, very brittle. The most artful " mtemba " is 
made by the people of Uvira : black inside, like other 
pottery, its exterior is coloured a greyish-white, and is 
adorned with red by means of the Indian geru (Colco- 
thar or Crocus Martis). Bhang is always, and tobacco 
is sometimes, smoked in a water-pipe : the bowl is of 
huge size, capable of containing at least half a pound, 
and its upper half is made to incline towards the 
smoker's face. The Lakist tribes have a graceful 
variety, like the Indian " chillain," very different from 
the awkward, unwieldy, and distorted article now 
fashionable in Unyamwezi and the Eastern countries. 
The usual pipe-stem is a tube of about 1*5 feet long, 



Digitized by Google 



816 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

generally a hollow twig of the dwarf melewele-tree. 
As it is rudely bored with hot wire, it must be made 
air-tight by wax and a coating of brass or copper wire ; 
a strap of hairy skin prevents the pipe-shank parting 
from the stick. Iron and brass tubes are rare and 
highly prized ; the fortunate possessor will sometimes 
ask for a single specimen two shukkahs. 

Basket-making and mat-weaving are favourite occu- 
pations in East Africa for both sexes and all ages ; even 
the Arabs may frequently be seen absorbed in an 
employment which in Oman would be considered dero- 
gatory to manliness. The sengo, or common basket, 
from the coast to the Lake, is an open, shallow, and 
pan-shaped article, generally made of mwanzi, or 
bamboo-bark, reddened in parts and stained black in 
others by the root of the Mkuruti and other trees, and 
white where the outer coat has been removed from the 
bamboo. The body, which resembles a popular article 
in ancient Egypt, is neatly plaited, and the upper ends 
are secured to a stout hoop of the same material. The 
kanda (in the plural makanda) acts in the interior as 
matting for rooms, and is converted into bags for 
covering bales of cloth, beads, and similar articles. It 
is made from the myara (myala) or Chamacrops humilis; 
the leaf is peeled, sun-dried, and split with a bit of iron 
into five or six lengths, joined at the base, which is 
trimmed for plaiting. The Karagwah, the only mat 
made in the interior of Africa, is used as bedding and 
carpeting ; on journeys the porters bivouac under it ; it 
swells with the wet, and soon becomes impervious to 
rain or heavy dew. It is of two kinds : one of rushes 
growing in the vicinity of water, the other of grass rolled 
up into little bundles. A complicated stitch runs along 
the whole length in double lines. The best description 



Digitized by 



MATS AXD FIBROUS SUBSTANCES. 



of mat is called mkeke. It is made at Zanzibar and the 
coast, from the young fronds of the ukhindu or brab, 
neatly stained with various dyes. Women of family 
pride themselves upon their skill in making the mkeke, 
which still attains a price of four dollars. Amongst the 
maritime races none but the chiefs have a right to sit 
upon it ; there are no such distinctions in the interior, 
where these mats are carried for sale by the slaves. 
From the brab also are made neat strainers to purify 
honey, pombe, and similar articles. They are open- 
mouthed cylinders, from one to two feet long, and vary- 
ing in diameter from three to six inches. The bottom 
is narrowed by whipping fibre round the loose ends of 
the leaves. The fishing-nets have been described when 
treating of the Tanganyika. The luavo, or hand-net, is 
made of calabash or other fibre, with coarse wide 
meshes; it is affixed to two sticks firmly planted in 
the ground, and small animals are driven into it by 
beaters. 

The basts or barks and fibrous substances in East 
Africa are cheap and abundant, but labour and convey- 
ance being difficult and expensive, they would require to 
be shipped from Zanzibar in the condition of half-stuff. 
The best and most easily divisible into pliant and knot- 
tying fibres are, upon the coast the pineapple, and in the 
interior the plantain. The next in value are the integu- 
ments of the calabash and the myombo tree. These 
fibres would produce a good article were it not for the 
artlessness of African manipulation. The bark is pounded 
or chewed, and, in lieu of spinning, is twisted between 
the hands ; the largest ropes* are made in half an hour, 
and break after a few minutes of hard work. A fine 
silky twine, used for fishing, is made from the aloetic 
plants called by the Wasawahili mkonge, and by the 



Digitized by Google 



TI1E LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Arabs bag, masad and kideh : it is the big or haskul of 
Somaliland, wbere it affects the poorest ground, cannot 
be burnt down, and is impassable to naked legs and 
cattle. The leaves are stripped of their coats, and the 
ends being tightly bound between two pieces of wood, 
the mass of fibre is drawn out like a sword from its 
sheath. Fatiluh, or matchlock matches, are made in 
Zanzibar of cotton, and in the interior of calabash 
fibre. 

As might be expected among a sparse population lead- 
ing a comparatively simple life, the vast variety of dis- 
eases which afflict more civilised races, who are collected 
in narrow spaces, are unknown in East Africa even by 
name. Its principal sporadic is fever, remittent and in- 
termittent, with its multitudinous secondaries, concern- 
ing which notices have been scattered through the pre- 
ceding pages. The most dangerous epidemic is its 
aborigen, the small-pox, which, propagated without con- 
tact or fomites, sweeps at times like a storm of death 
over the land. For years it has not left the Arab colony 
at Kazch, and, shortly before the arrival of the Expedi- 
tion, in a single month 52 slaves died out of a total of 
800. The ravages of this disease amongst the half- 
starved and over-worked gangs of caravan porters have 
already been described ; as many as a score of these 
wretches have been seen at a time in a single caravan ; 
men staggering along blinded and almost insensible, 
jostling and stumbling against every one in their way ; 
and mothers carrying babes, both parent and progeny 
in the virulent stage of the fell disease. The Arabs 
have partially introduced the practice of inoculating, 
anciently known in South Africa; the pus is introduced 
into an incision in the forehead between the eyebrows. 
The people have no remedy for small-pox : they trust 



Digitized by Google 



DISEASES. 



310 



entirely to the vis mcdicatrix. There is a milder form 
of the malady, called shiirud, resembling the chicken-pox 
of Europe; it is cured by bathing in cold water and 
smearing the body with ochreish earth. The Arab 
merchants of Unyanyembe declare that, when they first 
visited Karagwah, the people were decimated by the 
taun, or plague. They describe correctly the bubo under 
the axillae, the torturing thirst, and the rapid fatality of 
the disease. In the early part of 1 859 a violent attack 
of cholera, which extended from Maskat along the eastern 
coast of Arabia and Africa, committed terrible ravages 
in the island of Zanzibar and throughout the maritime 
regions. Of course, no precautions of quarantine or 
cordon militaire were taken, yet the contagion did not 
extend into the interior. 

Strangers in East Africa suffer from dysenteries and 
similar disorders consequent upon fever; and, as in 
Egypt, few are free from haemorrhoids, which in Unyam- 
wezi are accompanied by severe colics and umbilical 
pains. Rheumatism and rheumatic fever, severe catarrhs 
and influenzas, are caused by the cold winds, and, when 
crossing the higher altitudes, pneumonia and pleurisis 
abound in the caravan. On the coast many settlers, 
Indian and Arab, show upon the skin whitish leprous 
spots, which are treated with various unguents. In the 
interior, though well provided with fresh meat and 
vegetables, travellers are attacked by scurvy, even in the 
absence of its normal exciting causes, damp, cold, and 
poor diet. This phenomenon has often been observed 
upon the upper course of the Nile ; Europeans have been 
prostrated by it even in the dry regions westward of the 
Red Sea, and the Portuguese officers who explored 
Usenda of the Kazembe suffered tortures from the com- 
plaint. 



Digitized 



320 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Common diseases among the natives are umbilical 
hernia and prolapsus : the latter is treated by the ap- 
plication of powdered bhang, dry or mixed with ghee. 
They are subject to kihindu-hindu — in Arabic, sara — 
the epilepsy, which they pretend to cure by the marrow 
of rhinoceros' shank. Of the many fits and convul- 
sions which affect them, the kichyoma-chyoma is the 
most dreaded. The word, which means the " little 
irons," describes the painful sensations, the cramps and 
stitches, the spasms and lancinations, which torment the 
sufferer. Many die of this disease. It is not extraor- 
dinary that the fits, convulsions, and contortions which 
it suddenly induces should lead the people to consider it 
in the light of possession, and the magician to treat it 
with charms. Madness and idiocy are not uncommon : 
of the patient it is said, " Ana wazimo " — " he has 
fiends." In most parts the people, after middle age, 
are tender-eyed from the effects of smoke within, glare 
without, exposure and debauchery. Not a few samples 
of acute ophthalmic disease were seen. 

In the lower and more malarious spots, desquama- 
tions, tumours, and skin diseases are caused by suddenly 
suppressed perspiration. The terrible kidonda or hel- 
coma of the maritime regions and the prurigo of Ujiji 
have already been alluded to. The " chokea " is a 
hordeolum or large boil, generally upon the upper eye- 
lid. The " funza " is supposed to result from the bite 
of a large variety of fly. It begins with a small red and 
fiery swelling, which bursts after a time and produces a 
white entozoon about half an inch in length. " Kumri " 
are common blains, and " p'hambazi " malignant blind- 
boils, which leave a deep discoloured scar ; when the 
parts affected are distant from the seat of circulation, 
the use of the limb is sometimes lost. For most of these 



Digitized by Google 



LUES. 321 

sores tutiya or murtutu, blue-stone, is considered a 
specific. 

As might be expected amongst an ignorant and de- 
bauched race coming in direct contact with semi-civilisa- 
tion, the lues has found its way from the island of Zan- 
zibar to Ujiji and into the heart of Africa. It is uni- 
versally believed both by the natives and by the Arabs, 
who support the assertion with a host of proofs, to be 
propagated without contact. Such, indeed, is the general 
opinion of the Eastern world, where perhaps its greater 
virulence may assimilate it to the type of the earlier at- 
tacks in Europe. The disease, however, dies out, and 
has not taken root in the people as amongst the devoted 
races of North America and the South Sea islands. Al- 
though a malignant form was found extending through- 
out the country, mutilation of the features and similar 
secondaries were not observed beyond the maritime 
region. Except blue-stone, mineral drugs are unknown, 
and the use of mercury and ptyalism have not yet -exas- 
perated the evil. The minor form of lues is little feared 
and yields readily to simples ; the consequences, however, 
are strangury, cystitis, chronic nephritic disease, and 
rheumatism. 

" Polypharmacy " is not the fault of the profession in 
East Africa, and the universal belief in possession tends 
greatly to simplify the methodus modendi. The usual 
cathartic is the bark of a tree called kalakala, which is 
boiled in porridge. There is a great variety of emetics, 
some so violent that several Arabs who have been bold 
enough to swallow them, barely escaped with life. The 
actual cautery — usually a favourite counter-irritant 
amongst barbarous people — is rarely practised in East 
Africa ; in its stead powder of blue-stone is applied to 
the sore or wound, which has been carefully scraped, 

VOL. II. y 



Digitized by Google 



32* THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

and the patient howls with pain for twenty-four hours. 
They bleed frequently as Italians, who even after being 
startled resort to a mild phlebotomy, and they cut down 
straight upon the vein with a sharp knife. They prefer 
the cucurbitula cruenta, like the Arabs, who say, — 

•* Few that cup repent ; 
Few that bleed, rejoice.** 

A favourite place ia the crown of the head. The prac- 
titioner, after scarifying the skin with a razor or a dagger, 
produces a vacuum by exhausting the air through a horn 
applied with wetted edges ; at the point is a bit of wax, 
which he closes over the aperture with his tongue or 
teeth, as the hospital " singhi " in India uses a bit of 
leather. Cupping — called ku hu mika or kumika — is 
made highly profitable by showing strange appearances 
in the blood. They cure by excision the bite of snakes, 
which, however, are not feared nor often fatal in these 
lands. They cannot reduce dislocations, and they 
never attempt to set or splint a broken bone. 

The mganga or medicine-man, in his character of 
" doctor," is a personage of importance. He enters the 
sick-room in the dignity of antelope-horn, grease, and 
shell-necklace, and he sits with importance upon his 
three-legged stool. As the devil saves him the trouble 
of diagnosis, he begins by a prescription, invariably 
ordering something edible for the purpose, and varying 
it, according to the patient's means, from a measure of 
grain to a bullock. He asserts, for instance, that a 
pound of fat is required for medicine ; a goat must be 
killed, and his perquisite is the head or breast — a pre- 
liminary to a more important fee. Then the price of 
prescription — a sine qud non to prescribing — is settled 
upon and paid in advance. After certain questions, in- 



Digitized by 



THE DOCTOR. 



323 



variably suggesting the presence of poison, the medical 
practitioner proceeds to the cure ; this is generally a 
charm or periapt bound round the part affected. In 
common diseases, however, like fever, the mganga will 
condescend to such profane processes as adhibiting ster- 
nutatories and rubbing the head with vegetable pow- 
ders. If the remedies prove too powerful or powerless, 
he at once decamps; under normal circumstances he 
incapacitates himself for performing his promise of 
calling the next day by expending his fee in liquor. The 
Africans have in one point progressed beyond Europeans: 
there are as many women physicians as men. 



A Mnyamwc?.i. 



A Mheh*. 



CHAP. XIX. 

THE CHARACTER AND RELIGION OF THE EAST AFRICANS ; THEIR 

GOVERNMENT, AND SLAVERY. 

The study of psychology in Eastern Africa is the study 
of man's rudimental mind, when, subject to the agency 
of material nature, he neither progresses nor retrogrades. 
He would appear rather a degeneracy from the civilised 
man than a savage rising to the first step, were it not 
for his apparent incapacity for improvement. He has 
not the ring of the true metal; there is no rich nature, 
as in the New Zealander, for education to cultivate. He 
seems to belong to one of those childish races which, 
never rising to man's estate, fall like worn-out links 
from the great chain of animated nature. He unites 
the incapacity of infancy with the unpliancy of age; the 
futility of childhood, and the credulity of youth, with 
the scepticism of the adult and the stubbornness and 



Digitized by Google 



THE EAST AFRICAN'S CHARACTER. 325 



bigotry of the old. He has " beaten lands" and seas. For 
centuries he has been in direct intercourse with the more 
advanced people of the eastern coast, and though fetf 
have seen an European, there are not many who have 
not cast eyes upon an Arab. Still he has stopped short 
at the threshold of progress ; he shows no signs of de- 
velopment ; no higher and more varied orders of intel- 
lect are called into being. Even the simple truths of 
El Islam have failed to fix the thoughts of men who 
can think, but who, absorbed in providing for their 
bodily wants, hate the trouble of thinking. His mind, 
limited to the objects seen, heard, and felt, will not, 
and apparently cannot, escape from the circle of sense, 
nor will it occupy itself with aught but the present. 
Thus he is cut off from the pleasures of memory, and 
the world of fancy is altogether unknown to him. 
Perhaps the automaton which we call spiritual suffers 
from the inferiority of the mechanism by which it 
acts. 

The East African is, like other barbarians, a strange 
mixture of good and evil : by the nature of barbarous 
society, however, the good element has not, whilst the 
evil has, been carefully cultured. 

As a rule, the civilised or highest type of man owns 
the sway of intellect, of reason ; the semi-civilised — as 
are still the great nations of the East — are guided by 
sentiment and propensity in a degree incomprehensible 
to more advanced races; and the barbarian is the slave 
of impulse, passion, and instinct, faintly modified by 
sentiment, but ignorant of intellectual discipline. He 
appears, therefore, to the civilised man a paralogic 
being, — a mere mass of contradictions; his ways are 
not our ways, his reason is not our reason. He deduces 
effects from causes which we ignore ; he compasses his 

T 3 



Digitized by Google 



326 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

ends by contrivances which we cannot comprehend ; 
and his artifices and polity excite, by their shallowness 
and " inconsequence," our surprise and contempt. Like 
that Hindu race that has puzzled the plain-witted 
Englishman for the century closing with the massacres 
of Delhi and Cawnpore, he is calculated to perplex 
those who make conscience an instinct which elevates 
man to the highest ground of human intelligence. He 
is at once very good-tempered and hard-hearted, com- 
bative and cautious; kind at one moment, cruel, pitiless, 
and violent at another; sociable and unaffectionate ; 
superstitious and grossly irreverent ; brave and cowardly, 
servile and oppressive ; obstinate, yet fickle and fond of 
changes ; with points of honour, but without a trace of 
honesty in word or deed ; a lover of life, though ad- 
dicted to suicide ; covetous and parsimonious, yet 
thoughtless and improvident; somewhat conscious of 
inferiority, withal unimprovable. In fact, he appears an 
embryo of the two superior races. He is inferior to the 
active-minded and objective, the analytic and perceptive 
European, and to the ideal and subjective, the synthetic 
and reflective Asiatic. He partakes largely of the 
worst characteristics of the lower Oriental types — stag- 
nation of mind, indolence of body, moral deficiency, 
superstition, and childish passion ; hence the Egyptians 
aptly termed the Berbers and negroes the " perverse 
race of Kush." 

The main characteristic of this people is the selfish- 
ness which the civilised man strives to conceal, because 
publishing it would obstruct its gratification. The bar- 
barian, on the other hand, displays his inordinate 
egotism openly and recklessly; his every action discloses 
those unworthy traits which in more polished races 
chiefly appear on public occasions, when each man 



Digitized by Google 



CHARACTER OF THE FEOPLE. 



327 



thinks solely of self-gratification. Gratitude with him 
is not even a sense of prospective favours ; he looks upon 
a benefit as the weakness of his benefactor and his own 
strength ; consequently, he will not recognise even the 
hand that feeds him. He will, perhaps, • lament for a 
night the death of a parent or a child, but the morrow 
will find him thoroughly comforted. The name of 
hospitality, except for interested motives, is unknown 
to him : " What will you give me ? " is his first ques- 
tion. To a stranger entering a village the worst hut is 
assigned, and, if he complain, the answer is that he can 
find encamping ground outside. Instead of treating him 
like a guest, which the Arab Bedouin would hold to be a 
point of pride, of honour, his host compels him to pay and 
prepay every article, otherwise he might starve in the 
midst of plenty. Nothing, in fact, renders the stranger's 
life safe in this land, except the timid shrinking of the 
natives from the " hot-mouthed weapon " and the ne- 
cessity of trade, which induces the chiefs to restrain the 
atrocities of their subjects. To travellers the African 
is, of course, less civil than to merchants, from whom he 
expects to gain something. He will refuse a mouthful 
of water out of his abundance to a man dying of thirst ; 
utterly unsympathising, he will not stretch out a hand 
to save another's goods, though worth thousands of 
dollars. Of his own property, if a ragged cloth or a 
lame slave be lost, his violent excitement is ridiculous to 
behold. His egotism renders him parsimonious even in 
self-gratification ; the wretched curs, which he loves as 
much as his children, seldom receive a mouthful of food, 
and the sight of an Arab's ass feeding on grain elicits a 
prolonged " Hi ! hi ! " of extreme surprise. He is ex- 
ceedingly improvident, taking no thought for the morrow 
— not from faith, but rather from carelessness as to 

T 4 



Digitized by Google 



628 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

what may betide him ; yet so greedy of gain is he that 
he will refuse information about a country or the direc- 
tion of a path without a present of beads. He also in- 
variably demands prepayment : no one keeps a promise 
or adheres to an agreement, and, if credit be demanded 
for an hour, his answer would be, " There is nothing in 
my hand." Yet even greed of gain cannot overcome 
the levity and laxity of his mind. Despite his best in- 
terests, he will indulge the mania for desertion caused 
by that mischievous love of change and whimsical desire 
for novelty that characterise the European sailor. Nor 
can even lucre prevail against the ingrained indolence 
of the race — an indolence the more hopeless as it is the 
growth of the climate. In these temperate and abun- 
dant lands Nature has cursed mankind with the abun- 
dance of her gifts ; his wants still await creation, and 
he is contented with such necessaries as roots and herbs, 
game, and a few handfuls of grain — consequently im- 
provement has no hold upon him. 

In this stage of society truth is no virtue. The 
"mixture of a lie" may "add to pleasure" amongst 
Europeans ; in Africa it enters where neither pleasure 
nor profit can arise from the deception. If a Mnyam- 
wezi guide informs the traveller that the stage is short, 
he may make up his mind for a long and weary march, 
and vice versd. Of course, falsehood is used as a de- 
fence by the weak and oppressed ; but beyond that, the 
African desires to be lied to, and one of his proverbs is, 
"'Tis better to be deceived than to be undeceived." 
The European thus qualifies the assertion, 

" For sure the pleasure is as great 
In being cheated as to cheat.' 1 

Like the generality of barbarous races, the East 



Digitized by 



• HARD-HEARTEDXESS OF TIIE EAST AFRICAN. 329 

Africans are wilful, headstrong, and undisciplinable: 
in point of stubbornness and restiveness they resemble 
the lower animals. If they cannot obtain the very 
article of barter upon which they have set their mind, 
they will carry home things useless to them; any 
attempt at bargaining is settled by the seller turning 
his back, and they ask according to their wants and 
wishes, without regard to the value of goods. Grumbling 
and dissatisfied, they never do business without a 
grievance. Revenge is a ruling passion, as the many 
rancorous fratricidal wars that have prevailed between 
kindred clans, even for a generation, prove. Retaliation 
and vengeance are, in fact, their great agents of moral 
control. Judged by the test of death, the East African 
is a hardhearted man, who seems to ignore all the 
charities of father, son, and brother. A tear is rarely 
shed, except by the women, for departed parent, relative, 
or friend, and the voice of the mourner is seldom heard 
in their abodes. It is most painful to witness the complete 
inhumanity with which a porter seized with small- pox 
is allowed by his friends, comrades, and brethren to fall 
behind in the jungle, with several days' life in him. 
No inducement — even beads — can persuade a soul to 
attend him. Every village will drive him from its 
doors ; no one will risk taking, at any price, death into 
his bosom. If strong enough, the sufferer builds a little 
bough -hut away from the camp, and, provided with his 
rations — a pound of grain and a gourdful of water— he 
quietly expects his doom, to feed the hyaena and the 
raven of the wild. The people are remarkable for the 
readiness with which they yield to fits of sudden fury ; 
on these occasions they will, like children, vent their 
rage upon any object, animate or inanimate, that pre- 
sents itself. Their temper is characterised by a nervous, 



Digitized 



330 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

futile impatience ; under delay or disappointment they 
become madmen. In their own country, where such 
displays are safe, they are remarkable for a presump- 
tuousness and a violence of manner which elsewhere 
disappears. As the Arabs say, there they are lions, 
here they become curs. Their squabbling and clamour 
pass description : they are never happy except when in 
dispute. After a rapid plunge into excitement, the 
brawlers alternately advance and recede, pointing the 
finger of threat, howling and screaming, cursing and 
using terms of insult which an inferior ingenuity — not 
want of will — causes to fall short of the Asiatic's model 
vituperation. After abusing each other to their full, both 
" parties " usually burst into a loud laugh or a burst 
of sobs. Their tears lie high ; they weep like Goanese. 
After a cuff, a man will cover his face with his hands 
and cry as if his heart would break. More furious 
shrews than the women are nowhere met with. Here it 
is a great truth that " the tongues of women cannot be 
governed." They work off excitement by scolding, and 
they weep little compared with the men. Both sexes 
delight in " argument," which here, as elsewhere, means 
two fools talking foolishly. They will weary out of 
patience the most loquacious of the Arabs. This de- 
velopment is characteristic of the East African race, 
and " maneno marefu ! " — long words ! — will occur as a 
useless reproof half a dozen times in the course of a 
single conversation. When drunk, the East African is 
easily irritated ; with the screams and excited gestures 
of a maniac he strides about, frantically flourishing his 
spear and agitating his bow, probably with notched 
arrow ; the spear-point and the arrow-head are often 
brought perilously near, but rarely allowed to draw 
blood. The real combat is by pushing, pulling hair, 



Digitized by Google 



IT JS BAD TO DIE. 



331 



and slapping with a will, and a pair thus engaged 
require to be torn asunder by half a dozen friends. 
The settled tribes are, for the most part, feeble and 
un warlike barbarians ; even the bravest East African, 
though, like all men, a combative entity, has a valour 
tempered by discretion and cooled by a high develop- 
ment of cautiousness. His tactics are of the Fabian 
order : he loves surprises and safe ambuscades ; and in 
common frays and forays the loss of one per cent, 
justifies a sauve qui peut. This people, childlike, is 
ever in extremes. A man will hang himself from a 
rafter in his tent, and kick away from under him the 
large wooden mortar upon which he has stood at the 
beginning of the operation with as much sang-froid as an 
Anglo-Saxon in the gloomy month of November ; yet 
he regards annihilation, as all savages do, with loathing 
and ineffable horror. "He fears death," to quote 
Bacon, " as children fear to go in the dark ; and as that 
natural fear in children is increased with tales, so is the 
other." The African mind must change radically before 
it can " think upon death, and find it the least of all evils." 
All the thoughts of these negroids are connected with 
this life. " Ah!" they exclaim, "it is bad to die! to 
leave off eating and drinking! never to wear a fine 
cloth!" As in the negro race generally, their destruc- 
tiveness is prominent ; a slave never breaks a thing 
without an instinctive laugh of pleasure ; and however 
careful he may be of his own life, he does not value 
that of another, even of a relative, at the price of a goat. 
During fires in the town of Zanzibar, the blacks have 
been seen adding fuel, and singing and dancing, wild 
with delight. On such occasions they are shot down by 
the Arabs like dogs. 

It is difficult to explain the state of society in which 



Digitized by Google 



332 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the civilised " social evil " is not recognised as an evil. 
In the economy of the affections and the intercourse 
between the sexes, reappears that rude stage of society 
in which ethics were new to the mind of now en- 
lightened man. Marriage with this people — as amongst 
all barbarians, and even the lower classes of civi- 
lised races — is a mere affair of buying and selling. 
A man must marry because it is necessary to his com- 
fort, consequently the woman becomes a marketable 
commodity. Her father demands for her as many 
cows, cloths, and brass-wire bracelets as the suitor can 
afford ; he thus virtually sells her, and she belongs to 
the buyer, ranking with his other live stock. The 
husband may sell his wife, or, if she be taken from him 
by another man, he claims her value, which is ruled by 
what she would fetch in the slave-market. A strong 
inducement to marriage amongst the Africans, as 
with the poor in Europe, is the prospective benefit to 
be derived from an adult family; a large progeny 
enriches them. The African — like all barbarians, and, 
indeed, semi-civilised people — ignores the dowry by 
which, inverting Nature's order, the wife buys the 
husband, instead of the husband buying the wife. Mar- 
riage, which is an epoch amongst Christians, and an 
event with Moslems, is with these people an incident of 
frequent recurrence. Polygamy is unlimited, and the 
chiefs pride themselves upon the number of their wives, 
varying from twelve to three hundred. It is no disgrace 
for an unmarried woman to become the mother of a 
family ; after matrimony there is somewhat less laxity. 
The mgoni or adulterer, if detected, is punishable by a 
fine of cattle, or, if poor and weak, he is sold into 
slavery ; husbands seldom, however, resort to such 
severities, the offence, which is considered to be against 



Digitized by Google 



A FRICAX CHARA(TKR. 



vested property, being held to be lighter than petty 
larceny. Under the influence of jealousy, murders and 
mutilations have been committed, but they are rare and 
exceptional. Divorce is readily effected by turning 
the spouse out of doors, and the children become the 
father's property. Attachment to home is powerful in 
the African race, but it regards rather the comforts and 
pleasures of the house, and the unity of relations 
and friends, than the fondness of family. Husband, 
wife, and children have through life divided interests, 
and live together with scant appearance of affection. 
Love of offspring can have but little power amongst a 
people who have no preventive for illegitimacy, and 
whose progeny may be sold at any time. The children 
appear undemonstrative and unaffectionate, as those of 
the Somal. Some attachment to their mothers^breaks 
out, not in outward indications, but by surprise, as it 
were: "Mama! mama!" — mother! mother! — is a 
common exclamation in fear or wonder. When child- 
hood is passed, the father and son become natural ene- 
mies, after the manner of wild beasts. Yet they are a 
sociable race, and the sudden loss of relatives some- 
times leads from grief to hypochondria and^insanity, 
resulting from the inability of their minds to bear any 
unusual strain. It is probable that a little learning 
would make them mad, like the Widad, or priest of the 
Somal, who, after mastering the reading of the Koran, 
becomes unfit for any exertion of judgment or common 
sense. To this over-development of sociability must 
be ascribed the anxiety always shown to shift, evade, 
or answer blame. The "ukosa," or transgression, is 
never accepted ; any number of words will be wasted in 
proving the worse the better cause. Hence also the 
favourite phrase, "Mbaya we!" — thou art bad! — a 



Digitized by Google 



334 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



pet mode of reproof which sounds simple and uneffective 
to European ears. 

The social position of the women — the unerring test 
of progress towards civilisation — is not so high in East 
Africa as amongst the more highly organised tribes of 
the south. Few parts of the country own the rule of 
female chiefs. The people, especially the Wanyam- 
wezi, consult their wives, but the opinion of a bro- 
ther or a friend would usually prevail over that of a 
woman. 

The deficiency of the East African in constructive 
power has already been remarked. Contented with his 
haystack or beehive hut, his hemisphere of boughs, or his 
hide acting tent, he hates and has a truly savage horror 
of stone walls. He has the conception of the " Made- 
leine," but he has never been enabled to be delivered of 
it. Many Wanyarawezi, when visiting Zanzibar, cannot 
be prevailed upon to enter a house. 

The East African is greedy and voracious ; he seems, 
however, to prefer light and frequent to a few regular 
and copious meals. Even the civilised Kisawahili has 
no terms to express the breakfast, dinner, and supper of 
other languages. Like most barbarians, the East African 
can exist and work with a small quantity of food, but he is 
unaccustomed, and therefore unable, to bear thirst. The 
daily ration of a porter is 1 kubabah (= 1*5 lbs.) of 
grain ; he can, with the assistance of edible herbs and 
roots, which he is skilful in discovering in the least 
likely places, eke out this allowance for several days, 
though generally, upon the barbarian's impulsive prin- 
ciple of mortgaging the future for the present, he reck- 
lessly consumes his stores. With him the grand end of 
life is eating ; his love of feeding is inferior only to his 
propensity for intoxication. He drinks till he can no 



Digitized by 



DRINKING-BOUTS. 



335 



longer stand, lies down to sleep, and awakes to drink 
again. Drinking-bouts are solemn things, to which the 
most important business must yield precedence. They 
celebrate with beer every event— the traveller's return, 
the birth of a child, and the death of an elephant — a la- 
bourer will not work unless beer is provided for him. A 
guest is received with a gourdful of beer, and, amongst 
some tribes, it is buried with their princes. The high- 
est orders rejoice in drink, and pride themselves upon 
powers of imbibing : the proper diet for a king is much 
beer and a little meat. If a Mnyamwezi be asked after 
eating whether he is hungry, he will reply yea, mean- 
ing that he is not drunk. Intoxication excuses crime in 
these lands. The East African, when in his cups, must 
issue from his hut to sing, dance, or quarrel, and the 
frequent and terrible outrages which occur on these 
occasions are passed over on the plea that he has drunk 
beer. The favourite hour for drinking is after dawn, — 
a time as distasteful to the European as agreeable to the 
African and Asiatic. This might be proved by a host 
of quotations from the poets, Arab, Persian, and Hindu. 
The civilised man avoids early potations because they 
incapacitate him for necessary labour, and he attempts 
to relieve the headache caused by stimulants. The bar- 
barian and the semi-civilised, on the other hand, prefer 
them, because they relieve the tedium of his monotonous 
day ; and they cherish the headache because they can 
sleep the longer, and, when they awake, they have some- 
thing to think of. The habit once acquired is never 
broken : it attaches itself to the heartstrings of the idle 
and unoccupied barbarian. 

In morality, according to the more extended sense of 
the word, the East African is markedly deficient. He 
has no benevolence, but little veneration — the negro 



Digitized by Google 



33C THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

race is ever irreverent — and, though his cranium rises 
high in the region of firmness, his futility prevents his 
being firm. The outlines of law are faintly traced upon 
his heart. The authoritative standard of morality fixed 
by a revelation is in him represented by a vague and 
varying custom, derived traditionally from his ancestors; 
he follows in their track for old-sake's sake. The ac- 
cusing conscience is unknown to him. His only fear 
after committing a treacherous murder is that of being 
haunted by the angry ghost of the dead ; he robs as one 
doing a good deed, and he begs as if it were his calling. 
His depravity is of the grossest: intrigue fills up all 
the moments not devoted to intoxication. 

The want of veneration produces a savage rudeness 
in the East African. The body politic consists of two 
great members, masters and slaves. Ignoring distinc- 
tions of society, he treats all men, except his chief, as 
his equals. He has no rules for visiting : if the door 
be open, he enters a stranger's house uninvited; his 
harsh, barking voice is ever the loudest; he is never 
happy except when hearing himself speak ; his address 
is imperious, his demeanour is rough and peremptory, 
and his look " sfacciato." He deposits his unwashed 
person, in his greasy and tattered goat-skin or cloth, 
upon rug or bedding, disdaining to stand for a moment, 
and he always chooses the best place in the room. When 
travelling he will push forward to secure the most com- 
fortable hut: the chief of a caravan may sleep in rain or 
dew, but, if he attempt to dislodge his porters, they lie 
down with the settled purpose of mules — as the Arabs 
say, they "have no shame." The curiosity of these 
people, and the little ceremony with which they gratify 
it, are at times most troublesome. A stranger must be 
stared at ; total apathy is the only remedy : if the victim 



Digitized by 



KAST AFRICAN INTELLECT. 



337 



lose his temper, or attempt to dislodge them, he will find 
it like disturbing a swarm of bees. They will come for 
miles to "sow gape-seed:" if the tent-fly be closed, 
they will peer and peep from below, complaining loudly 
against the occupant, and, if further prevented, they may 
proceed to violence. On the road hosts of idlers, 
especially women, boys, and girls, will follow the caravan 
for hours; it is a truly offensive spectacle — these un- 
couth figures, running at a "gymnastic pace," half 
clothed except with grease, with pendent bosoms shaking 
in the air, and cries that resemble the howls of beasts 
more than any effort of human articulation. This 
offensive ignorance of the first principles of social inter- 
course has been fostered in the races most visited by the 
Arabs, whose national tendency, like the Italian and 
the Greek, is ever and essentially republican. When 
strangers first appeared in the country they were re- 
ceived with respect and deference. They soon, however, 
lost this vantage-ground : they sat and chatted with the 
people, exchanged pleasantries, and suffered slights, till 
the Africans found themselves on an equality with their 
visitors. The evil has become inveterate, and no greater 
contrast can be imagined than that between the man- 
ners of an Indian Ryot and an East African Mshenzi. 

In intellect the East African is sterile and incult, ap- 
parently unprogressivc and unfit for change. Like the 
uncivilised generally, he observes well, but he can 
deduce nothing profitable from his perceptions. His 
intelligence is surprising when compared with that of 
an uneducated English peasant ; but it has a narrow 
bound, beyond which apparently no man may pass. Like 
the Asiatic, in fact, he is stationary, but at a much 
lower level. Devotedly fond of music, his love of tune 
has invented nothing but whistling and the whistle : his 

VOL. II. z 



Digitized by Google 



;K1m THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



instruments are all borrowed from the coast people. lie 
delights in singing, yet he has no metrical songs : he 
contents himself with improvising a few words without 
sense or rhyme, and repeats them till they nauseate : the 
long, drawling recitative generally ends in " Ah ! ha n ! " 
or some such strongly-nasalised sound. Like the Somal, 
he has tunes appropriated to particular occasions, as the 
clcphant-hunt or the harvest-home. When- mourning, 
the love of music assumes a peculiar form: women 
weeping or sobbing, especially after chastisement, will 
break into a protracted threne or dirge, every period of 
which concludes with its own particular groan or wail : 
after venting a little natural distress in a natural sound, 
the long, loud improvisation, in the highest falsetto key, 
continues as before. As in Europe the " laughing-song " 
is an imitation of hilarity somewhat distressing to the 
spirits of the audience, so the " weeping-song " of the 
African only tends to risibility. His wonderful loquacity 
and volubility of tongue have produced no tales, poetry, 
nor display of eloquence ; though, like most barbarians, 
somewhat sententious, he will content himself with 
squabbling with his companions, or with repeating some 
meaningless word in every different tone of voice during 
the weary length of a day's march. His language is 
highly artificial and musical : the reader will have ob- 
served that the names which occur in these pages often 
consist entirely of liquids and vowels, that consonants are 
unknown at the end of a word, and that they never 
are double except at the beginning. Yet the idea of 
a syllabarium seems not to have occurred to the negroid 
mind. Finally, though the East African delights in the 
dance, and is an excellent timist — a thousand heels 
striking the ground simultaneously sound like one — his 
performance is as uncouth as perhaps was ever devised 
by man. He delights in a joke, which manages him like 



Digitized by Google 



DIFFERENCES OF CHARACTER. 



33!) 



a Neapolitan ; yet his efforts in wit are of the feeblest 
that can be conceived. 

Though the general features of character correspond 
throughout the tribes in East Africa, there are also 
marked differences. The Wazaramo, for instance, are 
considered the most dangerous tribe on this line : cara- 
vans hurry through their lands, and hold themselves 
fortunate if a life be not lost, or if a few loads be not 
missing. Their neighbours, the Wasagara of the hills, 
were once peaceful and civil to travellers : the persecu- 
tions of the coast-people have rendered them morose and 
suspicious ; they now shun strangers, and, never know- 
ing when they may be attacked, they live in a constant 
state of agitation, excitement, and alarm. After the 
Wazaramo, the tribes of Ugogo are considered the most 
noisy and troublesome, the most extortionate, quarrel- 
some and violent on this route : nothing restrains these 
races from bloodshed and plunder but fear of retribution 
and self-interest. The Wanyamwezi bear the highest 
character for civilisation, discipline, and industry. In- 
tercourse with the coast, however, is speedily sapping 
the foundations of their superiority : the East African 
Expedition suffered more from thieving in this than in 
any other territory, and the Arabs now depend for 
existence there not upon prestige, but sufferance, in 
consideration of mutual commercial advantage. In pro- 
portion as the traveller advances into the interior, he 
finds the people less humane, or rather less human. 
The Wavinza, the Wajiji, and the other Lakist tribes, 
much resemble one another: they are extortionate, 
violent, and revengeful barbarians ; no Mnyamwezi 
dares to travel alone through their territories, and small 
parties are ever in danger of destruction. 

In dealing with the East African the traveller cannot 

z 2 



340 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

do better than to follow the advice of Bacon — " Use 
savages justly and graciously, with sufficient guard 
nevertheless." They must be held as foes ; and the 
prudent stranger will never put himself in their power, 
especially where life is concerned. The safety of a 
caravan will often depend upon the barbarian's fear of 
beginning the fray : if the onset once takes place, the 
numbers, the fierce looks, the violent gestures, and the 
confidence of the assailants upon their own ground, 
will probably prevail. When necessary, however, seve- 
rity must be employed; leniency and forbearance are 
the vulnerable points of civilised policy, as they en- 
courage attack by a suspicion of fear and weakness. 
They may be managed as the Indian saw directs, by 
a judicious mixture of the "Narm" and "Garm" — 
the soft and hot. Thus the old traders remarked in 
Guinea, that the best way to treat a black man was to 
hold out one hand to shake with him, while the other is 
doubled ready to knock him down. In trading with, or 
even when dwelling amongst this people, all display of 
wealth must be avoided. A man who would purchase 
the smallest article avoids showing anything beyond its 
equivalent. 

The ethnologist who compares this sketch with the 
far more favourable description of the Kafirs, a kindred 
race, given by travellers in South Africa, may suspect 
that only the darker shades of the picture are placed 
before the eye. But, as will appear in a future page, 
much of this moral degradation must be attributed to 
the working, through centuries, of the slave-trade : the 
tribes are no longer as nature made them; and from 
their connection with strangers they have derived no- 
thing but corruption. Though of savage and barbarous 
type, they have been varnished with the semi-civilisation 



Digitized by Google 



FETISSISM. 



341 



of trade and commerce, which sits ridiculously upon 
their minds as a rich garment would upon their persons. 

Fetissism — the word is derived from the Portuguese 
feitico, u a doing," — scil. of magic, by euphuism — is still 
the only faith known in East Africa. Its origin is 
easily explained by the aspect of the physical world, 
which has coloured the thoughts and has directed the 
belief of man : he reflects, in fact, the fantastical and 
monstrous character of the animal and vegetable pro- 
ductions around him. Nature, in these regions rarely 
sublime or beautiful, more often terrible and desolate, 
with the gloomy forest, the impervious jungle, the 
tangled hill, and the dread uniform waste tenanted by 
deadly inhabitants, arouses in his mind a sensation of 
utter feebleness, a vague and nameless awe. Untaught 
- to recommend himself for protection to a Superior 
Being, he addresses himself directly to the objects of 
his reverence and awe : he prostrates himself before the 
sentiment within him, hoping to propitiate it as he would 
satisfy a fellow-man. The grand mysteries of life and 
death, to him unrevealed and unexplained, the want of 
a true interpretation of the admirable phenomena of 
creation, and the vagaries and misconceptions of his 
own degraded imagination, awaken in him ideas of 
horror, and people the invisible world with ghost and 
goblin, demon and spectrum, the incarnations, as it were, 
of his own childish fears. Deepened by the dread of 
destruction, ever strong in the barbarian breast, his 
terror causes him to look with suspicion upon all around 
him : " How," inquires the dying African, " can I alone 
be ill when others arc well, unless I have been be- 
witched?" Hence the belief in magical and superna- 
tural powers in man, which the stronger minded have 
turned to their own advantage. 

z 3 



Digitized by Google 



34*2 THE LAKE RECJI0NS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Fetissism is the adoration, or rather the propitiation, 
of natural objects, animate and inanimate, to which 
certain mysterious influences are attributed. It admits 
neither god, nor angel, nor devil ; it ignores the very 
alphabet of revealed or traditionary religion — a crea- 
tion, a resurrection, a judgment-day, a soul or a spirit, a 
heaven or a hell. A modified practical atheism is thus 
the prominent feature of the superstition. Though in- 
stinctively conscious of a being above them, the Africans 
have as yet failed to grasp the idea: in their feeble 
minds it is an embryo rather than a conception — at the 
best a vague god, without personality, attributes, or pro- 
vidence. They call that being Mulungu, the Uhlunga 
of the Kafirs, and the Utika of the Hottentots. The 
term, however, may mean a ghost, the firmament, or the 
sun ; a man will frequently call himself Mulungu, and 
even Mulungu Mbaya, the latter word signifying bad or 
wicked. In the language of the Wamasai "Ai," or 
with the article "Engai" — the Creator — is feminine, 
the god and rain being synonymous. 

The Fetiss superstition is African, but not confined 
to Africa. The faith of ancient Egypt, the earliest 
system of profane belief known to man, with its Triad 
denoting the various phases and powers of nature, was 
essentially fetissi st; whilst in the Syrian mind dawned 
at first the idea of " Melkart," a god of earth, and his 
Baalim, angels, viceregents, or local deities. But 
generally the history of religions proves that when man, 
whether degraded from primal elevation or elevated 
from primal degradation, has progressed a step beyond 
atheism — the spiritual state of the lowest savagery — he 
advances to the modification called Fetissism, the con- 
dition of the infant mind of humanity. According 
to the late Col. Van Kennedy ; " such expressions as 



Digitized by Google 



ABORIGINAL ATHEISM 



343 



the love and fear of God never occur in the sacred 
books of the Hindus." The ancient Persians were 
ignicolists, adoring ethereal fire. Confucius owned that 
he knew nothing about the gods, and therefore preferred 
saying as little as possible upon the subject. Men, still 
without tradition or training, confused the Creator with 
creation, and ventured not to place the burden of pro- 
vidence upon a single deity. Slaves to the agencies of 
material nature, impressed by the splendours of the 
heavenly bodies, comforted by fire and light, persuaded 
by their familiarity with the habits of wild beasts that 
the brute creation and the human claimed a mysterious 
affinity, humbled by the terrors of elemental war, and 
benefitted by hero and sage, — 

" Quicquid humus, pelagus, coclum mirabilc gignunt, 
Id duxere deos." 

The barbarian worshipped these visible objects not as 
types, myths, divine emanations, or personifications of 
a deity: he adored them for themselves. The modern 
theory, the mode in which full-grown man explains 
away the follies of his childhood, making the interpre- 
tation precede the fable, fails when tested by experience. 
The Hindu, and, indeed, the ignorant Christian, still 
adore the actual image of man and beast; it is un- 
reasonable to suppose that they kneel before and worship 
with heart and soul its metaphysics ; and an attempt to 
allegorise it, or to deprive it of its specific virtues, 
would be considered, as in ancient Greece and Rome, 
mere impiety. 

By its essence, then, Fetissism is a rude and sensual 
superstition, the faith of abject fear, and of infant races 
that have not risen, and are, perhaps, incapable of rising 
to theism — the religion of love and the belief of the 

t 4 



Digitized by Google 



:U4 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



highest types of mankind. But old creeds die hard, 
and error, founded upon the instincts and feelings of 
human nature borrows the coherence and uniformity 
of truth. That Fetissism is a belief common to man in 
the childhood of his spiritual life, may be proved by the 
frequent and extensive remains of the faith which the 
cretinism of the Hamitic race has perpetuated amongst 
them to the present day, still sprouting like tares even 
in the fair field of revealed religion. The dread of 
ghosts, for instance, which is the mainstay of Fetissism, 
is not inculcated in any sacred book, yet the belief is 
not to be abolished. Thus the Rakshasa of the Hindus 
is a disembodied spirit, doing evil to mankind ; and the 
ghost of the prophet Samuel, raised by the familiar of 
the Witch of Endor, was the immortal part of a mortal 
being, still connected with earth, and capable of return- 
ing to it. Through the Manes, the Umbra, and the 
Spectrum of the ancients, the belief has descended to 
the moderns, as the household words ghost, goblin, and 
bogle, revenant, polter-geist, and spook, Duh, Dusha, 
and Dukh attest. Precisely similar to the African 
ghost- faith is the old Irish belief in Banshees, Pookas, 
and other evil entities ; the corporeal frame of the dead 
forms other bodies, but the spirit hovers in the air, 
watching the destiny of friends, haunting houses, killing 
children, injuring cattle, and causing disease and de- 
struction. Everywhere, too, their functions are the 
same: all are malevolent to the living, and they are 
seldom known to do good. The natural horror and 
fear of death which may be observed even in the lower 
animals has caused the dead to be considered vindictive 
and destructive. 

Some missionaries have detected in the habit, which 
prevails throughout Eastern and Western Africa, of 



Digitized by 



GHOST BELIEF. 



burying slaves with the deceased, of carrying provisions 
to graves, and of lighting fires on cold nights near the 
last resting-places of the departed, a continuation of 
relations between the quick aud the dead which points 
to a belief in a future state of existence. The wish is 
father to that thought: the doctrine of the soul, of 
immortality, belongs to a superior order of mind, to a 
more advanced stage of society. The belief, as its 
operations show, is in presentity, materialism, not in 
futurity, spiritualism. According to the ancients, man 
is a fourfold being: — 

" Bis duo sunt homini, manes, euro, spiritus, umbra : 

Quatuor ha*c loci bis duo suscipiunt 
Terra tegit carnein, tumulum circumvolitat umbra, 

Manes Orcus habet, spiritus astra petit." 

Take away the Manes and the astral Spirit, and remain s 
the African belief in the eftco^ov or Umbra, spiritus, or 
ghost. AVhen the savage and the barbarian are asked 
what has become of the " old people" (their ancestors), 
over whose dust and ashes they perform obsequies, these 
veritable secularists only smile and reply AVame-kwisha, 
u they are ended." It proves the inferior organisation 
of the race. Even the North American aborigines, 
a race which Nature apparently disdains to preserve, 
decided that man hath a future, since even Indian corn 
is vivified and rises again. The East African has 
created of his fears a ghost which never attains the 
perfect form of a soul. This inferior development has 
prevented his rising to the social status of the Hindu, 
and other anciently civilised races, whom a life wholly 
wanting in purpose and occupation drove from the 
excitement necessary to stimulate the mind towards 
a hidden or mysterious future. These wild races seek 



34G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



otherwise than in their faith a something to emotionise 
and to agitate them. 

The East African's Credenda — it has not arrived at 
the rank of a system, this vague and misty dawning of 
a creed — are based upon two main articles. The first 
is demonology, or, rather, the existence of Koma, the 
spectra of the dead ; the second is Uchawi, witchcraft 
or black magic, a corollary to the principal theorem. 
Few, and only the tribes adjacent to the maritime 
regions, have derived from El Islam a faint conception 
of the one Supreme. There is no trace in this country 
of the ancient and modern animal-worship of Egypt and 
India, though travellers have asserted that vestiges of 
it exist amongst the kindred race of Kafirs. The 
African has no more of Sabaeism than what belongs to 
the instinct of man : he has a reverence for the sun and 
moon, the latter is for evident reasons in higher esteem, 
but he totally ignores star- worship. If questioned con- 
cerning his daily bread, he will point with a devotional 
aspect towards the light of day ; and if asked what 
caused the death of his brother, will reply Jua, or 
Rim we, the sun. He has not, like the Kafir, a holiday 
at the epoch of new moon : like the Moslem, however, 
on first seeing it, he raises and claps his hands in token 
of obeisance. The Mzimo, or Fetiss hut, is the first 
germ of a temple, and the idea is probably derived from 
the Kurban of the Arabs. It is found throughout the 
country, especially in Uzaramo, Fnyamwezi, and Karag- 
wah. It is in the shape of a dwarf house, one or two feet 
high, with a thatched roof, but without walls. Upon 
the ground, or suspended from the roof, are handfuls of 
grain and small pots full of beer, placed there to pro- 
pitiate the ghosts, and to defend the crops from injury. 

A prey to base passions and melancholy godless fears, 



Digitized by 



WITCHCRAFT. 



347 



the Fetissist, who peoples with malevolent beings the 
invisible world, animates material nature with evil 
influences. The rites of his dark and deadly super- 
stition are all intended to avert evils from himself, by 
transferring them to others : hence the witchcraft and 
magic which flow naturally from the system of demon- 
ology. Men rarely die without the wife or children, 
the kindred or slaves, being accused of having com- 
passed their destruction by " throwing the glamour over 
them;" and, as has been explained, the trial and the 
conviction are of the most arbitrary nature. Yet 
witchcraft is practised by thousands with the firmest 
convictions in their own powers ; and though frightful 
tortures await the wizard and the witch who have been 
condemned for the destruction of chief or elder, the 
vindictiveness of the negro drives him readily to the 
malevolent practices of sorcery. As has happened in 
Europe and elsewhere, in the presence of torture and the 
instant advance of death, the sorcerer and sorceress will 
not only confess, but even boast of and believe in, their 
own criminality. " Verily I slew such a one ! — I brought 
about the disease of such another!" — these are their 
demented vaunts, the offspring of mental imbecilit} r , 
stimulated by traditional hallucination. 

In this state of spiritual death there is, as may be 
imagined, but little of the fire of fanaticism : polemics 
are as unknown as politics to them ; their succedaneum 
for a god is not a jealous god. But upon the subjects 
of religious belief and revelation all men are equal: 
Davus becomes (Edipus, the fool is as the sage. What, 
the " I " believes, that the " Thou " must acknowledge, 
under the pains and penalties of offending Self-esteem. 
Whilst the African's faith is weakly catholic, he will 
not admit that other men are wiser on this point than 



Digitized by Google 



348 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

himself. Yet he will fast like a Moslem, because doing 
something seems to raise him in the scale of creation. 
His mind, involved in the trammels of his superstition, 
and enchained by custom, is apparently incapable of 
receiving the impressions of El Islam. His Fetissism, 
unspiritualised by the philosophic Pantheism and P0I3*- 
theism of Europe and Asia, has hitherto unfitted him 
for that belief which was readily accepted by the more 
Semitic maritime races, the Somal, the Wasawahili, and 
the Wamrima. To a certain extent, also, it has been 
the policy of the Arab to avoid proselytising, which 
would lead to comparative equality: for sordid lucre 
the Moslem has left the souls of these Kafirs to eternal 
perdition. According to most doctors of the saving 
faith, an ardent proselytiser might convert by the sword 
whole tribes, though he might not succeed with indivi- 
duals, who cannot break through the ties of society. The 
" Mombas Mission," however, relying upon the powers 
of persuasion, unequivocally failed, and pronounced 
their flock to be " not behind the greatest infidels and 
scoffers of Europe : they blaspheme, in fact, like chil- 
dren. M With characteristic want of veneration they 
would say, " Your Lord is a bad master, for he does 
not cure his servants." When an early convert died, 
the Wanyika at once decided that there is no Saviour, 
as he does not prevent the decease of a friend. The 
sentiment generally elicited by a discourse upon the 
subject of the existence of a Deity is a desire to 
see him, in order to revenge upon him the deaths of 
relatives, friends, and cattle.* 

* That the "Western African negro resembles in this point his negroid 
brother, the following extract from an amusing and truthful little volume, 
entitled "Trade and Travels in the Gulf of Guinea and Western Africa" 
(London : Simpkin and Marshall, 1851), will prove : — 



Digitized by Google 



AFRICAN IRREVERENCE 



Fetissism supplies an abundance of professionally 
holy men. The "Mfumo" is translated by the Arabs 

Always anxious, — says Mr. J. Smitb, the author, — to get any of them 
(the Western Africans) to talk about God and religion, I said, "What have 
you been doing King Pepple ? " 

" All the same as you do, — I tank God." 

" For what?" 

" Every good ting God sends me." 
" Have you seen God ? " 

" Chi ! no ; — suppose man see God, he must die one minute." (lie would 
die in a moment.) 

44 When you die won't you see God ? " 

With great warmth, 44 1 know no savvy. (I don't know.) How should I 
know ? Never mind. I no want to hear more for that palaver." (I want 
no more talk on that subject.) 

44 What way ? " (Why ?) 

44 It no be your business, you come here for trade palaver." 

I knew — resumes Mr. Smith — it would be of no use pursuing the 
subject at that time, so I was silent, and it dropped for the moment. 

In speaking of him dying, I had touched a very tender and disagreeable 
chord, for he looked very savage and sulky, and I saw by the rapid changes 
in his countenance that he was the subject of some intense internal emotion. 
At length he broke out, using most violent gesticulations, and exhibiting a 
most inhuman expression of countenance, 44 Suppose God was here, I must 
kill him, one minute ! " 

44 You what ? you kill God ? " followed T, quite taken aback, and almost 
breathless with the novel and diabolical notion ; 44 You kill God P why, you 
talk all some fool" (like a fool); "you cannot kill God; and suppose it 
possible that God could die, everything would cease to exist. He is the 
Spirit of the universe. But he can kill you." 

44 1 know I cannot kill him ; but suppose I could kill him, I would." 

44 Where does God live ? " 

44 For top." 

44 How ? " He pointed to the zenith. 

44 And suppose you could, why would you kill him? " 

44 Because he makes men to die." 

44 Why, my friend," in a conciliatory manner, 44 you would not wish to live 
for ever, would you ? " 

44 Yes, I want to stand " (remain for ever). 

" But you will be old by and by, and if you live long enough, will 
become very in6rm, like that old man," pointing to a man very old for an 
African and thin, and lame, and almost blind, who had come into the court 
during the foregoing conversation, to ask for some favour (I wonder he had 
not been destroyed),— 44 and like him you will become lame, and deaf, and 



Digitized by Google 



350 THE LAKE REOIOXS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Bassar, a seer or clairvoyant The Mchawi is the 
Sahhar, magician, or adept in the black art. Amongst 
the Wazegura and the Wasagara is the Mgonezi, a word 
Arabised into Rammal or Geomantist. He practises 
the Miramoro, or divination and prediction of fray and 
famine, death and disease, by the relative position of 
small sticks, like spilikins, cast at random on the ground. 
The "rain-inaker," or " rain-doctor" of the Cape, common 
throughout these tribes, and extending far north of the 
equator, is called in East Africa Mganga, in the plural 
Waganga: the Arabs term him Tabib, doctor or physician. 

The Mganga, in the central regions termed Mfumo, 
may be considered as the rude beginning of a sacer- 
dotal order. These drones, who swarm throughout the 
land, are of both sexes : the women, however, generally 
confine themselves to the medical part of the profession. 
The calling is hereditary, the eldest or the cleverest son 
begins his neoteric education at an early age, and suc- 
ceeds to his father's functions. There is little mystery 
in the craft, and the magicians of Unyamwezi have not 
refused to initiate some of the Arabs. The power of 
the Mganga is great: he is treated as a sultan, whose 
word is law, and as a giver of life and death. He is 

blind, and will be able to take no pleasure ; would it not be better, then, for 
you to die when this takes place, and you are in pain and trouble, and so 
make room for your son, as your father did for you ? " 

44 No, it would not ; I want to stand all same I stand now." 

44 But supposing you should go to a place of happiness after death 
and 

44 1 no savvy nothing about that, I know that I now live, and have too 
many wives, and niggers (slaves), and canoes,'* (he did not mean what he said, 
in saying he had too many wives, &c, it is their way of expressing a great 
number,) 44 and that I am king, and plenty of ships come to my country. I 
know no other ting, and I want to stand/' 

I offered a reply, but he would hear no more, and so the conversation on 
that subject ceased ; and we proceeded to discuss one not much more agree- 
able to him — the payment of a very considerable debt which he owed me. 



THE RAIN'-MAKER. 351 

addressed by a kingly title, and is permitted to wear 
the chieftain's badge, made of the base of a conical 
shell. He is also known by a number of small greasy 
and blackened gourds, filled with physic and magic, 
hanging round his waist, and by a little more of the 
usual grime — sanctity and dirt being connected in 
Africa as elsewhere. These men are sent for from 
village to village, and receive as obventions and spi- 
ritual fees sheep and goats, cattle and provisions. Their 
persons, however, are not sacred, and for criminal acts 
they are punished like other malefactors. The greatest 
danger to them is an excess of fame. A celebrated 
magician rarely, if ever, dies a natural death : too much 
is expected from him, and a severer disappointment leads 
to consequences more violent than usual. The Arabs 
deride their pretensions, comparing them depreciatingly 
to the workers of Simiya, or conjuration, in their own 
country. They remark that the wizard can never pro- 
duce rain in the dry, or avert it in the wet season. 
The many, however, who, to use a West African phrase, 
have "become black" from a long residence in the coun- 
try, acquire a sneaking belief in the Waganga, and fear 
of their powers. The well-educated classes in Zanzibar 
consult these heathen, as the credulous of other Eastern 
countries go to the astrologer and geomantist, and in 
Europe to the clairvoyant and the tireuse de cartes. 
In one point this proceeding is wise : the wizard rarely 
wants wits; and whatever he has heard secretly or 
openly will inevitably appear in the course of his divi- 
nation. 

It must not be supposed, however, that the Mganga 
is purely an impostor. To deceive others thoroughly 
a man must first deceive himself, otherwise he will 
be detected by the least discerning. This is the 



Digitized by Google 



3,3 > 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



simple secret of so many notable successes, achieved 
in the most unpromising causes by self-reliance and 
enthusiasm, the parents of energy and consistence. 
These barbarians are more often sinned against by their 
own fears and fooleries of faith, than sinners against 
their fellow-men by fraud and falsehood. 

The office of Uganga includes many duties. The 
same man is a physician by natural and supernatural 
means, a mystagogue or medicine-man, a detector of 
sorcery, by means of the Judicium Dei or ordeal, a 
rain-maker, a conjuror, an augur, and a prophet. 

As a rule, all diseases, from a boil to marasmus 
senilis, are attributed by the Fetissist to P'hepo, Hubub, 
or Afflatus. The three words are synonymous. P'hepo, 
in Kisawahili, is the plural form of upepo (a zephyr), 
used singularly to signify a high wind, a whirlwind 
("devil"), and an evil ghost, generally of a Moslem. 
Hubub, the Arabic translation, means literally the 
blowing of wind, and metaphorically "possession." 
The African phrase for a man possessed is "ana p'hepo," 
" he has a devil." The Mganga is expected to heal the 
patient by expelling the possession. Like the evil 
spirit in the days of Saul, the unwelcome visitant must 
be charmed away by sweet music; the drums cause 
excitement, and violent exercise expels the ghost, as 
saltation nullifies in Italy the venom of the tarantula. 
The principal remedies are drumming, dancing, and 
drinking, till the auspicious moment arrives. The ghost 
is then enticed from the body of the possessed into 
some inanimate article, which he will condescend to 
inhabit. This, technically called a Keti, or stool, may 
be a certain kind of bead, two or more bits of wood 
bound together by a strip of snake's skin, a lion's or a 
leopard's claw, and other similar articles, worn round 



THE DEVIL'S TREE. 



358 



the head, the arm, the wrist, or the ankle. Paper is 
still considered great medicine by the Wasukuma and 
other tribes, who will barter valuable goods for a little 
bit : the great desideratum of the charm, in fact, appears 
to be its rarity, or the difficulty of obtaining it. Hence 
also the habit of driving nails into and hanging rags 
upon trees. The vegetable itself is not worshipped, as 
some Europeans who call it the " Devil's tree " have 
supposed : it is merely the place for the laying of 
ghosts, where by appending the Keti most acceptable 
to the spectrum, he will be bound over to keep the 
peace with man. Several accidents in the town of 
Zanzibar have confirmed even the higher orders in their 
lurking superstition. Mr. Peters, an English merchant, 
annoyed by the slaves who came in numbers to hammer 
nails and to hang iron hoops and rags upon a " Devil's 
tree" in his courtyard, ordered it to be cut down, to 
the horror of all the black beholders, of whom no one 
would lay an axe to it. Within six months five persons 
died in that house — Mr. Peters, his two clerks, his 
cooper, and his ship's carpenter. This superstition 
will remind the traveller of the Indian Pipul (Ficus 
religiosa), in which fiends are supposed to roost, and 
suggest to the Orientalist an explanation of the mys- 
terious Moslem practices common from Western Africa 
to the farthest East. The hanging of rags upon trees 
by pilgrims and travellers is probably a relic of Arab 
Fetissism, derived in the days of ignorance from their 
congeners in East Africa. The custom has spread far 
and wide : even the Irish peasantry have been in the 
habit of suspending to the trees and bushes near their 
" holy wells" rags, halters, and spancels, in token of 
gratitude for their recovery, or that of their cattle. 
There are other mystical means of restoring the sick 

VOL. II. A A 



Digitized by Google 



354 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to health ; one specimen will suffice. Several little 
sticks, like matches, are daubed with ochre, and marks 
are made with them upon the patient's body. A charm 
is chanted, the possessed one responds, and at the end 
of every stave an evil spirit flies from him, the signal 
being a stick cast by the Mganga upon the ground. 
Some unfortunates have as many as a dozen haunting 
ghosts, each of which has his own periapt : the 
Mganga demands a distinct honorarium for the several 
expulsions. Wherever danger is, fear will be ; wherever 
fear is, charms and spells, exorcisms and talismans of 
portentous powers will be in demand ; and wherever 
supernaturalisms are in requisition, men will be found, 
for a consideration, to supply them. 

These strange rites are to be explained upon the 
principle which underlies thaumaturgy in general : 
they result from conviction in a gross mass of exagge- 
rations heaped by ignorance, falsehood, and credulity, 
upon the slenderest foundation of fact — a fact doubt- 
less solvable by the application of natural laws. The 
African temperament has strong susceptibilities, com- 
bined with what appears to be a weakness of brain, and 
great excitability of the nervous system, as is proved 
by the prevalence of epilepsy, convulsions, and hys- 
teric disease. According to the Arab, El Sara, epi- 
lepsy, or the falling sickness, is peculiarly common 
throughout East Africa ; and, as we know by experience 
in lands more civilised, the sudden prostration, rigidity, 
contortions, &c. of the patient, strongly suggest the 
idea that he has been taken and seized (nrita^dff?) 
by, as it were, some external and invisible agent. 
The negroid is, therefore, peculiarly liable to the 
epidemical mania called " Phantasmata," which, ac- 
cording to history, has at times of great mental 



Digitized by 



" POSSESSION." 355 

agitation and popular disturbance broken out in 
different parts of Europe, and which, even in this our 
day, forms the basework of " revivals." Thus in Africa 
the objective existence of spectra has become a tenet of 
belief. Stories that stagger the most sceptical are told 
concerning the phenomenon by respectable and not 
unlearned Arabs, who point to their fellow-countrymen 
as instances. Salim bin Rashid, a half-caste merchant, 
well known at Zanzibar, avers, and his companions bear 
witness to his words, that on one occasion, when travel- 
ling northwards from Unyanyembe, the possession 
occurred to himself. During the night two female 
slaves, his companions, of whom one was a child, fell, 
without apparent cause, into the fits which denote the 
approach of a spirit. Simultaneously, the master 
became as one intoxicated ; a dark mass, material, not 
spiritual, entered the tent, and he felt himself pulled 
and pushed by a number of black figures, whom he 
had never before seen. He called aloud to his com- 
panions and slaves, who, vainly attempting to enter 
the tent, threw it down, and presently found him in a 
state of stupor, from which he did not recover till the 
morning. The same merchant circumstantially related, 
and called witnesses to prove, that a small slave-boy, 
who was produced on the occasion, had been frequently 
carried off by possession, even when confined in a 
windowless room, with a heavy door carefully bolted 
and padlocked. Next morning the victim was not 
found, although the chamber remained closed. A few 
days afterwards he was met in the jungle wandering 
absently like an idiot, and with speech too incoherent 
to explain what had happened to him. The Arabs of 
Oman, who subscribe readily to transformation, deride 
these tales ; those of African blood believe them. The 

? A 2 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



transformation-belief, still so common in Maskat, 
Abyssinia, Somali land, and the Cape, and anciently 
an almost universal superstition, is, curious to say, 
unknown amongst these East African tribes. The 
Wahiao, lying between Kilwa and the Nyassa Lake, 
preserve, however, a remnant of the old creed in their 
conviction, that a malevolent magician can change a 
man after death into a lion, a leopard, or a hyama. On 
the Zambezi the people, according to Dr. Living- 
stone (chap, xxx.), believe that a chief may metamor- 
phose himself into a lion, kill any one he chooses, and 
then return to the human form. About Tete (chap, 
xxxi.) the negroids hold that, "while persons are still 
living, they may enter into lions and alligators, and 
then return again to their own bodies." Travellers 
determined to find in Africa counterparts of European 
and Asiatic tenets, argue from this transformation a 
belief in the "transmigration of souls." They thus 
confuse material metamorphosis with a spiritual pro- 
gress, which is assuredly not an emanation from the 
Hamitic mind. The Africans have hitherto not bewil- 
dered their brains with metaphysics, and, ignoring the 
idea of a soul, which appears to be a dogma of the 
Caucasian race, they necessarily ignore its immor- 
tality. 

The second, and, perhaps, the most profitable occu- 
pation of the Mganga, is the detection of Uchawi, or 
black magic. The fatuitous style of conviction, and the 
fearful tortures which, in the different regions, await 
those found guilty, have already been described, as far 
as description is possible. Amongst a people where the 
magician is a police detector, ordeals must be expected 
to thrive. The Baga or Kyapo of East Africa— the 
Arabs translate it El Halaf, or the Oath — is as cruel, 



Digitized by Google 



ORDEAL. 



3.57 



absurd, and barbarous, as the red water of Ashanti, the 
venoms of Kasanji (Cassange), the muavi of the Banyai 
tribes of Monomotapa, the Tangina poison of the Mala- 
gash, the bitter water of the Jews, the " saucy- water " 
of West Africa, and the fire tests of mediajval Europe. 
The people of Usurabara thrust a red-hot hatchet into 
the mouth of the accused. Among the south-eastern 
tribes a heated iron spike, driven into some tender part 
of the person, is twice struck with a log of wood. The 
Wazararao dip the hand into boiling water, the Waganda 
into seething oil ; and the Wazegura prick the ear with 
the stiffest bristles of a gnu's tail. The Wakwafi have 
an ordeal of meat that chokes the guilty. The Wan- 
yamwezi pound with water between two stones, and 
infuse a poisonous bark called " Mwavi : " it is first 
administered by the Mganga to a hen, who, for the 
nonce, represents the suspected. If, however, all parties 
be not satisfied with such trial, it is duly adhibited to 
the accused. 

In East Africa, from Somaliland to the Cape, and 
throughout the interior amongst the negroids and negroes 
north as well as south of the equator, the rain-maker or 
rain-doctor is a personage of consequence; and he does not 
fail to turn the hopes and fears of the people to his own 
advantage. A season of drought causes dearth, disease, and 
desolation amongst these improvident races, who there- 
fore connect every strange phenomenon with the object 
of their desires, a copious wet monsoon. The enemy 
has medicines which disperse the clouds. The stranger 
who brings with him heavy showers is regarded as a 
being of good omen ; usually, however, the worst is ex- 
pected from the novel portent ; he will, for instance, be 
accompanied and preceded by fertilising rains, but the 
wells and springs will dry up after his departure, and 

A A 3 



Digitized by Google 



3J8 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the result will be drought or small-pox. These rumours 
which may account for the Lybian stranger-sacri- 
fices in the olden time, are still dangerous to travellers. 
The Mganga must remedy the evil. His spells are those 
of fetissists in general, the mystic use of something foul, 
poisonous, or difficult to procure, such as the album 
gnecum of hyanas, snakes' fangs, or lions* hair ; these 
and similar articles are collected with considerable 
trouble by the young men of the tribe for the use of the 
rain-maker. But he is a weatherwise man, and rains in 
tropical lands are easily foreseen. Not unfrequently, 
however, he proves himself a false prophet ; and when 
all the resources of cunning fail he must fly for dear 
life from the victims of his delusion. 

The Mganga is also a predictor and a soothsayer. He 
foretels the success or failure of commercial undertak- 
ings, of wars, and of kidnapping-commandos; he foresees 
famine and pestilence, and he suggests the means of 
averting calamities. He fixes also, before the com- 
mencement of any serious affair, fortunate conjunctions, 
without which a good issue cannot be expected. He 
directs expiatory offerings. His word is ever powerful 
to expedite or to delay the march of a caravan ; and in 
his quality of augur he considers the flight of birds and 
the cries of beasts, like his prototype of the same class 
in ancient Europe and in modern Asia. 

The principal instrument of the Mganga's craft is one 
of the dirty little buyu or gourds which he wears in a 
bunch round his waist ; and the following is the usual 
programme when the oracle is to be consulted. The 
magician brings his implements in a bag of matting; 
his demeanour is serious as the occasion ; he is carefully 
greased, and his head is adorned with the diminutive 
antelope-horns fastened by a thong of leather above the 



¦ 



Digitized by Googl 



PREDICTION. 



forehead. He sits like a sultan upon a dwarf stool in 
front of the querist, and begins by exhorting the highest 
possible offertory. No pay, no predict. Divination by 
the gourd has already been described ; the Mganga has 
many other implements of his craft. Some prophesy 
by the motion of berries swimming in a cup full of water, 
which is placed upon a low stool surrounded by four 
tails of the zebra or the buffalo lashed to sticks planted 
upright in the ground. The Kasanda is a system of 
folding triangles not unlike those upon which plaything 
soldiers are mounted. Held in the right hand, it is 
thrown out, and the direction of the end points to 
the safe and auspicious route ; this is probably the 
rudest appliance of prestidigitation. The shero is a bit of 
wood about the size of a man's hand, and not unlike a 
pair of bellows, with a dwarf handle, a projection like 
a nozzle, and in the circular centre a little hollow. This 
is filled with water, and a grain or fragment of wood, 
placed to float, gives an evil omen if it tends towards 
the sides, and favourable if it veers towards the handle 
or the nozzle. The Mganga generally carries about 
with him to announce his approach a kind of rattle 
called " sanje." This is a hollow gourd of pine-apple 
shape, pierced with various holes, prettily carved and 
half filled with maize, grains, and pebbles ; the handle 
is a stick passed through its length and secured by 
cross-pins. 

The Mganga has many minor duties. In elephant 
hunts he must throw the first spear and endure the 
blame if the beast escapes. He marks ivory with spots 
disposed in lines and other figures, and thus enables it 
to reach the coast without let or hindrance. He loads 
the kirangozi or guide with charms and periapts to 
defend him from the malice which is ever directed 



Digitized by Google 



SfiO 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



at a leading man, and sedulously forbids him to 
allow precedence even to the Mtongi, the commander 
and proprietor of the caravan. He aids his tribe by 
magical arts in wars, by catching a bee, reciting over it 
certain incantations, and loosing it in the direction of the 
foe, when the insect will instantly summon an army of its 
fellows and disperse a host, however numerous. This 
belief well illustrates the easy passage of the natural 
into the supernatural. The land being full of swarms, 
and man's body being wholly exposed, many a caravan 
has been dispersed like chaff before the wind by a bevy 
of swarming bees. Similarly in South Africa the 
magician kicks an ant-hill and starts wasps which put 
the enemy to flight. And in the books of the Hebrews 
we read that the hornet sent before the children of 
Israel against the Amorite was more terrible than sword 
or bow. (Joshua, xxiv.) 

The several tribes in East Africa present two forms 
of government, the despotic and the semi-monarchical. 

In the despotic races, the Wakilima or mountaineers 
of Chhaga, for instance, the subjects are reduced to the 
lowest state of servility. All, except the magicians and 
the councillors, are " Wasoro " — soldiers and slaves to 
the sultan, mangi, or sovereign. The reader will bear 
in mind that the word " sultan" is the Arabic term ap- 
plied generically by traders to all the reguli and roitelets, 
the chiefs and headmen, whose titles vary in every region. 
In Uzaramo the Sultan is called p'hazi ; in Khutu, p'hazi 
or mundewa ; in Usagara, mundewa ; in Ugogo, mteme ; 
in Unyamwezi, mwami ; in Ujiji and Karagwah, rakama. 
" Wazir " is similarly used by the Arabs for the principal 
councillor or minister, whose African name in the several 
tribes is mwene goha, mbaha, tuzagird, magawe, mhaugo, 
and muhinda. The elders are called throughout the 



Digitized by Google 



FORMS OF GOVERNMENT. 



301 



country Wagosi and W&nyap'hara; they form the coun- 
cil of the chief. All male children are taken from their 
mothers, are made to live together, and are trained to 
the royal service, to guarding the palace, to tilling the 
fields, and to keeping the watercourses in order. The 
despot is approached with fear and trembling ; subjects 
of both sexes must stand at a distance, and repeatedly 
clap their palms together before venturing to address 
him. Women always bend the right knee to the earth, 
and the chief acknowledges the salutation with a nod. 
At times the elders and even the women inquire of the 
ruler what they can do to please him : he points to a 
plot of ground which he wishes to be cleared, and this 
corvie is the more carefully performed, as he fines them 
in a bullock if a weed be left unplucked. In war female 
captives are sold by the king, and the children are kept 
to swell the number of his slaves. None of the Wasoro 
may marry without express permission. The king has 
unlimited power of life and death, which he exercises 
without squeamishness, and a general right of sale over 
his subjects ; in some tribes, as those of Karagwah, 
Uganda, and Unyoro, he is almost worshipped. It is a 
capital offence to assume the name of a Sultan ; even a 
stranger so doing would be subjected to fines and other 
penalties. The only limit to the despot's power is the 
Ada, or precedent, the unwritten law of ancient custom, 
which is here less mutable than the codes and pandects 
of Europe. The African, like the Asiatic, is by nature 
a conservative, at once the cause and the effect of his 
inability to rise higher in the social scale. The king 
lives in a manner of barbarous state. He has large 
villages crowded with his families and slaves. He never 
issues from his abode without an armed mob, and he 
disdains to visit even the wealthiest Arabs. The monar- 



Digitized by Google 



362 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



chical tribes are legitimists of the good old school, dis- 
daining a Tiovu8 homo ; and the consciousness of power 
invests their princes with a certain dignity and majesty 
of demeanour. As has been mentioned, some of the 
Sultans whose rule has the greatest prestige, appear, from 
physical peculiarities, to be of a foreign and a nobler 
origin. 

In the aristocratical or semi-monarchical tribes, as the 
Wanyamwezi, the power of the Sultan depends mainly 
upon his wealth, importance, and personal qualifications 
for the task of rule. A chief enabled to carry out a 
" fist-right " policy will raise himself to the rank of a 
despot, and will slay and sell his subjects without mercy. 
Though surrounded by a council varying from two to a 
score of chiefs and elders, who are often related or 
connected with him, and who, like the Arab shayks, 
presume as much as possible in ordering this and forbid- 
ding that, he can disregard and slight them. More 
often, however, his authority is circumscribed by a rude 
balance of power ; the chiefs around him can probably 
bring as many warriors into the field as he can. When 
weak, the sultan has little more authority than the 
patell of an Indian village or the shaykh of a Bedouin 
tribe. Yet even when the chief cannot command in his 
own clan, he is an important personage to travelling 
merchants and strangers. He can cause a quarrel, an 
advance, or an assassination, and he can quiet brawls 
even when his people have been injured. He can open 
a road by providing porters, or bar a path by deterring 
a caravan from proceeding, or by stopping the sale of 
provisions. Thus it is easy to travel amongst races 
whose chiefs are well disposed to foreigners, and the 
utmost circumspection becomes necessary when the 
headmen; are grasping and inhospitable. Upon the whole, 



Digitized by Google 



THE SULTAN. 



3G3 



the chiefs are wise enough to encourage the visits of 
traders. 

A patriarchal or purely republican form of govern- 
ment is unknown in East Africa. The Wasagara, it is 
true, choose their chief like the Banyai of " Monomotapa," 
but, once elected, he becomes a monarch. Loyalty — or, 
to reduce it to its elements, veneration for the divinity 
that hedges in a king — is a sentiment innate in the 
African mind. Man, however, in these regions is not a 
political animal; he has a certain instinctive regard for 
his chief and a respect for his elders. He ignores, how- 
ever, the blessings of duly limited independence and the 
natural classification of humanity into superior and 
inferior, and honours — the cheap pay of nations — are 
unknown. He acknowledges no higher and lower social 
strata. His barbarism forbids the existence of a learned 
oligarchy, of an educated community, or of a church 
and state, showing the origin of the connection between 
the soul and body of society. Man being equal to man, 
force being the only law and self the sole consideration, 
mutual jealousy prevents united efforts and deadens 
all patriotic spirit. No one cares for the public good ; 
the welfare of the general must yield to the most con- 
temptible individual interests ; civil order and security 
are therefore unknown, and foreign relations cannot 
exist. 

In the lowest tribes the chieftain is a mere nonentity, 
" a Sultan," as the Arabs say, " within his own walls." 
His subjects will boast, like the Somal, that he is " tan- 
quam unus ex nobis ;" and they are so sensible of restraint 
that " girdles and garters would be to them bonds and 
shackles " metaphorically as well as literally. The posi- 
tion of these Sultans is about equal to that of the diwans 
of the Mrima ; their dignity is confined to sitting upon 



Digitized by Google 



3G4 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



a dwarf three-legged stool, to wearing more brass wire 
than beads, and to possessing clothes a little better than 
those of their subjects. The " regulus " must make a 
return present to strangers after receiving their offerings, 
and in some cases must begin with gifts. He must listen 
to the words of his councillors and elders, who, being 
without salary, claim a portion of the presents and 
treasure-trove, interfere on all occasions of blackmail, 
fines, and penalties, demand from all petitioners gifts 
and bribes to secure interest, and exert great influence 
over the populace. 

Legitimacy is the rule throughout the land, and the 
son, usually the eldest, succeeds to the father, except 
amongst the Wasukuma of N. Unyamwezi, where the 
line of descent is by the sister's son — the " surer side " 
— for the normal reason, to secure some of the blood 
royal for ruling. Even the widows of the deceased 
become the property of the successor. This truly 
African practice prevails also amongst the Bachwana, 
and presents another of those curious points of resem- 
blance between the Hamite and Semite races which have 
induced modern ethnologists to derive the Arab from 
Africa. The curious custom amongst the Wanyamwezi 
of devising property to illegitimate children is not carried 
out in the succession to power. Where there are many 
sons, all, as might be expected, equally aspire to power ; 
sometimes, however, of two brothers, one will consent to 
hold authority under the other. In several tribes, espe- 
cially in Usukuma, the widow of a chief succeeds to his 
dignity in default of issue. 

Punishments are simple in East Africa. The sar, 
vendetta or blood-feud, and its consequence, the diyat or 
weregeld, exist in germ, unreduced, as amongst the 
more civilised Arabs, to an artful and intricate system. 



Digitized by Google 



REVENUE. 



But these customs are founded, unlike ours, upon bar- 
barous human nature. Instinct prompts a man to slay 
the slayer of his kith and kin ; the offence is against the 
individual, not the government or society. He must 
reason to persuade himself that the crime, being com- 
mitted against the law, should be left to the law for no- 
tice ; he wants revenge, and he cares nought for punish- 
ment or example for the prevention of crime. The 
Sultan encourages the payment of blood-money to the 
relatives of the deceased, or, if powerful enough, claims 
it himself, rather than that one murder should lead to 
another, and eventually to a chronic state of bloodshed 
and confusion. Thus, in some tribes the individual re- 
venges himself, and in others he commits his cause to 
the chief. Here he takes an equivalent in cattle for the 
blood of a brother or the loss of a wife ; there he visits 
the erring party with condign punishment. The result 
of such deficiency of standard is a want of graduation 
in severity ; a thief is sometimes speared and beheaded, 
or sold into slavery after all his property has been ex- 
torted by the chief, the councillors, and the elders, whilst 
a murderer is perhaps only fined. 

The land in East Africa is everywhere allodial ; it 
does not belong to the ruler, nor has the dawn of the 
feudal system yet arisen there. A migratory tribe gives 
up its rights to the soil, contrary to the mortmain 
system of the Arab Bedouins, and, if it would return, 
it must return by force. The Sultan, however, exacts 
a fee from all immigrants settling in his territory. 

The sources of revenue in East Africa are uncertain, 
desultory, and complicated. The agricultural tribes 
pay yearly a small per centage of grain ; this, however, 
is the office of the women, who are expert in fraud. 
Neither sowing nor harvest can take place without 



Digitized by Google 



366 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

the chief's permission, and the issue of his order is 
regulated by his own interests. Amongst the hunting 
tribes, slain elephants become the hunter's property, 
but the Sultan claims as treasure-trove a tusk of any 
animal found wounded or dead in his dominions, and 
in all cases the spoils of dead lions are crown pro- 
perty. The flesh of game is distributed amongst the 
elders and the ruling family, who also assert a claim to 
the cloth or beads purchased by means of the ivory from 
caravans. Some have abditaria and considerable stores 
of the articles most valued by barbarians. Through- 
out the slave-paths the chiefs have learned to raise 
revenue from the slaves, who thus bribe them to forbear 
from robbery. But whilst the stronger require large 
gifts without return, the weaker make trifling presents, 
generally of cattle or provisions, and expect many times 
the value in brass wire, cloth, and beads. The stranger 
may refuse these offerings ; it is, however, contrary to 
custom, and as long as he can afford it he should submit 
to the imposition. Fiscs and fines are alarmingly fre- 
quent. If the monsoon-rains delay, the chief summons 
a Mganga to fix upon the obstructor; he is at once 
slain, and his property is duly escheated. The Sultan 
claims the goods and chattels of all felons and executed 
criminals, even in the case of a servant put to death by 
his master. In the more republican tribes the chief 
lives by the sweat of his slaves. Briefly, East Africa 
presents an instructive study of human society in its 
first stage after birth. 

I will conclude this uninteresting chapter — attribute 
its dulness, gentle reader, to the effects of the climate 
and society of Konduchi — with a subject which strikes 
home to the heart of every Englishman, slavery. 

The origin of slavery in East Africa is veiled in the 



Digitized by Google 



SLAVERY. 



glooms o the past. It is mentioned in the Periplus 
(chap, iii.), as an institution of the land, and probably 
it was the result of the ancient trade with southern 
Arabia. At present it is almost universal: with the 
exceptions of the Wahinda, the Watosi, and the Wagogo, 
all the tribes from the eastern equatorial coast to Ujiji 
and the regions lying westward of the Tanganyika 
Lake may be called slave-races. An Arab, Msawahili, 
and even a bondsman from Zanzibar, is everywhere 
called Murungwana or freeman. Yet in many parts of 
the country the tribes are rather slave-importers than 
exporters. Although they kidnap others, they will not 
sell their fellows, except when convicted of crime — 
theft, magic, murder, or cutting the upper teeth before 
the lower. In times of necessity, however, a man will 
part with his parents, wives, and children, and when 
they fail he will sell himself without shame. As has 
been observed, amongst many tribes the uncle has a 
right to dispose of his nephews and nieces. 

Justice requires the confession that the horrors of 
slave-driving rarely meet the eye in East Africa. 
Some merchants chain or cord together their gangs for 
safer transport through regions where desertion is at a 
premium. Usually, however, they trust rather to soft 
words and kind treatment ; the fat lazy slave is often 
seen stretched at ease in the shade, whilst the master 
toils in the sun and wind. The " property" is well fed 
and little worked, whereas the porter, belonging to none 
but himself, is left without hesitation to starve upon the 
road-side. The relationship is rather that of patron 
and client than of lord and bondsman; the slave is 
addressed as Ndugu-yango, "my brother," and he is 
seldom provoked by hard words or stripes. In fact, 
the essence of slavery, compulsory unpaid labour, is 



Digitized 



368 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA 



perhaps more prevalent in independent India than in 
East Africa ; moreover, there is no adscriptus glebae, us 
in the horrid thraldom of Malabar. To this general 
rule there are terrible exceptions, as might be expected 
amongst a people with scant regard for human life. 
The Kirangozi, or guide, attached to the Expedition on 
return from Ujiji, had loitered behind for some days 
because his slave girl was too footsore to walk. When 
tired of waiting he cut off her head, for fear lest she 
should become gratis another man's property. 

In East Africa there are two forms of this traffic, the 
export and the internal trade. For the former slaves 
are collected like ivories throughout the length and 
breadth of the land. They are driven down from the 
principal depots, the island of Kasenge, Ujiji, Unyany- 
erabe, and Zungomero to the coast by the Arab and 
AVasawahili merchants, who afterwards sell them in 
retail at the great mart, Zanzibar. The internal trade 
is carried on between tribe and tribe, and therefore 
will long endure. 

The practice of slavery in East Africa, besides de- 
moralising and brutalising the race, leads to the results 
which effectually bar increase of population and pro- 
gress towards civilisation. These are commandos, or 
border wars, and intestine confusion. 

All African wars, it has been remarked, are for one 
of two objects, cattle-lifting or kidnapping. Some of the 
pastoral tribes — as the Wamasai, the Wakwafi, the 
Watuta, and the Warori — assert the theory that none 
but themselves have a right to possess herds, and that 
they received the gift directly from their ancestor who 
created cattle ; in practice they covet the animals 
for the purpose of a general gorge. Slaves, how- 
ever, are much more frequently the end and aim of 



Digitized by Google 



KIDNAPPING. 360 

feud and foray. The process of kidnapping, an in- 
veterate custom in these lands, is in every way agreeable 
to the mind of the man-hunter. A "multis utile helium" 
it combines the pleasing hazards of the chase with the 
exercise of cunning and courage; the battue brings 
martial glory and solid profit, and preserves the bar- 
barian from the listlessness of life without purpose. 
Thus men date from foray to foray, and pass their days 
in an interminable blood-feud and border war. A poor 
and powerful chief will not allow his neighbours to rest 
wealthier than himself ; a quarrel is soon found, the 
stronger attacks the weaker, hunts and harries his 
cattle, burns his villages, carries off his subjects and 
sells them to the first passing caravan. The inhabitants 
of the land have thus become wolves to one another ; 
their only ambition is to dispeople and destroy, and the 
blow thus dealt to a thinly populated country strikes at 
the very root of progress and prosperity. 

As detrimental to the public interests as the border 
wars is the intestine confusion caused by the slave trade. 
It perpetuates the vile belief in Uchawi or black magic : 
when captives are in demand, the criminal's relations 
are sold into slavery. It affords a scope for the 
tyranny of a chief, who, if powerful enough, will enrich 
himself by vending his subjects in wholesale and retail. 
By weakening the tie of family, it acts with deadly 
effect in preventing the increase of the race. 

On the coast and in the island of Zanzibar the slaves 
are of two kinds — the Muwallid or domestic, born in 
captivity, and the wild slave imported from the in- 
terior. 

In the former case the slave is treated as one of the 
family, because the master's comfort depends upon the 
man being contented ; often also his sister occupies the 

VOL. II. B B 



Digitized by Google 



370 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

dignified position of concubine to the head of the house 
These slaves vary greatly in conduct. The most 
tractable are those belonging to the Diwans and the 
Wasawahili generally, who treat them with the utmost 
harshness and contempt. The Arabs spoil them by a 
kinder usage ; few employ the stick, the salib, or cross 
— a forked pole to which the neck and ankles are lashed 
— and the raakantale or stocks, for fear of desertion. 
Yet the slave if dissatisfied silently leaves the house, 
lets himself to another master, and returns after perhaps 
two years' absence as if nothing had occurred. Thus 
he combines the advantages of freedom and slavery. 
Moreover, it is a proverb among the Arabs that a slave 
must desert once in his life, and he does so the more 
readily as he betters his condition by so doing. The 
worst in all points are those belonging to the Banyans, 
the Indians, and other European subjects ; they know 
their right to emancipation, and consult only their own 
interests and inclinations. The Muwallid or domestic 
slave is also used like the Pombeiro of West Africa. 
From Unyamwezi and Ujiji he is sent to traffic in the 
more dangerous regions — the master meanwhHe dwel- 
ling amongst his fellow countrymen in some comfortable 
Tembe. This proceeding has greatly injured the com- 
merce of the interior, and necessitates yearly lengthening 
journeys. The slave intrusted with cloth and beads 
suddenly becomes a great man; he is lavish in sup- 
porting the dignity of a fundi or fattore, and con- 
sulting nothing but his own convenience, he will loiter 
for six months at a place where he has been sent for a 
week. Thus it is that ivory sold in Unyamwezi but a 
dozen years ago at 10 lbs. for 1 lb. of beads now fetches 
nearly weight for weight. And this is a continually 
increasing evil. No caravan, however, can safely tra- 



Digitized by 



SLAVES AT ZANZIBAR. 



371 



verse the interior without an escort of slave-musketeers. 
They never part with their weapons, even when passing 
from house to house, holding that their lives depend 
upon their arms; they beg, borrow, or steal powder 
and ball; in fact they are seldom found unready. 
They will carry nothing but the lightest gear, the 
master's writing-case, bed, or praying-mat; to load 
them heavily would be to ensure desertion. Contrary 
to the practice of the free porter, they invariably steal 
when they run away ; they are also troublesome about 
food, and they presume upon their weapons to take 
liberties with the liquor and the women of the heathen. 

The imported slaves again are of two different classes. 
Children are preferred to adults ; they are Islamised and 
educated so as to resemble the Muwallid, though they 
are even somewhat less tame. Full-grown serfs are 
bought for predial purposes ; they continue indocile, and 
alter little by domestication. When not used by the 
master they are left to plunder or to let themselves out 
for food and raiment, and when dead they are cast into 
the sea or into the nearest pit. These men are the 
scourge of society ; no one is safe from their violence ; 
and to preserve a garden or an orchard from the depre- 
dations of the half-starved wretches, a guard of muske- 
teers would be required. They are never armed, yet, 
as has been recounted, they have caused at Zanzibar 
servile wars, deadly and lasting as those of ancient 
Rome. 

Arabs declare that the barbarians are improved by 
captivity — a partial theory open to doubt. The servum 
pecus retain in thraldom that wildness and obstinacy 
which distinguish the people and the lower animals of 
their native lands ; they are trapped, but not tamed ; 
they become captives, but not civilised. However 



372 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

trained, they are probably the worst servants in the 
world ; a slave-household is a model of discomfort. The 
wretches take a trouble and display an ingenuity in 
opposition and disobedience, in perversity, annoyance, 
and villany, which rightly directed would make them 
invaluable. The old definition of a slave still holds 
good —"an animal that eats as much and does as little 
as possible." Clumsy and unhandy, dirty and careless, 
he will never labour unless ordered to do so, and so 
futile is his nature that even the inducement of the stick 
cannot compel him to continue his exertions ; a whole 
gang will barely do the work of a single servant. He 
" has no end," to use the Arab phrase : that is to say, 
however well he may begin, he will presently tire of his 
task ; he does not and apparently he will not learn ; his 
first impulse, like that of an ass, is not to obey ; he then 
thinks of obeying ; and if fear preponderate he finally 
may obey. He must deceive, for fraud and foxship are 
his force ; when detected in some prodigious act of ras- 
cality, he pathetically pleads, "Am I not a slave ?" So 
wondrous are his laziness and hate of exertion, that 
despite a high development of love of life he often appears 
the most reckless of mortals. He will run away from 
the semblance of danger ; yet on a journey he will tie 
his pipe to a leaky keg of gunpowder, and smoke it in 
that position rather than take the trouble to undo it. 
A slave belonging to Musa, the Indian merchant at 
Kazeh, unwilling to rise and fetch a pipe, opened the 
pan of his musket, filled it with tobacco and fire, and 
beginning to inhale it from the muzzle blew out his 
brains. Growing confident and impudent from the 
knowledge of how far he may safely go, the slave 
presumes to the utmost. He steals instinctively, like 
a magpie : a case is quoted in which the gold spangles 



Digitized by 



" Til ERE IS NO GOOD IN THE BONDSMAN." 373 

were stripped from an officer's sword-belt whilst dining 
with the Prince of Zanzibar. The slave is almost always 
half-naked ; whatever clothes he obtains from the master 
are pawned or sold in the bazar; hence he must pilfer 
and plunder almost openly for the means of gratifying 
his lowest propensities, drinking and intrigue. He 
seems to acquire from captivity a greater capacity for 
debauchery than even in his native wilds ; he has learned 
irregularities unknown to his savage state: it is the 
brutishness of negroid nature brought out by the cheap 
and readily attainable pleasures of semi-civilisation. 
Whenever on moonlight nights the tapping of the tomtom 
responds to the vile squeaking of the fife, it is impossible 
to keep either a male or female slave within doors. All 
rendezvous at the place, and, having howled and danced 
themselves into happiness, conclude with a singularly 
disorderly scene. In the town of Zanzibar these 
" Ngoma" or dances were prohibited for moral reasons 
by the late Sayyid. The attachment of a slave to his 
master is merely a development of selfishness ; it is a 
greater insult to abuse the Ahbab (patroon), than, 
according to Eastern fashion, the father and mother, 
the wife and sister. No slave-owner, however, praises 
a slave or relies upon his fidelity. The common expres- 
sion is, " There is no good in the bondsman." 

Like the Somal, a merry and light-hearted race in 
foreign countries, but rendered gloomy and melancholy 
by the state of affairs at home, the negroid slaves 
greatly improve by exportation : they lose much of the 
surliness and violence which distinguish them at Zanzi- 
bar, and are disciplined into a kind of respect for 
superiors. Thus, "Seedy Mubarak" is a prime favourite 
on board an Indian steamer; he has also strength and 
courage enough to make himself respected. But " Seedy 

8 B 3 



Digitized by Google 



874 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Mubarak " has tasted the intoxicating draught of liberty, 
he is in high good humour with himself and with all 
around him, he is a slave merely in origin, he has been 
adopted into the great family of free men, and with it 
he has identified all his interests. Eastern history 
preserves instances of the valour and faithfulness of 
bondsmen, as the annals of the West are fond of record- 
ing the virtues of dogs. Yet all the more civilised races 
have a gird at the negro. In the present day the 
Persians and other Asiatics are careful, when bound on 
distant or dangerous journeys, to mix white servants 
with black slaves ; they hold the African to be full of 
strange childish caprices, and to be ever at heart a 
treacherous and bloodthirsty barbarian. Like the 
"bush-negroes" of Surinam, once so dangerous to the 
Dutch, the runaway slaves from Zanzibar have formed 
a kind of East African Liberia, between Mount Yombo 
and the Shimba section of the Eastern Ghauts. They 
have endangered the direct caravan-road from Mombasah 
to Usumbara ; and though trespassing upon the terri- 
tory of fhe Mwasagnombe, a sub-clan of the Wadigo, 
and claimed as subjects by Abdullah, the son of Sultan 
Kimwere, they have gallantly held their ground. Ac- 
cording to the Arabs there is another servile republic 
about Gulwen, near Brava. Travellers speak with 
horror of the rudeness, violence, and cruelty of these 
self-emancipated slaves; they are said to be more 
dangerous even than the Somal, who for wanton mis- 
chief and malice can be compared with nothing but the 
naughtiest schoolboys in England. 

The serviles at Zanzibar have played their Arab 
masters some notable tricks. Many a severe lord has 
perished by the hand of a slave. Several have lost 
their eyes by the dagger's point during sleep. Curious 
tales are told of ingenious servile conspiracy. Mo- 



Digitized by 



PRICES OF SLAVES. 



375 



hammed bin Sayf, a Zanzibar Arab, remarkable for 
household discipline, was brought to grief by Kombo, 
his slave, who stole a basket of nutmegs from the 
Prince, and, hiding them in his master's house, de- 
nounced him of theft. Fahl bin Nasr, a travelling 
merchant, when passing through Ugogo, nearly lost 
his life in consequence of a slave having privily in- 
formed the people that his patroon had been killing 
crocodiles and preserving their fat for poison. In both 
these cases the slaves were not punished; they had 
acted, it was believed, according to the true instincts of 
servile nature, and chastisement would have caused 
desertion, not improvement. 

As regards the female slaves, the less said about 
them, from regard to the sex, the better: they are as 
deficient in honour as in honesty, in modesty and 
decorum as in grace and beauty. No man, even an 
Arab, deems the mother of his children chaste, or 
believes in the legitimacy of his progeny till proved. 

Extensive inquiries into the subject lead to a con- 
viction that it is impossible to offer any average of the 
price of slaves. Yet the question is of importance, as 
only the immense profit causes men thus to overlook 
all considerations of humanity. A few general rules 
may be safely given. There is no article, even horse- 
flesh, that varies so much in market-value as the human 
commodity : the absolute worth is small compared with 
the wants of the seller and the requirements and the 
means of the purchaser. The extremes range from six 
feet of unbleached domestics or a few pounds of grain 
in time of famine, to seventy dollars, equal to 15/. 
The slaves are cheapest in the interior, on account of 
the frequency of desertion : about Unyamwezi they are 
dearer, and most expensive in the island of Zanzibar. 

B n 4 



Digitized by Google 



376 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



At the latter place during the last few years they have 
doubled in price : according to the Arabs, who regard 
the abolition of slavery with feelings of horror, this 
increase results from the impediments thrown in the 
way by the English ; a more probable explanation may 
be found in the greater cheapness of money. At Zan- 
zibar the price of a boy under puberty is from fifteen 
to thirty dollars. A youth till the age of fifteen is 
worth a little less. A man in the prime of life, from 
twenty-five to forty, fetches from thirteen to twenty 
dollars ; after that age he may be bought from ten to 
thirteen. Educated slaves, fitted for the work of fac- 
tors, are sold from twenty-five to seventy dollars, and 
at fancy prices. The price of females is everywhere 
about one-third higher than that of males. At Zanzibar 
the ushur or custom-dues vary according to the race of 
the slave: the Wahiao, Wangindo, and other serviles 
imported from Kilwa, pay one dollar per head, from the 
Mrima or maritime regions two dollars, and from Un- 
yamwezi, Ujiji, and the rest of the interior three dol- 
lars. At the central depot, Unyanyembe, where slaves 
are considered neither cheap nor dear, the value of a 
boy ranges between eight and ten doti or double cloths ; 
a youth from nine to eleven ; a man in prime, from five 
to ten ; and past his prime from four to six. In some 
parts of the interior men are dearer than children under 
puberty. In the cheapest places, as in Karagwah and 
Urori, a boy costs three shukkahs of cloth, and three 
fundo or thirty strings of coral beads; a youth from 
ten to fifteen fundo ; a man in prime from eight to ten ; 
and no one will purchase an old man. These general 
notes must not, however, be applied to particular tribes : 
as with ivory and other valuable commodities, the 
amount and the description of the circulating medium 
vary at almost every march. 



Digitized by 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. 



377 



It was asserted by the late Colonel Hamerton, whose 
local knowledge was extensive, that the average of 
yearly import into the island of Zanzibar was 14,000 
head of slaves, the extremes being 9000 and 20,000. 
The loss by mortality and desertion is 30 per cent, per 
annum ; thus, the whole gang must be renewed between 
the third and fourth year. 

By a stretch of power slavery might readily be 
abolished in the island of Zanzibar, and in due time, 
after the first confusion, the measure would doubtless 
be found as profitable as it is now unpalatable to the 
landed proprietors, and to the commercial body. A 
" sentimental squadron," like the West African, would 
easily, by means of steam, prevent any regular expor- 
tation to the Asiatic continent. But these measures 
would deal only with effects, leaving the causes 
in full vigour; they would strike at the bole and 
branches, the root retaining sufficient vitality to resume 
its functions as soon as relieved of the pressure from 
without. Neither treaty nor fleet would avail perma- 
nently to arrest the course of slavery upon the sea- 
board, much less would it act in the far realms of the 
interior. At present the African will not work: the 
purchase of predial slaves to till and harvest for him is 
the great aim of his life. When a more extensive inter- 
course with the maritime regions shall beget wants 
which compel the barbarian, now contented with doing 
nothing and having nothing, to that individual exertion 
and that mutual dependency which render serfdom a 
moral impossibility in the more advanced stages of 
human society, — when man, now valueless except to 
himself, shall become more precious by his labour than 
by his sale, in fact an article so expensive that strangers 
cannot afford to buy him, — then we may expect to wit- 
ness the extinction of the evil. Thus, and thus only 



378 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



can "Rachel, still weeping for her children," in the 
evening of her days, be made happy. 

Meanwhile, the philanthropist, who after sowing the 
good seed has sense and patience to consign the gather- 
ing of the crop to posterity, will hear with pleasure 
that the extinction of slavery would be hailed with 
delight by the great mass throughout the length and 
breadth of Eastern Africa. This people, " robbed and 
spoiled" by their oppressors, who are legionary, call 
themselves 11 the meat," and the slave-dealers " the 
knife:" they hate and fear their own demon Moloch, 
but they lack unanimity to free their necks from his 
yoke. Africa still "lies in her blood," but the progress 
of human society, and the straiter bonds which unite 
man with man, shall eventually rescue her from her old 
pitiable fate. 




The Bull-headed Mabruki. African standing position. 



379 



CONCLUSION. 

On the 9th February the Battela and the stores required 
for our trip arrived at Konduchi from Zanzibar, and the 
next day saw us rolling down the coast, with a fair fresh 
breeze, towards classic Kilwa, the Quiloa of De Gama, 
of Camoens, and of the Portuguese annalists. I shall re- 
serve an account of this most memorable shore for a fu- 
ture work devoted especially to the seaboard of Zanzibar 
— coast and island : — in the present tale of adventure 
the details of a cabotage would be out of place. Suf- 
fice it to say that we lost nearly all our crew by the 
cholera, which, after ravaging the eastern coast of 
Arabia and Africa, and the islands of Zanzibar and 
Pemba, had almost depopulated the southern settlements 
on the mainland. We were unable to visit the course 
of the great Rufiji River, a counterpart of the Zambezi 
in the south, and a water-road which appears destined to 
become the highway of nations into Eastern equatorial 
Africa. No man dared to take service on board the in- 
fected vessel; the Hindu Banyans, who directed the Copal 
trade of the river regions aroused against us the chiefs 
of the interior; moreover, the stream was in flood, 
overflowing its banks, and its line appeared marked by 
heavy purple clouds, which discharged a deluge of rain. 
Convinced that the travelling season was finished, I 
turned the head of the Battela northwards, and on the 
4th March, 1859, after a succession of violent squalls 
and pertinacious calms, we landed once more upon the 
island of Zanzibar. 

Sick and way-worn I entered the house connected in 
memory with an old friend, not without a feeling of 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



sorrow for the change — I was fated to regret it even 
more. The excitement of travel was succeeded by 
an utter depression of mind and body: even the 
labour of talking was too great, and I took refuge 
from society in a course of French novels a vingt sous 
la piece. 

Yet I had fallen upon stirring times : the little state, 
at the epoch of my return, was in the height of con- 
fusion. . His Highness the Sayyid Suwayni, Suzerain of 
Maskat, seizing the pretext of a tribute owed to him by 
his cadet brother of Zanzibar, had embarked, on the 
11th February, 1859, a host of Bedouin brigands upon 
four or five square-rigged ships and many Arab craft : 
with this power he was preparing a hostile visit to 
the island. The Baloch stations on the mainland were 
drained of mercenaries, and 7000 muskets, with an 
amount of ammunition, which rendered the town dan- 
gerous, were served out to slaves and other ruffians. 
Dows from Hadramaut brought down armed adven- 
turers, who were in the market to fight for the best pay. 
The turbulent Harisi chiefs of Zanzibar were terrified 
into siding with his Highness the Sayyid Majid by the 
influence of H. M. consul, Captain Rigby. But the 
representatives of the several Christian powers could 
not combine to preserve the peace, and M. Ladislas 
Cochet^ Consul de France, an uninterested spectator of 
the passing events, thought favourably of his High- 
ness the Sayyid Suwayni's claim, he believed that the 
people if consulted would prefer the rule of the elder 
brother, and he could not reconcile his conscience to the 
unscrupulous means — the force majeure — which his 
opponent brought into the field. The Harisi, therefore, 
with their thousands of armed retainers — in a single 
review I saw about 2200 of them — preserved an 
armed neutrality, which threatened mischief to the 
weaker of the rival brothers : trade was paralysed, the 



Digitized by Google 



TROUBLES AT ZANZIBAR. 



381 



foreign merchants lost heavily, and no less than eighty 
native vessels were still at the end of the season due 
from Bombay and the north. To confuae confusion, 
several ships collecting negro " emigrants" and " free 
labourers," per fas et nefas, even kidnapping them 
when necessary, were reported by the Arab local autho- 
rities to be anchored and to be cruising off the coast of 
Zanzibar. 

After a fortnight of excitement and suspense, during 
which the wildest rumours flew through the mouths of 
men, it was officially reported that H. M.'s steamer 
Punjaub, Captain Fullerton, H.M. I. N., commanding, 
had, under orders received from the government of 
Bombay, met his Highness the Sayyid Suwayni off the 
eastern coast of Africa and had persuaded him to 
return. 

Congratulations were exchanged, salutes were fired, a 
few Buggalows belonging to the enemy's fleet, which was 
said to have been dispersed by a storm, dropped in and 
were duly captured, the negroes drank, sang, and 
danced for a consecutive week, and with the least delay 
armed men poured in crowded boats from the island 
towards their several stations on the mainland. But 
the blow had been struck, the commercial prosperity of 
Zanzibar could not be retrieved during the brief 
remnant of the season, and the impression that a re- 
newal of the attempt would at no distant time ensure 
similar disasters seemed to be uppermost in every man's 
mind. 

His Highness the Sayyid Majid had honoured me 
with an expression of desire that I should remain 
until the expected hostilities might be brought to a 
close. I did so willingly in gratitude to a prince 
to whose good-will my success was mainly indebted. 
But the consulate was no longer what it was be- 
fore. I felt myself too conversant with local politics, 



Digitized by Google 



382 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

and too well aware of what was going on to be a 
pleasant companion to its new tenant. At last, on 
the 15th March, when concluding my accounts with 
Lad ha Damha, the collector of customs at Zanzibar, 
that official requested me, with the usual mystery, to 
be the bearer of despatches, privately addressed by his 
prince, to the home government. I could easily 
guess what they contained. Unwilling, however, to 
undertake such a duty when living at the consulate, 
and seeing how totally opposed to official convenance 
such a procedure was, I frankly stated my objections 
to Ladha Damha, and repeated the conversation to 
Captain Rigby. As may be imagined, this little event 
did not diminish his desire to see me depart. 

Still I was unwilling to leave the field of my labours 
while so much remained to be done. As my health 
appeared gradually to return under the influence of 
repose and comparative comfort, I would willingly 
have delayed at the island till the answer to an ap- 
plication for leave of absence, and to a request for 
additional funds could be received from the Govern- 
ment of Bombay and the Royal Geographical Society. 
But the evident anxiety of my host to disembarrass 
himself of his guest, and the nervous impatience of my 
companion — who could not endure the thought of 
losing an hour — compelled me, sorely against my wish, 
to abandon my intentions. 

Said bin Salim, the Ras Kafilah, called twice or thrice 
at the consulate. I refused, however, to see him, and 
explained the reason to Captain Rigby. That gentle- 
man agreed with me at the time that the Arab had 
been more than sufficiently rewarded by the sum 
advanced to him by Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton: but — 
perhaps he remembers the cognomen by which he was 
known in days of yore amongst his juvenile confreres 



Digitized by Google 



DEPARTURE FROM ZANZIBAR. 



383 



at Addiscombe? — he has since thought proper to change 
his mind. The Jemadar and the Baloch attended me 
to the doorway of the prince's darbar: I would not 
introduce them to their master or to the consul, as 
such introduction would have argued myself satisfied 
with their conduct, nor would I recommend them for 
promotion or reward. Ladha Damha put in a faint 
claim for salary due to the sons of Ramji ; but when 
informed of the facts of the case he at once withdrew 
it, and I heard no more of it at Zanzibar. As regards 
the propriety of these severe but equitable measures, 
my companion was, I believe, at that time of the same 
opinion as myself: perhaps Captain Speke's prospect 
of a return to East Africa, and of undertaking a similar 
exploration, have caused him since that epoch to think, 
and to think that he then thought, otherwise. 

The report of the success of the Punjaub's mission 
left me at liberty to depart. With a grateful heart 
I bade adieu to a prince whose kindness and personal 
courtesy will long dwell in my memory, and who at 
the parting interview had expressed a hope to see me 
again, and had offered me a passage homeward in one 
of his ships-of-war. At the time, however, a clipper- 
built barque, the Dragon of Salem, Captain M'Farlane 
commanding, was discharging cargo in the harbour, 
preparatory to sailing with the S.W. monsoon for 
Aden. The captain consented to take us on board: 
Captain Rigby, however, finding his boat too crowded, 
was compelled to omit accompanying us — a little mark 
of civility not unusual in the East. His place, how- 
ever, was well filled up by Seedy Mubarak Bombay, 
whose honest face appeared at that moment, by con- 
trast, peculiarly attractive. 

On the 22nd March, 1859, the clove-shrubs and the 
cocoa-trees of Zanzibar again faded from my eyes. After 



Digitized by Google 



384 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



crossing and re-crossing three times the tedious line, 
we found ourselves anchored, on the 16th April, near 
the ill-omened black walls of the Aden crater. 

The crisis of my African sufferings had taken place 
during my voyage upon the Tanganyika Lake: the 
fever, however, still clung to me like the shirt of 
Nessus. Mr. Apothecary Frost, of Zanzibar, had ad- 
vised a temporary return to Europe : Dr. Steinhaeuser, 
the civil surgeon, Aden, also recommended a lengthened 
period of rest. I bade adieu to the coal-hole of the 
East on the 28th April, 1859, and in due time greeted 
with becoming heartiness the shores of my native 
land. 

FINIS CORONAT OPUS ! 




The Elephant Rock ('Axpwrfrtor 'EA^at, Peri pi ua n. <J:^ Lf^J X >oen from fifteen 

mile* at sea, direction 8. W. 



APPENDICES. 



VOL. II C C 



Digitized by Google 



387 



APPENDIX I. 



COMMERCE, IMPORTS AND EXPORTS. 

Commerce has for ages been a necessity to the East African, 
who cannot be contented without his clothing and his orna- 
ments, which he receives in barter for the superfluity of his 
country. Against its development, however, serious obstacles 
have hitherto interposed. On the seaboard and in the island 
the Banyans, by monopolizing the import traffic, do injury to 
the internal trade. In the interior the Wasawahili excite, with 
all the animosity of competition, the barbarians against Arab 
interlopers, upon the same sordid and short-sighted principle 
that the latter display when opposing the ingress of Euro- 
peans. Finally, the Arabs, according to their own confession, 
have by rapacity and imprudence impoverished the people with- 
out enriching themselves. Their habit of sending fundi on 
trading trips is, as has been explained, most prejudicial both to 
seller and buyer ; the prices of provisions as well as of merchan- 
dise increase almost visibly; and though the evil might be 
remedied by a little combination, solidarity of interests being 
unknown, that little is nowhere found. All, Banyans, Wasa- 
wahili, and Arabs, like semi-civilised people generally, abhor 
and oppose a free trade, which they declare would be as in- 
jurious to themselves as doubtless advantageous to the country. 
Here, as in Europe, the battle of protection has still to be 
fought ; and here, unlike Europe, the first step towards civili- 
8ation, namely, the facility of intercourse between the interior 
and the coast, has yet to be created. 

The principal imports into East Africa are domestics and 
piece goods, plain and unbleached cotton cloths, beads, and brass 
wire. The minor items for the native population are prints, 
coloured cloths Indian and Arabian, broadcloth, calicos, caps, 
ironware, knives and needles, iron and copper wires for orna- 
ments, and in some regions trinkets and ammunition. A small 
trade, chiefly confined to the Arabs, is done in provisions, spices, 
drugs, and other luxuries. 

c c 2 



Digitized by Google 



388 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



The people of East Africa when first visited were satisfied 
with the worst and flimsiest kaniki or indigo-dyed Indian cotton. 
This they presently gave up for the "mcrkani," American 
" domestics," or unbleached shirting and sheeting, which now 
supplies the markets from Abyssinia to the Mozambique. But 
the wild men arc losing predilection for a stuff which is neither 
comfortable nor durable, and in many regions the tribes, satisfied 
with goat-skins and tree-barks, prefer to invest their capital in 
the more attractive and durable beads and wire. It would evi- 
dently be advantageous if England or her Indian colonies would 
manufacture an article better suited to the wants of the country 
than that at present in general use; but, under existing cir- 
cumstances, there is little probability of this being done. 

The " domestics" from the mills near Salem, Lawrence, 
Manchester, and others, called in the island of Zanzibar wilaiti 
( " foreign "), or khami (the " raw "), is known throughout the 
inner country as "merkani" or American. These unbleached 
cottons are of two kinds: the wilaiti mpana (broad) or sheeting, 
sold in pieces about 30 yards long and 36 to 38 inches broad, 
and the wilaiti kabibu (narrow) or shirting, of the same length 
but let* in breadth, from 32 to 34 inches. In the different 
mills the lengths vary, the extremes being 24 and 36 yards. 
The cloth measures in use throughout the country are the 
following : — 

2$ Fitr (short spans) = 1 Mukono, Ziroa, or cubit. 

2 Mikono, or Ziraa (cubits) = 1 Half-Shukkah (ie. 3 feet of domestics). 

2 Half-Shukkah = 1 Shukkah,Mwenda,Upande,orLupandc,the 

Portuguese Braca(t>. 6 feet of domestics). 
2 Shukkahs = 1 Tobe (Ar. Saub), Doti, Unguoya ku shona 

(washing cloth), or simply Unguo(12ft.) 
2 Doti = 1 Takah. 

7 to II Doti — 1 Jurah or Gorab, the piece. 

The fitr or short span is from the extended end of the fore- 
finger to the thumb ; the shibr or long span is from the thumb 
to the little finger; of these, two go to that primitive measure 
the cubit or elbow length. Two cubits in long measure com- 
pose the war or yard, and two war the ba'a or fathom. 

The price of domestics greatly varies in dear years and cheap 
years. At Zanzibar it sometimes falls to 2 dols. per gorah or 
piece, and it often rises to 2*75 dols. When the dollar is 
alluded to, the Maria Theresa crown is always meant The 
price in Bombay is from 213 to 215 Co.'s rs. per cent. At 
Zanzibar the crown is dhided like the rupee into 16 annas, and 
each anna into 9 or 8 pice ; of these the full number is 128 to 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



tlie dollar, but it is subject to incessant fluctuations. Mer- 
chants usually keep accounts in dollars and cents. The Arabs 
divide the dollar as follows : - — 

4 Ruba baisah (the " pie")'= Baisab (in the plur. Biyas), the Indian Paisa. 
8 Biyas = 1 Anna. 

2 Annas, or 16 Pice = 1 Tumun or eighth. 

4 Annas, or 32 Pice, or 25 Cents = 1 Ruba, Rubo or Quarter-dollar, the 
Indian Paola. 

2 Ruba, or 64 Pice, or 50 Cents = 1 Nusu or Half-dollar. 
2 Nusu = Dollar. 

The Spanish or pillar dollar is called by the Arabs abu madfa, 
and by the Wasawahili riyal mazinga (the " cannon dollar " ), 
In the East generally it is worth from 6 to 8 per cent, more than 
the Maria Theresa, but at Zanzibar, not being a legal tender, 
the value is unfixed. The only subdivision of this coin gene- 
rally known is the seringe, pistoline, or " small quarter dollar," 
which is worth only 10 pice and 2 pics, whereas the ruba, or 
quarter of the Maria Theresa, is 32 pice. The French 5-franc 
piece, raised in value by a somewhat arbitrary process from 1 14 
to 110 per 100 " piastres d'Espagne " by M. Guillain in 1846, 
has no ourrency, though the Banyans attempt to pas9 them off 
upon strangers at 108 for 100 Maria Theresas. In selling, the 
price ranges from 15 to 22 shukkahs, each of which, assuming 
the dollar or German crown to be worth 4*. 2rf., will be worth 
upon the island from 6d. to 8d, The shukkah is, as has been 
said, the shilling and florin of East Africa, and it is assuredly 
the worst circulating medium ever invented by mankind. The 
progress of its value as it receded from the seaboard, and other 
details concerning it, which may be useful to future travellers, 
have been treated of in the preceding pages. 

First in importance amongst the cloths is the kaniki or 
kiniki ; its names and measures are made to differ by the traders 
according to the fashion of semi-civilised people, who seek 
in confusion and intricacy facilities for fraud and chicanery. 
The popular divisions arc — 

4 Mikono, Ziraa, or cubits = 1 Shukkah. 

2 Shukkah = 1 Doti or Tobe. 

2 Doti = 1 Jurah, Gorah, or Takah. 

2 Takah = 1 Korjah, Kori, or score. 

Of this indigo-dyed cotton there are three kinds : the best, 
which is close and neatly made, is seldom exported from Zan- 
zibar. The gorah or piece of 16 cubits, 45 inches in breadth, 
is worth about 1 dollar. The common variety, 40 inches broad, 
supplied to the markets of the interior, costs about half that 

c c 3 



Digitized by Google 



THE LAKE BEG IONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



sum ; and the worst kind,, which averages in breadth 36 inches, 
represents a little less. The value of the korjah or score fluc- 
tuates between 8 and 13 dollars. Assuming, therefore, the 
average at 10 dollars, and the number of shukkahs contained in 
the gorah at 80, the price of each will represent 6d. Thus it 
is little inferior in price to the merkani or domestics when pur- 
chased upon the seaboard: its progress of value in the interior, 
however, is by no means in proportion, and by some tribes it is 
wholly rejected. 

The lucrative bead trade of Zanzibar is now almost entirely 
in the hands of the Banyan capitalists, who, by buying up ships' 
cargoes, establish their own prices, and produce all the inconve- 
niences of a monopoly. In laying in a stock the traveller must 
not trust himself to these men, who seize the opportunity of 
palming off the waste and refuse of their warehouses: he is ad- 
vised to ascertain from respectable Arab merchants, on their 
return from the interior, the varieties requisite on the line of 
march. Any neglect in choosing beads, besides causing daily 
inconvenience, might arrest an expedition on the very threshold 
of success : towards the end of these long African journeys, 
when the real work of exploration commences, want of outfit 
tells fatally. The bead-monopolisers of Zanzibar supplied the 
East African expedition with no less than nine men's loads of 
the cheapest white and black beads, some of which were thrown 
away, as no man would accept them at a gift Finally, the 
utmost economy must be exercised in beads: apparently ex- 
haustless, a large store goes but a little way : the minor pur- 
chases of a European would average 10 strings or necklaces 
per diem, and thus a man's load rarely outlasts the fifth week. 

Beads, called by the Arabs kharaz, and by the Wasawahili 
ushanga, are yearly imported into East Africa by the ton — in 
quantities which excite the traveller's surprise that so little is 
6een of them. For centuries there has been a regular supply 
of these ornaments ; load after load has been absorbed ; but 
although they are by no means the most perishable of sub- 
stances, and though the people, like the Indians, carry their 
wealth upon their persons, not a third of the population wears 
any considerable quantity. There are about 400 current vari- 
eties, of which each has its peculiar name, value, and place of 
preference ; yet, being fabricated at a distance from the spot, 
they lack the perpetual change necessary to render them 
thoroughly attractive. In Urori and Ubena, antiquated marts, 
now nearly neglected, there are varieties highly prized by the 
people : these might be imitated with advantage. 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



31)1 



For trading purposes a number of different kinds must bo 
laid in,— for travellers, the coral or scarlet, the pink porcelain, 
and the large blue glass bead, are more useful than other 
colours. Yet in places even the expensive coral bead has been 
refused. 

Beads are sold in Zanzibar island by the following weights : 

1G Wakiyyah (ounces, each=l dollar in weight)=l Rati (or pound; in 
the plural, ArtAl). 

3 Rati, or 48 Wakiyyah = 1 Man (Maund). 

12 Am nan (Maunds) = 1 Frasilah (35 to 36 pounds). 
60 Artil (pounds) = 1 Frasilah. 

20to22Farasilah (according to the article purchased) =1 Kandi (Candy). 

The Zanzibar lb. is the current English avoirdupois. The 
Arabs use a rati without standard, except that it should be 
equal to sixteen Maria Theresa dollars. According to M. 
Guillain, it is four grammes (each 22*966 grs. avoir.) less than 
the English lb., and when reduced to seven grammes it is con- 
sidered under weight. The "man** or maund is the general 
measure : there are, however, three varieties. The " man'* of 
Zanzibar consists of three rati, that of Maskat contains nine, 
and that of Oman generally 0*25 less than the Zanzibar maund. 
The frasilah (in the plur. fardsilah) may roughly be assumed as 
one-third of the cwt. : the word probably gave rise to the 
English coffee-weight called a " frail. " 

The measures of beads are as complicated and arbitrary as 
those of cloth. The following are the terms known throughout 
the interior, but generally unintelligible at Zanzibar, where this 
merchandise is sold by weight : 

4 Bitil (each a single length from index tip to wrist) =~1 Khete. 

10 Khete (each a doubled length round the throat, or round the thumb, 
to the elbow-bone) = 1 Fundo (i.e. a "knot.") 

10 Fundo (in the plural, Mafundo)= 1 Ugoyye, or Ugoe. 
10 Ugoyye (or 60 Fundo) = 1 Miranga, or Gana. 

Of these bead measures there are local complications. In 
the central regions, for instance, the khete is of half size, and 
the fundo consists of five, not of ten khete. 

Beads are purchased for the monopolisers of Zanzibar un- 
strung, and before entering the country it is necessary to 
measure and prepare the lengths for barter. The string, called 
" ut'hembwe " (in the plural " t'hembwe is generally made 
of palm-fibre, and much depends for successful selling, especially 
in the larger kinds of beads, upon the regularity and attractive- 
ness of the line. It will be remembered that beads in East 

c c 4 



Digitized by Google 



8$2 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 

Africa represent the copper and smaller silver coins of 
European countries ; it is, however, impossible to reduce the 
khete, the length most used in purchases, to any average : it 
varies from a halfpenny to three* pence. The average value of 
the khete in Zanzibar coin is three pice, and about 100 khete 
are included in the man or maund. The traveller will find 
the bitil used as our farthing, the khete is the penny, the 
shukkah kaniki is the sixpence and shilling, the shukkah 
merkani and the fundo represent the halfcrown and crown, 
whilst the Barsati cloth, the kitindi or cod bracelet, and the 
larger measures of beads, form the gold money. The following 
varieties are imported in extensive outfits. Nos. 1, 2, and 3, 
are the expensive kinds; Nos. 4, 5, and 6, are in local demand, 
cheap in the maritime, and valuable in the central regions, and 
the rest are the more ordinary sorts. All those that are round 
and pierced are called indifferently by the Arabs madruji, or 
the " drilled." 

1. Samsam (Ar.) e&mesame (Kis.), kimara-p'haraba (food- 
finishers), joho (scarlet cloth), and kifunga-mgi (town-breakers, 
because the women are mad for them), are the various names 
for the small coral bead, a scarlet enamelled upon a white 
ground. They are known at Zanzibar as kharaz-kartasi — 
paper beads — because they are sent into the country ready 
strung, and packed in paper parcels, which ought to weigh 4 
pounds each, but are generally found to vary from 8 to 10 
fundo or knots. Of this bead there are 15 several sizes, and 
the value of the frasilah is from 13 to 16 dollars at Zan- 
zibar. In Unyamwezi, where the sames&me is in greatest 
demand, one fundo is equivalent to 1 shukkah merkani, and 
6 khete to the shukkah kaniki. 

2. Next in demand to the samcsdme, throughout the country, 
except at Ujiji, where they lose half their value, are the pink 
porcelain, called gulabi (the rosy), or maguru 16 nzige (locust's 
feet). The price in Zanzibar varies from 12 to 15 dollars per 
frasilah. 

3. The blue porcelain, called in Venice ajerino, and in East 
Africa langiyo or murtutu (blue vitriol) is of three several 
sizes, and the best is of the lightest colour. The larger variety, 
called langiyo mkuba, fetches, at Zanzibar, from 6 to 12 
dollars per frasilah, and the p'heke, or smaller, from 7 to 9 
dollars. In Usagara and Unyamwezi, where from 3 to 4 
fundo are equivalent to the shukkah merkani, and I to 2 to the 
shukkah kaniki, it is used for minor purchases, where the 
samesame would be too valuable. It is little prized in other 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 303 

parts, and between Unyamwezi and Ujiji it falls to the low level 
of the white porcelain. 

4. A local variety, current from Msene to the Tanganyika 
Lake, where, in the heavier dealings, as the purchase of slaves 
and ivory, a few strings are always required to cap the bargain, 
is called mzizima, mtunda, balghami, and jelabi, the riogcl 
perle of Germany. It is a large flat bead of glass ; the khete 
contains about 150, and each item acts as a copper coin. The 
mzizima is of two varieties ; the more common is a dark blue, 
the other is of a whitish and opaline tint At Zanzibar the 
frasilah costs from 7 to 9 dollars. In Unyamwezi 3 fundo are 
equivalent to 1 shukkah merkani, and 1 fundo to 1 shukkah 
kaniki. 

5. Another local variety is the balghami mkubn, popularly 
called sungomaji, a bead made at Nuremberg (?). It is a porce- 
lain, about the size of a pigeon's egg, and of two colours, 
white and light blue. The sungomaji, attached to a thin cord 
or twine, is worn singly or in numbers as an ornament round 
the neck, and the people complain that the polish soon wears 
off. At Zanzibar the price per 1000 is from 15 to 20 dollars, 
but it is expected to decline to 10 dollars. This bead is useful 
in purchasing ivory in Ugogo and Unyamwezi, and in hiring 
boats at Ujiji : its relative value to cloth is 19 per shukkah 
merkani, and 15 per shukkah kaniki. 

6. The sofi, called in Italian cannettone, resembles bits of 
broken pipe-stems, about two-thirds of an inch in length. It is 
of various colours, white, brick-red, and black. Each bead is 
termed masaro, and is used like pice in India: of these the 
khete contains from 55 to 60. The price varies, at Zanzibar, 
from 2 to 3 dollars per frasilah ; in the interior, however, the 
value greatly increases, on account of insufficient importation. 
This bead, in 1858, was in great demand throughout Usagara, 
Unyamwezi, and the western regions, where it was as valuable 
as the samesame. Having neglected to lay in a store at 
Zanzibar, the East African Expedition was compelled to ex- 
change cloth for it at Msene and Ujiji, giving 1 shukkah 
merkani for 30 to 35 khete, and 1 shukkah kaniki for 15 to 
25. In Ujiji, however, many of the purchases were rejected 
because the bits had become small by wear, or had been 
chipped off by use. 

7. The staple of commerce is a coarse porcelain bead, of 
various colours, known in Zanzibar by the generic name of 
hafizi. There are three principal kinds. The khanyera or 
Ubhanga waupa (white beads) are common throughout the 



Digitized by Google 



994 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



country. The average value, at Zanzibar, is 6 dollars per 
frasilah: in Unyamwezi, 4 fundo were equivalent to the 
shukkah merkani, and 2 to 3 to the kaniki; but the people, 
glutted with this bead (as many as 20,000 strings were supplied 
to the East African Expedition by the Banyans of Zanzibar), 
preferred 1 khete of samesaxne to 3 of khanyera. The kidun- 
duguru is a dull brick-red bead, worth at Zanzibar from 5 to 7 
dollars per frasilah, but little prized in the interior, where it is 
derisively termed khanyera ya mk'hunda. Another red variety 
of hafizi is called merkani: it is finely made to resemble the 
eamesame, and costs from 7 to 1 1 dollars per frasilah. Of this 
bead there are four several subdivisions. The uzaozawira* or 
samuli (ghee-coloured) is a bright yellow porcelain worth, at 
Zanzibar, from 7 to 9 dollars per frasilah. It is in demand 
throughout Chhnga and the Masai country, but is rarely seen 
on the central line. 

8. The sukoli are orange 'Coloured or rhubarb-tinted porcelain, 
which average, At Zanzibar, from 7 to 9 dollars. They are prized 
in Usagara and Ugogo, but are little worn in other places. 

9. The nili (green), or ukuti wa mnazi (coco-leaves), are little 
beads of transparent green glass; they are of three sizes, the 
smallest of which is called kiki'tL The Zanzibar price is from 
6 to 1 1 dollars. In Ujiji they are highly valued, and are rea- 
dily taken in small quantities throughout the central line. 

10. The ghubari (dust-coloured), or nya kifu (?) is a small 
dove-coloured bead, costing, in Zanzibar, from 7 or 8 dollars. 
It is used in Uzaramo, but its dulness of aspect prevents it 
being a favourite. 

11. The lungenya or lak'hio is a coarse red porcelain, valued 
at 5 to 6 dollars in Zanzibar, and now principally exported 
to Uruwwa and the innermost regions of Central Africa. 

12. The bubu (ububu?), also called ukurawi and ushanga ya 
vipande, are black Venetians, dull dark procelain, ranging, at 
Zanzibar, from 5 to 7 dollars. They are of fourteen sizes, 
large, medium, and small ; the latter are the most valued. These 
Leads are taken by the Wazaramo. In East Usagara and 
Unyamwezi they are called khuni or firewood, nor will they be 
received in barter except when they excite a temporary caprice. 

The other beads, occasionally met with, are the serekcti, ovals 
of white or garnet-red, prized in Khutu ; choroko or mdgiyo, 
dull green porcelains ; undriyo maupe (?), mauve-coloured, round 
or oval ; undriyo mausi (?), dark lavender ; asmani, sky-coloured 
glass ; and pusange, blue Bohemian glass beads, cut into facets. 
The people of the coast also patronise a variety of large fancy 



Digitized by Google 



AITENDIX I. 395 

articles, flowered, shelled, and otherwise ornamented; these, 
however, rarely find their way into the interior. 

After piece goods and beads, the principal articles of traffic, 
especially on the northern lines and the western portion of the 
central route, are masango (in the singular sango), or brass 
wires, called by the Arabs hajtilah. Nos. 4 or 5 are preferred. 
They are purchased in Zanzibar, when cheap, for 12 dollars, 
and when dear for 16 dollars per frasilah. When imported 
up country the frasilah is divided into three or four large coils, 
called by the Arabs daur, and by the Africans khata, for the 
convenience of attachment to the banghy-pole. Arrived at 
Unyanyembe they are converted by artizans into the kitindi, or 
coil-bracelets, described in the preceding pages.,. Each daur 
forms two or three of these bulky ornaments, of which there are 
about 1 1 to the frasilah, and the weight is thus upwards of three 
pounds. The charge for the cutting, cleaning, and twisting 
into shape is about 1 doti of domestics for 50 kitindis. The 
value of the kitindi, throughout Unyamwezi, in 1858, was 1 
doti merkani; at Ujiji, where they are in demand for slaves and 
ivory, the price was doubled. Thus, the kitindi, worth one 
dollar each — when cheap, nine are bought for ten dollars — in 
Zanzibar, rises to five dollars in the lake regions. Kitindi were 
formerly made of copper wire; it has fallen into disuse on ac- 
count of its expense, — at Zanzibar from 15 to 20 dollars per 
frasilah. Large iron wires, called senyenge, are confined to 
Ugogo and the northern countries inhabited by the Wamasai. 
The East Africans have learned to draw fine wire, which they 
call uzi wa shaba (brass thread); they also import from the coast 
Nos. 22 to 25, and employ them for a variety of decorative pur- 
poses, which have already been alluded to. The average price 
of this small wire at Zanzibar is 12 dollars per frasilah. As 
has been mentioned, sat or zinc, called by the Africans bati 
(tin), is imported by the Wajiji. 

The principal of the minor items are coloured cloths, called by 
the people "cloths with names : " of these, many kinds are 
imported by every caravan. In some regions, Ugogo for in- 
stance, the people will not sell their goats and more valuable pro- 
visions for plain piece-goods; their gross and gaudy tastes lead 
them to despise sober and uniform colours. The sultans inva- 
riably demand for themselves and their wives showy goods, and 
complete their hongaor blackmail with domestics and indigo-dyed 
cottons, which they divide amongst their followers. Often, too, 
a bit of scarlet broadcloth, thrown in at the end of a lengthened 
haggle, opens a road and renders impossibilities possible. 



Digitized by Google 



390 TUE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

The coloured cloths may be divided Into three kinds, — woollens, 
cottons, and silks mixed with cotton. Of the former, the principal 
varieties now imported are Joho or broadcloth; of the second, 
beginning with the cheapest, are Barsati, Dabwani, Jamdani, 
Bandira, Shit (chintz), Khuzarangi, Ukaya, Sohari, Shali, 
Taujiri, Msutu, Kikoi, and Shazar or Mukunguru; the mixed 
and most expensive varieties are the Subai, Dewli, Sabuni, Khesi, 
and Masnafu. Travelling Arabs usually take a piece of baftah 
or white calico as kafan or shrouds for themselves or their com- 
panions in case of accidents. At Zanzibar the value of a piece 
of 24 yds. is 1 dollar 25 cents. Blankets were at first imported 
by the Arabs, but being unsuited to the climate and to the 
habits of the people they soon became a drug in the market. 

Joho (a corruption of the Arabic Johh) is a coarse article, either 
blue or scarlet. As a rule, even Asiatics ignore the value of 
broadcloth, estimating it, as they do guns and watches, by the 
shine of the exterior : the African looks only at the length of the 
pile and the depth of the tint. The Zanzibar valuation of the 
cheap English article is usually 50 cents (2s. \d.) per yard; in 
the interior rising rapidly through double and treble to four 
times that price, it becomes a present for a prince. At Ujiji 
aud other great ivory-marts there is a demand for this article, 
blue as well as red ; it is worn, like the shukkah merkani, round 
the loins by men and round the bosom by women, who, there- 
fore, require a tobe or double length. At Unyanyembe there 
are generally pauper Arabs or Wasawahili artisans who can 
fashion the merchants' supplies into the kizbao or waistcoats 
affected by the African chiefs in imitation of their more civilised 
visitors. 

Of the second division the cheapest is the Barsati, called by 
the Africans kitambi ; it is a blue cotton cloth, with a broad red 
stripe extending along one quarter of the depth, the other three- 
quarters being dark blue; the red is either of European or Cutch 
dye. The former is preferred upon the coast for the purchase of 
copal. Of this Indian stuff there are three kinds, varying in size, 
colour, and quality ; the cheapest is worth at Zanzibar (where, 
however, like dabwani, it is usually sold by the gorah of two uzar 
or loin-cloths) , from 5 to 7 dollars per score ; the second 
10 dollars 50 cents; and the best 14 to 15 dollars. The 
barsati in the interior represents the doti or tobe of Mer- 
kani. On the coast it is a favourite article of wear with the 
poorer freemen, slaves, and women. Beyond the maritime 
regions the chiefs will often refuse a barsati, if of small dimen- 
sions and flimsy texture. Formerly, the barsati was made of 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



:VJ7 



silk, and cost 7 dollars per loin-cloth. Of late years the 
Wanyamwezi have taken into favour the barsati or kitambi 
banyani ; it is a thin white long cloth, called in Bombay kora 
(Corah, or cotton piece-goods), with a narrow reddish border of 
madder or other dye stamped in India or at Zanzibar. The piece 
of 39 yards, which is divided into 20 shukkah, costs at Bombay 
4*50 Co. '8 rs. ; at Zanzibar 2 dollars 50 cents; and the price of 
printing the edge is 1 dollar 75 cents. 

The dabwani is a kind of small blue and white check made at 
Maskat ; one fourth of its breadth is a red stripe, edged with 
white and yellow. This stuff, which from its peculiar stiffening 
of gum appears rather like grass-cloth than cotton, is of three 
kinds : the cheapest, dyed with Cutch colours, is much used in 
the far interior; it costs at Zanzibar 12 dols. 50 cents per score 
of pieces, each two and a half yards long ; — the medium quality, 
employed in the jcopal trade of the coast, is stained with Euro- 
pean dye, and superior in work ; the score of pieces, each 3 yards 
long, costs 30 dols. ; — and the best, which is almost confined to 
the island of Zanzibar, ranges from 40 to 45 dols. per kori. The 
dabwani is considered in the interior nearly double the value of 
the barsati, and it is rarely rejected unless stained or injured. 

The jamdani is a sprigged or worked muslin imported from 
India : though much prized for turbans by the dignitaries of the 
maritime races, it is rarely carried far up the country. At 
Zanzibar the price of 10 yards is 1 dol., and the piece of 20 
lengths, each sufficient for a turban, may be purchased for 15 dols. 

The bandira (flag stuff) is a red cotton bunting imported from 
Bombay. It is prized in the interior by women. At Zanzibar 
the price of this stuff greatly varies ; when cheap the piece of 
28 yards may be obtained for 2 dols. 50 cents, when dear it 
rises to 3 dols. 50 cents. It is sold by gorah of 7£ shukkahs. 

Shit, or chintz, is of many different kinds. The common 
English is a red cotton, striped yellow and dark green; it fetches 
from 1 dol. 50 cents to 2 dob. per piece of 28 yards, and is little 
prized in the interior. Those preferred, especially in Unyamwezi 
and Ujiji, are the French and Hamburg ; the former is worth at 
Zanzibar from 4 dols. 50 cents per piece of 35 yards, to 5 dols. 
50 cents per gorah of 10 shukkahs, and the latter from 5 dols. to 
5 dols. 50 cents. The most expensive is the "ajemi," that used 
by the Persians as lining for their lambs wool caps ; the price is 
from 50 cents to 1 dol. per yard, which renders it a scarce ar- 
ticle even in Zanzibar island. 

The khuzarangi, a European cotton dyed a reddish nankeen, 
with pomegranate rind and other colouriog matters, at Maskat, 

- 



Digitized by Google 



308 THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



is almost confined to the Arabs, who make of it their normal 
garment, the long and sleeved shirt called el dishdashah, or in 
Kisawahili khanzu. It is the test of foreign respectability and 
decorum when appearing amongst the half-clad African races, 
and the poorest of pedlars will always carry with him one of 
these nightgown-like robes. The price of the ready-made dish- 
dashah ranges from 50 cents to 2 dols. 50 cents, and the uncut 
piece of 16 yards costs from 2 dols. to 2 dols. 50 cents. 

The ukaya somewhat resembles the kaniki, but it is finer and 
thinner. This jaconnet, manufactured in Europe and dyed in 
Bombay, is much used by female slaves and concubines as head 
veils. The price of the piece of 20 yards, when of inferior 
quality, is 2 dollars 50 cents; it ranges as high as 12 dollars. 

The sohari, or ridia, made at Maskat, is a blue and white 
check with a red border about 5 inches broad, with smaller 
stripes of red, blue, and yellow ; the ends of the piece are checks 
of a larger pattern, with red introduced. There are many 
varieties of this cloth, which, considered as superior to the 
dabwani as the latter is superior to the barsati, forms an accept- 
able present to a chief. The cheapest kind, much used in 
Unyamwezi, costs 16 dollars 25 cents per kori, or score. The 
higher sorts, of which however only 1 to 40 of the inferior is 
imported into the country, ranges from 22 to 30 dollars. 

The shali, a corruption of the Indian shal (shawl), is a common 
English imitation shawl pattern of the poorest cotton. Bright 
yellow or red grounds, with the pear pattern and similar orna- 
ments, are much prized by the chiefs of Unyamwezi. The price 
of the kori, or score, is 25 dollars. 

The taujiri (from the Indian taujir bura") is a dark blue cotton 
stuff, with a gaudy border of madder-red or tumeric-yellow, the 
former colour preferred by the Wahiao, the latter by the Wan- 
yam wezi. The price per score varies from 8 to 17 dollars. 

The msutu is a European cotton dyed at Surat, indigo blue 
upon a madder-red ground, spotted with white. This print is 
much worn by Arab and Wasawahili women as a nightdress 
and morning wrapper ; in the interior it becomes a robe of cere- 
mony. At Zanzibar the piece of 20 lengths, each 2*25 yards 
long and 40 inches broad (two breadths being sown together), 
costs 19 dollars. The kisutu, an inferior variety, fetches, per 
kori of pieces 2*50 yards long, 13 dollars. 

The kikoi is a white cotton, made at Surat, coarse and thick, 
with a broad border of parallel stripes, red, yellow, and indigo 
blue: per kori of pieces 2 yards long, and sewn in double 
breadths, the price is 5 dollars. A superior variety is made 



Digitized by Google 



AITEXDIX I. 



390 



principally for the use of women, with a silk border, which costs 
from 1 to 4 dollars. 

The sbazar, called throughout the interior mukunguru, is a 
Cutch-made cotton plaid, with large or small squares, red and 
white, or black and blue ; this cloth is an especial favourite with 
the Wamasai tribes. The score of pieces, each 2 yards, costs 

6 dollars 25 cents. There is a dearer variety, of which each 
piece is 3 yards long, costing 16 dollars per kori, and therefore 
rarely sold. 

Of the last division of " cloths with names," namely those of 
silk and cotton mixed, the most popular is the subai. It is a 
striped stuff, with small checks between the lines, and with a 
half-breadth of border, a complicated pattern of red, black, and 
yellow. This cloth is used as an uzar, or loin-cloth, by the 
middle classes of Arabs ; the tambua, taraza, or fringe, is applied 
to the cloth with a band of gold thread at Zanzibar, by Wasa- 
wahili. The subai, made at Maskat of Cutch cotton, varies 
greatly in price : the cheapest, of cotton only, may be obtained 
for 2 dollars ; the medium, generally preferred for presents to 
great chiefs, is about 5 dollars 50 cents ; whilst the most expen- 
sive, inwoven with gold thread, ranges from 8 to 30 dollars. 
> The dewli is the Indian lungi, a Surat silk, garnished with a 
border of gold thread and a fringe at Zanzibar. It is a red, 
yellow, or green ground, striped in various ways, and much 
prized for uzar. The price of the cheap piece of 3*50 yards is 

7 dollars, besides the fringe, which is 2 dollars more ; tne best, 
when adorned with gold, rise to 80 dollars. 

The sabuni uzar, made in Maskat, is a silk-bordered cotton, a 
small blue and white check ; the red and yellow edging which 
gives it its value is about one-fifth of its breadth. The score of 
pieces, each 2*50 yards long, varies from 25 to 50 dollars; the 
more expensive, however, rarely find their way into the interior. 

The khesi is a rare importation from Bombay, a scarlet silk, 
made at Tannah ; the piece sold at Bombay for 10 Co.'s rs. 
fetches at Zanzibar 5 dols. 50 cents to 6 dollars ; this kind is 
preferred by the Wanyamwezi chiefs ; when larger, and adorned 
with gold stripes, it rises to 35 Co.'s rs., or 19 dollars, and is 
prized by the Banyans and Hindis of Zanzibar. 

The masnafu is rare like the khesi; it is a mixed silk and 
cotton cloth, of striped pattern, made at Maskat. The cheapest 
is a piece of 1 *75 yards, costing from 2 to 5 dollars, and highly 
regarded in Unyamwezi; the larger kinds, of 2*50 yards, rise 
from 5 to 6 dollars, and the Arabs will pay from 20 to 25 dollars 
for those worked with gold thread. 



Digitized by Google 



400 Till: LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



These notes upon the prices of importations into Central 
Africa rest upon the authority of the Hindus, and principally 
of Ladha Damha, the collector of customs at Zanzibar. Speci- 
mens of the cloths were deposited with the Royal Geographical 
Society of London, and were described by the kindness of Mr. 
Alderman Botterill, F.R.O.S. 

Remain for consideration the minor and local items of traffic. 
The skull-caps are of two kinds. One is a little fez, locally 
called kummah. It is made in France, rarely at Bagdad, and 
sells at Zanzibar for 5 dols. 50 cents to 9 dollars per dozen. 
The cheaper kind is preferred in Unyamwezi ; it is carried up 
from the coast by Arab slaves and Wasawahili merchants, and 
is a favourite wear with the sultan and the mtongi. At Unyan- 
yembe the price of the fez rises to 1 dollar. The " alfiyyah" is 
the common Surat cap, worked with silk upon a cotton ground ; 
it is affected by the Diwans and Shomwis of the coasts. The 
" vis-gol," or 20-stitch, preferred for importation, cost 8 dollars 
per score ; the " tris-gol," or 30-sticb, 13 dollars *, and the 
chalis-gol," or 40-stitch, 18 dollars. 

Resides these articles, a little hardware finds its way into the 
country. Knives, razors, fish-hooks, and needles are useful, 
especially in the transit of Uzaramo. As an investment they 
are useless ; the people, who make for themselves an article 
which satisfies their wants, will not part with valuables to 
secure one a little better. They have small axes and sharp 
spears, consequently they will not buy dear cutlery ; they have 
gourds, and therefore they care little for glass and china. The 
Birmingham trinkets and knicknacks, of which travellers take 
large outfits to savage and barbarous countries, would in East 
Africa be accepted by women and children as presents, but 
unless in exceptional cases they would not procure a pound of 
grain ; mirrors are cheap and abundant at Zanzibar, yet they 
are rarely imported into the interior. The people will devise 
new bijouterie for themselves, but they will not borrow it from 
strangers. In the maritime regions, where the tribes are more 
civilised, they will covet such foreign contrivances, as dollars, 
blankets, suufF-boxes, and tin cylinders which can be converted 
into tobacco pouches: the Wanyamwezi would not regard 
them. Similarly in Somali land, a case of Birmingham goods 
carried through the country returned to Aden almost full. 

Coffee, sugar, and soap may generally be obtained in small 
quantities from the Arabs of Unyanyembe. At Zanzibar the 
price of common coffee is 3 dollars 75 cents, and of Mocha 5 
dollars 50 cents per frasilah. Sugar is of three kinds: the 



Digitized by Google 



A1TENDIX I. 



401 



buluji, or loaf-sugar, imported from America, averages 6 annas; 
sukkari za mawe, or sugar-candy, fetches upon the island 5 
dollars 50 cents per frasilah ; and the bungdld, or sukkari za 
rachanga (brown Bengal sugar), costs 3 dollars 50 cents ; gur, 
or molasses, sells at Zanzibar for 1 dollar 25 cents per frasilah. 
Soap is brought to Zanzibar island by the Americans, French, 
and India merchants. 

The other articles of importation into Zanzibar, which, how- 
ever, so rarely find their way into the interior, that they do not 
merit detailed notice, are — rice and other cereals from Bombay 
and Western India; shipping materials, canvas, rigging, hempen 
cord, planks and boards, paint, pitch, turpentine, linseed-oil, 
bees'- wax, and tar, from America and India; metals from Europe 
and India; furniture from Europe and America, China and 
Bombay ; carpets and rugs from Turkey and Persia ; mats from 
Madagascar ; made-up clothes from Maskat and Yemen ; glass- 
ware from Europe and America ; pottery, paper, and candles 
from Europe and Bombay; kuzah (water-jars) from the Peraian 
Gulf; woods and timber from Madagascar, the Mozambique, 
aud the coast as far north as Mombasah ; skins and hides from 
the Banadir; salt-fish (shark and others) from Oman, Hazra- 
maut, and the Benadir; brandy, rum, peppermint, enu de 
Cologne, syrups and pickles, tobacco, cigars, and tea, from 
Bombay, France, and the Mauritius; rose-water from the Gulf; 
attar of rose and of sandal from Bombay ; dates, almonds, and 
raisins from Arabia and the Gulf ; gums and ambergris from 
Madagascar, the Mozambique, and the " Sayf-Tawil" (the long 
low coast extending from Has Awath, in N. lat. 5° 33', to Ras 
el-Khayl, N. lat. 7° 44') ; aloes and dragon's-blood from Socotra; 
incense, gum Arabic, and myrrh from the Somali country and 
the Benadir; turmeric, opium, ginger, nutmegs, colombo-root, 
cardamoms, cinnamon, aniseed, camphor, benzoin, assafuetida, 
saltpetre, potash, blue vitriol, alum, soda, saffron, garlic, fenu- 
greek, and other drugs and spices from Bombay and Western 
India, 

The staple articles of the internal trade throughout the regions 
extending from the coast of the Indian Ocean to the lakes of 
Central Africa are comprised in slaves and cattle, salt, iron, to- 
bacco, mats and strainers, and tree-barks and ropes. Of these, 
all except salt have been noticed in detail in the preceding pages. 

Salt is brought down during the season from East Arabia to 
Zanzibar by Arab dows, and is heaped up for sale on a strip of 
clear ground under the eastern face of the gurayza or fort. It 
is of two kinds: the fine rock salt sells at 6 annas per frasilah, 

VOL. II. D D 



Digitized by Google 



402 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and the inferior, which is dark and sandy, at about half that 
price. On the coast the principal ports and towns supply 
themselves with sea-salt evaporated in the rudest way. Pits 
sunk near the numerous lagoons and backwaters allow the saline 
particles to infiltrate; the contents, then placed in a pierced 
earthen pot, are allowed to strain into a second beneath. They 
are inspissated by boiling, and are finally dried in the sun, when 
the mass assumes the form of sand. This coarse salt is sold 
after the rains, when it abounds, for its weight of holcus ; when 
dear, the price is doubled. In the interior there are two great 
markets, and the regularity of communication enables the people 
to fare better as regards the luxury than the more civilised 
races of Abyssinia and Harar, where of a millionnairc it is said, 
" he eateth salt." An inferior article is exported from Ugogo, 
about half-wdy between the Kast Coast and the Tanganyika 
Lake. A superior quality is extracted from the pits near the 
Rusugi River in Western Uvinza, distant but a few days from 
Ujiji. For the prices and other conditions of sale the reader is 
referred to Chapters V. and VII. 

The subject of exports will be treated of at some length ; it 
is not only interesting from its intrinsic value, but it is capable of 
considerable development, and it also offers a ready entrance 
for civilisation. The African will never allow the roads to be 
permanently closed — none but the highly refined amongst man- 
kind can contemplate with satisfaction a life of utter savagery. 
The Arab is too wise to despite " protection," but he will not 
refuse to avail himself of assistance offered by foreigners when 
they appear as capitalists. Hitherto British interests have been 
neglected in this portion of the African continent, and the name 
of England is unknown in the interior. Upon the island of 
Zanzibar, in 1857-8, there was not an English firm; no line of 
steamers connected it with India or the Cape, and, during the 
dead season, nine months have elapsed before the answer to a 
letter has been received from home. 

The reader is warned that amongst the East Africans the 
" bay o shara" — barter or round trade— is an extensive subject, 
of which only the broad outlines and general indications can be 
traced. At present, the worthlcssness of time enables both 
buyer and seller to haggle ad libitum, and the superior craft of 
the Arab, the Banyan, the Msawahili, and the more civilised 
slave, has encumbered with a host of difficulties the simplest 
transactions. It is easy to be a merchant and to buy wholesale 
at Zanzibar, but a lengthened period of linguistic study and of 
conversancy with the habits and customs of the people must be 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



•103 



spent by the stranger who would engage in the task of retail- 
buying in the interior. 

The principal article of export from the Zanzibar coast is 
copal, from the interior ivory. The minor items are hippopot- 
amus teeth, rhinoceros horns, cattle, skins, hides, and horns, the 
cereals, timbers, and cowries. Concerning the slaves, who in 
East Africa still form a considerable item of export, details 
have been given in the preceding pages. The articles which 
might be exploited, were means of carriage supplied to the 
people, are wax and honey, orchella-weed, fibrous substances, 
and a variety of gums. 

The copal of Zanzibar, which differs materially from that of 
the Western Coast of Mexico and the cowaee (Australian 
dammar?) of New Zealand, is the only article convertible into 
the fine varnishes now so extensively used throughout the 
civilised world. 

As the attention of the Expedition was particularly directed 
to the supplies of copal in East Africa by Dr. G. Buist, LL.D., 
Secretary to the Bombay branch of the R. G. Society, many 
inquiries and visits to the copal diggings were made. In the 
early part of 1857 specimens of the soils and subsoils, and of the 
tree itself, were forwarded to the Society. 

The copal- tree is called by the Arabs si) ajar el sandarus, from 
the Ilindostani chhandarus; by the Wasawahili msandarusi; 
and by the Wazaramo and other maritime races mndngft. The 
tree still lingers on the island and the mainland of Zanzibar. 
It was observed at Mombasah, Saadani, Muhonycra, and 
Mzegera of Uzaramo; and was heard of at Bagamoyo, Mbuamaji, 
and Kilwa. It is by no means, as some have supposed, a shrubby 
thorn ; its towering bole has formed canoes 60 feet long, and a 
single tree has sufficed for the kelson of a brig. The average 
size, however, is about half that height, with from 3 to 6 feet 
girth near the ground ; the bark is smooth, the lower branches 
arc often within reach of a man's hand, and the tree frequently 
emerges from a natural ring-fence of dense vegetation. The 
trunk is of a yellow-whitish tinge, rendering the tree conspicuous 
amid the dark African jungle-growths ; it is dotted with exuda- 
tions of raw gum, which is found scattered in bits about the 
base ; and it is infested by ants, especially by a long ginger- 
coloured and semi-transparent variety, allied by the people 
maji-m'oto, or " boiling water," from its fiery bite. The copal 
wood is yellow tinted, and the saw collects from it large flakes ; 
when dried and polished it darkens to a honey-brown, and, 
being well veined, it is used for the panels of doors. The small 

D d 2 



Digitized by Google 



404 TI1E LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and pliable branches, freshly cut, form favourite " bakur," the 
kurbaj or bastinadoing instrument of these regions; after long 
keeping they become brittle. The modern habitat of the tree 
is the alluvial sea-plain and the anciently raised beach : though 
extending over the crest of the latter formation, it ceases to be 
found at any distance beyond the landward counterslope, and 
it is unknown in the interior. 

The gum copal is called by the Arabs and Hindus sandarus, 
by the Wasawahili sandaruei, and by the Wanyamwezi — who 
employ it. like the people of Mexico and Yucatan as incense in 
incantations and medicinings — sirokko and m&mndngu. This 
semi-fossil is not " washed out by streams and torrents," but 
" crowed " or dug up by the coast clans and the barbarians of 
the maritime region. In places it is found when sinking piles 
for huts, and at times it is picked up in spots overflowed by the 
high tides. The East African seaboard, from Has Gomani in 
S. lat. 3° to Ras Dclgado in 10° 41', with a medium depth of 
30 miles, may indeed be called the " copal coast ;" every part 
supplies more or less the gum of commerce. Even a section of 
this line, from the mouth of the Pangani River to Ngao 
(Monghou), would, if properly exploited, suffice to supply all 
our present want?. 

The Arabs and Africans divide the gum into two different 
kinds. The raw copal (copal vert of the French market) is 
called sandarusi za miti, " tree copal," or chakazi, corrupted by 
the Zanzibar merchant to '* jackass" copal. This chakazi is 
either picked from the tree or is found, as in the island of 
Zanzibar, shallowly imbedded in the loose soil, where it has not 
remained long enough to attain the phase of bitumenisation. 
To the eye it is 6moky or clouded inside, it feels soft, it becomes 
like putty when exposed to the action of alcohol, and it viscidises 
in the solution used for washing the true copal. Little valued 
in European technology, it is exported to Bombay, where it is 
converted into an inferior varnish for carriages and palanquins, 
and to China, where the people have discovered, it is said, for 
utilising it, a process which, like the manufacture of rice paper 
and of Indian ink, they keep secret. The price of chakazi 
varies from 4 to 9 dollars per frasilah. 

The true or ripe copal, properly called sandarusi, is the produce 
of vast extinct forests, overthrown in former ages either by some 
violent action of the elements, or exuded from the roots of the 
tree by an abnormal action which exhausted and destroved it. 
The gum, buried at depths beyond atmospheric influence, has, 
like amber and similar gum-resins, been bitumeniscd in all its 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



405 



purity, the volatile principles being fixed by moisture and by the 
exclusion of external air. That it is the produce of a tree is 
proved by the discovery of pieces of gum embedded in a touch- 
wood which crumbles under the fingers ; the " goose-skin," which 
is the impress of sand or gravel, shows that it was buried in a 
soft state ; and the bees, flies, gnats, and other insects which arc 
sometimes found in it delicately preserved, seem to disprove a 
remote geologic antiquity. At the end of the rains it is usually 
carried ungarbled to Zanzibar. When garbled upon the coast 
it acquires an additional value of 1 dollar per frasilah. The 
Banyan embarks it on board his own boat, or pays a freight 
varying from 2 to 4 annas, and the ushur or government tax is 
6 annas per frasilah with half an anna for charity. About 8 
annas per frasilah are deducted for " tare and tret." At Zanzi- 
bar, after being sifted and freed from heterogeneous matter, it is 
sent by the Banyan retailer to the Indian market or sold to the 
foreign merchant. It is then washed in solutions of various 
strengths : the lye is supposed to be composed of soda and other 
agents for softening the water; its proportions, however, are 
kept a profound secret. European technologists have, it is said, 
vainly proposed theoretical methods for the delicate part of the 
operation which is to clear the goose-skin of dirt. The Ameri- 
cans exported the gum unclcaned, because the operation is better 
performed at Salem. Of late years they have begun to prepare 
it at Zanzibar, like the Hamburg traders. When taken from 
the solution, in which from 20 to 37 per cent is lost, the gum is 
washed, sun-dried for some hours, and cleaned with a hard brush, 
which must not, however, injure the goose skin ; the dark « eyes," 
where the dirt has sunk deep, are also picked out with an iron 
tool. It is then carefully garbled with due regard to colour and 
size. There are many tints and peculiarities known only to 
those whose interests compel them to study and to observe copal, 
which, like cotton and Cashmere shawls, requires years of ex- 
perience. As a rule, the clear and semi-transparent are the best; • 
then follow the numerous and almost imperceptible varieties of 
dull white, lemon colour, amber yellow, rhubarb yellow, bright 
red, and dull red. Some specimens of this vegetable fossil ap- 
pear by their dirty and blackened hue to have been subjected to 
the influence of fire ; others again are remarkable for a tender 
grass-green colour. According to some authorities, the gum, 
when long kept, has been observed to change its tinge. The 
sizes arc fine, medium, and large, with many subdivisions ; the 
pieces vary from the dimensions of small pebbles to 2 or 3 ounces; 
they have been known to weigh 5 lbs., and, it is said, at Salem 

DOS 



Digitized by Google 



I 



406 TUB LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

a piece of 35 lbs. is shown. Lastly, the gum is thrown broad- 
cast into boxes and exported from the island. The Hamburg 
merchants keep European coopers, who put together the cases 
whose material is sent out to them. It is almost impossible to 
average the export of copal from Zanzibar. According to the 
late Lieutenant-Colonel Hamerton, it varies from 800,000 to 
1,200,000 lbs. per annum, of winch Hamburg absorbs 150,000 
lbs., and Bombay two lacs' worth. The refuse copal used for- 
merly to reach India as " packing," being deemed of no value in 
commerce ; of late years the scarcity of the supply has rendered 
merchants more careful. The price, also, is subject to incessant 
fluctuations, and during the last few years it has increased from 
4 doL 50 cents to a maximum of 12 dollars per frasilah. 

According to the Arabs, the redder the soil the better Is the 
copal. The superficies of the copal country is generally a thin 
coat of white sand, covering a dark and fertilising humus, the 
vestiges of decayed vegetation, which varies from a few inches 
to a foot and a half in depth. In the island of Zanzibar, which 
produces only the chakazi or raw copal, the subsoil is a stiff blue 
clay, the raised sea-beach, and the ancient habitat of the coco. 
It becomes greasy and adhesive, clogging the hoe in its lower 
bed ; where it is dotted with bloocl-coloured fragments of ochreish 
earth, proving the presence of oxidising and chalybeate efficients, 
and with a fibrous light-red matter, apparently decayed coco- 
roots. At a depth of from 2 to 3 feet water oozes from the 
greasy walls of the pit. When digging through these formations, 
the gum copal occurs in the vegetable soil overlying the clayey 
Bubsoil. 

A visit to the little port of Saadani afforded different results. 
After crossing 3 miles of alluvial and maritime plain, covered 
with a rank vegetation of spear grass and low thorns, with occa- 
sional mimosas and tall hyphasna?, which have supplanted the 
coco, the traveller finds a few scattered specimens of the living 
tree and pits dotting the ground. The diggers, however, ge- 
nerally advance another mile to a distinctly formed sea-beach, 
marked with lateral bands of quartzose and water-rolled pebbles, 
and swelling gradually to 150 feet from the alluvial plain. The 
thin but rich vegetable covering supports a luxuriant thicket, 
the subsoil is red and sandy, and the colour darkens as the 
excavation deepens. After 3 feet, fibrous matter appears, and 
below this copal, dusty and comminuted, is blended with the red 
ochreish earth. The guides assert that they have never hit upon 
the subsoil of blue clay, but they never dig lower than a man's 
waist, and the pits are seldom more than 2 feet in depth. Though 



Digitized by LiOOQle 



APPENDIX I. 



407 



the soil is red, the copal of Saadani is not highly prized, being 
of a dull white colour; it is usually designated as "chakazi." 

On the line inland from Bagaraoyo and Kaole the copal-trco 
was observed at rare intervals in the forests, aud the pits ex- 
tended as far as Muhonyera, about 40 miles in direct distance 
from the coast The produce of this country, though not first- 
rate, is considered far superior to that about Saadani. 

Good copal is dug in the vicinity of Mbuamaji, and the dig- 
gings arc said to extend to 6 marches inland. The Wadcnkereko, 
a wild tribe, mixed with and stretching southwards of the Wa- 
zammo, at a distance of two days' journey from the sea, supply 
a mixed quality, more often white than red. The best gums are 
procured from Hunda and its adjacent districts. Frequent feuds 
with the citizens deter the wild people from venturing out of 
their jungles, and thus the Banyans of Mbuamaji find two small 
dows sufficient for the carriage of their stores. At that port the 
price of copal varies from 2 dol. 50 cents to 3 dol. per frasilah. 

The banks of the Rufiji River, especially the northern district 
of Wande, supply the finest and best of ccpal ; it is dug by the 
Wawandc tribe, who either carry it to Kikunya and other ports, 
or sell it to travelling hucksters. The price in loco is from 
1 dol. 50 cents to 2 dollars per frasilah ; on the coast it rises to 
3 dol. 50 cents. At all these places the tariff varies with the 
Bombay market, and in 1858 little was exported owing to the 
enlistment of " free labourers." 

In the vicinity of Kilwa, for four marches inland, copal is dug 
up by the Mandandu and other tribes ; owing to the facility of 
carriage and the comparative safety of the country it is somewhat 
dearer than that purchased on the banks of the Rufiji. The 
copal of Ngao (Monghou) and the Lindi creek is much cheaper 
than at Kilwa ; the produce, however, is variable in quality, 
being mostly a dull white chakazi. 

Like that of East African produce generally, the exploi- 
tation of copal is careless and desultory. The diggers are of 
the lowest classes, and hands are much wanted. Near the 
seaboard it is worked by the fringe of Moslem negroids called 
the Wamrima or Coast clans ; each gang has its own mtu mku 
or akida'ao (mucaddum — headman), who, by distributing the 
stock, contrives to gain more and to labour less than the others. 
In the interior it is exploited by the Washenzi or heathen, who 
work independently of one another. When there is no blood- 
feud they carry it down to the coast, otherwise they must await 
the visits of petty retail dealers from the ports, who enter the 
country with ventures of 10 or 12 dollars, and barter for it cloth, 

D d 4 



Digitized by Google 



408 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

beads, and wire. The kosi — south-west or rainy monsoon — is 
the only period of work ; the kaskazi, or dry season, is a dead 
time. The hardness of the ground is too mucli for the energies 
of the people : moreover, " kaskazi copal " gives trouble in 
washing on account of the sand adhering to its surface, and the 
flakes arc liable to break. As a rule, the apathetic Moslem and 
the futile heathen will not work whilst a pound of grain remains 
in their huts. The more civilised use a little jembe or hoe, an 
implement about as efficient as the wooden spade with which an 
English child makes dirt-pies. 

The people of the interior "crow" a hole about six inches in 
diameter with a pointed stick, and scrape out the loosened earth 
with the hand as far as the arm will reach. They desert the 
digging before it is exhausted; and although the labourers could 
each, it is calculated, easily collect from ten to twelve lbs. per 
diem, they prefer sleeping through the hours of heat, and content 
themselves with as many ounces. Whenever upon the coast 
there is a blood-feud — and these are uncommonly frequent — a 
drought, a famine, or a pestilence, workmen strike work, and 
cloth and beads are aflfered in vain. It is evident that the copal- 
mine can never be regularly and efficiently worked as long as it 
continues in the hands of such unworthy miners. The energy 
of Europeans, men of capital and purpose, settled on the sea- 
board with gangs of foreign workmen, would soon remedy 
existing evils; but they would require not only the special 
permission, but also the protection of the local government 
And although the intensity of the competition principle amongst 
the Arabs has not yet emulated the ferocious rivalry of civilisa- 
tion, the new settlers must expect considerable opposition from 
those in possession. Though the copal diggings arc mostly 
situated beyond the jurisdiction of Zanzibar, the tract labours 
under all the disadvantages of a monopoly: the diwans, the 
heavy merchants, and the petty traders of the coast derive from 
it, it is supposed, profits varying from 80 to 100 per cent Like 
other African produce, though almost dirt-cheap, it becomes 
dear by passing through many hands, and the frasilah, worth 
from 1 to 3 dollars in the interior, acquires a value of from 8 to 
9 dollars at Zanzibar. 

Zanzibar is the principal mart for perhaps the finest and 
largest ivory in the world. It collects the produce of the lands 
lying between the parallels of 2° N. lat and 10° S. lat,and the 
area extends from the coast to the regions lying westward of the 
Tanganyika Lake. It is almost the only legitimate article of 
traffic for which caravans now visit the interior. 



Digitized by Google 



APPEXDIX I. 



409 



An account of the ivory markets in Inner Africa will remove 
sundry false impressions. The Arabs are full of fabulous reports 
concerning regions where the article may be purchased for its 
circumference in beads, and greed of gain has led many of them 
to danger and death. Wherever tusks are used as cattle-pens 
or to adorn graves, the reason is that they are valueless on 
account of the want of conveyance. 

The elephant has not wholly disappeared from the maritime 
regions of Zanzibar. It is found, especially during the rainy 
monsoon, a few miles behind Pangani town: it exists also 
amongst the Wazegura, as far as their southern limit, the Gama 
River. The Wadoe hunt the animal in the vicinity of Shakini, 
a peak within sight of Zanzibar. Though killed out of Uzaramo, 
and K'hutu, it is found upon the banks of the Kingani and the 
Rufiji rivers. The coast people now sell their tusks for 30 to 
35 dollars' worth of cloth, beads, and wire per frasilah. 

In Western Usagara the elephant extends from Maroro to 
Ugogi. The people, however, being rarely professional hunters, 
content themselves with keeping a look-out for the bodies of 
animals that have died of thirst or of wounds received elsewhere. 
As the chiefs are acquainted with the luxuries of the coast, their 
demands are fantastic. They will ask, for instance, for a large 
tusk — the frasilah is not used in inland sales — a copper caldron 
worth 15 dollars; a khesi, or fine cloth, costing 20 dollars; and 
a variable quantity of blue and white cottons : thus, an ivory, 
weighing perhaps 3 frasilah, may be obtained for 50 dollars. 

Ugogo and its encircling deserts are peculiarly rich in 
elephants. The people are eminently hunters, and, as has 
been remarked, they trap the animals, and in droughty sea- 
sons they find many dead in the jungles. Ivory is somewhat 
dearer in Ugogo than in Unyamwezi, as caravans rarely visit 
the coasts. It is generally bartered to return caravans for 
slaves brought from the interior; of these, five or six represent 
the value of a large tusk. 

The ivory of Unyamwezi is collected from the districts of 
Mgunda Mk'hali, Usukuma, Umanda, Usagozi, and other adja- 
cent regions. When the " Land of the Moon" was first visited 
by the Arabs, they purchased, it is said, 10 farasilah of ivory 
with 1 frasilah of the cheap white or blue porcelains. The 
price is now between 30 and 35 dollars per frasilah in cloth, 
beads, and wire. The Africans, ignoring the frasilah, estimate 
the value of the tusk by its size and quality; and the Arabs 
ascertain its exact weight by steelyards. Moreover, they raise 
the weight of what they purchase to 48 lbs., and diminish that 



Digitized by Google 



410 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



which they sell to 23*50 lbs., calling both by the same name, 
frasilah. When the Arab wishes to raise an outfit at Unyan- 
ycnibc he can always command three gorahs of domestics (locally- 
worth 30 dollars) per frasilah of ivory. Merchants visiting 
Karagwah, where the ivory is of superior quality, lay in a stock 
of white, pink, blue, green, and coral beads, and brass armlets, 
which must be made up at Unyanyembe to suit the tastes of 
the people. Cloth is little in demand. For one frasilah of 
beads and brass wire they purchase about one and a half of ivory. 
At K'hokoro the price of tusks has greatly risen ; a large speci- 
men can scarcely be procured under 40 doti of domestics, one 
frasilah of brass wire, and 100 fundo of coloured beads. The 
tusks collected in this country are firm, white, and soft, some- 
times running 6 farasilah (210 lbs.) The small quantity col- 
lected in Ubena, Urori, and the regions east of the Tanganyika 
Lake, resembles that of K'hokoro. 

The ivory of Ujiji is collected from the provinces lying 
around the northern third of the lake, especially from Urundi 
and Uvira. These tusks have one great defect; though white 
and smooth when freshly taken from the animal, they put forth 
after a time a sepia-coloured or dark brown spot, extending like 
a ring over the surface, which gradually spreads and injures the 
texture. Such is the " Jcndai" or " Gendai" ivory, well known 
at Zanzibar : it is apt to flake off outside, and is little prized on 
account of its lightness. At Ujiji tusks were cheap but a few 
years ago, now they fetch an equal weight of porcelain or glass 
beads, in addition to which the owners — they arc generally 
many — demand from 4 to 8 cloths. Competition, which amongst 
the Arabs is usually somewhat unscrupulous, has driven the 
ivory merchant to regions far west of the Tanganyika, and 
geography will thrive upon the losses of commerce. 

The process of elephant-hunting, the complicated division of 
the spoils, and the mode of transporting tusks to the coast, have 
already been described. A quantity of ivory, as has appeared, 
is wasted in bracelets, armlets, and other ornaments. This 
would not be the case were the imports better calculated to suit 
the tastes of the people. At present the cloth-stuffs are little 
prized, and the beads are not sufficiently varied for barbarians 
who, eminently fickle, require change by way of stimulant. The 
Arabs seek in ivory six qualities : it must be white, heavy, soft, 
thick — especially at the point — gently curved — when too much 
curved it loses from 10 to 14 per cent. — and it must be marked 
with dark surface-lines, like cracks, running longitudinally to- 
wards the point It is evident from the preceding details that 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 



411 



the Arab merchants gain but little beyond a livelihood in plenty 
and dignity by their expeditions to the interior. An invest- 
ment of 1,000 dollars rarely yields more than 70 farasilah (2450 
lbs.) Assuming the high price of Zanzibar at an average of 50 
dollars per farasilah, the stock would be worth 3500 dollars — a 
net profit of 1050 dollars. Against this, however, must be set 
off the price of porterage and rations — equal to at least five 
dollars per frasilah — the enormous interest upon the capital, the 
wastage of outfit, and the risk of loss, which, upon the whole, is 
excessive. Though time, toil, and sickness, not being matters 
of money, are rarely taken into consideration by the Eastern 
man, they must be set down on the loss side of the account. 
It is therefore plain that commercial operations on such a scale 
can be remunerative only to a poor people, and that they 
can be rendered lucrative to capitalists only by an extension 
and a development which, depending solely upon improved 
conveyance, must be brought about by the energy of Euro- 
peans. For long centuries past and for centuries to come the 
Semite and the Ilamite have been and will be contented with 
human labour. The first thought which suggests itself to the 
sons of Japhet is a tramroad from the coast to the Lake regions. 

The subject of ivory as sold at Zanzibar is as complicated as 
that of sugar in Great Britain or of cotton in America. A de- 
tailed treatise would here be out of place, but the following no- 
tices may serve to convey an idea of the trade. 

The merchants at Zanzibar recognise in ivory, the produce of 
these regions, three several qualities. The best, a white, soft, 
and large variety, with small *' bamboo," is that from the Bana- 
dir, Brava, Makdishu, and Marka, A somewhat inferior kind, 
on account of its hardness, is brought from the countries of 
Chaga, Umasai, and Nguru. The Wamasai often spoil their 
tusks by cutting them, for the facility of transport; and, like the 
people of Nguru and other tribes, they stain the exterior by 
sticking the tooth in the sooty rafters of their chimneyless huts, 
with the idea that so treated it will not craok or split in the sun. 
This red colour, erroneously attributed at Zanzibar to the use 
of ghee, is removed by the people with blood, or cowdung mixed 
with water. Of these varieties the smaller tusks fetch from 40 
to 50 dollars ; when they attain a length of 6 feet, the price 
would be 12/. ; and some choice specimens 7^ feet long fetch 60/. 
A lot of 47 tusks was seen to fetch 1500/. ; the average weight 
of each was 95 lbs., 80 being considered moderate, and from 70 
to 75 lbs. poor. 

The second quality is that imported from the regions about 



Digitized by Google 



412 



THE LAKE REGION'S OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the Nyassa Lake, and carried to Kilwa by the Wabisa, the 
Wahiao, the Wangindo, the Wamakua, and other clans. The 
" Bisha ivory " formerly found its way to the Mozambique, but 
the barbarians have now learned to prefer Zanzibar ; and the 
citizens welcome them, as they sell their stores more cheaply 
than the Wahiao, who have become adepts in coast arts. The 
ivory of the Wabisa, though white and soft, is generally small, 
the full length of a tusk being 7 feet. The price of the " bab 
kalasi" — scrivellos or small tusks, under 20 lbs. — is from 24 to 
25 dollars ; and the value increases at the rate of somewhat less 
than 1 dollar per lb. The " bab gujrati or kashshi," the bab 
kashshi, is that intended for the Cutch market. The tusk must 
be of middling size, little bent, very bluff at the point as it is 
intended for rings and armlets ; the girth must be a short span 
and three fingers, the bamboo shallow and not longer than a 
hand. Ivory fulfilling all these conditions will sell as high as 
70 dollars per frasilah, — medium size of 20 to 45 lbs. — fetches 
56 to 60 dollars. The " bab wilaiti," or "foreign sort," is that 
purchased in European and American markets. The largest size 
is preferred, which ranging from 45 to 100 lbs., may be pur- 
chased for 52 dollars per frasilah. 

The third and least valued quality is the western ivory, the 
Gcndai, and other varieties imported from Usagara, Uhehc, 
Urori, Unyamwezi, and its neighbourhood. The price varies 
according to size, form, and weight, from 45 to 56 dollars per 
frasilah. 

The transport of ivory to the coast, and the profits derived by 
the maritime settlers, Arab and Indian, have been described. 
When all fees have been paid, the tusk, guarded against 
smuggling by the custom-house stamp, is sent to Zanzibar. Ou 
the island scrivellos under 6 lbs. in weight are not registered. 
According to the late Lieutenant-Colonel Hamerton, the annual 
average of large tusks is not less than 20,000. The people of 
the country make the weight range between 17,000 and 25,000 
frasilah. The tusk is larger at Zanzibar than elsewhere. At 
Mozambique, for instance, 60 lbs. would be considered a good 
average for a lot* Monster tusks are spoken of. Specimens of 
6 farasilah are not very rare, and the people have traditions that 
these wonderful armatures have extended to 227 lbs., and even 
to 280 lbs. each. 

Amongst the minor articles of export from the interior, hip- 
popotamus teeth have been enumerated. Beyond the coast, 
however, they form but a slender item in the caravan load. In 
the inner regions they are bought in retail ; the price ranges 



Digitized by Google 



AITEXD1X I. 



between 1 and 2 fundo of beads, and at times 3 may be procured 
for a shukkah. On the coast they rise, when fine, to 25 dollars 
per frasilah. At Zanzibar a large lot, averaging 6 to 8 lbs. in 
weight (12 lbs. would be about the largest), will sell for 60 
dollars ; per frasilah of 5 lbs. from 40 to 45 dollars : whilst the 
smallest fetch from 5 to 6 dollars. Of surpassing hardness, 
they are still used in Europe for artificial teeth. In America 
porcelain bids fair to supplant them. 

The gargatan (karkadan ?), or small black rhinoceros with a 
double horn, is as common as the elephant in the interior. The 
price of the horn is regulated by its size ; a small specimen is to 
be bought for 1 jembe or iron hoe. When large the price is 
doubled. Upon the coast a lot fetches from 6 to 9 dollars per 
frasilah, which at Zanzibar increases to from 8 to 1 2 dollars. The 
inner barbarians apply plates of the horn to helcomas and ulce- 
rations, and they cut it into bits, which are bound with twine 
round the limb, like the wooden mpigii or hirizi. Large horns 
are imported through Bombay to China and Central Asia, where 
it is said the people convert them into drin king-cups, which sweat 
if poison be administered in them : thus they act like the Vene- 
tian glass of our ancestors, and are as highly prized as that ec- 
centric fruit the coco de mer. The Arabs of Maskat and Yemen 
cut them into sword-hilts, dagger-hafts, tool-handles, and small 
boxes for tobacco, and other articles. They greatly prize, and 
will pay 12 dollars per frasilah, for the spoils of the kobaoba, or 
long-horned white rhinoceros, which, however, appears no longer 
to exist in the latitudes westward of Zanzibar island. 

Black cattle are seldom driven down from the interior, on ac- 
count of the length and risk of the journey. It is evident, how- 
ever, that the trade is capable of extensive development. The 
price of full-grown bullocks varies, according to the distance from 
the coast, between 3 and 5 doti ; whilst that of cows is about 
double. When imported from the mainland ports, 1 dollar per 
head is paid as an octroi to the government, and about the same 
sum for passage-money. As Banyans will not allow this traffic 
to be conducted by their dwn craft, it is confined to the Moslem 
population. The island of Zanzibar is supplied with black cattle, 
chiefly from the Banadir and Madagascar, places beyond the 
range of this description. The price of bullocks varies from 5 to 
8 dollars, and of cows from 6 to 9 dollars. Goats and sheep 
abound throughout Eastern Africa. The former, which are 
preferred, cost in the maritime regions from 8 to 10 shukkah 
iiicrkani ; in Usagara, the most distant province which exports 
them to Zanzibar, they may be bought for 4 to 6 shukkah per 



Digitized by Google 



414 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

head. The AVasawahili conduct a small trade in this live stock, 
and sell them upon the island for 4 to 5 dollars per head. From 
their large profits, however, must be deducted the risk of trans- 
port, the price of passage, and the octroi, which is 25 cents per 
head. 

The exceptional expense of man-carriage renders the exporta- 
tion of hides and horns from the far interior impossible. The 
former are sold with the animal, and are used for shields, bedding, 
saddle-bags, awnings, sandals, and similar minor purposes. Skins, 
as has been explained, are in some regions almost the only wear; 
consequently the spoils of a fine goat command, even in far 
Usukuma, a doti of domestics. The principal wild hides, which, 
however, rarely find their way to the coast, are those of the 
rhinoceros — much prized by the Arabs for targes— the lion and 
the leopard, the giraffe and the buffalo, the zebra and the quagga. 
Horns are allowed to crumble upon the ground. The island of 
Zanzibar exports hides and skins, which are principally those of 
bullocks and goats brought from Brava, Marka, Makdishu, and 
the Somali country. The korjah or score of the former has risen 
from 10 to 24 dollars; and the people have learned to mix them 
with the spoils of wild animals, especially the buffalo. When 
taken from the animal the hides are pinned down with pegs pas- 
sed through holes in the edges ; thus they dry without shrinking, 
and become stiff as boards. When thoroughly sun-parched 
they are put in soak and are pickled in sea-water for forty -eight 
hours ; thus softened, they are again stretched and staked, that 
they may remain smooth : as they are carelessly removed by the 
natives, the meat fat, flippers, ears, and all the parts likely to be 
corrupted, or, to prevent close stowage, are cut off whilst wet. 
They are again thoroughly sun-dried, the grease which exudes 
during the operation is scraped off, and they are beaten with 
sticks to expel the dust. The Hamburg merchauts paint their 
hides with an arsenical mixture, which preserves them during 
the long months of magazine-storing and sea-voyage. The French 
and American traders omit this operation, and their hides suffer 
severely from insects. 

Details concerning the growth of cereals in the interior have 
occurred in the preceding pages. Grain is never exported from 
the lands lying beyond the maritime regions : yet the disforesting 
of the island of Zanzibar and the extensive plantations of clove- 
trees rendering a lar^e importation of cereals necessary to the 
Arabs, an active business is carried on by Arab dows from the 
whole of the coast between Tanga and Ngao (Monghou), and 
during the dear season, after the rains, considerable profits are 



Digitized by Google 



AFPEXDIX I. 



41.1 



realised. The corn measures used by the Banyans arc as 
follows: — 

2 Kubabah (each from 1-2.5 to 150 lbs , in fact, our "<tuart") =1 Kisaga. 

3 Kubabah = 1 Pishi (in Khutu the Pishi=2 Kubabah). 

4 Kubabah=l Kayla (equal to 2 Man). 
24 Kayla =1 Frasilah. 

60 Kayla =1 Jizlab, in Kisawahili Mzo. 
20 Farasilah = l Kandi (candy). 

As usual in these land?, the kubabah or unit is made to be 
arbitrary ; it is divided into two kinds, large and small. The 
measure is usually a gourd. 

The only timber now utilised in commerce is the mukanda'a 
or red and white mangrove, which supplies the well-known bordi 
or " Zanzibar rafters." They are the produce of the fluviatile 
estuaries and the marine lagoons, and attain large dimensions 
under the influence of potent heat and copious rains. The best 
is the red variety, which, when thrown upon the shore, stains 
the sand ; it grows on the soft and slimy bank, and anchors 
itself with ligneous shoots to the shifting soil. The white man- 
grove, springing from harder ground, dispenses with these sup- 
ports ; it is called mti wa muytu (" wild wood "), and is quickly 
destroyed by worms. Indeed, all the bordi at Zanzibar begin 
to fail after the fifth year if exposed to the humid atmosphere; 
at Maskat it is said they will last nearly a century. The rafter 
trade is conducted by Arab dows : the crews fell the trees, after 
paying 2 or 3 dollars in cloth by way of ada or present to the 
diwan, who permits them to hire labourers. The korjah or 
score of cut and trimmed red mangrove rafters formerly cost at 
Zanzibar 1 dollar ; the price has now risen to 2 and 3 dollars. 
This timber finds its way to Aden and the woodless lands of 
Eastern and Western Arabia ; at Jcddah they have been known 
to fetch 1 dollar each. 

The maritime regions also supply a small quantity of the 
"grenadille wood," called by the people, who confound it with 
real ebony (Diospyros ebenus), abnus and pingu. It is not so 
brittle as ebony ; it is harder than lignum-vit® (G. officinalis), 
spoiling the common saw, and is readily recognised by its 
weight. As it does not absorb water or grease, it is sent to 
Europe for the mouth-pieces and flanges of instruments, and 
for the finer parts of mills. The people use it in the interior for 
pipe-bowls. 

The mpira or caoutchouc-tree (Ficus elastica) grows abun- 
dantly throughout the maritime regions. A few lumps of the 
gum were brought to Zanzibar at the request of a merchant. 



Digitized by Google 



41(> 



THE LAKE REGIONS OP CENTRAL AFRICA. 



who offered a large sum for a few tons, in the vain hope of 
stimulating the exploitation of this valuable article. The 
specimens were not, however, cast in moulds as by the South 
American Indians ; they were full of water, and even fouler 
than those brought from Madagascar. To develop the trade 
European supervision would be absolutely necessary during the 
season for tapping the trees. 

A tree growing upon the coast and common in Madagascar 
produces, when an incision has been made in the bark, a juice 
inspissating to the consistency of soft soap, and much resembling 
the Indian " kokam." This " kanya " is eaten by Arabs and 
Africans, with the idea that it "moistens the body: ** in cases 
of stiff joints, swellings of the extremities, and contractions of 
the sinews, it is melted over the fire and is rubbed into the 
skin for a fortnight or three weeks. 

The produce and the value of the coco and areca palms have 
already been noted. Orchella-wecd (Rocilla fuciformis?) a 
lichen most valuable in dyeing, is found, according to the late 
Lieut-Colonel Hamerton, growing on trees and rocks through- 
out the maritime regions. The important growths of the in- 
terior are the frankincense and bdellium, the coffee and nutmeg 
— which, however, are still in a wild state — the tamarind, and 
the sisam or black wood. The largest planks are made of the 
mtimbati (African teak?) and the nivule ; they are now ex- 
ported from the coast to the island, where they have almost died 
out. As the art of sawing is unknown, a fine large tree is in- 
variably sacrificed for a single board. It was the opinion of the 
late Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton that a saw-mill at the mouth of 
the Pangani River would, if sanctioned by the local govern- 
ment, be highly remunerative. 

Cowries, called by the Arabs kaure, in Kisawahili khete, 
and in the interior simbi, arc collected from various places in 
the coast-region between Has Hafun and the Mozambique. 
This trade is in the hands of Moslem hucksters ; the Banyan 
who has no objection to the valuable ivory or hippopo- 
tamus-tooth, finds his religion averse to the vile spoils of the 
Cypirea. Cowries are purchased on the mainland by a curious 
specimen of the " round-trade ; " money is not taken, so the 
article is sold measure for measure of holcus grain. From 
Zanzibar the cowrie takes two directions. As it forms the cur- 
rency of the regions north of the " Land of the Moon," and is 
occasionally demanded as an ornament in Unyamwczi, the 
return African porters, whose labour costs them nothing, often 
partly load themselves with the article ; the Arab, on the other 



Digitized by Google 



A1TEXDIX I. 



417 



hand, who seldom visits the northern kingdoms, docs not find 
compensation for porterage and rations. The second and prin- 
cipal use of cowries is for exportation to the West African coast, 
where they arc used in currency— 50 strings, each of 40 sheik, 
or a total of 2000, representing the dollar. This, in former 
days a most lucrative trade, is now nearly ruined. Cowries 
were purchased at 75 cents per jizlah, which represents from 
3 to sacks, of which much, however, was worthless. The 
6acks in which they were shipped cost in Zanzibar 1 dollar 
44 cents, and fetched in West Africa 8 or 9 dollars. The 
shells sold at the rate of 80/. (60/. was the average English 
price) per ton ; thus the profits were estimated at 500 percent, 
and a Hamburg house rose, it is said, by this traffic, from 1 to 
18 ships, of which 7 were annually engaged in shipping cowries. 
From 75 cents the price rose to 4 dollars, it even attained a 
maximum of 10 dollars, the medium being 6 and 7 dollars per 
jizlah, and the profits necessarily declined. 

Cotton is indigenous to the more fertile regions of Eastern as 
well as of Western Africa. The specimens hitherto imported 
from Port Natal and from Angola have ^iven satisfaction, as 
they promise, with careful cultivation, to rival in fineness, firm- 
ness, and weight the medium-staple cotton of the New World. 
On the line between Zanzibar and the Tanganyika Lake the 
shrub grows almost wild, with the sole exception of Ugogo and 
its two flanks of wilderness, where the ground is too hard and 
the dry season too prolonged to support it. The partial existence 
of the same causes renders it scarce and dear in Unyamwczi. A 
superior quality was introduced by the travelling Arabs, but it 
8->on degenerated. Cotton flourishes luxuriantly in the black 
earths fat with decayed vegetation, and on the rich red clays of 
the coast regions, of Usumbara, Usagara, and Ujiji, where water 
underlies the surface. These almost virgin soils are peculiarly 
fitted by atmospheric and geologic conditions for the development 
of the shrub, and the time may come when vast tracts, nearly 
half the superficies of the lands, here grass-grown, there cum- 
bered by the primeval forest, may be taught to bear crops equal- 
ling the celebrated growths of Egypt and Algeria, Harar and 
Abyssinia. At present the cultivation is nowhere encouraged, 
and it is limited by the impossibility of exportation to the scanty 
domestic requirements of the people. It is grown from seed 
sown immediately after the rains, and the only care given to it 
is the hedging requisite to preserve the dwarf patches from the 
depredations of cattle. In some parts the shrub is said to wither 
after the third year, in others to be perennial 

VOL II. EE 



Digitized by Google 



418 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



Upon the coast the cotton grown by the Wasawahili and 
Wamrima is chiefly used as lamp-wicks and for similar domestic 
purposes ; Zanzibar Island is supplied from Western India. The 
price of raw uncleaned cotton iu the mountain regions is about 
0*25 dollar per maund of 3 Arab lbs. In Zanzibar, where the 
msufi or bombax abounds, its fibrous substance is a favourite 
substitute for cotton, and costs about half the price. In Unyam- 
wezi it fetches fancy prices ; it is sold in handfuls for salt, beads, 
and similar articles. About I maund may be purchased for a 
shukkah, and from 1 to 2 oz. of rough home-spun yarn for a 
fundo of beads. At Ujiji the people bring it daily to the bazar 
and spend their waste time in spinning yarn with the rude im- 
plements before described. This cotton, though superior in 
quality, as well as quantity, to that of Unyanyerabe, is but little 
less expensive. 

Tobacco grows plentifully in the more fertile regions of East 
Africa. Planted at the end of the rains, it gains strength by 
sun and dew, and is harvested in October. It is prepared for 
sale in different forms. Everywhere, however, a simple sun- 
drying supplies the place of cocking and sweating, and the people 
are not so fastidious as to reject the lower or coarser leaves and 
those tainted by the earth. Usumbara produces what is con- 
sidered at Zanzibar a superior article: it is kneaded into little 
circular cakes four inches in diameter by half an inch deep : rolls 
of these cakes are neatly packed in plantain-leaves for exporta- 
tion. The next in order of excellence is that grown in Uhiao : 
it is exported in leaf or in the form called kambari, "roll- tobacco," 
a circle of coils each about an inch in diameter. The people of 
Khutu and Usagara mould the pounded and wetted material into 
discs like cheeses, 8 or 9 inches across by 2 or 3 in depth, and 
weighing about 3 lbs.; they supply the Wagogo with tobacco, 
taking in exchange for it salt. The leaf in Unyamwezi gener- 
ally is soft and perishable, that of Usukuma being the worst : it 
is sold in blunt cones, so shaped by the mortars in which they 
arc pounded. At Karagwah, according to the Arabs, the tobacco, 
a superior variety, tastes like musk in the water-pipe. The pro- 
duce of Ujiji is better than that of Unyamwezi ; it is sold in leaf, 
and is called by the Arabs hamumi, after a well-known growth 
in llazramaut. It is impossible to assign an average price to 
tobacco in East Africa; it varies from 1 khete of coral beads 
per 6 oz. to 2 lbs. 

Tobacco is chewed by the maritime races, the Wasawahili, and 
especially the Zanzibar Arabs, who affect a religious scruple 
about smoking. They usually insert a pinch of nurah or coral- 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX I. 419 

lime into their quids, — as the Sornal introduces ashes, — to make 
them bite ; in the interior, where calcareous formations are de- 
ficient, they procure the article from cowries brought from the 
coast, or from shells found in the lakes and streams. About 
Unyamwezi all sexes and ages enjoy the pipe. Farther eastward 
snuff is preferred. The liquid article in fashion amongst the 
Wajiji has already been described. The dry snuff is made of 
leaf toasted till crisp and pounded between two stones, mixed 
with a little mag&di or saltpetre, sometimes scented with the 
heart of the plantain-tree and stored in the tumbakira or 
gourd-box. 

The other articles exported from the coast to Zanzibar are 
bees-wax and honey, tortoiseshell and ambergris, ghee, tobacco, 
the sugar-cane, the wild arrowroot, gums, and fibrous substances; 
of these many have been noticed, and the remainder are of too 
trifling a value to deserve attention. 

To conclude the subject of commerce in East Africa. It is 
rather to the merchant than to the missionary that we must 
look for the regeneration of the country by the development of 
her resources. The attention of the civilized world, now turned 
towards this hitherto neglected region, will presently cause 
slavery to cease ; man will not risk his all in petty and passion- 
less feuds undertaken to sell his weaker neighbour; and 
commerce, which induces mansuetude of manners, will create 
wants and interests at present unknown. As the remote is 
gradually drawn nigh, and the difficult becomes accessible, the 
intercourse of man — strongest instrument of civilisation in tho 
hand of Providence — will raise Africa to that place in the 
great republic of nations from which she has hitherto been 
unhappily excluded. 

Already a line of steam navigation from the Cape of Good 
Hope to Aden and the Red Sea, touching at the various im- 
portant posts upon the mainland and the islands of East Africa, 
has been proposed. This will be the first step towards material 
improvement The preceding pages have, it is believed, con- 
vinced the reader that the construction of a tramroad through a 
country abounding in timber and iron, and where only one pass 
of any importance presents itself, will be attended with no 
engineering difficulties. As the land now lies, trade stagnates, 
loanable capital remains idle, produce is depreciated, and new 
seats of enterprise are unexplored. The specific for existing 
evils is to be found in facilitating intercourse between the 
interior and the coast, and that this will in due season be effected 
we may no longer doubt 



Digitized by Google 



4-Jf. 



APPENDIX II. 



1. 

44 East India House, 13tli September, I80G. 
" Sir,— I am commanded by the Court of Directors of the 
East India Company to inform you, that, in compliance with 
the request of the Royal Geographical Society, you are per- 
mitted to be absent from your duties as a regimental officer 
whilst employed with an Expedition, under the patronage of 
Her Majesty's Government, to be despatched into Equatorial 
Africa, for the exploration of that country, for a period not 
exceeding two years. I am directed to add, that you are per- 
mitted to draw the pay and allowances of your rank during the 
period of your absence, which will be calculated from the date 
of your departure from Bombay. 

" I am, Sir, 

" Your most obedient humble Servant, 
" (Signature illegible.) 

• 4 Lieutenant It. Bubtoh." 

2. 

44 East India House, 24th October, 1856. 

'* Sir, — In consequence of a communication from the office 
of the Secretary of State for War, intimating that you arc 
required as a witness on the trial by Court-Martial now 
pending on Colonel A. Shirley, I am desired to convey to you 
the commands of the Court of Directors that you instantly 
return to London for that purpose. In obeying this order, 
you are required to proceed, not through France, but by the 
steamer direct from Alexandria to Southampton. You will 
report yourself to the Secretary of State for War immediately 
on your arrival. The agent for the East India Company in 
Egypt has received instructions by this mail to supply you with 
the necessary funds for your passage. 

" I am, Sir, 

" Your most obedient humble Servant, 
" (Signed) James Melville. 

14 Lieutenant Burton." 



Digitized by LiOOQle 



APPENDIX II. 



421 



3. 

" The Military Secretary, East India House, 

"Aden, 14th November. 

" Sir, — I have the honour to acknowledge your official letter 
of the 24th October, conveying to me the commands of the 
Court of Directors to return instantly to London by the 
steamer direct from Alexandria to Southampton. 

" The st earner in question left Alexandria on November 6th, 
at about 10 a.m. I received and acknowledged from the 
British Consulate your official letter on the same day at Cairo, 
about noon. No steamer leaves Alexandria before the 20th 
inst ; it is therefore evident that I could not possibly obey the 
order within the limits specified. 

" No mention was made about my returning to England by 
the next steamer, probably because the Court-Martial pending 
upon Colonel A. Shirley will before that time have come to a 
close. I need scarcely say, that should I, on arrival at Bombay, 
find an order to that effect, it shall be instantly and implicitly 
obeyed. 

" Considering, however, that I have already stated all that I 
know upon the subject of the Court-Martial in question — that 
I was not subpoenaed in England — that I am under directions 
of the Royal Geographical Society, and employed with an 
Expedition under the patronage of the Foreign Office — that 
without my proceeding to Bombay, valuable Government 
property would most probably have been lost, and the pre- 
parations for the Expedition have suffered from serious delay — 
and lastly, that by the loss of a few weeks a whole year's 
exploration must be allowed to pass by — I venture respectfully 
to hope that I have taken the proper course, and that should I, 
on my arrival in India, find no express and positive order for 
an immediate return to Europe, I may be permitted to proceed 
forthwith to Africa. 

" As a servant of the East India Company, in whose interests 
I have conscientiously and energetically exerted myself for the 
space of 14 years, I cannot but request the Court of Directors 
to use their powerful influence in my behalf. Private interests 
cannot be weighed against public duty. At the same time, I 
have already embarked a considerable sum in the materiel of 
the Expedition, paid passage money, and devoted time, which 
might otherwise have been profitably employed, to the subject 
of Equatorial Africa. I remained long enough in London to 
enable the War Office to call for my presence as a witness, 
and I ascertained personally from Major-General Beatson that 
lie had not placed inc upon his list. And finally, I venture to 

E B 3 



422 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

observe, that by returning to Europe now, I should be compro- 
mising the interests of the Royal Geographical Society, under 
which I am in fact virtually serving." 



4. 

" To the Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society, London. 

" Sir, — I have the honour to forward, for the information of 
the President and members of the Exj>cditionary Committee, 
a copy of a communication to my address from the Military 
Secretary to the Court of Directors, together with my reply 
thereto. On perusal of these documents, you will perceive that 
my presence is urgently demanded in England to give evidence 
on a Court-Martial, and that the letter desiring me to proceed 
forthwith to England arrived too late in Egypt to admit of my 
obeying that order. Were I now to proceed directly from 
Bombay to England, it is evident that the Expedition which I 
am undertaking under your direction, must be deferred to a 
future and uncertain date. With a view to obviate this 
uncalled-for delay, I have the honour to request that you will 
use your interest to the effect that, as an officer virtually in 
your service, I may be permitted to carry out the views of your 
Society ; and that my evidence, which can be of no importance 
to either prosecutor or defendant in the Court-Martial in 
question, may be dispensed with. I start this evening for 
Bombay, and will report departure from that place. 

" I have, &c, 

" R. F. Burton. 

"Camp, Aden, 14th November, 1856.* 



5. 

" To the Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society, London. 

" Sir, — I have the honour to inform you that on the 1st Dec. 
1856, 1 addressed to you a letter which I hope has been duly re- 
ceived. On the 2nd instant, in company with Lt. Speke, I 
left Bombay Harbour, on board the H.E.I.C's. ship of war 
' Elphin stone' (Capt. Frushard, I.N., commanding), en route 
to East Africa. 1 have little to report that may be interesting 
to geographers ; but perhaps some account of political affuirs in 
the Red Sea may be deemed worthy to be transmitted by you 
to the Court of Directors or to the Foreign Office. 

" As regards the Expedition, copies of directions and a memo- 
randum on instruments and observations for our guidance have 
come to hand. For observations, Lt. Speke and 1 must depend 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX II. 



upon our own exertions, neither Serjeants nor native students 
being procurable at the Bombay Observatory. The case of 
instruments and the mountain barometer have not been for- 
warded, but may still find us at Zanzibar. Meanwhile I have 
obtained from the Commanding Engineer, Bombay, one six- 
inch sextant, one five and a halt ditto, two prismatic compasses, 
five thermometers (of which two are B.P.), a patent lop, taper, 
protractors, stands, &c. ; also two pocket chronometers from the 
Observatory, duly rated; and Dr. Buist, Secretary, Bombay 
Geographical Society, has obliged me with a mountain baro- 
meter and various instructions about points of interest. Lt. 
Speke has been recommended by the local government to the 
Government of India for duty in East Africa, and the services 
of Dr. Steinhaeuser, who is most desirous to join us, have been 
applied for from the Medical Board, Bombay. I have strong 
hopes that both these officers will be allowed to accompany me, 
and that the Royal Geographical Society will use their efforts 
to that effect. 

" By the subjoined detailed account of preliminary expenses at 
Bombay, it will be seen that I have expended £70 out of £250, 
for which I was permitted to draw. 

u Although, as 1 before mentioned, the survey of Eastern In- 
tertropical Africa has for the moment been deferred, the neces- 
sity still exists. Even in the latest editions of Horsburgh, the 
mass of matter relative to Zanzibar is borrowed from the obser- 
vations of Capt. Bissel, who navigated the coast in H.M's. 
ships 'leopard 1 and ' Orestes' about a.d. 1799. Little is 
known of the great current which, setting periodically from and 
to the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, sweeps round the Eastern 
Horn of Africa. The reefs are still formidable to navigators ; 
and before these seas can be safely traversed by steamers from 
the Cape, as is now proposed, considerable additions must be 
made to Capt. Owen's survey in A.D. 1823-24. Finally, oper- 
ations on the coast will form the best introduction to the geo- 
graphical treasures of the interior. 

" The H.E.I. Company's surveying brig ' Tigris' will shortly 
be out of dock, where she has been undergoing a thorough 
repair, and if fitted up with a round house on the quarter-deck 
would answer the purpose well. She might be equipped in a 
couple of months, and dispatched to her ground before the 
South-west Monsoon sets in, or be usefully employed in observ- 
ing at Zanzibar instead of lying idle in Bombay Harbour. On 
former surveys of the Arabian and African Coasts, a small ten- 
der of from thirty to forty tons has always been granted, ns 
otherwise operations are much crippled in boisterous weather 

EK 4 



Digitized by Google 



424 



THE LAKE REGION'S OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



and exposed on inhospitable shores. Should no other vessel be 
available, one of the smallest of the new Pilot Schooners now 
unemployed at Bombay might be directed to wait upon the 
« Tigris? Lt. II. G. Fraser, I.N., has volunteered for duty 
upon the African Coast, and I have the hononr to transmit his 
letter. Nothing more would be required were some junior 
officer of the Indian Navy stationed at Zanzibar for the purpose 
of registering tidal, barometric, and thermometric observations, 
in order that something of the meteorology of this unknown 



"When passing through Aden I was informed that the 
blockade of the Somali Coast had been raised without compen- 
sation for the losses sustained on my last journey. This step 
appears, politically speaking, a mistake. In the case of the 
' Mary Ann* brig, plundered near Berberah in a.d. 1825, due 
compensation was demanded and obtained. Even in India, an 
officer travelling through the states not under British rule, can, 
if he be plundered, require an equivalent for his property. This 
is indeed our chief protection, — semi-barbarians and savages 
part with money less willingly than with life. If it be de- 
termined for social reasons at Aden that the blockade should 
cease and mutton become cheap, a certain per-centage could be 
laid upon the exports of Berberah till such time as our losses, 
which, including those of government, amount to 1380/., are 
made good. 

" F rom Harar news has reached Aden that the Amir Abu- 
bakr, dying during the last year of chronic consumption, has 
been succeeded by a cousin, one Abd el Rahman, a bigoted 
Moslem, and a violent hater of the G alias. His success in 
feud and foray, however, have not prevented the wild tribes 
from hemming him in, and unless fortune interfere, the city 
must fall into their hands. The rumour prevalent at Cairo, 
namely, that Harar had been besieged and taken by Mr. Bell, 
now serving under ' Theodorus, Emperor of Ethiopia' (the 
chief Cassai), appears premature. At Aden I met in exile 
Sharmarkay bin Ali Salih, formerly governor of Zayla. He 
has been ejected in favour of a Dankali chief by the Ottoman 
authorities of Yemen, a circumstance the more to be regretted 
as he has ever been a firm friend to our interests. 

"The present defenceless state of Berberah still invites our 
presence. The eastern coast of the lied Sea is almost entirely 
under the Porte. On the western shore, Cosseir is Egyptian, 
Masawwah, Sawakin, and Zayla, Turkish, and Berberah, the 
best port of all, unoccupied. I have frequently advocated the 
establishment of a British agency at this place, and venture to 




Digitized by Google 



APrEXDIX II. 



do so once more. This step would tend to increase trade, to 
obviate accidenta in case of shipwreck, and materially assist in 
civilizing the Soraal of the interior. The Government of Bom- 
bay has doubtless preserved copies of my reports, plans, and 
estimates concerning the proposed agency, and I would request 
the Royal Geographical Society to inquire into a project pecu- 
liarly 6tted to promote their views of exploration in the Eastern 
Horn of Africa. Finally, this move would checkmate any am- 
bitious projects in the Red Sea. The Suez Canal may be said 
to have commenced. It appears impossible that the work should 
pay in a commercial sense. Politically it may, if, at least, its 
object be, as announced by the Count d'Escayrac de Lauture, 
at the Soci6te* de Geographic, to ' throw open the road of India 
to the Mediterranean coasting trade, to democratise commerce 
and navigation.' The first effect of the highway would be, as 
that learned traveller justly remarks, to open a passage through 
Egypt to the speronari and feluccas of the Levant, the light 
infantry of a more regular force. 

" The next step should be to provide ourselves with a 
more efficient naval force at Aden, the Head-Quarters of the 
Red Sea Squadron. I may briefly quote as a proof of the 
necessity for protection, the number of British proteges in the 
neighbouring ports, and the present value of the Jeddah trade. 

Mocha now contains about twenty-five English subjects, the 
principal merchants in the place. At Masawwah, besides a few 
French and Americans, there are from sixteen to twenty British 
proteges, who trade with the interior, especially for mules 
required at the Mauritius and our other colonies. Hodaydah 
lias from fifty to sixty, and Jeddah, besides its dozen resident 
merchants, annually witnesses the transit of some hundreds 
of British subjects, who flock to the Haj for commerce and 
devotion. 

" The chief emporium of the Red Sea trade has for centuries 
past been Jeddah, the port of Meccah. The custom-house 
reports of 1856 were kindly furnished to me by Capt Frus- 
hard, I.N. (now commanding the H.E.I.C's. sloop of war, 
' ElphinstoneJ) an old and experienced officer, lately employed 
in blockading Berberah, and who made himself instrumental in 
quelling certain recent attempts upon Turkish supremacy in 
Western Arabia. According to these documents, thirty-five 
ships of English build (square-rigged) arrived at and left Jeddah 
between the end of September and April, from and for various 
places in the East, China, Batavia, Singapore, Calcutta, Bom- 
bay, the Malabar Coast, .the Persian Gulf, and Eastern Africa. 
Nearly all carried our colours, and were protected, or supposed 



Digitized by Google 



4->6 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to be protected, by a British register : only five had on board 
a European captain or sailing master, the rest being com- 
manded and officered by Arabs and Indians. Their cargoes 
from India and the Eastern regions are rice, sugar, piece goods, 
planking, pepper, and pilgrims; from Persia, dates, tobacco, 
and raw silk ; and from the Mozambique, ivory, gold dust, and 
similar costly articles. These imports in 1856 are valued at 
160,000/. The exports for the year, consisting of a little coffee 
and spice for purchase of imports, amounts, per returns, to 
120,000/. In addition to these square-rigged ships, the number 
of country vessels, open boats, buggalows, and others, from the 
Persian Gulf and the Indian Coasts, amount to 900, importing 
550,000/., and exporting about 400,000/. I may remark, that 
to all these sums at least one-third should be added, as specula- 
tion abounds, and books are kept by triple entry in the Holy 
Land. 

" The next port in importance to Jeddah is Hodaydah, where 
vessels touch on their way northward, land piece and other goods, 
and call on the return passage to fill with coffee. As the head- 
quarters of the Yemen Pashalik, it has reduced Mocha, formerly 
the great coffee mart, to insignificance, and the vicinity of Aden, 
a free port, has drawn off much of the stream of trade from both 
these ancient emporia. On the African Coast of the Red Sea, 
Sawakin, opposite Jeddah, is a mere slave mart, and Masawwah, 
opposite Hodaydah, still trades in pearls, gold dust, ivory, and 
mules. 

" But if the value of the Red Sea traffic calls, in the present 
posture of event*, for increased means of protection, the Slave- 
trade has equal claims to our attention. At Aden energetic 
efforts have been made to suppress it It is, however, still 
carried on by country boats from Sawakin, Tajurrah, Zayla, 
and the Somali Coast ; — a single cargo sometimes consisting of 
200 head gathered from the interior, and exported to Jeddah 
and the small ports lying north and south of it. The trade is, 
I believe, principally in the hands of Arab merchants at Jeddah 
and Hodaydah, and resident foreigners, principally Indian 
Moslems, who claim our protection in case of disturbances, and 
consequently carry on a thriving business. Our present Squad- 
ron in the Red Sea consisting of only two sailing vessels, the 
country boats in the African ports have only to wait till they 
see the ship pass up or down, and then knowing the passage—- 
a matter of a day — to be clear, to lodge the slaves at their desti- 
nation. During the past year, this trade was much injured by 
the revolt of the Arabs against the Turks, and the constant 
presence of the * ElphinstoneJ whose reported object was to 



Digitized by Google 



AFFEXDIX II, 



427 



seize all vessels carrying slaves. The effect was principally 
moral. Although the instructions for the guidance of the Com- 
mander enjoined him to carry out the wishes of the Home and 
Indian Governments for the suppression of Slavery, yet there 
being no published treaty between the Imperial Government 
and the Porte sanctioning to us the right of search in Turkish 
bottoms, his interference would not have been supported by the 
Ottoman local authorities. It may be well to state, that after a 
Firman had been published in the Hejaz and Gemen abolishing 
the trade, the Turkish Governments of Jeddah and Hodaydali 
declared that the English Commander might do as he pleased, 
but that they declined making any written request for his assist- 
ance. For its present increased duties, for the suppression of 
the Slave-trade, for the protection of British subjects, and 
for the watching over Turkish and English interests in the Red 
Sea, the Aden Squadron is no longer sufficient During the 
last two years it has numbered two sailing vessels, the 'Flphin- 
sto7iry a sloop of war, carrying twelve 32-poundcrs, and two 
12-pounders ; and the ' Mahi* a schooner armed with one pivot 
gun, 32-pounder, and two 1 2-pounders. Nor would it be bene- 
fited by even a considerable increase of sailing vessels. It is 
well known that, as the prevailing winds inside the sea are 
favourable for proceeding upwards from September to April, so 
on the return, during those months, they are strongly adverse. 
A fast ship, like the * Elphinstone? requires 30 days on the 
downward voyage to do the work of four. Outside the sea, 
during those months, the current sets inward from the Indian 
Ocean, and a ship, in event of very light winds falling, has been 
detained a whole week in sight of Aden. From April to 
September, on the contrary, the winds set down the Red Sea 
frequently with violence ; the current inside the sea also turns 
towards the Indian Ocean, and outside the S.W. Monsoon is 
blowing. Finally, sailing ships draw too much water. In 
the last year the ' Elphinstone' kept the Arabs away from 
Jeddah till the meanness of the Siicrif Abd el Muttalib had 
caused his downfall. But her great depth (about from 14-6 to 
15 ft.) prevented her approaching the shore at Hodaydah near 
enough to have injured the insurgents, who, unaware of the fact, 
delayed their attack upon the town till famine and a consequent 
pestilence dispersed them. With little increase of present ex- 
penditure, the Red Sea might be effectually commanded. Two 
screw -steamers, small enough to enter every harbour, and to 
work steadily amongst the banks on either shore, and yet large 
enough to be made useful in conveying English political officers 
of rank and Native Princes, when necessary, would amply 
suffice, a vessel of the class of II.M's gun-boat, 'Flying Fish, 9 



Digitized by Google 



428 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



drawing at most 9 feet water, and carrying four 32-poundcrs of 
25 cwt. each, as broadside, and two 32-pounders of 25 cwt. each, 
as pivot guns, would probably be that selected. The crews 
would consist of fewer men than those at present required, and 
means would easily be devised for increasing the accommodation 
of officers and men, and for securing their health and comfort 
during cruises that might last two months in a hot and dangerous 
climate. 

" By means of two such steamers we shall, I believe, be 
prepared for any contingencies which might arise in the Red 
Sea ; and if to this squadron be added an allowance for inter- 
preters and a slave approver in each harbour, in fact a few of 
the precautions practised by the West African Squadron, the 
slave -trade in the Ked Sea will soon have received its death- 
blow, and Eastern Africa its regeneration at our hands. 

"Ihave, &a, &c, 

"R. F. Burton, 

M Commanding East African Expedition. 
" II.E.I.C. Sloop of War ' Elphinsto,*; 
44 15th December, 1«5G" 



6. 

No. 961 of 1857. 

From H. L. Anderson, Esquire, Secretary to Government, 
Bombay, to Captain R. F. BURTON, 18M Regiment Bombay 
N.I. 

Dated the 23rd July, 1857. 
" Sir,— With reference to your letter, dated the 15th De- 
cember, 1856, to the address of the Secretary of the Royal 
Geographical Society of London, communicating your views on 
affairs in the Red Sea, and commenting on the political mea- 
sures of the Government of India, I am directed by the Right 
Honourable the Governor in Council to state, your want of 
discretion, and due respect for the authorities to whom you are 
subordinate, has been regarded with displeasure by Government. 
" I have the honour to be, Sir, 

" Your most obedient Servant, 

** (Signed) H. L. Anderson, 

44 Secretary to Government. 

44 Bombay Castle, 23rd Julj, 1857." 

7. 

THE MASSACRE AT JUDDATT. 
(Extract from the " Telegraph Courier, 11 Overland Summary, 

Bombay, August 4, 1858.) 
" On the 30th June, a massacre of nearly all the Christians 
tonl; place at Juddah on the Red Sea. Amongst the victims 



Digitized by Google 



AITE-VIMX II. 



429 



were Mr. Page, the British Consul, and the French Consul and 
his lady. Altogether the Arabs succeeded in slaughtering about 
twenty-five. 

" H.M. steamship Cyclops was there at the time, and the 
captain landed with a boat's crew, and attempted to bring off 
some of the survivors, but he was compelled to retreat, not 
without having killed a number of the Arabs. The next day, 
however, he succeeded in rescuing the few remaining Chris- 
tians, and conveyed them to Suez. 

u Amongst those who were fortunate enough to escape was 
the daughter of the French Consul ; and this she succeeded in 
doing through the fidelity of a native after she had killed 
two men with her own hands, and been severely wounded in 
the encounter. Telegraphic dispatches were transmitted to 
England and France, and the Cyclops is waiting orders at Suez. 
As it was apprehended that the news from Juddah might excite 
the Arab population of Suez to the commission of similar out- 
rages, H.R.M'8 Vice-Consul at that place applied to the Pasha 
of Egypt for assistance, which was immediately afforded by the 
landing of 500 Turkish soldiers, under the orders of the Pasha 
of Suez." 



8. 

" Unyanyembe, Central Africa, 24th June, 1858. 

" Sir, — I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of 
your official letter, No. 961 of 1857, conveying to me the dis- 
pleasure of the Government in consequence of my having com- 
municated certain views on political affairs in the lied Sea to 
the R. G. S. of Great Britain. 

" The paper in question was as is directly stated, and it was 
sent for transmission to the Board of Directors, or the Foreign 
Office, not for publication. I beg to express my regret that 
it should have contained any passages offensive to the autho- 
rities to whom I am subordinate; and to assure the Right 
Honourable the Governor in Council that nothing was farther 
from my intentions than to displease a government to whose 
kind consideration I have been, and am still, so much indebted. 

" In conclusion, I have the honour to remind you that I have 
received no reply to my official letter, sent from Zanzibar, 
urging our claims upon the Somal for the plunder of our pro- 
perty. 

" 1 have the honour to be, Sir, 

" Your most obedient Servant, 

" Richard. F. Burton, 

" Commanding East African Expedition. 
:i To the Sct uU.i v to Government, Homl>:iv." 



Digitized by Google 



430 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

9. 

No. 2845, of 1857. 

" Political Department. 

From H. L. Anderson, Esq., Secretary to Government of 
Bombay, to Capt. R. F. Burton, Commanding E. A. Expe- 
dition, Zanzibar, 

" Dated 13th June, 1857. 
" Sir, — I am directed by the Right Honourable the Governor 
in Council to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated the 
26th April last, soliciting compensation on behalf of yourself 
and the other members of the late Soraalee Expedition, for 
losses sustained by you and them. 

" 2. In reply, I am desired to inform you, that under the 
H.*in« r^«rd to the conduct of the pinion, opinion copied in the margin, 

Hit Lord»hli> cannot think that the officer* who pxnrnftRPil Kv iht* 1at<» flrw_ 
compo.«lith«»ean f ju.t claim* oo the Govern- CXprCSSCU Dy ine laiC KjO- 

n: C .,t for their ,*,.,n.i io««. vernor-Gcneral of India, the 

Right Honourable the Governor in Council cannot accede to 
the application now preferred. 

" I have, &c, 
" (Signed) H. L. Anderson, 

44 Secretary to Government." 



KND OF FIRST CORRESPONDENCE. 



SECOND CORRESPONDENCE. 

1. 

•« India Office, E. C, Sth November, 1859. 

" Sir, — I am directed by the Secretary of State for India 
in Council to forward for your information, copy of a letter ad- 
dressed by Captain Rigby, her Majesty's Consul and agent at 
Zanzibar, to the Government of Bombay, respecting the non-pay- 
ment of certain persons hired by you to accompany the Expedition 
under your command into Equatorial Africa, and to request 
that you will furnish me with any observations which you may 
have to make upon the statements contained in that letter. 

" Sir Charles Wood especially desires to be informed why 
you took no steps to bring the services of the men who accom- 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX II. 431 

panied you, and your obligations to them, to the notice of the 
Bombay Government 

« I am, Sir, 

" Your obedient servant, 
" (Signed) T. Cosmo Melville. 

** Captain R. Burton." 



2. 

"No. 70 of 1859. 
" Political Department. 

From Captain C. P. Rig BY, her Majesty's Consul and British 
agent, Zanzibar, to H. L. Andekson, Esquire, Secretary to 
Government, Bombay. 

" Zanzibar. July 15th, 1859. 

" Sir, — I have the honour to report, for the information of 
the Right Honourable the Governor in Council, the following 
circumstances connected with the late East African Expedition 
under the command of Captain Burton. 

"2. Upon the return of Captain Burton to Zanzibar in 
March last, from the interior of Africa, he stated that, from 
the funds supplied him by the Royal Geographical Society for 
the expenses of the Expedition, he had only a sufficient sum left 
to defray the passage of himself and Captain Speke to England, 
and in consequence the persons who accompanied the Expe- 
dition from here, viz. : the Kafila Bashi, the Belooch Sepoys, 
and the porters, received nothing whatever from him on their 
return. 

*' 3. On quitting Zanzibar for the interior of Africa, the 
expedition was accompanied by a party of Belooch soldiers, 
consisting of a Jemadar and twelve armed men. I understand 
they were promised a monthly salary of five dollars each ; they 
remained with the Expedition for twenty months, and as 
they received nothing from Captain Burton beyond a few dol- 
lars each before starting, his highness the Sultan has generously 
distributed amongst them the sum of (2300) two thousand three 
hundred dollars. 

•* 4. The head clerk of the Custom House here, a Banian, 
by name Ramjee, procured ten men, who accompanied the Ex- 
pedition as porters; they were promised five dollars each per 
mensem, and received pay for six months, viz. : thirty dollars 
each before starting for the interior. They were absent for 
twenty months, during three of which the Banian Ramjee states 



¦ 



Digitized by Google 



^62 THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 

that they did not accompany the Expedition. He now claims 
eleven months pay for each of these men, as they have not been 
paid anything beyond the advance before starting. 

" 5. The head clerk also states that after the Expedition left 
Zanzibar, he sent two men to Captain Burton with supplies, 
one of whom was absent with the Expedition seventeen months, 
and received nothing whatever; the other, he states, was absent 
fifteen months, and received six months' pay, the pay for the 
remaining nine months being still due to him. Thus his claim 
amounts to the following sums: — 

'J en men for eleven months, at five dollars per man, per month, 550 Dollars. 
One man for seventeen „ „ „ „ 85 M 

One „ nine „ „ „ „ 45 „ 

Total dollars - - C80 

" 6. These men were slaves, belonging to 'deewans,' or petty 
chiefs, on the opposite mainland. They travel far into the interior 
to collect and carry down ivory to the coast, and arc absent fre- 
quently for the space of two or three years. When hired out, 
the pay they receive is equally divided between the slave and 
the master. Captain Spekc informs me, that when these men 
were hired, it was agreed that one-half of their hire should l»c 
paid to the men, and the other half to Ramjee on account of 
their owners. When Ramjee asked Captain Burton for their 
pay, on his return here, he declined to give him anything, 
saying that they had received thirty dollars each on starting, 
and that he could have bought them for a less sum. 

" 7. The Kafila Boshi, or chief Arab, who accompanied the 
Expedition, by name Said bin Salem, was twenty-two months 
with Captain Burton. He states, that on the first journey to 
Pangany and Usumbara, he received fifty (50) dollars from 
Captain Burton ; and that before starting on the last expe- 
dition, to discover the Great Lake, the late Lieutenant-Colonel 
Hamcrton presented him with five hundred dollars on behalf of 
Government for the maintenance of his family during his 
absence. He states that he did not stipulate for any monthly 
pay, as Colonel Hamcrton told him, that if he escorted the 
gentlemen to the Great Lake m the interior, and brought them 
in safety back to Zanzibar, he wou'd be handsomely rewarded ; 
and both Captain Speke and Mr. Apothecary Frost inform me 
that Colonel Hamcrton frequently promised Said bin Salem 
that he should receive a thousand dollars and a gold watch if 
the Expedition were successful. 

"8. As it appeared to me that Colonel Hamerton had received 
no authority from Government to defray any part of the 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX II. 



43;1 



expenses of this Expedition, and probably made these promises 
thinking that if the exploration of the unknown interior were 
successful a great national object would be attained, and that 
the chief man who conducted the Expedition would be liberally 
rewarded, and as Captain Burton had been furnished with 
funds to defray the expenses, I told him that I did not feel 
authorised to make any payment without the previous sanction 
of Government, and Said bin Salem has therefore received 
nothing whatever since his return. 

" 9. Said Bin Salem also states, that on the return of the 
Expedition from Lake Tanganyika, (70) seventy natives of the 
country were engaged as porters, and accompanied the Expe- 
dition for three months ; and that on arriving at a place called 
' Kootoo,' a few days' journey from the sea-coast, Captain Burton 
wished them to diverge from the correct route to the coast 
opposite Zanzibar, to accompany him south to Keelwa; but 
tlicy refused to do so, saying that none of their people ever 
dared to venture to Keelwa ; that the chief slave-trade on the 
east coast is carried on. No doubt their fears were well 
grounded. These men received nothing in payment for their 
three months' journey, and, as no white man had ever pene- 
trated into their country previously, I fear that any future 
traveller will meet with much inconvenience in consequence of 
these poor people not having been paid. 

" 10. As 1 considered that my duty connected with the late 
Expedition was limited to affording it all the aid and support in 
my power, I have felt very reluctant to interfere with anything 
connected with the non-payment of these men ; but Said bin 
Salem and Ramjee having appealed to me, and Captain Speke, 
since his departure from Zanzibar, having written me two 
private letters, pointing out so forcibly the claims of these men, 
the hardships they endured, and the fidelity and perseverance 
they showed, conducting them safely through unexplored 
countries, and stating also that the agreements with them were 
entered into at the British Consulate, and that they considered 
they were serving the British Government, that I deem it my 
duty to bring their claims to the notice of Government ; for I 
feel that if these men remain unpaid, after all they have 
endured in the service of British officers, our name for good 
faith in these countries will suffer, and that any future travel- 
lers wishing to further explore the interesting countries of the 
interior will find no persons willing to accompany them from 
Zanzibar, or the opposite mainland. 

"11. As there was no British agent at Zanzibar for thirteen 
months after the death of Colonel Hamerton, the Expedition, 

VOL. II. F F 



Digitized by Google 



4;w 



THE L.\KE RECIOXS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



was entirely dependent on Luddah Damha, the Custom- 
master here, for money and supplies. He advanced considerable 
sums of money without any security, forwarded all requisite 
supplies', and, Captain Speke says, afforded the Expedition 
every assistance, in the most handsome manner. Should 
Government, therefore, be pleased to present him with a shawl, 
or some small mark of satisfaction, I am confident he is fully 
deserving of it, and it would gratify a very worthy man to find 
that his assistance to the Expedition is acknowledged. 

" I have, &c, 
"(Signed) C. P. Rigbt, Captain, 

" H. M.'s Consul and British Agent, Zanzibar." 



3. 

" East India United Service Club, St. James's Square, 

11th November, 1850. 

"Sir, — I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of 
vour official letter, dated the 8th of November, 1859, forward- 
ing for my information copy of a letter, addressed by Captain 
Rigby, Her Majesty's consul and ap;ent at Zanzibar, to the 
Government of Bombay, respecting the non-payment of certain 
persons, hired by me to accompany the Expedition under my 
command into Equatorial Africa, and apprising me that Sir C. 
Wood especially desires to be informed, why I took no steps to 
bring the services of the men who accompanied me, and my 
obligations to them, to the notice of the Bombay Government. 

" In reply to Sir Charles Wood I have the honour to state 
that, as the men alluded to rendered me no services, and as I 
felt in no way obliged to them, I would not report favourably 
of them. The Kafilah Bashi, the Jemadar, and the Baloch 
wire servants of II. H. Sayyid Majid, in his pay and 
under his command ; they were not hired by me, but by the 
late Lieut.-Col. Hamerton, H.M.'s Consul and H.E.I.C.'s 
agent at Zanzibar, and they marched under the Arab flag. On 
return to Zanzibar, I reported them as undeserving of reward 
to Lieut.-Col. Hamerton's successor, Capt Rigby, and after 
return to England, when my accounts were sent in to the 
Royal Geographical Society, I appended a memorandum, that 
as those persons had deserved no reward, no reward had been 
applied for. 

" Before proceeding to reply to Capt Rigby 's letter, para- 
graph by paragraph, I would briefly premise with the following 
remarks. 



APPENDIX It. 



435 



" Being ordered to report myself to Lieut-CoL Humerton, 
and having been placed under his direction, I admitted his 
friendly interference, and allowed him to apply to H.II. the 
Sultan for a guide and an escort. Lieut-Col. llamerton 
ottered to defray, from public funds, which he understood to 
be at his disposal, certain expenses of the Expedition, and he 
promised, as reward to the guide and escort, sums of money, to 
which, had I been unfettered, I should have objected as exor- 
bitant. But in all cases, the promises made by the late consul 
were purely conditional, depending entirely upon the satis- 
factory conduct of those employed. These facts are wholly 
omitted in Capt. Rigby's reports. 

" 2. Capt. Rigby appears to mean that the Kafila Bashi, the 
Baloch sepoys, and the porters received nothing whatever on 
my return to Zanzibar, in March last, from the interior of 
Africa, because the funds supplied to me by the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society for the Expenditure of the Expedition, had 
been exhausted. Besides the sum of (1000/.) one thousand 
pounds, granted by the Foreign Office. I had expended from 
private resources nearly (1400/.) fourteen hundred pounds, and 
I was ready to expend more had the expenditure been called for. 
But, though prepared on these occasions to reward liberally for 
good service, I cannot see the necessity, or rather I see the 
unadvisability of offering a premium to notorious misconduct. 
This was fully explained by me to Capt Rigby on my return 
to Zanzibar. 

"3. Capt Rigby 'understands 1 that the party of Baloch 
sepoys, consisting of a Jemadar and twelve armed men, were 
promised a monthly salary of 5 dollars each. This was not the 
case. Lieut-Col. llamerton advanced to the Jemadar 25, and 
to each sepoy 20 dollars for an outfit; he agreed that I should 
provide them with daily rations, and he promised them an 
ample reward from the public funds in case of good behaviour. 
These men deserved nothing ; I ignore their ' fidelity ' and 
' perseverance,' and I assert that if I passed safely through an 
unexplored country, it was in no wise by their efforts. On 
hearing of Lieut. -Col. Hamcrton's death, they mutinied in 
a body. At the Tanganyika Lake they refused to escort mc 
during the period of navigation, a month of danger and diffi- 
culty. When Capt Speke proposed to explore the Nyanza 
Lake, they would not march without a present of a hundred 
dollars' worth of cloth. On every possible occasion they cla- 
moured for * Bakshish,' which, under pain of endangering 
the success of the Expedition, could not always be withheld. 
They were often warned by mc that they were forfeiting all 

F F 2 



Digitized by Google 



43G 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



hopes of a future reward, and, indeed, they ended by thinking 
bo themselves. They returned to Zanzibar with a number of 
slaves*, purchased by them with money procured from the Ex- 
pedition. I would not present either guide or escort to the 
consul ; but I did not think it my duty to oppose a large 
reward, said to be 2,300 dollars, given to them by H.H. the 
Sultan, and I reported his liberality and other acts of kindness 
to the Bombay Government on my arrival at Aden. This fact 
will, I trust, exonerate me from any charge of wishing to 
suppress my obligations. 

" 4. The Banyan Ramji, head clerk of the Custom House, did 
not, as is stated by Capt. Rigby, procure me (10) ten men 
who accompanied the Expedition as porters ; nor were these 
men, as is asserted, (in par. 6), « Slaves belonging to deewans 
or petty chiefs on the opposite mainland.' It is a notorious fact 
that these men were private slaves, belonging to the Banyan 
Ramjee, who hired them to me direct, and received from me as 
their pay, for six months, thirty dollars each ; a sum for which, 
as I told him, he might have bought them in the bazaar. At 
the end of six months I was obliged to dismiss these slaves, 
who, as is usually the case with the slaves of Indian subjects 
at Zanzibar, were mutinous in the extreme. At the same time 
I supplied them with cloth, to enable them to rejoin their 
patron. On my return from the Tanganyika Lake, they 
requested leave to accompany me back to Zanzibar, which 
1 permitted, with the express warning that they were not to 
consider themselves re-engaged. The Banyan, their proprietor, 
had, in fact, sent them on a trading trip into the interior under 
my escort, and I found them the most troublesome of the party. 
When Ramji applied for additional pay, after my return to 
Zanzibar, I told him that I had engaged them for six months ; 
that I had dismissed them at the end of six monihs, as was left 
optional to me ; and that he had already received an unusual 
sum for their services. This conversation appears in a distorted 
form and improperly represented in the concluding sentence of 
Capt. Rigby's 6th paragraph. 

"5 and 6. With respect to the two men sent on with sup- 
plies after the Expedition had left Zanzibar, they were not 
paid, on account of the prodigious disappearance of the goods 
intrusted to their charge, as I am prepared to prove from the 
original journals in my possession. They were dismissed with 
their comrades, and never afterwards, to the best of my remem- 
brance, did a day's work. 

*' 7 and 8. The Kafilah Bashi received from me for the first jour- 
ney to Usumbara (50) fifty dollars. Before my departure in the 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX II. 



437 



second Expedition he was presented by Lieut Colonel Hamerton 
with (500) five hundred dollars, almost double what he had 
expected. He was also promised, in case of good conduct, a gold 
watch, and an ample reward, which, however, was to be left to 
the discretion of his employers. I could not recommend him 
through Captain Rigby to the Government for remuneration. 
His only object seemed to be that of wasting our resources and 
of collecting slaves in return for the heavy presents made to the 
native chiefs by the Expedition, and the consequence of his 
carelessness or dishonesty was, that the expenditure on the 
whole march, until we had learnt sufficient to supervise him, 
was inordinate. When the Kafilah Bashi at last refused to 
accompany Captain Speke to the Nyanza Lake, he was warned 
that he also was forfeiting all claim to future reward, and when 
I mentioned this circumstance to Captain Rigby at Zanzibar, he 
then agreed with me that the 500 dollars originally advanced 
were sufficient. 

" 9. With regard to the statement of Said bin Salim concerning 
the non-payment of the seventy-three porters, I have to remark 
that it was mainly owing to his own fault The men did not refuse 
to accompany me because I wished to diverge from the " correct 
route," nor was I so unreasonable as to expect them to venture 
into the jaws of the slave trade. Several caravans that had 
accompanied us on the down-march, as well as the porters 
attached to the Expedition, were persuaded by the slaves of 
Ramjee (because Zanzibar was a nearer way to their homes) not 
to make Kilwa. The pretext of the porters was simply that 
they would be obliged to march back for three days. An extra 
remuneration was offered to them, they refused it, and left in a 
body. Shortly before their departure Captain Speke proposed 
to pay them for their services, but being convinced that they 
might be prevented from desertion, 1 did not judge advisable by 
paying them to do what would be virtually dismissing them. 
After they had proceeded a few miles, Said bin Salim was sent 
to recall them, on conditions which they would have accepted ; 
he delayed, lost time, and ended by declaring that he could not 
travel without his dinner. Another party was instantly sent ; 
they also loitered on the way, and thus the porters reached the 
coast and dispersed. Before their departure I rewarded the 
Kirangozi, or chief man of the caravan, who had behaved well in 
exhorting his followers to remain with us. I was delayed in a 
most unhealthy region for the arrival of some down porters, 
who consented to carry our goods to the coast ; and to prove to 
them that money was not my object, I paid the newly-engaged 
gang an if they had marched the whole way. Their willingness 

rr3 



Digitized by Google 



438 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



to accompany mc is the best proof that I had not lost the confi- 
dence of the people. Finally, on arrival at the coast, I inquired 
concerning those porters who had deserted us, and was informed 
by the Diwan and headman of the village, that th?y had 
returned to their homes in the interior, after a stay of a few days 
on the seaboard. This was a regrettable occurrence, but such 
events are common on the slave-path in Eastern Africa, and 
the established custom of the Arabs and other merchants, 
whom I had consulted upon the subject before leaving the 
interior, is, not to encourage desertion by paying part of the 
hire, or by settling for porterage before arriving at the coast?. 
Of the seven gangs of porters engaged on this journey, only one, 
an unusually small proportion, left me without being fully 
satisfied. 

" 10. That Said bin Salim, and Ramji, the Banyan, should 
have appealed to Captain Rigby, according to the fashion of 
Orientals, after my departure from Zanzibar, for claims which 
they should have advanced when I refused to admit them, I am 
not astonished. But I must express my extreme surprise that 
Captain Speke should have written two private letters, forcibly 
pointing out the claims of these men to Captain Rigby, without 
having communicated the circumstance in any way to me, the 
chief of the Expedition. I have been in continued correspon- 
dence with that officer since my departure from Zanzibar, and 
until this moment I have been impressed with the conviction 
that Captain Speke's opinion as to the claims of the guide and 
escort above alluded to was idenlieal with my own. 

" 11. With respect to the last paragraph of Captain Rigby'a 
letter, proposing that a shawl or some small mark of satis- 
faction should be presented by Government to Ladha Damha, 
the custom-master at Zanzibar, for his assistance to the Expedi- 
tion, I distinctly deny the gratuitous assertions that I was en- 
tirely dependent on him for money and supplies; that he advanced 
considerable sums of money without any security ; that he 
forwarded all requisite supplies, or, as Captain Speke affirms, 
that he afforded the Expedition every assistance in the most 
handsome manner. Before quitting Zanzibar for inner Africa, 
I settled all accounts with him, and left a small balance in his 
hands, and I gave, for all subsequent, supplies, an order upon 
Messrs. Forbes, my agents in Bombay. He, like the other 
Hindus at Zanzibar, utterly neglected "me after the death of 
Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton ; and Captain Rigby has probably 
seen some of the letters of complaint which were sent by 
mc from the interior. In fact, my principal merit in having 
conducted the Expedition to a successful issue is in having con- 



Digitized by Google 



APPKXDIX II. 



tended against the utter neglect of the Hindus at Zanzibar 
(who had promised to Lieut-Colonel Hamerton, in return 
for his many good offices, their interest and assistance), and 
against the carelessness and dishonesty, the mutinous spirit and 
the active opposition of the guide and escort. 

" I admit that I was careful that these men should suffer for 
their misconduct. On the other hand, I was equally deter- 
mined that those who did their duty should be adequately 
rewarded, — a fact which nowhere appears in Captain Rigby's 
letter. The Portuguese servants, the negro-gun carriers, the 
several African gangs of porters, with their leaders, and all 
other claimants, were fully satisfied. The bills drawn in the 
interior, from the Arab merchants, were duly paid at Zanzibar, 
and on departure I left orders that it' anything had been ne- 
glected it should be forwarded to me in Europe. I regret that 
Captain Rigby, without thoroughly ascertaining the merits of 
the case (which he evidently has not done), should not have 
permitted me to record any remarks which I might wish to 
offer, before making it a matter of appeal to the Bombay 
Government. 

" Finally, I venture to hope that Captain Rigby has for- 
warded the complaints of those who have appealed to him with- 
out endorsing their validity ; and I trust that these observations 
upon the statements contained in his letter may prove that 
these statements were based upon no foundation of fact. 

" I am, Sir, 

" Your obedient Servant, 

«' R. F. Burton, 

" Bombay Army." 



4. 

44 India Office, E. C, 14th January, 18C0. 

" Sir, — I am directed by the Secretary of State for India 
in council, to inform you that, having taken into consideration 
the explanations afforded by you in your letter of the 11th 
November, together with the information on the same subject 
furnished by Captain Speke, he is of opinion that it was 
your duty, knowing, as you did, that demands for wages, on 
the part of certain Bclochs and others who accompanied you 
into Equatorial Africa, existed against you, not to have left 
Zanzibar without bringing these claims before the consul there, 
with a view to their being adjudicated on their own merits, the 
more especially as the men had been originally engaged through 



Digitized by Google 



4iO 



THE LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA. 



the intervention or the inBuence of the British authorities, 
whom, therefore, it was your duty to satisfy before leaving the 
country. Had this course been followed, the character of the 
British Government would not have suffered, and the adjust- 
ment of the dispute would, in all probability, have been effected 
at a comparatively small outlay. 

" Your letter, and that of Captain Speke, will be forwarded 
to the Government of Bombay, with whom it will rest to deter- 
mine whether you shall be held pecuniarily responsible for the 
amount which has been paid in liquidation of the claims against 
you. 

" I am, Sir, 
" Your obedient Servant, 
"(Signed) J. Cosmo Melvill." 



5. 

"Sir, — I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of 
your official letter of the 14th January, 1860. 

" In reply, I have the honour to observe that, not having 
been favoured with a copy of the information on the same sub- 
ject furnished to you by Captain Speke, I am not in a position to 
understand on what grounds the Secretary of State for India in 
council should have arrived at so unexpected a decision as re- 
gards the alleged non-payment of certain claims made by certain 
persons sent with me into the African interior. 

" I have the honour to observe that I did not know that 
demands for wages existed against me on the part of those 
persons, and that I believed I had satisfactorily explained the 
circumstances of their dismissal without payment in my official 
letter of the 11th November, 1859. 

" Although impaired health and its consequences prevented 
me from proceeding iu an official form to the adjudication of the 
supposed claims in the presence of the consular authority, I 
represented the whole question to Captain Rigby, who, had he 
then — at that time — deemed it his duty to interfere, might have 
insisted upon adjudicating the affair with me, or with Captain 
Speke, before we left Zanzibar. 

" I have the honour to remark that the character of the Brit- 
ish Government has not, and cannot (in my humble opinion) 
have suffered in any way by my withholding a purely condi- 
tional reward when forfeited by gross neglect and misconduct; 
and I venture to suggest that by encouraging such abuses seri- 
ous obstacles will be thrown in the way of future exploration, 



Digitized by Google 



APPENDIX II. 



441 



and that the liberality of the British Government will be more 
esteemed by the native than its character for sound sense. 

" In conclusion, I venture to express my surprise, that nil my 
labours and long services in the cause of African Exploration 
should have won for me no other reward than the prospect of 
being mulcted in a pecuniary liability incurred by my late 
lamented friend, Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton, and settled without 
reference to me by his successor, Captain Rigby. 

" I have the honour, &c. &c, 
"Richd. F. Burton, 

44 Captain, Bom I ay Army." 

" The Under Secretary of State for India." 



Digitized by Google 



INDEX. 



A bad bin Sulayman, rest of the party at the 

house of, at Knieh, L 323. 
Abdullah, the Baloch, sketch of him, L 

Abdullah bin Nasib, of Zanzibar, his kind- 
ness, L itlX 

Abdullah bin Jumah, and his flying cara- 
van, L 315. 

Abdullah bin Salitn of Kaseh, his authority 

there, L 329. 
Abdullah, son of Musa Mzuri, ii. 225. 22*',. 
Ablactation, period of, in East Africa, L 

112. 

Abrus precatorius used as an ornament in 

Karagwah, ii. 181. 
Adansoitia digitata, or monkey-bread of East 

Africa, peculiarity of, L 42. 
Africa, Central, great depression of, L 409 ; 

ii. 3. 

African proverlw, L 1S1. 
Africans a weak -brained people, L 33, 
Africans, East, their character and religion, 
ii. 324. 

Albinos frequency of, amongst the Waza- 
ramo tribes i- Description of them, 

109. 

Ainayr bin Said el Shaksi, calls on Capt 
Burton, ii. QQH. His adventures 22fL 

Ammunition, danger of, in African travel- 
ling, L 

Androgyne, the, ii. 159. 

Animals, wild, of Uzaramo. i 63. Of Dut*- 
humi, S2. Of Zungomero, 25* Of the 
Mrima, 103, 104- Of K'hutu, 1£Q. Of 
the Usagara mountains 162. Of the 
plains beyond the Rufuta, L&L 133. Of 
Ugogi, 242. Of the road to Ugogo, 247. 
In Ugogo, POO. Of Unyamwezi, ii. 15. 
Of L'jiji, fiQ. 

Antelopes in the Doab of the Mgeta river, 
L 8_L In the Rufuta plains, L&L Of 
East Africa, 20^. 2£2 On the Mgunda 
Mk'bali, Of Ugogo, L 300. 



Ant-hills of East Africa, L 2Q2. 203. In 
Unyamwezi, ii. 12. Clay of, chewed in 
Unyamwezi, 28. 

Anthropophagi of Murivumba, ii. 1 14. 

Ants in the Doab of the Mgeta river, L 32. 
Red, of the banks of rivers in East Africa, 
L&fL Maji m'oto, or hot water " ants, 
167. Near the Marenga Mk'hali river, 
201. Account of them, 202. Annoy- 
ance of, at K'hokTio, 276. Of Rubu- 
ga, 312. Of East Afiica, 31L Of 
Unyamwezi, ii. L2. Of Ujiji, M* 

Apples' wood, at Mb'hali, L 401- 

Arab caravans, description of, in East Africa, 
L 342. 

Arab proverbs L 50± Mx 133, 135. 

Arabs of the East coast of Africa, L 30. 
The half-castes described, 32. Those 
settled in Unyanycmhe, 323. History 
and description of their settlements 327. 
Tents of, on their march. 353. 

Arachis Hypogrea, as an article of food, i. 1 98. 

Arak tree in Ugogo, L 300. 

Archery in East A fries ii. 301 ¦ 

Armanika, Sultan of Karagwah, account of, 
ii. 1&3. His government, 183. 184. Be- 
sieged by bis brother, ii. 224. 

Arms of the Waxaramo, L 1 10 Of the 
Wadoe, 194. Of the Baloch merce- 
naries 133. Of the «• Sons of Ramji," 
140. Required for the expedition, 1 5'*?. 
Of the Wasagara tribe, 199^ 332. Of the 
Wahehe, 240. Of the Wagogo, 304. 
Of the Wahamba, 312. Of the porters 
of caravans, 350. Of the Wakimbii, 
ii. 20. Of the Wanzamwezi, 30. Of 
the Wajiji, fifi. Of the Wavinzs 25. 
Of the Watuta, 1L Of the people of 
Karagwah, 132. 

Army of Uganda, ii. 189. 

Artfimise frigate. L L 

Atmosphere, brilliancy of the, in Ugogo, 
L 222. 



444 



INDEX. 



Asclepias in tlio Lfsagara mountains, L 

1 6.5. 

A slimed bin Nuuman, the Wajhayn or 

" two faces," L 5L 
Assegais of the Wasagara tribe, L 232. 

Of die Wanyamwezi, ii. 22. Of East 

Africa generally, St ) 1 . 
Ass, the African, described, L 8JL Those 

of the expedition, 151. Loss of, LBQ. 

Fresh asses purchased from a down cara- 

van, 20JL 

Asthma, or lik el nafa*, remedy in East 

Africa for, L 96. 
Atheism, aboriginal, ii. 3 12. 

Bakera, village of, L 92. 

Baksiishish, in the East, ii. 84, The 
propriety of rewarding bad conduct, fi5_. 
Influence of, ii. 172. 

Balochs, the, of Zanzibar, described, L 1 4. 
Their knavery, fLS. Their behaviour on 
the march, 1 27. Sketch of their charac- 
ter, L32. Their quarrels with the " Sons 
of Ramji," 163. Their desertion and 
return, 173. Their penitence, 177. 
Their character, 177. 178. Their dis- 
content and complaints about food, 212, 
221. A nd proposed desertion, 273. 27 8. 
Their bile cooled, '274. Their injury to 
the expedition, 319. Their breakfast on 
the march, 345. Their manoeuvres at 
Kazeh, 376". Their desertion, ii. 111- 
Influenced by bakhshish, 217. Their 
quarrel with the porters, 2 .¦>:?. Doing 
14 Zam," ii. 276. Sent home, 277. 

liana Dirunga, village of, L 71. 

1 5a nadir, Burr el, or harbour-land, geogra- 
phy of, L 2£L 

Bang we, islet of, in Lake Tanganyika, ii. 
53. Described 99. 

Banyans, the, of the East Coast of Africa, 
I 12. 

Baobab Tree of East Africa, L 47. 

Barghash, Say y id, of Zanzibar, a state 
prisoner at Bombay, L. 3L 

Barghumi, the, of East Africa, ii. 2 9 4. 

Bark cloth, price of, at Uvira, ii. 121. 

Basket making in East Africa, ii. 316. 

Basts of East Africa, ii. 317. 

Battle-axes of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 23. 
Of the East Africans, 307. 

Bazar-gup, or tittle-tattle in the East, L 12. 

Bdellium Tree, or Mukl, of LTgogo, i. 299. 
Uyes of, among the W«gogo, 3QO. 

Beads, mode of carrying, in the expe- 
dition, u 145. Account of African 
beads of commerce, 146. Currency at 
Msene, 398. Those most highly valued 
in Ljiji, ii. 7J2, Bead trade of Zanzibar, 
39P. 



Bedding required for the expedition, L 154. 
Beds and bedding of the East Africans, L 

37Q. 

Beef, roast, and plum pudding at Msene, 
L 400. 

Bee-hives, seen for the first time at 
Marenga Mkliali, L 2IXL Their shape, 
20Q. Of Rubuga, 317. 

Beer in East Africa, iL 285. Mode of 
making it, iihlL 

Bees in K'hutu, L L2Q. But no bee- 
hives, 120. Wild, attack the caravan, 
L 176. 248, '.MP. Annoyance of, at 
K'hok'ho, 27JL Of East Africa, ii. 
287. 

Beetles in houses at Ujiji, ii. 9L note. 
One iu the car of Captain Spelt c, 91. 
note. 

Belok, the Baloch, sketch of him, L 135. 

Berard, M. t his kindness, L 22. 

Berberah, disaster at, referred to, L GS. 

Bhang plant, the, in Zung. mero, i. 9_5_, 
Smoked throughout East Africa, 2£, 
Effects produced by, 9JL Used iu Ujiji, 
ii. 70. 

Billhooks carried by the Wasagara tribe, L 
23JL 

Birds, mode of catching them, L 1 00. 
Scarcity of, in East Africa, 27Q. Of 
Cgogo, 3JXL Period of nidification and 
incubation of, ii. 1JL Of Unyamwezi, 
1& Of Ujiji. &L 

Births and deaths amongst the Wararamo, 
customs at, L 115, 1 16, 118. 119. 

Bivouac, a pleasant, L 245. 

Black Magic. See Uchawi. 

Blackmail of the Waxaramo, L 70, 1 1 3. 
Of the Wak'hutu, Uh Of the Wax*. 
gura, 125. At Ugogo, 252. Account 
of the blackmail of East Africa, 253. 
At Kirufuru, 264. At Kanyenje, 2fL5* 
In K'hok'ho, 224* At Mdaburu, 279. 
At Wanyika, 407. At Ubwari island, 
ii. LLi " 

Blood of cattle, drunk in East Africa, ii. 282. 
Boats of the Tanganyika Lake, described, 
it 9jL 

Boatmen of the Tanganyika T,ake, ii. 10!. 
Bomani, 44 the stockade," village of, L 47. 

Halt at, 42. Vegetation of, 47, 48. 

Departure from, 51. 
Bombax, or silk cotton tree, of Czaramo, 

L SO, 

Bonye fiumara, accident to a caravan in the, 

ii. 270. 

Books required for the expedition, L 155. 
Borassus flabeUiformis, or Palmyra tree, in 
the plains, L 180. Toddy drawn from, 

181. 

Bos Cafler, or Mbogo, in the plains of East 



Bd by Googl 



INDEX. 



44.-> 



Africa, L 181. Described, 1 R 1 - In 
Ugogo, 3Q0. 

Botanical collection stolen, L 319. Diffi- 
culty of taking care of the collection on 
the upward march, 320. Destroyed by 
damp at Ujiji, ii. 81. 

Boulders of granite on the Mgunda Mk'- 
hali, L 284. Picturesque effects of the, 
285. 2S1L 

Bows and arrows of the Wagogo, L 504. 

Of the Wanyamwczi, ii. 22. Of the East 

Africans, 3QI. Poisoned arrows, 305. 
Brab tree, or Ukhindu, of the Mrima, L 48. 
Breakfast in the caravan described, L 345. 

An Arab's, at Kazeh, iL lfi7. 
BufT.iloes on the road to Ugogo, L 247. In 

Unyamwezi, ii. L5. On the Rusugi 

river, ii. 4Q. 
Bumhumu, Sultan, of the Wahehe, L 239. 
Burial ceremonies of the Wanyamwezi, 

ii. 2i 

Burkene, route to, ii. 179. 

Burton, Captain, quits Zanzibar Island, L L 

The personnel and materiel of |he ex- 
pedition, L 3, 10, 1_L 

Smallness of the grant allowed by 
government, L 4j note. 

The author's proposal to the Royal 
Geographical Society, L 5. 

Anchors off Wale Puint, L 8. 

His difficulties, L L2. 

His MS. lost, L 2L 

Melancholy parting with Col. Hamcr- 
ton, L 22, 

Lands at Kaole, L 2JL 

Melancholy reflections, i. 24. 

Transit of the valley of the Kingani 
and the Mgeta rivers, L iL 

The first departure, L 4A 4fL 

T«nts pitched at Bomani, L 5_L 

Delay the second, L 42. 

Departure from Bomani, L 51. 

Arrives at the village of Mkwaju la 
Mvuani, L 5JL 

The third departure, L5S. 

Halt at Nzasa, in Uzaramo, L 5A± 

Start again, L 52* 

First dangerous station, L 52. 

Second one, L S3* 

Adventure at Makutaniro, L 70. 

Author attacked by fever, L 7_L 

Third dangerous station, L 7.3. 

Encamps at Madege Madogo, L 79. 

And at Kidonda, L 79. 

Loses his elephant-gun, L 8£L 

Arrives at a place of safety, L 81. 

Enters K'hutu, L 82. 

lias a hammam, L 82. 

Ttioroughly prostrated, L 84. 

His troubles, L 86. 



Burton, Captain — continued. 

Prepares a report for the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society, L S2. 
Advances from Dut'humi, L 91 ¦ 
Halts at Zungomero, i. 127. 
Iseaves Zungomero, L 158. 
Arrives at Mzizi Mdogo, L 161. 
Recovery of health at, L 161. 
leaves Mzizi Mdogo, L 165. 
Halts at Cha K'henge, L 167. 
Desertion of the Baloch, L LIS. 
Their return, L 174. 
Halts at Muhama, L 178. 
Again attacked by fever, L 179. 
Resumes the march, L IfiO. 
Contrasts in the scenery, L 184. 
Fords the Mukondokwa river, i. 188. 
Reaches Kadetamare, L 189. 
Loss of instruments, L 189. 
Halts at Muinyi, L 193.- 
Resumes the j urney, L 194. 
Halts at Ndabi, L 19fi. 
Resumes the march and rests at Ru- 

muma, L 198. 
Abundance of its supplies, L 198. 
Reaches Marenga Mk'hali, L 203. 
Approaches the bandit Wahumba, L 
203. 

leaves Marenga Mk'hali, L 204. 
Halts at the basin of Inenge, i. 208. 
Wholesome food obtained there, L 208. 
Exchange of civilities with a down 

caravan, L 9Q8. 
Painful ascent of the Rubcho, or Windy 

Pass, L 

Halt at the Great Rubeho, L 215. 
Ascent of the Little Rubeho, L I 5 
Descent of the counterslope of the 

Usagara mountains, L 219. 
First view of the Ugogo mountains, 

L 22IL 

Halts at the third Rubeho, L 22L 

Marches on the banks of the Dungo- 
maro, L 222. 

Reaches the plains of Ugogo, L 223 

Losses during the descent, L 224. 

Halts at Ugogi, L 24L 

Engages the services of fifteen Wan- 
yamwezi porters, L 244. 

Leaves Ugogi, L 244. 

Tlie caravan dislodged by wild bees, 
L 248. 

Loses a valuable portmanteau, L 219. 
Halts on the road for the night, u 250. 
Leaves the jungle-kraal, L 250. 
Sights the Ziwa, or Pond, L 251. 
Provisions obtained there, L 255. 
Recovery of the lost portmanteau, 
L 257. 

Joins another up-caravan, L 257, '238. 



44<i 



INDEX. 



Burton, Captain — continue J. 
Enters Ugogo, L 259. 
Astonishment of the Wagogo, L 26JL 
Delayed at Kifukuru for blackmail, 

L 2fi4. 
Leaves Kifukuru, L 2fL5. 
Accident in the jungle, L Vf' r >- 
Interview with Magomba, sultan of 

K^myenye, L 266. 
Hurried march from Kanyenye, i. 2*1. 
Arrives at Usek'he and K'hok'ho.L 'JT:'. 
Difficulties of blackmail at K*hok'ho, 

L '.'74. 

Departs from K'hok'ho, L 225. 
Desertion of fifteen porters, L 275. 
Trving march in the Mdaburu jungle, 

L 222, 
Reaches Uyanzi, L 279. 
Traverses the Fiery Field, L 2S3. 
Arrives at the Mabunguru fiumara, L 

285. 

Ivosses on the march, L 285. 
Heaehes Jiwe la Mkoa, L 2EJL 2M- 
And Kirurumo and Jiweni, L 2fl*L 
Marches to Mgono T*hembo, L 290. 
Arrives at the Tura Nullah, L 291. 
And at the village of Tura, the frontier 

of Unyamwesi, L 292. 3 1 3. 
Fioceeds into Unyamwesi, L 3_LL 
Halts at the Kwale nullah, L 31 5. 
Visited by Abdullah bin Jumah and 

his flying caravan, L 3 1 5. 
And by Sultan Maura, L 316. 
Reaches Ukona, L 318. 
leaves Ukona and halts at Kigwa or 

M kigwa, L 319. 
Enters the dangerous Kigwa forest, L 

Loss of papers there, L 3.12. 

Reaches the rice-lands of the Unyam- 
yembe district, L S_2_L 

Enters Kazeh in grand style, L 322. 

Hospitality of the Arabs there, L 12JL 

Difficulties of the preparations for re- 
commencing the journey, L 377. 

Sickness of the servants, L 379. 

Author attacked by fever, L 3BO. 

Leaves Kazeh and proceeds to Zimbili, 
L 38fi. 

Proceeds and halts at Yombo, L 386. 
387. 

Leaves Yombo and reaches Pano and 

Mfuto, L liSJL 
Halts at Irora, L 389. 
Marches to Wilyankuru, L 3fl£L. 
Hospitality of Salim bin Said, L 391. 
And of Masid ibn Musallam el Wardi, 

at Kirira, L 392. 
Lcuves Kirira, and marches to Mscne, 

L 395. 



Burton, Captain — continutd. 
Delayed there, L 399. 
Marches to the village of Mb'hali, L 
4Q1. 

And to Sengati and the deadly Sorora, 
L 401. 

Deseitions and dismissals at Sorora, L 
402. 

Marches to Kajjanjeri, L 
Detained there by dangerous illness, 
L 403. 

Proceeds and halts at Usagozi, L 4Qfi. 

Some of the party arilicted by ophthal- 
mia, L 40fi. 

Quits Uaagozi,and marches to Masenza, 
L 406. 407. 

Reaches the Mukotimo district, L 407. 

Spends a night at Rukunda, L 4f>7. 

Siglifs the plain of the Malaganui 
river, L 4Q7. 

Halts at Wanyika, L 102. 

Settlement of blackmail at, L 4 ok. 

Resumes the march, L 40s. 

Arrives at the bank of the Malagarazi 
river, L 4(VP. 

Crosses over to Mpete, L 410. 

Marches to Kinawani, iL 35. 

And to Jambeho, ii. 36. 

Fords the Rusugi river, ii. 32. 

Fresh desertions, ii. 38. 

Halts on the Ungwwe river, iL 40. 

First view of the Tanganyika Lake, iL 
12. 

Arrives at Ukaranga, ii. 44. 

And at L'jiji, iL 4JL 

Visits the headman Kannena, ii. 81. 

Incurs his animosity, ii. 82, 84. 

Ill effects of the climate and food v.f 

Ujiji, ii. Bi. 
Captain Speke sent up the I^ake, it. 

82. 

Mode of spending the day at L'jiji, ii. 
82. 

Failure of Capt Speke's expedition, ii. 
90. 

The author prepares for a cruise, ii. QlL 
The voyage, ii. 9_9_. 
Halts and encamps at Kigari, ii. 101. 
Enters the region of UrundL ii. 101. 
Reaches and halts at Wafanya, ii. \0€. 
Sails for the island of Ubwari, iL 1 1 2. 
Anchors there, ii. 1 L3. 
Leaves there and arrives at Murivumba, 
ii. 1_LL 

Reaches the southern frontier of Uvira, 
ii. 1L5. 

Further progress stopped, ii. 1 JJ7, 1 1 o. 

Returns, ii. 191 . 

Storm on the Lake, iL 123. 

Passes the night at Wafanya, ii. 1 *-'3. 



INDEX. 



447 



Burton, Captain — continued. 

A slave accidentally shot there, ii. 124. 
Returns to Kawele, ii. 124. 
Improvement in health, ii. 129. 
The outfit reduced to a minimum, ii. 
130. 

Arrival of supplies, but inadequate, ii. 
132. 

Preparations for the return to Unyan- 

yerabe, ii. LSi. 
The departure, ii. 157. 
The return- march, ii. IfiO. 
Pitches tents at Uyonwa, ii. 161. 
Desertions, ii. 161. 

Returns to the ferry of the Malagarazi, 

ii. RL4. 

Marches hack to Unyanyembe, ii. ICS. 

Halts at Yombo, ii. lfifi. 

Re-enters Kazeh, ii. 1 67. 

Sends his companion on an expedition 

to the north, ii. 17:3. 
His mode of passing time at Kazeh, ii. 

173i lag. 
Preparations for journeying, ii. 2QtL 
Shortness of funds, ii 221. 
Outfit fur the return, ii. 9-.?9. 
Departs from Kazeh, ii. 23L 
Halts at Hanga, ii. 232. 
Leaves Hanga, ii. 24Q. 
Returns through Ugogo, ii. 244. 
The letters with the official " wigging," 

ii. 212. 

Takes the Kiringawana route, ii. 243. 

Halts at a den of thieves, it 252. 

And at Maroro, ii. 255. 

Marches to Kiperepeta, ii. 256. 

Fords the Yovu, ii. 2ifi. 

Halts at Ruhembe rivulet, ii. 26 1 . 

And on the Makata plain, ii. 262. 

Halts at Uziraha, ii. 263. 

Returns to Zungomero, ii. 2fi4. 

Proposes a march to Kilwa, ii. 265. 

Desertion of the porters, ii. 266. 

Engages fresh ones, ii. 267. 

Leaves Zungomero, and resumes the 

march, ii. 216. 
Re-enters Uzaramo, ii. 277- 
And Konduchi, ii. 278. 
Sights the sea, ii. 278. 
Sets out for Kilwa, ii. 372. 
Returns to Zanzibar, ii. 379. 
Leaves Zanzibar for Aden, ii. 384. 
Returns to Europe, ii. 384. 
Putter in East Africa, ii. 28 j. 

Cacti in the Usagara Mountains, L 1 6 5. 

Of Mgunda M' Khali, 2fifi. 
Calabash-tree of East Africa, described, L 

117. In the Usagara mountains, i» 164, 



223. Magnificence of, at Ugogo, 260. 

The only large tree in Ugogo, 299. 
Camp furniture required for the expedi- 
tion, L 152. 
Cannibalism of the Wadoe tribe, L 123. Of 

the people of Murivumba, ii. 1 14. 
Cannabis Indica in Unyamwezi, L 3 IB. 
Canoes built of mvule trees, ii. 1 47. Mode 

of making them, 147. 
Canoes on the Malagarazi river, L 409. 

On the " Ghaut," ILL 
Capparis sodata, verdure of the, in Ugogo, 

L 300- 

Carriage, cost of, in East Africa, ii. 414. 

Caravans of ivory, L LT. Slave caravans, 
1 7, 6JL Mode of collecting a caravan in 
East Africa, 143. Attacked by wild 
bees, 4, 176. And by small-pox, I7 f >. 
In East Africa, description of, 337. 
Porters, 3, i 7 -3 39. Seasons for travel- 
ling, 332. The three kinds of caravan, 

341. That of the Wanyamwezi, 341. 
Those made up by the Arab merchants, 

342. Those of the Wasawahili, &c, 
344. Sketch of a day's march of an 
East African caravan, 344. Mode of 
forming a caravan, 348. Dress of the 
caravan, 349. Ornaments and arms worn 
by the porters, 349. Recreations of the 
march, 35XL Meeting of two caravans, 
35L Halt of a caravan, 35 1 . Lodg- 
ings on the march, 353. Cooking, 355, 
3.16. Greediness of the porters, 356. 
357. Water, 353. Night, 352. Dances 
of the porters, 360. Their caravan, 361. 
362. Rate of caravan travelling, 362. 
Custom respecting caravans in Central 
Africa, ii. 54. Those on the Uruwwa 
route, 148. Accident to a, 270. 

Carissa Carandas, the Corinda bush in Uza- 
ramo, L 6SL 

Carpentering in East Africa, ii. 309. 

Carvings, rude, of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 26. 

Castor plants of East Africa, L 4H. Mode 
of extracting the oil, IS. 

Cats, wild, in Unyamwezi, ii. Li. 

Cattle, horned, of Ujiji, ii. 52. Of Karag- 
wah, 1S1. 

Cattle trade of East Africa, ii. 413. 

Cereals of East Africa, ii. 4 14. 

Ceremoniousness of the Wajiji, ii. fi£L 

Ceremony and politeness, miseries of, in 
the East, L 392. 

Cha K'henge, halt of the party at, L 167. 

Chntnaerops humili«, or Nyara tree, of the 
Mrima, f. 48. 

Chawambi, Sultan of Unyoro, ii. 193. 

Chhaga, ii. 179. 

Chiefs of the Wazaamo, L 1 LL 



448 



i.v hex. 



Chikichi, or palm oil, trade in, at Wafanya, 

ii. 1QL 

Childbirth, ceremonies of, in Unyamwexi 

ii. 23. Twins, 23. 
Children, mode of carrying, in Uxaramo, i. 

1 UL 

Children, Wasagara mode of carrying, L 232. 
Children, mode of carrying amongst the 

Wanyamwexi, ii. 22. 
.Children, education of, in Unyamwexi, ii. 

23, 24. 

Chomwi, or headman, of the Wamrima, L lfL 

His privileges, 16, LZ. 
Chumbi, isle of, L L 

Chunga Mchwa, or ant, of the sweet red 
elay of East Africa, described, L 201. 202. 

Chungo-fundu or siyafu, or pismires of the 
river banks of East Africa, described, L 
186. 

Chj ambo, the locale of the coast Arabs, L 

397. 

Circumcision, not practised by the Waia- 
ramo, L 108. Nor in the Unyamwexi, ii. 

2A 

Clay chewed, when tobacco fails, in Un- 
yamwexi, ii. 2fL 
Climate of — 

Komani, L 4iL 

Dut'humi, L 89. 92. 

East Africa, during the wet season, L 
37'). 

Inengc, L 208. 

Kajjanjcri, ii. 403. 

Karagwah, ii. I HO. 

Kawele, ii. 1 :>'\ 

Kirira, L 394. 

Kuingani, L 44. 

Marenga Mk'hali, L 200. 

Mrima, L 102, 10J. 

Msene, L 4CK). 

Muhama, L 179. 

Mxixi Mdogo, L 161. 

Humuma, L 1 99. 

Sorora, L 401. 

Tanganyika Lake, L 142. 

Ugogo, i. 243. 259. 222. 

Ujiji, ii. 8_L 

Unyamwezi, ii. 8 — 14. 

Usagara, L 22]^ 222. 23L 

Wafanya, ii. 107. 

Zungomero, L 9jL l^ 156, 161^ L63. 
Cloth, mode of carrying, in the expedition, 

L 145. As an article of commerce, 148. 
Clothing required for the expedition, L l.H. 

Of travellers in East Africa, ii. 20L 
Clouds in Unyamwexi, ii. L2. 
Cockroaches in houses in East Africa, L 

37Q. 

Cocoa-nut, use of the, in East Africa, L 3£. 
Cocoa-tree, its limits inland, L L£& 



Coffee, wild, or mwami, of Kara^irah, ii. 

180, 181. 187. 
Commando, pitiable scene presented after 

one, L i Si 
Commerce of the Mrima, L SJL Of Zun- 

gomero, 9_5. Of Uxaramo, 1 19. Of 

Ugogo, 308. Of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 

29. Of the Nyania Lake, 2 15. African, 

'-'-'4. Of Ubena, 220. Of Uvira, ii. 

120. Of East Africa, 387. 
Conversation, specimen of, in East Africa, 

ii. 24JL 244. 
Copal tree, or Msandarusi, of Uxaramo, L 63. 
Copal trade of East Africa, ii. 4Q3. 
Copper in Katata, ii. 148. In East Africa, 

312. 

Cotton in Unyamwezi, L 318- In Ujiji, L 

57. In East Africa, 417. 
Cow hag e on the banks of the Mgeta river, 

L 166. 

Cowries of Karagwah, ii. 185. Of East 
Africa, 4JiL 

Crickets of tlie Usagara mountains L LiLL. 
House, in East Africa, L 3"Q- 

Crocodiles of the Kingani river, L 5fL In 
Unyamwezi, ii. Li. In the Sea of Ujiji, 
6Q. Of the Kuche River, 158. 

Crops of the Mrima, L 102, et teq. 

Cucumbers at Marenga Mk'hali, L 2HL 
Wild, of Unyanyembe, ii. '2*5 

Cultivation in the Mukondokwa hills, L 196, 
197. In the Usagara mountain*. 2u'9. 

Currency of East Africa, stock may be re- 
cruited at Kaxeh, L 334. Of Msene, L 
3 os. Of Ujiji, ii. 13. Of Karagwah. 
1 n. r ,. Of Ubena, 220. Cynhyasnas of 
Ugogo, L 3ihL In Unyamwexi, ii. L5. 

Cynocephalus, the, in Unyamwexi, ii. LL 
The terror of the country, L5. 

Dancing of the Waxaramo women, L 55. 

African, described, 360; ii. 291. 298. 
Darwayash, the Baloch, sketch of him, L 

137. 

" Dflsh," L S3. See Blackmail. 
Datura plant of Zungomero, L Qi Smoked 
in East Africa, 9JL In Unyamwexi, 318. 
Day, an African's mode of passing the, ii. 

Death, African fear of, ii. 331. 
Defences of the Wazaramo, L 1 1 1. 1 17. 
Dege la Mhora, 44 the large jungle bird," 
village of, L 22. Fate of M. Maixan at, 

23. 

Det'hc, or Kidete of East Africa, ii. 223. 
Devil's trees of East Africa, ii. 353. 
Dialects of the Waxaramo, L 107. The 

Wagogo, 3Qfi. The Wahumba, nil. 

The Wanyamwexi, ii. 5. The Wakimbu, 

20. 'Die Wanyamwexi, 3a 



INDEX. 



44!) 



Diseases of tlic mnritimc region of East 
Africa, L 1Q5. Of the people of Usagara, 
233. Of Ugogo, 200. Of caravans in 
East Africa, 342. Of Unyamwezi, ii. 1 1. 
13. 14. Of East Africa, HI 8. Remedies, 
321. Mystical remedies, 352, 353. 

Dishdasheh, El, or turban of the coast Arabs, 
L 32, 

Divorce amongst the Wazaramo, L 1 
Amongst the East Africans generally, ii. 

33:1. 

Drawing materials required for the expedi- 
tion, L 155. 

Dress articles of, of the East Africans, L 
MS. Of the Wamrima, 33,34. Of the 
Wazaramo, 109, Of the Wak'hutu, 120. 
Of the Wasagura, 253, Of the Wahete, 
Of the Wagogo, 305. Of the Wahumba, 
312. Of the Wakulaganza, 406'. Of the 
Wakimbu, ii. 20. Of the Wanyamwezi, 
21. Of the Wajiji, fii. OftheWarun- 
di, HiL Of the Wavinxa, 7_5_ Of the 
Watnta, II. Of the Wabuta, 7.8, Of 
the people of Karagwah, 1H2. Of the 
Wall inda, 22a Of the Warori, 21L. 

Dodges of the ferrymen, 164. 165. 

Dragon- flies in Unyamwezi, ii. 1 8. 

Drinking-bouts in East Africa, ii. 295. 33 J. 

Drinking-cups in East Africa, ii. 205. 

Drums and diumming of Ea>t Africa, ii. 205. 

Drunkenness of the Wazaramo, l LL>L Of 
the Wak'hutu, L2Q. And debauchery of 
the people of Mscne, 398. Prevalence 
of, near the Lake Tanganyika, ii. 5JL Of 
the Wajiji, ihL 

Dogs, wild, in Unyamwezi, ii. UL Pariah, 
in the villages of Ujiji, GO. Rarely heard 
to bark, £iiL 

Dolicos pruriens on the banks of the 
Mueta river, L 166. 

Donkey-men of the expedition, L 143. 

Dub-grass in the L's.-igara mountains, i, 171 . 

Dunda, or "the Hill," district of, L 5_4« 

Dunda Nguru, or " Seer fish-hill " L 6JL 

Dungomaro, or Mandama, river, arrival of 
the caravan at the, L 222. Description 
or the bed of the, 223_ 

Dut'humi, mountain crags of, L 65, 83, 8JL 
Illness of the chiefs of the expedition at, 
84. Description of the plains of, 86. 

Kagles, fish, of Ujiji, ii. 6JL. 

Kar-lobes distended by the Wasagara, L 23JL 
And by the Wahche, 232, By the 
Wagogo, 304. And by the Wahumba, 
312. Enlarged by the Wanyamwezi, ii. 
2L 

Karth-fruit of India, i. 198. 
Earthquakes in Unyamwezi, ii. Li, 
K^rwigs in East African houses, L 370. 

VOL. II. 0 



Ebb and flow of the Tanganyika Lake, iL 

143. Causes of, 143, l±L 
Education of children in Unyamwezi, ii. 

23, 24. 

Eels of the Tanganyika Lake, it. GiL 
Egzs not eaten by the Wanyamwezi, ii. 22 

Nor by the people of Ujiji, 5_2± 
Elaris Guinieusis,or Mchikichi tree, in Ujiji, 

ii 58. 

Elephants at Dut'humi, i, BZ. In Ugogi, 
212. At Ziwa, or the Pond, 25_L On 
the road to Ugogo, 247. On the Mgunda 
Mk'hali, 287, 282. In Ugogo, On 
the banks of the Malagaraxi river, 4 OS . 
In Unyamwezi, ii. L5, Near the sea of 
Ujiji, In East Africa, 2112. 

Elephant hunting in East Africa, ii. 29 H. 

English, the, how regarded in Africa, L 3_L 

Erhardt, M., his proposed expedition to 
East Africa, i,2* 

Ethnology of East Africa, L LQS* Of the 
second region, 225. et teq. 

Euphotbifc at Mb'hali, i, 401. In Ugogo, 
30O. In the Usagara mountains, L IG5. 

Evil eye unknown to the Wazaramo, L UG, 

Exorcism in East Africa, ii. 352. 

Falsehood of the coast clans of East Africa, 
L 3JL General in East Africa, ii. 328. 

Faraj, sketch of him and his wife, the lady 
Halimah. L 129. 

Fauna of Ujiji, ii. GH, 

Fetiss-huts of the Wazaramo described, L 5JL 
Of East Africa, a£2; ii. 346, 

Fetissism of East Africa, ii. 341. et *cq. 

Fever, marsh, cure in Central Asia fur, L 
82. The author prostrated by, at. 
Delirium of, 84, Of East Africa generally 
described, 105. The author and his 
companion again attacked by, at Muhama, 
1 7_9_, Common in the Usagara mountains, 
133. Seasoning fever of East Africa, 
generally, 379. Miasmatic, described, 
403. Low type, 4Q6. Seasoning fever 

* at Unyamwezi described, ii. 14, 

Fire-arms and Gunpowder in East Africa, 
ii. 3QH. 

Fires in Africa, ii. 25JL 

Fish of the Kingani river, L SfL Of the 
Tanganyika Lake, ii, 5JL Varieties of. 
67. Narcotised in Uzaramo, fc7_. At 
Wafanya, J 08. Considered as an article 
of diet iu East Africa, 2ML. 

Fishing in the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 6JL 

Fisi, or cynhyn?na, of Uzaraino, i. &L The 
scavenger of the country, L (cL 

Flics in Unyamwezi, ii. 18, Fatal bite of 
one in, L2, 

Flowers of Usagara, L 3 >ft At Mscne, 307. 

Fly, a stinging, the t/cUe, L 187. 

G 



450 



INDEX. 



Fog-rainbow in the Usagara mountains, L 

Food of the Warn ri ma, L 35. Of the 
Wazaramo, 5JL Of the people of Zun- 
gomero, 25, 2^ 92. Of the Wak'hutu, 
12& Of the expedition, 15_Li 128. Of 
the people of Marenga Mk'hnli, 201. Of 
the Wagogo, 310, 3LL Of llubuga, 312. 
Ol'Kiueh, 22JL Of Arabs of, 331 — 3Ji4- 
Of Wilyanhuru, 392— 394. Of Unyam- 
wezi, it 28, 22, Of Ujiji, 70. Of 
Karagwah, I8Q, L84- Of Uganda, 
196. J 7 . Of the Warori tribe, 223. 
East Africa generally, 2 SO. 

Ford* in East Africa, L 33G. 

Fowls not eaten by the Wanyamwezi, ii. 
22. Nor by the people of Ujiji, 5JL 

Frankincense of Ugogo, L 222. 

Frogs in Unyamwezi, ii. 17- Night con- 
certs of, LL Of the sea of Ujiji, G_L 

Frost, Mr., of the Zanzibar consulate, L 
3, 24- 

Fruits of East Africa, L 48^ 204- Of 
Usagara, 228, Of Yombo, 337. Of 
Mb'hali, -101. Of Ujiji, ii. 52- 

Fundi, or itinerant slave-artizans of Unyan- 
yembe, L 328- Caravans of the, 31 I. 

Fundikira, Sultan of Unyamwezi, notice of 
him, ii. 3_L 

Fundikira, Sultan of Ititenza, L 222, 

Funerals of the Wazaraino, L 119. Of the 
Wadoc, 124. 

Funza, brother of Sultan Matanza of Mscne, 
I 3Qfi. 

Furniture of East African houses, L 371 . 
Kitanda, or bedstead, 37 1. Bedding, 
371. Of the houses of the Wanyamwezi, 
ii. 2fi. 

Gadflies, annoyance of, at K'hok'ho, L 
'216. 

Gaetano, the Goanese servant, sketch of 
his character, L L34. Taken ill, 'AML 
His epileptic fits at Msene, 395, 399. 

Gama river, L 1 23. 

Gambling in East Africa, ii. 212. 

Game in Liar a mo, L 59j 24- In the Doab 
of the Mgeta river, 8_L In K'huta, I -0. 
In the plains between the Uufuta and the 
Mukondokwa mountains, 181. In 
Ugogi, 242. At Ziwa, or the Pond, 
251. At Kanyenye, '268. Scarcity of, 
in East Africa generally, 20" s. 

Ganza Mikono, sultan of Usek'he, L 212. 

Geography of the second region, L 225, et 
seq. Of Ugogo, 205. Arab oral, ii. 
m— 151. 

Geology of the rraritime region of East 
Africa, L 103. Of the Usagara moun- 
tains, 227. Of the road to Ugogo, '247. 



Of Mgunda Mkliali, L 282—28 I. Of 

Ugo»o, L 225- Of Unyamwezi, ii. (L 
Ghost-faith of the Africans, ii. 344. 
Gingerbread tree, described, L 42. 
Ginyindo, march to, ii. 252- Quarrel of 

the 13 a loch and porters at, 253. 
Giraffes in Ugogi, L 242* Native names 

of the, 242. 243- Use made of them, 

243. At Ziwa, or the Pond, 951. On 

the Mgunda Mk*hali, 289. In Unyarn. 

wezi, ii. L5» 
Girls of the Wanyamwezi, strange custom 

of the, ii. 24. 
Gnus in the Doab of the Mgeta river, L 

81. At Dul'humi, 87. 
Goats of Ujiji, ii. 52. 
Goma pass, the, L 168. 170. 
Gombe, mud-fish in the nullah of, L 334. 
Gombc Nullah, L £95, 397. 401. 4QJ, 

ii. 8. 

Goose, ruddy, Egyptian, L 317. 

Gourd, the, a musical instrument in East 

Africa, ii. 1294. 
Gourds of the Myotnbo tree in Usagara, 

L 222. 

Government of the Wazaramo, L 1 13. Of 
the Wak'hutu, 120, 12L Of th_> 
Wanyamwezi, ii. 3_L Of the Wajiji, 7_L 
Of the northern kingdoms of Africa, 
174. Mode of, in Uganda, 19-2. 
Forms of, in East Africa, 3»;o. 

Grain, mode of grinding, in East Africa. 
L ILL 222. That of Msene, 397. 39 3^ 
Of Ujiji, ii. 52. 

Grapes, wild, seen for the first time, ii. 41. 

Grasses of the swamps and marches of the 
Mrima, L 103, 1D4- The dub of the 
Usagara mountains, 171. 

Graveyards, absence of, in East Africa, ii. 
25. 

Ground-fish of the Tanganyika Lake, ii. f>P. 
Ground-nut oil in East Africa, ii. 285. 
Grouse, sand, at Ziwa, L 251. 
Guest welcome, or htshmat 1'il gharib, of 

the Arabs of Kazeh, L 329. 
Gugu-mbua, or wild sugar-cane, L 7t. 
Guinea-fowls in the Doab of the Mgeta 

river, L 84- Of the Kufuta plains, 183. 

Of Ugogi, 242. 
Guinea-palm of Ujiji, ii. 58. 
Gul Mohammed, a Baloch of the party, 

sketch of him, L 122. His conversation 

with Muzungu Mbaya, ii. 244. 
Gulls, sea, of the sea of Ujiji, ii. 60. 
Gungu, district of, in Ujiji, ii. 53. Its 

former and present chiefs, 52. Plundered 

by the Watuta tribe, 7JL 

Hail-storms in Unyamwezi, ii. 10. 

Hair, mode of dressing the, amongst the 



INDEX. 



4ol 



Wazaramo, L IQ8- And the Wak'lmtu, 
] 20. Wasagira fashions of dressing the, 
'234. Wagogo mode, 20jL Amongst 
the Wanyamwesi, ii. 2£L Wabuha mode 
of dressing the, 2fi» Aud in Uganda, 
189. 

llalimah, the lady, sketch of, L 1 29. Taken 
ill, 200- Returns home. ii. 977. 

Ilamdan, Sayyid, of Zanzibar, his death, L 2* 

llamerton, Lieut -Col., his friendship with 
thelate Sultan of Zanzibar, L 2. Inter- 
est taken by him in the expedition, 2* 
His objections to an expedition into the 
interior rid Kilwa, & His death, 6£L 
His character, GO. 

Ilamid bin Salim, his journey to the Wa- 
humba tribe, L 311. 

Haminals of the Wanyamwezi, character of 
the, ii. 162. 

H iminam, or primitive form of the lamp- 
bath, L 82^ 

II anga, journey to, ii. 222. Difficulties 

with the porters there, 222. 
Hartebeest in the Doab of the Mgeta river, 

L £LL 

Hawks of the Usagara mountains, L 1 62. 

Hembe, or " the wild buffalo's horn,*' his 
village, L 12. 

Hides African mode of dressing, L 22£i 

Hilal bin Nasur, his information respecting 
the southern provinces, ii. 228. 

Hippopotami on the cast coast of Africa, L 
9_i 12, 24, 56» In Unyamwexi, ii. LS. 
In the Ruche river, 52, 1.T8. In the sea 
of Ujiji, 60. 

Hishmat I'd gharib, or guest welcome of 
the Arabs of Kazeh, L 323, 222. 

Hogs of Ugogo, L 20LL 

Home, African attachment for, ii. 2ILL 

Honey in Ujiji, ii. 52, Abundance of, in 
East Africa, 2S7. Two kinds of, 28iL. 

Houses of Kuingani, L 42. The wayside, 
or kraals 53, 181. '2:10. Of the Wak'- 
hutu, 97, 1 '2 1 ¦ Of the Wazaramo, 1 ID. 
Of the Wagogo, Mti. Of the Arabs in 
Unyanyembe, 328. 222. Of stone, ig- 
nored by Inner Africa, 22* Of the coun- 
try beyond Marenga Mk'hali, called 
«' Tembe," 202. The Temlw of the Wa- 
hete, The Khambi or, Kraal, 3-»4. 

The Tembe of the Usagara, 366. Houses 
of East Africa generally described, 361. 
ii. 334. Pests of the houses, L 370. Fur- 
niture, 371. Of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 2fi. 
Of Karagwah, 182, L8JL. 

Hullak, the buffoon, L 4fL 

Hunting season in East Africa, ii. 296. 

Hyarnas in Ugogo, L 2JJL In Ujiji, ii. GZk 

Hyderabad, story of the police officer of, L 
'J 17. 

O 



Ibanda, second sultan of Ukerewe, ii. 211. 
Id, son of Muallim Salim, his civility at 

Msene, L 399. 
Iguanas of the Usagara mountains L. 169- 
Ihara or Kwihara, physical features of the 

plain uf, L 
Ikuka of Uhehe. march to, ii. 222. 
Illness of the whole party at Ujiji, ii.85. fig. 
Immigration in Central Africa, ii. 19. 
Imports and exports in East Africa, ii. 387. 
Indian Ocean, evening on the, L L View 

of the Mrima from the, 8. 
Industry, commercial, of die Wanyamwezi, 

ii. 22. 

Inenge, basin of, L 202. Halt at the, 202. 
Influenza, the, in Unyamwexi, ii. L2. 
Influenza, remedy in East Africa for, L 9JL 
Inhospitably of Africans ii. 131. 222. 
Inhumanity of the Africans ii. 329. 
Insects in East Africs L IM± 187* '201. 

202. In houses in East Africa, 370. In 

Ujiji, ii. 6_L 
Instruments required for the expedition, L 

L52. Breakage of, on the n>ad, 1 <;¦.>. 

Accidents to which thry are liable in 

East African travels, 18«>. 191. 
Intellect of the East African, ii. 222. 
Iron in Karagwah, ii. 18.*. In Urori, 27. 

And in Ubena, 22. Of East Africa 

generally, 3J L. 
Ironga, sultan of LTungu, defeats the 

Warori, ii. 7JL 
Ironware of Uvira, ii. LLL 
Irora, village of, L 389. Halt at, 389. 

Sultan of, liM. Return to, ii. l£fi. ~ 
Irrigation, artificial, in K'hutu, L 
Isa bin Hijji, the Arab merchant, exchange 

of civilities with, L 208, 2J_L Places a 

tembe at Kazeh at the disposal of the 

party, 3 '-'3. 

Isa bin Hosayn, the favourite of the Sultan 
of Uganda, ii. 19:*. 

Ismail, the Raloch, illness of, L 381. 

Ititenya, settlement of, L 3'J>i. 

Ivory, caravan of, L 1 2. Frauds perpetrated 
on the owners of tusks, LL Mode of 
buying and selling in East Attica, 32. 
Tcutera of Zungomero, 22. Mode of 
carrying large tusks of, 341. 348. Price 
of, at Uvira, ii. 120, 12J. Ivory of 
Ubena, 270. Trade in Ivory, 4Qft. 

Iwanza, or public-houses, in Unyamwezi, 
ii. L 22. Described, 27, 279, ^H.S. 

Iwemba, province of, ii. ]_£2. 

Jackal, silver, of Ugogi, L 249. 

Jambeho, arrival of the party at the settle- 
ments of, ii. Ufi. Cultivation of, :',G. 
Scaicity of food in. 2li. Revisited, 163. 

Jami of Harar, Shaykh, of the Somal, L 

O 2 



4.VJ 



IXDEX. 



Januhid, Sayyid, of Zanzibar, his death, L 2. 
Jasmine, the, in Usagaro, L 22S. 
Jealousy of the Wasaramo, L 6J_ 
Jelai, Seedy, the Ualuch, sketch of him, L 
1:17. 

Jezirah, island of, ii. 21 2. 

Jiwe la Mkoa, or the round rock, arrival of 
the party at, L 2HfL Description of it, 
287 ; ii. Halt at, 21^ 

Jiweni, arrival of the expedition at, L 2S9. 
Water at, 289. 

Jongo, or millepedes, in Unyamwezi, ii. L&. 

Jua, Dar el, or home of hunger, L GiL 

Juma Mfumbi, Divan of Saadani, his ex- 
action of tribute from the Wadoc, L 1 J .i. 

Jungle, insect pests of the, L 12fL Fire in 
the jungle in summer, ii. 1 6:1. 

Jungle-thorn, on the road to Ugogo, L 2ASL 
Near Kanyenye, 271. 

Kadetamarc, arrival of the party at, L 139. 
Loss of instruments at, 1 89. 190- 

K a Sirs of the Cape, date of their migration 
to the banks of the Kei, ii. 2. 

Kafuro, district of, in Karagwah, ii. 177- 

Kajjanjeri, village of, arrival of the party at, 
L 403. Deadly climate of, 4m. 

Kaunena, headman of Kawele, visit to, ii. 
81. Description of him, 8_L His mode 
of opening trade, 82. I lis ill-will, 83, 84. 
Agrees to take the party to the northern 
extremity of the lake, 23. His surly 
and drunken conduct, 21, Starts on the 
voyage, 23* His covctousness, J02i His 
extravagance, 1 '20. His drunkenness and 
fate, 1 -5<». 

Kanoni, sultan of the Wahha tribe, ii. 79. 
Kanoni, minor chief of Wafanya, visit from, 

ii. 1Q7. His blackmail, 1Q7. Outrage 

committed by his people, 124. 
Kanyenye, country of, described, L 26.5. 

Blackmail at, 265. Sultan Magomba of, 

26.5. 

Kaole, settlement of, described, L 12, UL 
The landing place of the expedition, 22. 

Karagwah, kingdom of, ii. 177. Extent 
of, 177. Boundaries of, 178. Climate 
of, ISO. People of, l&L. Dress of, 1 82. 
Weapons of, 182. Houses of, IK'> 
Sultan of, 183. Government of, 18ft. 

Karagwah, mountains of, it. 48, 144, 1 77. 

Kariba, river, ii. 1 46. 

Karindira, river, ii. 146. 

Karungu, province of, ii. 149. 

Kasangare, a Mvinza sultan, his subjects, L 
32*. 

Kaskazi, or N. E. monsoon, L 83. 
Rata, or sand-grouse, at Ziwa, L 2. i 1 . 
Katata, or Katanga, copper in, ii. 1 48. 
Katonga, river, ii. 187. 



Kawele, principal village of Ujiji, ii. 1L 
Attacked by the WatuU triln?, ii. 7JL 
Return of the expedition to, L2iL 

Kaya, or fenced hamlets, L 407. 

Kazch, arrival at, L 221, 322. Abdullah 
bin Salih's caravan plundered at, 321. 
Hospitality of the Arabs there, 323. 
Revisited, ii. I n 7. 

Kazembe, sultan of Uscnda, ii. 1 4ft. Ac* 
count of him. Hfl. 

Khalf.m bin Muallim Salim, commands an 
up caravan, L 1 79. His caravan attacked 
by small-pox. ITj^ 201. His falsehoods, 
17'). Spreads malevolent reports at 
Ugogo, 26JL 

Khalfan bin Khamis, his penny wise 
economy, L 288. Bids adieu to the 
caravan, 291. Overtaken half-way to 
Unyanyembc, 221. His civility at 
Mscne, 399. 

Khambi, or substantial kraals, of the way- 
side described, i. 53. 134. 

Khamisi, Muinyi, and the lost furniture, ii. 
168. 

K'hok*ho, in Ugogo, dangers of, L 272, 
274. Its tyrant sultan, 274. Insect an- 
noyances at, 276. 

Khudabakhsh, the Baloch, sketch of him, L 
1 38. His threats to murder the author, 
174. His illness in the Windy Pass, 
214. His conduct at Wafanya, ii. 1 IOl 
Reaches Kawele by land. 111. 

K'hulu, expedition enters the country of, 
L 8fL Irrigation in, 8& Hideous and 
grotesque vegetation of, 2L Climate of, 
22. Salt- pits of, 22. Country of, de- 
scribed, 119. Roads in, 3S5. Return 
to, ii. 964. Desolation of, 264. 

K'hutu, river L &L 

Kibaiba river, ii. 146. 

Kibuga, in Uganda, distance from the 
Kitangure river to, ii. 186. lioad U>, 
186. 187. Dcscrilwd, 183. 

Kihuya, sultan of Mdabura, blackmail of, 
L 222. Description of him, 212. 

Kichyoma-chyoma, " the little irons,"' Cap- 
tain Speke afflicted with, ii. 234. The 
disease described, 320. 

Kidogo, Muinyi, sketch of him, L 14Q. 
His hatred of Said bin Salim, 164. His 
advice to the party at Marenga Mk'hali, 
203. His words of wisdom on the road 
to Ugogo, 250. His management, 2.54. 
His quarrel with Said bin Salim, 255. 
Makes oath at Kanyenye, that the white 
man would not smite the land, 267. 
Loses hit heart to a slave girl, 314. His 
demands at Kazch, 377. Dismissed at 
Sorora, 402. Flogs Sangora, 403. Scut 
home, ii. 277. 



INDEX. 453 



Kidunda, or the "little hill," camping 
ground of, L 29. Scenery of, ILL 

Kifukuru, delay of the caravan at, L 264. 
Question of blackmail at, 264. Sultau 
of, 2£4. 

Kigari, on the Tanganyika Lake, halt of 

the party at, ii. 10 1. 
Kigwa, or Mkigwa, halt of the caravan at, 

L 212. The ill-omened forest of, 31 'J, 

Sultan Manwa, 319. 
Kikoboga, basin of, traversed, ii. 262. " 
Kikoboga river, ii. 2£LL 
Kilwa, dangers of, as an ingress point, L 

4. 5. 

Kimanu, the sultan of Ubena, ii. 270. 
Kinanda, or harp, of East Africa, ii. 298. 
Kinawani, village of, arrival of the caravan 

at, ii. 3£ 
Kindunda, " the hillock," I 24, 
Kinganguku, march to, ii. 25L 
Kingani river described, L 52. Valley of 

the, 52. Hippopotami and crocodiles of 

the, 56*. Fish of the, 5lL Its malarious 

plain, 22. Rise of the, h2± 
Kingfishers on the lake of Tanganyika, ii. 

Kipango, or tzetxe fly, of East Africa, L 

187. 

Kiperepcta, march to, ii. 252. 

Kiranga- Ranga, the first dangerous station 
in Uzaramo, L 59. 

Kirangozi, guide or guardian, carried by 
mothers in Uzaramo, L 1 1 fi. 

Kirangozi, or guide of the caravan, hU 
w rath, L 22L Description of one, 3-1(7. 
Meeting of two, 351. His treatment of 
his slave-girl, ii. Ifil. His fear of tra- 
velling northward, 112. 

Kiringawana mountains, L 233. 

Kiringawana route in the Usagara moun- 
tains described, ii. 242. 

Kiringawana, sultan, ii. 252. 

Kirira, halt of the party at, L 392 

Hospitality of an Arab merchant at, 392 
— 394. Climate of, 224. 

Kiruru, or u palm leaves" village of, L 82. 

Kirurumo, on the Mgunda Mk'hali, L 222. 
Water obtained at, 289- 

Kisanga, basin of, described, ii. 252. 

Kisabengo, the chief headman of Inland 
Magogoni, L 22. Account of his depre- 
dations, 22. 

Kisawhili language, remarks on the, L 15, 
note; ii. 198. 

Kisesa, sultan, his blackmail, ii. 1 1 4, 

Kitambi, sultan of Uyuwwi, recovers part 
of the stolen papers, L 220. 

Ki tan pure, or river of Karagwah, L 409 ; 
ii. 144^ 177^ Ififi. 

o 



Kiti, or stool, of East Africa, L 373. 
Kittara, in Kingoro, road to, ii. 187. Wild 

coflee of, L2Z.. 
Kivira river, ii. 122. 
Kiyombo, sultan of Urawwa, ii. 1-17. 
Kizaya, the P'hazi, L 54. Accompanies 

the expedition a part of their way, 55. 
Knobkerries of Africa, ii. 306. 
Kombe la Simba, the P'hazi, L 54. 
Konduchi, march to, ii. 214* Revisited, 

276. 

Koodoo, the, at Dut*humi, L 22. 
Koodoo horn, the bugle of East Africa, 
L 203. 

Kraals of thorn, in the Usagara mountains, 

L 22Q. Of East Africa, 254. 
Krapf, Dr., result of his mission, L 2. His 

information, 2. His etymological errors, 

36. note. 

Kuhonga, or blackmail, at Ugogo, L 25*2. 
Account of the blackmail of East Africa, 
252. 

Kuingani, "the cocoa-nut plantation near 
the sea," L 42. Described, 12. Houses 
of. 42. Climate of, 44. 

Kumbeni, isles of, L L. 

Kuryamavcngc river, ii. H6. 

Kwale, halt at the nullah of, L 315. 

Kwihanga, village of, described, L 390'. 

Ladha Damha, pushes the expedition for- 
ward, L LL. His conversation with 
Ramji, '23. 

Lakes,— Nyanza, or Ukerewe, L 311. 409. 
ii. 175, 176, 122, 125. Tanganyika, ii. 
4'2, it uq. ; 13-1, tt $*q. Mukiziwa, ii. 
142. 

Lakit, Arab law of, L '25*. 
Lamp-bath of Central Asia, L 22. 
Land-crabs in the Doab of the Mgeta river, 
L 8_L 

Language of the Wagogo, L 306. Of the 
Wahumba, 31 1 . Of the Wanyainwezi, 
ii. 5. Of the Wakimbu, £0. Of the 
Wanyamwezi, 2Q. Specimens of the 
various dialects collected, 198. Of the 
East Africans, 336. 

Leeches in Unyamwezi, ii. 12. 

leopards in Ugogo, i, SffiL In Unyamwezi, 
ii. 15. 

Leuca?thiops amongst the Wazaramo, L 1Q9. 
Libelluhv in Unyamwezi, ii. Ltt, 
Lions in Uzaramo, L 63. Signs of, o:i the 
road, 112. In Ugogo, 300. 204. In 
Unyamwezi, ii. 15. 
Lizards in the houses in East Africa, L 37 1, 
Locusts, or nzige, flights of, in Unyamwezi, 
ii. LB. Varieties of, UL Some con- 
sidered edible, 12. 

• 

c 3 



4.54 



INDEX. 



Lodgingt on the march in East Africa, L 
'iilL In Ugogo, 354. In Unyamwezi, 
354. In Uvinza, Mi At Ujiji, 354* 

Looms in Unyamwezi, i. 318; ii. L 

Lues in East Africa, ii. 3*LL 

Lunar Mountains, ii. 48, m, 

Lurinda, chief of Gungu, ii. iL Supplies 
a boat on the Tanganyika lake, «7. 
Enters into brotherhood with Said bin 
Saliro, ii. L2L 

Lying, habit of, of the African, ii. 

Mabruki, Muinyt, henchman in the expedi- 
tion, sketch of the character of, L L2Q. 
Hisslave boy, ii. His bad behaviour, 

I 73. 

Mabruki Pass, di-secnt of the, ii. 2&L 
Mnbunguru finmara, i, 283. Shell-fish and 

Silurus of ihe, 234. Arrival of the party 

at the, 235. 
Macau lay. Lord, quoted, L 393. 
Maehunda.chit.4" sultan of Ukerewe, ii. '_' H . 
Madege Madogo, the 44 little birds," district 

of, L 79. 

Madege Mkuba, «« the great birds," district 
° r , 122. 

Magic, black, or Uchawi, how punished by 
the Wazaramo, L 1 1^ 255. Mode of 
proceeding for ascertaining the existence 
of, ii. 3_2i Sir* Mganga. 

Magogoni, inland, country of, L £2. 

Magomba, sultan of Kanyenye,i.2<i5. Black- 
mail levied by, 265. Interview with him 
and his court, £66. Description of him, 
2Gfi. 

Magugi, in Karagwah, ii. Hi. 
Maizan, M., his death, L fi. Sketch of his 
career, 73. 

Maji m'ote, or "hot water" ant, of East 
Africa, I 187. 

Maji ya W'heta, or jetting water, the ther- 
mal spring of, L 152. Return to, ii. 
2£4. 

Majid, Sayyid, sultan of Zanzibar, L 2. 
Gives letters of introduction to the au- 
thor, 3. 

Makata tank, L 1RL Forded by the ex- 
pedition, 18U Return to, ii. 262. 

Makata plain, march over the, ii. 

Makimoni, on the Tanganyika Jake, ii. L25. 

MakuUniro, adventures at, L fiSL 

Malagarati river, L 334, 23i ii. 36, 39, 
Hi i& First sighted by the partv, 4Q7. 
Descrilied, 40^ 403. Courses "of the 
402. CrosseSTlJO. Return of the party 
to the, 1£4. 

Mallok, the Jemadar, sketch of his character 
and personal appearance, L 133. His 
desertion, and return, 1 7.3. Becomes 
troublesome, 381^ <dh±L His refusal to 



go northwards, ii. 122. Influence of 
bakhshish, 172. Sent home, ii. 277. 

Mamaletua, on the Tanganyika lake, halt 
of the party at, ii. 1 15. Civility of the 
people of, 1 Li. 

M'ana Miaha, sultan of KTiok'ho, L 222. 
Description of him, 214. His extor- 
tionate blackmail, 974. 

Mananzi, or pine-apple, of East Africa, L 
GJL 

Manda, the petty chief at Dufhumi, L 8JL 
Expedition sent against him, fiii, 

Mandama, or Dungomaro, river, arrival of 
the caravan at the, L 222. Description 
of the bed of the, 2?3. 

Mangrove forest on the east coast of Africa, 
lS. Of the Uzaramo, G2- 

Manners and customs of the Wamrima, L 
35, 32- Of the Wasawahili, 32. Of the 
Wazaramo, 103 rt uq. Of the WakTiutu, 
L^lL Of the Wadoc, LLL Of the Was 
ajrara, 935. Of the Wagogo, 309. illL 
Of the Wahumba, 312 Of the Wan- 
yamwesi, ii. 23. Of the Wamboxwa, 1 5i'. 

Mansauza, sultan of Msene, L 396. His hos- 
pital, 39fi. His firm rule, 396. His 
wives, 396, 399. His visits to the author, 
399. 

Manufactures of Msene, L 358. 
Manyora, fiumara of, L 80. 
Manwa, Sultan of Kigwa, his murders and 
robberies, L 319. His adviser, Mansur, 

319. 

Maraim, A hi, or Wa&hheiui, the, L 30. 
Mariki, sultan of Uyonwa, ii. 78. 
Marema, sultan, at the Ziwa, L 254. 
Marenga Mk hali, or "brackish water," 

river, L 203, 201. 2J2. Climate of, 203. 

Upper, water of the, 247. 271. 
Maroro, basin of, its fertility, ii. 254. The 

place described, 255. 
Maroro river, L 231. 

Marriage amongst the Wazaramo, L I IS. 
In Unyamwezi, ii. 24* In East Africa 
generally, 332. 

Marsh fever, L 82, £4, Delirium of, 34- 

Martins in the Rufuta plains, L In 
Unyamwezi, ii. LL 

" Marts," custom of, in South Africa, ii. 5jL 

Marungu, land of, ii. 149. Province* of, 
149. Roads iu, 149. Description of the 
country, 150. History of an Arab cara- 
van in, 151. People of, 152. 

Maruta, sultan of Uvira, ii. 116. Visit 
from his sons, 1 1 7. Description of them, 
LLi His blackmail, 120. 

Masenza, arrival of the ]>arty at the village 
of, L 406^ 407. 

Masika, or rainy season, in the second re- 
gion, L 231, 222. Of East Africa, 37». 



INDEX. 



455 



Mason-wasps of the houses hi East Africa, 
L 370. 

Masud ibn Musallam el Wardi, sent to 
Msirabira to recover the stolen papers, 

i. 325. His hospitality, 322. 
Masui, village or. ii. 229, 231. 

Masury, M. Sam., his kindness to the 

author, L 22. 
Mat- weaving in East Africa, ii. 316. 
Maunga Tafuna, province of, it. 1 .53. 
Maura, or Maula, a sultan of the Wanyam- 

wezi, L 316. Visits the caravan, 316- 

His hospitality, 316. Description of 

him, 316. 

Mauta, Wady el, or V.dley of Death, L 62. 
Mawa, or plantain wine, ii. 180, 197. Mode 

of making, 221. 
Mawiti, colony of Arabs at, L 22£. 
Mnzinga, or cannons, bee-hives so called in 

the interior, L 200. Described, '200. 
Mazita, account of, ii. 212. 
Mazungcra, P'hazi of Dege la Mhora, i. L5. 

Mulders his- guest, M. Maizun, T5, 7Ji± 

Haunted by the P'hcpo, or spitit of his 

guest, IfL 

Mharika tree, or Pahna Christi, of East 

Africa, L 48. 
Mbega, or tippet-monkey, in Unyamwezi, 

ii. Li 

Mb'hali, village of, descril»ed, L iQh 
Mbembu, a kind of medlar, in Ugogo, L 

Mbogo, or Bos CafTer, in the plains of East 
Africa, L 181. Described, 181. In Ugogo, 
30Q. On the Iiusugi river, ii. 40. 

Mboni, son of Ramji, carries off a slave 
girl, L m 

Mbono tree of East Africa, L 48. 

Mbugani, " in the wild," settlement of, de- 
scribed, L 397. 

Mbugu, or tree -bark, used for clothing in 
Ujiji, ii. 6jL Mode of preparing it, (H. 

Mbumi, the deserted village, L I21i. 

Mbungo-bungo tree, a kind of nux vomica, 
L 48. 

Mbuyu, or calabash tree, of East Africa, 
described, L 17. * 

Mchikichi tree of Ujiji, ii. 5JL 

Mdahuru, trying march in the jungle of, L 
277. 278- Description of, 212. 

Mdimu nullah, L 88. 

Meals at Ujiji, ii. £2. In East Africa, 280, 
334. 

Measures cf length in East Africa, ii. 388. 
Medicine chest required for the expedition, 
L l ~>j. 

Melancholy, inexplicable, of travellers in 

tropical countries, ii. 13Q. 
Metrongoma, a wild fruit of Yombo, L 

387. 

¦ 

<; 



Mfu'uni, hill of, L 1 10. Its former impor- 
tance, 171. 

Mfuto mountains, L 3 

Mfulo, clearing of, L 389. 

Mganga, or medicine-man of East Africa, 
described, L 28, His modus operandi, 
-11 ; u. 35JL His office as a priest, 35Q. 
As a physician, 352. As a detector of 
sorcery, S51L As a rain-maker, 357. 
As a prophet, 358. His minor duties 
359. 

Mganga, or witch of East Africa, L 380. 
Mgazi river, L 86. 

Mgege fish of the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 67. 

Mgetn river, the, L §0, 159. 160. 166 ; ii. 
228. Head of the, 80. Mode of cross- 
ing the swollen river, SO. Pestilence of 
the banks of the, L 127. Fords of the, 
L 33£; ii. 2G8. 

Mgongo Thembo, the Elephant's Back, 
arrival of the caravan at, L 290. De- 
scription of, 290. Inhabitants of, 220. 

Mgude, or Mparamusi, tree, described, u 
47. 60. 83. 

Mgute fish of the Tanganyika I^ake, ii. 67. 

Mgunda Mk'hali, or " the Fiery Field,'* i. 
281. Description of, 281. 282. Stunted 
vegetation of, 282. Geology of, 282. 
Scarcity of water in, 282. Traversed by 
the caravan, 283. Features of the, 283, 
222. 

Miasma of Sorora and Kajjanjeti, L 102. 

Mikiziwa Lake, in Uguhha, ii. 1 47. 

Milk of cows in Ujiji, ii. 612. As food in 
East Africa, 282. Preparations of, 283. 

Millepedes, or jongo, in Unyamwezi, ii. 18. 

Mimosa trees, L 83. Flowers of the, in 
Usagara, 228. Trees in Usagara, 222* 
In Unyamwezi, 318. Of the Usagara 
mountains, 165. 

Miyandozi, sultan of Kifukaru, L 
Levies blackmail on the caravan, 2fLL 

Mji Mpia, " new town," settlement of, de- 
scribed, L 397. Bazar of, 397. 

Mkora tree, uses of the wood of the, L 
214, 

Mkorongo tree, uses of the, in East Africa, 
L 314. 

Mkuba, or wild edible plum of Yombo, L 
281. 

Mkuyu, or sycamore tree, its magnificence 
in East Africa, L 195. Its two varieties, 
195. 196. 

Mkwoju laMouani, the "Tamarind in the 
rains," the village of, dcscrihvd, L 5JL 

Mninga tree, wood of the, L 37J3. Use of 
the wood, 373. 

Mnya Mtaz.i, headman of Uknranga, ii. 4JL 

Mohammed bin K harms, sailing-master of 
the Artcmise, l 8* 



45(> 



INDEX. 



Mohammed, the Baloch, the Rish Safid, or I 
greybeard, sketch of him, L Li_L At 
Kmeh, O&L 

Molongwe river, ii. 146. 

Money in East Africa, ii. 388. 

Mombas Mission, the, L 6, L 

Mongo Nullah, the, L '^Q Water obtained 
at the. 2*!L 

Mongoose, the, nt Dtit'hoini, L 8_Z* 

Monkeys of Muhiuyera, L (LL Of U*ig;tra 
mountains 1 6-i. In Unyamwczi, ii. Li. 

Monkey-bread, ii. 22_L 

Monsoon, the N. K., or Kaskazi, of East 
Africa, i,. ILL >( > j - In Unyamwezi, ii. [L 
Origin of the S. W. monsoon, 50. Failure 
of the opportunity for comparing the hy- 
grometry of the African and Indian mon- 
soons, 9 *. 

Moon, Land of the. See Unyamwexi. 

Moon, her splendour at the equator, L 
Halo or corona round the, in Unyamwe- 
zi, ii. M, 15. 

Morality, deficiency of, of the East Africans, 
ii. W,. 

Morus alba, the, in Uzaramo, L £0. 
Mosquitoes of East Africa described, L 182. 

On the Kuche river, ii. 52, 1 58. 
Mou ma islands, ii. I 53. 
Moumo tree (Boras&us Babclliformis), of 
East Africa, L 47^ 180. Toddy drawn 
from, 181. 
Mountains : — 

Duiliumi, i. 65. 83. 86. 110. 

Jiwe la Mkoa, L 286. 287, 205. 

Karagwah, ii. 48, 144. 177. 

Kilima Ngao, ii. 1 79. 

Kiringawana, L '.-':$3. 

Lunar, ii. 144, 1 7H. 

Mfuto, L 32JL 

Mukondokwa, i. 180, 185, 194. 2Q3, 
233. 

Ngu, or Nguru, L 87, 125, 225. 
Njcsa, L 0 -'6- 

Hubeho, L 203. 211, 214. 218. 215. 

Kufuta, L 167, [lOi IELL 

Uhha, ii. 160. 

LJrundi, L 4(>Q ; ii. 4fi. 

Usagara, L 101* LL9, 160, 215, 

219, 225, 297. 

Wahumba, L 2115. 

IVigo, L 1 50. 
Mountains, none in Unyamwezi, ii. 6, 
Mpagamo of Kigandu, defeated by Msim- 

bira, L 327. 
Mparamusi, or Mgude, tree, L 47, 60, 9JL 
Mpete, on the Malagarazi river, L 4 10. 
Mpingu tree, L 373. Uses of the wood of 
the, ft 73. 

Mporota, a den of thieves, halt at, ii. 252. 
Mrima, or hill-land,** of the Ea«»t African 



coast, described, L 8, 30. Inhabitants of, 
SO. Their mode of life, 35. Mode of 
doing business in, Vegetation of the, 

47. Geography of the, LOO. Climate 
of the, 1Q2. Diseases of the, 1Q5. 
Uoads of the, 105. LQtL Ethnology of 
the, 106. 

Murorwa, sultan of Wilyankuru, L f*f)l. 

Msondarusi, or copal-tree, of Uzaramo, i. 6 t. 

MsL'tte, settlement of, arrival of the party at, 
L ti't.5. Description of, :>;>>. Sul- 
tan Masawza of, 396. Prices at, 3'C 
Productions of, 397. 398. Currency of, 
3'>H. Industry of, :i')S. Habits of the 
people of, 308. Climate of, 3QQ. 

Msimbira, sultan of the Wasukuma, L 319. 
Papers of the party stolen and carried to 
him, 39Q. Refuses to restore them, Si'O. 
Send a party to cut off* the road, 321. 
Defeats Sultan Mpagamo, 327. 

Msopora, Sultan, restores the stolen gocds, 
ii. 166. 

Msufi, a silk-cotton tree, in Uzaramo, L 60. 

Msukuiio tree of Uzaramo, L 6_1_, Sd. 

Mtanda, date of the establishment of the 
kingdom of, ii. 5. 

Mtego, or elephant traps, L 287. Disap- 
pearance of the Jemadar in one, 288. 

Mt'hipii'hipi, or Abras precatorius, seeds of, 
used as an ornament, ii. 181. 

Mtogwc tree, a variety of Nux vomica, L 

48. In Unyamwezi, 318. 401. 
Mtumbara, Sultan, and his quarrel, ii. 1 57. 
Mtuoguja tree of the Mrima, L li. 
Mtungulu apples in Ugogo, L 300. 
Mtuwwa, in Ubwari island, halt of the 

party at, ii. 1 1 4. Blackmail at, l 12- 
Mud-fish, African mode of catching, i. 3 1 5. 
Mud-fish in the Gombe nullah, L 334. 
Mud, Yegea, L 83. 

Muhama, halt at the nullah of, L 176. 17ft. 
Muhinna bin Su lay man of Kazeb, hU ar- 
rival at Kawele, ii. 1 33. HU extortion, 

13-1. 

Muhinna bin Sulayman,thc Arab merchant 

of Kazeh, L 323. 
Mtfhivv-el-Din, Shafebi Hazi of Zanzibar, 

Muhiyy-el-Din, Kazi, of the Wasawahili, 

Muhonge, settlement of, described, L 6JL 

Muhonycra, district of, described, L 63. 
Wild animals, 63. 

Mui' Gumbi, Sultan of the Warori, ii. 27 1 . 
Defeated by Sultan Ironga, 15. De- 
scription of him, 27 1. 

Muikarnbo, on the Tanganyika Lake, night 
spent at, ii. 1 1_5_. 

Muingwira river, ii. 21 L. 

Muinyi Wazira, engaged to travel with the 



INDKX. 



expedition, i. 52. Sketch of his character, 
J 21L Requests to be allowed to depart, 
314. His debauch and dismissal, 399. 
Reappears at Kazeh, ii. 168. Ejected, 
168. 

Muinyi, halt of the party at, L 193. De- 
termined attitude of the people of, 194. 

Muinyi Chandi, passed t". rough, L 39Q. 

Mukondokwa mountains, i. 180. 1 85, 1 9G, 
19?. '203. 2.13. Bleak raw air of the, Ml* 

Mukondokwa river, L «A IMi 192. 
tl 1. Ford of, l£&* Valley of the, 1 9_i 

Mukozimo district, arrival of the party at 
the, L 407. Inhospitably of the chiefs 
of, 101, 

Mukunguru, or seasoning fever, of L'nyam- 

weai, ii. 14- 
Mulberry, the whitish -green, of Uzaramo, 

L ea 

Murchison, Sir K., his triumphant geological 
hypothesis, L 409. His notice respecting 
the interior of Africa, 4Q9. note. 

Murunguru river, ii. 1 5jL 

Murivumbn, tents of the party pitched at, 
ii. 1 14. Cannibal inhabitants of, 114. 

Murundusi, march to, ii. 25iL 

Musa, the assistant Kish Satid of the party, 
sketch of him, L 138. 

Musa Mzuri, handsome Moses, of Kazeh, L 
323. His return to Kazeh, ii. 223, His 
history, His hospitality, 2^6, Visits 

the expedition at Masui, 231. His kiud- 
nevs, 2lL 

Music and musical instruments in East 
Africa, described, ii. 291, 33JL Of the 
Wajiji, 28, 

Mutware, or Mutwale, the Lord of the 
Ferry of the Malagarazi river, L 40?). 

Muzungu, or white man, dangers of accom- 
panying a, in Africa, L 10, 1L 

Muzunga Mbaya, the wicked white man, 
the plague of the party, ii. 239. His 
civility near home, 24 O. Sketch of his 
personal appearance, and specimen of bis 
conversation, 21 1. 

Mvirama, a Mzaramo chief, demands rice, 
L SSL 

Mviraru, a Wazaramo chief, bars the road, L 
58. 

Mvoro fish in the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 61* 
Mvule trees used for making canoes, ii. 
Lii. 

Mwami, or wild coffee of Karagwah, ii. 

180. 181. 187. 
Mwimbe, or mangrove trees, of the coast of 

East Africa, L 9_, Those of Uzaramo, 

02* 

Mwinibi, bad camping ground of, ii. 262. 
Mwongo fruit tree, in Mb'hali, L 401. 
Mgombi river, L 183. 



Myombo tree of East Africa described, L 

1 Q± Of Usagara, 229. 
Mzimu, or Fctiss hut, of the Wazaramo, 

described, L 51* In Ubwari Island, halt 

at, ii. LUL He-visited, 121. 
Mziga Mdogo, or ** The Little Tamarind," 

arrival of the party at, L 161. 
Mziga- ziga, a mode of cairying goods, L 

Ml* 

Mzogera, Sultan of Uvinza, L 408. His 
]>owcr, 408. Settlement of blackmail 
with envoys of, 4DJL. 

Names given to children by the Wazaramo, 
L USL 

Nakl, or first stage of departure, L 4JL 

Nur, Beni, 14 sons of fire," the English so 
called in Africa, L 3_L 

Nautch at Kuingani described, L ±5, 

Ndabi tree, L 196. Fruit of the, 196. 

Ndubi, halt of the caravan at, L 196. 

Navigation of the Tanganyika Lake, an- 
tiquity of the mode of, ii. 96. 

Necklaces of shells worn in Ujiji, ii. 65. 

Nge, or scorpions, of East Africa, L 370. 

Ngole, or Dendraspis, at Dut'humi, L SI* 

Night in the Usagura mountains, L 162. In 
the caravan, described, SH 9. 

Nile, White, Ftolemy's notion of the origin 
of the, ii. 17JL Captain Speke's supposed 
discovery of the sources of the, 2Q4. 

Njasa, Sultan of the Wasagam, his visit to 
the expedition, L 199- Description of 
him, 199. Makes " sore" or brotherhood 
with Faid bin Salim, 199. 

Njesa mountains, L 

Njugu Nyussa, the Arachis Hypogaea, as 
an article of food, L 198. 

Northern kingdoms of Africa. See Karag- 
wah, Uganda, and Ungoro. 

Nose pincers of the Wajiji tribe, ii. QS* 

Nullahs, or watercourses of East Africa, L 
102. 

Nutmeg, wild, of Usui, ii. 1 76. 

Nyakahanga, in Karagwah, ii. 177. 

Nyanza, or Ukerewe, Like, L 311, 439 ; ii. 
175, 1 76, 1 79. Chances of exploration 
of the, L25- Geography of the, 206. 
210, et $tq. Size of the. 212. Position 
of the, 21 1. Commerce of the, 215. 
Savage ract-s of the, 2 1 5. Reasons why 
it is not the head stream of the White 
Nile, 218. Tribes dwelling near the, 219. 

Nyara, or Chatmerops humilis, of the 
Mrima, L 18. 

Nyasanga, fishing village on the Tanga- 
nyika lake, ii. 101. 

Nzasa, halt at the, L 54. 

Nzige, or locusts, flights of, in Unyam- 
wezi, ii. 18« Vurietics of, 1JL 



INDEX. 



Oars not use J on the Tanganyika Lake, it. 

9A 

Ocelot, the, of Ugngi, L Q49- 

O.I, common kind of, in East Africa, ii. 

'2*5. Various kinds of, 
Olive-tree unknown in East Africa, ii. 

28 .1. 

Olympus the ./Ethiopian, ii. 17$. 

Onii>ns cultivated in Unyamwi-zi, L 330. 

Ophthalmia, several of the party suffer 
from, in Unyamwezi, L iiiti. 

OphiUia in Unvainwezi, ii. LZ* 

Ordeal for witchcraft, ii. 357. Amongst 
the Wazaramo, i, 1 14. 

Ornaments worn hy the Wazaramo, L 1 !<>¦ 
By the Wak'hutu, L2Q. Fondness of the 
Africans for, 147^ 14^ L5SL Of the 
Wasagara tribe, 1 99. °37. Of the Wa- 
gogo,aQi Of the Wahumba. 312. Of 
the portets of caravans 340. Of sultans 
in East Africa, 396. Of the Wakimha, 
ii. 20, Of the Wanyamwezi, 22. Of 
the Wahuh.i, IS. Of the Wahwari 
islanders, 113, Of the people of 
Karagwah, 1 HI. 

Ostriches in Ugogo, u 301. Value of 
feathers in East Africa, L 3Q1. 

Outfit of the expedition, articles required 
fur the, L 151. 

Oxen of Ujiji, ii. 52. 

Paddles used on the Tanganyika lake, ii. 

96. Descrihcd, 2fL 
Palm, /ypha?na, L HjJ, 6JL. 
Pulma ChrUti, or Mbarika, of East Africa, 

Palm-oil, or mawezi, of the shores of the 
lake Tanganyika, ii. 5fi± Mode of ex- 
tracting it, 5A 5JL Price at the lake, 52, 
Uses to which it is applied, 53. Trade 
in, at Wafanya, 1Q7. 

Palmyra tree (Horasrus fl.ibcUiformis), in 
the plains, L 1 80. Toddy drawn from, 
1 HI- At Yambo, 387. And at Mh'hali, 
¦401. Tapped for toddy at Msene, 398. 

Pangani river, ii. 179. 

Papazi, pest of, in Eust Africa, L 37 I . 

Papilionacea; in Unyamwezi, ii. 18. 

Panda, village of, L 4t>3- 

Pa no, village of, i, 389. 

Parugerero, district of, in Unyamwezi, ii. 
37. Salt manufacture of, 3_L 

Partridges in the Doab of the Mgcta river 
L «L 

Pazi bug, the, of East Africa, L 371. 
Peewit, the, in the Kuf'uta plains, L 183. 
Pliantasmata in East Africa, ii. 3 V-'. 
l"hnzi, or hea<lmen of the Wazaramo, i, 5L 
LUL Of the Wak'hutu, ULL 



Pliepo, ghost or devil, African belief in, L 

hfi ; ii. 3.52* Exorcism, 35*2. 
Phlebotomy in East Africa, ii. W2. 
Pig-nuts of East Africa, L 103 
Pillaw in Africa, L 393. How to boil rice, 

393. 

Pine-apple, or Mananzi, of East Africa, L 

Cfi 

Pipes in East Africa, ii. 315. 

Pismires, chungo-fundo or siyafu, of the 
banks of the rivers in East Africa, descri- 
bed, L 1 Bo. Its enemy, the maji mo to, 

Pismires black, annoyance of, at KTjok'bo, 

i. 276. 

Plantain wine of Karagwah, ii. 180. And 
of Uganda, 197. Mode of making it, 

287. 

Plantains near the Unguwwe river, ii. 4 1 . 

Of Ujyi, 58, Tlie staff* of life in many 

places, 5JL Luxuriance of it, 5§i Varieties, 

53. Of Uganda, 12G. 
Play fair, Captain 1L L., his " History of 

Arabia Felix" quoted, L 68j note. 
Plum, wild, of Yombo, L 387. 
Plundering expeditions of the Wazaramo, 

L LL2. 

Poisons used for arrows in Africa, ii. SOI. 
Polygamy amongst the Wanyamwezi, iu 
2L 

Pombc beer, of East Africa, i, 9_5i 1 16, 333. ; 

ii. 180, 235, Universal use of, L 3Q9 ; 
ii. 22. Mode of making it, 286. 

Porcupines in K'hutu, L lfiQ 

Porridge of the East Africans, L 35. 

Porridge flour, of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 29. 

Porters, or Pagazi, the Wanyamwezi, of the 
expedition, L 143. Character of East 
African, 144. Iu East Africa, 337. 
Variations of porterage, 339. Great 
weight carried sometimes by, 311. Their 
discontent, 343. Desertion of in Wilyan- 
kuru, 391. Description of those hired in 
Ujiji, ii. 151. Of the Wsrori, 271. 

Pottery, art of, in East Africa, ii. SIS. 

Prices at Msenc, L 397. In the market 
at Unyanycmbe, 333. In Ujiji, ii. Ii. 
At Wafanya, W2* At Uvira, 120^ 12L 

Proverbs, Arab, i. 50. 86. 130. 133, 135, 

African, L 3_L 

Moslem, ii. 1 :i 1 . 

Persian, ii, 237. 

Sanscrit, L 133. 

Wanyamwezi, i, 338. 

Pumpkins junsal or boga, grown at Ma- 
renga Mk'nali, L 20 1 . 

Punishments in Uganda, ii. 1 9g. 

Punishments in East Africa, ii, :\(, I. 

Punnccria coagulans of the Mritna, L ±8, 



INDEX 



Quag gas in Unyamwezi, ii. 1 5. 

Races of the Northern Kingdoms of Africa, 
ii. 174,1X5. 

Rahmat, the Baloch, L Ifi. 

Rain at Zungomero, L 156. Autumnal, nt 
Muliama, 179. In the Usagara moun- 
tains 218, 231. 232. In Ugogo, 298. 
The Masika or wet season, 378. In 
Unyamwezi, ii. 8 — 10. In the valley of the 
Maiagarazi river, 42, In Karagwah, lfiO. 

Ranibow, fog, in the Usagara mountains, L 
222. 

Hamji, the Banyan of Cutch, engaged to 
accompany the expedition, L 1H. Hi* 
commercial speculation. 20. His con- 
versation with I.adha Uamha, 2X Visits 
the author at Kuingani, 43. Account of 
him, 43, 44. His advice, 4JL 

Ramji, ••sons" of, sketch of them, LllO. 
Their ever- increasing baggage, 1£2» 
Their quarrjs with the Baloch soldiers, 
163. Their insolence, 164. Reappear 
at Kazch, ii. 168. Allowed to take the 
places of porters, 221. Return home, ii. 
222, 

liana? of Unyamwezi, iL LS. Of the Tan- 

ganvika Lake, ii. <LL 
Rats, 'field, i 150. On the banks of the 
Mukondokwa river, 193. J louse rats of 
Ujiji, iL GO. « 
Ravens of the Usagara mountains L LG2. 
Religion of the Wazaramo, L LL5. Of the 
East Africans, ib. ; ii. SAL An African's 
notion of God, 348 note. 
Reptiles in Unyamwezi, ii. 12. 
Respect, tokens of, amongst the Wajiji, ii. 62. 
Revenge of the African, ii. 329. 
Revenue, sources of, in East Africa, ii. 36. 5. 
Rhinoceroses at Dut'humi, L £2. On the 
road to Ugogo, Q47 On the Mgunda Mk'- 
hali, 889. In Ugogo, 300. In Unyam- 
wezi, ii. L5. The Rhinoceros horn trade 
of East Africa, 413. 
Rice, how to cook, L 3?) 3 Red, density 
and rapidity of growth of, at Msene, 7. 
Luxuriance of, in Ujiji, ii. 5JL Allowed 
to degenerate, 5_L Unknown in Karag- 
wah, ISO. 
Ricina? of East Africa, L S2L. 
){ighy, Captain, at Zanzibar, ii. 282. 
Rivers : — 

Dungomaro, or Mandama, L 222. 

Gama, L 123. 

Kariba, ii 1 46. 

Karindire, ii. 1 46. 

Katonga, ii. lfil. 

K'hutu, L 8JL 

Kibaiba, iL 146. 

Kingani, L 56, 69* 87, 101^ 123, 2iiL 



Kikoboga, ii. 2GJL 

Kitangurc, or Karag wah, L 409.; iL 

144, 177, i&iL 
Kuryamavenge, ii. 1JJL 
Maiagarazi, L 334, 337, 407, 40S ; iL 

36, 39, 47, 49, 164. 
Mandama, or Duugomero, 222. 
Marenga Mktiuli, L 200, 2Q1. 
Marenga Mkliali, upper, L 247. 
Maroro, L 231. 
Molongwe, ii. 146. 
Mgazi, L 86. 

Mgeta, L 80, 86, 87.88. 101. 119. 127. 

159. 160. 336; ii. 264. 268, 224. 
Muingwira, ii. 1 87. 

Mukondokwa, L 88, 181, 188, 192, 

216. 311. 
Myombo, i, 181. 
Mwcga, ii. 256. 
I'angaui. L L25. ; iL 179. 
Ruche, ii. 46, 52, l_5_2, 158. 
Rufiji, or Rwaha, L 30. LPi, 112. 216. 

220. 225. 23_L ; ii. 257, 270, 370. 
Rnfnta. i. 167. 

Ruguvu, or Luguvu, ii 40, 52. 

Rumangwa, ii. 1 49, 153. 

Rumuma, L 197. 

Rusizi, or Lusizi, iL 117, 1 4 6. 

Rusugi, iL 37, 161. 

Rwaha, or Rufiti, L 216, 220, 225, 231. 
225 ; ii. 8* 

Tumbiri of Dr. Krapf, ii. 217. 

Unguwwe, or Uvungwe, ii, 40, 5'2. 

Yovu, ii. 25J7, 258. 

Zohnwe, L L22. 
Riza, the Haloch, sketch of him, L 1 39. 
Roads in the maritime region of East Africa 
described, L 105. lOfi. In the Usagara 
Mountains, 25tn. From Ugogo to 
Unyamwezi, 2S_L In Ugogo, 302. In 
Unyanyembe, 325. Description of the 
roads in East Africa, 335. In Unyam- 
wezi, ii. 12. From the Maiagarazi 
Ferry, 5L 

Rubcho Mountains, L 233. 211, 245. 233. 

Rubeho, or " Windy Pass" painful ascent 
of the, L 213. Scenery from the summit, 
214. Village of Wasagara at the summit, 

218. 

Rubeho, the Great, halt at the, L 215. 

D irgerous illness of Capt. Speke at, 'J\5. 

His restoration, 215. 
Rubeho, the Little, ascent of the, L 215. 

Fight between the porters and the fuur 

Wak'hutu, 2KL 
Rubeho, the Third, halt of the caravan at, 

L 22L 

Rubuga, arrival of the caravan at, L 315. 
Visit from Abdullah bin Jumah and hu 
flying caravan, 315. Flood at, 317. 



4<jO 



INDEX 



Ruche river, ii. S2. Mouth of the, 46^ 1 57, 

Kudi, inarch to, ii. 2.51. 

Rufiji river, the. L 30, 216. 220, 22 5, 2J1 ; 

ii. 257. 379. Races on the, L 30. 
Rnfita Puss in Umgara, ii. 259. 
Rufuta fiumara, the, L 1^7. 
Roguvu, or Luguvu, river, ii. 40, 52. 

Ford* of i he, L 336. 
Uuhemhe rivulet, the, ii. 2&L Hak in the 

basin of the, 261. 
Ruhcmbc, Sultan, slain hy the Watuta, ii. 

is. 

Kukunda, or Lukutida, night spent at, L 

Ruinanika of Karagwah, his rebellion and 
defeat, ii. 183. Besieges his brother, 

224. 

Rumuma river, described, L 197. 

Rutnuma, halt of the caravan at, L 198. 
Abundance of its supplies, 128. Visit 
from the Sultan Njasa at, 199. Climate 
of, 19*L 

Rusimba, Sultan of Ujiji, ii- 7J2. 

Rusizi river, ii. 1 17. L11L 

Rusugi river, described, ii. 32. Forded, 

Ruwcre, chief of Jambcho, levies M dash " 

on the party, ii. 3fL 
II walia river, L 295, 216^ 220, 225^ 231, iL 

257. 

Sage, in Usagara, L 22R. 

Sangale hah in the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 

fil. 

Said, Say y id. Sultan of Zanzibar, the 
14 Imaum of Muscat," L 2. Mis sons 2. 

Salim bin Rashid, the Arab merchant, calls 
on Captain Burton, ii. 228. 

Said bin Salim, appointed Ras Kafilah. or 
caravan guide, to the expedition, L 9* LiL 
Attacked by fever, 7_L His terror of tlie 
Wazaramo, 12. His generosity through 
fear, 20. His character, 122. His 
hatred of the Ruloch, 1 63. H is covetous- 
nets, 163. Insfeh-uce of his slaves, 

161. His dispute with Kidogo, 255. 
His fears, and neglect at Ugogo, i?SO. 
His iuhospitality, 287. His change of 
behaviour, 382. His punishment, 384. 
His selfishness, 391. His fears, ii. I 'J 5. 
Enters into brotherhood with Lurinda, 
] 25. And afterwards with Kannena, 
126. His carelessness of the supplies, 
197. His impertinence, 159. 16Q- His 
attempts to thwart the expedition, 172. 
Filches tents outside Kazeh, 227. 
Moves to ths village of Masui, 222. 
Dismissed from his stewardship, 232. 
His news from Zanzibar, 261. His 
terror in L'taraino, 225. Leaves for 



home, 222. Visits the author st Zanzi* 
bar, jm* 

Said bin Aiicl Hinawi, the Arab merchant 
of Kazeh, L 322. 

Said bin Majid, the Arab merchant of 
Kazeh, L 323. Return of the expedi- 
tion with his caravan, ii. 157. Separation 
from him, LS5. Treatment of his people 
st Ujiji. 81. 

Said bin Mohammed of Mbuamaji, and his 
caravan L 252. Account of him ami bis 
family, 25A 

Said bin Mohammed, Sultan of Irora. i. 
389. His surliness, 389. Brought to his 
senses 389. 320. 

Salim bin Said, the Arab merchant in Wil- 
yankuru, L 391. His hospitality, 391. 

Salim bin Masud. the Arab merchant, mur- 
dered, L 328. 391. 

Sanscrit proverb, i. 133. 

Salt, demand for, in Ujiji, ii. 82. Scarcity 
of, at Wafanya, 108. Stock, laid in, ii. 
1£L 

Salt-pits of K'hntu, L 22, 

Salt-trade of Farugerero, iL 32. Quality 
of the salt, 32. 

Salsaparilla vine of Uzaramo, L 60. 

Sare, or brother oath, of the Wazaramo, L 
1 14. Mode of performing the ceremony, 
1 14. Ceremony of, performed between 
Sultan Njasa and Said bin Salim, L I V'J. 

Sawahil, or 41 the shores" geographical po- 
sition of the, i. 29. 30. People of, de- 
scried, 30. 

Sayf bin Salim, the Arab merchant, account 
of, L 83. Returns to Dut'humi, 128. 
His covetousness 1 28. Crushes a servile 
rebellion, L25. 

Scorpions of East Africa, L 370. In the 
houses in Ujiji, ii. (LL 

Seasons, aspect of the, in Ugogo, L g'iS. 
Eight in Zanzibar, ii. 8. Two in Un- 
yamwcxi, 8. 

Seedy Mubarak Bombay, gun-carrier in the 
expedition, character of, L 130. 222. His 
demand of bakhshish, ii. 1 73. His pe- 
culiarities 23fL Appointed steward, 2 >7. 

'Sfkivrfs 6pos of the Greeks locality of the, 
ii. i. 

Servile war in East Africa, L 125. 
Shahdad, the Bsloch, sketch of him, L 135. 

Left behind at Kazeh, 381. 
Sharm, or shame. Oriental, L 23. 
Sheep of Ujiji, ii. 52. 

Shehe, son of Ratnji, appointed Kirangoxi, 
ii. 232. Dismissed, 238. 

Shields of the Wasagara tribe, L 238. 

Unknown to the Wagogo, 3Q4. Car- 
ried by the Wahuinba, 312. In Unyatn- 
wezi, ii. 23. 



INDEX. 



4()1 



Shoes required for the expedition, L 154. 
Shoka, or battle-axes of the East Africans, 
ii. 302. 

Shukkah, or loin cloth, of East Africa, L 14iL 
Of the Wasagara, 235. Materials of 
which it is made, 226, 

Siki, or vinegar of East Africa, ii. 288. 

Sikujui, the lady, added to the caravan, L 
21£. Description of her, 210. 221, 

Silurus, the, of the Mabungurti fiumara, L 

Sime, or double-edged knives, of the Wasa- 
gara, L 240. Of the Wagogo, 304L Of 
the Wanyamwtzi, ii. 22. Of East Africa 
generally, 307. 

Singa fish of the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 68, 

Siroccos at Ugcgo, L 2£Q, 

Siyafu, or black pismires, annoyances of, 
at K'hok'ho, i. 22S. 

Skeletons on the road side, LL£2* 168. 

Skin, colour of the, of the Waxaramo, L 
10H. Of the Wak'hutu, 120. Of the 
Wadoc, 124. Of the Wagogo, 004. 
Sebaceous odour of the, of the Wazara- 
mo, 309. Of the Wanyamwezi, ii. 20. 
Warundi, 14j. Karagwah people, 181. 
Skin diseases of East Africa, 3m 

Slave caravans of East Africa, L 12* At 
Tumba Ihcrc, SJL At Zanzibar, 5£L 

Slaves and slavery: kidnapping in Inlund 
Magogoni, L 8JL In Dut'humi, 8JL 
Slavery in K'hutu, 97^ 98^ 124. Kidnap- 
pings of the Wazegura, 125. Pitiable 
scene presented by a village after a com- 
mando, 18J. In Ujogo, 309. In Un- 
yamwezi, ii. 2iL Of Ujiji, 61^ 7_L Prices 
of slaves in, G2j 7_L Prices of Wahha 
slaves at Mscne, 1SL Not trustworthy in 
Africa, 1 1 1. Tlieir modes of murder- 
ing their patrons, 1 1 1. Prices of, in 
Uvira, 12.L. In Kiragwah, 184. In 
Ubena, 27Q. Degrading eflTects of the 
slave trade, 340. 3.6JL Origin of the 
slave trade of East Africa, 366. Treat- 
ment of slaves, 367, 369. Two kinds of 
slave trade, 3(iS. Kidnapping, 369. 
Character of slaves, 371. Revenge of 
slaves 374. 'M5. Female slaves. 375. 
Prices of slaves, 373. Number of slaves 
imported yearly into Zanzibar, 3^7. Ease 
with which the slave-trade at Zanzibar 
could be alxdished, 377. 
Smallpox in the Usagara mountains. L I (>0 . 
And in the up caravans, 179. The por- 
ters of the party attacked by, 18a 184. 
190. In Khalfan's caravan, 2Q1. In the 
caravans in East Africa, 342. In East 
Africa generally, ii. 318. 
Smoking parties of women at Yombo, L 
388. 



Snay bin Amir, the Arab merchant of 
Kazeh, i. 323. Performs the guest rites 
there, 323. 3J24. Sketch of his career, 
324. His visit to the Sultan of Ugunrla, 
ii. 193. His kindness, L aM ; ii. 231. 

Snakes at Unyamwezi, ii. 12, In the 
houses in Ujiji, 6_L 

SnuflT, Wajiji mode of taking, ii. fii. 

Soil, fertility of the, at Msene, L 397. Cha- 
racter of the, in Unyamwezi, ii. fi. Won- 
drous fertility of the, in the valley of the 
Malagarazi river, 43. And of that of 
Ujiji, 52. 

Soma Giri, of the Hindus, locality of the, 
ii. 4, 

Songs of the porters of the caravan, ii. 361 , 

3iL2. Of East Africa, ii. 291 . 
Sorghum cultivated in Ujiji, ii. 57. 
Sorora, or Solo I a, in Unyamwezi, arrival of 

the party at, L 4iil. its deadly climate, 

40L 

Speke, Capt., his illness in Uzaramo, L Q2i 
65, 69. Shakes off his preliminary sym- 
ptoms, 7_L Lays the foundation of a 
fever, 82, Thoroughly prostrated, M, 
Recovers his health at Mzizi Mdogo, 161. 
Again attacked at Muhama, 179. And 
by " liver" at Rumuina, 20~). Danger- 
ous illness at the Windy Pass, 214. Ilc- 
stored, 24£, Unable to walk, 28ft, 
Awaits reserve supplies at Kazeh, 3S6. 
Rejoins the caravan, 390. Tormented by 
ophthalmia, 406, ii. Bfi, Starts on an 
expedition to explore the northern ex- 
tremity of the Tanganyika Lake, 62, 
Returns moist and mildewed, and no- 
thing done, 90. His M Journal " in" Black- 
wood " referred to, 20_» Quoted, 94 note. 
A beetle in his ear, 9J mote. Joins the 
second expedition, 9_9_. Improvement in 
his health, L2JL Return journey, L52. His 
desmess and dimness of vision, 1 69. 
Leaves Kazeh for the north, 173. Re- 
turns, 204, His supposed discovery of 
the sources of the White Nile, 004, 
Taken ill at Hanga, 233, Convalescent, 
240. Sights the sea at Kouduchi, 279. 
Returns home, 384. 

Spears and assegais of the Wa*agara tril>e, 
L 232, Of the Wagogo, 30£L Of the 
Wahumba, 3J L Of the Wanyamu ezi, 
ii. 22. Of East Africa generally, 3QI. 

Spiders of East Africa, L 37 1 . In the 
houses of Ujiji, ii. 6_L 

Sport in East Africa, remarks on, L 268. 

Spring, hot, of Maji ya W'heta, L 159. 

Squirrels red, in K'hutu, i, 160. 

Stars, their splendour at the equator, L 1 63. 

Stares category of in Africa, ii. 1 29. 

Stat ionery required for the expedition, L 153. 



Hi.' 



JXDBX. 



Steinlueuser. Dr., L 2J. 

Storm in Uxaramo, L GSL Those of the 
rainy monsoon in Unyamwexi, ii. 2. On 
the Tanganyika Lake, description of a, 
122 

Succession and inheritance, in Unyamwczi, 
ii. 23. 

Sugar-cane, wild, or Gugu-mbua, L 7_L 

In Ujiji. ii. 58* Chewed, m 
Sugar made of granulated honey, L -107. 
Stiiya, antelope, L 269. 
Sulphur in Karagwah, ii. 185. 
Sultans, burial -places of, in Unyamwexi, ii. 

26. Power of the Sultan in this country, 

111 And in East Africa generally, ii. 362. 
Sun, his splendour at the equator, L 162. 

King-cloud tempering the rays of the, in 

Unyamweii, ii. L2. 
Suna, SulUn of Uganda, ii. 188. The Arabs' 

description of him, 189. His hundred 

?ons, 192. His chief officers, and mode 

of government, 192. Account of a visit 

to him, 193. 
Sunset-hour on the Indian Ocean, L L In 

the Land of the Moon, 387. In Unyam- 

wez«, ii. L In Ujiji, 8JL In East Africa 

generally. 2 HQ. 
Sunrise on the Tanganyika Lake, ii. 1 56. 
Superstitions of the Wamrima, L 3fL Of 

the Wagogoni, inland, 8JL Of the Wa- 

zaramo, 1 12. 114, 1 15. 
Supplies, shortness of, it. 130. Arrival of 

some, but inadequate for the purpose, 1 30. 
Surgery in East Africa, ii. 321^. 
Suwarorn, Sultan, his exorlitant black-mail, 

ii. 176. 

Swallows in Unyamweii, ii. LL 

Swords in East Africa, ii. 308. 

Sycomore tree of East Africa, the Mkuvu, 
its magnificence, L 193- Its two varie- 
ties, 195. 196. Its magnificence in Usa- 
g.ira, 229. 

Tailoring in Africa, ii. 201. 

Tamarind trees of the Usagara Mountains, 
L 1*>5. 22g. Modes of preparing the 
fruit, LG5. At Mfuto, 389. 

Tanganyika Lake, first view of the, descri- 
bed, ii. 42, 13. A boat engaged on the, 
45. Seen from Ujiji, 42. Hippopotami 
und crocodiles in, GO. People of the 
shores of, G2. et trg. Fishing in, GIL Va- 
rieties of fish in, §7, Failure of Captain 
Speke's expedition for exploiing the 
northern shores of, 20. Preparations for 
another crui«e, 23, Description of the 
boats of the lake, 24. Navigation of the, 
94. Voyage up the, 22. Eastern shores 
of the, described, 100. Fishing villages 
100. Remarks on boating ami voyaging 



on the lake, 101. Account of the idat d 
of Ubwari, 108. Visit to the island, 113. 
Further progress stopped, 1 17, 1 19. 
Storm on the lake, l'£L History of th.* 
lake, ii. 1 31 et seq. Meaning of the name, 
137. Extent and general direction of, 
1 37. Altitude of, 139. Sweetness of 
its water, 139. Its colour, 14Q. Its 
depth, 1 40. Its affluents, I4Q- Its 
coasts, 141. No effluents 141. Its tem- 
perature, 142. Its ebb and flow, 143. 
Ptiysical and ethnological features of its 
periplus 1 44. Sunrise scenery on the 
lake, Lifi. 

Targes of the East Africans described, ii. 307. 
Tattoo, not general amongst the VVaxaramo, 

L 108. Nor amongst the WaVhutu, 

1 JO. Practised by the Wadoe, 1 24 Of 

the Wanyamwcxi, ii. i_l_ Amongst the 

Wajiji, G3. Of the Warundi. 145. 
Teeth, chipped to points by the Wasagara 

tribe, L 235. 
Tembe, the houses beyond Marcnga Mk'- 

hali so called, L 201. Description of the 

Tembe of East Africa, 366. 
Tembo, or palm-toddy, a favourite inebrietit 

in Ujiji, ii. lO. 
Tenga, in Karagwah, ii. 1 77. 
tent-making in Africa, ii. 2ALL 
Termites of East Africa, L 201, 202. In 

the houses of Ujiji, ii. G_L 
Tctemeka, or earthquakes in Unyamweii, 

it. 13, 

Tberroomelers in Africa, L 169. 

Thiri, or Ut'hiti, district of, iu 215. 

Thirst, impatience and selfishness of, of the 
lialoch guard, L 205. African impa- 
tience of, 359: ii. 334. 

Thorns, nuisance of, on the road to Ugogo, 
L 24JL 

Thunder and lightning in Unyamwezi, ii. 2» 
In the Malagarazi valley, 50. In Ka- 
ragwah, ISO. 

Timber of East Africa, iL 415. 

Time, difficulty of keeping, by chrono- 
meters in East African travel, L 189. 
1 90. Second-hand watches to be pre- 
ferred, L2Q. 

Tirikeza, or afternoon march of a caravan, 
L 2Q3, 2iiL Incidents of one, 204, 2D5. 

Tobacco, trade of, in East Africa, ii. 418. 

Tobacco, use of, in East Africa, L 36, 
Smoked by women in Unyamwexi, 388. 
Chewed by Unyamwexi, ii. 28, Tobacco 
of Uganda, 196. Tobacco trade of East 
Africa, ii, 4 1 8. 

Tobacco-pipes of Eastern Africa, L. 38£ ; 
ii. 315, 

Toddy obtained from the palmyra of 
Mseue only, L 398. Extracted from 



IXDEX. 



the Guinea- palm in Ujiji, ii. 52. Pre- 
valence of the use of, in Ujiji, 59, 20. 
Of ZaiuiUar, 232. 

Togwa, a drink in Unyamwezi, L .in:?. 
And in East Africa generally, ii. 286. 

Tombs of thcWamrima and Wazaramo, L 57. 

Tools required for the expedition, L 1 3:1. 

Tramontane of the Rubeho, or Windy 
IW L 214. 

Travellers in Africa, advice t », ii. 82. Me- 
lancholy of which travellers in tropical 
countries complain, l^o. 

Travelling, characteristics of Arab, in 
Eastern Africa, ii. 157. Expense of 
travelling in East Africa, 229. 

Trees in East Africa. See Vegetation. 

Tree-hark used for clothing in Ujiji, ii. 64. 
Mode of preparing it, 64. 

Trove, treasure, Arab care of, L 23 ft 

Tumha Ihere, the P'hazi, L 54. His sta- 
tion, 62. Slave caravans at, 62. Ac- 
companies the expedition, 62^ 65. 

Tumbiri river of Dr. Krapf, ii. 217. 

Tunda, " the fruit," malaria of the place, L 
2L 

Turn, arrival of the caravan at the nullah 

of, L 291. And at the village of, 222. 

Astonishment of the inhabitants, 292. 

Description of, 313. Return to, ii. 241. 
Turmeric at Muinyi Chandi, L 390. 
Twanigann, elected Kiranguzi, ii. 239. His 

conversation, 24.1. 
Twins amongst the Wazaramo, L 1 16. 

Treatment of, in Unyamwezi, ii. 23* 
Tzetze, a stinging jungle fly, L. 1 87. At 

K'hok'ho.276. On the Mguuda Mk'hali, 

2S9. 



Ubena, land of, described, ii. 269. People 
of, 220. Commerce and currency of 
270. 

I'heyya, province of, ii. 1 33. 

Lbwari. island of, ii. 108. De Barros* 
account of, quoted, 1Q8- Size and posi- 
tion of, 1Q3. The expedition sails for, 
LL2. Inhabitants of, ILL Halt at, ILL 
Portuguese accounts of, 135. 

Uchawi, or black magic, how punished by 
the Wazaramo, L 1 13. Described, 2S5. 
Not generally believed in Ugogo, 3Q7. 
Mode of proceeding in cases of, ii. 32. 
i'eliefof the East Africans generally in, 
:u7. Office of the mganga, 33*;. 

Ufipa, district of, on the Tanganyika Lake, 
L LiL Its fertility, 135. People of, L52. 

Ufyoma, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. G. 

L'gaga, delay at the village of, L 408. 410. 

Ugali, or flour porridge, the common food 



of East Africa, L 35. Of the Wanyam- 
wczi, ii. 29. 

Uganda, road to, ii. 181. Sultan of, and 
his government, 1 88. 

Uganza, arrival of the caravan at, L 407. 

Ugogi, halt of the party at, L 241. Abun- 
dance of provisions at, 241. Geography 
of, 242. People of, 242, Animals of, 
'2 12. Pleasant position of, 24IL Its 
healthiness, 243. 

Ugogo, tirst view of, from the Usagara 
mountains, L 220. 'Die plains of, reached 
by the caravan, 223. Scenery on the road 
near, 243. Black mad at, 252* Entrance 
into, 252. Description of the surrounding 
country, 25a, The calabash tree at, 260. 
Siroccos at, 260. Reception of the cara- 
van at, 2fiL Incidents of the march 
through, 26I-28C1. Roads from Ugogo 
to Unyamwezi, 2B_L Geography of 
Ugogo, 294. Boundaries of, 294. No 
rivers in, 225* Igneous formation of, 
295. Houses of, 296. Subsoil of, 296. 
Climate of, 222. Diseases of, 222. Vege- 
tation of, 29JL 3QQ Animals of, mm. 
Roads of, 302. Description of the tribes 
of, 303. Ixjdging for caravans in, S_5jL 
Return through, ii. 246. 

Ugoyye, district of, in Ujiji, ii. 53. 

Uhha, land of, now a desert, ii. £3_ Laid 
waste by the Watuta tribe, 76^ 23. 

Uhelic, march through, ii. 23Q. People of, 
231. 

Ujiji, Sea of. See Tanganyika, Lake of. 

Ujiji, town of, lodgings for caravans in, L 
354. Arrival of the party at the, ii. 46. 
Scene there, 42. Climate of, 50, 51. 
Boundaries of, 53. Villages and districts 
of, £3. Camping ground of caravans 
near, 54. Distance of Ujiji from the 
coast, and number of stages, 5JL History 
of the country, 5k Trade o»", 52_. Fer- 
tility of the soil of, 52. Bazar of, 52, 
Fa ma of, fiQ. Slave trade of, 6_L Prin- 
cipal tribes in, G2. Inconveniences of a 
hilt at, and of a return journey from, 24. 
Mode of spending the day at, 82. 

Uk;imi, depopulation of, L 8fL 

Ukaranga, or "laud of ground-nuts" on the 
Tanganyika Lake, arrival at, ii. 44. Boun- 
daries of, 52. Wretched villages of, £2* 
Apathy of the people, 52. Etymology of 
the name, 52. 

Ukcrewe, ii. 212. Account of, 212. 2 1 3. 
People of, jj 1 J. Commerce of, 211. 

Ukhindu, or brab-tree, L 4fL 

Ukona, reached by the caravan, i, 318. 

Ukungwc, village of, L 4o:>. 

Ukungwe, islands of, ii. 151. 



4G-I 



INDEX. 



Umbilical region, protrusion of th\ in the 
children of the Wazaramo, ii. ILL 

Unjuwwe, or Uvungwe, river, ii. 40^ 5jL 
Forded, 44L 

Unyanguruw we, settlement of, l 408. 

Unyangwira, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. 

Unyanyembc district, rice lands of the, L 
H JI. Aspect of the hind, 32L. Descrip- 
tion of it, 3'23 ; ii. Si Uoads in, L 3_2,L 
Its physical features, 3'2fi. Its villages, 
x->r,. History of the Arab settlements in, 
:',-.7. FohI in, 3^ 331— 334. Prices 
in, liHi 

Unyamwezi, or the Land of the Moon, L 
:ll:t. Arrival of the caravan in the, 3L4* 
lodgings for caravans in, 334. Geogra- 
phy of, ii. L Boundaries and extent of, 
2. Altitude of, 2. Hie country as known 
to the Portuguescit. Corruptions of the 
name, 2± 2* Etymology of the worJ, & 
L Barbarous traditions of its having been 
a great empire, 4. Portuguese accounts 
of its former greatness, 5. Its present 
political condition, 5. Its dialects 5. 
Provinces into which it is divided, 5. 
General appearance of the country, £L 
Its geology, (L Peaceful riir.d beauty 
of the country, "h Water and rice fields 
7_, Versant of Unyamwezi, M. Its two 
.seasons, S. Its rainy monsoon, 8 — 
The hot season, LL Diseases of the 
country, ]_}_, 13^ LL Whirlwinds and 
earthquakes, l_L LI Curious effects of 
the climate, LL Fauna of Unyamwexi, 
1.5. Uoads in, L2» Notice of the races 
of, 12. 

Unyoro, dependent, ii. 187. 

Unyoro, independent, land of, ii. 197. 
People of, L9JL 

Urundi, mountains of, L 409 ; ii. 4JL Ar- 
rival of the expedition in the region of, 
lOI. People of, 107, LLZ. Description 
of the kingdom of, LLL Governments 
of, 14.5. People of, LLL Uoute to, 
169. 

Uruwwa, the present terminus of trade, ii. 
147. People of, 147. Prices at, 147. 

Usagara mountains L 87, 159. 21 5. '297, 
225, Ascent of the, LG£L Halt in the, 
}C,l. Healthiness of the, 161. Vegeta- 
tion of the, llii. Water in the, 218. 
Descent of the countcrslope of the, iLLiL 
View from the. 22SL Geography of the, 
225, et seq. Geology of the, 22i Fruits 
and flowers of the, 2 28. Magnificent 
trees of the, 1'29 Water-channels and 
cultivation of the ground in the. 21LL 
Village of the, 221L Supplies of food in 
the, 223. Hoads of the, 230. Water 



for drinking in the, Q3Q. Climate of the. 

23_L Diseases of the, '233. The tribes 

inhabiting the, 2ILL 
Usagoxi, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. fi, 

March to, i. 405. Insolence of the men 

of, 4Q.5- Description of the town of, and 

country around, 405. Sultan and people 

of, 406. 
Usek'he, in Ugogo, L 222. 
Usenda, capital of the Sultan Kazembe, ii. 

14S. Trade of Usenda, LIB. 
Uscnge, arrival of the party at the clearing 

of, L 4Q7. 

Usoga, Land of, ii. 197. People of, 197. 
Usui, toad and route from Unyauyetnbe to, 

ii. 1 ?5 T Description of, 176. People of, 

\1C>. 

Usukama, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. 5. 
Usumhwa, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. (L 
Uukama, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. 5_. 
Utamb.ira, near Marungu, district of, ii. L5_L 
Ut'hongwe, country of, ii. 52. 
Utumbara, a province of Unyamwezi, ii. 6, 

L7JL People of 176. 
Uvinzi, lodgings for caravans in, L 354. 

Geogi aphy of, iL 1, 48. The two seasons 

of, a, 

Uvira, southern frontier of, reached by the 

expedition, ii. 1 13. 1 16. Sult:in of, 1 16. 

Blackmail at, L2£L Commerce of, 1 20. 
Uyauzi, land of, description of the, L "79. 
Uyonwa, principal village of Uvinza, ii. IB. 

Sultan Mariki of, 7JL Tents pitched at, 

161. 

Uyuwwi, Kitambi, sultan of, L 320. 

Uxaramo, the first district of, L 5_4» Fer- 
tility of, GfL. Wild animals of, OX 
Storm in, CD. Boundaries of the terri- 
tory .of, U>7. Uoads in, 3JLL Art of 
narcotising fish iti, ii. GJL lie-entered, 
27.5. 

Uzige, land of, described, iL 146. People 

of, 146. Uivcrs of, 146. 
Uxiraha; plain of, ii. 2fLL 
Uzungu, or White Land, African curiosity 

respecting, L '261. 

Valentine, the Goanese servant, sketch of 
his character, L L3L Taken ill, L 20a 
379; ii. 169 Cured by the tinctura 
Warburgii, 169. His reception by the 
Wagogo, 263. Sent to learn cooking, 
SR4. Suffers from ophthalmia, iPti. 
Mortally wounds a Wayfanya, ii. i_2L 

Vegetable* in East Africa, L 2Q1 ; ii. 283. 

Vegetation of — 

Btimani, road to, L iZi 
Dut'humi, L Hi. 

Eastern Africa generally, L 22fL 
Karugwah, ii. 1 80. 



INDEX. 



Kxtonga river, ii. 187. 
K'butu. L ILL 

Kingani river, valley of the, L £6± 69. 
Kiranga-Ranga, L GO. 
Kirira,i 395. 
Kiruru, L £*U» 
Kuingani, L 4JL 
Makata tank, L l£L. 
Mgeta river, L 166. 
Mgunda Mk'hali, L 252, 
Mrima, the, L lOlj 103, IQA. 
Msene, L 397. nott. 
Muhogwe, L 6JL 
Mitkondnknra mountains, L 1 
Murundusi, ii. '25D, 
Kufuta fiumara, L 168. 
- plains, L 180. 

Tanganyika Lake shores, ii. 1-11. 
The road beyond Marenga Mk'hali, L 
205. 

The road to Ugogo, L 24JL 

Tumba Hi ere, L 62. 

Ugogo, L 275, 299j 3QQ. . 

Ugoma, ii. 1 47. 

Ujiji, ii. 51l 

Unguwwe river, ii. 1£L 

Unyarawezi, ii. 6_. 

Usagara mountains, L 162, 165. 

Uvinsa in June, ii. 1G '1. 

Yombo, L 387. 

Zungomero, L l H. 
Veneration, African want of, ii. 33JL 
Village life in East Africa, described, ii. 
278. 

Villages of the Mrima, L 1X22. Of the 
WakTiutu, 121. A deserted village 
described, 1 Si Villages of the Usagara 1 
mountains, 22a. Of the Wahehe, 240, 
Of East Africa generally, 364. et $eq. 
In Unyamweii, ii. J. Of Ukaranga, 52* 

Vinegar of East Africa, ii. 288. 

Voandteia subterranea, a kind of vetch, L 
196. 198. 

i 

Wabembe tribe, their cannibal practices, 

ii. LLii 

Wabena tribes, L 304. Described by the 

Arab merchants, ii. 870. 
Wabha tribe, their habitat, ii. 7JL Their 

chief village, IS. Their personal appear • 

ance and dress, 7JL Their arms, 7JL 

Tlieir women, 7JL 
Wabisa tribe, habitat of the, ii. 1 50. Their 

dress, 150. Their manners and customs, 

L5Q» 

Wabwari, or people of Ubwari island, de- 
scribed, ii. LL& Women of the, UiL 

Wadoe tribe, their habitat, i, 122, Their 
history, 123, Their cannibalism, 121L 
Their distinctive marks, 124, Their 



arms, 124. Their customs, 12£. Sub- 
divisions of the tribe, 124. 

Wafanya, halt at the village of. ii. 1 06. 
Visit from the chief of, 1Q7. Blackmail, 
at, 107. Climate of, 107- Prices at, 107. 

Wafipa tribe, habitat of the, ii. L52. 'Their 
personal appearance, 153. 

Wafyoma race, described, ii. 176. 

Waganda races, described, ii. UhL Their 
language, 196. Their dress, 196. 

Wa<ranga, or priests, of Urundi, their 
savage appearance, ii. 145. See Mganga, 

Wagara, or Wagala, tribe, L 407. 

Wagogo, their astonishment at the white 
man, L 2ftL Habitat of the, 303, 3(>4. 
Extent of the country of the, 304* Com- 
plexion of the, 3Q4. The ear-ornaments 
of the, 304. Distinctive mark of the, 
304. Modes of wearing the hair, 3Q4. 
Women of the, 305. Dress of the, 3QS. 
Ornaments of the, 305. Arms of the, 

306. Villages of the, 305, Language 
of the, 30JL Tlieir dislike of tbe Wan- 
yamwesi, 307. Their strength of numbers, 

307. Not much addicted to black magic, 
307. Their commerce, 3_QfL Their 
greedi ness, 3Q8. Their thievish pro* 
penalties, 300. Their idleness and do. 
bauchery, 309. Their ill manners, 3Q9. 
Their rude hospitality, 310. Authority 
of the Sultan of Ugogo, 3 1 0. Food io, 
310. 311. 

Wagoma tribe, their habitat, ii. 147. 

Waguhha tribe, habitat of the, ii. 14 7. 
Lake in their country, 147. Roads, 147. 

Wahayya tribe, tbe, ii. 187. 

Wahehe tribe, their habitat, L 239. Their 
thievish propensities, 239. Their disten- 
sion of their ear-lobes, 239. Distinctive 
marks of the tribe, 239. Their dress, 
232, Their arms, 240. Their villages, 
flocks, and herds, 240. 

Wahba tribe, their country laid waste, ii. 76, 
2fl. Their present habitat, 22. Wabha 
slaves, 79. 

Wahinda tribe, account of the, ii. 219. 

Their habitat, 219. Their dress, 220. 

Their manners and customs, 220. 
Wahuma class of Karagwah, described, ii. 

181, LS2. 

Wah umba tribe, the bandit, L 203. Haunts 
of the, seen in the distance, 205. 

Wahumba, or Wamasai, tribe, ii. 21 5. 
Attack the villages of Inenge, L 213. 
Haunts of, 2>iLL Slavery among the, 30[>. 
Dialect of the, 31 1. Habitat of the, 311. 
Seldom visited by travellers, 311. Com- 
plexion of the. ii L Dress, manners, and 
customs of the, 312. Dwellings of the, 
312. Arms of the, 312. 



VOL. 1L 



II II 



INDEX. 



Wahumba Hills, L 295. '29:. 

Wajiji tribe, the, described, ii. <LL Rndc- 
nen and violence of, 6^ GiL Diseases of, 
f.H. Practice of tattooing amongst, 63_ 
Ornaments and dress of, 63, filt Cos- 
metics of, 6JL Mode of taking snuff of, 
6.5. Fishermen of the lake of Tangan- 
yika, 66. Ceremoniousness of the Wajiji, 
O. Absence of family affection amongst 
them, 6JL Their habits of intoxication, 

69. Power and rights of their sultan, 

70. Their government, 7_L Their com- 
merce, 7_L Prices in Ujiji, 22. Currency 
in, 7JL Musical instruments of the 
Wajiji, 9JS. Inquisitive wonder of the 
people, 12ft. Category of stares, 1 '_"<¦ 

W akaguru tribe, villages of the, L 163- 
Wakalaganza tribe, the L 4Qfi. Dress of 
the, 4Q6. 

Wakamba, the, a sub-tribe ofthe Wazaramo, 

L IDS. 

Wakarenga tribe, wretched villages of the, 
ii. 52. Their want of energy and civilisa- 
tion, 52. 74, 25. 

Wakatete tribe, habitat of the, ii. HQ. 

Wakimbu race, account of the, ii. UL 
villages of the, 1 9- Dress and character- 
istic marks of the, 20, Arms of the, 2LL 
Ornaments of the, 20. Language of the, 
20. 

Wakumhaku tribe, country of the, L 88. 
Wak'hutu race, the, described, L 97. The 

ivorv touters of, 9.2. Their territory, 1 19- 

Their physical and mental qualities, 1 20. 

Their dress, 120. Their drunkenness, 120. 

Their food, 120. Their government, 12_L 

Their dwellings, 121. 
Wakwafi tribe, slavery among the, L 300. 

Their untatneable character, 30?). 
Wall point, L 8, 

Wamasai tribe, slavery among the, L 309. 

Wambele, Chomwi la Mtu Mku, or Head- 
man Great Man of Precedence, i 156. 

Wambotwa tribe, habitat of the, ii. 149. 
Their government, 152. Their personal 
appearance, 152. Their manners and 
customs, 152. 

Wamrima, or 44 people of the Mrima," de- 
scribed, L Uk 32. Their chomwi, or 
headmen, hL Tlieir dress, 23. Their 
women, 34, Tlieir mode of life, 35. 
Their national characteristics, 3G. Their 
habits and customs, 32. Their tombs, 57. 
Wamrima caravans, description of, 3M. 
Hospitality of the people, 353. 

Wanguru porters, desertion of the, L 52. 

Wanyambo, the poor class of Karagwah, de- 
scribed, ii. iftg 

Wanyamwexi porters of the expedition, L 
143. Account of the Wanyamwczi tribe, 



ii. 20. Colour of the skin of the, 20, Ef- 
fluvium from their skins, 20. Mode of 
dressing the hair, 20. Elongation of the 
mamma; of the women, 2JL Mark of the 
tribe, 2L Dress of the, 21. Ornaments 
of the, 22. Arms of the, 22. Manners 
and customs of the, 23. Ceremonies of 
childbirth, 23. Of marriage, 24. Fu- 
nerals, 25. Houses of the Wanyamwezi, 
2?L I wanza, or public -house of the, 27. 
Food of the people, 28. Tlieir commer- 
cial industry, 22. Their language, 30. 
Cultivation of the ground, 30, 3J_ Sla- 
very amongst them, 31, 33. Government 
of the people, 3 1 . Notice of Sultan Fun- 
dikira, 3 1 . 32. Desertion of the porters, 
in L'gogo, 077. Their fear of the Wa- 
gogo, 307. Greeting of porters of the, on 
the road, 291 . 

Wanyika, halt of the party at the settlement 
of, L 407. Blackmail at, 407. 

Wanyora race described, ii. 197. 

Wap'bangara, the, a subtribc of the Wa- 
zaramo, L lnH 

Wapoka, country ofthe, ii. L53. 

Warburg's tincture, an invaluable medicine, 
ii. 169. 

Warori, their meeting with the caravan, 
ii. 251. The tribe described, 272. Their 
raids, 272. 273. Their personal appear- 
ance, 223. Dress and weapons, 223. 
Their rood and habitations, 223. 

Warufiji.or people of the Ilufiji river, L SO. 

Warudi tribe, ii. 215^ 219. 

Warugaru tribe, country of the, L 88. 
Their language, 89. 

Warundi tribe, noise and insolence of the, 
ii. 102. Tlieir inhospitality, 108. 117. 
Their habitat, 144. 'JTieir mode of go- 
vernment, 145. Their complexion, 145. 
Their personal oppcarance, 145. Their 
dress, arms, and ornaments, 143. Their 
women, 146. 

Wasagara tribe, thievish propensities of the. 
L 229. Villages of the. l£!L Those of 
Rumuma described, 198. Their orna- 
ments and arms, 199. Village of, on the 
summit of Kiibeho, 218. Villages of, on 
the slopes, 221. Their habitat, Co- 
lour of their skins, 934. Modes of wearing 
the hair, 234. Distension of the ear-lobe, 
235. Distinctive marks of the tribe, 235. 
Dress of the, 235. Arms of the, 237. 
Government of the, 238. Houses of the, 
366. 

Wasawahili, or people of the Sawahil, de- 
scribed, L 30. National characteristics of 
the, 3fi. Their habits and customs, 37. 
Caravans of, 344. 

Wasenze tribe, their habitat, ii. 1 47. 



Coo 



INDEX. 



4(>7 



Washaki tribe, the, ii '215. aio. 
Washenzi, or barbarians from the interior, 

L 18. Curiosity of, 324, 
Washenzi, M the conquered," or Ahl Maraim, 

the, L SO. 

Wasps, mason, of the houses in East Africa, 

L 37o. 

Wasui tribe, described, ii. 176. 

Wa.su ku ma tribe, their thievery, L 319. 

Punishment of some of them, 320, 321. 

Their sultan, Msimbira, 3 1 9-32 1 . 
Wasumbwa tribe, in Msene, L 395. 
Wasuop'hangd tribe, country of the, L 88. 
Watatura tribes, L 304 ; ii. 215. 220. 

Their habitat, 220* Recent history of 

them, 220. 221* 
Watches, a few second-hand, the best things 

for keeping time in East African travel, 

L loo. 

Water-courses, or nullahs, of East Africa, 
L 102. In the Usagara mountains, 229, 
2:30. 

Water in the Mrima, L 102. In the Usa- 
gara mountains, 218* Scarcity of, near 
Marenga Mk'bali, 203. Impatience and 
selfishness of thirst of the Baloch guard, 
2 0 . -7. In the Usagara mountains, 230* 
On the road to Ugogo, 247. Permission 
required for drawing, 252. Scarcity of, 
at Kanyenye, 2£5* Inhospitality of the 
people there, respecting, 282. Scarcity 
of, in Mgunda Mk'hali, 282. At the 
Jiwe la Mkoa, 282* At Kirurumo, 
289. At Jiweni, 289. On the march 
of the caravan, 3*59. In Unyamwezi, 
ii. 2. Of the Tanganyika Lake, its 
sweetness, 132* Want of, on the return 
journey, 239. 
Water-melons at Marenga Mk'hali, L 201. 

Cultivation of, 201. 
Wat'hembe tribe, the, ii. 154. 
Wat'hembwe tribe, habitat of the, ii. 149. 
Wat'hongwe trilic, country of the, ii L5jL 
Wat'hongwe Kapana, Sultan, ii. 154. 
Watosi tribe in Msene, L 32fL Their pre- 
sent habitat, ii. 185. Account of them 
and their manners and customs, L85. 
Watuta tribe, hills of the, L 408* History 
of, ii. 25j Their present habitat, 76. 
Their wanderings and forays, 76i 72* 
Their women, 22. Their arms, 22* Their 
tactics, 22. Their fear of fire-arms, 77. 
Their hospitality and strange traits 22. 
Their attack on the territory of Kannena, 
ii. 156. 

Wavinia tribe, L 407. Personal appear- 
ance and character of the, ii. 25. Arms 
of the, 25. Inhospitality of the, 22* 
Drunkenness of the, 25* 

Wavira tribe, civility of the, ii. 1 15- 



Wayfanya, return to, ii. 123* A slave 
mortally wounded at, 124* 

Wazaramo tribe, the, L 19. 

Wazaramo, or Wazalamo, territory of the, 
L 54* Visit from the Phazi, or head- 
men, L 54* Women's dance of ceremony, 
55. Tombs of the tribe, 57. Stoppage 
of the guard of the expedition by the 
Wazaramo, 20* Ethnology of the race, 
102, Their dialect, 102* Subtribes of, 
108* Distinctive marks of the tribe, 
108. Albinos of the, 102* Dress of 
the, 109* Ornaments and arms of the, 
1 10* Houses of the, 1 10* Character of 
the, 112. Their government, 113. The 
Sare, or brother oath, of the, 1 14. Births 
and deaths, 118. Funeral ceremonies, 
1 1 8, 1 1 2. " Industry" of tlte tribe, 1 1 2. 

Wazegura tribe, L 124* Their habitat, 125. 
Their arms, 125* Their kidnapping 
practices, 125* Their government, 125. 
Their character, L2G_ 

Wazige tribe described, ii. 146. 

Waziraha, a subtribe of the Wak'hutu, i* 
122. Described, 123. 

Weights and measures in Zanzibar, ii. 389, 
221* 

Weapons in East Africa, ii. 300. 
Weaving in East Africa, ii. 3Q9. 
White land, African curiosity respecting, L 

261. 

Whirlwinds in Unyamwezi, ii. Uj 13, 
Wife of Sultan Magomba, L 2fifL 
Wigo hill, L 93. L52, 
Wilyankuru,Eastern, passed through, L 390. 
Winds in Unyamwezi, ii.9_.LQ. In 

Central Africa, 50. Periodical of Lake 

Tanganyika, 1 43. In Karagwah, ii. L&U. 
Windy Pass, or Pass of Hubeho, painful 

ascent of, L 213. Village of Wasagara 

at, 218* 

Wine, plantain, of Karagwah, ii. 180. 

And of Uganda, 1 97, 
Wire, mode of carrying, in the expedition, 

L 145. As an article of commerce, 146. 15Q 
Witch, or mganga, of East Africa, L 3 SO. 
Witchcraft, belief in, in East Africa, ii. 347. 

Office of the mganga, 356. 
Women in East Africa, ii. 298, 330. 332, 
384* 

— ¦ of Karagwah, ii. 182. 

of the Wabu ha, ii. 28, 

Wagogo, L 304, 305. 310* 

¦ Wahehe, L 289* 

' Wajiji, ii. 62 — 64. 

Wak'hutu, i* 120* 

¦ Wamrima, L ]_6_* 34* 

Wanyamwczi, L 388. 3W, 

398 : ii. 2J_, 2:i. 2-1. 
Warundi, ii. in*. 



4i\S 



INDEX. 



Women of the Wasagara, L 234, 2:V». 

Wataturu, ii. 221. 

Watuta, ii. 77. 

¦ Wasaramo, L 55, 61, 63. 

110, 116. 1 1 K. 

¦ i "Lull'doo** of the Waoyamwcn, 

L 22L 

physicians in East Africa, ii. 323. 

¦ Dance by themselves in East 

Africa, L S61. 

Handsome, at Yombo, L 3K8. 

Slave-girls of the coast Arabs on 

the march up country, L 314. 
- ¦- The Iwanza. or publichouses of the 

women of Unyamwexi, ii. 22. 

Of the Wabwari islanders, ii. 1 1 A. 

Wood-apples in Unyamwczt, L 3is. 
Woodward, Mr. S. P., his description of 
shells brought from Tanganyika Lake, ii. 
102, note. 

Xylophagus, the, in East African houses, L 

370. 

Ycgea mud, i. £3. 

Yombo, halt of the party at, L 387. De- 
scription of, 387. The sunset hour at, 
387. Return to, ii. L6JL 
Yovu, river, ii. 257. 25JL Forded, 25JL 
Yovu, village of, described, L 3<H>. 

Zanzilmr, view of, from the sea, L L What 
the island it not, 2. Family, 2, 2, His- 



the end. 



LONDON : 

PII1TID »V 1FOTTKWOOD1 A * l> CO. 
M EW-ll REST pgriKK. 



tory of the word «' Zanzibar." 2JL Its 
geographical position, 22, Weakness of 
the government of, in the interior of the 
continent, 28. The eight seasons of, ii. 
8. Slave-trade of. 377. Troubles in. 
General trade of, Appendix to 

vol. ii. 

Zawada, the lady, added to the caravan. L 
2 1 0. Her services to Cape Spekc, ii. 
222. 

Zebras, in the Rufuta plains, L 183. At 
Ziwa, 25 1 . In Unyamwexi, ii. Li 

Zemxemiyah of East Africa, ii. 222. 

Zere, or guitar, of East Africa, iL 291. 

Zik el nafas, or asthma, remedy in Ea*t 
Africa for, L 9fi» 

Zimbili, halt of the caravan at, l U2IL De- 
scription of, 386. 

Ziw»,or the Pond, L 24-1. Water obtained 
from the, 25D. Description of the, 2.~> I. 
Troubles of the expedition at, 2iL 

Zohnwe river, L 1 72. 

Zohnwe settlement, L 173. Adventures of 
the expedition at, 1 78. 

Zungomero, district of, described, L 22. 
Commerce of, 2i. Attractions of, 9.>. 
Food of, 95 — 97. Cause of the ivory 
touters of, 22. Halt of the expedition at, 
L 12L Pestilence of, 127. 163. Fresh 
porters engaged at, 12S. Life at, 15fi. 
Return to, ii. 2<M. Departure from, 
27fi. 



ad by Google 



Digitized by Google 



I 



Digitize 




±3f 



Digitized by Google 



