About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/zanzibarcityisla02burt

--------------------------------------


ZANZIBAR;



CITY, ISLAND, AND COAST. 



BY 

RICHARD F. BURTON



IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. II. 



LONDON : 

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND. 

1872. 

[All Rights reserved.]



1 



MCZ L13RARY 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
CAMBRIDGE MA USA 



JOHN CUILnil AND ftOK, J'KJKTBUII. 



CONTENTS OF VOL. II. 



CHAPTER I. 

PA(iF. 

FROM ZANZIBAR TO MOMBASAH 1 

CHAPTER II. 

MOMBASAH OR MVITA 23 

CHAPTER III. 

VISIT TO THE KISULODI-NI MISSION HOUSE 47 

CHAPTER IV. 

THE PEOPLE OF MOMBASAH.— THE WaNYIKA TRIBE . . . . 75 

CHAPTER V. 

FROM MOMBASAH TO THE PANGA-NI RIVER 104 

CHAPTER VI. 



FROM PAXGA-NI TOWN TO TONGWE OUTPOST.— THE BALOCH GUARD 139 

CHAPTER VII. 

THE MARCH TO FUGA. — ASCENT OF THE HIGHLANDS OF EAST 
AFRICA.— PRESENTATION TO KING KIMWERE 183 



COXTEXTS. 



CHAPTER YIII. 

PAUl 

THE MARCH BACK.-THE HIPrOPOTAMUS" nrNT.-THE RETURN TO 
ZANZIBAR 2J2 

CHAPTER IX. 

VISIT TO SA ADANI, THE COPAL FIELD 260 
CHAPTER X. 

THE EAST AFRICA N i i l.MTION OF ISoT- lSi9 283 

CHAITER XI. 

To KILWA, THE END OP THE EAST AFRICAN EXPEniTIOX (1857- 18i0) 32« 
rHAITEH XII. 

CAPTAIN 8Pi:ki. ;J71 



APPENDIX I. 

NOTES ON (-"MM' f \i M vrn \T /\v/!('m; in nif ^i\i:s 



APPENDIX II. A. P. 

TIIF.RMOMETRIC OI1SERV.1TION8 IN E.\.ST AFRU A 42« 
APPENDIX II < 



APPENDIX III. 

OIWERVATIONS DURIXO A VOYAGE OF RESEARCn ON THE EAST 
Ct»A»T OF AFRICA 4M 



ZANZIBAR. 



PAET II. 

THE COAST AXD THE INTERIOR. 



ZANZIBAR. 



CHAPTER I. 

FROM ZANZIBAR TO MOMBASAH. 

Urbis ab angusto tractu qua vergit in Austrum, 
Planities vicina patet : nam caitera Pontus 
Circuit, exiguo dirimi se tramite passus. 

C. Claud, in Ruf. lib. 2. 348. 

On Monday, January 5, 1857, began our trial 
trip, which homely term was justly written 
large as ' tentative expedition,' by the then 
President of the Royal Geographical Society. 
But a stiff north-easter blowing dead in our 
teeth, the crew of the Riami would not wear 
round by day, and at night all showed a pre- 
dilection for the ' Safar klioriyah,' i. e. anchoring 
in some snug bay. Consequently the old tub, 
with knees and mast loose like a slaver's, did 
not make Kokoto-ni, the usual departure point 
from Zanzibar Island, till 7 a. m. on January 8. 

VOL. II. 1 



KOKOTO-NL 



Kokoto-ni ' (at or in) the pebbles,' is an 
anchorage 18.30 direct geographical miles from, 
and north with 3 miles east of, Zanzibar City. 
Pormed bv a bis^ht with a streamlet, and the Island 
of Tumbatu, with its little outliers, Manawamana 
and Popo (in Owen Moina and Benoth), this 
roadstead is rendered dangerous during the 
Azvab, or X. East monsoon, bv a heavv rollins: 
sea and a coral-bound lee-shore. The coast has 
the usual edging of saiul, clear as crystal, and of 
])rii,'lit screen mangrove, Avliilst an inntM* b(^lt of 
dark(M' jiiiiule (IcfiMids a country, li(M'(%-as every- 
whcn^ around, prodigiously Irrtili^ gnvMi, ami 
monotonous. Tlic intciior is a in:iss of cultiva- 
tion, manioc ami swcu^t potato (Jezar) from ^fa- 
dagascar, super!) mangoes and cocoas waving in 
tlic clear sca-l)reeze, and limes and oranges, the 
latt(M- disj)()sed, as l)y the Paraguayans, in long 
rows, which, at a distance, imitate th(» tca-ficld. 
Clove plantations adorn the n})lands, and the 
giant Calabash (Adansonia digitata) stretches its 
stumj)y, crooked arms over the clustering huts. 
The treci is at onc(» majestic and grotesque; the 
tall conical column of spongy and j)orous wood, 
covered with a soft, glossy rind, which supplies 
hair Africa with l)ast, will have a girth of forty 
to fifty feet, far exceeding the ccdnrs of T.e- 



KOKOTO-NI. 



3 



banon, whilst tlie general aspect is that of a 
giant asparagus. Like the arbutus, some trees 
will be bare, others in leaf, and others in flower, 
all at the same season. When thickly clothed 
with foliage growing almost stalkless from the 
wood; topped with snowy blossoms, like the 
fairest and lightest of water-lilies, and hung 
about with four or five hundred gourds ; ovals 
somewhat larger than a cocoa-nut, dressed in 
green velvet with the nap on, and attached by a 
long thin cord, like tassels which wave with 
every breath of the zephyr, its appearance is 
striking as it is novel. Nothing, in fact, after 
the negro can be more typically and distinctly 
African. 

Escorted by Said bin Salim and his slave, we 
visited the village Mwanda. It is the normal 
collection of cajan-thatched huts, with wattle 
and dab walls, gathering round a little Mosque 
and grave-yard. There are no stone dwellings, 
but scatters of such hovels extend far and wide. 
The settlement was mostly tenanted by women 
who hid themselves, by children who ran away, 
and by slave-girls who squatted, combing and 
plaiting one another's locks ; these grinned mer- 
rily enough, having nought to fear. The faces 
were hideous to look upon, with black, coarse 



4 



AGRICULTURE, 



skins, scarred and seamed by small-pox; huge 
mouths, and rolling eves. Not a few were lame 
and toothless, and the general dress was the 
ungraceful swaddle of blue, checked or indigo- 
dyed stuff. Presently we were addressed by an 
old man, carrying a spear, and attired in Arab 
fashion, of red cap, loin-cloth (Futali), and Tobe 
(Taub), or shoulder-scarf. Taking us for traders, 
who came to buy cocoa and cloves, he placed a 
Kitandali (cot) under the central calabash, the 
gossip-place of the village, and brought us cocoa- 
nut-water, which here takes the place of cof- 
fee. In vain wo offered high prices for meat ; 
geese, ducks, and fowls, however, were abund- 
ant. 

After a short rest we set out northwards, to 
inspect the plantations. Most of the men were 
at work in their Mashamba ; the weeds had 
been burned for manure, the primitive manner 
of restoring nutrition to the soil, and the peasant, 
with his rude implements, was smoothing the 
lowlands for paddy. Already tlie light sliowcrs 
of the Azyab had flood(»d the ground, and the 
stagnant stream whicli we forded was choked 
with rush and sedge. A * Tell,* or dwarf rise, 
was occupied by a farm belonging to the late 
Sayyid; here wc were again seated and supplied 



FOUL WEATHER. 



with mangoes. This fruit, curious to say, would 
never fall upon the Prince's head, although his 
courtiers often suffered severe contusions — at 
least, so we were assured. 

After a long walk, which crippled my naked 
arms and legs with sunburns, we returned to the 
shore, and Said complaining, with a visage like 
Falstaff's ' wet cloak ill-laid up,' that never before 
had he endured such fatigue, we signalled the 
Riami for a boat. It was five hours coming, 
the wind blew off shore, and we had some trouble 
in persuading certain Tumbatu men to carry off 
the party of six in a monoxyle, a single log of 
wood, propelled by a scarf. A few dates and a 
dollar sent them back happy, and the Eiami had 
used her time well in washing decks and taking 
in water. 

The Aveather now set seriously against us. 
The thermometer fell some 5° (F.), and heavy 
showers, mostly in the morning, wetted us clean 
through, despite all precautions. Lightning 
from the N. West appeared; the 'egg of the 
cloud ' showed the focus of electric matter, and 
tornados, exactly resembling those of the Guinea 
coast, made the crew down sail, and satisfy 
themselves with one knot an hour. They had a 
peculiar style of keeping watch ; all sat up sing- 



6 



THE GREEN ISLAND. 



ing till 10 — 11 p. M., after wliicli every man 
slept as unanimously. The only water was poor 
Said, who with red eyes and peeling nose suf- 
fered crispations when the squalls came on. 
About 9 A. M. (January 10) we sighted for the 
first time Pemba, the Emerald Isle of these 
Eastern Seas ; and after three days' stumbling 
over 33 miles from Kokoto-ni, Pemba channel, 
with the hills of the Mrima clear on our left, 
appeared at 3 p. m. To the right rose the tree- 
grown banks, and the verdant coral-ledges, which 
have given a name to the Green Island of the 
Arabs. Except from the mast-head it is in- 
visible at an offing of 12 miles, this forest-clump 
emerging from the blue and buoyant wave, and 
therefore it was neglected by the Periplus. In 
A. ij. 1G98 the bold buccaneer Captain Kidd here 
buried his blood-stained hoards of gold and 
jewels, the plunder of India and of the further 
Orient. The people have found pots of ' nug- 
gets,' probably intended for buttons, in order 
that the pirate might wear his wealth. Thus it 
is that the modern skipper, landing at Mada- 
gascar, or other robber haunts of the older day, 
still frequently witnesses the disappearance of 
his brass buttons, whilst the edge of a knife 
resting upon his throat secures the quiescence 



CHAK-CHAK TOWN. 



7 



essential to the rapid performance of the opera- 
tion. 

The complicated entrance to Chak-Chak, or 
Shak-Shak as the Arabs call it, the chief port, 
fort, and town, has that silent, monotonous, 
melancholy beauty, the loveliness of death, 
which belongs to the creeks and rivers of those 
regions. The air was pure and sparkling ; a 
light breeze played with the little blue waves ; 
the beach, wherever it appeared, was of the purest 
golden hue, creamed over with the whitest of 
foam; and luxuriant trees of the brightest green 
drooped from their coralline beds over a sea, 
here deeply azure, there verdigris coloured by 
the sun shining through it upon a sand-shoal. 
But animated nature was wanting : we heard not 
a voic3, we saw no inhabitant — all was pro- 
foundly still, a great green grave. A chain of 
islets forms the approach to a creek, below all 
mangrove and black vegetable mud, which 
stains the water, and bears roots up sticking 
like a system of harrows ; above on both sides are 
rounded swelling hillocks, crowned with the cocoa 
and the clove. We sailed about on various tacks, 
and near sunset w^e anchored in the outer port, 
four or five miles distant from the town. On 
a wooded eminence rose the white walls and 



8 



FORT CHAK-CHAK. 



the tall tower of Fort Chak-cliak, standing 
boldly out from its dark green background, and 
apparently commanded by higher land, nowhere, 
however, exceeding 150 feet, while the spars of 
an Arab craft peered above the curtained trees. 
With the distinctest remembrance of Indian 
rivers, my companion and I could not but 
wonder at the scene before us. 

Early on the next morning we manned the 
Louisa, and rowed slowly through a gate, formed 
on the right by Ra'as Kululu, and on the 
left by a high plantation Ea'as Banhani. It 
led to a broad, deep basin, where two or three 
Sayas, small Arab vessels, not wishing to approach 
the town, lay at anchor. After a couple of hours, 
during which progress was of the mildest, we 
entered a narrow creek, bordered by a luxuriant 
growth of mangroves. The black and foetid sea- 
ooze, softer than mud, which supports these 
forests of the sea, contrasts strangely with the 
gay green of their folinge, and the place was 
haunted l)y terns, grey kingfishers, and liawks 
of black and white rol)e, big as the ' Ak-baba,' 
and said to be game birds. Here and there a 
tall man paddled a tiny canoe, and an old slave 
woman went to catch fish with a body-cloth, 
used as a net : she sugi^ested the venerable com- 



FISHING. 



9 



parison of the letter S mounted on 'No. 11.' The 
old Arab geographers seem to have been struck 
by the piscatorial peculiarities of these coasts. 
El Idrisi (1st climate, 7th section) informs us 
that ' the people supply themselves from the 
sea without craft or without standing upon the 
shore. They use, whilst swimming or diving, 
little nets which they themselves make of woven 
grass ; they tie them to their feet, and by 
slip-knots and lashings held in their hands, 
they draw fast the snare when they feel that a 
fish has entered it. All this they do with ex- 
ceeding art and with a cunning bred by long 
experience: they also teach land reptiles to 
drive their prey ' — possibly the iguana. 

The tide, which hereabouts rises from twelve 
to thirteen feet, was then rapidly ebbing. At 
high water large boats run up under the walls 
of Chak-Chak ; during the ebb the creek 
within several yards of the landing-place is a 
quaking bog, which receives a man to his waist. 
After three hours of persistent grounding, and 
nearly despairing to reach our mark, a sharp 
turn showed us the fort almost above our heads : 
we disembarked and waded up to the landing- 
place. 

Ascending the sea-slope, I was struck, even 



10 



FERTILITY. 



after Goa and Zanzibar, by the wondrous fertility 
of the land. All that meets the eye is luscious 
green ; cocoas, jacks, limes, and the pyramidal 
mangoes grow in clumps upon the rises ; 
the wild solanum with bright yellow apples, 
and the castor shrub, rich in berries, spread 
over the uncultivated slopes ; excellent rice, of 
which the Island formerly paid tribute, clothes 
the lowlands, and the little fields bear crops of 
holcus and sesamum, vetches as Thur (Cajanus 
Indicus), Mung (Phaseolus radiatus), and Ghana 
or Gram (Cicer arietinum), with manioc, and 
many species of garden-stuff and fruit-trees, 
esj)ecially oranges aiul citrons. The eternal 
humidity — pani jo ghano sukh, say the Ban- 
yans — unfavourable to human, fosters vegetable 
development in a luxuriance more oppressive 
than admirable. After a few minutes' climb we 
entered Chak-Chak, which, like a Brazilian 
country-town, consists of one long narrow lane. 
It is formed by square huts of wattle and dab, 
raised upon platforms of tamped clay : each 
tenement has a ' but ' and a * ben,' and most are 
fronted by a deep verandah, where poultry, 
fruit, and stale fish are exposed for sale by many 
familiar faces hailing from Ilindostan. 

My first visit was to the Wall or Governor, 



OUR RECEPTION. 



11 



Mohammed bin Xasif bin Khalaf. In bis absence 
at Zanzibar, we were received by his brother 
Sulayman, who lay upon his bed shaking with 
fever : the house was like its neighbours, and 
the verandah was partly occupied by a wooden 
ship's-tank. We then took refuge against the 
sun at the shed called Place of Customs, 
where we were duly welcomed, whilst cloves 
were being weighed by the slaves. The Collector 
of government dues was a nephew of Ladha 
Damha, this Pisuji was at the head of some ten 
Bhattias : they are readily distinguished by 
red conical fools' caps, and by their Indian 
Dhotis, or loin-cloths. His reception was far 
more cordial than it would have been in his 
own land, where Banyans are by no means 
famous for hospitality to the Mlenchha, or out- 
caste. We determined him to be an exceptional 
man, but afterwards, on the coast, we received 
the same civilities from all the Hindu and 
almost all the Hindi (Moslem) merchants. Pisu 
reproached Said for not landing us last night, 
seated us on cots, and served upon a wooden 
tray sliced mango and pineapple, rice, ghee, 
and green tea. An old Sindi tailor, Pakir Mo- 
hammed, son of a petty officer who had served 
as a Turkish gunner in Yemen, brought a hot- 



12 



PISU. 



tie, and invited us to carouse with ' wuh safed/ 
that white one — probably gin. Our refusal to 
taste it did us good service with the Sherif 
Mohammed, a Hazramaut man, educated in 
Sind, and chief of the 25 to 30 Indians who com- 
pose the little colony. We were visited by the 
Jemadar, Musa Khan, who commands a score 
of Baloch mercenaries, readily distinguished by 
close-fitting lips and oval heads in this land 
of muzzles and cocoa-nut skulls. They greatly 
admired our weapons, specially my basket-hilted 
Andrea Perrara, the gift of an old friend, Archi- 
bald McLaren, and one young fellow volunteered 
to accompany us up country. The AVasawahili 
were the least civil ; they heard that certain 
Miizungu Kafirs liad visited their town, and 
came to stare accordingly. 

The good Pisu sent for our casks, and Imd 
them filled from the Mto-ni, Ijehind the fort. 
This streamlet, some 15 feet broad aiul armpit 
deep, supplies water far superior to tliat of the 
wells and the brackish produce of the sands near 
the anchorage ground. Finally, he accompanied 
us, with the chief notables, to the landing-place, 
and sent us off in his own boat, which he had 
loaded with rice and fruits. 

Pemba is an irregular coralline bank, com- 



PEMBA. 



13 



posed of some 15 or 20 smaller items, covered 
with the richest vegetable humus. It is, in fact, 
an archipelago growing up into an island. Like 
Zanzibar, it is a low bank perched upon the 
summits of submarine mountains, which rise 
from depths not yet fathomed. Its extreme 
length is 42 miles, from Ra'as Kigomathe (Kego- 
matchy of Owen), the N. West point in S. lat. 
4" 47', and Ea'as Msuka (Said Point), in S. lat. 
5' 29' 30''. The long narrow steep varies in 
breadth from 2 to 10 miles (Owen), between E. 
long. (G.) 39° 39', and 39° 48', to which 5' must 
be added since Bombay^ and the Cape of Good 
Hope have been found to be placed that much 
too far west. Ha'as Kigomathe, the point near- 
est the mainland, is separated from it by Pemba 
Channel, here 19 to 20 miles broad, and the 
greatest width is 35 miles. The western sea- 
board, where calmer waters under a lea land 
favour the labours of the polypus, is evidently 
advancing rapidly, and here the coast-line is 
notably broken compared with that of Zanzibar 

^ The new system of electric signals has again altered the 
position of Bombay, which is placed now in E. long. (G.) 
72° 48' 4". Before that invention the difference between Lon- 
don and Paris varied from 2° 20' 15" to 2° 20' 24". In 1854 
M. Le Verrier determined it from 200 observations to be 
2° 20' 9.45." 



14 



PEMBA. 



and with its own eastern or windward coast. In 
this point it resembles Jutland, Iceland, and 
Norway, where the S. West, a prevalent wind, 
tears to pieces the occidental shores, and deposits 
the debris upon the leeward half. The reefs and 
shoals, branching in all directions, but especially 
westward, are still unexplored, and every ship 
that sounds does new work. The height of the 
Island nowhere exceeds 180 feet, and the soil is 
purely vegetable. The streamlets are not worth 
mentioning, and the general unimportance of the 
long narrow bank unfits it for representing the 
Menouthian depot. 

A strong current runs between Zanzibar and 
Pemba, carrying ships northwards sometimes at 
the rate of 50 miles per diem. The principal 
settlement, Chak-Chak, is built upon a deep 
inlet on the western coast, where the Island is 
narrowest. The distance is some 17 direct geo- 
graphical miles (or 25 by course) north with 
easting from the southern Cape, and the ap- 
proach is winding and difficult. The most ob- 
jectionable part of the Green Isle is its climate. 
No man here is in rude health, laming ulcers 
on the legs exactly resembling syphilitic sores, 
stomach pains, and violent indigestions afflict 
new comers : hydrocele is a plague, and the 



PEMBA. 



15 



population is decimated by small-pox, dumb 
agues, and bilious fevers. 

In its palmy day many Portuguese, mer- 
chants and soldiers, settled at Pemba upon large 
plantations, and with the abundance of water and 
provisions, amongst which cattle are specified, con- 
soled themselves for the insalubrity of the atmo- 
sphere. At the end of the sixteenth century, when 
that celebrated corsair the Amir Ali Bey had 
raised the coast, the ' Moors ' of Pemba revolted 
against their Shaykh, and murdered the foreign 
settlers — men, women, and children. The chief, 
with a few fugitives, took refuge in Melinde, and 
was speedily restored to his own by the Captain- 
Major Thome de Souza Coutinho, brother of the 
Viceroy of India. He was again expelled shortly 
after a.d. 1594 ; and this time he retired to 
Mombasah, became a Christian, and married a 
Portuguese orphan : he eventually visited India 
with D. Prancisco da Gama, who also pro- 
mised to restore him, and the promise seems to 
have been kept. In December, 1608, the Island 
was visited by Capt. Sharpey, en route to India, 
and the treacherous Europeans persuaded the 
' Moors ' to attack his crew, after inveigling them 
on shore by a show of hospitality. Hence the S il- 
lanies of Pemba ' became a proverb on the coast. 



16 



PEMBA. 



A steep path, a yellow streak on the dark 
green ground, leads np to the Port, which, situ- 
ated heyond the settlement, commands the creek 
and landing-place. It is evidently an old Por- 
tuguese building. The frontage is a loop-holed 
curtain of masonry, flanked on the right by a 
round tower — a mere shell — and on the left by a 
square turret, pent-housed, with cajan mats. A 
few iron guns, honeycombed to the core, lie 
around the walls ; the entrance is dilapidated ; 
and the place, now undergoing repairs, is like 
most ' Forts ' in these regions, about as capable 
of defence as the castled crag of Draclienfels. 
Hearing the people of Pemba call it, as at Mas- 
kat, ' Gurayza,' evidently a corruption of Igreja, 
and now meaning a combination of fortress and 
jail, I inquired about Portuguese ruins, and 
heard of two deserted churches, in one of which 
a bit of steeple is still standing. The Lusita- 
nians, in later times, long made the Green Isle 
one of their principal slave-depots : even in 1822 
their ships traded regularly to Chak-Chak. I 
did not visit the ruins, which are said to be dis- 
tant one day's march : there is nothing to in- 
terest man in the relics of the semi-barbarous 
European rule. The Island also boasts of a 
single mosque. The Pemba men pray at home, 



TY 

c 



SUPPLIES. 



17 



and they are said to pray little. The population 
is held to be half that of Zanzibar, upon less than 
two -thirds, perhaps only one -half, of the area ; 
but this appears a considerable exaggeration. 

Pemba supplies her bigger sister-isle with a 
little excellent ghee and poor rice. The principal 
exports are cocoas and cloves ; and here, as every 
where along the coast, cowries are plentiful. 
Bullocks, reared on the island, cost from §6 to 
§10; sheep, brought from the mainland, $3 to $4 ; 
and goats, which are rare and dear, from $7 to §9. 
Cash is evidently not wanting. Powls are sold 
at 20 to 23 for $1 — half the price of Zanzibar, — 
and eggs are very cheap, two or three being pro- 
cured for a pice. The people complain that this 
year all provisions are exceptionally dear. The 
Banyans, who make Pemba their head- quarters, 
demand high agio for small change, giving only 
111 pice for the German crown, whereas 128 is 
the legal rate at the capital. They also regulate 
the price of provisions according to the Zanzi- 
bar market. They have different weights and 
measures — the Kaylah, for instance, is greater — 
and, as usual in these regions, they keep the 
gross amount of exports and imports a profound 
secret. 

Our gallant captain of the beard—' the Lord 

VOL. II. 2 



18 



THE BAD DATS. 



have mercy upon him for a hen ! ' — determined 
to doze away the day, and to pass a snug sleepy 
night, anchored in some quiet bight. His crew 
also, although living upon Jack fruit, and sup- 
plied with only two skins of fresh water, grumbled 
exceedingly when I ordered a Spoj^o^ vu^&7][j,s^og. 
For a whole day they had tacked about the creek 
and basin till the shades of evening fell, and 
force was required to keep the canvas aloft. 
Presently, when running out of Pemba, grave 
doubts and misgivings about the wisdom of the 
proceeding came over me as the moonless night 
fell like a pall, and, exaggerated by the dim 
twinkling of the stars, rose within biscuit-toss 
the silhouettes of islet and flat rock, whence pro- 
ceeded the threatening sounds of a ' wash.' 
Soon, however, emerging from the reefs, we smelt 
sea air, and we felt with pleasure the throb of 
the Indian Ocean. 

During the three days that followed our 
patience was sorely tried. The sky was now 
misty, hiding the shore, so that sometimes we 
went south instead of north ; then the spitting 
deepened to heavy rain, whilst the thermometer 
stood at 83" (F.). The Azyab or N. East wind, 
high and contrary, blew great guns, and a strong 
current set clean against us. The combing sea, 



HARD LINES. 



19 



with waves raised some five feet, was most un- 
pleasant during the long moonless nights : on 
this coast there are more shoals and coralline 
reefs than harbours, and the lee-shore, within a 
few yards of which we Avere periodically drifted, 
was steep to, with rocky banks and bars. Marin- 
ers rarely sail by night, except before a fair and 
steady wind, and in the open roadsteads they are 
ill-defended from the strong N. East monsoon. 
We long sighted the two high hummocks called 
Wasin Peaks, and we were compelled to ride at 
anchor off Gasi Bay, the strained old Biami 
creaking at every timber, and rolling gunwales 
under. Pleasant scenes were the rule. Mutton- 
livered Said, groaning and weeping, started up 
every half-hour during that ' black night,' and 
screamed with voice altered by violent flesh- 
quake, till he makes us all nervous as himself. 
The captain, sitting on the Zuli (deck), cried, 
Pill ! Pih ! — wind ! wind ! — asked what could 
be done, and more than once, as we were driven 
on towards a reef, definitively declared the Piami 
lost. The sailors, green and yellow with hard 
work and himger, tacking out with the Barri 
(land breeze), and in with the Azyab, would not 
bale except under the stick. The iron boat 
sinking once, and twice snapping her painter in 



20 



THE BOAT LOST. 



the long rolling sea, gave ns abundant trouble. 
At last, as a thick cloud veiled Jupiter and A^e- 
nus, a cry arose that she had again broken loose ; 
and we resolved to make Mombasah, trusting 
that Fate would restore her. More than once 
we thought of landing, and of walking along 
the shore to our destination : for if all was un- 
pleasant outside the ' Beden,' the inside, with its 
atmosphere of cockroaches, bilge water, and 
rotting wood, was scarcely more attractive. 
Hitherto, from the moment of our leaving Eng- 
land, the expedition had met with little but ill 
luck. 

At length, on January IGth, after long and 
wistfully gazing, as the mist rose, at the three 
conical heads, which the Portuguese call * Cor6a 
de Mombasa,' and when almost despairing of 
reaching them, the wind suddenly became favour- 
able, and we were driven round lla'as Betani into 
the land-locked harbour, right joyful to cast 
anchor opposite English Point, and to pass the 
quiet night of which we had disappointed our 
crew at Pemba Island. 

The run into Mombasali was truly character- 
istic of Africa. The men hailed us from afar with 
the query, 'What news?' We were unmer- 
cifully derided as Whites by the black nymphs, 



MOMBASAH. 



21 



bathing in the costume of Camoens' Nereids. 
And the sable imps, sunning themselves upon 
the white sand, shouted the free-and-easy Mu- 
zungu — ' Europeans ! ' 

I was not a little astonished at the first sight 
of this 'indomitable village,' whose history is 
that of the whole East African coast. Can this 
paltry settlement have been the capital of the 
King of the Zing, concerning whom Arab travel- 
lers and geographers have written such marvels ? 
Is this the place whose stubborn patriotism and 
turbulent valour rendered her for nearly two 
centuries a thorn in the side of the Portuguese ? 
that gave them more trouble than all the 2000 
miles of shore ? that allowed herself to be burnt 
three times to the ground, and that twice suc- 
ceeded in massacring an enemy whom she had 
failed to expel ? Can this miserable village have 
produced heroes, the Samson-like Ahmad bin Mo- 
hammed ; the generous and chivalrous Abdullah 
bin Ahmad, and Mubarak, whose daring valour 
displayed during the war against Sayyid Said, 
still lives in popular song ? Of the second 
named a storv is told, which mi^ht belonsr to the 
knightly days of Europe. During the siege of 
Lamu, where, by-the-by, he lent his shoulders as 
a scaling-ladder to his father's soldiers, the young 



22 



ABDULLAH BIN AHMAD. 



chief received a poulet from a fair friend, con- 
taining these words : ' I hear that under our 
walls is a person named Abdullah ; if he be the 
man 1 love, he will not remain so near me with- 
out claiming my hospitality ! ' To hear was to 
obey. The Mazrui, taking his trusty sabre, proved 
himself capable of the perilous enterprise, and 
after returning to his father's camp, he sent a 
slave to the governor with the simple message: 
* Last night I slept in Lamu, and right soon I 
will sleep in it with all my men.' 



C . 



CHAPTEE II. 



MOMBASAH OR MVITA.^ 

'Est autem urbs ilia sita intra sinum quemdam in rupe 
praecelsa et edita. Fluctus cum se ab introitu sinus incitant, 
in adversam frontem urbis incurrunt. Inde deducti introrsus 
penetrant et utrumque latus urbis alluunt ita, ut peninsulam 
efficiunt.' — Osoeto, describing Mombasah. 

From early ages the people of this inhospit- 
able coast left untried neither force nor fraud, 

^ This Kisawahili name is usually written by the Arabs 
* Mfita.' Dr Krapf prefers ' Mwita,' and remarks that the 
' Wamwita,' together with remnants of 11 other tribes, repre- 
sent the original inhabitants of Mombasah. The natives would 
also pronounce Mombasah as Mombasa ; and indeed so it is 
written by Ibn Batuta (chap. ix.). The silent terminal aspirate 
of the Arabic and Persian becomes in Kisawahili a long a, e.g. 
Ndild, a coffee-pot, from the Arabic Dallah and Darisha, a 
window, from the Persian Daricheh. The translation of El 
Idrisi (Climate I. sect. 7), gives Manisa two days from Me- 
linde, evidently a conception of Mvita. Capt. Hamilton (India, 
chap, i.) unduly contracts it to ' Mombas,' and this seems to be 
the cacography adopted of late years. 



24 



MOMBASAH-MEN. 



neither secret treachery nor open hostility, to 
hinder and deter Europeans from exploration. 
Brihed by the white and black ' Moors ' — Arab 
and Wasawahili — then as now monopolists of 
the interior trade, Yasco da Gama's pilots at- 
tempted to wreck his ships. In later years the 
Banyans, becoming the chief merchants of this 
coast, excited against travellers the half-caste 
maritime races, as usual the worst specimens of 
the population ; these in turn worked upon their 
neighbours, the sanguinary savages of the in- 
terior, who, in addition to a natural fear of every- 
thing new, cherish old traditions of the white 
man's piracy and kidnapping. In 1826 the brig 
Mary Anne was a§;saulted near Berberah and 
her crew was massacred by the Somal at the insti- 
gation, according to Lieut. Wellsted (Travels in 
Arabia, chap, xviii.), of the Banyans, who certain- 
ly withheld all information by which the attack 
could have been prevented or repelled. In 1844 
a combination, secretly headed by Jayaram, the 
Collector of Customs at Zanzibar, so effectually 
opposed Lieut. -Colonel Ilamerton that, unable to 
hire a vessel on the Island, he crossed over to the 
Continent in a launch borrowed from the Sayyid 
and manned by his own boat's crew. Now, how- 
ever, the increased number and power of the 



MOMBASAH TOWN. 



25 



European houses, the greater facility of commu- 
nication, the presence of our ships in these ports, 
and the more settled state of the Dominion, have 
convinced Arabs, Banyans, and Wasawahili, that 
it is vain to kick against the pricks in European 
shape. Yet they yield unwillingly, knowing that 
exploration will presently divert their monopoly 
into other channels, and, quoting the Eiwayat or 
rhymed prophecy, that sovereignty shall depart 
from them w^hen the Pranks' first footstep shall 
have defiled the soil. Even in our time (1857) 
travellers should consider the countenance of the 
Sayyid's government a sine qua non, and unless 
marching in great force or prepared for universal 
bakhshish, they should never make their starting- 
point any port distant from head-quarters. 

The town of Mombasah, still called ' Mwita,' 
meaning fight or battle, is mentioned in a.d. 
1331 by the Shaykh Ibn Batuta, as a large place 
abounding in fruits, and peopled by a ' chaste, 
honest, and religious race.' Two centuries after- 
wards the site is thus described by the Colto e 
buon Luigi — as Camoens was termed by the 
amiable Tasso. 

The isle before them stood so near the land, 
that narrow was the strait which lay between ; 
a city situate upon the strand 
was on the seaboard frontage to be seen : 



26 



MOMBASAH. 



with noble edifices fairly planned 

as from the offing showed afar the scene ; 

ruled by a king for years full many famed, 

the isle and city were Mombasah named.^ 

In J oao de Barros and others we read attractive 
details of beautiful gardens, lofty towers, a har- 
bour full of ships ; of handsome men and of 
honourable women habited in silk robes and 
adorned with gold and jewels ; of the ' knights 
of Mombasah,' which now can hardly show a 
head of horse, and of the 'ladies of Melinde,' 
where the plundering Gallas have left only heaps 
of ruins. The King, 'for years full many famed,' 
received his first Portuguese visitors with pecu- 
liar empressement, and with the kindly purpose 
of cutting Vasco da Gama's throat, enticed him 
to land by promises to furnish wax, wheat, am- 
bergris, ivory, and precious metals,^ and by send- 

* In the original — 

Estava a ilha a terra tao chegada 

Que humo estreito pequeno a dividia ; 
Huma cidade nella situada 

Que da fronte do mar apparecia ; 
De nobres edificios fabricada 

Como por fora ao longe descobria ; 
Eegida por hum Eei de antigua idade, 
Momba9a he o nome da ilha e da cidade. 

LusiAD, i. 103. 

^ In 1823 the Arabs informed Capt. Boteler ' that in some 
rivers in the vicinity gold in small quantities was at times pro- 



THE FRANK. 



27 



ing samples of spiceiy — pepper, ginger, and cloves 
— apparently all imports, as Calicut Banyans and 
Christians of St Thomas were upon the spot. But 
when the great Captain's ship weighed anchor 
to enter the port, she struck upon a shoal pro- 
bably at the southern end of the channel formed 
by ' Leven Beef Head ' and the mainland : the 
' Moors ' tumbled into their canoes, the Mozam- 
bique pilot took a header from the stern, and an 
ugly plot stood forth in its nakedness. To make 
certain, Da Gama of the ' awful eyes ' extracted 
the truth from his Moslem captives by ' heating 
lard and dropping it upon their flesh : ' unable, 
however, to revenge himself, he set sail for 
Melinde. 

And here we may explain how arose the con- 
tempt and hatred which the coast has attached 
to the word Paranj, or Eeringhee. The Orient 
became acquainted with Europe at a time when 
the Portuguese were slavers and robbers in the 
Lord's name, when the Dutch were second-rate 
traders, and when the English were rank ' salt- 
water thieves.' Vasco da Gama did not hesitate 
to massacre all his prisoners, or to decorate his 
yard-arms with wretches suspended like the cap- 
cured ' (Narrative of a Voyage of Discovery, &c., vol. ii., 
chap. i.). 



28 



THE FRANK. 



tives of ' Sallie rovers.' Albuquerque's soldiers 
hewed off the hands and feet of women and chil- 
dren, the quicker to secure their rings and armlets. 
Torture and cruel death, especially wholesale 
burning, fell to the lot of Moslems and Pagans. 
In the seventeenth century even the command- 
ers of the Hon. East India Company's ships, 
according to Delia Yalle, committed robberies 
ashore and on the high seas; The ' Grand 
Mogul' regarded our people as a race 'of dissolute 
morals and degraded religion ' — tetrse belluse, 
suis molossis ferociores. 

In A.D. 1500 Mombasah yielded to D. Alvarez 
Cabral, and, three years afterwards, the Captain 
Eavasco settled its tribute. On August 13, 1505 
— events succeeded one another rapidly in those 
brave old times — D. Erancisco de Almeyda, the 
first viceroy of Portuguese India, who had been 
gravely insulted by the turbulent citizens, attack- 
ed with his 20 ships, captured and burnt it. The 
Sultan was admitted to the honours of vassalship 
and tribute ; stringent regulations were made, and 
the conquest having been placed in the first of 
the three provinces of Ethiopia and Arabia, with 
Mozambique as the general capital, the govern- 
ment was confided by the king, in a.d. 1508, to 
D. Duarte de Lemos. In 1516 Mombasah is 



HISTORY, 



29 



described by Duarte Barbosa as a well-built, 
wealthy, and flourishing place, which exported 
honey, wax, and ivory. It was again attacked 
by D. Xuno da Cunha, who was bent upon aveng- 
ing the insults offered to his allies, the chiefs of 
Zanzibar, Melinde, and Atondo. The Sultan de- 
fended himself stoutly, introduced into the city 
5000 black archers, and armed a fort with cannon 
taken from Portuguese ships : the women and 
children were sent to the mainland, and a system 
of sorties and surprises was organized, which pro- 
tracted the affair from November 14 to March 
3, 1529. At length D. Xuno, after destroying 
the houses and cutting down the palm trees, set 
fire to the place, and burnt it to the ground. 
These active measures secured peace for some 
years. In 1586 the Turkish corsair, Ali Bey, 
persuaded Mombasah to place itself, Hke Makdis- 
hu, Ampaza, Lamu, Kelifi, and Brava, under the 
Sultan of Stambul. D. Duarte de Menezes, vice- 
roy of India, sent from Goa a fleet of 18 ships, 
under Martim Affonso de Melo Bombeyro, who 
revenged the insult by burning Mombasah the 
third time. 

Tradition asserts, contrary to received opinion, 
that the Conquistadores penetrated far into the 
interior, and common sense suggests that soldiers 



30 



INLAND RUINS. 



SO adventurous would not confine themselves to 
the seaboard. The Wasawahili speak of a ruined 
castle on Njuira, a hill north of the Pangani 
river, and placed by M. E^ebmann 160 miles from 
the ocean. At Chaga, a district west of Mombasah, 
whose apex is the well-known and much-vexed 
Kilima-njaro or Kilima-ngao, stone walls, a breast- 
work for cannon, and an image of a long-haired 
woman seated upon a chair and - holding a child, 
are reported still to remain. The Wanyika, or 
' Desert people ' of the Mombasah E;ange, have 
preserved in their Kayas, or strongholds near 
Rabai Mku, certain images which they declare 
came from the west. According to Dr Krapf, 
these statuettes, called Kisukas, or little devils, are 
carried in war processions to encourage the com- 
batants. No European has ever seen this ' great 
medicine,' nor has any Chief ever dared even to 
propose showing them to the mission : whenever a 
European evinced more pertinacity than was 
pleasing, he found the bushes upon his path brist- 
ling with bow and spear, and capped by the 
woolly mops of the sable Roderick Dhu's clans- 
men. 

* And every tuft of broom gave life 
To nigger warrior armed for strife.' 

Iconolatry is unknown to these tribes, and the 



IDOLS. 



31 



savages probably derived their Kisukas from some 
civilized race. According to Andrew Battel, of 
Leigh, the English captive at Angola (a.d. 1589), 
the Jagas, or Giagas,^ did not worship, but had 
small images in their towns, and a life-sized figure 
of a man called Quesango. As a rule, however, 
especially in the non-maritime regions, the negro's 
want of constructiveness and of plastic power 
prevent his being an idolater in the literal sense 
of the word : he finds it more convenient to make 
a god of 'grass or palm-leaves and broken pieces 
of calabashes, to which feathers of foAvls are fast- 
ened by means of blood.' ^ 

^ The racial name of these wandering Lestrigons, so for- 
midable to the Portuguese in the 16th century, and taken 
from a title of honour, ' Captains of warlike nomades,' is thus 
confused by Prichard (Natural History of Man) : ' In 1569 
the same people are said to have been completely routed on 
the Eastern coast, near Mombasa, after having laid waste the 
whole region of Monomotapa.' He may have heard of the 
Highland of Chaga, whose people, however, call themselves 
not Wachaga, but "VVakirima — • mountaineers. Or he may 
have knowQ that the Portuguese inscription over the Fort 
Gate at Mombasah declares that in a.d. 1635 the Capitao 
Mor, Prancisco de Xeixas e Cabrera, had subjugated, amongst 
others, the King of Jaca or Jaga. Jaca is also mentioned by J. 
de Earros (ii. 1, 2). M. Guillain (vol. ii. chap, xxii.) makes 
' Chaka' a town between Melinde and the mouth of the Ozi 
river. "We find ' the Jages, Anthropophagos,' in Walker's Map, 
No. 4, Universal Atlas, 1811. 

'•^ Messrs J. Schon and Samuel Crowther's Journals with the 
Niger Expedition of 1841. London, 1842. 



32 



HISTORY. 



The important depot was again attacked in 
1589 by a savage host from the south, called by- 
contemporary historians, ' Zimbas : ^ the city was 
taken by the savages; and after plunder and 
massacre, it was again occupied by Thom^ de 
Souza Coutinho. In 1592, according to the 
Mombasah Chronicle, Shaho bin Misham, its last 
Shirazian Sultan, was succeeded by Ahmad the 
Shaykh of Melinde. Two years afterwards a fort 
was built by order of the Viceroy Matthias 
d' Albuquerque, and in 1596 D.Erancisco da Gama 
re-established the Portuguese rule. If we may be- 
lieve the Dominican monk Joao dos Santos, who 
was present during the war waged with the 
Monomotapa about the mines of Chicova, the 
conduct of the European foreigners was ' outrage- 
ous and unreasonable,' and it soon led to the 
usual consequences. The first deadly blow 
against the conqueror was struck by Yusuf bin 
Ahmad, alias Dom Jeronymo Chingoulia, the 
Nana Sahib of the Eastern Coast. A son of 
Ahmad, the first Melinde Sultan of Mombasah, 

1 Dos Santos calls the Commander * Muzimbas.' Duarte 
Barbosa mentions sub voce Zimbaoche, a great village seven 
days' journey from Benametapa. De Barros identifies it with 
the Ptolemeian Agyzimba, and describes it as a royal residence 
of the Emperor Benomotapa. It is the Zumbo of Dr Living- 
stone. 



HISTORY. 



33 



he was sent at an early age to Goa, under the 
charge of Augustine monks, with orders to bring 
him up in the true religion; he was baptized in a.d. 
1627, and, after writing a submissive letter to the 
Pope, he was permitted to return home, and was 
imprudently promoted to the chieftainship in 
August, A.D. 1630. The convert began by making 
Moslems eat pork, and by similar demonstrations 
of zeal. When all suspicions were laid at rest, 
Yusuf, no longer Jeronymo, collected 300 sa- 
vages, entered the fortress in order to visit its 
commander, Pedro Leitao de Gamboa; and at a 
given signal stabbed the latter with his own hand, 
whilst his followers killed the captain's wife and 
daughter, together with the priest, who was say- 
ing mass. The surviving Portuguese barricaded 
themselves for a week in the Augustine convent, 
but opened the doors when the young Sultan 
promised to spare their lives. He at once caused 
all the wretches to be arrowed, and the holy 
buildings to be profaned and destroyed. Brave 
as he was cruel, he defended during three months 
his city against a large fleet and armament sent 
by the Viceroy D. Miguel de Noronha, Count 
of Linhares ; he beat off Erancisco de Moura, and 
having captured two Portuguese vessels, he dis- 
mantled the citadel, burnt the city, destroyed the 

VOL. II. 3 



34 



HISTORY. 



trees, and escaped with his ' Pandis ' to Southern 
Arabia. 

Fatal example ! Mombasah thus learned 
that Europeans were easily conquered. The 
wasted island was re-occupied by the Portu- 
guese, and the citadel was repaired in a.d. 1635. 
But after 'Hormuz and Maskat had fallen into 
the hands of the Persians and the Arabs, the 
Yurabi Imam of Oman, Sultan bin Sayf, be- 
sieged Mombasah about a.d. 1660, and, after five 
years' investment, captured only the fort. His 
son and successor, Sayf bin Sultan, whose squad- 
ron was aided by the noble Arab tribe Mazrui, 
and by the dependent Wasawaliili, again at- 
tacked the Portuguese, recovered the fort, mas- 
sacred its defendaiits, and established an Arab 
governor. This decisive event took place on the 
9th of Jemadi el Akhir, a. h. 1100 (December 
14, 1698), a date celebrated in many a local 
ballad. 

I have sketched the modern history of Mom- 
basah when chronicling that of Zanzibar. Sayyid 
Said, wiser than the Portuguese, secured his 
conquest by the Tarquinian operation of striking 
down all the tallest growth. Por our temporary 
protectorate Capt. Boteler is the best authority, 
and since a.d. 1837 the place has no name in the 



HISTORY. 



35 



annals of the coast. The traveller, as well as 
merchant, must lament that we abandoned its 
cause ; had England retained it, the interior 
would long ago have been opened to us. This 
lament may seem strange in the days when we 
propose to give up Gibraltar, as we have given 
up Java, Sicily, and the Ionian Islands — con- 
quests hard won by blood and gold, and parted 
with for a song. 

The harbour of Mombasah is spacious and 
land-locked; without exception, the best on the 
Zanzibar coast. Its magnificent basin is formed 
by one of those small coralline islands which, 
from Suez to Cape Corrientes, have long been 
the centres of commerce with peoples who, 
brutalized by barbarism, and incapable of civil- 
ization, would have converted mainland depots 
into scenes of rapine and bloodshed. Of this 
chain the principal links, the Tyre, the Alex- 
andria, and the Araduses of East Africa, are 
Masawah, old Zayla, Berberah — in the 16th cen- 
tury an islet — Makdishu, Lamu, Wasin, ancient 
Mtanga, Pemba, Zanzibar, Mafiyah, the original 
Kilwa, and Mozambique. The island is a mass 
of coralline, that forms scarps and dwarf cliffs, 
45 to 60 feet high, everywhere except on the 
west, where there is a tongue of sand, and where 



36 



GEOGRAPHY. 



the level ground is covered with the fertile 
humus of decayed vegetation; the shape is an 
irregular oval, about 3 miles long by 2| broad, 
and this flat surface is capable of growing the 
richest produce. The soil, excessively permeable 
and bone-dry after a few hours following the 
heaviest downfalls, allows neither swamp nor 
bog. Eastward, or outside, there is good riding- 
ground defended on both sides by reefs ; inside 
a double sea-arm moats the islet in every direc- 
tion from the coast. This channel of coral-rag and 
oyster-rock, about 280 yards wide at the mouth, 
broadens northwards into a deep and secure 
basin, Captain Owen's^ Port Tudor, so called 
from the officer who surveyed it, and westward 
of the islet is Port Reitz, a longer and a wider 
water. Vessels usually lie under the town 
opposite English Point, where they find safe 
anchorage. In the South- West monsoon, how- 
ever, between May and September, square-rigged 
ships must be warped out, and in so doing they 
run some risk of being wrecked. 

On the N. West Point, where a little battery 
commanded the jiassage, Mombasali Island is 
separated from the mainland by a shallow 
ford, and possibly this canal may be artificial. 
^ A plan of the Island was published by Kezende in 1635. 



GEOGRAPHY. 



37 



Here I should be inclined to place the New 
Eosse^ of the Periplus, and to identify, as do 
Vincent and Stuch, the Pyralaon Islands, with 
Pemba, Zanzibar, and Mafiyah. M. Guillain, 
by a careful calculation of distances, would 
transfer the site further north to the natural 
channel between Patta, Mandra, Lamu, and the 
mainland. But whilst errors of numerals are 
easily made, and readily copied in manuscripts ; 
and whilst mistakes of distance can easily be 
accoimted for, it is hard to believe that the 
Phoenician, Egyptian, and Greek merchants 
would have neglected the finest harbour and the 
best site for trade upon the whole Azanian 
shore. Moreover, there is nothing in the text 
to prevent the Pyralaon Islands being those off 
the Benadir, and the Posse being about the 

1 In the edition of Charles Muller (Pains, 1845) the word 
Kaivrjc disappears, and the sentence becomes /cat ttjc; Xeyo^f j t/c 
litjpvxoe, ' and the so-called fosse.' Certainly the term ^iw()v^ 
would suit the Mombasah Canal better than the Channel of 
Patta, and the former is the only ' digging ' where liuman 
labour can possibly have been applied. Thus Pliny (v. 3) ex- 
plains the name of the city Hippo Diarrhytus, ' from the chan- 
nels made for irrigation.' That the scanty population of Arabs 
at ancient Mombasah was incapable of excavating a canal 600 
metres long is no proof that the work was not done. The 
Sultan of Mombasah could bring into the field 5000 wild 
archers, and, similarly, in the Brazil the most astonishing 
works were effected by a handful of Portuguese, assisted by 
hordes of Tupy savages. 



38 



LANDING PLACE. 



modern ford of Mkupa on the west of the Island 
of Mombasah. 

Said went on shore as the anchor ran out, 
and presently returned, accompanied by Lakh- 
midas Tliakurdas, the Banyan Collector of Cus- 
toms, with a civil 'message from the Jemadar, or 
Eort Commandant. Other visitors were Hari, a 
young Bhattia, speaking English learned at 
Zanzibar, and a certain Basliid bin Salim, a 
captain's clerk, whose son is commanding a 
Kisawahili caravan in the Ukamba-ni country. 
With tliem we landed at a natural jetty in the 
N. Eastern front of the town, and where the 
dents of cannon-balls mark the position of a 
battery. Hence we ascended the cliff by a 
flight of steps in a dark dwarf tunnel, which is a 
reminiscence of the English. Eurther to the 
N. West is the wharf, constructed in 1825 by 
Lieut. Emery, and near it vessels generally lie. 
The tunnel opens upon the Mission House, a 
double-storied box of coarse masonry ; the ground- 
floor belongs to Sayyid Said, and Shangora, the 
Msawahili 'care-taker,' duly supplied the key. 
To the right and left were other similar tene- 
ments, all more or less dilapidated, and the 
S. Eastern point was occupied by a small Cus- 
tom House painfully whitewashed. 



MOMBASAH TOWN. 



39 



We are now in the Gavana (i. e. Govenio), 
at present the Arab town, as opposed to the 
Mji wa Kale, Harat El Kadimeh, the ' old 
quarter/ the Black Town of the Portuguese. 
The site of the former is a dwarf rise at the 
S. Eastern and seaward edge of the Island, and 
it faces to the N. East, where over the pure blue 
channel orchards and verdure and wells of pure 
water commend the mainland as a villeggiatura. 
The form of the settlement is a parallelogram 
running N. West to S. East, and it was separated 
from the Black Town by a wall 10 to 12 feet 
high. This, under the Mazrui Shaykhs, was re- 
paired and provided with a few bastions ; be- 
tween the Gavana and the citadel, however, a 
defensive work was not judged necessary, and 
now — an excellent sign — the rampart is rapidly 
falling to ruins. Here are the tombs of the local 
heroes who made Mombasah a historic name, 
and under a shed repose the remains of the 
Mazara governors, beginning with Mohammed 
bin Usman. The tombs are of masonry, and 
are distinguished by bearing epitaphs, which are 
somewhat in the style of prayers recited before 
the graves of Walis at Meccah and El Medinah. 
Amongst them is the sepulchre of Khuwaysah 
bint Abdillah, a woman apparently with a soul, 



40 



MOMBASAH TOWN. 



for Allah is begged to ^make her home Paradise, 
with the best of its inmates.' 

The materials of the Gavana are brown thatch 
huts, clustering round a few one-storied, flat- 
roofed boxes of glaring lime and coral rag, 
equally rude within and without. On the 
N. West lies the ' native ' half, which prolongs 
the Arab quarter beyond the enceinte; this 
suburb is wholly composed of sun-burned and 
wind-blackened hovels, forming a labyrinth of 
narrow lanes. Outside the faubourg clusters a 
thicketty plantation of cocoa and fruit trees ; 
here was the favourite skirmishing-ground be- 
tween the Sayyid's troops and the Mazrui de- 
fenders of the city. Mombasah is, as far as 
Nature made her, pleasing and picturesque, but 
man has done his best to spoil her work. A 
glorious 'bush,' a forest of tall trees, capped by 
waving palms, laced with Uianas, and studded 
with shady mangoes, thick guavas, and fat ba- 
obabs, here forming natural avenues, there scat- 
tered as in a pleasure-ground, overspreads the 
vicinity of the town, whilst the more distant 
parts to the West, S. West, and N. West, are 
dense wild growths, virgin, as it were, and still 
sheltering the monkey and the hog, the hyaena 
and the wild cat. The presence of man is known 



RUINS. 



1 

41 



only by some wretched hut, or by a dwarf 
Shamba-plot of meagre cultivation. 

We inquired for the tomb of the Eesident, 
Lieut. John James Reitz, who died whilst ex- 
ploring the Pangani river, and was buried here 
in 1823. The site was once a church, but it has 
been turned into a cattle-yard by the Banyans, 
and now it enjoys the name of Gurayza ya 
Gnombe (bullock church). Besides some fine 
old masonry-revetted wells, still supplying the 
best water, the only traces of the Portuguese and 
the ' twenty churches of Mombasah ' are ruins of 
three desecrated fanes, especially the Gurayza 
Mkuba (great church), the Augustine convent 
which lies in the north-eastern part of the Gavana. 
It is not to be compared for interest with the Jesuit 
remains upon the Rio de Sao Prancisco. The 
people no longer show, as in 1824, the heap of 
masonry under which, says Boteler (ii. 1 — 20), 
they had buried the Moslems who fell during the 
second massacre of the Portuguese. I did not 
see the pillar or obelisk and the ruined fort to 
the S.S. East of the citadel, shown in Captain 
Owen's chart. The Gurayza Mdogo is near the 
Augustine convent, and has now all the sem- 
blance of a dwelling-house. The battery or citadel, 
built by the Portuguese in 1594, and repaired in 



42 



THE FORT, 



1035, lias been so much altered that it is now 
an Arabo-Msawaliili construction. Its position 
is excellent, outside and S. East of the Gavana, 
pointing to the N. East, with complete com- 
mand, at a distance of 600 fathoms, over the 
narrow northern entrance, and wanting only a 
reform in the batteries a fleur d'eau, and clearing 
out the interior of sheds and forage, to be a 
match for all the fleets of Arabia. Originally a 
quadrangle, some 120 yards square, with 4 bas- 
tions facing the cardinal points, it was sunk 
below the level of the coralline rock, which thus 
forms the footing of the walls, and which sup- 
plies a broad, deep moat. According to the 
Mombasali chronicle, the stones were brought 
ready cut from Portugal : the phrase is ' Do 
Eeino,' which Capt. Owen has rendered ' from 
E^ainu,' and elsewhere is commemorated 'The 
Sultan of Eainu.' The S.S. Western is the 
strongest side, whence a land attack might be 
expected : the other flanks are rich in dead 
ground, and the N.N. West front protects the 
Gavana. My sketch of the north-eastern face, 
taken from the Mhoma-ni Shamba, on the 
opposite side of the creek, shows a picturesque 
yellow pile, with tall, long, and buttressed cur- 
tains, which appear slightly salient, enclosing 



THE FORT. 



43 



towers studded with perpendicular loopholes ; 
three tiers of fire opposite the entrance to the 
northern harhour ; a place d'armes : a high don- 
jon with a giant flag-staff, conspicuous for 5 or 6 
miles from the south, and sundry garnishings 
of little domes and luxuriant trees, some even 
growing out of the wall cracks. 

Hearing that strangers are admitted to the 
Eort — Mrs Eebmann has often visited it — I 
proceeded to the head- quarters of the Jemadar. 
Arrived at the land gate leading to the inner 
Barzeh or vestibule, my attention was directed 
to the Portuguese inscription before alluded to. 
It is half defaced by the Arabs, but this is of the 
less consequence as copies have been published 
by Captains Owen and Guillain.^ At the angles 
of the western and southern bastions are also 
scutcheons in stone bearing the names Baluarte 
Sao Eelippe and Baluarte Alberto. That to the 
north was called Baluarte Sao Matthias (from Mat- 
thias de Albuquerque), but here, as on the south 
side, the inscriptions have disappeared, probably 
by the fire of the enemy. A sentinel at the gate 

^ Owen (i. 404, 405) sketches and transcribes it very in- 
correctly. Gruillain (vol. i., Appendix, p. 622) has done his 
work better. In vol. i., p. 442, however, he gives the name of 
the governor as ' Sexas e Cabra ' — the latter by no means com- 
plimentary. 



44 



THE FORT. 



waved his hand and cried, Sir ! Sir ! (go ! go ! ) ; 
but I persisted in sending for the Jemadar Tan- 
gai, who took my hand and led me towards a 
shed of leafy branches, some 15 paces outside the 
Port. Here, he assured me, the Sayyid himself 
used to faire anti-chambre ; but I could see only 
hucksters and negroes. We parted in high dud- 
geon, nor did we ever become friendly. Said bin 
Salim, who during this scene had remained be- 
low and afar off, showed us the chief mosque — 
there were eight when Lieut. Emery visited the 
town^ — and a formless mass of masonry, which 
marks the last resting-place of some almost for- 
gotten heroes.^ 

The climate of the Island is hotter, healthier, 
and drier than that of Zanzibar. The rains begin 
with storms in early April, or before the setting 
in of the S. West monsoon. They are violent in 
May, and from that time they gradually decrease. 
Between December and March there are a few 
showers, for which the cultivator longs ; and, as 
may be imagined in an island ever subject to the 
sea-breeze, the dews are exceptionally heavy. 
The people suffer little from dysentery and fever : 

^ Short account of Mombas and the neighbouring coast of 
Africa, by Lieut. Emery, E. N. Journal Royal Geographical 
Society, vol. iii. of 1854. 

2 This may, however, be the pile spoken of by Boteler. 



CLIMATE. 



45 



Europeans, however, complain that they are 
never free from the latter. The endemic com- 
plaint is a sphagadenic nicer upon the legs and 
parts most distant from the seat of circulation. 
Here, as in Ahyssinia, in Yemen, in the Hejaz, 
and at Jerusalem, the least scratch becomes an 
ugly wound, which will, if neglected, destroy life. 
The cause may be found in the cachectic and 
scorbutic habit induced by the want of vegeta- 
bles and by brackish water ; the pure element 
is, indeed, to be found in the old wells beyond 
the town and on the mainland ; but the people 
save trouble by preferring the nearer pits, where 
water percolates through briny coralline. The 
town has suffered severely from epidemics, small- 
pox, and what strangers call the plague. The 
citizens still remember the excessive mortality of 
1818, 1832, and 1835. At Mombasah I heard 
nothing about the curious influence which the 
climate is said to exercise upon cats, causing a 
sandy-coloured fur to be exchanged for ' a coat 
of beautiful short Avhite hair ' ; and producing, 
according to others, complete baldness, like the 
Uemedio dogs of the Brazil and the Argentine 
Republic. 

Mombasah, as has been seen, trades with the 
Wanyika for copal, Avith the people of Cliaga 



46 



TRADE. 



and TJkamba-ni for iyory, and with the inner 
tribes generally for hippopotamus' teeth, rhi- 
noceros' horns, cattle, cereals, and provisions. 
Slaves are brought from Zanzibar, natives of the 
country about and south of Kilwa being pre- 
ferred. The imports are chiefly cottons, glass, 
beads, and hardware. There is no manufac- 
turing industry, except a few cloths, hand-made 
in the town. Besides Harar, Mombasah is the 
only tropical African city which boasts an in- 
digenous coinage. During the wars with Say- 
yid Said, the Mazrui chief, finding a want of small 
change, melted down a bronze cannon, and con- 
verted it into pieces a little larger than our six- 
pence. The bit, which bears on the obverse the 
name of Mombasah, whilst the reverse assures 
the owner that it is ' money,' was forcibly circu- 
lated, and the value was established at an equiva- 
lent to the measure (Kibabah) of Maize. Since 
the fall of the Mazara this purely conventional 
coin has fallen into disuse, and I was unable to 
find specimens of it. 



CHAPTER III. 



VISIT TO THE KISULODI-NI MISSION HOUSE. 

Tremolavano i rai del sol nascente 

Sovra I'onde del mar purpuree e d'oro, 

E in vesti di zaffiro il ciel ridente, 

Specchiar parea le sue bellezze in loro. 

D 'Africa i venti fieri e d'Oriente, 
Sovra il letto del mar prendean ristoro. — TASSO^fi. 

Leaving directions with Lakhmidas to land 
and lodge our cockroacli- gnawed luggage, and 
deputing Said bin Salim, supported by our two 
Portuguese servants and his three slaves, to 
protect it, we set out on the morning after 
our arrival to visit M. Rebmann of the ' Mom- 
bas Mission ' at Esulodi-ni, his station. Before 
the sun gained power to destroy the dewy fresh- 
ness of dawn, we slowly punted up the northern 
sea-arm which bounds the Mombasah islet : in our 



48 



THE JOURNEY. 



heavy ' dau ' — here all the lesser craft are so 
called — manned by two men and a small boy, 
we justified the stern Omar's base comparison 
for those who tempt the sea, 'worms floating 
upon a log.' Whilst threading the channel our 
attention was attracted by groups of market 
people, especially women, who called to be 
ferried across. On the part of our crew the 
only acknowledgment was an African modi- 
fication of Marlow Bridge, far-famed amongst 
bargees. Sundry small settlements, bosomed 
in thick undergrowth, relieved by brabs, cocoas, 
and the W-shaped toddy-tree, appeared upon 
each ' adverse strand.' After a two miles' pro- 
gress, lame as the march of civilisation at S'a 
Leone, we entered Port Tudor, a salt-water 
basin, one of the canals of Mombasah Bay, 
about two miles broad, and in depth varying 
from one to fifteen fathoms. Broken only by 
the ' llock of Bats,' and hedged on both sides 
by the water-loving mangrove, it prolongs itself 
towards the interior in two tidal river-like chan- 
nels for about ten miles, till stopped by high 
ground. The northern is named ' Water of the 
Wakirunga,' and the north-western 'Water of the 
Babai,' from tribes owning the banks. Captain 
Owen has christened them respectively William 



THE 'TUACA' RIVER. 



49 



Creek and River Barrette, after the officers who 
aided in his survey. Similarly, Port Reitz, to 
the south-west, projects a briny line called 
' Water of Doruma' — the region which it drains — 
and receiving the Muache, a sweet rivulet that 
flows from uplands 20 to 30 miles from the 
coast. Such in nature is the Tuaca, or Nash 
river, which defaces our maps. It is a mere 
confusion with Mtu Apa, the ' E/iver Matwapa ' 
of Captain Owen, a village and a little runnel 
five miles north of Mombasah. Lieut. Emery 
mentions the 'hamlet of Mtuapa, situated at 
the entrance of a small river, which runs ahout 
sixteen miles into the country.' Like the Cuavo, 
or great ' Quiloa river,' a salt-water inlet re- 
ceiving during the rainy season the surface 
drainage of a seaward slope, the ' Tuaca' becomes 
a noble black streak, dispensing the blessings 
of intercourse and irrisration athwart three 
inches of white paper. The presence of such 
rivers must always be suspected : they would 
long ago have fundamentally altered the social 
condition of the interior. We may remark the 
same of Ptolemy's three great Arabian streams, 
which could have existed only in the imagin- 
ation of travellers. 

As we advanced up the Eabai Water the sea 

VOL. II. 4 



50 



THE VIEW. 



arms shrank, and the scenery brightened till 
we felt that any picture of this gorgeous and 
powerful nature must be comparatively grey 
and colourless. A broken blue line of well- 
wooded hills, the K/abai Range, first offsets of 
the Coast Ghats, formed the background. On 
the nearer slopes, westward, were the rude 
beginnings of plantations, knots of peasants' 
huts hove successively in sight, and pale smoke- 
wreaths, showing that the land is being prepared 
for the approaching showers, curled high from 
field and fell. Above was the normal mottled, 
vapoury sky of the rainy zone, fleecy mists, 
opal-tinted, and with blurred edges, floating 
on milk-blue depths, whilst in the western 
horizon a purple nimbus moved up majestically 
against the wind. Below, the water caught 
various and varying reflections of the firmament : 
here it was smooth as glass, there it was 
dimpled by the pattering feet of the zephyrs, 
that found a way through the hill-gaps, and 
merrily danced over the glistening floor. Now 
little fish, pursued by some tyrant of the waters, 
played duck and drake upon the surface : then 
larger kinds, scate-shaped, sprang five or six 
feet into the air, catching the sun like silver 
plates. On both sides the wave was bounded 



FORESTS OF THE SEA. 



51 



by veritable forests of the sea. The white 
mangrove affected the unflooded ground ; the 
red species (Ehizophora Mangle, Linn.) rose un- 
supported where solidly based, but on the watery 
edge it was propped, like a Banyan tree in 
miniature, by succulent offsets of luscious purple 
and emerald green, so intricate that the eye 
would vainly unravel the web of root and trunk, 
of branch and shoot. Hence, doubtless, the 
name Aparaturie, or Apariturier, of the old 
Prench travellers, from parere, because the tree 
reproduces itself like mankind before split into 
Adam and Eve. Clusters of parasitical oysters 
adhered edgeways to the portions denuded by 
the receding tide; the pirate-crab sat in his 
plundered shell, whilst the brown newt and 
rainbow-tinted cancers, each with solitary claw, 
plunged into their little hiding-holes, or coursed 
sidling amongst the harrow-work of roots, and 
the green tufted upshoots binding the black 
mass of ooze. These are the 'verdant and 
superb, though unfruitful, trees' of the old 
Portuguese navigator, which supply the well- 
known ' Zanzibar rafters.' Various lichens sat 
upon the branch forks, and tie-tie, or llianas, 
hung like torn rigging from the boughs. Here 
and there towered a nodding cocoa, an armed 



52 



THE VIEW. 



• 



bombax (silk-cotton tree), or a 'P'hun '-tree, with 
noble buttressed shaft and canopied head of 
leek-green, glinted through by golden beams. 
Fish- hawks, white and brown-robed, soared high 
in ether. Lower down, bright fly-catchers 
hunted the yellow butterflies that rashly crossed 
from bank to bank ; the dove coo'd in the denser 
foliage ; the yellow vulture, apparently keeping 
a bright look-out, perched upon the topmost 
tree-crest overhanging the shoal water which 
lined the sides ; the small grey kingfisher poised 
himself with twinkling wings ; the snowy paddy- 
bird stood meditating upon the margin of the 
wave, while sober-coated curlews and sandpipers 
took short sharp runs, and stopped to dive beak 
into the dark vegetable mud. 

After seven hours, or ten miles, of alternate 
rowing, sailing, and pushing through pelting 
rain and potent sunbeams, we reached, about 
mid-day, the pier — a tree projecting from the 
right bank over the miry graves of many defunct 
mangroves. Our boat, stripped of sail, oars, and 
rudder, to secure her presence next morning, 
was made fast to a stump, and we proceeded 
to breast the hills. We began with rolling 
ground, sliced and split by alternate heat and 
moisture, thickly grown with tall coarse grass, 



THE VILLAGE. 



53 



sun-scorched to a sickly tawny brown, and thinly 
sprinkled with thorny trees. Amongst the latter 
I recognized the ' Gabol '-mimosa of Somaliland, 
whose long sharp needle, soft whilst young, but 
dry, hard, and woody when old, springs from 
a hollow filbert-like cone. 

Another mile brought us to the first ascent 
of the Rabai hills. The pitch of the fell was 
short but sharp, and the path wound amongst 
boulders, and at times under palms and clumps 
of grateful shade. On the summit appeared 
the straggling lodges of the savages, pent- 
housed sheds of dried fronds, surrounded by 
sparse cultivation, lean cattle, and vegetation 
drooping for want of rain. The desert people 
were all armed, being in terror of the Wamasai, 
the natural enemies of their kind. Xone, how- 
ever, carried guns, the citizens of Mombasah 
having strictly prohibited the importation of 
powder ; a w ise precaution which might be 
adopted by more civilized races upon the West 
African coast. Amid cries of Yambo ! — a salut- 
ation which recalled dim memories of Mumbo 
Jumbo — especially from that part of the com- 
munity termed by prescriptive right the fair — 
questions as to whether our bundle contained pro- 
visions, and the screams of lean-ribbed children, 



54 



KISULODI-NI. 



we pursued our road under the grateful cover of 
a little wood, and then over ridgy ground where 
a scattered village, shortly to he wasted by the 
Kimasai spear, was surrounded by the scantiest 
cultivation. At the end of a five-mile walk We 
entered the Mission House, introduced ourselves, 
and received from Mr and Mrs Rehmann the 
kindest welcome. They were then alone, M. 
Deimler, who had lived with Mr Isenberg in 
Abyssinia, having left them three days before in 
H. M.'s ship Castor, the late Commodore Trotter. 
We afterwards saw the latter at Zanzibar. 

The Kisulodi-ni Mission House ^ at llabaiMpia 
appeared to us in these lands a miracle of in- 

^ I made a sketch of it which was published in Dr Krapf's 
Travels, chap. xiii. Rabai Mpia, ' New Eabai,' is thus dis- 
tinguished from a neighbouring settlement, Eabai Khu or 
Kale, ' old Eabai.' According to M. Guillain (i. 247), the 
' Montagues de Eabaye ' correspond with the ' Alkerany ' of 
the geographer Ibn Said, who says, ' East of Melinde is 
Alkerany, the name of a mountain very well known to 
travellers. This height projects into the sea for a distance 
of about 100 miles in a north-east direction ; at the same 
time it extends along the Continent in a straight line, trending 
south for some 50 miles. Amongst the peculiarities of this 
mountain is the following : the continental portion contains 
an iron mine, which supplies all the country of the Zenj, 
besides being exported, and the part under the sea contains 
magnetic matter which attracts iron.' Evidently ' Alkerany ' 
belongs to the geography of El Sindibad of the Sea, better 
known as Sindbad the Sailor. 



THE MISSION-HOUSE. 



55 



dustry. Begun about 1850 by Messrs Eebmann 
and Erhardt, it was finished after some two 
years of uncommonly bard work. The form 
is three sides of a hollow square, completed with 
a railing to keep poultry from vagrancy, and 
the azotea, or flat roof, is ascended by an 
external ladder ; the material is sandstone, clay- 
plastered and white-washed; mangrove rafters 
form the ceiling, and Mvuli planks the doors 
and shutters. It has, however, its inconve- 
niences, being far from that source of all comfort, 
the well, and beplagued with ants — the little 
red wretches are ubiquitous by day, and by 
night overrunning the clothes, nestling in the 
hair, and exploring nose and ears without a mo- 
ment's repose, they compel the inmates to sleep 
with pans of water supporting the couch legs. 
We enjoyed sundry huge ' sneakers ' of tea, 
and even more still the cool, light, refreshing 
air of the heights, and the glorious evening, 
which here, unlike ' muggy ' Zanzibar, follows 
the heavy showers. The altitude by B. P. proved 
to be 750 feet, not 1200 to 2000, as reported. 

The servants, most grotesque in garb and form, 
gathered to stare at the new white men, and 
those hill-savages who were brave enough to enter 
a house stalked about, and stopped occasionally 



56 



APEKUNZA. 



to relieve their minds by begging snuff or cloth. 
One of the attendants had that in his face and 
manner which suggested the propriety of having 
a revolver ready. ' Do not mind him/ said Mrs 
Kebmann, ' he is a very dear friend, — one of our 
oldest converts.' ' Yes/ pursued her husband, 
^ Apekunza was mentally- prepared for Chris- 
tianity by a long course of idiocy, poor fellow!' 
We were somewhat startled by the utter simpli- 
city of the confession when it was explained to 
us that the convert Apekunza, whom Dr Krapf 
calls Abbe Gunja, had, as often happens to 
Africans, been driven to distraction by the loss 
of all his friends and relatives. M. Rebmann 
also related to me in pathetic terms the death of 
the mechanic missionary, Johannes Wagner, a 
youth who, suffering from typhus, was very 
properly, but in vain, supplied with abundant 
stimulants, therefore the Arab version of the 
event was Sharrabuhu Khamr kasir — sdr sakran 
— mdt wa Jehannum (they gave him much strong 
liquor — he got drunk — died, and went to Gehen- 
na). To compare the edification of the people 
round the Christian death-bed, as set forth in 
the Missionary Intelligencer, was not a little 
suggestive of the delusions in which even honest 
men can live. 



M. REBMANN. 57 

At a conference with the secretaries of the 
Church Missionary Society in London, Major 
Straith and the Rev. Mr Yenn had intrusted 
me with an open letter to their employe, dated 
Sept. 30, 1856, giving him leave of absence in 
case he decided to accompany the East African 
expedition at the expense of the latter. They 
had neglected to forward a copy, but M. E>eb- 
mann had received a second communication, 
which he did not before produce. His earliest im- 
pulse was evidently to assist in carrying out the 
plans which had been first formed by the ' Mom- 
bas Mission,' and personally to verify the accu- 
racy of the map, then so loudly and violently 
criticised, now gaining credit every year. But 
presently cool reflection came. He was not in 
strong health ; he had, perhaps, seen enough of 
the interior ; and, possibly, after a few conversa- 
tions he thought that we relied too much on the 
arms of flesh — sword and gun. The home in- 
structions were, 'The Committee have only to 
remark that they entirely confide in you, as one 
of their missionaries, that wherever you go you 
will maintain all the Christian principles by 
which you are guided; that should you see fit 
to go with the expedition your experience and 
knowledge of the language may prove very valu- 



58 M. REBMANN. 

able; while you may also obtain access to re- 
gions and tribes where missionary enterprise 
may be hereafter carried on with renewed 
vigour.' This did not quite suit us, who had 
been pledged by Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton to 
avoid ' Dutchmen ' and proselytizing. Briefly, 
M. Rebmann did not accompany us. A few 
weeks afterwards we met him again at Zanzibar, 
whither he had been driven by the plundering 
Wamasai in February, 1857. His passion for the 
' wunderbar ' had not abated, and he told us im- 
possible legends about vast forests and other myth- 
ical features, near the Nyassa, southern or Zambe- 
zean Lake. During the years which he had spent 
in the Wanyika country he had never studied its 
language; but when driven from it, he imme- 
diately applied himself to Kinyika. An honest 
and conscientious man, he had yet all the quali- 
ties which secure unsuccess. He was the last of 
the ten members of the hapless Mission : all of 
them were attacked by bilious remittents a few 
weeks after commencing their labours; several 
had died, and the others had sought less danger- 
ous fields for labour, and some possibility of 
doing something in the spiritual way. That it 
has been highly successful, geographically speak- 
ing, none can doubt. The short trips into the 



THE MOMBAS MISSION. 



59 



interior, and the long conversations with the 
natives, duly published by Messrs Krapf, Reb- 
mann, and Erhardt, gave an impulse to East 
African exploration utterly unknown before their 
day. And as the recent valuable labours of 
Messrs Wakefield and Xew prove, the ' Mombas 
Mission ' is not likelv to deroo^ate from its former 
fame. 

We had proposed for ourselves a short ex- 
cursion inland from Mombasah ; but everything 
combined to oppose the })roject. The land was 
parched, provisions were unprocurable, the rob- 
ber tribes were out, and neither guides nor porters 
would face the plundering parties then approach- 
ing the town. Indeed, it is to be feared that the 
entrance to Chaga, Kilima-njaro, and the hill 
country around will now be closed to travellers for 
many a year. Caravans dare not risk a contest 
with professed plunderers ; and hereabouts a suc- 
cessful raid always leads to sundry repetitions. 
Such is the normal state of East Africa, from the 
E-ed Sea to the Cape. The explorer can never be 
sure of finding a particular road practicable : a 
few murders will shut it for a generation, and 
efi'ectually arrest him at the very tliresliold. 

We had no object during a mere ' trial trip,' 
either to fight our way, or to pave it with gold. 



60 



HERE PETERMANN. 



Our course was to economize life and money for 
the great task of exploring the Lake Regions. 
This was duly explained by me to the Koyal 
Geographical Society, and no African traveller 
would have required the explanation. But a cer- 
tain Herr Augustus Petermann, of Gotha, could 
not resist the temptation 'of taunting me with 
having hesitated to face dangers through which 
the missionaries had passed, ' weapoued only 
with their umbrellas.' This gentleman from 
Germany had visited England, and had created 
for himself the title of ' Physical Geographer to 
the Crown': when, however, no salary was the 
result, he returned to his native land, declaring 
that the Crown niust take its geography without 
physic. His style of settling geographical ques- 
tions, for instance in the ' Skizze ' before alluded 
to (note 1, chap, v.), seems to be simply striking 
a mean between the extremes of the disputants. 
The process reminds one of a Bombay savan, 
locally famed, who, having collected every ob- 
servation published upon the disputed longitude 
of that port, added them all, divided them by the 
number of the items, and produced his meridian. 
As a reward for Herr Petermann's * zealous and 
enlightened services as a writer and cartographer 
in advancing geographical science,' that is to 



HERE PETERMANN. 



61 



say, persistent book-making and map-drawing, 
he, and not Mr Alexander Findlay, received, in 
1867, the Pounder's medal of the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society ; and I can only say that in 
this case the gift has gone cheap, and has been 
easily gained, as what is called in familiar Erencli 
' un crachat.' 

Unlike the traveller, the merchant always 
commands an entrance for his goods : if one 
line be shut up, another forthwith opens itself. 
Such we found this vear to be the case at Mom- 
basah ; the western country has suddenly been 
closed to Arabs and Wasawahili ; the north- 
western has become as unexpectedly practicable. 
On January 19 (1857) returned the van of a 
large trading party, which had started for the 
interior in September last. It was composed of 
about 200 men — Arabs, Wasawahili, and slaves, 
of whom 40 bore provisions, rice and maize, pulse, 
sugar, and tobacco, whilst 150 armed with muskets 
carried packs to the value of §3000 in ' Merkani ' 
(American domestics), sheetings, longcloths, and 
other stuffs ; green, white, and spotted beads, 
knives, tin (bati); brass wires, and small chains, 
with stores and comforts for the journey. After 
19 days of actual marching, and sleeping out 24 
nights, they reached Kitui, the farthest point 



62 



UKAMBA-NI. 



visited by Dr Krapf in 1849, and thence they dis- 
persed through Ukamba-ni and Kikuyu, its north- 
western province, to purchase ivory. The latter 
article sold per Earsalah (35 lbs.) for 88 cubits 
of cotton cloth, probably worth at Zanzibar 11 
German crowns and a small merchant could 
thus afford to being back from 1400 to 1500 lbs. 
I wrote down a list of their marches^ and 

^ The route which follows seems to agree, as far as it goes, 
with the Eev. Mr Wakefield's No. 3, from Mombasah to Dhai- 
cho. I have not changed my notes, which still appear in my 
diary of 1857. 

t. Mombasah via Mkupa to Rabai : 1 full day. 

2. Kitakakai in the plains of the Wakamba : 1 day. 

3. Mtu 'Ndogoni (M'tu Anggoni of Capt. Guillain ?) : 

1 day. 

4. "Wamamba of the Doruma : 1 day. 

5. Kisima (little well), amongst high hills, with a small 
reservoir : 1^ day. This appears to be the Ngurunga za 
Kimiri and Ngurunga za Mlala of Capt. Guillain, -and the 
Gurungani of Mr Wakefield). 

6. Dayda (Tayta, the Taveta of Capt. Guillain, which Mr 
Wakefield makes a corruption of a Kikwavi word, ' Ndoveta') : 

2 days (1 long and 1 short). 

7. Ndi, a place infamous for thieves : 1\ day. 

8. The Chago (Zavo) or Tsavo river: \\ day. (Captain 
Guillain has a village, Segao.) 

9. Mtitowandei : IJ day. 

10. Kikumbulu, or country on the southern frontier of 
Ukamba: 1 day. 

11. The Adi (Sabaki or Sabbak) river, which disembogues 
itself north of Melinde, unfordable after rains : 1 J day. 

12. The Tiwa river in Tata : 1 day. 

13. Nzau, the land of tobacco : 1^ day. 



UKAMBA-NI. 



63 



stations, carefully comparing the accounts of 
several travellers. Ukamba-ni was described to 
me as • a country rich in game, whose rivers 
were full of hippopotamus ; with gazelles, jungle- 
cattle, and ' wild camels ' (giraffes) in the plains, 
and in the bush lions and leopards, elephants, 
and the rhinoceros, which the Arabs here call 
' El Zurraf,' and describe to be very fierce. The 
tribes are subject to head men, whose influence 
extends over a few miles : these chiefs must be 
propitiated with cloth and beads, for which they 
return safe conduct and provisions. At Kikuyu 
the caravan found a royalet, Mundu Wazeli, 
whose magical powers were greatly feared. The 
people, a semi-pastoral and hospitable race, will- 
ingly escorted the strangers. They are braver 
than the Wanyika, and they effectively oppose 
the Wamasaa, when invading their country to 
drive the Galla cattle. The Wakamba claim 
blood-relationship with the Wakwafi and the 
Wagalla, who, it must be remembered, speak an 
Arabic dialect. All spring from the three sons 

14. Kitui : 2i days. 

Thence, to the beginning of Kikuyn, the travellers make 
from 4 to 8 stages. The day's ^vork would be 9 hours, in- 
cluding 2 of halt, and the distance, assuming the pace to be 2\ 
miles per hour, would be about 17 miles. Here, say the people, 
10 marches do the work of a month on the southern lines, the 
reason being want of food and water, and fear of enemies. 



64 UKAMBA-NI. 

of a venerable keeper of cattle, Mkwafi the senior, 
Mgalla, and Mkambd : the legend seems in- 
vented to account for the inveterate blood-feud 
between the cousin tribes. When the founders 
had inherited their father's property, they had 
been cautioned against robbing wild honey, and 
they were told, as in the Crystal Palace, ' Never 
kill a Bee.' Mkamba, apparently having a sweet 
tooth, attacked a wild hive, and had the misfor- 
tune to see all his cattle rush violently to the 
forests, where in time they became ' buffaloes ' 
and antelopes. He naturally robbed his second 
brother, who, in turn, robbed the senior, who 
retorted by robbing the junior, and so forth till 
the present day. The climate is good, water 
abounds, and provisions are cheap. The honey 
is ' white as paper ' ; sugar-cane, manioc, holcus, 
and tobacco are everywhere cultivated by the 
women ; poultry is plentiful, and goats cost 8, 
while cows fetch 24 cubits of cotton cloth. The 
beasts of burden are asses and a few camels. The 
return road was rendered dangerous by the Gal- 
las and the Wamasai, who both harry Ukam- 
ba-ni, but who did not dare to attack so large a 
body armed with guns. The caravan marched 
from sunrise till the afternoon, halting about 
half an hour after two hours' walking, the stages 



UKAMBA-NI. 



65 



being mostly determined by water. Every night 
they surrounded themselves with a corral, or 
rude abbatis, and they lighted huge fires against 
the wild beasts. I did not hear that any of the 
party died. My informants could tell me no- 
thing concerning the giant snow-mountain, 
Ndur-Kenia/ that exceptional volcano, still ac- 
tive, when distant 6° from the sea, which would 
postulate a large lacustrine region, possibly the 
Baringo or Behari-ngo. They had never heard 
of the Tumbiri or Monkey river, flowing to the 
N. West ; of the direct communication with the 
Upper Nile, or of other geographical curiosities 
whose existence the study of the interior during 
the last few years has either confirmed or an- 
nulled. Yet they were acute and not incurious 
men. One of them, Mohammed bin Ahmad, had 
kept a journal of his march, carefully noting the 
several stages. The late M. Jomard, President of 
the French Geographical Society, had been in- 

^ The reports forwarded by the Eev. Mr Wakefield render 
it very probable that Mount Kenia is the Domyo Ebor, 
' White Mountain,' the block rising north of Kikuyu, and 
almost in a meridian with Kilima-njaro. Moreover, a native 
traveller has lately described a mass of 30 to 40 craters in the 
Njemsi country, south of the Baringo or Bahari-ngo Lake ; the 
apex of the mountains being the Doenyo Mburo, alias the Ki- 
rima ja Jioki (Mountain of Smoke), heard of by Dr Krapf 
(Church Miss. Int., p. 234. 1852.) 

VOL. II. 5 



66 



WAKAMBAS. 



formed (and misinformed) that an annual cara- 
van of ' red people,' from the neighbourhood of 
Mombasah, carried beads to buy ivory on the 
Nile, about N. lat. 3°. He laid down the length 
of the journey at two to three months. The 
Arabs knew nothing of the matter. 

Nothing even among the Somali Eedawin can 
be wilder than the specimens from Ukamba-ni; 
these Warimangao,^ as the people of Mombasah 
call them, the ' sons ' of the chief Kivoi, that 
danced and sang the Nyunbo or song of triumph 
in the streets of Mombasah. It was a perfect 
picture of savagery. About 50 blacks, ruddled 
with ochre, performed the Zumo (procession) ; 
men blowing Kudu-horns, or firing their muskets, 
and women ' luUalooing.' They sat with us for 
some hours drinking a sherbet of Ngizi, or mo- 
lasses extracted from cocoa-tree toddy, and the 
number of gallons which disappeared were a cau- 
tion. The warriors of the tribe, adorned with 
beads on the necks, loins, and ankles, were armed 
with the usual long bows and poisoned arrows, 
spears or rather javelins, knobsticks for striking 

^ The singular is Mrimangao, hence Mr Cooley 's Meremongao, 
whence iron was exported to make Damascus blades — risum 
teneatis ? Dr Krapf says ' the Wakamba are called by the Sua- 
hili, Waumanguo.' M. Gruillain (iii. 216) translates ' M'rim- 
anggao, or Ouarimanggao ' by 'gens qui vont nus.' 



WAKAMBAS. 



67 



or throwing; knives and two-edged swords of 
fine iron, the latter a rude imitation of the straight 
Omani blade, of which I afterwards saw speci- 
mens upon the Congo river. Some had shock 
heads of buttered hair, wondrous unsavoury, and 
fit only for door-mats; others wore the thatch 
twisted into a hundred little corkscrews ; their 
eyes were wild and staring, their voices loud and 
barking, and all their gestures denoted the ' noble 
savage' who had run out of his woods for the 
first time. They were, however, in high spirits. 
Before last year (1857) no Arab had visited their 
country : trading parties from Ukamba-ni sold 
ivory to the Wanyika for four times round the 
tusk in beads, and these middlemen, after fleecing 
those more savage than themselves, retailed the 
goods at high profits to the citizens. The 
Wakamba of the coast are, of course, anxious to 
promote intercourse between Mombasah and their 
kinsmen of the interior, and thus the road, first 
opened at the imminent risk of life, by the enter- 
prising Dr Krapf, has become a temporary highway 
into the interior of Eastern Intertropical Africa 
— a region abounding in varied interest, and still 
awaiting European exploration. But let not geo- 
graphers indulge in golden visions of the future! 
Some day the Arabs of Mombasah will seize and 



08 



THE COAST RANGE. 



sell a caravan, or the fierce Wamasai or the 
Gallas will prevail against the traders. Briefly, 
no spirit of prophecy is needed to foresee that 
the Kikuyu line shall share the fate of many 
others. 

A report prevalent in. Mombasah — even a 
Msawahili sometimes speaks the truth — -that the 
Mission House had been attacked by the savages, 
and the march of an armed party from the town, 
showing a belief in their own words, hurried us 
up to Kisulodi-ni, on Sunday, January 18. The 
rumour proved to be false, but it was a shadow 
forethrown by coming events : as M. Rebmann 
showed certain velleites for martyrdom, I insisted 
that his wife, an English woman, should be sent 
down to Mombasah, and we had the satisfaction 
to see the boxes packed. This second visit added 
something to our knowledge of the country. 
The Ghaut, or Coast E;ange, which has no general 
but many partial names, as E^abai, Shimba, and 
others, varies in height from 700 to 1200 feet, 
and fringes the shore from Melinde to the Pan- 
ga-ni river. Distant but a few miles from a sea- 
board of shelly coralline, it shows, like Madagas- 
car, no trace of the limestone formation, which 
forms the maritime region of Somaliland. These 
hills are composed of sandstones, fine and coarse, 



THE COAST RANGE. 



69 



red-yellow and dark brown, with oxide of iron ; 
the soil, as usual in Western Intertropical Africa, 
is a ' terrier rouge,' as Senegal was called by the 
Prench of the 17th century, a red ochreous clay, 
and bits of quartz lie scattered over the surface. 
Beyond it are detached hills of gneiss and grey 
and rufous granite : the latter is so micareotis that 
the Baloch firmly believe it to contain gold. 

Inland of Mombasah the Rabai Range is a 
mere ridge, with a gentler counter- slope land- 
wards, declining 150 to 200 feet, not, as such mari- 
time formations usually are, the rampart of an 
inland plateau. This unusual disposition pro- 
bably gave rise to the novel idea — instruments 
were not used — that the interior falls to, and even 
below, sea-level, thus forming a depression, 
bounded north and south by rapid rivers, the Adi 
and the Panga-ni. The chine is broken by deep 
ravines, which during the rains pour heavy tor- 
rents into the sea-arms at their base : the people 
might make tanks and reservoirs by draining the 
smaller clefts, but they prefer thirst and famine 
to sweating their brows. Though exposed to the 
blighting salt breeze, the land wants nothing but 
water, and, this given, no man need ' tread upon 
his neighbour's toes.' Arecas and cocoas, bushy 
mangoes and small custard-apples, the guava and 



70 



THE COAST RANGE, 



the castor plant, the feathery manioc, and the 
broad-leaved papaw and plantain flourish upon its 
flanks. In the patches of black forest spared by 
the wild woodman, the copal, they say, and the 
Mvule, a majestic timber-tree whose huge trunk 
serves for planking and d'oors at Zanzibar, still 
linger. I saw none of the cinnamon plants men- 
tioned by Dr Krapf. A little gnm-animi or 
copal is here dug; but the inveterate indolence of 
the natives, their rude equality, in which, as 
amongst Bushmen, no one commands, and their 
inordinate love for Tembo, or palm-wine, are 
effectual obstacles to its exploitation. When we 
visited these, hills drought and its consequence, 
famine, had compelled the people to sell their 
children : contented with this exertion, they did 
no more. 

We left Kisulodi-ni on January 22, 1857. 
Some nights afterwards fires were observed upon 
the neighbouring hills, and the Wanyika scouts 
returned with a report that the Wamasai were in 
rapid advance. The wise few fled at once to the 
Kaya, or hidden barricaded stronghold, which 
these people prepare for extreme danger. The 
foolish many said, ' To-morrow we will drive our 
flocks and herds to safety.' But ere that morn- 
ing dawned upon the world, a dense mass of wild 



AN ATTACK. 



71 



spearmen, numbering some 800 braves, sweeping 
like a whirlwind, with shout and yell and clash- 
ing arms, passed the Mission House, which they 
either did not see or which thev feared to enter: 
dashed upon the scattered village in the vale be- 
low, and strewed the ground with the corpses of 
wretched fuo;itives. Thence dri^dnsr their loot thev 
rushed down to the shore, and met a body of 148 
matchlock-men, Arabs and Baloch, Wasawahili 
and slaves, posted to oppose progress. The ban- 
dits fled at the first volley. The soldiers, like 
true Orientals, at once dispersed to secure the 
plundered cattle, when the Wamasai rallying, fell 
upon them, and drove them away in ignominious 
flight, after losing 25 men, to the refuge of their 
walls. The victors presently retired to the hill- 
range, amused themselves with exterminating as 
many Wanyika as they could catch, and, gorged 
with blood and beef, returned triumphant to their 
homes. The old Jemadar Tans^ai took from the 
unfortunate Wanyika all their remaining cows; 
they also retired into the interior, and the price of 
provisions at Mombasah was at once doubled. 

The wild people of Eastern Africa are divided 
by their mode of life into three orders. Most 
primitive and savage are the fierce pastoral 
nomades, Wamasai and Gallas, Somal, and cer- 



72 



TRIBES. 



tain of the * Kafir ' sub-tribes : living upon the 
produce of their herds and by the chase and 
foray, they are the constant terror of their neigh- 
bours. Above them rank the semi-pastoral, as 
the Wakamba, who, though without building 
fixed abodes, make their women cultivate the 
ground : these clans indulge in occasional or pe- 
riodical raids and feuds. The first step towards 
civilization, agriculture, has been definitively 
taken by the Wanyika, the Wasumbara, the 
Wanyamwezi, and other tribes living between 
the coast and the inland lakes : this third order 
is usually peaceful with travellers, but thievish 
and fond of intestine broils. 

Eut a few years ago the Wakwafi,^ who in 

1 Dr Krapf s ' Vocabulary of the Engtituk Eloikob ' ( Wak- 
wafi), Tubingen, 1854. The author, a far better ethnologist 
than linguist, made the Wakwafi tribe extend from N. Lat. 
2° to S. Lat. 4^ and in breadth from T to 8°. He derives the 
racial name from Loi or Eloi (' those,' plural of Oloi), and G-ob 
or Kob (country) ' those in or of the country ' ; the word has 
been corrupted by the Wakamba to Mukabi, and by the Wa- 
sawahili to Mukafi and Mkwafi, in the plural, Wakwafi. Late 
reports represent the fact that the Wamasai tribe, after the 
fashion of all Inner Africa, is struggling to obtain a settlement 
upon the coast, where it can trade direct with Europeans, and 
has actually succeeded in driving the Waboni from the southern 
bank of the Adi or Sabaki river : thence its progress to Me- 
linde and the seashore is easy and sure. I regret to state that 
the valuable papers by Herr Eichard Brenner (Mittheilungen, 
&c., Dr A. Petermann, 18G8) have not been translated into 



THE WAMASAL 



73 



their raids slew women and children, were the 
terror of this part of the coast : now they have 
been almost exterminated by their Southern and 
S. Western neighbours, the Wamasai, a tribe of 
congeners, formerly friends, and speaking the 
same dialect. The habitat of this grim race is 
the grassy and temperate region from N. West- 
ward and to S. Westward of Chaga: nomades, 
but without horses, they roam over the country, 
where their flocks and herds find the best forage; 
they build no huts, but dwell under skins, pitch- 
ing rude camps where water and green meat are 
plentiful. They are described as a fine, tall, 
dark race resembling the Somal, with a fearful 
appearance caused by their nodding plumes, their 
hide pavoises or shields, longer than those of the 
' Kafirs,' and their spears with heads broad as 
shovels, made of excellent charcoal-smelted 
metal. According to native travellers, they are 
not inhospitable, but their rough and abrupt 
manners terrify the Wasawahili : they will snatch 
a cloth from the trader's body, and test his 
courage with bended bow and arrow pile toucli- 

Eugliah. Mr Edward Weller, however, has made use of that 
traveller's map in preparing his excellent illustration of these 
volumes. Herr Brenner is stated to be still in Africa; he ap- 
pears to be an intelligent traveller, and we may justly hope 
that we have not heard the last of him. 



74 



THE WAMASAL 



ing his ribs. Life is valueless among them; 
arms are preferred to clothes, and they fear 
only the gun because it pierces their shields. 
They are frequented when in peaceful mood by 
traders from Mombasah, Wasin, Mtanga, and 
Panga-ni : this year, however, even those who 
went up from the Southern ports feared to pass 
the frontier. Such visits, however, are always 
dangerous. ' If a number of persons are killed 
by a certain tribe, and there happen to be parties 
belong to that tribe staying amongst the race 
which has suffered loss, the visitors are immedi- 
ately put to death,' says Mr Wakefield. Cattle 
is the main end and aim of their forays, all herds 
being theirs by the gift of the Rain-god and by 
right of strength; in fact, no other nation should 
dare to claim possession of a cow. They do not 
attack by night, like other Africans : they disdain 
the name of robbers, and they delay near the 
plundered places, dancing, singing, and gorging 
beef to offer the enemy his revenge. Until this 
year they have shunned meeting Moslems and 
musketeers in the field : having won the day, they 
will, it is feared, repeat the experiment. 



CHAPTER TV. 



THE PEOPLE OE MOMBASAH. THE WANTIKA TRIBE. 
Static benefida carinis. — Yieoil. 

Tn 18M Dr Krapf allowed the population of 
Mombasah town, without its dependencies, to be 
8000 to 10,000. In 1846 M. GuiUain reduced it 
to 2500 or 3000 souls, not including a garrison 
of 250 men, but including 40 families of Arabs 
(220 to 230 souls), and 50 Banyans and Hindo- 
stani Moslems. In 1857 I was assured that it 
contained 8000 to 9000 souls, thus distributed : 
Arabs, about 350 ; 300 Baloch and other merce- 
naries, 50 Bhattias, 25 to 30 Indian Moslems, 
the rest being Wasawahili and the slave races. 
The Wasawahili are distributed into two great 
groups. Older and consequently nobler, though 



76 



MOMBASAH PEOPLE. 



less numerous, are the Wamwita; they derive 
their origin from a Shirazi Shaykh whose name 
is locally forgotten. The other and far larger 
division is the Wakilindi-ni, v/ho trace their 
name from Kilindi, whence they emigrated to 
Shungaya alias Shiraz, and eventually to Momba- 
sah. Originally they occupied on the western 
shore of the island a separate settlement, which 
they called after their oldest homes ; they built a 
tower of stone, surrounded it with a wall, pro- 
vided it with wells, and thus rendered themselves 
independent of their patrons. Some remnants 
of eight other tribes, coast-Arabs who had suf- 
fered from the invader, also colonized Mwita. 
Under the rule of the Portuguese an amalgama- 
tion took place, and the several races all became 
Wasawahili. The city is now governed by three 
Shaykhs — of the Arabs, of the Wamwita, and the 
Wakilindi-ni : they receive a small salary, and 
they communicate direct with Zanzibar, visiting 
the Island once a year. Justice is administered 
by three Kazis similarly chosen : the troops are 
under a Jemadar, and a Banyan sent by the 
farmer-general from head-quarters, manages the 
Custom House. 

The Kisawahili spoken at Mombasah is purer 
than that of Zanzibar, the result of being nearer 



MOMBASAH PEOPLE. 



77 



the fountain-head. Here the people can hardly 
articulate an initial ' A : ' they must say, for in- 
stance Bdula, or as often Mdiila, not Abdullah, 
and they supply a terminal vowel, as Shkula for 
School ; the Hindostan man who shirks our 
double initial consonants would change it to 
ishkul. The explosive sound of the B by forcibly 
closing the lips is given to the 31, which be- 
comes a perfect consonant having sound and 
continuance : before another consonant it creates 
in strangers' ears the suspicion of being preceded 
by the original vowel-sound, and when following 
a vowel it is articulated as a final not as an initial 
consonant — M'ana-w^ke (a woman), for example, 
would be pronounced M'anam-ke. The initial 
N also becomes before a consonant hard and 
explosive, and it sounds to the tyro as if a rapidly 
pronounced ' I ' or ' E ' were prefixed : Europeans, 
for instance, write A^jia, ' Endia.' At Mombasah 
I heard the Arab ' Hamzeh,' or compression and 
contraction of the larynx, when a hiatus of two 
similar vowels occurs, as in Mcho'o (rain) and 
Ta'a (a lamp) : in the dialects less pure the gap 
would be filled up by inserting the liquid or 
L, as Mfuru for Mfu'u (the name of a tree). The 
Arabs and the more civilized tribes, I have re- 
marked, prefer the E to the L, and say Eufu for 



78 



MOMBASAH PEOPLE. 



Lufu, the Upper Pangani river, and so forth. 
The T also assumes the cerebral sound of the 
Sanskrit and that which renders the English 
dentals so hard to foreigners. 

We found unexpectedly at Mvita — the ' Mom- 
bas Mission ' having been kindly received — a 
reception which could not be called friendly. 
Small communities are rarely remarkable for 
amiability, and these citizens are taxed by the 
rest of the coast-people with overweening pride, 
insolence of manner, bigotry and evil speaking, 
turbulence and treachery. They cannot forget 
their ancient glories, their hereditary chiefs who 
ruled like kings with Wazirs, Shayhks of tribes 
and Amirs or chief captains commanding hosts of 
savage warriors. Of course they regret the Ma- 
zara whom they themselves were the first to betray 
— they would betray them again and regret them 
again to-morrow. Like all ' civilized ' Africans, 
they are not only treacherous and turbulent, but 
also inveterate thieves and pilferers : few travel- 
lers have failed to miss some valuable in the 
boat that lands them. Lies were plentiful as pro- 
nouns. Whilst some for their own purposes 
made very light of travel in the interior, others 
studiously exaggerated the expense, the difficulty, 
and the danger; and recounted the evils which 



MOMBASAH PEOPLE. 



79 



had befallen Dr Krapf because he refused to 
take their advice. As I determined to disregard 
both, so they combined to regard us as rivals and 
enemies. They devoted all their energies to the 
task of spoiling us ; and failing in that matter, they 
tried bullying : on one occasion I was obliged to 
administer, sword in hand, the descent down-stairs. 
The Jemadar Tangai, a gaunt Mekrani some 60 
years old, and measuring 6 ft 2 in., insisted cour- 
teously upon supplying an escort, with the view 
of exchanging his worthless swords for our guns 
and revolvers : he could neither read nor write, but 
he was renowned for ' ' Akl,' intellect, here synony- 
mous with rascality. His son Mustafa brought 
a present of goats and fruit, for which he received 
the normal return-gift ; he expected a little cloth, 
gunpowder, and a gold chronometer. We were 
visited by a certain Shafei Shaykh ; by a Momba- 
sah merchant, Jabir bin Abdullah el Rijebi, who 
seemed to think that men should speak in his 
presence with bated breath : he almost merited 
and he narrowly escaped being led out of the 
room by his ears. The very Hindus required a 
lesson of civility. We were on the best of terms 
with the Wall or Governor, Khalfan bin Ali el 
Bu Saldi, a fine specimen of the Arab gentlemen : 
he was on board when the Sayyid died, and he 



80 



MOMBASAH PEOPLE. 



told US all the particulars of that event. But the 
manifest animus of the puhlic was such as to 
make a residence at Mombasah by no means 
pleasant to us. 

Considering the intense curiosity of civilized 
humanity to know something of its fellow-men 
in the state so-called of nature, of the savages 
which now represent our remote ancestors, I 
proceed to sketch the typical tribe of this part of 
Africa. My principal authority is M. Rebmann, 
who during nine years has made a conscientious 
study of the race, and who imparted his know- 
ledge with the greatest courtesy. 

The name 'Wanyika' means People of the 
Nyika,^ or wild land : it is useless, with M. G. 
de Bunsen, to identify their land with the ^ixoivog 
op[xog of the Periplus, as every wilderness is here 
called Nyika. Moreover, the name is not anciently 
known upon the coast : we read of the Wakilin- 
di-ni and of the ' Muzungulos,' the plundering 
tribe which occupied the terra firma of Mombasah, 
and thus we may suspect the Wanyika to be a 
race which has emigrated from the interior since 
the middle of the l7th century. Their own 

^ From Nyika, the wild land, comes Mnyika, the wild 
lander ; Wanyika, the wild land folk ; and Kinyika, the wild 
land tongue. 



THE WANYIKA. 



81 



tradition is that they were expelled by the Gallas 
from the lands lying N.N. West of Melinde. 
They occupy the highlands between S. lat. 3° 
and 5°, and they are bounded north by the 
Wataita, and south by the Wasumbara. Dr 
Krapf proposes for them a census of 50,000 to 
60,000 souls, which appears greatly exaggerated. 
They are, as usual, divided into a multitude of 
clans, concerning which we know little but the 
names. Mulattoes of an early date, negroes mixed 
with Semitic blood and with a score of tribes, 
these East African families appear to have cast 
off in the course of ages the variety and irregu- 
larity of hybridism ; moreover, if it be true that 
' the Semite is the flower of the negro race,' the 
produce would hardly be properly called half-caste. 
Receiving for ages distinct impressions of the 
physical media around them, they have settled 
down into several and uniform national types : 
these, however, will not be detected by the un- 
practised eye. Many considerations argue them 
to be a degeneracy from civilized man rather 
than a people advancing towards cultivation. 
Their language attaches them to the great South 
African race, and some have believed in their 
ancient subjection to the Ethiopian or Kushite 
Empire. The historian of these lands, however, 

VOL. u, 6 



82 



PHYSIQUE. 



has to grope through the glooms of the past, 
guided only by the power to avail himself of the 
dimmest present lights. I vehemently doubt, 
moreover, the antiquity of maritime races in 
Tropical Africa — a subject which has been dis- 
cussed in my sundry studies of the "Western 
Coast. A case in point is the latest move of the 
pastoral Wamasai. 

Physically the Wanyika race is not inferior 
to other negroids, nor degraded as is the Congo 
negro. Like the Galla and the Somal, the skull 
is pyramido-oval, flattened and depressed at the 
moral region of the phrenologist — a persistent 
form amongst savages and barbarians — and 
straight or ' wall-sided ' above the ears, a shape 
common both to ' Semite ' and negro. The features 
are 'Hamitic' only from the eyes downwards: 
the brow is moderately high, broad, and conical ; 
the orbits are tolerably distant ; the face is 
somewhat broad and plain, with well- developed 
zygomata ; the nose is depressed with patulated 
nostrils, coarse and ill-turned ; the lips are 
hordes, fleshy and swelling, and the jaw is dis- 
tinctly prognathous. The beard is scant ; the 
hair, which though wiry, yet grows compara- 
tively long, is shaved off the forehead from ear 
to ear, and hangs down in the thinnest of cork- 



PHYSIQUE. 



83 



screws, stiffened with fat. The skin is soft, but 
the ef9.uvium is distinctly African ; the colour is 
chocolate-brown and rarely black, unless the 
mother be a slave from the South. The figure 
is, like the features, Semitic above and negrotic 
below. The head is well seated upon broad 
shoulders ; the chest is ample, and the stomach, 
except in early boyhood or in old age, does not 
protrude or depend. But the bunchy calf is 
placed near the ham; the shin-bone bends for- 
ward, and the foot is large, flat, and lark-heeled. 
Nothing is more remarkable than the contrast be- 
tween form and face in the woman-kind : upon 
the lower limbs, especially the haunches, of the 
Medicean Venus a hideous ape-like phiz meets 
the disappointed eye : above hangs a flaccid 
bosom, below 

wand-like is 

Her middle falling still, 
And rising whereas women rise — 
Imagine nothing ill ! 

There is not, as amongst the Hottentots, that ex- 
aggeration of the steatopyga which assimilates 
the South African man to his ovines : the sub- 
cutaneous fat overlying the gluteian muscles and 
their adjacent s, forms in early life a cushion rather 
ornamental than otherwise. Young men often 



84 



PHYSIQUE. 



show a curious little crupper which gives a 
whimsical appearance to the posterior surface 
— I have ohserved this also amongst the Somal. 
The favourite standing position is cross-legged, a 
posture unknown to Europe ; sometimes the sole 
of one foot is applied to the ankle or to the knee 
of the other leg : the gait — no two nations walk 
exactly alike — is half-stride, half-lounge. Eyes 
wild and staring, ahrupt gestures, harsh, loud, 
and harking voices, still evidence the ignoble 
savage. 

The Wanyika afford a curious study of rudi- 
mental mind. A nation of semi-naturals as 
regards moral and intellectual matters, their 
ideas are all in confusion. To the incapacity of 
childhood they unite the hard-headedness of 
age, and with the germs of thought that make 
a Bacon or a Shakespeare they combine an utter 
incapability of developing them. Their religion 
is of the ' small ' category, the large being 
Brahmanism and Buddhism, Judaism, Chris- 
tianity and El Islam, the first active Beform- 
ation of its predecessor, and the triumph of 
Arianism over Athanasianism. The system is 
that of a ' Gentile worshipping nothing,' yet 
feeling instinctively that there is a Something 
above or beyond him. It is the vain terror 



RELIGION, 



85 



of our childhood rudely systematized, the earliest 
dawn of faith, a creation of fear which ignores 
love. Thus they have not, in our sense of the 
words, God or devil,^ heaven or hell, soul or 
spirit. 

' Mulungu ' is the Mnyika's synonym of the 
Kafir Umdali, Uhlanga, and Unkulumkulu, 
the Morungo of Tete, the Unghorray of Mada- 
gascar, and the Omakuru of the Damaras. 
Amongst the most advanced trihes it denotes 
a vague kind of God : here it means any good 
or evil ghost, especially of a Pagan. The haunt- 
ing Moslem is distinguished as P'hepo, the plural 
of Upepo (a whirlwind, or ' devil,' generally 
called Chamchera). As amongst all Petish 
worshippers, the evestrum which they call 
Koma — pronounced like Goma — meaning ety- 
mologically 'one departed,' is a suhject of 
horror ; hut of the dead they say Yuzi sira — he 
is ended. They cannot comprehend a future 
state, yet they place sheep and goats, poultry 
and palm wine, upon the tombs of their dead. 
It is a modern European error (Rev. Mr J. P. 
Schon and Eev. Mr Sam. Crowther) to suppose 
that drops of liquor spilt, as by the Brass men, 

^ The Moslem "Wasawahili adapts the modified Arabic form, 
* Shaytani.' 



86 



RELIGION. 



in honour of the old people (ancestors), food- 
offerings at graves, and fires lighted there on 
cold wet nights, evidence the European's, the 
East African's,^ or the American's belief in 
futurity : as the act proves it is a belief in 
presentity, and after a few years the ceremony 
showing ' a continuation of relationship between 
the living and the dead, is always disused. 
Savages cannot separate the idea of an immortal 
soul from a mortal body : can we wonder at this 
when the wisest of the civilized have not yet 
agreed upon the subject ? The characteristic 
of the venerative faculty amongst savages and 
barbarians is ever irreverence : they cannot raise 
themselves to the idea of a Deity, and they 
blaspheme as if speaking of a man and an enemy. 
The Wanyika horrify the Moslems by their free 
language concerning Allah. So King Raddma 
I. of Madagascar, a comparatively civilized 
man, who attempted to regulate his forces upon 

^ I say East African because the western regions, especially 
Fanti-land and Dahome, believe in a Hades, or world of shades, 
which is apparently derived from Egypt. Of this I have 
spoken in my Mission to Dahome. Vitruvius exactly explains 
what my meaning is in the celebrated passage, Virgo civis 
Corinthia, jam matrem nuptiis, implicito morbo decessit ; post 
sepulturam ejus quibus ea viva poculis delectabatur, nutrix 
collecta et composita in calatho pertulit ad monumentum, et 
in aummo collocavit. 



RELIGION. 



87 



a European pattern, was in the habit of firing 
guns during storms ; lie declared that the two 
deities were answering one another — the God 
above speaking by thunder and lightning, the 
god below by cannon and powder. Yet he could 
anticipate the Bon General Janvier by General 
Tazo, the swamp-fever, who he declared was 
his best aid against the French invader. Some- 
thing of this irreverence is remarkable in the 
character of Richard Coeur de Lion. 

The Wanyika thus hold, with our philoso- 
phers, that the Koma is a subjectiv^e, not an 
objective, existence ; and yet ghost-craft is still 
the only article of their creed. All their diseases 
arise from possession, and no man dies what 
we should term a natural death. Their rites 
are intended either to avert evils from themselves 
or to cast them upon others, and the primum 
mobile of their sacrifices is the interest of the 
Mganga, or Medicine-man. "When the critical 
moment has arrived, the ghost, being adjured 
to come forth from the possessed one, names 
some article, technically called a Kehi, or 
chair, in which, if Avorn round the neck or 
limbs, it will reside without annoying the 
wearer. This idea lies at the bottom of many 
superstitious practices : this negro approach to 



88 



RELIGION. 



a * sympathetic cure ' is the object of the leopard's 
claw, of the strings of white, black, and blue 
beads, called Mdugu ga Mulungu (ghost-beads), 
worn over the shoulder, and of the rags taken 
from the sick man's body, and hung or fastened 
to what Europeans call the 'Devil's Tree/ The 
' Kehi ' is preferred by the demon-ghost to the 
patient's person, and thus by mutual agreement 
both are happy. Some, especially women, have 
a dozen haunters, each with its peculiar charm : 
one of them is called, ridiculously enough, 
' Barakat,' in Arabic ' a blessing,' and the P.N. 
of the Ethiopian slave inherited by Mohammed. 

It has not suited the Moslem's purpose to 
proselytize the Wanyika, who doubtless, like 
their kinsmen the Wasawahili, would have 
adopted the Saving Eaith. As it is, the Doruma 
tribe has been partly converted, and many of 
the heathen keep the Eamazan fast, feeling 
themselves raised in the scale of creation by 
doing something more than their pagan brethren. 
The ceremonies are the simplest contrivances of 
savage priestcraft. Births are not celebrated, 
and the weakly or deformed infant is at once 
strangled : it is a failure, and as such it is put 
away. Children become the property of the 
mother, or rather of her brother, to be disposed of 



FESTIVITIES. 



89 



as he pleases : the only one who has no voice in the 
matter is the putative father. Circumcision, an 
old African custom extending from Egypt to the 
Cape, and adopted from the negroid by the 
Hebrews, is a semi-religious act performed once 
every five or six years upon the youths en masse, 
and accompanied by the usual eating and drink- 
ins^, drummino? and dancinfir. A man mav 
marrv anv number of wives : the o^enial rite, 
however, is no tie to these fickle souls : it is 
celebrated by jollifications, and it is broken as 
merrilv. 

The principal festivities, if they can be so 
called, are funerals : the object is to ' break 
the fear' (Ussa kiwewe) of death, an event 
which, savage-like, they regard with a nameless 
dread, an inexpressible horror. Por a whole 
week the relations of the deceased must abstain 
from business, however urgent, and ruin them- 
selves by killing cattle and broaching palm- wine 
for the whole communitv. At these times there 
is a laxitv of morals, which recalls to mind the 
orgies of the classical Adonia, and refusal to 
lavish wealth upon the obsequies of relations 
is visited with tauntings and heavy fines. 

A characteristic of "^anvika customs is the 
division of both sexes into distinct bodies, with 



90 



CUSTOMS. 



initiatory rites resembling masonic degrees. The 
orders are three, not four as in India, Persia, 
and ancient Greece ; and traces of such organ- 
ization, founded as it is upon the ages of man, 
may be found in many communities of negroes 
and negroids. The Kru E^epublic, for instance, 
a pure democracy, flourishing close to the des- 
potisms of Ashanti and Dahome, makes a triple 
division of its citizens : the Kedibo, or juye- 
niles ; the Sedebo, or soldiers (adults) ; and the 
Gnekbadi, elders and censors. The southern 
Gallas appear to be divided into 'Toibs,' or 
officers ; the ' Ghaba,' adult warriors, who wear 
four Giitu or pigtails, projecting at right angles 
from the poll ; and the ' Ari,' cadets or aspirants, 
who have a right to only two. The Wakwafi 
have the El Moran, warriors, young men who 
live with their fathers ; the Ekieko, married 
men; and the Elkijaro or Elkimirisho, elders. 
The Wanyika split into the Nyere, or young ; 
the Khambi, or middle-aged ; and the Mfaya, or 
old. Each degree has its different initiation and 
ceremonies, with an ' elaborate system of social 
and legal observances,' the junior order always 
buying promotion from the senior. Once about 
every twenty years comes the great festival ^ TJn- 
yaro,' at which the middle-aged degree is con- 



CUSTOMS. 



91 



ferred. This (1857) is Unyaro-year; but the 
Wamasai hindered the rite. Candidates retire 
to the woods for a fortnight, and clay themselves 
for the first half with white, and during the 
second with red earth; a slave is sacrificed, 
and the slaughter is accompanied by sundry 
mysteries, of which my informants could learn 
nothing. When all the Khambi have been raised 
to the highest rank, the Mfaya, these, formerly 
the elders, return, socially, to a second child- 
hood ; they are once more Xyere, or (old) boys, 
and there is no future promotion for them. 
After the clay-coatings and the bloody sacrifice, 
the chief distinctions of the orders are their 
religious utensils. Por instance, the Muansa 
(plural Miansa) drum, a goat-skin stretched upon 
a hollowed tree-trunk, six feet long, wliose boom- 
ing, drawn-out sounds, heard at night amongst 
the wild forested hills, resembles the most me- 
lancholy moaning, is peculiar to the third de- 
gree or elders of both sexes. It is brought 
during the dark hours to the Kaya, and the 
junior orders may not look upon it. Similarly, 
the women have earthenware drums, which are 
concealed from the men. El Idrisi (1st climate, 
2nd section) had heard that the people of El 
Banes, 150 Arab miles by sea from Manisa or 



92 



CUSTOMS. 



Mombasah, adored a drum called Esrahim. It 
was covered with skin only at one end, and was 
suspended by a cord to be beaten ; the result 
was a frightful sound, heard at the distance of a 
league. 

Languor and apathy are here at once the 
gifts of the media or climate, and the heritage of 
the race : moreover, man in these lands, wanting 
little, works less. Two great classes, indeed, 
seem everywhere to make of life one long holi- 
day — the civilized rich, who have all things, and 
the savage, who possesses almost nothing. Yet 
is the Mnyika, and indeed mostly the wild 
man, greedy of gain — alieni appetens, sui pro- 
fusus — perfectly dishonest in quest of lucre, and 
not to be bound by honour or oath, as he is 
reckless, wasteful, and improvident. Like their 
neighbour-nations in this part of Africa, these 
people are instinctively and essentially thieves. 
They never go to war; agriculture, commerce, 
and a settled life have enervated them into 
pusillanimity without supplying superior know- 
ledge for offence or even for defence. They 
scratch the ground with their little hoes ; they 
wander about after their few cows and goats ; 
they sit dozing or chatting in the sun or 
before a fire; and they spend hours squatting 



DRINKING. 



93 



round an old pit till water collects, rather than 
sink it a few feet. Thus they idle away three 
days, and they rest from non-lahour on the 
fourth, called Juna, from Jum'a the Moslem 
' sabhath.' This, as amongst the Dahomans and 
other African tribes, is their week. Spare time 
is passed mostly in drunkenness, induced by 
Tembo or palm- wine, and with stronger liquors, 
when they can get them. They begin the pota- 
tions early in the morning, and after midday they 
are seldom sober, except for want of material. 
The tom-tom is hardly ever silent : as amongst 
the Somal and the Wasawahili, it sounds at all 
times, seasons, and occasions : and they dance, 
accompanying themselves with loud cries, even 
to expel the bad ghost from the body of a be- 
witched friend. They have also the Dahoman 
rattle, an empty gourd or cocoa-nut, filled with 
pebbles and provided with a handle : this is the 
celebrated ' Tamaraka ' idol worshipped by the 
Tupy-Guarani tribes, between the Gulf of Mexico 
and the Rio de la Plata. The music is simple, 
and they are contented to recitative for the live- 
long night such merum nectar as — 



' Kitosi mulalani ka-uka.' 

' The bird from the palm starts not.' 



94 



GOVERNMENT. 



This reminds us of the Histoire d'un bouton and 
the magical Teutonic refrain — 

' Trink Bier, liebe, liebe Lieschen,' 
arguing, says the witty author, so deep a de- 
votion to that art which hath power to soothe 
the savage breast. With time and tune well de- 
veloped, but wholly wanting in initiative, the 
wild men easily learned music from the mission- 
aries ; yet they have always preferred their own 
meaningless declamation. Of course the Kin- 
yika is an illiterate language. 

The policy of the Wanyika is a rude and law- 
less liberty, equality, fraternity. None com- 
mands where none obeys : consequently there is 
no ' temperamentum of chief,' no combination, 
and no possible improvement. The headman plies 
his hoe, like the serf, in his little plot of maize 
or manioc ; and the clans will not unite even 
to protect life. Causes are decided by a council 
of elders, according to the great African code — 
ancient custom. The chief of the five Shaykhs 
is he of B^abai Mku ; but even he dare not arro- 
gate to himself any authority. Pilfering is com- 
mon, robbing is rare ; and a man caught in the 
act of stealing is chastised by the proprietor with 
sword or bow. Adultery is punished by the fine 
of a cow and abundance of liquor. The mur- 



ELOQUENCE. 



95 



derer is more often mulcted than handed over 
for death to the family of the slain ; and little 
is said concerning the slaughter of a slave. 
Divided into half-a-dozen sub-trihes, each barely 
sufficient to stock an English village, these 
savages find petty political jealousies and in- 
trigues as necessary and as ready to hand as do 
the highly civilized. 

The Wanyika readily attended the European 
schools as long as these were a novelty; pre- 
sently, with the characteristic African levity and 
inconsequence, they grew weary of application, 
and they dubbed all who so exerted themselves 
Wazingu, or fools. Yet in one point they are an 
anomaly. They possess, in a high degree, the 
gift of many negro and negroid races, an un- 
studied eloquence which the civilized speaker 
might envy, and which, like poetry, seems to 
flourish most in the dawn of civilization. To 
see, says a Brazilian author, men so eloquent and 
so badly governed does not suggest that public 
speaking in the virility of civilization is a great 
ruling power. Their unpremeditated speech 
rolls like a torrent ; every limb takes its part in 
the great work of persuasion, and the peculiar 
rhythm of their copious dialect, favourable to 
such displays of oratory, forms an effective com- 



96 



CHARACTER. 



bination. Eew, however, can ' follow the words/ 
that is to say, answer in due order the heads of 
an opponent's speech. Such power of memory 
and logical, faculty is not in them. The abuse of 
the gift of language makes them boisterous in 
conversation, unable to keep silence — the negro 
race is ever loquacious — and addicted to ' bend- 
ing their tongues like their bows for lies.' They 
cannot even, to use a Zanzibar German mer- 
chant's phrase, 'lie honestly.' Their character 
may thus be briefly summed up : a futile race of 
barbarians, drunken and immoral ; cowardly and 
destructive ; boisterous and loquacious ; indolent, 
greedy, and thriftless. Their redeeming points 
are, a tender love of family, which displays itself 
by the most violent ' kin-grief,' and a strong 
attachment to an uninviting home. 

A certain critic, who had probably never 
transgressed the bounds of Europe, but who pro- 
bably had read Macaulay (' by judicious selection 
and previous exaggeration, the intellect and the 
disposition of any human being might be de- 
scribed as being made up of nothing but startling 
contrasts'), thus complained of my description 
of Somal inconsistency. ' This affectionately- 
atrocious people,' he declares, ' is painted in 
strangely opposite colours.' Can we not, then, 



DRESS, 



97 



conceive the high development of destructiveness 
and adhesiveness, to speak phrenologically, com- 
bining in the same individual ? And are not the 
peasantry of Connaught a familiar instance of 
the phenomenon? Such is the negro's innate 
destructiveness, that I have rarely seen him 
drop or break an article without a loud burst of 
laughter. During fires at Zanzibar he appears 
like a fiend, waving brands over his head, danc- 
ing with delight, and spreading the flames, as 
much from instinct as with the object of plunder. 
On the other hand, he will lose his senses with 
grief for the death of near relatives: I have 
known several men who remained in this state 
for years. But why enlarge upon what is ap- 
parent to the most superficial observer's eye ? 

The male dress is a tanned skin or a cotton 
cloth tied round the waist, strips of hairy cow- 
hide are bound like garters, or the ' hibas ' of the 
Bedawin Arabs, below the knee, and ostrich and 
other feathers are stuck in the tufty poll. The 
ornaments are earrings of brass or iron wire, and 
small metal chains : around the neck and 
shoulders, arms and ankles, hang beads, leather 
talisman-cases, and ' ghost-chairs ' — the latter 
usually some article difficult to obtain, for in- 
stance, a leopard's claw. Those near the seaboard 

VOL. II. 7 



98 



DRESS. 



liaye ceased to extract one or more of the lower 
incisors — a custom whose object was probably 
the facilitating of expectoration — and they now 
rarely tattoo, saying, ' Why should we spoil our 
bodies ? ' They have abandoned the decoration 
to women, who raise the cutis with a long 
sharp thorn, prick it with a knife-point, and wash 
the wounds with red ochre and water. Abroad 
the Mnyika carries his bow and long skin-quiver 
full of reed arrows, tipped with iron or hard wood, 
and poisoned by means of some bulbous root : his 
shield is a flat strip of cowhide doubled or trebled. 
He has also a spear, a knife at his waist for cut- 
ting cocoa-nuts, a E^ungu or knobstick in his 
girdle behind, and a long sword, half sheathed, 
and sharpened near the point. He hangs round 
his neck a gourd sneeze-mull, containing powder- 
ed tobacco with fragrant herbs and dried plantain- 
flower. On journeys he holds a long thin staff 
surmounted by a little cross, which serves to 
churn his blood and milk, a common article of 
diet in East Africa — similarly, the Lapps bleed 
their reindeer. He also slings to his back a 
dwarf three-legged stool, cut out of a single block 
of hard wood. In the ^ E-eise auf dem Weissen 
Nil ' (p. 32), extracted from the Vicar-General 
Knoblecher's Journals, we read of the chief 



WOMEN'S DRESS. 



99 



Xighila and liis followers carrying stools of tree- 
stumps, ornamented with, glass-ware. The other 
approximations of custom, character, and climate 
between the North Equatorial basin of the White 
River (Nile) and the coast of Eastern Intertro- 
pical Africa are exceedingly interesting. 

The costume of the Domus Aurea and E-osa 
Mystica is as simple : a skin or a cloth round the 
loins, another veiling the bosom, and in some 
cases a Marinda or broad lappet of woven beads, 
like the Coeoo of Guiana, falling in front, with a 
second of wider dimensions behind. A flat ruff 
of thick brass wire encircles the throat, making 
the head appear as in a barber's dish ; white and 
red beads, or the scarlet beans of the Abrus tree, 
form the earrings and necklace, bracelets and 
anklets, whilst a polished coil of brass wire, wound 
round a few inches of the leg below the knee, 
sets off the magnificent proportions of the limb. 
Young girls wear long hair, and the bold bairn 
takes his bow and arrows before thinking of a 
waist-cloth. 

The "Wanyika are a slave importing tribe : 
they prefer the darker women of the South to, 
and they treat them better than, their own wives. 
Children are sold, as in India, only if famine 
compels, and all have the usual hatred of slave 



100 



SLA VERY. 



niercliants, tlie ' sellers of men/ When a certain 
Ali bin Nasir was Governor of Mombasah he took 
advantage of a scarcity to feed the starving 
Wanyika with grain from the public depots. He 
was careful, however, to secure, as pledges of re- 
payment, the wives and children of his debtors, 
and these becoming insolvent, he sold off the 
whole deposit. Such a transaction was little sus- 
pected by our acute countrymen, when, to honour 
enlightened beneficence, they welcomed with all 
the plaudits of Exeter Hall, 'that enlightened 
Arab statesman, His Excellency Ali bin Nasir, En- 
voy Extraordinary of H.M. the Imam of Muscat, 
to the Court of H. B. Majesty ; ' presented him 
with costly specimens of geology, and gold chro- 
nometers ; entertained him at the public expense, 
and sent him from Aden to Zanzibar in the Hon. 
East India Company's brig of war, Tigris. This 
Oriental votary of free trade came to a merited 
bad end. He was one of the prisoners taken by 
the doughty B'ana Mtakha of Sewi, where the 
late Sayyid's ill-starved and worse-managed force 
was destroyed by the Bajuni spear. Becognized 
by the vengeful savages, he saw his sons expire 
in torments; he was terribly mutilated, and at 
last he was put to death with all the refinements 
of cruelty. And he deserved his fate. 



APOSTLE'S STREET. 



101 



The Wanyika consider service, like slavery, a 
dishonour : they have also some food prejudices 
which render them troublesome to Europeans, 
and those who live amongst them are obliged to 
engage Moslem menials. As regards the success 
of the ' Mombas Mission,' which was established 
in 1846, and upon which a large sum of money 
has been expended, the less said the better. Dr 
Krapf had started with the magnificent but vi- 
sionary scheme of an ' Apostle's Street,' a chain 
of mission posts stretching across Africa from 
sea to sea: he never, however, made converts 
enough to stock a single house. Those un- 
acquainted with savage life would think it an easy 
task to overthrow the loose fabric of wild super- 
stitions, and to raise upon its ruins a structure, 
rude, but still of higher type. Practically, the 
reverse is the case. The Wanyika, for instance, 
are so bound and chained by Ada, or custom, that 
inevitable public opinion, whose tyranny will 
not permit a man to sow his lands when he 
pleases ; so daunted and cowed by the horrors of 
their faith ; so thoroughly conservative in the 
worst sense of the word, and so enmeshed by 
tribal practices, of which not the least important 
is their triple initiation, that the slave of rule 
and precedent lacks power to set himself free. 



102 



FAITH. 



We may easily understand this. Eeligion is the 
mental expression of a race, and it cannot ad- 
vance in purity without a correspondent intellect- 
ual improvement on the part of its votaries. On 
the other hand, not a few nations, especially in 
the dawn of civilization, have risen despite their 
follies of faith : but these are peoples who have 
within them the germs of progress. Judaism 
did not make the Palasha of East Africa, nor the 
remote colonists of Southern Arabia, an intellect- 
ual people : the Jews of Aden, to this day, show 
no traces of mental superiority over their neigh- 
bours. Christianity has done nothing for Abys- 
sinia or Egypt : these lands are inhabited by 
peoples which have remained as nearly stationary 
as it is possible for human nature. Nowhere, 
indeed, has ' the Church ' proved herself in the 
long course of ages a more complete and hope- 
less failure than in her own birthplace, and in 
her peculiar ethnic centre, Syria. Here the Mar- 
ronites are in no ways superior, knd in many 
points, such as courage and personal dignity, in- 
ferior to their neighbours, the Metawali, who 
have a debased religion, and the Druzes, who 
have none. El Islam, also, has not much to boast 
of on the coasts of Guinea and of Zanzibar, ex- 
cept that it has abolished certain abominations 



EL ISLAM. 



103 



such as witch-killing, twin-murder, and poison 
ordeals, of which many have been practised in 
semi-civilized Europe and Asia. When, there- 
fore, we tell the world that the Bible made Eng- 
land or the Koran Stambul, we merely assist in 
propagating a fallacy. 



CHAPTER y. 



FROM MOMBASAH TO THE PANGANI UIVER. 

The sweeping sword of Time 
Has sung its death-dirge o'er the ruined fanes. 

Queen Mab. 

ISToT a head of game, not a hippopotamus, 
was to be found near Mombasah. We finished 
our geographical inquiries; shook hands with 
divers acquaintances; re-shipped, after sundry 
little difficulties, on board the Eiami; and on 
the 24th of January we left the turbulent island 
with gladdened hearts. The accidents of voyage 
now turned in our favour: there was a bright 
fresh breeze and a counter-current running 
southward thirty or thirty-five miles a day. 
After 6 hours of drowsy morning sailing, Ra'as 
Tewi, a picturesque headland, hove in sight, and 
two hours more brought the Eiami to anchor at 



GASI BAY. 



105 



Sandy Point, in Gasi (^l^*-) Bay. It lies half- 
way between Mombasah and Wasin Island, and 
the position is correctly laid down in the ' Mis- 
sion Map.'^ It is a mere roadstead, without 
other protection against the long sweep and 
swell of the Indian Ocean than a few scattered 
' washes,' and a coralline islet. The settlement 
lies at some distance from the shore, deep- 
bosomed in trees, behind a tall screen of ver- 
dant mangrove; only the nodding cocoa, sure 
indicator of man's presence in East Africa, 
towering high over the plebeian underwood, 
betrays its position to the mariner. The large 
village of wattle and dab huts is inhabited, like 
Mtuapa and Takaungu, by remnants of the 
proud Mazrui irreconcileables, still self-exiled 
from Mombasah. They live under the^ Shaykli 
Abdullah bin Khamis, and a sister of Shaykh 

^ ' Imperfect sketch of a Map/ by the Missionaries of the 
Church Missionary Society in Eastern Africa. J. Eebmauu, 
Eabia Mpia, April 4, 1850. This is the best yet published 
as regard the names and position of the settlements. It 
places Gasi half-way between Wasin Island and Mombasah, 
and it gives correctly the Jongoliani promontory. The same 
cannot be said of Herr Augustus Petermann's ' Skizze nach J. 
Erhardt's Original und der Engl. Kiisten Aufuahme (Captain 
Owen's, I presume) gezeichnet. Greographische Mittheil- 
ungen.' Gotha, 1856. It omits Tanga Bay and Cape Jon- 
golia-ni, whilst it places the Gasi roadstead close to Mom- 
basah. 



106 



GASI BAY. 



Mubarak of Mombasah, who is said to display 
peculiar energy. They have given refuge to 
fugitive slaves from Marka, and behind the coast- 
line they have founded a new settlement, Mwa- 
sagnombe. It is not improbable that, in com- 
mon with their brethren established in other 
villages, they look forward to recovering Mom- 
basah, their old appanage. 

Gasi is surrounded by plantations, and the 
Arabs, unmolested by the Wadigo savages, to 
whom the fertile land belongs, live in com- 
parative comfort. Our crew armed themselves 
to accompany my companion, who, despite the 
bad name of the people, was civilly received on 
shore, with sundry refreshments of cocoa-nut 
milk and cake of rasped pulp and rice-flour. 
The footprints of a small lion appeared upon the 
sands, but we were not young enough to under- 
take the fruitless toil of tracking it. This was 
the breeding season, as the frequent birds' -nests 
proved. Ensued a cool, breezy night on board 
the Eiami, the thermometer showing 75° (E.). 
Our gallant captain, the melancholist, sat up 
till dawn, chatting with Said bin Salim, who 
trembled at the sound of scattered washes, and 
at the wind moaning over the coral bank and 
through the barren ' forests of the sea.' 



WASIN ISLAND. 



107 



About sunrise we again made sail, and, guided 
by that excellent landmark, the Peaks of Wasin, 
whose height is in charts 2500 feet, we entered, 
after three hours, the narrow channel, with 
never less than 5 fathoms of water, which, run- 
ning nearly due east and west, separates Wasin 
Island from the continent. The north of this 
coralline bank, an 'insula opaca,' about 2 J 
miles long by 1 in breadth, is defended by sundry 
outlying ledges and diminutive cliffs, where the 
gulls and terns take refuge, and upon which the 
combing sea breaks its force. The low southern 
shore is rich in the gifts of floatsom and jetsom ; 
here the tide, flowing amongst the mangrove 
fringes and under shady crags, forms little bays, 
by no means unpicturesque. To windward, or 
south, lies the Wasin Bank, with three or four 
plateaux of tree-tufted rock emerging a few feet 
above sea-level. 

The Island, which does a little cultivation, 
belongs to Zanzibar, and the only settlement, 
about the centre of its length, is on the north- 
ern shore, fronting Wanga Bandar on the 
Continent. Wasin contains three Mosques, long 
flat-roofed rooms of coral ra^? and lime rans^ed 
obliquely to face Meccah, and scattered amongst 
little huts and large houses of ' bordi ' or man- 



108 



WASIN TOWN. 



grove timber : tlie latter are tied with coir rope 
and plastered over with clay, which in rare cases 
is whitewashed. The sloping thatch-roof al- 
ready approaches in size and in sharpness of pitch 
the disproportions of the Madagascar cottage. 
Huge calabashes extend their fleshy arms over 
the hovels, affording the favourite luxury of a 
cool lounge, and giving from afar a something of 
pleasant village aspect to the squalid settlement. 
Water must be brought from the mainland ; the 
people own it to be brackish, but declare that it 
is not unwholesome. The climate is infamous 
for breeding fever and helcoma, the air being 
poisoned by cowries festering under a tropical 
sun, and by two large graveyards — here also, as 
at Zanzibar, the abodes of the dead are built 
amongst the habitations of the living. The popu- 
lation is a bigoted and low-minded race, Hassadin 
(envious fellows) of evil eye, say the Zanzi- 
barians ; a mixture of lymphatic Arabs, hideous 
Wasawahili, ignoble half-castes, and thievish 
slaves. The Sayyid maintains no garrison here ; 
the Banyans have been forbidden to deal in 
cowries, and the native merchants have all the 
profits such as they are. 

I could hear nothing of Mr Cooley's 'tribe 
named Masimba, on the coast at Wassina 



THE CHURLS OF WASIN. 



109 



(Wasin Island), near Mombasa,' a term which he 
translates ' lions,' and identifies with the Zimba 
invaders of Do Couto. There is, however, a dis- 
trict of that name between "Wasin and Gasi ; 
and it may be connected with the range crossed 
by M. B^ebmann, in 1847, and usually written 
Shimba. In the interior the word Masimba is 
used when addressing man or woman, and the 
root appears to be identical with that of the 
Vazimba or aborigines of Ankova. The people 
of Wasin send caravans of 100 men to the in- 
terior, via Wanga Bandar. They set out about 
the end of Eebruary, make some 20 marches, and 
return with ivory and slaves after about four 
months. 

Landing, we found the shore crowded with 
unarmed spectators, who did not even return our 
salams : we resolved in future to reserve such 
greetings for those who deserve them. After 
sitting half an hour in a mat- shed, redolent 
with drying cowries and dignified with the 
name of Burzeh, or Custom House, presided over 
by a young Bolirah from Cutch, we were civilly 
accosted by an old man, whose round head 
showed him to be a Hindostani. Abd el Karim 
led us to his house, seated us in chairs upon the 
terrace, and mixed for us a cooling sherbet in a 



110 



LEAVE WASIN. 



kind of one-handled blue and white vase, not 
usually, in Europe at least, devoted to such pur- 
pose. The E^iami discharging cargo, we walked 
into the jungle, followed by a ragged tail of men 
and boys, to inspect some old Portuguese wells : 
as we traversed the village all the women fled — 
a proof that El Islam here flourishes. This part 
of the island is thinly veiled with a red argil- 
laceous soil which produces a thick and matted 
growth of thorny plants, creepers, and parasites : 
eastward, where the mould is deeper, there is 
richer vegetation, and a few stunted cocoas 
have taken root. After fighting through the 
jungle, we came upon two pits sunk in the soft 
rock : Said bin Salim was bitterly derided whilst 
he sounded the depth, 40 feet ; and by way of 
revenge, I dropped a hint about buried gold, 
which has doubtless been the cause of aching 
arms and hearts to the churls of "Wasin. There 
is no game on the Island or on the main : in the 
evening, after a warm bath amongst the man- 
groves, we left the dirty hole without a shade of 
regret. 

The coast is here concealed by the usual 
thickset hedge of verdure, above which nod the 
tufts of straggling palms : its background is the 
rocky purple wall of Bondei — Capt. Owen's 



THE WADIGO. 



Ill 



' Sheemba Range of Hills, about 1500 feet bigh ' 
— bere and tbere broken by tall blue cones. 
After 1 b. 30 min. we sighted Wanga Bandar, 
where tbe land was smoking ; tbis place has 
rarely tbe honour of appearing in maps. Tbe 
environs belong to the Wadigo, amongst whom 
Said bin Salim lost a slave-girl : she had gone on 
leave of absence to her tribe, and though she 
never returned, he received from her an annual 
remittance of a dollar. These people, who are 
divided into half-a-dozen clans, occupy a fine 
high country which extends westward to Usum- 
bara : they dwell in large villages, fenced to 
keep out the Wamasai, and they are agricultur- 
ists, fond of Jete, or public markets, at which they 
dispose of their grain to the coast-traders. Those 
whom we saw were poor-looking men : their 
bows were well turned and bent, with brass knobs 
and strings of cowgut ; the notched and neatly 
feathered arrows had triangular iron piles. The 
women, who veiled the bosom, were remarkably 
plain, and apparently had never seen a European. 
These Wadigo with their southern neighbours, 
the Wasegeju, are porters of the inland traffic. 
Caravans, if they may so be called, numbering 
sometimes a hundred men, slaves included, set 
out at the beginning of the rains in March or 



112 



CARAVANS. 



April, from Wanga and other little ' Bandars ' 
on the coast. If the capital be $1000, they dis- 
tribute it into $400 of beads, and brass and iron 
wires (Nos. 7 and 8), with $400 of American 
domestics and cotton-stuffs of sorts : the remain- 
der serves to pay 40 porters, who each receive 
$10 per trip, half before starting and the rest 
upon return. After twenty days' march, these 
trading parties arrive at Umasai and the ad- 
jacent countries ; they remain there bartering for 
three or four months, and then march back laden 
with ivory and driving a few slaves purchased en 
route. 

Our Nakhoda again showed symptoms of 
' dodging : ' he had been allowed to ship cargo 
from Mombasah to Wasin, and thereupon he 
founded a claim or rather a right to carry goods 
from Wasin to Tanga. Unable to disabuse his 
mind by mild proceedings, I threatened to cut 
the cable, and thus once more, the will of Japhet 
prevailing over that of Shem, we succeeded 
about 1 P.M., not without aid from an Omani 
craft, in hauling up our ground-tackle. The old 
Biami, groaning in every rib, flirted with some 
reefs, and floated into the open sea, whose combing 
waves were foaming under a stiff N. Easter. As 
we sped merrily along Said bin Salim busied him- 



TANG A BAY. 



113 



self in calculating the time it would take to 
round the several promontories. But when the 
water smoothened under the lee of Pemba Island 
he became bold enough to quote these martial 
lines : — 

' I have backed the steed since my eyes saw light, 
And have fronted Death till he feared my sight ; 
And the riven helm and the pierced mail 
"Were my youthtide's dream, are my manhood's delight.* 

After two hours of brisk sailing, we lay abreast of 
a headland called by our crew Kwala (Chala 
Point of the Hydrographic Map), bounding the 
deep inlet and outlying islets of Jongolia-ni or 
Chongolia-ni. Approaching the gape of Tanga 
Bay, he shortened sail, or we might have made it 
at 4 P.M. : the entrance, however, is intricate ; 
we had no pilot, and the crew preferred hobbling 
in under a bit of artemon or foresail, which they 
took a good hour to hoist. At sunset, having 
threaded the ' Bab ' or narrow rock-bound pass- 
age which separates Ba'as Rashid, the north- 
ern mainland-spit, a precipitous bluff some 20 
feet high, from the head of Tanga Islet, we 
glided into the smooth bay, and anchored in 
three fathoms, opposite and about half a mile 
from the town, which is known by the cocoas 
and calabashes crowning the ridge. 

VOL. II. 8 



114 



TANG A BAY. 



Tanga Bay is placed by Captain Owen in S. 
lat. 4"^ 35', or five miles N. of Wasin Island, and 
thus the positions of the whole Coast are throw^n 
out.^ It is in S. lat. 5"^; South of Wasin, and be- 
tween that place and the mouth of the Panga-ni 
river. This extraordinary error can have been 
made only by a confusion of the survey-sheets, and 
it appears the more singular in a work of such 
correctness. The inlet, called probably from its 

1 Sheet X. from S. lat. 6° 38' to S. lat. 4° 23' (Tom Shoal) 
is the offending member in commission and omission. It 
places Chala (Kwala) point 14 instead of 45 miles North of 
Tanga, and thus the latter, which is parallel with the Northern 
third of Pemba Island, is thrown 25 miles north of it. Wasin 
Island, between Mombasah and Tauga, is transferred five miles 
South of the latter. It also omits the ruins of Mtangata. North 
of this, the ' Island and Ports of Mombaza ' are remarkably 
correct, but further North again the Coast, owing to the sick- 
ness of the surveyors, was perfunctorily laid down : they seem 
not to have landed at Makdishu, nor to have sought the debou- 
chure of the Juba river. The late Lieut. Carless, I.N., did 
not extend his admirable labours beyond Ea'as Hafun. South- 
ward, also, many important places were left unnoticed by Capt. 
Owen. The Eufiji river is omitted, and the Tanchi inlet (about 
S. lat. 9° 55'), a little above the mouth of the Lindi river, 
does not appear upon the chart : it was till lately a nest of 
slavers, who shared their secret with certain Zanzibar merchants, 
till unpleasantly disturbed by H. B. Majesty's ship Grecian. 
In a return made to the House of Commons from the Hydro- 
graphic Department (1848) it was stated that ' many researches 
might probably be made from Delagoa Bay to the Eed Sea ' ; 
I therefore proposed (April 19, 1856) a fresh survey of the 
Coast, but the project found an obstacle in the Persian War. 



TANG A BAY. 



115 



shape, Tanga, the sail, or kilt, is five miles deep 
by four broad, and the entrance is partially bar- 
red by a coralline bank, the site of the ancient 
Arab settlement. Tanga Islet, a lump of green, 
still contains a scatter of huts, and a small square 
stone Gurayza (fort), whose single gun lies dis- 
mounted : it is well wooded, but the water obtain- 
ed by digging pits in the sand is scarcely pota- 
ble. As a breakwater it is imperfect during the 
N. East trades : when a high sea rolls up ships 
must anchor under the mainland, and when the 
S. West monsoon blows home it is almost impos- 
sible to leave the harbour without accident. The 
bay, embanked with abundant verdure and sur- 
rounded by little settlements, receives the contents 
of two fresh- water streamlets : westward (SIP) is 
the Mtofu, and N. of it (355^) the Mto Mvo-ni ^ 
or Kiboko-ni — Hippopotamus river. The latter 
at several miles distant from its mouth must be 
crossed in a ferry ; it alffords sweet water, but the 
people of Tanga prefer scratching into their sand 

1 Mvo is the Mvubu of the Kafir tongues : here the gener- 
ally used term for the Hippopotamus is Kiboko. I agree with 
the Rev. Mr Wakefield (p. 307), that the diminutive forms, 
Kiboko, plural Yiboko (Yiboko-ni, p. 316), are preferred to the 
root-name Boko, plural Maboko. It may, however, be doubt- 
ed if Boko, like Lima, be not the intensitive of Mboko and 
Mlima, a hippopotamus and a mountain. 



116 



TANG A TOWN. 



to the trouble of fetching the pure element. The 
' Kiboko ' is found in small numbers at the em- 
bouchures of these islands, and often within a few 
yards of where the boys bathed. I defer an ac- 
count of our sport till we meet that unamiable 
pachyderm upon the Panga-ni river. 

Like all the towns of the ' Mrima ' proper, 
which here, I have said, begins, Tanga is a 
patch of thatched pent-roofed huts, built upon a 
bank overlooking the sea in a straggling grove 
of cocoa and calabash. The population is laid 
down at 4000 to 5000 souls, including 20 Ban- 
yans and 15 Baloch, with the customary con- 
sumptive Jemadar. The citizens are chiefly 
occupied with commerce, and they send twice a 
year in May to June and in October to November, 
after the Great and Little Rains, trading parties 
to Chaga and Umasai. At such times they find 
on the way an abundance of water : the land, 
however, supplies no food. Prom Tanga to 
Mhina-ni (the place of Mhina, Henna, or the P.N. 
of man, in Herr Petermann's Map ' Mikihani,' 
and in Mr "Wakefield Mihinani), on the Upper 
Panga-ni river, passing between Mbaramo and 
Pare, are 13 marches : here the road divides, one 
branch leading northward to Chaga, the other 
westward across the river to the Wamasai's 



CABA VANS. 



117 



country. The total would be 15 stages, at least 
20 days for men carrying ^ merchandise. These 
caravans are seldom short of 400 to 500 men, 
Arabs and "Wasawahili, Pagazi or free porters 
who carry 50 lbs. each, and slaves. The imports 
are chiefly cotton-stuffs, iron wires (Senyenge), 
brass wires (Masango), and beads, of which some 
400 varieties are current in these countries. The 
usual return consists chiefly of ivory, per annum 
about 70,000 lbs., we were told — a quantity 
hardly credible. I heard of some gold dust from 
Umasai being sent as a specimen to Sayyid 
Mayed : they bring also a few slaves, some small 
mangey camels, and half- wild asses.^ The citizens 

» Mr AVakefield (J. E. G. Society for 1870, p. 304) gives 
11 marches : of these, however, 4 are 12 hour marches, 2 are 
of 8 hours, 1 is of 7 hours, and 4 are of 6 hours. 

^ The following is a native list of the stages between Tanga 
and Chaga : I leave it as written in 1857, and the reader will 
find the first part almost identical with Mr Wakefield's Eoute 
No. 1. I was surprised to see the coincidence. 

1. Tanga to Bwetti : 1 whole day (others say two), through 
the AVadigo and Wasegeju jungle to a stream. 

2. Dongo Khundu (red earth) : half a day to a day, path 
straight easy through the Wasegeju and Wadigo. 

3. The Umba river: 1 day of jungle march. 

4. The Mto Mchanga (Sand river) : 1 day of wilderness 
march. 

5. Mbaramo in the Usumbara country, many streams : 1 
day's march. The hill belongs to King Kimwere's sons, and 
some make it the 3rd station. 

6. Gonja in the Pare country : 1 long day, the men gen- 



118 



THE WA8EGEJU. 



trade with the coast-savages, and manufacture, 
from imported iron, hillhooks and hard wares for 
the Wasegeju. This tribe, once powerful, now 
uninfluential, preserves a tradition that when 
expelled with the Wasawahili from Shungaya by 
the Gallas, it migrated to the River Ozi or Dana 
(Zana), to the Bay of Kilifi, and finally to Wanga 
and Tanga. The dialect, they say, is similar to 

erally dividing it and sleeping in a jungle. Water is found 
flowing from a hill. 

7. Kisiwa-ni in Pare : 1 day jungle march. 

8. Same, at end of Pare : 1 day of jungle. 

9. The Upo-ni river in the Wakwafi country, where rob- 
bers are feared : men sleeping in the jungle 2 days. 

10. The Eufu, or Upper Panga-ni river, whose banks are 
here woody, and whose crocodile-haunted waters must be 
crossed in boats : 2 days. Here is the Mhina-ni station. 

The Chaga road does not cross the stream, but runs north- 
ward with the following stages, which are not mentioned by 
Mr Wakefield. 

1. Mhina-ni to Arusha, a populous agricultural country : 1 
day. 

2. Kiboko-ni on left bank of Panga-ni river : 1 day of 
desert march. 

3. Kahe Water of the Wakahe people: 1 long day, generally 
made 2, the people sleeping in the jungle. 

4. Chaga : 1 to 2 days under similar circumstances ; water, 
however, is found at night. 

The caravans are of course armed and ready to fight : they 
march from sunrise to 11 a.m., and from mid afternoon to sunset 
— sometimes a forced march compels them to walk all day. The 
porters carry about IJ Farsaleh. These details serve to prove 
that there are many points by which the European traveller 
can more or less safely enter the interior. 



THE WASEGEJU. 



119 



that of the Pokomo of the Dana, hence pro- 
bably ]Mr Giiillain (i. 402) declares them to have 
been incliorens of the coast about Melinde. Still 
a violent, warlike, and furious brood, as described 
by Do Couto (Decad. xi. chap, xxi.), they hunt 
the Bondei Hills for slaves, and of late years, 
havinsr sundrv blood-feuds with their neis^hbours 
the TTadigo, they have sought the protection of 
King Kimwere and of the Wazegura race south 
of the Panga-ni river. Tanga has for some time 
since been spared the mortification of the TTa- 
masai, who in this vicinity have driven and 
harried many a herd. I here saw two of their 
women, veritable human Cynocephali, fiat-head- 
ed, with receding brows a la Robespierre, eyes 
close together, long low noses with open nostrils, 
projecting muzzles, and ears in strips. The land 
is now, comparatively speaking, thickly inhabit- 
ed, and dotted with fiourishing villages, ]\Ivo-ni, 
Ambo-ni, Janja-ni, and others. 

The only modern tribe which figures in the 
history of the coast is the "Wasegeju. TTe first 
read of them in 1589, when the Zimba or 
Wazimba Kafirs, who had devastated the de- 
pendencies of Tete and Rios de Sena, on the 
Zambeze, swarmed northwards, massacring, and, 
it is said, devouring, all who opposed them 



120 



THE WASEGEJU. 



between Kilwa and Mombasah. After destroying 
Kilwa, where they are reported to have killed 
and eaten 3000 Moors, men and women, they 
appeared upon the seaboard opposite Mombasah, 
whilst Thom(5 de' Souza Continho was attacking 
the rebellious city in which the Corsair Ali 
Bey had taken refuge. The savages sided with 
the Portuguese, crossed the ford, and fell upon 
the townspeople with assegai and arrow. The 
citizens fled, preferring to face the sword and 
the musket of the Christian invader. After 
this the Zimbas marched upon Melinde, and 
threatened it with the fate of Kilwa and Mom- 
basah. But the firmness of the Sultan and 
the courage of Mattheus Mendes de Vasconcellos 
were equal to the occasion : they reinforced 
themselves with a host of 3000 Wasegeju, and 
they succeeded in annihilating the cannibals. In 
1592 the Wasegeju, again summoned to the 
assistance of Melinde, slew its enemy, the Shaykh 
of Kilifi. The last Shirazi Sultan of Mombasah, 
determining to avenge the death of his kinsmen, 
assembled 5000 wild men from the neighbouring 
hills to attack Melinde. The Wasegeju, how- 
ever, not only defeated and slew him, with three 
of his sons, and many of the chief Moslems 
who accompanied him ; they also captured Mom- 



TANG A TOWN. 



121 



basah, and sending a young son of the defunct 
Sultan to Melinde, they gave up to it a city, 
which for a whole century had been its deadly 
enemy. The name ' Mosseguaies, very barbarous/ 
appears in the map of John Senex (1712). 
The tribe is mentioned by Dr Krapf ('Wase- 
gedshu' Church Missionary Intelligencer of 
1849, p. 86), and by Mr Wakefield (Wasegeju, 
p. 212). 

We landed on the morning of Jan. 27, and 
were received with peculiar cordiality. In the 
absence of the Arab Governor, Mohammed bin 
Ali, we were met upon the seashore by Khalfan bin 
Abdillah, Hammed bin Abdillah, and the head- 
man Kibaya Mchanga, with sundry Diwans and 
Wasawihili notables ; by the Jemadar, with his 
Baloch, and by Miyan Sahib, a daft old Hindu, 
who here collects the customs. They conducted 
us up the bank to the hut formerly tenanted by 
M. Erhardt, seated us on chairs facing couches ; 
brought coffee, fruit, and milk, with a goat, 
by way of welcome, and succeeded in winning 
our hearts. That day was spent in inquiries 
about the commerce and geography of the in- 
terior, and in listening to wild tales concerning 
the ^thiopic Olympus, the Sierra Nevada of 
Eastern Africa, which Jupiter Cooley decreed to 



122 



KILIMA-NJARO. 



be eternally snowless. Most of the people here 
pronounced the word Kilima-ngao ' Mont bou- 
clier,' Ngao being the umbo or shield-boss : from 
others I heard Kilima-njaro, which in Kikwafi, 
according to the missionaries, means ' Mountain 
of Greatness.'^ Here Sheddadbin 'Ad built the 
City of Brass, and encrusted the hill-top with 
a silver dome, that shines with various and sur- 
prising colours. Here the Jann, beings made 
of fire, as humans are of earth and mermen 
of water, hold their court, andbafl9.e the attempts 
of man's adventurous feet. The mountain re- 
cedes as the traveller advances, and the higher 
he ascends the loftier rises the summit. At last 
blood bursts from the nostrils, the fingers bend 
backwards (with cramp?), and the hardiest is 
fain to stop. Amongst this Herodotian tissue 
of fact and fable ^ ran one golden thread of truth, 
— all testified to the intense cold. 

' I will not stand godfather to this name, not being aware 
that in Kikwafi there is any word ' aro ' signifying great or 
greatness. The abstract term, however, is general in South 
African languages. Mr Eebmann says it may mean the 

* Mountain of Caravans ' ( Jaro), that is to say, a landmark 
for caravans — but this is going far afield. 

2 Capt. Grant (a Walk across Africa, chap, viii.) has given 

* Jumah's Stories about Kilimanjaro.' We could not meet 
with specimens of the onyxes, carneliaus, and crystals washed 
by rain-torrents down the gorges and gullies of Kilima-njaro, 
and of which a few have found their way to the coast — hence 



PIGMIES. 



123 



Westward of the great mountain are placed 
in the ' Mombas Mission Map ' the Wabilikimo 
(Wambelikimo), 'literally the two measuring, 
i. e. twice the measure from the middle finger- 
tip to the elbow. This is of course an ex- 
aggeration, but they are no doubt a diminutiye 
race of men. They come to Jagga to trade, 
where they are called TTakoningo.' The name, 
howeyer, ' Kimo,' or Yazimba, the first occu- 
pants of Ankoya (Madagascar), is mentioned 
eyen by Eochon : he makes them a people of 
pigmies, in stature ayeraging three feet six inches, 
of a lighter colour than the negro, long-armed, 
and with short woolly hair. South of Kafa, 
again, the Doko^ race is said to be only four feet 
in stature. Formerly we explained these tra- 
ditional Blemmyes, or pigmies, by supposing 
them to be apes that haye been submitted to 
sayage exaggeration. But the state of the 
question has been completely changed since the 
Second Expedition of my friend Paul du Chail- 
lu, who, despite the late Mr John Craufurd, 

probably the ' carnelian currency ' (p. 29) of Mr Cooley's 
' Kirimanjara.' Of course such a circulation could never have 
sufficed for one-thousandth part of the interior trade, nor 
could the frozen heights of Kilima-njaro ever have 'been the 
highest ridge crossed by the road to Monomoezi.' 
^ Mdogo in Kisawahili means a short man. 



124 



PIGMIES. 



discovered the ' Obongo/ a race not only 
dwarfish, but living close to a tribe of unusually 
tall and powerful negroes : curious to say, 
they occupy about the same parallel of latitude 
as do the traditional Wabilikimo. 

In the evening we were honoured with a 
Ngoma Khu, or full orchestra, for which a dollar 
was but a paltry bakhshish, were noise worth coin . 
The spectators appeared by no means a comely 
race, but they were healthier and in far better 
condition than the churls of Wasin. I saw, 
however, amongst them many cases of leprous 
white spots on the palms and soles. We took 
leave at night, provided by the Diwans with a 
bullock and half-a-dozen goats, with fruit, and 
with milk. These headmen, who prefer to be 
entitled Sultan, are in the proportion of half-a- 
dozen per village, each one omnipotent within 
his own walls. In their presence the many- 
headed may not sit on chairs, carpets, or fine 
mats; use umbrellas, wear turbans, nor walk 
in the pattens called Kabkab : moreover, on 
solemn occasions such as this none but the 
Diwan may pace and whirl through the Pyrrhic 
dance. Said bin Salim described them as a 
kind of folk that want to eat — in fact, des escrocs : 
they accompanied us, however, gratis, on our 



THE RUINS. 



125 



various excursions, and when we went out 
shooting, our difficulty was to shirk an escort. 

Knowing that Arab and Persian colonies had 
been planted at an early epoch in this part of 
the Sawahil, I accepted with pleasure a guide 
to one of the ancient cities. Setting out at 
8 A.M. with a small body of spearmen, I walked 
four or five miles S. West of Tanga on the Mtan- 
gata road over a country dry as Arabian sand, 
and strewed with the bodies of huge millepedes. 
The hard red and yellow clays produced in 
plenty holcus and sesamum, manioc and papaws ; 
mangoes and pine-apples were rare, but the 
Jamli, or Indian damson (in Arabic Zam and in 
Kisawahili Mzambarani), the egg-plant, and the 
toddy-tree grew wild. The baobabs were in new 
leaf, the fields were burned in readiness for 
rain, and the peasants dawdled about, patting 
the clods with bits of wood. At last we tra- 
versed a Khor, or lagoon drained by the receding 
tide, and insulating the ruins : then, after a 
walk of five miles over crab-mounds, we sighted 
our destination. Erom afar it resembled an 
ancient castle. Entering by a gap in the en- 
ceinte, I found a parallelogram some 200 yards 
long, of solid coralline or lime, in places rent 
by the roots of sturdy trees, well bastioned and 



126 



CHANG A NDUMI. 



loop-holed for bows and muskets. The site is 
raised considerably above the mean level of the 
country, attesting its antiquity : it is con- 
cealed from the seaside by a screen of trees 
and by the winding creek, that leaves the canoes 
high during the ebb-tide; full water makes it 
an island. In the centre, also split by huge 
coiling creepers, and in the last stage of dilapi- 
dation, are the remains of a Mosque showing 
signs of a rude art. I was led with some pre- 
tension to a writing, perpendicularly scratched 
upon a stuccoed column: it proved to be the 
name of a lettered Msawahili — Kimangd wd 
Muamadi (Mohammed) Adi (Walad) Makamc 
— and the character was more like Kufic than 
anything that I had ever seen at Ilarar. The 
ruins of houses are scattered over the enceinte, 
and a masonry revetted and chumam'd well, sunk 
8 feet deep in the coralline, yields a sufficiency 
of water with an earthy taste. There are some 
others of similar style, but bone-dry, upon the 
creek-bank — they had probably been built from 
above, as the Arabs and Indians still do, and 
allowed to settle. The modern village of cajan- 
thatched huts, palisaded with trees, and the 
hovels of a few Wasegejgu savages, who use the 
ruins as pens for their goats, and stunted high- 



CHANG A NDUMI. 



127 



humped cows, attest present degradation. There 
were a few of the small Umasai asses, which 
are said to be useless for travelling. Amongst 
the children I remarked an Albino with flaxen 
hair and reddish-white skin, as if aflPected by 
leprosy. None of the tenants preserved any 
tradition about the place, which they call 
' Changa Ndumi.' The Arabs, however, who 
accompanied me, declared that they belonged to 
the ' old ancient ' Y'urabi, the dynasty preceding 
the present rulers of Oman ; and if so, they must 
have been built before the middle of the last 
century (a,d. 1741). We returned in time to 
witness a funeral. The mourners were women 
with blackened faces, and habited in various 
coloured clothes, unpleasantly outlining angles 
and segments of circles. They ' keened ' all day, 
and the drum paraded its monotonous sounds 
till the dawn streaked with pale light the 
shoulders of the far Bondei hills. I visited the 
little heap of cajan huts called Janja-ni, and 
lying half a mile to the north-east : here w^ere 
four civil men, Bohrahs from Hindostan, who 
lived by the cowrie trade. 

On every fifth day the Tanga people hold 
at the neighbouring village of Ambo-ni a market 
with the savages of the interior. Having 



128 



THE MARKET. 



assumed an Arab dress — a turban of portentous 
circumference, and a long henna- stained shirt — 
and accompanied by Said bin Salim with his 
Excalibur; by the consumptive Jemadar who 
sat down to rest every ten minutes, and by 
Khalfan bin Abdillah, an old Arab who had 
constituted himself cicerone, we attended the 
' Golio ' on January 29. Walking along the 
coast, we passed through a village rich in cocoas 
and in iron forges, which were hard at work : 
a school of young hopefuls was busily em- 
ployed in loud reading and in swaying the 
body. The country was pretty and fertile, 
rich in manioc and cocoas, in plantains, and 
the Eicinus shrub ; there were a few mangoes — 
the people asked for the stones to plant — and 
many Dom or Theban palms (Crucifera The- 
baica), whose bifurcations and re-bifurcations 
are so remarkable, and whose crimson fruit is 
eaten as in West Africa. Formerly the land 
was harried by the beef-eating Wamasai, hence 
the scarcity of cattle. After two miles we 
crossed some tidal creeks, corded over with creep- 
ers, and tree roots growing from black mire ; we 
waded a sandy inlet, and we forded the small 
sweet surface drain Mtofu, which had water up 
to the waist. Another mile brought us to the 



THE MARKET. 



129 



Ptiver Mvo-ni (of Beliemoth), here called the 
Zigi — two names in three miles, a truly African 
fashion I Salted by the tide, it flows under banks 
forty to fifty feet liio^h, crowned with calabash 
and other jungle trees. Women were being 
ferried oyer : in ecstasies of terror they buried 
their faces between their knees till the moment 
of danger had passed away. These sayages are 
by no means a maritime race, they haye no 
boats, they rarely fish, and being unable to s\^'im, 
they are stopped by the narrowest stream unless 
they can bridge it by felling a tree in the right 
direction, as it is said the beayers do. 

Haying crossed the riyer, we trayersed plant- 
ations of cocoas and plantains, and ascending a 
steep hill, we foimd, after fiye miles of walking, 
the market 'warm,' as Easterns say, upon the 
seaward slope. All Tanga was there. The wild 
people, Vasumbara and AYashenzi,^ T\^adigo and 
Wasegeju, were clothed in greasy hides and 
cotton wrappers of inyeterate grime. Eyery 
man carried his bow and arrow, his knobstick 

1 The Moslems of the islands and the coast call all the pa- 
gans TVashenzi, and the word is opposed to Mbaji — a Moslem 
generally — and to AVazumba, the AVasawihili of the northern 
region. On the continent it is, I have said, applied to a servile 
or helot caste, originally from the S. West of the Panga-ni 
river, and afterwards settled in Bondei. 

VOL. II. • 9 



130 



THE FAIR. 



(E^ungo), his club, his sword, and his shield, but 
few owned muskets. Some had come from afar, 
as was shown by their low wooden stools and 
small churning staves. The women were more 
numerous, and harder worked ; the girls were 
bare-breasted, and every matron had her babe 
tied in a bundle to the back, its round black 
head nodding with every movement of the ma- 
ternal person. Yet it never cries — that model 
baby ! They carried, besides masses of beads 
strung round the neck, zinc and brass armlets all 
down the arms, and huge collars and anklets of 
metal, heavy loads of valuable stuff ; and others 
sat opposite their belongings, chaffering and ges- 
ticulating upon knotty questions of fragmentary 
farthings. These ill-used and hard-favoured be- 
ings, with patterns burnt into their skins, paid 
toll for ingress at a place where cords were 
stretched across the path, a primitive style of 
raising octroi. The Eedawin exchanged their 
lean sheep and goats, cocoas and bananas, grain 
and ghee, for white and blue cottons, beads, and 
rude iron ware — knives, bills, and hatchets, made 
on the coast of metal brought from Zanzibar. The 
luxuries were dried fish, salt, Tembo or cocoa - 
toddy, spices, needles and thread, fish-hooks, and 
bluestone used in their rude medicine, formerly 



THE FAIR. 



131 



a large quantity of ivory found its way to the 
' Golio ' ; now it is purchased in the interior by 
trading parties. The groups, gathered under the 
several trees, were noisy, but civil to us. Often, 
however, a lively scene, Avorthy of Donnybrook 
in its palmiest days, takes place, knobstick and 
dagger being used by the black factions as freely 
as fists and shillelaghs in more civilized lands. 
At noon we returned over the sands which were 
strewed with sea-slugs, and in places choetodons 
lay dead in the sun. The heat of the ground 
made my bare-footed companions run from time 
to time for the shade, like the dogs in Tibet. 

Sundry excursions delayed us six days at 
Tanga. We failed to bag any hippopotamus, the 
animals being here very timid. A herd of six, 
commanded by a large black old male, gave us a 
few long shots ; at first the beasts raised the whole 
head and part of the neck ; afterwards nothing but 
the eyes were exposed. The people declare that 
they always charge a man who has left a preg- 
nant wife at home. Our only result was the 
dropping of my big Beattie (2 barrelled, 24 lbs.) 
into the water. I had fired it when sittins; in a 
mangrove tree, and ' purchase ' being wanted, I 
narrowly escaped following it. The river, how- 
ever, was only 2 fathoms deep, and we presently 



132 



MTANGATA. 



recovered it by diving : the Arabs usually claim 
half the value of things thus reclaimed. 

Our visit ended with a distribution of em- 
broidered caps and Jamdani muslins, and we re- 
ceived farewell visits till dark. At 5 a.m. on Eeb. 
2nd5 after a sultry night varied by bursts of rain, 
which sounded like buckets sluicing the poop, 
we drifted out to sea under the influence of the 
Barri or land-breeze. Five hours of lazy sailing 
ran us to an open road between Tanga and Pan- 
ga-ni, called Mtangata, which, according to the 
guides, was derived from the people living on 
toasted grains during war or famine. It is 
evidently the Portuguese ' Montagane,' whose 
Shaykh, with 200 men, assisted in 1528 Nuno 
da Cunha against the Sultan of Mombasah. 
Exposed to the jS". East wind, and imperfectly 
defended by two low and green-capped islets, 
Yambe (North) and Karangii (East), it is ren- 
dered by the surf and rollers of the Indian Ocean 
a place of trembling to the coast sailors. The 
country appears fertile, and a line of little vil- 
lages, Kisizi, Marongo, Tamba-ni, and others, 
skirt the shore. Here we spent the day, in order 
to inspect some ruins, where we had been pro- 
mised Persian inscriptions and other curios. 

After casting anchor, I entered a canoe and 



TONGO-NI RUINS. 



133 



was paddled across a bay once solid ground, in 
whose encroaching waters, according to local 
tradition, a flourishing city, extending over the 
whole creek side, had been submerged. The sub- 
marine tombs were like those of the Dead Sea : 
apparent to the Wasawahili's eyes, they eluded 
mine. The existing settlements are all modern, 
and none of them appear upon Capt. Owen's 
charts. After an hour's work we pushed up a 
narrow creek, grounding at every ten yards, and 
presently we reached an inlet, all mangrove 
above and mud below. Landing at a village 
called Tongo-ni, where the people stood to receive 
us, we followed the shore for a few paces, turned 
abruptly to the left, over broken ground, and 
sighted the ruins. 

Moonlight would have tempered the view : 
it was a grisly spectacle in the gay and glow- 
ing shine of the sun. A city was once here ; 
and the remnants of its mosques showed solid 
and handsome building, columns of neatly cut 
coralline blocks and elaborate Mihrabs, or prayer- 
niches. Fragments of homesteads in times gone 
by everywhere cumbered the ground, and the 
shattered walls, choked with the luxuriant growth 
of decay, sheltered in their shade the bat and the 
night-jar. I was shown in an extensive ceme- 



134 



TONGO-NI RUINS. 



tery the grave of a Wali or Santon, whose very 
name had perished. His last resting-place, how- 
ever, was covered with a cajan roof, floored with 
tamped earth, cleanly swept and garnished with 
a red and white 'flag. Other tombs bore caco- 
phonous Wasawahili appellations embalmed in 
mortally bad Arabic epitaphs : these denoted an 
antiquity of about 200 years. Beyond the legend 
above noticed, none could give me information 
concerning the people that have passed away : 
the architecture, however, denoted a race far 
superior to the present owners of the land. 

Each of the principal mausolea had its tall 
stele of cut coralline, denoting, like the Egyptian 
and Syrian Shahadali, the position of the corpse's 
head. In one of these, the gem of the place, 
was fixed a chipped fragment of Persian glazed 
tile, with large azure letters in the beautiful 
character called ' Euka'a,' enamelled on a dirty- 
yellow ground. The legend, ^^^^ (Shid i 
raushan, the 'bright sun'), may be part of a 
panegyrical or devotional verse removed from the 
frieze of some tomb or mosque. The country 
people hold it an impregnable proof that the men 
qf Ajem once ruled in Tongo-ni:^ but the tile, 

^ Eor the Persian ruins on this coast the reader will consult 
Herr Eichard Branner's Eorschungen in Ost Afrika, Mittheil- 
ungen, 1868. 



THE PERSIAN TILE. 



135 



like two China platters, also mortared into the 
Shahadah, is evidently an importation from the 
far north. It was regarded with superstitious 
reverence hj the Wasawahili, who informed me 
that some years before Kimwere, Sultan of 
Usumbara, had sent a party of bold men to bear 
it away : of these, nineteen died mysterious 
deaths, and the relic was thereupon returned to 
its place. A few muslins, here representing 
dollars, had a wonderful effect upon their fancies : 
I was at once allowed by the principal Diwan to 
remove it ; although no one would bear a hand 
to aid the Beni Nar, or Sons of Fire, as the 
Arabs honourably style our countrymen. The 
tile, a common encaustic affair, found its way 
to the Royal Geographical Society ; nor did the 
East African expedition feel itself the worse for 
having sent it. We did not visit the Tamba-ni 
settlement, where, according to the people, there 
is a coralline mosque, and tombs are to be seen 
under the sea water. 

Our purchase concluded, we returned to the 
Riami, followed by the headmen, who after re- 
freshment of dates, Maskat Halwa (sweetmeats), 
and coffee, naturally became discontented with the 
promised amount of 'hishmat,' or honorarium. 
At last they begged us to return, and to assist 



136 



PANGA-NL 



them in digging for sweet water. There were 
four or five carefully-built wells in the ruined 
city ; but all had been exhausted by age, and the 
water supplied by the lowland-pits was exceed- 
ingly nauseoiis. As a rule, these people readily 
apply for advice and assistance to the 'Wa- 
zungu,' or wise-men, as Europeans are styled ; 
and if showers chance to accompany the traveller, 
he is looked upon as a beneficent being, not 
without a suspicion of white magic. Here, with 
$6, we took leave of pleasant old Khalfan, our 
guide, a veteran, but still hale and vigorous : no 
Omani Arab is, I may again remark, worth his 
salt till his beard is powdered by Time. 

At 5 A.M. on February 3rd, having shipped a 
pilot, we hoisted sail ; after three hours we ran 
past Maziwi Island and slipped down before the 
light and tepid morning breeze to the port of 
Panga-ni. It was necessary to land with some 
ceremony at a place which I determined to make 
our starting-point into the interior. Presently 
after arrival I sent Said bin Salim, in all his 
bravery, to deliver the Sayyid of Zanzibar's cir- 
cular letters addressed to the Willi, or Governor, 
to the Jemadar, to the Collector of Customs, and 
to the several Diwans. All this preparation for 
a trifle of 80 miles ! But we are in Africa ; and 



THE DANCE. 



137 



even in Europe such a raid through an enemy's 
country is not always easy. 

My companion and I landed in the cool of 
the evening with our Portuguese servants and 
our luggage. We were received with all honours 
of noise and crowdins^. The orchestra consisted 
of three monstrous drums (Xgoma Khu). 
caissons of cocoa-trunk, covered at both ends 
with goat-leather, and pounded, like the pul- 
pit, with fist ; and of Siwa or bassoons of hard 
blackwood, at least five feet long. These were 
enlivened by a pair of Zumari, or flageolets, whose 
vile squeaking set the teeth on edge ; by the 
Zeze, or guitar ; the Kinanda, or banjo ; by the 
Barghumi or Kudu horn ; and by that instru- 
ment of dignity, the Upatu, a brass pan, the primi- 
tive cymbal, whose bottom is performed upon by 
little sticks like cabbage-stalks. The Jemadar, 
Asad XJllah, came en grand' tenue. The Diwans 
capered and pyrrhic'd before us with the pomp 
and circumstance of drawn • swords, whilst the 
prettiest of the slave girls, bare-headed and with 
hair a la Brutus, sang and flapped their skirts 
over the ground, performing a pa vane with a very 
modest and downcast demeanour, as if treading 
upon a too hot floor. They reminded me of a 
deceased friend's clever doggrel — 



138 



THE DANCE. 



Tou look so demure, ma'am, so quiet, so calm, 
Ever chanting a hymn, ever singing a psalm ; 
Yet your thoughts are on heaven and virtue no more 
Than the Man's in the Moon '— 

And as the dance waxed warm certain move- 
ments of the loins appeared, as might be expected. 
A crowd of half-breeds and sooty sons of Africa 
stood around to enjoy the 'pi-pi' of the flutes, 
the ' bom-bom ' of the huge drums, the mjimbo 
(singing) of the men, and the yijelejeh (lullaloo- 
ing) of the women. After half-an-hour's endur- 
ance of this purgatory we were led to our sleep- 
ing place, the upper rooms, or rather room, of 
the Wall or Governor's house — its owner was 
one Meriko, a burly black freedman of the late 
Sayyid Said — and there the evening was spent 
by us over considerations of ways and means. 



CHAPTER VI. 



PROM PANGA-NI TOWN TO TONGWE OUTPOST. THE 
BALOCH GUARD. 

Ma tutta insieme poi tra verdi sponde 
In profondo canal Pacqua s'aduna, 

E sotto I'ombra di perpetua fronde 
Mormorando sen va gelida e bruna ; 

Ma transparente si, che non asconde 

Del imo letto sua vaghezza alcima. Tasso. 

In the heroic ages of Bruce and Mungo Park, 
Denham and Clapperton, Hornemann and Cailli^, 
African travel had a prestige which, after living 
through a generation, came, as is the fate of all 
things sublunary, to a natural end. The public 
glutted with adventure and invention, which the 
' damnable license of printing ' ushered into the 
world, soon suffered from the humours of a severe 
surfeit : it learned to nauseate the monotonous 
tale of rapine, treachery, and murder ; of ugly and 



140 



AFRICAN TRAVEL. 



unsavoury savagery — the mala gens, as was said 
anent certain South countrymen, of a bona terra 
— of bleared misery by day and animated impurity 
by night, and of hunting adventures and hair- 
breadth escapes, which often made the reader re- 
gret the inevitable absence of a catastrophe. It 
felt the dearth of tradition and monuments of the 
olden time, the lack of romance, variety, and 
history, whilst the presence of a ' future,' almost 
too remote for human interest, was rather an ag- 
gravation than a palliation of the evil. A tem- 
porary revival of interest was, it is true, recited 
by the Egyptian hippopotamus and Gordon Gum- 
ming' s trophies : Livingstone's first journey and 
Paul du Chaillu's gorilla also caused a tran- 
sient burst of enthusiasm. But this soon had its 
day, and the night that followed was darker than 
before. In fact it still glooms. 

Yet African travel still continues to fulfil all 
the conditions of attractiveness as laid down by 
that great city authority, Leigh Hunt. The 
theme has remoteness and obscurity of place, 
difference of custom, marvellousness of hearsay ; 
events passing strange yet credible; sometimes 
barbaric splendour, generally luxuriance of na- 
ture, savage life, personal danger and suffering 
always borne (in books) with patience, dignity, 



AFRICAN TRAVEL. 



141 



and even enthusiasm. Moreover, no hours are 
more fraught with smiling recollections to the 
author : nothing can be more charming than the 
contrast between his vantage ground of present 
ease, as he takes up his pen at home, and that past 
perspection of want, hardships, and accidents upon 
which he gazes through the softening, beautify- 
ing atmosphere of time. And the animus of the 
writer must to some extent inspire his readers. 

We arose early in the morning after making 
Panga-ni, and repaired to the terrace for the bet- 
ter enjoyment of the view. The river- vista, with 
cocoa avenues to the north, with yellow cliffs 
on the southern side, some 40 feet high, abrupt 
as those of the Indus, and green clad above ; 
with a distance of plum-blue hill, upon which eye 
and mind both love to rest ; the mobile swelling 
water bounded by strips of emerald verdure and 
golden sand, and the still and azure sea dotted 
with ' diabolitos,' little black rocks, not improperly 
called ' devilings,' wanted nothing but the finish 
and polish of art to bring out the infinite variety, 
the rude magnificence of nature. A few grey 
ruins upon the hills would enable it to compare 
with the most admired prospects of the Rhine, 
without looking as if it had been made pictur- 
esque by contrast, to attract tourists, and with 



142 



PANGA-NL 



half-a-dozen white Kiosks and Serais, minarets 
and latticed summer villas, it would almost rival 
that gem of creation, the Bosphorus. 

Panga-ni^ 'in the hole,' or ' between the high- 
lands,' as was said of the River Lee, and its 
smaller neighbour, Kumba, hug the left or north- 
ern bank of its river : the site is a flat Maremma 
bounded by the sea and by a hill range, ten or 
eleven miles distant. Opposite are Mbweni and 
Mzimo Mpia, small villages built under tall bluffs 
of yellow sandstone, precipitous and impenetrably 
covered with wild growth. The stream which 
separates these rival pairs of settlements may be 
200 yards broad : the mouth has an ugly line of 
bar-breakers, awash at low tide ; the only fair- 
way course is a narrow channel to the south, 
and the entrance is intricate, with reef and 
shoal. This in Capt. Owen's time was some 12 
feet deep : now it it is reduced to seven or eight : 
although a report had been spread that the 
' Shah Allum ' had crossed it, nothing but country 
craft can safely enter, as some of our enterprising 
compatriots have discovered, to their cost. Pan- 
ga-ni Bay is shown to the mariner by its ' ver- 

^ The Arabs, who have no P, must change it to an F, e.g. 
Fanga-ni and Fagazi for Pagazi, a porter. The latter word is 
ridiculously enough turned into a verb, e.g. ' ba-yatafaggazu, 
' they act carriers.' 



PAXGA-NI TOWN. 



143 



durous wall ' of palms and by its dotting of small 
dark rocks; by Maziwi Island, a green-capped 
gem in a bezel of golden sand, bearing S. East, 
and southwards by the yellow cliffs of Mbweni. 
Vessels lie snugly in the outer roads, but when 
making the inner harbour even Hamid, most 
niggardly of Suris, expended a dollar upon a 
pilot. At low water in the dry season the bed of 
this tidal stream is partly exposed, and its pro- 
duce during the flow is briny as the main : the 
rains cause it to swell with the hill-freshets, and 
then it becomes almost potable. The wells pro- 
duce heavy and brackish drink, but who, ask the 
people, will take the trouble to fetch sweeter ? 
The climate is said to be tolerably healthy; 
throughout the long and severe rainy monsoon, 
however, the place is rich in dysenteries and in 
fatal bilious remittents. 

Panga-ni boasts some 19 or 20 stone houses of 
the usual box style : the rest is a mass of cajan 
huts, each with its large and mat-encircled patio 
or courtyard, whose outer lines form the streets, 
and wherein almost all the business of life is 
transacted. The settlement is surrounded by 
a thick thorny jungle, harbouring not a few 
leopards. One of these felines lately scaled the 
high terrace of our house, and seized a slave- 



144 



THE THREE CS. 



girl : lier master, the burly W^li, who was sleep- 
ing by her side, snatched up his sword, hurried 
into the house and bolted the door, heedless of 
the miserable cry, 'B'ana, help me ! ' The 
wretch was carried into the jungle, and incon- 
tinently devoured. As full of crocodiles is the 
river : whilst we were at Panga-ni a boy disap- 
peared. When asked by strangers why they do 
not kill their crocodiles and burn their bush, the 
people reply that the former bring good luck, 
and that the latter is a fort to which they can 
fly when need drives them. Plantains, arecas, 
and cocoas grow all about the town ; around it 
are plantations of papaws, betel, and Jamlis, 
whilst further lie extensive Shambas, or planta- 
tions, of holcus, maize, sesamum, and other grains. 
The clove flourishes, and, as elsewhere upon the 
Zanzibar coast, a little cotton is raised for house- 
hold purposes ; it will be long, however, before 
East-African cotton can influence the English 
market, and as yet it has proved only a snare 
and a delusion. A notable and narrow-minded 
party-cry of these modern days, as applied to 
Africa, are the three Cs — Cotton, Civilization, 
and Christianity : they ' pay,' however, better 
than to beg in the name of roads and schools, 
steamers and steam engines — the true means 



CATTLE. 



145 



which will eventually lead to the wished-for end. 

Animals are here rare. Cows soon die after 
eating the grass, and even the Banyans despair 
of keeping them alive. Sheep are scarcely to he 
found, and goats, being almost wild, give very 
little milk, and that only before yeaning. But 
fish is abundant ; poultry thrives, as it does all 
over Africa, though not so much on the coast as 
in the interior ; and, before the late feuds began, 
clarified butter, that ' one source ' of the outer 
East, was cheap and plentiful. Made in the in- 
terior by the Wazegura, and other Washenzi, 
with rich milk, stored in clean vessels, and sold 
when fresh, it reminded me of the J'aferabadi 
' Ghi,' so celebrated throughout Western India. 

Panga-ni, with its three neighbours, may con- 
tain a total of 4000 inhabitants, Arabs and 
Wasawahili, slaves and heathenry : of these a 
large proportion are feminines and concubines. 
Twenty Banyans manage the lucrative ivory 
trade of the Chaga, Xguru, and TJmasai coun- 
tries, which produce the whitest, largest, heaviest, 
softest, and, perhaps, finest ivory known. The 
annual export is said to be 35,000 lbs., besides 
1750 lbs. of black rhinoceros horn, and 160 lbs. 
of hippopotamus' teeth; the latter is an article 
which, since porcelain teeth were invented, has 

TOL. II. 10 



146 



TRADE. 



lost in value. ^ The other exports are holcus, 
maize, ghi, and Zanzibar rafters, cut near the 
river mouth, and up stream. 

Trading parties travel to the TJmasai, Chaga, 
and Nguru countries at all seasons, even when 
the rainy monsoon makes the higher Panga-ni 
difficult to cross. As many as 1000 Wasawahili 
and slavers, directed by a few Arabs, set out, 
laden with iron and brass wires (Nos. 7 and 8), 
some 50 of the former to 3 of the latter ; with 
small brass chains which, fastened together, are 
used as kilts Mkif u) by the Wamasai ; with Ame- 
rican domestics, indigo-dyed calicoes (Kiniki), 
and checks, Avith beads of sorts, especially th(^ 
white and the blue. Each man carries a pack 
worth from $15 to $25 : consequently the total 
venture is of £4000. The caravan reaches its 
ground in about 20 days, and returns after a 
period varying between two and six months. The 
purchase of slaves is not on a large scale ; nor is the 

^ Yet it has not become wholly obsolete. Mr Henry Adrian 
Churchill, C.B., formerly H. M.'s Consul, Zanzibar, when 
examined before the Select Committee on slave trade (July 
13, 1871), made the total amount of exportation from Zan- 
zibar Island, $1,527,800. Of this $100,000 represented copal ; 
$2400 stood for hippopotamus' teeth ; $GG8,G00 for ivory ; and 
$270,000 for slaves. Thus no notice of cowries is taken ; and 
the trade rivalry of H.M. Eegis and Fabre has succeeded in 
])utting down the shell-money. 



USURY. 



U7 



coast journey distinguislied by inhumamty. Here 
the free traveller dies as frequently as the servile. 
The merchants complain loudly of the ' Pagazi,' 
or porters : these fellows are prepaid §10 for 
the trip, and the proprietor congratulates him- 
self if, after payment, only 15 per cent, abscond. 
The Hindu's profit must here be enormous, I 
saw one man to whom $26,000 were owed by the 
people. 'V\^hat part do interest and compound 
interest play in making up such a sum, when even 
Europeans will demand 40 per cent, for moneys 
lent on safe mortgage or bottomry ? We heard of 
another case, in which a bond worth $60, and 
sold for $30, became, by post-obits and other 
processes, $10,000 : the affair was referred to the 
Zanzibar Government, which allowed $1000 by 
way of indemnification. Some of their gains are 
swallowed up by the rapacity of these savages, 
whose very princes are inveterate beggars. The 
pliant Banyan always avoids refusals, like the di- 
plomatic Spaniard, ' saying no, although he may 
do no ' ; consequently he will find at his door 
every evening some 70 or 80 suitors, who 
besiege him with cries for grain, butter, or a 
little oil. 

After the dancing ceremony arose a variety of 
difficulties, resulting from the African traveller's 



148 



FEUDS, 



twin banes — the dollar and the blood-feud. Pan- 
ga-ni, Mbweni, and the other settlements on this 
coast, nominally belong, by right of conquest and 
succession,, to the Sayyid of Zanzibar, who in- 
vests and confirms the Governors and Diwans. 
At Panga-ni, however, these officials are par 
conge d'^lire, selected by Kimwere, Sultan of 
TJsumbara, whose ancestors received tribute from 
the Mountains of Pare eastward to the Indian 
Ocean, and who still claims the northern vil- 
lages. On the other hand, Mbweni and the 
southern settlements are in the territory of the 
Wazegura, a violent and turbulent tribe, in- 
veterate slave-dealers, and cunning at kidnap- 
ping, whilst the Christian merchants of Zanzibar 
have been thoughtlessly allowed by the Prince 
Pregnant to supply them freely wdth muskets and 
ammunition. Of course the two tribes, Wasum- 
bara and Wazegura, are inveterate, deadly foes : 
moreover, about a year ago, a violent intestine 
feud broke out amongst the latter, who at the 
time of our visit were "burning and plundering, 
selling and murdering one another in all direc- 
tions. About two months had passed since they 
had cut the throat of one Moyya, a slave be- 
longing to the Sayyid of Zanzibar ; and, as usual, 
the murder was left unpunished. The citizens of 



THE DOLLARS. 



149 



Panga-ni, 'therefore, hearing that we were bearers 
of a letter from the Sayyid of Zanzibar to Sultan 
Kimwere, marked out for us the circuitous route 
via Mtangata, where no plundering Wazegura 
from the south of the Panga-ni river could try 
their valour. We, on the other hand, wishing 
to inspect that same stream, determined upon 
proceeding by the directest line, along its left or 
northern bank. The timid townsmen had also 
circulated a report that we were bound for Chaga 
and Kilima-njaro ; the Wamasai were ' out,' the 
rains were setting in, and the}" saw us without 
armed escort. They resolved, therefore, not to 
accompany us; but nevertheless did each man 
expect his gift of dollars and his bribe of in- 
ducement. 

The expense of the journey was an even 
more serious consideration. In these lands the 
dollar is almighty. If it be lacking, you must 
travel alone, unaccompanied, at least, by any but 
blacks ; without other instrument but a pocket- 
compass, and with few weapons. You must con- 
form to every nauseous custom ; you will be sub- 
jected at the most interesting points to perpetual 
stoppages ; the contents of your note-book will 
be well-nigh worthless ; and unless you be one 
in a million, you may make up your mind that 



150 



MUIGNI KHATIB. 



want and hardship will conduct you to illness 
and perhaps to death. This is one extreme, 
and from it to the other there is no 'golden 
mean.' With ahundance of money — say £5000 
per annum — an exploring party in these parts 
could trace its own line, paying off all opposers. 
It could study, if it pleases, even infusoria; 
handle sextants in the presence of negroes, who 
would willingly cut every throat for one inch of 
brass ; and, by travelling comfortably, it would 
secure the best chance of return. Either from 
Mombasah or from Panga-ni we might have 
marched through the plundering Wamasai to 
Chaga and Kilima-njaro ; but an escort of at least 
100 matchlocks would have been necessary. Pay, 
porterage, and provisions for such a party would 
have amounted to at least £100 per week ; and a 
month and a half would have absorbed the whole 
of our scanty supplies. Thus it was, gentle 
reader, that we were compelled to rest contented 
with a walking trip to Puga. 

Presently the plot thickened. Muigni Kha- 
tib, eldest son and lieir of Sultan Kimwere, a 
black of unprepossessing physiognomy, with a 
' villainous trick of the eye and a foolish hanging 
of the nether lip ; ' a prognathous jaw garnished 
with cat-like mustachios and cobweb beard ; with 



BAKHSHISH. 



151 



a sour frown and abundant surliness by way of 
dignity, dressed like an Arab, and raised above 
his fellows by El Islam, sent a presumptuous 
message requesting us to place in his hands 
what we intended for his father. This chief was 
then journeying to Zanzibar with fear and trem- 
bling : he had tried to establish at his village, 
Kir ore, a Romulian asylum for fugitive slaves, 
and having partially succeeded in enticing away 
many ruffians, he dreaded the consequences. The 
Baloch Jemadar strongly urged us privily to 
cause his detention in the Island, a precaution 
somewhat too Oriental for our taste ; he refused, 
however, the Muigni's request in his own tone. 
Following princely example, the dancing Diwans 
claimed a fee for permitting us to reside. As 
they worded it El Ada — the habit — basing it upon 
an ancient present from Lieut. -Colonel Hamer- 
ton, and as they were in palpable, manifest pro- 
cess of establishing a local custom, which in 
Africa becomes law^ to the latest posterity, we 
flatly objected, showed our letters, and in the 
angriest of moods, threatened reference to Head 
Quarters. Briefly, all began to angle for bakh- 
shish, but I cannot remember any one catching it : 
they revenged themselves by promising to show 
us a minaret, and by showing only an old tomb — 



152 



THE VOYAGE. 



poor reward for 16 miles in the burning sun. 

Weary of negro importunities, we resolved to 
visit Chogwe, tlie nearest Balocli outpost upon 
the Rufu^ (Lufu), or Upper Pangani river, and 
thence, aided by the Jemadar, who had preceded 
us, to push for Euga, the capital village of Usum- 
bara. We made our preparations silently, paid 
off the Eiami, rejected the Diwans who wished 
to accompany us as spies, left Said bin Salim 
and Caetano, the Goanese lad, in the house of the 
Wali Meriko, who presently accompanied his 
Muigni to Zanzibar; and under pretext of a short 
shooting excursion, we hired a long canoe and 
four men, loaded it with the luggage required for 
a fortnight, and started with the tide, at 11 a.m. 
on January 6, 1858. 

Pirst we grounded, then a puff of wind drove 
us on at railway speed, and then we scraped 
again : it was impossible to avoid being taken 

' Mr Wakefield (loc. eit.) writes the word ' Eiivu,' and says 
that it is Kizegiia (Kizegura). T believe that this is the name 
by which it is known, not only ' a few days in the interior,' but 
immediately beyond the embouchure. As has already been re- 
marked, the wild people would pronounce the words Kizegiia and 
Mzegiia, the civilized Kizegura and Mzegura. Dr Krapf prefers 
Luffu, Lufu being the more truly African form. Mr Cooley 
(Lower Africa, &c., p. 71)) has Kuvu, a mere error, and ho actu- 
ally confounds it with the great Eufuma stream, a hundred miles 
to the south. 



UP STREAM. 



153 



aback, so abrupt are the windings of the bed. At 
last we were successful in turning the first dan- 
gerous angle : here, where sea-breeze and tide 
meet the buffing stream, forming a ' Lahr,' as 
the Baloch call it, navigation becomes perilous 
to small craft. There is, as usual at and near 
the mouths of African rivers where the water 
acts as wind conductor, a little gale blowing up- 
stream, a valuable aid to craft bound inland, but 
not without its risks ; here many a boat has filled 
and sunk beneath the ridge of short chopping 
waves. After five miles, during which the 
turbulent river, streaked with lines of froth, 
gradually narrowed, we found it barely brackish, 
and somewhat farther it was sweet as the cele- 
brated creek-water of Guiana. 

Often since that day, while writing amid the 
soughing blasts, the dashing rain, and the darkened 
air of a wet season in West Africa and the Brazil, 
have I remembered with yearning the bright and 
beautiful spectacle of those Zangian streams, 
whose charm, like the repose of the dead, seems 
heightened by proximity to decay. We had soon 
exchanged the amene and graceful, though some- 
what tame scenery of the sandstone formation on 
the seaboard, for a view most novel and charac- 
teristic. Behemoth now reared his head from the 



154 



MEN AND BEASTS. 



foaming waters, gazed upon us, snorted at us, and 
sank back surlily and suspiciously into the depths 
of his home. Crocodiles, terrified by the splash 
of paddles, waddled down, as dowagers might, 
with their horrid claws dinting the slimy bank, 
and lay upon the water like yellow-brown tree- 
trunks, measuring us with small malignant green 
eyes, deep set under w^arty brows. Monkeys 
rustled the tall trees, here peeping with curiosity 
almost human, there darting away in fear amidst 
the wondrous frondage and foliage ; now gambol- 
ling and frolicking up and down the corkscrew- 
like bush-ropes, nature's cables, shrouds, and 
stays ; then disappearing amidst the gloom of vir- 
gin forest. Below, their younger brethren, the 
jungle men and women — 

' So withered and so wild in their attire, 
That look not like th' inhabitants o' tli' earth, 
And yet are on't ' — 

planted their shoulder-cloths, their rude crates, 
and their coarse weirs upon the muddy inlets 
where fish abounded. The sky was sparkling 
blue, the water was bluer, and over both spread 
the thinnest blue haze, tempering raw tones of 
colour to 'absolute beauty. On both sides of the 
slmnking stream a dense curtain of many-tinted 
vegetation, 



VEGETATIOX. 



155 



' Yellow and black, and pale and bectic red,' 

shadowed swirling pools, where the current swept 
oyer the growth of intertwisted fibres. The stunt- 
ed Mkindu, brab or wild date (Phoenix sylvestris), 
much used for mats, contrasted with the Xakhl 
el Shaytan, or Devil's Date (Raphia Yinifera), 
Avhich, eccentric in form and frondage, curved 
arms sometimes 30 and even 35 feet long, over 
the dancing wave : this dwarf- giant of the palms 
has no trunk to speak of, but each midrib is 
thick as a man's thigh, and the vegetable king- 
dom cannot show such length of foliage. Xot a 
few of the trees were so distinguished by opposi- 
tions of tall and stm^dy trunk supporting frail and 
tender belongings, that they seemed to bear leaves 
and blossoms not their own. Upon the watery 
margin large lilies of snowy robe, some sealed by 
day, others wide expanded and basking in light 
and au^ gleamed beautifully against the black- 
green growth and the clear bitumen-brown of the 
bank-water. In scattered spots were inhuman 
traces of human presence ; tall arecas and cocoas 
waving over a now impenetrable jungle ; whilst 
plantains, sugar-canes, limes, and bitter oranges, 
choked with wild verdure, still lingered about the 
broken homestead and around the falHng walls, 
blackened by the murderer's fire. And above all 



156 



THE PIR. 



reigned the peculiar African and tropical still- 
ness of noontide, deep and imposing, broken only 
by the curlew's scream or by the tepid breeze 
rustling the tree-tops in fitful gusts, whispering 
among the matted foliage, and swooning away 
upon the warm bosom of the wave. 

Amid such scenes we paddled and poled till 
the setting sun spread its cloak of purple over a 
low white cliff, upon whose feet the ripple broke 
and on whose head lingered venerable trees that 
stood out from the underwood of the lower banks. 
Here lies the Pir of Wasin, a saint described by 
our Baloch guide as a 'very angry, holy man' 
(bard jabra Pir). A Sherif of pure strain, he 
gallantly headed, in times long gone by, his Mos- 
lem followers flying from Panga-ni, when it was 
attacked by a ravenous herd of heathenry. The 
infidels seem to have had the advantage in run- 
ning : they collared the Paitliful at these cliffs, 
and would have made mince-meat of them, when 
Mother Hertha, at the prayer of the Pir, opened 
wide and received them in her bowels. This 
Shaykli will not allow the trees to be felled or 
the floods to rise above the level of his grave : 
moreover, if the devotee, after cooking food at the 
tomb in honour of its tenant, venture to lick his 
fingers — the usual succedaneum for napkins in 



THE VILLAGE. 



157 



East Africa, and throughout the Moslem world — 
he is at once delivered over to the haunting Jinns. 
The Baloch never pass the place without casting 
a handful of leaves, a bullet, or a few grains of 
powder by way of humble heave-offering into the 
stream. Our guide told us, in accents of awe, 
how a Suri Arab, doubtless tainted mth Wahhabi 
heresy, had expressed an opinion that this Pir 
had been a mere mortal, but little better, if at all 
better, than his own sinful self ; how the shallow 
scoffer's ship was wrecked within the year, and 
how he passed through water into the fire of 
Jehannum. Prohatum est — defend us, Allah ! from 
the sins of Reason. 

We passed three small Arab timber-craft 
w^hich were laying in a cargo of red and white 
mangrove trunks, and in many places floated 
small rafts of palm-fronds ready to be guided 
down-stream. At sunset the tide, running like 
a mill-race, compelled our crew to pole up a little 
inlet near Pombui or Klpombui, a village on the 
left bank, well stockaded with split areca trunks. 
The people who are subject to Zanzibar, and are 
claimed by Kimwere, flocked out to welcome 
their strangers, laid down a bridge of cocoa-ribs, 
brought chairs, and offered a dish of small green 
mangoes, here a great luxury. We sat under a tree 



158 



HIPPOPOTAMI. 



till midniglit, unsatiated with the charm of the 
darker hours. The moon rained molten silver over 
the hlack foliage and the huge fronds of the Devil's 
Dates (Eaphias) ; the stars gleamed like golden 
lamps hung unusually high in the limpid air, and 
Venus, the beautiful, glittered diamond-like upon 
the pure front of the firmament. The fireflies 
rose in a scatter of sparks — ' a shower of fire ' 
Southey has it — now all shone out simultaneously 
through the dark ; then the glow melted away, as 
if by concerted impulse, amidst the glooms of the 
ground. At our feet rolled the black waters of the 
creek; in the jungle wild beasts roared fitfully ; 
Leviathan and Behemoth crashed through the 
bush, and the night breeze mingled softly sighing 
sounds with the murmurs and the gurgling of 
the stream. 

About midnight, when the tide flowed strong, 
we resumed our way. The river then became a 
sable streak down the avenue of lofty trees ex- 
cept where a bend suddenly opened its mirrory 
surface to the reflection of the moon, and 
stretched it before us like a silver ribbon. The 
deep roar of the hippopotamus, the snorting, 
and the occasional blowing sounded close to our 
stern, and the crew begged me to fire for the 
purpose of frightening a certain pernicious 



SULTAN MAMBA. 



159 



' rogue ' whose villanies had gained for him the 
royal title of ' Sultan Mamba,' or King Crocodile : 
now we heard the splashing of the huge beasts, 
as they scrambled over the shoals; then they 
struggled with hoarse grunts up the miry slippery 
banks which led to fields and plantations ; then, 
again, all was quiet as the grave. After a pro- 
tracted silence, deep and drear, the near voice of 
a man startled us as though it had been some 
ghostly sound. At 2 p.m., reaching a cleared tract 
on the river-side, the ' ghaut ' or landing-place of 
Chogwe, we made fast the canoe, looked to our 
weapons, and covering our faces against the 
clammy dew and the blinding, paralyzing moon- 
light, we lay down to snatch an hour's sleep. The 
total distance rowed was about 13| miles. 

We began the next morning with an inspection 
of Chogwe, the bazar, to which we were escorted 
with sundry honorary discharges of match- 
locks, by the Jemadar, and 20 Bashi Buzuks. 
It was first occupied some few years ago, when 
the Church Missionary Intelligencer had pub- 
lished (Jan. 1850) a ' fact,' namely, that the 
' Imam of Zanzibar had not one inch of ground 
between the Island of Wasin and the Panga-ni 
river.' The fact proved to be a fiction, and the 
late Sayyid at once garrisoned Chogwe and 



160 



CHOGWE. 



Tongwe with 25 Baloch. About this time, also, 
King Kimwere, with cheap generosity, had offered 
to Dr Krapf by way of mission- station a choice 
of Tongwe, of Pambire, or of Meringa, a lofty peak 
in the continuous range to the N. West. A 
certain French admiral declared that he would 
occupy these places where the ' Imam ' had little 
authority ; ' if they do, I'll burn the country 
faster than they can travel,' was the Arab's reply. 
M. Guillain next strove hard to prove that none 
of the Bu Saidi ever included even Makdishu in 
their dominions. 

Chogwe is situated upon an eminence gently 
rising from the grassy plain of black alluvial soil 
which is flooded during the rains. It is seven 
direct miles distant from Panga-ni town, bearing 
west 288°; the walk over a rugged path occupies 
four or five hours, yet few men but slaves availed 
themselves of the short cut. The position is badly 
chosen, water is distant, the rugged soil produces 
nothing but stunted manioc, and when the inun- 
dation subsides in the lowlands it is exposed to 
miasma, whilst the frequent creeks must be 
crossed upon tree trunks acting bridges. The 
garrison at such times suffers severely from sick- 
ness, especially from fever and diarrhoea, and the 
men, dull as a whaler's crew lorn of luck, abhor 



i:::uD3E. ma usa 



CHOGWE. 



161 



the wretched desolate out-station. Commanding, 
however, the main road to Usumbara, Chogwe 
affords opportunity for an occasional something 
in the lootinsr line — which is a consideration. 

A stiff snake-fence surrounds the hill-crest 
and defends the cajan penthouses of the Bashi 
Buzuks : the only works are two platforms for 
matchlock-men planted on high poles like the 
Maychan of Hindostan and the Mintar of Syria. 
The Washenzi savages sometimes creep up at 
night, shoot a few arrows into the huts, set fire to 
the matting with the spicula ignita, and after 
other such amenities, hurriedly levant. The 
Wazegura, though fighting with one another, did 
not when we visited the place molest the Baloch. 
To the North and West of Chogwe rises a con- 
tinuous range, the outKers of Usumbara : about 
15 miles S. Westward (233° 15') in the plains of 
the Wazegm'a beyond the river is a succession of 
detached hills of which the most remarkable, 
Tongwe Mwanapiro, in our charts called Genda- 
genda, may be seen from Zanzibar. Here rules 
one Mwere, a chief hostile to the mercenaries, 
who boast that if they numbered 50 they could 
overrun and plunder the whole land : the Asiatics, 
not caring to soil their liands vrith negro blood, 
make their slaves fight his men even as the in- 

VOL. II. 11 



162 



THE BALOCH. 



genuoiis youth of Eton offered their scouts to 
meet in the cricket-field the ambitious youth of 
E-ugby. It is certain that a few stout fellows, 
with a competent leader and a little money for 
good arms and ammunition, might easily establish 
an absolute monarchy over the independent 
blacks, and filibuster for Zanzibar, as the Khedive 
is now doing for Egypt. 

These Baloch mercenaries merit some notice. 
They were first entitled Askar in the days of Sultan 
bin Ahmad, father of the late Sayyid Said, who 
preferred them to his unruly self-willed Omani 
Arabs and his futile half-castes and blacks : he 
acted upon the same principle which made the 
Ayyubite sultans of Syria and Egypt arm first 
Kurdish and afterwards Circassian ' Mamluks.' 
From 1000 to 1500 men were scattered over the 
country in charge of the forts: the ruler knew 
that they were hated by all Arabs, and to create 
dissensions even amongst his own children was 
ever the astute Sayyid's policy. The Wali and the 
Jemadar, like the Turkish Wdli and Mushir, are 
rarely on speaking terms, and if not open enemies, 
they are at least rivals. The people nickname 
these foreigners Kurdra Kurara — to sleep ! to 
sleep ! ' rara ' being the Asiatic mispronunciation 
of Idld. Boasting themselves to be Baloch, they 



MERCENARIES. 



163 



are mostly from the regions about Kech and 
Bampur : they are mixed up with a rabble rout 
of Arabs and Afghans, of Sidis ^ and Hindostan 
men. The corps spoke some half-a-dozen differ- 
ent languages, and many of the members have 
left their country for their country's good — a 
body of convicts, however, generally fights well. 
The Mekrani especially are staunch men behind 
walls, and if paid, drilled, and officered, they 
would make as ' varmint ' light-bobs as any Ar- 
nauts. They have a knightly fondness for arms : 
a ' young barrel and an old blade ' are their de- 
light : hke schoolboys, they think nothing so 
fine as the report of a gun; consequently am- 
munition is kept by the CO., and is never served 
out except before a fight. All use the match- 
lock : while good shots are rare, many are toler- 
ablv skilful with sword and shield. Their 
nominal pay is from S2 to $3 per mensem, a 
pittance of some 20 pice (120 pice = §l) per diem : 
this must find them in clothes and rations as well 
as in arms ; often there is not a sandal amongst 

1 The full-blooded negro is called Sidi (Seedy) or Sidi 
bhai ('my lord brother') throughout "Western India. I have 
said that the expression, derived from his address to his master, 
is unknown at Zanzibar : to Europe it is made familiar by El 
Cid Campeador, but it must not be confounded with Sayyid, as it 
has lately been by a writer in the Athenaeum (No. 2288, Sept. 
2, 1871). 



164 



PECULATION. 



them, and they are as ragged a crew as ever left 
the barren wolds of Central Asia in quest of 
African fortune. They liye in tattered hovels, 
which they .build for theniselyes, upon one meal a 
day, which is shared by their slave concubines. To 
the natural greed of mountain-races, the poor devils 
who come in horse and salt-boats, and act barbers 
and sailors, porters, labourers, and date-gleaners, 
add the insatiable desires of beggars. The Banyans 
have a proverb that a Baloch, a Brahman, and a 
buck-goat eat the trees to which they are tied. 
Sudden and sharp in quarrel, they draw their dag- 
gers upon the minutest provocation ; they have no 
mitigation nor remorse of voice, and they pray in 
the proportion of one to a dozen. Africa is to 
them what the Caucasus is to the Russians, 
Kabylie to the Trench, and Sind to the English 
soldier. All look forward to ' Hindostan — bagh 
o bostan,' India the flower-garden ; but the Arabs 
have a canny proverb inporting that the fool wlio 
fallcth into the fire rarely falleth out of it. 

Praudare stipendio, saith ancient Justin, was 
the proverb of the Great King's satraps : the 
custom has been religiously preserved by the 
modern East. Each station is commanded by a 
Jemadar, who receives $4 to $5 per month, and 
ample license to pay himself by peculation. This 



PECULATION. 



165 



class is at once under- salaried and over-trusted. 
The Jemadar advances money upon usuiy to liis 
men ; he keeps them six months in arrears, and 
not a few of them never see the colour of Go- 
vernment coin from the year's beginning to the 
end. He exacts perquisites from all who fear 
his hate and who need his aid ; and he falsifies 
the muster-rolls impudently and with impunity, 
giving 25 names to perhaps foiu' men. Thus, 
like the Turkish Colonel of Nizam, the Jemadar 
lives in great state. He has a wife or two, and 
perhaps a dozen slaves ; he sports a fine coat of 
scarlet broadcloth, a silver-hilted sword and dag- 
ger, and a turban of rich silk. He keeps flocks 
of sheep and goats, and he trades with the in- 
terior for ivory and captives. Such has been, 
such is, and such ever will be till Europe steps 
in, that false economy which throughout the 
'East,' from Stambul to Japan, grasps the 
penny and flings away the pound. It is a state 
inseparable from the conditions of society and of 
government, where public servants are not paid, 
they must, of com^se, pay themselves ; and they 
often prefer the latter mode, as they pay them- 
selves far better than they would otherwise be 
paid. About a century ago we did the same 
thing in India, where men amassed fortunes, and 



166 



THE START. 



until the late reforms, such was notoriously the 
case throughout the Russian empire. Perhaps 
in the present day the hest place to study the 
system of all peculation and no pay is Damascus. 

Having confided our project to the Jemadar of 
Chogwe, he promised his good- will — for a consider- 
ation. He undertook to start us the next day, and, 
curious to relate, for as usual he was a Cathaian 
of the first water, he kept his word. The small 
garrison, however, could afford hut four match - 
lock-men as a guard, and the same numher of 
slave-hoys acting porters. The C. O., therefore, 
engaged for us, nominally paying $10, and 
douhtless retaining one half, a couple of guides, 
who proved to he a single guide and his chattel. 

After a night spent in the Maychan, where 
wind, dust, and ants conspired to make us miser- 
able, we arose to prepare for marching. We re- 
duced our kit to the strictest necessaire, survey- 
ing instruments, weapons, waterproof blankets, 
tea, sugar, and tobacco for ten days, a bag of 
dates, and three bags of rice. About noon, issu- 
ing from our shed, we placed the baggage in the 
sun ; thus mutely appealing to the ' Sharm ' — 
shame or sense of honour — possessed by our Ba- 
loch employes. A start was not effected till 5 
P.M. ; every slave grumbling loudly at his load. 



THE MARCH. 



167 



snatching up the lightest of packs, fighting to 
avoid the heavier burdens, and rushing forward 
regardless of what was left behind. This nuisance 
endured till abated by an outward application 
easily divined. I had only to hope that after a 
march or two the scramble would subside into 
something Kke order. At length, escorted in 
token of honour by the consumptive Jemadar 
and most of his company, we set out, in a strag- 
gling Indian file, towards Tongwe. 

The track wound over stony ridges, and after 
an hour it plunged into a dense, thorny thicket, 
which during the rains must be impassable. The 
evening belling of the deer and the near ' clock 
clock ' of the partridge struck our ears pleasantly. 
In open places lay the dry lesses of elephants, 
and footprints retained by the last year's mud : 
these animals, as in the Harar country, descend 
to the plains during the rainy monsoon, and when 
the heats set in retire to the cool hills — a regular 
annual migration. The Baloch shoot, the wild 
people kill them with poisoned arrows. More 
than once during our march we found the grave- 
like trap-pits in India called Ogi. They are wedge- 
shaped holes 10 feet deep, artfully placed in the 
little rises frequented by the beasts, and the size 
must exactly fit the victim, which easily extricates 



168 



THE MARCH. 



itself from one too large or too small : if fairly 
jammed, however, it cannot escape. We did not 
sight a single specimen; but judging from the 
footprints — three to three and a half circumfer- 
ences showing the shoulder-height — the elephant 
here is not of tall stature. Trom the further in- 
terior come tusks commonly weighing 100 lbs. 
each ; those of 175 lbs. are not rare, and I have 
heard of a par nobile sent from Delagoa Bay to 
the King of Portugal, whose joint weight was 
560 lbs. We also saw many traces of lion, 
antelope, and wild cattle, here called buffalo. 
It was a severe disappointment to us that we 
could not revisit, as we had promised ourselves, 
this country during the rains ; but Lieut. -Col. 
Hamerton strongly dissuaded us from again risk- 
ing jungle fever; and we had other work to 
do in Inner Africa. Sporting, indeed, must 
occupy the whole man, and even to shoot for 
specimens is often to waste time in two ways. 
The ' serious traveller ' must indulge himself by 
taking at times a week or a fortnight's leave 
from geograpical work, and even then he will 
frequently find circumstances interfere with his 
plans. Throughout our march in these regions 
game was rarely seen ; none lives where the land 
is peopled ; in the parts near the stations it is 



THE MAKAM SAYYID SULAYMAN. 169 



persecuted by the Baloeli, and the wild Jagers 
will kill and eat even rats. We heard, however, 
many tales of Mabogo, or wild cattle, and of lions; 
of leopards in plenty; of a hog, probably the 
masked boar ; amongst many antelopes, of one re- 
sembling the Nilghai (A. Picta), and of an elk 
said to be like the Sambar of Hindostan. 

Another hour's marching, and a total of six 
miles, as shown by the pedometer, brought us to 
the Makam Sayyid Sulayman, a partially cleared 
ring in the thorny jungle. It was bounded on 
one side by a rocky and tree-fringed nullah, where 
water stagnates in pools during the dry season; 
and here ensued a comical scene. The whole 
party went to drink, when suddenly all began to 
dance and shout like madmen, pulling off their 
clothes and frantically snatching at theu^ lower 
limbs. It was our first experience of that for- 
mican fiend, the bull-dog ant (Siyafu or Ch'hungu 
Pundo),^ black, and a good half inch long, which 
invariably reserves its attentions for the tender- 
est portions of the person attacked. The bite of 
this wretch, properly called ' atrox,' burns like 
the point of a red-hot needle, and whilst engaged 
in its cannibal meal, literally beginning to devour 

^ Ch'hungu, the generic name for an ant, must not be 
confounded with ' Chungu,' a pot. 



170 



ANTS. 



man alive, even when its doubled-up body has 
been torn from the head, the pincers will remain 
embedded in flesh. Moreover, there are the usual 
white ants (Ch'hnngu Mchwa, Termes fatalis), 
death upon your property; the ginger-coloured 
Ch'hungu ya moto, whose name 'fire-ant' de- 
scribes its bite, and the hopper ant, who, like the 
leopard, takes a flying leap from the nearest 
branch, and cleverly alighting upon the victim, 
commences operations. And where the ant is in 
legions, one of the most troublesome is the smell- 
ing ant (Ch'hungu TJvundo), which suggests that 
carrion is concealed behind every bush. Yerily, 
in Africa, as was said of the Brazil, the ant is 
king, and he rules like a tyrant. 

We spent the night in a small Babel of Ba- 
loch. It was a savage opera scene. One recited 
his Koran, another prayed, a third told funny 
stories, whilst a fourth trolled out in minor kev 
lays of love and war, made familiar to my ear 
upon the rugged Sindian hills. This was varied 
by slapping away the lank mosquitoes that flocked 
to the gleaming camp-fires, by rising occasion- 
ally to rid ourselves of the ants, and by challeng- 
ing the small parties of savages who, armed with 
bows and arrows, passed amongst us, carrying 
grain to Panga-ni. The Baloch kept a truly 



THE WATCH, 



171 



oriental watch. They sang and shouted, and they 
carefully fed the camp fire during early night, 
when there is no danger ; but all slept like the 
dead throu^^h the ' small hours,' the time always 
chosen by the African freebooters, and indeed by 
almost all savages, to make their unheroic on- 
slaughts. Similarly, throughout our expedition 
to the Lake Regions, the ' soldiers ' never dreamed 
of any precaution whilst in dangerous regions. 
As we approached the coast, however, sentinels 
were carefully set, that all might be well which 
ends well. 

At daybreak on February 9, accompanied by 
a much reduced detachment, we resumed our 
march : the poitrinaire Jemadar, who was crippled 
by the moonlight and by the cold dew, resolved, 
when thawed, to return with the rest of his com- 
pany Chogwe-wards. An hour's hard walking 
brought us to the foot of rugged Tongwe, the Great 
Hill. Ascending the flank of the N. Eastern spur, 
we found ourselves at 8 a.m., after five or six bad 
miles, upon the chine of a little ridge, with sum- 
mer facing the sea^ and a wintry wind blowing 
from the deep and forested valley to landward. 
Thence, pm^suing the rugged incline, after another 
half-hour we entered the ' fort,' a crenellated, flat- 
roofed, and whitewashed room, 14 feet square, sup- 



172 



TONGWE FORT. 



ported inside by smooth blackened rafters. It was 
tenanted by two Baloch, who figure on the muster- 
rolls as 20 men. They complain of loneliness 
and of the horrors : though several goats have been 
sacrificed, an obstinate demon still haunts the hill, 
and at times the weeping and wailing of distressed 
spirits makes their thin blood run chill from 
their hearts. 

Tongwe is the first offset of the massive moun- 
tain-terrace which forms the Region of Usumbara : 
here, in fact, begins the Higliland block of Zangian 
and equatorial Africa, which culminates in Kili- 
ma-njaro and Doenyo Ebor, or Mount Kenia. It 
rises abruptly from the plain, and projects long 
spurs into the river valley, where the Panga-ni 
flows noisily through a rocky trough, and whence 
Ave could distinctly hear the roar of the celebrated 
waterfall. Situated N. West of (324^), and nine 
miles as the crow flies from, Chogwe, the hill 
summit, about 2000 feet above sea-level, is clothed 
with jungle, through which we had to cut a way 
Avitli our swords, when seeking compass bearings 
of the Nguru hills. The thickness of the vegeta- 
tion, which contains stunted cocoas, oranges 
grown wild and bitter, the Castor shrub, the 
Solanum, and the bird-pepper plant, with small 
berry, but very hot i' the mouth, renders the 



TONGWE FORT. 



173 



eminence inaccessible from any but the Eastern 
and Northern flanks. The deserted grounds 
showed signs of former culture, and our negro 
guide sighed as he told us that his kinsmen had 
been driven by the Wazesrura from their ancient 
seats to the far inner Tvilds. Around the Fort 
were slender plantations of maize and manioc 
s]3ringing amongst the ' black jacks,' which here, 
as in the Brazil, are never removed. The sm-face 
is a reddish, argillaceous, and vegetable soil, over- 
lyinor errey and ruddy firranite and schists. These 
rocks bear the ' gold and silver complexion' which 
was fatal to Colin Clout, the chivabous ' Shepherd 
of the Ocean,' and the glistening spangles of mica 
still feed the fancy of the pauper Baloch mercen- 
ary. Below Tongwe hill, a deep hole in the north- 
ern face supplies the sweetest ' rock- water,' and 
upon the plain a boulder of well-weathered 
granite, striped with snowy quartz, contains two 
crevices ever filled by the purest springs. The 
climate appeared delicious, temperate in the full 
blaze of an African and tropical summer, and 
worthy of verse — 

' Fair is that laud as evening skies, 
And cool though in the depths it lies 
Of burning Africa.' 

The temperature would correspond with a similar 



174 



THE START. 



altitude upon the Fernando Po and the Camarones 
peaks. But whilst the hill was green the lower 
lands were haked like hread crust — the ' fertile 
and flourishing regions ahout Tongwe ' helong to 
the category of things gone hy. 

We had much to do hefore leaving Tongwe. 
The Jemadar had, it is true, ordered for us an 
escort, but in these latitudes obedience to orders 
is an optional matter. Moreover, the Baloch, 
enervated by climate and by long habits of utter 
indolence, looked forward with scant pleasure to 
the discomforts of a mountain march. Shoeless, 
bedless, and almost ragless, they could hardly be 
induced, even by the offer of ' stone dollars,' to 
quit for a week their hovel homes, their black 
Venuses, and their whitey-brown piccaninnies. 
They felt truly happy with us at Tongwe, doing 
nothing beyond devouring, twice a day, vast 
quantities of our dates and rice, an unknown 
luxury ; and they were at infinite pains to defer 
the evil hour of departure. One fellow declared 
it was absolutely impossible for him to travel 
without salt, and proposed sending back a slave 
to Chogwe: the move would have involved the 
loss of at least three days, so we thought it best 
at once to begin with firmly saying no. 

By hard talking I managed at last to secure a 



THE PARTY. 



175 



small party, which, demands a few words of in- 
troduction to the reader — it is the typical affair in 
this part of Africa, and the sketch may he useful 
to future travellers. We have four slave hoys, 
idle, worthless dogs, who never work save under 
the rod, who think of nothing beyond their sto- 
machs, and who are addicted to running away 
upon all occasions. Petty pilferers to the hack- 
hone, they steal, magpie-like, by instinct, and from 
their impudent fingers nothing is safe. On the 
march they lag behind to see what can be ' prig- 
ged,' and not being professional porters, they are 
as restive as camels when receiving their loads. 
' Am I not a slave ? ' is their excuse for every de- 
tected delinquency, and we must admit its full 
validity. One of these youths happening to be 
brother-in-law — after a fashion — to the Jemadar, 
reqmres almost superhuman efforts to prevent him 
loading the others with his own share. 

The guide, Muigni Wazira, is a huge broad- 
shouldered, thick-waisted, large-limbed Msawa- 
hili, with coal black skin and straight features, 
massive and regular, which look as if cut in jet ; 
a kind of face that might be seen on the keystone 
of an arch. He frowns like the Jann spoken 
of in the Arabian Nights, and he often makes me 
wish for a photographer. He is purblind, a de- 



176 



THE RIDER KING. 



feet wliicli does not, however, prevent his leading 
ns by the shortest path into every village that 
aspires to mulct our slender store of sprig-muslin. 
Wazira is our rogue, rich in all the perfections of 
African cunning. A prayerless Sherif , he utterly 
despises all Makafiri or infidels ; he has a hot 
temper, and when provoked he roars like a wild 
Least. He began by stubbornly refusing to carry 
any load; but he yielded when it was gently 
placed upon his heavy shoulder, with a signifi- 
cant gesture in case of recusance. He does not, 
however, neglect to pass it occasionally to his 
slave, who, poor wretch, is almost broken down by 
the double burden. 

Hahmat the Mekrani calls himself a Baloch, 
and bears the proud title of Shali-Sawar, or the 
Eider King. He is the Chelebi, the dandy or 
tiger of the party. A good-looking brown man, 
about 25 years of age, with a certain affectation 
and girlishness of speech and tournure which bode 
no good, the Eider King deals in the externals 
of respectability: he washes and prays with arti- 
ficial regularity ; he is ever combing his long hair 
and beard; he trains his bushy mustache to 
touch his eyes, and he binds on crookedly a huge 
turban. His cue is to affect the Jemadar, to take 
command. He would have monopolized, had I 



THE CHAPLAIN. 



Ill 



permitted him, the general store of gunpowder, 
a small leathern bottle wrung from the C. O. at 
Chogwe : and having somewhat high-flown ideas 
of discipline, he began by stabbing a slave-boy. 
He talks loud in his nasal native Balochki, de- 
based Persian, ridiculous Arabic, and voluble 
Kisawahili ; moreover, his opinion is ever to the 
fore. The Eider Eling, pleading soldier, refuses 
to carry anything but his matchlock and a pri- 
vate stock of dates, which he keeps ungenerously 
to himself. He boasts of prowess in vert and 
venison : I never saw him hit the mark, but we 
missed some powder and ball, with which perhaps 
he may be more fortunate. Literally, he was not 
worth his salt. Yet this knave had resolved to 
force himself upon me when in June I set out 
for the Lake Eegions, and made a show of level- 
ling his old shooting-iron. Por sixpence a shot he 
might have fired ad libitum. 

Hamdan, a Maskat Arab, has seen better days, 
of which strong waters and melancholia have re- 
moved all traces except a tincture of lettres. Our 
Mullah, or chaplain-and-secretary, is small, thin, 
brown- skinned, long-nosed, and green-eyed, with 
little spirit and less muscularity. A crafty old 
traveller, he has a store of creature comforts for 
the journey : he carries with his childish match- 

VOL. II. 12 



178 



SHA'ABAN THE DRONE. 



lock a drinking gourd and a Ghi-pot, and for 
more reasons than one he sits apart at the camp- 
ing ground. Strongly contrasting with him is 
the ancient .Mekrani Sha'aban, a decrepit giant 
with the negroid type of countenance, pock- 
marked, and ugly enough to frighten. He is of 
the pig-headed, opposed to the soft-hrained, order 
of old man, hard and opinionated, selfish and un- 
manageable. He smokes, and must drink water 
throughout the livelong day. He dispenses the 
wisdom of a Dogberry, Avhereat all laugh; and 
much to the disgust of his hearers, he either 
coughs or snores during the hours of night. Tliis 
senior will carry nothing but his long greasy gun, 
gourd, and pipe ; and, despite his grey beard, he 
is the drone of our party. 

Jemal and Murad Ali are our working men, 
excellent specimens of the true Baloch, vieux 
grognards, with a grim sour humour, something 
like ' wut,' especially when the fair sex and its 
backslidings are concerned. They have dark 
frowning faces, wrinkled and rugged as their natal 
liills, with pads of muscle upon their short fore- 
arms and sinewy angular calves, remarkable in 
this land of sheepshanks. Sparing of words, they 
grunt the shortest answers when addressed; if 
they speak at all, it is in a roar or a scream : tbey 



JEMAL AND MURAD ALL 



179 



are angry men, uncommonly liandy with their 
well-pohshed daggers, and they think as little of 
cutting a negro's as a sheep's throat. At the 
promise of an extra dollar they walk off under 
heavy loads, besides carrying their arms and 
necessaries. These two, in fact, are good men 
and true. 

The gem of the party, however, is one Sidi 
Mubarak, who has taken to himself the agnomen 
of ' Bombay.' His sooty skin, and teeth sharp- 
pointed like those of the reptilia, denote his origin 
from Uhiao : he is one of those model Seedies, run- 
away slaves, employed as lascars and coal-trim- 
mers, w^ho with chaff, grimace, and peals of 
laughter, varied now and then by dance and song, 
delight the passengers in an Anglo- Indian 
steamer. Bombay, sold at Kilwa in early youth, 
a process of which he talks with many broad 
grins, was carried to Cutch by some Banyan, and 
there became a libertinus : he looks fondly back 
upon the hour of his adoption, and he sighs for 
the day when a few dollars will enable him to 
return. His head is a triumph to phrenology ; a 
high narrow cranium, denoting by arched and 
rounded crown, f uyant brow and broad base with 
full development of the moral region, deficiency 
of the reflectives, fine perceptives, and abundant 



180 



SIDI MUBARAK BOMBAY. 



animality. His liair is of the woolliest : his 
twinkling little eyes are set close together, and 
his lips and expansive mouth, especially in rare 
fits of ill-temper, project as in the cynocephali. 
He works on principle and he works like a horse, 
candidly declaring that not love of us but his 
duty to his belly make him work. With a 
sprained ankle and a load quite disproportioned 
to his chetif body, he insists upon carrying two 
guns, and after a 30 miles' walk he is as fresh as 
before it began. He attends us everywhere, 
manages our purchases, carries all our messages, 
and when not employed by us, he is at every 
man's beck and call. Speaking a little broken 
Hindostani, he has for all * jungly niggers ' an in- 
effable contempt, which he never attempts to 
conceal. He had enlisted under the Jemadar of 
Chogwe : we thought, however, so highly of his 
qualifications, that persuasion and paying his 
debts induced him after a little coqueting to take 
leave of soldiering and to follow our fortunes. He 
began by escorting us to Puga as head gun- 
carrier : on our march to the Lakes he was the 
confidential servant and interpreter of my com- 
panion, he being the only man with whom the 
latter could converse, and in the Second Expedi- 
tion of Capts Speke and Grant he was promoted 



THE ESCORT. 



181 



to command the Wasawahili. Almost every 
black brain would have been turned by this rapid 
and dazzling rise: Sidi Mubarak Bombay did not, 
however, as I had anticipated, 'prove himself a 
failure in the end.' 

A machine so formed could hardly be expected 
to begin work without some creaking. The Ba- 
loch were not entirely and solely under us, and in 
the East no man will, even if he can, serve two 
masters. Eor the first few days many a muttered 
cursing and loud wrangling showed signs of disso- 
lution. One would not proceed because the Bider 
King kept the gunpowder, another started on his 
way home because he was refused some dates, 
and, during the night after departm^e, all Bombay's 
efforts, we afterwards heard, were in requisition 
to prevent a break-up en masse. But by degrees 
the component parts fitted smoothly and moved 
steadily, till at last we had little to complain of, 
and the men volunteered to follow wherever we 
might lead. By acting upon the old Oriental prin- 
ciple, ' the word is gone forth and must be heard,' 
Ave never failed to win a disputed point, and one 
success paved the way for others. Amongst 
these perverse and headstrong races, however, the 
traveller must be careful in committing himself 
to an ultimatum, and he must be prepared when 



182 



BOMB ATS LAST. 



he says he will do a thing, to do it. Otherwise 
he will speedily lose caste, and caste once lost is 
not to he regained — in Africa or, perhaps, else- 
where. 

NOTE. 

Since these pages were written, Sidi Mubarak 
Bombay has been made Chief of Caravan by Mr 
Stanley of New York, who is now (December 10, 
1871) marching upon the Tanganyika Lake in 
quest of Dr Livingstone. 



4 



CHAPTER YII. 



THE MARCH TO FUGA. ASCENT OF THE HIGH- 
LANDS OP EAST AFRICA. PRESENTATION TO 
KING KIMWERE. 

Es gibt in Central Afrika Paradiese, die mit der Zeit die 
Civilisation aussucben wird zum Besten der Menscliheit.' — 

J. YON MULLER. 

On Eebruary 10, after a night of deep wilder- 
ness-silence, we arose betimes, and appKed our- 
selves to the task of porterage. The luggage was 
again reduced — now to the very lowest expression. 
Eor observations we carried sextant and horizon, 
two compasses and stand, and a common and a 
boiling-point thermometer.^ A waterproof carpet- 

* A delicate mercurial barometer (Adie), obligingly lent to 
me by the Secretary of tbe Bombay Geographical Society, was 
left for comparison at Zanzibar with the apothecary of the 



184 



THE OUTFIT, 



bag contained journals and materials for writing 
and sketching. Our arms were a six-shooter 
each (4 lbs. 1 oz.), a Colt's rifle (10 lbs. 8 oz.), a 
small Biichse by Nowotny of Vienna (8 lbs. 3 oz.), 
a shot-gun (W. Richards, 11 lbs.), three swords, 
and two bowie-knives ; in fact, fighting gear, 
with the ammunition necessary for ourselves 
and men. A solid leather portmanteau was 
stuffed with a change of raiment and a gift 
for Sultan Kimwere, namely a coat of black 

Consulate. On a rough mountain tour such an instrument would 
certainly have come to grief, as it afterwards did on the lowlands 
of the Continent. The instruments recommended by the Medical 
Board, Bombay, did not reach us in time ; and the same was 
the case with the reflecting circle kindly despatched by Mr 
Francis Galton. We had in all four bath thermometers, and two 
B. Ps. ; one used by Capt. Smyth, R. N., when crossing the Andes, 
was given to us by Col. Hamerton ; and another (Newman) 
was rendered useless by mercury settling in the upper bulb, air 
having been carelessly left in the tube by the maker — a fre- 
quent offence. We had no sympiesometers. The instrument is 
portable, but the experience of naval officers pronounces against 
it within the tropics, and especially near the Line (6° to 8""), 
where its extreme sensitiveness renders it useless. Aneroids 
also must be carried in numbers, and be compared with stand- 
ard instruments not so likely to be deranged : they are seldom 
true, and are liable to vary when ascending or descending the 
scale. My latest explorations have been made with glass tubes, 
supplied by Mr Louis Casella, of Hatton Garden : they are 
portable, not easily broken, and, best of all, they give correct 
results. Of course it is well to carry aneroids for all except 
crucial stations ; and as for B. Ps., they are not worth the 
trouble of carrying. 



THE OUTFIT. 



185 



broadcloth (§12), eight turbans of sprig mus- 
lin (88), a similar number of Surat embroi- 
dered caps (§8), and two light-colom'ed cotton 
shawls of trifling value. Our provisions consisted 
of three bags of rice (§12.50), a sack of dates 
(§2.25), onions, manioc, flour, tea, and sugar, for 
10 days ; tobacco, pepper and salt, of which none 
is procurable in the interior ; a lamb, three 
chickens, and a bottle of cognac, to be used in 
case of need. Our beds were in waterproofs, 
which might also be converted into tents and 
awnings; a horn lantern, wax candles, and a 
policeman's dark-lantern, were added for night- 
work, whilst a portable tin canteen, with a Pa- 
pin's digester, completed the equipment. What 
we chiefly wanted were water-skins, beads, and 
' domestics ; ' and this we presently found to our 
cost. 

It was 6 A. M. before we were free to follow 
the thorny goat-track which leads down the X. 
Eastern spur of Mount Tongwe. By dint of fight- 
ing our way through rushes and tiger- grass, we 
struck into the Panga-ni road, and after three 
hours' winding to the north-west, we rested at 
some fetid pools in a reed-grown fiumara. The 
sun began to sting, and we had already occupied 
the shadow of a tall rock, intending to doze till 



186 



THE RED LAND. 



the afternoon, when Wazira, who had disappeared 
in the morning after hearing the growling of a 
lion, returned to us, and for reasons of his own, 
induced us to advance hy promising hetter water. 
The path ran over stony ground, at times plung- 
ing into the forest ; there were frequent thorny 
ridges, and narrow green dales or rather ravines, 
bordered with lovely amphitheatres of lofty and 
feathery tropical trees, showing signs of inunda- 
tion during the rains. But the Kazkazi, or N. 
East monsoon, had dried up the marrow of the 
land, and though we searched secundum artem, 
as for treasure, we found no water. 

Noon came, and the sun towered in its pride 
of place. Even whilst toiling up the stony, dusty 
track, over a series of wearisome, monotonous 
slopes, unvisited by the cool sea-breeze, we could 
not but remark the novel aspect of the land. The 
ground was brick-red, a favourite colour in Africa 
as in the Brazil, and its stain extended half-way up 
the tree-boles, which the ants had streaked with 
ascending and descending galleries. Overhead 
floated, cloud-like, a filmy canopy of sea-green ver- 
dure, pierced by myriads of little sun pencils ; 
whilst the effulgent dome, purified as with fire from 
mist and vapour, set the picture in a frame of gold 
and ultramarine. Painful splendours ! The men 



WATER AFTER THIRST. 



187 



began to drop off. Xone but Hamdan had 
brought a gourd. Sha'aban clamoured for water. 
Wazira, and the four slave-boys, retired to some 
puddle, a discoyery which they sensibly kept to 
themselves, lea^dng the rest of the party to throw 
themselves upon the hot ground, and to cower 
under tree and bush. 

As the sun sank westward, Wazira joined us 
with a mouthful of lies, and the straggling line 
advanced. Our purblind guide once more lagged 
in the rear, yielding the lead to old Sha'aban. 
This worthy, whose wits were absorbed in visions 
of water, strode blunderingly ahead over the hills 
and far away, guided by the Khombora cone. 
My companion, keeping him in sight, and I being 
in rear of both, we all three missed the path, and 
shortly after sunset we reached a narrow fiu- 
mara. Here stood, delightful sight! some pud- 
dles, bright-green with chickweed and brown- 
black with the mire below. We quenched our 
thirst, and bathed our swollen feet, and patted, 
and felt, and handled the fluid, as though we 
loved it. But even this charming occupation 
had an end, and other thoughts suggested them- 
selves. Our shots and shouts remained un- 
answered, and it would have been the merest 
midsummer-madness to have wandered in the 



188 



THE NYUZI FIUMARA. 



dubious moonlight about the thorny, pathless 
jungle. We therefore kindled a fire, looked to 
our weapons, chose a soft sandy place under the 
bank, and certain that Sha'aban would tend the 
fire like a Vestal virgin, we were soon lulled to 
sleep by the music of the breeze, and by the frogs 
chaunting their ancient querele upon the miry 
margin of the pools. That day's work had been 
only three leagues and a bittock. But — 

' These high, wild hills, and rough, uneven ways 
Draw out the miles : ' 

it seemed as though we had marched double 
distance ; a circumstance wliich the young Afri- 
can traveller would do well to note. 

At dawn, after our supperless bivouac, we re- 
traced our steps, and soon came upon our people, 
who shouted aloud, Khayr ! Khayr ! They had 
taken the northern path, and they had nighted 
also near water, upon the upper course of the 
fiumara which gave us hospitality. The Nyuzi 
is a rocky bed about 20 feet broad, showing traces 
of violent periodical freshets, edged with thick 
trees, gummy acacias, wild mulberries, and 
large wood-apples (Feronias). Even in the driest 
season it preserves pools, sometimes 100 feet 
long, and water is always procurable by digging 
in the sand. The banks shelter various birds and 



THE WILD HUNTERS. 



189 



antelopes. We found doves, kites, and curlews, 
whilst large iguanas congregated around the 
water to dine upon the fish-fry which die of heat 
in the sun-scalded shallows. 

After shaking hands all around, and settling 
sundry small disputes about the right and the 
wrong, we spread our mats in the grateful shade, 
and made up for the past with tea and tobacco. 
During the day our Baloch shaved one another's 
heads, and plaited Sawas, or sandals of palm-leaf. 
The guide engaged, as extra porters, five wild 
men, habited in the simplest attire — a kilt of dried 
grass, with the upper ends woven into a cord of 
the same material. This thatch, fastened round 
the waist, extended to mid-thigh : it is cool, clean, 
and certainly as decent as the garb of the Gael. 
All had bows and poisoned arrows, except one, who 
boasted of a miserable musket and of literally a 
powder-horn, the vast spoils of a cow, slung across 
his shoulder. The wretches were lean as wintry 
wolves, and not less ravenous. We fed them with 
rice and Ghi : of course they asked for more, till 
their stomachs, before shrunken like empty blad- 
ders, stood out in the shape of little round lumps 
from the hoopwork of ribs. We had neglected 
to take their arms by way of pledges to the con- 
tract : after amply feeding they arose, and with 



190 



THE MARCH. 



small, beady eyes twinkling at the practical joke, 
they bade us adieu. Though starving, they would 
not work ! A few hours af terw^ards they fell in 
with the hippopotamus, for which they were wait- 
ing, as it passed from the feeding- grounds to its 
day-home in the stream. Behemoth is a helpless 
beast on dry land. He was presently surrounded 
by his enemies, porcupined with arrows, and soon 
nothing of him remained but a heap of bones 
and a broad stain of blood. 

We rested till 3.15 p.m. in the grateful shade, 
and then, persuading our carriers to load one 
another, an operation still of some difficulty, we 
advanced over a path dented by the spoor of wild 
cattle. The rolling ground was a straggHng thorn- 
jungle, a 'forest without shade,' studded with 
bright blossoms : the usual black-jacks were scat- 
tered about a plain, fired to promote the growth 
of fodder, and ant-hills rose regularly like Irish 
' fairy-mounts,' as if disposed by the hand of art. 
Needless to say that all was desert of man. The 
Khombora Cone fell far behind: the walls of 
Usagama, whose peaks, smoking by day and burn- 
ing by night, resembled fumaroles from afar, 
changed their blue tints first for brown and then 
for a distinct green hue. At length, emerging 
from the wood, we debouched upon an alluvial 



HALT AT KOHODE. 



191 



plain, and sighted the welcome river flashing light 
through its setting of emerald trees, as it mirrored 
the westing orb of day. At 6 p.m., after a 10-mile 
walk, traversing the tall rushes, young trees, and 
thick underwood of the bank, we found ourselves 
opposite Kohode, the village of a friendly Mzegura 
chief. ' Sultan Mamba ' having recognized the 
Baloch, forthwith donned his scarlet cloak, super- 
intended the launching of the village canoe from 
its cajan house; stood surrounded by the elders 
watching our transit, and, as we landed, wrung 
our hands with rollicking greetings, and with 
those immoderate explosive cachinnations, which 
render the African family to all appearance so 
'jolly ' a race. 

The Thursday was a halt at Kohode. It is the 
normal cultivator's hamlet of these regions, built 
upon the tall and stiff clay bank of the Panga-ni 
river, here called the Eufu or Luf u. According to 
the people this would mean death or destruction, no 
bad description of a stream swarming with croco- 
diles, and we find the dissyllable commencing many 
riverine names, as Rufiji, Rufuma, and Eufuta. 
Erom without the settlement has a pleasant ap- 
pearance of seclusion and rural comfort : it sug- 
gested a village in the Tirhai or the Dehra Dhun : 
there was the same peaceful quiet look, sheltered 



192 



THE VILLAGE. 



situation, and circle of tall forest. Rendered in- 
visible till near by screening tree, bush, and spear 
grass, it is protected by a stout palisade of trunks, 
and this, in directions where foes, human or bes- 
tial, may be expected, is doubled and trebled. 
The entrances, in the shape of low triangles, 
formed by inclining the posts en chevron, lead to a 
heap of wattle and dab huts, here square, there 
round: they are huddled together, but where 
space allows they are spread over a few hundred 
feet. Goats, sheep, and black cattle, which, con- 
trary to the custom of Guinea, thrive beyond the 
coast, are staked near or inside the owners' habit- 
ations. Prom the deep strong-flowing Rufu, 
running purple, like Adonis after rains, with the 
rich loam of the hills, and here about 80 yards 
wide, a bathing-place is staked off, against the hip- 
popotamus and the crocodile. Our Baloch, who 
hold, with all Orientials, that drinking the element 
at night impairs digestion, make of this an excep- 
tion : and my companion, an old Himalayan, 
thought that he could detect in it the peculiar 
rough smack of snow water. The stream is navi- 
gable, but boats are arrested by the falls below, 
and portages are not yet known in East Africa. 

The villagers are cultivators, tame, harmless 
heathen, to all but one another: unfortunately 



SULTAN MAMBA. 



193 



they have become masters of muskets, and they 
use the power to plunder, and oppress those who 
have it not. ' Sultan Mamba,' the crocodile,^ a 
stout, jolly, beardless young black, vdih. the laugh 
of a boatswain, and the voice of one calling in the 
wilderness, has made himself a thorn in Kimwere's 
side. In supplying us with beef and milk, he 
jerked his thumb back towards the blue hills of 
Usumbara, upon whose mountain-pass the smoke 
of watch-fires cm4ed high, and declared, vdth. 
gusto, that we had already become the hill-king's 
guests. Our Baloch guard applauded this kin- 
dred soul, clapped him upon the shoulder, and 
swore that with a score of men-at-arms like them- 
selves he might soon make himself monarch of 
all the mountains. 

' Sultan Mamba ' once visited Zanzibar, where 
his eyes were at once opened to Koranic truth by 
the Kazi Muhivv el Din : this distins^uished 
Msawahili D. D. conferred upon the neophyte the 
name of Abdullah bin Muhiw el Din, and thus 
called him son. But the old Mamba returned 

1 Curious to say, M. Erhardt, who was certainly no mean 
linguist (Conclusion to Dr Krapf's Travels, pp. 500 and 504), 
has translated, by some curious mistake, Kiboko crocodile, and 
Mamba hippopotamus. In the latter error he is of course 
followed by Islv Cooley, who (Memoir on the Lake Eegions, p. 
9) finds that I am ' disingenuous ' in affecting to be astonished 
that he translates Mamba by hippopotamus. 

VOL. II. 13 



194 'POWDER, BALL, AND BRANDY: 



strong upon AbduUali when he sniffed once more- 
his natal air : he fell away from prayer and 
ablution and grace generally, to the more conge- 
nial practices of highwaying and of hard drink- 
ing. This amiable youth, who was endowed 
with an infinite power of surprise and an inveter- 
ate itching for beggary, sat with us half the day 
and inspected our weapons for hours, wondering 
how he could obtain something of the kind. He 
asked at one time for the Colt, at another for a 
barrel of gunpowder : now he offered to barter 
slaves for arms and ammunition, and when night 
fell he privily sent Hamdan to request a bottle of 
cognac. All these things were refused in turn, and 
the Sultan was fain to be content with two caps, a 
pair of muslins, and a cotton shawl. He seriously 
advised us to return with some twenty kegs of 
the best gunpowder, which, as the article was ever 
in demand, would bring, he assured us, excellent 
business in ' black diamonds.' He stated that his 
people had but three wants— powder, ball, and 
brandy, and that they could supply in return three 
things — men, women, and children. Our parting 
was truly pathetic. He swore that he loved us, 
and promised us on the down march the use of 
his canoe. But when we appeared with empty 
hands, and neither caps nor muslins remained, 



'MEN, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN: 



195 



Sultan Mamba scarcely deigned to notice us, and 
the river became a succession of falls and rapids. 

After a night, in which the cimex lectularius 
had by a long chalk the advantage of the 
drowsy god, we were ferried at 7 a.m., on Eebru- 
ary 13, across the stream, attended by sundry 
guides. The start was generally too late. A 
seasoned traveller easilv bears scorchinor heat if 
he sets out with the dawn and works into the 
sultry hours : after a morning spent in the shade 
he will suffer more or less severely from sudden 
exposure. Prom Kohode, which is more than half 
way, there are two roads to Euga. The dh^ect 
line, running nearly due north, crosses the High- 
lands : at this season it is waterless. That alono* 
the river is more than double the length : it be- 
gins to the N. West and then turns sharply to the 
East. We determined to see the stream, and we 
doubted the power of our heavily-laden men to 
front the passes in such heat : the worst of these 
walking journeys is that the least accident disables 
the traveller, and accidents will happen to the 
best of marching parties. 

Presently emerging from the thicket, we fell 
into the beaten track over the dark alluvial river- 
plain, which here, as at Chogwe, must during rains 
be a sheet of water. This is the first section of our 



196 



THE UPLANDS. 



line ; the second will be the red land with rises 
and falls, but gently upsloping to the west, whilst 
the third and last will be the granite and sand- 
stone flanks of TJsumbara. After a few minutes' 
march we crossed by a bridge composed of a 
fallen tree the Luangera (miscalled Lucre by Herr 
Augustus Petermann) : this deep sullen affluent 
of the E;uf u, 23 to 24 feet broad, drains the Nortli- 
Eastern Bamburri mountains. Then stretching 
over the grassy expanse, we skirted two smaU red 
cones, the Ngua outliers of the high Vugiri range. 
Like its eastern neighbour Usagama, this buttress of 
TJsumbara is the normal precipice with bluff sides 
of rock, weU wooded on the summit, and looking 
a proper place for ibex : of this animal, a well- 
marked species (C. Walie), with thick and promin- 
ently ribbed horns, has been found in the snowy 
heights of Abyssinia, and it probably extends to 
the gigantic peaks of the ^thiopic Olympus. The 
Vugiri forms part of the escarpment line separat- 
ing the higlilands from the river plain to the south. 
The people assured us that the summit is a fertile 
rolling plateau which supports an abundant popu- 
lation of Washenzi, serfs, and clients, subject to 
King Kimwere. 

We then entered upon cultivated ground, 
which seemed a garden after the red waste below 



BRIDGES. 



197 



Tongwe. Cocoas and tall trees concealed the 
Rufu, whicli above its junction with the Luan- 
gera becomes a mere mountain-torrent, roaring 
down a rocky, tortuous bed, and forming green, 
tufted islets, which are favourite sites for settle- 
ments. We can hardly, however, call them, with 
Boteler, an archipelago. Our guides presently 
,took leave, alleging a blood-feud with the neigh- 
bouring villagers. The people, as we passed by, 
flocked over then rude bridges, which extend up 
coast to Brava, floors of narrow planks laid hori- 
zontally upon rough piers of cocoa-trunks, forked 
to receive cross-pieces, and planted a few feet 
apart. The structure is parapeted with coarse 
basket-work, and sometimes supplied with fibrous 
creepers, jungle-ropes, knotted in 20 places, by 
way of hand-rail. These the number and daring 
of the crocodiles render necessary. I was once 
innocently sitting upon a slab of stone surrounded 
by the water, and greatly enjoying the damp and 
the coolth, when, with a rush and a roar, as if it 
had been an attack, my men fell upon me, and 
hurried me to the bank. All here believe that 
the crocodile sweeps off its prey with a blow of the 
powerful tail, and once in the water, man is help- 
less against the big lizard. These constructions 
are at least more artful than the Pinsrela or 



198 



THE NATIVES. 



single plank of the Brazil, and the tight-rope affairs 
of the Himalayas : they nnist much resemble the 
bridges of inner Devonshire, that ' sleeping 
beauty of the (near) West,' during the days of our 
grandfathers. Cows, goats, and long-tailed sheep 
clustered upon the plains, and gave a pastoral 
aspect to the out-of-the-way scene. 

We halted from 10 A. m. to 4 p. m., under a 
spreading tamarind, near Zafura, a village on an 
island of the Panga-ni, distant about two miles 
from Mount Yugiri. Here we were surrounded 
by crowds, who feasted their eyes upon us for 
consecutive hours. They were unarmed and 
dressed in skins ; they spoke the Kizegura dialect, 
which differs greatly from the Kisawahili; and 
they appsared rather timid than dangerous. 
Their sultan stalked about, spear in hand, highly 
offended by our not entering his hut, and drop- 
ping some cloth; whilst sundry Wasawaliili in 
red caps looked daggers at the white interlopers. 
We tried to hire extra porters, but having neither 
Merkani (American domestics) nor beads, we 
notably failed. 

Presently black nimbi capped the hill-tops, 
cooling the fierce Sirocco, and the low growling 
of distant thunder warned us forwards. Eesum- 
ing our march at 3.30 p. m., we crossed a dry 



THE MSIKI MGURU VILLAGE. 



199 



liumara, trerLcling towards tlie Eufii. We tra- 
versed, a hill-spur of rolling and thorny red 
ground, to avoid a deep loop in the stream ; we 
passed a place were rushes and tiger-grass choked 
the bed, and where the divided waters, apparently 
issuing from a black jungle and a dark rock, 
foamed down a steep and jagged incline. We 
crossed over two bridges, and at 5 p. m. we en- 
tered a village of Wazegura, distant from Kohode 
12 miles. Msiki Mguru is a cluster of hay-cock 
huts touching one another, and built upon an 
island formed by divers rapid and roaring branches 
of the river. The headman was sick, but we 
found a hospitable reception. Uninitiated in the 
African secret of strewing ashes round the feet 
of the Kitanda or cartel, we spent our night, 
although we eschewed the dirty, close huts, 
battling with ant armies and other little slayers 
of sleep that shall be nameless. Our hosts, 
speaking about the Wamasai, expressed great 
terror, which was justified by the sequel. Scarcely 
had we left the country, when a band of wild 
spearmen attacked two neighbouring villages, 
slaughtered the hapless cultivators, and with pil- 
lage and poUage drove off the cattle in triumph. 
Our hosts watched with astonishment the magical 
process of taking an altitude of Capella, and they 



200 



THE MSIKI MGURU VILLAGE. 



were anxious to do business in female slaves, 
honey, goats, and sheep. Some of the girls were 
rather comely, despite the tattoo that looked hke 
boils. None showed the least fear or bashf ulness ; 
but when the Baloch chaffed them, and asked 
how they would like the ' men in trowsers ' as 
husbands, they simply replied, ' Not at all ! ' 

At sunrise on the next morning we resumed 
our march, following the left bank of the Rufu, 
which is here called Kirua. Por about three 
miles it is a broad line of flat boulders, thicket, 
grass, and sedge, with divers trickling streams 
between. At the Maurwi village the several 
branches anastomoze, forming a deep and strong 
but navigable stream, about 30 yards broad, 
and fenced with bulmno: masses of veoretation. 
Thence we bent northward, over rolling ground 
of red clay, here cultivated, there a thorny jungle, 
trending to Tamota, another bluff in the hill- 
curtain of TJsumbara. The paths were crowded 
with a skin-clad and grass-kilted race, chiefly 
women and small girls; the latter, by-the-by, 
displaying very precocious developments, and 
leading children, each with a button of hair left 
upon its scraped crown. The adults, toiling under 
loads of manioc, holcus and maize, pumpkins and 
plantains, poultry, sugar-cane, and water-pots, in 



USA 



CYNOPHAGISM. 



201 



which tufts of leaves had been stuck to prevent 
splashing, were bound for a Golio (market) held 
in an open place. Here their own land begins : 
none started at or fled from the white face. 

The men chip their teeth to points, and, 
like the Wasumbara, punch out in childhood 
one incisor from the lower jaw ; a piece of 
dried rush or sugar-cane distends the ear-lobe 
to an unsightly size. All carried bows and 
arrows. Some shouldered such hoes and hat- 
chets as English children use upon the sands : 
here bounteous earth, fertilized by the rains of 
heaven, requires merely the scratching of a man's 
staff. Others led stunted curs, much like the 
pariah dogs of Hindostan, adorned with leather 
collars : I afterwards saw similar pets at the 
Yellalah of the Congo river. The animals ar:^ 
prime favourites with the savages, as were the 
Spanish puppies in the days of Charles II.; they 
hold a dog-stew to be a dish fit for a king. In 
West Africa also the meat finds many admirers, 
and some missionaries in the Niger regions have 
described it as somewhat glutinous, but 'very 
sweet.' Why should we not have cynophages as 
well as hippophages ? 

The salutations of these savages provoked the 
comical wrath of Sidi Bombay ; and indeed they 



202 



PASUNGA. 



were not a little ridiculous. Acquaintances stood 
afar off, as if in fear of each other, and nosed 
forth ' Kua-heri,' and protracted hans and huns, 
until they had reKeved their minds. None, even 
the women, refused to greet us, and at times 
Yambo — the state ? — was uttered simultaneously 
by a score of sable hps. Having duly stared and 
been stared at, we unloaded for rest about 9.30 
A. M., under a spreading tree, near the large, 
double-fenced village of Pasunga, belonging to 
one of Sultan Kimwere's multitudinous sons. 
Again clouds obscured the air, gathering thick 
upon the mountain-tops, whence came the mut- 
terings of thunder from afar. 

Presently the pleasant coolness drew from 
the Baloch cries of Safar ! Safar ! — let us march ! 
At 1 p. M. we resumed our way, and presently 
we passed, on our left hand, a tank of mire and 
water, thinly sprinkled with paddy -birds, sand- 
pipers, and Egyptian geese — all exceedingly wild. 
Hornbills screamed from the neighbouring trees, 
and on the mud my companion shot a specimen of 
the gorgeous crested crane, whose back feathers 
have made bonnets fine. After an hour's march 
we skirted a village where the people peremptorily 
commanded us to halt. We attributed this an- 
noyance to Wazira, who was forthwith visited 



NEWS! 



203 



with a severe wigging. It is, liowever, partly the 
custom of the country : and even in the far less 
barbarous Angola, to pass a farm-house without 
entering it is to insult the proprietor. Man 
claims a right to hear from the wandering 
stranger news — a pabulum which his soul loves : 
to coin the most improbable nonsense ; to be told 
lies with the bloom on them, and to retail them 
to his neighbours, are the mental distractions of 
the idler, equally the prinium mobile of a Cri- 
mean 'shave' and of an African palaver. But 
the impending rain had sharpened our tempers. 
We laughed in the faces of our furious expostu- 
lators, and bidding them stop us if they could, we 
pursued our way. 

Presently ascending a hill and making an 
abrupt turn from N. West nearly due East, we 
found ourselves opposite and about 10 miles dis- 
tant from a tall azure hill-curtain, the highlands 
of Puga. Below, the plain was everywhere po- 
pulous with scatters of haycock villages. Lofty 
tamarinds, the large-leaved plantain, and the 
parasol-shaped papaw grew wild amongst the 
thorny trees. Water stood in black pools, and 
around it waved luxuriant sugar-cane : in a mo- 
ment every mouth was tearing at and chewing 
the end of a long pole. The cane is of the edible 



204 



THE WET NIGHT. 



species ; the officinal varieties are too luscious, 
cloying, and bilious to be sucked with impunity 
by civilized man. After walking that day a total 
of 16 miles, about 4 p. m. we were driven by a 
violent storm of thunder, lightning, and raw 
S. West wind, which at once lowered the mercury 
several degrees, and caused the slaves to shudder 
and whimper, into the Banda-ni or Palaver-house 
of a large village. Our shelter consisted of a 
thatched roof propped by rough uprights and 
wanting walls : the floor was half mud, half 
mould, and the furniture was represented by stone 
slabs used as hones, and by hollowed logs once 
bee-hives and now seats. The only tenants were 
flies and mosquitos. We lighted fires to keep off 
fevers : this precaution should never be neglected 
by the African traveller, even during the closest 
evenings of the tropical hot season. Our Baloch, 
after the usual wrangle about rations, waxed me- 
lancholy, shook their heads, and declared that 
the Kausi, the S. West trade-wind that brings 
the wet monsoon, was fast approaching, if, indeed, 
it had not regularly set in. 

Sunday, February 15, dawned with one of 
those steady little cataclysms, which to be seen 
advantageously must be seen near the Line. At 
11 A.M., thoroughly tired of the steaming Banda-ni, 



THE BAXANA. 



205 



our men loaded, and we set out in a lucid interval 
towards the highlands. As we approached them 
the rain shrank to a mere spitting, gradually 
ceased, and was replaced by that reeking, fetid, 
sepulchral heat, which travellers in the tropics 
have learned to fear. The path lay over the 
normal red clay, crossed low ground where trees 
decayed in stagnant water, and spanned the cul- 
tivated plain of dark mould at the foot of the 
mountains, with a vista of far blue hill on the 
right. Ve rested a few minutes before attempt- 
ing the steep incline before us : the shppery, 
muddy way had wearied our slaves, though 
aided by three porters hired that morning, and 
the sun, strugghng with vapours, was still hot 
enough to overpower the whole party. 

At 1 p. M. we proceeded to breast the pass 
leading from the lowland alluvial plain to the 
threshold of the ^thiopic Olympus. The gently- 
rising path, spread with decayed fohage, wound 
amongst groves of large, coarse bananas, whose 
arms of satinv sheen here smoothed and streaked, 
there shredded by the hill -winds, hid purple 
flowers and huge bunches of green fruit. The 
Musa, which an old traveller describes as an 
assemblage of leaves interwoven and twisted to- 
gether so neatly, that they form a plant about 15 



206 



THE BANANA. 



spans liigli, is an aboriginal of Hindostan, and 
possibly of East Africa, where, however, the seeds 
might easily have been floated from the East : it 
grows almost spontaneously in TJnyamwezi and 
upon the shores of the great inland lakes. Here 
the banana,^ which maturing rapidly affords a 
perennial supply of fruit, and whose enormous 
rate of produce has been described by many 
writers, is the staff of savage life, windy as the 
acorn which is supposed to have fed our fore- 
fathers in Europe. As usual where men are com- 
pelled by their wants to utilize a single tree, the 
cocoa, for instance, or the calabash, these East 
Africans apply the plantain to a vast variety of 
uses, and allow no part of it to be wasted. The 
stem when green gives water enough to quench 
the wanderer's thirst and to wash his hands ; the 
parenchyma has somewhat the taste of cucumber, 
and sun-dried it is employed for fuel. The fresh 
cool leaves are converted into rain-pipes, spoons, 
plates, and even bottles : desiccated they make 
thatch, and a substitute for wrapping-papers ; and 

* The banana is the Musa Sapientum : the plantain is the 
M. Paradisiaca, and Linnaeus picturesquely adopted Musa 
from the Arabic Mauz (;^) : in India the small species is 

called plantain, the large horse-plantain, and the French term 
both ' bananes.' In E. Africa there are half-a-dozen varieties 
of the 'Ndizi.' 



MOUNTAIN AIR. 



207 



some have believed tliat tliey were the original 
fig-leaves of the first man and his wife. The 
trunk-fibre does good service in all the stages be- 
tween thread and cord : the fruit yields wine, 
sugar, and vinegar, besides bread and vegetable, 
and even the flower is reduced to powder and 
mixed with snuff. Xever transplanted and allowed 
to grow from its own suckers, this banana has now 
degenerated : it is easy to see, however, that it 
comes of a noble stock. In parts of the interior 
the people have during a portion of the year 
little else to live upon but this fruit, boiled, baked, 
and dried : it then becomes a nauseating diet, 
causing flatulence, indigestion, heart-burn, and 
other gastric evils. After endming the infliction 
I never again could look a banana in the face. 

Issuing from the dripping canopy, we breasted 
a steep goat-track, we forded a crystal burn, and 
having reached the midway we sat down to enjoy 
the rarified au% which felt as if a weight had been 
suddenly taken off our shoulders ; it was Sao Paolo 
after Santos. A palpable change of climate had al- 
ready taken place, and the sunshine was tempered 
with clouds which we now blessed. The view 
before us was extensive and suggestive, if not 
beautiful. The mountain fell under our feet in 
rugged folds clothed with patches of plantains, 



208 



THE HUBBUB. 



wild mulberries, custard apples, and stately trees 
whose lustrous green glittered against the red 
ochreous earth. The sarsaparilla vine hung in 
clusters and festoons from the high supporting 
limbs of the tamarind ; the tall toddy-palm raised 
its fantastic arms over the dwarf fan palm, and 
bitter oranges mingled aroma with herbs not 
unlike our mint and sage. Opposite and below, 
half veiled with rank steam, the ' smokes ' of 
Western Africa, lay the yellow Nyika and the 
Wazegura lowlands : it was traversed by a serpen- 
tine of trees marking the course of the Mkomafi, 
an affluent of the lower Panga-ni river. Three 
dwarf cones, the Mbara Hills, bearing 230'' and 
distant about eight miles, crowned the desert, and 
far beyond the well-wooded line of the E^ufu, a 
uniform purple plain stretched to the rim of the 
Southern and Western horizon, as far as * our 
glasses could trace it. 

We were startled from our observations by a 
prodigious hubbub. The three fresh porters posi- 
tively refused to proceed unless a certain number 
of cloths were sent forwards to propitiate the 
magnates of Euga. This trick was again easily 
traced to Wazira, who had been lecturing us all 
the morning upon the serious nature of our under- 
taking. Sultan Kimwere was a potent monarch, 



THE MOUNTAIN. 



209 



not a Mamba. His ' ministers ' and councillors 
would, unless well-paid, avert from us their 
countenances. We must enter with discharge of 
musketry to salute the lieges, and by all means 
we must be good boys and do as we were bid. 
The Baloch smiled contempt, and pulling up the 
porters from the ground, loaded them deaf to all 
remonstrance. 

Hesuming our march with hearts beating 
aloud under the unusual exercise, we climbed, 
rather than walked, up the deep bed of a torrent, 
— everywhere the primitive zigzag. Villages then 
began to appear perched like eyries upon the hill- 
tops, and villagers gathered to watch our ap- 
proach. The Baloch asked us to taste the water 
of a spring that rose hard by : sparkling in the 
cup it was icy cold, with a perceptible chalybeate 
flavour, and the fouu tain-head was stained with 
a coat of rust. Eastern, and we may say South- 
ern, Africa from the Equator to the Cape, is a land 
whose stones are iron, and the people declare 
that they have dug hrass. Copper has been long 
known, gold even longer, and the diamond, in the 
South at least, is the discovery of this our day.^ 

^ Heeren believes, with Pliny, that the ancients discovered 
diamonds mingled with gold in certain N . African localities, 
especially Meroe. 

VOL. II. 14 



210 



THE VIEW. 



At 4 P. M. we stood upon the Pass summit, but 
we found no tableland, as about Slioa. This patch 
of highlands, whose limits have been roughly laid 
down between N. lat. 1° and S. lat. 6°, is to the 
eastern regions what the massif of the Camarones 
and its system in N. lat. 5° is to Western Africa. 
The latter is known to be a volcano, and the 
former has been also reported of igneous forma- 
tion ; ^ here, however, it appears in the shape of 
granite and sandstones. Both are abnormal eleva- 
tions, declining to the coast-fringing ranges, which 
latter correspond with our Eastern and Western 
Ghauts of Hindostan, and both, I may venture to 
predict, will in due time be colonized by white 
men. In the present day there is no better con- 
vict station than the Camarones mountain, and 
Usumbara might be preferred to the Andamans 
as a penitentiary for criminals who have deserved 
the Kala pdni. 

The ' cloud-hght ' was that of our English 
climate : the scenery around us reminded my 
companion of Almorah, me of the Blue Mountains 
in Southern India. There were the same rounded 
cones, fertilized by rainy winds, tapestried with 
velvety grass, and ribbon' d with paths of red 

1 Doenyo Mburo, for' instance, placed by Mr Wakefield 
soutli of the Salt Lake Naivasha or Balibali. 



FUGA. 



211 



clay ; the same ' Sliolas,' black forest patches 
clothing the slopes; the same emerald swamps 
through which transparent runnels continually 
trickled, and little torrents and rocky linns. Here, 
howeyer, we find a contrast of aspects : the !N'orth- 
ern and Eastern slopes are bluff and barren, whilst 
the Southern and Western teem with luxuriant 
yegetation. The reeking and well-irrigated plains 
to the TTest are well wooded, and we were shown 
the water of Masindi, a long narrow tank, upon 
whose banks elephants, they say, abound, i^. 
Westward the mountains are apparently higher 
and steeper, and about 10 miles farther West the 
giant flanks of Makumbara, whose head was cap- 
ped with cloud-heaps, bound our prospect. We 
now stood about 4000 feet aboye sea leyel ; 37 di- 
rect miles from the coast, and 74 to 75 along the 
winding riyer. 

After another three-mile walk alonsr the flanks 

o 

of domed hills, and crossing a shallow burn which 
seemed to freeze our parched feet, we turned a 
corner and suddenly sighted, upon the summit of 
a grassy cone opposite, an imfenced heap of hay- 
cock huts, a cluster of bee-hiyes with concentric 
rings — Puga. As we drew near, our Baloch 
formed up and fired a yoUey, which brought out 
of the settlement the hind and his wife, and his 



212 



THE MINISTERS. 



whole meine. This being one of the cities for- 
bidden to strangers, we were led by Wazira through 
tiniid croAvds, that shrank back as we approached, 
to four tattered huts, standing about 300 feet be- 
low the settlement, and assigned by superstition 
as a traveller's bungalow. Even the son and heir of 
great Kimwere must here abide till the lucky hour 
admits him to the royal city and presence. The cold 
rain and the sharp rarified air, which would have 
been a tonic in a well-appointed sanitarium, render- 
ed any shelter acceptable : we cleared the hovels 
of sheep and goats, housed our valuables, and sent 
Sidi Bombay to the Sultan, requesting the honour 
of an interview. 

Before dark appeared three bare-headed Mdoe 
or Ministers, who declared in a long palaver that 
council must squat upon two knotty points. 
Primo, why and wherefore had we entered the 
king's country via the hostile Wazegura ? Secun- 
do, when would his Majesty's Mganga or Magician 
priest find an hour propitious for the ceremony ? 
Sharp-witted Hamdan, at once and unprompted, 
declared us to be also Waganga, men whose pow- 
ers extended to measuring the moon and stars, 
and to controlling the wind and rain. Away ran 
the ministers to report the wonder, and whilst 



THE MEDICINE-MAN. 



213 



they are absent I will briefly explain what in 
these regions a Mganga is. 

The Mganga in Angola Xganga, called by 
the Arabs Bassar (seer) and Tabib (physician), and 
by us priest, magician, rain-doctor, and medicine- 
man, combines, as these translations show, medi- 
cal with supernatural powers : he may be consid- 
ered the embryo of a sacerdotal order amongst the 
embryo civilizations of man. Thus Siberia has 
Shamans, and Greenland Angekoks; Xorth Amer- 
ica Medicine-men, and South America Pages : the 
Galla believes in his Kalishah, the Kru Republic 
in her Deyabos, the Congo in Petish-men, and the 
Cape Kafirs in witch doctors, who, with certain of 
the missionaries, have ever been the chief origin- 
ators of our colonial troubles. In Eastern Africa, 
from the Somali country southwards, the rains, 
so wearisome to the traveller, are a boon to the 
savage, who, especially in the sub -tropical regions 
and those beyond the path of the sun, sees dming 
droughts his children and cattle dying of hunger 
and thirst. Eain-charming is the popular belief 
of Africa, where the new comer's reception will 
generally depend upon the state of the weather. 
The demand produces a supply of intellectuals, 
who, for the consideration of a lazy monastic kind 



214 



RAIN-PRAYERS. 



of life, abundant respect from an ignorant laity, 
and the great political influence wliicli they com- 
mand, boldly assert an empire over the meteors. 
The folly is not confined, be it said, to these 
barbarous lands : in Ireland the owner of a four- 
leaved shamrock can or could cause or stop 
showers, and the Eins on board our ships still 
deal with the clerk of the weather for fair winds. 
The Hindu Jogi, the Bayragi, and the Sita-Bami 
have similar powers : at Porebunder I heard of a 
man who, when torrents of rain injured the crops, 
was threatened by the E^aja with a ' cotton coat,' 
that is to say, with a padded dressing-gown, well 
oiled and greased, girt tightly round him, and set 
on fire. In civilization the last remnant of the 
barbarous belief is the practice of public prayer for 
rain, a process far less troublesome and not nearly 
so efiicacious as planting trees and preserving the 
land from being disforested. During the last 
threatened drought in Syria the people of Bayrut 
assembled in the main square, all separated into 
groups according to their faiths, of which there 
are a couple of dozen. One party was of chil- 
dren, who, when the seniors failed, thus addressed 
heaven : ' O Lord, if Thou disregard the petitions 
of our parents, they being sinners, and so forth, 
at least listen to us, being still in our virginal in- 



THE RAIN-DOCTOR. 



215 



nocence ! ' But the rain did not come, and tlie 
innocents went away unwhipped. Had the late 
Pnad Pasha been there he would, before sanc- 
tioning the assemblage, have consulted a meteor- 
ologist. 

Near the Line it is easy to predict rain, and 
with thermometer and hyo:rometer — the latter far 
better than a barometer — man should neyer make 
a mistake. The Mganga delays his incantations 
till mists gather upon the mountain-tops and 
the Petish is finished, as the cooling air can no 
longer support the superabundant moisture. 
Success brings both solid pudding and empty 
praise : failure, the trifling inconyenience of 
changing residence. Amongst the fiercer races, 
howeyer, the Ayizard not unfrequently falls a yic- 
tim to hope deferred, and there ^tq parts of Africa 
where, as the yenerable Mr Moffat says, he seldom, 
if eyer, dies upon his mat. 

The Mganga of Usumbara has manifold duties. 
He must as often be a rain-stopper as a rain- 
healer. He sprinkles the stranger with the blood 
of sheep and other medicines, the aspersory being 
a cow's tail : upon the departing guest he gently 
spits, bidding him go in peace and do the people 
no harm. He marks iyory with masric sisrns, to 
ensure the tusk safely reaching the coast. Dur- 



216 



ORDEALS. 



ing sickness lie lays the ghost or haunting fiend, 
and applies the mde simples which here act 
' second causes.' He presides at the savage 
ordeals. If the Sultan lose health or a villager 
die, he finds out the guilty one that hewitched the 
sufi'erer, and hands liim over to the ' secular arm ' 
for hurning, cutting to pieces, or other such well- 
merited doom. Here, unless well fee'd, he thrusts 
into the accused's mouth a red-hot hatchet, which 
has no power to hurn the innocent or the strong- 
nerved guilty : in other pai-ts he makes him or 
her swallow a cup of poison, which is duly tem- 
pered for the wealthy. In Usumhara the instru- 
ment of his craft is a bundle of small sticks : these 
form, when thrown upon the ground, certain 
figures : hence the Arabs translate Bao, or 
Uganga — the Mganga's art — by llaml or Geo- 
mancy, whose last and ignoblest form is the ' Book 
of Pate,' attributed to Napoleon I. Similarly in 
Kafir land, sorcerers use sticks or bones, which 
are supposed to have the power of motion. 

The Waganga are mostly open to the persua- 
sions of cloth and beads. One saw the spirit of a 
pale-face occupying a chair which was brought 
as a present to King Kimwere, and broadly in- 
sinuated that none but the wise deserved such 
seat. But let not the reader suppose that these 



THE SEER. 



217 



men are pure impostors. It would be, indeed, a 
subtle task to trace bow far tbose wbo deal in tbe 
various mysteries called supernaturalisms are de- 
ceived or are deceivers, impostors or believers. 
Pools and knaves tbere are, of course, in abund- 
ance ; but tbere is a residue, a tertium quid, wbicb 
is neitber one nor tbe otber, and yet wbicb custom 
and education condemn to act like botb. Mental 
reservation and pious frauds are certainly not 
monopoHzed by civilization, nor by any stage of 
society. Tbere is no folly conceivable by tbe 
mind of man in wbicb man bas not bonestly, 
firmly, and piously placed bis trust. And wben 
man lays down bis life, or gives up everytbing 
wbicb makes life wortb living for, in testimony 
to bis belief, be proves conclusively, not tbe trutb 
of bis tenets, but tbat be bebeved tbem to be 
true : be compels us to wonder at tbe obstinacy, 
ratber tban to admire tbe fortitude, of tbe martyr. 

Tbe word Bassar, a seer, forms, I may bere re- 
mark, a connecting link between tbe mental sigbt 
of tbe Arabs, tbe second-sigbt of Scotland, and, 
to mention no otbers, tbe clanvoyance of modern 
mesmerism. It alludes to tbat abnormal ex- 
ertion of tbe will, sometimes verging upon tbe 
ecstatic state, wbicb enables tbe brain to bebold 
before it, and witbout external sigbt, a panorama 



218 



THE SEER. 



of the past, the present and the future ; whilst 
a thousand instances have shown that such scenic 
exhihitions of thino-s absolutely unknown to the 
seer have actually come to pass. Almost invari- 
ably also the Mganga has, or induces, the ' disease 
which precedes the power to divine ' ; and he at- 
tributes it to ancestral ghosts, which would now 
be called spirits. 

At 6 p. M. the ' Ministers ' ran back, and 
summoned us, breathless, to the 'Palace.' They 
led the way, through wind, and rain, and gather- 
ing gloom, to a clump of the usual huts, half 
hidden by trees, and spreading over a little emi- 
nence opposite to and below Fuga. We were 
allowed but three Baloch as escort. Theii' match- 
locks were taken away, and a demand was put in 
for our swords, which of course we insisted upon 
retaining. The natural suspiciousness of the 
negi'o is always exaggerated by being in the 
neighbourhood of a more advanced race. IIer(^ 
even Ilamdan became a Rustam. 

Sultan Kimwere half rose from his couch as 
we entered, and motioned us to sit upon low stools 
in front of him. The Simba wa Muigni — Lion of 
the Lord^ — was an old, old man (un vieux vieux), 

1 Dr Krapf writes, ' Siraba wa Muene,' i. e. the Lion is 
Himself, or the Lion of the Self-Existent (God). 



THE LION OF THE LORD. 



219 



with emaciated frame, a beardless, wrinkled face 
like a grandam's, a shaven head, disfurnished 
jaws, and hands and feet stained with leprous 
spots. We saw nothing of the 'Kon-like royal 
personage,' the ' tall and corpulent form with en- 
gaging features,' and the ' large eyes, red and 
penetrating, which cast a powerful look ' upon Dr 
Krapf in September, 1848, when the 'king' visited 
him, with a Highland tail and heralds singing 
out, ' Lion ! ' His subjects declare him to be a 
centagenarian, and he is certainly dying of age 
and decay — the worst of diseases. The royal 
dress was a Surat cap much the worse for wear, 
and a loin-wrap as tattered. He was covered, as 
he lay upon his J agd, or cot of bamboo and cow- 
skin, with the doubled cotton cloth called in 
India a ' do-pattd,' and he rested upon a Persian 
rug apparently coeval with his person. 

The hut resembled that of a simple cultivator ; 
possibly it was as good as the palace of wicker- 
wattles occupied by Henry II. at Dublin. It 
was redolent of high dignitaries, dirty as then' 
prince, some fanning him, others chatting, and 
all puffing from long-stemmed pipes with small 
ebony bowls the Abnus, which, according to the 
Baloch, is found growing all over the country. 
Our errand was inquired, and we were duly wel- 



220 



THE LION OF THE LORD. 



corned to Puga : as the two Wasawaliili secreta- 
ries had long ago been dismissed, and none could 
read the Sayyid of Zanzibar's introductory letter, 
I was compelled to act clerk. The centagenarian 
had heard that we were accustomed to scrutinize 
trees and stones as well as stars : he therefore 
decided that we really were European Waganga, 
or medicine-men, and he directed us at once to 
compound a draught which would restore him that 
evening to health and strength. I objected that 
all our drugs had been left behind at Panga-ni : 
by no means satisfied with the excuse, he signi- 
fied that we might wander about the hills, and 
seek the plants required. 

After half an hour's conversation, Hamdan 
being our interpreter, we were dismissed with a 
renewal of welcome. On our return to the 
' Ti'aveller's Bungalow,' the present was for- 
warded to the Sultan with the usual ceremony, 
and we found awaiting us a fine bullock, a basket 
full of Sima — young Indian corn pounded and 
boiled to a hard, thick paste — and balls of unripe 
bananas, peeled and mashed up with sour milk, 
thus converting the fruit to a vegetable. Our Ba- 
loch at once addressed themselves to the manufac- 
turing of beef, and they devoured their steaks 



THE SWEET SLEEP. 



221 



with such a will that unpleasant STmptoms pre- 
sently declared themselves in camp. 

That day we had covered 10 miles, equal, 
perhaps, to 30 on a decent road in a temperate 
clime. The angry blast, the dashing rain, and 
the groaning trees, formed a concert which, 
heard from within a warm hut, affected us 
pleasurably : I would not have exchanged it for 
the music of Verdi. We slept sweetly, as only 
travellers can sleep. 



CHAPTEE VIII. 



THE MARCH BACK. THE HIPPOPOTAMUS* HUNT. 
THE RETURN TO ZANZIBAR. 

' Wasteful, forth 
Walks the dire Power of pestilent disease. 
A thousand hideous fiends her course attend, 
Sick nature blasting, and to heartless woe 
And feeble desolation, casting down 
The towering hopes and all the pride of man.'* 

The Seasons. 

The Anglo-African traveller, in this section of 
the 19th century, is an over-worked professional. 
Pormerly the reading public was satisfied with 
dry details of mere discovery, and was delighted 
with a few longitudes, latitudes, and altitudes. 
Of late in this, as in all other pursuits, the 
standard has been raised. Whilst marching so 
many miles per diem, and watching a certain 



THE AFRICAN TEA VELLER. 



223 



number of hours per noctem, the traveller, who 
is, in fact, his own general, adjutant, quarter- 
master, and commissariat officer, is expected to 
survey and observe, to record meteorology and 
trigonometry, to shoot and stuff birds and beasts, 
to collect geological specimens and theories, to 
gather political and commercial information, be- 
ginning, of course, with cotton ; to advance the 
infant study anthropology ; to keep accounts, to 
sketch, to indite a copious, legible journal — notes 
are now not deemed sufficient — and to forward 
long reports which shall prevent the Royal Geo- 
graphical Society napping through its evenings. 

It is right, I own, to establish a high standard, 
which ensures some work being done ; but ex- 
plorations should be distinguished from common 
journeys, and a broad line drawn between the 
possible and the impossible. Before a march, 
when all my time was certain to be amply occu- 
pied, an ardent gentleman once requested me to 
collect beetles, and a second sent me recipes for 
preserving the tenantry of shells. Another un- 
conscionable physicist deemed it his duty to 
complain because I had not used a sextant at 
Meccah, and yet another because I had not inves- 
tigated the hypsometry of Harar. It was gener- 
ally asserted that my humble studies of geogra- 



224 



A GRIEVANCE. 



phy in the Lake B;egions were of no importance, 
because tlie latitudes and longitudes, not the 
descriptions of the country, were the work of 
another hand. A bad attack of ophthalmia in 
Sind, and a due regard for eyes which have to 
do the work of four average pair, made me re- 
solve, in 1849, never to use sextant or circle 
except when there is an absolute necessity. A 
President of the E^oyal Geographical Society 
wrote that I had done nothing for geography in 
South America, after having, in one of my half-a- 
dozen journeys, through the almost unexplored 
Sierra de San Luiz in the Argentine Hepublic, 
inspected and described 1300 miles of a river cer- 
tainly unknown to him 10 years ago. This meagre 
idea of geography, reducing a journey to a skeleton 
of perfectly uninteresting ' crucial stations,' care- 
fully laid down by lunars, occultations, and other 
observations, and fitted only for the humblest pro- 
fessional map-maker, seems to have taken root 
in the Uoyal Geographical Society's brain, since 
the days when that learned body was presided 
over by Admiral Smyth. Volney never handkd 
sextant ; yet see what Gibbon says of his labours. 
"We may now hope to see all such things changed. 

These African explorations are campaigns 
on a small scale, wherein the traveller, unaided 



DANGER OF INSTRUMENTS. 



225 



by discipline, has to overcome all the troubles, 
hardships, and perils of savage warfare. He 
must devote himself to feeding, diilling, and 
showing his men the use of arms, and to the 
conduct of a caravan, as well as study the baro- 
meter, and measm'e lunar distances. The ^lis- 
sionaries, and all those best acquainted with the 
country, did not approve of our making observ- 
ations at Usumbara. The sight of an instru- 
ment suo?opests to barbarians that the strano^er is 
bringing down the sun, stopping the rain, breed- 
ing a pestilence, or bewitching the land ; and the 
dazzle of a bmss instrument awakes savage cu- 
pidity. Such operations are sometimes impossi- 
ble, and often, as in Xorth Africa, they are highly 
unadvisable. The climate and petite sante, to 
say nothing of catarrh and jungle fever, also rob 
man of energy as well as of health : he cannot, 
if he would, collect shells and beetles, whilst the 
lightest geodesical labom^s not unfrequently, as 
these pages show, end badly. 

The rainy season had fau4y set in at Fuga, 
though the half of February had not elapsed. 
Heavy clouds rolled up from the South- West, and 
during om* two days and nights upon the hills 
the weather was a succession of drip, drizzle, and 
drench. In vain we looked for a star — we were 

VOL. II. 15 



226 



THE RAINS. 



compelled to leave Euga after two niglits, with- 
out a single observation : even the sun of S. lat. 
6° could not disperse the dense raw vapours that 
rose from the steamy ground. I feared to linger 
longer in Usumbara. We daily expected the 
ine^dtahle ' seasoning fever,' the rains would make 
the lowland a hot-bed of disease, and our men 
were not clad to resist the cold — 73° (F.) at 4 p.m., 
whilst upon the plains the mercury ranged be- 
tween 81° and 99°. In the dry monsoon this 
route might be made practicable to Chaga and 
KiKma-njaro, both of which have been proposed 
in the Anglo-Indian papers as Sanitaria. With 
an escort of a hundred musketeers, and at an 
expense of £500, the invalid who desu^es to try 
this African Switzerland may, if perfectly sound 
in wind, limb, and digestion, reach, despite all 
the Wamasai, the snowy region, after 10 moun- 
tain-marches, which should not occupy more 
than a month. The next century will see these 
conditions changed. 

Finding it impossible to push farther into 
Usumbara, we applied ourselves to gathering gen- 
eral information. Sultan Kimwcre, I was told, is 
the fourth of a dynasty of Tondeurs and Ecor- 
cheurs originally from Ngu or Nguru, a hilly 
region to the West and South of the Upper 



KING KIMWERE. 



227 



Panga-m stream. His father, Shubugali, conquered 
Bondei and pushed the Usumbara frontier from 
Pare Eastward to the sea and from Msihi (in M. 
Rebmann Emsihi Mdi), a mountain two days' 
march East of Euga, to the Panga-ni river and 
the Indian Ocean. He left Usumbara to Kim- 
were, Bumburri and Meringa-mountainto younger 
sons, and Msihi to a favourite daughter : this 
division of his dominions natm^ally caused lasting 
bloodshed amongst his successors. Kimwere, in 
youth a warrior of fame, ranked highest in the 
triumvhate of mountain-kings, the others being 
B'ana Bongwa of Chaga and B'ana Kizungu of 
Ukwafi. In age he has lost ground. His sister's 
sons, the chiefs of Bungu in Msihi, rebelled, 
destroyed his hosts by rolling down stones ; they 
were reduced, and sent to the slave market, only 
by the arms of 25 Baloch. The Wazegura, I have 
said, are also troublesome neighbours. Kimwere 
has a body of 400 musketeers whom he calls his 
Waengrezi or Enghshmen : they are dispersed 
amongst the villages, for now the oryx-horn is 
silent and the beacon is never extinguished upon 
the mountain-passes. This ' Lion of the Lord ' 
asserts present kinghood in one point only : he 
has some 300 wives, each surrounded by slaves and 
portioned with a hut and a plantation. His little 



228 



KING KIMWERE. 



family amounts to between 80 and 90 sons, some 
of whom have Islamized, whilst their sire re- 
mains a most ' pragmatical pagan.' The Lion's 
person is sacred, — even a runaway slave saves life 
by touching the hem of his garment. Presently 
he will become a ghost, it will be wrapped up in 
matting, and placed sitting - wise under the 
deserted hut, a stick denoting the actual spot : 
dogs will be slaughtered for the funeral-feast, the 
people will cry, beat drums, and say, ' Lord, 
why must we die ? ' and Muigni Khatib, reigning 
instead of his sire, will put to death all who 
dare, during the first two months of Matanga 
(mourning), to travel upon the King's highway. 

Meanwhile Sultan Kimwere rules at home 
like a right kingly African king, by selling his 
subjects, men, women, and children, old and 
young, gentle and simple, singly or, when need 
lays down the law, by families and by villages. 
Death, imprisonment, and mutilation of the hand 
are foreign articles of state machinery and rare ; 
sale of the person and confiscation of property are 
indigenous and common. None may hold pro- 
perty without this petty despot's permission, and, 
as we had an opportunity of seeing, the very 
' ministers ' dare not openly receive presents. In 
a realm where coin is not current revenue is thus 



FUGA. 



229 



collected. Cattle-breeders contribute the first- 
fruits of their flocks and herds ; elephant-hunters 
offer every second tusk, and traders are mulcted 
in a portion of their merchandise. Cultivators 
annually pay 10 measures of grain; hence the 
quantity exported from Tanga and Panga-ni to 
Zanzibar and even to Arabia. The lion's share is 
reserved for the Lion and his familv, the crumbs 
are distributed amongst the councillors and the 
corps of guards (Waengrezi). 

The ' headquarter village ' of TJsumbara is 
Euga, situated in a cool healthy climate, nearly 
4500 feet upon the sea-line. The town is a heap 
of some 500 huts, containing, I was told, in round 
numbers, 3000 souls.^ It is forbidden to foreigners 
because the king's wives inhabit a part, and it 
also shelters the chief magician-priests, in whose 
' lodges ' criminals may take sanctuary. The 
place is completely defenceless and unwalled : 
the tenements are the circular habitations, com- 

1 Mr Cooley (Inner Africa Laid Open, p. 75) calls in Vuga, 
and gravely clironicles the valuable observation of ' Kliamis ' his 
'intelligent Sawahili,' who made it three times as large as the 
town of Zanzibar. He confounds (p. 63) with Dos Santos 
(Hiotory of Eastern Ethiopia, iii. 1), through 8° of distance, 
Karagwah or Karague with Gurague in Abyssinia, Gurague 
meaning the left hand to one looking westward, and thus corre- 
sponding with the Arabic El Sham (Syria or Damascus). We 
also find (p. 55) Sadana for Sa'adani, and Wadoa for AYadoe. 



230 



THE HOMESTEAD. 



mon to Inner Africa from Harar to Tinbuktu. 
Erameworks of concentric wattle-rings wrapped 
round with plantain leaves are fastened to slender 
upriglits planted in the ground, and the inside is 
plastered over with fine mud. A low solid door 
acts also as window, and the conical roof is sup- 
ported by a single central tree; a fire-place of 
stones distributes smoke as well as heat, and a 
chimney would be held expensive and uncomfort- 
able. In some homesteads the semi-circle oppo- 
site the entrance is occupied by a raised plank 
framework forming a family bedstead, and in a 
few cases a kind of second half-story, like a mag- 
nified bunk, is raised above it. 

The Wasumbara are abundantly leavened with 
Semitic blood ; and they increase and multiply, to 
judge from the lodges capping every hill, and 
from the younglings who apparently form more 
than the normal fifth. Yet the Arabs declare 
that the women are not proHfic, six children being 
a large family : this, if fact, must be attributed to 
preventatives, abortion, and infanticide. The 
snowy heads of the seniors show that there are still 
in the land Macrobian J^thiopians, men who die of 
sheer old age ; and what else can be expected from 
human beings who have hardly an idea, except 
the fear of sale, to impede digestion ? The males. 



THE PEOPLE. 



231 



though of light brown colour and stoutly made, 
are plain and short : they chip their teeth to 
points like saws, cats, or crocodiles, and they 
brand a circular beauty-spot in the mid-forehead. 
Their heads are shaven, their feet are bare, and 
except talismans round the neck, wrist, and ankles, 
their only wear is a sheet thrown over the 
shoulders, and a rag or skin tied around the loins. 
The characteristic grass-kilt of the Bedawin of 
the plains is unfitted for the highlands. A knife 
is stuck in the waist-cord, and men walk 
abroad with pipe, bow, and quiverless arrows 
tipped with bone or iron. The women are 
adorned with tahsmans in leather bags, and with 
massive collars of white beads, now in fashion 
throughout this region : a ' distinguished person' 
will carry from 3 to 4 lbs. of these barbaric decor- 
ations. The feminine body dress is the hideous 
African sheet bound tightly under the arms and 
falling over the bosom to the ankles. 

The Wasumbara of both sexes are for Africans 
industrious, the result of cold climate necessitat- 
ing comparatively many comforts. The husband 
and children work in the fields or drive the cattle 
to graze when the sun has dried up the dew : to- 
wards evening they fence the animals in the house 
yard, and stow away the young within the hut. At 



232 



THE PEOPLE. 



times they amuse themselves with running down 
the little Saltiana antelopes, and with throwing 
sticks at the guinea-fowls, which they have not 
yet learned to domesticate. To the goodwife's 
share falls the work of cleansing the little corral, 
of fetching wood and water, of pounding maize 
in a large tin mortar, of halving plantain-hread, of 
cooking generally, and of carrying as well as of 
bearing the bahy : it is evident that here, as 
among the Mormons, division of labour is called 
for, and it is readily supplied, without fear of 
arrest, by polygamy and concubinage. Meat is 
considered a luxury ; the cattle want the enlarged 
udder, that unerring sign of bovine civilization, 
and an English cow will produce as much fluid as 
half-a-dozen Africans. The deficiency of milk in 
pastoral lands often excites the traveller's wonder : 
at times, after the herds have calved, he drinks it 
gratis by pailsf ul ; during the rest of the year he 
cannot buy a drop even for medicine. Most 
tribes, moreover, have some uncomfortable super- 
stitions about it — one will not draw it before night- 
fall, another will not tamely stand by and see it 
heated. Moreover, no pastoral people that I have 
ever seen drink it fresh : they prefer to sour it 
artificially, instead of trusting to their gastric 
juices; and they are right. It is like the Cuisinier or 



THE WASUMBARA. 



233 



rather the Cordon bleue, who \'icariously does part 
of man's digestion, whereas ' Cook ' leaves all to 
a certain ill-used viscus. I presume that climate 
is the reason why the Dahi of India, the La- 
han of Arabia, has not been introduced into Eng- 
land, where curds and whey are still eaten. 
Usumbara produces an abundance of tobacco, 
whose flavour is considered superior to the other 
growths of the mainland : it is therefore pounded 
to thin round cakes, neatly packed in banana- 
leaves, and exported to Zanzibar. TTith all their 
advantages, the Wasumbara are yet a moody, mel- 
ancholy brood, a timid, dismal, and ignoble race, as 
indeed are for the most part those barbarians who 
have exchanged pastoral for agricultural life. 
Perhaps these children of the mist have too much 
mist, and thev certainlv have not learned the art 
of def endinsr themselves asrainst their raw mount- 
ain air. In hot climates beware of the cold, and 
vice versa. 

On Monday, February 16, we took leave of, 
and were formally dismissed by. Sultan Kimwere. 
The old man was mortified that our rambles over 
his hills had not produced a plant of sovereign 
virtue against the last evil but one of human life. 
He had long expected a white Mganga, and now 
two had visited him, and were about to depart 



234 



GRACELESS MAMBA. 



i 
I 

i 



without an attempt to restore his youth. I felt 
sad to see the wistful lingering look with which 
he accompanied his Kua-heri — farewell (a tout 
jamais !) But his case was far beyond my skill. 

We set out at 7 a.m. on the next day with in- 
finite trouble. The three porters whom we had 
engaged had run away, characteristically futile, 
without even claiming their hire, and none of 
Sultan Kimwere's men had the stomach to face 
the redoubtable Wazegura. The Ealoch had 
gorged themselves faint with beef, and the hide, 
the horns, and huge coUops of raw meat were 
added to the slaves' loads. We descended the 
Pass in a Scotch mist and drizzle, veiling every 
object from view, and it deepened into a large- 
dropped shower upon the fetid lowlands. The 
effect of exchanging 4000 for 1000 feet was any- 
thing but pleasant, and we at once felt shorn of 
half our strength. That night we slept at Pas- 
imga ; the next at Msiki Mguru, and the third, 
after marching 17 miles, our greatest distance, at 
Kohode. Here the graceless Mamba allowed us 
to be punted over the deep sullen stream by a 
slave upon a bundle of cocoa fronds, to the im- 
minent peril of our chronometers. 

We now resolved to follow the river-course 
downwards, and to ascertain by inspection if the 



THE PARATOXXERRE. 



235 



account of its falls and rapids had been exagger- 
ated. At daTVTL Wazira came from our party, who 
had halted on the other side of the river, and 
warned iis that it was time to march, jret 9 a. m. 
had sped before the rugged line began to stretch 
over the plain. Onr Baloch declared the rate of 
walking excessive, and Hamdan, who represented 
' Master Shoetie, the great traveller,' asserted that 
he had twice visited the Lake Eegions of the far 
interior, but that he had never seen such hard- 
ships in his dreams. 

The route lay along the alluvial flat before 
travelled over : ia stead, however, of tiu-ning to- 
wards the thinlv-forested waste to the north, we 
hugged the Kuf u river's left bank, and presently 
we entered familiar land, broken red groimd, 
rough Tvith stones and thorns. Wazira declared 
his life forfeited if seen by a Mzegura : with some 
trouble, however, we coaxed him into coiurage, 
and we presently joined on the way a small painty 
bound for Panga-ni. At 1 p.m. we halted to bathe 
and drink, as it would be some time before we 
should again sight the winding stream. During 
the storm of thunder and lightning which ensued, 
I observed that our savage companions, like the 
Thracians of Herodotus and the Bhils and Kulis 
(Coolies) of modem India, shot their iron-tipped 



236 



KIRANGA. 



\ 
I 



arrows in the air. Such, perhaps, is the earliest pa- 
ratonnerre, preserved traditionally from ages long 
forgotten by man, until the time when Eranklin 
taught him to disarm the artillery of heaven. 
Through splashing rain and gusty, numbing wind, 
wliich made the slaves whimper, we threaded by 
a goat-path the dripping jungle, and we found 
ourselves, about 4 p.m., opposite Kiranga, a large 
village of Wazegura, on the right bank of the 
river. The people turned out with bows and 
muskets to feast their eyes : all, however, were 
civil, and readily gave cocoas in exchange for 
tobacco. 

Here the Rufu is a strong stream, flowing 
rapidly between high curtains of trees and under- 
wood, and entering a rocky trough. The hill- 
roots projected by Mount Tongwe are cut through 
by the course, and the narrow ledges on both 
banks form the vilest footpaths. After leaving 
Kiranga, we found the track slippery with ooze 
and mire, sprinkled with troublesome thorn-trees, 
and overgrown with sedgy spear and tiger grass. 
The air was damp and oppressive, 'heavy ' (light) 
with steamy moisture; the clouds seemed to 
settle upon earth, and the decayed vegetation ex- 
haled a feverish fetor. As we advanced, the roar of 
the swollen river told of rapids, whilst an occa- 



KIZUNGU. 



237 



sional glimpse through its wall of verdure showed 
a rufous surface flecked with white foam. Mass- 
ive nimbi purpled the western skies, and we 
began to inquire somewhat anxiously of A^'azira if 
any settlement was at hand. 

About sunset, after marching 15 miles, we 
suddenly saw tall cocoas, the ' Travellers' Joy ' 
in these lands, wavino; their f eatherv crests as^ainst 
the blue eastern firmament. The tree inhabits 
chiefly the coralline lowlands along the coast, 
but upon the line of the Panga-ni it bears fruit at 
least 30 miles from the sea, and whenever it is 
found distant from the stream the natives deter- 
mine water to be near. Presentlv crossinsr an arm 
of the river bv a Ions: wooden brido:e made 
ricketv for readv defence, we entered with a 
flock of homeward-bound goats, Eazungu,^ an 
island- settlement of Wazegura. The Headmen 
assembled to receive us with some ceremonv, 
cleared a hut of its inmates, placed cartels upon 
the ground outside, and seated us ringed round by 
a noisy crowd for the usual palaver. 

This village being upon the frontier and ex- 
cited by wars and rumours of wars, had a bad 

* It is mentioned by Dr Krapf as ever having been occu- 
pied by the Portuguese. Mr Cooley (Inner Africa, etc., p. 31) 
modestly writes.' Kisungo, more probably Kisonga.' 



238 



KIZUNGU. 



name, and suggested treachery to the Baloch. 
My companion and I fired our revolvers into 
tree-trunks, and ostentatiously reloaded them for 
the public benefit. The sensation was such that 
we seized the opportunity of offering money for rice 
and ghi : no provision, however, was procurable. 
Our escort went to bed supperless; Hamdan curs- 
ing this Safar Khdis, Anglic^ rotten journey ; 
pretty Rahmat weeping over his twisted mus- 
tachios, and Sha'aban smoking like the chimney 
of a Hammam. Murad Ali had remained at Msiki 
Mguru to buy a slave without our knowledge. 
No novice in such matters, he had yet neglected 
to tie the chattel's thumbs together, and on the 
evening after the sale he had the exquisite 
misery to see his dollars bolting at a pace which 
baffled pursuit. We should have fared meagerly 
had not one of the elders brought furtively after 
dark a handful of red rice and an elderly hen : 
this pro vaunt was easily despatched by these 
hungry men, of whom one was a Portuguese 
' cook-boy.' Then placing our weapons handy, 
we were soon lulled to sleep, despite smoke, wet 
beds, chirping crickets, and other plagues, by 
the blustering wind, and by the continuous 
pattering of rain. 

About sunrise on Priday, Eebruary 20, we 



- :.Tt 

- USA 




FALLS OF THE FANGA-NI IlIVEIl. 



THE CATARACT. 



239 



were aroused by the guide, and after various de- 
lays \Ye found ourselves ' on the tramp ' at 7 a.m. 
This country traversed was the reflection of what 
we had passed through. Hills girt the river on 
both sides, .with black soil in the lower and red 
clay in the upper levels, whilst the path was a 
mere line foot-worn over rolling ground and 
thicketty torrent - beds, and through thorny 
jungle and tall succulent tiger-grass. 

At 9 A. M. we stood upon a distant eminence 
to view the Palls of the Panga-ni, of which we 
had read a hearsay description in the pages of Lt 
Boteler. It somewhat suggested the Tore Cascade 
of guide-books. The stream, swiftly emerging 
from a dense dark growth of tropical jungle, hurls 
itself in three separate sheets, fringed with flashing 
foam, down a rugged wall of brown rock. The 
fall is broken by a midway ledge, whence a second 
leap precipitates the waters into a lower basin of 
mist-veiled stone, arched over by a fog-rainbow, 
the segment of a circle painted with faint pris- 
matic hues. The spectacle must be grander 
during the wet season, when the river, forming a 
single horseshoe, acquires volume and momentum 
enough to clear the step that splits the now 
shrunken supply ; in fact, 

' When copious rains have magnified the stream 
Into a loud and white-robed waterfall.' 



240 



THE CATARACT. 



Of all natural objects the cataract most requires 
that first element of sublimity — size. Yet, as it 
is, the Panga-ni Ealls, with the white spray and 
light mist, set off by a background of black jungle 
and by a framework of slaty rain-cloud, offer a 
picture sufficiently effective to save us from dis- 
appointment. 

As we jogged onwards the heat became in- 
tense. The clouds lay close upon the cool mount- 
ain-tops : there it was winter, but the fount of 
life, the Soter Kosmou, the grand differentiator 
between Africa and Greenland, whose rays shot 
stingingly through the well-washed air, still 
parched the summer plains. At 10 a. m. our 
Baloch, clean worn-out by famine and fatigue, 
threw themselves upon the bank of a broad deep 
Nullah, in whose rushy and jungly bed a little 
Avater still lingered. Wild bees had hived in the 
tree-trunks, but none of us coveted the fate of 
plundering bears. The bush was rich in the 
'Melon of Abu Jahl' (Coloquintida),and the slaves 
chewed the dried pulp of the calabash gourd. 
Ilalf-an-hour's rest, a cocoa-nut each, a pipe, and 
above all things the spes finis, somewhat restored 
our vigour. We resumed the march over a roll- 
ing Avaste of thin green grass, enlivened by occa- 
sional glimpses of the river, whose very aspect 



RETURX TO PAXGA-XL 241 

tempered the optic nerves and cooled the brain. 
Villages became numerous as we advanced, far 
distancing our Baloch, and at 3 p.m., after 14j 
miles, we sighted the snake-fence and the pent- 
houses of friendly Chogwe. The Jemadar and 
his garrison received us with all the honours of 
travel, and marvelled at our speedy return from 
Fuga, where, as at Harar, a visitor can never 
reckon upon prompt dismissal. Sultan Kimwere 
has detained Arab and other travellers a whole 
fortnight before his Mganga would fix upon a fit 
time for audience. 

Our feet were cut by hard boots and shoes, 
that had more than once been wetted and dried ; 
and wherever there was chafing or burning, we 
had lost ' leather ' softened by constant perspira- 
tion. A few days of rest and simple remedies, 
white of egg and flour-powdering, removed these 
small inconveniences. Our first move was to 
Panga-ni, where Said bin Salim, who had watched 
his charge with the fidelity of a shepherd's dog, 
received us with joyous demonstrations. The 
Portuguese lad who accompanied us escaped 
with a few sick headaches, and we were happy to 
find his confrere free from African fever. After 
spending a day upon the seaboard, we returned, 
provided with munitions de bouche and other 

VOL. II. 16 



242 



THE HIPPOPOTAMUS. 



necessaries, to Chogwe. Here we paid the bill — 
§20 to the Jemadar in consideration of his two 
slaves ; $5 a piece to the three hardworking por- 
tion of our Baloch, and to the drones, old Sha'ahan 
and tluB lady like Eahmat, $4 and §3 respectively. 
Tlien, as the vessel in which we were to cruise 
southward was not expected from Zanzibar before 
the beginning of March, and we had a week to 
spare, it was resolved to try a fall Behemoth. 

The hippopotamus, called by the Wasawahili 
Kiboko and IMvo, and by the Arabs Bakar elKlior, 
' the creek-bullock,' resembles a mammoth pig, 
with an equine head, rather than a horse or a cow. 
Like the mangrove, he loves the rivers and inlets 
where fresh water mingles with the briny tide, 
and, as on this coast he has been little molested, 
he is everywhere to be met with. Ju the Bights 
of Benin and Biafra, during three years' wander- 
ings, I sighted but a single sj)eciin(Mi, and that 
only for a minute. When tlir night falls he 
Avriggles up one* of tlie many runs on the river 
bank, and wanders far to graz(* upon fat rich grass 
and to plunder grain plantations, where, like th(^ 
elephant and the hog, he does much more damage 
than is lu'cessary. At dawn he exchanges the 
dangerous open for shelter in the de(^p pools — the 
Khund of India— which as here, for instance, sue- 



THE HIPPOPOTAMUS. 



243 



ceed one another in the stream-bed like the beads 
of a chaplet, and the place which he prefers is 
called by the natives his 'house.' In the presence 
of man he remains at home, fearing to expose his 
person while passing over the shallow covering of 
the sand-ridges which divide the hollows. When 
undisturbed he may be seen plunging porpoise- 
like against the stream, basking where the water 
is warm and not deep, dozing upon the soft miry 
bank, or sheltering himself under the luxuriant 
rhizophorae in groups and singly, the heavy box- 
head resting upon a friend's broad stern. On 
terra firma he is easily killed by the puny arrow 
and by the tripping-trap with its spike-drop : in 
the water he is difficult to shoot, and unless har- 
pooned he is scarcely to be bagged. Thoroughly 
startled, he exposes above the surface only his 
eyes and sloping brow ; after a shot he will re- 
main below for hours, raising nothing but a 
nostril to supply himself with air, and slipping 
down the moment he sights his foe. Receiving 
the death -wound, he sinks, and, according to the 
people, he clings to the bottom : he reappears 
only when blown up by incipient decomposition, 
and unless scouts are stationed, the body will 
rarelv be found. The Arabs and Baloch declare 
that a trifling wound eventually proves fatal to 



244 'ROGUES' AND ' MAN-EATERS: 



the unwieldy form, — the water enters it, and the 
animal cannot leave the stream to feed. All 
Easterns, however, joining issue with the homoeo- 
pathists, dread applying water to a wound, and 
the Brazilian Tupys used to cure their hurts by 
toasting them and by extracting the moisture 
before the fire. The people of Mafiyah secure 
him, I am told, by planting upright a gag of 
sharpened and hardened stick in his jaws when 
opened wide for attack : this improbable tale is 
also told concerninor the natives of Kalvbia and 
the Maidan Arabs of Assyria and their lions. 
The cow is timid unless driven beyond endurance 
or grossly insulted in the person of her calf : 
the bulls arc more pugnacious, especially those 
who, expelled by the herd, live in solitary dudgeon. 
The ' rogue ' — generally derived from the Ilindo- 
stani ' rogi,' sick or sorry — is found amongst 
hippopotami, elk, deer, and other graminivors 
as well as amongst elephants, lions, tigers, and 
the larger carnivors. The ' rogU(^ ' hippopotamus 
is an old male no longer able to hold his own 
against the young adults, who naturally walk off 
with his harem, and leave him in the surliest 
state of widowerhood. The man-eating lion is 
mostly some decrepit beast that finds it easier for 
his stiff muscles and worn tusks to pull down a 



THE HUXT. 



245 



human biped than a wild bull or an antelope. It 
was probably a rogue hippopotamus that caused 
the death of Menes, ancient king, and the modern 
Africans from Abyssinia southwards still lose 
many a life. Captain Owen's officers when 
ascending these streams had their boats torn by 
Behemoth's hard teeth. In the Panga-ni river 
' Sultan Mamba,' a tyrant of the waters, thus 
dubbed by the Baloch in honour of their friend 
the Kohode chief, delighted to upset canoes in 
rude waggishness, and once broke a negro's leg. 
Eor this reason men were careful to skirt the 
banks by day when he was supposed to be in 
mid-stream, and to avoid them during the dark 
hours when he was scrambling up and down the 
sides. During a subsequent battue off Wale 
Point we had two accidents in one day ; a dug- 
out was smashed by a blow with the Kiboko's 
forehand, and the corvette's gig, suddenly uplifted 
upon the tusk-points, showed a pair of corre- 
sponding holes in her bottom. 

Behold us now, O brother in St Hubert ! mer- 
rily dropping down stream in a monoxyle some 
40 feet long, at early dawn, when wild beasts are 
hungriest and tamest. The Jemadar and his 
brother, cloaked in scarlet and armed with their 
slow matchlocks, sit in the stern ; the polers, 



246 



THE HUNT. 



directed by Sidi Eomoay, who is great in matters 
of venerie, occupy tlie centre, and we take up 
our station in tlie bows. The battery consists of 
a shot-gun for experiments, a Colt's rifle, and 
two ' smashers/ each carrying a 4 oz. ball of zinc- 
hardened lead. The mise en scene is perfect : the 
bright flush of morning, the cool, clear air, the 
river, with its broad breast swelling between two 
rows of tall luxuriant trees, and, protruding from 
the mirrory surface, the black box-heads, flanked 
with small pointed ears, and not a little resem- 
bling the knight in old chessmen. When swim- 
ming up stream the beasts threw up the hind 
legs, and plunged with the action of a porpoise. 
As we approached them the boatmen indulged in 
loud and ribald vituperations, such as * M'ana 
Marira,' big belly ! ' Hana 'mkia,' O tailless 
one ! and ' Limundi,' which was not explained. 
These insults caused them to raise their crests in 
angry curiosity, and to expose their arched necks 
of polished black, shining with the trickling rills, 
which caught like quicksilver the reflection of 
the sun. 

My companion, a man of speculative turn, 
experiments upon the nearest optics with buck- 
shot and two barrels of grape, for which we had 
a mould. The eyes, however, are obliquely 



GLORIOUS GORDON GUMMING. 



plaoad ; tlie charge scatters, and the brute, un- 
hurt, slips down like a seal. This will make the 
herd wary. Vexed by the poor result of our 
trial, we pole up the rippling and swirling sur- 
face that shows the enemy to be swimming under 
water towards the further end of a deep pool. 
Our guns are at our shoulders ; we know that, 
after a w^eary time, he must rise and breathe. 
As the smooth water undulates, swells, and 
breaks a way for the large square head, eight 
ounces of lead fly in the right direction. There 
is a splash, a struggle; the surface foams, and 
Behemoth, with open mouth like a butcher's 
stall, and bleeding like a gutter-spout, plunges 
above the surface. Wounded in the cerebellum, 
he cannot swim straight, he cannot defend him- 
self. I thought how easy it would have been, 
but for the crocodiles, to have done with him as 
the late Gordon Gumming did, and related amidst 
universal incredulity. In such matters the reader 
unconsciously asks himself ' Could I ? ' A nega- 
tive is instinctively suggested, and hence his be- 
lief revolts at the story — spernit et odit. But all 
men cannot — in fact, very few men can — boast 
the eye, the nerve, and muscle of glorious Gordon 
Gumming. 

Beturning to Kiboke, the Baloch are excited, 



248 



THE BIG BAG. 



and as the game rises again, matchlocks bang 
dangerously as pop -guns. Presently the Jemadar, 
having expended three bullets — a serious consid- 
eration with your Oriental pot-hunter — retires 
from the contest, as we knew he would, recom- 
mending the beasts to us. Bombay punches on 
the boatmen, who complain that a dollar a day 
does not justify their facing death. At last a 
coup de grace, speeding through the ear, finds out 
the small brain ; the brute sinks, fresh gore pur- 
j)les the surface, and bright bubbles seethe up 
from the bottom. Hippo, has departed this life : 
we wait patiently for his reappearance, but he 
reappears not. At length Bombay's sharp eye 
detects a dark object some hundred yards down 
stream : we make for it, and find our ' bag ' 
brought up in a shallow by a spit of sand, and 
already in process of being ogled by a large fish- 
hawk. The fish-hawk pays the penalty of impu- 
dence. We tow the big defunct to the bank, 
and deliver it to a little knot of savages, who 
have flocked down to the stream with mouths 
watering at the prospect of creek-bullock beef. 
The meat is lawful to Moslems of the Shafei 
school ; others reject it, as, being amphibious, it 
is impure. In Abyssinia they commonly eat it ; 
here they do not. The insuff*erable toughness 



THE BABY HIPPO. 



249 



and coarseness, to say nothing of the musky 
bouquet, do not recommend it to Europeans. 
The Washenzi, however, Trill feast royally, grease 
themselves Avith the diipping, and at sundown 
bring us, according to agreement, the tusks, 
teeth, and skull, picked clean as a whistle is said 
to be. The teeth, especially of young animals, 
being delicately white and conical, make the 
prettiest handles for knives. 

The herd no longer rises ; the beasts fear this 
hulking craft. We must try some other plan. 
]\Iy companion, accompanied by Bombay, who 
strips to paddle, in token of warm work expected, 
shifts to a small canoe, lashes fast his shooting 
tackle to the seat, in case of an upset, and whilst 
I occupy one end of the ' house,' makes for the 
other. Whenever a head appears an inch above 
water, a heavy bullet ' puds ' into or near it ; 
crimson patches marble the stream ; some die 
and disappear, others plunge in crippled state ; 
while others, disabled from diving by holes drilled 
through their snouts, splash and scurry about 
with curious snorts, caused by the breath passing 
through the wounds. At last the small canoe 
ventures upon another experiment. A baby 
hippo., with the naivete natural to his age, up- 
rears his crest, doubtless despite the maternal 



250 



THE BABY HIPPO. 



Avarning : ofT flies the crown of the little kid's 
head. The bereaved mother rises for an instant, 
viciously regards the infanticide, who is quietly 
loading, snorts a parent's curse, and dives as the 
cap is being adjusted. Presently a bump, a shock, 
and a heave, and the bows of the barque are 
high in the air. Bombay, describing a small 
parabola, lands in frog-position upon the enraged 
brute's back. My companion steadies himself in 
the stern ; happily the Kiboko had not struck 
out with the forearm, nor torn off the gunwale 
with her mighty jaws : he sends a ball through 
her sides as, with broad dorsum hunched up and 
hogged, like an angry cat, she advances for a 
second bout. Bombay scrambles into the mo- 
noxyle, and nothing daunted, paddles towards 
the quarry, which funks and bolts till nothing is 
visible but a long, waving line of gore. With a 
harpoon we might have secured it ; now it will 
feed, with ' speck ' and musky meat, the VVaslienzi 
or the crocodiles. 

Our most artful dodge was, however, to come. 
The Baloch have ceased firing, confessing their 
matchlocks to be no ' good,' but they force the 
boatmen to obey us, and they take great interest 
in the sport, as Easterns will when they see work 
well done. My companion lands with his black 



THE DODGE. 



251 



woodman carrying both smashers : they grope 
painfnlly through mangrove-thicket where para- 
sitical oysters wound the legs with their sharp 
edges, and where the deep mud and shaking hog 
admit a man to the knees. After a time, reach- 
ing a clear spot, they take up a position where the 
bush-screened bank impends the deepest water, 
and signal me to drive the herd. The latter, after 
rubbing their backs against the big canoe, rise to 
breathe ; I hoist a scarlet cloth upon a tall pole, 
and the beasts, inquisitive as kangaroos, expose 
themselves to gratify a siLly curiosity. My com- 
panion has two splendid standing shots, and the 
splashing and circling in the stream below tell the 
accuracy of his aim. The dodge was suggested by 
seeing antelope thus arrested in their flight, and 
by remembering the red whMigigs with bits of 
mirror, used in former years by the French chas- 
seur to kill hares. 

Whilst in the pursuit of the animals that were 
retiring to the other end of the pool, I saw a hole 
bursting in the stream close to the bows of the 
canoe, and a dark head of portentous dimensions 
rose with a snort, a grunt, and a spirt. Mamba ! 
Mamba ! shout the Baloch, and yet the old rogue 
disdains to flinch or fly. A cove from the Colt 
strikes him full in the front; his brain is pierced, 



252 



SULTAN MAMBA KILLED. 



he rises liigli, lie falls with a crash upon the wave, 
and all that hulking flesh cannot keep in a little 
life. Sultan Mamha has for ever disappeared 
from the home of the hippopotamus : never shall 
he hully canoe-men, never shall he hreak nigger's 
leg again. 

We soon learned the lesson that these cold- 
blooded beasts may be killed with a pistol ball, 
if hit in the right place, — under the shoulder for 
the heart, and. in the ear for the remarkably small 
brain, whose pan is strongly boxed in. Other- 
wise they carry as much lead as elephants. By 
10 A.M. we had slain six, besides wounding I know 
not how many of the animals. They might be 
netted, but the operation would not pay in a 
pecuniary sense : the ivory of small teeth, under 
4 lbs. each, is worth little. Moreover, the herds are 
apt to shift quarters after an excess of bullying, 
and are normally shy when exposed to the per- 
petual popgunning of the Baloch. Even the 
vulture is absent — a bad sign. We did not often 
return to this sport, finding the massacre mono- 
tonous, and such cynegetics little more exciting 
than pheasant shooting. 

Our first partie concluded with a bath in the 
Panga-ni, which here has natural 'bowers for 
dancing and disport,' fit for Diana and her suite: 



GAME. 



253 



in these unclassical lands they are haunted, not 
by fairies, but by monkeys. About a dwarf 
creek trees cluster on three sides of a square, 
regularly as if planted, and rope-like creepers, 
the West African tie-tie, bind together the sup- 
porting stems and hang a cm^tain to the canopy 
of imperious sylvan shade. The consumptive 
Jemadar suffered severely from the sun ; he still, 
however, showed some ardour for sport. ' A 
mixture of a lie,' says Bacon bluntly, ' doth ever 
add to pleasure.' There was abundant amuse- 
ment in the little man's grandiloquent romancing ; 
a hero and a E/Ustam he had slain his dozens ; 
men quaked — ^in far Balochistan — at the mention 
of his name ; his sword-blade never fell upon a 
body without cutting it in twain, and, 'faith, had 
he wielded it as he did his tongue, the weapon 
w^ould indeed have been deadly. At Panga-ni 
he had told us all manner of F. M. Pinto tales 
concerning the chase at Chogwe, and his pal, an 
old Mzegura woodsman, had promised us ele- 
phants, giraffes, and wild cattle. But when we 
pressed the point our guide shirked the trial ; 
his son was absent, war raged in the clan, his 
family wanted provisions : he was ever coming 
on the morrow, and — the morrow never came. 
This convinced me that the tale of game in the 



254 MARCHING. 



dry season was apocryphal. Cliogwe then offered 
few attractions, and we left the bazar on Thurs- 
day, Eeb. 26 : my companion walked to Panga-ni, 
making a route-survey, whilst the Jemadar and 
his tail escorted me in the large canoe. 

This trial trip to Euga, which covered 150 
miles in 11 days, had supplied me with a fair 
budget of experience and had drawn my atten- 
tion to an important point, namely, the difference 
between our distances and those of M, Erhardt's 
map. Whilst we placed the head-quarter village 37 
miles in direct line, and along the devious path 
74 or 75, he gave the measures respectively as 
82 and 100. Hence I was led to question all the 
distances in the remote parts : the road between 
Mombasali and Kilima-njaro had already been 
reduced from 200 to 130 miles; and, to judge from 
analogy, a little farther subtraction might be 
applied. Our longest march was only 17 miles : 
after i days' continued work the slaves were dead- 
beat ; our escort, who carried only their weapons, 
murmured loudly at our habits, and the Panga-ni 
people considered the rate of walking excessive. 
Without measuring instruments or the habit of 
correct timing, it is difficult to estimate distance. 
Some years afterwards, when ascending the Came- 
roons Mountain, I found, by taping, 11,570 feet 



THE FEVER. 



255 



to be the length of a march, which the whole 
party had set down at the lowest estimate as five 
miles. Twenty miles in a tropical sun, without 
water and over rough ground, where the step is 
shortened, will appear 40 in Europe, whilst the 
hour's halt seems hut a few minutes.^ 

For two days after returning to Panga-ni we 
abstained from taking exercise. On the third we 
walked out several miles East along the shore, 
and IN". West inland, under the hottest of suns 
and over burning ground, to explore a cavern, or 
rather a tunnel in the limestone rock of which 
the natives, who came upon it when clearing out 
a well, had circulated the most exaggerated ac- 
counts. My companion already complained of 
his last night's labour, an hour with the sextant 
upon damp sands in the chilly dew. This excur- 
sion finished the work. On entering the house 
we found Caetano, who had accompanied us to 
Euga, suffering from aches in the shoulders and 
a cold sensation creeping up the legs. Such sen- 
sations heralded the fever, a mahgnant bilious 

^ The German missionaries placed the Tanganyika Lake 
GOO direct geographical miles from the sea : I reduced the dis- 
tance to 300. This was an error. But we had been told upon 
the coast that the Sea of Unyamweziis in Unyamwezi, and the 
easternmost frontier of the latter region at Tura is distant 
290 direct geographical miles from the seaboard of Zanzibar. 



256 



HYGIENIC HINTS. 



remittent like ' General Tazo ' of Madagascar : as 
on the Niger, this ' acclimatizing fever ' usually 
appears before the 16th day. My companion was 
prostrated a few hours afterwards, and next day I 
followed their example. Valentino, who escaped 
at Panga-ni, came in for his turn at Zanzibar; 
and, as a proof that the negro enjoys no im- 
munity, Sidi Bombay suffered severely in early 
June. 

I have no doubt that had Dr Steinhaeuser 
been with us, or had we been acquainted with 
the prophylactic treatment of quinine, first de- 
veloped by the later Niger expeditions, and after- 
wards practised by myself with so much success 
on the West Coast of Africa, we should have 
escaped with a light visitation instead of danger- 
ous and almost deadly attacks. But we had also 
imprudently taxed strength and endurance to 
the utmost, before our constitutions had been 
accustomed to the climate. As a rule, the travel- 
ler in these lands should at first avoid exposure 
and fatigue beyond a certain point to the very 
best of his ability. He might as well practise 
sitting upon a coal fire as hardening himself to 
the weather — which green men have attempt- 
ed. Dr Bialloblotsky, a Polish professor who 
had begun travelling at the end of a long life 



HYGIENIC HINTS. 



257 



of sedentary study, would practise walking bare- 
headed in the Zanzibar sun : the result w^as con- 
gestion of the brain. Others have paced bare- 
footed upon an exposed terrace, with ulceration 
of the legs and temporary lameness, as the total 
results. The most successful in resisting the 
miasma are they who tempt it the least, and the 
best training for a long hungry march in these 
lands is repose with good living. Man has then 
stamina to work upon : he may exist, like the 
camel, upon his own fat. Those who fine them- 
selves down by exercise and abstinence before 
such journeys commit the error of beginning 
where they ought to end. 

We spent no happy time in the house of the 
"Wali Meriko, who, luckily for us, was still absent 
at Zanzibar. The Jemadar, seeing that we could do 
nothing, took leave, committing us to Allah and 
to Said bin Salim. The Banyans intended great 
civility ; they would sit with us for hours, asking, 
like Orientals, the silliest of questions, and think- 
ing withal that they were making themselves 
agreeable. Repose was out of the question. 
During the day gnats and flies added another 
sting to the horrors of fever : by night rats nib- 
bled our feet ; mosquitos sang their songs of 
triumph; and torturing thirst made the terrible 

VOL. II. 17 



258 



THE I EVER. 



sleeplessness yet more terrible. Our minds were 
morbidly fixed upon one point, the arrival of our 
vessel : we had no other occupation but to rise 
and gaze, and to exchange regrets as a sail hove 
in sight, drew near, and passed by. We knew 
that there would be no failure on the part of our 
thoughtful friend, who had written to promise 
us a ' Batela ' on March 1. But we doubted the 
possibility of an Arab or an Msawahili doing any- 
thing in proper time. The craft had been duly 
despatched from Zanzibar before the end of Eeb- 
ruary, but the fellows who manned her being 
men of Tumbatu, could not pass their houses un- 
visited, — they wasted a precious week, and 
they did not make Panga-ni till the evening of 
March 5. 

After sundry bitter disappointments, we had 
actually hired a Banyan's boat that had newly 
arrived, when the long-expected ' Batela ' ran 
into the river. Not a moment was to be lost. 
Said bin Salim, who had been a kind of nurse, 
superintended the embarkation of our belong- 
ings. My companion, less severely treated, was 
able to walk to the shore ; but I — alas, for man- 
liness ! — was obliged to be supported like a bed- 
ridden old woman. The Arabs were civil, and 
l)ade us a friendly farewell. The Wasawahili, 



RETURN TO ZANZIBAR. 



259 



however, audibly contrasted the present with the 
past, and drew indecorous conclusions from the 
change which a few days had worked in the man 
who bore a 24 lb. gun with a 4 ounce ball. 

All thoughts of cruising along the southern 
coast were thus at an end. Lieut. -Colonel 
Hamerton had cautioned us not to despise bilious 
remittents, and evidently we should not have 
been justified in neglecting his advice to return 
to the consulate whenever seized by sickness. 
With the dawn of Priday, March 6, we ordered the 
crew to up sail : we stood over for the island 
with a fine fresh breeze, and early in the after- 
noon we found ourselves once more within the 
pale of eastern civilization. Our excellent friend 
at once sent us to bed, where we remained for 
the best part of a week : we did not recover 
health till the end of the normal month. 



CHAPTEE IX. 

VISIT TO SA'aDANI, THE COPAL FIELD. 

Non cuivis lectori auditorique placebo : 
Lector et auditor nou milii quisque placet. 

A HEROIC treatment of quinine, l)eginning 
with 20-grain doses, and ending with two grains, 
per diem, and a long course of stomachic chiretta 
— the Kirait which the Goanese drink, flavoured 
with lime juice, every Sunday before church — 
induced a convalescence, accompanied by the 
usual unpleasant sequelae. The S. West or rainy 
monsoon, which came in like a lion, had im- 
proved my health, but it detained the Expedition 
at Zanzibar. We utilized the delay l)v buvins^ 
outfit, which for economy must be provided 
before the opening of the trading season ; by 
making arrangements for an escort, and by 



EXPEDITIONS IN 1867. 



261 



looking to the Imiidred impedimenta which ap- 
pertain to African exploration. 

Yet I was possessed by a nervous impatience 
to be up and doing. During the year of grace 
1867 it was proposed to penetrate into the Eastern 
and Central Regions from all directions. The 
Escayrac de Lauture enterprise has been already 
mentioned. Zanzibar also expected an American 
Expedition. A Major Cotheal, of New York, 
had visited the coast in his own vessel, with the 
view of pushing into the interior. Like his 
many predecessors — Captain Smee for instance 
— he failed to find the debouchure of the Denok, 
Yumbo, Gob, Gob-Aven, Juba, "Webbe Ganana, 
Govind, Dos Fuegos or Rogues^ River, which 
forms the true northern limit of continental 
Zanzibar, dividing inland the Galla from the 
Somal, and which the hydrographers have placed 

^ Denok is the Galla name of the stream, probably from 
Danesha, a townlet or encampment on the right bank of the 
stream, some three miles from the sea. Vumbo is the Kisa- 
wahili term. The Somal call it Gob, 'the junction' (hence 
the Juba of the Arabs, who cannot pronounce the letter G), 
and Gob-wen, ' the great junction,' a name also given to the 
settlement Danesha : hence the Hinduized form Govind. 
AVebbe (river) Ganana (bifurcation) is derived from a village 
high up the stream. The Portuguese called it Eio dos Fuegos 
from the number of fires, probably of fishermen : the English, 
' Rogues Eiver,' a term which might be applied to all the 
streams on this coast. 



262 



MAJOR COTHEAL. 



in S. lat. 0° 14' 30", thus nearly corresponding 
parallel with the Gaboon. But he had observed 
a discolouration of the sea, which raised his hopes 
of being able to measure and survey the myste- 
rious outlet. Despite the labours of Lieut. Chris- 
topher, there is still an abundance of work to be 
done about the embouchures and more upon the 
upper courses of the ' Nile of Makdishu ' (Webbe 
Gamana) and the Juba (Webbe Ganana) ; 
whilst the sad loss of Baron von der Decken only 
increases our curiosity about the latter stream. 
It is doubtful, even in the present day, whether 
the mouth of the Juba is dry in the rainless 
season or not. Major Cotheal's prospects were 
kept dark : it was, however, understood that the 
party would be composed of white men ac- 
customed to endure fatigue and to face danger, 
escorted by free blacks from the United States, 
and by natives of the country as guides and 
porters. All scientific researches and even exact 
observations were to be postponed, lest they 
should impede progress : this manner of explora- 
tion, which would find scant favour in English 
eyes, is evidently best fitted to open a way for the 
physicist through unexplored and possibly danger- 
ous regions. I never doubted that the Anglo- 
American, familiar with the negro race from his 



PROFESSOR WAHLBERG. 



263 



infancy, and strong in nervous temperament, 
carrying little flesh and comparatiyely abstemious, 
would be the best of African explorers, and my 
subsequent experiences on the west coast of 
Africa in the Bights of Benin and Biafra, from 
Cape Palmas to the Gaboon riyer, haye confirmed 
the belief. Major Cotheal's exploration, how- 
ever, was fated to remain in limbo. 

An expedition was also proposed at the 
Cape of Good Hope on a plan recommended by 
the lamented naturalist, Professor Wahlberg. 
Several was^orons startins^ simultaneously would 
separate upon the threshold of the trojoics, and, 
after exploring eastward and westward, would 
rendezvous at a given place, and confer upon the 
ways and means of further advance. Nothing ap- 
peared more feasible than such a prospect, and the 
brilliant success of Messrs Livingstone, Murray, 
and Oswell, then fresh in the public mind, had 
proved that intertropical Africa could be pene- 
trated with less fatigue and risk of disease from 
the Cape than from any other point. Dr "Wahl- 
berg, however, was killed by an elephant, and his 
plan was allowed to lie in nubibus. 

We left for the interior before Zanzibar 
Island was visited by the Pere Leon d'Avanchers, 
whose name has since become familiar to geo- 



264 



M. GABRIELLI BE RIVALTA, 



graphers : en revanche I met M. Gabrielli de 
E^ivalta, a capuchin of the Lyons Mission, who 
was proceeding to his head- quarters, the before 
inaccessible Kaffa country. He had lately learned 
at Kome that four or five other missioners would 
be sent to reap the unparalleled harvest reported 
by Monsignor Guglielmo Massaga, the Vicario 
Apostolico dei Gallas, who had made that place his 
home, and who had sent branch establishments to 
Enarea and Goodroo. Some 40,000 pagans had, 
it was asserted, embraced Christianity, and con- 
versions were still taking place in legions. Un- 
able to enter Africa via Masawah, on account of 
the religious excitement that burned high 
amongst the Abyssinians, Father Gabrielli re- 
solved to land at Makdishu, and to march upon 
Ganana, travelling alone and unarmed, amon gst the 
fiercest tribes of East Africa, the Gallas, and the 
Somal. The successes which have crowned the 
efforts of Catholic missioners in these eastern 
regions reflect honour upon their system, and 
cast a deep shade upon the desultory indivi- 
dualistic display of Protestant energy. On the 
West Coast of Africa, however, I found that 
both had equally and completely failed. 

At length, strength and energy returning, I 
resolved once more to visit the coast, and to col- 



QUERIES. 



265 



lect information upon certain interesting subjects, 
concerning which the Secretary of the Bombay 
Geographical Society had (Dec. 8, 1856) for- 
warded to Government the following remarks : — 
'It will be eminently interesting to know 
whether the great limestone formation, extending 
in one vast continuous band from the banks of 
the Burrumputra to those of the Tagus, and 
from which Captain Burton forwarded valuable 
specimens from the Somali country, prevails as 
far south as the Line, and to what distance it 
extends into the interior. It will be desirable to 
ascertain whether the upheaved sea-beach, such 
as that which forms the esplanade, and is the 
favourite habitat of the cocoa-nut groves around, 
prevails along the shores of xifrica, and whether, 
if so, it manifests those signs of a double depres- 
sion or upheaval which characterize it in most 

parts of the world Of the £300,000 

worth of commerce between Eastern Africa and 
Western India — the principal part being that of 
Zanzibar — gums and resin-trees form an import- 
ant part, nearly £20,000 worth being exported 
from Zanzibar. The most valuable of these are 
copal and gum Animi, the principal supplies 
being found under-ground, from which they are 
washed out by streams and torrents. Like the 



2G6 COACH-VARNISH VERSUS DISCOVERY. 



Dammer of Singapore, and some of the most im- 
portant gum resins of Australia, they may be 
regarded as semi-fossils, the produce of forests 
which have long since disappeared. . . . We 
should like to know whether the Valeria Indica, 
which produces it, still abounds as a tree ; 
as also what may have been the extent, what 
the position and circumstances of the extinct 
forests, of which it now constitutes the principal 
trace. . . . Copal has of late years become so 
scarce, so much in demand, and so dear, that 
what was formerly thrown away would probably 
be considered of value in the market ; and there 
are few of the investigations a traveller can un- 
dertake the people of England value so highly as 
those that can be turned to commercial account. 
Materially to reduce the price of coach- varnish 
would probably be considered to entitle Captain 
Burton to a larger share of the gratitude of his 
countrymen than the measurement of the eleva- 
tion of the Mountains of the Moon or the De- 
termination of the Sources of the Nile.'^ 

On May 11, accompanied by Sidi Bombay 
and by Said bin Salim, with his by no means 

^ I have reprinted the rest of tlie ])aper in my preface to a 
Memoir on the Lake Regions of Central Equatorial Afi-ica. — 
Journal Royal Geographical Society, xx. 18G0. 



CANNIBALISM. 



267 



merry men, I set out in the ' Mtope ' (the 
Mud), a small Machua manned by the slaves of 
Mr Banyan E>amji. E;unning before a fair 
wind, and ' rushed ' by an occasional raffale, we 
crossed in five hours the Manche that separates 
Zanzibar from Sa'adani, a trading port on the 
Continent, nearly parallel with the northern cape 
of the Island. The settlement is not seen till 
within the shortest distance, when the man- 
groves disclose it. The landing-place is bad ; 
if the water is out small craft must lie about 
half-a-mile from the shore; at flood-tide they 
round a small sandspit, and enter the shallow, 
rushy Khor (bay), which passes the settlement. 
Passengers then disembark in canoes. The site 
of the village is frontier-land : to the north are 
the Wazegura savages, and southward, behind 
' Utondwe,' lie the Wadoe, who are reported by 
all to have learned cannibalism during their wars 
with the Wakamba.^ I should say ' lay ' : these 

^ It has been remarked by Dr Beke (Transactions of tbe 
Royal G-eograpliical Society, vol. xvii. p. 74), that hereabouts 
is the position assigned by Ptolemy to his Anthropophagi, living 
around the Barbaric Grulf, and by El Mas'udi to the men-eating 
Zenj — a curious coincidence. I am convinced that all the ne- 
gro tribes now settled upon the East and West coasts of Inter- 
tropical Africa have migrated, or rather have gravitated, from 
the interior within a few centuries, and that the process is still 
in active operation. Whatever the Wamakua Meuschen-fresser 



268 



UTONDWE. 



Wadoe have of late years been driven away from 
their ancient seats by the Wamasai, and like the 
Waboni, they have occupied the lands on the 
north bank of the Adi or Sabaki river. The 
Wakamba, again, have been expelled, and the 
Wazeramo, a fierce and unmanageable tribe, has 
now transferred itself to the interior. The point 
or headland bounding the bay southwards, and 
giving a name to the little maritime province 
Avhose southern limit is Wliindc (Uende of M. 
Uebmann), is still known as Utondwe, and is said 
to show ruins of habitations. Thus Watondwi, 
which Mr Cooley translates ' picking-grounds,' 
i. e. places where shell-fish are gathered, w^ould 
mean the people of Utondwe. Nothing can be 
more misleading than such expressions as 'the 
kingdom of Atondo,' used by Do Couto and 
others. These royalties are mere districts ruled 
by petty headmen, of which each port-village 
has one, potent within their own bounds or 
palisades, but powerless a mile beyond them. 
They correspond with the River Kings and Hill 
Kings of Guinea, the ridiculous King Jacks and 
King Boys of the Western Coast — both degraded 

may have been, tlie Wadoe seem to have adopted cauuibalisia 
of late years, iu terrorem. So Tarik, the Arab invader of Spain, 
when fighting his way between Boetis and the Tagus, ordered 
his men to cook (but not to eat) the flesh of slain Christiana. 



SA'ABANL 



269 



by intercourse with superior races, these Avith 
Europeans, those with the Arabs. * Otondo ' is 
mentioned in the Portuguese inscription over the 
fort gate of Mombasah ; and in 1528 its Shavkh 
came to the assistance of Nuno da Cunha with 
five or six thousand black archers, probably slaves 
and savages, who are described as very agile and 
trained to war. 

Sa'adani stands upon a swampy green flat, 
defended, as are most of these places, against the 
sea, which is apparently but little below its level, 
by a high sandbank and natural dykes. From Pan- 
ga-ni, southward, the littoral suddenly falls flat, 
becoming an alluvial plain of green swamps, cut 
bv hundreds of mano^rove creeks : it is backed bv 
higher ground, the blue line seen from Zanzibar 
Island, and the habitat of the wilder races. The har- 
bours are mostly open roads or inlets, into ^ hich 
only native craft can run, whilst square-rigged 
ships must lie three miles in the ofling, and much 
exposed. The deeper water abounds in fish, and 
the tides retire 12 to 13 feet, leaving a broad 
expanse of naked mud. Constant troubles with 
neighbours have caused this port-village to be 
surrounded by a strong stockade of tree-trunks, 
and have greatly reduced its extent. The hun- 
dred huts of thatch, wattle and dab, may now 



270 



NGURU. 



contain 700 to 800 souls, including a Banyan, a 
Kasimi Arab, and a stray Baloch: a few years 
ago it could turn out 300 matchlocks. The two 
stone mosques, which the people declare to be 
ancient, are in ruins. Here the Wasawahili, who 
in a thin fringe line the whole coast, appear to be 
healthier than on the Island of Zanzibar. As usual, 
there is less rain, and the little Msika is often 
wanting. They send at all seasons foot caravans 
to Xguru — the Ngu of M. Bebmann — a hilly re- 
gion seven to eight days' march, nearly due west. 
The normal ventures are beads, cloth, and wires, 
and the returns are ivory and slaves, with smaller 
items, such as rhinoceros' horn and various hides. 
The trading parties are absent about six weeks, 
Avhen no news of them will be held good news : * 
formerly the wild Wanguru used to visit the 
coast, till deterred by Moslem 'Avanies.' The 
village exports sheep and ghi, holcus, maize, and 
especially copal. A little cotton (pamba) for 
domestic use is grown on the sandy landward 
slope of the natural dyke, about one mile from 
the sea : the shrub is allowed to run to wood. A 
few words upon cotton-growing in Zanzibar and 
East Africa generally may not be misplaced here. 

The mountains of Harar, that ancient capital 
of the Adel Empire, are a granitic mass covered 



COTTON. 



271 



with red argillaceous soil : they produce in plenty 
a fine, long-stapled, firm and heavy cotton, 
Avith peculiarly flexible and tenacious filament. 
Yarn is hand- spun by the women with two 
wooden bobbins, and the primitive loom is worked 
by both sexes : the result is a cloth, warm and 
soft as silk, which surpasses in beauty and dura- 
bility the vapid produce of our power-looms, as 
much as the perfect hand of man excels the finest 
machinery. The ' Tobe ' of Harar consists of a 
double length of 11 x 2 cubits, with a bright 
scarlet border, and the value of a good article 
even in the city is $8. The laziness of the people 
and the risks of the journey, 15 days of wild 
travel to the coast, prevent any exportation of 
made cloth, and years must elapse before the 
obstacles are removed. 

The coast of Eastern Intertropical Africa 
produces everywhere, as far as my wanderings 
extended, a small quantity of cotton now used 
only for domestic purposes. The rich ochreous 
clays and the black earths fat with decayed vegeta- 
tion, cause the neglected shrub to grow luxuriantly. 
The mountains of TJsumbara north of the Pan- 
ga-ni river are pecuHarly fitted by climate and 
geological formation for growing the shrub. I 
afterwards found it in Unyamwezi planted here 



272 



COTTON. 



and there amongst tlie hnts, and in N. lat. 4° 
Capt. Grant observed the Gossypium punctatum, 
a perennial whose produce was woven into wo- 
men's aprons. There is no reason to despair of 
producing in East Africa a cotton which might 
rival the celebrated growths of Algeria and Egypt ; 
at present, however, as Dr Livingstone's second 
Expedition proved, the conditions of export are 
far inferior to those of Abeokuta and of Accra a 
whole generation ago. 

Said bin Salim having formerly been Governor 
of Sa'adani, we were received by the crowd with 
all the honours. The Chief Bori was absent, visit- 
ing Kipoml)ui, a village lying a few miles north : 
he was preparing to fight one Abdullah Makita, a 
Msegeju chief living near Tanga, and his intimate 
relation s with Muigni Khatib of Usumbara would 
allow him free passage along the coast. He is 
famed through all the country-side for a mighty 
soul contained in a little body, and for a princely 
generosity which fills his house with hungry 
feeders. At present he is on bad terms with his 
brother Mohammed, Chief of Urumwi, a settle- 
ment three hours to the south, and the latter lately 
burned down Sa'adani. Here when a Diwan is 
poor he has only to attack a wealthy neighbour, 
drive off a hundred head of slaves, and send to 



BORI THE CHIEF. 



273 



market those not wanted as home-hands — this 
eternal state of feud of course greatly demoralizes 
the people. 

One of Bori's many cousins led us to the 
' Government House/ which was surrounded 
with a wall of stone and lime : he found lodgings 
for us in a large hut and a hroad verandah ; after 
some delay we were fed with dates and coffee, 
with rice and cream pressed from pounded cocoa- 
nut meat, and with fowls and mutton, the victim 
being a dun-coloured sheep with a long fat tail, 
very unlike the Somali breed. In the evening 
there was a Ngoma Khu, the normal dance of 
honour, preluded by the loud singing of the 
women inside the house, and by the warning 
sound of three drums. The corps de ballet, a dozen 
strong, young and old, then defiled before us. 
Their heads were clean shaven, or half grown, or 
covered with short stiff curls intensely black and 
forming the least grotesque of African coiffures : 
the dress was an indigo-dyed stuff with large red 
stripes and border extending to the feet, and 
round the bosom a white cloth or some coloured 
cotton contrasted with the blue. Presently the 
ballerinas formed line and divided into two parties, 
facing inwards ; the performance consisted of 
trampling and twirling with heads inclined on 

VOL. II. 18 



274 



THE DANCE. 



one side, and eyes modestly fixed upon the ground, 
whilst palms were kneaded as if washing 

' — with invisible soap, 
In imperceptible water.' 

A passing sail drew off all the spectators as 
though they had been Cornish wreckers in the olden 
times, who had successfully fastened their lantern 
to a bullock's horns. The most interesting of the 
crowd were the sylvan men in skin aprons stain- 
ed with Mimosa-bark : their widely opened mouths 
proved that curiosity was reciprocal. Some of 
the younger girls had the beauty of negrodom, 
and none appeared to be b^gueules : here the 
people pass all the time not given to trade in 
love-making and intrigue. As in the Bombay of 
1857, damages have been made cheap and feasible 
for the co-respondent : an affair with a Diwan's 
wife costs five slaves, with a ' common person ' 
one slave, with the chattel of another man five to 
six cloths, and so on. 

The day after our arrival was a forced halt, the 
copal-diggers had set out in another direction be- 
fore dawn, and no donkey-saddle was to be found : 
the next, however, was more propitious. Led 
by Mdnji, the Akida'ao, Mtu-Mkuba, Mukaddam, 
or headman of the gang, we walked west over 
an alluvial plain of blue earth, veiled with white 



COPAL, 



275 



sand, a narrow path threading the dwarf planta- 
tions of maize and manioc, of cucumber, pulse 
(Lobiya), and the castor plant groY\^ing every- 
where wild. Crossing, after some 200 yards, a 
sandy Nullah, which supplies sweet water, we 
came to a rank and reeking, a thorny and cloth- 
tearing vegetation, and to thick, coarse spear- 
grass, burned down in the dry weather: this 
is the home of the spur-fowl, the Kudu, and 
other antelopes. Three miles (by pedometer) 
of damp trudging, a shower having fallen last 
night, placed us before the first Msandariisi,^ or 
copal tree (Hymenoea verrucosa. Boivin). It was 
growing in a thicket upon a flat covered with 
Mimosas, Hyphoenas, and various palms, the 
cocoa being absent. The specimen, though 
young, was some 30 feet tall, and measured 
about a yard in girth : it was not in flower nor in 
fruit ; the latter, according to the people, is a 
berry like a grain of Muhindi (maize). Climb- 

^ From the Arab Saudarus, which their pharmacopoeia 
applies to the transparent resin Sandaraca or Sandaraeh. Our 
copal is a corruption of the Mexican Kopali — any gum. It is 
called anime or animi in the London market, and by the 
workman French varnish. The copals of Mexico, of New 
Zealand (popularly termed Cowace copal), and of the AVest 
African coast, are inferior kinds. The ' Damar,' or gum found 
about Cape Delgado, floats in water, and may be unripe copal 
washed out by the wet season. 



276 



THE COPAL-TREE. 



ing up the straight, smooth trunk to secure 
specimens of wood, bark, and leaf, I was pitilessly 
assaulted by the Maji-Moto (boiling water), a 
long ginger-coloured and semi-transparent ant, 
whose every bite drew blood. Prom the trunk and 
on the ground I picked up specimens of the gum 
which exudes from the bole and boughs when 
injured by elephants, or other causes. This is 
the Chakazi, raw copal, whence the local ' Jack- 
ass copal:' it has rarely any ' gooseskin,' and it 
floats, whilst the older formation sinks, in water. 
Valueless to us, it produces the magnificent 
varnishes of China and Japan. In a paper lately 
read before the Linnsean Society, my friend Dr 
Eark, H. B. M.'s Acting Consul at Zanzibar, de- 
clared that the fossil resin when first dug up shows 
no trace of the characteristic ' goose-skin,' wliich 
appears only when the surface is cleaned by 
brushing. I believe that this phenomenon is 
shown simply by removing the sand which fills 
up the interstices. But it is hard to make any- 
thing of Captain Grant's statement — ' the true 
copal-gum tree is a climber, which ascends to a 
great height among the forest trees, and finally 
becomes completely detached from the original 
root, when the copal exudes from the extremities 
of these detached roots.' He must allude, not to 



COPAL DIGGINGS. 



277 



the well-known ^^Isandariisi (mentioned by M. 
Guillain, i. 24, ' le M'sandarouss est un bois dur 
et resineux, qui donne aussi des pieces de 
mature), but to some other and unknown genus. 

A fourth mile of gradual rise brought us to 
a distinctly- defined sea-beach, swelling about 
100 feet above water, and dimly showing Zanzi- 
bar Island to the S. East. The material was 
sand with a slight admixture of vegetable hu 
mus : the ridge top was crowned with luxuriant 
thicket, and a line of water-washed quartz 
pebbles defined the flank. I afterwards found 
the same at Muhonyera in valley of the Kinga-ni 
river, where the pebbles strewed the northern 
slope of the hillock upon which we were en- 
camped. Captain Speke (Journal, &c., chap, ii.) 
inspected it on his second journey at the desire 
of the Royal Geographical Society, to see if it 
gave indications of a ' raised sea-beach,' and came 
to the conclusion that ' no mind but one prone 
to discoverino? sea-beaches in the most unlikelv 
places could have supposed for a moment that 
one existed here.' But did he know what a 
raised sea-beach was, even had he seen it ? He 
adds, ' there are no pebbles ; ' my only reply is 
that I picked up specimens, and I find in my 
Pie Id Book, now deposited with the Royal Geogra- 



278 



THE RAISED SEA-BEACH. 



phical Society, 'Mulionyera' .... 'elevated sea- 
beach, lines of pink, quartzose rounded pebbles.' 

On this beach, as on the flat below, were 
frequent traces of manual labour: the tree, 
however, is not common, — only two appeared 
within half a mile. Mdnji proceeded to show 
me the digging process, which was of the 
simplest : he crowed a hole with a sharpened 
stick in the loose sand, and disclosed several bits 
of the bitumenized and semi-mineral gum. One 
of the slaves sank a pit about three feet deep : 
the earth became redder as he descended, crimson 
fibrous matter appeared, and presently the 
ground seemed to be half sand, half comminuted 
copal. There was neither blue clay nor tree-roots 
as in Zanzibar Island, nor did I find this formation 
in any of the wells or excavations examined upon 
the coast. According to the guide, the only 
subsoil is this ruddy arenaceous matter : his 
people, however, never dig lower than a man's 
waist. They use the Jembe, or little iron hoe, 
and when 'grist for the mill ' is wanted they 
form small gangs, who proceed to the 'jungle ' 
for two or three days, carrying with them the 
necessaries of life. 

The whole of this Zangian coast produces the 
copal of commerce : specimens have been brought 



THE COPAL TRADE. 



279 



to Zanzibar from the northern limits of Makdishu 
and Brava to Kilwa and Cape Delgado — by rough 
computation 800 miles. It extends, here three 
hours' march, there two to three days, into the 
interior. On the mainland it costs half-price of 
what is paid upon the Island, and the indolent 
Wasawahili of the villaores cannot be induced to 
dig whilst a handful of grain remains in the bin. 
I found it impossible to ' trace the position and 
circumstances of the extinct forests, of which 
copal constitutes the principal remains :' such an 
investigation would have entailed at least two 
months' voyaging along, and dwelling upon, the 
fever-haunted seaboard. 

I was also obliged to leave to the late secretary 
of the Bombay Geographical Society the task of 
remedying the host of evils that at present beset 
copal-digging. The first is the Commercial 
treat V of 1839, by whose tenth article H. H. the 
Sayyid engages ' not to permit the establishment 
of any monopoly or exclusive privilege of sale 
within his dominions, except in the articles of 
ivory and gum copal on that part of the East 
Coast of Africa, from the port of Tangate, situ- 
ated in about degrees of S. latitude, to the 
port of Quiloa, lying in about 7 degrees south of 
the equator.' The U. S. Commercial treaty of 



280 



THE COPAL TRADE. 



1833 contains no sucli clause, but the Prencli 
treaty, concluded in 1844, thus modifies (Art. xi.) 
the prohibition to trafiic which appears in the 
Enrfish treaty. ' But if the Ensrlish or Ameri- 
cans or any other Christian nation should carry 
goods, the Erench shall in like manner be at 
liberty to do so.' With the Arabs such matters 
are easily managed for the benefit of both parties : 
when, howeyer, European jealousies complicate 
the affair there is little hope of their being 
brought to a successful issue. 

Moreover, Europeans cannot do manual 
labour upon the Zanzibarian seaboard. Hindu- 
stanis would fear to face, not only the fever, but 
the savage. A gang of 500 negroes from Kilwa 
or Arabs from Hazramaut taught to use moder- 
ate-sized mattocks, not the child's plaything 
now in fashion, well paid and kept at regular 
work, would soon, by their own exertions and by 
example, stimulate the copal digging into live- 
liness or break up the unnatural monopoly. But 
the Sayyid's government would object to such 
occupation of its territory ; the Wasawahili 
Diwans would require propitiation ; and in view 
of desertion, it would be necessary to make speci- 
fic contracts with the chiefs of tribes, villages, 
and harbours. It is to be feared that such an 



DEPARTURE FROM SA'ADANI. 



281 



operation would not pay, commercially' speaking, 
though every hand might produce, as it has been 
calculated he can, 12 to 15 lbs. per diem. Will- 
ingly, therefore, as I would have won that high- 
est of meeds, the gratitude of my fellow-country- 
men by reducing the price of coach-varnish, I 
had fairly to confess that it was beyond my 
powers. The sole remedy is Time— perhaps an 
occasional East African expedition might be ad- 
hibited to advantage. 

As regards the limestone band, of which I 
had forwarded specimens from the Somali coun- 
try, no traces were found till after leaving the 
modern corallines and sandstones of the coast 
which possibly overlie it. Our march to the 
Usagara mountains (5000 feet high) was more 
fortunate : a fossil bulimus was picked up in 
the Western counterslope of those Eastern 
Ghauts, about 3200 feet above sea-level, and cal- 
careous nodules of weather-worn ' Kunker ' were 
remarked in more than one place. Captain Speke 
(Journal, chap, ii.) afterwards saw at Kidunda of 
Uzaramo on the left of the Kingani valley ' pi- 
solithic limestone in which marine fossils were 
observable.' 

Nothing of interest now remained for me at 
Sa'adani. Before earliest dawn, when Venus 



282 



RETURN TO ZANZIBAR. 



hung like a lamp between dark sky and darker 
earth, and before the lovely flush of morning 
had lit up the Eastern sea, we embarked, and 
enjoyed a lively sail. Whilst the mainland was 
clear, the Island of Zanzibar had hid itself in a 
mass of dark dense cloud, and presently it sent 
to meet us heavy leaden-coloured rain apparently 
solid as a stone wall. We had sundry gusts and 
dead calms, till at last a light breeze wafted us 
once more into port. 



/ 



CHAPTEE X. 



THE EAST AFRICAN EXPEDITION OF 1857 1859. 

* All truth must be ultimately salutary, and all deception 
pernicious.' — FEAifCis jErrsET. 

At length came the moment for departure — 
June 17, 1858. We had learned what we wanted 
to learn on the seaboard, whilst at Zanzibar 
Island no further information was to be pro- 
cured. The rains had ended on June 5: the 
harvest was coming on, and trading parties were 
returning to the coast — every day three or four 
boats passed outward-bound under the windows of 
the Consulate.^ Our preparations were hurriedly 

^ Mr Cooley (Geography, p. 29) informs us that the native 
porters start on their down journey ' in March or April, 
probably at the end of the heavy rains, and return in Sep- 
tember.' He thus greatly restricts the period. Of course the 



284 DEPARTURE FROM ZANZIBAR. 



made. Cogent reasons, however, compelled me 
to move quamprimum, and evidently delay, even 
for a week, might have been fatal to my project. 
Lieut. -Col, Hamerton's health rapidly declined : 
he was compelled to lead the life of a recluse, 
and his ever-increasing weakness favoured the 
cause of our ill-wishers. Local politics became 
more confused, and the succession troubles more 
imminent, whilst the Sayyid's Government, de- 
ceived by our silence during the rains into a 
belief that the Panga-ni fever had cooled our 
ardour, lost all interest in the enterprise, and 
required to be aroused from its apathy by a stiff 
reminder. 

My old friend, the late Mr James Macqueen, 
has declared that the expedition was ' organized 
upon erroneous and fallacious principles — with 
large parties of armed men, with numerous attend- 
ants, and extensive supplies.' I can reply only 
that my model was the normal coast-caravan, and 
certainly with less apparatus we should have 
made less progress. We were not, however, 
favoured by fortune ; and, as Baron Melchior de 

season varies to some extent at every part ; but, as a rule, to 
March and April add May and June, and for September read 
November and December. Dr Krapf is less incorrect (Travels, 
&c., p. 421) ; IM. Guillain is equally so (vol. iii. 374). 



PREPARATIONS. 



285 



Grimm sagely observes, ' there is nothing in 
this life ' — especially in African travel — ' but 
luck, good or bad.' The Kafilah-bashi was still 
Said bin SaKm, who, upon receiving from Lieut. - 
Col. Hamerton an advance of 8300, and the 
promise of a gold watch after return, in case of 
good conduct, at once pleaded a mortgage upon 
his plantations to the extent of §500. We were 
compelled to compound the matter for 8250, 
before he could precede us to the coast, with his 
four slave musketeers, one lad, and two girls. 
The Balocli escort was, according to popular 
rumour, picked up in the Bazar : it began with 
a dozen, and it ended with seven muskets, not 
includins^ the monocular Jemadar Mallok. 
They wanted everything imaginable, — debts to 
be paid, rice, lead, gunpowder, light matchlocks, 
$8 for an ass, and slaves to serve them. The 
Banyan Bamji supplied us with nine ruiBans, 
whose only object was to lay out their, or his, 
money as profitably as possible in slaves ; indeed, 
this seemed to be the end and aim of our whole 
native party. Upon the coast we engaged as 
porters 36 TJnyamwezi negroes, men who usually 
behave well, but who are uncommonlv readv to 
follow bad example. As the number was de- 
ficient, we supplied the place of more with some 



286 



KHAMISI WA TANI. 



30 baggage-asses, which added not a little to our 
troubles and losses. 

Lieut. -Col. Hamerton listened with pleasure 
to my suggestion that he might at once change 
air, from the close, foul, fetid town, and super- 
intend our departure from the coast. The 
Sayyid's kindness was unwearied: he came to 
bid us adieu, and manned for us, with a crew 
of 20, his own corvette, the Artemise, Captain 
Mohammed bin Khamis. The latter having been 
educated in England, where he had learned to 
observe and survey, and imbued by ' letters ' with 
the restless impulse of European civilization, had 
once proposed to the Uoyal Geographical Society 
himself to explore the Lake llegions; and had 
he been trustworthy, he might have done work 
valuable as that of Capt. 'Montgomerie's Pandits.' 
His father, Khamisi wa Tani, was the ' intelligent 
Sawahili or Mohammedan native of the Eastern 
coast of Africa,' who had so notably cajoled Mr 
Cooley. This ' mild and unassuming man's ' 
antecedents were of the worst description. Born 
at Lamu, he l)ecame headman of the drummers 
at Zanzil)ar, and afterwards a slaver, according 
to M. Guillain, who terms him ' spirituel et rus6 
coquin.' In this capacity he ' had travelled much 
on the mainland, he had visited many distant 



SHAYKH KHAMIS BIN USMAN. 



287 



parts of the East, and could converse in fourteen 
languages.' Turpilucricupidus then became Capt. 
Owen's interpreter along the Eastern coasts 
of Arabia and Africa. His voyage in 1835 to 
London, where Shaykh Khamis bin Usman at 
once became an ' African Prince,' arose not 
' for the purpose of assorting the first cargoes 
shipped direct to Zanzibar,' but from the stern 
necessity of temporarily leaving that Island with 
his head in loco, he having defrauded his master, 
the Sayyid, to the extent of $18,000. His inge- 
nuity did not fail him in our country, where his 
revelations touching the Lake Regions and the 
unknown interior were delivered and chronicled 
with a gravity which excites laughter. E;eturn- 
ing home, ' the Liar,' as he was popularly termed 
by his countrymen, received the Sayyid's pardon. 
He then became a kind of lackey and maitre 
d'hotel, factotum and Eigaro in native houses, the 
'palace ' included, when Europeans w^ere enter- 
tained. He has ever since devoted his talents 
to making himself as wealthy, and his friends as 
poor, as possible. I had been especially warned 
against him, on account of the prominent part 
which he took in spreading reports which led to the 
murder of M. Maizan, and it is not pleasant to see 
one's fellow-countrymen so notably 'humbugged.' 



288 



ADIEUX. 



We found a general rendezvous at Kaole 
Urembo, which was attended by Ladha Damha, 
Chief of the Customs, the ' 'Ifrit ' Ramji, and the 
ex-Sarhang ' General Tom :' the Messrs Oswald 
also ran over in their four-gun schooner, the 
Electric Elash. On June 26, 1857, we bade 
adieu to Lieut. -Colonel Hamerton, whose dis- 
tressing alternations of insomnia, debility, and 
irritability had been apparently increased by the . 
voyage. He dropped a tear as he said farewell, • 
and solemnly blessed us, adding that we should 
meet no more in this world, and that he quitted 
it without regret. Thus it proved. He struggled 
against his fate, but he succumbed on July 5, 
the victim of a chronic liver complaint. Various 
reports of his death reached us in the interior, 
but it was not confirmed by letter till eleven 
months afterwards. 

The work of exploring now began in real 
earnest. I have, however, no intention of in- 
flicting upon the reader a rechaufF(5 of our expe- 
dition, which has been described by me in four 
volumes,^ and of which notices have been given 

1 Tlie Lake Regions of Central Africa, 2 vols. Svo. Long- 
mans, 18G0. iMeirioir on the Lake Kegions of Central Equa- 
torial Africa, Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, 1 vol. 
No. xxxi. of 18(30. The Nile Basin, 1 vx)l. Tinsleys. London, 
18G9. 



OUR TROUBLES. 



289 



in another three,^ by Captains Speke and Grant. 
My principal object in alluding to them is to 
offer the judgment and the after-thoughts ma- 
tured by a whole decade, as well as to show what 
has been done since. The risk of this, the first 
attempt, has been stated to be nil by a man who 
never trusted himself a mile away from the 
coast, and whose tenderness for his personal 
safety has ever been more than notorious. In 
writing our adventures I was careful not to make 
a sensation of danger; but future travellers, 
warned by the fate of MM. Maizan and Roscher, 
not to speak of Lieut. Stroyan, of Baron von der 
Decken's party, nor of M. von Heuglin in the 
Somali country, and the detention of Dr Living- 
stone, will do well not to think that, when 
about to explore Central Africa, they are setting 
out upon a mere promenade. The repeated com- 
plaints respecting our petty troubles, which to 
readers appeared exaggerated, were true to my 
feeling at the time. The death of Sayyid Said 

1 Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the jS'ile. 
Blackwood, 1863. AVhat led to the Discovery of the Source of 
the Xile. Blackwood, 1864. A Walk across Africa, by Capt. 
Grant. Blackwood, 1861. The papers inform me that Cap- 
tain now Col. Grant, C. B., is engaged upon a botanical work 
which will illustrate the valuable collection brought home 
by him in 1863. 

VOL. II. 19 



290 



OUR PARTY. 



had been our first blow; the second was the 
non-arrival of Dr Steinhaeuser ; and the third 
was the loss of our excellent friend Lieut. -Col. 
Hamerton, whose presence at head- quarters 
would have forwarded our views in various ways. 
I have preserved copies of letters written to Ban- 
yans and others, who, after fair promises, com- 
pletely neglected us. M. Ladislaus Cocliet and 
Capt. Mansfield did their best ; but as we had 
not taken counsel with them before departure, 
their efforts were, of course, limited. And the 
cholera which, unknown to us, had fallen upon 
the Island, decimating its population, naturally 
enough prevented the sufferers from bestowing 
attention upon a distant enterprise. The neglect, 
however, told upon our escort, and to manage 
them would have taxed the wisdom of Solomon 
and the patience of Job. The monoculous Je- 
madar, shortly after our return, persuaded Baron 
von der Decken to appoint him chief of his party 
when en route from Kilwa to the Nyassa or 
Southern Lake : as might be expected, that ex- 
pedition did not reach half way. Concerning 
the ' Sons of llamji ' I find amongst my papers 
the following memo. : 



THE SLAVES. 



291 



* Msene district, Jan. 14, 1858. 

' To Sheth Eamji, 

' The full term for wliicli lie engaged the eight 
slaves, Kidogo, Jako, Mbaruk, Waledi, Mboni, 
Muhinna, Buyuni, and Hayja, having now ex- 
pired, we give them their dismissal. From the 
commencement of the march their insolence of 
manner and their independence of action have 
been so troublesome to us, and so disastrous to 
our progress, that we feel no compunction in 
thus summarily dismissing them. 

(Signed) ' Captains Burton & Speke.' 

Tinder different circumstances we should have 
been spared the hardship and suffering of all 
'up-hill work,' of labouring against the stream 
of events. We might then easily have returned 
via Egypt to Europe, as I firmly intended, and 
as my companion — aided by the experience of the 
past, and travelling under the most favourable 
auspices — was able to do on his second expe- 
dition. Once thoroughly laid open, no African 
road is difficult, unless temporary obstacles, such 
as famines or bandit raids, oppose progress, and 
the hard crust of the coast being broken, the 
interior offers comparatively few obstacles. But, 



292 



BEATEN VERSUS UNBEATEN PATH. 



I repeat, in wayfaring, as in warfare, opportunity 
is everything : better an ounce of fortune's 
favours than a ton of genius or merit. 

We followed the Arab line of traffic, first laid 
open to Lake Tanganyika by Sayf bin Said el 
Muameri, about 1825. The existence of a beaten 
path in Africa has its advantages and its disad- 
vantas^es. The natives are accustomed to tra- 
vellers ; they no longer perpetually attribute to 
them supernatural and pernicious powers, nor do 
they, except amongst the worst tribes, expect 
every manner of evil to follow the portent : it 
is not difficult to engage hands, nor is it im- 
possible to collect information concerning regions 
which cannot be visited. At the same time, con- 
tact with the slave-dealer has increased cupidity 
and has diminished hospitality : the African 
loses all sense of savage honour, without learn- 
ing to replace it by commercial honesty, and all 
his ingenuity is devoted to the contrivance and 
the carrying out of ' avanies.' But where, on the 
other hand, the explorer must hew his own way 
— such was the case with Paul du Chaillu from 
the Gaboon region, and with myself up the Congo 
river — and where there is no prescriptive right 
of transit even for pay, the adventure waxes far 
more difficult and dangerous, llcre we sec the 



THE NEGRO CHIEFS. 



293 



African at liome, an unmitigated savage, un- 
modified by acquaintance Tvdth the outer world, 
dwelling in the presence of his brethren, and rich 
in all the contrarieties of the racial character. 
His suspicions and his desires are at once aroused. 
His horror of new thinsrs strus-o-les with his wish 
to make the most of them ; he has no precedent 
for his demands, and consequently he has no 
sense of their absurdity. A caravan is to him a 
' Doummoulaf ong,' or thing sent to be eaten, as 
Mungo Park's second expedition was called. A 
Portuguese officer has been asked §120 by the 
TTamakiia for permission to visit a hill behind 
Mozambique, distant some 25 miles from the 
sea. At the Yellalah, or Eapids of the Congo 
river, I was required to pay, before leave to ad- 
vance could be given, a fee in goods which would 
have amounted to £200, And expense is not 
the main obstacle to the success of these excep- 
tional expeditions : the merest accident with a 
fire-arm may render progress impossible, and may 
endanger the lives of the whole party. 

The most troublesome features of the beaten 
path to the white face are the exorbitant demands 
of the negro chiefs. They know that the slave - 
dealer, if over-taxed, will open some other and rival 
line. Bat they see the European for the first time ; 



294 



DESERTION. 



they never expect, nor perhaps do they desire, ever 
to see him again ; and their only object is to gauge 
his generosity by extracting from him as much as 
possible. This is the severest trial of temper, 
for the explorer well knows that the end of his 
outfit is the end of his journey. Whilst he 
recognizes the absolute necessity of economy, the 
disappointed chief, in high dudgeon, urges his 
rights, perhaps with threats ; and certainly causes 
all manner of delays and difficulties. The native 
in charge of the caravan fears awkward conse- 
quences, especially at times of war or draught, of 
famine or pestilence, and complies with the de- 
mand in secret, if prevented from acting openly, 
out of his own purse if not from the public funds. 
The over-worked traveller, scolding, storming, 
and getting up temper to blood-heat when re- 
quired, cannot watch every string of beads or 
yard of cloth ; and some day a report is brought 
to him that he is running short, when perhaps 
the most interesting part of his journey is within 
sight, and yet, for want of means, cannot be 
explored. 

We found also an unmitigated evil in the 
universal practice of desertion. The fickle and 
inconsequent negro slave must, they say, run 
away once in his life, and, like the liar of the 



DESERTIOX. 



295 



Persian Joe Miller, he will do so at the most 
awkward of times. The impulsive, irritable, and 
violent Murungwanah (libertus) is equally apt 
to abscond, especially after disputes with his 
fellows, and he generally adds injury to injury by 
carrying away liis pack. The undisciplinable 
free porters disappear en masse if commons wax 
short, if loads be too heavy, if a fight be 
threatened, or if wasting of ammunition be for- 
bidden. Under similar circumstances the turbul- 
ent Baloch mutiny and march off. During our 
18 months' march there was not, in the party of 
80, an individual who did not at some time or 
other desert or attempt to desert us. The Second 
Expedition, despite all its advantages of more 
abundant supplies and of ample support from 
Zanzibar, fared not a whit better : we find in it 
123 desertions duly chronicled. 

Eor three months and a half our heart-wear- 
ing work was cheered only by two stimulants, 
the traveller's delight in seeing new scenes unfold 
themselves before his eyes and the sense of doing 
a something lastingly useful to geographers. We 
were also opening for Europeans a new road into 
the heart of Africa, a region boundless in com- 
mercial resources, and bounded in commercial 
development only by the stereotyped barbarism 



29G 



HALT AT KAZEIL 



of its inhabitants ; and we hoped that those who 
might follow us would be able to turn many of 
the obstacles through which we were compelled 
to cut a way. In November, 1857, Ve perforce 
halted for rest and to reorganize the party at 
Kazeh in Unyamwezi, some 350 direct geographi- 
cial miles from the coast. The site was the most 
pleasant that we had hitherto seen, a plateau (S. 
lat. 5° and E. long. G. 33°) in the depths of the 
Tropics, but made temperate by altitude (3000 
to 4000 feet above sea level), studded with hills 
rising abruptly from fertile grassy plains, and 
broken by patches of cultivation, by valleys, and 
by forests of the richest growth. 

At this half-way house the Expedition was 
hospitably received by the warm-hearted Arabs, 
Snay bin Amir, Said bin Majid, old Said bin Ali, 
the sons of Salim bin Rashid, Muhiniia bin 
Sulayman, and other notabilities of the great 
central mart. They housed us and supplied all 
our wants — I know not what we should have 
done without their friendly aid — and the geo- 
graphical information which they gave me di- 
rectly led to what many have held to be the most 
important feature of the exploration. The Second 
Expedition also records its obligations in the 
matter of hands and rations. It found, however, 



HALT AT KAZEH. 



297 



Kazeh turned into an agricultural depot, tlie 
neiglibouring Tillages ruined, and the people 
starving. The merchants had refused to pay a 
tax imposed upon them by Manwa Sera, son of 
the Pundi Kira, lord of Unyanyembe, in the days 
when I visited it, and the young chief, who was 
very popular, had been supplanted by his half- 
brother Msikiwa. Hence a war resulting in the 
death of my poor friend, the brave Snay bin Amir, 
who, being too proud and perhaps not young 
enough to run from the hosts of enemies, lay down 
when abandoned by his negroes and took his 
chance, that is to say, was slaughtered. Manwa 
Sera then threatened to attack Kazeh, and the 
Arabs begged Capt. Speke not to abandon hosts, 
whose warm and generous hospitality he repeatedly 
acknowledges. The reply was that ' he had a duty 
to perform as well as themselves, and that in a 
day or two he would be off.' Some men would 
not have treated so lightly a heavy debt of grati- 
tude, but such compunctions are often fatal to suc- 
cess. Capt. Speke, I doubt not, really believed that 
' the interests of old England were at stake : ' he 
had not hesitated for a moment in throwing 
over a Himalayan friend who was to have ac- 
companied him, nor did he deem himself other- 
wise but justified in separating from a com- 



298 



DETENTION AT KAZEIL 



panion subject to African fever recurring every 
fortnight. 

We were detained a month at Kazeh. Purple 
sides, westerly gales, and furious thunderstorms, 
showed that the Masika Mku, or Great Eains, 
were about to break, and the change was evident 
after the high cold easterly winds which, during 
the six months of rainless season, sweep the 
elevated basin. Our gang was paid off and an- 
other was not easily collected : porters during 
the dry, these men became peasants in the wet 
weather. With infinite trouble, and only by the 
aid of the Arabs, we were able to leave Kazeh on 
December 8, during the lieight of the S. West 
monsoon. The march of 180 direct geographical 
miles was to us the most disastrous of all. The 
downfall was copious and unintermitting, storms 
burst over us with such thunder and lightning as 
I have never witnessed before or since, the flood- 
ing rivers necessitated ferry-boats, and the land, 
declining and draining to the westward, became 
one Great Dismal Swamp. Reduced in strength 
by persistent fevers, we could not resist the 
drencliings and sunburnings, the long day 
marches and the nights spent in unhealthy and 
sometimes deserted villages. My companion 
complained of blindness which hardly permitted 



SICKNESS. 



299 



him to read a Tratch, and I suddenly found my- 
self helpless with paraplegia, a paralysis of the 
extremities, which, according to Capt. Smee, 
often follows febrile attacks at Zanzibar. 

After a total of some 537 rectilinear geogra- 
phical miles ^ from the coast, we ascended, on 
Peb. 13, 1858, the well-wooded range which 
bounds the eastern waters of the ' Sea of Ujiji,' 
and from the western declivity we sighted — 
very imperfectly, it must be owned — the fair 
expanse of a lake whose name was then unknown 
to us. Some months afterwards, when reading 
Dr Livingstone's first expedition, I found (chap, 
xxiv.) that the traveller meeting a party of 
Zanzibar Arabs at Xaliele in the centre of the 
continent, heard of the ' Tanganyenka,' a ' large 
shallow lake over which canoes were punted.' 
At that time, however, I had sent to England 
the picturesque native name 'Tanganyika,' the 
* meeting-place of waters.'^ The sight was a 

1 The first expedition placed Kazeh in E. long. (G.) 33o 3' 0" 
The second „ „ „ 33 1 34 

Difference ~0 1 26^ 
The first expedition placed Ujiji in E. long. (G.) "30^^ 0^ 0^' 

The second „ „ 29 54 30 

Difference ~0 5 30 
These close results place Captain Speke's positions beyond 
all possibility of cavil. 

2 In Mr Wakefield's routes (loc. cit.) we find ' To Mtan- 
ganjiko. — Kitawabili, meaning tbe place of mingling or mix- 



300 



THE DISCOVERY. 



cordial : this one gleam of success consoled us, 
made us forget the petty annoyances, the endless 
worry, the hardship, and the sickness which we 
had endured for it ; and we felt a sensible relief 
from the grinding care which the prospect of 
failure must ever present. 

Yet even the bright view of the blue waters 
had its dark side : we had left the Louisa be- 
hind, and we saw no way of navigating this 
lake. Pteaching, on February 14, 1858, Kawele 
of the Ujiji district, a market village and a 
depot for ivory and slaves on the eastern side, 
and about the northern third of the Tanganyika, 
we housed our goods and began to cast about for 
canoes. The only dau or sailing craft belonged 
to Shaykh Hamid, an Arab trader then living at 
Kasenge, a little insular station near the Western 
shore. After making all necessary inquiries, I 
despatched, on May 3, my companion with a 
party of 26 men : he crossed the Tanganyika, but 
in vain — the proprietor would not convoy us 
round the lake, though we offered him £100 for 
a fortnight's cruise. Captain Speke here met 
with a strange accident : a beetle crept into his 

ture (rendezvous).' I cannot, however, but suspect that the 
word is a misprint for Mtanganyika. At any rate it will com- 
pletely support niy assertions versus Mr Cooley and the town 
ot Zanganica, where no such things as towns exist. 



HAMID'S XILE. 



301 



ear, and being awkwardly killed, caused for 6 to 7 
months deafness and suppuration : it acted, how- 
ever, as a counter-irritant, and to a certain ex- 
tent gave him back his sight. My companion 
afterwards complained loudly of being unable to 
accompany Hamid to the TTruwwa^ district, where 
merchants traded for ivory and copper: we 
should thus have spanned half the Continent, 
and our line could easilv have been connected 
with Dr Livingstone's route through Angola. 
As, however, on that journey Hamid and all his 
slaves were murdered, and their property was 
plundered by the people, my companion had 
not much to regret. 

Hamid, moreover, gave information which 
made us wild to reach the upper end of the Tan- 
ganyika Lake. He had been so near its northern 
head that he had felt the outward drift of the 

^ Air Coolev (p. 13, Memoir of the Lake Eegions of East 
Afirica renewed) declares that ' the name ^ariia is the Sawa- 
hilj equivalent of Milua, and that the Miluana, as the Awembe 
are also called, signifies mixed or half-bred Miliia ; ' he more- 
over identifies them with the * Alunda, who, with the Arungo, 
including apparently the "W'akatata or TVakatanea, are all 
Wat'hembwe or subjects of the Cazembe.' He finds that I 
have written Uruwwa, ' with greater show of oricjinality and 
rigorous Arabism.' the fact being that I wrote down what the 
Arabs told me. Col. J. A. Grant (AtheUcTum, April 9, 1S70) 
identifies Uruwwa with Dr Livingstone's Eua, where tribes 
live ' in under-ground houses said to be 30 miles long/ 



302 



DISAPPOINTMENT. 



stream. The rains were still heavy ; but as our 
supplies were running short, we resolved to 
make the attempt in any way. Kannena, the 
Chief of Ujiji, proved himself an ill-disposed and 
ungovernable savage, ever attempting to thwart 
our plans, and evidently holding that we were 
quite at his mercy. But wishing to bring ivory 
from Uvira, he was persuaded to escort us with 
two canoes. Our excursion northwards occupied 
15 days, eight being the usual time ; and it was 
not a 'pleasure-trip.' 

At Uvira my hopes of discovering the 
"Western Nile Keservoir, and of solving the pro- 
blem which has puzzled some 30 centuries, were 
rudely dashed to the ground. The Warundi 
savages, who had stopped Ilamid near the 
northern end of the lake, were hostile to the 
Wajiji, and we could not proceed to the north 
Avhere the mountains walling-in the water seemed 
to converge. Similarly the second expedition, 
during five months spent with the King of Ugande, 
was unable to sight the ' Victoria Nyanza,' 
distant five hours' walk. Capt. Speke ascended 
perhaps 150 feet, but from so low an altitude he 
could obtain no general view of the land north of 
the Tanganyika, and he laid down a narrow valley. 
Presently receiving a visit from the three stalwart 



FAILURE. 



303 



sons of the Sultan Maruta, the subject of the 
mysterious stream which all my informants, Arab 
as well as African, had made to issue from the 
lake, and which for months we had looked upon 
as the western head-stream of the iS'ile, was at 
once brought forward. All declared (probably 
falsely) that they had visited it ; all asserted that 
the Eusizi river enters into, instead of flowing 
from, the Tanganyika, and presently Sidi Bom- 
bay, by way of the coldest consolation (' little 
goat, don't die, spring comes ! '), declared that Ha- 
mid had meant the reverse of what he said. I felt 
sick at heart. The African's account of stream- 
direction is often diametrically opposed to fact ; 
seldom the Arab's — in this point I differ totally 
from Capt. Speke. But our Wajiji would not 
suffer us to remain at Uvira, much less to pene- 
trate northwards : we were compelled hurriedly 
to return ; and thus, as has before been related, the 
mystery remained unsolved. I distinctly deny 
that any ' misleading by my instructions from the 
Boyal Geographical Society as to the position 
of the White Xile,' made me unconscious of the 
vast importance of ascertaining the direction of 
the Eusizi river. The fact is, we did our best to 
reach it, and we failed. 

I returned home with the conviction that the 



304 



THE STILL LAIvE. 



Tanganyika is a still lake. This view, however, 
appeared a strange hvdrographical puzzle to 
geographers, who were not slow to combat it. 
Messrs Vaux and Galton, and my kind friend 
Mr Eindlay, who has never ceased to impress the 
public with what he holds to be the true state of 
the case, doubted that an immense reservoir 250 
miles long, situated at a considerable altitude in 
the African zone of almost constant rain, whose 
potable waters are free of saline substances 
washed down by its tributaries from the area of 
drainage, and which shows no marks of great 
accession of level, can maintain these conditions 
without efflux. The most natural explanation 
was to make the Marungu, Luapula, or Eunangwa 
river, at the southern extremity of the Tangan- 
yika, act outlet, and drain it to theXyassa or Kilwa 
Lake, bearing S. 55^ East, and distant 340 to 350 
miles. The universal testimony of the natives to 
its being an influent formed in the mind of my 
companion (Journal, p. 90) six years afterwards 
' the most conclusive argument that it does run 
out of the lake.' It did not appear equally con- 
clusive to others. 

The absence of all connection, however, be- 
tween the Tanganyika and the Nyassa Lakes 
was proved by Dr Livingstone's second expedi- 



DRAINAGE OF LAKE TAXGAXYIKA. 305 



tion and by the excellent paper *' ou the probable 
ultimate sources of the Xile ' (Mr Alexander Geo. 
PincUay, F.E.G.S., read June 3, 1S67). The lat- 
ter showed that no considerable stream drain- 
ing an area of at least oUOO square Eritish 
miles, or a country as large as England and 
France combined, enters Xvassa from the north. 
Since that time Dr Livingstone has pkiced 
(Letters to Dr Kirk, July 8, 1868, and to the 
Earl of Clarendon, July, 1868) the Xile sources 
between S. lat. 10° and 12% north of the great 
Serra Muxinga of the Portuguese travellers 
Lacerda, Monteii-o, and Gamitto, nearly in the po- 
sition assigned to them by Ptolemy uncorrected 
for latitude.^ About 100 miles south of the south- 
ernmost extremity of the Xyanza or Xoithem 
» ft 

Lake, he finds 'not one source, but upwards of 20 
of them/ and he is under the impression that he 

^ Mr Findlaj remarks, *The length of the J^ile's course 
from Gondokoro to its mouth, following its major windins^s, is 
about 2400 geog. miles (= 2780 British miles). From Gon- 
dokoro, near to which it was generally agreed, ten years ago, 
that the southernmost head of the Nile would be foimd, to the 
south end of the Tanganyika Lake, is S30 geog. miles (= 960 
Eritish miles). If the source be near the Muxinga range, it 
must be 270 geog. miles (= 312 British mUes) still farther 
south, so that its total course w-ill be 3500 geog. (= 4050 
British) miles, almost unparalleled by any other river ' (loc. cit. 
note, p. 16). 

TOL. II. 20 



306 DR LIVINGSTONES DISCOVERIES. 



had stood on the water-shed between the Zam- 
beze and either the Congo or the Nile. Mr 
Keith Johnston jun.'s excellent paper ^ shows that 
the Serra Muxinga, of which more presently, may 
represent that portion of the Rocky Mountains 
which send forth the Missouri, the Columbia, and 
the Colorado. And he apparently would drain 
the northern fall to the Congo river, whereas 
in the Mittheilungen it takes the direction of 
the Albert Nyassa, and the labours of Capt. 
George, E..N., would throw the water into the 
Tanganyika. 

Thus the theory of the southern effluent lost 
favour, and that which made the Rusizi a north- 
ern influent soon shared the same fate. In 1863 
Capt. Speke converted it into a lake or a ^ broad,' 
of which he had heard the year before, lying be- 
tween the Tanganyika and the Luta Nzige, Mwu- 
tan or Albert Nyassa. Presently Sir Samuel 
Baker (1864) caused the southern extremity of 
the Luta Nzige, which he placed 2200 feet 
above sea-level, to over-lap the Husizi. 'I there- 
fore claim,' concludes Mr Eindlay, 'for Lake 
Tanganyika the honour of being the Southern- 

1 ' A map of the Lake Regions of Eastern Africa, showing 
the Sources of the Nile recently discovered bj Dr Livingstone, 
with Notes on the Exploration of this Region, its physical 
Eeatures, Climate, and Population.' London, 1870. 



SOUTHERNMOST RESERVOIR OF THE NILE. 307 



MOST Reservoir oe the Nile until some more 
positive evidence, by actual observation, shall 
otherwise determine it.' 

To this view the geographical public offered 
two objections. The first was that the northern 
end of the Tanganyika is encircled by the ' con- 
cave of the Mountains of the Moon.' This was 
easily removed, as the reader of these pages will 
see, by a collation of the several maps forwarded 
by the Expedition from the interior. The first, 
bearing date May, 1858, was sent from Kazeh on 
July 2, 1858 : it showed the results of our 
discovery (in February, 1858) and of the inform- 
ation supplied to me by narratio obliqua through 
the Arabs and Africans of Unyanyembe. Having 
no theory to support, it laid down, what we saw 
or thought we saw, an open longitudinal valley 
running northwards from the Tanganyika Lake. 
But that which my companion brought home in 
June, 1859, bore signs of great change, especially 
in a confused mass of mountains completely in- 
vesting the northern third of the long narrow cre- 
vasse : this by degrees resolved itself into a huge 
horseshoe, which was incontinently dubbed the 
' Mountains of the Moon, about 6000 feet.' In 
his second expedition (Journal, p. 2G3) Capt. Speke 
declares that the range had been laid down ' solely 



308 TRUE LEVEL OE THE TANGANYIKA. 



on scientific geographical reasons/ in fact, out of 
the depths of his self-consciousness, and he sup- 
plemented it with a Lake Eusizi. I saw it grow- 
ing up under his hands, as copy followed copy : 
I repeatedly ohjected to it, yet it managed to 
deform the maps of Central Africa for years 
afterwards. It threw us once more hack into 
the romantic geography of the Arahs, who wove 
, into one line Jebel Kumri, and transferred north 
of the equator the scattered ranges which Ptolemy 
(iv. 9) disposed at the antarctic end of his 
habitable Africa. These, going from east to west, 
are represented by Barditon Oros (S. lat. IG'^) 
Meskhe or Ineskki, the Kegion of Agysimba (S. 
lat. 13'^), Xipha or Ziphar (S. lat. 8^^ 20' 5"), 
Daukhis Oros (S. lat. 13^), and Ion, the mountain 
of the Hesperian ^Ethiopians (S. lat. 8^ 20' 5"). 

The second objection was the elevation of the 
Tanganyika Lake. Its low level in the great 
central plateau proved, however, to be a mere 
mistake : only one observation was made, and 
that gave but 1844 feet above the sea. But 
presently Mr Pindlay found a pencil memoran- 
dum by Capt. Speke, showing that when he 
again reached the coast our thermometer, a com- 
mon bath instrument, used because all the others 
had been broken, boiled at 214° (F.) instead of 



SECOND OBJECTION ANSWERED. 3Q§ 



212*' (F.). Moreover, the observations of Sir 
Samuel Baker, carefully compared with those of 
the second expedition, decisively proved that 
1000 feet must be added, placing the Tanganyika 
and the Nyanza on nearly the same level. 
Again, Dr Livingstone reports from Bangweolo 
(July, 1868) of the Liemba Lake, that he would 
have set it down as an arm of the Tanganyika, 
but that its surface is 2800 feet above sea-level, 
' while Speke makes it 1844 only.' Finally, the 
great African traveller, who has now been long 
resident in the regions west of the Tanganyika 
Lake, always writes of it as if he considered the 
connection between it and the Luta Xzige 
established. Thus the altitude of Lake Tangan- 
yika was raised to 2800 feet, which would easily 
carry its waters to the Xile. ' It may appear 
strange,' as Mr Galtonhas remarked, ' that there 
should be an error of a thousand feet of altitude 
suspected in the observations of an explorer, 
but the method of operating in uncivilized 
countries is quite different from that employed 
at home.' Evidently Capt. Speke allowed the 
altitude of the lake to lie uncorrected for the 
same reason which made him raise his ' Lunae 
montes.' This will also answer M. Parthey (June 
2, 1864, Uoyal Academy of Sciences, Berlin). 







THE MOON MOUNTAIN. 



A few words concerning tlie Moon Mountain, 
in which are the Ptolenieian Nile sources. It is 
placed in S. lat. 12'' 30', which, by applying 
the reduction as before proposed, we should 
convert to S. lat. 6° 30', and between East long. 
hi"" and 67"", which, if taken from S. Antonio 
(Antao), as the late Mr Hogg suggested, would 
be = E. long. G. 30'' to ^O."" Its northern slope 
drains to the lake under the parallels of S. lat. 

and 7", and separated by about 8"" of meridional 
distance. In many maps is added a third, or 
equatorial lake, which may be the Bahari- 
ngo, or Baringo, and indeed in chap. xvii. (lib. i.) 
we find a plural form rag xZ/tva^, possibly showing 
a knowledge of two large and sundry smaller 
features. The great Unyamwezi Upland, using 
the name at its fullest extent, is bounded both 
north and south by huge latitudinal blocks and 
chains of mountains. The equatorial is the 
Highland of Karagwali, extending eastward to 
the iEthiopic Olympus Kilima-njaro. The south- 
ern, corresponding with Ptolemy's parallels, is the 
great chain and plateau, whose apex is the Serra 
Muxinga or Muchingwe, named by the explorer 
Dr de Lacerda Cordelheira Antonina, in honour 
of his prince. Lying in about S. lat. 12^ this 
feature, ranging from 3000 to 6000 feet high, 



SERRA MUXINGA. 



311 



may evidently be the divide of the Nile, the 
Congo, and Zambezean basins ; whilst the north- 
eastern projection feeds with four considerable 
streams the Lake Liemba, discovered by Dr 
Livingstone on April 2, 1867, and supposed to 
connect with the Tanganyika by the E^iver 
Marungu. The altitude of the Serra was esti- 
mated in 1831 by Messrs Monteiro and Gamitto 
at a Portuguese league (= about 19,700 feet) 
above sea-level, palpably exaggerated, as in 
winter (August 10) neither ice nor snow was 
found upon it. They describe the head as nearly 
always enveloped in clouds, and] as by far the 
loftiest summit in that part of Africa ; the profile 
rises steeply and abruptly from the table-land, 
commanding an extensive prospect northward, 
and the ridge is broken by terrible and dangerous 
precipices. Snow in this part of the continent 
may be alluded to by Joao de Barros, who 
declares that in the Matouca country, though 
situated between the equator and the tropic of 
Capricorn, the natives die of cold. Later Por- 
tuguese historians declare the Lupata to be a 
snowy range, probably referring, not to the 
gorge of that name, but to the great block with 
which it is connected. Dr Livingstone repre- 
S3nts this, his latest discovery, to cover a space 



312 



GREEK DERIVATIONS. 



south of the Tanganyika some 350 miles square, 
dotted with lakes, and traversed on the eastern 
side by the River Chambeze, which was first 
mentioned by Dr de Lacerda, and which has 
hitherto been confounded with the Zambeze. 
The Greek term ' Mountain of the Moon ' may, 
I have already suggested, be derived from 
' Unyamwezi,' an empire whose position between 
the Tanganyika and the Nyanza group is laid down 
in the map of Duarte Lopez (a. d. 1578 — 1587). 
The name of this extensive region is still con- 
tracted upon the coast to Mwezi, meaning the 
Moon, and thus we might translate Ptolemy, 
Mountain of Unyamwezi. Similarly, the an- 
cients derived the Erythrean Sea from the Sea 
of Edom and of Ilirayar, both signifying Red : 
Diascorias was a corruption of Dwipa Sokotra, 
and, to quote no more, Dr Beke has shown how 
the Ptolemeian labadiou (Java-dwipa) became 
Barley Island without growing barley.^ 

Finally, if we reject Unyamwezi and Mux- 
inga as the original Lunar Mountains, we must 
seek the latter with Dr Beke in the icy peaks 
of the jEthiopic Olympus, prolonged to the 
Highlands of Karagwah. 

A longer delay at Uvira than we had in 

' The Sources of the Nile (p. 83). London : Madden, 18G0. 



THE DOWN-MARCH. 



313 



tended greatly improved my health : the state of 
our finances, however, compelled us to set out 
without delay from Ujiji to Kazeh. The rains 
had ceased on May 15, and the return (June 11) 
by a straighter and more southerly road, was far 
less unpleasant than the up-march. After a 
short interval for repose, and for recovering his 
sight and hearing, Capt. Speke volunteered to 
explore a lake reported to lie north, and known 
to the Arabs as ' Ukerewe,' or Island-land. I 
had heard of it in Zanzibar Island as a water 
called ' Karagoa,' parallel with and one month 
west of the Sea of Ujiji. A signal disappoint- 
ment at the ' Ziwa ' ^ of Ugogo, which proved to 
be a mere pond, made me suspect the informants : 
yet Snay bin Amir and Musa Mzuri had both 
visited the mountain regions to its west, and their 
observations were represented in the sketch map, 
1858, which, I repeat, is far less incorrect than 
the exaggerated growth of 1859.- I was, how- 

• This word means a lake or pond, not the ' river of the 
lake.' Its plural is not AVaziwa — \va being the animate prefix 
— but Maziwa (e. g. Maziwa Mengi, many lakes). It is not 
used by the Wasawahili to signify the south. An Arab would 
not make the plural Ziwahah (but Ziwat or Ziwam, it" he at- 
tempted such barbarism) ; nor would he want to use the ad- 
jective ' Ziwai.' These five errors occur in as many lines. 
(Geography of N'yassi, 24, 25.) 

^ Yet, curious to say, the map of May, 185S, was drawn from 



314 



CO LB URN'S CRITIC. 



ever, delighted with the prospect of a month's 
leisure for inquiry amongst the intelligent Arabs. 
It was also necessary to copy out notes, which 
ill health had left in confusion, and to learn 
something about the southern as well as the 
northern regions. Moreover, if truth must be 
told, I sighed for the 

' Beafca Solitudo 
Sola Beatitudo ' 

of the Pisan Cortosa. A critic in Colburn's 
New Monthly Magazine (The Nile Basin), re- 
marks, ' It was when travelling with Burton that 
Speke first discovered Lake Nyanza, and his less 
fortunate fellow-traveller seems never to have 
forgiven the brilliancy of an achievement which 
left him comparatively in the shade.' Mean, 
indeed, must be the man who thus gratuitously 
imputes the meanest of motives to another ! 
What interest can the leader of an expedition 
have in reducing his field of exploration, of not 
doing his best, of not discovering as much as 

hearsay, and that of June, 1859, after the southern part of the 
lake region, now known as the ' Victoria Nyanza,' had been 
discovered by Capt. Speke. In the former, however, he 
added the ' Mountains of the Moon,' and prolonged the lotfg 
parallelogram from N. lat. 2° to N. lat. 3° 20', a country 
known by the reports of the Egyptian expedition of 1810, of 
Dr Peney, and of MM. Miami and Vincent Angelo. 



CAPTAIN SPEKE'S DISCOVERY. 315 



Fate allows him to discover ? May he not expect, 
like the general of an army, at least to share in 
the glory won by the arms of his lieutenants ? 
Capt. Speke was provided with a gang of 34^ 
guards, servants, and porters : he much wanted 
the little Siiaykh Said, but the latter wept privily 
at the prospect of meeting death by want and 
hardship, and I allowed him to remain at Kazeh, 
lest his intrigues might work mischief. Though 
my companion was a match for ' Sidi Bombay,' 
he was a child in the hands of the trickv Arab. 

Captain Speke made a most spirited march. 
On August 3rd he sighted the ' Xyanza Lake,' to 
which he gave 3740 feet of altitude ; and he re- 
turned, after covering in 47 days (June 9th to 
August 25th) 300 direct and 425 indirect geo- 
graphical miles. He brought back the inform- 
ation that this great equatorial reservoir was 
known to the people as Nyanza, a generic term 
which, like Xyassa, means a sea, a stream, or a 
lake. Standing 250 feet above its level, he saw 
20 to 22 (not ' over a hundred ') miles of surface, 
hardly enough to command a liquid horizon be- 
tween the islets which he called Mazita, Ukerewe, 
and Majid. 

Presently, by comparing Arab accounts, I 
found in Capt. Speke's diary sundry uncertainties 



316 



DOUBTS. 



of detail, such as making Mazita, and perhaps 
Ukewere, insular instead of peninsular features. 
Nor could I hear a word beyond the old legend 
current amongst African tribes, from Somaliland 
to the Mozambique, touching white men and 
ships navigating a lake or a river in the interior. 
The Kazeh people, as I ascertained by consulting 
them, Knoblecher in hand, equally ignored the 
familiar tribal names of Nyam-Nyam, Eungo, 
Mundu, Dor, Jur, Kek, Nuelir, and the Shilluks, 
West, with the Dinkas, East of the Nile. Their 
Bari was simply 'Bahri ' — Accolae of the sea or 
river. But Capt. Speke had discovered on ' that 
broad open lake,' not only the ' sources of some 
great river,' not only the Palus Orientalis Nili, but 
' The Sources of the Nile ' : he had raised the 
veil of Isis, he had settled for ever the ' mystery 
of old Nilus' origin.' The subject soon proved 
too sore for discussion, and evidently at that 
time my companion began to prepare for a future 
campaign, by lavishly retouching his maps, and 
by barring the Upper Tanganyika from any pos- 
sible connection with the northern basin. 

During the second expedition Capt. Speke 
left Kazeh in May, 1861, and travelled to the 
N. West, without ever sighting the ' broad sur- 
face.' Living with King Rumanika of Karagvvah, 



SHAPE OF CAPTAIN SPEKE'S 'LAKE: 317 



he might have visited it, but he did not. He 
then turned nearly due north, and on January 
28th, 1862, he first viewed, from Mashonde, a 
water which he instinctively determined to be 
the Nyanza. In vain the petty chief Makaka 
(Journal, p. 130) assured him that 'there were 
two lakes, and not one ' : as vainly others made the 
Mwerango, or Kafu river, rise from a range in the 
centre of the so-called lake, and ' did not know 
what Xvanza he meant.' These, and other re- 
marks naively recorded, could not disperse 
foregone conclusions ; and the explorer never 
attempted to ascertain by inspection if his pre- 
conceived ideas were correct. 

We can therefore accept only the southern 
part of the Xyanza discovered by Capt. Speke, 
when I despatched him from Kazeh; and the 
marshy reed-margined and probably shallow 
N. Western water, which he sighted in January 
and July, 1862. The result is a blank occupying 
nearly 29,900 square miles, and of the recognized 
and official form of the assumed Victoria Xvanza 
I may observe, that it is a triangle, whose arms, 
viewed by one standing at the southern apex, 
trended N. East and X. West ; the extremities, 
240 miles distant, being connected arbitrarily by 
a horizontal base runnino^ nearlv due East-West 



318 HIS LAKE A PHYSICAL IMPOSSIBILITY. 



a little north of the Equator. Pinally, Captain 
Speke made his own lake a physical impossibility. 
Within little more than 60 miles from east to 
west he has given it three main effluents, the Mwe- 
rango, the Luajerri, and the Nile or Napoleon 
channel, to say nothing of the Myo Myanza, the 
Murchison Creek, the Usoga stream, together 
with the Asua river from the Baringo. It is 
w^onderful that our 19th century maps continue 
to print such a phenomenon. What will posterity 
say of this magnum opus ? 

After Captain Speke's return we debated, in 
frequent conferences with the Arabs, the advis- 
ability of remaining at Kazeh till fresh supplies 
could be procured from Zanzibar, thus enabling 
us to visit the northern kingdoms — Karagwah, 
Uganda, and Unyoro. Our good friends unani- 
mously advised us to reserve the exploration for 
another journey. The lake was, unlike the Tan- 
ganyika, unnavigated ; to travel along the S. 
Eastern shores was, they said, impossible owing 
to the ferocity of the pastoral tribes, and the 
mutual jealousies of great despots on the western 
banks would necessitate a large outfit, and per- 
haps years of delay. Their advice appearing 
sound, I applied myself to the ways and means 
of marching upon Kilwa, thus avoiding a return 



END OF THE EXPEDITION. 



310 



by the same road, which led us into Unyamwezi. 
But as the former project was dismissed because 
w^e could not depend upon assistance from Zan- 
zibar, so the latter was frustrated by the unman- 
ageable obstinacy of our porters. I wanted 
exceptional resources for bribing them into com- 
pliance, and our leave of absence having ended, it 
was judged imprudent to attempt that expendi- 
ture of time, which in these regions alone com- 
pensates for extensive outlay of capital. 

The East African Expedition bade adieu to 
Unyanyembe on Sept. 26, 1858, and after a march 
eventless except in delays and difficulties caused 
by desertion and sickness, by the drought and 
the famine then desolating the land, it reached 
in early Eebruary, 1859, the little maritime 
village Konduclii. Erom the slope of red hill we 
hailed with delight the first gleam of the Indian 
Ocean, and my companion thanked me with 
effasion for the efforts which I had made in 
enabling him to travel with me. Yerily ' tjiere 
were nights and days before us,' and we thought 
little of what presently was to be the con- 
sequence ! 

The results of the East African Expedition of 
1857 — 1859, which, with the aid of many friends 
— their names will be found in the preceding 



320 



DR BEKE'S OPINION. 



pages — was organized wholly by myself, may 
thus be briefly summed up. When ignorant of 
the country and knowing little of its languages, 
]3receded only by a Erench officer, who was 
murdered shortly after he landed, and under 
other immense disadvantages, especially the 
deaths of Sayyid Said and Lieut. -Colonel Hamer- 
ton, I led the most disorderly of caravans into 
the heart of Intertropical Africa, and succeeded 
in discovering the Tanganyika, and the southern 
portion of what is now called the Victoria Ny- 
anza Lake. The road was thus thoroughly laid 
open : those who would follow me had only to 
read vol. xxxi. (Journal of the Royal Geographi- 
cal Society) and the ' Lake Eegions of Central 
Africa,' to learn all they require concerning sea- 
sons and sickness, industry and commerce, what 
outfit and material were necessary, what guides, 
escort, and porters were wanted, what obstacles 
might be expected, and what facilities would pro- 
bably offer themselves. My labours thus ren- 
dered easy the ingress of future expeditions, 
which had only to tread in my steps. Dr Beke, 
the traveller who deserves all praise for having 
suggested a feasible way to explore the Nile 
Sources, kindly found ' reason to call this em- 
phatically a memorable Expedition.' My friend 



MR FIX DL ATS OPIXIOX. 



321 



Mr Pindlay's estimate is still more flattering : 
' The first East African Expedition has had scant 
justice done to it of late, seeing that it was the 
finest harvest, and that by much the most abund- 
ant one, of those brilliant discoveries in Eastern 
Africa so eminentlv fostered bv the Eoval Geo- 
graphical Society.' 

One wise in his generation whispered into my 
ear before returning to England, ' Boldly assert 
that you have discovered the source of the Xile — 
if you are right, tant mieux, if wrong, you will 
have made your game before the mistake is 
found out ! ' I need hardly explain wliy the 
advice was rejected, nor does it befit me to com- 
plain that Honesty, in my case at least, has not 
hitherto proved the best policy. Meruisse satis ! 
***** 

Since these lines were penned Time has again 
proved himself the Avenger. The valuable 
notes on the Geography of Eastern Africa for- 
warded by Mr Wakefield enable me to show, 
almost with a certainty, that the 29,900 square 
miles assisrned as the area to the ' Victoria Xv- 
anza' contain at least four, and probably a 
greater number, of separate waters. 

Mr Keith Johnston, jun., who appended re- 
marks to the paper in question, observes (p. 333) 

VOL. n. 21 



322 



MR WAKEFIELD'S NOTES. 



that ' the arguments which Captain Eurton used 
in recommending a division of the jN^yanza had 
not a sufficient basis of proof to give them 
moment, is shown by the acceptance of the lake 
as one sheet of water by the whole geographical 
world.' The mapper will readily understand 
that it is much more convenient to have a lake 
neatly traced, and painted sky-blue like the 
Damascus swamps, than to split it up as I did : 
a volume published by the late Mr Mac queen and 
myself (The Nile Basin. London : Tinsleys, 1864) 
gave a sketch of what was actually seen by the 
second expedition, and the aspect of disjecta 
membra is not inviting. Afterwards, liowever 
(p. 334), Mr Johnston remarks, ' Captain Bur- 
ton's recommendation would seem to receive 
some slight support from the new information 
obtained by Mr Wakefield,* to which I add that 
the language might have been less hesitating. 
The ' Notes on the Geography of Eastern Africa ' 
establish the existence of two new lakes. 

The first is that which we named from hear- 
say, Bahari ya Ngo or Baliari Ngo (Sea, i. e. 
water of Ngo) : Mr Wakefield prefers ' Barmgo, 
or canoe,' possibly so called from its forin.^ 

^ This birds-eye view and comprelicnsive idea of aliape re- 
gardiug a feature so considerable does not appear to me African. 



THE NEW LAKES. 



323 



Koute Xo. 5, from ' Lake Xyanza ' to Lake 
Baringo, proves conclusively that Lake Baringo is 
not a vast salt marsh, or perhaps a sort of back- 
water, ' connected with the Victoria Xyanza by 
a strait, at the same distance from the East of 
Bipon Falls as the Katonga river is to the West.' 
Kor is it a lake without effluent : in this matter 
it has evidently been confused with the lately 
heard of saline Lake Xairvasha or Balibali, S. 
West of Doenyo Ebor (Mont Blanc), alias Kenia. 
Native report supplies it with the Xorthern 
Nyarus, an outfall, the old Tliambiri or Tubi- 
rih, and Meri, afterwards called Lsua, and Asua, 
the latter two words probably corrupted from 
Nyarus. 

Ear more important, however, is the new lake 
which Mr Wakefield's informant, Sadi bin Ahedi, 
ignoring Xyanza, calls 'Xyanja' and ' Bahari 
ya Pili,' or second Sea, not, as we are expressly 
warned, because inland of the first sea or Indian 
Ocean, but clearly because leading to a first, and, 
lastly, called *Bahari ya L^kara,' this being the 
name of the region on the East shore. Here we 
at once detect the origui of the ancient Garava, 
and the modern Ukerewe which the Wanyam- 
wezi applied to the oriental portion of the sup- 
posed ' Victoria Nyanza.' Bespecting the width 



324 



TEE UKAEA LAKES. 



of the Nyanja or TJkara Lake, Sadi declared 
that it could be crossed by canoes in 6 full days, 
paddling from sunrise to sunset, and that if the 
men went right on, night and day, the voyage 
was accomplished in three days. But the native 
craft used upon those dangerous mountain 
waters never dare to cross them : the voyager 
may rush over the narrow parts of the Tan- 
ganyika, but nothing would induce him to at- 
tempt the physical impossibility of navigating 
without chart or compass beyond reach and 
sight of shore. It is an absurdity to suppose a 
canoe-cruise across ; it is evident that a coasting- 
cruise is meant. The total hours, assuming 
the day to be 12 without halts, would amount to 
72. Upon the Tanganyika I estimated the rate 
at little more than 2 knots an hour, which 
would make in round numbers 140 miles. Pro- 
tracting this course from Bahari-ni, Sadi's term- 
inus on the Eastern shore, at the rate of 3 knots 
an hour, and without allowing for the windings 
of the shore, the end would strike the entrance 
of ' Jordan Nullah,' off the * Bengal Archipelago.' 
But even 140 miles require reduction : an esti- 
mate of the mean amount of error distributed 
over the whole of Mr Wakefield's Boutes gives 
an exaggeration of 1.24 : 1 ; and of course when 



THE UKARA LAKES, 



325 



laying down the length of these distant and 
dangerous cruises exaggeration would be excess- 
ive. "We may therefore fairly assume the semi- 
circumference of the Ukara Lake at 120 miles, 
and the total circumference at 2i0. 

As regards its breadth we read (p. 310): 
' Standing on the eastern shore Sadi said he 
could descry nothing of land in a western direc- 
tion except the very faint outline of a mountain 
summit far, far away on the horizon.' This pass- 
age is valuable. The level and sandy eastern 
shore of the Ukara or Nyanja Lake about Baha- 
ri-ni, where Sadi sighted it, is in E. long. (G.) 
35^ 15'. The easternmost, that is to say, the 
nearest point of the Karagwah highlands, or, as 
Captain Speke writes it, Karague, is in E. long. 
(G.) 32° 30'. Thus the minimum width is 165 
miles, while man's vision would hardly cover a 
score. Here, again, we have room for a double in- 
stead of a single lake. When Sadi declared that 
he ' travelled 60 days (marches ?) along the shore 
without perceiving any signs of its termination,' 
he spoke wildly, as Africans will, and when he 
reported that the natives with whom he con- 
versed were unable to give him any information 
about its northern or southern limit, we can 
only infer that in those parts of the African in- 



326 



THE UKARA LAKES. 



terior neither tribes nor individuals trust them- 
selves in strange lands, especially when they 
had a chance of meeting the Wasuku. A lake 
120 direct geographical miles in length, that is 
to say, a little shorter than the Baringo is sup- 
posed to be, will amply satisfy all requirements 
in this matter. Einally, if Sadi's report be cor- 
rect, namely, that eight or nine years ago (before 
1867 ?) a large vessel with sails, and a crew of 
white egg-eaters — Africans have learnt by some 
curious process to connect Europeans with 
oophagy — navigated the waters, it is evident 
that this lake cannot be Captain Speke's Ny- 
anza, and that the visitors cannot have made it 
via his ' White Nile,' with its immense obstruc- 
tions. Eut it may be that of which he heard 
(Journal, p. 333) from the ' Kidi officers,' who 
reported a high mountain to rise behind the Asua 
(Nyarus ?) river, and the existence of a lake 
navigated by the Gallas in very large vessels. 
We now understand why King Mtesa (p. 291) 
offered to send the traveller home in one month 
by a frequented route, doubtless through the 
Wamasai and the other tribes living between the 
Nyanja and the Nyanza. Thus Irungu, Chief of 
Uganda, expressed his surprise (Journal, p. 187) 
that Captain Speke had come all the way round 



TO RESUME MR WAKEFIELD S NOTES. 327 



to Uganda Avhen he could have taken the short 
and safe direct route — across the middle of his 
lake — via Umasai and TJsoga, by which an 
Arab caravan had travelled. 

The third water is evidently the Xyanza, of 
which I first heard at Kazeh, whence Captain 
Speke was despatched on a reconnoitre between 
J uly 9th and August 25th, 1858. After return- 
ing, he reported that this water, being nearly 
flash with the surface of the level country to the 
south, bears signs of overflowing for some 13 
miles during the rains. The second expedition 
showed no traces of flood on the marshy lands to 
the north and X. West of the lake. This fact, 
combined with 400 feet difi^erence of level in the 
surface of the ' Victoria Nyanza,' speaks for it- 
self. We are justified in suspecting a fourth 
lake, along whose banks Capt. Spoke travelled 
northwards to Uganda ; and there must be more 
than one, if all his effluents be correctly laid 
down. 

Briefly to resume. Mr Wakefield's very 
valuable notes teach us — 

1. That the Barinsjo is a lake distinct from 
the ' Victoria Xyanza,' with a northern efiluent, 
the Nyarus, and therefore it is fresh water. 

2. That the Nyanja, Ukara, Ukerewe, Ga- 



328 



THE LAKE REGION, 



rawa, or Bahari ya Pili, is a long, narrow form- 
ation, perhaps 30 miles broad, with 240 miles of 
circumference, and possibly drained to the Nile 
by a navigable channel. 

3. That the Nyanza is a water, probably a 
swamp, but evidently distinct from the two men- 
tioned above, flooding the lands to the south, 
showing no signs of depth, and swelling during 
the low season of the Nile, and vice versa. 

And finally we cannot but conclude that 
the Northern and N. Western portions of the so- 
called 'Victoria Nyanza' must be divided into 
three independent broads or lakes, one of them 
marshy, reed-margined, and probably shallow, in 
order to account for the three effluents within a 
little more than 60 miles. 

KOTE. 

I have printed, as an Appendix to Volume I., 
a paper Avhich was read out by me before the 
Royal Geographical Society, on Monday, Decem- 
ber 11, 1871. It dwells at greater length upon 
the interesting theme here sketched, and it 
enters into certain philological details which 
may be interesting to students of Kisawaliili. 



CHAPTEH XI. 



TO KIWA, THE END OE THE EAST AERICAN 
EXPEDITION (1857 — 1859). 

' Perseverance, dear my lord, 
Keeps Honour bright : to have done is to hang 
Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail 
In monumental mockery.' — Tkoilus and Ceessida. 

The Zanzibar coast was, at the time of our 
return to it, in a very uncomfortable state. 
Cholera, for the first time, had swept southwards 
from Arabia, decimating the East African popu- 
lation between Unguja and Kilwa. Political 
troubles were rife, within as well as from with- 
out. Sayyid Suwayni, pretexting unpaid arrears 
of tribute, was reported to be embarking a host 
of Bedawin brigands upon five ships and sundry- 
Arab craft. It was an act of madness, with 
cholera and small-pox on board ; and, the coast 



330 



POLITICAL TROUBLES. 



not being open for provisions and water, the in- 
vaders, even if left to themselves, were safe to 
succumb by dribblets. Yet not the less were the 
Baloch stations drained of mercenaries, whilst 
7000 muskets, with an amount of ammunition 
which made the city dangerous, Avere distributed 
to the slaves and other ruffians. Daus ran down 
from Iladramaut crowded with armed adven- 
turers, all in the market to fight for the best 
pay. Sayyids Jamshid and Hamdan, two of the 
young princes, had died of small-pox, which 
killed the rich as cholera carried off the poor. 
Sayyid Barghash, another brother of the Prince 
regnant, and now his successor, becoming Yaghi 
(rebellious), made a demonstration at the Palace 
gate with a herd of black musketeers : the Suri 
Arabs, however, armed themselves, and the serv- 
iles fled into the sea, throwing away weapons and 
ammunition. Sayyid Sulayman was on the 
square, but the turbulent llarisi chiefs held a 
review of 2000 black musketeers, and 200 ' light 
bobs' carrying bows and arrows: they maintained 
an attitude of armed neutrality which threatened 
mischief to the weaker of the rival brothers. 
Trade was paralyzed, the foreign merchants lost 
severely, not less than 80 native craft from Bom- 
bay and the North were still expected at the end 



KONDUCHI. 



3:11 



of the season; and, to complete the confusion, 
the coast suddenly became subject to the action 
of ' TEmio-ration libre.' 

Despite the untoward situation, I still re- 
solved to visit Southern Zanzibar, and to explore, 
if fortune would favour us, the Xyassa, or Kilwa 
Lake. The first step was to dismiss from Kon- 
duchi the Baloch guard and the ' Sons of Ramji: ' 
the monocular Jemadar shed crocodile-tears as 
he and his mob departed, begging gunpowder; 
and my heart felt lighter than it had during many 
a day. By a casual boat, I wrote to Zanzibar for 
drugs and medical comforts, necessaries and sup- 
plies, and lastly for a vessel engaged at the Con- 
sulate to sail down along shore. 

During the six days of delay at Konduchi we 
occupied a neat hut under the care of the Di- 
vran, ' Mtu Mku Wambele ' and the good Ban- 
yan Premji. We strengthened ourselves by high 
living, by sea-baths, and by shower-baths in the 
hea^'y rain ; and we had another hard tussle with 
the hippopotamus. The nights were remarkably 
fresh and comfortable; the day-sky was milky 
white, and a glance at the cool celadon colour 
of the islet-studded sea was itself a refrigerant. 
We found nothing remarkable in the village, 
another Sa'adani : its site is the usual glaring 



332 



DR ROSCHER. 



white sand-strip, setting off tall cocoas, that wave 
in the fine sea-breeze, and mangroves bathed by 
the flood tides. The coast-colours contrast well 
with the red ochreous earth of the Mrima, two 
steep raised beaches which back the jungly flat, 
and command a view of Zanzibar Island. 

One day we were surprised by the abrupt en- 
trance of a youth, eminently North German in 
aspect, with sandy hair, smooth face, and pro- 
truding eyes, flat occiput and projecting ears. 
He announced himself as Dr Albrecht E^oscher, 
of Hamburg, and he made himself doubly wel- 
come by bringing from Zanzibar the wished-for 
supplies, letters, and newspapers — for 18 months 
Ave had not looked upon a white face save the 
Albino, or a new print in any form but that of a 
Low Church tract. 

Tlie traveller, who appeared at most 22, ap- 
plied himself forthwith to the magnetic survey, 
for which he had been engaged by the Prussian 
Government. A visit to Mozambique, and a run 
up coast, had taught him everything learnable 
about East Africa. He despised the dangers of 
climate, against which he was cautioned : having 
hitherto escaped fever, he held himself Dialaria- 
proof, and he especially derided our advice about 
not wandering over the country unarmed. He 



DR RGSCHER. 



333 



lauded to the skies his fellow-townsmau Dr 
Barth. He severely criticised Dr Livingstone ; 
he patronized, in a comical way, Herr Peter- 
mann ; he highly extolled his own book ; ^ and 
he wrote to Zanzibar — so we afterwards heard — 
a far from flattering estimate of our qualilications 
as travellers. He staved with us two davs, and 
then departed northwards, intending to make 
Mbweni, the Booamy or Bovamee of Dr Krapf, 
the village at the mouth of the Panga-ni river. 
Thence he crossed to Zanzibar Island, and, after 
scant preparations, he landed at Kilwa: in 1859 he 
marched through Uliiao upon the Kyassa water. 
He reached it after long delays, caused by almost 
constant illness, on November 19, 1859, about 
two months after Dr Livingstone, who first saAV it 
on Sept. 16. As he was walking without weapons, 
two of his four Africans shot their arrows 
into his back. This happened in S. lat. 12"" 40', 
and at a short distance from the lake's eastern 
shore. The assassins were sent in irons to Zan- 
zibar bv the chief of the countrv, wlio feared re- 
tribution, and on August 23rd, 1860, Captain 
Grant saw them beheaded outside the Port. 

^ ' Ptolemaeus und die Handelstrassen in Central- Afrika.' 
It was written before the traveller set out for Africa, and it lias 
been calmly and fairly judged by Dr Beke (Sources of the Jsile, 
p. 69). 



334 



THE CRUISE SOUTHWARD. 



On Eebmaiy 10, 1859, we set sail in the 
shabbiest of Batelas with a cabin like a large 
drawer, hot as a native lint, and fnll of vermin. 
The skipper had neglected to lay in wood and 
ballast, we heeled over unpleasantly, and the 
drinking water stood in an open cask, no joke, 
considering that the action of a special infectant 
was to be feared, and that the germs of cholera 
poison are so easily conveyed in liquids and in 
dust. Two of the ' sons of water ' at once died 
of the disease, two others were taken ill, and 
Caetano appeared to be sickening. The latter 
recovered, but after three days our crew of seven 
was reduced to three, including one, Tauflki, who 
survived the attack, and who regained health at 
Kilwa. We could do nothing but bury the un- 
fortunates, so sudden and foudroyant were the at- 
tacks, and the scanty personnel was not good for 
much amongst bad reefs. 

Our course lay past the settlements of Msa- 
sani and Magogoni and tlie little Mbwezi river 
to Mbuamfiji, ' rain water,' in the Mission map 
called Mburomaji, and vulgarly Boromaji. The 
little port- village with jungle rolling up to the 
walls, and anchorage defended by the Sinda 
Islets, is a favourite entrance to the East African 
interior. South of this point the coast people 



MAFIYAH. 



335 



are called Watu Ava Rufiji, or Eufiji folk. The 
next niglit was passed in an open roadstead off 
Rasi ya Ndege — Bird Point — the S. Western 
portal of the Zanzibar channel, a well-wooded red 
rise. We then coasted along a low and forested 
shore sighting Ea'as Kimbizi and Point Pnna, 
which can hardly be called Point or Cape. 
Khwale (partridge) Island, a link in the long 
chain of little ' inches ' ^ which rnns parallel with 
the coast to Kilwa, showed the usual physio- 
gnomy, coralline ledges, yellow sands, and tufted 
verdant trees : the pretty little patch is said to 
abound in hippos. Koma, the next inhabited 
islet, gave us a few cocoas, but no game ; the 
people, serviles from Kilwa, would not answer 
our questions without bakhshish. The next day 
saw us fighting against a strong northerly cur- 
rent, and a sharp struggle was required to make 
the Kisima-ni (the well of) Mafiyah.^ 

The Avatering-place lies on the westernmost 
point of Mafiyah, in our maps Monfia, and not 
to be pronounced with Mr Cooley ' Mofiji;' it is 

1 The okl Portuguese travellers (Eezende and others) men- 
tion the Islets of Auxoly, Coa, and Zibondo ; I could hear no- 
thing of these names : they are probably corruptions, Auxoly 
for Chole, Coa for Koma, and Zibondo for Kibundo. 

2 Kisima (Arab. Tawi) is opposed to Shimo, a water-pit 
(Arab. Hufreh). 



336 



THE RUFIJI RIVER. 



the longest island in the Southern Archipelago 
of the Zangian Saas, and ranking after Zanzibar 
and Pemba. The anchorage was smooth and 
deep, allowing the largest ships to ride in safety, 
and the abysses around it are as usual un- 
fathomed. Pits a few hundred yards from the 
sea supply the casks with water of a quality some- 
what better than usual. The tree-clad island is 
flat and sandy; its growth is by no means so 
luxuriant as that of its greater sisters, and the 
population appears to be scanty. We saw no 
wild animals but a black monkey and a guinea- 
fowl. The mean breadth of the Manche is here 
9 miles,^ and the bottom is said to be very foul. 

Opposite Mafiyah lies the Delta of the Rufiji, 
Lufiji, or Ufiji river, the Loffih, Luffia, or Loffia 
of older maps, which was made by them to issue 
from a great lake : it is a reduced copy of the Zam- 
beze farther south, and a waterway worth explor- 
ing, as possibly the future high road of nations 
into Eastern Africa. The people declare that 
boats can ascend it for a month, and larger craft 
for a week — this appears, however, doubtful. 
The stream, then flooding, overflowed its banks, 

^ CaptaiQ Guillain (i. Ill) says 10 miles or 100 stadia. In 
i. 1G9 he writes ' Mafia n'est separee de la cote que par uii canal 
de 3^ lieues, partagc encore par una petite ile intermediary.' 



THE RUFIGI RIVER, 



337 



and its line was marked by heavy purple nimbi 
wdth hangings and curtains of grey rain. We 
anchored off Sumanga, an open roadstead, about 
four miles south of the embouchure : here the 
land is low, and the village, on account of the 
high tides, is built a good mile from the water. 
It contains some large huts, and the people sup- 
plied us with milk, rice, sugar, and custard apples. 
Cattle, though plentiful, is subject, they say, to 
murrain, and must often change air. Here pro- 
bably the Tsetse fly is common, as at Kilwa, where 
I found a fine specimen, afterwards deposited in 
the British Museum. At that time its habitat 
Avas unduly limited northward to the Valley of 
the Zambeze river : in after years I met with 
it upon the coast of Guinea, and MM. Antinori 
and Piaggia observed it amongst the Jurs of the 
Upper Nile, whilst Sir Samuel Baker saw it in 
the country of the ' Latookas,' 110 miles east of 
Gondokoro (N. lat. 4° 55'). It will probably be 
found scattered in patches, especially of lowland 
virgin-forest, throughout Intertropical Africa. 

M. Guillain, again by solely considering dis- 
tance, would place Bhapta, ' the last mart of 
Azania,' at the 'embouchure de TOufidji ;' while 
the older geographers prefer Kilwa. Ptolemy, I 
have said, mentions three places of that name, to 

VOL. II, 22 



338 



THE RUFIGI RIVER. 



the north a river in E. long. 72° and S. lat. 7°; 
a city in E. long. 71° and S. lat. 7°, therefore lying 
up stream and one degree to the west, and lastly 
the Ehapta Promontory, in E. long. 73" 30' 20" 
and S. lat. 8° 20' 5''. I believe them, for reasons 
given in vol. I. chap, v., to be the Rufiji river. 
Old Kilwa, and Cape Delgado. Local tradition 
preserves no trace of an emporium lying up the 
stream, nor would so exposed a locality have been 
chosen by the older traders, who invariably pre- 
ferred the shelter of islands. Dr Livingstone 
(near Lake Bangweolo, South Central Africa, 
July, 1868) proposes the Rovuma— so he writes 
the word E^ufuma— as the probable position of 
Ptolemy's river Ehapta. This has the same disad- 
vantage as the Eufiji — it places an important 
point or points at an unimportant site. 

We had no sweeps to make head against the 
river, even for a few miles, and all dissuaded us 
from attempting exploration at this season. Ac- 
cording to the Banyan Jetlia, who declared that 
he had lived 20 years hereabouts, the stream takes 
its name from the Eufiji village, a little way up 
its course. He moreover asserted that some 15 
days ago a Banyan had been plundered when 
travelling to the interior, that the Washenzi 
(savages) were dangerous, and nowise under the 



CnOLE ISLET. 



339 



authority of Zanzibar; and, finally, that white 
men would want letters from the Wall of Kilwa, 
addressed to three Diwans in the Eufiji village 
B'anas Hasi, Kangayya and Puriyya, with two 
up-country sultans, Monga and Dumbo. 

The next feature was the low islet of Chole, 
rich in cattle and hippos : here the Mtepe- 
craft is superiorly made, as are also the Chinese- 
like dish covers (Kawa) of dyed and plaited 
straw. It was followed by the comparatively 
large and inhabited island, Songo-Songo — the 
Songa-Songa of M. Eebmann. Here I heard one 
of the men use a Persian phrase with Kisawahili 
termination — ' Tumbak nisti' (for nist), there is 
no tobacco : it reminded me of a Kentish woman 
threatening to ' frap ' her child. Thence about 
noon (Eeb. 15) we sighted Kilwa Kivinjya. It 
lies at bottom of a broad shallow bay broken by 
juttings from the land, and backed by high roll- 
ing ground, cleared for mashamba and orange or- 
chards. The mangrove-belted sea ebbs about half 
a mile, and flows right up to the buildings : we ran 
close in, and before the tide was out we propped 
ourselves, like our neighbours, with strong poles. 

Captain Owen learned, considerably to his 
mortification, that there were two Kilwas — he 
might have said half-a-dozen. The name, by the 



340 



KILWA. 



people generally called Kirwa, but never Kulwa 
as in Ibn Batuta — probably a clerical error — 
was originally applied to the island ; now it is that 
of a district, not of a place. Hence we find in 
Abu Said (13th cent.) the Island of Kilwa con- 
taining three cities, all built upon the banks of 
rivers. The settlements are separated by Khirdn, 
or salt-water inlets, stretching through mangrove- 
swamps, which often extend many miles in- 
land. Native vessels enter and quit them with 
the flow, and remain high and dry at the ebb, 
whilst cutting wood and making salt. Upon the 
N. West of the Bay, distant about five miles, is 
Majinjera, streamlet and settlement, of which Mr 
Cooley erroneously says, ' It is the island com- 
monly known as Kilwa.' ^ It is separated by a 

1 Note to p. 20. In p. 19 (ibid.) we read, ' The country 
near the mouth of the Lufiji is occupied bj the Mazingia.' No 
such name is known, however ; it would mean, if anything, 
* Water of the Path (Maji ya Njia),' not, as he renders it, 'the 
road along the water.' Even then Maji Njia is hardly grammati- 
cal : the genitive sign can be omitted, especially in poetry, as — 

* Mimi siki, Mimi siki M'ana simba,' 

* I fear not, I fear not the lion's whelp ; ' 

but the * water path ' as a P.N. is not Kisawahili. The word 
is evidently a confusion with Kilwa Majinjera ; and the ' Den- 
karenko ' tribe is unknown as the ' Mazingia.' Another mistake 
of another kind is talking of a * Surat (for Suri) Arab,' some- 
thing like a Kussian Englishman. Such, however, is the indi- 
vidual who lectures Dr Livingstone on Sichwawa and teaches 
me the elements of Kisawahili. 



THE KILWA RIVER. 



341 



promontory from its neighbours, Ugoga, Ma- 
yungi-yungi, and Kivafi or Kivavi : hence doubt- 
less the Cuavo of Pigafetta, the ' Eiume Coavo 
che sbocca a Quiloa created by Giovanni Botero, 
and the Suabo supposed to have a common origin 
with the Zambezean Shire. It is the Geographer 
of N'yassi's imaginary Quavi, or river of Kilwa, 
a branch of the Lufiji, and ' reported to descend 
from the Z^be, that is Ziwa in Sawahili, or the 
Lake.' But unhappily there is no Kilwa river, 
any more than a ' Mombas river.' The fabled 
stream is a mere ' Khor,' like that near the Ma- 
yungi-yungi village,^ and a surface drain running 
for a few miles. The next and the most important 
is Kilwa Kivinjya, or Mgongeni, in the map Kib- 
endji, and Kevingi in the ' Geographer,' who 
erroneously calls it Old Kilwa, whereas it was 
built (in S. lat. 8° 42' 59") by the Islanders when 
flying from the fleet of the late Sayyid Said. 
Adjoining this to the south is Tekwiri (not 
Tekiri), the Tekewery of Owen and the Tikewery 
of Horsburg : here are the ruins of an older 
Kilwa. Lastly, and about 12 direct geographical 
miles farther south (S. lat. 8° 57' 12"), is Kilwa 

^ After leaving Kilwa we heard of a ' Nullah ' entering the 
bay, a long fissure 4 to 5 feet broad and many fathoms deep, 
which communicates with a grotto haunted by huge snakes and 
genii (Jinus). 



342 



KILWA KIVINJTA. 



Kisiwa-ni, the island upon which remnants of 
mosques and other buildings are found : the Geo- 
grapher confounds it with Tekiri. Such are the 
half-dozen settlements which have in turn been 
known as Kilwa, a name confined in modern 
days to Kivinjya. 

Kivinjya, the settlement, is surrounded by 
mangrove-swamps, with scatters of tall cocoas, 
which the wind snubs. The long narrow line, 
disposed somewhat in Brazilian style, shows 
nothing but country huts, except a large ma- 
sonry-built Custom House called a Port. There 
is a bazar garnished with the usual shops, which 
supply amongst other things Epsom salts, empty 
bottles, peppermint water, and Eau de Cologne. 
The prices were high — here the rupee becomes a 
dollar: we were asked 0.75 cents for a common 
umbrella worth 0.30, and $2.50 for 12 cubits of 
domestics. Provisions were scarcely procurable, 
— two ships lying in the offing had raised lean 
chickens from six to three per dollar ; sheep are 
here brought from the Pufiji river, goats from 
the Washenzi of the interior, and black cattle 
from Chole Island. 

The once wealthy and important trade of 
Kilwa is now in the hands of a few Arabs, 53 
Hindus, and about 100 Hindostanis — Kojahs, 



KILWA KIVINJYA. 



343 



Mehmans, and Borahs. Of the Banyans none had 
died by cholera : the Indian Moslems had lost 
11 or 12. An old Hindostani kindly housed ns 
in a neat, clean dwelling with matted floor, white 
mattresses rolled up in the corners, black-wood 
writing-desks in the niches, pictures of men 
with gigantic moustaches on the walls, an old 
wooden clock still ticking, and two noble tusks 
of Uhiao ivory, bearing the purchaser's mark. 
The tenement was not so pleasant outside : it 
was invested with a mass of filth, the sea washed 
up impurities to the very palisades, and farther 
out the bay -water was covered with a brown scum 
of sickening taint. We were presently visited by 
the very civil and obliging Wali, Sayf bin Ali, an 
old traveller to Unyamwezi : the people being 
greatly demoralized, he ordered our lodgings to 
be guarded at night. Yarok, the Jemadar of 
Baloch, also confided to us his desire of becoming 
C. 0. : the step was vacant by cholera, and many 
of his men had lost the number of their mess. 

After seeing and smelling Kilwa I did not 
wonder that cholera during the last 15 days had 
killed off half the settlement. Accordinsr to the 
people, it was the first attack ever known to East 
Africa: that which decimated Maskat in July, 
1821, did not extend to Zanzibar. They agreed 



344 



THE CHOLERA. 



that it came down in vessels from Zanzibar : all 
held it highly infectious, as indeed under the 
circumstances it certainly was ; hands would not 
ship on hoard our Batela, and at first no one 
would even visit us. They declared the disease 
to be dying out, yet the wealthier classes still 
clung to their mashamba, where the water is 
good and clean as it is filthy in the towns ; and 
hysenas walked the streets at night. 

Accustomed to face cholera since my child- 
hood, I never saw even in Italy, in India, or in 
Sind, such ravages as it committed at Kilwa. 
Soil and air seemed saturated with poison, the 
blood appeared predisposed to receive the in- 
fluence, and the people died like flies. Numbers 
of patients were brought to us, each with the 
ominous words, ' He has the death ; ' and none 
hardly had energy to start or wince at what 
would under other conditions have frightened 
them out of their senses. They sometimes 
walked two miles to see us ; the only evil 
symptoms were dull congested eyes, cold breath, 
and a thready feeble pulse, which in the worst 
cases almost refused to beat. After the visit 
they would return home on foot, lie down and 
expire in a collapse, without cramp sor convul- 
sions, emesis, or other eff'ort of nature to relieve 



THE CHOLERA. 



345 



herself. Life seemed to have lost all its hold 
upon them. Of course we were the only doctors, 
and our small stock of ether and brandy were 
soon exhausted ; the natives, however, treated 
the complaint sensibly enough with opium and 
Mvinyo, spirits locally distilled, and did not, like 
the Anglo-Indian surgeon, murder patients with 
mercury, the lancet, and the chafing-dish. 

There were hideous sights about Kilwa at 
that time. Corpses lay in the ravines, and a 
dead negro rested against the walls of the Custom 
House. The poorer victims were dragged by the 
leg along the sand, to be thrown into the ebbing 
waters of the bay ; those better off were sewn 
up in matting, and were carried down like ham- 
mocks to the same general depot. The smooth 
oily water was dotted with remnants and frag- 
ments of humanity, black and brown when 
freshly thrown in, patched, mottled, and parti- 
coloured when in a state of half pickle, and 
ghastly white, like scalded pig, when the pig- 
mentum nigrum had become thoroughly macer- 
ated. The males lay prone upon the surface, 
diving as it were, head downwards, when the 
retiring swell left them in the hollow water; 
the women floated prostrate with puffed and 
swollen breasts — I have lately seen this included 



346 



HORRID SIGHTS. 



amongst 'vulgar errors.' Limbs were scattered 
in all directions, and heads lay like pebbles upon 
the beach : here I collected the 24 skulls after- 
wards deposited in the Museum of the Royal 
College of Surgeons, and which it is said (Journal 
Anthro. Soc. No. 28, xli.) Professor Busk is 
now investigating. They were gathered at ran- 
dom; doubtless they belonged to both sexes, and 
they represented chiefly the slave population. 
The latter is here mainly recruited by the 
Wahiao, the Wagao, the Wamwera, the Wang- 
indo, the Makonda, the Wakomango, the Wad- 
oka, the Wakhwinde, and the other tall stout 
races lying between Kilwa and the Nyassa Lake. 
It will not be easy to forget one spectacle, — the 
lower portion of some large strong man, whose 
legs had parted at the knees, came again and 
again, persistent as the flood, up to the very 
walls of our dwelling, and bowing with the 
ripple, it seemed to claim acquaintance with us. 

There was no subsequent attack of cholera on 
the Zanzibar coast till early 1870, when one- 
third of the native population was reported to 
have been swept away. In six weeks, besides 
13 out of the score which composed the Euro- 
pean and American residents at Unguja, 10,000 
people perished in the city, 30,000 on the Island : 



SECOND ATTACK OF CHOLERA. 



347 



at Kilwa there were 200 daily deaths amongst 
the slaves, and the survivors found no purchasers 
at $1 a head. This visitation is supposed to have 
come from the interior, appearing first at Pan- 
ga-ni; yet, curious to relate, it again went 
inland via Bagamoyo, and extended to Ugogo, 
where ivory was left on the road and caravans 
were stopped by 'the death.' 

Kilwa makes from £5000 to £20,000 per 
annum by the tax upon wild slaves. The market 
is supplied chiefly by the tribes living about the 
Nyassa Lake, the Wahiao, as I have said, being 
preferred to all others, and some may march for 
a distance of 400 miles. After this long journey 
they reach the coast where they exported in 
the following numbers, according to the Custom 
House of Kivinjya : — 



1862-3 exported to Zanzibar 


and elsewhere- 




13,000 


5500 


1863-4 


14,000 


3500 


1864-5 


13,821 


3000 


1865-6 


18,344 


4000 


1866-7 


17,538 


4500 




76,703 


20,500 




20,500 





Total 97,203 exported from Kilwa to 
Zanzibar in five years. 

Tear ending August 23, 1869, exported, 14,944. 



348 



' FREE emigration: 



The next process is either the short voyage in 
Daus or native craft to Zanzibar Island, or the 
long passage to Turkish Arabia, the Red Sea, 
Persia, and the N. Zangian coast. At present 
they make some half the journey without being 
molested by British cruisers, but this portion of 
the treaty will probably be modified. Slaves 
liberated from the Daus were — and are still — 
taken to the Seychelles, a dependency of the 
Mauritius, or to Aden and Bombay, at a heavy 
cost to the Imperial Exchequer. The mortality of 
the captives on the march, throughout Africa as far 
as my knowledge extends, is immensely overrated, 
except in case of cholera or small-pox, at 1 : 5, 
or even 1 : 10. The fact is, that the mortality on 
the Kilwa-Nyassa line is excessive, because the 
negroes fight, and the ^ chattels' run away. Where 
I am personally acquainted with it the loss of 
slaves on the down-march does not exceed that 
of freemen, and the latter when poor have less 
chance than the valuable property. 

In the outer roads, at the time of our visit, 
lay a Trench six-gun schooner, TEstafette, with 
loose rigging, no flamme, and only one white 
face visible on deck. ' Frenchman good only to 
steal men/ said the people of Kilwa : the vessel, 
however, was escorting a ' free emigrant ship,' 



THE FREE EMIGRANT. 



349 



in plain English, a slaver, which rode three miles 
out, and which was taking in ' casimir noir ' for 
Bourbon. Many of the crew braved the danger 
of cholera, and came on shore. I saw the captain, 
and was not a little surprised when recognizing 
him some years afterwards on his own quarter- 
deck durinor a vovasre to . He hinted 

that the spec, had been of the best that he had 
ever made, and no wonder. During the death- 
in-life above described Banyans and Baloch, 
Arabs and Africans, all began to sell their sur- 
viving slaves, and an A. B. adult could be bought 
for a maximum of $6 — 'what a price for the 
noblest work of God ! ' Kidnapping was also 
common, — three men were shown to me who had 
lately escaped from Angazijeh or Great Comoro. 

A few words upon 'free labour,' the latest 
and most civilized form of slavery in East and 
West Africa. The Imperial Government, doubt- 
ing nothing, authorized their colonies of Bour- 
bon, Mayotte, and Nosi-be to import from East 
Africa the Coolies, whom we export from West- 
ern India to the Mauritius. The plan was weak : 
constrained free labour is a contradiction, and 
the system was foully perverted by the people of 
Bourbon, at that time the least worthy, perhaps, 
of the colonies of Prance. They required a total 



350 



NEW FORM OF SLAVERY. 



of 100,000 head to begin with, and a biennial 
item of 10,000 for contingencies. Within 18 
months about 47,000 were embarked for the 
African coasts, and the free emigration was 
managed thus wise. Slave ow^ners taught their 
chattels a nod of assent to every question pro- 
j)Osed, and brought them before the Erench 
agent, who, in his own tongue, asked the candi- 
date if he w^as willing to serve as a free labourer 
for so many years. A ' bob ' and a scratch upon 
a contract-paper consigned the emigrant to a 
ship anchored so far out that he could not save 
himself by swimming. The freemen sometimes 
threw themselves overboard, with the idea that 
once in the sea they would be carried back to 
their country : under these circumstances, the 
older slavers used mostly to shoot them in the 
water. The modern style of levanting was tried 
at Aden with great success by the Somal, who 
swim like fishes. The ouvrier libre was at once 
put in irons till the hour for sailing came. The 
usual price of slaves being on the coast $7 to $10, 
the agents satisfied the trader by paying $14 : the 
scruples of the Portuguese governors were quieted 
by the usual fee, equivalent to the value of the pur- 
chase, and four additional crowns were distributed 
amongst the Custom House officers. Thus the total 



FREE SLAVES. 



351 



price of the engage freeman was §32 (=£6 5s.). 
Arrived at Bourbon, Messieurs les Sauvages were 
politely informed that they were no longer slaves, 
and thev were at once knocked down to the 
highest bidder. They were worked 15 or 16 
hours a day; their pay was $2 per mensem, hardly 
sufficient to support life ; and when they fell sick 
their miserable pittance was cut. The expiration 
of the engagement-period found them heavily in 
debt, without the hope of working off their lia- 
bilities ; and seven years of hard labour at Bour- 
bon might be considered almost certain death. 
"When the idea of travailleui's libres was detailed 
to the Savvid Said, he treated it as a mauvaise 
plaisanterie : the coast people also unanimously 
rejected the liberal offer of free men becoming 
slaves for §2 a month. The French Consul, M. 
de BeKgny, was at first strongly opposed to the 
system: a few weeks at Bourbon changed, it 
seems, his opinion. His successor, M. Ladislas 
Cochet, energetically and conscientiously rejected 
all compromise. Bourbon might easily supply 
herself with Coolies, as the Mauritius does, by 
paying 81 per mensem, by treating the labourer 
Avell, and by ordering him a passage home after 
three or four years, whether in debt or not. It 
was, however, I believe, a mistake on om- part 



352 



COOLIES. 



to purchase the putting down of this system by- 
permitting the French to enlist Coolies in Hin- 
dostan. This coimtry wants every hand born 
within its limits : strangers viewing the densely 
crowded ports, the capitals, the chief cities and 
their neighbourhoods, are apt to believe the vast 
and wealthy peninsula over-populated, when it 
abounds in tracts of primeval forest, through 
which a man may march a fortnight without 
seeing a human being. Our first duty is evi- 
dently to the land which belongs to us. 

I was the more careful minutely to report the 
free emigration system on account of an egre- 
gious deceit successfully passed off upon one of 
our officials. In 1856 a certain M. Lambert, 
agent at Aden for the house of Messrs Menon, 
Lambert, et Com^e^ of the Mauritius Steam Navi- 
gation Company, persuaded the Political Re- 
sident, Lieut.-Colonel Coglilan, that Zanzibar 
annually exported 49,000 slaves to Bcrberah, 
Zayla, Tajurrah, and the ports of Arabia and 
Southern Asia. This more than doubled the 
greatest number annually imported into the 
Island: and the latter no longer publicly ex- 
ported slave-cargoes, although many ran away to 
seek fortune in India, whilst far more were kid- 
napped by the northern Arabs. In fact, it con- 



MADAME IDA PFEIFFER, 



358 



foancied Zanzibar Island with the whole coast of 
Eastern Africa, whose ports, especially those 
about Kilwa, were supported almost wholly by 
the slave trade. Lieut. -Colonel Coghlan had 
been long enough at Aden to know that Berbe- 
rah, Zayla, and Tajurrah are slave-exporting as 
well as importing markets, and that every native 
craft sailing up coast always declares itself to be 
from 'the Sawahil,' or, if that word be not 
understood, from Zanzibar. At the time when 
my first report was written an agent of the same 
Messrs Lambert was waiting passage at Kili- 
ma-ni with 1000 travailleurs libres : many of the 
wretches had died of the famine which had de- 
vastated the southern coast, and the speculator 
complained that he had lost 820,000 to §30,000. 
The same M. Lambert, in 1857, visited Tana- 
narive, persuading poor Madame Ida Pfeiffer to 
accompany him : his object was not so much to 
'depose,'^ as to dispose of, the old Queen, who 
was to be succeeded by a person more amenable 
to Christianity and Erench influence : the pre- 
mature discovery of the plot caused the death 
of the lady who twice journeyed round the world. 

1 Page xliii. of Mr E. Gr. Eavenstein's Introduction to Dr 
Krapf s Travels, Eesearches, and Missionary Labours (London : 
Triibner. 1860). 

TOL. II. 23 



354 



CLIMATE OF KILWA. 



She had proposed accompanying me to the Lake 
Eegions ; but to travel with a grandmother 
would have been too compromising. Another 
grandmother volunteered from India ; in fact, it 
appeared then my fate to have fallen upon 
grandmothers. 

The ' emigration ' had been strictly forbidden 
by the Imperial Government between her colo- 
nies and Madagascar. But 'Delhi is distant.' 
Lately (1857) a Bourbon ship, commanded by a 
Prench captain, touched at Boyannah Bay to 
embark 100 engages, and took on board some 87 
Sakalawas, who had been stolen from the in- 
terior. These men rose up whilst the com- 
mander was on shore completing his tale, mur- 
dered the crew, beheaded and quartered the 
captain's son, a mere boy, ran the - ship upon a 
reef, and escaped. Even since that massacre 
another Erench ship from Nosi-be sailed for 
Boyannah Bay and its ill-omened vicinity. 

The climate of Kilwa is bad and depressing : 
the people appeared to suffer from severe sores, 
and their aspect was eminently unhealthy — 
want of cleanliness is undoubtedly part cause. 
All complain that the air is dry^ and costive, 

^ This must be understood by comparison : the vegetation 
shows much humidity, but perhaps not so excessive as upon 
the coast further north. 



CRUISE SOUTH. 



355 



producing frequent agues and fevers, that sleep 
is heavy, not sound, and that in the morning 
they awake unrefreshed. Our small ailments 
increased, and my companion's sight hecame 
much weaker. After a fine cool breeze, like that 
of the S. West monsoon, on the night of Eebruary 
17 burst a furious storm, with large-dropped 
rains, more violent than during the regular wet 
season ; the lightning was unusually j)ink (the 
effect of excessive nitrogen ?), the thunder seemed 
to roll close upon the roof, and the wind blew in 
the bamboo lattices of our dwelling-place. The 
outburst subsided on the morning of the 18th ; 
the sky, however, remained overcast, and did 
not allow an observation of the sun. On the 
next day there were two fierce gales, with raw 
gusts strong enough to swamp a boat, and when 
they ended the weather became close and muggy 
with occasional chilling blasts. Heavy clouds 
ran before the wind, and steady rain set in from 
the south : the change of weather seemed to 
modify the cholera, and the health of the town at 
once improved. 

On Eebruary 20 we proceeded to inspect the 
ruins of ancient Kilwa Kisima-ni. A fine crisp 
breeze carried us out of the fetid harbour, 
through the floating carcases, and the larger 



356 



KILWA ISLAND. 



craft that lay about a mile and a half from 
the land. The bay is here planted with four 
or five extensive Wigo, or fish wiers, stockades 
submerged at high tide, and detaining the fish 
when the waters ebb. The people of Kilwa 
are ichthyophagists, and the slaves usually bring 
the supply at 3 p. m. in their little Xgarawas ; 
now, however, the fishermen are dead, and the 
citizens avoid eating what is supposed to prey 
upon Mizoga, or carrion. 

We hugged the shore to get dead water : 
here, according to the pilots, during the N. East 
monsoon there is a current setting to the east, 
and this trend, during the S. West monsoon, 
is deflected to the N. West. After expending 
six hours upon the 12.25 miles south of mainland 
Kilwa, we reached the Island, and landed on the 
N. Western side to inspect the Port. An inscrip- 
tion over the entrance dates it from Muharram 
23, A. H. 1231, therefore only 44 years old 
(1857) ; but evidently, like those of Unguja and 
Chak Chak, it is a Portuguese foundation re- 
stored. The building is now a mere dickey, with 
three shells of towers standing, and the fourth 
clean gone ; the bastions are crenellated in the 
Arab fashion, and one has a port-hole for cannon. 
A few long iron carronades, possibly Lusitanian, 



KILWA ISLAND. 



357 



lay upon the ground, and the entrance was 
shaded by a noble ' Persian Almond,' large 
leaved as the Almendreiras (Sterculise) which 
adorn Pernambuco.^ Huge sycamores and tama- 
risks were scattered around, and the luxuriant 
vegetation had in places breached the defences ; 
the trees shaded the huts, and the carpeted 
earth benches upon which the Baloch garrison 
lolled and played at Bao — cups and counters. 

As the next morning was windless, we set out 
in a four-oared boat to visit the western shore of 
the Island. The latter is a low flat breakwater of 
sand and coralline about five miles long, defend- 
ing a fine deep sea-arm, land-locked on both 
sides : the entrance is from east to west. The 
northern arm has only seven to eight feet depth, 
ships therefore must prefer Pactolus Gap be- 
tween Kilwa Island and Sons^o Mnara. On the 
Barr el Moli, or mainland at the bottom of the 
bay to the south, is the Mavuji Creek, so called 
from the district through which it passes, and 
higher up, where hippopotami are numerous, it 
receives the Mtera streamlet. Ten days' march- 
ing southwards (about 120 direct geographical 
miles) lead to the llufuma river.^ The path 

1 The Highlands of the Brazil, i. 370. 

have exphiined the hitter, like Eufii and Eufiita, to have 
been derived from Ku fa, to die (Memoir on the Lake Eegions, 



358 



KILWA ISLAND. 



crosses ' Kitarika/ a ridge of highland, to which 
extend the plantations of the Shirazi Wasa- 
wahili, who are here mixed with the Wamachinga 
trihe. 

We found the shallow waters oif the Island 
shore lined with "Wigos, weeds, and mangroves, 
in which sandy hreaks represented the old 
Bandars or ports. Southwards, at the hottom 
of the hay, appeared the islet of Sanje Kati, and 
opposite lay the Mlango, or gate where the 
depth diminishes from 80 to 6 fathoms, and 
leads to Sanje Majoma. This may he the Changa 
of the Kilwa Chronicle, whose ' King ' Matata 
Mandelima expelled in early days Daud, the 
Sultan of Kilwa. We then landed again at a 
gap in the verdure, and ascending a slope of 
coralline rock, smooth near the water and rough 
ahove, we reached the sandy shore-line, and 
thence, turning south through trees and grass, 
we came upon the ruins. 

The most remarkahle are the remnants 

p. 44). This Eufuma is the Livuma (or ' gut ' ) of Mr Cooley 
(Geography, &c., p. 15). What can he mean by ' going from 
Kilwa to Jao (Uhyao), the traveller reaches the Livuma in 
25 to 30 days ' ? There is hardly a bee-line of 2° between 
Kilwa and the mouth of the Rufuma. And what may be 
* Lukelingo, the capital of lao ' ? — any relation to the ' town 
Zanganica ' ? It is probably the Lukeringo district and 
stream falling into the eastern waters of the Nyassa Lake. 



nuiNS. 



359 



of tlie Xablicini mosque, Avhicli, blackened and 
decayed, represents the 366 of Kilwa Island in 
her day of pride : the well-cut gateway, the 
Mihrab decorated with Persian tiles, and the 
vestiges of ghaut-steps, and masonry lining the 
shore, showed a considerable amount of civiliza- 
tion. Around it lay the tombs of the Sliirazi 
Shayklis, shaped like those of Zanzibarian Mnazi 
Moyya, and strewed with small water-washed 
pebbles. This is an ancient custom of the 
country : a few days after the decease small 
stones are washed, perfumed, and sun-dried ; 
finally, they are strewed with prayers upon the 
tomb. Some travellers have imagined that they 
take the place of the defunct's rosary, which in old 
days was devoted to this purpose : it appears to 
me simply the perpetuation of a Bedawi practice 
which dates from the remotest antiquity. As 
usual, inscriptions, those landmarks of history, 
were wanting. The large old town beyond was 
even more ruinous than Changa Kduuii, near 
Mtangata, and vegetation occupied every dwell- 
ing : one of the mosques is said to have had 360 
columns, of which we did not see a vestige — the 
trees had filled and buried them all. Another 
Msikiti (Masjid) stood deep in mangroves and was 
flooded by every high tide : here the islet is sink- 



360 



BUINS. 



ing, and it may return to its original condition, 
a group of three reefs, the southernmost being 
Songo Mnara. The Shirazi fort was a parallelo- 
gram about 500 feet each way, with a curtain 
loop-holed for musketry, and square bastions — 
lodgings for the garrison — at the angles : the 
entrance was high, the northern wall was breached, 
and the interior preserved a dry masonry-revetted 
well, 40 feet deep by 2 across. Of these there 
are several on the Island : drinking water, how- 
ever, is usually drawn from pits which are higher 
than sea-level. The Governor's palace, a double- 
storied building with torn roof and rafters pro- 
jecting from the Avails, seemed to contain only 
corpses indecently buried in shallow graves : it 
resembled the relics about Tongo-ni, and doubtless 
the architects were of the same race. lulwa, we 
are told, was a mass of wooden huts for some 200 
years, till the reign of the Amir Sulayman Ha- 
san, who, 198 to 200 years after Sulayman bin Ha- 
san, built it of stone, embellished it with mosques, 
and strengthened it with forts and towers of 
coralline and lime. 

The cultivators of the many Mdshambd prefer 
to sleep upon the mainland, yet here there is no 
mud : the air is said to be far purer than that of 
modern Kilwa, and the only endemic is a mild 



LEGENDS. 



3G1 



Mkungum — ague and fever. One of tlie Eungwi or 
peasants welcomed ns to liis hut, and some twenty 
of his neighbours crowded to ' interview ' us, and 
to sell cocoas at the rate of 30 per dollar. They 
declared that the cholera had been verv destruc- 
tive, but that its violence had lately abated : they 
could not supply us with milk because the herds- 
men were dead. They boasted that none of 
their race had mixed with Muhadimo or servile 
Wasawahili, and Avithout being uncivil, they 
were free, and by no means shy, evidently 
holding that maitre charbonnier est maire chez 
lui. 

In view of the ruins they recounted to us 
their garbled legendary history. The Island was 
originally inhabited by the Wahiao savages, from 
whom the present race partly descends, and 
Songo Mnara Avas occupied by the Wadubuki, a 
Moslem clan. These Avere succeeded by the 
Nabhani or Ghafiri Arabs, the builders of the 
mosque just visited, and in the days of Ibn 
Batuta (14th cent.) v/e find that ' the Sultan of 
Oman was of the tribe of Azud, son of El Ghaus, 
Avho is known by the name of Abu Mohammed, 
son of Xabhan.' They died out, however, and 
left the land once more to the Washenzi. Then 
came the rule of the Wagemu, especially the 



3G2 



KILWA CHRONICLE. 



Wasongo, a tribe of Shirazis.^ A certain Shaykb. 
Yusuf from Sliangaya^ bought land from Napendu, 
the heathen headman, by spreading it over with 
cloth, built the old fort, won the savage's 
daugliter, slew his father-in-law, and became the 
sire of a lom^ race of Shirazi ' Kins^s of the 
Zinj.' 

The history of Kilwa is probably better known, 
thanks to its chronicle found by the Portuguese, 
than any place on the East coast of Africa. It 
is the usual document of Moslems and Easterns, 
amongst whom the man reigns, a roster of rulers, 

^ This is probably a confusion with the legend of Ali bin 
Hasan, the Shirazi chief, who, according to the ' Kilwa Chro- 
nicle ' (De Barros, 1st Decade of Asia, viii. 4, 5), occupied 
Kilwa in our 11th century. There may have been a second 
emigration from Shangaya after the 14th century, but the tale 
of the cloth is suspicious. Cloth, however, has played every- 
where upon this coast the part of gold and silver. Sofala was 
anciently a monopoly of Makdishu, which traded with it for 
gold on condition of sending every year a few young men to 
improve the * Katir' race, the latter highly valuing the compar- 
atively white blood. A fisherman of Kilwa l)aving been carried 
by the currents to the S. Eastern Gold Coast, reported this 
state of affairs to Daud, 10th Shirazi Sultan of Kilwa. This 
chief succeeded jn getting the rich trade into his own hands by 
oliering as many pieces of cloth as the youths sent by the 
people of Makdishu, and by also supplying emigrants to marry 
the daughters of the savages. 

2 The Eev. Mr Wakefield (loc. cit. p. 312) calls this place 
Shungwaya, and states that it is a district between Goddoma 
and Kauma (Wanyika-land); whilst his authority, Sadi, declares 
it to be the original home of all the Wasegeju. 



KILWA ANNALS. 



363 



with a long string of their battles, marches, and 
sudden dethronings. Kilwa was to Southern 
what Mombasah was to Northern Zanzibar, a 
centre of turmoil and trouble. Pounded in 
our 10th century, and probably upon a far older 
site, its rule eventually extended northwards to 
Mombasah, others say to Melinde, and south to 
the gold regions about Sofala. The first European 
visitor was Pedralves Cabral, the accidental dis- 
coverer of the Brazil : he anchored here on July 
26, 1500. Tlie great port was then ruled by a 
certain Sultan Ibrahim, murderer and usurper : 
the Shaykhs took the royal title, and were kno^ n 
to the Wasawahili as Mfalme, a term changed 
by El Masudi to Oklimen or Oklimin. 'The 
rulers of Zenj,' says the Nubian Geographer, 'are 
entitled Oklimen, whicli means the son of the 
great master, that is to say, the God of heaven 
and earth : they call the Creator Tamkalanjalo.' 
Cabral was welcomed by the chief ; but his lieges, 
more perspicacious than their ruler, began at 
once to show their ill-will, and the voyager con- 
tinued his progress towards India. Kilwa was 
also visited by Joao da Nova, by Yasco da Gama, 
who on his second journey, in 1502, took tribute 
from Sultan Ibrahim, and by Huy Lourengo 
Eavasco, when en route for Zanzibar. In July, 



3G4 



KILWA ANNALS. 



1505, D. Erancisco d'Almeyda, first viceroy of 
Portuguese India, landed a force of 500 men and 
fired the city. Sultan Ibrahim fled, and was duly 
deposed in favour of one Mohammed Ankoni, 
who had proved himself a friend to the Euro- 
peans : he preferred, however, placing the power 
in the hands of Micante (?), the only son left by 
the murdered Sultan Alfudayl (El Euzayl). The 
small fort of Santiago w^as built, and the citizens 
consented to pay tribute and to acknowledge the 
sovereignty of D. Manoel. 

Discontent soon showed itself: trade with 
Sofala had been forbidden to the citizens, and 
the latter fled to other cities on the coast. Mo- 
hammed Ankoni was presently murdered by the 
intrigues of the deposed Sultan Ibrahim; and 
the viceroy, D' Almeyda, sent G on^aloVaz de Goes 
witli orders to punish the crime. The Captain 
of Kilwa, Pedo Eerreira, had raised the "Wasawa- 
hili of Songo Mnara Island, and preferred for 
the succession Micante to Ali Ilosayn, the son 
of Mohammed. In December, 1506, Yaz de Goes 
landed at Kilwa, and restored its ancient pros- 
perity by putting an end to the monopolies of 
trade, and the vexations caused by the cupidity 
of the Portuguese. After his departure, how- 
ever, Ali Ilosayn managed to obtain the Sultan- 



KILWA ANNALS. 



365 



sliip, and attacked with great loss tlie Sliaykh of 
Tirendiconde, who had actually murdered his 
father. The pride and extortions of the new 
Sultan soon offended his suhjects; he was deposed 
by orders of the Viceroy, and he died in obscurity 
at Mombasah. 

Micante, once more confirmed as Saltan, 
proved himself a greater plague than Ali Hosayn, 
but he managed to secure the interest of Eran- 
cisco Pereira Pestana. This ' Captain of Kilwa ' 
aided in attacking the deposed Ibrahim, but the 
Portuguese garrison was reduced to 40 sound 
men. Hearing the danger of his subjects, D. 
Manoel ordered the Viceroy to raze the fort of 
Santiago, and to transfer Pestana to Socotra, 
which had just been occupied by the Lusitanians, 
and from which they expected great benefits in 
their wars with the Turks. Thereupon Ibrahim 
returned again to his own, Micante fled to the 
Querimba Islands, where he died in misery, and 
the former, made wiser by adversity, restored 
Kilwa to her old prosperity, and charged his sons 
never to fail in fidelity to Portugal. 

In 1598 the capital of Southern Zanzibar 
was attacked by the Wazimba Kafirs, who after- 
wards commited such ravages at Mombasah. A 
traitorous Moor made conditions for himself and 



3G3 



KILWA ANNALS. 



his family, and pointed out a ford over which 
the invader could pass at low tide. The savages 
fell upon the city at night, massacred those who 
could not save themselves by flight, destroyed 
the buildings, and carried otF 3000 persons, male 
and female, who, according to Diogo do Couto, 
were incontinently devoured. 

The Yu'rabi ruler, Sayf bin Sultan, after 
driving the Portuguese from Mombasali (1G08), 
sent his powerful fleet to Zanzibar and Kilwa, 
which at once accepted his rule. A temporary 
return of the Europeans took place in 1728, 
Avhen the Capt.-General Luiz Mello de Sampayo 
re-established the rule of his king from Patta to 
Kilwa. Ahmed bin Said el Ilindwi rising to 
power (1741), contented himself with annually 
sending to the Zanzibar coast as far as Kilwa 
three or four ships, which brought away the rich 
exports of the neighbourhood — gold, ivory, and 
slaves. The name of Kilwa now rarely occurs in 
history. Late in the last century the Prench 
here attempted to form a slave depot, which led 
to the out-station being re-occupied by Zanzibar. 
The Shirazis, however, held the land till the late 
Sayyid Said seized and deported to Maskat 
Muammadi, their last sultan, and thus the tribe 
Avas scattered abroad. 



THE NY ASS A LAKE. 



367 



Sucli is the present state of a settlement 
which in 1500 the Portuguese found prosperous 
to the highest degree, and ruling the Zangian 
coast to Mozambique and Sofala. Every blessing 
save that of beauty has now passed away from it, 
and instead of ' cet eternel nuage de fumee qui 
dort sur les toits, et le bourdonnement lointain 
de la ruche immense,' we see the wild ' smokes ' 
of the tropical coast, and we hear the scream of 
the seamew harshly invading the silence and 
solitude of a city in ruins. 

Returning to Kivinjya, we consulted the 
"Wall and the principal inhabitants about the 
feasibility of a march upon the Xyassa or South- 
ern Lake — here, as at Zanzibar, not a soul con- 
founded it with the Tanganyika. All agreed 
that it was then impossible. The slaves were 
dead or sold off, and porters would not be pro- 
curable on account of the cholera : perhaps, how- 
ever, we might succeed by awaiting the arrival 
of the first caravans in June. This delay we 
could not afford, our time was becoming short, 
our means shorter, and the climate of Kilwa was 
doing us no good. Evidently the exploration of 
the IN'yassa was a matter of too much importance 
to be tacked on to an expedition as its tail-piece. 

Unwillingly but perforce we turned, on 



368 



RETURN TO ZANZIBAR. 



February 24, 1859, the Batela's head north- 
wards. Though the wet season did not set in till 
March 20, the weather was especially vile, — a 
succession of pertinacious calms, violent torna- 
does of wind and rain, and cloudv weather with 
not enough of blue sky to make a ribbon. At 
last, after nine days of thorough discomfort, Ave 
ran into Zanzibar harbour before the mildest of 
sea-breezes. 

As we approached the city file-firing was 
heard day and night : we thought that there was 
fighting, but it proved that the people were 
keeping their Thursday, our Friday eve, with all 
the honours. The place was full of armed men, 
and for a fortnight, during which the wildest 
rumours flew abroad, all was excitement and 
suspense. Although Mr Ezkel bin Yusuf, 
British agent at Maskat, had omitted to report 
the embarkation of Sayyid Suwayni on February 
11, yet the invader was known to be en route. 
The European officials at Zanzibar stood undecided 
how to act except in the matter of pacification. 
The French Consul, whose protection had been 
sought by Sayyid Majid, held to the doctrine 
that all peoples (except the Spaniards?) have a 
right to elect their rulers. The loss of Lieut.- 
Colonel Ilamerton was severely felt : the English 



RETURX TO ZAXZIBAR. 



3G0 



Consul who succeeded liiin was a new man, re- 
ported generally to be not indifferent to self- 
interest. The U. S. Consul refused to take any 
part in the matter, declaring that if he was killed 
his nation would demand four lacs of rupees, 
one for himself, one for his wife, and two for the 
house. 

Presently it was announced officially that the 
inyading fleet had been dispersed by a storm, and 
that Capt. FuUerton, of H. M. S. Punjaub, 
sailing under orders of the Bombay Goyernment, 
had persuaded Sayyid Suwayni to return. Con- 
gratulations were exchanged, salutes were fii'ed, 
bullets whizzed about like hornets, the negroes 
danced and sang for a consecutiye week, and 
with the least possible delay armed men poured 
in crammed boats from the Island towai*ds their 
normal stations. But the blow had been struck : 
the cholera had filled the city with mournins: ; 
the remnant of the trading season was insufficient 
for the usual commercial transactions, and a 
strong impression that the attack from Maskat 
would be renewed, as indeed it was, seemed to 
be uppermost in eyery miud.^ 

* The Sayvid Majid had origiually agreed to pay annually 

$20,000 to Sayyid Suwayni, $10,000 to his brother, Sayyid 

Turki of Sohar, and $10,000 tribute to the Wahhabis. This 

was on condition that Sayyid Turki should not be molested, as 
VOL. n. 24 



370 



THE END OF THE EXPEDITION. 



I have related in a former volume how the 
change at the British Consulate affected me 
personally. My report to the Secretary of the 
Royal Geographical Society had not been for- 
warded, and no one knew where it was. The 
sketch and field books which we had sent in case 
of mishap from the interior, were accidentally 
found stowed away in some drawer. A mistaken 
feeling of delicacy made me object to be the 
bearer of despatches which would have thrown a 
curious light upon certain intrigues, and no 
feeling of delicacy on the part of the person 
complained of prevented his devising an ignoble 
plot and carrying out the principle, ' Calumniari 
audacter, semper all quid hserebit.' The Home 
branch of the Indian Government embraced the 
opportunity of displaying under the sham of in- 
flexible justice — summum jus summa injuria — 
peculiar animus, and turned a preoccupied ear 
to explanations which would have more than 
satisfied any other. And thus unhappily ended 
my labours at Zanzibar and in Eastern Inter- 
tropical Africa 

he repeatedly was. It was generally believed that the arrange- 
ment was verbal, Sayyid Majid having refused to bind himself 
by writing : possibly there may have been a secret document. 
This agreement was subsequently modified by the action of the 
Bombay Government. 



CHAPTEE XII. 



CAPTAIN SPEKE. 

' Tantus amor yeri, nihil est quod noscere malim 
Quara fluvii causas per saecula tanta latentes, 
Ignotumque caput.' — LrcAX, x. 189. 

I FULLY recognize the difficulty of writing a 
chapter with such a heading. Whatever is 
spoken will be deemed by some better unspoken ; 
whilst others would wish me to say much that 
has been, they will believe, left unsaid. Those 
who know me, however, will hardly judge me 
capable of setting down ought unfairly, or of 
yielding, after such a length of years, to feelings 
of indignation, however justifiable they might 
have been considered in the past. Shortly after 
Capt. Speke's decease I was asked to publish a 
sketch of his life and adventures : at that time I 
had hardly heart for the task. 



372 



MEMOIR OF CAPTAIN SPEKE, 



In beginning this short memoir, I can now 
repeat the words published six years ago/ ' Be 
it distinctly understood that, whilst differing from 
Captain Speke upon almost every geographical 
subject supposed to be settled " by his explora- 
tion of 1860 to 1863, I do not stand forth as the 
enemy of the departed. No man can better ap- 
preciate the noble qualities of energy, courage, 
and perseverance which he so eminently pos- 
sessed, than do I, who knew him for so many 
years, and who travelled with him as a brother, 
before the unfortunate rivalry respecting the 
Nile Sources arose like the ghost of discord 
between us, and was fanned to a flame by the 
jealousy and the ambition of " friends." ' I claim 
only the right of telling the truth and the whole 
truth, and of speaking as freely of another as I 
would be spoken of myself in my own biography. 
In this chapter I shall be careful to borrow 
whatever he chose to publish concerning his own 
career, and to supplement it with recollections 
and observations of my own.^ 

Capt. Speke (John Ilanning) was born on 
May 4th, 1827, at Orleigh Court, near Bideford, 

^ The Nile Basin. Tinsleys, 1864. 

^ Introduction to ' "What led to the Discovery of the 
Sources of the Nile.' Blackwoods, 1864. 



EARLY LIFE. 



373 



West England. He was educated at Barnstaple 
Grammar School, and he used often to confess, 
with no little merriment, his devotion to hird- 
nesting and his hatred of ' book-learning.' This 
distaste ^^'as increased by two ophthalmic attacks 
in childhood, which rendered reading a painful 
task ; and in after life he frequently suffered from 
snow-blindness when crossing the Himalayas. 
At the age of 17 he was sent to India as a cadet, 
and in 1844 he was o^azetted ensiOT in the 46th 
Eegiment Bengal X. I. After the usual mo- 
notonous barrack-life, he found himself a subal- 
tern in the so-called ' Fighting Brigade ' of 
General Sir Colin Campbell, and during the 
Panjab war he took part in the affairs of, and 
obtained the medals for, Ramnagar, Sadullapore, 
Chillianwala, and Guzerat. Burning to dis- 
tinguish himself in action, he was not favoured 
by opportunity : on one occasion he was told off 
with a detatchment to capture a gun ; but, to his 
great disgust, a counter-order was issued before 
the attack could be made. 

Lieut. Speke had now served five years, and 
when the campaign ended he applied himself, 
with his wonted energy, to make war upon the 
fauna and ferae of the Himalavas. A man of 
lithe, spare form, about six feet tall, 'blue-eyed^ 



374 BECOMES A SPORTSMAN. 



tawny-maned ; the old Scandinavian type, full 
of energy and life,' with a highly nervous tem- 
perament, a token of endurance, and long, wiry, 
but not muscular limbs, that could cover the 
ground at a swinging pace, he became an excel- 
lent mountaineer. His strong nerve and clear 
head enabled him to cross the Passes before the 
melting of the snows allowed them to be called 
open, and to travel by break-neck paths, which 
others were unable to face : a rival, on one occasion, 
attempted to precede him, and brought on a low 
fever by the horrors of the Col and the Corniche. 
He soon proved himself the best East Indian 
sportsman of each successive season : that he 
was a good shot in his youth is shown by the 
' trophies ' with which he adorned the paternal 
hall. But, as Lieut. Herne and I took the first 
opportunity of ascertaining, he was by no means 
remarkable for the ' use of an unerring rifle,' 
when he appeared at Aden. This often happens 
in the case of men who have overtaxed their nerv- 
ous systems during early life, and who have unin- 
termittently kept up the practice of dangerous 
sport : to mention no others, the late Gordon 
Gumming and Jules Gerard are notable instances 
personally known to me. Those whose tastes 
lie in lion-hunting and boar-spearing will do well 



SPORT IN THE HIMALAYAS. 



375 



to give tliemselves as mncli repose as possible 
between the acts, and to husband their nerve- 
strength for great opportunities. A far better 
walker than a rider, he prided himself, as often 
happens, chiefly upon his equitation. 

Eor five years after the Panjab war Lieut. 
Speke annually obtained long leave to cross the 
Snowy Mountains, and to add to his collections 
of the animals little known or unknown, which 
then abounded in those glaciers and ice-bound 
plains. His messmates, with whom he was ever 
a favourite, wondered at the facilitv with which 
he escaped the regimental grind of parade and 
escort duties. He thus explains the modus 
operandi, that others may profit by it. 'The 
Commander-in-Chief, Sir William Gomm, observ- 
ing to what good account I always turned my 
leave, instead of idling my time away or run- 
ning into debt, took great pleasure in encourag- 
ing my hobby ; and his staff were even heard 
to say it would l}e a pity if I did not get leave, 
as so much good resulted from it.' I may add 
that, with the fine tact which distinguished him, 
he never allowed his friends to think themselves 
neglected, and always returned with rare and 
beautiful specimens of Himalayan pheasants, and 
other admired birds, for each one who had done 



376 



BECOMES A SURVEYOR. 



him kindness, and thus men forgot to be jealous. 
Devoted also to one idea at a time, he eminently 
possessed the power of asking : no prospect of a 
refusal, however harsh, deterred him from apply- 
ing for what was required to advance his views. 
I was struck by the way in which he wrote to 
Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton for supplies and ad- 
vances, of which the latter had no power, or 
rather had not been empowered, to dispose. 

Thus Lieut. Speke was the first to penetrate 
into some of the remotest corners of Little Thi- 
bet : and here, besides indulging his passion for 
shooting, collecting, and preserving, he taught 
himself geodesy in a rude but highly efficient 
manner. The Yearly Address (Journal of the 
Eoyal Geographical Society, vol. xxxv.) asserts 
that he learned to 'make astronomical observ- 
ations.' This was not the case. But by watch 
and sun — to the latter a pocket-compass was 
presently preferred — he obtained distance and 
direction, and his thoroujirh familiaritv with all 
the topographical features of the mountains, en- 
abled him to construct route-sketches and field- 
maps which, ho7»ever rough, proved useful to 
sportsmen and explorers. Some years of this 
work, tracing out the courses of streams, crossing 
passes and rounding heights, gave him an uncom- 



LEADS A HARD LIFE. 



377 



monly acute ' eye for country/ — by no means a 
usual accomplisliment even with the professional 
surveyor. As an old ' agrimensor/ I well know 
that there is no better trainins^ for the tvro 
who can afford the time than to begin field-work 
without instruments : the use of the latter will 
be learned in a few days, nay, hours ; and even 
the most experienced prefer, when possible, to go 
over the ground, and to form a mental sketch 
before attempting exact topography. His maps 
and plans were never, I believe, published, in 
consequence of some difference with the editor, 
who had delayed printing them. 

During his explorations he led the hardest of 
lives, and he solved the problem of ' how to live 
upon half nothing.' ' In the backwoods and 
jungles,' he says, 'no ceremony or etiquette pro- 
vokes unnecessary expenditure, whilst the fewer 
men and material I took with me on my sporting 
excursions the better sport we always got, and 
the freer and more independent I was to carry on 
the chase.' He rose with the freezing dawn, 
walked in the burning sun all day, breaking his 
fast upon native bread and wild onions, and he 
passed the biting nights in the smallest of ' rowtie ' 
tents, often falling asleep before finishing his food. 
The latter was of course chiefly game, and he 



378 



ORIGINAL PLAN. 



had acquired a curious taste for tlie youngest of 
meat, preferring it even when unborn. He also 
attempted to travel barefooted, but this will 
almost always prove a failure to men who have 
not begun it in early life. His system of living 
was good : as the late Lord Palmerston ad- 
vised, he ate much, drank little, and did not 
smoke. 

The object of this economy was to carry out 
a project which he had matured in 1849, after 
tlie expiration of the Panjab campaign. Of his 
three years' furlough he proposed to employ two 
in collecting animals whilst marching through 
Eastern Africa, north of the Line, with the third 
to be spent in ease and rest at home. The idea 
of ' striking the Nile at its head, and then sailing 
down that river to Egypt,' was altogether an 
after-thought, and similarly his knowledge of 
' E/uppell and others ' was the result of far 
later application. I well remember at Aden his 
astonishment at my proposing so improbable a 
scheme as marching overland to the Nile sources. 
But he had seen in maps the mythical ' Moun- 
tains of the Moon,' which twenty years ago used 
to span Africa from east to west, a huge black 
caterpillar upon a white leaf, and he determined 
that they would ' in all probability harbour wild 



FIR^T MISTAKE. 



379 



goats and sheep, as the Himalaya range does.' 

Lieut. Speke's tenth year of Indian service 
was completed on Sept. 3, 1854, and the next 
day saw him in the Peninsular and Oriental 
steamer bound from Calcutta to Aden. I was 
then at the Coal-Hole of the East, organizing 
amongst 'the treasures and sweetnesses of the 
Happy Arabia,' an expedition to explore, first 
the Guardafuian Horn, then the far interior. 
He brought with him 'notions' to the value 
of £390, all manner of cheap and useless chow- 
chow, guns and revolvers, swords and cutlery, 
and beads and cloths, which the ' simple-minded 
negro of Africa' would have rejected with disdain. 
He began at the very landing-place with a serious 
mistake, which might have led to the worst 
consequences. Meeting the first mop-headed 
Somalis who spoke broken English, he told them 
his intentions, and he actually allowed two 
donkey-boys to become his Abbans — guides and 
protectors. Strangers visiting the Eastern Horn 
must ever be careful to choose the most powerful 
of these licensed plunderers : the barbarians 
hold strongly to the right of might, and they 
would delight in stripping a white man appear- 
ing amongst them with an ignoble or an insuffi- 
cient escort. On the other hand, the donkey-boys, 



380 



COLONEL OUTRAM. 



having been appointed according to custom, 
would have claimed the honour and the profits of 
the post, and they would have been supported by 
public opinion against any Abbans of another 
tribe. 

Making acquaintance with Lieut. Speke, I 
found with astonishment that he could speak no 
Eastern language but a little of the normal 
Anglo-Hindostani, and that, without knowing 
even the names of the harbour-towns, he proposed 
to explore one of the most dangerous parts of 
Africa. Convinced that if he preceded me his 
life would be lost, and that the Somali Expedition 
would be unable even to set out, I applied 
officially to the Political Resident of Aden, the 
late Colonel, afterwards Sir James, Outram, 
of whose * generous kind nature ' and of whose 
' frank and characteristic ardour ' my personal 
experience do not permit me to speak with 
certainty. In his younger days Colonel Outram 
had himself proposed to open up the wild regions 
opposite Aden. But when he rose to command 
and its responsibilities, he 'considered it his 
duty as a Christian to prevent, as far as he was 
able, anybody from hazarding his life there.' 
To a traveller prepared for a forlorn hope this 
view of Christian obligations was by no means 



COLONEL OUTRAM. 



381 



consolatory, and I could not help wishing that 
Colonel Outram had been able to remember his 
own feelings of 20 years back. Thus far, how- 
ever, he was dans son droit, he held it his duty 
to prevent men from destroying themselves, and 
he should have veto'd the whole affair. 

Presently, however, upon my assuming the 
fullest responsibility and giving a written bond 
for our blood, the Political Resident allowed 
me to enrol Lieut. Speke as a member of the 
Expedition, and thus to save his furlough by 
putting him on full service. Colonel Outram 
would also have gratified his own generosity, and 
shifted all onus from his conscience, by making 
me alone answerable for the safety of a Madras 
officer who had left India expressly to join us. 
I had, however, now done enough : common 
report at Aden declared the thing to be im- 
possible, and the unfortunate traveller returned 
unsuccessful. 

Lieut. Speke was uncommonly hard to man- 
age : he owned himself to be a ' Masti Bengali ' 
(bumptious Bengal-man), and having been for 
years his own master, he had a way as well as 
a will of his own. To a peculiarly quiet and 
modest aspect — aided by blue eyes and blonde 
hair — to a gentleness of demeanour, and an 



382 



CAPT, SPEKE, 



almost childlike simplicity of manner wliicli at 
once attracted attention, he united an immense 
and abnormal fund of self-esteem, so carefully 
concealed, however, that none but his intimates 
suspected its existence. He ever held, not only 
that he had done his best on all occasions, but 
also that no man living could do better. These 
were his own words, and they are not quoted 
in a spirit of blame : evidently such is the temper 
best suited to the man who would work through 
the accumulated difficulties of exploration or of 
any other exceptional career. Before we set out 
he openly declared that being tired of life he 
had come to be killed in Africa — not a satis- 
factory announcement to those who aspired to 
something better than the crown of martyrdom. 
But when the opportunity came he behaved with 
prudence as well as courage. I therefore look 
upon his earlier confession as a kind of whimsical 
affectation, like that which made him, when he 
returned to England in 1859, astonish certain 
of the Browns by speaking a manner of broken 
English, as if he had forgotten his vernacular in 
the presence of strange tongues. 

Einding, even at that early period of acquaint- 
anceship, that he had a true but uncultivated 
taste for zoology, and extensive practice in rude 



WADY NOGAL. 



383 



field mapping, I determined that his part of the 
work should be in the highly interesting Eastern 
Horn of Africa. He accordinorly landed at Bun- 
der Guray, with directions to explore the import- 
ant feature, called by Lieut. Cruttenden, I. N., 
* Wady Nogal,' and to visit the highlands of the 
Warsangali and the Dulbahanta tribes, the most 
warlike and the least treacherous of the Somal. 
Meanwhile Lieutenants Stroyan and Herne re- 
mained at Berber ah, collecting information from 
and watching the annual fair, whilst I proceeded, 
more, it must be confessed, for curiosity and for 
display of travelling savoir faire, than for other 
reason, through the Habr Awal and other most 
dangerous families of the Somal, to Harar, the 
Tinbuktu of Eastern Africa. 

I returned to Aden on Eeb. 9th, 1855, and 
was followed about a week afterwards by Lieut. 
Speke. He was thoroughly disgusted with his 
journey, and he brought back a doleful tale of 
trouble. He had adopted, by my advice, a kind 
of half-eastern dress, as did Colonel Pelly and 
his officers, when visiting El E-iyaz, the head- 
quarters of the Wahhabis ; and he attributed to 
this costume all his misfortunes. He came back, 
determined that no such feature as the Wady 
Nogal existed : yet M. Guillain (ii. 493) saw be- 



384 



THE FIREBRAND. 



tween Dra Salih and Ra'as el Khayl, the valley, 
and its stream debouching upon the coast. He 
had recorded his misadventures in a diary whose 
st^^le, to say nothing of sentiments and geo- 
graphical assertions, rendered it, in my opinion, 
unfit for publication, and I took the trouble of 
re-writing the whole. Published as an Appendix 
to ' Pirst Pootsteps in East Africa,' it was in the 
third person, without the least intention of 
giving offence, but simply because I did not wish 
to palm upon the reader my own composition as 
that of another person. Unhappily, however, 
an article from a well-known pen appeared in 
Blackwood (p. 499, October, 1856), and con- 
tained these words : — 

* A resum(3 of Mr Speke's ol)servations is ap- 
pended to Mr Burton's book, but it lacks the 
interest of a personal narrative ; and we much 
regret that the experiences of one whose exten- 
sive wanderings had already so well qualified 
him for the task, and who has shown himself so 
able an explorer, should not have been chronicled 
at a greater length, and tlirown into a form 
which would have rendered them more interest- 
ing to the general reader.' 

This brand was not foolishly thrown : it 
kindled a fire which did not consume the less 



THE FIREBRAND. 



385 



fiercely because it was smothered. Some two 
years afterwards, when in the heart of Africa, 
and half delirious with fever, my companion let 
fall certain expressions which, to my infinite 
surprise, showed that he had been nursing three 
great grievances. The front of the offence was 
that his Diary had been spoiled. Secondly, he 
felt injured because he had derived no profit from 
a publication which had not proved ' paying ' to 
me. Thirdly, he was hurt because I had for- 
warded to the Calcutta Museum of Natural His- 
tory, as expressly bound by my instructions, his 
collection, of which he might easily have kept 
duplicates. My companion had a peculiarity 
more rarely noticed in the Englishman than in 
the Hibernian and in the Teuton — a habit of se- 
creting thoughts and reminiscences till brought 
to light by a sudden impulse. He would brood, 
perhaps for years, over a chance word, which a 
single outspoken sentence of explanation could 
have satisfactorily settled. The inevitable result 
was the exaggeration of fact into fiction, the dis- 
tortion of the true to the false. Let any man, 
after long musing about, or frequent repetition 
of, a story or an adventure, consult his original 
notes upon the matter, and if they do not startle 
him, I shall hold him to be an exception. And if 

VOL. II, 25 



386 



THE ATTACK AT BERBERAH. 



lie keep no journal, and be withal somewhat hard 
of persuasion, he will firmly hold, in all honour 
and honesty, to the latest version, modified by 
lapse of time. I made this remark more than 
once to my companion, and he received it wdth 
an utter incredulity which clearly proved to me 
that his was a case in point. 

The next adventure was a savage mel^e at 
Berberah, on April 19th, 1855, when Ave were 
attacked by Somali plunderers. Here again I 
unwittingly offended Lieut. Speke's suscepti- 
bilities by saying in the thick of the fight, 'Don't 
step back, or they'll think we are running ! ' As 
usual, I was never allowed to know that he was 
' chagrined by this rebuke at his management ' 
till his own account of the mishap aj)peared 
before the public. Tlie story, as he tells it, reads 
very differently from his written report still in 
my possession, and he gives the world to under- 
stand that he alone of the force had attempted 
to defend the camp. The fact is, he had lost his 
head, and instead of following me when cutting 
my Avay through the enemy, he rushed about, 
dealing blows with the butt of an unloaded re- 
volver. His courage was of that cool order which 
characterizes the English rather than the French 
soldier. The former, constitutionally strong- 



THE ESCAPE. 



387 



nerved and self-reliant, goes into action reckless 
of what may happen, and unprepared for ex- 
tremes : when he ' gets more than he bargains 
for ' he is apt, like nnimaginative men generally, 
to become demoralized. The Erenchman, with 
a weaker organization, prepares himself to expect 
the worst ; and when the worst comes, he finds 
it, perhaps, not so bad as he expected. 

Lieut. Speke escaped as by a miracle, and 
recovered as wonderfully from eleven spear- 
wounds, one of which was clean through the 
thigh. Eeturning to England, we both volun- 
teered for the Crimean campaign ; and he found 
his way to the Turkish Contingent, I to the 
Bashi Buzuks. When peace was concluded he 
agreed to explore, in company with Capt. Smyth, 
of the Bengal Army, Circassia and other parts of 
Central Asia. We met, however, in London, 
and he at once proposed to dismiss his new plans 
for another African expedition. 

The reader has seen, in the earlier chapters 
of this book, the troubles attending our de- 
parture, and the obstacles opposed by the Court 
of Directors to Lieut. Speke again becoming my 
companion ; it has also been explained how the 
difficulties were removed. My companion did 
not, however, ' take kindly ' to the Second Expe- 



388 



CAPT. SPEKES WORK, 



dition. Even at the beginning of our long ab- 
sence from civilized life I could not but perceive 
that his former alacrity had vanished : he was 
habitually discontented with what was done ; he 
left to me the whole work of management, and 
then he complained of not being consulted. He 
had violent quarrels with the Balocli, and on one 
occasion the Jemadar returned to him an insult 
which, if we had not wanted the man, he would 
have noticed with a sword-cut. Unaccustomed 
to sickness, he could not endure it himself nor 
feel for it in others; and he seemed to enjoy 
pleasure in saying unpleasant things — an Anglo- 
Indian peculiarity. Much of the change he ex- 
plained to me by confessing that he could not 
take interest in an exploration of which he was 
not the commander. On the other hand, he 
taught himself the use of the sextant and other 
instruments, with a resolution and a pertinacity 
which formed his characteristic merits. Night 
after night, at the end of the burning march, he 
sat for hours in the chilling dews, practising 
lunars and timing chronometers. I have ac- 
knowledged in becoming terms, it is hoped, the 
value of these labours, and the benefit derived 
from them by the Expedition. The few books — 
Shakespere, Euclid, and so forth — which com- 



THE * VICTORIA NYANZA: 



389 



posed my scanty library, Ave read together again 
and asrain : he learned from me to sketch the 
scenery, and he practised writing a diary and ac- 
counts of adventure, which he used to bring for 
correction. These reminiscences forcibly suggest 
to me the Arab couplet — 

^.'L*^ jCwwi»\ LtJvS 

* I taught him archery day by day — 
When his arm waxed strong, 'twas me he shot.* 

The discovery of the water which he called 
Victoria Nyanza formed, I have said, the point 
whence our paths diverged. He was convinced 
that he had found ' the Kile Source,' and he was 
determined to work out that problem in the 
position which he thought himself best fitted to 
hold, that of leader. Arrived at Zanzibar, he 
fell into bad hands, and being, like most am- 
bitious men, very apt to consider himself neg- 
lected and ill-treated until crowned by success, 
he was easily made sore upon the point of merits 
not duly recognized. He showed a nervous 
hurry to hasten home, although we found upon 
the Island that our leave had been prolonged by 
the Bombay Government. Pteaching Aden, we 
were housed for a few days by my old and tried 
friend, the late Dr Steinhaeuser, who repeatedly 



390 



CAPT. SPEKES RETURN. 



warned me that all was not riglit. On Monday, 
April ISth, arrived H. M.'s ship Purious, Captain 
Sherard Osborne, carrying the late Lord Elgin 
and his secretary, the supposed author of the re- 
view in Blackwood. We were kindly invited to 
take passage on board : my companion's sick 
certificate was en regie, whilst mine was not, and 
he left Aden in such haste that he did not take 
leave of his host. Still we were, to all appear- 
ance, friends. 

Eefore parting with me, Capt. Speke volun- 
tarily promised, when reaching England, to visit 
his family in the country, and to await my 
arrival, that we might appear together before the 
Uoyal Geographical Society. But on board the 
Eurious he was exposed to the worst influences, 
and he was persuaded to act in a manner which 
his own moral sense must have afterwards 
strongly condemned, if indeed it ever pardoned 
it. Erom Cairo he wrote me a long letter, re- 
iterating his engagement, and urging me to take 
all the time and rest that broken health required. 
Yet, hardly had he reached London before he 
appeared at "VYhitehall Place to give his own 
views of important points still under discussion. 
Those were the days when the Society in ques- 
tion could not afford to lack its annual lion, 



MY RETURN. 



391 



whose roar was chiefly to please the ladies and to 
push the institution. Despite the palpable in- 
justice thus done to the organizer and leader of 
the expedition, Capt. Speke was officially directed 
— 'much against his own inclination,' he de- 
clared — to lecture in Burlington House. The 
President ' seized the enlightened view that such 
a discovery should not be lost to the glory of 
England,' and came at once to the conclusion, 
' S|)eke, we must send you there again.' Einally, 
a council assembled to ascertain what were the 
projects of the volunteer leader, and what assist- 
ance he would require, in order to ' make good 
his discovery by connecting the Lake with the 
Nile.' They ended their labours by recommend- 
ing the most liberal preparations — a remarkable 
contrast to those of the first expedition.^ 

I reached London on May 21st, and found that 
everything had been done for, or rather against, 
me. My companion now stood forth in his true 
colours, an angry rival. He had doubtless been 

^ * This fine undertaking was most inadequately subsidized : 
only £1000 was supplied by the Government, through the So- 
ciety — £750 at the outset, and £250 on their return. The 
rest of the total cost, £2500, was defrayed jointly by the tra- 
vellers themselves ' (3Ir Findlay, loc. cit., speaking of the East 
African Expedition of 185G to 1859). The Treasury, in 1800, 
contributed £2500, a sum which, with the experience gained 
during the first expedition, was amply sufficient. 



392 



PAPERS IN BLACKWOOD. 



taught that the expedition had owed to him all 
its success: he had learned to feel aggrieved, 
and the usual mental alchem.y permuted to an 
offence every friendly effort which I had made in 
his favour. No one is so unforgiving, I need 
hardly say, as the man who injures another. 
A college friend (Alfred B. Richards) thus cor- 
rectly defined my position, 'Barton, shaken to 
the hackhone hy fever, disgusted, desponding, 
and left hehind both in the spirit and in the flesh, 
was, in racing parlance, " nowhere." ' 

Presently appeared two papers in Black- 
wood's Magazine (Sept. — Oct., 1859), Avhich 
opened a broad breach between my late com- 
panion and myself. They contained futilities 
wliich all readers could detect. A horseshoe, or 
Chancellor's wig, some GOOO feet high and 180 
miles in depth, was prolonged beyond the equator 
and gravely named 'Mountains of the Moon.' 
The Nyanza water, driven some 120 miles 
further north than when originally laid down 
from Arab information, stultified one of the most 
important parts of our labours. Nor did I see 
why my companion should proceed to apply 
without consultation such names as ' Speke 
Channel' and 'Burton Point' to features which 
we had explored together. 



MR MAC QUEEN. 



393 



It was no ' petty point of explorer's etiquette,' 
as some reviewer generously put the case, wliicli 
made me resent the premature publication of 
Capt. Speke's papers : though the many-headed 
may think little of such matters, a man who has 
risked his life for a great discovery cannot sit 
tamely to see it nullified. My views also about 
retaining native nomenclature have ever been 
fixed, and of the strongest : I still hold, with the 
late venerable Mr Macqueen, 'Nothing can be 
so absurd as to impose English names on any 
part, but especially upon places in the remote 
interior parts of Africa. This is,we believe, done 
by no other nation. What nonsense it is calling 
a part of Lake Nyanza the Eengal Archi- 
pelago; a stagnant puddle, with water in it 
only during the rains, or where the lake over- 
flows, the Jordans, a name never heard of in 
geography ' (The Kile Basin, pp. 109, 110). 

Such a breach once made is easily widened. 
My companion wrote and spoke to mutual ac- 
quaintances in petulant and provoking terms, 
which rendered even recognition impossible. 
They justified me, I then thought, in publishing 
the Lake Hegions of Central Africa, where, smart- 
ing under injury, my story was told. After the 
lapse of a decade, when a man of sense can sit in 



39 i 'LAKE REGIONS OF CENTRAL AFRICA: 



judgment upon his younger self, it is evident to 
me that much might have heen omitted, and that 
more might have been modified, yet I find no- 
thing in it unfair, unreasonable, or in any way 
unfaithful. Many opined that the more dig- 
nified proceeding Avould have been to ignore the 
injuries done to me. But the example of my 
old commander, Sir Charles Napier (the soldier), 
taught me in early life how unwise it is to let 
public sentence be passed by default, and that 
even delay in disputing unqualified assertions 
may in some cases be fraught with lasting evil. 

Capt. Speke succeeded, as the world knows, in 
organizing a second expedition upon the plan of 
the first : it lasted between Sept. 25, 1860, and 
April, 18G3, when he telegram'd to Alexandria, 
' The Nile is settled.' I would in no way depre- 
ciate the solid services rendered to geography by 
him and by his gallant and amiable companion, 
Capt. Grant. They brought in an absolute gain 
of some 350 geographical miles between S. lat. 3° 
and N. lat. 3°, an equatorial belt, vaguely known 
only l)y Arab report and concerning which, with 
the hardest labour, I could collect only the heads 
of information. But they left unsolved the 
moot question of the Nile sources, and indeed 
it soon became the opinion of scientific Europe 



'DISCOVERY OF SOURCE OF THE NILE: 395 



that during the two and a half years, ending with 
April, 1863, the Xile Basin had been invested 
with an amount of fable unknoAvn to the days of 
Ptolemy. 

Presently after Capt. Speke's triumphant re- 
turn appeared the volumes upon the ' Discovery 
of the Source of the Nile,' and upon ' What led 
to the Discovery.' His brilliant march led me to 
express, despite all the differences which had 
sprung up between us, the most favourable 
opinion of his leadership, and indirect messages 
passed between us suggesting the possibility of a 
better understanding. Again, however, either 
old fancied injuries still rankled in his heart or 
he could not forgive the man he had injured — 
odisse quem Iseseris — or, which is most pro- 
bable, the malignant tongues of ' friends ' urged 
him on to a renewal of hostilities, and the way to 
reconciliation was for ever barred. This was the 
more unhappy as he had greatly improved under 
the influence of a noble ambition justly satisfied, 
and all his friends were agreed that success had 
drawn out the best points of his character. 

The volumes did much to injure Capt. 
Speke's reputation as a traveller. It would be 
vain to comment upon the extreme looseness of 
the geography : one instance sufhces, the 



396 'DISCOVERY OF SOURCE OF THE NILE: 



' great backwater Luta Xzige.' The anthro- 
pology and ethnology are marvellous : what can 
be said of his identifying the Watuta with the 
Zulu, and the Zangian Wahuma with the ' Semi- 
Shem-IIamitic ' race of ^Ethiopia or with the 
Gallas, the most Semitic of the N. East African 
tribes ? AYliat can we make of ' our poor elder 
brother Ilam ? ' What can ruddy King David 
have had to do with the black Chief Rumanika ? 
The explanation is that the author's mind, in- 
curious about small matters, could not grasp, 
and did not see the importance of grasping, a 
fact, and his vagueness of thought necessarily 
extended to his language. Else how account for 
liis ' partial eclipse of the moon happens on the 
fifth mid sixth of January, 18G3 ' (Journal p. 
213) ? if and be a misprint for or, why had he 
not consulted the newest almanac ? Nor did he 
know the use of words. A mass of foul huts is 
' a village built on the most luxurious principles,' 
and a petty chief is a * King of kings ; ' whilst 
a * splendid court ' means a display of mere 
savagery, and the ' Erench of those parts ' are 
barbarians somewhat livelier than their neigh- 
bours. ' Nelson's Monument at Charing Cross ' 
is a specimen of what wc may expect from 
Central Africa. 



THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION OF 1864. 397 



Not less curious is the awkward scatter of 
Scriptural quotations and allusions that floats 
upon the surface of his volumes. It looks as 
though some friend had assured the author that 
his work would not ' go down ' without a little 
of what is popularly called ' hashed Eible ; ' 
and that the result had been the recommendation 
of missionary establishments at the Nile sources. 
I am assured, however, that before the end of his 
life Capt. Speke had greatly changed his previous 
opinions. When travelling^ with me he used to 
ignore ' overruling Providence or a future state ' 
in a stvle whose unstudied conviction somewhat 
surprised me. 

Returning to England from Fernando Po, 
"West Africa, I attended at Bath the British 
Association for September, 1864. The date for 
the discussion about the Nile Sources, and the 
claims of the Lake Tanganyika, and a N. Eastern 
water then unnamed, versus the ' Victoria Ny- 
anza,' was fixed on Sept. 16. On the previous day I 
passed my quondam companion as he sat on the 
President's right hand, and I could not but re- 
mark the immense change of feature, of ex- 
pression, and of general appearance which his 
severe labours, complicated perhaps by deafness 
and dimness of sight, had wrought in him. We 



398 



CAPTAIN SPEKE'S DEATH. 



looked at eacli other of course without signs of 
recognition. Some one beckoned to him from 
the bottom of the halL At 1.30 p. m. he arose, 
and ejaculating, ' I can't stand this any longer ! ' 
he left the room. Three hours afterwards he 
was a corpse. 

Early in the forenoon fixed for what silly 
tongues called the ' Nile Duel ' I found a large 
assembly in the rooms of section E. A note was 
handed round in silence. Presently my friend 
Mr Eindlay broke the tidings to me. Capt. 
Speke had lost his life on the yesterday, at 
4 P.M., whilst shooting over a cousin's grounds. 
He had been missed in the field, and his kins- 
man found him lying upon the earth, shot 
through the body close to the heart. He lived 

onlv a few minutes, and his last words were a 
V 

request not to be moved. The calamity had 
been the more unexpected as he was ever re- 
markable for the caution with which he handled 
his weapon. I ever make a point of ascertaining 
a fellow-traveller's habits in that matter, and I 
observed that even when our canoe was shaken 
and upthrown by the hippopotamus he never 
allowed his gun to look at him or at others. 

Thus perished, in the flower of his years, at 
the early age of 87, by the merest and most 



CAPTAIN SPEKE'S DEATH. 



399 



unaccountable accident, an explorer of whom 
England had reason to be prond, and whose 
memory will not readily pass away. His sudden 
decease recalls to mind that of James Bruce of 
the Blue Biver, who, after a life of hazard and of 
dangerous enterprise, perished by the slipping of 
his foot : unlike the Abyssinian explorer, how- 
ever, Capt. Speke was not fated to extend his 
sphere of usefulness or to enjoy the fruits of his 
labours. With the active and intrepid energy, 
with the unusual temper, patience, and single- 
mindedness, with the earnest and indomitable 
pertinacity, and with the almost heroic determina- 
tion, which he brought to bear upon everything 
that he attempted, the achievements of Capt. 
Speke' s later life would doubtless, had his career 
run out its time, have thrown into the shade 
the exploits of his youth. 

^!c- * * * * 

I will end this chapter — and volume — with a 
few stanzas written by my wife, who shall be 
allowed to tell her own tale. 

' The following lines were suggested to me in 
the studio of the late Mr Edgar George Pap worth, 
of 36, Milton Street, Dorset Square, during the 
winter of 1864-5. 

' Captain Burton had recently returned from 



400 



MR PAPWORTH. 



Africa. The annual meeting of the British As- 
sociation for the Advancement of Science had 
just taken place at Bath, and poor Captain 
Speke's sudden death was still fresh in our me- 
mories. We had been invited by the artist to 
look at Captain Speke's bust, upon which he was 
then employed. Mr Papworth said to Captain 
Burton, I only took the cast after death, and 
never knew him alive ; but you who lived with 
him so long can surely give me some hints." 
Captain Burton, who had learnt something of 
sculpturing when a boy in Italy, took the sculp- 
tor's pencil from Mr PapAVorth's hand, and with 
a few touches here and there made a perfect like- 
ness and expression. As I stood by, I was very 
much impressed by this singular coincidence.' 

A MOULDED mask at my feet I found, 

With the drawn-down mouth and the deepen' d eye, 
More lifeless still than the marbles 'round — 

Very death amid dead life's mimicry ; 
I raised it. and Thought fled afar from me 
To the Afric land by the Zingian Sea. 

'Twas a face, a shell, that had nought of brain, 
And th' imbedding chalk showed a yellow thread 

AVhich struck my glance with a sudden pain, 
For this seemed 'live when the rest was dead ; 

And poor bygone raillery came to mind 

Of the tragic masque and no head behind. 



STANZAS. 



401 



But behind there lay in the humblest shrine 

A gem of the brightest, purest ray : 
The gem was the human will divine ; 

The shrine was the homeliest human clay. 
Self-glory — but hush ! be the tale untold 
To the pale ear thinned by you plaster mould. 

Shall the diamond gem lose her queenly worth, 
Though pent in the dungeon of sandy stone ? 

Say, is gold less gold, though in vilest earth 

For long years it has lurked unprized, unknown ? 

And the rose that blooms o'er the buried dead, 

Hath its pinkuess paled, hath its fragrance fled ? 

Thus the poet sang, ' Is the basil ^dle, 

Though the beetle's foot o'er the basil crawl ? ' 

And though Arachne hath webbed her toil, 
Shall disgrace attach to the princely hall ? 

And the pearl's clear drop from the oyster-shell, 

Comes it not on the royal brow to dwell ? 

On the Guarded Tablet was writ by Eate, 

A double self for each man ere born, 
Who shall love his love and shall hate his hate. 

Who shall praise his praise and shall scorn his scorn, 
Enduring, aye to the bitter end, 
And man's other man shall be called a friend. 

When the Spirits with radiance nude arrayed 
In the presence stood of the One Supreme, 

Soul looked unto soul, and the glance conveyed 
A pledge of love which each must redeem ; 

Nor may spirit enfleshed in the dust, forget 

That high trysting-place, ere Time was not yet. 

When the first great Sire, so the Legends say. 

The four-rivered garden in Asia trod. 
And 'neath perfumed shade, in the di-outh of day, 

Walked and talked with the Hebrew God, 
VOL. u. 26 



402 



STANZAS. 



Such friendship was as it first began ; 

And the first of friends were the God, the Man. 

But we twain were not bound bj such highborn ties ; 

Our souls, our minds, and our thoughts were strange, 
Our ways were not one, nor our sympathies. 

We had severed aims, we had diverse range ; 
In the stern drear Present his lot was cast, 
AVhile I hoped for the Euture and loved the Past. 

'Twixt man and woman use oft hath bred 

The habits that feebly affection feign. 
While the common board and the genial bed 

And Time's welding force links a length of chain ; 
Till, where Love was not, it hath sometimes proved 
This has loved and lived, that has lived and loved. 

But 'twixt man and man it may not so hap ; 

Each man is his own and his proper sphere ; 
At some point, perchance, may the lines o'erlap ; 

The far rest is far as the near is near — 
Save when the orbs are of friend and friend 
And the circles' limits perforce must blend. 

But the one sole point at which he and I 

Could touch, was the contact of vulgar minds ; 

'Twas interest's forcible, feeble tie. 

Which binds, but with lasting bonds ne'er binds ; 

And our objects fated to disagree. 

What way went I, and what way went he ? 

Tet were we comrades for years and years, 
And endured in its troth our companionship 

Through a life of chances, of hopes, and fears ; 
Nor a word of harshness e'er passed the lip, 

Nor a thought unkind dvrelt in either heart, 

Till we chanced — by what chance did it hap ? — to part. 



STANZAS. 



403 



AVhere Fever, yellow-skinnefl, bony, gaunt, 
"With the long blue nails and lip livid white ; 

With the blood-stain'd orbs that could ever haunt 
Our brains hj day and our eyes by night ; 

In her grave-clothes mouldy with graveyard taint 

Came around our sleeping mats — came and went : 

"Where the crocodile glared with malignant stare, 
And the horse of the river, with watery mane 

That flash' d in the sun, from his oozy lair 

E-ose to gaze on the white and wondrous men ; 

And the lion, with muzzle bent low to earth, 

Mock'd the thunder-cloud with his cruel mirth : 

Wi'.ere the speckled fowls the Mimosa decked 
Like blue-bells studded with opal dew ; 

And giraff'es, pard-spotted, deer-eyed, swan-necked, 
Browsed down the base whence the tree-dome grew : 

And the sentinel-antelope, aeried high, 

With his frighten'd bound taught his friends to fly : 

Where the lovely Coast is all rank with death, 
That basks in the sun of the Zingian shore ; 

Where the mountains, dank with the ocean's breath, 
Bear the incense-tree and the sycamore ; 

Where the grim fierce desert and stony hill 

Breed the fiercest beasts, and men fiercer still : 

Where the land of the Moon, with all blessings blest 
Save one: — save man — and with name that sped 

To the farthest edge of the misty West 

Since the Tyrian sailor his sail-sheet spread, 

Loves to gaze on her planet whose loving ray 

Fills her dells and fells with a rival day : 

Where the Lake unnamed in the Afric wold 
Its breast to the stranger eye lay bare ; 

Where Isis, forced her veil to unfold — 

To forget the boast of t!ie days that were — 



404 



STANZAS. 



Stood in dusky charms with the crisp tire crowned, 
On the hallowed bourne, on the Nile's last bound : 

"We toiled side by side, for the hope was sweet 
To engrave our names on the Eock of Time ; 

On the Koly Hill to implant our feet 

Where enfaned sits Fame o'er the earth sublime; 

And now rose the temple before our eyes. 

We had paid the price, we had plucked the prize ; 

When up stood the Shadow betwixt us twain — 
Had the dusky goddess bequeathed her ban ? — 

And the ice of death through every vein 
Of comradeship spread in briefest span ; 

The guerdon our toils and our pains had won, 

Was too great for two, was enough for one ; 

And deeper and deeper grew the gloom 

When the serpent tongue had power to sting, 

While o'er one of us hung the untimely doom, 
A winter's night to a day of spring ; 

And heart from heart parting fell away 

At the fiat of Fate by her iron sway. 

It seems as though from a foamy * dream 

I awake, and this pallid mask behold, 
And I ask — Can this be the end supreme 

Of the countless things of the days of old ? 
This clay, is it all of what used to be 
In the Afric land by the Zingian Sea ? 

Isabel Bukton. 



Trauma sind Schaume. 



APPEXDIX I. 



^'OTES ON COMMERCIAL MATTERS AT ZANZIBAR IN 
THE YEARS 1857 1859. 



There was a great dearth of small change on the 
Island, and until a. d. 1849 broken sums were paid in 
Mtama or holcus grain, of which exceedingly variable 
measures constituted the dollar. The system reminds us 
of the Mexican cacao money and the almonds of British 
India. When Capt. Guillain (iii. 376 — 398) says ' il existe 
aux Kiloua une monnaie de compte, nommee Doti/ he 
confounds metallic specie with the African substitute of 
cotton cloth, the Doti, as will appear, measuring 8 cubits 
= 12 feet, more or less. * Shroffing ' was in early days a 
profitable trade : the Kojahs and Banyans offered the 
ruler, in. later years, a considerable annual sum if he 
would retain the primitive currency. This infancy of the 
circulating system endured till 1840, when Sayyid Said 
imported from Bombay through H. B. M.'s consul some 
S5000 worth of the small copper coin called pice. 
Here there are no mints, of which some 16 exist at 
Maskat — private shops to which any man can carry his 
silver, see it broken up, and pay for the coining whatever 
the workmen may charge. At first 132 and even 133 
pice were the change for a German crown : presently the 
shroffs, by buying up the copper, raised its value to 98. 



406 



APPENDIX I. 



The discount (34 pice, or more than a quarter) of the 
salaries paid by the H. E. I. Company at Zanzibar 
became so great that the minor officials of the Consulate 
required an increase. When I landed at Zanzibar the 
German crown fetched in the bazar from 107 to 108 pice ; 
in parts of the mainland where it was accepted, from 112 
to 130. This fluctuating state of things was very pro- 
perly put down with a high hand by Sayj^id Majid, who 
ordered 128 pice to be the legal equivalent of a German 
crown, assuming it here as in India as equal to two 
Company's rupees (1 rupee = 16 annas X 4 pice = 64 
pice X 2 = 128 pice). In these lands he who holds the 
balance of justice must make things find their own level; 
however hazardous may be the interference with trade, it 
is sometimes necessary amongst barbarians to prevent it 
cutting its own throat. 

The following statement of our losses at Bombay or 
Zanzibar may be useful to future travellers who are 
advised to bring out direct bills to II. B. M.'s Consulate. 
Here they must buy, despite high prices and roguery, 
cloth and wires, beads and cattle, or they run the risk of 
carrying useless stock. A letter of credit from a London 
banker for £500, payable at Bombay, realized only Co.'s 
rs 4720, the rate of exchange happening to be low. The 
value of 100 German crowns at Zanzibar then ranging 
between Co.'s rs 214 and 220, our letter of credit for Co.'s 
rs 4720 brought $2205. Thus assuming the rupee at 2h. 
and the dollar at 4s. (it is worth about 2d. more), our loss 
upon £500 amounted to £87. 

[ Bills on England are generally purchaseabje at a fair 
rate : until lately S5 have been paid for the pound sterling, 
and the exchange is now about $4.75. Nothing of the 



APPENDIX I. 



407 



kind, however, is permanent at Zanzibar ; there is no 
regular market, and the only rule is manfully to take the 
best advantaofe of a nei^rhbour's necessities. 

Usury, made unlawful by the Saving Faith, flourishes 
as in all the commercial centres of Islam. Foreign houses 
doing business at Zanzibar cannot afford to part with the 
ready money requisite to secure their regular and highly- 
profitable returns of trade. They therefore borrow at 6 
to 9 per cent, large sums from the principal Arabs and 
Wasawahili ; when lending they refuse less than 33 per 
cent, upon the best security, and I have heard of cases in 
which 40 per cent. — deducted also from the capital — was 
demanded. Amongst natives moneys advanced on landed 
security or bottomry bear interest of 15 — 20 per cent, per 
annum, and pious Shylock salves his conscience by the 
sale of an egg or a cucumber. As in Somaliland, Banyans 
and large traders advance small ventures of goods, such as 
a bale of cloth to the retail vendor, who during the 
season barters it upon the coast and in the interior for 
slaves and ivory, hide, copal, and grain. In these 
transactions the interest is enormous ; consequently the 
merchant rolls in dollars, and the tradesman manages only 
to live. 

The insurance of vessels is here, as in most parts of the 
East, a gambling transaction ; barratry cannot be guarded 
against, and all manner of fraud is successfully practised. 
Kojahs and Banyans underwrite, working upon two 
systems — 'Faliseri,' a corruption of our * policy,' because a 
regular agreement is written out ; and ' Patau Sulamat,' 
(the safety of the keel) ; in the latter nothing can be 
claimed unless there be a total loss. It is, however, the 
popular form : when a vessel has been built and not paid 



408 



APPENDIX I. 



for, or wlien money is wanted to finish her, the creditor 
insists upon Patan Salamat before she goes to sea. I may 
here add, that refitting at Zanzibar, as at Mauritius, is 
exorbitant : a s^oar worth $15 to $20 will be charged $350 
to $370. 

Between Sept. 16, 1832, and May 26, 1834, the arrivals 
of square-rigged vessels were 41 with 7559 tons. Dr 
Ruschenberger gives the items as follows : United States, 
32 (5497 tons), including 4 whalers, and of these 20 were 
from Salim; English, 7 (1403), French, 1 (340), and 
Spanish, 1 (319). 

Between 1852 and 1857 the Island was visited by a 
greatly increased number, as is shown by the following 
table. 





'52. 


TONS. 


'63. 


TONS. 


'54. 1 TONS. 


'55. 


TONS. 


'56. 


TONS. 


American (U.S.) 


36 


9,187 


30 


7,519 


86 j 9,901 


28 


9,142 


24 


7,215 


English . . . . 


6 


1,627 




687 


2 1 1,300 


5 


1,609 


3 


1,517 


liarnburg . . . . 


10 


2,386 


14 


3,604 


15 1 3,981 


15 


3,698 


20 


5,438 


Freijcli . . . . 


14 


4,522 


18 


7,452 


18 1 6,598 


13 


5,523 


23 


10,579 


Arab 


5 


2,110 


9 


4,278 


6 2,113 


3 


1,448 


12 


3,938 


Spanish . . . . 


3 


624 


1 


200 


1 400 


2 


4C0 


2 


460 


Portuguese 






1 


215 


2 1 338 






3 


930 


Hanoverian 










1 1 220 










Prussian . , . . 










1 






1 


600 


Danish . . . . 










1 






1 


460 


Total 


74 1 20,456 


76 1 23,265 1 81 1 24,911 


66 


21,871 


89 


31,127 



Thus in five years the tonnage show an increase 
of 10,671. The French ships, however, whose arrivals 
have greatly increased, mostly came out in ballast, and 
loaded with sesamum, cocoa-meat, and cloves. Moreover, 
it became the custom to enter the sliip twice : if, for 
instance, she visited the coast after touching at the Island, 
she appeared a second time upon the lists after her return. 



APPENDIX 1. 



409 



Thus, whilst the tonnage was greatly advanced, export- 
ation did not keep pace with it. 

In 1858 the returns of merchant shipping arrivals at 
the port of Zanzibar showed 89 of all nationalities, with 
26,959 tons. In the next year this total fell off, owing 
to the cholera and political troubles, to 80 bottoms, with 
23,340 tons. In 1861-2 the commerce was carried on by 
55 ships, and 23 men-of-war visited or revisited the 
Island. In 1862-3 there were 57 trading vessels and 31 
cruisers (Commercial Eeports recorded at the Foreign 
Office from H. B. M.'s consuls). 

I found it impracticable to obtain any information 
concerning the average or the total value of native cargoes. 

Zanzibar being the general depot for this portion of 
the African coast, shows a list of exports contrasting 
greatly with its industry. The staple productions of the 
Island are the cocoa-nut and cloves — of these details have 
been given in the preceding pages. The produce of the 
coast is contained in slaves, in copal, and in ivory of the 
finest description, hides and cowries, rafters and red 
pepper, ambergris and beeswax, hippopotamus' teeth, 
and rhinoceros' horn. In 1859 the export of ivory 
amounted to 488,600 lbs. (value £146,666) ; of copal 
to 875,875 lbs. (value £37,166) ; and of cloves to 
4,860,100 lbs. (value £55,666). These figures are taken 
from the commercial reports of H. B. M.'s consuls, and are 
probably much understated. I have already mentioned 
most of the main items of exports. The following details 
will complete the list, and for further information I may 
refer the reader to Appendix No. I. (Commerce, Imports 
and Exports), the Lake Regions of Central Africa. 

Beeswax is produced in small quantities upon the 
Island ; the slaves, however, will not allow the hives to 



410 



APPENDIX I. 



remain unplundered — they devour tlie contents, wax and 
all. It is also brought from the Chole islet and from 
the mainland : here, as in Abyssinia and Harar, hives 
are hung to the tall trees about the villages. The 
produce is like our * virgin honey,' oily, but very impure : 
it greatly differs in taste ; some of it is excellent, other 
kinds are almost flavourless. Upon the coast there is 
a dark and exceedingly sweet variety often found with 
the small bee smothered in it : the people declare that 
a spoonful of it will cause intoxication, like the celebrated 
produce of Asia Minor. 

Hippopotamus' teeth in 1857 were still sent to Europe 
and to Bombay, princip:dly for making sword hilts 
and knife handles : in America porcelain was supplanting 
them at the dentists'. Rhinoceros' horns, mentioned in 
the Periplus about Rhapta (chap, xvii.), were exported 
to Arabia and Central Asia. Hides and skins, chiefly 
of bullocks and goats, with spoils of the wild cattle, 
the zebra and the antelope, were brought for exportation 
from the Northern coast. Ivory was, after slaves, the 
only produce for which caravans visited the far interior, 
and both articles, which the expense of free porterage 
rendered inseparable, were sold to retail dealers on the 
coast. Sometimes it was dragged over the ground protected 
by grass and matting, with cords made fast to holes 
bored in tho bamboo or hollow base fltting into the 
alveolar process. The best in the market was held to 
be the fine heavy material brought down from Ugogo 
by the Wanyamwezi porters, who, on their long journey, 
collect ivories of many different kinds. These are rufous 
outside, and abnormally heavy — a tusk apparently of 
60 lbs. will weigh in the scales 70. The duty varies 
according to tlie district which supplies it : for instance, 



APPENDIX I. 



411 



that of Unyamwezi is charged $14 for 36 lbs. ; Mombasah, 
Lamu, and Kilwa, $4 ; the Pangani and Tanga countries 
$8, and Somaliland only $2. In the African animal the 
female's tusk is often lonorer and thicker than in the lonor- 
legged variety of India and Ceylon. At the Cape of Good 
Hope, where the land is poor, the elephant may reach 
twelve feet, whilst northwards, where forage abounds, the 
average is three feet shorter, whilst the tusks are, 
according to travellers, much bulkier than in the taller 
beast. This may be explained by the more regular 
development of the defences where the animal is undis- 
turbed by man. Ivory grows as long as its owner grows. 
At Zanzibar they declare that the animal which bears 
monster tusks is not, as might be expected, of mammoth 
stature : it is a moderate-sized beast, high in the forehand, 
and sloping away behind, like a hyaena. We have found 
it necessary to preserve our elephants in Ceylon, but 
in Africa the grounds extend from 1^. lat. 10" to S. lat. 
25'^, and clean across the Continent. There is no present 
fear of the market wanting supply : the annual deaths 
of over 100,000 would be a mere trifle considering the 
extent of country over which the herds roam. 

Zanzibar exports her produce to the four quarters of 
the world as follows : 

Europe and the United States take cocoa, Kopra (dried 
meat of the nut), cocoa-nut oil, and orchilla ; copal, ivor^', 
cloves and stems, hippopotamus' teeth, tortoise-shell, and 
a little ambergris ; cowries, hides, goat-skins, horns, gums, 
beeswax, and valuable woods in small quantities. The 
exports to France are chiefly sesamum and Kopra. There 
is no direct trade with Great Britain. Vessels from the 
United States usually touch, before going home, at Aden 
and Maskat, where they fill up with coflee and dates. 



412 



APPENDIX L 



India demands chiefly ivory, copal, and cloves; slie also 
buys hippopotamns' tusks, rhinoceros* horns, cocoa-nuts, 
beeswax, tabkir or snuff, arrow- root, gums, and Zanzibar 
rafters. It is asserted in a journal of the R. Geographi- 
cal Society (vol. xii., March, 1856) that Zanzibar Island 
and Coast have an annual export and import trade of 
£300,000 with Western, and of £150,000 with Eastern 
India. Arabia takes the same articles as Hindostan. 
Madagascar prefers British and foreign manufactured 
goods and coarse Bombay earthenware, flowered basins, 
and similar goods. This trade was declining in 1857, 
and vessels were not allowed to enter any of the ports. 
The Mrima or African coast requires American domestics, 
indigo-dyed cloths, cotton chocks, common broad-cloths 
(especially crimson), Indian and Maskat stuffs*, Surat and 
otlier caps, china and iron wares, brass chains, and brass 
and iiou w^ires (Nos. 7 and 8). It also imports Venetian 
beads, a very delicate article of trade, each district having 
its own peculiar variety ; subject also to perpetual change, 
and refusing to take any of the 400 kinds except those 
in fashion. Finally, a dangerous commerce, and highly 
disadvantageous to the white race, was carried on in arms 
and ammunition : coarse gunpowder was supplied in kegs ; 
and one European house exported, it is said, in a single 
year 13,000 muskets, thus overdoing the trade. The weapon 
must have a black butt, and an elephant on the lock, 
otherwise it is hardl}' saleable ; moreover, the price should 
not exceed three to four shillings. The old Tower musket 
was a prime favourite. 

The following is a summary of the exports from the 
port of Zanzibar in 1859, when the East African Expedition 
left the coast. 



APPEXDIX I. 



413 



Exported to 


Local Money. 


EngUsh Money. 




German Crowns. 




D. 


Great Britain 


25,050 


5 566 15 


(J 


United States 


534.100 


118.688 IS 





France 


247,500 


55,000 





Hamburg 


161,000 


35,777 15 





British India 


467,500 


103,888 IS 





Cutch 


313,400 


69,644 10 





Arabia 


105.200 


23.377 14 


6 


East Coast of Africa 


1,233,900 


274,200 





West Coast of Africa 


230,0i)0 


51,111 2 


6 


Madao:ascar 


73,850 


16,411 2 





Total Value of Exports . . 


3,391,200 


753,666 15 






The principal articles of export from the port of 
Zanzibar were as follows : 



Names of Articles. 



Produce of the Island of Zanz 
East Coast of Africa 



Ivory 


. . lbs. 


488.600 


Cloves 




4,860,100 


Gum Copal 




875,875 


Hides 


. . number 


95,000 


Cowries 


. . lbs. 


8,016,000 


Sesamum Seed 


• • '> 


8,388,360 


Cocoa-nuts 




1,750.000 


Kopra (dried Cocoa-nut) 




2,450,000 


Cocoa-nut Oil 


¦ ¦ 


252.000 


Eafters 


. . number 


20,000 


Eed Pepper 


. . lbs. 


176,000 



bar, and 



Value of Local Produce exported | 

[ 

Articles of Foreign Jtfanufacture. 
American Cottons . . . . bale; 
English Cottons . . 



Indian Cottons . . 

Muscat- Loongees 
Venetian Beads . . 
Brass AVire . . 
jNLuskets . . 
Gunpowder . . 
China and Iron Ware 
BuUion . . 



boxes I 
bales j 
pieces 
bales 
barrels 

number 
barrels 



German crowns 



Quantities 
Exported. 



6,200 
950 
100 
1,100 
13,200 
200 
900 
225 
20,400 
10,500 

370,000 



ViUue in 
English Money. 



Value of 21 chief Articles of Export 





3. 


D. 


146,666 


18 





55,666 


14 





37,166 


18 





25,553 


12 





51.444 


9 





20.S00 








2.711 


5 





13,333 


7 





4,066 


15 





1,2-50 








1,422 


6 





360,082 


4 





103,890 








35,895 








50,089 








10,000 








25. 565 


12 





8.444 


9 





15.111 


o 





11,666 


15 





7,111 








8-> oio 


5 





710,067 








414 



APPENDIX 1. 



The following is a summary of the value of tlie import 
and export trade of Zanzibar, borrowed from the consular 
reports of 1864. 



1861-62 Imports 
Exports 



1862-63 Imports 
Exports 



Total 



Total 

Total increase clurinjr 1862-63 



£ 

361,837 
427,016 

788,853 

544,903 
467,053 

1,011,956 



223,103 

The distribution of the above trade was as follows : — 

I M POUTS. 



From what place. 


18(il-6-J. 


1862-63. 


Increase. 


Decrease. 






£ 


£ 


£ 


£ 


Utiitod Kin;:(lom 






24,908 


21,908 




liritish Iniliii 




117,790 


157,660 


39,870 




l'rot»itt'(l States of India , . 




19,7S9 


18,336 




1,453 


Arabia and iNrsiaii flulf . . 




10.063 


10.572 


609 


Coast of Africa anil adjacent 


sland.s 


115,856 


206,394 


90,638 










34,500 


6,195 




Italy 






7,263 


7,263 




Ciiitod States of America . . 




27.789 


26,179 




1,610 






41,242 


62,674 


11,432 




Total . . 


£ 


361,837 


644,902 


183,066 





Zanzibar imports from Europe and America silks, 
cottons, chintzes, and calicoes, muskets and gunpowder, 
beads and gunny-bags, notions and knick-nacks. The 
Americans chiefly send * domestics * from the Massachu- 
setts Mills. This year some thousand pieces of English 
cotton were sold, to the detriment of that specM'jdIy, and 
in 1803 even American merchants were compelled by war 
to import Manchester goods. French vessels bring out 
little but specie, there being hardly any demand for 
French manufactured jroods. Tlie total of French im- 



APPENDIX 1. 



415 



ports in 1859 was $516,451, of which $400,000 were bul- 
lion and $41,000 Venetian beads. Imports from Great 
Britain pass through India. Hamburg ships are laden 
with commissioned articles, mostly English, — glass ware 
and mirrors, English lead, sail-cloth in small pieces, broad- 
cloths, and similar articles. From India come English 
manufactured goods, cotton piece-goods, long-cloths, in- 
ferior broad-cloths, beads, brass and iron wires, coarse cut- 
lery (English and foreign), bar and round iron, hardware, 
English muskets, tin, pig-lead, copper, spelter, china and 
earthenware ; cereals in general, but especially rice, ghi, 
8weet-oil (cocoa), bitter-oil (sesamum), spices and frank- 
incense, sugar and sugar-candy. Maskat supplies prin- 
cipally ornamental cloths (lungi, &c.), salt, sharks'-flesh, 
and fish-oil. The African Mrima contributes chiefly 
slaves, ivory, and copal, coffee and tobacco, cocoas and 
cloves ; cereals, especially Jowari or holcus ; ghi, cowries, 
and other shells, Zanzibar rafters and firewood, rhinoceros' 
horns and hippotamus' teeth. Small pigs of excellent cop- 
per, and malachite of a fine quality, have been brought 
from the country of the Cazembe, and the analogy of 
Angola would lead us to expect rich mines in the interior. 
Madagascar contributes only tortoise-shell and a little 
rice, the latter husked or parboiled, to prevent it being 
used as seed by the importers. This custom is connected 
with some superstition : a few years ago the inhabitants 
of Socotra sold some she-goats to a ship's crew, and com- 
plained that they were not visited by rain for several 
seasons. In 1863, wishing to introduce cocoa into Fer- 
nando Po, I bought a sack of seed from Prince Island, 
and found that all had been scalded. The trade with 
India and Arabia is carried on by ' Daus ' and Batelas, of 



416 



APPENDIX I. 



wMcli there are neither registers nor returns. "Weights 
and measures vary greatly at Zanzibar, where no three 
exactly correspond. There are no standards : stone is 
used instead of metal, and the rapacity of the seller has 
introduced notable differences into the sizes and contents 
of one and the same denomination. 

The Wakiyyah, or ounce, the imit here as amongst 
most of the Arabic-speaking races, is the weight of a 
German dollar = Engl, avoirdupois, 15.50 drs. 

12 Wakiyyat = 1 Ruba Man (i Mauncl) = 11 oz. 10.50 drs. 



IG Wakiyyat (& 1 Anna) = 1 Rati (lb.) = 




15 


8.00 


24 Wakiyyat = 1 Nisf Man (i Maund) = 


lib. 


7 


5.00 


48 Wakiyyat, or German crowns = 1 Man 








(Maund) = 


2 lbs. 


,14 


10.00 


2 Man (§00 weight) = 1 Kaylah 








(measure) = 


5 


13 


4.00 


6 Kaylah = 1 Farsaleh (fraislc) = 


35 








10 Farasilch = 1 Jizleh = 


350 








2 Jizleh = 1 Kandi (Candy) = 


700 









The weight of the German crown thus reguhitcd all 
others, and of the former IG may be assumed in round 
numbers to form the Rati, or Arab lb. Of course no 
standard is kept. Without wear the 1 6 coins should weigh 
449.568 grammes, or about 4 grammes less than the 
English avoirdupois. According to Captain GuiUain the 
average weiglis only 442 grammes, and the loss becomes 
7 grammes. Thus the Man, which should be 1.348 Kilo., 
is reduced to 1.320; and the Farsaleh of 12 Man from 
10.184 Kilos to 15.912. Tractically, in order to faci- 
litate business, the Farsaleh or unit of higher value is made 
equal to 35 light lbs. avoirdupois or 15.874 Kilos, but the 
natives still assume the weight of the Man at 48 piastres. 
The Kandi is the unit of freight : thus the voyage to Bom- 
bay is said to cost $4.50 to $5 per Candy. The Kandi for 



APPEXDIX 1. 



417 



ivory = 21 Farasileh (= 333.354: Kilos), for copal and 
cloYes = 22 Farasileh. Tonnage is represented by the 
Jizleh, a very uncertain weight, of which 2.103 to 3 are 
equivalent to the Kandi. 

The EngKsh pound avoirdupois is generally used. 
The Maskat Maiind is 8f lbs. or 9 lbs., trebKng that 
of Zanzibar, 2 lbs. 14 oz. 10 drs. Ivory and cloves, 
coffee, gums, and similar articles are mostly sold by the 
Farsaleh.^ 

The measures of length, besides the English foot, 
which is generally recognized in commerce, are — 

2| ritr (the short span be- 7 ^ t v^. / to • i ^ 

* X 2 t n . f = 1 Zira'a,orcabit (= 18 inclies). 

tween thumb and forennger) ) 

2 Shibr (long spans between ) i v o l-^ 2 

^, 1 J • 1 • ^ \ =1 Zira'a, or cnbit.'' 
thumb and anncularis) 3 

2 Zira'a = 1 War (= 1 yard). 

2 War (4 Zira'a) = 1 Ba'a, or fathom. 

The Kadam or pace is roughly applied as a land 
measure. The learned use as itinerary distances the 
Hindu * Kos ' and the Persian Farsakh (parasang), with- 
out, however, any regularity. Marches are reckoned by 
the Sa'at, or hour, somewhat like the pipe of the S. African 
Boer. 

The corn measures are — 

11 Rati to 2 Rati = 1 Kibabah. 

4 Kibabah = 1 Kavla. 

5 Kaylah to 16 Kaylah = 1 Farrah ( ^ ;). 

60 Kaylah = 1 Jizleh. ^ 

112 Kaylah to 120 Kaylah = 1 Khandf. 

^ Parsaleh, in the plural Farasileh, is supposed to be an Arabic word, 
but it is unintelligible to the Arabs, except when they sell coffee. I 
can only suggest that it is derived from our parcel, and that we, on the 
other hand, have taken from it the word fraisle (of coffee). 

- Capt. Guillain finds amongst the Wasawahili that the cubit 
averages 45 centi-metres, and amongst the Somal 48 to 49. This agrees 
VOL. II. 27 



418 



APPENDIX I. 



The Kaylali, which, is the standard, varies from 5 lbs. 
to 8 lbs., according to the grain or pulse measured. In 
parts of the Benadir it is a little more than half that of 
Zanzibar, and expresses only 2.50 Kibabahs. The Farrah 
also is of many different capacities ; it is generally a jar 
whose capacity is determined by its contents in Kaylahs. 

The currency at present is — 

8 Pice = 1 Anna (in India 4 pice) here a nominal 

coin = 3 if/. 
2 Annas = 1 Tumni {^d.). 

26 Pice = 1 Pistoline, or small Robo. 

32 Pice = 1 Robo (Ruba' kirsli, quarter dollar = 

1.9. l\d.). 

10 Annas (4 Robos, 

or 12S Pice) = 1 Riyal or German crown = 4.?. 2^/. 

(here equal to the Spanish dollar). 
9 5 dollars = 1 Half-doubloon. 

18 or 10 dollars = 1 Doubloon. 

German crowns or Maria Theresa (the standard coin) 
now becoming rare, the following coins have been declared 
legal tenders at the rates here specified. 

The gold ounce = Maria Theresa $15.00 

English sovereign 4.75 

Gold Napoleon (20 francs) 3.75 

„ (10 francs) l.^ths 

„ (5 francs) 

Silver 5 -franc piece 0.94 pice 

Indian rupee 0.47 

Formerly the Austrian Maria Theresa, coined at 
Milan, known as Girsh Aswad (black dollar), was the 
only legal tender. Its weight should be grammes 28.098. 
The Spanish or Pillar dollar, called Girsh Abyaz (white 

with my observations. The latter race is not only tall and gaunt ; it 
has also a peculiarly long and simian forearm : moreover, when cloth 
is to be measured, the biggest man in the village is generally summoned. 



APPEXDIX I. 



419 



dollar), Abu Madfa' (the 'Father of Cannon' from the 
columns), Girsh ^loghrebi (the western dollar), and Abu 
Takeh (Father of T\^indow, whence the conrmon trade term 
*Patac generally equalled it in value. At times, how- 
ever, there was an agio of 2 per cent, in favour of the 
Austrian. The ^lexican dollar suffered discount of 5 to 10 
per cent, in favour of the ^laria Theresa. The Bolivian 
was unknown. The Company's rupee was current, but 
valued at 220 to 223 per 100 Austrians. After abundant 
dunning on the part of the French, who with scant 
conscience or delicacy insisted upon theii* silver being 
taken, the late Sayyid ordered 110 five-franc pieces to be 
the equivalent of 100 Maria Theresas : the bazar, however, 
demanded 112. 

It is curious that while the Half- doubloon never varies, 
the Doubloon is worth sometimes $18, sometimes $19. 

Cloth is sold by the following measures : 



2 Shibr = 1 Zira'a, or cubit. 

4 Zira'a = 1 Saub, Tobe, or Shukkah. 

2 Saub = 1 Doti. or Duti. 

2 Doti = 1 Jurah, here generally pronounced Gora. 

20 to 30 yards = 1 Takah. 



The Saub or Tobe is at Zanzibar half-size of theSomaK 
country. The Takah or piece varies greatly. That of 
* Merkani,' American domestics, is generally of 30 yards. 
The Arabs are no judges of broad-cloth : remnants are 
usually imported, as none woidd venture upon a bale : 
often half a foot will be stolen from the whole length of 
the cloth, and a false selvage sewed on. 

Beads are thus sold — 



1 ZinVa 
35 lbs. 



= 1 Kaytah, or Kdta, a string about one cubit long. 
= 1 Parsaleli. 



420 



APPENDIX 1. 



Ghee is sold by the eighth, quarter, or half Maund, or 
Maund (3 lbs.). The Kiski, or earthen pot, contains from 
50 to 52 lbs. Yegetables and manioc are sold by the 
Pakhacheh (^^l^jj) ' package,' or bundle, which varies 
greatly in size, according as the article is dear or cheap. 

Salt is thus sold — 

10 Kaylah (GO lbs.) = 1 Kandlia (a basket). 

17 Farasileh (of Cutch salt) = 1 Kandhi. 

22 Farasileh (Surat) = 1 Kandhi. 

Coffee is sometimes sold by the Farsalch of 7^ lbs., 
because that is the Mocha weight. 

Dates are sometimes sold by the Farsalch of 70 lbs. 
Cocoa-nuts by the 100 or 1000. 

Timber and hides b}^ the Kurjah, or score. Fuel in little 
bundles. 

The following is a tariff of articles purchasable in the 
bazar during the month of ^lay, 1857. The reader, how- 
ever, is warned that the price of almost everything was 
then exceedingly high. 
Grains. 

Rice (Bombay best; 17 Gcnnaii crowns per Kaiidi, 
Bengal It ,, „ 

Zanzibar best 1 flcniian crown per 5 Kaylali. 

„ 2nd quality I „ 5^ „ 

„ Ikd „ 1 „ ^ „ 

Mangalore I ,, „ 

Indian (red) I „ „ 7 „ 

Helens or Jowari (Ar. Durrah and Taain, Kis. Mtama, Ang. Kafir 
Com)— 

Coast Grain 1 (jcrnian crown per 15 Kaylah. 
Indian 1 „ „ 10 „ 

At harvest time even 130 Kaylah may be bought for 
a dollar. 



APPENDIX L 



421 



Muhindy or maize — 

Coast grain 1 German crown per IG Kaylali. 
Wheat (all imported) — 

1st quality 10 German crowns per Kandi. 

2nd „ 9 
Flour (America) 4 „ per barrel. 

„ (Maskat) 2 to 3 „ „ Juniyah. 

Bajri, Arabic Dukhn, Guinea 
corn, Pennisetum typhoid- 
eum (imported) the best 

from Cutch 1 German crown per 13 Kaylah. 

Of this grain not more than 50 sacks are grown on 
the Island. 

Pulse. 

Lobiya (best aud largest is 
the white from Mozam- 
bique) 1 German crown per 8 Kaylah. 

Lobiya (smaller reddish) 1 „ „ 10 „ 

„ (small red) 1 „ „ 12 „ 

„ (inferior) 1 „ „ 14 „ 

Ghana, Arab. Hummus, Per- 
sian Xukhud, Kis. 'dengu' 
Anglo-Indian 'gram ' from 

Port. Grao (Mandavie best) 12 German crowns per Kandi. 
Ghana (Banjaru red, called 

black) 8 
Ghana (Jambusiri yellow, 

called white) 8 „ „ 

Sesamum (Tel, Kunjid, or 

Futa) 1 German crown per 7 Kaylah. 

This article has greatly varied of late in price : from 
6 to 8 J Kaylah have been bought for a dollar. 

Thur ' (Arab. Tiiriyan Kis. Baradi) 1 German crown per 10 Kaylah. 
Mung (Persian Mash Kis. Chiroko)x „ „ 9 „ 

(small and green, boiled and eaten in pillows.) 



• The Banyans import this pulse (Cajanus Indicus) split, skin, boil, 
and eat it with ghi ; sometimes with rice and ghi, like Dall. It is 
supposed to be a very windy food. 



422 



APPENDIX L 



Urat ^ (or Papri Kis. P'hawi) 1 German crown per 10 Kaylah. 

Mustard seed 1 „ „ 12 „ 

Maliogo or Manioc, five small pieces for a pice. It is extraordinarily 
dear. 

Cucumbers — three per pice. They are brought from the coast. 
Betel-nut — from seven to eight per pice. 

Betel-leaves— the Rabtah of 30 leaves (it sometimes contains 50) 
for a pice. 

Fruits. 

Cocoa-nuts — 7|- German crowns per 1000. 

Mangos now a fancy price — half a dollar will be paid for the Kafir, 
or basket, which costs 4 or 5 pice in the season. 
Jack-fruit — 3, 4, or 5 pice a piece. 

Oranges now in season. Three pice for 50 or GO good fruit, and 
100 if inferior. 

Plantains are out of season. From half a dollar to two dollars 
per bunch. 

Pine-apples rare — 5, G, or 7 pice each. When cheap they are to be 
had for half a pice. 



Dates. 

Best quality 
2nd „ 
3rd „ 
4th 

Ghee. 

Best quality 
2nd „ 
3rd 



f German crown 
11 Annas 
10 „ 
9 „ 

8 German crowns 

n 

6 



per Farsaleh. 



per Farsaleh. 



Meats. 

Goats' flesh 1 German crown per 10 lbs. 

Mutton 1 „ „ 11 lbs. 

Beef is sold by the bullock, costing on an average $8. 
Fowls— 8 large, 12 half-fowls, or 16 chickens, $1. 
Ducks — (the pair), $1. 
Geese — (each), $1. 

Sharks' meat, salted— one piece about 1 oz. weight per pice. 
Eggs— One per pice ; when cheap, three. 
Milk— From G to 8 pice per bottle. 



' Unknown in Persia, this little black grain, like poppy seed, comes 
from Bgmbay, and is eaten boiled with ghi. 



APPENDIX I. 



423 



Sugars. 

Soft 3| German crowns per Tarsaleh. 

Candy 6 „ 

Halwa 1 „ per 8 Maunds. 

Honey is not procurable at tliis season. Bees-wax varies from 
7 to 8 dollars per Farsaleii. 

Salt (imported) — 1 German crown per 43 Kaylah. During the 
season 60 Kaylah may be had. 

Coffees. 
Mocha 
Cochin 

Tea — A very inferior kind is sold by Kojahs for 4 Annas, and 
another but little better for 6 Annas, the pound. 

Oils. 

Sweet (cocoa) 2| German crowns per Farsaleh. 

Bitter (sesamum) 3| „ „ 

Turpentine 2 „ per gallon. 

Linseed (bad) If „ „ 



6 German crowns per Earsaleh. 



5i 



Spices. 

Black pepper 
Red ditto 
Cloves 
Ginger 
Nutmegs 

Garm Masallah. 
Zira (cummin) 
Garlic 
Coriander 
Cinnamon 
Cardamoms 
Turmeric, best quality 2 

„ second 
Ginger 
Camphor 

Metals. 
Lead 
Tin, best 

„ second quality 
Lron (Swedish) 
„ (English) 



3| German crowns per Farsaleh. 

now fetches fancy prices. 
1| German crowns per Farsaleh. 

-•-4 3> 33 

30 



3 German crowns per Farsaleh. 

4 3 5 



1 

n 

27 



If 

6 Annas 



per 15 Kaylah. 
per Farsaleh. 



per pound. 



1 German crown per 3 Maunds (9 lbs.). 
10 „ per Farsaleh. 

9 

» 13 

1 and 6 Annas 



424 



APPENDIX 1. 



Brass wire (No. 8) 
(No. 7) 
(fine) 
Iron wire (No. 8) 
„ (No. 7) 
(fine) 



\\ German crowns per Maund. 

1 5J 5J 



There is no copper wire, as the Arabs refuse to pay the 
price ; yet some tribes in the interior demand it. 



Various articles. 

Copal (best) 
„ (2nd) 
„ (3rd) 
„ (inferior) 

Wax Candles 



9 German crowns per Earsaleh. 
7 

6^ 
4 

12 Annas the dozen. 



Formerly the Americans brought excellent candles ; 
the Arabs, however, fancied that they contained pigs' 
grease, and now none are procurable. 

French Writing-paper 4 German crowns per ream. 



2nd quality 
3rd quality 
Post-paper 
Portuguese 

Hides. 
Brava 
Pemba 
Common 

Goat-skins. 
1st quality 
2nd ditto 

Soap {European). 
20 bars, in box 
12 cakes, perfumed 

6 cakes, in box 
12 cakes, inferior 
Country soap 
Potash 



2 

14 
^ 

Oi 



23 
10 

n 



Annas 

German crowns 



German crowns per Korjah (20). 



2^ German crowns 



1| 
1 



German crown. 



1^ 
I 



per Farsaleh. 



A few cigars are sold by the shopkeepers. They are 



APPENDIX I. 



425 



of very inferior quality, and cost about lialf a dollar for a 
bundle of 25. 

Paint. 



per Earsaleh. 



Red, per tub 




Black „ 


2 


White „ 




Blue „ 


2 


Pitch 


2 


Tar 





APPENDIX II. 
A. B. 



THEEMOMETEIC OBSEEVATIONS IN EAST AFEICA. 



APPENDIX A. 427 



02 02 



02 




o o o o ^ 

O Oi >-H 00 CC 



O C5 t>- 
O lO >— I !>• 

00 TtH O 



_:_:^"^_;_:oot— ° o o o ooc 

CO -M CO JO CO CO t^l>.t^t^ 



2 c. q o o - ^ ^ f . ;1 CO ^ ^ 

aC X 00 00 ,_i 



CO CO CO (M CO 



02 02 



02 02 



O C<1 TjH r-l VO O 

¦-lacoociooci 
d o d d C5 d *^ 



O CO «o 
O Ci Ci o 

<M O GO O o 



^ a a ci 
02 



X i< « 



cj !3 

:2 o 

- NO 

i = N J 

• • • .... I §^ « 2 

^ ... § -c ^- p; « ^ 2 

O g £ O ^ gcS-^ , 



s s 



428 



APPENDIX A. 



Ttr0CC'-ii-<0' ^ ^ 



(MO^OCSOt^ OOr-j—t .... 



O O O O O WW 
CO (M CC CC CN <N 



CO «3 CO CO 
00 GO 00 00 



^ 1^ ^* Izi 



c<icooooco-* 2S2^S 
co-M'ocoo^o o S2?2S'^ 

d o d d d 00 o^- o^' 

00 00 00 00 



CO CO CO CO 



f4 

CO 

,?o2gp4p4p4'^ 

' (N !2; ^' l^i cs 

w 

125 



to o -M o GO 52 S 52 ?S 
(xooc><co>oaco o 52S5222 

d ci d d d d ^ ?- 5- °- ^ ^ 



CO CO ro ^^ CO 



O CO 
00 00 CO 00 



02 CC 

WW 



Oi O 05 o 

O rH O 



a; 2 «) 

o fl 



dddddd**"i^ f^oDoo 

CO CO CO CO CO CO i>. 



WW 
mm 



li 



r o S S g a 

•5: < 3^ Ph' ^ 
§ O CO o -5 



p^ p; 

o 



"S ST 



.2 



U O i> 

O W W H O 



o „ ? ? 



(fl "3 ~ » 

;goo ^ ^ ^ 

CO cs aj ^ 

U- CJh <^ 



APPENDIX B. 



429 




430 



APPENDIX B. 



bo O 

¦« to 



2 > 



CI r3 



foi is § 

" ^ 



to 



c to ^ 
^2 



•-H es ?-J CIS 



^ « g 

- o . o 

^ ^ 



43 05 
fco CJ 



2 S5 
o 

s s 

CC ^ 

o -2 



t-. 00 00 o 

O Oj C5 >o 
'-' o o o 
<M 

to § 
PL. 

'S 



o 

to 



to % 



APPENDIX B. 431 



o 
o 

w 

o 

H 

P^ 
H 
P^ 

o 

Q 

<1 
1^ 

CO 

o 

H 

CO 

« 
O 



. 1 

O CO 
O .—1 



S3 



C3 -5 

S P^ o 



Hut, Chogwe 



Hut, Choffwe 

















m 


rn 


ate 














un 


s 


ft 


GO C: 








CO 
















'?>1 




(M 







432 



APPENDIX B. 



•t 



o 
to 

CS 



o 

t i 

CO 

^ O 



Governor's House 



o 

CO 


O 
CO 


o 


QC 


00 


00 



Governor's House 
Panga-ui 



APPENDIX 11. 
C. 

METEOEOLOGICAL OBSEEYATIONS 

]\[ADE IX lSo7, 1858, 1859. 



VOL. II. 



28 



OBSEEYATIOXS MADE EEOM KAOLE TO ZUNGOMEEO, 
DUEIXG THE MONTHS OF JUNE AND JULY, 1S57. 



DAY 

June 28 Barometer at 10 a.m., 30.336 ; at 4 p.m., 30.G16. Therm, 
at 10 a.m., 837(81°) ; at 4 p.m., 977(85°). Zungomero. Cold 
in morning, 68°. Clear. Cumulus and Ingli wind at 10 a.m. 
Hot midday. Cumulus (5). "Wind fell; rose again about 4 
p.m. 

29 A march. Cold. Pleasant hot clear sun. Clouds, 4 from S.W. 
At 4 a.m. cool S.AV. wind, therm. 84°. 

30 Kaole, Kinga-ni, Eoma-ni. Barometer at 10 a.m., 30.438; at 
4 p.m., 30.232. Therm, at 10 a.m., S3°/Sr; at 4 p.m., 80778^ 
Morning hot. At 9 a.m. clouds, cumuhis, and nimbus. At 11 
a.m. rain. Clouds and heat-showers all day. 

July 1 !March. ^Ikwaju la ]Mvua-ni. Normal Mcnilier. Clouds 
fleecy, misty, came up with sun. Heavy rain, liuge drops about 
1 p.m. Cloudy during day. Fine night. AVind S.W. 

2 [March. Morning fine. Nimbus about noon. No rain. AYind 
JS.W. 

3 ^larch. Same as yesterday. AVind S.AY. 

4 Halt. Sick, uncertain. ])ay as usual. At night, moon, rain- 
])ow, thick clouds. Violent rain. 3Icho'o, between 2 IMasikas, 
lasts one day, and then goes off for a time. 

5 ^farch. Clear morning. Hot sun. ^list clouds and nimbus. 
Few drops of rain. Splendid night. 

6 ^larch. Clear morning. Hot sun. [Mist clouds and nimbus. 
Few drops ot" rain. Splendid night. 

7 Barometer at 10 a.m., 30.078; at 4 p.m., 30.086. Therm, at 
10 a.m., 83"/81" ; at 4 p.m., Hr//H^\ Clear morning. Hot sun. 
INIist clouds and nimbus. Few drops of rain. Jligh wind. 

8 [March. AV^ild day. Ihi'in frccpient, and in huge drops. Furious 
winds. At night cloudy, wind S.W., as usual. 

9 March. Alternately hot, cold, and rainy. Violent gusts. Eain 
heavy before moon rose. Heavy dew. Wind S.W. 

10 March. Morning cloudy. Clear niul hot about noon. Fleecy 
clouds. [No rain. AV'ind light and S.W. 

11 Barometer at 10 a.m., 29.32."); nt 4 p.m., 29.320. Therm, at 
10 a.m., 76776" ; at 4 p.m., 78776'. Cloudy morning. 

12 March. [Madege [Madogo. Day fine. Wind and clouds from 
S.W. Clouds, cumulus after 7 and 8. AVind high. 

13 [March. Kidunda. Day exactly like yesterday. 

14 [March. [Mgeta. Day normal. Cool in morning (7(X' or 71"), 
hot in midday, clouds and cumulus from S.AV., and cold at night 
(680- 



APPEyDix a 



435 



15 March. Kiruru. Day at first misty. Hot sun at noon. Heavy 
nimbi from S.W. Torrents of rain at night. 

16 Halt. Kiruru. Too sick to observe. Steamy hot day. Damp 
and disagreeable. IS'imbi from S.W. at niglit. About 8 p.m. 
torrents of rain. 

17 Halt. Kiruru. Too sick to ohccrve. Dull day, no sim, wind, 
or rain. Sky all clouded over from S.AY. 

18 March. To Duthumi. Day close. Few clouds from S."\Y. 
Morning clear. Hot sun. Cloudy afternoon. Cold gusty night. 

19 to 23 Halt. Too sick to observe. At Duthumi, perfectly uni- 
form weather. AVind, probably from proximity of hills, from 
jS". and jS'.E., cold and high. Hot sun. Cloudy morn and 
afternoon. Cold night, 66". Xo rain whatever. 

2-1 March. To Bakera. Eed hot day with cold wind. Few cirri 

from S.W. Cold night. 
25 March. To Zungomero. Bright morning. At noon heavy 

nimbi from S. and S. W. No rain. 
23 Halt. Too sick to observe. Little wind. Hot occasional sun. 

Cloudy from S.W. In hut therm, never varied from between 

70° and 80\ 

27 Halt. Too sick to observe. Cool cloudy day from the S.AY. 
Impossible to make observations. Yery damp country, and mists 
easily rise. 

Eemaeks. — Air, as Baloch say, lighter and more healthy than 
Zanzibar, 

Showers, accompanied and followed by rafiiiles of cold wind. 



OBSERVATIONS MADE AT ZUNGOMERO, ETC., DURING THE 
MONTHS OF JULY AND AUGUST, 1857. 



Climates — 

1. Zungomero and Rivers — Rain every clay or night. Violent bursts after 
every 2 or 3 days. Very unwholesome. S.W. wind. Cold from below. 

2. Goma Hills — Eog, mist in morn. Then clear day. Cold S. wind. Whole- 
some cool nights. 

3. In Rut'uma and Usagara Hills — Very cold and hot, 50" and 60° at 
night, and dew, 90° and 100° in day. Rain and drizzle. Cold high E. winds. 
Healthy, because high. 

DATE, JULY AND AUGUST, 1857. 

1 Barometer at 10 a.m., 29.320 ; at 4 p.m., 29.028. Temperature of air at 
10 a.m., 73°/75° ; at 4 p.m., 79°/76°. Direction of wind at sunrise, S.W. ; 
at 10 a.m., S.W. ; at 4 p.m., S.W. — Remaiiks. High wind, S.W. Drops 
of rain. Clear and sunshine at times.* 

2 Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 76°/73'', at 4 p.m., 7G°/74°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, S.W. ; at 10a.m., S.W. — Rem. Clouds higher. Drops of 
rain. A rather clear night. 

3 Temperature of air at 10 a m., 74°/71'' ; at 4 p.m., 79°/70°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, S.W. ; at 10 a.m., S.W. ; at 4 p.m., S.W. — Rem. Eine 
morning. Heavy nimbus from S. Day clear. Hot sun. Torrents of rain 
at night. 

4 Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 74"/72° ; at 4 p.m., 76774°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, S.E. ; at 10 a.m., S.E. ; at 4 p.m., S.E. — Rem. Hot 
sun. Nimbus from E. Rain from E. and S.E., at 3 p.m. 

5 Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 73°/'70°; at 4 p.m., 7S°/75°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, E. ; at 10 a.m., E. ; at 4 p.m., E. — Rem. Dewy morn. 
Hot sun. Nimbus from S.E. ]lain at 2 p.m. Finer day. 

6 Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 75°/72° ; at 4 p.m., 81°/71°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, S.E. ; at 10 a.m., S.E. ; at 4 p.m., S.E. — Rem, Dawn, 
rain. Eine day. Cumuli on horizon. At 2 p.m. tourbillon and dust. No 
rain. High wind all night. 

7 March. Very fine morn. Hot sun. Cloud at 10 a.m. Cold wind near 
river. Then hot sun. In mountains heavy nimbus at 4 p.m. from S.W. 
Cleared off. Tourbillon at night about 12 p.m. Cloudless night. 

8 Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 80°/7S°; at 4 p.m., 85°/84°. Direction of 
wind at sunrise, E.; at 10 a.m., S.E. Cloudless morn. Clouds about 10 
a.m. from E. Eine hot day. Dew very heavy. 59° in morn. 

9 March. Direction of wind at sunrise, E. ; at 10 a.m., E. Gloomy morn. 
Clouds at 1 p.m. Eine and clear even. At dawn, therm. 54". Copious 
dew. Healthy, cold. 

10 Intent. (Chya K'hengc.) Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 76°/75° ; at 4 p.m., 
82"/79°. Direction of wind at sunrise, W. and by N. ; at 10 a.m., W. ; at 
4 p.m., W. Cirrus in morn. All over lieavy niml)i from W. at 12, and at 
3 p.m. Perfectly clear night. Stars burning brighter every day, — Eroin 8 
to 10 in tent Mzizi Mdogo. (No rain in these hills. Cold, line, and healthy.) 
Rufuta. Mfuru-ni. Muhama R. 

11 March. Clear hot morn. Eleecy clouds at 10 a.m. Heavy nimbi from 
W. Therm, in shade of tree at 10 a.m. ; 87° at 3 p.m. ? ; at 5 p.m. sky 
covered. Clear night. Dew, clouds on hill-tops. Cold wind from N. at 
10 p.m. 

12 March. Clear hot morn. Heat clouds at 7.30 a.m. Wind N. Day, cloudy 
(cumuli high) with flashes of sun. Night clouded with thin clouds. 

» Last good observation of barometer. Two tlieimomcters (F.) used, attached and detached. 



APPESDIX C. 



437 



13 March. Wet io^ on liill-tops. Therm. 7^". Did not clear till 10 a.m. 
Fiery hot day. Fine cool night. Heavy dew. 

14 Mareli. Cloudy morn. Then heavy nimbi from hill-tops, S.E. Spitting 
of rain from hills. At 9 a.m. clear. Hot at noon. Fiery sun and clouds. 

15 Halt. Sunny day. Few heat-clouds. Flills clear. Cold night. Climate 
warmer than before. 

16 Ditto in all points. 

17 March, (Muhama.) Cool morn. Very hot day. At night rain-drops. 

18 Halt, Furious hill-wiud from S. and S.AV. Clouds, and pleasant day. 
Cold dewy night. jSTo rain. Land dried up. 

19 Halt. Fine day. S. wind in gusts and raffales. Clouds as usual when 
sun strong. Cool dewy night, 

20 Ditto. Climate sensibly warmer. 

21 March. (Makata.) Cloudy morn at 10 a.m. Cumuli and sun mitigated 
by high S.W. wind. Night alternately cloudy and clear. Climate warm. 

22 March. (M'yombo.) Dewy morn. Fiery sun. High S. wind. In after- 
noon heavy nimbi from S. Cold dewy night. 

23 Marcli. (Mbumi.) Fine cool moru. Heavy dew clouds. Very close at S 
a.m. Pleasant S.W. wind at 9. Gentle wind under hills. Cool clear 
night. 

21 March. (Kadctamare.) Cloudy dawn. Hot sun. Fiery afternoon. Few 
high cirri. Cool evening. Very cold night. Therm. 5S° and GO**. Dew 
heavy. 

25 March. (Muinyi.) Cold, clear, dewy morn. Tlien fiery sun and a few 
cirri. S, winds. Cool pleasant night. 

26 Halt. Morn cloudy. Heavy nimbi. Violent S. wind. Night cool and 
pleasant. Hill-tops, jSListy morn, and even. 

27 March. (Nidabi.) Cloudy morn. Then small rain from hills. Cold raw 
wind from S.E. Furious heat at morn. Few cirri. Hot till 12, then 
cool. Pleasant night. 

30 Barometer at 10 a.m., 28.400; at 4 p,m,, 28,331. Temperature of air at 
10 a.m., 74" 71°; at 4 p.m., 75" 73". Direction of wind at sunrise, S.W.; 
at 10 a.m., S.W, — Rem. Moderate rain in morning. Very heavy at 12. 
Fearful burst at 3 p.m. 

31 Barometer at 10 a.m., 28.468 ; at 4 p.m., 28,340. Temperature of air at 
10 a.m., 74" 72° ; at 4 p.m., 76"/74". Direction of wind at sunrise, S.W. ; 
at 10 a.m., S.W.— Rem. Bad rain all night, 

August 28. Halt. Fine morn. At 10 a,m., cloud on hills. Spittiug of 
rain. At noon, cloudy. At 4 p.m., hot sun. Cool night after 10 or 11 
p.m., before hot. 

29 March. (Rumuma.) Fine morn. Dew clouds in E., on hills obscuring 
sun. On liill-top, Sarsar wind. Then clear sky and fiery sun. Wind, S. 
At night in tent therm. 56". 

30 Halt. Morn, clear and little dew. Day sunny and cloudy; climate of 
Italy. Therm, at 2 p.m. in tent, 95" (40" variation in day)." Nights cool 
and pleasant, 

31 Halt. Cool morn. Clear day. Fiery sunset. Morn, hazy. Cool and 
pleasant night. 

ALT. OBSERVATIONS ON GOMA HILLS. 

Rufuta River (5.45 p.m.) 28.932. Alt. 77°, Det. 75". Then cloudy evruing. 
Half up Pass (6,15 a.m.) 28.7CO. Alt. 77", Det. 72". Mistv mom. Frg. 
On Goma (8.30 a.m.) 27.994. Alt, 78", Det. 75". Clearer, sun aud clouds. 
On summit (9.30 a.m.) 27.400. Alt. 82", Det. 84". Clear and line. 
Mfuruny (5.15 p.m.) 27.35 S. Alt. SO", Det. 74". Fine clear evening. 



OBSEUYATIONS MADE AT INENGE AND UGOGI DURING THE 
MONTH OE SEPTEMBER, 1857. 



DAY 

1 Heavy rain in morn at dawn. Then dear and cloudy. At 10 a.m. sky 
all clouded. Long shower of small drops. (Halt, liumuma.) In night 
spitting of rain. Close night. Wind E. 

2 March. (Marenga.) Drizzle for 1 hour. Nimbi in morn from E. Then 
cold wind and clouds. At Marenga furious E. wiud. Cumuli high. Sun 
moderate. At sunset, wind sank. Came up with moon, furious at night. 
Sky clear, but table-cloths on hills. 

3 March. (Jungle.) Clear morn. Wind fell with dawn. Gusts at 7 a.m. 
Very hot sun. Asses rushing under the shade, Eine, clear, cold night ; 
all wet with dew. A few clouds (mists) and gusts. 

4 March. (Tncnge.) Eine cool morn. Very hot, and few clouds till 0. Then 
})leasant breeze. Clouds at 10, but not sun. Clear and burning at 1. 
Night at first warm, then cold. 

5 Halt. Barometer at 10 a.m., 2G.432 ; at 4 p.m., 2C.412. Temperature of 
air at 10 a.m., 77'*/70°; at 4 p.m., 77" 175". Cool morn. Clouds from hills 
till about 4 p.m. Sun then burning. Misty, dewy night. Wind E. antl 
dusty. 

6 Halt. Barometer at 10 a.m., 20.088 ; at 4 p.m., 20.010. Temperature of 
air at 10 a.m., 87°/73''; at 4 p.m., 7y"/7G°. Hot morn, sun. Wind from N. 
and E. Very hot at 4 p.m. Exceedingly cold and clear night. Wind at 
sunset raw and dangerous. 

7 Halt. Barometer at 10 a.m., 20.458 ; at 4 p.m., 20.450. Temperature of 
air at 10 a.m., 75"/75°; at 4 p.m., 75"/ 73". Hot morn. Wind very variable. 
Eecls killingly cold. Yet therm, high. At 4 begins to be feverish. 

8 Halt. Barometer at 10 a.m., 20.480 ; at 4 p.m., 20.400. Temperature of 
air at 10 a.m., 82° 78" ; at 4 p.m., 70778°. Eine cool morn. Terrible sun 
afterward from 10 to 2. Wind very variable. Eine night. 

9 Halt. Barometer at 10 a.m., 20.418 ; at 4 p.m., 20.392. Temperature of 
air at 10 a.m., SO"/78''; at 4 p.m., 797>'^"- Cool day. Cloudy and windy. 
Eine niglit as usual, very dan)p. Wind E. and M. — 5 to 9. Pitched m 
liollow at foot of Pass. 

10 March. Cold morn. Then great heat. Ascending Inengc mount. Eiuc 
cool wind. Cold night. Sun very hot at 4 p.m. Wind E. and N. 

11 Halt. Rubeho. Cold heavy fog in morn. Barometer at 10 a.m., 25.100 ; 
at 4 p.m., 25.070. Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 78779°; at 4 p.m., 
70773°. Hot sun. At 10, fleecy, cloudy. Eicrce heat at 12. Cool night, 
foggy, and no wind. 

12 March 2nd. Rubeho. Heavy fog. Cleared at 9. At night, 04° in tent. 
Barometer at 4 p.m., 24.408. Temperature of air at 4 p.m., 73"/'75°. 
Very high wind at 10 ; lasted all day; fell with the sun ; rose again, and 
lasted all nigiit. Rarefied and very cold. 

13 Halt. Rubeho. Eoggv morn. Barometer at 10 a.m., 24.402 ; at 4 p.m., 
24.438. Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 71°/71° ; at 4 p.m., 70770°. Like 
rain. Cold day, but sun hot. Eog heavy. E. wind. Sun fierce. Wind 
and cold. Little dew in all these places. All fog. Dates, 12, 13 (Sept.) 
above Pass. 

14 March. • Exceedingly foggy morn. Sun bright and hot about noon. 
Barometer about 4 p.m., 24.014. Temperature of air at 4 p.m., 70"/72°. 



APPENDIX a 



439 



Therm, in tent at dawn, 50°. High E. wind. At night, raw, windy, and 

foggy- 

15 March. Jungle. Tog in morn. Bright hot sun. Yew clouds after 1 
p.m. High E. wind. Terrible night. Pitched on hiil-side, with a draft 
to the hot plains below. Dates, 14, 15 (Sept.). Descent. 

16 Halt. Little Rubeho. Fog, mist (almost rain), and wild wind in morn. 
High E. wind all day. Sun exceedingly hot. Too occupied to observe. 

17 March. (Jungle.) Eog, mist, and wind from E. Very hot in day. Sun 
furious, and sky cloudless. Fine clear night. No dew whatever. 

18 March. (Ugogi.) Cool morn. Hot sun. No clouds. Pitched in gul- 
ly, where wind comes from every quarter. Mild night. 

19 Halt. Day exactly as yesterday. Barometer at 10 a.m., 27.364; at 4 
p.m., 27.310. Temperature at 10 a.m., S4°;S2° ; at 4 p.m., 83^85°. Sun 
sets in these hills at 4.45 p.m. "Warm night. 

20 Halt. Clear morn. Barometer at 10 a.m., 27.270; at 4 p.m., 27.248. 
Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 82*^/79°; at 4 p.m., 85° '82°. Clouds. 
Cloudy in afternoon. Pine, clear, warm night. Great sameness of climate. 

21 Halt, Cloudy morn. Barometer at 10 a.m., 27.236 ; at 4 p.m., 27.290. 
Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 7fi°/74°; at 4 p.m., 78°/77°. Little wind. 
Drops of heat-rain at noon. Cloudy night. \Varm in tent. 

22 Tirikeza. Clear day in morn. Barometer at 10 a.m., 27.240. Temper- 
ature at 10 a.m., 70°/7S°. Clouds at 10 till sunset. Then all clear except 
mist-bank in W. Pine cool night. Cooler than under hills. Wind E. 

23 March. (Marenga M'Khali.) Clear morn. "Wind E. at 9 and 10. Clouds 
thin before noon ; then pleasant. Cool night. In tent at dawn. Tlierm., 51°. 

24 Tirikeza. Perfectly clear dawn. "Wind E. A few clouds at 1, which 
increased till sunset. Cool wind (E.) at 4 p.m. Pine dewless night. 

25 Tirikeza. Clear dawn. Day cloudy. "V\^ind E. In intervals hot sun. 
Fine sunset. Cold night. "VYind blowing, and dew considerable. 

26 March. (Ziwa.) Clear dawn. Barometer at 10 a.m.. 26.915 ; at 4 p.m., 
26.900. Temperature of air at 10 a.m., 85°/84° ; at 4 p.m., 86°;87°. Cold 
morn. Fearful heat in tent (93°) about 2 to 4. Cold blowy night. Dew 
heavy. 

27 Halt. Clear dawn. Thinnest veil on horizon. Temperature of air at 10 
a.m., 87° ; at 4 p.m., 90°. Fearfully hot day. No shadow of cloud. High 
wind. Tent blown down. Cold evening ; then hot ; then cold towards 
morn. Wind E. Dew. 

28 Halt. Clear dawn. Then sunrise, 54°. At 3 p.m., 95°. No mist on 
cloud. Gusts from E. and N.E. Warm night. Cool towards dawn. 

29 Halt. Clear dawn. Very hot. Cloudless. Wind E., and about 4 p.m. 
veered round to N.E. "VVarm night. Windy night as usual. Cold dawn. 
Heavy dew. 

30 Ditto in all points. 

PlE3Iarks. — Prom Bumuma to Ugogo Plains. Air rarified. Extremes of 
heat and cold. Clouds on hills and occasional showers. Very hot sun. 
Breeze at 9 or 10. Gusts at night. Furious E. wind. Sometimes no dew; 
sometimes dew like rain. Draft in descent to heated plains. 

Ugogi, a new climate. Somaliland near Harar, or Upper Sind. Hot 
and dry, dewless : wind and dust. Sky intensely blue ; stars like young moons. 
Very healthy. Ugogo similar. Great heat and cold. Dew somewhat copious. 
No clouds. Furious E. wind from the hills. 



OBSERVATIONS MADE AT UGOGO, ETC., DUKIKG THE MONTH 
OF OCTOBER, 1857. 



Therm, tied to hind pole of teut, opposite entrance, 2 feet from ground. 



DAY 

1 Thermometer at sunrise, ; at noon, 91° ; at 4 p.m., 91° ; at sunset, 81*. 
Direction of wind at sunrise, E. Eine dawn. Fiery sun, cloudless. 
Heat gradually increased. Banks of thin clouds about lY. Furious wind 
at night. Cool dawn. 

2 Thermometer at sunrise, 02" ; at noon, 91° ; at 4 p.m., 91° ; at sunset, 81°. 
Direction of wind at sunrise, E. Fine dawn. Fiery sun, cloudless, lleat 
gradually increased. Clouds thicken. IVind veers from S.W. to N.W. 
Blew hard at night. 

3 lliermometer at sunrise, 03° ; at noon, 90'\ Direction of wind at sunrise, 
E. and N.E. Windy morn. 

4 Thermometer at sunrise, 00°; at noon, 70° ; at 4 p.m., 91° ; at sunset, 82°. 
Direction of wind at sunrise, E. and S.E. "Windy morn. Fiery sun, 
cloudless. Heat gradually increased. Clouds. Wind violent, and from 
every direction ; fell at midnight. 

5 Thermometer at sunrise. 70°. Direction of the wind at sunrise, E. and S.E. 
Windy morn. Heat milder. Clouds. Clouds gathering. Wind furious 
till 10 p.m. Close night. 

Thermometer at sunrise, 70°. Direction of wind, E. and S.E. Sky all 
covered. Shower about 8 a.m. Heat less. Clouds. , 

7 Fine morn. Wind from all round. Great lieat. Thermometer at 4 p.m., 
9r. At night, wind till 10; then fell ; then rose with moon. Tent blown 
down at 3 ]).m. 

8 Fine clear dawn. No wind. Great heat. Whirlwind bad at night till 
about 12 a.m. 

9 Thermometer at sunrise, OS". Clear dawn. No wind. Great heat. 

10 March. Fine clear dawn. Hot morn. A few clouds. Breeze as usual 
at 10. Very hot afternoon. 

11 March. Cool dewy morn. Dark day. No rain. Clear as usual about 
the afternoon. Cold wind. Feverish. Warm night. 

12 Hot night. Cloudy day. Very close in the afternoon, with gusts of cold 
wind. 

13 Thermometer 54° in tent at sunrise. Cold morn. Hot wind at 10. A 
few lieat clouds. I'leasant and cool after midnight. 

14 Cold morn. Intensely hot day. 97" at noon. No clouds. A little wind 
from S.E. Fine clear evening. Cold gusts. S.E. wind at night. 

15 Thermometer 01" in tent at sunrise. High wind outside; fell at dawn ; very 
cold; rose, as always docs, between 8 and 9 a.m. ; fell at sunset (wind S.E.) ; 
tine night. — 0-15. Winds high; rise from 8 to 10 a.m.; blow all day till 
sunset, very uncertain, generally E. and S.E., also N. and W. A .simoom 
on plains. Cold high winds at night, yet healthy. All our sick recovered. 

10 Thermometer at sunrise, 51" in tent, 49" outside; at noon, 101" 90°; at 4 
p.m., 93" /J3"; at sunset, 80" 81°. Fine dawn. Wind moderate. Fuil's 
of wind, S.E. Fine night.— L'gogo. Therm, always the sanje, observed 
once. 



APPENDIX C. 



441 



17 March. Cold dawn. Tine morn. Fiery day. Tew wind and heat clouds, 
high up, which increased from W. (against wind) about 3 to 4 p.m. Fine 
sunset and warm night. Breeze at 10 a.m. 

18 Halt. Dawn, fair and cool. Thermometer at noon, S9° '93° ; at 4 p.m., 
89° 90°. Hot day. No clouds. Pine clear even. At night, coldish wind 
from S.E. 

19 Thermometer at sunrise, 52° 53°. Cold dawn. Hot cloudless day. Fiery 
wind in gusts. Fine clear sunset, 82" out of tent, Sl° in it. Wind E. 
and S.E. as usual. 

20 March. Cold dawn. Hot day. No clouds. Fine cirri, liigh up. Fine 
clear sunset. At night, raw E. wind. 

21 March. Cold dawn. Clouds at 9 a.m. Cleared away in evening. TTiud- 
less night. — Gunda M. 

22 Jiwe la Mkoa. Clouds at 9 a.m. E. wind all night. 

23 March. Kirururao. Hot morning. Cloudy about 10. Yet burning sun. 
Fine afternoon. In evening heavy nimbus from \Y. E. wind. Spitting 
rain all night. Yery cool and pleasant. Thunder and sheet lightning. 

24 Clouds and cold. 70° at 7 a.m. About 1, sun struggled through. Mgongo. 
Thunder at 3 to 4 p.m. Heavy thunder, llain from 7 to 9 p.m. E. 
v.'ind, but clouds from W. Clouded again. Air full of damp cold wind 
at sunset. 

25 Cloudy raw morn. Sun half out at 10 a.m. Raw day. Clear fine night. 
Yery cold. AYind E., but not high. 

20 High cirri in morn. Cold and high wind. Day hot. Fine warm night. 

27 Burning day. Cumulus in even. Wind E. 

28 Cool morn. High E. wind at 8. Plenty of clouds. Pleasant day. High 
wind ; rose again after sunset till midnight. At sunset in slied, 81°. 

29 Thermometer at sunrise, C5° in shed. Cool morn, 84° in shed, 94° in sun. 
High E. wind at 8 a.m. Hot day. In morn heavy clouds from W., but 
liigh. Night at first warm and cloudy, then cool and clear. Trees bent 
by wind. Never saw this before. 

30 Clear dawn. Fiery day. Simoom gusts at 11. Cool in house, 81° and 
82'. Heavy clouds from N. No M'ind, but direction S.E. Warm fine 
night. High cumuli. Cool fine midnight to dawn. 

31 Cloudy dawn. Cool pleasant day. Beautiful evening and warmish night. 



OBSERYATIOXS MADE AT UNYANYEMBE, ETC, DURING THE 
MONTH OE NOVEMBER, 1857. 



CAY 

1 Cloudless dawn, windless. Wind and clouds from E. Cumuli in after- 
noon. Tolerably clear sunset. Eine moonlight night. Warm and 
pleasant. 

2 R^ubuga. Cloudless dawn, windless. Wind and clouds from E. Cumuli 
after noon. At moonrise cloud and mists, 7 p-ui. from S. Then cool E. 
wind with moon. 

3 Cloudless dawn, windless. Very hot day. Cumuli and wind bound up. 
Cloudy night, cool and comfortable. 

4 Ukona. Cloudless morn till 7 ; then cleared away. Sun hot, and cold 
wind. Cumuli in day, high up. Eine cool even at dawn. Eew clouds, 
cirri. Wind E. and !S. 

5 Cloudless morn. High E. and. S. wind at 7 a.m. ; then fell. Cool night 
and clear. 

. G Unyanyembe. Cloudless morn. ]\Ioderate E. wind at 7 and 8. Cloudy 
day. Cumuli nearly over sky. Wind N.E. and E. during forenoon; 
veered S. and even \V. with sun, and returns E. at night. 

7 Too sick to observe. 

8 Ditto. 

9 Verandah, facing E. Thermometer at sunrise, 72" ; at noon, 91" ; at sunset, 
87". Cool cloudless dawn. Cloudy, but very close. Profuse perspira- 
tion. Pleasant cloudless even. High S.E. wind at night. 

10 Verandali, facing E. Tiiermometer at sunrise, 70° ; at sunset, 132", Cool 
cloudless dawn. Almost cloudless. In sun at 3 p.m. Pleasant even. 
Eilmy night. Little wind. 

11 Verandah, facing E. Thermometer at sunrise, 71" ; at noon, 120° in sun; at 
sunset, 81°. Cool cloudless dawn. Exceedingly hot and close. Pleasant 
even, but clouds gathering. 

12 Thermometer at sunrise, 71°. Cloudy, as if for rain. Warm day. Fine 
even, but clouds high up, showing wind. Rain expected. 

13 Eine dawn. Clouds during day. Exceedingly hot. Rain wanted and 
expected. Moon and stars halved. 

14 Tiiermometer at sunrise, 79° in tent ; at noon, 83° in tent ; at sunset, 85° in 
tent, line dawn. Eiery day. bigns of rain. Lightning from Azyab, 
N.E., disappears. 

15 Thermometer at sunrise, 78° ; at noon, 92° ; 89° in even. Verandah, faeitig 
E. Very hot cloudy day. Rain at 3 p.m. ; and at night ; very little fell. 

IC Thermometer at sunrise, 72° ; at noon, 92° ; at sunset, 91°. Verandah, facing 
E. Clear dawn. Very liot. People expect rain with this heat. Very 
clear night. Wind E. 

17 Fine dawn. Therniometer at 10 a.m. 90° in verandah (E.) ; at 4 p.m., 91". 
Climate too uniform for Europeans. Cloudy day. Rained for about 1 
hour at night. 

18 Cloudy day. Exceedingly hot. Thunder all afternoon till night. No 
Hilal seen yet. Cool, clear, and pleasant night, 

19 Bright dawn, (Sick.) 

20 Bright dawn. Clouds during day, Raiu iu afternoon, and high wind. 



APPENDIX C. 



443 



21 Clear dawn. 

22 Thunder and rain at 3 p.m. 

23 Thunder all afternoon. Kain at 3*p.m. 

24 Rain at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. Wind from W., cold, raw, and damp. The 
storms from Azjab, N.E. Cloudy all day. Rain, thunder, and lightning 
all night. 

25 Cloudy dawn and forenoon. Storm at night, 7 to 9. 

26 Cloudy. Thunder and storm at 4 p.m. Violent rain and storm, distant 
about 3 miles, at night. Iso wind. 

27 Cloudy day and dawn. All looks like rain. Grumbling of low thunder 
all day. 

28 Very cloudy dawn. Cleared at 8. 

29 Violent rain at night. Surly weather. Signs of rain, flying ants. 

30 Thermometer at sunrise, 80° in verandah. Clear cool day, a few clouds. 
Rain in evening. 

31 Too sick to observe. 

Remarks. — Air of Unyanyembe intensely dry ; sometimes does not rain for 
months. Soil fertile by proximity of water; rains every 15 or 16 days. 
Lightning from S.E. We had very steady rain. Thunder and lightning like 
chota barsat in Upper India. About the 30th inst. country well sopped. 
All began to plant ; rice about end of month, and Jawari after. 

Rain, as at Zanzibar, every day. Generally deep cloudy morns. Cold 
wind, and very damp. Therm. 70°. Sun at 10 a.m., hot. Clouds partially 
dispersed. About 2 p.m. showers, with thunder and lightning, increase till 
dark, when become very violent. Bolts fell one night. Climate unwholesome 
as the Kinga-ni river. Almost all our men had fever. Wind generally E., 
but changing to S.W. 

This rain in Dec. is called Muaka, or the year. We experienced it on the 
coast, in the Elpliinstone, and the Riami. All are cultivating. 



OBSERVATIONS MADE AT UNTAMWEZI LAND, KA- 
ZEH, AND ZIMBILI, DURING THE MONTH OF DE- 
CEMBER, 1857. 



1 to 15 Unyauyerabe and Kapimde. Too sick to observe. Climate 

precisely the same. 
10 Thennometer at sunrise, 70° in tent. Rain at 2 p.m. Thunder 

and lightning. Night cool and cloudy. Day cold. AVant very 

warm clothing. AVind raw. 
17 Thermometer at sunrise, 70". Cloudy morn. 



OBSEEYATIOXS MADE AT TJIJI, OX THE LAKE TAX- 
GAXIKA, DUEIXG THE MOXTH OE APEIL, 1S5S. ' 



DAY 

1 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 71°; at 12, 75°; at G p.m., 76°. Means 
of ' Cox ' and pocket therm. 

2 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 7P; at 12, 73°; at 6 p.m., 78^ 

3 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 68°; at 12, 7G°; at G p.m., 75^ Cool 
day. Heavy clouds. Xo rain. 

4 Thermometer at 6 a.m., GO'; at 12, 79"; at G p.m., 77'\ Eine 
clear day. Xo rain. 

5 Thermometer at G a.m., GO"; at 12. 78°; at G p.m., 77°. Eine 
day, showing that monsoon is drawiniij to close. 

G Thermometer at G a.m., G0°; at 12,S0 ; at G p.m., 7G". Eine day. 

7 Thermometer at G a.m., 70" ; at 12, 80° ; at G p.m., 7G°. Eine day. 

8 Thermometer at G a.ir.., G8 ; at 12, 78° ; at G p.m., 7G°. AW^ather 
exceedingly damp. Xo rain. 

9 Thermometer at G a.m., 70° ; at 12, 7G° ; at G p.m., 7G°. Started 
for Uvira. Twice rain in night. 

10 Thunder, lightning, and rain, all day. A'ery damp and cold on 
Lake. 

11 Violent r.iiris mi l 7^. uind all night; tent blown down. Eaw 
cold. 

12 Heavy raui m iimiuav and hut sun. Damp excessive. 

13 On Lake. 
11. Ditto. 

15 Sun very hot. ^lorn and even clouded with nimbus. 
IG Cold, not of low temperature, but humid atmosphere. Eiery 
sun and rain during day. 

17 Alternate bursts of burning t<un and cold. Eain all day. 

18 Purple clouds from X., sign of heavy rain, showers occasional. 
10 On sea, smooth at first. Eine sky. About a.m. wind sprang 

up. Hot sun. Heavy dew. 

20 Eine, hot, rainless day. 

21 Eine, hot, rainless day. Even perfectly clear. 

22 Cold, raw, and uncomfortable. 

23 Eine day and night. S.E. wind at 7 p.m. Heavy nimbi after 
midnight. Kain at sunrise. 

21; Eine day. 

25 Eine day. S.E. wind, raw at night. 

20 Clear day. W. wind, high. AVaves foaming. Heavy dew. Xo 
clouds. 



APPENDIX C. 



447 



27 Clear and windy. Driven off sands by sea rising. 

28 Fine day. Occasionally cloudy. Ko rain. 

29 Fine day. Occasionally cloudy. Xo rain. 

30 Fine day. Occasionally cloudy. ]S'o rain. 

31 Violent rains in night and all morning. 

Eemakks. — Eains at Kazeh, began on 14tb November. 

At Ujiji about 2 months earlier. At Msene 1 month earlier. 

^sot heavy at first; no burst of monsoon, as in India, but in- 
variably accompanied by violent thunder and lightning. 

The sun of the rains is considered very sickly ; it burns with a 
violent and nauseating heat, truly uncomfortable. 

The wind during this month, jST. after midnight till sunrise, when 
it becomes raw and cold. During the day warmer, and veered round 
to S.E. This was constant point. In evenings, and often at nights, 
it became a complete blast. 

Direction of rain in Ujiji, generally either from IS"., from S.E., and 
from S.W. But it was, as everywhere, very variable. The S.E. 
and E. wind seems to prevail everywhere, from Ugogo to the Lake. 



OESEEYATIO]S'S MADE AT TJNTAiS'TEMBE, Lat. S. 5^^ 4' 12", 
Alt. 3436 aeote S. L., DUEING THE MONTH OF JUNE, 
1858. 

' Cox' hung in verandah. See Sept. (same place). 



DAT 



1 Eusi^i Eiver. Cold and very dewy morn. Hot sun. Few 
cumuli and cirri. 

2 Hot day. Clouds at noon. Fine, clear, and cold night. 

3 Cold mom. Hot sunny day. 

4 Slight shock of earthquake at 11.15 a.m. Fine hot da}'. 

5 Fine, hot, and breezy morn. AVind, as usual, E. 

6 Fine, hot, and breezy morn. 

7 ^rii'j)2:y and cloudy night. Hot sun till clouded at noon. Air 
still. Splendid niglit. 

8 Cool morn. Usual raw wind. Splendid night. 

Cool morn. Eaw hi;;h wind at noon. Fleecy clouds. 

10 Splendid night. Coul morn. Kaw high wind at noon. Fleecy 
clouds. 

11 Cold wind and burning sun all day. 

12 Cold wind and burning sun all day. 

13 Slight shocks of eartlupiakes at repeated intervals. 

14 ^listy morn. Hot clear <lay. Cloudy even. 

15 ^listy morn. Hot clear day. Cloudy even. 

16 Cold morn. Stinging sun. 

17 Cold njorn. Stinging sun. 

IS Cold morn. Stinging sun. Eaw wind at 10 a.m. Light breezes 
during day. 

19 Kazeh. Cold morning. Stinging sun. 

20 Thermometer at G a.m., G7" ; at 12, 83"; at G p.m., 80. Xotliin'; 
remarkable, but cold E. wind. 

21 Thermometer at G a.m., GO"; at 12, 83"; at G p.m., 7S r >.::nc 
remark. 

22 Thermometer at G a.m., G3"; at 12, S3°; at G p.m., 78"*. 

23 Thermometer at G a.m., Gt" ; at 12, 80" ; at G p.m., 78". AVeather 
the same. Air exceedingly dry. At dawn a cold W. breeze 
that chills the blood. About 10 a.m. changes E. 

24 Thermometer at G a.m., GO"; at 12, SG" ; at G p.m., 80'. Eaw 
and violent E. wind, which causes abundant sickness. Hay clear 
till 1 Y.m., then cloudy. 



APPENDIX a 



449 



25 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 67°; at 12, 87°; at 6 p.m., 82°. Clouds 
from E. ; sometimes clear away at sunset ; sometimes last all 
night. Invariable cloud-bank of purple nimbus in W. • 

26, 27 On both these days tourbillons, or devils, of light dust, filling 
houses. 

28 — 31 Too sick to observe. 

Eemaeks. — Early summer. The earth is dried up with want of 
moisture ; and in IJnyanyembe the dews, except during the rains, 
are light. 

The weather is monotonous. The morn cold, raw, and bright. 
The sun begins to tell at about 9 a.m., and at 10 a.m. rises a high 
wind from the N. and E., cooled by evaporation, and pouring from 
the hill-lines that flank the plains. It is considered very unwhole- 
some. Fleecy clouds appear at noon, increase in volume and depth, 
and disappear about sunset, which is bright and clear, except when 
a thick cloud-bank occupies in straight line the western horizon. 
Kii^hts often cool, and sometimes still and ' muggy.' 

The Kaus, or S.AV. monsoon, is supposed to blow from April to 
the end of Kovember, when it is succeeded for 4 months by the 
Kazkazi, or N.E. monsoon. Such are the seasons at Zanzibar. In 
Unyamwezi, however, the E. wind seems to last all the year. 



VOL. II. 



29 



OBSEEYATIOXS MADE AT UNTANYEMBE, MASTJI, AND 
XGEMO, Lat. S., 5° 5' 12", Alt. 3436 ft. above S. L., 
DUEIXa THE MOXTH OF SEPT., 1S58. 

' Cox' hung in a passap^e, and after the Sth in an open verandah 
pointing E., and exposed to reflection of sun. 

' Newman ' hung in empty tent from ridge-pole, one fold defended 
from air; averafje of 8 days, observed at 6 a.m., 65°; at 9 a.m., 85° ; 
at 12. 108°; at 3 p.m., 107°; at 6 p.m., SO ; extreme, 50°; from 63° 
to 113° (highest at noon). 



DAY 

1 Kazeh. 

2 Thermometer at 9 a.m., '76°; at 12, 85°; at 3 p.m., 85°; at 6 p.m., 
83°. 

3 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 73°; at 9 a.m., 76°; at 12, 85°; at 3 
p.m., 88?; at 6 p.m., 83°. 

4 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 73°; at 9 a.m., 76 ; at 12, 83°; at 3 
p.m., 87° ; at 6 p.m., 83°. AVind cold. Several ])crsoiis taken ill. 

5 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 73° ; at 9 a.m., 75° ; at 12, 83° ; at 3 p.m., 
87' ; at 6 p.m., 85 . 

6 Thennometer at 6 a.m., 71°; at 9 a.m., 75°; at 12, 84°: at 3 
p.m., 85' ; at 6 p.m., 84'. Dark, warm, and cloudy. CoUl blasta 
at times. ll;iin in distance. 

7 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 75\ at 9 a.m., 76°; at 12, 83"; at 3 
p.m., 85°; at 6 p.m., 84°. 

8 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 71 ; at 9 a.m., 75° ; at 12, 83° ; at 3 p.m., 
85°. Purple cloudr* fi'om E., with thunder and lightning. A lew 
dropa on lirat shower, auji^urs an early monsoon. 

9 Thermometer at G a.m., 75° ; at 12, 86° ; at 6 p.m., 83°. Ch)uds, 
but no rain. Night clear. 

10 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72°; at 12, 88° ; at 6 p.m., 83 '. 

11 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 69°; at 12, 88°; at 6 p.m., 84°. Nights 
generally clouded before 12. 

12 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 68°; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 84°. l?aiii. 

13 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72"; nt 12, 90^; at 6 p.m., 85°. 

14 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 75°; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 79°. 

15 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72° ; at 12, 92°. Cloudy niglit ; could not 
observe. 

16 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 74° ; at 12, 89° ; at p.m., 85°. 

17 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72°; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 85°. Hot 
cloudy day. Cold blasts. Kain sonicwhere. 

18 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 75° ; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 79°. Cloudy, 



APPENDIX C. 



451 



19 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72° ; at 12, 92° ; at 6 p.m., 85°. Purple 
clouds. Thunder, and a few drops of rain at 10 p.m. 

20 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 74°; at 12, 92°; at 6 p.m., 86°. At 9 
p.m., thunder, and a few drops of rain. Clouds from W., wind 
from E. 

21 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 73°; at 12, 89°; at 6 p.m., 85° Clear 
hot day and night. 

22 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 73° ; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 85°. Kormal 
day. Eemarks. Very bright moon. 

23 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 74° ; at 12, 92° ; at 6 p.m., 88°. Wind 
always E. 

24 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 75°; at 12, 90°; at 6 p.m., 86°. Sun 
fiery. 

25 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 70°; at 12, 88°; at 6 p.m., 84°. 

26 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 71°. (Last at Unyanyembe.) Marched 
this day.— 26 to 28 at Masui. 

27 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 70°; at 12, 82°; at 6 p.m., 71. Therm, 
hung in hut to pole alt. Violent cold wind all evening. 

28 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 70°; at 12, 80°; at 6 p.m., 82°. 5 ft. 
fronting S. Iso refracted heat. At Ngemo. 

29 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72°; at 12, 80° ; at 6 p.m., 82°. In hut, 
on wall, fronting S.E. alt. 

30 Thermometer at 6 a.m., 72 ; at 12, 80°; at 6 p.m., 83°. 5 ft., no 
refraction. — 29, 30, at Ngemo. 

Eemaeks. — Midsummer. Despite the drought, beasts and birds 
be.^in to couple, and trees to put fortli leaves. 

The E. wind becomes milder, the weather better, especially at 
night, and the whirlwinds diminish. The change of seasons, whicli 
brought so much sickness, passed away in the latter third of July. 
In Sept., Unyarawezi is tolerably healthy. 

The normal day, at this season, is a cold high E. wind, rising 
sliortly after the"^sun bas heated the ground, it pours from the 
far Usagara Mountains. The sky is clear and sparkling, with a few 
bigh cirri, and on the horizon white cumuli. Shortly after noon 
clouds obscure the sun and confine the wind, which, however, some- 
times blow throughout the evening and the night. The nights are 
cool about 11 p.m., till which hour the air is still, warm, and genial. 
It much resembles the end of an Italian summer day. The winds, 
however, with their prodigious loads of dust, if a little less pufiy, 
and more continuous, would rival the gales of Sind. 



OBSEEYATIONS MADE AT MGUNDA, MKHALI, AJ^D 
IJGOGO, DUEING THE MONTH OE NOVEMBEE, 1858. 



DAY 

5 Tura. Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at midday, 91 ; at 
sunset, 94. N. D. At night, lightning in E. A violent wind- 

^ storm at 9 to 10 p.m. 

6 Temperature of air at sunrise, 61 ; at midday, 82 ; at sunset, 84. 
Cloudy morn. 

7 Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at midday, 83 ; at sunset, 78. 
Furious E. wind at 10 a.m. Sun fiery. 

8 Kirurumo in Desert. Temperature of air at sunrise, 64 ; at mid- 
day, 82 ; at sunset, 80. Furious E. wind at 10 a.m. 

9 Temperature of air at sunrise, 62 ; at midday, 100 ; at sunset, 
83. Furious E. wind at 10 a.m. 

10 Temperature of air at sunrise, 63 ; at midday, 100 ; at sunset, 
76. E. wind early, 9 a.m. 

11 Temperature of air at sunrise, 59 ; at midday, 100 ; at sunset, 78. 
E. wind at 8 a.m. 

12 Temperature of air at sunrise, 58 ; at midday, 99 ; at sunset, 79. 
AVarm night. Tourbillou at 9 p.m. 

13 Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at midday, 90 ; at sunset, 86. 
Hot day. Eain appears gathering. 

14 W. Frontier of Ugogo. Temperature of air at sunrise, 64 ; 
at midday, 100; at sunset, 81. Hot and clear. 

15 Temperature of air at sunrise, 65 ; at midday, 89 ; at sunset, 82. 
"Wind N.E., high aud cool. People sowing in readiness for first 
rains. 

16 Khoko. Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at midday, 92 ; 
at sunset, 84. Showers from E. at 5 p.m., large lieavy drops 
and si)itting. Night windy. 

17 Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at midday, 90 ; at sunset, 72. 
Clouds from noon to 5 p.m. Cool windy night. 

18 Temperature of air at sunrise, 63 ; at midday, 96 ; at sunset, 80. 

19 Usekhe. Temperature of air at sunrise, 64 ; at midday, 87 ; at 
sunset, 84. 

20 Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at midday, 84 ; at sunset, 86. 

21 Temperature of air at sunrise, 67 ; at midday, 84 ; at sunset, 84. 

22 Kanyenye. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70; at midday, 96; 
at sunset, 82. A^iolent tourbillon and dust after sunset. 

23 Temperature of air at sunrise, 68 ; at midday, 97 ; at sunset, 83. 
High wind in morn. 

24 Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at midday, 94 ; at sunset, 84. 
High wind all night. 

25 Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at midday, 02 ; at sunset, 88. 



APPENDIX a 



453 



26 Temperature of air at sunrise, 68 ; at midday, 96 ; at sunset, 8i. 
Calm day, windy night. 

27 Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at midday, 100 ; at sunset, 
83. Calm hot morn and afternoon ; cold and windy even. 

28 Temperature of air at sunrise, 63 ; at midday, 100 ; at sunset, 85. 
Spitting of rain during the night. 

29 Temperature of air at sunrise, 73 ; at midday, 96 ; at sunset, 80. 
Spitting of rain in morn. Cloudy day. Hot afternoon. High 
gusts at night. 

30 Kifukuro. Temperature of air at sunrise, 68 ; at midday, 100 ; 
at sunset, 83. Cool cloudy day. Heavy nimbi from E. at night. 
Eain predicted. — 14 to 30 Ugogo. 

Eemarks. — Therm, hung to fore-pole of ridge tent, mercury 
height of man's eye. Tent always facing N. 
Morning fine, cool, clear, and still. 

Clouds, chiefly cumulus. E. wind sets in between 10 to 11, with 
clouds. Noon, fleecy clouds, cirri, and cumuli, sun obscured, cool 
air, and high cold E. wind. Sun fiery between clouds, wliich, when 
thick, arrest wind. Evening clear, cool, and pleasant. AVind some- 
times veers to W. Hottest part of day, because wind arrested 
between noon and 3 p.m. often a veil of mist-cloud. Night still and 
cloudy, with raflales of cold high E. wind. Nimbus and cumulus. 
Air often mild and genial. Night, wind sometimes mild, and W. 
but rarely. Often a film of mist, and the moon and stars in haloes. 

In Ugogo the E. wind is sensibly warmer than Umyanvvezi, and 
presents less contrast with the surrounding atmosphere. Tour- 
billons are frequent and violent. The average heat at 9 a.m. was 
97° ; at 3 p.m., 100°. 



OBSERVATIONS MADE AT MAHENGA MK'HALI, UHEHE, WEST- 
ERN USAGARA, AND UZIRAHA IN KHUTU, DURING THE 
MONTH OE DECEMBER, 1858, 



DAY 



i Ziwa. Temperature of air at sunrise, 68 ; at 4 p.m., 100 ; at sunset, 80. 
Cool, cloudy morn. Hot, close, glaring day. Cool evening. 
[ 2 Marenga Mk'hali. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 101 ; at 
sunset, 82. Air cooled by distant rain. Eiery bursts of sun. Heavy 
clouds at night. Lightning from N. and E. 

3 Marenga Mk'hali. Temperature of air at sunrise, 69 ; at 4 p.m., 101 ; at 
sunset, 80. Cloudy morn till 8. Clouds at noon. Heavy shower with 
thunder and lightning frorn E. at 1 p.m. 

4 Marenga Mk'hali. Temperature of air at "sunrise, 70; at 4 p.m., 101; at 
sunset, 82. Clouds at 10 a.m. Clear day. Hot sun. Cool night. 

5 Marenga Mk'hali. Temperature of air at sunrise, 68; at 4 p.m., 97; at 
sunset, 84. Cloudy morn. Gusty day. Cold night. Draughts of air 
from Dungomaro ravine in Ugogi all night from midnight. 

6 Ugogi. Temperature of air at sunrise, 66 ; at 4 p.m., 90 ; at sunset, 80. 
Warm morn and even. Cool wind at 9 p.m. Heavy showers and gusts at 
night. Masika, or rainy monsoon, according to some, begins. 

7 Ugogi. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 82. Still, cool 
morn. Clouds and wind from E. Storm of rain and thunder at night. 

8 Enter Uhehe and Usagara. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72; at 4 p.m., 
90 ; at sunset, 80. Hot morn. Clouds at 9 a.m. Stormy niglit. 

9 Temperature of air at sunrise, 73 ; at 4 p.m., 92 ; at sunset, 82. Hot 
morn in hills. Wind E. Rainy, clammy night. 

10 Temperature of air at sunrise, 75 ; at 4 p.m., 90 ; at sunset, 84. Air close, 
damp, and stormy. 

11 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 94; at sunset, 84. Cool at 
dawn. Hot, clear day. Wind E. and N.E. Halo round moon. 

12 Temperature of air at sunrise, 73 ; at 4 p.m., 93 ; at sunset, 82. Hot, 
clear morn. Sky cleared by rain. At 2 p.m., clouds. At midnight, haze 



13 Inena. Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 84; at sunset, 72. 
Hazy, muggy morn. Clouds, but no wind. At 4 to 6 p.m., heavy rain 
from a gap in southern liills. 

14 Temperature of air at sunrise, 67 ; at 4 p.m., 100 ; at sunset, 74. Nimbus 
cumulus and heavy sky. Spitting at noon. Still even. Spitting at 7 
p.m., and at 3 a.m., heavy rain. 

15 Maroro. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 96 ; at sunset, 78. 
Muggy morn. Hot sun through nimbus and cumulus. Thunder at mid- 
day. Spitting at sunset. 

16 Maroro. Temperature of air at sunrise, 67; at 4 p.m., 94; at sunset, 80. 
Cloudy morn. Windy day. Cool even. Wind, rain, and dust at sunset. 
Hot night. Starry, and very heavy dew. 

17 Temperature of air at sunrise, 69 ; at 4 p.m., 100; at sunset, 82. Cool 
morn. East wind at 8 a.m. No rain. Clouds high. Cirri and cumuli. 
Dew very heavy. 

18 Kiparepeta. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 83 ; at sunset, 




APPENDIX a 



455 



.. 78. Dew clouds tabling E. hills. Sky elsewhere clear. Breeze at 8 a.m., 
• - when sun dispersed all clouds, stratus, &c. 

19 Kisanga. Temperature of air at sunrise, 68 ; at 4 p.m., 88 ; at sunset, 78. 
Stratus on E. hills. Cold E. wind. Hot sun at noon. Eine, clear even. 
Clouds, and heavy shower at night. 

20 Xisanga. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 89 ; at sunset, 80. 
Dew clouds in morn. Clear, hot day. Pleasant E. wind. Cloudy even. 

21 Kisanga. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 90 ; at sunset, 80. 
Dew clouds in moru. Clear, liot day. Eine night. 

22 Ruhembe. Temperature of air at sunrise, 71 ; at 4 p.m., 92 ; at sunset, 
82. Clouds spitting at 7 to 8 a.m. Clear, hot day. Cool night. 

23 Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 93 ; at sunset, 78. Dewy 
morn. Day clear, and cloudy after 10 a.m. Dewy even. Clouds at mid- 
night. 

24 Kikobogo. Temperature of air at sunrise, 73 ; at 4 p.m., 94 ; at sunset, 
80. Dewy morn. No breeze. Mist from marshes. 

52 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74 ; at 4 p.m., 98 ; at sunset, 82. Dewy 
morn. jS'o breeze. Thunder and rain at night. Kain heavy drops. 

26 Temperature of air at sunrise, 76; at 4 p.m., 97; at sunset, 88. Dewy 
morn. Clouds at 10 a.m. Thunder and heavy rain at noon. Night hot, 
then after spitting rain, cool. 

27 Temperature of air at sunrise, 71 ; at 4 p.m., 97 ; at sunset, 82. Cool, 
misty morn. Hot sun. Dewy, misty night. 

28 Kirengwe (Khutu). Temperature of air at sunrise, 76; at 4 p.m., 84; at 
sunset, 80. Sun mist-veiled at 10 a.m. Wild weather, and heavy rain in 
day. Land stinks. 

29 Zungomero. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 84 ; at sunset, 
80. Cloudy morn. Wind E. Heavy rain. Cloudy even. Heavy rain 
like that of India at night. 

30 Zungomero. Temperature of air at sunrise, 70 ; at 4 p.m., 74 ; at sunset, 
72. Drizzle till noon. All damp, soppy, and steaming. 

31 Zungomero. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 74 ; at sunset, 
86. Cloudy. Nimbi and cumuli. No rain. 

IIei4A.tie:s. — Thermometer suspended in tent, fronting north, as before. 

Weather very variable. In Ugogi and Eastern Usagara the ilainy Mon- 
soon appears to have set in on the 6th Dec, 1858. 

Until Maroro, the climate had the aspect of the rainy seasons. After that 
meridian, throughout Eastern Usagara the weather held up; but these masses 
of hills seem rarely, if ever, to be without rain. The dews are remarkably 
heavy, forming a contrast with Unyamwezi and the inland regions. 

At Zungomero, reached about the end of December, the violent showers 
•which fell like buckets-full, piercing at once the thickest thatches, were called 
by the people the ' Sowing Rains.' All were busy in the fields, and labour was 
protracted till about the first week in December. 

The sea-breeze extends to Zungomero, setting in at 9 to 10 a.m. In foul 
weather sea-gulls are blown up from the coast. The vicinity of the Diithumi 
hills to the N. E., which are rarely, if ever, seen in a clear outline, and the 
mountains of Usagara westward, render this a region of almost perpetual rain. 
Its, summer lasts about one fortnight, beginning in early January, at which 
time no rain falls. 



OBSERYATIOXS MADE IX KHUTU AXD UZARAMO, DURING 
THE MONTHS OE JANUARY AND EEBRUARY, 1859. 



DAY 

1 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 95; at sunset, SO. Wet, 
muggy morn. AVind E. Shower at 5 p.m. Cloudy even. 

2 Temperature of air at sunrise, 73 ; at 4 p.m., 98 ; at sunset, SO. Fine 
morn. Wind E. Cirro-cumulus. Few high clouds. Fine even and clear 
night. 

3 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 104; at sunset, SO. Fine 
mom. Sea-breeze and clouds at 10 a.m. Violent rain from E. at 9 p.m. 

4 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 109; at sunset, 84. Stratus 
on earth. Sea-breeze and sun at 10 a.m., and at sunset. 

5 Temperature of air at sunrise, 75 ; at 4 p.m., 100; at sunset, 82. Fine 
morn. Clouds and breeze at 10 a.m., and at sunset. 

Temperature of air at sunrise, 70; at 4 p.m., 110 : at sunset, 83. Cloudy, 
dull, muggy morn. Fierce sun. Heavy rain at night. 

7 Temperature of air at sunrise, 73; at 4 p.m., 102 ; at sunset, 82. Cloudy, 
dull, muggy morn. Fierce sun. Fine even. 

8 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 100; at sunset, 70. Clear, 
line morn. Fierce sun. Fine even. 

9 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.ni., 100; at sunset, SO. Dirty 
morn. Spitting of rain. Hot sun. Showery even. 

10 Temperature of air at sunrise, 70; at 4 p.m., 98 ; at sunset, 80. Dull 
mnvn. Hot day. Sea-breeze. Fine even. 

11 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., lOt; at sunset, 82. Muggy 
morn. Suuny and cloudy d;iy. Fine even. 

12 Tem|)eraturc of air at sunrise, 75; at 4 p.m., 97; at sunset, SO. Fine, 
clear morn. Cirri and higli clouds. Fine even. 

13 Temperature of air at sunrise, 75 ; at 4 p.m., 99 ; at sunset, SO. Day hot 
and clear. Night cloudy. 

14 Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 90; at sunset, SO. Day hot 
and clear. Night cloudy. 

15 Temperature of air at sunrise, 71 ; at 4 p.m., SS ; at sunset, 80. Day liot 
and clear. Halo at night. 

10 Temperature of air at sunrise, 71; at 4 p.m., 110; at sunset, 80. Air 
misty and thick. No clouds. 

17 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; <at 4 p.m., 107; atf sunset, 88. Air 
misty and thick. No clouds. 

18 Temperature of air at sunrise, 70; at 4 p.m., 104; at sunset, 80. Air 
misty, but somewhat clearer. 

19 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., 108 ; at sunset, 80. Heavy 
clouds. Muggy morn. Fleecy sky at sunset. Halo at night. 

20 Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 108; at sunset, 84. Misty, 
muggy morn, lleav^ clouds from N. and N.E. Tourbillon of wind and 
dust at 3 p.m. Rain in large drops. Hot even and night. Lightning 
from N. and N.E. to S.E.— I to 20,Zungomero in Khutu at head of valley. 

21 Marching. Temperature of air at sunrise, 71 ; at 4 p.m., 88 ; at sunset, 
80. Misty. Sun at 9 a.m. fiery. Steamy day. Fetid air. Rain near. 



APPENDIX C. 



457 



22 Marching. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72 ; at 4 p.m., 90; at sunset, 
77. Misty. Sun at 9 a.m. fiery. Storm from S. to N. from 3 p.m. to 8 
p.m. Violent rain. Spitting at night. Fetid close air. 

23 Marching. Temperature of air at sunrise, 72; at 4 p.m., 90; at sunset, 
80. Grey sky. Sun at 9 a.m. hot. Spitting rain from 10 to 12. Light 
rain at 3 p.m. Ko sun. 

24 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74 ; at 4 p.m., 100 ; at sunset, 82. Grey 
sky. Water and air in equal parts. Spitting at 9 to 11 a.m. Sun hot at 
12. Blue sky in north. Heavy rain. Slow clouds from N. at 8 to 10 p.m. 

25 Temperature of air at sunrise, 7G; at 4 p.m., 100; at sunset, 84. Tine 
veil of mist. Wind and clouds from E. Tour days' sea-breeze. Eine night, 
but very hot. 

26 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74; at 4 p.m., lOG ; at sunset, 80. Clear, 
hot day. Wind E. Sea-breeze after 12. Hot night. 

27 Temperature of air at sunrise, 7C; at 4 p.m., 110; at sunset, 86. Misty 
morn. Wind E. at 10 a.m. Storm of wind and thunder (no rain) from E. 

28 Temperature of air at sunrise, 75 ; at 4 p.m., 110; at sunset, 84. Misty 
morn. Day hot and cloudy. Thunder at 4 p.m. Lightning at night. 

29 Temperature of air at sunrise, 74 ; at 4 p.m., 106 ; at sunset, 86. Misty 
morn. Hot sun. Heavy cumulus and E. wind, Sea-breeze.« Hot even. 
Still, starry night. 

30 Temperature of air at sunrise, 76 ; at 4 p.m., 100 ; at sunset, 86. Clear 
morn. Hot sun. Clouds at 10 a.m. Eiery sun. Clouds at 3 p.m. Wind 
E. Eine even. 

31 Temperature of air at sunrise, 75 ; at 4 p.m., 99. Clear morn. Clouds and 
wind from E. Fiery sun. Heavy cumulus. High sea-breeze. Clouds 
and spitting at 10 p.m. 

Eeb. 1. Temperature of air at sunrise, 76 ; at 4 p.m., 100 ; at sunset, 80. 
Clear morn. Clouds at 9 a.m. Rain at 10 a.m. Eine day. 

2 Ruisi. Temperature of air at sunrise, 74 ; at 4 p.m., 104 ; at sunset, 82. 
Clear morn. Clouds at 7 a.m. Showers at 10 to 11 a.m. Clouds and 
mist from E. Eine day. Clear night. 

3 Konduchi. Temperature of air at sunrise, 77 ; at 4 p.m., 99 ; at sunset, 
80. Clear morn. Sea-breeze. Eine clear day. Heat great out of sun. 

Remarks. — An anomaly was observed at Zungomero. There appeared to 
be a double sea-breeze. The earlier set in between 9 and 10 a.m. every day. 
The second rose regularly at sunset, and at times there were gusts from the 
eastward at night. This phenomenon appears purely local, and caused by 
the cold winds of the Duthumi hills, which, when the sun disappears, find their 
way to the still heated head of the Khutu Valley. 

Between Zungomero and the Mgeta Eord the sea-breeze is lost in the lower 
levels. After the Mgeta it sets in strong and regular. The rain also diminishes, 
though in winter tourbillons are conmion. When the E. wind blows cold it is a 
sign that rain is approaching, like the puffs preceding storms on the Zanzibar 
seas. 

Rain in sho':vers not common on the land above the ancient sea-beach ; when 
on the shore there is more. This accounts for superior fertility. 

Wind at Konduchi as on the coast geuerallv. Calm morn till 9 or 10 a.m. 
Sea-breeze till sunset. Calm again till fetid land-breeze sets in at night, and 
endures until morn. 



APPENDIX III. 



Obser\'atioxs duriiif^ a Voyage of Hesearcli on the East 
Coast of Africa, from Cape Guardafui south to the 
Ishmd of Zanzibar, in the II. C.'s cruisers Ternate, 
(Captain T. Smce,) and Sylph schooner (Lieutenant 
Hardy). "With short notes by Richard F. Burton. 

January 2n(l (1811), AVednesday. Sailed from Bombay 
in company with our consort, the Sylph schooner, Lieut. 
Hardy, having under convoy two merchant vessels bound 
to Mocha. 

'hd, Thursday. Spoke Lieut. Hardy, who informed us 
liis chronometer had unfortunately stopped : at noon the 
thermometer in the shade stood at 79", lat. obsd. 18" 
10' X., long. 71'^ wind fresh from N.N.E. with 

fair weather. 

4th, Friday. We had fine weather with a light north- 
easterly wind. Our thermometer, which had been fixed 
in the companion-hatch of the gun-room, was yesterday 
in the evening removed to a more exposed situation, to 
the Captain's cabin on deck. At noon to-day observed it 
had fallen to 78°, being one degree lower than yesterday : 
lat. 17^ 48' N., long. G9^ 47' E. 

5th, Saturday. During the preceding night a heavy 



APPENDIX III. 



459 



dew had fallen, but the air to-day felt pleasantly dry and 
cool. Thermometer 77^°, lat. 17° 29' N., long. 68° 46' E. 

6th, Sunday. We were in lat. 16° N., long. 66° 45' E., 
thermometer stationary at 77^°. 

7th, Monday. In lat. 16° 13' long. 64° 29' E. The 
thermometer at 76°, light winds from the N.E. with cool 
weather. 

8th, Tuesda}^ The weather still continued delightful 
with a pleasant north-easterly breeze. The thermometer 
at 75°, lat. to-day at noon 15° 44' JN"., long, per chro- 
nometer 62° 30' E. ; by a lunar observation taken at 8 
P.M. 61'^ 53', yariation of the compass per azimuth 52 
miles west. 

9th, Wednesday. In lat. 15° 32' K., long, by chrono- 
meter 60'^ 44' E. ; and by a lunar taken at 8 p.m. 60° 55". 
]N"o alteration in the state of the winds or weather, and 
the thermometer remained at 75°. 

10th, Thursday. In lat. 15° 2' K, long, per chro- 
nometer 58« 54' E. ; at 8 p.m. by lunar 58° 2? E. ; ther- 
mometer 76°. 

11th, Friday. Lat. 14° 40', long, per chronometer 47° 
11' E., and by lunar at 8 p.m. 56° 20'. The thermometer 
at 77°. 

12th, Saturday. We parted with the convoy, and, 
changing our course from W. to S.S.W., we steered 
toward the Island of Socotra. At noon observed an 
immense shoal of porpoises about half a mile astern of us, 
passing with great velocity in a direction from the north 
to the south-east. In the evening a rank smell of fish 
spawn was strongly perceptible. Thermometer at noon 
77i°, lat. 14° 35' JN"., long, by chronometer 55° 37' E. The 
wind from the east, with fine weather, and a cloudy sky. 



460 



APPENDIX III. 



About sunset tlie appearance of what seemed to be land, 
in the west part of the horizon, produced considerable 
alarm, which was soon dissipated, on observing that the 
clouds which caused this strange and remarkable deception 
began to alter their forms. 

13th, Sunday. At 5 p.m. steering S.W., we had a view 
of the Island of Socotra (Note 1) through the haze, bearing 
W". by S. J S., distant 10 or 12 leagues. Stood towards it 
with an intention of nearing the shore before daylight next 
morning, in order that we miglit have an opportunity of 
ascertaining the position of the easternmost point of the 
island, but the Sylph making the signal that she had 
struck soundings, we hove to for the remainder of the 
night. Thermometer 78^ lat. 13-^ 13' N., long. 55" 11' 
15" E. 

14th, Monday. We sounded, but found no ground, 
with a line of 80 fathoms. Made sail again at daybreak, 
and steering W. by S. coasted along the south side of the 
island about 15 miles from the shore. Lat. 12" 27' N., 
long, by chronometer at noon 54° 57' E. At 2 p.m. the 
eastern extremity of Socotra bore N. by W., and, accord- 
ing to our observations, is situated in lat. 12° 34' N. ; 
in longitude, from the chronometer at noon, 45° 45' 
33", E. 

15th, Tuesday. Continued our course along shore, in 
from 18 to 27 fathoms, over a bottom of red coral. Soco- 
tra towards the south presents an appearance extremely 
dreary ; its arid rocks seemed destitute of trees or verdure 
of any kind, at least, none were visible to us, though fre- 
quently examined through our best glasses at only a few 
miles distance. On approaching it from the cast, land 
showed in the form of a high promontory, termed by 



APPENDIX III. 



461 



navigators the Dolphin's nose.^ As we brought the south 
cape of the island abreast of us an extensive rocky preci- 
pice of considerable height, and remarkable for its uni- 
formity in this respect, approaching close to the water's 
edge, concealed the land in the interior and appeared to 
occupy the whole centre of the island, the land at each 
extremity terminating in irregular mountains, some of 
which on the east are of a good height. We ascertained 
the position of the south cape or headland to be in lat. 12" 
20' N., long. 53° 3? E., and that of the western extremity 
as far as visible in lat. 12^^ 24' T^., long. 53« 26' E. Con- 
tinuing to steer AY. by S., we saw the two small square 
isles called b}^ the English The Brothers, bearing about 
50 miles W.S.AY. of the south cape of Socotra ; the 
eastern one named by the Arabs Duraga,^ or Degree 
Island, is situated, according to our observation, in lat. 12*^ 
7' IN"., long. 53° 23' E ; from the east it has very much 
the appearance of a castle or citadel. The other, called 
Sumhaa, is about 8 or 10 miles west of Duraja, has a re- 
markable rocky process on one end bearing a striking re- 
semblance to a sentry-box or watch-tower. Its position 
is in lat. 20'^ 8' K., long. 53-^ 18' E. The weather still fine, 
with a cloudy sky, the thermometer at 76 J ; lat. to-day at 
noon 12" 2' jS^., long, per chronometer 53° 30' E. 

16th, "Wednesday. Pursuing our course west and by 

According to Captaiu Guillain (ii. 344) the Arabs call it Eas 
Mume. As regards the term Dolphin's Nose, he observes: 'Je dois 
avouer qui I'analogie pourrait etre plus saissisante et elle accuse au 
moins beaucoup d'imagination chez eux qui I'ont remarquee.' He ap- 
pears to ignore that Dolphin's Nose is a recognized term for a long thick 
point seen en profil, and understood by every English sailor. 
^ Better written Darajah, meaning a step, a tier. 



462 



APPENDIX III. 



soutli, we at noon passed tlie Island of Abdulcuria/ the 
disjointed rocks of which appeared at a distance like so 
many separate isles. It extends in a N.W. and I^.E. 
direction, and bears from the south Cape of Socotra W. 
by S. 100 miles, and 50 miles W. ^ S. of the Brothers ; 
the island is an appendage of Socotra, to the chief of 
which it is subject ; it is said to afford plenty of fresh 
water.^ Passing this island, the high land on the eastern 
extremity of the African Continent presented itself to our 
view, and at 9 p.m. we hove to with the ship's head to the 
S.E.— Cape Guardafui, bearing W. by JST. J INT., distant 9 
or 10 leagues. We were still favoured with fine cool 
weather, the thermometer at 77°, with light winds varying 
from N.E. to E. and S.E., and the sky generally over- 
spread with light-coloured clouds : with the excejDtion of 
the night of the 5th, no dew has fallen since we sailed. 
Lat. at noon IF 49' N. ; long, by chronometer 52° 13' E., 
variation by azimuth 5° oV W. ; the position of Abdul- 
curia according to our observations is in JSTorth lat. 12°, 
and long. 52' 20' E. 

17th, Thursday. At sunrise made sail again, steering 
in a S.W. direction along the Continent of Africa 
in from 35 to 70 fathoms, — white sand and coral ; but about 
4 P.M. it falling calm, and finding a current setting us in- 
shore at the rate of half-a-mile an hour, came to in 38 
fathoms to prevent ourselves being imbayed. At C, a 

' Abd cl Khuri, ' tlie slave of the (married) priest or secular clerr^y- 
man.' The people of Socotra were once Cliristians all. Others write 
the name Abd el Kari, or slave of the Koran reader. 

2 On the Island of Abd el Khuri, only 20 leagues west of Socotra, 
heavy showers begin with February and end with April. Modern 
travellers declare that there is not a single stream except during the 
rains, and that the well water is all more or less brackish. 



APPENDIX III. 



463 



breeze springing up from the eastward, encouraged us to 
make another attempt, but presently dying away, we were 
again obliged to anchor. While lying here we put out 
our lines and caught one fine rock-fish, which are probably 
very plentiful, as we observed our consort, the Sylph, haul 
up several in a short space of time. At 10 p.m. weighed 
with a light easterly wind, and stood to the S.E. We 
had this day cloudy wreath er, with light variable winds ; 
the thermometer at 78^^. Lat. 11° 41' Is . ; long, per chrono- 
meter at noon 51° 14' S. According to this as Cape Guard- 
afui is in ]^^. lat. 11° 49', long. 51° 13' E. 

18th, Friday. Working ofi" shore with light baffling 
winds, in from 45 to 55 fathoms, sand. The weather 
cloudy, with slight showers of rain, and a lowering sky. 
A considerable dew had fallen during the night, and the 
air to-day felt damp and unpleasant. The thermometer 
at 7^\^ ; found the current setting us in-shore at the rate 
of one mile per hour. Lat. 11^ 30' X. ; long, by chrono- 
meter at noon 51'' 31' 15'' E. 

19th, Saturday. Dew at night, and during the day 
southerly winds continued to prevail with damp cloudy 
weather, and occasional showers of rain ; the thermometer 
at 78y. Tacking ofi" and on shore, we had in the course 
of the day another sight of the Island of Abdulcuria and 
the Brothers, the former bearing X.W. of us, and the 
latter in a north-easterly direction. Lat. obsd. 11^ 42' N. ; 
long, by lunar at 9 a.m. 51^ 56', and by chronometer at 
noon 52** 5', E., variation by azimuth 7^ W. About 6 
P.M. in attempting to tack, the ship refused to stay, and, 
in consequence, got foul of the Sylph, which we at the 
time had in tow. Fortunately, however, after some 
alarm and a little trouble, we soon got clear again, with- 



464 



APPENDIX III. 



out material damage being sustained by eitber vessel. 

20tb, Sunday. Continued working along tbe African 
sbore witb fresh southerly winds, the thermometer at 
79j^ Cape Guardafui and the Brothers still in sight. 
Abdulcuria at sunset bore and by E. of us distant 14 
or 15 leagues. Lat. 11^ 27' IN". ; long, per lunar at 9 a.m., 
52'' 24' E., and by chron. at noon 52*^ 29' E., variation per 
azimuth GJ^ W. 

21st, Monday. Still working against the southerly 
winds ; no land in sight. The thermometer at 79Jo- Lat. 
observed at noon 10" 50' N. ; long, by lunar at 10 a.m. 
52" 37', and by chron. at noon 52" 43' E., variation, 
8° 20' ^Y. 

22nd, Tuesday. During the early part of the day 
fresh southerly winds, with the thermometer at 79 .J". 
Towards the evening it fell calm, when we lowered the 
boat and tried the current ; found it setting to the north- 
ward at the rate of half a knot an hour. Lat. observed 
10" 43' N. ; long, by chron. 53° E. 

23rd, Wednesday. We had light southerly winds and 
calm in the morning, but a northerly breeze springing up 
in the afternoon permitted us to lay our course S.W. 
Still no land to be seen. The thermometer at 79i". Lat. 
observed 10" 28' N. ; long, by chron. 53" E. 

24th, Thursday. Steering W.S.W. with a fresh north- 
erly breeze. The weather damp and misty, and frequent 
drizzling rain. Thermometer 78|". Lat. observed 9" 8' 
N. ; long, by chron. 51" 55' 15" E. 

25th, Friday. Proceeding westward, we in course of 
the forenoon saw land, which, as we now approached that 
part of the coast where the objects of our investigation 
lay, was looked to with anxious expectation. It bore 



APPENDIX III. 



4G5 



]S'.\Y. by distant from us 5 or 6 leagues, and by the 
situation of the ship, knew it to be the land between Cape 
Orfui ^ and Cape Basseos : ^ as this coast has been hitherto 
considered as desert and inaccessible, we were anxious to 
examine it, but the thick haze which hung over the land, 
and the light winds and currents which we never failed to 
experience on nearing the shore, obliged us to heave off 
towards the evening to avoid getting imbayed ; the land, 
as it appeared to us, seemed fully to justify the descrip- 
tions given of it. It seemed of a moderate uniform height, 
and barren and sandy, without vestige of habitation, or 
vegetable production of any kind. "VYe hove to for a 
short time in the afternoon, and discovered by striking 
soundings in thirty fathoms, and suddenly deepening 
again, that we had happened on a sandbank, many of 
which probably lay along this coast. While we lay to the 
lines were put overboard, and shark and rock-fish of 
various kinds being found in great plenty, a good 
number was soon taken, sufficient to furnish the whole 
ship's company with a fresh meal in the evening : made 
sail again, standing out from the land. We had to-day 
moderate north-easterly winds with fair weather ; the 
thermometer at 80". Lat. observed S"" 20' IN". ; long, by 
chron. at noon 50° 32' E. ; variation 6" 12' W. Imme- 
diately after discovering land, we perceived a large dow 
or boat close in shore, which appeared eager to avoid us. 

26th, Saturday. At daylight we could see nothing 
either of the boat or land, having lost sight of both during 
the night. Standing in, we again saw the coast about 7 

» Has Hafun (not Jard Ilafun), N. lat. 10" 2G' S" (Rap?r). 
- Ponta das Baixas, the Cape of Shoals, the point called by the 
Arabs lla'as Aswad (Black Head), in N. lat. 4° 32'. 
VOL. II. 30 



466 



APPENDIX III. 



in the morning. Its appearance was similar to what we 
sailed along the preceding day, only it was more flat, and 
considerably lower,^ but equally barren. Kept our way 
along shore at the distance of about 6 or 8 miles, in from 
10 to 25 fathoms, sand and shells. A little before sunset 
we hove to in 25 fathoms, and were again very successful 
in fishing. At 6 p.m. made sail, still keci^ing a respect- 
able distance from the shore. The weather clear and 
warm, with steady easterly winds, the thermometer at 
79i^ Lat. T'^ 10' N. ; long, per chron. 49° 42' 30" E. 

27th, Sunday. Continued our way along the coast three 
or four miles from the shore, in from 20 to 25 fathoms, 
sand and gravel, witli a very strong current^ in our favour. 
The land opposite us to-day was low and even, and had 
somewhat a better appearance than any we had for some 
days before seen. Green spots were here and there ob- 
servable, and we could distinguish on the shore several 
natives and a few cattle, but of what description wo were 
not near enough to ascertain. Fish still continued to bo 
caught in great abundance. About 3 p.m. saw higher 
land^ ahead, which we took to be Cape Bassas (Note 2), 
the position of which, though described to be a very dan- 
gerous place, had never been accurately laid down ; wo 
were therefore anxious to determine it, and to liave an 
opportunity of doing so properly, kept working to wind- 
ward that we might not pass it during the night. Winds 

' They were approacliin;^ the Savf Tawil or Lon;^ Shore, whicli ex- 
tends from Ka'as el Kliayl (X. lat. 7" 10' liO ") to Ka'as Awaz, the Cape 
of Ciiantjc, where the lli^'hlaiids full. 

^ January bcinf^ tlie heii^ht, of the Mansim or Kaskazi, when the 
Azvab or N. E. wind blows home. 

' The Ili^'hlauds were Jebel t l Ilirab, the * Mountain of the Kcr l,' 
because it appears like a huG^c dow upturned. It rises some 9 to 10 
miles from the seaboard, and backs the Ponta das Baixas or Ka'as Aswad. 



APPENDIX III. 



4G7 



still easterly witli warm weather. The thermometer at 
79J^ Lat. 5« 37' N. ; long, by lunar at 8 p.m. 49« 20' E. ; 
variation per amplitude S'^ 40' W. 

28th, Monday. Passed the elevated land seen yester- 
day afternoon, and at 2 p.m. Cape Bassas was abreast of 
us, distant a few miles. The real situation of this cape we 
had difficulty to determine, for the land along, low and 
smooth, had so much sameness in appearance, and that 
forming the cape itself so little remarkable from the rest, 
that had we not observed the coast to recede considerably 
on each side, making opposite to us an evident projection 
or headland, we should still have remained in great un- 
certainty respecting it. At 5 or 6 miles' distance from 
the shore struck soundings in 19 fathoms, hard ground, and 
we had still a strong current in our favour, but we observed 
little or no rippling about the ship. The position of the 
cape (Note 3) according to the mean of several good ob- 
servations is in !N". lat. 4^ 44', and long. 48° 17' E., variation 
per azimuth 9° 7' W. After ascertaining the situation of 
this cape ^ we stood to windward during the night. To-day 
the weather continued fine with a moderate easterly wind, 
the thermometer at 78^. Lat. observed at noon 4° 59' IN". 

29th, Tuesday. Stood in again and steered along the 
coast to the southward of Cape Bassas at the distance of 
three miles in from 10 to 20 fathoms sand and shells. 
The land here was white and sandy, but in several places 
there was apparently tolerable pasturage ground, on which 
were seen several small groups of huts and some pretty 
numerous herds of cattle. By the number of people ob- 
served on these spots this tract seemed better frequented ; 
but its general appearance was similar with that to the 
* Ra'as Aswad in N. lat. 4" 44' 5" (Rapcr). 



4G8 



APPENDIX III. 



nortliward of tlie cape. During the preceding niglit a 
considerable dew had fallen, and the weather to-day was 
damp and cloudy, the thermometer at 78 J''. As the sup- 
posed site of the river Doara ^ (Note 4) was near at hand, 
the examination of which formed one of our principal ob- 
jects, it became desirable to avoid passing any part of the 
coast in the night, but towards the evening the wind unfor- 
tunately began to blow very fresh with a heavy swell, and 
being on bad holding ground, we were once more reluct- 
antly compelled to work to windward. Lat. observed at 
noon 4^ 14' N. ; long, by lunar at 2 p.m. 47° 42' E. ; varia- 
tion per azimuth 9" 15' "W. 

oOth, Wednesday. Continued steering S.W. about 
2 3 miles from the land, in from 7 to 10 fathoms, white 
sand and coral, the Sylpli keeping her course half way 
between us and the shore in regular soundings of 6 and 7 
fathoms. This day's sail presented the same barren pros- 
pect as the coast we had already traced ; it was still low 
and sandy, remarkably white, and to all appearance com- 
pletely desert ; neither huts, people, nor cattle of any 
description to be observed. The shore was in many 
places rocky, and a high surf beat over it. At 2 y.u. 
breakers appeared ahead, distant less than 2 miles, and a 
little beyond them, low land, which seemed to be an 
island ; to weather these it became necessary to haul off 
shore, and immediately after taking this j^recaution, the 
wind began again to blow exceeding fresh, with a very 
heavy swell, which forced us to continue standing out to 

• Still generally written Doara. It is apparently a mere Nullah or 
Fiumara, and is hardly mentioned by modern navi;^ators. I can only 
suf^gcst that the nanie might have been derived from Daaro, a district or 
tribe on the Upper Juba river, and t he inveterate confusion of the poL- 
amology in this part of Africa cau alone account for the error. 



APPEXDIX III. 



469 



sea during the whole night. "Weather still damp and 
cloudy, and the thermometer at 79 3. Lat. observed at 
noon 3^ 30' X. ; long, by chron. 47*^ 25' E. 

31st, Thursday. The wind increased to a gale and 
blew furiou-dy during the whole day and following night, 
attended with a tremendous heavy swell, which prevented 
us from approaching the shore near enough to see any- 
thing distinctly ; we could only remark that the land 
seemed to be higher than what we had lately seen. 
Weather still damp and cloudy, and the thermometer at 
79^. Lat. observed at noon 2"^ 44' X. ; long, by chron. 
46^ 5' E.; variation by amplitude 10^ W. 

February 1st, Friday. The wind moderating, we con- 
tinued our course along the coast in very irregular sound- 
ings of from 10 to 65 fathoms, rocks and gravel. At 9 
A.M. the mosques of Magadosho were seen bearing AV.S.AV. 
distant 9 or 10 miles. The late gale has therefore carried 
us farther to the southward of the reported mouth of the 
Doara — a mortifying circumstance, and to us a very severe 
disappointment, for we had promised ourselves much 
gratification in exploring that river — so interesting, and 
at the same time so little known. At noon Magadosho 
bore W.X.AY. of the ship two or three miles ; here we 
sounded, but could find no ground with a line of 80 
fathoms. The town, which is large and irregular, is 
situated on an uneven sandy piece of ground close to the 
beach ; the land behind considerably lower than that on 
either side. The houses resemble those seen in the towns 
on the coast of Arabia and Persia, and are apparently 
built of stones and mud, of a low, square form, with small 
doors and windows, and have all flat roofs. The most 
conspicuous objects are the mosques already mentioned ; 



470 



APPENDIX III. 



there are four of them ; three of which are placed iii the 
town, the other among some straggling buildings, a little 
to the northward. The land both to the N.E. and S.W. 
is of a reddish colour, thickly covered with black spots, 
and upon them some low-spreading trees, which have a 
very uncommon appearance. About ten miles to the 
southward is a remarkable white sandy hill, which, with 
the red hills already mentioned, are excellent marks in 
approaching Magadosho. The sea-shore immediately 
opposite the to\\Ti is sandy and guarded by a reef, which, 
running from tlie rocks on the N.E. to the S.W. end of 
the town, extends to about a quarter of a mile from the 
beacli ; within the anchorage is said to be excellent. 
To the S.AV., as to the N.K., tlie shore is in many places 
h)w and rocky, forming wliat lias been described as islands 
(Note 5). "We were doubtful of this, but did not go near 
enough to ascertain. AVe observed a largo village on the 
northernmost of these supposed islands, a few miles south of 
Magadosho. Having determined the position of the town, 
wo were in hopes that we might at last be enabled to 
anchor, and pursue at leisure the inquiries we proposed to 
make here concerning some of the objects of our search, 
but our bad fortune continued to attend us, for the wind 
began again to blow very fresh, with an exceedingly 
heavy swell setting in towards the shore. Under these 
circumstances, we did not think it prudent to trust our- 
selves at anchor in an open unprotected roadstead with a 
reef of rocks under our lee ; we therefore bore away 
along the coast to the S.W. of Magadosho till the evening, 
when we stood out to sea and passed a night more tem- 
pestuous than any Ave had hitherto experienced. The 
weather still damp, with heavy dews at night, thcr- 



APPENDIX III. 



471 



mometer at 78". Lat. observed at nooa 2"^ 4' X. ; loug. by 
chron. at noon 45'^ 46' E. According to us, Magadoslio 
is situated in !N^. lat. 2*^ 3'/ and in long, by cbron. 42" 
43' E. 

2nd, Saturday. Being driven from Magadosbo the 
preceding night, we intended if possible to make Meeya 
or Maiea,"^ a place laid down about 14 or 15 miles to the 
S.W. of Madagascar. At twilight, however, saw nothing 
of such a place, and were again forced to stand out to sea 
during the night, when we must have passed it ; for at 
noon to-day we were off the town of Brava in IN", lat. 1" 
ir, and long. 44" 9' E. This town is situated under some 
very high reddish land, spotted with black rocks, and has 
several small islands abreast of it at a very short distance 
from the shore, one of which, to the southward, opposite a 
white sand}^ patch of high ground, has a tower or light- 
house on it. The land between Magadosho and Brava is 
uniformly high, and has that remarkable reddish appear- 
ance already so often described. Our bad fortune still 
persecuted us ; we could not anchor here for the same 
reasons that had prevented us at Magadosho ; we there- 
fore yielded to our fate, and again took refuge in a secure 
distance from the shore. The houses of Brava are similar 
to those of Magadosho. The weather continued unaltered, 
with the thermometer at 80" ; N. lat. observed at noon 
1" 14'. 

3rd, Sunday. At noon we were in lat. 0" 5' IST. The 
land is low and woody. Proceeded along shore, looking 
attentively for a river (^STote 6) described to discharge itself 
thereabouts : our search proving fruitless, at sunset came 

1 N. lat. 2" 2' 18" (Capt. Giiillaiii). 
* Marka town, N. lat. 1° 44' 1", geuerally kuowu as Bandar Marka. 



472 



APPENDIX III. 



to anchor tliree or four miles from the shore in 12 fathoms, 
soft sand ; the land abreast of the ship low, sand}^ and 
rocky. Though the wind had much abated to-day, still, 
however, it blew fresh with a considerable swell, and the 
weather continued damp, w^th dew at night. Thermome- 
ter at 7^\ Lat. at noon 0*^ 5' N. ; long. 43« 11' E. 

4th, Monday. About midnight the Sylph parted from 
her anchor, got under weigh early in the morning, and at 
noon passed the River Dos Fuegos, or the Rogues' River, 
and Juba ^ Irunjba, a village situated at its mouth, but at 
too groat a distance to make any particular observations. 
The coast for a little north of this river to Patta is faced 
by one continued chain of islands, some of wliich are 
large and wooded, others very small. These islands are 
sometimes connectwl by reefs ^ of rocks, over which a large 
surf beats, and sandbimks surround them. The reefs run 
through their whole length, frequently extending a consi- 
derable way out to sea ; in one place, about 20 miles south 
of Juba, even to 7 or 8 miles, opposite which is a remark- 
able high insulated rock in-shore, appearing like a K([uaro 
tower ; here also the reef stretches a long way out — per- 
haps 5 or G miles. Though there are no soundings close to 
the edge of this part of the bank, the water was remarked 
to have a very white colour, resembling tliat often seen at 
the mouths of largo rivers. The land on this part of the 
Continent is in general moderately high, and almost 

' Probably from Goba, tl»c moelinq; (scil. of waters), Gobwnn (cor- 
riiptcd to Govind) mnaiiiiii; the great infctiu;^. Ganaiia is supposed to 
mean division or bilurcation. Danok is probably a corruption of tlie 
GuUa Daneslia, a settlement on tlie left bank of the river. I nowhere 
find my notice of the ' Irunjba * village, and presume tiiat it is a corruj)- 
1 ion of ' Gobwen.' 

' This reef, bcginnini? at Makdishn, much resombles the great 
Lraziliun formation, cxtendin:,' from rcrnanibuco southward. 



APPENDIX III. 



473 



universally covered with wood ; tlie shore shelves to a 
smooth sandy beach, which is guarded by the islands and 
reefs noticed. Steady moderate north-easterly winds, 
with fine weather, but damp, and dews at night. The 
thermometer at 78 J*^. Lat. observed at noon 0^ 21' S. 

5th, Tuesday. In course of the afternoon passed by a 
deep inlet where some boats were riding at anchor, and 
at sunset were abreast of several large woody islands sup- 
posed to be those immediately north of Patta ; between 6 
and 7 p.m. came to twelve fathoms, fine sand. That part 
of the coast of Africa stretching from the equator south 
beyond our present anchorage, promises in its aspect some- 
thing very interesting to the enterprising investigator. 
The numerous richl}^- clothed islands which line the shore, 
separated by beautiful and frequently spacious inlets and 
bounded behind by a delightful continent, rich in all 
the charms of luxuriant vegetation, present to the eye a 
prospect extremely enchanting, and would seem to indicate 
a degree of natural wealth equal to the most favoured 
regions of the known globe. JN^othing could form a more 
striking contrast with that in view than the barren coast 
to the eastward of Juba.^ Fine steady easterlj^ breeze, 
with pleasant weather. It is, worthy of remark, since in 
the latitudes on this coast near the line, a heavy dew had 
been observed to begin falling immediately after the sun 
went down, and continued till some time after its rise next 
morning ; during the day the air felt very dry,^ ther- 
mometer at 79*^. Lat. observed at noon 1*^ 23' S. ; long, per 
chron. at noon 41° 59' E. ; variation 13° W. 

' The voyagers had now passed from the barren Somali Coast 
(Azania) to rich Zanzibar, where the tropical rains extend, 

- The cause of the dryness was tlie immense evaporation which the 
coolness of night deposited in the form of dew. 



474 



APPENDIX III. 



6tli, Wednesday. Yv^eiglied and worked to windward 
for the purpose of trying the current and to get clear of 
the land to observe the latitude at noon ; in a few tacks 
began to gain ground. It was therefore evident that the 
strong southerly current which runs along the coast dur- 
ing the North-east Monsoon had already began to change 
its direction, though as yet it is probably only to be felt 
near the shore. At noon saw a large dow a few miles 
astern, standing to the southward. She seemed at first ex- 
tremely cautious of approaching the ships, but seeing Eng- 
lish colours, ventured within hail, and being informed who 
we were, acquired more confidence. We were informed 
they were fiom Muscat bound to Mampasse ; ^ they said 
their shyness arose from a suspicion of our being French 
cruisers. They afterwards obligingly sent on board two 
pilots to conduct the ship to anchorage near Patta.^ At 
sunset came to six fathoms and abreast of some small isles 
at the south point of the isle of Guien, which forms tlie 
north side of the inlet adjoining the Peer Patta (Note 7), 
on which was observed a considerable town (Note 8), bear- 
ing from the ship about N.W. Fired a gun as a signal 
for a Patta pilot to carry us through the intricate channel 
to the inner anchorage. Wind still steady from the N.E. 
with fine weather. The thermometer at 70*". Lat. observed 
at noon 1" 59' G". 

7th, Thursday. A boat with pilots arrived from Patta ; 
got under weigh and proceeded through the passage at 4, 
5, and 6 fathoms, and at 11 a.m. came to again in a very 
narrow part of it leading between the N.E. point of the 
ishmd of Peer Patta and an extensive sandbank, dry at 
low water, which runs a long way out. All of these islands, 
' 3Iombasal). * The Bette of the Arabs. 



APPENDIX III. 



475 



namely, Peer Patta, Daw Patta, Mandra, &c., are faced 
with siioals of rocks and render the nayigation very diffi- 
cult, and should, with other considerations, deter trading 
vessels from frequenting this port. In the afternoon sent 
the small boat with our Hindostanee pilot to Patta, to 
acquaint the Sooltan of our arrival and intention of visit- 
ing him next day. Weather as heretofore. The position 
of this anchorage is in South lat. 2^ 4'; long, by chron. 4P 
14' 2"; variation 14° \\^. 

TEAXSACTIOXS AT PATTA.^ 

8th, Friday. The boat that went yesterday to Patta 
returned this morning, having left behind Mallum Ali, 
the Hindostanee interpreter, a circumstance which (there 
being reason to believe his stay not voluntary) added to the 
report of the boat's crew concerning the deportment of the 
natives on shore, did not tend to impress us with a favour- 
able idea of their good intentions. We had already learnt, 
from the pilots and others who had visited us on board, 
that the place was distracted by civil dissensions ; the 
Sooltanship being claimed by two rival cousins, whose 
respective adherents, occupying the same town, occasioned 
by their contentions a continual scene of confusion : and we 
knew that any correspondence with one party under these 
circumstances would, by the other, be considered as evincing a 
disposition of hostility towards them. It therefore became 
a doubt to which of these savage competitors for royalty 
we ought to pay our respects ; for though we never dreamt 
of ascertaining the question of right and wrong between 

^ This account of Patta is valuable: we hear little of the place from 
later travellers. 



476 



APPENDIX III. 



tliem, it was of some importance to discover wiiicli party 
was strongest and best able to protect and assist us in the 
prosecution of our inquiries. But this was found imprac- 
ticable ; several partisans of both factions were indeed on 
board, but each endeavoured- to make it appear that his 
own was the right and powerful Sooltan. Had the boat's 
crew been able to tell whose hands ^dalliim Ali had fallen 
into, it would have settled the matter as to the person, 
whoever he might be, there must have been a necessity 
to pay court ; but none of them could speak with certainty 
respecting him. Disappointed in obtaining satisfactory 
information concerning this point, it was nevertheless 
determined to persevere in the resolution of visiting Patta. 
Accordingly about 11 a.m. Captain Smee, in company 
with Lieut. Hardy, myself, and the pilots, carrying with 
with us a present (Note 9) for the Sooltan, left the ship in 
the large cutter, manned with Europeans. It was judged 
prudent to take Arabs (though, to prevent misunderstand- 
ing, they remained concealed till compelled to produce them 
in our own defence). AVe had scarcely got a mile from the 
ship when we were met by a boat belonging to Sooltan Ham- 
med with presents for Captain Smee ; but finding him on 
his way to Patta he declined going any farther ; the chief 
man and one of the Sepoys came into the cutter, and their 
boat returned with us to town. This conduct appearing 
very suspicious, determined us to act cautiously and avoid 
particularly giving any pretence for violence. After two 
hours' sail we arrived off Patta : it was then low water, 
and the cutter could not approach nearer to the shore than 
half a mile ; we were therefore obliged to go separately into 
small canoes which the negroes pushed through the mud 
to the beach. On landing nobody appeared to receive or 



APPENDIX III. 



477 



conduct us to tlie Sooltan — another suspicious circumstance 
that did not give us much encouragement. But, had such 
been our desire, we had already gone too far to return, for 
the cutter with all the Europeans and Arabs were at some 
distance, and we had no means of rejoining them. Those 
who landed were — Captain Smee, Lieut. Hardy, and myself, 
the Syrang,^ captain's servants, with the pilots and persons 
from the Sooltan's boat. Under the direction of these 
last we walked from the landing-place, surrounded hj a 
crowd of armed savages, to a large unshapely heap of mud 
called the Palace of Sooltan Hammed, where we met with 
our interpreter, !Mallum Ali. Having entered it through 
a wicket in a strong door or gate, w^e were conducted 
across a square court to a kind of open porch used, it 
seems, as a place of public audience ; in it were placed 
several low beds or couches with broken rattan bottoms, 
on one of which we were desired to sit down. They were 
excessively dirty and looked as if they had been stolen 
from some native brother in India. Immediateh^ to the 
left of the one in which we were seated, stood the Sooltan's 
seat or throne, being nothing more than a new wooden 
arm-chair vath a high back, and some rude carving on it. 
On the ground before, a round piece of wood or stone with 
a hole in the middle supplied the place of a footstool ; 
and around stood a crowd of naked men and boys, for all 
ranks and descriptions have, it seems, here free access to 
the presence of their sovereign. The Sooltan immediately 
entered, and, holding out his hand to us severally, took 
ours, and put the back of it to his mouth — a ceremony the 
natives reversed ; they all kissed the back of his hand. 
He is in person of a middle stature, rather corpulent, and 
^ Sarbang, or native boatswain. 



478 



APPENDIX III. 



has an agreeable countenance ; I imagined his age to be 
about 35. He was dressed in a long, dirt}^, yellowish- 
coloured gown with a greasy turban on his head, and 
filthy loose slippers on his feet, and in the left hand 
carried a sabre, the handle of which was of black wood 
ornamented with gold and silver. Being seated, a tin 
goblet of sugar and water, the favourite beverage of the 
country, was handed to each, which having drunk, the 
presents, with the letters from government, were delivered 
by Captain Smee, who complimented the Sooltan in the 
name of Mr Duncan and the Honourable Company. lie 
returned the comjDliments, but did not at that time open 
the letters. A conversation afterwards ensued, in which 
the objects of the voyage were stated, with a request for all 
the information in his power respecting them ; but he 
seemed dissatisfied with the explanation of our views, 
which he probably suspected concealed designs of a dan- 
gerous nature, and appeared to stand very much on the 
reserve. To our interrogations about the unfortunate Mr 
Park ^ and his associates, he only answered, * How can I 
speak of the man ? I never saw him.' Ilcgarding the 
rivers on the coast he confessed Rogues River to be of 
immense extent, tliat its sources were far beyond his 
knowledge, commonly believed to be in Europe, or, as he 
expressed it, * in our country that a great number of 
slaves were brought down it to Brova ; but as to the 
towns, state of the country, or people which dwell on its 
banks, he said he was totally ignorant. At my sug- 
gestion it was proposed to introduce the vaccine or inocu- 

* Englishmen at the time were full of the fate of Mr Park, and 
they knew little of Africa, who expected the people of Patta to hare 
heard of the Niger. 

2 Probably meaning Abyssinia. 



APPENDIX III. 



479 



lation at Patta, with, the means for wliicli I was ready 
provided. The Sooltan asked if that was possible, for, 
allowing I might be able to do such a thing, how could 
it be propagated so as to be of advantage. It was replied 
that a sufficient number of persons might be easily in- 
structed for the purpose ; but he seemed to doubt the 
truth of this assertion, and treated the proposal with con- 
temptuous neglect. Then, rising, he abruptly withdrew. 
Thinking the audience at an end, we were about to retire, 
but it was intimated that we must walk into another 
apartment, whither they conducted us, the way to it lead- 
ing through the opposite side of the court and up a 
narrow mud staircase : this room was better furnished, but 
equally filthy and more gloomy than the former. The 
Sooltan soon followed us, and it presently appeared, if we 
did not pay a very high price for liberty to take leave of 
his Highness, we must consent to remain for a time much 
exceeding either our pleasure or convenience. Seating 
himself for a moment and whispering to some of his attend- 
ants, he rose, and with them retired into an inner room, 
where Captain Smee was called, and remained separated 
from us during the rest of the conference, which lasted 
till near sunset. About 4 p.m. they all came out for a 
few minutes, and at this moment a lascar arrived from 
the boat and told us the people had been fired upon, but 
that on showing their arms they desisted. This outrage 
(we had a flag of truce flying all the time) was taken no 
notice of. The Sooltan laid it to the charge of his cousin's 
(Note 10) party. His Highness, however, seemed perfectly 
ashamed of his own treatment of us, which was such as 
he .did not care to make public, for he carried Captain 
Smee a second time into the private apartment for the pur- 



480 



APPEXDIX III. 



pose, as we afterwards understood, of extorting a promise 
of money and other articles from him. Our feeKngs were 
at this moment very uncomfortable. It was easy to see 
some mischief was in hand, for the place where we sat, 
and the passages about it, were filled with armed men ; 
those who before had none, going out and returning with 
spears, bows and arrows, &c. !Xear sunset, Captain Smee 
again came out and, without sitting down, said he was 
going to the beach ; we followed, and though environed 
by an armed multitude, reached it without molestation. 
Finding the boat, by the rise of the tide, had got close in, 
we embarked with great satisfaction. When Captain 
Smee was first callc-d out, the Sooltan required that he 
should supply them with 15 muskets, 10 pistols, 11 bar- 
rels of gunpowder, several parcels of flints, &c. This 
demand was remonstrated against, on the ground that 
these articles belonged to the Company his masters, and 
if he parted with tliem he could not defend himself 
against his enemies, — two of whose vessels, they them- 
selves had acknowledged, were at Zanzibar and Quaile- 
mane ; but again reflecting he was entirely in tlieir power, 
promi.-?cd to comply with their requisitions as far as com- 
patible with the safety of the ships under hia command. 
They seemed satisfied ; said the French vessels at Zanzibar 
and Quailemane were only small vessels trading for 
slaves, and for the time put an end to the conference ; but 
encouraged by success (for they seemed to place great 
confidence in the promise of an Engli'thman), a second 
request for money to satisfy 'their soldiers was made, to 
which Captain Smee positively refused to accede. He 
told them he had no money to spare ; asked if the letters 
ho had delivered had been read ; if so, that he was aston- 



AFPFyDTX TIL 



ished they sbjiild m^ike so iiiirfa.s.:r.A:lf dfzi.i,::.!. To 
this they retomed lUi eqviv jarjii: :mswer; first they had 
not ; then they had read them. PerceiTing him anxiooa 
to take leaye (for they evidently intended to protract &e 
interview till it should he too late for the boat to get off), 
they insisted on his staying to eat; ^d he had bdtt»> 
stay all night, for there was not water enough for the 
boat to get to the ship. He said he wonld go and see, and 
without giving time for deliberation^ walked ont and for- 
tnoately got to the beach before the rabble without knew 
anything of the af^dr. Having got the two pilots into 
the cutter and a Sepoy belonging to the Sooltan's boat 
who was still waiting on the beach, we put off, determin- 
ing to keep him as a security for the safety of Mallum 
Ali, who remained behind to preserve a show of Mid- 
ship with the Sooltan, and at midnight reached the shipe^ 
much fatigued, and happy at having escaped so welL 



DESCEIPTIOK OF PATTA, 

The town of Patta stands on a low sqnare point 
between two salt-water creeks surrounded with woods, 
chiefly cocoa-nut trees, and is composed of wretched mud 
buildings. ^N"© fruit except the coocoa-nut was met with, 
and it was found impossible to procure any fresh water. 
The sheep, which are covered with hair instead of wool, and 
their goats are excellent (^ote 11). The inhabitants belong 
to the SouaUie * tribe, a people sprung from a mixture of the 
Galla ^ negroes with the Arabs, Ctc. T>o it r. ve and 

* The Wasawahili, or coast tribes. 

* The Gallas or Onnas are nesr^ids. not ne^iTW:? This trill 
answer Note 23, vhich compares the Gallas with the west coast * rii^ rs.* 

VOL. n. 51 



482 



APPENDIX III. 



thick lips, so peculiarly distinctive of the African coun- 
tenance, is generally observed among them, and sufficiently 
marks their original connection with that race ; ^ the woolly 
covering of the head universally prevails ; the colour of 
their skins varies from a reddish brown or tawny hue, 
like the Arabs, to nearly a deep black ; in their dis- 
positions they are cunning and treacherous to the last 
degree.^ 

On the 9th, the same boat we met yesterday, and 
which returned with us to town, arrived at the ships with 
presents from the Sooltan, consisting of 60 cocoa-nuts, three 
white bullocks, and three goats in charge of one of his 
principal men, who came to receive the articles, the 
promise of which had been extorted during the interview 
at Patta. To give no cause for quarrel, the Sooltan's 
present was accepted, but the boat was sent back with an 
answer that until Mallura Ali should be sent on board 
not a single article would be parted with. The pilots 
perceiving the boats go away without them, became very 
outrageous, and attempted to leap overboard, but finding 
themselves too well guarded, they desisted, and began to 
say (in direct contradiction to what they formerly asserted, 
and on the strength of which we had allowed ourselves to 
be brought to the present anchorage) that there was not 
water enough for the ships to get through the channel of 
the SAY., as the wind rendered it impossible for us to 
return the way we came in, and the above passage the 
only one by which we could keep clear of the shoals which 

' The mixture of blood is with the negro races of tlie interior, 
driven down as slaves, and with the Arabs and Persians, whose first emi- 
gration dates probably from prehistoric ages. 

' We can hardly give them a better character now. 



APPENDIX III. 



483 



surrounded us. We determined to detain the pilots till the 
ships were out of danger. 

Xext day, the 10th, the boat returned with Mallum 
Ali, though the promise given to the Sooltan was com- 
pulsory, and did not, strictly speaking, deserve the least 
regard ; yet out of respect to the word and honour of an 
Englishman, as well as for the sake of any of our country- 
men who might hereafter fall into their hands, and on 
whom they might be tempted to retaliate their disappoint- 
ment, it was resolved to adhere to our extortod eno^ao^e- 
ments as far as consistent with the safety of the ships. 
Therefore five muskets, two pistols, two barrels of gun- 
powder, two bundles of musket-ball cartridges, and 160 
flints, being all we could spare, were delivered, with 
which they departed very well satisfied, and thus termin- 
ated this troublesome business. 

From the 10th to the 12th we were occupied in getting 
through the S.TV. channel, which proved a very tedious 
job. The pilots were either too ignorant or too unwilling 
to be of much service, and it became necessary to keep 
our boats out sounding in order to discover the passage, 
and direct the ships how to steer : we found it very 
narrow, and interrupted in two places by bars, on which 
at high water we found not more than one quarter less 
three fathoms. From the anchorage the channel ran 
W.S.W. J W., about half a mile, and then turned to the 
southward. In leading out on the 1 1th the Sylph grounded, 
but soon got oflT again ; on the evening of the 1 2th, 
having got clear of the sands and rocks, dismissed the 
pilots, and stood out to sea during the night. Since an- 
choring at Patta the weather (with the exception of the 
morning of the 8th, when a few drops of rain fell) was 



APPENDIX III. 



fair with, pleasant easterly winds, and heavy dews at 
night. The thermometer generally at 82^. The town, as 
near as we could ascertain (for we had no opportmiity of 
determining it exactly), is in lat. 2" 8' S., and long, by 
chron. 41° 13' E., variation 14« ^Y. 

13th, Wednesday. No land in sight ^ during the day, 
and light easterly winds and calms prevailed with clear 
weather. Lat. at noon 2^ 48' S. 

14th, Thursday. The course N.E. by E. Saw land 
bearing W.N.AV., on which several large fires were burn- 
ing, and at sunset were abreast of some small rocky islands, 
which seemed a continuation of the chain to the north- 
ward of Patta. Wind favourable. Lat. 2° 48' S. 

15th, Friday. In lat. 2" 41' S., variation per azimuth 
13° 29' W. Fine weather, with light favourable winds. 

16th, Saturday. In course of the afternoon yesterday 
we passed a reef of rocks, part of which rose considerably 
above the surface of the water, and had a very remark- 
able appearance. The reef runs from the N.E. point of 
Formosa Bay (Note 12), stretching several miles off' shore in 
a south-easterly direction ; the situation I supposed to be 
in South lat. 2" 45', for having to-day at noon observed in 2" 
58', it was then 15 or 16 miles astern of us. At noon the 
S.W. point of Formosa Bay bearing S.W. by W., observed 
two boats under the land ; stood in with a view to speak 
them, and fired two guns which they took no notice of, 
but crowding all sail, made round the point into the 
Bay. Crossing the mouth of Formosa Bay at 5 p.m., saw 
another reef with breakers on it. We were at this time 

' During this run they passed the mouths of the Ozi Dana, Zana, or 
Pokomoni, and of the Adi, Sabaki, or Sabbak, rivers. 
2 Meliude Pillar is in S. lat. V 12' 8" (Kapcr). 



APPENDIX III. 



485 



about 4 miles from shore, in 24 fathoms sand, and the 
breakers could not, I think, be more than 1\, or at the 
farthest, two miles from the ship. At 5 h. 20' hove to in 
13 fathoms, when the water suddenly shoaled to 6, 5, and 
one quarter less 4 fathoms, rocks. On shoaling a mosque, 
or round tower, was observed on a point or projecting part 
of the shore, bearing W. f N., distant 8 or 9 miles. 
Hauled our wind, and stood out for the night, intending 
to return next morning to determine as accurately as pos- 
sible the exact situation of this dangerous shore. To-day 
there were light favourable winds with fine clear weather, 
the thermometer at 80''. Lat. at noon 2^ 58' S., long. 40"^ 
8' E. 

17th, Sunday. At noon observed in lat. 3^ 8' S., the 
mosque seen on shore within the breakers yesterday, bear- 
ing due W. (Note 13). Spoke a country boat, which informed 
us the tower or mosque was called Gumanne ; ^ also that a 
river opened at a short distance ahead, called QuiUfia.^ At 
4 P.M. were abreast of what we imagine to be this river, whicli 
has a small island at its mouth. Though the distance on 
the shore did not exceed two miles, no ground could be 
foimd with a line of 70 fathoms, and the w^ater did not 
appear to be in any way discoloured. Thermometer 79" ; 
lat. 3*^ 18' S. ; long, by chron. 40° 28' E., by lunar 40« 
30' E. 

18th, Monday. The coast rose into gently elevated 
hills, which were clothed with wood, and presented a fine 
fertile appearance. At noon the opening of the Quiliffa 

' Ra'as Gomany, N. point N. lat. 3° 0' 0" (Raper). 

^ Kileti Bay confounded with the mouth of the Adi, Sabaki, or Sab- 
bak river, which debouches a Uttle north of Formosa Bay, in which 
Melinde lies. 



486 



APPENDIX III. 



(]N^ote*14), bearing jN^. ^ E. 8 or 9 miles ; the lat. observed was 
3^ 32' S. About 2 p.m. saw another river, said to be called 
the Channay,^ distant from the ship 1\ miles right abreast. 
1^0 soundings with 38 fathoms here. It had a large shoal 
with breakers close to the mouth, and its probable position 
may be in lat. 3^ 32' S., and long. 39° 51' E. ; variation by 
azimuth 13° 26' W. To-da}' we had light easterly winds, 
with clear warm weather, the thermometer at 80 J'^. Here 
a pretty strong southerly current was experienced. 
Long. 39« 45'. 

19 th, Tuesday. The town of ^lombaze, or as the natives 
pronounce it Mampass, was abreast of us, distant two 
miles. The fort stands at a short distance from the shore 
on a steep woody ridge, said to be an island, and has three 
flagstafls on it. A little to the N.E. three remarkable 
hills or lunnmocks - serve as good marks for finding the 
place. Its situation my be in S. lat. 4" 2', and in long. 
39° 41' 30" E. At noon spoke a boat with a cargo of slaves, 
two days from Zanzibar, and towards evening saw the 
Island of Pemba a-head ; worked to windward during 
night to weather it. Pleasant easterly breezes, with line 
clear weather. The thermometer at 80". Lat. at noon 4" 7' 
S., long, by chron. 39" 51' E. 

20th, Wednesday. No land in sight during the early 
part of the day, which was sultry and calm, but in course 
of the afternoon, a breeze springing up about sunset, 
saw the Island of Pemba bearing S. J W. four or five 
leagues. In the evening stood out to the eastward, intend- 

' Possibly the Mtu Apa (Tuaca or Nash river), or the Takauiigu 
streamlet, farther north. 

^ The Coroa de Mom baza on the mainland nearly due north 
(magnetic) of the settlement. 



APPENDIX III. 



487 



ing to return next da}' and observe the position of this island. 
The thermometer at 81^. Lat. observed at noon 4*^ 34' S. 

21st, Thursday. At noon observed in 5^ 7' S. the east 
point of Pemba, bearing west about two miles. Pemba is 
a low even island of considerable extent, being perhaps 16 
or 17 leagues ^ in length. It is entirely covered with wood, 
and appears well-peopled. The shore, generall}^ low and 
steep to the water's edge, shelves in some small spots 
to a sandy beach remarkably white, that at a distance 
shows like walls or pieces of buildings. Throughout its 
whole extent are numerous creeks or inlets, and towards 
the S. W. end is a deep bay with several small islands at 
its mouth, hitherto as far as I know undescribed. Fresh 
north-easterly winds and cloudy weather ; the thermo- 
meter at 82^''. Stood to windward during the night. 

22nd, Friday. At noon saw the Island of Zanzibar 
a-head ; about simset anchored in 25 fathoms, green mud, 
abreast of Timbat, the largest of the small woody islands 
at the north-west end of Zanzibar. A little after the 
Sylph came close to us : the thermometer at 82"^ ; lat. 
observed at noon 5^^ 37' S. 

23rd, Saturday, 7 a.m. Weighed and stood along the 
western side of the island (the Sylph leading), in from 5 to 
15 fathoms, and at 11 anchored in the harbour in 7 
fathoms, mud. The town of Zanzibar, then S.W. by S., dis- 
tant three-quarters of a mile. Each vessel saluted the 
fort with three guns, which was not returned. In course 
of the afternoon sent the boat ashore with the Interpreter 
to acquaint the Hakim of our arrival. Moderate north- 
erly winds and fair weather. 

24th, Sunday. Accompanied the commanders on a visit 
* Its extreme length is 42 geographical miles. 



488 



APPENDIX III. 



to the Governor, or Hakim, as he is titled. He received 
us with great civility, and made many professions of 
friendship and assistance, which, however, in the sequel we 
did not find him disposed to act up to. We were saluted 
on landing and coming off by the fort and a ketch in the 
harbour. Thermometer 82^. Fair weather. (Note 15.) 

Proceedings at Zanzibar, from the 25th February to 
the 9th April, 1811, with some account of the island. 

Zanzibar, situated between the 6th and 7th of S. lat. 
and '59th and 40th of E. long., is an island of considerable 
extent, being nearly 50 miles in length, and 20 in brcodth ; 
its distance I'roin the east coast of the African Continent, 
along which it stretches in a N.-casterly and S.-westerly 
direction, may be about 15 or 16 leagues;^ between the 
Continent and it, however, there is no passage for large 
vessels, except througli the harbour, as a reef runs oblique- 
ly across Irom the African hhore to tlie small islands which 
lie close to the western side of Zanzibar.'* These islets, which 
stand considerably nearer to the south than the north (Note 
16) extreme of the island,^ are all, except one, covered 
with wood, and help to form the harbour. They run in a 
semi-circle, the concave side of which is towards Zanzibar, 
and are connected together by reel's of rocks, which,, in 
blowy weather, break the swell, and render the port re- 
markably smooth and safe. The entrances into it are 
I'rom the north and south ; both lead between the small 
islet at the extremity of the semi-circle and the western 

I ' For leagues, read geographical miles. 

2 Modrrn charts show no such reef, and the minimum of mid-chan- 
nel is 15 fathoms. 

' Tliey are about midway in the island's length. 



APPENDIX III. 



489 



shore of Zanzibar. The northern entrance, which leads 
within the small woody isle, called Frenchman's Island,^ 
is very narrow and crooked, in consequence of sand-banks, 
which run out from opposite shores, crossing each other. 
On the shallowest part (which will be known by bringing 
three northern woody isles in one) the depth is not more 
than three or four fathoms. The southern passes between 
a sandy isle (Note 17), and the point on which the town of 
Zanzibar stands is broader than the other, and has 7 or 8 
fathoms water in it. The depth within the harbour is from 
7 to 9 fathoms, with a tolerably good bottom : the rise of 
water during spring is nearly three fathoms.^ Immediately 
adjoining the north end of the town is an extensive creek 
or inlet^ which runs a little way in, and turns up behind the 
town. Here vessels of all descriptions are hauled up in 
security during the virulence of the S.W. Monsoon. "With 
a very little care it might be converted into an excellent 
dock, and deepened, so as to admit with ease ships of at 
least five or six hundred tons. 

The appearance of the island is extremely delightful. 
It is in general low, especially at the extremities, where it 
is thickly covered with a jungle and brushwood ; but to- 
wards the middle the land rises into hills and gentle 
eminences, which are cultivated, and clothed with cocoa- 
nut trees. Besides the periodical rains which fall here 
from the month of March to September, the island itself 
is well- watered with a variety of springs, which unite and 
form a number of delightful streams, that flow during the 
dry season, and keep up that appearance of fertility and 
beauty, which it exhibits throughout the whole year. 

^ Champani, the * He des Franjais,' or Cemetery Island. 
^ The average rise is about 13 feet. 



490 



APPENDIX III. 



None of these streams are large : that at which the ships 
water ^ is situated about 1 J mile north of the town, where 
it flows into the sea, at the north entrance of the harbour. 
The water when first taken up is good, but from the 
quantit}^ of putrid vegetable matter in suspension, upon 
keeping a short time it becomes very offensive both in 
taste and smell ; in a few weeks, however, it regains its 
original sweetness. Ships ought always to fill at low 
water, else they will have it brackish. The climate of 
Zanzibar is similar to that of India, only the Monsoon, or 
rainy season, sets in sooner. From September to March 
the season is dry and warm ; the rest of the months are 
rainy and tempestuous. During our stay the thermometer 
ranged from 80 J to 87^" at noon ; and from the date of 
our arrival to the 5th of March, the weather was dry, 
cloudy, and warm, with northerly winds. From that, till 
our dej^arture, it was in general cloudy, with frequent 
violent squalls of wind, and rain from tlie S.W., attended 
with much tliundcr and lightning. 

The town of Zanzibar is situated on the west side of 
the island on a tongue of land formed by the above-men- 
tioned creek, and faces the small sandy isle which consti- 
tutes the southern boundary of the harbour. It is large 
and populous, and is composed chiefly of cajan huts, all 
neatly constructed with sloping roofs. There are, how- 
ever, a good number of stone buildings in it belonging to 
the Arabs and merchants ; and in the centre, close to the 
beach, stands a fort, seemingly partly of Arab, partly of 
Portuguese, construction. It is square with a tower at 
each corner, and a battery or outwork towards the sea, in 
which I observed four or five guns of French manufacture 
' The Mto-ni. 



APPENDIX III. 



491 



remarkable for their length. In the middle of the town 
we observed a tree^ of uncommon size : its height was about 
8 or 10 feet, and from a rude measurement which we took, 
its circumference could not, I think, be less than 36 or 40 
(Note 18). Zanzibar according to our observations stands 
in lat. 6° 6' S., and long. 39« 15' E.^ (Note 19.) It is the 
only assemblage of habitations on the island that deserves 
the name of town or even village ; for the principal part of 
the inhabitants without the town being slaves of land- 
holders, are scattered over their respective owners' estates. 
The sovereignty of the island belongs to the Imaum of 
Muscat,^ who apjDoints the Hakim or governor, and to 
whom the revenue derived from its commerce and land- 
tenures devolves. This revenue is said to amount to 
60,000 crowns annually, though I have reason to believe 
it to be much more. His whole establishment consists of 
the Hakim, an assistant or councillor, and three Arab 
officers, to command the garrison. The present Hakim is 
a slave of his own whose history is somewhat curious : he 
is named Yacoud,* and was originally from Abyssinia : he 
belonged to the Imaum's uncle and predecessor, who, de- 
tecting him in some familiarities with one of his young 
female slaves, caused him to be emasculated. Since his 
former master's death he has become a great favourite 
of the present one, who promoted him to this distant and 
lucrative government, — perhaps considering that, as he 
had lost all relish for the only pleasure that can induce an 
Arab to dissipate his own or his master's money, he 

^ The Mbuyu, baobab or calabash tree (Adansonia digitata). 

2 Corrected to S. lat. 6° 9' 6" and E. long. 39° 14' 5". 

3 A mistake in title, which I have explained at full length. 
* Of this Yakut (the ruby) many tales are still told. 



402 



APPENDIX III. 



would likely turn out a faitliful and valuable servant; 
nor has he been disappointed. Yacoud's ruling passion is 
the love of power, to attain which he himself lives like a 
beggar, and tyrannically extorts from the inhabitants 
large sums, which, with his own savings, he faithfully 
transmits as the price of his continuance in the govern- 
ment. The people, however, who live under his sway, 
detest and despise him. The revenue, as already stated, 
arises from land-tenures and customs; and though there is 
no regular land-tax levied, \qX it is sometimes resorted to 
to raise a supply, an instance of which happened wliile we 
were there. One of the Imaum's ships arrived from 
Muscat with a demand for 25,000 crowns to assist him in 
opposing the WahabecM, though I sincerely believe it was 
to defray the repairs of the very ship which brought the 
demand, and which was going to 15t»ngal for that purpose. 
As this sum was not in the Hakim's possession, ho im- 
mecliately imposed a kind of land- tux, so much to be raised 
in each district, the chief man of which was ordered to 
collect it and be answerable for its payment at a stated 
time, in default of which he was to be imprisoned. The 
other source from whence the revenue proceeds is a cus- 
tom of 5 per cent, allowed by the Tmaum to be gathered on 
all imports. This, however, is often very unjustly collected, 
and few, I believe, except Arabs, ever pay so little on their 
goods as the lawful sum. The Imaum maintains no kind 
of military force. The Hakim's slaves, amounting to 400 
or 000 men, are armed to serve as soldiers under the above 
three Arab officers. There are no imports or exports, 
though we wore told the French pay voluntarily a pre- 
mium of 10 dollars each for the slaves they take, to secure 
the good- will of the governor ; they are in consequence 



APPENDIX III. 



493 



great favourites, and from this circumstance we may easily 
account for his subsequent coolness to us, which was not 
lessened by his hearing of the surrender of the Isle of 
France while we were there, and on which occasion both 
vessels fired a royal salute. The principal articles of ex- 
port are slaves and ivory, also a small quantity of drugs 
(Note 20). The number of slaves annually sent to Muscat, 
India, and the Isle of France, &c., are estimated at not 
less than from 6000 to 10,000. The quantity of ivory is also 
very great, and is sent principally to Surat. Of imports 
the following are the chief: Surat and Dungaree cloth 
from Cutch ; iron, sugar, and rice from Bombay, rice from 
Pemba, dates from the Gulf of Persia ; slaves, ivory, and 
drugs from Magadosho, Brava, Ganu, Mombas, and other 
towns along the African coast (Note 21). The number 
of trading vessels, including those from Semap and Cutch, 
amounted at the time we left the island to upwards of 50. 
I could not procure accurate information as to the quantity 
of the above articles annually imported ; but from the 
amount of the custom, the value cannot be under £300,000. 
We were told that the demand for European goods on the 
continent was very great ; and if the natives had any 
returns to make besides ivory and slaves,^ I have little 
doubt but we might here find an extensive and lucrative 
vent for nmnerous articles of our manufacture. 

' The lucrative copal trade is not mentioned. 



s 



494 



APPENDIX III. 



A GENERAL VIEW OF THE EXPORTS AND IMPORTS 
OF ZANZIBAR. 



Exports. 

Slaves. 
Ivory. 
Drugs. 
Coir. 

Cocoa-nuts. 

Beeswax. 

Tortoise-shell. 



From Cutch. 



Imports. 

Surat cloth 
Dungaree cloth 

J""^^- , . I from Bombay. 
Sugar and rice ' 

Salt fish and Ghee, from Socotra. 

Cloths, cotton "J 

China ware 

Earthen jars 

Toys and ornaments ^ 

Rice, from Pemba. 

Dates, from Gulf of Persia. 

Slaves, ivory, and drugs \ From the 

Beeswax and > African 

Tortoise shell * Coast. 



From Surat. 



The inhabitants of Zanzibar consist of Arabs, descend- 
ants of Arabs from Souallie mothers. The Arabs are not 
very numerous ; but the principal part of the slaves and 
landed property belong to them. A considerable number 
of Banians likewise reside in the town, many of whom 
appear to be wealthy, and hold the best part of the trade 
in their hands. The Souallies form by far the major part 
of the population, and are almost all slaves to the Arabs — 
800 or 900 of them sometimes belonging to one individual. 
They are in general purshased in their native country on 
the opposite shores, when young, and are brought here by 
the slave merchants, who dispose of them either to the 
Arabs or to the merchants, &c., for exportation. Those 
are fortunate who fall into the hands of Arabs, who are 
justly famed for their mild treatment of their slaves. They 



APPENDIX III. 



495 



are allowed a small habitation on their master's estate ; 
and not being overworked, and the fertile soil furnishing 
with little trouble the means for their subsistence, they 
seem to enjoy a considerable portion of contentment and 
happiness — a strong proof of which is^ that they propa- 
gate freely. 

All, howeyer, are not equally well situated ; and the 
advocates for the slave-trade ought to witness the market 
of Zanzibar, after which, if they possess the slightest spark 
of generous feeling, I will answer for an alteration in their 
present opinion. The show commences about 4 o'clock in 
the afternoon. The slaves, set off to the best advantage 
by having their skins cleaned, and burnished with cocoa- 
nut oil, their faces painted with red and white stripes, 
which is here esteemed elegance, and the hands, noses, 
ears, and feet, ornamented with a profusion of bracelets of 
gold and silver and jewels, are ranged in a line, com- 
mencing with the youngest, and increasing to the rear 
according to their size and age. At the head of this file, 
which is composed of all sexes and ages from 6 to 60, 
walks the person who owns them ; behind, and at each 
side, two or three of his domestic slaves, armed with 
swords and spears, serve as a guard. Thus ordered, the 
procession begins, and passes through the market-place 
and principal streets ; the owner holding forth,''in a kind of 
song, the good qualities of his slaves and the high prices 
that have been offered for them. TThen any of them 
strikes a spectator's fancy the line immediately stops, and 
a process of examination ensues, which, for minuteness, is 
unequalled in any cattle market in Europe. The intending 
purchaser having ascertained there is no defect in the 



496 



APPEXDIX III. 



faculties of speech, hearing, &c., that there is no disease 
present, and that the slave does not snore in sleeping, 
which is counted a very great fault, next proceeds to 
examine the person : the mouth and teeth are first 
inspected, and afterwards every part of the body in 
succession, not even excepting the breasts, &c., of the 
girls, many of whom T have seen handled in the most 
indecent manner in the public market by their purchasers ; 
indeed, there is every reason to believe that the slave- 
dealers almost universally force the young females to 
submit to their lust previous to their being disposed of. 
The slave is then made to run or walk a little way, to 
show there is no defect about the feet ; and after which, 
if the price be agreed to, they arc stripped of their finery 
and delivered over to their future master. I have 
frequently counted between twenty and thirty of these 
files in the market, some of which contained about thirty. 
Women with children newly- born, hanging at their 
breasts, and others so old tluy can scarcely walk, are 
sometimes seen dragged about in this numner. T observed 
they had in general a very dejected look ; some groups 
appeared so ill- fed that their bones seemed as if ready to 
penetrate the skin. From such scenes one turns away 
with pity and indignation, and while he execrates the 
conductor of this infamous traffic, blushes that his country 
should ever have sanctioned such iniquity, and remembers 
with exultation the men who freed her from so great a 
disgrace. 

The number of inhabitants on the island may bo 
estimated at 200,000 (Note 22), three-fourths of whom at 
least are slaves. The Souallee tribe appears to have sprung 
from a mixture of Galla negroes, Arabs, natives of India, 



APPENDIX III. 



497 



&c. They inhabit that portion of the African coast 
extending from the equator to the Mozambique as the 
Soomallie tribes do that on the north, stretching to the 
Cape Guardafui ; their country is, however, confined to a 
narrow tract along the sea-coast, the district behind 
belonging to the Galla (^^"ote 23), who are also divided 
into two different kinds — those living north of the line 
behind the Somallies are denominated Borran Galla ; 
those on the south side behind the Souallies are dis- 
tinguished by the term Carratche. Whether these differ 
much in person or manners I have been unable to learn. 

The Souallies have much more of the negro appear- 
ance than the Soomallies ; they have both woolly hair, 
and their skins are of a deep black, but the Soomallie 
has neither the flat nose nor thick lips which dis- 
tinguishes the negro, and which is a very prominent 
feature among the Souallies of Zanzibar. The Soom- 
allies are also to be distinguished by their slender 
make, which renders them more active, and they possess 
a superior degree of vivacity to the others, who appear to 
be of a grave character. With regard to the religion and 
peculiar customs of these people, we had little opportunities 
of becoming acquainted with them. The Souallies of 
Zanzibar being under the sway of Arabs, in general adopt 
their manners ; and as to reKgion, those who profess any, 
I believe, follow them in that likewise. 

We did not observe that any of their domestic customs 
were singular enough to deserve a particular description, 
except one, which, though not peculiar to them, is perhaps 
carried to a greater length than in most other places. I 
allude to the manner in which they inter, or rather, expose, 
their dead. It is a habit all over the town to bury 

VOL. n. 32 



498 



APPEXDIX IIL 



amongst the houses, commonly under a tree, close to the 
deceased person's former habitation, which presents to a 
stranger the appearance of a churchyard, and it would be 
well if the eye alone was the only organ offended. Though 
the Arabs and wealthy are properly covered, and have 
neat tombs erected over them, the poor are only wrapped 
up in a mat, and have scarce sufficient sand thrown over 
the corpse to hide it from the view ; indeed, some part of 
it is generally to be seen sticking through, and as to the 
slaves, they are often hiid out to putrefy on the beach,* not 
a fiinjrle rajr of cloth or handful of earth beinn: hiid over 
them. In consequence of tliis disgusting practice the 
stench in and about the town is intolerable; and co- 
operating with the noxious effluvia which arisrs from the 
putrid vegetable matter during the rainy season, tends to 
produce fever and fluxes, which, we learned, make annually 
during that jxTiod dreadful ravages among the inhabitants. 

The English hav(» hitherto had very little communic^a- 
tion with Zanzibar, though the French are frequcMitly in 
the habit of coming there from the Mauritius for slaveH 
and Mocha coffee. Previous to our arrival only one 
EnMish vessel had touched at the island since Admiral 
Blankett's scjuadron was there in 1700, on his passnge 
up the coast to the Red Sea. Captain liissel, whos(» 
account of that expedition is published by Dalrymple, says 
they were told no British ships had been there previous 
to tliat, within the memory of the oldest person then 
living, and that they found the natives of the inferior 
order so ignorant of the value of coin, as to prefer, in their 
exchanges, a gilt button to a guinea. This might have 

' Every traveller down to mj own time has remarked this abomina- 
tion at Zanzibar. 



APPENDIX III. 



499 



been the case then I will not dispute ; but we not only 
found them well acquainted with money, but as dexterous 
at over-reaching in a bargain and exorbitant in their 
demands as any dealer in the bazaar of Bombay. They 
were, however, as he justly observes, very civil and 
hospitable, though not so much as he describes ; but this 
difference was probably owing to the dislike which the 
Hakim showed to us. Our taking no hand in the slave- 
trade was remarked to have considerable influence among 
the generality of the lower people in giving them a 
favourable impression of our character, and for a contrary 
reason they never failed to execrate the French, notwith- 
standing they were favourites of their Hakims. 

The soil of the island is in general light and sandy 
towards the coast, but a little inland it is found to be a 
rich black mould, seemingly composed of decayed vegeta- 
tion, and the numerous springs and periodical rains, with 
the excellent shelter afforded by the cocoa-nut trees, which 
everywhere cover the island, all conspire to render it 
extremely fruitful. JN^othing can exceed the profusion of 
fruits abounding in every quarter, all of them excellent. 
Pine-apples of the most delicious sort are growing every- 
where wild, and heaps of oranges, guavas, &c., for want 
of consumers, are left to rot on the ground which pro- 
duced them. The following are the principal fruits and 
vegetable productions of the island, viz. : pine-apples, 
guavas, mangoes, lemons, limes, oranges, plantains, ba- 
nanas, pomegranates (a few imported by the Arabs), 
cocoa-nuts, and many others, sugar-canes (Note 24), 
pumpkins, onions, sweet potatoes, and the root of a plant 
which is called by the natives mahogo (the Farina de pds ^ 
of the Portuguese). 

* rarinlia de pau, or wood-meal. 



500 



APPENDIX III. 



Why the natives do not cultivate grain is hard to 
conceive ; perhaps the great plenty of the cocoa-nuts 
and the mahogo, with the profusion of fruit, supersedes 
the necessity, and renders them averse to the labour, of 
raising corn, although their country must be exceedingly 
well adapted to it. The mahogo, which is the principal 
article of diet, is eaten by them either simply roasted or 
boiled, or it is cut into small pieces, which, being dried 
in the sun, is ground into flour, of which is made a very 
palatable kind of bread. 

The operations of agriculture are not numerous, and 
indeed consist chiefly in clearing the ground ; this is 
done by fire, and seems to be the practice throughout 
Africa. Within the tropics, where the luxuriancy of 
vegetation is so great, it would be a work of great labour, 
if not an absolute impossibility, to get rid of this in any 
other way. The time of doing it is at the end of the dry 
season, when the crops are collected and the rains are 
about to set in. In coming down the coast we observed 
fires all along the fertile country south of the line. 

Asses and camels are the only beasts of burthen (Note 
25), and being scarce, are very valuable ; horses have 
been imported by the Arabs, but will not live. Bullocks 
and goats (Note 20) are good and in plenty, and can be 
procured for a moderate price ; a good bullock fetches 
from ten to twelve dollars in the town, but might probably 
be got for much less in the country. The rest of their 
quadrupeds are cats and monkeys of various species. 
There are scarcely any dogs on the island, the Sounllics 
having a great aversion to them. When a dog accident- 
ally touches one of these people, he shows signs of loath- 
ing and abhorrence.^ 

' ' This is apparently derived from their Persian ancestry. 



APPENDIX III. 



501 



Poultry is plentiful and cheap ; sixteen large or eighteen 
small fowls may be bought for a dollar ; but, what is a 
little extraordinary, eggs are both scarce and dear, and 
when procured are generally bad : they have also Mus- 
covy ducks and Guinea-fowl_, which last are found wild 
on the island. The variety of birds and wild fowl is 
not great. The principal are the whistling duck and 
curlews, and the ibis of the ancients, so numerous on the 
banks of the Nile, pigeons, doves, and a few others. 

Spanish dollars and German crowns are the coins com- 
monly current among them ; and though they will take 
some others, they prefer these. Among the shoals and 
rocks which connect the small islands that surround the 
harbour, and in the harbour itself, delicious fish of great 
variety are usually taken in plenty, either with nets or 
with the line and hook ; and those who will take the 
trouble to examine the shoals at low-water during spring- 
tides, will find their labour amply repaid by a collection of 
curious and rare shells, which for beauty are not to be 
surpassed by any in the known world. 

Notwithstanding the heat of the climate, the vast 
quantity of wood, and filthy manners of the inhabitants, it 
does not appear that Zanzibar is an unhealthy island, 
except during the rainy season, when fevers and fluxes 
are, from the above causes, very prevalent, but which by 
proper regulations might be easily obviated. In a place 
where there is no medical assistance or receptacles for the 
diseased, it may be supposed numerous miserable objects 
would be met with ; this, however, is not the case. In 
walking about the town, I did not remark a larger pro- 
portion of these unfortunate beings than is generally to 
be met with in most of our own settlements in India. 



502 



APPENDIX III. 



Exclusive of fevers, dysentery, and their consequences, 
such as dropsy, obstruction, &c., no other disease appeared 
to be frequent except venereal, under which, in all its 
stages and forms, a very great number of persons laboured. 
Their fevers are often of the remittent form, but more 
frequently of the intermittent kind ; and in addition to 
the consequences already noticed to follow them, some- 
times terminate in an unusual weakness and pains over 
the body, particularly of the lower extremities, which 
cause sometimes a total loss of power. ^ I am unable with 
certainty to determine the cause of this ; perhaps it may 
arise from their sleeping on wet or damp ground while 
confined with these disorders. 

The small-pox, — that scourge of the human race, — 
also often visits the natives of Zanzibar. We were told 
that about two years ago it made dreadful ravages all 
over the island : 15,000 (Note 27) are said to have perished 
in the town alone. This intelligence led me to hope they 
would receive with avidity any proposal to secure them 
from the effects of so dreadful a visitation. Though the 
vaccine matter brought from Bombay was now nearly eleven 
weeks old, and I consequently had great doubts of its 
power, I was resolved to let slip no opportunity of trying 
to introduce it among them. I therefore proposed it to the 
Hakim at our first interview, confident that it would be 
eagerly solicited by those who had children and young 
slaves belonging to them. In this, however, I was much 
disappointed ; for though their interest and the safety of 
their offspring were at stake, I had the mortification to 
find their prejudices stronger than the sense of either, and 
it was with the utmost difficulty I could procure leave to 
' This is the paralysis from which I suffered iu the African interior. 



APPENDIX III. 



503 



try it on two children. Tliey were inoculated twice over, 
without being able to produce the disease ; but I had no 
great reason to regret my failure, for I afterwards heard 
that the French, who, on purchasing young slaves, always 
vaccinate them, had often introduced it among the in- 
habitants, but that it had been found impossible to propa- 
gate it. Is not this astonishing, that a people with 
whom self-interest is a stronger passion than any other, 
should be under the influence of motives which cause them 
to act in direct opposition to it ? One person — he who 
had allowed me to inoculate his children — acknowledged 
he himself had lost no less than thirty 3^oung slaves during 
the late prevalence of the disease. Perhaps the indiffer- 
ence they show at the proposal of a preventative remedy 
arises from a want of faith in its efficacy. 

We now began to think of setting out on our return 
along the coast to Mocha ; the wind had begun to set 
in steady from the S.W., and our consort, the Sylph, 
which it had been deemed advisable to convert into a 
brig, being ready to return to Bombay, whither we had 
orders to send her, we were about to depart, when a 
circumstance occurred which for some time delayed it. 

The Surat merchants, who had often complained of 
the Hakim's treatment, represented that he had de- 
manded 3500 crowns from them as their proportion 
of the tribute exacted by the Imam of Muscat, and in 
failure of pa^nnent had threatened them with imprison- 
ment. As these people were trading under the English 
flag, and were, in fact, British subjects, Captain Smee 
did not conceive that a foreign prince had any right 
to tax them, especially as the}- had already paid the 
customary port dues. Impressed with these sentiments, 



504 



APPENDIX III. 



he made a representation to tlie Ilakim, who in conse- 
quence withdrew his claims, but privately threatened the 
merchants with a double imposition after our departure. 

To prevent this, it was determined to leave the Sylph 
to countenance them during their stay, and convoy them 
across to India at the breaking up of the rainy season. 
While the Hakim, who had been extremely inimical to 
us during our stay, and always anxious for us to be gone, 
informed us he was coming to return our visit ; this he 
had on various pretences heretofore delayed ; however, 
on Sunday, the 7th April, he came on board, when both 
ships dressed and saluted him, and he was, notwithstand- 
ing his ill-behaviour, treated with {\\o, greatest atten- 
tion. 

On Tuesday, the Dth, we weighed and sailed from 
Zanzibar, and in the evening came to anchor under the 
small Island of Timbat, at the north end of the island. 
On tlie morning of this day Henry Golding, a stout, 
healthy seaman, was found dead between decks : ho had 
no kno\vn complaint at the time, and his death was 
suj)posed to have been caused by suffocation, as it was 
understood he went to sleep very niucth intoxicated. 
Having interred him on Frenchman's Island, the watering 
boat returned on board, and reported they had found the 
body of a young female recently murdered, lying among 
the bushes at the freshwater stream ; as they had no 
means of interesting the neighbours in her fate, they 
buried her immediately. On Wednesday, the 10th, we 
got under weigh, and passing between Pemba and the 
mainland, where there is a fine broad channel, we, without 
anything further remarkable occurring, anchored in 
Mocha Roads on the 2Gth April, 1811. 



APPENDIX III. 



505 



RESUME. 

I fell in with the coast of Africa in lat. 9" 30' ^N". on 
the 25th January, and from hence southward examined 
it as well as circumstances would permit. On the 7th 
February I anchored in Patta Harbour, and unfortunately 
found the country distracted by civil dissensions, origin- 
ating from two rival cousins, who each laid claim to the 
Sooltauship. I found out the most popular, which hap- 
pened to be the youngest, and on him I waited with my 
government letters, accompanied by Lieut. Hardy com- 
manding the Sylph, and Mr AVhigham, my surgeon, 
I must have been three or four hours reaching town, 
and after as long a detention there, and receiving some 
menacing insults, which will be particularly detailed on 
my return, I escaped from these wretches and reached the 
ship, much fatigued, some time after midnight, having 
been six hours in the boat returning. Finding the 
disposition of the natives precluded the success of any 
inquiries I had to make, it was deemed advisable to quit 
the port ; but another diflBculty arose, which points out 
the cunning treachery of these people : we were now 
told the vessel could not go out through the S. Chamiel 
(the only condition on which I entered the harbour), 
but must warp out the way we came in (a thing im- 
possible against the prevailing wind and sea), or that we 
must wait the chanofe of monsoon. Detectinof their du- 
pKcity, I seized and detained two natives, who were 
concerned in bringing us in, and after two or three days 
spent in buoying off a channel unknown to them, with the 
top of high-water spring tides, grounding occasionally, 
we got the vessel providentially through the banks, 



506 



APPENDIX III. 



and clear of Patta reefs, and then discharged the natives. 
Hence we proceeded southward along the coast, and on 
the 24th of February anchored in this fine harbour. 

I waited on the Hakim and was kindly received ; 
but the general conduct of this personage has since 
proved very unaccommodating. I was desirous during 
my stay here of procuring a house for the purpose of 
receiving the visits of the well-disposed, and unsuccess- 
fully applied to the Hakim for one, or the use of a 
French factory for a few days. I am told he forbid 
any one to furnish me, and has used every endeavour to 
keep visitors away from the ship. He is a person 
warmly in the French interest, and derives great 
pecuniary advantages from the trade to this port. The 
welcome news of the capture of the Isle of France was 
brought here by the Surat vessels, which arrived in the 
middle of March. The Hakim would not credit the 
account, until it was confirmed by a ship from Muscat a 
few days ago. 

The sum of the information I have been able to 
collect along the East Coast of Africa and at this port, is, I 
am sorry to say, very small. The first object of my search 
was the Doara river, which I was not fortunate enough 
to fall in with, from the strength of the prevailing winds 
and currents ; if it exists it is doubtless a very small 
stream. Magadosho, in lat. 2° 3' N., I could only 
ascertain the situation of : drifted past this. I liopcd to 
see the town of Marca, but was disappointed. I have 
been informed that it is a very small village, less than 
Magadosho or Brava ; that it has little or no trade. I 
arrived off the port of Brava, in lat. 1" 10' N. under 
the same impediments — a high wind and sea, and strong 



APPENDIX III. 



507 



currents, but expected to find shelter from tlie plan 
I had of its harbour ; however, in standing close in for 
the purpose of anchoring, I was disappointed to find it 
was impossible to bring the vessels up without imminent 
risk of parting and being driven on shore, which com- 
pelled me to haul ofi". I then looked for the river 
mentioned in my instructions, whose supposed situation 
was to be found in 5' ^NT. lat., but I could find no entrance 
whatever in that parallel. The wind moderating on the 
line, I anchored the vessels on the eve of the 3rd of Febru- 
ary, with a view of exploring the river called Dos Fuegos, 
and rendered into English by the late Capt. Bisset, 
* Rogues River.' During the night the Sylph parted her 
cable, and was driven past this entrance, whose situation 
I could only geographically ascertain. The town of 
Juba and the bar were distinctly seen in passing from 
hence to Patta. The coast is fortified by a chain of 
islands, mostly connected by reefs. Our transactions and 
inquiries at the latter port were checked by the un- 
friendly disposition of the natives. After clearing Patta, 
we proceeded southward along the coast, — ascertaining it, 
also the two points of Formosa Bay, the Leopard's Shoal, 
and the mosque near it, with Quiliff'a River, the to^vn 
and harbour of Mombas, the islands of Pemba (or 
Gedree)^ according to the Arabs, and Zanzibar, and the 
site of the coast between these places. 

My study has been to cultivate the friendship of all 
ranks, with a view of gaining information on the points 
government have instructed me ; and the result of my 
labours amounts to the following, the accuracy of which, 

' Probably a corruption of the Jezirat (el Khazra), the Green 
Island of the Arabs. 



508 



APPENDIX III. 



as far as I can judge, there is no reason to doubt. The 
fate of our countrymen, Park, Hornemann, and their com- 
panions, was my first and most anxious inquiry, both at 
Patta and this place, but I have not succeeded in meeting 
with any person who has the least knowledge of them, 
and there is every reason to suppose their fate is entirely 
unknown on this coast. 

The town of Magadosho (Note 28) is not very con- 
siderable ; it may contain 150 or 200 houses, and from 
its mosques is very conspicuous from seaward. It has not 
any river near it,^ and has but little trade, probably on 
account of the badness of its port, which only affords 
shelter for boats within a reef fronting the town. The 
town of Marca (Note 29) is small and has no safe an- 
chorage ofi" it. 

Brava town (Note 30) is composed of about 100 huts, 
and is as defective in its port as Magadosho. They are 
severally governed by Soomallic chiefs. The mouth of 
Rogues River, called Govinda by the Soomallics, Joob 
(Gibb) by the Arabs, and Foombo by the Souallics, in lat. 
0" I'i' 8., is a large and extensive river, but on account of 
its shallow bar, boats can only enter it at high water ; it 
has scarcely any trade, but such as is carried on by a few 
country boats, the natives on its banks being thieves 
inimical to all strangers. The next principal river, called 
Oazee,^ situated one day's journey south of the Isles of 
Patta and Lamoo, is also extensive, without trade. Quiliffa, 
the next, in lat. 3° 26' S., is a large and deep fresh-water 
stream, with few inhabitants and no trade. Foongaruy ^ 

' The author had forgotten, or rather he had not seen, the * Nile 
of Magadoxo.' 

2 The Ozi river, south of Patta. 

3 The Panga-ni river, which the Arabs would pronounce Panga-ni. 



APPENDIX III. 



509 



river, off tlie N.W. end of Zanzibar Island, is next ; it is 
in about lat. 5° 45' S. Leefeege ^ is another large river 
opposite Moonfia Island ; and tbere is also a considerable 
stream off the port of Quiloa or Keelwa.^ Along this 
extent of coast are many minor streams, but not one seems 
to possess advantages as places of mercantile resort, or the 
Arabs would, no doubt, ere this have benefited by any 
trade they held out. The tides flow up the larger streams 
one day's journey from their mouths, and it is confidently 
reported they all take their rise among the mountains in 
Abyssinia. 

Five or six coss, or about one day's journey at the 
back of the towns of Magadosho, Marca, and Brava, is 
situated a small stream called the Doho ; ^ it does not join 
the Govinda, being lost among some hills before it reaches 
so far south. It appears to me to be (from the accounts of 
the reporter, an intelligent Soomallie) a branch of the 
Zeebee,* which he calls the Dawaha, where the Doha 
joins. The other, and principal branch, he says, runs 
through Africa, and disembogues on the coast of Adel, 
near Burburreea.^ 

The town of Gunnanee, on the right bank of the 
Govinda, is about four weeks' journey from Brava ; its in- 
habitants are Soomallies, and it is composed of about 300 
huts. Surat cloths are taken to it from the coast, and ex- 

* The Kufigi, Lufigi, or Lufiji. 

^ A popular error. The nearest river south of Kihva would be the 
Lindi, a little known streaman S. lat. 10°. 

^ This is the Nile of Magadoxo, which he has ignored. 

* Webbe in Somali means any stream. 

5 The well-known settlement Berberah. The intelligent Somali 
evidently believed that the Hawash river and the Nile of Magadoxo 
are of the same origin. 



510 



APPENDIX III, 



clianged for slaves, elephants' teetli, &c. There is another 
considerable village called Leeween, on the left of the 
Govinda, some distance inland from that stream, inhabited 
by negroes of no professed religion. The Eesoomadoo 
Galla, a race of cannibals, the Oombaney, Howwahsow, 
and Arrooseeya Galla tribes, intermixed with Soomallies, 
inhabit the banks of the Dahawa, nearest the sea-coast ; 
they do not cultivate the ground, but subsist on meat, 
milk, and herbs. The Guracha * Galla inhabit the interior 
south of the line, and the Borran ^ Galla north of the line ; 
their language is nearly similar ; they are represented to 
be cannibals and cruel thieves. The inhabitants opposite 
Zanzibar are Wuddooa ^ negroes, but there is reason to 
believe this part of the coast was formerly inhabited by 
the Guracha Galhi, or, as my instructions style them, the 
Giagas.^ The Soomallies inhabit the sea-coast from the 
equator north round Cape Guardafui to Burburreea and 
Zeylah ; their possessions extend some distance inland. 
The Souallies, on the contrary, arc confined close to the 
sea-coast, and inhabit that part of it from the line south 
to about Cape Delgado, tribes of Caffres occasionally in- 
tervening, particularly to the southward of Zanzibar. The 
various tribes of negroes brought to this port for sale are 
too numerous to describe ; the principal arc the Mee- 
amaizees,^ whose country, at tlirce months' distance, 
abounds in elephants' teeth, and some gold is found there. 

The Muckwa," whose country is two months' journey 
distant from the sea-coast. 

' Now generally written Kurachi or Kurachasi, as tlio Arrooseeya are 
the Arusi tribe. ^ Or Boreu. '' The AVadoe tribe. 

? This is, indeed, a wild confusion. ' The Wunyaiuwezi. 

• Tlic Wamakua, near Kilwa. 



APPENDIX III. 



511 



The Meeyahoo ^ is fifty days' journey ofi* tlie Gooroo ^ 
— is fifteen daj^s inland. 

The Dohai,^ ten days from the coast, are cannibals. 

The Meegeendoo * are situated one months' journey 
from the sea-port of Quiloa. 

The Jiggua/ four days, and the Moozumbarree,^ three 
days, &c. The interior is represented as a most fertile 
country, abounding in cattle and elephants. 

I have not been able to gather any satisfactory inform- 
ation regarding the Eiver Zambesie, its course, the town 
of Sofala, character of its natives, or description of the 
surrounding country. The Christian States of Yufat and 
Shoa on the confines of Abyssinia, with the large towns of 
Tombuctoo, Cashna, and Hoossayee, said to be in the 
interior of Africa or Ethiopia, under the government of 
Mussulman princes, together with the circumstances rela- 
tive to the triennial voyages of Solomon's fleet, from the 
Eslantic Gulf to Ophir, are unknown to the inhabitants 
of this place; nor have I yet met with one who could 
afibrd me any satisfactory accounts of the River JYiger, or 
Joliba, or the Nile of Soudan, or South Africa. 

I have made lists of the Souallie, Soomallie, and 
Galla dialects, and shall add such others as I moj be able 
to collect. 

The coast from Cape Guardafui to Magadosho is arid 
' The Wahiao, S.E. of the Nyassa Lake. 

^ The Wanguru of Southern Unyamwezi, or of the eastern ghauts, 
opposite Zanzibar. The text is here corrupt. 

^ This appears to be a corruption of Wadoe, called in p. 510 
Wuddooa. 

* The Wangindo tribe on the road from Kilwa to the Nyassa Lake. 

^ The tribes of the Chaga Highland. 

® The hill-men of Usumbara. Elanitic. 



512 



APPENDIX III. 



and sterile ; not a hut or a boat was to be seen, although 
the sea-shore abounds with fish. From the latter place 
the land improves, and on the line it becomes completely 
woody, and so continues far to the southward. 

The trade of this coast is chiefly in the hands of the 
Arabs from Muscat, MacuUa, &c., and a few adventurers 
from Cutch and the coast of Scinde. The principal im- 
ports at Zanzibar are Surat cloths, to the amount of about 
12 lacs of rupees annually, besides beads, cotton, sugar, 
ghee, fish, dates, and grain, and about 200 candies of iron 
bar, which is partly distributed for use along the coast. 
English woollens are in no demand, consequently not im- 
jKjrtcd. The exports are slaves, elephants* teeth, raw 
dammcr,' rhinoceros' hides and horns, cowries, wax, turtle 
shells, coir, cocoa-nuts, &c. The duties collected licre on 
merchandise are said to amount to about one and a lialf 
lacs of dollars annually ; but as imposition and extortion 
are occasionally resorted to, they may be considerably 
more. The Imaum of Muscat receives from hence a clear 
sum of 00,000 dollars, and yearly makes an additional l('vy 
on various pretexts. The following is a list of trading 
vessels at Zanzibar at the end of March, LSll. Two 
ships, two snows, three ketches, 21 dows, 10 buglas, four 
dingeys, 10 small boats of sizes, besides a variety of 
country boats constantly arriving and departing, and two 
lai ge boats building. Some seasons upwards of 100 large 
dows, i^c, have been known to arrive at this port from 
Arabia and India, but its trade appears on the decline, 
while that of the ports of Mombas and Lamoo belonging 
to independent Arab chiefs is annually inipioving. 



' Possibly copal. 



APPENDIX III. 



513 



altlioug-li as harbours tliey do not possess near tlie ad- 
vantages tliat Zanzibar does. 

The dress of the people in general is a coloured 
wrapper round their loins. The better sort have, in addi- 
tion, a loose white cloth over their shoulders, and round 
their bod}^ The Arabs wear turbans, while the Souallies, 
Sooraallies, and negroes go bareheaded. 

The port of Patta, in lat. 2« 8' S., has little or no trade 
on account of the intricacy of its harbours and the ne- 
farious conduct of its inhabitants. It would appear the 
Surat traders are subject to much imposition and ex- 
tortion at Zanzibar, as the Hakim, over and above the 
usual duties of 5 per cent., seizes such part of their cargoes 
as he fancies ; and the maquedahs ^ of the three vessels 
now here have declared to me that, in collecting the 
duties on Surat goods imported, he is not guided by any 
invoice prices, but fixes a valuation on them far below the 
prime cost from the hands of the manufacturer ; and as 
he (the Hakim) pays himself in kind, takes good care to 
detain for his own use such articles as are most saleable at 
the time, by which means the merchant pays on an average 
15 per cent., and sometimes more, beyond the established 
rates fixed by the Imaum of Muscat. 

(Signed) Thomas Smee, Commander. 

On Board the H. C.'s ship Ternate, 
Zanzibar Harbour, 6th April, 1811. 

^ Nakliudas, native skippers. 



VOL. II. 



33 



514 



XOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 

BY CAPT. SMEE AND LIEUT. HA-RDY. 

Note 1 (p. 4G0). Socotra, or Socotora, 80 well known for the 
production of the drug aloes, is ia most charts, except Hors- 
burgh's, laid down too far to the westward. It bears E. by N. of 
Cape Guardafui 1138 miles, the latter being in long 51° 13' E., 
and the western extremity of Socotra in long. 53" 20' and lat. 
12" 24' N. It has several good harbours and anchoring-])laces, 
the best of which is said to be Tivce, on the N. E. side of the 
Island, where water is easily procured. Between it and Cape 
Guardafui are situated the Isles of Sumhaa and Duraga, or, as 
we name them, the Brothers and Adulcnsin, all of which are 
also placed too much to the westward in the charts. The last- 
mentioned island is said to afford plenty of excellent fresh 
water. It is inhabited by Arabs, who are subject to the chief 
of Socotra. Socotra is governed by an Arab Sheik. The 
produce of the island being insufllcient to support the popula- 
tion, the ports of Arabia furnish it with grain, &c., &c. I be- 
lieve that aloes, fish, and salt are the only articles it produces. 
The inhabitants are chiefly Arabs. 

Note 2 (p. 4GG). Since the 25th we had been steering 
along that part of the African Continent known to the English 
by the name of Agan.^ It is in general a low even coast, and 

' Azrin, Azania, properly Barr el Khnzain, the Land of Tanks, which 
begins at Ifa'ns Ilafun (N. lat. 10° 2iV 8") and ends at lUi'us el Khayl (N. 
I^t. 7" 40' 30"), about IGO miles in length. 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



515 



is justly represented as desert and barren. In passing along 
it some natives were seen tending a few cattle on the shore, 
but there is reason to believe, from the apparent extreme 
infertility of the sand, that the number of inhabitants can be 
but very small ; ^ even the sea-shore, where the abundance of 
fish would render the means of subsistence so easy to be 
attained, seemed totally neglected ; not a hut or boat of any 
kind was to be seen throughout its whole extent — a strong 
proof of the thinness of the population, and of the country 
near the coast being destitute of the material requisite for 
constructing these necessaries. The few inhabitants probably 
belong to the Saumalie tribe, whose limits of residence are said 
to extend to the line. We did not remark any inlets or traces 
of rivers on this coast. 

Xote 3 (p. 467). A little north of Cape Bassas is a hill, or 
long ridge, of an uncommon red colour, and along the land from 
it to the Cape itself are a number of white sand hillocks which 
form excellent marks to vessels approaching it from the north- 
ward and eastward. 

Note 4 (p. 468). From the information afterwards 
received the Doara seems to be an inconsiderable stream. 

Note 5 (p. 470). We afterwards discovered these to be 
really islands, and the commencement of the chain which 
extends beyond Patta. 

Note 6 (p. 471). The opinion upon which the existence of 
this supposed river rests is founded on certain accounts 
transmitted some time ago to the Governor of Bombay by the 
late Captain David Seton, the Company's resident at Muscat. 

* The inhabitants hide themselves from strangers. In the interior 
they are tolerably numerous. Being Somal, they will not eat tish or fowl, 
as 1 have explained in my First Footsteps in East Africa. 

2 It is the ' Nile of Makdishu,' supposed to issue from the lake Kaura. 
Of late years it has been called Webbe River) Gamana or Webbe 
Giredi, aud by Lieut. Christopher, the ' Haines River.' According to 
others, it rises about N. lat. i)" to 10° at a place called Deuok, wheuce 
also one of its multitudinous names. 



516 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



This communication states the information to have been ob- 
tained from some people of respectability in that place, who were 
well acquainted with the part of the African coast in question. 
The substance of this detail is as follows : — ' That a river of im- 
mense extent, known to the natives in its neighbourhood by 
the appellation of the Neelo (Nilo), and said to have its 
source in common with the Egyptian river of that name, dis- 
charges itself in the Indian Ocean, in about 0'' G' N. lat. ; near 
to its mouth it is called Govind Khala. That the length of 
its course is about three months' journey ; and nine weeks' 
journey from tlie mouth stands a large city named Gunamma,' 
np to which, the river being navigable, immense quantities of 
slaves, elephants' teeth, &c., are brouglit down within a short 
distance of Brava, to which (the river then taking a more 
southerly direction) these articles of niercliandise are after- 
wards carried overland, and either disposed of there, or sent to 
Zanzibar.' This story, though sufficiently plausible, would of 
itself, considering the known credulity and extreme propensity 
to exaggeration prevalent among the natives of tlie East, be 
entitled to very little regard did it not happen to receive some 
countenance from Herodotus, the Grecian historian, who says 
that when in Egypt he was told tliat a branch of the Nile 
bearing the same name took an easterly course, and was sup- 
posed to fall into the Indian Ocean, somewhere on the coast of 
East Africa.^ These taken together were strong, but still left 
ample room to believe that the river called by the Portu- 
guese Dos Fuegos, and known to us by the name of the Eogucs 

' Gnnana in Somalilniid : it cnnnot l»e a ]nrp;e ci(y. Here we iimy 
observe tlie Coviiid (Gull»-\vtii). alia.s tlie Julia liiver, upon whose riglit 
bank Ganana lies, is ( onlouiided willi tlie ' Kile of Ma/iJidoxo,' and the 
eastern branch of the latter, called Webbe Guniana, has added to the 
confusion. 

This may be the case if for Nile we read * P.lue Kiver.' The Webbo 
CJamana, alias Nile of Makdisbu, may, like the Welbe Ganana or Juba, 
rise in the S. Eastern counkr-slcpe of the Abyssinian Highlands, which 
discharge to the N. West the liahr el Azrak. 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



517 



Kiver, ^Yhich disembogues itself in 0° 17' S. lat., might even- 
tually turn out to be the same with this African IS'ile,^ — 22 
miles the diflerence between their supposed mouths, being an 
error which people such as those of Muscat, unaccustomed to 
make accurate observations, may easily be supposed to fall 
into. It may here be seen that the truth of this surmise 
respecting the identity of the two rivers has been clearly 
established, though it will hereafter appear, from the informa- 
tion received at Patta, that the source of this river, viz. Dos 
Tuegos, will still be found to agree with and authenticate the 
reports and conjectures derived from the above authority, — and 
at all events cannot fail to render it an object of interest and 
curiosity to the civilized world in general. 

Note 7 (p. 474). Or rather to the island on w^hich Patta 
and Sieull stand', called Peer Patta. 

Note 8 (p. 474). This town is by the natives called Humoo. 

iS'ote 9 (p. 476). Amounting in value to better than 
Es 300. 

Xote 10 (p. 479). His cousin was at this moment held in 
confinement in a dungeon close to the residence of this cruel 
and usurping relation, for it seems Ben Baueeci had a prior 
claim to the Sultanship. 

IS'ote 11 (p. 481). The people of Patta (besides their civil dis- 
sensions) were at this time at war with Lamo, an island a few 
miles to the southward, whose boats were continually on the 
look-out to attack those of Patta. The Sooltan made this also 
a motive for detaining us under the pretence of preparing an 
armed boat to conduct us back to the ship ; but we saw through 
his civility, and evaded it by telling him we had arms, and could 
defend ourselves. Patta has no trade at present ; it used 
formerly to be resorted to for cowries (a small shell current as 
money in Bengal), but of late years this trade has been discon- 
tinued. 

' This, again, is the Juba, Webbe Ganana, or Goviiid River, whose 
bar is in S. lat. 0° 14' oO", or, accordiDg to others, iu 0° U' h". 



518 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



Xote 12 (p. 484). Within this buy on the S.AV. side stood 
the ancient city of Melinda, the site of which, in crossinf? 
the mouth of the bay, we were at too great a distance to 
see. 

Note 13 (p. 485). These must, therefore, have been the 
rocks mentioned by Captain Bissel in liis memoir on which 
the Leopard, Admiral Blaukett's flag-ship, struck (Feb. 15, 
1799, on a voyage to the lied Sea), when bearing up to 
Zanzibar after a fruitless attempt to beat up tliis coast during 
the N.E. monsoon. The mosque, however, or pagoda, as lie 
calls it, is by no means a good sea-mark, as no ship ought to 
go so close as to make it sufficiently conspicuous. A imuch 
better are two hills to tlie X.W. ; they are considerably 
higher than any near them, and, in consequence, easily known. 
The two hills are close together, and only partially divided by 
a shallow notch resembling a woman's breast in form. 

Note 14 (p. 4SG). The Kiver Quililfa is in S. lat. 3° 2(5', 
and in long, (by means of several good observations) 39° 2G' E. 

Note 15 (p. 488). The Expedition sailed from Bombay on 
the 2nd January, 1811. 

{ \ Note 10 (p. 488). There is also a group at the east end of 
the island. 

Note 17 (p. 489). The only one of this group of islands 
that has no wood on it. 

Note 18 (p. 491). This tree is by the natives of Ilindostan 
called Brosh, and bears a large oval fruit with a smooth skin, 
but neitlier it nor the wood of tlie tree is of any use. (Editor's 
note: the best is now worth £14 to £15 per ton.) 

Note 19 (p. 491). Variation 8'^ W. 

Note 20 (p. 493). Cocoa-nuts (of winch the island prr»- 
duces vast quantities) are also exported to Malabar, and also 
wax and tortoise-sliell. 

Note 21 (p. 493). Dried salted shark and other fish, and 
ghee, are brouglit iu considerable quantities from Socotra ; 



NOTES TO APPENDIX III. 



519 



likewise chinaware, earthen jars, and toys and ornaments from 
Surat. 

Note 22 (p. 49G). I do not give this as information to be 
depended on. 

Note 23 (p. 497). The Galla are in their persons exactly 
similar to the west-coast negroes. 

Note 24 (p. 499). The sugar-cane grows in great plenty, 
but the inhabitants are ignorant of the art of making sugar. 

Note 25 (p. 500). Monkeys are also found on the island, 
with foxes and wild hogs, &c. 

Note 26 (p. 500). Eice and ghee can be procured in con- 
siderable quantities, but it will be found expensive for strangers 
to provide any great supply of those articles. 

Note 27 (p. 502). This, I think, must be an error. Five 
thousand is more' probable, — the person who gave me the in- 
formation being rather given to exaggeration. 

Note 28 (p. 508). No revenue collected by the Imaum. 

Note 29 (p. 508). Ibid. 

Note 30 (p. 508). Camels numerous, at about 5 dollars 
each. 



THE END. 



4 



JOHN CH1LD8 AND BOX, PBINTERS. 



Date Due 







