About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/nurserytalestrad00call_0

--------------------------------------

NURSERY TALES,

TRADITIONS, AND HISTORIES 

OF THE 

ZULUS, 

IN THEIR OWN WORDS, 

WITH

A TRANSLATION INTO ENGLISH, 

AND NOTES. 

BY 

THE REV. CANON CALLAWAY, M.D. 

VOL. I



NATAL : 

JOHN A. BLAIR, SPRINGVALE ; 

DAVIS AND SONS, PIETERMARITZBURG. 

LONDON : 

TRÜBNER AND CO., 60, PATERNOSTER ROW. 


1868. 



NATAL 


PRINTED AT SPRINGY ALE MISSION STATION. 


PREFACE TO THE FIRST VOLUME. 


On completing this First Volume of Zulu Native Literature, — if we 
may be allowed to apply such a term to that which has hitherto been 
stored only in the mind and imparted to others orally, — I feel there is 
something due to the Reader and to myself. 

When the First Part was issued in May, 1866, I had no idea 
what the First Volume would be ; much less, when I wrote the Pre- 
face to Part I. in the preceding January. I had collected a certain 
amount of material from natives ; enough to make me feel that it was 
worth printing, even though at the same time I felt sure that it was, 
for the most part, very fragmentary, and to be regarded rather as a 
help to others to collect fuller and more perfect materials, than as 
being' complete in itself. But I had no idea how really poor compara- 
tively the materials I then possessed were ; or how abundant a store 
of Popular Tales might be found among the Natives of Natal. The 
issue of the First Part aroused a spirit of enthusiasm among the 
natives of the village who were able to read, and several came and 
offered themselves as being capable of telling me something better 
than I had printed. From this source of information thus voluntarily 
tendered I have obtained by far the best part of the contents of this 
Volume, — the tale of Ukcombekcansini, which one of my reviewers 
describes as being " as beautiful and graceful as a classic idyll," — Um- 
badhlanyana and the Cannibal, — The Appendix on Cannibalism, — 
U gungyu-kubant wana and the Appendices which follow, — U mkcca- 
kaza-wakoginggwayo, — The Two Brothers, — TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
— The Appendices to Umdhlubu and the Frog, — Unthlangunthlangu 
and the Appendices which follow, — Untombi-yapansi, — Umamba, — 
Unanana-bosele, — The wise Son of the King, and some of the smaller 
pieces with which the Volume is ended. 

Thus the Work has to a great extent been collected, translated, 
and arranged whilst passing through the press. This must be my 
apology for the many imperfections which will be found in it ; the 
absence of order, and occasional repetitions. I have been feeling my 
way all along ; and have discovered that there exists among the people 
a vast store of interesting traditional tales, which may yet be col- 
lected ; and it is possible that I have only just learnt the way of col- 
lecting them. I have already several of considerable interest, which 
wiU appear, it is supposed, in a Second Volume. 

I must here state that I regard the Work in its present form as 


The Students' Edition : the student whether of the Zulu language, 
or of Comparative Folk-lore. There are therefore some things retained 
in it which are not fit for the public generally ; but which could not 
for the student be properly suppressed. The very value of such a 
work depends on the fidelity with which all is told. To be a trust- 
worthy exposition of the native mind it must exhibit every side of it. 
I have felt what so many other collectors of such legends among other 
people have felt before me, that I have had a trust committed to me, 
and that I can only faithfully execute it by laying every thing before 
others. 

But it would be quite easy to prepare a Popular Edition, 
which with a few alterations in the tales, and a condensation and 
modification of the phraseology, might become an interesting and not 
uninstructive book for the people generally and especially for the 
young, with whom it would become as cherished a favourite as any 
which is found in nursery literature. 

And now for the worth of the Work itself. Those 

" Who love a nation's legends, 

Love the ballads of the people," 

will not look upon it as a mere collection of children's tales. They 
will not banish these legends to the nursery ; but will hear them, 

" like voices from a distance 
Call to us to pause and listen." 

To such as these every thing human is valuable. The least incident 
which can throw light on the nature and history of man, especially 
his nature as he was in the now hoary past ; and his history, as he has 
been moving upwards in an ever progressing development, or sinking 
lower and lower in an ever increasing degradation, becomes a treasured 
fact to be placed among that ever accumulating mass of materials from 
which hereafter a faithful record of man as he was in the past, and of 
the causes which have influenced him, and the varying states through 
which he has passed to the present, shall be compiled. Regarded 
from such a point of view, these simple children's tales are the history 
of a people's mind in one phase of its existence. The tales of olden 
times collected from the people by Grimm, or Thorpe, or Campbell, or 
Dasent, are of a very different character, and speak of a very different 
society from that which takes so much pleasure in the compositions of 
Hans Christian Andersen. 

We know not yet what shall be the result of such collections of 
children's tales. Children's tales now ; but not the invention of a 
child's intellect ; nor all invented to gratify a child's fancy. If care- 
fully studied and compared with corresponding legends among other 
people, they will bring out unexpected relationships , 1 which will more 
and more force upon us the great truth, that man has every where 

1 An ingenuity similar to that which the Rev. G. W. Cox has exercised on 
the ancient literature of Greece, would readily convert many of these tales into 
Solar Myths , and thus connect the Greek with the Zulu, or both with a period 
anterior to either of them. 


thought alike, because every where, in every country and clime, under 
every tint of skin, under every varying social and intellectual con- 
dition, he is still man, — one in all the essentials of man, — one in that 
which is a stronger proof of essential unity, than mere external dif- 
ferences are of difference of nature, — one in his mental qualities, ten- 
dencies, emotions, passions. 

Elizabeth Cookson has remarked in her Introduction to the 
Legends of Manx Land : — 

" What Fossil Remains are to the Geologist, Customs and Creeds 
are to the Historian — landmarks of the extent and progress of intel- 
ligence and civilization. 

" Popular Tales, Songs, and Superstitions are not altogether pro- 
fitless ; like the fingers of the clock, they point to the time of day. 
Turns and modes of thought, that else had set in darkness, are by 
them preserved, and reflected, even as objects sunk below the horizon 
are, occasionally, brought again into view by atmospheric reflection. 

" Fables are facts in as far as they mirror the minds of our less 
scientific Ancestors. 

" That man should have solemnly believed in the existence of 
Fairies, Spectres, and every variety of Superstition, but testifies the 
vivid impression physical and mental phenomena made upon his mind. 
Placed in a world of marvels, he questioned the marvellous — ques- 
tioned until Dark Diviners, Interpreters, arose — bewildered and be- 
wildering, yet striving after the light — striving to solve the enigma of 
Life, — striving to fling from the soul the burden of an unexplained 
existence." 

In reflecting on the tales of the Zulus the belief has been irre- 
sistibly fixed upon my mind, that they point out very clearly that the 
Zulus are a degenerated people ; that they are not now in the con- 
dition intellectually or physically in which they were during "the 
legend-producing period " of their existence ; but have sunk from a 
higher state. Like the discovered relics of giant buildings in Asia 
and America, they appear to speak of a mightier and better past, 
which, it may be, is lost for ever. But though by themselves they 
may be powerless to retrace the footsteps of successive generations, yet 
is it unreasonable to suppose that under the power of influences which 
may reach them from without, they are not incapable of regeneration ? 
Far otherwise. For it appears to me that this Zulu legendary lore 
contains evidence of intellectual powers not to be despised ; whilst we 
have scattered every where throughout the tales those evidences of 
tender feeling, gentleness, and love, which should teach us that in 
dealing with these people, if we are dealing with savages, we are deal- 
ing with savage men , who only need culture to have developed in them 
the finest traits of our human nature. 

And it is in bestowing upon us the means of bringing this cul- 
ture to bear upon them, that we may see the chief practical use of this 
collection. We cannot reach any people without knowing their minds 
and mode of thought ; we cannot know these without a thorough 
knowledge of their language, such as cannot be attained by a loose 


colloquial study of it. What Sir George Grey felt was requisite for 
the rightful government of the people of New Zealand, — not only a 
thorough knowledge of their language, but also of their traditional 
lore, — -the earnest and intelligent missionary will feel in a tenfold de- 
gree as necessary for himself, who has to deal with questions which 
require a much nicer and more subtle use of words than any thing 
affecting man in his mere external relations. For myself I must say 
that scarcely a day passes in which I do not find the value of such 
knowledge. Whilst the lighter study of these children's tales has pre- 
pared me to handle with a firmer and more assured grasp the graver 
task ol translating the Bible and Prayer Book into the native tongue. 

I would take this opportunity of telling such readers as are in- 
terested in the Work, that the means at my disposal are very inade- 
quate for the easy or rapid completion of all I have in hand. We 
calculate that at our present rate of proceeding it would take little 
less than ten years to print the materials already collected. And I 
would earnestly ask their assistance in some practical manner. This 
may be rendered in various ways : — By increasing the circulation of 
the Work ; it has reached about four hundred copies, quite as large, 
I admit, as might have been anticipated, but quite insufficient to cover 
expenses ; or by aiding to raise for the Work a special printing fund. 
The loan or gift of books on kindred subjects would also be a great 
assistance. 

I must now for some time take leave of the reader. I purpose at 
once to commit to the press the part of the Work on the Zulu notion 
of the Origin of Things, — in other words, what I have been able to 
collect of their traditional religion. It is already prepared for the 
press ; but it is very undesirable to issue it in parts ; it must be read 
as a whole, carefully and thoughtfully, in order to form any just con- 
clusion as to its real meaning. It will probably be about one hundred 
and twenty pages, unless it should swell under my hands, as have the 
Nursery Tales. 

I would now, in conclusion, take this opportunity for heartily 
thanking those friends who have interested themselves in the Work, 
and expressing my obligations especially to Mr. John Sanderson for 
the much valuable assistance he has rendered me. 

HENRY CALLAWAY. 

Springvale , Natal , 

March , 1868. 


PREFACE 


Twelve years ago, when I commenced the study of Zulu, with the exception of 
a short, hut valuable, paper by Mr. J. C. Bryant, on "The Zulu Language 
and another by Mr. Lewis Grout on ' ' The Zulu and other Dialects of Southern 
Africa," in the First Volume of The Journal of the American Oriental Society , 
there was not a publication to which a student could refer for a knowledge of 
the rudiments of the language. In the Kxosa dialect, indeed, there were the 
Grammars of Appleyard and Boyce ; and the small Vocabulary of Ayliff. But 
these were of little use to one engaged in the study of Zulu, and tended rather 
to confuse than to help. I was therefore, from the first, thrown on such 
resources as I could myself develop. 

At a very early period I began to write at the dictation of Zulu natives, as 
one means of gaining an accurate knowledge of words and idioms. In common 
conversation the native naturally condescends to the ignorance of the foreigner, 
whom, judging from what he generally hears from colonists, he thinks unable 
to speak the language of the Zulu : he is also pleased to parade his own little 
knowledge of broken English and Dutch ; and thus there is a danger of picking 
up a miserable gibberish, composed of anglicised Kafir, and kafirised English 
and Dutch words, thrown together without any rule but the caprice and igno- 
rance of the speaker. But whilst such a compound might answer for the common 
relations between whitemen and natives, yet it must be wholly insufficient to 
admit of any close communication of mind with mind, and quite inadequate to 
meet the requirements of scientific investigation. 

Very different is the result of writing at the dictation of a native. The 
first impression immediately produced is of the vast difference between the best 
translations and the language as spoken by natives. A native is requested to 
tell a tale ; and to tell it exactly as he would tell it to a child or a friend ; and 
what he says is faithfully written down. We have thus placed before us the 
language as nearly as possible such as it is spoken by the natives in their inter- 
course with each other. And, further, what has been thus written can be read 
to the native who dictated it ; corrections be made ; explanations be obtained ; 
doubtful points be submitted to other natives ; and it can be subjected to any 
amount of analysis the writer may think fit to make. 

Such is the history of the mode in which the original Zulu, here presented 
to the public, has been obtained. Very many different natives have taken part 
in the work. There will be, therefore, found here and there, throughout, per- 
sonal and dialectic peculiarities ; but for the most part the language is pure 
Zulu. It was clearly no part of the work of the collector to make any change 
in the language with a view of reducing it to one imagined standard of purity. 

The materials, which at first I sought to collect merely for my own instruc- 
tion, gradually accumulated. As my ear became more educated, and the natives 
more intelligent, and able to comprehend the object I had in view, I could write 
with greater facility, until at length there was no subject on which I could not 
obtain the most accurate information possessed by the natives themselves. 

Thus, as the materials increased they began to have another and somewhat 




11 


PREFACE. 


different value ; they became not merely a means of learning the Zulu language, 
but also a means of obtaining a knowledge of Kafir customs, histories, mode of 
thought, religion, &c. And what was commenced as a mere exercise-lesson w as 
soon pursued with the further object of discovering; what was the character of 
the mind of the people with whom we are brought into contact ; and of endea- 
vouring to trace out their connection with other nations by the similarity which 
might exist in their traditions and myths, their nursery tales and proverbs. 

The result of this investigation has been quite beyond my own most san- 
guine expectation ; and it is probable that very much remains to be added which 
may help us in many ways to understand the past history of the Zulus, and to 
connect them with other people. 

For some time it has appeared to me hardly right to allow so vast a mass of 
materials, full of interest to the missionary, the philologist, the ethnologist, and 
antiquarian, as well as to a large portion of the general public, to remain on my 
shelves, useful to myself alone, or to some few friends who might see it in MSS. 
Others whom I consulted were of the same opinion ; and after much considera- 
tion, and overcoming many difficulties, I have at length entered on the task of 
preparing it for the press. 

At first I intended to print the Kafir only with a few explanatory notes. 
But so many have expressed the opinion that a Zulu book would have but few 
attractions, and a very limited sphere of usefulness, that I have, at the moment 
of going to press, concluded to print, side by side with the original Zulu, a 
translation. It will thus become available both to English and Kafir scholars, 
and can be used as a class-book to teach the English Zulu, or the Zulus English. 

The translation, without being absolutely literal, wall be found to be a true 
representation of the original. An absolutely literal translation, on the Hamil- 
tonian system, would be almost as unintelligible, to a person unacquainted with 
the language, as the original Zulu itself. My object has been to give idiom for 
idiom rather than word for word, and at the same time to preserve, as far as 
possible, the characteristic peculiarities of the original. Hence the translation 
will necessarily present a quaint and somewhat unenglish character, which will 
not, however, be urged against it as an objection. 

Whilst on the subject of translation, it may be as well to remark that 
among the natives, as among all uncultivated people, there is great freedom of 
speech used in allusion to the relations between the sexes, &c. Whenever I 
could soften down such expressions, to suit our own more refined taste, I have 
done so. But, perhaps, there will still be found instances of what some may 
regard as too great outspokenness. I would, however, deprecate the thought 
that such outspokenness is to be construed into an evidence of a want of purity 
among the natives, or that our reticence on such subjects is a proof of purity in 
ourselves. 

Writing and Spelling. — The principles which have guided me in writing and 
spelling claim a few remarks in this place. 

There are two modes of writing — one adopted by Dr. Colenso and Dr. 
Bleek, in which a number of small words is run together ; and the other, that 
adopted by the American missionaries and others, in which there is, perhaps, 
the opposite mistake of unnecessary division. 

As regards the first, I am quite unable to see anything to recommend it, or 
even to conceive the reason of its adoption. Why should we write ngdbebdbopa , 
' ' they ought to bind them ; " and not nga be ba bopa , ' ' ought they them bind ? " 
Why should we run the Zulu words together, when we write the English ones 
apart ? How strange it would appear, and how difficult it would be to understand, 
a sentence of this kind, written in English as one word, Theyoughttobindthem ! 
But it is not less difficult or strange in Zulu than in English ; and tends, as it 
would, indeed more than it would, in English, to produce confusion and 
obscurity. A person thoroughly acquainted with the language gets over the 
obscurity by means of the context, and has little difficulty in determining 
whether he is to understand ubuya as u V u ya y "you were going," or as u buy a, 
"you are coming back." So in the following sentence, Nembala ateti gulugudu 
ukungena, " so then he hastens inside ; " he may see at once that teti is not the 
negative form of teta t to "chide:" but it requires a ready knowledge of the 


PREFACE. 


Ill 


language to separate a sentence so written into its elementary words, and catch 
at once the meaning of a t e ti in ateti. One could multiply instances ad infi- 
nitum of the confusion which arises from writing by sentences instead of words. 

Who that has ever attempted to decipher old manuscripts, in which the 
words are all run together, has not felt a wish that the writers had adopted the 
modern system of writing each word by itself ? The Cuneiform inscriptions 
appeared but as a mere " conglomerate of wedges " to those who first discovered 
them, about which a doubt might exist whether they were writings at all, or 
"mere arabesque or fanciful ornaments." In attempting to decipher these 
inscriptions a sign was discovered by which the words were separated ; on which 
Max Muller remarks : — " Such a sign is of course an immense help in all attempts 
at deciphering inscriptions, for it lays bare at once the terminations of hundreds 
of words." ( Lectures on the Science of Language. Second Series, p. 4. ) Being 
then practically acquainted with the difficulties and obscurities occasioned by 
the ancients having run their words together, why should we, in reducing a 
savage language to writing, introduce similar difficulties ? 

I need not say much on the system I have adopted of writing the words 
apart. It is substantially the same as is found in other Zulu and Kccosa works. 
But in some instances, where a sentence has become petrified, as it were, into a 
word, although its etymology is still evident, I have written it as one word, as 
ngani, not nga ni , "why ; " or kangaka, not ka nga ka, "so much." So, per- 
haps arbitrarily, I have written prepositions with the nouns they govern as one 
word, regarding the combination as a case of the noun, as kuye, not ku ye ; 
nami, not na mi. By doing so I jump over, rather than solve, some questions 
which arise as to the proper method of writing certain words, as kwlti, bakwetu. 

Again, I do not separate what is called the possessive particle from the 
noun. In most instances they are necessarily blended, forming the possessive 
case. It therefore appears consistent to write them together under all circum- 
stances ; and as we have umntwana wenkosi (wa-inkosi), "the child of the 
chief," I also write umntwana kampande, "the child of Umpande :" that is, I 
regard kampande as the genitive of Umpande, just as wenkosi is the genitive of 
inkosi. I also write umuntu waselovo, umuntu wakwazulu ; and not wa s'elovo , 
wa kwa Zulu ; regarding these as genitive cases, and examples of the mode in 
which the genitive of places is formed. 

A difficulty, too, has been felt as regards the capital letters ; and we find 
consequently in printed books some ugly anomalies, such as a capital in the 
middle of a word, and paragraphs beginning with a small letter. This has 
arisen apparently, in part, from the error of not regarding the prefix as an essen- 
tial part of a noun, and so giving the nominal root an undue prominence ; and, 
in part, from our not being accustomed to those initial changes upon which 
grammatical inflection so much depends in the Zulu language. But to use the 
capital letters to distinguish nominal roots is a novelty in writing ; and it 
appears to have been overlooked that when, as a mark of eminence, the capital 
is placed at the beginning of the root in such words as nKosi, "Lord," Kosi has 
no personal meaning, indeed, no meaning whatever ; and that therefore the mark 
of eminence is thrown away on a meaningless combination of letters, which can 
only assume a living sense by having combined with it the requisite prefix. 
These nominal roots doubtless had, originally, determinate meanings well 
understood ; but the prefix was always necessary to specialise the fundamental 
root-meaning. 

I have, therefore, very much reduced the number of capital letters, and 
use them only to mark paragraphs, and proper names in the nominative case. 

The orthography of the language presents much greater difficulties. We 
profess to write it phonetically ; but then we are at once met by the objection 
that the same letters have a different phonetic value in different European lan- 
guages, and even in one and the same language. The desirability of a uniform 
orthography is very generally felt. But if it be ever attainable, we are as yet 
very far from the adoption of a " universal alphabet." The practical difficulties 
in the way of using that of Lepsius are insuperable, even if we were prepared 
to admit the soundness of all the principles on which it is founded. I have 
therefore departed as little as possible from the mode of spelling already in use ; 


IV 


PREFACE. 


for it appears better to continue for a time some things which are felt to be 
unsatisfactory, than to introduce new characters, according to one's private 
fancy, which may not be adopted by others, and which would only have the 
effect of removing to a greater distance the attainment of a uniform orthography. 
The system of Max Muller is more available for missionaries ; and mentioning 
only that I have, as far as possible, followed his principles, as laid down in his 
Survey of Languages, it will not be necessary to allude in detail to anything but 
the clicks, the aspirates, and the aspirated linguals. 

The Clicks. — It is generally supposed that the sounds called clicks are a 
modern intrusion into the alliterative class of languages, arising from intercourse 
with the Hottentots. Dr. Bleek remarks: — "The occurrence of clicks in the 
Kafir dialects decreases almost in proportion to their distance from the Hottentot 
border. Yet the most southern Tekeza dialects and the Se-suto have also (pro- 
bably through Kafir influence) become to a slight extent possessed of this 
remarkable phonetical element. " (Bleep's Comparative Grammar, p. 13.) Be 
this as it may, the natives scout the idea of having borrowed anything from the 
Hottentots. It is certain, however, that there are tribes speaking an alliterative 
language, the Amangarija and Ajawa on the Shire for instance, in which there 
are no clicks. And Kolben, whose observations were made early in the 
eighteenth century (his work was published in 1731), speaking of the natives of 
"Terra du Natal," says : — "There is nothing of the Hottentot stammering or 
clashing of the tongue in speaking among them." (The Present State of the 
Cape of Good Hope. Vol. I., p. 81. ) Whether other tribes have driven out 
these "non-clashing" people who then inhabited Natal, or whether the 
" clashing " has been introduced since, we have no data at present which would 
enable us to determine with certainty. The question may be some day solved 
by researches in the comparative philology of South African languages, so hap- 
pily begun by Dr. Bleek. The view that the clicks are not native to the 
alliterative languages is quite in accordance with the theory I have formed of 
their nature. 

Dr. Bleek remarks : — " There is this distinction between the Hottentot and 
Kafir clicks, namely, that the latter are only found in the place of other conso- 
nants, and are used like consonants at the beginning of syllables, whilst in the 
Hottentot a guttural explosive consonant (k, kh, or g), the faucal spirant h and 
the nasal n, can be immediately preceded by a click, and form together with it 
the initial element of the syllables." ( Bleek? s Comparative Grammar, p. 13. ) 

My own conclusions as to the clicks do not accord with the view here 
expressed. The clicks in Zulu are never heard without an accompanying con- 
sonantal sound. Thee, q, and x were adopted to represent " this remarkable 
phonetic element," simply because they were not needed for other purposes, in 
reducing the Zulu language to writing on phonetic principles. It is customary, 
in some instances, to write these letters alone, not only to represent the click, 
but at the same time the combined consonantal sound. But this is a merely 
arbitrary mode of writing ; for when there is not an accompanying consonant 
expressed, the c, q, and x are supposed to have an inherent k sound, and are to 
be pronounced accordingly. The consonantal sounds found with the clicks, and, 
with the exception of h already mentioned, expressed in writing, are g, k, and 
n ; the g may be nasalised, ng ; and it, as well as k and n, is often found in 
combination with w. Thus we have g, ng, ngw ; k, kw ; n, and nw, in com- 
bination with the clicking sound. 

A difference of opinion exists as to whether the click precedes or follows in 
pronunciation the associated consonantal sound. Lepsius (Standard Alphabet. 
Second Edition, p. 81 ) and Dr. Bleek (Comparative Grammar, p. 13 ) consider 
that the click precedes the consonantal sound, and that therefore the sign for 
the clicking should precede the associated consonant. Grout and Dohne, on the 
other hand, do not concur with this opinion, but write the click sign after the 
consonant. 

The true explanation of the clicking sounds appears to be, that they are 
impediments coming in the way of the free enunciation of the consonants with 
which they are combined, and which they modify. The organs of speech 
assume the position for uttering g, ng, ngw ; k, kiv ; n, or nw, and find a bar to 


PREFACE. 


V 


the utterance, which is leaped over, giving rise to the click sound ; and then 
the consonantal sound is uttered. If this view be correct, there is an unsuc- 
cessful, but quite perceptible, effort to pronounce the combined consonant before 
the click, but its full utterance takes place after it. In fact , the sound is one ; 
and it is immaterial whether the click sign precedes or follows the consonant 
with which it is associated. 

But what shall the click signs be ? 

As the click sounds are new sounds, for which our alphabet has not pro- 
vided, they seem to demand new signs, not found in that alphabet ; especially 
as c, q, and x, though not wanted in Zulu, are wanted when the Zulus are 
taught to read English or other languages. 

If the clicks are an intrusion into Zulu of a foreign origin, and the sounds 
be a mere modification of previously existing consonantal sounds, it would 
appear that the best way of indicating them would be by a diacritic mark 
written with the consonants thus modified. 

These two principles being laid down, it would not be difficult to determine 
a diacritic sign. The form of that sign is absolutely unimportant : it demands 
only that it should be distinct in print, and of easy adaptation to writing. If 
these two requisites are ensured, all that is required further is that writers 
generally should agree upon one sign. If we cannot yet have a uniform ortho- 
graphy in other respects, we ought to have no difficulty in determining what 
shall be the sign for a new sound, not provided for in any known alphabet. 

Mr. Lewis Grout has adopted Lepsius' characters for the clicks. And I 
would have willingly followed his example, but that the characters suggested by 
Lepsius do not present the two requisites above mentioned, distinctness in print, 
and easy adaptability to writing ; defects which, as it seems to me, must be 
fatal to their being generally used. Further, they do not provide for the con- 
sonantal sounds with which the clicks are pronounced. 

Whilst this subject was under my consideration, being desirous of carrying 
out the principles above alluded to, and at the same time very unwilling to 
introduce novelties on my own responsibility, I corresponded, through a friend, 
with Max Muller. He suggested the employment of k, t, and l, either with a 
dot under each, or to be printed in Italics in Homan type, and vice versa. 

To follow such a suggestion appears to me calculated to increase the present 
difficulties without any corresponding advantage : k, t, and l have already • in 
Zulu their known and acknowledged phonetic value : to introduce them as the 
signs of the click sounds, even though distinguished by being written as Italics, 
or with a diacritic dot, would be confusing. All that can be said, on the other 
side, is that k, t, and l dimly intimate the parts of the organs of speech where 
the several clicks are formed. 

I have therefore concluded, until something better can be determined, to 
continue to use c, q, and x, which are already used, which are well known to 
the natives, and which have no other phonetic value in the Zulu language. But 
in order to impress on the eye the fact that they are not letters but diacritic 
marks, I so far adopt Max Muller's suggestion, that I write them in Italics in 
Homan type, and vice versa. And as these letters, thus used as diacritic signs, 
have no inherent consonantal value, I always write the consonants before them 
with which they are combined in pronunciation. 

I should prefer diacritic marks written with g, k, and n. But having stated 
my own opinions, I leave the matter to the consideration of others, and would 
express the hope that before very long, on this subject at least, there may be a 
uniform orthography. 

The Aspirates. — There are at least four aspirates — the common aspirate h, 
a "lateral fricative," and two guttural fricatives. 

The aspirate h requires no remark ; the lateral fricative will be spoken of 
presently. 

The letter r, not being used in Zulu orthography (although the sound of r 
does actually occur in one onomatopoetic word, ukuti dri, " to whir "), has been 
used for the guttural fricative. It is absolutely necessary to cease to use r for 
this purpose ; for it is continually needed to express its own proper sound in 
the names of persons and places now being rapidly introduced into the Zulu 


VI 


PREFACE. 


language. There may be something said in favour of the Greek x, recommended 
by Lepsius, and adopted by Bleek and Grout. But I have preferred on the 
whole, at the suggestion of Max Muller, to use hh. We cannot use kh, because 
that will be required for the aspirated k, which is a wholly different sound from 
the guttural fricative. The guttural fricative in many Zulu words is inter- 
changeable with the simple h ; the double h, therefore, seems a very appropriate 
sign for the guttural fricative. 

The second guttural fricative is extremely difficult to pronounce ; and as I 
can only approximately pronounce it myself, I speak with some diffidence on 
the subject. It is the sound alluded to by Dr. Colenso in his Zulu Grammar , 
as a " sound peculiar to Zulu-Kafir, which may be pronounced either as a gut- 
tural from the bottom of the throat, or as a click in the ordinary way. Happily 
it occurs in only a very few words. ( Elementary Grammar of the Zulu-Kafir 
Language , p. 6 . ) The sound certainly does somewhat resemble an imperfect 
faucal click. But it is not a click. Dr. Colenso uses the italic x to represent it. 
Mr. Grout uses for this sound the Greek x with a diacritic mark (which Lepsius 
proposes for a different purpose). He describes it as "a peculiar, hard, rough 
guttural sound, which seems to be made by contracting the throat, and giving 
the breath a forcible expulsion, at the same time modifying the sound with a 
tremulous motion of the epiglottis." ( Grammar of the Zulu Language , p. 16 . ) 
Dr. Bleek, who apparently has not heard the sound pronounced, cads it a 
" faucal explosive ; " but acknowledges that he is " as yet at a loss regarding 
this sound," from the description of Colenso and Grout. (Comparative Gram- 
mar, p. n.j 

I should propose to call it the lateri- guttural fricative. Natives, and those 
who can pronounce it as the natives, have one idea of the mode in which the 
sound is produced : it is this, — the anterior portion of the tongue lies flat and 
relaxed in the mouth ; its base is curved upwards, so as to close the centre of 
the faucal region, and the breath is forcibly expelled on each side. It generally 
has a k sound with it ; and in many words is interchangeable with the guttural 
fricative. I shall therefore use for this sound the Italic hh in Homan type, and 
vice versd. When it is combined with a k sound, k will of course be written 
before hh. 

The Aspirated Linguals , or more properly the aspirated l. — This sound 
occurs under at least two forms, usually spelt by hi and dhl. The aspirate 
heard in either case is not the common aspirate h. Dr. Bleek says: — "The 
aspirated lingual hi sounds in Kafir as if the guttural fricative (like the German 
ch in " suchen ") was pronounced in combination with and at the same time as 
l." ( Comparative Grammar , p. 16. ^ The aspirate, however, is a lateral frica- 

tive, as stated by Lepsius, who compares the Zulu aspirated l (that is dhl ) with 
the Welsh 11. ( Standard Alphabet, pp. 172, 270, 272 . ) The sounds produced 

by the aspiration of l are difficult to pronounce, as is evident from the sounds 
which are uttered by colonists instead of the true native pronunciation, such as 
shla, or thla, the t being too much pronounced. To my own ear, the first aspi- 
rated l (hi J has always somewhat of a t sound more or less audible, especially 
where it follows a vowel, as in lahleka. But it is probable that the aspirated l 
occurs in three forms — simply aspirated, and preceded by th and dli ; the 
aspirate being not the common h, but a lateral fricative. I think it will help 
English readers to the pronunciation if they try to pronounce hi, as in lilala, as 
though the l were preceded by the th as heard in thigh, or, better still, the th as 
heard in breath. Lepsius, indeed, tells us that t must not be the basis of this 
sound. ( Standard Alphabet, p. 65 . ) And no doubt thigh can be pronounced, 
or a sound very like it, without a t, in the same way as hla. The dhl, as in 
dhlula, may be pronounced by supposing the l to be preceded by th as heard in 
thy, or better as in breathe. The difference of the sounds in thigh and thy, or in 
breath and breathe, appears to me very exactly to distinguish the difference 
between hi and dhl. And it may well admit of discussion whether we should 
not use thl and dhl for the aspirated l sounds as heard in Zulu ; for I feel sure 
that no one who has never heard the sound would be guided to anything like a 
correct pronunciation by the ordinary spelling, hi. In translations I have used 
thl. At the same time I would have it understood that the t must be as little 


PREFACE. 


Vll 


audible as possible. I do not think that k is ever heard in Zulu with the 
aspirated l, as it appears to be in other dialects of South Africa. ( B leek' 3 Com- 
parative Grammar , p. 16. ,1 As it appeared desirable to distinguish the lateral 
fricative from the common h, I have determined to use for this purpose the 
Italic h in Roman type, and vice versa : thus, /ilala, dMula ; h lala, dhlula. 
We shall thus have a uniformity and distinctness without any real change in 
the spe llin g, and without the introduction of new characters. The four aspi- 
rates, therefore, are thus written : — The common h, or faucal spirant, h ; the 
lateral fricative, only found with 1, h ; the guttural fricative, hh ; the lateri- 
guttural fricative, hh. 

It does not appear worth while to mark by any sign the long and short 
vowels, as the organs of speech seem naturally to use the short vowels in the 
proper place. Neither have those few instances in which u is pronounced as in 
French been distinguished by any diacritic mark. 

In conclusion, I would remind those who may read the following pages that 
* ' he who first undertakes to bring into form the scattered elements of any sub- 
ject can only accomplish his task imperfectly." No one will be more sensible of 
the many imperfections which mark my work than I am myself. If, however, 
the result of my labours be to lead others to a deeper study of the Kafir 
language, and so to a deeper knowledge of the Kafir people ; and by their own 
investigations to fill up the gaps which exist in many subjects here brought 
before them, I shall be satisfied. If others will continue and perfect what I 
have begun, I shall not have begun in vain. 

H. C. 

Springvale , Natal , 

January , 1866. 


The Tight of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved. 


VOL. I. 

IZINGANEKWANE. 

(NUESEKY TALES.) 



IZINGANEKWANE. 


INTRODUCTION TO THE ZULU NURSERY TALES. 


Like most other people, the Zulus have their Nursery Tales. They 
have not hitherto, so far as I know, been collected. Indeed, it is pro- 
bable that their existence even is suspected but by a few ; for the 
women are the depositaries of these Tales ; and it is not common to 
meet with a man who is well acquainted with them, or who is willing 
to speak of them in any other way than as something which he has 
some dim recollection of having heard his grandmother relate. It has 
been no easy matter to drag out the following Tales ; and it is evident 
that many of them are but fragments of some more perfect narrative. 
One cannot but feel that one has here put together a great deal of 
what is supremely ridiculous, and which considered by itself may well 
be regarded as utterly unworthy of being perpetuated. Yet ridiculous 
and worthless as it is in itself, it will have its use in many ways. It 
will, I think, help us to find unsuspected points of contact between 
the Zulus and other people ; and may even give us a clue to their 
origin. It will also give them a claim to be reckoned as an integral 
part of our common humanity, by showing that they have so many 
thoughts in common with other men, and have retained in their tra- 
ditional tales so much that resembles the traditional tales of other 
people. It will form a book, too, which the young Kafir will greedily 
read, whilst he pores, not without loathing, over translations which he 
understands with difficulty, which relate to subjects that are new and 
strange to him, and which he does not readily comprehend ; to which, 
it may be, he has a repugnance. It would be a great mistake to teach 
an English child to read solely from the Bible or books of devotion : 
yet this is what hitherto we have been doing, with scarcely any 
exception, for the Zulu. We want to teach the young Kafirs to read. 
We must, then, give them some inducement to read; and where can 
we find a greater than by giving them the traditionary tales of their 
forefathers, in the same words as they have heard them around their 
hut-fires 1 

The first Tale in the Series is the History of the Travels and 
Adventures of Uthlakanyana, a kind of Tom Thumb, the Giant 


2 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Killer. Not that his cunning is exerted on giants alone. All is fish 
that comes to Uthlakanyana's net ! Uthlakanyana is not a common 
man : he is a cunning, malicious dwarf ; and is possessed of magical 
powers. There are in these Tales, too, accounts of gigantic cannibals, 
who can carry a man in a sack, or swallow him at a gulp, as the 
Guzzler, in Uthlakanyana ; whilst the ogress Uzwanide, or Long-toe, 
is evidently a mighty magician, and capable, like Heitsi Eibip, of the 
Hottentots , 1 of rising from a succession of deaths. We have, too, 
various animals introduced, not exactly as in Fables, but talking 
freely and, as it were, naturally, and holding intercourse with man. 
The leopard, the hare, the iguana ; doves, swallows, pigeons, and mice 
play their part on the stage, sometimes in their own characters, some- 
times rather as forms assumed by magical powers ; as the swallow in 
the Tale of Uzwanide, and the striped mouse in that of Ubabuze. 
All these Tales allude more or less distinctly to the magical, and a 
contest going on between good and malicious genii ; and it is remark- 
able that nothing is said of the use of medicines, so much talked of 
now among the natives, and which they imagine can produce such 
marvellous results — love or hatred ; beauty or deformity ; prosperity 
or ill-luck ; bravery or cowardice. This would seem to give the Tales 
an antiquity of origin, referring them back to a very different social 
condition from that now existing. There are two Tales in which a 
Magical Tree is introduced ; and there is the Rock of Two-holes, 
which opens and closes at the voice of those who know the secret, 
reminding one of " Open Sesame" in the Forty Thieves. Huge fabu- 
lous monsters, the existence of which has not been suggested by the 
fossil bones of extinct animals , 2 are introduced ; the Isikgukgumadevu, 
which was as big as a mountain ; the Isitwalangcengce, or Isidawane, 
which carried people away on its head, and fed on their brains, and to 
this day is the nursery bogy, with which noisy Zulu children are 
silenced; and the huge River Tortoise, which is mistaken for an 
island. And then there is what is probably a modem "Myth of 
Observation," in which is gravely related, as a fact, the existence of a 
Fiery Serpent five hundred yards long ! 

I have combined with the Nursery Tales the few Fables I 
have met with, and some other Narratives, which do not properly 
belong to them, but which could not so well be arranged with any 
other subject. 

1 Bleek's Hottentot Fables and Tales, p. 75. 

2 See Tylor's Researches into the Early History of Mankind. 


UHLAKANYANA. 


3 


PREFACE TO THE TALE OF UTHLAKANYANA. 


Uhlakanyana umuntu oAlakani- 
pile kakulu, onmcinyane kakulu, 
ngangekcakide. Lo 'muntu wa 
deleleka ngezikati zonke kulabo 
'bantu, aeba ko/disa, a vela kubo ; 
ngokuba ba be ti, ba nge koAliswe 
umntwana ; ba nga koAliswa umu- 
ntu o ngangabo. Ku ngaloko ke 
ngoku nga m kgondi, ukuba ka 
kulanga nje ngokusindwa ubukgili 
noku/dakanipa, wa za wa batslia, 
wa ba imbatshelana yokudelelwa, 
ba zinge be m delela njalo. Kepa 
a koAHse umuntu e nga bonakali- 
sisi ukuba u yena impela o fanele 
ukukoAlisa. Kwa tiwa futi u 
Ukcaij ana-bogconono, MaAlab'-in- 
doda-i-s'-emi. Lelo 'gama lokuti 
Ukcaij ana innyamazane encinyane 
ebomvana, i nomsila omnyama, 
isiAloko sawo. Kepa leyo 'nyama- 
zane innyamazane e/dakanipe ka- 
kulu kunezinye, ngokuba ubukgili 
bayo bukulu. Ku ti, uma ku 
tiywe insimba, i fika masinyane 
endAlwaneni, i tate umjonjo 4 o 
bekelwa insimba, i godele yona 
kuk^ala ; i ya fika insimba, i fika 
umjonjo se u d/di we ikcakide. 


U thlakanyana is a very cunning 
man ; be is also very small, of 
tbe size of a weasel. This man 
was despised constantly among 
those peojole, whom he used to 
deceive, and from whom he sprang; 
for they thought they could not 
be deceived by a child — they could 
be deceived by a man as big as 
themselves. Therefore, through 
not understanding him, that he 
had not grown because he was 
overweighted by cunning and wis- 
dom, and so was undersized, and 
became a contemptible dwarf, they 
habitually despised him at all 
times. But he deceived a man, 
through his not being clearly seen 
to be, in fact, the very man 
to deceive. He was called also 
Ukcaij ana-bogconono, Mathlab'-in- 
doda-i-s'-emi. The word Ukcaij ana 
signifies a little red animal, which 
has a black-tipped tail. And this 
animal is cleverer than all others, 
for its cunning is great . 3 4 If a trap 
is set for a wild cat, it comes 
immediately to the trap, and takes 
away the mouse which is placed 
there for the cat : it takes it out 
first ; and when the cat comes, the 
mouse has been already eaten by 
the weasel. 


3 As we say in English, "You must be pretty deep, to catch weasels 
asleep." 

4 Umjonjo. — This name is given to the mouse only when it is used as a bait. 
Its meaning is uncertain. But it is an ukuhlonipa -word, that is, a term of 
respect. The natives say that if they give a mouse the name of impuku when 
used as a bait, it will not catch anything, because it has been treated with 
contempt ! It is also called injova , and umvuzane. The same notion appears 
below, where it is said that when a weasel has been caught, it stands in the way 
of other animals, that is, exerts an influence adverse to the trapper's success. — 
The same remarkable custom of speaking of numerous animals, and even of 
inanimate things, by euphemisms, instead of by their proper names, prevails in 
the north of Europe. ( Thorpe's Northern Mythology, Vol. II., p. 83 . ) 


4 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Futi, i Alup' abantu ; ngokuba 
uma i nga tandi ukusuka enclAle- 
leni, i ti i nga bona umuntu 'eza, i 
kcezuke kancinane endAleleni, i 
bod/de, y etuse umuntu ; nembala 
umuntu a ze a gweme lapo, e ti i 
vinjelwe isilwane. Kanti ikcakide. 
Kumbe ku ti, lapa e se hambele 
kude, e hamb' e bheka, a bone se 
li suka, li gijima; umuntu a jambe, 
a pel' amandAla, ngokuti, " O, in- 
d/dela le ngi i shiyiswe i lesi 'sili- 
mana ! " A buyele end/deleni. 


Futi, li ya zondana kakulu 
nezinyoka ; ngokuba li ya zi d/da. 
Ku ti lapa li bona kona imamba 
y ejwayele, li i linde, li ze li bone 
ukuba i pumile, y alukile ; li sale 
li ngene kuk^ala emgodini wayo, 
ukuze i t' i fika, i fike se li pam- 
bili ; li i bone i s' eza njeya ; li be 
li lunga, li /dale emgochni, se li 
bbekene nen/doko, ukuze i ti i sa 
ngena imamba, loku i ngena pela 
emgodini wayo a y azi 'luto, li i 
bambe ngen/doko, li pume nayo ; 
se li bod/da li i bulale ; li d/dale, 
li i d/dalela, ngokuba li i bulele. 
Li zinge li y ekga ekupeleni, li i 
d/de. 


Futi, ikcakide li nesisila esikulu ; 
ngokuba uma abatiyi be tiyile izi- 
nyamazane, kwa banjwa ikcakide, 
lowo 'muntu k' etembi ukuba izi- 
nyamazane u ya 'ku zi bamba ; u 
y' azi ukuba ikcakide li ya landula ; 5 
umva walo mubi. Noma u Alan- 


It also is a trouble to men ; for 
if it does not choose to get out of 
the way, if it see a man coming, 
it just quits the path a little, and 
growls and frightens the man ; 
and, sure enough, at length he 
goes round, thinking the path is 
obstructed by a wild animal. And 
it is a weasel, forsooth. Perhaps, 
when he has gone to a distance, 
he going and looking, he sees it 
depart and run away ; so he is 
ashamed, and his heart sinks, and 
he says, " O, I have been made to 
quit the path by this piece of de- 
formity ! " And he returns to the 
path. 

Again, it is at great enmity 
with snakes ; for it eats them, if 
it sees a place to which an imamba 
habitually resorts, it watches it, 
until it sees that it has gone out 
to feed ; it then goes into the hole 
of the snake first, that when the 
snake comes, it may come, it being 
there beforehand ; it sees the snake 
coming at some distance, and pre- 
pares itself ; it remains in the hole 
altogether intent on the snake's 
head, that as soon as the snake 
enters, — for it enters the hole 
without any suspicion, — it may lay 
hold of its head, and go out with 
it ; and then it growls and kills it : 
it plays with the snake because it 
has killed it. At last it jumps 
backwards and forwards over the 
snake, and eats it. 

Again, the weasel is an animal 
which occasions very bad luck ; 
for if trappers trap wild animals, 
and a weasel is caught, that man 
has no confidence that he shall 
catch any animals : he knows that 
the weasel stands in the way ; evil 


5 Landula , " stands in the way," that is, not by actual presence, but by a 
kind of magical influence. The meaning of IJmuva is, " that which follows in 
order after, or as the result of something." Its force may be understood by 
comparing it with antecedents. As we say, "his antecedents are bad;" so 
here, if we may coin a word, "the succedents of the weasel are bad ; " that is, 
that which follows in order after, or happens as a result of its entering the trap, 
is bad luck. Or it may be rendered the " leavings." 


UHLAKANYANA. 


5 


gene nalo endAleleni, 1' ek^a in- 
dAlela, a u tembi ukuba lapa u ya 
kona u ya 'ku ku fumana ukudAla ; 
u ti, "Ngi Alangene nomtakati, 
nokudAla a ngi sa yi 'ku ku tola." 

Ukcaijana u lingana nekcakide ; 
ku nga i lolu 'luAlobo impela; 
ngokuba e bizwa ngegama lekca- 
kide, ku nga u 'luAlobo lunye 
nekcakide ; ubuncinane bake bu 
ngangobalo ; nobukgili bake bu 
ngangobalo : u lingana nalo ngako 
konke. 

Amanye amabizo okuti Bogco- 
nono, MaAlab'-indoda-i-s'-emi, izi- 
bongo zake zokutshenisa ubukgawe 
bake ; u wezwa 7 ngazo. Lapa ku 
tiwa Bogconono, ku tiwa uma si 
kumusha, " owabogconono," isiswe 
sakubo esi pambili. Ogconono 
elinye ilizwi eli nga Alangani 
kakulu nelokuti UmaAlab'-indoda. 
Li lodwa Iona, ngokuba li ti 
" amakcakide." Uma si kumusha 
UmaAlab'-indoda-i-s'-emi, li ti, u i 
Alaba kukgala, i sa delele, i bona 
emncinane, i ti, inganyana nje; 
a i bulale, i nga ka m enzi 'luto. 


follows it. Or if you have fallen 
in with it in a path, it crossing 
the path, 6 7 you no longer expect to 
get food at the place where you 
are going ; you say, " I have fallen 
in with a wizard, and I shall no 
longer get any food." 

XJkcaijana is like the weasel ; it 
is as though he was really of that 
genus, for since he is called by the 
name of the weasel, it is as though 
he was of the same genus as it; 
his smallness is like its, and his 
cunning as great as its : he resem- 
bles it in all respects. 

The other names, Bogconono, 
Mathlab'-indoda-i-s'-emi, are his 
praise-giving names, which set forth 
his bravery : he is lauded by them. 
When we say Bogconono, it means, 
when interpreted, " one of the 
weasel family," the nation from 
which he sprung. Ogconono is a 
word which has a different mean- 
ing from Umathlab'-indoda ; it has 
its distinct meaning, for it means 
" weasels." If we interpret Uma- 
thiab'-indoda-i-s'-emi, it means that 
he stabs a man first, whilst he still 
despises him, seeing that he is so 
small, and regarding him as a mere 
infant ; he kills the man before he 
has done anything to him. 


6 So in other countries it is considered a bad sign if a hare cross the way. 
(Thorpe, Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 274.) 

7 Ukuweza , " to help to cross a river," or ukuweza ngamazibulco, " to help 
to cross over by the fords," is used of celebrating the praises of braves, by 
recounting one after another their praise-giving names, which they have gained 
by great actions. Amazibuko is used metaphorically for the difficult things they 
have accomplished. Thus, if a man has interfered between two fighting bulls, 
or between two contending parties, and so has obtained the praise-giving name, 
U mulamula-nkunzi-zi-lwako, " He-separates-fighting-bulls," they pass him over 
the river by this name. 


c 


IZINGANERWANE. 


UIILAKANYANA. 


U thlakanyana speaks before he is born. 


Kwa ti umfazi w' emita. Kwa ti 
ngensuku wa kuluma umntwana 
esiswini, wa ti, "Ngi zale masinya; 
inkomo zikababa za pela abantu." 
Wa t' unina, " Ake ni ze 'kuzwa ; 
nanku um/Jola ; iimntwana u ya 
kuluma kumi esiswini lapa." Ba 
ti, " XJ ti ni na ? " "Uf 'A ngi 
m zale masinya ; ' u ti, * Inkomo 
zi ya pela esibayeni.' " 


A certain woman happened to 
be pregnant. When her time was 
fully come, the child spoke in the 
womb, and said, "Mother, give 
birth to me at once ; the cattle of 
my father are devoured by the 
people." The mother said, " Just 
come and listen. Here is a pro- 
digy. The child is speaking within 
me." They asked, "What does 
he say 1 " " He tells me to give 

birth to him at once ; he says the 
cattle in the kraal are coming to 
an end." 8 


The father calls the people together. 


Kwa ku /datshiwe inkabi uyise. 
Ba fika abantu, ba butana, ba 
puma namadoda esibayeni, ba ti, 
"Woza ni 'kuzwa; nank' umAlola, 
umntwana e kuluma." Wa tsho 
uyise, wa ti, " Ka kulume ke 
umntwana njengokutsho kwako." 
Wa kuluma umntwana, wa ti, 
" Yebo ; ngi ti, ka ngi zale umame, 
ngokuba inkomo zi ya pela esiba- 
yeni ; nami ngi ti, a ngi ye 'kuzi- 
Alinzela innyama." Ba ti manga 
abantu, ba ti, " Ku za 'kwenziwa 
njani na? " 


The father had slaughtered some 
oxen. The people came together, 
and left the cattle-kraal with the 
men, crying, " Oome and hear. 
Here is a prodigy, an unborn child 
speaking ! " The father said, "Let 
the child speak according to your 
saying." The child spoke, and 
said, "Yes, indeed, I say, let my 
mother give birth to me ; for the 
cattle in the kraal are coming to 
an end. And, I say, let me go 
and get ready flesh for myself." 
The people wondered, and said, 
" What is going to happen ! " 


8 How utterly absurd and far-fetched ! exclaims the English reader. Yet 
a no less wonderful thing happened, according to Mabillon, towards the end of 
the fifth century. He informs us that "St. Benedict sang eucharistic hymns in 
his mother's womb." (Stephen's Ecclesiastical Biography. ) To whom shall we 
award the palm of originality — to Pope Gregory the First, Mabillon's authority, 
or to the inventor of the Tale of Uthlakanyana ? The Pope intended his " pious 
fraud " to be believed ; the author of Uthlakanyana intended his fiction to pro- 
duce laughter. The authors of fiction are allowed some license ; but those who 
invent "pious frauds" should be careful to state, as facts, such things only as 
are within the bounds of possibility. 


UHLAKANYANA. 


7 


A ll the 'people are put out of the hut, wruL V thlahany ana is born. 


Wa ti uyise, "A ku punywe 
endAlini : a u zale, si m bone ukuba 
umuntu ini na 1 ? Ku 'mAlola lo." 
Ba puma ke bonke. Wa ti uyise, 
" A ku nga Alali 'muntu. Bonke 
abantu ba pume, ngokuba u k^ale 
ukukuluma e yedwa unina." Ba 
puma ke. Wa puma umntwana 
esiswini. Wa ti e sa puma, w' ema. 
Wa ti unina, "Woza lapa, ngi 
ku ngume oku lengako." Wa ti 
umntwana, "K^abo. Musa uku 
ngi n^uma, ngi za 'kuzinguma ; 
nami ngi mdala ; ngi indoda 
yebandAla." Wa tata umkonto 
woyise, wa zin^uma, wa laAla 
pantsi. Wa tabata unina amanzi, 
wa m geza. 


The father said, " Let all go out 
of the house. Do you give birth to 
him, that we may see if it is a man 
or not. It is a prodigy, this." All 
went out. The father said, " Let 
no man remain. But all go out, 
because he began to speak when 
his mother was alone." So they 
went out : and the child was born. 
As soon as he was born, he stood 
up. His mother said, " Come 
here, and let me cut off that which 
is hanging from you." The child 
said , 9 " No, indeed. Don't you cut 
me ; I am going to cut myself. I 
too am old. I am a man of the 
council." He took his father's 
spear , 10 and cut himself, and threw 
it down. His mother took water, 
' and washed him. 


Uthlakanyana goes out , and the people run cmay. 


Wa puma ke nomkonto ; wa m 
amuka pand/de unina ; wa u shiya, 
wa ngena esibayeni ; ibandAla la 
baleka ; wa /Jala eziko, wa dAla 
imbengo e b' i dAliwa libandAla. 


He went out with the spear; 
his mother took it from him out- 
side : he left it, and went into the 
cattle-kraaL The men ran away. 
He sat down by the fire, and ate a 
strip of meat, which the men had 


9 In 1623 a report was extensively circulated in Europe, that information 
had been received from their spies by the " brothers of the Order of St. John 
of Jerusalem, in the isle of Malta," of the birth of a child "on the 1st of May, 
1623," near Babylon, which " said child, incontinent on his birth, walked and 
talked perfectly well. " The child was supposed to be Antichrist. (English- 
man's Magazine. Vol. II., p. 116.,) 

10 The word Umkonto, usually translated assagai, is applied to any weapon 
which is used in fighting, slaughtering, or hunting. (A gun or a knife is so 
called. ) There are various kinds ; all two-edged and sharp -pointed. The 
isinkemba or isijula consists of a broad and long blade, with a short strong 
shank, which is set entirely into a strong stick. They use this as an axe, when 
necessary, or to dig up roots. It is a deadly weapon, and would make a wound 
between two and three inches long. Ingcaice : A short blade, about as long as 
the finger, and slender ; the shank is very long, and is often twisted, or other- 
wise ornamented ; its stick is slender and short. It is used for hunting, either 
by throwing or stabbing, and in slaughtering. The irihkrihla or izakha is 
barbed, with shortish shank, and is used in hunting. The ikebezana has a short 
light blade ; it is used for carving, skinning, and eating. Ikhhica : Has a long 
blade, about as wide as two fingers, short shank and stick ; it is used as the " 
ingcaice. These are the chief genera of imikonto ; there are many other names, 
which are used to specify more slight peculiarities. 


D 


8 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


La buya, la ti, "Indoda kanti; 
umuntu omdala : si be si ti 
umntwana." A buza amadoda, a 
ti, " U yena umntwana na o be 
kuluma kuwe na esiswini sako ? " 
Wa ti unina, " U ye." 


been eating. The men came 
back, and said, " So then it is a 
man ! an old man ! We thought 
it was a child." The men en- 
quired, and said, " Is this the 
very child which was speaking 
within you?" The mother said, 
"It is he." 


The men praise his wisdom, and propose that he shall be the great child. 


Ba ti, " O, si ya bonga, nkosi- 
kazi : u si zalele umntwana oAlaka- 
nipile e sa zalwa. A si bonanga si 
bona umntwana e njengalo'mntwa- 
na ; lo umntwana u fanele ukuba a 
be umntwana omkulu kubo bonke 
abantwana benkosi, ngokuba u si 
mangalisile ngokuAlakanipa kwa- 
ke." 


They said, " O, we thank you, 
our queen. You have brought 
forth for us a child who is wise as 
soon as he is born. We never saw 
a child like this child. This child 
is fit to be the great child among 
all the king's children, for he has 
made us wonder by his wisdom ." 11 


Uthlakanyana proposes a test of manhood. 


" Yebo ! " wa ti umntwana. 
" Baba, lo ni ti ngi umntwana (ngi 
ya bona ukuba ni ti ngi umntwa- 
na, nina), tata umlenze wenkomo, u 
u ponse lapa ngenzantsi kwesibaya, 
si bone ke ukuba u ya ku tatwa 
ngubani na ? B' esuke bonke aba- 
ntu bako, nabafana namadoda, si 
ye 'ku u tata umlenze, si ze si bone 
ke, o indoda ; u ya 'kuba ngu ye o 
indoda, o ya 'kutata umlenze." 
Wa u tata ke uyise, wa u ponsa 
ngenzantsi kwesibaya. Ba ya 'ku- 
kcinana ngasesangweni bonke, eli 
ngasenAla; yena wa puma ngase- 


"Yes, indeed," said the child. 
" Father, since you say I am a child 
(I perceive that you, for your part, 
think I am a child), take a leg of 
beef, and throw it below the kraal, 
that we may see who will get it 
first. Let all your people, both 
boys and men, and me, go to fetch 
the leg, so at length we shall see 
who is the man. He shall be the 
man who gets the leg." So the 
father took the leg, and threw it 
below the kraal. They all crowded 
together at the opening, at the 
upper part of the kraal ; 1J but he 


11 In the Basuto Legend, Litaolane grows to the stature and wisdom of man- 
hood as soon as he is born. But Uthlakanyana is a destroyer, Litaolane a 
deliverer. On the day of his birth he kills the monster Kammapa, the devourer 
of the world. Some things are said of him that are said of Uthlakanyana ; but 
Litaolane's skill is used only in self-defence. ( Casalis ' Basutos , p. 347 . ) In 
the Arabic Legend, Abraham is nourished by food miraculously supplied from 
his own fingers, and in fifteen months attains the size and semblance of a youth 
of fifteen years. Arabic Legends." Englishman's Magazine. Vol. II., p. 
246J 

12 Among the natives of these parts, the opening of the cattle-kraal looks 
downwards. Among the Amakxosa, Amapondo, Amabakca, &c., it looks 
upwards. 


UHLAKANYANA. 


9 


nzantsi kwesibaya, e kcusha; wa 
Alangana nabo e se buya nawo 
umlenze. Wa ti, " Mame, yamu- 
kela ke ; nantsi inyama yami." 
Wa ti unina, "Ngi ya jabula 
namAla, ngokuba ngi zele indoda e 
Alakanipile." 


went out at the lower, creeping 
through the enclosure; and met 
them when he was already return- 
ing with the leg . 13 He said, 
" Mother, just take it. Here is 
my meat." His mother said, " I 
am glad this day, because I have 
given birth to a Wise man." 


UtMakanyana practises hypocrisy , and appropriates the property of 

other people. 


Wa buya wa ya esibayeni : kwa 
piwa omunye umuntu, o indoda, 
uyise. Wa ti, " Leti kwimi, ngi 
ye 'ku ku bekela endAlini yako." 
Wa ti, " Yebo ke, mntwana we- 
nkosi." Wa i tabata inyama, wa 
ngena end/dini ; w' etula isitebe 
nepini, wa bukca igazi esitebeni 
nasepinini ; wa puma nayo, wa 
ya kunina nayo inyama ; wa ti, 
"Mame, yamukela ; nantsi inyama 
yami" Wa bonga kubo bonke 
bebandAla; wa buya wa bonga ke. 
Wa buya w' enza njalo na kwe- 
nye indoda, wa i tata njalo, wa ti, 


He returned to the cattle-kraal. 
His father was giving another man 
some meat. He said, " Hand it to 
me, that I may put it for you in your 
house." The man replied, " Yes, 
certainly, child of the king." He 
took the meat, and went into the 
house; he took down the eating- 
mat and stick, and smeared blood 
on them, and went out with the 
meat, and took it to his mother, 
and said, " Mother, take it ; here 
is my meat." He gave thanks to 
each of the men (as he took the 
meat from him) ; and gave thanks 
again on his return. Again, he 
did the same to another man ; he 


13 How deep a descent from the grand and poetical to the petty and prac- 
tical, when Uthlakanyana's exhibition of strength on a leg of beef is compared 
with that of Magni, a son of Thor and Jamsaxa, who, when only three days 
old, removed the giant Hrungnir's foot from the neck of Thor, which all the 
gods had been unable to do ! (Northern Mythology. Vol. p. 71.) Or that 
of " Odin's son Vali, who though only one day old, unwashed and uncombed, 
slew Hod," to avenge the death of Baldur. ( Id., p. 77.) Or that of Hercules, 
who when eight months old boldly seizes and squeezes to death the snakes sent 
to destroy him. Or with the Basuto Legend, where Litaolane kills the monster 
Kammapa on the day of his birth. But in Rabelais' political satires imagi- 
nation is carried further than in either, both as regards coarseness and 
exaggeration. He represents the birth of "the gigantic despot" Gargantua 
as miraculous. He springs from his mother's left ear ; and at once, 
instead of uttering the infant's ordinary cry, shouts with a loud voice, "A 
boire, a boire, k boire ; comme invitant tout le monde k boire." (Book /., ch. 
6. ) And his son Pantagruel far exceeded his father ; and the youthful feat of 
Hercules was as nothing compared with that of Pantagruel. At each meal he 
sucked in the milk of four thousand six hundred cows ; and whilst yet in his 
cradle one day seized one of them by the hind leg, and eat into the bowels and 
devoured the liver and kidneys. The attendants summoned by the cow's cries, 
took it away, but not before he had got possession of the leg, which he eat up 
like a sausage, swallowing the bone as a cormorant would a little fish ; and then 
cried, " Good, good, good ! " And when bound with large cables to prevent a 
repetition of such voracity, he snapped the cables asunder with as much facility 
as Samson the withs with which he was bound. (Book II., ch. 4. ) 


10 


IZINGAXEKWANE. 


"Lota kumi, ngi ye 'ku ku bekela I 
endAlini yako." W' enza njalo 
njengokuba 'enze njalo nakweyo- 
kuk^ala; wa bukca isitebe nepini, 
wa shiya njalo, wa i sa kwabo ; 
wa ti, " Mame, yamukela ; nantsi 
inyama yami." Wa bonga unina, 
wa ti, "Ngi zeleindodanamuAla." 
Kulo lonke ibandAla a ku banga ko 
namunye owa i funyana inyama 
yake. Ya pelela kwabo vena lowo 
umfana, o zelwe ngelanga lelo eli 
Alabile inkabi zoyise. La tshona 
ilanga; ba m buza bonke bomuzi, 
be nga i funyani. Wa ti, " Bheka 
ipini nesitebe, ukuba a ngi i beka- 
nga na esitebeni, ng > etula ipini, 
nga i Aloma pezulu, njengokuba 
inyama i ya Alonywa pezulu." Ba 
ti, "Yebo; si ya si bona isitebe 
sibomvu, nepini libomvu. Kepa 
y' etulwe ini na 1 " Wa ti ke, 
" Lo, nasi isitebe sibomvu nje." 
Bonke ke kwa njalo, kubo bonke 
ke kwa njalo ; wa banga ngesitebe 
kubo bonke abantu bomuzi woyise. 


took his meat in the same way ; he 
said, " Hand it to me, that I may 
put it for you in your house." He 
did with that as he had done with 
the first ; he smeared the feeding- 
mat and stick ; he left them in the 
same way, and took the meat to 
his own house, and said, " Mother, 
take it; here is my meat." His 
mother thanked him, and said, " I 
have given birth to a man this 
day." In the whole company 
there was not one who found his 
meat. The whole of it was in the 
house of the boy, who was born 
on the day the oxen of his father 
were slaughtered. The sun set. 
All the people of the village en- 
quired of him when they did not 
find the meat. He said, " Look 
at the stick and the feeding-mat, 
whether I did not place it on the 
mat, and take down the stick and 
hang it up, as meat is hung up 1 " 
They said, "Yes, we see the feed- 
ing-mat is bloody, and the stick is 
bloody. Then has the meat been 
taken down 1 " So he said, " (Yes), 
for there is the mat really bloody." 
All made the same enquiry ; and 
he answered them all alike. He 
persisted in making the feeding- 
mat a witness to all the people 
of his father's village. 


The women express great doubt as to Uthlakanyana being a real 

man. 


Abafazi bomuzi ba kala, ba ti, 
"NamuAla ku zelwe nina? Ku 
zelwe umuntu onjani na? A bo- 
nanga si ku bona loku. Nina ni 
be ni m tumela ni, lo ni ya bona 
nje, ukuba UAlakanyana lo na? 
Ni ti umuntu na? Ni ti umuntu 


The women of the kraal cried 
out saying, "What is this that has 
been bom to-day ? What sort of 
a man is this that has been born ? 
We never saw the like. Why did 
you send him, since you clearly see 
that this is TJthlakany ana? Do you 
say he is a man? 14 Do you say 


14 It is a pity these women were not acquainted with Ellen Leah's specific 
for testing the fact of Uthlakanyana' s being a real man ora " fairy substitute." 
Mrs. Sullivan had "a healthy, blue-eyed baby, which in one night shrivelled 


UHLAKANYANA. 


11 


wa ka wa nje na, 'azi ukukuluma 
kangaka e se umntwana, a kgine 
kangaka 'a/dule amacloda a ama- 
dala ? Ni be ni nga m boni ini na 
ekutateni kwake uni lenze wenkabi 1 
Ni nga ni k^ondile lapo, ukuti lo 


there ever was such a man, who 
knew how to speak thus whilst a 
child ; and who was so strong that 
he could get the better of old men 1 
Did you not see him when he took 
the leg of beef ? You might then 
have understood that this man was 


into almost nothing, and never ceased squalling and crying." Of course Mrs. 
Sullivan believed, and her neighbours helped her in the belief, that fairies had 
taken a fancy to her baby, and had placed one of themselves in its stead ; and 
it was nothing but the strong resemblance which still lurked under the shrunken 
features, that saved the changeling from being griddled alive, or having some 
other equally merciful experiment tried upon it, which was sure to settle the 
child's identity by proving the possibility or impossibility of destroying it ! But 
Ellen Leah was a more sensible and cautious woman ; she recommended Mrs. 
Sullivan to make a "brewery of egg-shells," and she would see what she 
would see ; and then if the " squalling, crying" thing turned out to be a fairy, 
and not till then, the red-hot poker was to be crammed down its throat. Mrs. 
Sullivan determined to try Ellen Leah's specific, and the following is the result, 
no doubt in the authentic words of Mrs. Sullivan herself, duly attested : — 

' ' Home went Mrs. Sullivan, and did as Ellen Leah desired. She put the 
pot on the fire, and plenty of turf under it, and set the water boiling at such a 
rate, that if ever water was red-hot — it surely was. 

" The child was lying for a wonder quite easy and quiet in the cradle, every 
now and then cocking his eye, that would twinkle as keen as a star in a frosty 
night, over at the great fire, and the big pot upon it ; and he looked on with 
great attention at Mrs. Sullivan breaking the eggs, and putting down the egg- 
shells to boil. At last he asked, with the voice of a very old man, ' What are 
you doing, mammy ? ' 

"Mrs. Sullivan's heart, as she said herself, was up in her mouth ready to 
choke her, at hearing the child speak. But she contrived to put the poker in 
the fire, and to answer, without making any wonder at the words, ' I'm brewing, 
a vick ' (my son). 

" ' And what are you brewing, mammy ? ' said the little imp, whose super- 
natural gift of speech now proved beyond question that he was a fairy substi- 
tute. 

" 'I wish the poker was red,' thought Mrs. Sullivan ; but it was a large 
one, and took a long time heating : so she determined to keep him in talk until 
the poker was in a proper state to thrust down his throat, and therefore repeated 
the question. 

" ' Is it what I'm brewing, a vick,* said she, * you want to know ? ' 

" 'Yes, mammy : what are you brewing ? ' returned the fairy. 

" 'Egg-shells, a vick,* said Mrs. Sullivan. 

" ' Oh ! ' shrieked the imp, starting up in the cradle, and clapping his hands 
together, ' I'm fifteen hundred years in the world, and I never saw a brewery of 
egg-shells before ! ' The poker was by this time quite red, and Mrs. Sullivan 
seizing it ran furiously towards the cradle ; but somehow or other her foot 
slipped, and she fell flat on the floor, and the poker flew out of her hand to the 
other end of the house. However, she got up, without much loss of time, and 
went to the cradle, intending to pitch the wicked thing that was in it into the 
pot of boiling water, when there she saw her own child in a sweet sleep, one of 
his soft round arms rested on the pillow — his features were as placid as if their 
repose had never been disturbed, save the rosy mouth which moved with a gentle 
and regular breathing." ( Croker's Fairy Legends and Traditions of the South of 
Ireland.) 

For the various methods for detecting an imp which has taken the place of 
a child, see Thorpe , Op. cit. Vol. II., pp. 174—177. 


12 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


'muntu ka mitwanga ; u ngene nje 
lapa kuy' inkosikazi ; u ngene, ka 
mitwanga; nenkosi le ka si ye 
wayo. Si y' ala manje tina sonke, 
tina 'bafazi ; nani nina 'madoda ni 
za 'ku m bona ngenye imini; u 
za 'kwenza izinto ezinkulu, ngo- 
kuba e kulumile esiswini. Nantsi 
inyama yenu e n' amukile ngomlo- 
mo, ni 'badala nonke ; wa za wa 
ko/disa noyise ngomlenze wenkabi 
yake. U za 'kwenza imi/dola, 
ngokuba naye e ng' um/dola, isibili 
somAlola." 

Ya pela ke inyama leyo. 


not produced in a natural way. He 
got into the queen ; he got in ; 15 he 
was not produced in a natural way ; 
and as for the king, he is not his 
son. All we women deny it now j 
and you men will see it some other 
day. He will do great things, for 
he spoke before he was born. 
There, he has taken away your 
meat from you by his mouth, and 
you all old men too ; and he cir- 
cumvented even his father about 
his leg of beef. He will do pro- 
digies ; for he, too, is a prodigy, a 
real prodigy." 

Thus, all that meat was finished. 


U thlakanyana goes a hunting , and takes birds out of other people's 

traps. 


Wa hamba, wa ya 'uzingela 
ngasemfuleni ; wa fimyana izitiyo, 
ziningi kakulu, zi babisile izinyoni, 
izind/dazi, zonke izitiyo ; zi nga- 
mbili na ngantatu. Wa zi koka ke 
zonke, wa zi bopa umfunzi, wa 
goduka nazo. Wa fika ekaya, wa 
ngena kunina, wa ti, " Mame, 
ng' etule, ngi ya sindwa." Wa ti, 
" XJ twele ni na ? " Wa ti, " Ngi 
twele izinyoni zami, e ngi be ngi 
ye 'ku zi zingela." Wa bonga 
unina, wa ti, " IJmfana wami u 
indoda, u /dakanipile. Wena u ya 


Uthlakanyana went to hunt by 
the river. He found very many 
traps: all the traps had caught 
birds, izindhlazi, by twos and by 
threes. So he took them all out, 
and made them into a bundle, and 
went home with them. On his 
arrival he went in to his mother, 
and said, " Mother, take off my 
load ; I am weighed down." She 
said, " What are you carrying % " 
He said, " I am carrying my birds, 
which I went to catch." His mo- 
ther returned thanks, saying, "My 
boy is a man. He is wise. You 


15 Luther believed in some such thing as this, which he speaks of not as a 
possibility merely, but as fact, which had come under his own observation. He 
says that, under certain circumstances, the offspring of women is "oftentimes 
an imp of darkness, half mortal, half devil ; " and adds, " such cases are pecu- 
liarly horrible and appalling. " (Michelet's Life of Luther. Bogue. p. 325.) 
Such belief was not peculiar to Luther. He held it in common with his 
countrymen and the rest of Europe. In the Danish Traditions there is the 
legend of a demon who, under the form of " Brother Ruus," succeeded in cor- 
rupting, and almost in handing over to absolute perdition, the good brethren of 
Esrom; but having been detected, was " conjured into the form of a horse " by 
the abbot, and on promising to do no more harm, and swearing eternal 
obedience to him, was allowed to go free. The demon then passes over to 
England, and " enters the king's fair daughter." When no wise man could be 
found sufficiently wise to expel the intruder, at length the demon himself ex- 
claims, "lam Brother Ruus. No one can expel me from this fair vessel, save 
the abbot of Esrom, to whom I have sworn obedience. " ( Thorpe's Northern 
Mythology. Vol. II. f pp. 2G9.J 


UHLAKANYANA. 


13 


d/dula amadoda onke noyiAlo, na- 
bangane bako." Wa tukulula ke. 
Wa ti, " Zi peke zonke ; u zi name- 
ke." Wa zi peka ke unina. Wa 
ti umfana, "NamAla ngi za 'ku- 
puma lapa endAlini, ngi ye 'kulala 
kwabanye ; u ze u nga zibukuli 
inyoni zami lezi; ku ya 'kufika 
mina kusasa, kona zi ya 'kuba 
mnandi kusasa." 


surpass all the men, and your 
father, and your friends." So she 
untied the birds. He said, " Cook 
them all ; lute them down with 
cowdung." So his mother cooked 
them. The boy said, "I am going 
out of this house to-day, and shall 
sleep with the other boys. Do 
not take the cover off these my 
birds. I shall come in the morn- 
ing ; they will be nice then." 


The boys object to have Uthlakanyana as a bedfellow. 


Wa puma ke, wa ya 'kulala 
kwabanye. Ba ti, " U ya pi na 
lapa na ? A si tandi ukulala na- 
we." Wa ti, " Ini na ukuba ngi 
nga lali kwini, loko nami ngi 
umfana nje na? ngi intombazana 
ini na?" Ba ti, " Kga ! u /daka- 
nipile kakulu. Wa ko/disa obaba 
ngenyama yabo, be i piwe inkosi. 
Wa ti, u ya 'ku ba bekela ezind/dini 
zabo ; a i bonwanga namunye ku- 
wo wonke umuzi lo wenkosi. Nati 
si ya bona ukuba ku si ye owen- 
kosi." Wa ti, "Ngi ng' okabani 
na ? " Ba ti, " A si kw azi ; a ka 
ko o wenkosi o njengawenje. We- 
na u ng' um/dola impela. I kona 
into o ya 'uze u y enze * a ku 'ku- 
pela nje. U um/dola impela." 
Wa ti, " Loku ni tsho, ngi za 
'kulala ngenkani." Ba ti, " Nge- 
nkani yani, u umfana nje na ? U 
ti namand/da u nawo okulwa? u 
namand/da kodwa omlomo nama- 
zwi ako ; u nga s' a/dula ngomlo- 
mo ; amand/da wona ku nawo, 
ngokuba u s' and' ukuzalwa ; 
manje si ya kw azi ukuba u 
umntwana impela. Amazwi ubu- 
/dakani bako ; bu ya s' a/dula 


He went out to go to sleep with 
the other boys. They said, " Where 
are you going here ? We do not 
like to sleep with you." He said, 
" Why may not I sleep with you, 
since I too am a boy indeed? Am 
I a little girl?" They said, " No. 
You are very wise. You deceived 
our fathers about their meat, which 
the king gave them. You said 
you would put it in their houses 
for them. There was not even one 
in the whole village of the king 
who saw anything more of his 
meat. And we see you are not 
the king's son." He said, "Whose 
son am I?" They said, "We 
don't know. There is no child of 
the king like you. You are a 
prodigy, that's a fact. You will 
be up to some mischief. It is not 
ended yet. You are a prodigy, 
that's a fact." He said, "Since 
you say this, I shall sleep here for 
contention's sake." They said, 
" What contention do you mean, 
you being a mere boy? Do you 
say you have strength to fight? 
you have nothing but mouth- and 
word-strength ; you may overcome 
us with the mouth; strength it- 
self you have none, for you are 
just born. Now we know that 
you are a child indeed. Words 
are your wisdom; that surpasses 


14 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


bona kanye na obaba betu.' 
tula ke. Wa tula ke naye. 
lala. 


Ba 

Wa 


us, as well as our fathers." So 
they were silent, and he too was 
silent. He went to sleep. 


Uthlahanyana eats the birds , and deceives his mother. 


Ya kala inkuku. Wa vuka, wa 
ti, " Se ku sile." Wa ti, " Ngi se 
ngi hamba mina, ngokuba inyoni 
zami amakwababa nabantu ba nga 
zi koka." Wa puma, wa fika kwa- 
bo. Ka vulanga, wa pakamisa isi- 
valo send/du yakwabo, wa ngena 
ke, unina e sa lele. Wa zibukula 
embizeni, wa d/da ke inyoni zake ; 
ka zi d/danga in/doko zazo izinyoni 
zonke ; wa zi d/da izidumbu zazo, 
wa zi k^eda zonke. Wa puma, 
wa ola umkguba, wa ngena, wa u 
tela ngapantsi embizeni, wa beka 
izin/doko ngapezulu ; wa nameka, 
Konke loku u sa lele unina. Wa 
puma ngapantsi kwesivalo. W' e- 
muka ingcozana, wa buya futi, 
wa ti, " Marne, mame, ngi vulele," 
njengokuba e sa fika nje. Wa 
ngena, wa ka 'manzi, wa geza ; wa 
ti, "Ngi pe ke izinyoni." Wa be 
te e ngena, wa ti, " Ni lala futi ! 
ku nga ze inyoni zi gukguke um- 
kguba zonke, ngokuba ilanga li se 
li purnile ; ngi y' azi zi ba njalo 
inyoni, imra ilanga li se li purnile, 
njengokuba li se li purnile nje ; si 
nge zi funyane; si nga funyana 
ngapantsi." Wa e se zubukula 
ke ; wa ti, " Ku se ku njalo ; ku 
umk^uba wodwa; ku se ku sele 
in/doko zodwa." Wa ti unina, 
"Kw enziwe ini na?" Wa ti, 
" U y' azi ini na ? " wa ti, " I 
mina ow aziko. Wena u um- 
ntwana omncinane nje. Wa ngi 
zala ini ? Angiti kwa tsho mina, 
nga ti, 'Ngi zale masinya ; in- 
komo zikababa zi ya pela esiba- 


The cock crew. He awoke and 
said, "It is now day. I am now 
going, for my part ; for the crows 
and men may take my birds out 
of the traps." He left, and went 
to his own house. He did not 
open the door ; he raised it, and 
so went in, his mother still sleeping. 
He uncovered the pot, and eat his 
birds ; he did not eat the heads 
of them all ; he eat their bodies, 
every one of them. He went out 
and scraped up some cowdung, and 
returned and put it in the bottom 
of the pot, and placed the heads 
on the top of it; and luted it 
down. He did all this, his mother 
being still asleep. He went out 
under the door. He departed a 
little way, and came back again, 
and said, "Mother, mother, open 
the door for me," as though he had 
only just come. He went in, and 
took water, and washed. He then 
said, "Just give me my birds." 
He had said on his first going in, 
"You sleep for ever! The birds 
may have all turned into dung, for 
the sun is already up. I know 
that birds do so turn when the sun 
has risen, as it has risen now. We 
may not find them, but something 
instead of them at the bottom." 
He uncovered the pot, and said, 
"It is even so now ; there is no- 
thing but dung ; the heads alone 
are left." His mother said, " How 
has it been done?" He said, "Do 
you know how ? " And then, " It 
is I who know. You are but a 
little child. Did you give birth to 
me ? Did not I myself say, ' Give 
birth to me at once ; the cattle of 


UHLAKANYANA. 


15 


my father are ooming to an end in 
the kraal ? * Did you ever hear a 
child say thus, ' Let me be born,' 
he being a child who could be 
worsted by anything ? I am very 
old. I am not your child . 16 And 
that father whom you are with, he 
is not my father ; he is a mere man, 
one of our people, and nothing 
more. As for me, I merely lay 
down in you, you being his wife. 
We will not live together. I 
shall set out on my own account 
by myself, just travelling about, 
and leave you, that you may 
live together here alone. For 

my part, I am going to travel over 
the whole world ." 17 The contents 
of the pot were taken out. His 
mother said, " Alas, my child, you 
have spoken truly ; you said that 
'the birds might turn into dung 
at the bottom of the pot ! * Truly 
there is now nothing but dung at 
the bottom, and the heads alone at 
the top." The boy said, "Just let 
me see them ? " He looked, and eat 
up the heads also himself, every one 
of them : and said, "As you have 
eaten my birds, I will not now 
give you even these heads of them ; 
for it is you who have eaten their 
flesh." So he finished the heads. 

16 "I ani very old," says Uthlakanyana. "I am not your child." So 
in Campbell's Highland Tales there is an account of a " child not yet a year old, 
which had not spoken or attempted to speak, which suddenly addressed hia 
mother," as they were passing near Glen Odhar, thus : 

" ' Many a dun hummel cow, 

With a calf below her, 

Have I been milking 
In that dun glen yonder. 

Without dog, without man, 

Without woman, without gillie, 

But one man, 

And he hoary.* 

The good woman threw down her child, and ran home." Uthlakanyana's 
mother was much more cool on the exhibition of her child's marvellous power. 

( Vol. /., p. cvii. — See also Grimm's Home Stories. " The Fairy Folk. ' Third 
Tale. * " ) 

17 Uthlakanyana feigns a reason for quitting the home into which he has 
intruded himself, and where he is acceptable to no one but to her who considers 
herself his mother. Other demons are not so accommodating. It is necessary 

E 


yem f Wa ka wa mu zwa um- 
ntwana e tsho njalo, e ti, ka 
zalwe na, e ng' umntwana e ko- 
Aliwe 'zindaba na? Ngi mdala 
kakulu. A ngi si ye wako : no- 
baba lo o naye ka si ye ubaba, 
umuntu nje, umuntu wetu nje ; 
ngokuba mina ngi lalile nje kuwe, 
wena u ng* umfazi wake. A si 
z' ukuAlala ndawo nye nani ; ngi 
za 'kuzihambela nje ngedwa, ngi 
hamba nje, ngi ni shiye, ni ziAla- 
lele kona lapa ndawo nye. Mina 
ngi za 'uhamba um/daba wonke 
nje." Z' opulwa. Wa ti unina, 
" Wo! Mntanami, u tshilo ! wa 
ti, ' zi nga ze zi gukyuke umkguba 
ngapantsi kwembiza ? ' Nembala 
se ku umk^uba wodwa ngapantsi ; 
ku se ku izin/doko zodwa nga- 
pezulu." Wa ti umfana, " Ake 
ngi zi bone." Wa bona, wa zi 
dAla inAloko yena futi, wa zi 
k^eda : wa ti, " Loku inyoni 
zami u zi dAlile, a ngi se zi uku 
ku nika nen/doko lezi zazo, ngo- 
kuba wena u dAle inyama yazo." 
Wa zi k^eda inAloko ke. 


1G 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Uthlakanyana goes to the traps , and gets trapped himself. 


Wa tata intonga yake, wa pu- 
ma, e teta, e ti, " Inyoni zami, hai, 
ukuba zi dAliwe, ngi /deli ngi ti, 
ngi za 'kudAla inyoni zami, e be zi 
pekiwe. Kanti ku za 'kulalwa 
futi, zi ze zi gukgnke umk^uba 
zonke." Wa tula. Wa hamba 
nj e. Wa fika ke ezitiyweni zezimu ; 
wa koka ke inyoni. U te e sa 
koka, la fika izimu. Wa ti, 
" Musa uku ngi bulala," e bajisiwe 
umfana. Izimu li bonile ukuba 
inyoni zi ya kokwa umuntu. Loku 
inomfi la i beka ngezinti pambi 
kwezitiyo, wa banjwa ke i yo 
inomfi. Wa ti, " Musa uku ngi 
tshaya ; ngi za 'ku ku tshela. Ngi 
koke, u ngi Alanze inomfi ; u 
buye nami. Ku nanyoko na?" 
La ti izimu, " U kona." Wa ti 
umfana, " Kepa u ng' onela ni na, 
u nga ngi koki, u ngi Alanze 
inomfi, u buye nami ? Ngi ya 
'kubaba ; a ngi yi 'kuba mnandi ; 
inaf u ngi tshaya nje, a ngi yi 
'kuba mnandi ; ngi ya 'kubaba. 
Ngi Alanze, u buye nami ; u z' u 


He took his walking-stick and 
went out, chiding thus, " It was 
not right that my birds should be 
eaten whilst I was imagining 
that I was going to eat my birds, 
which had been cooked : yet, for- 
sooth, she was going to sleep for 
ever, until all the birds became 
dung." He was silent. He went 
on his journey, and came to the 
traps of a cannibal; so he took 
out the birds. As he was taking 
them out, the cannibal arrived. 
The boy, being caught, said, 
" Don't kill me." The cannibal 
had seen that the birds were 
taken out by someone. There- 
fore he put birdlime on sticks 
in front of the traps, and he was 
caught by the birdlime. He said, 
" Don't beat me, and I will tell 
you. Take me out, and cleanse 
me from the birdlime, and take 
me home with you. Have you not 
a mother?" The cannibal replied, 
" I have a mother." The boy 
said, " Why then do you spoil 
me, and not take me out, and 
cleanse me from the birdlime, and 
take me home with you ? I shall 
be bitter ; I shall not be nice ; if 
you beat me in this way, I shall 
not be nice; I shall be bitter. 
Cleanse me, and take me home 


to devise various plans for the purpose of getting rid of them. In the Danish 
Traditions we find an account of one whom "a shrewd female engaged to drive 
from the house," which she did as follows : — " One day, when he was out in 
the field, she killed a pig, and made a pudding of it, together with the skin and 
hair, which, on his return, she placed before him. As was his custom, he began 
slashing away at it, but as he ate he gradually became thoughtful, and at length 
sat quite still with the knife in his hand, and eyeing the pudding : he then 
exclaimed, ' Pudding with hide, and pudding with hair, pudding with eyes, and 
pudding with bones in it. I have now thrice seen a young wood spring up on 
Tiis lake, but never before did I see such a pudding ! The fiend will stay here 
no longer!' Saying these words, he ran off, and never returned." (Thorpe, 
Op. ext. Vol. II., p. 114:.) Luther suggested a more summary process; he 
recommended such a child, which is said to have " had no human parents," to 
be thrown into the Moldau ; regarding it as a creation of the devil — "a mere 
mass of flesh and blood, without any soul." ( Michelet , Op. ext., p. 325. See 
also p. 326.) 


UHLAKANYANA. 


17 


ngi beke kwenu, ngi ze ngi pekwe 
unyoko ; u ngi beke ng' ome ubu- 
manzi ; u hambe wena, u ngi 
shiye nje ekaya ; ngi nga pekwa u 
kona ; ngi nga mubi ; ngi nge be 
mnandi." 


with you, that you may put me in 
your house, that I may be cooked 
by your mother. Set me there, 
that I may dry; and do you go 
away, and just leave me at your 
home. I cannot be cooked if you 
are there ; I shall be bad ; I 
cannot be nice." 


UtJclakanyana is taken home by the cannibal , and delivered to the 
cannibal's mother. 


La m tata ke, la buya naye 
kanye nazo izinyoni zalo. La 
fika ekaya kunina, la ti, " Marne, 
nantsi inyamazana e b' i dAla 
inyoni zami. Nam Ala ngi i funyene, 
ngi i bambile ngenomfi yami ; i 
te, a ngi i koke, ngi i Alanze ubu- 
manzi benomfi. Ya ti, a ngi nga 
i tshayi ; ya ti, i ya 'kubaba, in#a 
ngi i tshayile. Nga vuma ke, nga 
i Alanza ke, nga i twala ke. Ya 
ti, a ngi namame na ? Nga ti " U 
kona" kuyo inyamazana le. Ya 
ti, i ya 'upekwa u we, ngi nge ko 
mina. Ya ti, i nge be mnandi, 
imca i pekiwe ngi kona. Ngi ya 
vuma ke. U z'ui peke kusasa. 
A i lale nje. Li nomfana wakwabo 
ba vumelana, ba ti, "A i lale." 


Uthlakanyana avoids being boiler 

Kwa sa kusasa, la ti, " Marne, 
nantso ke inyamazana yami" Wa 
ti UAlakanyana, "Ngi tabate, u 
ngi beke pezu kwendAlu, ng* ome, 
ngi Alatshwe ilanga ; " e ti u kona 
e ya 'kubonisa izimu ngalapo li 
tshona ngakona. Wa bekwa ke 
pezulu endAlini. La hamba ke 
nomfana wakwabo ; ba tshona 


So the cannibal took him, and 
went home with him ; he took also 
his birds. On coming home to 
his mother, he said, "Mother, here 
is the animal which was eating my 
birds. I have found him to-day ; I 
caught him with my birdlime. He 
told me to take him out, and 
cleanse him from the birdlime. 
He told me not to beat him. He 
said he should be bitter if I beat 
him. So I assented; I cleansed 
him, and brought him home. He 
asked if I had not a mother 1 I 
told him — I mean this animal here 
— that I had. He said he would 
be cooked by you, when I was 
absent. He said he should not be 
nice, if cooked in my presence. 
So I assent. Do you cook him in 
the morning. Just let him lie 
down to-night." The cannibal and 
a boy, his brother, both assented, 
saying, "Just let him lie down 
to-night." 

by boiling the cannibal's mother. 

In the morning, the cannibal 
said, "Mother, take care of my 
game." Uthlakanyana said, "Take 
me, and put me on the top of the 
hut, that I may dry in the sun's 
rays"; thinking he should then 
be able to see in which direction 
the cannibal would disappear. So 
he was placed on the top of the 
hut. The cannibal and his brother 


18 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngokalo. W' eAla U/dakanyana, 
wa ti, " Mame, u sa lele na ? " 
Wa ti unina wezinra, " Yebo." 
Wa ti UAlakanyana, " Yuka, si 
pekane." Wa ti, " Nami u za 'u 
ngi peka ingcozana; ku za 'ku- 
pekwa ngenkulu imbiza, ngokuba 
ngi za 'kukukumala, ngi i gcwale 
imbiza. Nantsi imbiza enkulu, e 
nga peka mina." Wa ti unina 
wezimu, " Yebo ke, u kyinisile 
wena; ngokuba u ya zazi noku- 
pekwa kwako." Wa ti, "Tata 
ke, u i beke eziko." Wa basa 
UAlakanyana, wa basa ingcozana ; 
wa ti, " Muningi umlilo." Wa ti, 
" Ake si zwe amanzi ukuba a se 
tshisa ini?" Wa fak' isandAla; 
wa ti, " K^a. Ku fanele u ngi 
fake; a ku kgulwe ngami." Wa 
ti "Yebo ke" unina wezimu. 
Warn tata, wa m faka, wa zibe- 
kela; wa tula pakati embizeni. 
Wa ti, " Ng' opule ke." Wa m 
opula. Wa ti, " Yiya ! Ake ku 
nge ku ya baswa. Wa basa 
UAlakanyana ; wa ti, " Ngi w' e- 
zwile amanzi ukuba a ka fudumali. 
Ake ku baswe." Wa basa kakulu ; 
wa lunguza, wa funyana e se bila. 
Wa ti, " Tukulula ke ingubo zako, 
ngokuba kaloku amanzi a se fanele 
ukuba u ngene, ngokuba nami ngi 
ngene e nje. Kodwa wena ; a se 
fudumele kaAle manje." U Ala- 


departed, and disappeared over 
the ridge of the hill. Uthlaka- 
nyana got down, and said, " Mo- 
ther, are you still lying down?" 
The cannibal's mother said, "Yes." 
Uthlakanyana said, " Get up, and 
let us play at boiling each other. 
You will boil me a little, and I 
you. Let the boiling be done in 
the great pot ; for I shall swell out 
very much, and fill the pot. There 
is the great pot which is fit for 
boiling me in." The cannibal's 
mother said, "Yes, surely; you 
say the truth ; for you know your- 
self, and about your being boiled." 
He said, " Take it, then, and put 
it on the fire." Uthlakanyana 
kindled the fire ; he kindled it a 
little, and said, " The fire is abun- 
dant." He said, " Let us just feel 
the water, if it is already hot." 
He put in his hand, and said, 
" Just the thing ! You must put 
me in. Let us begin with me." 
"Yes, surely," said the cannibal's 
mother. She took him, and put 
him in, and put the lid on. He 
was silent in the pot. At length 
he said, "Just take me out." She 
took him out. He said, "Out upon 
it ! Let us just kindle the fire a 
little ." 18 Uthlakanyana made up 
the fire, and said, " I have felt the 
water that it is not warm ; let us 
make up the fire." He made a 
great fire, and looked in, and found 
it boiling. He said to the cannibal's 
mother, "Take off your clothes, 
for the water is now fit for you to 
go in ; for I too went in when it 
was just so : now for you ; it is 
now pleasantly warm." Uthlaka- 


18 Ake ku nge ku ya baswa. — The conjunctive mood of uhinga after ake, 
followed by the present tense of the indicative mood, as here, is used to express 
a wish that something may be done slightly, or for a little time. The following 
are examples : — Ake u nge u ya vula, " Do you open the door a little ; " Ake ngi 
nge ngi ya lima, "Just let me dig a little ; v Ake a nge u ya li bamba, "Just 
let him hold the horse for a little while." 


UIILAKANYANA. 


19 


kanyana wa kyala uku m tukulula. 
Wa ti, " Ngi yeke, ngi zitukulule 
mina ; musa uku ngi k^inela. U 
ngi kginelela ni ? " Wa ti UAla- 
kanyana, " Ku nani na, inara ngi 
ku tukululile, ngi inyamazana 
nje e za 'kudAliwa amadodana ako 
nawe ? Ku nani na, ngi inyama- 
zana nje, e za 'udAliwa amadodana 
ako kanye nawe na ? " Wa m 
faka, wa zibekela. Wa kala, wa 
ti, " Hlakanyana, ng' opule. Nga 
tsha ! " Wa ti, " Kgubo ! Ku 
ka tsbi wena ; ukuba u se u tsliile, 
u nga u nga tsho ukuba so u 
tsbile. Ngi y' ezwa, ngi indoda ; 
imca umuntu e ti, 1 Ngi ya tsha/ 
ka ka tshi ; incca e se e tsbile, ka 
tsho u ya tsha njalo, a tshe ku be 
ukupela." Wa ti, " Hlakanyana, 
ngi ya vutwa." Wa ti " K^a " 
UAlakanyana; wa ti, "Ku ka 
vutwa. Nank' u sa tsho ukuti, u 
ya vutwa. Ngi y' azi inxa umuntu 
e se vutiwe, ka tsho ukuti, ngi se 
ngi vutiwe ; u ya tula nje ukuba 
u se vutiwe." Wa vutwa ke, wa 
tula. Wa ti UAlakanyana, wa ti, 
" Manje ke ngi ya kolwa ukuba u 
vutiwe, ngokuba ku sa tsho manje ; 
manje se u tule ; u kona ngi ti u 
vutiwe ke ; u za 'udAliwa ke ama- 
dodana ako. Yutwa ke. U kona 


nyana began to unfasten her clothes. 
She said, " Leave me alone, that I 
may undress myself; don't urge 
me. Why do you urge me?" 
Uthlakanyana said, " Of what con- 
sequence is it if I have undone your 
things, I who am mere game, which 
is about to be eaten by your sons 
and you? Of what consequence 
is it, I being mere game, which is 
about to be eaten by your sons and 
you ? " He put her in, and put on 
the lid. She cried out, " Uthla- 
kanyana ! take me out ! I am 
scalded to death ! " 19 He said, 
" No, indeed. You are not yet scald- 
ed to death. If you were scalded to 
death, you could not say you were 
scalded to death. I am a man, 
and so understand that if a man 
says, he is scalding to death, he is 
not yet scalded ; if he is scalded, 
he does not say he is scalding ; he 
is scalded, and that is all." She 
said, " Uthlakanyana, I am being 
done." Uthlakanyana said, "No, 
you are not yet done. There, 
you are now saying that you are 
being done. I know, when a 
man has been thoroughly done, 
he does not say constantly, i I am 
already done.' He just says no- 
thing, when he is already done." 
So she was boiled, and said no 
more. Uthlakanyana said, "Now, 
then, I perceive that you are done, 
because you no longer say so now. 
Now you have become silent; that 
is the reason why I think you are 
thoroughly done. You will be 
eaten by your children. Do 
away, then ! I see now you are 


19 One cannot give this idiom, Nga tsha, the full force in an English trans- 
lation. It is the aorist tense, and is used inter jectionally. Its meaning is 
either hyperbolical, to arrest the attention and fix it on some imminent danger, 
as Wa fa! "You are dead ! " or it expresses a sudden, unexpected act, which 
has just been completed, as Sa tsha! "The gun fired." An instance of the 
use of this tense occurs in the first paragraph of this Tale : InTcomo zikababa za 
pela. Uthlakanyana exaggerates ; he says, are devoured : the mother, in 
repeating his words, says, zi ya pda, "are coming to an end," — are being 
devoured. 


20 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


u vutiwe impela manje, ukuba u I boiled indeed, because you are now 
se u tule." 1 silent." 20 

U thlahanyana puts on the clothes of the cannibal's mother , and becomes 
a witness of the cannibal's feast. 


Wa tata ke izingubo, w' ambata 
zonke, wa mkulu ngezingubo lezo. 
Wa lala lapa ku be ku lele isalu- 
kazi, unina wezimu. Ba fika, ba 
ti, " Marne." Wa ti, " We," nge- 
lincane ilizwi njengonina. Wa ti, 
" Ni ngi bizela ni na?" Wa ti, 
" Nantsi inyamazana yenu ; i se 
i kukumele, i se inkulu, imnandi, 
njengoba i be i tsbo. D/da nini 21 
ke ; a ngi zi 'kuvuka mina'. Kade 
ngi i dAla." B' opula ke umkono ; 
ba se be dAla. Wa ti umfana 
wezimu, " Lezi 'zand/da kungati 
ezikama." La ti izimu elikulu, 
"U kuluma njani na? u ya m 
Alolela uma." Wa ti, " Aike ! a 
ngi sa tsho." Ba dAla njalo, ba 
k^eda umkono. B' opula umlenze, 
ba dAla. Wa pinda umfana we- 
zimu, wa ti, " Lolu 'nyawo kungati 
olukama. Noko u te ezandAleni, 
ngi nge tsbo ukuti kungati ezika- 
ma, ngi ya tsbo. Futi ukuti lolu 
'nyawo lungati olwake." La m 
tshaya. Wa pendula UAlakanya- 
na, e lele; wa ti, " Mntanami, Jo 


Utblakanyana then took tbe 
garments of tbe cannibal's motlier, 
and put them all on, and was big 
by means of tbe garments : be then 
lay down where tbe old woman, the 
cannibal's mother, bad lain. The 
cannibals came at length, and said, 
" Mother." Uthlakanyana an- 
swered, " Yes," with a little voice 
like tbe mother. " Why do you 
call me ? There is your game : it 
is now swollen to a great size, and 
is nice, just as he said. Do you 
eat. I shall not get up. I have 
already eaten of it." They drew 
out an arm. They eat. The 
cannibal's boy said, " These hands 
are just like mother's." The elder 
cannibal said, " How are you 
speaking? You are prognosticating 
evil to mother." He replied, 
"No; I withdraw the saying." 
So they eat, and finished the arm. 
They drew out a leg, and eat. 
The cannibal's boy again said, 
"This foot is just like mother's. 
Although you said as regards the 
hands, I might not say they were 
just like mother's, I say it. I say 
again that this foot is just like 
hers." The cannibal beat him. 
Uthlakanyana spoke, still lying 
down, and said, " My child, that 


20 A somewhat similar trick is played with equal success by Maol a Chlio- 
bain, on the Giant's mother. She persuades her to open the sack in which she 
was suspended, to be killed on the Giant's return ; she escapes, and transfers 
the old woman to her place in the sack, and she is killed by her own son. 
(Campbell, Op. cit. Vol. /., p. 255.) So Peggy succeeds in baking the 
cannibal-witch in her own oven, which she had heated for the purpose of 
baking Peggy. ( Grimm's Home Stories. " Hans and Peggy." — See also " The 
Tale of the Shifty Lad," a Highland Uthlakanyana, how he managed to hang 
his master in roguery. ( Campbell, Op. cit. Vol. /., p. 328.) 

21 DAla nini=yidAla ni. 


UHLAKANYAtfA. 


21 


umtakati a nga ngi d/d a yena, 
ngokuba u ti, e d/da inyamazana, 
e be i biza ngami, e i fanisa nami. 
Tula nje, mntanami, d/dana 22 nje 
wena." 


wizard would eat me, for his part ; 
for when he is eating game, he 
calls it by my name, and thinks 
he sees a resemblance to me. Just 
be silent, my child, and go on 
eating." 


Uthlakanyana thinks it is time to be off, and sets off accordingly. 


Wa ti, " Ake ni lunge, ngi ke 
ngi pume, ngi ye 'kutunda ; ngi 
za 'kubuya. Ni /dale, ni d/de 
njalo nina." La ti izimu, lapa e 
semnyango U/dakanyana, la ti, 
" Yebo, lesi 'sitende kungati esake 
umame." Wa finyela U/dakanya- 
na ; w' esaba kaloku ; wa puma 
ngamand/da emnyango ; wa hamba 
ngamandAla ukushiya ind/du ye- 
zimu. Wa k^ala uku zi tukulula 
izingubo ; wa zi vutulula zonke ; 
wa gijima, wa kginisa kakulu. 
Wa bona ukuti, se ngi kude 
manje ; a ba sa yi 'ku ngi funyana. 
Wa memeza, wa ti, "Ni d/da 
unyoko njalo, mazimu ! " 'Ezwa 
amazimu a puma. Wa ti umfana 
wezimu, " Ngi te, kungati izand/da 
lezi ezikama, nonyawo lwake." 
Ba m kajotsha ; wa funyana umfula 
u gcwele. U/dakanyana wa pen- 
duka u/dakulo 23 pezu kwamanzi, 
A fika amazimu ; a funyana unya- 
wo em/dabatini ; a lu bona u/da- 
kulo ; la lu tata, la ti, " U wele." 
La ponsa u/dakulo, la ti, " U te," 
la tsho li ponsa u/dakulo. Kanti 


Uthlakanyana said, "Just get 
out of the way of the door ; I am 
going out ; I shall be back again 
presently. Do you go on eating." 
When Uthlakanyana reached the 
doorway, the elder cannibal said, 
" Surely this heel is like mother's." 
Uthlakanyana drew out his legs ; 
he was afraid now ; he went out 
as fast as he could, and hastened 
to get away from the cannibal's 
house. He began to undo the 
garments ; he slipped them all off, 
and ran 'with all his might. He 
saw at length that he was far 
enough off that they could not 
catch him ; so he shouted, " You 
are eating your mother, all along, 
ye cannibals ! " The cannibals 
heard, and went out. The can- 
nibal's boy said, " I said, these are 
like mother's hands and her foot." 
They ran after him. U thlakanyana 
came to a swollen river, and 
changed himself into a weeding- 
stick on its banks. The cannibals 
came, and found his footprints on 
the ground ; and saw too the weed- 
ing-stick. The cannibal took it 
up, and said, " He has got across." 
He threw the weeding-stick, say- 
ing " He did thus," throwing the 
stick as he spoke. However, it 


22 D/dana =yidAla. 

23 Uhlakulo . — An old fashioned wooden pick, which is gradually giving 
place to iron. It is made of hard wood, carved to somewhat the shape of a 
hand, and hardened by placing the edge in hot ashes. It is now used by old 
people, or by those who are too weak to use the heavier iron tool. The natives 
use it stooping. It is about a foot and a half long. It is sometimes carved 
into the shape of a hand at each end. 


22 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


u ye; u fike, wa penduka uAla- 
kulo. Wa tokoza ukuba 'eme 
ngapetsheya ; wa ti, " Na ngi 
weza ! " A ti, " Ah ! kanti u ye 
uAlakulo, loku si ti luAlakulo 
nje." A buya ke. 


was Uthlakanyana ; on coming 
to the river, he had turned into 
a stick. He was happy when 
he stood on the other side, and 
said, "You put me across ! " They 
said, "Oh, it was he, forsooth, 
who was the stick, when we 
thought it was a mere stick." So 
they turned back. 


Uthlakanyana circumvents a hare , and gets a dinner and a whistle. 


Wa wela ke ; wa hamba : wa 
fumana umvundAla ; wa ti, " Mvu- 
ndAla, woza lapa, ngi ku tshele 
indaba." Wa t' umvundAla, 
" K</a ! a ngi funi ukuAlangana 
nawe." Wa ti, " Ngi za 'ku ku 
tshela, XJ Alakanyana indaba e be 
si z' enza nozimu 24 ngapetsheya 
kwomfula." Wa kccwaya njalo 
umvundAla. Wa sondela UAla- 
kanyana ; wa u bamba umvu- 
nd/da ; wa u /doma elutini ; wa u 
Aluta uboya ; wa bas' umlilo ; wa 
w osa ; wa u d/da : wa baz' i- 
tambo ; wa 1' enz' ivenge. Wa 
hamba ke, wa hamba ke. 


Thus he passed over the river, 
and went on his way : he fell in 
with a hare, and said, " Hare, come 
here, and I will tell you a tale." 
The hare said, "No. I do not 
wish to have anything to do with 
you." He replied, " I will tell 
you some tales about the business 
which I Uthlakanyana have had 
with Mr. Cannibal, on the other 
side the river." The hare still 
avoided him. At length he got 
nearer and nearer, and caught hold 
of the hare. He impaled him on 
a stick, and plucked off the hair, 25 
and lighted a fire, and roasted and 
eat him. He carved one of the 
bones, and made a whistle. And 
went on his way. 


U thlakanyana is circumvented by an iguana , and loses his whistle. 


Wa funyana ukscamu e semtini 
pezulu : wa ti, " Ah ! sa ku bona, 
Alakanyana." Wa ti, " Yebo, 
ngi bona wena, kccamu." Wa ti 
ukajamu, "Ngi boleke ke ivenge 
lako ; ngi ke ngi zwe ukuba li ya 
teta ini na ?" Wa ti UAlakanyana, 


He fell in with an iguana, 
high up in a tree : he said to 
him, " Good morning, Uthla- 
kanyana." He said, " I thank 
you ; good morning to you, igua- 
na." The iguana said, " Lend me 
your whistle, that I may just hear 
if it will sound." Uthlakanyana 


24 Nozimu . — Uthlakanyana left the word izimu, "a cannibal," and used 
Uzimu, a proper name. Had he spoken of having had anything to do with a 
cannibal, the hare might have been afraid that he was a cannibal's agent : but 
when he spoke of Uzimu, the hare, supposing him to speak of a man so called, 
would be likely to listen willingly to his tale. 

25 The natives do not skin hares ; they pluck them. 


tjhlakanyana. 


23 


" Kgabo ! a ngi naku ku bo- 
leka ivenge lami. A ngi tandi." 
Wa ti, " Ngi ya 'kubuya, ngi ku 
nike." Wa ti, " Puma ke esizi- 
beni (ngokuba umuti u m' esizi- 
beni ;) " woza lapa elubala ; ngi 
y' esaba esizibeni. Ngi ti, imbande 
yami u nga ze u ngene nayo esizi- 
beni, ngokuba u ng' umuntu o 
Alala esizibeni." Wa puma ke wa 
ya elubala. Wa m boleka ke j wa 
li tshaya ke ivenge. Wa ti, 
"Wo! li ya teta ivenge lako. A 
u ngi boleke, ngi ze ke ngi li 
tshaye na ngomso." Wa ti UAla- 
kanyana, " Kga ! li lete. Ngi se 
ngi tanda ukuliamba manje." Wa 
ti, " K<?a ! u so ngi bolekile." 
Wati, " Leti ngamandAla." Wa 
tukutela UAlakanyana ; wa m 
bamba ukccamu ; wa ti, " Leti." 
Wa tshaywa ke UAlakanyana 
ngomsila ; wa tshaywa kakulu 
ngomsila ; w' ezwa ubuAlungu ka- 
kulu ; wa i shiya imbande yake ; 
wa ngena esizibeni ukramu nayo 
imbande kaAlakanyana. 


U thlakanyana steals some bread , 

Wa hamba ke UAlakanyana, wa 
ya kwenye indawo. Wa fumana 
ku bekwe isinkwa sekregu ; wa si 
tata, wa baleka naso. La ti ikce- 
gu, uba li m bone, " Beka isinkwa 
sarni, Alakanyana." Wa e se gijima 
e ngena esiningweni. La fika ke 
ik.regu, la faka isandAla, la m 
bamba. Wa ti UAlakanyana, 
" He, he ! wa bamba impande." 
La m yeka, la bamba futi ; la 
bamba impande. Wa e se ti ke 
UAlakanyana, e kala, " Maye ! 


said, " No indeed ! I cannot lend 
you my whistle. I don't like to." 
The iguana said, " I will give it 
back to you again." He said, 
" Come away then from the pool ; " 
(for the tree was standing over a 
pool of the river ;) " and come here 
into the open country ; I am afraid 
near a pool. I say, you might run 
into the pool with my flute, for 
you are a person that lives in deep 
water." So the iguana came away, 
and went to the open country. 
Uthlakanyana lent him the whistle. 
He played on it, and said, " My ! 
your whistle sounds. Just lend it 
to me, that I may play it again 
to-morrow." Uthlakanyana said, 
" No ! bring it to me. I now 
want to be off." The iguana said, 
" No ! you have now lent it to 
me." He said, " Bring it directly." 
Uthlakanyana was angry ; he laid 
hold of the iguana, and said, 
" Give it up." But the iguana 
smote Uthlakanyana with his tail ; 
he hit him very hard, and he felt a 
great deal of pain, and let go his 
flute ; and the iguana went away 
into the deep water with Uthla- 
kanyana's whistle. 

and escapes without punishment. 

So Uthlakanyana went on his 
way to another place. He found 
some bread belonging to an old 
man hid away ; he took it, and 
ran away with it. When the old 
man saw him, he said, " Put down 
my bread, Uthlakanyana." But 
he ran into a snake's hole. The 
old man came, and put in his hand, 
and caught hold of him. Uthla- 
kanyana said, " Ha, ha ! you 
caught hold of a root." He left 
hold of him, and caught hold 
again ; this time he caught hold of 
a root. Then Uthlakanyana said, 


F 


24 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


maye ! wa ngi bulala ! " 26 La kgi- 
nisa kakulu, la za la katala, li 
bamba impande njalo : la za 1' e- 
muka. Wa si d/da ke isinkwa, 
wa si kg'eda ; wa puma, wa hamba. 


crying, "My ! my ! you have killed 
me ! " The old man pulled with 
all his might, until he was tired ; 
he pulling the root all the time. 
At length he went away. Uthla- 
kanyana eat all the bread, and 
then went on his way. 


Uthlakanyana becomes the servant of a leopard. 


Wa hamba ke U/dakanyana : 
wa funyana ingwe, i zalele ; i iige 
ko yona, abantwana be bodwa. 
Wa /Jala kubo abantwana. Ya 
za ya fika ingwe, i pete impunzi. 
Ya kukumala ; ya tukutela ukuba 
i m bone ; ya tukutela kakulu ; 
ya i beka pantsi impunzi ; ya 
hamba ya ya kuye. U/dakanyana 
wa ti, " Nkosi yami, musa uku- 
tukutela. U inkosi impela wena. 
Ngi za 'ku/dala nabantwana bako, 
u yozingela wena ; ngi ya 'ku ba 
londa, u hambile, u ye 'kuzingela. 
Ngi za 'kwaka ind/du en/de, u nga 
lali lapa pantsi kwelitshe naba- 
ntwana bako. Ngi za 'ku y aka 
ka/de, ngi i fulele ind/du yako." 
Ya ti, " Yebo ke ; ngi ya vuma, 
inaf u za 'kusala nabantwana bami, 
u ba londe, ngi hambile. Ngi se 
ngi ya vuma ke." 


Uthlakanyana went on his way, 
and fell in with a leopard which 
had cubs ; she, however, was not 
at home, but only the children. 
He staid with the children. At 
length the leopard came, carrying 
a buck. She swelled herself out, 
and was angry when she saw him ; 
she was very angry ; she put down 
the buck, and went towards him. 
Uthlakanyana said, " My lord, 
dont be angry. You are a lord 
indeed, you. I am going to stay 
with your children ; you will go 
to hunt ; and I will take care of 
them when you have gone to hunt. 
I shall build a beautiful house, that 
you may not lie here at the foot of 
a rock with your children. I shall 
build your house well, and thatch 
it." The leopard said, "Very 
well then ; I agree if you will stay 
with the children, and take care 
of them when I have gone out. 
Now then I agree." 


U thlakanyana gives the leopard a lesson in suckling. 


Wa ti U/dakanyana lapo ke, 
"Ngi za 'ku ku nikela abantwana, 
u ba ncelise ngabanye." Wa i 
nikela ke umntwana. Ya ti, " Leti 
nomunye umntwana wami. Musa 
ukuti ' K' anyise yedwa.' A b' a- 
nyise bobabili, omunye a nga kali." 


Uthlakanyana then said, " I 
will give you the children, that 
you may suckle them one by one." 
So he gave her one child. She 
said, " Bring my other child also. 
Don't say, let one suck by itself. 
Let them both suck together, lest 
the other cry." Uthlakanyana 


26 Wa bamba impande. Wa ngi bulala . — Examples of the aorist used inter- 
jectionally. We cannot express them in an English translation. But somewhat 
of the meaning may be gained by comparing them with such expressions as 
' ' Caught ! " when a policeman puts his hand suddenly on a prisoner. Or as 
when a sportsman has made a successful shot, and says, " Dead ! " " Hit ! " 
" Killed ! " 


UHLAKANYANA. 


25 


Wa ti UAlakanyana, "Kg-abo! 
Ake w anyise lowo kukgala, and' 
uba ngi ku nike omunye, lowo e 
se e buyele kumi." Ya ti, " Kga- 
bo. A ng' enzi njalo mina uku ba 
ncelisa kwami. Musa uku ngi 
fundisa loko uku ba ncelisa abanta 
bami. Ba lete kanye nje bobabili." 
Wa ti UAlakanyana, "Woza, u 
lete lowo e ngi ku nike kukgala." 
Ya za ya m nika owokukgala ; wa 
i nikela ke omunye. Ya ti, " Pu- 
ma manje lapo, u ze lapa, u ze 
'kuAlinza impunzi yami, u peke 
inyama njengokutsbo kwako, ngo- 
kuba u te, u za 'upeka." Wa suka 
ke, wa Alinza, wa peka. Ya dAla 
ke ingwe nabantwana bayo. Kwa 
lalwa : kwa vukwa kusasa. 


said, "Not at all ! Just suckle 
that one first, and I will give 
you the other when that one has 
come back to me." She said, " By 
no means. I do not do in that 
way, for my part, when I nurse 
them. Don't teach me the suck- 
ling of my children. Just bring 
them both together." Uthla- 
kanyana said, " Come, hand over 
that one which I gave you first." 
At length she gave him back the 
first ; and then he gave her the 
other. She said, " Now come out 
from there, and come to me, and 
skin my buck, and cook its flesh, 
according to your word, for you 
said you would cook." So he went, 
and skinned the buck, and boiled 
it. The leopard eat, and her little 
ones. They went to sleep. They 
woke in the morning. 


Uthlakanyana eats the leopard and her cubs. 


Ya ti, " Sala ke, u londe. Na- 
mpo ke abantwana 27 bami; u ba 
gcine ke." Way aka indAlu, wa 
i kgeda ; wa y enza umnyango, wa 
mncinane kakulu ; w' emba umgodi 
omude, wa ya, wa puma kude, 
intunja yawo umgodi ; wa nguma 
imikonto yake ya mine. Ya fika 
ingwe ; ya fika nempunzi ; ya ti, 
" Hlakanyana ! " Wa ti, " Hi ! " 


The leopard said, " Stay here, 
and keep things safe. I trust my 
children to you ; preserve them." 
Uthlakanyana built a house, and 
finished it : he made it with a very 
small doorway ; and he dug a long 
burrow, which had a distant outlet, 
and cut off the hafts of four assagais. 
The leopard arrived ; she brought 
a buck with her ; she said, 
" Uthlakanyana ! " He answered, 
" Ay, ay ! " Uthlakanyana had 


27 Nampo Tee abantwana, comp. Mame, nantso ke inyamazana yami, p. 17. 
— The demonstrative adverbs in o always point to something with which the 
person addressed has some concern. Nampo abantwana, "there are the 
children," is an answer to a question, and implies that they are near the 
enquirer, though he does not see them. Nampo ke abantwana, ' ' there, then, are 
the children," implies that some understanding has been previously entered into 
with the person addressed, and that they are now entrusted to his care, that he 
may act towards them in accordance with the previous understanding. Thus a 
man pointing out to another a horse running away, if near at hand, he says, 
Nanti li baleka, "there it is running away." If it is at a considerable distance, 
he says, Nantiya li baleka. But if the owner asks, Li pi ihashi lami na? 
" where is my horse ? " the answer would be, Nanto li baleka. And if he had 
been warned beforehand that it would run away, Nanto ke li baleka. 


2G 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


wa sabela. Umntwana wa be e 
se in dAlile omunye ; wa e se 
munye umntwana. Ya ti, " Leti 
ke abantwana bami. " Wa i nika 
ke ingwe ; ya m anyisa. Ya ti, 
" Leti omunye." Wa ti, "Leti 
lowo ke." Ya ti, " Ai ; leti boba- 
bili." W' al' Uklakanyana, wa ti, 
" Wo k' u lete lowo kuk^ala, and' 
uba ngi ku nike lo." Yam nikela 
ingwe. Wa buya wa pindelisela 
lowo ; ngokuba umntwana u se 
emunye. Ya ti, " Puma ke, u ze 
'uAlinza inyamazana." Wa puma 
ke, wa i Alinza, wa i peka. Ya 
dAla ke ingwe nomntwana. Wa 
ngena. Ya ti yona, " Nami ngi 
za 'ungena manje." Wa ti UAla- 
kanyana, " Ngena ke manje." Ya 
ngena. Kwa k^ina ukungena ; 
ngokuba UAlakanyana umnyango 
u w enzile ngobuAlakani bake, 
ngokukumbula ukuba umntwana 
'eza 'ku mu dAla, ingwe i tukutele 
kakulu ; wa ti, " U kona i ya 'ku- 
minyana, i nga ngeni kaAle; u 
kona i ya 'kuti i sa minyene, ngi 
be ngi hamba ngapantsi emgodini 
omude ; u kona i ya 'kuti i fika, 
ngi be se ngi kude nendAlu." 
Wa ngena ke emgodini o nga- 
pakati kwend/du leyo : ya se i 
ngena ingwe. Ya ngena ke, ya 
funyana umntwana emunye. Ya 
ti, " Wo ! kanti U/dakanyana 
lo, — kanti u nje ! Umntanami 
u pi 1 U mu d/dile." Ya ngena 
emgodini ke, lapa e ngene kona, 
i ti, i ya 'kupuma ngalapaya ; 
wa e se pume kuk^ala, e se 
buya e ngena futi, w' embela 
imikonto emnyango. Ya b' i fika 
kona ngasemnyango, ya Alatshwa 
imikonto yomine ; ya fa. Wa 


now eaten one of the cubs ; there 
was but one left. She said, " Just 
bring me my children." So he 
gave it her, and she suckled 
it. She said, " Bring me the 
other." He replied, " Hand back 
that one." She said, "No; bring 
them both." Uthlakanyana re- 
fused, and said, " Just hand back 
that one first, and then I will give 
you this." The leopard gave it 
him. He gave it back to her again. 
For now there was but one 
child. She said, " Come out now, 
and skin the buck." So he went 
out, and skinned it, and cooked it. 
The leopard eat and her little one. 
Uthlakanyana went into the house. 
The leopard said, " I too shall go 
in now." Uthlakanyana said, 
" Come in then." She went in. 
It was hard to go in ; for Uthla- 
kanyana had cunningly contrived 
the doorway, remembering that he 
intended to eat the cub, and the 
leopard would be very angry ; he 
said, " She will be thus com- 
pressed, and not easily enter ; 
thus, whilst she is squeezing in, 
I shall go down into the long 
hole ; and thus, when she gets 
in, I shall be far from the house." 
So he went into the hole which was 
in the house. And the leopard 
entered. When she entered, she 
found only one child. She said, 
" Dear me ! so then this Uthla- 
kanyana, — so then he is a fellow 
of this kind ! Where is my child ? 
He has eaten it." She went into 
the hole, into which he had gone, 
intending to get out the other 
end ; Uthlakanyana had got out 
first, and returned to the house, 
and fixed his assagais in the earth 
at the doorway. When she came 
to the doorway, she was pierced 
by the four assagais, and died. 
Uthlakanyana came to her when 


UHLAKANYANA. 


27 


fika i s' i file ; wa jabula ; wa tata 
umntwana, wa m bulala wengwe. 
Wa Alala ke, wa clAla ingwe nom- 
ntwana wayo, wa k^eda ; wa twala 
umlenze, wa hamba, w' emuka, 
ngokuba e be ng' umuntu o nga 
Alali ndawo nye. 


she was dead ; he was happy ; he 
took and killed the leopard's child. 
So he staid and eat up the leopard 
and her child ; he took, however, 
one leg, and went on his travels, 
for he was a man that did not stay 
in one place. 


[In another version of the Tale, this story is told of a doe, which 
had " thirteen children." Uthlakanyana engages himself as nurse, and 
eats the kids one after another in thirteen days by a similar stratagem. 


The story continues thus : — 

Wa e se baleka UAlakanvana. 
Ya m kccotsha impunzi. UAla- 
kanyana wa fumanisa ugcwele um- 
fula. Wa fika wa penduka imbo- 
kondo. Impunzi ya i tata imbo- 
kondo, ya i ponsa ngapetsheya 
kwomfula, ya ti, "Wo! uma ku 
be u yena lo, nga se ngi m bulala 
manje." Wa fika UAlakanyana, 
wa ti, "Wa ngi ponsa mina, Ala- 
kanyana, Bogcololo, mina, maAla- 
b'-indod'-i-s'-emi." 


Then Uthlakanyana fled. The 
doe pursued. Uthlakanyana came 
to a full river. On his arrival he 
turned into an upper millstone . 28 
The doe took it up, and threw it 
across the river , 29 saying, " Oh ! if 
this were he, I would now kill 
him." When Uthlakanyana reach- 
ed the other side, he said, " You 
threw me, Uthlakanyana, Bogco- 
lolo, me, 'Mathlab'-indod'-i-s'-emi."] 


U thlahanyana falls in with a cannibal , whom he gets into trouble , and 

leaves to die. 


E sa hamba, wa Alangana ne- 
zimu. La ti izimu, la ti, "Nga 
ku bona, Alakanyana." Wa ti 
U Alakanyana, "Ngi bona wena, 
malume wami." La ti izimu, 
"Nga ku bona, mfana kadade 
wetu." Wa ti, " Ngi bona wena, 
malume wami." Wa ti, "Woza 
lapa, ngi ku tshele indaba e be si 
z' enza nongwe ngemva lapa ; woza 
lapa ngi ze 'ku ku tshela indaba e 
be si z' enza nongwe." La ti, 
" Yebo ke." Wa ti, " Ake u d/de ; 
nantsi inyama." La bonga izimu, 


On his journey he fell in with 
a cannibal. The cannibal said, 
" Good morning, Uthlakanyana." 
Uthlakanyana replied, " Good 
morning to you, my uncle." The 
cannibal said, " Good morning 
to you, child of my sister." 
Uthlakanyana replied, " Good 
morning to you, my uncle." He 
said, " Come here, and I will 
tell you a business I and Mrs. 
Leopard have had together behind 
here ; come here, and I will tell 
you a business I and Mrs. Leopard 
have had together." The cannibal 
said, " Certainly." Uthlakanyana 
said, "Just eat; here is some 


28 The native women use two stones in grinding — the upper a hard pebble ; 
the lower a large flat stone, which is soft, and somewhat hollowed. The upper 
is made to perform about a half revolution backwards and forwards in the 
hollow of the lower ; and the meal is collected in front on a mat. 

29 This is related of Litaolane in the Basuto Legend of Kammapa. ( Casalis ' 
Basutos, p. 349 . ) 


28 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


la ti, " Mfana kadade, u ngi sizile ; 
ngi be se ngi lambile kakulu ka- 
kulu." La dAla ke izimu, naye e 
dAia. Kwa vela izinkomo 'zimbili 
— enye im/dope, enye imnyama. 
Za bonwa lizimu ; la ti, " Nanziya 
inkomo zami." Wa ti U/dakanya- 
na, " Yami emnyama." La ti izi- 
mu, " Yami em/dope, em/dope na 
ngapakati." Ba hamba ke, ba ya 
kuzo, ba z' ek^ela. Wa ti U/da- 
kanyana, " Malume, a kw akiwe 
indAlu." La ti izimu, " U k^ini- 
sile ; kona si za 'u/dala ka/de, si 
d/de inkomo zetu." Ya pangiswa 
ke ind/du, y' akiwa ; kw' epiwa 
utshani. Wa ti U/dakanyana, 
" Ake ku /dinzwe eyako, malume 
wami, em/dope kukgala, na nga- 
pakati ; si ke si bone ukuba i 
njalo ke na, njengokuba u tsliilo ; 
wa ti, imAlope na pakati." La 
viima izimu ; la ti, " Yebo." Ya 
bulawa ke inkomo ; ya Alinzwa 
ke ; ba i fumana y ondile. Wa ti 
U/dakanyana, " A ngi i d/di mina 
e nje. Ake ku banjwe eyami." 
La vuma izimu. Ya bulawa ; ya 
funyanwa i nonile kakulu. La ti 
izimu, " Mfana kadade, u Alakani- 
pile impela ; ngokuba u Ale 31 wa i 
bona wena, ukuba i nonile eyako 
le." Wa ti U/dakanyana, " A ku 
fulelwe indMu ke manje ; and' uba 
si dAle ukud/da kwetu. Izulu u 
ya li bona, ukuba si za 'uneta." 
La ti izimu, " U kginisile, mfana 
kadade ; u indoda impela, lok' u ti 
a si fulele ind/du, ngokuba si za 


' meat." The cannibal thanked him, 
and said, " Child of my sister, you 
have helped me ; I was very, very 
hungry." The cannibal eat, and 
Uthlakanyana eat with him. Two 
cows made their appearance — one 
white, the other black. They 
were seen by the cannibal ; he 
said, " There are my cows." Uthla- 
kanyana said, " The black one is 
mine." The cannibal said, " The 
white one is mine, which is white 30 
also inside." They went on to 
them, and turned them back. 
Uthlakanyana said, " Uncle, let a 
house be built." The cannibal 
said, "You say well ; then we 
shall live comfortably, and eat our 
cattle." The house was hastily 
built, and the grass gathered. 
Uthlakanyana said, " Let your 
cow be killed first, my uncle, 
which is white outside and in, that 
we may just see if it is, as you 
said, white also inside." The can- 
nibal assented. So the cow was 
killed, and skinned ; they found it 
lean. Uthlakanyana said, " I don't 
eat, for my part, a thing like this. 
Let mine be caught." The cannibal 
assented. It was killed, and found 
to be very fat. The cannibal 

said, " Child of my sister, you 
are wise indeed, for you saw 
at a glance that this cow of 
yours was fat." Uthlakanyana 

said, " Let the house be thatched 
now ; then we can eat our meat. 
You see the sky, that we shall get 
wet." The cannibal said, " You 
are right, child of my sister ; you 
are a man indeed, in saying let us 
thatch the house, for we shall get 


30 White, i.e., fat. 

31 U hie. — This verbis often used with no very definite meaning, at least, 
such as we can translate. And often it can be omitted without affecting the 
sense even to the apprehension of a native. It is here translated " at a glance," 
or forthwith, or at first. It implies that what the other saw and said, without 
any one else at the time seeing, has turned out to be correct. U vele wa i bona 
is also used, "You saw it at the first." 


UHLAKANYANA. 


29 


'uneta." Wa ti U/dakanyana, 
" Ak' w enze ke wena; mina ngi 
za 'kungena ngapakati, ngi ku /do- 
mele end/dini." L' enyuka izimu. 
Inwele zalo za zinde kakulu ka- 
kulu. Wa ngena ngapakati ; wa 
li Alomela ke. Inwele wa z' akela 
kona, e tekeleza, e kginisa inwele 
zezimu kakulu; wa u loku e zi 
tekelezela njalo, e z' akela njalo, e 
zi kcapuna kakulu, e kginisa uku- 
ba ku ze ku kgine kona end/dini. 
Wa bona ukuba ziningi inwele lezi, 
a li se nakweAla pezulu, in#a 
ngi puma ngapakati kwendAlu. 
U/dakanyana, ukupuma kwake, 
wa y' eziko, lapa ku pekiwe kona 
ibele lenkomo. W' opula ; wa 
beka esitebeni ; wa tata umkonto ; 
wa sika ; wa funda. La ti izimu, 
" W enza ni, mnta kadade ? Ake 
u ze, si k^ede ind/du ; and' uba si 
kw enze loko ; si za 'ku kw enza 
nawe." Wa ti U/dakanyana, 
" Ye/da ke. A ngi se nako ukuza 
ngapakati kwend/du. Ku pelile 
ukufulela." La ti izimu, " Yebo 
ke." La ti, li y' esuka, kwa k^ina 
ukusuka. La kala, la ti, " Mfana 
kadade, w enze njani na ukufulela 
kwako ? " Wa ti U/dakanyana, 
" Bonisa wena. Mina ngi fulele 
ka/de; ngokuba umsindo a u zi 
'kuba-ko kwimi ; se ngi za 'kud/da 
ka/de ; ngi nga sa bangi namuntu, 


wet." Uthlakanyana said, " Do 
you do it then ; I will go inside, 
and push the thatching-needle for 
you, in the house." The can- 
nibal went up. His hair was 
very, very long. Uthlakanyana 
went inside, and pushed the 
needle for him. He thatched in 
the hair of the cannibal, tying 
it very tightly ; he knotted it into 
the thatch constantly, taking it by 
separate locks and fastening it 
firmly, that it might be tightly 
fastened to the house. 32 He saw 
that the hair (thus fastened in) 
was enough, and that the cannibal 
could not get down, if he should 
go outside. When he was out- 
side Uthlakanyana went to the 
fire, where the udder of the cow 
was boiled. He took it out, and 
placed it on an eating-mat ; he 
took an assagai, and cut, and filled 
his mouth. The cannibal said, 

" What are you about, child of my 
sister 1 Let us just finish the 
house ; afterwards we can do that ; 
we will do it together." Uthla- 
kanyana replied, " Come down 
then. I cannot go into the house 
any more. The thatching is 

finished." The cannibal assented. 
When he thought he was going to 
quit the house, he was unable to 
quit it. He cried out, saying, 
" Child of my sister, how haye 
you managed your thatching 1 " 
Uthlakanyana said, " See to it 
yourself. I have thatched well, 
for I shall not have any dis- 
pute. Now I am about to eat 
in peace ; I no longer dispute 


32 In the Basuto Legend of the Little Hare, the hare has entered into an 
alliance with the lion, but having been ill-treated by the latter, determines to be 
avenged. " My father," said he to the lion, " we are exposed to the rain and 
hail ; let us build a hut." The lion, too lazy to work, left it to the hare to do, 
and the " wily runner " took the lion's tail, and interwove it so cleverly into the 
stakes and reeds of the hut that it remained there confined for ever, and the 
hare had the pleasure of seeing his rival die of hunger and thirst. ( Casalis > 
Basutos, p. 354:.) 


30 


TZINGANEKWANE. 


ngokuba se ngi ngedwa enkomeni 
yami." Wa ti, " U b' nza 'uti ni, 
loku eyako i zakcile, a i nonile nje. 
Y e/da ngamandAla ako o kwele 
ngawo. A ngi nako ukuza 'ku- 
sombulula." Wa sika enyameni 
emAlope. Wa ti, " Mina ke." La 
ti, " Wo lete 33 ke. Kwela ke, u 
lete lapa, mfana kadade. Ngi 
size ; u ngi tukulule, ngi ze lapo 
kuwe. A ngi yi 'ku w enza um- 
sindo. Ngi za 'kupiwa nguwe; 
ngokuba inkomo eyami ngi i bonile 
ukuba y ondile ; inkomo e nonile 
eyako. Ubani na o wa ka wa 
nomsindo entweni yomuntu, ku 
nge yake ? " La fika izulu nama- 
tshe, nemibane. Wa tuta UAla- 
kanyana, wa tutela end/ilini konke 
oku inyam a, wa Alala endAlini. 
Wa basa. La fika izulu namatshe 
nemvula. La kala izimu pezu 
kwendAlu ; la tshay wa ngamatshe ; 
la fela kona pezulu. La sa izulu. 
Wa puma UAlakanyana, wa ti, 
" Malume, ye/da ke, u ze lapa. 
Li se li sile izulu. A li sa ni ; 
nesikgoto a si se ko, nokubaneka a 
ku se ko. U tulele ni na ? " 


Wa i d/da ke inkomo yedwa, 
wa ze wa i kgeda. Wa hamba ke. 


with anybody, for I am How alone 
with my cow." He continued, 
" What would you have said, since 
yours is thin, and has no fat at 
all? Come down by your own 
strength with which you went up. 
I cannot come and undo you." 
And he cut into the fat meat, and 
said, " Take this." The cannibal 
said, " Bring it at once then. 
Mount, and bring it to me, child of 
my sister. Help me; undo me, 
that I may come to you. I am not 
going to make a noise. You shall 
give me ; for I have seen that my 
cow is lean ; the fat one is yours. 
Whoever made a dispute about 
the property of another man, to 
which he had no right?" The 
sky came with hailstones and 
lightning. 'Uthlakanyana took all 
the meat into the house ; he staid 
in the house, and lit a fire. It 
hailed and rained. The cannibal 
cried on the top of the house ; he 
was struck with the hailstones, 
and died there on the house. It 
cleared. XJthlakanyana went out, 
and said, " Uncle, just come 
down, and come to me. It has 
become clear. It no longer rains, 
and there is no more hail, neither 
is there any more lightning. Why 
are you silent ? " 

So Uthlakanyana eat his cow 
alone, until he had finished it. He 
then went on his way. 


Uthlakanyana meets a cannibal , who will not trust him. 


Wa Alangana nelinye izimu, li 
pete isigubu esikulu. Wa ti, 
" Malume." La ti, " Ngi uma- 
lume wako ngani na?" Wa ti, 
" Ku ng' azi na ? " La ti, " A ngi 
kw azi mina." Wa ti, "K^abo! 


He met another cannibal, carry- 
ing a large musical calabash. ITe 
said, " Uncle ! " The cannibal 
said, " How am I your uncle ! " 
He said, " Don't you know ? " 
The cannibal replied, " I don't 
know, for my part. ' ' U thlakanyan a 


83 Wo lete is a paulo-post future imperative. It implies that a thing is 
required to be done at once. Wo leta is indefinite, applying to any future time. 


UHLAKANYANA. 


31 


U umalume impela." La ti izimu, 
" A ngi bu tancli lobo 'buk<?ili. 
Ngi ya kw azi wena, ukuba u 
UAlakanyana. A ngi koAliwa 
mina. Ngi indoda. Tula nje. 
A ngi yi 'kuza nga vuma 34 ukuba 
u ng' owodade wetu." Wa ti, 
"Kgu? Ngi boleke isigubu lesi." 
L' ala izimu, la ti, " K^a ! A ngi 
nakuAlangana nawe impela. " Wa 
li dela. 


said, "You don't mean it ! You 
are my uncle indeed." The 
cannibal said, " I do not like that 
cunning of yours. I know you ; 
you are Uthlakanyana. I am not 
deceived, for my part. I am 
a man. Just hold your tongue. 
I shall never admit that you are 
my sister's child." He said, " No ? 
Lend me this calabash." The can- 
nibal refused, saying, " No ! I 
can have no communication with 
you whatever ! " Uthlakanyana 
left him. 


Uthlakanyana makes the cannibal who would not trust him the means 
of frightening another cannibal. 


Wa hamba ; wa fumana elinye 
izimu ; wa fumana li sendAlini. 
Wa ngena. La ti, " U vela pi 
11a ? " Wa ti, "Ngi vela ngalapa. 
Be ngi nozimu, umalume wami; 
nawe u umalume wami." Kanti 
li ya landela Iona lelo a Alangene 
nalo, 1 ' ala nesigubu. La ti leli a 
li funyene endAlini, la ti, "A si 
shuke ingubo yami,mfana kadade." 
Ba i shuka ke. S' ezwakala isi- 
gubu ; sa ti bu kakulu. Wa 
puma UAlakanyana, wa ti, " U ya 
i zwa na le 'ndaba ? " La ti, "I 
pi ke?" Wa ti, "Nantsi pa- 
nd/de." La puma izimu, la lalela ; 
la si zwa isigubu si teta kakulu. 
La ngena, la ti, "I shuke, si i 
shuke." La k^inisa ; kwa kona 
umsindo wokuteta kwesikumba. 
Sa fundekela kakulu. Kwa ti um- 
sindo wa fika u namapika ka- 


Ile went on his way, and found 
another cannibal in a house. He 
went in. The cannibal said, 
" Whence come you ? " He re- 
plied, " I came from yonder. I 
was with Mr. Cannibal, my uncle ; 
and you, too, are my uncle." 
However, the cannibal he had met, 
who refused to lend him the 
calabash, was following. The 
one he found in the house said, 
" Let us bray my skin, child 
of my sister." So they brayed 
the skin. The calabash sounded 
" Boo " very loudly. Uthlaka- 
nyana ran out, and said, " l)o you 
hear this?" The cannibal said, 
" Where ? " He said, " Here out- 
side." The cannibal went out, and 
listened ; he heard the calabash 
sounding very loudly. He went 
in again, and said, " Bray the skin, 
and I will bray it too." He 
worked hard at it ; there arose a 
great noise from braying the skin. 
The calabash resounded exceed- 
ingly ; and now the sound came 


34 A ngi yi ' kuza nga vuma . — The aorist after the future in the negative, is 
the strongest mode of expressing a negation. It may be rendered, as here, by 
"never," " I will never allow ; " lit., " I will never come I allowed." 


G 


32 


IZmGANEKWANE. 


loku. Wa.ti UAlakanyana, " A- 
ngiti u te, a ku ko umsindo na 
pandAle % U s' u fika namapika 
ngani ? " Sa tet' eduze manje. 
Ba puma bobabili ; ba baleka bo- 
babili. Wa vela umnikaziso isi- 
gubu. Kwa ti izimu, 1' ema kwenye 
intaba, U/dakanyana w' ema 
kwenye intaba, la buza, la ti, " U 
ng' ubani na, wena o s' etusako ? " 
La ti eli pete isignbu, la ti, "Ngi 
Umuyobolozeli. Nembuya ngi ya 
i yobolozela ; umuntu ngi m gwi- 
nya nje. A ngi m d/dafuni ; ngi m 
gwinya nje." La baleka ke ukuba 
li zwe loko ukuti, umuntu ka d/da- 
funywa. 


Uthlakanyana comes back , and 

"Wa buya ke UAlakanyana, 
w' eza kuleli lesigubu. Li se li 
ngenisile end/dini. Wa fika TJ/da- 
kanyana, wa ti, " Malume, mina 
na lapa ngi be ngi Aleli ngi umu- 
ntwana nje : na kuwe ngi sa za 
'kuba umntwana wako, ngokuba 
na lapa ngi be ngi umntwana 
nje. Ngi tanda ukuAlala kuwe ; 
ngokuba u umalume wami nawe." 
La ti, " Kulungile ; ngokuba we- 
na umncinane kumi : /d ala ke." 
Ba Alala ke nezimu lesigubu. La 
ti, " Sala ke lapa, u bheke umuzi 
wami, lunfokazi e ngi m krotshile 
a nga ze 'kutshisa umuzi wami." 
Wa ti U/dakanyana, " Yebo ke ; 
hamba ke, u ye u zingele." La 
hamba ke. Wa 7dala ke. 


35 Gargantua swallowed alive five 
ch. xxxviii . ) 


with loud blowings. Uthlakanyana 
said, " Did you not say there was 
no noise outside 1 Why is it now 
approaching with loud blowings 1 " 
It sounded at hand now. Both 
went out ; both fled. The owner 
of the calabash appeared. The 
cannibal was now standing on one 
hill, and Uthlakanyana on another; 
the cannibal asked, " Who are you 
who are thus alarming us ? " The 
cannibal who was carrying the 
calabash said, " I am Mr. Guzzler. 
I guzzle down wild spinach ; and 
as for a man, I just bolt 35 him ; I 
do not chew him ; I just bolt 
him." The cannibal ran away 
when he heard that a man was not 
chewed. 

gains the cannibal's confidence . 

Uthlakanyana returned to him 
of the calabash. He had already 
taken possession of the house. 
Uthlakanyana came, and said, 
" Uncle, I was living here as a 
child, as I have in all other places 
where I have been ; and with you 
too I will stay, and be your child ; 
for I lived here as a mere child, as 
well as in all other places. I wish 
to live with you, for you too are 
my uncle." The cannibal said, 
" Yery well, for you are smaller 
than I. Stay." So he and the 
cannibal of the calabash lived 
together. The cannibal said, "Just 
stay here, and watch my kraal, 
that the vagabond I have driven 
away may not come and burn my 
kraal." Uthlakanyana said, "Cer- 
tainly. Do you go and hunt." 
So the cannibal departed ; and 
Uthlakanyana remained. 

lgrims with a salad ! ( Rabelais. Book 


UHLAKANYANA. 


33 


Uthlakanycma brings a little army against the cannibal , which proves 
too much for him. 


Wa tata iika, w' eniuka UAla- 
kanyana. Wa Alangana nenyoka ; 
wa i bamba, wa i faka eikeni. 
Wa Alangana nomnyovu ; wa u faka 
eikeni. Wa Alangana nofezela; 
wa m bamba, wa m faka eikeni : 
zonke ezilumako, ezinobuAlungu 
kakulu, wa zi bamba, wa zi faka 
eikeni. La gcwala iika. Wa 
bopa, wa twala, wa buya, wa 
ngena endAlini. La fika izimu. 
Wa ti, " Malume, namAla nje ku 
fanele ukuba umnyango u ncitshi- 
swe, u be muncinane : mubi um- 
nyango omkulu." La ti izimu, 
" K^a. A ngi u funi umnyango 
omncinane." Wa ti, " Yebo ke ; 
ngi ya vuma. Ngi sa za 'kuhamba, 
ngi ye ekakomame ; 36 ngi ye 'ku- 
funa umzawami, ngi ze naye lapa ; 
az'a Alale lapa." Iika wa hamba 
nalo ; wa li tukusa. Kwa Aiwa 
ke, wa fika endAlini kona lapa 
izimu la li kona, wa fika nezin- 
tungo zokuncipisa umnyango wen- 
dAlu. Wa vula, wa ngena ; wa 
pinda wa puma. Wa w aka ke 
umnyango, wa mncane, a kwa 
lingana nomntwana, ukuba a nga 
puma kona. Kwa sa, e se e Aleli 
emnyango UAlakanyana, wa ti, 
" Malume, malume ! " La ti, 
" Ubani 1 " Wa ti, " U mi, ma- 
lume." La ti, " U we, mfana 
kadade ? " Wa ti, "Yebo. Ngi 
vulele ; ngi zoku ku tshela indaba ; 
ngi buye endAleleni ; a ngi finye- 
lelanga ; indaba embi e ngi i zwile." 
La vuka izimu, la ti li ya vula ke, 
kwa kgdna. La ti, "Mfana ka- 


Uthlakanyana took a bag, and 
departed. He fell in with a snake ; 
he caught it, and put it in his bag. 
He fell in with a wasp ; he put it 
in his bag. He fell in with a 
scorpion ; he caught it, and put it 
in his bag : all biting, and deadly 
poisonous, animals he caught and 
put in his bag. The bag was full. 
He tied it up, and carried it back 
again to the house. The cannibal 
came. Uthlakanyana said, "Un- 
cle, it is proper that the doorway 
should this very day be contracted, 
that it may be small : a large 
doorway is bad." The cannibal 
said, "No. I do not like a nar- 
row doorway." He said, "Very 
well ; I agree. I am now going 
to my mother's kraal, to fetch my 
cousin, and return here with her, 
that she may live here." He took 
the bag with him, and hid it. When 
it was dark, Uthlakanyana came to 
the house where the cannibal was, 
with some rods for the purpose of 
contracting the doorway. He 
opened the door, and went in ; and 
again went out. He built up the 
doorway, making it small : it was 
not large enough for a child to go 
out. In the morning Uthlakanya- 
na, still stopping at the doorway, 
said, "Uncle! Uncle!" The 
cannibal said, " Who are you 1 " 
He said, " It is I, uncle." He 
said, "You, child of my sister?" 
He replied, " Yes ; open the door 
for me ; I come to tell you news ; 
I come back from the road ; I did 
not reach my mother : it is bad 
news which I have heard." The 
cannibal arose. When he tried to 
open the door, it was firm. He 
said, " Child of my sister, it is 


36 Ekakomame = ekaya kubo kamame, that is, the place where his mother 
was born. 


34 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


dacle, ku k^inile ukuvula." Iika 
li ngapakati ; u li ngenisile U/da- 
kanyana ebusuku, ukuncipisa kwa- 
ke umnyango lowo. Wa ti, 
" Tukulula iika lelo, u li lete, u li 
veze lapa. Nami ngi mangele 
ngokiincipa kwomnyango. Tuku- 
lula, u li tintite ; u li veze kule 
intubana ; umnyango ngi za 'ku 
w andisa. " La tukulula kaloku. 
Kwa puma inyoka ; ya lum' isa- 
nd/da : kwa puma inyosi ; ya su- 
zela esweni : kwa puma umnyovu ; 
wa suzcla csi/datini. La ti izimu, 
" Mfana kadacle, loku o kw enzile 
nam/da nje, a ngi bonanga ngi ze 
ngi ku bone, lo nga zalwa umfazi 
nendoda. Ngi size ; ngi ya d/diwa 
lapa end/dini yami ; a ngi sa boni." 
(Ufezela wa li suzela izimu.) Wa 
ti U/dakanyana, " Nami a ng' azi 
uba lezo 'zilwane zi ngene njani 
eikeni lami lapo." La ti izimu, 
" Vula ke, ngi pume." Za puma 
zonke izilwane, za li d/da ; la fa 
ngobu/dungu bezinyoka, nezinyosi, 
naofezela, neminyovu. La kala, 
la kala ke, la ze la fa. La fa ke 
izimu. 


U tldakanyana mocks the dead cann 

of the 

Wa vula ke U/dakanyana, wa 
vula ke, e ti, " Malume, u se u 
tukutele na ? Kwa b' u se zwakala 
manje na, lo be ngi ti u ya kala 
na ? Malume wami, kuluma. U 
tulele ni na ? A u tshaye isigubu 
sako, ngi lalele, ngi zwe." Wa za 
wa ngena. Wa fika se li file. Wa 
li kipa end/dini. Wa ngenisa ; 
wa lala ; wa /dala manje. 


hard to open." The bag was in- 
side ; Utlilakanyana had put it in 
in the night, when he contracted 
the doorway. He said, "Just 
undo that bag, and bring it, and 
put it here. I too wondered at 
the contraction of the doorway. 
Untie the bag, and shake it, and 
bring it to this little hole : as for 
the doorway, I will enlarge it." 
The cannibal now undid the bag 
The snake came out, and bit his 
hand. The bee came out, and 
stung him in the eye ; the wasp 
came out, and stung him on the 
cheek. The cannibal said, " Child 
of my sister, this thing which you 
have done to-day, I never saw the 
like, since I was born of a woman 
and man ! Help me ; I am being 
eaten up here in my house. I can 
no longer see." (The scorpion too 
stung the cannibal.) Uthlakanya- 
na said, " I too am ignorant how 
those animals got into my bag." 
The cannibal said, " Open, that I 
may get out." All the animals 
came out of the bag, and eat the 
cannibal, and he died of the poison 
of snakes, and of bees, and scor- 
pions, and wasps. He cried and 
cried until he died. So the can- 
nibal died. 

ibal, and instals himself as owner 
house . 

Uthlakanyana opened the door, 
and said, " Are you still angry, my 
uncle 1 Do you no longer cry out 
so as to be heard • for I thought 
you were screaming ? My uncle, 
speak. Why are you silent 1 J ust 
play your calabash, that I may 
listen and hear. At length he 
entered ; when he came, the can- 
nibal was dead. He took him out 
of the house, and took possession 
of it. He slept, and was happy 
now. 


UIILAKANYANA. 


35 


The original ovmer of the house comes back , and submits to 
U thlakanyana. 


La fika izimu, umninikazindAlu. 
La ti, " Mfana kadade, ngi ku 
bonile ; ngi be ngi kona lapa, ngi 
bona, ukuvala kwako lapa em- 
nyango, uknba n indoda, loko u 
valela urnuntu owa ngi kccotsha 
emzini wami." Wa ti UAlaka- 
nyana, " Nawe manje ngi se ngi 
mkulu kunawe, ngokuba w' a/du- 
liwe umngane wako, mina ng' a- 
/dule yena. Ngi se ngi ya ku tola 
nawe nam/da." La ti izimu, " Ku- 
lungile, ngokuba ku bonakele uku- 
ba ng' a/duliwe mina." Ba li \ ala 
ke, ba hi ala ke. 


The cannibal, the owner of the 
house, came, and said, " Child of 
my sister, I have seen you. I was 
here at hand, and saw, when you 
closed up the doorway, that you 
are a man, since you shut in a 
man who drove me away from my 
kraal." Uthlakanyana said, "And 
you — now I am greater than you ; 
for you were surpassed by your 
friend, and I have surpassed him. 
I am now finding 37 you too to- 
day." The cannibal said, "It is 
right ; for it is evident that I am 
surpassed." So they remained for 
some time. 


Uthlakanyana cannot forget the iguana , from v:hom he gets back his 

whistle. 


Wa ti U/dakanyana, "Ngi y' e- 
muka nami. Imbande yami, ku 
se loko ng' amukwa ukceamu." 
Wa hamba ke, wa vela, w' enyusa 
umfula. Ukicamu wa b' e alukile, 
e yokud/da ubulongwe a bu dAla- 
ko ; nembande e i pete. Wa fika 
U/dakanyana, wa kwela pezulu 
emtini a tamelako kuwo ; wa 
memeza, wa ti, " Krramu ; " wa ti, 
" Kajamu." Wa ti ukicamu, "Ngi 
bizwa ubani na ? Loku mina ngi 
ze 'kuzifunela, lowo o ngi bizayo, 
k' eze lapa." Wa ti U/dakanyana, 
" U k^inisile ke. Se ngi za ke, 
lapa u d/da kona." W' e/da U/da- 


Uthlakanyana said, " I too am 
going away. My flute ! It is now a 
long time since it was taken away 
from me by the iguana." So he set 
out; he came to the place, and 
went up the river. The iguana 
was out feeding, having gone to 
feed on the dung, which is its food, 
and carrying the flute with it. 
Uthlakanyana mounted on the 
tree, where the iguana sunned 
itself, and shouted, " Iguana ! 
iguana ! " The iguana said, " Who 
calls me ? Since I have come here 
to find food for myself, let him 
who calls me come to me." 
Uthlakanyana said, " You are 
right. I am coming to the place 
where you are feeding." Uthla- 
kanyana descended, and came to 


37 To find, that is, to admit as a dependent into the family, and to provide 
for a person. The use of find in this sense is found in the old ballad of Adam 
Bell 

" There lay an old wife in that place, 

A little beside the fire, 

Whom William had found of charity 
More than seven year." 


36 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kanyana ; wa fika, wa ti, "I pi 
imbande yami ? " Wati, "Nantsi." 
Wa ti, " Ku njani ke nam/da nje ? 
Si pi ke isiziba ? Si kude ! " Wa 
ti ukasamu, "U za 'u ng" enza ni ? 
lo nantsi nje imbande yako, noka- 
nye ya shiwa u we nje ; nga ti ngi 
ku bizela yona, wa u se u hambile." 
Kodwa ke UAlakanyana wa m 
tshaya ; kwa tshaywa ukxamu ; 
w' amukwa imbande. Wa m 
bulala, wa m shiya e se file. 


U thlahanyana returns to the canni 
determines to go l 

Wa hamba ke, wa buyela ezi- 
mwini. Wa fika, izimu li nga se 
ko, nendAlu i s' i tshile. Wa 
Alala nje obala, wa Alupeka nje. 
W' esuka lapo, ngokuba indAlu a i 
se ko ; wa hamba nje. Wa za wa 
ti, "A se ngi ya kumame, loku 
naku se ngi Alupeka." 


U thlahanyana' s 

Wa buyela ke ekaya, wa fika 
kunina. Kwa ti ukuba unina a m 
bone, loku kwa se ku isikati 
'a/dukana naye, wa tokoza noku- 
tokoza unina e bona umntanake e 
buyile. Wa ti unina, " Sa ku 
bona, mntanami ; ngi ya tokoza 
ngokubuya kwako. Ku/de impela 
ukuba umntwana, noma 'aAlukene 
nonina isikati eside, a pinde a 
buyele kunina. Nga se ngi dabu- 
kile, ngi ti, u ya 'kufa, loku 
w' emuka u se muncinane ; ngi 
ti, umakazi u ya 'kudAla ni na 1 " 
Wa ti yena, "0, se ngi buyile, 


the iguana, and said, " Where is 
my flute ? " He replied, " Here it 
is." TJthlakanyana said, " How, 
then, is it now ? Where, then, is 
the deep water 1 It is far away ! " 
The iguana said, " What are you 
going to do to me, since there is 
your flute? And at the first it 
was left by you yourself ; I called 
you to give it to you, but you had 
already gone." But TJthlakanyana 
beat him ; the iguana was beaten, 
and had the flute taken away. He 
killed the iguana, and left him 
dead. 

il, but finds the house burnt, and 
ick to his mother. 

Then TJthlakanyana set out, 
and returned to the cannibal. 
When he arrived, the cannibal 
was no longer there, and the house 
was burnt. So he lived in the 
open air, and was troubled. He 
left that place because there was 
no house, and became a wanderer. 
At length he said, " I will now go 
back to my mother ; for behold I 
am now in trouble." 

arrival at home » 

So he returned home, and came 
to his mother. When his mother 
saw him, since it was now a long 
time that he had separated from 
her, she greatly rejoiced on seeing 
her child returned. His mother 
said, " How are you, my child ? 
I am delighted at your return. It 
is right indeed that a child, though 
he has separated from his mother 
a long time, should again return 
to her. I have been troubled, 
saying, you would die, since you 
departed from me whilst still 
young; saying, what would you 
possibly eat % " He replied, " O, 
now I am returned, my mother ; 


UIILAKANYANA. 


37 


mame ; ngi kumbule wena." Wa 
ku fi/da uku/dupeka, ngokuba wa 
ti, " Uma ngi ti kumame, ngi buye 
ngoku/dupeka, ku ya 'kuti m/da 
ng' ona kuye, a ngi krotshe ; a ti, 
Muka lapa, u isoni esidala; na 
lapa w' emuka kona, w' emuswa i le 
'mikuba." Ngaloko ke wa ku fi/da 
loko ; wa kulisa ukuti, " Ngi 
buye ngokutanda wena, mame," 
'enzela ukuze unina a m tande 
njalonjalo ; ku nga ti ngamAla be 
pambene a m tuke. Ngokuba 
U/dakanyana amakcala 'ke u be 
wa fi/ila ngokwazi ukuba urn' e wa 
veza, a nga patwa kabi. 


for I remembered you." He con- 
cealed his trouble ; for he said, 
"If I say to my mother, I am 
come back because of trouble, it 
will come to pass, when I am 
guilty of any fault towards her, 
she will drive me away, and say, 
Depart hence; you are an old repro- 
bate : and from the place you left, 
you were sent away for habits of 
this kind." Therefore he concealed 
that, and made much of the say- 
ing, " I have returned for the love 
of thee, my mother ; " acting thus 
that his mother might love him 
constantly, and that it might not 
be, when he crossed her, that she 
should curse him. For Uthla- 
kanyana concealed his faults ; 
knowing that if he recounted 
them, he might be treated badly. 


On the following day U thlakanyana goes to a wedding , and brings 
home some umdiandiane. 


Kwa ti ngangomuso wa hamba, 
wa ya eketweni ; wa fika wa buka 
iketo : ya sina intombi. Ba kgeda 
ukusina, wa goduka. Wa fika 
entabeni, wa fumana umdiandiane ; 
wa u mba ; wa fika ekaya, wa u 
nika unina, wa ti, "Mame, ngi 
pekele umdiandiane wami. Ngi 
sa ya 'kusenga." Wa u peka 
unina. Wa vutwa, wa ti unina, 
" Ake ngi zwe uma kunjani." 
Wa dAla, w' ezwa kumnandi ; wa 
u kgeda. 


On the morrow he went to a 
marriage-dance : on his arrival he 
looked at the dance : the damsel 
danced. When they left off danc- 
ing, he went home. He came to 
a hill, and found some umdiandia- 
ne ; 38 he dug it up. On his arrival 
at home, he gave it to his mother, 
and said, " Mother, cook for me 
my umdiandiane. I am now 
going to milk." His mother 
cooked it ; when it was done, his 
mother said, "Just let me taste 
what it is like." She eat, and 
found it nice, and eat the whole. 


His mother , having eaten the umdiandiane , redeems her fault by a 

milk-pail . 


Wa fika Ukcaijana, wa ti, 
" Mame, ngi pe umdiandiane wa- 
mi." Wa ti unina, "Ngi u dAlile, 
mntanami." Wa ti, "Ngi pe 


Ukcaijana came, and said, 
" Mother, give me my umdiandia- 
ne." His mother said, " I have 
eaten it, my child." He said, 


38 Also called Intondo, an edible tuber, of which the native children arte 
fond. Grown up people rarely eat it, except during a famine. But a hunting 
party, when exhausted and hungry, is glad to find this plant, which is dug up, 
and eaten raw. It is preferred, however, when boiled. 


38 


IZINGANEKWAXE. 


umdiancliane wami ; ngokuba ngi 
u mbe esig^ umaggumaneni ; be ngi 
y' emjadwini." XJnina wa m nika 
umk^eng^e. Wa u tabata, wa 
hamba nawo. 


" Give me my umdiancliane ; for I 
dug it up on a very little knoll ; I 
having been to a wedding." His 
mother gave him a milk-pail. He 
took it, and went away with it. 


Vthlakanyana lends his milk-pail, for which when broken he gets an 

assagai. 


Wa fumana abafana b' alusile 
izimvu, be sengela ezindengezini. 
Wa ti, " Mina ni, nanku umkge- 
ng^e wami; sengela ni kuwona; 
ni ze ni ngi puzise nami." Ba 
sengela kuwo. Kwa ti owoku- 
gcina wa u bulala. Wa ti Ukcai- 
jana, " Ngi nike ni 'mk^engge 39 
wami : 'mk^engg-e wami ngi u 
nikwe 'mama ; mama e d/de 'mdi- 
andiane wami : 'mdiandiane wami 
ngi u mbe 'sig^umag^umaneni ; be 
ngi y' emjadwini." Ba m nika 
umkonto. Wa hamba ke. 


He fell in with some boys, 
herding sheep, they milking into 
broken pieces of pottery. He 
said, " Take this, here is my milk- 
pail ; milk into it ; and give me 
also some to drink." They milked 
into it. But the last boy broke it. 
Ukcaijana said, " Give me my 
milk-pail : my milk-pail my mo- 
ther gave me ; my mother having 
eaten my umdiancliane : my um- 
diancliane I dug up on a very 
little knoll ; I having been to a 
wedding." They gave him an 
assagai. So he departed. 


V thlakanyana lends his assagai, for vjhich when broken he gets an 

axe. 


Wa funyana abanye abafana be 
d/da isibindi, be si benga ngezim- 
bengu. Wa ti, " Mina ni, nank' 
umkonto wami ; benga ni ngawo, 
ni ze ni ngi pe nami." Ba u ta- 
bata, ba benga, ba d/da. Kwa ti 
kwowokupela w' apuka umkonto. 
Wa ti, "Ngi nike ni 'mkonto wa- 
mi : 'mkonto wami ngi u nikwe 
'bafana ; 'bafana be bulele 'mkge- 
ng^e wami : 'mkgeng^e wami ngi 
u pi we 'mama ; 'mama e d/de 'mdi- 


He fell in with some other boys, 
eating liver, they cutting it into 
slices with the rind of sugar-cane. 
He said, " Take this, here is my 
assagai ; cut the slices with it ; and 
give me some also." They took it, 
and cut slices and eat. It came to 
pass that the assagai broke in the 
hands of the last. He said, " Give 
me my assagai : my assagai the 
boys gave me; the boys having 
broken my milk pail : my milk- 
pail my mother gave me ; my mo- 
ther having eaten my umdiancliane : 


39 It will be observed that when Uthlakanyana offers to lend his property 
to others he speaks correctly ; but when it has been destroyed, and he demands 
it back again (that is, according to native custom, something of greater value 
than the thing injured), he speaks incorrectly, by dropping all the initial vowels 
of the nominal prefixes. By so doing he would excite their compassion by 
making himself a child, who does not know how to speak properly. But there 
is also a humour in it, by which foreigners are ridiculed, who frequently speak 
in this way. The humour is necessarily lost in the translation. 


UHL AK AN YANA. 


39 


andiane wami : 'mdiandiane wami 
ngi u mbe 'siggnmaggumaneni, be 
ngi y' emjadwini." Ba m nika 
izembe. Wa hamba. 


my umdiandiane I dug up on a 
very little knoll, I having been to 
a wedding." They gave him an 
axe. He departed. 


Utldakanyana lends his axe , for which when broken he gets a 

blanket 


Wa fumana abafazi be teza 
izinkuni ; wa ti, " Bomame, ni 
teza ngani na ? " Ba ti, "A si 
tezi ngaluto, baba." Wa ti, " Mi- 
na ni, nantsi imbazo yami. Teza 
ni ngayo. Uma se ni k^edile, i 
lete ni kumi." Kwa ti kwowoku- 
pela y apuka. Wa ti, " Ngi nike 
ni 'mbazo yami : 'mbazo yami ngi 
i nikwe 'bafana ; 'bafana b' apule 
'nxkonto wami : 'mkonto wami ngi 
u pi we 'bafana ; 'bafana b' apule 
'mk^engge wami : 'mkgengge wa- 
mi ngi u nikwe 'mama ; 'mama e 
d/de 'mdiandiane wami : 'mdiandi- 
ane wami ngi u mbe 'sig^umag^u- 
maneni, be ngi y' emjadwini." 
Abafazi ba m nika ingubo. Wa i 
tabata, wa hamba nayo. 


He met with some women 
fetching firewood ; he said, " My 
mothers, with what are you cut- 
ting your firewood ? " They said, 
"We are not cutting it with any- 
thing, old fellow." He said, " Take 
this ; here is my axe. Cut with 
it. When you have finished, bring 
it to me." It came to pass that 
the axe broke in the hand of the 
last. He said, " Give me my axe : 
my axe the boys gave me ; the 
boys having broken my assagai : 
my assagai the boys gave me ; the 
boys having broken my milk-pail : 
my milk-pail my mother gave me ; 
my mother having eaten my um- 
diandiane : my umdiandiane I dug 
up on a very little knoll, I having 
been to a wedding." The women 
gave him a blanket. He took it, 
and went on his way with it. 


Uthlakanyana lends his blanket , for which when torn he gets a 

shield. 


Wa funyana izinsizwa 'zimbili, 
zi lele-ze. Wa ti, " Ah, bangane, 
ni lala-ze na? A ni nangubo ini ? " 
Zati, "Kgu." Wati, "Yembata 
ni yami le." Z' embata ke. Za 
zinge zi donsisana yona, ngokuba 
incane : ya za ya dabuka. Wa ti 
kusasa, " Ngi nike ni 'ngubo ya- 
mi : 'ngubo yami ngi i nikwe 
'bafazi ; 'bafazi b' apule 'zembe 
lami : 'zembe lami ngi li nikwe 
'bafana ; 'bafana b' apule 'mkonto 
wami : 'mkonto wami ngi u nikwe 


He found two young men sleep- 
ing without clothing. He said, 
" Ah, friends. Do you sleep with- 
out clothing ? Have you no blan- 
ket ? " They said, "No." He 
said, " Put on this of mine." So 
they put it on. They continually 
dragged it one from the other, 
for it was small : at length it 
tore. He said in the morning, 
" Give me my blanket : my blanket 
the women gave me ; the women 
having broken my axe : my axe 
the boys gave me ; the boys having 
broken my assagai ; my assagai 


H 


40 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


'bafana; 'bafana b' apule 'mkge- 
ng^e wami : 'mkgeng^e wami ngi 
u nikwe 'mama ; 'mama e dAle 
'mdiandiane wami : 'mdiandiane 
wami ngi u mbe 'sig^umag^uma- 
neni, be ngi y' emjadwini." Za m 
nika ihau. Wa hamba ke. 


the boys gave me ; the boys having 
broken my milk-pail : my milk-pail 
my mother gave me ; my mother 
having eaten my umdiandiane : 
my umdiandiane I dug up on a 
very little knoll, I having been to 
a wedding." They gave him a 
shield. So he departed. 


Uthlakanyana lends his shield , for which when broken he receives a 

war-assagai. 


Wa fumana amadoda e lwa 
nesilo, e nge namahau. Wa ti, 
" A ni nahau na ? " A ti, " Kgu." 
Wa ti, " Tata ni elami leli, ni lwe 
ngalo." Ba li tata ke ; ba si 
bulala isilo. Kwa dabuka um- 
ghabelo wokupata. Wa ti, " Ngi 
nike ni 'hau lami : 'hau lami ngi 
li nikwe 'zinsizwa ; 'zinsizwa zi 
dabule 'ngubo yami : 'ngubo yami 
ngi i nikwe 'bafazi ; 'bafazi b' apule 
'zembe lami : 'zembe lami ngi li 
nikwe 'bafana ; 'bafana b' apule 
'mkonto wami : 'mkonto wami ngi 
u nikwe 'bafana ; 'bafana b' apule 
'mkgeng^e wami : 'mkgeng^e wa- 
mi ngi u nikwe 'mama ; 'mama e 
d/de 'mdiandiane wami : 'mdiandi- 
ane wami ngi u mbe 'sig^umaggu- 
maneni, be ngi y' emjadwini." 
Ba m nika isinkemba. Wa ha- 
mba ke. 


Loko a kw enza ngaso kumbe 
ngi nga ni tshela ngesinye 'sikati. 


He fell in with some men fight- 
ing with a leopard, who had no 
shields. He said, " Have you no 
shield?" They said, "No." He 
said, "Take this shield of mine, 
and fight with it." They took it ; 
and killed the leopard. The hand- 
loop of the shield broke. He said, 
" Give me my shield : my shield 
the young men gave me ; the 
young men having torn my blan- 
ket : my blanket the women gave 
me ; the women having broken 
my axe : my axe the boys gave 
me ; the boys having broken my 
assagai : my assagai the boys gave 
me; the boys having broken my 
milk-pail : my milk-pail my mother 
gave me ; my mother having eaten 
my umdiandiane : my umdiandiane 
I dug up on a very little knoll, I 
having been to a wedding." They 
gave him a war-assagai. So he 
went on his way. 

What he did with that, perhaps 
I may tell you on another occasion. 


USIKULUMI. 


41 


USIKULUMI KAHLOKOHLOKO . 40 


The father of Usikulumi has his male children destroyed. 


Ku tiwa kwa ku kona inkosi etile ; 
ya zala amadodana amaningi. 
Kepa ya i nga ku tandi ukuzala 
amadodana ; ngokuba ya i ti, ku 
ya 'kuti urn' amadodana a kule, a 
i gibe ebukosini bayo. Kwa ku 
kona izalukazi ezi miselwe ukubu- 
lala amadodan' ayo leyo inkosi ; 
ku ti umntwana wesilisa i nga m 
zala, a be se siwa ezalukazini, 
ukuba zi m bulale ; zi be se zi m 
bulala. Z' enza njalo kubo bonke 
abesilisa aba zalwa i leyo inkosi. 


It is said there was a certain king ; 
he begat many sons. But he did 
not like to have sons ; for he used 
to say it would come to pass, when 
his sons grew up, that they would 
depose him from his royal power . 41 
There were old women appointed 
to kill the sons of that king ; so 
when a male child was born, he 
was taken to the old women, that 
they might kill him \ and so they 
killed him. They did so to all the 
male children the king had. 


Usikulumi is horn , and preserved by his mother's love . 


Kwa ti ngesinye isikati ya zala 
indodana enye ; unina wa i sa eza- 
lukazini e i godAla. Wa zi nika 
izalukazi ; wa zi ncenga kakulu 


He happened on a time to beget 
another son ; his mother took him 
to the old women, concealing him 
in her bosom. She made presents 
to the old women, and besought 


40 Usikulumi ka/dokoAloko, "Usikulumi, the son of Uthlokothloko. " 
Usikulumi, "an orator," or great speaker. IAlokoAloko, "a finch." Uthlo- 
kothloko may be either his father's name, or an isibongo or surname given to 
himself intended to characterize his power as a great speaker. 

41 "In the Legends of Thebes, Athens, Argos, and other cities, we find the 
strange, yet common, dread of parents who look on their children as their 
future destroyers. " (Cox. Tales of Thebes and Argos, p. 9 .) Thus, because 
Hecuba dreams that she gives birth to a burning torch, which the seers inter- 
pret as intimating that the child to be bom should bring ruin on the city and 
land of Troy, the infant Paris is regarded with ' ' cold unloving eyes, " and sent 
by Priam to be exposed on mount Ida. So because the Delphic oracle had 
warned Laius that he should be slain by his own child, he commanded his son 
(Edipus to be left on the heights of Cithreron. In the same manner Acrisius, 
being warned that he should be slain by his daughter Danae's child, orders her 
and her son Perseus to be enclosed in an ark, and committed to the sea. But 
all escape from the death intended for them ; all " grow up beautiful and brave 
and strong. Like Apollo, Bellerophon, and Heracles, they are all slayers of 
monsters." And "the fears of their parents are in all cases realised." fSee 
Cox , Op. cit., and Tales of the Gods and Heroes.) The Legend of Usikulumi has 
very many curious points in common with these Grecian Myths. There is the 
father's dread ; the child's escape at first by his mother's love ; in his retreat, 
like Paris on the woody Ida, he becomes a herder of cattle, and manifests his 
kingly descent by his kingly bearing among his fellows ; he is discovered by his 
father's officers, and is again exposed in a forest, in which lives a many -headed 
monster, which devours men ; the monster, however, helps him, and he becomes 
a king, and returns, like one of the invulnerable heroes, to justify his father's 
dread, and to give the presentiment a fulfilment. 


12 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ukuba zi nga i bulali, zi i se kwo- 
ninalume, ngokuba kwa ku indo- 
dana a i tanda kakulu. XJnina wa 
zi ncenga ke kakulu izalukazi, wa 
ti a zi y anyise. Za y anyisa, za i 
sa kwoninalume wendodana, za i 
beka lapo kwoninalume. 


He goes with the herd 

Kwa ti ekukuleni kwayo ya ba 
insizwana, ya tanda ukwalusa 
kwoninalume ; ya landela abafana 
bakwoninalume ; ba y azisa, be i 
dumisa. Kwa ti ekwaluseni kwabo 
ya ti kubafana, " Keta ni amatsbe 
amakulu, si wa tshise." Ba wa 
keta, ba w enza ink^waba. Ya 
ti, " Keta ni itole eli/de, si li 
Mabe." Ba li keta em/dambini a 
ba w alusileyo. Ya t' a ba li 
Alinze ; ba li /dinza, b' osa inyama 
yalo, be jabula. Abafana ba ti, 
" W enza ni ngaloko na % " Ya ti, 
"Ngi y' azi mina e ngi kw e- 
nzayo." 


them earnestly not to kill him, but 
to take him to his maternal uncle, 
for it was a son she loved exceed- 
ingly. The mother, then, besought 
the old women very much, and 
told them to suckle the child. 
They suckled him, and took him 
to his uncle, and left him there 
with his uncle. 

oys, a/nd acts the king. 

It came to pass when he had 
become a young man that he liked 
to herd the cattle at his uncle's, 
and followed the boys of his uncle's 
kraal ; they respected and honour- 
ed him. It came to pass, when 
they were herding, he said to the 
boys, " Collect large stones, and 
let us heat them." 42 They collected 
them, and made a heap. He said, 
" Choose also a fine calf, and let 
us kill it." They selected it from 
the herd they were watching. He 
told them to skin it ; they skinned 
it, and roasted its flesh joyfully. 
The boys said, " What do you 
mean by this ? " He said, " I 
know what I mean." 


He is seen and recognised by his father's officers. 


Kwa ti ngolunye usuku b' alu- 
sile, kwa hamba izinduna zikayise, 
zi tunywa ngu ye ; za ti, " U 
ng' ubani na 1 " Ka ya ze ya zi 
tshela. Za i tata, zi nga balisi, 
zi ti, " Lo 'mntwana u fana nen- 
kosi yetu." Za hamba nayo, zi i 
sa kuyise. 


It happened one day when they 
were herding, the officers of his 
father were on a journey, being 
sent by him; they said, "Who 
are you 1 " He did not tell them. 
They took him, without doubting, 
saying, "This child is like our 
king." They went with him, and 
took him to his father. 


42 It is not at the present time the custom among the natives of these parts 
to bake meat by means of heated stones, which is so common among some other 
people, the Polynesians for instance. We should therefore conclude either that 
this Legend has been derived from other people, or that it arose among the 
Zulus when they had different customs from those now existing among them. 


USIKULUMI. 


43 


The officers make him known to his father for a reward. 


Kwa ti ekufikeni kwazo kuyise, 
za ti kuyise, " Uma si ku tshela 
indaba en/de, u ya 'ku si nika ni 
na?" Wa ti uyise wayo indodana 
ezinduneni, " Ngi ya 'ku ni nika 
izinkomo ezi-nombala , 43 ezi-nom- 
bala o te wa ti, noma o te wa ti, 
noma o te wa ti." Z' ala izinduna, 
za ti, " Kga ; a si zi tandi." Kwa 
ku kona ik^abi elimnyama lezin- 
kabi e zi gud/de Iona. Wa ti, 
"Ni tanda ni na?" Za ti izin- 
duna, " Ikgabi elimnyama." Wa 
zi nikela. Za m tshela ke, za ti, 
" Ku te ekuhambeni kwetu sa 
bona umntwana o fana nowako." 
Nangu uyise wa i bona leyo 'ndo- 
dana ukuba eyake impela ; wa ti, 
" Owa mu pi umfazi na ? " Ba ti 
aba m aziyo ukuba wa m fi/da, ba 
ti, " Okabani, umfazi wako, nkosi." 


The king is angry , and commands 

and lej 

Wa buta isizwe, e tukutele, wa 
ti, a ba i se kude. Sa butana 
isizwe ; kwa suka unina futi no- 
dade wabo. Wa ti, a ba i mu- 
kise, ba ye 'ku i beka kude 
ku/dati-kulu. Ngokuba kwa kw a- 
ziwa ukuba ku kona isilwane esi- 
kulu kulelo 'Alati, oku tiwa si d/da 
abantu, esi namakanda amaningi. 


When they came to his father, 
they said to him, " If we tell you 
good news, what will you give 
us ? " His father said to the offi- 
cers, " I will give you cattle of 
such a colour, or of such a colour, 
or of such a colour." The officers 
refused, saying, " No ; we do not 
like these." There was a selected 
herd of black oxen, at which they 
hinted. He said, " What do you 
wish ? " The officers said, " The 
herd of black oxen." He gave 
them. And so they told him, say- 
ing, "It happened in our journey- 
ing that we saw a child which is 
like one of yours." So then the 
father saw that it was indeed his 
son, and said, " Of which wife is 
he the child ? " They who knew 
that she concealed the child said, 
" The daughter of So-and-so, your 
wife, your Majesty." 

iim to be taken to the great forest , 
\ there. 

He assembled the nation, being 
very angry, and told them to take 
his son to a distance. The nation 
assembled ; his mother and sister 
also came. The king told them 
to take away his son, and to go 
and put him in the great forest. 
For it was known there was in 
that forest a great many-headed 
monster which ate men. 


His mother and sister accompany him to the great forest , and leave 
him there alone. 

Ba hamba be ya lapo. Aba- | They set out for that place, 
ningi a ba finyelelanga ; ba dinwa, | Many did not reach it ; they be- 

43 It was formerly, and is still, a custom among the Zulus to separate their 
oxen into herds according to the colour ; and the different herds were named 
accordingly. Thus : — Umdubu, the dun-coloured ; intenjane, dun with white 
spots ; umtoto, red ; irikone, with a white line along the spine ; impemvu, black 
with white muzzle, or white along the belly, &c. 


44 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


La buyela ernuva. Kwa hamba 
unina, nodade wabo, nendodana, 
bobatatu. Unina wa ti, " ISTgi nge 
mu shiye elubala ; ngo ya, ngi m 
beke kona lapo ku tiwe, ka ye 
kona." Ba ya ku/dati-kulu ; ba 
fika, ba ngena eAlatini. Ba ya 
'ku m beka etsbeni elikulu eli 
pakati kwe/dati. \Ya /dala kona. 
Ba m shiya, ba buyela emva. Wa 
/dala e yedwa pezu kwetshe. 

»- 


Usikulumi is aided by the many-) 

Kwa ti ngesinye isikati sa fika 
isilwane esi-'makanda-' maningi, si 
vela emanzini. Lapo kuleso 'si- 
lwane ku pelele izinto zonke. Sa 
i tata leyo 'nsizwa ; a si i bulala- 
nga ; sa i tata, sa i pa ukud/da, 
ya za ya kulupala. Kwa ti i s' i 
kulupele, i nga sa dingi 'luto, i 
nesizwe esiningi, e ya piwa i so 
leso 'silwane esi-'makanda-' maningi 
(ngokuba kuleso 'silwane kwa ku 
pelele izinto zonke nokud/da na- 
bantu), ya tanda ukuhambela ku- 
yise. Ya hamba nesizwe esikulu, 
se ku inkosi. 


He visits his uncle , and ii 

Ya ya konalume ; ya fika kona- 
lume ; kodwa unalume a ka y aza- 
nga. Ya ngena end/dini ; kodwa 
abantu bakonalume ba be nga y azi 
nabo. Ya ti induna yayo ya ya 
'kukcela inkomo kunalume ; ya ti 
induna, " U ti Usikulumi ka/do- 
ko/doko, mu pe inkomo en/de, a 
d/de." Uninalume wa li zwa lelo 
'bizo ukuti Usikulumi ka/doko- 
Alolo, w' etuka, wa ti, " Ubani ? " 


came tired, and turned back again. 
The mother and sister and the 
king's son went, those three. The 
mother said, " I cannot leave him 
in the open country ; I will go and 
place him where he is ordered to 
go." They went to the great 
forest; they arrived, and entered 
the forest, and placed him on a 
great rock which was in the midst 
of the forest. He sat down on it. 
They left him, and went back. 
He remained alone on the top of 
the rock. 

iaded monster , and becomes great. 

It came to pass one day that the 
many-headed monster came, it 
coming out of the water. That 
monster possessed everything. It 
took the young man ; it did not 
kill him ; it took him, and gave 
him food, until he became great. 
It came to pass when he had 
become great, and no longer want- 
ed anything, having also a large 
natiou subject to him, which the 
many-headed monster had given 
him (for that monster possessed all 
things, and food and men), he 
wished to visit his father. He 
went with a great nation, he 
being now a king. 

received with great joy. 

He went to his uncle ; but his 
uncle did not know him. He 
went into the house ; but neither 
did his uncle's people know him. 
His officer went to ask a bullock 
of the uncle ; he said, " Usiku- 
lumi, the son of Uthlokothloko, 
says, give him a fine bullock, that 
he may eat." When the uncle 
heard the name of Usikulumi, the 
son of Uthlokothloko, he started, 
and said, "Who?" The officer 


USIKULUMI. 


45 


Ya ti, " Inkosi." Uninalume wa 
puma ukuya 'ku m bona. Wa m 
bona ukuti ngu ye Usikulumi ka- 
AlokoAloko. Wa jabula kakulu ; 
wa ti, " Yi, yi, yi ! " e Alab' um- 
kosi ngokujabula, wa ti, " U fikile 
Usikulumi kaAlokoAloko ! " Kwa 
butwa isizwe sonke sakonalume. 
Unalume wa m nika iAlepu lezin- 
kabi ngokujabula okukulu ; wa ti, 
u Nazi izinkabi zako." Kw' e- 
nziwa ukudAla okukulu ; ba dAla, 
ba jabula ngoku m bona, ngokuba 
ba be ng' azi ukuti ba ya 'kubuya 
ba m bone futi. 


replied, 11 The king." The uncle 
went out to see him. He saw it 
was Usikulumi, the son of Uthlo- 
kothloko, indeed. He rejoiced 
greatly, and said; " Yi, yi, yi ! " 
sounding an alarm for joy, and 
said, " Usikulumi, the son of 
Uthlokothloko, has come ! " The 
whole tribe of his uncle was 
assembled. His uncle gave him a 
part of a herd of oxen for his 
great joy, and said, " There are 
your oxen." A great feast was 
made ; they eat and rejoiced be- 
cause they saw him, for they did 
not know that they should ever 
see him again. 


He reaches his father's kingdom ; his father is grieved at his arrival , 
and tries to kill him. 


Wa dAlula, wa ya kubo kuyise. 
Ba m bona ukuba ngu ye Usiku- 
lumi kaAlokoAloko. Ba m bikela 
uyise ; ba ti, " Nantsi indodana 
yako, owa i la/da ku/dati-kulu." 
Wa dabuka nokudabuka okukulu. 
Wa buta isizwe sonke ; wa ti, ka 
si /dome izikali zaso. Ba butana 
abantu bake bonke. Wa ti uyise, 
" Ka bulawe Usikulumi ka/doko- 
Aloko." W' ezwa loko Usikulumi 
ka/doko/doko, wa puma wa ya 
ngapand/de. Kwa butana isizwe 
sonke. Wa ti uyise, " Ka Ala- 
tshwe ngomkonto." W' ema obala, 
wa ti Usikulumi kaAlokoAloko, 
" Ngi kcibe ni, ni nga zisoli. " 44 Wa 
tsho loko ngokutemba ukuba ka 
yi 'kufa ; noma be m kciba kakulu, 


He passed onward, and went to 
his father's. They saw that it was 
Usikulumi, the son of Uthloko- 
thloko. They told his father, saying, 
" Behold your son, whom you cast 
away in the great forest." He was 
troubled exceedingly. He collected 
the whole nation, and told them 
to take their weapons. All his 
people assembled. The father said, 
" Let Usikulumi, the son of 
Uthlokothloko, be killed." Usi- 
kulumi heard it ; and went outside. 
The whole nation assembled. His 
father commanded him to be stab- 
bed with a spear. He stood in 
an open space, and said, " Hurl 
your spears at me to the utmost." 
He said this because he was 
confident he should not die ; 
although they hurled their spears 
at him a long time, even till 


44 Ni nga zisoli, 1 * without self -reproof. " — This saying is used to give a 
person liberty to do exactly as he wishes ; e. g . , if it is said, Hamba u yo'zike- 
iela umbila ensimini yami, " Go and gather mealies for yourself in my garden," 
the person addressed will not consider himself at liberty to take to the 
utmost of his wishes, but will gather a few. But if the words u nga zisoli are 
added, he will understand that no limit is put by the owner to his wishes. 


46 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


noma ku ze ku tshone ilanga, ka 
yi 'kufa. W' ema nje, kwa za kwa 
tshona ilanga. Ba m kciba be nge 
namand/da oku m bulala. Ngo- 
kuba wa e namand/da okuba a nga 
fi ; ngokuba leso 'silwane sa m 
kginisa, ngokuba sa s' azi ukuba u 
ya kubo ; s' azi ukuti uyise ka i 
fun' indodana ; s' azi ngokwaso 
ukuti ba ya 'ku m bulala XJsiku- 
lumi ka/doko/doko ; sa m k^inisa. 


the sun set, he should not die. 
He merely stood, until the sun set. 
They hurled their spears at him, 
without having power to kill him . 45 
For he had the power of not 
dying ; for that monster strength- 
ened him, for it knew that he was 
going to his people, and that his 
father did not want his son; it 
knew, by its own wisdom, that 
they would kill Usikulumi, the 
son of Uthlokothloko, and gave 
him strength. 


45 There are two Legends in which we find the account of an invulnerable 
hero, against whom the assagais of armies are thrown in vain — this of Usiku- 
lumi kathlokothloko, and the other that of Ulangalasenzantsi. It is remarkable 
how wide spread Legends of this kind are. The invulnerability of the good 
Balder, the beloved of the gods, is ensured by his mother exacting an oath from 
all created things, not to injure her son. " When the gods had thus, as they 
imagined, rendered all safe, they were accustomed, by way of sport, to let 
Balder stand forth at their assembly for all the dEsir to shoot at him with the 
bow, or to strike or throw stones at him, as nothing caused him any harm." 
But the insignificant mistletoe v r as omitted. And the bright god is killed by 
the mistletoe, through the treachery of Loki. ( Thorpe's Northern Mythology. 
Vol. /., pp. 72, 74 . ) 

" So on the floor lay Balder, dead ; and round 
Lay thickly strown, swords, axes, darts, and spears, 

Which all the gods in sport had idly thrown 
At Balder, w hom no w r eapon pierced or clave ; 

Biit in his breast stood fixed the fatal bough 
Of mistletoe, which Lok, the accuser, gave 
To Hoder, and unwitting Hoder threw : 

'Gainst that alone had Balder's life no charm." 

(Max Muller. Comparative Mythology. Oxford Essays. 1856, p. 66. J 
Whether such a Legend arose spontaneously all over the world, or whether, 
having had an origin in some poetical imagining, it has travelled from a common 
centre, and become modified in its journeying in accordance with place and cir- 
cumstances, it is not easy to determine. The possibility of a hero rendering 
himself invulnerable by medicinal applications, is not only quite wdthin the 
compass of a Zulu's imagination, but appears to be something that would very 
naturally suggest itself to him. At the present time he has his intelezi, plants 
of various kinds, by which he can ensure correctness of aim : his assagai flies 
to the mark not because of his skill, but because his arm has been anointed. 
And the doctors medicate a troop before going to battle, to render it invul- 
nerable to the weapons of the enemy. But together with the application of 
their medicines they give the soldiers certain rules of conduct ; and of course 
all that fall in battle are killed because they neglected the prescribed obser- 
vances ! — So also in the Polynesian Legends there are two instances of invul- 
nerability produced by magic. Maui transforms himself into a pigeon, and visits 
his parents ; " the chiefs and common people alike catch up stones to pelt him, 
but to no purpose, for but by his ow r n choice no one could hit him." ( Sir 
George Grey. Polynesian Mythology , p. 30. ) And Rupe in like manner trans- 
forms himself into a pigeon, and flies in search of his sister Hinauri to Tinirau's 
people, in the island of Motu-tapu. They try in vain both to kill it with spears 
and to noose it. (Id. } p. 86. ) 


UZEMBENI. 


47 


U sikulumi kills all his father's people , and departs with the spoil. 


B' a/duleka uku m kciba. Wa 
ti, "N* a/dulekile na? M Ba ti, 
" Se s' a/dulekile." Wa tata um- 
konto, wa ba /daba bonke ; ba fa 
bonke. Wa d/da izinkomo. W' e- 
muka nempi yake kulelo 'lizwe 
nezinkomo zonke. Nonina wa 
hamba naye, nodade wabo, e se 
inkosi. 


They were unable to pierce him 
with their spears. He said, " Are 
you worsted h " They said, "We 
are now worsted." He took a 
spear, and stabbed them all, and 
they all died. He took possession 
of the cattle ; and departed with 
his army from that country with 
all the cattle. His mother too 
went with him and his sister, he 
being now a king. 


UZEMBENI ; 46 

OR, 

USIKULUMI'S COURTSHIP. 


Uzembeni , having destroyed all other people, wishes to eat her own 
children , but finds the flesh bitter. 


Uzembeni umfazi omkulu. Wa 
zala intombi zambili ; kepa wa 
d/da abantu kulelo 'zwe lapa a ye 
kona, wa za wa ba kgeda, e ba d/da 
nezinyamazane ; a bulale umuntu 
kanye nenyamazane ; a peke 
inyama yomuntu neyenyamazane 
'ndawo nye. Ku te ukuba ba pele 
abantu ba ti nya, kwa sala yena 
nentombi zake ezimbili. Intombi 
zake za zi iduma ezizweni, zi dume 
ukuba '11/de. Enye intombi yake 
(kwa ti ngokupela kwabantu, e ba 
kgedile), wa i bamba intombi yake, 
wa i kipa isi/dati sanganceanye ; 
wa si peka, wa si d/da : sa baba ; 
ka be sa tanda uku i k^edela, ngo- 
kuba inyama yayo ya m /dupa 
ngokubaba : wa mangala, ka kgo- 


Uzembeni was a great woman. 
She had two daughters ; but she 
devoured the men of the country 
where she lived, until she had 
destroyed them all : she ate men 
and game; she killed man toge- 
ther with deer ; and boiled the 
flesh of man and the flesh of 
deer together. It came to pass 
that, when men were utterly con- 
sumed, there were left herself and 
her two daughters. Her daughters 
were celebrities among the tribes, 
on account of their beauty. One 
of her daughters (it happened be- 
cause there were no more men, she 
having destroyed them) she caught, 
and tore off her cheek on one side, 
and boiled it and ate it : it was 
bitter ; she no longer wished to eat 
her up, because her flesh annoyed 
her by its bitterness : she won- 


46 Uzembeni, "Axe-bearer," or Uzwanide, "Long-toe." 


i 


4-8 


IZIXGAXEKWAXE. 


ndanga lima ku ini loku, ukuba 
inyama i babe na 1 ? Ngaloko ke 
intombi zake za sinda kuye ngo- 
kubaba loko. 


dered, and did not understand why 
the flesh was bitter. Therefore 
her daughters escaped from her 
through that bitterness. 


Usikulumi comes to court Uzembeni' s daughters. 


Kwa fika insizwa, umntwana 
wenkosi. Igama laleyo 'nsizwa 
Usikulumi, 'eza 'uketa intombi 
en/de kulezo 'ntombi. Wa fika 
emini, Uzembeni e nge ko, e yo- 
zingela. Elinye igama lake ku 
tiwa Uzwanide ; ngokuba izwani 
lake la li lide kakulu ; i Iona a be 
bonakala ngalo e sa vela, ku tun^a 
izintuli ; ku be ku ti e nga ka 
veli, ku be se ku vela izintuli, 
z' enziwa uzwani lwake ; ngokuba 
lu be lu fika kuk^ala, lapa e ya 
kona Uzwanide. Ku te ke ukuba 
a fike Usikulumi ; nembala, wa zi 
fumana intombi lezo zombili ; wa 
bona nembala ukuba zinAle. Wa 
zi tanda, nave za m tanda ; ngo- 
kuba wa umntwana wenkosi, e 
bukeka. Kodwa za m kalela 
kakulu izinyembezi, zi ti, " A u 
fiki 'ndawo lapa. Si ya /dupeka ; 
a s' azi unia si za 'u ku beka pi, 
loku umame u d/da 'bantu. Nati 
u si bona nje si ya /dupeka." Ya 
t' enye, " A u bheke isi/dati sami. 
U yena nje umame ! A s' azi 
uma si za 'ku ku beka pi." 


There came a young man, the 
child of a king. The name of the 
youth was Usikulumi ; he came to 
select a pretty girl from those 
girls. He came by day, when 
Uzembeni was not there, she 
having gone to hunt. Another of 
her names is Long-toe ; for her toe 
was very long; it was that by 
which she was recognised, as 
she was coming in sight, the 
dust being raised ; and before 
she appeared, the dust appeared, 
being raised by her toe ; for it 
came first to the place where 
Long-toe was going. So when 
Usikulumi arrived, he found in- 
deed the two damsels. He saw 
that truly they were beautiful. 
He loved them, and they loved 
him also ; for he was a king's son, 
and good-looking. But they wept 
.many tears on his account, saying, 
"You have come nowhere 47 by 
coming here. We are troubled ; 
we do not know where we can put 
you ; for our mother eats men. 
And as for us you see us in 
nothing but trouble." One of 
them said, "Just look at my 
cheek. It is my very mother ! 48 
We do not know where we shall 
put you." 


47 A u fiki 'ndawo, "You have come nowhere," lit., "You have not come 
to a place," that is, you have come to a place where you will find no good, and 
may find evil. It is said when there is famine, or illness, or danger in a place. 
( So, A ngi svki 'ndawo, "I come from nowhere," that is, from a place where 
there was no pleasure nor profit ; as when a man has left an inhospitable kraal, 
where he has not been provided with food. So, A u yi 'ndawo, " You are going 
nowhere. " 

48 Telling Usikulumi that the injury of the cheek is her mother, that is, her 
mother's doing, as though she was ever present in the injury. So also of pro- 
perty or benefits ; the natives point to the property or gifts, and say, U yena 
Jo, na lo, na lo, " That is he, and he, and he," instead of his. 


UZEMBENI. 


49 


The (jirls dig a hole in the house y and conceal him in it. 


Ku njalonjalo Usikulumi e fika 
lapo ezintombini, u fika yedwa. 
Ekaya wa puma e liamba nom- 
/ilambi wake weziiija ; kodwa wa 
zi sliiya em/dangeni. Intombi 
z' enza ikcebo lokuti, " Uma si ti, 
ka liambe, Uzwanide u ya 'ku m 
landa ; " z' emba umgodi pakati 
kwend/du, za m faka, za buya za 
fulela, za /dala pezu kwawo. 


To return; 49 Usikulumi came 
to the damsels alone. He left 
home with his pack of dogs ; but 
he left them in a bed of reeds. 
The girls devised a plan, saying, 
"If we tell him to depart, Long- 
toe will pursue him ; " they dug 
a pit in the house, and put him in, 
and again covered it up, and sat 
over it. 


Uzembeni returns , and scents the game. 


Lwa vela utuli ekumukeni kwe- 
langa. Zati, "Nango ke e s' eza." 
Lwa fika uzwani kuk^ala, wa 
landela emva kwalo. U t' e sa 
fika wa Zdeka yedwa, wa Zdeka, 
wa bukuzeka, e ti, " Eh, eh ! 
end A1 ini yami lapa namZda nje ku 
nuka zantungwana. Banta bami, 
n' enze njani na 1 Leli 'punga li 
vela pi na l " Wa ngena, wa Aleka 
yedwa, e ba bansa, e ti, " Banta 
bami, ku kona ni lapa end/din i 1 " 
Izintombi za ti, " Yiya ! musa uku 
si fundekela ; a s' azi uma uto si 
lu tata pi." Wa ti, " Ake ngi 
zifimele ke, banta bami." Za ti, 
" A s' azi no za 'ku ku funa uma 


Towards sunset the dust ap- 
peared. They said, " Lo, she is now 
coming." The toe came first ; she 
came after it. As soon as she 
came, she laughed to herself; she 
laughed, and rolled herself on the 
ground, saying, " Eh, eh ! in my 
house here to-day there is a de- 
licious odour. My children, what 
have you done ? Whence -comes 
this odour 1 " 50 She entered the 
house ; she laughed to herself, 
patting them, and saying, " My 
children, what is there here in the 
house ? " The girls said, " Away ! 
don't bother us ; we do not know 
where we could get anything." 
She said, " Just let me look for 
myself, my children.'* They said, 
"We do not know even what you 
want to find; for there is just 


49 Ku njalonjalo. — A mode of expression by which a subject interrupted is 
again taken up. Revenons a nos moutons. It is also used with the meaning, 
Under these circumstances. 

50 Although there are here no corresponding words, one cannot fail to be 
reminded of the "Fee fo fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman," &c. The 
gigantic ogress here, as in the Legends of other countries, scents out the prey, 
and longs to be tearing human flesh. — So when Maui wished to gain possession 
of the "jaw-bone of his great ancestress Muri-ranga-whenua, by which the 
great enchantments could be wrought, " and had approached her for the purpose, 
she " sniffed the breeze " in all directions ; and when she perceived " the scent 
of a man, " called aloud, ' ' I know from the smell w afted here to me by the 
breeze that somebody is close to me." (Grey's Polynesian Mythology, p. 34 . ) 
And in the Legend of Tawhaki, the scout of the Ponaturi, a race who inhabited 
a country underneath the waters, on entering the house wdiere Tawhaki and 
Karilii were concealed, " lifted up his nose and turned sniffing all round inside 
the house. (Id., p. G4. See also Campbell, Op. cit. Vol. I., pp. 9, 252.) 


50 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


u za 'ufuna ni ; ku nge ko 'luto 
njena." Wa ti, " Ake ni suke 
pela, ngi zifunele." Za ti, " A si 
yi 'kusuka. Si ng' azi 'luto tina. 
Yenza o ku tandayo nje. A s' azi 
uma u za 'kuti ni kitina, loku 
naku se wa s' ona, se si nje." Ya 
tsko i m kombisa isi/dati sayo a si 
dAlako. Wa dela, wa lala. 


Usikulumi runs away with < 

Kwa sa kusasa, wa puma, wa 
ya 'uzingela. U t' e sa puma za 
bona ukuba lwa pela utuli, u se 
tshonile. Za m kipa Usikulumi. 
Ya t' enye, " A si hambe." Enye 
ya ti, " O, mnta kababa, hamba 
wena. Mina ngi nge kambe nawe, 
ngi hambe ngi ku Aleba kulo. U 
ngi bona uma se ngi nje ; umame 
wa ng' ona. Sa u kamba wedwa. 
Mina-se ngi Alalele ukuba Uzwa- 
nide a ze a ngi k^ede." 


nothing here." She said, "Just 
move then, that I may seek for 
myself." They said, " We will 
not get up. We know of nothing, 
for our parts. Just do as you will. 
We do not know what you will 
do to us, since you have already 
injured us, and we are now as we 
are." She said this, pointing to her 
cheek, which she had eaten. She 
gave up, and w~ent to sleep. 

ne of Uzembenis daughters . 

In the morning she went out to 
hunt. As soon as she was gone, 51 
they saw the dust cease, she 
having gone over the hill. They 
took out Usikulumi. One said, 
" Let us go." The other said, " O, 
child of my father, do you go. I 
cannot go with you to be a dis- 
grace to you in his presence. 
You see how I am ; my mother 
inj ured me. Do you go alone. I 
shall stay, that Long-toe may 
make an end of me." 


They travel night and day , hoping to escape Uzembeni. 


Ya hamba ke nosikulumi ; la za 
la tshona be hamba. Wa ya nga- 
sem/dangeni, e landa izinja zake : 
wa zi tata ; za hamba naye. Kwa 
za kwa 7dwa. Kwa sa be hamba, 
be n^enile ukuti, " Uma si lala, u 
ze 'u si funyana. A si hambe 
imini nobusuku, ku ze ku se ; 
kumbe si nga m shiya." 


So she went with Usikulumi ; 
they travelled till the sun set. 
He went by the way of the bed of 
reeds to fetch his dogs : he took 
them; and they went with him. 
At length it became dark. In 
the morning they were still jour- 
neying ; they travelled in fear, 
saying, " If we sleep, she will 
come up with us. Let us go day 
and night, until the morning ; 
perhaps we shall leave her be- 
hind." 


51 This is intended to intimate the rapidity of her motion. She went so 
rapidly that the dust raised by her progress ceased to be visible, as it were, 
whilst she was in the act of leaving the house ; e sa jniina, * ' as she was going 
out." She quitted the house, and at once disappeared over a distant hill. 


UZEMBENI. 


51 


Uzembeni pursues them , and they ascend a lofty tree. 


Wa fika ekaya Uzwanide. Wa 
fumana intombi yake inye. Ka 
be sa buza wa se d Alula, ukuti, 
" Umntanami u ye nga pi ? " Wa 
hamba kwa sa. Ku te emini ba 
lu bona ntuli, Usikulumi nen- 
tombi. Ya tsho intombi kusiku- 
lumi, ya ti, " Nango ke Uzwanide, 
u yena Iowa ke ; u se fikile. Si 
za 'kuya nga pi ke ? " Ba se be 
bona umkoba omude ; ba gijima, 
ba kwela kuwo ; izinja za sala 
ngapantsi. 


Long-toe came home : she found 
one daughter only. Without hesi- 
tation she went forward, saying, 
" Where has my child gone l " 
She went until the morning. At 
noon Usikulumi and the damsel 
saw the dust. She said to U siku- 
lumi, " Behold Long toe ; that is 
she yonder ; she has now come up 
with us. Where can we go ? " 
And they saw a lofty yellow-wood 
tree ; they ran, and climbed into 
it ; the dogs remained at its foot. 


TJzembeni attempts to hew down the tree , and is torn in pieces by the 

dogs. 


Wa fika Uzembeni; umfazi o 
namandAia kakulu. Wa fika 
nembazo yake. Wa bheka pezulu, 
wa ba bona. Ka be sa buza nge- 
mbazo emtini ; wa ba se u ya u 
gaula ngamandAla umuti, izinja za 
se zi m luma ; wa u gaula nga- 
mandAla. Ku te uma u zwakale 
ukuteta umuti, se w apuka, izinja 
za m bamba ngamandAla : enye ya 
m n^uma inAloko, nenye umkono ; 
ezinye za m kipa izito zonke, zi ya 
'ku m laAla lapaya kude ; ezinye 
za donsa amatumbu. 


Long-toe came. She was a very 
powerful woman. She came with 
her axe. She looked up, and saw 
them. Without hesitation she 
applied her axe to the tree ; and 
when she was now hewing the tree 
with all her might, the dogs bit 
her : she cut it with might. And 
when the tree was heard to creak, 
it now breaking, the dogs seized 
her firmly : one tore off her head,^ 
another her arm ; others tore off 
her limbs, and took them away to 
a distance ; others dragged away 
her intestines. 


The tree becomes sound , and Uzembeni comes to life again. 


Wa Aluma umuti masinyane, 
wa ba njengokukgula. Wa buya 
Uzembeni wa vuka ; za Alangana 
zonke izito zake ; wa vuka, wa 
tata imbazo, wa gaula ngamandAla 


The tree grew immediately, and 
resumed its original condition . 52 
Uzembeni came to life again ; all 
her limbs came together ; she rose 
up and took her axe, and hewed 


52 A similar thing is related of a magical tree in the Legend of Itshe-lika- 
tunjambili, given below. — In the Legend of "The King of Lochlin's Three 
Daughters," the widow's eldest son, who chose "the big bannock with his 
mother's cursing in preference to a little bannock with her blessing," went into 
the forest to cut timber to build a ship. "A great Uruisg [or Urisk, a "lubberly 
supernatural "] came out of the water, and she asked a part of his bannock. " 
He refused. " He began cutting wood, and every tree he cut would he on foot 
again ; and so he was till the night came." ( Campbell's Highland Tales. VoL 


52 


IZINGAXEKWANE. 


umuti ; ku te uma u zwakale u 
teta, izinja za buya za m nyuma 
in/doko nezito ; kwa ba i leyo ya 
gijima nesinye, i ya emfuleni 
edwaleni, zonke z' enza njalo ; za 
tata izimbokonclo, za gaya izito, 
z' enza impupu. 


the tree with might ; and when the 
tree was heard to creak, the dogs 
again tore off her head and limbs, 
and each went with one to the 
river, to a rock : all did the same ; 
they took large pebbles, and 
ground her limbs to powder. 


Uzwanide having been ground to powder, Usikulumi escapes. 


Wa sala w' e/da Usikulumi 
nentombi emtini ; ba gijima, b' e- 
muka, be ya kubokasikulumi. Za 
i tela emanzini inyama kazembeni, 
i se impupu. Za hamba ke, zi 
landela Usikulumi. Wa fa ke 
Uzembeni, wa pela. Wa fika 
ekaya Usikulumi kubo, kwa ka- 
lwa isililo. Kwa Alatshwa izin- 
komo, kwa jabulwa kakulu, be ti, 
" Le 'ntombi en/de kangaka u i 
tata pi na ? Sa si nga sa tsho uma 
n se kona. Sa se si ti, u file." 


Whereupon Usikulumi and the 
damsel descended from the tree, 
and ran away to Usikulumi's 
people. The dogs cast Uzembeni's 
flesh, when ground to powder, 
into the water ; and then they 
followed Usikulumi. So Uzembeni 
died ; and Usikulumi came home 
to his people ; they made a funeral 
lamentation . 53 Then they killed 
oxen and rejoiced greatly, say- 
ing, " This so beautiful damsel, 
where did you get her? We 
thought you were no longer in the 
land of the living. We thought 
you were dead." 


/., pp. 236, 237 . ) So Rata "went into the forest, and having found a very 
tall tree, quite straight thoughout its entire length, he felled it, and cut off its 
noble branching top, intending to fashion the trunk into a canoe ; and all the 
insects which inhabit trees, and the spirits of the forest, were very angry at 
this, and as soon as Rata had returned to the village at evening, when his day's 
work was ended, they all came and took the tree, and raised it up again, and 
the innumerable multitude of insects, birds, and spirits, who are called ' The 
offspring of Hakuturi, ' worked away at replacing each little chip and shaving in 
its proper place, and sang aloud their incantations as they worked ; this was 
what they sang with a confused noise of various voices : — 

' Fly together, chips and shavings, 

Stick ye fast together, 

Hold ye fast together ; 

Stand upright again, O tree ! ' " 

This occurs again and again, until Rata watches, and catches one of them. 
They tell him he had no right to fell the forest god. He is silent. They tell 
him to go home, and promise to build the boat for him. ( Sir George Greg's 
Polynesian Mythology, p. Ill — 114.) 

53 If a person who has disappeared for some time, and is supposed to be 
dead, unexpectedly returns to his people, it is the custom first to salute him by 
making a funeral lamentation. They then make a great feast. — A similar 
custom appears to prevail among the Polynesians. Thus Rehua is represented 
as making his lamentation on the approach of Rupe ; and ltupe appears to 
reply by a lamentation. ( Grey's Polynesian Mythology, p. 84. ) So " Ngatoro-i- 
rangi wept over his niece, and then they spread food before the travellers." 
(Id., p. 169.,) On Hatupatu's return, who was supposed to have been slain by 
his brothers, " the old people began to weep with a loud voice ; and Hatupatu 
said, ' Nay, nay ; let us cry with a gentle voice, lest my brethren who slew me 
should hear.' " ( Id., p. 1S9.,) So all the people weep over Maru-tuahu on his 

arrival. ( Id., p. 252.) 


UZEMBENI. 


5 3 


ANOTHER VERSION OF A 
A swallow meets with Usikut 

Kwa ti Usikulumi e hamba e 
ya kwazembeni e ya 'uk^oma 
intombi, e ng' azi 'luto ngozembeni, 
'azi intombi lezo, e ku tiwa zin/de ; 
wa hamba ke, wa Alangana nen- 
kwenjane ; ya ti kuye inkwenjane, 
" Sikiilumi, lapa u ya kona auyi 
'ndawo ; ku yi 'kuAlala kaAle. U 
ya 'ulondolozwa ubani na ? O, 
ngi Alin/de mina ; isikumba sami 
u si tunge, u si fake ezindukwini 
zako lapa, ukuze ngi ku tshele 
uma Uzembeni e za 'ku ku d/da." 
Wa i bamba ke inkwenjane, wa i 
Alin/da, wa si tunga isikumba 
sayo, wa si faka ezindukwini. 


The swallow's shin wan 

Wa fika kona kwazembeni. 
Ku ti ukuba a fike Uzembeni, isi- 
kumba leso sa m tshela Usiku- 
lumi, sa ti, "Nanku ke Uzembeni." 
Ku te ebusuku, lapa se ku lelwe 
end/dini kazembeni, Usikulumi e 
lele ngan.ranye kwend/du ; kwa ti 
ebusuku Uzembeni wa vuka, wa 
nyonyoba, e ya 'ubamba Usiku- 
lumi ; isikumba sa m vusa Usiku- 
lumi, sa ti, " Yuka ke manje. 
Nanku Uzembeni e se fikile." 
Wa vuka ke Usikulumi. Uze- 
mbeni wa buyela emuva ; ngokuba 
u tanda uku m zuma e lele. 

The swallow's shin tells 

Kwa za kwa sa ; and' uba isi- 
kumba si m tshele Usikulumi, si 
ti, " Muka ke manje ; ngokuba 
Uzembeni u se mukile." Wa 
puma ke nentombi leyo. E se 
hamba ke, e baleka, e balekela 
Uzembeni, wa za wa fika endaweni 
e nomuti. Sa ti isikumba, " Kwela 
kulo 'muti, ngi ku londoloze kona. 


TORTION OF THE TALE. 

:mi, and gives him a charm. 

It happened that as Usikulumi 
was on his way to Uzembeni to 
court her daughters, he knowing 
nothing of Uzembeni, knowing 
only about the damsels, which 
were said to be beautiful, he jour- 
neyed and met with a swallow. 
The swallow said to him, " Usiku- 
lumi, there is no place where you 
are going ; you will not be pros- 
perous there. Who will be your 
protector % O, skin me, and sow 
up my skin, and put it on your 
rods, that I may tell you when 
Uzembeni is coming to eat you." 
So he caught the swallow, and 
skinned it, and sewed its skin, and 
put it on his rods. 

? UsiJcidumi of danger. 

He arrived at Uzembeni's. 
When Uzembeni came, the skin 
told Usikulumi, saying, " There is 
Uzembeni." And in the night, 
when they lay down in Uzembeni's 
house, Usikulumi sleeping on one 
side of the house, it came to pass 
that in the night Uzembeni awoke, 
and stole stealthily, she going to 
lay hold of Usikulumi ; the skin 
awoke him, and said, " Awake 
now. Lo ! Uzembeni is at hand." 
So Usikulumi awoke ; and Uze- 
mbeni went back again ; for she 
wished to take him by surprise. 

him to make his escape. 

At length it dawned, whereupon 
the skin said to Usikulumi, " De- 
part now ; for Uzembeni has 
already set out." So he departed 
with the damsel. So he went and 
fled from Uzembeni, until he came 
to a place where there was a tree. 
The skin said, " Climb into this 
tree ; I will preserve you there. 


54 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Izinja zi za 'kulwa naye Uzembeni, 
zi m bulale." Wa kwela ke em- 
tini. Wa fika ke Uzembeni, wa 
u ganla. Kwa ti lapa se u za 'ku- 
wa, izinja za m kcita. Wa buya 
wa vuka. Ngemuva za m kcita 
nya. Isikumba sa ti, " Ye/da 
manje. Uzembeni u se file. Ko- 
dwa u ya 'kubuy' a vuke. Ye/da, 
u bambe ngamand/da." 


The dogs will fight with Uzembeni, 
and kill her." He climbed into 
the tree. Uzembeni came, and 
hewed the tree. When it was 
about to fall, the dogs tore her to 
pieces. She came to life again. 
After that they utterly tore her 
to pieces, and scattered the frag- 
ments. The skin said, " Descend 
now. Uzembeni is now dead ; 
but she will come to life again. 
Descend, and go speedily." 


TJzembeni comes to life again. 


Nembala Uzembeni wa sala wa 
vuka, loku izinja zi be zi m gaye, 
za m enza impupu, za m tela ema- 
nzini. Wa sala wa /dangana, wa 
vuka. Wa vuka be nga se ko. 
Wa funa ; ka be sa ba tola. Wa 
dela, wa goduka. 


And truly Uzembeni afterwards 
came to life, although the dogs had 
ground her to powder, and thrown 
her into the water. She again 
joined piece to piece, and came to 
life again . 54 She came to life again, 
when they were no longer on the 
tree. She sought them, but did 
not find them any more. So she 
gave up, and went home . 55 


54 So Heitsi Kabib, a very different character, however, from Uzwanide, 
" died several times, and came to life again." ( B leek's Hottentot Fables and 
Tales, p. 76. j 

55 In Basile's Pentamerone we find a tale which has some points of resem- 
blance with this. Petrosinella is a beautiful damsel in the power of an ogress, 
who confines her in a tower, to which access can be gained only by a little win- 
dow, through which she ascends and descends by means of Petrosinella's hair ! 
A young prince discovers her in her retreat, and reaches her in her tower by the 
same means as the ogress, the ogress having been sent to sleep by poppy-juice. 
But a neighbour discovers the lovers' interviews, and tells the ogress. She says 
in reply that Petrosinella cannot escape, "as she has laid a spell on her, so 
that unless she has in her hand the three gallnuts which are in a rafter in the 
kitchen, it would be labour lost to attempt to get away. " Petrosinella overhears 
their conversation ; gets possession of the gallnuts ; escapes with the prince 
from the tower by means of a rope-ladder ; the neighbour alarms the ogress, 
who at once pursues them ' ' faster than a horse let loose. " Petrosinella throws 
a gallnut on the ground, and up springs a Corsican bulldog, which rushes on the 
ogress with open jaws. But she pacifies the dog with some bread ; and again 
pursues them. Another gallnut is thrown on the ground, and a fierce and huge 
lion arises, which is preparing to devour her, when she turns back, strips the 
skin off a jackass which is feeding in a meadow, and covers herself with it : the 
lion is frightened, and runs away. The ogress again pursues, still clothed with 
the ass's skin. " They hear the clatter of her heels, and see the cloud of dust 
that rises up to the sky, and conjecture that it is she that is coming again. " 
Petrosinella throws down the third gallnut, when there starts up a wolf, " who, 
without giving the ogress time to play a new trick, gobbles her up just as she 
is, in the shape of a jackass." (p. 117.) 

Tales in which ogres are represented as having beautiful daughters, which 
are courted and won by princes, are very common in the "Folk-lore" of different 
nations. ( See Basile's "Dove," Op. cit., p. 180. Compare also "The Young 
King of Easaidh Ruadh;" and "The Battle of the Birds." Campbell , Op. cit. 
Vol. /., pp. 1 , 25.) 


UNTOMBINDE. 


00 


UNTOMBINDE . 55 


Untombinde urges her father to allow her to go to the Ilulange. 


Intojiei yenkosi Usikulumi ka- 
/doko/doko, U tnbokondo - i - gaya- 
abagayi, Uk^ulungu-umlomo-wa- 
otetwa, ya ti, " Baba, ngi y' elu- 
lange. Mame, ngi y' elulange, 
ngomunye unyaka." Wa ti uyise, 
"A ku yi, iu buya ko : ku ya 
'uyela futi." Ya vela futi ngo- 
munye unyaka, ya ti, " Baba, ngi 
y' elulange. Mame, ngi y' elula- 
nge." Wa ti, "Aku yi, lu buya 
ko : ku ya 'uyela futi." Kwa vela 
unyaka, ya ti, " Baba, ngi y' elu- 
lange." 'Ya ti, " Mame, ngi y' e- 
lulange." Ba ti, " Elulange a ku 
yi, lu buya ko : ku ya 'uyela futi." 
Wa vuma uyise, wa vum' unina. 


The daughter of tlie king Usiku- 
lumi, the son of Uthlokothloko, 
U mbokondo -i-gaya-abagayi , 57 U - 
kgulungu - umlomo - waotetwa, 58 
said, " Father, I am going to the 
Ilulange . 59 Mother, I am going to 
the Ilulange, next year." Her 
father said, "Nothing goes to that 
place and comes back again : 60 it 
goes there for ever." She came 
again the next year, and said, 
" Father, I am going to the Ilu- 
lange. Mother, I am going to the 
Ilulange." He said, " Nothing 
goes to that place and comes back 
again : it goes there for ever." 
Another year came round. She said, 
" Father, I am going to the Ilu- 
lange." She said, " Mother, I am 
going to the Ilulange." They 
said, " To the Ilulange nothing 
goes and returns again : it goes 
there for ever." The father and 
mother consented (at length). 


She collects two companies of maidens , and sets out. 


Ya buta intombi zi ikulu nge- 
n.renye kwo/dangoti lwendAlela ; 
ya buta intombi za likulu ngena-e- 
nye kwo/dangoti lwend/dela. Za 
liamba ke. Za /dangana naba- 
hhwebu. Za fika z' ema amakcala 


She collected a hundred virgins 
on one side of the road, and a 
hundred on the other. So tliey 
went on their way. They met 
some merchants. The girls came 
and stood on each side of the path, 


56 Untombinde, Tall-maiden. 

57 Umbokondo-i-gaya-abagayi, Upper millstone, which grinds the grinders. 

58 Uk/ulungu-umloino-waotetwa, .Pouter of the Abatetwa. 

69 A river, not now known to the natives. 

60 So the king's daughter beseeches the lisherman's son, her husband, not to 
go to "a little castle beside the loch in a wood." "Go not, go not," said she ; 
"there never went man to this castle that returned." ( Highland Tales. Yol. 
I., p. 82 .) 


j 


I ZING AN E E WANE. 


SG 


omabili endAlela, za pa/da indAlela. 
Z a ti, " Bahhwebu, si tshele ni 
uAlanga olu/de lapa lwentombi ; lo 
si 'mitimba 'mibili." Ba t' aba- 
hhwebu, "U mu/de, tintakabazana; 
11 nge fike kuntombinde wenkosi, 
o ng' ukgwekgwana lotshani ; o 
ng' amafuta okupekwa ; o ng' in- 
yongo yembuzi." Ba ba bulala 
laba abahliwebu, be bulawa umti- 
mba katintakabazana. 


on this side and that. They said, 
"Merchants, tell us which is the 
prettiest girl here ; for we are two 
wedding companies." The mer- 
chants said, " You are beautiful, 
Utintakabazana ; but you are not 
equal to Untombinde, the king's 
child, who is like a spread-out sur- 
face of good green grass ; who is 
like fat for cooking ; who is like a 
goat's gall-bladder ! " 61 The mar- 
riage company of Utintakabazana 
killed these merchants. 


They arrive at the Ihdange, and bathe : the Isikquk(\umadevu steals 

their clothes. 


Ba fika ke emfuleni elulange. 
Ba be pake ingasota ; ba be pake 
imbedu ; ba be pake iminaka ; ba 
be bince imintsha yendondo. Ba 
i kumula, ba i beka ngapezulu 
kwesiziba solange. Ba ngena, ba 
bukuda yomibili imitimba. Ba 
bukuda, ba puma. Kwa puma 
inye intombazana, ya fumanisa 
iminaka i nga se ko yonke, nem- 
bedu zonke, nengicota, nemintsha 
yendondo. Ya ti, " Puma ni ; 
izinto ka zi se ko." Ba puma 
bonke. Ya ti inkosazana Unto- 
mbinde, "'Kw enziwa njani na h " 
Ya t' enye intombi, "A si bonge. 
Izinto zi muke nesik^uk^uma- 
devu." Ya t' enye intombazana, 
" Sik^uk^umadevu, ngi nike izinto 
zaini, ngi muke. Ngr' enziwe 
Untombinde wenkosi, o te, 'Kwa 


So they arrived at the river Uu- 
lange. They had put on bracelets, 
and ornaments for the breast, and 
collars, and petticoats ornamented 
with brass beads. They took them 
off, and placed them on the banks 
of the pool of the Ilulange. They 
went in, and both marriage com- 
panies sported in the water. When 
they had sported, they went out. 
A little girl went out, and found 
nothing there, neither the collars, 
nor the ornaments for the breast, 
nor the bracelets, nor the petticoats 
ornamented with brass beads. She 
said, " Come out ; the things are 
no longer here." All went out. 
Untombinde, the princess, said, 
" What can we do ? " One of the 
girls said, " Let us petition. The 
things have been taken away by 
the Isik^uk^umadevu ." 62 Another 
said, " Thou, Isikgukgumadevu, 
give me my things, that I may 
depart. I have been brought into 
this trouble by Untombinde, the 
king's child, who said, ' Men bathe 


61 These are terms of flattering admiration. The gall-bladder of the goat, 
inflated and dried, and stuck in the hair, is a sign of having been honourably 
received at the place where a person has been sent as a messenger. 

62 Isik^uk/umadevu, A bloated, squatting, bearded monster. 

Some natives suppose that the Talc of the Isik^ukr/umadevu is a fabulous 
account of the first large ship that appeared to their fathers, being probably a 
slaver. Others think it is a corrupted tradition of Noah's ark. See appendix 
at the end of this tale. 


UNTOMBINDE. 


57 


kcibi-kulu ku ya gezwa : kwa ku 
geza aobaba bamandulo.' U mina 
ngi ku bangela Intontela 1 " Sa m 
nikela umuntsba. Ya k^ala enye 
intombi, ya si bonga, ya ti, " Si- 
k^uk^ umadevu, ngi nike izinto 
zami, ngi muke. Ng' enziwe Un- 
tombinde wenkosi ; wa ti, ' Ku- 
kcibi-kulu ku ya gezwa : kwa ku 
geza, aobaba bamandulo.' U mina 
ngi ku bangele Intontela?" Wa 
kyala umtimba wonke, wa za wa 
pela, w' enza njalo. Kwa salela 
yena Untombinde wenkosi. 


in the great pool : our first fathers 
bathed there.' Is it I who bring 
down upon you Intontela 1 " 63 The 
Isikguk^umadevu gave her the 
petticoat. Another girl began, 
and besought the Isikguk^uma- 
devu : she said, " Thou, Isikgui- 
k^umadevu, just give me my 
things, that I may depart. I have 
been brought into this trouble by 
Untombinde, the king's child ; she 
said, ' At the great pool men 
bathe : our first fathers used to 
bathe there.' Is it I who have 
brought down upon you Into- 
ntela ? " The whole marriage com- 
pany began, until every one of 
them had done the same. There 
remained Untombinde, the king's 
child, only. 


Untombinde refuses to 'petition the I siTcqiikqumadevu, and the monster 

seizes her. 


Wa t' umtimba, " Bonga, nto- 
mbinde, Usikgukgaimadevu." W'a- 
la, wa ti, "A ng' 'uze nga si 
bonga Isik^uk^umadevu, ng' um- 
nta wenkosi." Sa m tabata Isi- 
kgukgumadevu, sa m paka kona 
esizibeni. 


The marriage party said, " Be- 
seech Usikguk^umadevu, 64 Un- 
tombinde." She refused, and said, 
" I will never beseech the Isikgu- 
k^umadevu, I being the king's 
child." The Isikguk^umadevu 
seized her, and put her into the 
pool. 


The other girls lament her , and return to tell the tale. 


Intombi ezinye za kala, za kala, 
z' esuka, za hamba. 2a fika ekaya 
enkosini ; za fika, za ti, " U tatwe 
Isik^uk^umadevu U ntombinde. " 
Wa t' uyise, " Kade nga ngi m 


The other girls cried, and cried, 
and then went home. When they 
arrived, they said, " Untombinde 
has been taken away by the Isi- 
k^uk^umadevu." Her father said, 
" A long time ago I told Untom- 


63 Intontela . — The name of one of the military kraals of the Zulu king. 
The use of this word suggests either that the Tale is of recent origin, or has 
undergone modern corruption. It may, however, be an old name adopted by 
the Zulus. The question implies that armies were sent to contend with the 
monster. 

64 They here say, not IsikgukgTimadevu, but Usikpik^umadevu ; thus flat- 
tering and magnifying the monster by giving it a personal name. It is some- 
thing as though they said, " My Lady, Usikpikgumadevu." 


58 


IZINGA^ErWANE. 


tshela U ntombinde ; ng' ala nga 
ti, ' Elulange a ku yi, lu buya ko : 
ku ya 'ayela futi.' Nanko ke u 
yela futi." 

The king sends an army against ih 
and the wl 

Ya t' inkosi ya kipa amabandAla 
ezinsizwa, ya ti, " Ilainba ni, ni 
lande Isikguk^umadevu, esi bulele 
U ntombinde." A fika emfuleni 
amaband/da, a Alangana naso se si 
pumile, se si /dezi ngapand/de. 
Si ngangentaba. Se si tika si i 
ginga yonke impi leyo ; se si 
hamba si ya kona emzini vvenkosi ; 
si fika si ba ginga abantu bonke, 
nezinja; sa ba ginga izwe lonke 
kanye nenkomo. Sa fika sa ginga 
abantwana kulelo 'zwe be babili ; 
be amapa/da, izibakxa. 


A father , who escaped, pursues U 


binde so ; I refused her, say- 
ing, ' To the Ilulange, nothing 
goes to that place and returns 
again : it goes there for ever.' 
Behold, she goes there for ever." 

s monster ; the monster destroys it, 
)le country. 

The king mustered the troops of 
young men, and said, " Go and 
fetch the Isik^ukgumadevu, which 
has killed XJntombinde." The 
troops came to the river, and fell 
in with it, it having already come 
out of the water, and being now 
on the bank. It was as big as a 
mountain. It came and swallowed 
all that army ; and then it went 
to the very village of the king; 
it came, and swallowed up all men 
and dogs ; it swallowed them up 
the whole country, together with 
the cattle. It swallowed up two 
children in that country ; they 
were twins, beautiful children, 
and much beloved. 

e I sik(\uk(\umadevu, and kills it. 


Se ku sinda uyise kuleyo 'ndAlu ; 
se i hamba indoda i tata amawisa 
ainabili, i ti, " Mina, ngi ya 'ubu- 
lalalsikgukgumadevu." Se i tata 
umdAludAlu wayo womkonto ; i se 
hamba. Se i Alangana nenyati, se 
i ti, " U ye ngapi Usik^ukguma- 
devu ? U muke nabantwana 
barni." Se zi ti izinyati, " U funa 
Unomabunge, O-gaul'-iminga." Se 
zi ti, " Pambili ! pambili ! Ma- 

63 Unomabunge, Mother of beetles, 
was a female. O-gaur-iminga, The fell 

66 This reminds one of tlie man wh 
godfather : on reaching the house he fir 
and on enquiring where the godfather 1 
succession, ' ' One flight of stairs higher, 
flight." ( " The Godfather. " Grimm. 


But the father escaped from that 
house ; and the man went, taking 
two clubs, saying, "It is I who 
will kill the Isikgukgumadevu." 
And he took his large assagai and 
went on his way. He met with 
some buffaloes, and said, "Whither 
has Usik^ukgmadevu gone? She 
has gone away with my children." 
The buffaloes said, " You are seek- 
ing Unomabunge, O-gaur-iminga . 65 
Forward ! forward ! 66 Our mo- 

This name shows that the monster 
r of lofty thorn-trees, 
pays a visit to his child's mysterious 
Is inanimate things talking and acting ; 
red, receives for answer, from each in 
* "Up another flight. " ' * Up another 

Op. cit., p. 170. J 


UNTOM13IND3. 


59 


metu ! " Se i /Jangana nezilo, se 
i ti, " Ngi funa U sikgaikgumadevu, 
o muke nabantwana bami." Se zi 
t' izilo, " U funa Unomabunge, 
O -gaul'-i m in ga, O-nsiba-zimakge- 
mbe. Pambili ! pambili ! Ma- 

metu ! " Se i Zdangana nend/dovu, 
se i ti, " Ngi buza Usik^uk^uma- 
devu, o muke nabantwana bami." 
Se i ti, " U bula Unomabunge, 
O-gaur-iminga, O-nsiba-zimakge- 
mbe. Pambili ! pambili ! Ma- 

metu!" Se. i fika kuyena Uno- 
mabunge : indoda i m fumana e 
k^ukgubele, e ngangentaba. Se i 
ti, " Ngi funa Usik^uk^umadevu, 
o tata abantwana bami." Se si ti, 
" U funa Unomabunge ; u funa 
O-gaul'-iminga, O-nsiba-zimakge- 


ther ! " 67 He then met with some 
leopards, and said, " I am looking 
for Usik^uk^umadevu, who has 
gone off with my children." And 
the leopards said, " You are looking 
for Unomabunge, O-gaur-iminga , 
O-nsiba-zimakgembe . 08 Forward ! 
forward ! Our mother ! " Then 
he met with an elephant, and said, 
" I enquire for Usikguk^umadevu, 
who has gone away with my chil- 
dren. It said, "You mean Uno- 
mabunge, O-gaur-iminga, O-nsiba- 
zimak^embe. Forward ! forward ! 
Our mother ! " Then he came 
to Unomabunge herself: the man 
found her crouched down, being 
as big as a mountain. And he 
said, "I am seeking Usikgmk^u- 
madevu, who is taking away my 
children." And she said, " You are 
seeking Unomabunge ; you are 
seeking O-gaul'-iminga, O-nsiba- 


67 "Mametu !" an oath. The essence of the Zulu oath consists, not so 
much in swearing by a person, as in calling upon him in an elliptical sentence, 
the meaning of which would be quite unsuspected by the uninitiated. ' ' M%- 
metu," my mother, means in the native mind, What I say is true, if not I could 
be guilty of incest with my mother. The Zulu swears thus by his nearest rela- 
tives, e. g. y "Mametu," my mother ; "Dade wetu," my sister ; or, "Nobani 
wetu," my So-and-So, mentioning his sister by name; "Mkwekazi," my 
mother-in-law; or "Bakwekazi," all the wives of my father-in-law. So the 
women swear in like manner : " Bane wetu," my brothers ; " Bafana," boys of 
my kraal ; " Omkulu w r aodade," father of my sisters-in-law ; or "Mezala" ; or 
"Ngi funga ubaba"; or "Ngi funga aban/doni," I swear by those who are 
reverenced, viz., fathers, brothers, &c., or simply "Ben/doni." 

Another common oath is by the names of the chief, as ' ' Tshaka " * 
"Dingan" ; "Kukulela." But a man does not swear by his wife, child, or 
brother. He swears by his father when dead, "Ngi funga ubaba," which is 
equivalent to saying, I could disinter and eat my father, if it is not true ; or, 
" Ngi nga ngi d/da ubaba," I might eat my father ; or simply, " Matambo ka- 
baba," my father's bones ; or "Baba," my father.^ 

A chief or great man sv r ears by Ikwantandane, that is, a place in Zululand 
where Usenzangakona and Utshaka are buried. They use this formula, "Ngi 
m pande e kwantandane, " I could scratch him up at Ikwantandane ; that is, I could 
disinter the chief buried there ; or simply " Kwantandane. " Thus Kwantandane 
is equivalent to swearing by the inviolability of the king's grave. Other oaths 
are of a similar character ; " Ngi ngene enkosini," I could enter the king's pre- 
sence ; "Ngi ngene esigod/dweni," I could go into the king's palace ; or simply, 
"Sigod/do"; "Ngi ngene emapotweni," I could enter the harem ; or simply, 
" Mapote." 

Another oath is by the grave of a nameless king. ' ' Ngi funga inkosi i 
kwadukuza," I swear by the king, he being at the kraal of Udukuza ; or simply, 
" Dukuza." 

68 O-nsiba-zimakgembe, One whose feathers are long and broad. 


60 


IZIXG ANEXWANE. 


mbe. Pambili ! pambili ! Ma- 
metu ! " Se i fika, se i si gwaza 
isigak^a ; se si fa Isik^ukyuma- 
devu. 

All that the I sikogukopumadevu h 
body , and U ntornb 

So ku puma inkomo, so ku 
puma inja, so ku puma umuntu 
nabantu bonke ; se ku puma yena 
Untombinde. Lowo ke e se fika 
Untombinde, e buyela kona enko- 
sini uyise Usikulumi ka/doko- 
Aloko ; e se fika e tatwa Un/datu, 
umunta wenkosi Usibilingwana. 


zimak^embe. Forward ! forward ! 
Our mother ! " Then the man 
came and stabbed the lump ; and 
so the Isikguk^umadevu died . 69 

d devoured come out of its dead 
nde among the rest. 

And then there came out (of her) 
cattle, and dogs, and a man, and all 
the men ; and then Untombinde 
herself came out. And when she 
had come out, she returned to her 
father, Usikulumi, the son of 
Uthlokothloko. When she arrived, 
she was taken by Unthlatu , 70 the 
son of Usibilingwana, to be his 
wife. 


Untombinde goes to Unthlatu' s people to be acknowledged , but finds 
no bridegroom. 


Wa s' emuka Untombinde, e ya 
'kuma. E fik' e ma ngasen/da. 
Se ku tiwa, " U ze 'kwendela ku- 
banina?" Wa ti, " Kun/datu." 
Ku tiwa, " U pi na?" Wa ti, 
" Ng' ezwa ku tiwa inkosi Usibi- 
lingwana u zele inkOsi." Kwa 
tiwa, " Amanga : ka ko. Kodwa 


Untombinde went to take her 
stand in her bridegroom's kraal . 71 
On her arrival she stood at the 
upper part of the kraal. They 
asked, " Whom have you come to 
marry 1 ?" She said, "Unthlatu." 
They said, " Where is he ! " She 
said, " I heard said that king Usi- 
bilingwana has begotten a king." 
They said, " Not so : he is not 


69 Whakatau was more successful. When Hine-i-te-iwaiwa at length 
reaches him, and asks, "Can you tell me where I can find Whakatau ? " he 
misleads her by replying, "You must have passed him as you came here." 
(Grey. Op. cit., p. 1180 

70 In/datu, A boa-constrictor. Un/datu, The boa-man. It is clear, not- 
withstanding the explanation of the name given in the Tale,* viz., that when an 
infant he was wrapped in a boa's skin, that Unthlatu had a peculiar snake-like 
appearance. His skin was bright and slippeiy. Compare "The Serpent," in 
the Pentamerone. A prince is "laid under a spell by the magic of a wicked 
ogress to pass seven years in the form of a serpent." In which form he loves 
and woos a king's daughter. 

71 When a young woman is going to be married, she goes to the kraal of the 
bridegroom, to stand there. She stands without speaking. Her an'ival may be 
expected or not by the bridegroom's people ; but they understand the object of 
her visit. If they like her they "acknowledge" her by killing a goat, which 
is called the imvuina, and entertain her kindly. If they do not like her, they 
give her a burning piece of firewood, to intimate that there is no fire in that 
kraal for her to warm herself by ; she must go and kindle a fire for herself. — It 
appears to be the custom among the Polynesians also for the young woman to 
" run away " to the bridegroom, as the first step towards marriage. ( Grey , Op. 
cit., p. 238.^ 


UNTO !*I B IN DE. 


Cl 


wa ka Ava zala ; Ava ti uma e 
umfana Ava laMeka." Wa kala 
unina, ukuti, "Le intombi i b' i 
zAve ku tiAva ni na ] Lo 'mntwana 
nga m zala Avamunye ; wa laMeka, 
kwa ukupela na!" Ya Mala 
intombi. Uyise inkosi Ava ti, "I 
Malele ni na Kwa tiwa, " Ka 
i muke." Ya buya va ti inkosi, 
" Ka i /dale ; loku amadodana ami 
a kona, i ya 'uzekwa i avo." 
Y' akelwa indMu, ya /dala kona 
end/din i. Ba ti abantu, " A i 

Male nonina." W' ala unina, Ava 
ti, " Ka y akelwe ind/du." 


Untombinde receives a nocturnal 

dep 

Ku te uma y akhve ind/du, 
unina Ava bek' amasi nenyama 
notshwala. Ya ti intombi, " U 
ku bekela ni loku na]" Wa ti, 
" Kgi be ngi ku beka, noma u nga 
ka fiki." Ya tula ke intombi, ya 
lala. Ku te ebusuku A\ r a fika 
Un/datu, Ava ka emasini, wa d/da 
inyam a, Ava puza utshwala. Wa 
Mala, Ava /dala, Ava puma. 


Untombinde is troubled < 

Ku te kusasa Untombinde Ava 
sibukula emasini ; wa fumana ku 
kiwe : Ava sibukula enyameni ; wa 
bona i d/diwe : wa sibukula e- 
tshAvaleni ; wa fumana se bu d/di- 
we. Wa ti, " O, umarne u beke 
loku 'kud/da. Ku za 'utiwa ku 


72 Na is not here an interrogate, 

73 That is, for tlie purpose of eatii 
out, that is, eaten. 


here. But he did beget a son ; 
but Avhen he was a boy he was 
lost." The mother Avept, saying, 
" What did the damsel hear re- 
ported ? I gaA T e birth to one child ; 
he Avas lost : there Avas no other ! " 72 
The girl remained. The father, 
the king, said, " Why has she re- 
mained ] " The people said, " Let 
her depart." The king again said, 
" Let her stay, since there are sons 
of mine here ; she shall become 
their Avdfe." She had a house built 
for her, and she remained there in 
the house. The people said, " Let 
her stay Avith her mother." The 
mother refused, saying, " Let her 
have a house built for her." 

visitor , who eats and drinks , and 
irts. 

It came to pass that, Avhen the 
house was built, the mother put in 
it sour milk, and meat, and beer. 
The girl said, " Why do you put 
this here]" She said, "loused 
to place it even before you 
came." The girl was silent, 
and lay doAvn. And in the 
night Unthlatu came ; he took out 
freon the sour milk , 73 he ate the 
meat, and drank the beer. lie 
stayed a long time, and then went 
out. 

i finding the fiood gone. 

In the morning Untombinde 
uncovered the sour milk ; she 
found some had been taken out : she 
uncovered the meat ; she saw that 
it had been eaten : she uncovered 
the beer; she found that it had 
been drunk. She said, "0, mother 
placed this food here. It Avill be 

ut a strong affirmative. 

; ; and below, the milk had been taken 


62 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ntshontshwe u mina." Wa ngena 
unina ; wa sibukula, wa ti, "Ku 
dAliwa ini na ?" Wa ti, " Ka 
ng' azi." Wati, " Nami ngi bone 
se ku d/diwe." Wa ti, "Ku ni 
zwanga lo 'muntu na?" Wa ti, 
" K^a." 


said that I have stolen it." The 
mother came in ; she uncovered 
the food, and said, " What has 
eaten it ? " She said, " I do not 
know. I too saw that it had been 
eaten." She said, " Did you not 
hear the man ? " She said, "No." 


U ntombinde receives a second visit , and the 'person speaks to her. 


La tshona ilanga. Ba ku d/da 
loko 'kud/da okutatu. Kwa /da- 
tshwa intondolo. Kwa bckwa 
inyama, kwa bekwa amas', kwa 
bekwa utshwala. Kwa Aiwa, kwa 
lalwa. Wa ngena Un/datu ; wa i 
pumputa iutombi ebusweni. Ya 
vuka. Wa ti, " U zokwenza ni 
lapa na ? " Ya ti intombi, " Ngi 
zokwendsl" Wa ti, " Kubani na ?" 
Ya ti intombi, " K un/datu." Wa 
ti, "U pi na?" Ya ti, "Wa 
la/deka." Wa ti, " Kepa wa la- 
/dcka njalo, u gana kubani na?" 
Ya ti, " Kuyena." Wa ti, " Ni 
ya m azi ini ukuba u ya 'kuvela 
na ? <w Wa ti, " Loku amadodana 
enkosi e kona, a u gani kuwo na, 
uma ni /dalele umuntu owa la /de- 
kayo na?" Wa ti, " DAlana, si 
d/de inyama." Ya t' intombi, "A 
ngi ka i d/di inyama." Wa ti 
Un/datu, " Amanga. Nami, um- 
nyeni wako u ya ba nikela abami 
be nga ka i d/di, ba i d/de." Wa 
ti, " Puza, namp' utshwala." Ya 
ti, " Utshwala a ngi ka bu d/di ; 
ngoba ka ngi ka /datshiswa." 


The sun set. They 74 ate those 
three kinds of food. A wether 
was slaughtered. There was placed 
meat ; there was placed sour milk ; 
and there was placed beer, in the 
house. It became dark, and she 
lay down. Unthlatu came in ; he 
felt the damsel's face. She awoke. 
He said, " What are you about to 
do here ? " She said, " I come 
to be married." He said, "To 
whom ? " The girl said, " To 
Unthlatu." He said, " Where is 
he ? " She replied, " He was lost." 
He said, " But since he was thus 
lost, to whom do you marry ? " 
She said. " To him only." He 
said, "Do you know that he will 
come ? " He said, " Since there are 
the king's sons, why do you not 
marry them, rather than wait for 
a man that is lost?" He said, 
" Eat, let us eat meat." The girl 
said, "I do not yet eat meat ." 75 
Unthlatu said, "Not so. As 
regards me too, your bridegroom 
gives my people meat before 
the time of their eating it, and 
they eat." He said, " Drink, 
there is beer." She said, " I do 
not yet drink beer; for I have not 
yet had the imvuma slaughtered 
forme." He said, " Not so. Your 


74 Unthlatu's people, that is, those belonging to his mother's house in the 
royal kraal, ate what remained of the sour milk, meat, and beer„ 

76 A damsel may not eat meat or amasi in her lover's kraal, until she is 
actually married. 


UNTOMBINDE. 


G3 


\Va ti, " Amanga ; nomyeni 
wako u ya ba nikela abami 
utshwala, be nga ka Alatshiswa." 
Kwa sa, wa puma ; u kuluma 
njalo, intombi aim boni. Ama- 
suku onke lawo u y' ala entombini, 
i ti, i ya 'uvutela umlilo. Wa 
puma. Intombi y' esuka, e ya 
'kupumputa esi/dakeni, i ti, "A 
ngi zwe, lo be ngi valile, uma u 
pumepina?" Ya fumana ku sa 
valwe ngokuvala kwayo ; ya ti, 
" Lo 'muntu u pume pi na " 


bridegroom too gives my people 
beer before they have had any 
thing killed for them." In the 
morning he went away ; he speak- 
ing continually, the girl not seeing 
him. During all those days he 
would not allow the girl, when she 
said she would light a fire. 76 He 
went out. The girl arose, going to 
feel at the wicker door, saying, 
" Let me feel, since I closed it, 
where he went out h " She found 
that it was still closed with her 
own closing ; and said, " Where 
did the man go out h " 


Untombinde receives a third visit , and the visitor makes himself 

known . 


Wa ngena unina kusasa, wa ti, 
" Mngane, u b' u kuluma nobani 
na % " Ya ti, " Kga ; be ngi nga 
kulumi namuntu." Wa ti, " Ku 
be ku d/da ubani na lapa ekud/deni 
na % " Ya ti, " Ka ng' azi." Ba 
ku d/da loko 'kud/da. Kwa vezwa 
okwobutatu. Ba ku peka utshwala 
nenyama namasi. Kwa /dwa, wa 
fika Un/datu, wa m pumputa ebu- 
sweni, wa ti, " Vuka." Wa vuka 
Untombinde. Wa ti Un/datu, 
"Ngi kgalele elunyaweni, u ngi 
pumpute, u fike en/doko, u zwe 
uba ngi njani na." Ya m pumputa 
intombi ; ya fumana umzimba o 
tshelelayo ; w' ala ukubambela 
izand/da. Wa ti, "U ya tanda 
ini uma ngi ti vutele na ? " Ya 
ti intombi, " Yebo." Wa ti, " Ngi 
shiyele uguai ke." Ya m shiyela. 
Wa ti, "A ngi ncikide kuwe kwe- 
sako isand/da." Wa ncikida, wa 
bema. Wa tsliak' amate. Amate a 


The mother came in the morn- 
ing, and said, " My friend, with 
whom were you speaking % " She 
said, " No ; I was speaking with 
no one." She said, "Who was 
eating here of the food?" She 
said, " I do not know." They 
ate that food also. There was 
brought out food for the third 
time. They cooked beer and meat, 
and prepared sour milk. In the 
evening Untlilatu came, and felt 
her face, and said, " Awake." 
Untombinde awoke. Untlilatu 
said, " Begin at my foot, and feel 
me till you come to my head, that 
you may know what I am like." 
The girl felt him ; she found that 
the body was slippery ; it would 
not allow the hands to grasp it. 
He said, " Do you wish that I 
should tell you to light the fire 1 " 
She said, " Yes." He said, " Give 
me some snuff then." She gave 
him snuff. He said, " Let me 
take a pinch from your hand." He 
took a pinch, and sniffed it. He 


76 So Cupid visits Psyche unseen and unknown every night, leaving her at 
the dawn of day. In the Neapolitan tales, a fairy falls in love with a prince, 
and in like manner visits him every night, without making herself known, or 
allowing herself to be seen. ( Pentamerone. " The Myrtle."^ 


K 


64 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


spat. The spittle said, 77 " Hail, 
king ! thou black one ! thou who 
art as big as the mountains ! " 
He took a pinch ; he spat ; the 
spittle said, " Hail, chief ! hail, 
thou who art as big as the moun- 
tains ! " He then said, " Light 
the fire." Untombinde lighted 
it, and saw a shining body. The 
girl was afraid, and wondered, 
and said, " I never saw such a 
body." 78 He said, "In the morning 
whom will you say you have 
seen ? " She said, " I shall say 
that I have seen no one." He 
said, " What will you say to that 
your mother, 79 who gave birth to 
Unthlatu, because she is troubled 
at his disappearance 1 What does 
your mother say ? " She replied, 
" She weeps and says, ' I wonder 
by whom it has been eaten. 
Would that I could see the man 
who eats this food.* " He said, 
" I am going away." The girl 
said, " And you, where do you 
live, since you were lost when a 
little child 1 " He said, " I live 
underground." She asked, " Why 
did you go away ? " He said, " I 
went away on account of my 
brethren : they were saying that 
they would put a clod of earth into 

77 In one of the versions of " The Battle of the Birds," the Giant's Daugh- 
ter, before setting out with the king's son, "spat at the front of her own bed, 
and spat at the side of the giant's bed, and spat at the passage door." " The 
giant awoke, and shouted, ' ' Rise, daughter, and bring me a drink of the blood 
of the king's son." " I will arise," said the spittle in front of his bed. When 
he shouted again the second and third time, the spittle at the side of her bed, 
and at the door, answered. (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. I.) 

78 The Zulu very frequently expresses a strong affirmation by a negation, 
as : — A li lihle leli ' hashi , The horse is not beautiful ; it is more, very beautiful 
indeed. A Tcu si yo indhlala la-pa , inkulu, There is no famine here, it is great : 
that is, We have nothing whatever to eat. Here we have an affirmation to ex- 
press a strong negative, Nga za nga u bona umzimba onje — A ngi bonanga ngi 
bona umzimba onje. Lit., I came I saw such a body, I at length saw, &c. So 
below, Sa za sa m bona umuntu onje , o ''mzimba u nga fani nowabantu , We 
never saw such a man, whose body does not resemble the body of men. It is 
another instance of the interjectional aorist. 

79 The wife calls her husband's mother, Mother. 


ti, " Yeti, nkosi ! wen umnyama ! 
wen' ungangezintaba ! " Wa nci- 
kida, wa tshaka amate ; a ti, 
" Yeti, nkosi ! yeti, wen' ongange- 
zintaba!" Wa ti ke, "Vutela 
umlilo." Wa u vutela Untombi- 
nde, wa fumana umzimba okazi- 
mulayo. Y' esaba intombi, ya 
mangala, ya ti, " Nga za nga u 
bona umzimba onje." Wa ti, " U 
ya 'kuti kusasa u bon' ubani na 1 " 
Ya ti, "Ngi ya 'kuti, A ngi bona- 
nga 'muntu." Wa ti, " U ya 'kuti 
ni kulo 'nyoko owa zala LJn/datu 
na, ngokuba u ya /dupeka na, 
ngokuba wa nyamalala na? U ti 
ni yena unyoko na ? " Ya ti, " U 
ya kala, u ti, kazi ku d/diwe 
ubani na : ungaba ngi nga bona lo 
'muntu o d/da loku 'kud/da." Wa 
ti, " Ngi y' emuka." Ya t' into- 
mbi, " Wena u 7d ala pi na, lo wa 
la/deka umneinane nje na? " Wa 
ti, " Ngi h \ ala pantsi." Ya ti, 
" W' emukela ni na?" Wa ti, 
" Ng' emukela abafo wetu : ba be 
ti b' eza 'u ngi faka igade empi- 


UNTOMBINDE. 


Go 


njeni ; ngoba be hliauka, ngoba 
ku tiwa ngi inkos'. Ba ti, ' Ini 
uma inkosi i be ncinane ; ku ti 
tina si bakulu si Male na ? ' " 


my windpipe ; 80 for they were 
jealous, because it was said that I 
was king. They said, ' Why 
should the king be young, whilst 
we who are old remain, sub- 
jects?' " 81 


Unthlatu tells Untombinde to call his mother. 


Wa ti entombini, " Hamba ke, 
u ye 'kubiza unyoko lowo o Mupe- 
kayo." Wa ngena unina, e fike 
nayo intombi. Wa fika wa kala 
unina, e kala kancinane isigu- 
ngwana. Wa ti, "Nga ngi ti ni 
ke na % Nga ti, 1 Umntanami owa 
laMekayo owa e 'mzimba obutshe- 
lezi.' " Wa e se ti, "Wo ti ni 
kubaba ? " " A ku gay we utshwala 
izwe lonke." 


He said to the girl, " Go and 
call that your mother who is afflict- 
ed." The mother came in with 
the girl. The mother wept, weep- 
ing a little in secret. She said, 
" What then did I say ? I said, 
' It is my child who was lost, who 
had the smooth body.' " He then 
said, " What will you say to my 
father ? " She said, " I will say, 
Let the whole country brew 
beer ." S2 


Unthlatu' s mother tells his father of Unthlatu' s return and the nation 

is assembled. 


Wa e se ti uyise, " Bu za 'kwe- 
nza ni na ? " S' e ti unina, " Ngi 
za 'ubona abantu ; ngoba nga ngi 
inkosikazi. Nga kitshwa ngoku- 


The father said, " What is the 
beer to do?" The mother said, 
" I am going to see the people ; 
for I used to be queen. I was de- 


80 It was formerly a custom, if a woman gave birth to twins, to kill one by 
placing a clod of earth in its mouth, so as to obstruct the respiration ; for they 
supposed that if both were allowed to live, they would destroy the father's 
strength. Also in time of famine the father would sometimes kill a young 
infant in the same way, to preserve the mother's strength. So here Unthlatu's 
brothers purpose to kill him by a similar method. 

81 Here we have the tale so common among all people, where a younger 
brother is represented as an object of jealousy and enmity, or of contempt and 
neglect, is persecuted, and an attempt made on his life ; but he escapes, and 
becomes a great man, superior to all. There is the beautiful, touching history 
of Joseph in the Holy Scriptures. In the Hawaiian traditions we have the 
legend of Waikelenuiaiku ( Hopkins, Hawaii, p. 67 ). That of Hatupatu in the 
Polynesian Mythology, who on his return is as much admired for his noble looks 
as Unthlatu : —"Hatupatu now came out of the storehouse, and as his brothers 
gazed on him, they saw his looks were most noble ; glared forth on them the 
eyes of the young man, and glittered forth the mother-of-pearl eyes of the 
carved face on the handle of his sword, and when the many thousands of their 
tribe who had gathered round saw the youth, they too were quite astonished at 
his nobleness ; they had no strength left, they could do nothing but admire 
him : he was only a little boy when they had seen him before, and now, when 
they met him again, he was like a noble chief, and they now looked upon his 
brothers with very different eyes from those with which they looked at him." 
(Grey, Op. cit., p. 191.^ See also "The Brown Bear of the Green Glen." 
Campbell, Op. cit. Vol. I., p. 164. "The Golden Bird," and "The Three 
Feathers." Grimm, Op. cit., p. 226, and p. 227. 

82 Equivalent to saying, " I will assemble the whole nation." 


66 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngabi namTltwana. ,, Se bu gaywa 
ke utshwala ; se be Meka abantu, 
be ti, " U tumela utshwala. U za 
'wenza ni na, lo so kwa ba isaliwa- 
kazi nje na, sa puma ebukosiniT' 
Ba vutwa utshwala ; ba butana 
abantu ; ya ngena impi pakati 
kwesibaya, i /dome izi/dangu, ya 
pelela yonke. Wa buka uyise, wa 
ti, " Ngi za 'ubona oku za 'wenzi- 
wa u lo 'mfazi." 


Unthlatu makes himself knovm 

Wa puma ke Un/datu. Abantu 
ba kcitsheka ame/do ngokukazi- 
mula kwomzimba wake. Ba ma- 
ngala, ba ti, "Sa za sa m bona 
umuntu onje, o 'mzimba u nga 
fani nowabantu." Wa /dala ke. 
Kwa so ku mangala uyise. Se ku 
d/dalwa umkosi. Se ku tshaywa 
izing^ong^o zamahhau, o nganga- 
makosi onke. Untombinde e se 
nikelwa umsila wesilo ; unina e se 
nikelwa umsila wensimba ; se u 
d/dala ke umkosi ; Un/datu e se 
bekwa ke e buyiselwa ebukosini. 
Se ukupela kwayo ke. 

Umangali kandhlovu (Leah). 


posed because I had no child." 
So the beer was brewed ; and the 
people laughed, saying, " She sends 
for beer. What is she going to 
do, since she was the rejected one, 
and was deposed ? " The beer was 
ready ; the people came together ; 
the soldiers went into the cattle 
enclosure; they had shields, and 
were all there. The father looked 
on and said, " I shall see presently 
what the woman is about to do." 

to his father and to the nation. 

Unthlatu came out. The eyes 
of the people were dazzled by the 
brightness of his body. They 
wondered, and said, "We never 
saw such a man, whose body does 
not resemble the body of men." 
He sat down. The father won- 
dered. A great festival was kept. 83 
Then resounded the shields of Un- 
thlatu, who was as great as all kings. 
Untombinde was given a leopard's 
tail ; 84 and the mother the tail of 
a wild cat ; 85 and the festival was 
kept, Unthlatu being again re- 
stored to his position as king. So 
that is an end of the tale. 


ANOTHER VERSION OF A PORTION OF THE TALE. 


The pigeons foretell the birth of Unthlatu. 


Ukuzalwa kukan/datu. Wa 
zalwa ngokubikwa amavukutu ; a 
fika kunina emabili ; la t' elinye, 
" Vukutu." Elinye, "U ti ' Yu- 
kutu ' ni, loku e nga zali na 1 " 
Elinye la ti, "Vukutu; u m azi 


The birth of Unthlatu. He 
was bom in accordance with the 
prophecy of pigeons ; two came to 
the mother; one said, "Vukutu." 86 
The other said, " Why do you say 
' Vukutu,' since she has no chil- 
dren ? " The other said, " Vu- 


83 Ukudhlala umkosi will be explained in another place. 

84 The sign of being the queen or chief wife, the mother of the future 
sovereign. 

83 The sign that she is no longer queen, because a new king has taken the 
government, and his wife is therefore queen, — a sign of her being "queen 
dowager." 

88 Vukutu, the native mode of imitating the cooing of the pigeon. 


UNTOMBINDE. 


67 


ngani ukuba ka zali na?" Wa 
tsho ke unina, ukuti, " U kgini- 
sile; a ngi zali." La t' elinye, 
" Yukutu ; u nga si nika ni, uma 
si ku tshela ukuba u ya 'kuzala 
na ? " Wa kipa izinto zake zonke ; 
ka sliiya nakunye ngokutanda 
umntwana. A n^aba ngokuti, 
" Konke loku a si ku fiini. U 
nawo umpanda wezin/dakuva na ?" 
Wa ti, "U kona." A ti, "U 
lete." Wa u tata ke, wa puma 
nawo, wa u bulalela pandAle ; za 
kciteka izinAlakuva ; a zi dAla ke, 
a kgeda. A ti, " Fulatela." A m 
/daba izinAlanga zambili esin^eni, 
a ti, " Se u za 'uzala ke." 'Eniuka 
ke ; naye wa hamba, wa goduka. 
Wa si tata ke isisu. Kepa eku si 
tateni kwake isisu wa jabula ka- 
kulu ; loku wa e kade e nga se 'm- 
fazi waluto ngoku/detshwa ubu- 
nyumba ; loku abanye abafazi ba 
be zala, be zala amakwababa ; kepa 
lawo 'makwababa a Alupa kakulu 
kuleyo 'ndAlu yakwabo-n/datu ngo- 
kukcita umlota ; ya za y' esuswa 
en/da nomuzi y' emiswa esangweni, 
ngokuba e nge 'mfazi waluto. 
En/da nomuzi w' emela ukuba e 
inkosikazi ; futi e intombi yenkosi 
enkulu ; kepa ngoku nga zali kwa- 
ke igama lobukosikazi la ncipa ; i 
ngaloko ke ind/du e ya suswa 
ngako. 


kutu ; how do you know that she 
has no children ? " So the mother 
said, " He is correct ; I have no 
children." The other said, "Yu- 
kutu ; what will you give us if we 
tell you that you shall have a 
child ? " She took out all she had ; 
she did not leave a single thing, 
because she longed for a child. 
They refused, saying, " We do not 
like all this. Have you not a 
vessel full of castor-oil berries'?" 
She said, " There is a pot of ber- 
ries." They said, " Bring it." So 
she took it, and went out with it, 
and broke it outside ; the seeds 
were scattered ; they ate all of 
them. They said, " Turn your 
back to us." They scarified her in 
two places on the loins, and said, 
"You will now have a child." So 
they departed ; and she returned 
home. So she became pregnant. 
And when she became pregnant 
she greatly rejoiced ; for she had 
been for a long time a wife no 
longer of any consequence through 
being reproached with barrenness ; 
but the other wives gave birth, 
giving birth to crows ; but those 
crows caused much trouble in 
TJnthlatu's house by scattering the 
ashes ; 87 at length it was taken away 
from the upper part of the kraal, 
and was placed near the entrance, 
because she was a wife of no con- 
sequence. She had her place at 
the upper part of the kraal be- 
cause she was the queen ; she was 
also the daughter of a great king ; 
but through her not having chil- 
dren, the name of queenship was 
less and less spoken of ; it was on 
this account that the house was 
removed. 


87 Kicabo-rihlatu , Unthlatu's house ; that is, the house of his mother. The 
houses in a polygamic kraal are called after the wives. — "Scattering the ashes," 
that is, the children of the other women came into the hut of Unthlatu's 
mother, and played about the fire-place. This she would have borne from her 
own children, but not from those of other women. 


68 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Untldatu when born is cradled in a boa's skin. 


Kwa ti ngam/da e zala Un/datu 
wa mangala e bona umntwana 
omu/de kakulu. Kwa ku kona 
isikumba sen/datu esa tungwa, si 
vela kubo ; wa m faka sona, wa m 
fi/da ukuze abafazi aba zekwe naye 
ba nga m bnlali ; ngoknba yena e 
zele umuntu, bona be zala izilwane. 
Warn fi/da ngaloko ke : indaba a 
y' ezwakala ewake ; ya za y' ezwa- 
kala kubo lap' e zalwa kona um- 
fazi lo. 


When she gave birth to Unthla- 
tu, she wondered on seeing so very 
beautiful a child. There was there 
a boa's skin which was sewn up ; 
it came from her people ; she put 
it on him ; she concealed him, that 
the wives who had the same hus- 
band as herself might not kill him ; 
for she had given birth to a man ; 
they gave birth to animals. She 
hid him on that account : the 
matter was not mentioned at the 
kraal into which she had married ; 
but it was known at her native 
kraal. 


Unthlatu leaves his mother , to avoid being killed by his brothers. 


Wa fi/dakala ke kakulu ngako 
loko ukwesaba ukubulawa. Unina 
w' a/dukana naye, e nga m tshela- 
nga ukuti, " Marne, ngi y' emuka, 
ngokuba ngi za 'ubulawa." Wa 
hamba ngapand/de kukanina. U- 
nina wa funa wa fun a, w' a/duleka; 
wa dela. Kepa ind/du yona y' a- 
kiwa ngokuti, "A i be kona njalo 
ind/du yake." 


The child, therefore, was dili- 
gently concealed, for fear of 
his being killed. He separated 
from his mother, not having told 
her, " Mother, I am going away, 
for I shall be killed." He went 
independently of his mother. His 
mother sought and sought in vain ; 
and gave up all hope. But his 
house was built ; for it was said, 
" Let his house be there always." 


The mother places food for her lost child. 


Unina wa zinge e tata utshwala 
nenyama nokunye ukud/da, a ku 
beke kona elawini ; ku se kusasa a 
yo'ublieka, a fike, ku d/diwe ka- 
ncinane konke. Kwa ti uma ku 
fike izintombi zi za 'ugana, za bu- 
zwa ukuti, "Ni za kubanina?" 
Za ti, " Kun/datu." Wa kala 

88 Ilau is a term applied to the hut 
for a young married woman, which it is 
this is not attended to the young bride 
by saying, Ngi ' dikazi , I am a widow v 
for whom no ilau is built. The hut of 
not, as a common man, go to his severs 
him in succession. 


The mother habitually took beer 
and meat and other food, and 
placed it there in the youth's 
house ; 88 in the morning when she 
went to see, on her arrival, a 
little of all was eaten. When 
damsels came to marry, they were 
asked, " To whom do you come 1 " 
They said, " To Unthlatu." The 

of a young man ; and to the hut built 
the custom to build with great care ; if 
is offended, and expresses her feelings 
ho has come here to be married again, 
a chief is also called an ilau. He does 
wives' huts, but calls them to live with 


UNTOMBINDE. 


G9 


unina ukuti, "U pi na ? loku a 
ngi m azi mina." Uyise wa ti, 
" A zi yekwe ; a zi nga kitskwa, 
ngokuba a kona amaclodana a ya 
'u zi zeka, uma e nge ko njalo 
UnAlatu." Amaclodana lawo ama- 
kwababa. Kwa za kwa fika Un- 
tombinde, naye e za 'ugana kun- 
/datu. Unina wa ti, " U pi na l " 
TJntombincle wa ti, " A ngi m azi. 
Si zwa ku tiwa u zelwe." Unina 
wa ti, " Wena, ya/dukana nezinye 
izintombi, u ye elawini lapaya, u 
/dale kona weclwa." Nembala ke 
Untombincle wa /dala kona, ngo- 
kuba wa e tanclwa kakulu unina. 
I ngaloko ke Un/datu a za wa 
bonwa ngako ; wa bonwa ngonto- 
mbinde lowo, o yena a m veza 
obala. Ngokufika kukan/datu ebu- 
suku wa fumana Untombinde ; wa 
ti, ka nga m vezi; ekupeleni wa 
bonwa. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


mother cried, saying, " Where is 
he, for I do not know ? " The 
father said, " Let them be left 
alone ; let them not be driven 
away, for there are sons who will 
marry them, although Unthlatu is 
not here at all." Those sons were 
crows. At length Untombinde 
came, she too coming to marry 
Unthlatu. The mother said, 
"Where is he?" Untombinde 
said, "I do not know. We hear 
it said that he has been born." 
The mother said, " Do you separate 
from the other damsels, and go 
into the youth's house yonder, and 
stay there alone." Surely then 
Untombinde remained there be- 
cause she was much loved by the 
mother. It was then by these 
means that Unthlatu was seen 
at last; he was seen by means 
of Untombinde, who was the per- 
son who made him known. 
Through the arrival of Unthlatu 
by night he found Untombinde ; 
he told her not to make him 
known ; but at last he was seen. 


APPENDIX. 


MONSTERS. 

"Tales of giants and monsters," says Tylor, "which stand in direct con- 
nexion with the finding of great fossil bones, are scattered broadcast over the 
mythology of the world." ( Op. cit., p. 314.) A belief in the former existence 
of giants is implied, rather than clearly stated, in the Legends of the Zulus. 
Neither that, nor the belief in monsters, appears to have arisen among them 
from the observation of huge fossil remains. The Isikgukgumadevu is the great 
monster of these Tales. It is a river monster, capable of living on the land. 
It answers to the Kammapa of the Basuto Legends. In the Tale of Usikulumi 
we read of a many -headed monster (p. 43), which was, like the Isikynkf/uma- 
devu, destructive in its usual habits, but proved friendly to Usikulumi. We 
are at once reminded of the many-headed Hydra of antiquity, slain by Her- 
cules ; of the Minotaur, slain by Theseus ; of the sea monster sent by Neptune 
to ravage ^Ethiopia to punish the vanity of Cassiope, which Perseus turned 
into a rock by the magic power of Medusa's head. Again, in the Neapolitan 
Tales, Minuccio is represented as killing, by means of an enchanted leaf, a mon- 
strous dragon, who "tore with his claws, broke in pieces with his head, crushed 
with his tail, craunched with his teeth, poisoned with his eyes, and killed with 
his breath," — a monster which, like the Isikgukoumadevu, " made nothing of 
an army." (" The Dragon." Pentamerone. ) In the Highland Tales we hear 
of a " three-headed monster of the loch," which was about to devour the king's 


70 


IZINGANEKWAtfE. 


daughter, hut was killed by the fisherman's son. (" The Sea Maiden." Camp- 
bell, Op. cit. Vol. I., p. 76. ) In the German Folk-lore we find the Tale of a 
seven-headed dragon, which was killed by the young huntsman. ( li The Two 
Brothers." Grimm's Home Stories, p. 253.) In the Polynesian Mythology, 
Kupe in his wandering is attacked by a "monstrous cuttle-fish," which "raised 
its arms above the waters to catch and devour the canoe, men and all." But 
Kupe kills it with an axe. ( Grey, Op. cit., p. 208.) 

In the legendary lore of the American Indians we read of the monstrous 
Mishe-Nahma, the sturgeon, king of fishes, which 

" Opened its great jaws and swallowed 
Both canoe and Hiawatha." 

In the mythology of the Hindus we hear of ' ' Hari, the preserver of the 
uni verse," who, to save " the holy king Satyavrata," assumed the form of a small 
fish, and in that form addressed the king, asking for his protection. The fish 
by a succession of rapid growths at length attained a magnitude, which sug- 
gested to the king that he had to do with an incarnate deity. The god at length 
revealed himself to him, and promised him preservation in the approaching 
deluge, into the waters of which " the three worlds were about to be plunged." 
" On the appointed day the god, invoked by the king, appeared in the form of a 
fish, blazing like gold, extending a million of leagues with one stupendous horn, 
on which the king, as he had been commanded by Hari, tied the ship with a 
cable made of a vast serpent. " ( Hardwick. Christ ancl other Masters. Vol. 
/., p. 312.) In the traditions of the same people we find the myth of the 
world-supporting tortoise and elephant. 

In the legends of the Mussulmans we read of a camel "one hundred cubits 
high," which came forth from the cleft mountain at the prayer of Salih. Be- 
sides other miraculous properties it could speak, and on being touched by 
Gabriel's flaming sword gave birth to a young camel resembling itself in every 
respect. It visited the dwellings of the people daily, calling them by name, 
and supplying them with milk. ( Weil's Legends of the Mussulmans, p. 42.) 
The Ojibwa legend represents the dormouse as having been originally "the 
largest animal in the world ; when it stood up it looked like a mountain." It 
was reduced to its present size by the heat of the sun, whilst engaged in freeing 
it from the snare in which it had been entrapped. ( Tylor. Op. cit., p. 341.) 

In the northern mythology, again, we have the monster Jormungand, or 
Midgard's Serpent, which All-father "cast into the deep ocean which surrounds 
all lands ; but there it grew and became so great that it encircles the whole 
world, and bites its own tail. " (Thorpe. Op. cit. Vol. I., p. 50.) And the 
wolf Fenrir, another offspring of Loki and Angurboda, is a monster of but little 
less dimensions than Midgard's Serpent. Having broken the chains Lseding and 
Dromi, he was at length effectually bound by ' ' the chain Gleipnir, which was 
composed of six materials, viz., the sound of a cat's footstep, a woman's beard, 
the roots of a mountain, a bear's sinews, a fish's breath, ancl a bird's spittle." 
" The foam which issues from his mouth forms the river called Von." ( Id., p. 
49 — 52.) The Greeks had their Nemeean Lion ; the American Indians their 
"great bear of the mountains." 

We shall remember, too, the huge serpent which killed all the companions 
of Cadmus ; against which a rock was hurled without effect, though its force 
was sufficient to shake the walls of a city, and by the weight of which a lofty 
oak was bent. ( Ovid's Met. Book III., 1. 55 — 95.) 

Then there is Sinbad's whale mistaken for an island ; and the Hoc's egg, 
which was fifty paces round. 

Do we need anything more to explain the world-wide traditions of monsters 
— chimseras, gorgons, sea-serpents, &c., — than superstitious ignorance acting on 
a poetic or morbid imagination ? The untrained mind naturally looks outside 
itself for a power to aid or to destroy ; and sees in all striking natural phe- 
nomena, and in all unusual or unaccountable events, the presence of a personal, 
agency ; and nothing is more natural than to proceed to a description of the 
imaginary agent, — to clothe the idea with a form more or less in correspondence 
with the characteristics of the visible phenomenon whether of terror or of 
health -giving ; and then to give it a "local habitation and a name." It has 


UNTOMBINDE. 


71 


been said, "The philosophy of an early people is intimately mingled with 
mythology, and mythology, like nature, has an inexhaustible power of producing 
life." It has exerted this power all the world over to produce monsters. When 
once the imagination, excited by any cause, has given birth to the conception of 
a monster, the example will be rapidly followed, and their appears to be no 
limit to the number or variety of monsters which may spring up, or to the gro- 
tesqueness of the forms, possible and impossible, with which the human mind 
will clothe the offspring of the imagination. 

The foregoing was already in type when my attention was directed by my 
friend Mr. Sanderson, of Durban, to an article on real and fabulous monsters, 
in Household Words , entitled, " A Set of Odd Fellows." After noticing many 
" bewildering shapes " assumed by real monsters of the deep, the writer pro- 
ceeds : — 

" Fantastic, however, as Nature herself has been in this part of her domain, 
Superstition has surpassed her. Poetry, also, has not forgotten her divine mis- 
sion to create. Romance has been out upon the pathless waters, and brought 
back news of its inhabitants, mingling facts with fancies. And Investigation 
itself, in its early days, has babbled to the world of prodigies within the ocean 
depths a 3 strange and appalling as any within the limits of acknowledged 
Fable. 

"We have already quoted a passage from the Faery Queene, touching sea- 
monsters ; but the catalogue which the poet goes on to give us is so fearfully 
fine, and is such a condensed cyclopaedia of fabulous marine zoology, that we 
cannot forbear appending it : — 

" ' Spring-headed hydres, and sea-shouldering whales ; 

Great whirlpools, which all fishes make to flee ; 

Bright scolopendraes,* armd with silver scales ; 

Mighty monoceros, with immeasured tayles ; 

The dreadfull fish that hath deserved the name 
Of Death, and like him lookes in dreadfull hew ; 

The griesly wasserman, that makes his game 
The flying ships with swiftnes to pursew ; 

The horrible sea-satyre, that doth shew 
His fearefull face in time of greatest storme ; 

Huge ziffins, whom mariners eschew 
No lesse than rockes, as travellers informe ; 

And greedy rosmarines, with visages deforme. 

All these, and thousand thousands many more, 

And more deformed monsters thousand fold, 

With dreadfull noise and hollow rombling rore 
Came rushing, in the fomy waves enrold.' 

Book ii. c. 12. 

What a passionate earnestness, as though the writer had been really scared 
with his own imagination, is there in the above repetition of the word ' thou- 
sand ! ' 

' ' Olaus Magnus, Archbishop of Upsal, in Sweden, who lived in the six- 
teenth century, is one of the chief authorities in support of the wild stories 
which were once in circulation respecting sea-monsters. He tells us of a species 
of fish seen on the coast of Norway, whose eyes, which are eight or ten cubits 
in circumference, appear, when glaring upward from the black chasmy water- 
depths, like red and fiery lamps ; of the ' whirlpool, ' or prister, who is ' two 
hundred cubits long, and very cruel,' — who amuses himself by upsetting ships, 
which he securely fastens by entangling them in the windings of his long tail, 
and who is most readily put to flight by the sound of a trumpet of war, cannon 
balls being utterly ineffective ; of a sea-serpent (resembling that astounding 
phantom of the deep of which we have heard so much lately) who goes ashore 
on clear summer nights, to regale himself on calves, lambs, and hogs, and who 


L 


72 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


' puts up his head like a pillar, and catcheth away men ' from off the decks of 
ships ; and of other marvels too numerous to mention. But we are, even yet, 
so imperfectly acquainted with the multiform vitality of the ocean, that we 
must take care we are not treading unawares upon the remote twilight bounda- 
ries of fact. Are scientific enquirers yet sure that those strangely vanishing 
islands, which at times appear and disappear in the solitary northern seas, are 
not the prominent parts of some stupendous kraken ? " 


AMAVUKUTU. 


The following curious legend, claiming to speak of an event in the 
history of primitive man, is inserted here because of its correspond- 
ence with the tale of Unthlatu's birth, into which it was probably 
inseited from some older tradition. Of a similar character and equally 
curious is the resuscitation of a damsel which had been devoured by a 
lion, by placing her heart in milk. " Now the woman took the first 
milk of as many cows as calved, and put it into a calabash, where her 
daughter's heart was ; the calabash increased in size, and in proportion 
to this the girl grew again inside." ( Bleek's Hottentot Fables , p. 55. ) 


Kwa ti amavukutu ekuk^aleni, 
ekudabukeni kwokuk^ala elu/da- 
rrgeni, a fika ekaya, a funyana urn- 
fazi e Aleli pand/de, a ngena, a 
tunflisa urnlota end/dini yake. Wa 
kala. Wa b' e umfazi ; wa b' e nga 
zali. Wa ti, " A ze 'ku ngi /deka, 
a bona ngi nge namntwana woku- 
kcita urnlota." A fika amavukutu 
ematandatu ; la ti elinye, " Vuku- 
tu." La ti elinye, " XJ ti ' Vuku- 
tu ' ni na?" La ti elinye, " Yu- 
kutu," la pinda. La ti elinye, 
" XJ ti ' Vukutu ' ni na % " Nga- 
pambili ke kwake lowo 'mfazi. 


It happened in the beginning, 
at the first breaking off from the 
source of being, 89 that some rock 
pigeons came to a house ; they 
found a woman sitting outside ; 
they went in and scattered the 
ashes in her house. She cried. 
She was a married woman ; she 
had no child. She said, "They 
have come to laugh at me ; they 
saw that I have no child to scatter 
the ashes." There came six 
pigeons ; one said, " Vukutu." 
Another said, "Why do you say 
' Vukutu ? ' " The first repeated, 
"Vukutu." The other said, " Why 
do you say ' Vukutu V" This 
was done in the presence of that 


89 Elahlangeni or ohlangeni, "from the source of being." This somewhat 
paraphrastic rendering of the word uhlan g a is perhaps the nearest approach we 
can make to an intelligible English rpeaning. Uhlanga is a source — personal or 
local — of other things, which may resemble the uhlanga from which they 
sprung, or be quite distinct from it. There are, therefore, many kinds of 
uhlanga. The notion of time, —except so far as it is involved in that of pre- 
cedence, — is never wrapped up in the word ohlangeni ; it is not therefore, as has 
been erroneously supposed by some, a term conveitible with ekukqaleni, "in the 
beginning." The personal Uhlanga, from which, according to the Zulus, all 
things out-came ( vela ) in the beginning, will be fully treated of when we come 
to their religious mythology. 


AUAVUKUTU. 


73 


Kepa la ti, " Tata upondo," la ti 
elinye, " u zilumeke. ,, La ti 
elinye, " Yukutu," futi. La ti 
elinye, " Tata upondo, u zilmneke, 
u kupe iAlule, u tele embizeni, u 
nameke, u beke ngenyanga ezi- 
shiyangalombili, u nameke. Kwo 
ti ngenyanga yesishiyangalolunye, 
(la ti,) u ze u zibukule ngenyanga 
yesishiyangalolunye." 

Wa zibukula ke, wa funyana 
umntwana ; iAlule se li nomntwa- 
na pakati embizeni. La ti ivuku- 
tu, " Mu kipe ke namuAla, u mu 
fake emAlantini, u m pe ke uku- 
dAla." La fika elinye, la ti, 
" M ambese ngengubo zake, mu 
beke emsamo wendAlu ; mu fiAle, 
ba nga m azi abafaz' abanye ; mu 
pe ke kakulu, a kule masinya." 
Wa kula ke masinya. 

Ya fika indoda yake kusiAlwa. 
Wa bas' umlilo kakulu umfazi. 
Indoda a i m azi umntwana lowo, 
umntwana weAlule nje. Wa m 
tata ke umfazi umntwana emsamo 
wendAlu, w* eAla naye, wa Alala, 
wa m beka ngapambili kwake ; wa 
tata ukudAla kwake umntwana, 
wa ku beka ngapambili kwake 
umntwana, wa ti, " YidAla ke ; 
nanku ukudAla kwako, mntanami" 
Ya mangala indoda yake, ya ku- 
luma, ya ti, " Lo u mu tata pi ? 
Okabani lo 'mntwana 1 " Wa 
t' umfazi, " Owami, oweAlule lami, 
owamavukutu, a ngi tshelako ubu- 
Alakani : a ti, a ngi gcabe, ngi 
zilumeke, ngi kupe iAlule, ngi li 
tele embizeni, li ya 'kuba ng' um- 
ntwana. La umntwana ke." 

Kepa i ya jabula, ya m bonga, 
ya ti, "Ngi ya tokoza, ngi ya 
jabula namuAla. Se u nomntwana 
wako. KuAle kakulu." Yebo, 
ya tsho njalo lapo ke. Wa kula 
njalo umntwana ke weAlule. 
Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


woman. And the other answered, 
" Take a horn and cup yourself." 
The other said again, " Yukutu." 
The other said, " Take a horn and 
cup yourself, and draw out a clot, 
and place it in a pot, and lute it 
down, and set it aside for eight 
months ; lute it down, and in the 
ninth month, (the pigeon said,) 
uncover it." 

She uncovered it, and found a 
child; the clot had now a child 
inside it, in the pot. The pigeon 
said, " Take him out now, and put 
him in a bag, and give him food." 
Another came and said, "Wrap 
him in his blankets, and put him 
at the back of the house ; hide 
him, that the other women may 
not know ; give him a great deal 
of food, that he may grow imme- 
diately." So the child grew im- 
mediately. 

Her husband came in the even- 
ing. The woman lit a very great 
fire. The husband did not know of 
the child, the child of the clot only. 
The wife took the child from the 
back of the house, and came for- 
ward with him, and sat down, and 
placed him before her ; she took the 
child's food, and put it before him, 
and said, " Just eat ; see thy food, 
my child." The husband won- 
dered, and spoke, and said, " This 
child, where did you get him ? 
Whose is this child ] " The woman 
said, " It is my child, the child of 
a clot of my blood, the child of 
the pigeons, which taught me wis- 
dom : they told me to scarify and 
cup myself, and take a clot, and 
put it in a pot, and it would be- 
come a child. So it became a child. " 

And the husband rejoiced and 
gave her thanks, and said, " I am 
happy and rejoice this day. You 
have now a child. It is very 
good." Yes surely the husband 
said so. So the child of the clot 
grew up. 


74 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


USITUNGUSOBENHLE . 90 


Usitungusobenthle and her sister go out to gather ubentlile. 


Kwa ti Usitungusoben/de, ba be 
'zintombi. Omunye e ng' udade 
wabo intombi yend/du 'nkulu. Be 
hamba namabuto abo 91 ezintombi, 
be ya 'kuka uben/de, ba hamba be 
bu ka, be bn shiya end/deleni. Ba 
ya ba finyelela emikaulweni lapa 
be za 'ubuya kona. Wa ti ke 
udade wabo wend/du enkulu, wa 
ti, a ka tandwa uyise ; u tanda 
wend/du encinane. Ba buya ba 
gukguka. Ba ti ba hamba, ba bu 
buta ; kepa wa bu shiya o tandwa 
uyise, wa ko/dwa. Ku ti be sen- 
kangala se be buya, wa bu 
kumbula u ben/de bake. 


As regards Usitungusobenthle ; 
there were two damsels ; the one 
who was her sister was a child of 
the great house. As they were 
going with their female attendants 
to gather ubentlile , 92 they walked 
along plucking it, leaving it by 
the way-side. They reached the 
point where they would turn back. 
Her sister, the child of the great 
house, said she was not beloved 
by her father ; he loved the child 
of the inferior house. They turn- 
ed back. They walked and col- 
lected the ubenthle ; but she who 
was loved by her father forgot, and 
left hers. When they were on the 
high land, on their way back, she 
remembered her ubenthle. 


The female attendants refuse to return with Usitungusobenthle : she 
returns alone , and falls in with a cannibal . 


Wa ba nga ti 93 kwezake in- 
tombi ez'amabuto ake, "Ngi pe- 
lekezele ni, ngi lande ubenAle ba- 
mi." Z' ala zonke nezake nezodade 
wabo : zi yah we udade wabo. Wa 
buya ke yedwa. W a hamba- 
hamba, wa fumana izimu, li /dezi 
endAlini lapa bu kona uben/de 
bake. Wa ti e sa u fika, wa fu- 


She vainly asked her female 
attendants one after another, say- 
ing, " Do you accompany me, that 
I may fetch my ubenthle." All re- 
fused, both her own and her sister's : 
they had been enjoined by her 
sister (to refuse). So she returned 
alone. She went and went, and 
fell in with a cannibal sitting in a 
house, where her ubenthle was. 
When she arrived, she found him 


90 Bundle-of -ubenthle. 

91 Amabuto abo, pronounced amabutw abo ; the o becoming w before the 
vowel. It does not appear desirable to note by spelling such peculiarities. 

92 A fibrous plant, with which ornaments, &c., are made. 

93 Wa ba nga ti . — The meaning of this form is, She addressed first one and 
then another in vain. As below, Wa ba nga lunywa , He was bitten in vain, 
that is, without shrinking or manifesting pain. 


USITUNGUSOBENHLE. 


75 


mana li tola izibungu, li zi dAla, 
Li m biza, la ti, Ngena, u ze 'ku 
ngi tolisa," Wa ngena, wa fika 
wa tola, wa zinge e li nika izi- 
bungu, li d/da. 


hunting for maggots 94 and eating 
them. He called her, saying, 
" Come in, and help me to find." 
She entered and went and found, 
and gave him maggots continually, 
and he ate. 


V situngusobenthle' s sister and the attendants make a false report. 


Ekaya ba fike ba ti, "I tombile 
leyo 'ntombazana, Usitunguso- 
ben/de." Ku /datshwe inkomo ; 
isizwe sonke si pelele ngoku/daba, 
uba ku tombe inkosazana. 


The others arrived at their 
home ; they said, " The little maid, 
Usitungusobenthle, has become a 
woman." An ox is slaughtered, 
and the whole tribe comes together 
at the slaughter, because the prin- 
cess has come to maturity . 95 


The cannibal puts Usitungusobenthle into his bag , and walks off with 

her. 


La ti izimu la m faka em/danti- 
ni ; wa ti ke wa puma nalo izimu, 
li y' ekaya kubo kasitungusoben/de. 
Ba fumana abafana be babili ba- 
kwabo, be sematoleni, abanye be 
sezinkomeni, be d/d' inyama. La 
ti, " Ngi sikele ni inyama." Ba li 
sikela izimu. La ti, " Ngi za 'ku 
ni tshela um/danti womuntu om- 
kulu." 


The cannibal put Usitunguso- 
benthle into his bag, and she went 
with the cannibal, and he went to 
Usitungusobenthle's home. They 
fell in with two of her brothers, 
who were with the calves ; and 
others were with the cattle, eating 
meat. The cannibal said, " Cut 
off some meat for me." They cut 
off some for him. He said, " I 
will tell you something about the 
bag of a great person ." 96 


Usitu/ngusobenthle speaks in the bag , and her brothers recognise her 

voice. 


Ba li pa, la d/da. Ba ti, " U 
bete um/danti, u te u zo 'u si 
tshela." La u beta ke. Ya ti ke 
intombazana, Usitungusoben/de, i 


They gave him meat, and he 
ate. They said, " Beat the bag 97 
you said you would tell us of." So 
he beat it. The little girl, Usi- 
tungusobenthle, who was in the 


94 In a native hut which is not properly attended to, maggots come up from 
the floor. The cannibal is represented as eating them. The badly cared for 
house and the food are both intended to disparage the cannibal, by intimating 
that his habits are different from those of other men. 

95 The ceremonies performed on such occasions will be given in another 
place. 

96 The brothers of Usitungusobenthle understand by this that there is 
something mysterious which probably concerns themselves, being children of 
the king, in the cannibal's bag. 

97 That is, " Out with this tale about the bag." 


76 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngapakati em/dantini, ya ti, " Ngi 
ya 'kukuluma, ngi ti ni ] Ngi shi- 
yiwe nje abakababa ; b' able uku 
ngi pelekezela, ngi ye 'kutabata 
uben/de bwami." B' ezwa abafana 
bakwabo, b' ezwa ngelizwi ; ba ti, 
" Mu pelekezele ni, a ye kubaba, a 
ye 'kud/da inyam a e kcebileyo ku- 
baba ekaya." Ba mu pelekezela 
ke, ba mu sa endAlini yakwabo 
U situn gusoben/de . 

U situngusobenthld s brothers to 

La fika ke kwabo. Wa li si- 
kela unina kasitungusoben/de ; la 
d/da. Ba ti, " U bete ke um/danti 
womuntu omkulu." La u beta ke 
izimu. Wa ti umntwana, " Ngi 
ya 'ukuluma ngi ti ni 1 Ngi shi- 
yiwe ngabakababa." Wa ti unina, 
" A ku yokubizwa inkosi uyise." 
Wa fika ke, wa ti, "A ke a bete 
um/danti ; " 'ezwe i kuluma, ya ti, 
" Ngi ya 'kuti ni 1 Ngi sbiyiwe 
ngabakababa." 


bag, said, " What shall I say 1 I 
have been left by my father's 
children, who refused to accom- 
pany me to fetch my ubenthle." 
The boys, her brothers, heard; 
they understood by her voice; 
they said, " Do you accompany 
him to our father's, that he may 
eat fat meat at our father's house." 
So they accompanied him, and 
brought him to Usitungusoben- 
thle's home. 

ke the cannibal to their father. 

So the cannibal came to her 
people. Her mother cut him some 
meat, and he ate. They said to 
him, "Just beat the bag of the 
great person." So the cannibal 
beat it, and the child said, " What 
shall I say % I have been forsaken 
by my father's children." The 
mother told them to call the king, 
her father. So he came, and said, 
"Just let him beat the bag." And 
he heard her say, " What shall I 
say ? I have been forsaken by my 
father's children." 


The father sends the cannibal to fetch water in a leaky calabash , and 
takes U situngusobenthle out of the bag. 


Wa ti ke uyise, " Li nike ise- 
lwa, li ye 'kuka amanzi." Wa li 
kcamusa iselwa ngesilanda. La 
hamba ke izimu, li ya 'kuka 'ma- 
nzi. La libala ukuka 'manzi, ise- 
lwa li vuza. Ba be tola na ofezela 
nenyoka nezinja, ku fakwa em/da- 
ntini ; wa kitshwa umntwana, in- 
tombi, Usitungusoben/deng' uyise. 


So her father told them to give 
the cannibal a calabash, that he 
might go and fetch water. The 
father made a hole in it with a 
spear. 98 So the cannibal went to 
fetch water. The cannibal wa* 
detained fetching water, for the 
calabash leaked. They procured 
scorpions, and snakes, and dogs, 
and put them in the bag ; and the 
little girl, Usitungusobenthle, was 
taken out by her father. 99 They 


98 In like manner the woman gives Moorachug a sieve to fetch water iu. 
(Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. p. 160./ The Danaides are punished by being 
compelled to the infinite, unceasing labour of filling a vessel full of holes with 
water. 

99 A tale similar to this in many respects, and containing some incidents 

from other legends, is related of Tselane, among the Bechuanas. (Abbousset's 
South Africa, p. 98./ See also above, p. 33. " U/dakanyana. " 


USITUNGUSOEENHLE. 


77 


Kwa fakwa izilo zonke, ezi lumayo 
zonke, em/dantini wezimu. La 
fika izimu, la ti, " Ini nkuba ni 
ngi nike iselwa elivuzayo 1 " Ya 
ti inkosi ya li bulala, ya ti, " TJ 
nikwe inkosikazi. Ku nani i nga 
ku funeli iselwa eli nga fanga, eli- 
k^inileyo na % " 

The cannibal departs with his 

La ti ke izimu, " Um/danti wa- 
mi n sa /dezi ini ke na 1 " Ba ti, 
" U se /dezi ngaloko 'ku/dala kwa- 
wo, u be n n beka ngako." La 
twala ke izimu ; la piwa nenyama, 
la goduka, li ya ekaya emzini 
walo. La fika, la u beka pand/de 
um/danti walo ; la ti, "A ku ba- 
swe umlilo, ku pekwe imbiza." 

The canni 


put all kinds of biting animals 
into the cannibal's bag. The can- 
nibal came, and said, " Why did 
you give me a leaky calabash 1 " 
The king had made a hole in it, 
but he said, " The queen gave it 
to you. How was it she did not 
find for you an unbroken, strong 
calabash ? " 

bag fidl of venomous animals. 

The cannibal said, " Is my bag 
still there?" They said, "It is 
still in the same place and con- 
dition as you put it." The can- 
nibal took it up ; he was given 
meat, and went home to his kraal. 
When he arrived he put his bag 
down outside, and told them to 
make a fire and boil the pot. 

%Vs death. 


I b' i tsha. La tumela um- 
ntwana walo, la ti, ka tabate um- 
/danti. Wa lunywa umntwana ; 
wa u la/da. La tuma omunye 
futi ; wa hamba wa ti, u ya u 
tabata ; wa lunywa naye; wa u 
laAla. Izilwane ezi pakati em/da- 
ntini za luma abantwana bezimu. 
La ti, "Ni nga be ni sa ngena 
end/dini lapa," kubantwana balo. 
La ti, a u tatshatwe inkosikazi. 
Ya lunywa. Ya ti, " Ba/de ; ba 
tsho abantwana ukuba u ya luma 
lo 'm/danti wako." La ti ke, "Ngi 
valele ni ngapakati, ni vimbe nen- 
tunjana." Ba vala ke, ba puma. 
La u tabata ngokwalo. La ba nga 
lunywa, la k^inisela. La u kupa, 
la u nikina. Za kumbula kulo 
zonke ezi fakiwe ngapakati. La 


The pot was boiling. He sent 
one of his children to fetch the 
bag. The child was bitten, and 
left it. He sent another ; he 
went, and when he was taking 
hold of it, he too was bitten ; and 
left it. The animals which were 
in the bag bit the cannibal's chil- 
dren. He told them not to come 
into the house any more. He told 
his chief wife to fetch it. She 
was bitten, and said, " The chil- 
dren are right ; they said truly 
this bag of yours bites." So he 
said, " Shut me up inside the 
house, and close up even the little 
holes." 1 They shut him up, and 
went out. He took the bag by 
himself. He was bitten again and 
again without shrinking. He 
emptied the bag, and shook it. 
All the animals which were inside 
rushed upon him. He screamed. 


1 Thus giving them to understand that as they had spoken evil of the food 
he had in his bag, they should not only not have any of it, but should not even 
see what it was. 


78 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kala. La kala ngapakati, li ko- 
Zdwe lapa li nga puma ngakona. 
Kwa ti ku 'sikati, ba vula ; se li 
k^ediwe ; se ku sele amatambo 
odwa. La puma li gijima, la ya 
odakeni ; la fika, la Alaba ngen- 
/doko. Kwa ngena izinyosi ema- 
tanjeni alo, se li umuti ! 


U situngusobenthld s father kills 

Kwa ti ekaya inkosi ya biza 
U situngusoben/de, ya ti, ka pume. 
Z' ala ke intombi. Ya fika ya 
fika ya ya endAlini, lapa ku 
tonjiswe kona. Ya fumana be 
y ambese enye intombi ngomuti, 
ku tiwa, ng' U situ ngusoben Ale. 
Ya zi biza zonke ; za puma ke, za 
pelela. Ya tola ukuni, ya tabata 
isitshetshe, ya zi ngamula zonke 
intombi. 

Ufusi Mbele (Deborah). 


He screamed inside, being un- 
able to get out anywhere. After 
some time they opened the door, 
when he was already made an end 
of, and nothing was left but bones . 2 
He ran out, and went to a mud- 
hole ; when he arrived, he fell in 
head foremost. And bees entered 
into his bones, he being now a 
tree ! 

the girls who had forsaken her. 

At home the king called for 
Usitungusobenthle, and told her 
to come out. But the girls refused. 
He went to the hut, where the 
ceremonies of puberty were being 
performed. He found that they 
had decorated another girl with 
branches of trees, and it was said 
she was Usitungusobenthle. He 
called them all ; they came out 
every one of them. He got a 
block , 3 and took a sword, and cut 
off the heads of all the girls. 


USITUN GUSOBENHLE NAM A JUB ATENTE . 4 


Usitungusobenthle is carried off by Pigeons. 


Ku tiwa, kwa ku kona intombi i 
tombile, U situngusoben/de ibizo 
layo. Kwa ti abantu bomuzi wa- 
bo bonke ba hamba ba ya 'kulima 
kude nomuzi wabo, nezintombi za 
hamba futi nazo, za ya 'kuka 


It is said there was a girl, who 
had come to womanhood, whose 
name was Usitungusobenthle. All 
the people of her kraal went to 
dig at a distance from the kraal : 
the girls also had gone to pluck 


2 An exaggeration of course. 

3 This mode of punishing criminals is no longer practised among the 
Zulus ; neither do they know when it was. They say merely that it was com- 
mon to execute in this way in the time of long ago. 

4 A majubatente. — Pigeons. Although the idea of birds is practically kept 

up at first, it is soon left, and the Amajubatente are evidently a people, pro- 
bably a people riding on horses. 


USITUNGUSOBENHLE NAMAJUBATENTE. 


79 


incapa ; wa sala yedwa Usitungu- 
sobenAle. Kwa ti kwa fika Ama- 
jubatente ; a fika Amajubatente, a 
mu tabata UsitungusobenAle, a 
hamba naye e ndiza pezulu ; a 
dabula ngalapa ku kona onina, lapa 
he lima kona, a m lengalengisa 
pezu kukanina. UsitungusobenAle 
wa kala e bona unina, wa ti, 
" Marne, mame, ng' emuka nama- 
jubatente." A m lengisa. Unina 
wa linga uku m bamba ; e m da- 
bukisa nje kodwa unina, a hamba 
naye U situngusoben/de ; nonina 
futi wa landela, e hamb' e kala. 
Kwa za kwa Aiwa, a fika emtini, a 
kwela pezulu, a Alala kona pezulu. 
Unina wa lala ngapantsi kwomuti. 
Kwa ti ngapakati kwobusuku a m 
tata Amajubatente Usitunguso- 
benAle, a hamba naye, a ya kubo. 


incapa ; 5 and Usitungusobenthle 
was left alone. Some Amajuba- 
tente came and took away Usi- 
tungusobenthle; they carried her 
flying through the air ; they passed 
near the place where her mothers 0 " 
were digging, and moved her 
backwards and forwards in the air 
over her mother's head. Usi- 
tungusobenthle shouted when she 
saw her mother, " Mother, mother, 
I am going away with the Amaju- 
batente." They suspended her in 
the air. Her mother tried to lay 
hold of her. But they were 
merely distressing her mother, and 
went away with Usitungusoben- 
thle : her mother also followed, 
going and weeping. When it was 
evening they came to a tree and 
perched on the top, and stopped 
there on the top. The mother lay 
down at the foot of the tree. In 
the night the Amajubatente took 
Usitungusobenthle, and went away 
with her to their own country. 


Usitungusobenthle becomes the queen of the Pigeons. 


Kwa sa unina ka b' e sa wa 
bona pezu kwomuti Amajubatente. 
Wa se u ya buya, wa pindel' emu- 
va. Amajubatente a fika ekaya 
kubo, nositungusobenAle futi. A 
ti Amajubatente, " A ka be inko- 
sikazi." Wa e se ba inkosikazi. 
Wa zala umntwana. (Indoda yake 
ya Ijubatente nayo.) Wa pinda 
wa zala omunye futi ; wa pinda wa 
zala omunye futi : abatatu 'kupela. 


In the morning the mother 
could no longer see the Amajuba- 
tente on the tree ; so she went 
back again. And the Amajuba- 
tente went to their home with 
Usitungusobenthle. The Amaju- 
batente said, " Let her be queen." 
So she became queen accord- 
ingly. She gave birth to a child. 
(Her husband was an Ijubatente 
also .) 7 Again she gave birth to a 
second child ; again she gave birth 
to a third child : three altogether. 


5 Incapa. — A soft kind of grass. 

6 Mothers. — The children of the polygamist call all the wives Mother, as 
well as their mother properly so called. 

7 The notion of the marriage between human beings and animals is very 
common ; and like another very common notion with which it is associated, — 
the possibility of holding intercourse with and understanding the language of 
beasts, birds, and fishes, — may perhaps be regarded as an indication of that 


M 


80 


IZINGANEKWANJE. 


The men go to hunt , leaving Usitungusobenthle alone with an old 

woman. 


Kwa ti kwa menywa inkgina ; 
ya ya ukuzingela kude ; ya hamba 
nendoda futi kasitungusoben/de ; 
nabantwana bake ; bonke abantu 
be ya 'kuzingela nabo. Wa sala 
nesalukazi ekaya Usitungusobe- 
nAle ; bobabili ba sala ekaya, Wa 
se kcebe ikcebo kubantwana bake, 
wa ti, " A no zigulisa." 


It happened that a hunting 
party was called out ; it went to 
hunt at a distance ; Usitunguso- 
benthle's husband went also and 
her children ; and all the people 
went to hunt. Usitungusobenthle 
remained at home with an old 
woman ; they two remained at 
home. Usitungusobenthle devised 
a plan with her children ; she told 
them to feign sickness. 


Usitungusobenthle' s children feign sickness % and return to their mother. 


Ya puma inkgina kusasa. Ba 
ti be sa puma ekaya, wa ti omkui- 
wana 8 umntwana wake wa ziwisa 


The hunting party went out in 
the morning. As they were leav- 
ing home, the bigger boy of Usi- 


sympathy with all living things, which was characteristic of early man, as it is 
now the characteristic of childhood. The emotional mind naturally yearns 
towards the lower world of living things, and asks whether there may not be 
some closer relationship between them and man than is commonly supposed to 
exist ; loves to watch their habits, and longs to comprehend their language. 
And the philosopher appears more and more disposed to seek for and to acknow- 
ledge the existence of relationships, which a few years ago would have been 
scornfully rejected as derogatory to human dignity. (See an interesting and 
excellent paper on the subject by Mr. Charles S. Wake. Anthropological Jour- 
nal No. 111., p • 365. ) 

Be this as it may, the notion is very common in the tales of all people. 
Here the husband is a Pigeon ; in the Highland tales it is a Hoodie, or Royston 
Crow ; or a Dog ; or a Frog. In the German a Horse ; or a Rabbit. In the 
Neapolitan a Serpent. In the Hottentot an Elephant. And we have our own 
tale of Beauty and the Beast. But in the progress of the tale the characteris- 
tics of the animal are lost ; there is nothing but the name ; all its actions, 
thoughts, and language are human. And it generally turns out that it is a 
''prince under spells." 

So here the progress of the tale shows that men and not pigeons are meant. 
They are unable to My across a river. The introduction of animals instead of 
men into a tale is easily explained as regards Zulu. Ijubatente, a pigeon, be- 
comes a proper name by changing the initial i into u ; thus, Ujubatente, The 
Pigeon-man. Such names are common, as, Undhlovu, The Elephant-man ; 
Unyoni, The Bird-man ; Unhlatu, The Boa-man, &c. In the Kafir legends 
there is never, so far as I know, any allusion to horses. The Zulus are not a 
nation of horsemen ; and horses have only recently been introduced amongst 
them. This tale may originally have been a narrative of an inroad of horsemen, 
who carried off a native girl. Nothing would be more natural than for them to 
say on such an occasion, " It was not men, but pigeons, that took her away." 
The name of a bird would be given them to intimate their velocity. It is not 
uncommon at the present time to hear an old man speak of riding on horseback 
as flying. If a person complain of fatigue from riding, he would ask, "How 
can you be tired, since you have merely flown, and not gone on your feet ? " If 
this be a correct surmise, it will throw some light on the origin of the tale, both 
as regards locality and time. 

8 Omkuiwana, dim. of kulu, lit., biggish, somewhat big, that is, the one 
who was big as compared with the other two, the bigger. 


USITUNGUSOBENHLE NAMAJUBATENTE. 


81 


pantsi, wa ti, " Maye, nga puka." 
Wa ti uyise, " Ka buye a ye 
'kaya." Ya d/dulela ngapambili 
futi. Wa ti omunye unmtwana 
ow elama omkuiwana, wa ti, " Ma- 
ye, nga fa isisu." Wa ti uyise, " Ka 
buye futi naye." Ya dAlulela nga- 
pambili futi. Wa ti omuncinyane, 
" Ngi pela ikanda." Wa ti uyise, 
" Ka buye futi naye." B' enza 
ngamabomu, be ko/disa uyise, be 
ti, i kona be za 'umuka. Ba pe- 
lela bobotatu ekaya kunina. 


U situngusobenthle escapes with h 

Unina wa bopa impa/da yake, 
wa tata abantwana bake, wa 
bamba nabo. Si te si kgabuka 
isalukazi, wa e nga se ko Usitu- 
ngusoben/de, e se hambile ; sa 
memeza, sa ti, " Yi, yi, yi," (si 
Zdaba umkosi,) " inkosikazi i mu- 
kile nabantwana benkosi." W' e- 
zwa omunye kwabazingelayo, wa 
ti, " Tula ni ! U ti ni lowo na ? 
Ku nga ti, u ti, ' Inkosikazi i mu- 
kile nabantwana benkosi.' " Ba 
ti ba m bamba, ba ti, " U Alolela 
abantwana benkosi." Ba m bu- 
lala. Sa pinda sa memeza futi, sa 
ti, " Yi, yi, yi ; inkosikazi i mukile 
nabantwana benkosi." Wa ti 
omunye futi, " Ni m bulele kodwa 
ubani. U kona umuntu o meme- 
zayo. Ku nga ti u ti, ' Inkosikazi 
i mukile nabantwana benkosi.' " 
Ba m bamba lowo futi, ba m 
bulala, be ti, " U Molela abantwa- 
na benkosi." Sa pinda futi, sa 


tungusobenthle fell down design- 
edly, and cried out, " O dear, I am 
hurt." His father told him to go 
home. The hunting party again 
went on. Another child, the next 
to the eldest, said, " O dear, I have 
a sudden pain in my stomach ! " 
His father told him too to go back. 
The hunting party again went on. 
The little one said, " My head is 
in pain all over." His father told 
him to go back also. They did 
this wilfully, deceiving their father, 
thinking by this means to get 
away. All three were now at 
home with their mother. 

r children. An alarm is given. 

The mother tied up her luggage, 
and took her children, and went 
away with them. When the old 
woman first observed their depar- 
ture, TJsitungusobenthle was no 
longer there, she having already 
set out. She shouted, saying, 
" Yi, yi, yi," (giving an alarm,) 
"the queen has gone away with 
the king's children." One of the 
hunters heard, and said, " Keep 
still ! What does that person 
say 1 It is as if she said, 1 The 
queen has gone away with the 
king's children.' " They laid hold 
of him, and said, " You are de- 
vising ill luck 9 for the king's 
children." So they killed him. 
Again the old woman shouted and 
said, " Yi, yi, yi ; the queen has 
gone away with the king's chil- 
dren." Again another said, "You 
have indeed killed So-and-so. 
There is someone shouting. It is 
as if she said, 'The queen has 
gone away with the king's chil- 
dren.' " They caught hold of him 
too, and killed him, saying, "You 
are devising bad luck for the king's 
children." Again the old woman 


Or prophesying evil. 


82 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


memeza, sa ti, " Yi, yi, yi ; inko- 
sikazi i mukile nabantwana ben- 
kosi." W' ezwa futi omunye, wa 
ti, " Kgabo. Ni ba bulele kodwa 
abantu. U kona umuntu o me- 
mezayo, u ti, ' Inkosikazi i mukile 
nabantwana benkosi. " Ba m 
bamba futi ; ba m bulala naye 
futi ; ba ti, " U /dolela abantwana 
benkosi, ukuba b' emuke." Sa 
pinda isalukazi okwesine, sa me- 
meza, sa ti, " Yi, yi, yi ; inkosikazi 
i mukile nabantwana benkosi." 
Wa pinda owesine futi, wa ti, 
" Tula ni, si zwe. Ni ba bulele 
kodwa. U kona umuntu o me- 
mezayo. Ku nga ti u ti, ' Inko- 
sikazi i mukile nabantwana ben- 
kosi. ' A ke ni ngi yeke ; ni nga 
ngi bulali mina. Si ke si buye si 
yokuzwa ekaya, ngasekaya, ukuba 
a ku ko 'mnntu o memezayo na ? " 
Ya ti inkosi ya m yeka lowo 
'muntu. Ba hamba, ba ya ekaya. 
Ba fika ekaya. Sa ti isalukazi, 
" Inkosikazi i mukile nabantwana 
benkosi." Wa ti umuntu, "Ngi 
te ni ke na ? Ngi ni tshele, nga 
ti, u kona umuntu o memezayo." 


cried, saying, " Yi, yi, yi ; the 
queen has gone away with the 
king's children." Again another 
heard, and said, "No then. You 
have killed indeed those men ; but 
there is a person shouting, and 
saying, 4 The queen has gone away 
with the king's children.' " They 
caught hold of him too, and killed 
him also ; they said, " You are de- 
vising bad luck for the king's 
children, that they may go away." 
Again the old woman cried for the 
fourth time, saying, " Yi, yi, yi ; 
the queen has gone away with the 
king's children." Again a fourth 
said, " Be still, and let us listen. 
You have indeed killed those men ; 
but there is someone shouting ; it 
is as if she said, 4 The queen has 
gone away with the king's chil- 
dren.' Just leave me alone; do 
not kill me too. Let us just go 
back to hear at home, I mean 
near home, if there is not someone 
shouting." The king let that man 
be. They returned home. The 
old woman said, " The queen has 
gone away with the king's chil- 
dren." The man said, " What did 
I say then ? I told you there was 
someone shouting." 


The king sets out in pursuit with a large army. 


Ba butana bonke abantu benkosi 
yamajubatente. Ya ti, a ba m 
lande UsitungusobenAle. Ba ha- 
mba, impi eningi kakulu e 'zinku- 
lungwane, nayo inkosi yamajuba- 
tente futi. 


All the people of the king of 
the Amajubatente assembled. The 
king told them to fetch Usi- 
tungusobenthle. They set out a 
great army many thousands strong, 
and the king of the Amajubatente 
went with them. 


The sea divides at TJ situngusobenthle 1 s word , and she and her children 

pass through. 


TJsitungusobenAle wa fika elwa- 
nd/de ; wa ti, " Lwand/de, lwa- 
nd/de, lwand/de, wo ti dam' ! ngi 
Usitungusoben/de." U lwand/de 


Usitungusobenthle came to the 
sea ; she said, " Sea, sea, sea, 
divide ! I am Usitungusobenthle." 
The sea at once divided ; and she 


USITUNGUSOBENHLE NAMAJUBATENTE. 


83 


lwa se lu ti dam'. Wa se wela 
nabantwana bake, wa Alala nga- 
petsheya. Ya fika impi yamaju- 
batente elwandAle, ya m bona 
U situngusoben/de e Alezi nga- 
petsheya kwolwandAle. Ya fika 
ya mangala i m bona ngapetsbeya 
kwolwand/de. 


and her children went through , 10 
and sat down on the other side. 
The army of the Amajubatente 
arrived at the Sea, and saw Usi- 
tungusobenthle sitting on the other 
side of it. They wondered when 
they saw her on the other side of 
the sea. 


The army is persuaded to follow , and is drowned. 


Wa ti U situngusoben/de w' a- 
luka intambo ende kakulu, wa i 
ponsa ngapetsheya, wa ti, " Woza 
ni, ngi ni weze." E ba binga, e 
ba binga nje. Wa e se tole itshe 
elibukali. U situngusoben/de wa 

ti, " Bambela ni, ni be baningi 
entanjeni." Ba i bamba intambo, 
ba baningi. Wa i donsa intambo 
Usitungusoben/de. Ba ti lapo be 
pakati, wa i nguma intambo, b' e- 
muka nolwandAle. Wa ti, " Ma- 
ye ! B' emuka abantu benkosi ; " 
e zenzisa, e ngume ngamabomu. 
Wa ti kwabanye futi, " I bambe 
ni intambo futi." Ba se be i 
bamba, se be baningi. Wa ba 
donsa. Kwa ti lapo be pakati 
kwolwand/de, wa i nguma futi in- 
tambo. Wa ti, " Maye ! B' e- 
muka abantu benkosi," Wa sel' e 
i ponsa futi, e ti, i m punyukile. 
Wa e se ti, " Bambela ni, ni be 


Usitungusobenthle plaited a 
very long rope, and threw it across, 
and said, "Come along, I will 
cross you over ." 11 But she was 
merely chaffing them. She had 
found also a sharp stone. Usi- 
tungusobenthle said, "A great 
many of you lay hold of the rope." 
A great many of them laid hold 
of it; Usitungusobenthle drew it. 
And when they were in the middle 
she cut the rope, and they were 
carried away by the sea. She said, 
" Woe is me ! The people of the 
king are carried away." But she 
was dissembling, for she had pur- 
posely cut the rope. Then she 
said to the others also, " Lay hold 
of the rope again." Many laid 
hold of it. She drew them across. 
And when they were in the midst 
of the sea, she cut the rope again ; 
and said, "Woe is me ! The 
people of the king are carried 
away." Again she threw the rope, 
saying it had slipped from her 
hand. And then she said, "A 


10 A somewhat similar tale is told of the Heitsi Eibip of the Hottentots ; 
or, according to Knudsen, of some other person. ( Bleeh's Hottentot Fables , p. 
75, and Note.) When pursued, on arriving at some water he said, "My grand- 
father's father, open thyself, that I may pass through, and close thyself after- 
wards." 

11 In the legend of Maol a Chliobain, it is said that when she had success- 
fully plundered a giant, and again and again eluded his pursuit by leaping a 
stream he could not pass, she at length killed the giant by a stratagem similar 
to that by which Usitungusobenthle killed the pursuing army. "So Maol a 
Chliobain stood on the bridge (made of a hair), and she reached out a stick to 
him, and he went down into the river, and she let go the stick, and he was 
drowned. (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. p. 260. ^ In this Highland legend, 
and in that above, as well as in that of Ulangalasenthla and Ulangalasenzantsi, 
given below, the pursuers and pursued hold a conversation across the river, and 
the pursuers are foolish enough to believe that the pursued will help their ene- 
mies to catch them, and so perish for their misplaced confidence. 


84 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


baningi futi." Ea se be i bamba 
intambo. Kva ti lapo be pakati 
labo futi, wa i n^uma intambo, 
b' emuka namanzi olwand/de. 
Kwa za kwa sala a ba ba bangaki 
ngapetsheya, se be bancinyane 
kambe. Wa ti omunye walabo 
abaseleyo, " Ba za ba pela abantu 
benkosi." Ba se be buyela emuva. 


Usitungusobenthle returns to ) 

Wa sel' e hamba ke Usitungu- 
sobenAle, e sel' e fika ezweni la- 
kubo. Wa fika abantu be nga se 
ko; se ba dAliwa Isikgukgumadevu. 
Wa bona intaba eya i nge ko ku- 
k^ala : wa ti, " I pi le 'ntaba na?" 
Wa bamba, wa sondela kuyo, nga- 
lapa kwa ku kona umuzi wakubo : 
wa fumana into enkulu, ukuti Isi- 
k^ukgumadevu, o kad' e ti intaba. 


Usitungusobenthle rips open the 
men come out of it , a 


great many of you hold on again." 
And they held on to the rope. 
And when they too were in the 
midst of the sea, she cut the rope, 
and they were carried away by the 
water of the sea. At length there 
remained a very few on the other 
side, they being now few indeed. 
And one of those who remained 
said, "At last the people of the 
king are come to an end." So 
they turned back. 

r home , and finds it desolate. 

Then Usitungusobenthle set 
out, and arrived at the country of 
her people. When she came, there 
were no people left ; they had been 
eaten by the Isikguk^umadevu. 
She saw a mountain which used 
not to be there formerly : she said, 
" What is this mountain ? " She 
went on and approached it, near 
the place where the village of her 
people formerly stood : she found 
a great thing, to wit, the Isik^u- 
k^umadevu, which she at first 
thought was a mountain. 

ik(\uk(\umadevu , and animals and 
all things are renewed. 


Wa sondela eduze naso, wa 
hamba ngapantsi kwaso, e pete 
umkonto ; wa si dabula ngapantsi 


She approached close to it, and 
went under it, carrying a knife in 
her hand, and cut open its belly . 12 


12 In a former tale, the Isik^ukgumadevu swallows Untombinde, and is 
killed by a man who had been bereaved of his children by the monster. Here 
the monster is killed by a woman. In the Basuto legend "Litaolane took a 
knife, and, deaf to his mother's entreaties, went to attack the devourer of the 
world. Kammapa opened his frightful jaws, and swallowed him up." But 
Litaolane cuts his way out, killing the monster, and making way for the natives 
of the earth to escape from the living grave. In the American Indian legends, 
there is an account of a monstrous sturgeon of the Big-sea-water, Lake Supe- 
rior, which swallowed Hiawatha and his canoe. Hiawatha 
" Groped about in helpless wonder, 

Till he felt a great heart beating, 

Throbbing in that utter darkness. 

And he smote it in his anger 
With his fist the heart of Nahma." 

The monster dies, and Hiawatha is delivered from his prison by the birds of 
prey. ( Longfellow's Hiawatha. ) 


ULUHLAZASE. 


85 


esiswini. Kwa puma kuk^ala 
inkuku ; ya ti, " Kukuluku ! Nga 
li bon' izwe ! " Ngokuba kad' i 
nga sa li boni. Ngemva kwen- 
kuku kwa puma umuntu ; wa ti, 
" Hau ! Nga za nga li bon' izwe !" 
Ngasemuva kwake kwa puma in- 
komo ; ya ti, " TJuum ! Nga li 
bon' izwe ! " Ngemva kwayo kwa 
puma inja ; ya ti, " Hau, hau, 
hau ! Nga li bon' izwe ! " Nge- 
mva kwayo ya puma imbuzi ; ya 
ti, " Me, me ! Nga li bon' izwe !" 
Ngemva kwayo kwa puma imvu ; 
ya ti, " Be, be ! Nga li bon' izwe." 
Ngemva kwayo kwa puma izinto 
zonke. Kwa buywa, kw' akiwa, 
kwa buswa futi ; kwa ba njenga- 
loko kade kunjalo. 

Kwa sokuba ukupela ke. 
Ulutuli Dhladhla (IJsetemba). 


There came out first a fowl; it 
said, " Kukuluku ! 13 I see the 
world ! " For for a long time it 
had been without seeing it. After 
the fowl there came out a man ; 
he said, " Hau ! I at length see 
the world ! " After him there 
came out a bullock ; and said, 
" Uuum ! I see the world ! " 
After the bullock there came out 
a dog ; it said, " How ! how ! 
how ! I see the world ! " After 
the dog there came out a goat ; it 
said, " Mey, mey, I see the world." 
After the goat there came out a 
sheep ; and said, " Bey ! bey ! I 
see the world." After the sheep 
there came out all other things. 
And men again built houses, and 
were again happy ; and all things 
returned to their former condition. 

And that was the end of it. 


ULUHLAZASE. 


Two princesses with their attendant maidens go to bathe. 


Kw' esukela , 14 intombi za ya 'u- 
geza, zi hamba liamakosazan' ema- 
bili : encane i tandwa uyise ka- 
kulu ; enkulu e nga i tandi. En- 
kulu kwa ku Ubu/daluse ; encane 
ku UluAlazase. Za fika ke esizi- 
beni. Za bukuda. 


Once on a time some damsels 
went to bathe, accompanying 
two princesses : the younger was 
much beloved by her father, but 
he did not love the elder. The 
elder was named IJbuthlaluse, and 
the younger Uluthlazase . 15 They 
came to the pool, and sported in 
the water. 


13 The sounds used by the natives to imitate those of the various animals 
are here given. 

14 A narrative which is supposed to be a mere fiction is opened by Kw' esukela. 
It is thus known that fiction and not fact is about to be related. They some- 
times open it by, Insimu y' esuka, i sukela pezulu. 

15 Ubuhlaluse and Uluklazase are proper names of women. Feminine 
proper names are formed in two ways, by prefixing Uno, or suffixing se; as, 
Uno-mali, or, U-mali-se. So U-buMalu-se, The bead-woman. It may be a name 
invented to commemorate the introduction of beads among the natives. — 
U-lu/ilaza-se may mean, The green -woman, a similar compliment being intended 
by it as by Ukr/wekqwana lotshani, given to Untombinde, p. 56. Or, as luhlaza 
also means jet-black, it may mean, The jet-black woman. 


86 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The Isikqukqumadevu ta 

Zi te lapo zi ti zi za 'upuma, za 
si bona ke Isik^ukgumadevu. Sa 
tata izigheghe zazo. Za puma 
izintombi, za ti , 1 ' Sikgukgumadevu, 
si nike izigheghe zetu." Sa zi 
nika. Zi buye zi suke futi ezinye 
zi tsho njalo, zi ti, " Sikg'ukguma- 
devu, si nike izigheghe zetu." Za 
pela intombi. 

Uluthlcizase refuses to ask for her 

Y' ala inkosazana ukutsho esi- 
k^ik^umadevwini, ukuti, a si i 
nike isigheghe sayo, Ulu/dazase in- 
kosazana. Enkulu sa i nika Isikgu- 
kgumadevu. Encinane a i nikwa- 
nga, ngokuba ya i zikgenya. Za i 
ncenga ezinye intombi, za ti, 
" Yitsho ke, nkosazana, esik^ukgu- 
madevwini." A ya ze ya vuma 
ukutsho. Za ti ezinye 'zintombi, 
" Se si za 'ku ku shiya." Za i 
shiya ke. 

The princess fights wit 

Ya bona ukuti ya shiywa ezinye 
'zintombi, ya si bamba Isikgukgu- 
madevu, i ti, i s' amuka isigheghe 
sayo. Ya lwa nesikgukyumadevu. 
Isikgukgumadevu sa i hhudula 
intombi, sa tshona nayo esizibeni. 
Kwa lwa futi nayo esizibeni in- 
tombi. Y' aAlulek' intombi ; 
s' a/duleka nesikgukgumadevu. Sa 
Alala naso manje esizibeni, ngokuba 
se si katele. Ya h \ ala nentombi, 
ngokuba nayo se i katele. Sa lala 
kona Isikgukgumadevu nentombi. 


16 Isigheghe is that portion of the 
of the male, which may be translated 


es away their garments. 

When they were about to go 
out, they saw the Isikgukguma- 
devu. It took their garments . 16 
The damsels quitted the water, 
and said, " Isikguk^umadevu, give 
us our garments." It gave them. 
Again others said the same, cry- 
ing, " Isik^ukgumadevu, give us 
our garments." Every one of the 
damsels did so. 

garments , and is left by the others. 

But the princess Uluthlazase 
refused to ask the Isikguk^uma- 
devu to give her her garment. 
The Isik^ukgumadevu had given 
the elder princess hers. It did 
not give the younger one, because 
she was proud. The other damsels 
besought her, saying, " O princess, 
just ask the Isikr/ukgumadevu. " 
But she would on no account 
agree to ask. The others said, 
" We will now leave you." So 
they went away. 

/ the I sik(\uk(\umadevu. 

When she saw that she was for- 
saken by the other damsels, she 
laid hold of the Isikgukgumadevu, 
thinking she would take away 
from it her garment. She fought 
with the Isikguk^umadevu. It 
dragged her along on the ground, 
and sank with her in the pool. 
She continued to contend with it 
also in the pool. The damsel was 
unable to conquer, and so was the 
Isik^ukgumadevu. It now rested 
in the pool, because it was tired ; 
and the girl rested also, because 
she was tired. The Isikyuk^uma- 
devu slept there, and so did the 
girl. 

male dress which answers to the isinene 
q kilt. 


ULUHLAZASE. 


87 


The 1 sihquhqumadevu goes to fetch assistance , and Uluthlazase 

escapes. 


Kwa sa kusasa, Isikgukgnma- 
devu sa hamba, se si funa ukuya 
'ubiza ezinye Izik^uk^umadevu, 
ngokuba se s' aAlulekile, intombi i 
namand/da. Kwa vela esinye 
isilwanyana, sa tsliela intombi, sa 
ti, " Hamba, ngokuba Isik^ukgu- 
madevu si yobiza ezinye Izik§u- 
kg'umadevu." Ya si tata ke leyo 
'ntombi isigbeghe sayo ; ya kupuka 
ke emanzini ; ya hamba ke, ya 
y' ekaya. 


In the morning the Isikguk^u- 
madevu departed, wishing to call 
other Izik^uk^umadevu, for it was 
unable to conquer, for the damsel 
was strong. There came another 
animal, and said to her, " Go 
away, for the Isikgukgnmadevu 
has gone to call others." So she 
took her garment, and went up 
out of the water, and returned 
home. 


The other girls deceive Uluthlazase' s parents , and are hilled. 


Ya fika ekaya, intombi zi ti, "I 
tombile." Ya ngena end/dini 
kwabo. Wa kala unina, wa ti, 
" U vela pi? loku izintombi zi ti, 
u tombile." Ya ti, " Za ngi shiya 
esikguk^umadevwini." Unina wa 
tshela uyise, ukuti, " Umntwana, 
nangu wa e sesikguk^umadevwini." 
Uyise wa tata umkonto wake, wa 
u lola, wa zi vimbezela izintombi, 
wa ti, " Yeza ni umntanami, ngi m 
bone." Za m Aleka intombi. Za 
ti, " Uku m tanda kwako ku ya 
bonakala ; ngokuba u t' a u m 
bone e tombile." Wa t' uyise, 
" Pela, ngi ti, ngi vezele ni yena, 
ngi m bone." Z' engaba intombi, 
za ti, " U tombile ; a si yi 'ku ku 
vezela yena." Wa tukutela uyise, 
wa ngena end/dini : za m bamba 
intombi ; wa wa k^abula amakuko, 


When she reached her home, 
the other girls were reporting that 
she had come to puberty. She 
went into her mother's house. 
Her mother wept, saying, 
" Whence comest thou? For the 
other girls say that the signs of 
puberty have come upon thee." 
She replied, " They left me with 
the Isik^ukgumadevu." The mo- 
ther told her father, saying, " Our 
child, behold she was with the 
Isik^ukgumadevu." The father 
took his assagai, and sharpened it, 
and barred the way against the 
other girls, and said, " Produce 
my child, that I may see her." 
The girls laughed at him. They 
said, " Your love for her is evident, 
for you would see her when she 
has the signs of puberty upon her." 
The father said, " Notwithstand- 
ing, I say, bring her out to me, 
that I may see her." The girls 
refused, saying, " She has the signs 
of puberty ; we will not bring her 
out." The father was angry ; he 
went into the hut : the girls 
caught hold of him ; he pulled 
aside the mats ; he saw that his 


N 


88 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


\va bona ukuba nmntanake ka ko. 
Wa zi bamba ke izintombi, wa 
pumela nazo pandAle, wa zi bulala 
zonke. Wa i bulala ke nenkosa- 
zana yake Ubu/daluse, wa zi bu- 
lala zonke intombi. Ba buz' a- 
bantu ukuti, " Nkosi, abantwana 
u ba bulalele ni na?" Wa ti, 
" Ba m bulele UluAlazase. Ba m 
shiya esik^uk^umadev wini. " Wa 
m veza ke UluAlazase. Ba ma- 
ngala ke abantu bonke ngokuba za 
fike za ti, u tombile. 


child was not there. So he seized 
the girls, and dragged them out- 
side, and killed them all. He 
killed also his princess Ubuthla- 
luse ; he killed all the girls. The 
men asked, " Sir, why have you 
killed the children 1 " He replied, 
" They killed Uluthlazase. They 
left her with the Isik^uk^uma- 
devu." He brought her forth. 
So all the people wondered, for 
the girls had said, " She has the 
* signs of puberty." 


The father summons the nation , and goes in quest of the Isikqukqii- 

madevu. 


Wa si mema ke isizwe uyise 
kaluAlazase, wa ti, "A ko funwa 
Isikgukgumadevu." Kwa hanjwa 
ke nenkosazan'. Ya ba tshengisa 
ke isiziba. A ngena ke amadoda 
esizibeni. Sa tukutela Isikgnkgu- 
madevu, sa puma ; ba si bulala. 


Then TJluthlazase's father sum- 
moned the nation, and commanded 
the men to go in quest of thelsik^u- 
kgumadevu. The princess went 
also, and showed them the pool. 
The men entered the water ; the 
Isik^ukgumadevu was in a rage, 
and came out, and they killed it 


The damsels which the I sikqukqumadevu had devoured are recovered , 
and their fathers rejoice. 


Za puma ke intombi zonke 
zelizwe lonke ; ngokuba be si 
hambe si Alala esizibeni sentombi, 
si dMa intombi zi nga file. Kwa 
buywa nazo ke, kwa yiwa ekaya. 
Kw' ezwakala koyise bentombi 
ukuti, "Abantwana benu ba ve- 
lile." B' eza nenkomo zokuza 
'utata abantababo. Ba zi nika 
Usikulumi. Ba hamba nazo ke 
intombi zabo. 


Then there came out all the 
damsels of the whole country ; 
for it was accustomed to go and 
remain in the pool where the dam- 
sels bathed, and devour them 
alive. They went home with, 
them. The damsels' fathers heard 
it reported that their children had 
come forth ; and they came with 
cattle with which to take back 
their children. 17 They gave them 
to Usikulumi. And went away 
with their children. 


17 It is a custom among the Zulus if a child has been lost, and found by 
another man, for the parent to reclaim it by the offering of a bullock. The 
fathers are here represented as not merely fetching their children which the 
Isikrpikf/umadevu had devoured, but bringing cattle, as it were to redeem 
them. 


ULANGALASENIILA NOLANGALASENZANTSI. 


89 


Ulutlilazase becomes queen. 


Ya busa inkosazan' UluAlazase ; 
wa busa nezincane ke intombi. 
Uyise ke wa Alaba inkomo zoku- 
jabulisa umntanake, uba wa e 
dAliwe Isikguk^umadevu. Ba m 
bonga kakulu abantu, oyise ben- 
tombi, owa koka abantababo esi- 
kgukgumadevwini, ngokuba wa si 
bulala. 


Then Uluthlazase the princess 
governed ; she governed with the 
young girls, [who were not grown 
up when the others forsook her.] 
Then her father slaughtered cattle 
to make his child glad, because 
she had been carried away by the 
Isik^ukgumadevu. And the men, 
the fathers of the damsels, thanked 
him exceedingly, who had taken 
their children out of the Isik^u- 
kgumadevu, because he killed it. 


What the IsiJcquJcc[umadevu was like. 


Ku tiwa Isikgukg-umadevu a si 
naboya, sa si isilwane eside, si 
sikulu. Intombi lezo sa si zi 
ginya, si nga zi d/di. 

Unyaose Kciya, 
(Sophia, Umkajosefa.) 


It is said that the Isikyuk^uma- 
devu was hairless ; it was a long 
and large animal. It used to 
swallow the young girls without 
eating them . 18 


ULANGALASENIILA NOLANGALASENZANTSI . 19 

(ULAN GAL ASENTHLA AND ULAN GALASEN ZANTSI. ) 


Kwa ku te ekuk^aleni, kwa zalwa 
UlangalasenAla, kwa zalwa Ula- 
ngalasenzantsi. Yebo. 


It used to be said long ago that 
Ulangalasenthla was born, and 
then Ulangalasenzantsi. That 
was it. 


18 This legend is very inferior in its general style to many of the others, 
and is devoid of life and incident. It was related by a young Ibakca woman. 
But it is worth retaining, as it appears to be made up of many others. Thus 
we have the two princesses, going with their attendants to bathe, as in the tale 
of Untombinde ; but here the name is Uluthlazase ; she is, however, the 
daughter of Usikulumi. Then the girls do not deceive in that tale, but go 
home weeping and report that she has been taken away by the Isikgukguma- 
devu. There is no fight there, as here, between the damsel and the monster, 
but she is swallowed up by it like others ; and the army sent against it by Usi- 
kulumi is also destroyed ; and it is ultimately killed by a man who has lost 
" twin children which were much beloved. " Some of the other incidents are 
related in the tale of Usitungusobenthle ; but there a cannibal takes the place 
of the Isikgukgumadevu. Then in a third tale Usitungusobenthle is carried off 
at the age of puberty by pigeons, and, after her escape from captivity, kills the 
Isik<7uk<7umadevu, which had swallowed all her people, &c. 

19 Ulangalasenhla, Sun-of-the-West. Ulangalasenzantsi , Sun-of-thc-East. — 


90 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ulangalasenzantsi goes to fetch his children : his way is obstructed by 
ten swollen rivers , which divide , and he passes onward. 

Ulangalasenzantsi said, " I am 
going to fetch my children, when 
I have collected ten oxen." He 
took a good-for-nothing old, ragged 
garment, and so went to fetch his 
children, which were with Ulanga- 
lasenthla. He came to a swollen 
river ; he threw in one ox ; 20 the 
river divided, and he passed 
through. So now he went on his 
way. He came to another swollen 
river ; again he threw in an ox ; 
the river opened, and he passed 
through. So he went on his way. 
He came to another swollen river ; 
he cast in a third ox ; the river 
opened ; and so he went on his 
way. He came to another swollen 
river ; he cast in another ox ; 
the river opened ; and so he went 
on his way. He went to the fifth 
river, and found it full ; he cast in 
another ox ; the river opened ; 
and he went on his way and passed 
through. So he went on his way, 
he having at length crossed the 
tenth river. So he went and 
went, going now alone ; the ten 
oxen being now all disposed of. 

These words, used as the names of the two kings, show that the legend had its 
rise among people dwelling on the Eastern shore, — that is, where the course of 
the rivers is towards the east. The sea is below, the mountains above ; and so 
the Eastern sun, rising from the sea, is the Lower sun ; and the Western, set- 
ting over the mountains, is the Upper sun. 

20 It is a custom among native tribes of South Africa to pay respect to 
rivers, which would appear to intimate that formerly they were worshipped, or 
rather that individual rivers were supposed to be the dwelling-place of a spirit. 
Thus when a river has been safely crossed, it is the custom in some parts to 
throw a stone into its waters, and to praise the itongo. Thompson, in his 
Travels in Southern Africa, speaking of the religion and superstitions of the 
Amakccosa, says : — "Sometimes they sacrifice to the rivers in time of drought, 
by killing an ox and throwing a part of it into the channel." (Vol. II., p. 
352.) When Dingan's army was going against Umzilikazi, on reaching the 
banks of the Ubulinganto, they saluted it, saying, "Sa ku bona, bulinganto," 
and having strewed animal charcoal ( umsizi ) on the water, the soldiers were 
made to drink it. The object of this was to deprecate some evil power destruc- 
tive to life, which was supposed to be possessed by the river. It is a custom 
which cannot fail to recall what is recorded of Moses under somewhat different 
circumstances. (Exod. xxxii. 20. ) There can be little doubt that Ulangalase- 
nzantsi threw the oxen into the rivers as a sacrifice to the amatongo , or more 
probably to river -gods. 


Wa ti Ulangalasenzantsi, " ISTgi 
za 'kulanda abantwana bami, ngi 
bute izinkabi ezi lishumi." Wa 
tata ingubo embi, e 'sidwaba nje ; 
wa liamba ke, e landa 'bantwana 
ku 1 angalasen/da. Wa funyana 

umfula u gcwele ; wa ponsa enye 
inkabi ; wa damuka umfula ; wa 
wela. Wa liamba ke kaloku ke. 
Wa funyana omunye u gcwele ; wa 
ponsa enye futi ; wa vuleka um- 
fula ; wa wela ; wa hamba ke. 
Wa funyana omunye u gcwele; 
wa ponsa enye yobutatu ; wa 
vuleka umfula ; wa hamba ke. 
Wa funyana omunye u gcwele ; 
wa ponsa enye ; wa vuleka um- 
fula; wa hamba ke. Wa hamba 
kwowesi/danu umfula; wa funyana 
u gcwele ; wa ponsa enye ; wa 
vuleka ; wa hamba ke ; wa wela. 
Kwa za kwa ba kwoweshumi ; wa 
hamba ke, e se wele oweshumi 
umfula. Wa hamba ke, wa hamba 
ke, e se hamba yedwa, inkabi se zi 
pelile ezi lishumi. 


TJLAXGALASENHLA N OL AN GALAS EN ZAN TS I. 


91 


Re comes to a spring , and falls in with his daughter's child. 


W T a fika ke emtonjeni lapa ku 
kiwa kona amanzi omuzi kalanga- 
lasen/da. Wa funyana abantwana 
abancinane be baningi kakulu. 
Wa fanisa umntwana, wa ti, " Lo 
'mntwana okabani na % " Ba ti, 
" Okalangalasen/da. " Wa ti, " U- 
nina ubani na % " Ba ti, " Uma- 
langalasenzantsi. ' ' Wa ti, "A!" 
Wa ti, " Woza lapa." Wa tata 
um/danga. (Ngokuba be be ye 
' kuk a um/danga bonke abantwana.) 
Wa u kcoboza um/danga walowo 
'mntwana wakwandodakazi yake, 
wa ti, " Hamba ke, u ye kunyoko, 
u ti, k' eze 'eze 'kukelela wena ; u 
ti, i Um/danga wami, m'ame, n 
file; bamba wena, u ye 'ku ngi 
kelela umAlanga wami.' " Wa 
hamba ke unina, wa fika emAla- 
ngeni. 


So at length he came to a 
spring, where the water of the 
village of Ulangalasenthla was 
fetched. He found there very 
many little children. He thought 
he saw a resemblance in one of 
the children, and said, "Whose 
child is this ? " They said, " Ula- 
ngalasenthla's." He said, " What 
is his mother's name ? " They 
said, " Umalangalasenzantsi. " 21 
He said, " Ah ! " He said, " Come 
here." He took a reed. (For all 
the children had gone to gather 
reeds.) He crushed the reed of 
that child, the child of his daugh- 
ter ; and said, " Just go to your 
mother, and tell her to come and 
pluck a reed for you ; say, 1 Mo- 
ther, my reed is broken ; do you 
go, and pluck a reed for me.' " So 
his mother went, and came to the 
bed of reeds. 


V langalasenzantsi makes himself known to his daughter. 


W r a t' e sa fika, wa puma Ula- 
ngalasenzantsi, wa ti, " Woza lapa, 
mntanami." Y' etuka inkosikazi, 
ya kala, ya ti, " Baba, u vela pi h 
loku Ulangalasen/da u ti, a nge ku 
bone ngame/do ake ; a nga ku 
bulala, ngokuba e /deli nabantwana 
bako, u za 'kwenza njani na?" 
Wa ti Ulangalasenzantsi, wa ti, 
" IJ za 'kuti, ngi zitolele uwhahi- 
whahi lwami olu ng' Ubombi. U 
nga tsho ukuba ngi u ye Ulanga- 
lasenzantsi. U ngi fi Ale kuye 
Ulangalasen/da. U ti ngi umfo- 
kazi nje." Wa ti, "U babele ni 
na lapa, loku u ya songelwa ; ku 


When she came, Ulangala- 
senzantsi went out, and said, 
" Come hither, my child." The 
queen started and cried and said, 
" My father, whence do you come ? 
Since Ulangalasenthla says, he 
cannot set eyes upon you ; he 
could kill you, because he has 
possession of your children, what 
will you do ? " Ulangalasenzantsi 
said, " You shall say, ' I have 
taken under my protection, for my 
own service, my tall man, whose 
name is Ubombi .' 22 Do not say I 
am Ulangalasenzantsi. Conceal 
me from Ulangalasenthla. Say I 
am merely a foreigner." She said, 
" What is your business here, see- 
ing that you are threatened, and 


21 Umalangalasenzantsi , — that is, the daughter of Ulangalasenzantsi. 

22 Ubombi.- -A ragged, shabby fellow. 


92 


IZIXGANEKWAXE. 


tiwa u nge ze wa vela lapa ? " 
Wa ti, " U za 'udAla ni na ? loku 
kini ni dAla izinkwa zodwa, lo lapa 
ku dAliwa utshwala bodwa ; uku- 
dAla kwamadoda." Wati, " U za 
'u ngi gavela umbakgunga ' n ngi 
beke endAlini yakwasalukazi sa- 
kwako. A ngi yi 'kuvela, a nga 
ngi bona Ulangalasen/da. Ngi ya 
'kuvela, ngi se ngi pumule. Ngi 
za 'uke ngi pumule, and' uba ngi 
ba bute abantwana bonke besizwe 
sakiti. Ngi lande bona bonke 
nawe. Ngi za 'ku m bulala um- 
yeni wako." 


it is said you are not to make your 
appearance here ? " She also said, 
" What will you eat ; since at 
home you eat bread only, whilst 
here beer only is drunk ; that is 
the men's food ? " He said, " You 
shall grind for me, and make me 
stiff porridge ; and put me in the 
house of the old woman of your 
family. I will not appear openly, 
Ulangalasenthla may see me. I 
will appear openly when I have 
rested. I will just rest, and then 
collect all the children of our 
nation. I fetch them all and you. 
I am about to kill your husband." 


Ulangalasenzantsi appears openly to Ulangalasenthla . 


Kwa sa ngelobutatu ilanga, wa 
puma endAlini Ulangalasenzantsi. 
Wa puma UlangalasenAla, wa 
kuluma, wa ti, " Lo u vela pi na ? 
Ubani lo na? O nga ti Ulanga- 
lasenzantsi na?" Wa ti, "I mina. 
Ngi lande abantwana bami bonke 
besizwe sakwiti." (Ba be tunjwe 
impi kalangalasen/da.) Wa ti, 
"Wo ! Laba 'bantwana u nge ze 
wa ba landa : abami. Ku za wa 
b' ezwa." 


On the morning of the third 
day Ulangalasenzantsi went out of 
the house. And Ulangalasenthla 
went out and said, " Whence 
comes this fellow? Who is he? 
Is he not like Ulangalasenzantsi ?" 
He said, " It is I. I am come to 
fetch all the children of our na- 
tion." (They had been taken cap- 
tive by Ulangalasenthla's army.) 
He said, "Wo! You shall never 
take away the children : they 
are mine. You shall never gain 
possession of them ." 23 


Ulangalasenthla summons his soldiers, and orders them to hill Ulanga- 
lasenzantsi. 


Wa biza umfana, wa ti, " Me- 
meza impi yami, i ze 'kuzwa. 
Nantsi indaba i fikile." Ya fika 
impi yake. Wa ti, " Mu bulale 
ni Ulangalasenzantsi. Ngi y' ala 


He called a boy, and said, 
" Summon my soldiers, that they 
may come and hear. There has 
arisen a matter of great import- 
ance." His soldiers came. He 
said, " Kill Ulangalasenzantsi. I 


23 Ku za wa 6' ezwa, i.e., a hi sa yi ' haze wa 6' ezwa, "You shall never feel 
them," — that is, lay hand on them, so as to possess them. This is said when a 
dispute has arisen about children, and implies either a threat to kill the person 
to whom it is addressed ; or merely an assurance that he will lose his case. 
If he gains the case, as he is walking off with the children, he may say in deri- 
sion to his opponent, "I ba pi o te a ngi 'uze nga b' ezwa na ? A si bo labo 
na?" Where are those whom you said I should never lay hand on ? Are they 
not these ? 


ULANGALASENHLA NOLANGALASENZANTSI. 


93 


nabantwana." Ba m ponsa bonke 
ngemikonto. Ya t' imikonto a ya 
fika kuye ; ya Alaba nje kodwa. 
Wa i buta yonke ; wa ba nikela 
yona. Ba pinda ba ponsa. A i 
fikanga ; 'emi nje yena ; a ya fika 
futi imikonto yabo. Wa ti, " Ngi 
n' a/dulile ke kaloku. Leti ni ke 
abantwana bonke." Wa vuma 
UlangalasenAla. Wa ti, " Yebo, 
u s' a/dulile." Wa ba buta bonke, 
wa ti, "Mu nike ni abantwana 
bakubo." Ba butana ke bonke. 
Wa ti, " Nampa ke abantwana 
bakini. Hamba ke." Wa liamba 
ke. 


Ulangalasenthla sends his a\ 

Kwa ti emuva Ulangalasen/da 
wa landelisa impi yake yonke. 
Wa ti, "Hamba ni ke. Ku 
lungile. Ni m kgedel' en/de kanye 
nabantwana bake ; ni buye ke 
nina, bant a barni." Ya hamba ke 
impi. Ya hamba ke, a ya fika ; 
kwa u loku i hamba nje i nga fiki. 


They come to a flooded river , 


refuse to give up the children." 
All hurled their spears at him. 
The spears did not reach him ; 
they merely fell on the ground. 
He collected them all, and gave 
them to the soldiers. Again they 
hurled their spears. They did not 
reach him ; he remained standing ; 
their spears did not reach him the 
second time. He said, " So I 'have 
conquered you now. Bring me then 
all my children." Ulangalasenthla 
agreed. He said, " Yes, you 
have now conquered us." He col- 
lected them all, and said, " Give 
him all the children of his people." 
So they all came together. He 
said, " Behold the children of your 
people. So go in peace." So he 
went on his way. 

ny after Ulangalasenzantsi. 

It came to pass afterwards that 
Ulangalasenthla made all his army 
pursue him. He said, " Go. You 
can kill them now . 24 Put an end 
to him in the wilderness, together 
with his children ; and then do you 
come back, my people." So the 
army set out. It did not come up 
with him ; though it went dili- 
gently, it did not come up with him. 

divides , and allows them to pass . 


Ba za ba ya ba fika emfuleni o 
'manzi abomvu ; omkulu kakulu ; 
be u funyana u gcwele kakulu. 
Ulangalasenzantsi wa pakamisa 
intonga yake yobukosi ; wa i 
pakamisa, umfula wa ngamuka, 
ba wela bonke. Ba Zdala ke, ba 
y' etula imitwalo yabo, ba jabula, 
ba dAla, ba peka nokupeka. 


Ulangalasenzantsi and his chil- 
dren at length came to a river 
whose waters were red ; it was 
very great : they found it very 
much flooded. Ulangalasenzantsi 
raised his royal rod ; he raised it, 
and the river was stayed, and they 
all passed over. Then they sat 
down, and took off their loads, 
and rejoiced and ate ; they cooked 
a large quantity of food. 


24 Ku lungile . — It is right, — that is, they have got into such a position that 
we can readily kill them. If a man is pursuing another, and he sees that he 
has placed himself in such a position, as by running towards an impassable pre- 
cipice, he shouts, Wa lunga! "You are all right ! " 


94 


IZlNGANEKWANE. 


The soldiers arrive at the river ; it divides : they enter ; it closes , and 
overwhelms them. 


Ya fika impi pezu kwomfula. 
Ya merneza, ya ti, " Ni wele pi 
na ? " Ba ti, " Si wele kona lapo. 
Wela ni, ni ze 'ku si bulala." Ba 
ti bona, " K^abo ! A ni welanga 
lapa. Si tshele ni?" Wa tata 
intonga yake XJlangalasenzantsi ; 
wa i pakamisa ; umfula wa nga- 
muka. Wa ti, "Wela ni ke 
manje." Ba ngena bonke. Um- 
fula ubanzi. Ba te be pelele em- 
fuleni, wa i beka intonga yake ; 
umfula wa ba zibekela bonke. 


The army reached the bank of 
the river. They shouted and said, 
" Where did you cross over ? " 
They said, " In this very place. 
Do you cross over, and come and 
kill us." They said, "No indeed ! 
You did not cross here. Tell us." 
XJlangalasenzantsi took his rod, 
and raised it, and the river was 
stayed. He said, " Cross over 
now then." They all entered. 
The river was wide. When they 
were all in the river, he dropped 
his rod, and the river overwhelmed 
them all. 


Ulangalasenzantsi and his children rejoice. 


Ba tokoza ; ba dAlala abantwana 
bake Ulangalasenzantsi ; ba jabula 
kakulu. Wa ti yena, " A ni boni 
ke na ? Ba pelile abe be za 'ku si 
bulala." Wa ti, " Twala ni ke, ni 
hambe, ni ye kwiti." Ba twala 
ke, ba hamba ke. 


They rejoiced ; the children of 
Ulangalasenzantsi played ; they 
rejoiced exceedingly. He said, 

" Do you not see then ? They 
are come to an end, who were 
coming to kill us." He said, 

" Take up your loads, and let us 
go to our people." So they took 
up their burdens, and set out. 


Ulangalasenzantsi and many others die in the way ; a few reach their 

home. 


Wa fa end/deleni Ulangala- 
senzantsi. Ba hamba *bodwa ke 
kaloku. Kwa vela umfo wabo 
owa be e kona kubo abantwana ; 
wa hamba nabo. Kwa vela ukufa, 
kwa ba bulala abadala ; ba sala 
abancane, ba sala nendoda yanye. 
Ba hamba ke njalo, ba za ba ya ba 
fika ezweni lakubo. Kwa kalwa 
kakulu. Kwa tiwa, " U pi umfo 
wenu ? " Wa ti, " U fele ezin- 
dAleleni." Kwa tiwa, " U fele pi 


Ulangalasenzantsi died in the 
way. The people now went by 
themselves. His brother, who had 
been with the children, came, and 
went with them. Death came, 
and killed the old men. The 
young remained ; they remained 
with only one man. And so they 
journeyed, and at length came to 
the country of their people. There 
was a great lamentation. They 
said, " Where is your brother ? " 
He replied, " He died in the way." 
They said, " Where did he die ? " 


ULANGALASENHLA NOLANGALASENZANTSI. 


95 


na 3 " Wa ti, " Kami a ngi bona- 
nga lap' e fele kona. Nomunye 
nomunye umfo wetu a ngi m 
bonanga, a ngi ba laAlanga nje ; 
ba fa, ngi nga ba boni. Sa hamba 
kabi ; sa hamba pakati kwezita. 
A ng' azi nokuba ba bulawa izita 
ini na." 

Ba Alala ke; b' aka ke; ba 
jabula ke ; ba za ba buya b' anda. 

Le 'nsumansumane indaba en- 
dala pakati kwakiti. Ku tiwa 
insumansumane, ngokuba labo aba 
be i kuluma kade ba dAlula ka- 
kidu ; a ku s' aziwa uma i vela pi. 
Kepa ku tiwa insumansumane 
endala, ku nga ka fiki nabamAlope 
kulo 'mAlaba. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


He replied, "Neither did I see 
where he died. And another and 
another of our brethren, I did not 
see them, I did not bury them ; 
they died without my seeing them. 
We journeyed with difficulty 
through the midst of enemies. I 
do not know even that they were 
killed by the enemy." 

So they remained, and built 
houses, and rejoiced, and at length 
again became a great people. 

This legend is an old tale 
amongst our people. It is called 
a myth, because they who used to 
tell it passed away a very long 
time ago ; and it is no longer 
known whence it was derived. 
But it is said that it was an old 
legend, even before the white men 
came to this country. 25 


25 Whatever may have been the origin of this tale, there are few who will 
not at once refer it to the history of Moses and Pharaoh. Vasco de Gama dis- 
covered Natal in 1497. In 1600 the Dutch trading vessels began to touch at the 
Cape, and in 1650 they formed a settlement there. A crew of a wrecked Eng- 
lish ship passed through Natal to Capetown in 1683. ( Holden's History of 

Natal, p. 36. j Kolben says: — "The Caffres traffick with the Rovers of the 
Red Sea, who bring 'em Manufactures of Silk for Elephants' Teeth. These 
Manufactures the Caffres exchange, as Ships from Europe touch at de Natal, for 
European commodoties ; often for Tar, Anchors, and Cordage ; which they ex- 
change again with the Rovers of the Red Sea. The Silk they put not off to the 
Europeans, they dispose of to the Monomotapos. The Portuyueze of Mozam- 
bique trade not a little with 'em." (Kolben. Op. cit. Vol. I. , p. $2.) It is 
certain, therefore, that for many years the natives of Natal have had abundant 
opportunities of receiving from others the substance of this i ale, which they 
may have worked up into a tale of their own. For whencesoever derived, it is 
now essentially Zulu in its character and accessories. At the same time, we 
cannot deny that it may be a tradition of the sojourn of the Israelites in Egypt 
and their deliverance from bondage, handed down from generation to generation, 
gradually becoming more and more corrupted, until the natives scarcely recog- 
nise of themselves any resemblance between it and the Sc? ipture narrative, 
which they now have an opportunity of hearing from the missionaries, or read- 
ing for themselves. In another tale the sea divides at the wo :d oi Usitunguso- 
benthle, when she is flying from the country by whose peoj she had been 
taken captive. And in the Hottentot fables, in like manner, Hcitsi Eibip when 
pursued by an enemy prays, and the w'ater divides, and he and his people pass 
through ; and the enemy, attempting to follow, are destroyed. These facts 
show the wide-spread existence of such a traditiou, and would appear to suggest 
some common origin. Dr. Bleek has shown that the Hottentot language belongs 
to the class of languages spoken in North Africa ; and it may be regarded as an 
established fact that the Hottentots came from the north, having been separated 
from the northern tribes by the intrusion of another people, speaking a lan- 
guage of another class — the alliterative or Kafir language. ( Bleek' s Comparative 


o 


96 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


UBABUZE . 26 


Ubdbuze obtains his father's permission to visit a maiden. 


Kw' esukela, inkosi igama layo 
Ubabuze ; kepa ya i tsandza ukuya 
entombini. Uyise wa y alela, aba- 
tali bayo ; wa tsi, " Musa ni 'kuya 
kuleyo 'ntombi, ngobane a ku yi, 
lu buya ko." Kepa inkosi Uba- 
buze wa tsi, "Ndi ya tsandza 
ukuya lapo." Kepa uyise wa m 
vumela manje, wa m nika itinkomo 
etiningi ; wa tsi, ak'a kambe ke. 
Wa m nika abantu 27 tuts' boku- 
kamba naye. 


It happened that there was a king, 
whose name was Ubabuze; and 
he was wishing to visit a damsel. 
His father and mother objected ; 
the father said, " Do not go to see 
that damsel, for no one goes there 
and comes back again." But the 
king Ubabuze said, " I wish to go 
there." Then the father assented, 
and gave him many cattle, and bid 
him good bye. He gave him also 
men to accompany him. 


Ubabuze sets out with his people : he goes by the wrong road. 


Wa kamba ke ; abantu wa ba 
butsa bonke, wa kamba ke. Warn 
tshena k' uyise ukutsi, " Mntwa- 
nami, u nga kambi ngaleyo 'nd/de- 
la ey enyuka entsabeni; a u bo 
kamba ngendAlela yentsambeka." 
Wa kamba ke. Kepa kwa tsi 
ekwa/dukaneni kwend/dela tom- 
bini, wa i yeka Ubabuze lowo 
leyo 'ndAlela uyise a b' e tsi, at' a 
kambe ngayo ; wa kamba ngaleyo 
'nd/dela uyise ab'e tsi, at'a nga 
kambi ngayo. 


So he set out ; he assembled his 
men, and set out. His father told 
him, saying, " My child, do not go 
by that road which goes up the 
mountain ; but go by the road 
which runs round it." So he set 
out. But it came to pass that, at 
the separation of the two roads, 
Ubabuze left the road by which 
his father had told him to go ; and 
went by that road by which his 
father told him not to go. 


Grammar , p. viii. — Prof. Max Muller's Lectures. Second Series , p. 11.) It 
may not, therefore, be unreasonably surmised that they brought this tradition 
with them from their former home ; and have imparted it to the Kafirs. It is 
worth noticing that in one of the Scotch legends, the daughter of a magician 
helps a lad, with whom she has fallen in love, to perform the difficult tasks 
appointed him by her father, and among other things " she strikes the sea with 
a rod, and makes a way to the island, where the nest was," which he had been 
commanded to fetch. (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. /., p. 51 .) So in "The Three 
Musicians," the dwarf is possessed of a magical rod, with which he struck the 
waters, "and immediately they divided, and left a passage, across which they 
passed with dry feet." (Bechstein's Old Story-Teller , p. 136. ^ 

2G This tale was told by a woman of the Amabakca, and it is printed in 
their dialect. 

27 Abantu . — I have not attempted to represent by orthography the sound 
the Amabakca give to t in this and in many other words, when followed by cer- 
tain vowels. It is difficult to say whether the t is followed by a slender f v, 
u, or w sound. 


UBABUZE. 


97 


Ubabuze gets into trouble , cm 

Kwa tsi pambili wa fukana iti- 
lwanyana etiningi ; ta m bona e sa 
vela, ta m memeta e se kudze, ta 
tsi, " Babuze, babuze bankosi ! " 
Wa tsi ke Ubabuze, " Ubawo u 
be ngi tshena, e tsi, te ndi nga 
kambi ngale 'nd/dela ; wa tsi 
indMel' imbi, i namadzhamtela." 
Ngaloku 'kutsho kwawo wa wa 
nika inkomo taningi. A buya a 
pindzha futs', a tsi, " Babuze ban- 
kosi ! " Wa w engeta futs', wa 
wa nika inkomo, ukud/da kwamad- 
zhamtela. A ti k^edza ke, in- 
komo ta pela manje. A buya a 
kcela futs', a ts', "Babuze ban- 
kosi ! " Wa wa pa abantu manje. 
A buya a pindzha futs', a ts', 
" Babuze bankosi ! " Wa ba k^e- 
dza manje abantu. A kcela futs' 
amadzhamtela. Wa koAlwa ma- 
nje, ngobane abantu se be pelile. 
Wa kamba e se yedvwa jnanje. 


Ubabuze is hel% 

A buya a kcela futs', a ts', 
" Babuze bankosi ! " Wa gijima, 
wa fukana imbiba pambili. Ya 
ts' imbiba, "Ng' obule, u patse 
isikumba sami." Wa y obula 
kamsinya, ngokubane nanka amad- 
zhamtela e se ta 'kudAla, e se 
kedute. Wa si tata isikumba 
ke, sa m fukula manje ke, e se fika 
e funa uku mu d/da ; sa m paka- 
misela etulu emafwini; a kamba 
pansi ke amadzhamtela. A buyela 
emva amadzhamtela. 


I loses all his cattle and men. 

It came to pass that, on going 
forward, he fell in with many wild 
beasts ; they saw him as soon as 
he appeared, and shouted to him 
when he was still at a distance, 
and said, " Ubabuze, Ubabuze, son 
of the king!" Ubabuze said, "My 
father told me not to go by this 
road ; he said it was a bad road, 
and infested by hyenas." At the 
saying of the hyenas he gave them 
many cattle. They said again, 
" Ubabuze, son of the king ! " He 
again gave some more cattle in 
addition to the first, the food for 
the hyenas. At length the cattle 
were all gone. The hyenas again 
asked, and said, " Ubabuze, son of 
the king ! " Now he gave them 
men. Again they said, " Ubabuze, 
son of the king ! " He now gave 
them all his people. The hyenas 
again asked. He did not know 
what to do, for the men were all 
gone. He went on his journey 
alone now. 

d by a mouse. 

The hyenas again asked, saying, 
" Ubabuze, son of the king ! " He 
ran, and fell in with a striped 
mouse in front. The mouse said, 
" Skin me, and carry my skin in 
your hand." He skinned it imme- 
diately, for there were the hyenas 
coming to eat him, they being 
now near at hand. So he took the 
skin, and it now bore him aloft 
when the hyenas came, wishing to 
eat him ; it lifted him on high to 
the clouds ; the hyenas went on 
the ground. The hyenas turned 
back again. 


98 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ubabuze is conveyed through the air to his destination. 


Sa m kambisa ke isikumba ema- 
fwini ; sa m beka ekcaleni kwo- 
inuti, lapo ku kona intombi a i 
tsandzako. Wa ngena ke ekaya, e 
se e kamba pansi manje. U 
kamba naso ke isikumb' esi, e si 
bopele etintongeni take. Ba 
Alaba umkosi ke ekaya ngokujabnla 
okukulu, ngokutsi, "Wa fika um- 
yeni wenkosatana." 


The skin bore him in the clouds, 
and put him down at the side of 
the kraal where was the damsel 
which he loved. He went into 
the house, he now walking on the 
ground. He took with, him the 
skin, having bound it to his rods. 
They celebrated a festival at the 
kraal with great joy, saying, " A 
husband has come for the prin- 
cess." 


Ubabuze remains there a year , and then sets out with the wedding 

party. 


Wa /datshiswa inkomo. Wa 
Mala ke. Wa ta wa pela lo 'nyaka 
a ye ngawo, e sa Aleli kona. TJyise 
wentombi kwa ts' uba ku pele 
unyaka wa mema umtsimba om- 
kulu wokuba u yotshatisa intombi 
yake. Ba ba ningi abantu aba- 
kambako. 


They killed cattle for him, and 
he staid there. At the end of the 
year in which he went, he was still 
staying there. The damsel's father, 
when the year was ended, assem- 
bled a large marriage party, that 
it might go to the wedding of his 
daughter. Very many people of 
that place went. 


Ubabuze takes many cattle with him. 


Wa tsi, " Ngi nike ni futsi 
inkomo etiningi, ngobane ku kona 
amadzhamtela end/deleni; ngobane 
nami lapa nda ndi te nesive esi- 
ningi, nda ndi si nikwe ubawo, sa 
d/diwa amadzhamtela endMeleni." 
Wa m nika ke inkomo etiningi. 
Wa kamba ke nayo intombi ke 
nenkomo nabantu. 

Ubabuze restores to the mouse 

Wa fika ke lapo amadzhamtela 
a m beka kona ; wa fukana inyama 
yembiba, wa si beka ke isikumba 
enyameni yembiba; wa i Mabela 
ke imbiba inkabi, wa i shiya ke 
yonke leyo 'nyama, ya sa i d/diwa 
imbiba. 


Ubabuze said, " Give me also 
many cattle, for there are hyenas 
in the way; for I, when I was 
coming with many men, which 
my father gave me, the hyenas ate 
the whole of them in the way." So 
he gave him many cattle. And 
he set out with the damsel, and 
the cattle, and the people. 

its skin , and kills cm ox for it. 

He came to the place where the 
hyenas left him ; he found the 
flesh of the striped mouse, and put 
its skin on it ; and then killed an 
ox for it, and left the whole of its 
flesh, and the mouse ate it. 


UMUNTU NENYONI. 


99 


Ubabuze's 'party exti 

Wa fika emadzhamteleni ; a 
buya a kcela futs', a ts', " Babuze 
bankos' ! " A ka wa nikanga 

'luto. Umne wabo intombi wa 
li gwaza elinye idzhamtela, eli 
inkosi yawo ; a f' onke amadzha- 
mtela. 

V babuze reaches home with his b 

Ba kamba ka/de ke manje. Ba 
vela ke ekaya kubo, kwa kalwa, 
ubane ku bonwe inkosi i sa buya, 
lo kwa ku tsiwa, I ya 'kufa. Ya 
fika ke ekaya ke ; kwa Alatshwa 
inkomo ke etiningi ; kwa Alatshi- 
swa umtsimba nayo inkosi indo- 
dzana yabo. Ba tshata ke. Wa 
inkosikati ke. Abane wabo a ba 
be be sa buyela ekaya. Wonke 
umtsimba w' aka kona. 

Unyaose Kciya, 
(Sophia, Umkajosefa.) 


rminate the hyenas. 

He came to the hyenas; they 
begged again, saying, " Ubabuze, 
child of the king ! " He did not 
give them anything. The brother 
of the damsel killed one of the 
hyenas, which was their chief; and 
all the hyenas died. 

ide, and there is great rejoicing. 

And so they now travelled 
prosperously. They came to their 
home. They made a funeral 
lamentation when they saw the 
king return, for they thought he 
would die. So he came to his 
home ; and many oxen were kill- 
ed; they killed for the marriage 
party, and for the king, their child. 
They were married, and she be- 
came the queen. Her brothers 
never went home again. The 
whole marriage party lived there. 


UMUNTU NENYONI. 
(the man and the bird.) 


A woman goes to labour in the field : her labour is rendered useless by 

a wagtail. 


Ba ti kambe, ab' az' insumansu- 
mane, kwa ku kona kukgala in- 
dAlala enkulu, ku nge ko izinkomo 
futi. Kwa ti umfazi wa ya ; ku- 
lima ensimini ; kwa ti kwa fika 
inyoni, ibizo layo umvemve. 
Umfazi wa lima, wa buya, wa 
y' ekaya. Kwa ti kusasa wa buya 
wa ya futi ukuya 'kulima. Kwa 
ti indima e be i lime izolo, ka bi 


They say who are acquainted with 
old wives' tales, that there was 
formerly a great famine, and, be- 
sides, there were not any cattle. 
A woman went to dig in the 
garden ; and there came a bird, 
which is called umvemve. 2S The 
woman dug, and went home again. 
In the morning she went again to 
dig. The new ground, which she 


28 The wagtail. 


100 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


sa i bona ; wa fika, se ku njengo- 
tshani nje. Wa ti, " Indima e 
ngi i lime izolo i pi na 1 " e kulu- 
ma yedwa. Wa pinda wa lima 
futi, e se pinda okobubili. Kwa 
ti e sa lima, kw' eza itiyoni, ya 
Alala pezu kwomuti ebusweni bake, 
ya ti, " Tshiyo, tshiyo, tshiyo ! 
Um/daba kababa lo, e ngi ti ng' a- 
la nawo. U b' u ngi pikelele. 
Zidinjana, mbembe ! Bewana, sa- 
kasaka ! Mpinyana, pok^opok^o ! 
Gejana, ntshi ! " 


had dug yesterday, she could no 
longer see ; she arrived at the 
place, and it was just like the 
grass. She said, " The ground I 
dug yesterday, where is it ? " 
speaking to herself. She dug again 
the second time. As she was dig- 
ging there came the bird, and sat 
on a tree in front of her, and said, 
" Tshiyo, tshiyo, tshiyo ! That is 
the land of my father, which I 
have always refused to allow to be 
cultivated. You have acted in 
opposition to me. Little clods, 
turn back again ! Little seeds, be 
scattered in all directions ! Little 
pick-handle, snap to pieces ! Little 
pick, fly off!" 29 


The woman again tries , but the wagtail , as before , renders her labour 

vain. 


Kwa ti wa ya 'kulima futi ; 
umfazi wa fika ; indima e be i 
lime izolo, futi e nga sa i boni ; so 
ku njengaloku be ku njalo : ngo- 
kuba izidinjana za ti mbembe; 
nembeu ya ti sakasaka ; nompini 
wa puka ; negejo la ti ntshi. Wa 
pinda wa lima futi. Ya fika 
inyoni, ya ti, "Tshiyo, tshiyo, 
tshiyo ! UmAlaba kababa lo, e 
ngi ti ng' ala nawo. XJ b' u ngi 
pikelele. Zidinjana, mbembe ! Be- 
wana, sakasaka ! Mpinyana, po- 
kgopokgu ! Gejana, ntshi ! " Kwa 
se ku ba njengokutsho kwayo. 
Izidinjana za ti mbembe ; nembeu 
ya ti sakasaka ; nompini wa puka ; 
negejo la ti ntshi. 


The woman went to dig again ; 
she came ; a second time she could 
no longer see the ground she had 
dug on the day before ; it was now 
as it used to be : for the little 
clods had turned back ; the seed 
was scattered ; and the handle was 
broken ; and the pick was off. 
Again she dug. The bird came, 
and said, " Tshiyo, tshiyo, tshiyo ! 
That is my father's land, which I 
have always refused to have culti- 
vated. You have acted in oppo- 
sition to me. Little clods, turn 
back again ! Little seeds, be 
scattered ! Little pick-handle, 
snap to pieces ! Little pick, fly 
off ! " And so it was in accordance 
with its saying. The little clods 
turned back ; and the seed was 
scattered ; and the handle was 
broken; and the pick flew off. 


29 These diminutives are to be understood as spoken in contempt, and not 
to refer to size. 


UMUNTU NENYONI. 


101 


She goes home and tells her husband of the wonderful bird. 


Wa buya futi umfazi ukuya 
ekaya, wa ya 'kutshela indoda 
yake ; wa ti kuyo, " I kona inyoni 
e ngi ti lapa ngi limayo, i fike, i ti 
kwimi, ' TJmAlaba kababa lo, e ngi 
ti ng' ala nawo. Ub'u ngi pikelele. 
Zidinjana, mbembe ! Bewana, sa- 
kasaka ! Mpinyana, pok^opokgo ! 
Gejana, ntsbi ! ' Se ku njengoku- 
tsbo kwayo." 


The woman went home again to 
tell her husband ; she said to him, 
" When I am digging, there is a 
bird which comes and says to me, 
4 That is my father's land, which 
I have always refused to have cul- 
tivated. You have acted in oppo- 
sition to me. Little clods, turn 
back ! Little seed, be scattered ! 
Little handle, snap to pieces ! 
Little pick, fly off ! ' And it is as 
it says." 


The husband catches the bird , and obtains a feast , which he eats alone. 


Kwa ti kusasa kwa puma um- 
fazi kukgala, wa ya 'kullma, se be 
kcebe ikcebo lokuti, " Uma se ngi 
lima, wo fika, wena ndoda, u ze 
'kubona oku tshiwoyo inyoni." 
Ya landela indoda, ya Mala eduze 
nomfazi, ya kcatsha. Kwa ti um- 
fazi e lima, ya fika inyoni futi, ya 
pinda ya tsho njalo. Indoda ya se 
i zwa, ya vumbuluka pantsi, ya 
pakama, ya i bona inyoni e kulu- 
mayo : ya i sukela, ya i kax)tsha ; 
ya baleka inyoni, nendoda nayo 
futi. Inyoni ya tshona ngalukalo, 
indoda ya tshona ngalukalo futi ; 
ya i kccotsha njalo ; ya za ya dinwa 
inyoni ; ya i bamba. Ya ti inyoni, 
"A k' u ngi yeke ; ngi za 'ku 
kw enzela umlazana." Indoda ya 
ti, " Ake w enze ke, ngi bone." 
Y' enza, ya kam' umlaza, ya ti 
kAla. Ya puza indoda. Ya ti 
futi, " Ake w enz' isang^ondwa- 
ne." Ya ti pu/du, pu/du, pu/du. 


In the morning the woman 
went out to dig first, they having 
devised a plan, to wit, " When I 
am digging, you shall come, hus- 
band, to see what the bird says." 
The husband followed, and sat 
near the woman, in concealment. 
As the woman was digging, the 
bird came again, and said the same 
as before. The husband heard it, 
and came up from under the bush 
on the ground, and raised himself, 
and saw the speaking bird : he 
sprang at it, and drove it away ; 
the bird fled, and the man also ran 
after it. The bird passed over the 
hill, the man passed over also he 
drove it without ceasing ; at length 
the bird was tired, and the man 
caught it. The bird said, " Leave 
me alone, and I will make you 
some whey." The man said, " Just 
make it then, that I may see." 
The bird made it, and strained the 
whey ; it gurgled . 30 The man 
drank. He said also, " Just make 
curds too." It made a flopping 
noise . 30 The man ate, and was 


30 Khla, Puhlu . — These are onomatopoetic words, and are intended to imi- 
tate the sound occasioned respectively by taking out the stopper of the calabash 
for the purpose of pouring out whey, and that occasioned by pouring out the 
thick curds. 


102 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ya d/da indoda, y' esuta, loku 
kad' i lambile ; i jabula, ya ti, i 
tole inkomo. Ya hamba nayo, ya 
fika end/dini kwayo, ya i faka 
embizeni, ya i nameka, ukuba 
abantwana nomfazi wayo ba nga i 
boni, ku be isisulu sayo yodwa; 
ngokuba ya ku zuza yodwa. 

The husband again feasts alone , 

Kwa ti umfazi wa ya 'kulima, 
nendoda ya ya 'kulima ; ba buy a 
bobabili futi ; indoda ya fika, kwa 
/dwa ; ba lala bonke ; yona kodwa 
a ya ze ya lala : ya ya embizeni, 
ya zibukula. Wa fika, inyoni i s' i 
te kcoka pezulu : wa i bamba nge- 
sand/da ; wa ka amasi, wa kela 
esitsbeni sake ; wa buya, wa i faka 
embizeni, wa i nameka. Wa 
d/da amasi yedwa, se be lele bonke 
abantwana nonina. 


satisfied, for he had been a long 
time hungry ; and said, rejoicing, 
that he had found a cow . 31 He 
went home with it, and put it in 
a pot in his hut, and luted it 
down, that his wife and children 
might not see it ; that it might be 
his own private titbit ; for he got 
it by himself. 

by night , when the rest are asleep. 

The wife went to dig, and the 
husband went to dig ; both came 
back again ; the husband returned 
when it was dark; they all lay 
down to sleep ; but the man did 
not sleep : he went to the pot, and 
uncovered it. The bird was sitting 
on the top : he held it in his 
hand ; he poured out the amasi 32 
into his vessel ; and again put the 
bird into the pot, and luted it 
down. He ate the amasi alone, 
all the children and their mother- 
being asleep. 


One of the children , having seen the father feasting , reveals the dis- 
covery to the other. 


Kwa ti kusasa indoda y' emuka, 
ya ya 'kugaula izibonda; umfazi 
wayo wa ya 'kulima ; kwa sala 
abantwana bodwa. Kanti omunve 
umntwana u m bonile uyise e d/da 
amasi yedwa, wa ba tshela abanye 
kusasa, wa ti, " Ngi m bonile 
ubaba ; ku kona e be ku dAla ku- 
siAlwa, se si lele sonke ; u zibu- 
kule embizeni ; nga bona e ka 
amasi kona ; nga tula nje, nga -ti, 
i kona e ya 'kuti a nga hamba a 


In the morning the man went 
to cut poles, and his wife went to 
dig ; and the children remained 
alone. But one of the children 
had seen his father eating the 
amasi alone, and said to the other 
children, " I saw father ; there was 
something which he was eating in 
the night, when we were all 
asleep ; he took the cover off the 
pot ; I saw him pour out amasi 
from it; I was silent, and said, 
there is something which will take 
him to a distance ; and then 


31 This wonderful bird was only a little inferior to Mick Purcell's Bottle, 
which he purchased of one of the " Good People " with his last cow, from which 
proceeded at suitable times " two tiny little fellows," who spread his table with 
the best of food, on gold and silver dishes, which they left behind ; very con- 
siderately remembering that Mick and his family required other things besides 
food ! (Croker's Fairy Tales. "Legend of Bottle Hill," p. 33 . ) 

32 Amasi . — Sour milk, but properly prepared, not what we should under- 
stand by sour milk. The native name is therefore retained. 


UMUNTU N EX YON I. 


103 


ye kude, si sale, si wa d/de amasi, 
loku e si ncitshayo." Ba sala, ba 
ya 'kuzibukula embizeni ; ba i 
fumana inyoni i s' i te kcoka 
pezulu kwamasi ; ba i bamba ; ba 
d/da, ba d/da, ba d/da, ba dAla, ba 
za b' esuta. Ba sibekela futi. Wa 
ti uyise, " Banta bami, ni dAle ni 
na, ni snti kangaka nje na ? " Ba 
ti, " A si suti 'luto," be m koAlisa. 


we will eat amasi, for he be- 
grudges us." Then they went to 
uncover the pot ; they found the 
bird sitting on the top of the 
amasi ; they held it ; they ate, 
they ate, they ate, they ate, until 
they were satisfied. They covered 
it up again. The father said, " My 
children, what have you been eat- 
ing, to be so stuffed out ? " They 
said, "We are not stuffed out with 
anything," deceiving him. 


A ll the children watch their father at his solitary nocturnal feast. 


Kwa /dwa indoda f enza njalo 
futi, se be lele bonke futi. Kanti 
omunye u ba tshelile ikcebo, ukuba 
ba ze ba nga lali, ba ke ba bheke 
ukuba uyise wabo u ya 'kwenza 
njani na. Lapa se be lele bonke, 
y' enza njalo ke indoda ; ya zibu- 
kula, ya d/da, ya d/da ; ya buya, 
ya sibekela. Kanti se be m bonile 
abantwana bake, ukuba u ya ba 
ncitsha ukud/da. Ba ti, " Ku ya 
'kusa kusasa, si ya 'kubona ukuba 
ka yi 'kumuka ini na." 

During the feast of the < 

Kwa ti kusasa y' emuka indoda. 
Ba ya ba zibukula ; ba fika, inyoni 
i s' i te kcoka pezulu ; ba i susa ; 
ba d/da, ba d/da. Wa ti o i peteyo 
ya m punyuka, ya baleka, ya ti 
dri ; ya /dala emnyango. Omunye 
umntwana, Udemazane ibizo lake, 
wa ti, " Demane, nansi inyoni ka- 
baba i muka bo ! " Udemane wa 
ti, " Ake w enze ka/de, mnta ka- 
baba, ngi sa funda 'mtanyana." 
Y' esuka inyoni emnyango, ya ti 
dri ; ya Mala pandAle ebaleni. Wa 


In the night the husband did 
the same again, when they were 
all again lying down. But one of 
them told them a plan, that they 
should not sleep, but just see what 
their father would do. When they 
had all lain down, the man did as 
before ; he opened the pot, and 
ate, and ate ; and then covered it 
up again. But his children had 
seen him, and knew that he be- 
grudged them food. They said, 
" The morning will come, and we 
shall see if he will not go out." 

hildren , tJie bird escapes. 

In the morning the man de- 
parted. The children went and 
uncovered the pot ; when they 
came, the bird was sitting on the 
top ; they took it out, and ate, and 
ate. The bird slipped from him 
who held it, and flew away with a 
whir, and stopped at the doorway. 
One of the boys, Udemazane by 
name, said, " Udemane, see father's 
bird is going away then ! " Ude- 
mane said, "Wait a bit, child of 
my father, I am in the act of fill- 
ing my mouth." The bird quitted 
the doorway with a whir, and 
stopped outside in the open space. 


p 


104 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ti Udemazane futi, " Demane, 
nansi inyoni kababa i muka bo ! " 
Wa ti Udemane, "Ake w enze 
ka/de, mnta kababa, ngi sa funda 
'mtanyana." Y' esuka inyoni eba- 
leni, ya ti dri ; ya /dala pezu kwo- 
tango. Wa pinda wa tsho njalo 
IJdemazane. Inyoni ya ze ya 
ndiza, ya hamba, y' emuka. Kwa 
ku pela. 


Udemazane said again, "Udemane, 
see father's bird is going away 
then ! " Udemane said, " Just 
wait a bit, child of my father, I 
am in the act of filling my mouth." 
The bird quitted the open space 
with a whir, and pitched on the 
fence. Udemazane said the same 
words again. The bird at length 
flew away and departed* That 
was the end. 


The father , finding the bird gone, mourns in vain for his titbit 


Wa buya uyise. Kwa ti kusi- 
Alwa, e ti u se za 'kutola isisulu 
sake, ka be sa i bona inyoni, amasi 
futi e nga se nga nani. Wa 
mapgala, wa biza abantwana bake, 
wa ti, " Ku pi o be ku lapa em- 
bizeni na 1 " Ba ti abantwana, 
"A si kw azi." Omunye wa ti, 
" Kg^bo ! Ba ya ku ko/disa, 
baba. Inyoni yako ba i yekile ; 
y' emuka ; namasi futi si wa 
d/dile." Wa ba tshaya kakulu, e 
mangalele isisulu sake, e ti u se za 
'kufa indAlala. Kwa so ku ba 
'kupela ke. 

Ulutuli Dhladhla (Usetemba.) 


The father returned. At night, 
when he thought he was going to 
get his titbit, he no longer saw the 
bird, and there was no longer 
much amasi left. 33 He won- 
dered, and called his children, 
and asked, " What has been here 
at the pot 1 " The children said, 
"We don't know." But one said, 
"No, then ! They are deceiving 
you, father. They have let go 
your bird, and it has gone away ; 
and we have eaten the amasi also." 
He beat them very much, punish- 
ing them for the loss of his titbit, 34 
thinking he should now die of 
famine. So that was the end. 35 


33 Lit., Was no longer as big as anything. 

34 Lit., charging them with having taken away his titbit. 

35 The reader will find the power of rendering labour vain, ascribed to a 
bird in the above tale, ascribed to all beasts, in a legend of Central America : — 
' ' When the two princes Hunahpu and Xbalanque set themselves one day to till 
the ground, the axe cut down the trees and the mattock cleared away the 
underwood, while the masters amused themselves with shooting. But the next 
day when they came back, they found the trees and creepers and brambles back 
in their places. So they cleared the ground again, and hid themselves to watch, 
and at midnight all the beasts came, small and great, saying in their language, 
4 Trees, arise; creepers, arise!' and the trees returned to their places." 
( Ty tor's Early History of Mankind , p. 356 . ) Compare also Note 52, p. 51. 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


105 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


The wives of a certain king give birth to crows. His queen has no 

child. 


Kwa ku kona inkosi etile ku- 
leso 'sizwe ; ya i zala abantwana 
aba amagwababa, i nga m zali 
umntwana o umuntu ; kuzo zonke 
izind/ilu i zala amagwababa. Kepa 


There was a certain king of a 
certain country ; he used to have 
children who were crows , 36 he had 
not one child that was a human 
being ; in all his houses 37 his chil- 
dren were crows. But his queen 


36 There are among the natives legends of women giving birth to crows, 
and to beings resembling horses and elephants. Such legends probably had 
their origin in monstrous births, which bore a real or fancied resemblance to 
such animals. This notion of human females giving birth to animals is common 
among other people. In the Prose Edda we read of the woman Gref j on, who 
had four sons by a giant, who were oxen. ( Mallet. Northern Antiquities , p. 
398. ^ And of the hag, Jarnvid, who was the mother of gigantic sons, who 
were shaped like wolves. (Id., p. 408. j Loki gave birth to the eight-legged 
horse, Sleipnir. (Id., p. 434.,) In the Pentamerone we read of a woman who 
brought forth a myrtle, which turned out to be a fairy, who ultimately married 
a prince. (" The Myrtle.") Pasiphae gave birth to the monstrous Minotaur ; 
and Leda to two eggs, from each of which sprang twins. And in a recent 
number of All the Year Round we read of a Mary Loft, living during the last 
century, who succeeded in persuading many men of science, that she had be- 
come the mother of sixteen rabbits ! 

But this giving birth to animals is almost always, in these tales, 
spoken of as a disgrace to the human being, and is felt to be a reproach. In 
some tales a charge of giving birth to animals is made against a queen by malice 
for the purpose of taking away the king's affection. And the term Igwababa 
(crow) is an epithet of contempt ; it is not clear in some of the tales whether 
we are to understand it in this way or literally. It is evident, however, in the 
tale of Ukcombekcantsini, that we are to understand the word literally. All 
the children of the king were crows. It is amusing to see how the people ap- 
pear to think that giving birth to such animals is better than sterility. We 
alluded above to the notion of marriage with animals as possibly intimating a 
sympathy with the lower world of animal life. But clearly it is not such a sym- 
pathy as would allow, or scarcely even suggest, the possibility of overleaping 
the natural antipathy which exists between the human and all other animal 
species. This is evident from the repugnance which is frequently expressed for 
the bridegroom whilst under the animal form ; and which is overcome only, 
when under that form he manifests the dispositions of man ; the sympathy is 
with the human spirit even when manifesting itself under the form of a lower 
animal ; the love is for the human being which the animal form conceals ; and 
whilst that form is ascribed to the wicked influence of magic, love often becomes 
the immediate means of delivering the spell-bound being from his degradation. 
Such tales, therefore, really become parables in which the power of love over 
brute nature, to exalt and elevate it, receives illustration. The invariably much 
greater repugnance expressed for giving birth to animals, on the other hand, 
may be a kind of protest against degeneration. Many such legends were origi- 
nally, no doubt, metaphorical, or alluded to some read fact misunderstood and 
misexplained. 

37 Each wife of a polygamist has her own dwelling and establishment ; each 
such separate establishment is called a house. 


10.6 


12IN GANEKWANE. 


inkosikazi yayo ya i ngo namntwa- 
na, kwa ku tiwa inyumba ; ya 
7dala isikati eside i nga zali. Be i 
Aleka bonke nabesifazana labo bona 
aba zala amagwababa, be ti, " Ka- 
nti tina si ya zala namagwababa 
odwa lawa, kepa wena a u zali 
'luto. Kepa u ti u umuntu wo- 
kwenza ni na?" A kale, a ti, 
"Kepa nga zenza ini na? loku 
nani ni ya zala ngokuba kwa tiwa, 
Zala ni." 


bad no child ; it was said she was 
barren ; she remained a long time 
without having any child. All 
used to jeer her, and even the very 
women who gave birth to crows, 
saying, "We indeed do give birth 
only to crows ; but you give birth 
to nothing. Of what use then do 
you say you are ? " She cried, 
saying, " But did I make myself? 
For even you are mothers, because 
it was said, ' Be ye mothers.' " 38 


The childless queen receives assistance from some pigeons. 


Wa ze w' emuka wa ya 'ulima; 
ngesikati sokulima, kwa ti lapa 
insimu e se za 'u i k^eda, kwa fika 
amavukutu emabili ; a fika kuyena 
e Alezi pansi, e kala. La ti elinye 
kwelinye, la ti, " Vukutu." La ti 
elinye, " U ti 'Vukutu' ni na, u 
nga buzi uma u kalela ni na?" 
Wa ti, " Ngi ya kala ngokuba ngi 
nga zali. Abanye abafazi benkosi 
ba ya zala amagwababa, kepa mina 
a ngi zali 'luto." La ti elinye, 
" Vukutu." La ti elinye, " U ti 
'Vukutu' ni, u nga buzi ukuti 
uma si m zalisa a nga si nika ni?" 
Wa ti, "Ngi nga ni nika konke e 
ngi nako." La ti, " Vukutu." La 
ti elinye, "II ti 'Vukutu' ni, u 
nga buzi ukuti ukudAla kuni a 
nga si nika kona na?" Wa ti, 
"Ngi nga ni nika amabel' ami." 
La ti, "Vukutu." La ti elinye, 
" U ti ' Vukutu ' ni, ]oku si nga 
wa d/di amabele ? " Wa ti, " Ngi 
ya 'u ni nika amadumbi." La ti, 
" Vukutu." La ti elinye, " U ti 


At length she went to dig ; 
when she was digging, and the 
garden was now nearly finished, 
two pigeons came to her as she was 
sitting on the ground and weeping. 
One said to the other, " Vukutu." 
The other said, " Why do you say 
' Vukutu,' and not ask why she is 
crying ? " She said, " I am crying 
because I have no child. The 
other wives of the king give birth 
to crows ; but I give birth to 
nothing." One said, "Vukutu." 
The other said, " Why do you say 
'Vukutu,' and not ask her what 
she will give us, if we give her 
power to have a child ? " She 
replied, " I could give all I pos- 
sess." One said, " Vukutu." The 
other said, " Why do you say 
' Vukutu,' and not ask what food 
she will give us ? " She said, " I 
would give you my amabele." 39 
One said, " Vukutu." The other 
said, " Why do you say ' Vukutu,' 
since we do not eat amabele?" 
She said, " I will give you ama- 
dumbi." 40 One said, "Vukutu." 
The other said, " Why do you say 


38 Kwa tiwa , Zala ni . — This saying is worthy of note. It is common 
among the natives. They say it is a reference to the word which Unkulunkulu, 
when he broke off all things from Uthlanga in the beginning, uttered, deter- 
mining by an ordinance all future events. 

39 Amabele , Native corn. 

40 Amadumbi, a kind of arum, the tubers of which are used as food. 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


107 


* Yukutu ' ni, u nga ti, a si wa 
tandi amadumbi." Wabalakonke 
ukud&la a nako. A kw ala. Wa 
ze wa ti, " 'Kupela kokudAla e ngi 
nako." La ti, " Yukutn : u nawo 
amabele ; kepa tina si funa inAla- 
kuva." Wa ti, " 0, ngi nazo in- 
Alakuva. makosi ami." La ti 
elinye, Yukutu." La ti elinye, 
" U ti ' Yukutu' ni, u nga ti a ka 
tshetshe masinya, a ye ekaya a 
yo'utata inAlakuva ? " 


1 Yukutu,* and not tell her we do 
not like amadumbi ? " She men- 
tioned all the kinds of food she 
had. They refused it all. At 
length she said, " That is all the 
food I have." The pigeon said, 
" Yukutu : you have amabele ; 
but for our part we like castor-oil 
seeds." She said, " O, I have 
castor-oil seeds, sir." One saicj* 
"Yukutu." The other said, "Why 
do you say ' Yukutu,' and not tell 
her to make haste home at once, 
and fetch the castor-oil seeds?" 41 


The queen fetches castor-oil seeds for the pigeons. 


W' esuka masinyane umfazi, wa 
gijima, wa ya ekaya ; wa fika wa 
zi tata in/dakuva, zi sempandeni, 
wa zi tululela ekgomeni ; wa zi 
twala, wa ya nazo ensimini. Wa 
fika, la ti elinye, " Yukutu." La 
ti elinye, " TJ ti 'Yukutu' ni, u 
nga ti, a ka tele pansi ? " Wa zi 
tela pansi inAlakuva. A kcotsha 
amavukutu, a kgeda. 


The woman ran home at once ; 
on her arrival she took the castor- 
oil seeds which were in a pot, 42 
and poured them into a basket, 
placed them on her head, and went 
with them to the garden. On her 
arrival one said. " Yukutu." The 
other said, " Why do you say 
' Yukutu,' and not tell her to pour 
the seeds on the ground ? " She 
poured the castor-oil seeds on the 
ground. The pigeons picked them 
all up. 


The pigeons draw blood from her , and tell her what to do with the 

clot. 


A ti e se k^edilc, la ti elinye, 
"Yukutu." La ti elinye, "U ti 
* Yukutu ' ni, u nga buzi uma u ze 
nalo upondo nenAlanga na ? " Wa 
ti, "K^a." La ti elinye, "Yu- 
kutu." La ti elinye, " U ti 1 Yu- 


When they had eaten them all, 
one said, "Yukutu." The other 
said, " Why do you say ' Yukutu,' 
and not ask her if she has brought 
a horn and a lancet ?" 43 She said, 
" No." One said, " Yukutu." 
The other said, " Why do you say 


41 Compare the conversation between the Ravdhs in the tale of "The 
Faithful Johan." ( Grimm. Op. cit . , p. 29. j And that between the gold and 
the silver pigeons in "The Battle of the Birds." (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. 
/., p. 37.) 

42 Umpanda is an earthen pot which is cracked, and no longer of any use 
but for holding seed, &c. 

43 Inhlanga is a term applied both to the small knife with which the natives 
scarify, and to the scarifications. 


108 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kutu ' ni na, u nga ti, ka hambe a 
lande upondo nenAlanga ? " ¥a 
gijima, wa fika ekaya, wa tata 
upondo nenAlanga, wa buya ma- 
sinyane. Wa fika, la ti elinye, 
" Yukutu." La ti elinye, " U ti 
' Yukutu ' ni, u nga ti, ka fula- 
tele ? " Wa fulatela. La ti eli- 
nye, " Yukutu." La ti elinye, 
" U ti ' Yukutu ' ni, u nga m gcabi 
esingeni na ? " Lam gcaba. Kepa 
uma se li kgedile uku m gcaba, la 
tata upondo, la tela kona iAlule. 
La ti elinye, " Yukutu." La ti 
elinye, " U ti 'Yukutu' ni, u nga 
ti uma e se fikile ekaya, a ka ze a 
fane isitsha esikulu, a tele pakati 
kwaso, ku ze ku fe inyanga ezim- 
bili, k' and' uma a zibukule esi- 
tsheni ? " Wa buya, wa fika, 
w' enza njalo. 


' Yukutu,' and not tell her to go 
and fetch a horn and a lancet?" 
She ran home, and fetched a horn 
and a lancet, and came back im- 
mediately. On her arrival one 
said, "Yukutu." The other said, 
" Why do you say ' Yukutu,' and 
not tell her to turn her back to 
us 1 ?" She turned her back to 
them. One said, "Yukutu." The 
other said, " Why do you say 
' Yukutu,' and not scarify her on 
the loins'?" The pigeon cupped 
her; but when he had finished 
cupping her, he took the horn, and 
poured the clotted blood into it. 
One said, " Yukutu." The other 
said, " Why do you say ' Yukutu,' 
and not tell her on reaching home 
to find a large vessel, and pour the 
clotted blood into it, until two 
moons die ; and then uncover the 
vessel?" She went home and 
did so. 


She fouls two children in the clot at the end of four months. 


Wa Alala inyanga za za za ba 
mbili. Kwa ti uma so ku twasa 
eyesitatu inyanga, wa funyanisa 
abantwana be babili. Wa ba kipa 
kuleso 'sitsha. Wa buya wa ba 


She remained two months : 
when the third new moon ap- 
peared, she found two children ; 44 
she took them out of the vessel ; 
and placed them again in another 


44 In Stephens' Incidents of Travel in Central America there is a curious 
legend, which may be compared with this. An old woman mourned that she 
was childless. She took an egg, covered it with cloth, and laid it in a safe place. 
She examined it daily, and at length was gladdened by finding it hatched, and 
a baby bom. The baby thus obtained had many characteristics in common 
with Uthlakanyana. In the Polynesian mythology, Maui is represented as 
having been prematurely bom as his mother was walking on the sea shore ; she 
wrapped the abortion up in a tuft of her hair, and threw it into the foam of the 
surf ; it became enfolded in sea- weed, and the soft jelly-fish rolled themselves 
around it to protect it. His great ancestor, Tama-nui-ki-te-Rangi, attracted by 
the flies, ''stripped off the encircling jelly-fish, and behold within there lay a 
human being." And Mqjii became the Great Hero. In the same legends the 
origin of Whakatau, the great magician, is still more remarkable : — " One day 
Apakura went down upon the sea-coast, and took off a little apron which she 
wore in front as a covering, and threw it into the ocean, and a god named Ron- 
gotakawiu took it and shaped it, and gave it form and being, and Whakatau 
sprang into life, and his ancestor Rongotakawiu taught him magic and the use 
of enchantments of every kind." (Grey. Op. cit., pp. 18, 19, and p. 1 16. ^ — 
Compare also the Highland legend of the birth of Gili-doir Maghrevollich, or 
The Black Child, Son to the Bones. ( Scott's Lady of the Lake. Note on the 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


109 


faka kwenye imbiza. Wa Alala 
kwa ba izinyanga ezintatu e nga 
blieki kona. W a ti lapa e se 

bheka ngeyesine inyanga, wa fu- 
nyana se be bakulu, se be Aleka ; 
wa jabula kakulu. 


large pot. She remained three 
moons 45 without looking into it. 
When she looked on the fourth 
moon, she found them now large, 
and laughing. She greatly re- 
joiced. 


She conceals the children , and feeds them by night. 


Wa puma e ya 'ulima. Wa 
fika enAle, wa /dala pansi, la ze la 
tshona, e ti, "Umakazi ba nga 
sinda ini abanta bami? loku ngi 
Alekwa abanye abafazi ; ingani 
nabo a ba zali 'bantu, ba zala ama- 
gwababa." Kwa ze kwa ti nta- 
mbama wa buya wa fika ekaya. 
Kwa ti kusiAlwa, lapa e se za 
'ulala, a vale emnyango ngesivalo 
na ngesiMandAla, e ti, kona ku 
ya 'kuti noma umuntu e d/dula 
emnyango a nga boni Tuto. Wa 
Mala. Kwa ti lapa e se bona 
ukuti abantu a ba sa nyakazi 
pakati kwomuzi, w' esuka, wa ba 


She went to dig. When she 
reached the garden, she sat down 
till the sun went down, saying, 
" Can it be that my children can 
live? For I am jeered by the 
other women ; and even they, for- 
sooth, do not give birth to human 
beings ; they give birth to crows." 
In the afternoon she would return 
home. When it was evening, and 
she was about to lie down, she 
shut up the doorway with the 
wicker door, and with a mat, say- 
ing, " Then, although any one pass 
by the door, he will see nothing." 
She waited, and when she saw that 
the people no longer went up and 
down in the village, she took her 


line, "Of Brian's birth strange tales were told."J But the production of a 
"f etcher," as recorded in the Icelandic legends, is still more remarkable. A 
woman steals a dead man's rib, over which she performs certain incantations, 
and lays it on her breast ; three times she goes to Communion, but uses the 
wine to inject into the extremities of the bone ; on the third time the " f etcher 
has acquired his full life and strength." When she can no longer bear him on 
her breast, she makes a wound in her thigh and places him to it, and he draws 
from thence his nourishment for the rest of his existence. The ' ' fetqher " be- 
comes a kind of familiar to his mother, who employs him for the purpose of 
sucking the cows of other people, the milk of which he brings home, and dis- 
gorges into his mother's churn. — To the same class of eccentric thought may be 
referred the origin of the good old Raymond's steed, 

" Which, Aquilino for his swiftness hight," 
was bred by the Tagus. His dam 

" Wlien first on trees bourgeon the blossoms soft, 

Prick'd forward with the sting of fertile kind, 

Against the air casts up her head aloft, 

And gathereth seed so from the fruitful wind ; 

And thus conceiving of the gentle blast, 

(A wonder strange and rare), she foals at last ! 

" And had you seen the beast you would have said 
The light and subtle wind his father was ; 

For if his course upon the sands he made, 

No sign was left what way the beast did pass." 

— Tasso's Jerusalem Recovered. Fairfax. B. vii., lxxv — lxxvii. 

45 That is, three months from the time of putting the clot into the first 
vessel ; one from the time she placed it in the second. 


110 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


tata abantwana, wa ba beka okca- 
nsini, wa tata ubisi, wa ba nika ; 
omunye o umfana wa lu puza, in- 
tombazana ya lw ala. Kwa ti lapa 
e se kade e Alezi nabo, wa buye 
wa ba buyisela endaweni yabo ; 
wa lala. 


children, and placed them on a 
mat, and took milk and gave 
them ; the boy drank it, but the 
little girl refused it. When she 
had remained with them a long 
time, she put them back again into 
their place ; and slept. 


The crows trouble the queen. 


Kwa ti ukukula kwabo, ba kula 
masinyane bobabili ; ba ze ba kasa 
be nga bonwa 'muntu ; ba ze ba 
hamba, unina e ba fi/da kubantu. 
Ba /dala, be nga pumeli pand/de, 
unina 'ala, e ti, uma be pumile ba 
ya pand/de, ba ya 'ubonwa ama- 
gwababa, a ba bulale, ngokuba a e 
m /dupa na send/dini. Ku ti uma 
e vukile kusasa wa ya 'kuka ama- 
nzi, wa hamba wa ya 'ulima, ku ti 
e se buya ntambama a funyanise 
amanzi e se kcitiwe ind/du yonke 
noinlota so u kitshiwe eziko, so ku 
mAlope end/dini. A ti, " Loku ku 
ng' enza ngokuba ngi nga zali na- 
magwababa odwa lawa ; ngokuba 
nami uma ngi ya zala, nga ku nga 
ng' enzi loku 'kwenza ; ngokuba se 
nga /dupeka kangaka, na sendodeni 
eya ngi zekayo i nga sa ng' enzi 
7 muntu ngokuba ngi nga zali." 


As regards their growth, both 
grew very fast ; at length they 
crawled on the ground, not having 
been seen by any one ; at length 
they walked, their mother conceal- 
ing them from the people. They 
remained in the house, not going 
out, their mother not allowing 
them, saying, if they went out 
they would be seen by the crows, 
and they would kill them; for 
they used to vex her in her very 
house. For it was so that when she 
had risen in the morning, and 
fetched water and then went out 
to dig, when she returned in the 
afternoon, she found the water 
spilt over the whole house, and 
the ashes taken out of the fire- 
place, and the whole house white 
with the ashes. She said, " This 
is done to me because I do not 
give birth even to these crows ; for 
if I too gave birth, I should not 
be treated thus ; for I have now 
been afflicted for a long time in 
this way ; and even with my hus- 
band who married me it is the 
same ; he no longer regards me as 
a human being, because I have no 
child." 


The queen gives the girl a name. 


Ba kula ke abantwana bobabili, 
ba ze ba ba bakulu. Ya ti in- 
tombazana ya ze ya ba ik^ikiza ; 
nomfana. wa ba insizwa. Wa ti 


Both grew until they were great 
children; the little girl was at 
length a grown-up maiden, and the 
boy a young man. The mother 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


Ill 


unina, " Loku se ni ngaka noba- 
bili, banta bami, kepa a ni nawo 
amabizo, — " wa ti kowentomba- 
zana, " Wena, igama lako Ukco- 
mbekcantsini." Wa ti umfana, 
" Mina, u nga ngi ti igama, ngo- 
kuba nami igama lobudoda ngi ya 
'u li tiwa ubaba, se ngi kulile ; a 
ngi tandi ukutiwa igama manje." 
Wa vuma ke unina. 


said to them, " Since you are now 
so big, my children, but have no 
name, — ¦" she said to the girl, 
"As for you, your name is Ukco- 
mbekcantsini ." 46 The boy said, 
" For my part, do not give me a 
name ; for I too will receive my 
name of manhood, when I have 
grown up, from my father ; I do 
not wish to have a name now." 
So the mother agreed. 


The hoy and girl go out when their mother is absent, and make some 

acquaintances . 


Kwa ti emini unina e nge ko, 
wa ti owentombazana, " A si ha- 
mbe si ye 'kuka amanzi, loku ama- 
gwababa e wa kcitile amanzi 
kama." Wa ti umfana, " Angiti 
umame wa s' alela ukuba si hanibe 
pandAle na? " Wa ti owentomba- 
zana, " Si za 'ube si bonwa ubani 
na, loku abantu bonke ba yo'ulima 
na ? " Wa vuma ke umfana. Ya 
tata imbiza yamanzi intombazana, 
ya hamba ya ya einfuleni, be 
hamba bobabili. Kepa Iona um- 
fana insimbi yake wa e m/dope ; 
kepa intombazana ya i kazimula 
kakulu. Ba hamba ke, ba fika 
emfuleni, ba ka amanzi. A ti uma 
e se gcwele embizeni, ya ti kowo- 
mfana, "Ngi twese." Wa ti lapa 
e se za *u m twesa, ba bona udwe- 
ndwe lwabantu abaningi b' eza 
emfuleni. Ba fika ba ti, " Si pu- 
zise." Wa wa ka amanzi ngen- 
debe, wa nika o pambili. Kwa 
pinda kwa tsho omunye futi, wa 
ti, " Ngi puzise." Wa wa ka, wa 
m puzisa. Ba tsho bonke, wa ze 
wa ba k^eda e ba puzisa. 


It happened at noon when the 
mother was not there, the girl 
said, " Let us go and fetch water, 
since the crows have spilt the 
water of our mother." The boy 
said, " Did not mother forbid us 
to go outside?" The girl said, 
" By whom shall we be seen, since 
all the people have gone to dig ? " 
The boy agreed. The girl took a 
water-vessel ; she went to the 
river, both going together. But 
as for the boy, his peculiarity was 
that he was white; but the girl 
was very shining. So they went, 
and reached the river, and dipped 
water. When she had filled the 
vessel, she said to the boy, " Put 
it on my head." When he was 
just about to put it on her head, 
they saw a line of many people 
coming to them. When they came 
to the river, they said, " Give us 
to drink." He dipped water with 
a cup, and gave the first. The 
second asked also, saying, " Give 
me to drink." He gave him to 
drink. All asked in like manner, 
until he had given them all to 
drink. 


46 UJccombeJccantsini , The-mat-marker. 


Q 


112 


IZOGANEKWANE. 


They tell their new acquaintances something about themselves , and 
learn something about their acquaintances. 


Ba ti, " N' aba kumu p' unmzi 
na?" Ba ti, " S' aba kulo o nga- 
pezulu." Ba ti, " Ku kona 'muntu 
kona na ? " Ba ti, " Kqa ; a ku 
ko 'muntu." Ba ti, " N' aba kui 
p' indAlu na?" Ba ti, "S' aba 
kule e gcine esangweni." Ba ti, 
" Inkosikazi i i pi na ? " Ba ti, 
" Inkosikazi kwa ku yena uma ; 
kepa kwa ti ngokuba e nga zali ya 
kitshwa indAlu yakwake, ya bekwa 
esangweni." Ba buza ba ti, " Po, 
nina n' aba kusi pi isizwe na?" 
Ba ti, " Tina si vela le, si hamba 
si funa intombi enAle kakulu, ngo- 
kuba ku za 'uzeka inkosi yakwiti." 
Ba ti, " TJ kona i za 'ukgala uku- 
zeka ini na ? " Ba vuma. Ba ti, 
" Ni uAlobo lu ni na?" Ba ti, 
" Tina s' Abahbwebu." Ya ti in- 
tombi, " Nenkosi yakwini Um- 
hhwebu na ? " Ba ti, " K^a ; 
umuntu nje ; i tina sodwa es' A- 
bahhwebu. Nati a si baningi; si 
ibuto linye nje." Ba hamba ke 
Abahhwebu. 


The queen i 

Wa y etwesa ke imbiza yamanzi, 
ba kupuka ba fika ekaya, ba Alala. 
Kwa ti ntambama wa fika unina, 
e vela 'ulima ; wa ti, " Amanzi a 
kiwe ubani na ?" Ba ti, " A kiwe 
i tina." Wa ti, " Angiti ng' ala 
ukuba ni pumele pand/de ? Kepa 
ni tshelwe ubani ukuti, Hamba ni 


They said, " To what village do 
you belong ? " They replied, " To 
that one on the hill." They said, 
" Is there any one at home ? " 
They said, " No ; there is no one." 
They said, " To which house do 
you belong ? " They said, " To 
that which is last near the main 
entrance." They said, " Which is 
the queen ? " They replied, " The 
queen was our own mother ; but 
it happened that, because she had 
no child, her house was removed, 
and placed near the entrance." 
The children enquired of them, 
" And you, to what nation do you 
belong?" They replied, "We 
came from yonder. We are look- 
ing for a very beautiful dam- 
sel ; for the king of our nation is 
going to be married." They said, 
" Is he then about to take his first 
wife ? " They assented. They 

asked, " Of what nation are you ? " 
They said, "We are Abahhwebu." 
The girl said, " And the king of 
your nation, is he an IJmhhwebu?" 
They replied, " No ; he is not of 
the same race as ourselves ; we 
only are Abahhwebu. And we 
are not many ; we are but one 
troop." So the Abahhwebu de- 
parted. 


The boy put the water-vessel on 
her head. They went up the hill 
to their home, and sat down. In 
the afternoon when the mother 
returned from digging, she asked, 
" By whom was this water fetch- 
ed?" They said, " By us." She 
said, " Did I not forbid you to go 
outside? By whom, then, were 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


113 


ni yokuka 'manzi na?" Wa ti 
umfana, " Be ng' ala mina, kepa 
wa ti Ukcombekcantsini, ' A si 
hambe si yokuka 'manzi.'" Wa 
ti unina, " A ni bonwanga 'muntu 
ini na ?" Ba ti, " Si boniwe Aba- 
hhwebu, be udwendwe olukulu. 
Ba ti, * N' abakabani na ? ' Sa ti, 
' S' aba kona kulo 'mnzi.' " Ba 
binda ke. Ba Mala izinsuku ezi- 
ningi. Kodwa kubo ba be ng' a- 
ziwa namunye u muntu ; ba b' a- 
ziwa Abakhwebu bodwa. 


A large company come to the royal 
daughter ii 

Kwa ti ngesikati esinye kwa 
fika izinkomo eziningi ntambama, 
zi hamba nabantu abaningi. Ba 
ti bonke abantu lapo ekaya, " Im- 
pi ; i vela 'ku zi d/da pi lezi 'n- 
komo ezingaka na 1 " Ba bona 
abantu abaningi b' eza ekaya ; ba 
zi shiya ngapandAle kwomuzi ezi- 
nye inkomo, b' eza nezinye ekaya. 
Ba fika, ba zi ngenisa esibayeni ; 
b' enyuka ba ya ngasenAla ; ba 
fika b' ema ; ba kuleka ngokukcela 
intombi kuyise. Kwa tula nje 
bonke abantu ekaya, be tula ngo- 
kumangala, be ti, " XJ kona ini 
umuntu o ng' eza 'kuk^oma ama- 
gwababa na ? Loku a i ko intombi 
e umuntu lapa ekaya." Kepa ba 
kuleka ngokungati ba ya y azi in- 
tombi. Ba ze ba ti abesifazana, 
"Uma ku zo'ukgonywa, i pi in- 
tombi kulezi zetu na 1 U ya 
'ujabula umfazi intombi yake e ya 
'uk^onywa ngalezi 'nkomo eziningi 
kangaka." 


you told to go and fetch water ? ' 
The boy said, " I refused for my 
part, but Ukcombekcantsini said, 

' Let us go and fetch water.' " The 
mother said, " Did no man see 
you? " They replied, "We were 
seen by some Abahhwebu, who 
formed a very long line. They 
asked us whose children we were ; 
we said we belonged to this vil- 
lage." They were then silent. 
They remained for many days. 
But they were unknown to any 
one of their own village ; they 
were known by the Abahhwebu 
only. 

kraal, with cattle, to ask the king's 
\ marriage . 

It came to pass on another 
occasion there came very many 
cattle in the afternoon with very 
many people. All the people of 
the village said, "It is an army ; 
into what place has it made a 
forray, and taken so many cattle 
as these ? " They saw many men 
coming to their village ; they left 
many of the cattle outside ; they 
entered with others into the very 
village. On their arrival they 
drove them into the cattle-pen, and 
went to the upper part, and stood 
there and respectfully asked his 
daughter from the father. All the 
people of the village were silent, 
being silent from wonder, saying, 
" Is there a man who could come 
and select from among crows one 
to be his bride? For there is not 
a girl who is a human being in 
this village." But the men asked 
as though they knew the damsel. 
At length the women said, " If 
you are come to select a bride, 
which is the damsel among all 
these of ours ? That mother will 
be glad whose daughter shall be se- 
lected with so many cattle as these." 


114 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The mothers of the crows jeer the queen. 


Ba puma ke bonke ekaya besi- 
fazana, b' ema pandAle ; abanye ba 
gijima be ya esangweni, be ti, 
" Ye, ye ! u ya dela umfazi o nga 
zalanga uma abakabani laba aba- 
yeui na ?" be tsho ngokubinga Iona 
o nge naye umntwana, ngokuba ba 
be ng' azi ukuba u yena o nen- 
tombi impela ; ngokuba bona ba 
be zala amagwababa nje. A puma 
ngokutukutela amadoda noyise 
wamagwababa, e ba futa abesifa- 
zana, e ti, " Suka ni ; suka ni ! ni 
Alaba 'mikosi ngazi pi intombi zenu 
na, loku ni zele amagwababa nje 
na ? U kona umuntu o nga kcita 
inkomo zake ezingaka e lobola 
igwababa na?" Ba ti, " Tsbetsba 
ni, ni ngene ezindAlini, ni yeke 
lowo 'msindo." 


All the women went out of the 
houses and stood outside; some 
ran to the entrance, saying, "Ye, 
ye ! is the woman who has no 
child satisfied as to whose are these 
bridegroom's men?" saying thus 
for the purpose of jeering the 
childless one, for they did not 
know that it was she who really 
had a girl; for they had given 
birth to crows only. The men 
went out in anger together with 
the father of the crows, he being 
in a rage with the women, and 
saying, " Away with you ; away 
with you ! For which girls of 
yours do you make this huzzahing ? 
since you have given birth only to 
crows. Who would cast away so 
many cattle as these for a crow's 
dowry ? " The men said, " Make 
haste into your houses, and cease 
this noise." 


The king tells them he has no daughter ; but they persist in asking his 
daughter in marriage. 


Wa ya kubayeni umnikazimuzi, 
e ti, " Mina a ngi nantombi. Nga 
zala amagwababa odwa nje. Tata 
ni inkomo zenu, ni goduke, ni ye 
kwini." Ba ti, " Si ya ku ncenga, 
si ti, musa uku s' ala ; ngokuba si 
f azi ukuba i kona intombi lapa 
ekaya, e umuntu." W' efunga 
nokufunga umnikazimuzi, e ti, "A 
i ko intombi lapa ekaya." Ba ze 
ba bhekana abayeni, be funa, be 
funa ukubuza kulabo Abahhwebu 
bona ba be zile kukgala ; ba ti, 
" Imbala na i bona intombi lapa 


The owner of the village went 
to the bridegroom's men, and said, 
"As for me, I have no girl. I am 
the father of mere crows, and of 
nothing else. Take your cattle, 
and go home with them to your 
people." They replied, "We be- 
seech thee not to refuse us ; for we 
know that there is a damsel at this 
place which is a human being." 
The head of the village swore 
solemnly that there was no damsel 
at his home. At length the bride- 
groom's people looked at each 
other, being desirous of enquiring 
of the Abahhwebu who had come 
there at first; they asked them, 
" Did you in truth see a damsel at 


UKCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


115 


ekaya na ? " Ba ti Abahhwebu, 
" Sa i bona lapa ekaya : si nga i 
komba ind/du e ya ngena kuyona." 
Ba ti, "I i pi na 1 ?" Ba ti, "I 
leya e landela e sekugcineni." Ba 
ti, " Tina, munumuzana, si ya 
y azi impela intombi yako ; si nga 
i komba nend/du e kuyona." Wa 
ti umnikazimuzi, e tsho ngokutu- 
kutela, wa ti, " Imbala laba 'bantu 
ba /dakanipile nje na ! Loku ngi 
ya ni tshela mina 'yisewabantwana, 
ngi ti, a i ko intombi e umuntu 
lapa ekaya. Kepa ni ngi pikela 
inkani ngokuba ni ze 'ku ngi Aleka 
ngokuba ngi nga zalanga 'muntu. 
Leya ind/du e ni i kombayo, um- 
nikaziyo a ka zalanga negwababa 
lodwa leli." 


this place 1 " The Abahhwebu 
replied, "We did see one at this 
place : we can point out the house 
into which she entered." They en- 
quired which it was. They said, "It 
is that which is the last but one." 
They said, " O chief of this village, 
we are indeed acquainted with 
your daughter ; we can even point 
out the house in which she is." 
The chief of the village replied, 
speaking in anger, " Are these 
men then truly so very wise 1 For 
I the father of the children tell 
you, there is not a girl in this 
place that is a human being. But 
you dispute the matter with me, 
because you have come to laugh at 
me, because I am not a father of 
human beings. That house to 
which you point, the occupier of it 
has not given birth to so much as 
I a crow." 


The queen salutes the strangers. 


Wa ti owesifazana waleyo 'n- 
d/du ngokuzwa izwi lendoda li 
tsho njalo, wa puma end/dini e ti, 
" Nampa abayeni bakadade ! Nge- 
na ni end/dini, ni /datshiswe, ba- 
kwenyana bami. Ngokuba mina 
noma ngi nga zalanga, kepa nina 
ni ngi bonile uma nga zala." 


The woman of that house, when 
she heard her husband saying thus, 
left her house, saying, " Behold 
the bridegroom's people of our 
princess ! 47 Come into the house, 
and have cattle killed for you, my 
son-in-laws. For though I have 
had no child, yet you have seen 
that I have a child." 


She presents her children to the king. 


Y' esuka indoda yake, ya ya 
kona end/dini ; ya fika, ya ti, 
" Loku ngi be ngi ti wena a u nam- 
ntwana. Kepa uma u pume u 
/dabe umkosi, u naye ini umntwa- 
nana?" Wa ti, " Loku ngi nga 
zali umntwana, ngi m tate pi na ?" 


Her husband went to the house 
and said, " I thought you had no 
child ; but, since you have come 
out and shouted, have you a 
child 1 " She replied, " Since I do 
not have children, where could I 
get a child?" He said, "I ask 


47 Dade is equivalent to Nkosazana, "Princess." But Dade wetu would 
mean " Our sister." The bride calls the Imbulu by this name, Dade , " Prin- 
cess," as a mark of deference. 


116 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Wa ti, " Ngi ya buza, mntanami, 
ngi tshele uma umkosi u u Alabele 
ku pi na ? " Wa ti, " Ng' u Ala- 
bele abautwana bami oku nge si 
bo abendoda, abami nje." Ya ti 
indoda, " Ba pi na?" Wa ti, 

" Puma ni, a ni bone." Ba puma 
umfana nentombazana. Wa ti 

ngoku ba bona kwake uyise, wa 
wela pezu kwomfana, wa m bamba 
e kala, e ti, " Hau ! hau ! Kanti 
abafazi ba nesibindi esingaka na ? 
Ku ngani ukuba u fiAle abantwana 
ba ze ba be ngaka, be ng' aziwa 
'muntu na?" Wati, " Wa ba tata 
pi laba 'bantwana na?" Wa ti, 
" Nga ba nikwa amavukutu, a ngi 
gcaba esin^eni. Kwa puma iAlule, 
la telwa esitsheni, kwa ze kwa ba 
abantu, ngi b' ondAla ; nga ngi nga 
tandi uku ni tshela, ngokuba ama- 
gwababa a e nga ba bulala." 


thee, my child, tell me for what 
have you shouted ? " She replied, 
" I have shouted for my children, 
who are not the children of a man, 
but mine only." Her husband 
said, " Where are they ? " She 
said, " Come out, that he may see 
you." The boy and girl came out. 
When the father saw them, he fell 
on the boy, and embraced him, 
crying and saying, " Hau ! hau ! 
Have women indeed so great 
courage ? How is it that you have 
hidden the children till they are 
so big as this, they being unknown 
to any one?" He said, "Where 
did you get these children ? " She 
replied, " The pigeons gave them 
to me. They scarified me on the 
loins ; there came out a clot ; it 
was placed in a vessel ; at length 
it became human beings ; I nour- 
ished them ; I did not like to tell 
you, for the crows might have 
killed them." 


They order an ox to be slaughtered for the strangers. 


Wa vuma ke uyise, wa ti, " Ba 
za 'uAlatshiswa 'nkomo ni na, loku 
izimbuzi ba ng' eze ba Alatshiswa 
yona ; ku fanele ukuba ba Alabe 
itole lenkabi." Wa vuma ke 
unina. Wa ya wa puma endAlini, 
wa fika kubayeni e se Aleka, e 
jabula, e ti, "Puma ni, ngi ni 
kombise inkomo yenu." Wa puma 
umyeni, wa ba munye-; wa m 
kombisa itole lenkabi. La Ala- 
tshwa, la dAliwa. 


The father agreed and said, 
" Which bullock shall be slaugh- 
tered for them? For as for the 
goats, they must not have a mere 
goat killed ; it is proper that they 
kill a young ox." So the mother 
agreed. She went out of the 
house, and came to the bridegroom, 
now laughing and happy, and say- 
ing, " Come out, that I may point 
out to you your bullock." The 
bridegroom went out alone; she 
pointed out to him the young ox. 
It was killed and eaten. 


The bridegroom is accepted. 

Kwa ti ngangomso wa ti uyise, I On the morrow the father said, 
"Ku fanele ukuba a Alatshiswe " It is proper that the girl too 
umntwana naye kanye nenkomo e | have a bullock killed for her toge- 


URCOMBEKCANTSINI. 


117 


za 'ukela abayeni bake." Wa 
vuma ke unina. Ya Alatshwa in- 
komo. Wa puma uyise, wa ti, 
" Ku fanele ukuba i kgedwe yonke 
imikuba yalo 'mntwana, ngokuba 
ngi ya tanda ukuba abayeni bake 
b' emuke naye umAlana b' emu- 
kayo, ngokuba amagwababa a nga 
m bulala." Kw' enziwa yonke 
imikuba yake neyoku/datshiswa 
izimbuzi, ngokuba umAlana e 
tombayo a ka Alatshiswanga, ngo- 
kuba wa e ng' aziwa 'muntu. Wa 
kela abayeni, kwa Alatshwa in- 
komo, kwa d/diwa inyama. 


tber with that with which she is 
about to dance 48 before her bride- 
groom's people." So the mother 
agreed. The father arose and said, 
" It is proper that all the customs 
of this child be fully carried out, 
for it is my wish that her bride- 
groom's party take her with them 
on the day of their departure, for 
the crows may kill her." So all 
her customs were completed by 
having goats killed for her, for 
when she came to puberty she had 
nothing killed for her, because no 
one knew of her. She danced for 
the bridegroom's party ; the cattle 
were killed, and the flesh eaten. 


The king advises them to set out on the morrow. 


Wa ti uyise, " Esinye isito a no 
si beka, banta bami, ni ze ni 
hambe ni d/da end/deleni nomfazi 
wenu." Ba ti abayeni, " Yebo, 
baba ; nati se si tanda ukuhamba 
kusasa." Ba vumelana kaAle. 


The father said, " Do you set 
aside a leg, my children, that you 
and your wife may have food on 
your journey." They replied, 
"Yes, father ; and we are desirous 
of going in the morning." They 
were entirely of one heart. 


The queen forewarns them. 


Wa ti unina kubayeni, "Uma 
se ni hambile, no bona inyamazane 
elu/daza end/deleni ; i ya 'uvela 
enkangala ; ni nga i kccotshi ; a no 
i yeka nje, kona ku ya 'ulunga 
ukwenda komntanami." 


The mother said to the bride- 
groom's party, " When you have 
set out on your journey, you will 
see a green animal in the path ; it 
will make its appearance on the 
high land ; do not pursue it, just 
leave it alone ; then the marriage 
of my child will be fortunate ." 49 


43 This ceremony is for the purpose of openly acknowledging the bridegroom 
by the bride. A mat is placed on the ground in the middle of the cattle-pen ; 
the bridegroom and his party sit at the upper end of the enclosure ; the bride 
and her maids pass, dancing, from the entrance to where they are sitting ; one 
then takes the bridegroom by the hand, and leads him down to the mat, and 
leaves him standing on it. The mat is not afterwards touched by the bride's 
party, because the bridegroom's feet have stood on it ; it is h lonipa'd, that is, 
respected by them ; but it is taken away by someone belonging to him. 

49 Jnsimango, a large kind of baboon, is possibly here meant. It is said to 
be green ; its skin is valuable, being used only for the ornaments of chiefs and 
great men. Its colour is grey with a greenish tint. 


118 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The bridal 'party sets out together ; but are separated in the way . 


Kwa sa ke kusasa ba hamba. 
Kepa umyeni nomakoti wake ba 
be ketehve izinkabi ezimbili ezin- 
kulu, be kwele pezu kwazo boba- 
bili, amabuto e hamba pambili 
onke, kepa bona be hamba emuva 
bodwa nezintombi eziningi eza zi 
menyiwe esizweni sikayise, zi 
hamba nabo emuva. Ba ze ba fika 
enkangala ; ba i bona ke leyo 'n- 
yamazane unina a ba yala ngayo, 
wa ti, a ba ze ba nga i bulali. 
Amabuto a gijima onke, a i ksco- 
tsha inyamazane. Wa ti umakoti, 
" B' alele, ba nga i kccotshi inya- 
mazane. Angiti uma u ni tshelile, 
wa ti, ' Ni nga i kxotshi inyama- 
zane ' na 1 " Wa ti, " O, u ti ku 
za 'uba nani, wena, na ? A ba i 
kicotshe nje ; a i nakcala." B' e- 
ma isikati eside lapo umakoti 
nomyeni nezintombi zakubo kama- 
koti. Wa ze wa ti umyeni, " O, 
se si katele ukuma elangeni ; ake 
ngi hambe masinyane, ngi yoku ba 
buyisa, si hambe. So ku semini." 
Wa hamba ke. 


An Imbulu accosts the 

Ba sale, ba Alala isikati eside, be 
nga m boni umyeni ; wa ze wa ti 
umakoti kwezinye intombi, "Se 
ngi katele ukuma, se ng* omile na 
amanzi." Kwa ti e sa kuluma 
loko, kwa fika kubona Imbulu, ya 
ti, " Sa ni bona, makosazana ama- 
Ale." Ba vuma. Ya ti Imbulu, 


On the following morning they 
set out. But two large oxen were 
selected for the bridegroom and his 
bride, and they were placed upon 
them, their soldiers going before 
them, and they following alone 
with many damsels which had 
been summoned from her father's 
tribe. At length they reached the 
high land ; and then they saw that 
animal respecting which the mo- 
ther had warned them, telling 
them not to kill it. All the sol- 
diers ran and pursued the animal. 
The bride said, " Forbid them to 
pursue the animal. Did not my 
mother tell you not to pursue it V 
The bridegroom answered, "0, of 
what consequence do you say it 
will be ? Just let them pursue it ; 
it is no matter." The bride and 
bridegroom, and the bride's dam- 
sels, remained there a long time. 
At length the bridegroom said, 
"O, we are now tired with standing 
here in the sun. Let me go at 
once and bring back the men, that 
we may go on our way. It is now 
noon." So he departed. 

bride , and deceives her. 

After that they remained a long 
time, without seeing the bride- 
groom ; at length the bride said to 
the other damsels, "I am now 
tired with waiting ; and I am 
longing for water." As she was 
speaking these words, an Imbulu 50 
came to them, and said, " Good 
day, beautiful princesses." They 
acknowledged the salutation. The 


50 The Imbulu is a large land lizard, living mostly in forests. It is a stupid 
harmless animal. The natives say it is very fond of milk, and that it sucks the 
cows when they are in the open country. It is not uncommon for boys who 
have robbed their fathers of the milk of the cows whilst herding them, to lay 
the blame on the Imbulu. 


UKCOMBEKCANSINI. 


119 


" Ake w e/dike, ngi bone uma si 
nga ngi fanela ini isikaka sako 
na?" Wa ti, "A ngi tandi 
ukweAlika." Ya ti Imbulu, "Hau ! 
Ake w e Alike ; u zo'ubuye u kwe- 
lele." Wa ze w* eAlika umakoti. 
Ya tata isikaka, ya binca Imbulu, 
ya ti, " Kwa ngi fanafanela ! " Ya 
ti, " A u lete nolembu lwako lolo, 
ke ngi bone uma nalo lu nga ngi 
fanela ini na? " W* ala, wa ti, 
"Ngi ya 1* esaba ilanga mina, 
dade." Ya ti, " Ngi tsheleke, ngi 
za 'u ku nika masinyane." Wa i 
nika. Ya lu faka ulembu, ya ti, 
"Ake ngi kwele enkabini yako 
lapa, ngi bone uma nami ku nga 
ngi fanela ini nal" Wa ti, 
" Kwela, u buye w e Alike ma- 
sinyane." Ya kwela ke Imbulu, 
ya ti, " Ncinci ! Kwa ngi fana- 
fanela ! " Wa ti, " Sa w e/dika 
ke." Ya ti, " A ngi tandi ; a ngi 
ze ng' eAlika." Wa ti, " Ye Alika, 
ngi kwele." Ya ti Imbulu, " U 
ke wa vumelane ukuba ngi kwele ; 
a ngi sa yi 'kweAlika mina." 


Imbulu said, " Just come down, 
that I may see if your dress is 
suitable for me." She replied, " I 
do not wish to come down." The 
Imbulu said, " Hau ! Just come 
down ; you will get up again at 
once." At length the bride de- 
scended. The Imbulu took her 
dress, and girded it on, and said, 
" O ! how well it fits me ! " The 
Imbulu said, " Bring me your 
veil, 51 that I may see if it too 
would become me." The bride 
refused, saying, "lam afraid of the 
sun, princess." The Imbulu said, 
" Lend it to me ; I will return it 
to you immediately." She gave 
her the veil. The Imbulu put on 
the veil, and said, "Just let me 
get on your ox, that I may see 
if that too would become me." 
She said, " Get up, but come down 
again immediately." So the Im- 
bulu mounted, and said, " Ncinci ! 
How admirably it suits me ! " 
She said, " Come down now then." 
The Imbulu said, "I do not wish 
to come down ; I shall never come 
down." The bride said, " Get 
down, that I may mount." The 
Imbulu replied, "You gave me 
permission to get up ; I shall 
never come down again, for my 
part." 


The bride and her maids are turned into birds. 


7' esuka ke izintombi zonke 
kanye nomakoti ; za guk^uka in- 
taka. Wa ti umakoti yena wa ba 
uluve. Ba ya eAlatini, ba Alala 
kona, se be inyoni. 


Then the bridesmaids and the 
bride departed ; they turned into 
finches, and the bride turned into 
an uluve. 52 They went to the 
forest, and remained there, being 
now birds. 


51 Ulembu . — The veil is now no longer used among the natives ; it is known 
only in nursery tales. It is said to have been an ancient custom for the bride 
to veil her face. She now partially conceals it with a prepared skin. 

52 Uluve , a bird, a kind of finch. 


R, 




120 


1ZINGANEKWANE. 


The bridegroom is uneasy . 


Ba fika abayeni nesikumba sen- 
yamazane, se be i /dinzile. Ba 
hamba pambili. Ba ti be se kude 
nentombi, wa ti umyeni, " Hau ! 
hau ! BandAla ! ni ya bona uraa- 
koti u se njani nje na, ukuba a be 
mncane kangaka, a fipale? w e- 
nziwa ini na ? nentombi zi pi na V 
Ba ti, " O, nkosi, kumbe intombi 
zi diniwe uku/dala elangeni, za ze 
za buyela ekaya kubo ; si ya bona 
o kw enze umakoti ilanga, ngo- 
kuba u be nga Mali elangeni." 
Wa ti, " Noma ku njalo, nga ku 
bonakala okwelanga ; umzimba 
wami se u jambile, kungati a ku 
se yena umakoti wami lo." Ba 
fika pambi kwake, ba ti, " Zi pi 
intombi na 1 ?" Wa kuluma uma- 
koti ngokungati ulimi lwake lu 
botshiwe, e tshwatshwaza, e ti, 
" Zi buyile za ya ekaya." 


The bridegroom's men arrived 
with the skin of the animal which 
they had skinned. They went 
in front. When they v r ere still 
at a distance from the damsels,, 
the bridegroom said, " Hau ! 
hau ! • My men ! do you see 
the bride, how small she is be* 
come, and that she no longer 
shines ? what has happened to 
her ? and where are the brides- 
maids ? " They replied, " O, sir, 
perhaps the girls were tired with 
sitting in the sun, until they went 
back to their own homes ; we see 
what the sun has done to the bride, 
for she was not accustomed to sit 
in the sun." He replied, " And if 
it is so, that which is done by the 
sun would be evident. My body 
is weak ; 53 it seems to me that 
this is not my bride." They came 
in front of her, and said, " Where 
are the damsels ? " The bride an- 
swered as though her tongue was 
tied, speaking rapidly and thickly, 
saying, " They have gone home ." 54 


5:5 If a man feels his body weak and languid without being able to account 
for it, he considers it an omen of approaching evil. When the Troll had put 
her own daughter in the place of the young queen, the queen's "little dog, 
Locke, was never cheerful afterwards ; the little infant wept uninterruptedly, 
and a weight lay on the Icing's mind" ( Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories. " The Prin- 
cess that came out of the water," p. Ql.) 

54 Roland leaves his bride to go home to prepare the marriage festival, but 
falls into the toils of new enchantments, and forgets his betrothed and his faith. 
When his marriage with another is about to be celebrated she joins the bridal 
party, and when it comes to her turn to sing, her voice is recognised by Roland. 
Between the time of being forsaken and again recognised, like Ukcombekcansini 
and her damsels, she occupies herself in secretly doing all the work in a shep- 
herd's cottage, who had plucked her in the form of a flower into which she had 
transformed herself, and taken her to his home. She assumed the human form 
during the absence of the shepherd. ( Grimm. " Roland and his Bride," p. 
222.) One of the fisherman's " golden children," through pursuing a fine stag, 
is led into enchantments, by which he is lost to his bride, till released by his 
brother. (Id. " The Golden Children," p. 326. ) The king's son leaves the 
giant's daughter, who had helped him to perform the laborious tasks imposed on 
him by her father, and finally to escape from him ; and through allowing him- 
self to be kissed by a dog, loses all recollection of her, till reminded of her, 
when he was about to be married to another, by a conversation between two 
pigeons. (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. /., p. 251.) See also several such tales 
in Thorpe's Yule-tide Storks , pp. 202, 216, 447. 


UKCOMBEKCANSINI. 


121 


The birds jeer Ukakaka. 


Ba hamba ke, amabuto e hamba 
pambili ; naye umyeni wa hamba 
pambili namabuto ake; wa sala 
emuva umakoti, e hamba nenkabi 
yedwa. Kwa ti uma se be kude 
naleyo 'ndawo, ba bona inyoni ezi- 
ningi zi hi ala ngapambili kwabo, 
esikgungweni, zi ti, " Ukakaka 
wenkosi wa hamba nesilwane ! " 
Za ti, " Yiya, u gada nembulu ! " 
"VVa ti, " Hau ! band/da ! ni y' e- 
zwa oku kulunywa i lezi 'nyoni ; 
zi ti ni na 1 Na ke 11a zi zwa in- 
yoni zi kuluma na ? " Ba ti, " O, 
nkosi, ukuma kwazo inyoni ze/da- 
nze ; zi ya kuluma." Wa binda 
ke. Ba liamba. 


Kwa ti ngapambili futi za ya 
ngapambili kwabo, za ti, " Uka- 
kaka, Ukakaka wenkosi wa hamba 
nesilo ! Yiya, u gada nembulu ! " 
Kepa loko Ukakaka kwa ku m 
/dupa kakulu en/diziyweni yake. 
Kwa ti lapa se be ya ngasekaya, za 
buyela emuva izinyoni, za /dala 
eAlatini ; ba ngena ekaya, be ha- 
mba pambili bonke, umakoti be m 
shiya yedwa emuva. 


So they went forward, the sol- 
diers going in front, and the bride- 
groom himself went in front with 
his soldiers ; the bride 55 remained 
behind, going alone with the ox. 
When they were at some distance 
from that place, they saw many 
birds pitched on the grass in front 
of them, saying, " Ukakaka the 
king's child gone off with an ani- 
mal ! " They said, " Out upon 
him, he is running off with an 
Imbulu ! " He said, " Hau ! my 
men ! You hear what these birds 
say : what do they say ? Did you 
ever hear birds speak?" They 
said, " O, sir, the manner of birds 
of the thorn country ; they 
speak ." 56 So he was silent. They 
went forward. 

In front also the birds went 
before them, and said, " Ukakaka, 
Ukakaka, the king's child gone off 
with an animal ! Out upon him, 
he runs off with an Imbulu." But 
that troubled the heart of Uka- 
kaka very much. When they 
were near home, the birds turned 
back and remained in the forest. 
They entered their home, all the 
men going in front, leaving the 
bride alone behind them. 


The king is dissatisfied with the bride. 


Esibayeni kwa ku kona amadoda 
amaningi e /ilezi nenkosi, uyise ka- 
kakaka. Wa ngena umakoti e 


In the cattle-pen there were 
many men sitting with the king, 
Ukakaka's father. The bride en- 


55 That is, the Imbulu, the false bride. 

56 In one of the versions of "The Little Gold Shoe," a bird exposes the de- 
ceit which they are practising on the prince, by crying 

" Chop heel and clip toe ! 

In the oven is she whom fits the gold shoe." 

"What was that?" inquired the prince, wondering. "Oh," answered the 
queen, " it was nothing ; it was only the song of a bird." ( Thorpe's Yule-tide 
Stories, p. 125.) See Appendix at the end of this tale. 


122 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


hamba yedwa ; w' enyuka wa ya 
ngasen/da. Ba ti abantu bonke 
aba sesibayeni, " Ini yona le e fika 
nomntwana wenkosi na?" Ya 
tsho inkosi ngokutukutela i m biza 
i ti, "Mina lapa, wena mfana." 
Wa ya Ukakaka ngokwesaba, 
ngokuba wa e bona ukuba uyise u 
tukutele kakulu. Wa fika, wa ti, 
"Ini lena o fika nayo 11a? In- 
tombi a ba ti Abahhwebu inUe i 
yona lena na?" Wa ti, " Tshe- 
tsha u ba bize bonke, b' eze lapa 
kumina ; Ababbwebu ba za 'ubu- 
lawa bonke, loku be kgamba ama- 
nga, ba ti ba i bonile intombi 
enMe." Wa ti Ukakaka, " Kga, 
nkosi baba, nami nga i bona in- 
tombi ; ya in/de kaknlu ; Aba- 
bbwebu ba be kginisile, ngokuba 
nami nga i bona, uma in/de ka- 
kulu." Wa ti uyise, " Kepa se i 
nani po na ?" Wa ti, " A ng' azi. 
Kwa ku tiwe ekaya kubo, a si ze 
si nga i bulali inyamazane. Kepa 
tina sa i bulala ; si te se si fika si 
vela 'ubulala inyamazane, sa fika 
intombi se i nje. Zi nga se ko 
zakubo intombi. Si ya bamba, 
nami ngi ya bona ukuba a ku se 
yona intombi e ngi pume nayo 
ekaya." 


Ukakaka is c 

Wa bincla ke uyise. Ba Mala 
kwa ba izinsukwana. Kepa Uka- 
kaka wa e nga vumi ukuba ku 
tiwe umakoti wake, e ti, ka ka 
zeki. U kona e ya 'uzeka intombi 
enMe. Kepa abantu bonke be 
mangala ngaleyo 'ntombi, be ti, 
" Kungati a ku si 'muntu lo." 


tered, going alone ; she went up to 
the upper part of the enclosure. 
All the men who were in the en- 
closure said, " What is that which 
has come with the prince ? " The 
king spoke in anger, calling his 
son, saying, " Come here, you boy." 
Ukakaka went in fear, because he 
saw that his father was very 
angry. On coming to him he said, 
" What is that with which you 
have come ? Is that thing the 
damsel which the Abahhwebu said 
was beautiful ?" He said, " Make 
haste, and call them all to come 
here to me; all the Abahhwebu 
shall be killed ; for they have lied 
in saying they had seen a beautiful 
damsel." Ukakaka said, " No, 
king, my father; I too saw the 
damsel ; she was very beautiful ; 
the Abahhwebu spoke the truth, 
for I too saw her, when she was 
very beautiful." The father re- 
plied, " What then is the matter 
with her now ? " He said, " I do 
not know. We were told at her 
home on no account to kill a cer- 
tain animal. But we killed it, and 
when we returned from killing it, 
on our arrival the damsel was as 
she is. And the damsels of her 
people were no longer there. As 
we went along I too saw that it is 
not the damsel with whom I left 
her home." 

so dissatisfied. 

So the father was silent. They 
tarried a few days. But Ukakaka 
would not allow her to be called 
his wife, saying, he had not a wife 
yet. The time would come when 
he should marry a beautiful girl. 
And all the people wondered at 
the girl, and said she was not like 
a human being. 


UKCOMBEKCANSINI. 


123 


The bride and her maids assume their own forms , and visit the bride- 
groom's kraal. 


Kepa kwa ku kona isalukazi 
ekaya kulowo 'muzi, sa si ngenazo 
izito, sa si nemikono yodwa, si 
/Jala nje ekaya, igama laso kwa 
ku tiwa UAlese; ku tshiwo ngo- 
kuba ukuhamba kwaso sa si gi- 
ngcika ngomzimba nje. Ku mu- 
kwe ku yiwe ekulimeni, zi sale zi 
fike izintombi se zi gukgukile 
abantu, zi fike ekaya, zi ye kuyena 
UAlese, zi ti, " Konje u ya 'kutsho 
u ti, u ke wa bona izintombi lapa 
ekaya na?" A ti UAlese, " O, 
kgu, banta bami, ngi ya 'kuti ngi 
be ngi ba bona pi abantu lapa na, 
loku ngi UAlese nje na % " Za 
puma ; za tata izimbiza zonke zo- 
muzi zo/ilangoti lwawo umuzi, za 
ye za ka amanzi. Za fika nawo, 
za k^azula utshwala umuzi wonke, 
za kelela amanzi, za fudumezela 
amanzi ; za ka amanzi, za sinda 
ezind/dini zomuzi wonke ; za lia- 
mba za ye za teza za beka izinkuni 
umuzi wonke. Za ya ku/dese, za 


But there was an old woman 
who lived at that village ; she had 
no legs, but only arms ; she re- 
mained at home doing nothing; 
her name was Uthlese ; 57 she was 
so called because in walking she 
rolled along with her body only. 
The people had gone to dig ; when 
they were gone, the damsels again 
turned into human beings, 58 and 
came to that place ; they went to 
Uthlese, and said, "Will you then 
say that you have seen any girls 
here at home 1 " Uthlese replied, 
"0, no, my children. I will say, 
how could I see people here since 
I am but Uthlese 1 " They went 
out, and took all the vessels from 
one side of the village, and went 
to fetch water. They came with 
the water : they crushed mea- 
lies for making beer for the 
whole village ; they fetched water 
again and again, and boiled it 
for the beer ; they fetched water, 
and smeared 59 the floors of 
the houses of the whole village ; 
they went and fetched firewood, 
and placed it in the whole kraal. 
They went to Uthlese, and said, 


57 Uhlese. — Ukuti hfe.se, to shuffle along in walking. Uhlese, Shuffler. 

58 Twelve brothers were changed into twelve ravens because their sister 
plucked the white lilies, in which her brothers' destiny was in someway wrapped 
up. (Grimm. " The Twelve Brothers," p. 44.) In the tale of the Hoodie, 
the bridegroom is a man by day and a hoodie by night. ( Campbell. Op. cit. 
Vol. /., p. 63.,) The six princes who were changed into swans by their step- 
mother's enchantments, resumed their human form for a quarter of an hour 
every evening. (Grimm. "The Six Swans," p. 190.,) In Hans Christian 
Andersen's beautiful tale of the Wild Swans, the princes were swans as long as 
the sun was above the horizon, and resumed their human form from sunset to 
sunrise. In the tale of "The Beautiful Palace," we read of " three fair dam- 
sels " who could put off and resume the plumage of doves at pleasure. ( Thorpe. 
Yule-tide Stories, p. 159. ) And the white bear threw off his beast shape at 
night. (Dasent. Popular Tales from the Norse, p. 27.) In Snend's Exploits 
we read of a Troll who "in the daytime transformed himself into a dragon, and 
his twelve sons flew about as crows ; but every night they became men again. " 
(Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p. 340 . ) 

59 The natives smear the floors of their houses with cow-dung or goat- 
dung, to keep them free from insects and dust. 


124 


IZIXGANEKWANE. 


ti, " Hlese, u ya 'kuti kw enziwe 
ubani konke loku na?" \Ya ti, 
" Ngi ya 'kuti, kw enziwe u mina." 
Za liamba ke, za ya end Ale ; za 
tike za penduka inyoni futi. 

The women wonder at the w 

Kwa ti ntambama ba fika aba- 
ntu, ba ti bonke ekaya besifazana, 
" Hail ! be ku sinda 'bani ekaya 
lapa na ? no ke amanzi ? no teze 
izinkuni na ? no kyazulile utshwa- 
la ? wa fudumezela na 1 ?" Ba ya 
bonke kuAlese, be buza, be ti, 
" Kw enziwe ubani loku na ? " 
Wa ti, "U mina. Ngi te, nga 
Alese, nga Alese, nga ye nga ka 
amanzi ; nga Alese, nga Alese, nga 
ye, nga teza ; nga Alese, nga Alese, 
nga ye, nga k^azula ; nga Alese, 
nga Alese, nga fudumezela." Ba 
ti, " Hau ! kw enziwe u we konke 
loku, Alese, na?" Wa ti, " Ehe." 
Ba 7deka, be jabula, be ti, "Wa 
si siza Uthlese ukwenzela utshwala 
umuzi wonke." Ba lala. 


The bride and her ma 

Kwa sa kusasa, b' emuka ba ya 
'ulima. Za fika izintombi zonke, 
zi twele izinkuni. Wa ti UAlese, 
"Ye, ye, ye ! nampa omalokazana 
bakababa. KuAle umtimba u 
ngena ekaya." Ba zi beka izinkuni 
umuzi wonke ; ba gaya, be bukeza 
utshwala ; ba peka umuzi wonke ; 
ba ye ba ka amanzi ; ba gaya imi- 


" Utlilese, who will you say has 
done all this ? " She said, " I will 
say I did it." They went to the 
open country, and on their arrival 
again became birds. 

wk done by unknown hands. 

In the afternoon when the peo- 
ple returned, all the women of the 
village said, " Hau ! Who has 
been smearing the floors here at 
home ? And who has fetched 
water ? and firewood ? and crushed 
mealies for beer ? and heated the 
water?" All went to Uthlese, 
and asked her by whom it was 
done. She said, " It was done by 
me. I shuffled and shuffled along, 
and went and fetched water; I 
shuffled and shuffled along, and 
went and fetched firewood ; I 
shuffled and shuffled along, and 
crushed the mealies ; I shuffled and 
shuffled along, and heated the 
water." They said, " Hau ! was 
all this done by you, Uthlese?" 
She said, u Yes." They laughed 
and were glad, saying, " Uthlese 
has helped us by making beer for 
the whole village." They retired 
to rest. 

ds pay a second visit , 

On the following morning they 
went to dig. All the damsels 
came, carrying firewood. Uthlese 
said, "Ye, ye, ye! behold the 
daughters-in-law of my father. It 
is well that the wedding party 
should come home." They placed 
firewood for the whole kraal ; they 
ground the mealies which they 
crushed the day before for the 
beer; they made beer in every 
house in the kraal ; they fetched 
water; they ground malt, being 


UKCOMBEKCAKSINT. 


125 


tombo, b' eza 'kwenza umlumiso ; 
ba vubela. Ba ya kuAlese, ba ti, 
" Sala kaAle, salukazi setu." Wa 
ti, " Yebo, mtimba kanomama." 
Ba hamba ke. Kwa ti ntambama 
ba fika abesifazana bonke ekaya, 
ba buye ba ya kuAlese, be ti, " Ku 
bukeze 'bani na? kwa peka 'bani 
na?" Wa ti U Alese, "Ngi te, 
liga Alese, uga Alese, nga ye nga 
teza; nga Alese, nga Alese, nga 
gaya ; nga Alese, nga peka ; nga 
Alese, nga ya 'kuka amanzi ; nga 
Alese, nga Alese, nga gaya imi- 
tombo ; nga Alese, nga vubela ; 
nga Alese, nga ti ng' eza lapa 
endAlini, nga Alala." Ba Aleka be 
ti, " Manje si zuze isalukazi soku 
si sebenzela." Ba /Jala ; ba lala. 


about to make umlumiso ; 60 they 
mixed the malt with the mealie- 
mash. They went to Uthlese, and 
said, " Good bye, our grand- 
mother." She replied, " Yes, bridal 
party of my mother's mother." 
So they departed. In the afternoon 
all the women came home, and 
again went to Uthlese, and said, 
" Who has ground the mash % who 
has cooked h " Uthlese said, " I 
shuffled and shuffled, and went 
and fetched wood ; I shuffled and 
shuffled, and ground the mash ; I 
shuffled, and boiled water ; I shuf- 
fled, and fetched water ; I shuffled 
and shuffled, and ground malt ; I 
shuffled, and mixed it with the 
mealie-mash ; I shuffled, and came 
back here to the house, and sat 
down." They laughed, saying, 
"Now we have got an old woman 
who will work for us." They sat 
down ; they retired to rest. 


They pay a third visit. 


Kwa sa kusasa za fika izintombi, 
be nga se ko abantu bonke ; kepa 
UAlese wa e Alezi pandAle. Za ya 
kuyena, za ti, "17 mu Ale wena, 
Alese, ngokuba u nga tsheli 'mu- 
ntu." Za ngena ezindAlini, za gaya 
imitombo, za vubela isijingi, za 
vova utsliwala e be zi bu lumisile 
izolo, za tela amalihabulo esiji- 
ngini e be zi si vubela, z' enzela 
ukuze bu tshetshe ukubila. Za 
butela ezingcazini lobo e be zi bu 
vova ; za tata enye in'gcazi, za ya 
nabo kuAlese obu ngengcazi. Za 


On the following day the dam- 
sels arrived, when no one was 
there; but Uthlese was sitting 
outside. They went to her, and 
said, "You are a good creature, 
Uthlese, because you do not tell 
any one." They went into the 
houses, they ground malt, they 
mixed the mash, they strained the 
beer they had set to ferment 
rapidly on the day before, they 
poured the grains 61 into the mash 
they had mixed, that it might 
quickly ferment. They collected 
into large earthen vessels that 
which they had strained ; they 
took another vessel, and went with 
the beer that was in the vessel to 
Uthlese. On coming to her they 


60 Umlumiso , beer, generally a small quantity, the fermentation of which 
is pressed onward, that it may be soon ready for drinking. 

(il Amahhabulo differ from izinsipo. The amahhabulo are the sediments of 
beer whilst actively fermenting, and which are used to excite fermentation in 
new beer. The izinsipo are the refuse sediment, when the beer is fit for use. 


126 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


fika za puza, zi pa U/dese e Aleka 
e jabula, e ti, "A ngi 'uze nga ni 
tsho nina ; no ze n' enze njengoku- 
bona kwenu." 


drank, and gave also to Uthlese ; 
she laughed, and was joyful, and 
said, "I will never tell, for my 
part ; you shall do just as you 
like." 


The women look out for something wonderful. 


Ba buya b' emuka ba ya 'ku- 
/dala end/de, se be penduka inyoni. 
Kwa ti ntambama ba fika abafazi 
bonke ba bona ukuba sonke isi- 
jingi si vutshelwe. Ba ti, " O, 
u se katele U/dese i tina si m buza 
si ti, ' Kw enziwe ubani V A si 
binde nje. Ku kona um/dola o ya 
'uze, u vele lapa ekaya." 


Again they departed and went 
into the open country, again turn- 
ing into birds. In the afternoon 
all the women came and saw that 
all the mash was mixed. They 
said, " 0, Uthlese is wearied with 
us for asking her by whom it was 
done. Let us just say nothing. 
There is something wonderful 
which is about to happen here at 
home." 


Ukakaka learns the secret from V thlese. 


Kepa kwa ti kusi/dwa Ukakaka 
wa ya kuAlese, wa m ncenga wa m 
ncenga, e ti, " Hau ! kulu, ngi 
tshele uma loku kw enziwa ini 
na?" E se ti U/dese, "U mina, 
mntanemntanami." E se ti, "Hau ! 
kulu. A u kw azi ukwenza loku. 
Ngi tshele uma kw enziwe ubani 
na ? " E se ti, " Emini ni muka 
ni ti nya, ku sale ku fike intombi 
eziningi ; kepa pakati kwazo ku 
kona intombi en/de kakulu ; um- 
zimba wayo u ya kazimula ; i zona 
ke ez' enza utshwala lapa ekaya." 
Wa ti Ukakaka, " Wo ! kulu. 
A zi tshongo ini ukuti zi ya 'kuza 
ngomso na? " Wa ti U/dese, " O, 
zi ya 'kuza." Wa ti Ukakaka, 
" Ngi ya 'kuza nami emini kakulu, 
ngi ze ngi zi bone lezo 'ntombi." 
Wa ti, " Kodwa u nga zi tsheli, 
kulu." Wa ti, " Kga ; a ngi yi 
'ku zi tshela." Ba lala ke. 


But in the evening Ukakaka 
went to Uthlese and earnestly be- 
sought her, saying, " Hau ! grand- 
mother, tell me by what means 
this is done?" Uthlese replied, 
" By me, child of my child." He 
said, " Hau ! grandmother. You 
could not do it. Tell me by whom 
it has been done?" She said, 
" At noon, when every one of you 
are gone, there come many dam- 
sels ; but among them there is 
one most beautiful ; her body is 
glistening ; it is they who make 
beer here at home." Ukakaka 
said, " Oh ! grandmother. Did 
they not say they would come to- 
morrow?" Uthlese replied, " O, 
they will come." Ukakaka said, 
" I too will come at noon, and see 
the damsels." He said, " But do 
not tell them, grandmother." She 
replied, " No, I will not tell them." 
So they retired to rest. 


UKCOMBEKCANS IN I. 


127 


The bride and her maids pay a fourth visit 


Kwa sa kusasa, b' emuka abantu 
bonke, be ya 'kulima. Za sale za 
fika izintombi ; za ngena ezind/dini, 
za vova utshwala umuzi wonke. 
Za ti uma se zi kgedile ukuvova, 
za bu gcwalisa ngezimbiza umuzi 
wonke ; za tata ingcazi enkulu 
kakulu, za bu tela ngayo, zi bu 
Alanganisela bomuzi wonke ngen- 
kamba. Ya gcwala leyo 'ngcazi. 
Za puma nayo, za ya kuAlese ; za 
fike za bu beka ; za tata ubu- 
longwe, za sinda umuzi wonke ; za 
tshayela wonke umuzi ; za teza 
izinkuni, za beka emabaleni omuzi 
wonke ; za ngena end/dini lapa ku 
kona U/dese ; za tata izinkamba, 
za puza utshwala. 


UJcakaka su 

Ku te lapa se zi puzile kakulu 
utshwala, wa ngena Ukakaka ; 
za m bona, z' esuka za ya em- 
nyango, zi ti zi ya puma, kona zi 
za 'kubaleka, a ze a nga zi boni. 
Wa vimba emnyango, e ti, " Hau ! 
mnta kababa, kcombekcansini ; 
ng' enze ni kuwe na kangaka na, 
loku u ngi Alupe kangaka na?" 
Wa Aleka Ukcombekcansini, e ti, 
" Eh, eh. Yeka ni Ukakaka ! 
Angiti u wena owa ngi kipa em- 
zini kababa ; wa fike wa ngi shiya 
enkangala ; wa hamba nembulu 


62 The king's son is brought to the 
dove chiding her mate by saying, 

" Out upon thee ! 
Thou hast served 
As the king's son 

( Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p, 203 . ) 


On the following day all the 
people departed, going to dig. 
Then the girls came; they went 
into the houses ; they strained the 
beer in the whole kraal. When 
they had strained it all, they 
poured it into vessels in the whole 
kraal ; they took a very large 
earthen vessel, and poured into it, 
collecting the beer of the whole 
kraal with a vessel. They filled 
the earthen vessel. They went 
out with it, and went to Uthlese ; 
on their arrival they set it on the 
ground ; they took cowdung, and 
smeared the floors of the whole 
kraal j they swept the whole 
kraal ; they fetched firewood, and 
put it in the courts of the whole 
kraal; they went into the house 
in which was Uthlese ; they took 
vessels and drank beer. 

prises them. 

When they had drank a great 
deal of beer, Ukakaka entered the 
kraal ; when they saw him, they 
went to the doorway, thinking to 
go out, and then escape without 
his seeing them. But he blocked 
up the doorway, saying, " Hau ! 
child of my father, Ukcombe- 
kcansini, what great evil have I 
done you, that you have troubled 
me to this degree?" Ukcombe- 
kcansini laughed, saying, " Eh, eh. 
Out upon Ukakaka ! Was it not 
you who took me from my father's 
kraal, and left me on the high 
lands, and went away with an 
Imbulu ?" 62 He replied, " I saw it 
recollection of Messeria, by the little 

me 

served Messeria." 


128 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


na ? " Wa ti, " Nga ngi bona 
ukuba a ku si we. Kepa ngokuba 
ngi nga sa ku boni, nga koAlwa 
uma w enze njani na ? " Ba Alala 
ke, Ukakaka e jabula nokujabula 
e ti, " Nga ngi ti, 'Ngi ya 'kuze 
ngi fe/ ngi nga sa ku bonanga." 

Ukakaka tells the king th 

Kwa ti lapa se ku ntambama ba 
fika abantu. Wa puma Ukakaka 
wa ya kuyise e mamwateka ngo- 
kujabula, e ti, "Nam/da nje ke, 
baba, i fikile intombi eya ngi la- 
/dekela enkangala." Wa tsho e 
Aleka uyise ngokujabula, e ti, " I 
pi na?" Wa ti, " Nansiya en- 
dAlini." 


was not you. And because I no 
longer saw you, I did not know 
what you had done." So they re- 
mained, Ukakaka rejoicing greatly 
and saying, " I said, ' I shall soon 
die/ when I no longer saw you." 

t the true bride has come. 

When it was afternoon the peo- 
ple came. Ukakaka went out to 
his father, smiling with joy, and 
saying, " To-day then, my father, 
the damsel has come, who was lost 
to me on the high lands." His 
father asked, laughing for joy, 
" Where is she ?" He said, " Yon- 
der in the house." 


They prepare a punishment for the false bride. 


Wa ti uyise, "Tshela abantu 
bonke lapa ekaya, u ti, a ku suke 
amadoda 'embe umgodi masinya 
lapa esibayeni ; u ti kwabesifazana 
a ba peke amanzi ngamakanzi 
onke." Wa ba tshela ke. Kwa 
ti so kw enziwe konke loko kwa 
tiwa, a ku pume abafazi bonke, 
b' eze 'kwekga lowo 'mgodi o 
mbiwe esibayeni; kwa se ku be- 
kiwe ubisi pakati emgodini ; wa 
bizwa liomakoti lowo ; kwa tiwa, 
" Woza nawe, u ye esibayeni ; ku 
ya'kwekgiwa umgodi abantu bonke 
besifazana." Loko kwa kw enziwa 
ngokuba ku tiwa uma imbulu i 
bona ubisi i ya 'uziponsa, i ye 'ku- 
d/da ubisi. Kwa yiwa ke esiba- 
yeni. Wa ti umakoti, " Ngi y' e- 
saba ukuya esibayeni sasemizini." 
Ba ti, "Hamba; a ku nakcala." 
Wa hamba ke ; wa fika esibayeni. 
B' ek(?a abanye besifazana. Kwa 
tiwa naye a k' ek^e. Wa ti lapa 


His father said, "Tell all the 
people here at home, that all the 
men are to dig a pit immediately 
here in the cattle enclosure ; and 
tell the women to boil water in all 
the pots." So he told them. 
When all that was done, all the 
women were ordered to come and 
leap over the pit which had been 
dug in the cattle enclosure ; some 
milk had been put in the pit; 
and the bride 63 too was called ; it 
was said, " Do you too go to the 
cattle enclosure ; all the women 
are going to jump over the pit." 
This was done because it was said, 
when the Imbulu sees the milk, it 
will throw itself in and go to eat 
the milk. They went to the kraal. 
The bride said, " I am afraid to go 
into the cattle-pen of strangers." 
They said, " Go ; it is no matter." 
So she went, and came to the 
cattle-pen. The other women 
leapt. She was told to leap too. 
Wien she was about to leap, she 


63 TLat is, the false bride. 


UICCOMBEKCANSINI. 


129 


e ti u y' ek^a, wa e se bona ubisi, 
umsila wa se u sombuluka, wa 
ziponsa pakati emgodini, e bona 
ubisi. Kwa se ku suka abantu 
bonke be gijima, be tata amanzi a 
bilayo ngamakanzi, b' eza nawo, 
be wa tela emgodini. Ya fa 
imbulu. 

The nation is called 


saw the milk , 64 her tail unfolded, 
and she threw herself into the pit, 
on seeing the milk. Then all the 
people ran and took the boiling 
water, and came with it and 
poured it into the hole. The Im- 
bulu died . 65 

to the royal wedding. 


Kwa se ku tshelwa abantu 
bonke, be ti, "NamuAla u fikile 
umakoti." Kwa jabulwa; kwa 
tunywa abantu, kwa tiwa a ba 
hambe isizwe sonke, be tshela aba- 
ntu, be ti, a ku butane iketo, 
inkosi i ganiwe. Kwa sa kusasa. 
Kwa butana amadoda nezinsizwa 
nezintombi nabafazi ; ku ketwa ; 
umakoti naye e se sina, nentombi 
zakubo ; kwa Alatshwa inkomo ezi- 
ningi, kwa se ku dAliwa kwa ti 
ngensukwana. 


All the people were told that 
the true bride had come. They 
rejoiced ; and men were sent 
and told to go to the whole nation 
and tell the people to assemble for 
a dance, for the prince had been 
accepted by a damsel. On the fol- 
lowing day men and youths, and 
maidens and women, assembled ; 
they danced ; and the bride and 
her maidens also danced ; many 
cattle were killed; and they ate 
meat for several days. 


64 The cat which fell in love with a young man, and was by Venus changed 
into a beautiful girl and became his bride, retained the cat's disposition under 
the human form, and quitted her husband's side to catch a mouse which was 
playing in their chamber. "What is bred in the bone will never out of the flesh. " 

65 Basile's Pentamerone is a series of tales related to gratify the fancy of a 
slave who for a time had succeeded in snatching her reward from Zoza. A 
prince named Taddio was confined by enchantments in a tomb, from which he 
could be liberated only if a woman would fill a pitcher suspended near the tomb 
with her tears ; by this means she would bring the prince to life, and have him 
for her husband. Zoza had nearly filled the pitcher when she fell asleep. A 
black slave had been watching her, and whilst she was asleep, filled the pitcher 
with her own tears. The prince awoke, and took the slave to his home. Zoza 
after much suffering, and only by the aid of magic, at length convinced the 
prince of the deceit, and became his bride. The slave was punished by being 
buried in a hole up to her neck, that she might die a more lingering death. — In 
the tale of "The Three Citrons," a black slave takes the place of a prince's 
beautiful bride ; the bride is transformed into a dove ; and the prince, like 
Ukakaka, on his return, is surprised at finding a black woman instead of the 
fair damsel he had left ; the slave tells him it is the result of magic. The prince 
by magic detects the deception. The slave is punished by being cast on a pile 
of burning wood. — In Grimm's Home Stories we find a tale still more similar to 
the above. An aged queen sent her daughter to be married to the prince of a 
far distant country, accompanied by one female attendant. The condition of 
her prosperity was that she should preserve a white handkerchief on which the 
mother had dropped three drops of her own blood. In the journey the hand- 
kerchief was lost ; and the servant at once obtained a power over her mistress. 
Like the Imbulu, she succeeded in getting the clothes and horse of the princess 
in exchange for her own, and assumed her name. She was received as the prin- 
cess at the king's palace, and the princess is sent to herd the geese. The decep- 
tion is at length detected ; and the servant killed by being placed in a barrel 
full of spikes. The young prince marries the true bride, and, like Ukakaka and 
Ukcombekcansini, " both reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness till 
the end of their days." (" The Goose-herd.") 


130 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ukcombekcansini reigns with UJcaJcaJca. 


Ya ti inkosi, " A ku gaulwe 
umuzi kakakaka." Wa gaulwa, 
w* akiwa masinyane ; kwa ba 
umuzi omkulu kakulu ; wa e se 
bekwa umakoti, ku tiwa u yena e 
inkosikazi. Z' epa utshani izin- 
tombi, za fulela umuzi wonke lowo 
wakumakoti ; z' emuka ke, za 
pindela kubo. Wa sale wa busa 
yena nendoda yake. 

Lydia, Umkasetemba. 


The king ordered TJkakaka's 
kraal to be built. The wattles 
were cut, and the kraal built at 
once ; it was a very large kraal ; 
and the bride was appointed, it 
being said, it is she who is queen. 
The damsels plucked grass, and 
thatched the whole village of the 
bride ; they then departed and 
went back to their people. And 
she then reigned together with 
her husband. 


APPENDIX. 

THE "LITTLE BIRDS." 

In the legend-producing period, birds appear to have struck in a peculiar manner 
the fancy of man. Some were birds of evil omen, as the crow and raven ; and 
auguries were derived from their flight, &c. The same superstitions exist at 
the present time among the natives of this country. Thus a large bird called 
ingqungqulu or inhlazinyoni, if it cross the country in rapid flight, is supposed to 
be an omen of war in the direction in which it is flying. And if the utekwane , 
a bird to which the natives ascribe many peculiar powers, pass through a vil- 
lage, crying, it is considered as an omen of an approaching marriage, or of great 
fecundity in the herd. 

But it is " the little birds " which are messengers, and who come with their 
tale of warning or instruction. "The belief," says Dasent, " that some per- 
sons had the gift of understanding what the birds said, is primaeval. We pay 
homage to it in our proverbial expression, 'a little bird told me.' Popular tra- 
ditions and rhymes protect their nests, as in the case of the wren, the robin, 
and the swallow." 

This power of understanding the speech of birds not only exists in the 
legends of the Zulus, as we have seen from several of the tales already given, 
but even in recent times there have been those who pretended to comprehend 
their language, and to whom they have been prophets of the future. 
Umpengula, my native teacher, has given me several interesting accounts of the 
peculiar character of his brother Undayeni. He was a remarkable man, one of 
those who possess that high-strung, sensitive nervous system, which appears to 
place them en rapport with the spirit-world, and to give them capacities of sym- 
pathy which are not possessed by common men. He was the subject of dreams, 
which were realised, and of visions ; and often saved himself and family from 
impending danger by his prophetic insight into the future. It may be worth 
remarking that this peculiar power was not natural, that is, he was not born 
with it, but it manifested itself after a contest with a leopard which lasted the 
greater part of a day, and which nearly proved fatal to him. When he began 
to manifest these peculiar powers, his friends expected that he had been elected 
by the spirits to be a diviner ; and ascribed the fact of his not attaining to that 
eminence to a dispute between the spirits of his own house and those of his 
maternal uncle ; the latter wishing to give him the power and the former ob- 
jecting, and thus he was only a wise man and interpreter of dreams, " half-way 
between divining and not divining." Together with these powers he also com- 


THE "LITTLE BIRDS. 


131 


prehended the language of birds. The following is the account given by his 
brother : — 


Enye indaba eya ngi mangalisayo 
kandayeni, wa ba ikumushi le- 
nyoni. W' ezwa inyoni e ku tiwa 
umvemve u kuluma esibayeni, u 
ti, " Lima ni kakulu nonyaka nje. 
Ni za 'kutenga izinkomo." Kepa 
leyo 'ndaba wa i tshela abantu, wa 
ti, "Ngi zwile umvemve, u ti, a si 
lime kakulu, si za 'kutenga izin- 
komo. Nami ngi ya vuma ukuti 
u kginisile." 


Kepa kubantu loko 'kutsho ku- 
kandayeni kwa ba insum ansumane, 
ukuti, " XJ ti, ndayeni, u zwe in- 
yoni i tsho njalo na 1 " Kepa wa 
ti yena, "Ngi ti, i za 'kubuye i 
tsho okunye futi." Nembala nge- 
zinsukwana si Alezi esibayeni um- 
vemve wa kwitiza, si ng' ezwa uma 
u ti ni na. Kepa yena wa ti, 
" Lalela ni ! Nans' indaba." Sa 
tula. Wa kuluma umvemve ngako 
ukukwitiza. Wabuza Unday eni, 
wa ti, " Ni zwile ke ?" Sa ti, "A 
si zwanga. Si zwe umvemve u 
kwitiza nje okuningi." Kepa yena 
wa ti, " U ti, 6 Ngalo 'nyaka o ya 
'kuza li za 'kubalela.' " 


Kepa loko kwa si Alekisa. 
Umvemve lowo wa kuluma izin- 
daba eziningi Undayeni a zi zwa- 
yo ; kepa a si tshele, sa m Aleka 
sonke, sa ti, " U ya pupa ! Ubani 
o ng' ezwa ukukuluma kwenyoni, 
o nge si yo inyoni na ? " 

Nembala ngalo wo 'nyaka kwa 
fika Ungoza. O ! sa tenga izinko- 
mo eziningi kwabakangoza. Nge- 
muva kwalowo 'nyaka sa ba 


Another thing which astonished 
me in Undayeni was that he was 
an interpreter of the language of 
birds. He heard the bird which 
is called the wagtail speaking in 
the cattle-pen, and saying, " Dig 
extensively this year. You will 
buy many cattle [with the corn]." 
And he told the matter to the 
people, saying, " I have heard the 
wagtail telling us to dig exten- 
sively, and we shall buy many 
cattle. And I agree with it, that 
it has spoken truly." 

But that saying was like a fable 
to the people, and they asked, 
" Do you say, Undayeni, that you 
heard the bird say this?" And 
he replied, " I say it will pre- 
sently return, and say something 
else." And indeed after a few 
days, as we were sitting in the 
cattle-pen, the wagtail jabbered, 
we not understanding what it said. 
But he said, " Listen ! There is 
news." We were silent. The 
wagtail spoke by jabbering. Un- 
dayeni enquired of us, saying, 
" Have you understood then ? " 
We replied, "We did not under- 
stand. We heard the wagtail 
jabbering very much, and nothing 
more." But he said, " It says that 
next year it will be a dry season." 
But that made us all laugh. 
That wagtail spoke many things 
which Undayeni heard ; and when 
he told us we all laughed and said, 
" You are dreaming ! Who can 
understand the language of birds, 
who is not himself a bird ? " 

But truly, that year Ungoza 
came. O ! we bought many cattle 
with our corn of the people of 
Ungoza. The year after we had a 


132 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


nendAlala enkulu, sa ya .'kutenga 
emaAlatini. Sa ku bona loko okwa 
tskiwo Unday eni. Kepa ngalowo 
'mvernve wa si tshela njalo oku 
tskiwo i wo, e ti, " Uma ekukulu- 
meni kwawo ni beka ind/debe 
ka/de, ni ya 'kuzwa u kuluma in- 
daba." Kodwa loko sa mangala 
ngako, ngokuba a ku banga ko 
'muntu namunye pakati kwetu 
owa ku k^ondayo. Ngi tsko na 
namAla nje umvemve uma ngi zwa 
u kuluma, ngi beke ind/debe, ngi 
ti, " Kumbe ngi za 'kuzwa li linye 
izwi." Kepa, k^a, ukuzwa ! Ngi 
sa mangala ngaloko 'kutsho kuka- 
ndayeni ; ind/dala nga i bona, 
nenala nga i bona. 


Umpengula also relates the followk 

Indab a yekwababa ela biza Um- 
peza kamzenya, li m biza e/datini, 
ku balekiwe, ku punyiwe emakaya, 
ku balekelwa Amazulu. Kepa 
abantu ba Alangana ngokuzwa 
ukuba Amazulu a lwa namabunu, 
'eza 'kwa/duleka ; ba tanda uku- 
tumba izinkomo ; loku Amazulu a 
libele impi, a wazi ukubkeka izin- 
komo, a kandanisekile kakulu impi 
yamabunu ; a w azi 'kubheka izin- 
datshana. 


Ngaloko ke ba puma abantu 
ukuya kuleyo 'nzuzo yezinkomo. 
Ku te be sa puma nje, ikwababa 
la memeza ; abantu ba bkek' in- 
d/debe, be zwa umsindo, be ng' e- 
zwa 'zwi eli tshiwoyo. Kepa 
ikwababa la fundekela ngokubiza, 
li ti, " We, mpeza ! we, mpeza ! u 
nga yi kuleyo 'ndAlela yako ; u ya 
'kufa; a ku yi 'kubuya 'muntu 
kule 'mpi ; abantu ba ya 'kupela. 
Buyela ekaya." 


great famine, and went to buy corn 
in the forest-land. And so we saw 
that which Undayeni had said. 
And as regards the wagtail he told 
us continually what was said by 
it, saying, " If when it speaks you 
give an attentive ear, you will 
hear it speaking something of im- 
portance." And we wondered at 
that, for there was not one amongst 
us who understood the bird's 
speech. But I say that even to 
this very day when I hear a wag- 
tail speaking, I listen attentively, 
thinking, " It may be I shall hear 
one word." But, no, so as to un- 
derstand ! And I still wonder at 
the saying of Undayeni ; the 
famine I saw, and the abundance 
I saw. 

y anecdote : — 

The account of a crow, which 
called Umpeza, the son of Umze- 
nya, it calling him in the forest, 
where the people had fled from 
their homes, running away from 
the Zulus. But the people assem- 
bled on hearing that the Zulus 
were fighting with the Dutch, and 
were about to be conquered ; and 
they wished to take the cattle, for 
the Zulus were detained by the 
army, and were unable to look 
after the cattle ; and being much 
pressed by the Dutch force, they 
could not attend to little matters. 

The men, then, went out to that 
spoil of cattle. It happened as 
they were going from home, a crow 
cried out ; the men listened, hear- 
ing a noise, but not hearing a 
word that was said. But the crow 
was very urgent, crying and say- 
ing, " I say, Umpeza ! I say, Um- 
peza !. do not go by the way you 
are going ; you will die ; there 
will not return one man from the 
army ; the people will all die. Go 
home again." 


. THE " LITTLE BIRDS. 


133 


Kwa ti uma li zwakale ka/de 
lelo 'zwi kwabanye, ba li kumusha 
ngokuti, " Ikwababa li y' ala, li ti, 
'A ku yi 'kubuya 'muntu.' " Kepa 
abanye a b' ezwanga lelo 'zwi lo- 
kuti, "Aku yi 'kubuya 'muntu," 
nelokuti, " We, mpeza !" Ba pika, 
a ba kolwanga, ngokuba inyoni i 
ng' azanga i kuluma nabantu. Ba 
kangwa inzuzo a ba ya 'ku i zuza ; 
ngaloko ke ba hamba. 

Kepa Umpeza w' enyela um- 
zimba ngokuyolelwa ukufa. Wa 
buyela ekaya, nabanye ba kolwa 
izwi lokufa. Iningi la bamba ; 
kepa kubo bonke labo a ku buya- 
uga noyedwa, ukupela Usihliile 
yedwa owa sindayo. Ba bulawa 
bonke Amazulu. Ekufikeni kwake 
ekaya wa ti, " Ni bona mina nje 
'kupela; a ni sa yi 'kubona mu- 
mbe." Ngaloko ke ba kolwa aba- 
seleyo ezwini lekwababa e li ba 
tshelile. Kwa tsbiwo ke ukuti, 
" Kanti izinyoni lezi zi ya kuluma, 
kodwa a zi k^ondwa 'muntu." 
Kwa Alaliwa ke, kwa pela loko 
'kuAlupeka. Ngemva kwesikati 
iminyango eminingi ya buba ka- 
kulu ngaleyo 'mpi. Umpeza wa 
/dala isikati eside ; u s' and' ukufa 
kona manje, se ku indoda endala 
kakulu. 


When some heard thoroughly 
that saying, they interpreted it, 
saying, "The crow forbids us to 
go ; it says, ' Not a single man will 
return.' " But others did not hear 
the word, " Not a single man will 
return," nor that, " I say, Um- 
peza ! " They disputed, and did 
not believe, for birds were never 
known to speak with men. They 
were fascinated by the spoil they 
expected to gain ; and so they 
went. 

But the body of Umpeza be- 
came weak and languid through 
being told beforehand of death. 
He returned home, and others who 
believed the word about death. 
The greater number went ; but 
from among the whole not one 
returned, but Usichile alone, who 
escaped. They were all killed by 
the Zulus. When he came home 
he said, "You see me alone ; you 
will never see any of the rest." 
Those therefore who remained be- 
lieved in the word which the crow 
had spoken. And so it was said, 
" Forsooth these birds speak, and 
no one understands them." So 
they lived, and that trouble came 
to an end. After a time many 
households were destroyed through 
that Zulu army. Umpeza lived a 
long while ; he has only just died 
at the present time, being a very 
old man. 


The possession of this power of comprehending the language of birds 
is in old legends frequently associated with the influence of serpents. 
Thus, the young serpent which Melampus had brought up, played around 
him whilst he slept, and softly touched his ears. On awaking he found 
himself able to comprehend the chirping of birds. Iamus, the son of 
Evadne, was fed with honey by two serpents, sent to take charge of him by 
Apollo ; and when he had grown up, he besought Apollo to open his ears that 
he might reveal to the sons of men the hidden things of nature and of futurity. 
"Apollo touched his ears, and straightway the voices of the birds spake to him 
clearly of the things which were to come, and he heard their words, as a man 
listens to the speech of his friend." (Cox. Tales of Thebes and Argos , p. 
175 . ) Whilst in the legends of the North we read of Sigurd, who, incited by 
Regin, slew the serpent ; whilst roasting the heart he accidentally touched 


134 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


it with his finger, and conveyed a portion of the blood to his tongue, when he 
immediately understood the language of birds, and heard them conversing with 
each other of Regin's duplicity, and of the benefits Sigurd might obtain by eat- 
ing the whole of the heart which he was roasting for Regin. (Thorpe. 
Northern Mythology. Vol. I., p. 97.) This legend has found its way into the 
tales of the people in Germany in "The White Snake," (Grimm, p. 75,) and 
in the Highlands in "Fearachur Leigh." (Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 
361. ) The faithful Johan, through well understanding the language of birds, 
learns from them how to save his master from destruction. ( Grimm, p. 29 . ) 
And the prince, when the little bird sang on the tree, understood its language, 
and detects the deceit of the pretended bride. (Dasent. Op. cit., p. 42,7.) 

Among the North-American Indians the same power of conversing with 
birds and beasts is ascribed to Hiawatha in beautiful connection with the sim- 
plicity with which childhood looks on created things, and the readiness with 
which it sympathises with the lower world of animal life, and claims for itself 
a brotherhood with all living creatures. 

It is a raven which instructed Adam and Eve what to do with their dead. 
( Weil. Biblical Legends of the Mussulmans , p. 24 . ) In these legends the 
reader will find numerous instances of man holding intercourse with animals, &c. 
(see pp. 38, 40, 44, 104, 152. ) It appears to be supposed that originally man 
had a language in common with animals. All nature is represented as weeping 
in sympathy with Adam, when he was expelled from Paradise, "and the birds, 
and the beasts and insects," until " the whole universe grew loud with lamen- 
tation" (p. 16) ; and that " the brute creation lost the power of speech" only 
when the ox had reproached Adam with his transgression (p. 25). Compare also 
"the frightful shriek which all nature uttered " when Kadbar, assisted by the 
priests, slew the wonderful camel, which, at the prayer of Salih, God had 
caused to come out of the rocky mountains (pp. 42, 45). 

It is the guinea-fowl which warns the brothers of the approach of their 
sister for the purpose of killing them, and when the murder has been accom- 
plished reports the fact to their parents. (Bleek's Hottentot Tales. "A Bad 
Sister," p. 65 . ) It is a bird that pursues Macilo, and constantly reminds him 
that he has killed his brother, and at length " finds the sister of the victim and 
says to her, ' I am the heart of Maciloniane ; Macilo has murdered me ; my 
corpse is near the fountain in the desert.' " ( Casalis ' Basutos, p. 339.4 And 
that tells the parents that the younger of their two boys had been cast into the 
water by his elder brother. (Zulu Legend to be given below.) 

When Kasimbaba had climbed to heaven to seek Utahagi, a little bird 
shows him Utahagi's house. (Tylor. Op. cit., p. 347.) The little birds tell 
the kind child how to perform the various difficult tasks imposed on her by the 
old witch who lived underground. (Dasent. Op. cit. "The Two Step- 
sisters," p. 132. — Compare "The Two Caskets." Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories , p. 
102.4 And it is three sparrows, or in the corresponding tale three doves, which 
pronounce three blessings on the generous princess, and three curses on her 
churlish step-sister. (Thorpe. Idem. "The Beautiful Herd-girl," p. 35 
and 42 . ) 

It strikes one as singular and interesting that there should be so universally 
spread about among widely differing people this curious notion. In addition to 
those already mentioned, I will point out a few more instances from the folk-lore 
of other people. We saw above that the swallow talks with Usikulumi, and by 
means of its skin protects him from danger and saves him from destruction (p. 
53). It is Mama, the woodpecker, that comes to the despairing Hiawatha, and 
tells him of the place in the body of Megissogwon where alone he can be 
wounded. ( Longfellow's Hiawatha. ) A fairy in the form of a bird dropped a 
root on the arm of the king when he was about to kill Porziella, and he was 
seized with such a trembling that the weapon fell from his hand. ( Pentame - 
rone. ) It was a bird that told Kurangaituku of the destruction of her home by 
Hatupatu. (Grey. Op. cit., p. 187-4 And- it was the untimely laughter of 
the little Tiwakawaka that caused the death of Maui and the failure of his 


THE HONEY-BIRD. 


135 


enterprise. (Id., p. 57 . ) It is a little bird which warns the damsel that had 
been enchanted by her foster-mother, saying, 

" Look not at the billows blue, 

For then thou wilt turn gray." 

(Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories , p. 64.,) That gives warning to the betrayed bride 

by the words : — 

" Return, return, unhappy bride, 

Within this den the murderers hide." 

(Grimm. "The Robber Bridegroom,"^. 166.,) It is the little bird that ex- 
poses the deception of the false bride. ( Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 288. 
— Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories, p. 125.,) And that restores the forgotten bride 
to the recollection of the prince. (Thorpe. Id., "The Mermaid," p. 203; 
" Singorra," p. 220 ; " Goldmaria and Goldfeather," p. 451. — Dasent. Popular 
Tales from the Norse, " Katie Woodencloak, p. 427.) 

I here insert an account of the peculiar habits, almost amounting to intelli- 
gence, of the honey-bird. It was given me by a native, but has been substan- 
tially corroborated by whitemen who have themselves been led by it to deposits 
of honey. It is quite possible that many of the superstitions relating to birds 
had their origin in such or similar manifestations as are here described. The 
childlike mind has no theory to support ; it makes no arbitrary distinctions be- 
tween intelligence as manifested by man, and intelligence as manifested by 
brutes ; where it sees actions implying intelligence, there it believes intelligence 
exists. Such a thought is probably at the bottom of the theory of transmigra- 
tion, and of the possibility of there being an intercommunication between man 
and the lower animals. 


INHLAMVU. 

(the honey-bird.) 


Inhlamvu inyoni e bizelayo izin- 
yosi. Pakati kwabantu abamnya- 
ma ku tiwa i inkosi. Uma umu- 
ntu e i ponsa ngetshe lapo e nga i 
landelanga, ku tiwa ka 'muntu 
waluto. Ngokuba noma umuntu 
e nga zi boni izinyosi, ka tsho 
ukuti, "A ngi i tshaye, i k^amb' a- 
manga." A ku njalo. Zona zi 
kona ; noma ku nge zona, okunye. 
Uma e nga ku boni, ka nga i twesi 
ikcala ; ngokuba i tshay wa i y' e- 
saba ukubizela abantu izinyosi. 


Ku ti ngesikati lapo umuntu e 
hamba e ng' azi 'luto, noma u se e 
lambe okubi, ka namandAla oku- 
hamba ngamand/da, u se zitwele ; 
ku fike inyoni, In/damvu ibizo 


The Inthlamvu is a bird which by 
its cry calls men to places where 
there are honey-bees. Among 
black men it is said to be a chief. 
If a man throws a stone at it 
when he does not follow it, he is 
regarded as a man of nought. For 
if a man does not find bees, he 
should not say, " Let me throw a 
stone at it, it is a liar." It is not 
so. The bees are there ; or if they 
are not there, there is something 
else. If he does not see it, he 
must not blame the bird ; for if it 
is struck it is afraid to call men to 
the place where there are honey- 
bees. 

It happens when a man is walk- 
ing, unconscious of anything, or 
perhaps he is very hungry, and is 
unable to walk fast, being a burden 
to himself j then may come a bird, 


T 


136 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


layo. A ti c hamba, kumbe i vele 
ngapambili, 'ezwe se i tseketse 
kakulu, a kgale uku wa zuza ama- 
ndAla ngokukolwa ukuti, " Se ngi 
suti, ngokuba ngi bizelwa isi- 
minya." Kepa a tsbo ke, uku i 
vumela kwake, ukuti, " Eh ! " 
noma, " Tseketse,! " U ya i bonga 
kukgala, e ti, " Hlamv' e bizela 
amanina ekulimeni ! Ehe ! Yi- 
tsho, ngi zwe u ti ni." Lapo ke i 
se i kala ngokukala okukulu ; i se 
i bangalase pakati kwesikcea ; naye 
u se e jabula kakulu; i hambe 
pambili, ngokuba pela yona i um- 
hholi. Umuntu ka buzi ukuti, 
" Ngi za 'kuya ngapi ?" U landela 
yona njalo ; i hambe, i m linde ; 
ngokuba i ya ndiza, yena u ya no- 
foza ; uma i suka i ya kude, i buye 
i m Alangabeze. Lapa e nga s' e- 
zwa nakukala, se ku te nya, a bo 
sa te , 66 " XJ ye ngapi na ?" Ku ti 
nya, a kgale ukumemeza kakulu 
ngokuti, " O-o-o-yi ! " e ti, ka i 
zwe, ukuba u ya i funa. Lapo ke 
e se mi eduze lapa i m shiye kona ; 
ngokuba noma se i buya, i buya i 
ye lapa i m shiye kona ; a i zwe, i 
s' eza i bangalisile; 'enanele ka- 
kulu, ukuti, " E-ha ! " I ze i tike 
kuye. Uma i nga m boni, i Alale 
emtini, a ze a vele obala, a i bone, 
nayo i m bone ; i muke ke, i Alale 
ngapambili ; i ze i like lapa se zi 
seduze, li k^ale ukuncipa izwi ; a 


its name is Inthlamvu. As he is 
walking along, perhaps it appears 
in front of him, and he hears it 
loudly chirping, and he begins to 
gain strength through faith, say- 
ing, " My hunger is already ap- 
peased, because I am called for 
a reality." So he says in answer, 
"Eh!" or "Chirp!" He first 
praises it, saying, "Thou honey- 
bird, who calls the women when 
they are digging ! Yes ! yes ! 
Speak, that I may hear what you 
say." Then it cries with a very 
great crying, and makes a great 
noise in the bushes ; and the man 
too is very glad ; the bird goes in 
front, for in fact it is a guide. The 
man does not ask where he is 
going. He follows it continually ; 
it goes and waits for him ; for it 
flies, but he passes with difficulty 
through the underwood. If it 
goes a great distance in front, it 
returns and meets him. When he 
does not hear even its cry, and it 
is quite silent, he says again and 
again, "Where are you gone?" 
If there is no sound, he begins to 
shout very loud, saying, "O-o-o- 
yi ! " telling it to understand 
that he is looking for it. And 
then he still stands near the place 
where the bird left him ; for when 
it comes back, it comes back to 
the place where it left him ; and 
he hears it coming and making a 
great noise, and he cheers it very 
much, shouting, " E-ha ! " At 
length it comes to him. If it does 
not see him and stops on a tree, 
he at length stands forth, and sees 
it, and it sees him, and so it de- 
parts and pitches in front : at 
length it comes near the place 
where the bees are, and begins to 


06 This is a common mode of expression, the exact grammatical structure 
of which is not clear : bo occurs with or without sa or ya, as above, or in the 
following sentences : — Wa bo sa te, or Wa bo ya te, or Wa bo te ; Ngi bo ya te, 
or Ngi bo sa te ; Nga bo ku ya ti, or Nga bo ku sa ti. It is used to express the 
rapid, fruitless repetition of a similar act from haste, alarm, restlessness, &c. 


THE HONEY-BIRD. 


137 


ze a ti, "A ngi hambe nga- 
mandMa, se i bekile," 'ezwa i 
nk^wininize kancinyane ; kanti a 
i ka beki ; u za 'uti uma 'like 
~kona, i ti i sa m bona, i suke i 
k^ale ukubambela pansi ; 'azi nga- 
loko ukuti, kga, se zi seduze. Ku 
ti uma indawo i sobala, i y' esuka, 
i ya M ala ngapambili ; i se i tsbo, 
i tula ; a bo ku i vumele, i twiki- 
twikize, i tule, i kombe ; a ti uma 
i bona, a bone se i bamba, a kgale 
ukusinga ; a bo sa te, " Ab ! Na- 
ziya, zi ngena pansi kwomuti." 
Lapo ke se zi ngena ubutaputapu, 
a sondele ; i Male ; a ti uma e se 
fika impela, i suke i Male njeya 
eduze, i buke, naye a i bone i tule 
nya ; a zi mbe, a zi tape ; a i 
bekele amakgafazi ; ikekana a b 
Mome otini, ukuze i dMe; kona 
ngomso i ya 'ku m biza futi. 


Kepa lelo 'kekana a i li dMi, i 
d/da izimpukane ezindizayo. A 
hambe ke, ngokuba pela ku tiwa 
uma umuntu e i bekela uju, i tsha 
izwi. Ku ti kumbe uma ku izwe 
eli vame izinyosi, a ti, e sa zi 
twele, e ti, u ya 'kufuna indawo 
yokuba a zi dMela kona ; i be se i 
fika, 'ezwe, se i tsbo. Kepa u se 
i vumela ngokujabula ; kodwa 
ngokuba i m kcebisile, ka sa yi 'ku 
i landela, ngokuba se kw anele 
kuye. A hambe ke, a goduke. 

Futi emaManzeni zi tolwa ngayo. 
TJmfazi u ya i landa ; uma i fika e 
lima, a bize omunye, ba i lande, 


cry less loudly. And be says, " Let 
me make baste, for it has now 
pitched," when be bears it gently 
crying ; but it has not yet settled ; 
but when be approaches, it begins 
to go towards the ground ; and be 
thereby knows that the bees are 
near at band. If the place is ex- 
posed, it goes and settles in front ; 
it chirps and is silent ; be again 
and again responds to it, it chirps 
and is silent, and points in the 
direction of the bees. When it 
sees him it flies off, and be catches 
sight of it, and begins to mark down 
the bees ; again and again be says, 
" Ab ! There they are entering 
at the foot of the tree." And 
when be sees them going in in 
crowds be draws near; and the 
bird is still : when be reaches the 
very place, the bird comes and 
waits over against him and looks 
on ; and be sees that it is quiet ; 
be digs out the bees and takes out 
the honey ; be places the young 
bees for the bird, and sticks a piece 
of comb on a stick, that it may 
eat ; and then it will call him 
again on another day. 

But it does not eat the comb, it 
eats the young bees which can fly. 
So the man sets out; for it is said if 
a man places honey for it, it will 
lose its voice. Perhaps if it is a 
country which abounds in honey, 
as be is carrying it off looking for 
a place where be can eat it, it 
comes again, and be bears it cry- 
ing, and he responds to it gladly ; 
but since it has given him abun- 
dance be will not follow it again ; 
for be has enough, so be goes 
home. 

And in the thorn-country bees 
are found by it. A woman follows 
it ; if it comes to her when she is 
digging, she calls another woman, 
and they follow it, and the bus- 


138 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


indoda i bone umfazi e fika nezin- 
yosi. Ku ti uma ku kona inyoka 
emgodini, s' azi ukuba abantu ba 
lunywa futifuti lapa e ti u tapa 
izinyosi ; ngokuba a si tandi ukuba 
umgodi si u kgede ; futi ukumba 
kwomuntu oAlakanipileyo ka w o- 
ni umlomo e zi ngena ngawo ; u 
/daba ekcaleni, 'enze umlomo, o ya 
'ku puma amakeke ; ka si u kgedi 
lowo 'mgodi ngokumba ; ngokuba 
uma si u kgeda, leso 'siganga zi 
nge buye zi s' ake ; si ya lingani- 
sela, ukuze si buye si fune itshe, si 
vimbe ka/ale. 

Uma ku kona inyoka, ku ti lapa 
umuntu e tapa, kumbe a bone ku 
puma amakeke e nezimbobo ; ku- 
mbe a ti ku kona impande ; kepa 
uma ku kona impande a ya da- 
buka ; ku ti kwelokupela lapa 
inyoka y en^ike ngalo, a ti lapa e 
ti u bamba ikeke lokupela, ame/do 
ka \va boni pakati, u funisela nge- 
sand/da nje, 'ezwe se i m 7d aba ; a 
pume ngokubaleka, a bone isand/da 
se s' opa; u d/diwe. Uma ku 
imamba, u ya 'kufela kona lapo ; 
uma ku inyoka enye, kumbe a Ala- 
nguleke. Manje se si ti, si nga 
ka zi mbi, si kgale ngokuba si 
beke induku emlonyeni womgodi, 
ukuze si bone noma zi nenyoka, 
noma i nge ko. Uma i kona, kwo 
ti umuntu e sa i beka nje induku 
zi be se zi hamba pezu kwayo ; a 
ti, " O, zi nenyoka ! " Lowo 'm- 
godi u ya 'ku u shiya, uma ku 
umuntu owesabayo. Uma ku o 
nesibindi, a u /dikize wonke, ukuze 
a zi tape e bona. Ku njalo ke. 


band sees his wife returning with 
honey. When there is a snake in 
the hole, we know that people are 
frequently bitten when they are 
taking out honey ; for we do not 
like to destroy the hole; and a 
wise man when he digs does not 
injure the hole by which the bees 
enter; he digs at the side, and 
makes a hole by which he can 
take out the comb ; we do not de- 
stroy the hole by digging ; for if 
we destroy it, that swarm of bees 
will not repair it ; we measure the 
hole we have made, that we may 
find a stone and close it up nicely. 

If there is a snake in the hole, 
when the man takes out the honey, 
perhaps he sees that there are 
holes in the comb ; perhaps he says 
it is roots which have occasioned 
the holes ; but if it is roots, the 
combs are broken. At the last 
where the snake is coiled up, when 
he thinks to grasp the last comb, 
(the eyes cannot see inside, he is 
searching about with his hand 
only,) he feels himself wounded ; 
he draws his hand out rapidly, and 
sees it bleeding ; he has been 
bitten. If it is an imamba, he 
will die there and then. If it is 
another snake, perhaps he may 
live to have remedies applied. 
Now, before we dig, we begin by 
putting a stick into the mouth of 
the hole, that we may see if there 
is a snake with the bees or not. 
If there is, as soon as the man 
puts the stick in, the bees will 
walk on it. So he says, " There 
is a snake," and will leave that 
hole if he is a timid man ; but if 
he is brave, he will break down 
the whole, that he may see what 
he is about when he is taking out 
the honey. That is how it is. 


THE HONEY-BIRD. 


139 


Ku ti urn a i bizela isilo i zwa- 
kala ngokugubaza, i tshaya ama- 
piko ; lapo umuntu u se e ya 'ku- 
buya. Kodwa kuk^ala a ku banga 
njalo ; kwa ku ng' aziwa ukuba 
y' enza ni, kwa za kwa bonwa loko 
lapa i kona, ukuti, " O, kanti i ngi 
bizela isilo." Noma imbuzi i file, 
noma inkomo i d/fiiwe isilwane, 
noma inyoka i zisongile, inyoka 
enkulu. 


Njengaloku kwa ti si s' ake 
embava. Ubaba e bulele inyati, 
sa vuka kusasa, si ya 'utwala 
inyama ; ku te uma ilanga se li 
fudumele, kwa fika InAlamvu, ya 
si biza masinyane ; si baningi, sa 
ketana ukuze si i lande ; abanye 
ba kgonda lapa ku yiwa kona ; sa 
i landela ke. Lokupela u sebu- 
sika izwe li tshile, a ku fiAleke 
'luto ; ku te uma i fike enadweni, 
ya Alala, ya beka obala ; sa bamba 
kaAle, si ti, " Eh ! izinyosi ezi lapa 
obala ezani na 1 " Si te si sa fika, 
y' esuka, ya Alala njeya eduze, ya 
tula. Sa funa, sa funa ; s' a/du- 
leka. S' emuka si hamba si teta. 
Kepa ya fika futi, ya si buyisela 
kona. Sa fnna, sa funa, ngokuba 
tina si funa izinyosi ; kanti a i si 
bizeli zona, i si bizela okunye. 
Ku te pakati kwokufuna nga bona 
uto lu zisongile pansi kwomuti, 
lu nesango lu dumbile. Nga ti, 


When it calls a person to a 
place where there is a leopard, it 
is heard striking its sides with its 
wings ; and then a man will turn 
back. But at first it was not so ; 
it was not understood what it was 
doing, until the place was seen 
where the leopard was; and he 
said, "O, it calls me to where 
there is a leopard forsooth." Or 
it may call to a place where there 
is a dead goat, or a bullock de- 
voured by wild beasts, or a great 
snake coiled up. 

As it happened to us when we 
were living on the Imbava. Our 
father having killed a buffalo, we 
awoke early in the morning to go 
and fetch the flesh ; when the sun 
was now hot, there came a honey- 
bird, and called us urgently ; as 
we were many, we chose some of 
us to follow it ; some set out for 
the place where we were going ; 
I and others followed it. As it 
was winter the whole country had 
been burnt, and nothing was con- 
cealed by long grass ; when it 
arrived at the site of an old vil- 
lage, it stopped and pitched in the 
open space ; we proceeded gently, 
saying, " Why, what kind of bees 
are those which are in an open 
situation ? " When we came up, 
it flew away, and pitched again 
near at hand over against us, and 
was silent. We looked and looked, 
but found nothing. We went 
away, going along and talking. But 
it came again, and took us back to 
the same place. We searched and 
searched, for we were looking for 
honey ; but it, forsooth, was not 
calling us for honey ; it was call- 
ing us for something else. As we 
were searching, I saw something 
bent on itself under a tree ; it had 
an opening, and was large. I 


140 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


" Nans' insimbi yami." Sa gijima 
sonke si pangelana kona. Nga i 
tabata ; ya sinda. Nga ti, " U 
'nsimbi ni le 1 ? " Abanye ba ti, 
" Insimbi impela." Kepa sa piki- 
sana. Sa funa amatshe, sa i tshaya 
etsheni, sa ti, " Ab ! kanti, ubedu 
lwensimbi yetusi elibomvu." Sa 
hamba ke ; ya tula. Kwa ku 
pela. 

Uhpengula Mbanda. 


sfiouted, " Behold my piece of 
metal." We all ran hurrying 
together to the place. I took it 
up ; it was heavy. I said, " Wliat 
metal is this 't " The others said, 
u It is really metal." But we dis- 
agreed. We found a stone and 
struck it, and said, " Ah ! so it is 
a collar of red brass." So we 
walked away ; it was silent ; and 
that was the end of it. 


The natives also affect to hear in the cry of certain birds sounds resembling 
human speech ; thus, they say the female of the insingizi cries, Ngi y' emuka , 
ngi y' emuka, ngi ya kwabetu , "I am going away, I am going away to my 
people." To which the male replies, Hamba, hamba, kad ' u tsho , "Go, go, you 
have said so before : " — an amusing illustration of what frequently passes be- 
tween a native and his wife. The utekwane is represented as saying, Nga ngi 
ba ngi muhle ; ng ' oniwa i loku na loku , "I should be beautiful, but I am spoiled 
by this and by this ; " that is, it points to certain parts of its form which it re- 
presents as ugly. And one of our schoolgirls lately gave an articulate meaning 
to the cry of the ringdove, saying it called her brother Ungadenzima to eat the 
wild medlars, Gu-gu, ngadenzima , a vutiwe amatulwa , ngadenzima. Gu-gu, 
" Coo-coo, 'Ngadenzima ; the wild medlars are ripe, 'Ngadenzima. Coo-coo." 


ITSHE LIKANTUNJAMBILI. 

(the rock of two-holes ; or, the cannibal's cave.) 


The following fragment, a portion doubtless of some extensive legend, 
the details of which however I have as yet failed to trace out, is here 
inserted as an introduction to the tale of " The Girl and the Can- 
nibals," in which allusion is made to the Bock of Two-holes. 


Itshe likantunjambili ind/du lapa 
kwa /dala kona Amazimu ; kepa 
li vulwa ngoku/dakanipa kwomni- 
nilo ; a li vulwa ngezand/da, li 
vulwa ngomlomo ; ukuba umuntu 
a fike, a memeze ngasendaweni 
yomnyango ; kepa lowo 'mnyango 
a u naluto lokuba umuntu a lu 
bambe ngesand/da, a u vule. Nga- 
loko ke ukuvulwa kwalo ukume- 
meza igama lend/du leyo lokuti, 
" Litshe likantunjambili, ngi vu- 
lele, ngi ngene." Kepa li noku- 


The Bock of Two-holes, a house 
where cannibals lived ; but it was 
opened by the cunning of the 
owner ; it was not opened by 
hands, it was opened by the 
mouth ; that is, when a man came, 
he shouted near the doorway ; but 
that doorway had nothing which a 
man could take hold of with his 
hand, and open it. Therefore it 
was opened by shouting the name 
of the house, and saying, " Bock 
of Untunjambili , 67 open for me, 
that I may enter." But it could 


67 A personal name, meaning Two-holes. 


THE ROCK OF TWO-IIOLES. 


141 


pendula, uma li nga tandi ukuvu- 
leka kulowo 'rnuiitu, o t' a li m 
vulele ; li ti, uku m pendula, 
" A li vulwa abantwana ; li vulwa 
izinkwenjane zona zi hamba pe- 
zulu." 'Ezwe ukuba " A li vumi 
ukuvuleka kumi, li valiwe." Na- 
nto ke ilizwi e ngi Y aziyo ngetshe 
likantunjambili. Nam/da se si ti, 
' ' It she lelo kanti ku tsbiwo izin- 
dMu lezi zabelungu." Kepa ku 
sale izwi li be linye lokuti, " Le- 
yo 'nd^lu i vulwa izinkwenjane : " 
li nga tsho ukuba i vulwa abantu : 
kepa lezi zi vulwa abantu. A si 
kgondi uma leyo 'nd/du e vulwa 
izinyoni ezi hamba pezulu i njani- 
na. Ku ya bonakala ; kepa a ku 
bonakalisi ukuba i lezi e si zi bo- 
nayo impela, noma a si zo. Ku 
imfumfu loko kitina. 

Umastjanje Mbanda. 


answer if it did not wish to open 
to that man, who asked it to open 
for him ; it said in answer, " The 
Rock is not opened by children ; it 
is opened by the swallows which 
fly in the air." And he perceived 
that it would not open to him, 
but remained closed. That, then, 
is what I have heard of the 
Rock of Kntunjambili. Now we 
say, " So then that Rock means 
these houses of the whitemen." 
But there is still left one word, to 
wit, " That house is opened by the 
swallows : " it does not say it is 
opened by men ; but these are 
opened by men. We do not un- 
derstand what kind of a house that 
is which is opened by birds which 
fly in the air. It is evident ; yet 
it is not very evident, whether it 
is these houses which we really 
see, or whether it is not they. It 
is not clear to us . 68 


63 The Rock of Two-holes has a considerable resemblance to the cave men- 
tioned in the Forty Thieves, and which was opened and shut by a word. It is 
curious that the Sesamum should figure in both stories ; there as the word — 
" Open Sesame" — by which the rock was opened ; here as the means employed 
by the girl in making her escape from the Amazimu. That was the abode of 
robbers ; this of cannibal thieves. The power of opening solid bodies by a word 
or charm is mentioned in many tales of different countries. The Nama woman 
and her brothers, when pursued by the elephant, address a rock with these 
words, "Stone of my ancestors! divide for us." The rock divides, and they 
pass through. The elephant addresses it in like manner ; the rock divides, and 
closes upon him again and kills him. (Bleeps Hottentot Fables , p. 64. )— The 
" Manito of the Mountain " 


" Opened wide his rocky doorways, 
Giving Pau-Puk-Keewis shelter," 

when he was pursued by Hiawatha. But though Hiawatha 


he 


" Cried in tones of thunder, 

* Open ! I am Hiawatha ! ' " 


" Found the doorways closed against him," 

(Longfellow's Hiawatha .) — So Hatupatu, when he was nearly overtaken by 
Kurangaituku, "repeated his charm, ' O rock, open for me, open.' The rock 
opened, and he hid himself in it." (Grey. Op. tit., p. 188.,) 

Ogilby informs us that there was a hollow sycamore tree at El Mattharia 
(Materea, Heliopolis) respecting which the Turks related the following legend : 
— " This tree by a miracle was split in two parts, between which the Virgin 
Mary, with her child Jesus and Joseph, put themselves to disappoint the perse- 
cuting pursuers, whereinto they were no sooner entered, but it immediately by 


142 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


INTOMBI NAMAZIMU. 
(the girl and the cannibals.) 


Some cannibals steal a sheep. 


Kwa ti Amazimu 'emuka a ya 
'kuzingela ; a ya kude. A fumana 
abafana b' alusile izinkomo ne- 
zimvu nezimbuzi. Ku kona in- 
kungu, a i tata inyama yemvu 
ekulupeleyo, a hamba nayo. Aba- 
fana ka ba ze ba wa bona. A 
hamba nayo endAlini yawo, a fika 
endAlini yawo. 


It happened that some canni- 
bals went to hunt ; they went a 
great distance. They found some 
boys herding cattle and sheep and 
goats. There was a fog, and they 
took a fat ram of the sheep, and 
went away with it. The boys did 
not see them. They took it to 
their house. 


The cannibals leave a captive maiden , warning her not to roast the 
sheep during their absence. 


Ku kona intombi a e tumbile 
kukgala emzini otile. Ya i nabane 
wabo. Kwa ti Amazimu 'emuka 
e i yalile, a ti, " U nga y osi 
inyama yemvu emini." Ngokuba 
a e saba amanye Amazimu ; ngo- 
kuba a ya 'kuza uma 'ezwa ipunga 
lenyama, a i tabate intombi, e nge 
ko a ng' abanikaziyo. A ya kude. 


There was a girl, whom they 
had before taken captive at a cer- 
tain village. She had some bro- 
thers. When the cannibals went 
away, they had exhorted her, say- 
ing, " Do not roast the flesh of the 
sheep by day." For they were 
afraid of other cannibals ; for they 
would come if they smelt the 
odour of the meat, and take the 
girl when her owners were absent. 
They went to a distance. 


Other cannibals , attracted by the scent of the roasted meat , discover the 
maiden's retreat. 


Kwa ti emini enkulu, intombi 
ya lamba, ya y osa inyama, ya i 
d/da. Amanye Amazimu a li zwa 
ipunga lenyama, a ti, "Um, um ! 


At noon the girl was hungry ¦ 
she roasted some meat and ate it. 
Some other cannibals smelt the 
odour of the meat, and said, "Um, 


like miracle closed again, till the Herodian child-slaughterers passed by, and 
then suddenly reopened to deliver its charge, so as at this day it is to be seen." 
(Ogilby's Africa, p. 73.) 

In the tale " Dummburg," there is the account of a door leading to con- 
cealed treasures, which was opened and closed by the words, "Little door, 
open ! " and " Little door, shut ! " ( Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories , p. 482.) 


THE GIRL AND THE CANNIBALS. 


143 


Ku nuka ngapi leli 'punga eli- 
mnandi na?" A sezela, 'ezwa 
ipunga elimnandi. A fika lapo 
ku kona intombi. 


The Rock c 

Kwa ku kona itshe elikulu lapa 
ya i Alala kona ; ibizo lalelo 'litshe 
kwa ku tiwa Itshe-likantunja- 
mbili ; ngokuba la li indAlu pakati 
kwalo; ku tiwe futi lelo 'litshe 
kambe la li vulwa ngokutsho 
kwomninilo ; la li valwa futi um- 
ninilo, a ti, " Vuleka," li vuleke ; 
a ti, " Yaleka," li valeke. Ngo- 
kuba la li bizwa u ye yedwa. 

The cannibals summon tl 

Kwa ti e sele e yoknzingela 
umninilo, intombi i pakati. Wa 
i valela kona ngapakati, ngokuba 
kwa ku inyamazane yake. Wa i 
yala, wa ti, i nga y osi inyama 
emini, ngokuba wa e saba amanye 
amazimu. Kwa ti se i lambile, ya 
y osa inyama, ya dAla. Kwa t' u- 
ba amanye amazimu 'ezwe ipunga 
layo, a ti, " Um, um ! Ku vela 
ngapi leli 'punga elimnandi na ? " 
A sezela ngalapo ku vela kona 
ipunga — usi ; a ya ngakona, a fika 
etsheni likantunjambili,igama lalo. 
Elinve kuwo la ti, " Litshe lika- 
ntunjambili, ngi vulele,ngi ngene." 
Wa ti o pakati, ukuti intombi ya 
ti, i zwa ukuba amanye amazimu, 
a si ye umninilo, ya ti, " Yiya ! a 
li muke izimu eli-siAlutu. A si 
ye lowo umninile 'ndawo." 


um ! Whence comes this delicious 
smell ? " They snuffed up the air, 
perceiving the delicious scent. 
They came to the place where the 
damsel was. 

' Two-holes. 

There was a great rock where 
she was staying ; the name of the 
rock was, Itshe-likantunjambili ; 
for it was a house inside ; it is also 
said that that rock was opened by 
the word of its owner ; it was also 
closed by its owner, who said, " Be 
opened," and it opened, or he said, 
" Be closed," and it closed. Bor it 
was summoned by him alone. 

3 damsel to open to them. 

When the cannibal, the owner 
of the rock, went out to hunt, 
the damsel remained inside. He 
shut her up inside because she 
was his game. He exhorted her 
not to roast meat at noon, for he 
was afraid of the other cannibals. 
But when she was hungry, she 
roasted the flesh, and ate. When 
some other cannibals smelt the 
odour of the meat, they said, " Um, 
um ! Whence comes this delicious 
odour 1 " They snuffed up the air 
in the direction whence the odour 
— the nice odour — came ; and 
went in that direction, and came 
to the rock of Untunjambili. 
That was its name. One of them 
said, " Bock of Untunjambili, 
open to me, that I may enter." 
She who was inside, that is, the 
girl, on hearing that it was other 
cannibals, and not the owner of 
the rock, said, " Away ! let the 
long-haired cannibal depart. It is 
not the owner of this place." 


u 


144 


IZINGANEIvWANE. 


A cannibal feigns the voice of the owner of the Rock of Two-holes , 
and is admitted. 


L' emuka, la ya, la tshisa izwi 
lalo ngegeja. La buya, la ya futi 
etsheni likantunjambili ; la fika, 
la tsho ngezwi elincinyane, eli 
lingerie izwi lomninileyo 'ndawo ; 
la ti, " Litshe likantunjambili, ngi 
vulele, ngi ngene." Ya vula ; la 
ngena ; la d/da inyama e be i tshi- 
wo. Intombi ya ti ukuba i li 
bone, ya pel' amand/da. La ti 
izimu, " Hamba si hambe, ngi nga 
ku d/di." Intombi ya tutumela, 
y' esaba kakulu. Ya li nika 
inyama, la d/da, P esuta. La ti 
kuleyo 'ntombi, " Hlala lapa ngi 
ze ngi buye; ngi sa ya'kuzingela." 
La ti la puma, la hamba. 


The cannibal departed, and 
made his voice hoarse with a hoe ; 
and returned to the rock of Untu- 
njambili ; he came and said, with 
a little voice , 69 which resembled 
the voice of the owner of the place, 
" Hock of Untunjambili, open to 
me, that I may enter." She open- 
ed ; the cannibal entered, and ate 
the meat which has been mention- 
ed. When the girl saw him, she 
lost all power. He said, " Let us 
go together, that I may not eat 
you." The girl trembled, and was 
greatly afraid. She gave him 
meat; he ate and was satisfied. 
He said to the girl, " Stay here till 
I come back. I am now going to 
hunt." He went out, and went 
on his way. 


The maiden escapes , and is pursued. 


Intombi y' azi ukuba li za 'ku i 
d/da ; ya puma. Ya tela udonga 
esigujini, ya hamba. La fika izi- 
mu, la ti, " Litshe likantunjambili, 
ngi vulele, ngi ngene." Kwa ti 
tu ; ngokuba intombi i mukile. 
La pinda futi, la tsho njalo. Kwa 
ti nya. L' azi ukuba intombi i 
pumile. La mema amaningi, a i 
landa intombi. A fika end/deleni, 
a bona udonga ; (ngokuba amazimu 
a e lu tanda udonga ;) a kcotsha. 


The girl knew that he would 
return and eat her ; she went out ; 
she poured sesamum into a cala- 
bash, and went away. The can- 
nibal came and said, " Hock of 
Untunjambili, open for me, that I 
may enter." There was silence ; 
for the girl had departed. Again 
he said the same words. There 
was perfect silence. So he knew 
that the girl had departed. He 
called many cannibals, and they 
pursued the girl. They came to a 
path, and saw sesamum scattered 
on the ground ; (for cannibals are 
fond of sesamum ;) they gathered 


69 In " The Wolf and the Seven Young Kids," the wolf having demanded 
admission, feigning to be their mother, they replied, " No, no ; we shall not 
open the door ; you are not our mother ; she has a gentle loving voice, but yours 
is harsh ; for you are a wolf." The wolf went away, and "swallowed a great 
lump of chalk to make his voice more delicate." (Grimm's Home Stories, p. 
22 .) 


THE GIRL AND THE CANNIBALS. 


145 


I k\v enzile intombi loko kambe, 
ukuba a z' a ti amazimu, uma e 
fumanisa udonga, a libale ukiikco- 
tsba, i ze i wa bone ; ngokuba 
y' azi intombi ukuti a za 'ku i 
landa. A i landa amazimu. A 
fumana udonga, a tola. Ya wa 
bona ngotuli, ya ti, " I wo lawaya." 
Ya tela udonga kakulu pan si ; ya 
hamba, ya hamba ngamand/da. A 
bka lapo i tele kona udonga, a 
kcotsba, a libala ; ya hamba ka- 
kulu ngamand/da. Ya bona futi 
ukuba a kgub' utuli ; y' enza njalo 
futi ; ya tel' udonga, ya hamba 
ngamand/ila. Ya bona ukuba a se 
seduze ; ya tela futi okokupela esi- 
gujini, ya hamba. 


it up . 70 The girl had done this, 
that the cannibals, when they 
found the sesamum, might stop to 
pick it up, that she might see 
them ; for the girl knew they 
would follow her. The cannibals 
followed her. They found the 
sesamum, and picked it up. She 
saw them coming by the dust, and 
said, " There they are yonder." 
She poured a large quantity of 
sesamum on the ground, and went 
on quickly. They came where she 
had poured the sesamum, they 
picked it up, and loitered; and 
she went with very great speed. 
Again she saw them raising the 
dust, and she did the same again ; 
she poured sesamum on the ground, 
and went on quickly. She saw 
that they were now near ; again 
she poured all that was in the 
calabash, and went on. 


She, being tired , ascends a high tree ; the cannibals come up to it, and 

sit at its foot. 


The cannibals were tired, and 
sat down. She went on ; but she 
was tired too. She saw a very 
high tree; it was a great tree. 
She went to it, and climbed into 
it, and sat on a bird's twig . 71 The 
cannibals arose and pursued their 
journey, she being now a great 
way off. They came to the tree ; 
they being now again tired, they 
sat down at the foot of the tree, 
resting and saying they would pre- 
sently pursue her again, when they 
had rested. 

70 The reader will remember numerous instances in the tales of other 

people, in which the pursued is represented as throwing something behind him 
to delay the pursuer. But in those tales the thing thrown down has some 
magical power, and becomes a lake, a forest, or a mountain of rock, to be over- 
come only by great physical strength. In this the appeal is made to a mere 
childish appetite. (The Pentamerone. " Petrosinella, " and "The Flea." — 
Tlioi'pe. Yule-tide Stories , p. 223. "Singorra." — Dasent. Op. cit., p. 91. 
" The Mastermaid." — Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. I., p. 33. " The Battle of the 

Birds."; 

71 Kweknyoni , viz., igaba, twig or branch. That is, she sat on the topmost 
twig. 


A katala amazimu, a /Jala pansi. 
Ya hamba; ya dinwa futi nayo. 
Ya bona umuti omude kakulu, 
umkulu. Ya hamba kuwo, ya 
kwela kuwo, ya h\ ala kwelenyoni. 
'Esuka amazimu, a hamba ; i s' i 
kude kakulu. A fika emtini, e se 
diniwe futi, a /Jala pansi kwawo, 
e pumula, e ti, a za 'kubuya a i 
lande futi, uma e se pumulile. 


146 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


They discover her , and try to cut down the tree. 


Kanti intombi ya i pete isitsha 
samanzi esi vuzayo ; sa vuzela pezu 
kwawo ; 'ezwa ku ti kco, kco. 'E- 
tuka, a ti, " Ku ini loko na ? " A 
bheka pezulu, a i bona intombi i 
Alezi kwelenyoni. E jabula, a u 
gaula umuti ngezimbazo, ngokuba 
a e zi pete izimbazo : a u gaula, 
amanye a Alala ngalapaya kwo- 
muti, amanye a Alala nganeno. 
Wa ti umuti lapo u s' u za 'kuwa, 
wa buya wa tengatenga, wa ti nya, 
wa ti gxh\i pansi, wa ba njenga- 
loko kad' u njalo. A pinda a gaula 
futi, amanye 'ema ngalapaya, ama- 
nye 'ema nganeno, amanye 'ema 
emakcaleni omabili. A u gaula ; 
wa ti lapo u s' u za 'kuwa, w' enza 
njalo futi, wa buya wa ti gccAli 
pansi, wa ba njengaloko kad' u 
njalo futi. A pinda a gaula futi ; 
kwa ti lapo u s' u za 'kuwa, wa 
buya wa ti gxh\i pansi, wa ba nje- 
ngaloko kad' u njalo futi. 


The girl was carrying a vessel 
of water, which leaked ; 72 it leaked 
upon the cannibals ; they heard a 
sound, " Kho ! kho! " They were 
frightened, and said, " What is 
that ?" 73 They looked up, and 
saw the girl sitting on the very 
top, on a mere bird's twig. They 
were glad, and began to cut down 
the tree with their axes, for they 
had axes in their hands : they 
hewed the tree, some standing on 
one side, and some on the other. 
When the tree was now about to 
fall, it worked backwards and for- 
wards, became still, and then sank 
down and became firm, and was 
just as it was at first. Again they 
hewed, some before and some be- 
hind, some on each side. They 
hewed it ; and when it was about 
to fall, it did the same again ; it 
settled down and became firm, and 
was again just as it was at first. 
Again they hewed ; and when it 
was about to fall, again it settled 
down and became firm, and was 
again just as it was at first. 


The maiden's brother has a dream , and goes to seek his sister. 


Umne wabo intombi wa e pu- 
pile ku si Aiwa intombazana, udade 
wabo, i dAliwa amazimu ngasen- 
daweni etile, a y aziyo. Kwa ti 
kusasa wa puma nezinja zake ezin- 
kulu kakulu, wa ya 'kuzingela 
ngalapo e be pupile ngakona. Wa 


The brother of the girl had 
dreamed in the night that the 
little girl, his sister, was being 
eaten by cannibals, near a certain 
place, which he knew. In the 
morning he went out, taking with 
him his very great dogs ; he went 
to hunt in the direction of the 
place of which he had dreamed. 


72 1 have ventured to make a slight alteration in this place. The original 
is, "Kwa ti intombi ya piswa umtondo, ya tunda pezu kwawo." Which, 
though not at all offensive to native notions of delicacy, I do not translate for 
English readers. 

73 Compare this with the tale of Fritz and Catherine, who had ascended a 
tree for safety. During the night some thieves came and sat at the foot of the 
tree. Catherine was carrying a bag of nuts, a bottle of vinegar, and a door. 
These were dropped one after another. The vinegar sprinkled them, and the 
door frightened them away. ( Grimm. Op. cit .) 


THE GIRL AND THE CANNIBALS. 


147 


ti e zingela wa bona isikamku sa- 
mazimu, si pansi kwomuti, si gaula 
umuti. Wa ya kona nezinja zake 
ezinkulu ; wa fika kona, wa ti, 
" Ni gaula ni lapa, bangane bami, 
na?" Ba ti, "Woza, u si gau- 
lise, 74 mfo wetu. Nansiya inya- 
mazane yetu, i pezulu." Wa bheka 
pezulu, wa bona ukuba udade 
wabo. Wa pel' amandAla. Wa 
ba ziba, wa ba gaulisa umuti. Wa 
linga kancinyane ukugaula, wa ti, 
" Ake si bem' uguai, bangane 
bami." Ba Alala pansi. Wa so- 
ndeza izinja zake eduze kwake. 
Wa kcataz' uguai, wa ba nika. 
Wa ti, lapo be bemayo, wa ba 
nika izinja zake, za ba bamba, za 
ba kasotsha, zi hamba zi ba bulala. 
Ba fa bonke. Kwa ku pela ke. 


He delivers his sister , and 

Wa tsko kudade wabo, wa ti, 
" Ye/da, mnta kababa." W' eh\ a, 
wa hamba nomne wabo, wa fika 
ekaya kunina. Unina wa m enzela 
ukudAla okukulu, e jabula. Wa 
7d aba izinkabi eziningi ; ba d/da 
bonke nayo indodakazi yake. 
Kwa sokuba ukupela ke. 
Ulutuli Dhladhla (Usetemba). 


As he was hunting he saw a crowd 
of cannibals under a tree, hewing 
the tree. He went to them with 
his great dogs ; he came to them, 
and said, " What are you hewing 
here, my friends?" They said, 
" Come and help us hew, our 
brother. There is our game on the 
top of the tree." He looked up, 
and saw that it was his sister. 
His heart sunk. He turned away 
their attention from his agitation, 
and helped them hew the tree. 
He tried very little to hew ; and 
then said, " Just let us take some 
snuff, my friends." They sat down. 
He made his dogs come to his side. 
He poured out some snuff, and 
gave them ; and when they were 
taking it, he set his dogs on them ; 
they laid hold of them, and drove 
them, the dogs running and killing 
them. They all died. So there 
is an end. 

they return home together . 

He said to his sister, " Come 
down, child of my father." She 
came down, and went with her 
brother, and came home to her 
mother. Her mother made her a 
great feast, with rejoicing. She 
slaughtered many oxen ; and all 
ate together with her daughter. 
So there is the end. 


ADDITION TO THE FOREGOING TALE BY ANOTHER NATIVE. 


The brother goes up the tree with his sister , and they find a beautiful 

country. 


Ku tiwa wa kwela nomfo wabo 
pezulu ; wa bona ilizwe eli/de 
kakulu. Ba fnnyanisa ku kona 
ind/du en/de kakulu ; leyo 'nd/du 


It is said, her brother also ascend- 
ed the tree, and saw a very beau- 
tiful country. 75 They found a very 
beautiful house there ; that house 


74 Oaulisa , help us to hew ; gaulela, hew for us. By the former they ask 
for co-operation in the labour ; by the latter they ask to have the work done for 
them. 

75 See Appendix at the end of this tale. 


148 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ya i luAlaza, pansi kungati i gii- 
dAliwe, nelizwe lakona pezulu la li 
liAle kakulu, be hamba kulona 
ngezikati zoiike, be li buka, ngo- 
kuba be li k^abuka. Kepa pansi 
ba be buka ku kucle kakulu, be 
nga se namandAla okweuka ukuya 
kona, ngokuba ba b' esaba ama- 
zimu, be ti, ba ya wa bona e ha- 
mba pansi e funa ukudAla. 


was green, and the floor was bur- 
nished ; and the country of the 
upper region was very beautiful ; 
they walked about there continu- 
ally, and looked at it, for they saw 
it for the first time. But the earth 
they saw was at a great distance 
below them ; they were no longer 
able to go down to it, for they 
feared the cannibals, thinking they 
saw them going about on the earth, 
seeking for food. 


They find an ox, which they kill and roast ; but are detected by the 

cannibals. 


Ba hamba ba ya ezweni eli 
pambili. Ba fika ba tola inkomo, 
inkabi enkulu ; ba i k^uba, ba ya 
nayo endAlini bobabili ; ba fika ba 
i Alaba leyo 'nkomo, ba Alinza isi- 
kumba, ba s' eneka elangeni ; sa ti 
si nga k' omi ba basa endAlini. 
Amazimu 'ezwa ulusi lwenyama 
ukunuka kwayo, a kgalaza, a bhe- 
ka pezulu, a i bona indAlu. Wa 
ti umfama, " Kungati leli 'zimu i 
Iona ela si krcotsha emAlabeni." 


I 

They set out, and went to the 
countiy in front of them. They 
at length found a bullock — a large 
ox ; they drove it, and went both 
of them to the house with it ; 
when they arrived they killed that 
bullock, and flayed it, and. spread 
the skin in the sun ; before it was 
dry they lit a fire in the house. 
The cannibals smelt the odour of 
the meat ; they looked hither and 
thither, they looked up, they saw 
the house. The youth said, " That 
cannibal is like the one who pur- 
sued us on the earth." 


They make a rope of the hide. 


Wa ti udade wabo, "A si li 
kupule li ze lapa kutina ; loku u 
nomkonto nje, li ya 'kwesaba uku 
si dAla ; ngokuba amazimu a ya 
w esaba umkonto." Wa ti umne 
wabo, " Si ya 'ku li kupula ngani 
na?" Wa ti udade wabo, "A 
ng' azi kuwena." Wa ti umne 
wabo, " A si benge isikumba, loku 
si se manzi nje, si li kupule ngawo 
umkcilo wesikumba." Wa e se 
puma endAlini nomkonto, wa be- 
nga isikumba sa ze sa ba siniugi 
kakulu, sa pela isikumba. 


The sister said, " Let us draw 
him up here to us ; since you have 
a spear he will be afraid to eat us ; 
for cannibals are afraid of a spear." 
Her brother said, "With what can 
we draw him up?" The sister 
said, "I do not know so well as 
you." The brother said, " Let us 
cut the skin into strips, since it is 
still moist, and draw him up by a 
rope of hide." He then went out 
of the house with his assagai, and 
cut the skin into strips, until it 
was very long, and the whole skin 
was cut up. 


THE GIRL AND THE CANNIBALS. 


149 


They devise a plan for drawing up a cannibal. 


Ba u tata umkcilo, ba u ponsa 
ubuningi bawo pansi, ba ti ezi- 
mwini, " Bamba umkcilo lowo, u 
kwele ngawo." La ti izimu, 
" Hau ! we mamo ! Ngi za 'kuwa 
uma ngi kwela ngomkcilo, ngo- 
kuba umncane ; u za 'ug^ushuka." 
Ba ti, " K^a ; a u z' 'ukgabuka ; 
si y' azi ukuba u lukuni. Kwela 
ke." Izimu la u bamba umkcilo, 
la kwela. Kepa lapa se li pakati 
emkatini na pezulu, ba ti be ku- 
luma bobabili, e ti umfana, "Asi 
li yeke, li we pansi." I ti into- 
mbazana, "A si li kwelise, li ze 
lapa kutina, si li /dupe, ngokuba 
nati a si Alupe." Wa ti, "Si za 
'ubuye si li kwelise futi." "Wa 
vuma ke udade wabo. Wa li yeka 
umne wabo izimu ; la wa pansi, la 
ti, " Maye ! Baba ! Nga fa ! Na 
, ti, ni za 7 u ngi bamba ngomkcilo ; 
se ni ngi yekile ; se ngi limele isi- 
nqv, nga wa ngaso." Wa ti umne 
wabo, " K<?a, zimu, a si ku yeka- 
nga ngamabomu ; ku punyukile 
umkcilo ; manje si za 'uponsa 
ok^inile kakulu umkcilo ; u bambe 
u k^inise." 


They took the rope, and threw 
down the greater portion of it to 
the earth, and said to the cannibal, 
" Lay hold of the rope, and climb 
up by it." He said, " Hau ! we 
mamo ! I shall fall if I climb by 
the rope, for it is small, and will 
break." They said, " No ! it will 
not break; we know that it is 
strong. So climb." The cannibal 
seized the rope, and climbed. But 
when he was midway, halfway be- 
tween above and below, they spoke 
each to the other, the youth say- 
ing, " Let us leave go of him, that 
he may fall down." The girl said, 
" Let us raise him, that he may 
come here to us, that we may 
harass him, for us too the cannibals 
have harassed." He replied, "We 
will raise him again." His sister 
agreed. The brother let go the 
cannibal ; he fell down, and cried, 
"Woe is me! Father! Dead! 
You said, you would hold me by 
the rope ; now you have let me 
go ; and my loins are now in- 
jured ; I fell on my loins." The 
brother said, "No, cannibal, we 
did not let you go on purpose ; 
the rope slipped ; now we are 
about to throw you a very strong 
rope ; catch hold of it firmly ." 76 


They tantalise the cannibal by eating in his presence. 


Nembala ke la u bamba izimu 
umkcilo, la kwela, ba li fikisa ku- 
bona pezulu, ba li beka end/dini, 


Surely then the cannibal caught 
hold of the rope, and climbed ; 
they raised him up to where they 
were, they placed him in the 


76 In Bleek's Hottentot Fables , the jackal plays the lion a similar trick. 
The jackal having built a tower for himself and family, and placed his food 
upon it to be out of the power of the lion, when the lion comes, he cries out, 
" Uncle, whilst you were away we have built a tower, in order to be better able 
to see game." "All right," says the lion; "but let me come up to you." 
"Certainly, dear uncle, but how will you manage to get up? We must let 
down a thong for you." The lion ties himself to the thong, and is drawn up ; 
and when he is nearly at the top the thong is cut by the jackal, who exclaims, 
" Oh, how heavy you are, uncle ! Go, wife, and fetch me a new thong." This 
is repeated several times. ( Op. cit., p. 7.) 


150 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ba ngena ; ba Mala b' osa inyama, 
imibengo ya mitatn. Wa ti umne 
wabo, " Se i vutiwe inyama ; a si 
d/de manje." Ba i tata ke inyama, 
ba i d/da. Izimu la ba bheka, la 
kconsa amate. Wa ti umne wabo, 
" Musa ukukconsa amate. Ngi za 
'u ku gwaza, loku u kconsa amate." 
Ba Zdala ke, ba i k^eda inyama. 


house, and went in ; they sat and 
roasted flesh, three strips. 77 The 
brother said, "The flesh is now 
ready ; let us eat it now." So 
they took the meat, and ate it. 
The cannibal looked at them ; his 
mouth watered. The brother said, 
" Do not allow your mouth to 
water. I will stab you, since your 
mouth waters." They sat and ate 
all the roasted meat. 


The cannibal is 'prevented from appeasing his hunger. 


Kwa ze kwa Aiwa ba lala. Izi- 
mu la lala ngaseziko, inyama ya i 
bekiwe eduze nomnyango ; bona 
be lele ngasenAla. Kwa ti ebu- 
suku izimu la vuka la nyonyoba, 
la ya la u tata umswani, la u k<?a- 
puna ngesand/da. Wa e se vuka 
udade wabo, e ti kumne wabo, 
"Vuka, vuka ! Nangu e se k<?a- 
puna umswani." Wa ti umne 
wabo, " U kgutshunywa ubani 
naP' Wa ti udade wabo, "U 
k^atshunywa izimu." Wa e se 
vuka ke umne wabo ngamandAla, 
e ti, " Beka, beka umswani wen- 
komo yami. U u nikwe ubani 
na 1 " La ti, " Ai, tina, nkos' ; 
be ngi ti, a ku si wo owako ; be 
ngi ti, u za 'u u kcita." Wa ti, 
" U beke masinya. Ngi nga ku 
gwaza." La u beka ke izimu um- 
swani. Ba lala. 


When it was dark they lay 
down. The cannibal lay near the 
fireplace ; the flesh had been placed 
near the doorway, and they lay at 
the upper part of the house. In 
the night the cannibal awoke, and 
went stealthily, and took a hand- 
ful of the contents of the ox's 
stomach. The sister awoke, say- 
ing to her brother, " Awake, 
awake ! There is some one taking 
handfuls of the contents of the 
ox's stomach." The brother said, 
" By whom is it being taken ? " 
The sister said, " By the cannibal." 
The brother then awoke at once, 
saying, " Put down, put down the 
contents of the stomach of my 
bullock. Who gave it to you 1 " 
He said, "No, indeed, my lord; 
I thought it was not yours ; 
I thought you were going to 
throw it away." He said, " Put 
it down at once. I could stab 
you." The cannibal put it down. 
They slept. 


The cannibal dies. 


Kwa sa. Ba /Jala insuku ezi- 
ningi, be i dMa inyama. Izimu 
be nga li niki 'luto. Amatambo 
be wa ponsa ngapansi ; be li lindile 
izimu ukuba li nga kcotshi 'luto 


The day dawned. They tarried 
many days, eating the meat. As 
for the cannibal, they gave him 
nothing. The bones they cast 
down to the earth ; they watched 
the cannibal, lest he should pick 


77 The natives cut their meat into long strips, and griddle them on the fire. 


THE GIRL AND THE CANNIBALS. 


151 


pansi. La hi ala ke izimu li fa 
ind/dala. Kwa ti ebusuku la fa. 
Ba lala be nga li boni. Kwa ti 
kusasa ba viika ba bona ukuba se 
li file. Ba li la/da ngapansi. 


up something from the ground. 
So the cannibal remained dying of 
famine. It happened during the 
night that he died. They were 
asleep, and did not see him die. 
In the morning when they awoke 
they saw that he was already dead. 
They cast him to the earth. 


The sister proposes that they shall go down from the tree and seek 

their sister. 


Wa ti udade wabo, " A si ha- 
mbe si fune udade wetu, loku uma 
wa e si tshela e ti, u kona udade 
wetu omunye owendileyo. A si m 
fune ke, si ze si m tole ; si /dale 
kuyena, loku se ba fa obaba noma, 
se si sobabili nje." Wa ti umne 
wabo, " Uma s' e/de — Ai ! a si 'ku 
wa bona ini amazimu na 1 " Wa 
ti udade wabo, " Loku se sa /dala 
lapa isikati eside kangaka, u ti a 
se kona amazimu na 1 ?" Wa ti 
umne wabo, " A si hambe ke s' e- 
/dike, si ye 'ku m funa." 


The sister said, "Let us go and 
look for our sister, for our mother 
used to tell us that there is an- 
other sister of ours who is married. 
Let us seek her until we find her, 
and live with her, since our fathers 
and mothers are dead, and there 
are now we two only." Her 
brother said, " When we have 
gone down — No ! shall we not see 
the cannibals 1 " The sister re- 
plied, " Since we have now staid 
here so long a time, do you think 
the cannibals are still there 1 ?" 
The brother said, " Let us set out 
then, and descend, and go and 
seek her." 


They find their sister , and live with her in peace. 


Ba tata umkcilo owa u sele ku- 
leyo a ba be kwelisa ngayo izimu ; 
ba u kcwilisa emanzini, wa tamba. 
Ba ti emini ba funa ukuni olukulu, 
ba lu mbela pansi, lwa tshona ka- 
kulu, ba tekelezela umkcilo Iona 
ugongolo ; ba se b' euka ngawo 
umkcilo ba ze ba fika pansi. Ba 
u shiya ke umkcilo u lenga ogo- 
ngolweni. Ba hamba ba dAlula 
ematanjeni alelo 'zimu ela fayo. 
Ba d/dula ba hamba ba funa udade 
wabo ; ba hamba inyanga ya ze ya 


They took the rope which was 
left with which they raised the 
cannibal ; they soaked it in water 
until it was softened. And during 
the day they sought a large log, 
and fixed it in the ground ; it 
went in very deep ; they fastened 
the rope to the log, and descended 
by the rope until they reached the 
ground. So they left the rope 
hanging from the log. They set 
out, and passed the bones of the 
cannibal which had died. They 
went on and sought their sister ; 
they travelled until that moon 


v 


152 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


fa be nga m boni. Kwa ti lapa se 
ku twasa enye inyanga ba m tola. 
Ba fika ba m bona udade wabo, 
kodwa ba be nga m azi igama lake 
uma nbani. Wa ba bona yena, 
wa ba biza ngamagama abo, wa ti, 
" Songati abantwana bakwetu la- 
ba." Wa vuma. Wa ti, " Ni 
vela ngapi na?" Ba ti, "Kade 
s' a/dukana naobaba noma. Kepa 
sa si /dutshwa amazimu. Si vela 
ezweni eli/de pezulu e sa si /dezi 
kulona, si nga /dutsliwa 'luto. Sa 
ze sa li kwelisa elinye izimu, sa li 
/dupa nati; sa ze sa li ncitsha 
ukud/da, la fa, sa li laAla ; s' e/dika 
ke ukuyo'ufuna wena, Si ya ja- 
bula se si ku tolile." 


Ba /dala ka/de bobatatu kuleyo 
'ndawo. 

UsKEBE NGUBANE, 
(Lydia, Umkasetemba.) 


died, without finding her. But 
when another new moon came 
they found her. When they ar- 
rived they saw their sister, but 
they did not know her name. She 
saw them, and called them by 
their names, saying, " These are 
like our children." They assented. 
She said, " Whence come you ? " 
They replied, " Long ago we sepa- 
rated from our fathers and mo- 
thers. But we were troubled 
much by the cannibals. We are 
now come from a beautiful country 
above, where we tarried without 
any trouble. We raised a cannibal, 
and we too harassed him ; we re- 
fused to give him food ; he died ; 
and we cast him out : then we 
descended to go and seek you. 
We are happy now we have found 
you." 

All three lived in peace at that 
place. 


APPENDIX. 

THE HEAVEN-COUNTRY. 

Uba.ni o nga pot ' igode lolcukupuka a ye ezulwini? "Who can plait a rope 
for ascending that he may go to heaven ? " — It is remarkable that with this na- 
tive saying to express an utter impossibility, there should also be found the 
legend of an ascent to heaven by a tree, so common in various parts of the 
world. Like other unadvanced people the Zulus think that the heaven is at no 
great distance above the earth. Utshaka claimed to be king of heaven as well 
as of earth ; and ordered the rain-doctors to be killed because, in assuming 
power to control the weather, they were interfering with his royal prerogative. 
These doctors have medicines and other means by which they imagine or pre- 
tend that they are able to influence the heaven, bring rain, repel a storm, send 
the lightning-stroke to kill an enemy, or circle a kraal with an influence which 
shall protect it from its fatal power. 

In the Polynesian Mythology we read of a tree whose tendrils reached the 
earth, and by which it was possible to ascend to heaven. By these tendrils 
Tawhaki ascended to heaven to seek Tango-tango. (Grey. Op. cit., p. 71.) 
Rupe too ascends to the tenth heaven, it is not clear by what means, breaking 
through heaven after heaven, as though they were solid roofs overlaying each 
other. (Id., p. 83.) In the Zulu legend the floor of the heavenly house is 
burnished. Tylor, in his interesting work, Researches into the Early History of 
Mankind, has collected from different sources various legends of this kind. 
There is Chakabech, who ascended with his sister by a tree to heaven, and 
found a beautiful country (p. 342. j And Chapewee, who "stuck a piece of 
wood into the earth, which became a fir-tree, and grew with amazing rapidity, 


THE HEAVEN-COUNTRY. 


153 


until its top reached the sky." By this tree he reached the stars, and found a 
firm plain and a beaten road by which the sun pursued his daily journey (p. 
343 ). These legends are from America. In the Malay Island of Celebes there 
is found the legend of Utahagi, who, like Tawhaki, had married a daughter of 
heaven and been forsaken by her, and ascended to heaven in search of her, by 
rattans ( p . 347,). We have in our own Nursery Tales "Jack and the Bean- 
stalk." In connection with these myths we may remember too those of the 
American Indians. Nokomis was swinging in a swing of grape-vines in the 
moon ; her companions severed the vine, and she fell to the earth, where she 
gave birth to Hiawatha's mother. And Osseo, who descended from the evening 


star, 


" Once, in days no more remembered, 
Ages nearer the beginning, 

When the heavens were closer to us," 


was together with several others, by the power of magic, again raised to the 
evening star, to descend again to earth when the spell was broken. 

In a Dayak tale Si Jura ascends by a large fruit tree, the root of which was 
in the sky, and its branches, hanging down, touched the waters, and reaches the 
country of the Pleiades. He there obtains the seed of three' kinds of rice, with 
which he returns to be a blessing to mankind. But in the beautiful myth of 
Mondamin — the Spirits' grain, Mondamin descends from heaven in the form of 
a beautiful youth to fight with Hiawatha, and to be overcome by him ; that 
from his body, when buried, there might spring up the magic-plant. 

In other legends we have the account of an ascent from regions under the 
earth to its surface. In that of the Mandans this was effected by a grape-vine. 
In the Zulu legend, to be given hereafter, the ascent is mentioned, but not the 
means. 

Then in the mythology of the North we have " Yggdrasil, the largest and 
best of trees ; its branches spread themselves over the whole world, and tower 
up above the heavens." (Thorpe. Northern Mythology. Vol. I., p. 13.) 
Amd should "the mythic Yggdrasil have been to the men of remote ages the 
symbol of ever-enduring time," (Mallet's Northern Antiquities, p. 493, ) and of 
a strictly spiritual significance, it yet might be that which suggested the various 
legends, which have become mere senseless children's tales in different parts of 
the world. Or all may have had a common origin in some older tradition now 
lost for ever. 

But, as Tylor says, "it must be remembered in discussing such tales, that 
the idea of climbing, for instance, from earth to heaven by a tree, fantastic as 
it may seem to a civilized man of modem times, is in a different grade of culture 
quite a simple and natural idea, and too much stress must not be laid on bare 
coincidences to this effect in proving a common origin for the stories which con- 
tain them, unless closer evidence is forthcoming. Such tales belong to a rude 
and primitive state of knowledge of the earth's surface, and what lies above and 
below it. The earth is a flat plain surrounded by the sea, and the sky forms a 
roof on which the sun, moon, and stars travel. The Polynesians, who thought, 
like so many other peoples, ancient and modem, that the sky descended at the 
horizon and enclosed the earth, still call foreigners papalangi, or 'heaven- 
bursters,' as having broken in from another world outside. The sky is to most 
savages what it is called in a South American language, mumeselce , that is, the 
' earth on high. ' There are holes or windows through this roof or firmament, 
where the rain comes through, and if you climb high enough you can get 
through and visit the dwellers above, who look, and talk, and live very much in 
the same way as the people upon earth. As above the flat earth, so below it, 
there are regions inhabited by men or man-like creatures, who sometimes come 
up to the surface, and sometimes are visited by the inhabitants of the upper 
earth. We live as it were upon the ground floor of a great house, with upper 
storeys rising one over another above us, and cellars down below. " ( Op. cit . , 
p. 34Q.) 

The Arabs believe that there " are Seven Heavens, one above another, and 
Seven Earths, one beneath another ; the earth which we inhabit being the 
highest of the latter and next below the lowest heaven." (Lanefs Arabian 
Nights. Vol. p. 18 J 


154 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


IJMBADHLANYANA AND THE CANNIBAL. 


Kwa ku kona umfana igama lake 
UmbadManyana kamakgnbata ; 
wa ti e se mncane wa tanda uku- 
zingela izinyamazane. Kwa ti 
ngesinye isikati U mbad/danyana 
wa bamba wa ya 'uzingela, wa 
bulala ukcilo ; wa ti lapa e sa 
bamba e m pete ukcilo, wa bona 
ku vela amazimu amaningi : a m 
hhakga pakati, a ti, " Sa 'u bona, 
mbad/danyana kamakgubata." Wa 
vuma. Kwa ti 'emi pakati kwawo 
amazimu, Y esuka elinye izimu, la 
tata ukcilo, la mu dAla. Kwa ti 
lapa se li mu dAlile ukcilo izimu, 
U mbad Alanyana wa finyela, wa ba 
mfutsbane, wa ziponsa emakaleni 
ezimu. La ti izimu, " Tbi, mba- 
d/danyana, puma ; ukcilo owako." 
Wa ti UmbadManyana, e kuluma 
pakati emakaleni ezimu, wa ti, 
"Be kw enzelwa ni ukuba ku 
dAliwe ukcilo wami, ku buye ku 
tiwe ku za 'udAliwa nami 1 Na- 
nto 83 ebnye, fikci." La pinda izi- 
mu la timula ngamandAla, la ti, 
"Thi,mbad/danyana, puma; ukcilo 


There was a boy whose name was 
IJmbadhlanyana, 78 the son of U- 
makgubata ; 79 when be was a child 
be liked to bunt game. On one 
occasion IJmbadhlanyana went to 
bunt, and killed an ukcilo; 80 as 
he was going along carrying the 
ukcilo, be saw many cannibals 
make their appearance : they en- 
closed him in the midst of them, and 
said, " Good day, Umbadhlanya- 
na Kamakgubata." 81 He saluted 
in return. As he was standing in 
the midst of the cannibals, one of 
them took away the ukcilo, and 
ate it. When the cannibal had 
eaten the ukcilo, IJmbadhlanyana 
contracted himself and became 
short, and threw himself into the 
nostrils 82 of the cannibal. The can- 
nibal sneezed, and said, "Come 
out, IJmbadhlanyana ; the ukcilo 
is yours." IJmbadhlanyana an- 
swered, speaking in the nostrils of 
the cannibal, " Why did you eat 
my ukcilo, and then say you would 
eat me too ? There is another mor- 
sel, which will quite fill you." The 
cannibal sneezed again violently, 
and said, " Come out, Umbadhla- 


78 Umbadhlanyana. — The meaning of this word is not clear ; but it implies 
a small person, a dwarf. It reminds us of the term imbatshelana applied to 
Uthlakanyana (p. 3). 

79 Umakqubata. — UTcuti kqu-kxpi-hpi is applied to the mode in which a short 
person, incapable of making strides, runs, viz., by a succession of short rapid 
steps. Umakqubata is a man who runs in this way. 

80 Ukcilo is a very small bird. There are three very small birds, the incete, 
the intiyane, and the ukcilo ; this last is the smallest, about the size of the 
humble bee. 

81 Ka-makgubata, the son of Umakgubata ; the ka is equivalent to Mac, or 
O', as in MacGregor, O'Connor. 

82 In the tales from the Norse Thumbikin hides himself from his mother in 
the horse's nostril. (Dasent, p. 430 .) 

83 Nanto , not nanti ; that is, Umbad/danyana speaks as though he was a 
great way off from the cannibal. Elinye, that is, ikgata, a slice of meat. 
Ukuti Jikcij to fill up entirely. 


CANNIBALS. 


155 


owako." Wati, " Be kw enzelwa 
ni uma ku dAliwe ukcilo wami ; 
ku buye ku tiwe ku za 'ud/diwa 
nami? Nanto elinye, fikci." 

Lapo amazimu onke, lapa e se 
bona U mbadAlanyana e se ngene 
emakaleni ezimu, a baleka onke ; 
wa sale wa puma U mbadAlanyana 
emakaleni ezimu ; la fa. 

UmbadAlanyana kamak^nbata. 
Umakgnbatshana. Uma-'sila-'kugi- 
j ima-u-gij imisa-'kufana. Ingataba- 
kazana-owa-bukca-amatulwa-wa-ni- 
ka-umnguni. Inyatikazi-e-netole. 
Usomzinza-ngotwane-ubakazi - ye- 
na-umfo-a-nga-i-zinza-na ? 

Lydia, (Umkasetemba.) 


nyana ; the ukcilo is yours." He 
replied, "Why did you eat my 
ukcilo, and then say you would eat 
me 1 There is another morsel, 
which will quite fill you." 

Then all the cannibals, when 
they saw that Umbadhlanyana had 
gone into the nostrils of the can- 
nibal, fled ; and then Umbadhla- 
nyana came out of his nostrils, and 
the cannibal died. 

Umbadhlanyana kamakgubata. 
U makgubatshana. 84 Uma-'sila- 

'kugijima -u -gijimisa - 'kufana. I- 
ngataba-kazana-o wa - bukca - amatu- 
lwa-wa-nika-umnguni. Inyatikazi- 
e-netole. U somzinza - ngotwane - 

ubakazi -yena - umfo - a- nga - i -zinza- 
I na 1 85 


AMAZIMU. 

(cannibals.) 


Ng' azi kodwa ukuba ku tiwa, 
Amazimu a Alubuka abanye aba- 
ntu, a ye 'kuAlala entabeni. Ngo- 
kuba kukgala Amazimu a e ng' a- 
bantu. Kwa kcitek' izwe; kwa 
kona indAlala enkulu ; ba tanda 
ukud/da abanye abantu ngobunzi- 
ma bend/dala. Kwa ti ind/dala 
inkulu, abantu be dinga, ku nge 
ko indawo a ba nga tola ukud/da 


All I know is, that it is said that 
the Amazimu deserted other men 
and went to live in the mountains. 
For at first the Amazimu were 
men. The country was desolate ; 
there was a great famine; and 
they wished to eat men because of 
the severity of the famine. When 
the famine was great, and men 
were in want and there was no 
place where they could obtain food, 


84 U makqubatshana . — As Umakr/ubata means the small, rapid stepper, so 
Umakgubatshana is a diminutive of this word, meaning a very small, rapid 
stepper, — the Little Umakgubata. Uma-'$ila-kugijima-u-gijimisa- kufana, 
' ' When-he-escapes-by-running-he-runs-as-though-he-would-die. " Inqaiaba-ka- 
zana-owa-bukca-amatulwa-wa-nika-umnguni, * ' Little-strong-one-the-son-of-the- 
little-one-who-mixed-together-wild-medlars-and-gave-umnguni." Inyatikazi-e- 
netole, " Buffalo-cow-with-a-calf." Usomzinza-ngotwane-ubakazi-yena-umfo-a- 
nga-i-zinza-na ? "Chief-of-dancers-with-a-rod-(viz., at an ijadu) can-any-stranger- 
handle-the-dancing-rod-like-him ? Umnguni is a name applied to the Zulus ; it 
is also given to the Amakxosa. 

85 We may judge from this string of epithets ( izibongo , praise-giving names) 
that we have here but a small fragment of the life and adventures of Umba- 
dhlanyana. If we knew them all, he would be found probably to rival or even 
surpass our old friend Uthlakanyana. 


156 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kuyo, ba k^ala ukubamba abanye 
abantu, ba ba d/da ke. Kwa so 
ku tiwa ukubizwa kwabo, kwa 
tiwa Amazimu ; ngokuba leli 'zwi 
lamazimu, ukukumusha kwalo, ku 
ukuhliula, ukuminza. A Alubuka 
ke abantu, a tanda ukud/da aba- 
ntu. Uku/dubuka kwawo kambe 
a shiya abantu, a d/da abantu; a 
kccotshwa abantu. A hamba ezin- 
daweni zonke, a hamba e funa 
abantu ; kwa so ku tiwa isizwe 
esinye, ngokuba abantu ba ba 
izinyamazane kuwo. Ka wa b' e 
sa lima ; ka wa b' e sa ba nanko- 
mo, ka wa b' e sa ba nazind/du, ka 
wa b' e sa ba nazimvu, ka wa b' e 
sa ba nazinto zonke a e nazo e se 
ng' abantu. A hamba e Mala 
emhumeni. A ti a nga fumana 
umhume, be se ku ba ind/du yawo 
leyo, e se ya 'kuzingela abantu. A 
ti a nga tola umuntu, e be se ya 
emhumeni ; a buya a u shiye futi 
lowo 'inhume, a hamba e funisisa 
abantu. A nga bi nandawo. 
Uma e nga ba toli abantu, a 
hambe njalo, e be suka a funa 
abantu. 

A ti a nga m bona umuntu e 
hamba yedwa, e be se ya kuye, a m 
yenge, a zitshaye o nomsa, a m 
pate ka/de, a kulume ka/de naye ; 
ku nga ti ka z' ukwenza 'luto. A 
ti umuntu lapo e se libele e ng' azi 
'luto, e ti abantu abamnene nje, a 
b' e se m bamba : a ti ingabe wo- 
namand/da, a lwe nawo, um/da- 
umbe a wa kasotshe ; m/daumbe a 
m a/dule, a m tate, a b' e se a ya 
'ku mu d/da. A buy' a zingele 
njalo ; ngezikati zonke ku i wona 
umsebenzi wawo ukuzingela. 


they began to lay hold of men, 
ancl to eat them. And so they 
were called Amazimu ; for the 
word Amazimu when interpreted 
means to gormandise, — to be glut- 
tonous. So they rebelled against 
men ; they forsook them, and liked 
to eat them ; and men drove them 
away. They went everywhere 
seeking men for food, and so they 
were regarded as a distinct nation, 
for with them men became game. 
They no longer cultivated the soil ; 
they no longer had cattle or houses 
or sheep, nor any of those things 
which they had had whilst they 
were men. They went and lived 
in dens. When they found a cave, 
it became their dwelling place, 
whilst they went to hunt men. If 
they caught a man, they went to 
the cave ; again they left it, to go 
and hunt men. They had no fixed 
habitation. If they did not catch 
a man, they were constantly on 
the move, going about hunting for 
men. 


If they saw a man going alone, 
they went to him ; they decoyed 
him, and made themselves out 
merciful people ; they treated him 
kindly, and spoke gently with 
him ; and appeared incapable of 
doing any evil. When the man 
was thus beguiled and entirely 
unsuspicious, regarding them as 
pleasant people only, they ^ould 
then lay hold of him : 86 if he was 
a powerful man, he might fight 
with them, and perhaps drive them 
off ; or they might overcome him, 
and carry him away to eat him. 
Again they hunted ; at all times 
their occupation was to hunt. 


S6 How exactly this description corresponds with that given of the way in 
which the Thugs decoy their victims. 


CANNIBALS. 


157 


Ku ti uma e ba bona abantu, 
noma baningi, umAlaumbe ba ya 
w' azi ; ba ti ba nga bona Ama- 
zimu e za kubo, ba kgale uku- 
lungisa izikali zabo : Amazimu 
ingabe maningi, a ti Ale ; abantu 
nabo be se ti Ale, b' enza uAla. Be 
se be sondelana, Amazimu e se 
sondela nawo ; kodwa abantu be 
sondela ngezibindi ezikulu, ngo- 
kuba ba y' azi ukuba Amazimu 
abantu aba namandAla kakulu, ba 
lwe. Ingabe ba lwe, umAlaumbe 
ba nga lwi ; ba baleke abantu ngo- 
kubuka nje kodwa, ngokuba Ama- 
zimu a e sabeka. Abanye aba 
nezibindi ba lwe nawo, umAlaumbe 
ba wa kicotshe Amazimu, a baleke, 
a ba shiye, ngokuba Amazimu 
abantu aba namajubane kakulu, 
ba nga lw enzi 'luto, ba wa yeke. 


A buye a zingele njalo, a Ala- 
ngane nabanye : a ti a nga Ala- 
ngana nabanye, ba ti ba nga bona 
ukuba Amazimu, ba baleke, a ba 
k#otshe wona, a z' a ba fumane ; a 
ti a nga ba fumana, a ba bambe. 
Abanye ba kcatshe, a nga ba boni. 
A ti a m bonileyo, uma e nga kca- 
tshanga, ku be kudekude naye, a 
m kccotsha njalo, a z' a katale. 
Ngokuba uma umuntu e nga kca- 
tshanga, e pika ngokugijima nje, 
a m kccotshe a z' a m fumane, ngo- 
kuba wona a y 5 epuza ukukatala. 
A b' e se m twala, a hambe naye, 
e funa indawo esiteleyo kubantu 
eAlane ; e be se fika, a m peke, a 
mu dAle. 


When they saw many men, per- 
haps the men recognised them, 
and when they saw the Amazimu 
coming to them they began to pre- 
pare their weapons : if the Ama- 
zimu were numerous they threw 
themselves into line ; and the men 
too threw themselves into line, 
forming a row. Then they drew 
near to each other, the Amazimu 
too drawing near; but the men 
drew near with great courage , 87 for 
they knew that the Amazimu were 
very powerful men and fought. 
Perhaps they fight, perhaps they 
do ,not fight ; but the men run 
away on casting one glance at them, 
for the Amazimu were terrible. 
Some who are brave may fight 
with them, and perhaps beat 
them; they then run away, and 
leave the men behind, for the 
Amazimu were very swift ; and 
the men can do nothing, and give 
over the pursuit. 

Again the Amazimu hunt and 
fall in with other men : when they 
fall in with them, perhaps they see 
that they are Amazimu, and run 
away, and the Amazimu pursue 
them, until they overtake them ; 
when they overtake them they lay 
hold of them. Others hide them- 
selves, and they do not see them. 
If they have caught sight of a man 
who has not hid himself, he must 
run a great distance, they pursuing 
him till he is tired. For if a man 
does not hide himself, but contends 
with them by running only, they 
pursue him till they overtake him, 
for they do not readily tire. Then 
they carry him away with them, 
seeking a place concealed from 
men in the wilderness ; when they 
come to such a place, they boil 
and eat him. 


87 That is, it required very great courage to think of fighting them. 


158 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


I loko ke e ngi kw aziyo e ngi 
ku zwile ngab' azi 'nsumansumane. 

Ulutuli Dhladhla (Usetemba). 


This then is what I know by 
hearsay from those who are ac- 
quainted with legends. 


APPENDIX. 

CANNIBALISM. 

It is a common opinion among the natives of these parts, that cannibalism was 
introduced at a comparatively recent period, having arisen in times of famine. 
Arbousset found this notion prevalent among tribes in immediate contact with 
the Marimo or Bechuana cannibals. ( South Africa , p. 88.) He speaks of can- 
nibalism as having been formerly " one of the most active causes of depopula- 
tion " (p. 91 ) ; but adds that now (1852) " it is only in secret that they indulge 
their taste for human flesh." We do not know on what kind of evidence such 
statements are founded. The Marimo, like the cannibals of the Zulu legends 
and those who are said once to have infested Natal, speak of men as "game." 

There are various forms in which cannibalism is said to be practised by the 
savages of Africa. Some eat their own dead, as the Amanganja on the Shire. 
In allusion to some such custom Purchas remarks: — "The Grecians burned 
their dead Parents, the Indians intombed them in their owne bowels." 
Others sell their dead to neighbouring tribes as an article of food, and purchase 
their dead in return. In times of famine they are said to adopt the system of 
buying the people of other tribes with their own wives and children, to gratify 
their craving for human flesh. Some eat "witches condemned to death"; 
others object to such food on the ground of its "being unwholesome." Others 
devour only prisoners of war, as an indication of savage triumph ; this probably 
is the most common form of cannibalism. Besides these there are said to be 
others who may be regarded as professional cannibals, who look upon men gene- 
rally as their game, and hunt them as they would any other game. ( Savage 
Africa. Winwood Read , p. 156, &-c. — Explorations and Adventures in Equa- 
torial Africa. Du Chaillu, pp. 84, 88. ^ 

Herodotus alludes to another form of cannibalism : — "Eastward of these 
Indians are another tribe, called Padseans, who are wanderers, and live on raw 
flesh. This tribe is said to have the following customs : — If one of their num- 
ber be ill, man or woman, they take the sick person, and if he be a man, the 
men of his acquaintance proceed to put him to death, because, they say, his 
flesh would be spoilt for them if he pined and wasted away with sickness. The 
man protests he is not ill in the least ; but his friends will not accept his denial 
— in spite of all he can say, they kill him, and feast themselves on his body. 
So also if a woman be sick, the women, who are her friends, take her and do 
•with her exactly the same as the men. If one of them reaches to old age, qfiout 
which there is seldom any question, as commonly before that time they have 
had some disease or other, and so have been put to death — but if a man, not- 
withstanding, comes to be old, then they offer him in sacrifice to their gods, and 
afterwards eat his flesh." (Rawlinson's Herodotus. Vol. II., p. 4:07.) 

Winwood Bead suggests that cannibalism might be "a partial extension of 
the sacrificial ceremony." (Op. cit., p. 158.,) And it seems by no means im- 
probable that it had, in some instances, its origin in human sacrifices. It is 
•worth noting that the Zulu-Kafir considers it as unnatural, and that those who 
practise it have ceased to be men. They distinguish, too, between the man who 
has eaten human flesh from necessity in time of famine, and the cannibal 
proper. 

One cannot, however, avoid the belief that there is, and always has been, 
very much exaggeration in the accounts of cannibalism. It is perfectly clear 
that the cannibals of the Zulu legends are not common men ; they are magnified 
into giants and magicians ; they are remarkably swift and enduring ; fierce and 


CANNIBALISM. 


159 


terrible warriors. They are also called "long-haired." This would make it 
appear probable that the cannibals which once infested Southern Africa were 
not natives of these parts, but people of some' other country. The Fans, the 
mountain cannibals of Western Africa, are said to have longer and thicker hair 
than the coast tribes. Their hair is said by Burton to hang down to then- 
shoulders ; but it is still woolly. (Winwood Read , p. 144. — Du ChaUlu, p. 69. 
— Captain Burton. Anthropological Review , p. 237. ) The hair of the Fulalis 
or Fellatahs is said to be "more or less straight, and often very fine." (Types 
of Mankind. Nott and Gleddon, p. 188.,) Again Barth mentions seeing at 
Erarar-n-sakan, near Agades, a long-haired race, which he thus describes : — 

" They were very tall men with broad, coarse features, very different from 
any I have seen before, and with long hair hanging down upon their shoulders, 
and over their faces, in a way that is an abomination to the Tawarek ; but upon 
enquiry I learnt that they belonged to the tribe of Ighdalen or Eghedal, a very 
curious mixed tribe of Berbe and Soughay blood, and speaking the Soughay 
language." ( Travels in Central Africa. Vol. /., p. 404.,) 

But none of these can be considered as answering to the description of long- 
haired as given in the Zulu legends of cannibals ; neither could they possibly 
have formed their historical basis. Indeed, at the present time we occasionally 
meet with natives with long hair reaching to the shoulders, or standing out 
from six to nine inches, like a fan, from the head. It may be worth while to 
compare with the Zulu legends those of the Scotch Highlands, where we have 
accounts of Gruagachs, that is "long-haired," gigantic magicians and cannibals, 
who play a somewhat similar part to the long-haired Amazimu of South Africa. 
(Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. /., p. 1. Vol. II. , pp. 186, 188.,) 

It is probable that the native accounts of cannibals are, for the most part, 
the traditional record of incursions of foreign slave-hunters. The whites are 
supposed to be cannibals by the Western Africans, because they hunt and buy 
slaves. (Winwood Read , p. 160.,) And even though the object for which 
slaves are purchased by the whiteman may be well understood, yet the use of 
"eat" every where among Africans for the purpose of expressing to waste 
utterly , and which across the Atlantic, in the elegant slang of the backwoods, is 
translated by " chaw up," would very naturally give rise to the notion of men- 
eaters. Bead relates that a slave just brought from the interior, after gazing 
on h im intently for some time, asked, " And are these the men that eat us ? " 
Which he supposes to intimate a belief that white men are cannibals ; but the 
native might have meant nothing more than that they were a wasting and de- 
stroying people. It is when different tribes come into contact, and the superior 
is continually driving further and further back, and straitening more and 
more the feebler one, that legends of this kind spring up. A few years ago in 
Natal the children were frightened by being told that the whitemen would eat 
them ; and no doubt they are still used to the present time, in retired places, as 
nursery bogies. And should the whiteman cease to be an occupant of Natal, 
there would be legends of men-eating, long-haired, gigantic, flying whitemen, 
magicians, and wizards told around the hut-fires of the next generation. To 
the savage the arts and habits of the whiteman appear to be magical ; and his 
adroitness and skill are supposed to be the result of spells. 

But it is not only the savage who imagines that the superior which is op- 
posing him is a cannibal ; but the superior has his mind filled with a similar 
dread of the savage neighbour whom he is oppressing, and who is destined to 
disappear before his steadily advancing progress. The Ancients had their An- 
thropophagi. And European travellers have so generally ascribed cannibalism to 
savages, that a cannibal and a savage are all but convertible terms in the minds 
of many. 

We may refer, for instance, to a passage in the Arabian Nights , in "The Story 
of Ghanim, the Son of Eiyoob." The black slave says to another, " How small 
is your sense ! Know ye not that the owners of the gardens go forth from 
Baghdad and repair hither, and, evening overtaking them, repair to this place, 
and shut the door upon themselves, through fear, lest the blacks, like ourselves, 

w 


160 


1ZINGANEKWANE. 


should take them and roast them and eat them ? " Upon which Lane remarks 
in the note : — "I am not sure that this is to be understood as a jest ; for I have 
been assured by a slave-dealer, and other persons in Cairo, that sometimes 
slaves brought to that city are found to be cannibals ; and that a proof lately 
Occurred there, an infant having been eaten by a black nurse. I was also told 
that the cannibals are generally distinguished by an elongation of the os coccy- 
gis ; or, in other words, that they have tails ! " 

We find from Willis' Pencilling s by the Way that Turkish children are 
taught to believe that the Franks are cannibals. He relates the following anec- 
dote : — " ' Hush, my rose ! ' said the Assyrian slave, who was leading a Turkish 
child, ' these are good Franks ; these are not the Franks that eat children. 
Hush ! ' " A relic this possibly of traditions of the times when European war- 
riors, under the banners of the Cross, strove to wrest the Holy Sepulchre from 
the possession of the Saracens. Accompanying the army of the Crusaders, led 
by Cceur de Lion, there was a body of unarmed fanatics, who were known by 
the name of Thafurs. The Saracens, being possessed with the idea that they 
fed on the dead bodies of their enemies, which the Thafurs took care to encou- 
rage, regarded them with the greatest horror, and dreaded them even more than 
they did the armed knights. Hence probably arose the tradition of the canni- 
balism of Richard himself, which is preserved in Ellis's Specimens of Early 
English Metrical Romances. The Rhymster tells us that a deputation was sent 
by Saladin to offer immense treasure for the ransom of prisoners. Richard told 
the ambassadors that he needed not their treasures, and added, 

" But for my love I you bid 
To meat with me that ye dwell ; 

And afterward I shall you tell." 

The first course consisted of boiled Saracens' heads , which were served up having 
affixed to them the names of the prisoners who had been slain for the horrible 
feast. Richard, " without the slightest change of countenance, swallowed the 
morsels as fast as they could be supplied by the knight who carved them." 

" Every man then poked other ; 

They said, ' This is the devil's brother, 

That slays our men, and thus hem eats ! ' " 

Richard apologised for the first course on the score of "his ignorance of their 
tastes." And then told them that it was useless for Saladin to keep back sup- 
plies in the hope of driving away the Christian army by starvation; for, 

said he, 

"Of us none shall die with hunger, 

While we may wenden to fight, 

And slay the Saracens downright, 

Wash the flesh, and roast the head, 

With oo Saracen I may well feed 
Well a nine or a ten 
Of my good Christian men. 

King Richard shall warrant, 

There is no flesh so nourissant 
Unto an English man, 

Partridge, plover, heron, ne swan, 

Cow ne ox, sheep ne swine, 

As the head of a Sarazyn. 

There he is fat, and thereto tender, 

And my men be lean and slender. 

While any Saracen quick be, 

Livand now in this Syrie, 

For meat will we nothing care. 

Abouten fast we shall fare, 

And every day we shall eat 
All so many as we may get. 

To England will we nought gon, 

Till they be eaten every one." 

(Quoted by Sir Walter Scott.) 


CANNIBALISM. 


161 


In connection with the above the following account relating to real facts in 
Zulu life will be interesting 


Indaba ngokudAliwa kwomuntu e 
dAliwa inkosi e b' i banga naye. 

Inkosi e dAliwayo eyezizwe, uma 
ku kona ukuzondana ngokweisana. 
Ku ti uma impi yenye inkosi i 
puma i ya kwenye, i i tete nge- 
zinyembezi ngokuti, " Ngo ka ngi 
zwe ke, band/da lakwetu ! Uma 
ni b' a/dulile nje, ngi nga boni 
ubani lapa, a ngi yi 'kukolwa. 
Ku ya 'kuba ku/de ni i bambe 
inkosi yakona, ni nga i shiyi, i ze 
lap', ngi y ek^e, ukuze izizwe zi 
ng' azi." 


Nembala ke i pume ngokutuku- 
tela okukulu kwenkosi, i tukutelele 
leyo e zondana nayo. I Alangane, 
kumbe i Alangana njalo, izin/doli 
zakona se zi banjiwe, ukuze zi tsho 
lapa inkosi yakona i kcatshe kona. 
Nembala zi tsho uma z' esabauku- 
bulawa. Impi y a/duka kabili, i 
ye lapo, lapa inkosi i kona ; i k^a- 
buke se i banjwa ngokuzumeka. 
Uma ku tiwe, a ba nga i bulali, 
ba nga i bulali ngokuti, " Si ya 
'kwapuka ukutwala umuntu ; ku- 
/de a zihambele, a zitwale yena." 


The account of a man being eaten 
by the chief with whom he had 
contended. 

The chief that is eaten is one of 
a foreign nation, when there is 
mutual hatred through mutual 
contempt between two chiefs. It 
happens when the army of one chief 
goes to attack another, the chief 
addresses the soldiers with tears, 
saying, " I shall soon hear then of 
your doings, soldiers of my father ! 
If you merely conquer them, and 
I do not see So-and-so 88 here, I 
shall not be satisfied. It will be 
well for you to catch their chief, 
and not leave him behind, but let 
him come here, that I may leap 89 
over him, that the nations may 
know me." 

So then the army is levied 
through the great rage with which 
the chief rages against the chief 
which is at enmity with him. 
When the armies meet, perhaps, 
at the very time of meeting, 
the spies of the place are 
seized that they may tell where 
their chief is concealed. And in- 
deed they tell, if they are afraid of 
being killed. The army is distri- 
buted into two divisions, and one 
goes to the place where the chief 
is ; he first becomes aware of its 
presence when he is suddenly 
seized. If they have been told not 
to kill him, they do not kill him, 
thinking, they should be burdened 
excessively by carrying a dead 
man ; and that it would be well 
for him to walk for himself, and 
I carry himself. 


38 So-and-so, mentioning the chief who is about to be attacked by name. 

89 Ngi y ekqe . — As the weasel leaps over a snake which it has killed (see p. 
4), so a native chief leaps over the captive chief of another tribe which is 
brought before him ; or over his dead body. He also leaps over a lion, which 
his people have killed and brought home. This is done as an indication of per- 
fect triumph. But sometimes a chief fears to leap over another chief of great 
reputation, lest he should be killed by the medicines with which he has been 
" charmed " by his doctors. 


162 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Nembala ke ba i bambe. I ya 
k^abuka impi yayo e libele uku- 
lwa nenye, i bone se ku kg-utshwa 
inkosi yayo, i pel' am and/da, ngo- 
kuti, " O, a si s' azi ukuba si sa 
lwela 'bani, loku nanku se be m 
bambile nje." I kciteke nje, ku 
be ukupela, ku dAliwe izinkomo. 


Ku fikwe nayo ekaya. I nga 
ka fiki, ku ham.be izigijimi pambili 
zokuya 'kuti, "Nkosi, si m bambile 
ubani namuAla." I be i zilungisa 
ke leyo 'nkosi e bikelwayo, i ku- 
mbula ukuti, " Konje uma ngi nga 
zilungisi, ngi nga fa, ngokuba a 
ngi kw azi ukugeza kwale 'nkosi 
uma i b' i geza ngani. Ku ya 
'kuba kubi uma ngi ti ngi ya 
kuyo, ngi ye ngi nge nasibindi, 
loku uma ngi tshaywa uvalo se ngi 
ya 'kufa, ngokuba isitunzi sake a 
ngi s' azi ; kumbe si nga ng' a- 
pula." 


I bize inyanga yoku i kginisa, 
ukuze i ye ngesibindi. Nembala 
ke i ya ya se i ya i k^alabile, i nga 
s' esabi 'luto. Loku leyo e banji- 
weyo i se i hie zi pansi, se i umfo- 
kazana nje, se i zibonela ukuti, 
" N am/da nje se ngi sekufeni." I 
fike le e za 'ku i bulala, i y ekye 
kaningi, ekupeleni i i bulale. Lapa 
se i file i /dale pezu kwayo ; i y' e- 
suka se i i kcwiya umzimba 
wonke, ku nga shiywa nendawana 


So then they seize him. And 
his soldiers which have been de- 
tained fighting with the enemy 
are first aware of it when they see 
their chief driven before the hos- 
tile army ; their courage fails, 
and they say, "0, we can no 
longer fight for So-and-so, since 
behold there he is already a pri- 
soner." So the army is scattered, 
there is an end of opposition, and 
the cattle are captured. 

The victors take him to their 
own country. But before the 
arrival of the captive chief, mes- 
sengers go forward to tell their 
chief, saying, " Chief, we have 
made So-and-so prisoner this time." 
Whereupon the chief who receives 
the information prepares himself, 
and remembers, saying, " So then, 
if I do not prepare myself, I may 
die, for I do not know with what 
medicines he has washed himself. 
It will be bad if I go to him with- 
out courage, for if I am struck 
with dread, I shall die at once, for 
I do not know how terrible his in- 
fluence 90 may be ; perhaps it will 
break me." 

And he calls a doctor to 
strengthen him that he may go to 
the captive chief boldly. So in- 
deed he goes having confidence, 
and fearing nothing. Since the 
chief who has been taken prisoner 
is now sitting on the ground, and 
is now a man of nought, already 
seeing that he is now about to die. 
So the chief comes who is about to 
kill him, he leaps over him again 
and again, and at last kills him. 
When he is dead he sits upon 
him ; he then cuts off small por- 
tions from every part of the body, 
without leaving a single place of 


90 Isitunzi is used to express what we mean by presence. It is applied either 
to a reverential presence, which however in the native mind is not separated 
from fear ; or to a terrible presence. It means also prestige. And what is 
called " fascination " would be ascribed to isitunzi. 


CANNIBALISM. 


163 


yomzimba ; kumbe i i ngnme in- 
Aloko, i londolozwe endaweni yen- 
kosi, ukuze leyo 'nAloko i be 
inAloko e ku bulawa ngayo amanye 
amakosi ngokutata isibindi kuyo 
ngoku i bheka. 

Leyo 'nyama yonke i bekwe 
odengezini, i Alanganiswe nemiti 
yobukosi, i tshiswe i ze i be um- 
sizi ; inkosi i ncinde ngayo, i y e- 
nza izembe. Ku tshiwo ke lapa 
se i wezwa ngamazibuko, ukuti, 
" Bani kabani owa d/da ubani, a 
kwa ba 'ndaba zaluto." Ku tshi- 
wo ngokuba a mu d/da umzimba e 
nga mu d/danga 'zinkomo ; ku 
tshiwo amakginiso. 

Ku ti lapa ku za 'upuma impi, 
lelo 'kanda li tatwe li bekwe eduze 
nemiti yenkosi e za 'kwelatshwa 
ngayo, ukuze i m' isibindi, ngo- 
kuti, "Na lo ngi ya 'ku m enza 
njenga lo. U za 'kuza lap', ku 
tatwe izinto zakona, ukuze ba ba 
tome, zi letwe kuleli 'kanda lomu- 
ntu owa n^otshwa." Kw enziwe 
umlingo wokuba nabo ba ze ba 
n^otshwe njenga lo owa n^o- 
tshwayo. 


consequence in the whole body ; 91 
perhaps he cuts off his head, that 
it may be kept in the chief's house, 
that the head may be a means of 
killing other chiefs, by giving him 
courage when he looks on it. 

All the flesh which is cut off is 
placed on a sherd, and mixed with 
king-medicine , 92 and burnt until it 
is charcoal ; the king eats it with 
the tips of his fingers, making it 
an izembe . 93 And so it is said, 
when his praises are recorded, 
"So-and-so, the son of So-and-so 
who ate So-and-so, without any 
harm resulting." It is said thus 
because he ate his body and did 
not eat his cattle only ; it is said 
truly. 

When an army is about to be 
levied, the head is placed near the 
king-medicine with which the chief 
is about to be treated, that he may 
have courage, saying, "And this 
fellow, I shall treat him as I did 
this. He shall shortly come here, 
and his things be taken, (that my 
people may be successful when fight- 
ing with has people,) and be brought 
to this head of the man that was 
conquered." The head is made 
a charm with which they too may 
be conquered as he was. 


91 The parts selected are the skin from the centre of the forehead and the 
eyebrow ; this is supposed, when eaten, to impart the power of looking stead- 
fastly at an enemy ; the nose, the right ear and hand, the heel, the prepuce and 
glans penis. 

92 King-medicine, that is, medicines which are supposed to have the power 
of producing kingly power and feelings in a man. Just as they say head-medi- 
cine, or eye -medicine, &c. 

93 Izembe is a mixture of various substances used either for medical or ma- 
gical purposes. It is thus prepared. The medicines are placed in a sherd over 
the fire and charred : when the sherd is red hot, the contents of the stomach of 
a bullock, goat, or sheep, or the dregs of beer, are squeezed over it, in such a 
way that the fluid drops into the sherd, and is stirred into the charred medi- 
cines. The fingers are then dipped into the hot preparation, which is rapidly 
conveyed to the mouth and eaten. When it is done with a magical object, the 
person whilst eating spits in different directions, especially in the direction of 
those he hates, or who are at enmity with him, and whom he thus, as it were, 
defies, fully believing that he is surrounding himself with a preserving influence 
against their machinations and power, and at the same time exerting an influ- 
ence injurious to them. In the minds of savages, medicine, magic, and witch- 
craft are closely allied. These and kindred superstitions will be fully discussed 
hereafter. 


164 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


I njalo ke indaba yokudAliwa 
kwonmntu kwabamnyama. Ka 
d/diwa njengenyama yenkomo; u 
d/diwa ngokutshiswa nemiti emi- 
kulu, ku ncindwe ngaye. Ku 
njalo ukud/diwa kwenkosi. 

Ukukcwiywa kwenkosi e bule- 
we enye ku ukudumaza okukulu 
kuleso 'sizwe, ngokuba ku tiwa, 
" Nina, kade sa ni d/da ; se ni lapa 
esiswini : a ni se 'luto kitina." 

TJmpengula Mbanda. 


Such, then, is the account of a 
man being eaten among black men. 
He is not eaten like the flesh of 
cattle; he is eaten when he has 
been charred with great medicines, 
and the chief eats it with the tips 
of his fingers. Such is the mode 
of eating a chief. 

For a chief to have been killed by 
another chief and to have had por- 
tions cut from his body, is a great 
humiliation of his tribe, for it is 
said, " As for you, we ate you long 
ago ; you are now here in our 
stomachs : as regards us you are 
nothing at alb" 


U GUN GQTJ-KUBANTWANA. 


An old woman lives at her son-in-law 1 s kraal. 


Kwa ku kona isalukazi esitile 
kukgala ; sa si /dezi kandodakazi ; 
sa si umkwekazi. Umkwenyana 
wa si nika amasi, wa ti, a si wa 
dAle ; ngokuba kwa ku nge ko 
'kudAla okuningi, kwa ku ind/dala. 
Sa w' ala amasi. Wa si nik' in- 
komo, e t' a si wa d/de ; s' ala, sa 
ti, si nge d/de amasi kamkwenyana. 


There was in times of long ago a 
certain old woman ; she was living 
with her daughter ; she was the 
mother-in-law . 94 Her son-in-law 
offered her amasi, telling her to 
eat ; for there was not much food, 
it was a famine. She refused the 
amasi. He offered her a cow, tell- 
ing her to eat the milk : she re- 
fused, saying, she could not eat the 
milk of her son-in-law . 95 


94 Viz., in that household. 

95 The father-in-law and mother-in-law may not eat their son-in-law's milk. 
The bride elect cannot eat milk at the lover's kraal, until she is actually mar- 
ried. Neither can a suitor, either before or after marriage, eat it at the bride's 
kraal. If a lover eat milk at the bride's kraal, or the young woman eat it at 
the suitor's kraal, it is equivalent to breaking off the engagement. Those of 
the same house only eat each other's milk, that is, brothers and sisters and 
cousins. But the chief's milk can be eaten by any of his people, for he is as it 
were the father of them all ; they are one house, — all brethren in him. The 
milk of other people is termed ikwababa , " a crow," — that is, carrion. 


UGUNGQU-KUBANTWAXA. 


165 


She steals her children's milk. 


Ngesikati sokulima sa si lamba 
kakulu ; si buye emini, si fike si 
vule end/dini kamkwenyana, si 
tulule amasi, si wa d/de. Kepa 
lapa se li tshonile ilanga, a ti um- 
kwenyana, " Buya," (e tsho kum- 
kake,) " u yo'upeka izinkobe, si 
vube amasi, ngokuba igula se li 
gcwele." Ba fike, a zi peke izin- 
kobe, a gaye umkcaba ; i suke 
indoda i tate igula, i finyanise 
igula, lize, so ku kona umlaza. 
Ba kale nabantwana be lambile, 
nomkwekazi a ti, " Ba za 'kufa 
abantwana bomntanami, ngokuba 
isela li d/da igula ngend/dala enga- 
ka." Isalukazi s' enze njalo zonke 
izikati. Kodwa be ng' azi indoda 
nomkayo uma li d/diwa unin a 
wabo. 


The son-in-law detects her ; a 

Indoda ya lalela, ya m bamba 
unina ; kodwa unina wa kala, wa 
ti, "Ngi ya kgala nam/da nje." 
Wa ti umkwenyana, wa ti, " Ha- 
mba, u yo'u ngi tatela amanzi lapa 
isele li nga kali ; kona ngi nga yi 
'ku ku veza kubantu." 


In the digging-season sbe was 
very hungry ; she was in the habit 
of returning home at noon, and on 
her arrival to open her son-in-law's 
house, and pour out the amasi and 
eat it. But when the sun had set, 
her son-in-law said, speaking to his 
wife, " Go home and boil some 
maize, that we may mix it with 
the amasi, for the calabash is now 
full ." 96 On their arrival she boiled 
maize, and made a soft mass ; the 
husband went and took the cala- 
bash; he found it empty; there 
was now nothing but whey in it . 97 
They and their children cried, 
being hungry ; and the mother-in- 
law said, " My child's children will 
die, for a thief is eating their 
milk, through this great famine." 
The old woman did thus at all 
times. But the husband and wife 
did not know that the milk was 
eaten by their mother. 

d sets her an impossible task. 

The husband lay in wait, and 
caught their mother ; but their 
mother cried, saying, " I did it for 
the first time this very day." Her 
son-in law said, " Go and fetch for 
me water at a place where no frog 
cries ; and I will not expose you 
to the people." 


She sets out to fetch water from a pool where no frog cries. 


Wa m nika isigubu. Wa ha- 
mba, wa hamba, kwa za kwa ba 
isikati eside, e dAlula imifula emi- 
ningi; wa fika emifuleni a nga 
y azi ; wa buza wa ti, " Ku kona 


He gave her a water-vessel. 
She went on and on for a long 
time, passing many rivers ; she 
came to rivers which she did not 
know ; she asked, " Is there any 


96 The daily milk is poured into a large calabash ; the whey is drawn off, 
and fresh milk poured in, till it is quite full ; the amasi thus obtained is then 
eaten. 

97 This implies that she had drawn off the whey into another vessel, and' 
returned it to the calabash when she had eaten the curds. 


166 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


'sele nje lapa na ?" La ti, " KMwe, 
ngi kona." Wa dAlula ; wa ya 
wa fika kweny' indawo; wa si 
bona isiziba, wa ya wa fika kona, 
wa k' amanzi ; la ti isele, " KMwe, 
ngi kona." Wa tulula, wa hamba 
'enza njalo, amasele nawo e kona 
kuzo zonke iziziba. Wa fika kwe- 
sinye isiziba, wa ti, " Ku kona 
'sele nje lapa na ?" La tula. Wa 
Alala pansi, wa ka amanzi. Kwa 
ti, lapa e se gcwala, ngokuba isi- 
gubu sa si sikulu, la ti, " KMwe, 
ngi kona." Wa buya wa wa tu- 
lula amanzi, e se kala e ti, " Maye, 
mamo ! nga ke nga zenza ukud/da 
amasi akamkweny ana. " Wa d/du- 
la. 


She reaches a pool 

Wa fika esizibeni esikulu ka- 
kulu ; wa bona izind/dela eziningi 
ezi ya kona esizibeni ; w' esaba. 
Kwa ku kona imitunzi eminingi 
ngapezulu kwesiziba. Sa fika isa- 
lukazi esizibeni, sa /dala pansi, sa 
ti, " Ku kona 'sele nje lapa na ? " 
Kwa tula. Sa pinda. Kwa tula. 
Sa kelela amanzi esigujini, s' e- 
gcwala isigubu. Sa ti uma se si 
gcwele, sa puza kakulu, sa ze sa 
pela isigubu : sa buye sa ka s' e- 
gcwala ; sa puza, a sa be si sa si 
k^eda, so kubuMungu isisu, ngo- 
kuba kwa kw ala ukuba a yeke 
ukupuza, kumnandi. 


frog here?" A frog answered, 
" KMwe , 98 I am here." She 
passed on, and came to another 
place ; she saw a pool ; she went 
to it and dipped water; a frog 
said, " KMwe, I am here." She 
poured it out. She travelled acting 
thus, and the frogs answering in 
like manner, for there were frogs 
in every pool. She came to an- 
other pool and said, " Is there any 
frog here?" No frog answered. 
She sat down and dipped water. 
But when the vessel was nearly full 
(for it was a large one), a frog said, 
" Khhwe, I am here." She poured 
out the water again, now crying 
and saying, " Woe is me, mamo ! 
I merely took of my own accord 
the amasi of my son-in law for 
food." She passed on. 

of delicious water. 

She came to a very great pool ; 
she saw many paths which went 
to the pool. She was afraid. 
There were many shady trees on 
the banks of the pool. She went 
to the pool and sat down ; she 
said, " Is there any frog here ? " 
There was no answer. She re- 
peated her question. There was 
no answer. She dipped water into 
the vessel ; the vessel was full. 
When it was full, she drank very 
much, until the vessel was empty. 
She dipped again till it was full ; 
she drank ; she was no longer able 
to drink the whole, she had a pain 
in the stomach, for she was unable 
to leave off drinking, it was so 
nice. 


The animals vmrn her of the arrival of U gungopi-hubantwana. 

Kepa lapa se si tanda ukusuka I But when she wished to arise 
si hambe, kw' ala ukuba si suke ; I and depart, she was unable to 

98 As pronounced by the native, this is an exact imitation of the croaking 
of a frog. 


UGUNGQU-KUBANTWANA. 


1G7 


sa si donsa isigubu, sa ya pansi 
kwomtunzi, sa h\ ala kona, ngokuba 
kwa ku nga vumi ukuba si hambe. 
Kwa ze kwa ba ntambama ; kwa 
fika imbila, ya ti, " Ubani o Alezi 
emtunzini wenkosi 1 " Sa ti, " U 
mina, baba. Ngi te ngi y' esuka, 
kwa ti ke/de ke/de." Ya ti im- 
bila, " U zo'u m bona Ugung^u- 
kubantwana." Sa ya, sa puza esi- 
zibeni, sa ya sa /dala pansi kwom- 
tunzi. Kwa bnya, kwa fika 
impunzi, ya ti, " Ubani o hXezi 
emtunzini wenkosi 1 " Sa ti, "U 
mina, baba. Ngi te ngi y' esuka, 
kwa ti ke/de ke/de." Ya ti 
impunzi, " U zo'u m bona Ugu- 
nggu - kubantwana." Kwa fika 
isilo, sa ti, " Ubani o /dezi em- 
tunzini wenkosi % " Sa ti, " U 

mina, baba. Ngi te ngi y' esuka, 
kwa ti ke/de ke/de." Sa ti isilo, 
" U zo'u m bona Ugunggu-kuba- 
ntwana." Za fika zonke, zi tsho 
njalo. Kepa kwa za kwa nga li 
nga tshona zi fika ziningi kakulu 
nezinkulu ; zonke izilo zi tsho 
njalo. 


arise ; she dragged the water- 
vessel, and went into the shade, 
and sat down there, for she was 
unable to walk. At length it was 
noon ; there came a rock-rabbit," 
and said, " Who is this sitting in 
the shade of the king T 1 She said, 
" It is I, father. I was about to 
depart ; but my limbs failed me." 
The rock-rabbit said, "You will 
soon see Ugunggu-kubantwana." 2 
She went and drank at the pool, 
and returned to the shade. A 
duiker 3 came and said, " Who is 
this sitting in the shade of the 
king ?" She said, " It is I, father. 
I was about to depart, but my 
limbs failed me." The duiker said, 
"You will soon see Ugunggu- ku- 
bantwana." A leopard came and 
said, " Who is this sitting in the 
shade of the king h " She said, 
" It is I, father. I was about to 
depart, but my limbs failed me." 
The leopard said, "You will soon 
see Ugunggu-kubantwana." All 
animals came saying the same. 
And when at length it was about 
sunset, there came very many and 
great animals ; all the animals said 
the same. 


A huge animal arrives, and the old woman is alarmed. 


Kwa ti lapa ilanga se li tshona, 
w' ezwa umsindo omkulu ku ti 
gung^u, gunggu. W' esaba e tu- 
tumela. Kwa ze kwa vela oku- 
kulu pezu kwezilo zonke a zi boni- 
leyo. Kwa ti lapa se ku velile, za 
ti kanye kanye, za ti, " U ye lowo 
ke Ugunggu-kubantwana." Wa 
fike wa ti e se kude, wa ti, 


When the sun was now setting, 
she heard a great noise, — gunggu, 
gunggu. She was afraid and 
trembled. At length there ap- 
peared something greater than all 
the animals she had seen. When 
it appeared they all said with one 
accord, " That is Ugung^u-kuba- 
ntwana." When she came in sight, 
whilst still at some distance, she 


99 Rock -rabbit, improperly so called. The Daman or Hyrax Capensis has 
been improperly placed among the Rodentia ; it belongs to the Pacliydermata. 
" They are," says Cuvier, " Rhinoceroses in miniature." 

1 All through this tale the mother of beasts is called king or chief. 

2 See Appendix A at the end of the tale. 

3 The Cephalopus Mergens. 


x 


168 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


" Ubani, ubani o Alezi emtunzini 
kagunggu-kubantwana ? " Lapo 
isalukazi sa si nga se namand/da 
okukuluma ; kwa se ku nga ti so 
ku fikile ukufa knsona. Wa 
pinda wa buza futi Ugunggu-ku- 
bantwana. Sa pendula isalukazi, 
sa ti, " U mina, nkosi. Ngi be 
nga ti ngi y' esuka, kwa ti ke/de 
ke/de." Wa ti, " IT zo'u m bona 
U gunggu-kubant wana. " 

Ugungo\u orders the c 

Wa ya emfuleni ; wa fika, wa 
guk^a ngamadolo, wa puza isiziba ; 
loku sa si sikulu kakulu, wa puza 
kwa ze kwa vela udaka olupansi 
esizibeni. Wa buya wa Alala 
pansi. Kepa amaula a e kona e 
izinduna kagung^u-kubantwana ; 
ku kona nezimpisi. Wa ti Ugu- 
ng^u, " A ka d/diwe." Za vuma 
izimpisi. Kepa amaula a ti, " U 
ya 'udAliwa e se kulupele, nkosi." 
Wa pinda wa ti, "A ka d/diwe." 
A ti amaula, " So ku /dwile ; u ya 
'ud/diwa kusasa, nkosi." 


She is delivered 

Kwa 7dwa ; ba lala, nezilwane 
zonke za lala. Kepa izilwane ezi- 
nye z' epuza ukulala ngokuba zi 
tanda ukuba a d/diwe. Kwa ti 
lapa se ku busuku kakulu za se zi 
lele zonke. Kepa amaula amane 
a e nga ka lali wona, a vuka, a 
tata isalukazi, a si pakamisa, a si 
beka em/dana kuwona omatatu. 
La ti lesine iula 1' etwala isigubu. 

4 Compare what is said of Behemol 

5 Redunca Scoparia. 


said, " Who, who art thou sitting 
in the shade of Ugung^u-kuba- 
ntwana ? " Then the old woman 
had no more any power to speak ; 
it was now as though death had 
already come to her. TJgunggu- 
kubantwana asked a second time. 
The old woman replied, " It is I, 
my lord. I was thinking of de- 
parting, but my limbs failed me." 
She said, " You will soon see 
U gung^u-kubantwana. " 

d woman to he eaten. 

She went to the river; when 
she reached it, she knelt on her 
knees, and drank the pool ; al- 
though it was very great, she 
drank until the mud at the bottom 
of the pool appeared. 4 She then 
sat down. And there were oribes 5 
there, who were the officers of 
Ugung^u-kubantwana ; there were 
also hyenas. Ugunggu-kubantwa- 
na said, " Let her be eaten." The 
hyenas agreed. But the oribes 
said, " She shall be eaten when 
she is fat, O chief." Again she 
said, "Let her be eaten." The 
oribes said, " It is now dark ; she 
shall be eaten in the morning, O 
chief." 

by four oribes. 

It was dark ; they slept, and all 
the animals slept. But some ani- 
mals put off sleeping because they 
wished that she should be eaten. 
At length it was midnight and all 
were asleep. But four oribes had 
not gone to sleep ; they arose and 
took the old woman, and raised 
her and placed her on the back of 
three of them ; the fourth oribe 
took the water-vessel. They ran 

i, Job. xiv. 22, 23. 


UGUNGQU-KUBANTWANA. 


169 


A gijima ngobusuku ; a ye, a m 
beka ekcaleni kwomuzi ngapa- 
ndAle ; a buya ngamajubane, e ti, 
u kona e ya 'ufika ku nga ka si. 
Nembala ke a fika masinyane. 


The oribes contrive to thro 

La ti elinye kwamanye, " Si ya 
'kwenze njani na 1 ? A si veze 
ikcebo ukuze ku nga bonwa ukuba 
i tina esi si balekisile." A ti ama- 
nye, " Loku izilwane ezi tanda 
ukudAla abantu isilo nebubesi, 
nezinye izilo nezimpisi — " La ti 
elinye, "A si ze si bekce udaka 
ezimpisini, ngokuba i zona ezi 
tanda ukudAla abantu ; i ya 'ku- 
vuma inkosi, i ti, ' Zi i tatile, za 
ye, za i dAlela kude inyamazane 
yenkosi ; ' ngokuba uma si bekca 
esilweni, si ya 'kuzwa, ngokuba 
into e nolunya kakulu, si vuke, ku 
vuke abantu bonke, inkosi i ti, i 
tina esi tatile inyamazane yayo, sa 
ya 'u i dAla." A vuma ke onke 
amaula. A fika, udaka a lw esu- 
lela ezitweni zempisi, a e se zesula 
amaula, a lala endaweni lapa e be 
lele kona. 


Ugungcpi dev < 

Kwa sa kusasa za vuka izilo 
zonke, za ti, " I pi inyamazane 
yenkosi 1 Inkosi i za 'ubulala 
amaula, wona 'alile ukuba i clAli- 
we." A e se vuka masinyane, e 
ti amaula, " Ihkosi i za 'ubona 
izinyawo zabantu bonke. Uma 
be nga hambanga, zi ya 'kuba 
zinAle. Kepa uma be bambile, ku 


during the night, and went and 
placed her on the border of her 
village on the outside. They re- 
turned with speed, saying, then 
they should arrive before morning. 
And truly they soon arrived. 

v suspicion on the hyenas. 

One said to the other, " What 
shall we do 1 Let us devise a plan, 
that it may not appear that it is 
we who have enabled her to flee." 
The others said, " Since the ani- 
mals which like to eat men are the 
leopard, the lion, other wild beasts, 
and hyenas — " Then one said, 
" Let us smear mud on the hyenas, 
for it is they who like to eat men ; 
and the chief will agree and say, 
'They have taken the game of 
the chief, and gone and eaten 
it at a distance ; * for if we 
smear the leopard it will feel, (for 
it is a very wrathful creature, ) and 
awake, and all the people will 
awake, and the chief say, it is 
we who have taken away the 
game, and gone to eat it." So all 
the other oribes agreed. They 
went and smeared the mud on the 
legs of the hyenas ; and when they 
had cleansed themselves they went 
and lay down where they had lain. 

irs the hyenas. 

In the morning all the animals 
arose and said, " Where is the 
game of the chief 1 She will 
kill the oribes, it was they 
who objected to its being eaten." 
The oribes at once awoke, say- 
ing, " The chief will look at the 
feet of all the people. If they 
have not gone any where, they 
will be clean. But if they have 


170 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ya 'ubonakala udaka ezinyaweni 
na sezitweni zabo." Ya vuma 
inkosi, ya ti emauleni, " Tsbetsha 
ni masinya, ni bheke izito ezi no- 
daka, ba banjwe, ba letwe labo 
kumina. Kwa se ku suka zonke 
izilwane, zi bhekana ; kwa funya- 
nwa ezimpisini udaka. A ti ama- 
ula, " Izimpisi ezi m tatile, za ye 
za mu d/da, ngokuba ku izinto ezi 
tanda ukud/da." Za tatwa izim- 
pisi, za yiswa enkosini. Ya fika 
inkosi ya zi tata, ya zi d/da zontatu 
izimpisi. 


gone, there will be seen mud on 
their feet and on their legs ." 6 
The chief agreed, and said to the 
oribes, " Make haste at once, 
and look for the muddy legs, 
and let them be seized and brought 
to me." All the animals stood 
forth, and looked at each other ; 
there was found mud on the hye- 
nas. The oribes said, " It is the 
hyenas who have taken and eaten 
her, for they are animals which 
like to eat men." The hyenas 
were seized and taken to the chief. 
She seized the three hyenas, and 
ate them. 


The old woman is received by her son-indaw. 


Sa /dala isalukazi ekceleni kwo- 
muzi, sa ze sa bona umuntu wase- 
kaya ; wa tshela umkwenyana 
waso ; wa ya wa si tata kanye ne- 
sigubu. Umkwenyana wa /dala e 
puza lawo 'manzi a fike nomkwe- 
kazi. 


The old woman remained at the 
border of the kraal ; at length she 
saw some one belonging to her 
home ; he told her son-in-law ; he 
went and fetched her and the 
water-vessel. The son-in-law con- 
tinually drank the water which 
his mother-in-law had brought. 


She sets her son a dangerous and difficult task. 


Kwa ti um/dana e pelayo sa ti 
isalukazi, " Loko nami nga ya nga 
ka amanzi, nawe hamba u yo'u ngi 
tatela isibindi sengogo." Kwa 
gaywa izinkwa eziningi, a ya 'u- 
hamba e zi d/da end/deleni, ngo- 
kuba kwa ku kude kakulu. Kwa 


It came to pass on the day the 
water was finished the old woman 
said , 7 " Since I went and fetched 
water, do you go and fetch for me 
the liver of an ingogo ." 8 Many 
loaves were made for him to eat on 
his journey, for it was a great way 


6 In the Basuto legend of the Little Hare, the hare "rose in the night and 
drank the water of the king, and then took some mud and besmeared the lips 
and the knees of the jerboa that was sleeping at his side." The mud is witness, 
and with one voice all the animals condemn the jerboa to death. ( Casalis. Op. 
cit., p. 352 .) And in the Hottentot fable, the jackal smeared the hyena's tail 
with fat, and then ate all the rest that was in the house. When accused in the 
morning of having stolen it, he pointed to the hyena's tail, as a proof that he 
was the thief. (Bleek. Op. cit., p. 18.,) Comp. " The fox cheats the bear out 
of his Christmas fare. " (Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories, p. 280. ) 

7 The son-in-law had spell-bound the old woman to do what was appa- 
rently an impossibility. Having accomplished it and returned, she avenged 
herself by binding him to enter on a dangerous adventure. Compare the tale of 
Mac Iain Direach, where the step-mother and son bind each other by spells. 
(Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 328.) 

8 See Appendix B. 


U GUN G QU-KU BAN T W ANA. 


171 


sa kusasa e zi twala izinkwa, wa 
liamba e lala end/de ; wa za wa 
fika lapa i twasayo inyanga, wa zi 
funyanisa izingogo ziningi kakulu, 
z' ekga odongeni, zi d/dala. Wa 
fika naye e se gijima, e liamba 
ngezand/da na ngenyawo. Za ti 
ezinkulu, " Nansi ingogo yetu." 
Za ti ezincane, " Ingogo njani le 
na, e-nwele ngamuntu ; e-me/dwa- 
na ngamuntu ; e-ndAletshana nga- 
muntu ; e-makalana ngamuntu ? " 
Za ti ezinkulu, "Ingogo, ingani 
ingogo nje ; ingani ingogo nje." 
Za binda ke ezincane. Kepa uma 
zi Alezi zodwa, zi /deka, zi ti, "A 
ku si yo ingogo le, si ya bona 
tina." Za ze za buya za ya ekaya. 


The man is suspected and vj 

Wa fika wa bona ukuba kanti 
ku kona unina-kulu, o se mdala. 
Kwa sa kusasa za ti, " Hamba, 
wetu ; si yo'uzingela." Wa ti, 
" Ngi katele ; a ngi z' ukuya 
namAla nje." Za hamba ke zonke 
ezinkulu ; za ti ezincane, " Tina a 
si zi 'kuya 'ndawo." Za ti ezin- 
kulu, "A si ze si fike se ni tezile 
izinkuni zokupeka." Za ti ezi- 
ncane, "A si tandi ukushiya 
ukulu yedwa nomuntu o fikileyo." 
Za hamba ke za ya 'uzingela ; za 
ze za buya, za fika ezincane zi 
hlezi ; za tukutela ezinkulu, za ti, 


9 That is, they claim him as one 
them, they would use as a dependent. 


off. In the morning, carrying the 
loaves, he set out on his journey, 
sleeping in the open air ; at length 
he arrived at the new moon, and 
found very many izingogo, leaping 
on the bank of a river, at play. 
He approached them, he too now 
running and going on his hands 
and feet. The old izingogo said, 
" There is our ingogo ." 9 The 
young ones said, " What kind of 
an ingogo is that, which has hair 
like a man ; and little eyes like a 
man ; and little ears like a man ; 
and little nostrils like a man ? " 
The old ones said, "It is an in- 
gogo : by such and such things we 
see it is nought but an ingogo ; by 
such and such things we see it is 
nought but an ingogo." So the 
little ones were silent. But when 
they were by themselves they 
laughed, saying, " That is not an 
ingogo ; we see, for our parts." 
At length they returned to their 
homes. 

itched by the young izingogo. 

On his arrival he saw that 
there was at the kraal a grand- 
mother, who was now old. In 
the morning they said, " Go, our 
fellow, we are going to hunt." He 
said, " I am tired ; I shall not go 
to-day." All the old ones went ; 
the young ones said, " As for us, 
we shall not go any where." The 
old ones said, " Let us come home 
by and bye, and find that you have 
already fetched firewood for cook- 
ing." The little ones said, "We 
do not like to leave grandmother 
alone with the person who has 
come." So they went to hunt. 
At length they returned ; on their 
arrival the little ones were sitting 
still ; the old ones were angry, and 
of themselves, whom, having come to 


172 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


" Tina se si vela 'uzingela ; kepa 
nina a ni yanga 'kuteza." Za 
binda ezincane. Kwa pekwa izin- 
yamazane. Za d/da, za lala. 

He hunts wit 

Kwa sa kusasa za ti, " Hamba, 
si ye 'uzingela." Wa hamba nazo. 
Za ya za zingela, za buya ntamba- 
ma ; za funyanisa ezincane nazo se 
zi vela 'kuteza. Za fika, za peka 
izinyamazane zazo. Ya ti lena 
ingogo e s' and' ukufika, ya ti, lapa 
izinyamazane se zi vutiwe, ya ti, 
"A no ngi bekela umlenze, ngo- 
kuba isisu sibu/dungu. A ngi 'uze 
nga i d/da inyama." Za vuma ke, 
za u beka umlenze. Za lala. 


lie kills their grandmother, 

Kwa ti kusasa za buza za ti, 
" Isisu si njani na?" Ya ti, " Si 
se bu/dungu." Za ti, " A si 
hambe tina, si yo'uzingela." Za 
hamba ke ; ya sala yona nezincane. 
Kwa ti zi s' and' ukumuka, ya ti, 
"Hamba ni, ni yo'u ngi kelela 
amanzi emfuleni, ngi ze ngi puze." 
Za tata isigubu, za hamba naso. 
Kepa sa se si vuza isigubu si nem- 
bobo ngapansi. Za fika emfuleni, 
za kelela amanzi, sa vuza isigubu. 
Z' epuza kakulu ukubuya emfu- 
leni, kwa za kwa ba semini ka- 
kulu. Kanti ku te zi sa puma ya 
se i suka ingogo, i tata umkonto, 
ya gwaza unina-kulu walezi izin- 
gogo ezi nge ko ; ya i dabula isi- 
fuba nesisu, kwa vela isibindi, ya 


J0 That is, the man who had just 
11 That is, the man. 


said, "We are already come from 
hunting ; but you have not been 
to fetch firewood." The little ones 
were silent. The game was cook- 
ed. They ate, and lay down. 

the izingogo. 

In the morning they said, " Let 
us go and hunt." He went with 
them. They went and hunted, 
and returned in the afternoon ; 
they found the little ones too now 
returning from fetching wood. 
They cooked their game. The 
newly arrived ingogo 10 said, when 
the game was dressed, " Just put 
aside a leg for me, for I have a 
pain in my stomach. I cannot 
just now eat meat." They as- 
sented, and put him aside a leg. 
They lay down. 

and runs off with her liver. 

In the morning they asked him 
how his stomach was. He said, 
"It is still painful." They said, 
" Let us go and hunt." So they 
went, and he remained alone with 
the little ones. As soon as they 
were gone, he said, " Do you go 
and fetch -me some water from the 
river, that I may drink." They 
took a water-vessel and went with 
it. But the vessel leaked, having 
a hole in the bottom. They ar- 
rived at the river, and dipped 
water ; the vessel leaked. They 
took a long time in returning from 
the river, until it was midday. 
But as soon as they went out, the 
ingogo 11 arose and took a spear, 
and killed the grandmother of the 
izingogo which were absent; he 
cut open the chest and bowels ; the 
liver appeared ; he took it out ; he 

rived pretending to be an ingogo. 


UGUNGQU-KUBANTWANA. 


173 


si kipa, ya k^alaza, ya bheka pe- 
zulu, ya bona uvati, ya lw etula, 
ya baleka. 


looked on every side ; be looked 
upwards and saw an uvati ; 12 he 
took it down and fled. 


The young izingogo give the alarm. 


Kwa ti lapa se li tshona ilanga 
za buya izingogo ezincane, za ti zi 
se senzansi kwomuzi, za bona igazi 
eliningi li gijime ngenclAlela, se 
I' omile ngokuba wa e i gwazile 
ekuseni. Za ya se zi gijima ekaya, 
za fika za ngena end/dini ; kepa 
ind/du ya inde kakulu, ku nga 
kanyi kakulu pakati kwayo. Za 
fika, za m bona unina-kulu e se 
file. Za puma zi gijima ngama- 
ndAla, zi kala, zi bheka ngalapa 
ku yiwe 'uzingela ngakona. Za zi 
bona ezinkulu izingogo ; za ti ezi- 
ncane, zi tsho zi tsko zi tsho zi ti, 
" Ingogo njani le e-meAlo nga- 
muntu lena na ? " Za ti ezinkulu, 
" Kw enze njani na?" Za ti ezi- 
ncane, " U m bulele ukulu." Za 
gijima, za la/da izinyamazane, za 
pata imikonto, za ti, " U bheke 
ngapi lowo 'muntu e be si ti in- 
gogo ? " Za ti ezincinane, " A 
si m bonanga ; be si ye 'kuka 
amanzi ; sa m funyana ukulu e se 
file, si nga sa m boni yena." 


When the sun was setting the 
little izingogo returned ; when 
they were in the lower part 
of the village, they saw much 
blood which had run on the 
path, now dry, for he had stab- 
bed the old ingogo in the morn- 
ing. They at once ran home ; 
on their arrival they entered the 
house ; but the house was very 
long, and not very light inside ; 
they found their grandmother 
dead . 13 They went out running 
with all their might, crying, and 
looking in the direction whither 
they had gone to hunt. When 
they saw the old ones, the little 
ones cried out again and again, 
saying, " What kind of an ingogo 
is that who has eyes like a man ? " 
The old ones said, " What has 
happened?" The little ones re- 
plied, " He has killed grand- 
mother." They ran, they threw 
down their game ; they carried 
their spears in their hands. They 
asked, " In what direction has the 
man gone who we thought was an 
ingogo ? " The little ones said, 
"We saw him not; we had gone 
to fetch water ; . on our return we 
found grandmother dead ; but saw 
no more of him." 


18 The Uvati, or fire -producing apparatus of the natives, consists of two 
sticks cut from an umuti womlilo, " fire-tree," that is, a tree which will readily 
yield fire by friction. The usando is preferred. The sticks are called male and 
female ; the male is small, a foot or two long and pointed ; the female is some- 
what larger and longer, as it is more rapidly worn out ; it is notched in the 
middle with three notches ; the one which is uppermost is called the mouth ; it 
is larger than the others, and in this the point of the male-stick works ; from 
the mouth on each side are two smaller notches, which are called eyes. The 
male-stick is rotated between the hands, its point working in the mouth of the 
female-stick, lying on the ground ; by rubbing, dust is formed, which collects 
in the eyes, and falls from them on dry grass, which is placed underneath ; 
when enough is collected, the male-stick is rotated with greater rapidity, the 
dust is ignited, and fire is produced. 

13 See Appendix C. 


174 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


They pursue 

Za landela ngegazi lapa be ku 
hambe ku kconsa igazi kona. Za 
gijima, kwa ku lapa se ku Alwile 
za lala endAle. Kwa sa kusasa za 
vuka za gijima ngamandAla ka- 
kulu. Kwa ti lapa se ku semini, 
wa bheka umuntu o pete isibindi, 
wa bona utuli oluningi ngasemuva 
kwake. Wa gijima kakulu. Kepa 
zona izingogo za zi nejubane ku- 
naye, ngokuba yena wa e umuntu, 
zona zi izilwane. Kwa ti emini 
kakulu za m bona. Kwa nga ti 
zi ya ndiza ngoku m bona kwazo. 
Wa bona ukuba zi zo'u m funya- 
nisa. Wa ya w' enyuka ngomango 
omude kakulu ; wa ti e dundubala, 
za zi fika nazo ngapansi kwo- 
mango. W' e/da, wa funyanisa 
isik^ungwa si siningi kakulu, 
kw enile ; wa tata uvati, wa Alala 
pansi, wa lu pe/da, wa vuta um- 
lilo, wa tshisa isikota, wa zungeza 
leyo 'ntaba e nomango ; za baleka 
izingogo ngokuba za zi w esaba 
utnlilo. Za buyela ngalapaya 
kwentaba ; wa e se gijima e kgo- 
nda pambili, kwa ze kwa Aiwa e 
nga zi boni. 

He ei 

Wa lala. Kwa sa wa vuka wa 
baleka wa ye wa Jala kwomunye 
umuzi u senkangala. Kwa sa 
kusasa e vuka e gijima. Kwa ti 
emini wa bheka ngasemuva, wa zi 
bona zi za zi gijim' izingogo. Ku 
ti e be zi sele emuva, se zi katele, 
zi nga m bona zi gijime kakulu, 
ku buye ku nga titi se ku pelile 
ukukatala kuzona. Wa bona futi 
ukuba zi za 'u m bamba. Wa 
pe/da uvati, wa vuta umlilo, wa 

14 Other people also apply the term 
friction. 


the murderer. 

They followed his track by the 
blood where it had gone dropping 
in the path. Th^y ran ; when it 
was dark they slept in the open 
country. In the morning they 
awoke and ran with all their 
might. When it was noon, the 
man who was carrying the liver 
looked and saw much dust behind 
him. He ran very fast. But the 
real izingogo were more swift than 
he ; for he was a man ; they were 
animals. At midday they saw 
him. It was as though they flew 
through catching sight of him. 
He saw that they would soon catch 
him. He ascended a very long 
steep place ; when he was at the 
top, they were reaching the bot- 
tom ; he descended ; he found very 
much long and thick grass; he 
took the uvati, and sat down, and 
churned 14 it, and kindled a fire, 
and set the grass on fire ; it sur- 
rounded the steep hill ; the izin- 
gogo fled, for they feared the fire ; 
they went back from the mountain 
by the way they came. And he 
ran forward until it was dark 
without seeing them. 


He slept. In the morning he 
awoke and fled ; he went and slept 
at another village on the high land. 
In the morning he awoke and ran. 
At noon he looked behind him, 
and saw the izingogo coming to 
him running. And those who had 
lagged behind being now tired, 
when they saw him, ran rapidly ; 
it was again as if their fatigue was 
at an end. Again he saw they 
were about to catch him. He 
churned the uvati, and kindled 

churn to the mode of producing fire by 


U GUN G QU-KUBAN T WAN A. 


175 


tshisa isikota; za bona nmlilo u 
vuta, z' ema. Wa gijima, a ka be 
e sa zi bona ; wa ze wa lala kwa 
ba kabili end/deleni e nga zi boni. 
Kwa ti ngolwesitatu, um/da e za 
'ufika kubo, wa zi bona emini, za 
m k^cotsha ; wa tshetsha wa sondela 
eduze nemizi, za se zi buyela 
emuva. 


The izingogo boil and 

Za fika ekaya. Za fika, za m 
tata unina-kulu, za m peka ngem- 
biza enkulu. Wa lala e pekiwe 
eziko. Kwa za kwa sa zi i kwe- 
zela ; kwa ti na kusasa za kwezela 
kwa ze kwa ba semini. Kwa ti 
ntambama za m epula, za m beka 
ezitebeni ; wa Alala, wa za wa 
pola. Za ti ezinkuln kwezincane, 
"A si d/de ukulu, kona si nga yi 
'kufa." Za mu d/da ke, za m 
k^eda. 


fire, and burnt the grass : when 
they saw the fire burning, they 
halted. He ran and saw them no 
more ; until he had slept twice in 
the way he did not see them. On 
the third day, the day he would 
reach his own people, he saw them 
at noon ; they pursued him ; he 
hasted and approached near the 
villages, and then they turned 
back. 

eat their grandmother. 

They reached their own home. 
On their arrival they took the 
grandmother, and boiled her in a 
large pot. They took a whole 
day cooking her . 15 XJntil it 
was morning they kept up the 
fire, and during the morning 
they kept up the fire. At noon 
they took her out of the pot, and 
placed her on the feeding-mats ; 
she remained there till she was 
cold. The old ones said to the 
little ones, " Let us eat your 
grandmother, then we shall not 
die ." 16 So they ate her up. 


The son-in-law reaches home. 


Wa e se fika ekaya umkwenyana 
waleso 'salukazi ; wa fika wa si 
nika isibindi. Sa ti, " W enzile, 
mntanami." 

Lydia, (Umkasetemba.) 


The son-in-law of the old woman 
reached his home ; on his arrival 
he gave her the liver. She said, 
"You have done well, my child." 


15 The natives reckon their days' journey by the times they sleep. Nga 
lala hatatu, " I slept three times," — that is, I took three days. U ya'kulala 
kahlanu , " You will sleep five times," — that is, you will take five days. Here 
it is said, the dead grandmother slept or lay down when cooked, — that is, they 
were not satisfied with the ordinary time, but left her one day in the pot over 
the fire. 

16 This is in allusion to a Btrange medical theory or superstition. When a 
serious disease invades a kraal, a doctor is summoned not merely to treat the 
disease, but to give "courage-medicines." He selects, among other things, the 
bone of a very old dog which has died a natural death, from mere old age, or of 
an old cow, bull, or other very old animal, and administers it to the healthy as 
well as to the sick people, that they may have life prolonged to the same extent 
as the old animal of whose remains they have partaken. This is the native 
" Life-pill." The izingogo eat the old woman that they may not die. 


Y 


176 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


APPENDIX (A). 


UGUNGQU-KUBANTWANA. 


TJgungqu-kubantwana, kwa ku 
tshiwo ngokuba e unina wezilo 
zonke, ngokuba a e inkosi yazo ; 
nesiziba leso za zi fika kukgala 
izilwane zi puze, zi m shiyele, ngo- 
kuba wa e nge ze a puza kuk^ala, 
ngokuba a e nga pela onke ama- 
nzi, zi nga ka puzi, uma e puzile 
kukgala ; kepa umzimba wake 
ngenccenye kwo/dangoti wa e mi- 
lile ilizwe, ngenccenye ku kona 
imifula nama/dati amakulu ; kepa 
leyo 'mifula eya i kuyena za zi nga 
tancli uku i puza, ngokuba ya i 
fana namanzi ; isiziba leso e za zi 
puza kusona kwa ku nga ti ubisi ; 
ngaloko ke zi nga puzi kweminye 
imifula, zi puze kona esizibeni. U 
tiwa TJgunggu ngokuba wa e zwa- 
kala e se kude, ukuti u y' eza, ngo- 
kuba uma e hamba be ku zwakala 
umsindo omkulu, b' ezwa ukuba 
so ku fika yena ngokuti gung^u, 
gungyu. 


Lydia. 


TJgungqu-kubantwana was so 
called because sbe was the mother 
of all animals, for she was their 
chief ; and as regards the pool, the 
animals used to go to it first and 
drink, and leave water for her ; 
for she could not drink first, for 
all the water would have been ex- 
hausted before the animals had 
drunk if she had drunk first ; and 
as to her body, on one side there 
was a country, on the other rivers 
and great forests ; but the rivers 
which were in her the animals did 
not like to drink, for they were 
like common water ; that pool at 
which they drank was, at it were, 
milk ; therefore they did not drink 
at other rivers, they drank at the 
pool. She was called TJgunggu 
because when she was still at a 
distance she was heard coming, 
for when she was moving there was 
heard a great noise, and they heard 
that she was coming by the gu- 
ng<?u, gunggai . 17 


In other legends of South Africa the elephant is represented as the king of 
beasts. The Basuto tale of the Little Hare has so many things in common with 
this of Ugungr/u : kubantwana, that one cannot doubt that they have a common 
origin. There a woman longs for the liver of a fabulous animal, the niama- 
tsane ; her husband goes to hunt one to gratify her ; he finds a large herd, but 
as they could " leap three sleeps at a bound," — that is, a distance equal to three 
days' journey, — and "their backs and legs were like a live coal," he has some 
difficulty in catching one, and succeeds at last only by means of magic ; he 
kills one, and gets possession of the longed-for liver ; his wife devours it with 
avidity, but it is as a burning fire within her, and she rushes to the great lake 
and drinks it dry ; and remains, overpowered by the excessive draught, stretched 
on the ground, unable to move. The king of beasts, when informed, tells 
several animals to go and punish the woman, but one after another makes an 
excuse. The ostrich at length goes to her, and gives her such a violent kick 
that the water spouts up into the air, and rushes in torrents into the lake. The 
animals do not dare to drink the water ; but the hare goes stealthily by night, 
and drinks, and then smears the lips and knees of the jerboa with mud, that 
the charge may fall on it. ( Casalis . Op. cit., p. 350.) Compare also "The 
Elephant and the Tortoise. " Bleek. Op. cit., p. 27. 


17 Gungqu , gungqu . — This word is intended as an imitation of the noise 
produced by the animal, which is said to resemble that made by a heavily laden 
wagon passing over a bad road. The English reader will not be able to pro- 
nounce the click ; but he will succeed in producing a sound sufficiently similar 
by uttering gunghu , nasalising and aspirating strongly the g. — Another native 
adds, she was so called because she swallowed every thing that came in her way, 
so that when she moved the contents of her stomach rattled. 


THE IZINGOGO. 


177 


APPENDIX (B). 

THE IZINGOGO. 

The Izingogo are fabulous animals, — degenerated men, who by living continually 
apart from the habitations of men have become a kind of baboon. They go on 
all fours, and have tails, but talk as men ; they eat human flesh, even that of 
their own dead. 


Izingogo, kwa ku nga ti za zi 
abantu ; kepa kwa ti ngokutanda 
kwazo za Alala end/de, kwa za kwa 
tiwa izilwane, ngokiiba za zi Alala 
endAle, ngaloko ke umuntu za mu 
dAla. Kepa uma ku fika umuntu 
o vela kubantu 'enza imikuba e 
njengeyazo, zi jabule zi ti, " Naye 
u ingogo," ngokuba 'enza njengazo. 
Kepa abantwana a se be Alakani- 
pile, ukuAlakanipa kwabo kwa ku 
dAlula okwezinkulu, ngokuba ba 
be m karwaya, be ti, "A ku si yo 
ingogo ; " noma ezinkulu zi tuku- 
tela zi ba tshaye abantwana, ba 
pike noma zi ba tshaya. Kwa ku 
ti uma zi hambile zi yo'udAlala 
odongeni, zi fike zi pikisane ngo- 
kwek^a, zi ti o nga kw azi ukwe- 
k^a a ka si yo ingogo ; nezincane 
z' ekge ; kepa uma ku fika umuntu 
e ti u ingogo, be zi ya naye odo- 
ngeni, zi ti a k' ek qe njengazo; 
ngokuba ku tiwa ukwekga za zi 
lula ngokuba za zi dAla ibornvu ; 
ku ti uma se zi kgedile ukwek^a, 
zi me odongeni olukulu, zi fulatele 
enzansi zonke, zi ti, " A si tsbeke 
sonke, si ye 'kubheka inAle yake 
uma i njengeyetu na?" Uma i njalo, 
zi ti u ingogo ; uma i nge njalo, zi 
mu dAle ; ku ti uma lowo 'muntu 
o fikile kuzona, uma e nga tsbeki 
njengazo, zi mu clAle. Be ku ti 
uma umuntu e ya kona a bunjelwe 
izinkwa zebomvu, a Alale ekaya e 
dAla zona, ku ze ku fe inyanga, e 
nga sa ku dAli ukudAla, e se dAla 
ibornvu lodwa ; a hambe nalo eli 
pete izigakga eziningi, kona e ya 
'kuti uma e se fikile kuzona izin- 
gogo naye a tshekis' okwazo, zi be 
se zi ti naye ingogo. 


The Izingogo were apparently 
men ; but it came to pass by their 
own choice they lived in the open 
country, until they were called 
animals, for they lived in the open 
country, and therefore they ate 
man. But when there arrived a 
man who came from other men 
who practised the same habits as 
themselves, they rejoiced, saying, 
he too was an ingogo, because he 
did as they did. But the discern- 
ment of the children, who were 
now sharp, was greater than that 
of the older ones, for they were on 
their guard against him, saying, 
" It is not an ingogo ; " and even 
though the old ones were angry 
and beat them, they denied not- 
withstanding they were beaten. 
They used to go and play on the 
bank of a river ; on their arrival 
they contended by leaping, saying, 
that he who could not leap was 
not an ingogo ; the little ones 
leaped too; and if there came a 
man feigning to be an ingogo, they 
would go with him to the bank, 
and tell him to leap like them ; 
for it is said, when they leapt 
they were light, because they ate 
red earth. 


* * * * * 


* * * * 


178 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Izingogo za zi hamba ngezinyawo 
ezine ; za zi nemisila ; kodwa za zi 
kulumisa kwabantu. 

Lydia. 


The Izingogo used to go on all 
fours ; they had tails ; but they 
talked like men. 


It may be well to compare this account of the Izingogo with Gulliver's 
account of the Yahoos. The native imagination has quite equalled Swift in 
describing degenerate man. 

This will be the proper place to introduce the native legend on the origin of 
baboons. According to this theory, man is not an elevated ape, but the ape is 
a degenerated man. 


UKUYELA KWEZIMFENE. 


(the origin of baboons.) 


Emafeneni isizwe esa penduka 
izimfene. Abantu ba kona ba 
vama ukuvilapa, be ngena uku- 
lima ; ba tanda ukud/da kwabanye 
abantu, ngokuti, "Si ya 'kupila, 
noma si nga limi, uma si d/da 
ukud^la kwabalimayo." Inkosi 
yakona, kwatusi, isibongo sakona, 
ya buta isizwe sakona, ya ti, "A 
ku funwe ukud/da ku be umpako 
ukuze ku d/diwe, loku ku za 'u- 
punywa emakaya ku yiw' end/de." 
Nembala ke kwa ba njalo. Kwa 
butwa ukud/da konke nezinkwa, 
kwa pekwa ; kwa tatwa imipini 
yamagejo okulima : ya patwa ukuze 
ba zipisele ngayo ngemuva. U 
lapo ke a ba penduka ngako izim- 
fene. A si zwa 'ndab' enkulu a 
ba y enza ukuze ba penduke izim- 
fene, ukupela ukupisela impini 
njalo ; ya mila ya ba umsila ; kwa 
vela noboya; ba puka ubuso, ba 
ba izimfene ke. Ba hamba ema- 
weni ; imizi yabo ya ba amawa. 
Na nam/da nje ku sa tshiwo njalo 
uma i bulewe imfene, ku ti.wa, 
" Umuntu wakwatusi. Emafeneni 
lapa ku dabuka kona izimfene." 

TJmamadunjini, Umkatuta. 


Among the Amafene was the tribe 
which became baboons. The people 
of that tribe were habitually idle, 
and did not like to dig ; they 
wished to eat at other people's 
houses, saying, "We shall live, 
although we do not dig, if we eat 
the food of those who cultivate the 
soil." The chief of that place, of 
the house of Tusi, the surname of 
that tribe, assembled the tribe, 
and said, " Let food be prepared, 
that it may be food for a journey, 
for we are going to leave our 
homes and go into the wilderness." 
And they did so. All kind of 
food was collected, and bread 
made ; and they took the handles 
of digging-picks : they took these 
that they might fasten them on 
behind. It was then that they 
turned into baboons. We do not 
know any long account of what 
they did that they might turn into 
baboons, but only that they thus 
fastened on the pick-handles ; they 
grew and became tails ; hair made 
its appearance on their bodies; 
their foreheads became overhang- 
ing, and so they became baboons. 
They went to the precipices ; their 
dwellings were the rocks. And 
even to this day it is still said, 
when a baboon is killed, "It is 
one of Tusi's men. The Amafene 
is the nation from which the ba- 
boons sprang," 


THE ORIGIN OF BABOONS. 


179 


ANOTHER VERSION. 


Ku tiwa, imfene kwa ku umuntu, 
uAlobo lwabantu bakwatusi. I 
y* aziwa u/tlobo lwayo lapa ya vela 
kona. Na manje ku sa tiwa ema- 
feneni, isizwe sakona. Ku tiwa, 
umuntu wakona wa ba ivila eli- 
kulu ; w' en^ena ukusebenza imi- 
sebenzi yonke ; wa tanda ukudAla 
oku setsbenzwe abanye abantu ; 
kepa wa Alupeka kakulu, abantu 
be m sola, be m /deka, be m du- 
maza ngobuvila bake : wa za wa 
tata umpini wegejo lake, wa u 
faka ngemva, ukuze a be inyama- 
zane, a d/de ngokweba loko 'ku- 
d/da a ba m sola ngako. Wa 
lal' end/de, wa ba imfene. 


Wa fika ngolunye usuku e se 
imfene, umuntu e lindile; kepa 
w' aAluleka ukulinda, wa lala. 
Imfene leyo ya ngena ensimini, ya 
d/da ya d/da, y' ezwa ukuba se 
y esuti ; ya hamba ya ya lapa lo 
'muntu e lele kona, y' apula ugo- 
noti lwebele, ya hamba nalo uku 
lw enza uswazi lwokuba i ze i m 
vuse ngalo ; ya kwela ekadbeni e 
lele ubutongo, ya m tshaya ngalo 
kakulu ; wa vuka ngokwetuka, wa 
kuza ; ya ba se y e/da ke, se i 
puma ensimini : wa kgalaza ukuti, 
" Hau ! Umuntu o ngi tshayileko 
u ye ngapi na ! " Wa bona i se 
y enyuka i ya eweni ; wa ti, " Ko- 
nje nga ba ngi tshaywa i yo le 'm- 
fene." W' e/da wa bona izinyawo 
zayo pansi kwekadba. Wa /dola 
insimu, wa fumana se i d/diwe. 


It is said, the baboon was a man 
of the nation of men who are 
called Amatusi. The nation from 
which it sprang is known. And 
to this day the Amafene say, the 
baboons descended from them. It is 
said, a man of that nation was a 
very great idler; he was disin- 
clined to do any kind of work ; he 
liked to eat what others had work- 
ed for ; but he was greatly troubled 
when men scolded him, and laugh- 
ed at him, and ridiculed him for 
his idleness : at length he took the 
handle of his hoe, and fastened it 
on behind, that he might become 
an animal, and eat by stealing the 
food, for which they scolded him. 
He slept in the open country, and 
became a baboon. 

He came one day, when he was 
now a baboon, where a man was 
watching ; but he got tired of 
watching, and went to sleep. The 
baboon entered the garden ; he ate 
and ate, until he felt satisfied ; he 
went to the place where the man 
was sleeping ; he broke off a reed 
of com ; he took it with him that 
he might use it as a switch for the 
purpose of arousing him ; he 
climbed into the watchhouse, he 
being asleep, and hit him hard 
with the reed; he woke with a 
start, and cried out with surprise ; 
the baboon at once descended from 
the watchhouse, and went out of 
the garden : he looked on this side 
and that, saying, " Hau ! Where 
has the man gone that struck 
me?" He saw the baboon now 
ascending the precipice, and said, 
"So then I was struck by that 
baboon." He descended, and saw 
the footprints below the watch- 
house. He examined the garden, 
and found it already wasted. 


180 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ku njalo ke ngemfene. Ku 
tiwa umuntu wakwatusi. Labo 
'bantu bakwatusi na nam/da nje 
ba se kona, abona ba penduka 
izimfene. Ku tshiwo njalonjalo, 
ku ti, uma izimfene zi kala eweni, 
z' enza umsindo, ku tiwe kubo 
ngokulaula, "Nampo abantu ba- 
kwini eweni, be kuluma." Noma 
zi d/da amasimu, ngoku ba laulela, 
ku tiwe, " Bani, tshela ni abantu 
bakwini laba, ba yeke ukud/da 
kwetu ; si ya zilimela ; nabo a ba 
lime njengati." 

I loko ke e ngi kw aziyo ngem- 
fene. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


Such, then, is the history of the 
baboon. It is said to be one of 
the Amatusi. The Amatusi still 
exist to the present time, the very 
people who became baboons. And 
when the baboons are crying on 
the precipice, and making a noise, 
it is continually said to them in 
jest, " Behold your people on the 
precipice, talking." Or if they 
have devoured the gardens, it is 
said in sport, "You So-and-so, tell 
those people of yours to leave alone 
our food ; we dig for ourselves ; 
and let them too dig for them- 
selves, as we do." 

This, then, is what I know about 
the baboon. 


It is quite noteworthy that among the Mussulmans there is a similar legend 
of the descent of apes from man : — 

" On one of Solomon's progresses from Jerusalem to Mareb, he passed 
through a valley inhabited by apes, which, however, dressed and lived like men, 
and had more comfortable dwellings than other apes, and even bore all kinds of 
weapons. He descended from his flying carpet, and marched into the valley 
with a few of his troops. The apes hurried together to drive him back, but one 
of their elders stepped forward and said, 4 Let us rather seek safety in submis- 
sion, for our foe is a holy prophet. ' Three apes were immediately chosen as 
ambassadors to negotiate with Solomon. He received them kindly, and inquired 
to which class of apes they belonged, and how it came to pass that they were 
so skilled in all human arts ? The ambassadors replied, 4 Be not astonished at 
us, for we are descended from men, and are the remnant of a Jewish com- 
munity, which, notwithstanding all admonition, continued to desecrate the 
Sabbath, until Allah cursed them, and turned them into apes.'" (Weil's 
Biblical Legends of the Mussulmans, p. 205 . ) 


APPENDIX (C). 

IZIMU ELA TOLWA UMASENDENI. 


(the CANNIBAL WHOM UMASENDENI RECEIVED INTO HIS HOUSE.) 

The following tale, told as an historical fact of comparatively modern times, 
bears so much resemblance to that of the slaughter of the grandmother of the 
izingogo, that it is inserted here : — * 


Umfo wetu, Umasendeni ibizo 
lake, wa tola umfokazi ; wa ti, 
"Ngi ku tolile ; Alala lapa ; izwe 
li ind/dala, ku nge ko amabele." 


My brother, whose name is Uma- 
sendeni, received a stranger into 
his house ; he said to him, " I 
have received you into my house ; 
stay here ; there is famine in the 
land ; there is no corn." So the 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


181 


Wa /Jala ke umfokazi, wa /Jala 
insukwana nje. Wa ti ngelinye 
ilanga, " Ngi ya fa nam/Ja. A 
ngi zi 'kupuma ngomzi lo." Wa 
e be e fa ebu/Jungu unina kama- 
sendeni. Kwa ti ukuba b' emuke 
abantu ekaya, wa mu bamba um- 
fokazi, wa m bulala, wa m peka 
ke, wa mu d/Ja ke. Wa m beka 
izitsha zonke, wa twala, wa hamba, 
w' emuka. Ya buya ke indodana, 
ya fika, ya funyana se ku kubi 
end/Jini ; ya fumana se kw ande 
inyama end/Jini. Ya kala ke, ya 
ti, " Woza ni, bantu ! ni ze 'ku 
ngi buka ; loku nank' um/Jola ; 
umame u d/Jiwe umfokazi, e be 
ngi m tolile." Ba butana ke 
ekaya. Ba ti, " Ku boni ke ] Si 
be si nga tshongo na, ukuti, 1 Li- 
zimu leli V Wa ti wena, umuntu 
wako. Wa ti, ' Ka 'zimu.' Sa 
ti, ' Lizimu,' tina." Wa m twala 
ke unina ngazo izitsha zonke, e ya 
'u m la/Ja ngezitsha. 

Umpondo Kambule (Aaron). 


stranger staid ; but lie staid only 
a few days. He said one day, I 
am ill to-day. I shall not go out 
from this kraal." Umasendeni's 
mother had been suffering from 
pain. When the people had left 
home, the stranger laid hold of her 
and killed her, and boiled her and 
ate her. He filled all the vessels 
with her, and loaded himself, and 
went on his way. Her son came 
back again, and found the house 
befouled ; he found that there was 
much flesh in the house. So he 
cried, saying, " Come ye, people ! 
come and look upon me ; for here 
is a prodigy ; my mother has been 
eaten by the stranger whom I took 
into my house." So they assem- 
bled in his house ; and said, " Do 
you not see then ] Did we not say 
this man was a cannibal] You 
said for your part, he was your 
dependent ; you denied that he 
was a cannibal. We said, on our 
part, that he was a cannibal." So 
he carried out his mother in all 
those vessels, and went and buried 
her in them. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


The birth of UmJcxaJcaza. 


Kwa ku kona inkosi etile ; ya 
zala umntwana ; w' etiwa igama, 
kwa tiwa U mk.xakaza - wakogi- 
ng^wayo. Loko kwa ku tshiwo 
ngokuba kwa ku puma impi i kcca- 
kaza izikali, w' etiwa ukuti Um- 
kxakaza ; nokuti o wakoging^wa- 
yo, kwa ku tshiwo ngokuba impi 


There was a certain king ; he 
had a child ; her name was Um- 
kccakaza-wakoginggwayo . 18 That 
name was given because an army 
went out to battle rattling wea- 
pons, and so she was named Um- 
k.xakaza ; and further the name 
Wakoginggwayo was given* because 


18 U mJcxakaza-walcogingqivayo. — The-rattler-of-weapons-of-the-place-of -the- 
rolling-of-the-slain. 


182 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ya gwaza kakulu abantu, kwa 
tiwa se be ginggika nje ; kwa 
tshiwo ke ukuti wakoginggwayo. 
Kwa buye kwa zalwa omunye 
umntwana ; w' etiwa igama, kwa 
tiwa TJbalatusi, ngokuba wa e nga 
ti u fana netusi. 

Her father's 

Wa ti Umkccakaza lapa e se 
kula, wa ti uyise, " Bheka, wena, 
umAlana u tombayo ku ya 'ubutwa 
izinkomo eziningi zokuza uku ku 
buyisa ; ngokuba ezako izinkomo 
zi ya 'ud/diwa ngemikonto, ku 
Alaselwe ezizweni ezi kude, zi fike 
zi kcime ilanga." 


U mk'K.akaza 

Wa za wa kula TJmkccakaza. 
Wa ti e nabanye bodwa end/de wa 
ba tshela ukuti, " Ngi tombile." 
Za jabula izintombi, za gijima, za 
ya emizini yonke, zi mema ezinye 
intombi ; za fika, za Alala kuyena ; 
za buye z' esuka, za m shiya, za ya 
ekaya, za ya 'upanga umuzi wonke. 

The size of the town 


the army killed very many men, 
and when they were rolled alto- 
gether on the ground, she was 
named Wakoginggwayo* Again 
he had another child ; she was 
named TJbalatusi , 19 because she 
resembled brass. 

"ash promise. 

When TJmkccakaza was growing 
up, her father said, " Look you, 
on the day when you are of age 
there shall be collected many 
cattle for the purpose of bringing 
you home ; 20 for the cattle which 
shall be brought to you shall be 
taken at the point of the spear, 
and forays be made into distant 
nations, and when they come they 
will darken the sun." 

's maturity. 

At length she came to maturity. 
When she was with others in the 
open country she said to them, " I 
am of age." The damsels rejoiced, 
and ran to all the villages, calling 
other damsels ; they came and re- 
mained with her ; again they left 
her and went home, going to 
plunder the whole village . 21 

in vihich she dwelt. 


Kepa umuzi wa umkulu ngoku- 
ngenakulinganiswa, ngokuba izin- 
d/tlu zawo za zi nga balwa ; ngo- 
kuba umuntu, uma e memeza, e 


But the town was immeasurably 
large ; for the rows of its houses 
could not be counted, for if a man 
standing in the middle of the 


19 TJbalatusi . — Composed of um-bala, " a colour and i-tusi, "brass." The 
brass-coloured one. 

20 Ukubuyisa . — When a princess royal comes of age, she quits her father's 
home, and goes out into the wilds, from which she is brought back by having a 
bullock slaughtered on her account. Other girls tell her parents where she is ; 
and all law and order are at an end ; and each man, woman, and child lays hold 
on any article of property which may be at hand, assagais, shields, mats, pots, 
&c. The king says nothing, it being a day of such general rejoicing, that it is 
regarded as improper to find fault with any one. If during this reign of mis- 
rule, any thing is taken which the chief really values, he can obtain it again 
only by paying a fine. 

21 See preceding note. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


183 


pakati esibayeni, ngalapa kwoAla- 
ngoti be be ng' ezwa uma u kona 
umuntu o memeza esibayeni ; ngo- 
kuba umuntu uma e vela okalweni 
u be ti imizi eminingi, kanti umuzi 
munye. 

UmTcxakaza despises 

Za buya izintombi, za ya ku- 
yena Umk^akaza. B' etuka aba 
sekaya ngokubona izintombi zi zo- 
'panga ; ba ti, " U tombile um- 
ntwana wenkosi." Uyise wa kipa 
amashumi amabili okuya 'ku m 
buyisa end/de. Wa fike Umkrra- 
kaza, wa ti, " A ngi boni 'luto." 
Kwa pindelwa ekaya ; wa fike 
uyise, wa kipa amashumi amane ; 
ba ya nawo kumkxakaza ; wa ti 
Umkrcakaza, " A ngi boni 'luto." 
Ba pindela ekaya. Wa fika uyise, 
wa kipa ikulu. Wa ti, "Hamba 
ni nalo." Ba hamba, ba fika kum- 
k:rakaza. Wa ti Umfcrakaza, 
" Nan si inAlamvu yelanga." Ba 
pindela ekaya. 


A larger offering is 


cattle-enclosure shouted, people 
standing on one side could not 
hear that there was any one shout- 
ing in the cattle-enclosure ; for a 
man standing on the top of a hill 
would say it was many villages, 
when in reality it was but one. 

Tier father's offering. 

The damsels returned to Um- 
krakaza. The people at home 
wondered when they saw the dam- 
sels coming to plunder ; they 
shouted, " The king's child is of 
age." The king selected twenty 
head of cattle to go and bring her 
back from the open country. But 
Umkccakaza said, " I do not see 
anything." They were taken home 
again. Then the father selected 
forty; they went with them to 
Umkajakaza ; Umkxakaza said, "I 
do not see anything." They went 
home again. Her father selected 
a hundred, and said, " Go with 
them." They went with them to 
Umkxakaza. Umkscakaza said, 
" There is the globe of the sun." 
They returned home. 

xde, but still despised. 


Kepa abantu bonke pakati kwe- 
sizwe sikayise ba be gijima nen- 
komo, bonke be ti, " IJ tombile 
Umkxakaza-wakoginggwayo." Ku 
te uma ba fike labo aba be yisile 
izinkomo kumkscakaza, ba fika ba 
nikwa amakulu amabili ; ba ya 
nawo. Wa fike wa ti Umkicakaza, 
" Ngi sa li bona ilanga. Kwo ze 
ku kcitshwe ilanga njengokutsho 
kukababa." Ba buya ba ya enko- 
sini. Kwa fike kwa gijinyiswa 


But all the men belonging to 
her father's tribe were running 
with cattle, shouting, " Umkxa- 
kaza-wakoginggwayo is of age." 
When those who had taken the 
cattle to TJmkrakaza returned, 
they were given two hundred ; 
they went with them ; Umksca- 
kaza said, "I still see the sun. 
Until the sun is darkened accord- 
ing to my father's saying [I will 
not return ."] 22 They returned to 
the king. Men ran to the whole 

Such elliptical 


22 It is necessary to add these words to complete the sense, 
modes of expression are common in Zulu. 

z 


184 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


abantu ezweni lonke, be tata izin- 
komo kubantu bakayise, nezikayise 
za /danganiswa, za yiswa 'ndawo 
nye zonke. Wa ti Umkrakaza, 
" Ngi sa li bona ilanga." Ba buya 
ba ya ekaya. 

Again she despises a 

Kwa fike kwa kitshwa impi ; ya 
ya 'ku zi dAla ezizweni ; ya buya 
nazo. Za yiswa. Wa fike wa ti 
Umkrakaza, " Ngi ya li bona 
ilanga." Kwa buye kwa kitsbwa 
impi ; ya buya nenkulungwane 
eziningi Wa fike wa ti Urnkcca- 
kaza, u ya li bona ilanga. 


nation, taking the cattle from her 
father's people, and the cattle of 
her father were collected and all 
brought to one place. Umkaja- 
kaza said, " I still see the sun." 
They returned home. 

still larger offering. 

An army was levied ; it went 
to spoil foreign nations of their 
cattle, and came back with them. 
They were brought to Umkxakaza. 
She said, "I still see the sun." 
Another army was levied, and 
returned with many thousand. 
But Umkrakaza said, she still saw 
the sun. 


The army sent to obtain cattle fall in with Usilosimapundu. 


Kwa puma impi futi. Ba ha- 
mba, ba ya, ba fika ba zi bona 
izinkomo zi d/da esigodini esikulu 
kakulu. A ba zi balanga uma za 
zi 'makulu 'mangaki na. Kepa 
kwa ku kona nezim/dope nezimtoto 
nezinsundu nezimnyama nezibo- 
mvu ; ezinye impondo zi bheke 
pansi ; ezinye impondo zi pume za 
kccega ; kwenye lu pume lu be 
lunye ; zi nemibala eminingi. Kepa 
kwa ku kona isilwanyazane esikulu 
si /dezi ngapezulu kwaso leso 'si- 
godi esa si nezinkomo ; igama laso 
kwa ku Usilosimapundu. Kwa 
ku tshiwo ngokuba kwa ku kona 
izintaba namapunzu ezintatshana 
ezincane ; kwa tshiwo ukuti Usi- 
losimapundu. Kepa kwa ku kona 
ngenrcenye kwaso imifula emikulu ; 
ngemrenye kwa ama/dati amakulu ; 
ngenccenye kwa arnawa amakulu ; 
ngemrenye kwa ku senkangala nje. 


Again an army was levied. 
They set out, and at length saw 
some cattle feeding in a very large 
valley. They did not count how 
many hundred they were. But 
there were both white and dun, 
and brown, and black, and red ; 
the horns of some were directed 
downwards ; 23 the horns of others 
were moveable ; 24 others had only 
one horn. They were of various 
colours. And there was a very 
huge beast sitting on the hills 
overhanging that valley, where 
were the cattle. The name of the 
beast was Usilosimapundu . 25 It 
was so called because there were 
hills, and elevations of little hills 
(upon it) ; and so it was named 
Usilosimapundu. And there was 
on one side of it many rivers ; and 
on another side great forests ; and 
on another side great precipices; 
and on another side it was open 
high land. 


23 Cattle whose horns hang down are called imidhlovu. 

24 These are called amahlawe. 

25 Usilosimapundu . — A beast covered with small elevations. The rugose, 
nodulated, beast. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


185 


Usilosimapundu' s officers. 


Kepa pakati kwemiti yonke eya 
i kona kuleso 'silwane, kwa ku 
kona imiti emibili, ya i mide ka- 
kulu pezu kwemiti yonke ; ama- 
gama ayo kwa ku Imidoni yom- 
bili. Kwa ku i yona ku izinduna 
zikasilosimapundu. 


And amidst all the trees which 
were on the beast, there were two 
trees ; they were very much higher 
than all the rest ; they were both 
named Imidoni. 26 It was they 
who were the officers of Usilosi- 
mapundu. 


The soldiers contemn Usilosimapundu, and are threatened. 


Wa ti Usilosimapundu lapa e i 
bona impi i kguba izinkomo, wa 
ti, " Lezo — lezo 'iikomo e ni zi 
kgubayo ezikabani na ? " Ba ti, 
"Yiya; a si suke lesi 'silosima- 
pundu." Wa ti, " Eh, eh ! Ha- 
mba ni nazo ke." 


When Usilosimapundu saw the 
army driving away the cattle, he 
said, " Those — those cattle which 
you are driving away, to whom do 
they belong 1 " They replied, 
" Out on you ; let the rugose beast 
get out of the way." He replied, 
" Eh, eh ! Go off with them 
then." 27 


Description of Usilosimapundu. 


Kepa kuyena kwa ku bonakala 
iimlomo wodwa name/do ; ubuso 
bake ba bu idwala. Kepa umlomo 
umkulu, ubanzi kakulu, kepa ubo- 
mvu ; kwamanye amazwe a sem- 
zimbeni kuyena kwa ku sebusika \ 
kwamanye ku sekwin/da. Kepa 
kowokwake konke loko. 


But as regards the beast there 
appeared only a mouth and eyes ; 
his face was a rock ; and his mouth 
was very large and broad, but it 
was red ; in some countries which 
were on his body it was winter ; 
and in others it was early harvest. 
But all these countries were in 
him. 28 


26 Water-boom. 

27 " Eh, eh ! go off with them then." — These words are to be regarded as a 
threat. They mean, Very well, I let you take them now, but see to it, you will 
suffer for it by and bye. 

28 We are forcibly reminded of Milton's description of Leviathan, which, 

" Hugest of living things, on the deep 
Stretched like a promontory, sleeps or swims, 

And seems a moving land." 

This fabulous animal of the Zulus " seems a moving land." It may pos- 
sibly have some connection with the notion found among other people that the 
world is an animal. A similar one appears now and then, but not in a definite 
form, to crop out in the thoughts of the natives of this country. Some parts of 
this account would lead us to suppose that the basis of the legend is a tra- 
ditional recollection of a landslip, or some extensive convulsion of the earth. 

We may compare this beast overgrown with trees, &c., with Es-sindibad's 
great fish. The captain says : — " This apparent island, upon which you are, is 
not really an island, but it is a great fish that hath become stationary in the 
midst of the sea, and the sand hath accumulated upon it ; so that it hath be- 


186 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The cattle at length da/rken the s 

Ba zi kguba ke izinkoino zikasi- 
losimapundu. Ba ti be ya nazo 
ngasekaya, kwa ku nga ti li za 
'kuna, ngokuba ilanga nezulu kwa 
ku nga bonakali; ku site utuli 
lwazo. Ba ze ba ti, " Hau ! loku 
izulu be li sile, le 'nkungu i vela 
pi e si nga sa boni i yona na 1 " 
Ba buy a ba bona uma kw* enza 
utuli ; ba vela ngasekaya. Kepa 
ba bona kumnyama, a ba be be sa 
zi bona inkomo ; ba ye ba zi sa 
kumkccakaza. Wa fike wa ti, 
"Nazi ke ezi kcima ilanga." 


Umkxakaza 

Ba buya ke ba ya ekaya. Wa 
fika umgongo se w akiwe, wa pela, 
nencapa se y endAlelwe. Wa fika, 
ba ngena nentombi, ba /Jala em- 
gongweni. 


m, and Umkxakaza is satisfied. 

They drove off the cattle of Usi- 
losimapundu. As they were going 
with them near home, it was as if 
it was going to rain, for neither 
sun nor heaven appeared ; they 
were concealed by the dust raised 
by the cattle. At length they said, 
" Hau ! since the sky was clear, 
whence comes this mist through 
which we are no longer able to 
see 1 " Again they saw that it 
was occasioned by the dust ; they 
came near home ; and they saw it 
was dark, they could no longer see 
the cattle; they took them to Um- 
krakaza. She said, " Behold then 
the cattle which darken the sun." 

'eturns home. 

So they went home again. On 
her arrival the umgon^o 29 was 
already completed, and the incapa 
spread on the ground. She en- 
tered the umgongo with the dam- 
sels, and remained there. 


There is universal rejoicing. 


Kepa bonke abantu aba be pu- 
mile impi, a ku ko namunye 
pakati kwabo owa e nga i ^labile 
inkomo; bonke kulowo e Alabe 
eyake inkomo. Kepa eziningi 
izinkomo a zi Alinzwanga ngobu- 
ningi bazo. La ti igwababa la 


And as for all the men who had 
gone out with the army, there was 
not one among them who had not 
killed a bullock ; every one in the 
town killed his own bullock. But 
many of the cattle were not skin- 
ned because they were so many. 
The crow skinned for itself ; the 


come like an island, and trees have grown upon it since times of old." And 
with the huge tortoise, " upon whose back earth collected in the length of time, 
so that it became like land, and produced plants." (Lane's Arabian Nights. 
Vol. III., p. 6 and p. 19.) Compare also the monster Ugunggu-kubantwana 
(p. 176) ; and " the Unkulunkulu of beneath," who has a forest growing on one 
side, given below. 

29 Umgonqo is a small hut or chamber erected within a house, in which a 
girl when of age is placed. She is kept there for one, two, or three months, 
and fed for the purpose of making her fat ; but if there should be a scarcity of 
food, she may be allowed to go out at the end of a few weeks. Umkxakaza is 
represented as remaining in the umgonqo for several years. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


187 


ziAlinzela ; namankge a zi/dinzela ; 
nezinja za ziAlinzela. Kwa nuka 
inyama yodwa pakati kwesizwe. 
Kodwa ku nga Alatshwa kuzona 
ezikasilosimapundu ; ku Alatshwa 
kulezi zikayise. 


All the people go to dig in the roy< 

her sist 

Wa Alala iminyaka e nga balwa 
emgongweni. Abantu a ba be be 
sa m azi; w' aziwa intombi zodwa, 
ngokuba za z' ala uma abantu 
b' eze emgon^weni ; ba ti aba nge- 
nile endAlini, ba Alale nje, be nga 
m boni e Alezi pakati emgongweni. 
Ku te ngesikati eside ba ti bonke 
abantu, " A ku ze 'kuti e nga ka 
pumi Umkccakaza, ku hanjwe ku 
yiwe embutisweni wenkosi." Ba 
vuma bonke abantu, ngokuba ba 
be ti, " Ku ya 'kuba ' buAlungu 
uma be vuna e se pumile, ngokuba 
ku ya 'kwenziwa utshwala esizweni 
sonke." Kwa ti e s' eza 'upuma, 
kwa vukwa ekuseni kakulu abantu 
bonke ; kepa ekaya lapa kubo, 
kwa ku kona utshwala umuzi 
wonke ; enccenye bu voviwe, euxe- 
nye bu vutshelwa, emcenye bu isi- 
jingi. Kwa sa ba hamba ke bonke 
abantn ; kwa sala yena nodade 
wabo ekaya. Kepa umbutiso wen- 
kosi wa u kude kakulu ; be vuka 
be ti u kona be ya 'ubuya masinya 
kusiAlwa. 


There is thunder < 

Kwa ti so ku isikati be mukile, 
b' ezwa ku duma izulu, kwa zama- 

30 Umbutiso, the royal garden, in v 
sow for the king. 


vultures skinned for themselves; 
and the dogs skinned for them- 
selves. There was no other smell 
but that of meat throughout the 
whole nation. But the cattle of 
Usilosimapundu were not slaugh- 
tered, but those belonging to her 
father. 

I garden , leaving XI mkxakaza and 
r alone. 

She remained uncounted years 
in the umgon^o. The people no 
longer knew her ; she was known 
only by the damsels, for they 
would not allow people to enter 
the umgon^o ; and those who en- 
tered the house merely sat down 
without seeing her, she remaining 
inside the umgon^o. It happened 
after a long time all the people 
said, "Before Umkasakaza come 
out, let all the people go to the 
royal garden ." 30 All the people 
agreed, for they had said, " It will 
be painful to harvest after she has 
come out, for beer will be made 
throughout the whole tribe." It 
happened when she was about to 
go out, all the people rose very 
early in the morning ; but at her 
father's there was beer in the 
whole village ; in one place it was 
strained ; in another it was mixed 
with malt ; in another it was soak- 
ing. In the morning all the people 
set out; there remained herself 
and her sister only at home. But 
the royal garden was very far off ; 
when they arose they thought 
that by arising early they could 
return early in the evening. 

ad an earthquake. 

Some time after their departure 
Umk^akaza and her sister heard 

rich all the tribe assembles to dig and 


188 


12INGANEKWANE. 


zama um/dabati na sendAlini lapa 
be Alezi kona. Wa ti Umkxakaza, 
" Ak' u pume u bone, balatusi, 
uma ini leyo na, izulu ukuduma 
be li balele kangaka." Wa puma 
Ubalatusi, wa bona ku mi i/dati 
esangweni ; a ka be e sa bona uma 
isango li ma pi na. Wa ngena 
end/dini, wa ti, " U za 'ubona, 
mntanenkosi, ku kulu ku sesa- 
ngweni ; utango nganxanye lw apu- 
kile, so lu lele pansi nje." 


the heaven thundering, and the 
earth moved even in the very 
house where they were sitting. 
Umkrakaza said, "Just go out 
and see, Ubalatusi, what this is, 
the heaven to thunder when it was 
so bright ? " Ubalatusi went out, 
and saw a forest standing at the 
entrance of the village, and she 
could no longer see where the 
entrance was. She came into the 
house, and said, " You mil see, 
child of the king, there is some- 
thing huge at the gateway ; the 
fence is broken down on one side, 
and is now just lying on the 
ground." 


They are visited by strange guests. 

Kwa ti be sa kuluma, kwa se i As they were speaking, two 
kw apuka amak^abunga amabili | leaves 31 broke olf from the Imi- 

31 Speaking Trees are heard of in the legends of other people ; but I know 
of none in which any such personal action is ascribed to them as here. In the 
Amanzi stories, collected among the negroes of the West Indies, we read of a 
Doukana Tree which was covered with fruit ; a lazy man went daily to this tree 
alone and ate the fruit, but never took any home to his wife and children. 
When one only was left, it is represented as assuming the power of volition, and 
effectually eluding all his efforts to catch it. ( Dasent. Popular Tales from 
the Norse , p. 503.) In the same stories, the trees cry out " Shame " when the 
lion is about to devour the woman who had set him free (p. 490 ). 

Shakspeare makes Macbeth say, 

" Stones have been known to move and trees to speak 
Augurs." 

Comp. " Prince Hatt, or the Three Singing Leaves." Thorpe's Yule-thle 
Stories, p. 17. Also "The Two Caskets," p. 99; and "Temptations," p. 369. 
— " The Two Step-sisters." Dasent., p. 134. 

Comp, also Hiawatha's appeal to the different forest-trees to give him the 
materials for building a canoe, and their answers. ( Longfellow. ) And the ad- 
dress "of the green reed, the nurse of sweet music, divinely inspired by a 
gentle breeze of air," to Psyche. (Apuleius, p. Wl.) 

We close this note on speaking trees by the following extract from the tale 
of "Lilia Rosa" : — "One day, while wandering on the sea-shore, she found the 
head and leg of a fawn that had been killed by the wild beasts. As the flesh 
was still fresh, she took the leg and set it on a pole, that the little birds might 
see it the better, and come and feed upon it. She then lay down on the earth, 
and slept for a short time, when she was wakened by a sweet song, more beau- 
tiful than anything that can be imagined. Lilia Rosa listened to the delightful 
notes, and thought she was dreaming ; for nothing so exquisite had she ever 
heard before. On looking around her, she saw that the leg which she had placed 
as food for the little fowls of heaven was changed to a verdant linden, and the 
fawn's head to a little nightingale sitting on the linden's summit. But every 
single small leaf of the tree gave forth a sweet sound, so that their tones toge- 
ther composed a wondrous harmony ; and the little nightingale sat among them 
and sang his lay so beautifully, that all who might hear it would certainly have 
imagined themselves in heaven." (Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p. 43.) 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


189 


emidonini, a fika end/dini lapa be 
/dezi kona. A fike a ti, " Tata 
isigubu, balatusi, u ye 'kuka 'ma- 
nzi emfuleni." Wa tata isigubu, 
wa ya emfuleni. A h\ ala e m 
bhekile Ubalatusi. Kepa emfuleni 
wa kelela isigubu, s' egcwala, 
kw' ala uma 'esuke. A ze a ti 
amak^abunga, " Puma, mkccakaza, 
u hambe u fune amanzi ekaya 
lapa." Wa ti, " Ngi tombile ; a 
ngi pumi emgon^weni." A ti, " Si 
ze s' azi ukuba u tombile ; kepa si 
ti, Puma, u ye 'kuka amanzi." 
Wa puma wa ye, wa wa ka amanzi 
kwenye ind^lu, wa buya nawo. 
A ti amakgabunga a ti, " Pemba." 
Wa ti, " A ngi kw azi ukupemba." 
A ti amak^abunga, "Si ze s' azi 
uma a u kw azi ukupemba ; kepa 


doni, and entered the house where 
they were sitting. On their arrival 
they said, " Take a water-vessel, 
Ubalatusi, and go and fetch water 
from the river." She took the 
water- vessel and went to the river. 
They sat waiting for Ubalatusi. 
But at the river she dipped * water 
into the water-vessel ; when it was 
full she was unable to leave the 
place . 32 At length the leaves 
said, " Go out, Umkccakaza, and 
look for water here at home." 
She said, " I am of age, and I do 
not yet quit the umgong'o ." 33 
They replied, "We already knew 
that you were of age ; but we say, 
Go and fetch water." She went 
and fetched water from another 
house, and came back with it. 
The leaves said, "Light a fire." 
She replied, " I cannot light a fire." 
They said, "We already knew 
that you could not light a fire ; 


32 This inability to move from being spell-bound is common in the nursery 
tales of all countries. In the tales of the North is a story of a bride who had 
been separated from the bridegroom ; whilst waiting for him she is annoyed by 
the importunity of other lovers. She gives them permission to come one at a 
time by night, but before retiring to her chamber, sends them to do something 
for her, to lock the door, to fasten the gate, or to tie up the calf ; and by a spell 
fastens them to the object till morning, ('See Thorpe. Yule-tide Stories. 
" The King's Son and the Princess Singorra," p. 218.-— "Goldmaria and Gold- 
feather," p. 449. — Campbell. Op. cit. "The Battle of the Birds." Vol. I., 
p. 3 6.J The girl who attempts to steal a few feathers from Dummling's golden 
goose, has her hand and fingers instantly fixed to it ; and all who approach and 
touch her are in like manner fixed, and are compelled to follow Dummling in a 
long line wherever he wishes to go. ( Grimm. Op. cit., p. 282. "The Golden 
Goose. ") Marama-kiko-hura by her enchantments fixed a boat so firmly to the 
earth that no human strength could move it. ( Sir George Grey. Op. cit., p. 
145. J 

The master smith's three wishes all refer to this power of binding others by 
a spell. " Well," said the smith, "first and foremost, I wish that any one 
whom I ask to climb up into the pear-tree that stands outside by the wall of my 
forge, may stay sitting there till I ask him to come down again. The second 
which I wish is, that any one whom I ask to sit down in my easy chair which 
stands inside the workshop yonder, may stay sitting there till I ask him to get 
up. Last of all, I wish that any one whom I ask to creep into the steel purse 
which I have in my pocket, may stay in it till I give him leave to creep out 
again." (Dasent. Popular Tales from the Norse , p. 123. Compare "The 
Mastermaid," p. 96.^ 

33 Compare this treatment of Umkccakaza with the method adopted by 
Hacon Grizzlebeard to subdue " the proud and pert princess for whom no suitor 
was good enough." (Dasent. Popular Tales from the Norse, p. 50.) 


190 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


si ti, Pemba." Wa pemba. A ti 
amak^abunga, " Tata ikanzi, u li 
beke eziko." Wa ti Umkasakaza, 
" A ngi kw azi ukupeka." A ti 
amak^abunga, " Si ze s' azi uma a 
u kw azi ukupeka ; kepa si ti, 
Peka." Wa li beka eziko, wa tela 
amanzi. A ti amak^abunga, " Ha- 
mba, u yo'kcapuna amabele esilu- 
lwini kwenu, u zo'utela lapa eziko." 
Wa ye wa wa kcapuna amabele, 
wa tela eziko. A Alala ; za vutwa 
izinkobe. A ti, " Zibukula ilitshe, 
u gaye izinkobe." Wa ti, " A ngi 
kw azi ukugaya, ng' umntwana 
wenkosi. Bheka ni," — e ba tshe- 
ngisa izand/da, ngokuba inzipo 
zake za zinde kakulu. La tata 
umkonto, la ti, " Leti izand/da 
lapa kumina." La zi n^rnia inzipo 
ngomkonto, la ti, " Gaya ke." Wa 
ti Umkicakaza, "A ngi kw azi, 
ng' umntwana wenkosi." A ti 
amakgabunga, " Si ze s' azi uma a 
u kw azi ukugaya, nokuba u um- 
ntwana wenkosi." L' esuka elinye 
ikgabunga, la zibukula ilitshe, la 
tata imbokondo, la tata inkobe, la 
gaya, la ti, " Bheka, ku tiwa uku- 
gaya." L' esuka, la ti, " Gaya." 
Wa gaya umkcaba, wa muningi 
kakulu. A ti, " Tata isikamba 
sakwenu samasi, u beke lapa." 
Wa si tata. A ti, " Tata ukamba 
olukulu, u beke lapa." Wa lu 
tata. A ti amak^abunga, " Lu 
geze." Wa lu geza. A ti ama- 
k^abunga, " Hamba u kete igula 
elikulu emaguleni akwenu, u lete 


but we say, Light a fire." She 
lighted a fire. The leaves said, 
" Take a cooking-pot and place it 
on the hearth." Umkxakaza said, 
" I cannot cook." The leaves re- 
plied, "We already knew that you 
could not cook ; but we say, 
Cook." She put the pot on the 
fire, and poured water into it. 
The leaves said, " Go and bring 
some corn from your corn-basket, 
and come and pour it into the pot." 
She went and fetched some corn, 
and put it on the fire. They sat ; 
the corn was boiled. They said, 
" Turn up the millstone, and grind 
the boiled corn." She replied, " I 
cannot grind, I am the king's 
child. Look here," — showing 
them her hands, for her nails were 
very long . 34 One of the leaves 
took a knife and said, "Hand 
hither your hand to me." It cut 
off the nails with the knife, and 
said, " Now grind." U mkxakaza 
said, " I cannot grind ; I am the 
king's child." The leaves said, 
"We already knew that you could 
not grind, and that you were the 
king's child." One of the leaves 
arose and turned up the millstone, 
and took the upper stone, and put 
the boiled corn on it and ground 
it, and said, " See, that is called 
grinding." It quitted the stone, 
and said, " Grind." She ground a 
large mass of corn. They said, 
" Take your pot of amasi, and put 
it here." She took it. They said, 
" Take a large pot and place it here." 
She took it. The leaves said, 
"Wash it." She washed it. The 
leaves said, " Go and pick out the 
milk calabash from your cala- 
bashes, and bring it here." Um- 


34 Chiefs and great men allow their nails to grow long ; such long nails are 
regarded as honourable. But women are not allowed to have long nails, as they 
would interfere with their work. Umkxakaza being the chief's child, has 
allowed her nails to grow. Cutting the nails is a reproof for her idleness and 
uselessness. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


191 


lapa." Wa ti Umkxakaza, " Igula 
lakwetu likulu ; ngi nge ze nga li 
tata ngedwa. Li tatwa abantu 
abatatu." A ti amakyabunga, 
" Hamba, si bambe nawe." Ba 
puma ba hamba, ba fika ba li tata 
igula, b' eza nalo. A ti, "Li 
tulule." Wa sondeza isikamba, ba 
li tululela kona, na kulolo ukamba 
ba tululela kulona. Ba tata im- 
benge, ba tela umkcaba ; ba tata 
enye imbenge, ba zibekela umkca- 
ba. Ba buya ba tata enye im- 
benge, ba zibekela amasi a soka- 
mbeni. La tata ukezo, la lw eleka 
ngapezulu kwembenge ; la tata 
ukamba namasi, li yisa kusilosi- 
mapundu. 


kafikaza said, " Our milk-calabash 
is large ; I cannot carry it alone. 
It is carried by three men," The 
leaves said, " Go, and we will go 
with you." They went and fetched 
the calabash, and came back with 
it. The leaves said, " Empty it." 
She brought the pot near, and they 
poured the amasi into it ; they 
also poured it into the large pot. 
They took a basket, and placed in 
it some of the ground corn ; 
they took another basket and 
placed it on the top of the ground 
com. Again they took another 
basket, and covered the amasi 
which was in the pot. One of the 
leaves took a spoon, and put it on 
the top of the basket ; and took 
the pot and the amasi to Usilosi- 
mapundu. 


Usilosimapundu's eating. 


La fika kuyena, wa tata umkca- 
ba kanye nembenge kanye nem- 
benge e zibekela umkcaba ; wa 
kamisa, wa ku faka esiswini, lezo 
'mbenge zombili nomkcaba. Wa 
buye wa tata amasi e zitshekelwe 
ngembenge, wa faka esiswini ka- 
nye konke nokezo. 


When the leaf came to him, he 
took the ground com together with 
the basket, and together with the 
basket which covered the ground 
com ; he opened his mouth, and 
put it in his stomach, both the 
two baskets and the ground corn. 
Again he took the amasi which 
was covered with the basket, and 
put it all at once into his stomach, 
together with the spoon. 


The leaves force Umkxakaza to eat amasi. 


L' enyuka la ya la ngena en- 
d/tlini, la ti, " Yetula inkezo ezin- 
tatu." La ti, " Mina, nant' ukezo ; 
yidAla, si dAle." Wa ti Umkra- 
kaza, " A ngi wa d/di mina amasi, 


The leaf went up again and en- 
tered the house. It said, " Take 
down three spoons." It said, "Look 
here, here is a spoon ; eat, and we 
will eat with you." Umkxakaza 
said, " For my part, I do not eat 
amasi, for I am still under the 


A A 


192 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngokuba ngi tombile." A ti ama- 
k^abimga, "Si ze s' azi ukuba u 
tombile, a u wa dAli amasi ; kepa 
si ti, Yid/da." Wa kala Umkxa- 
kaza-wakoginggwayo, e ti, " Hau ! 
We mame ! ubani o za 'kud/da 
amasi e tombile na 1 " E tsho 
ngokuba kwa ku ya 'kuti, um/dana 
e wa d/dayo, ku /datshwe izinkabi 
eziningi, ngokuba e wa nikwa 
uyise ka/de. A ti amakgubunga, 
" Yid/da masinya." Wa tata 
ukezo ; ba d/da, ba k^eda. 


obligations of puberty." 35 The 
leaves said, "We already knew 
that you were of age, and that you 
did not yet eat amasi ; but we say, 
Eat." Umkccakaza-wakoginggwayo 
cried, saying, " Hau ! O ! my 
mother ! who would eat amasi 
before the ceremonies of puberty 
are completed?" She said this 
because when she should eat amasi 
many oxen would be slaughtered, 
because it would be given her 
properly by her father. The leaves 
said, " Eat immediately." She 
took a spoon ; they ate all the 
amasi. 


They spoil the village , and Ueilosimapundu devours everything in it. 


'Euka a ya endMini e sesangwe- 
ni. A fike a kipa izimbiza ezi 
notskwala, ezinye zi nesijingi, na- 
makcansi, nezitebe ; konke oku 
send/dini a yisa esangweni. Loku 
umuzi wa umkulu, a kipa umuzi 
wonke izinto, e nga shiyi nalunye 
uluto end/dini. Ku te lapa e se 
ya 'kukipa kabo-mkccakaza, wa ti 
Umk&'akaza, " Ni ze ni ngi shiyele 
umpanjana, u semsamo, u vune- 
kiwe ; no'ubona mncane." A ya a 
kipa; a shiya izimbiza ezinkulu 
kakulu zi notshwala obu voviwe ; 
a shiya wona ke umpanjana. 
'Euka a ya esangweni. Konke 


The leaves went down to the 
house which was near the gate- 
way. As soon as they arrived, 
they took out the pots containing 
beer, and pots which contained the 
boiled meal, and mats and vessels ; 
everything that was in the house 
they took to the gateway. And 
though the village was large, they 
took out the things from the whole 
village, and did not leave anything 
in a single house. When they 
were about to take the things from 
the house of Uxnkasakaza's mother, 
Umkxakaza said, "Just leave for 
me the little pot, 36 it is in the 
upper part of the house, it is luted 
down with cowdung ; you will see 
it, it is little." They went and 
took out the things ; but they left 
the very large pots which contain- 
ed beer which was strained ; 37 
they left too the little pot. They 
went down to -the gateway. 


35 That is, she had not quitted the umgon^o, and was still bound by the 
customs which are observed on coming to puberty, one of which is, that the 
young woman is not to eat amasi until she is called by her father to quit the 
umgongo. When she comes out, they slaughter for her a bullock ( inkomo yo- 
kwemula ), the caul of which is placed over her shoulders and breasts ; the head 
is shaved, and the whole body bathed ; she dances, and then she can eat amasi. 

30 The .natives, not having boxes or cupboards, keep their ornaments, &c., 
in pots, or in sacks made of skins. 

37 " Beer which was strained," — that is, already fit for use. 


UMKXAKAZA WAKOGING QWAYO. 


193 


loko okwa kitshwa kulowo 'muzi 
wa ku d/da, wa ku kgeda Usilosi- 
mapundu. Kodwa wa e nga hi a- 
funi, wa e gwinya nje. 


Everything that was taken out of 
the village Usilosimapundu en- 
tirely ate up. But he did not 
chew it, he merely swallowed it. 


The leaves drink. 


Kwa ze kwa pela izinto ezi 
kitshwe kulowo 'muzi, e ng' esuta- 
nga Usilosimapundu. 'Enyuka 
amakgabunga, a fika, a ngena en- 
d/dini lapa e shiye kona izimbiza 
ezimbili ezi notshwala ; 1' esuka 
elinye ik^abunga, la ponseka kwe- 
nye imbiza, nelinye la ponseka 
kwenye. Kepa ekupumeni kwawo 
ezimbizeni amakgabunga, izimbiza 
zombili za zi ze. A zi tata, a zi 
yisa esangweni kusilosimapundu. 
Wa fika wa zi tata zombili, wa zi 
faka emlonyeni, wa gwinya. 


At length all the things which 
were in that village were taken 
out, but Usilosimapundu was not 
satisfied. The leaves went up and 
entered the houses where they had 
left two pots of beer ; one of the 
leaves threw itself into one of the 
pots, and the other cast itself into 
the other ; and when the two 
leaves came out of the pots, both 
pots were empty. They took them 
and carried them to the ' gateway 
to Usilosimapundu. He took 
them both, and put them in his 
mouth, and swallowed them. 


Umkx.akaza goes to Usilosimapundu. 


Wa ti umlomo kasilosimapundu 
wa zamazama ngamand/da ; wa ti, 
" Yeuka ke, mkrakaza-wakogi- 
nggwayo." Umkrakaza wa ngena 
end/dini, wa tata umpanjana, wa u 
sibukula, wa kipa itusi lomzimba 
wake, wa li faka emzimbeni ; wa 
kipa isikcamelo sake setusi; wa 
kipa ingubo yake yetusi ; wa kipa 
ukcansi lwake lwetusi ; wa kipa 
induku yake yetusi ; wa kipa 
umuntsha wake wezindondo, wa 
binca, wa pumela pand/de ; w' e- 
ma e bambe ingubo yake nesikca- 
melo sake, 'emi ngokcansi lwake 
na ngenduku yake. Wa ti Usilo- 
simapundu, "A u fulatele ke, 


The mouth of Usilosimapundu 
moved with rapidity ; he said, 
" Come down now then, Umkra- 
kaza-wakoginggwaya " Umkra- 

kaza went into the house, and took 
the little pot, and uncovered it ; 
she took out the brazen ornaments 
for her body, and put them on ; 
she took out her brazen pillow f s 
she took out her garment orna- 
mented with brass ; and her sleep- 
ing mat ornamented with brass ; 
she took her walking stick of 
brass ; she took out her petticoat 
ornamented with brass beads ; she 
dressed herself and went outside ; 
she stood holding her garment and 
pillow, resting on her sleeping 
mat, and rod. Usilosimapundu 
said, "Just turn your back to me, 


3S The native pillow is generally made of some tree ; a fantastic piece is 
often chosen, with three or four branches, which, when cut, resembles a little 
stool ; sometimes it is a mere block of wood. The princess is represented as 
having a brazen pillow. 


194 


IZINGANEXWANE. 


mkrakaza-wakoginggwayo." Wa 
fulatela. Wa ti, "A u penduke 
ke, mkceakaza - wakoginggwayo." 
Wa penduka. Wa ti Usilosima- 
pundu, " A u Aleke ke, mkscakaza- 
wakoging^wayo." Kepa Umkn- 
kaza a ka tandanga ukuAleka, 
ngokuba wa e Alupeka e shiya 
uyise nonina nokubusa kwake. 
Wa ti Usilosimapundu, " Yeuka 
ke, mkrakaza - wakoginggwayo." 
W' euka wa fika kusilosimapundu. 


Her sister and mother have a pre 

Kepa ngokweuka kwake kwa 
ku nga ti intombazana yakwabo 
ya i zwile emfuleni ; ya sukuma 
ngamandAla nesigubu, ya kupuka. 
Nonina kwa ku nga ti u zwile, 
ngokuba wa shiya abantu bonke 
emuva aba be hamba naye. 

V silosimapundu runs 


Umkrakaza'Wakoginggwayo." She 
turned her back to him. He said, 
" Now turn again, Umkscakaza- 
wakoginggwayo." She turned. 
Usilosimapundu said, " Just laugh 
now, Umkxcakaza-wakoginggwa- 
yo." But Umkscakaza did not 
wish to laugh, for she was in 
trouble, because she was leaving her 
father and mother and her princely 
position. Usilosimapundu said, 
u Come down now, Urhkrakaza- 
wakoging^wayo." She went down 
to Usilosimapundu. 

entiment. of evil , and hasten home . 

But by her going down it was 
as if her little sister at the river 
felt her departure ; 39 she started 
up suddenly with her water-vessel, 
and went up to the village. And 
it was as if her mother felt it, for 
she left all the people behind which 
were walking with her . 40 

off vnth UmJcxaJcaza. 


Wa kwela Umkccakaza-wako- 
ginggwayo. U te e s' and' uku- 
kwela, w' esuka masinyane Usilo- 
simapundu, wa gijima ngamandAla. 
Ku te lapa e ti site ngentaba 
intombazana ya ku bona oku site- 
layo, kepa a ya kw azi uma ku ini 
na. Kanti nonina ku te ku sitela 
wa e ku bona ; kepa a k' azanga 
uma ku ini na. 


Umkccakaza - wakoging^wayo 
mounted on Usilosimapundu. As 
soon as she had mounted, Usilosi- 
mapundu speedily ran off. When 
he was just becoming hidden be- 
hind a hill, the sister saw some- 
thing which was disappearing, but 
did not know what it was. And 
the mother too, when it was be- 
coming concealed, saw it ; but did 
not know what it was. 


39 " Felt her departure," — was sensible of her departure. There is an allu- 
sion here to what is called sympathy or presentiment, by which a person is im- 
pressed with a feeling that he must go to a certain place, or that something is 
about to happen to a certain person which requires his immediate presence, &c. 

40 The sympathetic impression of the mother has its correspondence not 
only in the legends of other people as the relic of an old and effete faith, but to 
the present day the reality of such impressions forms a part of the creed not 
only of the natives of South Africa, but of a large number of educated people 
in all parts of the world. We cannot enter into the consideration of such a 
question here, further than to remark that it rarely happens that a wide-spread 
belief is without any foundation in facts, badly observed, it may be, and worse 
interpreted, but still facts, which it is always worth while to examine, to dis- 
cuss, and to classify. 


UMKXAK AZ A-WAKOGIN G Q WAY 0. 


195 


The sister and mother 

Ba fika kanyekanye ekaya in- 
tombi nonin a. Unina wa bona 
utango ekceleni lw apukile ; wa 
ti, "Ku inf o be ku lapa na 1 ?" 
Wa ti Ubalatusi, " Ngi ti isilwa- 
nyazane okwa dAliwa inkomo 
zaso." Wa ti unina, "U b' u ye 
ngapi wena na % " Wa ti, " Ngi 
tunywe amakgabunga ukuka 'ma- 
nzi ngesigubu emfuleni. Kwa fike 
kw' ala ukuba ngi suke." Unina 
wa ti, " Maye ! Kepa ni ti u se 
kona umntanami lapa ekaya na ? 
Ini e ngi te, ngi vela lapaya, ya i 
ti site lapaya na ? " Wa gijima 
unina, wa ye wa ngena emgongwe- 
ni ; wa fika e nge ko. Wa puma, 
wa ngena kwenye ind/ilu ; wa 
funyana e nge ko. Wa ngena 
kwenye; wa funyana e nge ko. 
Wa gijima ngejubane, wa pindela 
ernuva emadodeni, wa ti, " Tshe- 
tsba ni ; umntanami u middle 
nesilwanyazane o kwa tatwa in- 
komo zaso." Ba ti, " U si bonile 
ini na ?" Wa ti, " Ku kona oku 
sitele ngentaba lapa ngi vela nga- 
sekaya. Futi umntanami a ka se 
ko ekaya." 


The king and his army c 

Ba hamba ba fika ekaya, ba 
Aloma bonke. Ba ya ba hamba 
ngomkondo waso ; ba si bona, ba 
ya kusona, si mi, si ba lindile. 
Ba fika kusona, sa Zdeka, sa ti, 
" Yenza ni ke bo ; yenza ni masi- 
nya, ngi hambe ; li tshonile." Ba 
ponsa, ba ponsa. Omunye um- 
konto wa ponseka esizibeni ; omu- 
nye wa ponseka etsheni ; omunye 
wa wela esikoteni ; omunye wa 


'each the town together. 

They arrived home both toge- 
ther, the girl and her mother. The 
mother saw the fence broken 
down on one side ; she said, 
" What has been here ? " Ubala- 
tusi said, " I say it was the beast 
whose cattle were taken away." 
The mother said, "Where had 
you gone 1 ?" She said, "I had 
been sent by the leaves to fetch 
water with a vessel from the river. 
On my arrival I was unable to get 
away again." Her mother said, 
" Alas ! but do you say that my 
child is still here at home ? What 
was that which became hidden 
yonder, as I reached that place 
yonder V The mother ran, and en- 
tered the umgongo ; on her arrival 
she was not there. She went into 
another house ; she did not find 
her there. She went into another ; 
she did not find her there. She 
ran swiftly back again to the men, 
and said, " Make haste ; my child 
is taken away by the beast who 
was plundered of his cattle." They 
said, " Have you seen him h " She 
replied, " There is something which 
disappeared behind the hill as 
I came near home. And my child 
is no longer there." 

nn, and pursue the beast. 

They went home, and all armed. 
They set out on the tracks of the 
beast ; they saw it, they went to 
it, it having stood still and waited 
for them. They came to it ; it 
laughed and said, "Do what you 
are going to do ; do it quickly, 
that I may go; the sun has set." 
They hurled and hurled their 
spears. One spear was thrown 
into a pool ; another on a rock ; 
another fell in the grass ; another 


19G 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


wela e/Jatini ; yonke ya pela i nga 
gwazanga 'luto. Ba pelelwa imi- 
konto. Sa ti isilwane, " Hamba 
ni, ni yo'Zdoma futi." Ba buyela 
ekaya, ba yo'u/doma. Ba buya ba 
ponsa ; k\v enze njalo futi ; a ba 
gwazanga 'luto. Ba ti, " Se s' a- 
Alulekile. " Wa ti U silosimapundu, 
" Sala ni ku/de." 


The array tries in vain 

Ba kala abantu bonke, be ti, 
"A ku m e/dise." Wa vuma ke, 
w' e/da, e ti, " Ye/dika ke." Ba 
m anga, be kala, naye e kala. Ya 
m faka pakati impi yonke yakubo 
Umkscakaza. Kepa sa ti ukubona 
isilo, sa ti, "Kanti ba ya funa 
ukumuka naye." Sa penduka, sa 
ba dabula pakati ; kwa ku nga ti 
ku kona oku m ponsa pezulu Urn- 
kxakaza ; sa penduka naye, sa 
hamba naye. 


V mJcxakaza' s father and mother , 


Kw' esuka unina nodade wabo 
noyise nomne wabo, be si landela. 
Ba hamba, ku ti lapa si lele kona, 
nabo ba lale. Ku se si vuka, nabo 
ba hambe naso. Unina e hamba 
e kala. Kepa uyise nomne wabo 
nodade wabo ba katala, ba buyela 
emuva. Unina wa hamba naso. 
Ba ye ba lala. Wa ti Usilosima- 
pundu wa ka imfe nombila, wa pa 
unina kamkcakaza, Wa dAla. 


fell in the forest ; all were used, 
without stabbing anything. They 
had not a single spear left. The 
beast said, " Go and arm again." 
They went home to arm. Again 
they hurled their spears ; it hap- 
pened again as before ; they did 
not stab any thing. They said, 
" At length we are worsted." 
Usilosimapundu said, " Good by." 

to rescue UmJcxakaza. 

All the people cried, saying, 
"Let her come down." He as- 
sented, and she came down, on his 
saying, " Descend then." They 
kissed her, weeping, and she too 
weeping. The whole army of her 
people put Umbcakaza in the 
middle. But when the beast saw 
it, he said, " Forsooth they want 
to go off with her." He turned 
round, and passed through the 
midst of them ; it was as though 
something threw Umkajakaza into 
the air ; he turned back with her, 
and went away with her. 

and brother and sister , follow the 


per mother and sister, and 
father and' brother, followed the 
beast. They went on, and where 
the beast rested, there they too 
rested. In the morning when he 
awoke, they too went with him. 
The mother went weeping. But 
the father and brother and sister 
were tired and turned back. Her 
mother accompanied the beast. 
They went some distance, and 
rested. Usilosimapundu plucked 
sugarcane and maize, and gave it 
to the mother of Umkccakaza. 
She ate. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


197 


The mother also , being tired , turns bach 


Kwa sa U silosimapundu e ha- 
mba naye, unina kamkxakaza wa 
hamba. Wa ze wa katala, wa ti, 
a si m e/ilise Umkxakaza, a m 
bone. Sa ti, " YeAlika ke, mkxa- 
kaza-wakoging^wayo ; ye Alika, a 
ku bone nnyoko." W' e Alika. 
Ba kala bobabili nonina. Wa m 
anga unina, e ti, " Hamba kuAle 
ke, mntanami." 


In the morning, when Usilosi- 
mapundu set out, the mother of 
Umkxakaza set out. At length 
she was tired, and asked the beast 
to allow Umkxakaza to come down 
that she might see her. He re- 
plied, " Get down then, Umkxa- 
kaza-wakoging^wayo ; get down, 
that your mother may see you." 
She got down. They both wept, 
both she and her mother. Her 
mother kissed her, saying, " Go in 
peace, my child." 


The beast takes Umkxakaza to a beautiful cave , and leaves her there. 


Wa ti TJsilosimapundu, " Kwe- 
la, mkxakaza." Wa kwela. Sa 
hamba naye, sa ya, sa m beka 
kude, lapa e nga s' azi uma ku pi 
kubo na. Sa fika enxiweni ; ku 
kona isiguai esikulu pakati kwe- 
nxiwa ; ekceleni kwesiguai kwa ku 
kona umgodi omuAle, u gudAliwe 
ngonwali, u kazimula kakulu pa- 
kati kwawo ; ku kona ingubo no- 
kcansi nesikcamelo nesigubu sa- 
manzi. 


TJsilosimapundu said, " Get up, 
Umkxakaza." She got up. He 
went away with her, and put her 
afar off, where she did not know 
in what direction the country of 
her people was. He came to the 
site of an old village ; there was a 
large tobacco garden in the midst 
of it ; on the border of the garden 
there was a beautiful cave ; its floor 
was smeared with fat, it was very 
bright inside ; and there was a 
blanket and sleeping mat there, a 
pillow, and a vessel of water. 


The beast's parting address. 


Wa ti Usilosimapundu, " Hlala 
lapa ke, mkxakaza-wakoginggwa- 
yo. Ngi ti uyiAlo ngi mu clAlile 
kakulu, ngokuba uma w ende be 
ya 'uzuza izinkomo eziningi ngawe. 
Kepa ngi mu dAlile, ngokuba a u 
sa yi } ku m bona ; naye a ka sa yi 
'ku ku bona. Sala lapa ke. Uyi- 
7do wa ngi dAla inkomo zami ezi- 
ningi j nami ke ngi mu dAlile." 


Usilosimapundu said, " Stay 
here, Umkxakaza-wakoginggwayo. 
I say, I have spoiled your father 
excessively ; for when you married, 
he would have got many cattle 
for you. And I have spoiled him, 
for you will never see him again, 
and he will never see you. Stay 
here then. Your father spoiled 
me by taking away my many 
cattle j and now I have spoiled 
him." 


198 


LZIN GANEKWANE. 


UmTcxakaza sleeps alone in the cave. 


Wa hamba ke Usilosimapundu, 
w 7 emuka. Wa sala wa /dal a 
yedwa lapa, e hie zi nemfe imbili 
nezikwebu zombila ezine a zi piwe 
Usilosimapundu. Wa Alala, wa 
ze wa lala kona emgodini. Kwa 
ti kusasa wa vuka w' etamela ila- 
nga. Wa tata imfe, wa y apula, 
wa i la/da ; wa y apula, wa i 
la/da ; wa shiya ilungu la ba li- 
nye ; wa li Aluba, wa li dAla. Wa 
tata umbila, wa w osa, wa w apula 
wa w apula, wa d/da isin^anm esi 
pakati, wa u la/da wonke kanye 
nemfe. 


So Usilosimapundu departed. 
And she remained there alone, 
with two sugarcanes and four ears 
of maize which U silosimapundu had 
given her. She sat until she lay 
down to sleep there in the cave. 
In the morning she awoke and sat 
in the sun. She took a sugarcane, 
and broke off a joint, and threw 
it away. She broke off another, 
and threw it away ; she left one 
joint only, she peeled it, and ate 
it. She took the ears of maize, 
and roasted them ; she rubbed off 
the grain, she rubbed off the grain, 
and ate the portion which was in 
the middle, and threw the rest 
with the sugarcane . 41 


V mkxakaza is frightened by the approach of a strange being. 


Kwa ti emini, se li balele, wa 
bona uluto lu za kude ; ngokuba 
kwa ku senkangala ; ku kona 
umuti umunye, umuti nje. Kwa 
ye, kwa /dala pansi kwawo lowo 
7 muti. Wa buye wa ku bona, ku 
za ku kamina. Wa ya wa ngena 
emgodini Umkrakaza. Kwa nge- 
na esiguaini ; kwa hamba, ku ka 
uguai. Ku ti lapa ku bona inya- 
wo, kw esabe ; ku bheke, ku buye 
ku ke futi uguai, kwa ye kwa m 
beka ngapandAle kwesiguai. Kwa 
ya emgodini. Wa ku bona Um- 
kxakaza-wakoginggwayo ; wa su- 
kuma, wa veza isandAla ; kwa 
bona isand/da, kwa baleka, kwa 
shiya uguai. Kwa hamba, kwa 
ye kwa tshona. Wa sale wa /dala 
kwa ze kwa Aiwa. 


At noon, the sun. being now 
bright, she saw something coming 
in the distance ; for it was on the 
high land; there was there one 
tree, one tree only. The thing 
went and sat under the tree. 
Again she saw it approaching by 
leaps. Umkjrakaza went into the 
cave. The thing entered the to- 
bacco garden ; it went plucking 
the tobacco. When it saw foot- 
prints, it was frightened ; it look- 
ed, and again plucked the tobacco, 
and went and put it outside the 
garden. It entered the cave. 
When Umkrakaza-wakoging^wa- 
yo saw it, she arose and thrust out 
her hand ; it saw the hand, and fled, 
and left the tobacco. It went and 
disappeared over a hill. She re- 
mained till it was dark. 


41 Great people and men select the joints of the sugarcane which are in the 
middle, rejecting both the upper and lower joints. In like manner chiefs and 
great men reject the grains of maize which are at the ends of the ear, selecting 
those only which are in the middle. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


199 


Tvjo of these strange beings visit the cave . 


Kwa sa kusasa wa puma, wa 
Mala pandAle XJmkxakaza ; wa 
bona futi ku za ku kubili, ku ha- 
mba ku kasuina ; kwa ye kwa 
Mala emtunzini. Kwa buye kw' e- 
suka kwa ya esiguaini. Wa ngena 
emgodini Umkccakaza. Kwa nge- 
na, kwa ka uguai ; kwa ti loku a 
ku bonile izolo, kwa ka kw etuka, 
kw esaba; ku ti, " Hau, nyawo, 
nyawo, ti vela pi na 1 ? " Ku ti 
okunye, " U ti bona pi na ? " Ku 
ti, "Nati." 42 Kwa ye kwa m 
beka uguai ngapand/de. Kwa 
buye kw' ez' emgodini. Wa su- 
kuma Umkicakaza, wa veza iza- 
nd/da ezimbili. (Wa bona ukuba 
Amad/dungundAlebe.) A bona 


In the morning Umkrakaza 
went and sat outside ; again she 
saw two things coming, proceeding 
by leaps ; they went and sat in the 
shade of the tree. Again they 
arose and went to the tobacco 
garden. Umkrakaza went into 
the cave. On entering the garden 
they plucked the tobacco ; the one 
which she saw the day before 
plucked starting and afraid ; it 
said, " 0, footprints, footprints, 
whence did they cornel" The 
other said, " Where did you see 
them 1 " It replied, " There." 
They went and put the tobacco 
outside. Again they entered the 
cave. Umkscakaza arose and thrust 
out both hands. (She perceived 
that they were Amadhlungundhle- 
be. 43 ) When they saw the hands, 


42 These creatures are represented as talking a strange dialect ; it resembles 
that of the Amaswazi ; and is introduced to make them appear ridiculous. 

43 Keightley has remarked in his Fairy Mythology, p. 28 : — "An extensive 
survey of the regions of fancy and their productions will incline us rather to 
consider the mental powers of man as having a uniform operation under every 
sky, and under every form of political existence, and to acknowledge that iden- 
tity of invention is not more to be wondered at than identity of action." How- 
ever comprehensive we may be disposed to make this sentiment, there will still 
be left many tales in the folk-lore of different peoples so similar not only in their 
general characteristics, but also in their details ; and also some things so strange, 
that one feels compelled to refer them to a common origin. This of Half -men 
belongs to this class. It is so strange, wild, and eccentric, that it is not easy to 
conceive that it could arise spontaneously in two minds. Yet we find allusions 
to "One-legged men" in various authors. 

Pliny mentions a nation of Monosceli. The Marquis of Hastings states 
that during his sojourn in India he found the germ of fact from which many of 
the most incredible tales of ancient history has grown. "A Grecian author 
mentions a people who had only one leg. An embassy from the interior was 
conducted into the presence of the viceroy, and he could by no persuasion pre- 
vail upon the obsequious minister to use more than one of his legs, though he 
stood during the whole of the protracted audience." 

It is quite possible that such a custom as that of standing on one leg as a 
ceremony of etiquette should become the starting point of the legends, in which 
we meet with the account of half -men. " The Shikk," says Lane in his notes 
to the Introduction to the Arabian Nights, p. 33, " is another demoniacal crea- 
ture, having the form of half a human being, (like a man divided longitudi- 
nally ;) and it is believed that the Nesnas is the offspring of a Shikk and a 
human being. 

"The Nesnas is described as resembling half a human being, having half a 
head, half a body, one arm and one leg, with which it hops with much agility." 
It is said to be found in several places. " It resembled a man in form, except- 
ing that it has but half a face, which is in its breast, and a tail like that of a 
sheep." A kind of Nesnas is also said to inhabit "the island of Raig in the 
sea of Es-Seen or China, and to have wings like those of a bat. " 


200 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


izand/da, a baleka a ye a tshona. 
A fike, a bika enkosini yawo, e ti, 
" Ku kona oku semgodini wen- 
kosi." Ya ti inkosi yamad/dungu- 
nd/debe, " Ku njani na ? " A ti, 
" Kubili." 


they fled, and disappeared behind 
a hill. On reaching their chief, 
they told him, saying, " There is 
something in the chiefs cave." 
The chief of the Amadhlungu- 
ndhlebe said, " What is it like % " 
They said, " There are two." 


Many come, to the cave , and UmJcxakaza expects to be hilled. 


Ivwa menywa amanye Ama- 
d/dungundAlebe. Kwa sa kusasa 
kwa hanjwa kwa yiwa kona em- 
godini wenkosi. Wa bona Um- 
ka;akaza e vela e maningi kakulu, 
wa ti, " Namu/da lu fikile usuku 
e ngi za 'ubulawa ngalo." A fika, 
a Mala pansi kwomtunzi, lapo em- 
tunzini a e /dala kona, e bema 
uguai ; ngezikati zonke uma e ya 
'kuka uguai, ay'a /dala kona em- 
tunzini. 'Esuka a ya a ngena esi- 
guaini, a ka uguai, a m beka nga- 
pand/de ; ngokuba inkosi yakona 
emad/dungund/debeni ya i misele 
ukuba umgodi wayo u tshanelwe 
ngezikati zonke ; kepa i misele 
bonke abantu aba ya 'kutslianela 
lowo 'mgodi ba kgale ngokuka 
uguai, b' amuke uguai, ba m beke 
ngapand/de. Kwa buzwa kulawo 
amabili Amad/dungund/debe, kwa 
tiwa; " Ni ku bone pi na ? " A 
ti, " Be ku vele emgodini." Kwa 
tiwa, " Hamba ni, ni ye, ni 
lunguze emnyango ; ni bone uma 
ku kona na ?" A ya, e nyonyoba, 
'esaba, a lunguza, 'a/duleka uku- 
bonisisa, ngokuba umzimba wake 
wa u kazimula. A buyela emuva, 
a ti, " Kunye, ku ya kazimula ; a 
si ku bonisisi." Ya ti inkosi 
y amad/dungund/debe, " A si tsho 
kanyekanye, si ti, ' Umuntu, isilo 
ini na 1 " A tsho ke onke, a ti, 
"U umuntu u 'silo u ini na?" 
Wa ti Umkccakaza, " Ngi umu- 


Other Amadhlungundhlebe were 
summoned; and in the morning 
they went to the chief's cave. 
Umka'akaza saw very many com- 
ing, and said, " The day has now 
arrived in which I shall be killed." 
When they reached the tree they 
sat in the shade, there in the shade 
where they sat and took snuff; 
always when they went to pluck 
tobacco, they sat there in the 
shade. They arose and went into 
the tobacco garden, and plucked 
tobacco, and put it outside; for 
the chief of the country of the 
Amadhlungundhlebe had ordered 
that his cave should be regularly 
swept ; and he had ordered that 
all people who went to sweep the 
cave should begin with plucking 
tobacco, and take and put it out- 
side the garden. They enquired 
of the two Amadhlungundhlebe 
where they had seen it? They 
replied, " It appeared in the cave." 
They were told to go and look into 
the doorway, and see if it was 
there. They went stealthily, being 
afraid, and looked in ; they were 
unable to see clearly, for her body 
glistened. They came back, and 
said, "It is one, it glistens ; we 
cannot see it clearly." The chief 
of the Amadhlungundhlebe said, 
" Let us say all together, 4 Is it a 
man or a beast ? ' " So all shouted, 
saying, " Are you a man or a 
beast?" Umkrakaza replied, "I 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


201 


ntu." A ti, " Puma, si ku bone." 
Wa ti Umkrakaza, " A ngi tandi 
ukupuma, ngokuba ng' umntwana 
wenkosi." Kwa tunywa amanye 
AmadAlungundAlebe, kwa tiwa, a 
wa gijime ngamand/da a yo'utata 
inkomo, inkabi enkulu, a gijime, a 
buye nayo. Ya fika inkabi, ya 
Alatshwa. Wa puma ke Umkcca- 
kaza-wakoging^wayo, e pete ingubo 
yake nokcansi lwake nesikcamelo 
sake nenduku yake, e bincile umu- 
ntsha wezindondo. Wa beka pa- 
nsi emnyango ingubo nesikcamelo, 
w* ema ngenduku, nokcansi w' e- 
ma ngalo. Ya ti inkosi yama- 
d/dungund/debe, " Penduka." Wa 
penduka Umkcakaza. A ti Ama- 
d/dungund/debe, " Yeka ! TJluto 
lu lu/de! Kepa yeka, imilente- 
lente ! " A pind' a tsho e ti, 
" Nga e ba mu/de uma ka si yo 
imilentelente." A ti, a ka ngene 
end/dini. 'Emuka onke, a pindela 
emuva. 


am a human being." They said, 
" Come out, that we may see you." 
Umkccakaza said, "I do not like 
to come out, for I am a chief's 
child." The chief sent some Ama- 
dhlungundhlebe, telling them to 
run swiftly and fetch a bullock — a 
large ox — and run back with it. 
When the ox came it was slaugh- 
tered. Then Umkrakaza-wako- 
gingg'Wayo came out, carrying her 
blanket and her sleeping mat, and 
pillow and rod, being girded with 
her petticoat which was orna- 
mented with brass beads. She 
put down at the doorway the 
blanket and pillow, and rested on 
her rod, and on her sleeping mat 
she rested too. The chief of the 
Amadhlungundhlebe said, " Turn 
your back towards us." Umk&'a- 
kaza turned her back to them. 
The chief of the Amadhlungu- 
ndhlebe said, " Turn round." 
Umkccakaza turned. The Ama- 
dhlungundhlebe said, " Oh ! The 
thing is pretty ! But oh the two 
legs ! " Again they said, " It 
would be pretty but for the two 
legs." They told her to go into 
the cave ; and they all went away. 


The Amadhlungundhlebe take away Umkxakaza. 


Kwa fika kwa menywa Ama- 
dAlungund/debe amaningi. Kwa 
sa kusasa, kwa yiwa kuyena Um- 
krakaza, ku petwe ulembu olubo- 
nakalisa umzimba uma umuntu 
e lw embete. A fika, a /dala em- 
tunzini, e bema uguai. Wa ti 
uma a wa bone Umkccakaza, wa 
ti, " So ku ziwa 'kubulala mina." 
A fika esiguaini, a ka uguai, a m 
beka ngapandAle. A ngena, a ya 
emgodini, a ti, a ka pume. Wa 
puma ; wa nikwa ulembu, wa 


Many Amadhlungundhlebe were 
called together. In the morning 
they went to Umkrakaza; they 
carried a veil through which, if 
any one put it on, the body could 
be seen. They came and sat in 
the shade and took snuff. When 
Umkxakaza saw them, she said, 
"They are now coming to kill 
me." They came to the tobacco 
garden, they plucked tobacco, and 
put it outside the garden. They 
entered the cave, and told her to 
come out. She went out ; they 
gave her the veil ; she put it on, 


202 ' 


IZINGANEKWANE. 




binca Iona, e m buka e ti, " Yeka ! 
uluto nga lu lu/de, — kepa yeka 
imilentelente ! " E tsho ngokuba 
we e nemilenze emibili nezand/da 
ezimbili ; ngokuba wona a e fana 
— uma ku /dinzwa inkomo yabe- 
lungu e datshulwe u/dangoti nolu- 
nye u/dangoti, wona Amad/du- 
ngund/debe a e u/ilangoti lwa-nga- 
nxanye, lu nge ko olunye u/ila- 
ngoti. Wa sinelwa Umkxakaza a 
wona Amad/dungundAlebe. A 
sina a kgeda, a m tata, a ya naye 
ekaya. 

Umkxakaza is beloved by tl 

Wa bona umuzi wenkosi yama- 
d/dungund/debe, wa ti, "We! 
yeka lo 'muzi ; umkulu njengoka- 
baba." Ngokuba wa mkulu 
kakulu. Wa ya wa bekwa en- 
d/dini e ngasenAla ; kwa Alatshwa 
izinkomo eziningi, e d/da inyam a. 
Ku tiwa u umntwana wenkosi, 
ngokuba inkosi yamad/dungun- 
d/debe ya i m tanda kakulu, i ti, 
umntwana wayo. E /dala esigo- 
d/dweni Umkxakaza esimnyama; 
ku kona ngenzansi esim/dope. 


they looking at her and saying, 

" Oh, it would be a pretty thing, 
— but, oh, the two legs ! " They 
said thus because she had two legs 
and two hands ; for they are like, 
— if an ox of the white man is 
skinned and divided into two 
halves, the Amadhlungundhlebe 
were like one side, there not being 
another side. The Amadhlungu- 
ndhlebe danced for Umkxakaza. 
When they had finished dancing, 
they went home with her. 

chief, and called his child. 

When she saw the village of the 
chief of the Amadhlungundhlebe, 
she said, " Alas ! oh this village ; 
it is large like that of my father." 
For it was very great. She was 
placed in a house at the top of the 
village ; many cattle were killed, 
and she ate meat. She was called 
the chief's child, for the chief of 
the Amadhlungundhlebe loved her 
very much, and called her his 
child. Umkxakaza lived in the 
dark palace; there was a white 
palace at the lower part of the 
village . 44 


U mkxahaza becomes very fat , and the Amadhlungundhlebe wish to 

hill her. 


Wa ze wa kulupala kakulu, 
w' a/duleka ukuhamba Umkxa- 
kaza. A ti uma e pumela pandAle 
esigod/dweni, a ti lapa e hamba e 
pakati emkatini wesim/dope nesi- 
mnyama a katale, a buyele en- 
d/dini. Ku ti uma e suka pansi 
ku sale isikcibi samafuta. Inkosi 
yamad/dungund/debe i si puze isi- 


At length Umkxakaza was very 
fat, and unable to walk. When 
she left the palace, on getting 
halfway between the white and the 
dark palace, she was tired, and 
returned to the house. When she 
rose up there remained a pool of 
fat. The chief of the Amadhlu- 
ngundhlebe used to drink the pool 


44 Isigodhlo is the dwelling, consisting of several huts, which belong to the 
chief — the royal buildings. * ' The dark isigodhlo " is that part where no visitors 
are allowed to enter ; " the white isigodhlo " is entered by those who are called 
by the chief. 


















UMKXAKAZA WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


203 


kcibi samafuta a puma kumkjca- 
kaza, ngokuba isizwe samad/du- 
ngund/debe sa si dAla abantu. Ba 
ti abantu, " Nkos', a ka d/diwe, a 
k^onk^we amafuta, loku amafuta e 
se pelela pansi nje." Kepa inkosi 
yamad/dungund/debe ya i m tanda 
kakulu U mkxakaza-wakoginggwa- 
yo ; i ti inkosi yamad/dungun- 
d/debe, "U ya 'ud/diwa ngi pi mina 
na ? " A ti Amad/dungund/debe, 
" O, nkos', loku ku isilima nje na? 
Into e nga sa kw azi ukuhamba i 
za 'kwenza ni i kcita amafuta en- 
kosi?" 


Preparations are made for 

Ya ze ya vuma inkosi, inyanga 
se zintatu be i ncenga, be ti, "A 
ku kgonk^we amafuta enkosi." 
Ya vuma ke. Kwa menywa aba- 
ntu abaningi bamad/dungund/debe, 
ba ya ba teza izinkuni eziningi ; 
kw' embiwa umgodi omkulu ; kwa 
baswa umlilo omkulu ; kwa tatwa 
udengezi olukulu, lwa bekwa pezu 
kwezinkuni ezi basiwe. 


of fat which came from Umfcra- 
kaza, for the nation of the Ama- 
dhlungundhlebe used to eat men. 
The people said, " O chief, let her 
be eaten, and the fat melted down, 
for the fat is being wasted on the 
ground." But the chief of the 
Amadhlungundhlebe loved Um- 
kajakaza - wakoginggwayo very 
much, and said, " When she is 
eaten, where shall I be ? " 45 The 
Amadhlungundhlebe said, " O 
chief, since she is a mere deform- 
ity ? Of what use is a thing which 
can no longer walk, which is 
wasting the fat of the chief ? " 

melting down Umkxakaza. 

At length the king assented, 
they having continued to beseech 
him for three months, saying, 
" Let the fat of the chief be melted 
down." So he assented. Many 
people of the Amadhlungundhlebe 
were summoned ; they went and 
fetched much firewood ; a great 
hole was dug; a large fire was 
kindled ; a large sherd was taken 
and put on the fire which was 
kindled. 


Umkxakaza, by her incantations , raises a tempest, which destroys many 
of her enemies. 


La li balele kakulu, ku nge ko 
'lifu nalinye. Lwa ze lwa ba bo- 
mvu udengezi. Kwa ti uma so lu 
' bomvu kakulu, wa ya wa bizwa 
Umkxakaza ; wa ya, be hamba 
naye. Kwa ti uma e sesangweni 
wa bheka, wa bona abantu be ba- 
ningi kakulu ; wa /dabela, wa ti, 

"We, zulu le. Wo, mayoya, we. 

45 That is, " So long as I live you \ 

46 We ! is an interjection by which 
Wo ! is an interjection in which a kind 
tention is not given. Mayoya is a kind 
by Umkxakaza to the sky, as though s 
is merely acting in an ordinary way, an 
to destroy her enemies. Emabilweni, li 


It was very bright ; there was 
not a single cloud. At length the 
sherd was red. When it was very 
red, Umkxakaza was called ; she 
went with them. When she was 
at the gateway, she looked ; she 
saw that there were very many 
people ; she sang, saying, 

" Listen , 46 yon heaven. Attend ; 
mayoya, listen. 

ill not touch her. " 

the attention of a person is arrested, 
of threat is implied if the requisite at- 
of chorus. The whole song is addressed 
tie was its lord ; it is a complaint that it 
i not in the way she wishes, viz., so as 
t., in the throat. 


204 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


We, zulu. Li nga dumi noku- 
duma. 

Li dinner emabilweni. L' enza 
ni ? 

Li dumela ukuna nokupendula." 


Listen, heaven. It does not 
thunder with loud thunder. 
It thunders in an undertone. 

What is it doing 1 
It thunders to produce rain and 
change of season." 47 


47 The belief in the power possessed by human beings of controlling the 
elements by incantations and other means, is as wide spread probably as the 
human race. At a future time we shall speak of the superstitious faith of the 
natives in weather-doctors, which will probably throw some light on the belief 
as it exists among civilized nations as a relic of the past, in novels or old legends. 
We would just allude to the curious fact that a modern philosophic thinker of 
no ordinary power, Professor Mansel, has thrown out the idea that it is not out 
of the bounds of possibility that man's scientific knowledge may one day be 
such as to enable him to do that which our forefathers were disposed to relegate 
to the domain of sorcery and witchcraft. He says : — "It is even conceivable 
that the progress of science may disturb the regularity of occurrence of natural 
phenomena. If men were to acquire vast power of producing atmospheric phe- 
nomena, the periodical recurrence of such phenomena would become more irre- 
gular, being producible at the will of this or that man. There is a remarkable 
note in Darwin's Botanic Garden ( Canto iv., 1. 320), in which the author con- 
jectures that changes of wind may depend on some minute chemical cause, 
which, if it were discovered, might probably, like other chemical causes, be 
governed by human agency." 

Thus the wisdom of the nineteenth century is leading men back again to 
the dreams of the childhood of our race. 

We shall refer the reader to a few instances of the superstitious belief in 
power to control the elements. 

We are told on the authority of a Bishop, Olaus Magnus, that Eric, King 
of Sweden, "was in his time held second to none in the magical art ; and he 
was so familiar with the evil spirits whom he worshipped, that what way soever 
he turned his cap, the wind would presently blow that way. For this he was 
called Windy-cap." ( Sir Walter Scott. " The Pirate," Note 9.) 

It is probable that this old legend of Eric, "Windy-cap," has comedown 
to us in the saying, a "capful of wind." When the old heathen superstitions 
had been displaced by the preaching of Christianity, they disappeared rather in 
external form than in reality, and still held their place in the hearts of the 
people ; and the powers formerly ascribed to gods, or deified kings, or sorcerers, 
came to be referred to saints. Thus Langfellow, 

" Only a little hour ago 
I was whistling to Saint Antonio 
For a capful of wind to fill our sail, 

And instead of a breeze he has sent a gale." 

Sir W. Scott, who appears to have no doubt that those who professed to raise 
and lay storms, really believed in their own powers, and therefore concludes 
that they were frenzied, remarks: — "It is well known that the Laplanders 
drive a profitable trade in selling winds." And he tells us of a Bessie Millie, at 
the village of Stromness, living in 1814, who helped out her subsistence by sell- 
ing favourable winds to mariners ; just as in this country rain-doctors obtain 
large herds by selling rain. 

In the Manx Legends we read of "the feats of Mannan," who, 

" From New-year-tide round to the ides of Yule, 

Nature submitted to his wizard rule : 

Her secret force he could with charms compel 
To brew a storm, or raging tempest quell." 

(Elizabeth Coolcson's Legends of Manx Land , p. 23.) 

The reader is referred to the incantation of the " Reim-kennar " in Sir 
Walter Scott's " Pirate " ; and to the mode in which she obtained 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


205 


Onke AmadAlungund/ilebe a bona 
ilifu li lukuzela ngamand/da. Wa 
pinda Umkccakaza, wa Alabela, wa 
ti, 

" We, zulu le. Wo, mayoya, we. 

We, zulu. Li nga dumi noku- 
duma. 

Li dinner emabilweni. L' enza 
ni ? 

Li dumela ukuna nokupendula." 

Izulu la /danganisa ngamafu ; la 
duma ngamandAla ; la na imvula 
enkulu. La kcima udengezi ; la 
tata udengezi, la lu ponsa pezulu, 


All the Amadhlungundhlebe saw 
a cloud gathering tumultuously. 
Umkrakaza again sang, 

" Listen, yon heaven. Attend ; 
mayoya, listen. 

Listen, heaven. It does not 
thunder with loud thunder. 
It thunders in an undertone. 

What is it doing? 

It thunders to produce rain and 
change of season." 

The whole heaven became covered 
with clouds ; it thundered ter- 
ribly ; it rained a great rain. It 
quenched the red hot sherd, and 
took it and tost it in the air ; it 


" The power she did covet 
O'er tempest and wave." 

Allusions to this power will he found in many of our poets. Thus in 
Shakspeare's "Tempest," Mira says : — 

"If by thy art, my dearest father, you have 
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them : 

The sky it seems would pour down stinking pitch, 

But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek. 

Dashes the fire out." 

So in H. K. White's " Gondoline," one of the witches boasts that 
" She'd been to sea in a leaky sieve, 

And a jovial storm had brewed." 

See also Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories , p. 63. And for a fine description of the 
exertion of this power by Ngatoro, Grey's Polynesian Mythology , p. 140, and 
again p. 179. " Then the ancient priest Ngatoro, who was sitting at the upper 

end of the house, rises up, unloosens and throws off his garments and repeats 
his incantations, and calls upon the winds, and upon the storms, and upon the 
thunder and lightning, that they may all arise and destroy the host of Manaia." 
The storm arises in its might, and the hosts of Manaia perish. 

So the elements obey the call of Hiawatha, when Pau-Puk-Keewis had 
found shelter from his wrath in the caverns dark and dreary of the Manito of 
the Mountains : — 

" Then he raised his hands to heaven, 

Called imploring on the tempest, 

Called Waywassimo, the lightning, 

And the thunder, Annemeekee ; 

And they came with night and darkness. 

Sweeping down the Big-Sea- W^ater, 

From the distant Thunder Mountains. " 

( Longfellow's Hiawatha. ) 

In the legends of New Zealand we find a universal deluge ascribed to the 
prayer of Tawaki, "who called aloud to the gods, and they let the floods of 
heaven descend, and the earth was overwhelmed by the waters, and all human 
beings perished. " (Grey. Op. cit., p. 61 . ) Compare with this the legend of 
St. Scolastica, who two days before her death, being unable to persuade her 
brother St. Benedict to remain with her a little longer, " bending her head over 
her clasped hands, prayed that heaven would interfere and render it impossible 
for her brother to leave her. Immediately there came such a furious tempest of 
rain, thunder, and lightning, that Benedict was obliged to delay his departure 
for some time." ( Mrs. Jameson's Legends of the Monastic Orders , p. 12.) 


206 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


lwa fa. Kva ti AmadAlungun- 
d/debe a be hamba naye Unik.ra- 
kaza la wa bulala izulu, la m shiya 
Umkicakaza ; la bulala nabanye 
abantu ; ba sala abaningi nenkosi 
yabo. 


was broken to pieces ; the heaven 48 
killed the Amadhlungundhlebe 
who were walking with Umkxa- 
kaza, but left her uninjured; it 
killed some others also ; but many 
remained with their chief. 


Her enemies try again , and are destroyed. 


La buya la balela nje. A ti 
Amad/dungund/debe, "A ku ba- 
swe masinyane, lu tshe masinya 
udengfezi : a tatwe Umkscakaza a 
pakanyiswe, a bekwe odengezini ; 
kona e nga yi 'u/dabela." La 
tshiswa udengezi ; lwa za lwa ba 
bomvu. Ba ya 'ku m tata ; ba m 
pakamisa. Kwa ti, lapa e sesa- 
ngweni, wa bheka pezulu, wa ti, 


"We, zulu le. Wo, mayoya, we. 

We, zulu. Li nga dumi noku- 
duma. 

Li dumel' emabilweni. L' enza 
ni? 

Li dumela ukuna nokupendula." 

Kwa vela futi amafu. Wa pinda 
Umkccakaza, wa ti, 

"We, zulu le. Wo, mayoya, we. 

We, zulu. Li nga dumi noku- 
duma. 

Li dumel' emabilweni. L' enza 
ni? 

Li dumela ukuna nokupendula." 

La na, la duma ngamand/da. La 
i bulala inkosi yamadAlungun d/de- 
be namanye Amad/dungund/debe 
amaningi, a fa. Kwa sala ingco- 
zana nje. 'Esaba la wo a ingcozana 


Again the heaven became clear 
and bright. The Amadhlungu- 
ndhlebe said, " Let a fire be kin- 
dled immediately, that the sherd 
may get hot at once ; and let Um- 
kccakaza be taken, and raised and 
placed on the sherd ; then she will 
not be able to sing." The sherd 
was made hot ; at length it was 
red. They went to fetch her ; they 
lifted her up ; when she was at the 
gateway, she looked up and said, 

" Listen, yon heaven. Attend ; 
mayoya, listen. 

Listen, heaven. It does not 
thunder with loud thunder. 
It thunders in an undertone. 

What is it doing? 

It thunders to produce rain and 
change of season." 

Again the clouds made their ap- 
pearance. Again Umkxakaza said, 

" Listen, yon heaven. Attend ; 
mayoya, listen. 

Listen, heaven. It does not 
thunder with loud thunder. 
It thunders in an undertone. 

What is it doing? 

It thunders to produce rain and 
change of season." 

It rained and thundered terribly. 
It killed .the chief of the Ama- 
dhlungundhlebe, and many other 
Amadhlungundhlebe ; they died ; 
there remained a small number 
only. The small remnant that 
remained were afraid, and said, 


48 The heaven, that is, the lightning. But the natives speak of the heaven 
as a person, and ascribe to it the power of exercising a will. They also speak 
of a lord of heaven, whose wrath they deprecate during a thunder storm. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


207 


a seleyo, a ti, " A si nga be si sa m 
tinta ; kodwa a si m ncitshe uku- 
dMa, a ze a zakce a fe." 


" Let us not touch her again and 
again ; but let us grudge her food, 
until she gets thin and dies." 


Umkxakaza escapes from the Amadlilungundhlebe. 


Wa jabula Umkxakaza ngokuba 
e se m ncitsha ukudMa. Wa Mala 
wa ze wa zakca ; kodwa e nga za- 
kcile, so ku pelile amafuta ama- 
ningi. Wa tata ik^oma, wa faka 
izingubo zake a e zi piwa inkosi 
yamadMimgundMebe ; wa hamba 
e ku badMile ek^omeni ; w' etwala, 
wa hamba e sindwa, ngokuba ezi- 
nye izingubo za z' enzwa ngendo- 
ndo ; e hamba e lala endMe, ngo- 
kuba wa e saba AmadMungun- 
dMebe. Wa hamba isikati eside 
e nga dMi 'luto, wa ze wa ngena 
esizweni sabantu. Wa hamba e 
lala kusona ; enxenye komunye 
umuzi ba mu pa ukudMa; encce- 
nye kwomunye umuzi ba m nci- 
tsha. Wa hamba wa ze wa zakca 
kakulu. 


Umkccakaza rejoiced because 
they now gave her but little food. 
She remained until she was thin ; 
but she was not excessively thin, 
only much fat had disappeared. 
She took a basket, and placed in it 
the things which the king of the 
Amadhlungundhlebe had given 
her ; she set out when she had put 
them in the basket ; she carried it 
on her head, and went on her way 
burdened, for some of the garments 
were ornamented with brass beads. 
She journeyed sleeping in the open 
country, because she feared the 
Amadhlungundhlebe. She went a 
long time without eating, until she 
came among a nation of men. She 
travelled sleeping among them ; 
sometimes at one village they gave 
her food; sometimes at another 
they refused her. She travelled 
until she was very thin. 


She reaches her home . 


Kwa ti ngolunye usuku wa vela 
okalweni, wa bona umuzi omkulu 
kakulu, wa ti, "We ! Yeka lo 
'muzi ; u fana nomuzi wamadMu- 
ngundMebe e ngi vela kuwona ; 
wona wa u fana nokababa." W' e- 
Ma e bona ezindMini ezi ngasen/da 
ku tun^a umlilo ; wa fika esa- 
ngweni, wa bona indoda i Mezi 
pansi kwomtunzi. Kepa inwele 
zayo za zi ngangezezimu. Wa 
dMula nje, kodwa yena e fanisa e 
ti, " Songati ubaba lo." 


It came to pass on a certain day 
she reached the top of a hill ; she 
saw a very large town ; she said, 
" Alas ! 0 that town ; it resembles 
the town of the Amadhlungu- 
ndhlebe from which I come ; and 
that was like my father's." She 
went down, seeing in the houses 
at the top of the town the smoke 
of fire; when she came to the 
gateway, she saw a man sitting in 
the shade ; but his hair was as 
long as a cannibal's. She merely 
passed on ; but she compared him, 
saying, " That man resembles my 
father." 


c c 


208 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


She makes herself known to her mother. 


Wa ya ngasen/da, e bona uma 
umuzi kayise. Wa fika unina e 
peka utshwala. Wa Alala pansi 
kwotango, wa ti, " Eh ! nkosikazi ! 
Emhhikgweniwako." Ba ti, "Sa 
u bona." Wa ti, "Yebo." Wa 
bona nonina e nga lungisile ekanda. 
Wa ti, " Kepa kulo 'muzi kw enze 
njani na? I nani leyo 'ndoda e 
sesangweni na?" Wa pendula 
unina, wa ti, " Wena, u vela ngapi 
na?" Wa ti, "Ngi vela le." 
Wa ti, " O, po, lapa, dade, kwa 
fiwa. Kw' emuka inkosazana 
yakwami. Uyise Iowa o m bone 
esangweni. A u ngi boni nami 
nginjena?" Wa ti, "Y 7 emuka 
ya ya ngapi na?" Wa ti, "Ya 
hamba nesilwanyazane." Wa ti, 
" Sa si m tatapi ? " Wati, "Wa 
e tombile ; kwa tatwa inkomo 
zaso, ngokuba uyise wa e te, e nga 
ka tombi umntwana, wa ti, uma e 
se tombile, ku ya 'utatwa inkomo, 
a buyiswe ngazo end/de, zi kcime 
ilanga. Kepa uyise a ka ze a ba 
nazo lezo 'nkomo ; kwa ye kwa 
tatwa ezesilwanyazane." Ya ti 
intombi, " 0, kepa, kanti ni kalela 


She went to the upper end of 
the town, seeing that it was her 
father's. On her arrival her mo- 
ther was making beer. She sat 
down under the wall, and said, 
" Eh ! chieftainess ! Give me of 
your umhhikqo." 49 They said, 
" Good day." She saluted in re- 
turn. She saw that her mother's 
head was disarranged, and asked, 
" But what is the matter at this 
kraal ? And what is the matter 
with that man at the gateway ? " 
The mother answered, saying, 
"You, whence do you come?" 
She replied, " I come from yon- 
der." The mother said, " O, in- 
deed, here, princess, death enter- 
ed. 50 The princess royal of my 
house went away. That is her 
father whom you saw at the gate- 
way. Do you not see, too, in 
what condition I am?" She re- 
plied, " When she went away, 
whither did she go ? " She said, 
" She went with the beast." She 
answered, "Where did he take 
her?" The mother said, "She 
was of age ; the cattle of the beast 
were taken away ; for her father 
had said, before she was of age, 
when she is of age, cattle should 
be taken with which to bring her 
home, which should darken the 
sun. But her father did not pos- 
sess so many cattle ; they went 
and took those of the beast." The 
girl said, " 0, but, why do you cry 


49 Umhhikqo is beer in an early state of preparation ; it is called isijingi 
sobutshwala, that is, beer-porridge. It consists of the ground mealies 
steeped in water - till it is sour. When mealies have been ground and 
mixed with water and boiled, it is called umpunga. When crushed mea- 
lies are steeped in hot water till it is sour, it is igwele. When the mealies 
have been taken from the igwele , and ground, and boiled in the sour water of 
the igwele , it is umhhikqo. Umpunga , igwele , and umhhikqo are all thin por- 
ridge, somewhat of the consistence of gruel. Ground malt is added to the um- 
hhikqo, and when fermentation has taken place, it is utshwala or beer. 

50 Kwa fiwa, lit. , it was died. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


209 


ni, loku umntwana wenu w' enzi- 
wa i nina nje na ? Na ni tatela ni 
inkomo zesilwanyazane ? Kanti 
na m bulala ngamabomu." Wa 
ti lo 'mfazi, " Wo, yeka le 'ntwana ! 
i bona ngoba ngi i pile umhhik^o 
wami. Se i ngi Aleka ngomnta- 
nami e nga se ko. U kona umu- 
ntu o nga tanda ukunika isilwa- 
nyazane na ? Angiti u loku w' e- 
muka umntanami lapa esizweni 
sikayise a ku sa buswa, se ku Ala- 
Iwanjena?" Wa ti, "Ngi lapa 
ke mina, mkxakaza-wakoging^wa- 
yo ; noma na ngi laAla, ngi buyile 
futi mina." 


The father summons the nation 


Wa kala unina, nabanye aba be 
/dezi emnyango. W' eza uyise e 
gijima, e ti, " Ni kalela ni na 1 " 
Ba ti, "Nang' Umkrakaza e fi- 
kile !" Wa ti uyise, " Po, e fikile 
njalo ku kalelwa ni ? " Wa turn a 
abantu uyise, wa ti, "A ba bambe 
isizwe sonke, be mema be tshela 
abantu, be ti, 1 A ku gaywe 
utshwala ilizwe lonke, u fikile 
Umkrakaza-wakoginggwayo.' " 


The whole nation h 

Kwa gaywa utshwala ilizwe 
lonke ; kwa butwa abantu, b' eza 
nezinkomo, be bonga ngokuba in- 
kosazana i fikile. Kwa /datshwa 
inkomo ; kwa d/dal wa umkosi 
uyise nonina ; uyise wa geka isi- 


then, since your child was treated 
badly by yourselves alone 1 Why 
did you take away the cattle of 
the beast? Forsooth, you killed 
her on purpose." The mother 
replied, " O, out upon the con- 
temptible thing ! it sees because I 
have given it my umhhik^o. It 
now laughs at me as regards my 
child which is dead. Does there 
exist a person who would be will- 
ing to give anything to the beast 1 
From the day my child departed 
from the midst of her father's 
nation, has there been any longer 
any joy ? do we not now just 
live ? " She replied, " Here I am, 
I Umkasakaza - wakoginggwayo ; 
although you left me, here I am 
again." 

to rejoice at the return of his 
hter. 

Her mother cried, and the 
others who were sitting by the 
door. The father came running, 
and saying, " Why are you cry- 
ing ? " They said, " Here is Um- 
krakaza come ! " Her father said, 
" Well, since she has thus come, 
why do you cry ? " Her father 
sent men, telling them to go to the 
whole nation, summoning the peo- 
ple and telling them to make beer 
throughout the land, for Umkra- 
kaza-wakoginggwayo had arrived. 

Ids a great festival. 

Beer was made throughout the 
land ; the people collected, bring- 
ing cattle, and rejoicing because 
the princess had arrived. Cattle 
were killed, and her father and 
mother had a great festival ; her 
father cut his hair, and put on a 


210 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Alito, \va beka isikcokco ; unina 
wa geka, wa beka inkeAli. Kwa 
jabulwa ilizwe lonke. 


bead-ring ; 51 her mother cut her 
hair, and put on a top-knot . 51 
There was rejoicing throughout 
the land. 


Many kings come to woo Umkxakaza. 


Kepa kwa ku dumile ezizweni 
zonke ukuba i kona inkosazana i 
fikile, inAle kakulu. Kwa ya in- 
kosi, i vela kwelinye ilizwe, y' eza 
'ku m kcela Umkxakaza. Uyise 
w' ala naye, wa ti, " U ya fika ; 
wa e mukile nesilwanyazane ; nga- 
loko ke a ngi tandi ukuba 'emuke ; 
ngi ya tanda ukuAlala ngi buse 
naye nje." Kw' eza amakosi 
amaningi ; kepa uyise a fike a tsho 
ilizwi li be linye nje. A ze 'emuka 
amakosi e nga m zekanga Umkxa- 
kaza. 


And it was rumoured among all 
the nations that the princess had 
returned to her home, and that she ' 
was very beautiful. A chief came 
from another country to ask Um- 
kxakaza of her father. He re- 
fused, saying, " She is just come 
home ; she was carried off by the 
beast ; therefore I do not wish that 
she should go away ; I wish to live 
and be glad with her." Many chiefs 
came; but her father gave them 
all but one answer. At length 
the chiefs went away, without get- 
ting Umkxakaza for a wife. 


A distant king hears of her beauty , and sends an old man to fetch her. 


Kepa kwa ku kona enye inkosi 
e kude ; ya i zwe ukuba ku kona 
leyo 'ntombi. Ya tuma ikxeku ; 
ya ti, " A ku ye Iona." La hamba 


But there was another chief of 
a distant country ; he had heard 
that there was that damsel. He 
sent an old man; he said, "Let 
him go." The old man went. 


51 The head-ring is made by rolling together the midribs of the leaves of 
the vegetable ivory plant ( ingqondo zeiala ) to about the size of the little finger ; 
this is bound carefully and regularly with a small cord, and bent into a ring, 
which varies in size with different tribes ; in this state it is called the ukqondo. 
This is sewn to the hair, and covered with the exudation of a species of coccus, 
called ungiana, or ingiane. The exudation is collected, and when the insect has 
been carefully separated, boiled to give it firmness ; it is then placed on the 
ukqondo ; it is black, and admits of a good polish. 

I have never met with a native who could give me any account of the origin 
of the head-ring or isikcokco. It is a sign of manhood ; and no one is permitted 
to assume it, until he has received the chief's command. It is regarded as the 
chief's mark, and must be treated with respect. If during a quarrel a man 
pluck off another's head-ring, it is regarded as a mark of contempt for the chief, 
and the man is heavily fined. The head-ring is kept in good order, except 
during affliction, when it is dull, being no longer burnished. It is thereby 
known that the man is in trouble. If a man quits his tribe, he sometimes takes 
off his head-ring, and is then called igundela , that is, one who is shorn. 

The top-knot of the woman is formed of red clay. It is of a bright colour, 
and is placed on the top of the head. At certain periods the chief directs 
young men and women to sew on the head-ring, and to fix the head-knot or in - 
lcehli. Much attention is paid to the head-ring and head-knot, and the hair is 
kept shaven both inside and outside the ring, and all around the knot. When 
they are in trouble this is neglected, and it can be seen at once by the head that 
there is some cause of affliction. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


211 


ikcceku. La fika esangweni, la 
gukguka isele eli/de, li kazimula. 
La ngena isele li kccokccoma, la 
/Jala empundwini. Umkccakaza e 
d/dala nabanye ngasesangweni, ba 
li bona isele lelo. Wa ti Umkcca- 
kaza, " Puma ni, ni zo'ubona loku 
oku/de." Ba puma abantu bonke 
be li buka, be ti, " La li/de isele ! " 


When he came to the entrance of 
the town, he turned into a beauti- 
ful and glistening frog. The frog 
entered leaping, and settled on the 
gatepost. Umkccakaza was play- 
ing with others near the gateway. 
They saw the frog. Umkccakaza 
said, " Come out and see this beau- 
tiful thing. ,, All the people came 
out, looking at it, and saying, 
" What a beautiful frog ! " 


Umkx.akaza and her people follow the frog. 


La kccokccoma, la puma nge- 
sango. Ku te uma se li puma, 
wa ti Umkccakaza, " Ngi pe ni 
izinto zami, ni zi fake ek^omeni 
zonke, ni hambe nazo." Kwa 
kalwa, kwa tiwa, " Hau, u fika 
kona manje, so u ya ngapi futi 
na?" Wa ti, " Ngi za 'u li lande- 
la, ngi ze ngi bone lapa li ya 
kona." Uyise wa kipa abantu 
aba 'mashumi 'mabili, be twala 
ukud/da nezinto zake. Ba hamba, 
be li landela isele li kccokccoma, ba 
ze ba katala. 


It leapt out of the gateway. 
When it had gone out Umkccakaza 
said, " O, give me my things ; 
place them all in a basket, and set 
out with them." They cried and 
said, " O, you are just arrived ; 
and where now are you going 
again ? " She replied, " I am 
going to follow the frog, to see 
where it is going." The father 
selected twenty men, to carry food 
and her things. They set out, 
following the frog as it leapt, 
until they were tired. 


The frog becomes an old man again , and proves treacherous. 


Wa hamba nalo yedwa Umkcca- 
kaza. Ba ti uma se be bodwa 
isele la penduka umuntu. Ku te 
lapa se li penduke umuntu, 
wa mangala Umkccakaza, wa ti, 
"W enziwe ini uma u be isele 
na!" Wa ti, "Ngi pendukile 
nje." Wa ti, " U ngi yisa ngapi 
na ?" Wa ti, " Ngi ku yisa ekaya 
enkosini yakwiti." Ba hamba 
naye ba ze ba ba kwesinye isizwe. 
Ku te lapa se be kude kakulu, wa 
bona i/dati elikulu lapa ind/dela i 
d/^lula kona. Ba ya ba fika e/da- 
tini ; kepa ikcceku Iona la 1' azi 
uma so ku seduze ekaya. La ti, 
" Hamba kakulu ; ku kude lapa si 


Umkccakaza travelled alone with 
it ; and when they were alone, the 
frog turned into a man. When it 
turned into a man, Umkccakaza 
wondered and said, "What was 
done to you, that you became a 
frog 1 " He said, " I just became 
a frog." She asked, " Where are 
you taking me % " He replied, 
"I am taking you home to our 
chief." They went together till 
they came to another nation. 
When they had gone a great dis- 
tance, she saw a large forest, 
through which the path went. 
They reached the forest ; but the 
old man knew that they were now 
near home. He said, " Make 
haste ; the place to which we are 


212 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ya kona." Wa hamba wa fika 
eMatini. La m tata, la i dMula 
indMela, la ya pakati kweMati. 
La ti, "Wo! Ulut' olu nje ngi 
te ngi yo' lu tatela omnnye umu- 
ntu nje ? " L' ema nave esigca- 
weni. Kepa Umkicakaza wa ma- 
ngala ukubona eMatini ukubona 
indawo enMe, ku nga ti ku Mala 
abantn. La ti iksceku, " A ku ze 
konke oku zizelayo." W' ezwa 
Umkccakaza ku bila iMati lonke, 
ku krrak^aza ; w' esaba. L' esuka 
ikreku, T enyukela ngasen/da, la 
memeza, li Alaba umlozi, li ti, 
" Fiyo, fiyo ! a ku ze oku zize- 
layo." 


U mkxakaza ascends a tree for s 

Umk.rakaza w' ema, wa ti, 
" Dabuka, kanda lami, ngi fake 
izinto zami." La dabuka ikanda 
lake, wa faka zonke izinto zake. 
La buya la /dangana, kwa ku nga 
ti a ku si lo eli dabukile. Kepa 
la li likulu ngokwesabekayo, ngo- 
kuba uma umuntu e li bona la li 
sabeka. Wa kwela emtini ; wa ti 
e se pezulu, kwa buye kwa /da- 
ngana imiti ; ngokuba wa e kwele 
imiti y enabile i /danganisile ; wa 
i penya, wa kwela, ya buye ya 
/dangana. 


All the beasts of the forest asst 

Wa bona TJmkxakaza umuzi 
ngapambili kwalelo Vdati. Wa 
Alala pezulu emtini. Za fika izilo, 
zi funa ; zi li bamba ikreku, li ti, 
" Ai, musa ni ukud/da mina ; ka 

52 Fiyo, fiyo , intended to imitate tl 


going is afar off." She reached the 
forest. The old man took her, and 
quitted the path, and went into 
the midst of the forest. He said, 
" Nay ! Shall I take so beautiful 
a thing as this just for another 
man?" He stood still with her 
in an open place. But Umkira- 
kaza wondered to see a beautiful 
place in the forest, as if men 
dwelt there. The old man said, 
" Let all beasts come, which come 
of their own accord." Umkccakaza 
heard the whole forest in a fer- 
ment, and crashing ; she was 
afraid. The old man departed, 
and went up the forest, and shout- 
ed, whistling, and saying, "Fiyo, 
fiyo ! 52 let all beasts come which 
come of their own accord." 

ifety , after transforming herself 

TJmkajakaza stood still and said, 
" Open, my head, that I may 
place my things inside." Her 
head opened, and she put in all 
her things. Her head again closed, 
and it was as though it had not 
opened. But it was fearfully 
large ; for when a man looked at 
it, it was fearful. She mounted a 
tree ; when she was on the top, 
the branches again came together ; 
for she had mounted where the 
trees were thick and united ; she 
turned aside the branches, and 
went up ; they again closed behind 
her. 

nble at the call of the old man. 

Umkxakaza saw a village in 
front of the forest. She remained 
on the tree. Wild beasts came, 
seeking for prey ; they caught hold 
of the old man ; he said, " No ; do 
not eat me ; she is no longer here 
3 sound made by whistling. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


213 


se ko e be ngi ni bizela yena ; a 
ngi sa m boni." Za li Mweba. 
La zi kuza, la ti, " Ngi yeke ni, 
banta bami ; ngi ya 'u ni pa ngo- 
mso." Za mnka ke. Ikxeku la 
sala, nalo la bamba la ya ekaya. 


for whom I called you ; I no 
longer see her." They tore him. 
He scolded them and said, " Leave 
me alone, my children ; I will 
give you something to-morrow." 
So they departed. The old man 
was left, and he set out and went 
home. 53 


Umk^ahaza again joins the old man, who wonders at the size of her 

head . 


Wa li bona Hmkceakaza se li 
pumele ngapandAle kwe/dati, w' e- 
Alika ngamand/da, wa gijima, wa 
puma eMatini. Wa ti lapa se li 
seduze nomuzi ikreku, wa li bona, 
wa ti, "Ngi linde, loku si hamba 
nawe : u ngi shiyela ni na ? " 
L' ema. Kepa la mangala li bona 
ikanda li likulu, ngokuba la li 
lincane ikanda likamkrrakaza. Ke- 
pa ikreku la 1' esaba ukubuza 
ukuti, " W enziwe ini?" ngokuba 
la m bizela izilwane. 


The people wish to drive her c 

Ba ngena ke ekaya ; w' ema 
emnyango ; la ti ikcceku la kuleka 
enkosini yalo, li ti, " Ngi m tolile 


When Umkrakaza saw that he 
had gone outside the forest, she 
descended quickly, and ran out of 
the forest. When the old man 
was near the village, she saw him, 
and said, "Wait for me, for we 
travel together : why do you leave 
me ? " He halted. But he won- 
dered when he saw that her head 
was large, for Umkxakaza's head 
used to be small. But the old 
man was afraid to ask, " What has 
done this to you?" for he had 
called the beasts to her. 

cay because of her deformity. 

They entered the village ; she 
stood at the doorway ; the old man 
made obeisance to his chief, saying, 


53 We find in one of the Northern tales something very like this. A damsel 
was passing through a forest guided by a white bear, who had given her strict 
directions not to touch anything as they were passing through. But the foliage 
glittered so beautifully around her that she could not resist the temptation, but 
put forth her hand and plucked a little silver leaf. " At the same moment the 
whole forest was filled with a terrific roaring, and from all sides there streamed 
forth an innumerable multitude of wild beasts, lions, tigers, and every other 
kind ; and they all went in pursuit of the bear, and strove to tear him in pieces." 
( Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories , p. 129.) Comp. " The Beautiful Palace east of the 
Sun and north of the Earth." At the word of the "very, very old woman" 
who ruled over the beasts of the field, there "came running out of the forest 
all kinds of beasts, bears, wolves, and foxes, inquiring what their queen's plea- 
sure might be. " In like manner all kinds of fishes assembled at the voice of 
their queen ; and all kinds of birds at the voice of theirs. (Id., pp. 163, 164, 
165. j So all the birds of the air, and all the beasts of the forest, were sent out 
to prevent the youth from obtaining the match of the wonderful horse, Grims- 
bork. (Id., p. 258.) In "The Three Princesses of Whiteland," the lords of 
beasts, birds, and fish are old men. ( Dasent. Popular Tales from the Norse, 

p. 212 . ; 


214 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


umfazi wako. Kepa ikanda lake 
eli nga lungile." Ba ngena en- 
d/ilini, ba Alala. Abantu bonke 
ba mangala, ba ti, "Yekaemu- 
Ale ; kepa ikanda, ungati isilwane." 
Ba ti, " A ka kscotshwe." Kepa 
kwa ku kona udade wabo wenkosi, 
'ala e ti, " Mu yeke ni : uma e isi- 
lima u nani 11a ? " 


" I have found a wife for you. 
But it is her head that is not 
right." They entered the house, 
and sat down. All the people 
wondered, saying, " O, she is beau- 
tiful ; but the head is like that of 
an animal." They said, " Let her 
be sent away." But the chief's 
sister was there ; she objected, 
saying, " Leave her alone : if she 
is deformed, what of that ? " 


The king's sister asks Umkxakaza to go to a dance . 


Kepa umyeni wa e nga m tandi 
e ti, " Loku ngi kgala ukuzeka, 
ngi inkosi, ngi k^ale ngesilima 
na ? " A ti udade wabo, " A ku 
nani. Mu yeke, a /dale, noma u 
nga m zekile." Wa /dala ke, be m 
biza ngokuti, Ukandakulu. Kwa 
vela iketo ; ya m ncenga intombi 
i ti, " Hamba, si yo'buka iketo." 
Kepa a ti Ukandakulu, " Loku 
mina ngi isilima, ngi za 'u/dekwa 
abantu, uma se be ngi kccotsha be 
ti ngi za 'kona iketo labo ; loku 
uma ngi vela, intombi zi ya 'uyeka 
ukusina, zi baleke, zi bona mina." 
Ya ti, " Kga, si ya 'u/dala kude, 
uma be /deka." Wa ti Ukanda- 
kulu, " A u z' usina ini wena na?" 
Ya ti, " Kgu, a ngi tandi, ngokuba 
ngi ya tanda ukuAlala nawe." 
Ngokuba leyo 'ntombi ya i m 
tanda kakulu, be tandana naye; 
ngako ke ya i nga tandi ukuya 
'usina, i m shiya yedwa. 


But the bridegroom did not love 
her, and said, " Since I am taking 
my first wife, and I a king, should 
I begin with a deformed person ? " 
His sister said, "It is no matter. 
Let her alone, that she may stay, 
even though you do not marry 
her." So she staid, and the people 
called her Ukandakulu . 54 There 
was a gathering of the people to a 
dance : the damsel 55 asked her to 
go with her to look at the dance. 
But Ukandakulu said, " Since I 
am a deformed person, the people 
will laugh at me, when they drive 
me away, saying I came to spoil 
their dance ; for if I make my 
appearance, the damsels will leave 
off dancing, and run away when 
they see me." She said, "No, we 
will sit down at a distance if they 
laugh." Ukandakulu said, "Will 
not you yourself dance?" She 
replied, "No, I do not wish to 
dance, for I wish to remain with 
you." For the damsel loved her 
very much, and she loved her in 
return ; therefore she did not like 
to go to dance, and leave her 
alone. 


The dance is broken up on the appearance of Umkxakaza. 

Ba Aloha ; be be hamba boba - 1 They put on their ornaments, 
bili, be ya eketweni. Ba ti aba | and went both to the dance. Those 

54 Ukandakulu , Big-head. 

55 That is, the chiefs sister. 


UMKXAKAZA-WAKOGINGQWAYO. 


215 


•* 


ba bon ay o ba baleka, ba ti, " Si 
kona isilima esi hamba nentomba- 
zana." Ba ti, " Si njani ? " Ba 
ti, " Hau, ikanda li y' esabeka ka- 
kulu." Kwa ti, be sa vela, kwa 
baleka abantu bonke ; ba ye ba 
kuzwa, kwa tiwa, " Musa ni ukuza 
lapa." B' esuka ba ye ba Alala 
egangeni, kwa za kwa pela uku- 
sina : ba buya ba /Jala ekaya. Ku 
batsbazwa isizwe sonke, si ti, " Ni 
nga ku bona oku zekwe inkosi." 


who saw them fled, saying, " There 
is a deformed thing walking with 
the princess." They asked, " What 
is it like?" They said, " O, the 
head is very fearful." And imme- 
diately on their arrival at the 
dancing-place, all the people fled ; 
and some warned them off, saying, 
"Don't come here." They went 
away, and sat on a hill, until the 
dance was ended; then they re- 
turned and sat down at home. 
The whole nation exclaimed in 
wonder, "You should see the thing 
which the chief has married." 


Umkxakaza assumes her original beauty , and makes herself known to 
the king's sister. 


Kwa ba izinsuku eziningi, be 
Alezi ekaya. Kwa ti ngolunye 
usuku ba hamba ba ya 'ugeza. 
Ba fika ba geza, ba puma emanzini, 
b' ema pezu kwezidindi zotshani, 
b' enzela ukuze k' ome imizimba 
nezinyawo, ngokuba ba be kcopile 
izinyawo zabo. Ya kuluma in- 
tombi, i ti, " Hau, w' enzfwa ini, 
kandakulu, ukuba nje na?" Wa 
ti, " Ukuvela kwami nje." Ya ti 
intombi, " Hau, nga u ba urnu/de, 
mnta kwetu, kandakulu ; w oniwe 
ikanda." Wa Ale ka Ukandakulu, 
wa e se ti, " Dabuka, kanda lami, 
ku pume izinto zami." La dabuka 
masinyane ikanda, kwa puma izi- 
nto zake, wa zi beka pansi. La 
/dangana ikanda, la ba lincane. 
Ya ti intombi ngokubona loko, ya 
ziponsa kuyena, i m bamba ; ba 
/deka kakulu ngokungenakulinga- 
niswa, i ti intombi, " Konje ku 
nga ba u yena e si ti Ukanda- 
kulu ? " Ba ging^ana odakeni, be 
/deka, b' a/duleka ukuvuka. Ba 


They remained at home many 
days. On a certain occasion they 
went to bathe. They bathed, they 
went out of the water, and stood 
on the sods of grass, that their 
body and feet might dry, for they 
had scraped their feet. 56 The 
damsel spoke, saying, " O, what 
caused you, Ukandakulu, to be as 
you are?" She replied, "It is 
natural to me merely." The dam- 
sel said, " 0, you would be beauti- 
ful, child of my parents, Ukanda- 
kulu ; you are spoilt by your 
head." Ukandakulu laughed and 
said, " Open, my head, that my 
things may come out." Her head 
opened immediately, her things 
came out, and she placed them on 
the ground. Her head closed and 
was small again. The damsel, on 
seeing this, threw herself on her, 
laying hold of her ; they laughed 
immoderately, the damsel say- 
ing, " Truly can it be she 
whom we call Ukandakulu ? " 
They rolled each other in the 
mud, laughing, and unable to get 


56 " They had scraped their feet." — The natives when they wash rub their 
feet with a soft sandstone, to remove the cracks and inequalities. 


D D 


216 


IZINCANEKWANE. 


ze ba vuka, ba geza futi. B' ema, 
i ti, " Wa w enze njani na V Wa 
ti, " Nga ngi fake izinto zami." 
Wa ku landa konke okw' enziwa 
ikiceku. Ya mangala intombi. 
Wa ti, " Nako ke okwa ng' enza 
uma ikanda lami li be likulu." 
Wa i nika enye ingubo kwezake 
yena Umkccakaza ; wa binca yake 
yezindondo; wa i tshela, wa ti, 
" Ngi U mkicakaza- wakoginggwayo, 
igama lami." 


The people admire her , 

Ba buya ba ya ekaya ; ba fika 
b' ema emnyango. Kwa puma 
abantu, ba ti, " Nansi intombi e 
zo'gana." Ba ti abanye, " Eyaka- 
bani ? " Ba ti aba i bonileyo, " A 
si y azi uma i vela ngapi." Ba ti, 
" Inye ? " Ba ti, " Zimbili. Kepa 
si ti enye i pelezela enye." Ba 
puma abantu bonke, ba buka be 
buza be ti, "I i pi e zo'gana ku- 
nina nobabili na ? " Ngokuba be 
nga ba bonisisi, ngokuba ba be 
folile, be bheka pansi. Ya lulama 
intombi yakona ekaya, ya ti, 
" Ukandakulu lo." Ba mangala 
abantu bonke ; ba gijima, ba tshela 
inkosi, ba ti, " U nga m bona 
Ukandakulu, lapa ikanda lake li 
njalo." Ya puma inkosi, ya m 
bona. Kwa bizwa inkomo, kwa 
Alatshwa inyama eningi. Kwa 
menywa isizwe sonke ; ku tiwa, 
" A ku butane abantu, ku za 'uke- 
telwa inkosikazi." Ba mangala 
bonke aba m bona Ukandakulu. 


up. At length they got up and 
bathed again. As they were 
standing, the damsel said, " What 
had you done ? " She replied, " I 
had placed my things in my head." 
She then related all that was done 
by the old man. The damsel 
wondered ; and Umkrrakaza said, 
" That, then, was it that made me 
have a large head." Umkceakaza 
gave her one of her garments. 
She put on her own garment which 
was ornamented with brass beads, 
and told her, saying, " I am Um- 
kccakaza-wakoging^wayo ; that is 
my name." 

and the king loves her. 

They returned home ; on their 
arrival they stood at the doorway. 
The people went out and said, 
" There is a damsel come to point 
out her husband." Others said, 
" Whose daughter is she V Those 
who saw her said, "We do not 
know whence she comes." They 
asked, " Is she alone 1 " They 
replied, " There are two. But we 
say one accompanies the other." 
All the people went out and look- 
ed, asking, " Which of you two is 
come to point out a husband ? " 
For they did not see them dis- 
tinctly, for they had bent down 
their heads, looking on the ground. 
The damsel of the village raised 
her head, and said, " This is Uka- 
ndakulu." All the people won- 
dered, and ran and told the. chief, 
" You should see Ukandakulu 
when her head is as it is." The 
chief went out and saw her. He 
called for many cattle, and many 
were slaughtered. The whole na- 
tion was summoned ; it was said, 
" Let the people assemble ; they 
are going to dance for the queen." 
All wondered who saw Ukanda- 


THE TWO BROTHERS. 


217 


Kwa gaywa utshwala, kwa ketwa 
inkosi ; ya m tanda kakulu. I ti 
intombi, " Ku njani ke manje, 
loku na ni ti, a ka kxotshwe na 1 " 


The old man is killed ; and Umk: 
happily < 

La bulawa ika?eku ngokuba 1' e- 
nze leyo 'mikuba. Wa ze wa 
buyela kubo nezinkomo zokwenda 
abayeni. Ba fika kubo ; kwa tiwa, 
" U fikile Umk.xakaza-wakogi- 
ng^wayo." Kwa Alatshiswa aba- 
yeni izinkomo eziningi ; ba m 
lobola masinyane, w' enda. In- 
kosi ya m tanda kakulu ; wa ba 
umfazi wayo. Wa busa ka/de 
nendoda yake. 

Lydia. 


kulu. Beer was made ; the king 
danced ; he loved Umkccakaza 
very much. His sister said, 
" How then is it now, since you 
gave directions that she should be 
sent away 1 " • 

ikaza marries the king , and lives 
•>er after. 

The old man was killed because 
he was guilty of such practices. 
At length she returned to her 
father's with the cattle by which 
the bridegroom's people declared 
her his chosen bride. They arrived 
at her father's ; they said, " Um- 
k&akaza-wakoginggwayo is come." 
The bridegroom's people had many 
cattle killed for them ; they paid 
her dowry immediately. She was 
married. The king loved her 
very much ; she became his wife. 
She reigned prosperously with her 
husband. 


IZELAMANI. 

(the TWO BROTHERS.) 


Two brothers go out to hunt , and fall in with an old woman. 


Kwa ti ukusuka, abanta bamntu 
munye ba ya 'uzingela ; b' elamana. 
Ba fukanisa impanda, iminingi, 
y' enz' ulu/da olude. Wa fika 
w' esaba omkulu impanda ; wa i 
zibukula omneinane. Wa i zibu- 
kula yonke ; kwa ti kwowokugeina 
kwa puma isalukazana. 


It happened in times long ago, 
that the children of a certain man 
went out to hunt ; one was older 
than the other. They fell in with 
a large number of pots, forming a 
long row. When the elder brother 
came to them, he was afraid of 
the pots ; the younger turned them 
up. He turned all of them up, 
and a little old woman came out 
of the last. 57 


57 Compare the Basuto legend, "The Murder of Maciloniane." ( Casalis , 
p. 339 . ) The differences and similarities are remarkable. In the Basuto legend 
the brothers had separated, and the younger finds the pots alone ; " a monstrous 


218 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The old woman shows them something to their advantage. 


Sa ti komkulu, " Ngi peleke- 
zele." W' ala. Sa ti komncane, 
"Ngi pelekezele." Wa vuma 
omncane. Wa landela omkulu. 
Ba kamba, ba kamba, ba ya ba 
fika ezweni eli nomuti o nezinko- 
mo ; be pet' imbazo. Sa ti isalu- 
kazi kumncane, " Gaula lo 'muti." 
Wa gaula, kwa puma inkomo ; wa 
gaula, kwa puma- inkomo, zaningi ; 
kwa ti ngemva kwa pum' imvu ; 
kwa ti ngemva kwa pum' imbuzi ; 
kwa ti ngemva kwa puma inkabi 
em/dope. 


She said to the elder, " Come 
with me." He refused. She said 
to the younger, " Come with me." 
The younger one went with her, 
and the elder followed. They 
went on and on. At length they 
came to a country where there was 
a tree which had cattle. They 
carried axes in their hands. The 
old woman said to the younger 
boy, " Hew the tree." He hewed 
it ; there came out a bullock ; he 
hewed it, there came out a large 
number of cattle ; and after that 
there came out a sheep, and after 
that a goat, and after that a white 
ox. 38 


As they return home , the elder forsakes the younger. 

The little old woman remained 
there. They departed, both of 
them driving the cattle, with their 
dogs, with which they hunted. 
So they went on their way ; the 
country was scorched 59 up, there 
being no water. At length they 
came to the top of a precipice; 
the elder said, " Tie a rope round 
me, that I may go and drink at 
the bottom of the precipice ; for 
there is no way of going down." 
So he tied a rope round him, and 
let him down ; at length he let 
him down to the bottom ; he drank 

man," with a very big leg, and one of the ordinary size, comes out of the pot ; 
the man is killed by Maciloniane' s dogs ; and on cutting up the large leg an im- 
mense herd of beautiful cattle come out. Maciloniane is killed by his brother 
for the sake of a white cow ; and a bird follows the murderer, and upbraids 
him, and proclaims the murder among the people of his village. The bird was 
the heart of Maciloniane. 

58 The enchanted princess gave Strong Frank a sword, saying, "When thou 
strikest on. a tree, soldiers shall march out in multitudes, as many as thou re- 
quirest." (Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p. 429.) 

59 Izwe V omisile. — Lit., the country scorched, or dried up, viz., grass, 
trees, and rivers ; that is, there being no rain, the earth became hot, and dried 
up herbage, &c. 

60 Wa wa m beka for Wa ya wa m beka. 


ba sala lapo lsalukazaiia# xJa 
kamba be k^ub' inkomo bobabili, 
be kamba nenja zabo a ba zingela 
ngazo. Ba kamba ke, izwe 1' omi- 
sile, li nge namanzi. Ba ya ba 
vela pezu kwewa ; wa t' omkulu, 
" Ngi kunge ngomkcilo, ngi yo'u- 
puza amanzi lapa eweni, ku nge 
ko 'ndawo yokweAla." Wa m 
kunga ke. Warn eAlisa ke. Wa 
wa m beka ; 60 wa puza, wa puza ; 


THE TWO BROTHERS. 


21D 


wa kolwa ke ; wa m kupula. Wa 
t' omncane, " Kami ke ngi kunge, 
ngi yo'puza." Wa in kunga ke. 
Wa wa m beka, wa m yeka. Wa 
zi k^uba inkomo omkuln. Wa ya 
wa fika ekaya kuyise nonina. 
Kwa tiw' omunye, " U m shiye pi 
na?" Wa ti, "Wa buya kuk^ala, 
mina ng' emuka nesalukazi, sa ya 
'u ngi pa inkomo." Kwa lalwa ke. 


and was satisfied ; and he drew 
him up again. The younger said, 
" Tie a rope round me too, that I 
may go and drink." He tied a 
rope round him, and let him down 
to the bottom and left him. The 
elder one drove off the cattle. At 
length he came home to his father 
and mother. One asked, " Where 
have you left your brother ?" He 
replied, " He returned before me ; 
for my part, I went with an old 
woman ; she gave me these cattle." 
They retired to rest. 


The bird-messenger. 


Kwa ti ku sa kusasa ya fik' in- 
yoni, ya ti, " Tshiyo, tshiyo, tslii- 
yo ; umntanako u pakw' emanzini." 
Ba t' abantu, " Ni y' ezwa nje 
le 'nyoni i ti ni na ? " Ba t' aba- 
ntu, "A i landelwe, lo i kalisa 
kwen/damvu nje, e bizela abantu 
inyosi." Wa i landela unina no- 
yise. Ya kamba njalo, i ti, 
" Tshiyo, tshiyo, tshiyo ; umnta- 
nako u pakw' emanzini." Ya fika, 
ya tshona kona la be b' eAla kona, 
be puz' amanzi. Ya kal' i nga- 
pansi. Wa lunguz' uyise kon' e- 
weni, wa ti, " O, u bekwe ini lapo 
na?" Wa ti, " Ngi shiywe umfo 
wetu, be si puz' amanzi ; ngi k^ale 
ngaye, nga m e/disa, nga m kupu- 
la. Wa ng' e/disa ke, wa ngi 
yeka ke. Ngob' able ukuzibukula 
umpanda : kwa puma isalukazana 
ke. Sa nasusa yena, sa ti, ka si 
pelekezele, a si yise ezweni. W' a- 
la. Wa t' ub' ale ke, sa t' a ku 
kambe mina. Nga vuma ke mina. 


Early in the morning a bird 
came, saying, " Tshiyo, tshiyo, 
tshiyo; your child has been put 
into the water." The men said, 
" Do you hear what this bird 
says?" The people said, "Let 
us follow it, since it cries like the 
honey-bird, when it is calling men 
to where there is honey." The 
father and mother followed it. It 
went on constantly saying, " Tshi- 
yo, tshiyo, tshiyo ; your child is 
put into the water." At length it 
descended to the place where they 
had gone down to drink. It still 
cried when it was at the bottom. 
The father looked over the pre- 
cipice, and asked, " O, what placed 
you there ?" He replied, " I have 
been left here by my brother when 
we were drinking water; I first 
let him down, and drew him up 
again. Then he let me down, and 
left me. For he refused to turn 
up the pots ; and a little old 
woman came out. She besought 
him to accompany her, and take 
her to a certain country. He re- 
fused. When he refused she asked 
I me to go. So I went . 61 She did 


61 How common is this kind of tale among other people, where a younger 
brother, or sister, or step-sister, gains great advantages by performing readily 
some act of kindness ; whilst the elder suffers for his churlishness. 


220 


IZING.A NEK WANE. 


A sa bi sa tsho kuye ukuti, ka 
gaul' umuti ; sa t' a ngi u gaule 
mina. Nga u gaula ke umuti ; 
kwa puma inkomo nezimvu nein- 
buzi, nenkabi em/dope. Sa ti ke 
inkomo ezami ke, mina ngi mnca- 
ne. Kwa ku pela ke. Sa zi 
kguba ke inkomo. U ngi yek' e- 
manzini nje, w' esab' uku ngi 
gwaza." 

The younger is rescued, < 

Wa e se ti uyise, " 0 ! Kepa 
si za 'u kw enza njani, lo nanku u 
lapo nje pansi eweni h " Wa ti, 
" Landa ni umkcilo ekaya, ni u 
ponse lapa, ngi zikunge, ngi u 
tekelezele kulo omunye a ngi yeke 
nawo." A buye ke uyise, ku Ala- 
1' unina. 


U m ponsel' umpako, a be be u 
dAla. Uyise a kamb' a kambe, a 
fik' ekaya, lapa a nga za i zeka 
kuyo indodana indaba le. A tshe- 
1' omunye 'rnuntu ukuya 'u m ku- 
pulisa. Ba ye ba fike ke, ba u 
ponse umkcilo kuye, a u tekelezele, 
a ti, "Ngi kupule ni ke." Ba m 
kupula ke. Unina ke a be se 
kala ke. La e se m zekele indaba 
yabo yokukamba, ba buva, se be 
y' ekaya. 

Ba te be fika ya se i balekile ke 
indodana enkulu ; a y aziwa la i 
ye ngakona. 

Ukofana Dhladhla . 62 

152 There are peculiarities in the sty] 
will at once note. ¦ The man is of the A 


not tell him after that to hew the 
tree ; but she told me to hew it. 
So I hewed the tree, and there 
came out cattle, and sheep and 
goats, and a white ox. She said 
the cattle were mine, who am the 
younger. That was the end of it. 
So we drove the cattle. He left 
me in the water, for he was afraid 
to stab me." 

nd the elder disappears. 

The father said, " 0 ! What 
shall we do, since there you are at 
the foot of the precipice 1 " He 
said, "Fetch another rope from 
home, and throw it down to me 
here, that I may tie it round me, 
and fasten it to the one which he 
left with me." The father returned 
home, and the mother staid with 
him. 

She threw him down the food 
they had taken for the journey. 
The father went, and reached his 
home ; he did not tell the elder 
son. He told another person to 
go and draw him up. They went 
and threw him a rope ; he fastened 
it, and told them to draw him up. 
So they drew him up. And his 
mother wept. When he had 
given them the account of their 
journey, they returned home. 

When they arrived the elder 
son had already fled, and it was 
not known whither he had gone. 


e of this tale which the Zulu student 
.makuza tribe. 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


221 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


The kings child and l 

Kw' esukela, inkosi ya tata abafazi 
abaningi. Wa mita omunye. 
Kwa zalwa inkomo. Ya ti, "Um- 
zolwana ku zala Unobani, um- 
ntwana u ya 'kubekwa kule 'nko- 
mo." Ibizo layo Ubongopa-kama- 
gadAlela. Kwa zalwa umntwana, 
wa bekwa pezu kwenkomo; wa 
Alala pezu kwayo, wa lala kona ; 
ka y embata ingubo ; ukudAla 
kwa yiswa kona kumntwana. 
Kwa Aiwa kwa valwa esangweni, 
abantu ba lala ezindAlini ; um- 
ntwana wa lala pezu kwenkabi. 

Kwa sa kusasa wa ti umntwana, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

U bo vuka ; 64 ku ya vukwa ; 

U bo vuka ; ku ya vukwa." 

'Eme ke Ubongopa. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

U bo hamba ; ku ya banjwa ; 

U bo hamba ; ku ya hanjwa." 

Wa hamba wa ya 'kudAia ; za fika 
edAlelweni lazo, za dAla. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

U bo buya ; ku ya buy wa ; 

U bo buya ; ku ya buywa." 

63 The meaning of Ubongopa is not 
Ubongopa's father. It is compounded ( 
with the head, as rams in fighting. Th 
it is a name implying, When he strikes 

64 U bo vuka is a mode of speech c 
&c. It is equivalent to the Zulu, Sa u 


r bongopa-kamagadhlela. 

In the times of long ago, a king 
took many wives. When one 
was with child, an ox was born. 
The king said, " When So-and-So 
gives birth, the child shall be 
placed on this ox." The name of 
the ox was Ubongopa-kamagadhle- 
la . 63 The child was born and put 
on the ox ; he remained on it, and 
slept on it ; he did not put on any 
blanket ; food was taken there to 
him. When it was dark the gate 
of the village was closed, and the 
people went to sleep in the houses ; 
the child slept on the ox. 

In the morning the child said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Awake now ; it is time to 
awake ; 

Awake now ; it is time to 
awake." 

Ubongopa stood up. He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Set out now ; it is time to set 
out ; 

Set out now; it is time to set 
out." 

He went to graze ; the cattle ar- 
rived at their pasture, and grazed. 
He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Return now ; it is time to re- 
turn ; 

Return now; it is time to re- 
turn." 

known. Uma-gadhlela is the name of 
f Uma and gaahlela , to strike against 
3 full form would be Uma-e-gadhlela ; 
with the head, he conquers. 
ommon to the Amangwane, Ama/dubi, 


222 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


A buye ke ; za buya, za fika ekaya. 
Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagaclAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

IJ bo ngena ; ku ya ngenwa ; 

U bo ngena ; ku ya ngenwa." 

A ngene ke ; za ngena zonke. 
Kwa fika ukudAla kwake ; wa 
dAla kona pezulu enkabeni yake. 

Wa za wa kula, umlilo e nga 
w azi, ingubo e nga y embati ; e 
lala kona pezulu, a nga u nyateli 
um/dabati ; wa za wa ba insizwana. 

Thieves come to stt 

Kwa fika amasela ezizwe, a ze 
'kuba izinkomo. A vula esangwe- 
ni, a ngena, e pete izinduku. Be 
lele abantu, a b' ezwa. A zi tsbaya 
izinkomo, a za vuka pansi. Z' a- 
puka izinduku zawo a wa zi pete- 
yo ; 'emuka ebusuku. .» 


Kwa sa kusasa wa ti, " V uka, 
bongopa-kamagad/dela." Wa vu- 
ka. Wa ti, " Hamba u ye 'ku- 
d/da." Wa liamba ; za liamba 
zonke izinkomo. Wa ti, a zi d/de ; 
za d/da zonke. Za buya emini. 
Kwa fika ukud/da, wa d/da kona 
pezulu enkabeni. Wa ti, a zi 
kambe; za hamba. Wa ti, a zi 
d/de ; za d/da. Wa ti, a zi buye ; 
za buya. 

Kwa Aiwa, kwa valwa esangwe- 
ni ; ba vala abantu ezind/dini, ba 
lala ubutongo. A fika amasela, a 
vela esangweni, e gone izinduku ; 
a zi tshaya izinkomo ; a za vuka ; 
z' apuka izinduku. 'Ernuka ebu- 


So l\e returned; the cattle went 
home again. He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Enter the pen; it is time to 
enter ; 

Enter the pen; it is time to 
enter." 

So he entered, and all the cattle 
entered. His food was brought ; 
he ate it on the top of his ox. 

He lived thus until he grew up, 
being unacquainted with fire, not 
having worn any garment, and not 
having trodden on the ground. 
At length he was a young man. 

%l the king's cattle. 

There came some thieves from 
another tribe to steal the cattle. 
They opened the gate and went in, 
carrying sticks in their hands. 
The people, being asleep, heard 
nothing. They beat the cattle; 
they did not arise ; the sticks 
which they carried were broken ; 
and they went away again by 
night. 

In the morning he said, " A- 
wake, Ubongopa-kamagadhlela. " 
He awoke. He said, "Go to 
graze." He went ; and all the 
cattle went. He told them to 
graze ; and all grazed ; they went 
home again at noon. His food 
was brought, and he ate it on the 
ox. He told them to go, and they 
went ; he told them to eat, and 
they ate ; he told them to return, 
and they returned. 

In the evening the gateway was 
closed ; the people shut themselves 
up in their houses, and slept. The 
thieves came and opened the gate- 
way, carrying sticks in their arms ; 
they beat the cattle *; they did not 
get up; the sticks broke. They 


TJBON GOPA-K AMAGADHLEL A. 


223 


suku. A kuluma e hamba, a ti, 
" Lezi 'zinkomo zi nani, uba zi nga 
viiki ? " A ti, " A si gaule izin- 
duku kakulu." 


Kwa sa ngolwesitatu, (a va m 
boni umuntu o pezulu enkabeni,) 
wa ti, a zi vuke, zi hambe, zi ye 
'kud/da. Wa hamba Ubongopa- 
kamagad/dela. Za d/d a. Wa ti, 
a zi buye ; za buya ngolwesitatu. 
Kw' eza ukud/da kwake, wa d/da 
kona pezulu enkabini, kubongopa. 
Wa ti, a zi hambe, zi ye 'kud/da ; 
za ya. Wa ti, a zi buye ; za buya, 
Kwa /dwa, a fika amasela ebusuku, 
a zi tshaya izinkomo ; a za vuka ; 
z' apuka izinduku ; a za vuka izin- 
komo. A z' apula imisila, a za 
vuka. 'Emuka ebusuku. A teta, 
a ti, " A si gaule izinyanda ngam- 
bili, kona ku ya 'kuba kw apuka 
lezo, si tate ezinye." A ti, "A 
'bonanga si ku bona loku." 


Kwa /dwa ngolwesine, a peleke- 
zela, a beka ekcaleni komuzi. Kwa 
valwa esangweni, ba lala abantu. 
A fika ebusuku, a vula, a ngena, a 
zi tshaya izinkomo, z' apuka izin- 
duku, za pela izinyanda ; a puma, 
a tata ezinye izinyanda, a ngena 
nazo esibayeni, a zi tshaya izin- 
komo, z' apuka izinduku ; 'emuka. 


Kwa sa kusasa wa ti, a zi ha- 
mbe zi ye 'kud/da ngolwesiAlanu. 
Abantu ka ba tsheli ukuba ku fika 


went away again by night. They 
conversed as they were going, say- 
ing, " What is the matter with 
these cattle, that they do not get 
up 1 ?" They said, "Let us cut a 
great many sticks." 

On the morning of the third 
day, (they did not see a person on 
the ox,) he told them to get up 
and go to graze. Ubongopa-ka- 
magadhlela went; the cattle grazed. 
He told them to return on the 
third day. His food was brought ; 
he ate it on the top of the ox, on 
Ubongopa. He told them to go 
and graze ; they went : he told 
them to return home ; they re- 
turned. It was dark ; the thieves 
came by night ; they beat the 
cattle ; they did not awake ; the 
sticks broke ; the cattle did not 
get up. They wrenched their 
tails ; they did not get up. They 
went away in the night. They 
spoke passionately, saying, " Let 
us each cut two bundles of sticks, 
that when one bundle is broken, 
we may take the other." They 
said, "We never saw such a thing 
as this." 

On the night of the fourth day, 
they brought the bundles by going 
and returning twice, and placed 
them outside the village. The 
gateway was shut, and the people 
slept. The thieves came by night ; 
they opened the gate and went in ; 
they beat the cattle ; their sticks 
broke ; the first bundles were 
used ; they went and took the 
others, and went with them into 
the kraal ; they beat the cattle ; 
the sticks broke ; and the tliieves 
went away. 

In the morning he told the 
cattle to go and graze on the fifth 
day. He did not tell the people 


E E 


224 


IZIXGANEKWANE. 


amasela ebusuku, a ze 'kuba izin- 
komo, ku be indaba yake a zazele. 
Za hamba; wa ti, a zi d/de, za 
dAla. Wa ti, a zi buye, za buya, 
za fika ekaya. Kw' eza ukud/da, 
wa d/da. Ba kuluma, uyise wa 
ti, " Mntanami, u tukutele, izin- 
komo u ya zi tshaya kakulu imi- 
vinibo." Ba bona nkuba zi vuvu- 
kile, zi tsbaywe ngamasela ebu- 
suku ; ba ti zi tsliaywe u yena. 


that thieves came by night to 
steal the cattle ; it was a matter 
known only to himself. They 
went ; he told them to graze, and 
they grazed ; he told them to re 
turn, and they returned home. 
His food was brought, and he ate. 
The people talked ; his father said, 
" My child, you are passionate ; 
you have beaten the cattle with 
many stripes." They saw that 
they were swollen, having been 
beaten by the thieves by night ; 
and thought he had beaten them. 


They detect the king's son. 


Kwa Aiwa a fika ebusuku, a 
vula esangweni, a ngena, a zi 
tshaya izinkomo, a za vuka ; z' a- 
puka izinduku, za sala ngazinye. 
Wa m bona omunye emaseleni, wa 
ti, " Nang' umuntu ow' engaba 
nezinkomo." Ba ti, " Kuluma." 
Wa kuluma, wa ti, 


" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo vuka ; ku ya vukwa ; 

U bo vuka ; ku ya vukwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 'l " 

Wa vuka Ubongopa-kamagadAlela, 
w' ema. Wa ti, 

M Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

TJ bo hamba ; ku ya hanj wa ; 

U bo hamba ; ku ya hanj wa ; 
Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Wa hamba, za hamba. Kwa pu- 
ma amankonyana eziud/dini, a 
zikulula ezisingeni ; a vula em- 


The next night the thieves came 
again; they opened the gateway 
and went in ; they beat the cattle, 
they did not awake ; their sticks 
broke, each man had but one left. 
One of the thieves saw him, and 
said, " There is the fellow who re- 
fuses to allow the cattle to move." 
They said to him, " Speak." He 
spoke and said, 

" XJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Awake now ; it is time to 
awake ; 

Awake now ; it is time to 
awake ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

Ubongopa - kamagadhlela awoke 
and stood up. He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

Ubongopa went, and all the cattle. 
The calves came out of the house ; 
they freed themselves from the 
cords by which they were tied ; 
they opened the door, and followed 


UBONCOPA-KAMAGADIILELA. 


225 


nyango, a landela aonina. Ba lele 
abantu. Z' ema esangweni. Ba 
ti, " Kuluma, mfana. Sa ku 
gwaza." Wa ti, " Ni nge ngi 
gwaze." Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kam agadAlela, 

U bo hamba ; ku ya banjwa ; 

U bo hamba ; ku ya hanjwa ; 
Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 1 " 

Wa hamba TJ bongopa-kamaga- 
d/dela. 


their mothers. The people were 
asleep. They stood still at the 
gateway. The thieves said, 
" Speak, boy. You are stabbed." 65 
He replied, "You cannot stab 
me," and said, 

" TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadklela, 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 1 " 

TJbongopa-kamagadhlela went. 


The king and people are alarmed at his absence. 


Wa puma umuntu kulowo 'mu- 
zi lapa izinkomo zi puma kuwo, 
wa ti, " Inkosi i tombile, izinkomo 
i zi vuse ebusuku." Wa memeza 
uyise, wa ti, "A ku pekwe uku- 
d/da, inkosi i tombile, uyise kabo- 
ngopa." Kwa pekwa ukud/da 
isizwe sonke sikayise. L' emuka 
ilanga, la tshona, kwa Aiwa. Kwa 
funwa, kwa kalwa, kwa tiwa, 
" TJmntwana u d/diwe ini ebusuku 
na? Wa hamba nezinkomo na- 
mankonyana ezincl/dini." 


A man of the village from 
which the cattle had been driven 
went out of the house ; he said, 
" The king is of age, 66 for he has 
aroused the cattle by night." He 
called his father ; he said, " Let 
food be cooked ; the king, the 
father of TJbongopa, 67 is of age." 
The whole tribe of his father made 
beer. The sun declined, it set, it 
became dark. The people looked 
for him, and cried, saying, " What 
has devoured the child during the 
night 1 He set out with the cattle 
and the calves from the houses." 


The boy tries the thieved patience. 


Ekuhambeni kwabo wa ti um- 
fana, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo ma ; kn y' emiwa ; 

U bo ma ; ku y' emiwa ; 


As they went the boy said, 

" TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Stand' still now ; it is time to 
stand still ; 

Stand still now; it is time to 
stand still ; 


65 Sa ku gwaza . — Aorist used inter jectionally. "We stabbed you ! " that 
is, you are as good as stabbed ; you are a dead man. 

G3 " The king is of age." — When a youth comes to maturity, he drives the 
cattle out of the pen to a distance from his home, and does not return till noon. 
Here, as in some other tales, the prince royal is called king. But it is not now 
the custom to do so among the Zulus. 

He is called the father of Ubongopa, probably because he was in an 
especial manner his owner. 


226 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Z' ema. A ti, " Kuluma. Sa ku 
gwaza." Wa ti, " Ni nge ngi 
gwaze." A ti, " U ini?" Wa ti, 
" A ngi si Tuto." A ti, " U gabe 
ngani ? U tsho ngokuba w' engaba 
nezinkomo zenkosi, sa za sa felwa 
inyanga ngawe?" Wa ti, 


" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

TJ bo hamba ; ku ya hanjwa ; 

TJ bo hamba ; ku ya lianjwa ; 
Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Za hamba ke. 

They reach the king , who 

Kwa tunywa elinye isela ; la 
fika enkosini, la ti, "Si zi dAlile 
izinkomo, zi nomlingo, zi lala 
umuntu 69 pezulu kweukabi, kubo- 
ngopa-kamagad/dela." Kwa tiwa, 
" Buyela, u ti, A zi tshetshe, zi tike 
kimina." Za hamba ngamand/da, 
za vela okalweni. La ti, " Nanzo ; 
zi nomfana pezulu enkabeni em /do- 
pe ; u nomlingo, u ti, a zi me, zi 
me." Ya ti inkosi, " U ya 'kufika 
nazo, i Alatshwe inkomo leyo, a 
gabe ngayo. Loku ka lali pansi, 
u ya 'ulala." Za fika engud/deni, 
z' ema. Ya ti inkosi, " A zi ha- 
mbe." Ba ti, " Z' ala nomfana, zi 


63 "What are you ? " — An enquiry 
to learn what his power really is. TI 
reply, " I am nothing," is striking. 

69 This idiom is worth noting ; it 
The country was destroyed by famine. 1 
The house is light by the stars, that is, 


Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

They stood still. They said, 
" Speak. You are stabbed." He 
said, " You cannot stab me." They 
said, " What are you ? " 68 He re- 
plied, " I am nothing." They 
said, " What do you boast of? Do 
you so speak because you would 
not let us take the chief's cattle, 
until we lost a whole month 
through you?" He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Ubo ngopa-kamagad hlela, 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

So they went. 

boasts of what he will do. 

One thief was sent forward. 
When he came to the chief, he 
said, "We have lifted some cattle, 
they are under magical power ; 
there is a man that lies on an ox, 
on Ubongopa-kamagadhlela." The 
chief told him to return and tell 
them to hasten with the cattle to 
him. They travelled rapidly ; they 
appeared on a ridge ; the thief 
said, " There they are ; there is a 
boy on a white ox ; he has magical 
power ; he tells them to halt, and 
they halt." The chief said, "When 
he comes, the ox, by which he 
practises his magic, shall be killed. 
And although he does not rest on 
the ground, he shall be made to 
rest on it." They came to the 
open space in front of the village, 
and halted. The chief told them 
to go on. The men replied, " The 
boy will not permit them; they 

expressive of contempt. They have yet 
Le dry irony of conscious power in the 

s the same as, " Izwe la fa indftlala," 
)r below, ' ' IndMu i kanya izinkanyezi, " 
starlight enters by holes in the roof. 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


227 


vnma okwake." Ya ti, " Ka ku- 
lume." Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

Bongopa- kamagad Alela, 

U bo liamba ; ku ya hanjwa ; 

U bo liamba ; ku ya hanjwa ; 
Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 1 " 

"VYa hamba ke, za liamba. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagaclAlela, 

U bo ngena ; ku ya ngenwa ; 

U bo ngena ; ku ya ngenwa \ 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Wa ngena ke esibayeni. 

The boy descends , 

Ba ti, "Ye/dika, mfana." Wa 
ti, " Ka ng' eAli, a ngi nyateli 
pansi, ngi lala enkonieni. Lo nga 
zalwa a ngi w azi umAlabati." Ya 
ti inkosi, " Ye Alika." Wa ti, "A 
ng' azi." Ya ti, "Kuluma, mfa- 
na." Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

A ng' eAle ; ku y' eAlwa ; 

A ng' eAle ; ku y' eAlwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

W' eAla pansi. Ba ti, " Hamba, 
u ye endAlini." Wa ti, "A ng' a- 
zi endAlini." Ba ti, " Hamba, u 
ye endAlini." Wati, "A ngi yi." 
Ba ti, " U nani ? " Ba mu sa 
endAlini yomuntu ofileyo, e se ya 


move at his word." He com- 
manded him to speak. He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadlilela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

Ubongopa went on, and the cattle 
too went on. He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Go into the pen now; it is time 
for going in ; 

Go into the pen now ; it is time 
for going in ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe?" 

So he went into the pen. 

and enters a liut. 

They said, " Come down, boy." 
He replied, "I do not get off ; I 
do not walk on the ground ; I 
remain on the ox ; from the time 
of my birth I have never felt the 
ground." The chief said, " Come 
down." He said, " I cannot." He 
said, " Speak, boy." He said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Let me get down ; it is time for 
getting down ; 

Let me get down ; it is time for 
getting down ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe % " 

He got down. They told him to 
go into the house. He said, " I 
cannot live in a house." They 
said, " Go into the house." He 
said, "I do not go." They said, 
" What is the matter with you % " 
They took him to the house of a 
man who was dead, which was 


228 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


gid/dika, e s' i kanya izinkanyezi. 
Ba ti, " Ngena." Wa ngena 
end/dini. Wa piwa ukud/da. 
Yv 7 a ti, "A ngi kw azi ukud/da 
kwapansi." Ba ti, " U ini ? " 
Kw' ernuka ukud/da. 


already falling into ruins, and the 
stars could be seen through its 
roof. They told him to go in. 
He went into the house. They 
gave him food. He said, "I do 
not understand food which is 
eaten on the ground." They said, 
" What are you? " The food was 
taken away. 


He raises a storm , which affects every one but himself. 


Wa pimisa amate ; a bila, a ti, 
" Nkosi, wena wapakati, wen' um- 
nyama, o ngangezintaba." A 
gcwala ind/du. La duma izuiu, la 
na kakulu ; kwa neta izind/du 
zonke nezi nga neti. Ba memeza 
abantu, ba ti, " Inkosi i ya neta." 
Ya ti inkosi, "Umfana u se file, 
loku ku nje kimina, lo ngi nga 
w azi amatonsi." Ya ti, " Umfana, 
loku e /dezi pand/de, ka se ko ; u 
se file." La sa izuiu. Kwa tu- 
nywa abantu, kwa tiwa, " A ba ye 
'kubheka kuye." Ba fika, kw o- 
mile. Ba ti, " Ku ngani ukuba 
kw ome kumfana % Ng' umfana o 
nemilingo. Sa vela, sa bona.. In- 
komo a i /datshwe yake, si bone 
ukuba ku ya 'kwenzeka lena imi- 
kuba e si i bonayo namu/da." 


He spat ; the spittle boiled up 
and said, " Chief, thou child of the 
greatest , 70 thou mysterious 71 one 
who art as big as the mountains." 
It filled the house. It thundered 
and rained exceedingly ; all the 
houses leaked, even those which 
had never leaked before. The 
people shouted, saying, " The chief 
is wet." The chief said, "The 
boy is already dead, since I am in 
this state, for I never saw a drop 
enter my house before." He said, 
" Since the boy was sitting outside, 
he no longer lives; he is dead." 
The heaven cleared. Some men 
were sent to go and see after him. 
When they arrived at his house, it 
was dry. They said, " How is it 
that it is dry in the boy's house % 
He is a boy possessed of magical 
powers. We saw that at the first. 
Let his ox be killed, that we may 
see if these tricks will then be 
done which we now witness ." 72 


They hill Ubongopa , but injure themselves. 


Kwa bizwa abantu bonke, kwa 
tatwa umkonto, kwa ngena 11a wo 
esibayeni ; kwa bizwa umfana, ba 
ti, "Inkoino a i /datshwe." Wa 
ti, " Ngi ya 'kufa na?a ku file lena 


All the people were summoned. 
A man took an assagai and entered 
the cattle-pen. The boy was call- 
ed ; they said to him, " Let the ox 
be killed." He replied, "I shall 
die if that ox dies." They said, 


70 Wena wapakati , lit. , child or man of the centre or innermost circle. 

71 Umnyama, Dark one, that is, one on whom we cannot look, fearful one, 
mysterious one. 

72 Compare this Ox with the Dun Bull in " Katie Woodencloak." ( Dasent . 
Popular Tales from the Norse , p. 41 1.) And with the Horse Dapplegrim 
( Dasent , p. 313 ), or the Horse Grimsbork. (Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p. 253 .) 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


229 


inkomo." Ba ti, "TJ ini?" La 
nikwa elinye isela umkonto, la i 
/daba ngomkonto, wa ngena ese- 
leni. Ba ti, " Kuluma, mfana, 
inkomo i fe." Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo fana ; ku ya fiwa ; 

TJ bo fana ; ku ya fiwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe h " 

Wa ngena umkonto kubongopa. 
Wa wa pansi. Kwa tatwa izi- 
ngindi zoku m /dinza. Way ata 
umuntu ; wa zi/daba yena. Ba ti, 

" Kuluma, mfana, Sa ku gwaza." 
Wa kuluma, wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo /dinzwa ; ku ya /dinzwa ; 

U bo /dinzwa ; ku ya /dinzwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Ba i /dinza ; ya pela. 

They go to bathe , to wash away 

A ti amadoda, " Basa ni umlilo 
kakulu." A ti amasela, " Ak' i 
yekwe ukwosiwa. Ke ku gezwe 
imizimba, ku kutshwe um/dola. 
Lena inkomo i nemilingo ; zonke 
izenzo ezi kuyona ezinye." Kwa 
pela, ba i li^uma itshoba ; wa zi- 
n q uma umuntu. Ba ti, " Kuluma, 
mfana. Sa ku gwaza." Wa ti, 


" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo n^unywa ; ku ya ngu- 
nywa ; 

TJ bo ngunywa ; ku ya ngu- 
ny wa ; 


" What are you V They gave one 
of the thieves the assagai ; he 
stabbed at the ox with the assagai ; 
but it pierced the thief. They 
said, " Speak, boy, that the ox 
may die." He said, 

" TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Die now ; it is time to die ; 

Die now ; it is time to die ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 1 " 

The assagai pierced TJbongopa ; he 
fell down. They took knives to 
skin him. A man divided the 
skin ; he cut himself. They said, 
" Speak, boy. You are as good as 
stabbed." He said, 

" TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Be skinned now ; it is time to 
be skinned ; 

Be skinned now ; it is time to 
be skinned ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe h " 

They accomplished the skinning.. 

the evil influence of TJbongopa . 

The men said, "Light a large 
fire." The thieves said, " Let us 
just omit for a time to roast the 
ox ; let us first wash our bodies tO' 
get rid of the bad omen. This 
bullock had magical properties ; all 
matters connected with it differ 
from those of other cattle. At 
last they cut off the end of the 
tail ; a man cut himself. They 
said, "Speak, boy. You are as 
good as stabbed." He said, 

" TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
TJbongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Let your tail be cut off ; it is 
time to have it cut off ; 

Let your tail be cut off; it is 
time to have it cut off ; 


230 


IZIKGANEKWANE. 


Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 1 " 

Ba tabata izimbiza zobtlbende, 
ba kelela, ba tela ezimbizeni ; ya 
Alakazwa izito ; ya panyekwa esi- 
bayeni ; ba sika abafana, ba zibe- 
kela eyabo, Inkosi ya biz' abantu, 
ya ti, " Hamba ni, ni ye 'kugeza, 
ancle ni buye, ni i d/de. " Ba 

bamba abantu bonke. 


Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 1 " 

They took the vessels for the 
blood, they dipped out from the 
carcase, and poured it into the 
vessels ; they cut off the limbs, 
and hung up the bullock in the 
cattle kraal ; the boys cut off 
slices, and went and set them aside 
for themselves. The chief called 
the people, and said, " Go and 
bathe, and eat it after you come 
back." All the people went. 


The boy brings Ubongopa to life again , and leaves the village. 


Wa sala umfana, wa tabata isi- 
kumba, wa s' end/dala, wa beka 
in/doko ; wa tabata izimbambo, wa 
zi beka; wa tabata olunye u/da- 
ngoti, wa lu beka ; wa tabata um- 
kono, wa u beka endaweni yawo ; 
wa tabata umlenze, wa u beka 
endaweni yawo ; wa tabata ama- 
tumbu, wa wa beka endaweni 
yawo ; wa tabata isibindi, wa si 
beka endaweni yaso ; wa tabata 
ipapu, wa li beka endaweni yalo ; 
wa beka ulusu, wa wola umswani, 
wa u tela eluswini ; wa tabata 
itshoba, wa li beka endaweni yalo ; 
wa tabata ububende, wa bu tela 
endaweni yabo ; w' embesa ngesi- 
kumba, wa ti, 


" Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo vuka ; ku ya vukwa ; 

U bo vuka ; ku ya vukwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe % " 

Wa buya umpefumulo wayo, wa 
ngena kuyona, ya bheka. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo ma ; ku f emiwa ; 


When they were gone, the boy 
took the skin, and spread it on the 
ground ; he placed the head on it, 
he took the ribs and put them in 
their place ; he took one side, and 
placed it in its place ; he took a 
shoulder, and put it in its place ; 
he took a leg, and put it in its 
place ; he Took the intestines, and 
put them in their place ; he took 
the liver, and put it in its place ; 
he took the lungs, and put them in 
their place ; he placed the paunch 
in its place ; he took the contents 
of the paunch, and returned them 
to their place ; he took the tail, 
and put it in its place ; he took 
the blood, and poured it into its 
place ; he wrapped all up with the 
skin, and said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Arise now ; it is time to arise ; 
Arise now ; it is time- to arise ; 
Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 'l " 

His breath came back again and 
entered into him ; he looked up. 
The boy said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Stand up now ; it is time to stand ; 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


231 


U bo ma j ku y' emiwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 1 " 

W' ema ke. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Boiigopa-kamagadAlela, 

A ngi kwele ; ku ya kwelwa ; 

A ngi kwele ; ku ya kwelwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe 1 " 

Wa kwela pezu kwayo. Wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

Bon gopa-kamagad/ilela, 

U bo hamba ; ku ya hanjwa ; 

U bo hamba : ku ya hanjwa ; 
Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe h " 

Wa hamba Ubongopa. Za hamba 
izind/du, namasimu, nesibaya, zo- 
nke izinto zalowo 'muzi ! 


Stand up now ; it is time to 
stand ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

So he stood up. 73 The boy said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Let me mount; it is time to 
mount ; 

Let me mount; it is time to 
mount ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 1 " 

He mounted the ox, and said, 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Go now ; it is time to go ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe 1 " 

Ubongopa set out. And the 
houses and gardens, and cattle 
pen, and all the things of that 
village, followed him ! 


They 'pursue him. 


Ba kupuka abantu emfuleni, wa 
ti omunye, " Bantu, bona ni um- 
/ilola. Izwe li ya hamba lonke." 


The men went up from the 
river. One exclaimed, " See, ye 
men, a prodigy ! The whole 
country is going ! " The chief 


73 Thor in one of his journeys, accompanied by Loki, rode in a car drawn 
by two he-goats. At night they put up at a peasant's cottage ; Thor killed his 
goats, flayed them, and boiled the flesh for the evening repast of himself and 
the peasant's family. The bones were all placed in the spread-out skins. At 
dawn of day Thor ''took his mallet Mjolnir, and, lifting it up, consecrated the 
goats' skins, which he had no sooner done, than the two goats re-assumed their 
wonted form." (Mallet. Op. cit., p. 436.^ "In the palace of Odin" the 
heroes feed on the flesh of the boar Saihrimnir, " which is served up every day 
at table, and every day it is renewed again entire." (Id., p. 105 . ) See also 
" The Sharp Grey Sheep," which, when it was about to be killed for its kind- 
ness to the princess, said to her, " They are going to kill me, but steal thou my 
skin, and gather my bones and roll them in my skin, and I will come alive 
again, and I will come to you again." ( Campbell. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 287 .J 
— Comp, also " Katie Woodencloak." (Dasent. Op. cit., p. 420 . ) 

We may also compare the story of Ananzi, who having eaten a 
baboon, " the bits joined themselves together in his stomach, and began to pull 
him about so much that he had no rest, and was obliged to go to a doctor." The 
doctor tempted the baboon to quit his victim by holding a banana to Ananzi's 
mouth. ( Dasent. Popular Tales from the Norse, p. 502 . ) Compare the 
howling of the dog in the belly of Toi. (Grey. Op. cit., p. 124.,) 


F F 


232 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ya mema inkosi isizwe sonke, ya 
ti, " Mu landele ni umfana, a bu- 
lawe." Wa hamba kakulu ; wa 
b' ezwa ukuba se be seduze, wa ti, 

" Bongopa-kamagadZdela, 
Bongopa-kamagadAlela, 

A u me ; ku y' emiwa ; 

A u me ; ku y' emiwa ; 

Ku boni uba si ya bulawa 
Amasela awezizwe ? " 

Z' ema inkomo. Ba m memeza, 
ba ti, " Mana kona lapo, si ku 
bulale. Kade w r enza imikuba." 
Ba ti, " Ye/da, si ku bulale." 
W' eAlela pansi. Ba ti, " Suka 
enkomeni, imikonto i nga zi 7dabi." 
Ba i ponsa imikonto, a ya ze ya 
ya kuye, ya Alaba pansi. Wa ba 
Tdeka, e ti, " Ini, ni 'madoda, ni 
baningi, imikonto i nga ze ya fika 
kumi, i Zdabe pansi na 1 " La ba 
7deka elinye ibuto, la ti, " Ini 
ukuba n' a7dulwe umfana, ni lo ni 
7dabe pansi, imikonto i nga ze ya 
fika kuyena na 1 " Ba tela abanye. 
Wa ti, "Ngi pe nini narni um- 
konto, ngi gwaze kini." B' ala, 
ba ti, "A si k' a7duleki." Ba m 
ponsa ngemikonto ; ya 7daba pa- 
nsi. Ba i kcotsha, ba i ponsa 
kuye ; a ya 7daba kuye. Ba ti, 
" S' a7dulekile : a kw enze nawe." 


summoned the whole tribe, and 
said, " Follow the boy, and let him 
be killed." He went rapidly ; but 
when he heard that they were 
near him, he said, 

" TTbongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Stand still now ; it is the time 
for standing still ; 

Stand still now ; it is the time 
for standing still ; 

Do you not see we are killed 
By thieves of another tribe ? " 

The cattle stood still. They 
shouted to him, saying, " Stand 
still in that very place, that we 
may kill you. For a long time 
you have practised magic." They 
said, " Come down, that we may 
kill you." He descended to the 
ground. They told him to stand 
apart from the cattle, that the 
assagais might not pierce them. 
They hurled their assagais ; they 
did not reach him, but struck 
the ground. 74 He jeered them, 
saying, " Why what is this, you 
being men and so many too, the 
assagais do not reach me, but strike 
the ground 1 " One of the sol- 
diers, laughing at them, said, 
" Why are you worsted by a boy, 
for the assagais strike the ground, 
and do not reach him ? " Some 
gave in. He said, " Give me too 
an assagai, that I may make a stab 
at you." They refused, and said, 
"We are not yet worsted." They 
hurled their assagais at him ; they 
struck the ground. They picked 
them up, and hurled them at him ; 
they did not strike him. They 
said, "We are worsted : do you 
try also." 


74 Compare this with the contest of Ulysses with the suitors of Penelope : 
' ' Then all at once their mingled lances threw 
And thirsty all of one man's blood they flew ; 

In vain ! Minerva turned them with her breath, 

And scatter'd short, or wide, the points of death ! 

With deaden'd sound one on the threshold falls, 

One strikes the gate, one rings against the walls : 

The storm pass'd innocent." (Pope's Odyssey , b. xxii. 1. 280 . ) 


UBOXGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


233 


The boy hills the chief, 

Ba m nika imikonto eminingi ; 
wa y ala, wa kcela omunye. Ba m 
nika wa ba mimye. Wa ti, " Ngi 
kcibe kiiiina ? " Ba Aleka. Wa 
pimisela amate pansi, a bila, a ti, 
" Nkosi, bayeti, wena o ngange- 
zintaba." Wa ti, " Ngi Alabe 
mina kinina ? " Ba /deka, ba ti, 
" Yenza, si bone." Wa u ponsa 
enkosini yakona. Ba fa bonke. 


lie restores the 

Wa tabata uti lwomkonto, wa 
tshaya enkosini yakona ; ya vnka, 
ba vnka bonke. Ba m memeza, 
ba ti, " Mana kona lapo, si ku 
gwaze." Wa ba Aleka, wa ti, 
" Kade ni pi ? " Ba ti, "Si ya 
fika." Wa ti, "Beni file." Ba 
pika, ba ti, " Li gcine ilanga." Ba 
i ponsa imikonto eminingi kuye ; 
ya Alaba pansi. Ba ponsa abanye 
imikonto eminingi ; ya Alaba pa- 
nsi. Ba i kcotsha, ba i ponsa emi- 
ningi ; ya Alaba pansi. A ba Aleka 
amadoda, a ti, " Nika ni tina, si m 
bulale." A i ponsa imikonto emi- 
ningi ; ya Alaba pansi. A i kco- 
tsha amadoda. 


The chief tries in 

Ya ti inkosi, " Gwed/dela ni 
mina, ngi m gwaze." Ya u ponsa 
inkosi umkonto ; w' ema pansi. 
Ya ti, " Ng' aAlulekile, mfana. 
Ake w enze, si bone." Wa ti, 
" Ngi pe ni umkonto, ngi Alabe 
nami." Ba m nika imikonto emi- 

75 Lit., End the sun, — that is, take 
day you have to live. 


and all his people die. 

They offered him many assagais ; 
he refused them, and asked for one 
only. They gave him one. He 
said, " May I fling at you ? " They 
laughed. He spat on the ground ; 
the spittle fizzed, it said, " Chief, 
all hail, thou who art as big as the 
mountains." He said, " May I 
stab you?" They laughed and 
said, " Do so, that we may see." 
He hurled the assagai at their 
chief. They all fell down dead. 

n to life again. 

He took the haft of the assagai 
and smote their chief ; he arose, 
and they all arose with him. They 
shouted to him, saying, "Stand 
where you are, that we may stab 
you." He laughed at them, and 
said, "Where have you already 
been ? " They said, "We are just 
come." He said, " You were all 
dead." They said, " Bid the sun 
farewell ." 76 Others hurled many 
assagais at him; they struck the 
ground. They picked them up, 
and again hurled many of them at 
him ; they struck the ground. 
The men laughed at them, and 
said, " Give us the assagais, that 
we may kill him." They hurled 
many assagais ; they struck the 
ground. The men picked them up. 

min to kill the boy. 

The chief said, " Get out of the 
way for me, that I may stab him." 
The chief hurled an assagai ; it 
stuck in the ground. He said, " I 
am conquered, boy. Do you just 
tiy, that we may see." He said, 
" Give me an assagai, that I too 
may hurl it." They offered him 

a last view of the sun, — this is the last 


234 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ningi. Wa y ala, wa ti, "Ngi 
tanda munye." Ba m nika. Wa 
pimisela am ate pansi ; a ti, " Nko- 
si, bayeti, wen' umnyama, wena 
wapakati." Wa ti, " Ngi Alabe 
kinina ? " Ba m Aleka, ba ti, 
" Yenza, si bone." Wa u ponsa 
nmkonto, wa Alaba enkosini ya- 
kona. Ya fa, nabo bonke abantu. 


many assagais. He refused them, 
and said, " I wish for one." They 
gave him one. He spat on the 
ground ; the spittle said, " Chief, 
all hail ! thou mysterious one, thou 
child of the greatest." He said, 
" May I stab you V They laugh- 
ed and said, " Do it, that we may 
see." He hurled the assagai ; he 
struck their chief. He died, to- 
gether with all his people. 


He brings the people to life again , and leaves the chief dead. 


Wa tabata umkonto, wa tshaya 
kubantu. Ba vuka abantu, ya 
sala inkosi. Ba ti, " Se si ng' aba- 
ko. Se si za 'uhamba nawe." 


He took an assagai and smote 
the people. The people arose, the 
chief remained still dead. They 
said, "We are now your people. 
We will now go with you ." 76 


They are attached on their journey by a/nother tribe. 


Ba dAlula kwesiny' isizwe. Ba 
Alaba umkosi, ba ti, " Bulala ni. 
Natiku 'muntu 'emuka nabantu." 
Ya ba biza inkosi, ya ti, "A ba 
bulawe." Ba ya kubo, ba ti, 
"YeAlika." Wa ti, "Anginya- 
teli pansi." A ba tshela amasela, 


They passed through another 
tribe. The people gave an alarm, 
and shouted, " Go and kill. There 
is a man going away with people." 
The chief called them, and ordered 
them to be killed. They went to 
them. They told him to come 
down from the ox. He replied, 
" I do not walk on the ground." 
The thieves told them, saying, 


76 We would refer the reader to the following similar instances : — 

In Campbell's Highland Tales we read the account of the Bed Knight, who 
meets his foster brethren, who were "holding battle against MacDorcha Mac- 
Doilleir, and a hundred of his people ; and every one they killed on one day 
was alive again on the morrow." This was effected by a "great toothy carlin," 
who had " a tooth that was larger than a staff on her fist." " She put her fin- 
ger in their mouths, and brought them to life." (Vol. II., p. 446 — 448 . ) In 
the tale of "The Widow and her Daughters," when the two eldest had been 
beheaded, the youngest " drew over them the magic club," and they " became 
lively and whole as they were before." (Id. Vol. II., p. 269 . ) 

See Grimm's Home Stories, "The Three Magical Leaves," p. 73. — " The 
Widow's Son " Jain is killed three times and brought to life again. ( Campbell. 
Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 295.,) 

Bata by repeating a * ' potent incantation " restores sixty of his warriors 
which had been slain to life again. ( Grey. Op. cit., p. 116.,) 

A spirit in the form of a flag found the place where Hatupatu was buried, 
and raised him to life again by enchantments. ( Id., p. 185.,) 

When the prince who had been transformed into a cat was disenchanted by 
having his head cut off, a large heap of bones also received life, and became a 
large body of courtiers, knights, and pages. ( Thorpe's Yule-tide Stories, p. 
75.) 

The youth raises the father of the princess and her other relations by 
touching each of them with the hilt of the magical sword. (Id., p. 167.,) 


UBONGOPA-KAMAGADHLELA. 


235 


a ti, " Wa si bulala nati." Ba ti, 
" Tina, ka z' 'u s' aAlula." Ba m 
ponsa imikonto ; ya Alaba pansi. 
Ba i wola, ba i ponsa ; ya Alaba 
pansi. La ba Aleka elinye ibuto, 
la ti, " GwedAlela ni tina, si Alabe." 
Ba i ponsa imikonto ; ya Alaba 
pansi. Ba i wola. Ya ti inkosi, 
" Ngi nike ni miiia, ngi m bulale." 
Ba ti abantu, " Si ya 'u ku babaza 
u m bulele." Ya ti, " Mina ngi 
namandAla kakulu." Ya ponsa, 
y' aAluleka. 


" He killed us." They said, " But 
us he will not conquer." They 
hurled assagais at him ; they struck 
the ground. One of the soldiers 
laughed at them, and said, " Make 
way for us, that we may stab 
him." They hurled their assagais ; 
they struck the ground. They 
collected them. The chief said, 
" Hand them to me, that I may 
kill him." The people said, "We 
will praise you when you have 
killed him." He said, " I am very 
strong." He hurled the assagais ; 
he was unable to kill him. 


They try in vain to kill the hoy ; he kills the chief, and leads off the 

people. 


Ya ti, " Yenza, mfana, ngi bo- 
ne." Wa ti, "Ngi pe ni um- 
konto." Wa pimisa amate ; a 
Alala pansi, a bila, a ti, " Bayeti, 
nkosi, wena wapakati." Ba m 
nika imikonto ; wa y ala ; wa tata 
wa ba munye ; wa ti, " Ngi Alabe 
kinina h " Wa u ponsa enkosini 
yakona. Ba fa bonke. Wa u 
tata umkonto, wa tshaya enkosini 
yakona ; ya vuka ; ba vuka bonke. 

Wa ti, " Ni sa buyela ini ki- 
mina V Ba ti, " Tina, si sa pinda 
kuwe." Ba i ponsa imikonto, ya 
Alaba pansi. Ba i wola, ba i 
ponsa, imikonto ya Alaba pansi. 
Wa kcela umkonto, wa ti, " N' a- 
/dulekile 1 ?" Bati, "Yebo." Bam 
nika umkonto wa ba munye. Wa 
Alaba enkosini, ba fa bonke. Wa 
tabata umkonto, wa tshaya ku- 
muntu munye ; ba vuka bonke ; 
ya sala inkosi i file. Ba ti, " Se 
si ng' abako." 


He said, " Do you try, boy, that 
I may see." He said, " Give me 
an assagai." He spat ; the spittle 
remained on the ground and fizzed, 
and said, " Hail, chief, thou child 
of the greatest." They gave him 
assagais ; he refused them, and 
took but one ; he said, " May I 
hurl at you % " He threw the 
assagai at their chief. They all 
died. He took the assagai, and 
smote their chief; he arose, and 
all rose with him. 

He said, " Will you yet again 
attack me % " They said, " For 
our part, we will still make another 
trial on you." They hurled the 
assagais ; they struck the ground. 
They collected them, and threw 1 
them ; they struck the ground. 
He asked for an assagai, and said, 
" Are you conquered ? " They 
said, "We are." They gave him 
an assagai : he stabbed the chief ; 
they all died. He took the assagai 
and struck one man ; they all 
arose ; the chief remained dead. 
They said, "We are now your 
people." 


236 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


He sends messengers to his father. 


Wa tuma abantu, wa ti, A ba 
ye kuyise, ba ti, " Ku y' eza XJbo- 
ngopa-kamagad/dela." Wa kala 
nyise, wa ti, " Ni m bone pi na? " 
Ba ti, " U ba kgedile abantu." 
Ba ti, " U kguba izinkomo ezi- 
ningi." Wa tuma uyise abantu, 
wa ti, a ba buyele einuva. Ba 
fika, ba m tsbela, ba ti, " Uyi/do 
u pikile." Kwa kcatshunywa izin- 
komo, za bekwa inkomo e nom- 
bala ; wa ti, kona uyise e ya 'ku m 
bona ngayo yakona lapo ekaya. 


He sent some men to bis father 
to tell him that Ubongopa-kama- 
gadhlela was coming. His father 
cried, saying, " Where did you see 
him % " They said, " He has killed 
many people' and is coming with 
many cattle." His father told the 
men to go back again. On their 
arrival they told him his father 
refused to believe them. A few 
cattle were selected, and one bul- 
lock of a peculiar colour was placed 
among them. For he said his 
father would see that he was still 
living by that bullock which be- 
longed to his village. 


The nation prepares to receive him with joy. 


Uyise wa memezela isizwe, wa 
ti, " A ku gay we ukud/da." Wa 
ti, " Inkosi i ya buya." Ba fika 
abantu, ba ti, " Kg' amanga." Wa 
ti, " Hamba ni, ni ze 'ku i bona 
inkomo yalapa ekaya." Ba i bona 
abantu, ba ti, " Amak^iniso." Ba 
ti, " A ku funwe intombi, a fike 
se i Alezi." Kwa funwa intombi 
kabungani 77 kamakulukulu. 


His father summoned the nation, 
and commanded them to make 
beer. He said, " The chief is 
coming back." The people said it 
could not be true. He said, " Go 
and look at the bullock belonging 
to our village, which has come 
back." The people saw it, and 
said, " It is the truth." They 
said, " Let a damsel be found, that 
on his arrival he may find her 
already here." They sought for a 
daughter of Ubungani, the son of 
Umakulukulu. 


lie returns to his home, and refuses to change his mode of life. 


Ba hamba, ba vela okalweni, ba 
ti, " UyiAlo u ti, ' Tshetsha.' " Ba 
hamba abantu nezinkomo kakulu. 
Ba vela okalweni ngasekaya. 
Ba m beka pambili Ubongopa- 
kamagadAlela. Za hamba kakulu, 
za fika esangweni. Ba puma aba- 
ntu, ba buka. Wa jabula uyise 
nonina. Wa ti, 


Those who were sent by his 
father reached the top of a hill, 
and said, " Your father tells you 
to make haste." The men and the 
cattle went rapidly. They ap- 
peared on a hill near their home. 
They placed Ubongopa-kamaga- 
dhlela in front : the cattle went 
rapidly, and reached the gateway. 
The people went out to see. His 
father and mother rejoiced. He 
said, 


77 Ubungi , the grandfather of Ulangalibalele. 


/ 


UMDHLUBU 

" Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 
Bongopa-kamagad/dela, 

U bo ngena ; kn ya ngenwa ; 

XJ bo ngena ; ku ya ngenwa." 

Za ngena esibayeni. 

Kwa gaulwa omunye nmuzi. 
Wa ti, " Intombi a ngi i tandi, 
ngoknba i hamba pansi." Y' e- 
muka intombi. Wa ti, " Ngo za 
ngi fe ngi /dezi pezulu." Kwa 
tiwa ke, " Hlala kona lapo pezulu." 

W' alusa izinkomo zakubo. 
W' enza leyo 'mikuba a e y enza 
ekukgaleni. 

Umatshotsha, (Umkamafuta.) 


NESELESELE. 237 

" Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 
Ubongopa-kamagadhlela, 

Go in now ; it is time to go in ; 
Go in now ; it is time to go in." 

The cattle entered the enclosure. 

Another village was built. He 
said, "I do not love the damsel, 
because she goes on the ground." 
The damsel departed. He said, 
" I will live on the back of Ubo- 
ngopa-kamagadhlela till my death." 
So they said, " Stay then there on 
his back." 

He herded the cattle of his 
people. And continued to practise 
the enchantments which he prac- 
tised from his childhood. 


UMDHLUBU 78 NESELESELE. 

(UMDHLUBU AND THE FROG.) 


The queen is hated by the other wives of the king. 


Kw' esukela, inkosi ya zeka in- 
tombi yenye inkosi ; ya i tanda 
kakulu ; abafazi bayo ba dabuka 
ngoku i tanda kwayo. Y' ernita, 
ya zala umntwana wentombi ; 
uyise wa m tanda kakulu. Wa 
kula ; wa ti uma e isibakasa, aba- 
fazi b' enza ikcebo, ba ti, " Lok' u- 
yise e nge ko, a si hambe si yoku- 
sika imizi." Ba tshela abantwana 


Once on a time, a king married 
the daughter of another king ; he 
loved her very much ; his wives 
were troubled on account of his 
love for her. She became preg- 
nant, and gave birth to a girl : the 
father loved her exceedingly. The 
child grew, and when she was a 
fine handsome child, the other 
wives formed a plot against her ; 
they said, " Since her father is not 
at home, let us go and cut fibre ." 79 
They told the children not to agree 


78 Umdhlubu, Garden-of -ground-nuts. 

79 The fibre which is called imizi is derived from a kind of rush ( umhlahle ). 
It is used for binding up bundles, and for making the eating-mat. The natives 
obtain fibre ( itzi ) of a longer kind from the bark of several trees ; uscmdo and 
umtombe, the barks of which are red ; ubazi and umsasane, the barks of which 
are white. These barks are moistened and beaten, and so used ; or they are 
twisted into cord. 


238 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ukuti, " Ni nga vumi uku m ta- 
bata umntwana." Unina wa biza 
intombazana e sala naye. Y' ala' 
uku m tabata umntwana. Wa m 
beleta unina, wa liamba naye. 


to carry the child. The mother 
called the little girl which nursed 
her child. She refused to carry 
her. The mother put her on her 
back, and went with her. 


The queen forgets her child. 


Ba sika imizi, ba hamba njalo. 
Kwa ti kwesinye isi/dambo ba 
Zdala pansi, ba bema ugwai. Unina 
wa bopa isitungu semizi, wa nika 
umntwana, wa dAlala ngaso. B' e- 
suka, ba sika imizi. Ba hamba 
njalo. Wa ko/dwa umntanake 
unina. Ba hamba njalo be sika ; 
ba bopa, ba twala, ba goduka. 


They cut fibre, and went on 
continually. It came to pass in 
one of the valleys 80 they sat down 
and took snuff. The mother made 
a bundle of fibre, and gave it to 
the child : the child played with 
it. They set out again and cut 
fibre. They went on continually. 
The mother forgot the child. They 
went on continually cutting fibre ; 
they tied it up into bundles, and 
carried it home. 


She seeks in vain for the lost child. 


Ba fika ekaya, ba biza abaza- 
nyana babantwana ; ba fika bonke. 
Kodwa owake wa fika-ze. Wa 
buza, wa ti, "U pi owami um- 
ntwana ? " Ba ti, " U hambe 
naye." Wa dabuka ; wa kala, wa 
gijima, wa ya 'kufuna. Ka m 
tola ; wa buya. 


When they came home, they 
called the children's nurses : they 
all came. But her's came without 
the child. She asked, " Where is 
my child ] " They said, " You 
took her with you." She was 
troubled, and cried, and ran to 
find her. She did not find her, 
and came back. 


The 'polygamic wives rejoice. 


Kwa kalwa kakulu. Sa tsho 
isitembu, sa ti, " Ku njani ke 
manje na? Si 1' apulile igugu 
likayise. Intandokazi i jambisi- 
siwe." 


There was a great lamentation. 
The polygamic wives said, "How 
is it now then 1 We have destroy- 
ed the father's darling. The pet 
wife is utterly confounded." 


A message is despatched to the king. 


Kwa ya 'kubikelwa uyise ; kwa 
tiwa, " Nkosi, umntanako u la/de- 
kile, si yokusika imizi." Wa Alu- 
peka kakulu uyise. 


A messenger was sent to tell 
the father ; it was said, " King, 
your child has been lost, whilst we 
were cutting fibre." The father 
was greatly troubled. 


80 Isihlambo, here translated valley, is a depression between two hills, 
where water runs in wet weather, or during storms. 


UMDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


239 


The child is fount 

Kwa ti kusasa isalukazi sasen- 
dAlu-nkulu sesiny' isizwe sa ya 
'kuka amanzi ; s' ezwa umntwana 
e dAlala ; s' ezwa ku ti, " Ta, ta, 
ta." Sa mangala, sa ti, " Han ! 
ku ini loku na ? " Sa nyonyoba, 
sa m funyanisa umntwana e Alezi 
e dAlala. Sa goduka, sa m shiya 
kanye nembiza yamanzi, kokubili. 
Sa biza inkosikazi yenkosi, sa ti, 
"Wozalapa." Ya puma inkosi- 
kazi endAlini. Sa ti, " Hamba, si 
hambe. I kona into emfuleni ; u 
ya 'ku i bona." Ya liamba naso. 
Ba tika. Sa ti, " Nanku umntwa- 
na." Ya ti inkosikazi, " M taba- 
te." Ya tsho ngokujabula. Sam 
tabata. Ba fika emfuleni. Ya ti, 
" M geze." Sa m geza. Ya m 
tabata inkosikazi, ya m beleta, ya 
goduka. 


She is brought up i 

Ya m ncelisa ; ngokuba yona ya 
i zele umntwana woinfana; ya m 
kulisa. Wa kula. Ba hamba 
bobabili no wake. Wa kula, wa 
intombi enkulu. Wa bekwa in- 
kosi yezintombi ; kw' enziwa uku- 
d/ila okukulu. Kwa /datshwa 
izinkomo eziningi. Ba jabula 
abantu bonke. 

The officers tell the queen' s i 

Ngemva kwaloko za ti izinduna 
knmfana, za ti, " I zeke le 'nto- 
mbi." Umfana wa mangala, wa 
ti, " Hau ! ku njani loku na ? 
Ant' udade wetu na? Sa ncela 

81 Lit., She caused her to grow, tha 

82 See Appendix (A). 


by another queen. 

In the morning an old woman 
of the royal household of an- 
other nation, went to fetch water : 
she heard the child playing ; 
she heard something saying, " Ta, 
ta, ta." She woudered, and said, 
" Ah ! what is this ? " She 
went stealthily along, and found 
the child, sitting and playing. 
She went home, and left both 
her and the water - pot. She 
called the king's chief wife, and 
said, " Come here." The queen 
went out of the house. She said, 
" Let us go ; there is something by 
the river which you will see." 
She went with the old woman. 
They arrived. She said, "Behold 
a child." The queen said, " Take 
her." She said so with joy. The 
old woman took her. They came 
to the river. The queen said, 
"Wash her." She washed her. 
The queen took her, and placed 
her on her back, and went 
home. 

ith the queevts son. 

She suckled her, for she had 
given birth to a boy ; she brought 
her up. 81 She grew. Both she and 
the queen's own child walked. 
She grew and became a great girl. 
She was appointed chief of the 
girls, 82 when a great feast was 
made. Many cattle were slaugh- 
tered, and all the people rejoiced. 

on to marry the foundling. 

After that the chief men said to 
the boy, " Marry this girl." The 
boy wondered, and said, " 0 ! 
what is the meaning of this 1 Is 
she not my sister? Did we not 
suck together at my mother's 
; is, the queen nourished her. 


240 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kanye kumame na ? " Za ti, 
" K<?a ; wa tolwa esiAlanjeni." 
W' ala, wa ti, " Kgu, udade wetu 
lo." Kwa sa futi, za ti, " Ku 
fanele u m tabate, a be umfazi 
wako." W* ala, wa Alupeka ka- 
kulu. 


breast ?" 83 They said, " No, she 
was found in a valley." He de- 
nied, and said, " No, she is my 
sister." The next morning they 
said, " It is proper you should 
take her to be your wife." He 
refused, and was greatly troubled. 


An old woman imparts to the foundling the secret of her origin. 


Kwa ti ngolunye usuku isalu- 
kazi sa tshena intombi, sa ti, " TJ 
y' azi na ? " Ya pendula ya ti, 
" Ini na ? " Sa ti, " U za 'kuze- 
kwa." Ya buza ya ti, " TJbaui 
11a ? " Sa ti, " Insizwa yakwenu." 
Ya ti, " Ilau ! kanjani na ? Anti 
uinne wetu lowo na ? " Sa ti isa- 
lukazi, " K^a ; wa tabatwa esiAla- 
njeni, wa kuliswa inkosikazi." Ya 
kala, i dabukile. 


On another occasion an old 
woman said to the girl, " Do 
you know ? " She answered, 
"What?" She said, "You are 
going to be married." She en- 
quired, " To whom ? " She said, 
" The young man of your own 
house ? " 84 She said, " 0 ! what 
is the meaning of this ? Is he not 
my brother ? " The old woman 
said, "No, you were taken from a 
valley, and brought up by the 
queen." She cried, being much 
troubled. 


The foundling's grief 


Ya tabata imbiza yamanzi, ya 
hamba, ya fika emfuleni, ya Alala 
pansi, ya kala. Ya ka 'manzi, ya 
goduka. Ya Ala! ekaya. Wa i 
pa ukudAla unina : a ya ku vuma, 
f ala. Wa pendula unina, wa ti, 
" Ini na ? " Ya ti, " K^a. Ku 
'buAlungu ikanda lami." Kwa 
Aiwa ke, ya ya 'kulala. 


She took a water-pot, and went 
to the river, and sat down and 
wept. She filled her water-pot, 
and went home. She sat down in 
the house. Her mother gave her 
food ; she did not like it, and re- 
fused. The mother asked, " What 
is it ? " She said, " Nothing." 
There is a pain in my head." So 
it was evening, and she went to 
lie down. 


She meets with a friend. 


Kwa ti kusasa ya vuka, ya ta- 
bata imbiza yamanzi, ya fika em- 
fuleni ; ya Alala pansi, ya kala. 
Ya t' i sa kala, kwa puma iselesele 


In the morning she awoke and 
took the water-pot, and went to 
the river ; she sat down and wept. 
As she was crying, there came out 


83 It is not in accordance with native custom for a young man to marry his 
foster-sister. 

84 That is, the house in which you are living, — the house in which she had 
been brought up, and to which she supposed she belonged. 


UMDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


241 


elikulu, la ti, " U kalela ni na ? " 
Ya ti, " Ngi ya /dupeka." La ti 
iselesele, " U /dutshwa ini na ? " 
Ya ti, "Ku tiwa, a ngi zekwe 
umne wetu." La ti iselesele, 
"Hamba, u tabate izinto zako 
ezin/de o zi tandayo, u zi lete 
lapa." 

She quits her adopted home , and s< 

Y' esuka, ya twala inibiza ya- 
manzi, ya fik' ekaya ; ya tata enye 
imbiza, ya tabata izinto zayo, ya zi 
faka embizeni ; intonga yetusi, no- 
mu ntsha kaben/de, neg^ila li k^o- 
ndelwe ngezindondo zetusi, nek^e- 
le, netusi, nobu/dalu bayo. Ya 
tabata lezo 'zinto, ya hamba, ya 
fika emfuleni, ya zi kipela pansi. 

La buza iselesele, la ti, " U ya 
tanda na ngi ku yise kini na ? " 
"VVa ti umntwana, " Yebo." La 
tabata izinto, la zi ginga ; la m ta- 
bata umntwana, la m ginga, la 
hamba naye. 


a great frog, and said, " Why are 
you crying 1 ? " 85 She said, " I am 
in trouble." The frog said, " What 
is troubling you?" She replied, 
"It is said that I am to become 
the wife of my brother." The 
frog said, " Go and take your 
beautiful things, which you love, 
and bring them here." 

(8 out in search of her own people. 

She arose and took the water- 
pot, and went home. She took 
another pot, and fetched her things, 
and put them in the pot ; she took 
her brass rod, and her ubentlile 
kilt, and a petticoat with a border 
of brass balls ; and her fillet, and 
her brass, and her beads. She 
took these things, and went to the 
river, and threw them out on the 
ground. 

The frog enquired, saying, " Do 
you wish me to take you to your 
own people ? " The child said, 

" Yes." The frog took her things 
and swallowed them ; he took her 
and swallowed her ¦ and set out 
with her. 


The frog meets with a string of young men , who threaten to kill him. 


La hamba la /dangana nodwe- 
ndwe lwezinsizwa ; za li bona ise- 
lesele. Ya ti e pambili, " Ake ni 
zokubona; nanti iselesele elikulu 
kakulu." Ba ti abanye, "A si li 
bulale, si li ponse ngamatshe." La 
ti iselesele, 


In the way he met with a string 
of young men : 86 they saw the 
frog. The one in front said, "Just 
come and see : here is a veiy great 
frog." The others said, " Let us 
kill him, and throw stones at him." 
The frog said, 


83 In Grimm's story of the Frog King, the princess is represented as having 
dropped her golden ball into a well, and whilst standing by its side inconsolable 
for the loss, and weeping bitterly, she hears a voice, which said, " What trou- 
bles thee, royal maiden ? thy complaints would move a stone to pity. " This 
voice she found to proceed from a frog, " which raised his thick ugly head out 
of the water." The frog in this tale was an enchanted prince ; the princess is 
the means of removing the enchantment, and becomes his wife. — When Cinder- 
lass is weeping at the well, an exceedingly large pike rises to the surface, and 
gives her assistance. ( Thorpe's Yule-tide Storks, p. 1 14 . ) 

86 The natives walk in single file. 


242 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


" Ngi iselesele nje ; a ngi yi 'ku- 
bulawa. 

Ngi yis' UmdAlubu kwelakubo 
izwe." 88 

Ba li yeka. Ba ti, " Hau ! ku 
ngani iselesele li kulume, 1' enza 
umAlola ? A si li sliiye." Ba 
d Alula ke, ba hamba ke. 


" I am but a frog ; I will not be 
killed. 87 

I am taking Umdlilubu to her 
own country." 

They left him. They said, " Hau ! 
how is it that the frog spoke, 
making a prodigy ? Let us leave 
him." They passed on, and went 
their way. 


And a string of men. 


La hamba ke neselesele. La 
buya la Alangana nodwendwe lwa- 
madoda. Y"a t' e pambili indoda, 
" O, woza ni, ni zokubona iselesele 
elikulu." Ba ti, "A si li bulale." 
La ti iselesele, 

" Ngi iselesele nje ; a ngi yi 'ku- 
bulawa. 

Ngi yis' UmdAlubu kwelakubo 
izwe." 

Ba dAlula. La hamba iselesele. 


And some boys beb 

La funyanisa abafana b' alusile ; 
ba li bona ; la bonwa okayise um- 
fana. Wa ti, " Wau ! MdAlubu 
wenkosi ! woza ni, si li bulale ise- 
lesele elikulu. Gijima ni, ni gaule 
izinkandi, si li Alabe rigazo." La 
ti iselesele, 


And so the frog too went on 
his way. Again he met with a 
string of men. The one in front 
said, " O, come and see a huge 
frog." They said, " Let us kill it." 
The frog replied, 

" I am but a frog ; I will not be 
killed. 

I am taking TJmdhlubu to her 
own country." 

They passed on, and the frog went 
on his way. 

'iging to her father. 

He fell in with some boys herd- 
ing cattle : they saw him : he was 
seen by a boy of the damsel's 
father." 89 He said, " Wau ! By 
Umdhlubu the king's child ! come 
and kill a great frog. Bun and 
cut sharp sticks, that we may 
pierce him with them." The frog 
said, 


87 "I will not be killed." — A mode of deprecating death on the ground of 
having some work in hand, the importance of which will be admitted to be too 
great to allow of the messenger being put to death. When a person sentenced 
to death, or threatened with it, says, "I will not be killed," he is at once un- 
derstood, and asked, " What i3 it ? " He explains, and if the reason is satisfac- 
tory, they answer, " Nembala" (truty,) and the sentence is remitted. — Comp. 
Jeremiah xli. 8, where Ishmael is represented as sparing ten out of the eighty 
men he had ordered to be slain, because they had " treasures in the field" as 
yet not harvested. 

88 Kwelakubo izwe , pronounced kwelakubw izwe. 

89 A boy of the damsel's father, — her half-brother. 


UMDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


243 


" Ngi iselesele nje ; a ngi yi 'ku- 
bulawa. 

Ngi yis' Umd/dubu kwelakubo 
izwe." 

Wa mangala, \va ti, " O, madoda, 
a si nga li bulali. Li banga umu- 

O O 

nyu. Li dedele ni, li d/dule." 
Ba li dedela. 


" I am but a frog ; I will not be 
killed. 

I am taking Umdhlubu to her 
own country." 

The boy wondered, and said, " 0, 
sirs, do not let us kill him. He 
calls up painful emotions. Leave 
him alone, that we may pass on." 
They left him. 


And her own brother. 


La harnba, la fika kwabanye, 
la bonwa umne wabo ; wa ti, 
"Md/dubu wenkosi! nanti iselesele 
elikulu kakulu. A si li kande 
ngaraatshe, si li bulale." La ti 
iselesele, 

" Ngi iselesele nje ; a ngi yi 'ku- 
bulawa. 

Ngi yis' Umd/dubu kwelakubo 
izwe." 

Wa ti, " O, li dedele ni. Li ku- 
luma okwesabekayo." 


The frog went on his way and 
came to others. He was seen by 
the girl's own brother : he said, 
" By Umdhlubu the king's child ! 
There is a very great frog. Let 
us beat it with stones and kill it." 
The frog said, 

" I am but a frog ; I will not be 
killed. 

I am taking Umdhlubu to her 
own country." 

He said, " 0, leave him alone. 
He speaks a fearful thing." 


He arrives at her mother's village. 


La dAlula, la fika ngasekaya, la 
ngena esi/da/deni ngenzansi kwo- 
muzi ; la m kipa nezinto zake. 
La m lungisa, la m pakgula ngom- 
pakgulo wodon^a, la m gcoba, la m 
vunulisa. 


He went on and came near her 
home : he entered a bush below 
the kraal : he placed her on the 
ground with her things. He put 
her in order : he cleansed her with 
udonga : 90 he anointed her, and 
put on her ornaments. 


She makes herself known to her mother. 


Wa hamba ke. Wa tata in to- 
nga yake yetusi, wa hamba, wa 
ngena ngesango, wa dabula pakati 
kwesibaya ; wa hamba pakati 
kwaso ; wa fika entubeni, wa pu- 


So she set out. She took her 
brass rod, and went and entered at 
the gateway, and she passed across 
the cattle enclosure : she went in 
the middle of it : she came to the 
opening, she went out, and entered 


90 Udonqa is a small bush which bears white berries ; when ripe they are 
gathered and bruised and formed into a paste ; the body is first anointed with 
fat, and then rubbed over with the paste of the aclonqa. This is one mode of 
cleansing, which is supposed more effectual than water. The natives use the 
idumbe in the same way. 


244 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ma, wa ngena endAlini yakwabo. 
Wa fika unina, wa ngena end/dini, 
wa ti, " U vela ngapi, ntombi, 
na?" Wa ti, "Ngi ya liamba 
nje." Wa t' unina, "Ngi tsliele." 
Wa ti, " K(/a, ngi bamba nje." 
Wa t' unina, " Ba ya dela abafazi 
aba nabantwana abangaka. Mina 
ngi ya Alupeka ; umntwana wami 
wa la/deka ; nga m shiya esiAla- 
njeni : wa fela kona." Wa pe- 
ndula umntwana, wa ti, " Wa m 
la/dela ni na? W' enza ngoku 
nga m tandi ? " Wa ti, " K^a ; 
nga koAliswa amakosikazi ; 'ala 
ukuba umzanyana a m tabate." 
Warn pendula, wa ti, " K^a. A 
ku ko umfazi o nga koAlwa um- 
ntanake." Wa ti, " Kga ; kw' e- 
nza ngoku nga jwayeli kwami 
ukupata umntwana ; ngokuba wa 
e sala nomzanyana." Wa ti, " E- 
lie ; w* enza ngoku nga ngi tandi." 
Wa kgala uku m bhekisisa; wa 
bona, " XJmntanami lo." 


the house of her mother. Her 
mother followed her into the 
house, and said, " Whence comest 
thou, damsel 1 " She said, " I am 
merely on a journey. " The mother 
said, " Tell me." She said, "There 
is nothing, I am merely on a jour- 
ney." The mother said, " Women 
are satisfied who have such fine 
children as you. For my part, I 
am in trouble : my child was lost : 
I left her in the valley : she died 
there." The child answered, say- 
ing, " Why did you leave her 1 
Did you do it because you did not 
love her ] " She said, " No ; the 
queens made me forget her ; 91 they 
would not allow the nurse to carry 
her." She said in answer, "Ho. 
There is no woman who can forget 
her own child." She said, " No ; 
it happened through my not being 
accustomed to carry a child ; for 
she used to remain with the nurse." 
She said, " Yes ; you did it be- 
cause you did not love me." She 
began to look very earnestly at 
her ; she saw that it was her 
child. 


Her mother rejoices. 


Wa ti ukuba a m bone wa ja- 
bula. Wa bonga ngezibongo zake 
umntwana. Wa tata ingubo yake 


When she saw her she rejoiced. 
She lauded with the laud-giving 
names of her child. 92 The mother 


91 "The queens made me forget her." — The reply of the child shows this to 
he the meaning of koYiliswa in this place. The queens had so managed by giving 
her an unusual duty, and by beguiling her, to take away her attention from the 
child, that she was made to forget her. 

92 As braves receive laud-giving names from their chiefs, which express 

their noble actions, so a child which is much beloved by its parents, or which is 
remarkable for its actions and character, has praise-giving names invented for 
it. There is a youth in this neighbourhood named Untiye, a child of Umuka, 
who received the following praise-giving names from his grandfather — Unganu- 
nameva, "The-thorny-unganu." The unganu is a valuable tree in the native 
estimation, being a fruit-bearing tree, and used for carving vessels. But it has 
no thorns. The name therefore implies that he has qualities great and good 
like the unganu ; but besides those he has other qualities which resemble 
thorns, and which occasion trouble. Another name, 1 hhoboshi-eli-vimbe-esa- 
ngweni-kwapungula ; — umakazi-abantwana-ba-ya-kupuma-ngapi-na ? " Adder- 

which-obstructs-the-doorway-in-the-village-of-Upungula ; — by-what-way-then- 
shall-the-children-go-out ? " Both these laud-giving names have been strangely 
verified in the history and conduct of the young man. Thus in the tale, though 
Umdhlubu is lost, she is not forgotten ; but her brothers swear by her name, 
and her mother's love invents laud -giving names for her. 


UMDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


245 


unina, wa binca ; wa tabata um- 
ngwazi, wa u faka ekanda ; wa ta- 
bata isikaka sake sokwembata, 
w' embata ; wa tabata umgg'oggozo, 
wa puma, w' ek^a ngokujabula, wa 
halalisa ; wa ngena esibayeni, wa 
dAlala e nggabashiya. Ba manga- 
la abantu, ba ti, " Ku ini kunto- 
mbinde nam/da nje na ? U jabu- 
lele ni kangaka na? Loku se i 
loku kwa fa umntanake wamazi- 
bulo, ka sa jabuli ; i loku wa Alu- 
pekayo." 


took her robe, and girded herself ; 
she took her head-ornament, and 
put it on her head ; she took her 
petticoat, and put it on ; she took 
her staff, and went out ; she leaped 
for joy, and halalaed ; 93 she went 
into the cattle-pen ; she played 
leaping about with joy. The 
people wondered and said, " What 
has happened to Untombinde to- 
day ? Why does she rejoice so 
much ? Since from the time her 
first-born died, she has never re- 
joiced, but has constantly been 
sorrowful." 


Another woman joins in the rejoicings. 


Kwa puma omunye oAlangoti 
lwangakwake, wa ti, " Ake ngi 
yo'ubona uma ku kona ni endAlini 
na ? Ini ukuba ngi zwe inkosikazi 
i bonga ngezibongo zomntwana 
owa fayo na?" Wa hamba ke, 
wa ngena endAlini, wa m bona; 
wa puma, wa Alaba umkosi om- 
kulu, wa bonga. 


One from her side 94 went out, 
and said, "Just let me go and see 
what is in the house ? Why do I 
hear the queen lauding with the 
laud-giving names of her dead 
child ?" So she went, and entered 
the house, and saw her ; she went 
out, and shouted aloud, and gave 
thanks. 


The other women are confounded. 


Ba puma bonke abantu. Ba 
gijima ba ya endAlini ngokupange- 
lana. Ba kcindezelana emnyango. 
Ba m bona umntwana. Ba jabula 
abo/dangoti lwangakwabo. Ba 
Alupeka abanye bonke, namakosi- 
kazi olunye uAlangoti a ti, " Hau ! 
ku ngani na ? Loku sa si ti, se si 
m bulele lo 'mntwana. U vukile 
futi. Si za 'ujambiswa kanye na- 
bantabetu. Bu za hipela ubukosi 
kwabetu abantwana." 


All the people went out. They 
ran to the house, hurrying to get 
there first. They crowded each 
other together at the doorway. 
They saw the child. All the peo- 
ple on her side rejoiced. All the 
others were troubled, and the 
queens 95 of the other side said, 
" Ah ! What does it mean ? 
For we thought we had already 
killed this child. She has come 
to life again. We shall be con- 
founded together with our chil- 
dren. The supremacy of our chil- 
dren is coming to an end." 


93 Halala , to shout halala, a shout of joy, like our huzzah. 

94 See Appendix (B). 

93 Every wife of a chief is queen, or chieftainess. So in other kraals each 
W'ife is chieftainess in her own house ( endhlini yakwabo ), and all may be ad- 
dressed by way of politeness as amakosikazi, " chief -wives, " if the chief wife is 
not present ; when she is, she alone is called inkosikazi. 


24 G 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The king is inforr 

Kw' esuka isigijimi, sa ya ku- 
yise, sa hamba, sa fika, sa ti, 
" Nkosi, u vukile umntwana owa 
e file." Ya ti inkosi, " Hau ! u 
ya Alanya na ? U mu pi lowo 'm- 
ntwana na ? " Sa ti isigijimi, 
" UmdAlubu." Wa ti uyise, " U 
vela pi na ? " Sa ti, "A ng' azi, 
nkosi." Wa ti uyise, " Uma ku 
nge si ye, ngi ya 'ku ku bulala. 
Uma ku u ye, gijima, u /dab' urn- 
kosi kuzo zonke izinclawo, ba bute 
izinkabi zonke ezinkulu, b' eze 
nazo." 

The news is published , 

Sa hamba, sa u Zdaba umkosi. 
Sa ti, " Inkosazana i fikile. Tslie- 
tsha ni nezinkabi." Ba buza aba- 
ntu, ba ti, "I ipi inkosazana na 1 ?" 
Sa ti, " Umd/dubu wenkosi, owa e 
file." 

Ba jabula ; ba Alorna iziAlangu 
zabo ; ba tabata izinkabi, ba zi 
k^uba, nezipo zabo zokujabulisa 
inkosazana ; ngokuba i vuke eku- 
feni ; ba i tola, be nga s' azi. Ba 
fika, ba Alaba izinkabi eziningi na 
sezindAleleni, ukuze ku dAle ama- 
kcceku nezalukazi nabagulayo, aba 
nge namand/da okufika ekaya, lapo 
inkosazana i kona. 


The king visit 


ed of her arrival. 

A messenger set out and went 
to her father ; he arrived and said, 
" O king, your child that was dead 
has come to life again." The king 
said, " Hau ! Art thou mad ? 
Which is that child ? " The mes- 
senger said, " Umdhlubu." The 
father said, " Whence comes she ?" 
He said, " I do not know, O king." 
The father said, " If it be not she, 
I will kill thee. If it be she, run, 
raise a cry in all places, that the 
people may bring together all the 
large oxen, and come with them." 

and the people rejoice. 

He went and raised a cry, and 
said, " The princess has come. 
Make haste with the oxen." The 
men asked, " Which princess?" 
He replied, " Umdhlubu the child 
of the king, who was dead." 

They rejoiced ; they took their 
shields ; they took the oxen, and 
drove them ; they took also their 
presents to gladden the princess ; 
for she had risen from death ; they 
found her when they no longer 
expected it. They came ; they 
slaughtered many cattle, even in 
the ways, in order that the old 
men, and the old women, and the 
sick might eat, who were not able 
to reach the home where the prin- 
cess was. 

? iloe princess. 


Wa fika uyise, wa ti, " Puma, 
mntanami, ngi ku bone." Ka 
pendulanga. Wa Alaba izinkabi 
ezi 'mashumi 'mabili. Wa vela 
emnyango, w' ema. Wa Alaba 
amashumi amatatu. Wa puma. 
Wa ti uyise, " Hamba, u ye esiba- 


The father came and said, 
" Come out, my child, that I may 
see you." She did not answer. 
He slaughtered twenty oxen. She 
made her appearance at the door- 
way, and stood still. He slaugh- 
tered thirty ; 90 she came out. The 
father said, " Go into the cattle- 


90 Not thirty other cattle, but ten, making thirty altogether. 


UilDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


247 


yeni, si ye 'ku ku ketela ngokuja- 
bula okukvilu ; ngokuba nga ngi 
ti, u s' u file, kanti u se kona." 
W' ema. Wa buya \va Alaba ama- 
shumi auiane. Wa hamba ke, wa 
ligena esibayeni. 


kraal ; let us go to dance for you, 
for our great joy ; for I used to 
say, you are already dead, but in 
fact you are still alive." She 
stood still. Again he slaughtered 
forty oxen. Then she went, and 
entered into the kraal . 97 


They dance, for her. 


Ba m ketela kakulu. Kodwa 
oluuye u Alan got i lwomuzi a lu ja- 
bulanga, a lu ketanga kanye na- 
bantwana babo namakosikazi. Ba 
k^eda ukuketa. 


They danced for her very much. 
But the other side of the kraal did 
not rejoice ; it did not dance toge- 
ther with the children and queens 
of that side. -They left off dancing. 


The kiny sits with his child, and orders a fat ox to he killed for her. 


TJyise wa ya nave endAlini, wa 
Alala naye, wa ti, " A ku tabatwe 
inkabi entslia enonileyo, i Ala- 
tshwe, ku pekelwe umntwana, 
ukuze si dAle si jabule ; ngokuba 
ub'e file, u vukile ekufeni." 


The father went with her into 
the house, and sat down with her. 
He said, " Let a fat young ox be 
taken, and killed, and cooked for 
the child, that we may eat and 
rejoice, for she was dead, and has 
risen from death." 


The kiny and queen and her children rejoice toyether. 


Ba jabula ke bonke abantu. 
Umntwana wa buyela esikundAle- 
ni sake sobukosi bake. Uyise wa 
busa kakulu, wa buyela kwokwo- 
kuk^ala, wa Alala kulo 'muzi wake, 
ngokuba wa e nga sa Alali kona 
kakulu, ngokuba wa e kumbula 
umntwana wake, owa e file. Ba 
jabula kanye nonina liabantwana 
bakwabo. 


So all the people rejoiced. The 
child returned to her royal posi- 
tion. Her father did right royally ; 
he returned to his former habits, 
and lived at that kraal, for he had 
ceased to be there much, because 
he remembered his child which 
had died. Her mother and the 
children of her house rejoiced 
together. 


The frog is called by the kiny and rewarded. 


Wa buza uyise, wa ti, "U ze 
kanjani lapa 11a 1 " Wa ti um- 
ntwana, " Ngi twaliwe iselesele." 
Wa ti uyise, " Li pi nal" Wa ti 
umntwana, " Li lapaya csiAlaAle- 


Her father asked her, " How 
did you come here ? " The child 
said, " I was brought by a frog." 
The father said, " Where is he ? " 
The child replied, " He is yonder 


97 This custom of slaughtering cattle to induce a person to quit a house, to 
move forward, &e. , is called ukunyatelisa , to make to take steps. 


li n 


248 


IZIN G AN EK WANE. 


ni." Wa t' uyise, "Akutabatwe 
izinkabi ; li vokuketelwa., li ku- 
puke, li ze ekaya." Ba hamba ke, 
ba li ketela. 

B' eza nalo ekaya. La ngeni- 
svva endAlini, la piwa inyama, la 
dAla. Ya buza inkosi, ya ti, " U 
funa ni na, ngi ku kokele na ? " 
La ti, "Ngi funa izinkomo ezi- 
ninyama ezinsizwa." Ya tabata 
izinkomo eziningi, nabantu, ya ti, 
" Hamba ni nalo." Ba liamba ke, 
ba fika ezweni lalo. 


in the bush." The father said, 
" Let oxen be taken, that he may 
be danced for, and come up to our 
home." So they went and danced 
for him. 

They brought him home. They 
brought him into the house and 
gave him meat, and he ate. The 
king enquired, " What do you 
wish that I should give you as a 
reward ?" He said, " I wish some 
black hornless cattle." He took 
many cattle and people, and said, 
" Go with him." So they went 
and came to his country. 


The frog becomes a great chief. 


L' ak' umuzi omkulu, la ba in- 
kosi enkulu. La Alaba ngezikati 
zonke inyama ; ku ze abantu ba ze 
'kukcela inyama. Ba buze ba ti, 
"i P i inkosi yenu na, ef ake lo 
'inuzi na?" Ba ti, " Uselesele." 
Ba ti, "Wau tata pi na umuzi na 
ongaka na ? " Ba ti, "Wau tola 
ngokuba wa leta inkosazana yakiti 
enkosini ; ya m nika izinkomo na- 
bantu." Ba pendula ba ti, " Ni 
ng' abakaselesele na ? " Ba ti, 
" Yebo. Ni nga m bizikabi; u 
ya 'ku ni bulala, ngokuba u inkosi 
enkulu." 

Wa tola Uselesele abantu aba- 
ningi. Ba /dubuka amakosi abo 
ngokubona ukudAla okuningi ku- 
kaselesele. Wa busa ke Uselesele, 
wa ba inkosi. 


The frog built a great town, 
and became a great chief. He 
slaughtered cattle continually ; and 
men came to ask for meat. They 
enquired, " What is your chief 
who built this town ?" They said, 
" Uselesele ." 98 They enquired, 
" Whence did he obtain so large a 
town as this ? " They said, " He 
got it because he brought our 
princess to the king ; so he gave 
him cattle and men." They an- 
swered, saying, " Are you then the 
people of Uselesele? " They said, 
"Yes. Do not speak disrespect- 
fully of him ; he will kill you, for 
he is a great chief." 

Uselesele took many people 
under his protection. They re- 
volted from their chiefs through 
seeing the abundance of food at 
Uselesele's. So Uselesele reigned 
and became a king. 


Umdhlubu's beauty is celebrated , and Unkosi-yasenthla sends his 
people to see her. 

W' ezwa Unkosi-yasenAla ukuti, I Unkosi-yasenthla heard it said, 
" I kona intomb' enAle kankosi- | " Unkosi-yasenzansi" has a beau- 

98 Uselesele, a proper name, The-frog-man. 

99 Comp. p. 89, Note. Or we may render these words, King of the Up- 
lands or Highlands ; and King of the Lowlands. 


UJlDHLUBtJ NESELESELE. 


249 


yasenzansi, igama layo U md/dubu." 
¥a ti kubantu bake, " Hamba ni, 
ni ye 'ku i bona, ukuba intombi e 
njani na." Ba hamba ke, ba fika 
kunkosi-yasenzansi, ba ti, " Nkosi, 
si tunyiwe Unkosi-yasen/da ukuba 
si kete intomb' en/de pakati kwa- 
bantwana bako." 


tiful daughter, named Umdhlubu." 
He said to his people, " Go and 
see what kind of a damsel it is." 
They went, and came to Unkosi- 
yasenzansi, and said, " King, we 
have been sent by Unkosi-yasen- 
thla, that we might select a beau- 
tiful damsel from among your 
children." 


The king's daughters are summoned , and Umdhlubu is chosen for her 
surpassing beauty. 


Wa ba biza ke, b' eza, ba fika. 
Ba za ba bona intombi yanye ku- 
zo zonke, eyona y' a/dula ezinye 
ngobu/de. Ngokukumbula, ukuba 
uma inkosi i tume abantu ukuya 
'uketa intombi enAle, ku fanele ba 
bhekisise kakulu ; ngokuba labo 
'bantu ba ame/do enkosi ngoku ba 
temba, b' enzela ukuze ba nga 
solwa, lapa se i fike 'kaya. Ba i 
bona imbi, i nga fani nentombi e 
ketelwe inkosi, ba sole kakulu, 
ngokuti, " Ku ngani ukuba inkosi 
ni i Alebe, ni i ketele into embi 
na?" Udumo lwalabo 'bantu lu 
pele ; ba suswe na sesikund/deni 
esi/de ngokuti a ba tembeki. 
Ngaloko ke Umd/dubu ba m keta 
ngalobo 'bu/de ngokuti, " U yena 
lo yedwa o fanele ukuba inkosikazi 
y enkosi kunazo zonke lezi." 


He summoned them, and they 
came. At length they saw one 
only damsel which excelled all the 
others in beauty. For they re- 
membered, that if a king has sent 
people to go and choose a beautiful 
damsel, it is proper that they 
should look very earnestly ; for 
those people are the king's eyes, 
because he trusts them. They 
look earnestly, that they may 
not be reproved when the dam- 
sel is brought home. When 
they see she is ugly, not like 
a damsel which has been cho- 
sen for a king, they find great 
fault, saying, " Why have you dis- 
graced the king by choosing an 
ugly thing for him ?" The honour 
of those men is ended ; they are 
removed from their honourable 
office, because they are not trust- 
worthy. Therefore they chose 
Umdhlubu for her beauty-sake, 
saying, " It is she only who is fit 
to be the king's queen above all 
the others." 


The others are ashamed , and hate her. 


I ngalo ke eza shiywako za 
jamba, naonina ba jamba, nabane 
wabo ba jamba. Kwabo-mdAlu- 
bu kwa jabulwa. Ukujabula kwa 


Therefore those who were left 
were ashamed ; and their mothers 
were ashamed ; and their brothel's 
were ashamed . 1 There was rejoic- 
ing in the house of Umdhlubu. 


1 That is, those belonging to the other side of the village. 


250 


IZINGAXEKWAXE. 


k^ala kumdAlubu, o bonakaliswe 
pakati kweziningi na semeAlweni 
abo bonke, ngokuti, " Nangu omu- 
h le impela ! " Unina wa tsho 
enAliziyweni yake ukuti, " Nga m 
zala kaAle umntanami ! " N aba- 
kwabo ba kuliswa, noma unina 
wabo a e kuliswe kade inkosi ngo- 
kutandwa. Nanto ke uzondo 
olona lw' anda kuleyo 'nd/du ya- 
kwabo-mdAlubu ; a lwa ba lu sa 
pela, ngokuba inkosi yezizwe ya 
pinda ya tanda UmdAlubu, loku 
nonina wake wa e tandwa futi ka- 
kulu uyise kamd/dubu. Ukuzo- 
ndeka kwa ba kukulu kwamanye 
amakosikazi ngobu/de bukaind/du- 
bu, obwa tandwa inkosi yezizwe 
pezu kwabantwana bawo bonke. 
Ba jamba njalo. 


The joy began with Umdhlubu, 
who was conspicuous for beauty 
among many other damsels and 
in the eyes of them all, for 
it was said, " There is a beau- 
tiful woman indeed ! " Her mo- 
ther rejoiced in her heart, saying, 
" I did well when I gave birth to 
my child ! " And the children of 
her house were exalted, although 
their mother had been long ago 
exalted 2 by the king, through 
being loved. There, then, was the 
hatred which increased towards 
that house of Umdhlubu ; it never 
ceased, for a king of another na- 
tion loved Umdhlubu, as her 
mother also was loved very much 
by the father of Umdhlubu. There 
was a very great hatred in the 
hearts of the other queens, on ac- 
count of the beauty of Umdhlubu, 
which was admired by the king of 
another people above all their own 
children. They were ashamed for 
ever. 


Unkosi-yasenthla (joes with a thousand head of cattle to take Um- 
dhlubu as his bride. 


Ba bheka ke, ba keta UmdAlu- 
bu. B' einuka, ba ya 'kutshela 
inkosi. Ba fika ekaya, ba ti, 
" Nkosi, si i bonile intombi enAle, 
igarna layo UmdAlubu." Ya ti 
inkosi, " Ehe ; ku/de ke. Ku 
fanele ukuba si hambe, si ye kona, 
si tabate izinkomo ezi inkulungwa- 
ne." Ba hamba ke. 


So they looked, and chose Um- 
dhlubu. They departed to tell 
the king. They arrived home, and 
said, "King, we have seen the beau- 
tiful damsel ; her name is Um- 
dhlubu." The king said, " Aye ; 
it is well. We must set out and 
go thither, and take a thousand 
head of cattle." So they set out. 


He arrives at the king's, and asks for Umdhlubu in marriage. 


Wa ti Unkosi-yasenzansi e Alezi j Unkosi-yasenzansi, as he was 
emtunzini pakati kwesibaya na- | sitting in the shade within the 

2 Noma , etc. — This mode of expression is used to imply that the exaltation 
is nothing new, but something super-added to a dignity already possessed. If 
any one addressed a great man by saying, Si ya ku kulisa kule ' ndawo, "We 
honour you in regard to that matter," he would reply, Okwesingaki ukukuliswa 
na ? "Whence does that honour spring ?" The man would at once understand that 
he claimed a previous honour, and would ask, Umkulu ngapambili na? "Has 
he a greatness before now ? " They would say to a great man, Bani, si ya ku 
kulisa kule 'nclawo, noma umkulu kade," "So-and-so, we honour you in that 
matter, though you are already great." 


UMDHLUBU XESELESELE. 


251 


bantu bake, wa ti, " Ku ini lokuya 
na ? Ku kona utuli olukulu olu 
Alan gene nezulu." B' esaba. Wa 
ti emabutweni ake, " Zilungisele 
ni, ngokuba a si kvv azi oku zayo." 
Ngeinva kwaloko kwa vela izin- 
komo, zi liamba nenkosi nabantu 
bayo. Ba ba Alangabeza. 

Wa ti, " Ngi ng' Unkosi-yase- 
nAla, ngi ze kumdAlubu." Ba 

hamba naye, ba y' ekaya. Ba 

¦fika, ba kuleka. Uyise wa jabula 
uni ezwe loko. 


The khv. 

Ba Alabiswa. Ba kuluma no- 
yise. Wa ti Unkosi-yasenAla, 

" Ngi ze kuwe, nkosi-yasenzausi, 
ngi funa ukutabata intombi yako ; 
lima u vuma, ku lungile. Ngi ze 
nezinkomo ezi inkulungwane." 
Wa vuma uyise, wa ti, " Ku lu- 
ngile." 

Umdhlubu is given 

Wa buta izintombi zonke nabe- 
silisa, amakeAla nezinsizwa ; wa 
kipa abantu boku m sebenzela 
UmclAlubu. Wa kipa itusi loku 
m endisa nobuAlalu, nezinkabi ezi 
'makulu 'maAlanu, wa ti, " Ku 
lungile ke. Hamba naye. Nansi 
induna yoku m endisa." 


They are received with rejoicii 

Ba hamba naye, ba fika ekaya. 
Ba ti, be sa vela, kwa Alatshwa 
umkosi omkulu, abantu ba vela 

3 Head-ring. 


cattle-pen with his people, said, 
" What is that yonder ? There is 
a great dust which rises to the 
heaven." They were afraid. He 
said to his soldiers, " Get ready to 
fight, for we do not know what is 
coming." After that the cattle 
appeared going with the king and 
his people. They went to meet 
them. 

He said, " I am Unkosi-vasen- 
tlila ; I come to see Umdhlubu." 
They went with him home. When 
they arrived, they asked to have 
Umdhlubu given them. Her fa- 
ther rejoiced when he heard that. 

assents. 

They had cattle slaughtered for 
them. They spoke with the father. 
Unkosi-yasentlila said, " I come to 
you, Unkosi-yasenzansi, I being 
desirous of taking your daughter ; 
if you assent, it is well. I come 
with a thousand cattle." The 
father assented, saying, " It is 
well." 

to Unkosi-yasentlila. 

He assembled all the girls, and 
all the men, the young men with 
head-rings, 3 and the youth ; he 
set apart men for the purpose of 
working for Umdhlubu. He took 
out brass and beads for her mar- 
riage, and five hundred oxen, and 
said, " Now it is right. Set out 
with her. There is an officer for 
the purpose of conducting the 
wedding ceremonies." 

7 by Unkosi-yasenthld s people. 

They went with him, and reach- 
ed his home. As they were coming 
into sight, a great cry was raised, 

-See p. 210. 


252 


IZIJiGANEKYTANK. 


iudawana zonke, ba ti, "I fikile 
inkosikazi kankosi-yasenAla. " Ba 
jabula. 

Kwa lalwa. Kwa ti kusasa, 
uma li pume ilanga, kwa fudumala, 
za puma izintombi namakeAla ne- 
zinsizwa, za ya esiAlaAleni, za 7dala 
kona. Kwa fika isikati seketo, ba 
keta ; ba i tabata esi/da/deni in- 
tombi ; ya goduka, ya ya 'kusina. 


and the people appeared in all di- 
rections, shouting, " The queen of 
Unkosi-yasenthla has come." They 
rejoiced. 

They retired to rest. In the 
morning, when the sun had risen, 
and it was hot, the damsels went 
out with the young men and 
youth, and went into the bush ; 
they sat down there. When the 
time for dancing arrived, they 
danced ; they fetched the damsel 
from the bush ; she went to the 
kraal to dance. 


They complete the marriage ceremonies. 


Ba sina ke, ba kgeda. Ya tata 
itusi, ya li beka pambili kukayise, 
ya kuleka, ya ti, " Nkosi, u ze u 
ngi londoloze, ngokuba manje se 
ngi pakati kwesandAla sako, u ngi 
gcine." 

Ba h\ ala pansi wonk' umtimba. 
Ba ba ketela. Ba k^eda ukuketa. 
Kwa ti kusasa ya Alaba intombi 
izinkomo ezi ishumi ; ba d/da, ba 
jabula. 


So they ended the dance. She 
took brass, and placed it before her 
father, 4 and prayed, saying, 
" Sire, take care of me for ever, 
for now I am in thy hand, pre- 
serve me." 

The whole marriage party sat 
down. They danced for them. 
They ended the dance. In the 
morning the damsel killed ten bul- 
locks ; they ate and rejoiced. 


The officer returns with a present for Umdhlubu's mother. 


Ya tsho induna, ya ti, " Nkosi, 
se si funa ukuhamba, si goduke, 
ngokuba umsebenzi u pelile." 

Ya tabata izinkomo ezi 'makulu 
'ma/danu, ya ti, ezikanina. Ba 
goduka. 


The officer said, " Sire, we now 
wish to set out to return home, for 
the work is done." 

The king took five hundred head 
of cattle, and sent them as a pre- 
sent to his mother. 5 They went 
home. 


They build Umdhlubu's town. 


Kwa sala izintomhi. Wa e te 
uyise, a zi nga goduki, zi Alale 
naye, zi m sebenzele ; nabantu 
abaningi, isilisa nesifazana sokwaka 
umuzi wake, ba Alala kona. 

Ya ti inkosi, " Gaula ni manje 
umuzi wenkosikazi, i Alale nabantu 
bayo." 


The damsels remained. IJm- 
dhlubu's father had said that they 
were not to return, but stay with 
her, and work for her ; and much 
people, both male and female, re- 
mained there to build her town. 

The king said, " Now build the 
town of the queen, where she may 
live with her people." 

5 That is, his wife's mother. 


4 That is, her husband's father. 


UMDHLUBU NESELESELE. 


253 


U nkosi-yasenthla talc 

W' akiwa ke umuzi, wa k^edwa. 
Ya ya kona ; kwa Alatshwa izin- 
kabi eziningi, ukuze amabuto a 
dAle, a vutise umuzi wenkosikazi. 
Ya hamba nenkosi, ya ya 'kuAlala 
kona emzini omutsha. Ya m ta- 
bata ke UmdAlubu. 

The people return in saj 

Ba fika abantu bakayise kam- 
dAlubu ekaya, ba ti, " Nkosi, si 
sebenzile kaAle kakulu. Nazi 
izinkomo zikanina kamdAlubu ; u 
zi piwe indodana yake. U te, a si 
ze si m konzele na kuyise na ku- 
nina." 

Bonke ke ba pila kaAle 'ndawo 
n ye. 

Mary (Uhkampengula). 


s up his abode there. 

So the town was built and com- 
pleted. The king visited it ; many 
cattle were killed, that the soldiers 
might eat, and complete the queen's 
town. The king also went to live 
there at the new town. Thus he 
took Umdhlubu to be his wife. 

ity to Unkosi-yasenzansi. 

The people of Umdhlubu's fa- 
ther reached their home, and said, 
" O king, we have done all things 
very well. There are cattle for 
Umdhlubu's mother ; they are 
given to her by her son. He told 
us to give his respects to both his 
father and mother." 

So all lived together in peace. 


APPENDIX (A). 

INDABA YENKOSI YENTOMBI. 
(the account of a girl-king.) 


Ku ti lapa ku kona izintombi ezi- 
ningi, kulowo 'mfula ow akiweyo 
izintombi zi Alangane, zi beke in- 
kosi yokuba i buse izintombi, ku 
nga bi ko intombi e zenzela ngo- 
kwayo. Nembala ke zi Alangane 
zi buzane ngokuti, " Intombi e nga 
ba inkosi, i buse kaAle, i nga ba i 
pi na h " Zi fune, zi fune, zi beke, 
zi kipe, zi ze zi vumelane kuyo i 
be nye, zi ti, " Yebo, Unobani u 
ya 'kubusa." 

Njalo ke noma ku ya fika ama- 
soka azo, a ya bikwa kuyo ; uma i 
nga tandi ukuba zi ye kuwo, zi 
nga yi ; zi botshwe ngomteto wen- 
tombi leyo e inkosi. Uma ku 


W hen there are many young 
women, they assemble on the river 
where they live, and appoint a 
chief over the young women, that 
no young woman may assume 
to act for herself. Well, then, 
they assemble and ask each other, 
" Which among the damsels is fit 
to be chief and to reign well 1 " 
They make many enquiries ; one 
after another is nominated, and 
rejected, until at length they agree 
together to appoint one, saying, 
" Yes, So-and-so shall reign." 

So then when sweethearts come, 
they are reported to her ; if 
she does not wish the damsels to 
go to them, they do not go ; they 
are bound by the word of the 
damsel which is their chief. If 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


254 


kona ey' onayo, i Alauliswe isi/da- 
ulo esitile ezintweni zayo ; loku- 
pela a zi naukomo, a zi fuye 'Into, 
i zona zi fuyiwe aoyise ; imfuyo 
yazo ubu/dalu netusi liokunye 
kwezintwana ; i loko ke oku im- 
fuyo e zi /daula ngako, uma enye 
y enze ikcala. Ku ya buswa ka- 
kulu inkosi yazo. 


Kepa abanye abantu ba ya pika, 
ba ti, "A ku lungile ukuba ku be 
kona inkosi yezintombi." A ba 
tslio ngokuti, kubi ; ba tsho ngo- 
kuba ku tiwa, inkosi e busa izin- 
tombi a i pati 'mntwana, i ya 
bujelwa ; ku njalo ke uyise wayo 
'ale ukuba i buse. Ke])a a kw a- 
zeki ukuba ku isiminya impela, 
ngokuba noma zi feiwa, ezinye zi 
ya ba pata, 

Ku njalo ke ku ti ngesikati 
sokuba ku ngena ulibo, ukuti 
ukwin/da, amasoka a tandwa izin- 
tombi a wa d/di ukwin/da kuk^ala, 
e nga ka biki ezintombini ; futi 
intonibi i nge d/de ukwin/da i nga 
ka biki enkosini yayo ; futi na se- 
sokeni i nge li bikele, uma i nga 
nyomanga kuk(/ala enkosini yazo. 
A ku bikwa ngomloino nje ; ku 
bikwa ngento, ku tiwe, " Nansi 
into yokubika ukwin/da. U ng' e- 
tuki ; se ngi ya d/da." Uma ya 
d/da i nga bikanga, i nekcala en- 
kosini yezintombi ; i ya 'ku/dauli- 
swa, i pute kuko konke loko e be 
i ya 'kuvunyelwa uma i lindile. 
Ku ngokuba i nga lindauga i ya 
/dupeka ngokuvinjelwa kuko ko- 
nke. 


any is guilty of an offence, she is 
fined by a fine taken from some- 
thing belonging to her ; for in fact 
they have no cattle nor any live 
stock ; their fathers possess such 
things ; their property consists of 
beads and brass, and other such 
little matters; this, then, is the 
property with which they pay 
their fines, if any do wrong. The 
chief of the damsels exercises 
great authority. 

But some will not permit their 
daughter to be elected chief, for 
they say, it is not proper that 
there should be a chief of the 
damsels. They do not say so be- 
cause it is wrong, but because it is 
said, a girl-king never nurses a 
child, they all die ; it is on this 
account that her father will not 
allow her to be king. But it is 
*hot known that this is really true ; 
for although the children of some 
die, the children of others grow up. 

So then, at the time of the ap- 
proach of the feast of firstfruits, 
that»is, when they are about to eat 
new food, those young men who 
are loved by the damsels do not 
eat new food before they have 
given notice to them ; and a dam- 
sel cannot eat new food until she 
has given notice to her chief ; and 
she cannot tell her sweetheart be- 
fore she has first told the "irl-king. 
They do not give notice with the 
mouth only, but with some pre- 
sent, saying, " Here is my present 
by which I give notice that I am 
about to eat new food. Do not 
wonder ; I am now eating it." If 
she eat without having given no- 
tice, she has committed an offence 
against the girl-king ; she is fined, 
and is refused all things which she 
would have been allowed if she 
had waited. Because she did not 
wait she is vexed by being ob- 
structed in all her wishes. 


THE GIRL-KING. 


255 


Amasoka uma e fika emgon^we- 
ni, lapa ku tombe intombi kona, — 
ngokuba uina intombi i tom bile u 
lapo k\v enziwa isidala sokuba 
abatsba bonke ba /dangane ukuba 
ba ye emgon^weni lapo ku tonji- 
swe kona ; isidala ukuba ku y' azi- 
wa ukuba leyo 'nd/du lapa ku 
tombele intombi kona, se ku in- 
d/tlu yamasoka nezintombi, lapa 
ku ya 'kubizwa konke okubi, uku- 
Alonipa ngalolu 'suku ku ya pela, 
ku bizwa konke okwcsabekayo, 
njengokungati ukutomba kwen- 
tombi ku kulula abantu ekuAlupe- 
keni konke ngoku/donipa izinto 
ezi nge bizwe obala, umuntu e ku 
nga tiwa, uma e zi hiza ngamagama 
azo, u Alanya. Lapo ke erngo- 
m/weni abantu ba penduka izin- 
Alanya bonke ; ngokuba ku nga bi 
ko omkulu o nga ti, " Musa ni 
ukupata loku." Hai, ku y' aziwa 
ukuba lusuku lwesidala, ukuba 
kw enzivve konke njengokutanda 
kwezinAliziyo zaba semgon^weni. 
Ngaloko ke ngesinye isikati nga- 
langa linye ku fika amasoka a vela 
ezindaweni eziningi, nendAlu i be 
ncinane; a vinjelwe ukuba a ngene, 
a ze a koke. Uma ku kona inkosi 
yazo, ku boniswe yon a leyo 'nto e 
vula umnyango ; uma incinane 
y ale, ku vezwe enkulu njalo. 
Umfazi o lala emgom/weni 'ale 
ukupuma, a vimbele amasoka, a 
ko/dwe nezintombi, a ze a m kipe 
ngento, a pume ke ; ba sale ke, ba 


c This word is not only applied to 
which it is built. 


When young men come to the 
umgon^o, where the ceremonies of 
puberty are being performed, — for 
when a damsel is of age, it is then 
that the filthy custom is practised 
of all the young people assembling 
to go to the umgonz/o where the 
ceremonies of puberty are perform- 
ed ; the filthiness is this, that it is 
known that the house where a 
damsel is subjected to the ceremo- 
nies of puberty is now a house of 
sweethearts and damsels, where all 
kind of evil will be spoken ; 
modesty is at an end at that time, 
and all fearful things are mention- 
ed, as if the puberty of a young 
woman set all free from all trouble 
of behaving modestly in reference 
to things which ought not to be 
openly mentioned, and which if a 
man mentioned them by name, he 
would be regarded as mad. There, 
then, at the umgon^o all people 
become mad, for there is no one of 
authority there who can say, " Do 
not mention such things." No, it 
is known that it is a day of filthi- 
ness, in which every tiling may be 
done according to the heart's de- 
sire of those who gather around 
the umgon^o. So, then, at one 
time of the same day there come 
young men from all quarters, and 
the house is too small to admit 
them ; they are prevented from 
entering until they have made a 
present; if there is a girl-king, 
she determines what shall open the 
door ; if the present is small, she 
refuses ; and so a larger offering is 
made. The woman who sleeps in 
the umgon^o 6 refuses to go out, 
and obstructs the young men ; and 
they are prevented from entering 
also by the other damsels, until 
they induce her to go out by a 
present ; so she goes out, and the 

the umgon^o proper, but to the hut in 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


256 

zid/dalele ngako konke. U njalo 
ke umgongo ukuhamba kwawo. 

U mkosi wentombi, ukuba kw e- 
nziwe utshwala obukulu, ku bu- 
tane abantu abaningi, ba puze. 
Kepa lowo 'mkosi a u dAlaleli 
ekaya njengomkosi wenkosi im- 
pela ; ai, u d/dalela emfuleni. Ku 
ze 'kubuka aba tandayo. Abanye 
ba nga zikatazi, ngokuba b' azi 
ukuba ku umfanekiso nje. " Isi- 
fazana si kw azi ngani ukud/dalisa 
kwenkosi impela na ? " U ba 
mkulu lowo 'mkosi ngokuba kw e- 
nziwe utshwala nje bokupuza. 

Ku njalo ke ukubusa k wen- 
tombi. 

Umpengula M band a. 


young people remain alone, and 
sport after their own fancies in 
every respect. Such, then, is the 
conduct of the umgonyo. 

The festival of a girl-king is 
this, — much beer is made, many 
people are assembled and drink. 
But the festival is not kept at 
home, as is that of one who is a 
chief indeed. No, it is kept near 
the river. Those who wish come 
to look on ; some will not trouble 
themselves to go, for they know it 
is a mere play, and ask, " How 
should woman know how to act 
the king indeed ? " The festival 
is great because there is much beer 
to drink. 

Such, then, is the government 
of a girl. 


APPENDIX (B.) 

THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


Indaba yo/dangoti lwesitembu e 
ku tiwa uAlangoti lwakwabo um- 
fana o inkosana kayise. 

Abafazi aba zekwa ngezinkomo 
zakwabo-mkulu ku se ifa lake 
omkulu ; labo bonke naba zekwa 


The account of the side of a poly- 
gamic house which is called the 
side of the house of the boy who 
is the little chief 7 of his father. 
The women who are taken to 
wife by the cattle of the eldest 
son's house , 8 become the heritage 
of the eldest son ; all of them are 


7 The little chief of his father, that is, the heir-at-law, — the next chief or 
head after the father. He is also called inkosi, " chief." To avoid confusion I 
generally translate such terms by heir, or eldest son. 

8 It is important for the understanding of this matter to note the distinc- 
tion made between kwabo-mkulu, which I have translated "the eldest son's 
house," and kwabo impela, (or as expressed lower down kwdbo-mfana, ) which I 
have translated "the eldest son's house in particular." The eldest son born to 
the chief wife or inkosikazi, has two inheritances, — the one hereditary derived 
from his father, and father's father backwards. This is the inheritance kwabo- 
mkulu, and must descend from him, as it came to him by the law of inheritance, 
that is, of primogeniture. The other is derived from his mother, — a cow or 
more given her by. her father, or by a friend, or obtained by labour, becomes a 
new source of property, and is kept distinct in its appropriation from the pater- 
nal heritage. The difference is similar to that between entailed and personal 
property. But the entailed property of the native is invested in wives, girls, 
and cattle, and is necessarily as fluctuating as any other moveable property. 
The property of the eldest son's house ( ifa lakwabo-mkulu ) is the hereditary 
estate. Note too the expression, Abafazi bakwabo-leyo ' nkomo , " The wives of 
the house of that cow." 


THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


257 


ngezinkomo zakwabo impela, ezi 
zalwa inkomo eya nikwa unina, e 
nikwa uyise noma iiyise-mkulu ; 
lezo 'nkomo zi ya 'uzeka abafazi 
bakwabo-leyo 'nkomo lapa ya vela 
kona, kwabo-mfana. Noma umuzi 
u ze u be mkulu ngabafazi balezo 
'nkomo lowo 'muzi owake wonke 
lo 'mfana. Uma be pela bonke 
abantwana balezo 'nd/Ju ifa lonke 
labo li butwa u yena ; a ku ko na- 
munye o nga banga naye ukuti 
u/dangoti lwakwetu, u tsho ngo- 
kuba labo 'bafazi be zekwa ngen- 
komo zakwabo. A ba kude naye, 
ba se pansi kwake. 


Kodwa umfazi o zekwa uyise 
ngenkomo e nge si yo yelifa, i 
inkomo yake nje, e nge bliekwe 


his heritage, together with those 
who are taken to wife by cattle of 
his house in particular, which are 
the offspring of a cow, which his 
mother gave him, which her father 
or grandfather gave her ; 9 wo- 
men taken to wife by these cattle 
belong to the house whence that 
cow came, the son's house . 10 And 
even if the village at length be- 
come great through the wives of 
those cows , 11 the whole village is 
that boy's. If all the children of 
the several houses die, he is the 
heir of all their property ; there is 
no one who can set up against him 
a claim, on the ground of its be- 
longing to his side of the village, 
that is, on the ground that the 
women were taken to wife by 
cattle belonging to his house. 
They are not persons of another 
family ; 12 they are subject to him. 

But as to a woman whom his 
father takes to wife by a cow 
which does not belong to the here- 
ditary estate, but is his own per- 
sonal property, which is not re- 


9 A new estate is commenced by gifts to the mother, — by her labour, — by 
girls whom she may have after giving one over to the chief house, — or by gifts 
to the eldest son, or by his labour and by the labour of other children till they 
are married. If any such property is taken by the father to pay the dowry of 
a new wife, that wife belongs to the house to which the property belonged. 

Some such custom as regards marriage as this here represented as in force 
among the natives, must have existed among the- people of Asia in the time of 
Jacob ; and the account here given is calculated to throw much light on the his- 
tory of his life and that of his children. By recalling that familiar history and 
looking at it from a new point of view, we shall also be helped to understand 
better the state of the native law in such matters. It would appear that Leah 
was the inkosikazi or chief -wife ; and Rachel the second chief wife or hill ; 
Rachel gives Jacob her maid Bilhah that she might have children by her , that is, 
the house of Bilhah is a secondary house under Rachel, who is the chief - 
tainess of the secondary great house, and the children born to Jacob in that 
house are Rachel's. Then Leah follows Rachel's example, and gives Jacob Zil- 
pah, and Zilpah's house is a secondary house under Leah, whose is the in- 
dhlu-nkulu or chief house. Reuben is the "little chief of his father;" and 
Joseph the " iponsakubusa. " His position not only as the favourite of his 
father, but as the chief of the secondary great house, explains his dreams of 
superiority, and the jealousy of his half-brothers of the house of Leah. 

10 That is, the house of the eldest son, — the house of which his mother is 
the chief. 

11 That is, the wives who have been paid for by those cows. 

12 Lit., They are not at a distance from him, but are so near to him that if 
the heir die, he becomes heir. 


258 


IZINCANEKWANE. 


inkosikazi, e nge i bange futi ; 
indoda i ya tsho enkosikazini 
ukuti, " Le inkomo, mabani, a i si 
yo inkomo yakwako • ngokuba a 
ngi tatanga 'Into lwend/du yako, 
neyakwetu futi ; inkomo yami e 
nge bangwe 'muntu ; ngi ya 'ku- 
zeka ngayo mnfazi wami, o nge si 
ye nowakwako, e owami ngedwa 
nje, umuzi wami ; ngokuba wena 
u umfazi kababa." 


Leyo 'nkomo nku i tola kwake 
i loku, ukuba indoda i lime insimu 
yayo, amabele ayo a nga Alangani- 
swa nawend/du-nkulu , a be wodwa, 
i tenge inkomo ke. Nako ke 
ukwa/duka kwaleyo 'nkomo. Ku- 
mbe i lime uguai ; i nga tslio uku- 
ba leso 'siguai esikamabani, i ti 
isiguai sami nje, nensimu leyo i 
nga i bizi ngend/du yayo, ngokuba 
umfazi o inkosikazi u nga banga 
uma into i bizwa ngaye, a pind' a- 
mukwe. Kw enzelwa loko ukuze 
a nga i bangi into enjalo. 


Leyo 'nkomo ke, lapa se y andi- 
le, ya zeka umfazi, ku y' aziwa 
ukuti lowo 'mfazi ka si ye umfazi 
wakwa-nkosikazi, nowakwabo kan- 
doda, ngokuba kulezo 'nd/du zom- 
bili a ku pumanga 'luto. Uma 


garded by the chief wife [as 
belonging to her], and which she 
cannot claim. [When the husband 
comes home with such a cow,] he 
says to the chief wife, " This cow, 
daughter of So-and-so, is not a cow 
of your house, for I took nothing 
from your house, nor from the 
hereditary estate ; it is my cow on 
which no one can have a claim ; I 
shall marry with it my wife, who 
will not be a wife belonging to 
your house, but is my wife only, 
— my village ; for you are a wife 
whom I took by my father's cattle. 

The husband gains such a cow 
in this way, — he cultivates a garden 
by himself, and the resulting pro- 
duce is not mixed with the pro- 
duce of the chief house, but is kept 
by itself, and he buys a cow with 
it. Such, then, is the distinction 
between that cow [and the cattle 
of the hereditary estate]. Or he 
may cultivate tobacco ; he does not 
say the tobacco-field is the chief 
wife's, but he says, "It is my 
field," and he does not call the 
field by the chief wife's house, for 
a chief wife can put in a claim if 
a thing is called hers, when it has 
been taken away again. The hus- 
band acts thus that no claim may 
be made to such a thing. 

When that cow, then, has in- 
creased, and he has taken another 
wife by it, it is known that that 
wife does not belong to the chief 
wife's house, nor to the hereditary 
estate of the husband ; 13 for no- 
thing has been derived from either 
for the purchase of the cow. If 


13 The reader must bear in mind that in a large household there may be dis- 
tinguished the following houses which have especial claims : — 

1. Indhlu yakwdbo-mkulu, or yakwabo-kandoda. The hereditary estate. 

2. Indhlu yakwabo-ndodana enkulu. The house of the chief wife. The 
eldest son is heir of the property derived from both these. And the father cannot 
marry a wife by cattle belonging to either of these without placing the new wife 
under the chief wife, and whose house, viz., heir, has a claim upon the house of 


THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


259 


izinkomo lezo zaleyo 'nkomo za 
zeka umfazi a za pela, ku se izin- 
komo zakwake lowo 'mfazi ; ku 
tiwa u intaba. 

Futi, ku tiwa indodana yake 
iponsakubusa, ukuti ka 'nkosi, 
kcxlwa emzini wakwabo uma se 
w andile u ya busa ngokwake ku- 
lowo 'muzi • ka pazamiswa 'luto. 

Uma lezo 'nkomo zi sele ekulo- 
boleni, uyise a nike inkosikazi yake 
inkomo yakwayo uma e nga tandi 
ukuba ezi seleyo zi be ezakwa-nko- 
sikazi leyo e intaba. Uma e tanda 
a z ' etule kona, ati, "Nazi inkomo 
zakwako." I nga zi banga uma 
indoda i zek' umfazi o nge si ye 
ow elamana nenkosikazi, i nga 
banga kakulu ngokuti, " Ku ngani 
ukuba ngi d/di we umuzi wami 
na ? " I tsho ngokuba indoda se i 
ti, umfazi e ngi za 'u m zeka ka si 
ye wakwako. Umfazi wami nje. 


the offspring of that cow are not 
all taken for the dowry of the 
wife, those which remain are the 
property of her house, and she is 
called a hill . 14 

Further, her son is called ipo- 
nsakubusa , 15 that is, he is not 
chief ; but in the village of his 
mother's house when it has become 
great, he is the only head there, 
and is in no way interfered with. 

When cattle remain after paying 
the dowry, the father may give his 
chief wife a cow that it may be 
the property of her house, if he 
does not wish that they should 
belong to the house of that chief 
wife which is a hill. If he wish, 
he can give the cattle to her, say- 
ing, " Here are the cattle of your 
house." She can make a claim on 
them if the husband marry a wife 
and does not place her under her- 
self; she can make a great claim, 
saying, " Why is my village de- 
voured ? " She says thus because 
the husband says, " The wife I am 
now about to take does not belong 
to your house ; she is my wife 


the secondary wife ; which claim is settled by the first born female child be- 
coming the property of the chief house. 

3. Indhlu yakwabo, the house of a secondary or tertiary, &c., wife. 

4. The husband has his private or personal property, with w r hich he can do 
as he pleases. This is the heritage of the eldest son, if unappropriated at the 
father's death. 

5. Indhlu yaktcabo-ponsakubusa. The secondary great house ( indhlu-nkulu 
yobubili ), which is constituted by the husband taking a secondary chief wife by 
his own private property. This house has no right to inherit the property of 
the great house but as the result of death carrying off all the heirs of the great 
house. Neither can the heir of the great house put in any claim to the heritage 
of this house, so long as any male child belonging to it survives. 

14 An Intaba , or hill, not a ridge to which we give the name of hill, but a 
hill which stands out alone, without any connection with other hills. She is so 
called because she stands out alone, — the commencement of a new house, owing 
nothing to the forefathers of the husband ( indhlu yakwabo-mkulu ), nor to the 
house of the chief wife. 

15 Iponsa-kvhusa , The-almost-a-chief. For he is not chief as regards his 
father's house ; the eldest son of the chief wife is chief and heir of that ; but 
he is chief and heir in the secondary great house. The place of the chief, in 
a kraal or in a hut, is on the right hand side of the doorway. If the eldest son 
of the great house and the iponsakubusa are both at the same time in the hut, 
the eldest son sits near the doorway on the right, — that is, the chief place, — the 
iponsakubusa on the left of the doorway. But if neither the eldest son nor tho 
father is there, the iponsakuJyusa sits in the chief place above all the other chil- 
dren both of the great house and of his own. The iponsakubusa also sends the 
insonyama to the chief house. 


2G0 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Y' etuke ke inkosikazi, ngokuti, 
" Uma nga u zeka umfazi wako 
njalo o ngeni nami, kepa inkomo 
lezi zabanta bami zi ya ngapi na ? 
Tata ngezako, ukuze ku ku fanele 
loku o kw enzayo." Ukubanga 
ku vela ngendawo enjalo. 

Futi, uma izinkomo ezi zeka 
umfazi o ku tiwa u intaba zincane, 
indoda ya silalelwa, a ya kgeda 
ngeukomo lezo, ya pin da ya tata 
kweza-send/du-nkulu, ya k^eda 
ngazo, owa sendAlu-nkulu u ya 
'kubanga, ka yi 'kuvuma kum- 
ntwana o ku tiwa iponsakubusa ; 
u ya 'kutsho, a ti, " K^a, naye u 
ind/du yakwetu, ngokuba neza- 
kwetu izinkomo zi kona ezinko- 
meni eza zeka unina." Uyise uma 
e tanda ukuba lowo 'mntwana 
wake o iponsakubusa a nga buyeli 
end/du-nkulu, a nga zi koka lezo 
'nkomo a zi kipe ngezinye, ukuze 
ukumisa kukayise walo 'mntwana 
ku k^ine, ku nga kciteki. 


Naye ke u no/dangoti lwakwabo 
lwenkomo zakwabo ; noma ku nge 
si zo zakwabo, uyise uma e nezin- 
komo zake nje, ezi nge bangwe 
'ndawo, a nga w andisa lowo 'muzi 
ngokuzinge e tata umfazi e ti owa- 
kona njalo, u ze u be umuzi ; labo 
'bafazi bonke ba ifa lakona. 


only." So that chief wife 10 starts 
saying, "If you thus take your 
wife who has no connection with 
me, what will become of my 
children's cattle? Take of your 
own cattle, that what you are 
doing may be right." The disputed 
right arises in such circumstances 
as these. 

Further, if the cattle with 
wdiich the wbfe who is a hill is 
taken are few, and the husband 
comes short, and does not make 
up the requisite number with 
the cattle wdiich belong to him- 
self, but takes some from those 
of the chief house, the heir 
of the chief house will put in 
a claim, and will not agree 
with the son wdio is called the 
iponsakubusa, but will say, " No, 
he too is a part of my house, for 
there are the cattle of my house 
too among the cattle by which his 
mother was taken to wdfe." If 
the father wishes that that child 
which is the iponsakubusa should 
not return to the great house, he 
may pay back the cattle which he 
took by others, that the appoint- 
ment of the father of that child 
may not be futile and come to an 
end. 

And that child also has his side 
of the village, which has been de- 
rived from the cattle of that 
house ; and if there are no 
cattle of that house, if the father 
has cattle of his own, upon which 
no claim whatever can be made, he 
can enlarge that village by con- 
tinually taking a wife, and de- 
claring her to belong to that side, 
until it becomes a village ; all 
those wives are the heritage of that 
side. 


16 That is, the chief wife of the other side, — the hill. She has the same 
right over cattle formally given to her by her husband as the chief wife has. 


THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


261 


Uma iponsakubusa li pila, in- 
d/ilu-nkulu i fe i pele, kepa ku sale 
noma umfanyana wend/du yoku- 
gcina encinane, iponsakubusa a li 
naku li dAla ifa lend/du-nkulu, i 
se kona indodana yo/dangoti lwa- 
send/du-nkulu. Kodwa uma ku 
nga se ko namunye umfana, ipo- 
nsakubusa li ya 'ku li d/da lonke, 
li nga be li saba iponsakubusa, se 
li ba inkosi kanyekanye, loku 
inkosi i nga se ko. 

Ku njalo ke ukuma kwesitembu. 
Ku njalo ukuma kwendoda en- 
d/dini yayo. 

Kepa izinkomo zikayise wen- 
doda nezendodana z' a/dukene ; 
indodana i ti, izinkomo zikayise 
ezayo, uma uyise e nga se ko ; 
kepa nayo i nazo zayo yodwa ez' a- 
/dukene nezikayise, eya zi piwa 
uyise e se kona. Ngokuba kunjalo 
amadodana a zinge e piwa izinko- 
mo oyise, ai eziningi, i ba nye ; 
kepa y ande, lapa se y andile i nga 
zeka abafazi ababili ngasikati si- 
nye, omunye i zekelwa uyise, uma 
e se kona, omunye owenkomo 
zayo. Nanso ke iii/dangoti ezim- 
bili. 


Labo 'bantwana aba zalwa alabo 
'bafazi ababili, a ba nakubusa 
kanyekanye pakati kwalo 'muzi. 
Owezinkomo zendoda u ya banga 
ubukulu ngokuti, " Kami kwetu 
ngi mkulu, ngokuba umame ka 
tatwanga ngenkomo zakwetu-m- 
kulu." Kepa indodana e unina e 
zekwe ngenkomo zakwabo-mkulu, 
i yona e busayo pakati kwomuzi 
kayise-mkulu, uma ku nga zalwa 
uyise-mkulu omunye o inkosi ; 
uma inkosi kayise-mkulu ku uyise 


If the iponsakubusa live, and 
the chief house come to an end, 
yet if there remain but one little 
boy of the last little house, the 
iponsakubusa cannot inherit the 
property of the chief house, 
whilst there still remains a son of 
the side belonging to the chief 
house. But if there does not sur- 
vive even one boy, the iponsaku- 
busa inherits the whole, and has 
no fear, but is a chief in every re- 
spect, since the real chief is dead. 

Such, then, is the condition of 
polygamy. And such is the posi- 
tion of a husband in his house. 

And the cattle of a man's father 
and his own cattle are distinct ; 
the son says his father's cattle are 
his own when the father is dead ; 
but he too has his own which are 
distinct from those of his father, 
which his father gave him whilst 
living. For it is the custom for 
fathers continually to give cattle 
to their sons ; not many, but one ; 
but that one increases. When it 
has increased the son may marry 
two wives at the same time ; one 
he takes to wife by the cattle of 
his father, if he is still living ; the 
other is the wife of his own cattle. 
There, then, are the two sides. 

The children which are bom 
from those two wives have not 
power throughout the whole vil- 
lage. The child of the father's 
cattle 17 claims superiority, saying, 
" I too in our village am a great 
man, for mother was not taken 
with the cattle of our common 
grandfather." But the son, whose 
mother was taken with the cattle 
of the hereditary estate, is the one 
that has authority in the village of 
the grandfather, if the grandfather 
has not another son who is chief ; 
if the chief of the grandfather is 


17 That is, the iponsakubusa. 


262 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


wale 'ndodana, i yona i busayo 
umtizi wonfce. 

Kepa le e unina a zekwa ngen- 
komo zikayise nje, a i Alai i pakati 
kwomuzi wakwabo-mkulu ; i ya 
puma, i be nomuzi wayo yodvva. 
Kepa noko i pansi kwale eya ze- 
kwa ngenkomo zasend/du-nkulu, i 
ze i fe, auduba le yenkomo zika- 
yise i bu tate 'bukosi uma ku nga 
salanga 'luto lwend/du-nkulu. 

Uma ind/du-nkulu i kipa izin- 
komo zokuzeka umfazi ow elamana 
nayo, ku ti ngamAla lowo 'mfazi e 
zala umntwana wentombi, ka tsho 
ukuti owakwake, u y' azi ukuba 
owasend/du-nkulu, ku buye izin- 
komo a lotsholwa ngazo. Kepa 
m/da intombi le y endako, indo- 
dana yasend/du-nkulu i nga zeka 
ngazo umfazi wayo, noma i m faka 
end/dini yakwabo-ntombi, ngoku- 
tanda kwayo, i ng' enzi ngokuba i 
y' esaba ikcala, y enza ngokuba ku 
umuzi wayo. Njengaloku Uzita 
wa zeka unina kababazeleni ; wa 
ba inkosikazi ; wa zala Ubabaze- 
leni, inkosi yake ; ngemva kwaloku 
izinkomo zakwabo-babazeleni za 
zeka unina kansukuzonke, wa ba 
umnawe kababazeleni Unsuku- 
zonke, ukuze uma Ubabazeleni e 
nga se ko, nenzalo yake i nga se 
ko, ku nga bangwa abantwana ba- 
kazita, kw aziwe ukuba u kona 
Unsukuzonke o nga d/da lelo 'fa, 
ku nga kulumi 'lnuntu, a be u li 
d/da ngakona li lunge naye. Uni- 


tlie father of that son it is he who 
is head of the whole village. 

But he whose mother was taken 
by the cattle of the father, does 
not remain in the village of the 
hereditary estate ; he leaves, and 
has his own village by himself. 
And although he is inferior to him 
whose mother was taken by the 
cattle of the chief house, until he 
dies, yet then he takes the chief 
place, if there is no one remaining 
belonging to the chief house. 

If the chief house takes a 
wife with cattle belonging to it 
which comes next in order after 
itself ; when that wife has a female 
child, she does not say the child 
belongs to her house ; she knows 
it belongs to the chief house, and 
the cattle with which her dowry 
was paid is thus restored. And 
when she is married, the son of 
the chief house can take a wife 
with the cattle which have come 
as her dowry ; and if he places her 
in the kraal as though she had 
been purchased by the cattle of 
the house of the girl by whose 
dowry she has been taken to wife, 
according to his own pleasure, 
he does not thus because he is 
afraid of a lawsuit, but because the 
village is his own. For example, 
Uzita married the mother of Uba- 
bazeleni ; she was the chief wife ; 
she gave birth to Ubabazeleni, 
Uzita's chief son ; after that cattle 
belonging to Ubabazeleni's house 
took to wife the mother of Unsu- 
kuzonke ; Unsukuzonke was Uba- 
bazeleni's brother, that if Ubaba- 
zeleni should die, and his offspring 
should die also, there might be no 
dispute among Uzita's children, 
but it be known that Unsuku- 
zonke would enter on the in- 
heritance, and would enter on it 
with reason, it being his property. 


THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


2G3 


na wa zala intombi ngemva kukan- 
sukuzonke ; ya kula, y' endela 
kmna/danya. Kwa tiwa Uzita, 
" Lo 'mntwana okababazeleni." 
Wa pika Unsukuzonke ngokuti, 
" Umntwana wakwetu a d/di we 
umuntu ngi kona, mina ngi zalwa 
naye nad" Kgaloko ke Uzita wa 
mangala kakuiu ngonsukuzonke, 
wa ti, "Uma u linga ukud/da 
izinkomo zalo 'mntwana, u ya 'ku- 
ba nekcala, ngoknba unyoko n 
zekwe ngenkomo zakwabo-babaze- 
leni ; owa kwabo ; abako aba- 
mu va." W' ala, wa ti, " Kuna- 
loko ukuba umntwana wakwetu a 
dAli we ngi kona, ku/de ngi buyise 
lezo 'nkomo, ngi zid/dele mina." 
W' ala Uzita ngokuti, " Uma u 
kipa lezo 'nkomo, wena ngokwako, 
u ya 'kuba u zikipile wena ebuko- 
sini ; a u sa yi 'kwelamana noba- 
bazeleni ; a ngi sa yi 'ku kw azi 
lapa u ng' owakoiia ; se u ya 'kuba 
umuntu nje o nge nagama kulo 
'mazi. Se u zikipile njalo, a ngi 
sa kw azi mina." 


Wa pika njalo ke, wa za wa 
kginisa ngoku zi kipa izinkomo ; 
wa kitshwa ke ekwelamaneni no- 
babazeleni. Kwa ngeniswa Unsi- 
lane o yena e sesikimd/deni sikan- 
sukuzonke, se ko ze ku kule 
umfana kababazeleni, a m dedele 
ke, a buyele ebunaweni, a be 
umnawe wenkosi. Ku te uma ku 


After Unsukuzonke his mother 
had a girl ; she grew up, and mar- 
ried Umathlanya. Uzita said' 
" The child is Ubabazeleni's." 
Unsukuzonke objected, saying, 
" Shall a child of our house be 
eaten by another whilst I am 
living, I who was born of the same 
mother as she ? " Uzita therefore 
wondered very much at Unsuku- 
zonke, and said to him, " If you 
try to eat the cattle of that child 
you will commit an offence, for 
your mother was taken to wife by 
the cattle of Ubabazeleni's house ; 
this child belongs to his house ; 
those who are born after belong to 
you." Unsukuzonke refused, and 
said, " Rather than that a child of 
our house should be eaten whilst I 
am alive, it is proper that I pay 
back those cattle, and I eat -for 
myself." Uzita would not agree, 
but said, " If you take out ls those 
cattle of your own accord, you will 
take yourself out of the chief- 
place ; you shall no longer come 
next in order after Ubabazeleni ; 
I will no longer know to what 
place you belong ; 10 you shall be 
a mere man without a name in 
this village. You have now taken 
yourself out for ever. I no longer 
know you for my part." 

So Unsukuzonke refused, until 
at length he ended by taking out 
the cattle ; and so he was taken 
out from holding the position 
second to Ubabazeleni. And 
Unsilane was placed in the posi- 
tion of Unsukuzonke, until Uba- 
bazeleni's son should grow up, and 
then he would give place to him 
and return to the position of a 
brother, and be the brother of the 
head of the house. But when 


18 That is, from your own herd, to pay back the dowry of your mother to 
Ubabazeleni. There is a play on the word kipa , " take out," which it appears 
best to preserve in the translation. 

19 That is, I will not acknowledge you as having any position amongst us. 


264 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


bube Ubabazeleni, Umatongo, 
ow' elama Unsukuzonke, wa ko- 
Alwa ukuba umne wabo kade u 
zikipa ebukosini, wa tanda uku- 
ngena a pate umuzi ; kepa amadoda 
a m kumbuza ngokuti, " Wena, 
matongo, ku se nandawo lapa ; u 
kona Unsilane o za 'upata umuzi." 
Wa yeka ke. 

Ku njalo ke abantwana bonke 
baleyo 'nd/du aba zalwa 'muva 
kwaleyo 'ntombi yokuk^ala, aba- 
ntwana bayo leyo 'nd/du. E ku 
pume kuyo intombi a ba sa yi 'ku 
i landela ; se kw anele end/du- 
nk ulu ngentombi leyo. Kodwa 
bona abantwana ba se ifa njalo 
lasend/du-nkulu, uma be file bonke. 
Kodwa uma be se kona, ind/du- 
nkulu a i d/di 'luto lwabo ; ba 
pansi kwayo ngokuba unina u isi- 
tembu sasend/du-nkulu ngezinko- 
mo zasend/du-nkulu. A ku tshiwo 
ukuti, loku izinkomo se za buya, 
a ba se pansi kwend/du-nkulu ; ba 
se njalo, ngokuba uma ind/du-nkulu 
i pela, i bona be nga d/da ifa layo 
lonke. Li d/diwa ilifa ngokula- 
ndelana kwezind/du ekuzekweni. 
A li pambaniswa ukuba li nikwe 
o nge si ye wesitembu sasend/du- 
nkulu, ku ze ku pele bonke aba 
landela ind/du-nkulu ; a li fumane 
ke ukugcina umntwana wokugcina 
o lunge naso isitembu. Uma be 


Ubabazeleni died, Umatongo, who 
was next after Unsukuzonke, for- 
got that long ago his brother took 
himself out of the headship, and 
wished to enter on the government 
of the village ; but the men re- 
minded him, saying, " You, Uma- 
tongo, have no longer any position 
here ; there is Unsilane, who will 
assume the headship of the vil- 
lage." So he yielded. 

So, then, all the children of a 
particular house, which are born 
after the first girl, belong to that 
house. The children from whose 
house a girl has departed, will not 
follow her [to become the property 
of the great house] ; the chief 
house is satisfied with that girl. 
But the children are still the heri- 
tage of the chief house if all the 
heirs of that house die. But if 
they are still living, the chief 
house can touch nothing belonging 
to them ; they are under the chief 
house, because their mother be- 
longs to the polygamic establish- 
ment of the chief house, because 
she was taken to wife by its cattle. 
It is not said, since the cattle 
[with which the mother was taken 
to wife] have now returned to the 
chief house [by the first girl], they 
are no longer under the chief 
house ; they are under it still, for 
if the chief house come to an end, 
it is they who will enter upon the 
whole heritage. The heritage is 
taken in the order of the houses as 
regards the times of marriage. 
The heritage is not allowed to pass 
by any house, so as to be given to 
one who does not belong to the 
polygamic establishment of the 
chief house, until all are dead who 
follow the chief house in order ; 
at last the last male child which 
belongs to the great house enters 
on it. When all are dead who 


THE HERITAGE IN POLYGAMIC HOUSEHOLDS. 


265 


nga se ko bonke abafanele uku li 
d/ila, li d/iliwa ximdeni, ku landwe 
ind/du e be i /din/disana nend/du 
yasend/du-nkulu unia ku /datsliwe 
inkomo. Li njalo ke ukudAliwa 
kwalo. Ifa li landa izind/du zonke 
zangakwabo-lifa. Uma be nga se 
ko bonke aba fanele Iona, iponsa- 
kubusa li li d/de ke ; ngokuba li li 
d/da ngakona ; se kw elalo ilifa ; a 
li sa yi 'kubuzwa 'muntu, ngokuba 
ind/du yonke i pelile ; se li ngena 
ngakona, ngokuba naye uyise wabo 
munye, ka kude nefa likayise. 
Uma ind/du se i pelile, konke se 
ku okwake. 


Futi, ukukitshwa kwomfazi wo- 
kuk^ala ebukosikazini, u kitsbwa 
ngezinto ezimbili, ezona zi fanele 
ukuba a pume ngazo. U kitshwa 
ngokupinga ; uma e pinge e nga 
ka zali umntwana, ku tiwe ka 
fanele ukuba ind/du yake i me 
en/da nomuzi. Ku ti uma e zele 
umfana a kitskwe end/dini esen/da, 
a buyele esangweni noma o/dango- 
tini lwomuzi ; ku pindwe ku fu- 
nwe omunye umfazi o zekwa-'bu- 
tsha, ku nge si bo aba landela o se 
kitshiwe ; a zekwe ke lowo e in- 
tombi ; a tsbelwe lo o pingile, ku 


can properly enter on the heritage, 
it is taken by those who are of 
kin ; 20 the heritage is taken by the 
house which used to participate 21 
with the great house when cattle 
were slaughtered. Such, then, is 
the mode of inheriting. The heri- 
tage falls to all the houses in order 
of their inheritances . 22 If all are 
dead to whom the inheritance be- 
longs, the iponsakubusa takes it, 
for he takes it with good reason ; 
it is now his ; no one will call him 
in question, for the whole house 
has come to an end ; and he takes 
possession with reason, because his 
father and the father of those of 
the chief house was one ; he is not 
far removed from his father's es- 
tate ; when the chief house comes 
to an end, the whole belongs to 
him. 


Further, as regards the ejection 
of the first wife from the chief 
place, she is ejected for two reasons 
for which it is proper that she 
should be ejected. She is ejected 
for adultery ; if she has been 
guilty of adultery before she has 
had a child, it is said that it is not 
proper that her house should stand 
at the head of the village. If she 
has had a boy, she is removed from 
the house at the head of the vil- 
lage, to the gate, or to the side of the 
kraal ; and another wife is sought 
who is a virgin, and not one of 
those who were under her who has 
been ejected ; and so she who is a 
virgin is taken to wife ; and she 
who has been guilty of adultery is 


20 Umdeni , those who are of kin, — those belonging to the polygamic esta- 
blishment of the great house, in the order in which the several wives have been 
taken in marriage. 

21 All the houses under any particular house, whether the great house, or 
the secondary great house, participate in the meat of all cattle slain by any one 
house. 

22 That is, if the chief house fails of heirs, the heritage falls to the second 
house ; if that too fails, it falls to the third, and so on. If all the heirs of the 
great house fail, the next heir is the iponsakubusa. 


266 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


tiwe, " Ngokuba igama lako lobu- 
kulu u li susile, ku za 'uzekwa 
intombi kabani, i me esikundAleni 
sako, i be unina kabani lo," ku 
tshiwo indodana ey aAlukaniswe 
nonina ngokupinga kwake, i nge- 
niswe kwalowo 'mfazi omutsha. 
Urna nembala leso 'sikund/da sake 
'emi ka/de kuso, u yena o inkosi- 
kazi impela; u yena e se unina 
womfana lowo o kitshwe kunina. 
Nabantwana aba zalwa u lowo 
'mfazi o ngenisiwe a ba busi ; ba 
landela inkosana le e ngeniswe 
kwake ; umntwana wokuk^ala wa- 
lo 'mfazi u yena e ya 'kwelamana 
uenkosana le ; ku ti nezinto za- 
kwabo zi tatwe kwabo, zi ngeniswe 
kule ind/du-nkulu, zi landele um- 
fana lapa i ye kona ; ku sale izin- 
twana nje lapaya kwabo okudala 
ezi lingene ukupilisa unina. 


Ku /daliwe ke ngaloko, se kw a- 
ziwa ukuba wa kitshwa njalo, 
'eme lo omutsha a be inkosikazi. 
TJma e lungile, lo 'mntwana e m 
bambisisa kakulu, a koAlwe unina 
Iowa, a zinge e se hambela nje 
kunina lapaya, e nga se jwayele 
kakulu, e se jwayele lapa kwabo. 
Ku njalo ke ukukitshwa kwake. 


Futi u kitshwa uma e nga b' azi 
abantu basemizini ; ngokuba kwa- 
bamnyama ind/du e sen/da i yona 
ku ind/du yezihambi zom/daba 
wonke, zi patwe ka/de kuleyo 'n- 
d/du, ngokuba ukupata abantu 
basemizini ikcala lenkosikazi ya- 
lowo 'muzi. Uku ba pata, si tsho 
uku ba pa ukud/da, a nga katali 


told, " Since you have destroyed 
your great name, the daughter of 
So-and-so will be taken to wife and 
fill your place, and become the 
mother of So-and-so," that is, the 
heir, the son who is separated 
from the mother on account of her 
offence, and placed with the new 
wife. If, then, she fills well that 
office, it is she who is the chief 
wife indeed ; it is she who is the 
mother of the youth who has been 
taken away from his mother. 
And the children of the new wife 
are not chief ; they come in order 
after the young chief who has been 
introduced into her house ; the 
first child of this wife comes next 
in order after the young chief ; and 
the property of his house is taken 
from his mother's house, and is 
taken to the chief house ; it follows 
the boy to the place where he 
goes ; there is left behind in the 
old house 23 only such little things 
as are necessary for his mother's 
existence. 

So they settle down as regards 
that matter, it being now known 
that she was ejected for ever, and 
that the new wife is established as 
chief. If she is a good woman 
and treats the boy with the great- 
est care, he forgets his real mother, 
and habitually goes to the new 
mother, no longer using himself to 
the real mother, but now using 
himself to the house of the new 
chief wife. 

And she is ejected if she does 
not know strangers : for among 
black men the head house is that 
to which strangers from all parts 
go, and are treated well there ; for 
the treatment of strangers is an 
obligation resting on the chief wife 
of the village. When we say to 
treat them, we mean to give them 


2a The old house, — the house of the displaced chief wife. 


UXTHLANGUNTHLANGU. 


2G7 


uku ba pata ; uku nga b' azi uku- 
ba a ba ncitshe ukudAla, a ku 
landule, noma ku kona a ku fiAle, 
a ku d/de ngasese kwabo ; a ba 
tetise, a ba kipe ngolaka. Lowo 
'mfazi kwiti u ya puma ; ka fanele 
ukutwala umuzi ; u fanele 'euke a 
buyele esangweni, ku ngene ona- 
mandAla okuma ka Ale kuleso 'si- 
kundAla. I loko ke ukukipa 
umfazi ebukosikazini. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


food, and to give it without weari- 
ness ; not to know them is that 
she should grudge them food, de- 
nying that she has any, and if 
there is any, concealing it, and 
eating it secretly unknown to 
them ; scolding them, and turning 
them out of her house in anger. 
Among us such a wife goes out ; 
she is not tit to bear the village ; 
it is proper that she go lower and 
take her position at the entrance ; 
and another take her place, who is 
able to fill it aright. Such, then, 
is the ejection of a wife from the 
chief place. Such, then, is her 
expulsion. 


UNTHLANGUNTHLANGU . 24 


All the wives of the king have children except the chief wife. 


Kw' esukela, inkosi ya tat' abafazi. 
Ya ti, " Okabani u ya 'kuzala in- 
kosi." Ba mita ; za pela izinya- 
nga, sa fika isikati sokubeleta, ba 
baleta. Wa salela o mit* inkosi e 
se miti. Ba kula abantwana, ba 
hamba, ba suswa emabeleni. Ba 
pinda b' emita ; za pela izinyanga, 
sa fika isikati sokubeleta, ba be- 
leta. Ba kula abantwana, ba su- 
swa emabeleni, ba kula, ba za ba 
ba 'zinsizwa, e nga ka beleti. 


It is said in children's tales that a 
king took several wives. He said, 
" The child of So-and-so 25 shall be 
mother of the future sovereign." 
They became pregnant ; their 
months were completed ; the time 
of childbirth arrived, they had 
children. But she who was to be 
the mother of the future sovereign 
remained still pregnant. The 
children grew, they walked, they 
were weaned. Again the wives 
became pregnant ; their months 
were completed, the time of child- 
birth arrived, they had children. 
The children grew, they were 
weaned ; they grew until they 
were young men, the chief wife 
not having as yet given birth to a 
child. 


24 Unthlangunthlangu , One who, when charged with an offence, denies every 
thing in the charge. Umuntu o zihlanguzayo , One who excuses himself. 

25 Okabani. — It is the custom of persons who are not related to call married 
women by the names of their respective parents, and not by their proper 
names. 


2G8 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


The chip/ wife gives birth to a snake. 


Kwa pela iminyaka eminingi ; 
wa za wa ka:atuka ; wa beleta ; ba 
butana abafazi, ba ti, " U zele in- 
yoka." Ya puma amasuku ama- 
liiugi, i nga peli esiswini ; ya 
gc'wal' indAlu. Ba baleka, b' e- 
m' emnyango. Ba memez' abantu, 
ba ti, " Ake ni zo'ubona umAlola." 
Kwa butan' isizwe : ba memeza 
kuyena, ba t' " I sa puma ini esi- 
swini na ] " Wa ti, " I sa puma." 
Ya ti inkosi, "A kw alukwe in- 
tambo." Wa ti, " Se i pelile." 


Many years passed away ; at 
length the skin of the abdomen 
peeled off ; 23 she was taken in 
labour ; the women assembled and 
said, " She has given birth to a 
snake." The snake took many 
days in the birth, and filled the 
house. They fled, and stood at the 
doorway; they called the people 
to come and see the prodigy. The 
nation assembled. They shouted 
to her, and enquired if the snake 
was still in the birth. She replied 
that it was still in the birth. The 
king told them to make a rope. 
At length she said, " The snake is 
now born." 


The snake is cast into a pool. 


Kwa ngeniswa umuntu ; ba m 
nikela umgodo, ba ti, ka peny' i- 
kanda. Wa li peny' ikanda, wa 
Alangana nalo ; ba m ponsela in- 
tambo, wa i bop' entanyeni, wa 
puma nayo. Ba wisa iguma lwa- 
kwabo, ba ti, " Inyoka ni na 1 " 
Ba ti, " In/dwatu." Kwa funwa 
isiziba, ba i hhudula abantu aba- 
ningi, ba i pons' emanzini. Ba 
geza imizimba, ba kupuka, ba fika 
ekaya. 


A man was made to enter the 
house ; they gave him a pole, and 
told him to turn the snake over 
till he found its head. He turned 
it over and over till he found the 
head ; they threw him the rope ; 
he fastened it on the neck, and 
went out with it. They broke 
down the enclosure 27 in front of 
the house. They asked, " What 
snake is it h " They replied, " A 
boa constrictor." They found a 
pool, and many people dragged the 
snake along, and threw it into the 
water. They washed their bodies, 28 
and again went up to their home. 


26 The natives believe in foetus serotinus, that gestation may exceed the usual 
number of months or 280 days. When this is the case, they imagine that the 
skin of the abdomen presents a peculiar appearance, here called ukukxatuka, 
to peel or cast off as a snake does its skin. When therefore they say that a 
woman thus casts off the skin (viz., epidermis) of the abdomen, they mean that 
it is a prolonged gestation, and that she has passed beyond the natural period. 

27 The enclosure here spoken of is a small enclosure, generally made of 
reeds, made in front of the doorway to shield the house from the wind. 

28 They wash their bodies to get rid of the supposed evil influence which 
would arise from touching the snake, which they regard as an umhlola, a pro- 
digy, or evil omen. 


1 T NTHLANGUNTHLANGU. 


269 


The king and hie people fly from the place , leaving the mother of the 

snake behind. 


Inkosi ya ti, " A ku balekwe." 
Kwa tiwa, " Ka sale unina wayo ; 
u zeV umlingo." Ba muka, ba 
blieka kwelinye ilizwe. Kw' aki- 
wa ; za pela izindAlu. Ba kula 
kakulu abantwana, ba za ba tata 
abafazi. Z' enda izintombi ez' e- 
lama labo 'bafana. Kwa za kw' e- 
ndiswa abanta babo. 


A fter many years 

Wa hamba unina wenyoka ; wa 
Alangana nabantu ; ba buza ba ti, 
" U ya ngapi ? " Wa ti, " Ngi 
landela inkosi." Ba ti, " U ini 
nayo?" Wa ti, "Kg' umyeni 
wami." Ba ti, " Wa u sele pi ? " 
Wa ti, " Ya ngi shiya enriweni." 
Ba ti, "Wav one ngani? " Wa 
ti, " Ng' ona ngokuzala isilwane." 
Ba ti, "Isilwane sini?" Wa ti, 
" InAlwatu. Nga i mita iminyaka 
eminingi." Ba ti, " Ya bekwa 
pi % " Wa ti, " Ya laAlwa emanzi- 
ni. Ba baleka, ba ti, ngi nom/dola, 
ngi zele isilwane." 


She reaches th 

Wa hamba wa buza emzini, wa 
ti, " UnAlangunAlangu w ake pi?" 
Ba m yalela umfula. Wa hamba, 


The king gave directions for 
them to fly from that place, but 
said, " Let the mother of the snake 
remain ; she has given birth to a 
monster." They departed, and 
went to another country. They 
completed the building of their 
houses. The children grew up, 
and took to themselves wives ; and 
the girls, who were bom after the 
boys, were married also. And at 
length their children were married. 

she follows them. 

The mother of the snake set 
out ; she met with some people. 
They enquired where she was 
going. She replied, " I am follow- 
ing the king." They said, " What 
connection have you with him ? " 
She answered, " He is my hus- 
band." They asked, " Where 
have you been staying?" She 
said, " He left me at our old vil- 
lage." They said, " What offence 
had you been guilty of ? " She 
said, " My offence was that of 
having given birth to a beast." 
They asked, " What beast ?" She 
replied, "A boa constrictor. I 
was pregnant with it for many 
years." They asked where it was 
placed. She said, " It was cast 
into the water. And the people 
fled ; and said there was a prodigy 
with me, for I had given birth to 
a beast." 

king's village. 

She went and enquired in a 
village where Unthlangunthlangu 
lived. They told her the name of 
the river on which he had built. 


270 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


wa fika kona ; \va m bona umfana, 
wa ti, " Nang' okabani e fika." 
W a ngena endAlini e sesangweni. 
Wa m bingelela umninindAlu ; wa 
m buza wa ti, " Se kwa ba njani 
esiswini?" Wa ti, "Ku polile." 
Wa ti, " Be ngi buza ngi ti lo kwa 
ku Aiezi isilwane na." Wa ti, 
" Ku lungile nje." Wa ti, " In- 
kosi ya ti ni ngami na ? " Wa ti, 
" Ku ya /dekwa. Ba ti, ' Lo wa 
fa, i ya jabula inkosi.' Ba ti, 
' W' enz' a shiywe emciweni, kona 
e pililc. Wa e ya 'kuzala oniunye 
umAlola futi.' " 


The king summons 

Wa puma umfazi o /dezi kwake, 
wa ngena enkosini ; wa fik' inkosi 
i lele. Wa buza kumntwana, wa 
ti, " Inkosi i lele na ? " Ya ti, 
" Ngi bekile." Wa ti, " Nang' u- 
nina wenyoka e fika." Ya vuka 
inkosi, ya Alala, ya ti, " U puma 
pi?" Wa ti, "U ti u puma 
eniciweni." Kwa tiwa, " Hamba 
u m bize." Wa puma, wa m biza, 
w' eza naye, wa ngena endAlini." 
Ya ti, "Sa ku bona." Wa vuma. 
Ya ti, " Ku njani esiswini ?" Wa 
ti, " Ku polile." 


She is jeered for 

Wa Alala, wa piwa ukudAla, wa 
ku dAla. Ba ti, " U nga b' u sa 
kuluma naye, u fun' 'engeze oniu- 


She set out and reached the place. 
A boy saw her and said, " There 
is the daughter of So-and-so com- 
ing." She went into the house at 
the gateway. She saluted the 
owner of the house, who asked 
after her health. She told her she 
was quite well. The other said, 
" I was asking because there used 
to be a beast within you." She 
replied, " It is entirely right." 
She asked, " What does the king 
say about me ?" She replied, " He 
laughs ; they said, ' The king is 
happy because she is dead ; ' they 
said, he would have done well in 
leaving her at the old village even 
though she had got well. She 
would again give birth to another 
prodigy." 

her to his presence. 

The woman in whose house she 
was went out and entered the 
king's house ; when she arrived, 
the king was lying down. She 
enquired of a child if the king was 
asleep. The king replied, " I am 
lying down." She said, " There is 
the mother of the snake come." 
The king sat up and asked, 
" Whence has she come ? " She 
replied, " She says she comes from 
the old village." He told her to 
go and call her. She went and 
called her ; she returned with her 
and entered the house. He sa- 
luted her, and she returned the 
salutation. He asked after her 
health. She replied she was quite 
well. 

her misfortune . 

She remained ; she was given 
food ; she ate. The people said to 
the king, " Do not be any longer 
talking with her ; it may be she 


UXTIILANGUNTHLANGU. 


271 


nye nm/Jola." Ba m akel' ind/du ; 
ba i bek' esangweni. Wa Alala 
kona. Wa kccabana nabanye aba- 
fazi. Ba ti, " U zigabisa ngokub' u 
ini ? loku wa zala isilwane nje ? " 
Wa jaba ke. "Kwa ku tiwa u 
za 'uzala inkos', i buse abantwana 
betu. U s' u inja manje. U nga 
b' u sa si kulumisa tina. Tina si 
zele umuzi. Wena u inja nje. A 
u buyeli ini esizibeni, lapa ku hlezi 
umiitanako na?" Wa ti, " ISTi ya 
ngi Aleka ini? " Ba ti, " Si bona 
u si iikela ngobugagu." Wa tula. 


will add another prodigy to the 
first." They built her a house 
near the gateway ; she dwelt there. 
She quarrelled with the other 
women. They asked, " What are 
you, that you exalt yourself? Is 
it because you gave birth to a 
beast ?" 29 So she was ashamed. 
They said, " It used to be said that 
your child should be king, and 
rule over our children. You are 
now a dog. Be not making us 
talk for ever. We have given 
birth to this village. You are a 
mere dog. Why do you not go 
back again to the pool, where your 
child lives ? " She said, " Why 
do you laugh at me ? " They re- 
plied, " Because we see that you 
come to us with boasting." She 
1 was silent. 


The king mediates , and she humbles herself. 


Ya ti inkosi, " Mu yeke ni. 
Nga ngi ti u ya 'u ngi zalela in- 
kosi. Wa zala umlingo. Musa 
ni uku m Aleka ngawo. Naye ka 


The king said, " Leave her 
alone. I used to think she would 
give me a child who should be 
king. She gave birth to a moil- 
ster. Leave olf laughing at her 
on that account. She too did not 


29 The notion so common in Zulu tales of women giving birth to animals 
has probably some connection with the curious custom called "Roondah," 
among the Western coast negroes ; it appears to be something like the Taboo of 
the Polynesians, that is, it is a system of prohibition relating to certain articles 
of food. It is thus spoken of by Du Chaillu : — 

"It is roondah for me," he replied. And then, in answer to my question, 
explained that the meat of the Bos brachiche'ros was forbidden to his family, 
and was an abomination to them, for the reason that many generations ago one 
of their women gave birth to a calf instead of a child. 

I laughed ; but the king replied very soberly that he could show me a wo- 
man of another family whose grandmother had given birth to a crocodile — for 
which reason the crocodile was roondah to that family. 

Quengeza would never touch my salt-beef, nor even the pork, fearing lest 
it had been in contact with the beef. Indeed they are all religiously scrupulous 
in this matter ; and I found, on inquiry afterwards, that scarce a man can be 
found to whom some article of food is not "roondah." Some dare not taste 
crocodile, some hippopotamus, some monkey, some boa, some wild pig, and all 
from this same belief. They will literally suffer the pangs of starvation rather 
than break through this prejudice ; and they very firmly believe that if one of 
a family should eat of such forbidden food, the women of the same family 
would surely miscarry and give birth to monstrosities in the shape of the ani- 
mal which is roondah, or else die of an awful disease. ( Op. cit., p. 'SOS.) See 
Appendix (A). 


272 


1ZIHGANEKWANE. 


zenzanga." Ba ti, " U ini po ki- 
tina? Ka tule ke, a nga be e sa 
kuluma, loku e se za 'kuzenza in- 
kosi, ngokuba wa zala inyoka." 
Wa ti, " Ngi yeke ni ; a ngi se yi 
'kupinda. Se ngi bonile uba ni 
ngi tolile ngaloko, ngokuba nga 
zala isilwane. Ba tula. 


Ten children com 

Ya /Jala inyoka emanzini. Wa 
/Juba umntwana isikumba senyo- 
ka ; o pambili wa veza isandAla, e 
umfana ; wa susa isikumba senyo- 
ka. Kwa vela abantu abaningi, 
be landelene ngokwelamana. Ba 
k^ed' ukuzala kukanina. W a ku- 
luma UnAlatu- yesiziba, wa ti, 
" Ntombintombi, si y' elamana." 
Ba /Jala kona esizibeni. Wa ti, 
" A si pume, si kupukele ngapezu- 
lu." Ba puma emanzini. Wa ti, 
" A si kgnnd' ekaya." Ba ishumi 
— abafana ba i si/Jan u, izintombi 
za isi/Janu futi. 


make herself." They replied, 
"What is she to us then? Just 
let her hold her tongue, and speak 
to us no more, (since she will 
make herself chief,) for she gave 
birth to a snake." She said, 
"Leave me alone. I will say no- 
thing more. I now see that you 
have taken me as a dependent into 
your village, because I gave birth 
to a beast." They were silent. 

out of the snake. 

The snake lived in the water. 
The child which was in front of 
the rest turned aside the snake's 
skin ; it was a boy ; he put out his 
hand and took away the snake's 
skin. There appeared many chil- 
dren, who followed each other in 
order. They were all the children 
their mother bore. U nthlatu-ye- 
siziba 30 spoke, saying, " Ntombi- 
ntombi , 31 we are brother and 
sister." They remained there in 
the pool. He said, " Let us go 
out, and go up to the land." They 
went out of the water. He said, 
" Let us go towards our home." 
There were ten children — five boys 
and five girls. 


They obtain oxen , and set out in search of their mother. 


Ba k^onda enxiweni. Ba ti, 
"A si fune amatambo ezinkabi." 
Ba tola amatambo a ishumi. Ba 
ti, "A si wa lungise, si w' enze 
izinkabi." Ba wa beka 'ndawo 
nye, ba vusa izinkabi. Ba ti, "A 
si kwelele." Ekan/Jatu-yesiziba 
kwa ba Umpengempe. Wa ku- 


They went to the old village. 
They said, " Let us look for the 
bones of oxen." They found ten 
bones. They said, " Let us pre- 
pare them, and make oxen of 
them." They placed the bones 
together ; they brought the oxen 
to life again ; they said, " Let us 
mount on them." The name of the 
ox of Unthlatu-yesiziba was Um- 
pengempe . 32 He spoke, saying, 


30 Unthlatu-yesiziba , Boa-of-the-pool. 

31 Untombintombi . — The reduplication of intombi in this proper name ia to 
be understood as intended to magnify the sister ; or, as the native says, to mean 
that she is not a damsel " by once, but by twice." It may be represented by 
" Damsel-of-a-damsel." 

32 Umpengempe , a perfectly white bullock. 


UNTHLANGUNTHLANGU. 


273 


luma, \va ti, " Kala kanjalo ke, 
mpengempe. Si fun' umame. Wa 
zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 'm/daba, sa 
kula. Si ug' abakalub.undubundu- 
a-ba-lu-vume." Ba hamba bonke, 
be kwele ezinkabini. Ba d/dula 
emzini. 


They enquire at a milage. The 

Ya ti inkosi Un/datu-yesiziba, 
ya ti, "A. si buye ; a si s' uku- 
d/dula umuzi." Ya kala inkomo. 
Wa ti, "Kala kanjalo ke, mpe- 
ngempe. Si fun' umarne. Wa 
zala wa shiya • sa d/da 'm/daba, sa 
kula. Si ug' abakalubundubundu- 
a-ba-lu-Yume.' , Ba ti, " D/dulela 
ni pambili." 


They enquire at another vii 


" Umpengempe, cry after your 
usual manner. We are seeking 
for our mother. She gave birth to 
us only ; she did not nourish us ; 
we ate earth ancfgrew ; we are the 
children of Ulubundubundu-a-ba- 
lu-vume ." 33 They all set out, 
having mounted on the oxen. 
They passed a village. 

people tell them to go forward. 

Unthlatu-yesiziba, the king, 
said, " Let us go back again ; let 
us not pass a village." The ox 
cried. He said, " Cry, Umpenge- 
mpe, after your usual manner. 
We are seeking for our mother. 
She gave birth to us only ; she did 
not nourish us ; we ate earth and 
grew ; we are the children of Ulu- 
bundubundu-a-ba-lu-vume. " The 
people said, " Go forward." 

% and are told to go forward. 


Ba hamba, ba fik' emzini. Ba 
finyana zi buyile inkomo. Wa i 
tshaya udade wabo inkabi. Wa 
ti, " Kala kanjalo. Si fun' uma- 
me. Wa zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 
'm/daba, sa kula. Si ng' abakalu- 
bundubundu-a-ba-lu-vume. " Ba 

ti, " D/dulela ni pambili." 


They went forward and came to 
a village. They found the cattle 
come back from the pasture. His 
sister struck her ox, and said, 
" Cry after your usual manner. 
We are seeking for our mother. 
She gave birth to us only ; she did 
not nourish us ; we ate earth and 
grew ; we are the children of Ulu- 
bundubund u-a-ba-lu-vume. " They 
said, " Go forward." 


They reach Umkuzangwe' s village , and are told to go forward. 


Ba fik' emculumeni likamlcuza- 
.ngwe. Ba ti, "Ni ng' abakabani 
na 1 ?" Ba ti, "Si ng' abakan/da- 
ngunAlangu." Ba ti, " Na sala pi 


They came to the large village 
of Umkuzangwe . 34 They asked 
them whose children they were. 
They told them they were the 
children of Untklansmthlanou. 

o o 

They said, " Where have you 


33 Ulubundubundu-a-ba-lu-vume . — Ulubundubundu is anything that is well 
mixed so as to be free from lumps, &c. , as morter, or arrowroot. The meaning 
of the name therefore is, She-is-a-well-ordered-woman, -let-all-approve-of-her. 

34 Umkuzangwe , He who drives away leopards by shouting. 


IZIXGAXEKWAXE. 


274 


na 1 " Ba ti, " Sa sala emanzini." 
Ba i tshay' inkabi. Ba ti, " Kala 
kanjalo ke, mpengempe. Si fun' li- 
ma. Wa zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 
'm/daba, sa kula. Si ng' abakalu- 
bun dubu n d u-a-ba-lu-v u me. " Ba 

ti, " Si fun' umame. Wa zala wa 
sliij'a ; sa d/da 'm/daba, sa kula." 
Ba ti, " D/dulela ni pambili." 


staid ? " They said, " Wc staid in 
the water." They struck the ox, 
and said, " Cry, Umpengempe, 
after your usual manner. We 
are seeking our mother. She gave 
birth to us only ; she did not 
nourish us ; we ate earth and 
grew. We are the children of 
Ulubundubundu- a-ba - lu - vume." 
They said, "We are seeking our 
mother. She gave birth to us 
only ; she did not nourish us ; avC 
ate earth, and grew up." They 
said, " Go forward." 


They arrive at their grandmother' s village. 


Ba fika emzini lapa ku zalwa 
unina ; b' em' esangweni ; ba i 
tshay' inkabi, ba ti, " Kala ka- 
njalo, mpengempe. Si fun' uma- 
me. Wa zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 
'm/daba, sa kula. Si ng' abakalu- 
1 nindubundu-a-ba-lu - vume. " Sa 

puma isalukazi end/dini, sa ti, 
" Ni ya ku zwa loku na 1 Ungani 
umntanami wa zala isilwane na, sa 
shiywa?" Kwa tivva, "I pinde 
ni, ni tshaye." Ba i tshaya, ba ti, 
" Kala kanjalo ke, mpengempe. 
Si fun' uma. Wa zala wa shiya ; 
sa dAla 'm/daba, sa kula. Si ng' a- 
bakalubundubundu-a-ba-lu- vume. " 


Their grandmother 


They came to the village where 
their mother was born ; they stood 
at the gateway ; they smote the ox 
and said, " Cry, Umpengempe, 
after your usual manner. W e are 
seeking our mother. She gave 
birth to us only ; she did not nou- 
rish us ; we ate earth and grew. 
W e are the children of Ulubundu- 
bundu-a-ba-lu-vume." An. old 
woman came out of the house and 
said, " Do you hear that 1 Did 
not my child give birth to a beast, 
which was cast out ? " They said, 
" Strike the ox again." They 
struck it and said, " Cry then, 
Umpengempe, after your usual 
manner. We are seeking our mo- 
ther. She gave birth to us only ; 
she did not nourish us ; we ate 
earth and grew. We are the 
children of Ulubundubundu-a-ba- 
lu-vume." 

acknowledges them. 


Kwa tiwa, " Ye/dikela ni pa- 
nsi," B' en^aba. Kwa nyandwa 
izinkomo ; kwa tatwa inkabi ezim- 
bili ; kwa buzwa, kwa tiwa, " Ni 
ng' abakabani V Ba ti, " Si ng' a- 


They told them to get down 
from the oxen. They refused. 
They fetched the cattle ; they se- 
lected two oxen, 35 and asked them 
saying, " Whose children are you 1 ?" 


38 This is for the purpose of inducing them to dismount. See Note 97, p* 
247. 


UNTHLANGUNTHLANGU. 


275 


bakan/dangun/dangu. '' Kwa ti- 
wa, "Na sala pi ua?" Ba ti, 
" TJmame wa e zele inyoka. Kwa 
tiwa, a i la/dwe. Umame wa 
shiywa enrriweni. Kwa tiwa, u 
ya 'ubuye a zale omunye um/dola. 
Kwa banjwa, wa sliiywa." Kwa 
buzwa, kwa tiwa, " Unyoko u za- 
lwa intombi yapi na?" Wa ti, 
" Kalubundubundu-a-ba-lu-vume." 
Wa vela uninakulu, wa ti, " Ng' o- 
warni ke lo 'mutwana owa zal' in- 
yoka, e kwa ku tiwa, ' U ya 'uza- 
F inkosi.' Wa zaF isilwane. Ba 
m shiya." 


They set out with their grandmotlu 

Kwa /datshwa izinkabi eziningi ; 
kwa butw' abantu ; kwa tiwa, 
" Ake ni ze 'kubona abantwana 
aba puma enyokeni." Kwa tiwa, 
"A ba k^utsliwe." Ba k^utshwa. 
Ba Alan gan a nabantu. Ba ti aba- 
ntu, " Laba 'bantwana abakabani 
na ? " Kwa tiwa, " Abakan/da- 
ngun/dangu." Ba d/dula. Ba 
/dangana nabantu. Ba ti, " Laba 
'bantwana ng' abakabani na ? " 
Ba hamba nesalukazi esi zal' uni- 
na. Kwa tiwa, " Ba be Alezi pi 
na ? " Kwa tiwa, " Ba be Alezi 
esizibeni." Kwa tiwa, "Ba be 
/dalele ni na ? " Kwa tiwa, " Ba 
be inyoka." Ba ti, "I bo Un/da- 
ngun/dangu a e ba tsho, e ti ba 
penduka izilwane na ? " Ba ba 
kornbis' umuzi kan/dangun/dangu. 
Ba k^onda kuwo. Ba fik' ekaya. 
Kwa tiwa, " Ake ni pume ni bone 


They said, "We are the children 
of Unthlangunthlangu." They 
said, " Where have you staid ? " 
They said, " Our mother had given 
birth to a* snake. The king com- 
manded it to be cast away. Our 
mother was left at the old village, 
for they said, ' She will give birth 
to another monster.' The king 
and his people set out, and she was 
left behind." They asked, " In 
what nation was your mother 
born ? " They said, " In that of 
Ulubundubundu - a - ba-lu-vume." 
Their grandmother stood forth and 
said, " She who gave birth to a 
snake is my child ; of whom it 
was said, ' Her child shall be king.' 
She gave birth to a snake. And 
they forsook her." 

r, and reach their father's village. 

Many cattle were slaughtered ; 
the people were assembled ; they 
said, " Just come and see the 
children who came out of the 
snake." They said, " Let them be 
directed on their way." They 
were directed. They met with 
some people who said, " Whose 
children are these ? " They re- 
plied, " Unthlanguntlilangu's. " 
They w r ent forward. They met 
other people, who asked whose 
cliildren they were. They went 
with the old woman, their mo- 
ther's mother. They asked, "Where 
did they live ? " They answered, 
" In a pool." They asked, " Why 
did they live there ? " They an- 
swered, " They were a snake." 
They asked, " Is it they whom 
Unthlangunthlangu used to say 
became beasts ? " They pointed 
out to them the village of Unthla- 
ngunthlangu. They went to it. 
They reached their home. The 
people said, " Just come out and 


27G 


IZINGAXEKWANE. 


abant' aba/de. Kungati ba zalwa 
'muntu munye." B' em' esangwe- 
ni. Wa pum' unina. Ba i tsha- 
y' inkabi, ba ti, " Kala kanjalo ke, 
mpengempe. Si fun' uma. Wa 
zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 'm/daba, sa 
kula. Si ng' abakalubundubundu- 
a-ba-lu-vume." 


Their mother 

Wa kal' unina, wa ti, "Laba 
'bantu ba ya ngi dabula." Wa ti, 
" Ungati ba tsho kimi ; ba za ba 
pata nebizo likamame." Kwa ti- 
wa, "I pinde ni." Ba i tshaya, 
ba ti, " Kala kanjalo ke, mpenge- 
mpe. Si fun' uraame. Wa zala 
wa shiya ; sa d/da 'm/daba, sa ku- 
la. Si ng' abakalubundubundu-a- 
ba-lu-vume." 


Kwa butw' abantu, kwa bizwa 
inkosi, kwa tiwa, ake i ze 'kubona. 
Ya fik' inkosi, ya Alala pansi. Ba 
ti, " I ti inkosi, ake ni i tshaye." 
Ya kala. Ba ti, " Kala kanjalo 
ke, mpengempe. Si fun' uma. 
Wa zala wa shiya ; sa d/da 'm/da- 
ba, sa kula. Si ng' abakalubundu- 
bundu-a-ba-lu-vunie. " 


see these beautiful people. They 
appear to be the children of one 
man." They stood at the gateway. 
The mother went out. They 
struck the ox and said, " Cry, 
Umpengempe, after your usual 
manner. We are seeking our mo- 
ther ; she gave birth to us only ; 
she did not nourish us ; we ate 
earth and grew. We are the chil- 
dren of Ulubundubundu-a-ba-lu- 
vume." 

?¦ cognises them. 

The mother cried saying, " These 
people distress me. It is as if they 
spoke to me ; and they mention 
the name too of my mother." 
They said, " Strike it again." 
They struck it again and said, 
" Cry then, Umpengempe, after 
your usual manner. We are seek- 
ing our mother ; she gave birth to 
us only ; she did not nourish us ; 
we ate earth and grew. We are 
the children of Ulubundubundu- 
a-ba-lu-vume." 

The people were assembled, and 
the king was called to come and 
see. The king came, and sat on 
the ground. They said, "The 
king commands you to smite the 
ox." The ox cried ; they said, 
" Cry then, Umpengempe, after 
your usual manner. We are seek- 
ing our mother ; she gave birth to 
us only ; she did not nourish us ; 
we ate earth and grew. We are 
the children of Ulubundubundu- 
a-ba-lu-vume." 


Their father makes many enquiries of their grandmother. 


Kwa buzwa kuninakulu, kwa 
tiwa, " Laba 'bantu u hamba nabo 
nje, u ba tata pi 1" Wa ti, " Ba 


They said to the grandmother, 
" Since you go with these people, 
where did you find them 1 " She 
said, " They have just come to me, 


UNTHLANGUN THLAN G U. 


277 


fikile, be ti, ba Vela pi. Ba ti, ba 
vela esizibeni. Kwa tiwa, esizi- 
beni ba be fakwe ini ? Ba ti, 
' Kwa ku inyoka.' Ba ti, ' Uyise 
wayo kwa ku ubani ? ' Ba ti, 
' U n/dangun/dangu. ' Ba ti, 'Na 
bona ini uba na ni inyoka na ? ' 
Ba ti, 'Sabona.' Ba ti, 'Ni za- 
lwa kamabani na ? ' Ba ti, ' Si 
zalwa okabani.' Kwa tiwa, ' Ye- 
/dika ni enkabini.* B' en^aba." 


The king asks the 

I ti inkosi, "Ni k^onda ka/de 
ini ukuba ng' uyi/do wenu Un/da- 
ngun/dangu na ? " Ba ti, " Si 
k^onda ka/de." Ba ti, "A ba ko 
ini abantwana abanye kunyoko 
na ? " Ba ti, " A ba ko." Ba ti, 
" Unyoko ukuzala kangaki na?" 
Ba ti, " Ukuzala kanye ; wa zala 
inyoka." Ba ti, " Inyoka inyoka 
ni na?" Ba ti, " In/datu." Ba 
ti, " Ya zalwa ya bekwa pi na ? " 
Ba ti, " Ya zalwa ya ponswa esizi- 
beni." Ba ti, " Inyanga zayo zi- 
ngaki i mitwe na ? " Ba ti, 
" Iminyaka eminingi." Ba ti, 
" Wa e nga miti nabantu unyoko 
na?" Ba ti, "Wa e miti naba- 
ntu ; ba za ba zaja, ba m sliiya. 
Ba za ba buya, ba pinda b' emita 
okunye ; ba buya ba m sliiya. Ba 
za ba zala kaningi, e sa miti uma- 
me. Wa za wa ka-atuka, wa zala 
in/datu. Ya zalwa insuku ezi- 


and when the people asked whence 
they came, they said they came 
from a pool. The people asked if 
they had been placed in the pool. 
They said, ' It was a snake that 
was put into the pool.' They said, 

' Who was the snake's father ? ' 
They said, ' Unthlangunthlangu.' 
They said, ' Did you see that you 
were a snake ? ' They said, ' We 
saw.' They said, 'Who is your 
mother ?' They said, ' The daugh- 
ter of So-and-so.' They were told 
to come down from the ox. They 
refused." 

i many questions. 

They said, " The king asks, 
' Do you understand fully that 
Unthlangunthlangu is your fa- 
ther?"' They answered, "We 
fully understand." They said, 
" Has your mother no other chil- 
dren ? " They replied, " She has 
none." They said, " How many 
times did your mother give birth?" 
They said, " Once only ; she gave 
birth to a snake." They said, 
"What snake was it?" They 
said, "A boa." They said, " When 
it was born, where did they put 
it ? " They said, " When it was 
born, they cast it into a pool." 
They asked, " How many months 
was the woman pregnant with the 
snake ? " They said, " Many 
years." They said, " Was not 
your mother pregnant at the same 
time as others ?" They said, " She 
was pregnant at the same time as 
others ; at length they had chil- 
dren, and left her still pregnant. 
At length they became pregnant 
again ; again they left her preg- 
nant. At length they gave birth 
to many children, our mother 
being still pregnant ; at length the 
skin of her abdomen peeled off, 
and she gave birth to a boa; it 


278 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ningi ; ya gcwal' ind/du, ba pumela 
pand/de abesifazana. Kwa menye- 
zwa, kwa tiwa, ' U s' ezwa na ? ' 
Wa ti, ' Ngi s' ezwa.' Kwa tiwa, 
' A i ka peli 11 a? ' Wa ti, ' Se i 
pelile.' Kwa ngeniswa umuntu 
end/dini, wa ti, a ba m ponsele 
ugongolo, a fune ikanda ; wa li 
penya, wa ti, ' Se ngi li bonile.' 
Wa ti, " Ngi ponsele ni nentambo.' 
Wa i kunga emk^aleni." 


Kwa tiwa, " Na ni ku zwa ini 
konke loku na ?" Wa ti Un/datu- 
yesiziba, " Nga ngi ku zwa. Ko- 
dwa nga ngi nga boni." Kwa ti- 
wa, " W' ezwa ngani na ? " Wa 
ti, "Nga ngi zwa ukukuluma." 
Ba ti, " Ku kuluma ubani ?" W a 
ti, " Ku kuluma Un/dangun/da- 
ngu." Ba buza, "Wa ti, a i be- 
kwe pi na?" Wa ti, "A i yo- 
ponswa esizibeni." Kwa tiwa, 
"Wa ba bona abantu aba be i 
pete inyoka na ? " Wa ti, "Nga 
b' ezwa." Ba ti, " Ba be i paka- 
misele pezulu ini na?" Wa ti, 
" Ba be i hbusba pansi, ba i ponsa 
emanzini." Ba ti, " Wa ba bona 
na?" Wa ti, "Nga b' ezwa." 
Ba ti, " Po, wa puma kanjani na?" 
Wa ti, "Nga kupukela ngapezu- 
lu." Ba ti, " W' enze njani nga- 
l^ezulu?" Wa ti, "Nga kup' i- 
sand/da." Ba ti, "Wa s' enze 
njani na ? " W T a ti, "Nga susa 
isikumba." Ba ti, "Wa s' enze 
njani isikumba na?" Wa ti, 
"Nga si /dubula." Ba ti, " Kwa 
vela ni pakati na ?" Wa ti, " Kwa 
vela abantu aba isliumi. B' ema 
n gok u 1 u n "el elan a n "okw el am an a 
kwetu." Kwa tiwa, " Abantu 
abangaki na ? " Wa ti, " Abantu 


took many days in the birth ; it 
filled the house ; the women ran 
out. They shouted, and asked our 
mother if she was still alive. She 
replied, ' I am still alive.' They 
asked, £ Is not the snake yet born?' 
She replied, ' It is now born.' A 
man was made to go into the 
house ; he told them to throw him 
a pole, that he might search for 
the head ; he turned it over, and 
said, ' I now see the head.' He 
said, 1 Throw me also a cord.' He 
fastened the end on the neck." 
They asked them if they heard 
all that. Unthlatu-yesiziba said, 
" I heard it ; but I could not see." 
They said, " How did you hear ? " 
He replied, " I heard them speak." 
They said, " Who spoke ? " He 
replied, " Unthlangunthlangu. " 
They asked, " Where did he com- 
mand the snake to be put ? " He 
said, " He commanded it to be 
cast into the pool." They said, 
" Did you see the people who took 
the snake ?" He replied, " 1 heard 
them." They said, "Did they 
raise it from the ground ? " He 
replied, " They dragged it on the 
ground, and cast it into the wa- 
ter." They said, " Did you see 
them ? " He replied, " I heard 
them." They said, " But how did 
you get out ? " He said, " I went 
up to the mouth of the snake." 
They said, "What did you do 
there ? " He said, " I put out my 
hand." They said, " What did 
you do with your hand ? " He 
said, " I removed the skin." They 
said, " How did you take away 
the skin ? " He said, " I slipped 
it off." They said, " What came 
from inside ? " He said, " There 
came out ten persons. They stood 
one after the other according to 
the order of their birth." They 
said, " How many persons?" He 


UNTHLANGUNTHLANGU. 


279 


aba is liii mi." Kwa tiwa, " Ko- 
mb' o kw elamayo." Wa m ko- 
mba. Kwa tiwa, " Nawe, komb' o 
kw elamayo." Wa m komba. 
Kwa tiwa, " Nawe, komb' o kw e- 
lamayo." Wa m komba. Kwa 
ba njalo kubo bonke. 


They recognise and } 

Kwa tiwa, " Komb' unyoko." 
Wa m komb' unina. Kwa tiwa, 
" I pi indAlu yakwenu 1 " Wa ti, 
" Nansi esangweni." Kwa tiwa, 
" Kw enza ngani ind/Ju yakwenu 
ukuba i be sesangweni na?" Wa 
ti, " Kw enza ngoku/dupeka, ngo- 
kub' a zala inyoka." 


The father acknowledges t 

Wa ti uyise, a ku butwe izin- 
kabi zake izwe lonke. Kwa fika 
izinkabi ezi ishumi. Kwa tiwa, 
k' eAle U n/datu-yesiziba. W' e- 
/dela pansi. Kwa fika izinkabi 
ezi isbumi ; kwa nikwa udade wa- 
bo o m elamayo. W' e/dela pansi. 
Kwa tiwa, abanye a ba ze/dele, sc 
ku nikwe amakosi. 


He makes TJnthlatu-yesiziha king , < 

Wa jabula unina. Uyise wa m 
pata ngengalo U n/datu-yesiziba, 
wa ti, a ba kgonde endAlini ese- 
nAla. W' ala Un/datu-yesiziba, 
wa ti, " Ngi za 'ungena kweya- 
kwetu." Wa t' uyise, " Mntauami, 


said, " Ten." They said, " Point 
out the one which followed you." 
He pointed her out. They said, 
" And you, too, point out the one 
which followed you." She pointed 
him out. They said, " And you, 
too, point out the one which fol- 
lowed you." He pointed her out. 
They all did so. 

nnt out their mother. 

They said, " Point out your 
mother." He pointed her out. 36 
They said, " Which is your mo- 
ther's house 1 " He said, " There 
at the gateway." They said, " How 
happens it that your mother's 
house is at the gateway 1 " He 
replied, " It happens because of 
affliction : because she gave birth 
to a snake." 

em, and gives them cattle. 

The father commanded the 
whole nation to collect his cattle. 
Ten oxen were brought. He told 
Untlilatu-yesiziba to come down. 
He dismounted. Ten other oxen 
were brought ; these were given to 
his sister who was born after him. 
She dismounted. The others were 
told to dismount of their own ac- 
cord, for the chief children had 
received presents. 

nd gives everything into , his hands. 

The mother rejoiced. The fa- 
ther took the arm of Untlilatu- 
yesiziba, and said, " Let us go to 
the house at the head of the vil- 
lage." Untlilatu-yesiziba refused, 
saying, " I will go into my mo- 
ther's house." The father said, 
" My child, what can I do, since 


36 See Appendix (B). 


L L 


280 


IZINGAXEKWAXE. 


ng' enze njani, ind/du i senzansi 
nje ? " Wa ti, "Ngi ya bona 
ukuba umarne wa e /dupeka." Wa 
ti, " Mntanami, nga ngi bona 
ukuba e zele isilwane. Kwa se ku 
punyiswa inkosikazi e sen/da eb'i 
kuyo ; se ku inkosikazi." Wa ti, 
" Nga ng' enza ngokuba lo wa e 
nga zalanga, wa e zele inyoka. 
Nga ngi te u yena o ya 'uzala in- 
kosi." Wa ti ke, " Nam/da i fikile 
inkosi yami ; nonke se ni ya 'ubu- 
swa U n/datu-yesiziba. " 


Kwa busa yena ke ; abanye ba 
ba abake. Wa tata uyise konke 
oku okwake, wa ku nika yena. 
Wa ti, " Nengcozana se ngi ya 
'unikwa u yena." Wa ti, " Bonke 
abami se ku ng' abake, ne ngi 
nako okwake." 

Se i pelile. 

Umatsiiotsha (Umkamafuta). 


her house is at the lower part of 
the village ? " 37 He replied, " I 
see that my mother was troubled." 
He said, " My child, I saw that 
she had given birth to a beast. 
And the chief wife was removed 
from the superior house where she 
lived ; and there is another chief 
wife in her place." He said, " I 
did this because this one had no 
child, but gave birth to a snake. 
I used to say, it is she who shall 
be the mother of the future king." 
He said, " And to-day my king 
has come ; and all of you will now 
be governed by Unthlatu-yesiziba." 
So he reigned ; the others were 
under him. His father took all 
that belonged to him, and gave it 
to his son. He said, " I will now 
be given even the least thing by 
him. All my people are now his, 
and all I have is his." 

This is the end of the tale. 


APPENDIX (A). 

SUPERSTITIOUS ABSTINENCE FROM CERTAIN KINDS 

OF FOOD. 


The following superstitions in abstaining from certain food resembles the JEtoon 
dab of the West coast Africans : — 


Ku kona kwabamnyama indaba 
ngokuziki ukud/da oku tile. In- 

komo uma i k^atshelwe inkonyana, 
ya fela esiswini, kwa za kwa fa 
nonina wayo, i nga ka pumi, leyo 
hikomo i ya zilwa abatsha aba nga 
ka zibuli. Izintombi zona ngi nga 
zi pete zona ; a ku ko namkcaba- 
ngo wokuti, " Zi nga i d/da na 1 " 
ngokuba ku tiwa leyo 'nkomo i ya 
'kwcnza ufuzo olubi kwabesifazana, 


There is among black men the 
custom of abstaining from certain 
foods. If a cow lias the calf taken 
from her dead, and the mother too 
dies before the calf is taken away, 
young people who have never had 
a child abstain from the flesh of 
that cow. I do not mean to speak 
of girls ; there is not even a 
thought of whether they can eat 
it ; for it is said that the cow will 
produce a similar evil among the 


37 The king, being accustomed to live in the chief house, could not conde- 
scend to live at the gateway. 


ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD. 


281 


omunye a be njalo ngam/da e bele- 
tayo, a vinjelwe njengayo, a fe ne- 
sisu. I zilwa ngaloko ke inkomo 
enjalo. 


Futi ingulube a i d/diwa izin- 
tombi nakanye ; ngokviba isilwane 
esi mile kabi ; umlomo mubi, mu- 
de ngombombo wayo ; ngaloko ke 
izintombi a zi i d/di ngokuti uma 
zi i d/da ku nga vela ufuzo olu- 
njalo enzalweni. Zi i yeka nga- 
loko ke. 

Kuningi oku zilwayo abantu 
abamnyama ngokwesaba ufuzo olu- 
bi ; ngokuba ku tiwa u kona umu- 
ntu owa ka wa zala ind/dovu ne- 
haslii ; kodwa a s' azi ukuba ku 
isiminya ini loko ; se zi zilwa nga- 
loko ke ngokuti zi nga veza ufuzo 
ngokud/diwa ; nend/dovu ku tiwa 
i veza ufuzo, ngokuba uma i bule- 
we, ukuma kwayo kwezinye izin- 
dawo zomzimba i umuntu wesifa- 
zana, njengamabele manye nowesi- 
fazana. Ngaloko ke i y' esabeka 
kwabancane ukud/diwa ; 'kupela i 
d/diwa ngezwe-'kufa, ku nge ko 
'kud/da, ngokuti i lowo na lowo 
kwabesifazana aba izintombi, " A 
ku 'kcala uma ngi i zala ngi pilile, 
ku noku nga i zali ngokubulawa 
ind/dala." I d/diwa ngokunyinye- 
ka nje. 


Okunye oku zilwayo amatumbu 
enkomo. A wa d/diwa amadoda 
ngokwesaba ukuti, " Uma si wa 
dAla, impi i ya 'ku si h \ aba ema- 
tunjini." Abatsha a ba wa d/di ; 
a d/diwa a se be badala. 


Okunye oku nga d/diwa uvoko- 


women, so that one of them will 
be like the cow when she is in 
childbirth, be unable to give birth, 
like the cow, and die together 
with her child. On this account, 
therefore, the flesh of such a cow 
is abstained from. 

Further, pig's flesh is not eaten 
by girls on any account ; for it is 
an ugly animal ; its mouth is ugly, 
its snout is long; therefore girls 
do not eat it, thinking if they eat 
it, a resemblance to the pig will 
appear among their children. They 
abstain from it on that account. 

There are many things which 
are abstained from among black 
people through fear of bad resem- 
blance ; for it is said there was a 
person who once gave birth to an 
elephant, and a horse ; but we do 
not know if that is true ; but they 
are now abstained from on that 
account, through thinking that 
they will produce an evil resem 
blance if eaten ; and the elephant 
is said to produce an evil resem- 
blance, for when it is killed many 
parts of its body resemble those of 
a female ; its breasts, for instance, 
are just like those of a woman. 
Young people, therefore, fear to 
eat it ; it is only eaten on account 
of famine, when there is no food ; 
and each of the young women say, 
" It is no matter if I do give birth 
to an elephant and live ; that is 
better than not to give birth to it, 
and die of famine." So it is eaten 
from mere necessity. 

Another thing which is abstain- 
ed from is the entrails of cattle. 
Men do not eat them, because they 
are afraid if they eat them, the 
enemy will stab them in the 
bowels. Young men do not eat 
them ; they are eaten by old 
people. 

Another thing which is not 


282 


IZINGANEKYVANE. 


tana wenkomo ; ngokuba ku tiwa 
omutsha a nge mu dAle, u ya 
'kwenza ufuzo olubi kumntwana ; 
umlomo womntwana u ya 'kututu- 
rnela njalo, ngokuba udebe lwen- 
komo olu ngenzansi lu ya zama- 
zama njalonjalo. A ba lu d/di ke 
ngaloko ; ngokuba uma ku bonwa 
umntwana womuntu omutsha um- 
lomo wake u tutumela, ku tiwa, 
" W' oniwa uyise, owa dAla udebe 
1 wenkomo." 

Futi okunye oku nga dAliwa 
abatsha umtala wenkomo, ufu ; 
ngokuba umtala a u naboya, a u 
namsendo ; u gwadula nje. Nga- 
loko ke ku tiwa uma u d/diwa 
abatsha, abantwana ba ya 'kupuma 
be nge nanwele, amakanda e idolo 
nje. U yekwa ngaloko ke. 


Futi ku kona oku zilwayo em- 
buzini. Ukgubu 38 lwembuzi a lu 
d/diwa umuntu omncinane ; ngo- 
kuba ku tiwa imbuzi i namand/da 
kakulu, i 'bukali ekubebeni. Nga- 
loko ke nomuntu omncinane a 
ng' enakala ngofuzo lwayo, a be 
' oukah kakulu, a pinge. Lu ye- 
kwa ngaloko ke. 

Futi umtila wembuzi a u d/diwa 
abatsha ; ngokuba imbuzi into e 
suza futifuti. Ku tiwa umuntu e 
d/da wona, u ya 'kufuza imbuzi, a 
nga zibambi, at' e Ale zi nabantu a 
be e ziAleba njalonjalo ngokusuza ; 
ai ngamabomu, e punyukwa. U 
yekwa ngaloko ke. 

Futi inkomo a i d/diwa abatsha 
i nga ka boboswa ngapakati ; b' e- 
saba ukuba amansceba empi e ba 
Alabayo, a ya 'kuvimbana, a ng' o- 


eaten is the under lip of a bullock ; 
for it is said, a young person must 
not eat it, for it will produce an 
evil resemblance in the child ; the 
lip of the child will tremble con- 
tinually, for the lower lip of a bul- 
lock moves constantly. They do 
not therefore eat it ; for if a child 
of a young person is seen with its 
mouth trembling, it is said, " It 
was injured by its father, who ate 
the lower lip of a bullock." 

Also another thing which is ab- 
stained from is that portion of the 
paunch of a bullock which is call- 
ed umtala ; for the umtala has 
no villi, it has no pile ; it is merely 
smooth and hard. It is therefore 
said, if it is eaten by young people, 
their children will be born without 
hair, and their heads will be bare 
like a man's knee. It is therefore 
abstained from. 


* * * * 


* * * -* 


* * * * 


* * * * 


Further, the flesh of a cow is 
not eaten by young people until it 
is eviscerated ; they fearing that 
wounds received in war will close 
and not bleed externally, but 


38 This word is not derived from ukuJcquba, to drive or push, but from uhu- 
Jc(\uba, to contract or draw in. The click in the former is pronounced with a 
slight expiration ; in the latter with a decided drawing in of the breath, pro- 
ducing a marked difference in pronunciation, which would prevent a native ear 
from confounding the two words. We have at present no means of distinguish- 
ing them in writing. 


SYMPATHY BY THE NAVEL. 


283 


pi, 'opele ngapakati, umuntu a fe. 
Kw esatshwa loko ke. 

F uti ku kona okunye oku nge- 
nisa um/dola ngoku/deka. Ingu- 
lube isilwane esibi kakulu nge- 
kancla. Uma i bomva, i ya /dekwa 
kakulu isifazana, abadala ba m 
tulise o /dekayo, ngokuti, " U nga 
i Aleki into embi ; u ya 'kuzala 
yona, u jambe." Ba tuliswa nga- 
loko ke. Nesilima a si /dek-wa, 
ngokuba ku tiwa o /dekayo u zi- 
bizela um/dola. 


Kuningi okusele okunje okufu- 
zisayo, nako ku ya zilwa njalo. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


within, and the man die. It is 
dreaded on that account. 

There is, besides, another thing 
which causes a prodigy through 
being laughed at. The pig is a 
very ugly animal as regards its 
head. When it is seen, women 
laugh at it exceedingly ; but old 
people silence the one who laughs, 
by saying, "Do not laugh at an 
ugly thing ; you will give birth to 
something like it, and be ashamed." 
So they are silenced. And a de- 
formed person is not laughed at ; 
for it is said the woman who 
laughs at the deformed person calls 
down an omen on herself. 

There are many other such 
tilings which bring about things 
resembling themselves, and they 
too are abstained from. 


APPENDIX (B). 

UKUZWANA NGENKABA. 

(sympathy by the navel.) 

U nthlatu - yesiziba is here supposed to recognise his mother, whom he had 
never seen, by what the natives call "sympathy by the navel," that is, the 
sympathy which is supposed to exist between blood-relations, who feel a mu- 
tual, undefined attraction towards each other without being able to assign a 
cause. 

The belief in the existence of such a sympathetic power is common. Thus, 
Raynburn is travelling with Heraud, and falls in with an unknown 
champion keeping a mountain pass. Raynburn determines to put his prowess 
to the test ; and after a long combat, in which neither gains any advantage, 
Heraud interferes, and advises the strange knight to yield : — "The young man 
then condescends to ask their names, observing, that at the sight and voice of 
Sir Heraud, he feels an affray of which he had never before been conscious. 
Heraud now, in his turn, refuses, and the young knight consents to speak first. 
The reader will perhaps hear with some surprise that this was no other than 
Aslake, Sir Heraud's son, concerning whose birth and education we have no in- 
formation whatever, and that the affray occasioned by the sight of his father 
was the instinctive voice of filial affection." (Ellis. Specimens of Early Eng- 
lish Metrical Romances. Vol. II., p. 90.) But the instinct of the horse Arun- 
del detects his master Bevis, whilst Josyan his wife does not recognise him. 
( Id., p. 131. J — So our own Keble : 

" No distance breaks the tie of blood ; 

Brothers are brothers evermore ; 

Nor wrong, nor wrath of deadliest mood, 

That magic may o'erpower ; 

Oft, ere the common source be known, 

The kindred drops will claim their own, 

And throbbing pulses silently 

Move heart towards heart by sympathy." 

(The Christian Year.) 


284 


IZIXGANEKWANE. 


Indaba ngenkaba ukuzwana kwa- 
bo ngayo, ukuba ku ti uma um- 
ntwana o se kulile, e nga ka bi 
umfana noma intombazana, e se 
mncane kulok.o, ku ti uma e nga 
vumi ukutatwa abantu abaningi, 
'ala ukuya kubo, e jwayelene no- 
yise nonina nabendAlu yakwabo ; 
ku ti m/da ku fika owakubo o um- 
deni naye, a m bize ; abazali ba ti, 
" Si za 'uke si bone, loku e nga 
vumi ukupatwa abanye 'bantu." 
Lowo o umdeni e m bizela uku m 
anga, umntwana 'esukele pezulu, a 
ng' esabi, a ye kuye ; a m ange, a 
m singate. Ba tslio ke abazali 
ukuti, " Nembala ! Kanti um- 
ntwana lo umuntu wakubo u mu 
zwa ngenkaba, ukuti ngi ng' ale 
kulo, owetu." Ku njalo ke uku- 
zwa ngenkaba. 


Futi ku ti kumuntu omdala e 
hambile ezweni eli kude, e ng' aza- 
ni namuntu wakona, a tshonelwe 
ilanga, a ti, " O, loku ilanga se li 
tslionile, a ngi nga u d/duli lo 'mu- 
zi, loku se li tslionile nje." A ye 
kuwo, e ng' azani namuntu, e yela 
ukulala nje, ukuba ku se a d/dule, 
a ye lap' e ya kona. Ku ti ngo- 
kufika kwake kuwo, a kuleke, a 
ngene, a /dale ; a bingelelwe, e 
njengomfokazi kulowo 'muzi, ame- 
Alo e ng' azani. Ba m buze lap' e 
vela kona ; a ku tslio. Ba m pe 
ukud/da uma ku kona ; ba m pate 
ka/de njengomuntu wabo, ba nga 
zibambi ngaluto kuye. A d/de, 
'esute, a ncibilike, ba buzane izin- 
daba ; ba hambe ba hambe enda- 
beni, ba ze ba fike ekuzalweni 
ukuti, " Wena, u ng' okabani na 


The sympathy which men feel 
with each other through the navel 
is this : When a child, who is now 
grown, but is not yet called a boy 
or a girl, being too young for that, 
will not be taken by many people, 
but refuses to go to them, being 
sociable with its father and mother 
and the people of their household : 
but wdien there comes one who is 
a blood-relation, and calls the 
child, the parents say, "We shall 
now see, for he will not be taken 
by other people." When that 
blood-relation calls the child to 
kiss it, it jumps up, and goes to 
him without fear ; so he kisses it, 
and places it in his lap. So the 
parents say, " O, truly ! Forsooth 
the child knows a blood-relation 
by the navel, that it must not ob- 
ject to him ; he is one of us." 
This is what we mean by "to 
know by the navel." 

Again, it happens with an elder 
person, when he has gone to a dis- 
tant country, and has no acquaint- 
ance with any man there, he may 
be overtaken by night, and say, 
" O, since the sun has now set, let 
me not pass this village, for the 
sun has really set." He goes to 
it, being unacquainted with any 
one, going there just to pass the 
night, and in the morning pass on 
to where he is going. When he 
comes to it he salutes the house- 
holder and enters and sits down ; 
he is saluted in return, being like 
a stranger in the village ; the eyes 
having no sympathy. They ask 
him whence he comes; he tells 
them. They give him food, if 
there is any ; they treat him kind- 
ly, as if he belonged to them ; they 
refuse him nothing. He eats and 
is satisfied ; he loses all reserve ; 
they ask each other of the news ; 
they proceed with the news till 
they come to birth, and ask, 
" What is your father's name in 


SYMPATHY BY THE NAVEL. 


285 


ekutini ?" be tsho isibongo sakona. 
A mu tsho uyise. 0 buzayo a ti, 
" TJ ng' okabani kabani," e tsho 
uyise-mkulu. 'Etuke lo o buzwa- 
yo, a ti, " Hau ! Ubaba-mkulu u 
m azi ngani na ? " 'Ezwe e se m 
pendula ngokuti, " U ti ngi nge 
m azi ngani, loku 11 gi ng' okabani 
kabani 11 a?" Uyise-mkulu a be 
munye wabo bobabili. Lapo ke 
ku be se ku ba ukukala kubo bo- 
babili. Ku tshiwo ke abantu 
ukuti, " Umuntu u mu zwa ngen- 
kaba owabo. Si mangele ngoku- 
patwa kwalo 'muntu, e patwa 
ubani. Sa ti u ya m azi ; kanti 
ka m azi ; u mu zwa ngenkaba nje 
'kupela." 


I njalo ke intlaba ngenkaba. A 
si ku zwa kwabadala ukuti, uku- 
zwa ngenkaba loku, ukuba inkaba 
y enze njani ukuze umuntu 'azi 
ngayo, ukuti owetu lo 'muntu, 
loku inkaba yami ngi i zwa y enza 
nje. A si fiki kuloku 'kuk^onda 
oku tshiwoyo ngayo. Kepa a ku 
ngabazwa ; ku ya k^iniswa njalo. 


Futi ku kona kwabamnyama 
ukukciteka kwezwe ; abantu b' a- 
Alukane nabantwana babo be se 
bancinane ; omunye umntwana a 
tolwe umuntu e se zihambela nje, 
e ng' azi lapa e ya kona; kanti 
igama likayise u ya 1' azi, nesi- 
bongo u ya s' azi. Ba kciteke ; 
nabanye abantwana ba tolwe izin- 
dawo ngezindawo ; ku be i lowo a 
ti okababa wa fa, nomunye a tsho 
njalo, be tsho ngokuba be ng' ezwa 
lapa omunye e kona. 


such a nation ? " mentioning the 
surname of the nation. He gives 
the name of his father. He who 
enquires says, "You are the son 
of So-and-so, the son of So-and- 
so, " naming his grandfather. 
The man who is asked starts and 
asks, " O, how do you know my 
grandfather?" And he hears him 
say in reply, " Why do you say 1 
ought not to know So-and-so, since 
I am the son of So-and-so, the son 
of So-and-so ? " The grandfather 
of both of them is one. Then 
both begin to cry. So the people 
say, "A man knows one of his 
blood- relations by the navel. We 
have been wondering at the treat- 
ment of the man by So-and-so. 
W e thought he knew him ; yet he 
did not know him ; he sympathised 
with him by the navel only." 

Such, then, is the case of the 
navel. We do not hear from the 
old men that to sympathise by the 
navel is this or that, or how the na- 
vel acts that a man should know by 
it that such a man is his relation, 
because he feels his navel acting 
thus. We have not attained to 
such an understanding of what is 
said about it. But there is no 
doubt about it ; it is confirmed 
constantly. 

Further; among black men there 
is a desolation of the country ; and 
parents separate from their children 
when quite young ; one child is 
taken by a person who is going 
about objectless, not knowing 
whither he is going ; but he knows 
his father's name and the family 
name also. They are scattered, 
and the children are provided for 
in different places ; and each thinks 
that the child of his father is dead, 
saying thus because neither knows 
where the other is. 


28G 


IZINGANHEKWANE. 


Ku ti ngokuzinge ku snkwa ku- 
lezo 'ndawo um until e se diniwe, a 
ze a fike lapa kwa tolwa umnta 
kayise kona ; uma ku intombazana 
a m Alobonge nje, e ti intombi nje, 
ngokuba se kwa laAleka igarna 
lake, likayise, li laAlwa ugoba ku 
tiwa i kona abakubo be nga yi 
'ku m tola ; noyise e nga sa patwa 
ukuti, u umntakabani ; se kutiwa, 
" Okabani," ku tshiwo umtoli. A 
ze a ti owesifazana, " Bani," e m 
biza noregama lake lokutolwa, " n<n 
nge Aiobonge nawe ; kungati u 
umne wetu; a ngi ku kcabangi 
nakanye." Omunye a pikelele 
ngokuti, " Nakanye ! u ya ng' ala 
nje. Ng' owasekutini min a ; u ya 
ng' ala nje. Musa ukwekcatslia 
ngaloko." B' aAlukane nembala 
ngokwala kwowesifazana. 

O 


Ku ze ku ti ngokuhamba kwe- 
sikati lapa umlisa e se jwayele, e 
s' azana nabantu balo 'muzi, ba 
buzane izindaba ; ba ze ba m tshele 
labo aba Alangene naye kaAle, lo 
'nilisa be ng' azi ukuba munye no- 
wesifazana, be ti, ba ya Aleba nje 
indaba kumuntu aba kolana naye, 
ukuti, " Lo 'mntwana okabani, 
uyise. Kodwa la la/dwa igama 
likayise ukuze ku d/diwe ngaye." 
Ngaloko ke 'ezwe owabo, a ng' e- 


It happens because a man con- 
tinually quits one place after an- 
other as he tires of them, he at 
length comes to a place where a 
child of his father is received into 
the household ; if it is a girl, he may 
begin to court her, regarding her 
as any other girl, for her name 
which she received from her father 
has become lost ; it is concealed 
because they suppose that then her 
people will be unable to find her ; 
and the name of her father is no 
longer mentioned, by calling her 
the daughter of her own father ; 
but it is now said, " She is the 
daughter of So-and-so," naming 
the person who has taken charge 
of her. But at length the woman 
says, calling him by the name he 
has received from those with whom 
he has lived, " So-and-so, I cannot 
associate with you ; it is as though 
you were my brother; I do not 
think of it for a moment." The 
other perseveres, saying, "Not at 
all ! you refuse me, that is all. I 
am of such a place. You merely 
refuse me. Don't hide your feel- 
ings by such an excuse." So they 
separate through the woman's re- 
fusal. 

At length in the course of time 
when the man is getting accus- 
tomed to the place, and has a fel- 
low feeling with the people of the 
village, they begin to ask each 
other respecting the news ; and at 
length those with whom he is on 
good terms, not knowing that the 
man is one with the woman, 
thinking they are merely telling a 
matter of history to one whom 
they love, say, " That child is the 
daughter of So-and-so ; he is her 
father. But the name of her fa- 
ther was lost, in order that we 
may get cattle by her." So, then, 
he hears that she is his sister ; he 


SYMPATHY BY THE NAVEL. 


287 


tuki, a zibe nje ; a ze a Alangane 
nowesifazana ; a buzise kaAle ku- 
ye ukuti, " TJ lapa nje ; kwini u 
sa kw azi na ?" A ti, nma e kw a- 
zi, " Ngi ya kw azi." A buze 
igama lake ukuti, " Leli 'gama o 
bizwa ngalo manje u ya Y azi na ? 
ela pi na? " A ti, " Elokutolwa." 
A buze omunye 'likayise ukuti, 
" Elikayi/do u ubani na ? " A ti, 
"Ngi unobani." A buze abantu 
bonke bakubo. A ba tsho a b' a- 
ziyo ; a nga b' aziyo a nga ba tsho. 
A buze na ngaye ukuti, " U ya m 
azi ubani na ? " A ti, " Ngi ya m 
azi." A ti, " U nga m komba 
manje na, uma u /dangana naye 
na?" A ti, "A ng' azi, ngokuba 
ukukula ku ya pendula." 'Ezwe 
ekupeleni kwamazwi e se gedeza 
umlisa, e bonga Amatongo akubo ; 
ekupeleni a ziveze ngokuti, " Na- 
nku mina ke, nobani kababa. Ngi 
ti itongo lakwiti li s' emi. TJ ya 
bona nga ponsa 'kwenza amanyala. 
Kanti u ng' okababa." 


Ba kale bobabili. Ba tsho ke 
ukuti, " Inkaba le ey enza nje le. 
Si be si ng' azani." Leyo 'ndaba 
i ze i vele kubatoli. Abatoli, lapa 
e se bizwa umne wabo, ba linge 
uku m fi/da ; kepa b' a/duleke 


39 That is, the 


does not start, but merely turns 
away their attention from himself ; 
at length he communicates with 
the woman, and enquires thorough- 
ly of her, saying, "As you are 
living here, are you acquainted 
with your own people ? " If she 
knows them, she replies, " I know 
them." He asks her name, saying, 
" The name by which you are now 
called, do you understand it ? 
Where did you receive it ? " She 
says, " It is the name of the place 
where I have been taken care of." 
The other enquires the name she 
received from her father, saying, 
" What name did your father give 
you?" She says, "My name is 
So-and-so." He asks the names of 
all her people ; she mentions those 
she knows ; she is silent respecting 
those she does not know. He 
asks also as regards himself, say- 
ing, " Do you know So-and-so ? " 
She replies, " I know him." He 
asks, " Could you point him out 
now, if you met with him ? " She 
says, "I do not know ; for growth 
changes a man." At the end of 
her words she hears the man re- 
joicing, and praising the Ama- 
tongo 39 of their people ; and at last 
he reveals himself, saying, " Be- 
hold, here I am, daughter of my 
father. I say the Itongo of our 
house is still mighty. You see I 
was nearly committing unclean- 
ness. All the time you are my 
father's child forsooth." 

Both weep, and say, "It is the 
navel which has brought about such 
a thing as this. We had no know- 
ledge of each other." At length 
the real facts of the case are re- 
lated by those who have taken 
charge of her. When her brother 
first claims her, they endeavour to 
conceal her ; biit they are not 

acestral spirits. 


M M 


288 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngokwazana kwomntwana nama- 
gama abantu bakubo a tshiwo um- 
ntwana, abatoli be nga w' azi. 
B' a/duleke eku m fiAleni kwabo ; 
ba bize isond/do ; a ba nike ; a 
buyele kuye. Naloko ke ku tiwa 
indaba yenkaba. 


Futi ku kona indaba e njengayo 
le yenkaba, kodwa yona indaba 
ey aziwayo ; i fi/dekile ngokukci- 
teka kwezwe. 

Kwa ti ekukcitekeni kwetu 
kwazulu, si kcitwa ukwaAluleka 
kukadingane ngokulwa namabunu, 
kwa ku kona obabekazi be babili 
aba landela ubaba ekuzalweni ; 
owokugcina Umagusbu, ibizo lake. 
Wa tata umfazi se ku za ukukci- 
teka izwe, udade waomanjanja 
kan/dambela. Ku te e s' andu m 
tata inyanga zi se ne e fikile 
XJmanjonga umkake, sa kciteka ke 
kulelo 'zwe, si za lapa esilungwini. 
Kwa ti endAleleni wa Alubuka, wa 
buyela kwabakubo ; e muka ku sa 
tiwa u se muAle, ku nga ka k<?o- 
ndeki. Wa la/deka njalo ke ; i 
ya m funa indoda yake ; a i sam 
boni ; ngokuba abantu ngaleso 'si- 
kati ba se be nyakaza nje njenge- 
zimpetu ezindAleleni, be ng' azi 
lapa be ya kona uma ba ya ngapi 
na. 


Sa fika ke tina lap' esilungwini ; 
kanti naye u fikile kwezinye 'zin- 
dawo esi ng' azani nazo. Si zinge 
si kuluma ngaye, si ti, " Umakazi 


able to do so through the know- 
ledge the children have of each 
other, and by their knowledge 
of the names of their people, 
which they do not themselves 
know. They are unable to con- 
ceal her, and so they demand re- 
payment for having brought her 
up ; he gives it them, and his 
sister returns to him. That, too, 
is called a case of the navel. 

F urther, there is a matter which 
resembles this of the navel, but 
this is something which is really 
known, but it is indistinct through 
the desolation of the country. 

It happened when our family 
was scattered when we lived with 
the Zulus, in consequence of Udi- 
ngane having been unable to con- 
tend in battle with the Dutch, we 
had two uncles which were young- 
er than our father ; the youngest 
was called Umagushu. When the 
country was about to be desolated, 
he married the sister of the Man- 
janjas, the children of Unthlam- 
bela. When they had been mar- 
ried, and his wife XJmanjonga had 
been with him now four months, 
we were scattered from that coun- 
try, and came here into the coun- 
try of the whiteman. But in the 
way she deserted, and returned to 
her own people ; when she went 
away she was already beautiful , 40 
but they were not yet sure about 
it. So she was lost ; her husband 
continually looked for her, but saw 
no more of her ; for at that time 
people were in confusion like mag- 
gots in the path, and did not know 
whither they were going. 

So we came here into the coun- 
try of the whiteman ; and forsooth 
she too came, to a different place, 
with which we were not acquaint- 
ed. We continually talked about 
her, saying, " Where could the 


40 An euphemism, meaning she was pregnant. 


SYMPATHY BY THE NAVEL. 


289 


unifazi kababekazi ow' emuka ne- 
sisu wa ya ngapi na ? " si funa si 
/dezi. Kwa za kwa ti, lapa nati 
se si kulile, sa Alangana naye, si 
mu zwa ngegama, e sa si m biza 
iigalo. Sa buza masinyane, si ti, 
" U lapa nje, isisu ow' emuka naso 
s' enza njani na ? " Wa ti, "Sa 
puma." Sa dela ke ngokuti, " Po, 
loku sa puma njalo, si za 'uti ni 
na ?" 


Ya i kona intombazana e si i 
bona, si mangale, si i bona i fana 
nabantwana bakiti ; impela uma si 
i blieka si bone ukuti, " Umntwa- 
na wetu lo." Kepa si nga bi nabo 
ubufakazi, ngokuba ku tiwa wa 
fa ; kodwa inkaba yona i ya mu 
zwa, a i tandi ukuba si dele ; si 
ya dela uma si nga in boni ; ku ti 
si nga m bona si kolwe impela 
ukuba umntwana wetu lo. Ku ze 
kwa ti ngesikati esinye, w' enda e 
fi/diwe njalo ; ku ze ekwendeni wa 
buzwa igama likayise, wa ti, 
" Ubaba Umagusku." Kwa tiwa 
ke ewake, 41 ukubizwa kwake Uma- 
magusbu. Sa li zwa lelo 'gama ; 
na manje leyo 'ndaba a i ka peli ; 
si y' azi ukuba umntwana wetu lo 
ngenkaba e si zwana ngayo naye. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


wife of our uncle, who left us 
pregnant, have gone V We asked 
about her whilst remaining at 
home. Until at length, when we 
too had grown up, we met with 
her, hearing her mentioned by the 
name by which we used to call 
her. We at once enquired, " Since 
you are really living, what became 
of the child with which you were 
pregnant when you went away 1 " 
She replied, " I miscarried." So 
we were satisfied, saying, " Well, 
then, since she miscarried, what 
have we to say to it ? " 

There was there a girl which 
when we saw we wondered, seeing 
that she resembled one of our own 
children ; in fact, when we looked 
on her, we saw that she was one 
of our own. But we had no evi- 
dence, for it was said the child of 
our uncle died ; but the navel felt 
her, and would not allow us to be 
satisfied ; when we were not look- 
ing on her, we were satisfied ; but 
when we looked on her, we fully 
believed that she was one of us. 
At length in time she married, 
being still concealed. When at 
her marriage she was asked the 
name of her father, she replied, 
" My father is Umagushu." So 
she was called Umamagushu at 
the kraal into which she married. 
We heard the name; and even 
now the matter is not settled ; we 
know that she is our child by the 
navel, which causes us to have a 
sympathy with her. 


41 Ewake .— This is a locative form, and is ecpii valent to emzini wasewake , 
that is, the kraal or village into which a girl has married. 


290 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


INYOKA ENKTJLU E NOMLILO. 
(the great fiery serpent.) 


In connection with the monstrous serpent mentioned in the foregoing tale, we 
insert the following, which may be regarded as a recent "myth of observa- 
tion. " The immigration of the Dutch to Natal began in 1836. All it requires as its 
historical basis are a large water snake, or eel, and firearms ; imagination and 
frequent narration would readily supply the rest. The man who related it first 
mentioned this snake in connection with the rainbow, which some imagine is a 
large snake, and enquired whether this snake which the Dutchman killed was 
not a rainbow, which lived in the river ? The native notion respecting the rain- 
bow is added. 


Kwa ti lapa ngi umfana, ng' ezwa 
amadoda, ngesikati sokufika kwa- 
mabunu, e ti, "I kona inyoka, e 
puma emanzini, e nomlilo ; i ya 
gijima, i gijima kakulu ; umuntu 
a nge i skiye, e hamba pansi ; i z' i 
skiywe abamahashi." 

Ya fika ; kwa vela abasema- 
ngwaneni ; ba i lalela ; i puma esi- 
zibeni, ba i ngamula en/dokweni ; 
wa buyela umzimba wenyoka pa- 
kati esizibeni ; sa tsba isiziba, a 
n^amuka amanzi ukupuma esizi- 
beni. Ba baza abantu, ba ti, 
" Amanzi lawa a ngamulwa ini 
na 1 " Ba ti abanye, " Izolo si i 
bulele inyoka kona lapa." Ku 
tsbo basemangwaneni. Ba ti, " Ni 
bulele inyoka ; i njani na ? " Ba 
ti, " Si bulele inyoka ; i b' i nom- 
lilo enAloko." Ba ti, " Si funya- 
nise i nelitsbe lekcoba." Kwa ti- 
wa, "Ake ni ye emabunwini, ni 
bone uba a ya 'ku y azi le 'nyoka 


It came to pass, when I was a 
boy, I beard men say, at tbe time 
of tbe arrival of tbe Dutch, there 
is a fiery serpent, which comes out 
of the water ; it runs very fast ; a 
man cannot run away from it, if 
be goes on foot ; horsemen can 
leave it behind. 

It happened thus about this ser- 
pent : There came some of the 
Amangwane ; they lay in wait for 
it ; when it was coming out of the 
pool, they cut off its head ; the 
body of the serpent went back 
again into the pool ; the pool dried 
up, and the water ceased to flow 
from the pool. 42 Some of the 
men asked, " Why has this water 
ceased 1 " The others said, "Yes- 
terday we killed a serpent at this 
place." They of the Amangwane 
said this. They said, " You killed 
a snake : what was it like?" 
They said, "We killed a serpent ; 
it had a fiery head." They 
said, "We found in it a soft 
stone." 43 They said, " Just go to 
the Dutch, and see if they will 


42 This notion is similar to a superstition existing among the Bechuana : — 
' ' In the fountains in this country, there is a species of large water-snake. The 
Bechuanas consider these creatures sacred, and believe that if one of them is 
killed, the fountain will be dried up." ( Philip's Researches in South Africa. 
Vol II., p. m.) 

43 A soft stone, probably alluding to some kind of bezoar, or intestinal con- 
cretion. 


THE GREAT FIERY SERPENT. 


291 


na ? " Kwa fika Amabunu, e ti, 
" Le inyoka ni i bulele nje ; ni i 
bulele kabi ; inyoka e nga bulawa. 
Le inyoka, tina 'mabunu si ti si i 
bulala, ku be se ku vele enye, 
ukuze si nga tshi isiziba • ngokuba 
ka si i bulali n&a i vele i yodwa ; 
ngokuba no za ni bone, nina 'bantu 
abamnyama ; loku ni bulala in- 
yoka i yodwa, ku ya 'kuze ku tshe 
amanzi, ngokuba i ya 'ku wa 
vimba, a nga b' e sa puma ; ngo- 
kuba nina, 'bantu abamnyama, na 
ku tshelwa ubani, ukuba inyoka 
leyo i ya bulawa na ? " Ba ze 
'kuti abamnyama, " Tina si bona 
isilwane, si puma, s' alukela nga-- 
pand/de kwamanzi." A ti Ama- 
bunu, " Kona nga si bonwa isilwa- 
ne njalo, a s' enziwa 'luto, na:a si 
ng' oni 'luto." Ba ze 'kuti aba- 
mnyama, " Tina ngokwakiti, a si 
kw azi, iixa si bona isilwane, si si 
yeke." " Ku zo'uvela," Amabunu 
a ti ; " isilwane si nga bo si bulala 
emini. Ni ya 'kubona e ni nga 
bonanze 44 ni ku bone." Ba ze 
'kubuza abamnyama, ba ti, " Into 
'ni na e si nga bonanze si i bona 
11a ? " A ze 'kuti Amabunu, " Ni 
ya 'kubona ! Isingamu lesi sen- 
Aloko ni si se ngapi na ? " Ba ze 
'kuti abamnyama, " Tina si be si 
zifunela umuti nje wokuzelapela." 
A buza Amabunu, a ti, " Ni ze 
n' enze njani ngalowo 'muti, loku 
ni bulele isilwane nje, e ni nga 
s' aziko na?" Ba ze 'kuti aba- 
mnyama, " Tina si bulala nje uba 
ku isilwane si nga bonanga si si 
bona ; si ya 'u si Alanganisa nemiti 
eminye yetu." A ze 'kuti, " A 


know the serpent." The Dutch 
came, and said, "You have killed 
this serpent indeed ; you killed it 
wrongly ; it is a serpent which 
ought not to be killed. We Dutch 
kill this serpent, only when an- 
other comes with it, in order that 
the pool may not dry up ; for we 
do not kill it if it comes alone. 
For you black men will see some- 
thing ; since you killed a serpent 
which was alone, the water will 
immediately dry up, for it will ob- 
struct the water, and it will no 
longer flow. For, you black men, 
who told you that it is pro- 
per to kill that serpent ? " The 
black men answered at once, 
"We see an animal coming out of 
the water, and feeding outside." 
The Dutch answered, "Although 
an animal should be seen again 
and again, nothing is done to it, if 
it does no harm." The black men 
said, " As for us, if we see an ani- 
mal, we do not know how to leave 
it alone." " Something will hap- 
pen," said the Dutch ; " we must 
not kill the animal by day. You 
will see what you never saw be- 
fore." The black men immediately 
asked, " What is that which we 
have never seen before?" The 
Dutch answered, "You will see ! 
The head, with the piece attached 
to it, what have you done with 
it ? " The black men answered, 
"We were wanting medicine to 
doctor ourselves." The Dutch 
said, " What then will you do 
with that medicine, since you kill- 
ed an animal with which you are 
not acquainted ? " The black men 
answered, "For our part, we just 
killed it because it is an animal 
which we never saw before ; we 
shall mix it with other of our 
medicines." The Dutch said, 


44 For bonanga. 


292 


12I3GANEKWANE. 


no 'nza ka/de. A ku bonanga ku 
ze kw elape loko, loku nani ni ti a 
ni kw azi." 

A ya ukuba a buye kubantu 
abamnyama, e ya ngamahashi ; a 
fika ebusuku esizibeni, a Alala, a 
ti, " Si za 'ubona ukupuma kwa- 
yo." A t' uba a Alale, a Alale, ya 
puma inyoka ; za puma zambili ; 
enye ya puma ngenzansi, nenye ya 
puma ngen/da. Ya t' i sa puma e 
ngenzansi, ya puma ku vuta um- 
lilo. Ba t' ukwenza kwabo, ba i 
bona ba ti, be sa i bona, ba i tsha- 
ya ngezibamu ; ba i tshaya, ba i 
tskaya j a ba i tshaya lapa i za 
'kufa kona. Ya puma, ya puma, 
ya ba kccotsha ; ba kwela emaha- 
shini, ba baleka ; ba baleka, ama- 
haslii e tobangalolunye. Ba t' li- 
ma ba baleke, ya kgoma amahashi 
amabili a pakati. A t' amakaski 
a pambana kabili ; amanye a bhe- 
ka enAla nomfula, amanye a bheka 
enzansi nomfula. A t' amakashi 
amabili, la za la kcatsha elinye ; 
inyoka ya za ya tskaywa Ibunu. 
La i tskaya k^ede, la penduka 
ihaski e be li pambili ; la penduka 
kyede, la se li buza, li ti, " I ye 
ngapi ? " Uba se li bona ihaski, li 
zwe ukukala kwesibamu, ilangabi 
li nga sa li boni. La penduka, la 
ti, " U ti, ku sa i boni nje ; u ti 
Iowa umlilo u baswe ini ?" La ti, 
" Hamba, si kambe ke, si yo'bke- 
ka." Wa ti, " K^a. A pi ama- 
nye na? Kepa wena u tsliolo ni 
ukuti, 1 Ake si yo'ubheka ' into e 
kade i si katazile na ? Ba pi 
abanye na ? " Li vele elinye Ibu- 
nu, li ti, "A si yo'funa abanye ; se 
si li bonile ilangabi, lapa li vuta 
kona." A ti omunye, " Si za 'u 
ba funa ngani na ?" A ti omunye, 
" Si za 'u ba funa ngezibamu ; si 
za 'udubula pezu kwentaba uba si 


"Take care. No one ever used 
that as a medicine, for you too say 
you are ignorant of it." 

They went away from the black 
men on horseback ; they came by 
night to the pool; they waited, 
saying, "We shall soon see it come 
out." When they had waited and 
waited, the snake came out ; two 
came out, one at the bottom and 
the other at the top of the pool. 
As soon as the one at the bottom 
came out, there blazed up a fire. 
They did thus when they saw it. 
As soon as they saw it, they hit it 
with their guns ; they hit it again 
and again ; they did not hit it in a 
mortal spot. It came out, and 
pursued them. They mounted 
their horses, and fled. They fled, 
there being nine horses. When 
they fled, the serpent selected two 
horses which were in the middle. 
The horses divided into two par- 
ties ; some went up the river, and 
others went down. At length one 
of the two horses hid away, and 
the Dutchman at last hit the 
snake. As soon as he hit it, the 
horse which was in front turned 
back ; as soon as he came back, 
the Dutchman asked where it was 
gone. When he saw the horse, 
and heard the report of the gun, 
he no longer saw the flame. The 
other replied, "Do you say, you 
no longer see it ; what do you say 
the fire yonder was kindled by 1 ?" 
He said, " Let us go and look." 
He said, "Ho. Where are the 
others ? And why do you say, 
' Just let us go and look' at a thing 
which has just troubled us 1 
Where are the others ? " The 
other Dutchman said, " Let us go 
and find the others ; we have now 
seen the place where the flame is 
burning." The other said, " How 
shall we find them ? " He said, 
"We will find them by our guns ; 
we will fire them on the hill, when 


THE RAINBOW. 


293 


pumele." Ba t' uba La pumele, ba 
dubula, ba Alangana namabunu a 
shiyangalombili. A buza, a ti, 
" W enze njani ? Ni sindile ini 
na ? " Ba ti, " Si sindile. Ku ze 
elinye ihashi la kcatsha ; la lamu- 
lelwa elinye; sa i dubula ngesi- 
baniu. Nakwa lapa i fele kona, 
ku vuta." Ba ti, " Hamba ni, si 
hambe, ke si yo'blieka lapa i fele 
kona, uba i file na ? " Ba kamba. 
Ba t' uba ba fike, ba funyanisa se 
ku tunya intutu yodwa. Ba fika, 
ba funyanisa inyoka, inkulu ; se 
ku vuza amafuta. Ba ti, i nga- 
ngomuntu, ubukulu bayo ; ubude, 
inde impela, i nga i fike lapaya 
kwakcitwa. Ba buya, ba ti, "A 
ku yo'tatwa ingwelo, si zo'wolela 
le 'nyoka e ugagomuntu." 

Ujojo Sosibo. 


we get out." When they got out, 
they fired, and met with eight 
Dutchmen. They enquired, say- 
ing, " What have you done ? Are 
you safe?" They replied, "We 
are safe. At length one horse 
hid ; it was helped by the other ; 
we fired at the snake with the srun. 
And where it died, a fire was kin- 
dled." They said, " Go on, and 
we will go, and just see the place 
where it died, if it be really dead." 
They went. When they arrived, 
they saw nothing but smoke. They 
came, and saw the snake ; it was 
great, and its fat was running out. 
They said, it was as big as a man, 
as to its size ; as to its length, it 
was very long, perhaps it would 
reach from here to Ukcitwa's . 45 
They went back, saying, " Let us 
go and fetch the wagon ; we will 
carry away this snake which is as 
big as a man." 


UTINGO LWENKOSIKAZI. 


(the queen's bow.) 


TJma izulu li suke li 11a, ku bona- 
kala utingo lwenkosikazi. Be se 
be t' abantu r " Li za kusa ; ngo- 
kuba ku bonakala uti lwenkosi- 
kazi, utingo ; " li se : noma izulu. 
li na kakulu, ku bonakala utingo, 
li se ; li nga be li sa na, li se ; no- 


When the heaven happens to rain, 
on the appearance of the rainbow 
men say, " It is going to clear up ; 
for the rod of the queen, the bow, 
is seen ; " and it clears up : even 
though it rains much, on the ap- 
pearance of the bow, it clears up ; 
it rains no more, but clears up ; 
even though it has rained two 


45 A distance of more than 500 yards ! But this is a very modest exag- 
geration, compared with the Scotchman's eel : — " An old man in Lorn used to 
tell that he went one summer morning to fish on a rock ; he was not long there 
when he saw the head of an eel pass. He continued fishing for an hour, and 
the eel was still passing. He went home, worked in the field all day, and having 
returned to the same rock in the evening, the eel was still passing, and about 
dusk he saw her tail disappearing behind the rock on which he stood fishing." 
(Campbell's West Highland Tales. Vol. II., p. 370 .) We may also not un- 
aptly compare the Mussulman's exaggeration of the size and characteristics of 
Moses' serpent : — "Moses flung his staff on the ground, and instantly it was 
changed into a serpent as huge as the largest camel. He glanced at Pharaoh 
with fire-darting eyes, and raised Pharaoh's throne aloft to the ceiling, and 
opening his jaws, cried, ' If it pleased Allah, I could not only swallow up thy 
throne, with thee and all that are here present, but even thy palace and all that 
it contains, without any one perceiving the slightest change in me.' " ( Weil's 

Biblical Legends of the Mussulmans, p. 116.,) 


294 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ma li n' insuku zombili, ku bona- 
kala utingo, li se. 

Ba ti lu umuyama o /Jala esizi- 
beni, o fana nemvu. Ba ti, lapo u 
/dabe kona, u suke u puze esizibeni. 
Isiziba esikulu abantu ba y' esaba 
ukugeza kuso, ba ti, si nonmyama ; 
lima umuntu e ngena kuso, a ba- 
njwe umnyama, u mu d/de. Ko- 
dwa ba ti, esizibeni esi nomnyama 
ku ngena isanusi es' etasayo, si 
/dale nomnyama esizibeni, umnya- 
ma u nga si d/di, u si kcombe 
ngombala ; si ti si puma esizibeni, 
se si pambe ngezinyoka emzimbeni 
waso, si ye nazo ekaya. Isanusi 
izindaba e si zi kulumayo, abantu 
ba kolwa i zo. 

Uguaise wasemadungeni. 


days, on the appearance of tlie 
rainbow, it clears up. 

The people say the bow is an 
umnyama, which dwells in a pool, 
and is like a sheep. They say, 
that where it touches the earth, it 
is drinking at a pool. Men are 
afraid to wash in a large pool ; 
they say there is an umnyama in 
it ; and if a man goes in, it catches 
and eats him. But they say that 
a man who is being prepared to be 
a diviner goes into a pool which 
has an umnyama in it, and the 
umnyama does not eat him, but 
bedaubs him with coloured clay ; 
and he comes out of the pool with 
snakes entwined about his body, 
and goes home with them. Men 
believe in the tales they talk about 
the diviner. 


UTSHINTSHA NOMNYAMA. 

(UTSHINTSHA AND THE RAINBOW.) 


Nga ngi lindile ngi linde ensimini, 
izulu li na. La t' uba li se, kw' e- 
/da umnyama, ow' e/dela emfideni. 
Wa puma emfuleni, wa ngena 
ensimini. Nga baleka, mina tshi- 
ntslia, umninisimu, ngi bona um- 
nyama u s' u fika pansi kwami, se 
ku beje eme/dweni ami ; wa ngi 
kxopa ngombala obomvu. Nga 
baleka, nga pumela ngapand/de 
kwensimu. Nga baleka ngokwe- 
saba, ngokuti, " Ukufa loku ; ini 
uba ku ze kumina na 1 ?" Abantu 
ba ti, " Umnyama ukufa ; u ng' eze 
wa /dala kumuntu." Ngoba ke 
umnyama ngemva kwawo wa ngi 
krotsha ensimini, umzimba wami 
wa nje, ukuti, wa nesi/dungu. Se 


I had been watching in the gar- 
den when it was raining. When 
it cleared up, there descended into 
the river a rainbow. It went out 
of the river, and came into the 
garden. I, Utshintsha, the owner 
of the garden, ran away when I 
saw the rainbow now coming near 
me, and dazzling in my eyes ; it 
struck me in the eyes with a red 
colour. I ran away out of the 
garden. I ran away because I was 
afraid, and said, " This is disease ; 46 
why does it come to me ? " Men 
say, " The rainbow is disease. If 
it rests on a man, something will 
happen to him." So, then, after 
the rainbow drove me from the 
garden, my body became as it is 
now, that is, it was affected with 
swellings . 47 And now I consider, 


45 Or death, that is, a cause of death or disease. 

47 He was suffering from a scaly eruption over the whole body. 


THE RAINBOW. 


295 


ngi kcabanga ngokuti, " Ngu wo 
ini na ? " Ba ti, "IT ya mu d/da 
kambe umuntu, a penduke umbala 
o nge wake." 

Ba ti umnyama lo utingo lwen- 
d/du 'nkulu olu vela pezulu, ub' i- 
zulu li nile ; ku ti ku nga vela 
Iona, li buye li se. Ukuzwa kwa- 
mi kambe, ba ya tsho, u hamba 
nenyoka, ukuti lapa u kona, nen- 
yoka i kona. Kepa mina a ngi i 
bonanga. Nabatshoyo ukuti u 
hamba nemvu. A ngi i bonanga. 
Ba ti izanusi, ukutasa kwazo, zi 
ngena emanzini esizibeni ; zi pume 
se zi kcombe udaka, lapa ku ngena 
umnyama ; zi pume ke se zi tasile 
ke, uba se zi izinyanga ke. 

Utshintsha Mguni, 


saying, " Is it the rainbow" [which 
causes the disease] ? They say, it 
injures a man, and his body as- 
sumes a colour which is not natural 
to him. 

Men say the rainbow is one of 
the rods of the great house, which 
appears in the heaven when the 
heaven rains ; when it appears, it 
again becomes fine. As to what I 
have heard, they say it lives with 
a snake, that is, where the rainbow 
is, there also is a snake . 48 But, for 
my part, I did not see any snake. 
And others say, it lives with a 
sheep. But I did not see any 
sheep. They say that diviners, 
when they begiu, enter into a 
deep pool of water ; they come out 
bedaubed with red earth, from the 
place where the rainbow enters ; 
so they come out, being now fully 
prepared to be diviners. 


UMNYAMA. 


(tiie rainbow.) 


Umunyama nami uma ngi zwa 
ngabantu abadala, umnyama u 
iinvu, o puma ezizibeni ezikulu. 
U suk' u suka esizibeni, u /dale 
ngapand/de ematsheni ; u puma 
nxa izulu li suka li /doma ; ukuze 
ke umnyama u pume, u puma 
njalo. Ku ze ku fike umuntu o 
puma kusasa ; a t' ub' e zokufika, 
u m sole ; ba ze 'kuti abantu, " Lo 
'muntu u nezilonda nje ; w enziwe 
umnyama." Ku zo'utiwa, " Nga 
e funelwa inyanga yomnyama, i 
m elape ; u soliwe." 

Ujojo Sosibo. 


As regards the rainbow, I too 
hear old men speaking about it, 
and they say, the rainbow is a 
sheep, which comes out of great 
pools. It comes out of the pool, 
and rests outside on the rocks ; it 
comes out when the sky is cloud- 
ed ; when, then, the rainbow comes 
out, it comes out under these cir- 
cumstances. And there comes a 
man, who goes out in the morn- 
ing ; when he has arrived, it poi- 
sons him ; and men say, " This 
man has an eruption ; he lias been 
poisoned by the rainbow." And 
then it will be said, " A rainbow- 
doctor must be found for him, to 
treat him ; he has been poisoned." 


48 It is worthy of note that among the Dahomans, the word Danh is a 
snake or rainbow, which is an object of worship. Burton says : — " Aydo-whe-do 
— commonly called Danh, the Heavenly Snake, which makes Popo beads and 
confers wealth upon man — is the rainbow." (Mission to Gelele. Vol. 11., p. 
148.^1 And there is a pool near the capital called Danh-to-men, Snake or Itaiu- 
bow-water-in. (Id., p. 242.) 


N N 


29G 


IZINGAXEKWANE. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


The chief's three children . 


Kwa ku kona inkosi etile; ya i 
lime insimu enkulu. Be ku ti 
ngesikati abantu abaningi ba ye 
'kulima leyo 'nsimu. Kepa leyo 
'nkosi ya i nabantwana abatatu 
nje; omkulu ku Usilwane; omu- 
nye ku TJsilwanekazana ; omunye 
ku Untombi-yapansi. Kepa ba be 
tandana Usilwane nosilwaneka- 
zana. 

The chief's son 

Kwa ti ngesinye isikati w' emu- 
ka Usilwane, wa ya 'uzingela ; wa 
buya e pete isilo ; wa ti, " Inja 
yami le ; ni ze ni i pe amasi, ni 
vube ngenkobe zamabele, n' ehze 
isitubi ; 52 ku ti lapa so ku polile 
n i i nike, i dAle ; ngokuba i ya 
'kufa uma ni i nika ku tshisa." 
B' enza njalo njengokutslio kwake. 


There was a certain chief who had 
dug a large field. At the proper 
season many men went to dig the 
garden. That chief had only 
three children ; the eldest was 
called Usilwane ; 49 the second 
Usilwanekazana ; 50 and the other 
Untombi-yapansi. 51 But Usilwane 
and Usilwanekazana loved each 
other. 

crnies a leopard. 

It happened at a certain time 
that Usilwane went to hunt ; he 
returned carrying in his hand a 
leopard ; he said, " This is my 
dog ; give it milk ; mix it with 
boiled corn, and make porridge ; 
and give it its food cold, that it 
may eat ; for it will die if you 
give it hot." They did as he di- 
rected them. 


The people suspect him. 


Ya ze ya kula, kwa ba inja en- 
kulu ; kepa abantu b' esaba kakulu 
ngokuba ku isilo, be ti, "Si za 
'kud/da abantu." Abantu be ti, 
" U za 'kuba umtakati Usilwane." 
Ba ti, " Ini ukuba a fuye isilo, a 
ti inja yake na ? " 


At length the leopard grew ; it 
was a great dog ; and the people 
were very much afraid because it 
was a leopard, saying, "It will 
devour the people. Usilwane will 
become an umtakati. 53 Why does 
he domesticate a leopard and call 
it his dog 1 " 


49 Usilwane , The beast-man. 

50 Usilwanekazana , The little-beast-woman. Usilwanekazi , The beast- 

woman. Usilwanekazana, the diminutive. — There is another version of this 
tale in which the names are different. Usilwane is called Unkoiya ; Usilwane- 
kazana, Ulukozazana, — Little-hen-eagle ; and Untombi-yapansi, Umabelemane, 

Four-breasts. Other differences will be mentioned in their proper place. 

51 Untombi-yapansi, The damsel-of -beneath, or of-the-earth. It may have 
reference to three things : — 1. To poverty or distress ; 2. To origin, — from the 
earth ; 3. To her having travelled underground. 

52 Isitubi, porridge made with milk. 

53 A wizard, — secret poisoner. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


297 


Kepa Usilwanekazana, e Alupe- 
ka ncokuba e zwa abantu be ti 
iimnta kwabo u za 'kuba umtakati, 
wa kcamanga e ti, 44 Konje ngi si 
bulala ngani lesi 'silo na ? " 

His sister kit 

Kwa ti ngolunye usuku kw' e- 
muka abantu bonke ba ya 'kuvuna 
insimu yenkosi. Kwa ti Usilwane 
yena wa ya ezintombini ; Usilwa- 
nekazana wa sala yedwa. Kwa ti 
kusasa wa peka ubisi, lwa za lwa 
bila ; wa tela umkcaba, wa i nika 
inja kasilwane. Ya d/da ya d/da ; 
ya ti lapa se i kgedile ya fa, ngo- 
kuba kwa ku tskisa. 


Usilwane h 

Kwa ti emini wa fika Usilwane, 
wa bona inja yake i file. Wa ti, 
" Silwanekazana, inja yarni i bule- 
we ini na?" Wa ti, "I d/de ku 
tshisa, ya fa." Wa ti Usilwane, 
"Ini u bulala inja yami na ? loku 
kade nga ni tsliela nga ti, 4 Ni nga 
i niki ku tshisa, i ya 'kufa.' U i 
bulele ngamabomu inja yami." 
Wa tata umkonto Usilwane, wa ti 
kusilwanekazana, " Pakamisa um- 
kono, ngi ku gwaze." Wa ti 
Usilwanekazana, 44 Ngoba ng' enze 
ni na ? " Wa ti, " U bulele inja 
yami." Wa ti Usilwanekazana, 
"Ngi i bulele ngokuba abantu be 
ti, 4 U za 'utakata ngayo ? ' " Wa 
ti Usilwane, 44 Kga ! u i bulele nje 
ngokuba u nga i tandi." Wa ti, 
44 Tshetsha, u pakamise umkono, 
ngi ku gwaze." Kepa Usilwane- 
kazana e Ale ka e ti Usilwane u ya 
laula nje ; kepa Usilwane e tuku- 
tele kakulu, wa m bamba, wa m 
pakamisa umkono, wa m gwaza 
pansi kwekwapa. 


But Usilwanekazana being trou- 
bled because she heard the people 
say that a child of her family 
would become an umtakati, said, 
44 With what can I kill this leo- 
pard?" 

's the leopard. 

It came to pass on another day 
that all the people went to harvest 
in the garden of the chief ; and 
Usilwane for his part he had gone 
to visit the damsels ; and Usilwa- 
nekazana remained alone. In the 
morning she cooked milk till it 
boiled, and added to it some 
pounded corn, and gave it to the 
dog of Usilwane. It ate and ate ; 
when it had finished it died, be- 
cause the food was hot. 

'Is his sister. 

Usilwane returned at noon, and 
saw his dog dead. He said, 44 Usi- 
lwanekazana, what has killed my 
dog ? " She replied, 44 It ate food 
whilst still hot, and died." Usi- 
wane said, 44 Why do you kill my 
dog ? for long ago I told you not 
to give it hot food, for it would 
die. You have killed my dog on 
purpose." Usilwane took an assa- 
gai, and said to Usilwanekazana, 
44 Raise your arm, that I may stab 
you." Usilwanekazana replied, 
44 For what evil that I have done?" 
He said, 44 You have killed my 
dog." Usilwanekazana said, 44 1 
killed it because the people said 
you would practise witchcraft by 
it." Usilwane said, 44 No ! you 
killed it because you did not love 
it. Make haste, raise your arm, 
that I may stab you." But Usi- 
lwanekazana laughed, thinking 
that Usilwane was merely jesting ; 
but he, being very angry, laid hold 
of her, raised her arm, and stabbed 
her below the armpit. 


298 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


lie lays her out in < 

Wa tata Usilwane ukamba, \va 
tela kona ububende bukasilwane- 
kazana. Wa buya wa m esula 
ka/de, wa m geza, wa m lalisa 
okcansini lwake ; wa tata isikca- 
melo sake, wa m kcamelisa ngaso ; 
wa m lungisa ekanda, e m tela 
ngamaka, e in k^elisa ; wa m g^iza 
ezand/deni na sezinyaweni ; wa m 
gcoba ngamafuta, wa m embesa 
ingnbo yake. Kwa nga ti u lele 
nje. 

lie mixes his sister's blood w 

W' emuka Usilwane wa ya 'ku- 
tata imvu yake ; wa buya nayo, 
wa i /daba ; wa tela ububende bayo 
okambeni lapa ku kona obukasi- 
lwanekazana ; wa bu /danganisa 
'ndawo nye. Wa /dinza iinvu, wa 
sika ipapu nen/diziyo nesibindi ; 
wa kgobela 'ndawo nye namatumbu 
nomlilwehlwe ; wa peka 'ndawo 
nye kona loko ; kwa vutwa, wa 
beka enzansi kweziko ; wa geza, 
wa /dala. 


n attitude of sleep. 

Usilwane took a pot, and put in 
it the blood of Usilwanekazana. 
He then wiped her carefully, and 
washed her, and laid her on her 
mat ; he took a pillow and placed 
it under her head ; he set in order 
her head, putting scents on it, and 
placing a fillet on her brow • he 
put armlets on her arms, and 
anklets on her legs ; he anointed 
her with fat, and covered her with 
a blanket. It was just as though 
she was asleep. 

Ith sheep's blood, and coolcs it. 

He then went out and took one 
of his sheep, and brought it home 
and killed it ; he poured its blood 
into the vessel which contained 
that of Usilwanekazana, and mix- 
ed it together ; he skinned the 
sheep, and cut out the lungs, the 
heart, and the liver, and chopped 
them up, with the entrails and the 
caul ; he cooked it together ; when 
it was done, he placed it at the 
lower side of the fireplace ; and 
washed himself and sat down. 


lie offers it as food to Untombi-yapansi. 


Ku ti lapa ilanga se li muka wa 
fika Untombi-yapansi. Wa ngena 
end/dini kwabo, wa funyana Usi- 
lwane e 7dezi ; Usilwanekazana e 
lele. Wa ti Usilwane, " Tata, 
nampo ububende, 54 ntombi-yapa- 
nsi, u d7de." Wa ti Untombi- 
yapansi, " Usilwanekazana u lalele 
ni na?" Wa ti Usilwane, "A 
ng' azi. U lele nje." Wa ti 
Untombi-yapansi, " O, ububende 
lobu bu vela pi na ? " Wa ti Usi- 
lwane, "A u i boni imvu leyo 


When the sun was declining, 
Untombi-yapansi came. She en- 
tered her mother's house, and 
found Usilwane sitting, and Usi- 
lwanekazana lying down. Usi- 
lwane said, " Take ; there is food, 
Untombi-yapansi, and eat." Un- 
tombi-yapansi said, " Why is Usi- 
lwanekazana sleeping?" Usilwane 
said, ''I do not know. She is 
merely sleeping." Untombi-ya- 
pansi said, " O, whence did this 
food come?" Usilwane replied, 
"Do you not see that sheep?" 


54 Ububende here means the food made of blood, and viscera ; it is some- 
thing like " sausage meat " or " black-jiudding." 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


299 


na?" Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, 
"I Alatshelwe ni na 1 " Wa ti 
Usilwane, "I /datsliiwe nje." 

She is 'prevented fro 

Wa puma ke Usilwane, wa ya 
elawini lake, wa ya 'ku/dala kona. 
Wa tata Untombi-yapansi ubu- 
bende ; wa ti lapa e za 'kud/da, 
kwa fika kuyena impukane enkulu, 
ya banga umsindo, i ti, " Bu ! bu ! 
ngi pe, ngi ku tshele." A i kape 
ngesand/da. A ti, lapa e za 'ku- 
d/da, i tike masinyane, i ti, " Bu ! 
bu ! ngi pe, ngi ku tshele. " Kv/a 
ti lapa i pinda ugokwesitatu Un- 
tombi-yapansi wa memeza wa ti, 
" We, silwane ! We, silwane ! 
Nausi impukane i ti, ' Bu ! bu ! ' 
a ngi i pe, i ngi tshele." Wa ti 
Usilwane, " I bulale ; i ya ku ko- 
Alisa ; u nga i pi." 


She gives the fly food , and it tel 

Wa pinda futi Untombi-yapansi 
wa ka ububende ; ya banga um- 
sindo omkulu impukane, i ti, 
"Bu! bu ! ngi pe, ngi ku tshele." 
Wa i kapa ngesand/da. Ya buya 
ya pinda futi, ya ti, " Bu ! bu ! 
ngi pe, ngi ku tshele." Kwa ti 
lapa i pinda futi okwesitatu, wa i 
pa ; ya kota, ya ti, " Bheka ; u 
nga bu d/di lobo 'bubende, ngoku- 
ba Usilwane u bulele Usilwaneka- 
zana. Wa ti, ' U be d/dala nge- 
silo sake.' Blieka, Usilwanekazana 
u file ; ububende bake lobo ; nesilo 
si file." 


Untombi-yapansi said, " Why was 
it killed ?" Usilwane replied, " It 
was merely killed." 

m eating it by a fly. 

Then Usilwane went to his own 
house, to wait there. Untombi- 
yapansi took some food ; when she 
was about to eat, there came a 
large fly to her and made a great 
noise and said, " Boo ! boo ! give 
me, and I will tell you." She 
drove it away with her hand. 
When she was again about to eat, 
the fly came immediately and said, 
" Boo ! boo ! give me, and I will 
tell you." When it did thus the 
third time, Untombi-yapansi shout- 
ed, saying, " Here, Usilwane ! 
Here, Usilwane ! There is a fly 
which says ' Boo ! boo ! ' and asks 
me to give it, and it will tell me." 
Usilwane replied, " Kill it ; it is 
deceiving you ; do not give it." 

s her of the murder of her sister. 

Again Untombi-yapansi took 
some of the food ; the fly made a 
great noise, saying, " Boo ! boo ! 
give me, and I will tell you." She 
drove it away with her hand. 
Again it said, " Boo ! boo ! give 
me, and I will tell you." When 
it did so the third time, she gave 
it ; it licked the food and said, 
" Take care ; do not eat this food, 
for Usilwane has killed Usilwane- 
kazana. He said, she killed his 
leopard without cause. See, Usi- 
lwanekazana is dead ; this is her 
blood ; and the leopard is dead." 


She runs away , and is pursued by Usilwane. 


Wa suka masinyane Untombi- 
yapansi ; wa tata ingubo ey embe- 
twe Usilwanekazana, wa m embu- 
la ; wa bona igazi li puma pansi 


Untombi-yapansi at once arose ; 
she took off the blanket with 
which Usilwanekazana was cover- 
ed, and saw the blood flowing from 


300 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


k wekwapa. W a puma n gamand/da 
Untombi-yapansi, wa gijima e ya 
lapa ku kona aoyise naonina. Ku 
te lapa e sen/da kwomuzi, wa pu- 
ma TJsilwane end/dini, wa bona 
Untombi-yapansi en/da kwomuzi. 
Wa memeza TJsilwane e ti, " Mi- 
na lapa, ntombi-yapansi ! u ya 
ngapi na ? " Wa baleka ngama- 
nd/da Untombi-yapansi. Wa m 
landela Usilwane e pete umkonto, 
e ti lapo e ya 'ku m bamba kona, 
u ya 'u m gwaza ngomkonto. 


beneath the armpit. Untombi- 
yapansi rushed out, and ran away 
to her fathers and mothers . 55 
When she was at the upper 
part of the village, Usilwane 
left his house and saw her. He 
called her, saying, " Here, attend 
to me, Untombi-yapansi, where 
are you going 1 ?" Untombi-yapansi 
fled with haste. Usilwane pursued 
her, taking an assagai in his hand, 
thinking when he should catch 
her, he would stab her with it. 


U ntombi-ycipansi escapes. 


Wa ti lapa e seduze kakulu 
Usilwane, Untombi-yapansi wa ti, 
" Dabuka, m/daba, ngi ngene, ngo- 
kuba ngi za 'kufa namu/da." Wa 
dabuka um/daba, wa ngena Un- 
tombi-yapansi. Wa ti lapo Usi- 
lwane e se fika lapo, wa funa, e 
nga ni boui lapo e tshone kona 
Untombi-yapansi ; wa ti Usilwane, 
" Hau ! hau ! u tshone pi, loku 
ngi te ngi lapaya wa e lapa na ? " 
A ka be e sa m bona. Wa buyela 
emva Usilwane. 


| When Usilwane was very near 
her, Untombi-yapansi said, "Open, 
earth, that I may enter , 56 for I am 
about to die this day." The earth 
opened, and Untombi-yapansi en- 
tered. When Usilwane came 
there, he sought, but could not see 
where Untombi-yapansi had de- 
scended ; he said, " Hau ! hau ! 
where did she descend ! for I 
thought when I was yonder, she 
was here." He was no longer able 
to see her. He went back again. 


She goes near the chiefs garden and gives an alarm. 


Wa hamba Untombi-yapansi; 
kwa ti lapa so ku /dwile wa lala, 
e nga pumanga pansi. Kwa ti 
kusasa wa vuka futi, wa hamba. 
Kwa ti lapa se ku semini kakulu 
wa puma pansi, wa ye w' ema ega- 
ngeni, wa memeza e ti, " U so ya 
yiyayiya 57 yedwa kwela nonyaka ; 


Untombi-yapansi went on; when 
it was evening she slept, not hav- 
ing come out from the earth. In 
the morning she awoke, and again 
went on. When it was midday 
she came out of the earth, and 
went and stood on a small eleva- 
tion, and shouted, saying, " There 
will be nothing but weeping 
this summer . 58 Usilwanekaza- 


55 The brothers of the father are called fathers ; and the father's polygamic 
wives, mothers. 

56 See Appendix. 

57 Yiyayiya for lilalila ; in Isik^wabe dialect. 

58 The u here does not refer to any particular person, but to the people of 
the chief *in general. The natives say on such occasions, "U ya 'kuba Umaye- 
maye kwela nonyaka," " There will come TJmayemaye this summer," Umaye- 
maye being a name personifying mourning. ' ' The woe-woe-man will come this 
summer." 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


301 


Usilwanekazana u bulewe Usil wa- 
ne ; u ti, u be d Alai a ngengomende 
yenkosi." Sa ti isalukazi esi lapo 
embutisweni, 44 Kungati ku kona 
oku lengezayo, ku ti Usilwaneka- 
zana u bulewe Usil wane ; u be 
dAlala ngengomende yenkosi." Ya 
ti inkosi, " Si tate ni, ni si ponse 
emnceleni." Ba si tata, ba si bu- 
lala, ba si ponsa emnceleni ; ngo- 
kuba be ti, 44 Si Alolela umntwana 
wenkosi." 


She goes to another j, 

Wa pinda wa d/dula lapo Un- 
tombi-yapansi, wa fika kwelinye 
iganga, wa ti, "U so ya yiyayiya 
yedwa kwela nonyaka. Usilwa- 
nekazana u bulewe Usilwane ; u 
be dAlala ngengomende yenkosi." 
La ti ikreku, 44 Ku kona oku le- 
ngezayo ; ku nga ti ku ti, 4 U so 
yiyayiya yedwa kwela nonyaka. 
Usilwanekazana u bulewe Usilwa- 
ne ; u ti, u be dAlala ngengomende 
yenkosi.' " Ya ti inkosi, 44 Li tate 
ni, ni li ponse ngapandAle kwom- 
ncele." Ba li tata, ba li ponsa 
emnceleni. 


A ll the people run to her w) 

Kwa ti, lapo w' esuka futi Un- 
tombi-yapansi, wa ya eduze nabo, 
wa memeza e ti, 44 U so ya yiya 
yedwa kwela nonyaka. Usilwa- 
nekazana u bulewe Usilwane ; u 

59 Ingorri-ende, the name here gn 


na has been murdered by Usi* 
lwane ; he says, she has killed the 
prince's leopard 59 without cause." 
An old woman which was in the 
royal garden said, 44 It sounds as 
though some one was shouting afar 
off, saying, 4 Usilwanekazana has 
been killed by Usilwane ; she has 
killed the prince's leopard without 
cause.' " The king said, 44 Seize 
her, and cast her outside the gar- 
den." They seized her, and killed 
her, and cast her outside the gar- 
den ; for they said she was pro- 
phesying evil against the king's 
cliild. 

ace and shouts again. 

Again Untombi-yapansi passed 
onward from that place, and went 
to another small elevation, and 
cried, 44 There will be nothing 
but weeping this summer. Usi- 
lwanekazana has been murder- 
ed by Usilwane ; he says, she 
has killed the prince's leopard 
without cause. An old man said, 
44 There is some one shouting afar 
off ; it is as if it was said, 
4 There will be nothing but weep- 
ing this summer. Usilwaneka- 
zana has been killed by Usilwane ; 
he says she has killed the prince's 
leopard without cause.' " The 
chief said, 44 Seize him, and cast 
him outside the garden." They 
seized him, and cast him out. 

m she shouts the third time „ 

Untombi-yapansi then again 
departed and went near them, 
and shouted, saying, 44 There will 
be nothing but 'weeping this sum- 
mer. Usilwanekazana has been 
killed by Usilwane ; he says she 

n to the leopard, means a long wedding 


song. 


302 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ti, u be d/Jala ngengomende yen- 
kosi." Kwa ti lapo bonke a bantu 
b' ezwa ukutslio kwake, ba kala 
bonke, ba baleka, ba ya kuyena, 
ba ti, "U ti ni na?" Wa ti, 
" Usilwanekazana u bulewe Usi- 
lwane ; u ti, u be d/dala ngengo- 
mende yenkosi." 


has killed the prince's leopard 
without cause." When all the 
people heard that, they all cried, 
and ran towards her, and said, 
" What do you say ? " She re- 
plied, " Usilwanekazana has been 
killed by Usilwane ; she has killed 
the prince's leopard without cause." 


Usilwane is seized and bound. 


Ba buya abantu bonke, ba ya 
ekaya. Ba fika, wa baleka Usi- 
lwane ; ba m biza, ba ti, " Buya 
wena ; u s' u ti ku kona abantu 
aba fa bonke na? 60 Wena u se 
z' 'ubulawa." 61 Wa buya Usil wa- 
ne, wa ngena end/dini. Ba m 
bamba, ba m bopa, ba ti, £< U za 
'kwenziwa njani na ? " Ya ti in- 
kosi, " Yala ni emnyango, ni tshise 
ind/du, ku ze ku tshe tin a soba- 
tatn. Kepa wena, ntombi-yapansi, 
hamba u ye kodade w^enu, u ye 
'ku/dala kona ; ngokuba mina no- 
nyoko si za 'kutsha nend/du ; ngo- 
kuba a si tandi ukuliamba, ngo- 
kuba Usilwanekazana u file, nati 
si za 'kufa kanye naye." 


All the men went home. When 
they arrived, Usilwane fled; they 
called him, saying, " Come back ; 
do you think that there is any 
reason why all the people should 
be killed ? You are not about to 
be killed." Usilwane came back, 
and went into the house. They 
laid hold of him, and bound him, 
and said, "What is to be done 
with him 1 " The king said, 
" Close the door, and set fire to 
the house, that we three may be 
burnt. 62 But you, Untombi-ya- 
pansi, go to your sister, 63 and live 
with her ; for I and your mother 
shall be burnt 64 with the house ; 
for we do not wish to live, because 
Usilwanekazana is dead, and we 
too will die with her." 


Usilwane •pleads in vain. 


Wa ti Usilwane, " Mina ; musa 
ni uku ngi tshisa nend/Ju ; ngi 
gwaze ni ngomkonto." Ya ti in- 
kosi, " K^a, mntanami ; ngi za 'ku 


Usilwane said, " Attend to me ; 
do not burn me with the house ; 
stab me with an assagai." The 
cliief said, " No, my child ; I will 


60 U s' u ti ku kona abantu aba ka ba fa ngako bonke na ? — This would be 
the full form of the sentence. It is meant by the question to say, that he need 
not imagine that one murder — namely, his own — will be added to the murder 
already committed. 

01 Wena, u se z' ubulawa, for , a ku se z' ubulawa. 

62 We three — namely, himself, wife, and Usilwane. 

63 The name of this sister in the other tale is given. It is Umkindinkomo, 
— Cow-hip-dress ; because the hip-dress she wore was made of a cowhide. 

04 In the other version the father is represented as arming and fighting 
with Unkoiya, who also arms. Unkoiya first hurls his lance, but it falls short ; 
the father's pierces Unkoiya with a fatal wound. But subsequently, without 
any reason being given, the father, mother, and village are burnt. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


303 


ku zwisa ubu/dungu obukulu ka- 
kulu, ugokuba u wena o bulele 
unmtanami." 


cause you to feel very great pain, 
for it is you who have murdered 
my child." 


The chief sends Untombi-ycipansi to her sister. 


Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, " Ngi 
za 'kuhamba nobani na ? " Wa ti 
uyise, "Tata inkabi yakwenu, u 
kwele pezu kwayo, u hambe. Kwo 
ti lapo u pezulu okalweni u ya 
'kuzwa ukuduma okukulu kwoku- 
tsha kwomuzi ; u nga bheki ngase- 
muva, u hambe nje." 


Untombi-yapansi said, " With 
whom shall I go ? " Her hither 
replied, " Take your ox, mount it 
and go. When you are on the 
top of the hill, you will hear the 
great roaring of the burning vil- 
lage ; do not look back, but go on." 


She meets with an imbulu, who deceives her. 


Wa hamba e kwele enkabini. 
Kwa ti lapa e sokalweni w' ezwa 
ukuduma kwomlilo. Wa kala, e 
ti, " Konje lolo Tudumo olungako 
ku tsha uma nobaba." Wa hamba 
wa ye wa fika emfuleni omkulu. 
Wa fika lapo, kwa vela imbulu ; 
ya ti, " Dade, ntombi-yapansi, ake 
w e/ilike lapa enkabini yako, ngi 
kwele, ngi bone uma ku nga ngi 
fanela ini na ? " Wa ti, " K^a ; a 
ngi tandi ukwe/dika." Ya ti, 
" Ku nani na ? " Kepa Untombi- 
yapansi wa e kw azi ngapambili 
ukuba imbulu i za 'uvela lapo ; 
ngokuba unina wa e m tsheliie, 
wa ti, " Uma inkabi i nyatele pezu 
kwelitshe, imbulu i ya 'upuina 
kona." Ngaloko ke w' esaba 
ukweAlika enkabini. Wa ti lapo, 
" Suka, ngi d/dule." Ya ti im- 
bulu, " Hau ! Ngi tsheleke, ngi 
bone uma ku ya 'u ngi fanela ini 
na?" W' e/dika. Ya ti, " Leti 
izinto zako, ngi fake, ngi bone uma 


She went, riding on the ox. 
When she was on the hill, she 
heard the roaring of the lire. She 
wept, saying, " So then I hear this 
great roaring ; my mother and 
father are burning." She went on, 
and came to a great river. When 
she came to it, there appeared an 
imbulu, and said, " Princess, Un- 
tombi-yapansi, just come down 
here from your ox, that I may get 
up, and see if it becomes, jne or 
not?" She replied, "No; I do 
not wish to dismount." The im- 
bulu said, " What is the matter ? " 
But Untombi-yapansi knew 65 be- 
forehand that an imbulu would 
appear at that place ; for her mo- 
ther had told her, saying, " If the 
ox treads on a stone, an imbulu 
will come out at that place." She 
was therefore afraid to dismount 
from the ox. So she said, " Get 
out of the way, and let me pass 
on." The imbulu said, " Hau ! 
Lend me the ox, that I may see if 
it is suitable for me ? " She dis- 
mounted. The imbulu said, "Hand 
me your things, that I may put 


65 The words with which she is warned before setting out are given in the 
other version : — " Ba ti, a nga li tinti itshe eli sendMeleni. " They told her not 
to tread on a certain stone which was in the path." This is much more precise, 
and gives us the idea not distinctly brought out in the above, that there was a 
certain stone known as being the haunt of some magical evil power. 

o o 


304 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ku ya 'u ngi fanela ini na ?" Wa 
i nika zonke izinto. Yabinca im- 
bulu, ya kwela enkabini, ya ti, 
" We, kwa ngi fanela ! " 


them on and see if they are suit- 
able for me ? " She gave the im- 
bulu all her things. The imbulu 
put them on, and mounted the 
ox, and said, " Oh, how they be- 
come me ! " 


The imbulu gives her a new name. 


Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, "Ye- 
Alika ke, u lete izinto zami, ngi 
kwele." Ya ti, "A ngi tandi. U 
ngi tshelekele ni na?" Wa ti, 
" Ku tsho wena, ukuti, a ngi ku 
tsheleke." Ya ti imbulu, " A ngi 
tandi." Ya ti imbulu, " A s' ekge 
lapa ematsheni, si bone o ya 'kuba 
nenyawo ezi 'manzi." Y' ekga 
imbulu ; kepa yena Untombi-ya- 
pansi wa hamba emanzini, ngokuba 
a ka kweli 'ndawo. 


Kwa ti lapa se be welile ya ti 
imbulu, " Ezako inyawo zi 'manzi; 
manje wena igama lako Umsila- 
wezinja. U mina manje Untombi- 
yapansi." Kepa Untombi-yapansi 
a ka pendulanga 'luto, wa tula nje. 
Ya hamba imbulu, i kwele enka- 
bini, 'eza ngemva Untombi-ya- 
pansi. 

They reach the 

Ba ya ba fika lapo w' endela 
udade wabo kantombi-yapansi. 
Ba ngena ekaya, b' enyuka, ba ya 
ngasen/da. Ya fika ya ngena im- 
bulu, naye Untombi-yapansi wa 
ngena. Ya ti imbulu, " Musa 
ukungena, Bamba inkabi yami." 
Wa i bamba Untombi-yapansi ; ya 
Alala imbulu. 


Untombi-yapansi said, " Dis- 
mount now, and give me my 
things, that I may get up." The 
imbulu said, " I do not wish to 
get down. Why did you lend it 
tome?" She replied, "You ask- 
ed me to lend it to you." The 
imbulu said, "I do not wish to 
get down. Let us leap here on 
the stones, and see which will 
have wet feet." The imbulu leapt ; 
but Untombi-yapansi walked in 
the water, because she was not 
mounted on any thing." 

When they had passed across, 
the imbulu said, " It is your feet 
that are wet ; now your name is 
Umsila-wezinja . 66 And I am now 
Untombi-yapansi." But Untombi- 
yapansi made no answer ; she was 
silent. The imbulu went on, 
riding on the ox, and Untombi- 
yapansi coming after on foot. 

sister's village . 

They went on, and came to the 
place where the sister of Untombi- 
yapansi was married. They en- 
tered the village, and went to the 
upper part of it. The imbulu 
went into a house, and Untombi- 
yapansi also went in. The imbulu 
said, " Don't come in. Hold my 
ox." Untombi-yapansi held the 
ox ; the imbulu sat down. 


6 Umsila-wezinja, Doga' -tail. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


305 


The imbulu deceives her . 


Wa buza udade wabo kantombi- 
yapansi, wa ti, " U ubani n a?" 
Ya ti imbulu, " U mina, mnta- 
kwetu. Hau ! a u ngi boni ini 
na ? " Wa ti, " K^a ; a ngi ku 
boni ; ngokuba owakwetu um- 
ntwana nga m shiya enmcinane ; 
ngi ya 1' azi kodwa igama lake. 
Kepa futi urazimba wake wa u 
kazimula, ngokuba wa u itusi." 
Ya ti imbulu, " Mina nga gula 
kakulu. Igama lami ng' Untombi- 
yapansi. Umzimba wami so wa 
pela lowo o itusi." Wa kala udade 
wabo, e ti, " Hau ! Kanti umnta- 
kwetu Iona na 1 ?" 

Wa ti udade wabo, " Kepa Iona 
o semnyango u vela pi yena na ? " 
Ya ti, " Into nje ; nga i tola lapa 
emfuleni, i hamba pansi nje." Wa 
ti, "Ngi ku pe ukudAla na ?" Ya 
ti, " Yebo ; ngi lambile." Wa i 
pa isijingi. Ya dAla. Wa ti, 
" Biza umuntu wako Iowa, ngi mu 
pe ; nangu umlaza." Ya ti, " Mu 
nike kona emnyango lapaya." Wa 
ti umyeni wake, " K^a, niusa uku 
mu pa umuntu pand/de ; u m nge- 
nise end/ilini, a d/dele kona." 
Warn biza, wa ti, " Ubani igama 
lake na ? " Ya ti imbulu, " Um- 
sila-wezinja." Wa ti udade wabo, 
" Ngena, u zokud/da, msila-we- 
zinja." 


The sister of Untombi-yapansi 
asked, " Who are you 1 " The 
imbulu replied, " It is I, child of 
our house. Hau ! do you not 
recognise me 1 " She said, " No ; 
I do not recognise you ; for the 
child of our house I left when she 
was still young ; I know nothing 
but her name. But, besides, her 
body glistened, for she was like 
brass." The imbulu said, "I was 
very ill. I am Untombi-yapansi. 
I no longer have that body of mine 
which was like brass." Her sister 
wept, saying, " Hau ! Forsooth is 
this the child of our house 'i " 

Her sister said, " And she who 
is at the doorway, whence does she 
come h " The imbulu said, " It is 
a mere thing. I fell in with it at 
the river ; it was merely going on 
foot." She said, " May I give 
you food ? " The imbulu replied, 
" Yes ; I am hungry." She gave 
it porridge. It ate. She said, 
" Call your servant yonder, that I 
may give her ; here is some 
whey." 67 The imbulu said, " Give 
it to her there in the doorway." 
Her husband said, "No, do not 
give food to the person outside ; 
bring her into the house, that she 
may eat here." She called her, 
saying, " What is her name 'l " 
The imbulu replied, " Umsila-we- 
zinja." Her sister said, " Come 
and eat, Umsila-wezinja." 


Untombi-yapansi wastes the food. 


Wa ngena end/dini ; wa tata 
ukamba lwabantwana udade wabo, 
wa m nika ngalo umlaza. Ya ti 
imbulu, " Kga ! k^a ! Musa uku 


She went in ; her sister took a 
child's vessel, and gave her some 
whey in it. The imbulu said, 
"No! no! Child of our house, 


67 The story makes it clear however that we are not to understand simple 
whey, but whey mixed with ground mealies. Poor people and dependents only 
eat ground mealies mixed with whey ; superiors use amasi. 


30G 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


m nika okambeni lwabantabako, 
mnta-kwetu ; u ni telele pansi nje, 
a dAlele kona." Wa ti umkwenya 
wabo, " K^a, musa uku m telela 
pansi umuntu, u m kangeze eza- 
ndAleni." Wa ka ngokezo udade 
wabo, wa ra kangeza. Kepa Un- 
tombi-yapansi wa pa/da insika 
ngezand/da zake, wa m kangeza 
udade wabo ; ku ti lapa e se k qe- 
dile uku m kangeza, a yeke iza- 
nd/da, a kciteke amasi ; a tete a ti, 
" Ini ukuba ngi ku kangeze amasi 
ami, u wa kcite na h " A ti, 
" Kw' enza, ngokuba ngi kangeza, 
ngi pa/de insika." Wa mu pa 
inkobe ; wa d/da. Ba lala. 


do not give it to her in the vessel 
of your children ; pour it for her 
on the ground, that she may eat it 
there." Her brother-in-law said, 
"No, do not pour food for a person 
on the ground ; give it to her in 
her hands." Her sister dipped it 
out with a spoon, and poured it 
into her hands. But Untombi- 
yapansi put her hands round the 
pillar of the house, and her sister 
put it into her hands ; when she 
had finished, she separated her 
hands, and the amasi was spilt. 
Her sister scolded, saying, " How 
is it tliat I pour my amasi 68 into 
your hands, and you throw it 
away?" She replied, "It is be- 
cause, when I stretched out my 
hands, I placed them on each side 
of the pillar." 69 She gave her 
boiled mealies ; she ate ; and they 
retired to rest. 


She is sent to watch the garden . 


In the morning the sister of 
Untombi-yapansi said, " I am in 
trouble because there is no one to 
watch for me ; the birds trouble 
me in my garden." The imbulu 
said, "There is Umsila-wezinja ; 
let her too go with those who 
watch, that she may watch for 
you." She said, "Well, go." 
Untombi-yapansi went with Uda- 
1 lana. 70 

68 The sister here magnifies her gift by calling the whey amasi. Untombi- 
yapansi acts thus because it was not proper for her to eat the milk belonging to 
her brother-in-law. See Note 95, p. 164. The Imbulu has no regard for such 
customs. 

69 In the other version, it is groundnuts which are given to her. She takes 

but one out of the vessel, and all the rest disappear. It is thus, and not by 
dropping whey, that she fixes attention on herself. The chief exclaims, "Lolu 
udodovu lwenkosikazi lu tate yanye ind/dubu, za pela zonke esitsheni. " ' ' This 

skinny one of the queen has taken one groundnut, and no more are left in the 
dish." She thus also manifests her magical power, which is brought out so 
much afterwards. 

70 Udalancu, Little-old-one. 


Ku te kusasa wa ti udade wabo 
kantombi-yapansi, " Ngi ya Alu- 
peka ngokuba ku nge ko 'rnuntu o 
ngi lindelayo ; zi ya ngi Alupa 
izinyoni ensimini kwami." Ya ti 
imbulu, "Nangu Umsila-wezinja ; 
a ka hambe naba ya 'kulinda naye, 
a ye 'ku ku lindela." Wa ti, 
" Hamba ke." Wa hamba Un- 
tombi-yapansi kanye nodalana. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


307 


Ba fika ngapand/de kwomuzi, 
w' ema Untombi-yapansi, wa ti, 
" DAlula wena, dalana." Wa 
d Alula Udalana ; ba hamba, ba 
fika emasimini. Kepa Udalana e 
ya kwabo insimu, ya i ngasen/da ; 
kepa leyo e lindwa Untombi-ya- 
pansi ya i ugenzansi, amakadba e 
bhekene. Inyoni ziningi kakulu ; 
kwa ti be sa fika, za fika. Wa zi 
ponsa Udalana, wa ti, " Nazo, 
msila-wezinja." Wa ti Untombi- 
yapansi, " Tayi, tayi, lezo 'nyoni 
ezi d/da insimu kadade, kona e 
nge 'dade ngasibili, ngoba se ngi 
Umsila-wezinja. Nga ngi nge 
'msila-wezinja ngempela ; nga ngi 
Untombi-yapansi." Z' esuka ma- 
sinye izinyoni njengokutslio kwa- 
ke. Ba Alala irnini yonke izinyoni 
zi nge ko. Kepa Udalana wa 
mangala kakulu ngokuba e bona 
izinyoni zi nge ko, loku zi m Alupa 
kangaka yonke imiAla. 


She is visited by 

Wa ti Untombi-yapansi lapa se 
ku semini kakulu, wa ti, " U ze u 
ngi ponsele, dalana ; ngi sa ya 
'kugeza." Wa hamba wa ya em- 
fuleni ; wa fika wa ngena pakati 
esizibeni, wa geza ; wa puma um- 
zimba wonke wake u kanya itusi, 
e pete induku yake yetusi. Wa 
tshaya pansi, wa ti, " Puma ni 
nonke, bantu bakababa nenkomo 
zikababa, nokudAla kwami." Kwa 
puma abantu abaningi nenkomo 
eziningi, nokudAla kwake. Wa 


71 In the other version, the dead, — ' 
are among the company. 


When they came outside the 
village Untombi-yapansi stopped 
and said, " Do you go before, 
Udalana." Udalana went on ; 
they reached the gardens. U dalana 
went to the garden belonging to 
her house, which was high up ; 
and that which was watched by 
Untombi-yapansi was low down, 
and the watch-houses were oppo- 
site each other. The birds were 
very numerous. As they were 
entering the garden the birds 
came ; Udalana threw stones at 
them, and said, " There they are, 
U msila-wezinj a. " U ntombi-y apa- 
nsi said, " Tayi, tayi, those birds 
which devour my sister's garden, 
although she is not my sister truly, 
for I am now Umsila-wezinja. I 
was not really Umsila-wezinja ; I 
was Untombi-yapansi." The birds 
went away immediately in accord- 
ance with her word. They re- 
mained the whole day without any 
birds coming. And Udalana won- 
dered much when she saw that 
there were not any birds, since 
they troubled her so much every 
day. 

strange guests. 

When it was midday Untombi- 
yapansi said, "Do you throw 
stones at the birds for me, Udala- 
na ; I am now going to bathe." 
She went to the river ; when she 
came to it, she went into a pool 
and washed; she came out with 
her whole body shining like brass, 
and holding in her hand her brass 
rod. She smote the ground and 
said, " Come out, all ye people of 
my father, and cattle of my father, 
and my food." There at once came 
out of the earth many people , 71 
and many cattle, and her food. 

ler father, mother, and Ulukozazana, — 


308 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


dAla. Kwa puma nenkabi yake, 
wa kwela pezu kwayo, wa ti, 

" Enkimd/deni kababa sa si ti 
E-a-ye ; 

Kwezi-matshoba am/dope sa si ti 
E-a-ye." 

Kwa vuma abantu bonke kanye 
neziAlaAla, zi m vumela. Kwa ti 
lapa e se kgedile konke loko, w' e- 
Alika eukabini yake ; wa tshaya 
ngenduku yake pansi, wa ti, " Da- 
buka, m/daba, ku ugene izinto 
zikababa nabantu bake." Nembala 
umAlaba wa dabuka, kwa ngena 
izinto zonke nabantu. 


I She ate. Her own ox also came 
out ; she mounted it and said, 

" In my father's cattle-pen we used 
to sing E-a-ye ; 

Among the white-tailed cattle 
we used to sing E-a-ye." 

All the people, together with the 
trees, took up the song, singing in 
unison with her. When she had 
done all this, she descended from 
her ox ; she smote the ground 
with her rod, and said, " Open, 
earth, that my father's things and 
his people may enter." And truly 
the earth opened, and all the 
things and men entered. 


She returns to the garden and Udalana wonders. 


Wa buya wa tata umAlaba 
omnyama, wa zibekca ngawo em- 
zimbeni, wa ba njengaloku e be 
njalo. Wa kupuka, wa ya ensi- 
mini, wa ngena ekscibeni. Wa ti, 
" Kade zi kona ini izinyoni na ? " 
Wa ti Udalana, " Au ! we ba- 
nd/da ! u bona ngoba e ngi shiye 
nezinyoni eziningi ngedwa na?" 
Ba ti be sa kuluma wa fika um- 
/dambi omkulu wezinyoni. Wa ti 
Udalana, "Nazo, msila-wezinja." 
Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, " Tayi, 
tayi, leziya 'nyoni ezi d/da insimu 
kadade. Kona e nge 'dade ngasi- 
bili ; kona se ngi Umsila-wezinja ; 
nga ngi nge Umsila-wezinja ngasi- 
bili ; nga ngi Untombi-yapansi." 
Z' esuka masinya izinyoni njengo- 
kutsho kwake. 


Again she took some black eartli 
and smeared her body with it, and 
was as she was before. She went 
up from the river to the garden, 
and went into the watch-house. 
She said, " Have the birds been 
here some time ? " Udalana said, 
"Au! by the council! does she 
see because she left me alone with 
many birds ? " As they were still 
speaking a large flock of birds 
came. Udalana said, " There they 
are, Umsila-wezinja." Untombi- 
yapansi said, " Tayi, tayi, you 
birds yonder which devour my 
sister's garden. Although she is 
not my sister truly ; although I 
am now Umsila-wezinja; I was 
not truly Umsila-wezinja ; I was 
Untombi-yapansi ." 72 The birds at 
once went away in accordance 
with her word. 


72 In the other version it is very different ; she does not protect the garden, 
but gives it up to the birds. " Za fika izinyoni, za wela ensimini. Wa ti, ' Tai, 
tai, tai ; insimu kadade. Kona zi wa d/da, a zi wa kryedi. ' A kwa sala nanxa 
li linye. Kwa ti nya. Ba ti, * Insimu yenkosi u i nika izinyoni.' " " The birds 
came, and dropped into the garden. She said, ' Tai, tai, tai ; it is my sister's 
garden. Though they eat the corn, they do not eat it all up. ' They ate it all ; 
there did not remain one ear of corn ; the garden was utterly desolate. The 
people said, ' She gives the king's garden to the birds.' " 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


309 


Kepa Udalana e mangala ka- 
kulu u loku 'kutsho kwake, a ti, "U 
ti ni, yebuya, msila-wezinja, na ? " 
A ti U n tombi-y apan si, " A ngi ti 
'lii to." W' euka Udalana kwelake 
ik&iba, wa ya kwelikautombi-ya- 
pansi, wa ti, " Hau ! wena u d/de- 
la pi, msila-wezinja, na?" Wa ti 
Untombi-yapansi, " U tsho ngani 
na?" Wa ti, "Ngi tsho ngoba 
ngi nga boni izala lako lapo n 
d/dela kona." Wa ti Untombi- 
yapansi, " Ngi ya d/da nje." 

Kwa tshona ilanga, ba buya ba 
ya ekaya. Ba fika, ya bnza inkosi 
ya ti, " Be zi kona inyoni, msila- 
wezinja, na?" Wa ti Untombi- 
yapansi, " Ehe ; be ziningi kaku- 
lu." Ya ti imbuln, " Ukuma 
kwake yena. Umsila-wezinja u za 
'kuAlala pansi nje, i ze i d/diwe 
izinyoni. Ku ti lapo se i pelile, u 
ti w a/dulwe izinyoni." Ba /dala ; 
ba lala. 


U dalana mak 

Kwa ti kusasa ba hamba ba ya 
'knlinda. Kwa ti lapa be sesa- 
ngweni w' ema Untombi-yapansi, 
wa ti, " D/dula." Wa ti Udalana, 
" Hau ! wena u nani um a u d/dule 
na ? Zonke insuku ku hamba 
mina pambili." Kepa Untombi- 
yapansi wa e saba ukud/dula ngo- 
kuba uinbete u ya m esula umuti 
Iowa a u gcoba emzimbeni ukuze 
itusi li nga kanyi, ba m bone aba- 
ntu. Wa d/dula Udalana. Ba 
fika emasimini, ba /dala. Wa ti 
Udalana, " Nazo, msila-wezinja." 
Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, " Tayi, 
tayi, lezo 'nyoni ezi d/da insimu 
kadade ; kona e nge 'dade ngam- 
pela^ kepa kwa ku udade." 


But Udalana wondered much at 
that saying of hers, and said, " I 
say, Umsila-wezinja, what are you 
saying?" Untombi-yapansi re- 
plied, " I say nothing." Udalana 
descended from her watch-house, 
and went to that of Untombi- 
yapansi, and said to her, " Hau ! 
where have you eaten, Umsila- 
wezinja?" Untombi-yapansi said, 
" Why do you ask ?" She replied, 
" I ask because I do not see the 
refuse of the sugar-cane where you 
have eaten." Untombi-yapansi 
said, "I have eaten." 

The sun set ; they returned 
home. When they arrived the 
chief asked, saying, "Were there 
any birds there, Umsila-wezinja?" 
Untombi-yapansi replied, "Yes; 
there were very many indeed." 
The imbulu said, " This is her 
custom. Umsila-wezinja will just 
sit on the ground, until the garden 
is utterly destroyed by the birds. 
And when it is all gone, she says 
she has been worsted by the birds." 
They sat ; they retired to rest. 

s a discovery. 

In the morning they went to 
watch. When they were at the 
gateway Untombi-yapansi stood 
still and said, " Go on." Udalana 
replied, " Hau ! what happens to 
you if you go first ? Every day I 
go in front." But Untombi-yapa- 
nsi was afraid to go first because 
the dew wiped off that with which 
she smeared her body, that the 
brass-colour may not glisten, and 
people recognise her. Udalana 
went on. They came to the garden 
and sat down. Udalana said, 
" There they are, Umsila-wezinja." 
Untombi-yapansi said, " Tayi, 
tayi those birds which devour my 
sister's garden ; although she is 
not my sister truly ; but she was 
my sister." 


310 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Wa ti, " Hlala, u bhekilewena, 
dalana ; ngi sa liamba ngi ya 'ku- 
geza." Wa hamba. Kwa ti lapa 
e se harabile Untombi-yapansi, wa 
landela ngasemuva Udalana, wa 
ye wa fika emfuleni naye. Wa 
fika Untombi-yapansi, wa ngena 
esizibeni, wa puma umzimba wake 
u kazimula, e pete induku yake 
yetusi. Wa mangala Udalana 
ngokubona loko. KepaUntombi- 
yapansi wa e nga m boni Udalana, 
ngokuba wa e kcatsliile. Wa tata 
induku yake Untombi-yapansi, wa 
tsliaya pansi, wa ti, " Dabuka, 
mAlaba, ngi bone izinto zikababa, 
zi pume zonke nabantu bakababa, 
nezinto zarni nezinkomo. ,, Kwa 
puma konke loko njengokutsho 
kwake. Kwa vela nokud/da ; wa 
d/da. Wa tata ingubo yake i k^a- 
tshelwe ngezindondo, wa i binca, 
wa kwela enkabini yake, e Mobile* 
Wa ti, 


" Enkund/deni kababa sa si ti 
E-a-ye ; 

Kwezi-matsboba abomvu sa si ti 
E-a-ye." 

Ba vuma bonke kanye nezi/da/da 
ngaloko. Udalana w' esaba, wa 
tutumela ngokuba kwa ku ngatiti 
nom/daba u ya zamazama. 

Kwa ti lapo Untombi-yapansi e 
s' e/dika enkabini, wa buya pam- 
bili Udalana, wa fika kuk^ala 
ensimini. Kepa Untombi-yapansi 
wa ti, " A ku tshone konke loko 
pansi." Kwa tshona konke. Wa 
zibekca ngomuti emzimbeni wake, 
wa buya wa ya ensimini. Wa 
fika wa ti, " Kade zi kona ini 
izinyoni, dalana, na ? " Wa ti 
Udalana, " Kade u /dalele ni em- 
fuleni wena na?" Wa ti Un- 
tombi-yapansi, " A u boni ini uma 
mina a ngi kw azi ukugeza masi- 
nya, ngoba umzimba wami mubi, 
umnyama kakulu na?" 


She said, " Stay and watch, 
Udalana ; I am now going to 
bathe." She went. When Un- 
tombi-yapansi had gone, Udalana 
went after her, and she too went 
to the river. When Untombi- 
yapansi came to the river she 
entered the pool, and came out 
with her body glistening, and car- 
rying in her hand her brass rod. 
Udalana wondered when she saw 
this. But Untombi-yapansi did 
not see Udalana, for she had con- 
cealed herself. Untombi-yapansi 
took her rod and smote the ground 
and said, " Open, earth, that I 
may see the things of my father ; 
that all may come out, and my 
father's people, and my things and 
the cattle." All these things came 
out in accordance with her saying. 
Food also came out ; she ate. She 
took her garment which was orna- 
mented with brass balls, she put it 
on, and mounted her ox, having 
adorned herself. She said, 

" In my father's cattle-pen we used 
to sing E-a-ye ; 

Among the red-tailed cattle we 
used to sing E-a-ye." 

All the people and the trees took 
up the song. Udalana was afraid, 
and trembled ; for it was as if the 
very earth was moving. 

When Untombi-yapansi was 
getting down from her ox, Udalana 
went back before her and came 
first to the garden. And Untombi- 
yapansi said, " Let it all sink into 
the ground." Every thing sank 
into the ground. She smeared her 
body, and returned to the garden. 
When she came she said, " Have 
the birds been long here, Udala- 
na ? " Udalana said, " Why have 
you staid so long at the river ? " 
Untombi-yapansi replied, " Do you 
not see that I cannot wash quickly, 
for my body is dirty and very 
black?" 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


311 


W' esuka Udalana wa ya ekcci- 
beni lapa ku kona Untombi-yapa- 
nsi, wa /tlala kuyena, e in buka 
emzimbeni wonke ; kepa a nga 
boni lapo ku kona ibala eli kazi- 
mulayo. A mangale uma u zibe- 
kce ngani na. 

The chief visi 

i Ya fika inkosi emasimini, ya ti, 
" Sa lii bona, msila-wezinja ; zi 
kona izinyoni na?" Wa ti, " Ye- 
bo, nkos', zi kona." W* e/dika 
ekoubcni Untombi-yapansi, 'esaba 
ngoba ku kona inkosi pezulu ekai- 
beni. Ya ti inkosi, " W e/dikela 
ni, msila-wezinja, na?" Wa ti, 
" Kga ; ngi y' e/dika nje, nkos'." 
Y ? e/dika inkosi, ya hamba ya ya 
ekaya. Ba buya nabo ontombi- 
yapansi. Sa fika ba dAla ba lala. 


TJdalana tells the chief 

Kwa ti kusi/dwa Udalana wa 
ya enkosini, wa ti, " Nkos', wo 
vuka kusasa kakulu, u ye 'ku/dala 
eka-ibeni lami, kona ku ya 'kuti 
emini lapa Umsila-wezinja e se 
hambile ukuya 'kugeza, si in la- 
ndele. U ya 'ubona umzimba 
wake u ya kazimula. A fike a 
pume nenduku yake yetusi pakati 
esizibeni, a tshaye ngayo pansi, a 
ti, * Dabuka, m/daba, ku pume 
izinto zikababa zonke.' Ku pume 
nezinkomo nabantu nokud/da ne- 
zinto zake zoku/doba. A kwele 
enkabini yake, a /dabele, ku vume 
abantu nenkomo nemiti ; konke 
ku m vumele." Ya ti inkosi, 
" Uma ngi liamba nje kusasa ngi 


Udalana arose and went to the 
watch-house where Untombi-yapa- 
nsi was ; she sat by her, looking 
earnestly at the whole of her 
body ; but she did not see any 
where a glistening spot. She won- 
dered what she had smeared her- 
self with. 

Is the garden. 

The chief came to the garden 
and said, " Good day, Umsila-we- 
zinja ; are there any birds here ? " 
She said, " Yes, sir, there are." 
Untombi-yapansi descended from 
the watch-house, being afraid be- 
cause the chief was on it. The 
chief said, " Why do you get 
down, Umsila-wezinja ? " She re- 
plied, "No, I merely get down, 
sir." The chief got down from the 
watch-house, and returned home. 
Untombi-yapansi and Udalana 
also went home. On their arrival 
they ate and lay down. 

')hat she has discovered. 

In the evening Udalana went to 
the chief and said, " 0 chief, wake 
very early in the morning, and go 
and stay at my watch-house ; then 
at noon when Umsila-wezinja has 
gone to bathe we will follow her. 
You will see her with her body 
glistening. She comes out of the 
pool with her brass rod, and smites 
the ground with it, and says, 
' Open, earth, that all the things 
of my father may come out.' And 
there come out cattle and men 
and food and all her ornaments. 
You will see her mount on an ox, 
and sing. And the men and the 
cattle and the trees take up the 
song, and every thing sings in uni- 
son with her." The chief said, 
" If I go in the morning shall I 


312 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ya 'u ku bona loko na ? " Wa ti 
Udalana, " Yebo, nkosi, u ya 'u 
ku bona.'' Ba lala. 


see that 1 " Udalana said, " Yes, 
O chief, you will see it." They 
retired to rest. 


The chief watches in vain. 


Kwa ti lapa ekuseni ya vuka 
inkosi, ya ya ekaabeni likadalana. 
Kwa ti lapa se ku sile ba haniba 
Odalana nontombi-yapansi. Kwa 
ti lapo be sesangweni wa ti Un- 
tombi-yapansi, " D Alula, wena, da- 
lana." Wa ti Udalana, " Ini wena 
u nga hambi pambili na ? W e- 
saba ni ukuhainba pambili ?" Wa 
dAlula Udalana, wa hamba. Wa 
ti Untombi-yapansi, " Hau ! Ku 
ngani namuAla umbete u nga bi ko 
na?" Wa ti Udalana, " Kumbe 
nga be ku hamba impunzi." Wa 
ti Untombi-yapansi, " Kepa w ome 
kangaka umbete na ? " 

Ba hamba ba ye ba fika emasi- 
mini. Ba Alala. Za fika inyoni. 
Wa ti Udalana, " Nazo, msila-we- 
zinja." Wa zi kuza njengabantu 
bonke ; kepa a zi sukanga ; za ba 
Zdupa kakulu. Ya ti inkosi, " Ku 
ngani ukuba zi ni Alupe namuAla 
izinyoni na?" Wa ti Udalana, 
" EmiAleni u ya zi kuza ngokunye 
Umsila-wezinja. Kepa namuAla 
a ng' azi uma u yekele ni na." 


Kepa wa ti Udalana, " Ku nga- 
ni ukuba namAla u nga yi 'kugeza 
na ?" Wa ti, " K<?a ; ngi y' en^e- 
na namuAla." Kepa Untombi- 
yapansi 'ezwa ukuti u kona umu- 
ntu o kona emasimini, ngokuba e 
bona umbete u nge ko. Kwa ze 
kwa tshona ilanga. Y' e/dika in- 
kosi ekadbeni, ya ya ekaya. Kwa 
ti ngasemuva ba buya nabo Onto- 
mbi-yapansi. 


When the chief arose in the 
morning he went to the watch- 
house of Udalana. When the sun 
was up Udalana and U ntombi- . 
yapansi set out. When they were 
at the gateway Untombi-yapansi 
said, " Bo you go on, Udalana/" 
Udalana said, " Why do not you 
go first ? Why are you afraid* to 
go in front?" Udalana went on. 
Untombi-yapansi said, " Hau ! 
How is it that to-day there is no 
dew?" Udalana said, "Perhaps 
a deer has passed." Untombi- 
yapansi said, " But why has the 
dew dried up so much ] " ••"J 

They went on and came to the 
garden. They sat down. The 
birds came. Udalana said, "There 
they are, Umsila-wezinja." She 
scared them in the same way as 
all other people ; but they did not 
go away ; they troubled them very 
much. The chief said, " How is it 
that the birds have troubled you 
so much to-day ? " Udalana re- 
plied, " On other days Umsila- 
wezinja scares them in a different 
manner. But to-day I do not know 
why she has departed from her 
usual method." 

Udalana went to Untombi-ya- 
pansi and said, "Why do you not 
go to bathe to-day?" She said, 

" No ; I am lazy to-day." But 
Untombi-yapansi perceived that 
there was some one in the garden, 
because she saw that there was no 
dew. At length the sun set. The 
chief went down from the watcK 
house and returned home ; and 
U ntombi-yapansi and Udalana also 
returned after him. 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


313 


Kwa ti lapo se be fike ekaya wa 
ti Untombi-yapansi, " Zi ya si 
Alupa inyoni." Wa ti udade wabo, 
" U zi blieke kakulu izinyoni, 
msila-wezinja, zi nga k^edi ama- 
bel' ami."' JBa lala. 


The chief watches a second time , a 

l Kwa ti eknseni inkosi ya puma, 
ya liamba ngenye indAlela, ya ye 
ya fika emasimini, } T a kcatsha pa- 
kati kwamabele. Kwa ti lapa se 
ku sile ba liamba Odalana, ba ya 
kulinda. Ba fika esangweni, wa 
tib Untombi-yapansi, " D Alula." 
Wa ti Udalana, " K^a ; a ngi 
tandi nami. DAlula wena." Wa 
d Alula Untombi-yapansi. Kwa ti 
lapa be liamba Untombi-yapansi 
wa bheka ezitweni zake, wa bona 
ukuba umbete u ya k.jala ukususa 
umuti. W' ala ukuhamba, wa ti, 
"I) Alula, dalana." Wa dAlula 
Udalana. Ba fika emasimini. 
Wa ti Udalana, " 1ST a namuAla a u 
zokuya ini ukuya kugeza na ? " 
Wa ti, " Ngi za 'kuya." W' eAli- 
ka ekribeni Untombi-yapansi, wa 
ya kudalana ekxibeni ; wa fika wa 
Alala kona. Za fika izinyoni ; wa 
ti Udalana, " Zi kuze, msila-we- 
zinja." Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, 
" Tayi, tayi, lezo 'nyoni ezi dAla 
insimu kadade ; kona e nge 'dade 
ngasibili ; se nga ba Umsila-we- 
zinja ; nga ngi nge Umsila-wezinja 
ngampela ; nga ngi Untombi-ya- 
pansi." Z' emuka izinyoni masi- 
nyane. Kepa inkosi ya mangala 
ngokubona loku. 


He watches A 

Kwa ti emini wa ti Untombi- 
yapansi, " Ngi sa ya kugeza ma- 


When they reached home Un- 
tombi-yapansi said, " The birds 
trouble us." Her sister said, 
" Watch the birds with great care, 
Umsila-wezinja, that they may not 
destroy my corn." They retired 
to rest. 

'd hears Untombi-yapansi' s charm. 

In the morning the chief left 
home and went by another way to 
the garden, and hid himself in the 
midst of the corn. When it was 
light Udalana and Untombi-yapa- 
nsi went to watch. When they 
came to the gateway Untombi- 
yapansi said, " Go on." Udalana 
replied, " No ; I too do not like to 
go first. Do you go in front." 
Untombi-yapansi went first. As 
they went U ntombi-yapan si looked 
at her legs, and saw that the dew 
was beginning to wash off that 
with which she had smeared her- 
self. She refused to walk first, 
and said, " Go on, Udalana." 
Udalana went on. They came to 
the garden. Udalana said, " And 
to-day too are you not going to 
bathe % " She replied, " I am go- 
ing." Untombi-yapansi got down 
from her watch-house, and went to 
that of Udalana ; she sat down 
there. The birds came ; Udalana 
said, " Scare them, Umsila-we- 
zinja." Untombi-yapansi said, 
" Tayi, tayi, those birds yonder 
which eat my sister's garden ; al- 
though she is not my sister truly ; 
since I became Umsila-wezinja ; I 
used not to be Umsila-wezinja in- 
deed ; I was Untombi-yapansi." 
The birds went away directly. 
And the chief wondered when he 
saw it. 

r at the river. 

At noon Untombi-yapansi said, 
" I am now going to bathe, Uda- 


314 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


nje, dalana : u ze u ngi bhekele 
izinyoni ensimini." Wa hamba 
Untombi-yapansi. Wa ye wa fika 
emfuleni. Kepa inkosi nayo ya 
hamba nodalana. Ba fika emfu- 
leni, ba kcatslia esi/da/deni. Wa 
ngena emanzini esizibeui Untombi- 
yapansi ; wa puma umzimba wake 
u kazimula itusi nendnku yake ; 
wa tskaya ngayo pansi, wa ti, 
" Dabuka, m/daba, ku pume izinto 
zikababa, nabantu bakababa, nen- 
komo zikababa, nezinto zami." 
Kwa puma konke loko nokud/da 
kwake. Wa d/da, wa binca ingu- 
bo yake, wa Zdoba ngezinto zake, 
wa kwela enkabini yake, wa ti, 


lan a ; do you watcli the birds for 
me in the garden." Untombi-ya- 
pansi departed, and went to the 
river. And the chief too and 
Udalana went to the river and hid 
in the underwood. Untombi-ya- 
pansi went into the pool, and came 
out with her body glistening like 
brass, and with her brass rod ; she 
struck the ground with it and said, 
" Open, earth, that my father's 
things may come out, and my 
father's people, and his cattle, and 
my things." Every thing came 
out, and her food. She ate ; and 
put on her garments and her orna- 
ments, and mounted the ox and 
said, 








" Enkund/deni kababa sa si ti 
E-a-ye ; 

Kwezi-matshoba am/dope sa si ti 
E-a-ye ; 

Kwezi-matshoba abomvu sa si ti 
E-a-ye." 

Ku vuma abantu bonke nezi/da/da. 


" In my father's cattle-pen we used 
to sing E-a-ye ; 

Among the white-tailed cattle 
we used to sing E-a-ye ; 

Among the red-tailed cattle we 
used to sing E-a-ye." : 

All the people and the trees took 
up the song. 


lie surprises Untombi-yapansi. 


Kepa inkosi ya mangala ngoku- 
bona loko. Ya ti kudalana, " Ngi 
za 'uvela mina, ngi m bambe, a 
nga be e sa zifi/da futi." Wa vu- 
ma Udalana. Kwa ti lapa se ku 
tshone izinto zonke ya vela inkosi. 
Wa ti Untombi-yapansi, lapa e 
bona inkosi, w' esaba kakulu. Ya 
ti inkosi, " Musa ukwesaba, mla- 
mu wami. Ngokuba kade u /du- 
peka isikati sonke, loku wa fika 
lapa u zifi/dile." 


The chief wondered on seeing 
it. He said to Udalana, " I will 
go out and lay hold of her, that 
she may no longer be able to hide 
herself again." Udalana assented. 
When all those things had again 
sunk into the ground, the king 
went out. When Untombi-yapa- 
nsi saw the chief, she feared great- 
ly. The chief said, " Do not fear, 
my sister-in-law. For for a long 
time you have been troubled with- 
out ceasing, for since you came here 
you have concealed yourself." 


She is made known to her sister. 


Ya m tata inkosi, ya buya naye 
nodalana, wa ya ensimini. Ya ti 
inkosi, " Ku ze ku ti lapa se ku 
/dwile kakulu, u buye naye, dala- 


The chief took her and went 
with her and Udalana to the gar- 
den. The chief said, " When it is 
cpiite dark, come back with her, 


UNTOMBI-YAPANSI. 


315 


ii a, u like, u m beke endAlini kwa- 
ko ; ngi ya 'kuza mina nodade 
wabo lapa se ni fikile." Ya buya 
inkosi, ya ya ekaya. Kwa ti lapa 
se ku Alwile ba fika Odalana, ba 
ngena endAlini kwake. Y' eza 
inkosi, ya biza udade wabo. Ba 
ngena end Alin i, ya m veza Un- 
tombi-yapansi. Wa kala udade 
wabo e ti, Kade nga tslio nga ti, 
' Ku ngani ukuba a nga kanyi 
umzimba wake na 1 ' " Ba buza 
kuyena Untombi-yapansi uma ini 
lena na. Wa ba tshela ukuba im- 
bulu ; wa ba landisa konke ukwe- 
nza kwayo imbulu. 


The imbulu 

Ya ti inkosi, " Hamba, dalana, 
u tshele abafana, u ti, a ba vuke 
kusasa, b' embe umgodi esibayeni 
omude ; ku ti abafazi ba poke 
amanzi ekuseni kakulu." Wa ba 
tshela konke loko Udalana. Ba 
lala. 

Kwa ti ekuseni kakulu ba vuka 
abafana, b' emba umgodi omude ; 
kwa telwa ubisi okambeni ; lwa 
ngeniswa ngomkcilo pakati emgo- 
dini. Ya ti inkosi, " Hamba ni, 
ni bize bonke abafazi, nomakoti 
'eze lapa/' Ba bizwa bonke, ba ya 
ba fika. Ku tiwa, " Yek^a ni lo 
hngodi nonke." Ya ti imbulu, i 
y' esaba ukwekgu. Ya ti inkosi, 
" Kga ; yekgu nawe." Y' ala im- 
bulu. Ya futeka inkosi ngolunya, 
ya ti, " Yekga, yek^a masinyane." 
B' ekya abanye abafazi ; kepa im- 
bulu, kwa ti lapa i ti nayo i y' e- 
k^a, umsila wayo wa bona amasi, 
ya ngena pakati, ya ziponsa nga- 
mandAla. Kwa tiwa kubafazi, 
" Gijima ni, ni tate amanzi atshi- 


Udalana, and put her in your 
house ; I will come with her sister 
when you are there." The chief 
went home. When it was dark 
Udalana and Untombi-yapansi re- 
turned and went to Udalana's 
house. The chief came, and called 
the sister of Untombi-yapansi. 
They went into the house, and he 
brought forth Untombi-yapansi to 
her. Her sister cried, saying, 
" Long ago I said, ' Plow is it that 
her body does not glisten V " They 
enquired of Untombi-yapansi what 
that thing w*as. She told them it 
was an imbulu ; and gave them a 
full account of what the imbulu 
had done. 

is destroyed. 

The chief said, " Go, Udalana, 
and tell the boys to awake in the 
morning and make a deep pit in 
the cattle-pen ; and the women to 
boil water early in the morning." 
Udalana took the message to 
them. They retired to rest. 

Early in the morning the boys 
arose and dug a deep pit ; they 
put some milk in a pot, which they 
let down by a cord into the hole. 
The king said, " Go and call all 
the women and the bride 73 to come 
hither." All were called and went. 
He said, " All of you jump across 
this hole." The imbulu said it 
was afraid to leap. The chief said, 
" No ; do you too leap." The im- 
bulu refused. The chief boiled 
over with anger and said, " Leap, 
leap immediately." The other 
women leapt ; and when the im- 
bulu too was leaping, its tail saw 
the milk, it went into the hole, 
throwing itself in with violence. 
The chief said to the women, 
" Bun and fetch the boiling water 


73 That is, the imbulu. 


316 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


sayo, ni tele pakati." Ba wa tata, 
ba tela pakati emgodini amanzi. 
Ya tsha. Ba i g^iba emgodini. 


The chief marries 

Kwa ti lapo inkosi ya tshela 
abantu, ya ti, " Hainba ni, ni 
tshele isizwe sonke, ni ti, a si ze 
lapa ; ngi ganiwe ; ku tike umla- 
mu wami." Sa tshelwa sonke isi- 
zwe, sa fika. Kwa ngena mn- 
timba. Wa sina Untombi-yapansi 
nabantu bakubo. Wa Alala e 
jabula nodade wabo. Kwa 7Ja- 
tsliwa izinkomo, ba d/ila inyama. 
Ba Alala 'ndawo nye bonke ka/Je. 

Lydia (Umkasetemba). 


and pour it into the hole." They 
fetched it and poured it into the 
hole. The imbulu was scalded. 
They covered it up with earth in 
the hole. 


Then the chief told the people, 
saying, " Go and tell the whole 
nation to come here, for I am a 
chosen husband ; my sister-in-law ' 
has come." The whole nation was I 
told ; the people came. The mar- 
riage company entered the village. 
Untombi-yapansi danced together < 
with her people. She lived in 
happiness with her sister. Many 
cattle were killed, and they ate 
meat. They all lived together 
happily. 


U ntombi-yapansi. 


APPENDIX. 


In several of the Zulu Tales we have allusions made to persons descending into 
the water , remaining there, and returning, as quite a natural thing. Water is 
not destructive to them. In a tradition of the origin of the Amasikakana, the 
tribe descended from the unkulunkulu Uzimase, they are said to have come up 
from below, but to have first revealed themselves to some women, whilst still 
in the water. In another tradition we hear of a heaven - descended unkulunkulu ; 
and there is, so far as I know, every where, among the people of all tribes, a 
belief in the existence of heavenly men (abantu bezulu) ; and of a king of 
heaven, whom they suppose to be the creator of lightning, thunder, and rain. 
The two following tales give an account of men who descended to the lower 
regions, and returned to relate what they had seen, not quite after the manner 
of Virgil or Dante, but strictly in accordance with their own earthly imaginings. 
They have a notion then, — or rather the fragments of their traditions clearly 
show that their ancestors believed, —that not only earth, heaven, and water 
have their man-like inhabitants, but that also underground there are those who 
are still occupied with the busy cares and necessary labours of life. They are 
supposed to be the departed dead, and lead a very material kind of existence. 
A more full account of the abapansi — subterraneans, or underground people — 
will be given under the head, " Amatongo." 

Who can doubt that we find here the relics of an old belief, clothed after a 
new fashion, different from that to which we have been accustomed, coarse and 
unattractive, in accordance with the habits and unintellectual condition of the 
people ; but of a common origin probably with that which in other countries, 
whose inhabitants have been in different circumstances, and had a different de- 
velopment, has formed the basis of more exact theologies ; or of such fanciful 
tales as that of "Jullanar of the Sea," in the Arabian Nights ; or of such 
pleasing conceits as have been clothed with so much poetical beauty by the pen 
of La Motte Fouqu6 in his Undine ? 


UMKATSHANA. 


317 


UMKATSHANA. 


Kwa ti Umkatsliana wa vuka e ya 
'uzingela nezinja zake ; wa vusa 
iza ; izinja za li kxotsha ; la ya la 
ngena emgodini, nenja za ngena, 
naye wa ngena. W' emuka w' e- 
muka nalo, wa za wa fika kubantu 
aba ngapansi, lapa kw akiweyo. 
Wa bona izinkomo ; wa fika ku 
sengwa. Wa ti, " Kanti, kw aki- 
we lapa.'' (Ngokuba ku tiwa in- 
koino lezi e si zi Alabako, ku tiwa 
ku fuyiwe zona ngapansi, zi buye 
zi vuke.) Kepa ba ti, " Inja yetu 
le i kxotshwa ubani na h " Ba ti, 
ukubheka, " A, nangu 'muntu." 
Wa e se Alangana nezake izi/dobo. 
Ba ti, " Gocluka ! Musa ukuAlala 
lapa." Wa buya wa goduka ke. 


Insuku za se zi dAlulile zake 
lapa ekaya ; se be ti, "Wa ya 
ngapi na lo 'muntu ? U file," ba m 
bona e fika. Ba ti ke, " U vela 
pi 11 a V Wa ti, " Ngi be ngi mu- 
ke nenyamazane ; ya ya ya fika 
pansi kwabapansi, i ngena emgo- 
dini. Nami nga ngena ke. Ka- 
nti ke i ya lapa kw akiweko." Ba 
buza ke ba ti, " U ti ng' abantu 
nje na 1 ? " Wa ti, " Yebo ; nobani 
nobani ba kona. Ngi buyiswe i 
bo." 


Leyo 'ndawo lapa a tsbona kona 
kulabo 'bantu ku tiwa Usesiyela- 
mangana, kwelasemaAlutshini, ela 
1' akiwe Ubungane, uyise kalanga- 
libalele, uyisemkulu. Ezimbutwi- 
ni, uma e nga tsho ezimbutwini, a 
ti Usen/donga. Amagama aleyo 
'ndawo. 


Once on a time Umkatshana arose 
in the morning to go to hunt with 
his dogs ; he started a rheebuck ; 
his dogs drove it ; it went and en- 
tered a hole, and the dogs went in 
too, and he too went in. He went 
on and on with the buck, until he 
came to the people who are be- 
neath, to the place where they 
dwell. He saw cattle ; when he 
arrived the people were milking. 
He said, " So then there are peo- 
ple who live here." (For it is said 
that the cattle which we kill be- 
come the property of those who 
are beneath ; they come to life 
again.) They said, " This dog 
of ours, who is driving it % " They 
said when they looked, " Ah, there 
is a man." And then he met with 
his own friends. They said to 
him, " Go home ! Do not stay 
here." So he went home again. 

The days in which he was ex- 
pected to come home had already 
passed away ; and when the people 
were saying, " Where has the man 
gone 1 He is dead," they saw him 
coming. They enquired of him, 
" Whence come you ? " He said, 
" I had followed a buck ; it went 
until it reached the people who 
live beneath, it going into a hole. 
And so I too went in. And the 
buck went to the place where they 
live." So they asked him, saying, 
"Do you say they are men like 
us 1 " He replied, " Yes ; and So- 
and-so and So-and-so were there. 
I was sent back by them." 

The place where he descended 
to those people is called Usesiyela- 
mangana, in the country of the 
Amathlubi, where Ubungane lived, 
the father of Ulangalibalele, that 
is, his grandfather. In the Izim- 
butu, if it be not said Izimbutu, it 
is called Usenthlonga. These are 
names of those places. 


318 


IZINOANEKWANE. 


Ku tiwa lima umuntu e flic lapa 
emAlabeni, wa ya kwabapansi, ba 
ti, " Musa ukukgala u /dangane 
nati ; u sa nuka umlilo." Ba ti, 
ka ke a /dale kude nabo, a ke a 
pole umlilo. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


It is said that when a man dies 
in this world, and has gone to the 
people who live beneath, they say 
to him, " Do not come near us at 
once ; you still smell of fire." 
They say to him, " Just remain at 
a distance from us, until the smell 
of fire has passed off." 


INDABA KANCAMA-NGAMANZI-EGUDU. 
(the tale of uncama-ngamanzi-egudu. 74 ) 


Uncama wa lima insimu yombila ; 
kwa t' uba i kgale ukuvutwa, ya 
ngena ingungumbane, ya zing' i i 
d/da njalo ; e zing' e vuka kusasa, 
a fike i d/dile. Wa za wa linda 
usuku olu namazolo. Kwa ti 
ngam/da e bona amazolo emakulu, 
wa vuka, wa ti, " Nam/da nje ngi 
nga i landa ka/de, uma i d/dile 
ensimini, ngokuba lapa i hambe 
kona amazolo a ya 'kuvutuluka; 
ngi ze ngi i fumane lapa i ngene 
kona." Nembala ke wa tata izi- 
kali zake, wa puma, wa fika ensi- 
mini ; i dAlile ; wa i landa ngom- 
kondo, u sobala lapa i hambe ko- 
na, amazolo e vutulukile. Wa 
hamba wa liamba, wa za wa i nge- 
nisela emgodini. Naye ke wa 
ngena, ka b' e sa buza, ukuti, 
" Loku i ngene lapa nje, ngi nge 
nanja, ngi za 'kwenze njani na ? " 
Ngokutukutela ukuba i k^ede 
ukud/da kwake, wa hamba pakati, 
e ti, " Ngo ya ngi fike lapa i kona, 
ngi i bulale." Wa ngena nezikali 
zake. Wa hamba wa hamba, wa 
za wa fika ekcibini ; wa ti, isiziba ; 


Uncama dug a mealie garden ; 
when the mealies had begun to 
get ripe, a porcupine entered it, 
and continually wasted it ; and he 
continually rose early, and arrived 
when the porcupine had devoured 
his mealies. At length he waited 
for a day on which there was 
abundance of dew. On the day 
he saw much dew he arose and 
said, " To-day then I can follow it 
well, if it has eaten in the garden, 
for where it has gone the dew will 
be brushed off. At length I may 
discover where it has gone into its 
hole." Sure enough then he took 
his weapons, and went out to the 
garden ; it had eaten his mealies ; 
he followed it by the trail, it 
being evident where it had gone, 
the dew being brushed off. He 
went on and on, until he saw 
where it had gone into a hole. 
And he too went in, without en- 
quiring a moment, saying, " Since 
it has gone in here, and I have no 
dog, what can I do ? " Because 
he was angry that the porcupine 
had wasted his food, he went in, 
saying, " I will go till I reach it, 
and kill it." He went in with his 
weapons. He went on and on, 
till he came to a pool ; he thought 
Instead of eating, he 


74 He-prepares-for-his-journey-by-smoking-wwawgrw. 
strengthens himself with the igudu, or insangu-horn. 


USTCAMA-NGAMANZI-EGUDU. 


319 


wa tulis' ame/do, wa za wa bona 
ukuba ikcibi nje. Wa hamba 
ekcaleni, wa dAlula. Kwa ba 
mnyama emgodini, e nga bonisisi 
ka/de ; ame/do a za e jwayela um- 
godi, wa bona kaAle. Wa za wa 
lala, e nga fiki 'ndawo ; kwa ti ku 
sa wa e vuka, e hamba njalo ; e 
harnb' e lala, wa za wa fika emfu- 
leni ; wa u wela, wa hamba. Lapo 
ka hambi ngokuba e bona ama- 
sondo ayo ; u se hamba ngokuba 
imbobo inye a ngena ngayo ; u 
pike ngokuti, "Ngo ze ngi fike 
ekupeleni kwomgodi, anduba ngi 
dele." 


Wa za wa bona pambili ku kga- 
la ukukanya ; w' ezwa ku kuza 
izinja, ku kala abantwana ; wa 
dAlula ; wa vela pezu kwomuzi ; 
wa bona ku tunya umusi j wa ti, 
" Hau ! u pi*lapa 1 Nga ti, * Ngi 
landa ingungumbane ; ' nga fika 
ekaya." Ukubuya kwake e /de/da 
nyovane, e se buyela emuva ; wa 
ti, " A ngi nga yi kulaba 'bantu, 
ngokuba a ngi b' azi ; ba funa ba 
ngi bulale." Wa bona izwe eli- 
kulu. Wa baleka, wa hamba 
imini nobusuku, e ti, " Kumbe ba 
ngi bonile." Wa za wa wela lowo 
'mful a a u wela e sa landa ; wa 
dAlula kulelo 'kcibi a d/dula kulo 
kukgala ; wa za wa puma. 


Wa mangala ekupumeni kwake, 
ngokuba lapa a vela kona, wa ku 
bona konke oku fana noku nga- 
pezulu, izintaba namawa nemifula. 
Wa goduka ke, wa fika ekaya 
end/dini yake. Wa ngena, wa biza 


it was deep water ; he looked care- 
fully, until he saw that it was only 
a pool. He went by the edge, 
and passed on. It was dark in the 
hole, he not seeing clearly ; at 
length his eyes became accustomed 
to the hole, and he saw well. At 
length he lay down to sleep before 
he had reached any where ; and in 
the morning he awoke and set out 
again. He went and slept until 
at length he came to a river ; he 
crossed it and went forward. He 
now no longer went forward be- 
cause he still saw the footprints of 
the porcupine ; he now went be- 
cause the hole was the same as 
that by which he entered ; he per- 
severed, saying, " I shall at length 
arrive at the end of the hole, 
whereupon I shall be satisfied." 

At length in front he saw it 
began to get light ; he heard dogs 
baying, and children crying ; he 
passed on ; he came upon a vil- 
lage ; he saw smoke rising, and 
said, " Hau ! what place is this 1 
I said, ' I am following the porcu- 
pine ; ' I am come to a dwelling." 
Whereupon he returned, walking 
backwards, and returning on his 
path, and said, " Let me not go to 
these people, for I do not know 
them ; perhaps they will kill me." 
He saw a great country. He fled, 
and went day and night, saying, 
" Perhaps they have seen me." 
At length he crossed that river 
which he crossed -whilst he was 
pursuing the porcupine ; he passed 
the pool which he passed at first ; 
at length he went out of the hole. 

He wondered on coming out ; 
for at the place from which he 
came, he saw all things resembled 
those which are above, mountains, 
precipices, and rivers. So he went 
home, and came to his own house. 
He went in and asked his wife for 


320 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


tikcansi kumkake. Umkakewam 
bheka, wa tshay' izandMa, wa ka- 
la ; abantu b' etuka, ba ti budu- 
budu, be buza, " Ini na?" Wa ti, 
" Nang' Uncama e fika !" Abantu 
ba mangala, ba buya ba pinda ba 
kala isililo. TJmfazi wa ti, " Ikca- 
nsi lako nengubo zako nemintsha 
yako nesikcamelo sako nezitsha 
zako, konke nga ku la^la, ngi ti, u 
file ; izingubo namakcansi nga ku 
tshisa." 

Wa i zeka ke indaba, wa ti, 
"Ngi vela kude ; ngi vela kubantu 
aba ngapansi. Ngi be ngi lande 
ingungumbane ; nga fika, kw aki- 
we ; ng' ezwa ku kuza izinja, ku 
kala abantwana ; nga bona abantu 
be nyakazela ; ku tunya umusi. 
Kwa ba ukubuya kwaini ke, se 
ng' esaba, ngi ti, be za 'u ngi bu- 
lala. Ni bona ngi fika nje." 

Leyo 'ndoda ibhwan^ana elifu- 
tshanyana, lisinindoiwana ; um- 
zimba wonke u pelile uboya ; li- 
bana ; lizigejana, amazinyo a wa sa 
pelele. Nami ngi ya 1* azi. Nga 
li bona ngi se umfana. Ku zinge 
ku tiwa, " Nang' umuntu owa fika 
kwabapansi." S' esaba ukungena 
emgodini wesambane ngokuzwa 
leyo 'ndaba, ukuti, "U ye u like 
kwabapansi." 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


a mat. His wife looked at him ; 
she smote her hands and cried ; 
the people started ; they hurried 
in and asked, "What is it?" She 
said, " Behold Uncama is come ! " 
The men wondered, and again 
shouted the funeral dirge. The 
woman said, " Your mat, and your 
blanket, and your kilt, and your 
pillow, and your vessels, every 
thing I have buried, saying, you 
were dead ; your blankets and 
mats I burnt." 

So he told the tale, and said, 
" I am come from a distance ; I am 
come from the men who live under- 
ground. I had followed a porcu- 
pine ; I came to a village ; I heard 
dogs baying, and children crying ; 
I saw people moving backwards 
and forwards, and smoke rising. 
And so I came back again. I was 
afraid, thinking they would kill 
me. It is because [I feared and 
returned] that you see me this day." 

That man was a very little 
whiskered man, who was hairy all 
over ; his whole body was covered 
with hair ; very ugly ; he had 
many gaps in his mouth, his teeth 
being no longer complete. And I 
too know him. I saw him when 
I was a boy. It was continually 
said, " There is the man who went 
to the underground people." We 
were afraid to go into an ant-bear's 
hole from hearing that tale, to wit, 
" He went till he reached the 
underground people." 


In Pococke's India in Greece , pp. 308 — 311, we read a legend of the priest 
S6nuttaro, who performed a feat similar to that ascribed to Untombi-yapansi. 
A shrine had been prepared for the reception of relics. S6nuttaro being anxious 
to obtain a casket of especially valuable relics to deposit in the shrine, " dived 
into the earth and proceeded subterraneously to the land of N&gas." The N&ga 
king, on discovering the object of his visit, determined to keep possession of 
the casket, if possible. This he effected by means of his son, who swallowed 
it together with its contents, and then extended his dimensions to a most mon- 
strous magnitude, and calling forth thousands of snakes similar to himself, en- 
circled himself with them and remained coiled up in fancied security. But the 
priest's power and subtlety were too great for the serpent's magic. He " mira- 
culously created an invisibly attenuated arm," by which he extracted the pre- 
cious casket, unperceived, from the stomach of the N&ga. When he had done 
this, ' 'rending the earth" ( dabula vmhfaba J, he again returned to the upper world. 


UMAMBA. 


321 


UMAMBA. 


/ 


A king marries two sisters. 


Kwa ku Jcona inkosi etile e zeka 
abafazi abaningi. Kwa ti lapa se 
be baningi ya zeka intombi ezim- 
bili zenye inkosi. Kwa ti enye 
intombi ya i beka inkosikazi ; ke- 
pa enye intombi ya i nomona 
omkulu ngokuba nayo ya i tan da 
ukuba i be inkosikazi. Kwa ti, 
lapa se zi kgediwe ukulotsholwa, 
za sina zombili. 


There was a certain chief who 
married many wives. When his 
wives were very many he married 
two damsels, the daughters of an- 
other king. One of these he made 
the chieftainess ; and the other 
was very jealous because she too 
was wishing to be the chieftainess. 
When the dowry was paid, both 
danced the marriage dance. 


The qneeris first infant dies. 


Kwa ti ngesinye isikati b' emita 
bonke abafazi baleyo 'nkosi. Ba 
beleta abanye, kepa inkosikazi 
y' epuza yona ukubeleta. Kwa ti 
lapa se be zwile ukuba i belete, wa 
puma udade wabo, wa ya kona 
end/dini ; wa fika wa ti, " Leta ni 
umntwana, ngi m bone." Ba m 
nika. Wa m tata, wa m buka. 
Kepa e sa m pete wa fa umntwana. 
Ba ti bonke abantu, " U m pete 
kanj an i umntwana na?" Wa ti, 
" K^a. Ngi te ngi m tata, wa e 
se file." Ba mangala bonke abantu. 


It came to pass in process of 
time that all the chief's wives 
were pregnant. They gave birth 
to their children, but the chief- 
tainess was long in giving birth. 
When they had heard that she had 
given birth, her sister went to her 
house ; on her arrival she said, 
" Bring me the child, that I may 
see it." They gave her the child. 
She took it and looked at it. But 
whilst it was in her arms it died. 
All the people said, " How have 
you handled the child ? " She 
said, " No. As soon as I took it, 
it died." All the people wondered. 


And her second and third. 


Ba ze ba buye b' emita futi, ba 
baleta. Wa ti omunye futi um- 
ntwana wa m tata naye, wa fa futi. 
Kwa ze kwa fa abantwana abatatu. 
Kepa bonke abantu ekaya ba ti, 
" Ba bulawa udade wabo." 


Again they had children. And 
the queen's sister took the second 
child also, and it too died. And 
three children at length died in 
this way. And all the people said, 
" They were killed by the queen's 
sister." 

Again they were pregnant. The 


Ba buye b' emita futi. Wa ti 


322 


12INGANEKWANE. 


unina wendoda, " Uma abantwana 
laba abafayo a ka ba pati udade 
wenu, nga be nga fi. Kepa ngo- 
kuba u ya m nika bona u ya ba 
bulala." 


She gives Mr 

Wa beleta futi, a ka ze a tshela 
'muntu ukuti n ya beleta. Kwa 
ti kusasa bonke abantu b' ezwa 
ukuti, u se belete. Ba ya 'kubona 
umntwana. Ba fika ba ti, " Ake 
si bone umntwana." Wati, " Kgu. 
Nam/da a ngi belete 'mntwana ; 
ngi belete isilwane nje." Ba ti, 
"Isilwane sini nal" Wa ti, 
" Imamba." Ba ti, " Ake u i 
veze, si bone." Wa i veza. Ba 
mangala ngokuba be bona imamba. 


Her sister gives 

Omunye futi lowo udade wabo 
wa beleta umfana. Wa jabula 
ngokuba yena e belete umuntu, 
kepa lo e belete inyoka nje. Ba 
kula bobabili. Ya ti inkosi, 

" Laba 'bantwana bami, omunye 
igama lake Umamba, omunye Un- 
simba." Ba kula bobabili. Kepa 
TJmamba wa e liamba ngesisu nje. 

The queen's sis 

Wa ti uma a zale Umamba, 
yena wa kula, a ka fa ; ba ti aba- 
ntu, " Bheka ni ke manje, ngo- 
kuba lo 'mntwana a ka fanga ngo- 
kuba yena e inyoka. Abanye be 
be bulawa u yena unina kansimba, 
e tanda uma ku buse Unsimba." 

75 The mother of the chief, lit. of 1 

76 The imamba is a deadly snake. 

77 Umamba , The-im amba-man. 

78 Unsimba. — Insimba is a wild cat. 


mother of the chief 75 said, " If 
your sister had not touched the 
children which are dead, they 
would not have died. But she 
kills them because you place them 
in her hands." 

h to a snake. 

Again she gave birth to a child. 
But she told no man that she was 
in labour. In the morning all the 
people heard that she had a child. 
They went to see it. When they 
came they said, " Just let us see 
the child." She replied, " No. I 
have not given birth to a child this 
time ; but to a mere animal." 
They said, " What animal ? " She 
replied, " An imamba ." 76 They 
said, "Just uncover it, that we 
may see." She showed it to them. 
They wondered when they saw an 
imamba. 

Mrth to a boy. 

Her sister too gave birth to a 
boy. She rejoiced because she 
gave birth to a human being, and 
her sister had given birth to a 
snake. Both grew up. The chief 
said, " As regards those children, 
the name of one is Umamba , 77 
and of the other, Unsimba ." 78 
But Umamba went on his belly. 

er is suspected. 

When she gave birth to Uma- 
mba, and he grew up and did not 
die, the people said, " " See now 
then, for this child did not die 
because he is a snake. The others 
were killed by the mother of Un- 
simba, because she wished that 
Unsimba should be king." But 
le husband. 

The-cat-man. 


UMAMBA. 


323 


Kepa wa ti uyise kansimba, " Uma 
ni 11 bona umuti a bulala ngawo 
abantwana, u lete ni kumina, ngi 
ze ngi u pate, ngi pate yena nge- 
zandAla zanii, naye u ya 'kufa ; 
ngokuba ni ti, ' Abantwana u ba 
pata ngesandAla, ba fe/ Nami 
ngi ya bona, ngokuba abantwana 
aba abantu ba ya fa ; kepa inyoka 
a i fanga. Kodwa mina a ng' azi 
uma ba bulawa ini na 1 " 


the father of Unsimba said, " If 
you see the medicine 79 with which 
she killed the children, bring it to 
me, that I may take it in my hand, 
and touch her with my hands, and 
she too will die ; for you say, ' She 
touches the children with her hand 
and they die.' And I too see that 
it is so, for the children which 
are human beings die ; but the 
snake is not dead. But for my 
part I do not know if they were 
killed." 


Damsels come to marry the princes, bnt they fear Umamba. 


Kwa ti, lapa se be kulile, ku 
fike izintombi zi ze 'kugana. Ku 
ti lapa be buza be ti, " Ni ze 'ku- 
gana kubani na 1 " zi ti, " Kun- 
simba." Ezinye zi ze 'kugana ku- 
mamba. Kepa ku ti lapa se zi m 
bonile ukuba inyoka, zi baleke, zi 
ti, "Be si ti umuntu nje." 

Uyise e /dupeka kakulu, ngo- 
kuba e m tanda Umamba. Kepa 
intombi zonke zi m esaba ngokuba 
e inyoka. A ti uyise, " Nawe, 
nsimba, a u yi 'kuganwa, e nga ka 
ganwa Umamba ; ngokuba u yena 
omkulu kuna we." Kepa Unsimba 
a Aleke ngokuba e bona intombi zi 
m ala Umamba ; a ti Unsimba, 
" Loku intombi zi ya m ala Uma- 
mba, mina zi ya ngi tanda, ku ya 
'kwenziwa njani na T A ti unina 
kamamba, " U ya Aleka nje uyiAlo. 
wena nsimba. U kona umuntu 
ow' alelwa ukuzeka, ku tiwe u ya 
'upikanisana nesilima na 1 " 


It came to pass when they were 
grown up, damsels came to choose 
their husbands. When the people 
asked them whom they came to 
choose, they replied, " Unsimba." 
But others came to choose Uma- 
mba. But when they saw that he 
was a snake, they fled, saying, 
"We thought he was a real man." 
The father was greatly troubled, 
for he loved Umamba. And all 
the maidens were afraid of him 
because he was a snake. The fa- 
ther said, " And you too, Unsimba, 
shall not be married before Uma- 
mba ; for he is your superior." 
But Unsimba laughed because he 
saw that the damsels rejected 
Umamba, and said, " Since the 
girls reject Umamba and love me, 
what is to be done 1 " And the 
mother of Umamba said, " You, 
Unsimba, your father is merely 
laughing. Was there ever any 
one who was prevented from mar- 
rying because it was said, he rivals 
one who is deformed ? " 


79 This is the first and only instance which we meet with in these stories in 
which " medicines " are mentioned as a means of revenge. There is nothing in 
the action of the sister at the time of taking the children which would lead us 
to suspect she was using poison. The account there given seems rather to point 
to magical power, or to what is called the " influence of the evil eye." One is 
therefore inclined to ascribe this remark of the chief to some modern interpola- 
tion. If not it is probable that the tale itself is of a comparatively recent 
origin. But excepting this mention of ' ' medicine " it bears the same stamp of 
antiquity as the rest. 


324 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


A damsel comes to choose Unsimha, accompanied by her sister. 


Kwa ti ngasemva kwaloko kwa 
fika izintombi ezi vela kwelinye 
ilizwe, z' eza 'kugana kona ; enye 
ya i pelezela enye. Kwa buzwa 
uma i ze 'kugana kubani na. Ya 
ti, " Kunsimba." Za ngeniswa 
endAlini. Wa vuma uyise ukuba 
a ganwe Unsimba. 

Kwa Alatshwa inkomo, kwa 
butana abantu abaningi, ngokuba 
ku ganvre umntwana wenkosi. 
Kwa ti kusiAlwa kwa ngena izi- 
nsizwa eziningi zi ze 'kuk^omisa 
izintombi. Kwa ti lapa se zi ngena 
izinsizwa wa ngena Umamba. Za 
ti zonke izintombi za baleka zi 
kala, za ya emsamo. Ya ti inkosi, 
" Ba tshele ni ukuti a ba muse 
ukubaleka, ngokuba umntwana 
wami lowo." Ba ti abantu aba 
sendAlini, " Hlala ni pansi ; musa 
ni ukubaleka, ngokuba umntwana 
wenkosi lo." Wa tata ukcansi 
lwake, wa Alala pezu kwalo. Za 
ti izintombi, " Kepa w' enziwa ini 
ukuba a be inyoka na ? " Ba ti, 
" Unina wa e bujelwa ; wa ze wa 
zala yena." Ba mangala kakulu. 


It came to pass after that, that 
two damsels came from another 
country to choose a husband ; one 
was the companion of the other. 
They asked whom she came to 
choose. She replied, " Unsimba." 
They placed them in a house. The 
father agreed that Unsimba might 
marry. 

Cattle were killed, and many 
people assembled, because the 
king's child was an elected bride- 
groom. In the evening many 
young men came in to get the 
damsels to point out those they 
liked be3t. When the young men 
had come in, Umamba also came. 
And the damsels fled, screaming, 
to the upper end of the house. 
The king said, " Tell them not to 
run away, for that is my child." 
The people who were in the house 
said, " Sit down ; do not run away, 
for this is the king's child." He 
took his mat and sat upon it. The 
damsels said, " But how did he 
become a snake ? " They said, 
" His mother lost her children by 
death ; and at last he was born." 
They greatly wondered. 


The sister chooses TJmamba. 


Za k^omisa izinsizwa ezintombi- 
ni ; za k^oma izintombi. Kepa 
udade wabo kamakoti wa kgoma 
Umamba. Kepa Unsimba e nga 
tandi ukuba umlamu wake ukuba 
a kgome Umamba, e tanda ukuba 
a kg'ome yena. Ba buy a ba buza 
ba ti, " Wena, u k^ome 'bani na?" 
Ya ti intombi, " Ngi kyome Uma- 
mba." Kepa izinsizwa za ti, 
" Ansimba. " Ya ti intombi, 
" K^a amamba." Za ti izinsizwa, 
" Ansimba. " Ya ti intombi, 


The damsels were made to point 
out their favourites among the 
young men. But the sister of the 
bride pointed out Umamba. But 
Unsimba did not like his sister-in- 
law to point out Umamba, wishing 
her to point out himself. They 
asked her again, " Who do you 
point out as your favourite ?" The 
damsel replied, " Umamba." But 
the young men said, " You mean 
Unsimba." The damsel said, 
" No ; Umamba." The young 
men said, " You mean Unsimba." 
The damsel replied, "No; Uma- 


U MAMBA. 


325 


" K^a amamba." Wa ti Unsimba, 
" Kgu ; i yeke ni nje, ngokuba 
noma i k^ome yena Umamba, i za 
'ku m ala ngokuba inyoka." 

Wa ti Unsimba, " Nina ni ao- 
bani, amagama enu na ? " Za ti 
izintombi, " Lona o ze 'kugana, 
igama lake Un/damvu-yobuAlalu. 
Udade wabo lo igama lake UnAla- 
mvu-yetusi." Kepa Unsimba wa 
e nga m tandi U nAlam vu-yobuAla- 
lu kakulu, kepa wa e tanda Un- 
Alamvu-yetusi. 

One goes to Unsimba' s ho\ 

Kwa ti lapa se zi k^edile uku- 
kyoma, w' emuka Unsimba wa ya 
elawini lake, nomamba wa ya ela- 
wini lake. Kwa tiwa izinsizwa, 
"A si tate umakoti si mu yise 
elawini likansimba." Wa bamba 
U n/damvu-y obu/dalu. Za ti kun- 
Alamvu-yetusi, a ka ye elawini 
likamamba. Wa ya, wa fika, wa 
ngena, wa Alala pansi. 

Unthlamvu-yetusi is asked if 


mba." Unsimba said, " No ; just 
leave her alone, for although she 
has chosen Umamba, she will soon 
reject him because he is a snake." 

Unsimba said, " What are your 
names ? " The girls said, " She 
who has come to marry is Untlila- 
mvu-yobuthlalu. so And her sis- 
ter's name is Unthlamvu-yetusi." 
But Unsimba did not love Un- 
thlamvu-yobuthlalu very much, 
but he loved Unthlamvu-yetusi. 

se, the other to Umamba' s. 

When they had ended pointing 
out their favourites, Unsimba went 
to his house, and Umamba went 
to his. The young men said, " Let 
us take the bride to Unsimba's 
house." Unthlamvu -yobuthlalu 
went. They told Unthlamvu-ye- 
tusi to go to the house of Umamba. 
She went and entered the house 
and sat down. 

she will be Umamba' s bride. 


Wa bona Umamba e Alezi okca- 
nsini lwake, ku kona udade wabo 
kamamba elawini likamamba, e 
Alezi naye. Wa ti udade wabo 
kamamba, " Loko zi ti intombi zi 
k^oma, kepa wena wa kgoma in- 
yoka, u ya 'kuvuma ukuba w e- 
ndele kuyo na?" Wa Aleka Un- 
Alamvu-yetusi, wa ti, " Ku tiwa u 
dAla abantu ini na?" Wa ti 
Umamba, " U kona umuntu o 
kgoma inyoka na?" Wa ti Un- 
Alamvu-yetusi, " Loko u nga dAli 
'bantu, mina u ya 'ku ngi dAla 
ngoba ngi nani na ? " 


She saw Umamba resting on his 
mat ; and Umamba's sister was 
also sitting there in Umamba's 
house. Umamba's sister said, 
" Since the damsels pointed out 
their favourites, and you pointed 
out a snake as yours, would you 
agree to be his wife ?" She laugh- 
ed and said, " Is it said that he 
devours men?" Umamba said, 
" Is there any one who chooses a 
snake?" Unthlamvu-yetusi said, 
" As you do not devour men, what 
is there in me that you should de- 
vour me ? " 


80 Unthlamvu-yobuthlalu. — Inthlamvu is a berry, and here applied to ubu- 
thlalu, means a single bead , of glass or some inferior substance ; as distinguished 
from inthlamvu-yetusi, brass-bead. Unthlamvu-yobuthlalu, Bead- woman. Un- 

thlamvu-yetusi, Brass-bead-woman. 


32G 


I ZING AX EK W AN E . 


She vjcrits on Umamba. 


Ya buye ya puma leyo 'ntomba- 
zana. Wa ti Umamba, " Sukuma 
u vale." Wa ti Un/Jamvu-yetusi, 
" Ini wena u nga vali na?" Wa 
ti Umamba, "A ngi nazo izand/da 
zokuvala." Wa ti Un/Jamvu- 
yetusi, " Emi/deni u valelwa ubani 
na?" Wa ti Umamba, " Ku vala 
umfana wami e ngi lala naye." 
Wa ti Un/Jamvu-yetusi, " Kepa u 
ye ngapi namuAla na 1 ?" Wa ti 
Umamba, " U pumele wena, nto- 
mbi yami." W' esuka Un/tlamvu- 
yetusi wa vala. 

Wa ti Umamba, " Ng' end/Ja- 
lele." Wa ti UnAlamvu-yetusi, 
" Emi/Jeni w end/Jalelwa ubani 
na?" Wa ti Umamba, " Umfana 
wami." W' esuka U nAlamvu-ye- 
tusi wa m end/dalela. 

Wa ti, " Tata umfuma wama- 
futa, u ngi gcobe ; kona ngi za 
'kulala ka/de." Wa ti Un/Jamvu- 
yetusi, " Ugi y' esaba ukupata in- 
yoka." Wa /Jeka Umamba. Ba 
lala. 


Umamba's sister went out. 
Umamba said, " Arise, and close 
the doorway." Unthlamvu-yetusi 
said, " Why do you not close it ? " 
He replied, " I have no hands with 
which I can close it." Unthlamvu- 
yetusi said, " Who closes it every 
day V He replied, " The lad who 
sleeps with me closes it." Un- 
thlamvu-yetusi said, " And where 
has he gone ? " Umamba answer- 
ed, " He has gone out on your 
account, my love." 81 Unthlamvu- 
yetusi arose and closed the door- 
way. 

Umamba said, " Spread the mat 
for me." Unthlamvu-yetusi said, 
" Who spreads it for you day by 
day 1 ?" Umamba replied, "My 
lad." Unthlamvu-yetusi arose and 
spread the mat for him. 

He said, " Take the pot of fat 
and anoint me ; then I shall sleep 
well." Unthlamvu-yetusi said, " I 
am afraid to touch a snake." 
Umamba laughed. They went to 
sleep. 


The people wonder at her courage ; and V mamba's mother rejoices. 


Kwa sa kusasa ba vuka ; kepa 
abantu bonke ekaya ba mangala 
ngokuba be ti, " Sa ze sa m bona 
umntwana o nesibindi kangaka 
ukulala nenyoka end/d ini." 

Kwa ti kusasa unina kamamba 
wa keta ukud/Ja okumnandi ka- 
kulu, wa ku peka, wa ku yisa 
entombini, e kuluma yedwa, e ti, 
" Uma nami nga ngi zele umuntu 
ngempela, u be za 'ku m zeka lo 
'mntwana wabantu." 


They awoke in the morning ; 
and the people wondered, for they 
said, "We never met with a child 
possessed of such courage as to 
sleep in a house with a snake." 

In the morning Umamba's mo- 
ther took some very nice food, and 
cooked it and took it to the dam- 
sel, talking with herself and say- 
ing, " If I too had given birth to 
a real human being, he would have 
married this child of the people." 82 


81 Lit, my damsel, but meaning, my sweetheart or love. 

82 Child of the people, a title of great respect. The natives address their 
chiefs and great men by " Muntu wetu," Man of our people. 


UMAMBA. 


327 


Untldamvu-yetusi anoints Umamba. 


Kwa ti kusiAlwa b' emuka futi 
ba ya 'kulala ; ya ngena leyo 'n- 
tombi ; ba /dala nayo ; ya buye ya 
puma. Wa ti Umamba, " Hamba 
u vale." W' esuka Un/damvu- 
yetusi wa ya 'kuvala. Wa ti 
Umamba, " Kambe na izolo w a- 
lile uku ngi gcoba. A u boni 
ukuba ngi ya hamba kabuAlungu, 
ngi hamba ngesisu? Ku tanda 
uma ku ti lapa se ngi lala ngi gco- 
tshiwe ; kona umzimba u ya 'uta- 
mba, ngi lale kaAle. Ake u ngi 
size, u ngi gcobe namuAla. A ngi 
d/di 'muntu ; nomfana wami u ya 
ngi gcoba nje, ngi nga mu d/di." 
Wa tata umfuma Un/damvu-yetu- 
si, wa tata uluti. Wa ti Umamba, 
" K<?a ; awami amafuta a a kiwa 
ngoluti; a ya kcatazwa nje; a 
tambile." Wa ti Un/dam vu-yetu si, 
" Zigcobe wena ; a ngi tandi uku 
ku gcoba mina." Wa ti Umamba, 
" K^a. A ngi d/di 'muntu. Ngi 
gcobe nje." Wa tata Un/damvu- 
yetusi amafuta, a kcatazelwa esa- 
ndAleni sake, wa m gcoba Uma- 
mba. Kepa ku ti lapa e m gcoba 
'ezwe umzimba wenyoka u banda 
kakulu, 'esabe. A ti Umamba, 
" Kya ; ngi gcobe nje ; a ngi d/di 
'muntu." Wa m yeka e se m 
kgedile uku m gcoba. 


In the evening they again went 
to retire to rest ; the sister of 
Umamba again went into the 
house ; they sat with her ; again 
she went out. Umamba said, " Go 
and close the doorway." Un- 
thlamvu-yetusi arose and closed it. 
Umamba said, " So then yesterday 
you refused to anoint me. Do 
you not see that I move with pain, 
for I go on my belly 1 It is pleasant 
to lie down after having been 
anointed ; then my body is soft, 
and I sleep well. Just help me, 
and anoint me to-day. I devour 
no one ; and my lad only anoints 
me ; I do not devour him." Un- 
thlamvu-yetusi took the pot of fat 
and a stick. Umamba said, " No ; 
my fat is not taken out with a 
stick ; it is just shaken out into 
the hand ; it is soft." Unthlamvu- 
yetusi said, "Anoint yourself; I 
do not like to anoint you for my 
part." Umamba said, "No. I 
devour no man. Just anoint me." 
Unthlamvu-yetusi took the fat, 
and poured it into her hand, and 
anointed Umamba. But when she 
anointed him and felt the body of 
the snake very cold, she was 
afraid. But Umamba said, " No ; 
just anoint me ; I devour no one." 
When she had done anointing 
him, she left him. 


Umamba transformed. 


Wa Alala Umamba isikatsliana, 
wa ti kun/damvu-yetusi, " Bamba 
lapa kumina, u kginise kakulu, u 
ng' elule, ngokuba umzimba wami 
u finyele." Kepa UnAlamvu-ye- 
tusi wa ti, " Ngi y' esaba." Wa 
ti Umamba, " K^a. A ngi z' 'u 
kw enza 'luto. A ngi d/di 'mu- 


Umamba waited a little while, 
and said to Unthlamvu-yetusi, 
" Lay hold of me here very tight, 
and stretch me, for my body is 
contracted." But Unthlamvu-ye- 
tusi said, " I am afraid." Umamba 
said, "No. I shall do you no 
harm. I devour no one. Lay 


R R 


328 


IZINGA NEK WANE. 


ntu. Bambela ensikeni, u bheke 
emsamo ; u nga ngi bbeki mina ; 
u donse ngamand/da ; ngokuba 
ukuhamba kwaEii ku ya ng' apu- 
la ; ngako ngi tanda ukuba ku ti 
lapa se ngi lala umuntu a ng' elu- 
le." Wa bambela ensikeni Un- 
/damvu-yetusi, wa donsa ngama- 
nd/da. W' ezwa e buya nesikumba. 
W a si la/da ngamandAla, w' etuka, 
e ti, " Inyoka." Kepa wa pendula 
ameAlo, wa bheka wa bona Uma- 
mba e muAle kakulu, umzimba 
wake u kazimula. Wa jabula 
kakulu, wa ti, " Wa u nani na?" 


bold of the pillar, and look at the 
upper end of the house; do not 
look at me ; and drag with all your 
might ; for my mode of going 
hurts me ; therefore I like when I 
am lying down that some one 
should stretch me.'' She laid hold 
of the pillar, and dragged with all 
her might. She felt the skin come 
into her hand ; she threw it down 
quickly, and started, thinking it 
was the snake. And she turned 
her eyes and looked, and saw 
Umamba very beautiful, and his 
body glistening. She rejoiced ex- 
ceedingly and said, " What was 
the matter with you 1 " 


Umamba tells Unthlamvu-yetusi his history. 


Wa ti Umamba, " Uma kade e 
bujelwa ; kepa be ti abantu aba- 
ntwana bakwetu ba bulawa udade 
wabo kama. Kepa kwa ti uma e 
nga ka ngi beleti, wa ya kubo, wa 
tsho kumne wabo ukuti, ak' a 
zingele imamba encane, a tate isi- 
kumba sayo. Kwa ti lapa se ngi 
zelwe nga fakwa kuso isikumba 
leso. Kepa bonke bakwiti a b' azi 
uma ngi umuntu ; ba ti ngi inyoka 
impela, ngokuba uma a ka ba tshe- 
langa ukuti ngi umuntu ; u ze u 
nga tsheli 'muntu nawe." 


Wa ti Un/dam vu-yetusi, " Nge- 
zinye izinsuku u ke u si kumule 
ini isikumba lesi naT' Wa ti 
Umamba, " Ehe, umfana wami u 
ya ngi gcoba ngamafuta, a buye a 
ngi kumule nje." Ba lala. 


Umamba said, " My mother had 
for some time lost all her children 
by death ; and the people said that 
the children of our house were 
killed by my mother's sister. Be- 
fore giving birth to me my mother 
went to her people, and told her 
brother to catch a small imamba 
and to take its skin. And when 
I was born I was put into the skin. 
But none of our people knew that 
I was a human being ; they 
thought I was truly a snake, for 
my mother did not tell them that 
I was a man ; and do not you tell 
any one." 

Unthlamvu-yetusi said, " On 
other days do you take off this 
skin ? " Umamba said, "Yes, my 
lad anoints me with fat and takes 
it off." They retired to rest. 


The damsels return to their fathers , accompanied by their lovers. 


Kwa ti kusasa wa ti Un/dam vu- 
yobuAlalu, " Se ngi tanda ukubu- 
yela ekaya manje." Kwa /da/dwa 
izinkomo za ba 'mashumi 'mabili. 


In the morning Unthlamvu-yo- 
butlilalu said, " I now wish to go 
home." They picked out twenty 
head of cattle. Umamba said, " I 


UMAMBA. 


329 


Wa ti Umamba, " Nami, baba, 
ngi ya tanda ukuba ngi kipe ama- 
shumi amabili, ngi ye 'kuk^oma 
le 'ntombi kuyise." Wa vuma 
uyise : wa liamba nenkomo ezi- 
ningi nensizwa ez' endayo. Ba 
hamba. 

Kwa ti lapa be puma ekaya 
Umamba wa ti, a ku patwe um- 
fuma wake ; wa u pata UnAlamvu- 
yetusi. Kwa ti lapa be senkanga- 
la, wa liamba kancane Umamba 
emva. Wa ti kun/damvu-yetusi 
naye a ka liambe kancinane. Ba 
hamba abantu bonke pambili, kepa 
bona bobabili ba hamba emva. 
Wa ti Umamba, " A si Alale pansi, 
u ngi gcobe ngamafuta, u suse isi- 
kurnba, ngokuba ngi ya Alupeka ; 
bu ya ngi bulala utsliani uma ngi 
hambe ngesisu nje." Ba Alala ; 
wa m gcoba ngamafuta, wa m 
donsa ; isikumba sa puma. W' e- 
suka Umamba, wa hamba. Ba 
hamba emva bona. Kwa za kwa 
ti lapa se be ya eduze nabantu, wa 
faka isikumba futi Umamba. 

Umamba ca 

Ba ya ekaya bonke, ba ngena. 
Kepa abantu bakona ba baleka, 
b' esaba inyoka. Ba ti, " Nampa 
abayeni bakanAlamvu - yobuAlalu 
be tika nenyoka." Za ti intombi, 
"Musa ni ukutsho njalo. Um- 
yeni kanAlamvu-yetusi." Ba ma- 
ngala abantu, be ti, " Ku ngani 
ukuba u ng' esabi, loku ku inyoka 
na?" 


Preparations J 

Ba Alatshiswa inkomo ezimbili. 
Kwa ti uma se i pelile inyama ba 
buyela kubo abayeni. Kwa ti 


too, father, wish to take twenty,, 
that I might go and choose this 
damsel at her father's." The fa- 
ther assented, and he went with 
many cattle and young men to 
make the marriage settlement. So 
they set out. 

When they were leaving home 
Umamba told them to take his pot 
of fat ; Unthlamvu-yetusi carried 
it. When they were on the high 
land, Umamba went slowly after 
the rest ; and told Unthlamvu- 
yetusi also to go slowly. All the 
people went on in front, but they 
two went in the rear. Umamba 
said, " Let us sit down, and do you 
anoint me with fat, and take off 
the skin, for I am troubled ; the 
grass hurts me when I go on my 
belly." They sat ; she anointed 
him with fat, and dragged him ; 
the skin came off. Umamba arose 
and walked. They went behind 
the others. And when they were 
near the people Umamba put on 
the skin again. 

ises alarm. 

They reached the damsel's home 
and went in. But all the people 
of the place fled, being afraid of 
the snake. They said, " There is 
the wedding party of Unthlamvu- 
yobuthlalu coming with a snake." 
The damsels said, " Do not say 
thus. That is the bridegroom of 
Unthlamvu-yetusi." The people 
wondered and said, " How is it 
that she is not afraid, since it is a 
snake 1 " 

r the marriage. 

They had many cattle killed for 
them. When the meat was eaten 
the bridegrooms' party returned to 


330 


IZINGANEKWAJTE. 


ngesinye isikati ba tuma umuntu 
ukuba a ye 'ku/dalela umtimba. 
Wa bizwa umtimba; kwa gaywa 
utshwala, kwa tiwa a ku banjwe 
ku ye 'kutatwa umtimba. Ba fika 
nawo. 

Kwa ti kusasa kwa butana aba- 
ntu abaningi, kepa abanye be Aleka 
ngokuba Umamba e nga kw azi 
'kusina, be ti, " Loku e inyoka u 
ya 'usina kanjani na?" Lwa 
ngena udwendwe, ba sina omakoti 
nezintombi namadoda akubo. 

Kwa ti lapa umtimba se u k^e- 
dile ukusina, kw* emuka abayeni 
ba ya 'ku/doba. Umamba wa 
ngena elawini lake, nomfana wake 
wa m gcoba ngamafuta, w' esusa 
isikumba. Wa ti, "Hambauye 
'kubiza uma, a lete izinto zam.i." 
W' eza unina nezinto zake. Wa 
binca konke okwake Umamba, wa 
ti kumfana, " Bheka uma Unsi- 
mba u se pumile ini end/dini na V 
Wa ti umfana, " Ehe, u se pu- 
mile." 


their people. After a time they 
sent a man to wait for the mar- 
riage party . 83 The marriage party 
was summoned ; much beer was 
made, and they were told to go 
and bring up the marriage com- 
pany. They came with it. 

In the morning there assembled 
many people, but some laughed 
because Umamba did not know 
how to dance, saying, " Since he is 
a snake how will he dance V The 
line of wedding guests entered, 
and the brides and the damsels and 
men of their people danced. 

When the marriage company 
had left off dancing, the bride- 
grooms' party went to adorn them- 
selves. Umamba went to his 
house, and his lad anointed him 
with fat, and took off* the skin. 
He said, " Go and call my mother, 
that she may bring my things.'* 
His mother came with his things. 
He adorned himself, and said to 
the lad, " See if Unsimba has al- 
ready left his house." The lad 
replied, "Yes, he has already left 
it." 


Umamba reveals himself at the wedding-tlance. 


Wa tata Umamba esikulu isi- 
kumba, wa faka sona, wa puma e 
hamba ngesisu. Kwa ti bonke 
abantu aba m bonayo ba ti, " Ma- 
nje u se mkulu kakulu, ngokuba e 
gcobe amafuta." Wa ya esibayeni, 
wa Alala pansi. Kwa ti lapa aba- 
yeni bonke se b' emi, Umamba wa 
nyakaza, w' eza umfana wake, wa 
m bamba ekanda, w' esusa isi- 
kumba. Kepa bonke abantu b' a - 
Muleka uku m bheka ukukazimula 
kwake. 


Umamba took a great skin, 
and put it on and went out, going 
on his belly. When the people 
saw him they all said, " Now he is 
very great, because he has anoint- 
ed with fat." He went to the 
cattle-pen and sat down. When 
all the bridegrooms' men stood up, 
Umamba wriggled himself, and his 
lad came and laid hold of his head, 
and took off the skin. And all 
the people were unable to look on 
him because of his glistening ap- 
pearance. 


83 The man who goes to wait for the marriage party is called Umkongi or 
UmMaleli. His office is to urge on the friends of the bride to hasten the mar- 
riage ; he stays at the bride's kraal, and there is guilty of all kinds of mischief 
until they get tired of him, and the wedding party sets out. 


UN AN AN A-BOS EEE. 


331 


Unsimba fears , an 

Unsimba w' emuka \va ya en- 
d/dini, 'esaba ngokuba e bonile 
ukuba Umamba u umuntu ; wa 
tukutela kakulu. Abantu bonke 
ba mangala ngoku m bona e se 
umuntu. Ba m bamba be ti, 
" Kade w enziwe ini na V Uyise 
w' ala ukuba ku sin we ngalolo 
'lusuku. Wa ti, " Ku ya 'usinwa 
ngomso, ngokuba ngi tanda uku m 
bona namuAla." 


Umamba marrie 

Kwa ti lapo unina wa jabula 
ngokuba umntwana wake e zekile. 
Kwa buyelwa ezind/dini, kwa /da- 
lwa. Kwa ti kusasa kwa sinwa ; 
kepa Unsimba e /dupeka ngokuba 
e bona Umamba e umuntu. Ba 
Ztlala bonke, uyise e jabula kakulu 
e bona Umamba ukuba u umuntu. 
W } aka owake umuzi, wa h \ ala 
nabantu abaningi aba tanda ukwa- 
ka naye. Wa ti lapa e se tungile 
wa zeka abafazi abaningi. Wa 
busa nabo. 

Lydia (Umkasetemba). 


I the people rejoice. 

Unsimba went away to his 
house, being afraid because he saw 
that Umamba was a human being ; 
he was very angry. All the peo- 
ple wondered when they saw that 
he was now a man. They laid 
hold of him, saying, "What has 
been done to you all this time 1 " 
His father refused to allow them 
to dance on that day. He said, 
"You shall dance to-morrow, for I 
wish to look at him to-day." 

?, and is happy. 

Then the mother rejoiced be- 
cause her child had taken a wife. 
The people returned to the house 
and sat down. In the morning 
they danced ; but Unsimba was 
much troubled because he saw that 
Umamba was a human being. 
They all remained, rejoicing ; the 
father rejoiced exceedingly when 
he saw that Umamba was a human 
being. Umamba built his own 
village, and lived there with many 
people, who wished to live with 
him. And when he had sewn on 
the headring he married many 
wives ; and lived happily and pros- 
perously with them. 


UNANANA-BOSELE. 


Unanana builds in the road. 


Kwa ku kona umfazi owa e naba- 
ntwana ababili abancane, be baku- 
lu kakulu ; kepa kwa ku kona 
omunye umntwana owa e sala 
nabo. Kepa lo 'mfazi ku tiwa wa 


There was a woman who had two 
young children ; they were very 
fine ; and there was another child 
who used to stay with them. But 
that woman, it is said, had wil- 


332 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


y ake end/deleni ngabomo, e temba 
ubuk^a nobunggotsho. 


fully built her house in the road, 
trusting to self-confidence and su- 
perior power. 84 


Various animals visit her house in her absence. 


Kepa ngesinye isikati w' emuka 
wa ye 'kuteza ; wa ba shiya bodwa 
abantwana. Kwa fika inkau, ya 
ti, " Abakabani laba 'bantwana 
aba/de kangaka na % " Wa ti um- 
ntwana, " Abakananana - bosele." 
Ya ti, " W' aka endAleleni nga- 
bomo, e temba ubuk^a nobung^o- 
tsho." 

Kwa buya kwa fika impunzi, 
nayo ya tsho njalo. Wa ti um- 
ntwana, " Abakananana - bosele." 
Zonke izilwane zi fika zi m buza 
njalo, wa za wa kala umntwana 
ngokwesaba. 


On a certain occasion she went 
to fetch firewood, and left her 
children alone. A baboon came 
and said, " Whose are those re- 
markably beautiful children 1 " 
The child replied, "Unanana-bo- 
sele's." 85 The baboon said, " She 
built in the road on purpose, 
trusting to self-confidence and 
superior power." 

Again an antelope came and ask- 
ed the same question. The child 
answered, " They are the children 
of Unanana-bosele." All animals 
came and asked the same question, 
until the child cried for fear. 


An elephant swallows the children. 


Kwa fika indAlovu enkulu ka- 
kulu, ya ti, " Abakabani laba 'ba- 
ntwana aba/ile kangaka na V Wa 
ti, " Abakananana - bosele." Ya 
pinda ya ti, " Abakabani laba 'ba- 
ntwana aba/de kangaka na V Wa 
ti, " Abakananana-bosele." Ya ti, 
" W' aka end/deleni ngabomo, e 
temba ubuk^a nobunggotsho." Ya 
ba gwinya bobabili ; ya shiya 
leyo 'ntombazana. Ya hamba in- 
d/dovu. 


Kwa ti ntambama wa fika uni- 
na, wa ti, " Ba pi abantwana na ?" 
Ya ti intombazana, " Ba tatwe 
indAlovu e nopondo lunye." Wa 
ti Unanana-bosele, "I ye ya ba 
beka pi na? " Ya ti intombazana, 


A very large elephant came and 
said, " Whose are those remarkably 
beautiful children ? " The child 
replied, " Unanana-bosele's." The 
elephant asked the second time, 
" Whose are those remarkably 
beautiful children 1 " The child 
replied, " Unanana-bosele's." The 
elephant said, " She built in the 
road on purpose, trusting to self- 
confidence and superior power." 
He swallowed them both, and left 
the little child. The elephant then 
went away. 

In the afternoon the mother 
came and said, "Where are the 
children?" The little girl said, 
" They have been taken away by 
an elephant with one tusk." 
Unanana-bosele said, " Where did 
he put them 1 " The little girl 


84 Ubungqotsho is any thing by which a man trusts to attain superiority, 
wordiness, craftiness, bodily strength, a name, passion, power ; all this in one 
is ubungqotsho. 

85 Unanana-bosele. — Isinana is a batrachian reptile, nearly globular, with 
very short legs, and exuding a milky fluid when touched. It is frequently found 
under stones.— Bosele, of the family of frogs. 


UNANANA-BOSELE. 


333 


" I ba d/dile." Wa ti Tlnanana- 
bosele, " Ba file ini na 1 " Ya ti 
intombazana, " K^a. A ng' azi." 


replied, " He ate them." Unana- 
na-bosele said, " Are they dead ? " 
The little girl replied, "No. I do 
not know." 


She goes in search of the elephant. 


Ba lala. Kwa ti kusasa wa 
gaya umkcaba omningi, wa tela 
okambeni olukulu kanye namasi, 
wa hamba e pete nomkonto wake. 
Wa fika lapo ku kona impunzi ; 
wa ti, " Mama, mama, ngi bonisele 
indAlovu e d/de abantabami ; i 'lu- 
pondo lunye." Ya ti impunzi, 
"U ya 'uhamba u fike lapo imiti 
yakona imide, na lapo amagcaki 
akona em/dope." Wa dAlula. 


Wa fika lapo ku kona isilo ; wa 
ti, "Mama, mama, ngi bonisele 
ind/dovu e d/de abantabami." Sa 
ti, "U ya 'uhamba, u hambe, u 
fike lapo imiti yakona imide, na 
lapo amagcaki akona em/dope." 


They retired to rest. In the 
morning she ground much maize, 
and put it into a large pot with 
amasi, and set out, carrying a 
knife in her hand. She came to the 
place where there was an antelope ; 
she said, " Mother, mother, point 
out for me the elephant which has 
eaten my children ; she has one 
tusk." The antelope said, " You will 
go till you come to a place where 
the trees are very high, and where 
the stones are white." She went 
on. 

She came to the place where 
was the leopard ; she said, " Mo- 
ther, mother, point out for me the 
elephant which has eaten my 
children." The leopard replied, 
"You will go on and on, and come 
to the place where the trees are 
high, and where the stones are 
white." 


The elephant attempts to deceive her t 


Wa hamba e d/dula kuzo zonke, 
zi tsho njalo. Wa ti e kude wa 
bona imiti emide kakulu, nama- 
gcaki am /dope pansi kwemiti. Wa 
i bona i lele pansi kwemiti. Wa 
hamba ; wa fika, w' ema, wa ti, 
"Mama, mama, ngi bonisele in- 
d/dovu e dAle abantabami." Ya 
ti, " U ya 'uhamba, u hambe, u 
fike lapo imiti yakona imide, na 
lapo amagcaki akona em/dope." 
W' ema nje umfazi, wa buza futi, 


She went on, passing all animals, 
all saying the same. When she 
was still at a great distance she 
saw some very high trees and 
white stones below them. She 
saw the elephant lying under the 
trees. She went on ; when she 
came to the elephant she stood still 
and said, "Mother, mother, point 
out for me the elephant which has 
eaten my children." The elephant 
replied, " You will go on and on, 
and come to where the trees are 
high, and where the stones are 
white." The woman merely stood 


334 


I2ISGANEKWANE. 


wa ti, " Mama, mama, ngi bonisele 
ind/dovu e dAle abantabami." Ya 
buya ya m tshela i ti, ak' a d/du- 
lele pambili. Kepa umfazi e bona 
nkuba i yona leyo, ya m ko/disa 
ukuti ak' a d/dulele pambili, wa 
tsho futi e ti, " Mama, mama, ngi 
bonisele ind/dovu e d/de abanta- 
bami." 


still, and asked again, saying, 
"Mother, mother, point out for 
me the elephant which has eaten 
my children." The elephant again 
told her just to pass onward. But 
the woman, seeing that it was the 
very elephant she was seeking, 
and that she was deceiving her by 
telling her to go forward, said a 
third time, "Mother, mother, point 
out for me the elephant which has 
eaten my children." 


The elephant swallows her , to her sorrow. 


Ya m bamba, ya m g winy a naye. 
Wa iika pakati esiswini sayo, wa 
bona ama/dati amakulu, nemifula 
emikulu, nezinkangala eziningi ; 
ngen.renye ku kona amadwala 
amaningi ; nabantu abaningi ab' a- 
ke imizi yabo kona; nezinja ezi- 
ningi, nezinkomo eziningi; konke 
ku kona pakati ; wa bona nabanta 
bake be /dezi kona. Wa fika, wa 
ba pa amasi ; wa ti, " Kade ni 
d/da ni na? " Ba ti, "A si dAla- 
nga 'luto. Sa lala nje." Wa ti, 
" Ini uma ni ng' osi inyama le 
na?" Ba ti, "Uma si si sika 
isilo lesi, a si yi 'ku si bulala na ?" 
Wa ti, " K^a ; si*ya 'kufa sona ; a 
ni yi 'kufa nina." Wa basa um- 
lilo omkulu. Wa sika isibindi, 
w' osa, wa d/da nabanta bake. Ba 
sika nenyama, b' osa, ba d/da. 


Ba mangala abantu bonke aba 
kona lapo, be ti, "Wo, kantiku 
ya d/diwa, lapa tina si /dezi si nga 
d/di 'luto nje na ?" Wa ti lo 'mfa- 
zi, " Ehe. I ya d/diwa indAlovu." 
Ba sika bonke labo 'bantu, ba 
d/da. 


The elephant seized her and 
swallowed her too. When she 
reached the elephant's stomach, 
she saw large forests, and great 
rivers, and many high lands ; on 
one side there were many rocks ; 
and there were many people who 
had built their villages there ; and 
many dogs and many cattle; all 
was there inside the elephant ; she 
saw too her own children sitting 
there. She gave them amasi, and 
asked them what they ate before 
she came. They said, "We have 
eaten nothing. We merely lay 
down." She said, " Why did you 
not roast this flesh? " They said, 
" If we eat this beast, will it not 
kill us ? " She said, " No ; it will 
itself die ; you will not die." She 
kindled a great tire. She cut the 
liver, and roasted it and ate with 
her children. They cut also the 
flesh, and roasted and ate. 

All the people which were there 
wondered, saying, " O, forsooth, 
are they eating, whilst we have 
remained without eating any 
thing ?" The woman said, " Yes, 
yes. The elephant can be eaten." 
All the people cut and ate. 


THE WISE SON OF THE KING. 


335 


The elephant dies. 


Kepa yona indAlovu ya zi tshela 
ezinye izilwane, ya ti, " Seloku 
nga gwinya lo 'mfazi, ngi ya fa ; 
ku 'buAlungu esiswini sami." Zi 
ti ezinye izilo, u U nga be, nkosi, 
kw enza ngokuba abantu se be ba- 
ningi kakulu esiswini sako." Ke- 
pa kwa ti lapa se ku isikati esi- 
kulu, ya fa indAlovu. Wa i dabula 
ngomkonto, e genca imbambo 
ngembazo. Kwa puma inkoino, 
ya ti, " Mn, mu, sa za sa li bona 
ilizwe." Kwa puma imbuzi, ya ti, 
" Me, me, sa za sa li bona ilizwe." 
Kwa puma inja, ya ti, " Sa za sa 
li bona ilizwe." Nabantu ba puma 
be Aleka, be ti, " Sa za sa li bona 
ilizwe." Ba mu pa lowo 'mfazi ; 
abanye inkomo, abanye nezimbuzi, 
abanye nezimvu. Wa hamba na- 
banta bake, e fuyile kakulu. Wa 
fika ekaya, wa jabula ngokuba e 
buye nabo abanta bake. Wa fika 
i kona leyo 'ntombazana yake ; ya 
jabula ngokuba ya i ti unina u se 
file. 

Lydia (XJmkasetemba). 


And the elephant told the other 
beasts, saying, " From the time I 
swallowed the woman I have been 
ill ; there has been pain in my 
stomach." The other animals 
said , 86 " It may be, O chief, it 
arises because there are now so 
many people in your stomach." 
And it came to pass after a long 
time that the elephant died. The 
woman divided the elephant with 
a knife, cutting through a rib with 
an axe. A cow came out and said, 
" Moo, moo, we at length see the 
country." A goat came out and 
said, " Mey, mey, at length we see 
the country." A dog came out 
and said, " At length we see the 
country." And the people came 
out laughing and saying, " At 
length we see the country." They 
made the woman presents ; some 
gave her cattle, some goats, and 
some sheep. She set out with her 
children, being very rich. She 
went home rejoicing because she 
had come back with her children. 
On her arrival her little girl was 
there ; she rejoiced, because she 
was thinking that her mother was 
dead. s 7 


UMNTWANA WENKOSI OHLAKANIPILEYO. 
(the wise son of the king.) 


The "king's daughters bathe. A strange thing happens to the youngest. 

Kwa ti inkosi yasempumalanga ya | A king of the east reigned over a 
b' i nesizwe esikulu ; ya i nezin- | large nation ; he had many daugh- 

36 In another narration the elephant is represented as uttering a loud and 
prolonged groan, when the woman began to cut slices from the liver, and as the 
operation proceeded, the groans became so terrible and reached so far that the 
animals were startled where they were feeding, and attracted to the place where 
the elephant was. 

87 Compare this Tale with the account of the Isik^uk^umadevu, p. 56 — 60. 
And with Ugunggu-kubantwana, p. 176. 


s s 


33G 


IZINCANEKWANE. 


tombi eziningi, zi nesiziba sazo. 
Kwa t' emini za puma za butana 
za ya esizibeni, za ya 'kubukuda. 
Ya puma encinyane, ya ngena esi- 
zibeni. Za tukulula ke impaAla 
yazo, za ngena ke zonke, za buku- 
da. Za bukuda, za bukuda. Ya 
puma encinyane, ya puma ya kala 
ngapezulu kwesiziba, ya ti, " Puma 
ni, ni zo'ubona mjna, ukuba ngi 
nani. Buka ni, amabel' ami a se 
kukumele e nganga omfazi, a nga- 
nga wenu futi, nina zintombi." 


Za puma ke zonke esizibeni, za 
ti, "A si buye si ye kubaba, si ye 
'ku m bonisa lo 'mntwana wake, 
ukuba u nani na." Za fika ke 
ekaya enkosini e ng' uyise, za ti, 
" Baba, a u bone loku ; nangu 
umntwana wako. Si be si ye 'ku- 
bukuda ; sa m bona e se puma esi- 
zibeni e se amabel' ake se makulu 
nje." Wa ti uyise, "A p' ama- 
doda ? " 


The king calls a, counci 

A fik' amadoda, wa ti, " Linga- 
nisa ni lo 'm/dola, nokuba ukufa 
ini na 1 Linganisa ni, nina badala, 
ukuba kwa ka kw' enza ini loku 
na ? Na ka na ku bona ini na ? 
Umntwana engaka a be nje ama- 
bel' ake na ? Loku e be nga ka 
fanele njena ukuba amabel' ake a 
ngangaka, e ng' umntwana nje 
na ? " 

La ti ibandAla, " Kga ; si nge 
ze sa kw azi loku. UinAlola. A 
ku kulume wena, wena umntwana 
e ng' owako." Ya ti inkosi, 
" K^a ! Ka pume lap' ekaya. 


ters ; they had their own pool in 
the river where they bathed. At 
noon on a certain day they left 
their homes and joined company 
and went to the pool ; they went 
to sport in the water. One little 
one started out from among them 
and went into the pool. So they 
all took off their dresses, and went 
into the pool and sported. They 
sported and sported. The little 
one went out and shouted on the 
bank of the pool, saying, " Come 
out, and see what is the matter 
with me. Look, my breasts are 
swollen, as large as a woman's, as 
big as yours too, ye maidens." 

They all went out of the pool 
and said, " Let us go back to our 
father, and show him what is the 
matter with this child of his." So 
they came home to the king their 
father, and said, " Father, look at 
this ; there is your child. We 
went to sport in the water ; we 
observed, when she came out of 
the pool, that her breasts were as 
large as this." The father said, 
" Where are the men 1 " 

to consider the matter. 

When the men came he said, 
" Consider this wonderful thing, 
and whether it is disease or not ? 
Consider, ye old men, if there ever 
was such a thing as this 1 Did you 
ever see it before 1 The breasts of 
a child of this age to be as big as 
this ? Since it is not proper that 
her breasts should be so large, she 
being so young a child 1 " 

The council answered, " No ; we 
have never known of such a thing. 
It is a prodigy. Do you speak, 
you whose child she is." The king 
said, " No ! Let her depart from 
her home amongst us. For I do 


TI1E WISE SON OF THE KING. 


337 


Ngokuba lesi 'silo csi ngapakati 
kwake unmtwana a ng' azi ukuba 
si ya 'kupuma s' enze njani na. 
Ngi ti rnina, isilo esi lapa esiswini 
somntananii. Ngi ti, ka si ye 'ku- 
puma e lige ko lapa ekaya, nakuba 
e fa, a fe ngingam boni u kupuma 
kwalesi 'silo." 


The little one is dr 

Wa kala ke umntwaua. Za 
kala ke zonke izintombi, urna e se 
puma, za ti, " Umnta kababa kaz' u 
za 'kuya ngapi na 1 " 


not know what the beast with 
which the child is pregnant, will do 
when it is born. I say, there is 
a beast inside the child. I say, 
let it go to a distance and be 
born, at a distance from this home 
of ours, even though she die, that 
she may die without my seeing her 
when the beast is born." 

len from her home. 

The child wept. And all the 
maidens wept when she left her 
home, saying, " Alas, whither will 
the child of our father go ? " 


She wanders , not knowing where to go. 


Wa hamba ke, wa puma ekaya; 
wa dinga nje ; emzini woyise wa 
puma. Wa dinga, wa dinga, wa 
dinga. Kwa ku kulu ukudiuga 
kwake e miti leso 'sisu. 


So she went, leaving her home ; 
she knew not where to go; she 
quitted her father's village. She 
wandered hither and thither with- 
out an aim. Her wandering in 
uncertainty was great whilst thus 
pregnant. 


She gives birth to a bog. 


Wa za wa fika kwomuny' umu- 
zi o nga si wo woyise. Wa m 
zala umntwana ; umntwana wa m 
zalela esizweni esinye. Wa ti, 
" Be ngi ti ngi mit' isilo ; kanti 
ngi mit' umuntu." Kwa fik' aba- 
kubo e se m zele aba m funako ; 
ba m funyana, ba ti, " Si funa 
wena. UyiAlo u ti, a si liambe si 
funa wena lap' u fele kona, ama- 
tambo nje. Kanti u lapa 11a?" 
Wa ti, " Ngi zele. Ngi zele umu- 
ntu, umfana wami ." 88 Wa ti, "A 


88 Comp, what is said by the 


At length she came to another 
village, not belonging to her fa- 
ther. She gave birth to a child ; 
she gave birth to it among another 
people. She said, "I thought I 
was pregnant with a beast ; and 
forsooth I have given birth to a 
human being." When she had 
given birth to the child her friends 
came who were seeking her ; when 
they found her they said, "We 
are seeking you. Your father told 
us to go and seek for the place 
where you died, and find if it were 
but your bones. And in truth are 
you here ?" She replied, " I have 
become a mother. I have given 
birth to a human being, my own 
boy." She said, " Let us go home 

[• of Ukcombekcansini, p. 116. 


338 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


si buye. Ngi ya vuma, ngi zele 
umuntu. A ng' azi ukuba wa 
ngena ngapi. Ngokuba ni ya 
ng' azi ukuba ngi be ngi nga ka 
faneli ukuba ngi nga nesisu. Na 
odade ba ya ng' azi e ngi hamba 
nabo uba a ngi bonanga ngi kulu- 
ma nandoda. Ngi kginisile. Na- 
irn ngi m pete ngokuba ngi bone 
ku ng' umuntu ; ngi be ngi ya 'ku 
m la/tla inxa ku be ku isilwane. 
Ngi bone ku umuntu nje." 


She returns 

Ba hamba ke ba buya ke ukuya 
enkosini yasempumalanga. Ba 
fika ke ekaya enkcwini. Ya jabula 
inkosi ; ya but' isizwe, ya ti, 
" Woza ni nonke ;" ya ti, " Bonga 
ni nonke. Lo 'mntwana m bonge 
ni. Bonga ni, jabula ni, ngokuba 
umntwana womntwana nje wami, 
ngokuba ka si ye wandoda ; ngo- 
kuba u be nga k' endi ; umntwana 
wami nje." 

The child becom 

Wa kula ke ; w' elapa, wa in- 
yanga, wa siza, w' aAlula izinyanga. 
Wa bizwa ngokuti, Umntwana 
wenkosi oAlakanipile. Wa mkulu 
kubo bonke abantwana benkosi 
ngokutandwa. 

Ku gcwale abantu emzini wen- 
kosi aba ye 'kwelatshwa ; wa z' a- 
Alula izinyanga zonke. Abantu 
ab' a/dula izinyanga ngokufa kwa- 
bo wa ba siza kakulu kuso sonke 
isizwe soyise. Wa puma, wa 
hamba kuzo zonke izizwe, e ha- 
mb' 'elapa, e Alala nje 'elapa, e 
siz' abantu. 


again. I am willing, for I have 
given birth to a human being. I 
know not how he entered within 
me. For you know that I was 
not yet of sufficient age to become 
pregnant. And my sisters with 
whom I went know that I never 
spoke with a man. I speak the 
truth. And I myself have taken 
care of my child, because I saw it 
was a human being ; I would have 
forsaken him if it had been an 
animal. I saw that it was a real 
human being." 

to her home. 

So they set out and returned to 
go to the king of the east. They 
reached the king's home. The 
king was glad ; he told the whole 
nation to assemble ; he said, " All 
of you give praise. Praise this 
child. Praise and rejoice, for he 
is the child of my child only, for 
he is not the child of a male ; for 
she had not married; he is my 
child only." 

s a great doctor . 

So he grew up ; he treated dis- 
eases, he was a doctor, he alle- 
viated suffering, and excelled other 
doctors. He was named, The wise 
son of the king. He was greater 
than all the king's children as re- 
gards being beloved. 

The king's town was full of 
people who went there to be heal- 
ed ; he excelled all other doc- 
tors. People whom the doctors 
could not cure of their diseases, 
those he helped much throughout 
the whole nation over which 
his father reigned. He left 
his country and travelled among 
all nations, going about healing 
diseases, and merely staying in a 
place to heal diseases and to help 
the people. 


THE GREAT TORTOISE. 


339 


He goes about with Ids mother doing works of mercy. 


Naye unina nabanye abantu a 
hamba nabo nonina, ba hambe b' e- 
lapa nabo ; e nga nikwa 'nto ; e ti, 
" Ngi umntwana wenkosi mina ; 
ngi ya ni siza nje. Ubaba u in- 
kosi, u nako konke. Ngi ya ni 
siza nje ngomsa." Za ti nezizwe 
za hambe zi ti, " Nati se si ng' a- 
boyi/do, ngokuba ku si funi 'luto 
umvuzo : se si ng' aboyi/do nati. 
U inkosi." 


Ka be s' aziwa ke kwabo-nto- 
mbi. Wa hamba njalonjalo. Uku- 
pela kwayo. 

Nga i tola le 'ndaba kumam/de- 
kwa wakwandAlovu ; uyise ng' U- 
zikisa, ngesikati ku sa busa Uzi- 
41an/do, uyise kasingela, notshaka 
kasenzangakona. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


His mother too and others who 
went with him and his mother, 
also treated diseases. He was not 
given any reward. He said, " I 
am a king's child ; I have no other 
object than that of helping you. 
My father is a king, and possesses 
all things. I help you from pure 
mercy." The nations too said con- 
tinually, " We too are the children 
of your father, because you seek 
nothing of us as a reward ; we are 
now the children of your father. 
He is king." 

So he ceased to be known among 
the people of that maiden, lie 
went about without ceasing. That 
is the end of the matter. 

I received this account from 
Umamthlekwa Wakwandhlovu ; 
Uzikisa was her father, at the time 
when Uzithlantlilo, the father of 
Usingela, was king, and Utshaka, 
the son of Usenzangakona. S9 


UFTJDU OLUKULU. 
(the great tortoise.) 


Kwa ti ngend/dala, (kwa se ku 
busa Ugobinca, umfo wabo bi/da, 
owa bulawa XJmdingi,) omame ba 
be yokuka imfino, be hamba no- 
makulu, be batatu, ku ng' umakulu 
'wesine. Ba fika emtshezi umfula. 
Ba ti, ncca be pakati, kwa vuka 
kwa ku nga ufudu olukulu olu 
ngangesikumba senkabi, lw' ema 
pakati kwamanzi ; amanzi a gcwa- 
la, ngokuba lwa vimbele. Ba 


It happened in the time of the 
famine, (Ugobinca was then king, 
the brother of Ubithla, who was 
killed by Umdingi,) our mothers 
went to gather herbs ; they went 
with our grandmother ; they were 
three, and grandmother was the 
fourth. They came to the river 
Umtshezi. When they were in 
the midst, there arose as it were a 
great tortoise, which was as big as 
the skin of an ox. It stood in the 
midst of the water ; the river fill- 
ed, because it had obstructed the 
water. The three passed over ; 


89 There can be little doubt that this is a legend of some perverted tradition 
of the history of our Lord. It was probably obtained through the Portuguese. 


340 


12IHGANEKWANE. 


wela abatatu ; wa tshona owesine, 
o 'mamekulu ngokugcwala kwa- 
manzi. Lwa m tata ke, lwa m 
bamba ngomlenze, lwa ya esizibe- 
ni ; lwa m veza nje ; wa vela nje, 
ba za ba pelela abantwana bake, 
ba kala pezu kwesiziba. Lwa 
tshona naye. 


Kwa ti ngelinye ilanga b' alnsa 
abafana emtshezi. Inkomo za ha- 
mba za fika emtshezi. TJmfana 
wa ponsa itshe esizibeni. Inkomo 
za baya ke, za fik' ekaya. Wa ti 
unina, " LAlana, nank' ukudAla 
kwako." Wa ti umfana, "A ngi 
ku tandi ukud/da ; ngi ye esizibeni 
mina." Wa t' unina, " U za 'kwe- 
nza nil" Wa ti, "Ngi tanda 
ukuya 'kuzifaka kona." Wa ti, 
" Ini e kona esizibeni na ? " Wa 
tsho, e se kala umfana izinye- 
mbezi, wa puma endAlini, wa 
gijima kakulu. Wa puma unina 
endAlini, wa ti, " Majola, gijima ; 
nank' umntwana e ti, u ye esizi- 
beni ; m bonise ni ; u ya kala." 
W' esuka uyise neband/da ; wa 
gijima ; iband/da la m landela. La 
fika e se pakati esizibeni, e se vele 
ngekanda. Uyise wa tanda uku- 
zila/da kona esizibeni ; la m bamba 
iband/da ; ba ti, " Musa ; u se e 
file lo 'mntwana." Wa ti uyise, 
"Ngi koke inkomo zonke ; umu- 
ntu u ya 'kuziketela inkomo en/de 
o ya 'ku m koka umntwana wami ; 
u ya 'kuziketela inkomo en/de. 
Ngi ya fa ; ngi jiyelwe ukuba 
ng' enza njani ngomntanami." La 
za la tshona ilanga, e vele umfana 


the fourth, which was the grand- 
mother, sank, because the river 
was full. The tortoise took her, 
and held her and went with her 
into the deep water ; it just raised 
her above the water ; she was just 
apparent, until all her children 
had come together ; they lamented 
on the bank of the deep water. 
The tortoise went down with her. 


It happened on another day 
some boys were herding on the 
Umtshezi. The cattle went till 
they came to the Umtshezi. A 
boy threw a stone into the pool. 
The cattle returned home. His 
mother said to him, " Eat ; there 
is your food." The boy said, " I 
do not wish for food. I am going 
to the pool for my part." The 
mother said, " What are you going 
to do ? " He said, " I wish to go 
and get into it ." 90 The mother 
said, " What is there in the pool?" 
The boy now shedding tears went 
out of the house, and ran fast. 
His mother went out of the house 
and said, " Umajola, run ; there is 
the child, saying he is going to the 
pool ; look to him well ; he is cry- 
ing." The father started up with 
a company ; he ran, the company 
followed him. When they arrived 
the child was already in the midst 
of the pool, liis head only appear- 
ing. The father wished to throw 
himself into the pool ; the com- 
pany held him back ; they said, 
" Don't ; the child is already dead." 
The father said, "I set forth all 
my cattle ; the man shall select a 
fine bullock who takes out my 
child ; he shall select for himself a 
beautiful bullock. I am dying ; I 
am at a loss to tell what to do for 
my child." At length the sun 
set, the boy still appearing in the 


00 See Appendix, p. 342. 


THE GREAT TORTOISE. 


341 


emanzini csizibeni. Kwa za kwa 
fika abantu bonke beiuizi. Kwa 
za kwa Aiwa, ku Aleziwe pezu 
kwesiziba, ku kalwa kona. Wa 
za wa tshona. Ebusuku se ku 
baswe umlilo e se bonwa ngesi- 
bane, e kuluma e ti, " Ngi banjiwe 
ngenyawo." Wa tshona naye. 
Ba goduka, ba buya ke ba y' eka- 
ya, ba Alakazek' abantu, be ti, " U 
dAliwe ufudu." Kwa tshaywa 
inkabi ; ya ya 'kubika kungonya- 
ma, uyise kabiAla. 


Kwa ti abafana ba ya 'kudAlala 
emfuleni kuwomtshezi ; ba ti be 
fika ba ti, " Nanti idwala eliAle ; 
a si biye izibaya zetu ngobulo- 
ngwe." IJfudu ke. Ba buye ke 
ba pinda ba ya kona. Wa ti um- 
fana omncinane, " Leli 'dwala li 
nameAlo." Ba ti abanye, " Ivgabo ; 
u namanga." A ti, "Li nawo 
am e/do." A tule ; a tate intonga 
yake, a Alabe esweni lofudu, a ti, 
" Ini leli 'liAlo na 1 Nanti iliAlo 
libhekile." Ba ti, "A li ko ili- 
Alo, mfana," be biya izibaya ngo- 
bulongvve. Wa fika ekaya umfana 
omncinane, wa ti, " Li kona idwa- 
la eli nameAlo." Wa pendula 
uyise, wa ti, " Ame/do anjani a 
sedwaleni na ? " Wa ti, " Kga ; a 
kona ameAlo." 


Kwa ti ngelinye ilanga lwa ba 
sibekela ufudu ; wa wela kude 
lapaya omunye omncinane ; wa 
hamba e kala e y* ekaya ; ba buza 
ekaya, ba ti, " U nani na ] " Wa 
ti, " Abanye ba sitsliekelwe Ti- 
dwala ; la ngena nabo esizibeni." 


water of the pool At length all 
the people of the village came. 
When it was dark they sat down 
on the bank of the pool and 
lamented there. At length he 
sank. At night they lit a fire, he 
being still visible by the light, and 
speaking said, " I am held by the 
foot." He too sank. They went 
home, and the people separated, 
saying, " He has been devoured by 
the tortoise." An ox was selected, 
and went to tell Ungonyama, the 
father of IJbithla. 91 


It happened that some boys 
went to play on the banks of the 
river Umtshezi ; on their arrival 
they said, " There is a beautiful 
rock ; let us make our cattle-pens 
upon it with cowdung." But it 
was a tortoise. [They fetched 
some cowdung] and went back to 
it again. A little boy said, " This 
rock has eyes." The others said, 
" No ; you are telling lies." He 
said, " It has eyes." He was si- 
lent ; and took his stick, and thrust 
it into the tortoise's eye, saying, 
" What is this eye 1 See, the eye 
stares." They said, " There is no 
eye, child," they making their pens 
with cattle-dung. The little boy 
came home, and said, " There is a 
rock which has eyes." His father 
answered, " What kind of eyes are 
in the rock ? " He said, " Indeed, 
there are eyes." 

It happened on another day the 
tortoise turned over with them ; 
one little boy crossed the river at 
a great distance ; he went crying 
home ; they asked, " What is the 
matter ? " He said, " The rock 
has turned over with the other 
boys ; it went with them into tlie 


91 That is, in accordance with native custom, the messengers who go to re- 
port to the chief, do not go empty-handed ; but take a bullock, which is said to 
go and tell the chief. 


342 


IZIXGANEKWANE. 


Ba pela bonke ; kwa sinda omu- 
nye, yena lowo owa ya ekaya e 
hamb' e kala. A puma amadoda, 
a ti, " Hamba u ye 'ku si kombisa 
lapo idwala li be li kona." Ba 
fika ; wa ti, " Nanku ke lapa 
idwala li be li kona. ,, A ti ama- 
doda, " Inganti ufudu nje na? 
Kanti ba d/di we nje na abantwa- 
na ?" A ba sa ba bonanga. Kwa 
kalwa ke. Kwa bikwa ke, ku 
bikelwa abantu bonke. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


pool." They -were all lost ; there 
escaped that one only, who went 
home crying. The men went out 
and said, " Go and point out to us 
the place where the rock was." 
They arrived ; he said, " There is 
the place where the rock used to 
be." The men said, " Was it then 
a tortoise ? Have then the chil- 
dren been devoured 1 " They saw 
them no more. They mourned for 
them. And all the people were 
told the history. 92 


APPENDIX. 


Ngaloko 'kukumbula isiziba k wa- 
ke umfana, e nga sa d/di nokud/da, 
ku kona indaba ngaloko 'kwenza 
okunjalo. Ku tiwa, ku kona isi- 
lwane emanzini es' azi ukutata isi- 
tunzi somuntu; lapa e lunguzile 
si si tate ; lowo 'muntu a nga be e 
sa tanda ukubuyela emuva, a tande 
kakulu ukungena esizibeni ; ku- 
yena ku nga ti a ku ko 'kufa ku- 
lawo 'manzi ; ku njengokuba e ya 
ebu/deni nje lapa ku nge ko 'luto ; 
a fe ngokungena e dAliwa isilwane, 
esi nga bonwanga kukgala, ku 
bon we ngoku m bamba ; ku tshiwo 
ke ukuti, " Kanti si tate isitunzi 
sake ; ka sa boni ; u se 'meAlo 
'nmyama ; ka sa boni 'luto ; i yo 
le 'nto e m enze ukuba a be nje." 
I leyo ke indaba e ngi y aziyo uma 
ku tshiwo. 


Kw' aliwa futi ukuba umuntu a 
lunguze esizibeni esimnyama, kw e- 
satshwa kona loko ukutatwa kwesi- 
tunzi sake. 

Ku kona ngasemakccoseni indaba 
e njenga le yokuti ku kona isilwa- 
ne esi bamba isitunzi somuntu. 
Kwa ku njalo ke nasemakaoseni, 
izintombi zimbili, enye kweyen- 

92 

tries ? 


As regards the boy recollecting 
the pool, and no longer eating any 
food, there is an account about a 
notion of this kind. It is said 
there is a beast in the water which 
can seize the shadow of a man ; 
when he looks into the water it 
takes his shadow ; the man no 
longer wishes to turn back, but 
has a great wish to enter the pool ; 
it seems to him that there is not 
death in the water ; it is as if he 
was going to real happiness where 
there is no harm ; and he dies 
through going into the pool, being 
eaten by the beast, which was not 
seen at first, but is seen when it 
catches hold of him ; and so it is 
said, " Forsooth it has taken his 
shadow ; he no longer sees ; his 
eyes are dark ; he no longer sees 
any thing ; it is that which causes 
him to be as he is." This is the 
tale which I hear people telL 

And men are forbidden to lean 
over and look into a dark pool, it 
being feared lest their shadow 
should be taken away. 

Among the Amakccosa there is 
a tale like this which states that a 
beast seizes the shadow of a 
man. So it was then among the 
Amakrosa, two damsels, one was 


Have these tales any connection with the Tortoise-myths of other coun- 
See Tylor's Early History of Mankind , pp. 332 -336. 


ISITWALANGCENGCE. 


343 


kosi, za lunguza esizibeni. Za 
donseka, za ngena kona ; ku nga 
ti zi biziwe. Kwa Matshwa um- 
kosi enkosini ; inkosi ya putuma 
kona nezinkomo ukuya 'uMenga 
umntwana wayo. Kwa fakwa ezi 
nombala nezibomvu nezimMope. 
Kga, a sa m yeka, kwa za kwa 
fakwa izinkabi ezimbili zimnyama, 
zi 'nsizwa ; sa m yeka, sa d/da 
zona ; wa kitshwa. Emva kwa- 
loku ka banga e sa ba njengoku- 
kyala; wa penduka isipukupuku 
nje esi nga sa k^ondi 'luto. Ku 
tshiwo njalo indaba yakona. Ko- 
dwa eningi i laAlekile. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


the daughter of a chief, looked 
into a pool. They were drawn, 
and went into it ; it was as though 
they were called. The alarm was 
given to the chief; he hastened 
thither with cattle to redeem his 
child. They cast in spotted cattle, 
and red, and white. But the 
beast did not let her go, until they 
cast in two black, hornless oxen ; 
then it left her and ate them ; and 
she was taken out. After that she 
was no longer as she was before ; 
she became an idiot, no longer 
understanding any thing. Such 
then is the tale among the Ama- 
k^eosa. But much of it is lost. 


fabulous animals. 


The following account of fabulous animals, — which bear a strong re- 
semblance to the ' domestic and other sprites of Northern Nursery 
Tales, — the Fables, &c., are introduced here in order to give the 
Header a more general idea of the native mind, as it may be a year 
or more before we shall be able to enter on the Second Volume of the 
Nursery Tales, much of the materials for which is already collected, 
and which is quite as striking, if not more so, than any yet published. 


ISITWALANGCENGCE. 


The Isitwalangcengce described. 


Ku kona indaba e si i zwa ngaba- 
dala ; ba ti, kwa ku kona isilwane 
esi tiwa Isitwalangcengce, si fana 
nempisi; kepa ikanjana laso lisi- 
devezana, libanzana ; si twala 
izinto zonke, ikanda laso li ik^oma 
lokutwala. Ku ti uma izwe H file, 
a si be si sa Alala endMe, si /Jala 
eduze nomuzi njalo. IndMebe 


There is a tale which we hear 
from the ancients ; they say, there 
used to be an animal called the 
Isitwalangcengce ; 93 it was like an 
hyena ; but its little head was 
rather spread out, and broad ish ; 
it carried all things, its head being 
a basket for carrying. If there 
was a famine it no longer lived in 
the open country, but remained 
constantly near a village. Its ear 


93 Basket -bearer. 


T T 


344 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


yaso ibukali ngalapa ku /datshwe 
inkomo ; ngokuba ngomkuba wa- 
bantu abamnyama, uma omunye e 
/dabile, u kumbula abangane bake 
bonke ngoku ba pa inyama; kakulu 
owesifazana. Uma inyama se i 
d/diwe yezitebe, ya pela, ku sale 
eyasend/dini, owesifazana a zinge e 
y a/dukanisa, e kumbula abangane 
bake, e ku ti nabo uma be i pete 
ba m kumbule ; ngokuba ku tiwa, 
" Imikombe i y' enanana ; " 95 nga- 
loko ke a zinge e ba vezela ama- 
k^ata abesifazana, e tuma aba- 
ntwana. Isitwalangcengce si Alala 
ematameni ezind/du, ekcaleni lom- 
nyango, ukuze ku ti lapa umutwa- 
na e ti u ya ngena, si be se si m 
tata kanye nenyama leyo, si m 
ponsa ekanda ; u ya kala se si 
gijima naye. Ku tiwa, a si mu 
d/di umuntu, si d/da ubukcopo 
bodwa ; si ye naye edwaleni, si m 
etula kona, si tshaye ikanda, si 
kote ubukcopo, si skive isidumbu. 


was sharp in the direction where a 
bullock was slaughtered ; for ac- 
cording to the custom of black 
men, if one has slaughtered, he 
remembers all his friends for the 
purpose of giving them meat ; 
especially the women. When the 
meat of the mats has been all 
eaten, and the meat of the houses 94 
remains, a woman customarily 
divides it, remembering her friends, 
that they too when they have meat 
may remember her ; for it is 
said, " Meat-baskets mutually ex- 
change;" therefore she makes a ha- 
bit of bringing out for the women 
pieces of meat, which she sends by 
the children. The Isitwalangcengce 
remains at the sides of the houses, 
at the side of the doorway, that 
when a child is going in, it may 
lay hold of him together with the 
meat, and throw him on its head ; 
the child cries when the Isitwa- 
langcengce is already running away 
with him. It is said it does not 
eat a man, but only his brains ; it 
goes with him to a rock, and 
throws him down there, and 
knocks his head, and licks up the 
brain, leaving the body. 


The Isitwalangcengce outwitted. 


Ngaloko ke sa vusa umuntu e 
lele, sa m tata, sa m faka ekanda, 
sa puma naye lowo 'muntu, sa 
hamba. Wa buza lowo 'muntu, 
wa ti, " Si ya ngapi na ?" Sa ti, 
" Si ya ngeyamadwala ind/dela," 
ngokukumbula lapo ku kona inda- 


So then it awoke a man who 
was asleep, and took him, and put 
him on its head, and went out 
with the man, and departed. The 
man enquired, saying, " Where 
are we going ? " It replied, "We 
are going by the path of rocks," 
remembering where there was a 


94 The meat is distinguished as, Eyezoso , the meat of the roasting ; that is, 
the pieces cut off and roasted on tlie day the bullock is killed ; Eyezitebe, the 
meat of the mats, that which is boiled and brought out on mats the second 
day ; and Eyezindhlu or Eyasendhlmi, the meat of the houses, that which is set 
aside for the use of the village. 

95 This is a proverbial saying, equivalent to "Love begets love," or " Kind- 
ness begets kindness." Those who send meat to their neighbours, when they 
have slaughtered a bullock, have meat sent to them when their neighbours 
slaughter. So, " Imikombe a i pambane," — Let our meat-baskets cross each 
other, — is equivalent to " Let us be on terms of good fellowship." 


ISITWALANGCENGCE. 


345 


wo yokubulala ikanda. Ba hamba 
ke, ba za ba fika eAlanzeni, lapa 
ku kona imiti. Sa hamba si dAlu- 
la naye ngapansi kwemiti ; 'apule 
amagaba emiti, e wa beka ekgo- 
meni lelo, 'enzela ukuze ku ng' e- 
zwakali ubulula, uma e se pumile. 
A za a ba maningi amaAlamvu 
emiti ; wa wa sliiya ngapansi, wa 
Alala pezu kwawo. Ngaloko ke sa 
hamba si sindwa ; sa dAl u la em- 
tini ; w' elula izand/da, wa bamba 
umuti ; sa d Alula sa ya edwaleni. 
W' eAla masinyane, wa gijima wa 
ya ekaya. Sa lika, sa tulula edwa- 
leni ; a sa bona 'muntu, ukupela 
amaAlamvu lawo wodwa. Sa bu- 
yela ekaya, si ya 'ufuna lowo 
'muntu. 


Many escape l 

Wa i dumisa leyo 'ndaba, loku 
abantwana be be pela. Umntwa- 
na a biz we kwenye indAlu, ku 
tiwe, "We, nobani ! " A sabele. 
Si be se si gijima pambili, si ya 
lapo e bizwa kona, se si m amu- 
kela, se si dAlula naye. Ku ya 
bizwa ; se ku tiwa, " Kade e pu- 
mile lapa." A pike lowo o m 
bizayo, a ti, " Ka fikanga lapa." 
Kanti u tetwe Isitwalangcengce. 
Lowo 'muntu wa veza ikeebo lo- 
kuba izindAlela a zi be mbili ; a i 
nga bi nye ; " Loku sona Isi- 
twalangcengce si tanda eyamadwa- 
la, kepa mina nga sinda ngendAlela 
yeAlanze." Ngaloko ke lelo 'kcebo 
la siza kakulu leso 'sizwe. Noma 
umntwana si m bambile, si buze si 
ti, " U ti a si ye nga i pi ind/dela 


^ Nobani means So-and-so, a 


place for breaking the head. So 
they went until they came to a 
bushy country, where there were 
trees. It passed with him under 
the trees ; and the man broke off 
some branches of the trees, and put 
them in the basket, doing so in 
order that the lightness may not 
be noticed if he got out. At 
length there were many branches ; 
he put them at the bottom, and 
sat on the top of them. Thus it 
went with a heavy weight ; it 
passed by a tree ; he stretched out 
his hand, and caught hold of the 
tree ; it passed on towards the 
rock. He got down directly and 
ran home. The Isitwalangcengce 
came, and emptied the basket on 
the rock ; it saw no man, but 
only the branches. It went back 
to the house, to find the man. 

y a stratagem. 

The man reported the matter, 
for the children were coming to an 
end. A child may be called from 
one house, it being said, "W ey, 
So-and-so ! " 96 The child attended. 
And the Isitwalangcengce ran for- 
ward to the place where she was 
called, and caught her, and went 
off with her. The people call her, 
and it is now said, " She went out 
from here a long time ago." The 
one who called her says, " She did 
not come here." In fact she has 
been taken by the Isitwalangce- 
ngce. That man devised the plan 
of having two ways, and not one 
only ; he said, " Since the Isitwa- 
langcengce prefers the path of 
rocks, but," said he, " I escaped by 
the busli-path." So that plan was 
of great assistance to that tribe. 
And if the Isitwalangcengce caught 
a child, and asked it, " Which 
way do you say we shall go ? " it 

!. Bani, So-and-so, a male. 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


34G 


na ? " a ti, " O, nkosi, indAlela 
enAle eyc/danze," 'enzela ukuze 
endaweni yake a beke amaAlamvu, 
a goduke yena ; si hambe ngoku- 
jabula, si ti si za 'kusuta ubukco- 
po ; si tulule ama^lamviL Kwa 
za kwa ba inkgwaba yama/damvu 
edwaleni ; abantu ba goduke. 


Lesi 'sitwalangcengce indaba e 
insumansumane, indaba endala. 
Manje se ku tuliswa ngayo aba- 
ntwana uma be kala, ngokuti, " U 
za 'kutatwa Isitwalangcengce." 
Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


answered, " O, sir, the good way 
is that of the bush," saying thus 
in order that it might put branches 
in its place and return home, and 
the Isitwalangcengce go on re- 
joicing, thinking it is about to get 
a fill of brains ; but it pours out 
branches only. At length there 
was a great heap of branches on 
the rock ; and the man went 
home. 

The Isitwalangcengce is a fabu- 
lous account, an old tale. Now 
children are silenced by it when 
they cry, by saying, "You will be 
carried off by the Isitwalangce- 


INDABA KADHLOKWENI. 
(the history of udhlokweni.) 


Kwa ti uba ku 41we kwa fika 
impisi, ya m tabata Ud/dokweni, 
inkosikazi yornuzi omkulu ; ya m 
twala, ya hamba naye; ya fika 
e/datini, ya ti, " D/dokweni, si za 
'kuhamba nga i pi ind/dela na ? " 
Wa ti, "A si hambe ngeyentuba 
ind/dela." Ba fika ke nayo impisi. 
Wa bambela emtini pezulu. Yam 
bona, ya ti, " D/dokweni, wa ha- 
mbela pezulu na? Woza." Ya 
buya ya m twala. Ya ti, " D/do- 
kweni, isililo sako si duma pansi. 
U be u ngakanani na, ukuba isi- 
lilo sako si be ngaka nje ! " Wa 
ti, " Ngi be ngi mkulu, ngi inkosi- 
kazi enkulu ; ngi be ngi ba pata 
ka/de bonke abantu bomuzi wami." 
Sa buya sa pinda futi, sa ti, 


When it was dark there came an 
hyena, 9S and took Udhlokweni, 
the chief wife of a great village ; 
it took her on its head and went 
away with her ; it came to a forest, 
and said, " Udhlokweni, by which 
path shall we go ? " She replied, 
" Let us go by the path of the 
narrow pass." So she and the 
hyena arrived. She lay hold of a 
tree overhead. It saw her, and 
said, " Udhlokweni, do you climb 
into the tree? Come along." So 
it carried her again. It said, 
" Udhlokweni, your funeral la- 
mentation makes the ground 
thunder. How great a person 
were you, that your funeral la- 
mentation should be so great ! " 
She said, " I was great, being the 
great queen ; and I used to treat 
kindly all the people of my vil- 
lage." Again it said, "This is 


97 So the American Indians silence their little ones, by " Hush ! the Naked 
Bear will get them. " ( Hiawatha , p. 559, and Note 55.) The Naked Bear, 
like the Isitwalangcengce, is a fabulous animal. In other countries they are 
frightened by the Wolf. 

88 Isitwalangcengce, or Isidawane. 


ISITSHAKAMANA. 


347 


" Isililo sako lesi. U b' u ngaka- 
nani na ! Abantu ba ya dabuka 
ukukala. U b' umkulu, dAlokwe- 
ni. Nami ngi y' ezwa ukuti u 
b' umkulu. U b' u ba lungisa 
abantu." Sa pinda futi njalo, sa 
ti, "Se ku kala nabantwanamanje 
ke." Wa ti, " Yebo, abantwana 
ngi be ngi ba tanda kakulu bonke ; 
na onina ngi be ng 5 aba izinto, ngi 
ba pa, na onina na oyise ; ngi be 
ngi nga buki 'luto ; zonke izinto 
ngi be ng' epana nje." Sa ti, 
" Yebo, d/dokweni, nami ngi y' e- 
zwa ukuba ba ya dabuka abantu 
ngawe. Kodwa mina se ngi ku 
tabete njalo kubo abantu labo bo- 
muziwako." Wa bambela emtini 
futi, w' enyuka; sa hamba sodwa 
ke Isidawane ; sa fika emfuleni, sa 
zila/da, sa kala sa ti, " Maye, dAlo- 
kweni ! Kazi u ye ngapi na? Nga 
zibulala, nga ti, ngi la/da Ud/do- 
kweni." Kanti Ud/dokweni u se 
balekile ; u se buyele kubantu 
bake aba m kalelako. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


your funeral lamentation. How 
great a person were you ! The 
people are distressed by your 
funeral lamentation. You were 
great, Udhlokweni. I perceive 
you were great. You used to 
order the people well." Again it 
said, " Now the children are cry- 
ing." She said, "Yes, I used to 
love the children much ; and I 
gave the women many things, both 
the women and the men ; I re- 
garded nothing; I used to give 
them every thing." It said, " Yes, 
Udhlokweni, I too perceive that 
the people are grieved for you. 
But I have now taken you from 
the people of your village for 
ever." Again she caught hold of 
a tree, and climbed up. The Isi- 
twalangcen gee went on alone ; it 
came to the river, and threw itself 
down, and cried, saying, "Woe is 
me, Udhlokweni ! I wonder 
where you are gone. I have killed 
myself, thinking I was throwing 
down Udhlokweni." But in fact 
Udhlokweni had fled, and had 
already returned to her people, 
who were mourning for her. 


ISITSHAKAMANA. 


Kwa ti indoda ya tata umsundu, 
ya hamba ke ya ya 'kutiya izin- 
/danzi elutukela, in.ra ku sa busa 
Usenzangakona ; ya bamb' isil wa- 
ne, Isitshakamana ; sa teta sa ti, 
" Mntakabani, kabani, kabani," sa 
k^uba njalo amabizo aoyise-mkulu 
kwa za kwa ba eshumini amabizo, 
a nga w' aziyo naye. Sa ti, " U 
ng' enze 'lunya lwani, uku ngi 


It happened that a man took a 
worm, and went to catch fish in 
the Tukela, at the time when Use- 
nzangakona was king ; he caught 
an animal, the Isitshakamana ; it 
spoke, saying, " Child of So-and- 
so, of So-and-so, of So-and-so." 
It went on thus repeating the 
names of his grandfathers, until it 
had mentioned names up to ten, 
names which he did not himself 
know. It said, " Why have you 
treated me so unmercifully a£ to 


348 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


kipa esizibeni, ngokuba mina a ngi 
pumi esizibeni ? ngi Alale esizibeni 
njalo ; ngi ya 1' esaba ilanga." 
Kwa Alangan' ameAlo ake nawaso, 
wa baleka ke wa y' ekaya, wa ti, 
"Ngi zibekele ni; ngi fi/de ni ; 
ngi bone 'lukulu ; ngi bone isil wa- 
ne lapa be ngi ye 'kutiya izinAla- 
nzi ; ameAlo aso a kimi lapa nje ; 
ngokuba ameAlo aso a 'ndawo nye 
nezimpumulo nendAlebe nomlomo. 
Kepa si ya ngi dAla ke noma ngi 
lapa nje ; ku nga ti si kwimi lapa 
nje." Kwa vela indoda, ya ti, 
"Ngi za ngi ni tshela, ngi ti, * Ni 
ya 'uze ni kipe Isitshakamana. , I 
so ke njalo leso o si kipile namu- 
7da, es' azi abantu abadala bonke." 
Wa fakwa ke embizeni, wa zitshe- 
kelwa. Wa ti, " Ngi kipe ni, na 
manje si sa ngi bhekile." Wa 
kitshwa. Wa ti, "Ngi fulele ni 
ngengubo zonke zomuzi." Wa ti, 
"Ngi kipe ni, si sa ngi bhekile. 
Ngi se ni emgodini wamabele." 
Ba ti, " Umgodi u ya 'ku ku bu- 
lala ; u ya tshisa." Wa ti, " U 
mbulide ni, w oz' u pole." Ba u 
mbulula ke, wa pola. Ba m faka 
ke ingcozana. Wa ti, "Ngi kipe 
ni ; si sa ngi bhekile futi, nokufu- 
dumala futi ku ya ngi bulala." 
Ba m kipa ke. Wa puma, wa ti, 
"Ngi se ni end/dini." Wa fika 
ke endAlini. Wa fa ke ngako loko 
ngokubona kwake Isitshakamana. 
Wa ti, "Ngi dabuk' uvalo, isilwa- 
ne si ngi biza ngobaba, na ngoba- 
ba-mkulu, na ngobaba-mkulu wa- 
obaba-mkulu ; si kged' abantu 
bonke nezizukulwane nezi ng' azi- 
wa na ubaba na ubaba-mkulu. 
Ngi fa ngaloko ke." Wa fa ke, 
wa pela. 


take me out of the pool? for I do not 
quit the pool; I live in it con- 
stantly ; I am afraid of the sun." 
His eyes met the eyes of the 
beast ; and he fled and ran home. 
He said, " Put a pot on my head ; 
hide me ; I have seen a great 
thing ; I have seen a beast, when 
I went to catch fish ; its eyes are 
still staring at me ; for its eyes and 
nostrils and ears and mouth are 
altogether in one place. But it is 
destroying me though I am here ; 
it is as though it was here with 
me." A man came and said, "I con- 
tinually am telling you, ' You will 
one day catch an Isitshakamana.' 
It is that animal which he has 
caught to-day, which knows the 
names of all the old people." He 
said, " Take the pot off my head ; 
even now it is still looking at me." 
They took off the pot. He said, 
" Cover me with all the blankets 
wdiich are in the village." He 
said, " Take them off from me ; it 
is still looking at me. Carry me 
to a corn-hole." They said, " The 
hole will kill you ; it is hot." He 
said, " Take away the stone, that 
it may cool." So they took away 
the stone, and it cooled. They 
put him in a little while. He 
said, " Take me out ; the beast is 
still looking at me even here ; and 
besides the heat is killing me." 
They took him out. When he 
came out he said, " Take me into 
the house." He came into the 
house. So he died on that account, 
because he saw the Isitshakamana. 
He said, " I am torn to pieces by 
fear, when the beast calls me by 
the name of my father, and of my 
grandfather and my grandfather's 
father ; mentioning all people 
without exception and generations 
which were unknown both to my 
father and grandfather. I die on 
that account." So he died. 


UTIKOLOSHE. 


349 


Kwa ku tiwa Isitshakamana si- 
mbulungwana ; si hamba ngesinge, 
si lingana nomntwana o nga ka 
hambi. 

Kwa ti emva kwaleyo 'ndaba 
ngalo 'nyaka kwa zalwa umntwana 
Ujobe, na manje u se kona lowo 
'mntwana owa zalwa ngalowo 
'nyaka, o tiwa U sitsliakamana. 
Nam/da nje u se nabazukulwane, 
u se mpunga manje. 

Umpondo kambule (Aaron). 


It was said that the Isitshaka- 
mana was small and round ; it 
walked on its buttocks, being the 
size of a child which does not yet 
walk. 

It happened after that, even in 
the same year, Ujobe had a child, 
and the child is still living which 
was born in that year, who is 
named Usitshakamana. He has 
grandchildren now, and is grey. 




UTIKOLOSHE. 


Uku mu zwa kwami ngi mu zwa 
ngabantu aba vela ebunguni ; ngo- 
kuba ngokwazulu a ku ko Utiko- 
loshe. Kepa kutina bakwazulu 
umuntu e se ngi ke nga mu zwa e 
ti u m bone ngame/do yena ; k' e- 
zwa ngandaba nje ; wa ti, isilwane, 
si lala esizibeni ; kepa ngasebu- 
nguni. Wa ti lowo umfo wetu, 
isilwanyazanyana si futshane, si 
noboya. U si bone eketweni ; ku 
ketwa, naso si keta. 

Kepa kakulu ku tiwa isilwane 
esi tanda abafazi ; ku tiwa kakulu 
abafazi bangalapa ba pinga naloko. 
Ku tiwa abafazi bonke bangakona 
ba vame ukuba ku ti lowo 'mfazi 
a be notikoloshe wake, indojeyana 
e ngapansi kwendoda yake. Ku 
ti urn a umfazi e ya 'uteza, a buye 
nayo e twele nezinkuni. Amadoda 
akona a ya zi bulala njalo lezi 'zi- 
lwanyana, e ku tiwa Otikoloshe. 
Ku tiwa abafazi bangalapa ba 
tanda Otikoloshe kunamadoda. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


I hear of this creature from men 
who come from the Amak#osa ; 
for among the Amazulu there is 
no Utikoloshe. But among us 
Amazulu I heard a man say that 
he had seen it with his eyes, and 
not heard a mere report ; he said 
it was an animal which lives in a 
pool ; but it is found among the 
Amakajosa. This brother of mine 
said, it was a short little animal, 
and hairy. You may see it at a 
dance ; when the people dance, it 
too dances. 

But especially it is said that the 
beast is fond of women ; it is said 
that the women of those parts co- 
habit with it. It is said that all 
the women of those parts have 
usually her own Utikoloshe, a 
little husband which is subject to 
her husband. And when a woman 
goes to fetch firewood, she returns 
with the Utikoloshe carrying the 
firewood. The men of those parts 
kill these animals which are called 
Otikoloshe. It is said the women 
love them more than their hus- 
bands." 


99 Shaw, in The Story of My Mission , p. 445, thus alludes to this monster : 
— " The people universally believe that aided by some mysterious and evil in- 
fluence, the nature of which no one can define or explain, bad persons may 
enter into league with wolves, baboons, jackals, and particularly with an ima- 
ginary amphibious creature, mostly abiding in the deep portions of the rivers, 
and called by the Border Kafirs Utikoloshe." 


350 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ukukqala kwami ukuba ngi ti 
nga ngi kgonda kaAle, ngi te nga 
senga inkomo zikazilinkomo. Uzi- 
ma, umkake, \va ngi nika iselwa 
elikulu, wa ti, "Wo li ta, li zale.7 
Kwa za ku ya sa kusasa, umuntu 
ka sa tslio ukuba li ko Y etiwa ; 
ku se se lize, li dAli we Utikoloshe. 


Umfana wake, Uirratshe, wa ti 
ukuba e kMeza kulezi 'nkomo, wa 
ngxama Utikoloshe, wa ti, "Ngi 
ya ba 'ungena enkomeni, ngi fika- 
ne kuze ! " W' apuka lo 'mfana 
owa e zi kMeza, e umuntu omu/tle. 
Izintambo zonke zokusenga ku 
fikwe zi la/dekile ; namatole a wa 
vulele ebusuku. a ncele. 


Omunye umfazi. Kwa ti ku 
yiwa emjadwini. Ba m biza aba- 
nye abafazi ; wa ti, " Ai. Ngi sa 
gcoba imbola." Ba se be hamba 
ke. Ba hamba, ba hamba, ba ti 
be send/deleni indoda kanti se i 
lalele, i solile. Wa puma ke um- 
fazi, wa fika ke Ugilikakgwa, wa 
tata isikaka seula, wa s' embata, 
wa ti, "Ngi ya 'ufika emjadwini 
ng' enze nje ke, mina mfana kagi- 
likak^wa wasemlanjeni," e linga- 
liisa ukudAlala a ya 'udAlala ngako 
e se fikile ukutshuluba ngokwama- 
k#osa. 


When I first began to look about 
me and to understand things well, 
I milked the cows of Uzilinkomo. 
Uzima, his wife, gave me a great 
calabash, and told me to fill it 
with milk. On the following 
morning no one would think that 
any milk had been poured into it ; 
it was always then empty, the 
milk having been eaten by the 
Utikoloshe. 

When his boy, Unscatshe, milk- 
ed the cows into his own mouth, 1 
the Utikoloshe was angry, and 
said, " I continually pass from 
cow to cow, and find no milk ! " 
And the boy, who was a beautiful 
fellow, who milked the cows into 
his own mouth, became deformed. 2 
And when they went to milk, all 
the milking cords were lost j and 
the Utikoloshe let out the calves 
by night, and they took all the 
milk. 


Another woman I knew. The 
people were going to a wedding 
dance. The other women called 
her ; she said, " No. I am still 
ornamenting myself with coloured 
earth." So they set out without 
her. They went on and on, and 
whilst they were in the way, the 
husband was laying wait, thinking 
he had a reason for complaining 
of his wife. So the wife quitted 
the house, and Ugilikak^wa 3 
came, and took a garment made of 
the skin of the oribe and put it 
on, saying, " I will come to the 
dance and do this, 4 I the child of 
Ugilikak^wa of the river," imi- 
tating the play which he would 
play when he got there, after the 
manner of the Amakxosa. 


1 It is a custom among native boys when herding cattle to steal the milk 
by milking into their own mouths. When this is suspected, the father will give 
them a calabash, saying, "Since you know how to milk, milk into the cala- 
bash ! " 

2 Lit., Broke, — had spinal curvature. 

3 Utikoloshe. 

4 Imitating the native dance. 


UTIKOLOSHE. 


351 


Ya vuka ke indoda, ya m kaAlela 
pansi ngomkonto nomfazi bobabili. 
Ya ba lalisa 'ndawo nye endMe- 
leni ; y' esula umkonto igazi ; y' e- 
inuka ya ya emjadwini. Kwa ti 
nan, be buyayo ba bona ukuti, "A, 
kanti ubani lo u m bulele umka- 
ke." Ba ti, " Kanti u m bulele 
nje u be s' azi ukuba Ugilikakgwa 
u kekxeza. nomkake." 


Kwa ti umfazi e Umtshakazi 
wa ti, "Ngi y' aliwa." Wa ti 
omunye, " W' aliwa kanjani na ? " 
Wa ti, " Ngi y' aliwa, mnta kwe- 
tu." Wa ti, " Kga ; u nge ze 
w' aliwa." Wa ti, " U tsbo ukuba 
u ng' enze njani na 1 ?" Wa ti 
omunye, " A ke w enze ke." Wa 
mu pa imbola namafuta, wa ti ke, 
" Ngi ku pe nje, u z' u tambise ; u 
z' u vuke u peke inkobe zamabele 
amAlope ; se u zi pekile, ke u fune 
isitshana, u zi tele, u bambe ke ; u 
ya 'kuti u semfuleni u ti, ' Wa, 
gilikakgw — o ! ' " Wa puma ke 
XJ mak^utsha - zinduku - zomlambo ; 
wa k^ala ke umfazi kaloku ukuti, 
" Hau ! kanti, i le into. Betu ! " 
Wa baleka. Wa tsbo ke Ugili- 
kak^wa ukuti r " U nge ngi bize, u 
ngi bize u buye u bayeke. XJ be 
u ngi bizeya ni na V' 6 Wa baleka 
umfazi wa za wa fika ekaya. XJti- 
kolosbe wa ti ukubona ukuba u 
dilikelwa abantu, wa buyela esizi- 
beni. 


So tbe busband started up and 
dashed him to tbe ground, stabbing 
him with an assagai, and tbe wife 
as well. He placed them together 
in tbe path ; he wiped tbe blood 
from the assagai ; and went to tbe 
dance. And when the people 
were returning they saw and said, 
" Ah, so then that So-and-so has 
killed his wife. He has killed her 
forsooth because he knew that 
Ugilikakgwa cohabited with her." 

It happened that a woman 
whose name was XJmtshakazi said, 
" I am rejected by my husband." 
Another asked, " Why are you 
rejected 1 " She said, " I am re- 
jected, child of my people." She 
said, " No ; it is not possible for 
you to be rejected." She said, 
" Tell me how you can help me ? " 
The other said, "Just do so." She 
gave her coloured earth and fat, 
and said, "I give you this that 
you may supple yourself; and to- 
morrow morning boil some white 
amabele ; when you have boiled it, 
just take a little vessel, pour the 
corn into it, and go to the river ; 
when there you shall say, ' Wo, 
Ugilikakgw — o !' " Umak^utsha- 
zinduku-zomlambo 5 came out of 
the river; and now the woman 
began to say, " Hau ! forsooth it 
is that thing I have summoned. 
Our people ! " and ran away. 
So Ugilikak^wa said, " You can- 
not call me, and when you have 
called me run away. Why have 
you called me ?" The woman fled 
till she reached her home. When 
the Utikoloshe saw that he was 
pelted with stones by the people, 
he went back again to the pool. 


5 He who uses in dancing the rods (i. e. reeds) of the river. 

6 The Utikoloshe speaks the dialect of the AmakQwabe, clearly suggesting 
that these tales are not indigenous to the Amakxosa. 


u u 


352 


IZItfGANEKWANE. 


Kwa ti incloda i ngena enclAlini 
yayo ya Ala i pambana nesitunzana 
si puma. Ya za ya nga i ya ha- 
mbela kude. Umfazi wa Alangana 
ke nekekcce lake leli. Indoda ya 
buya ebusuku. Ya fika be lele 
'ndawo nye. Ya gwaza Utikolo- 
she ; ya shiya umfazi. Ya ti in- 
doda k umfazi, " Tata izitungu zo- 
tshani, u bope." Kwa lalwa ke. 
Kwa sa kusasa ya ti, " Tata ke, u 
twale." Wa tata ke, ya pelezela, 
wa ya kubo. Ba fika enkundAleni 
lapa amadoda e butene kona em- 
zini wako wabo, ya ti, " Yetula." 
W' etula. Ya ti, " Tukulula." 
Wa ngaba. Ya tata insutsha ; ya 
ti k^in k^in intambo ; ya penya. 
Ba ba sa ku ti gaga, ba ti, " A ! " 
Ba se be tata intonga, be nga sa 
kulumanga, ba keta inkomo zayo 
zonke, ba i nika. Ya buya nazo 
ke. 


Unoko Masila . 9 


A man one day when entering 
his hut just saw the small shadow 
of something pass out as he went 
in. At length he pretended that 
he was going to a distance. So 
his wife had the company of her 
sweetheart , 7 the Utikoloshe. The 
husband came back by night, and 
found them sleeping together. He 
killed the Utikoloshe ; but left the 
wife. He said to his wife, " Fetch 
some bundles of grass, and tie him 
up in it." They then lay down. 
In the morning he said to her, 
" Take that up and carry it." She 
took it up ; and he went with her 
to her people. When they came 
to the cattle-pen, where the men 
were assembled, in the village of 
her people, he said, " Put it down." 
She put it down. He said, " Un- 
tie it." She refused. He took an 
assagai ; and the cord was cut with 
a kin, kin ; 8 he unfolded it. 
They then looked over it, and 
said, " Ah ! " They then took a 
rod, without saying a word, and 
selected all his cattle , 10 and gave 
them back to him. Aud so he 
went home with them. 


+.».? 

THE ABATWA. 


Abatwa 11 abantu abafutshane ka- 
kulu kunabo bonke abafutshane ; 
ba hamba ngapansi kwotshani, ba 
lala ezidulini ; ba hamba ngenku- 
ngu ; ba senAla nezwe, lapa be 


The Abatwa are very much small- 
er people than all other small 
people ; they go under the grass, 
and sleep in anthills ; they go in 
the mist ; they live in the up- 


7 The word here used is only applied to improper intercourse between peo- 
ple one or both of whom are married — Iltekze, Ikekicezakazi. 

8 The cord used would be dry hide ; the ' ' kin, kin, " is intended to imitate 
the sound which is occasioned by cutting the hide. 

9 This man is of the tribe of Amangwane. He has lived with the Ama- 
k cosa, and hence many Krrosisms. 

10 Which he had paid as the woman's dowry. 

11 Abatwa is the name given to the Bushmen. But they are not Bushmen 
which are here described. But apparently pixies or some race much more di- 
minutive than the actual Bushmen. Yet the resemblance is sufficiently great 
to make it almost certain that we have a traditional description of the first 
intercourse between the Zulus and that people. I have not succeeded in getting 
any details about them. The singular is Umutwa. 


THE ABATWA. 


353 


/Jala kona emaweni ; a ba namuzi 
lapa u nga ti, " Nanku ke umuzi 
wabatwa." Umuzi wabo u lapa 
be bulele kona inyamazane ; ba i 
d/Je, ba i kyede, ba hambe. Ba 
pila ngaloko. 

Kepa ku ti uma umuntu e ha- 
mba a k^abuke e Alangana nomu- 
twa, Umutwa a buze ukuti, " U 
ngi bonabone pi na ? " Kepa kwa 
ti ngoku ng' azani kukgala naba- 
twa, umuntu wa kuluma isiminya, 
wa ti, " Ngi ku bonabone kona 
lapa." Ngaloko ke Umutwa a 
tukutele ngokuti u ya delelwa u 
lowo 'muntu ; a be se u ya m 
tshaya ngomkcibitshelo, a fe." 
Kwa za kwa bonwa ukuba ba 
tanda ukukuliswa; ba ya zonda 
ubuncinane babo. Ngaloko ke 
umuntu wa /dangana nabo, a m 
bingelele ngokuti, " Sa ku bona ! " 
A ti Umutwa, " U ngi bonabone 
pi na?" A ti umuntu, "Ngi ku 
bonabone ngi sa vela lapaya. U 
ya i bona leya 'ntaba ; ngi ku 
bonabone ngi kuyo ke." A tokoze 
ke Umutwa, a ti, " O, kanti ngi 
kulile." Ku be se ku njalo uku- 
bingelelwa kwabo. 


Ku tiwa uma Abatwa se be 
liamba, lapa be be Alezi kona uma 
se ku pelile inyamazane, ba kwela 
ehashini, ba k^alele entanveni ba 
ze ba fike esin^eni, be landelene. 
Uma be nga fumananga 'nyama- 
zane, ba dAla Iona. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


country in the rocks ; they have 
no village, of which you may say, 
"There is a village of Abatwa." 
Their village is where they kill 
game ; they consume the whole of 
it, and go away. That is their 
mode of life. 

But it happens if a man is on a 
journey, and comes suddenly on 
an Umutwa, the Umutwa asks, 
" Where did you see me ? " But 
at first through their want of in- 
tercourse with the Abatwa, a man 
spoke the truth, and said, " I saw 
you in this very place." There- 
fore the Umutwa was angry, 
through supposing himself to be 
despised by the man ; and shot 
him with his bow, and he died. 
Therefore it was seen that they 
like to be magnified ; and hate 
their littleness. So then when a 
man met with them, he saluted 
the one he met with, " I saw 
you ! " 12 The Umutwa said, 
" When did you see me ? " The 
man replied, " I saw you when I 
was just appearing yonder. You 
see yon mountain ; I saw you then, 
when I was on it." So the Umu- 
tw r a rejoiced, saying, " O, then, I 
have become great." Such, then, 
became the mode of saluting 
them. 

It is said, vdien Abatwa are on 
a journey, when the game is come 
to an end w r here they had lived, 
they mount on a horse, they be- 
ginning on the neck, till they 
reach the tail, sitting one behind 
the other. If they do not find 
any game, they eat the horse. 


12 The Zulu salutation is, " Sa ku bona," We saw you. Hence the play on 
the words. 


354 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ABATWA UKWESABEKA KWABO. 

(THE DREADFULNESS OF THE ABATWA.) 


B' esatshwa abantu ; a b' esabeki 
ngobukulu bemizimba, nokubona- 
kala ukuba ba amadoda ; ai, ubu- 
doda a bu bonakali, nobukulu a bu 
ko ; izintwana ezincinane ezi ha- 
mba pansi kwotshani. Kepa in- 
doda i hambe, i bheke pambili, 
ngokuti, Uma ku vela umuntu 
noma inyamazane, ngi ya 'ku ku 
bona loko." Kanti Umutwa u se 
kona lapa ngapansi kwotshani ; 
indoda i zwe se i Alatshwa umkci- 
bitshelo ; i bheke, i nga boni 'mu- 
ntu o u ponsayo. I loko ke oku 
kged' amandAla ; ngokuba umuntu 
u ya 'kufa e nga lwanga nendoda e 
lwa naye. Ngaloko ke izwe laba- 
twa li y' esabeka ; ngokuba a ba 
boni 'muntu a ba ya 'kulwa naye. 
Abatwa ba amazenze, ona e nga 
bonakali lapa e puma kona ; kepa 
a /dupe indoda, a i buse, a kwele 
pezu kwayo, i ze i putelwe ubu- 
tongo, i nge nakulala, i nga gculisi 
inAliziyo ; ngokuba izenze lincina- 
ne ; isandAla sendoda sikulu; ku 
sweleka ukuba si bambe into 
ezwakalayo. Ba njalo ke Aba- 
twa ; amandAl' abo njengamazenze 
a busa ngobusuku, nabo ba busa 
ngesikota, ngokuba si ya ba fiAla, 
ba nga bonakali. Nanko ke ama- 
ndAla Abatwa a b' aAlula abantu 
ngawo, ukukcatsha, be kcatshela 
abantu ; ba ba bone nganAlanye, 
bona be nga bonwa. 


They are dreaded by men ; they 
are not dreadful for the greatness 
of their bodies, nor for appearing 
to be men ; no, there is no appear- 
ance of manliness; and greatness 
there is none ; they are little 
things, which go under the grass. 
And a man goes looking in front 
of him, thinking, " If there come 
a man or a wild beast, I shall 
see." And, forsooth, an Umutwa 
is there under the grass ; and the 
man feels when he is already 
pierced by an arrow ; he looks, 
but does not see the man who shot 
it. It is this, then, that takes 
away the strength ; for they will 
die without seeing the man with 
whom they will fight. On that 
account, then, the country of the 
Abatwa is dreadful ; for men do 
not see the man with whom they 
are going to fight. The Abatwa 
are fleas, which are unseen whence 
they come ; yet they teaze a man ; 
they rule over him, they exalt 
themselves over him, until he is 
unable to sleep, being unable to 
lie down, and unable to quiet his 
heart ; for the flea is small ; the 
hand of a man is large ; it is 
necessary that it should lay hold 
of something which can be felt . 13 
Just so are the Abatwa ; their 
strength is like that of the fleas, 
which have the mastery in the 
night, and the Abatwa have the 
mastery through high grass, for it 
conceals them ; they are not seen. 
That then is the power with which 
the Abatwa conquer men, conceal- 
ment, they laying wait for men ; 
they see them for their part, but 
they are not seen. 


13 That is, a thing must be felt before the hand can lay hold of it. 


THE HYRAX. 


355 


Umkcibitshelo wabo a ba Alaba 
ngawo into noma umuntu, a u bu- 
lali wona ngokwawo ; u ya bulala 
ngoknba isi/doko somkonto wabo 
s' ekatwa ubuAlungu, uknze ku ti 
n sa ngena u veze igazi eliningi ; li 
gijime umzimba wonke, umuntu a 
fe masinyane. Kepa lobo 'buAlu- 
ngu babo, imvamo yabo i y' aziwa 
amapisi ezindAlovu. Nako ke 
ukwesabeka kwabatwa a b' esabe- 
ka ngako. 

Umpexgula Mb ax da. 


The bow with which they shoot 
beast or man, does not kill by 
itself alone ; it kills because the 
point of their arrow is smeared 
with poison, in order that as soon 
as it enters, it may cause much 
blood to flow ; blood runs from the 
whole body, and the man dies 
forthwith. But that poison of 
theirs, many kinds of it are known 
to hunters of the elephant. That 
then is the dreadfulness of the 
Abatwa, on account of which they 
are dreaded. 


FABLES. 

IMBILA YA SWELA TJMSILA NGOKUYALEZELA. 
(the hyrax wext without a tail because he sext for it.) 


Ku tiwa, imbila ya swela umsila 
ngokuyalezela ezinye. Ngokuba 
ngam/da kw abiwa imisila, la li 
buyisile izulu ; za puma ke ezinye 
ukuya 'utata imisila lapa i tatwa 
kona; y' a/duleka enye ukuba i 
hambe nazo, ya yaleza ezilwaneni 
zonke ezi nemisila, ya ti, " O, nina 
bakwiti, a no ngi patela owami 
umsila ; ngi koAlwe ukupuma em- 
godini, ngokuba izulu li ya na." 


Za buya ke ezinye nemisila ; 
leyo yona a i banga i sa ba namsila 
ngokwengena ukupuma, izulu li 
buyisile. Ya laAla konke okuMe 
ngomsila; ngokuba umsila u ya 
siza ekuzipungeni ; ngaloko ke 
imbila a i sa zipungi ngaluto. 


It is said, the hyrax went with- 
out a tail because he sent other 
animals for it. For on the day 
tails were distributed, the sky had 
become clouded ; other animals 
then went out to fetch their tails, 
to the place where they were given 
away ; but another, the hyrax, 
was prevented from going with 
them, and he exhorted all the ani- 
mals who have tails, saying, " O, 
my neighbours, do you bring back 
my tail for me, for I cannot go out 
of my hole, because it is raining." 
So the others returned with 
tails, but the hyrax himself never 
had a tail because he was disin- 
clined to go out in the rain. He 
lost all advantages of a tail ; for a 
tail is useful for driving away 
flies ; the hyrax then has nothing 
to brush them off with. 


356 


IZINGANEKWANF. 


Se ku izwi elikulu loko 'kulibala 
kwembila kubantu abamnyama ; 
ba kuluma ngaloko 'kutsho kwem- 
bila, ku tiwa kwaba nga zikatazi 
ngaloko oku tandwayo abanye, 
naba tshoyo kwabanye, ku tiwa, 
" Bani, a w azi ukuba loko 'kutsho 
kwako kwokuti, 1 A no ngi patela,' 
— a w azi na ukuba umuntu ka 
patelwa omunye, uma into leyo i 
lingene abakona 1 0 ! imbila ya 

swela umsila ngokuyalezela. Na- 
we, musa ukwenza njengembila ; 
ku yi 'kuzuza 'luto ngokuyalezela ; 
zihambele ngokwako." 


I njalo ke indaba yembila. A 
i kulumanga yona ngomlomo, 
ukuti, "A no ngi patela;" kwa 
vela izwi kodwa ngokuba izilwane 
zi nemisila, kepa yona a i namsila ; 
kwa nga ya swela umsila ngoku- 
yaleza, na ngokuba izulu imbila i 
ya 1' esaba uma li buyisile; a i 
pumi emgodini uma li ng' enzi izi- 
kau zokusa. 

I njalo ke indaba yembila. Ya 
k^ondwa abantu ab' engenayo 
ukusebenza ngamAla izulu li libi ; 
ba kcela ukupatelwa abanye. Ku 
tshiwo njalo ke ukupendulwa ku- 
muntu o ti, "Wo ngi patela," u 
ti, oku tshiwo kuye ukwelandula 
kwake, e landula ngokuti, "Im- 
bila ya swela umsila ngokuyalezela. 
Bani, musa ukutsho njalo." A 
hambe ke lowo o kcelwayo, 'enzela 
ukuze ku ti noma e nga m patela- 
nga, a nga m buzi kakulu, ukuti, 
" Ku ngani pela ukuba u nga ngi 
pateli, loku ngi ku yalezile na ? " 
A m pendule ngembila leyo. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


That loitering of the hyrax is 
now a great word among black 
men ; they use the words of the 
hyrax, and say to those who do 
not trouble themselves about that 
which others like, and who tell 
others [to act for them], " So-and- 
so, do you not know that that say- 
ing of yours, ' Do you bring it for 
me,' — do you not know that an- 
other does not bring a man any 
thing, when there is only enough 
for those present 1 O ! the hyrax 
went without a tail because he 
sent for it. And you, do not act 
as the hyrax ; you will not get any 
thing by asking others ; go for 
yourself." 

Such then is the tale of the 
hyrax. He did not actually speak 
with his mouth, saying, " Do you 
bring it for me ; " but the word 
arose because other animals have 
tails, but the hyrax has none ; and 
it was as though the hyrax went 
without a tail because he sent for 
it ; and because he is afraid of a 
cloudy sky, and does not go out if 
there are not gleams of sunshine. 

Such then is the tale of the 
hyrax. It was understood by 
those who were disinclined to 
work when it is foul weather ; 
they asked others to bring for 
them. So it is said in answer to 
a man who says, " O, bring for 
me," one says when he refuses 
him, " The hyrax went without a 
tail because he sent for it. So- 
and-so, do not ask me to fetch for 
you." So he who asks goes away. 
He acts thus that when he returns 
without it he may not ask many 
questions, saying, "How is it then 
that you have not brought it for 
me, since I asked you to do so ? " 
He answers him by the hyrax. 14 


14 Other people have other fables to account for the tailless condition of 
certain animals ; but none of them are equal in point to this Zulu myth of the 
Hyrax. 

In the Norse tales the Bear, at the instigation of the Fox, fishes with his 


THE HYENA AND THE MOON. 


357 


IMPISI NENYANGA. 

(the HYENA AND THE MOON.) 


Kwa ti ngolunye usuku impisi ya 
fumana itambo ; ya li bamba, ya 
li pata ngomlomo. Lokupela in- 
yanga i purnile unyezi omu/de, 
amanzi 'emi, ya li laAla itambo, i 
bona inyanga emanzini, ya tabata 
inyanga, i ti inyama emAlope ; ya 
tshona nekanda, a ya fumana 
'luto ; kwa dungeka amanzi ; ya 
buyola emnva, ya tula ; a kcweba 
amanzi, ya gxuma ya bamba, i ti i 
bamba inyanga, i ti inyama, i bona 
emanzini ; ya bamba amanzi ; a 
puma amanzi, a dungeka ; ya bu- 
yela emuva. 


Enye impisi ya fika, ya li tata 
itambo lelo, ya i shiya. Kwa za 
kwa sa, inyanga ya nyamalala ngo- 
kukanya. Y' a/duleka impisi leyo. 
Ya buyela ngolunye usuliu, kwa 
za kwa vutwa lapo a i bambanga 
'luto. 


Ngaloko ke leyo 'mpisi ya Ale- 
kwa kakulu, uma ku bonwa i 
zinge i gijimela emanzini, i bambe 
amanzi, a vuze, i pume-ze. Nga- 


It happened once on a time that 
an hyena found a bone ; he took it 
up, and carried it in his mouth. 
Since then the moon was shining 
with a beautiful light, the water 
being still, he threw down the 
bone when he saw the moon in the 
water, and caught at the moon, 
thinking it to be fat meat ; he 
sank head over ears, and got 
nothing ; the water was disturbed ; 
he returned to the bank, and was 
still ; the water became clear ; he 
made a spring, and tried to lay 
hold, thinking he was laying hold 
of the moon, thinking it flesh, 
when he saw it in the water ; he 
caught hold of the water ; tlie 
water ran out of his mouth, and 
became muddy ; he went back to 
the bank. 

Another hyena came and took 
the bone, and left the other still 
there. At length the morning 
arrived, and the moon became dull 
through the daylight. The hyena 
was worsted. He returned on 
another day, until the place, where 
he could get nothing, was trampled 
bare. 

Therefore that hyena was much 
laughed at, when it was seen that 
he ran continually into the water, 
and caught hold of the water, and 
the water ran out of his mouth, 
and he went out without any 


tail through a hole in the ice, till it is frozen ; when he attempts to escape he 
loses his tail. — The story from Bornu represents the Weasel as fastening a stick 
to the tail of the Hyena, instead of the meat which was to have been fastened 
on as a bait for fishing ; and the Hyena loses his tail by pulling. — In others, 
with less point, the Wolf loses his tail either by fishing with it at the instiga- 
tion of the Fox, or by covering the reflection of the moon on the ice, winch 
Reynard persuades him is a cheese. — Whereas in Central America the Stag and 
Rabbit had their tails pulled off by the princes Hunahpu and Xbalanque. 
( Tylor . Op. cit. p. 355 .) 


358 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


loko ke ku tiwa, uma ku laulelwa 
umuntu, ku tiwe, " Bani, u nje- 
ngempisi ; yona ya IaAla itambo, 
ya bamba ize, ngokubona inyanga 
ju semanzini." 

XJatPONDO KAJIBULE (AARON). 


thing. Therefore when a man is 
laughed at, it is said, " So-and-so, 
you are like the hyena ; it threw 
away the bone, and caught at 
nothing, because it saw the moon 
in the water ." 15 


I ZI M F E N E NENGWE. 
(the baboons and the leopard.) 


Ku tiwa imfene ya Alangana nen- 
gwe eAlatini ; ya biza ezinye izim- 
fene, ukuba zi zoku i libazisa in- 
gwe, ukuze zi i bulale i lige nasu. 

Za fika ke kuyo, za i kcoba. 
Kepa kuk^ala ingwe y' ekaswaya, 
ngokuba ku ya zondwana ingwe 
nezimfene, ngokuba ingwe i bulala 
amazinyane ezimfene. Kgaloko 
ke izimfene zi ya Alupeka enda- 
weni lapa ku kona ingwe ; a zi 
liambi nganye, zi hamba nganingi. 
Kgaloko ke ingwe y' ekarwaya, ya 
bona ukuba i za 'kufa. Kepa 
izimfene za i pulula ; ngaloko ke 
ya za ya tamba, ya jwayela ngo- 
kuzwa izandAla zezimfene zi nga 
k^inisi ; y' ezwa ukupenya, ya 
kw azi, ngokuba nazo zi ya kcoba- 
na ; ngaloko ke ya tamba, ya 
bekela. 


Za i penya ke zi funa izintwala, 
za za za i ti nghu, a ya b' i sa bo- 
nakala ; ezinye z' emba unigodi 
dmude, ngokuba umsila wayo in- 
gwe mude ) z' enza loko ngokuba 


It is said a babopn fell in with a 
leopard in the forest ; he called 
some other baboons. He came 
and'bamboozled the leopard, that 
they might kill him, when he was 
left without resource. 

So thby came to him, and caught 
and killed the vermin which were 
on him. But at first the leopard was 
on his guard, for the leopard and 
baboons hate each other, for the 
leopard kills the young baboons. 
Therefore baboons are troubled in 
a place where there is a leopard ; 
they do not go alone there, they 
go in company. The leopard then 
was on his guard ; and he saw that 
he was about to die. But the 
baboons stroked him ; therefore he 
at length became gentle and ac- 
customed to them, because he felt 
that their hands were not pressed 
hard on him ; he felt the separa- 
tion of his hair ; he understood it, 
for leopards also kill vermin one for 
another ; therefore he was gentle, 
and lay quiet. 

So they turned aside the hair, 
hunting for vermin, until they sur- 
rounded him, and he could no 
longet be seen ; some dug a long 16 
hole, for the leopard's tail is long ; 
they did that because they knew 
The Dog and the Shadow," or to " The 


15 This is precisely similar to our 
Hibernian Moon-rakers." 

1G The same word means deep and long. 


THE MAN AND THE BREAD. 


359 


z' azi ukuti, " Ingwe ilula kunati ; 
uma si ng' enzi ikcebo, i za 'ku si 
bulala." Za u kgeda ke umgodi 
lowo, za u faka ke umsila, za u 
g<7iba ke kakulu, zi a g^iba njalo 
se zi i pata kakulu ngoku i funa 
izintwala, ukuze i ng' ezwa ubu- 
/dungu bokuggitshwa. Ku t' uba 
zi k^ede uku u g^iba umsila, ezi- 
nye za ti kwezinye, " Hamba ni, 
ni gaule izagitsha manje." Za zi 
gaula ke, za buya nazo ; zi lingerie 
zonke izimfene. Za kgala ke uku- 
tata izagitsha zazo, za i yeka uku i 
kcoba ; za i tshaya ; i ya kgala 
ukutukutela, i jama ; se zi i tsha- 
ya kakulu ; i se i zinge i bukuzeka, 
i nga se nakusuka, za za za i bu- 
lala, ya fa. Za i shiya. 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


that the leopard was more active 
than they, and if they did not de- 
vise something, he would kill them. 
So they finished the hole, and put 
the leopard's tail in it, and rammed 
the earth down tight around it ; 
they rammed it continually, at the 
same time handling him very 
much in searching for vermin, that 
he might not feel the pain of being 
rammed down. When they had 
made an end of ramming down the 
tail, some said to others, " Go and 
cut sticks now." So they cut 
them, and brought them ; they 
were sufficient for all the baboons. 
So they began to take their sticks, 
and left off catching vermin ; they 
beat him ; he began to be angry, 
staring about ; and they beat him 
excessively ; and he continually 
rolled on the ground, being no 
longer able to get up, until they 
killed him, and he died. So they 
left him . 17 


INDABA YOMUNTU OWA LAHLA ISINKWA ; WA 
PINDA WA SI FUNA, KA B' E SA SI TOLA. 

(the tale of a man who threw away some bread ; HE LOOKED 

FOR IT AGAIN, BUT NEVER FOUND IT.) 


Indaba yendoda eya i hamba i 
pete isinkwa ; i puma se i dAlile 


The tale of a man who was going 
on a journey carrying bread with 
him ; he set out, having already 


17 This fable bears a strong resemblance in meaning to that of the Boar and 
the Herdsman, one of the tales told by the " Seven wise men." 

There was a boar of unusual size and ferocity which was the terror of all 
who lived in the neighbourhood of the forest which he frequented. The cattle 
of a herdsman unfortunately wandered into this forest, and the herdsman, 
whilst searching for them, found a hawthorn tree, covered with ripe fruit ; he 
filled his pockets, and when about to proceed on his way, was alarmed by the 
boar. He climbed the tree, but the boar detected him by the scent of the fruit 
he had in his pockets. The man propitiated the beast not only by emptying his 
pockets, but also by plucking fruit from the tree, and casting it to his formida- 
ble enemy. The beast, being satisfied, lay down to rest ; " the artful herdsman 
now lowered himself so far as to reach with his fingers the back of the animal, 
which he began to scratch with such dexterity that the boar, who was hitherto 
unaccustomed to such luxury, closed his eyes, and abandoned himself to the 
most delicious slumbers ; at which instant the herdsman drew his long knife 
and pierced him to the heart." ( Ellis' $ Specimens, etc. Vol. III., p. 39.) 

v v 


300 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ekaya ; i ng' azi uknzilinganisela 
ngokutata isinkwa esi lingene 
ukuba i si kjede ; ya tata isinkwa 
esikulu ; kwa nga i ya 'u si k^eda. 
Kepa endAleleni ya d/da, ya za 
y' a/duleka. Ya koAlwa uma i za 
'ii s' enze njani na. A ku banga 
ko ukuti, " A ngi si pate ; kumbe 
ngapambili ku lanjiwe, ngi ya 'ku- 
dinga ukudAla ; kumbe ngi nga 
/dangana nomuntu e lambile." 
Konke loko a kwa ba ko. Kwa 
ti ngokwesuta kwayo, kwa fiAleka 
umkcamango wokulondoloza isi- 
nkwa leso ; ka tandanga ukuba a 
si pate, ngokuba wa se e suti ; wa 
bona kunye oku ya 'kwenza a ha- 
mbe kalula. Wa si laAla ngenza- 
nsi kwend/dela, wa dAlula ke e se 
lula. Kwa za kwa dAlula izinsuku 
e nga buyi ngaleyo 'ndAlela. Izim- 
puku za si tata, za si d/da, sa pela. 


Ku te uma ku fe izwe, li bulawa 
ind/dala, e hamba ngaleyo 'nd/dela, 
e hamb' e mba imiti, (ngokuba 
amabele e se pelile ; se ku d/diwa 
imiti,) ind/dela ya m kumbuza 
leso 'sinkwa. Wa si bona si se 
kona; unvaka wa ba njengoku- 
ngati usuku lwaizolo. Wa bizwa 
masinyane i leyo 'ndawo ngoku i 
bona nje, ukuti, "I yo le 'ndawo 
e nga la/da isinkwa kuyo." Wa 
fika kona ; wa bona lapa isinkwa 
sa wela kona ; wa ti, " Sa wela 
lapaya." Wa gijirna ukuya 'u si 
tola. Kepa ka si fumana. Wa 
k^ala ukubbekisisa esikoteni, lo- 
kupela kw enile ; wa funisisa ngo- 
kunga u za 'u/dangana naso, lapa 
e putaza ngezand/da ekweneni ; 
kwa za kwa d Alula isikati. Wa 


eaten at home ; and not knowing 
how to allowance himself by taking 
bread which was equal to his con- 
sumption, he took a large quantity 
of bread ; he thought he should 
eat it all. But by the way he ate, 
until he could eat no more. He 
could not tell what to do with it. 
He did not say to himself, " Let 
me carry it ; perhaps in front 
there is hunger, and I shall want 
food ; perhaps I may meet a man 
who is hungry." There was no 
such thought as that. But through 
being satisfied, the thought of 
taking care of that bread was 
hidden ; he did not wish to carry 
it, because he was then full ; he 
saw one thing only which would 
enable him to go easily. He 
threw the bread on the lower side 
of the path, and so went on no 
longer burdened. He did not 
return by that path for many days. 
Mice took the bread, and ate it all 
up. 

It came to pass when the land 
died, it being killed by famine, as 
he was going by that way, going 
and digging up roots, (for there 
was no corn left ; roots only were 
now eaten,) the path made him 
remember the bread. He saw it 
still there ; a year was as it were 
a day of yesterday. He was at 
once summoned by the place by 
merely seeing it, and said, " This 
is the very place where I threw 
away my bread." He arrived at 
the place ; he saw where the bread 
had fallen ; he said, " It fell 
yonder." He ran to find it. But 
he did not find it. He began to 
look earnestly in the long grass, 
for it was very thick ; he searched 
thinking he should fall in with it, 
as he was feeling with his hands in 
the thick grass ; until some time 
had elapsed. He rose up, and 


THE MAN AND THE BREAD. 


361 


sukuma, \va kcabanga, wa ti, 
" Hau ! Kwa buy a kw enza nja- 
ni ? Loku ngi ti, a ngi ka ko/dwa 
nje indawo e nga si ponsa kuyo. 
K^abo ; a i ko enye ; i yo le." 
Wa toba wa funa. Lokupela u 
funa njalo, namandAla u se wa 
tolile, u se k^inile ngokwazi ukuti, 
Noma ngi lambile nje, ku za 'u- 
pela ; ngi nga tola isinkwa sami." 
Wa za wa jamba, wa kupuka, wa 
buyela endAleleni, wa funa indawo 
lapa a kgala kona ukuma, wa ti, 
" Nga hamba konke lapa ngi nga 
ka si ponsi." Lokupela lapa a si 
ponsa kona, kwa ku kona isiduli ; 
wa bona ngaso, wa ti, " E ! nga ti, 
uma ngi lapa, nga ti ! " Wa tsho 
e linganisa ngengalo ; i ya ya in- 
galo lapa a si yisa kona. U se 
gijima ngejubane, e landela ingalo. 
Wa fika, wa putaza masinyane ; 
ka z' a si tola. Wa buyela kona, 
wa ti, " Hau ! s' enza njani ? loku 
nga si ponsa lapa nje, ngi nga bo- 
nwa 'muntu, ngi ngedwa nje." 
Wa gijima. Wa za wa d/dulelwa 
isikati sokumba imiti ; wa buya- 
ze ; imiti a nga i inbanga. Wa 
buya e se pele amand/da, ngokuba 
e nga zuzanga leso 'sinkwa. 


Na manje u se kona lowo nga- 
lapa ngaselwandAle. Leyo 'ndaba 
wa i zeka se li tulile izwe, ind/dala 
i pelile. Kwa ba 'ligidigidi loko 
'kwenza kwake kubo bonke aba 
ku zwayo, be ti, " Bani, nembala 
ind/dala y enza umuntu a be 'me- 
h\o 'mnyaraa. Wa ka wa si bona 
ini, wena, isinkwa esi la/dwa ngo- 
munye unyaka, si tolwe ngomunye, 
si sa lungile 11 a ? " Wa ti, " Ma- 
doda, ind/dala a y azisi. Nga ngi 
ti ngi funa ka/de, ngi za 'u si tola. 


thought, saying, " Hau ! What 
happened after I threw away the 
bread 1 For I say, I do not yet 
forget the place where I threw it. 
No surely; there is no other; it 
is this very place." He stooped 
down and searched. For whilst 
he is thus seeking he has gained 
strength, and is now strong 
through knowing, to wit, " Though 
I am hungry, my hunger will end ; 
I may find my bread." At length 
he was confused, he went up again 
to the path, he found the place 
where he first began to stand, he 
said, " I passed over all this place 
before I threw it away." For 
where he threw it away, there was 
an ant-heap ; he saw by that, and 
said, " Ah ! when I was here, I 
did thus !" He said this, imitatiug 
with his arm ; the arm goes in the 
direction in which he threw the 
bread. And now he runs quickly, 
following the direction of the arm. 
He came to the place, and at once 
felt about ; he did not find the 
bread. He went back again, and 
said, " Hau ! what has become of 
it ? since I threw it exactly here ; 
for no man saw me, I being quite 
alone." He ran. At length the 
time for digging roots had passed 
away ; he went home without any 
thing ; he dug no roots. He now 
became faint again, because he had 
not found the bread. 

And that man is still living, 
yonder by the sea. The man told 
the tale when the country was at 
peace, and the famine at an end. 
It was a cause of laughter that 
conduct of his, to all who heard it, 
and they said, " So-and-so, sure 
enough famine makes a man dark- 
eyed. Hid you ever see bread, 
which was thrown away one year, 
found in another, still good to 
eat 'i " He said, " Sir3, famine 
does not make a man clever. I 
thought I was seeking wisely, and 


362 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


Ind/dala i ya kgeda ukuAlakanipa. 
Mina ngokulamba kwami nga ko- 
lwa impela ukuba ngi ya 'ku si 
fumana ; loku nga ngi ngedwa, ku 
nge ko umuntu. Kanti loko i 
kona kwa ngi bangela indAlala, 
nga za nga pons' ukufa." 

Umpengula Mbanda. 


should find it. Famine takes away 
wisdom. And for my part, through 
my hunger, I believed in truth 
that I should find it ; for I was 
alone, there being no man with 
me. But in fact that was the 
means of increasing my want, 
until I was nearly dead." 


SPEAKING ANIMALS. 

INDABA YEKWABABA. 
(the tale of a crow.) 


Kwa ti kwazulu ku Aleziwe ku 
buswa, ku ng' aziwa 'luto olu za 
'kwenzeka. Ngoluny' usuku ikwa- 
baba la biza umuntu wakwazulu, 
induna, ibizo lake Unongalaza, 
la ti, "We, nongalaza! We, 
nongalaza ! " Kwa lalelwa, kwa 
tiwa, "A ku bonakali 'muntu o 
bizayo, 'kupela ikwababa leliya." 
La ti, " Ni Alezi nje. Le 'nyanga 
a i 'kufa. Ni za 'ubulawa kwa- 
zulu ; uma ni nga hambi, ni za 
'jiufa ngayo le 'nyanga. Hamba 
nini nonke." Nembala ke a ba 
/dalanga. Umawa kajama, inkosi 
yalabo 'bantu, w' esuka, w' eza 
lapa esilungwini. Aba salayo ba 
bulawa. 

Umankofana Mbele. 


It happened that among the Zulus 
men were living in perfect pros- 
perity, not knowing what was 
about to happen. One day a crow 
called one of the Zulus, an officer, 
whose name was Unongalaza, and 
said, " Wey, Unongalaza! Wey, 
Unongalaza ! " The people lis- 
tened and said, "No one can be 
seen who is calling ; there is only 
that crow yonder." It said, "You 
are living securely. This moon 
will not die [without a change]. 
You will be killed in Zululand ; if 
you do not depart, you will be 
killed during this very month. 
Go away, all of you." And in 
truth they did not stay. Umawa , 18 
the daughter of Ujama, the chief 
of the people, set out, and came 
here to the English. Those who 
remained behind were killed. 


ENYE YEKWABABA FUTI. 

(another tale of a crow.) 

Kwa ti abafazi be babili be I There were two women in the 
senAle, be pumile, kwa fika I fields. A crow came and pitched 

18 That is, she and a part of the people. 


SPEAKING ANIMALS. 


363 


ikwababa, la Alala pezu kwomuti, 
b' ezwa li kala li ti, " Maye, maye, 
mnta kadade o nga zaliyo. Uma- 
kazi yena o ze 'enze njani na loku 
e nga zali nje na ? " B' esuka, ba 
baleka, ba y' ekaya. Ba fika, ba i 
zeka leyo 'ndaba. Kwa tiwa um- 
Alola. Lowo 'mfazi o nga zaliyo 
intombi kasipongo wakwadAla- 
nimi kona lapa emakuzeni. Emva 
kwaloku indoda yake ya gula ka- 
kulu. 

Uluhoho Madonda. 


on a tree, and they heard it crying 
and saying, "Woe, woe, child of 
my sister, who hast no children. 
What will she be able to do since 
she is childless ? " They started 
up and ran away. When they 
reached home they told the tale. 
The people said it was an omen. 
The woman who had no child was 
the daughter of Usipongo of 
Idhlanimi here among the Ama- 
kuza. After that her husband 
1 was very ill . 19 


INDABA YENJA EYA KQAMBA IGAMA. 

(the tale of a dog which made a song.) 


Kwa ku te 'nyakana kwa fa ilizwe 
ku lwa Umatiwane nompangazita, 
kwa krokozela amakuba ku linywa 
abantu ; ba bheka pezulu, a ti, 
" Ni bheka ni 1 I tina." Ya se i 
tsho ke inja esitshondweni, umuzi 
wenkosi, ya ti k<?a ngesin^e, ya ti, 


" MadAladAla ; a ni namhhau 
Ngomkelemba wame . 23 
Ngi vumele ni, baba wame, 
Ngomta kadAlakad/da yedwa 
kcatsha ." 25 

Abantu ba ti ngaloko 'kuAlabelela 
kwenja, ba ti, " Li file izwe." 

Lelo 'gam a la li igugu kakulu 
ezintombini, la li Alatshelelwa nge- 
zinyembezi. 

IInoko Masila. 


It happened long ago when the 
country was desolate, during the 
war between Umatiwane 20 and 
Umpangazita , 21 the hoes rattled as 
the people were digging ; they 
looked up, and the hoes said, 
" What are you looking at ? It is 
we." Then a dog sat down on his 
buttocks at Isitshondo, the king's 
town, and said, 

" Madhladhla ! 22 you have no pity 
For my treasure . 24 
Sing with me, my father, 

About the son of Ukadhlaka- 
dhla, his only son ! " 

The people said, on hearing that 
song of the dog, " The country is 
dead." 

This song was a very great 
favourite with the damsels, and 
used to be sung with tears. 


19 Comp, these tales with those given, p. 131 — 133. 

20 Umatiwane, a chief of the Amangwane. 

21 Umpangazita, a chief of the Amathlubi. 

22 Umadhladhla, the name of Ungalonkulu, the son of Ukadhlakatlhla, 
who was killed by the Amangwane during the war. Amadhladhla, his people. 

23 Wame for wami, or warn 1 — e , to prolong the word for the sake of the 
rhythm. 

24 The dog rebukes the people for not weeping for their dead chief. 

25 Yedwa kcatsha, (Zulu, kcoko, ) emphasizing yedwa, his only son, only in- 
deed. 


364 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


RIDDLES. 


l 


Kqanuela ni inkomo e nga lali 
pansi nakanye. Ku ti ngamAla i 
lalayo i be se i lele umlalela wa- 
fati ; a i sa yi 'kupinda i vuke. 
Ukulala kwayo ukufa. Inkomo e 
dumile kakulu, isengwakazi ; aba- 
ntwana bayo ba ya londeka i yo. 
I ba nye njalo kumniniyo, ka i 
sweli eyesibili, i yo yodwa 'kupela. 


Guess ye a cow which never lies 
down. When it lies down it lies 
down for ever ; it will never rise 
up again. Its lying down is death. 
It is a very celebrated cow, and 
one which gives much milk ; its 
children are preserved by it. The 
owner possesses only one ; he does 
not want another ; he only requires 
one. 


2 


K^andela ni upuzi; lu lunye, 
lu neminyombo eminingi ; kumbe 
amakulu ; u Alanze izinkulungwa- 
ne eziningi ngeminyombo yalo ; 
uma u i landa iminyombo yalo a 
ku ko lapa u nge fumane 'puzi ; u 
ya 'ku wa fumana amapuzi. Um- 
nyombo umunye a wa balwa ama- 
puzi awo ; u nge ze wa fa in d Ala- 
la ; u nga hamba u ka u dAla ; 
futi u nge pate umpako ngokwe- 
saba ukuti, " Ngi ya 'kudAla ni 
pambili na 1 " Kya ; u nga dAla 
u shiye, w azi ukuba loku ngi 
hamba ngomnyombo, ngi za 'ufu- 
mana elinye ngapambili njalo. 
Nembala ku njalo. Iminyombo 
yalo i kgede izwe lonke, kepa 
upuzi lunye olu veza leyo 'minyo- 
mbo eminingi. Ku ba i lowo a 
lande omunye, a li ke ipuzi, bonke 
ba ya ka eminyonjeni. 


Guess ye a pumpkin-plant ; it is 
single, and has many branches ; it 
may be hundreds ; it bears many 
thousand pumpkins on its branch- 
es ; if you follow the branches, 
you will find a pumpkin every 
where ; you will find pumpkins 
every where. You cannot count 
the pumpkins of one branch ; you 
can never die of famine ; you can 
go plucking and eating ; and you 
will not carry food for your jour- 
ney through being afraid that you 
will find no food where you are 
going. No ; you can eat and 
leave, knowing that by following 
the branches you will continually 
find another pumpkin in front ; 
and so it comes to pass. Its 
branches spread out over the whole 
country, but the plant is one, from 
which springs many branches. 
And each man pursues his own 
branch, and all pluck pumpkins 
from the branches. 


3 

K^andela ni inkomo e Alatshe- 1 Guess ye an ox which is slaugh- 
lwa 'zibayeni zibili. I tered in two cattle-pens. 


RIDDLES. 


3G5 


4 


Kgundela ni indoda e nga lali ; 
ku ze ku se i mi, i nga lele. 


Guess ye a man who does not 
lie down ; even when it is morning 
he is standing, he not having lain 
down. 


5 


K^andela ni indoda e nga zama- 
zami ; noma izulu li vunguza ka- 
kulu, i mi nje, i te pu/de ; umoya 
u wisa imiti nezind/du, kw enakale 
okuningi ; kepa yona ku njengo- 
kungati li kcwebile nje, a i zama- 
zami nakancinane. 


Guess ye a man who does not 
move ; although the wind blows 
furiously, he just stands erect ; the 
wind throws down trees and 
houses, and much injury is done ; 
but he is just as if the sky was 
perfectly calm, and does not move 
in the least. 


6 


K^andela ni amadoda amaningi 
'enze u/da ; a ya sina ijadu, a vu- 
nule ngamatshoba am/dope. 


Guess ye some men who are 
many and form a row ; they dance 
the wedding dance, adorned in 
white hip-dresses. 


7 


Iv^andela ni indoda e Alala ezi- 
teni ngemi/da yonke, lapa ku Ala- 
selwa njalonjalo ; kepa i ba nevuso 
ku nga puma impi, y azi ukuba 
konje namu/da ngi sekufeni ; a i 
naAlati lokubalekela. Ukusinda 
kwayo ukuba ku pele impi. I 
d/de nomfino, ngokuti, " Hau ! 
nga sinda namu/da ! Ngi be ngi 
ng' azi ukuba ngi za 'upuma em- 
pini." A i nabantwana, ngokuba 
y ake pakati kwezita, ya ti, 
" Kg-a ; ku/de ukuba ngi be nge- 
dwa, kona ko ti ku sa /datshwa 
umkosi, ngi be ngi lunga." 


Guess ye a man who lives in 
the midst of enemies every day, 
where raids are made without 
ceasing ; and he is alarmed when 
the army sets out, knowing that 
he is then in the midst of death ; 
he has no forest to which he can 
escape. He escapes only by the 
enemy retiring. He then eats- 
food, saying, " Ah ! escaped this 
time ! I did not think that I 
could escape from the midst of the 
army." He has no children, be- 
cause he lives in the midst of ene- 
mies, saying, " No ; it is well that 
I should live by myself, and then 
when an alarm is given, I may be 
ready to escape." 


8 


K^andela ni indoda e nga lali 
ebusuku ; i lala ekuseni, ku ze ku 
tshone ilanga; i vuke, i sebenze 


Guess ye a man who does not 
lie down at night ; he lies down in 
the morning until the sun sets ; he 


3GG 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


ngobusuku bonke ; a i sebenzi 
emini ; a i bonwa ukusebenza 
kwayo. 


Kgandela ni amadoda a hamba 
e ishumi ; uma ku kona eyomuvo, 
lawa 'madoda a ishumi a wa ha- 
mbi ; a ti, " Si nge hambe, loku 
ku kona um/dola." Ku ya manga- 
lwa kakulu a lawo 'madoda ; a 
libale ukuteta ikcala ngokuti, " Ku 
ngani ukuba si ve, loku kade si 
n g' evi na ? TJm/dola." A nga 
tandani naleyomuvo. 


then awakes, and works all night ; 
he does not work by day ; he is 
not seen when he works. 


Guess ye some men who are 
walking, being ten in number ; if 
there is one over the ten, these ten 
men do not go ; they say, " We 
cannot go, for here is a prodigy." 
These men wonder exceedingly ; 
they are slow in settling the dis- 
pute, saying, " How is it that our 
number is over ten, for formerly 
we did not exceed ten?" They 
have no love for the one over the 
ten. 


K^andela ni indoda e ku nga 
tandeki ukuba i Aleke kubantu, 
ngokuba i y' aziwa ukuti, uku/de- 
ka kwayo kubi kakulu, ku lande- 
Iwa isililo, a ku tokozwa. Ku 
kala abantu nemiti notshani, nako 
konke ku zwakale esizweni lapa i 
Zdeke kona, ukuti i Alekile indoda 
e nga /deki. 


Kgandela ni umuntu o zenza 
inkosi, o nga sebenzi, o /dala nje ; 
ku sebenza abantu bake bodwa, 
yena k' enzi Tuto ; u ya ba tshe- 
nisa loko a ba ku tandayo, kodwa 
yena ka kw enzi ; a ba boni abantu 
bake, ba bonelwa u ye, bona ba 
izimpumpute, isizwe sonke sake ; 
u yena yedwa o bo nay o. Ba y' a- 
zi ukuba noma be nga boni bona, 
ngaye ba ya bona ; ngokuba a ba 
Iambi konke a ba ku swelayo ; u 
ya ba tata ngezand/da, a ba yise 
lapa ku kona ukudAla, ba buye 


Guess ye a man whom men do 
not like to laugh, for it is 
known that his laughter is a very 
great evil, and is followed by 
lamentation, and an end of re- 
joicing. Men weep, and trees and 
grass ; and every thing is heard 
weeping in the tribe where he 
laughs ; and they say the man has 
laughed who does not usually laugh. 


Guess ye a man yvho makes 
himself a chief ; who does not 
work, but just sits still ; his peo- 
ple work alone, but he does no- 
thing ; he shows them what they 
wish, but he does nothing ; his 
people do not see, he sees for them, 
they are blind, the whole of his 
nation ; he alone can see. They 
know that though they cannot see, 
they see by him ; for they do not 
go without any thing they want ; 
he takes them by the hand, and 
leads them to where there is food, 
and they return with it to their 


RIDDLES. 


307 


nako ; kodwa yena ka pati 'luto, 
ngokuba u zenz' inkosi ; u sa za 
wa ba inkosi, ngokuba abantu 
bake ba pila ngaye. 

Kuykala kwa ku kona umbango 
ngokuti, " U nge buse tina, u 
ng* enzi luto ; si nga wa boni 
ainandAla obukosi bako." Wa ba 
pendula ngokuti, " Loku ni ti a 
ngi 'nkosi, ngi za 'u/dala ke, ngi 
tule nje, ngi bheke pansi. Kga- 
loko ke ni ya 'ubona ukuba nem- 
bala ngi inkosi, ngokuba ngoku- 
bbeka kwami pansi izwe li za 
'kufa ; ni za 'kuwela emaweni na 
semigodini ; ni dAliwe na izilo, ni 
nga zi boni ; ni fe na indAlala, 
ukudAla ni nga ku toli ; loku ni 
banga nami, ni izimpumpute." 

Nembala ba bona ukuba u in- 
kosi, ba ti, "A ku vunywe obala, 
a si buse, si ze si pile. Uina si fa 
indAlala, lobo 'bukosi betu bu ya 
'kupela. Si amakosi ngokupila." 
Wa vunywa ke, wa busa ke ; izwe 
la tula. 


Kepa umuntu o nga gezi naka- 
nye ; u Alala nje. Kepa ku ti 
mAla e gula isifwana esincane nje, 
isizwe sonke sake si Alupeke, ku 
fiwe indAlala ; abantu b' esabe 
ukupuma ezindAlini, ngokuba ba 
ya 'kuwela emaweni, b' apuke. 
Ku fiswe ukuba nga e sinda masi- 
nyane ; ku tokozwe lapa e se 
smdile. 


homes ; but he touches nothing, 
for he makes himself a chief ; he 
remains a chief for ever, for his 
people are supported by him. 

At first there was a dispute, and 
his people said, " You cannot be 
our king and do nothing ; we can- 
not see the power of your majes- 
ty." He answered them, saying, 
" Since you say I am not a chief, 
I will just sit still, and look on 
the ground. Then you will see 
that I am truly a chief, for if I 
look on the ground the land will 
be desolate ; you will fall over pre- 
cipices and into pits ; you will be 
eaten by wild beasts through not 
seeing them ; and die through 
famine, being unable to find 
food ; because you dispute wfith 
me, you are blind." 

So they see that he is a chief, 
and say, " Let us acknowledge 
openly that he is our king, that 
w r e may live. If w r e die of famine, 
that majesty which we claim for 
ourselves will come to an end. 
We are kings by living." So he 
was acknowledged a chief, and 
reigned ; and the country was 
peaceful. 

And he is a man that never 
washes ; he just sits still. And 
when he is ill even with a slight 
illness all his nation is troubled, 
and dies of famine ; and the people 
are afraid to go out of their houses, 
because they would fail over pre- 
cipices and be dashed to pieces. 
They long for him to get well at 
once ; and the people rejoice when 
he is w r ell. 


12 


K^andela ni inkomo e nge na- 
nyama ; a ku sikwa 'ndawo kuyo ; 
ingulukuk^a nje ; a i hambi uma i 


Guess ye a bullock which has 
no flesh ; no one can cut into it 
any where ; it is a mere hard 
mass ; it does not go unless it is 


w w 


3GB 


IZINCANEKWAUE. 


nga kgutshwa, i ma njalo, i ze i 
sunduzwe umuntu. A i vumi 
ukusunduzwa uma y enyuswa ngo- 
mango ; i ze i vume uma y e/da. 
Inkomo e nga tandi ukwenyuka ; 
i tanda ukweuswa njalo, i vume 
ke. 


Futi, a i u weli umfula, i ma 
nganeno ; uma umuntu e tanda 
ukuba i wele, nga e i sunduza nga- 
mandAla amakulu ; kepa uma 
amanzi e tshonisa, a i vumi uku- 
wela, i ya m kcatshela emanzini ; 
ngokuba i y* azi ukukcatsha ema- 
nzini amakulu, a nga b' e sa i bona. 
T ketelwa izindawo ezi bonakalayo 
pansi, ukuze umuntu a i bone, a i 
k^ube kona ngoku i sunduza. 

UkudAliwa kwayo kunye 'ku- 
pela, ukukoka ngayo ikcala, uma 
umuntu e nekcala eli nga kgedwa 
ngayo. 'Kupela ke i lowo umse- 
benzi e w enzayo. 

Kepa inkomo e nolaka kakulu ; 
uma i sunduzwa i bekiswa enda- 
weni e ngasen/da, ku ya Alakani- 
tshwa abantu aba i k^ubayo, onm- 
nye a tsbo kubo ukuti, " Hlaka- 
nipa ni ; le 'nkomo ni ya y azi 
ukuba a i tandani nokwenyuka; 
bheka ni i nga si Alabi ; uku si 
Alaba kwayo ku ya 'kuba kubi ka- 
kulu, ngokuba si ngenzansi, yon a 
i ngen/da ; si ya 'uko/dwa ukuvika, 
ngokuba indawo imbi, a i si lunge- 
le ; si ya 'kuti lapa si ti si ya vika, 
si we, i tike i si kgedele." I k^u- 
tshwa ngoku/dakanipa okunjalo 
ke, ukuze ku ti lapa se y ala 
ukwenyuka, i funa ukubuya, ba i 
dedele, i d/dule ; kumbe ba nga be 
be sa i landa, ngoba i ya 'kubaleka, 
i ba shiye, i ze i tike endaweni e 
lungele yona, abantu i nga sa ba 
lungele ; b' a/duleke. 


forced, but always stands still, 
until it is pushed along by some 
one. It will not be pushed along 
if it is driven up a steep place ; 
but it allows itself to be pushed 
down. It is a bullock which does 
not like to go up hill ; it likes 
always to be made to go down, 
and then makes no opposition. 

Further, it does not cross a 
river, it stands still on one side ; if 
any one wishes it to cross, he must 
push it with great strength ; but 
if the water is very deep, it will 
not cross, but hides itself from 
him in the water ; for it knows 
how to hide in deep water, and he 
can see it no more. One chooses 
for it a place where he can see the 
bottom, that he may see it and 
drive it forward by pushing it. 

There is only one mode of eating 
it by paying a debt, if a man has a 
debt which can be paid by it. 
That, then, is the only work it can 
do. 

And it is a very fierce bullock ; 
if it is pushed up hill, the men 
who drive it are on their guard, 
and one says to the others, " Be 
on your guard ; you know that 
this bullock does not like to go up 
hill ; take care that it does not 
gore us ; if it gores us it will be 
very bad indeed, for we are below, 
and it is above us, and we shall be 
unable to shield ourselves, for it is 
a bad place, and is not advantage- 
ous for us ; and when we think 
we are shielding ourselves, we 
shall fall, and it come and make 
an end of us." It is driven with 
such care, that when it will not go 
up, and wishes to come back again, 
they may make way for it and it 
pass on ; and perhaps they will 
not follow it any more ; for it will 
run away, and leave them behind, 
till it comes to a place which is 
good for it, but bad for the men. 
So they are beat. 


Umpengula Mbanda. 


KEY TO THE KIDDLES. 


369 


KEY TO THE RIDDLES. 


l 


Si tsho ind/du ukuti inkomo e 
isengwakazi; ukusengwa kwayo ku 
ukutokoza ngayo pansi kwayo, 
ngokuba i Alala isikati eside, aba- 
ntu be londekile, be nga zinge 
b' aka. Ku ze ku ti ngam/da i 
wayo, i be se i wile njalo ; a i sa 
yi 'kupinda i vuke. Si ti " i inko- 
mo " ukuze umuntu a nga kcaba- 
ngi ngend/du, a zinge e funa nga- 
sezinkomeni, e landela igama lo- 
kuti " inkomo," 'esabe ukuti in- 
d/du ; u ti, " Ngi ya 'kuti ind/du 
kanjani, loku ku tiwa inkomo nje 
na ? Ngi ya 'kuba ngi y' eduka." 


We mean a house by the cow 
which gives much milk ; the milk 
is the joy a house affords those 
who live beneath it, for it remains 
a long time, the people being pre- 
served, and not continually build- 
ing. But when it falls it has 
fallen for ever ; it never rises up 
again. We say "cow" that a 
man may not think of a house, but 
seek about continually among 
cattle, following the name " cow," 
and fearing to say house, saying, 
" How can I say that a house is a 
cow 1 I shall make a great mis- 
take if I say house." 


2 


XJmuzi, nezind/dela ezi puma 
kuwo zi iminyombo e /danzayo ; 
ngokuba a ku ko 'nd/dela i nge 
namuzi ; zonke izind/dela zi puma 
emakaya, zi ya emakaya. A ku 
ko 'ndAlela e nga yi 'kaya. In- 
d/dela si ti i umnyombo o /danzayo, 
ukuze imfumbe i be nAle ngobulu- 
kuni. Amatanga imizi e ku puma 
kuyo izind/dela. 


A village, and the paths which 
pass from it are the branches, 
which bear fruit ; for there is no 
path without a village ; all paths 
quit homesteads, and go to home- 
steads. There is no path which 
does not lead to a homestead. 
We say the path is a branch which 
bears fruit, that the riddle may be 
good because it is hard. The 
pumpkins are villages from which 
the paths go out. 


3 


Intwala, ngokuba umuntu u ya 
i tata engutsheni, ka namand/da 
oku i bulala ngesitupa si sinye ; 
uma e nga Alanganisi izitupa zozi- 
bili, a i kcindezele, i fe ; nesinye 
isitupa si be bomvu, nesinye si be 
njalo, zi lingane zombili ngobubo- 
mvu. Si ti " inkomo," ukuze 


A louse, for a man takes it out of 
his blanket, but he cannot kill it 
with one thumb ; but only by 
bringing the two thumbs together, 
and squeezing it between them 
that it may die ; and both nails be 
bloody, and one equal the other in 
being red. We say " ox," that the 


3 TO 


IZIKGANEKWANE. 


imfumbe leyo i be lukuni uku i 
k^andela ; emuva, uma se b' aAlu- 
lekile, u ba tshele o ba k^andeli- 
sayo, ti, " Intwala ni ti a inkomo 
ngani na, loku i Alatshelwa eziba- 
yeni ezibili V* u tsbo izitupa. 
W enza uku ba dukisa, ngokuti, 
izibaya. 


riddle may be difficult to guess ; 
afterwards when they cannot tell, 
you say to the persons who 
are guessing, " Why do you say 
that a louse is not an ox, for it is 
killed in two cattle-pens ] " mean- 
ing the thumbs. You do thus to 
lead them wrong, by calling them 
cattle-pens. 


4 


Insika a i lali, ngokuba i y' ema 
njalo, i linde indAlu. Uma insika 
i lala, indAlu i nga wa. Kodwa 
lapa e ti " indoda," u ya pamba- 
nisa, ukuze imikcabango yabantu 
i nga fiki masinyane ezintweni ; 
kodwa ba zinge be kcabangela ku- 
bantu njengegama lokuti indoda. 
Lapa se b' aAlulekile, a ti, " Ni ti 
insika a indoda ngani, loku ni i 
bona nje i pase indAlu ingaka 1 
Kepa i nga wi." 


A pillar does not lie down, for 
it stands constantly and watches 
the house. If the pillar lies down, 
the house may fall. But when 
one says " a man," he entangles 
the matter, that the thoughts of 
the men may not reach the things 
at once ; but continually have 
their thoughts running on men in 
accordance with the word, man. 
When they cannot tell, one re- 
plies, " Why do you not say that 
the pillar is a man, since you see 
it upholding so great a house as 
this ? But it does not fall." 


IndAlebe. U ba tshela lapa se 
b' a/dulekile, a ti, " Ubani owa ka 
wa bona indAlebe yomuntu ukuza- 
mazama kwayo, i zamazamiswa 
umoya na ? Si ya bona imiti no- 
tshani nezindAlu zi zamazama ; 
kepa indAlebe, k ga ; ku zamazama 
umuntu yedwa ; noma 'emuka no- 
moya, a ku muki yona, ku muka 
yena ; uma e wa, yona i se mi ; 
noma e baleka, i mi njalo." 


The ear. One says to them 
when they cannot tell, " Who ever 
saw the ear of a man move, it 
being moved by the wind 1 ? We 
see trees and grass and houses 
move ; but not the ear ; the man 
only moves ; if he is carried away 
by the wind, the ear is not carried 
away, it is he who is carried away ; 
or if he falls, it still stands erect ; 
or if he runs away, it still stands 
erect." 


6 


Amazinyo. Si ti abantu ab' e- 
nze uAla ngokuba amazinyo a mise 
kwabantu be lungela ijadu, ukuze 
ba sine kaAle. Lapa si ti, ba 


The teeth. We call them men 
who form a row, for the teeth 
stand like men who are made 
ready for a wedding-dance, that 
they may dance well. When we 


KEY TO THE RIDDLES. 


371 


" viimile ngamatshoba amAlope," 
si ya ngenisa, ukuze abantu ba nga 
kcabangi masinyane ngokuti ama- 
zinyo, ba kitshwe ngokuti, " Aba- 
ntu ba faka amatshoba," ba zinge 
be funa ngakubantu ; ngokuti, 
loku amatshoba a fakwa abantu be 
y' ejachvini, b' eza 'usina, noku- 
Alela abantu, ba zinge be tsho 
ukuti, " Amadoda lawo abantu." 
Kepa a ti o ba k^andelisayo, 
" Kepa ba ya 'kusina kanjani uma 
se be Alangene ngemizimba na ! " 
A zinge e ba kipa ngamazwi ku- 
loko a ba ku tshoyo. Ka piki nje 
ukuti, " K^a ; a si ko loko. Im- 
fumbe a y enziwa njalo." Umuntu 
u ba kipa ngamazwi, ba kolwe 
nembala ba bone ukuti, " A si ka 
fiki lapa e tsho kona." A ti ngo- 
kutsho ukuti, "A ni wa boni 
amazinyo ; ukuAlela kwawo nje- 
ngabantu; amatshoba amAlope a 
ni wa boni amazinyo 1 " Ba ti, 
" U s' aAlulile." 


say, they are " adorned with white 
hip-dresses," we put that in, that 
people may not at once think of 
teeth, but be drawn away from 
them by thinking, " It is men who 
put on white hip-dresses," and con- 
tinually have their thoughts fixed 
on men ; for since white hip-dresses 
are put on by men when they are 
going to a wedding to dance, and 
to set men in order, they say con- 
tinually, " The men of the riddle 
are men." And the man who is 
making them guess says, " But 
how can they dance if their bodies 
touch 1 " He continually draws 
them away by words from that 
which they say. He does not 
merely deny that they are right 
by saying, "No; it is not that. 
The riddle is not explained in that 
way." He draws them away by 
words, and they really believe that 
they see that they are not near the 
meaning of the riddle. At length 
he says, " Do you not see the 
teeth ; their order like that of 
men ; the white hip-dresses do you 
not see they mean the teeth 1 " 
They say, "You have beaten us." 


Ulimi lu umuntu o Alupekayo 
ngokuba lu pakati kwempi ; ama- 
zinyo a impi ; ngokuba uma ama- 
zinyo e dAla ukudAla, ulimi lu 
zinge lu tola ingozi ngesikati ama- 
zinyo e lwa nokudAla, ukuze a ku 
gayise. Ngaloko ke lapa si ti 
" umuntu," si ya pambanisa, uku- 
z' abantu ba nga kumbuli masi- 
nyane ngolwimi, ba zinge be funela 
ngakubantu, ngokuti, " Loku in- 
daba i ti umuntu nje na, i nga 
tsho ukuti ulimi, so ba si ya ponsi- 


The tongue is a man which is in 
affliction because it is in the midst 
of enemies ; the teeth are the 
enemy ; for when the teeth are 
eating, the tongue is often injured 
whilst they are fighting with the 
food, that they may grind it. 
Therefore when we say " a man," 
we entangle the subject, that men 
may not at once think of the 
tongue, but continually have their 
search directed to men ; and they 
say, " Since the riddle says a man 
only, and says nothing about the 
tongue, we shall be wrong if we 


372 


IZINGANEKWANE. 


sa uma si ti ulimi." Ngaloko ke 
nembala a lu tokozi, ngokuba lapa 
amazinyo e Alafuna ukud/da uli- 
mi lu zinge lu nyakanyakaza em- 
katini wamazinyo, lu vika, ku nga 
bulawa ukud/da, ngokuba ukudAla 
ku ya bulawa njalonjalo amazinyo ; 
kepa Iona a lu bulawa amazinyo, 
ngokuba lu y' aziwa, umuntu wa- 
kona ; kepa lu zinge lu tola ingozi, 
ngokuba ku liwa esikund/deni salo, 
lapa lw ake kona ; lu tokoze uma 
ukud/da ku nga ka dAliwa ; lapa 
ku d/diwa ukud/da, lw azi ke uku- 
ba konje namu/da se ngi sengozini, 
ngi za 'kubulawa, ku nga kcetshwa 
mina ; ngi fa ngokuba ku liwa 
pambi kwami. Nango ke umuntu 
o pakati kwezita, ulimi. 


say the tongue." The tongue, 
then, is not happy, for when the 
teeth are chewing food, the tongue 
continually moves from side to side 
between the teeth, and Is on its 
guard when the food is killed ; for 
the food is constantly killed by 
the teeth ; but the tongue is 
not killed by them, for it is 
known, it is a man of that 
place; but it continually meets 
with an accident, for there is 
fighting in the place where it 
dwells ; it is happy before the food 
is eaten ; but when the food is 
being eaten, it knows that it is in 
the midst of danger, and is about 
to be injured, without having had 
any charge made against it; it 
dies because the battle is fought in 
its presence. There, then, is the 
man who is in the midst of ene- 
mies, the tongue. 


8 


Imivalo. TJkusebenza kwayo 
ebusuku ukulinda izinkomo ngo- 
kuvala esangweni ; ku /dangane 
ukuze inkomo i nga toli 'ndawo 
yokupuma ; noma i linga uku- 
puma y a/duleke ngokukgina kwe- 
mivalo ; ku ze ku se izinkomo zi 
nga pumanga; ekuseni zi pume 
ngokuvulelwa, imivalo i lale ke. 


Iminwe. Ukuma kwayo i 
ishumi 'kupela ; i lingene, i hamba 
ngamibili. Ngaloko ke uma ku 


The closing-poles of the cattle- 
pen. Their work by night is to 
watch the cattle by closing the 
gateway ; they are close together 
that the cattle may not find a 
place of escape ; though one try to 
get out it may be unable to do so 
through the strength of the bars ; 
and when it is morning the cattle 
have not got out ; in the morning 
they go out because the gateway is 
opened for them, and so the closing 
poles lie on the ground. 


The fingers. Their proper num- 
ber is only ten ; they are matched, 
going in pairs . 26 Therefore, if 

— the ring and little fingers, — 


26 He means, the index and middle fingers, 
and the thumbs. 


KEY TO THE RIDDLES. 


373 * 


kona wonmvo, a i sa lingani na 
sekuhambeni na sekubaleni ; kubi 
ukubala kwayo ; a k\v aAluki, ku 
isipitipiti nje. I loko ke e si ti i 
libala ukuteta ikcala, ngokuti, uma 
ku y' enzeka, a ku ko 'buAlungu, 
u nga suswa umunwe ngezwi nje, 
impela ku nga tshiwo ukuti, " Su- 
ka ; a u fanele lapa." 


there is a supernumerary finger, 
they are no longer fit either to go 
together in pairs or to count with ; 
their counting is bad ; there is no 
argument, but only difference. 
This is what we mean when we 
say they are slow in settling the 
dispute, that is, if it could be done 
without pain the supernumerary 
finger could be taken off with a 
word, truly it would be said, 
" Away with you ; you are not fit 
for this place." 


10 


Umlilo. Ku tiwa u indoda 
ukuze loko oku tshiwoyo ku nga 
bonakali masinyane, ku fiAlwa 
ngendoda. Abantu ba tsho oku- 
ningi, be funa ngokupikisana, be 
geja. I b' enAle imfumbe ngaloku 
ngoku nga bonwa masinyane. Si 
ti " indoda," ngokuba umlilo a ku 
tandeki na sendAlini u basiwe 
ukuba u k^atshe izinAlansi zawo 
zi wele ezingutsheni. Ku ya ka- 
lwa umninizo ngokuba i ya 'ku- 
tsha ; a bone se i bobokile, a kale. 
Noma ku pekiwe ukudAla, uma 
umlilo umkulu, ku nga bekwa im- 
biza, i ya 'kutshiswa umlilo, yona 
i tsliise ukudAla. I Alekile ke in- 
doda, ukuti umlilo. So ku kalwa. 
Futi uma inAlansi i ponseke etsha- 
nini bendAlu, i nga bonwa, ku 
bonwe ngokutsha ; ku ya 'uAla- 
ngana abantu bonke lapa ku bona- 
kale ilangabi lawo, i tshe indAlu 
nezinto zonke ; ku kalwe kakulu ; 
nezimbuzi zi tshe namatole ; naba- 
ntwana ba tshe. Ku kale izinko- 
mo, zi kalela amatole azo e file ; 
ku kale abantu, be kalela izimbuzi 
zabo ; ku kale umfazi nendoda, be 


Fire. It is called a man that 
what is said may not be at once 
evident, it being concealed by the 
word, " man." Men say many 
things, searching out the meaning 
in rivalry, and missing the mark. 
A riddle is good when it is not 
discernable at once. We say " a 
man," because it is not liked that 
the fire, even indoors where it is 
kindled, should cause its sparks to 
start out and fall on the clothes. 
The owner of the clothes cries 
because it burns ; and when he 
sees a hole in it, he cries again. 
Or if food is being cooked, if the 
fire is large the pot may be put 
on, and be burned by the fire, and 
the pot burn the food. So the 
man laughs, that is, the fire. And 
the people cry. Again, if a spark 
is cast into the thatch of the hut, 
it is seen by the fire ; all the men 
will come together when the flame 
of the fire appears, and burns the 
house with the things which are in 
it ; and there is a great crying ; 
and the goats are burnt, and the 
calves ; and the children are burnt. 
The cows cry, crying for their 
calves which are dead ; men cry, 
crying for their goats ; the wife 
and husband cry, crying for their 


374 


IZIN G ANEKWANE, 


kalela abantwana babo be tshile ; 
nabantwana ba kalele uyise e tshi- 
le, \va fa e ti u landa impa/da yake 
e igugu, indAlu i dilikele pezu 
kwake ; ku kala nendoda, i kalela 
umfazi wayo e tshile, wa fa e be ti 
u landa umntwana pakati kwen- 
d/du, wa fa naye ; ku kale neniiti, 
i kalela ubu/de bayo obu nga se 
ko, se bu tshiswe umlilo, se i 
shwabene imiti, se i bunile, ubu/de 
bavo bu pelile ; ku kale nezinko- 
mo, zi kalela utshani, ngokuba a zi 
sa d/di 'luto, se zi fa ind/dala. I 
loko ke uku/deka kwomlilo. 


children which are burnt ; and the 
children cry for their father who 
has been burnt, haying died whilst 
fetching his precious things from 
the burning house, and the house 
fell in on him ; and the husband 
cries, crying for his wife who has 
been burnt ; she died when she 
was fetching her child which was 
in the house, and was burnt toge- 
ther with it; and the trees cry, 
crying for their beauty which is 
lost, being now destroyed by the 
fire, and the trees are shrivelled 
and withered, and their beauty 
gone ; and the cattle cry, crying 
for the grass, because they no 
longer have any thing to eat, but 
are dying of famine. This, then, 
is the laughing of fire. 


11 


Iso. I The eye . 27 

12 


Itshe. Lapa si ti " ukukoka 
ikcala," si tslio ukubiya indawo e 
ku sweleke ukuba i vinjwe nge- 
tshe ; noma ukugaya ngalo. Uku- 
k^eda ikcala ke loko, i kona si ti, 
" Li ya d/diwa ngako," ngokuba 
nalo i kona imisebenzi e ku swele- 
kele ukuba y enziwe ngalo lodwa. 

Umpengula M ban da. 


A stone. When we say " pay- 
ing a debt," we mean when it is 
wanted to stop up the gateway of 
an enclosed place with a stone ; or 
to grind with it. That is to pay a 
debt ; and therefore we say, " It is 
eaten," for it too has its work 
which can be done by it alone. 


27 This riddle bears a curious resemblance to our fable of ' ' The Belly and 
the Members." It is as much a fable as a riddle. 


ERRATA. 


375 


ERRATA. 


Preface to Yol. 

I., P. 3, Line 16, 

Page 9, 

Note, Line 3, 

15, 

Note 16, L. 7, 

23, 

19, 

30, 

17, 

35, 

3, 

44, 

26, 

54, 

Note 54, L. 1, 

62, 

32, 

63, 

34, 

71, 

5, 

76, 

Note 99, L. 2, 

84, 

- Note 12, L. 6, 

95, 

Note 25, L. 2, 

105, 

Note 36, L. 1 3, 

113, 

17, 

118, 

1, 

123, 

Note 58, L. 13, 

149, 

8, 

149, 

9, 

. 153, 
159, 

10, 

9, 

163, 

22, 

188, 

Note 31, L. 3, 

199, 

Note 43, 15, 

204, 

205, 

Note 47, 33, 

Note 47, L. 4, 

212, 

13, 

226, 

26, 

234, 

£Tote 76, L. 12, 

244, 

Note 92, 10, 

252, 

294, 

31, 

19, 

317, 

47, 


346, 10, 

346, 29, 


FOR 

READ 

reflection 

refraction 

Jamsaxa 

J arnsaxa 

been 

seen 

wati 

wa ti 

Whoever 

Who ever 

umninikazind/d u umnikazind/du 

natiou 

nation 

Kabib 

Kabip 

umnyeni 

umyeni 

vutele 

« Yutela " 

their 

there 

Abbousset's 

Arbousset's 

natives 

nations 

tradition 

tradition 

Mary Loft 

Mary Toft 

rogal 

royal 

are 

is 

Snend 

Svend 

'uggushuka 

'ug^ashuka 

'ukgabuka 

'uggashuka 

who descended 

who, having des. 

Gleddon 

Gliddon 

king-medicine 

king's medicine 

Amanzi 

Ananzi 

has 

have 

Langfellow 

Longfellow 

Mira 

Miranda 

Lrak^aza 

kcwabaza 

enkabeni 

enkabini 

Jain 

Iain 

Ihhoboshi 

TJhhoboshi 

izintomhi 

izintombi 

Men believe in 

Men believe in 

the tales they 

the tales the 

talk about the 

diviner tells 

diviner 

them 

In the Izimbutu, 

It is at Izimbutu 

&c. 

or Usenthlonga 
These are the 
names of the 
place 

man 

men 

lay 

laid 


x x 



CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 


PAGE. 


Preface to Part I. - i. 

Introduction to Zulu Nursery Tales - 1 

Preface to Tale of Uthlakanyana - 3 

Uthlakanyana - - - 6 

Usikulumi-kathlokothloko - - 41 

Uzembeni; or, Usikulumi's Courtship - - 47 

Another Version - - 53 

Untombinde - - * 55 

Another Version - - 66 

Appendix. — Monsters - - 69 

Amavnkutu - - 72 

Usitungusobenthle - - 74 

Usitungusobenthle and the Amajubatente - - 78 

Uluthlazase - - 85 

Ulangalasenthla and Ulangalasenzansi - - 89 

Ubabuze - - * 96 

The Man and the Bird - - 99 

Ukcombekcansini - - 105 

Appendix. — " The Little Birds " - 130 

The Honey-bird - - 135 

The Bock of Two-lioles; or, The CannibaFs Cave - 140 

The Girl and the Cannibals - - - 142 

Addition to the foregoing Tale by another Native - 147 

Appendix. — The Heaven-country - - 152 

Umbadhlanyana and the Cannibal - - 154 

Cannibals - - 155 

Appendix. — Cannibalism - - 158 

The Mode of Eating a Bival Chief - 161 

Ugunggu-kubantwana - - 164 

Appendix (A). — TJgung^u-kubantwana - 176 

(B) . — The Izingogo - - 177 

The Origin of Baboons - 178 

Another Version - - 179 

(C) . — The Cannibal whom Umasendeni re- 

ceived into his house - 180 

U mkzakaza-wakogingi/wayo - - 181 

The Two Brothers - - 217 

TJbongopa-kamagadhlela - - - 221 

Umdhlubu and the Frog - - - 237 

Appendix (A). — The Girl-king - - 253 

(B). — The Heritage in Polygamic House- 
holds 


256 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE. 


TJnthlangunthlangu - 267 

Appendix (A). — Superstitions Abstinence from Food - 280 

(B).~ Sympathy by the Navel - 283 

The Great Fiery Serpent - - - 290 

The Rainbow - - 293 

Utshintsha and the Rainbow - - 294 

Another Tale - - - 295 

Untombi-yapansi - - 296 

Appendix - - - 316 

Umkatshana - - 317 

The Tale of Uncama-ngamanzi-egudu - 318 

IT mamba - - - 321 

Unanana-bosele - - 331 

The Wise Son of the King - - 335 

The Great Tortoise - - 339 

Appendix - - 342 

Fabulous Animals. — T he Isitwalangcengce - 343 

The History of TJdhlokweni - 346 

The Isitshakamana - - 347 

The Utikoloshe - - 349 

The Abatwa - - 352 

The Dreadfulness of the Abatwa - 354 

Fables. — T he Hyrax went without a Tail because he sent 

for it - - 355 

The Hyena and the Moon - - 357 

The Baboons and the Leopard - - 358 

The Tale of a Man who threw away some 
Bread ; he looked for it again, but never 
found it - 359 

Speaking Animals. — T he Tale of a Grow - - 362 

Another Tale of a Crow - 362 

The Tale of a Dog which made a 

Song 363 

Riddles - t - - 364 

Key to the Riddles - . . 

Knvta |HE| ' - 375 


END OF VOL.' I. 


Printed at Springvale Mission Station, Natal, 


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 


(From the Saturday Review.) 

" By this time the study of popular tales has become a recognised 
branch of the study of mankind. ...... 

It is highly creditable to Dr. Callaway, Dr. Bleek, and others to have 
made a beginning in a field of research which at first sight is not very 
attractive or promising. Many people, no- doubt, will treat these sto- 
ries with contempt, and declare they are not worth the paper on which 
they are printed. The same thing was said of Grimm's Mdhrchen ; 
nay, it -was said by Sir William Jones of the Zenda vesta, and, by less 
distinguished scholars, of the Yeda. But fifty years hence the collec- 
tion of these stories may become as valuable as the few remaining 
bones of the dodo." 

(From the Spectator.) 

"We shall look with great interest to the remaining parts of this 
series." 

(From the Kentish Gazette.) 

" This is in every respect a most interesting work." 

(From the Mission Field.) 

" The student of ethnology, or of that interesting branch of 
knowledge which is now entitled comparative mythology, will find 
rich materials in this book, and mil be grateful to the large-minded 
missionary who, amid more serious occupations, and many harassing 
cares, has opened a new intellectual field to European explorers." 

(From the Natal Witness.) 

u Some portions of the tale of Ukcombekcansini are as beautiful 
and graceful as a classic idyll. Once more, then, we heartily commend 
this work to our readers, wishing we may be able to persuade them to 
procure it for themselves, and so fully to enjoy a rich store of interest 
and amusement, of which they will otherwise have little conception. 
The -work decidedly improves, in every respect, as it proceeds, and this 
is high praise." 

" We must leave unnoticed many interesting portions of the book 
before us, trusting that we shall have succeeded in whetting the appe- 
tites of our readers sufficiently to procure it and read for themselves. 

It is impossible to open it anywhere without alighting upon either 

some curious analogue of our own nursery tales, or upon some strange 
phase of our common human nature. To the student of man, it is a 
book of singular interest." 

" The part before us of Dr. Callaway's most interesting collection 
of Zulu traditions, contains three tales that will yield the palm to 
none that have preceded them for the strange and startling variety of 
their incidents. Indeed, we cannot remember that in the legends or 
fairy tales of any people we have met with adventures of a more wild 
and imaginative cast than in the story of Umka:akaza, combined, too, 
with a broad genial humour, that reminds us of the rough old tales of 
the Norse Thor, and not unrelieved by touches of tenderness and 
pathos." 


OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 


(From the Times of Natal.) 

" The most interesting and fascinating collection of native stories 
and traditions which Dr. Callaway is now publishing." 

" The work will well repay a careful perusal by all desirous of 
becoming acquainted with native legends, and, in this case, with the 
pure Zulu language, as spoken without adulteration by the natives." 

" We can only add that this fourth part is another valuable addi- 
tion to the library of the Zulu student, and is also of much interest to 
the student of native lore." 

(From the Natal Mercury.) 

" It is undoubtedly a work that will teach the pure idiom of the 
Zulu language better than any other book yet published." 

" The matter continues most interesting to all persons who care 
to compare the varieties of life amongst different people and races." 

" Both this and the last two numbers should be purchased, and 
will repay the student. Dr. C. is certainly laying every individual 
colonist, friend of missions, or those who in any way desire the ame- 
lioration of the native races of this part of Southern Africa, under a 
great debt of gratitude." 

" To any student of Zululogy (if we may coin a phrase) this col- 
lection of stories, admirably rendered, and illustrated as they are, will 
be of inestimable service, and that the stories are worth perusal in 
themselves, on the score of mere originality and oddness, the following 
quaint extract will indicate." 

" This is another valuable addition to the works already printed 
in the Zulu language, and must give renewed satisfaction to the 
reader." 

(From the Natal Herald ») 

" We have here the first instalment of what promises to be a 
most valuable addition to the literature of the Kafir tribes, and cer- 
tainly is the most important which has been published in the colony." 

" We hasten to repair a too long deferred duty — that of calling 
our readers' attention to the second part of Dr. Callaway's Zulu Tales, 
which has lately issued from the Springvale press, and which, both in 
point of typography, and in intrinsic interest, is even more acceptable 
than the former. . . . We look forward with keen interest to the 

publication of the subsequent parts, in which we may expect to see 
the extent (or, should we say the limits ?) of their religious beliefs set 
forth in detail." 

" Dr. Callaway has fairly earned the title of the Grimm of Kafir 
Nursery Literature, but he has by no means confined his researches to 
this one class." 

u Dr. Callaway's work will form a complete repertory of Zulu 
literature of the highest value, and one such as probably no other man 
than himself could produce." 

" Again we have the pleasure ©f welcoming a new part of Dr. 
Callaway's Native Traditions, which go on increasing in variety and 
interest with every issue." 




























/ 

* 





It* * 

; **' ¦ ?, i j;- J 

DATE DUE 

¦ -j |j n 



LI|J ' 


1 




1 












I 

;< 'X 

| 



Wri m , ' f * f~ 




L ¦ 1 # v * 


















! 








ff 

1 



W '' . £ 

yA * i . * 

- 






~ W: • 

V.. 


GAYLORD 


'* • ' 

PRINTED IN U S A 
