About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/journalofexpedit00crow

--------------------------------------

JOURNAL 


OF 


AN EXPEDITION 


UP 


THE NIGER AND TSHADDA RIVERS, 


UNDERTAKEN 


BY MACGREGOR LAIRD, Esq. 

IN

CONNECTION WITH THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT, 
IN 1854. 


BY THE 

REV. SAMUEL CROWTHER. 


WITH MAP AND APPENDIX. 


LONDON: 

CHURCH MISSIONARY HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE; 
SEELEY, JACKSON, AND HALLIDAY, FLEET STREET. 
MDCCCLV. 


T. C. JOHNS, PRINTER, 
Wine Office Court, Fleet Street. 


CONTENTS 


CHAP. I. 

DEPARTURE FROM ABBEOKUTA — EMBAURATION AT LAGOS — 

ARRIVAL AT FERNANDO PO — THE LATE MR. BEECROFT 

ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE OF THE ‘PLEIAD^ — CROSSING 
THE BAR AT THE NUN — INDUSTRY IN THE DELTA — UN- 
HEALTHINESS OF THE DELTA — PROGRESS THROUGH THE 
DELTA — ABOH AND KING OBI — SIMON JONAS REMAINS AT 
ABOH — THE ATTA OP IDDA— AMA ABOKKO — DASABA — AR- 
RIVAL AT THE CONFLUENCE , , , , . , P. 3 

CHAP. II, 

ENTRANCE OP THE TSHADDA — SINCERITY OF AMA-ABOKKO — 

THE FILATAS — DESTRUCTION OF PANDA — lYANPE — THE 
BASSA COUNTRY AND LANGUAGE — CONSULTATION ABOUT 
TURNING BACK — PASS DAGBO, THE TERMINATION OF 
FORMER EXPEDITIONS — DOMA — BLIND REPORT OF TWO 
WHITE MEN IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD — THE MITSHI TRIBE 
— ORIGIN OF THE CHARGE OF CANNIBALISM — IGARA 
TRADITION — DETENTION AT OJOGO— CHARACTER OF ZUKI 
— KEANA AND ITS KING — ARRIVAL OFF ROGAN-KOTO — 
SUSPICION OF THE NATIVES AT GANDIKO AND GANKERA 
REMOVED BY CONFIDENCE 44 

CHAP. III. 

INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF OF ZHIBU— PROGRESS TO ZHIBU 
— DEGRADATION OP THE PEOPLE — DIFFICULTY IN PRO- 
CURING FUEL— GUROWA — VISIT TO HAMAUUWA — FAVOUR- 
ABLE RECEPTION BY THE KING — DESCRIPTION OF THE 
TOWN — ITS TRADE — FAILURE OF WOOD FOR FUEL — 
DETERMINATION TO PENETRATE THREE DAYS* VOYAGE 
HIGHER IN THE BOAT — THE STEAMER COMMENCES HER 
RETURN — GROUNDS ON A MUD BANK — RETURN OF THE 
BOAT 85 

CHAP. IV. 

RETURN OF THE EXPEDITION — DEPOPULATED STATE OF THE 
COUNTRY — ITS TRADE, RELIGION, AND LANGUAGE — ZHIBU 
— ATTEMPT TO VISIT WUKARI — SHUFFLING CONDUCT OF 
THE KING — GOODWILL OF THE CHIEFS AND PEOPLE — 


IV 


CONTENTS, 


PROGRESS TO ANYISHI — FAVOURABLE INTERVIEW WITH 
AGBO AND THE NEIGHBOURING CHIEFS — VISIT TO ANUFO 
— OPPRESSION OF THE FILANIS — HUMILIATING POSITION 
OF THE CONGUERED CHIEFS — INTERVIEW WITH THE 
CHIEF OF feOGAN-KOTO — REPORT OF THE MESSENGER 
FROM KEANA CONCERNING THE TWO WHITE TRAVELLERS 

— EKEREKU RAPACIOUS CONDUCT OF THE FILANIS 

ABATSHO — MOHAMMA, CHIEF OF PANDA — AMARAN MARKET 
— REPUBLIC OF YIMMAHA — KINDLY RECEPTION THERE — 
DESTRUCTION OF PANDA BY THE FILANIS — WILLINGNESS 
OF THE PANDA PEOPLE TO TRADE AND RECEIVE MIS- 
SIONARIES— RETURN TO THE CONFLUENCE . . . 127 

CHAP. V. 

SICKNESS OF TWO OF THE PARTY LEFT AT THE CONFLUENCE — 
EXCELLENT HEALTH OF THE EUROPEANS IN THE ‘PLEIAD* 

— DISSATISFACTION OF AMA-ABOKKO — DESIGN OF AMA AND 
DASABA TO BUILD A TOWN ON THE LAND PURCHASED BY 
THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT IN 1841 — ZURI*S MISCONDUCT 
REPORTED TO AMA — FRIENDLINESS OF THE NATIVES AND 
THEIR DESIRE FOR THE RE-ESTABLISHMENT OP THE MODEL 
FARM, AND TO BE TAUGHT GOD*S WORD — SYMBOLIC LETTER 

TO A NUPE IN SIERRA LEONE WISH FOR THE RETURN 

OF THE SIERRA LEONE PEOPLE TO THEIR COUNTRY 

GROWING POWER OF ABOKKO's PARTY — IDDA — HISTORY 

OF THE RISE OF THE ATTAS FRIENDLY RECEPTION AT 

ASABA — SUITABLENESS OF THAT PLACE AND OF ONITSHA 
FOR MISSIONARY STATIONS — FANCY CLOTHS, &C. AT ONIT- 
SHA MARKET — OSSAMARE — ABOH — INTERVIEW WITH AJE 
— HOSPITABLE TREATMENT RECEIVED BY SIMON JONAS — 
DESCRIPTION OP THE TOWN— CALL UPON THE CHURCH TO 
PREACH THE GOSPEL THERE — AGBEKUN's VISIT TO THE 
TSHUKU — INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF OF AGIAMA 


RECROSSING THE BAR — ARRIVAL AT FERNANDO PO . . 161 

APPENDIX 197 



Landcn 1855 . 









PREFACE, 


In the simimer of 1853, Macgregor Laird, Esq., 
a merchant of London, long and extensively 
engaged in the West African trade, entered into 
a contract Avith Her Majesty’s Government to 
fit out and send a small steamer to the river 
Niger, to ascend the stream to the confluence 
with the Tshadda, and then to explore that 
branch of the river. The object of the Expe- 
dition was to establish commercial relations 
with the native tribes : it was also hoped that 
Dr. Barth, the celebrated African traveller, would 
be met with in that part of the country.* Her 
Majesty’s Government was to appoint certain 
officers to accompany the Expedition, and Mr. 
Laird was to provide for trade and barter with 
the natives. The risk and main expense of the 

* About the time when the earlier sheets of The Journal were 
passing through the press, rumours had reached this country that 
Dr. Barth had lost his life in Africa ; and hence the doubt re- 
specting him expressed in a note, which wiU be found in p. 19 . 
Dr. Barth, happily, has since returned to this country in safety. 
While the Expedition was up the Tshadda he was at a consider- 
able distance in the interior. 


VI 


PREFACE. 


undertaking rested with Mr. Laird, who imme- 
diately made to the Committee of the Church 
Missionary Society, the generous offer of a free 
passage for the Rev. Samuel Crowther, if he 
might be allowed to accompany the Expedition. 
After communicating with Africa, and ascer- 
taining Mr. Crowther’s willingness to go, the 
Committee thankfully accepted Mr, Laird’s offer. 
This act of liberality on the part of Mr. Laird, 
is only an additional proof of the lively interest 
which he has long taken in promoting the best 
interests of the natives of Africa. 

Mr. Crowther had accompanied the former 
Niger Expedition in 1841, under Captain H. D. 
Trotter, R.N., of which an account was pub- 
lished by the Society, containing the journals 
of the Rev. C. E. Schon and Mr. Crowther. 
Another member of the present Expedition, Mr. 
Simon Jonas, a native Christian, had also ac- 
companied the former, as an Interpreter. 

The general results of this Expedition, as con- 
trasted with all former attempts, are ably stated 
in letters written after its return by Mr. Laird 
to the Earl of Clarendon, which are with his 
Lordship’s permission, here inserted. 


PREFACE. 


ni 


Mr. MACGREGOR Laird to the Earl of 
Clarendon. 


3, Mincing-lane, 

8th Feb., 1855. 

My Lord, 

I have the honour and pleasure to inform you 
that the exploring steam-vessel ‘ Pleiad,’ has safely 
returned from the Chadda, after ascending 250 
miles beyond the point reached by former Expe- 
ditions. 

The exploration occupied 118 days, and was un- 
accompanied by any loss of life ; marking a new era 
in African discovery, and showing that by means of 
her navigable streams, the interior of that immense 
continent, may be safely and economically brought 
into relation with the civilized world. 

I beg leave to congratulate your Lordship on the 
success which has attended an enterprise, promoted 
principally by yourself, and trust that that success 
will be followed up annually for some years to come, 
until the interior of that great continent is fully ex- 
plored by the countrymen of Park and Clapperton, 
under their national flags. 

These immense African rivers being now proved 
accessible to Europeans under proper management, 
and at the proper season with impunity, my object in 
offering to contract for the service is attained, and I 
must decline proceeding further, as the outlay of 


¦vm 


PRErACE. 


capital necessary is too great a strain upon my pri- 
vate means ; and the loss already sustained is quite 
as much as I am justified in sacrificing, even for such 
an object. 

I have the honour to remain, 

My Lord, 

Your obedient servant, 

M. Laird. 

The Eight Hon. Lord Clarendon. 


Mr. Macgregor Laird to the Earl of 
Clarendon. 

3, Mincing Jane, 

5th March, 1855. 

My Lord, 

The result of the late ascent of the Chadda 
has been so successful in proving the practicability 
of exploring Central Africa by her magnificent rivers, 
which in all tropical countries, and in Africa espe- 
cially, are the natural lines of communication, that 
I trust Her Majesty’s Government will persevere in 
following up the geographical discoveries so ably 
commenced by Dr. Baikie ; and though the expense 
and risk has proved too great for me, individually, 
to again ofter my services on the same terms as 
contractor, the interest I take in the subject may 
excuse my now addressing your Lordship. 

Standing out in broad relief from all former 
ascents of the Niger or land expeditions of discovery 
into Central Africa, the Chadda exploration is re- 


PREFACE. 


IX 


markable for the safe return to this country of all 
Europeans engaged in it. 

In 1805, Mungo Park perished descending the 
Niger with three companions, the survivors of 38 
men who left the Gambia with him. 

In 1816 Captain Tuckey's Exjiedition to the 
Congo faded, and only one survivor of it reached 
England. 

In 1821 to 1824, Denham and Clapperton’s 
Expedition from the Mediterranean to Soudan, lost 
its leader. Dr. Oudney, and other Europeans. 

In 1825, Clapperton himself, and his compa- 
nions, Captain Pearce and Dr. Morrison, lost their 
lives penetrating the Continent from the Bight of 
Benin, his servant, Richard Lander, being the sole 
survivor. 

In the same year. Major Laing perished after 
reaching Timbuctoo. 

In 1830, Richard and John Lander reached the 
Niger from Badagry, and floating down the stream, 
discovered its embouchure on the Bight of Biafra. 

In 1832 and 1833, the Liverpool Expedition 
(the first ascent of the Niger from the sea) took 
place under my command. We lost 40 out of 49 
Europeans. 

In 1836, 1840, and 1845, the late Consul Bee- 
croft made the ascents of the Niger with consider- 
able loss of European life on each occasion. 

In 1841, the Government Expedition under 
Captain Trotter, lost, in 62 days, 42 white men 
out of 150. 

The Chadda expedition may he therefore consi- 


X 


PREFACE. 


dered to mark a new era in African discovery; the 
deadly climate having been fairly met and con- 
quered by improved medical treatment and me- 
chanical organization. The plausible objection to 
exploring Africa — the risk of life — is answered ; and 
the question now is, whether, after the lives of so 
many gallant men have been sacrificed, during the 
last half century, in clearing the way, and that 
way being now proved to be safe and practicable. 
Pier Majesty’s Government will, at an expense of 
a few thousands annually, complete the work of 
discovery in Central Africa, or allow that honour, 
which ought to belong to the British race, to be 
reaped by others. 

Whatever ultimately may be the commercial 
value of the trade of Central Africa, the results of 
all trading expeditions hitherto have proved its pre- 
sent amount to be not equal to the expense of 
getting at it. Speaking as a mercantile man, there 
is no inducement to follow up the trade. For years 
it must be a losing one ; and if after seven or ten 
years it became profitable, others would reap its 
benefits equally with the first adventurers. 

As to any appreciable effect the continuance of 
the exploration would have upon the foreign traflSc 
in slaves, that depends so much, if not altogether, 
upon the demand in the Western hemisphere, that 
annual expeditions for years to come could not pos- 
sibly affect it. 

The reasons I venture to urge upon your Lord- 
ship to continue the exploration of Central Africa 
are, the scientific and geographical results that it is 


PKEFACE. 


XI 


proved may now be realized, at little risk of life, 
in the unknown countries which extend over 25 
degrees of latitude, and 50 degrees of longitude, 
and which are virgin ground to the traveller. The 
great importance of keeping up the spirit of enter- 
prize and research in our countrymen, and the ad- 
vantage we possess in having in the educated African 
youth in the Colonies of the Gambia, Sierra Leone, 
and the Gold Coast, most efficient Native agents; 
by their means new energy and a higher standard 
of living may be introduced naturally, unobtrusively, 
and rapidly, into the remotest regions of the interior. 

To succeed, this return of the civilized African 
to his native country, carrying the English habits 
and language with him, must be spontaneous and 
self-supporting. 

The next point is to make the communication 
annual and regular, so as to give the people confi- 
dence in the periodical visit of a steamer. 

I attach great importance to the annual visit 
of the steamer, as it would prevent the tribes in 
the Delta stopping the passage of the people above 
them to the sea — enabling them to open direct com- 
munication with the trading vessels at the mouths 
of the rivers. 

From the observations of Dr. Baikie, it would 
appear the month of June is the best time to 
enter the Niger. This would require the steamer 
to leave this country in April, so that if the expe- 
dition is to be renewed, an early decision must be 
come to. I am still of opinion that the best way 
to carry it on is by contract for a certain number of 

A .3 


PREFACE. 


su 

years. The expense is then fixedj and the con- 
tractor has every inducement to encourage the trade, 
and keep on good terms with the natives. But if 
the Government wish to carry it on entirely with 
their own officers, after the experience acquired, and 
consider tlie ‘ Pleiad ' a suitable vessel for the pur- 
pose, I will hand her over, at a valuation, on her 
arrival in the Thames, and give every assistance in 
my power to forward the enterprize; or if any pri- 
vate individual undertakes it, I will he glad to afford 
him all the information I possess as to the trade, 
and if he wishes it, deliver the ‘ Pleiad ’ to him on 
the same terms. 

I take for granted that Her Majesty’s Govern- 
ment have no intention of forming any settlement, 
or interfering with the native powers in Central 
Africa. I should very much regret if any such at- 
tempt was made. The only hope of improving the 
interior is by African influence, introducing a supe- 
rior race of negro blood. This can be found to 
considerable extent in the youth of our own Colo- 
nies. They volunteer for the work, and all that is 
required is to open the way for them. When in 
the interior they will soon assert their superiority, 
and may be safely left to take charge of themselves. 

I know, ray Lord, that it will be said the time 
is not favourable for a renewal of African expedi- 
tions; that other and more vital affairs occupy and 
engross the attention and mind of the public; but 
I trust and know that this is not, and never was 
the true feeling of the great mass of my country- 
men. Fifty years back, while engaged in a far 


PREFACE. 


XIU 


severer struggle than the present one, they sent 
out Mungo Park to explore Central Africa for the 
pure love of science ; and the present generation 
will as readily support yoru’ Lordship in carrying 
out the work you have commenced. 

I have the honour to remain, 

&c., &c., 

M. Laird. 

The Right Hon. Lord Clarendon. 


To these letters must he added one from the 
Rev. S. Crowther, in which he takes a brief 
review of the Expedition, and makes a forcible 
appeal on the importance of immediate measures 
to improve the existing facilities for introducing 
Civilization and Christianity amongst his coun- 
trymen, in the regions of the Niger. 

The Rev. S. Crowther to the Rev. II. Venn. 

''Bacchante ' at Sea, 

Dec. 2, 1854. 

Rev. and dear Sir, 

You will, no doubt, he glad to hear that we 
have returned from the Niger in good health and 
spirits, — a singular instance, without any death, 
either among the Europeans, twelve in number, or 
among the fifty-four Africans, either from sickness or 
accident. The Expedition was in the river exactly 


XIV 


PREFACE. 


sixteen weeks, tlie very day it returned to the mouth 
of the Nun. We commenced our ascent of the 
Tshadda on the 7th of August, and the last point we 
were able to reach was Gurowa, above Bomanda, a 
port of Hamaruwa,* about 300 miles from the con- 
fluence of the Kowara and Tshadda, on the 22nd 
of September, when we were completely short of fuel, 
no wood being obtainable within three or four miles 
of the banks of the river. This was the only diffi- 
culty we met with, and which prevented our reach- 
ing the confluence of the Binue and Faro, where it was 
crossed by Dr. Barth, and, according to all the ac- 
counts we have received, could not have been more 
than 100 miles from Hamaruwa. It could be reached 
in five days’ journey on foot, travelling by the course 
of the river, but dangerous on account of unsubdued 
natives, and ten days’ journey by a circuitous route 
around the Fumbina mountains, which was said to 
he safer. The reception we met with all along from 
the kings and chiefs of the countries on the Binue 
was beyond expectation. We made two visits to 
Mohamma, the Sultan of Hamaruwa, fourteen miles 
from the river, in both which we were most respect- 
fully received and entertained by the Sultan. 

We returned to Abohf on the 31st of October, 
and met Simon Jonas, whom we had left there, quite 
well and much respected by all, both chiefs and 
people. He moved about among them with perfect 
freedom, and made several visits up the river, to Os- 

* Spelt Hamarrua in Mr. Koelle’s map. 

t Ibo or Aboh, the chief to'vvn of the Ibo Tribe, situated on the 
upper border of the Delta of the Niger. 


PREFACE. 


XV 


samare, Onitsha, and Asaba markets, and to an inte- 
rior town called Oko-Ala, on the back of Aboh, of 
about a day’s journey ; the chief of which place asked 
Simon Jonas, why we always stopped at Aboh, 
and never paid them a visit ; to whom Jonas replied, 
that there will not be left a place unvisited in due 
time. He was about three days absent from Aboh, 
when he returned, for fear the steamer might amve 
in his absence. 

Simon Jonas spoke to them of the folly of their 
superstitious customs, and he said, the one of chew- 
ing stick to clean their teeth early in the morning, 
and spouting the spittle before their country fashion, 
invoking his blessing upon those who wish them good, 
and imprecating his anger upon those who desire 
their hurt, was given up by some of them at his 
speaking to them of the folly of so doing. He was 
the companion of Tshukuma and Aje, although he 
paid them due respect. 

Having found this favourable state of things in 
Aboh, I took the step to secure a parcel of ground for 
a contemplated Mission station, to prevent the spot 
being spoiled by the people, and gave Aje strict 
charge to keep the people away from it. My further 
proceedings in Aboh will be seen more fully in my 
journal to that place. I have furnished the Bishop 
of Sierra Leone with a copy of my journals to Aboh 
for his fuller information ; and I have suggested to 
Dr. Baikie the advantage of taking Simon Jonas to 
Sierra Leone, to give his Lordship verbal information 
of Aboh country from actual knowledge of three 
months stay among them. I have taken these steps 


xn 


PREFACE. 


from the instruction I had received from the Bishop, 
to ascertain what reception Native Teachers would 
meet with in Aboh should any be sent there. 

I regret much that none of those who accom- 
panied Mr. Jones* to the same place for the same 
object had been sent with the Expedition. 

I believe the time is fully come when Christianity 
must be introduced on the hanks of the Niger : the 
people are willing to receive any who may be sent 
among them. The English are still looked upon as 
their friends, with whom they themselves desire to 
have connexion as with the first nation in the world. 
Could the work have been begun since 1841, how 
imperfect soever it might have been, yet it would 
have kept up the thread of connexion with England 
and the countries on the banks of the Niger. God 
has provided instruments to begin the work, in the 
liberated Africans in the Colony of Sierra Leone, 
who are the natives of the banks of this river. 

If this time is allowed to pass away, the genera- 
tion of the liberated teachers who are immediately 
connected with the present generation of the natives 
of the interior will pass away with it also ; many 
intelligent men who took deep interest in the in- 
troduction of trade and Christianity by the Niger, 
who had been known to the people, have died since ; 
so have many of the chiefs and people in the country, 
who were no less interested to be brought in con- 
nexion with England by seeing their liberated coun- 

* The Rev. E. Jones, with three natives of the Ibo Tribe in 
Sierra Leone, attempted to reach the Ibo country in April, 1853, 
but found it unsafe to ascend the Niger without a steamer. Vide 
“ Church Missionary Intelligencer,” November 1853. 


PREFACE. 


XVll 


tiymen return. Had not Simon J onas been with us, 
who was well known to Obi and his sons, we should 
have had some difficulty in gaining the confidence of 
the people at Aboh at our ascent. 

It would be of very great advantage if the colony- 
born young men were introduced by their parents or 
countrymen to their fatherland ; it has many advan- 
tages which have not been sufficiently noticed. It 
cannot be expected that children born in the Colony 
should become acquainted with the countries and 
characters of the people so soon as their parents and 
countrymen. Though the parents are illiterate, yet 
if they are sincere followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
their service will be of much worth in introducing 
Christianity to their own people. They are brought 
back to their country as a renewed people, looked 
upon by their countrjonen as superior to themselves, 
as long as they continue consistent in their Christian 
walk and conversation, and do not disgrace them- 
selves by following heathenish practices. The lan- 
gnage of the people of Abbeokuta wdll be that of the 
natives on the banks of the Niger : “ Let those who 
come from the white man's country teach us and 
condemn our heathenish practices, we shall listen to 
them.’' It takes great effect when returning liberated 
Christians sit down with their heathen countrymen, 
and speak with contempt of their own former super- 
stitious practices, of whom, perhaps, many now alive 
woidd bear testimony as to their former devotedness 
in their superstitious worship ; all which he now can 
tell them he has found to be foolislmess, and the 
result of ignorance; when he with all earnestness, 


xvm 


PREFACE. 


invites them, as Moses did Hobab, Come with us, for 
the Lord has promised good to Israel : and all this in 
his own language, with refined Christian feelings and 
sympathy, not to be expressed in words, but evidenced 
by an exemplary Christian life. The services of such 
persons will prove most useful in the introduction of 
the Gospel of Jesus Christ among the heathens. Let 
such persons be employed as readers or Christian 
visitors, and thus they will gradually introduce their 
children into the country, who in course of time will 
be able to carry on the work more effectually ; as 
pioneers, we must not look for instruments of the 
keenest edge, anything that will open the path for 

future improvement will answer as well at the onset. 

* * * 

I shall entrust my journals to the care of Dr. 
Baikio, made up into a parcel with some specimens of 
translation of Doma or Araffo lansuaffe, and that of 
the Mitshis, not found among Koelle’s collection. I 
have also sent under his care a long red box, contain- 
ing curiosities from the river, which I hope will safely 
reach you. 

I remain. 

Rev. and dear Sir, &c. 

Samuel Crowtiier. 


PREFACE. 


XIX 


Dr. Baikie to the Kev. S. Crowther. 

Clarence, Fernando Po, 

November 28, 1854. 

My dear Mr. Croavther, 

After having been together for upwards of 
four months, closely engaged in exploring Central 
Africa, I cannot allow you to depart without express- 
ing to you, in the warmest manner, the pleasure I 
derived from your company, and acknowledging the 
information I have reaped from you. 

Your long and intimate acquaintance with native 
tribes, with your general knowledge of their customs, 
peculiarly fit you for a journey such as we have now 
returned from, and I cannot but feel that your advice 
was always readily granted to me, nor had I ever the 
smallest reason to I'epent having followed it. It is 
nothing more than a simple fact, that no slight por- 
tion of the success we met with in our intercourse 

with the tribes is due to you. 

* ^ ^ 

Our voyage has providentially terminated so far 
favoui’ably, and without loss of life. 

You are now about to return to the scene of your 
past labours, and to resume your share of the work 
for civilizing and regenerating a vast territory. That 
your labours may continue to meet with success, and 
that you may be spared to see your exertions bearing 
good fruit, is the earnest and sincere wish of 
Yours very faithfully, 

AV. B. Baikie. 


XX 


PREFACE. 


The prospects opened by this Expedition 
acquire an additional interest when viewed in 
connexion with the extension of the Yoruba 
hlission, which has already reached several large 
towns, connected by intercourse with the tribes 
on the banks of the Niger, at various points, 
extending many hundred miles from its Delta. 
In a journal, just received from Mr. Crowther, 
after his return to this Mission, he thus notices 
his visit to Ibadan, which is the most Easterly 
of the towns at present occupied by the Mission- 
aries of this Society. 

Extract from the Journal of the 
Eev. Samuel Crowther. 

Jan , 1855. 

“ I told Bolle, the chief of Ibadan, that I had 
lately returned from the Niger, and that I had heard 
of his soldiers being with Dasaba, in that neighbour- 
hood. He replied — Yes, that there were about 1,000 
Ibadan soldiers with him. I said, had we made 
arrangements to that effect previous to our ascent up 
the Tshadda, I would have returned by way of Rabba 
or Lade, with his warriors, through Yoruba to 
Ibadan. He said, certainly, that I could have done 
so, and that it might be done now from here to 
Eabba and Lade, on the banks of the Niger. With 
prudent management and means to effect it, how 
easily the road could be opened across the Yoruba 
country to the Niger ! The opportunity should be 


PREFACE. 


XXI 


embraced when we can get the aid of the chiefs in 
accomplishing such an object : it is much better to 
act in co-operation with them, than without them — 
tliey know their own interest in having Europeans 
for their friends, and with a little encom'agement 
they can be made use of in eftecting much in this 
country. 

The disposition of the people at Ibadan though 
warlike, yet is not unfavourable to peace and trade ; 
they are not worse than the Egbas of Abbeokuta, 
and I have seen even at Ibadan the eft'ect of the 
establishment of lawful trade at Lagos. Palm oil, 
with which Ibadan abounds, is a chief article of 
trade at this time, large calabashes full are conveyed 
through the Ijebu country to the coast, and others 
find their way to Abbeokuta, where it is sold to the 
Egbas, who convey it to Lagos, in their numerous 
canoes, by the Ogun river. 

Cotton is another staple article of trade, which will 
largely occupy the attention of the ])eople in general 
in this country : the extent of farms now under cul- 
tivation in cotton and other produce, though mci’ely 
for home consumption, was not known in Ibadan 
for many years back. How much will it be extended 
if they are a little encouraged, and a market is 
opened for then’ cotton. 

In order to take full advantage of the present 
opportunity, it is evident, as Mr. Laird has ])oint- 
ed out, that Her Majesty’s Governnient should 
assist in keeping open this great river-road into 
the interior of Africa, at least for a few years : 


XXll 


PREFACE. 


until the natives themselves shall become suffici- 
ently sensible of the advantages of lawful com- 
merce and the benefits of Christian Teachers, so 
as to co-operate, as among the Yoruba tribes, in 
maintaining a friendly intercom’se with their Eu- 
ropean benefactors. A meeting of a few of the 
influential friends of Africa has been already held 
in London, in July last, to confer with Dr. 
Baikie upon this subject — Sir T. D. Ackland, 
Bart., INI.P., in the chair, at which the following 
Resolutions were adopted : — 

That it appears to this Meeting that the opportu- 
nities of introducing civilization and Christianity into 
Africa, by the navigation of the rivers Niger and 
Tshadda, contemplated in the Expedition of 1841, 
are shown to be still most promising by the late Ex- 
pedition of 1854, and that they should be promptly 
improved by this country before they are closed by 
any change of circumstances, or taken out of our 
hands by other nations. 

That it is essential to the success of any plans for 
the attainment of this object by means of Native 
agency, that Her Majesty’s Government should estab- 
lish or promote the establishment of a regular steam 
communication between Fernando Po and the conflu- 
ence of the Niger and Tshadda rivers, in order that 
Native Traders may be assured that the way will be 
kept open ; and also that Her Majesty’s Government 
should, at periodical intervals, extend such communi- 
cation further up the two rivers, with a view to the 


PKEFACE. 


xxiii 

extension of geographical discovery, of commercial 
enterprize, and of religious civilization in the interior 
of Africa. 

That should Her Majesty’s Government accede to 
this proposal, there is every prospect of the comple- 
tion of the great and benevolent object in view, by 
the spontaneous commercial enterprise of liberated 
and other Africans in the various settlements upon 
the West Coast, and by the zeal of hlissionary 
Societies. 

The Board of Admiralty have kindly sanc- 
tioned the insertion of a Map of the course of 
the rivers, reduced by Mr. Arrowsmith from a 
larger Admiralty Chart, furnished by the Naval 
Officers attached to the Expedition. 

May the good hand of the Lord, which is 
evidently beckoning us forward in our efforts 
to reach these long isolated members of the 
human family, and to bring them within the 
circle of Christian civilization, direct and prosper 
all the measures which may be adopted for this 
end, and may He shortly establish His king- 
dom in this long-benighted region. 

Church Missionary House, 

October, 1855. 




M'- 


T-.-« ^ * m. i> & 




i<;ii.;.‘I j '/ *1 iiv rif cllivo .V i ^:Vt* ; • " ^ 

¦..•-'-iT- 




„ , A-l* 

fe.- ' J>i 


Ir “u 


I* ¦ V-J v- 1 . -Ji': ^ 




. 'iJil :;• '- ' - 

,' . 3 * -* •» 

: ;jI tu*'.': iA' 

' • '.i'J..'>U ¦ '* -JW 




¦-; : : -J.,,: ; 

f> -ili »'* ii »\i ..r»..»v 

r. molt r 

’ iilVij ' V *j i - ‘ • - J ' ^ - ¦ « ' ¦ • “ 


I rii M k'*! 






.¦{ 

^ ¦ 

¦, • ‘v 


¦% ¦ : ^' ' 

i*t ' 


. - ¦ lyv' » - 

't >v> ad l>iiiviK) 

i.li iMif.; ¦- t '¦' . t -j) 


••; ;-j _ ; ; ; , . r';i;i - ;f<;i . 

it VI. ¦ 

.:-;.rM .Al -¦ - . ' 

" . • .Ji ... i /.• 


>- 

V . ^ 




. V’.t' 


JOURNAL, 

(fee. &c. 


B 


4 


EMBARKATION AT LAGOS. 


June 17: The ‘Bacchante’ arrived this morning 
from Fernando Po, and brought the painful intel- 
ligence of INIr. Beecroft's death, which took place the 
night before she sailed. I felt this very much as 
the Expedition was just expected, and I knew no 
other person connected with it besides him ; this 
caused a little anxiety, but I resigned everything 
to God’s good and unerring providence. 

June 18: Sunday. Attended morning service 
in Mr. Golhner’s church, and in the afternoon at Mr. 
White’s house, where I heard Mr. Phillip address 
the congregation. 

June 19 : To-day was spent in making necessary 
preparations, and writing letters for England, against 
the arrival of the mail. 

June 20: The ‘Forerunner’ arrived about one 
o’clock P.M., by which I learnt that some of the 
gentlemen of the Expedition were on board of her, 
and that the ‘ Pleiad ’ would not touch at Lagos, 
but proceed direct to Fernando Po, so I prepared 
myself for embarkiug to-morrow morning. 

June 21 : About nine A.M., I embarked, and 
was very glad to meet Dr. Baikie, Dr. Bleek, and 
Mr. Dalton, a young zoological assistant, on board ; 
they kindly brought me letters from England and 
Siei’ra Leone, and parcels of books and many useful 
articles from Lady Buxton and Captain Trotter, for 
which I was very thankful. I was sorry to find 
Dr. Bleek rather out of health, but it was thought 
he might be better by the time we arrived at 
Fernando Po. There was also on board, the Rev. 
J. Diboll, with Mrs. Diboll and daughter, Baptist 


ARRIVAL AT FERNANDO PO. 


5 


missionary to Fernando Po : they were all veiy glad 
to see me. About half-past eleven A.M. the ‘Fore- 
runner* weighed anchor, and in a short time we 
lost sight of Lagos. 

June 22; Arrived off the Bonny river, where 
a ship was lying at anchor; the mail was left in 
charge of one of the passengers, who left the ‘Fore- 
runner’, and went on hoard of her : she Avas waiting 
for the pilot to take her across the bar next morning ; 
we made for Old Calabar. After crossing the bar 
we anchored for the night. 

June 23: Arrived at Old Calabar about eleven 
A.M ; as the mail was only to stop here a few hours 
I could not go on shore to advantage. Mr. W. C. 
Thompson, son of the late Mr. W. C. Thompson, 
linguist, in connection with the Church Missionary 
Society at Sierra Leone, took his passage in her 
for England, and the missionaries accompanied him 
on board ; about four o’clock p.M. we started, and 
anchored outside the bar. 

June 24) : Arrived at Cameroon river about 
seven p.m. The mails were delivered, and received 
that night. 

June 25: Sunday. Started as soon as it was 
light, and made for Fernando Po. It rained heavil}*; 
in consequence of which no service could be held. 
About four P.M. we anchored off Clarence, and found 
to our great disappointment that the ‘Pleiad’ had not 
yet arrived : various thoughts were expressed and 
conjectures made, as may be expected, as to the cause 
of iier non-arrival. I landed, and took my lodging 
at Mr. J. Wilson’s, the same house I occupied in 


6 


THE LATE MR. BEECROFT. 


1841 with Mr. Schon, in which we held divine 
service during our stay in the island. The people 
were very glad to see me, and expressed their regret 
for the loss of Mr. Beecjoft ; for he had made full pre- 
paration for the Expedition ; and had engaged many 
intelligent natives who had been used to go up the 
Niger with him, and who were ready to go any- 
where with him, they being mutually attached to each 
other, for he treated them as a father. It will be 
a long time before his place can be supplied by 
another, who will take the same interest in the 
country and her people as he did. 

June 26 : Took my boxes on shore to my 
lodging ; every one was on the look out for the 
‘Pleiadh After breakfast, visited Mr. Beecroft’s grave, 
which is on the point of the cliff of Clarence, imder 
a large cotton-tree, where he himself had directed 
that he should be buried. Thus ended the life of 
this useful person, after twenty-five years stay in 
Africa, during which period he had won the affection 
of many who knew his worth in the countries he had 
visited ; and could not but greatly regret to hear of 
his removal by death. The chiefs of Abbeokuta had 
sent salutations and messages to him by me, which 
he did not live to receive. As long as this gene- 
ration lasts, the name of Mr. Beecroft will not be 
forgotten in this part of West Africa. 

June 27 : The ‘Pleiad’ had not amved, and 
the ‘ Forerunner’ would not have waited any longer, 
had not Captain Miller, senior officer of Her Majes- 
ty’s squadron in the Bights, ordered her to stay 
till Thursday. 


AEKIVAL AND DEPARTUEE OF THE ‘PLEIAD.’ 7 

June 28 : The ‘Pleiad’ arrived this evenirig, 
to the great joy of all parties. 

June 29: The ‘Forerunner’ had been detained 
two days beyond her time, or she would have towed 
the ‘Pleiad’ off the Nun, in order to save fuel; 
she sailed away this evening with our letters for 
England. Dr. Bleek’s state of health being con- 
sidered by the medical gentlemen to be very preca- 
rious, he was pronounced unfit to accompany the 
Expedition, and was consequently sent back to 
England by the ‘ F orerunner.’ 

July 2 : Sunday. Held the morning service in 
Mr. Beecroft’s new house, which Mr. Lynslager had 
kindly ordered to be cleared out yesterday for the 
purpose : the service was well attended, both by 
resident Europeans and many from the ships in 
the cove, besides many of the Native settlers in con- 
nection with the Baptist Church ; Captain Miller, 
of the ‘Crane’ was also present. I preached from 
2 Cor. V. 1. 

July 3 — 7 : Captain Miller rendered every possible 
assistance to hasten the departure of the ‘Pleiad’, 
and as his help was no more needed, he sailed away 
to-day. 

July 8 : This afternoon, I embarked on board 
the ‘ Pleiad’, as she was to sail this evening. About 
nine r.M. we weighed for the Nun, with two large 
iron canoes laden with coals in tow ; the friends 
who accompanied us a short distance from the 
harbour left us with hearty cheers. As the wind 
rose, and the swell became heavy, the canoes did not 
tow well, and there was some fear of their being 


8 


CROSSING THE BAR AT THE NUN. 


upset : the night was, therefore, past with some 
anxiety. 

Juhj 9 : Sunday. Heavy rains : we were not 
much more than twenty miles from Fernando Po. 
The canoes continued to labour from the heavy 
swell and a strong current; the steamer could not 
go more than half her speed for fear of swamping 
the canoes. About noon, the spindle of the safety- 
valve gave way, and steam could not be kept up, 
so we could not proceed until it was repaired, which 
took three hours, and we were drifted eastward by 
the westerly current, with heavy swell and rains. 
Nearly all hands were sea-sick, no service could be 
held. 

July 1 0 : Off the mouth of the Bonny river ; 
our progress veiy slow ; the safety-valve out of 
order, in consequence of which we were many times 
short of steam. 

July 11 : Off the mouth of the St. John or 
Brass river ; anchored for the night between it 
and the mouth of the Nun. 

July 12 : About two P.M. with the flood tide we 
crossed the bar;* the ‘Pleiad’ was piloted by Mr. 
Thomas Richards, a Yoruba man, who had made 
many voyages up the Niger with the late Mr. Bee- 
croft, and has a good knowledge of the localities 
about the coast and the Niger. When we were in 
the midst of the bar, the hawser of one of the canoes, 
in which there were seven Krumen, broke, and as 

* In the former Expedition this same bar was crossed one 
month later in the year, \iz. August 13th : and a week was spent 
before the vessels began to aseend the river. Ed. 


SUNDAY ISLAND. 


9 


we could not stop to render her any assistance, she 
was left to make the best of her way through the 
surf, though not without great anxiety for the men ; 
for the surf was tremendous, so much so that it 
broke once over our poop, tliough the tide was in 
our favour : every eye was fixed upon tlie drifted 
canoe, and it was no small joy to see her now 
and then buoyed up from tlie deep furrow upon tlie 
top of the surf, following our track, till she got 
across in safety : — the iron canoes seem to ride very 
lightly upon the surf. About three o’clock we 
anchored inside the bar very near to Alburka Island : 
when the engineer came to examine the engine, he 
found that the safety-valve was just gone, and it was 
providential that we had got across the bar before 
this happened. 

July 13, 14 : These days were spent in re- 
pairing the engine ; and on the 15th, about six A.M., 
we got under weigh for the Niger. Louis’ Creek 
was found blocked up, so Mr. llichards took a 
boat to sound the next ci’eek, the ‘Pleiad’ waiting 
at the entrance. He returned about half-past nine 
A.M., and reported that he had found the channel. 
We started, with the tide still in our favour ; but 
about twelve o’clock we missed the right channel, 
and ran aground on the point of Sunday Island, 
the left passage having been taken instead of the 
right, which was the proper channel ; we could not 
get the vessel off this evening. 

July 16: Sunday. With the flood tide exertions 
were made, and the vessel was hove off about half- 
past eleven A.M. ; but before the shij) could be put to 

B 5 


10 


INDUSTRY IN THE DELTA. 


rights, it was too late to make any progress. I 
had service in the afternoon about two o’clock, and 
preached from St. John i. 22, 2-3. All hands well 
and cheerful. When we were lying aground this 
morning, a canoe was seen paddled down the river 
with produce ; another came alongside with four 
men in, unarmed, to see the ship, they asked whether 
she was a slave or oil ship : — they were answered 
‘ palm-oil ship.’ 

July 17 : We got under weigh abotit seven A.5r. 
and made good progress in three to seven fathoms 
water. Soon after we had cleared Sunday Island, 
traces of cultivation began to appear, together with 
land about three feet above the water’.s edge. As 
the water has not yet risen to its full height, it gave 
an entirely new appearance to the river, from that 
it bore in August 1811. At that time, only a few 
spots near the water’s edge were under cultivation, 
and the whole was covered with water, as the 
river overflowed its banks. Not only old planta- 
tions showed a continued industiy of the people of 
the Delta, but many newly-cleared spots, in the 
midst of which numerous lofty palm trees stood, 
which were carefully preserved for their rich and 
valuable ))roduce, showed further, the iinjnwed state 
of the banks. About three hours from Sunday 
Island, we came to inhabited villages ; we induced 
two canoes to come off, from whom we learnt that 
the people between Brass and Aboh are called Oru. 
One of the people who came off, and who spoke 
the Ibo language, was so confident, that he offered to 
go with us to Aboh ; and the people on shore, never 


UNHEALTHINESS OF THE DELTA. 


11 


showed the least sign of opposition, hut folded their 
arms and gazed at the steamer as she glided on. 
Fewer traces of cultivation were observed during the 
day till we came to the village of Angiama. Brass 
people come up here to buy palm-oil with large 
casks in their canoes, some of which they land as 
they proceed upwards. There is another striking 
change in the habits of the people themselves ; in 
1841, very few of them were to be found with any 
decent articles of clothing; I spied to-day, among a 
group of about forty people on shore, fifteen who I 
could distinctly see had English shirts on. This is 
an evident mark of the advantage of legal trade 
over that in men. The chief of Angiama, or Anya, 
came off, and expressed his regret, that we did not 
wait at his village, as Captain Trotter had done ; 
and it was with some difficulty that we could satisfy 
him by our excuses ; but we hoped to be able to 
stay on our return. Dr. Baikie gave him a red cap 
and a looking-glass ; but I could read in his coun- 
tenance, as well as by the temper one of his men 
manifested, that, if they had had it in their power, 
they would have detained us in Oru, to reap all 
the benefits of the trade to themselves, instead of 
allowing it to pass through their waters to the people 
of the interior beyond them. To-day’s voyage occu- 
pied eleven and a half hours. 

Since we entered the Nun, I have been thinking 
what could have made this river more unhealthy 
than any other, independent of the general un- 
healthiness of the climate. It occurred to me, that 
the evil might have partly originated in the Ex- 


12 


PROGRESS THROUGH THE DELTA. 


pedition itself, as nothing had been left undone, espe- 
cially in 1841, to ensure good health : that, probably, 
miasma may have been created by the raw and green 
wood for fuel kept in the bunkers for days together, 
and by the noxious exudation and vapour issuing 
therefrom, and by the mixture of chips and haik 
with the bilge water. I hinted this idea to Captain 
Taylor, Dr. Baikie, and Dr. Hutchinson, that a trial 
might be made of keeping the wood in the canoes, 
and only calling for it as occasion required : they 
all at once agreed to take every precaution which 
might be likely to conduce to health. 

July 18 : Got under weigh at seven A.M., and 
steamed past many villages on both banks; several 
canoes came off. The banks were about six feet 
above the water’s edge, at intervals, on both sides ; 
one is not impressed with the idea of a swamp by 
the sight of these higli banks. The wind was fresh 
and pleasant. About noon, we were ojiposite a 
gToup of villages on the left bank, where a creek with 
plenty of water entered the main river ; we followed 
it up about half-an-hour, but as it grew narrow and 
covered with green stuff and weeds, we returned ; the 
natives also told us that it was not the way to 
king Obi. As we were returning, we met two canoes 
which Avere following us, waving a white piece of 
cloth as a sign of peace. It appears this signal is well 
known all along the river, and a great way into the 
interior. They told us that the creek led into the 
bush, and into a very narrow passage, which they 
called a hole. They received some trifling presents. 
About three o’clock we were opposite the villages 


KING obi’s death CONFIRMED. 


13 


of Kalabal and Okoloba, where in 1841 the ‘ Wilber- 
force’ re-entered the main river, and a note was 
left for the ‘ Albert’s’ information. * Here we met 
a number of Brass people, traders in palm-oil ; they 
came alongside to sell live stock and provisions. 

July 19 : Got under weigh about six A.M. Our 
progress was rather slow, owing to a strong current. 
About noon we touched the ground on a point below 
Truro Island, and were about an hour in getting the 
vessel off ; at a short distance, the channel being 
missed above Truro Island, we ran aground again 
in the afternoon, where we stayed for the night. 
Several canoes came off: we asked them respecting 
Obi, whose death was confirmed, and it was stated 
that Aje, one of his sons, was now in his father’s 
room, but not recognised as his successor, until white 
men should come up and decide who should be 
king. This unexpected intelligence appears favour- 
able as regards the confidence they have in white 
men. It gave us time to think what it would be 
best to do, should the matter be brought before the 
commissioned officer for advice. 

July 20 : We remained aground until five P.M., 
and thus lost a day’s voyage. Some of the neigh- 
bouring chiefs of Oru came off, with whom we had 
conversation about legal trade, and in order to get 
it well established, we jDointed out to them the 
necessity of agreeing among themselves, never to 
molest English boats or canoes passing up and 
down the river, as that would prove detrimental to 


• See Schiin and Crowther’s Journal, p. 279. 


14 


AKRIVAL OFF ABOH. 


trade, and turn to their own disadvantage. Mr. 
Richards, who went to take the soundings this 
morning, returned in the afternoon, and confirmed 
the statement of the people ; he had been told higher 
up, that they were waiting the arrival of the white 
men who should decide who was to succeed king 
Obi. 

July 21 : We left at six A.M., and anchored off 
Aboh* at five P.M. The river has fallen considerably 
since June, as there has been no rain ; we had some 
showers and a few wet days, but not sufficient to 
effect a change in the rise of the river; but, how- 
ever, there was always sufficient water if the channel 
were carefully traced out. The ‘ Pleiad’ drew more 
than seven feet water. A gi-eat number stood at 
each village as we steamed past them, to gaze at 
the motion of the ship ; they missed the paddles, the 
‘ Pleiad’ being a screw ship, (which seemed to answer 
remarkably well,) so that the astonished villagers 
could not account for the power which propelled 
her onward against the strong current. 

The people of Aboh showed still some timidity, on 
account of the affair of the late Mr. Carr, concerning 
whom the ‘ Wilberforce’ came to make some en- 
quiries.f When IMr. Beecroft last visited this place, 

* In the journals of the foimer expedition, this name is written 
“ Ibo.” Ibo, or Igbo, is the name of a large country ; Aboh is 
a district and town situated in Ibo. 

t Mr. Carr accompanied the expedition in 1841, to super- 
intend the model farm at the Confluence, and was zealously 
labouring there for a short time, when he was taken ill with fever. 
The medical men deemed it necessary to take him on board the 


THE MURDER OF MR. CARR. 


15 


I believe in 1845, be went on shore to invite people 
on board before any would come off; and as they 
had been informed by mistake that he died three 
years ago, they did not know who the captain was, 
hence their shyness to come to the ship. After 
some hesitation, a canoe with five men came off to 
us with two yams, which were bought for one empty 
bottle : other canoes kept close to the beach at a 
great distance. The men who sold the two yams 
appeared to be strangers from Oru, and could not 
speak Ibo well. On their return, they brought an 

“ Albert,” on her return to Fernando Po. There he was soon 
restored to health, and being anxious to return to his post, he 
proposed to leave Fernando Po for the river Bonny, and proceed 
to the Confluence, by hiring a native canoe and crew. And 
when her Majesty’s ship “ Pluto ” left for that river, he availed 
himself of the opportunity, and took a passage in her, together 
with his native servant. At Bonny he succeeded in obtaining a 
boat manned by some men who were strangers at the place, and 
who promised to take him as far as Aboh. They left, but from 
that time nothing more was heard of Mr. Carr, nor of his servant, 
and there can be no doubt, but they were murdered for the 
sake of plunder. Some articles of clothing, seen either at Aboh 
or near it, supposed to have belonged to Mr. Carr, gave rise to 
the suspicion, that Obi had been implicated in the matter. The 
good feeling previously e.xisting between him and the British 
officers was interrupted, and some acts of hostility committed on 
both sides. From Mr. Crowther’s remarks we may gather, that 
those unpleasant feelings had not quite subsided, and that but 
for the good services and explanations of Simon Jonas, the 
expedition might have met with some obstacles at Aboh. The 
officers of the present expedition are convinced that Obi had 
no concern hi Mr. Carr’s death. I have always believed, that 
if Mr. Carr had reached Aboh, he would have been safe in 
Obi’s hands ; and that, if ho met with a violent death, it toolc 
place, m all probability, soon after his departure from Bonny. 
The late Mr. Beecroft cntcrtahicd the same opmion, — J.F. Schun. 


16 


DISPUTED SUCCESSION 


Aboh man alongside, who was evidently sent to see 
who we were. He would not come on board. Simon 
Jonas was therefore sent in their canoe to inform the 
chief that we were come. Before he reached the 
creek, a Haussa man, who was an old servant of 
Mr. Lander, named after himself (Aliheli Lander), 
was sent to inqiihe who we were, and to say that the 
chief was disappointed that the captain did not fire 
to announce his arrival. Aliheli accompanied Mr. 
Lander to Fernando Po and back, speaks English, 
and was subsequently employed by Mr. Beecroft in 
his voyages up the river, and is well known to 
many people where the vessels touched. He was 
slave to king Obi, but got his liberty at his master’s 
death, as it appears, for his good services to him. 

From Aliheli, we learnt correctly that since Obi’s 
death there h§s been some dispute as to his suc- 
cessor. There is another party besides the line of 
Obi, Osai’s family, which lays claim to the throne ; 
that is the line of Oshiodapara. Obi’s eldest son, 
who has a right to the throne, is Tshukuma, other- 
wise called Okorobi, but he appears to lack energy, so 
that Aje his younger brother, an active man, took the 
lead, as it appears, with the approbation of Tsbu- 
kiima : but the line of Oshiodapara contended for the 
throne in favour of one Orise,* and demanded that if 
Obi’s family would not give place to that of Osbio- 
dapara, whatever they had paid to Obi as their king 
should be returned : so it appears the matter rests 
at present. Aje heads one party of the town, called 


The final e pronounced as a broad open vowel. 


TO THE THRONE. 


17 


the king’s party, and Orise tlie other party, called 
Oshiodapara’s party. It appears both parties are 
at peace. Unfortunately Aje and Orise were not at 
home on our arrival, but absent at Igara, to which 
place they had gone some ten days before, to settle 
some dispute which had taken place between the 
Atta’s subjects, on which occasion, a woman of 
Oshiodapara’s family was accidently killed. We 
sent Simon Jonas* to tell Tshukiima that we in- 
tended to pay him a visit the next morning. 

July 22 : Took an early breakfast, and about 
eight A.M. we started for the tomi of Aboh, which 
lies about one mile in length along the western bank 
of the creek, very thickly populated. We landed 
close to Tshukuma’s house, which was very small and 
confined ; his old house having been lately burnt. 
He had been worshipping his god that morning, 
which we saw in his piazza, in a calabash placed in 
the front of a wall, covered with a white sheet. We 
waited about ten minutes before Tshukiima made his 
appearance, di’essed in a pair of thin Turkish trousers, 
a white shirt, a white waistcoat, and a string of 
coral beads about his neck: he is smaller in size 
and stature than Obi, his father, is very soft in his 
manners, and seems not possessed of much energy. 
He shook us all heartily by the hand, and in a short 
time the little square was crowded to excess, so that 
there was no room to move ; and the place became 
so thronged, that it was difficult to keep one’s seat on 
the mat spread for our accommodation. Tshukiima 

* Simon Jonas is a native of the country, and was employed 
in the Expedition of 1841. 


18 


INTEKVIEW 


used all his efforts to command silence, but to no 
purpose. Obi’s daughter and the chiefs’ wives took 
their turn to command silence, but it only increased 
the noise. At last, Tshukiima requested us to frighten 
the people away, which of course we did not do. 
As it was impossible to obtain perfect silence, 
I suggested to Dr. Baikie to begin business, as we 
could manage to keep close enough to hear each 
other. 

The substance of Dr. Baikie’s Interview with 
the chief was, that the Queen had desired him to 
visit them, and see how they did ; that we were 
sorry to hear of Obi’s death ; we hoped his suc- 
cessor would be of the same mind as the late Idng, 
and that they still adliered to the treaty he had 
signed with Captain Trotter, who acted in the name 
of the Queen ; and that trade was now come to the 
Aboh country, about which Dr. Hutchinson would 
speak fully with him. Tshukuma replied, that he 
was very glad to see a large ship come to Aboh 
again, and that he and the other headmen were par- 
ticularly charged by Obi, before his death, not to 
deviate from the path he had trod, respecting his 
fi’iendship with the w'hite men, and that they would 
act accorchngly; but as Aje was absent from home, 
in Igara, with a great number of the headmen, to 
settle some matter in that place, he expressed a wish 
that we would wait till they retiumed, as he expected 
them in three or four days’ time, and he would send 
a canoe to hasten their return. To this we objected, 
because w'e were in a hurry to go up to fetch down 
some white men, who were waiting for us in the 


WITH TSHUKUIMA. 


19 


interior.* Tsliukuma said, the fault was not with 
tliem, but with the white men themselves ; that many 
times promises of trade had been made to them, but 
never fulfilled. I told him that the English had it 
much in their mind to fulfil their word, but could 
not do so till now on account of sickness. Tshukiima 
replied, Had they not gone further than Aboh, they 
would not have been taken ill, and been obliged to 
return to the sea so soon as they were. 

I now thought it time to introduce the subject 
of a Missionary establishment among them. I told 
him that we had come to see what we could do to 
make a Missionary station at Aboh, as we had done in 
my country at Badagry, Lagos, and Abbeokuta, and 
has been done also at Calabar and the Camaroons. 
One of Obi's daughters replied, that they could not 
conceive why white men should build houses in 
Bonny and Calabar, and not in Aboh ? I told them 
that our superiors have been thinking of it a long 
time, but now they are in earnest, and are very 
desirous of sending some Ibo teachers to Aboh, to 
reside there, and teach them many things, if they 
are willing to learn. Tshukiima said, my words were 
too good for them to hope that they will be realised, 
and that he would not believe any thing until he 
had seen us do what we proposed ; that there was 
no difficulty on their part, nor need we fear any 

* NVIien the Expedition left England, it was hoped that Dr. 
Barth and Dr. Vogel, who have penetrated Africa from the 
north, might have been able to meet the ‘ Pleiad.’ But sub- 
sequent accounts have shown that neither of them could have 
been in that neighbourhood at the time, even if Dr. Barth still 
survives. 


20 


SEVrON JONAS 


unwillingness to receive those who may be sent to 
them or learn what they may be taught ; but that 
the fault rests with us in not fulfilling what we 
promised to do. 

To show that I was in earnest in what I had 
said, I told him that I woiild leave Simon Jonas with 
him till our return, and that when Aje and the other 
chiefs came back, we would talk the matter over 
more fully. He was very glad to hear of my inten- 
tion to leave Simon Jonas with them. After this, we 
asked his permission to walk about the town. He 
himself accompanied us to Aje’s house, which was more 
capacious, drier, and better built than his own, in 
squares. We sat down there a while, on mats spread 
on the floor for its, and soon after left for the town. 
The river was greatly fallen, in consequence of which, 
the only street which runs parallel with the creek was 
free from water, but moist, and it gave us the advan- 
tage of walking to a considerable distance, crossing 
many gutters formed by the washing of the earth of 
the cross streets into the creek. In this long street, 
canoes are paddled to the very doors of the houses 
at high water. It is very much to be regretted that 
such a thickly-populated place as this is not better 
situated ; however, this should not be an objection to 
answer the call, “ Come over and help us their 
willingness to receive teachers, and to be instructed, 
amounts to such a call. The chief said, I should 
see at my return the driest spot which would answer 
our purpose. Tshukuma being invited on board, he 
returned home to make ready, and we returned to 
the ship about half-past ten A.M. A short time after. 


REMAINS AT ABOH. 


21 


the chief came on board, accompanied by his head 
¦wife, Aje’s head ¦wife, and three of Obi’s daughters. 
Captain Taylor had some talk with him about trade, 
and took him, and his male and female followers to the 
saloon, where they were invited to lunch, which they 
seemed to enjoy very much ; after this, Di*. Baikie 
gave pi’esents to himself and to his female attendants. 
He engaged to cut wood for us, which he promised 
we should receive in the afternoon, but he was unable 
to fulfil his promise, on account of the short notice, 
and his people not being near at hand. Tshukiima 
never mentioned that there was any dispute among 
them relative to their politics ; so we, of course, 
appeared ignorant of the matter, but the frequent 
mention of the king’s party confirmed the report of 
the existence of differences among them. 

July 23 : Sunday. Had service on board at half- 
past ten, and preached from St. John i. 29. The 
boat was just ready for me after service, to go on 
shore, to see and speak a few words with the chief 
on religious subjects, and also to ask his permission 
to address the people in the town, when his canoe 
appeared from the creek, with numerous attendants, 
so I postponed my going till his return; but he re- 
mained so long on board, that there was no prospect 
of his soon going away. When Captain Taylor had 
done with him, I took the opportunity to speak with 
him at length on the subject of the Christian religion, 
Simon Jonas interpreting for me. The quickness 
with which he caught my explanation of the all- 
sufficient sacrifice of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, 
for the sin of the world, was gratifying. I en- 


22 


THE GOSPEL PREACHED 


deavoured to illustrate it to him in this simple way. 
“ What would you think of any persons, who, in 
broad daylight like this, should light their lamps to 
assist the brilhant rays of the sun to enable them 
to see better?” He said, “It would be useless ; they 
would be fools to do so.” I replied, “Just so that 
the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was 
sufficient to take away our sins, just as one sun is 
sufficient to give light to the whole world : that the 
worship of country fashions, and numerous sacrifices, 
which shone like lamps, only on account of the 
darkness of their ignorance and superstition, though 
repeated again and again, j^et cannot take away 
our sins : but that the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, 
once offered, alone can take away the sin of the 
world. He frequently repeated the names, “Oparra 
Tshuku ! Oparra Tshuku ! ” Son of God ! Son of 
God ! As I did not wish to tire him out, I left my 
discouree fresh in his mind. The attention of his 
attendants, with the exception of a few, was too much 
engaged in begging and receiving presents, to listen 
to all I was talking about. I gave 'i'shukuma a 
Yoruba primer, in which I wrote his name ; and left 
some with Simon Jonas, to teach the children, or any 
who should feel disposed to learn, the Alphabet and 
words of two letters. Tshukiima and his attendants 
were perfectly at home in the steamer, and it was 
not till a gentle hint was given them, that the gentle- 
men wanted to take their dinner, that he ordered his 
people to make ready for their de])arture, at half-past 
four oniock. He desired Simon Jonas to accompany 
him in his canoe, but I told him that I would 


TO TSHUKUMA. 


23 


send him afterwards. He gave Captain Taylor one 
bullock, seventy yams, and two hundred pieces of 
fii'e-wood. Simon Jonas was sent on shore in the 
evening with a supply of four thousand cowries and 
seven fathoms of cloth, for his subsistence till our 
return. 

July^4t: Could not start this morning till nine 
o’clock, in consequence of having lost a kedge ¦with 
a hawser, the latter rather an indispensable article ; 
after nearly three hours’ fruitless search, we moved 
onward on our voyage. Our progress was very 
slow to-day. In consequence of the strong current, 
we missed the channel and got into shoal w'ater, 
touched twice, and were obliged to drop back, and 
anchored below Bullock Island. Mr. Richards went 
to find the channel. We passed a few villages on the 
right side of the river, and some large canoes from 
the market passed alongside of us. Tlie country was 
open here, and the wind was fresh and pleasant. 

July 25: Got under w'eigh at about six A.M., 
and came opposite the group of villages of Ossa- 
mare or Awsimini, on the left bank. This place is 
said to be the resort of traders between Aboh and the 
Elugu and Isoama tribes of the Ibo country. If this 
he correct, taking also the open state of the country 
from this locality and upwards into consideration, it 
presents one of the best situations for a Missionary 
establishment among the Iboes. I shall make it a 
point to land and learn more of this place on our 
return. The great number of peo])le along the bank 
to look at the steamer, tells the thickly populated 
state of this part of the country; and a great 


BULLOCK ISLAND. 


24- 

number of well-looking bullocks wbicli were seen on 
the sancl-beacb, a little distance from those groups of 
spectators, speaks in favour of the industry of the 
people. I believe that from this the Bullock Island 
took its name. Steaming was slow and tedious, 
owing to a strong cui’rent and zigzag passage from 
point to point to avoid shallow water, and numerous 
sandbanks. A little after six we anchored off a 
district of Ibo villages, called Okoh, on the right 
bank ; a lake of water was seen at a httle distance 
before we came to anchor : the country is very open. 
We had passed two villages on the left bank before 
we came to anchor, for we steered on the right 
bank. The villages are Osutshi, and Akra Atani. 

July 26 : Started this morning about half-past 
seven o'clock, passed several groups of the people of 
Okoh, their villages being scarcely visible from the 
river, with the exception of a few fishing huts. About 
ten A.M., some rocks were seen on the left bank, and 
the country began to present an undulating appear- 
ance. Shortly after, a group of about five hmidred 
people burst into view in Onitsha market, on the left 
bank, trafficking by the water-side, with a great 
number of canoes ; we steamed past them, as we were 
desfrous, if possible, of getting to Adamugu before 
evening. Onitsha is the last market-town belonging to 
Aboh, on the left bank ; a little while after we came to 
the Asaba market on the right side ; they consider it 
the same as Onitsha, but no trade was going on, and 
about half-past two P.M. we unfortunatelv struck on 
a bank between Walker and Long Islands; we came 
suddenly upon it, having just sounded three fathoms. 


ODE CREEK. 


25 


when the bow struck in four feet water : and mth all 
the efforts we could make the vessel could not be got 
afloat that evening. Mr. Richards took the boat and 
went to sound about Walker Island, and returned 
late in the evening. 

July 27 : After breakfast, Mr. Richards went to 
take soundings again. At noon the ship was afloat, 
and at half-past one P.M. we got the steam up, 
weighed, and passed Ode creek on the left bank, 
where there were some canoes ; — this place is said 
to belong to Aboh. At seven P.M. we anchored 
opposite a place where the situation of the village 
Uto was pointed out, but it was not visible from the 
river. The navigation of the river from Aboh to this 
place requires verj* great cai’e in crossing from point 
to point, on account of many banks which stretch 
across the centre of the river, leaving the channel 
very close to the shore. It was on such a bank, 
slightly covered, that we struck after sounding three 
fathoms ; many of them being visible to-day, we 
passed them more cautiously, by sending a boat 
a-head to find out the rio;ht channel : with this ex- 
perience, we hope to be able to proceed more suc- 
cessfully during the remainder of our voyage. When 
the Expedition came out in 1841, either these banks 
had not accumulated, or they were completely under 
water as the river was much higher then, so that the 
vessels went over all. 

July 28 : Weighed at six A.M., and in aboiit an 
hour we came opposite the first village of conical huts 
on the left bank, called Ommodomo, Children’s 
Children ; ” it being the village of Adarnugu given 

0 


26 


THE TOWN OF ADAMUGU. 


by the Atta, or chief of Idda, to his daughter as the 
inheritance of her children. Mr. Richards told me 
that Dasaba Nufi, king of Lade, brought his forces 
down to this place when he contemplated attacking 
the inhabitants of the Delta, to revenge the murder 
of Mr. Carr. I shall relate the particulars respect- 
ing Dasaba’s expedition hereafter. We commenced 
speaking with the people here in Yoruba as well 
as in Haussa, because there are Yoruba and Haussa 
slaves in this neighbourhood. About nine A.M. we 
came opposite the town of Adamugu, where one 
oblong and three round huts were seen near the 
water-side, on the left bank ; the town itself being a 
little way inland. From Onitsha market to Ada- 
mugu, the banks presented at times the appearance 
of mud walls, about si.x feet high from the water’s 
edge. The interior of the country now and then as- 
sumed an open appearance. Fi’om Onitsha mai’ket to 
Adamugu the country is very thinly populated, and 
appears low and swampy in many places. We were 
steaming rapidly on, and every one was in hopes of 
getting near Igara this evening, when, unfortunately, 
we took a channel which had been blocked up, and 
as we were returning to find another, the ship stuck 
fast in one fathom water. With all our efforts for 
the whole afternoon, she could not be floated off. 

July 29 ; The labour of getting the ship afloat 
was resumed, but without success till about four P.M., 
when she dropped down to the middle of the stream, 
and lay there at anchor. After dinner, a party of 
us landed on the beach of a sandy island, abreast 
of wdiich we had grounded, to take a little exercise, 


AERIVAL AT IDDA. 


27 


while the ship was dropping down. We rejoined her 
about seven p.m. The country is open, and the 
weather cool and pleasant ; the nearest village below 
us is Ami-Doko, a few miles above Adamugu. 

July 30 : Sunday. As the men had laboured so 
very hard from Friday till late on Saturday, we 
remained quietly at anchor to-day, and had service 
at half-past ten. I preached from Matt. vii. 13. 
Several canoes came alongside, as on other days, to 
sell provision and cloths, but they were sent away, 
as it was the Lord's-day, in which we do no work. 
This they seem to understand as soon as they are 
told it, because Mr. Beecroft in his many voyages up 
this river told them the same. 

July 31 : Got under weigh this morning at half- 
past six. About nine we came abreast of LandeFs 
Island, whei’e the inhabitants of Oko Idoko and 
Abijaga, on the point of the first island, were seen 
on the bank, gazing at us as we passed. About 
five P.M. we anchored some little distance off Idda 
for convenience of wooding. Two messengers were 
immediately despatched to announce our arrival, and 
to tell them that we would pay the Atta an early 
visit the next morning. This precautionary step was 
taken to remove every shadow of excuse from the 
Atta, that it was contrary to custom to see strangers 
on the day of their arrival in his country. 

August 1 : I had already told the gentlemen 
to prepare for a hard day's work, for it causes more 
trouble to see the Atta than any other chief we have 
yet met with : accordingly, we partook of an early 
breakfast, and taking some lunch with us, started for 

c 2 


28 


THE CHIEF EHEMODINA. 


Idda about seven A.M. On landing we saw no- 
thing of our messengers, but proceeded to tlie town, 
and there met one of the king’s eunuchs, of whom 
we made enquiry concerning them. Without tel- 
ling us directly where they were, he led us to the 
house of Ehemodina, an elderly chief, and a relative 
of the late Abokko, so favourably spoken of in 
Lander’s and Oldfield’s journals, and to whom the 
Landers were indebted for the preservation of their 
lives in their exploration of the Niger. Abokko’s 
family has ever since been considered, by right, the 
agent through wdiom all white men must be intro- 
duced to the Atta. In tliis place we met our mes- 
sengers, wdio had been detained since last night, till 
messengers should arrive from English Island, where 
an army of about five hundred men were en- 
camped, to encounter the party of one Agabidoko, 
their ojiponents. It was nearly noon before the 
expected messengers arrived, and from the severe 
rebuke one of them received from the chief, it 
appears that he had delivered a wrong message. 
Ehemodina then told us, that we could not see the 
king before to-morrow. We told him we could not 
wait so long, as we were in a hurry to ascend the 
river. He said he was in a difficulty ; for he did not 
like us to go to the king without the consent of 
Abokko’s son, or else Abokko’s name would be dis- 
honoui'ed. He then asked whether we should like 
to go to English Island and see Abokko’s son 
there, that he might send some one to take us to 
the Atta, and promised himself to accompany us to 
the river side. To this w'e consented, as we had 


THE ATTA OF IDDA. 


29 


determined to see the Atta to-day, and not be un- 
necessarily detained, and accordingly, Eliemodina 
ordered his old, but very poor white mare to be 
saddled. As we kept him briskly engaged in con- 
versation, he had no time to go in to dress himself 
for the ride, so he called for his dresses, and put them 
on where we were sitting, and started with us im- 
mediately. We had to retrace our steps nearly a 
mile to the river’s edge, where we embarked for 
English Island, distant about two miles, to the 
point where Okeyin, Ahokko’s son, was encamped 
with about five hundred men. We were led to his 
shed, and immediately commenced business. He 
wished us to stay till to-morrow before seeing the 
king ; but we objected to this, and told him that we 
had taken the trouble to come to him, and to give 
him the honour due to him, that we might be able to 
accomplish our object to-day. lie thought it would 
he proper that tlie ship should come near first, 
before we saw the Atta. I told him that the ship 
was taking in wood, and we came to do business 
at the same time ; besides this, it would make no 
difference to the Atta whether the ship was near or 
far ; for when Captain Trotter brought four ships 
here, thirteen years ago, and invited the Atta oii 
board, he refused to come, because, he said, “ the 
king never goes into a canoe.”* After a pause, he 
wished us to show him what we were going to give 
the king. I told him it is not the white man’s 
fashion to show to others what he intends giving 
to his friend, and applied the case to themselves, 

* See Schon. and Crowthei’s Journal, p. 86. 

C 8 


30 


VISIT TO THE ATTA. 


asking them, if I were going to give a needle to any 
of them, whether it would he right to exhibit it to 
everybody. I added, that we did not know what we 
might be disposed to give to any person, until w'e 
had proved him by the w'ord of his mouth and his 
conduct ; and that if he deserved it, I might be 
disposed to give him the jacket off my back. Here 
they were put to silence. Oti, an intelligent-looking 
man, w^as immediately called to accompany us to the 
Atta, and Okeyin promised to get some eatables ready 
for us against our return ; so we started again for 
the town, and took our lunch in the boat as w^e 
went along. Immediately on landing, we met a band 
of drummers and a fifer, who began to play; and 
Otf, the messenger, gave us a dance, flinging his 
sheathed sword in the air, which he caught with 
precision, and shook it towards us to signify what 
an expert man he was. This reHved our party a 
little, for they seemed somewhat weary in walking 
up and down the hill of Idda from morning till 
the afternoon, while nothing apparently had as yet 
been effected. Oti led us again to the hoiase of 
Ehemodina, from which place we started for the 
king’s palace, nearly a mile further up the hill. 
After many zigzag turnings, and passing many low 
doorways and porches, which followed one another 
m a manner too irregular to be described, we were 
stopped at a small opening to await the Atta’s 
invitation. It would be superfluous to state the 
inconvenience experienced from the closeness of the 
place, increased by the assembled crowd. Mats were 
at length produced, but the floor was so uneven 


HIS FANCIFUL ATTIRE. 


31 


that sitting was as uncomfortable as standing. A 
pot of bamboo wine was sent in for our refresh- 
ment, but it was so sour that none of us could 
drink it, and it was given to the spectators, who 
enjoyed it much. A calabash of good cold water 
was brought, which was refreshing. We waited 
about an hour and a half, I need not say with 
much impatience, but with this consolation, that 
the business once over to-day, it would not be re- 
peated to-morrow. At last we received the welcome 
message that we wei’e called in by the Atta. We 
found him sitting outside the verandah of the pa- 
lace, on a mud-bank overspread with cloth, with 
an old carpet at his feet ; on the carpet were placed 
his royal message sticks, with brass bells attached 
to them ; and an old broken Souter-johnny jug stood 
before him. He had on a silk velvet tobe, and a 
crown of white beads, fringed with red parrot-tails 
in the front, with other fanciful decorations. Ilis neck 
was covered with a large quantity of strung cowries, 
and coral and other beads. It was the same Atta 
visited by Captain Trotter in 1841. After the usual 
custom of paying and receiving homage from his 
subjects, he asked the Europeans to shake hands 
with him, which they did ; after which, I and Mr. 
Richards were asked to do the same ; we then took 
our seats. lie expressed his joy at seeing white men 
in his country again. We communicated with him 
through the medium of Ilaussa and Igiira inter- 
preters ; Aliheli interpreted for us in Ilaussa, and 
one of the Atta’s men, who spoke Ilaussa, repeated 
the words to him in the Igara language. Dr. Baikie 


32 


CONFERENCE 


hav ing instructed me what to say, because Aliheli 
could understand me better, I commenced by remind- 
ing the Atta of the visit paid to this place thirteen 
years ago by four ships, and told him that Captain 
Trotter was still living ; that the Queen, who sent 
Captain Trotter at that time, has now sent Dr. Baikie, 
accompanied by Messrs. May and Dalton, to ask after 
bis welfare, and to see whether the country is at 
peace, and the Atta as well disposed now as at that 
time ; that the Queen has not forgotten him, nor the 
treaties she had made with him through Captain Ti’ot- 
ter. He replied, that he remembered Captain Trotter’s 
visit perfectly well, and that all things remained 
just as they were at that time. He was reminded 
that Captain Trotter had promised that traders would 
be sent to deal with him. Dr. Hutchinson was then 
introduced as a merchant who was come to trade 
with him ; upon this he ordered his attendants to gi\'e 
shouts of approbation, and expressed his great joy at 
the news. He said the place which Captain Trotter 
had selected for a trading establishment at the Conflu- 
ence was not a suitable one, being too much out of 
the way, and liable to be disturbed by the Filatas ; 
and that he would rather advise the merchants to 
establish themselves at Idda, or at Ikiri market, which 
is so near that when a stranger was living there, 
he would be able to send a messenger every morn- 
ing to ask after his health, which he could not do if 
he lived at the Confluence. I admitted the truth 
of what he said, but told him to consider that white 
men are very sensible, and always take right steps 
to accomplish their objects. I asked if any per- 


WITH THE ATTA. 


33 


son were to be troubled with boils on his foot, whe- 
ther it would alleviate the pain, to apply salve to 
his head"? He replied, No. I said, — Well, in order 
to prevent future disturbance by the Filatas, the 
Queen has sent some gentlemen to go by land from 
the north to the Sokoto, Bornu, and Haussa coun- 
tries, to make treaties of peace and commerce with 
those nations, and to tell them, that not only they, 
but all the countries on the banks of the Niger 
and Tshadda, such as Ibo, Ig<dra, and Nufi, are 
their friends, and that they should not be disturbed. 
To this they all gave shouts of approbation. He 
was told that two of those gentlemen were in the 
interior, and that the ship would start to-morrow to 
meet them and take them on board. When the Atta 
heard that the ship would start to-morrow he was 
displeased, and said it must not go till some trade was 
done here first. I then asked him how he thought 
a man should act when he hears that his companion 
is carrying a heavy load on his head, and is weary 
of his journey? Would he say, let me first go to 
the market and sell all my goods, before I go to meet 
and help him ? He said. No. I told him the case 
of our friends in the interior was just so. He then 
urged for five days stay, alleging that the water 
has not yet covered all the rocks; and promised to 
send some one to accompany us. He was told that 
it was better for us to go higher up before the rocks 
were covered, and that if we stay later, the water 
will not wait five days for us when it begins to 
subside. He at last pressed for to-morrow, as he had 
something to trade with, and eventually six hours. 


Si DISTURBED STATE OF IDDA. 

that is till noon, was promised for this purpose. I 
next reminded him of another subject Captain Trot- 
ter had brought before him, namely, whether he 
would allow his people to learn the white man’s 
book, and to embrace their religion, as they teach 
it in other countries ; telling him that I was parti- 
cularly sent to ascertain his disposition in this respect. 
He said, he remembered the proposal, and was as 
willing as before. The presents were then given, and 
about half-past five p.m., as it threatened to rain, the 
Atta withdrew, and we returned to the water-side 
just before dark, much satisfied at having accom- 
plished this most disagreeable task. The political 
state of Idda at this time, like other places, is be- 
coming confused by divisions and party quarrels. 
This proves that the power of the Atta is waning, 
and he may not be able long to retain his authority 
over a great part of his subjects, if these party quar- 
rels are not soon put an end to. Since the death of 
Abokko, so frequently mentioned by the Landers and 
Oldfield in their journals, the town of Idda has greatly 
suffered; a great portion of the population, chiefly 
Abokko’s party, have left Idda, and parts of the town 
they used to occujiy are overgrown with luxuriant 
grass, which gives the town a very deserted appear- 
ance. Those who left the town are residing all 
along the left bank, from Adamugu, a great way 
towards the Confluence, hence the number of villages 
which go by the name of Abokko, or some one or 
other of his children. It is said when the present 
quarrel is settled, Okeyin and his party will quit the 
town of Idda. 


OUPv INTEUFEREKTCE REQUESTED. 35 

The present dispute, which caused Okeyin to 
encamp on English Island, is thus related: — Some 
quarrel originated at Asaba market near Onitsha, with 
one Agabidoko, whose father was an Igara by birth, 
but his mother an Ibo. Agabidoko’s people, for some 
offence given, attacked Abokko’s people in the market, 
when several of the latter were wounded and killed. 
By way of retaliation, Abokko’s people seized a wife 
of Agabidoko, and kept her in custody at Idda. Aje 
undertook a journey of ninety-five miles from Aboh 
to settle the matter, but he could not obtain an 
interview with the Atta, though the path was cleared 
for him from the palace to the water-side. It would 
seem that as Abokko’s people are the most powerful 
at Idda, the Atta was afraid to offend them, but 
whatever might be the reason, Aje had to return 
unsuccessful. A few days after Aje’s return, Aga- 
bidoko’s people made war against Abokko’s people, 
but had a bloodless battle, the latter being on the 
island, and the former on the river, and on their 
departure they took five Idda canoes away with them 
from the water-side; — in this state the matter still 
remains. When we were waiting at Ehemodina’s 
house, he expressed his wish that we should interfere 
in settling the matter between the two contending 
parties ; and he was told that, if the Atta should seek 
advice from the commissioned officer, or request him 
to act as a peace-maker between them, he would 
have no objection to do so. But the king never said 
a single word on the subject, and even when parti- 
cularly asked whether the town and country were 
at peace, he answered in the affirmative. 


36 


THE ATTA’S daughters. 


August 2 : As we could not call at English 
Island yesterday to report the result of our inter- 
view with the Atta, we sent the messenger to tell 
Okeyin that we would call on him when the ship 
came near in the morning. We anchored close to 
the town, at the point of the cliff, to land some 
coals and to trade with the people till noon. A great 
number of people soon came alongside, and the 
‘Pleiad’ was full of them. I accompanied Dr. Baikie 
to English Island with some presents for Okeyin, 
Ehemodina, and Oti the messenger. In return, 
Okejdn gave the Doctor two goats, and about forty 
yams, and we returned on board. Two of the Atta’s 
daughters came to see the ship ; they were shown 
into the saloon, and something was given them to 
eat, but they were too bashful to partake of it. Oti 
took care to wrap it up carefully for them to take 
away ; and they received presents from Drs. Hutch- 
inson and Baikie, and I added two small glass 
plates, sent me by Lady Buxton, with which they 
were highly pleased. At half-past one P.M. we 
weighed, and steered very close to the cliff on which 
the town is situated, which presents a very romantic 
appearance, and is said to be about one hundred and 
fifty feet above the river. We proceeded about ten 
miles, and experienced some difficulty in finding the 
right channel; getting frequently into shoal water, 
from banks being a-head in various directions, in 
consequence of old channels being blocked up and 
new ones formed. Mr. Richards took the boat to 
sound, when the ship dropped anchor for the night. 

August 3 : Got under weigh about six A.M. ; 


AMA-ABOKKO. 


37 


and after some difficulties, we at last found the right 
channel, and made a good progress, the river be- 
coming more contracted, and consequently deeper. 
We anchored abreast of Soracte mountain for the 
night. The people showed some timidity at first, 
but by persuasion they came on board with some 
ivory. The left bank of the river is now more thickly 
populated than in 1841. In consequence of the 
invasions of the Filatas, all the inhabitants of the 
right side have removed to the left, and built their 
houses upon the mountains as places of refuge. The 
right bank is more easily accessible to those marau- 
ders, but they would have difficulty in crossing the 
river before they could gain access to the mountains, 
as their chief strength lies in their many horses 
with which they chase this poor and defenceless 
people. No one who beholds it can conceive how this 
mountainous country can be unhealthy; the wind 
was fresh and pleasant, and every one seemed to 
enjoy it much. Many rocks which were covered 
when we were here in September 1841, are several 
feet above water, which shows that we must yet 
expect a greater rise of the river than at present. 

August A : Got under weigh as usual, but when 
not more than a mile from the Confluence, the 
‘Pleiad’ stnick on a bank immediately after sounding 
three fathoms, opposite the town of Igbegbe. While 
they were heaving her off. Dr. Baikie, Mr. May, 
hir. Richards and myself, landed at the town, to see 
the chief and collect some information. We were led 
into the house of Ama-Abokko, the principal chief 
in this district. He is the eldest sou of the late 


ss 


DASABA. 


Abokko of Idda, and brother of Okeyin, who was 
encamped on English Island. Ama-Abokko received 
us very kindly, and admitted us to the back piazza 
of his private apartment, where he seated us ; and we 
told him the object of our visit to the Niger at this 
time. Ama-Abokko was not at this place when the 
Expedition was here in 1841, and the town was very 
small then; but since Dasaba’s invasion of the right 
bank, a great many of the inhabitants of that part 
of the river have fled to this place, and to other 
localities on the left side, for security. The inha- 
bitants of Mount Patteh were obliged to give up their 
stronghold, because Dasaba distm’bed them for two 
years. Ama has not received any intelligence about 
the white men who are travelling in the interior. From 
him we learnt, for the first time, that Panda (Fundah 
of Laird) was destroyed by the Filatas only three 
months ago, that the Idng was killed, and that the 
Filatas were about Toto, for whose safety he ex- 
pressed much doubt. At our request he promised to 
send some messengers with us to tell us the names 
of the villages and places on the banks of the 
Tshadda as we ascend ; and we invited him on 
board the next morning. Here also was confirmed 
information which we had received at Adamugu, that 
Dasaba was driven out of Lade by his brother near 
Rabba, because the Nufi people preferred him to 
Dasaba, the latter being too tyrannical for them, 
and putting many people to death unmercifully 
for trifling offences. Dasaba has fled to Ilorin for 
refuge. 

Mr. Richards, who accompanied Mr. Beecroft to 


DASABA. 


39 


Rabba in his last visit to that place in 1845, informed 
me, that Dasaba had told them when at Lade, that 
his expedition towards the Delta, was to revenge the 
death of Mr. Carr ; that king Obi of Aboh had sent 
to inform the Atta of Igara of the conduct of the 
inhabitants of the Delta, who had killed the white 
man coming to establish trade with the upper country, 
and that something must be done to keep the road 
open for free communication between them and 
the white men : that the Atta not having sufficient 
power to do this, sent to him as one concerned in 
the matter, and powerful enough to keep the road 
open ; and that he promised to bring a large force of 
horse and foot, provided the Atta would furnish 
canoes to take them across the creeks and rivers. 
Accordingly Dasaba brought down a large force, and 
encamped for a considerable time at the model farm : 
the Kakandas joined his army, and they marched 
downwards as far as opposite Adamugu, when Dasaba 
commenced his attack seaward, at which time about 
one hundred towns and villages were destroyed, 
but being afraid of losing many of his men and 
horses in the swamps, he returned. But as they liave 
no principle to restrain their cupidity in time of 
war, the remainder of the Kakandas who had not 
taken timely warning to flee for safety to the left 
bank out of the way, fell a prey to Dasaba’s soldiers 
on their way home. Thus nearly all the right bank 
of the Niger, from opposite Adamugu to the Con- 
fluence, has scarcely a village to be seen, while the 
left bank is full of new and extensive towns and 
villages, which were not tfiere in 1841. The very 


40 


MOUNT PATTEH. 


mention of Dasaba’s name is odious in the ears of 
the natives about the Confluence. 

August 5 : Started early this morning with Drs. 
Baikie and Hutchinson, and IMr. May, to go to the 
top of Mount Patteh. Mr. May wished to sketch 
from that elevation, of about twelve-hundred feet, 
the juncture of the Kowara and Tshadda, but owing 
to the desolated state of the country, the valley 
was so overgrown with wood and high grass, as to be 
impenetrable, except where we came upon the track 
of elephants, now the undisturbed possessors of 
these once thickly populated districts. As we could 
not go on because of the thick grass and swamps, we 
returned to the boat and pulled further up, till we 
came to a landing-place, where a small canoe was 
seen under the trees, belonging to a small village of 
eight or ten huts, a scanty remnant of the once 
secure villages of Mount Patteh. This village is 
built on the first cone, about a third part of the 
way up Mount Patteh, where very old persons 
only were living. W e asked them the way to the 
mount, but they told us there was no way thither 
at this time, as Dasaba had driven or carried all 
the inhabitants away. The sight of these villages 
was truly pitiable. They pointed to the site of the 
Model Farm below, which is now covered with trees 
and grass, and asked if we were coming to rebuild 
it. I told them it might be taken up again in due 
time. They entertained us, according to their means, 
with Country beer and clean cool water, which they 
fetched from the side of Mount Patteh. We pro- 
mised to give them some presents if any of them 


VISIT TO THE TOWN OF IGBEGBE, 


41 


would come on board, and returned to the ship about 
ten A.M. 

Ama-Abokko, the chief, had come early on board, 
and Captain Taylor had been talking with him about 
trading affairs till our return. Dr. Baikie called him 
into the saloon, and gave him some presents from 
Government, with which he was much pleased. We 
tried to get him to forward letters to the coast for us 
by way of Ilorin, Ijaye, Ibadan, and Abbeokuta, but 
he made so many excuses, that I evidently saw he 
was afraid to do it, though he did not like to say so, 
for fear of committing himself, because people might 
accuse him of sending a bad book or charm through 
Ilorin, as Dasaba their common enemy has taken 
refuge there ; and he did not sufficiently know us 
and our footing on that part of the coast. We 
reminded him of the person he promised to send 
with us, and told him also, that we would hire some 
of his canoe men, if he would let us have some, to 
which he consented, and raised our expectation as to 
his readiness. Ama-Abokko styled himself the king 
of this part of the country, and I tried to ascertain 
whether he was independent of the Atta, but could 
receive no satisfactory reply to my question. I dare 
say he did not like to tell us. That we might see more 
of the town and collect information, we went after 
twelve to Igbegbe, each one in a different direction, 
except that Mr. iliehards and myself went together. 
Ivory was shown us as well as trona, (salt packed up 
in grass bags from the coast,) horses, and two slaves. 
I offered to purchase one of the owners herself, instead 
of the slaves, but she shuddered at the idea. I left 


42 


THE TWO PATTAS. 


her to infer from that the propriety of dealing in 
our fellow-men. Some slaves were in a canoe along- 
side the ship to-day. It is not to be wondered at, 
that many slaves are seen about just at this time, 
for many unfortunate persons who have suffered in 
the war between Dasaba and his brother, and such 
as have fallen a prey to the Filatas at the destruc- 
tion of Panda, are now scattered about the country in 
all directions by their captors. Fortunately, they 
must remain in the country, as there is no place 
known in the Bight of Biafra for exportation of 
slaves, the only foreign slave-markets being Whydah 
and Porto Novo, in the Bight of Benin. 

From the town of Igbegbe is visible that of Patta, 
about two miles distance. There are two places of 
this name, the first, near the left bank of the Tshadda, 
the other, between the first Patta and Tshewu. The 
first Patta and Tshewu are at w'ar with Igbegbe, 
and soldiers come by stealth from them and shoot 
people, or catch them at Igbegbe and run away. I 
believe these two Pattas are inhabited by the people 
of Mount Patteh, who have taken refuge on the 
banks of the Tshadda. The chief, Ama-Abokko, 
never mentioned the circumstance of there being 
war between them, but always said there was peace. 
We retmned on board about sunset. 

August 6 : Sunday. Had service on board at 
half-past ten : preached from 2 Tim. L 7 , on the 
former part of the text : “ God has not given us the 
spirit of fear,'' and applied it to individual members 
of Christ’s Church, but I preached in much weak- 
ness ; may the Spirit of God carry Ilis word home 


THE SABBATH HALLOWED. 


43 


to the heart and consciences of those who heard it ! 
The people here speak the Igbira language, and 
we had no one who could speak directly to them. 
Our communication was carried on, either through 
the medium of Yoruba or Nufi, or through the 
Haussa language, before it was interpreted to the 
chief in Igbira. As this mode of communicating is a 
very inconvenient one, I was afraid of making use 
of persons who have not the least idea of the 
spirit of what I intend to communicate; and to 
attempt to convey any notions of the Christian 
religion through such channels would, I feared, lead 
to misconception. There are but few traders and 
inhabitants who can speak Haussa, Yoruba, or Nufi : 
the people in general speak the Igbira language. 

The people were told yesterday, that to-day would 
be Sunday, or our sacred day, in which we do no 
business. They did not, therefore, come for trade, but 
a few small canoes brought beer and some eatables, 
which were purchased by the Krumen. 


CHAP. II 


ENTRANCE OF THE TSHADDA — SINCERITY OF AMA-ABOKKO — THE 
FILATAS — DESTRUCTION OF PANDA — lYANPE — THE BASS A 
COUNTRY AND LANGUAGE— CONSULTAT ION ABOUT TURNING 
BACK PASS DAGBO, THE TERMINATION OF FORMER EXPE- 

DITIONS — DOMA — BLIND REPORT OP TWO WHITE MEN IN 
THE NEIGHBOURHOOD — THE MITSHI TRIBE — ORIGIN OF THE 
CHARGE OF CANNIBALISM — IGARA TRADITION — DETENTION 
AT O.TOGO— CHARACTER OF ZURI — KEANA AND ITS KING — 
ARRIVAL OFF KOGAN KOTO — SUSPICION OP THE NATIVES 
AT GANDIKO AND GANKERA REMOVED BY CONFIDENCE. 

August 7 : Having laid in a sufficient stock of 
green wood, we got under weigh about eight A.M., 
under green wood steam. The channel was very 
intricate : — after a long zigzag passage at the mouth 
of the Tshadda we got into four and five fathoms 
water, with very slow progress, and hardly made 
eight miles direct from the Confluence, because the 
steam could scarcely be kept up for an hour together, 
and the anchor had then to be dropped while it was 
got up again. 

August 8 : About eight A.M. we weighed anchor, 
but in about a quarter of an hour the steam failed, 
and we were obliged to drop it again. It was im- 
jjossible to accomplish our object at this rate, two 
days having been wasted merely for want of proper 
fuel to keep up the steam ; and if the Krumen were 
sent on shore to cut wood again, it would be as* green 


ENQUIRY AFTER DR. BARTH. 


45 


as before. Dr. Baikie, therefore, myself, and Mr. 
Richards, landed at a small village called Atipo, 
a little way higher up, where we saw plenty of 
dry wood in the town ; we told the natives to take 
it to the water-side, and returned to the ship to 
tell Captain Taylor of our discovery, and to know 
if he would purchase it. One of the iron canoes 
was soon paddled thither, and in about three hours 
she returned deeply laden with dry and substan- 
tial firewood, which we hoped would enable us to 
move onward in our voyage. Several enquiries were 
made to-day of Dr. Barth, but no news was heard of 
him. In the evening a canoe came alongside from 
Ama-Abokko with seven persons, two of them being 
headmen ; one of the headmen, Zuri, spoke several 
languages, and was a native of a town on the bank 
of the Tshadda, which pays tribute to Panda, and 
also to Wukari. This man will, we hope, be of great 
use to us as we ascend the Tshadda. We had 
thought that Aina-Abokko was not faithful to Ids 
promise, but we were wrong ; and his sending his 
own canoe to overtake us after two days" sail from the 
Confluence, against a strong current, corrected our 
erroneous surmises as to his sincerity, because he 
was not able to fulfil his promise at the moment we 
looked for it. The native chiefs always take more 
time to think and arrange their plans and settle their 
affairs than we are aware of We are very thankful 
to have these men with us, speaking Igara, and 
Igbira, or Panda, they being natives of the banks 
of the Tshadda, and as Zuri can speak Ilaussa, we 
hope to be able to collect much information. 


46 


FILATA DEPREDATIONS. 


August 9 : Got undei’ weigh about half-past eight 
A.M., and anchored abreast Little Harriet Island at six 
P.M., the steam having been kept up sharp and brisk 
under a mixture of dry and green wood. The Tshadda 
presents in appearance the same expansive sheet of 
water, as did the streams of the Kowara and Tshadda 
united, and contains a good depth of water, and 
has been of easy navigation hitherto. The chfF 
on the right bank of the river, on which the village 
Ogba is situated, is covered with luxuriant jungle, 
called Frenchwood in Allen’s chart of this river. 
The name of the inhabitants on both sides of the 
river is Igbira, to whom the land of Panda belongs. 
The Atta, many years back, sent one of his sons to 
reside at Panda, which was tributary to the king, and 
this son ultimately became its sovereign. The bound- 
ary of Panda, in other words, of the Igbira country, is 
between Oketta and Abatu, the latter being the first 
village belonging to the Bassa country near the river 
side. Here we began to meet recent traces of the Fi- 
lata depredations ; the inhabitants of Ogba, on French- 
wood cliff, were obliged to take refuge on Harriet 
Island, on account of the Filatas, fearing lest, after 
the capture of P anda, they might attack them also. 

August 10 : Started about eight A.M., and arrived 
at Yimaha, on the right side, about noon, where 
we dropped anchor to get wood. Here again the 
inhabitants have been obliged to quit their town, and 
to take refuge on the opposite island, where they 
have built temporary sheds to escape the depre- 
dations of the Filatas ; who, not content with the 
destiaictiou of Panda, and molestation of Toto, 


DYEING CLOTH. 


47 


covet tlie poor and defenceless inhabitants of Ogba 
and Yimaha in their avarice. We landed on the 
newly inhabited island, in which there must have 
been a thousand people. We were led to the quarter 
of Ozineku, their chief, a very aged man, seventy 
years old, if not more. We told him the object 
of our visit, and made enquiry after Dr. Barth, 
but no intelligence could be gained. Dr. Baikie 
told the chief to send messengers on board, that 
he might give him some presents. Leaving the 
island, Ave landed on the right side at the town of 
Yimaha, which was deserted three months ago. Here 
we met a few men who w'ere keeping a look out for 
the enemy, and at the same time were occupied in the 
process of dyeing their cloth blue ; an art, which is 
professed by men in this part of the country instead 
of women, as in the Yoruba country. Upon landing 
we saw recent traces of the Filatas ; only last night, 
a horseman and six foot soldiers were sent to see 
if the inhabitants of Yimaha could be easily 
taken away. The spies finding the tOAvn deserted, 
Avent through it, even to the water’s edge, where 
they stopped some time — quite recent traces of 
their horses being visible. One can better feel than 
express in words the distressed state of these poor 
people, who are continually harassed and hunted 
by the Filatas, the greatest pests of this part of the 
country. They will not work themselves, and those 
Avho will they disturb and seek to enslave, eating 
up at the same time the fruits of their industry. 
The hunters of elephants and collectors of ivory, 
are either killed in their attempt to defend their 


48 


TREACHEROUS CAPTURE 


country and families, or are prevented through fear 
from going about their lawful occupation ; and thus 
not only is the country disturbed, but the European 
markets are left unsupplied. The men led us to the 
house of the chief, and told us that the gentlemen 
of the former Expedition resided there. We pre- 
sumed that Messrs. Lander, Laird, Oldfield, and Allen, 
were meant, who were here in 1832 — 34. While wood 
was being bought, some tusks were purchased also. 
We weighed about half-past four, and anchored 
above Potinkia (Potingia) creek for the night. 

August n ; Got under weigh about half-past eight 
A.M. Before noon we were in shallow water, and 
grounded off a small village, called Kende, on the 
left side, but the vessel was got off again after a little 
exertion : a part of the engine, however, called the 
donkey, was damaged, so that we could make no 
further progress for the day. In the afternoon we 
landed at Kende, where some of the few who escaped 
seizure by the Filatas at Panda have taken refuge. 
Here again is a picture of the misery these poor 
people are doomed to go through ; for they live 
destitute of every thing, having escaped with scarcely 
any thing but their liberty, and that with difficulty. 
The Filatas, whose aim is not so much to kill as to 
seize and enslave, took Panda by treachery. They 
professed friendship, and entered the town on that 
pretence, and the king presented them with bullocks 
and other necessaries ; but uffien a sufficient number 
had got in, they commenced seizing the inhabitants, 
and scarcely gave them time to make resistance. 
Only the king, Oyigu, and a few persons about him 


OF PANDA. 


49 


made any effort to repel them ; but the king could 
not long stand against his enemies, and was killed 
in the attempt. A great number were caught, and 
very few were so fortunate as to 6scape. The neigh- 
bouring towns and villages were immediately deserted 
by the inhabitants, who took refuge on the left side 
of the river, klere we met with a son of the chief 
of Potinkia (Potingia), who remembered having seen 
the white men on their visit to this river many 
years ago. We find the usefulness of having Abok- 
ko’s men with us ; the people would not come near 
us, until these men had told them who we were, and 
assured them that they would not be hurt. They 
then took confidence and came on board. 

August 12 ; After breakfast I went to the beach 
with Dr. Baikie and Mr. May, to receive a lesson 
from the latter in taking observations. Captain 
Pl otter was kind enough to send me a quadrant by 
the “ Forerunner ” for the purpose, and I hope it 
may be of use to me hereafter. In the afternoon we 
went to the village and distributed a few cowries 
among the poor inhabitants, who were very glad to 
receive them ; a few yards of unbleached calico would 
have proved a great boon to them, if I had had any 
to distribute among them. Dr. Baikie amused the 
children by strewing some cowries, for which they 
scrambled. 

August 13 : Sunday. Preached from 2 Tim. i. 
7., the latter part of last week’s text. May the 
Spirit of God apply the word to each and all our 
hearts. 

August 14: Got under weigh after breakfast 

D 


50 


THE BASSA LANGUAGE 


There continues to be a good depth of water, though 
the channel is at times intricate. The villages which 
we passed to-day are called lyanpe on the right side, 
and Irigi further inland, and others, not seen, are 
called Betikia and Lesebu. Three villages are known 
by the name of Oketta on the right side, but the 
inhabitants have taken refuge on an island opposite 
for fear of the Filatas. A little while afterwards we 
came opposite the neat village of Amaran, on the left 
side, situated on the east side of the foot of Mount 
Pleasant, very appropriately so named. The village 
of Amaran could not have been there when Mount 
Pleasant was named, or it would have been noticed. 
We anchored abreast of Bay Island for the night. 

August 15 : This morning we spied a few natives 
in a small opening in the bush on the right side. They 
were armed with bows and arrows, in readiness to 
repel aggression. Ama-Abokko’s messenger called to 
them, as they were within hearing, to persuade them 
to come off, but they would not ; he said they were 
Bassa people, whom he called Kaferi — wicked 
arcliers, who had hired the Filatas to destroy Panda, 
and are, therefore, held in great hatred by the Igbira 
and Panda people, to whose king they were tributary. 
This marauding tribe have destroyed towns and 
villages in Panda, and even to the westward of Panda, 
beyond the confines of their own district, which lies 
to the eastward of Panda. 

The Bassa language is very much like the Nupe, 
with some little variation and peciiliarity, as may be 
seen in klr. Koelle’s “ Polyglotta Afficana.” * The 

• “ Polyglotta Africana ; or, a comparative Vocabulary in 


AND COUNTRY. 


51 


village of these Bassas, abreast Bay Island, on the 
right side, is called Abatu, but it is not visible from the 
river. Here is said to be the bemnning of the Bassa 
country. Three or four miles from our anchorage 
brought us to the village of Abatsho, on the left side 
of the river; here we anchoi’ed, and invited the 
natives on board. Three chiefs came off, whom we 
found to be Irobo, Itshigbasa, and Allagaba — the two 
former were sons of the late old king of Panda, 
Abuha, who was visited by Mr. Laird ; — Allagaba 
was the chief of Potinkia. They were all taking 
refuge here on account of the destruction of Panda. 
Abuha was succeeded by his brother, Adekke, who 
reigned thirteen years, when Oyigu, who was lately 
killed by the Filatas, became king. Irobo has now 
taken the headship of the village of Abatsho. En- 
quiry was made of Dr. Barth, but nothing was heard 
of him ; but they told us that in all probability we 
might hear of him in Akpoko, a village near the 
river, in the country of Doma, where Haussa people 
come to trade from the interior. Presents were given 
to these poor chiefs who were very glad to receive 
them. I encouraged them to hope for better days, and 
said that though the Filatas, their near neighbours, 
prove to be their enemies, yet God will raise them 
kind friends and well wishers in white men from a far 
conntry. A Haussa woman, named Asatu, came on 
board, and was recognised by ^Ir. Richards as one 
of the traders who used to be employed by ]\Ir. 

more than one hundred distinct African Languages,” bj' the 
llcv. S. W. Koelle, Missionary of the Church Missionary Society. 
London, 1854. 

D 2 


52 


CONSULTATION AS TO KETUENING. 


Beecroft, and wlio used to receive goods in large 
quantities at the Confluence, to sell for shea butter 
and ivory, when Mr. Beecroft ascended the river. 
She was very glad to see a steamer up the river 
again. Dr. Baikie gave her a looking-glass. We 
weighed from Abatsho, and anchored a few miles 
higher up. 

August 16 : Got under weigh as soon as steam 
w^as up. The passage continued intricate ; we had 
nearly reached Oruko, when we fell into shoal water 
and were obliged to drop astern to clear out of it, and 
anchored till the channel could be found. After- 
wards, several attempts were made to proceed, but 
without success. The Bassa people, who had been 
driven from their towns by the Filatas, have taken 
refuge on the island, and on the left side of the river. 
They were exceedingly timid, and no wonder the 
sight of so large a body as the steamer on their 
waters was enough to frighten them, as they have 
alrearly been placed in continual fear by the Filatas, 
the enemies of all. 

August 17 : After nine A.M., Captain Taylor, 
accomjianied by Dr. Hutchinson, and Mr. Guthrie, 
the chief engineer, went to sound the river, and 
did not return till the evening. The captain de- 
clared it was impossible for the vessel to proceed 
further. On this Dr. Baikie, wishing to persevere 
in the attempt, took entire charge of the ship. 
It would have been a great pity not to have gone 
further, as we had come thus far, and were still 
eight or ten miles below Dagbo, the furthest point 
reached by Oldfield and Allen; so that the new 


DAGBO. 


5li 

groiind to be explored by this Expedition would only 
commence from that place. The health of all in 
the Expedition having been so mercifully preserved 
hitherto, every one felt a desire to go onward as 
far as practicable. 

August 18 : Dr. Baikie having now charge of the 
ship, ordered the steam to be got up, and about seven 
A.M., we were under weigh, having sent Mr. Richards 
previously to sound the channel. About ten A.M., we 
passed the most intricate part of the river, opposite 
the town Oruko, whose chief Adama, is said to be 
king of all the Bassa country. He sent one of his sons 
with a goat to Dr. Baikie for a present, and wished 
the vessel to stop and trade with him ; but said that 
he had only ten tusks of ivory to sell, the Filatas 
having wasted all his property at the destruction of 
the country. Dr. Baikie sent him a message to wait 
till our retnm, when we hoped to pay him a visit, 
and trade with him also. Some presents were sent to 
him by his son, with the message, that he should 
warn all his subjects never to molest any white man's 
boat or canoe that may be passing up and down at 
any time through his waters. This message was 
necessary, because the Bassa people are much dreaded 
by native traders, on account of their thievish j)ro- 
pensities. About noon, we anchored off Dagbo, the 
termination of Oldfield’s and Allen’s exploration in 
18.32 — 34, where we remained and wooded during 
the evening. The old town, Dagbo, appears to 
have been deserted, and the inhabitants have re- 
moved close to the river, to a piece of land nearly 
surrounded by a creek, which affords them good 


54 


THE DOHA DISTEIGT. 


security against the ravages of the Filatas. Dagho 
appears to be the beginning of the Doma district 
and language. The scattered groups of huts which 
form the village present more the appearance of farm- 
houses than anything else. A great extent of land 
has been cleared, and planted with Indian and 
Guinea corn for the people's sustenance. They ax-e 
very poor, and consequently had nothing to trade 
with. 

August 19 : ]\Ir. Richards was sent early this 
morning to sound the channel, and as soon as steam 
was up, we got under weigh and followed. After 
much perseverance we cleared the intricate channels, 
and got into a fine sheet of deep water extending to a 
considei’able distance, when we came again amongst 
groups of islands, which occasioned fi’equent shoals. 
We passed the villages of Egy and Igei*e, on the 
right side, Agatu on the left, and Joko, on an island. 
These people are called Kafeii, or “ wicked archers,” 
from their disturbance of the water passage. About 
four P.M., we anchored off Akpoko, a very small 
village in the valley of the Doma hills. The ship 
touched the gi’ound sevei’al times, but was always got 
off by backing the engine, or by the men going aft 
and dancing her off. As soon as the ship came to 
anchoi’, Drs. Bailde and Hutchinson, Mr. Dalton and 
myself went on shore. The town is accessible thi-ough 
a fine opeix creek at the foot of the hills, though 
invisible from the anchorage. The people at first 
showed some timidity, having never seen white men 
before ; but when Zuri spoke the Igbix'a and Haussa 
languages to them, they became confident. Many of 


THE CHIEF OF AKPOKO. 


55 


the people understood Igbira as well as Haussa. On 
landing, we were led into the chief’s house, where we 
stood outside for a few minutes, till he came and 
invited us in. He was an old man of small stature, 
hut respectable appearance. He was dressed with a 
decent country cloth around his waist, and wore a 
country shirt of patchwork pattern, of blue and white, 
cut in triangles, of native manufacture and work- 
manship, except the fi-inge on the borders, which 
was cnt out of red woollen cloth of European manu- 
factm’e. He had a red Turkey cap on his head. 
Mats having been spread for us, after the usual 
salutation and customary compliments from Zuri and 
Mahamma, our interpreters, they delivered the mes- 
sage of Ama-Abokko and introduced us to the chief. 
Dr. Baikie told him the object of our visit, and made 
enquiry after Dr. Barth, of whom we expected to 
hear news in this place. But no intelligence of any 
European traveller has reached this country. Ma- 
gaji, the chief, acknowledged that Doma is subject to 
Bello of Sokoto ; but, as governor of the water-side, 
he would acknowledge no superior, and said that 
every chief rules his own district, of which there are 
many in Doma. He answered questions respecting 
the government of the country with much reserve, 
especially respecting the Filatas ; which shows, I 
think, that if it wore possible, they would eagerly 
throw off the Filatas’ yoke. We wanted to know 
the distance of Wukari, but received no satisfactory 
reply. 

No sooner was the subject of trade introduced, 
than six tusks were immediately produced, and 


56 


CUSTOMS OF THE COUNTRY. 


Magaji was very anxious for the ship to wait till 
to-morrow, when he promised that plenty more should 
be brought. But as Dr. Baikie had determined to 
start early to-morrow, so much time having been 
already lost, they were requested to send on board 
what they had in hand. Nine or ten tusks were 
brought and purchased that evening. The chief is 
saluted by kneeling on the ground, the forehead 
is inclined, and two fingers of both hands are 
rubbed in the dust, and dust rubbed on the forehead 
several times. The people salute owe another by 
embracing, the right hand of the one being stretched 
parallel with the left of the other as far as the 
shoulders, or with both arras occasionally. The 
religion of the place is Paganism, for there were some 
fetishes under the trees, in front of the cliiePs house. 
The A’illage compi’ises no more than forty conical 
huts, including the granary; and yet it is fortified 
with a ditch about twelve feet deep, and mud walls. 
The gate is entered by a drawbridge of three poles 
laid across, and is rather dangerous for passengers. 

August 20 : Sunday. Got under weigh at six 
A.M., the river much improved, there being fewer 
islands. Before ten, the vessel touched immediately 
after sounding the great depth of seven fathoms ; slie 
was hove off by backing the engine, together with 
the exertions of the men walking aft and dancing. 
We anchored, and had service at half-past ten. 
From constant excitement in entering an unexplored 
country, and other causes, which occupied much of 
my time, I could not complete my sermon : I there- 
fore read the fii’st and second parts of the nineteenth 


DEPOPULATED STATE OF THE BANKS. 57 

Homily on Prayer, fhe subject I bad taken in hand 
for the week. The most disagreeable effect of sailing 
on Sunday is, that it keeps the Krumen continu- 
ally at work, cutting and splitting wood for fuel 
from morning till evening, together with fi’equent 
touching in shoal water, when all hands must run 
aft to dance the ship afloat. This interferes much 
with the sacredness of the day. When I thought 
how mercifully we had been preserved since our 
entering the river, now five weeks, no Eui’opean 
having been laid up for a week, I could not free my 
mind from the apprehension of our inciu’ring God’s 
displeasure by distrusting Ilis providence, in thus 
desecrating His holy day, in order to accomplish our 
objects, how noble soever they might be. In the 
afternoon, we got under weigh and passed the villages 
of Otia on the right side, and Aghadumo on the left, 
and Ayati and Zuwo on the right. At the approach 
of the steamer, the inhabitants of Zuwo quitted their 
village, and no trace of human beings could be 
seen, except the goats and fowls which they had left 
behind them. 

August 21 : Got under weigh about six A.M. 
After touching several times in shoal water, about two 
P.M. the ship ran aground ; but with much exertion 
she was got afloat and anchored for the night. The 
country appears very thinly populated hereabouts. If 
this appearance arose from the fear of building too 
near the banks, because the river overflows them 
every year, we should have seen, at least, landing 
places as we passed along, but there was a total 
absence of such. The villages actually seen were 


58 


OJOGO. 


very few, compared witli those on the lower parts 
of the Niger, or the Kowara branch. The country, 
for tlie most part, is open, though at times wooded, 
and occasionally clusters of fine lofty palm-ti’ees 
occur, which show, by the old branches or leaves 
hanging down from the head of the trees, that the 
natives do not trouble themselves to gather the nuts 
for their use. Scarcely any trace of cultivation was 
seen along the banks, to relieve the eye. In the 
night we had a heavy shower of rain, accompanied 
with thunder and lightning, which cooled the atmos- 
phere, for the sun had been oppressively hot of late, 
and the river had fallen considerably. We had had 
no rain, till last night, since we left Idda three weeks 
ago. 

August 22 : Got under weigh about six A.JI., 
and after many slight touchings and heaving off by 
backing the engine, at 12 A.M. we ran into shoal 
water, and grounded about a mile or so below the 
village Ojogo, to which we had been looking forward 
as a place to anchor at, and get wood for fuel. With 
great efforts the ship was got afloat by half-past six 
P.M., but could not clear the shoal that evening. It 
was with much persuasion from Zuri, our interpreter, 
that the natives were induced to come on board ; two 
or three canoes afterwards brought some wood and 
fowls, which were purchased from them. Their 
canoes are very small, and are propelled by large 
long paddles, in a standing posture. We made en- 
quiry of Dr. Barth, but obtained no intelligence. 

August 23 : Early this moniing the chief of 
Ojogo sent messengers to enquire after our health 


REPOET OF WHITE MEN AT KEANA. 


59 


and to show us the channel ; but as they had no idea 
of the draft of our ship, their offer was not accepted. 
While the steam was being got up, Mr. Richards was 
sent to sound the channel ; and on his return about 
eight A.M., he brought the welcome tidings, that 
on his making enquiry, he was told that two white 
men were not far from this neighbourhood, in a 
town called Keana, about four days’ journey to the 
northward. I need not mention that every one on 
board was much rejoiced by this intelligence. We 
got under weigh, and after much trouble, the ship 
cleared the shallow bank, where we had been actu- 
ally locked in. In a short time afterwards we an- 
chored off the village Ojogo, situated on the point 
of an island, on the right side, formed by a creek 
which separates it from the main land. We imme- 
diately sent messengers to inform the chief of our 
arrival, and that we would pay him a visit soon. On 
the return of the messengers, we mi.de ready for the 
village, but a great many of the inhabitants, and 
especially the females and young persons, were terri- 
fied, and fled from the village into the bush among 
the palm-trees. The men were armed with bows 
and poisoned arrows, and some with long spears : 
the latter formed an escort to lead us from the 
beach to the village where we met the chief sitting 
almost alone, under a large tree, which afforded 
an agreeable shade, outside the group of huts which 
fonned his residence. After salutation by shaking of 
hands. Dr. Baikie introduced the subject of our visit, 
and expressed his wish to send inuiiediately to the 
white men, who, we heard, were at Keana. Our 


60 


MESSENGERS 


previous knowledge of the case gave no room to the 
chief to plead Ignorance, and he promised at once to 
confer with his headmen, and let us know, when 
we had returned on hoard, about sending messen- 
gers. In the mean time we had the man on board 
who had informed Mr. Richards of the travellers 
being at Keana. He confirmed his statement, that 
they had arrived there one month before he left 
Keana, and that he had seen them eight days ago, and 
offered to go with the messengers if he were sent ; he 
himself being a native of Keana, where his father is 
living, but his mother resides here at Ojogo. We 
gave him some presents, and held out hopes of his 
ffettinff more if he would go with the messencrers, and 
bring our friends down. The pictures of the four 
travellers w^ere shown to him, fi'om the frontispiece 
of Petermann’s Atlas of Central Afi’ica. He looked 
for awhile, and pointed to that of Dr. Barth, 
which he said was like him in countenance, but he 
missed his beard and whiskers, like those of !Mr. 
Richardson ; he pointed to the picture of Vogel 
as his companion. From these and other testimonies, 
we concluded that the information was likely to be 
true.* 

As the chief’s messenger was not forthcoming, we 
sent to him again in the evening, to express our 
disappointment. The messengers returned, and said, 
as he was the chief of the water side, he wanted to 
catch some fish first, to send to the chief of Keana, 
who was his superior, and who would be displeased 

* It will be seen, however, from the sequel, that the in- 
formant was misunderstood. 


DESPATCHED TO KEANA. 


61 


if such a present were not sent to him. To-morrow 
morning, Dr. Baikie and myself intend to go on shore 
and to push the matter forward. In the night we 
had a heavy tornado and rain ; — the river may now 
be expected to rise. 

August 24 : Early this morning we went to visit 
Amishi, the chief, about sending the messengers to 
Keana without delay. We succeeded in putting 
aside the plan of catching and sending fish to the 
chief, by promising to supply the messengers with 
presents to him. That arrangements might be made 
for their immediate departure, some one or other 
of us would have started at once with the mes- 
sengers, had horses been obtainable, and if our ap- 
pearance in the intermediate towns would not have 
caused delay, instead of hastening the matter ; for 
native messengers can go without much notice, and 
can make a harder push than any of us can do. 
After breakfast, Amishi, otherwise called Ojogo, 
which is his public title, came on board, and was 
shown over the ship and into the saloon, at which he 
was struck with great wonder ; about noon, he re- 
turned on shore to despatch the messengers, who 
were waiting to go to Keana. After the bustle of 
sending the messengers away was over, I collected 
some words in the Doma language from Onuse, the 
chief s sister ; and in return for her services she re- 
ceived one of the glass saucers, which were kindly 
sent me by Lady Buxton, with which she thought 
she was amply remunerated. 

August 25 : There is a tribe on the south bank 
called Mitshi. They have been represented all along 


62 


THE MITSHI lEIBE. 


as a wild people and wicked archers, and are called 
Kaferi, even by their heathen neighbours. They 
came once to Ojogo to sell provisions, but the 
chief would not allow them to visit him, because 
they are so much addicted to theft. Early this 
morning a messenger was sent to Ojogo, to inform 
him of our intention to visit the hlitshis, and to ' 
purchase from them yams and a bullock, as we have 
been told they have plenty ; — to-day being the market- 
day between them and the people here. The chief 
appointed Onuse, his sister, to go and transact the 
business for us ; but when she came on board and 
found that we had made ready to go, she was afraid, 
and returned immediately on shore in her own canoe, 
paddled by females as well as males — for both are 
equally good sailoi’s. Thinking she would follow us, 
we started for the klitshi market, about one mile 
distant below Ojogo, several Ojogo canoes having 
already gone before us. On our approach, we heard 
a great noise and clamour in the market, which is 
held in canoes on the water-side, and when we came 
neai', all the Ojogo canoes had dispersed in different 
directions, and everything was in great confusion : 
some of the women were crying, for the IVIitshis had 
plundered their property, and a strong party had 
armed themselves with bows and poisoned arrows to 
oppose our landing. We were but a few yards from 
them, but could not speak directly with them ; besides 
which, there was such uproar and excitement, that it 
was impossible to gain their attention. They at times 
beckoned to us in defiance to land, and armed people 
were stationed along the bank to oppose our doing so. 


ITS SAVAGE CHARACTER. 


63 


There was not a single weapon in our boat. Dr. 
Baikie held out some handkerchiefs as an inducement, 
but the very sight of them seemed to enrage them. 
At last, an old grey-bearded man, who seemed to be 
the chief, with great passion and significant motion 
of both hands wished us away. As there was no 
alternative, we returned to the ship, and then went 
to inform the Ojogo of the conduct of the Mitshis. 
He had just ordered a canoe, at the report of his 
sistei’, to call us back. He said, if the IMitshis, over 
whom he had no control, should do any mischief 
to our person or property, the blame would be laid 
to him. Then we were told that the Mitshis were 
cannibals, and that they devour the bodies of their 
enemies killed in war. But I am inclined to believe 
that this act of savageness is only ])ractlsed in time 
of war, to terrify their enemies, and is not an habitual 
thing. When the Ijebus invaded Abbeokuta some 
years ago, and were defeated, some bodies of the 
Ijcbu slain, were cut in pieces by the Egbas, and 
boiled in large pots, that the Ijebus might have the 
gi’eater cb’ead of the Egbas. Ikumi, the chief of 
Ijaye, perfonned a like barbarous act when one of 
his wives was ])ut to death, either for revenge, or to 
terrify others from committing themselves in like 
manner. Before we leave the river, we may leam 
the certainty of the Mitshis being practically can- 
nibals, or otherwise. 

It appears from the information we could collect, 
that the Mitshis were originally slaves of the Filatas 
and other tribes in the Haussa country, and that they 
made their escape from their masters, and settled 


64 


AKPOTO LAND. 


on the south side of the river, where they have been 
subsequently joined by a great number of runaway 
slaves ; and have thus become formidable to their 
neighbours. In this way they maintain their in- 
dependence, and are always suspicious of strangers 
going among them. They look wild but timid ; 
carrying always their poisoned arrows about them, 
which they are ready to discharge upon the least pro- 
vocation. Their villages, which are independent of 
each other, spread over a great part of the south side 
of the Tshadda towards the Akpoto country. They 
have a language of their own, and seem to acknow- 
ledge no superior above the headman of each village. 
These villagers sometimes fall out among themselves, 
or village against village, and shoot one another 
with poisoned arrows. The fact of their possessing 
a large number of cattle seems to favour the report 
of their having been at one time connected with the 
Filatas, as slaves, whose cattle they probably used 
to tend ; and since they have gained their liberty, 
they pursue the same occupation for their own 
advantage. Their being prohibited from visiting the 
ship may be the cause of provocation, which they 
retaliated this morning in the market upon the 
Ojogo traders. 

From Idda to the Confluence, all the land on 
the left side of the river, and from the Confluence 
to this place, is called Akpoto land, and bears the 
same name at Igara. The Igbiras, Bassas, Aga- 
tus, (a tribe of Doma) and also the Mitshis, who 
are found in the immediate vicinity of the south 
fide of the Tshadda have all come from the north 


AFFINITY OF IGAKA AND TORUBA WORDS. 65 

side, either as refugees or settlers ; and are not the 
original proprietors of that part of the country, as 
they themselves confess. Even the Atta of Igara 
himself appears to be a settler or colonist in Akpoto 
land, as may be collected from the following tradi- 
tion among the Igaras : — 

As I was comparing Igara words with Yoruba, I 
asked ^Mahamma, Ama-Abokko’s messenger, whether 
he could not give me some account of the similarity 
between some Igara words and phrases and those of 
the Yoruba — for the affinity appeared to be greater 
than between any other languages hereabouts. Upon 
this he related the following tradition ; — In old time, 
the king of Yoruba made a journey to Eabba, 
when he desired the Atta to look out for a suita- 
ble locality for his future settlement. The Atta 
accordingly took a canoe and dropped down the 
river till he came to Idda, which was the original 
name of the town. There he met the inhabitants 
who were called Akpoto, and their headman Igara, 
from whom he begged for a place to settle in, 
which was granted. Atta returned, and reported his 
success to the king of Yoruba, who a.sked the Atta, 
if he thought he would be secure and nobody could 
trouble him. The Atta answered, that he should 
be secure. Hence, the Atta separated and formed a 
district for himself ; and being more influential than 
the Akpotos, they gave him the precedence. In 
course of time the language of the settlers gradually 
disappeared before that of the Akpotos; or rather 
the settlers appear to have adopted the latter 
as a medium of communication between them, and 


66 


TIMIDITY OP THE OJOGO PEOPLE. 


incorporated it with their own. The true meaning 
of Atta, is father or patriarch, hut his right title 
as Idng is Onu, which is the same as Olu of Yoruha, 
and means king, or governor of a province. 

August 26. Nothing of importance occurred 
during the day ; the little wood the people had was 
purchased, and the Krumen were sent to cut more 
in the hush. The wants of this people are so few, 
that they are content to sit down the whole day 
smoking their pipes, instead of going to cut wood 
to sell, although they are very desirous of getting 
many things hy begging. 

August 27 : Sunday. Plad service at half-past 
ten as usual, and read the third part of the nine- 
teenth Homily on Prayer. Having heen informed 
that the people were running away from the village 
of Ojogo, we went on shore after service to ascer- 
tain the cause and quiet their fears. During two 
previous nights. Dr. Baikie and Mr. May had heen 
on shore to take lunar observations, and of course 
had lights with them. The bull’s-eye lamp seems 
to have made them afraid. The chief was previ- 
ously apprehensive of something when he saw Mr, 
!May measuring the beach, and thought that he did 
this because the white men had it in mind to take 
his country from him. When we got on shore, we 
desired an interview with him. His heart was throb- 
bing with fear ; but I tried to exjilain to him, how 
from ignorance of the depth of the river, our ship 
was grounded very near his village, where we re- 
mained a part of two days ; that k'li’. May’s mea- 
suriiur the beach was to ascertain the breadth of the 


DEFENSIVE ATTITUDE OF THE NATIVES. 67 


river, and liow much it has risen since we have been 
here : that their looking at the moon and stars in 
the night, was to ascertain how far we were from 
our country : that he himself must have taken 
notice that the moon does not remain stationary, 
but rises higher every day : so by looking at either 
the moon and stars, we also know how far we are 
from home : that God has commanded us to do 
good to all men, and never to do evil, for if we 
do them harm, God will not be pleased with us. 
AYith this explanation both he and his people ap- 
peared satisfied. I asked him, if there were any 
thing of which he wanted further explanation, as 
we were ready to give it ; he replied, that he had 
nothing mox’e to ask, but for some red velvet, a 
stool, and a bason ; which we promised to consider 
when our friends should arrive from Keana. We 
asked permission to walk a little about the village, 
which he granted ; but in every part of the village, 
we met bows bent and poisoned arrows ready for 
action. In one house, we met with Al^pama, the 
Mitshi market-master, who wished us away on 
Friday ; he tried to keep himself out of sight, but we 
shook hands with him, and asked the reason why he 
refused our visit to his town, seeing we were walking 
as friends in the town of Ojogo. He laid the blame 
upon his unruly young men. We then invited him to 
the ship on Monday, to be accompanied by Onuse, 
the chief’s sister, and Osaba, our Keana infonnant. 
He promised to come, but wished to go home fii'st 
and give his boys some beer, that they might restore 
the goods they had taken away fi'om the people of 


68 


RESERVE OF AKPAMA. 


Ojogo ; — then, he said, we might send one person, 
with the king’s sister, next mai’ket, hut no white man 
was to come till the market after next. When we 
returned on board, two chiefs, higher up the river, 
Mahamma of Kondoko, and Jefulla of Akpa, sent 
messengers to enquire who we were, for they were 
afraid, and to see the ship, which they did, and 
returned to their chiefs with satisfactory answers. 

August 29 : Akpama, the IMitshi market-master, 
did not fulfil the promise he gave yesterday, to come 
on board according to our invitation ; but Mr. May 
quietly landed, and went to the Mitshi village, where 
he met the Ojogo’s sister and Akpama, who received 
him kindly, and he brought them both in his boat 
to the ship. Akpama was very reserved, and felt 
himself powerless on board the ‘‘Pleiad;” his weapons 
were left in the boat, with his dirty and ragged shirt, 
and he had but a piece of cloth around his waist. 
He was kindly spoken to through the Haussa and 
Doma languages, the latter of which he understood; 
and two pieces of waistcloth were soon passed 
around his loins, with which he was not a little 
pleased. Allusion to his wishing us away was a 
painful subject to him. He said, it was a by-gone 
matter which he did not wish to be repeated ; and 
promised to tell all his people of us, and to bi'ing 
the chief of Wantele on board to-morrow. But he 
evidently did not feel at home in the ship, and in 
about a quarter of an hour, he left it with the 
chief’s sister, I hope in better spirits. If feelings of 
confidence and friendship are left to arise gradually in 
the minds of the people, we shall soon come to a 


ENQUIRIES AFTER ZURI. 


69 


mutual understanding, but when there appears to be 
an impatient desire to visit distrustful natives, such 
as the Mitshis, suspicion and distrust are awakened 
on their part, and are not afterwards easily removed. 

August 30 — 31 : Nothing of importance occurred. 
The people continued to collect wood, and we were 
all in expectation of the retimn of Zuri, our mes- 
senger, from Keana, or to hear fi’om him; he had 
given us hopes of his return in six or eight days, 
and it was now the ninth since he left. The rising 
of the river is one cause for desiring his return with 
some anxiety, lest we should lose the most favourable 
season for going as high as possible before the river 
begins to fall. Our expectation of the arrival of the 
travellers is also another matter of great impoi’tance, 
and one which cannot be easily laid aside. 

September 1 : Many enquiries have been made 
after Zuri. Sometimes it is reported that he has 
been seen at Keana, but has not yet had an inter- 
view with the king ; at other times, he is said to have 
seen the king, but received no answer from him ; 
but not a word has reached us of his seeing any 
wdiite men at Keana. Aliheli was sent to one of 
the men who were reported to have seen Zuri, 
but he was told that the person had returned last 
night. All this led us to suspect there could be no 
truth in the information given us of the travellers. 
Zuri had left Orobo, one of his slaves on board, who 
spoke the Ilaussa and Doma languages, as well as 
Igbira, and his little son, Musa, continued under our 
care. When Orobo came on board, I questioned 
him closely respecting the intelligence about his 


70 CORRECTED REPORT OF WHITE MEN. 

master, and finding lie could not continue liis lies 
any longer, lie said, it was the oracles which had 
reported all that we had been told about his master. 
That this was a mortifying business to us I need not 
say. We went to the Ojogo, to express our dis- 
appointment, and to request him to send another 
messenger, saying one of us would go with him to 
Keana, to enquire after our friends, I proposed to 
go on INIonday, if Zuri did not amve by Sunday ; 
but Dr. Baikie not wishing to lose, any more time 
offered to start on Saturday, and with this under- 
standing we left the Ojogo. On our way back we 
saw Osaba, who we understood had seen the white 
men at Keana, only eight days before our arrival at 
Ojogo. I closely cross-questioned him, when he 
affirmed that he had seen them five days before 
he left Keana, exchanging goods with the Idng to 
the amount of twenty slaves, hut that it was two 
months since he had left Keana before our arrival. 
This statement threw quite a new light upon the 
subject. The mistake of eight days must have been 
made by the interpreter in the multitude of questions 
which succeeded one another ; and we concluded 
they could not have remained upwards of two 
months in Keana without the news of it being 
more extensively spread; moreover, had they been 
there still, immediately on Zui’i’s arrival at Keana, 
they would have written to acknowledge the re- 
ceipt of Dr. Baikie’s letter to Dr. Barth, by a 
special messenger, if they could not have left imme- 
diately. The idea of going to Keana was, therefore, 
given up, but two days were allowed for the return 


STOLEN PEOPEKTY EESTORED. 


71 


of Zuri, and to complete our supply of wood ; ^londay 
being fixed for our departure. 

September 2 : During our stay here, I have 
managed to fill up the words selected for translation 
into the Doma or Ai’afro lanowao-e, with a few addi- 
tional sentences. My teachers were so unsteady, not 
being accustomed to sit an hour together at such 
an employment, that I could do but little at a time, 
so as not to wear out their patience, and risk their 
giving me wrong words. The hopes held out to them 
of a little remuneration had considerable influence 
upon them. I was very anxious to get a few Mitshi 
words ; but none of that people could be prevailed 
on to come near us. Akpama, the market headman, 
did not fulfil his promise to bring the chief of Wan- 
tele on board. Aliheli was sent with Ojogo’s sister, 
with some cloth to buy provisions and a bidlock, of 
which we heard they possessed plenty, but he could 
get nothing. When he was bartering for a few yams, 
some handkerchiefs he had to buy them with, were 
stolen from him, and it was only owing to the kind- 
ness Akpama had received from the ship that 
they were restored. Aliheli said they were about 
him with their bows and arrows, as if they were 
going to war ; and, except Akpama, not one of 
them ever came near our ship. Several strangers 
from the interior, and from the villages up the river, 
visited the ship and sold their little goods. Among 
them was Asaba, a man from Rogan-Koto, one of 
whose legs was bitten off by a crocodile, but the 
wound has since been healed, and the ))oor man 
hobbled from place to place with the help of a staff, 


72 


ASABA AND HIS WOODEN LEO. 


about four feet long. As soon as lie was seen by 
Drs. Hutchinson and Baikie, they began to think 
wdiether something could not be done to assist the 
poor man ; and Hr. Guthrie, the head engineer, 
contrived, and in a few hours completed a wooden 
leg. Asaba had returned to his town, as Ojogo 
informed us, to get something for presents to the 
gentlemen who were making a foot for him ; and 
on his return, the wooden leg was put on by Mr. 
Guthrie in the presence of many visitors, who were 
not a httle amused at the contrivance of the white 
men. Our stay at Ojogo had its many advantages. 
It has become known, far higher up the river, who 
we are, and what are our objects, so that the minds 
of the people are more prepared for the arrival of 
the steamer. 

September S : Swnday. I held Divine Service 
at half-past ten, and preached from St John xx. 29. 
In the afternoon we went on shore to take leave of 
the Ojogo, and to deliver him a letter for Dr. Barth, 
in case of his arrival in our absence. The chief was 
also presented with a red serge cloak, with which he 
was much pleased. Orobo, Zuri’s man, who under- 
stood the Djuku, or Korrofa language as well as 
his master, hesitated to go with us, but after a little 
persuasion he consented to do so ; but said he would 
not come on board till to-morrow morning. Further 
light was thrown upon the character of Zuri by 
Ojogo, who informed us that Zuri would not be 
safe if he were to go to Eogan-Koto, in Doma, which 
was his mother’s town, his father belonging to 
Abitsh, higher up in Koi’orofa. Both these towns 


CHARACTER OF ZURI. 


73 


belong to Panda, their present inhabitants being 
permitted to occupy them for the convenience of 
trade. Zuri appeared to have committed himself 
at Rogan-Koto, and he was declared an outlaw, 
whom any one who met him might kill, so that 
he fled for safety down the river. We told the chief 
that we knew nothing of Zuri's matter with his 
people, but he was employed by us, and under our 
protection, and as long as he continued in our ser- 
vice nobody should touch him. It is very difficult to 
know with what characters one has to do. I had 
many times suspected that Zuri, while on board the 
steamer, was assuming an authority to which he 
had no right, over those who came to trade at 
Akpoko ; all those who sold ivory had to pay him 
some couTies, as if on commission. On one occasion, 
a canoe paddled after us a considerable way, and 
passed us at night, not seeing us till the next morn- 
ing, as we anchored in the open river and they went 
close to the bush. The hard bargain they made 
for their ivory, constantly going away, and coming 
back to see what they could get more, and their 
going away at last without selling it, led me very 
much to suspect that Zuri had a hand in the affair ; 
but I may be wrong. 

The chief town of this part of Doma is Keana, 
whose ruling king is Adaso, said to be an Haussa 
by birth, who pays an annual tribute of one hundred 
slaves to the sultan of Sokoto, through Bautshi. All 
the small towns dependent on Keana have to pay 
their share of tribute to Adaso. It appears fi’om the 
statement of the people, that the inhabitants at 

E 


74 A CANOE DETACHED TO THE CONFLUENCE. 

Keana sally out fi’om time to time, and catch the 
villagers as slaves, either in default of paying their 
share of tribute, or for some other alleged offence. 
The people of Ojogo had to quit their old town, 
Ajamo, and take refuge on the island in which they 
are now scattered in detached villages, which all 
go by the name of Ojogo, their chief. Such tyranny 
may account for the hesitation, as to sending a 
messenger to Ojogo without some fish to conciliate 
the king’s favour. 

September 4 : Got under weigh about seven A.M., 
on oiir exploration of the Tshadda and enquiry after 
Dr. Barth. The first village we came to, after 
leaving Ojogo, was Ajamo, where a canoe paddled 
towards us, to say they had received a message from 
Zuri last night, who said he would be back in 
three days’ time, and requested us to wait for 
him, but not a word was said respecting the white 
men. I, therefore, considered the message to be 
a mere fabrication, especially as Orobo had refused 
to go up with us, and had enticed Musa, Zuri’s 
son, to remain on shore with him. After break- 
fast we parted company with one of the canoes 
which Mr. Crawford and the second engineer were 
talcing down to the Confluence of the Tshadda and 
Kowara, with cowries and goods for the conve- 
nience of trade : we parted with three hearty 
cheers. After passing several small villages, the 
first and second of which are named Kondoko and 
Amowo, on the right side of the river, we came to 
Rogan-Koto, situated on the slope of a rising ground 
facing the river, and walled on the back part. The 


rogan-koto. 


75 


Haussa call it Rogan-Koto, but the people them- 
selves call it Ajewon Igbira, We anchored here for 
an hour, and went on shore on a visit to Sada, the 
chief. The inhabitants of this place are Igbira, and 
belong to Panda (Funda). They were permitted to 
settle here in Doma for the convenience of trade. 
Thus, they pay tribute to Panda, their lawful king, 
and a kind of land-tax to the king of Keana, for 
permission to settle in his territory. Here we met 
Asaba, the one-legged man, who was very glad of 
the leg Mr. Guthrie had made for him, and appears 
to be quite another man since he put away his long 
staff He moved about the deck with much facility, 
and could not express enough in words his gratitude 
to his benefactor. One of his wives brought a 
calabash full of clean rice as a present. The town 
of Rogan-Koto has not been left unmolested. Last 
year it was attacked by the Berebere, of Lafia, 
and a gi-eat many of the people were carried away 
as slaves. They have just returned to rebuild their 
ruined houses, very few of which remain. To those 
who had felt the distresses of war, the sound of 
peace fell upon their ears, as refreshing rain upon 
a thirsty land. They were kind, and wished us 
many blessings from God upon the undertaking of 
the white men to restore peace to mankind. They 
had not heard any news respecting any white travel- 
lers. After leaving this place, we passed the villages 
of Kondo and Akpa on the left side ; and about four 
P.M., the town 'of Abitshi (Zuri’s town), but we did 
not anchor. It is a small but thickly populated place, 
and walled around. Like Rogan-Koto, it belongs to 


76 


THE WUKARI TERRITORY. 


Panda, and pays tribute to him and Wukari, in 
whose territory the town is situated. The Wukari 
territory seems to commence about Kondoko and 
Akpa ; but in consequence of the destruction of 
Panda, it is likely these places will fall into other 
hands. From Ojogo to Abitshi, the land rises and 
is hilly at times on the right bank. The river is very 
easy of navigation, owing to the rise of the water 
and absence of numerous islands. Indeed, we have 
not made such an easy progress since we left Aboh. 
The IVIitshi country extends on to Wukari, at which 
place we expect to hear more of this singular 
people. 

September 5 : Started early this morning from 
our anchorage, which was nearly abreast Mount 
Ethiope. The scenery is very picturesque, fresh 
mountains continually burst into view. There is 
plenty of water, and the navigation is easy. We 
passed several small farms and fishing villages, but 
as it was thought of more importance to push forward 
to Wukari, we did not stay to ask the names of 
the villages, though we had several of them given 
to us at Rogan-Koto. About two p.m., we came very 
close to a group of huts on the left bank, where it 
appeared they were making pottery, and dropping 
our anchor for a short time, we called a canoe along- 
side. The men told us that the name of the town to 
wliich they belonged, is Anyishi, a little way a-head 
of us on the left side of the river; and that they 
had sent to inform the chief that a ship was coming. 
The canoe-men hastened back, shouting, “ Sariki 
n Wukari, Sariki n Wukari ! (King of Wukari, 


HIGH BANKS ON THE RIVEK. 


77 


King of Wukari !) I judged from this exclama- 
tion, either that the king of Wukari was there, 
or that this place must be of some importance 
belonging to him. We weighed, and in a short 
time came in sight of the town of Anyishi, situated 
on a hill on the west side of Mount Herbert ; 
but we did not stop, reserving our visit to these 
places till our return. The face of the country 
we passed to-day, was nearly like that of the group 
of mountains between Idda and the Confluence of 
the Tshadda and Kowara, but the hills are more 
scattered, and present a beautiful appearance. At 
times, the river flows at the foot of mountains 
rising immediately from the water’ s-edge ; for in- 
stance, Mount Herbert on the left, and Mount 
Adams a little before on the right. The banks thus 
present a very pleasing contrast to the low lands 
we have passed through. From Ojogo to Anyishi we 
met more frequently with villages near the river, 
and the people were less timid. This, no doubt, 
is owing to their having heard of the white men’s 
ship anchoring off Ojogo for some days. They 
always showed a disposition to come off, if the 
ship would but wait for them. The “ Pleiad” 
was well adapted for the navigation of the river, 
and even when she went but half-speed, neither her 
own boat, nor the canoes of the natives, though 
well manned, could keep up with her in stemming 
the current, which runs from one and a-half to 
three knots per hour. We anchored for the night, 
but remote from any human habitation. 

September 6 : Started very ' early this morning. 


78 


GANDIKO AND GANKERA. 


The state of the river continued very favourable, 
the breadth not much diminished and good depth 
of water. The face of the country is very flat 
two or three miles inland on both sides, and there 
was no appearance of town or village, nor even of a 
fishing hut till about half-past one, P.M., when a 
fishing hut was seen on the left bank, but nobody 
was in it. At four o’clock we spied a group of 
houses at a great distance before us. This was 
something delightful, and about five P.M., we an- 
chored off the villages of Gandiko, whose chief was 
Ama, and Gankera, whose chief was Garike. Before 
the ship came to an anchor, intelligence had reached 
the chiefs of the villages, and all hands were up 
in arms. Their weapons were bows and poisoned 
arrows, and long spears, and some men carried three 
or four of the latter poisoned also. Our boat was 
ready for us, and we pulled towards shore in search 
of the landing-place. There were some plantations 
of maize and guinea corn along the water’s edge, 
and some of the farmers were near; tliree women 
stood very close to the bank with seeming confidence. 
We addressed them in Haussa, to which tliey re- 
plied, and asked them for the landing-place, but 
they gave us no satisfactory reply. A little way 
higher up, we saw a man on the bank, who drove 
the women away. We addressed him in Haussa, 
and he replied : we told him we were from the 
white man's country, and wanted to see the chief 
As soon as he saw the Europeans, he cried out 
lustily in Haussa : “ Batw^ Anasara maidukia na 
gode Alla " — “White men, the Nazarenes, men of 


NATIVES DISARMED BT CONFIDENCE. 


79 


property, I thank God many times over. He took 
the lead through old cultivated grounds, but over- 
grown with grass and bushes, through which we 
had to beat our way to the footpath leading to the 
town. Our leader, either from excitement or in- 
toxication, became louder and louder in his cry, 
Bature Anasara maidulcia na gode Alla We 
soon came to a iuncture of two paths, where the 
Galadima, a war chief of the first rank, and next to 
the chief, with a small party of about twenty-four 
men, armed with bows and arrows and spears, were 
stationed, and our leader with his boisterous cry in- 
troduced us to them as men of peace and trade ; in 
the meantime, we were lost in the midst of the 
soldiers, Dr. Baikie was in one direction. Dr. Hutch- 
inson in another, and klr. May in the midst of the 
soldiers. We had not a single weapon about us, 
offensive or defensive; but the confidence with which 
we went among such an armed party was enough to 
prevent their doing any mischief. During our whole 
progress the few instances in which hostility was 
shown or opposition made to our landing arose out 
of nothing else but want of mutual understanditm. 
On the present occasion, as soon as we came toge- 
ther, we shook hands with the Galadima, and he 
led us to the town. The path was full of soldiers 
coming out to join the Galadima ; but seeing him 
return with us, they all fell back on both sides of 
the path which brought us to the entrance of the 
town. The place was fortified with a wooden fence 
and a ditch around it ; and in the midst of the 
town and under a kind of fig or banian tree planted 


80 


PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SUSPICION. 


for the sake 'of its shade, we met the chief, Ama, 
also armed with a bow and arrows as were about 
two hundred men with him. We were introduced 
to him by the Galadima, and after shaking hands, 
conversed briefly with him respecting oirr visit to 
the country. He appeared quite satisfied, and 
requested us to return to the ship, and wait till 
to-morrow before entering into particulars of the 
object of our journey. We returned accordingly 
with the hope that we might be able to visit Wukari 
from this place. 

What is generally related of the natives of Africa 
as to their hostility to Europeans is not strictly 
coiTect. The truth is, they take alarm, and con- 
sequently get ready for the defence of their country, 
which is divided by wars, marauding and robbery 
into many independent states, and every district 
must watch against surprize by its neighbovu's. It is 
but natural for such a people, shut out from com- 
munication with the civilized world, when they see 
for the first time such a huge and self-moving 
body as a steamer, to take alarm, not knowing the 
object of those who inhabit it, for to their ideas 
it is a town of itself. There is one thing which 
enterprising European explorers overlook, I mean 
the continual fear and insecurity the Natives are 
in, from the constant treachery of their enemies. 
This causes them to go about always armed with 
their bows and arrows, and at the least alarm they 
are ready to discharge their deadly weapons. 
Though travellers fear nothing themselves, yet, 
they should endeavour to take due precautions to 


FKIENDLY FEELING TOWARDS EUROPEANS. 81 

allay the fears of those whom they intend to visit, 
by previous communication, which wiU soon be 
circulated in the neighbourhood, and then all will 
be right. A prudent man will not consider an 
hour or two wasted to effect this purpose, rather 
than risk the painful result of misunderstandings 
which may never be remedied. As far as I know, 
there is no place in Africa uncontaminated with 
European slave dealers, which Europeans have 
visited with the intention of doing good, where 
such an event has not been hailed as the most 
auspicious in the annals of the country. Every 
chief considers himself highly honoured to have 
white men for his friends. — In the evening, the 
chief sent a vessel of beer and some eggs to 
Dr. Baikie for a present. 

September 7 : About ten, A.M., we went on shore 
to have an interview with the chief. After standing 
about ten minutes in the front hall, which forms 
the entrance into his inner yard, he came out and 
seated us on a coarse mat platted of straw or small 
grass. After the usual salutation, we commenced 
stating the object of our visit. But Ama the chief 
was interrupted; Garike the chief of Gankera was 
outside, and he ought to have been invited in, which 
Ama did not feel inclined to do. A long discussion 
ensued between him and his people, and after a little 
cessation, Ama wished us to say what we wanted to 
say, and to give what we had for him, and then, he 
said, we might go and salute the other chief outside 
under the tree. lie was answered, that we must 
leave it to lum whether the matter was to be talked 


82 


IITTERVIEW WITH AMA AND GARIKE. 


over here in his hall or under the tree, for we were 
strangers, and he was to give ns directions. As we 
would not proceed, he went out and invited Sariki 
Garike in. This man looks older than Ama, and 
neither of them appeared to understand, or at least 
they would not speak Haussa, the Filani language 
being their medium of communication, as well as the 
Djuku, which is the language of Kororofa. Every- 
thing said in English was interpreted into Haussa, 
and the Haussa was again into Filani or Djuku to 
the chiefs. They had not heard of the Anasara 
traveller, (Dr. Barth) and were very glad to hear 
that trade would he established with them. They 
said, if there was no trade with foreigners, the coun- 
try would never prosper; that they were weary of 
making war, to which they were always sent by their 
masters, that they came to this place to settle and 
cultivate the land, and that if they had anything 
else to do, they would not go to war, unless for the 
defence of their country, or at the command of their 
superiors. They had heard previously from their 
men, that we were not slave dealers, hence the turn 
given to their intercourse with us. As regards our 
journey to Wukari, after Ama and Garike had con- 
ferred together, Ama replied, that they were at war 
with Wukari, so that we could not go there from 
this place. He asked whether we did not see the 
town Anyishi on the hill as we passed up the river, 
and on our replying in the affirmative, he said, that 
was the place to ask the way to Wukari. After 
Dr. Baikie had made them presents from Govern- 
ment, we obtained permission to walk about the 


HOESES KEPT FOE CAPTUEE OF SLAVES. 83 

town; and visited Gankera, the next village, much 
larger than Gandiko, where we saw some Arabian 
horses in very good condition, kept purposely for 
catching slaves. I saw two females in the town 
whose only clothing consisted of a few leaves, and 
who seemed quite unconcerned about their condition. 
I hope to be able to learn particulars about this 
people hereafter. We returned to the ship about 
two P.M. While the Krumen were wooding, some 
ivory was brought on board which was purchased. 
A mallam, a native of Kano, who had come to this 
place on a visit, told me that Ama had deceived 
us as to the road to Wukari ; and that had we 
landed about three miles below, we might have 
gone there, assuring us that he had lately come 
from that place on a visit to the king, who gave 
him the tobe he had on. There was another 
Haussa man in Gankera, who was very anxious that 
we should visit Wukari, and offered to place his 
horses at our service, and to accompany us him- 
self, but as Ama had put difficulties in our way, he 
could do nothing. The pretended war, which Ama 
said they had with Wukari, was of ancient date. It 
appears, at one time, the king of Kororofa being 
annoyed by the Mitshis, or some restless tribes 
about him, hired the Filanis to assist him to con- 
quer them. W^hen this was done, the Filanis, ac- 
cording to their usual practice, settled permanently 
in that part of the country they had encamped in, 
and annoyed Kororofa itself instead of returning 
to their own country ; hence their war with Wukari, 
and as they were too powerful to be dislodged by 


84 


MARKET FOR THE CAPTIVES. 


the Djuku,, and' eould not conquer Wukari, they 
became masters of that part of the country, which 
goes by the name of Zhibh, comprising six towns 
and villages on the left side of the river, viz. Hunue, 
Wazhiri, Gandiko, Gankera, Ibi, and Zhibh, the 
capital, higher up. Three other towns, Mitshi, Fa- 
garike, and Baibai, are mentioned, but they seem 
to belong to Wukari. They appear, at present, to 
be at peace with Wukari, though the latter owes 
them a grudge for encroaching upon his territory. 
These marauders make yearly incursions into the 
Mitshi country, and the outskirts of Kororofa, and 
carry away captives, to sell towards Keana, in 
Doma, Bautshi, and Kano. The slaves are, un- 
doubtedly, marched across the desert to supply the 
markets there, and this circumstance will explain the 
depopulated state of the country from Anyishi to the 
district of Zhibu — thus a distance of about forty 
miles, with beautiful ridges of highland rising be- 
yond the magnificent Binue, presents a continued 
wilderness without inhabitants. In the afternoon 
the chief, Ama, came on board, and was shown 
round the ship, which surprised him not a little. 
The people possess a few miserable canoes made 
from parts of trees sewn together by ropes. 


CHAP. III. 


INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF OP ZHIBU — PROGRESS TO ZHIRU— 
DEGRADATION OF THE PEOPLE — DIFFICULTY IN PROCURING 
FUEL — GUROWA — VISIT TO HAMARUWA FAVOURABLE RE- 

CEPTION BY THE KING — DESCRIPTION OF THE TOWN — ITS 
TRADE — FAILURE OF WOOD FOR FUEL — DETERMINATION TO 

PENETRATE THREE DAYS' VOYAGE HIGHER IN THE BOAT 

THE STEAMER COMMENCES HER RETURN — GROUNDS ON A 
MUD BANK — RETURN OF THE BOAT. 

September 8 : Started this morning, and about 
one P.M., anchored off the town of Zhibu. The 
arrival of the ship at Gandiko had been heard of, 
so that there was no cause of alarm, and we im- 
mediately sent a message to inform the sariki that 
we would shortly pay him a visit. 

The town is about a mile from the river, situated 
on a rising ground, commanding a fine view of 
the Binue and the country around, and appears 
to be of greater extent than Idda in Igara, com- 
pact and thickly populated. After about a quarter 
of an hour’s detention in the street, we were in- 
vited in by the sariki’s messenger, and passing 
three entrances of conical roofs, at some distance 
one from the other, we came to a fourth, where 
the king was sitting, ready to receive us. He told 
us that his name is Bohari, but he is generally 
known by the name of Zumbade, and is the head, 
or king of the Zhibh district. lie is by birth 


86 


THE CHIEF OF ZHIBH. 


a Djuku, or Kororofa, as are also Ama, of Gan- 
diko, and Garike, of Gankera ; lie seems to be about 
forty years of age, and is rather of a surly counte- 
nance. After the usual salutation, Dr. Baikie told 
him the objects of his visit ; namely, to enquire after 
Dr. Barth, and to propose opening trade with them. 
No intelligence of Dr. Barth had reached them ; 
of trade they were highly delighted to hear, and 
requested at once that the ship should proceed no 
further; but they were told that we must proceed 
onward to make enquiry after the white man, if 
possible, at least as far as Hamaruwa. The chief 
said it would take us eight months to go there, 
and the river would rise during this month only, and 
begin to fall the next, and in a little time it would 
not be deeper than a man’s waist, so that our ship 
being large, would not have water enough for the 
voyage downwards ; besides which, there are many 
rocks in the river, and he was afraid, if any thing 
should happen to the ship, it would be attributed 
to him, for not having given us proper information ; 
that the people higher up were Kaferis, and would 
run away when they saw the ship. VVe soon per- 
ceived his motives in all this, but thanked him for 
the information. Dr. Baikie gave him presents 
from government, for which he gave in return, 
a sheep and a calabash of fresh butter, and an 
Haussa tobe to Dr. Hutchinson. But there was 
another question, which the most hardened con- 
science must feel to be disgraceful to humanity. 
The king called Aliheli, our interpreter, into the 
inner yard, and showed him a little boy whom he 


nis VISIT TO THE SHIP. 


87 


had to sell, and asked him whether he would not 
purchase him. Aliheli told him, that Englishmen 
were altogether opposed to the slave-trade, and 
when they came out, he requested that the ship 
might stay to-morrow, that his people might have 
the chance of selling ivory — a request which was 
at once complied with. We theti returned to the 
ship. When the chief was asked if a bullock 
could be purchased, he said they had plenty, but 
they were with their masters. He was asked who 
these masters were, but gave an evasive answer ; 
but we had learnt from the people that they were 
slaves of the Filanis, and came from Yola and 
Hamaruwa, which the chief did not wish to confes.s. 

September 9 : While the Krumen were engaged 
cutting wood, the people came on board to trade. 
Bohari, the chief, rode close to the bank to see 
the ship, and to observe how his people behaved. 
With some persuasion he was got on board, but 
not before he had ordered all the traders to be re- 
moved from the ship. He, as all the others had 
been, was surprised at the size of the ship, and 
no wonder, for they themselves have but very few 
canoes, small and old, hollowed in parts out of 
two different trees, and sewn together with ropes, 
as one would join an old broken bowl. Tlie ship’s 
boats had to convey the traders to the ship, and 
land them the whole day. The kinds of grain 
grown here are maize, or Indian corn, guinea corn, 
and the straight-headed grain, called gero, and 
dawuro ; rice is grown, but in very small quan- 
tity, though thousands of bushels of it might be 


88 


WANT OF MARKETS. 


produced yearly on the irrigated banks of this 
river, which would supply millions of people with 
wholesome food. In consequence of the men being 
chiefly occupied in marauding expeditions, the in- 
firm male and female slaves are generally employed 
in the cultivation of the soil. No yams, plantains, 
bananas, coco’s, oranges, cocoa-nuts, or pine-apples, 
are to be obtained — these plants not being culti- 
vated. No eatables are hawked about the streets 
by girls and women, nor are there any places of 
refreshment, or eating houses under sheds ; in short, 
there is no market in this country like those met 
with on the west bank of the Niger. They barter 
one thing for another, corn for beer, and beer for 
corn, ground-nuts for rice, &c., but some people 
took cowries for ivory, to be carried to the Haussa 
country, where they are current. There is a total 
absence of palm-trees here, and consequently no 
palm-oil, and soap is a very scarce article. The 
people, with very few exceptions, are scantily clothed, 
ragged and dirty. Clothes are consequently in great 
request, so that in exchange for fowls, goats, sheep, 
ducks (of which they possess many), and for mats 
and corn, they ask cloth. The chief offered to 
send some persons with us to show us where the 
rocks were, and his offer was accepted, but they 
were not ready to come on board till the morning, 
and were told to be ready at cock-crowing. 

September 10: Sv/nday. Got under weigh at 
six A.M. The guides were not forthcoming, so that 
we went without them. About ten A.M., we an- 
chored, and had divine service about a quarter to 


HERD OF HIPPOPOTAMI. 


89 


eleven. I preached from Heb. vi. 19. At one o’clock 
we got under weigh again, and anchored about 
six P.M., having made about sixteen miles above 
Zhibu. This morning, as the Krumen were set to 
cut wood for the furnace, I could not but feel for 
them, as they went very reluctantly to work. It 
is a reproach to us, who profess to observe the 
Lord’s-day, and teach others to sanctify it, thus 
to violate it ourselves. Six days hard labour is 
sufficient for any man or beast, and all ought to 
rest on the seventh. What good could I do among 
the Knimen on the Lord’s-day, when speaking to 
them of the Christian Sabbath ? No human habi- 
tation was visible from the water, and the country 
continues low and flat ; but rising ground, at times, 
appeared at some distance from the river. A sin- 
gular-looking isolated sugar-loaf hill was seen on the 
left side of the river, in the direction of the back, or 
south side of Zhibu. We anchored among a herd 
of hippopotami, which were heard grunting about 
the ship ; Dr. Baikie and Mr. May landed in the 
evening to take observations, but, from the proxim- 
ity of these animals, were obliged to conclude their 
operations as speedily as possible. 

September W : Got under weigh about six a.m. 
The country continued very flat for about three 
miles on an average, on both sides of the river. 
About eight A.M., a large forest of cabbage-palm, 
or palmyra trees was seen on the right side of the 
river, extending a considerable distance. The river 
here spreads very much, and shows considerable 
banks in the bed of the stream. In some parts 


90 


NARROW GORGE IN THE RIVER. 


they are partially covered, and when the water falls 
must form extensive plains of sand. We anchored 
about six P.M., having made about twenty-five 
miles. Flocks of wild ducks were sitting on the 
sand-banks, but as it was getting late none could 
be killed. A range of high mountains was seen at 
a distance on the left side, named Albemarle Range. 
No vestige of a habitation appeared all the way. 

September 12 : Got under weigh as usual. The 
country began to present an undulating appearance 
at a little distance on both sides of the river. About 
noon we passed a feeding stream on the left, the 
first we have met since leaving the Confluence, and 
immediately after, the Tshadda became extremely 
narrow, being hemmed in by rising ground, espe- 
cially on the right side, for about a quarter of a 
mile. The depth was not less than five fathoms, 
and the whole volume of the Binue having to pass 
this narrow gorge, the current became so rapid, 
that it was difficult for the “ Pleiad,'’ with the aid 
of two small sails to stem it. We began to appre- 
hend some difficulty of navigation ; but to our no 
small joy, after rounding Lynslager Point, we found 
the Tshadda spread its noble stream over as ex- 
tensive a bed as before. However, being short of 
fuel, we dropped anchor about two P.M., to cut 
wood, but unfortunately, the trees hereabouts are 
not of good quality, and only a little was cut to 
eke out the scanty stock of dry wood on board. 
A party who went shooting on shore, reported that 
they had seen traces of human footsteps on the 
beach. 


ALARM OF THE NATIVES. 


91 


September 13 : We remained still at anchor. 
All hands employed in splitting the dry wood for 
use. A canoe with three men was seen this morn- 
ing at some distance from us, but they immediately 
disappeared in the bush, and would not come near. 
We wished much to receive some information from 
them as to the distance we were from any habita- 
ble village, and from the port of Bomanda, which 
appears to lead to the town of Hamaruwa. 

September 11: W eighed about 6 A.M., and 
about half-past eight we had heavy rains with a 
high wind, and were obliged to anchor until 
the storm was over. We weighed, and finding a 
large dry tree on the left bank, anchoi’ed near to 
it, about two, P.M. The men were immediately 
set to work, and some quantity was cut before 
dark. There is still no appearance of town or 
village, nor of fishing huts or traps, nor even of 
cultivation of any kind. 

September 15 : Continued wooding. About 
nine, A.M., three canoes were observed pulling 
downwards on the right side of the river. They 
saw us, and stopped to land their property on the 
opposite side, leaving one canoe there to take care 
of it while the others paddled across towards us. 
Every precaution was used to prevent their being 
frightened away. The interpreters accosted them 
in Haussa, to which they replied, and being invited 
on board, five of them came on deck. They were 
Filani traders in slaves from Bomanda, near the 
town of Hamaruwa. They left Bomanda on Tues- 
day, and made short journeys, first to Tshomo, 


92 


HAMARUWA TERRITORY. 


whence they went to Zhiru on Wednesday, and 
then to Nak, where they slept last night, and 
started this morning from Nak. They informed 
us that we were in the Hamaruwa territory, and 
that one day would bring us to Tshomo, the port 
of Bomanda They gave us the names of some 
villages we should meet with on our way, viz., 
Nak and Zhiru on the left side, and Tshomo on 
the right; and said, that the feeding stream we 
passed on Tuesday is Akam river, with a village 
called Wunubo on the bank of it ; that there are 
scattered farm villages in the interior, where the 
slaves cultivate corn for their masters; that the 
inhabitants of the Zhibu district are Hamaruwa’s 
slaves, and that all this country is inhabited by 
Djuku or Kororofa, the same with Akpa or 
Apa, which is the language of Wukari, the capital 
of Kororofa, now subject to the Filanis. They 
asked whether we wanted to purchase slaves, to 
which we answered in the negative. One of them 
said he had ivory at home, and he would be back 
in two days, when he hoped to meet us and sell 
it. They defined as well as they could the boun- 
daries of Kororofa, Hamaruwa, Adamawa and 
Bautshi; and said that the mountains visible be- 
fore us, were Fumbina mountains, and that we 
should be eight days going to the Confluence of 
the Binue and Faro, pointing to the direction of 
the rise of the latter on the left side of the former. 
They added, however, that the people of Adamawa 
were Kaferis, and that they were apprehensive 
they would fight us. All this information was very 


DANGER FROM A LEOPARD. 


93 


satisfactory, and we still entertained the hope of 
being able to reach the Confluence of the Binue 
and Faro. We gave them a few presents, and 
showed them over the ship, which pleased and 
surprised them much. They could give us no in- 
telligence of Dr. Barth, nor did it appear that they 
had heard of his visit to Yola. By six P.M., all 
the wood was got on board, but the ship and 
canoe were kept alongside the bank to enable 
Mr. May to take a star’s altitude. There were 
some goats and sheep in the canoe where they 
were always kept. It would seem that the scent 
of these creatures attracted some wild beast of 
prey, supposed to be a leopard, which approached 
very close to the ship. A little before seven, as 
Mr. May and Dr. Baikie were on shore taking 
the observation, a growling was heard among the 
long grass close by, and some of the sheep and 
goats would have been carried away had not the 
danger been known in time ; or, what is worse, 
the gentlemen might have been attacked when 
engaged with their instruments. Several loaded 
fowling pieces were fired off, which no doubt 
frightened the beast away ; but the period for the 
observation was unfortimately missed. 

September 16 : Got under weigh about 6 a.m. 
The river keeps it breadth, but there is plenty of 
water, from three to four fathoms. We missed the 
channel, and the ship grounded three times, but 
she was got oft“ by backing the engine with little 
effort on the part of the men. A new range of 
hills showed itself at a great distance on the left 


94 


LUXURIANT WOODS. 


side of the river, consisting of many lofty conical 
mountains. It lay behind a long ridge of high 
lands, running to a considerable distance, almost 
parallel with the river, which presented a very 
picturesque appearance. The tops of some of these 
mountains are covered with luxuriant woods and 
jungles, and others are quite bare and rocky. 
Though all these are pleasant to the eye, yet there 
exists no trace of any part of them being inhabited. 

About eleven A.M., we passed a small group of 
huts on an island on the left side, which we sup- 
posed to be the village Nak, of which we were 
told by our informants yesterday. Our progress 
was very slow to-day, both from touching so many 
times when we missed the channel, and for want 
of proper fuel to keep up regular steam; in conse- 
quence of which we were obliged to anchor many 
times to get it up. We came to anchor about six, 
P.M., having made about twelve or eighteen miles 
against a very strong current with a short supply 
of steam. 

September : Sunday. Dr. Baikie proposed 
to have service earlier, about nine A.M., instead of 
half-past ten, and to make half a day's sail, and 
meanwhile the Krumen were set to split wood for 
fuel. Accordingly, I performed service at nine 
A.M., and preached from Dan. iv. 39. There not 
being a sufficient supply of wood, we could not 
start, but the Krumen were kept at work splitting 
till the evening. 

September \S •. Weighed about six A.M. At nine 
we saw the huge carcase of an hippopotamus floating 


IMORU, THE FILANI MALLAM, 


95 


down the river, and about four p.m., we anchored 
off Zhiru. The natives, who stood on the bank, 
within hearing, and armed with spears, were at 
first timid ; but a little conversation with them 
in Haussa, and a request to be supplied with pro- 
visions soon inspired confidence. We landed on the 
bank, and shook hands with them, had a little 
conversation, and made some hasty enquiries. They 
were sent to inform their chief that we were 
coming to visit him shortly ; and a little while 
after, the messengers returned to invite us to the 
town. On our way to the chief, under the guidance 
of one of the men, another motioned us back, and 
introduced us to a Filani mallam, whose name was 
Imoru, stationed here by Mohamma, the Idng of 
Ilamaruwa, as a kind of deputy or consul to watch 
the interest of his king, because the inhabitants rob 
and plunder travellers on their way to and from 
Sokoto, Kano, Katshina, and Bautshi, as they carry 
on trade through Hamaruwa to Adamawa. Dr. 
Baikie being, for the first time, too ill to go on 
shore to communicate with the chief, deputed Mr. 
;May to act for him. Made our usual enquiry after 
Dr. Barth, but no intelligence of him was received. 
Imoru confirmed the statement that the people of 
Zhibii were their slaves. He was ready to send 
a messenger to inform the king of Hamaruwa of 
our arrival. The messenger, we were told, would 
arrive that evening and return to-morrow morning. 
Imoru could not give us any information of places 
beyond Hamaruwa, other than the name of a town 
he called Batshama, whose inhabitants he termed 


96 FADON, THE OPPRESSED CHIEF. 

Kaferls, and said they were a bad people. He as- 
serted that it would take us twenty days canoe- 
voyage to reach the Confluence of the Binue and 
Faro, and that it is ten day’s journey to Adamawa. 
From this I imderstood Adamawa to be the name 
given by them to a principal town in that ex- 
tensive country. Hamaruwa and Yola are entirely 
independent of one another, each holding direct 
communication with the Sultan of Sokoto. The 
present we brought for the chief was given to 
Imoru ; but I suspected there was another, but 
oppressed chief, in the town, to whom I imagined 
we were being led when called back ; so I asked 
Imoru to direct us to whom we should pay our 
respect next to himself. He then told his servant 
to accompany us in the boat to the other end of 
the village, where we landed, and were conducted 
to Fadon, the original chief of the place, and the 
true patriarch of his people, but whom we met 
greatly dejected, evidently oppressed by the follow- 
ers of the false prophet. We asked after his wel- 
fare, and spoke Idndly with him, but as he did not 
understand Haussa, the servant of Imoru inter- 
preted for him in Djuku, which is the language 
of the inhabitants. A promise was made to him 
that he shoidd receive presents similar to those 
given to Imoru, as we were not aware there were 
two ruling chiefs in the town, and he was instructed 
to send some trustworthy person with us to the 
ship to receive them. 

Since leaving Fernando Po, I have not met with 
any people so much degraded as these. It is true, 


GREAT DEARTH OF FUEL. 


97 


that we have all along found the natives, except 
the children, naore or less clothed, but here I was 
surprised to find elderly women with only a few 
leaves suspended from a string round their waists, 
with pipes in their mouths, and exhibiting the 
greatest unconcern. This is the same race of peo- 
ple I saw at Gandiko, and at first, I suspected 
they were Filani slaves, but upon enquiry, I was 
told they were free persons. It appears that these 
aged people would not change even the most un- 
civilized of their habits, though after their country 
had fallen into the hands of the Filanis, the men 
and other women adopted a better mode of cloth- 
ing. 

September 19 : There was nothing to be pro- 
cured here, neither sheep, goats, fowls, nor even 
wood ; we, therefore, returned to the ship. Dr. 
Baikie requested the mallam to inform Mohamma, 
the king of Hamaruwa, that we would call on him 
on our way back in a few days. The mallam 
came to see the ship, and we managed to get 
some more information from him, and then got 
under weigh, in hopes of being able to find some 
trees suitable for fuel at Tshomo, the next vil- 
lage, where we were told we should get plenty. 
The steam could hardly be kept up, and we were, 
consequently, obliged to drop anchor several times, 
the current running upwards of three knots against 
us ; but about four o’clock we were pushed forward 
by a tornado from the eastward. The river takes a 
northerly direction about this place, and we saw 
two villages at the back of the swamp, and the 

F 


98 


CHASE AFTER FLOATING TREES. 


town of Hamaruwa was visible from the mast- 
head, on a hill at the foot of the chain of Muri 
mountains. At six, we came to an anchor, in 
hopes of getting some fuel, the quantity on board 
being scarcely sufficient to get up steam. We had 
made about eleven miles from Zhiru. 

September 20 : The boat was early sent on 
shore to see what wood could be obtained, but no- 
thing was found suitable to our purpose, the trees 
being all green and sappy, and standing in swamps, 
where the men could not have maintained their 
footing, had the trees been such as we wanted. 
Another boat was sent higher up, to see if there 
was a village near, but it returned without finding 
one. As there was no alternative, a look out was 
kept to capture the trees floating down the stream ; 
and two were secured before breakfast, the chase 
affording us no little amusement. About ten another 
was chased and captured, so large that it pulled 
the boat a considerable way down the river, but 
it was secured, and greatly added to our little 
stock to enable us to get to Tshomo. In the 
meantime, Imoru, the mallam of Zhiru, came on 
board with the leg of a buffalo, killed last night 
for a present to Dr. Baikie. The doctor would have 
bought the head, but the superstition of the people 
was so strong against selling it, that they begged 
him not to be vexed at their denying him that re- 
quest, nor could they be persuaded to sell the skulls 
of hippopotami, which were piled up before the fetish, 
in the town of Zhiru. I asked the mallam whe- 
ther the people are willing to embrace Mohamedan- 


TSHOMO AND BOMANDA. 


99 


ism ? he said they were not. Imoru very earnestly 
told Aliheli to ask me if I would pray for his 
wives, as they had no children. I at once called 
for my Bible, and read Psalm cxxvii., which I 
tried to explain to him, and showed him my arms 
and neck, to prove that we never used charms for 
any purpose ; telling him that we resign all our 
affairs to the hand of God, who knows better what 
is good for us. He was quite satisfied with my 
exj)lanation, though he felt disappointed of his 
hopes. Imoru told us, that we should meet the 
king’s messenger near Tshomo. 

September 21 : Having succeeded in securing 
enough floating trees and drift wood to get up 
steam, we started this morning, and about noon 
several villages were seen at some distance on both 
sides of the river, which were Bomanda. on the 
right, and Little Tshomo on the left side of the 
river : all situated on the 'plain, but sufficiently 
elevated to insure their not being flooded at the 
rising of the Binue, which is very considerable. 
Opposite Little Tshomo, we saw five men on a 
tree in the swamp, who had been stationed there 
to invite us to anchor ; the canoe which brought 
them there had returned to inform the chief of 
our approach. A little further on we saw a large 
number of people on the roofs of their houses 
to look at the steamer, while others waited at 
the landing-place to invite us to anchor, but as 
there was no wood to be obtained there, and we 
were told that at Great Tshomo we should get 
abundance, we did not wait. In a short time se- 

Y 2 


100 


ALARM OF VISITORS. 


veral canoes began making towards us, and as we 
had to anchor every now and then to get up 
the steam, they soon came up to us, and after 
a little persuasion came alongside. The principal 
persons were the brother of the late king of Ha- 
maruwa, a son of the late king, and Ibrahim, 
entitled, Sariki n Haussa, an intelligent Filani of 
Kano, w'ho was master of the Haussa language, 
and the king’s messenger. He appears to be the 
chief trader of the king of Hamaruwa. In a little 
time they were at home in the ship, and became 
familiar friends. But a laughable scene of fear and 
confusion soon took place ; the steam was up, and 
the vessel weighed ; no sooner had the fan began 
to play, than the canoe-men, one after the other 
leaped overboard, and swam to their canoes in great 
consternation ; it was with much persuasion that 
I kept the king’s brother from following their ex- 
ample. The engine was stopped, and those who 
wished it, left the ship. '^bhose who felt more 
confidence remained with Ibrahim and the king’s 
brother till the afternoon, when we were short of 
fuel again, and were obliged to anchor about two 
miles below Tshomo. The report of the ship had 
reached the king the evening we anchored off 
Zhiru, and Ibrahim was despatched by him the 
next morning to wait our arrival off Tshomo, and 
to ascertain who we were, and what our objects, 
as well as to express his wish to see two messen- 
gers from the king of the ship to substantiate the 
report which had reached him, respecting the Ana- 
sara’s ship on his waters, Ibrahim said, moreover, 


JOUKNEY TO HAMARUWA. 


101 


that the king would accompany the messengers to 
see the ship himself. But as we had not got to 
Tshomo, and there was no appearance of wood on 
either side of the river, Dr. Baikie could give no 
positive answer, but sent the messenger on shore 
to wait till to-morrow. 

September 22 : The heavy pieces of wood which 
remained on board were split, and some empty 
casks, not much wanted, were broken up to get 
up steam. About breakfast, Ibrahim and the king’s 
eldest son were again on board, and repeated their 
request for two messengers to accompany him to 
Hamaruwa, according to the wishes of the king. 
As I am not yet master of the Haussa language, 
the only thing we could do, was to take Aliheli 
as interpreter, and Mr. Richards and myself offered 
to go with him to the king. This met the Doctor’s 
wishes, and about ten a.m., we left the ship in 
the gig, with Ibrahim, with instructions to send 
the boat back as soon as we landed, which we 
supposed would be immediately at the village of 
Tshomo. A mile and a half from the ship brought 
us to Gurowa, called the king’s farm, on the right 
bank, built on a small elevation beyond the rising 
of the water. Ibrahim landed here, and brought 
something with him into the boat ; the Filani chief 
also, Shiroma Bukari, came on board to salute us, 
and returned on shore. This village is inhabited 
by the king’s slaves to cultivate corn, and kill 
hippopotami, buffaloes, &c., for the use of their 
master. Two miles more brought us to Tshomo, situ- 
ated on the same side of the river, on two small 


102 PKOGRESS THROUGH A GRASSY CREEK. 


eminences separated by a small creek, but inhabited 
chiefly by the original natives, many of the females; 
being as destitute of clothing as those of Zhiru. 
The mothers were seen carrying children in their 
arms, or on their backs, with the hands of the 
infants beneath their arms, by which they were 
held fast. Here again I was struck with wonder, 
at the low and degraded state of the human race, 
when removed from all civilization. I asked Ibra- 
him, why they had no clothes, and he said, it was 
their fashion. I asked for the chief, and he pointed 
out an elderly grey-bearded man, standing under 
a tree near the. water-side, with only a small piece 
of dirty cloth round his waist — this was the Sariki 
of Tshomo. Before Ibrahim left the town, he man- 
aged to squeeze a laige calabash full of Indian com, 
and some quantity of stinking hippopotamus flesh 
from them, because they did not provide for him 
when he passed the night in that village. I had 
always considered the natives of Fernando Po to 
be the most uncivilized I have seen, but this people 
is more degraded than even the Bubis of that 
Island. 

The creek which divides Tshomo had not enough 
water for our boat, so we had to pull through the 
flooded com fields to get into the main creek, but 
as the whole was overgrown with grass and corn 
stocks, Ibrahim was obliged to get one of the 
canoe-men to take the lead. Our Krumen did 
not like either the appearance of our guide, or the 
passage he was leading us through. As a fisher 
and hunter of hippopotami, he had with him five or 


UNEXPECTED LENGTH OF JOURNEY. 


10.3 


six harpoons or spears, and pulled through the 
grass with his narrow canoe like a snake, while 
the grass was so thick that we could not see him 
ahead of us, nor ])erceive the track of his canoe. 
However, we followed in his direction, till we met 
him under a tree where he w^aited for us. We 
had here to stoop beneath the low branches, but 
a short distance brought us to the main creek. 
The bank being only partially covered with w'ater, 
the men jumped out and dragged the boat across, 
and our pilot then left us to ourselves. I called 
the attention of Friday, the head Kruman, to mark 
the direction of the tree, that they might not miss 
the way on their return, but captain Friday and 
his crew did not seem to relish the idea of return- 
ing alone among this rude and apparently fero- 
cious people. We followed the creek, thinking 
we should soon come to the landing-place, but 
contrary to our expectation, we did not land till 
one o'clock p.m., four hours after leaving the ship, 
our progress having been down with the stream 
since we came into the creek, wdiich runs parallel 
with the river. From all the enquiries we had 
made, Ilamaruwa did not apj)ear to be more than 
six or seven miles from the river ; and considering 
the distance we had made down the creek, I 
thought we must have been at least three or four 
miles nearer than if we had landed immediately 
on the bank of the main river. It seemed to me 
that if the Krumen had to return with the boat 
against the stream, in the circuitous creek, they 
would not get to the ship before dark ; and under 


104 


FATIGUE OF THE KEUMEN. 


the impression that an hour or an hour and a half 
at least would bring us to Hamaruwa, and tliat 
we might be back by five, and return to the ship 
together, especially as there was no other convey- 
ance for us except two miserable patched canoes, 
used to fetch com from the plantations ; I ordered 
the boat to be pulled up, and lea%’ing it and all 
belonging to it to the care of the headman of the 
village of Wuzu, we started for Hamaruwa. An 
hour’s walk brought us in sight of the first farm 
village, which I at first took to be the capital or 
its suburbs, but I was mistaken, and was told the 
town was yet before us. Another hour brought 
us to a second farm village, and our way led al- 
most direct west towards the furthest mountains 
we had left westward. By the time we had tra- 
velled three hours, the Krumen who were as much 
deceived as ourselves, became very much dissatis- 
fied, and they expressed regret that they had not 
returned to the ship, instead of going such an un- 
pleasant journey in which they had no interest. 
Truly it was unpleasant, inasmuch as we were de- 
ceived as regards the distance, and the road was 
by no means enviable to walk in. We had not 
left Wuzu half an hour before I was obliged to 
take off my shoes, and roll up the legs of my 
trousers to my knees, as did Mr. Richards, to wade 
through the continued splash of water and mud 
we met with more than one-third the way. I 
kept pace with Ibrahim in hopes of sighting the 
town so as to convey the intelligence to my weary 
companions for their encouragement, but we saw 


ARRIVAL AT HAMARUWA. 


105 


nothing up to about four o’clock, when we came 
under a tree which was a resting place. I stopped 
Ibrahim, to wait for the Krumen and Mr. Rich- 
ards, who were yet a great way behind, when Ibra- 
him to encourage me, said, we had made a little 
more than half way. While we were waiting, he 
performed his devotion. I told my servant to 
climb up the tree, and hail the interpreter, *^vhich 
he did for a long while, when IMr. Richards an- 
swered at a distance, that they were coming. He 
was obliged to beg water for the Krumen at one 
of the villages, for they were hungry, having 
missed their midday meal ; and they felt it much, 
as well as the fatigue of a journey for which they 
were unprepared, to an unknown place among a 
strange people, who were only known to them as 
slave hunters through the country. Mr. Richards 
told me that he had hard work to persuade them 
onward. I encouraged them by reminding them 
that we were all similarly situated, but felt sorry 
for them as they might have got back, and thus 
avoided all this trouble. It was sunset before 
we entered the town of Ilamaruwa, and calcida- 
ting from the halts we made, and the great diffi- 
culty of walking in water and mud one-third of 
the way, that we did not travel more than two 
miles and a half per hour from Wuzu; we must 
have gone twelve miles and a half in a westerly 
direction before reaching the place. When we 
got half way into the town, Ibrahim showed us 
the king’s house, into which he went, giving his 
companion directions to lead us to his own, at the 


106 


THE king’s hospitality. 


other end of the town, where we were lodged. It 
took us about twenty minutes to walk to it; and all 
our party were glad to rest themselves, hungry 
and fatigued with so long a joimney. About eight 
o’clock P.M., the king sent eight bowls of provision 
for us, enough for thirty persons, we being but 
eleven in all ; but the Krumen, though hungry, 
did n^h like the Filani food, called tuo, made from 
Indian or guinea corn, in substance like hard 
dumpling, over which sauce was poured, and which 
is eaten with the fingers.* One of the men would 
not eat at all, so I gave him some biscuits we had 
brought for lunch, but had not touched on the 
way. Ibrahim sent two more bowls of tuo in ad- 
dition to the king’s supply, besides some nice mix- 
ture of fiira, prepared from Indian or guinea corn, 
to’ be mixed in water for a nice cooling drink, 
with sometimes a little pepper and honey added 
to make it more pleasant. The king sent five 
sheep and lambs, with a kid, six in all, and a 
large pot of plum honey for our entertainment; 

• The following description of the Yoruba method of eating their 
food is taken from Miss Tucker’s Abbeokuta, p. 26, and will illus- 
trate this passage : — The repast “ consists of balls of Indian corn, 
called ‘ denge,' served up in a kind of strong sauce made of beef, 
mutton, fish, or fowl, with various vegetables, and seasoned with 
salt procured from the Popos, and with Cayenne pepper, which 
grows in the country. * * * When about to partake of the food, 
a large earthen bowl is placed on the ground, containing the 
deng^ and the sauce ; and the party sit dow'n round it. The balls 
of Indian corn are taken out of the bowl, broken and distributed 
to the different persons, each of whom dips his portion into the 
sauce as he eats it. There is a good deal of animal food consumed 
in this way, but it is never eaten solid.” From p. 117 it appears 
that the sauce of Ilamaruwa is made with cow butter. 


A NIGHT AT HAMARUWA. 


107 


but unfortunately, before the honey was delivered, 
the pot broke, and the whole was spilled in the 
yard, to the great grief of all present. Ibrahim 
came with much sorrow to tell me of this great 
misfortune, and I must say, I felt the loss myself, 
because it would have been a very acceptable 
present to all the ship’s company, considering that 
since the fourth instant we had been out of sugar. 
Butter and milk had been all consumed long be- 
fore, and a pot of honey would have been an in- 
valuable substitute. But travellers must take things t 
as they come, and be content with such things as I 
they have. The Filanis use no lamps in their 
houses in the evening, we had therefore to remain 
outside the house where we were lodged, seated 
in the dark, as they themselves did, till bed time, 
when a few sticks were kindled which gave out 
much smoke and little light, to enable us to ascer- 
tain the position of our bed, which was rough 
enough. Before we turned in, Ibrahim requested 
me to take care of my sheep and goat in our 
room, for fear of the wolves with which the country 
abounds. I told him it was impossible to admit 
five sheep and a goat into a room already filled with 
eleven occupants, and he promised to take care of 
them for us till the morning. Ibrahim’s yard was 
full of visitors going and coming, to whom he was 
relating the wonderful news of the Anasara’s ship 
made of iron, and moved by fire. Being tired 
with our journey, we left them to enjoy the story, 
and rested ourselves after we had ofi'ered a })rayer 
of thanksgiving to God for his protection. 


108 


INTERVIEW WITH THE KING. 


Septemher 23 : I intended to pay an early visit 
to the king, and deliver my message, but he de- 
termined upon our drinking water first, that is 
taking breakfast before we commenced business ; 
in the mean time be would summon all bis bead 
chiefs to hear the message from the king of the 
ship. About eight A.M., breakfast was brought in 
as last night, but the Krumen could not eat it. 
However, Aliheli succeeded in begging some cas- 
sada for them, which they greedily devoured. I 
was Sony that we were so situated as regards pro- 
vision on account of the Krumen, and there was 
no rice to be had, which is their proper food ; I 
therefore opened a small tin of sardines we took 
with us yesterday for our lunch, and gave it to 
them with the remaining biscuits to make the best 
of it they could. At ten A.M., a message came 
from the king that he was ready to see me. With- 
out loss of time, we soon marched with a large 
party of Filanis to the king’s palace ; and after 
having waited a short time under a tree in the 
street, while our arrival was announced, we were 
invited in. Large curtains of country cloth were 
suspended without and within before the throne ; 
all the courtiers put off their sandals outside the 
entrance into the hall, and stuck their long spears, 
which they carry about with them as walking 
sticks, into the ground close by them. Besides 
Mr. Richards and Aliheli, I took Friday our head 
Kruman and another into the king’s palace, that 
they might see another court besides their own; 
as all the courtiers sat on the ground, we did the 


HIS COUKT AND APPAREL. 


109 


same close before the king. He was richly dressed, 
in tobes made of bi’oad yellow and green silk rib- 
bands, and a rich yellow cashmei’e cloak, all of 
European manufacture, thrown over the tobes, and 
a rich carpet was spread at his feet. He had on 
a native cap, wrapped round with a white turban, 
and was seated on a mud bank richly adorned, 
which served for a throne. He was about forty 
years of age, thin in person, and rather darkish in 
complexion, but of an intelligent countenance. 
As soon as we were seated before him, he saluted 
us many times over, in the Eilani language, which 
Ibrahim interpreted in Haussa, and Aliheli into 
English. — He was very glad to see us. It was true 
he expressed his wishes to see some one from the 
white men’s ship. His father had been king and 
his brother succeeded him, but they never heard 
of a white man’s ship coming to their country, 
nor had they seen any one fiom the white man’s 
country, as he had seen us. He thanked God for 
this peculiar favour ; and now he was ready to hear 
what message we brought from the king of the ship. 
— I then told him that our Queen had heard of his 
kingdom a long time, and of the large river which 
runs through it, as well of the Kowara which runs 
through Yauri and liabba ; that ships have visited 
the latter several times for the purpose of trade, 
and that it was the Queen’s wish also, to see 
whether this river was as navigable as the Kowara, 
and for that purpose had sent the Sariki of tho 
ship to see what sort of water it was, and the 
countries through which it runs, as well to make 


110 


ABUNDANCE OF IVOEY. 


enquiry after a white man who had visited Yola 
sometime ago, and returned to Sokoto, hut promised 
to return to some part of the bank of the Binue 
to wait for the ship : that the king of the ship 
hearing of his wish to visit the ship, had sent me 
to invite him on board, and would be very glad 
to see him. I particularly urged him to get his 
subjects to cut wood for us to buy, and said that 
we would purchase about three hundred loads, in 
hopes of getting at least half that quantity if pos- 
sible. There was plenty of dry wood in the way 
to Hamaruwa, but at the distance of five or six 
miles from the river, which made it difficult of 
carriage. He had not heard of Dr. Barth’s visit 
to Yola, but Ivnew that a white man was at Sokoto 
about two years ago : as to the river, there is he said, 
always plenty of water till next moon, when it would 
begin to fall and become very shallow. He wanted 
to know whether the ship intended to stop here 
and trade, or to pass higher up, that he might 
know what directions to give ; but if any thing 
should happen to her, he should be blamed by 
Sariki Mussulmins (the king of the Mussulmins,) 
the Sultan of Sokoto, for neglecting to give proper 
information. I told him when he saw the Sariki 
of the ship, they might enter into those particulars. 
As to trade, he promised if the ship would stay, 
to get as much ivory as she could carry in a short 
time. He excused himself from visiting the ship 
at this time, saying, that as he has seen us, it 
was as good as if he had seen the king of the 
ship himself, and he was very thankful for my 


WRITING WITHOUT INK. 


Ill 


coming at his request. >1 urged that it was worth 
his while to visit the ship, w’hich indeed was like 
a large house, as Ibrahim could tell him from actual 
knowledge ; but he declined, and said he would 
think of it by the time the ship returned from 
Adamawa, if she was going up, and that he would 
communicate with the king of the ship by writing, 
respecting the water and the country between this 
and Yola, which was hostile to the Filanis. I 
then called the king’s attention to the Heathen 
population in his territory, who I perceived still 
continued in their idolatrous practices. I told him 
he was aware we were Anasaras, and they Mus- 
sulmins, and asked whether he would have any 
objection, if trade should be established between 
us and them, to our making an attempt to teach 
and civilize the Heathens in his territory, according 
to our way? With a smile he replied, that it wns 
all the same, he was willing : the smile, in which 
his courtiers joined, seemed to imply, — you may try 
if you can succeed. I then presented him with 
the red cloak which Dr. Baikie gave me for him, 
and told him that I would report every thing he 
had said to the king of the ship. But he had 
been told by some one of the wonder I was per- 
forming in writing without ink, and yet, an im- 
pression was made on the paper ; he therefore 
requested me to write that he might see : I stepped 
close to him, and wrote Sarilci Jlamaruwa, (the 
King of Hamaruwa,) and he was not a little amused 
to see the words drop on the paper as the pencil 
moved on. Having closed my interview with Mo- 


112 


PRESENTS FROM THE KING. 


hamma by this wonderful performance, I left the 
court with heartfelt gratitude to God, for the suc- 
cess we had met with. Ibrahim remained with 
the king, and requested me to wait for him at 
home. I had told the king that I must return 
to the ship immediately, because I had not had 
an idea of the distance, and was expected on board 
last night, and that if we did not return soon, the 
anxiety of the gentlemen would be increased as 
regards our safety. We waited till noon, but no 
letter from the king had yet arrived. Ibrahim 
returned, and told me to wait a little more ; and 
about one P.M., thinking it would facilitate our pro- 
gress, I sent the Krumen away with two men 
from Ibrahim, to lead the goat and sheep onward 
till we should overtake them. I began to fear 
we should not get on board to-day, even if we 
succeeded in getting to Wuzu on the bank of the 
creek : in short it was not till three o’clock that 
the letter was got ready, and brought to my lodg- 
ing, where it was read by the mallam who wrote it, 
and interpreted to me by Ibrahim in Haussa. The 
king wished me to come to the Palace before 
I left the town, which I did in my way; and I 
waited outside, while he ordered Ibrahim to pre- 
sent me with a blue tobe of country manufac- 
ture, which was put on me, and a large blue 
country cloth for Dr. Baikie. They had been trying 
to catch a bullock for us to take to the Doctor, 
but the animals were so wild, that they could not 
succeed, but he promised to send one in a day 
or two. He replaced the lost honey by another 


A NIGHT AT WDZU. 


113 


pot ; and a calabash full of fresh milk, and about 
two pounds weight of fresh butter were added to our 
presents ; thus I took leave of Hamaruwa. On 
the way, I was told that the king was very glad 
indeed to see us, otherwise, we should not have 
had so early an interview ; that many times, mes- 
sengers from the interior had to wait thirty days 
before they could see him ; that after we had left 
the palace, he sent one slave out to barter for 
three tobes to present to us, but the maker of the 
tobes was unwilling to give more than two tobes for 
one slave ; and that the king was obliged to borrow 
the one he presented to me, hoping to be able to 
get the other two for Mr. Eichards and Aliheli, 
when we returned again to Hamaruwa. I was 
glad at last to get on our way; but I doubted 
very much whether we should be able to reach the 
ship that night. It was not till eight o’clock P.M., 
that we reached Wuzu, and I was glad to meet 
the Krumen all there in safety. I told Ibrahim 
to make ready for our embarkation for the ship, 
but he was afraid of being attacked by hippopo- 
tami in the night in the bush, through which we 
made our way to the creek yesterday morning. 
As there was no alternative, we consented to pass 
the night at Wuzu, though we had nothing to eat, 
but a little dry Indian corn which the Krumen 
parched for their supper. Wuzu being infested 
with musquitoes, not one of us had a wink of 
sleep till day-light, every one being occupied all 
night in brushing away the swarms of these insects 
from their persons. In and out of the house the 


114 


MUSQUITOES AND WOLVES. 


pest was the same ; so that I sat with the Krumen 
near the fire which was kept up hy three sticks, 
and constantly fed with grass till break of day. 
Although we had no change of clothes, and no 
covering, except what we had on when we left 
the ship, with which we waded through the water 
in our way to and from the town ; we were better off 
than the Krumen who had nothing to protect their 
naked persons, and so they were more annoyed 
than we were. Towards cock-crewing, the cry of 
a wolf was heard a short distance from us. No 
doubt it was attracted by the scent of the sheep 
and goat tied in the yard where we lodged ; the 
men had told us that the creatures were not safe 
where they were, but as we had no where else to 
put them, I left them to the chance of escaping 
during the night, or being carried away by prowling 
wild beasts. I sat down close by, actually watching 
whether the wolf would come after the sheep, not 
to defend them, but merely to witness the attack 
in the habitation of man ; — the fire kept blazing 
by the Krumen seems to have kept it off. When 
going to Ilamaruwa on Friday, the carcase of a 
horse shot by mistake in the night by the farmers, 
was lying close to the road, but on our return 
next day, it was gone, carried away by the hungry 
wolves; so numerous are they, tliat the people go 
about always armed, ready to defend themselves 
against their attack. 

September 24 : Sunday. As soon as it was day- 
light wo hastened into the boat. The river lias 
risen very much since Friday, so that the creek 


SAFE RETURN TO THE SHIP. 


115 


has become an expansive sheet of water, and we 
were enabled to make a short cut into the main 
river, and about half-past seven o’clock, A.M., reached 
the ship to the gi’eat joy of all on board. Many 
and various thoughts had arisen about us, and every 
additional day and night of delay increased the 
anxiety. The joy was more than could be ex- 
pressed in words, when they saw us arrive in safety, 
and with a good report of our recejitiou. As the 
king had refused to come on board. Dr. Baikie at 
once determined to set out on a visit to his majesty. 
Having given him every information that he might 
prepare himself for the journey with less disadvan- 
tages than we, he, accompanied by Dr. Hutchinson 
and Mr. Guthrie, the chief engineer, left the ship 
about noon for Hamaruwa. At two P.M., I kept 
the afternoon service, and read the first part of the 
second Homily upon the Fall and Misery of 
Man, &c. 

The town of Hamaruwa is beautifully situated 
on a hill, rising on the south side of the range of 
the Muri mountains on the west side of the Binue. 
It commands a fine and extensive view. The river 
is seen stretching along like a narrow strip of white 
cloth, between the shades of light green grass, 
which fringes the water’s edge, and a little further 
back is the darker green of trees, and then the 
blue ranges of Fumbina, with the lofty Mauranu 
mountain in Adamawa, on the left, and the Muri 
mountain in Hamaruwa, with their many fanciful 
peaks, on the right side, each at a distance of 
twelve miles from the river. In the valleys be- 


116 


HAILVEUWA — THE TOWN, 


low the town, from one to two hundred beautiful 
cattle were feeding, and this gave life to the 
scenery. The houses are round, with conical roofs, 
built mostly of mud, about twenty or twenty-four 
feet in diameter. Many of these round houses 
are built in the premises of each master or head 
of a family, and enclosed with platted grass or 
fences which screen the whole group from the gaze 
of passers by. A narrow public street runs from 
one end of the town to the other, fenced in on 
both sides with grass, with now and then a lane 
or cross street. Except where the fences had been 
neglected, the inner yard of a group of huts was 
not visible from the street. Now and then the 
front of some premises is open to the street, and 
the people pass their time there in the heat of 
the day, under the shade of trees. If the town 
of Hamaruwa were regularly laid out, according to 
the plan of a civilized country, it would present 
a very delightful appearance ; but at the time of 
our visit, many houses had fallen in, and the sites 
were overgrown with grass ; others were planted with 
guinea corn, while a large portion were only par- 
tially fenced in and cultivated. The town, though 
situated on a hill, with a rocky substratum, is yet 
sandy, and thus dries immediately after the fall of 
the rain ; and though situated at the foot of the Muri 
range, yet is not so near as to sutler any inconve- 
nience from it. At night there was perfect silence 
in the town, no singing or drumming was hoard, 
and the absence of light in the houses added to the 
dead stillness of the night. The inhabitants have 


FIELDS AND MARKET, 


117 


no palm-oil, shea butter, nor nut oil for lights, and 
their sauce is made with cow butter. Cowries are 
not used, nor any other medium of circulation, but 
all is done by exchange, as in Zhibu. I had not 
time enough to inspect their market, but I think 
it must be very poor, and nothing like those held 
on the banks of the Kowara, and westward to the 
sea-coast. They procure water at the foot of the 
mountains, at a distance of nearly half-an-hour, 
and it is brought by the wmmen in earthern 
pitchers, borne on the shoulder, because the mode 
of dressing their hair, plaited like a ridge, does 
not allow them to carry loads on their heads ; 
many, however, who are not so circumstanced as 
to keep their hair always dressed in that manner, 
bear burdens on their head. Very few goats and 
sheep were seen in the town, and no fowls ; per- 
haps, all these creatures are kept at their farms 
under the care of their slaves, but from the diffi- 
culty of purchasing any for the use of the ship, I 
think they can possess very few. The difficulty 
in getting horses to carry us from Hamaruwa to 
the river side, may, in like manner, be taken as 
a proof that they do not possess many, or else 
they did not wish to hire out their war horses for 
such a journey. Their slaves are chiefly employed 
in their plantations of Indian and guinea corn; 
but there is very little rice, although thousands of 
bushels of the latter might be cultivated to feed 
millions of people, the banks of the Binue being 
particularly adapted for the cultivation of this 
plant, after the fall of its mighty waters. The 


118 


CUSTOMS OF THE PEOPLR 


Filani themselves being military men, do not make 
agriculture their chief employment. They are very 
dirty in their apparel. It would seem that from 
the time tobes, shirts, trousers, and other garments 
are put on new, they are never wetted, except it 
be by rain, till they are worn to rags. With the 
majority, the tobes and shirts constitute their ap- 
parel by day, and their covering by night, and 
the trousers are often used as bags, in which corn 
or other things are carried. The reader may ima- 
gine what an amount of filth and vermin is thus 
accumulated. The females are cleaner in their ap- 
parel, and bestow more pains in plaiting their hair, 
and ornamenting it with flat pieces of brass, and 
lead, and copper rings, which are fastened on them 
in a fanciful manner. Large brass, lead, or iron 
ear-rings are suspended in their ears, and larger 
and ponderous rings of the same metals are worn 
round their arms, wrists, and legs, according to the 
means of the wearers ; these metals, and some silver 
come across from the desert to the Bornu and 
Haussa countries, whence they are purchased from 
JVloorish merchants, and brought to this part of the 
country, the traders receiving in return slaves and 
ivory. Many of the rings are manufactured in 
Kano and Katshina, in the Ilaussa country, and 
there are some Kano brass- workers even at Hama- 
ruwa, who are carrying on their trade with much 
success ; some specimens were bought from them. 
Ur. Baikie bought a pair of brass leglets, weigh- 
ing five pounds, for which the man asked 45,000 
cowries, the price of a slave, but he took much less. 


TRADE IN SLAVES AND IVORY. 


119 


Traders from Kano and Katshina visit Hamamwa 
in large caravans, and sometimes pass onward with 
other parties to Adamawa, where they purchase 
slaves and ivory, the former carrying the latter, 
and both are sold to the Moors in Kano or Bornu. 
There is a Katshina man here, who is trading for 
an Arab in slaves and ivory. He is the merchant 
who brought the suit of silk dresses and carpets in 
which the king appeared on Saturday, and which 
he sold to his majesty for fifty slaves, d hese have 
not all been paid, but when that has been done, 
another suit, still in the possession of the merchant, 
will be purchased. The slaves are used at the same 
time as beasts of burden, loaded with ivory, and 
marched to Katshina, Kano, or Bornu ; in this way 
tons of ivory are yearly carried away from the 
banks of the Binue, and the country is depopulated 
by the slave-dealing Filanis. Sometimes the ivory 
and slaves find their way to the west of the 
Kowara, and thence to the coast. Two routes to 
Yola from Ilamaruwa were given us by Ibrahim ; 
the one of fourteen stages, of nearly a day’s journey 
each, round the Fuinbina mountains, circuitous but 
safe, being occupied by, or under the influence 
of the Filani.s, and the other very short, of only 
four day’s journey along the left side of the Binue, 
but so dangerous, that a part of the journey 
must be performed in the night. The part of 
the country where the natives are hostile to the 
Filani traveller, is called Zena, and its inhabitants 
are said to possess many horses. The otlier un- 
subdued native tribes who are so much dreaded. 


120 


HOSTILE TRIBES. 


are the Batshama, Bula, and Dampsa. We have 
been many times warned to take care of ourselves 
when we come in contact with them ; for they 
are sure, we are told, to attack us, none of them 
being able to speak the Haussa or Filani languages, 
so that we shall not be able to communicate with 
them. On the back of Muri range, behind the 
town of Hamaruwa, are tribes of Pagans, called 
Wuruku and Zangale, who are said to be cannibals, 
and go about naked, some of whom have been 
conquered, and are now subject to the Filanis. 
Ibrahim was very proud of giving us the names 
of the principal states under Filani governors, who 
communicate direct with the sultan of Sokoto. 
They will be mentioned with the route to Yola 
in a subsequent page. 

September 25 : A great number of people visited 
the ship to bargain for clothes, in which they are very 
deficient : for their knives, spears, bows and arrows, 
rings, swords, wood, salt, &c., they asked for cloth, 
and very little for other things in comparison. When 
they were thus engaged, it was very difficult to direct 
their attention to other things, every one being de- 
sirous to get what he could. Some rich Haussa 
traders brought swords, tobes, c&c., from Katshina 
and Kano to he sold on board ; the swords are said 
to be made by the Gadamawa, whom I could not 
otherwise make out than as the Moors of Gadamis. 
The red silky wool is said to he brought by the same 
people in its dyed state, and sold in the Haussa 
country. In the evening, Mr. Guthrie arrived alone, 


FAILURE OF FUEL. 


121 


having left Dr. Hutchinson at Wuzu waiting for Dr. 
Baikie, who had not then arrived. 

September 26 : About noon, Drs. Baikie and 
Hutchinson arrived. Dr. Baikie travelled yesterday 
alone, without a guide, and no horse. He missed 
his way, and was benighted in the bush, so that he 
was obliged to climb a tree, and pass the night in it. 
During the night, he heard the cry of leopards not far 
from him. The situation was a very dangerous one 
in a country so infested with beasts of prey; and 
we were all very thankful that nothing worse had 
happened, as God has thus far prospered us in our 
journey. 

September 27 : As there was no prospect of 
getting wood, and the season was advancing, it 
was decided that the steamer should proceed no 
further, but Dr. Baikie and Mr. May took boat for 
three day’s sail higher up the river, leaving the 
mate in charge of the ‘‘ Pleiad ” till their return 
on Saturday. The other boat was sent to Wuzu, 
to kill two bullocks which the king had given to 
Dr. Baikie, for they were too wild to be brought 
to the ship in the little boat. Both boats being 
away, we could not communicate with the village 
till nearly the evening ; when the mate Avent on 
shore, and came back, with a report that the river 
was falling. The apparent fall, however, was merely 
the cessation of the rapid flow, occasioned by a 
sudden copious supply from heavy rain, and, in fact, 
the river had not yet arrived at its height. 

September 28 : Early this morning the mate 
went on shore again, and reported that the rive 

G 


122 


FALL OF THE RIVER. 


had fallen two feet, and that he had been informed 
that it would not rise higher this year. Those 
interested about the ship advised her dropping down 
at once. I did not like leaving the two Govern- 
ment officers behind, among a strange people in 
an unknown country. If anything should happen 
to them, how were we to know of it at Zhibu, a 
distance of upwards of one hundred miles down 
the river, where it was proposed we should wait 
for them, trading meanwhile with the natives? 
The result proved, that the “ Pleiad ” might have 
stopped a fortnight longer off Gurowa; but under 
the circumstances, it W'as thought better to weigh 
anchor, and the ship began to drop. While the 
steam was being got up, the boat was sent for 
all hands from shore, and thus I was disappointed 
of my purpose, to spend some time on shore to 
ascertain the religious rites of the people, and by 
quiet conversation to collect as much information 
from them as I could. On Tuesday night, a buf- 
falo, a leopard, a crocodile, and some ground pigs 
killed by some hunters, were brought to the village 
of Gurowa. No sooner had the hunters arrived 
with their prey, than shoutings, loud cries, and 
shrieks were heard in the village, in praise of the 
gods who had thus given them success in their ex- 
pedition, and a great part of the night was spent 
in singing and drumming. The heads of the ani- 
mals were cut off, and dedicated to the gods as 
their portion, being placed in the front of the gods’ 
house. All Wednesday was spent in the same 
manner, shrieking and crying the praises of the 


RETURN OF THE STEAMER- 


123 


gods. The head of the crocodile being a fine speci- 
men, Mr. Dalton persuaded the hunters to sell it, 
but he had to pay a good round sum before the 
gods could be deprived of their rights. Although 
the village comprised no more than thirty or forty 
huts, yet it had two or three gods" houses. I asked 
a Haussa man resident in the place, whether 
none of the Djuku, who are Filani slaves in thir 
village, ever embrace Mohamedanism ? He said. 
No, never. I asked why they were not taught to 
w'orship as the Filanis do ? lie replied, Are they not 
slaves ? There is some improvement among them, 
however; and their females have substituted cloth 
for the leaves observed at Tshomo and other places. 

With little steam the ‘‘Pleiad” ran down the 
river like a shot ; in nine hours we made between 
sixty and seventy miles from Gurowa. All the 
high banks were completely covered, the river must 
have risen seven or eight feet since we went up 
about ten days ago. The country was flooded, on 
an average two miles inland, to the foot of high- 
land on both sides of the river ; creeks and large 
collections of lakes were visible to a great extent on 
both side.s, and this, in part, may account for the 
absence of towns and villages immediate!}' on the 
river’s hanks in this part of the country. 

September 29 : As there was no wood, we hedged 
down the river, which was difficult, on account of 
the number of islands, and the ship would not an- 
swer well to her helm without steam, though the 
fan was unshipped. Unfortunately, about four r.m., 
she drifted abreast of an island, and stuck fast in 

G 2 


124 


GROUNDING OF THE SHIP.. 


the imid, with a strong current on her starboard 
broadside ; attempts were made, but she could not 
be hove off this evening. - 

September 30 : Last night a terrific tornado blew, 
with copious rain, thunder, and lightning ; the ship 
was dashed against the bank with great violence by 
the strong wind and current, and driven more on to 
the bank. I felt less for our own situation than for 
those whom we left higher up in an open boat ; 
however, they were resigned to the care of that 
kind Providence by whom we have been preserved 
to the present time. Efforts were resumed to get 
the ship afloat ; every combustible material that 
could be spared, such as empty boxes, casks, useless 
paddles, &c., were split for fuel to get up steam to 
assist manual force, but, unfortunately it was dis- 
covered that the bilge injection was blocked up with 
the mud, so the engine would not work. The little 
steam was, therefore, blown off, and the only chance 
of getting afloat now, depended upon our personal 
exertions ; but nothing was effected to-day. From 
the rains of last night the river rose very percep- 
tibly, and this gave a good hope of success, though 
some began to entertain doubts of it, and to talk 
of her probable abandonment. Three canoes were 
seen on the other side of the river, but they would 
not come near us. 

October 1 : Sunday. The labour of getting 
the ship afloat, was resumed early this morning ; the 
Krumen worked hard, but repeated failures after 
many laborious attempts discouraged them much. 
The fear that she mieht have to be abandoned 


EXTREME POINT REACHED BY THE BOAT. 125 


was still entertained by some. I felt still more 
uncomfortable on account of Dr. Baikie and Mr. 
May who were left behind, and was very anxious 
for their return in safety. At noon, when we were 
at lunch, the Krumen, who likewise had been an- 
xiously looking out for the return of their country- 
men with the boat, gave loud cheers when they saw 
it coming at a great distance. We were all instantly 
on deck, and were glad to see the whole party safely 
on board. They had made a voyage of thirty miles 
higher up the river from Gurowa; and reached 
the following villages : — Tshomo, a mile from Gurowa 
on the right side; Lau, higher up on the left, Ban- 
dawa, Djin, Abiti, and Dulti. The people call them- 
selves Baibai, the same as the Djuku, or inhabitants 
of Kororofa. Batshama on the right, and Dampsi on 
the left, are independent of the Filanis, the other 
places are more or less under their control. They 
remain in their wild and uncivilized state ; at Dulti 
they live like amphibious creatures in their flooded 
village. Their propensity to pilfer became manifest 
from their rude familiarity, handling every thing 
about the gentlemen more than was pleasant, and an 
attempt to stop the boat, was a sufficient warning for 
the explorers to get out of the midst of this people 
with all speed ; while they were making their way 
out of the grassy creek, the natives pursued them 
in the canoes, if possible, to seize and detain the boat, 
with a view no doubt to plunder them ; nor did they 
return from pursuing them, till the boat had fairly got 
into the open river. Our party returned to Gurowa 
on Saturday morning, and were quite disappointed 


125 


EETURN OF THE BOAT. 


at not finding the “ Pleiad” there ; but they received 
notes informing them of the cause, and apprising 
them of our intention to drop down to Zhibu. They 
weathered the heavy tornado of Friday night in 
the open river, exposed to the inclemency of the 
weather, rain, thunder, and lightning. On Saturday, 
they attempted a new passage through a creek 
which they supposed would lead them to the main 
river a short distance below, hut instead of this, 
they were led to an extensive lakfe formed by an 
immense spread of water over a large space of 
ground on tlie left side of the river, and here they 
were obliged to pass the night, not reaching the open 
river till about half-past eight A.M. to-day. After 
not much more than three hours’ pull, they saw the 
“ Pleiad” at a distance, which they suspected was 
aground. AYe had much cause for thankfulness to 
God for bringing them back safely, after passing 
four nights in an open boat. All effoi’ts to get 
the ship afloat to-day were fruitless ; in consequence 
of this, we could have no service. At half-past 
seven p.bi., I read the Evening Prayers in the saloon, 
but only some of the officers could attend. 


CHAPTER IV. 


RETURM OF THE EXPEDITION — DEPOPULATED STATE OF THE 
COUNTRY — ITS TRADE, RELIGION, AND LANGUAGE — ZHIBU — 
ATTEMPT TO VISIT WUKART — SHUFFLING CONDUCT OF THE 
KING — GOODWILL OF THE CHIEFS AND PEOPLE — PROGRESS 
TO ANYISHI — FAVOURABLE INTERVIEW WITH AGBO AND 
THE NEIGHBOURING CHIEFS— VISIT TO ANDFO — OPPRESSION 
OF THE FILANIS — HUMILIATING POSITION OF THE CON- 
QUERED CHIEFS — INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF OF ROGAN- 
KOTO — REPORT OF THE MESSENGER FROM KEANA CON- 
CERNING THE TWO WHITE TRAVELLERS— EKEREKU — RAPA- 
CIOUS CONDUCT OF THE FILANIS ABATSHO MOHAMMA 

CHIEF OF PANDA — AMARAN MARKET — REPUBLIC OP YIM- 
MAHA — KINDLY RECEPTION THERE — -DESTRUCTION OF PANDA 
BY THE FILANIS — WILLINGNESS OP THE PANDA PEOPLE TO 
TRADE AND RECEIVE MISSIONARIES —RETURN TO THE CON- 
FLUENCE. 

October 2. The labour of getting the ship 
afloat, was resumed with the united efforts and 
assistance of Mr. May and Dr. Baikie ; and to the 
joy of us all, our object was effected about three 
P.M. ; the continued rising of the water greatly as- 
sisting us. At noon, a canoe was seen pulling up, 
and stopping among the grass to look at us ; 
she was hailed alongside : she came from Zhibu, 
about twenty miles below us, and had on board as 
passengers, two Haussa traders, men of Bautshi, 
who were returning from Zhibu with two slaves 
and some ivory which they had purchased. The 


128 DEPOPULATED STATE OF THE BANKS. 

ivory was bought from them in exchange for cowries 
and some goods ; the slaves sat in the canoe un- 
shackled, as there was no chance of their escape 
when travelling on the river, but they had on board 
the irons to secure them, two pairs of which were 
purchased by Dr. Baikie. Tlie canoe had to pass 
the night among the hushes, because there were no 
villages near the water-side for them to put in. I 
asked about the population of this part of the 
country, and was told that from Zhibu to the Akam, 
or Kankundi river, and five day’s journey inland 
from Zhibu, no human habitation is to he found. 
I asked, what had become of the inhabitants ? They 
replied, they had all been carried away captives 
to Sokoto. I asked of what nation were the slaves 
they had on board ; and they said they were Baibai, 
of the town of Gomkoi, a tribe of the inhabitants 
of Kororofa, who had retreated into the interior, and 
there maintained their independence in some hilly 
localities secure against the inroads of the Filanis. 
They said travellers must sleep five days in the 
bush before they reach Gomkoi. I asked whether 
the people of Gomkoi had horses ; they replied, 
that horses are taken across that way from Bautshi, 
and exchanged, five slaves for one horse. I showed 
them pieces of iron, called “ Kantai,” which I got 
from Hamaruwa, the use of which, I had not the 
opportunity of learning at the time. They said, 
they were used as currency, one hundred such 
pieces, being the average price of a slave. I asked 
whether the inhabitants of Gomkoi were Pagans or 
Mohameclans; and was informed, that they were 


SLAVE TRAFFIC. 


129 


all Pagans; that the males wore some sort of cloth 
around their loins, but the females, only a few 
green leaves. On asking whether they were can- 
nibals ; I was answered in the negative. I then 
inquhed the name of the country on the right side 
of the river. They said, Bautshi, and told me that 
we were nearly opposite the village of Dali, the 
smoke from which was visible ; from Dali one goes 
to Dampara, and then to Wazai, and on to Yakoba. 
I asked what language was spoken at Bautshi, and 
they said, the Haussa and Fdani, but that Ilaussa 
is the prevailing language, though the country be- 
longs to the Filanis, and that Mohamedanism is the 
prevailing religion. 

On their departure, I requested them to use the 
poor slaves kindly, the only help I could render to 
the poor unfortunate sufferers. When the traders 
were on board, a canoe was perceived issuing from 
the bush with five or six men in it ; on looking at it 
with the glass, the peojde were observed busy making 
some strange gesticulations towards the ship, as 
if they were performing some incantations, whether 
for her detention or departure, or invocation to her 
as a deity, we could not learn. The men were 
marked with white chalk in long streaks on their 
bodies, as worshippers of the gods are distinguished 
at the time of their devotion. They had been in 
sight about an hour, when the canoe from Zhibu 
came up to them, and I believe spoke to them. In 
a few moments they left the spot, and followed the 
track of the traders up the river, and both were 
soon lost sight of. 

G 3 


130 


ATTEMPT TO VISIT WUKARI. 


October 3 : Started at eight A.M., to drop down, 
and anchored off Zhihu at seven p.m. ; at eight 
o’clock, a gun was fired to announce our anival, 
the town being about a mile from the river. The 
high banks we left about three weeks ago were 
completely covered, and the flat ground overflowed 
a considerable distance ; the corn-flelds, where the 
people stood to sell their articles, and the chief rode 
about among them to keep them in order, and 
where our Krumen cut wood for fuel, were now navi- 
gable for boats and canoes to the very foot of 
the hill where the town of Zhihu stands. 

October 4 ; Early tliis morning we dropped a 
little lower down, for the convenience of wooding. 
Dr. Baikie, not feeling quite well, requested me to 
communicate with the chief, and to tell him of our 
intention to visit Wukari through him, and to ask 
him to supply us with horses and messengers to take 
us thither ; a velvet shirt was given me for him at 
the same time. Ha\’ing ascertained the possibility of 
visiting Wukari from this place, especially as mes- 
sengers from the king of Wukari were here, I re- 
turned on board to inform Dr. Baikie, and that the 
final arrangements for the jom-ney required his 
presence. 

October 5 : Went to the town on the subject of 
our journey to Wukari ; everything seemed fair and 
promising, but the difficulty was about getting 
horses ; owners were not willing to hire out their 
horses for the jouniey, under an excuse that there 
was so much water on the road, and that if their 
horses made the journey, they would die on their 


SHUFFLING OF THE KING. 


181 


return. It took us some time to reason the chief out 
of this pretence; he then said, they had not more 
than five horses in the town, which we positively 
denied to be true : he then said, we should have 
three horses to take us to Zu, half-way between 
here and Wukari, where we must stop overnight, 
while the messenger goes to Wukari to fetch horses 
to meet us. Zu is a market-place, where people 
from Zhibu and Wukari meet for trading and return, 
but it is not inhabited. I asked him whether it was 
kind in him to let strangers from a far country sleep 
in the bush for want of a conveyance, when the 
journey could be made in a day without such ex- 
posure ? He had been coveting another sword from 
Dr. Baikie, under the false pretence, that the one 
which was given him three weeks ago was broken, 
and sent to the blacksmith for repair. We asked to 
see the broken sword, but it was never shown ; and 
thinking this a favourable opportunity to satisfy his 
covetousness, he a.sked for three swords if the horses 
were to take us to Wukari. lie was told of the 
unreasonableness of his demands, and we asked, if he, 
alone, were to receive four swords, what we were to 
give to others ? However, the Doctor was willing to 
sacrifice another sword to his avarice, and to pay him 
in addition 20,000 cowries, to which he agreed, and 
the messengers were particularly requested to be ready 
with the horses early next morning, so that nothing 
might delay us. Having completed our arrange- 
ments, we returned to the ship, but with some doubt 
whether we should get the horses. Wo have made 
up our minds, however, in case of disappointment to 


J32 


FEIVOLOUS EXCUSES. 


perform the journey on foot, if we could procure a 
guide. 

October 6 : Early this morning we left the ship 
according to promise, and went to the king’s house. 
We found him sitting in the outer entrance talking 
with one of his headmen, and with a furrowed coun- 
tenance, indicating sourness of temper and feelings of 
dissatisfaction. We saluted him, but our salutation 
was coolly returned. We then told him we were 
ready to start for Wukari, according to the arrange- 
ments of yesterday. He wanted to know why we 
did not go first to the Galadima, his chief officer, and 
come with him? We began to apprehend difficulty ; 
liowever, a messenger was sent to call the Galadima, 
who came without delay : the chief then asked why 
we did not pay first, before we had the horses? We 
asked liim whether he thought we were liars, or that 
we had come from our country thus far to deceive ? 
After many vain and groundless excuses, it was 
proposed that the sword and cowries should be sent 
for from the ship, and the cowries measured before 
him, to show we had no intention to deceive. Dr. 
Hutchinson returned to the ship and brought them ; 
but no sooner did the chief see the sword, than 
he said, the sword he wanted for himself, but 
cowries were of no use to him, and that he must 
have cloth in their stead. This was sufficient evi- 
dence that he was deceiving us ; and we would have 
jierformed the journey on foot with the messengers 
from Wukari, but they were under his control. 
They said they were not ready, having to prepare 
their food for the journey; we offered to feed them 


KINDNESS OF THE GALADIMA. 


133 


from our own provision, but they still shuffled, till at 
length, seeing plainly that the king was befooling us, 
Dr. Baikie determined to show his independence, 
and told him that when tlie vessel next returns to 
the river, it will go to Hamaruwa, and report his 
treatment of us to his master ; reminding him that 
we were not his boys to be treated in a manner 
so unbecoming a king. We then took our cowries, 
and sword, and luggage, and returned to the ship. 
Before we got into the boat, a messenger was sent 
to call us back, but as we had been so much de- 
ceived, we would not listen to him, but told him 
that if the king had anything to say, he should send 
properly to us on board. About an hour after, a 
canoe was sent with a message from the Galadiina, 
to call us back, intimating that he had been blaming 
the king since we had left, for his bad conduct 
to us. The messenger was sent back with many 
thanks to the Galadima for his kind interference, 
and to tell him the object of our visit to this coun- 
try, and assure him that our intention in visiting 
Wukari, w'as more for their advantage than for our 
own. In proof of this, I showed him a tumbler, a 
carving-knife, some biscuit, bread, and salt meat, 
and asked him whether they were not superior to 
their calabashes, Indian corn, and the rough- 
made knives wo bought from them for mere cu- 
riosity ? I told him, moreover, that by hindering 
our visit to W ukari, the king oidy acted against the 
interest of the country in general, and that when he 
had once deceived us, we could not believe him any 
longer. A short time after, the Galadima himself 


134 


TRADE. 


came off with the king’s messenger and his own, to 
mediate in person between us and the king. He 
said tliat the king had done very wrong, and had 
been blamed for it by him, and that he would 
guarantee for our visit to Wukari, whether we wished 
to start to-day, or to-morrow morning. Considering 
the effort this generous-hearted man was making on 
our behalf, after showing him the great interest we 
took in the country, and explaining to him that the 
conduct of the king was calculated to turn it into 
another channel (as he evidently saw and acknow- 
ledged), we promised to consider the matter till the 
afternoon, and then we would let him know our 
intention. lie begged of us not to disappoint him, 
and desired us when we went to the town, to go to 
his house, that he might accompany us to the king 
and reconcile us, and then make arrangements for 
our journey to Wukari to-morrow morning. He then 
left the ship, with the promise of a visit from us in 
the afternoon. The people were quite displeased 
with the king’s conduct towards us, and were at the 
same time afraid to come on board to trade, as we 
had left the town this morning in displeasure ; but 
the Galadima was told that our matter with the 
king need not prevent the people’s coming to trade, 
and that they had no cause to fear. Ac(;ording to 
promise, after four o’clock, I started for the town. 
Mr. Richards accompanied me, and we went to the 
Galadima’s house. He was absent from home, be- 
cause a man was being installed this day as Sariki 
n dolci, i. e. the king of the horsemen, or head of 
the cavalry. There was drumming and war dances. 


INAUGURATION OF A CHIEF. 


135 


with horns blowing, and soldiers parading the town 
with as much excitement as if they were going to 
storm a city. The Galadima was told that we were 
come, and the whole train followed him to his gate. 
The warriors armed with bows and arrows, and 
spears, moved towards us in parties of six or ten 
with speed, and then made a sudden stop, shaking 
their w'eapons towards us with an air of great self- 
importance. The women stood by the fence shriek- 
ing their cry in praise of the Sariki n doki, who was 
riding a fine young steed belonging to the Galadima. 
The horse was led by a man with a cord in his hand, 
to prevent accidents among the crowd, as well as to 
save the Sariki n doki the trouble of watching his 
carrier, as to-day was to him a day of pleasure and 
ease. I had expected to see the people in their holiday 
vest, to-day being also Friday, the Alitshima of the 
Mussulmans, in which they partially abstain from 
their ordinary pursuits. I was disappointed, how- 
ever, for with but few exceptions, they were as 
dirty and ragged as at other times. The procession 
passed on, and we entered with the Galadima into 
his inner yard, and he seated us in his praying 
ground, a space of about twelve feet square en- 
closed by four sticks, to discuss the subject of 
our visit to Wukari. He gave me many thanks 
for coming according to promise, and said that 
he had blamed the king much for his unfair deal- 
ing, that he only retains the title of king, but 
that he, the Galadima, was the chief manager of 
public business, that we might make ready for the 
journey to-morrow morning, and that we should 


136 


HORSES UNPROCURABLE. 


give the sword, which the king desired for payment, 
with three measures of cowries (30,000), or, if we 
liked, three red shirts instead of the cowries. Our 
stock of red shirts was nearly exhausted, I, therefore, 
agreed to pay cowries instead. I then asked how 
many horses we were to have ; he said he was sure 
of his own, and one from the king, but the owner 
of the third had not yet been asked, and it was 
not certain whether he would let it or not, but that 
the king would ask him, and pay for the horse. I 
wanted to know the certainty of obtaining the third 
horse, and whether the king would take the cowries 
he had refused this morning, and I suggested that 
it would be better to go and decide the matter 
finally before his majesty. He was in the shed, 
performing his devotions when we got there ; and 
while we were waiting in the hall by a faint fire 
of two or three sticks, which gave more smoke 
than light — a specimen of a Filani lamp — the Gala- 
dima performed his devotions also ; it was then 
about sunset. About ten minutes after, the king 
returned, and he and the Galadima had a long talk 
in Filani. He then thanked me for coming and 
made many frivolous excuses, laying all the blame 
upon the messengers, who were not willing to go, 
because they were not first paid. I asked what 
payment he wanted now ? He said he wanted the 
sword, but not cowries, and if the cloth we would 
pay him was good, he would take it. I asked how 
many horses we were to have? He said, he was 
sure of his own and the Galadima’s, and that he 
would try to speak to the owner of the third this 


FORTIFICATIONS OF ZHIBU. 


137 


evening ; that we might hear the result when we 
came in the morning. I told him we had spent 
three days already in talking about going to Wukari, 
and had been disappointed ; if I were to go to the 
ship, and tell the gentlemen to make ready for the 
journey, and the horses could not be procured, or the 
quality of the cloth for payment were to be disputed, 
what were we to do ? And meantime, the sun would 
be as high as it was this morning, which was one of 
the objections made by the messengers. However, 
without further bargaining, I told him, I would 
report what he had said to my Sai’iki, and he would 
decide for himself By the time we passed the gate 
of the fortification, about seven P.M., it was being 
fastened with sticks piled across the entrance ; so 
that we had to climb up and jump outside. At this 
hour, none of the inhabitants were seen outside the 
town. As we were walking towards the town with 
the Galadima’s messenger, he showed me the mark 
to which the fortification was to be removed, about 
200 feet in advance of the present : and said the 
new sticks we saw at the water side were for it. 
This made me inquisitive as to the need they had to 
fortify their town? He exclaimed in Haussa, “A/i 
Wulcari halhi;” i. e.. Ah, Wukari shoot arrows I 
As I did not wish to lose a single word of what he 
was going to tell me about Wukari, I called Aliheli 
to me, that he might hear all perfectly. I asked 
him to proceed, but he was on his guard ; and said, 
when the first attack was made iq)on this place from 
Hamaruwa, the inhabitants of the towns, whom he 
called Zuntu and Garba, resisted for ten days before 


138 


ZU MARKET. 


they were conquered, and since that time Zhibu had 
had four kings — two had died, and the third was 
too old to do business, and resigned the kingship to 
Zumbade, the reigning sovereign. In the mean 
time we entered the town, and the subject was 
dropped. The people of Gandiko had told us that 
they had had war with Wukari, and were not able 
to conquer it, but had remained there since. The 
chief of that place made the state of enmity between 
them an excuse for not letting us visit Wukari from 
their town. The great distance between Zhibu and 
Wukari keep them one from the other, though there 
is a neutral market at Zu, where they meet at 
times for trade and barter. Though they exchange 
messengers one with another, yet the fact that the 
space of a whole day’s journey is without inhabit- 
ants, show's plainly that their professed friendship 
is a hollow' one. I returned to the ship and reported 
the results of my visit to the Doctor ; and the way 
not being clear for our proceeding to Wukari, the 
attempt to reach it from this place was given up. 

October 7 : Mr. Richards w'as sent to thank the 
Galadima, and to tell him, that having lost three 
days’ already, w'e could not visit Wukari from Zhibu 
at this time, as the water w'as falling. The Gala- 
dima was very sorry, and went with him to the 
king to report the message from Dr. Baikie. Mr. 
Richards said, the king, as a cunning rogue would 
do, attempted to charge us with duplicity ; saying, 
that we had charged him with a breach of faith 
yesterday morning, but now we had acted the same 
part. Why did we now refuse to go to Wukari, 


HIGH LEVEL OF THE RIVER. 


139 


when he was ready ? Perhaps it was because 
30,000 cowries were asked. Truly, he would have 
been glad to have got the sword, but the king of 
Wukari would now suspect him of hindering the 
white men from paying him a visit. In this and 
many other ways he tried to clear himself from 
blame. 

October 8 : Sunday. Had service at ten A.M., 
and read the second part of the second “ Homily on 
the Misery of Man, &c.” All hands rested, and it 
was the most quiet Sabbath we have enjoyed since 
entering the Tshadda. After six days" hard labour, 
the body as well as mind need rest on the seventh. 
God saw the benefit of it to man, as well the 
honour he claims to himself in separating that day 
as his own. 

October 9. Having got sufficient fuel to take 
us to another wooding-place on our way down, at 
ten A.M. we started from Zhibu. The iuhabitants 
who were busy enlarging their town by removing 
the fortification, stood gazing at us till we glided 
out of sight. When the present fortification is 
finished, Zhibu will be about four miles in circum- 
ference. About one r.M., we anchored off Gandiko, 
when Ama, the chief, immediately sent to salute 
us, and sent some Guinea corn as a present to 
Dr. Baikie, and the ship’s company. This we 
returned by a few yards of calico. The face of 
the country about Gandiko was entirely changed 
by the overflowing of the Binue to the very foot 
of the high ground upon which the town is built. 

October 10. Having given the people oppor- 


140 


ANYISHI. 


tunity to sell wliat they had, we got under weigh 
about eight A.M., and made for Anyishi, ofif which 
place we anchored about two p.m. Here we had 
the misfortune of losing our best anchor and cable 
in seven fathoms of water ; the whole chain having 
slipped from its fastening. It was a serious loss, 
as we had now but one anchor and a hedge left, 
two hedges having been lost before. Agbo, the chief 
of Anyishi, immediately sent to salute us with a pre- 
sent of two fowls and some eggs ; -and we promised 
to go on shore and pay him a visit, which we 
fulfilled after dinner. Anyishi is a small village, 
situated on a hill rising on the west side of Mount 
Herbert, and separated from it by a valley. The 
town is rudely fortified by low mud walls and a 
ditch, all of which greatly need repairs. The huts, 
about forty in munber, are scattered about upon the 
hill, and the spaces between them are planted 
with corn and other vegetables, in a very irregular 
manner. We met the chief outside the group of 
his huts, sitting upon buffalo and leopard skins. 
We at first attempted to communicate with him 
through Haussa and Djuku interpreters ; but the 
Djuku interpreters not being expert enough, 
the chief himself addressed us in the warmth of 
his heart in the Haussa language. On Dr. Baikie’s 
mentioning that he was sent to enquire after the 
welfare of the country, and to sec if there is any 
prospect of opening trade with them, the chief 
gave thanks ten times over, for ho could not 
express himself enough in words to convey the 
feelings of his heart. When he was told of our 


OPPRESSION OF THE FILANIS. 


141 


various attempts to visit the king of Wukari, and 
our disappointment, he was very sorry, knowing 
how very glad the king would have been to see 
us. He said that his people were much oppressed 
by the Filanis, and the Berebere of Zaria, and Lafia, 
who came across two years ago, and drove them away 
from their old town, Sundube, from whence they took 
refuge at this place ; that when they lived undis- 
turbed in their homes, they hunted elephants ; that 
at one time he had plenty of tusks, which he placed 
in a row in his Imt like sticks, and spread his mat 
on them for his bed ; that some of them were secured 
in his flight, others were carried away by the enemy, 
and the rest were burnt in the hut ; and that they 
had lost many of their people, wives, and children. 
He pointed out one man from the five messengers, 
sent by the chief of Anufo, the neighbouring village, 
as a person who had been caught by the Filanis 
of Gandiko, whom they call Katshala, and who 
had lately effected his escape. He said that it was 
simply owing to such disturbance from those who 
were stronger than they, that they had become poor 
and have nothing. We asked the distance fi’om 
Anyishi to Wukari, and he gave it as three good 
days' journey, namely, from Anyishi to Akwona 
about ten hours ; from thence to Arufu or Afiayi, 
two neighbouring towns, twelve hours ; from Arufu, 
or Afiayi, to Wukari, twelve hours. As the chief 
told us that he had sent to the chiefs of the neigh- 
bouring villages, who he hoped would come to see 
us to-morrow, we postponed leaving a message for 
the king of Wukari till then. Large lumps of lead- 


142 


MINE OP LEAD ORE. 


ore just landed from a canoe were seen in tlie 
town : it was dug at Arufu, one of the halting 
places to Wukari, where there is a mine, from 
whence it is conveyed to Keana, in Doma, for sale. 
Dr. Baikie purchased several large lumps, of from 
ten to eighteen pounds weight, for specimens. 

October 11 : After breakfast we went on shore, 
to trade, as the canoes could not come alongside 
on account of the strong current — they had made 
several attempts, but were in danger of being upset. 
We took our seat under shady trees, when we were 
immediately surrounded by a large number of people. 
Trading was going on, on the one hand, while on 
the other, I was watching every opportunity of en- 
gaging the attention of some one in friendly con- 
versation. Among the people around us, were some 
respectable-looking men, whom we recognised to be 
Mitshis, by the peculiar marks on their foreheads. 
One of them had a pipe which attracted my atten- 
tion, and which I bargained for, and soon purchased 
with a razor. I asked where it was made, and was 
answered in the Mutshi country — for so they call 
themselves, while their neighbours called them Mit- 
shL I asked whether any Mitshi people were living 
in this place, when one of them introduced himself 
to me as the chief of a Mitshi village not far off, 
and several other Mitshi people were pointed out 
among the spectators. I engaged the attention of 
Njoro, the Mitshi chief, whose town is Iwom, not 
very far from Anyishi. Njoro spoke Haussa fluently, 
and as I had no interpreter, I tried to make myself 
understood as well as I could. When I told him 


ONGING AFTER PEACE. 


143 


that our Queen had sent this ship to see if the 
country was at peace, that she might think of open- 
ing trade with its people ; he interrupted me by 
asking, “ What is the name of your king ?” (for 
Queen) I told him ‘ Victoria,’ which he made several 
attempts to pronounce after me, and said, “Your 
king is a true king ; your king is a true king.” 
When I told him that good people in our country 
always felt very sorry when they heard that people in 
this country fight and catch one another for slaves, 
which thing depopulates the country, and lays the 
land waste wdthout inhabitants ; he burst out with 
enthusiastic rapture, shaking me by the hand, and 
asked for the name of our king again, as he had 
forgotten it, and said, your king is a true king ; 
and then with inexpressible emotion he addressed 
the Mitshi people who were there, in his own lan- 
guage, which of course I did not understand. He 
said they all belong to the king of Wukari, whom 
they were sorry we were not able to visit ; that the 
king would have been very glad to see us, but that 
all they have heard would be reported throughout 
the country, which he said was very extensive in- 
land. I wanted to know the boundary between the 
Mitshi country, and that of Kororofa, but he said, 
by inserting his ten fingers between each other, that 
they were thus mixed together as one people — here 
is a Djuku town, there is a Mitshi village for many 
days’ journey inland. I asked whether they all speak 
one language ? when he answered in the negative. 
The Djuku language is quite different from that of 
the Mitshis I then requested him to give me the 


144 


WALK TO ANUFO. 


numerals up to twenty in Mitshi, which he did, 
and I pencilled them down in my note-book, to 
the astonishment of the bystanders. To cement our 
friendship, I produced a red cap from my bag, and 
placed it on Njoro’s head, when all around shouted 
as a sign of approbation, for the honour done to the 
Mitshi chief. Here again I must acknowledge the 
kindness of Lady Buxton, by whom I was furnished 
with this useful article, as well as many others. Dr. 
Baikie returned on board, as Mr. May was coming 
on shore to take some observations, so he gave me 
a message and present for the chief of Anufo, the 
neighbouring village, whose messenger had just 
come to lead us thither. Dr. Hutchinson and myself 
then started for Anufo. The path lay between 
hills and valleys on the back of Mount Herbert, 
very close to which we passed, the soil is rocky 
and poor on the hills, but black and rich in the 
valleys, where Guinea corn flourished greatly. Just 
before we entered the town, we observed a small 
portion of land sown with beni, a very useful pro- 
duce for commerce, which might be extensively 
cultivated here, as might cotton also, if the inhab- 
itants were permitted to be at rest, and a market 
were opened for the produce of the country. The 
town of Anufo, situated on a small hill on the east 
side of Mount Herbert, about two miles from Any- 
ishi, is a neat village, clean and airy, fortified with 
walls and ditches around it. We were seated under 
a shady tree, waiting for Mr. May, who, we expected 
would come after us when he had finished his ob- 
servations, and had been there about an hour, when 


MESSAGE TO WUKARI. 


145 


Abiki, the chief, sent for us. He was quite a 
young man, sitting on buffalo and leopard skins 
under a shady tree outside the group of his huts. 
After the usual salutation, we took our seat and 
commenced business. The chiefs Galadima, or next 
headman, acted for him. The conversation was 
carried on in Haussa, interpreted into Djuku, 
although I believe he understood Haussa as well. 
In the meantime. Dr. Baikie sent me a note by 
Mr. Dalton, wth a message to the king of Wukari, 
expressing his regret at not being able to visit the 
king this time, and a hope, if the ship came out 
again, that he miglit be able to fulfil his wish next 
year. Tliis message I delivered, stating the objects 
of our intended visit xmder two distinct heads, for 
the easier digestion of his majesty : first, I said, 
we wished to know whether he was truly desirous 
that a treaty of legal trade should be made between 
him and England : and secondly, whether he would 
not like, at the same time, that his people should 
be taught to, learn God’s book, and worshij) God 
as we teach people of other countries ? To both of 
these questions, the Galadima, and a man from the 
king of W ukaid, who was shortly to return thither, 
gave separate answers, as conveying the wishes 
and feelings of their king; but promised that the 
message would bo faithfully delivered. They hoped 
God would keep them in safety till the ship re- 
turns next year, for they are always in doubt 
when they have passed one season without molesta- 
tion, whether another will be as favourable, and 
said that in all probability we might not meet them 

n 


146 


THE DJUKUS 


here next year. I encouraged them to look tip to 
God for protection, and told them, that many good 
people in our country pray for their preservation, 
and that war and the slave-trade may cease from 
the face of the earth. I gave the presents from 

Dr. Baikie, for which we received a kid in return. 

Njoro, my Mitshi friend, had returned from the 
ship, to which he was taken by Dr. Baikie, and 
followed us to Anufo. We asked whether horses 
could be got here, to make the journey to Wukari, 
should the gentlemen return next year, and wish 
to do so. Njoro replied, that ten horses could he 
got, if we wanted as many. He was anxious that 

Ave should visit his village, hut it was too late, 

being nearly four o’clock. Since we entered this 
river, this is the first time we have come direct 
among the oppressed inhabitants without being im- 
mediately under the watchful eye of their Filani 
oppressors ; hence they Avere free to lay their griefs 
open before us, and to desire the friendship of the 
white men, as the friends and Avell-wishers of all 
mankind. Though Anju, the king of Wukari, pays 
tribute to Bautshi, yet being a Djuku by birth, 
he sought the protection of his people, and they 
in return have an affection for him as their lawful 
sovereign. 

At Zhibu and Gandiko all the Djuku people, 
though under the Filani as slaves, were very an- 
xious for us to Adsit Wukari. They dared not say 
it openly before their masters, but they were ojien 
and free enough when they came on board. The 
man from Avhom I collected a few Djuku Avords 


AND FILANIS. 


147 


to compare tliem with Koelle’s specimens, whose 
name is Anju, the same as the king’s, was ready 
to accomjDany ns to VVukari if we should deter- 
mine to make the journey. Zumbade or Bohari, 
the king of the Zhibu district, Ama the chief 
of Gandiko, and Garike of Gankera, are all of 
Djuku race, but have by usage become so amal- 
gamated with the Filanis, by embracing their re- 
ligion, and to secure their fidelity to the interest 
of their masters, that they are placed in posts of 
honour to govern the mixed population of Djuku, 
and those who are half Filanis by birth, whom 
they lead out to battle for their own interest, and 
for the interest of their Sultan. They all go by 
the name of Filani, but in reality they are not 
so by birth, but by conquest and adoption of the 
customs, language, and religion, of the conquerors. 
We had not seen a real Filani, till we came to 
the neighbourhood of Ilamaruwa. This will be a 
sufficient explanation of the hollow friendship be- 
tween the inhabitants of the Zhibu district, and that 
of Wukari; they are in fact the same people, but 
the former have become instruments in the hands 
of the Filanis to oppress their brethren, whose wel- 
fare and safety the king of the hitter has at heart. 
Should another expedition be sent out, and a visit 
to Wukari be thought desirable, though the way 
from Anyishi is long, yet if horses can be got, it 
appears to me to be the best point from which to 
make the journey, from among the subjects of the 
king who take interest in the visit. An opjiortuuity 
would also be given of making accurate observation 

H 2 


148 


LOSS OF ANCHOE AND CABLE. 


in the lead mine in Arufu, and the country 
and people would he better known. Then again, 
as soon as the people of Gandiko and Zhibu see 
that another way has been found to Wukari inde- 
pendent of them, they will lay aside their vain 
and selfish excuses, and the nearest road-way — 
that from Gandiko is only about seven or eight 
hours’ journey — will be laid open for future visits- 
Another inducement to the chiefs of these latter 
places, will be the advantage of the ship laying 
off their town for a much longer time, which they 
would lose by declining to promote such a visit to 
the interior. 

October 12. Steam was got up as soon as possi- 
ble, and for about an hour and a half, an attempt 
was made to fish up the anchor and cable, but in 
vain. It required steam to be kept up in full power 
to stem the current, which ran four and a half knots 
between Mount Herbert and Mount Adams, and 
we were obliged to give the anchor up for lost, and 
take our departure downward with the stream. In 
about four hoius we made Rogan-koto, a dis- 
tance which occupied us a day and a half in going 
up. We anchored off Rogan-koto according to pro- 
mise, to give the people opportunity of trading, 
and also that we might get wood for fiiel. We 
paid a visit to Jada, the chief, who was very glad 
to see us, and earnestly asked after our welfare. 
He said, that they were very ¦ much alarmed about 
us, because it was rumoured down the^ river that 
we had been attacked by the people higher up, 
and had had a dreadful battle. We told him on 


ROGAN-KOTO. 


149 


the contrary, that we were welcomed in every place 
we had reached, the great king of distant Hama- 
ruwa not excepted, at which he was not a little 
surprised. Here we met Onuse, Ojogo’s sister; 
she was the first to come on board, and give us an 
affectionate salutation. She told us that Zuri, our 
messenger, had returned from Keana, and was 
at Ojogo ; the nature of the communication he 
brought from the king of Keana she could not 
tell, but no white man had come with him. 

October 13. A great many people came on 
board to trade in provisions, and various curious 
articles, and plenty of wood, so necessary for the 
navigation of the ship, was bought up. How 
different the people of llogan-koto from those of 
Ojogo ! The latter could not be moved to bring 
a few pieces during the whole of the twelve days 
we spent with them, whereas the former were all 
readiness to supply us, men, women, and children, 
turning out to bring wood ; and all conse- 
quently reaped the price of their industry. In the 
afternoon I walked to the neighbouring newly- 
built village of Kondoko, which has been removed 
hither since we went up, the people being driven 
out of their old village by the rise of the river. 
On my return from Kondoko, I fell in with two 
Mitshi men at Rogan-koto, from whom I added a 
few words to my collection, and gave each of them 
a handkerchief Among many other things brought 
on board, was some rough beaten iron in the shape 
of hoes. As I perceived they could not have been 
intended for tillage, being entirely different from 


J50 


SINGULAR IRON CURRENCY. 


hoes used for that purpose, and unfit for it, I was 
inquisitive to know their use. I was told that it is 
the currency of this part of the country, from 
Doma to Katshina, at which latter place it appears 
they are manufactured for trading purposes. Thirty- 
six of them is the average price of a slave, as one 
hundred Kantai are in Hamaruwa. This singular 
currency is called AMlu, in Doma and Kororofa; 
Ihia, by the Mitshis ; and Agelema, by the 
Ilaussas. I have purchased a few specimens which 
I shall send to England as curiosities. 

October 14. Got under weigh at eight A.M., and 
anchored off Ojogo about nine, to take on board 
Zuri, who was our messenger to Keana, to enquire 
after Dr. Barth. The intelligence Zuii brought 
was, that the two white men, with their two ser- 
vants, were said to have left Keana for Doma, 
and from Doma have gone to Toto, and thence 
to Abazhi, ahont forty-seven days previous to his 
arrival. How far this information may he correct, 
we cannot say; but we may have an opportunity 
of verifying it at the Confluence by enquiiy from 
those who come down the river from Egga, or the 
neighbourhood of Rabba. We left Ojogo about 
twelve A.M., and anchored off Akpoko about three 
P.M., and landed to visit Magaji, the old chief, who 
received us with a hearty welcome, and was sur- 
prised to hear the distance we had made since we 
left him. The rnmour that we had been attacked, 
and several of us killed on the upper parts of the 
river, had also reached Ojogo and Akpoko, and 
they were all thankful to see us retiu-n in safety. 


RUINED VILLAGES OF ERUKO. 


151 


October 15 : Sunday. Got under weigli at six 
A.M., and anchored off Dagbo about eight o’clock, 
where we stayed the remainder of the day, intend- 
ing to wood hei’e to-morrow. But the whole of 
the farms, with all the houses, were under water ; and 
the inhabitants had quitted the spot for their old 
town on the back of the creek, that being now 
secure against the Filanis, whom the water kept 
at a distance. Had service at half-past ten, and 
read the third Homily on the Salvation of 
^lan,” &c. 

October 16. Some wood was collected from the 
water, and cut ready for use. In the afternoon we 
dro 2 )ped down below Dagbo, opposite the villages 
of Eruko, in the Bassa country, to which Dagbo 
is subject. These villages had been visited and 
burnt down by the Filanis a few months before, and 
some of the inhabitants had escaped to the left 
side of the river, while others fell into the hands 
of their pursuers. The remnant have returned and 
rebuilt their houses, and planted their lands ; but 
one half of the buildings are falling into ruins, 
because the owners are destroyed. As the king of 
Bassa had returned from his flight to a small village 
a short distance from the river, we purposed to 
pay him a visit the next morning. 

October 17 : Started early this morning in com- 
pany with Dr. Hutchinson, Mr. May, and IMr. 
Kichards, after the rain, on a visit to the king 
of Ikereku. There had been rain all night till 
the morning, which made the road clean, and the 
walk pleasant and agreeable. Two and a-half miles 


152 


THE BASSA KING. 


brought us to the two small villages which at pre- 
sent go by the name of Ikereku, the capital, or 
residence of the king, the old Ikei'eku being about 
fifteen miles inland. It is said to have been more 
populous than Igbebe at the Confluence, and to be 
at a distance of four days’ journey from Panda, and 
ten from Doma. Adama the king, is a middle-aged 
man, whose title is Agabi, the name of their old 
countiy Gabi, whence the Bassa people migrated 
to this part of the country ; hence the title Agabi 
is taken by aU Bassa kings. They were at one 
time the dread of their neighbours, to whom the 
Agatus, a tribe of Doma, were once tributary. 
Ikereku had been twice attacked before by the 
Filanis, but they were repulsed. But the Agatus, 
their dependents, were taken away from them at 
the conquest of Doma, by the Filanis. The late 
destruction of the Bassa and Panda countries, was 
brought upon them by Adama himself, according 
to their own statements. Usha, also called Afo and 
Ekpe, a part of the Bassas refused to pay tribute to 
Adama the king, and to punish them, he invited 
Ama Dogo, a war chief of the Filanis from Zaria, 
to attack them ; an opportunity which was readily 
embraced by the latter. After the capture of the 
Ushas, according to the wishes of the king, Ama 
Dogo picked a quarrel with Senani the king’s 
brother, who governed some portion of the Bassa 
country westward ; and contrary to the king’s wishes, 
they destroyed Akpatta, the town of Senani, and its 
dependencies ; and as their avarice knew no bounds, 
Ikereku itself, the capital of Bassa, shared the same 


HIS FOOLISH CONDUCT. 


153 


fate ; and thus the country was overrun, till Panda 
was destroyed also. These particular's being related 
by the Galadima, the next in influeirce to the king, 
at the king’s request, I could not help telling 
Adaina that it would have been better for him to 
have lost the tribute of a few of his subjects 
than to seek their punishment by the hand of their 
common oppressors, and thus bring so much trou- 
ble upon himself, his people, and neighbours ; — that 
when a thief is employed to carry away a neigh- 
bour’s goods, he will natm’ally seek opportunity to 
carry away those of his employer also ; and that 
when an incendiary is engaged to set fire to a 
neighbour’s house, we are not sure that our own 
will escape the conflagration. lie felt the force of 
these parabolical expressions, and said nothing; but 
his subjects nodded assent to my remarks, and I 
doubt not, he regretted the foolish steps he had 
taken. The circumstance of the king of Bassa in- 
viting the Filanis to destroy Usha, which was the 
cause of the misfortune of Panda, explains the com- 
plaint of the Igbira or Panda people, that the Bassas 
had called the Filanis to destroy their country. INIr. 
May delivered the present from Dr. Baikie to 
the king, for which he gave a goat in return, and 
pleaded poverty. 

We returned to the ship about ten A.M., and 
immediately steam was ordered to be got up. At 
twelve A.M., we weighed for Abatsho ; the place to 
which a remnant from Panda had made their escape 
about eight months ago, according to their own 
reckoning. We arrived there in about two hours, 

H 5 


\ 54 > 


INDUSTRY OF THE PANDA PEOPLE. 


and landed to visit Maliarama tlie chief, who we 
heard was out of health. Besides the village on 
the water-side, there was another about a mile in- 
land where the chief resided, to which a most plea- 
sant walk through beautiful plantations of Guinea 
corn led us. The extent to which the plantations 
had grown in so short a time, told the industriou': 
habits of the Igbira or Panda people. It is very 
much to be regretted, that such a people who are 
ready to turn evei’ything to account, and who, if 
called upon to raise produce for foreign markets, 
would turn their whole attention to supply it, should 
he at the mercy of those who will not labour with 
their own hands, and are bent on enslaving those 
who do. Although the chief was not well, and 
rose from his mat until great j>ain, yet he did so to 
offer us his bed for a seat, and shook us heartily by 
the hand with inexpressible joy at our safe return — 
for news had reached this place also, that we had 
had a fearful battle with Pilani warriors, and that 
there was great loss on both sides. He and his 
people were glad to hear that the reverse was the 
truth. He offered us eatables, and Guinea corn, 
beer to di’ink, and yams for a present. Since we 
have come among the Bassas and Igbiras, though 
they are oppressed, and driven to and fi’o by the 
Filanis, we may truly say we are among friends, 
and in the land of plenty. The country on the 
back of the river where Abatsho is situated, is 
dry ; and the soil contains some clay with which 
some of the huts are built. Some parcels of cotton 
were purchased by Dr. Baikie and Dr. Hutchinson 


AMARAN MARKET. 


155 


for specimens, from the industrious women who em- 
ploy their time in picking out the seeds, and spin- 
ning the wool into thread, to be sold to native 
weavers. 

October 18 : Started early this morning, and 
about eight A.M., anchored olF Amaran, on the 
left side of the river, near Mount Pleasant. This 
village was not visited on our ascent. It also is 
inhabited by refugees from Panda. A regular 
market is kept here every five days, and to-day 
being the market, we met a large concourse of 
people, both from the Confluence and upper pai'ts 
of the T.shadda. The arrival of the ‘Pleiad,’ of 
course, interrupted their market, and in a short time 
the ship was full of people. Here we learnt, with 
no small joy, that Mr, Crawford and his party were 
well, in the canoe at the Confluence. Aba, the 
chief, immediately came on board, and he and Dr. 
Baikie exchanged presents. We landed, and pur- 
chased wood, of which they had plenty, and many 
curiosities, which no doubt gave a profitable return 
to their owners. The busy scene before us was 
indescribably amusing. After about two hours spent 
here, we weighed and visited the village of Oketta, 
on the right side a few miles below: here we met 
the sister of Oyigu, the late king of Panda, who 
was killed by the Filanis. The island on which 
the people of Oketta had taken refuge on our going 
up was completely overflowed, and the huts thrown 
down or washed away. Their old villages, on a 
long strip of bank between the river and a swamp, 
presented one complete scene of ruin and desola- 


156 


YDIMAHA, 


tion ; yet wltliin tlie ruins tlie weaver was quietly 
pursuing his occupation, and the platter of mats 
his work. As the Filanis still hang about the 
countiy, it appears the ruins will be deserted alto- 
gether, and the inhabitants join their neighbours 
at Amaran, near Mount Pleasant. The poor old 
chief gave us some beer for a present. Starting 
from Oketta, we dropped anchor for a short time 
at Kende, where we made some stay at our ascent ; 
a short visit was paid them, and we then weighed 
for yimmaha, where we dropped anchor about three 
P,M. The island on which the people had taken 
refuge when we passed in August, was almost en- 
tirely covered, and they had returned to their town ; 
the high grass and swollen waters not being favor- 
able to the expeditions of the Filanis ; the in- 
habitants thus enjoying a temporary security from 
these natural defences. The once deserted shore 
of Yimmaha, where but four or five timid men 
were watching the movements of the Filanis, was 
to-day, lined by an immense crowd of men, Avomen, 
and children. The hearty welcome Avith which we 
were received, could hardly be exceeded by that 
of our most intimate friends in a civilized country. 
We visited Ogara, the brother of the late unfor- 
tunate king of Panda, who is noAv elected in his 
room, and is at present residing at Yimmaha. Eu- 
mour had also disturbed this place from Eogan- 
koto, AAdth news of our fabled battle with the 
Filanis, at Avhich they were not a little concerned. 
The statement of Ogara, the king of Panda cor- 
roborated that of Adama, the king of Bassa, respect- 


DESTKCCTION OF PANDA. 


157 


ing the invitation of the Filanis by Adama, to 
destroy Usha, which brought desolation upon them 
all. He said, the Filanis were now at war with 
Toto, that many of his people had only returned 
from that place yesterday, who went to ransom 
their children and relatives, and that some of the 
captives had effected their escape at the same time. 
As they had some ivory, the king requested us to 
return on hoard, that the people might sell it off. 

October 19 ; After breakfast we paid a visit to 
the king, and entered more circumstantially into 
the affair of the destruction of Panda, and the 
state of things between him and the Filanis at 
present. He confirmed the statement that Panda 
was destroyed by treachery, and said, that Oyigu, 
the king, had entertained them as strangers or 
traders who had come to his country, but when 
a sufficient force had got into the town, in the 
morning they commenced catching the people and 
plundering the houses. Three of the elders who 
had been caught, hut have since been ransomed, 
and who were sitting by Ogai’a, were pointed 
out to us. Madaki, an elder war chief, who owned 
some horses, was dreadfully wounded in several 
places, in the act of defending them, and three 
large gashes now on his hand and back must have 
been severe. Oyigu, the chief, was killed, and the 
inhabitants taken prisoners before they were aware 
that any hostility was intended against them ; hence, 
all the dependent towns and villages were deserted, 
and the people fled for refuge to the island in the 
Tshadda, and to the other side of the river. Am a 


158 


WILLINGNESS TO TRADE 


Dogo, the Filani war chief, offered the condition 
of paying one hundred slaves as an annual tribute ; 
and the king said he feigned compliance with these 
terms, till he had recovered as many of his people 
from them as they were able to ransom ; and that he 
would never go to Panda again, but when the dry 
season comes will remove to the other side of the 
river, and only inhabit Yimmaha in the rainy sea- 
son, when it is difficult for the Filanis to get at 
them. He said, if they complied and paid one 
hundred slaves one year, in the next they would 
require two hundred, and where were they to get 
them ? and that they detested war, trade being 
their chief employment. I asked him whether, in 
case trade should be established with this coun- 
try, he would like his people to be taught God’s 
book, and how to worship God as we do in the 
white man’s country; for it was these two things 
together, which made England great, and that they 
would bring peace and prosperity to any countiy 
who received and embraced them. I told him that 
the same thing was proposed to the chiefs of Aboh, 
to the Atta of Igara, their sovereign, and to Mo- 
hamma, king of Hamaruwa, respecting the Baibai 
or Djuku people, and that they were all willing to 
trade, and that their people should be taught God’s 
book : I wanted, therefore, to know what he would 
say to it also. He replied that trade was their chief 
employment, and that he was very desirous that 
war should cease, that his people might trade, and 
be taught God’s book : he wished us many blessings 
and long life from the God whom we worship. He 


AND TO RECEIVE CHRISTIAN TEACHERS. 159 

said that he was a trader himself, and had been to 
Hamaruwa, and that IVIohamma, the present snltan, 
was his friend ; he had been to Zhibu, and knew 
Bohari, the king, of whom he had a very low 
opinion, but spoke very highly of the Galadima, 
whose name he told us Avas Zumade, and that he 
Avas a Avorthy character. We confirmed his testi- 
mony from personal knoAvledge and experience. 
Dr. Baikie asked what portion of the captives Avas 
noAv in the hands of the Filanis ; he said, by far 
the larger portion, and that as long as the army 
kept together, and there Avas any prospect of the 
captives being ransomed by their relatiA’es, the Fi- 
lanis would not sell them to others ; but that Avould 
not be the case Avhen the army dispersed, and 
carried their captives to their different homes. Dr. 
Baikie enquired as to AA'hat might be the price 
they paid for the ransom of each of their people ; 
he replied, 80,000 cowi’ies, Avhei’cupon the Doctor 
offered the king that amount to assist him in the 
ransom of one person, for Avhich the king did not 
knoAV how to express gratitude enough in Avords. 
He remembered Mr. Laird’s visit to Panda, and asked 
whether he was still alive, Avhen he Avas told that the 
same gentleman sent this ship to the river again. 
Having taken leave of the king, and got under 
Aveigh, about one P.M., aa'c anchored, and visited the 
village of Ogba, on the top of Frcnchwood cliff, 
Avhich had been also deserted, but is noAV re-inha 
bited. We landed, and climbed up the cliff Kpan- 
aki, the chief, was not at home, but we saw his 
sister, a woman of some consequence, who is head 


160 


RETURN TO THE CONFLUENCE. 


of the village. As her brother, Kpanald, was living 
in the village Okpangana, on the opposite side 
of the river, a messenger was sent to inform him 
of our arrival, and he returned with the chief’s 
brother, with a message, that he regretted that he 
was not able to come to the shij^, because one of 
his wives died last night. Some presents were sent 
to him by Dr. Baikie, with words of sympathy : and 
after about an hour’s stay, we started from this 
place for the Confluence, and reached the east point 
of Duck Island about half-past six P.M., when the 
water began to shoal to two and a-half fathoms. 
Fearing we might run a-ground, or upon I’ocks now 
under water at the juncture, we dropped anchor 
for the night. 


CHAPTER V. 


SICKNESS OF TWO OF THE PARTY LEFT AT THE CONFLUENCE- 
EXCELLENT HEALTH OF THE EUROPEANS IN THE PLEIAD — 
DISSATISFACTION OF AMA-ABOKKO — DESIGN OF AMA AND 
DASABA TO BUILD A TOWN ON THE LAND PURCHASED BY 
THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT IN 1841 — ZURl’s MISCONDUCT RE- 
PORTED TO AMA — FRIENDLINESS OF THE NATIVES AND THEIR 
DESIRE FOR THE RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MODEL FARM, AND 
TO BE TAUGHT GOD*S WORD — SYMBOLIC LETTER TO A NUPE 
IN SIERRA LEONE — WISH FOR THE RETURN OF THE SIERRA 
LEONE PEOPLE TO THEIR COUNTRY — GROWING POWER OF 
ABOKKO*S PARTY — IDDA— HISTORY OF THE RISE OP THE 
ATTA3 — FRIENDLY RECEPTION AT ASABA — SUITABLENESS OF 
THAT PLACE AND OF ONITSHA FOR MISSIONARY STATIONS — 
FANCY CLOTHS, &C. AT ONITSHA MARKET — OSSAMARE — ABOH 
— INTERVIEW WITH AJE — HOSPITABLE TREATMENT RECEIVED 
BY SIMON JONAS — DESCRIPTION OF THE TOWN— CALL UPON 
THE CHURCH TO PREACH THE GOSPEL THERE — AGBEKUN*S 

VISIT TO THE TSHUKU INTERVIEW WITH THE CHIEF OF 

AOIAMA — RECROSSXNG THE BAR — ARRIVAL AT FERNANDO PO. 


October 20 : Started early and aneliored off the 
town of Igbebe about seven A.M., in safety, where 
we were welcomed by the crew of the canoe which 
had left us nearly seven weeks ago. Their an- 
chorage was very close to shore, and consequently, 
exposed to the filth and stagnant water in some 
pits, which rendered the place very unfavourable 
to health. From this or other causes, Mr. Craw- 
ford was very unwell, and Mr. Gower, the second 
engineer, in a very precarious state of health, but 
all the natives were well. All the Europeans in 


162 


HEALTHINESS OF THE PLEIAD. 


the ‘ Pleiad ’ enjoyed what may be called excellent 
health in Africa, and I may, perhaps, say more so 
than is enjoyed for a length of time together on 
the coast. Since we commenced the ascent of the 
Tshadda, no one who had any thing to do on 
shore had been idle, either in communicating with 
the native chiefs, trading, or in prosecuting sci- 
entific researches ; journeys were made, for in- 
stance, to Hamaruwa, a distance of fourteen miles 
inland, by a very bad road, and without conveyance, 
exposed to every inconvenience, without suffering 
in the least from these exertions. Our Kiaimen 
and the native crew from Sierra Leone have suf- 
fered from sickness up the Tshadda, but the cause 
could not be assigned to the climate; it was from 
want of proper food, and over exertion. Their 
blood, consequently, from want of adequate nou- 
rishment degenerated, and they began to swell 
from their feet, with pain and weakness in the 
joints; but no sooner was their diet changed, than 
they regained strength. It is a hundred and one 
days to-day since we entered the river, and no 
death has taken place in the Expedition. Not 
unto us, but unto God, we give praise and gloiy. 
At noon we landed to visit Ama-Abokko, and to 
thank him for his kindness in giving us the mes- 
sengers who accompanied us up the river ; . but 
from the tone of Ama, it appeared Zuri had told 
him how kind Dr. Baikie had been to the long 
of Panda, though he had rendered us no service, 
and yet the Doctor gave him so many cowries ; 
while Ama, who did everything in his power to 


INTENDED APPROPEIATION OF MODEL FARM. 163 


aid us, was not half so well treated. Zuri had 
also falsely asserted, that we had paid the mes- 
sengers one measure of cowries only. We explained 
the matter to the king, and promised to see him 
to-morrow with Zuri, that we might expose his bad 
conduct, which we would otherwise not have men- 
tioned. 

October 21 : On our arrival here on Friday, I 
made enquiry after Dasaha, who was driven out 
of Lade, and about the state of the country in 
general. I was then privately informed that the 
Yoruba of Ibadan, in our station near Abbeokuta, 
were bringing Dasaba back to Lade ; that the town 
was being put in order before Dasaba’s entrance; 
that Ama-Ahokko and Dasaba were friends ; and that 
Dasaba had intimated to Ama-Abokko his wishes 
to come down the river, and establish a town on 
the land purchased by Government from the Atta 
in 1841, a portion of which was let for the Model 
Farm, from which place he would assist Ama- 
Abokko against his enemies. I told Dr. Baikie 
what I had heard, and suggested the expediency 
of reminding the king that tlie place is Govern- 
ment property, and that he is bound to take 
care of it for them, without alluding to what we 
had heard. There was another matter connected 
with Zuri, the messenger, for which we wanted 
an interview with the king. On our arrival at 
Ojogo, the ship anchored for a time to take him 
and Mahamma his companion on hoard, but it re- 
quired no little patience and forbearance, as well 
as threats, to get him off ; cither some one was in 


164 


ILL-CONDUCT OF ZUKI. 


his debt, or he owed something which he wanted 
to settle before he went on board. We threatened 
to leave him behind, and take Mahamma alone to 
the* Confluence, in which case he would have to 
account for himself to Ama-Abokko, whenever he 
chose to return to him. In the hurry and con- 
fusion of getting them on board, as the ship had 

got under weigh, he brought his two sons, Musa 
and Bawalla, with him, and another little boy be- 
sides. He wanted four women, who he said had 
come fi’om the king of Keana, to come on board 
and sell their rice, but we would not allow it, so 
the canoe was let go, and they returned to Ojogo. 
We knew Musa and little Bawalla to be his chil- 
dren, but the other little boy was quite a stranger 

to us, so we asked who he was, when he replied 

that lie was a home-born slave belonging to Bawalla’s 
mother, and as she had left him to live with ano- 
ther husband, he took his son Bawalla away, and 
this little boy was his companion. Had it been 
otherwise. Dr. Baikie would immediately have ran- 
somed the slave boy ; and as the tln’ee little boys 
were so happy together, we believed the matter to 
be as it was related to us, but I continued to 
watch if I could discover any cheat in the case. A 
few days after this, Aliheli pressed Zuri to speak 
the truth as to whether the boy was really a 
slave intended to be sold away. The truth was 
thus elicited that he was purchased by Zuri for 
sale. Mahamma came to tell mo the matter, and 
said, as we had wished to ransom the boy, Zuri 
would let us have him. As they did this igno- 


ama’s messenger. 


165 


rantly, I told Dr. Bailde of the fact, and the bar- 
gain was struck for the boy’s ransom for 50,000 
cowries. Among many other things, Zuri told Ama- 
Abokko that he had purchased the little boy for 
him, and that Mahamma had taken the boy from 
him, and sold him to us. Early this morning Zuri 
came on board to entice him away, but he was 
turned out of the ship, and told that he was for- 
tunate not to be put in irons. After breakfast we 
went on shore, to have an interview with Ama- 
Abokko on these various subjects. I need not 
enter at length into the whole story; suffice it to 
say, that Zuri’s misconduct was related to the king, 
and Ama was given to understand that w'e bore 
with him for the king’s sake, and hence alone he 
had not been dealt wdth as he deserved. The 
barefaced lie, that he and Mahamma had been paid 
only one measure of cowries each, was alleged as 
an instance of his ill-behaviour; and he was forced 
to confess before the king, that we had paid two 
measures to each of them. Zuri thought, by re- 
porting the payment of one measure, he w'ould 
keep the other entirely to himself, while the king 
would divide the reported one with him. I then 
told the king, that Avhen a man was guilty of such 
duplicity to his OAvn chief, he might believe that 
he Avould tell other falsehoods. I asked Zuri if 
he had ever mentioned to us that he had pur- 
chased the little boy for the king, and he con- 
fessed he had not. Dr. Bailde said he would keep 
his word, and ransom the boy; but instead of pay- 
ing Zmd, he Avould pay the amount to the king 


166 


THE MODEL FARM 


liimself. He was tlierefore liberated for 50,000 
cowries, and is now very happy with us on board. 
Zuri had been very serviceable to us, but his cha- 
racter was sadly stained by his addiction to lying 
and covetousness. I took the Blue Book contain- 
ing the papers of the Niger Expedition of 1841 
with me when we went to the king. Ama was 
reminded of the visit of the four ships, and of the 
j:)m’chase of the land for the IModel Farm, toge- 
ther with the cause of its abandonment. He was 
then informed that Government had not forgotten 
the place ; that we had been to see it, and found 
it all right, and we requested, as he was close by, 
that he would keep an eye to it, and see that 
nobody touch the land, giving him to understand, 
that we should report at our return the condition 
in which we found it. Ama-Abokko replied, that 
he was now the owner of that place, and that it 
must be bought from him. I replied, that it was 
not customary to pay twice for one tobe (holding 
at the same time the tobe of Daganna his Gala- 
dima), upon which he smiled. Dr. Baikie told him 
that he would go over the ground, and put up a 
flag there before we returned to the sea, to indi- 
cate that the land is still a British possession. I 
pointed out to Dr. Baikie the necessity of taking 
such steps to keep Dasaba from occuiDying it, for 
once established there, he would do immense mis- 
chief to the poor defenceless refugees on the left 
side of the Niger, at the fall of the river. More- 
over, if portions of land were once built upon, and 
the best localities spoiled by their irregular towns 


PUT IN AMA’S keeping. 


167 


and villages, it would not be easy to clear it 
when the place should be wanted for better pur- 
poses. I regret that the Model Farm was broken 
up, though it could not have been otherwise under 
the circumstances on account of which it was aban- 
doned. The natives are still looking forward to its 
re-establishment, more particularly for the purpose 
of traffic. 

October 22 : Sunday. Held service at half- 
past ten A. M., and preached from 1 Sam. vii. 
9 — 12. Truly we have much cause for raising our 
Ebenezer to God. All hands rested from labour, 
and no trade was allowed to be carried on with 
the ship, so the day wore the aspect of a Sabbath. 

October 23, 24 : The ship was full of people 
trading with all kinds of articles : ivory, country 
cloths, tobes, mats, shea butter, palm oil, yams, 
sheep, goats, fowls, &c. Anything in demand, 
either for curiosity or for use, was readily brought 
for sale, for cowries, or in exchange for European 
articles. The scene showed the disposition of the 
people to trade, and that a trading establishment 
at the Confluence would prove beneficial to the 
coimtry in general. The languages spoken here 
are Igara, Igbira, Nupe, Kakanda, Haussa, and Yo- 
ruba. The Yorubas find their way to the Conflu- 
ence by way of Lade or Rabba, from Ilorin. People 
speaking Doma and Djuku, the language of Koro- 
rofa, also visit the market at Jgbebe at the Con- 
fluence, and the Ibo traders come up as far as this 
from the Delta. Among the things purchased as 
curiosities, was a kind of fancy cloth, said to be 


168 DISPOSITION TO WELCOME SETTLERS. 

manufactured by the people of Igbo, south of Idda, 
near the Ibo country, who they said were like the 
Opu or Ibo, and their language nearly similar. 
Hence my attention was drawn to find out who 
the Igbos were. 

October 25 : To-day being fixed for our departure 
from Igbebe, we went on shore to take leave of 
Ama-Abokko, and thank him for his kindness to us 
dming our stay with him. The site of the Model 
Farm was particularly put under his care by Dr. 
Baikie, till steps be taken in due time to do some- 
thing. I asked Ama-Abokko whether he would afford 
protection to any Nupe, Igbira, Kakanda, or Bassa 
people, who might be disposed to come over with 
the next Expedition, with the intention of settling 
in the country? He said there was plenty of room 
at Igbebe, and he would be glad to receive as 
many as were disposed to come; the only thing 
which caused him uneasiness was the unfriendliness 
between him and the Kakandas on the back of 
the town. We told him that we hoped when 
another ship came, and trade is opened, that those 
Kakandas would be spoken to, and that they would 
be friendly again. Ama-Abokko is quite willing 
that his people should be taught to read and pray 
to God, as we teach people of other countries. We 
shook bands with him, and parted with good feel- 
ings. Daganna, Ama-Aboklio’s Galadima, a Nupe 
by birth, is a worthy character. Pie professes 
Mobamedanism ; and all the time the canoe was 
off the town, he paid every attention to it and its 
crew, that nothing might go wrong during our ab- 


SYMBOLIC LETTER. 


169 


sonce up the Tshadda. Since our arrival, not a 
day passed when we went on shore, that he did 
not invite us to his house, and entertain us with 
Guinea-corn beer, which he many times poured out 
of the pitcher for us with his own hands, though he 
would not drink it, being prohibited by his religion, 
nor, except for us, would he have touched it. This 
and other things, as kola nuts, he would set be- 
fore us, or anything else he thought acceptable, 
lie sent on board daily bowls of pounded yams, 
and a pot of good sauce, which was very much 
enjoyed by the ship’s company. He was a busi- 
ness-like man, and very orderly in his manners, 
and obliging in his disposition. lie was the last 
on board, and when sent on shore in the ship’s 
boat, as we were getting under weigh, this young 
and affectionate man was seen shedding tears at 
parting with us, as if we had been old and inti- 
mate friends. All the people stood on shore, and 
followed the Pleiad with their eyes till she was 
out of sight. One of the sailors was the bearer 
of a symbolical letter to a Nupe relative in Sierra 
Leone. This letter consisted of a red parrot tall 
tied to a white cotton thread at one end, with 
a small piece of hard wood, burnt black at one ex- 
tremity fastened to the other end of the thread, four 
cowries being attached to the middle of the thread, 
two facing each other, with the small ends up- 
ward, and the other two in like manner with the 
small ends downwards. This may be interpreted 
as follows: — the piece of hard wood biunt at 
one end may mean, we are well and strong, but 

I 


170 


INTEBPEETATION OF THE LETTER. 


have been mourning for your loss, and our hearts 
are as black as coal fire. The parrot tail may 
mean, we are all in good circumstances, and are 
expecting your return as soon as possible with the 
speed of a parrot. The pair of covuies with the 
small ends upward, facing each other, may mean, 
we wish to see you face to face. The inverted 
cowries may allude to the disorderly state of the 
country, as if all things have been upside down. 
These facts prove the willingness of the people for 
the return of their people, and their desire to enter 
into trade with the English ; and with them before 
us, I hope some steps will be taken to aid the 
retum of the natives of the Niger to their coun- 
tries, as a beginning of future operations to im- 
prove the people. We anchored off the town of 
Agbedanma, situated on a hill, with Oko Odogbo 
below it on the left, and Otuturu on the right, 
on an island. Okeyin had removed his camp from 
English island to this place, on Abokko’s people 
quitting the town of Idda, since we went up. 

October 26 : Dr. Hutchinson landed early this 
morning at Agbedanma, where he met our old 
fi’iend Ehemodina from Idda, and brought him on 
board; he said he had come there thirteen days 
ago on a risit to Okeyin, who was his relative, 
and he could not forget him though involved in a 
dispute with a party, whom it appeared the Atta 
favoured. lie was invited to breakfast, but he 
would not eat before his people, or at least till he 
had performed some religious ceremony which he 
called washing ; but although he was taken to the 


EHEiMODINA AND OKEYIN. 


171 


saloon where he might be by himself, yet he would 
not touch anything. However, to oblige Dr. Baikie, 
after he had touched the wine in the glass with 
his finger, and rubbed it on his head and hands, 
he drank that : — the meat and bread intended for 
his breakfast he requested to be allowed to take 
home, and it was accordingly wi’apped up for him 
in bro-wn paper. His religious observances gave 
opportunity for conversation on the religion of 
white men, in which he eng-ao-ed with much in- 
terest. Okeyin and his com]: anions, who had also 
come on board, took breakfast in the saloon which 
they very much enjoyed. Okeyin being a brother 
of Ama-Abokko, I related to him all that had 
been proposed about the return of the Igara, Ig- 
bira, Nupe, and Kakanda people, fi’om Sierra 
Leone to this country, and he also promised, that 
if they came, they should meet with a hearty wel- 
come and full protection. Dr. Baikie then made 
them several presents, for which they were thank- 
ful. Abokko’s people are a powerful party, as I 
have observed already under date of August 1.* 
They are becoming independent of the Atta, and 
I believe in a short time, if the present dispute 
between them and Agabidoko is not soon settled, 
they will shake off his yoke. They command the 
market from Aboh to the Confluence. Aje of 
Aboh seems to be in favour of Okeyin, and as 
they are commercial in their disposition, Aboh 
would go to trade with Abokko’s people as far as 
the Confluence, were they to remove so far up 
* Vide, page 27. 

I 2 


172 


DIVISIONS AMONG THE PEOPLE. 


the river. In consequence of this, the old Ikiri 
market, (the Bocqua of the Lander’s) is at pre- 
sent suspended, or rather removed partly to Ighebe, 
where Ama-Abokko is now, and partly to Otuturu 
where Okeyin is encamped. Aboh traders attend 
both markets, the latter especially, while the people 
from the upper parts of the river, stop either at 
Igbebe or Otuturu as they please; but Agabidoko’s 
party dare not go up to either of them, nor dis- 
turb Aboh traders when passing Idda for Otuturu. 
It appeared from all accounts, that these two con- 
tending parties are engaged in preparations for a 
conflict next month Avhen the river falls. Time 
was allowed for the people to trade with us, and 
about noon we weighed for Idda, where we an- 
chored in the afternoon, two guns being fired to 
announce our arrival. After five, we landed and 
walked along the edge of the cliff', but there is 
very little to interest a stranger. ^lany of the in- 
habitants having left the town, the houses were 
for the most part, empty ; and long grass was 
growing between groups of huts -which at one time 
were thickly populated. It threatened a tornado and 
rain, but we managed to have a few minutes con- 
versation with the brother of a chief before we has- 
tened back to the ship, just as it was getting dark. 

October 27 : Early this morning two messen- 
gers were sent to the Atta to announce our arrival, 
and to say that the whole day -woidd be given to 
trade. No one felt any inclination to pay his ma- 
jesty a second visit, on account of the difficulty 
and waste of time, -which made the task unplea- 


INSINCERITY OF THE ATTA. 


173 


sant. The day was employed to better advan- 
tage on board, where people from different parts 
came together, and plenty of information could be 
collected. Our messengers did not make their 
appearance till late in the afternoon, when the 
Atta saw them, and promised the bullock offered 
on our ascent ; but it was to be shot that evening 
lest he should get away by the morning. This 
made us doubt the sincerity of the Atta, because 
the bullock could easily have been secm’ed till the 
morning. Since Abokko’s people left Idda, there 
has been little or no trade in this place. The 
Atta however, wanted the ship to stop five days, to 
which we could not consent. The coals left near 
the water side hy his permission and under his 
care three months ago, were found safe, just as 
they had been packed up by the engineer. 

October 28 : A man was early sent to the Atta 
on private business, and the bullock, still alive, 
was delivered to him to be taken on board, but 
without any assistance being given him. The 
animal made towards the man, and he at once let 
him go to escape being gored ; and thus the Atta’s 
present was lost — a loss which did not concern us 
much, as it was not given with a willing heart. 
We landed early, as steam was being got up, on a 
visit to a chief who was on board yesterday, and 
had a long conversation with him on different sub- 
jects. As far as he could recollect, he enumerated 
twenty Attas who reigned in Igara, and said that 
the present, who is the twentieth, is now in the 
twentieth year of his reign. He gave a brief 


174 


HISTORY OF THE ATTAS. 


account of the origin of the Atta, which is as 
follows : — The part of the country now known as 
Igara, "was formerly Akpoto country, our infor- 
mant being himself on the mother’s side related 
to the AJvpoto. The name of the original king 
was Igara ; the first Atta came from the opposite 
shore from the interior, and belonged to a tribe 
named Ado, but called Idu by the people of Aboh. 
His calling was that of a hunter, and whenever 
he killed an elephant, or any other beast, he never 
took any part for his own use, but delivered the 
whole to Igara the king. Igara at first suspected 
the ])roceedings of the Atta, but as he did no 
mischief, and had very little power, not much 
notice was taken of him. In the mean time, more 
])eople came over from Ado and joined the Atta; 
and when he found himself sufficiently powerful, 
he refused to give Igara any more game. Tliei'c- 
n])on Igara demanded the reason of this ; and the 
Atta gave an impertinent answer, that he Inul 
given him enough already. A quarrel forthwith 
arose, and the Atta drove Igara into the intei-ior, 
and became king of the Igara countiy. The 
Akpotos we were informed, are now subject to the 
Atta, and their language is the same. The chief 
said, moreover, that the kings of Nupo and Aboli 
also sprung from Ado, as did the Atta of Igai’a. 
lie also gave us information I'ospccting the natives 
towards tlie Ibo country, es])ccially the Igbo, whom 
he identified with the Opu or Ibo, Avhich -shall bo 
mentioned if the account be corroborated as we 
go down the river. He was very glad to hear me. 


GRAVES OF WHITE MEN. 


175 


mention the intention of God’s people to send 
their countrymen back from Sierra Leone to 
settle among them, and establish trade, and to 
teach them the worship of the true God as they 
have been taught in the white man’s country. I 
spoke with him for a considerable time about God, 
and the folly of idolatry ; and all I said was 
listened to by him, and all present, vdth mucli 
attention. We returned on board, and about half- 
past eight A.M:. left Idda, and anchored off Ada- 
mugu in the afternoon, where we landed. This 
was a town of some consequence at one time, wdiere 
Aboldio lived, and where Mr. Laird buried thirteen 
of the crew of the Quoi'ra, and two of the Albiurka. 
It has declined since the death of Abokko, and 
nothing but the association of its name with that 
man, and with Laird and Oldfield’s expedition 
gives it any interest. On our approach, the few 
inhabitants armed themselves with muskets, ready 
for self-defence, and looked upon our landing with 
great suspicion ; but there was a Haussa slave 
there with whom we spoke, and he quieted their 
fears. Dr. Hutchinson asked for the graves of the 
white men buried there some years ago, but it 
appeared no one there had any recollection of the 
circumstance. There was one man who said he 
remembered the visit of the white men, but he 
was a little boy at that time, so he could give us 
no account of it. Their chief they said had been 
dead sometime, and his son had committed murder 
and ran away. Two among them w’ere pointed 
out to us as their present chiefs, to whom Dr. 


176 


UTO AND ARA MARKETS. 


Baikie gave some presents. The first town was 
flooded, and the stench of decayed vegetables was 
sensibly perceived. We wanted to get to then’ 
other town, but they told us we should have to 
wade before we reached it, so we gave up our 
intention. Dry-fire wood was asked for and readily 
brought ; and thus a little trade was carried on 
with them. Some people had just cpme in their 
canoes from some markets on the opposite shore, 
with mats, said to be made by the people of Ado. 
This mat is of the same pattern used by the Yoru- 
ba, and the Ijebu near Benin, from which I think 
the district of Ado can be at no great distance. 
They gave us some account of the Igbo people, 
who they said were near the Opu or Ibo country, 
and very much like them. 

October 29 : Sunday. Held divine service at 
half-past ten, and preached from Heb. ii. 1 — 3. 
Some canoes came alongside to trade, but they were 
sent away, and told that no business is done on 
this day, which is our Sabbath. There was a market 
to-day, in a place called Uto, about a mile below 
Adamufiu, on the ri^ht side of the river. This 
market is said to be attended by the people of Ado, 
about a day’s journey from the interior; and Ara 
market, which is held at another time a few miles 
below, is attended by the same people. Both TJto 
and Ara markets wei’e established by Abokko, when 
he resided at Adamugu, but he gave Ara market to 
Agabidoko to reap the advantage of it for himself ; 
hence Ara market belonged to old Agabidoko, whose 
party is now residing partly at Idda, and partly in 


ASABA. 177 

the neighbourhood of Adamugu, and is at enmity 
with Abokko’s people. 

October 30 : As soon as steam was up, we 
weighed from Adamugu, and anchored off Asaba, on 
the right side, where we landed ; the people as at 
other places, were frightened at first, and held them- 
selves in readiness for self-defence, but a few words 
of friendship and peace soon subdued their fears. 
The town of Asaba is situated on a gradual eleva- 
tion, and the road to the top from the water-side 
is kept in good order. Immediately before entering 
the town, a spacious road, which could not have 
been less than thirty feet wide, led into the place, 
and from this road others branched right and left 
under shady trees to private dwellings, in groups 
of family houses. The town is by no means re- 
gularly laid out, but this is more to its advantage, 
as the houses are at great distances one from the 
other, which makes it airy. The soil is a red 
mould, with which they build their mud walls, and 
the streets are covered with sand and loose earth. 
We were led to the house of Ezobogo, their head 
chief, for there are many. The reception we met 
with here was beyond expectation, especially as 
they bore a very bad name among their Aboh 
neighbours, for they are Ibos. Without entering 
into particulars of their willingness to trade, and to 
allow their people to be taught the religion of the 
true God, of which I spoke with them for a long 
time — the dryness, and probable salubriousncss of 
this place, which opens to the Niger, and is the 
best port to the Ado country, which seems to border 

I 3 


178 


SALUBRIOUSNESS OF ASABA. 


on Benin and Ijebu, make it the best calculated 
for a settlement of any I have yet seen between 
Aboh and Idda. The fine hilly country on the 
back of Asaba, is called Oria, and belongs to Ado. 
There are two small towns between the hill and 
the river, whose market-places are Uto and Ara. 
The natives speak Ado, Ibo, and Igara. Some 
people fi’om Ossamare reside at Oria, and are known 
there by the name of Akpram. There are some 
villages called Ugboru and Akpram, or Akpram 
Ugboru on the right side, belonging to Asaba; they 
paid tribute to the Atta formerly, but are now 
independent of him. Inam and Onitsha on the 
left side, and Asaba, used to be troublesome to Aboh 
traders on the way to Igara, but could not prevent 
their going, because Inam is the only place which 
possesses canoes large enough to make effectual 
opposition. There is also a small Ibo tribe on the 
left side, called Isugbe, before tributary to Obi, but 
now independent. A town called Asabutshi on the 
right, above Asaba, was first inhabited by a man 
who had murdered a man and woman, and fled 
thither for refuge. None of these places are visible 
from the river, but were pointed out to us near 
Walker Island, or the group of islands thereabouts. 
Their respective localities may be more accurately 
determined hereafter. Among other places mentioned 
is the Igbuso district, at the back of Asaba, having 
two towns, Ogbori and Ogbobi. Uzugbe, Onitshi, 
and Utu on the left, belong to Idda. These are the 
names of different places between Adamugu and 
Onitsha, given to us by our interpreter. 


ONITSHA MARKET. 


179 


We weighed from Asaba, and anchored off 
Onitsha market, where we had seen about five 
hundred people in the market, on our ascent. To- 
day was market-day, but we came too late, as it 
was just broken up. However, we met a few 
people, among whom was Odiri, the son of the 
king, or Obi Alcazua, of Onitsha town, which was 
some miles from the market-place on the left side. 
Here we made enquiiy for the Igbo tribe, who 
make the fancy country cloths, upon which Odiri 
at once pointed to himself, and said, “We are the 
people who make it.” He told us, that the people 
of Idda, and higher up the river, not knowing the 
difference, call them all Igbo, which is the name of 
a small town named Igbo Inam ; that their country 
is called Igbo, but in fact, they are all Elugu of 
Igbo, or Ibo, and that this is the market attended 
by the Elugu people from the interior. He then 
gave me the following names of towns in Elugu, 
which attend Onitsha market, held every five days : 
— Obotshi, Umu, Oja, Nkpb, Obba, Abadja Ezon- 
gauran, where the fancy cloths are made, Abadja 
Obba, Akuku, Uke, Oto, Nnevvu, Ozhi-Owere, 
Obu, Ofu Abadja, Nkuere Nzhibe, Nteja. The 
names of the different fancy cloths are Owowo, 
Anaba Obiri, because made in Obiri, and Nwega. 
I asked Odiri, how they would like to see their 
countrymen now in white man’s country, come 
back and reside among them, and teach them what 
they have learned during their sojourn in that 
country ? He said, that as long as the white men 
have it in their mind to introduce trade, whom- 


180 


ASABA AND ONITSHA, 


soever they propose to send, -vvould be welcomed, 
and no injury would be done to any of their country- 
men who might come to dwell among them. lie 
asserted that they never sold one another, but such 
slaves only as are brought to them from the upper 
part of the country. He was very anxious that we 
should see his father ; but we could not, as the town 
was some distance off, and we were desirous of 
getting to Akra-Atani that evening. Plere we were 
told, that the tribe of Isuama make Ossamare their 
market-place on the river side. We left Onitsha 
market with the intention of anchoring off Akra- 
Atani, where we missed Aje on our way up ; but 
through the negligence of the intei-preter, we passed 
the place before we were aware of it ; we, there- 
fore made for Ossamare, but could not reach it 
that evening, so we anchored off a place called 
Osutshi, not visible from the river. I should have 
mentioned that the country at the back of Onitsha 
is dry, with rising ground, and this is said to be 
the character of the country far into the interior, 
with no water on the way. Asaba and Onitsha on 
the opposite shores present the two most promising 
localities to be inspected by those whose lot it may 
be to commence missionary operations among the 
Ibos. In questioning Aliheli, our interpreter, as to 
the dryness of the country in the interior, and 
whether the Elugu and Isuama have canoes ; he 
answered, “ They cannot swim : ” meaning, they are 
not watermen, like the people of Ossamare, some 
of whose canoes are so small, that they sit across 
them, and stretch both their feet in the water, with 


PROJriSING MISSIONAEY STATIONS. 


181 


whicli they propel the canoe, as if a duck were 
swimming in a pond. 

October 31 : Weighing early from Osutshi, we 
anchored off Ossamare, only a short distance from 
it, and went on shore. I was quite disappointed 
in this place, for it was a complete swamp. Al- 
though the river had fallen four feet, ar^d the town 
was partly drained, the spaces between the houses, 
and the squares within them were all mud, and 
the heavy rain of last night made it worse. Be- 
tween the houses immediately facing the river, and 
the king’s house, was a puddle or swamp, with 
about four feet of water, over which were thrown 
some pieces of broken canoes, and some sticks tied 
together in the shape of a bridge to cross to the 
king’s house. PI is square was more like a pigsty 
than the habitation of man ; but the verandahs and 
rooms being raised above the level of the water 
were dry. We managed to get into the house of 
Nzedegu the king. After Dr. Baikie had told him 
the object of his visit to the river, I was introduced 
to him as one having something different to pro- 
pose. I told Nzedegu the wishes and intention of 
good people in our country, to send their liberated 
Ibo countrymen back to their country, to teach 
them what they had been taught in the white man’s 
country, especially the knowledge of the true God 
whom we worship ; that this proposal had been 
made to the chiefs of Aboh, the Atta of Igai’a, 
and other kings in the upper part of the country ; 
and that they all agreed to receive their returning 
countrymen, and to permit their people to bo 


182 


OSSAMARK 


tauglit by them the worship of the true God. He 
replied, that whatever the chiefs of Ahoh, and 
the Atta of Igara, had consented to do, he would 
do also ; besides this, that white men were their 
masters, and whatsoever they propose to them must 
be done. He said, the Isuama people attend 
Ossamai'e market, and that the country extends 
in the interior for many day’s journey. After 
leaving the chief’s house, I walked over the town, 
and looked into many of the houses, and found 
them all of the same character. When the water 
is high, canoes must be used in moving from one 
part of the town to another. Having seen the 
place, and heard the wishes of the chief, we re- 
turned to the ship, and weighed for Aboh, off which 
we anchored in the afternoon. I went on shore 
immediately in the same boat with Captain Taylor, 
Dr. Hutchinson, and Mr. Richards. We landed 
Aliheli, the Haussa interpreter, here. Ahoh was 
found in the same state as Ossamare. Although 
the river had fallen four feet, our boat pulled within 
six yards of Aje’s house, to which we had about five 
minutes’ walk from the creek at our first landing, 
July 22. Large trading canoes were afloat opposite 
the houses in the cross streets ; and as the water 
falls, the mud and puddle is left to be waded 
through by the people as they pass to and fro in 
the town. We managed, partly by skipping or 
tiptoeing over the mud to get into Aje’s house, 
but some of the gentlemen had to be carried on 
men’s shoulders. Aje’s house being built upon a 
mound above the level of the water, was compara- 


INTERVIEW WITH AJE. 


183 


tively dry ; but the square was very damp, and 
green alg£B covered some parts of it. Aje received 
us with much joy ; and that we might enjoy our 
interview, unmolested by the crowd in the open 
but muddy inner square, he invited us into his 
private chamber, which had two or three pigeon 
holes as windows, to admit air and light. He 
desired us to sit down either on the mat he had 
spread for our accommodation, or, those who pre- 
ferred it, on the chair and stool he brought in. 
But this inner room was so dark that we could 
scarcely see one another’s faces, and very close from 
so many sitting together, within so small a compass. 
We therefore preferred the noise in the open square 
to the smothering of the dark private closet ; and 
went out again. I asked for Simon Jonas, who 
was then at Tshukuma’s house, and he was imme- 
diately sent for. After Captain Taylor and Dr. 
Hutchinson had done with trading business, I briefly 
introduced the subject of the contemplated mis- 
sionary establishment among them, but deferred 
entering at length into partieulars till I could see 
him and his brother Tshukuma together. He said 
he knew all about it, and that all would be right. 
I then invited him on board to-morrow morning 
with his brotlier Tshukuma, according to the re- 
quest of Dr. Baikie. We left Aje, and went on 
a visit to his younger brother Okoya, who, Simon 
Jonas said, was very kind to him, and expressed 
his wish many times to see me on my return from 
the Tshadda. He was very glad to see me, and 
entertained us with palm wine and kola nuts ; 


184 - INTERVIEWS WITH AJE AND TSHUKUMA. 

and I invited him with his brother on hoard to- 
morrow. Leaving Okoya, we paid a visit to Tshu- 
kuma who was very glad to see me again, and 
made anxious enquiries after the ship’s crew. When 
I told him that we had all returned as we went, 
•svithout losing a man, either by sickness or accident, 
he grasped me by the hand with repeated greeting, 
and said, “ Your ship is a singular instance,” and 
that we were more fortunate than all the vessels 
that ever visited this river. When I told him how 
far we had been, and that I had visited Hama- 
ruwa, and spoken with the Filani king upon the 
subject of the white man’s religion, and that he 
consented to let his people be taught, — Tshukuma 
was surprised, and looked upon me as if I had 
been to the end of the world. lie asked. Did you 
see and speak with the king of the Filanis ? I said, 
yes ; and that Dr. Baikie had visited and spoken 
with him too, though it took us three days to go 
to him from the water-side and back to the ship. 
Tshukuma pointed to three little boys standing by, 
and said, the Filanis sold all these. I told him 
that he offered to present Dr. Baikie with two 
slaves, but they were refused, and he was told it 
was sinful to possess slaves. Tshukuma could say 
no more, but listened to my brief relation of our 
visit to the countries up the river with perfect 
astonishment. Some traders had seen us at Rogan- 
koto in September, and reported at Aboh that we 
had gone to the black waters, the country occupied 
by the Filanis, the disturbers of the world; hence their 
fear and apprehension for our safety. I invited him 


THEIR VISIT TO THE STEAMER. 


185 


on board with Aje his brother, according to the 
request of Dr. Baikie. We left Aliheli on shore, 
and took Simon Jonas on board with us. Tshu- 
kuma requested that a boat should be sent for him 
to-morrow, which request I promised to make to 
Dr. Baikie. 

November 1 : After breakfast, the gig was sent 
for Tshukuma and Aje according to promise. The 
former came in the gig, but Aje came in state in 
his own large canoe, paddled by thirty pullaboys, 
with about thirty others, including eight or ten of 
their wives who accompanied their husbands on 
board. Tshukuma was dressed in plain white Tur- 
key trousers, and a white English shirt and jacket, 
as when he visited the ship three months ago ; but 
Aje appeared in superfine scarlet Turkey trousers, 
and a scarlet serjeant’s coat with a string of large 
pipe corals thrown over the collar. Both had red 
hats on their heads. Aje reminded me of his father, 
whom he resembled much both in dress and gait, 
and in his keenness as a trader. 

After the usual salutations. Dr. Baikie had a 
long talk with them, after which I introduced the 
subject of resident Christian teachers. Tshukuma 
and Aje had consulted together on the matter pre- 
vious to our arrival, and said that they were quite 
willing to receive them, but that the fault rested 
with us, for we had deceived them before in raising 
their expectation when their father was alive ; and 
now they hesitated to believe till they see us fulfil 
our promise. I then explained the cause of the 
delay, but expressed my hope that it would not be 


186 KINDNESS SHOWN TO SIMON JONAS. 


long before our purpose was effected ; telling them 
that it was on that account I had left Simon Jonas 
with them, that they might have time to think 
sufficiently on the matter. They said, Simon Jonas 
could bear testimony to their willingness, but the 
rest remains with us. 

During the three months Simon J onas remained 
at Aboh, he was treated with a degree of kindness 
and respect, by Tshukuma and Aje, which quite 
exceeded our utmost expectations. He was taken 
ill two weeks after we left, and continued ill a week. 
He was then in Tshukuma’s house ; he says that 
the care and attention received from him, was like 
that of a father. He was sent for by different 
chiefs in the town, for conversation, and to ascertain 
whether what w'as said respecting our intention to 
form an estabhshment at Aboh, was likely to be 
carried out. He often spoke to them about their 
superstitious practices as being foolish, and one 
of them, that of chewing a stick to clean the teeth, 
and then spitting before their country fashion, to 
invoke a blessing upon those who desired their good, 
imprecating his anger upon those who desire their 
hurt, was given u]) by some upon his representing 
to them the folly of so doing. He found them 
teachable, inquisitive, and attentive to what Avas 
told them, and if proper attention were paid to 
them, much good might be done. 

Simon Jonas moved about among tlieni as a 
person of influence, from his superior knowledge, 
and travelled a day’s journey inland to Oko-Ala. 
At this place he Avas asked by the chief, AA'hy Ave 


LIBERATION OF TWO PRISONERS. 


187 


•w’ere going to remain at Aboli, and not with them 
also in Oko-Ala ? Jonas could only tell him, that 
no place would be left unvisited in due time. He 
returned from Oko-Ala the third day fearing that 
the steamer might arrive in his absence. He then 
went to Asaba and Onitsha markets by water. 
These places ai-e about the limit of the Aboh ter- 
ritory. He also visited Akra-Atani, Ossamare, 
Ogume, and Omu-Osai : in all which places he 
was well received. At Aboh, one little boy could 
say all the letters of the alphabet, others have learned 
some letters. Tshukuma had shown Simon Jonas 
a place near his own abode, where he thought a 
house might be birilt for us, if I thought it suitable 
on my retm’ii. He had examined the entire place 
according to my direction, and now left it to me 
to judge of the different localities for myself. 

Kovemhev 2 : After breakfast I went on shore 
with Captain Taylor, and Dr. Hutchinson. Mr. 
Ptichards accompanied me, and we weirt first to 
Aje’s house. While sitting in a private room, about 
10 feet by 5, which received light through six pigeon- 
hole windows, as we were remarking about the 
length and breadth of the rooms, a petition came 
from two prisoners, through Simon Jonas, that we 
should intercede with Aje on their behalf. Being 
requested to mediate, I called the chiefs attention 
to the subject. I first proved the justice of re- 
warding the good, and punishing the evil; saying, 
that it was so in all parts of the world. After 
leaving the matter to work an impression upon 
his mind, I interceded for the prisoners, that they 


188 


WALK THROUGH ABOH. 


might be released for our sake. Aje was struck, 
he paused a little, spoke to one of his attendants, 
and then requested us to come to the square, 
where the prisoners had been bound, neck and feet, 
with chains, for the last twenty days. There he 
seated us, and requested me to repeat what I had 
said to him in his private chamber. This I did 
in the hearing of those present, and of the prisoners 
themselves. Aje replied, in the presence of his 
people, that we were true people, that he would 
not refuse any thing we wished him to do ; that 
if he was about to execute a person, and we were 
to tell him to forbear, he would do so; that if he 
was about to sell a person, and we should foi’bid 
it, he would desist, and that he would act now 
according to our request. He then immediately or- 
dered the two prisoners to be set at liberty. As I 
had landed purposely to go through the town, I took 
Simon Jonas with me, and left Captain Taylor and 
Dr. Hutchinson with the chief, to talk about trading. 
I visited Tshukuma, had some conversation with 
him, and told him that I was going to walk through 
the whole of Aboh. He said he apprehended some 
difficulty in doing so, on account of the mud and 
water in the cross streets, but I told him that I 
had come for the purpose and was determined to 
go through it. Tshukuma was very much in want 
of a chest to keep his clothes in. When Simon 
Jonas was here in 1841, he gave him one of his, 
and the chief now presented Jonas with a country 
cloth, for which he wanted a box in return ; Simon 
could not spare the only one he had, and when I 


ISABA, THE PRESIDENT OF ABOH. 


189 


came in, Tshuknma told me of Simon’s refusal to 
accept his present. Simon then explained the matter, 
and the chief pressed upon him the cloth or linen, 
which I told him to accept. I wrote Tshukuma’s 
want of a box in my note book, and requested him 
to be patient till next year, when I hoped he would 
receive one. He offered to make me a present 
of a ram, which I requested him to keep till next 
year, please God, for the entertainment of my friends 
who might come; and we took our leave. I next 
paid a visit to Isaha, an old man, whom I may call 
the King’s Counsellor. He is the keeper of the 
suits and other articles used Avhen the king goes 
through the ceremonial of being acknowledged as 
the sovereign of the nation. Since the death of 
the late Obi Osai, no one has been elected king in his 
stead, and Isaha has been acting as the president 
of Aboh. All important matters are therefore re- 
ferred to him for decision, though Aje assumes the 
air of royalty, on account of his wealth, influence, 
and power ; and being an active and intelligent man, 
he is feared by the people. Isaha was very glad to see 
me, and asked whether Tshukuma had not mentioned 
his name to me ; as he had not done so, I informed 
Isaba that Tshukuma had promised to tell all the 
head chiefs what I had said to him, and observed 
that I did not doubt but that he, Isaba, was the 
principal person intended. The thought that he 
was not slighted pleased him ; I then told Isaba 
that I had heard of his great name, and came to 
apprise him of our intention to send some Ibo 
teachers to Aboh, to reside there and teach the 


190 


DESCRIPTION or THE TOWN. 


people God’s book, and white man’s fashion. He 
expressed his joy at the idea, and said that he 
had a female relation in Sierra Leone, whom he 
would be very glad to see at Aboh. This relative 
I afterwards understood to be the wife of J. Grant, 
one of the Ibo interpreters, who had visited Isaba 
the evening before. He entei’tained us with kola nuts. 
Leaving Isaba’s house, I commenced my inspection 
of the town, from N.E. to S.W. it is fully a mile 
in length, and about 200 yards in breadth, lying 
parallel with the creek, with a wide opening along 
side the creek, the cross streets ninning nearly east 
and west. The greatest disadvantage to Aboh is 
the creeks formed up their streets at the rising of the 
river. The people themselves help much towards it, 
by digging clay in the streets, and in the front of 
their houses ; and the holes admit water at every 
rise of the river. Thus what was before regular 
streets, are now nothing but so many small creeks 
through the town. Moreover, they widen and deepen 
the streets, that canoes may be brought nearer their 
houses at high water. From these causes, the state 
of the long and cross streets was such that I should 
have had greater facility in my inspection had we 
been a week earlier, for I could have gone over the 
whole in a canoe paddled from house to house, btit 
the river having fallen four feet already, nothing but 
mud remained, except where the water was deep 
enough for a canoe ; and I had to wade through the 
streets. The sites of the houses, and the huge 
cotton-trees 'are undermined by the encroaching 
stream, though they still maintain their hold. But 


SITE FOE A MISSION. 


191 


the fall of a tree would carry with it the ruin of 
many houses, and risk the life of their inmates. 
Other spots, sheltered by sacred groves and bushes, 
are not suffered to be cleansed, but left untouched, 
to be the receptacle of filth. This state of things 
served to show the real height of Aboh above the 
level of the water, before it was spoiled through the 
foolishness of the people. The south-west end of 
the town being but recently inhabited, has not yet 
sufiered so much as the north-east ; but the same 
plan of digging pits in the streets, and from the 
water’s edge, is followed there also. At this end of 
the town, towards the entrance of the creek, within 
a short distance of the vessel’s anchorage, in the 
main river, I have fixed upon a spot of land for a 
contemplated Mission establishment, and given Aje 
a strict charge not to suffer any of his people to 
meddle with the place, or allow the near neighbours 
to dig away the soil (which is in a great measure 
sandy), that no water may encroach and spoil that 
part also. Aje said, the land was his, and he would 
take care of it for us. I have taken this step to 
secure the spot at once, as being the best I could at 
the time discover. It will be left to those who may 
have to commence Missionary operations here, to use 
their own discretion when upon the spot. But after 
all that can be done, the place can only be occujjied 
by native teachers. I cannot recommend it for the 
residence of European Missionaries, though they may 
occasionally visit it from the upper and healthier 
parts of the country. 

Having proved the good-will of the chiefs and 


192 


THE GOD TSIIUKU. 


people, the respect they have for their countrymen 
who have enjoyed greater advantages than them- 
selves, their willingness to be taught, and their 
anxious expectation to see us fulfil the promise long 
made to their late king in this respect — I cannot but 
conclude my report of Aboh by saying, I assuredly 
gather that the Lord hath called the Church to 
preach the Gospel to them. 

In the evening, we shifted from our anchorage, 
and dropped a mile below Aboh into the open stream. 

November 3 : W eighed eaidy this morning, and 
anchored off Agberi, the first Oru village helow the 
Aboh district. Here we purchased fuel, of which the 
people had a large quantity for their own use, as they 
keep fires almost always burning in their houses, to 
dry them, and counteract the danqi which proves so 
injurious to the inhabitants of the Delta. There 
were two headmen in the village, one an old man, 
called Igbema, and the other a much younger person, 
called Agbekun. The latter visited our ship when 
am’ouud above Truro island on the 18th of July. 
Since that time Agbekun has been absent at Aro, 
the capital of a district of that name near Isuama, 
where the T.shuku, the great god of the Ibos, resides. 
Agbekun, being childless, went thither to inquire of 
the god. While there, he went through many cere- 
monies, and performed many sacrifices ; and had 
just returned with a favourable answer from Tshuku, 
whom, however, he himself did not see, because all 
communication with him must be carried on through 
the priests. He brought back some representations 
of guardian gods from Tshuku, three of which he 


THE TRUE GOD DECLARED. 


J93 


showed us as a proof that he had truly been in the 
place of Tshuku. This is always reported to be at 
a distance of about three months’ journey, though 
Agbekun performed it and back, with the perform- 
ance of all the ceremonies, within that period. This 
gave me the opportunity of speaking to him about 
the true God, to whom I endeavoured to turn his 
attention to look for blessings, both temporal and 
spiritual. He wanted to know how to pray to the 
Great God, whom he knew to be greater than Tshuku. 
I told him to do so, just as a little child wordd 
ask his father for what he is in need of Agbekun 
was very shy in speaking much about the Tshuku of 
the Ibos, as a great mystery is connected even with 
tlie place of his residence. Since his retixrn, he has 
been going through some ceremonies, and cannot be 
seen or spoken to much in public, till the time allotted 
to them has expired, which will be in about two days. 
In consequence of this, he did not attend market ; 
but he was told, that as we were from white man's 
country, his ceremony could not be spoiled by his 
conversation with us. He replied, There is no 
hatred in white man’s country as in black man's 
country.” I told him to look at me, a Yoruba by 
birth ; Simon Jonas, an Ibo ; and Dr. Baikie, an 
Englishman ; though of diffei’ent nations, we live 
together as brethren, and so our God teaches all 
men to love one another. I expressed my hope that 
we should soon be able to teach them this love, which 
he was glad to hear. When comparing Oru and 
Brass, or Itebu words together, his attention was 
called off to settle some mistake made about the pur- 

K 


194 


ANGIAMA. 


chase of wood outside. Dr. Baikie pointed out to 
me an Ai’6 man, Okori by name, a blacksmith, who 
had lately come to Agberi with his son, -with whom 
we had some conversation. He told us the names of 
some places of importance on the way to Arb, by the 
Bonny I'iver, above Aboh ; he knew the town of Simon 
Jonas, in Isuama, not far from Arb. At noon we 
weighed from Agberi, and anchored at the lower end 
of the branch explored by the AVillicrforce, a mile or 
two above Angiama.* 

November 4 : 'SVe dropped down to Angiama to 
visit the chief, as well as to piu’chase some wood. 
This place was completely swamped ; how the people 
could live there I really coidd not conceive. We 
were seated in an mifinished house, when Ndawa, the 
chief, made his ai^pearance. Pie was the same person 
who requested that the ship should stop and trade on 
our ascent. Dr. Baikie gave him a present of some 
red cloth as a kind of inducement to get his people 
to sell wood, of which they had abundance, owned by 
the women, piled up in large heaps under their store 
houses. These houses are erected upon sticks about 
four feet high from the ground, to avoid damjj and 
moisture, and separate from their group of dwellings, 
to avoid fire, which may break out among them. In 
a very short time, plenty of dry wood was bought 
for scissors, needles, snuff-boxes, and brass ferret-bells, 
with which they were exceedingly delighted. The 
chief invited Dr. Baikie on shore to his house, and 
presented hun with a sheep, yams, and cocoa-nuts. 
The Doctor impressed upon him the necessity of 

* See Schou and Crowthcr’s Journal, p. 38. 


THE LAST SUNDAY IN THE KIVER. 


195 


maintaining friendship with white men, that trade 
might be carried on with him as well as with other 
chiefs in the interior and on the river. He then gave 
the chief a red serge cloak, which was very accept- 
able ; and he promised to see that no molestation 
was offered to any boat or canoe belonging to us, 
which may go up or down the river. It will be re- 
membered that this was the place where Mr. Lander 
was mortally wounded. Having completed our busi- 
ness at Angiama, we weighed about nine A.M., and were 
once more in sight of the salt water at a quarter-past 
two P.M., dropping anchor about an hour after — -just 
sixteen weeks, this very day, since leaving the spot. 

Here again we have cause to raise our Ebenezer 
to God, who has led us out, and brought us in, in 
safety, both Europeans and Natives, without losing a 
single person either from sickness or accident. 

November 5, Sunday : We lay at anchor, and 
preparations were made for crossing the bar on Mon- 
day. Mr. May, accompanied by Mr. Richai'ds, left 
the ship early in the morning on a visit to Brass 
River, by the creek. They returned a little before 
sunset, but brought no news of any importance, nei- 
ther letter nor newspaper. I held Divine service at 
half-past ten, and preached from Joshua xiv. 6 and 7. 
All the officers on board manifested an earnest desu’e 
to return thanks to the Lord, who has so mercifully 
dealt with us during our voyage up the river. 

November 6 : Steam was got up before daylight, 
and as soon as we could see sufficiently, taking advan- 
tage of high water, by seven o’clock, the ‘ Pleiad,’ 
piloted by ^Ii’. Richards, crossed the bar in smooth 

K 2 


196 


WELCOME AT FERNANDO PO. 


water, as if she was sailing in Clarence Cove. Here 
are again additional mercies, for which we cannot be 
thankful enough. About noon, the schooner ‘ Mary,' 
Captain Eobertson, from Bonny, hove in sight. We 
came up to her, when Mr. Robertson boarded us, and 
brought a newspaper as late as August 19. He also 
gave us some news about the coast, and said that the 
mail steamer ‘ Ethiope ’ had left only about two 
days before. It was cheering, after four months’ 
absence in the river, without communication with our 
friends, to hear news again of the civilized world. 

November 7 : Fernando Po was in sight this 
morning ; and about five P.M. we dropped anchor in 
Clarence Cove, having been boarded by !Mi'. Mac- 
kenzie a short time before. We soon landed, and 
were received by Governor Lynslager, Rev. Mr. Di- 
boU, the Baptist Missionary, and all "the native set- 
tlers, with heartfelt gratitude that we aU have been 
spared to return from the river in good health and 
spirits. 

May this singular instance of God's favour and 
protection drive us nearer to the throne of grace, to 
humble ourselves before our God, whose instruments 
we are, and wRo can continue or dispense with our 
services, as it seems good to His unerring wisdom. 

Samuel Crowthee. 


APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX I. 


THE COUNTRIES ON THE BANKS OF THE NIGER 
AND BINUE. 


Ahheoliuta, Jan. 1855. 

Eev. and Dear Sir, 

I could not complete my notices of tlie coun- 
tries and languages on the banks of the Niger and 
Binue, in Central Africa, by the time I left the 
‘ Bacchante,’ ^Yhich sailed for England last month, 
so I hojie at this time to put you in jiossession of 
those notices, trusting they will be helpful in some 
respects in future researches in those countries. 

You will be aware that the ])eople we passed 
in our ascent are the Oru and Abo in the Delta, the 
Igarra on the left of the Niger, the Kakanda at the 
Confluence of the Kowara and Tshadda, the Ighira, 
Bassa, Doma, Mitshi, and Djuku, otherwise called 
Apa, or Akpa, or Baihai, the language of Kororofa, 
and the Fulah on the r>inue. 

1. The Oru, or Ijo, or Udso of Koelle are identical 
with Brass, at the mouth of the Nun, on the coast, 
otherwise called Itehu or Nempe, by their Ibo 
neighbours. This language is spoken to the extent 
of 100 miles from the mouth of the Nun, to the 
boundary of Abo tcrritoiy : how far inland towards 
Benin, on the right and towards the Ibo country, 
on the left of the Niger, is yet unknown. 

2. The Abo is a dialect of the Ibo lanirnarrc. 


200 


APPENDIX I. 


commencing from about tbe Benin branch of the Ni- 
ger, and extending to Asaba (Onia market of Trotter). 
It comprises a district of about 50 or 60 miles along 
tbe banks of the Niger, and is very extensively spoken 
in its various dialects in the countries inland, on the 
left bank of the Niger, as far as we could ascertain, 
from the information we collected, to Cross River, on 
the back of Old Calabar ; the Calabar or Efik and 
Bonny trade with the Ibo in the interior, — Isoama 
seems to be the leading or popular dialect of this 
language ; all Ibo people who meet together in Sierra 
Leone, whether of the Abo, Elugu, Aro, or Abadja 
tribe, speak Isoama, and it has been recommended 
as the best to be used in the translations into the 
Ibo language : the Rev. J. F. Schdn translated his 
vocabulary in this dialect. The Bonny or Okoloma, 
and New Calabar language is different from the Ibo, 
and from the fact that Bonny is principally peo- 
pled by Ibo slaves, and their continued intercourse 
with the Ibo of the interior, it may be inferred 
that in course of time, the Ibo language will gain 
advantage over the Bonny, which is very limited 
on the coast, when books are published in the Ibo 
language. 

3. Tlie next country after the Ibo, on the hanks 
of the Niger is Igarra, the language of Igarra is 
the same as the Akpotto and is spoken from Ada- 
mugu to the Confluence of the Kowara and Tshadda, 
to the extent of HO miles on the banks of the Niger. 
It is also extensively spoken inland on the left bank 
of the Niger, to the Mitshi country, on the left bank 
of the Binue — about the longitude of Ojogo. This 


APPENDIX I. 


201 


language appears to be a mixture of Yoruba and the 
original Akpotto ; its comparison with the Yoruba 
in the accompanying table will at once shew their 
relationship. 

4. The Kakanda is the next country on the 
banks of the Niger, and the language is a dialect 
of Yoruba. This people have been so much driven 
about, that the limits of their country are very diffi- 
cult to ascertain ; they inhabited the mountains on 
the right side of the Kowara and border on Nupe : 
at present they inhabit chiefly the left banks of 
the Niger, below the Confluence, since they were 
expelled from their mountain holds, by Dasaba, 
King of Nupe. 

5. The next country after the Kakanda is Nupe, 
very much unsettled about the time of our visit. 
It has not therefore been explored. 

6. From the Confluence on the right side of 
the Tshadda, is the Igbira country, called Koto 
by the Ilaussa, and Kotokori by the Yoruba ; since 
their country has been overrun by the Felatas, they 
liave removed to the left side of the river, in the 
country of Akpotto. Their language is different 
from Igarra. There is also a tribe of this people 
called Igbira Hima, on the right side of the Niger 
between Idda and the Confluence. 

7. The next country after Igbira, on the right 
side of the Tshadda is Bassa, whose language appears 
to be a distant dialect of the Nupe. Their country 
has also been overrun by the Felatas, and they 
were obliged to seek refuge in Akpotto land, after 
the example of their neighbours the Igbira. 


202 


APPENDIX I. 


8. The next country on the right side of the 
Tshadda, is Doma, also called Arago, a tribe of which 
is called Agatu, inhabiting Akpotto land on the 
left side of the Tshadda, to which they had been 
driven by the Felani. I shall annex a comparative 
table of the language, as it also appears to me to be 
of the Yoruba class, if not Yoruba in its origin. 

9. The next country on the left side of the 
Tshadda, is the Mitshi, whose language is very 
little known and very peculiar to itself. The Mitshi 
country commences as it appears opposite Ojogo, 
and is mixed with the Akpottp and with Kororofa 
from which it is difficult to distinguish the bound- 
aries. They are chiefly independent, but some 
portion of them pay tribute to Wukari, King of 
Kororofa. 

10. The next country after the Mitshi, is exten- 
sive, — Kororofa having, Wukari for its capital, and 
the language spoken is Djuku, commonly called 
Akpa, but they call themselves Baibai. The language 
is spoken as far as Hamaruwa, now under the 
government of Mohamma, the Felani Sultan of that 
country. 

11. The next language we met with on the 
Binue, is the Felani. 

12. The most important of all is the Haussa, 
the commercial language of Central Africa.* 

From the above enumeration of languages, it 
will be seen that twelve distinct translations will 
be necessary to diffuse Christianity right and left 
on the banks of the Niger and Tshadda, and into 

* For the extent of each country on the hanks of the 
river, see the Map at the commencement of the volume. 


APPENDIX I. 


203 


the interior as far as these languages are spoken ; 
the same will be applicable in commercial inter- 
course with those nations : but there is a fact whic^h 
has not been sufficiently noticed, that is, the facility 
which is given in communicating with these different 
nations on the banks of the Kowara and Binue, 
through the medium of the Haussa language, which 
is extensively spoken by the different tribes, with 
whom we had communication. 

From Oru in the Delta, we already commenced 
meeting with solitary opportunities of communicating 
with the people, through Haussa slaves. From 
Abo we engaged an Haussa interpreter who was 
very serviceable to us throughout the Expedition. 
At Idda we found that the Haussa language was 
becoming more generally spoken by the inhabitants. 
Salutations in that language generally sounded in 
our ears. At Igbegbe near the Confluence, the 
Haussa is one of the prevailing languages spoken 
by the mixed population of that market town, and 
it is the chief medium of communication in com- 
mercial transactions, though Igbira is the language 
of the place. 

At Yimaha in the Igbira country, at Oruko in the 
Bassa country, at Doma, also among the hitherto un- 
known Mitshis, among the inhabitants of extensive Ko- 
rorofa, and with the Filanis of Hamaruwa, the Haussa 
language was the chief medium of communication, 
both with the chiefs and the people whom we visited 
during the late Expedition, and I was told that the 
knowledge of Haussa will bring any one to Mecca. 
From Igarra and upwards, though each language 

K 5 


204 


APPENDIX I. 


must ultimately be learnt, and translations be made 
into it, yet it appears to me, that a good translation 
into the Haussa language, for general use for travel- 
ling Missionaries among the nations above men- 
tioned, will not fail to be of an invaluable advantage ; 
this language seems to me, destined by God to be the 
general medium of imparting the knowledge of 
Christianity, to a very great extent among the 
nations by whom it is spoken, Avheu we take the 
Haussa themselves of Kano, Katshina, Zanfara, and 
other tribes speaking that language as their own, 
into consideration : all the Mahommedans under- 
stand and speak the Haussa language, and through 
it the Koran is explained and interpreted in their 
mosques throughout Yoruba. So that from Lagos, 
Badagry, and Porto Novo, and upwards to the 
Niger, where Mahommedans are fouiid, the Haussa 
language is spoken by them. Now, if we glance on 
the map, it will be at once seen to what extent this 
language is spoken, and its general usefulness in 
every respect. 

From this cii’cumstance, I may suggest that 
the reduction of the Haussa language is of very 
great importance, especially if there is any pro- 
bability of an annual visit to the Niger and Binue by 
steam-vessels, for the purpose of commerce ; and even 
if no attempt can yet be made to commence Mis- 
sionary operations about the Confluence of the 
Kowara and Tshadda, such translations will be of 
general use among whatever tribes the travellers go. 
Schdn's Vocabulary needs to be revised and improved. 
I shall be ready to contribute what I have now 


APPENDIX I. 


205 


in possession towards such improvement when re- 
quired. 

Here I am led to remark the usefulness of Koelle’s 
Polyglotta Africana. The languages above enumera- 
ted, except the Doma and Mitshi,* were found among 
his specimens ; and in those cases no time was wasted 
in attempting to correct him, for these reasons — 1st. 
It was sufficient to know he has got specimens of 
the language, constituting a good guide, and time 
Avould be lost in going over the same ground again. 
2nd. The correction attempted might he useless, be- 
cause one tribe may pronounce the same thing one 
way, and another another way, by changing letters ; 
for instance — 

English. Oru. Brass or Itebu. 

Water Megi Migi 

Fire ‘ Feni Fendi 

among the Oru, and Brass, or Nempe. But addi- 
tional words or phrases contributed to his few speci- 
mens, would tend to make the language better known. 
3rd. The time was too short to do it properly. 

In looking over Mr. Koelle’s collections, I could 
not help regretting that he has sometimes spent 
enormous labour in repeating, as many as twelve 
specimens, as under the head of Aku, what are 
merely variations in dialect and not of language; 
the seeming difference being no greater than that 
each tribe -would pronounce the same word according 
to his peculiar tone or accent. The word would 
be commonly understood, it being no other language, 
— though sometimes different words are given ; but 
* See note, p. 234. 


206 


APPENDIX I. 


these are not many. I could increase the dialects 
of the Yoruha tongue to twice that number, and 
yet two translations are not necessary among them. 
The same remark is applicable to Mr. Koelle’s 
two specimens, under Haussa of Kano, and Kat- 
shina ; and his five specimens of Ibo, under Iso- 
ama, — the change of r for I, or for n, s for sh, is 
very common, and constitutes in many cases the 
chief difference of a tribe. The people from different 
tribes meeting to transact their usual business do not 
take much notice of their difference in this respect, 
so long as they can understand one another; there- 
fore, their being written as specimens, beyond enu- 
meration of the tribes under a certain head, seems to 
be unnecessary. But the work is a valuable pro- 
duction, and of great utility to a great distance in 
Western Central Africa.* 

There are three places which go by the name 
of Ado about this part of the country. One is south 
of Otta, twenty miles north of Badagry ; one is 
not far from Isehin, in the Yoruha country ; one is 
between Benin and Abo, inland, on the right side of 
the Niger, opposite Adamugu. This last Ado appears 
to be not far from Ijesa country, near Ife, and among 
the following group of tribes of Yoruba dialects ; viz.: 
Ijamb, 'Efon, Ondo, Idoko, Igbomna, Ife, Ijesa, Ado. 
This last is the Ado mistaken for the one near Ba- 
dagry by Mr. Koelle, consequently the position of his 
Ijesa in that place is wrong ; the situation of Ijesa 
near Ife, north of Ijebu, will be more correct. 

* The Map accompanying this volume will correct, in some 
measure, Mr. Koelle’s positions of those countries visited by 
the Expedition. 


APPENDIX I. 


207 


Isoama, in the Ibo country, is on the left side of the 
Niger, north of Aro, and not on the right, as Mr. 
Koelle was informed, but an accurate knowledge of 
these places can only be obtained by further re- 
searches. 

I cannot bring these notices to a close without 
again pressing the necessity of immediate steps being 
taken, when another Expedition ascends the river, to 
locate some persons of the Ibo nation in the town 
of Abo, and, if possible, also some Christian teachers 
at the Confluence of the Kowara and Tshadda ; the 
latter is a nucleus of trade between the natives of 
the interior, and the situation most important. 
When two or three yearly visits in succession are 
made by steam-ships, there will be mutual under- 
standing between England and the inhabitants of 
the Delta, the river will be opened for our boats 
and canoes, as the Ogun is at present with us in 
Abbeokuta. It is my belief, and I do not express 
it from a momentary excitement, that the Niger 
Mission may yearly be visited by prudent and 
experienced Missionaries from the Yoruba countiy. 
It only requires that seasonable opportunity be 
seized to open the way, and keep a chain of com- 
munication between this and the Niger, so that in 
case there is no opportunity of visiting it by steam 
from the sea, the Mission will not be neglected, when 
it can be visited by the land route. 


APPENDIX II 


1. COMPAEISON OF LANGUAGES. 


English. 

A large thing 
A small thing 
White book 
Black book 
Black man 
This thing is good 

A had person 

Old cloth 
Old man 
A young man 
I am sick 
I am well 

It is hot 


Igarra.* 
Nhun yi nanna 
Nhun yi yan 
Takarda funfun 
Takarda dudu 
Enia dudu 
Nhun yi yon 
r Enni ibi (evil 
1 of Yoruba) 

Igbo ipo 
Onia anagbo 
Onia kolobia 
Oga mu mi 
Oga mi tan 
J Emi jo (jo, to bum, 
\ is used) 

Afun apa mi 
Tpo yi tsomi 
Tpo mi gbe 


I am cold 
Tlie cloth is wet 
My cloth is dry 
Thisperson isgreedy Enni pari 
A stupid person Enni dada 

A rich person 

A poor jjerson 

A straight stick 

A crooked stick 


Yoruba. 

Ohun yi nila 
Ohun yi kere 
Takarda funfun 
Takarda dudu 
Enia dudu 
Ohun yi dara 

j- Enia or Enni buhurit 

Aso gbigbo 
Enia arugbo 
Ommo konri enia 
Aron mu mi 
Aron mi tan 

j- Omi gbona 

Otutu mu mi 
Aso yi tutu 
Aso mi gbe 
Enni yi lawon 
Enia gigb 


Enni etse nuhun 
Enni ale 


r Enni ti o solohun, 

(. or olowo 

Enni oluponju 

r Ori Id boro, Nle) ^ . . 

< ¦ ¦ r tito 

( yanja J 

Ori ki go Iggi wiwo 


* See my remarks on this language in my Journal of the Ex- 
pedition, 1854, p. 355. 


APPENDIX II. 


209 


English. 

Igarra. 

Yoruba. 

Governor of a province, 1 
entitled King J 

- Onu 

Olu 

Medicine 

Ogun 

Ogun 

Face 

Eju 

Iwaju 

Nose 

Imo 

Imo 

Ear 

Eti 

Eti 

Mouth 

All! 

Ennu 

Tooth 

Eyin 

Eyin or Ehin 

But other words are entirely distinct, as in 

Blood 

Ehia 

% 

Small Pox 

Oyasuma 

Sanpanna, &c. 


English. 

Doma. 

Yoruba. 

Ear-ring 

Oruka 

Oruka eti 

Fire 

r Ola, from Yoruba,! 

- Ina 


( la, to lick J 


Axe 

Akeke 

Akeke or Ake 

Sun 

Eno 

Orun 

Dry season 

Ono 

Eriln 

Thread, cotton 

Owu 

Owu 

Rope 

Ongua 

Okun 

Tree 

C Okpa,Oj5a, Yoruba! 

- Ijlffi 


( word for a stick j 



r Okute,Okaje,from-v 

\ 

W alking-stick 

¦< Yoruba, Ekute, | 

y Opa 


^ post J 

1 

Yam 

Isi 

Isu 


210 


APPENDIX II. 


English. 

Doma. 

Yoi'uba. 

Onion 

Alibosa 

r Oyan, from Yoruba -j 

Alubosa 

1 

Horse 

Milk 

< Tan, to neigh, to 

V gfipe J 

> Esin 

Ame 

Omu 

Egg 

Ayi 

Eyin 

Musquito 

( Emia, from Yoruba 

1 Eminrin, sandfly 


House 

Ole 

Lie 

Leopard 

f Eje, from Yoruba Je,') 
\ to eat J 

• Ekun 


r Oyan yan, from Yo--v 


Chameleon 

< ruba, Yan, to walk > 
^ leisurely ' 

- Agemo 


r Okiritu, from Yoruba, 


Frog 

s Kirifo, a leaping, > 
^ roving about ) 

¦ Ppollo 

White man 

Oyibo 

Oyibo 

Young 

Opepe 

Opepe, a young per- 



son 


2. PEESONAL PKONOUNS. 

I 

Ami, Na, Ni, Nga, M. N. 

•0 

Thou 

Awo, 0 

Iwo, 0 

He, she, it 

Anu 

On 

We 

Awa 

Awa 

You 

A ni 

Enjdn 

They 

AI 9 

Awon 


APPENDIX II. 


211 


English. 

Doma. 

Yoruba. 

We three sit down 

Awa setta awa 
ayaje 

Awa metta awa joko 

You three sit down Ani setta ani ayaje 

Enyin metta enyin 
joko 

They three sit down Alo setta alo ayaje 

Aw 9 n metta awon 
joko 

3. 

REFLECTIVE PRONOUNS. 

I myself 

Amu amu obohin 

Emiti karami 

Thou thyself 

Oyi iwo ne 

Iwoti karare 

He himself 

Ase ni abohinu 

Onti karare 

We ourselves 

Awo bokiwo 

Awati karawa 

They themselves 

Alo bokigalo 

Awonti karawon 

Some words are boiTowed from the Haussa. 

English. 

Doma. 

Haussa. 

Book 

Takarda 

Takarda 

Ink J 

C Orubutu,fromi2u-') 
t hutu, to write j 

Tadawi 

Rice 

Sinkafa 

Sinkafa 

Ram 

Rago 

Rago 

Lead 

Aderema 

Darima 

Chain for neck 

Asirika 

Saraka 

Drum 

Okanga 

Ganga 


From the above comparison, it will be seen that the Doma 
appears to be a kindred language to the Yoruba, both 
from the formative prefix, construction of sentences, and 
by a careful trace of many of its words, which seem to 
have Yoruba roots and ideas for its origin : when the 
language is properly reduced, it will not unlikely be found 


212 


APPENDIX II. 


to partake of Yoruba, and otlier neighbouring languages, 
with which it has become mixed in course of time, like 
that of the Igarra and Akpotto. 


4. COMPARISON OF THE LANGUAGES OF 
THE DELTA. 


English. 

Oru or Ijg. 

Brass, Itebu 
or Nempe. 

Bonny. 

Water 

Megi 

Migi 

Mingi 

Fire 

Fini 

Fendi 

Fene 

Firewood 

Fendia 

Fingia 


Mat 

Ute 

Ute 

Bile 

House 

Wale 

Wale 

Wari 

Idol 

Owu 

Owu 

Juju 

God 

Orisa 

Orisa 

Tamonp* 


5. TERMINOLOGY FROM KING PEPPEL. 

Bonny is called Okoloma by themselves, 

„ Okoloba, Obani, or Ibani, by the Ibos. 

„ Osiminiku by Abo tribe of Ibo. 

New Calabar is called Bom by the Ibo. 

King Peppel said that Bonny was chiefly peopled by 
Ibo slaves, though they speak the Okoloma or Bonny 
language, which is also the language of New Calabar. 

I I’emain, Rev. and Dear Sir, 

Your obedient humble servant, 

Samuel Crowther. 


* This name, Peppel king of Bonny, told me is applicable to the 
true God, others more to country fashion. 


APPENDIX II. 


213 


6. TRANSLATIONS. 


English. 

Doma or Arago. 

Mitshi. 

One 

Oye 

Mom 

Two 

Onpa 

Hari 

Three 

Metta 

Tara 

Four 

Menni 

Yin 

Five 

Meho 

Tan 

Six 

Mihiri 

Kannon 

Seven 

Mohapa 

Karhari 

Eight 

Mohata 

Kartar 

Nine 

Mohani 

Karyin 

Ten 

Iguo 

Pue 

Eleven 

Iguo-roye 

Pue karmon 

Twelve 

Iguo-epa 

Pue karhari 

Thirteen 

Iguo-etta 

Pue kartari 

Fourteen 

Iguo-enni 

Pue karyin 

Fifteen 

Iguo-eho 

Pue kartan 

Sixteen 

Iguo-ihiri 

Pue tartan 

Seventeen 

Iguo-apapa 

Pue tankartan 

Eighteen 

Iguo-ahatan 

Pue yinyin 

Nineteen 

Iguo-ahanni 

Pue kartarkaryin 

Twenty 

Iniye-gase 

Kundu 

Man 

Ose 

Numguso 

Woman 

Gboyin-ole 

Kuasa 

Boy 


Wana 

Girl 


Guana 

Father 

Ada 


Mother 

Enim 



* The Haussa being the medium of collection, sh has been 
retained to avoid two diflerent modes of spelling. 


214 


APPENDIX ir. 


English. 

Doma or Arago. 

Mitshi. 

Grandfather 

Osumoka 


Grandmother 

Obohun 


Son 

Oyimeme 


Daughter 



Elder Brother 

Osmn 


Younger Brother Oldnahin 


Elder Sister 

Onume 


Younger Sister 

Okinahin 


Friend 

'Qya 

Kara 

Stranger 

'Oga 

Worobanyi 

IGng 

Osse 


Male Slave 

Ofie neyunro 


Female Slave 

Ofie niyan 


Doctor 

Oboshi 


Medicine 

Eshi 


Head 

Eyin 

Ntshowo 

Hair 

Eyin-elih 

Itshe 

Face 

Ogii 

Ishigi 

Forehead 

Ogoyanraa 

Itshuru 

Nose 

Ewun 

Shami 

Eye 

lyepu 

Eshie 

Ear 

Apaha 

Ato 

Mouth 

Okonu 

Ijua 

Tooth 

Ahunnu 

Ayin 

Tongue 

Enne 

Nomburo 

Throat 

Ario-ogoyin 


Gullet 



Neck 

'Oko 


Shoulder 

Atshobo 


Arm 

Abo 



Arm, between 

shoulder and > Igb9bo 
elbow ^ 


APPENDIX II. 


215 


Arm, between elbow ) 


and wrist j 

Mugabo 

Leg 

Ikpo 

Outer band, or hand 

Abon 

Inner hand 

Akpugabo 

Foot, or instep 1 

Ikpo 

of the foot ] 

Foot sole 

Ipugikpo 

Finger 

Abo 

Toe 

Okubikpo 

Elbow 

Okekebobo 

Rib 

Akoro 

Chest 

Otu 

Female breast 

Ame 

BeUy 

Ipu 

Navel 

Ondo 

Thigh 

Atoku 

Knee 

Okuku 

Heel 

Ikpokitipi 

Nail of finger or toe 

Ekugabo 

Skin 

Okpakipie 

Bone 

Kpoku 

Vein 


Blood 

Oyi 

Itch 

Ekke 

Small Pox 

Eleyanku 

Hat 

Akata 

Cap 

Otingira 

Shoe 

Okpa 

Shirt 

Togbo 

Trousers 

Owiriki 


Mitshi. 


216 


APPENDIX II. 


English. Doma or Arago. Mitshi. 


Waistclotli 

Akiri, Zanua 

Kondo 

Town (village) 

Oja, Oja yan ku 


Market 

Izhi 

Kazua, kasua 

House 

Ole 

Yobp 

Door 

Ozogo-ikole 


Doorway 

Koniko ikoda 


Bed 

Agodo 


Mat 

Ozura 


Knife 

Ewa 

Tho 

Spoon 

Ebu 

^ -w ( 

Hima (Iron ring to 
draw the bow) 

Ear-ring 

Orika 1 

Armlet, Bracelet 'Oje 

Kerifi 

Pot 

Eyi 

Tiage 

Calabash, (large) Obatu 

Kapu 

Calabash, (sma 

11) Ogo 


Gun 

Egbi 

Burka 

Powder 

Ow 


Sword 

Ewakpa 

Ishomo 

Spear 

Okpa 

Iwanga 

Bow 

Oyi 

Ada 

Ai’i’ow 

Ota 

Bana 

Quiver 

Ashangba 

Gbanda . 

War 

Efd 

Tiaba 

God 

Oso 

Wondo 

DevU 

Eshi 


Idol 

Eshi 


Greegree 

Orio 


Sacrifice 

Yobirild nke 


Heaven (sky) 
Hell 

Oso 



APPENDIX II. 


217 


English. 

Fire 
Water 
Soup ‘ 
Meat (often 
animal) 
Salt 
Gold 
Iron 
Stone 
Hoe 
Axe 
Book 
Ink 
Sun 

Moon (full) 

New Moon 

Hay 

Night 

Dry season 

Rainy season 

Rain 

Dew 

Coal 

Smoke 

Soap 

Sand 

Canoe 

Ship 

Bench, chair 

Needle 

Thread 


Doma, or Arago. 
Ola 
Eyin 
Ibobo 

Ebe 

Omua 
Ozanaria 
Oje, nofi 
. 

Fnu 

Akeke 

Takarda 

Orubutu 

Eno 

Oya 

Oya fufe 

Eno 

Otu 

Ono 

Ogua 

Oso, or uso 

Ome 

Ubi’ 

Iwola 

Uk5 

Oje 

Owu, 

Owugeibo 

Okka 

Oyina 

Owu 


MiisJd, 

Wusu 

Ngoromi 


Akara 


Igbanda 


L 


218 

APPENDIX II. 

English. 

Doma. 

Eope 

Ongua 

Chain, fetters for 

Ashirika, for the 

the feet and 

hand ; Eye- 

neck 

otikpo, for the 
feet 

Drum 

Okanga 

Tree 

Okpa 

Fire-wood 

Efii-kola 

Walking-stick 

Leaf 

Root 

Palm-tree 

Okute-okaje 

Epu 

Egba ko kposhi 
Ikpari, Ikposhi-)^ 

kikpari j 

Palm-oil 
Guinea-corn, -v 

Anonowa 

with head like > 

lye 

a maize ^ 

Kuskus, bearing! 
a head hke oats / 

"Igu 

Cotton 

Cotton plant (a! 

shrub) J 

Cotton tree 

Cam wood 

Rice (uncooked! 

Own 

Ikposhi-gowu 

Ugu nigbije 
Oshigewo 

Shinkufa 

and cooked) J 

Yam 

Ishi 

Cassada 

Okposhi 

Ground nut 

Obonu 

Pepper 

Akpoko 


Mitshi. 


Wure 


Ijogo 


APPENDIX II. 


219 


English. Doma. 


Onion 

Maize 

Beans 

Farm 

Forest 

Horse 

Mare 

Cow 

Bull 

Milk (fresh and) 

Alibosa 

Ibakpa 

Eze 

Eho 

Okpa 

'Oyan 

Oyan-leyan 

Enna 

Enna-neyinro 

Ame 

sour) J 

Butter (fresh ) 
and melted) J 

Anangoyi 

Sheep, ewe 

Adogbo 

Bam 

Rago, tukpo 

Goat 

Ikpowu 

Buck 


Cat 

Bantshakh 

Eat 

Igu 

Pig 

Orushu 

Bat 

Ariga 

Pigeon 

Mandegu 

Parrot 

Ok6 

Fowl (hen) 

Ogu, ugu 

Cock 

Obugu 

Egg 

Ayi-ogu 

Bird 

Igbano 

Fish 

Ebe 

Serpent 

Eguwa 

Scorpion 

Enna 


Mitshi. 


f Lumu, or 
tNumu Yimgo 
Keme kusa 


220 

APPENDIX II. 

English. 

Eoma. 

Musquita 

Butterfly 

Spider 

Wasp 

Emia 

Bee 

Eho-ayikehp 

Honey 

Eho 

Lion 

'Idu 

Leopard 

Eje 

Elephant 

Adagha 

Ivory 

Ahunnu 

Alligator 

Ikil 

Monkey 

'Eka 

Chameleon 

Oyanyan 

Lizard (common) Apuwa 

Lizard (large 
red-headed) j 
Toad 

¦ Oyinkpaku 

Frog 

Dog 

Great, large 
Little, small 
White 

Black 

White man 
Black man | 
(negro) J 

Good 

Bad 

Old (of things I 

Akirifh 

Iwo 

Yanko, yanku 
Leke 

Onehe 

Nobi ‘ 

Oyinehe, oyibo 

( se-nohi 

Oshi, ososhi 
Olabi 

- Osenke 

and persons) J 


Mitshi. 


Slile, ivory ring 


APPENDIX II. 


221 


English. 

Doma. Mitshi. 

New (Young) 

Opepe 

Sick 

Agbere 

WeU 

Eshi 

Hot 

Akola 

Cold 

Soshia 

Wet 

Ngeyin 

Dry 

Oyinmowe 

Greedy 


Stupid 


Rich 


Poor 


Straight 

Oneta 

Crooked (bent) 

Ntokoka 

I go 

Agahun 

I come 

Mu 0 we 

I run 

Na yin ykn 

I stop 

Yinyan, ngan ikoyaje 

I sit down 

Nga iyaje 

I lie down 

Ngbota ngbore 

I breathe 

Na shown 

I cough 

Na koko 

I sneeze 

Na tashushu 

I snore 

Na ahola 

I laugh 

Na ay eye 

I weep 

Ami shiku 

I kneel 

Nga kwaje 

I dream 

Nenna 

I sleep 

Agbola 

I die 

Oge ku 

I fall 

Ngo nu 

I rise 

Ni so 


L 3 


222 


APPENDIX 11. 


English. 

I speak 

I hear 

I heg 

JDoraa. Mitshi. 

Ma ke la 

Mpd 

Giam 

I bathe or wash ] 
myself J 

1 Nguye 

I see 

I take 

I buy 

I sen 

I love thee 

I give thee 

I eat yam 

I drink water 

I cook meat 

I kill a fowl 

I cut a tree 

I flog a child 

I catch a fish 

I break a stick 

I call a slave 

I cover a pot 

Mm^ 

Na ibise 

Nga rosa, ni ma ni 

Ni ira 

Na doka ho 

Ni zo ho 

Na ri ishi 

Na goyin 

Ebe isola 

Na mo ogu 

Nga she kposhi 

Na go ize 

Nga ngbebe 

Lefi ki ngbo 

Na yi ogu ofie 

Na le yi isola 

I sew a shirt or | 
cloth j 

Na goza ; Na ga kiri 

I pray to God 1 

Na bu Oso 

(beg God) ) 
I play 

I do not play | 

I dance 

I do not dance 
Yesterday 

Nga shiga 

Nshiga nu, Ono 
ga-shiga 

Nga gige 

Ngige nu 

Enne 


APPENDIX IL 


223 


English, Boma. Mitshi. 


To-day 

To-morrow 

Cowry 

Bowl 

Lead 

Brass 

Stars 

Bead 

Shea-bntter 

Iron lioe, metal ) 

Nkeni 

Oki 

Ekuri 

Okpara 

Aderema 

Oje 

Eyinyin-Owo 

Eke 

Anaza 

Akika 

Ibia 

currency ( 

Bed 

Beretete 

Dodo (red cloth) 

Bowl of a pipe 

Tukunia 

Pipe 

Turi 

Etshu 

Brass ring 

Flint 

Miki 

Pueni 

Paddle 


Nnaha 

Post 

Canoe men 

Osene powu 

Ikono 

Farmer 

Adakeho, Ngbeho 

Fishermen 

N ebe or Lebekue 


Trade 

Ola ‘ 


Trader 

Olola 


Judge 

Ose she ba apotta 


Poison for arrow 

Efa 


Antidote topoi - ) 
soned arrow j 

Atekpa 


Hunter 

Ose ne toite 


My father 

Adam 



224 


APPENDIX II. 


English. 

My mother 
My grandfather 
My grandmother 
My stranger 
My wife 
Black shoe 
Good morning 

I hope you rise well ? 

Do you hear ? 

I hear 
Leave it 

A woman spins cotton 

Cock crows 
Egg breaks 
Bird flies 
Fish swims 
Snake bites 
Honey is sweet 
Bee stings 
Lion roars 
Ivory is heavy 
Monkey skips 
Dog barks 
Sheep bleats 
Goat runs 
Pig squeaks 
Rat burrows 


Doma. 

Oyam 

Onkuom 

Amoyam 

Ozoga 

Otshim 

Okpa lobi, Takalmi nobi 
Oga 

Gbeshi nT, or Gbe shi 
gege ni ? 

Opo ni ? 

Mpo we 
Shahata 

Oya jowu, or Gboyin ole 
jowu 
Ogu tonu 
Ayigu guitshia 
Igbano yinso 
Ebe tige iyowon 
Ego (Eguwa) fphunnu 
Eho loyan 
Eho isum 
'Idu shiku 
Ahin gaba gbenu 
'Eka shobi 
Ewo (I wo) wonu 
Adogbo degbk 
Ipowu Oyinyon 
Orushu degbama 
lyu yo le 


APPENDIX II. 


225 


English, 
Alligator bites 

I buy an ivory 
A large cloth 
A small cloth 
White paper 
Old house 
New house 
Hot water 
Cold water 
Small cloth is wet 
Large cloth is wet 
Small cloth is dry 
A straight stick 
A crooked stick 
This slave 
You call me 
I call a boy 
A boy calls me 
A red cap 

A very high tree 

I fall badly 
Very much 
The tree is very large 
The glass is very daz- 
zling 

This paper is very white 
This gun is very black 
Tire bird flies very high 


Boma. 

Iku fosahunnu, or fa- 
hunnu 

Nahin gaba ni la 
Ekpa yanko 
Ekpa leke 
Takarda onehe 
Oda osoneke 
Ole pepe 
lyonla, akola 
Eyin shoshia 
Akiri ngeyin 
Okpa ngeyin 
Akiri 03rimowe 
Kposhi oneta 
Kposhi ntokoka 
Ofle ni 
Ami yo gura 
Oyi keke 
Oya ku yo igu 
Tingira nowa (yoyo) 

( Kposhi nyanka goga, 

( Kposhi owiripo goga 
Ngonu gburo 
Agoga, agngagoga 
Kposhi o jaku goga 
Ozomibe o mbe wkya- 
waya 

Takarda osehe gbogbo 
Bindiga o lobi wiri 
Igbana o gizo gbogbo 


226 


APPENDIX II. 


English. 

The water is very full 
The wind blows very 
strong to-day 

The night is very dark 

I eat in a howl 
I cut with a knife 
I drink water 
I am thirsty 
I myself 
Thou myself 
He himself 
We ourselves 
You yourselves 
They themselves 
Who? 

Whose ? 

Which ? 

What ? 

This ? 

That? 

What are you thinking of? 


Doma. 

Eyin lopaje gua yanyan 

Ohu ta gogagoga nkeni 

Otu nkeni ehe dobugo 
gagoga 

Nlone ehe okpara 
Lokoshe ti kewa 
Ngoyin 
Egin aw om 
Amu-amu obohin 
Oyi iwo ne 
Ase ni abohinnu 
Awp bo kiwo 

Alo bo kigalo 
Ono koni ? 

Ono ko gbo da ni ? 

Ono ko anu ? 

Wu ka la ni ? 

One? 

01am ne? 

Ozhi ni oyi ne ne ? 


APPENDIX II. 


227 


7 . PERSONAL PRONOUNS. 


English. 

Doma. 

Singular. 

1. I 

1. Ami, Na,Ni,Nga, 
tracted into M. N. 

2 . Thou 

2. A wo, 0 

3. He, she, it 

3. Anu 

Plural. 

1. We 

1 . Awa 

2 . You 

2. Ani 

3. They 

3. Alo 

Singular. 

1 . I eat 

1 . Ami ale 

2. Thou eatest 

2 . Aw 9 ale 

3. Pie eats 

3. Anu ale 

Plural. 

1. We eat 

1. Awa ale 

2 . You eat 

2. Ani ale 

3. They eat 

3. AI 9 ale 

We three sit down 

Awa setta awa ayaje 

You three sit down 

Ani setta ani ayaje 

They three set down 

AI 9 setta al 9 ayaje 


8. COMPARISONS OF ORU AND BRASS, 
OR ITEBU. 

English. Orn. Brass or Itehu. 


Water 

Megi 

Migi 

Fire 

Feni 

Fendi 

Firewood 

Fendia 

Fingia 

Mat 

Ute 

Ute 

God 

Orisha 

Orisha 


228 


APPENDIX II. 


9. NOJSIENCLATURE OR TERMINOLOGY. 


Eyo or Yoruba is called Aku in Sierra Leone from salutation. 




Ayaji 

by the 

Nupe 



Yariba 

>7 


Haussa 

}} 

}} 

Anagonu or Inago „ 

Popo 

V 

jj n 

Ayonu 

by the 

Dahomey 

Nupe 

is called 

Tapa or ' 

Takp 

la by the Yoruba 

Popo 

jj 

Egun 

by the 


Dahomey 


Dada 

» 


» 

Igbira and neighbouring ] 

1 Kotokori 




countnes 

IS called ] 



» 

V 

Koto 



Haussa 

Kakanda 

V 

Bunu 



77 


n 

Shabe 



Igarras 

Pulo 

u 

Eilani or 

Fulani „ 

[ Haussa & 

( Yoruba 



Felata 

by the 

Bomu 


>5 

Angoyi 



Igbira 

Doma, call themselves 

AlTgO 



Djuku or Baibai of 
Kororofa is called ; 

1 Apa or Akpa 

by the 

Igarra 

Djuku & Mitshi are called Akpa or 

Apa 


Ibo 

Zhibu or Eilani, slaves \ 

1 Katshara 




there are called J 


77 

Djuku 

Gandiko 


Gannako 


7? 

j> 

Muri or Hamaruwa „ 

Kundi 


77 

}) 

Oru 


Ijo or Ojo 


Brass 

Abo or Aboh „ 

Oru 


77 

Bonny 

Bonny, properly Obani „ 

Okoloba 


?? 

Ibo 

Brass, properly Nempe „ 

Itebu 


JJ 

» 

Calabar, properly Efik „ 

Kalaban 


77 

V 


APPENDIX II. 229 

Shekiri are called Iwini by the Ibo. 

Ado „ Ido or Idu „ „ 

Abo, Ibo or Igbo „ Opu „ Igarra and all the 

countries up the river. 
Ilaussa is called Abakpa by the Igbira, Doma, Kororofa, 
and other countries up the river. 



10. The Time of the Day. 


English. 

Ilaussa. 

Pulo. 

Yoruba. 

Cock-crowing 

Asuba 1 

Fajiri 

1 Afemojumo 

Morning 

Dasafe ) 

I Khtukutu 

About 8. A.M. 

Anthin 

Luba, W oluha 

Owuro 

„ 12. A.M. 

Eana sakka 

Najetshaka 

Ossangangan 

„ 2. P M. 

Azahar 

Zura 

Ayila 

„ 4. P.M. 

La Aser 

Alazara 

A sale 

Sunset 

Almuru 

Magarib^ 

Orunwc 

About 8. P. M. 

Lisha 

Eshai 

A lie 


M 


APPENDIX III. 


1. Route to Yola from Hamaruwa- 
Hamaruwa 6. Gangume 1 2. Dardio 

1. Zhiru 7. Zongo ndoka 13. Hamedu, La- 

2. Erlma 8. Kogi mbaba wal’s brother 

3. Zongo nkawo 9. Zhan garigari 14. Yola 

4. Akam 10. Kwantsha 

5. Zongo nkangi 11. Laro 

'Fhe first five stages belong to Hamaruwa territory. 

The remaining nine belong to Adamawa. This route of 
14 days’ joiu’ney is made round the Fumbina mountains 
by traders from Bantshi, Kano, and Katshina from the 
Haussa country, who trade in slaves and ivory, the road 
being safe under the government of the Filanis. 


2. Route to Yola hy the course of the Binue. 
Hamaruwa 4. Tahiri subject to Lawal. 

1. Wurobeli 5. Wuro Alahaji, only a short distance 

2. Gowoi to Yola 

3. Zena. The Zenas are independent, and hostile to the 

Filanis : travellers who venture by this route 
must pass Zena in the night to avoid the attack 
of the pagans by day. Wurobeli and Gowoi are 
subject to Hamaruwa. 


From Gandiko to Yola 15 days' journey 
„ „ „ Wukari about 7 hours 

„ Zhibu ,5 w » 1 clay’s journey, Zar mar- 

ket is in midway. 

„ Anyishi „ „ „ 3 days’ journey 

halting places, Akuana, Arufu, Afiayi. 
„ Anyishi to Keana in Doma 1| day, halting-place 

Magede. 


APPENDIX III. 


231 


From Kwata on the left of the Binue to Wukari 2 days. 

„ Zhibu to Gomkoi on the left of the Binue, 5 days. 

„ „ Nyindo „ „ 5 days. 

The Filanis were about to attack this place this dry 
season, one of them applied to me for a charm to enable 
him to catch slaves at Nyindo. 

The following jdaces were given, as being between Zhibu 
and the Confluence of the Binue and Faro or Paro, Zhibu, 
Belal, Djandurode, Kafe (chief Erima), Hama or Hama- 
ruwa, Batshama, Bula, Dampsa, Garin, Tambul, Kenmi, 
Adamawa, Bunda at the Confluence of Binue and Paro or 
Faro. 


3. Route to Doma by Ojogo on the right of the Binue. 

Ojogo, Tunga, (a small village), Keana (large town), 
Knnduku, and Kalashi, (both small), Giza (large), Kireyi 
(small), Kodoroko (large), Kowai-a (small), Doma (large). 


4. Route from Rahha or Lade to Ahheohiita. 

Rabba, Gulufu, Saraji, Budo Alla Sariki. ) j 

Lade, Lafiaji, Sambufu, Budo Alla Sariki. j ’ 

Ilori, Aimayo, Ojoku, Inisa, 'Ikiron, Osogbo, Edde of Timi, 
Iwo-Isalle, Ijehanna, 'Ibadan Ilugun, Oke Zoko, Abbeo- 
kuta. 

Though Mahamma, the Yoruba traveller who is at present 
residing at the Confluence of the Kowara and Tshadda, in 
pursuit of his charm making trade, has made eighteen easy 
days’ journey of this route, he said it could be accomplished 
in twelve days’ hard push, if no hinderance took place on 
the way. 


232 


APPENDIX III. 


5. Names of the Kowara and Tshadda. 


The Kowara is called Fan nrua (the white water) in general. 




Oya by the Yoruba. 

The Tshadda 


Baiki nruwa (the black water) in ge- 
neral. 

?? 

?? 

Nihu or Lihu by the Igbira. 


?? 

Nu „ Djuku. 



Binue „ Djuku and Filani. 

The Niger 

>> 

Osimirin by the Abo and the people 
of the Delta. 


6. States governed by the Filunis, according to Ibrahim, 
our guide at Hamaruwa. 


States. 

1. Bagarmi 

2. Adamawa 

3. Hamarawa 

4. Gombe 

5. Bomu 

6. Shira 

7. Katagu 

8. Manna 

9. Hadeji 

10. Awoyo 

11. Kano 

12. Kasawurai 

13. Dawura 

14. Katshina 

15. Zanfara 


Nar/les of Governor. 
Sariki Bagarmi. 

Lawal (Loel of Dr. B.) 
Mohainina. 

Koiranga. 

Sumanu. 

Abduramani. 

Dankaowa. 

Mahamma. 

Bohari. 

Sambo. 

Sumanu. 

Dembo. 

Zuheiru. 

Mohamma Bello. 
Mamudu. 


APPENDIX III. 


283 


16. Gobiri 

17. Bautslii 


Ali. 

IlDrabima. 

Sid'i. 

Badja. 

Dasaba. 
Abdusalami. 
Sariki n Yawuri. 
Sariki n Kabi. 


18. Zozo (Zegzeg) 

19. DawudCi 

20. Nufe, or Niipe 


21. Ilorin 

22. Yawim 

23. Kabi. 


Sokoto, the seat of government, and Aliliu Sariki n 
ISIusulmin, or the sovereign of the faithful. Of these states, 
some are very extensive, and otliers small. Among the ex- 
tensive states may be classed Adamawa, as far, according 
to Ibrahima, as to Igarra, and he believes that the Atta 



Samuel Crowther. 


APPENDIX III. 


asi 


NOTE BY DR. WILLIAM BLEEK. 

{To page 205 ) 

It is a mistake of Mr. Samuel Crowthei’’s that his 
^litshi Vocabulary gives us a totally unknown lan- 
guage. At the first look upon Kobe’s Polyglotta 
Africana, I saw that here the Tiwi (XII. E. 19) 
shows only very slight dialectical differences. And 
in Kobe’s Introductory Remarks, he says : — Tiwi, 
called Midsi, or Mbidsi, by the Kiirorofas and Haus- 
sas, and Gbalon by the Agayas, who speak the same 
language as the Tiwis. Herewith agrees Crowther’s 
notice that the Djuku and Mitshi are called Akpa 
or Apa by the Ibu. Likewise indeed the 1-juku, or 
Barbai of Kororofa, are called Apa or Akpa by the 
Igbarra. Kobe’s work is indeed an immense store 
of African knowledge, and its use would be still 
greater, if good incbces were added of all the names 
of Languages, Nations, Countries, and places to be 
met with in his Introductory Remarks. 

Still Mr. Crowther’s Vocabularies ai’e most im- 
portant enlargements; as Vocabularies, &c., made on 
the spot, are always preferable to such as are- taken 
from individuals in places distant from their homes. 


Sr. C. Soti'B, IPtintrr, Slline ©fflce-couvt, jntEt-slrttt. 