About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/offtowilds00fenngoog/page/n8/mode/2up

--------------------------------------

OFF TO THE WILDS: 

BEING

THE ADVENTURES OF TWO BROTHERS. 



By GEO. MANVILLE FENN. 


London:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON, 

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET. 

1881.

[All rights reserved.] 



H5' 



LONDON : 
GIIURRT AND RIVINGTON, LIMITED, 

bT. John's jwjuarb. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAP. PAGB 

I. COFFEE AND CHICORY, BUT NOT FOR BREAKFAST I 
11. WHY THEY WENT AWAY II 

III. PREPARATIONS FOR THE JOURNEY. . . . l8 

IV. INSPANNING FOR THE TRIP 23 

V. A TASTE OF SOMETHING TO COME . . . .26 

VI. A FALSE ALARM 32 

VIL HOW THE BOYS FOUND IT WAS NOT EASY TO 

SHOOT 39 

VIII. HOW NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAINING . 46 

IX. AN AWFUL FORD TO CROSS 54 

X. A GLORIOUS SIGHT FOR A HUNTER . . .63 

XI. GETTING INTO WORK JO 

XIL A BUFFALO RUN 76 

XIII. " OOMPH ! OOMPH ! OOMPH ! '' 85 

XIV. TRACKED BY AN ENEMY 92 

XV. GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS . . . .ICO 

XVI. HOW THE LITTLE GINTLEMEN INTERFERED WID 

DINNY 113 

XVII. JACK ROGERS GOES TO SLEEP I20 

XVIII. THE CAPTURE OF A CAT 1 25 

XIX. FIRST SIGHT OF OSTRICH 1 33 

XX. DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS I40 

XXI. A LESSON IN OSTRICH HUNTING . . . .148 

XXIL LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP : *WARE SNAKtS . . 153 



vi CONTENTS. 



CHAP. PACE 

XXIII. AN INTERFERENCE WITH WASHING, AND THE 

RESULT l66 



XXIV. JACK ROGERS AND THE RUNAWAY HERDS 
XXV. NEARLY A WAGGON-WRECK 



XXVI. HOW DINNY HEARD A LION WID A BAD COWLD 1 86 



XXVII. MARKED DOWN BY VULTURES . 
XXVIII, THE VISIT TO THE BLACK KING 
XXIX. THE GENERAL IS OVERCOME BY GIN— A TRAP 
XXX. THE king's HUNTING-PARTY 
XXXI. A ROW UP STREAM, AND A RUN DOWN . 
XXXH. WARM WORK IN THE WILDS 

XXXIII. THE TABLES TURNED 

XXXIV. HOW THE WAGGON WAS PUT STRAIGHT . 
XXXV. HOW DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN 

XXXVI. DINNY RELATES HIS ADVENTURE 
XXXVII. DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FISH-HOOKS. 
XXXVIII. FATHER SHOOTS A GIRAFFE 
XXXIX. HOW DICK CAPTURED FOUR YARDS OF ANIMAL 
XL. ONWARD TO WONDERLAND 
XLI. ONWARD FROM WONDERLAND . 
XLII. A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEMIES 
XLin. DINNY IN **THR0UBLE'' AGAIN. 

XLIV. ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT 

XLV. A FLIGHT FROM A FLY .... 
XLVI. THE BAY RUNS HIS LAST RACE . 
XLVII. HOW DINNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND . 
XLVIII. THE LAST ADVENTURE « • . . 



179 



193 
198 

202 

208 

215 

219 

228 

234 
240 

249 

263 
267 

275 
282 

288 

296 

300 

308 

312 

318 
326 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Frontispiece. ^^®" 

Civilization 3 

Throwing the Kiri 19 

Ready to start 23 

Something to bark at 27 

An Unexpected Lynx 28 

Outspanned 44 

The Game Country 6$ 

Bringing in Jack's Gnu 73 

Good Work for the Cobs 82 

An Awkward Position 93 

The First Lion 98 

Fascination 109 

A Critical Moment 123 

The Dog's Enemy 128 

Three Shadowy Giants 135 

Surprised on Both Sides 136 

More Legs than Brains 149 

Landing a Fish 154 

Waiting for Help 164 

Pater's Garment 169 

Between two Stools 178 

On the Brink 181 

The Zebra Hunt.— First Spear 185 

Without Rod or Line 189 

His Majesty and his Baud 200 

A Night in a Trap 11^ 



Vlll 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PAQft 

A Hippo Hunt 212 

A Tip-up in the Rapids 217 

The Hunters hunted 225 

An Emigrant Band 232 

A Heavy Charger 236 

Bicomis has an Interview with Diniy 247 

Seen at Sunset . . 257 

A Shot at a Gallop 264 

An Awkward Customer . . . . 272 

The Waters of Wonderland 2/9 

Dick's Dream- Water 282 

The Water-Bok's Flight 286 

An Outside Passenger 291 

Legs versuis Wings 294 

Dick's lucky Shot 302 

Never leave Mud in your Barrel . 305 

A Race for dear Life 314 

Through the Great Rift 319 

Between Two Fires ; 328 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER I. 



COFFEE AND CHICORY, BUT NOT FOR BREAKFAST. 



^ 



" Just look at him, Dick. Be quiet ; don't speak.** 

•* Oh, the dirty sunburnt little varmint I I'd like the job o' 
washing him." 

" If you say another word, Dinny, I'll give you a crack with 
your own stick." 

"An' is it meself would belave you'd hurt your own man 
Dinny wid a shtick, Masther Jack ? Why ye wouldn't knock a 
fly off me." 

" Then be quiet. I want to see what he's going to do." 

" Shure an' it's one of the masther's owld boots I threw away 
wid me own hands this morning, because it hadn't a bit more 
wear in it. An' look at the dirty unclane monkey now." 

" He'll hear you directly, Dinny, and I want to see what he's 
going to do. Hold your tongue." 

** Shure an' ye ask me so politely, Masther Jack, that it's 
obliged to be silent I am." 

" Pa was quite right when he said you had got too long a 
tongue.'* 

** Who said so, Masther Jack?" 

" Pa— papa 1 " 

D 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



•• Shure the masther said — and it's mcself heard him — that 
you was to lave your papa at home in owld England, and that 
when ye came into these savage parts of the wide world, it was 
to be father." 

" Well, father, then. Now hold your tongue. Just look at 
him, Dick.** 

" It's meself won't spake again for an hour, and not then if 
they don't ax me to," said Dennis Riley, generally known as 
" Dinny," and nothing more. And he, too, joined in watching 
the ** unclane little savage,** as he called him, to wit, a handsome, 
well-grown Zulu lad, whose skin was of a rich brown, and who, 
like his companion, seemed to be a model of savage health and 
grace. 

For there were two of these lads, exceedingly lightly clad, in 
a necklace, and a strip of skin round the loins, one of whom was 
lying on his chest with his chin resting upon his hands, kicking 
up his feet, and clapping them together as he watched the other, 
who was evidently in a high state of delight over an old boot. 

This boot he had found thrown out in the fenced-in yard at 
the back of the cottage, and he was now seated upon a bank 
trying it on. 

First, he drew it on with a most serious aspect, held out his 
leg and gave it a shake, when, finding the boot too loose, he 
took it off and filled the toe with sand ; but as the sand ran out 
of a gap between the upper leather and the sole close to the toe 
and as fast as he put it in, he had to look out for something else, 
which he found in the shape of some coarse dry grass. With 
this he half filled the boot, and then, with a good deal of dif- 
ficulty, managed to wriggle in his toes, after which he drew the 
boot above his ankle, rose up with a smile of gratified pride 
upon his countenance, and began to strut up and down before 
his companion. 

There was something very laughable in the scene, for it did 
not seem to occur to the Zulu boy that he required anything 
else to add to his costume. He had on one English boot, the 



COFFEE AND CHICORY. 3 

same as the while men wore, and that seemed to him sufficient, 
as he stuck his arms akimbo, then folded them as he walked 
with head erect, and ended by standing on one leg and holding 
out the booted foot before his admiring companion. 
This was too much for the other boy, whose eyes glittered as 




he made a snatch at the boot, dragged it off, and was about to 
leap up and run away ; but his victim was too quick, for, lithe 
and active as a serpent, he dashed upon the would-be robber, 
and a fierce struggle ensued for the possession of the boot. 

John Rogers, otherwise Jack, a frank English lad of about 
¦ixteen, spnmg forward to separate the combatants, but Dinny, 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



his father's servant, who had been groom and gardener at home, 
restrained him. 

" No, no, Masther Jack," he cried, ** let the young hay thens 
fight it out. It'll make them behave betther by-an'-hy." 

" I won't ; I don't like to see them fight," cried Jack, slipping 
himself free, and seemingly joining in the fray. 

" Don't, Masther Jack," cried Dinny ; " they'll come off black 
on your hands. Masther Dick, sir, tell him to lave them alone." 

The lad appealed to, a pale delicate-looking youth, clenched 
his fists and sprang forward to help his brother. But he stopped 
directly and began to laugh, as, after a short scuffle. Jack 
Rogers separated the combatants, and stood between them with 
the boot in dispute. 

For a moment it seemed as if the two Zulu lads were about 
to make a combined attack, but there was something about the 
Enghsh lad which restrained them, and they stood chattering 
away in their native tongue, protesting against his interference, 
and each laying claim to the boot. 

'* Speak English,* cried Jack. ** And now you two have got 
to shake hands like Englishmen, and make friends." 

** Want a boot ! want a boot ! want a boot ! " the Zulu lads 
kept repeating. 

" Well, you do as I tell you, and you shall each have a pair of 
boots." 

"Two boot? Two boot?" cried the boy who had lost his 
treasure. 

** Yes ; two boots," said Jack. " You've got an old pair, 
haven't you, Dick ?" 

" Yes ; they can have my old ones,*' was the reply. " Go and 
get them, Dinny." 

•* And my old lace-ups too," said Jack. 

** Ugh ! " ejaculated Dinny, spitting on the ground in token 
of disgust. " Ye'll both repint being such friends with cannibal 
lavages like them, young gentlemen. They'll turn round on ye 
¦ some day, and rend and ate ye both.'* 



COFFEE AND CHICORY, 5 

"Not they, Dinny," laughed Jack. ** They'd prefer Irish- 
men, so we should be safe if you were there." 

"Ah, ye may laugh," said Dinny, ''but they're a dangerous 
lot them savages, and I wouldn't trust 'em the length of my 
fut." 

Dinny went towards the back door of Mr. Rogers' roomy, 
verandah-surrounded cottage farm, high up in the slopes of the 
Drakensberg, and looking a perfect bower with its flowers, 
creepers, and fruit-trees, many being old English friends ; and 
Jack proceeded to make peace between the two Zulu boys. 

" Now look here, Sepopo, you've got to shake hands with 
your brother," he cried. 

** No ! " cried the Zulu boy who had been lying down when 
he snatched the boot, and he threw himself in a monkey- 
like attitude on all fours. 

" Now you, Bechele, you've got to make friends and shake 
hands," continued Jack, paying no heed to Sepopo's defiant 
attitude. 

" No ! " cried the last-addressed, emphatically. " *Tole a boot ! 
'tole a boot ! " And he too plumped himself down upon all fours 
and stared at the ground. 

** I say yes ! " cried Jack ; when, as if moved by the same 
influence, the two Zulu boys leaped up, ran a few yards, and 
picked up each his " kiri," a short stick with a knob at the end 
nearly as bi^ as the fist, ran back to where the English lads 
were standing, and with flashing eyes began to beat the sand 
with their clubs. 

" Come along, Dick ! " cried Jack. " They shan't fight. You 
take Sepopo, I'll take Bechele. No ; don't ! It will make 
you hot, and you're not strong. Ill give it them both." 

Jack, who was very strong and active for his age, made a 
dash at the young Zulus just as they began threatening each 
other and evidently meaning to fight, when for a few moments 
there was a confused struggle, in which Jack would not have 
been successful but for his brother's help, he having overrated 



OFF TO THE WILDS, 



his strength. But Dick joined in, and in spite of their anger 
the Zulu boys did not attempt to strike at their young masters, 
the result being that they allowed their kiris to be wrenched 
from their hands, and the next minute were seated opposite to 
each other on the ground. 

** They're a» strong as horses, Dick," panted Jack. " There ! 
Now, you sirs, shake hands ! " 

" No ! " shouted one; 

** No f shouted the other; and with a make believe of 
fierceness, Jack gave each what he called a topper on the head 
with one of the kiris he held. 

"Now will you make friends?" cried Jack ; and again they 
shouted, ** No ! " 

" They won't. Let them go,' said Dick, languidly ; " and 
it makes one so hot and tired." 

** They shan't go till they've made friends," said Jack, setting 
his teeth ; and thrusting his hand into his pocket he brought 
out a piece of thick string, the Zulu boys watching him 
intently. 

They remained where Jack had placed them, and going 
down on one knee he seized the right hand of each, placed 
them together, and proceeded to tie them — pretty tightly 
too. 

" There 1 ** cried Jack. ''Now you stop till you're good 
friends once more.*' 

" Good boy now,** cried one on the instant. 

** Good boy now," cried the other. 

" Then shake hands properly," said Jack. 

** Give him the boot," cried Sepopo, as soon as his hand 
was untied, and he had gone through the required ceremony 
with his brother. 

" No, no ; give him the boot," cried the other. 

•* Hold your tongues," cned Jack. " I say, Dick, let's call 
them something else if they are going to stop with us. 
Sepopo 1 Bechele ! What names ! " 



COFFEE AND CHICOR V. 



"Well," said Dick, languidly, as he sat down in a weary 
fashion; ** one's going to be your boy, and the other mine. 
Let's call them * Black Jack ' and ' Black Dick/ *' 

** But they are brown,** said his brother. 

"Yes, they are brown certainly," said Dick, thoughtfully. 
" Regular coffee colour. You might call one of them ' Coffee,* ** 

" That'll do,*' said Jack, laughing, " * Coffee ! ' and shorten it 
into ' Cough.' I say, Dick, 1*11 have that name, and I can tell 
people I've got a bad 'Cough.' But what will you call the 
other?** 

" I don't know. Stop a moment — ' Chicory.* " 

" And shorten it into * Chick.* That will do, Dick ; splendid ! 
Cough and Chick. Now you two, one of you is to be Cough 
and the other Chick ; do you hear ? ** 

The Zulu boys nodded and laughed, though, in spite of the 
pretty good knowledge of the English language which they 
had picked up from their intercourse with the British settlers, 
it is doubtful whether they understood the drift. What they 
did comprehend, however, was, that they should make friends ; 
and this being settled, there was the old boot. 

** Give me boot, and show you big snake," cried Chicory. 

" No, no, give me ; show more big snake," cried Coffee. 

Just then Dinny came up with two old pairs of the lads' boots, 
which he threw down upon the sandy earth ; and reading con- 
sent in their young masters' eyes, the Zulu lads pounced upon 
them with cries of triumph, Coffee obtaining the two rights, and 
Chicory the two lefts, with which they danced about, flourishing 
them over their heads with delight. 

'* Come here, stupids ! '' cried Jack ; and after a little conten- 
tion, the boys being exceedingly unwilling to part as they 
thought with their prizes, he managed to make them under- 
stand that the boots ought to go in pairs ; and the exchange 
having been made, each boy holding on to a boot with one 
hand till he got a good grip of the other, they proceeded to put 
them on. 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



* U^h ! the havthcn basics,* said DinnT, vith a look of dis* 
gust. ^ Think of the likes o' them vearing the joimg mastheiV 
brogues. Ah, Masther Dkk, dear. yeH be rcpinling it one of 
these davs.'' 

^ Dinny, yoo^re a regular prophet of eril,'' said Dick^ quietly. 

** AtU — prophet of aril ! ' cried Dinny. * Wdl, isn't it the 
truth ? Didn't I say avore isre left the ovld counthry that no good 
would come of it ? And arore we*d been oat here tvo years didn't 
the dear misthrcss — the saints make her bed in heaTcn — go and 
die right away ? ' 

** Dinny ! how can you ! ^ cried Jack, angrily, as he saw the 
tears start into his brothers eyes, and that in spite of the son- 
burning he turned haggard and pale. 

** Don't take any notice, Dick,** he whispered, in a tender, 
loving way, as he laid one arm on his brother's shoulder and 
drew him aside. ^ Dinny don't mean any harm, Dick, hot he 
has such a long tongue." 

Dick looked piteously in his brother's face, and one tear stole 
softly down his cheek. 

" I say, Dick,'** cried Jack, imploringly, " don't look like that. 
It makes me think so of poor mamma. You look so like her. 
I say don't, or youll make me cr\' too ; and I won't," he cried, 
grinding his teeth. " 1 said I'd never cr>- again, because it's so 
childish ; and 1 won't." 

" Then Tm childish, Jack," said Dick, as he nibbed the tear 
away with one hand. 

"Xo, no. You have been so weak and delicate that you 
can't help it- Tm strong. But I say, Dick, you are ever so 
much stronger than when we came out here." 

^'Yes," said Dick, with a wistful look at his brother's 
muscular arms. " 1 am stronger, buX I do get tired so soon. 

Jack." 

" Not so soon as you did, Dick ; and father says you'll be a 
strong man yet. Hallo ! what's the matter ? Look there." 

The brothers turned round, and hardly knew whether to 



I mmmi^m^i^^^^^mm^^umtma^saui^^^ 



COFFEE AND CHICORY, 



laugh or to be alarmed ; for a short distance away there was Dinny 
dancing about, waving his arms and shouting, while Coffee and 
Chicory, each with his kiri, were making attacks and feints, 
striking at the Irishman fiercely. 

** Ah, would you, ye black baste?" shouted Dinny, as roarinj 
now with laughter the brothers ran back. 

** Shoo, Shoo ! get out, you dirty-coloured spalpeen. Ah, >c 
didn't. Kape off wid you. An' me widout a bit of shtick in 
me fist. Masther Dick, dear ! Masthcr Jack ! it's murthering me 
the two black Whiteboys are. Kape off ! Ah, would ye again ! 
Iv I'd me shtick Td talk to ye both, and see if your heads weren't 
thick as a Tipperary bo/s, I would. Masther Dick ! Masther 
Jack ! they'll murther me avore they've done." 

As aforesaid, the two Zulu boys had picked up a great deal of 
the English language, but their understanding thereof was some- 
times very obscure. In this instance they had heard Dinny talk- 
ing to his young masters in a way that had made the tears come 
in Dick*s eye, and driven him and Jack away. This, in the esti- 
mation of the Zulu boys, must be through some act of cruelty 
or insult. They did not like Dinny, who made no attempt to 
disguise his contempt for them as " a pair of miserable young 
haythens," but at the same time they almost idolized the twin 
brothers as their superiors and masters, for whom they were 
almost ready to lay down their lives. 

Here then was a cause for war. Their nature was to love 
and fight, as dearly as the wildest Irishman who was ever born. 
Dinny had offended their two '• bosses '' — as they called them, 
after the fashion of the Dutch Boers, and this set their blood 
on fire. 

Hardly had the brothers walked away than, as if moved by 
the same spirit, they forgot the beauty of the old boots in which 
they had been parading — to such an extent that they kicked 
them off, and kiri in hand made so fierce an attack upon un- 
armed Dinny that, after a show of resistance, he fairly took to his 
heels and ran back to the house, just as the brothers came up. 



lO 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



" Popo give him kiri," cried Chicory. 

•* Bechele de boy make Boss Dinny run/* cried the other, his 
eyes sparkling with delight. "No make de boss cry eye any 
more." 

** No make Boss Dick cry eye any more," repeated 
Chicory. 

The brothers looked at each other as they comprehended the 
meaning of the attack. 

**Why, Jack," said Dick, "what faithful true fellows they 
are. They'll never leave us in a time of trouble." 

•* No, that they won't,'* cried Jack ; and just then a tall, 
stern, sunburnt man, with grizzled hair and saddened eyes, came 
up to where they stood. Laying his hand afTectionately on the 
shoulder of Dick, — 

" Come, my boys," he said, " dinner is ready. Let's be punc- 
tual while we are leading a civilized life." 

" And afterwards, father, as punctual a life as we can," said 
Dick, smiling. 

" Hurray ! " cried Jack, giving his cap a wave in the air, 
" Only another week, and then, father — " 

"Yes,'' said Mr. Rogers, with a quiet, sad look, "then, my 
boy, good-bye to civilization." 

" Only for a time, father," said Dick, quietly. 

" Till you win health and strength, my boy," said Mr. Rogersi 
with an affectionate glance. 

" And that we'll soon find," cried Jack ; " for we are off to 
the wilds." 



^ 



CHAPTER II. 

WHY THEY WENT AWAY. 

It was about two years before this that Mr. Edward Rogers, a 
gentleman holding a post of importance in the City of London^ 
had purchased some land and come out to dwell in Natal. For 
physician after physician had been consulted, seaside and 
health resort visited, but as the time glided on the verdict of 
the doctors became more and more apparent as a true saying, 
that unless Mrs. Rogers was taken to a warmer climate her 
days would be few. 

Even if she were removed the doctors said that she could not 
recover ; but still her days might be prolonged. What was 
more, they strongly advised such a course in favour of young 
Richard, who was weak and delicate to a degree. 

" Then you really consider it necessary ? " said Mr. Rogers to 
the great physician who had been called in. 

" I do indeed. As I have said, it will prolong your wife's days, 
and most probably it will turn that delicate, sickly boy into a 
strong man." 

On being asked further what country he would recommend, 
he promptly replied, — 

" South Africa." 

" Natal is the place," he continued. "There you have the 
Drakensberg, and you can choose your own elevation, so as to 
get a pure, temperate climate, free from the cold of the moun- 
tains and the heat of the plains.'' 

Mr. Rogers was a man of prompt action, for the health of 
those dear to him was his first consideration. The consequence 



12 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

was that after rapidly making his arrangements, and providing 
the necessaries for his new home, he took passage to Durban, 
arrived there in safety with his wife, two sons, and Dennis ; then 
made his way to Maritzburg ; and soon after he had purchased 
an extensive tract of land, and a pleasantly situated home, with 
garden in full perfection, the owner of which, having made 
money in the colony, wished to retire to England. 

Here for a time Mrs. Rogers had seemed better, and un- 
doubtedly her life was considerably prolonged. Gardening, 
farming, and a little hunting formed the occupations of the father 
and sons, and for a time all was happiness in the sunny far-oflf 
home. Then the much-dreaded day came, and they were left 
to mourn for a tender wife and mother, whose loss was irrepar- 
able. 

Richard, who partook greatly of his mother's nature, was, 
like his father, completely prostrated by the terrible loss ; and 
though time somewhat assuaged his grief, he seemed to have gone 
back in his health, and lost the way he had made up since he lett 
England, and he had become so weak and delicate that Mr. 
Rogers had consulted the doctor, who from time to time visited 
their far-off home. 

" Medicine is of no use, my dear sir," he said frankly. " I 
can do him no good. I suppose he sits indoors a good deal 
and mopes ? " 

" Exactly." 

" Then look here, my dear sir, give him a thorough change. 
You are not tied to your farming in any way ? " 

" Not in the least." 

" Then fit up a waggon, take your horses, and have a few 
months' campaign in the wilds yonder. You want a change as 
badly as the boy, and you will both come back, PU venture to 
say, doubled in strength. Why, the Ivor)- and skins you'll col- 
lect will pay your expenses. I wish I had the chance to go.'* 

It was settled then, and the waggon was being fitted up with 
ammunition and stores ; horses, guaranteed to be well salted. 



Wl/y THE y WENT AWAY, 13 

had been purchased for Mr. Rogers and his boys. ITie two 
young Zulus who had been hanging about the place for months, 
making little trips with Dick and Jack, were to go ; and in addi- 
tion a couple of trustworthy blacks, experienced as waggon - 
driver and foreloper, had been engaged ; so that in a very few 
days they would say good-bye to civilization for months, and 
go seek for health in the far-off wilds. 

The boys were delighted, for Mr. Rogers proposed that they 
should aim for the Zambesi River, and seek some of the seldom- 
traversed lands, where game abounded, and where the wonders 
of nature would be opened to them as from an unsealed 
book. 

If Dick and Jack were delighted, the two Zulu boys were half 
mad with joy. As soon as they knew that they were to be of 
the party they seemed to have become frantic, going through 
the actions of hunting and spearing wild beasts — knocking down 
birds with their kiris, which they threw with unerring aim — 
pantomimically fighting lions, one of them roaring and imitating 
the fierce creature's ** oomph, oomph," in a way that sounded 
terribly real, while the other threatened him with his assegai. 

Then they were always showing their cleverness as hunters by 
stalking people — crawling up to them through the long grass, 
taking advantage of every irregularity of the ground or shrub 
to get nearer, and grinning with delight on seeing the surprise 
and fear of the person stalked. 

For it was only during the past year that they had been so 
much amongst the settlers in Natal. Their early days had been 
spent with their tribe in the north, their father being a redoubt- 
able chief; but he had given great offence to the king, and had 
been compelled to fly for his life, finding refuge amongst the 
English, with his boys. 

Mention has been made of well-salted horses, which to a 
sailor would immediately suggest commissariat beef in pickle in 
good-sized tubs ; but pray don't imagine that the satisfactory 
condiment, salt^ has anything to do with a salted horse in South 



14 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

Africa. A salted horse is one that is seasoned to the climate by 
having passed through the deadly horse sickness, a complaint 
so bad and peculiar to the land that very few of the horses seized 
with it recover. When one does recover he is called a salted— 
i. e. seasoned — horse, and his value is quadrupled. 

Mr. Rogers had spared no expense in getting together good 
cattle. His team of little Zulu oxen were the perfection of 
health and strength, and far more docile than is generally the 
case with these animals ; though even these, in spite of their 
good behaviour, were exceedingly fond of tickling each other's 
ribs with their long horns, and saving the driver trouble, for the 
pair nearest the waggon would stir up the pair in front of them, 
and as these could only retaliate on their aggressors with their 
tails, they took their revenge on the pair in front ; these again 
punished the pair in front ; and so on, and on, to the leading oxen, 
the result of the many applications being a great increase of 
speed. 

Then the horses were excellent. Mr. Rogers had three for his 
own riding ; a big bay, a dark grey, and a soft mouse-coloured 
chestnut, more famous for speed than beauty, and with a nasty 
habit of turning round and smiling, as if he meant to bite when 
he was mounted. 

Dick was clever at names, and he immediately suggested 
" Smiler " as an appropriate name for the chestnut. The dark 
grey he called " Toothpick," because of his habit of rubbing his 
teeth on the sharp points of the fence ; while he called the big 
bony bay the " Nipper," from his being so fond of grazing on, 
and taking nips from, the manes and tails of his companions, 
when he could get a chance. 

Mr. Rogers provided three horses for his own riding, but it 
was with the idea of giving either of his sons an extra mount 
when necessary, for it was certain that there would be times 
when the arch-necked swift little cobs purchased for his boys 
would want a rest. 

It was a stroke of good fortune to get such a pair, and the 



IVI/y THEY WENT AWAY, 15 

boys were in ecstasies when they were brought up from Maritz- 
burg, for a handsomer pair of little horses it would have been 
hard to find. They were both of that rich dark reddish roan, 
and wonderfully alike, the differences being in their legs ; one 
being nearly black in this important part of its person, the other 
having what most purchasers would call the blemish of four 
white legs — it being a canon amongst the wise in horseflesh that 
a dark or black-legged horse has better sinews and lasting 
powers. In this case, however, the theory was wrong, for white 
legs was if anything the stronger of the two. 

The lads then were delighted, and this became increased 
when they found the little nags quite ready to make friends, 
and willing to eat apples, bread, or as much sugar out of their 
hands as they would give. 

"That's right, my boys,** said Mr. Rogers, who found his sons 
making friends in this way with the new arrivals ; ** always feed 
your horses yourselves, and treat them well. Pet them as much 
as you like, and win their confidence by your kindness. Never 
ill-use your horse ; one act of ill-treatment and you make him 
afraid of you, and then perhaps some day, when in an emergency 
and you want to catch your horse, he may gallop away. Go on 
like that, and those cobs will follow you about like dogs. But 
you must each keep to his own horse. Which one would you 
like, Jack ? '' 

" Oh ! the—" 

Jack stopped, and glanced at his brother, whose face was 
slightly flushed. 

Dick was weak and delicate, while Jack was the perfection 
of boyish vigour ; and feeling that his brother did not enjoy life 
as he did himself, he stopped short just as he was going to say 
White Legs, for there was something in the cob's face that he 
liked, and the little horse had let him stroke its velvet nose. 

'* Poor old Dick has taken a fancy to him," he said to himself; 
*• and the other will do just as well for me.'* 

** Let Dick choose first," he said aloud. 



i6 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



" Very well," said Mr. Rogers. " Now then, Dick, which is 
it to be ? though you can't be wrong, my boy, for there is not a 
pin to choose between them, and they are brothers." 

** Should you mind if I chose first, Jack ? ** asked Dick. 

** Not a bit," said Jack, stoutly, though his feeling of disap- 
pointment was keen, for he felt now that he would dearly love 
to have the white-legged cob. 

You may guess then his delight when Dick 'declared for the 
black-legged one. 

As soon as he heard the decision Jack had his arm over the 
white-legged cob's neck and had given it a hug, the horse look- 
ing at him with its great soft eyes, and uttering a low snort. 

" Up with you then, my boys, and have a canter.'* 

" Without a saddle, father ? " said Dick, nervously. 

Jack was already up. 

" Have it saddled if you like, my boy," said Mr. Rogers, 
kindly. 

But Dick flushed, gave a spring from the ground, and was on 
the little cob's back. 

They were both skilled riders, but Dick's illness made him 
timorous at times. He, however, fought hard to master his 
weakness ; and when Jack cried, " Come on, Dick ; let's race to 
the big tree and back," he stuck his knees into the cob's plump 
sides and away they went, with the wind rushing by their ears, 
and the cobs keeping neck and neck, rounding the big tree about 
a mile away on the plain, and then making the dusty earth rise 
in clouds as they tore back, and were checked with a touch of 
the bridle by the home field. 

" Why, Dick, my boy, I would not wish to see a better seat 
on a horse," cried Mr. Rogers, patting the cobs in turn. "Jack, 
you set up your back like a jockey. Sit more upright, my boy." 

'* All right, father ; I'll try," said Jack, throwing himself right 
fon^'ard so as to hug his cob's neck. ** But I say, father, isn't 
he lovely ? I felt all the time as if I was a bit of him, or wc 
were all one." 



way THEY WENT AWAY. 



17 



*• You looked like it, my boy," said Mr. Rogers, smiling in his 
son's animated face. '* I wish Dick had your confidence, and 
you a little more of his style." 

" All right, father, well try and exchange a bit apiece," laughed 
Jack. ** But I can't half believe it, father, that these are to be 
our own horses." 

*• You may believe it, then," said his father. ** And now get 
them to the stable." 

** Oh, I say, Dick, what beauties ! " cried Jack. " What shall 
you call yours ? " 

"I don't know yet," replied his brother. "He's very fast, 
' Swift' wouldn't be a bad name ; and we might call yours * Sure.'" 

•• Hum ! I don't think much of those names. Hold up ! " he 
continued, examining the hoofs of his brother's nag. ** 1 say, 
Dick, what fine thick shoes he has got." 

"That's a good suggestion," said Dick, laughing, and looking 
brighter than he had seemed for weeks. " Let's call him * Shoes,' 
and his brother with the white legs * Stockings.' " 

" Shoes and Stockings ! " cried Jack ; " but those are such 
stupid names. I don't know though but what they'll do." 

The question was not discussed, for the lads busied them- 
selves in bedding down their own horses ; and for the rest of 
that day the stable seemed to be the most important part of the 
house. 



1 8 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



CHAPTER III. 

PREPARATIONS FOR THE JOURNEY. 

" What is it ye're doing ? " said Dinny, a day or two before that 
proposed for the start. 

Coffee and Chicory looked up from their task, grinned, and 
then went on sharpening the points of a couple of assegais upon 
a heavy block of stone, which they had evidently brought from 
a distance. Their faces glistened with perspiration ; their knees 
were covered with dust ; and they were in a wonderful state of 
excitement. Resuming their work on the instant, they tried 
to bring the weapons to a keen point. 

** Kill lion," said Coffee, laconically ; and he worked away as 
if the lion were round the corner waiting to be killed. 

•* Then ye may just as well lave off, ye dirty little naygars ; 
for it's my belafe that you're not going at all." 

Dinny went off into the house leaving the two boys apparently 
paralyzed. They dropped the assegais, stared at each other, 
and then lay down and howled in the misery of their disap- 
pointment. 

But this did not last many seconds ; for Coffee sprang up and 
kicked Chicory, who also rose to his feet, and in obedience to a 
word from his brother they took their assegais and hid them in a 
tree which formed their armoury — for out of its branches Chicory 
took the two kiris or clubs ; and then the boys ran round to the 
front, and stood making signs. 

The brothers had such a keen love of anything in the way of 
sport that, expecting something new, they ran out and willingly 
followed the two young blacks out into the grassy plain about 



PREPARA TIONS FOR THE JO URNE V. 1 9 

a mile from the house, when after posting their young masters 
behind a bush, Coffee and Chicory whispered to them to watch, 
and then began to advance cautiously through the grass, kiri in 
hand, their eyes glistening as they keenly peered from side to side. 

" What arc they going to do ? " said Dick. 

** I don't know. Show us something. I wish we had brought 
our guns. Look out ! " 

There was a whirring of wings, and the two Zulu boys struck 
attitudes that would have been models for a sculptor ; then as a 
largt bird similar to a partridge rose up, Coffee sent his knobbed 
club whizzing through the air ; another bird rose, and Chicory 
imitated his brother's act ; and the result was, tliat the cleverly 
thrown kiris hit the birds, which fell in amongst the long grass, 
from which they were retrieved by the lads with shouts of triumph 
— ^the birds proving to be the coranne, so called from the pecu- 
liarity of their cry. 

•* Well done, boys ! " cried Jack. " They'll be good eating." 

Boss Dick, Boss, Jack take Zulu boys, now ? " said the kiri- 
throwers, eagerly. 

**Why, of course. You know you are going," replied Dick. 

" Dinny say Zulu boys not going,'' cried Chicor}-. 

" Then Dinny knows nothing about it," said Dick, angrily. 
•• If he don't mind he'll be left behind himself." 

Coffee sent his kiri spinning up in the air, Chicory followed 
suit, each catching the weapon again with case ; and then they 
both dashed off across the plain as if mad, and to the astonish- 
ment of the brothers, who took the brace of birds and walked 
back towards the house, to continue the preparations for the start. 

For there was so much to do, packing the great long tilted waggon 
with necessaries, in the shape of tc<a. sugar, coffee, and chocolate. 
Barrels of mealies or Indian corn, and whcaten flour, besides. 
Salt too, had to be t<iken, and a \rge store of ammunition ; for in 
addition to boxes well filled with cartridges, they took a keg or 
two of powder and a quantity of lead. Then there were rolls 
of brass wire, and a quantity of showy beads — the latter com- 

C 2 



20 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

modities to take the place of money in exchanges with the natives 
— salt, powder, and lead answering the same purpose. 

It was a delightful task to the boys, who thoroughly enjoyed 
the packing, and eagerly asked what every package contained, 
when they had no opportunity of opening it ; while Mr. Rogers 
looked on, smiling at the interest they took. 

" Here y'are, young gentlemen,* said Dinny. "The masther 
seems to think that you're going to do nothing but suck sweet- 
stuff all the time you're out." 

" Why, what's that, Dinny?" cried Dick, who had just brought 
out a heavy box. 

" Sure, it's sugar-sh ticks and candy," said Dinny ; and he went 
off to fetch something else. 

** Why, so it is, Dick," said Jack. ** I say, father, are we to 
pack this sweetstuff in the waggon ? We don't want it." 

" Indeed, but we do," said his father, coming up. ** Why a 
handful of sweetstuff will make friends with a Boer, when every- 
thing else fails. Here, put this in the fore box. Perhaps, 
when I bring this out you'll be glad to get at the sweetstuff." 

" What is it, father? " said Dick. 

Mr. Rogers opened the little deal case and turned it out, 
to begin packing it again. 

** Here's a bottle of chloroform, and another of castor oil ; 
two bottles of chlorodyne ; a pound of Epsom salts ; four large 
boxes of pills ; a roll of sticking-plaster ; a pot of zinc ointment ; 
and a bottle of quinine and one of rhubarb and magnesia.* 

Jack's countenance was a study. For as his father carefully 
repacked the little box the lad's face grew into a hideous grimace. 
He waited till Mr. Rogers had finished his enumeration, and 
then clapping his handkerchief over his mouth, he uttered a 
loud " Ugh ! " and ran and stood a few yards away. 

" I shan't go," he cried. 

" Why not ? " said Mr. Rogers, smiling. 

** Why the waggon will smell of nothing but physic. What's 
the good of taking it, father ?" 



PREPARATIONS FOR THE JOURNEY. 21 

m . I I . ¦ 

"The good? Well, my boy, there's nothing like being pre- 
pared ; and we are going far away from doctors, if we wanted 
their help. We may none of us be unwell, but it is quite likely 
that we may, either of us, get a touch of fever. Resides, we might 
meet with an accident ; and for my part, as I have a little 
knowledge of medicine and surgery, I know nothing more pain- 
ful than to find people sick and to be unable to give them the 
remedy that would make them well. We shall be sure to find 
some sick people amongst the natives, and they have a wonder- 
ful appreciation of the white man's medicine." 

" Well, look here," said Jack, ** if you'll shut the box up very 
tightly, I'll consent to come." 

Mr. Rogers smiled, and did shut the little box up very tightly, 
after which the preparations went on ; and it was perfectly 
wonderful to see what that waggon would hold. 

There was a moderate case of wines and spirits, also to act 
as medicines ; several dozens of coloured blankets for presents ; 
waterproof sheets. A cask of paraffin oil was swung under 
the floor, and by it a little cooking-stove, while beside these 
swung a long box containing spades and shovels, for digging 
the waggon wheels out of holes, tools for repairs, wrenches, 
and jacks and axes, till it seemed as if there would be no end 
to the stores and material. 

Then leather slings were nailed up under the tilt for the rifles 
and guns, so that they might always be ready to hand ; for they 
were going into the land of wild beasts and savage men. Above 
all, their stores had to be so packed that their positions could 
be remembered, and they could be obtained when wanted, and 
yet leave space for blankets to be spread, and the travellers 
find room to sleep beneath the tilt upon the top. 

The preparations went on ; the black driver who was tcv 
manage the oxen busied himself along with the foreloper, whose 
duty it is to walk with the foremost oxen, in getting their great 
whips in trim, and in seeing the trek-tow and dissel-boom — as 



22 



OFF TO THE WILDS, 



the great trace and pole of the waggon are called— were per- 
fect ; and they practised the team as well. 

Many of the readers may not know that for an expedition like 
this, where the waggon party expect to be travelling for months, 
perhaps for a year, through a country where roads are almost 
unknown, and where the great heavily-laden, but wonderfully 
strongly-made waggon, has to be dragged over rocks, through 
swamps, and into and out of rivers, a team of fourteen, sixteen, 
or, as in this case, even twenty oxen, will be yoked to the great 
chain or rope called the trek-tow. For some of the poor 
animals are sure to succumb during the journey ; or they may 
be killed for food, the loss being not so much felt when a 
superabundant number is taken. 

With the leading pair of oxen walks the foreloper, whose duty 
it is to choose the best road, and to avoid stones and marshy 
l)laces where the wheels would sink in ; and the success of an 
expedition depends a good deal upon having a good foreloper. 

In this case Mr. Rogers had secured a trusty Kaffir, who 
had been frequently into the interior ; but his appearance was 
against him, for he had lost one eye, from a thrust of a 
bullock's horn. But Dinny said that the one left was as good 
as two, for when Dirk looked at you, it seemed to go right 
through your head and tickle the hair behind. 



CHAPTER IV. 

INSPANKIXG FOR THE TRIP. 



The eventful morning at last ! Bright, clear, and the dew lying 
thick upon the thirsty earth ! All the arrangements had been 
made ; the waggon stood ready. Petet the driver was upon the 




box in front of the waggon ; the boys were mounted, and a 
couple of neighbours had ridden over to see them start ; but to 
the infinite vexation of Dick and Jack, the young Zulus had not 



24 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

returned. They had started off on the day when they killed the 
coranne, and that was the last that had been seen of them, 

" Now, Dinny, you may let the dogs loose," cried Dick, who 
looked brighter and better, his father thought, than he had 
been for days. Dinny at once obeyed ; when, yelping and bark- 
ing with delight, the four dogs — Pompey, Caesar, Crassus, and 
Rough'un — came bounding about, leaping up at their masters, 
and taking short dashes out into the plain and back. 

"Where are those two boys?" said Mr. Rogers suddenly. 
" I haven't seen them for days." 

" Dinny offended them," said Jack petulantly, as he patted 
the arched neck of Stockings. " He told them they shouldn't 

go." 

" Sure I only hinted to the black young gintlemen that it was 
just possible the masther might lave them behind, when they 
took themselves of! in the most ondacent way ; and that's all I 
know, sor.* 

"Here they are !" cried Jack suddenly. " Hi— yi — yi — yi — 
Coff ! Hi— yi—yi—yi— Chick ! " 

" Hi — yi — yi — yi— yi ! " echoed back ; and the two boys came 
running up, one on either side of a fierce-looking, very powerfully- 
built Zulu — a handful of assegais, and his long, narrow, oval shield 
in one hand, and for costume a fringe of skins round the waist, 
a sort of tippet of the same over his back and chest, and smaller 
fringes just beneath each knee. His back hair was secured in 
a knot behind, and depending from it were some feathers, one 
of which drooped right down his back. 

He was a noble-looking specimen of humanity, and as he 
came up he gazed almost haughtily round at the party, seeming 
as if he had come as an enemy, and not as a friend. 

" Been fetch de father," cried Coffee, pushing the great Zulu 
towards Mr. Rogers. " Father going to boss. Kill and hunt 
lion." 

Mr. Rogers raised his e^'ebrows a little, for he had not reckoned 
upon this ; but one more or less on such an expedition did not 



INSPANNING FOR THE TRIP. 25 

matter, for plenty of provisions would be killed ; and a man 
like this was no little addition to their strength. 

" Oh, very good," he said. " Dinny, run into the house, and 
fetch the bread and meat we left. I daresay the boys arc 
hungry." 

Coffee and Chicory understood that, and they began to grin 
and rub their " tum-tums," as they called a prominent part of 
their persons ; biit the next moment they had dragged their 
father to introduce him to Boss Dick and Boss Jack, smiling 
with delight on seeing their young masters shake hands with the 
Zulu warrior. 

Dinny did not look at all pleasant as he brought out the 
bread and meat, which was rapidly shared by the Zulu and his 
boys, who evidently meant to eat the food as they went along ; 
so after one more look round, and a glance at the two great 
water-casks swung behind the waggon, Mr. Rocjers gave the 
word, Peter the driver stood up on the great chest strapped in 
front, cracking his whip with both hands, and Dirk the foreloper 
followed suit. 

" Trek Hans ! Trek Buffler ! Trek Zulu ! Trek boys ! Trek !" 
shouted Peter, dancing about on the chest in his excite- 
ment, 

'• Trek, beauties ! Trek, beauties ! Trek ! Trek ! Trek ! " 
yelled Dirk. 

The oxen slowly tugged at their yokes, the great trek-tow 
tightened, the wheels of the fine new waggon creaked ; and as 
Mr. Rogers mounted the big bay, his sons took off and waved 
their caps, giving a loud cheer, for now they were really off to 
the wilds. 



26 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER V. 

A TASTE OF SOMETHING TO COME. 

There was but little in the way of incident for some time. 
The dogs seemed to be never weary of hunting here and there, 
thrusting their noses under every rock, their heads into every 
hole ; but they found nothing till after the midday halt, when a 
furious barking from the setter Rough'un took the attention 
of all, and Mr. Rogers and the boys cantered up to a thin 
cluster of trees, where, on what seemed to be at first a broken 
stump, but which on nearer inspection proved to be a 
tall ragged ant hill, a vicious-looking snake was curled, swing- 
ing its head about threateningly, and darting out its forked 
tongue at the dog, which kept its distance, barking furiously. 

** A poisonous fellow — cobra evidently. Now, Dick, bring it 
down." 

" No ; let Jack shoot, father," said Dick. " My head aches, 
and I'm tired. Well, yes, I will." 

** That's right, my boy. I want you to master this weak- 
ness," said his father. " And besides, I want you to try how 
your horse stands fire. Nip him tightly with your knees." 

Dick cocked his double-barrelled breechloader— fired— and 
the serpent hissed loudly and began to descend, but a shot from 
Jack's rifle laid it writhing on the ground, when, before it 
could be prevented, Rough'un seized it behind the head, 
worrying it furiously. 

Fortunately the creature was mortally wounded, or it might 
have gone hard with one of the dogs, its poison being very 
violent ; and the others coming up soon tore it to pieces. 



A TASTE OF SOMETHING TO COME. 



=7 



" Your horse* betutvcd admirably," said Mr, Rogers. " You 
must train them, my boys, so that they will stand where you 
leave them, and take no more notice of a shot fired over their 
heads than at a distance." 




Tbey halted directly after fur a midday meal, tlie oxen finding 
a plentiful supply of fresh grass and water, a.nd aitcr a good rest 
they were once more on the way, the horses behind under the 
care of Dinny and the Zulu warrior. 

Mr. Rogers and bis sons were close to the oxen, Cofi'ee and 



28 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

Chicory were close behind, and they were inspecting the 
team, which was pulling steadily and well, when Mr. Rogers 
said, — 

'* Well, boys, we may as well get our guns. We shall soon 
be in the hunting country now." 

" Hi ! Yup — yup— yup ! " shouted Coffee. 

" Ho ! Yup — yup — yup ! * yelled Chicory. The dogs began 
to yelp and bark ; and in the excitement, as they saw an animal 
like a great long-eared spotted cat dash out of a clump of trees 
and make for some rocky ground, all joined in the chase ; Mr. 
Rogers ran as hard as the rest, forcing his pith hunting-helmet 
down over his head. Coffee got well in front, waving his arms 
and shouting ; but Chicory trod upon a thorn and began to limp. 
As for Jack, in his excitement he tripped over a stump, and fell 
sprawling; while Dick had hard work to save himself from a 
similar mishap. Last of all, whip in hand, came the foreloper, 
who had left the oxen in his excitement, flourishing and crack- 
ing his lash. 

There was a sharp hunt for a few minutes, during which the 
followers toiled on over the rocky ground, seeing nothing after 
their first glimpse of the lynx — for such Mr. Rogers declared it 
to be ; then they met the dogs coming back, looking very stupid, 
and quite at fault. 

Rough'un, however, went on with Coffee, and Jack followed, 
to find that the lynx had evidently gone down a deep rift, 
where it was impossible to follow it ; so they went back to the 
waggons, both Jack and his father determining that in future 
they would never be without either gun or rifle in hand. 

Every minute almost as they journeyed on, the boys realized 
the value of having the waggon made in the best manner, and of 
the strongest wood that could be obtained, for it bumped and 
swayed about, creaking dismally beneath its heavy load, and 
making the casks and pots slung beneath clatter together every 
now and then, as it went over some larger stone than usual. 
They saw too the value of a good foreloper ; for if a careless 



k 



A TASTE OF SOMETHING TO COME, 29 

man were at the head of the oxen, the waggon might at any 
moment be wrecked over some rugged rock or sunk to the floor 
in a black patch of bog. 

The dogs seemed rather ashamed of themselves after the 
chase of the lynx, and went with lolling tongues to trot behind the 
waggon, Pompey now and then making an angry snatch at 
Csesar, while Crassus threw up his muzzle and uttered a dismal 
yelp. Rough'un, too, did not seem happy, but to have that 
lynx on his conscience ; for he kept running out from beneath the 
waggon, and looking back as if bound to finish the chase by 
hunting the catlike creature out ; but he always altered his 
mind and went under the waggon once more, to walk close to 
the heels of the last pair of oxen, one of which looked back from 
time to time in a thoughtful meditative way, with its great soft 
eyes, as if in consideration whether it ought to kick out and send 
Rough'un flying. 

This act made Rough'un run forward, and as the ox bent 
down snufEng at it, the dog leaped up at its muzzle, then at that 
of the next ox, and went on right along the whole span, saluting 
all in turn without getting trampled, and ending by retaking his 
place beneath the waggon front. 

For Rough'un was a dog of a different breed to his fellows, 
and though he hunted with them he did not associate with them 
afterwards, but kept himself to himself. 

There was not much to interest the boys after the first ex- 
citement of the start was over, for they had to travel over plain 
and mountain for some distance before they would reach 
ground that had not been well hunted over by the settlers ; but 
every step took them nearer, and there were endless matters to 
canvass. For instance, there were the capabilities of their horses, 
which grew in favour every time they were mounted ; the ex- 
cellences of their guns, presented to them by their father for 
the expedition, light handy pieces, double-barrelled breech- 
loaders, the right-hand barrel being that of an ordinary shot 
gun, the left-hand being a rifle sighted up to three hundred yards. 



30 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

It would be hard to say how many times these guns were 
loaded and unloaded, slung across their owners' backs and 
taken down again, while the eagerness with which they looked 
forward to some good opening for trying their skill was 
notable. 

But beyond an occasional bird which fled with a loud cry at 
the approach of the waggon, and a little herd of springbok 
seen upon the edge of a low hill quite a mile away, there was 
little to break the monotony of the journey over the hot sandy 
waste, and every one was pretty weary when, just at sundown, 
they came in sight of a low house, the abode of a Boer who 
had settled there some years before, and who, with his large 
family, seemed to be perfectly content, and who smiled with 
satisfaction on being presented with some sweets in return for 
his civility in pointing out the places where the outspanned 
oxen could 6nd an abundance of grass and water. 

Here the first experience of sleeping in a waggon was gone 
through, and very comical it seemed to boys who were accus- 
tomed to the comforts of a well-regulated home. 

Dick laughed, and said that it was like sleeping in the attic, 
while the servants slept in the kitchen, for the drivers and the 
three Zulus made themselves snug under the waggon, Dinny 
joining them very unwillingly, after a verbal encounter with 
Dick, who, however, much he might be wanting in bodily 
strength, was pretty apt with his tongue. 

" Sure, Masther Dick, sir, Dinny 's the last boy in the world 
to grumble ; but Tm a good Christian, and the blacks are as 
havthen as can be." 

m 

" Well, Dinny, and what of that ?" 

" Why, ye see, Masther Dick, Pm a white man, and they 
are all blacks ; and," he added with a grin, " I shouldn't like to 
catch the complaint.'* 

** What complaint, Dinny ? '* 

"Why, sure, sir, it would be very painful to you and 



A TASTE OF SOMETHING TO COME. 31 

Masther Jack there, and the masther himself, if you found poor 
Dinny get up some fine morning as black as a crow." 

" Get along with you," cried Jack, 

" Oh, be easy, Masther Jack, dear,** cried Dinny ; " and how 
would you like to slape under a waggon wid five sacks of 
smoking and living coals like them Zulus and Kaffirs is ? " 

** I wouldn't mind," replied Jack. " We are on a hunting 
expedition, and we must take things in the rough." 

** Sure an' it is rough indade," grumbled Dinny. " Vm 
thinking rd rather go sthraight home to my poor owld mother's 
cabin, and slape there dacent like, wid nothing worse in it than 
the poor owld pig." 



32 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER VI. 

A FALSE ALARM. 

, Mr. Rogers had felt a little hesitation in giving the fierce- 
looking Zulu permission to make one of the party, but as they 
journeyed on across the apparently interminable plains between 
the Vaal and the Great Crocodile rivers, he awoke more and more 
to the fact that he had secured a valuable ally. For the old 
warrior entered into the spirit of the expedition at once, help- 
ing with the oxen or to extricate the waggons in difficult places, 
showing himself quite at home in the management of horses, 
and being evidently an excellent guide, and above all a hunter 
of profound knowledge and experience. 

As soon as he realized the intentions of Mr. Rogers, he be- 
came most earnest in his endeavours to get the party well on 
their way farther and farther into the wilds, making the eyes of 
the boys dilate as he told them in fair English of the herds of 
antelope and other game he would soon show them in the 
plains ; the giraffes, buffaloes, elephants, and, above all, the 
lions, whose haunts he knew, and to which he promised to 
take them. 

Whenever the father began to talk in this strain his two sons 
grew excited, and started to perform hunting dances, in which 
the number of imaginary lions and buffaloes they slew was 
something enormous. Every now and then, too, the boys 
killed some imaginary elephant, out of whose unwieldy head 
they made believe to hack the tusks, which they invariably 
brought and laid at their young masters' feet, grunting the while 
with the exertion. 



A FALSE ALARM, 33 

Dick soon grew tired of it however. 

" It's all very well," he said ; " but if that is the way we are 
to load the waggons with ivory, we shall be a long time get- 
ting enough to pay the expenses of the journey." 

Mr. Rogers joined them one day as they were walking along 
in advance of the slow-moving waggon, and began to question 
the 2^1u about the game in the wilds north of where they 
were ; and in his broken English he gave so glowing an account 
that his hearers began to doubt its trutlu 

He said that when he had had to flee from his own people for 
his life, he had at first gone right away into the hunting country, 
and stayed there for a year, finding out, in his wanderings, places 
where hunting and shooting people had never been. Here, he 
declared, the wild creatures had taken refuge as in a sanctuary ; 
and he declared that he should take the boss who had been 
so kind to his boys, and both the young bosses, to a wild place 
where they would find game in abundance, and where the 
forests held the great rhinoceros, plenty of elephants, and 
amongst whose open glades the tall giraffe browse the leafage 
of the high trees. There in the plains were herds of buffalo 
too numerous to count, quagga, zebra, gnu, eland, and bok 
of all kinds. There was a great river there, he said, full of 
fish, and with g^eat crocodiles ready to seize upon the unwary. 
The hippopotamus was there too, big and massive, ready to 
upset boats or to attack all he could see. 

Mr. Rogers watched his sons attentively as the Zulu nar- 
rated his experience of the land, and he was delighted to see 
how much Dick was already leaving off his dull languid ways, 
and taking an interest in what was projected. One thing the 
father wished to arrive at, and that was whether Dick would 
be frightened through his weakness, and the hunting parties 
consequently do him more harm than good. But just then a 
question put by his son showed him that he was as eager as his 
brother for an encounter with the wild creatures of the forest 
and plains. 

D 



34 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" And do you say there are lions ? ** said Dick. 

" Yes, plenty lion," said the Zulu. " They come to camp at 
night, and try to get the ox and horse." 

" Oomph ! oomph ! oomph ! ** growled Coffee, in an admir- 
able imitation of the lion's roar. 

" Keep big fire,** said the Zulu," then no lion come." 

" Well, Dick," said Mr. Rogers, " how do you feel ? Ready 
for the fray ? " 

"Yes, father, I am longing for the time when we shall get 
amongst the wild beasts. I want to try my gun ; and I want to 
grow strong and manly, like Jack." 

"All in good time, my boy," replied Mr. Rogers, smiling. 
" We shall soon be leaving civilization almost entirely behind, 
and then you shall make your first attempts at becoming a 
mighty hunter." 

Comparatively uninteresting as the journey was, they still 
had plenty to take their attention — ^grand views of distant 
mountains ; wondrous sunsets ; great flights of birds ; but the 
absence of game was remarkable ; and twice over, in spite of 
their being so well armed and provided, Mr. Rogers was glad 
to purchase a freshly-killed springbok of a Boer, at one of the 
outlying farms that they passed. 

On the seventh night out though, their fortune was better, for 
they had outspanned, or loosened their oxen from the waggon, 
just by a clump of trees in a wide plain, and the Zulu went off 
the moment they stopped. 

Both Peter and Dirk began to complain, for they expected 
help from their black companion ; but upon this occasion they 
had their work to do without aid. Coffee and Chicory having 
also gone off with their kiris in search of game. 

Mr. Rogers and his sons started off to see if they could provide 
anything palatable for supper; but though there was a 
swampy lagoon about a mile away, they did not catch sight of a 
single duck, and were returning tired and disappointed when 
they caught sight of the Zulu signalling to them to come. 



A FALSE ALARAL 35 

**He has found something,*' cried Jack eagerly; and they 
hastened over the nigged intervening space, to find that the 
father of Coffee and Chicory was evidently a keen hunter, and 
ready enough in knowing where to look for creatures that would 

¦ 

do for food. 

With almost unerring instinct he had found out this clump 
of trees, evidently one where guinea-fowl came to roost ; and 
full of hope that they would now obtain a good addition to the 
larder, or, in plain English, a few birds to roast for supper, guns 
were Supplied with cartridges, and the little party waited for the 
coming of the spotted birds. 

The pleasurable anticipations of the boys, who had a lively 
recollection of the toothsome bird with a flavour half-way 
between roast fowl and pheasant, seemed likely to be damped, 
for they had been waiting quite half an hour without hearing or 
seeing anything, when suddenly the Zulu laid his hand upon Jack's 
arm, and pointed in a direction opposite to the waggon. 

" Well, what are you pointing at?" said Jack. "I can't see 
anything. Yes, I can ; there they are, father. Look out ! " 

Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang ! 

Half-a-dozen rapid shots, and then, amidst the whizzing of 
wings and cries of the birds, some of which flew off, while others 
ran through the short grass at an astounding rate. Coffee, 
Chicory, and their father ran out beneath the trees ; and the 
result of the firing was brought in — ten fine plump birds for their 
supper. 

This was the first night that they had passed in the open, the 
previous halts having been made at some farm ; so after the 
supper the blacks were set to gather in more wood, the fire was 
well made up, and the oxen secured, it being decided to begin 
at once upon the regular plan that they would have to adopt in 
the enemy's country, the enemy being formed of the various 
wild creatures against whom they were having their campaign. 

Years back the spot where they were encamped had been 
famous for lions, but from what Mr. Rogers had heard, none 

D 2 



36 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

had been seen here now for a considerable time. Still he 
thought it better to take precautions, the party being divided 
into three watches, the first of which he took himself, with 
Chicory for a companion ; Jack was to take the second, with 
the Zulu ; and Dick, Coffee, and Dinny were to form the third. 

The oxen and horses having been all secured, the fire was 
piled up, and those who were to rest gladly availed themselves 
of the opportunity, and in a very short time nothing was to be 
heard but the fluttering noise made by the burning fire, and the 
snorting sigh of one or the other of the horses. 

In due time Jack was aroused, to sit up and stare at his 
father. 

"What's matter ?** he said sleepily. 

"Nothing, only that it is your turn to watch,** said his 
father. 

"Why, I've only just lain down," replied Jack. " It can't be 
time yet." 

But a good rub at his eyes seemed to bring a little thought- 
fulness as well, and he climbed out of the waggon and descended 
to the ground. 

" I don't think you will have anything to alarm you, my boy,*' 
6aid his father. " Wake me up though if there is the slightest 
sign of danger." 

Jack promised, and, shivering and uncomfortable, he crept up 
to the fire, which the Zulu renewed ; but though he roasted his 
face and knees, his back felt horribly cold, and he heartily wished 
himself at home, and in his snug bed. But the Zulu began 
to look round at the cattle, to satisfy himself that all were safe ; 
and then seating himself with his assegai across his knees close 
to the fire, he began to tell the young Englishman about the 
dangers that would have surrounded them if they had encamped 
here a few years earlier ; and then he lapsed into such vivid 
accounts of his own hunting adventures and escapes, that the 
four hours' watch seemed to have passed like magic, and Jack 
was ready to finish the next ; but recalling the last injunctions 



A FALSE ALARM. 37 

he had received from his father, he went to the waggon, roused 
up Dick, and from under it Dinny and Coffee, and soon after 
left them to finish the morning watch. 

Jack felt as if it would be of no use to try and sleep again ; but 
knowing that their next day's journey would be very fatiguing, he 
lay down in his brother's place, found the blankets very warm and 
cosy, and then, with the sound of Dinny yawning loudly, he fell 
fast asleep. He seemed hardly to have closed his eyes, when a 
shout aroused him, just as he heard his father seize his double 
rifle, and go to the front of the waggon. 

Jack did likewise, with as much speed as his sleepy confusion 
would allow ; and on reaching the opening he found that it was 
still dark, so that he could not have been long asleep, the fire 
was burning brilliantly, and every one was on the alert. 

"Yes, I seemed to hear it myself in my sleep," said Mr. 
Rogers, in answer to some words spoken by Dick. " Did it sound 
near?* 

** Sure, sor, it was close by, and I thought the bastes had got 
one of the bullocks." 

The Zulu was with them now, having sprung from his place 
beneath the waggon, asking eagerly what was wrong. 

" They heard a lion prowling round," replied Mr. Rogers. 

" No, no,** said the Zulu. " No lion here.'* 

" But I heard it quite plainly," said Dick, who felt angry at 
being doubted. 

" Sure and 1 did too, so close to me shoulder that 1 could feci 
the haste's breath blow over on to me chake." 

" No, no," said the Zulu. " Look ! see ! " 

He pointed towards the oxen and horses in turn. 

" But it would be impossible to see it in this darkness," said 
Mr. Rogers. 

"Yes, but the oxen," said the Zulu. •* They would not lie 
quiet if there was a lion." 

" Of course not," said Mr. Rogers, envying the savage his 
knowledge. "Then what caused the alarm ?" 



5S OFF TO THE WILDS. 

There was no reply ; and after satisfying themselves that aU 
was safe, and piling up the rest of the wood upon the fire — for 
the streaks of the coming dawn could be seen — the tired 
watchers returned to the waggon, and slept until roused for 
breakfast, when the secret of the alarm came out» Coffee having 
been afraid to confess at the time that he knew it was his 
brother imitating the lion's cry in his sleep, his proximity to Dick 
and Dinny making it seem the more real. Feeling sure that 
he would be punished if he spoke. Coffee had remained silent^ 
and so the matter ended, Dick laughing heartily at the false 
alarm, though Dinny would not believe that the cry emanated 
from the boy. 

** Jist as if I was such a baby as to belave that story, Mas- 
ther Jack," he said. " I tell ye it was the lion himself attack- 
ing the bastes, and you'll see he'll be about the camp now 
every night, as regular as clockwork. It's very good of the 
masther to try and put one at his aise about the wild bastes ; 
but that there was a lion — I know it was ; and if, Masther Jack, 
dear, I'm missing some night, ye may know that there's a lion 
ating of me ; and I hope ye'll take me bones back and give 
me a dacent burying somewhere among Christians, and. not 
lave them kicking about out here in a foreign land." 

" But how can you be so stupid, Dinny ? Father says it was 
Chicory, and you know how he imitates the wild beasts. 

'* Ah, do ye take me for a baby, Masther Jack ? " said the man, 
reproachfully. ** There, let it go. I'm your father's servant, and 
he must have his own way ; but it's cruel work this coming out 
into such savage lands ; and there's one man as will niver see 
home parts again." 

When once Dinny had got an idea in his head, to use his 
own words, **a shillelagh would not knock it out ;" so he remained 
perfectly certain that the camp had been attacked by a lion ; 
and he went about prophesying that the coming, night would 
produce two. 



39 



CHAPTER VII. 

HOW THE BOYS FOUND IT WAS NOT EASY TO SHOOT. 

The oxen were inspanned and the horses saddled, on as glorious 
a morning as ever shone over the great African continent. The 
breakfast things had been stowed away, a glance given round 
to see that nothing had been left behind ; the driver's and fore- 
loper's whips cracked ; and with loud shouts of " Trek, boys, 
trek ! " the great waggon slowly went on its course, every one 
forgetting the troubles of the disturbed night, in the glorious 
sunshine and dew-glittering herbage. 

Coffee and Chicory ran and bounded and spun their kiris in 
the air, catching them again, and then running on beside the 
cantering horses of their young masters, while their father ran 
beside Mr. Rogers' big bay. Above all, the dogs showed their 
delight by barking, yelping, and making insane charges here 
and there, Rough'un's great delight being to run his head into 
one or other of the holes made by the burrowing animals of the 
plains, and then worrying and snapping at nothing until he 
was called away. 

As the waggon lumbered on, father and sons wandered off 
to left or right, exploring, examining the trees and strange 
plants, and sometimes bringing down some bright-plumaged 
bird, which was carefully laid in a tin case carried for the pur- 
pose by the Zulu, ready to be skinned and dressed to keep as a 
specimen on their return. 

That they were approaching the game country was now 
hourly becoming plainer, for from time to time little knots of 
bok conld be seen upon the hills ; but when Dick or Jack 



40 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

eagerly drew the attention of the Zulu to the fact, he only 
laughed, and said it was nothing, bidding them to wait. 

" We must have some venison for dinner to-day, boys," said 
Mr. Rogers, cantering up; ** so one of you had better try your 
rifle. Who's it to be?" 

" Let it be Jack, father," said Dick, quietly ; ** my hands are 
not steady yet." 

" Very good," said Mr. Rogers ; while the Zulu listened at- 
tentively, trying to comprehend every word. ** Now then, Jack, 
how shaU you go- to work ? There is a little herd of half-a- 
dozen springbok there, on that hill, nearly a mile away." 

" Get close and shoot them," replied Jack, stoutly. 

" Say, if you can, my boy,*' replied Mr. Rogers, smiling. " Now 
look here, Jack, this is the way the Boers shoot springbok, and 
I don't think you will find a better plan. Have a few cartridges 
handy, so that you can load quickly, and then gallop easily to- 
wards the herd, which will begin playing about, till they grow too 
alarmed to let you get nearer, and then they'll bound off. This 
is your time : gallop up as close as you can, and when you see 
they are about to go, leap from your horse and fire — reload, and 
fire again. If you are very quick you may get three shots at 
the herd before they are out of range." 

" But suppose I miss, father ? " said Jack. 

"Don't suppose anything of the kind, my boy," said Mr. 
Rogers, smiling ; " but go and do it. Time enough to consider 
failure when you have failed." 

Jack nodded, opened the breech of his gun, placed half-a- 
dozen cartridges ready, leaped down to tighten the girths of his 
saddle, the cob standing perfectly still. Then mounting once 
more, he waved his hand, touched his horse's sides with his heels, 
and away it went like the wind. 

As he started. Chicory, who seemed to have adopted him as his 
leader, made a bound at the saddle, caught hold of the pommel, 
and ran by his side with marvellous speed. 

The springbok seemed to pay not the slightest heed to their 



THE BOYS FOUND IT NOT EASY TO SHOOT 41 

approach, and Jack was beginning to feel excited with the chase, 
and to calculate how far they should be able to get before 
having to dismount, when all at once thete was a sudden check ; 
he went flying over his horse's head, his double barrel escaped 
from his hand, and he found himself lying on the hard sandy 
earth, confused and puzzled, with Chicory trying to pull him 
up ; and Stockings standing close by, snorting and shivering 
with fear. 

Jack got up, and limped to where his rifle lay, feeling stupid, 
and wondering how it was that he had been thrown ; and he had 
but regained his piece, and was ruefully examining it, when his 
father and Dick came galloping up. 

'* Much hurt, my boy? " cried Mr. Rogers, eagerly. 

** Only my leg and arm a little,'* said Jack, rubbing first one 
and then the other ; '* but I did think I could ride better than 
that, father." 

** Ride, my boy ? Why, no one could have helped that. Don't 
you know how it was ? " 

" I know Stockings threw me," replied Jack. 

" Threw you ? Nonsense, boy ! He set his fore feet in an 
ant-bear hole, and turned a complete somersault. Wc were 
afraid that he had rolled upon you." 

" Then a good rider couldn't have helped it, father ? " 

** Helped it ? No, my boy." 

" Oh, I fed better now," said Jack, laughing ; and, limping up 
to his horse, he patted its neck and remounted, though not 
without difliculty. " Where's the bok. Chicory ? " 

Chicory pointed to where they were, nearly a mile away, and 
looking exceedingly small, but quite clear in the bright African 
atmosphere ; and without a word he set oiT again. 

" Ought he to go, father ? " said Dick. 

** Yes, my boy. He is not much hurt, and it will be a lesson 
to both him and his horse. I am glad to see that he has so 
much spirit." 

A short chuckle close by made Mr. Rogers turn his head, 



42 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

and he saw that the Zulu understood his words, and was 
smiling approval. 

" Brave boy ! Make big hunter warrior, some day/' said the 
Zulu. 

" Boss Dick big brave hunter too," cried Coffee indigpiantly, 
as he went and laid a hand upon the neck of Dick's horse. 
" Boss Dick go shoot bok ?" 

" Not now, Coffee," replied Dick, smiling ; and then the little 
group remained watching Jack, who was in full chase of the 
springbok, which, as he came nearer, began to skip and bound 
and gambol together, leaping over each other's backs, but all the 
time watching the coming enemy. 

It was an exciting time for Jack, and in it he forgot the pain 
in his shoulder and the stiffness of his leg. He had the rifle- 
barrel ready cocked, and his feet out of the stirrups, and at last, 
when he had galloped up to within a couple of hundred yards, 
he saw such evident preparations for flight on the part of the little 
bok, that he leaped down, dropped upon one knee; and fired 
straight at the flying herd. 

Before the smoke had risen he had another cartridge in the 
rifle, and fired again. Once more he threw open the breech and 
loaded and fired, though by this time the bok were seven or eight 
hundred yards away. But in spite of the care in the aim taken, 
no bok fell struggling to the ground, and Jack rode back slowly 
to join his father, wondering whether the bore of his rifle was 
true, for he knew, he said to himself, that he had aimed 
straight. 

When he hinted at the possibility of the rifle being in fault, 
his father smiled, and Dick gave him so comical a look that 
Jack said no more, but rode on silently by the side of the waggon, 
till, seeing his disappointment, his father joined him. 

" Why, you foolish boy,** he exclaimed, " it was not likely that 
you would hit one of those flying bok. It is a matter of long 
practice ; and even the Boers, who have studied such shooting 
for years, often miss." 



THE BOYS FOUND IT NOT EASY TO SHOOT 43 

*^ But you see, father, I did make such a dreadful mess of it,'' 
pleaded Jack. *' I came off my horse ; and then I shot over and 
over again, and missed. I can't help feeling what a muddle I 
made.** 

" Well, for my part," said his father, '* I am rather glad that 
you failed. If you had succeeded, my boy, without effort at the 
first trial, it would have made you careless. These failures will 
teach you the necessity for using care, and trying to perfect your- 
self as a marksman." 

** But there'll be no bok for dinner," said Jack ruefully. 

** Never mind," replied Mr. Rogers. " I daresay the boys will 
bring in something." 

He was right, for Coffee and Chicory brought in six great 
plain partridges, which they had knocked down with their kiris, 
and these were roasted at the midday meal, and eaten with the 
appetite found in the desert. 

As the day wore on, and after the refreshed oxen were once 
more doing their duty, the effects of the last night's scare began 
to show itself, Peter, Dirk, and Dinny declaring that they had 
seen lions creeping after the waggon in the distance, ready to 
pounce upon the oxen as soon as it was dark. 

Dirk reported this to Mr. Rogers, who gave them all a good 
talking to about their cowardice. 

** Why, look at these Zulu boys," he cried ; "they don't show 
any fear, while you grown men are almost as bad as children." 

" Sure, sor, an' the Zulu boys don't know any better," said 
Dinny. ** They're little better than the bastes themselves." 

" Well, there are my own boys," exclaimed Mr. Rogers. ** They 
are not afraid. I wonder at you, Dinny, an Irishman, and to 
set such a bad example to these blacks." 

* And is it afraid ?" said Dinny. " Not a bit of it I'm not a 
bit afraid at all ; but I can't help thinking of what my poor 
mother's feelings would be if she came to know that her only son 
Dennis had been aten up by wild bastes. I don't mind a bit, but 
I wouldn't hurt her feelings for the world." 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



.-*./^;*. ¦^ \; ,. % 




^x: 

*->; 




r ¦ i 


g^W^3^f-! 




ij'il 




i ''m^X 


J,M 







OUTSPANNED. 



" Then oblige me, Dinny, by bolding your tongue, for if I hear 
ly more complaints I shall Scad you back." 



THE BOYS FOUND IT NOT EASY TO SHOOT. 4s 

*^ Sind me back ! " ejaculated Dinny, as soon as his master 
bad gone. '' Sind me back across the big desert all alone by 
meself. Why, it would be worse than murther. It's meself 
wishes I hadn't come." 

Whatever he may have wished, these sharp words had the 
effect of silencing Dinny for the time being ; but when the Zulu 
had led them at last, just at sundown, into a dense patch of forest, 
where the overhanging trees made the gloom quite oppressive, 
Dinny's eyes showed white circles round them ; and if it had not 
been for the fact that they found a Boer and his family encamped 
by the water they had been seeking, the Irishman would have 
probably turned, and at all risks have fled. 

People are ready enough to make friends out in the desert, 
and the Boer gladly offered the use of the fire he had made, and 
a part of the springbok he had shot, on receiving a share of 
some of the good things brought by the new comers. Then, 
with the great camp-kettle simmering over the fire, and with 
the boys patiently waiting for their share of the provisions, guns 
were cleaned and laid ready for use, the men the while busily 
attending to the oxen and horses, while the Zulu and his boys 
collected wood into a pile to keep up the fire. 

" Sure an' it's a dreadful melancholy-looking place," said Dinny 
with a shudder. And then he listened attentively while the Boer 
expressed his belief that there were lions in the neighbourhood, 
though they were not often seen* 



46 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

HOW NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAINING, 

Days and days of steady travel, and the slowly gained miles 
mounted up till they had journeyed far into the interior. Mr. 
Rogers, yielding to the importunities of his boys, had several 
times over been ready to come to a halt ; but the Zulu still 
pointed forward, and feeling that there must be much truth in 
his declarations regarding the game country on ahead, he was 
allowed to act as guide. 

It was a long journey, but though they did not have much 
sport, it was not monotonous, for Mr. Rogers was a good 
naturalist, and eager to collect everything curious in beetle, 
butterfly, and bird, so that all hands were pretty busy from dawn 
to dark. Coffee and Chicory, after they had been taught not to 
pull off the feathers, became very clever at skinning birds, some 
of which had been denizens of the woods, some of the lagoons 
and marshes they had passed, and which were shot at daybreak, 
or else after sunset, from amongst the great beds of reeds. 
Then if they were ducks, the bodies became occupants of the 
great pot ; if they were not considered eatable they fell to the 
share of the dogs. 

That great iron pot, which was always suspended from three 
poles over every fire that was made, became an institution. The 
idea was taken from a hint given by a hunting party, one of the 
gentlemen forming it telling Mr. Rogers that, upon returning 
weary and exhausted to camp, there was nothing so restorative 
as good rich soup. Consequently, whenever a buck was shot, 
great pieces of its flesh were placed in the pot, and allowed to 



NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAIMNG, 47 

stew till all their goodness was gone, when the blacks considered 
them a delicacy, the rich soup being the portion of the hunting 
party. 

Game was scarce, but they got a sufficiency of either small 
bok or birds to supply their wants ; and, whether it was the 
constant change, the fresh air, the rich meat essence which 
Dick partook of with avidity, or whether it was a combination 
of the effect of all these, the change in the boy was magical. 
He could take a long ride now without feeling weary, and want- 
ing in appetite ; he was ready \o buckle to and help when the 
waggon was stuck, literally putting his shoulder to the wheel 
with a will, and in place of hanging back, he was now the first 
to spy out game, and set off in chase, making Jack quite envious 
by coming back in triumph with a couple of springbok hang^ing 
from his saddle-bows, both having had to succumb to his 
rifle. 

But this was not to be borne ; and Jack at once took Chicory 
into his confidence. 

" I must shoot a springbok. Chick," he said. " Dick has shot 
two." 

" Boss Jack shoot springbok to-morrow," said the boy, de- 
cisively ; and soon after daybreak roused his young master, and 
pointed out across the plain towards the rising sun. 

*• Bok," he said laconically ; and while Jack was giving a 
finishing touch or two to his dress, the boy ran off, and began to 
saddle Stockings, having the little horse ready by the time Jack 
was prepared to mount. 

The others were not awake, saving the Zulu and Dick, who 
had the morning watch ; so Jack got off unquestioned, and rode 
away in the direction pointed out by Chicory, whose dark eyes 
made out the presence of the little bok long before they could 
be seen by his young master, who began to think that he had 
been deceived, and expressed his doubts upon the point. 

But Chicory smiled, and laid his hand upon Jack's arm, 
pointing to where some shadowy shapes of animals could be 



48 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

seen through the faint mist hanging over a low clump of hillocks ; 
and with a cry of joy the boy pressed his horse's sides, and went 
off at a swinging canter, without discomposing Chicory in the 
least, for the boy held on to a strap at the pummel of the saddle 
as before, and there being no ant-bear hole in the way, or, the 
horse having learned better through his fall, they rapidly neared 
the little herd, which began the antics peculiar to these animals, 
till the lad was getting close up, when they began to flee at a 
tremendous rate. 

Quick as thought, Jack had sprung from his saddle, and sent 
a bullet after the herd ; then another, and another ; but all ap- 
parently without result Then disappointed and vexed. Jack 
turned to Chicory as if it was his fault. But the boy had climbed 
an old ant-hill, and was watching the flying herd with his eyes 
shaded by his hand. 

** One down — two down," he cried, sending joy through Jack's 
breast ; for, on galloping after the herd, it was to find one bok 
lying dead, and another so badly wounded that it became an 
easy capture. 

It was with no little importance then that Jack rode back with 
his two bok, ready to receive the congratulations of his father, 
for his manifest improvement in handling his rifle, and in hunt- 
ing the bok according to the accepted plan. 

At last their guide, after looking on with something almost 
supercilious in his face at this, to him, puny style of hunting, 
and contentment with such small game as birds, springbok, 
and the like, announced that the next day they would be enter- 
ing upon what he termed his hunting country. 

The travellers had now reached a more rugged tract of land, 
scored with deep ravines, along which, at some time or another, 
small rivers must have coursed, while now the narrow stony 
tracks were found convenient for waggon tracks, though often 
enough the way was cruelly difficult, and all had to set to and 
clear a passage for the wheels by bodily removing some of the 
worst of the stones. 



NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAINING. 49 

There was no hesitation or hanging back at such times, for all 
had to set to, even Dinny playing a pretty good part, considering 
that he abhorred manual labour. 

Quite a change seemed to have come over the General, as Dick 
aptly dubbed their Zulu guide ; for though he gave way in every- 
thing connected with the management of the waggon, and was 
exceedingly respectful to Mr. Rogers, no sooner did any hunting 
matter come to the front, or a question of the best direction to 
take, than he seemed to take the lead as if in spite of himself. 

At first Mr. Rogers felt annoyed, and ready to put the man 
down ; but in a very short time he saw that the Zulu's sole 
thought was for the success of the expedition, and that his actions 
were the natural results of his former life ; for, savage though 
he was, and servant to this expedition, he had been a prince in 
his own tribe, and a leader amongst the people. 

The night was coming on fast, when one day, after a long and 
weary trek, the heavily laden waggon was approaching a belt of 
elevated forest-land, where the General had assured Mr. Rogers 
they would find water. 

It had been a toilsome day, hot and dusty, and at their mid- 
day rest there had been hardly a mouthful of herbage for the 
tired oxen, while water there was none. The contents of the 
two casks swinging behind the waggon were jealously guarded 
for the travellers' use ; but so miserable did the cattle seem 
that the two boys asked. their father to tap one of them for the 
oxen and horses. 

" It will be but a taste a-piece," he said ; " but perhaps you 
are right, boys." 

Then the tap being set running, every ox and horse had a re- 
freshing taste, though it was hard work to get the pail away from 
each thirsty mouth. 

Then all through that long parching afternoon they had toiled 
on, with the draught cattle growing more listless, the horses 
sluggish and restless ; and a general feeling of weariness seemed 
to have seized upon all. 

E 



so OFF TO THE WILDS. 

The result was shown in the silence with which they pro- 
gressed. The driver and foreloper ceased to shout and crack 
their whips ; the Zulus trudged slowly on behind the waggon ; 
and out of compassion for their horses, Mr. Rogers and his sons 
walked beside the weary beasts. 

'* You are sure we shall find water at sundown ? ^ said Dick 
to the GeneraL 

" Nothing is sure out in the wilds, young master," said the 
Zulu gravely. "There should be water there. If there is 
not, we must trek on through the night, to the first river or 



6* 



spring 

" But will there be water there ? " 

" We shall be in the game country then, and I can soon find 
where the game goes to drink, and can lead you there.** 

This was satisfactory, and they trudged on and on, with the 
land gradually rising, making the pull more heavy for the oxen, 
whose tongues were lolling out, and whose efforts at last became 
so painful that Mr. Rogers at once accepted his sons* proposal, 
which was that the horses should help. 

A halt was called, and great stones were placed beneath the 
wheels to make sure that there should be no running backwards 
on the part of the waggon, and then the tethering ropes were 
fastened to the horses* saddles ; the Zulus and the boys took their 
head ; the word was given to start ; the ropes that had been 
secured to different parts of the waggon tightened ; and though 
the horses could not pull as if they were properly harnessed, 
the impulse they gave relieved the weary oxen, and after half an 
hour's toilsome drag, the waggon was drawn to the top of the 
incline, and the travellers had the pleasure of seeing that a 
tolerably level way lay before them. 

But there was no sign of water, and Mr. Rogers looked 
serious as he swept the dimly seen country before him with his 
glass. 

"Had we not better outspan here?" he said, "and let the 
oxen rest. We could start again at daybreak.*' 



NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAINING. 51 

But the General shook his head. 

" No, boss," he replied. ** Let us go on. We may find water 
yet" 

Mr. Rogers gave way, and in a listless, weary fashion the 
heavy waggon was dragged on. 

** Oh, I am so tired," cried Jack ; " and I'd give anything to 
be able to walk right into a big pond and drink, and soak myself 
outside. My skin feels as if it was cracking." 

"Pm very tired, too," said Dick; "but not so tired as I 
thought I should be. Why I must have walked twenty miles 
to-day. I wonder whether that means that I am growing 
stronger." 

*• You need not wonder," said Mr. Rogers, who had heard his 
words. " You may be sure, my boy. But how dark it is grow- 
ing ! There are the stars." 

" What's the matter with the bullocks ? " cried Jack suddenly. 
** Why, father, they're gone mad with thirst." 

" Water," cried the General, pointing ahead. " They smell 
the water." . 

The sensitiveness was caught up by the horses, which, 
like the oxen, quickened their pace, craning with outstretched 
muzzles, their fine instinct telling them that there was water on 
ahead, towards which they struggled to get. 

Great care was needed now lest the water should prove to be 
merely a well or pool, into which the bullocks would rush, 
muddying the water, and perhaps trampling one another to 
death in their efforts to reach the refreshing liquid. But strive 
bard as they would, it proved to be impossible to keep the 
thirsty creatures back. The waggon had not proceeded so fast 
since they started ; and the speed was growing greater, causing the 
great lumbering vehicle to rock and sway in a most alarming 
fashion. If they had encountered a rock, however small, there 
must have been a crash. But as it happened, they came on 
very levd ground, sloping gently towards the north. 

Klipmann, the foremost ox, a great black fellow with long 

E 2 



52 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

horns, had proclaimed the find, and communicated the fact with 
a deep-mouthed bellow ; and the next minute all was excitement 
and shouting, as the great waggon thundered and groaned 
along. 

The first thing to be done was to detach the horses, which was 
no sooner done than they seemed to take fright, and went off at 
a gallop into the gloom ahead f then, amidst the yells and 
shoutings of Peter and Dirk, who danced about as if mad, efforts 
were made to check the oxen ; but the poor beasts were frantic 
with thirst, and any serious attempt to stop them would have 
meant goring, trampling down, or being crushed by the wheels 
of the ponderous waggon. 

The wild race lasted for a mile, during which every moment 
threatened to be the waggon's last. The oxen lowed and 
trotted on, the waggon creaked, and the loose articles rattled 
and banged together. Mr. Rogers and his sons panted on at 
the sides, momentarily expecting to see it go over, and Coffee 
and Chicory, who had been very slow and silent for hours, 
whooped and yelled and added to the excitement. 

" It's all over with our trip, Jack," panted Dick. " We shall 
have to pick up the pieces to-morrow and go back." 

" Wait a bit, and let's see. Why, what's the General going 
to do?" 

For all at once the Zulu had darted on ahead after snatching 
a kiri from Chicory's hand, seized the foremost bullock, old 
Klipmann, by the horn, and, at the risk of being impaled or 
trampled down, he beat the stubborn bullock over the head with 
the club, and treating the other, its yoke-fellow, the same, he 
forced them into taking a different course, almost at right angles 
to that which they were pursuing. 

"Stop, stop!" roared Mr, Rogers. "You will upset the 
waggon." 

But he was too late. The course of the leading oxen being 
changed, the others swerved round, giving such a tug at the 
disselboom that the waggon's wreck seemed certain. The 



NATURE WAS STRONGER THAN TRAINING, 53 

whole team taking, as it did, a difTerent course, the waggon was 
dragged sidemse, and for a few seconds tottered on its two near- 
side, or left-hand, wheels. 

It seemed as if it must go over crash — that nothing could 
save it ; and Jack uttered a cry of dismay, and warning to his 
brother to get out of the way. Then, as if by a miracle, it fell 
back with a heavy thud on to the other wheels, and bumped and 
jolted on after the long team of oxen into the obscurity. And 
then^ when ruin seemed to have come completely upon the expe- 
dition, wish-wash ! splish-splash ! the foaming of water — the 
crunching of wheels over stones and sand — a quick rush — and 
the waggon was standing, axletree deep, in a swiftly flowing 
river, down whose shelving bank it had been dragged, and in 
whose cool waters the oxen and horses were washing their legs, 
and drinking deeply with delight* 



54 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER IX. 

AN AWFUL FORD TO CROSS. 

It was a wonderful relief, and following the example of the 
animals, every one waded into the cool stream above the oxen, 
and drank deeply of the delicious water. 

*' Oh, I say, father,*' cried Jack, " I never thought water was 
so good before. This is a river.** 

And really Jack had an idea that he had tumbled upon a stream 
whose waters were wine-like in their flavour ; and but for a few 
words of warning he would have gone on drinking more deeply 
still. 

" Thank goodness ! ** cried Mr. Rogers, as soon as he could 
gain his breath. ** But what an escape ! The waggon nearly 
went over. Where is that scoundrel of a Zulu ? Oh there 
you are,** he cried excitedly. " How dared you touch the oxen, 
sir ! Your mad folly nearly spoiled our journey.** 

The General looked back at Mr. Rogers, drawing himself up 
in savage pride, and his eyes seemed to flash in the darkness ; 
but he did not speak, only turned away with a dignifled look of 
displeasure. 

** I know why he did it, father," cried Dick, excitedly. ** Look, 
don't you see ? The ground slopes down here to the water. Up 
there it's all rock, and the team would have gone over a pre- 
cipice. See, it's twenty feet deep.'* 

" Of course I To be sure ! '* cried Mr. Rogers eagerly. " His 
keen sight showed him the danger. I beg your pardon, my 
man,** he cried. "I did not know the reason, and ought not to 
have acted and spoken so rashly.'* 



AN AWFUL FORD TO CROSS. 55 

? 

He held out his hand to the stern scowlii^ Zulu, as he spoke ; 
but for a moment the savage hot blood that had been roused 
by his leader's injustice refused to be tamed down, and he re- 
mained with his arms folded; but glancing at Dick's eager 
countenance, and recalling how it was due to him that the real 
truth of his actions was made known, the General let his 
better feelings prevail, and snatching Mr. Rogers' hand in his, he 
held it for a moment to his broad breast, and then let it fall. 

"Why you saved the waggon," said Mr. Rogers, after walking 
to the edge of the sudden descent where the rock went down sheer 
to the water, which bubbled and foamed against its side. 

*• Yes; all gone over together," said the General quietly. " Now 
all go across." 

" But is it wise — is it safe— to attempt to cross to night ? " said 
Mr. Rogers. 

" Will see," replied the General ; and going down into the 
water, he walked straight out past the heads of the oxen, literally 
disappearing into the darkness as he waded on. 

** Isn't he very brave to do that, father ?" asked Jack, who had 
watched the Zulu go from where they stood by the hind part 
of the waggon, whose back wheels were on the dry sand. 

** Coffee no 'fraid to go," said that young gentleman. 

** Chicory go too after father," said his brother ; and the two 
boys dashed into the rushing water past the oxen, and then dis- 
appeared. 

** What madness I " said Mr. Rogers. " Why the stream runs 
swiftly enough for them to be swept away. 

Both Jack and Dick gazed eagerly out over the swift 
river; but the black figures of the young Zulus seemed to dis- 
appear in the darkness, and for some few minutes there was an 
excited pang while they listened to the bubbling of the water 
against the fore wheels of the waggon, or the plashing made 
by the oxen as they lazily moved their legs, apparently enjoying 
the pleasant coolness of the water after their toilsome march. 

'' I ought not to have allowed them to go," said Mr. Rogers 



56 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

suddenly. " Here, Dinny, bring me the bay. Til mount, and 
try and ride over to their help ** 

** Bring the what, sor ?" said Dinny. 

" The bay," cried Mr. Rogers. *• Quick, man f quick ? ** 

"An'howlll be getting at him, sor?" said Dinny. "Sure 
lie's standing out there in the wather catching cowld, and I 
couldn't reach him widout getting very wet." 

** Why you did wade in to drink," cried Jack, indignantly. 

And with a rush and a splash he ran into the water, to where 
he could dimly make out the form of the big bay ; and catching 
it by the halter, he drew it after him, the rest of the thirst- 
quenched horses -coming plash ! plash 1 out of the water, and 
following the bay like so many sheep. 

Mr. Rogers was abotit t0 mount, when the General's voice was 
heard hailing Peter and Dirk ; and directly after their hearts 
were set at rest about Coffee and Chicory, who could be heard 
laughing in the darkness. 

" All shallow water,'* cried the General. ** Trek, Peter ; trek, 
Dirk. Good place all across." 

Mr. Rogers hesitated as to the advisability of crossing in the 
darkness ; but the oxen were already in, the waggon was also 
nearly in the river, and if allowed to stay for a few hours it would 
probably sink deeply in the sand. So, leaving his men to pur- 
sue their own course, he also waded in, while Dirk cracked his 
whip, Peter mounted on to the box and followed suit, and 
Klipmann, the black buUock, headed on into the stream. The 
shadowy-looking team could be dimly seen to straighten out ; 
there was a heavy pull at the waggon, and another, and another, 
before its fore wheels were extricated from the sand in which 
they were sinking fast, showing the wisdom of at once pro- 
ceeding ; and then, plash ! plash ! and with the water rushing 
against them, the party began to cross. 

" My ! how strong the current is," cried Jack. 

"Take hold of the waggon, my boy,'* said Mr. Rogers. 

But as the water did not come up to his waist, Jack did not 



AN A WFUL FORD TO CROSS. 57 

mind. And so the heavy load was dragged slowly through the 
stream. 

**I say, Jack," said Dick, suddenly, just as they started, 
" there are crocodiles in these rivers, ain't there ? " 

^ Oh, murther ! " ejaculated Dinny, who had gone into the 
water very unwillingly, and had wanted to ride, but Mr. Rogers 
had refused to have the waggon loaded any more, preferring 
himself to walk. 

Then there was a rush and a splash, that passed unnoticed in 
the bustle of crossing ; and at the end of ten minutes, by the 
General's guidance the team was led to a gentle slope, which 
they easily mounted, and dragged the dripping waggon forth on 
to a level grassy plain. 

The horses had followed, to stand about snorting and stamp- 
ing, fresh and bright with their bathe ; and it was now deter- 
mined, dark as it was, to trek on for a couple of miles to a rich 
grassy spot that the General said was ahead, and would be a 
good place for outspanning and camp, when a dismal yell was 
heard from the farther shore. 

" What's that ? " exclaimed Mr. Rogers. 

But no one answered. 

"Some one must be in the river," cried Dick, excitedly. 
« Where's Coffee?" 

" Here Coffee," cried the Zulu boy, who had quite accepted 
his name. 

''Then who is it ?" said Jack, looking round in the darkness. 
•' Here's Chicory." 

*• Why, it's Dinny," cried Dick. « Ahoy I Dinny ! " 

"Ahoy ! Help now, Masther Dick, sor," came from some 
distance Off. 

"The poor fellow is being swept down the river," exclaimed 
Mr. Rogers, leaping on the bay to ford or swim down to the 
drowning man . " Dinny ! Shout man I Where are you ? " he 
cried. 

" Sure, I'm here. How'll I get over at all ? " came back. 



58 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" What ! Are you ashore ?" cried Mr. Rogers. 

*' Yis, sor." 

** Then wade across, man. It isn't deep.* 

" Sure, sor, and I daren't/ 

" Dare not ! " cried Jack. " Why we did." 

'' Yis, sor ; but a great baste of a thing laid howlt o' me, and 
I had to go back." 

" Are there any crocodiles here ? " said Mr. Rogers, to the 
Zulu. 

" No, boss ; no crocodile. All in Limpopo river.** 

** I thought so. Here, Dinny." 

« Yis, sor." 

" Come across directly, man ! There's nothing to be afraid 
of!" 

" Sure, sor, I'm not afraid a bit ! " yelled Dinny. 

" Then come over." 

" If I did, sor, the crockydiles would be ating me, and thin 
what would you do ? " 

" Let me fetch him, father," cried Jack. " I'll wade over." 

" No, let me," said Dick. ** I'm not afraid." 

" I don't think a second wetting will do either of you any 
good," replied their father. '* Here, Dick, take the bay and go 
across, and make the stupid fellow hold on by your stirrup- 
leather. Take care to go straight." 

" Help. What'll I do now ? Are ye going to lave me ?" cried 
Dinny, in piteous tones. 

** He really deserves to be left,** said Mr. Rogers. "We shall 
have to cure him of this cowardice. Go on, Dick." 

Dick leaped into the saddle, touched the willing bay's sides, 
and the horse began to ford the rapid stream, hesitating just a 
trifle as they reached the middle, where the current pressed 
most hardly against his flanks ; but keeping steadily on till he 
was safe across. 

"Ah, Masther Dick, dear 1" whined Dinny. "An* it*s you, 
thin?*' 



AN A WFUL FORD TO CROSS. 59 

** Yes, it's me, my brave Irish boy ! " said Dick. 

" An' ye didn't bring another of the horses for me, sor ? " 

" No, Dinny, I didn't," replied Dick, smiling at the other's 
cowardice. ^' My father said you were to hold on by the stirrup- 
leather." 

" What, and walk acrost ? *' 

•' To be sure." 

" Saints alive ! I daren't do it, Masther Dick, dear. Sure 
the bottom of the say — I mane the river — there's paved wid 
crockydiles ; an' every step I took I could feel them heaving up 
under me." 

•* What, as you were going across, Dinny ? " 

•* Yis, sor. Not as I minded as long as they kep' quiet ; but 
whin one hungry baste laid howlt toight o' me trousers, and 
scratched me leg wid his ugly teeth, I felt that it was time to 
be off back, and I jist escaped." 

" Hoi, there, Dick ! Look sharp ! " 

*• Coming ! " roared Dick. " Now then, Dinny. There are 
no crocodivils here." 

" Hark at him now ! '' cried Dinny. " Why the river swarms 
wid 'em. Did they ate the black boys ? " 

•* No, of course not. What nonsense ! Come, catch hold, 
and let's go." 

" Masther Dick, dear, I've a mother at home in the owld 
country, and if anything was to happen to me, she'd never for- 
give the masther." 

" Catch hold, Dinny. I tell you there's nothing to fear." 

"Sure, Masther Dick, dear, an' I'm not afraid— not the 
laste bit in the worrld ; but I couldn't go across there to-night. 
Wouldn't ye fetch one of the horses, Masther Dick ?" 

" No," cried Dick impatiently. ** I couldn't do that Here, 
111 get down and wade, and you can ride." 

" Thank ye, Masther Dick, dear. Sure, it's an honourable 
gintleman yell make, if ye don't let the crockydivils get ye before 
your time. That's betther," he said, mounting. •* Howlt on 



6o OFF TO THE WILDS. 

very tight to the horse's mane, Masther Dick ; and if ye feel 
one of the bastes feeling and poking ye about wid his nose before 
getting a good grip, jist you call out» and 1*11 put on the speed 
to drag ye away.*' 

" I wouldn't let my feet dabble in the water, Dinny," said 
Dick, wickedly. ''The crocodiles snap at hands or feet held 
over in their track." 

" What'U I do, then ?*' cried Dinny, in alarm. 

" I'd put my feet in my pockets, if I were you," said Dick. 

" Sure, an' it's a boy ye are for a joke, Masther Dick," cried 
Dinny grimly. "I'll howlt me legs up Very high. Ah I what 
are ye shouting about ? We're coming." 

** Make haste there, Dick. Is anything wrong V* 

" No, father ! " shouted back Dick. " There, get along with 
you. Give him his head, Dinny, and hell go straight across." 

" rd better make him canter, hadn't I, Masther Dick, dear ? " 

" Canter ? Nonsense ! Why, the poor thing has enough to 
do to keep his feet walking." 

" Then it isn't safe at all crossing the river, Masther Dick, 
dear. And ah, I daren't go like this, wid me riding the good 
honest baste and you walking. What'U the masther say ? " 

** That you are a terrible coward, Dinny," replied Dick. 

" Be asy, Masther Dick. It isn't being a coward, it's thinking 
av ray poor mother, and taking care of meself for the poor owld 
sowl's sake. Whisht, Masther Dick, dear, jump up behind and 
hold on by me, and the bastell carry us both over." 

" It's rather hard on the horse, Dinny, but I don't want to get 
wet, so here goes. Hold tight." 

Dick took a leap, " fly the garter " fashion, and came down 
astride the bay^ but startling it so that it began to rear and 
plunge. 

" Aisy, Masther Dick, dear, or 111 be off. Be quiet, ye baste. 
What's the matter wid ye ? Quiet, now ! " 

"Is anything the matter there?" came from out of the dark- 
ness across the river. 



AN AWFUL FORD TO CROSS. 6i 

" No-o-o-o ! " roared Dick^ drumming the bay's ribs with his 
heels. •* Trek ! go on, old fellow." 

^ Oh, take care^ Masther Dick, dear, whatever ye do," whined 
Dinny. 

^Oh, 111 take care," cried Dick, assuming the lead, and 
leaning forward so as to get the reins. " There, I'll guide ; you 
hold him tightly with your knees. Go on, bay." 

On went the bay steadily enough ; and there was no disposi- 
tion to waver now, even in the sharpest parts of the stream, 
for the extra weight upon his back made him firmer. But just as 
they reached the middle of the river a mischievous idea entered 
Dick's head, and suddenly with one foot he made a splash, 
while with the other he pressed Dinny's leg against the horse's 
side. 

" Murther I Help ! ** yelled Dinny. " He's got me at last ! " 
and throwing himself in the opposite direction, Dick only 
managed to save himself by nipping the horse. As for Dinny, 
he went head over heels into the running stream, being borne 
back, however, by the current against Dick's legs, when, grasp- 
ing him by the collar, Dick urged the horse on, Dinny supple- 
* menting his young master's hold by a most tenacious grasp, till 
the horse's hoofs began to plash in the shallower water, and 
poor Dinny was dragged out on to dry land. 

** Why, what have you been about, Dinny ?" cried Mr. Rogers 
angrily. " Why didn't you come over with us ?" 

" Sure, sor, I'm kilt entoirely," groaned Dinny, rubbing his 
leg. ** Twice over the savage bastes have had hold of me, and 
if I hadn't thrown meself on the other side of the bay horse, it's 
this minute they'd be ating of me up." 

"Jump up and come along," cried Mr. Rogers. ''It's my 
belief, Dinny, that you are a great coward. Here, make haste, 
the waggon's nearly a mile ahead." 

** Oh, masther, it was a narrow escape," groaned Dinny, who 
did not attempt to move. 

^ It will be a narrower one, Dinny, if you stay there, for the 



62 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



Zulu tells me that this is a favourite spot for lions to lie in wait 
for the bok and zebra that come down to drink." 

•'Oh, masther dear, why didn't ye say so before?" cried 
Dinny, jumping up with alacrity. " Sure Fd be the first to tell 
a man if he was in danger.* 

Mr. Rogers did not reply, but went on with his son, Dinny 
keeping very close behind, till they overtook the waggon just as 
it reached the camping-place, where a fire was soon burning, 
and the oxen contentedly cropping the ample supply of excellent 
grass. 



63 



CHAPTER X. 

A GLORIOUS SIGHT FOR A HUNTER. 

Watch was set in the usual manner, so that the fire might be 
well kept up, and after a good dry, and a hearty meal— such a 
one as is made by those who have toiled all day in the open air— 
those who were at liberty so to do soon sought their blankets, 
and slept soundly and well. 

To Dick and Jack it seemed that they had only just lain 
down, when there was a firm hand laid upon them, and they 
were awakened by the General, who signed to them in the grey 
morning light to get up. 

They crept out of the waggon yawning, but that sign of sloth- 
fiilness was soon chased away, and their father joining them, 
they took their guns and followed the General, leaving Dinny 
with orders to wake the boys, and to get breakfast ready by their 
return. 

"Where are we going, father?" asked Dick. 

** I can't say, my boy. The Zulu awakened me as he did you. 
He has something to show us, I suppose." 

Their way lay up a woodland slope, where the trees had a 
paik-like aspect, and beneath their shade it was still quite dim, 
but here and there they caught glimpses of the sky, which was 
flecked with little clouds of orange, and vermilion, and gold, 
while the light was rapidly growing in the east. 

The General went on rapidly, as if quite sure of his route, 
and it seemed that the point at which he was aiming was the 
highest part of a ridge. 

And so it proved, for when he had reached the sunmiit the 



64 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Zulu chief walked cautiously along for a short distance, and 
then stopped and stooped down, motioning to those who followed 
to do the same. 

They obeyed him implicitly, preparing their pieces at the same 
time. Then creeping up to him cautiously, they found that they 
were on a ridge looking down into a widespread valley, flooded 
with the light of the approaching sunrise. 

It was a glorious scene, and worth all the trouble and patience 
of their long journey to see. It was almost breathlessly that 
they gazed at the broad, grassy valley, with its clumps of trees, 
patches of wood, and portions dotted with masses of rock, whose 
tops were bathed in the amber morning tints, while in the 
direction where the little party gazed the shadows of tree and 
stone lay dark. 

Facing them in the east the clouds were now gorgeous in 
their hues, one layer forming a grand arch of light, towards 
which darted upwards the rays of the coming sun. 

But it was not only the sunrise that was glorious in the 
! extreme, nor the beauty of the broad valley that held the 
spectators' eyes, but the occupants of the scene below. 

The General had undertaken to guide them to what he called 
the great game country, and he had kept his word. For below 
them — to right, to left, and away towards the golden burst of 
glory where the sun was about to rise — the land was literally 
alive with game. 

Down to their right spread broad marshy lagoon after lagoon, 
in which swam, dived or waded, countless ducks and cranes. 
Here, writhing its snaky neck and curious head and beak, was 
the flamingo, all white and rose ; there, soft grey cranes and 
others, with a lovely crest, as if in imitation of the rays of the 
rising sun. 

But it was not the wondrous variety of birds alone that took 
their attention, but the large game, feeding, gambolling, and 
careering in countless herds. To the left were zebras, ana 
beyond some quaggas, or wild asses, the peculiat bray or cry of 



A GLORIOUS SIGHT FOR A HUNTER, 65 

Quay'gakI quay-gah! reaching to their ears. On their right 
there were gnus, or wildebeestes^ as the Boers called them, 
brindled and the blue — curiously fierce-looking little animals, 
partaking both of the character of the deer and the buffalo. 
Some grazed placidly in the morning light, others were engaged 
in tilting at each other with their horns, while their companions 
looked on as if waiting for their turn ; and every now and then 
the sound of the striking horns ascended to the woody ridge with 
a loud crash. 

But while these creatures contended together, groups of 
antelopes were dotted here and there, while others careered at 
lightning speed over the plain. 

The sight was wonderful, and the boys felt as if they would 
never tire of watching the evolutions of the graceful creatures, 
which, with their skins glistening and horns looking golden in 
the morning light, seemed to be going through a series of 
military evolutions with the greatest precision. 

^Koodoo, pronghom," said Mr. Rogers, looking at the herd 
through his glass. "There are a dozen elands too," he con- 
tinued, and then passed the glass to his sons. 

" Oh, this is grand," cried Dick enthusiastically. " I could 
stay here for ever watching the graceful creatures.*' 

** So could I," said Jack, " after breakfast. " I say, father, 
hadn't we better shoot something — the stock's getting low ? " 

"Yes," said Mr. Rogers quietly ; and he longed to go himself 
and bring down a good fat buck for the replenishment of the 
larder ; but the expedition was for his sons, and he gave place to 
them. " Now, Dick," he continued, " here is a chance for you to 
try and stalk one of those hartebeestes ; or better still, a nice fat 
antelope. Pick out one with a fine head of horns, and then aim 
straight at the shoulder, and be sure and bring him down." 

"At what distance would you fire, father ?** asked Dick. 

Td get as close as I could, my boy, but I'd fire at six 
or seven hundred yards sooner than miss a shot. Now 
go." 

P 



66 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Dick crept off, his father giving him a warning word about 
not losing his way, but to impress the land-marks upon his 
memory, so as to recognize them if he went astray. 

As he disappeared down the valley side of the slope, Mr. 
Rogers turned to Jack. 

" Well, my boy, would you like a try as well ? • 

Jack's whole face, as well as his tongue, said yes, and Mr. 
Rogers smilingly pointed down into the valley, in the other 
direction. 

" Be careful," he said, " and don't fire either in our direction 
or in your brother's, for a rifle-bullet flies far." 

"All right, father," cried Jack; and he too crept down the 
slope from bush to bush, to try and stalk one of the bok that 
came nearest to the clump of wood upon his right 

"So this is the game country?" said Mr. Rogers. 

" Yes, boss, this the game country, but only bit outside. I 
show you big game yet^lephant, lion, all the big animal, only 
wait." 

Mr. Rogers was ready to set self aside in every way in his 
efibrts to educate his sons, so he took out his glass and sat down 
beside the General, watching the various herds of wild animals 
in the glowing morning light, and thinking how grateful he 
ought to be to see his boys daily growing in health, strength, 
and confidence. For it was unmistakable ; Dick, the weak, 
half-consumptive lad, was altering rapidly, and the anxious 
father's heart rejoiced as the dark shadow that had hovered over 
his life seemed to be chased away. 

As he sat there thinking, and bringing his glass to bear upon 
the various herds, while waiting for them to take the alarm, he 
could not help feeling that Dick and Jack were managing 
uncommonly well to have gone on so long without alarming the 
game. It showed thoughtfulness, and ability in the hunter's 
craft ; not, of course, that he wished them to turn out hunters, 
but he believed in thoroughness, and he used to say that if it 
was only play it ought to be done welL 



A GLORIOUS SIGHT FOR A HUNTER, 67 

He was letting the glass rest upon his knees, with his eyes 
running dreamily over the landscape, when he became aware of 
the fact that the Zulu was watching him intently, as he sat there 
with a couple of assegais across his knees. 

" I am sorry I was so unjust to him that night," thought Mr. 
Rogers. " It is a pity one's nature prompts one to be so hasty 
and suspicious." 

Then as his eyes met those of the General, as it was fast 
becoming the custom to call him, he cudgelled his brains for 
some way of showing his confidence in him, who was so com- 
pletely their guide. 

Suddenly a soft smile beamed on the Zulu's fierce counte- 
nance, and he said gently, — 

" Boss thinking about his boys. Fine brave boys ; make big 
warriors and chiefs. Zulu wish his boys here too. Love his 
boys same as white man." 

Mr. Rogers stretched out his hand to the Zulu on the instant, 
for he had touched the chord of their common humanity, and 
white man and black man, as their hands joined in one firm 
grip, felt that henceforth they would be friends who could trust 
each other to the end. 

" Look ! " cried the Zulu suddenly ; and he pointed down 
into the plain, where the alarm had been taken in the direction 
taken by Dick. 

Antelopes that had been feeding, suddenly threw up their 
heads and galloped together, seeming to form square — first with 
horns outward to resist attack ; then they reformed, and charged 
in one direction ; halted, turned, and charged in another — as if 
alarmed, and yet not knowing which way to go. 

The wildebeestes that had been fighting stopped, erected their 
tails, pawed the ground, and then, throwing their heads sidewise, 
began to plough it with one horn, but only to snort loudly and 
tear over the plain ; while the zebras and quaggas began to 
toss their heads and tear about over the grassy wild, kicking 
and plunging, and scattering the light antelopes like the wind. 

F Z 



68 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Suddenly there was a puff of smoke from a clump of bushes 
quite a mile away, and after an interval the faint crack of a rifle. 

" That's Dick's gun, General,'* said Mr. Rogers, bringing his 
glass to bear upon a little herd of antelopes that must have 
formed the object of the shot ; but not one of them fell, neither 
did either of them seem to be lamed. 

" Miss, this time," said the General, quietly. 

Just then there was another report, evidently a shot at long 
range ; but the only effect was to drive the game more in the 
direction of Jack's position, or what they supposed to be Jack's 
position. 

Seeing then that Dick was not likely to get another shot, Mr. 
Rogers turned his glass in the other direction ; but there was 
nothing to see but the great herds of game, going more and more 
towards a clump of timber-trees that were of glorious shades of 
green in the morning sun. But, all at once, as a troop of gnus 
were trotting by, three or four large birds came rushing out, as 
if alarmed, and the gnus took fright, tearing off at a frantic pace. 
But before they had gone far there was a white puff of smoke 
from the end of the clump. 

"Well done!" cried Mr. Rogers. "He did well to get so 
far. But it is another miss. We must not depend on the boys 
yet for our dinners." 

The whole plain seemed to be now alive, and herd after herd 
of game, that had been hidden from them by the trees, had 
rushed into sight, and was now careering onward, and away 
from the dangerous proximity to the woods. 

" Poor boys I All their trouble for nothing," said Mr. Rogers, 
closing his glass. ^' I wish I had gone too. I might have hit 
something." 

" Boss Jack has hit," said the Zulu, pointing. 

And just then, to the father's great delight, he saw one of the 
curious antelopes suddenly stop short, the rest of the herd gal- 
loping onwards. Then it shook its head, turned, and seemed 
giddily to gallop back, and finally fell dead. 



A GLORIOUS SIGHT FOR A HUNTER. 69 

Almost at the same moment they saw Jack run out from the 
clump of timber, gun in one hand, cap in the other, which latter 
he began to wave frantically above his head. 

" Well done, boy I A good shot," cried Mr. Rogers. " Ah, 
there's Dick." 

For Dick now showed himself, a mile away to the left, and 
began to cross the open to join his brother, whose success he 
must have seen. 

** The next thing is to get the game home,** said Mr. Rogers. 
** We'll go back, and send Peter and Dirk." 

He placed a shrill little whistle to his lips as he spoke, and as 
its piercing note rang out, the boys, who had been making for 
the fallen gnu, turned to come back. 

* 111 go,*' said the General. " Mustn't leave the game. Look, 
boss." 

He pointed, and in the distance there was a great vulture 
winging its way towards the fallen gnu ; and, directly after, 
another and another came into sight, sailing heavily along upon 
its g^at dusky flapping wings. 

It seemed as if telegrams had been sent in all directions to 
the vultures' roosting-places that there had been a wildebeeste 
slain ; and it was so evident that, if steps were not taken to save 
it, the vultures would destroy the provisions of three or four 
days, that Mr. Rogers rapidly blew twice upon his whistle — a 
preconcerted signal, which made the boys turn and go towards 
the game. 

As it was, a vulture would have reached the fallen animal 
before them but for a shot from Dick's gun, which had the 
effect of more than scaring it as it was just alighting, for, 
evidently hit by the bullet, it flew a few yards, and then fell, 
flapping its wings for a few moments, and then lay still. 

This checked the others for the time, and Mr. Rogers waited 
till the General should set the boys at liberty, when he meant to 
return to the waggon. 



70 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



CHAPTER XL 

GETTING INTO WORK. 

It seemed some little time before the Zulu appeared at the 
bottom of the slope ; but when he emerged from the woods, Mr. 
Rogers could see that he had been cutting some sticks, and on 
bringing the glass to bear he made out that the Zulu was 
straightening them as he ran. 

The boys saw him coming, and waved their caps ; while, when 
the General joined them, they all bent over the game together, 
the Zulu apparently being very busy, and making Mr. Rogers 
impatient, for he wanted to get back to breakfast, which must 
then be ready. 

" There is some reason for it, I dare say,'* said Mr. Rogers, 
gazing through his glass. " Why, they are all coming away ! 
The animal will be devoured. It is bad, perhaps." 

He waited patiently, seeing the little party return ; and as 
they left the fallen gnu he saw the vultures come dropping 
down from the trees where they had been waiting, till there were 
over twenty by the game, round which they formed a circle, but 
they did not approach near. 

" Strange !'* thought Mr. Rogers. ** I wonder they don't 
tear it up. Perhaps it is still alive. If so they ought to have 
put the poor thing out of its misery. I shall speak sharply to 
Master Dick about such wanton cruelty." 

Mr. Rogers wanted his breakfast, and, as he had had no ex- 
citement, he felt cross, so that it seemed as if the boys would 
get what Jack irreverently called a wigging. But the sight of 
his sons' bright excited faces as they ran up the slope, di'ove 
away his ill-hamour. 



GETTING INTO WORK. 71 



"Why, Dick ! " he cried, "how you run ! " 

" Do I, father ?" cried the boy, excitedly, " But did you sec 
what a splendid shot Jack made ? I missed twice, but he 
brought his gnu down. It's a fine young bull." 

" Then you are not jealous of his luck ? " said his father. 

" Oh, no," laughed Dick. " It will be my turn next time.'* 

" Bravo, Jack ! '* cried Mr. Rogers. ** But why did you leave 
the game to the vultures ? Dick says it was a fine young 
buU.» 

" Oh, it's all right, father," cried Jack, who now ran panting 
up to his father's side. " The General has cut it up partly, 
and has brought the liver and kidneys, and a bit or two to 
cook for breakfast.'' 

" But it was a pity to leave so much good meat, my boys ; 
I don't like wanton waste." 

"But it's all right, father," said Dick. "The General has 
stuck some pieces of wood round and over it, and he says the 
vultures won't go near it for hours, for fear it should be a 
trap." 

Mr. Rogers opened his glass, and looked at the fallen game ; 
and sure enough there sat the vultures in a ring, contem- 
plating the sticks that the General had stuck up round it, 
but not one went near. 

The Zulu smiled as he came up, bearing the delicate por- 
tions of the gnu skewered upon one of his assegais ; and hurry- 
ing back to the camp, Peter and Dirk were given full 
directions which way to go, and sent off with three oxen, and 
a roughly-contrived carriage for the game formed by cutting 
down a great forked branch of a tree to attach to the oxen 
yokes. But when ready for starting they suggested the advisa- 
bility of their having guns, which being supplied, they started 
off, looking rather longingly though at the preparations for 
breakfast. 

A good fire was burning, and coffee was made, Dinny looking 
very disconsolate and miserable ; but the sight of the fresh meat 



72 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

seemed to do him good, for a broad grin expanded his features, 
and getting the frying-pan out of the box that held the cooking 
apparatus, he soon had some savoury morsels peppered, salted, 
and sputtering on the fire. 

** I feel as if I could eat heaps," said Jack. " Oh, I say, 
father, isn't breakfast lovely out here under these green trees ? *' 

Mr. Rogers agreed that it was ; and certainly nothing could 
have been more glorious than the scene — the deep blue sky, 
the glorious sunshine, the bright green of the trees, the chirping, 
whistling, and screaming of the birds that thronged the brambles, 
and above all the delicious fragrance of the endless flowering 
shrubs and flowers. 

It was all enjoyable in the extreme, the abundant breakfast 
adding wonderfully to the pleasure. Even the oxen and horses 
seemed perfectly happy, for there was an abundance of short, 
sweet grass for them to crop, while the little Zulu party seemed 
happiness itself. 

A goodly portion of the gnu had been given over to the 
General, and despising the frying-pan, he and his boys toasted 
the pieces of flesh in the fire, and ate them hissing hot ; the effect 
upon Coffee being that he did nothing but grin, and rub the 
portion of his brown person which he called his ** tum-tum," 
while his brother gave vent to his excitement and pleasure 
by either lying down and rolling himself over and over, or 
else by trying to stand upon his head, a very agreeable style of 
acrobatic trick, but decidedly inconvenient at breakfast-time. 

As, however, just when he had arrived at a perfect equilibrium, 
and had his heels straight up in the air, he overbalanced him- 
self, and instead of coming back upon his toes he went over 
upon his heels, which he planted in the hot ashes. Chicory 
thought the performance had gone sufficiently far, and went on 
eating his breakfast in what Dinny called a more Chrishtanly- 
like way. 

Just as they had finished, and Jack had thoroughly recovered 
from a violent fit of coughing and choking, consequent upon 



GETTING INTO WORK. 



/3 



seeing Chicory stick his heels in the fire, while he — ^Jack — was 
drinking his coffee, there came from behind them the crack of a 
whip) and Peter's harsh voice shouting, " Trek, boys ! trek ! " 
accompanied by the rustling, scrambling noise made by a great 
branch being dra^^-n over the ground ; and directly after the 
slow, patient oxen came into sight, chewing away at their cuds, 
as they used their tails to whisk away the flics, and dragged 
Jack's game into camp. 

It proved to be a splendid young gnu, and the boys examined 
«nth curiosity its shaggy head, with its curiously bent down and 
curved up horns, and general likeness to horse, antelope, and 
bully as if it were related to each. Then the Zulu, with Dirk's 
help, rapidly skinned it ; portions were set apart for immediate 
use, some of the best cut up in strips by the General, and hung 
in the sun upon the bushes to form what is called *' beltong," that 
is, strips of sun-dried meat, the sun baking it up so quickly that 
it has not time to go bad, and the rest was left for ano:hcr 
fate. 

For it was most amusing to watch the dogs, sitting all four in 
a row, hungrily looking at the skinning and cutting up of the 
gnu. They watched with the most intense interest the whole 
process, following the General to and fro, and thankfully swallow- 
ing any scraps he threw them. 

When the skin was taken off and spread upon the waggon-tilt 
to dry, Pompey, Ca:sar, and Crassus followed, as if to sec that it 
was properly spread out, Rough'un being the only one who 
protested against the plan, for his look plainly said that he 
wanted to lick that skin on the fleshy side ; and as he was 
not allowed to go through that process, he kept uttering low, 
dissatisfied whines, to Jack's great delight ; while, when he saw 
Peter climb up, and Dirk hand him the skin, he uttered a 
yell of disappointment at what he evidently considered to be 
the waste of so much good fat. 

This yell from Rough'un had its effects upon Pompey, Cxsar, 
and CrassuSy which triumvirate did not behave at all after the 



74 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

— — ¦ ¦- — ^^^— 

manner of the stolid, patient, noble Romans whose names they 
bore ; but one and all set up their noses as high as they could, 
getting mouth and throat in a direct line, and sang a trio — but 
so dolefully out of tune, that Dinny picked up the General's 
assegai, and gave each one a tap on the head with the 
handle. 

At least he meant to do so. He certainly hit Pompey and 
Caesar sounding cracks ; but Crassus made a movement, and 
received his blow on the neck — so unfair a place, he evidently 
supposed, that it roused his temper, and he snapped at and 
seized the handle of the assegai in his teeth. 

Now Dinny's hands were greasy with helping to skin the 
gnu, and the handle of the assegai kept slipping through his 
fingers, and threatening to cut them against the blade ; to avoid 
which, as the dog tu^^ged fiercely and dragged at the handle, 
Dinny kept taking a fresh hold hand over hand, as if he were 
hauling rope, abusing the dog at the same time. 

" Ah, get out, ye dirty baste,'' he cried. " Let go, will ye ? " 

Worry ! worry ! worry ! growled Crassus, holding on with all 
his might of jaw, which was really great ; and seeing the success- 
ful effort made by their companion, Pompey and Caesar began 
to bark and bay at Dinny on either side of Crassus. 

** Oh, here's a game, Dick ! " cried Jack, holding his sides and 
laughing. 

" Call 'em off, will ye ?" cried Dinny. "Ah, get out, ye dirty, 
yelping bastes." 

" Serve you right, for hitting them in that cruel way," said 
Dick cynically ; while seeing the fun, as they seemed to consider 
it. Coffee and Chicory each seized his kiri, and began to perform 
a war-dance round Dinny and the dogs. 

" Lave go, will ye ? " cried Dinny to Crassus. " Sure it's a taste 
of the other end I'll be giving ye dreckerly." 

Crassus evidently believed him, for he held on all the tighter. 
Dinny dragged hard, but the dog's jaws had closed upon the 
i¥Ood like a steel trap, and though Dinny dragged him here and 



GETTING INTO WORK, 75 

there, he did not leave go ; and so sure as the man began to 
obtain a little advantage, Pompey and Caesar made such a 
desperate attack upon his rear that he immediately lost ground, 
and the French and English tug-of-war continued, the dogs 
barking, Dinny abusing them, and the boys, black as well as 
white, shouting with delight. 

This was very good fun for the latter, but anything but plea- 
sant for Dinny. In fact, so bad was his case, and so threatening 
the aspect of the dogs, that any one who would have insured 
the legs of Dinn/s trousers from being torn by the dogs, would 
have been guilty of a very insane act, especially as Rough'un, after 
sitting up on end encouraging Crassus to hold on to the assegai 
staff by a loud bark now and then, suddenly took it into his head 
to join in the fray. 

For Dinny had not been particularly friendly to him since 
they started. Upon one occasion Dinny had tickled him — so 
he called it — with Peter's whip, the tickling consisting in giving 
the dog so severe a flick that it seemed like taking out a piece 
of the flesh ; while no later than that morning Rough'un felt 
that he had been misused in the matter of the skin that he 
wanted to lick. 

So, unable to bear matters any longer, Rough'un, who had 
momentarily grown more excited, suddenly made an open- 
mouthed onslaught upon the assegai stock. 

** Carl him off, Masthcr Dick, Masther Jack. Oh, murther, 
whatll I do. Ah ! get out— get— " 

Dinny said no more, but loosed his hold of the assegai, and 
fled, leaping on to the front box of the waggon, and then climb- 
ing in beneath the tilt, while the dogs chased him, barking and 
baying him furiously. 

This did not last, however, for the denuding of the gnu's 
bones was pretty well ended, and one of the oxen dragged the 
remains into the forest, when the dogs were called up, and 
Dinny was forgotten. 



76 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XII. 



A BUFFALO RUN. 



The General owned that there would be good hunting here, but 
he wanted to get the party well into the interior, where, taking 
up a central position, they could make excursions in any direc- 
tion according to the way in which the game lay. If they stayed 
where they were, all they would do would be to drive the game 
away, and it would grow more scarce. 

The boys were as eager as the General, and looking upon the 
interior as a land of mystery and romance, they readily backed 
up the proposal to go farther. 

" Well, my boys, I hardly know what to say," replied Mr. 
Rogers. " I want for you both to grow sturdy, manly, and 
inured to danger ; but I scarcely like running the risk of taking 
you where we may be constantly encountering the lion, the 
rhinoceros, and the elephant and hippopotamus." 

** But we shall be very careful,'' said Jack. 

" And we are growing better marksmen every day, father,** 
exclaimed Dick. 

**Yes, my boys, I dare say you are," replied Mr. Rogers. 
'* But please remember that taking aim at and shooting a timid 
deer is one thing ; standing face to face with some fierce beast 
ready to take your life, quite another." 

" Oh, yes, father, I know that," said Jack ; " and I dare say 
I should be horribly frightened, but I wouldn't run away." 

" It might be wiser to do so than to provoke the animal 
by firing," said Mr. Rogers, smiling. "What do you say, 
Dick?" 



A BUFFALO RUN. 77 

*' I say I should like to go on, father, in spite of the risk/' 
replied Dick. " Now we have come so far, I want to see more of 
the wonderful Central African land, and I should like to shoot 
a lion, an elephant, a rhinoceros, and a hippopotamus." 

''And a giraffe, a crocodile, and a boa constrictor," said 
Jack. 

''And would you both like to make that bag in one day, 
young gentlemen ? " said Mr. Rogers, smiling. 

" Ah, now you are laughing at us, father," said Dick. " Of 
course we don't expect to shoot all those creatures, but we 
should like to try." 

"Yes," added Jack; "thafs it, Dick. We should like to 
try." 

•' Then you shall try," said Mr. Rogers, quietly ; " on con- 
dition, mind, that you will neither of you do anything rash, but 
follow out either my advice or that of the General, whom I feel 
disposed to trust more and more." 

The country seemed to grow more romantic and g^nd the 
farther they trekked on away from civilization, and they travelled 
now very few hundred yards without seeing something new and 
full of interest. Game was so abundant that there was no 
difficulty in keeping up a plentiful supply. Dinny even 
threatened to lose the frying-pan, for, as he said, he was frying 
steak morning, noon, and night ; but as he loved dearly to fry 
one particularly juicy piece always for a gentleman named Dinny, 
there was not much fear of his keeping his word. 

But somehow Dinny did not add to the harmony of the ex- 
pedition. He proved himself again and again to be an arrant 
coward ; and, coward-like, he tried to tyrannize over the weaker. 

He was afraid of the General ; and when, upon one or two 
occasions, he had quarrelled with Peter or Dirk, those gentle-, 
men had displayed so much pugnacity that Dinny had pru- 
dently resolved to quarrel with them no more. He, however, 
made up for this by pouring out his virulence upon Coffee and 
Chicory, the dogs having been too much for him ; and the Zulu 



78 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

boys bore it all in silence, but evidently meant to remember 
Dinny's behaviour when the time came. 

One day, soon after entering the game country, the General, 
who was on ahead alternately scanning the horizon and the 
ground, while the oxen slowly lumbered on behind, suddenly 
stopped, and began to examine some footprints in a marshy 
piece of ground which he had just told Dick to avoid. 

" What is it ? *' said Dick, coming up. 

" Look," said the General, pointing to the great footprints. 

" Why, it looks as if a great cat had been here,** said Dick. 

** Yes ; great cat ; lion ! '* said the Zulu. 

And when Mr. Rogers and Jack had cantered up, and seen 
the spoor, as such footprints were generally termed in South 
Africa, they knew that there would be real danger now hovering 
about their nightly camps. 

That afternoon, as they were passing through a woody por- 
tion of the country, Chicory, who was well ahead, assegai in 
hand, eagerly looking out for game, was heard suddenly to yell 
out as if in agony ; and as all ran to his help, he was found to 
be rolling on the ground, shrieking the native word for " Snake I 
snake 1 '* 

Mr. Rogers was the first to reach him, being mounted, and 
as he drew rein by the prostrate boy, he saw a long thin snake 
gliding away. 

He was just in time, and leaning forward he took rapid aim 
with his fowling-piece ; and as the smoke rose, a long thin ash- 
coloured snake was seen writhing, mortally wounded, upon the 
ground. 

The General caught the boy by the shoulder, and proceeded to 
divide his jet-black hair, examining his scalp carefully, but 
without finding any trace of a wound ; though Chicory declared 
that he was killed, and that the snake had seized him by the 
head as he was going under a tree. 

He had felt it, and when he threw himself forward to avoid 
it, the creature writhed and twisted about his neck, till in his 



A BUFFALO RUN. 79 

horror he rolled over and over, partly crushing the reptile, 
which was making its escape when Mr. Rogers's gun put an end 
to its power of doing mischief. 

The General having satisfied himself that his boy was not 
hurt, sent him forward with a cuff on the ear, before giving his 
master a grateful look for destroying a virulently poisonous ser- 
pent—one, he assured them, whose regular practice was to hang 
suspended by the tail from some low branch, and in this posi- 
tion to strike at any living creature that passed beneath. 

" He would have been dead now," said the General, " if the 
snake's teeth had gone through his hair." 

It was with no little satisfaction then, after this adventure, 
that the hunting-party passed through the woody region they 
were then in, and came into the open, for during the last few 
hours everybody's eyes had been diligently directed at the over- 
hanging branches of the trees, Dinny being so observant that 
he two or three times tripped over prostrate boughs, and went 
down upon his nose. 

As they passed out into the open they were in a rough plain, 
covered as far as they could see with coarse herbage ; and 
hardly had the waggon emerged before Mr. Rogers, who was 
using his glass, drew the General's attention to some dark objects 
upon a slope some distance ahe^d. 

The Zulu glanced at the dark shapes for a few moments, and 
then cried eagerly, — 

"Buffalo!" 

^ Come along, Dick," shouted Jack. 

'* Stop, stop ! " exclaimed their father. " What are you going 
to do V 

" Shoot a buffalo, father." 

" If we can," added Dick. 

** But you must be careful. These buffalo are pretty fierce 
creatures, and dangerous at times." 

" Yes, very dangerous," assented the Zulu. •' Boss Jack — 
Boss Dick shoot one, and the boys drive one to him." 



u 



'IFF Ti rsx WriLUS, 



Tjk GgremT mfffmyi nij^ 3x <sa Tiff jesc 3t 3bs lig sns 
<snt: It isBi^r^ 3fr:. l>Ty*rF innsBnesL 3i !g: jienr jrt :: jqi£ sum. 
atisrv^BTCs^ Ixssnig' Tnuip ms g£ans. :ne d^^nernT ^»giar>twf liE-m^t, 
^is iffi^j<i^ jmmiin^ xui: x ;zxiizs& inr Tack sul Hick 3z txaic iniim 

TMs ^ej xzzcDcrsaixic m* & = unf 35*37- :5e«- LHi i rreiL 5k his 
^rsssixau 1^ <GdaeE3£ axi£ 3is 0115$ jTrimr or jminiBT: sr ss 
Si {IS ^iTiTgif x£ "fiB!- rurrif. anf isfiL ^iiw "'iifTHHifiwg&. iai£ '^^iifi), 
:Sgr qgissgrf^ -wanif «gr»g Amr amn:APik :3e ynnr g: Bui i im a> , 

AH !3r3at vox. rBanrrV as soriicnaasi. ETtdk joil J; 






txtL -:£ i^ssLoq t^tsz. "infrg ^kss a liaw rnsinrig saxmi ss 3^ •^s* 
zxacjt lA 'Jvxuix — C3IQE a r:^. ever oxcr^ssn^ mc^ x wcss Se 

nxrpriiitu^ ifut uvvi 3s. icse, hf rhrrr mnmVr. S3» z^uc qSkt lad 



l*«r> J ^ «.«»Mi 



•3f 



Tie t)»i> r3£-saocs pparifC ar:mcgg like ciae, apg, tj> Ae Ae^hi <af 
t^b0«^f&)e7Si£v tbeTtiQBS^bcI ebey bad ^uc sci^gscr iomil 

'^Hcnar! Fnst bcaalo r'cned Jack; aitd usgc&ker tlie boys 
catsieitd cat exo ihe piaia, vlaen, to t2iGr iaTmsc av.wiTslima tty 
irmr?4 of die bod i tma'inmng its fiigttt, aboot a doaen bolls 
stopped sbort, sored at tbeni, pa««d tbe gTOGrad. s£ack lip tbcir 
taiSSy wbcckd roaDd, ntteied a 6enDe roar, and dsaz^ed. 

Even if tbeboTsbad felt disposed to meet tbesr CDeaaies witb 
a ONiple more sbou^ <^ ^^^^^ would not bave stood ssOL They 



A BUFFALO RUN. 8i 

were well-broken and trusty ; day by day they had seem^ to 
gain confidence in their riders, and they would stand perfectly 
still if their bridles were drawn over their heads and allowed to 
trail upon the ground ; while if Jack or Dick liked to make a 
rifle-rest of their backs, they were perfectly content, and stood 
as rigidly as if carved out of stone. 

But there are bounds even to the confidence of a horse. 
When the little steeds saw the fierce looks of the buffaloes, 
heard their angry bellowings, and found that with waving tails, 
menacing horns, and hoofs that seemed to thunder as they tore 
up the ground, the bulls were coming nearer and nearer, and 
evidently with the full intent of burying those sharp horns in 
their chests. Shoes and Stockings snorted violently, turned round 
so suddenly that had not Jack and Dick been excellent horse- 
men they would have been thrown, and tore away over the 
plain. 

This was a reverse of circumstances ; and naturally feeling 
startled at such a change, their boys gave their horses their heads 
sat well down, and kept giving furtive glances behind to see if 
the bulls were gaining upon them. 

At the end of a few moments, though, it occurred to Dick 
that their speed was greater than that of the buffaloes, and con- 
sequently that they would have no difficulty, failing accidents, 
in galloping away. Then he began to think of his rifle and 
ammunition, but felt that under the circumstances fire-arms 
were useless. 

Last of all he began to feel very much ashamed of his posi- 
tion, in being hunted like this. 

The same feeling seemed to have affected Jack, who looked 
at his brother as they raced on side by side. 

llie consequence was that all of a sudden they both sat up 
more erect in their saddles, and took a pull at the reins, bring- 
ing Shoes and Stockings by degrees into a hand gallop, instead 
of the ventre h terre progress they were making before. 

^ This won't do," cried Dick, as he glanced back to find that 

G 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




thebulls were stilllumbering on behind them, snorting savagely, 
and shaking tbeir horo-arnied fronts. 



A BUFFALO RUN. 83 

"No,*" said Jack, "we are taking them right down on the 
waggon, and they'll charge straight over the camp." 

" Yes ; let* s turn off to the left," shouted Dick ; and as if by 
one impulse they wheeled round to the left, and galloped on 
over the plain. " I tell you what,^' he cried, as a happy idea 
struck him ; '* let's wheel round to the right now." 

•* What for ? '' shouted back his brother. 

''So as to ride round and round the waggon in a circle. 
Father will bring one or two of them down." 

For answer Jack wheeled to the right, and if the manoeuvre 
had been kept up it would have answered; but, as it hap- 
pened» Mr. Rogers had gone away from the waggon in search 
of some beautifully plumaged birds which had settled in the 
trees above the camp, and then gone on to a grove a mile or 
so away. 

The General and his boys were of course far away out on the 
plain, where they had been driving the buffalo, and therefore 
Dinny was the principal man in camp. 

He was busy with the frying-pan frizzling himself a venison 
steaky when, hearing the thunder of hoofs, he dropped the pan 
in the wood ashes, and stood staring with horror. 

" Whatll I do now ? " he cried. 

Then a bright idea seized him, and pulling his knife from 
bis belt, he dashed at the place where his enemies the dogs 
were tied up by stout thongs to the waggon wheels, and divided 
them one by one. 

*• There, ye bastes,** he cried, ** be off and get tossed." And as 
the dogs rushed q% delighted with their freedom, Dinny chose 
what he thought was the safest place in the camp, namely, the 
space between the four wheels beneath the waggon, and there 
lay down and wished himself back safely in his mother's 
cabin. 

The dogs had been for some moments past tearing at their 
thongs to get away, so that no sooner were they freed than, 
barking and baying fiercely, they raced down after the buffa- 

G 2 



84 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

loes, and Dinny never did a better act in his life. Certainly it 
was prompted by cowardice ; but it had its good fruits, for it 
was the saving of poor Dick's life. 

The boys had galloped on as had been suggested, gradu- 
ally inclining to the right, so that they drew the little herd 
of bulls into following them in a circle ; and in this way they 
had nearly gone round the waggon at about a couple of hun- 
dred yards' distance, wondering why their father did not shoot, 
when, all at once, just as the baying of the dogs reached their 
ears, Dick turned a piteous look at his brother. 

"Tm— I'm not strong, yet, Jack,** he faltered. "Ride on 
fast." 

To Jack's horror he saw his brother's eyes close, and that 
he fell forward upon his horse's neck ; the next moment he had 
glided as it were out of his saddle, and fallen — his horse, from 
its good training, stopping short by his side. 

The buffaloes were only about thirty yards behind, and as 
Jack reined in, and turned to help his brother, the bulls lowered 
their horns, and in another moment or two they would have 
been trampled and gored, perhaps killed ; but just as the great 
shaggy animals were upon them, the dogs made their attack, 
Pompey, Caesar, and Crassus each seizing a bull by the lip, 
while Rough'un kept up a furious barking as he tore at the 
various animals' heels. 

The effect was magical upon the buffaloes, which tossed their 
heads furiously in the air, and dislodging their assailants, turned 
and rushed off, with the dogs now biting their heels or leaping 
viciously at their flanks, all attack now being changed to 
flight. 



€€ 



CHAPTER XIIL 



OOMPH ! OOMPH ! OOMPH !" 



€t 



Are you much hurt, Dick ? " cried Jack anxiously, as he knelt 
on one knee by his brother. 

•* No, I think not," panted Dick, opening his eyes. " I came 
over all giddy, and couldn't sit my horse. Did he throw 
me?" 

" No : you fell.*' 

" But where are the buffaloes ? " 

" Yonder they go," replied Jack. *' Don't you hear the dogs ? 
There, lean on me, and let's walk in to the camp." 

** Oh, no," cried Dick. " I'm better now." 

** No, no ; don't try to mount." 

*• Yes, I shall," was the reply. " I was overdone from being 
weak ; but Vm better now, and I'm going with you to bring in 
the buffalo we shot." 

** Oh no, Dick, don't try," cried his brother anxiously. 

But Dick would not be persuaded, and, mounting his horse, 
he rode with his brother up to the waggon, gave the necessary 
instructions to Peter and Dirk, and in a few moments those 
sable gentlemen were leading a small ox team over the plain 
to where the General and his boys were busily dressing the 
fallen bull ; and by the time Mr. Rogers reached the waggon, 
the choicest parts of the buffalo were there, the remainder 
having been left for the vultures and wild creatures of the 
plain. 

They trekked on for some miles that evening, and soon after 
sundown halted by the side of a wood, whose edges were com- 



86 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

posed of dense thorns, and here, at the General's suggestion, alT 
set to work, after the waggon had been drawn up in a suitable 
position, to cut down the bushes so as to make a square patch, 
with the dense thorns on three sides and the waggon on the 
fourth, the lower part of the waggon being fortified with the 
bushes that were cut down. 

The object was to form a sound enclosure, which was duly 
strengthened, so as to protect the horses and bullocks from the 
wild beasts that haunted the neighbourhood. 

It was very hard work, and Dinny grumbled terribly, till Dick 
said quietly to his brother, in Dinny*s hearing, — 

" I wonder that Dinny don't work harder. The General says 
this part swarms with lions ; and they'll be down upon us before 
weVe done if he don't make haste." 

Dinny seemed to be turned for the moment into stone, at the 
bare mention of the word lion; but directly after he was toiling 
away with feverish haste, and in quite a state of excitement, 
bullying Coffee and Chicory for not bringing in more dead wood 
for the fire. 

By dint of all working hard, however, a satisfactory place 
was contrived, into which, after a good long feed, and a hearty 
drink of fresh water from a bubbling stream, the bullocks and 
horses were shut, the horses having a division of their own, 
where they would be safe from the horns of their friends as 
well as the teeth and claws of their enemies. Then the blazing 
fire in front of the waggon was utilized for cooking purposes, 
and buffalo steaks and thick rich soup from Dinn/s big pot 
soon restored the losses felt by the little party in their arduous 
evening toil. 

The waggon was on the very edge of the forest, and a 
couple of trees stood out on either side, spreading their branches 
over it as shelter, while the ruddy fire that was being steadily 
fed to get it into a good glow, with a bright blaze free from the 
blinding smoke emitted by burning wood, seemed to turn the 
waggon and trees into gold. 



''OOMPH! OOMPH! OOMPH f"" 87 

** 111 take the first watch, my boys," said Mr. Rogers, who, 
after their hearty supper, had read his sons a lecture about the 
necessity for care in hunting, •* for," said he, '* but for the doga 
your lives would certainly have been sacrificed.** 

** Yes, father, well be more careful ; but how is it the dogs 
have not come back ? " 

** They overtook and pulled down one of the buffaloes," said 
Mr. Rogers. ''They will glut themselves, and, after a long 
sleep, take up our trail and follow us. I dare say they'll be here 
to-morrow. 

The boys, who were fagged out, gladly crept into the waggon, 
the last thing they saw being Dinny putting some pieces of 
buffalo flesh and half a pail of water in the big pot, so as to 
let it stew by the fire all night. Then they drew up the canvas 
curtains of their tent-bed as they called it, leaving Mr. Rogers 
and Peter to keep up the fire, and to call them in four hours' 
time, the boys having begged that they might keep one of the 
watches together. 

They were fast asleep directly, and in five minutes' time — so 
Jack declared — Mr. Rogers aroused them to relieve guard. 

** Come, boys," he said, "be quick. Do you know how long 
you've been asleep ? " 

*• Five minutes," said Jack, sleepily. 

** Nearly ^y^ hours, sir." 

" Tlien they weren't good measure," grumbled Jack. 

"There's plenty of wood, Dick," said Mr. Rogers, "and I'd 
keep up a good blazing fire. I have not heard a sound ; but if 
you are alarmed, a piece of blazing wood thrown in the direc- 
tion is better than firing at random ; but keep your rifles 
ready." 

These words drove drowsy sleep from the boys' eyelids, and 
clambering out of the waggon, the fresh cold night air finished 
the task. 

They saw Mr. Rogers climb into the waggon and their black 
followers crawl under it ; then taking the rifles, they saw to 



88 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

there being a ball cartridge in each, and big slugs in the shot 
barrel ; and after throwing on a few sticks to make the firte 
blaze, they walked slowly up and down. 

" How dark and strange the forest looks, Jack,** said Dick. 
" I say, Fm not ashamed to say that it does make one feel timid/' 

*' It makes two feel timid,** said Jack, sturdily. ^ Look at the 
dark shadows the fire throws. Why it almost looks as if there 
were all sorts of horrible creatures watching us. If I didn't feel 
that father had been sitting here watching, and wasn't afraid 
rd give it up.'* 

'' Perhaps he did feel afraid," said Dick. 

" Not he,'' said Jack sturdily. ** If he had felt afraid, he 
wouldn't have let us watch here.'' 

** Oh, yes, he would," said Dick thoughtfully. ** Father wants 
us to grow up manly and strong, and ready to laugh at what 
would alarm some lads. Hark 1 what's that ? " 

He caught his brother's arm, for just then, apparently from 
beneath their feet, they heard a peculiar noise. 

** Oomph ! oomph ! • oomph ! ^ a peculiar, vibrating, shudder- 
ing, deep-toned cry, which seemed to make the air, and the very 
earth beneath them, vibrate. 

There was no mistaking it Over and over again they had 
heard Coffee and Chicory imitate the cry ; but how pitiful their 
attempts seemed now, as compared to the noise heard there 
in the solemnity of the silent night I 

** Oomph ! oomph I oomph ! " a peculiar grunting, shudder- 
ing roar, which made a perfect commotion in the strongly 
made cattle kraal or enclosure, the oxen running about in 
their dread, and the horses whinnying and stamping upon the 
hard ground. 

" How close is it I " whispered Jack, stretching out his hand 
to get hold of his rifle. 

" I don't know. It seems sometimes just by this patch of 
bushes, and sometimes ever so far away. Hark! there's 
another.'' 



« OOMPH! OOMPH! OOMPH! » 89 



" Yes, and another.** 

•* Or is it all made by one lion ?*' said Dick. 

** I don't know,** replied Jack, in an awe-stricken whisper. 

'*' Shall we call father, and tell him there are lions about ? '* 

•* No," said Dick sturdily. " He'd laugh at us for cowards. 
We've got to get used to lions, Jack ; and it's our own doing — 
we wanted to come." 

*• Yes, but I didn't know they'd come so close," replied Jack. 
« Hark at that ! " 

There was a deep- toned quivering roar, apparently from the 
other side of the fire, and Dick felt his heart beat rapidly as he 
threw a handful of small twigs upon the fire to make it blaze 
up. 

*• Let's go and talk to the horses,*' he said. " Yes ; that's 
right," for Jack had also added an armful of dry wood to the fire, 
which now blazed up merrily. 

They went to the thorny hedge which protected the horses, 
and on making their way through to where they were haltered 
to a pole, carried on the waggon for the purpose, they found the 
poor creatures trembling, and with dripping flanks, while when 
they spoke to them they rubbed their noses against their 
masters' hands, and whinnied with pleasure, as if comforted 
by the presence of the boys. 

** What's that, Dick?" cried Jack excitedly, for there was a 
crashing noise as if something had leaped at the hedge. 

The answer came in the panic of the bullocks and the dread 
of the horses ; and, without hesitating, Jack lowered his piece in 
the direction of the sound, to fire both barrels rapidly one after 
the other. 

There was a savage roar for response, and a rush as of some 
creature bounding through the bushes. Then all was silent 

" I wonder whether I hit him," said Jack, proceeding to throw 
out the empty cartridges and reload. 

'* Is anything wrong ? Shall I come ? " shouted Mr. Rogers, 
firom within the waggon. 



90 OFF TO THE WILDS 

•*No, father," replied Dick steadily. "You needn't come. 
We only fired at a lion.** 

But as they reached the fire again, a tall dark figure crawled 
to their side, and nodded to them gravely. 

*' Plenty of lion here. I stop and help you." 

It was the General, and glad enough the boys were of his 
company. 

Almost before they had seated themselves they heard a 
sound on the right, and taking a burning stick from the fire 
the General whirled it in the direction, the wood blazing up in 
its rapid passage through the air, and falling amongst some dry 
grass, which it set on fire, to burn for a few moments vividly, and 
then leave the surroundings apparently darker than before. 

/ s the burning brand fell in the forest there was an angry 
snail, and these snarls were repeated again and again as from 
time to time the General skilfully threw the wood wherever 
his quick ears told him there was one of the lurking beasts. 

* Is there more than one lion ? " said Dick, in a whisper at 
last. 

" Three, four, five," said the General. They want horse or 
bullock. Hist ! look ! see ! " 

He pointed to a dark patch at the edge of the forest, where, 
upon Dick directing his eyes, he could see nothing ; but the 
next moment there was the reflection of the fire to be seen in a 
couple of glaring orbs. 

•* Can you shoot him } " said the General. 

" Let me try, Dick. My hand's steady," whispered Jack. '* I 
think I could hit him." 

" Go on," was the whispered reply. 

To fire it was necessary for Jack to take aim across the Zulu, 
who leaned forward so that the barrel of Jack's rifle rested upon 
his shoulders; while, kneeling, the boy took along and careful aim, 
right between the two glowing orbs, and drew trigger. There was 
the sharp report, a furious roar, a rush, the falling of some 
heavy body, and the scattering of the fire-brands. Then all was 



''OOMPH! OOMPH! OOMPH!'' 



91 



silent ; and they rapidly collected the scattered embers to make 
the fire blaze up again ; for the lions, far from being scared by 
the noise of the shot, renewed their awe-inspiring ** Oomph ! 
oomph ! " on all sides ; and the fear of the cattle was such that 
they threatened to break out of the kraal. 

Again Mr. Rogers roused himself, and asked if there was any 
need for him to come. But Dick replied steadily that there was 
not — ^feeling as he did pretty confident, in spite of his dread, that 
they could keep the lions at bay. 

The fire blazed up so brightly, that the boys glanced anxiously 
at the supply of wood, thinking of the hours they had yet to 
pass before daylight* and what would be the consequences if the 
fire went out. 

One thing was very certain, and that was that a large fire 
would be necessary now every night And though the boys felt 
a strange kind of tremor as they felt the risks they were incur- 
ring, there was so much romantic excitement in the life they 
were leading, that they would not have given it up on any con- 
aeration. 

The lions roared and prowled about them during the re- 
iwflinH^r of the night, sometimes coming very close, sometimes 
retreating, for the fire was very bright. And then came the two 
boys. Coffee and Chicory, with Peter the driver, to relieve them, 
just as day was breaking, and the young travellers gladly went 
back into the waggon for a sleep. 



92 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



CHAPTER XIV. 

TRACKED BY AN ENEMY. 

They did not have a long sleep, for Mr. Rogers soon roused 
them to say that breakfast was ready ; which meal being dis- 
cussed, the oxen were inspanned, and the horses mounted, so 
as to have a good long trek towards the Limpopo, or Crocodile 
River, before the heat of the day. 

Before leaving their camp the boys had a good look round 
with the General, in the expectation and hope of seeing the lion 
at which Jack had shot, lying dead. But though he felt certain 
that he had hit the monster, and though footprints were about 
in all directions, there was no dead lion, and they had to hope 
for better luck the next time. 

" I don't care," said Jack discontentedly ; ** Pm as sure as 
can be that this gun don*t shoot straight." 

•* Try again, Jack," said his father, laughing. 

And on they walked, over what was now a plain covered with 
great coarse, reedy grass, such as would afford plenty of cover 
for game. 

This, however, was scarce, and beyond the boys knocking 
down three or four large birds of the partridge kind, there was 
very little done. 

The General) for some reason which he did not explain, had 
taken his great Zulu shield from where it hung behind one of 
the waggon wheels, and, armed with a couple of assegais, kept 
making expeditions to right and left — and quite as often hung 
back, watchfully keeping an eye to the rear. 

It was a case of man's cunning against that of a beast ; and 



THACKED BY An ENEHY. 



\-^^^^^J^. 


-- . - -- 




'^^^^^ .^Ite 


fiSTTi 


' ¦'% 


i^il^-^^ .'ffl 


i^ . 




iSMiU\l\vx^» 


' AF 


w"tiJ-^ 


wmm^:^ 


.^># 




•'%^^&-<5 


#v5*-^ 


: '^- 


-^' '>: ^ •v'xv.x"/ ¦NJSv 


vv>^- - 




^>^' ¦- _, \\ it- v^ 




^T 


'-¦"^^' ,'*"""'j:»i 


^-«l>.' '¦¦¦" 


-<. 


r":^-''-^^^ 


•!k-^ ^ 


>^ 


'"t*^ 


#^ 


k 



AN AWKWARD P 



jfter being away some hours, he came up with the not very 
pleasant infonnaiion that a huge lion, one of the ferocious laaAK- 



94 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

less kind, was tracking the waggon, and would no doubt hang 
upon their trail until it had pounced upon one of the horses, and 
carried it ofil 

"Oh, that would be horrible,'' cried Jack. **rd almost 
sooner that he would take me than my horse.** 

" Have you seen it, General ? " said Dick ; " or do you think 
it is following us, from its footprints ? " 

** I have seen it," said the General gravely. " I felt sure from 
some footmarks I had seen that some g^eal 3east was following 
us— one of those that scented the horses last night. Once or 
twice I thought the steps might be those of some lion that had 
passed this way ; but, after watching, I found them so often that 
at last I lay down amongst the long grass, covered myself with 
my shield, and waited. It was very, very long, and nothing 
came, and I thought again that I was mistaken ; but I knew 
that if it was a lion, tracking down the horses and bullocks, he 
would come close between the wheel marks of the waggon, and 
there slay." 

''And did you mean to kill him. General?" said Dick 
eagerly. 

'' One man cannot kill a lion with an assegai, Boss Dick," 
said the Zulu, *' and live afterwards and hunt with his friends. 
It takes the little bullet from a gun to kill a lion well, for you 
can stand and shoot farther off than a lion can spring. No, I 
only wanted to know and be sure ; and if I was sure I said, Boss 
Dick or Boss Jack will shoot him. So I waited till I thought 
he would not come, and then I was going to follow the waggon, 
when I heard something come steal — steal — steal along ; and 
when at last I looked from under my shield, there he stood 
amongst the g^'^ss, close to me, v^tching the waggon. If I had 
stood up I could have speared him ; but I was lying down, and 
if I had tried to get up he would have sprung upon me, the great 
thing ; so I held the shield more over me, like an animal with 
a shell, and crept a little way on to meet him, and then made a 
jump at him, and he roared and dashed away." 



TRA CKED BY AN ENEMY, 95 

•* But why didn't he seize you ?'* said Jack. 

" He did not see I was a man, and he did not understand 
what the long thing with black legs was that jumped at him ; and 
a lion is big and strong, but he is a coward about what he does 
not understand.'' 

"And have you frightened him right away?" asked Dick. 
** Fancy frightening away a lion ! " 

" No," said the Zulu ; ** only a little way. He is following 
the waggon now, crawling softly through the grass ; and I am 
sure it is the one Boss Jack has shot last night, for there was a 
mark and blood upon his forehead. It is a great lion, with no 
mane ; and he is savage and wild, and will follow the waggon 
always till he is killed. We must kill that lion soon/' 

"An' is he following us up, Muster Gineral?" said Dinny, 
who had heard some of the last words. 

The Zulu nodded ; and Dinny looked from one to the other with 
such a look of hopeless dread in his countenance, that even Mr. 
Rogers could not forbear to smile. 

** Sure it's the onsafest place I iver came noigh, sor ; and it's 
not meself that will stir away from the front of the waggon till 
that great baste is killed." 

The General's account of his proceedings, and his conversation 
as a rule^ was not in the plainest of English, so it is more con- 
venient to give it in ordinary colloquial form ; but he was very 
eamesty and tried hard to make himself understood. 

When Mr. Rogers consulted him as to the best means of 
getting rid of so unpleasant a follower, the Zulu said that the 
only way would be to ride on in front of the waggon, and then 
suddenly strike off to right or left, form a wide curve, and ride 
inward so as to strike the track of the waggon quite a mile be- 
hind. 

By this means, the General said, they would probably get a 
shot at the monster as he was crawling furtively after the 
horses, and probably bring it down. 

^ It is a risk," said Mr. Rogers thoughtfully ; " but it will be 



96 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

impossible for us to go on with an enemy like that always in our 
wake.** 

" When do you think he will try to attack us, General ? ** said 
Dick. 

•' When the sun has gone down, Boss, and the horses and 
oxen are having their evening feed." 

" And he might take my beautiful Shoes,'* said Dick. 

"Or my lovely old Stockings,*' cried Jack, quite unconscious 
of how absurd his words sounded. 

" We shall have to follow out the Zulu's plan, my boys,** said 
Mr. Rogers ; " and the sooner we try the better.*' 

The midday halt was called by a beautifully transparent pool 
of water, where some richly succulent grass awaited the cattle, 
and which for some hours they cropped, the heat being intense, 
and any object exposed to the full power of the sun soon be- 
coming hot enough to bum the hand. 

Hot as it was, Dinny, being assured that the lion was not 
likely to attack in open daylight, lit a roaring fire, and soon 
had the pot simmering with its rich thick meat gravy, a basin 
round of which, and a portion of a cake made and baked upon 
an iron plate brought for the purpose, formed their dinner. 

Then there was a siesta, and at last, the most fier)' hours 
being gone by, broad-brimmed straw hats were taken from the 
waggon — for it was still intensely hot — and the Zulu undertaking 
to lead the team on between two mountains through which the 
broad valley ran, the horses were saddled, rifles taken, and 
father and sons mounted to go on what might prove to be a very 
dangerous adventure. 

The first thing done was to carefully take in the bearings of the 
country, and then, after a few words of advice from the General 
— whom Mr. Rogers would have liked to have, only his presence 
was necessary with the waggon, he being the most trustworthy 
of their followers — they rode on at a brisk canter through the 
crisp long grass, and amongst the bushes, and always on- 
ward towards the head of the valley, where, towering up, stood 



TRACKED BY AN ENEMY. 97 



the twin mountains, which were like the ends of a couple of 
ridges or chains. 

Scrupulously following out the General's advice, they struck 
off to the left, and taking quite a two-mile circuit, they saw the 
waggon crawling along in the distince, while they cantered on, 
feeling wonderfully free and light in spite of the heat, till they 
were a long distance behind the waggon, when they halted 
and carefully swept the surface of the country, 

" Nothing in sight,*' said Mr. Rogers. 

*' I hope we shan't have our trip for nothing, father," replied 
Dick. 

"Are you eager to meet with the lion, then ? *' said his father, 
smiling. 

•* I don't know, father ; but I should like to shoot him," re- 
plied Dick quietly. 

" Well, my boys, I hope we shall shoot the animal ; and as 
we are now a couple of miles at least behind the waggon, if he 
is following it he should be before us now, so come along." 

Rifles were cocked, and every eye carefully scrutinized the dry 
drabby-yellow grass through which the lion would be stealing 
its way, and so much like the withered stems in colour that, un- 
less moving, it was quite possible to miss seeing such a creature 
as they rode along. 

The plan arranged was, that no sooner was the lion sighted 
than they were all to dismount, and fire as opportunity occurred, 
loading again as rapidly as possible for a second shot. 

But though they followed steadily on in the waggon track, 
riding all three abreast, and scanning every clump and bush, 
they had approached the bend of the valley without seeing any- 
thing but a few bok, which offered tempting marks now that 
they did not want to shoot. 

The waggon had evidently passed through the opening, for it 
was quite out of sight, and the sinking sun was casting long 
shadows. So at last Mr. Rogers grew impatient and spoke 
out, — 

H 



98 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

" We had better ride on, my boys, and catch the waggon. I 
want to halt early and form a good stout fence for our protection. 
We shall see no — ^" 

" Lion ! '* said Dick sharply. " Dismount." 

He threw himself from his horse on the instant, and stood. 
ready to fire, his father and brother imitating his example. 

" Where ? " said Mr. Rogers quietly. ** I sec nothing, Dick.'' 

" There," replied Dick, " fifty yards away, stealing through 
those thick sedgy grasses. Don't you see ? " 

*' Yes," said his father, •* I see the monster now. Keep cool, 
boys, and make your shots tell. If he is wounded and chaiges^ 
you must stand firm and fire again." 

Mr. Rogers waited a few moments, during which the lion, a 
monstrous yellow, maneless fellow, was half-crawling, half- 
creeping, through the long scdg>' grass ; and at last he showed 
so plainly that Mr. Rogers took careful aim, fired, and evidently 
hit, for the lion uttered a furious roar, and made a tremendous 
bound to escape, with the result that Dick's cob started, and 
threatened to dash off ; but a few words from its master calmed 
it ; and taking advantage of the good view he had of the lion, 
Dick now fired, a shot from Jack's rifle following directly after. 
But, so far from the monster being crippled, it ceased its efforts 
to escape, and turning, took a few steps forward, crouched like 
a cat, and then bounded at Jack. 

** Stand firm and fire !" cried Mr. Rogers. 

Jack obeyed, and as he fired the lion was in the air launching 
itself at him, but falling short, rolling over upon its side, and 
beginning to tear and gnaw at the dry grass in its death agony. 

Mr. Rogers approached, but drew back in favour of Dick. 

** Go and give it the coup de grace, my boy," he said. " You 
may as well have the honour of killing the monster, for a monster 
it is." 

Dick had replaced his empty cartridge with a full one, and 
was approaching boldly to fire the necessary shot, when, to his 
horror and astonishment, the lion rose, crouched, and showed 



TRACKED BY AN ENEMY. 



99 



its glistening teeth. But in spite of the terror that seized him 
he stood firm, took careful aim, fired, and with a savage roar, 
the lion rolled over, dead. 

It was indeed a monster, and its glistening fangs were very 
long, while upon examination there was the mark of Jack's 
last night's bullet, which had ploughed up the skin between the 
creature's ears, though the wound was now half dry. 

The shots brought the Zulu into sight with his boys, for the 
waggon was halting at a pleasant spring at the foot of one ot 
the mountains not a mile away, for here were wood and a good 
place for forming a kraal. 

The General and his sons raced down, and the boys danced 
roimd the lion and called it names. But there was no time to 
lose, and it was impossible to stop and skin the animal that night, 
so the General stuck some branches round it, and then led the 
way to camp, which was rapidly formed. And though they heard 
lions in the distance, they had a less disturbed night than the 
preceding one, greatly to the satisfaction of all, especially Dinny, 
who declared that it was a blessing that the hon was killed, for 
now they would be at peace. 

But Dinny was wrong, for there were other lions in the land. 



R 3 



loo OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XV. 

GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS. 

The day had hardly broken before Coffee and Chicory were 
shouting at the opening of the waggon for Boss Dick and Boss 
Jack to ** come and 'kin a lion." 

They wanted but little rousing up, and after a good souse in 
the pure cool spring, that ran bubbling over and amongst some 
rocks with delicious-looking broad-fronded ferns drooping 
gracefully over, they went and rubbed their horses' muzzles, 
patted their arched necks, and gave each a taste of sugar — for 
which Shoes and Stockings regularly looked now, and would 
follow their masters like dogs to obtain — they shouldered their 
rifles, and followed the General to the place where the lion lay. 

Rested and refreshed, everything around looked lovely, for 
they were at the head of a very fertile valley, where flowers 
bloomed in profusion, and the springs that rose in the sides of 
the mountains sent down moisture enough to keep miles of the 
country round of a perpetual green. 

** Plenty game here," said Chicory, pointing to a bare, muddy 
spot by a water-hole. 

The General turned aside, and stooped down to look at the 
hundreds of footprints in the soft mud. 

" Koodoo," he said, " eland, buffalo, bok, wildebeeste, quagga, 
zebra, lion," and he pointed out in turn the spoor, or footprints, 
of the various beasts he named. " Yes, plenty of game here." 

As they went on, the boys noticed the abundance of the pretty 
little whidah bird, a lovely little creature, about the size of a lark, 
but with a tail of such enormous length that in a breeze the 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS. loi 

power of the wind upon the tail drives the bird to take flight 
into shelter, so that it shall not be blown away. Pigeons in 
abundance flew over their heads, and parrots of such gaudy 
colours that Dick felt obliged to shoot three or four as speci- 
mens, to skin and add to their collection. 

But the lion pretty well fllled the thoughts of all, and Jack 
was intensely eager to see the monster that he took to himself 
the credit of having shot 

As they drew near the place where the adventure of the pre- 
vious night had taken place, the verdure began to give place to 
brown, parched-up sedgy grass, and the boys could not help 
noticing how much it seemed to harmonize with the skin of the 
beast of prey they had slain. 

As they drew nearer there was no difficulty in finding the 
spot, for a party of great, dusky, bare-necked vultures were sit- 
ting about, gazing hungrily at the dead beast, but afraid to ap- 
proach on account of the sticks and branches stuck about to 
imitate a trap. 

They were so near now that they could make out the shape 
of the lion amongst the dry grass, when, apparently always upon 
his guard, the General suddenly presented the point of his 
assegai. Coflee and Chicory said nothing, but they did the 
same ; and Dick and Jack, fully under the impression that the 
lion had come back to life, cocked their rifles and stood ready 
to fire. 

Just then there was a low muttering growl, a moving of the 
long grass as if something was passing through, and a smooth- 
coated lion bounded into sight, gazing at them menacingly, and 
lashing its sides with its tail. 

Wisely or no, the boys' rifles were at their shoulders on the 
instant, and they fired together as Coffee and Chicory threw 
their spears. 

There was a tremendous roar, a bound, a crash, and then 
silence, broken only by the clicking of the mechanism of the 
rifles, as the boys rapidly reloaded them with heavy ball. 



102 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

As the smoke cleared away the General beckoned Dick and 
Jack to his side, and they advanced cautiously through the 
grass, which they pushed aside with the assegai and the 
muzzles of the rifles, till they saw, a short distance off, the 
handle of an assegai sticking up. 

" There him is," shouted Coffee ; " my assegai ! " And he 
seemed ready to run forward and get it, but was checked by a 
sign from his father. 

The young hunters raised their rifles to their shoulders, ready 
to fire again, at the sight of the lion ; but the staff of the assegai 
did not even quiver ; and, gaining confidence, the General went 
closer and parted the grass, for his young companions to 
fire. 

The next moment he had sprung forward, and shouted and 
waved his spear above his head ; for there, upon its side, lay 
the lion, quite dead, the second within twenty-four hours. 

" That was your shot, Dick," said Jack. 

" No, no: yours," said Dick. 

" No ; I felt as if I didn't hit it far enough forward,*' cried 
Jack. " But we'll soon see." 

"Ah, yah, yah I Inyami, Inyami !*' shouted Coffee and 
Chicory ; and they began to kick and bang the dead lion with 
their kiris, till their father stopped them, and bade one of them 
go and fetch Peter or Dinny to come and help to skin. 

As it proved, there was a bullet right in the centre of the 
second lion's forehead, and another in the shoulder, which ball 
Jack claimed, so that Dick had, as he really deserved, the 
honour of shooting the monster, and he gazed with no little 
pride at its tremendous proportions. 

But big as it was, it was a lioness, and slighter in build than 
the tawny monster killed upon the previous evening, to which 
they now turned, looking in awe at its huge claw-armed paws, 
and legs one mass of muscle. There was something almost 
stupendous in the power that seemed to be condensed in its 
short thick neck, and broad deep shoulders, for, being one of the 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS. 103 

maneless kind every muscle of the neck, throat, and shoulders 
could be plainly seen. 

** Why, Jack, we should be like rats in the jaws of a cat if he 
took hold of us," said Dick. 

" More need to practise our shooting, Dicky, I shall always 
aim at their eyes." 

^ 1 want to get back and tell father," said Dick. " Oh, look ! 
here he comes." 

In effect, Mr. Rogers, who had heard the firing, was coming 
on at a fast run, in dread lest anything should be wrong ; but a 
smile of satisfaction appeared upon his face as he came up, and 
heard Dick's joyful cry, '* Father, IVe shot a lion." 

The skinning of the dangerous monsters was a tough job ; 
but in the Zulu's skilful hands it seemed comparatively easy, 
for he knew exactly where to divide the muscles to make the 
limbs give way, and how to thrust the point of his knife through 
various membranes ; so that by breakfast time, with the help of 
Peter, both trophies were removed, and borne to the camp in 
triumph. 

The place being so lovely, and game being evidently abun- 
dant, Mr. Rogers decided to stay where they were for a day or 
two, especially as the work of making a kraal of thorns every 
night became an arduous task and there was nothing to be 
gained by hurrying through the wonderful country without stop- 
ping to examine its beauties. 

Then, too, the abundance of rich fine grass growing near the 
rivulets that came down from the mountains was invaluable for 
the oxen, which had begun to look a trifle thinner ; and as the 
good patient beasts worked so willingly and well, it was a plea- 
sure to see them knee-deep in grass, placidly munching away 
at the rich herbage, and in company with the horses. 

So holiday for the animals was proclaimed ; Dinny, Peter, 
and Dirk were ordered to keep a watchful eye upon the graz- 
ing cattle, and Mr. Rogers proposed a short walking, shooting, 
and natural-history-collecting expedition. 



I04 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Of course it was all nonsense, but Dick vowed that Rough'un 
went and told what was to be ; for the dog, who had been look- 
ing at his masters with bright, intelligent eyes, suddenly jumped 
upon all fours and barked twice, after which he trotted off to 
where Pompey, Caesar, and Crassus were tied to the wheels of 
the waggon, put his nose to each, and barked ; and in the place 
of a patient attack upon tormenting flies and fleas, the dogs 
leaped up, strained at their thongs, and barked and bayed 
furiously. 

" Let them loose, boys," said Mr. Rogers, to Coffee and 
Chicory, who ran to perform his orders, but found it hard work ; 
for the dogs leaped at them, twisted the thongs between and 
round their legs, and upset them twice ; while as soon as they 
were at liberty they seemed to have mutually agreed that this 
was one of the dog-days, and that it was their duty to go right 
off mad. 

Their antics were wonderful. First they rushed off as hard 
as they could tear, as if going straight back home to Mr. Rogers' 
farm ; the next minute they were back, as if they had forgotten 
to kill Rough'un first, for they charged down upon him, rolling 
him over and over, biting, worrying, and tumbling upon him in 
the exuberance of their delight ; while Rough'un retaliated by 
biting again, and getting such a good grip with his teeth on 
Pompey*s tail that this sturdy fellow dragged him for yards 
before Rough'un let go. 

Altogether, for a few minutes there seem ed to be what Dick 
called a dog-storm, after which they all crouched down, with 
open mouths, starting eyes, and quivering tongue, staring at the 
preparations going on, and ready to be off. 

" Good old dogs ! Old Pomp ! old Caesar ! What old Cras I 
Hi, Rough'un I " cried Jack, caressing all the dogs in turn, and 
patting their heads, with the effect of making them seize and 
pretend to worry him, seizing his legs, jumping up, and show- 
ing their delight in a dozen ways. 

Then the ammunition had to be obtained, satchels stored 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS, 105 

with provisions, Coffee and Chicory carrying a supply for their 
own and their father's use ; and when the grim-looking old war- 
rior held up a warning finger at them and said they were not to 
eat the provisions, they brought a smile to his lips by running 
off together and pretending to devour the contents of the 
bag. 

At last all was ready, and after a few words of warning to 
Dinny and the others to be watchful, the little party started, 
Mr. Rogers referring to a small compass he carried in his pocket, 
and taking the bearings of the two mountains, so as to be sure 
of their return. 

For though the General was with them there was always 
the possibility of being separated ; and missing the way 
back in the great African wilds may mean missing one's 
life. 

There was plenty to see. Flowers grew in abundance in the 
rich moist places ; fleshy plants abounded in the sterile rocky 
parts ; and in every shady niche the ferns were glorious. The 
trees alone were enough to satisfy any one with a love of beauty. 
Great candelabra-shaped euphorbias, with wondrous thorns and 
lovely scarlet blossoms ; huge forest-trees that seemed to have 
lost their own individuality in the wreathing clusters of creeping 
flowering plants they bore. Everything was beautiful ; and as 
they walked on in the glowing sunshine, they seemed to have 
come to one of the most glorious spots of earth. 

They had not proceeded far beside one of the little rivers that 
came bubbling down from the mountain they were approaching 
before Rough'un began to bark. 

Clicky click, went Dick's rifle. 

" Look, father, look ! a crocodile ! ** cried Jack. " I wanted 
to see a crocodile." 

There was a rush, a splash, and a scurry, and Rough'un 
came out of the water, looking about him and staring up at his 
masters, as if asking what they had done with the reptile he 
bad chased. 



io6 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

"It was not a crocodile, Jack, but a large water-lizard," said 
Mr. Rogers. 

•* Plenty of crocodiles soon," said the General, " big as three 
of me." 

He marked off a space of about twenty feet upon the ground, 
to show the length the reptiles of which he spoke, and then 
roughly marked out their shape. 

" Not here," he said ; " over there." And he pointed to the 
north. 

" Here's another," cried Dick. 

And this time it was Pompey and Caesar who had hunted 
out a reptile, which hissed, and snapped, and fought vigorously 
for a few moments when driven to bay, but its defiance was short 
lived. 

While the engagement went on, the reptile looked dragon- 
like in aspect, with its rufHed and inflated throat, serrated back, 
and writhing tail ; but in a very short time the dogs had ob- 
tained the mastery, and the creature was examined, proving to 
be a kind of iguana, nearly six feet in length, a great deal of 
which, however, was the attenuated tail. 

The cracks and rifts in the hot bare stones as they climbed 
higher seemed to swarm with lizards of all kinds, ready to dart 
into their holes upon the approach of the dogs, while several times 
over the two Zulu boys came running back, beckoning to Dick 
and Jack to go and see some snake basking, twisted in a knot 
in some sunny spot. 

Upon one of these occasions Jack was so struck by the pecu- 
liar swollen, short appearance of the little serpent that he ran 
back and hailed his father, who came up just as Coffee and 
Chicory were assuring Dick that if he did what he had proposed 
to do, namely, taken up the short, thick serpent, .he would never 
have gone hunting any more. 

In fact as soon as Jack had gone the serpent moved slightly, 
and wishing his father to see it, and eager to stop its escape, 
Dick had attempted to pick it up, when Coffee and Chicory 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS, , 107 



threw themselves upon him, and a short struggle ensued, which 
made Dick very angry, and he was very nearly coming to 
blows. 

"The boys are quite right," said Mr. Rogers sharply. " Dick, 
you ought to have known better. Don't you know what that 
thick, short serpent is ? " 

" No, father," said Dick, in an injured tone. 

** Then you ought to know, my boy, for I have described it 
to you when talking about the reptiles of this part of the world. 
What do you say it is, Jack ? " 

*• I don't know, father ; I'm not sure," replied Jack, glancing 
at Dick, and feeling that it would hurt him to profess to greater 
knowledge than his brother. 

" Nonsense I Tm sure you do know," said Mr. Rogers 
impatiently. 

" Is it the puff-adder, father ?" said Dick hesitatingly. 

** Of course it is, and you ought to have known the deadly 
pest No, no, don't waste a charge upon it, and it may alarm 
any game. Let one of the boys kill it." 

That was soon done, for Chicory made a sign to his brother, 
who touched the puff-adder's tail and began to irritate it, 
making it turn and strike viciously at the blade of his 
ass^ai. 

That was what Chicory wanted. 

The next moment his blade whished through the air, and 
the puff-adder's head lay upon the ground. 

" You cannot be too careful, boys," said Mr. Rogers, picking 
up the fiat spade-shaped head, and opening the jaws with the 
point of his knife. 

'* Look, boys," he continued, as he made the jaws gape, and 
then raised up a couple of keen transparent fangs that lay 
back upon the roof of the creature's mouth. " Do you see ? 
There are the hollow fangs through which a drop of deadly 
poison is injected in the blood and causes death. Don't let's 
destroy life unnecessarily ; but if we want food, or come across 



io8 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

any poisonous or dangerous beast, I think it is sentimentality 
to refrain from ridding the world of such a pest" 

Dick felt very ignorant, and wished he had known better ; 
but he could not help being pleased at his brother's manner ; 
and the incident was forgotten the next moment in one of those 
natural history adventures of which they had all read, but had 
little expected to share in their lives. 

As they had climbed higher they had found the mountain 
more rugged, and broken up into deep crevices and defiles, all 
of which were full of interesting objects — flowers, plants, and 
foliage — such as they had never before seen ; while in the shel- 
tered and often intense heat, beetles and butterflies seemed to 
have found these rifts a perfect paradise. 

Dick had gone on first, and turning a comer he had found 
quite a rugged shelf running alone the steep side of a ravine, the 
bottom of which was carpeted with flowers that grew amongst 
the stones. 

It was a very interesting spot, but as it seemed to lead right 
away into the heart of the mountain he was about to turn back 
and rejoin his party, when he caught sight of a gracefully-shaped 
large-eared gazelle about fifty >'ards away, gazing apparently 
in another direction. 

He could have shot it easily, but it seemed so quiet and tame 
that he did not raise his piece, though if it had attempted to 
run, the thought of the delicious roast it would make would 
undoubtedly have made him bring it down. 

Besides he wanted all the practice he could get with his 
rifle, and a shot at a running antelope or gazelle was not to be 
missed. 

Half wondering why it did not feed, he remained watching 
it, supposing that it had heard some of the party lower down ; 
when all at once the sun's rays seemed to glance off something 
glistening and bright, and straining forward to get a better 
view, Dick became aware of the fact that a large serpent was 
twining fold after fold one over another, and as, half petrified, he 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS. 109 




watched the reptile, he suddenly saw a monstrous neck and 
bead reared up in front of the gazelle. 



no OFF TO THE WILDS. 

The creature seemed to be all glistening umber brown and dusky 
yellow, and its surface shone like burnished tortoiseshell in the 
glowing sun, while to the boy's eyes it seemed, from the height 
to which the swaying head was raised, that the body, half hidden 
from him by the herbage, must be monstrous. 

And all the time, fascinated as it were, or more probably 
paralyzed by fear, the gazelle stood perfectly still, watching ^he 
undulations of the serpent's neck, and calmly awaiting its 
end. 

Dick was so interested that he forgot that he held a rifle and 
shot-gun in his hand. He knew that the serpent was, as it were, 
playing with its prey before seizing it, feeling probably, if it 
thought at all, quite certain of the trembling creature whenever 
it felt disposed to strike, and preparing itself for its banquet by 
writhing its body into a more convenient place. 

It was a horrible sight, and Dick waited to see the serpent 
seize the gazelle, wrap round it and crush its quivering body 
out of shape, and then slowly swallow it, till it formed a knot 
somewhere in the long tapering form, and go to sleep till it was 
hungry again. 

" Ugh, you beast ! " ejaculated Dick ; and the sound of his 
own voice seemed to break the fascination of interest by which 
he had been held. 

The next instant he was pitying the gazelle, and as he saw the 
serpent draw back its head he laid the barrel of his piece against 
a block of stone, waited until the quivering head was still and 
the jaws began to distend, and then his trembling hand grew 
firm, and he drew the trigger. 

The puff of smoke obscured everything for the moment, and 
he could not start forward or he would have gone over the pre- 
cipice, so he had to wait till the vapour had passed away, when, 
to his great disgust, he could see nothing. 

The gazelle and serpent were both gone ; so he began to 
load again, wishing he could take better aim, when he heard a . 
shout, and Chicory came running up, followed by Coffee. 



GOOD PRACTICE FOR GUNNERS, in 

** Boss Dick shoot um ? Boss Dick shoot noder lion ? " cried 
Chicory. 
** No," said Dick ; ** it was a miss this time." 
" No," cried Coffee ; " I see um. Look, boss, look ! " 
Mr. Rogers and Jack came hurrying up just then, and looking 
in the direction pointed out, there was the serpent, writhing and 
twining in the most horrible manner down in a narrow rift, out 
of which it now glided in a blind purposeless way, writhing, 
whipping the herbage with its tail, and tying itself in what 
seemed to be impossible knots. 

¦ 

•* Coffee and Chick go and kill um," said the latter, letting 
himself down the face of the precipice, followed by his brother ; 
and, apparently quite without dread of the monster, they scram- 
bled down over the rough stones till they came to the serpent, 
when, watching his opportunity. Coffee seized its tail and tried 
to drag it, but the creature seemed to whip him off, and Coffee 
uttered a yell as he was driven staggering back. 

"Go down, Dick, and try and give the monster another 
shot," said Mr. Rogers. " No, stop ; I dare say the boys will 
£nish it" 

For just then, evidently enraged at the treatment his brother 
had received, Chicory drove his assegai through the serpent, and 
then again and again, the creature's struggles being blind of 
purpose, for its head had been shattered by Dick's shot ; while 
fiercely leaping up. Coffee raised his own assegai, and holding 
it chopper fashion, he waited his time till the serpent's head was 
handy, when he hewed it off. 

The writhings now grew faint ; and the General coming up, and 
descending with Mr. Rogers and his sqns and the dogs, which 
kept making rushes at the waving form and not biting it, the 
serpent was dragged out full length and measured, Mr. Rogers 
making seven fair paces by its side, and setting it down at 
about eighteen feet in length. 

•'Anicc monster to meet. Master Dick," he said. "I con- 
gratulate you upon your success." 



112 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



** Have it skinned^ £auher,* exclaimed Jack eagerly. ** It 
would be such a capital thing to have, sta£kd and coiled up, at 
home.* 

Mr. Rogers glanced at the great £auntly*writhing monster, 
with its tonoiseshell markings, and shook his head. 

^ No« my boy,'' he said ; **' I must confess to too great a dis« 
like to the serpent race to care to carry about their skins. Be* 
sides, if we are going on like this, killing a lion a day, we shall 
have only room for the skins of our big game. Let's leave the 
creature here. 

They climbed up out of the ravine, and after a couple of hours' 
more walking, fiiU of interest if not of incident, they went slowly 
back, glad to get in the shade of the trees beneath which the 
waggon was halted, and finding everything ri^t. 



"3 



CHAPTER XVI. 

HOW THE LITTLE GINTLEMEN INTERFERED WID DINNY. 

A FEW days were very pleasantly spent here collecting, for 
Mr. Rogers was an enthusiastic naturalist. Birds of brilliant 
feathering were shot, skinned, preserved with arsenical paste, 
fiUed with cotton wool, and laid to dry with their heads and 
shoulders thrust into paper cones, after which they were trans- 
ferred to a box which had to be zealously watched to keep out 
the ants. Certainly scores of these were killed through eating 
the poison smeared upon the skins, but that was little satisfac- 
tion if they had first destroyed some delicate bird. 

Butterflies, too, and beetles were obtained in great numbers, 
being carefully killed, and pinned out in boxes lined with cam- 
phored cork. These insects the two Zulu boys soon learned 
to capture with the greatest ease, and after a little teaching 
they would bring in a handsome butterfly or moth, without 
crashing and disfiguring it first so that it was useless for pre- 
servation. 

Bok or antelope of various kinds were plentiful enough to 
make the party sure of plenty of food ; and both Dick and Jack 
were getting so skilful with the rifle that they could be depended 
upon to bring down a koodoo or spring-bok at four or five 
hundred paces. 

The kraal had been strengthened, so that they felt no fear of 
a lion getting through ; but fires were kept up every night, wood 
being plentiful, and the bright glow seemed to give confidence 
to the occupants of the camp, as well as to the horses and oxen. 
Watch was kept too, but though lions were sometimes heard at 



114 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

a distance they did not molest the travellers, and but for the 
stern suggestions of the General they would have grown care- 
less in the extreme. 

For experience and skill in the use of fire-arms made Dick 
and Jack more confident. They had looked upon a lion as a 
monster of such prowess, and of so dangerous a character, that 
they were quite surprised at the ease with which a good shot 
with a rifle could hold the king of beasts at his mercy. 

As for Coffee and Chicory, the General several times punished 
them for being so daring and running such risks, especially as 
they were in a part of the country where lions really were 
plentiful, although, so far, little molestation of the travellers had 
taken place. 

It had been decided that upon the next day they would trek 
onward (for some distance, and perhaps on and on for days, 
according to the attractiveness of the country they were passing 
through, and the plentifulness of the game. 

The General heard Mr. Rogers' decision with a smile of 
satisfaction. 

"I want to take you where the great tusker elephants are,** 
he said, ** and let you shoot the giraffe and rhinoceros. We 
have hardly begun yet." 

He made the boys' eyes glow with excitement as he told 
them of the size of the hippopotami and elephants they would 
encounter, the height of the giraffes, and the furious nature of 
the rhinoceros, which beast seemed to be always mad if it saw 
a human being. 

As they were going to start next day it was decided to let the 
horses graze in peace with the oxen, which, after a fortnight's 
rest, looked sleek-coated and in far better condition ; but Peter, 
Dirk, and Dinny were bidden to keep a strict watch over the 
cattle, for just before starting the General announced that he 
had seen a lion-spoor, apparently two days old. 

The day was passed very pleasantly, collecting, by Mr. 
Rogers and his sons, several very beautiful birds falling to their 



THE LITTLE GINTLEMEN AND DINNY, 1 1 5 

guns, and their boxes being filled with splendidly burnished 
beetles ; and at last tired out, they turned to get back t.> the 
little camp by midday, hoping to find a satisfactory meal ready, 
for the General had gone out with a rifle in search of a bok ; and 
his two boys had taken their kiris and assegais, to see if they 
could not knock down a few of the large partridge or quail-like 
birds. 

What was their disappointment then to find that neither the 
General nor his sons had returned, while Dinny was in great 
distress. 

** Sure," he said, '• I thought Pd take a fishing-line and a 
shtick, and go to the big pool by the little river over yonder, and 
catch a few of the fish things ; bad cess to 'em, they Ve no more 
like the fine salmon and throut of my own countr)' than this 
baste of a place is its aiqual." 

" Well, Dinny, and you went and didn't catch anything," said 
Dick. 

"Sure, Masther Dick, an' you weren't there,'' said Dinny; 
•* but ye're right there ; I didn't catch a single fish, for the little 
gintlemen wouldn't let me." 

" Little gentlemen, Dinny ?'• said Mr. Rogers eagerly. " Did 
you see any natives ? " 

" An' is it natives ye'd call the dirthy undersized little cray- 
tures?" cried Dinny indignantly. ** Sure Td take a couple of 
'em up under my arms and run away wid 'em." 

" But you say they interfered with you, and wouldn't let you 
fish," said Mr. Rogers. 

"Faix, sor, an' that's what they did. Ye know the big 
pool" 

**To be sure," said Mr. Rogers. ** There are silurus in it." 

"Are there though, sor? "said Dinny. "And there's the 
big rocks up behind it, where the prickly trees wid red flowers 
and DO leaves at all grow." 

"Yes, I know the place," said Mr. Rogers impatiently; "go 



on." 



I 2 



ii6 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

^WeU, sor, I sits meself down comfortable, baits my hook 
wid a nice bit of fresh mate as any dacent fish would like to 
have, and then I says to meself, * Dinny/ I says, * while ye're 
waiting to hook a nice fish for the masther's dinner, I'd have jist 
a whiff o' tibakky if I were you.' * Ye're right and I will,' I 
says ; and I outs wid my pipe, fills it, and was just going to 
light up, when splash / There was a great big stone thrown 
in the wather. 

'* ' Ah, be aisy, Masther Jack,' I says, for I knew it was 
you." 

** Why, I was away with my father,** cried Jack. 

•* To be sure ye were, Masther Jack, dear ; but don't ye 
see I thought it was your thrick ; and bang comes another big 
stone down be me side. 

"Til tell the masther if ye don't lave off,' I says. * That's 
you, Masther Dick, as throwed that.' 

^ Splash comes another, and then I recklected as ye'd both 
be far away, and that it must be one of them dirthy little var- 
mints. Coffee or Chicory. So I lays down me rod and line^ as 
nice and sthrait a rod as ye'd cut out of the woods anywhere^ 
ye know, sor, and I picked up my bit of stick ready for 
them. 

** * I'll wait till ye throw again, me beauties,' I says ; and just 
as I says it to meself, a big stone hits me on the back, and 
another goes in just by me line. 

" * Now ye shall have it, ye wicked little villains,* I says ; and 
jumping up I was going to run at 'em, when, murther ! there 
was about a dozen of the craytures coming down from the rocks, 
shouting and chattering, and throwing stones. 

** * Will ye be off? ' says one ; * yeVe no business fishing there 
widout lave.' " 

" How do you know he said that ? " said Dick dryly. 

"Sure an' what else would he say, Masther Dick, dear? 
An' ah, ye never saw such ugly little divils, widout a bit o' 
nose to their dirty faces, and a grin as if they were all teeth. 



THE LITTLE GINTLEMEN AND DINNY, 117 

***Surc I was only catching a fish for the masther's dinner, 
gintlemen,' I says, when, murther ! if they didn't run at me like 
mady and if I hadn't walked away I belave they'd have killed 
me. As it was one cowardly villain instead of hitting me 
dacently on the head wid his stick like a Christian, comes at 
me and bites me in the leg." 

^ Let's look, Dinny,** said Dick, for Mr. Rogers listened but 
did not speak. 

<< Oh ye can look, Masther Dick. He tuk a pace out of me 
throusis, and he'd have tuk a pace out of me leg as well, if I 
hadn't expostulated wid him on the head wid me shtick. Sure 
I was obliged to run then or the/d have torn me to pieces ; 
and it's my belafe they've been using the fishing-line ever 
since." 

^And so you've had an interview with the natives, have 
you, Dinny ? " said Mr. Rogers dryly. 

^ Ah, I wouldn't call them natives, sor," said Dinny. 

•* What then, baboons ? " said Mr. Rogers. 

** Sure, sur, I don't know the name of the thribe, but they're 
a dirthy-looking little lot, and as hairy as if they never shaved 
themselves a bit." 

** Why he's been pelted by monkeys," cried Dick, indignantly ; 
and Jack burst out laughing. 

" Faix, Masther Dick, dear, they behaved like monkeys more 
than men, and they're an ugly little thribe of natives ; and if I'd 
had a gun I'd have given some of them the headache, that I 
would* 

**Ah, here's the General," cried Mr. Rogers, as the great 
Zulu came striding up with a bok over his shoulder. 

As he entered the little camp he threw down the bok, and 
b^^ to skin it, looking about for Coffee and Chicory. 

" Where are the boys ? " he said at last. 

*• Sure they haven't come back," said Dinny ; " and I hope 
they never will," he added, taking the bok to cut up and cook 
a portion, for Dinny's leg was very sore and bleeding frouv^ 



L 



ii8 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

severe bite, and his temper was also a little more sore from the 
doubt with which his story had been received. 

The Zulu darted a fierce glance at him, but he did not 
speak. He only walked to the waggon, where Mr. Rogers 
was examining some of the specimens he had killed, and said 
simply, — 

" May I take the rifle, boss, and go and find my boys ? ** 

" Yes, of course," exclaimed Mr. Rogers. 

" I'll go with you, General," cried Jack eagerly. 

" But you are too tired,*' said his father. 

" Oh, no," cried Jack. *' I don't mind. Til go with the 
General." 

The Zulu darted a grateful look at Jack, and the latter took 
his rifle and bullet cartridges, starting off directly after in the 
way that the boys had been seen to go. 

Jack began chatting to the Zulu as they went along, but 
after a few remarks he noticed that the General was very quiet 
and reserved, while when he glanced at his countenance it 
looked so strange that Jack felt startled, and began to think 
of how awkward his position would be if the Zulu were to 
prove unfaithful, and turn upon him. 

But the next minute he was reassured, and found that it was 
anxiety upon the General's part about his boys. 

" I am afraid, Boss Jack," he said hoarsely. " It frightens 
me to think. They may be killed." 

•* Oh, no," cried Jack hopefully. " They have only gone 
farther away, and have not had time to return." 

The Ziilu shook his head, but he glanced eagerly at the 
speaker as if to silently ask him if he really felt like that. 

** No," he said softly ; ** one of them would be back by 
now. I am afraid." 

Jack tried again, but it was of no avail ; and the Zulu having 
struck the boys' trail, he had to be left to follow it without 
interruption, and this he did, all through the heat of that glow- 
iDg afternoon. 



THE UTTLE GINTLEMEN AND DINNY. 119 

Several times poor Jack felt as if he would faint, but his 
spirit kept him up, and at last they came upon Chicory, 
sitting down by a little pool of water with his assegai beside 
him, bathing his bleeding feet. 

The Zulu uttered a low sigh of satisfaction as he saw one of 
his boys, and Chicory jumped up, and seizing his assegai, ran 
to meet thent 

"My brother; has he got back?" he asked in his own 
tongue. 

** No ; I came to find you both. Where is he ? *' said the 
General sternly. 

*' Lost," said Chicory disconsolately. " We got no birds and 
itould not go back without, and we went on and parted. He is 
lost" 

" Lost ! " said the Zulu scornfully ; " my boy lost ! Go find 
him. Watch the spoor. He must be found." 

Poor Chicory turned without a word, and in obedience to his 
father's order he went off in the direction where he and his 
brother had accidentally parted, and at last led them to a beau- 
tiful park-like tract of land. Forest-trees sprang up in every 
direction, for the most part draped with creepers ; clumps of 
bushy growth, and clusters of prickly succulent plants, grew on 
every side. It was in fact a very nature's garden, but though 
they searched in all directions through the lovely glades, golden 
with the rays of the scorching sun, there was no trace of poor 
Coffee ; and after separating, when they met again from time to 
time poor worn out Chicory looked his despair. 

Again they separated. Jack following, however, pretty closely 
upon poor Chicory's steps, till the excitement that had kept 
him up so long began to fail, and he sat down pretty well ex- 
hausted, with his rifie across his knees and his back against a 
tree. 



I20 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

JACK ROGERS GOES TO SLEEP, 

Jack could hardly tell afterwards how it all happened, for he 
felt that he must have gone off fast asleep from utter exhaustion, 
but his sleep could not have lasted above an hour, for when he 
awoke with a start the sun had only just dipped down out of 
sight, and there was a faint glow still amongst the trees. 

All was very silent and he was drowsy, but a feeling of 
alarm now began to oppress him, and he wondered whether 
Chicory and the General would soon be there. 

His next thought was about his rifle, which still lay across 
his knees ; and feeling that he might at any moment be called 
upon to use it in his defence, he cocked both barrels, and was 
then about to get up and shout, when, not a hundred yards 
away down a broad vista of the open forest, he saw something 
which made him present his rifle and then sit motionless, with his 
heart going thump, thump, heavily beneath his ribs. 

For there, stealing softly along, with its belly almos* sweep- 
ing the ground, was a huge lion — not a smooth, maneless lion, 
such as the two they had slain, but a big-muzzled, rugged- 
maned, hairy monster, such as he was familiar with in pictures 
— the natural history lion that he had seen a hundred times. 

To have attempted to fire would have been madness at that 
distance, and it was evident that he was at present in no 
danger, for seated as he was in the shadow, with his back to 
the trunk of a great tree, the lion had not seen him. 

The next moment Jack saw why he passed unnoticed. 

The lion was cautiously stalking some dark animal that was 



JACK ROGERS GOES TO SLEEP. wi 

softly gliding through the bushes, following it step by step 
awaiting the time to spring. 

It was an interesting sight, though painful ; and Jack thought 
of his brother's adventure with the serpent, and whether he 
was not in duty bound to save this animal from its pursuer as 
his brother saved the gazelle. 

The next moment Jack's heart seemed to stand still, for the 
dark animal passed out of the bushes into sight, and he saw 
that it was no wild animal, bufpoor Chicory, bending down, and 
evidently carefully tracing some spoor, perhaps his brother's, 
while the lion was following to strike him down. 

It was a terrible position ; for young as he was in woodcraft, 
Jack had not yet acquired the firmness in critical moments 
that comes to the old hunter, and for the time he felt para- 
lyzed. 

He was a brave, self-denying boy, but in that emergency he 
could only sit there, turned as it were to stone, and watch the 
motions of poor Chicory, and the merciless beast that was 
stealthily creeping along in his wake without a sound. 

Jack knew that Chicor>''s position was critical in the extreme, 
and that if he did not save him by a lucky shot the lion would 
strike him down ; but he could not move ; the muscles of his 
whole body refused to act, as if he was in a nightmare ; all he 
could do was to move his eyes and watch the terrible tragedy 
about to be enacted. 

The boy felt as if he would have given worlds to be able to 
fire, or even shout ; but he could do nothing but wait, and see 
Chicory creeping patiently along in and out among the trees 
and bushes, now hidden, now coming into sight for a few 
moments, but always so intent upon the footprints he was 
examining, that he did not hear his enemy. 

And what an enemy ! There was the great powerful beast, 
with glaring eyes and horrent mane, creeping along with its 
fur brushing the grass, and every foot touching the ground like 
velvet. At times Jack could see the great muscles movvci^ 



122 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



beneath its skin, and the pliant tail swaying and quivering as it 
softly lashed it to and fro. 

Several times over it crouched down, as if about to spring, 
but a quick movement on the part of the Zulu boy caused it to 
pause— and still the hunt went on. 

As Jack sat there the great drops of perspiration gathered upon 
his forehead, and trickled down his face. The sun's light re- 
flected from the glowing clouds grew less, and there was a grey 
gloom gathering round, which made the scene before him 
more painful. At one time he thought that as darkness came 
on Chicory might give up, become aware of his danger, and 
so escape. Even now, if he could have warned him the boy 
would have doubtless bounded into a tree, for he was as quick 
and active as a monkey; but no warning passed from Jack's 
lips, and the strange weird scene went on. 

The forest glade before him might have been a maze whose 
path Chicory was tr>'ing to thread, and the lion some faithful at- 
tendant beast, watchfully following in his very steps. But though 
Jack's body was as it were enchained, his mind was in a fear- 
ful state of activity; and not only did he follow as if fascinated 
every step, but his thoughts even went in advance, and he felt 
sick as he thought of the catastrophe about to happen, seeming 
to see the lion make its final crouch and spring, hearing too the 
boy's death-shriek ; and as the actors in the terrible scene drew 
nearer to him. Jack strove with all his might to cast off his 
inaction. 

On still, and in and out, in a heavy weary way, as if he could 
hardly put one leg before the other, went poor Chicory ; and 
slowly and carefully followed the lion, the massive jaws thrust 
forward, and each great paw raised and set down without a 
sound. 

It could not have lasted more than a few minutes, this ex- 
citing scene, but it seemed never ending to Jack as he sat there, 
till in one instant he was roused back into action, and to try and 
succour the poor boy. 



JACK ROGERS GOES TO SLEEP. 123 



In his wanderings in and out, as has been said, Chicory came 
nearer to where his young master sat, with his back to the trunk 
of the great forest-tree, and more than once Jack wondered 
that the lion had not seen him ; though this was easily explain- 
able — he remained perfectly motionless, and the animal was 
intent upon his prey. 

Chicory had come on nearer and nearer then, till he was not 
above thirty yards from Jack, when, turning in amongst some 
long grass, the positions were suddenly reversed, for in place 
of following the Zulu boy, the lion crept round a clump of 
bushes so as to come face to face with him, and then crouched 
ready to spring— just as Chicory stopped short, leaning forward 
over something in the long grass, and, dropping his assegai, 
uttered a piercing shriek. 

Not thirty yards away, and just in face of where Jack was ; 
and he knew that Chicory had come upon something terrible, 
perhaps the body of his brother, while he, Jack, had been sitting 
there quite unconscious, and had even in his ignorance gone to 
sleep. 

It was that cry that roused Jack into action, for, almost as 
the boy dropped his assegai and leaned over that something in 
the long grass, the lion gathered itself for its spring, and the 
watcher's rifle rose to his shoulder. There was one quick aim — 
the sharp crack, followed by a multitude of echoes ; and Jack 
sprang to his feet and on one side, to avoid the charge should 
the lion come his way. 

There was a deafening roar, and the lion, which had fallen 
short in his spring and rolled over, evidently badly hit, struggled 
to his feet, and made at Jack, who sheltered himself behind the 
nearest tree ; and when the great brute came on, with distended 
claws and bristling mane, he fired again, at a distance of a couple 
of yards, forgetting that his charge was but small shot. 

At that distance, though, small shot were as good as a bullet, 
and the lion fell in his tracks, snarling and growling horribly, as 
he struck impotently at his slayer ; then his head fell back, the 



124 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



mighty paws grew inert, and he lay over more upon his side — 
for with a furious cry of rage Chicory forgot his weariness, and 
picking up his assegai, drove it deep into the animal's chest. 

Hardly believing it true, Jack rapidly reloaded, congratulating 
himself upon what he had done, when he heard the rustling 
of leaves, and presented his piece, fully expecting that it was 
the lion's mate. 

But no : it was the General, who ran panting up, having 
heard the sound of the rifle, and as he reached them Chicory 
took his hand, and led him to the patch of grass without a 
word. 

Jack followed, instinctively knowing that something terrible 
was there. And then his heart seemed to stand still, as he 
heard a deep groan burst from the General's breast, and he 
sank down by the body of the son he had come to seek. 

'^ Is — is he dead ? " said Jack, in a hoarse whisper, as he 
gazed down in the gathering darkness at poor Coffee's bleeding 
form. 

For answer the General was feeling the boy's chest, and he 
then laid his ear against his side. 

" No, not dead ! " he cried excitedly. 

Then lifting the boy in his arms, he started ofTback towards the 
waggon. Jack and Chicory following behind, but not until 
the latter had rushed back to where the lion lay, and plunged his 
assegai once more deeply into the monster's chest. 



125 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

THE CAPTURE OF A CAT. 

It was a long and toilsome walk back, for the night had come 
on quickly, and every now and then the roar of some beast of 
prey, or the crash of some animal through the trees, was heard. 
But nothing interfered with them ; and when from time to time 
they halted for a few moments, the General gladly made use of 
the strips torn by Jack from his handkerchief and shirt to bind 
up the poor boy's bleeding wounds. 

It seemed wonderful to Jack that strength and determination 
on the part of the General, almost as wonderful as the unerring 
instinct with which he made straight for the camp. 

He did not speak once, but there was something exceedingly 
tender in the way in which he tried to carry the wounded boy, 
so as not to cause him pain ; for he did not realize that poor 
Coffee was quite insensible to suffering, and had not felt any- 
thing since he had been struck down. 

At last, when Jack felt that he could no longer plant one leg 
before the other, there was the bright glow of the fire at the 
little camp, where they found Mr. Rogers in a terrible state of 
uneasiness at their prolonged absence. 

The moment, however, he found what was wrong, his sur- 
gical skill, which was not slight, was brought to bear, and the 
terrible gaping wounds of the poor boy were sewn up and 
bandaged. 

Read by the light of all that Jack had to tell, it was plain enough 
what had befallen poor Coffee. He had been stalked, by the 
same lion probably as that which Jack had shot. The monster 



126 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



had sprang czpoa hrm. dawiag his bare back and shoulder ; and 
then, probabiT bfrrt^ sarteited with dcTOorii^ some unfortunate 
beast, he had left the boy, and had been roused again by another 
iatmder cpoa his deauins^ while, but for Jack's rifle, poor 
Chicorv would have shared his fate. 

^ But a* didn't kill Ch:<±, Boss Jack. Boss Jack Idll urn, and 
Boss Jack and Chick go and kill all a lion now, and not leave 
not one,** 

This was the next morning, when the events of the past night 
had been talked over, and Mr. Rogers had expressed a hope 
that the boy might live. 

But, as he told his sons, it was very doubtful, for he had been 
horribly clawed by the lion, though fortunately upon his back. 
Had the creature seized him in front, he must have lost his 
life. 

All attempts at continuing the journey were of course put off, 
a comfortable bed being made up for Coffee where he would feel 
the cooling breeze and be sheltered from the sun, while his 
father took his place by him, and sat and kept the bandages 
over the wounds wet and cooL 

It was Chicory who proposed that the lion's skin should be 
fetched in ; and after a promise to be careful, the boys started 
off, taking with them Peter to skin the lion, Mr. Rogers feeling 
that he could not leave with Coffee in such a state. In fact he 
hesitated about letting his sons go, after such a shock, though he 
could not help feeling that they were beginning to display a 
courage and decision that was most praiseworthy, especially as 
it was linked with so much self-denial. 

•* But the skin would be such a trophy, father," said Jack. ** I 
should like to have it." 

" Go and get it, then,*' said Mr. Rogers; "but don't stop. 
You may as well shoot a few birds, though, or any small bok, if 
you can. We must make our beef-tea of venison, Dinny says,** 
he added with a smile, ** for the invalid must have plenty of 
support." 



THE CAPTURE OF A CAT. 127 

Jack went to have a look at poor Coffee as he lay there in- 
sensible, and softly placed his cool hand upon the poor boy's 
burning head. 

Then he started, for, to his surprise, the General was at his 

feet with his arms round his legs, and embracing them closely, 

. He did not understand it then, but the Zulu was swearing 

fidelity, and to lay down his life for him who had saved, as he 

felt, both his boys. 

Just then there was a yelping and baying amongst the dogs, a 
snarling noise, and Dinny*s voice heard shouting — when Jack 
ran out, just in time to see something yellowish and spotted 
rush among the trees, sending the oxen into a terrible state of 
excitement, and making the horses gallop up to the waggon for 
protection. 

Mr. Rogers was out in the open with a gun — but it was too 
late, there was nothing to shoot, and the dogs, which had been 
off after the animal, came trotting back. 

** What was it, Dinny ? " said Mr. Rogers. 

" Sure, sor, an' it was a great big yellow tom cat, wid splashes 
like brown gravy all over his dirthy body; an' he came sneaking 
out of the wood and made a pounce on Rough'un there ; but 
the dog was too quick for him, an' run bechuckst the big 
waggon-wheels, an' thin I threw a pot at him and aff he went, 
and the dogs after him." 

" How big was it, Dinny ?" cried Dick excitedly. 

^' About as big as ten tom cats, Masthcr Dick, if they was all 
biled down and made into one." 

•• Get along," cried Dick. ** What would it be, father — a 
leopard?" 

** Yes, my boy, undoubtedly. They are very fond of dogs, 
and will dash under the waggons sometimes after one. Rough'un 
has had a narrow escape. We must look out, for the creature 
may come again." 

It was a long walk to the glade where the lion was shot, but 
they killed a couple of the dangerous puff-adders, and shot three 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




THE dog's en em v. 



or four beautiful birds, besides bringing down a smsll gaieUe, 
which they protected with sticks to keep off the vultures. But 



THE CAPTURE OF A CAT. 129 

the most interesting part of their journey was during the first 
mile of their way. They had all separated so as to look out for 
game, and were crossing a patch of dense dried-up yellow grass 
where they expected to spring a large bird or two, when, all at 
once, something of a rich yellow and brown darted out before 
Dicky leaving one clump to make for another, closely followed 
by a little dun-coloured animal, evidently its young. 

Dick's rifle was to his shoulder on the instant, and a bullet 
through the animal laid it low, while the young one leaped upon 
it, and turned and snarled, and spat at its mother's slayer. 

•* Why it's the leopard that came after poor Rough'un, HI be 
bound,'* cried Jack, coming up. " It has got a young one, and 
that's what made it so daring. Hullo, little chap ! We'll take 
you back for a pet." 

But the young leopard was already in a pet, and it scratched, 
and swore, and behaved so cat-like, that it was no easy task to 
secure it. This, however, was done in a strong game-bag, which 
was hung in a tree while the mother was skinned ibr the sake of 
her beautiful hide. 

As they neared the place where Jack's lion lay, Dick drew his 
brother's attention to the vultures that were winging their way 
overhead. 

** Youll see if they haven't been at your lion," he said. 

He proved a true prophet, for as they drew near the glade — 
Jack feeling a strange chill of horror as he recalled the last 
night's adventure — first one and then another vulture tlew up, and 
when Chicory made a dash forward they rose in a cloud. 

" Your skin's spoiled, Jack," said his brother. 

But he was wrong, for the vultures had found two assegais 
leaning against a bush, and looking so ominous with their bright 
blades where the General had left them, that they had not dared 
to touch the lion, and the consequence was that a magnificent 
skin was obtained, one that proved to be no light load for Peter 
and Chicory, who carried it swinging from a pole resting upon 
their shoulders. 



I30 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

The load was increased as they picked up the skin of the 
leopard, while the boys carried the game. 

The young leopard proved to be quite safe in the game bag, 
which formed a comfortable hammock for it as it hung in a 
tree, but no sooner was it swung from Jack's shoulder, and felt 
the motion of the walker, than it became furious, spitting and 
tearing, and tr>'ing to get out. 

One way and another they were so loaded that the sight of 
the waggon proved very welcome, and all were only too glad to 
partake of a good basin of what Mr. Rogers called *' Pinny's 
restorative," namely the rich thick venison soup always stewing 
in the great pot, and being added to every day. 

And it was wonderful how invigorating this rich meat essence 
proved. No matter how weary they were, a basin of it could 
be enjoyed, and its effect seemed to be almost instantaneous. 

After a good dinner in the shade of the big tree by the waggon, 
both Jack and Dick had another look at poor Coffee, to find 
that he slept a good deal,, and quite easily, Mr. Rogers saying 
that he was less feverish. 

"Well, boys, what do you think of the medicine-chest now ? 
Was I not right in being prepared for emergencies ? " 

The boys agreed that it was right, and hoped all the same 
that they would never have to make any demands upon it, either 
for doses or lint and plaister — invaluable in poor Coffee's case 
now. 

Then the lion's skin was admired, and laid out to dry. The 
leopard's followed, and was greatly praised by Mr. Rogers ; and 
indeed it was beautiful in the harmony of its brown and creamy- 
yellow tints. 

" Bedad and that's the very baste," cried Dinny. " I know 
him by that spot at the back of his left ear, and the payculiar 
twisht of his tail. 

" Now, Dinny," said Dick, "how could you tell it again whec 
you saw it for a moment only." 

" An' d'ye think it takes half-an-hour for one of me eyes to 



THE CAPTURE OF A CAT. 131 

catch soight of a craytbure like that, Masther Dick? Sure I 
knowed it the moment I set oise upon it as the very same baste." 

"Then you must have excellent eyesight, Dinny,*' said Mr. 
Rogers. 

'* Sure an' I have that same, sor," said Dinny proudly, as the 
boys next brought out the young leopard, which had to be held 
pretty tightly by the back of the neck to keep it from taking its 
departure, while the dogs gathered round muttering growls, and 
longing to take revenge upon the young leopard for the insult 
put upon them that morning by the mother. 

** I think Dinn/s right, boys," said Mr. Rogers, as he looked 
at the clumsy young leopard, which had a peculiarly heavy 
kittenish aspect. *' I should say it was undoubtedly the mother 
that dashed in after the dogs, her young one making her the 
more daring. 

"Sure an' I knew I was right," said Dinny complacently. 
^ It was an avil-looking baste, in spite of its foine skin." 

"What are you going to do with the leopard.^" said Mr. 
Rogers. 

" Keep it, of course, father," said Jack. 

" I don't see any * of course,* " he replied, smiling ; " but try and 
keep it if you can, though I'm afraid you will find it an awkward 
customer to tame." 

"Well, let us try " said Jack; and setting to work he soon 
contrived a collar of stout wire, which was wrapped round and 
round with thin leather, a dog-chain attached, and then the 
dogs were called by Dick. 

" I say, what are you going to do ?" cried his brother ; " they'll 
kill the poor little thing." 

" Oh no, they will not," said Dick confidently. " Tm going 
to give them a lesson." 

The dogs came bounding up, having been driven away during 
the manufacture of the collar ; and now, evidently under the 
impression that they were to kill the young leopard, they 
became in a high state of excitement. 

K 2 



132 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" Oh, Dick !" cried Jack. " Mind what you are about*' 

** Down, doMrn, down ! " cried Dick sternly ; and the dogs all 
crouched, awaiting the order to attack. ^' Now, Rough*un, smell 
him." 

Rough'un sprang up, and Pompey, Csesar, and Crassus made 
a rush ; but a tap each from the stick Dick held stopped them, 
and laying hold of Rough'un*s ear, Dick pushed the dog*s nose 
close to the vicious-looking little leopard. 

" Now, sir, you're not to touch him ; do you hear ?" 

Rough*un evidently heard, and after smelling at the little 
animal, he looked up in a puzzled way at his master. 

" Lie down, sir," said Dick, and the dog obeyed. " Now, dogs ! 
Pomp, Caesar, Cras, old boy.** 

There was a volley of barks heve, and the dogs evidently 
thought that their time had come ; but a few stern words and a 
sharp tap or two from the stick made them perfectly obedient, 
and they contented themselves with sniffing at the little animal, 
which, on its part, finding that it was not molested by the dogs, 
left off its angry demonstrations, gave each one a gentle dab 
on the nose, and then rolled upon its back and began to play. 

The dogs looked more puzzled than before, Crassus uttering 
a loud whine and giving his strong jaws a snap ; but just then 
Rough'un accepted the invitation to play, and began to pat and 
push the little animal, which responded at once by rushing off 
and dashing back, rolling over, biting playfully, and in less than 
a minute he and the young leopard were leaping one over the 
other and gambolling as eagerly as if they were the oldest of 
friends. 

Pompey also played a little, and Caesar and Crassus looked 
tolerantly on, but they did not join in themselves, beyond smell- 
ing the leopard a few times over. Still there was no fear of 
their molesting the little captive, which was tied up to a wheel 
of the waggon, and from that time became one of the occupants 
of the camp. 



133 



CHAPTER XIX. 

FIRST SIGHT OF OSTRICH. 

As soon as.poor Coflfee showed the slightest sign of amendment, 
he was carefully lifted on to a comfortable bed made for him at 
the back of the waggon, where he lay patiently smiling at those 
who came to look at him ; the oxen were inspanned, and once 
more the waggon creaked and groaned over the rough land 
towards a fresh halting-place. 

Game was plentiful enough, and Dinny always had an ample 
supply for his iron pot, but more than once the difficulties with 
regard to water were very serious, and very long treks had to 
be made before a spring or river could be reached. 

But they pushed steadily on, the excitement of their hunting 
and shooting excursions making them forget the troubles of 
their journey. 

Whenever Mr. Rogers talked of halting and making some 
snugly-sheltered position their headquarters, the General smiled 
and pointed north, promising more wonders if they kept on, 
and finer game. 

Coffee did not seem to suffer much, his greatest trouble being 
his weakness, and the difficulty his surgeon had to deal with 
that of keeping him in his bed ; but he was ver}' patient, and 
grateful for what was done, while the General seemed to wait 
on Mr. Rogers' every look and word as if he would never be 
weary of attending to him. 

They were getting close to the neighbourhood of the river 
Limpopo, when one evening, towards sundown, Mr. Rogers 



134 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

became separated from his sons as they were journeying back 
towards the waggon, in his anxiety to shoot one of the curious 
fox-like animals that he had several times seen but had never 
had a chance to hit. They were beautifully marked, with long 
ears almost like those of a hare, and carried brushes that would 
have made an English fox envious ; but even out there in the 
African wild they seem to partake of the cunning of their 
European relatives, and the more Mr. Rogers tried, the less 
likely he seemed to succeed. 

Upon this occasion he had seen one or two, and in his 
anxiety to obtain a shot he had dashed off into the bpsh, where 
the little animals seemed to delight in luring him on, showing 
for a moment and then disappearing. 

It was a glorious evening, and the sky was one glow of 
warmly-tinted cloud, while his proximity to the waggon, which 
he knew was not far off, kept him from feeling uneasy about 
the others getting back. 

"There it is again," he exclaimed, as he saw the little fox- 
like animal dart amongst the bushes ; and going cautiously in 
pursuit, he went on till the gathering mists of the coming night 
' warned him to return. 

He had hardly turned to make for the waggon when he saw 
something that completely enchained his attention, for looming 
up through the mist, and appearing of almost gigantic size, he 
saw what appeared to be three large ostriches ; but while he 
gazed they seemed to fade away into the evening darkness^ 
and were gone. 

He had not gone far on his way back before he heard voices^ 
and luckily came upon the boys and the General, Chicory hav- 
ing been left behind to attend to his brother. 

" I think I have seen ostriches this evening," said Mr 
Rogers. " Are there many here, general ? " 

The Zulu said No, but that there might be a few. If there were 
any he thought they might get a shot at them for the sake of 
their glorious plumes ; and promising to be on the look-out for 



FIRST SIGHT OF OSTRICH. 




their footprints, they went on chatting nbout tlicm till the 
waggon was reached, to find that a ooupic more waggons, the 



136 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

property of an ivory-trader travelling south, had been out- 
spanned close by, so that there would be company for the 
night. 

The ivory-trader proved to be an intelligent man, and he 
said that there were plenty of elephants in the neighbourhood, 
but warned them to beware of the rhinoceros and crocodile, 
>\ hile he declared that one or two of the tribes farther north 
were worse than cither. 

Lions were heard in the distance, but the fires kept up p*x>ved 
sufHcient to wiirn them o(T, and a very good night was spent ; 
but just as breakfast was being got ready Peter gave the alarm, 
Chicory echoed it ; there was a rush for rifles and guns, and a 
general state of excitement, for live ostriches had suddenly 
made their appearance, right up close to the camp, their tall 
necks with their flat stupid-looking heads undulating like snakes 
above the long grass. 

For a few moments they had appeared to be perfectly astounded 
at the sight of the various strange objects, the waggons and 
their accompaniments. Then the shouts alarmed them, and 
as the guns were handed out of the waggons and the hunts- 
men prepared to fire, the ostriches were getting up speed, run- 
ning faster and faster, till, as Dick said, their legs seemed to 
twinkle ; and the shots that were sent after them, though they 
might have whistled past, had not the good fortune to bring 
them down. 

**\Vcll," exciaimed Dinny who was standing by the fire. 
" Of all the things I ever did see run, ihcm there do beat, and 
no mistake." 

Certainly the speed with which their long, powerful legs sent 
the large birds over the ground was wonderful, and in a very 
short time, long before horses could have been saddled, they 
were out of sight. 

" Why, thim birds can run almost as fast as my big brother," 
said Dinny musingly, as the last ostrich disappeared. 

"Could he run fast, Dinny.?" asked Dick, smiling at his 



FIRST SIGHT OF OSTRICH. 137 

brother, as much as to say, " Now you listen to him, and hear 
what he says." 

^An* is it run fast, he asks?" cried Dinny. *' Why, he was 
the fastest runner in Oireland, and they used to make races for 
him to run, and match him against toime, and he always won. 
Why, wheniver he run he came in widout his boots." 

" Came in without his boots ? " said Jack, laughing. 

** To be sure he did, sor, always. They managed to kape up 
wid him ginerally about half the way, and thin they got so slow 
he always had to lave thim behind." 

** It's a pity we haven't got your big brother here, Dinny," 
said Dick sarcastically. ** He could have caught the ostriches 
for us." 

^ Caught 'em, Masther Dick. I should think he would, in no 
time." 

" Would he have been as much afraid of the lions as you are, 
Dinny?" 

" Hark at him, now," said Dinny, looking round at the dogs, 
which had had a race after the ostriches, and had now come 
back, with their tongues out and curled up at the tip^ as they sat 
there panting. ^ Hark at him now. Jist as if I was the laste 
taste of a bit afraid of all the lions in Africky. Why I says to 
meself, * Dinny,' I says, * ye'll have to tak' care of yerself,' I 
says, * and not let the wild bastes ate ye till ye come back ; for 
what would poor weeny, sickly Masther Dick do widout a good 
cook to make broth and stews to kape him alive ? Take care of 
yerself, Dinny, for the poor sick gossoon's sake ;' and so I do, 
Masther Dick ; for it's not on account of meself, only for you.'' 

** Why you said the other day, Dinny, that it was because of 
your mother," cried downright Jack. 

** And small blame to a man for being fond of his mother, 
Masther Jack. Sure I always was a good son." 

Dinny was always ready with an excuse, and in spite of his 
idleness and downright cowardice, he was generally merry and 
good-humoured, and the first with a laugh. 



138 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

The coming of the ostriches was, however, quite an excite- 
ment, and there was plenty of talk about how to get hold of 
some of them for their plumes ; but nothing was done until the 
strangers had gone, when, after moving on to a more suitable 
place for a few days* camp, and cutting down and piling up the 
thorns for a good safe kraal, whose fence would keep maraud- 
ing beasts from molesting the cattle, glasses were got out, and 
tlie beautiful park-like plain at whose edge they were now en- 
camped, was scanned for game. 

There was no difficulty found in supplying the big pot, and 
finding pieces for a good roast ; for little herds of various kinds 
of antelope were often in sight, and with a fair amount of 
stalking one could generally be brought down. But the great 
aim now was to obtain a few ostriches, and try how they would^ 
these wary birds refused to let them get within shot 

** If we shoot one," said the General quietly, " I get plenty .'* 

But the job was to shoot the first one. The General tried 
creeping continually from bush to bush, out and over the plain ; 
but either the ostriches saw the glint of the sun upon the gun- 
barrel, or caught a glimpse of his dark skin, for they were off 
swift as the wind, with their legs twinkling like the spokes of a 
carriage wheel as they ran. 

Then Mr. Rogers tried again and again with the boys ; but 
they had worse luck than the Zulu, for they never got near 
enough for anything but very doubtful long shots at many 
hundred yards, with the sole result of making the birds more 
shy. 

If they could have known where the ostriches were likely 
to appear, and could have gone and lain wait, the task would 
have been easy ; but the birds came into sight in the most 
out-of-the-way places, and at the most unexpected times, and 
not a plume came to be stuck up as a valuable trophy in the 
waggon. 

The General, clever hunter as he was, felt hurt at his ill-suc- 
cess, and pointed out the reason ; and that was that the few 



FIRST SIGHT OF OSTRICH. 



139 



birds about them had taken refuge here from the pursuit of 
hunters, having been chased most persistently in all the country 
round. 

** You must get an ostrich, Chicory," he said to his son in his 
own language, as the boy was squatted down by his brother, who 
was recovering with rapid strides. 

" Chicory shoot one," said the boy. 

And without a word he went to Dinny, and obtained some strips 
of dried bok for provender^ and then started off upon his quest. 



I40 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



CHAPTER XX. 

DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS. 

Chicory came back the next day, for his brother's assegais, 
having lost his own, as he said, sticking in an ostrich's back. 

** Bring him back soon," he said, as he sat down and ate tre- 
mendously for about an hour, after which he lay down and 
went to sleep by his wounded brother, and did not awake till 
his father came back with a httle bok slung over his shoulder, 
and stirred him with his foot. 

Chicory sprang up as if pricked, and in reply to his father's 
angry words in the Zulu tongue, the boy made a reply which 
calmed the General's wrath directly, and then went away. 

When breakfast was ready the next morning, and Dinny 
brought a number of skewers of wood laden with hot sputter- 
ing venison cutlets, to place before each hungry meal-seeker, 
Chicory was not visible ; and on being asked, Coffee said his 
brother had gone as soon as the lions had left off roaring ; but 
he came back before evening in a wonderful state of excitement, 
begging Dick and Jack to mount their horses and come to 
fetch in the ostrich he had speared. 

" Where is it ? " cried Dick. 

The Zulu boy pointed towards the east, and just then Mr. 
Rogers came up. 

" He has speared an ostrich, father," cried Dick eagerly. 

"Indeed! How did you manage it, Chicory?" said Mr. 

Rogers. 

" So ! " said the boy, throwing himself into a peculiar atti- 
tude, and holding up one arm with the hand bent down, so 



DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS. 141 

that sidewise his figure took something of the aspect of the 
long- necked bird. 

"Then the ostrich must have been stupid," cried Jack, 
laughing. 

** Yes, 'tupid bird," said Chicory, grinning. " Never be 'tupid 
any more. Come fetch him.** 

The horses were soon ready, and they were about to start 
when Dinny expressed a desire to go. 

**Shurc, I haven't sthretched me legs these three days, 
Masther Dick, dear, and I wouldn't mind exercising one of 
the big horses if the Masther loiked." 

But " the masther " didn't ** loike," not feeling disposed to 
trust a valuable animal to Dinn/s tender mercies ; so that 
gentleman turned upon his heel, and went back to the waggon- 
fire in disgust, and sat over it to " warrum " himself, though 
every one else was complaining of the heat. 

It was a long ride, but Chicory did not seemed tired. He 
laid hold of the mane of Dick's or Jack's horse, and ran easily 
along by the side. And had there been any doubt of the spot 
in which the game lay, the vultures going straight in one direc- 
tion would have pointed it out. 

The sun was getting very low as they neared the place to 
which Chicory pointed ; and when they came up a perfect crowd 
of vultures rose, having been seated at a respectful distance, 
watching the bower of sticks with which Chicory had surrounded 
his prize. 

It proved to be a full-grown ostrich, but it was in wretched 
plumage, and a little examination showed that there was a 
reason for Chicory's success, the bird having been shot at and 
a good deal injured. 

It was such a miserable object that it would have been left 
behind had not the little party known that the General wanted 
it for a particular purpose ; so it was strapped on to the back 
of Mr. Rogers's saddle, to the great discomfort of the big bay, 
which immediately began to kick furiously. 



142 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

This kicking process caused the ostrich's long legs and neck 
to fly about and belabour the horse's sides, driving it almost 
frantic, and had he not been securely held he would have 
gone ofT at full gallop over the plain, probably to go on till he 
dropped or was pulled down by the lions. 

" Look at the old drum," cried Dick eagerly ; " and how the 
drumsticks are giving it to his sides," a remark which ensured 
for the old bay horse the nickname of the '' Drum ^ to the end 
of the journey. 

Fortunately for the party the moon in its first quarter was 
well advanced, and as the sunlight faded in the west they had 
the advantage of the soft silvery rays to guide them on their 
way. But all the same, the journey back was toilsome and 
dangerous ; for no sooner did they attempt to go fast— Chicory 
being mounted in turn behind one or other of the boys, than, 
as Dick said, the sticks began to beat the drum, and the drum 
began to go mad, and snort and kick most violently. 

** Ah, father," cried Jack, "what a shame it was you did not 
lend Dinny a horse ; it would have been such fun to have seen 
him with the ostrich tied on behind." 

** Shure, he'd have been kilt intoirely," said Dick, mimicking 
Dinny's accent. 

" I should not envy him his ride if it would have been anything 
like mine," said Mr. Rogers drily. " Hark, boys ! there's a lion." 

" Oomph ! oomph ! " came the low deep roar, like muttering 
thunder at home on a summer's night ; and over and over again 
they noticed the peculiarity of the deep-toned growL For it was 
as if some ventriloquist were imitating the cry in different parts 
of the wilderness. Now it sounded close by, and the horses 
shivered and pawed the ground impatiently ; then it seemed 
a little farther off ; and again it was close by. 

They would gladly have galloped on if it had not been for 
the drumsticks, as Dick called the ostrich's neck and legs, 
these necessitating a very gentle progress ; and all the time the 
deep roar of the lion grew nearer. 



DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS. 143 

**Want the horses," said Chicory. "Two — three — four 
lion." 

He pointed his hand in different directions ; and now it was 
quite evident that that was no animal ventriloquism, but several 
lions attracted by the horses were cautiously approaching so as 
to make a successful spring. 

At last their unpleasant neighbours grew so demonstrative, 
that Mr. Rogers gave the word, and they drew rein at the edge 
of a patch of wood, where there was an abundance of dry brush 
and grass. 

"We must not go any further, boys," exclaimed Mr. Rogers. 
^ Dick, sit fast, and hold the reins of Jack's and my horses. 
We'll jump down and make a fire. Come, Chicory, dead dry 
grass." 

The boy no sooner understood what was wanted than he 
began rapidly to gather up the dry grass into a heap, while Jack 
and his father drew their heavy hunting-knives and chopped off 
the brushwood ; but it was nervous work, for the low, muttering 
roar came ominously close, and at any moment Dick felt that 
one of the great cat-like creatures, which have a terrible hunger 
after horseflesh, might spring upon one of the poor creatures, 
which trembled and whinnied, and tugged at the reins. 

**I shan't do much good, father," cried Dick, "but Tm going 
to shoot where I think the lions are." 

"Yes, fire," cried his father, who was down upon his knees, 
vainly trying to get the dry grass to bum ; "fire as quickly as 
you can load." 

Bang, bang, went Dick's double gun on the instant ; and 
apparently comforted by the noise, and perhaps an instinctive 
knowledge that the firing was for their protection, the horses 
ceased to embarrass their caretaker by tugging to get away, 
and crowded together, pressing one upon the other m their 
dread* 

There was a pause of about a minute's duration, and then the 
lions' cry was heard again a little more distant, but coming 



144 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

nearer and nearer ; and still the fire would not bum, but kept on 
emitting a dense blinding smoke, which hid one great beast from 
Dick's eyes, where he had distinctly seen the animal creeping 
along towards them. Directly after, though, he saw another 
quite plainly in the bright moonlight, creeping cautiously 
onwards, and stooping from time to time as if about to spring. 

Dick had reloaded by this time, and taking careful aim he 
fired again, when there was a furious roar, and they all heard 
quite plainly the snap and gnashing of the monster s teeth. 

" YouVe hit him, Dick. Keep it up, my boy. Chicory, here ! 
Come and blow. I can't get this fire to bum." 

Chicory threw himself upon his hands and knees, and as 
Dick, with agitated fingers, hastily reloaded, and tried to see 
the next lion so as to have a shot at it, there came a deep- 
mouthed roar from behind. Then another and another, and 
the horses grew frantic, for the beasts were evidently going to 
make their attack. 

Dick raised his piece to his shoulder and prepared to fire, 
longing the while for some relief, when, all at once, there was a 
bright flash, and the fire that had refused for so long to bum, 
burst into a brilliant fiame, showing three lions quite plainly, 
creeping along at a short distance ; and as soon as they were a 
little farther off, they began growling again. 

Jack and Chicory had, however, gathered together a goodly 
portion of combustible wood, and there was plenty more at 
hand, so that a roaring fire was soon casting its light away from 
the wood, wh ch somewhat sheltered them behind ; and as soon 
as some of the good- sized pieces of bush were well ablaze. 
Chicory began to send them flying in the directions where a low 
ominous growl or two told that the lions were waiting their 
time. 

Farther progress was impossible, and, with the knowledge 
before them that they would have to pass the night where they 
were, a steady onslaught was kept on at the trees and bushes, 
goodly pieces of which were hacked off and used to feed the fire. 



DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS, 145 

Every now and then, in spite of the blaze, some hungry lion 
would make a charge, one which Dick, being pretty well 
experienced in such matters now, met by hurling a blazing 
stick at the beast, several of which sticks he kept burning and 
ready to his hand. 

For firing in the deceptive light at creatures whose colour 
assimilated so with that of the ground, was not only 
doubtful but dangerous, from its likelihood to wound and 
infuriate the savage beasts. When it was tried before the hre 
blazed up, it was as a last resource, and in the hope that the 
flash might help to intimidate, which, as it happened, in this 
case it did. 

There was very little rest, for, being unprovided with an axe, 
it was hard work to hack off the boughs with the hunting-knives, 
but as the night wore on and their enemies made no determined 
attacks, but, as it were, kept on skirmishing, one of the party 
did have a bit of a nap from time to time, though the horses 
neither ate nor slept, but stood shivering together, most pro- 
bably longing, like their masters, for the morning light. 

It was only natural that Mr. Rogers should feel sincere 
regret that he had left the camp so late in the day, but he told 
himself that it was a lesson, hard as it was to learn ; and the 
boys pretty well took it to heart as they sat there listening 
to the fierce muttering growls that came from all around. 
Nearer and nearer when the fire was allowed to bum a little 
lower, more distant when the blaze sprang up, and a few burn- 
ing pieces were sent whizzing through the air like fireworks, 
Dick being particularly clever at making the burning brands 
spin round Catherine- wheel fashion, blazing furiously as they 
flew. 

That weary night seemed as if it would never end, and to the 
dismay of all, it became very plain that the lions were madly 
excited at the presence of the horses, and that their hunger 
was beginning to make them think less of the fire and the burn- 
ing brands. 



146 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

So close were two or three of the rushes that it was all Mr. 
Rogers and his sons could do to keep the horses from dashing 
away, one lion in particular coming so well into sight that 
Jack could not resist the temptation to fire ; and so well placed 
was the bullet that the lion fell paralyzed, and lay struggling 
impotently, till a second well-aimed bullet put an end to its 
pain. 

This was one enemy the less, but matters looked more 
ominous than ever, for the supply of wood within reach was 
exhausted, and the last armful had produced more smoke than 
blaze. 

There seemed to be nothing else for it then but to mount and 
ride for their lives, irrespective of the darkness, and trust to 
their good fortune to bring them safe away. 

" When I give the word * Mount ! ' leap on your horses, and 
dash off," said Mr. Rogers at last, for the mutterings of the 
lions were growing nearer and nearer. 

*' And how about you, father ? " asked Dick. 

** I shall be close behind you, my boy." 

" And Chicory ? " said Jack. 

" I shall cut the ostrich loose, and Chicory will jump up be* 
hind me, and hold on as best he can.** 

*' Let him come behind me, father," said Dick. 

•' No, behind me," cried Jack. 

" Silence ! *' exclaimed Mr. Rogers. " There is no time for 
argument. Be ready. We'll all throw at the lions together as 
they come on, and then mount and off before they recover from 
their confusion." 

Each stood to his horse's head then, and held a piece of blazing 
wood ready — when Mr. Rogers uttered a thankful sigh. 

" Morning at last, my boys ! " he exclaimed, as a faint light 
began to make the trees around visible ; and by rapid degrees 
the fire began to pale, and the various objects grow more plain. 

Then there were a few golden clouds high up above their 
heads ; and the big bay suddenly uttered a loud neigh, which 



DRUMSTICKS AND LIONS. 



147 



was answered by a roar close at hand. But Dick hurled his 
burning brand in that direction, and there was a savage snar^ 
after which the weary party had peace, for the lions seemed to 
have departed. While the moment the sun's edge appeared 
above the plain, all mounted, and keeping a sharp look-out, went 
off at full gallop towards the camp. 

They reached it without molestation, the horses seeming al- 
most to fly ; and there they found that all had been very uneasy, 
and that they had passed the night keeping up a blazing fire, 
and firing guns at intervals, so as to guide them back. 

" But it's a wonder ye found us at all at all, sor," said 
Dinny. 

" Why } " asked Mr. Rogers. 

" Shure, sor, the lions have been rampaging around the wag- 
gon the whole night through, and I had to kape them off by 
throwing burning sthicks and shouting at *em, for Pater and 
Dirk were about as much good as a couple of babbies, and the 
big Sooloo went to slape and snored." 

"That's just what Vm going to do, Dinny," said Jack, 
yawning. 

And to show that he meant it, no sooner had he tied up and 
seen to his horse, than he threw himself down, his example 
being followed by the others, so that it was getting close upon 
noon before breakfast was attacked. 



L 2 



148 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXL 

A LESSON IN OSTRICH HUNTING. 

That same afternoon Dick, who had taken the glass and 
mounted a tree for a look round, announced ostriches in sight, 
and the General smiled and said it was his turn now. 

While the others had slept he had been very busy, skinning 
the ostrich, and stuffing its long neck, and, to the astonishment of 
Dinny, he placed four or five little assegais ready, and then threw 
the skin of the ostrich over his head and shoulders, holding up 
the head by means of a stick run through the neck, and then, 
turning on one side, only his bare legs were visible. 

Jack burst into a roar of laughter, and Chicory began to get 
rid of his superfluous excitement in his usual way — by dancing 
round and round and indulging in a few kicks and jumps. 

It was a very clumsy imitation of an ostrich, but experience 
had often proved it to be sufficiently near to beguile the great 
birds, especially when, after stalking ajong for a short distance, 
the head was lowered to the ground, for there were the head, 
neck, and feathers, and that seemed enough for the birds. 

Thus accoutred, then, the General moved out of camp, laugh- 
ingly asking that no one should follow and shoot him by mistake 
for one of the birds. 

The three boys followed, Dick carrying a glass ; and poor 
Coffee wistfully watched their departure. 

They could not, however, go fiir, lest they should scare the 
birds, so they kept in the cover of the wood for nearly a mile, 
and then stood watching the proceedings of Chicory's father. 

The General went steadily on, with the ostrich's bead held 



yi lessojV in ostrtchhvnt/nc. 




well erect ; but every now and then he paused, lowered the long 
neck, and seemed to be engaged in feeding ; and at such times 



I50 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

he walked sidewise and away from the little group of three 
ostriches, which were feeding about a mile away. 

As the Zulu got to be more distant, his motions had a very 
natural appearance ; so much so that Dick and Jack began to 
feel that had they seen him without being prepared, they would 
certainly have had a shot at him, beheving him to be the real 
thing. 

He took advantage of ever>' bit of cover he could see, passing 
amongst the trees and bushes, and whenever he was out of 
sight, hastening his steps till he was nearly abreast of the 
ostriches, when he came into sight again. 

As he did so the three birds paused in their feeding, ran to- 
gether, and for a moment it seemed as if all the labour was 
about to be lost. It was very plain that they were diligently 
scrutinizing the new comer ; and this \\'as the critical time. A 
moment's haste, the slighest false move, and the three birds 
would have gone off like the wind. But as they saw the stranger 
turn a little away from them^ lower its head, and apparently 
make a dart at some great beetle or locust amongst the herbage, 
and then hunt out another and another, their timidity passed 
away, they troubled themselves no more about the new comer, 
and went on feeding. 

It was very interesting to watch the disguised Zulu, apparently 
feeding away from the ostriches, but all the time softly edging 
himself nearer and neaier. 

" Oh, I say ! what stupids they are ! '* said Jack. " Look at 
his legs. They am't a bit like ostrich legs, and yet they don't 
see." 

*' All 'toopids," said Chicory delightedly. " Wait a bit.** 

From where they stood the General now seemed to be touching 
the wary birds ; but this could not be the case they knew ; and 
they stood watching attentively, taking the greatest of care not 
to show themselves, lest they should alarm the ostriches, for 
experience had shown them that they would dash off if they 
saw any one a mile away. 



A LESSON IN OSTRICH-HUNTING, 151 

** Now look/' cried Dick excitedly. " Look ! *' 

For the biggest bird of the group had suddenly seemed to 
take umbrage at the appearance of the stranger, and stalking 
straight up to it darted its head sharply, evidently giving a 
vicious peck. 

The next instant it was seen to make a bound forward, and 
fall over upon its side, apparently kicking feebly. 

The other two raised their heads and seemed alarmed ; but 
one began feeding again, and the other stalked gravely up to 
continue the punishment the first had commenced. 

This time, by the help of the glass, Dick saw the Zulu stoop 
down, and deliver a thrust with an assegai, and this bird 
toppled forward and fell. 

The third seemed alarmed, but it did not take flight, only 
stood still while the General, imitating the gait of the other birds, 
ran up alongside it, and seemed to be staring like the other at 
the fallen birds. 

This time they saw no motion on the General's part, only 
that the third he struck suddenly took to running at a tremen« 
dous rate, but dropped like a stone before it had gone a quarter 
of a mile, and the General rid himself of what must have been 
a very hot and uncomfortable disguise, and mounting an ant- 
hill signalled to them to come. 

" Three ostriches," cried Dick delightedly ; " their feathers 
ought to be worth a great deal. Run back and fetch my father, 
Chicory.*' 

But there was no need, for Mr. Rogers had seen the ma- 
noeuvres of his follower, and now came out of the camp, followed 
by Dinny. 

** Ah," said the latter to the boys, ** it was moighty well done, 
and I've come to help pick the big birds. They tell me that 
some of the payple here kape the horse-stretches like chickens 
in Connaught, and that they lay beautiful foine new-laid eggs. 
Bedad, one of them ladies ought to lay a dacent-sized Qgg, and 
I wouldn't mind having one for breakfast by way of a change." 



152 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



It was with no little delight then that Dick pointed out the 
fact to Dinny that they were all cock-birds, when they got up 
and found each had been pierced through the heart with an 
assegai. 

Their plumage was splendid, and after a g^eat deal of tough, 
hot work several bundles of the valuable feathers were made 
up and carried to the camp, to spread out and dry and then 
store away, to help pay for the expenses of the trip. 

The party had hardly turned their backs upon the denuded 
birds before the vultures, which had been gathering for some 
time, suddenly began to drop down to act their part of 
scavengers ; and before night fell, there were only a few scat- 
tered bones to show where the ostriches had been. 



153 



CHAPTER XXII. 

LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP : 'WARE SNAKES. 

Coffee was gathering strength every day, and the wounds in 
his healthy young flesh healing rapidly. So much better was 
he that there was no occasion to study him any longer on the 
question of danger in moving, so the well-fed oxen were in- 
spanned, and a few more treks brought the party to one of the 
tributaries of the Limpopo, whose main stream they hoped to 
reach on the following day. 

The country here was much less regular, and the work for 
the oxen grew more difficult, but they found capital quarters, with 
plenty of good grass, strong thorn bush for a kraal ; and as the 
place promised sport, and plenty of natural history specimens 
amongst the rocks and rifts into which the land was broken, 
Mr. Rogers determined to rest here for a day or two. 

So a kraal was formed, the cattle sent to graze ; the boys 
mounted Shoes and Stockings, and starting to get something in 
the way of game, were pretty successful, bringing in a plump 
young bok ; and as evening came on and they were resting, 
Dinny suddenly made his appearance with a long stout stick 
and a line. 

"Pve been looking,** he said, "and there's some moighty 
foine water close by here, and a bit of salmon wouldn't be 
amiss.** 

•* There are no salmon here, Dinny," said Dick. 

" Then there are some good big fish, anyhow,*' said Dinny : 
and he went off some fifty or sixty yards to where the narrow 
little stream ran at the bottom of rather a steep declivity. 



154 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



** Mind you don't have any of the gintlemen throwing stones 
at you, Dinny," shouted Dick. 

" Ah, you'd better be careful," said Mr. Rogers, smiling. 
*¦ Those rocks look a likely place for baboons." 

'¦ Whist, schah ! " exclaimed Dinny contemptuously ; " as if 
I'd be afraid of a monkey ;" and he soon disappeared from 
sight. 

The sole coolness of the evening was creeping on, the 
occupants of the little camp were restfully listening to ttie crop, 
rrap! of the cattle, and Mr. Rogers was about to give orders for 
them to be driven into the kraal, when the peace of the camp 
was broken by a loud ciy from towards the litde river. 

" Murlher ! help ! masther dear. Help, or it's dead lllbe !" 



^H 


^^.*^'^ 


^^#&?^ 


it^ 


^^^^^^Bst^MKr 


^Im^ '' 


;^y 


etlcd the familiar 
o cc of D nny. 
Guns always lay 
handy, and they 
were seiicd, and all 
ran towards where 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP: 'WARE SXAKES, 155 

Dinny was yelling for help, a sharp look-out being kept for 
baboons. 

** I dare say they've attacked him," said Mr. Rogers. " They 
are very vicious, and tremendously strong. Why where is he ? 
Dinny! Dinny!" 

•*He-e-ar ! Help !" cried Dinny. And running in the direc- 
tion of the sound, they came upon Dinny's boot-soles, and were 
just in time to save him from gliding into the little river, head 
first, the tuft of grass to which he was clinging having given 
way. 

•* An* did ye see the murthering baste ? '* cried Dinny, who 
looked white through his sunbuming 

•* No, I saw nothing," cried Mr. Rogers. 

*• Ah, but he's down there in the muddy water. Shure Td 
caught one great ugly fat fish like an overgrown son of an eel ; 
there he lies where he wriggled himself," said Dinny, pointing 
to a fine silurus lying in a niche of the rock. ''And Td hooked 
another, when a great baste of a thing wid the wickedest oi ye 
ever see, and a smile as wide as the mouth of the Shannon, 
up and looked at me. *0h, murtherl' I says; and he 
at me, and showed me what a fine open countenance 
he had; and just then the big fish I'd hooked made a dash, 
?«^ gave such a tug that I slipped as I lay head downwards, 
bechuckst thim two bits o' bushes, and I couldn't get mcself back 

••Why, there's the fish on the line still," cried Jack, seizing 
the rough rod, and tr>'ing to land the captive of Dinny's hook. 

••Ah, and ye'U take care, Masther Dick, for I belave it's that 
great baste has swallowed the fish, and ye'U be pulling him to 

land." 

Dinny was not right ; and full of excitement, Jack was trying 
hard to land the fish, when there was a rush and a swirl in the 
water, and as they caught sight of the head and jaws of a good- 
sized crocodile the line was snapped, and the little party stood 
gazing at the muddy stream. 



156 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

^ Shure an' that's him," said Dinny. " Did ye ever see such 
a baste ? * 

*' A warning not to bathey*" said Mr. Rogers ; and after 
watchfully waiting to see if the reptile would give them an 
opportunity for a shot, they walked back to the camp, Dinny 
carr>*ing his fish, and bemoaning the loss of the other and his 
tackle. 

"How big should you think that was, father?" said Dick. 

** About twelve feet long, to judge from the size of his head " 
said Mr. Rogers. ^ You must be careful, boys, and mind that 
the cattle are watched when they go down to drink. The 
crocodiles are most objectionable beasts, and I suppose the 
Limpopo and its tributaries swarm with them." 

They seemed now to have got into quite a reptilian paradise. 
Low do^-n by the river the land was swampy, hot, and steamy 
to a degree ; and here amidst the long rank reeds, canes, and 
herbage the crocodiles revelled, while water-lizards of great size 
made their tracks along the banks. Higher up out of the 
ravine where the river ran, the land was rocky and full of 
nooks and comers, which the sun seemed literally to bake. 
Here came flies innumerable, buzzing and stinging viciously 
when their abode was invaded, and over and about the sun- 
parched rocks the various kinds of lizards swarmed, and preyed 
upon the flics and beetles. 

They were very beautiful, these flies and beetles, and lizards — 
the former with their brilliant colours and gauzy wings, the 
latter in their jewelled and polished armour, often of the 
most brilliant metallic tints, and always glistening in the 
sun. 

Hundreds of the brightly armoured beetles were captured, and 
transferred to the boxes kept for the purpose ; but it was 
dangerous work, for poisonous snakes lurked amongst these 
sun-baked rocks, twisted in sleepy knots, and so like in hue to 
the stones amongst which they lay that a foot might at any 
moment be inadvertently placed upon them. 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP : 'WARE SNAKES, 157 

Jack had an adventure of this kind the very day after their 
arrival 

There had been some talk of going, as the General proposed, 
after one or other of the herds of antelope feeding upon a plain 
a couple of miles distant ; but Mr. Rogers said the larder was 
well filled, and his idea of a pleasant hunting trip was not one 
where mere butchery was the rule, but where a sufficiency was 
Jcilled for their daily use. 

" By all means, let us destroy such noxious animals as we 
come across," he said ; " and I am keen sportsman enough to 
want to shoot some of the large game ; but let us be naturalists, 
boys, and not simply slayers of all we see.*' 

The result was that they spent that day collecting insects and 
small reptiles. Chicory accompanying them to carry a large 
open-mouthed bottle of spirits with .stopper and sling, and the 
glass protected by a stout network of soft copper wire. 

Into this spirit-bottle little vipers, scorpions, spiders, and 
similar creatures, were dropped. Chicory holding the stopper, 
and throwing back his head and grinning with delight as some 
wriggling little poisonous creature was popped in. In fact, 
Chicory was an indefatigable hunter of great things and small, 
taking readily to natural history pursuits ; but he had his 
drawbacks, one of which was a belief that the little snakes and 
tiny lizards dropped into the spirits of wine were to make some 
kind of soup ; and he had to be stopped just in time to prevent 
his well amalgamating the contents of the great flask by giving 
it a good shake up. 

" Dere's one. Boss Dick. Dere's nother one, Boss Jack," he 
kept on saying, his quick restless eyes discovering the various 
objects long before his English companions. 

They were up in one of the superheated rifts among the rocks, 
with the sun pouring down so powerfully that the whole party 
were very languid and disposed to seek the first shelter, when an 
incident that might have had a fatal termination came upon 
them like a shot. 



153 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Jack vus in advance, and aboat to climb up to a shelf of 
reck in pursuit of some brilliant little lizards that were darting 
in and oct of the crevices when Chicory shouted out, — 

"• Boss Jack : mind snake ! ^ 

It was too lace. There was a great dust-coloured puff-adder 
lying in his way, with its thick dmnsy body nestled in amongst 
the hot stones ; and even as the Zulu boy's warning was uttered. 
Jacks boot pressed heavily upon the lower part of the dan* 
gerous reptile's body. 

Sluggish and dull before, this assault brought the reptile into 
a state of acti\'ity that was almost wonderful, and before Jack 
could realize his peril the short thick viper had struck twice 
at his leg. Before, howe\-er, it could strike again, its head lay 
upon the stones, cut off by a blow from Chicory's long-bladed 
assegai, and the body of the dangerous beast was writhing 
amongst and rattling the stones. 

^ Chicory 'fraid he broke a bottle,^ said the boy, who had 
dropped it in his excitement. 

But the flask and its natural history contents formed a very 
minor consideration just then. 

"Are you hurt, my boy ?" cried Mr. Rogers quickly. " Sit 
down there. Here, Dick, the spirit-flask. Now then, draw up 
your trouser-leg.^ 

Jack obeyed, and Mr. Rogers immediately stripped down the 
lad's rough worsted stocking, taking out his penknife and pre- 
paring to make the tiny punctures bleed freely, and to suck the 
fatal poison from the wounds. 

"Does it pain you much?" said Mr. Rogers excitedly ; and 
his hands trembled for a moment, but only to grow strong directly. 

" No," said Jack stoically. 

*• Don't be afraid, my boy ; be a man. Now where was it ?** 

" I won't be afraid," replied Jack. " I won't mind the knife, 
father." 

"Quick! Show me. Where was the wound?" exclaimed 
Mr, Rogers. 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP: 'WARE SNAKES. 159 

•*I don't know. It bit at me twice," replied Jack; "some- 
where below the knee/ 

" These creatures' teeth are like needles," said Mr. Rogers. 
** Look, Dick ; can you see ? two tiny punctures together .'* " 

** Would it bleed, father ?" said Dick. 

'' Most likely not" 

** I don't see the wound, father." 

" Nor I, my boy ; but my head swims, and I feel giddy. It 
is as if there was a mist before my eyes. Oh, my boy ! my boy ! " 

•* Snake never bite um at all," cried Chicory sturdily. "All 
swellum and look blue by dis time. Only bite leggum trousers." 

Jack burst into a roar of laughter, and a strange reaction took 
pIace,for Chicory was undoubtedly right : the loose trouser-leg had 
caught the virulent little reptile's fangs, and averted the danger. 

For there was no gainsaying the matter. Jack felt nothing 
the matter with him, when, if he had been injured, he would 
have been under the influence of the terribly rapid poison by 
then, whereas he was ready to jump up and laugh at the mistake. 

He did not laugh much, however, for his father's serious looks 
checked him. And soon after, when they were alone, Mr. 
Rogers said something to his son about thankfulness for his 
escape which brought the tears into the boy's eyes. The next 
nunute, though, father and son joined hands, and no more was 
said. 

It was another warning to be careful, and of the many dangers 
by which they were surrounded, and the boys promised to- tem- 
per their daring with more discretion for the future. 

They afterwards called that the reptile day, for the number of 
scaly creatures they saw was prodigious. 

" But I want to see one of those tremendously great boa con- 
strictors," said Dick, " one of the monsters you read of in books." 

" As big round as the mast of a man-of-war, and as long, ch ? ' 
said his father. 

"Yes," said Dick. 

"Then I'm afraid, my boy, that you will be disappointed, foi 



i6o OFF TO THE WILDS. 

from my own experience I think those creatures exist only in the 
imaginations of writers. I dare say they may grow to thirty 
feet long, but you may take a boa of eighteen or twenty feet as a 
monster, and as big as you are likely to see. That was a very 
large serpent )*ou shot in the valley there.** 

**0h/' said Dick ; " I don*t call that a long one." 

** This is just the sort of place to find a large one, I should 
s;\y," a)ntinucd Mr. Rogers, ** Hot, dry, stony places for basking, 
and dense, hot, steamy nooks down by the little river and 
lugoi^ns where it would be likely to lie in wait for its prey.** 

But though they looked well about, they saw nothing, and 
the heat having now become intense, they found a clump of 
trees close by a trickling streamlet that ran along from the 
rocks to the river, and sat down to rest and eat their lunch. 

They felt too drowsy and tired with their morning's walking to 
care to do much in the afternoon, and they were quietly looking 
over their captures after shifting their places twice to get out of 
the sun as the shadow swept on, when Dick suddenly caught his 
father's arm, and pointed towards the rocks. 

*' What's that shining over there?" he said quickly. 

Chicory had been asleep the moment before, but Dick's 
movement and question roused him on the instant, and he 
glanced in the direction indicated. 

" liig snake '' he said decisively. ** Chicory go and kill um.** 

The boy ran towards the rocks, and, picking up their guns, the 
rest followed — to see that it was a large serpent from whose scales 
the sun had gleamed. They could not even guess at its length, 
it was so knotted up in folds ; but its body was nearly as big 
round as that of Chicory, who seemed in nowise afraid of the 
great reptile, but picked up a mass of rock larger than his head, 
balanced it on one hand, and advanced towards the sleeping 
serpent, which had chosen one of the hottest portions of the 
rock for its siesta. 

" Yap ! yap ! yap ! ** shouted Chicory ; and the creature moved 
slowly, its whole body seeming to be in motion. 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP : 'WARE SNAKES. i6i 

This was not enough for Chicory, who drew his kiri out of his 
waistband, and threw it heavily at the reptile. 

This seemed to rouse it into action, and after a more rapid 
gliding of one coil over the other, the creature's evil-looking 
head rose up, hissing menacingly at its disturber, who raised the 
piece of rock with both hands above his head, and dashed it 
down upon the serpent's crest, crushing it to the ground, after 
which the boy nimbly leaped away, to avoid the writhing of 
its body and the 6erce whipping of the creature's tail 

"WeU done, Chicory, my brave boy,** cried Mr. Rogers, 
patting the Zulu lad upon the shoulder. 

** Yes, Chicory very brave boy," said the lad, smiling com- 
placently, and quite innocent of his words sounding conceited. 
" Chicory kill all big snake for boss. Boss boys very kind to 
Coffee, and father love 'em." 

This was a long speech for Chicory, who nodded and smiled, 
and ended by waiting his opportunity, and then seizing the 
boa's tail and running away with it to stretch the creature out. 
But it was too heavy, and its writhings continued even after 
the boys had fired a charge of small shot at close quarters 
through the reptile's head. 

They wanted to measure it, but that was impossible from its 
writhings. Mr. Rogers, however, made an approximate cal- 
culation, and then said, quietly, — 

*^ I should say it was as near as can be nineteen feet long, 
and unusually large in girth." 

"Oh, father," cried Jack; "it must be thirty-nine feet 
long." 

"Ah, Jack, my boy," replied his father, laughing, "that's 
old travellers' measurement ; and they always allowed six feet 
to the yard — that is, twenty-four inches to the foot ; and that*s 
why ourang-outangs, and whales, and serpents were always so 
large." 

But they had not yet arrived at the end of their reptile ad- 
ventures. 

M 



1 62 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



They waited for some time to see if the boa would cease its 
writhings ; but the muscular contractions still continuing, and the 
dark tortoiseshell-like markings of brown and yellow and black 
glistening in the sun quite two hours after the creature might 
reasonably have been said to be killed, they gave it up and went 
further afield. 

** Suppose we leave this series of red-hot rocks, boys, and go 
down towards the water. From the appearance of thei country 
over yonder I fancy that the stream widens out into a lake." 

" How do you know, father ? " asked Dick. 

" From the character of the trees and other growth. Don't 
you see how much more leafy and luxuriant it looks. Keep 
your eyes well opened and your pieces ready. I dare say we 
may meet with a rare bird or two, perhaps some kind of water- 
buck— ready for the camp to-morrow ! " 

As Mr. Rogers had predicted, a couple of miles walking 
brought them to what in parts was quite a marsh full of canes 
and reeds ; but every here and there were beautiful pools of 
breeze-rippled water, spread with lovely hlies and other water- 
plants, while the edges were fringed with willow-like wands and 
waving sedges. 

So beautiful was the scene where the little river widened, and 
wound through the low ground, that as they wandered about 
amongst the firmer ground they forbore to shoot, but paused 
from time to time to watch the lovely plumage of the various 
ducks and cranes that made the lagoons their home. 

Not a shot then had been fired, and as they wandered in and 
out they found plenty to take their attention. Every here and 
there Chicory found for them some nest in amongist the reeds — 
the nursery of duck or crane. But the most interesting thing 
that they saw in the shape of nests was that of a kind of sociable 
grossbeak, a flock of which had built a town in a large tree, 
quite a hundred nests being together in common; while in 
another tree, whose branches drooped over the water, there 
were suspended dozens of a curiously woven bottle-shaped nest. 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP: 'WARE SNAKES, 163 

with its entrance below, to keep the young birds from the attack 
of snakes. 

" What's that noise ?" said Jack, suddenly, as he was on about 
a quarter of a .mile ahead with his brother, Mr. Rogers being 
busily transferring some water-beetles to Chicory's spirit-bottle, 
which escaped breaking after all from the toughness of the wire. 

^ I don't know," replied Dick. *' It sounds like some animal. 
And there's a scuffling noise as well. 

** It's just like a cow moaning, a very long way off. I wonder 
what it is ? " 

" I don't think it's a long way off. It seems to me to be 
pretty close." 

They moved about among the reeds and bushes, but could 
see nothing. 

** I know what it is," said Jack, laughing. " It's some kind of 
big frog or toad : they live in such marshy places as this, and 
they croak and make noises that seem to be ever so far off, 
when they are close by." 

" Oh I Look. Jack ! Oh, poor thing ! " cried his brother. 

"Where? Where?" 

** Over yonder, across the water." 

Jack caught sight of the objects that had taken his brother's 
attention, and for a few moments the boys seemed passive spec- 
tators of the horrible scene. 

Across the lagoon, and some fifty yards away, a. beautiful 
antelope, with gracefully curved spiral horns, had apparently 
come out of the bushes to drink, at a point of land running a 
little way into the lake, when it had been seized by a hideous- 
looking crocodile. The monster's teeth-armed jaws had closed 
upon the unfortunate antelope's muzzle, and a furious struggle 
was going on, during which, as it uttered its piteous feeble low- 
ing noise, something between the cry of a calf and a sheep, the 
crocodile, whose tail was in the water on the side of the point 
farthest from where the spectators stood, was striving to drag 
its prey into the lagoon. 

M 2 



i&t CFF TV THE UVLDS. 




The antelope made a brave struggle, but the tremendous grip 
of the reptile, and its enormous weight, rendered the efforts of 



LOOK BEFORE YOU STEP: 'WARE SNAKES, 165 

the poor beast vain : and as the boys gazed across, they saw the 
poor brute dragged down upon its knees and chest, and the 
crocodile shuffling slowly back into the water, an inch at a 
time. 

** Oh, the poor, poor beast ! " cried Dick piteously. " Oh, 
Jack, how dreadful ! " 

" Poor old crocodile ! " said Jack coolly, for he had now re- 
covered himself. " If he's going to eat all that buck for his 
dinner he'll suffer from indigestion. I say, Dick, let's give him 
a couple of pills. 

As he spoke, Jack sank upon one knee in the reeds so as to 
rest his rifle well, and catching at his brother's idea, Dick fol- 
lowed suit. 

" Take a good, steady aim, Dick, right behind his eye, so as 
not to hit the antelope : and when I say fire, pull trigger as 
softly as you can. Take it coolly. Ready ? " 

" Yes." 

"Fire!" 

It was none too soon, for the antelope was being dragged 
along, growing more helpless and its struggles more faint moment 
by moment, while the body of the crocodile Ai'as disappearing 
backwards down the slope of the point of land. 

But that loathsome-looking head was still visible, dragging 
the helpless, striving antelope, whose piteous rolling eyes could 
be plainly seen by the boys. 

The next instant, though, they had concentrated their gaze on 
the gleaming orb of the crocodile, thro^Mi all their power of 
nen'e into that aim, and, so as not to disturb their rifle-sights by 
the slightest movement, softly drew trigger. 

The reports of the rifles were almost simultaneous, and for 
a few moments the boys could see nothing for smoke : but as 
the tiny cloud of vapour lifted, they looked eagerly across. 

There was nothing to be seen. 



1 66 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

AN INTERFERENCE WITH WASHING, AND THE RESULT. 

"Oh," cried Jack, **we both missed, and he has drawn the 
poor thing in." 

" I don't believe I missed,'* said Dick. ** No : look, Jack ! " 

For at that moment they saw a movement amongst the 
undergrowth behind where the antelope had been kneeling ; 
and the poor beast, with bleeding nostrils and starting eyes, 
staggered down to the water's edge, drank with avidity, and 
then bounded back as another or the same crocodile half leaped 
out of the water to catch it. 

But the antelope, weak and exhausted though it was, es- 
caped, and bounded away into the dense reeds, while Jack as 
he coolly reloaded his rifle-barrel said, — 

** Nice place this, Dicky. Let's take our clothes off and 
have a bathe." 

" Ugh I " shuddered Dick. " The monsters." 

" What have you shot, boys ? " said Mr. Rogers, hurrying 
up. '* I was afraid it was an accident, the two rifles went off 
like one." 

They told him, and being eager to see if there was any trace 
of the crocodile, they went round the shores of the little lake 
to the other side of the point, for the river wound so that the 
incident took place on their own bank ; but for a few minutes 
they could see nothing but muddy water. 

" I'm afraid you did not kill him, boys," said Mr. Rogers. 

** But we frightened him off"," cried Jack ; " and that's some- 
thing." 



AN INTERFERENCE WITH WASHING. 167 

" Chicory find him ; look ! " cried the boy, pointing where he 
stood. 

They went to his side, and there sure enough, with its light 
underparts showing, lay a great crocodile, its tail moving feebly to 
and fro, and, most satisfactory sight of all to the boys, a couple 
of threads of blood rising slowly from the monster's head through 
the clear water. 

-Hah I" 

It was Chicory who shouted, and as he did so he struck 
back his young masters. For his quick eyes had seen what 
looked like a dark shadow in the river ; and his effort was just 
in time, for a huge crocodile threw itself half out of the water, 
disappearing again with a sullen plunge as it missed its prey. 

"I think that will do for to-day, boys," said Mr. Rogers. 
" Let's get back to the waggon. For my part I feel d'sposed 
to spend the rest of our time shooting crocodiles, so as to try 
and rid the country of a few of the pests.*' 

'* Only all we could kill would be as nothing, would they, 
father ? " said Dick. 

"No, they would hardly count,** replied Mr. Rogers; and 
they made the best of their way back to the waggon, only too 
glad of the meal Dinny had ready for them, roast and boiled. 

Chicory turned a rough kind of somersault as he caught 
sight of his brother sitting up and doing that which was dear 
to Chicory's own heart — eating ; and as there was a good share 
of food beside Coffee, the tired brother made no scruple about 
going to join him and help him eat 

It was wonderful what that boy could eat when he was 
thoroughly hungry. Dinny would stare at him, rub his ears, 
and screw up his face with a look of disgust, while the very 
dogs seemed envious of his powers. Rough'un would wait 
patiently for some time bearing it all apparently as he abided 
his own time ; but when he saw Chicory keep steadily on he 
began to bark furiously, as if such behaviour were not to be 
borne. 



i6S OFF TO THE WILDS, 

** Shure, Masther Dick, it's my honest belafe," said Dinny, 
that if you put down enough mate before them two Sooloo 
boys they'd kape on ating till the)' got to be hungry again.** 

In spite of the heat of the weather, the performances of 
Dick and Jack upon strong venison essence and roast gazelle 
were enough to stanle any housekeeper of small income and 
an anxiety about the state of the butcher's bill. But of course 
the outdoor life and constant exertion produced a tremendous 
appetite ; and as Mr. Rogers noted the change in Dick, whose 
palate had to be tempted only a short time back, he felt thank- 
ful to see the difference. 

Dinny had outdone himself that day in the matter of cookery ; 
and a hearty meal having been eaten, the bo>'S spent half-an- 
hour with their pets, the leopard being so far particularly docile, 
and their horses whinnying with satisfaction as soon as they 
heard their masters' steps. Then there were the cattle to look 
at, all of which were sleek and well ; and lastly, the various 
specimens to arrange before going to rest. 

The sun was getting low by this time, and the stillness of the 
wilds was only broken by the twittering of a little flock of birds 
in the adjacent trees, when Dinny came running from the river- 
side — 

'* Hoi, sor ! bring the roifles, an' ye plaze. Here's Pater being 
swallowed down by one of thim great crocodivils ! " 

" Quick, boys ! " cried Mr. Rogers ; but there was no need to 
speak, for the rifles had been already seized, and away the little 
party ran, towards the river. 

The water was not visible till they were close upon it, on 
account of the conformation of the land ; but when they did 
come in sight, the scene was so curious that they halted with 
cocked pieces, gazing down from the rocks at black Peter the 
driver. 

Peter being a particularly cleanly man had taken a pair of 
his linen drawers down to the stream to wash, with Dinny sit* 
ting on the edge of the rock smoking his pipe, and looking on. 



AN INTERFERESCE WITH WASHING. 169 

All had gone well till Peter was beating the garment about 
in the water for a linal rinse, when suddenly the jaws of a huge 
crocodile were protruded from the surface, not a yard away. 
As might have been expected, Peter dropped his drawers. 




and daited back, while the crocodile remained staring at him, 
and Dinny rushed off shouting for help. 

They learned afterwards that what they had now seen had 
been repeated several times. For just as Ihey paused, Peter 
was creeping cautiously forn'ard towards where his drawers lay 
upon the sand, stooping with outstretched t\%nd\n %<i\i£ >^«;k\. 



170 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

when there was the slightest disturbance possible in the water, 
and the head of a monstrous crocodile appeared. 

Back darted Peter, and the head of the crocodile sank slowly 
beneath the water, when, unaware that help was at hand, Peter 
waited a minute or two, and then once more stole gently and on 
tiptoe towards his much-coveted garb. 

This time his hand was almost upon it when out came the 
crocodile's head, and Peter nimbly darted back, but only to come 
un again as quietly as possible, apparently quite ignorant of the 
fact that it was by the eye that the reptile distinguished his 
coming, and not by ear. 

Twice more was this watched, when Mr. Rogers, feeling 
alarmed lest the driver should be too venturesome, whispered 
to his sons to shoot. 

*' No, father ,** whispered back Dick ; ** we want to see you 
shoot this one." 

Mr. Rogers hesitated a moment, and then lying down upon 
his chest he rested the barrel of his rifle on the edge of the rock 
where it went perpendicularly down to the little strand, and 
waited for the next appearance of the dangerous monster. 

He had not long to wait, for Peter seemed to be determined 
this time to make sure of his garment, and cautiously stealing 
forward he had almost touched it, when out came the croco- 
Ciile's head once more, and as Peter darted back it remained 
stationary, its hideous eyes watching the black driver, when Mr. 
Roger's rifle spoke out, and Peter fell upon his back, yelling 
for help ; while the stream, that had quietly rippled over where 
the crocodile lay, was suddenly beaten by the monster's struggles 
into a tempest of foam. 

"Are ye kilt. Pater, ma black bouchal?" cried Dinny 
piteously, as he leaped down to the aid of his fellow-servant. 

" Mind the crocodile, Dinny," shouted Dick maliciously. 

*• Oh ! murther 1 " roared Dinny ; and he scrambled up the 
rock again, and sat there panting, as the boys roared with 
laughter. " Ah, and it's moighty funny, I've no doubt, Masther 



AN INTERFERENCE WITH WASHING, 171 

Dick, sor, but how would you fale yourself if one of the great 
crocodivils had got hold of ye ? " 

** Very bad, Dinny," said Dick. "There, go and help Peter ; 
he isn't hurt, only frightened." 

"Thought boss shot me," said Peter, making a rush, and 
then triumphantly waving his drawers over his head, before 
withdrawing to a place of safety, where he could watch with the 
others the dying struggles of the crocodile, which grew weaker 
and weaker, and then ceased ; and the stream flowed calmly on, 
sweeping away the mud and sand, and revealing the body of 
the monster, apparently quite dead, at the bottom of the shallow 
water. 

Generally speaking these reptiles get away into the depths of 
the rivers, or into some deep hole beneath the banks, but this 
one had apparently been hit so badly that it had not had time 
to get away, and the sight of the monster so excited the boys, 
that they begged hard to have it dragged out on to the 
strand. 

" But it is of no use, and its musky odour will be very offen- 
sive," said Mr. Rogers. 

** But we want to see it, father — to measure it, and see how 
long it is, and how big round." 

" Very well," said Mr. Rogers, " then you shall. Peter, get 
. one of the oxen and a rope, and we'll drag the brute ashore. 
Dinny, go and ask the General to come." 

The Zulu chief, and Peter with his ox, arrived at about the 
same time, when no sooner did the former hear what was 
wanted than he made a big loop, waded into the water, and 
slipped the noose over the monster*s head. 

This noose was pulled tight, the rope attached to the yoke of 
the ox, the word given, and the crocodile drawn not only out of 
the water on to the strand, but through an opening in the rock 
and on to the firm ground above. 

Here the General proceeded to unfasten the rope, Mr. Rogers 
curiously examining the mark made by his bullet just behind 



172 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

the creature's eye, when, to the astonishment of all present, the 
reptile made a tremendous snap with its awful jaws, and as the 
General darted aside, the creature began to thrash the air with 
its tail, sweeping it from side to side, and snapping its jaws as 
it began to move off towards the edge of the little cliff. 

Both Dick and Jack stood there paralyzed for a few moments, 
for they had believed the reptile dead ; but Dick soon recovered, 
and as the crocodile was slowly progressing, snapping its jaws 
menacingly as it went, the boy went close up and fired at its 
eye. 

There was a terrible convulsion ; then the monster levelled 
shrubs and herbage in all directions, after which it suddenly 
seemed to succumb, when getting Peter to help him, the Zulu 
thrust one of the reptile's legs beneath it, got hold of the other, 
and the crocodile was hauled over upon its back, and the keen 
knife of the Zulu cut its head nearly off, and ripped it open from 
end to end. 

"He'll never get over this," said Jack. "I dare say this 
wretch has killed hundreds of innocent creatures in its day, and 
I'm glad it's done." 

They were not disturbed by lions that night, but the 
mosquitoes and sand- flies made up for it, tormenting them so 
that morning was gladly hailed, and Jack and Dick went off with 
a measuring tape to get the length and girth of the great reptile 
as a trophy. 

" I say eighteen feet long," said Jack decidedly, as they walked 
along. 

"Do you remember what father said about the travellers' 
measurements?" said Dick drily. "No, Jack, he is not 
eighteen feet long, nor sixteen. I should say fifteen feet." 

"But I read that they grow to twenty-five and thirty feet 
long," said Jack. 

" Perhaps they do," replied Dick, " but our one hadn't time to 
grow so long, and — hallo ! " 

"Hallo!" said Jack. 



AN INTERFERENCE WITH WASHING, 173 



"HaUo!" said Dick again. 

" Father must have had it dragj^ed back into the stream, so 
let's go back. Pah ! how busy the vultures have been." 

They had evidently been gorging themselves upon the croco- 
dile's vitals since daybreak, and a perfect flock of them flew 
sluggishly away as the boys made sure that the reptile was not 
where it had been left, and then went back to ask their father 
about the monster. 

"No," he said, "I have not had the creature touched. I'll 
go with you. Here, General." 

The Zulu strode up, and Chicory followed ; and thus 
strengthened they went back to the place where the crocodile 
had been left, and the General pointed out the exact spot where 
it had lain. Then bending down, he pointed with his flnger to 
certain marks leading to the edge of the little cliff, and then 
showed that it was evident that the crocodile had struggled to 
the edge, and fallen over some six feet on to the sand and stones 
below. 

** But he couldn't have gone down there," cried Dick. " Father 
shot him dead, and then I did.'' 

"Was that you speaking, my boy, or Dinny.?" said Mr. 
Rogers, smiling. 

" Ah, but you know what I mean, father," cried the boy ; and 
then they all looked down on to the strand, but not without 
keeping a watchful eye upon the water. 

Here the General showed the impression made by the 
crocodile in the sand, and also the marks of its claws and tail 
as it crawled into the river, and then they all stared at each 
other. 

" Why, it must have come to life again," said Jack. 

** No kill some crocodiles," said the Zulu solemnly ; and then, 
after a little more examination of the spot, Mr. Rogers turned 
back towards the camp, Dick and Jack remembering that it was 
breakfast-time, and feeling quite ready for another hearty 
meaL 



174 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



^ But could the crocodile come to life again, father?" asked 
Jack. 

'' Certainly not, my boy. It could not have been killed ; and 
horrible as its injuries were, it seems to have had life enough to 
enable it to crawl back into the river, where probably it now 
lies — dead at the bottom amongst the mud.' 



1 75 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

JACK ROGERS AND THE RUNAWAY HERDS. 

The General found a shallow fording- place, when the Limpoj)0 
itself was reached ; and no little excitement was displayed by 
Dinny at the thought of recklessly plunging into a river that 
was as full as a Pay shuck, he said, of crocodivils. 

But the river had to be crossed ; and when all was ready the 
order "Trek !" wasgiven, Peter's whip cracked, and the team went 
down a slope into the river at a trot, Dirk bravely walking by 
the side of the foremost oxen on finding Jack and Dick, on 
horseback, ready to lead the way. 

Dinny groaned, and crept into the waggon unseen by any one ; 
while Coffee, Chicory, and the General took over the horses 
side by side with Mr. Rogers. 

The stream ran fast, but it was very shallow, and the bottom 
was hard, so that the waggon was got over in safety, the oxen 
dragging it well up on the other side before they were allowed 
to halt ; and so successful had the passage been that there 
might not have been a crocodile in the river. 

The fact was of course that the trampling and disturbance of 
so many hoofs kept the reptiles at a distance ; but as the waggon 
was halted, and Mr. Rogers gave a glance under to see that all 
was right, the dogs began running and snuBing about amongst 
the reeds and g^ass at the side, when Pompey suddenly uttered 
ahideous yell, and bounded away, careering over the plain with his 
tail between his legs, having had a very narrow escape from a 
small and active crocodile, which had literally thrown itself out 
of the water in its endeavour to catch him. 



176 OFF TO THE WILLS. 

The land presented an entirely different aspect now, vast 
plains running away towards the horizon ; and in places it looked 
rather ominous, for it was parched and dry. Plenty of good grass 
and water were absolute necessities for the success of their ex- 
pedition, so Mr. Rogers paused to consult with the General, who 
pointed to the fact that there were great herds of game upon the 
plain, a sign which indicated that there must be pasture and 
water, and as he expressed his thorough conviction that plenty 
of grass would be found on in advance, the order was given once 
more to trek. 

** But Where's Dinny?" cried Mr. Rogers; "surely we have 
not left him behind." 

" No, sor," said a whining voice ; " shure I was putting things 
a bit sthrait in the waggon. Are we safe across the wather yet ? ' 

" Safe ?" cried Dick contemptuously ; " no ! not a bit. Look 
out, Dinny, or we shall have one of the crocodiles pursuing us 
on horseback on purpose to have a snap at you.** 

" Shure an' ye's joking," said Dinny thrusting his head out 
of the back of the waggon ; "and maybe he'd prefer you, Masther 
Dick, as being tinderer to his teeth and more gintale." 

The journey during the next few days was more laborious 
than interesting. It was intensely hot ; water was scarce, so was 
pasture ; and but for the wise provision of the couple of goodly- 
sized tubs strung behind the waggon, there would have been a 
great deal of suffering. Nobody knew the position of those tubs 
better than Pompey, Caesar, and Crassus, unless it was Rough'un, 
for no sooner did they become thirsty, and fail to discover water, 
than they took their places behind the waggon and watched the 
barrels, " dhrinking *em dhry wid their eyes," so Dinny said, 
and barking loudly whenever a drop was drawn. 

The plains they crossed seemed to be endless, so did the herds 
of various kinds of game ; and one evening the party separated in 
search of something for the larder, which had become low. 

The General went in one direction with Dick, Mr. Rogers went 
in another with Chicory, and in a very independent spirit Jack 



JACK ROGERS AND THE RUNAWAY HERDS. 177 

shouldered his rifle, and went off by himself to see what he could 
bring down. 

About a mile from the bank he came upon what promised to 
be a capital place for stalking one or other of the herds grazing 
on the plain, namely, the bed of a nearly dried-up river, dotted 
with pools of water, one which had cut its way in stormy seasons 
through the rocky soil, leaving on either side a steep well-marked 
bank of about four feet high. 

The bed of the little river was dotted with tall clumps of 
feathery-flowered grass, which with the bank would form ex- 
cellent cover, so that the hunter could go for miles either way in a 
natural trench, towards whose water pools the antelopes would 
most probably graze. 

It was a great advantage, but the place had its disadvantages 
as well, and Jack found them out before long. 

At first he started full of hope, congratulating himself on the 
fact that he had on his high riding-boots, and could wade dry 
shod through some of the pools. But before he had gone far 
he began wishing that he had brought the dogs, to search the 
different clumps of high grass, ever>' one of which looked to be a 
certain lurking-place for a lion ; and knowing now full well what 
capital stalkers they were, he kept glancing over his shoulder at 
the various clumps, fully expecting to see an enemy. 

There were two or three rushes and rustling noises to make 
him start, but as they only proved to be made by water-lizards 
Jack g^ewmore confident, and creeping cautiously along, he began 
to make for a couple of herds feeding upon the plain — one, the 
gnu, or wildebeeste as the Boers call them ; the others, the grace- 
ful, shapely blessbok. 

The appearance of the fierce shaggy gnu is not such as to give 
promise that he will prove good eating, so Jack naturally turned 
his attention to the blessboks, creeping cautiously along so as 
to get within shot ; but though he was perfectly certain that he 
had not shown so much as the barrel of his gun, the blessbok 
suddenly took alarm, and went off like the wind. 

N 



178 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Their very first dash alarmed the gnu, some thirty strong, and 
they dashed off in another direction. 

'* And I was so careful !** cried Jack passionately ; but the next 
instant, just as he was about to show himself^ and get out of the 
cramped position he had occupied close to a clump of grass, he 
had the satisfaction of seeing that the blessboks had not been 
alarmed at him, for they had suddenly wheeled round, and were 
coming right for him as hard as they could gallop. 

" Well, I shall get one this time," cried Jack, bringing his 
rifle to bear, and waiting for an opportunity as the beautiful 
animals galloped along ; when a heavy beating noise behind him 
caught his ear, and turning he found that the gnus had also 
altered their course, and were coming back, with their heads down, 
tails up, and their horns half pointed, as if to charge the young 
hunter where he crouched. 

There was no mistake about it ; the gnu herd was coming 
straight for him, and in another minute they would have leaped 
down into the half dry watercourse, and trampled him into the 
sand. 

It was a time for displaying a little presence of mind, and to 
show the power of man— -in this case, boy — over the beasts of 
the field. If the gnus had kept on, they would have crushed 
Jack on the instant, each one being in strength much more than 
a match for a man ; but on seeing him start up on one knee, 
and shout and wave his gun, they swerved off to the right, and 
thundered by, just as a lighter beating noise of feet was heard ; 
and as Jack turned, there to his disgust was the last of the 
little herd of blessboks, almost close to him, galloping by. 

Running round to the other side of the patch of grass he went 
dou-n on one knee and fired ; but the excitement had disarranged 
his nerves, and the bullet went over the last blessbok's back ; 
while before he could get in another cartridge and climb out of 
the watercourse, his chance was gone. 



«79 



CHAPTER XXV. 

NEARLY A WAGGON-WRECK. 

There were no temptations to tarry much upon these plains, 
where there were certainly plenty of antelopes, quagga, and 
zebras, but little else to interest them. Lions were pretty common, 
but somehow they did not trouble the travellers much, being 
pretty well supplied from the herds of antelopes and the like ; but 
the hyaenas proved to be a perfect pest, howling about the cattle- 
kraal of a night, and harrying the oxen so that they could not 
rest in peace. Upon two successive nights it was hard work 
to save the cattle from making a regular stampede, for the 
poor creatures were so alarmed that they broke do\m the thorn 
fence and would have galloped over the plains but for the 
efforts and voices of their drivers and the Zulus. 

So bad did the hyaenas become, that the first moonlight night 
It was resolved to lie in wait and try and shoot two or three. 

The boys were delighted with the idea, but the sole result was 
the loss of the night*s rest, for though the could hear the ugly 
brutes uttering their dismal howl all round the camp, not one 
was seen ; and Dick at last declared that they were ventrilo- 
quists, and lay in a hole and sent their voices all around. 

The next day's trekking was very arduous, for the ground was 
dry and sterile, awkward pieces of rock, each big enough to 
wreck the waggon, protruding from the sand in all directions. 
The dryness, too, was excessive, and they seemed to have got 
into a most terribly sterile tract, which now and then was cut 
by great deep crevices, which were as if the ground had cracked, 

N 2 



I So OFF TO THE WILDS. 



each of these cracks being big enough to swallow waggon and 
team if they had inadvertently gone in. 

The poor beasts suffered terribly from thirst ; but as evening 
was coming on, the black clouds gathered, and it soon become 
evident that before long there would be a perfect deluge of 
rain. 

It was upon them before they knew it, almost literally stream- 
ing down, and soaking everything ; but in spite of the discomfort 
it was delightful to see the thirsty oxen stop to drink with 
avidity from the great pools that the rain soon formed. In fact, 
the storm was so cooling and refreshing that Chicory seemed to 
revel in it, his dark skin shining with moisture ; and the boys 
themselves did not seem to mind getting wet ; but as the 
night came on intensely dark, and in addition to the pitiless 
rain there set in a tremendous thunderstorm, with deafen- 
ing peals, and vivid lightning cutting the black clouds in all 
directions, the position of the travellers began to get uncomfort- 
able. 

The General promised a good halting-place further on ; but 
the darkness grew so intense that the foremost oxen had to be 
led, and Mr. Rogers, and the General, armed with a long pole, 
went on in advance. 

If they could have halted where they were they would gladly 
have (lone so ; but it seemed madness to stop in that wretched 
wilderness, and so they crept slowly on, drenched, depressed, 
and miserable, the thunder deafening them with its peals, and 
the lightning seeming to crackle as it fell in jagged lines from 
the skies. 

Even the oxen seemed to participate in the general depression, 
for they went on very slowly, step by step, as if helping their 
leaders to find a suitable track, so as not to overturn the 
waggon against some piece of rock. 

Suddenly the General gave a warning cr>', one that was 
echoed by Mr. Rogers, and the bullocks were pulled up short 
just as they touched the leaders. 



f>-EARLV A H-AGCON-WRECK. i8i 

The warning was needed, for as he felt his way onward wiih the 
pole the General had suddenly felt it go down into a rift stretch- 
ing right across their road ; and as it proved to be bottomless as 
far as he could tell, and went to right and left for some distance, 




there was nothing to be done but to camp just as they were, and 
wait through the cold wet night for morning. 

It was a pitiless and a bitter night, and those who believe in 
Africa being a land of intense heal would have felt their pre- 
conceived ideas shaken had they sat and shivered in that 
waggon, through whose double tilt covering the wind seemed 



i82 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

to pierce as though it was so much open canvas. Far worse 
was it beneath, where, sheltering themselves as best they could, 
the bliick servants, Dinny, and the Zulus huddled together for 
mutual warmth. Even the dogs refused to be excluded, and, in 
spite of Dinny*s rather unmerciful kicks, kept crawling under the 
waggon, 4ill Chicory took pity upon them and curled up in 
company, forming such a knot that it was hard to make out 
which was Chicory and which was dog. But the Zulu boy said 
it was nice and warm, all but one little place where there was 
no Pompey, and one leg which he couldn't get under Crass. 

Fortunately the roar of the elements was sufficient to keep 
the predatory beasts in their lairs, or they would have had an 
easy task to seize upon oxen or horses, fbr it was as impossible in 
the darkness to find thorns and build a kraal, as it was in the wet 
to get a fire to bum. 

Dick said the night was " as miserable as mizzer," and that 
Jack got all the blanket ; but, like all other things, that mise- 
rable night came to an end, and as the sun rose up warm and 
bright, up sprangthe spirits of all with it ; and as the steam reeked 
from the soaked waggon, they turned from it to look with a 
curious sense of shrinking at the narrow escape they had had. 

For where the foremost oxen had been checked, consequent 
upon the General's warning, there was a g^eat crack right across 
their path, some twenty feet wido, double that distance deep, 
and running for several hundred yards right and left. 

But for the General's timely warning the whole team would 
have gone in, dragging after them the waggon, and the horses 
which were haltered on behind, producing such an awful wreck 
that the expedition must have stopped ; and then there would 
have been the problem to solve how should they get back to 
Natal. 

As the sun grew warmer, and a fire had been lighted, food 
cooked, and a hearty breakfast made, the troubles of the past 
night were forgotten, and in the best of spirits they went on 
again, after a detour to avoid the chasm, the moistened earth 



NEARLY A WAGGON-WRECK, 183 

smelling delicious, and the birds twittering and singing joyously 
in every tree. 

So far they had avoided the kraals or villages of the various 
peoples of these parts of Africa, but now the General announced 
that they were at last approaching the big river, where they 
would have to ask the black king's permission to hunt, and 
make him a present for his concession. 

For in his land there were the giraffe, rhinoceros, hippopota- 
mus, and elephant — huge beasts, the names of which made the 
boys' pulses throb with excitement. 

There were crocodiles too in plenty in the big river, so the 
General said ; and it was there that the river fell. 

The idea of seeing the wonderous falls of the Zambesi had 
long been nurtured in Mr. Rogers' heart ; and as they had in 
their many months* journey come so far, he determined that 
they would if possible reach that part of the river, and see the 
falls, even if they did not go farther. 

There seemed to be no reason why they should not, for every 
one, thanks to his care and management, was in the best of 
health, the change in Dick being wondrous. Certainly there 
was poor Coffee : but he was growing stronger day by day, and 
vowing vengeance against every lion in the land. 

That they were approaching a more inhabited tract they soon 
had warning in the increasing scarcity of the game. In place 
of the vast herds they had so often encountered, the herds were 
small, and so shy that it was only by lying in ambush, while the 
others went miles round to show themselves and make the 
antelopes take flight in the direction of the hidden hunters, that 
a sufficiency was obtained for the daily needs. 

The boys, however, managed to supplement the animal food 
with the birds that were shot, or knocked dow^n with kiris ; and 
fishing became a favourite pursuit in some one or other of the 
rocky pools in the river-beds that they had to cross, silurus 
and other kinds being frequently captured with a hook and 
line. 



iS4 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



Tbey ««re ci:r>ocs &sh these sflams. and, of course in happy 
igaorasceof the meaning of angling. leadihr took die bait thrown 
to ibcm in the deep pccfts ; but when hooked their behaviour 
was almost startling, from the tremendous ludies they made in 
aB directioos^ Being tcit much of the same configuration as 
the ed they partook of that king, lithe fellow's strength in the 
water ; so that it was no uncommon thing for one that was 
hooked, and had been pla3red for some time, to break away and 
carry with it half of a good line. Several were lost, but many 
were taken, and found ^unous when cooked, though Dinny 
avoided them as ^ avil-looking bastes." 

Game grew scarcer still ; and Mr. Rogers, the boys, and 
Chicory were sitting in the long grass, partaking of some lunch 
they had brought, after a long toilsome walk in search of harte- 
beeste, a herd of which curiously-formed animals had been seen 
from a distance, when Chicory suddenly pricked up his ears, 
leaped to his feet, and then signed to his white companions to 
look. 

About a mile au-ay, but coming on at a tremendous rate, was 
a little herd of zebras, whose beautiful forms and clearly-marked 
stripes could easily be distinguished as they ran through the long 
grass. 

Just about the size of an ordinary donkey, but with the build 
and sturdy shapeliness of a well-bred pony, they literally spurned 
the ground with their hoofs in their efforts to get away, for after 
them in swift chase came three Kaffirs, well-mounted upon 
sturdy cobs, and armed with assegais. 

As they came abreast of Jack and Dick, the pursuers were 
close upon the tail of the herd, the speed and stride of the 
horses telling in a long race ; and as they passed, the boys could 
see that the Kaffirs were nude all but a loin-cloth, and that in 
place of a saddle they used for their horses merely a small 
ikin. 

The pace was tremendous. And growing excited at what 
they saw, Dick and jack, while longing for their own cobs, so 



NEARLY A WAGGON-WRECK. 1S5 

as to join in the chase, set off at a run, followed by their father 
and Chicor>'. 

As they ran on they saw one of the Kaffirs overtake the hind- 
most zebra, ride alongside for a few moments, and then spear it, 
the unfortunate beast stumbling as the assegai was driven home, 
and then falling headlong to the ground. 

The Kaffir's companions kept on the chase, singling out two 
more of the zebras, one of which was directly after brought down 
by a well-directed spear-thrust, but the other managed to escape, 
the hunters being content with their success. 

The approach of the party of whites was looked upon as 
dangerous, and getting together, spear in hand, the three hunters 
seemed to be preparing to meet the white strangers as men of 
war. 

Seeing this, Mr. Rogers sent Chicory on as an ambassador to 
assure the strangers of their friendly feelings : and on seeing the 
Zulu boy advance alone, they waited, heard what he had to say, 
and then cantered up, holding out a hand in token of friend- 
ship. 

They were fine manly-looking young fellows, and said through 
Chicory that they had come many journeys after zebras ; 
and they smiled with delight on being presented each with a 
common pocket-knife. 

The coming of the General somewhat disturbed their equa- 
nimity ; but on hearing his friendly words they readily accepted 
his help in skinning the zebras, whose hides, with some of the 
choicest portions of the meat, they packed in front of them upon 
the horses: and after a little conversation respecting the town 
upon the river to which they were bound, the three Kaffirs rode 
off; and the great flap-winged vultures swept down, one after 
the other, attacking the unfortunate zebras : and shortly after 
there was nothing left but a few scattered bones. 



1 86 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

HOW DINNY HEARD A LION WID A BAD COWLD. 

"They're avil-looking birruds thim vultures, Masther Dick," 
said Dinny, as he saw the great flap>winged birds sailing 
slowly through the air, some of them always being in attend- 
ance upon the waggon, knowing, apparently by instinct, that 
the companionship of the hunting party meant food for 
them. 

They kept at a respectful distance, though ; not on account of 
the guns and rifles, for they seemed to know that they would not 
be molested, but because of the dogs, who resented their attend- 
ance as an insult, and as likely to deprive them of many a 
pleasant bone. 

Pompey, Caesar, and Crassus would make a dash at the great 
birds whenever they saw them upon the plain, charging down 
upon them open-mouthed, while Rough'un went at them in a 
way full of guile, hanging his head down, and keeping his nose 
close to the ground, as if in search of something he had lost. 
He never seemed to be taking the slightest notice of the 
vultures, even turning his head away, but all the time he was 
sidling nearer and nearer, till feeling that he was within easy 
reach, he would make a dash at the nearest bird. 

But Rough'un succeeded no better than Pompey and his 
brethren, for the vultures would take a few hops, spread their 
wings, and float up in the air, as the dog rushed under them, 
leaving him barking most furiously at the birds as they 
went. 



HOIV DINNY HEARD A LION WW A COWLD, 1S7 

"Ah, they're avil-looking birruds, thim vultures," said Dinny, 
"and we'd never suffer 'em in ould Oireland. Shure, St. 
Pathrick would have dhruv out ivery mother's son of 'em before 
he'd set his foot in the counthry. They're avil-looking bastes. 
Ill be asking the masther to lind me a gun, and I'll go out 
shooting of 'em." 

"I don't think father will let you, Dinny," replied Dick. 
"They're very useful in their way, and clear off all the foul 
decaying carcases of the animals that die on the plains." 

"Shure and the flies would do all that a dale natcr and 
claner," cried Dinny. "And, oh, murther, Masther Dick, but 
it's hard work to keep the flies off the mate out here. They 
come in shwarms, and I'm doing nothing. all day but kill 'em. I 
say, Masther Dick, dear, whin are we going back ? " 

"Going back?" cried Dick. "I don't know. Not yet for 
months, I hope." 

"Oh, murther, an' what 11 become of us all? Sure we're 
never going near any more of thim rivers, Masther Dick ? " 

" But we are, Dinny, we're trekking straight for one now." 

"Not one with thim murthering crocodivils in it, Masther 
Dick ? " 

" Yes, Dinny ; the Zambesi swarms with them, I believe, and 
they run very large." 

" Och, mother, mother ! and it's a good thing ye don't know 
where yerc poor boy is all among black hay thens, and lines, and 
crocodivilt) and other foreij:^ bastes of prey. I niver thought 
I'd come to such a thing as this. Shure it's a horrid counthry 
altogether." 

"I think it a g^and country, Dinny,'' cried Dick ; "and I shall 
ask father to stop out here for long enough." 

"Ah, be aisy, Masther Dick, dear, and don't demane yerself 
to stop out here among the dirty blacks. Shure yere meant 
for better things. Jist think of it, darlin, out here in the wil- 
dhemess all these long months, and never once tasted mutton or 
beef." 



1 88 OFF TO THE WILDS, 

" But youVe been living on prime venison and other game, 
Dinny." 

" An' is it living ye call it — ating thim bucks and doc things, 
like a black, or a wild baste ? " said Dinny in tones of contempt. 
" Not so much as a pitaytie even or a pay. Shure I call it 
shtarving," grumbled Dinny. " Look at that now." 

" That " was poor Coffee, who was so much better that he had 
been out once or twice upon short hunting expeditions, and ^'as 
now tramping behind the waggon with his brother, engaged in 
what cannot better be described than as a game of romps with 
the dogs. 

For these welcomed the advances of the Zulu boys with 
delight, racing and careering round them, making fierce attacks, 
and allowing themselves to be seized and thumped and rolled 
over, in what at times was a regular tangle of dog^ and bo)*^ 
after which there was a run to overtake the waggon. 

Dinny, in spite of his grumbling, was a good deal pleased 
upon this day, for the route of the waggon took them by several 
salt-pools, whose waters the dogs rushed to lap, but came back 
shaking their heads and barking furiously, growling at Dick 
and Jack, who laughed at them, as if they were resenting a trick 
that had been played at their expense. 

These salt-pools were very interesting, the salt forming in quite 
a crust, like ice, some inches below the surface; while to the 
suq^rise of Mr. Rogers he found beautiful palms, and the 
queerly-shaped baobab-trees, flourishing in the salt-impregnated 
soil. 

The long weary trek brought them in sight of the fine broad 
river along whose banks they had now to journey till they reached 
the black king's town ; and they had not gone far before they 
saw in the distance a couple of canoes upon the water, while 
directly afterwards they passed a clump of trees and came upon 
a fishing-party, three of the number being in a large dug-out 
canoe, the other upon a mass of rock surrounded by reeds. 

So intent were the fishermen upon their work amongst the 



ffOll^ D/A'NY HEARD A LION WID A COWLD. 189 

great water-lilies that dotted the quiet surface of the river close 
in shore, that they did not see ihe approach of Dick and Jack, 
closely followed by Mr. Rogers Co protect them from harm. 
The sight was so novel that the young Englishmen stood 




itiH amongst the reeds watching the blacks, one of whom 
managed the canoe by means of a pole, while the others watched 
tbnr opportunity, and then darted their long slender tish-spears 
down into the transparent water, and several times over 
brought up a good-siied fish. 



1)0 C/-7-' 7V THE ll'ILnS. 

— • 

They were strong, well-built savages, whose belief in cloth- 
ing went as far as a little apron ; and one of them had his hair 
carefully twisted, and tied up into an absurd-looking pigtail, 
which stood straight up from the back of his head. 

The English party stood ^'atching them for some minutes, and 
then advanced to\i-ards the shore, making signs. But the mo- 
ment their presence was discovered the men in the canoe 
uttered a shout, and their companion on the shore plunged 
into the water to join them, the whole party paddling rapidly off 
as si>on as their companion was hauled in to the bottom of 
their canoe, a feat not performed except at great risk of over- 
turning the heavy clumsily-formed boat 

The General was beckoned up to join them by Mr. Rogers, 
hut they paid no more heed to him than to the Englishman, 
tlicir sole thought being how best they could make their escape. 

*'*' They'll go and announce our coming as that of enemies, I 
Fuppose," said Mr. Rogers, who longed for a better knowledge 
i)f the people's tongue. 

There was no help for it ; and as decidedly the best plan was 
to journey through on to the royal city, the waggon was kept 
[joing, and that ni^ht they camped at a short distance from 
the river, hearing no lions. But as they sat by their watch-fire, 
there was a peculiar hoarse loud bellowing noise, evidently com- 
ing from the river-side. 

As very often happened to be the case when there was any- 
thing unusual heard, Dinny was sitting with jack keeping the 
first watch, and a good blazing fire. 

" Hark at that now ! " he said. " Hark at that, Masther Jack ! * 

And he half rose and made as if to flee to the shelter of the 
v.aggon. 

"Yes, I heard it, Dinny," said Jack quietly. "It was pretty 
loud wasn't it?" 

" Loud, Masther Jack? It was horrid, shure ! And why don't 
ye shoot?" 

" Because there's nothing to shooi at." 



HOW DINNY HEARD A LION WW A COWLD, 191 

^ Nothing to shute at ? Jist hark at him ! Why, there it is 
again." 

As Dinny said, there it was again ; and certainly the noise was 
terrible and awe-inspiring, heard in the stillness of the night by 
the crackling of the great fire, whose glow lit up waggon and 
trees around in a strange way, casting grotesque shadows behind. 

** Well, it's ever so far off ; and I don't know what it is. Per- 
haps it's an elephant," said Jack. 

"An illephant !" said Dinny, in tones of disgust ; "jist as if 
an illephant ever made a noise like that ! Why, it's a lion, 
Masther Jack." 

" Nonsense, Dinny ! Lions don't make a noise like that" 

"Shure, an' am't we close to the river, where it's mortial damp ?" 

" To be sure we are ; but it isn't damp here, Dinny." 

"Shure, but it is ! " cried Dinny. " There's a hoarse roar for 
ye!" 

The peculiar noise came again, and was repeated from a dis- 
tance, and again in the other direction. 

" That's no lion, Dinny," said Jack. 

" Not a lion ? Bedad, and I'd bet me head that it is, and a 
Hon that's hoarse wid a horrid bad cowld— jist the same as meself, 
and a sore throat in the bargain, after that wet night we had the 
other day." 

"No, that can't be a lion," said Jack again. " Hulloa ! who's 
there?" 

The click-click of Jack's gun was heard as a dark form was 
seen approaching. But the familiar voice of Mr. Rogers made 
the boy lower his piece. 

" I thought I'd come and have a look at you, my boy," said 
Mr. Rogers. " Do you hear the hippopotamus ? " 

" Shure, no, sor ; but there's a great big lion wid a terrible 
cowld, roaring away for his male ; and I'd thank ye kindly if yc'd 
shute him at once. There he goes, sor ! " 

"That's not a lion, Dinny. That's a hippopotamus," replied 
Mr. Rogers, smiling. 



192 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



" Shure, an' if he can roar like that, he'll be worse than a lion^ 
sor," said Dinny, " so hadn't ye betther shute at once?" 

"Dinny doesn't want you to shoot at the hippopotamus, 
father," said Jack, laughing. " He wants you to shoot at sha- 
dows ! " 

Mr. Rogers laughed, and after staying a little while by the 
fire, listening to the distant noises of the huge amphibious animals 
that abounded in the great stream, he quietly went back to the 
waggon. 

The departure of his master was the signal for the renewal of 
Dinny*s fears, which he showed in a very peculiar way. 

Jack had just thrown a few more pieces of wood upon the 
fire, which blazed up directly ; and then, taking his place again, 
he was making himself comfortable, when there was a tremen- 
dous hollow roar, made by a hippopotamus, apparently pretty 
close to them. 

Dinny immediately shifted his position, getting close up to 
Jack, who did not say anything, but feeling uncomfortably warm 
dodged a little farther ofT. 

That was of no avail, for Dinny followed him, getting closer 
still, with the result that in the course of the next hour Jack 
was driven right roimd the fire ; and he was just about to com- 
mence a second tour when the General came, with Dick, to relieve 
the watch, and Jack went off to bed. 



X93 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

MARKED DOWN BY VULTURES. 

They were still many miles from King Mosete*s town, and the 
larder being again low, consequent upon the impossibility of 
keeping meat, a hunting-party was instituted, and Mr. Rogers 
was about to go off with the boys ; but on second thoughts, as 
they had been seen by the people on the river, no doubt the 
news of their coming was known all through the country, and it 
was possible that some of the natives might come down. 

This he felt would be unsatisfactory if he was away, so he 
decided to stop ; and then feeling that it would be better to have 
some trustworthy man to help guard the waggon, and not feel- 
ing that either Dinny, Peter, or Dirk, was that man, he decided 
to tell the General to stay. 

So the hunting-party consisted of the four boys, who were 
warned not to go too far, but to be sure and get something in 
the shape of meat as soon as they could. 

They went off in high glee, Coffee being delighted to be able 
to take his place in the party ; and nothing would do but he must 
perform all sorts of feats, to show how strong he had grown 
once more. 

Acting upon Mr. Rogers' advice, they made straight for the 
high, open, park-like land, about a couple of miles south of the 
river ; and here Coffee soon showed his talent as a tracker, by 
pointing out some footprints in a patch of soft earth and mud 
close to a clear pool of water. 

** Lion ! " he said, pointing to the great round impression : and 



194 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

he spat and stamped, and then struck the ground fiercely with 
his kiri. 

" Elfant ! " cried Chicory just then ; and his discovery so fiaur 
transcended his brother's, that there was a rush to see the huge 
round footprint, that looked as if some one had been standing 
portmanteaus on end all over the bog, and leaving their 
impressions there. 

Then there were buffalo tracks, and the footprints of 
innumerable other beasts that had been to drink, or else gone 
on, making a complete roadway in the direction of the big 
river. 

Just then Coffee pulled Jack's sleeve and pointed to quite a 
freshly-made series of footprints. 

" Why, that's some kind of antelope," cried Jack. 

" Yes, big bok— eland," cried Coffee. " Come along." 

This %\*as as good as saying that the animal had lately been 
there to drink : and in fact its tracks looked surprisingly fresh^ 
so much so that the boys, after glancing at their guns, followed 
Coffee as he trotted on ahead with his eyes fixed upon the foot- 
prints, which were here and there so clearly marked in the soft 
earth that he follo\^'ed them at a run. 

Knowing what he did of the habits of animals, and that the 
great antelope might be many miles away by this time, Dick was 
about to protest against such an exercise of speed, feeling that 
a slow and sure progress would be the safest : but Coffee proved 
to be right, for before they had gone half-a-mile, he stopped 
short and made signs to the others to close up. 

They were in a wooded tract of land sprinkled with bushes and 
fine timber-trees ; and as the boys came up, there, about a 
hundred yards in front, was a magnificent eland, and so great 
was the surprise of both as they saw the size of the animal, equal 
in bulk as it was to an ox, only longer and more gracefully 
shaped, that they forbore to fire; when the great antelope^ 
catching sight of them, went off at full speed, and they had to 
renew the chase. 



MARKED DOIVN BY VULTURES. 195 

Quite an hour elapsed before a sign from Coffee announced 
that he could once more see the game. 

This time both Dick and Jack were more upon the alert ; and 
creeping cautiously up through the bushes, they caught sight of 
the eland grazing, just at the edge of a patch of forest about a 
hundred and fifty yards away. 

This they felt was a long shot at so large an animal ; but it 
was impossible to get nearer on account of the intervening open 
ground; so kneeling together they took careful aim at the 
shoulder, and fired almost simultaneously. 

** Hit," cried Jack, as he jumped up and ran forward beyond 
the reach of the smoke ; but there was no eland lying in its 
tracks ; and as the Zulu boys came up, they made out that it 
h id dashed through a patch of dense g^'owth, and there its foot- 
prints were lost in a broad trail made by thousands of animals 
on their way to and from the river. 

Both Coflfee and Chicory exerted themselves to the utmost ; 
but their elTorts were in vain, and at last they turned to Dick 
shaking their heads. 

" No good gun," said Coffee. " Ought to shoot um dead." 

" It's a bad job," said Jack ; " but it's of no use to grumble. 
Come, boys, we must hunt out something else." 

" I wish we had brought the dogs, Jack," said Dick. 

"ColTee find him soon — that way." 

He pointed with an exultant look in his face at a great flap- 
winged vulture flying directly over his head, and for a moment 
both Jack and Dick were puzzled ; but seeing the boys both set 
ofTat a run, they followed, recalling as they went what they had 
seen and heard about the vultures tracking the wounded or 
sickly game, and it was evident that the bird they had seen was 
on the track of the wounded eland. 

An hour's tramp decided the point, Coffee and Chicory 
coming up with the wounded beast, defending itself with its 
horns against the attacks of the vultures that were collecting 
round and making furious darts at its eyes. 

O 2 



196 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

A merciful bullet ended the poor creature^s miseries, and as 
the animal was so fine it was decided to load np with as much 
as they could conveniently carry, then place sticks about the 
carcase, and leave it to be fetched in by Peter and Dirk with a 
yoke of oxen. 

All this was done, and they were about half-way back when, 
to their utter astonishment, a party of about half-a-dozen 
blacks, armed with assegais and clubs, rushed out from behind 
some bushes, and began to advance with fierce and threatening 
gestures. 

"I say, Dick, what's to be done?" said Jack. "Shall we 
throw down the meat and run awav ? " 

" No," said Dick, who looked very pale. 

'' Shall we offer them our guns and ammunition if they will 
let us go ? " 

" No," replied Dick. ** If we do that they will strip us to 
the skin." 

" What shall we do then ?" 

" Show fight," said Dick. " I don't want to, but we must" 

"But they are big fighting men, and we are only boys," 
said Jack. 

" But we are English boys, and they are only savages," 
retorted Dick ; " so come along." 

Meanwhile the Matabele warriors — for such it afterwards 
proved they were — kept on advancing, shouting savagely, 
while Coffee and Chicory had been watching their masters 
attentively, waiting to see what course they would take. 

They took their cues from the behaviour of the young 
Englishmen, and in place of cowering behind, they ran to the 
front, flourishing their kiris, striking the ground with them, 
and shouting in their own tongue the while. 

" Out of the way, black dogs ! " cried Coffee. " Let my lords 
the big lion-killers with their wonder-guns, come by." 

Feeling that they must put on a bold front, the two boys 
advanced with rifles ready ; and, seeing this, and hearing the 



MARKED DOWN BY VULTURES. 



197 



words of Coffee and Chicory, which they understood, the black 
warriors stopped short, spoke to one another for a few moments, 
and then, changing their tone, began to beg for some of the 
meat 

" Say they're very hungry. Want meat,** said Chicory. 

Dick spoke to Jack, and then told Coffee to be the inter- 
preter of their wishes, explaining to him what to say. 

Coffee jauntily flourished his kin, and- with a bold, defiant 
bearing, marched close up to the warriors, and showing them 
the scars made by the lion's claws, told them that they were 
made by the biggest lion in the world, and his young masters 
went and killed it with their wonder guns. 

"And now the young kings say you may go and eat the big 
eland they shot, and fill yourselves fuU.*^ 

The men set up a shout, flourished their weapons, and began 
to dance, after which they threw themselves upon the ground, 
as if they wanted to make themselves into black door- mats, Dick 
said ; and ended by taking up and turning back on the little 
hunting-party's trail till they found the eland. 

** Yes," said Mr. Rogers, as they related their experience ; 
"you were quite right. These people seem to me more like 
children than men, and a good bold front will generally make 
them respect the white man ; especially, my boys, if he is finn 
and, above all, perfectly just." 



193 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XX\niI. 

THE VISIT TO THE BLACK KIXG. 

The good dinner crf'dand, and the rest the oxen and horses had 
had amidst abundant grass and water, made all ready for the 
afternoon trek. Several natives had been to the little camp ; and 
as they would be expected at the king's town* the oxen were 
inspanned, the horses mounted to make the party look impos- 
ing, and they moved ofi^ keeping along the open ground about 
half a mile from the river's bank. 

At the end of a few miles they came in sight of the town, a 
collection of thatched huts in the midst of some trees, evidently 
a sort of summer residence, for they could see on the right a couple 
of men, busily t^-ing together the uprights to form a fresh hut 

There were plenty of people about, but no one seemed to take 
notice of their approach, till suddenly the firing of guns made 
all start and halt, so as to be prepared for attack. 

The General, however, warned Mr. Rogers that it was only 
friendly firing, for the king was evidently coming to meet them ; 
and directly after there was a little procession seen to be on the 
way. 

Under these circumstances Mr. Rogers drew up his little force, 
every one being well armed, and with the horses that were not 
mounted held by the head. 

Then they waited. 

** Don't laugh, my boys,** said Mr. Rogers, as the procession 
drew nearer. " He is a ruler over his people, so deserves respect 
If you ridicule what will no doubt seem very absurd, we shall 
make an enemy instead of a friend." 



THE VISIT TO THE BLACK KING. 199 

** We'll try and behave rightly, father," said Dick quietly ; 
and so both he and his brother did, but it was hard work* 

His Majesty King Mosete, had evidently determined to im- 
press the white men with a sense of his greatness ; so he came 
attended by his band and body-guard,* while he himself wore 
his regal robes, which consisted of an ordinary English Oxford- 
cut blue coat and waistcoat, with white flannel cricketing 
trousers, and a straw hat. He had on patent leather boots, and 
carried a handsome ebony walking-stick ; but his majesty, pro- 
bably on account of the heat of the climate, wore no shirt. 
He had, however, a couple of rows of common glass beads 
round his neck, walked with his left hand in his pocket, and 
stared about him as if the visitors were not of the slightest con- 
sequence, so that his appearance was sufficiently imposing. 

"Jist look at 'em now," said Dinny ; "call themselves men, 
and to go about like that, widout a bit o' rag to their backs, 
and only a scrap of a skin apron hanging before and behind. 
Oh, go along now wid ye, ye ought to be ashamed of your- 
selves." 

" Hold your tongue, Dinny," cried Mr. Rogers. 

"Certainly, sor," said Dinny. "An* murther, hark at the 
music. Hadn't I better go and take the gun away from that 
naygur as keeps letting it off, sor ? He'll be shuting some one 
directly." 

"Well yes, Dinny," said his master, to Dinn/s great as- 
tonishment ; " go and take away his gun. We'll go on. Do 
you hear ? " 

" Shure, sor, he mightn't like it if I did," said Dinny. 

" Then stop where you are, and don't brag," said Mr. Rogers 
sharply. 

" Hark at that now," muttered Dinny. 

Meanwhile the king and his court was approaching, with one 
of the body-guard loading and firing an old musket in the air 
as fast as he could. In front came a couple of men, hugging 
what at first sight looked like cannons, but which proved to be 



^.%3 r.='.=' r.^ THE WILDS. 

cmn:*. .\b:u: :":::r :Ve: I^n^. seciired round their necks by a skin 
s:ra7. ini «h::h cr,s=is Oiev bes^ode as thevbeat them with 

Nex: cjjne a c:>ur'.e m.-^ne m-.ib e\-:dently the kettle-drumSi 
h*^::^ tron:: :he:r necks and beaien, like an Indian tom-tom, at 
N>:h endsu Then :he chief n:u5:c:an came with a large wooden 
harmrnicon hun^ fr ^n*. hi? neck. This instrument, the marimba, 
he boA: wi-^ a couple o: round hammers, bringing forth a 
barbarous^ n:^\:n.a:ed kind of music, not unlike that of the 
man-ow -bones and cleavers of :he London butcher-bo>-Sj as given 
bv them on old-fashioned s:a:e occasions. 

m 

The insimment took Dick's attention a good deal, and he 
saw that it, and another in the band, were formed by fastening so 
many dr\- hollow gourds in a frame, over which were placed 
a puduated scale of pieces of hard wood, which emitted a 
musical metallic sound when struck. 

There was another dnimnier, who worked hard to earn his 
salar\\ whatever it might be : and then came the body-guard, 
armed with axes, assegais, and kins, one and all looking, as Dinny 
said, as if they were the finest fellows under the sun. 

'* Shure, and I'd bate the whole lot wid one stick," he mut- 
tered ; and then aloud, — 

" Oh, the dirty hayihen ; what a noise to call music ! Faix, 
rd pay somcihing if Teddy Flaherty- was here to give 'em one 
lilt o' the pipes. They'd know then what music was." 

The marimba players beat their instruments more londly as 
they approached the waggon, the drummers drubbed the skins 
of their drums, the man behind fired his gun, the horses snorted 
and grew uneasy, and Rough'un threw up his head and uttered 
a most dismal howl, tucked his tail between his legs, and 
ran off as hard as he could go ; an example followed by Pom- 
pey, Csrsar, and Crassus, as far as the howling was concerned, 
the chains by which they were secured to the waggon preventing 
any running away. They, however, made up for it by barking 
with all their might. 






i' 

IF 



THE VISIT TO THE BLACK KING. 201 

- The king seemed to take it as a compliment, for he came up, 
shook hands, and condescended to drink a glass of wine, and to 
eat some sweet biscuits and sugarsticks, speaking in pretty 
good English, which he had picked up from the missionaries, 
and ending by inviting Mr. Rogers and his sons to dinner. 

The present of a sporting knife at the end of his visit quite 
won his heart, and he seemed never weary of opening and shut- 
ting the blades, pulling out the toothpick, tweezers, corkscrew, 
and lancet, with which it was provided. After this he took his 
departure in the same style as that in which he came. 

" Well, we may as well pay him a barbarous compliment, 
boys," said Mr. Rogers. " Fire off all your barrels at once. 
Now, make ready ! fire ! " 

Six shots went off in rapid succession, followed by six more 
firom Mr. Rogers' revolver 

The result was different from what was intended, for, evidently 
under the impression that they were being attacked in the rear, 
the royal party made a rush to escape, the king heading 
the flight, and, like his warriors, getting on pretty well ; but the 
marimba players fell over their instruments, and the drummers 
got into worse difficulties stilL 

All at once, as there was no more firing, the king found it 
was a £edse alarm, and came back laughing, to bang his 
musicians about with his cane, and call them cowards. After 
which he came back to the waggon and asked to see the re- 
volver let off, flinching very little, and then strutting off before 
his people, as much as to say, ^ See what a fine brave fellow I 
am!" 

** Look at that now," said Dinny complacently. " Why of 
ail the cowards I ever see — " 

•* I say, Dinny," said Dick, " I wonder whether the king's 
afraid of lions ? * 

** Shure an' I'd go an' ask him, Masther Dick, if I was 
you," said Dinny sulkily; and the subject, a very sore one 
with Dinny, was dropped. 



202 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

THE GENERAL IS OVERCOME BY GIN— A TRAP. 

A VERY quiet-looking black came up directly after, to say that 
the king had sent him to show the party where to camp ; and 
he led the way to a pleasant httle grove, where there was a pool 
of water, and ample grass for the cattle ; and after the new 
arrivals were settled down — ^far too near the " naygurs" to satisfy 
Dinn/s sensitive nature, a return visit was paid to the king, 
who readily gave his permission for the party to hunt when 
and where they pleased in his dominions. 

This was satisfactory, and it was determined that no tune 
should be lost in getting amongst the large game, but not until 
they had had a shot or two at the large hippopotami, which 
were abundant in the marshes about the river. 

Still they would be obliged to remain for a few days at their 
present camp out of civility to the king, who, they found, would 
be perfectly willing to accept a few donations of meat, the 
supply kept up by his own hunters being intermittent, so that 
his majesty had frequently to go without. 

All the same, though, the king's hunters were ingenious and 
clever in their schemes, as Mr. Rogers and his sons found out 
before many hotu*s had passed. 

The king presented his visitors with fried fish and Kaffir 
beer in a calabash, and as everything seemed very clean and 
satisfactory, Dick and Jack made no scruple about eating 
heartily. After this they had to be admired and have their 
heads patted by the queens, who declared that they were 
capital boys. 



THE GENERAL OVERCOME BY GIX—A TRAP, 203 



At last they returned to the waggon, where, there being no 
necessity to put up a fence to keep off lions, so near the town, 
the rest of the evening was spent in a thorough good clean up 
and oiling of the guns. 

The General was absent, or he would have willingly helped ; 
but Coffee and Chicory said that he had gone off to get birds, 
80 it was concluded that he would be back before long. 

The oxen were all secured to the dissel-booni and trek-tow ; 
and the horses were haltered up to the wheels, everything being 
made safe and sound. Then a fire was lit, and preparations 
made for passing the night ; but still the General did not come 
back. 

His two boys, however, did not seem to be in the slightest 
degree uncomfortable about his absence, saying that he would 
be back before long ; so, as they knew their father*s ways better 
than he, Mr. Rogers concluded that there was no cause for 
anxiety, for the Zulu warrior would return in his own good 
time. 

Dick and Chicory kept the first watch, and then called Mr. 
Rogers, who relieved them, with Peter. But there %vas nothing 
to report, only that there had been a great deal of drumming and 
tomtoming up in the town, and that when the music and sing- 
ing had ceased, the hippopotami on the river's brink had com- 
menced roaring, snorting, splashing, and making noises that 
were quite startling in the silence of the night. 

Fully expecting to see the Zulu warrior return every minute, 
Mr. Rogers replenished the fire, and sat listening to the mon- 
sters on the river's bank, and wishing that he were lying en- 
sconced there in some sheltered position where he could get a 
shot at one of the huge beasts ; but that was a pleasure to come, 
and one which he hoped to give his sons. 

His watch went by, and then Jack and Coffee were roused up 
to relieve him, and being weary Mr. Rogers was glad to find 
bis blanket once more, lying till he was roused by Dinny for 
breakfast 



204 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" Has the General come back ? * asked Mr. Rogers, as he 

joined Dick and Jack. 

'^ No, father, and the boys are getting anxioas about him. 
They're gone off to find him, and I am expecting them back.* 

So said Dick, and as he spoke the two Zulu boys came run- 
ning up in a terrible state of excitement 

** Want our father," they exclaimed angrily. •*" Father killed. 
Come and find.*' 

There was something so tragic in the words of the boys that 
Mr. Rogers and his sons seized their guns, and telling Coffee 
and Chicory to lead, they went straight for the forest-land to- 
wards which Coffee said he had seen his father go. 

Coffee was quite right, for the General had started off in this 
direction, assegai in hand, and a kiri in his skin belt, partly to 
see what hunting capabilities the land possessed, partly to try 
and obtain a few birds or a small gazelle. 

He went straight off to the forest, and with all the instinct of 
a good hunter he examined the spoor of the animals going to 
and from the water, and also made himself acquainted with the 
drinking-spots, taking in at a glance the suitability of the places 
for a hunter to lie in ambush, and then he went on once more. 

To his great satisfaction, he foimd in addition to the spoor of 
antelopes of all kind, those of the hippopotamus near the river, 
elephants, giraffes, and the rhinoceros. There, too, he found an 
abundance of footprints of buffalo, so that there would be ample 
game for his masters to exercise their skill. 

But he was not satis5ed yet, and regardless at last of the 
coming darkness, he went on with the instincts of the true hunter 
who has spent the greater part of his life in the woods, search* 
ing here, examining there, and he grew more and more elate 
and satisfied. 

He had obtained nothing for the w^aggon larder, but that did not 
trouble him, as he had made so many satisfactory discoveries ; 
and at last, just as the moon was shining brilliantly throug^h 
the trees, he entered a broad drink-trail, one used by the anini ^]^ 



THE GENERAL OVERCOME BY GIN^A TRAP. 205 

on the way through the forest to the river, and prepared to make 
the best of his way back. 

The course was pretty open, and he paused for a moment to 
listen whether he could hear anything coming; but all was 
perfectly still, and he started again, increasing his walk to a 
trot over the well-trodden track, and this trot to a greater 
speed, when* all at once he felt the ground giving way beneath 
his feet, and instinctively making a spring forward, he tried to 
dear the hollow ; but he had no power in his start, and he only 
touched the farther side, and then fell with a crash through the 
screening brushwood into a deep hole. 

He fell so heavily that for the moment he was stunned, and 
lay there perfectly helpless, listening to a furious snarling howl, 
and feeling the scuffling and twining about of a number of 
reptiles which his fall had disturbed. 

The Zulu knew well enough where he was, and that he had 
been unfortunate enough to leap into one of the many pitfalls 
some tribes dig in the woods to capture large game. 

He knew exactly how such a pit would be dug, widening out from 
the top to the bottom, so that the creatures which fell in would 
be unable to escape; and he understood the hideous snarling of 
some beast, for as he cautiously rose to a standing position the 
moonlight showed him, impaled upon the horribly sharp stake 
formed by fining down a good-sized tree and planting it in the 
bottom, a hideously wolfish-looking hyjena, which, less for- 
tunate than himself, had fallen upon the sharp spike, which had 
gone completely through the wretched animal's body, leaving it 
writhing, snarling, and clawing the air with its paws in its vain 
efforts to get free. 

It was a terrible neighbour to have in such close proximity, 
and for the moment the General thought of thrusting it through 
and killing it out of its misery ; but his assegais had quitted his 
hand in his fall, and to have found them again meant to search 
amidst the broken twigs and bushes at the bottom of the pit, 
where he could feel and hear the snakes. 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




Even as he thought ill ihis he could feel the cold scaly bodies 
of the reptiles gliding over his feet, and against his bare legs; 



THE GENERAL OVERCOME BY GIN— A TRAP, 207 

and hence he was obliged to stand \ erfcctly motionless, lest— • 
though he had escaped when he fell, his sudden dash havin;^ 
alarmed them, no doubt — the slightest movement of his feet 
might be followed by a bite, for amongst so many as he could 
feel there were, some were certain to be of a deadly nature. 

So there he stood, unarmed, with the serpents gliding about 
the bottom of the pit, the moonlight glinting in through the 
trees, and only a foot or two from his face that hideous snarling 
animal, which snapped at him angrily, evidently looking upon 
him as being the cause of its sufferings. Even if he had dared 
to move it would have been very doubtful whether the General 
could have clambered out of the cunningly contrived pitfall ; but 
situated as he was, and surrounded by such dangerous enemies, 
the Zulu made a virtue of necessity, and stoically determined to 
wait for daylight before making any attempt to escape. 

But all the same it was a terrible position, and required 
all the firmness and ncr\'e of a strong man to stand there 
patiently, feeling the hideous little serpents gliding about his 
bare feet, and listening to the hideous bowlings of the hyaena. 

But the longest and most painful nights have an end, and in 
due time the day broke, and the Zulu began to consider how he 
could get out. With the broad daylight he saw the wisdom he 
had practised in waiting, for several very dangerous serpents 
were amongst those which had fallen in, and their number was 
great enough to make even him, a thorough hunter, shudder. 

But the General was not destined to suffer much longer ; soon 
after sunrise he fancied he heard a well-known call, and then 
there was no doubt about it; the call was repeated, and he 
sent forth a stentorian reply. 

These calls and answers soon brought Coffee and Chicory to 
the mouth of the pitfall, closely followed by Mr. Rogers and 
the boys, and amongst them by help of their guns the unfor* 
tunate General reached the track in safety, and leaving tlic 
hysna dead, they set off back to the waggon, the General con. 
^tulating himself on having escaped from a terrible death. 



2.-* 



CHArTEXXXX- 



Jyj5 £t ¦- M IXG-FARTT. 



^rr cf CaSec and Qucorv at find- 

rr SOX 2ZC3CCZC. arc tbey shoved it by perfonning 

=^r<c r.>i:-::il>:cs A-^rcs, ^»'*'^ nren the stem warrior 

Mr. x.^^Tsrs ilso -cdoKi h a. ^^cd dcaL and finom that time 
t2ie r»-r Z^. rc*.-s 5r>>f fir hf^er in his estiination than of old. 

!"*¦;>¦ 'mil v-j^:: ar ih-; r-T-p :h.ir xaoming from the king, one 
cc the fr^c cz" wi-^se c-es::?^^. as he partook of a sugarstick 
wiih ^Tca: pisc?. was. hii ie^.- b«ard the hippopotami shout« 
tni: :r. the -Uht. and w-re thev tichtened* 

BsTU: I>:ri: ani 'ajk declared that thcv were not in the least 
alarmed; Juii thereupon the king, who seemed to get on far 
better with them thjin with their father, proposed that they 
should come up the little rircr. and see his warriors hunt the 
great river-hcrse, 

Mr. Rv>^ers consented with a nod : and taking their rifles, the 
boys accompanied the king back to the town, where, orders be- 
ing given, his majest>''s big canoe was prepared, and half-a-dozen 
great hunters, armed with throwing-spears, each entered a canoe 
of his own — a frail ncket>*-looking affair, that threatened to turn 
over at any moment, even with the weight of one man, but 
which its occupant sent through the water at a famous rate, by 
his clever management of a long paddle. 

The king's boat was none too safe a structure, and the boys 
laughed the one at the other as they took their seats before 
their host. 



THE KING'S HUNTING-PARTY. 209 

'^ If we are overturned. Jack, make for the shore at once, and 
try and save your rifle." 

" To be sure, Dick. But how about the crocodiles ? ** 

** And the hippos, Jack ? " 

•• Feel afraid?" 

« No. Do you ? " 

« Not a bit P 

The king seemed a little nervous about the boys' rifles when 
he saw the deadly weapons in their hands, and he asked if they 
were safe. 

" A deal safer than your boat, Mr. King," said Dick, laughing:. 

** Yes, that they are," said Jack, giving the boat a sway to 
and fro. 

Then the king laughed, and the boys laughed again, and dis- 
tributed some more acid-rock sticks, of which his majesty highly 
approved. Then he gave the word, the rowers dipped their 
paddles, and six men propelled the canoe pretty swiftly. 

"I say, Dick," whispered Jack, "black kings are not such bad 
fellows after all, are they ? " 

" Not at all. I like this one. But don't whisper ; it will make 
him think we are talking about him. How many cartridges have 
you got ? " 

** Twenty four. How many have you ?** 

** Two dozen." 

The boys laughed and compared their cartridges, when the 
king, who had felt suspicious of their whispering, also smiled, 
and took great interest in the brecchloading guns, exhibiting 
quite a childish delight in seeing the breech opened, and in be- 
ing able to look right through the shining barrels. After which 
he had the pleasure of thrusting in the cartridges with his own 
fingers ; but when they were closed he expressed his opinion 
that they were not safe. 

Meanwhile, after being propelled for some distance up the 
great river, the canoes were turned off into a side stream of no 
great width, and whose sluggish waters serpentined amidst 



2IO OFF TO THE WILDS. 

muddy beds of reeds, with a palm-tree raising its ornamental 
fronds here and there to relie\'e the monotony of the scene. 

The canes and reeds seemed to swarm with ducks and other 
water-foAvl ; and here and there, riding in the calm reaches, they 
saw for the first time that curious water-bird, the darter, swimming 
with its body nearly submerged, and its long, snaky neck ready 
to dart its keen bill with almost lightning rapidity at the tiny fish 
upon which it fed. 

^ Oh ! what a splendid place for a day's fishing, Dick ! " whis- 
pered Jack. " This place must swarm, I know. I wish I had 
brought the tackle." 

" There's something more interesting than fishing to see," re- 
plied Dick. " Look ! look ! " 

He pointed to the side of the river, a hundred yards ahead, 
where a huge, clumsily-formed hippopotamus slowly waded into 
the water and sank out of sight. 

" What a brute ! " said Dick. " \Miy, he could upset us. I 
say, King Moseti, couldn't one of those feUows upset the 
boat ? " 

" Yes," said the king ; " then all swim ashore if he no catchee." 

"That's pleasant," said Dick. "But look. Jack! whafs 
that?" 

He pointed ahead to something black, seen just above the sur- 
face of the water, and several feet in front of it two prominences ; 
then two more appeared slowly above the water. There was a 
sort of gasping sigh, and a couple of httle puffs like those emitted 
by a small steam-engine, and the black knobs and the black 
surface disappeared. 

" WTiat a monster ! " cried Jack. 

" Now going to begin," said the king. 

But they paddled on another half-mile before they really 
began. 

They were in a very winding part of the river now, the ser- 
pentine curves being so sharp that the banks seemed to be a 
succession of muddy points and reedy bays. 



THE KING'S HUNTING-PARTY. 211 

On one of these points a large, broad-nosed hippo was stand- 
ing, looking as shapeless as if it had been roughly modelled in 
mud, and set upon four legs of the shortest and squattiest kind. 
Nearer to them, and in the water, several of the great amphi- 
bious creatures were playing about, raising their heads occasio- 
nally, sometimes only their eyes and nostrils, which the boys 
could see opened and shut like a valve, to admit air and keep 
out the water. 

The canoes now stopped, and it was not a very pleasant feeling, 
to be aware that beneath them, and all around, these monstrous 
beasts were walking about at the bottom of the muddy river, 
ready to rise up at will, and upset the canoes, or perhaps take a 
piece out with their teeth. 

•* Now going to begin," said the king. 

And in obedience to a signal made with his stick, three of the 
little canoes went in advance, their occupants managing the 
paddles with one hand, their assegais Mrith the other, and gliding 
cautiously over the surface of the river, to the attack of one of 
the great hippopotami. 

" I wish they hadn't got such long names,'* said Jack, who 
was getting deeply interested ; " it's quite a mouthful." 

" Never mind, they've got good broad backs and heads," said 
Dick. " I say, Jack, look at that one ! What a mouth ! It's like 
a great leather portmanteau being opened." 

*' Or a big carpet-bag," replied Jack ; " and what teeth ! " 

They were indeed monstrous, and as the animal raised its 
ears and eyes above the water, and just displayed a portion of 
its prominent nostrils, it was plain to see why the ancients called 
them river-horses ; for, seen like this, the head bore a remark- 
able resemblance to that of some large horse. 

" Now look ! " said the king, who then started, for the boys 
involuntarily cocked their rifles. For one of the canoes, with the 
hunter therein, approached the great beast just named, the 
hunter standing up to work his paddle, and holding his assegai 
poised for throwing, while the huge brute upon xYv^i "povcyX. Q!l\a.xA. 

P 2 



212 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

where he stood out as if displaying his mighty proportions, kept 
uttering grunts of dissatisfaction. 

Just as the canoe approached the beast in the water, it 
allowed itself slowly to subside ; but it rose again directly after, a 
few yards farther off, when, giving his paddle a sweep, the hunter 
poised and hurled his assegai with such force, and so true an aim, 
that it was seen sticking in the hippo, just where the neck 
joins the shoulder. 

The moment he had thrown, the hunter stooped and picked 
up another spear; but even as he did so the hippopotamus 
made a dash at his canoe, bit at the side, shook it, and the man 
was precipitated into the water. 

In another instant the hippopotamus would have had him in 
his jaws ; but now was the time for the other hunters, whose 
canoes skimmed over the surface side by side, and before the 
animal could reach the man in the water, first one and then 
another spear was hurled, taking effect in its neck. 

This took off the monster's attention for a few moments ; 
just sufficient to enable the owner of the overturned canoe to 
get ashore, right his boat, pour out all the \^'ater, and once more 
return to the attack. 

Meanwhile, the other three canoes had gone into the m^lie^ 
each man sending a spear into the neck or shoulder of the 
huge hippotamus whenever he pressed one of the other hunteis. 
too hard. 

This went on for some time, with the monster growing 
weaker in his resistance, the plan adopted being to weary him 
out by constant assault ; and all this time the great fellow on 
the mud point had looked on, giving a fierce grunt now and 
then, and at times prolonging this grunt into a deafening bellow. 
He evidently mightily disapproved of what was being done 
to his fellow ; but it did not seem to enter into his brain how 
he was to help him. 

The idea seemed to come at last ; for, turning his head 
to'wardi the kings canoe, he opened his mouth to its fullest 



(11 



I. 



* .1 



i 



THE KINGS HUNTING-PAR TY, 213 

extent displaying the great worn-down tusks, and uttered a 
tremendous roar, that can only be rendered on paper by a 
repetition of the words, " Hawgnph ! hawgnph ! • sent through 
a huge waterpipe, by the blast of a steam-engine of mighty 
power. 

This done he closed his mouth with a tremendous chop, 
and rushed into the water and disappeared. 

** What a brute ! '' cried Dick. 

" He's coming right for us, I know," cried his brother. " You 
see if he don't come up close here.* 

The king seemed to expect it too, and he gave orders to 
his men ; but before the large canoe could be got under weigh 
the monster rose quite close to them, opened its huge jaws, its 
little pig-like eyes glowing with fury, and took a piece out of 
the canoe. 

Half the paddlers leaped overboard in their dread, as the 
monster opened its huge jaws for a second bite, this time close 
to where the two boys and the king were seated, the latter 
seeming paralyzed at the imminence of the danger. 

No word was spoken, one will seeming to guide both Dick and 
Jack, who, without raising their rifles to their shoulders, rested 
them pistol-fashion upon the side oflhe canoe, and fired straight 
into the monster's mouth. 

There was a tremendous clap-to of his jaws, but not upon the 
side of the canoe ; and then the huge head slowly sank down 
out of sight, as a couple of fresh cartridges were thrust into the 
rifles. 

But now there was a fresh danger, water was coming in 
over the side where the piece was taken out ; and it took a 
great deal of shouting, and no little help with the spare paddles, 
given by his majesty and his two visitors, to get the canoe 
run aground before she could sink. 

Wet legs were the worst misfortime, and as they leaped ashore 
the men set to, hauled up the canoe, and emptied out the 
water, and in an hour they had se^^ll on a thick skin so as to 



214 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



temporarily keep out the water at the side, thin canes answer- 
ing for needle and thread, after which they embarked. 

It was none too soon ; for as the last man got on board 
and the canoe was pushed off, there was a loud snorting and 
rustling in the reeds, and a hippopotamus rushed at them, giv- 
ing the lads such an opportunity that they both sent a bullet 
into it as it entered the water, and they saw it no more. 

Meanwhile the six hunters had not only killed their hippo, 
but had seen the monster shot by the boys aground, quite 
dead, upon one of the sandy bits of land, and they had steered 
their own trophy to its side, where they were busy dra^^^ng out 
the spears with which it bristled, as the king's canoe came 
up. 

A rope was made fast to each of the monsters then, and they 
were towed down stream and out into the big river, where, 
upon their reaching the town, an attack was made upon the 
great beasts, and the fiesh hewed off amidst a great deal of 
shouting, singing, and drumming, the boys feeling no great 
temptation to eat hippopotamus, but being proud enough to 
display the head of the monster they had shot— a head that 
was even startling in its size and weight. 



21 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

A ROW UP STREAM, AND A RUN DOWN. 

Naturally attracted by his sons' success, Mr. Rogers agreed 
to go up the river with the king on an expedition to last a 
couple of days, during which they were to shoot hippopotamus, 
crocodile, and perhaps get a shot at a giraffe ; and in due 
time a couple of large canoes were got ready, and in one was 
placed a tub of spirit for curiosities, and a chest to hold the 
skins of any choice birds that might be shot. 

In the other Mr. Rogers had his guns and ammunition, with 
necessary stores in a chest ; and so as to superintend and direct 
the men, it was settled that the king should go in one boat, 
Mr. Rogers and Dinny in the other, each boat having four 
stout rowers to handle the long paddles they used. 

All in good time they started, greatly to Dinny 's disgust ; 
for he felt certain that the canoe would sooner or later over- 
turn, and that he should be shot right into the mouth of one or 
other of the crocodiles. 

"The/ll know fast enough, Masther Dick," he said piteously ; 
**and youll see if they don't come following the canoe like 
sharks afther a boat. Oh, murther, it was a sad day whin I took 
sar\Mce with the masther." 

Dinny took care, however, that Mr. Rogers should not hear 
any of his plaints, and in due time the canoes started, and went 
well for the first part of the journey, the men paddling and sing- 
ing, and a halt being made for midday and evening meal, which 
was made savoury with the large ducks that abounded in the 
reed beds, close in shore. Two or three good shots sufficed to 



2i6 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

provide enough for the whole party, and the men were in high 
glee, laughing and chatting as they picked the birds, which Dinny 
roasted before a good fire. 

At night they halted and drew up the canoes, proceeding 
afterwards to make a couple of large tents of reeds, which they 
cleverly cut, tied in bundles, and secured together — ^no mean 
shelter in a journey through the wilds ; but Dinny found terrible 
fault with the arrangements, and had to be severely snubbed to 
bring him to a more patient state. 

They started in good time the next morning, so as to be early 
at the gn'ound where the king promised game ; but here the 
character of the country had altered, and in place of the swift, 
smoothly-flowing river, they had enteied upon a part where it 
was broken up with rapids, long ranges of rocks stretching 
across the river like weirs and keeping the waters back, but 
making a series of rapids, down which the river rushed at a 
furious rate. 

'*Shure, sor, my mother's name is — ^ 

" Hold your tongue, you foolish fellow," cried Mr. Rogers, as 
Dinny half rose in dismay, and asked if the boats were going 
up there. 

" Shure, sor, I only wanted ye to know my pore mother^s 
direction, so as ye could sind her word I was dhrowned in the 
big river out in Afrikky." 

"Will they be able to take us up there, king?" said Mr. 
Rogers. " Hadn't we better land, and let them drag the canoes 
round t " 

The king laughed, and clapped his hands for the men to 
bend to their task, when they made the paddles flash in and out 
of the water, but it was soon evident that they would not sur- 
mount the rapids. 

The boat Mr. Rogers was in got half-way up, and then was 
carried back at a tremendous speed, being swept round by an 
eddy beneath some trees, to one of the branches of which Mr. 
Rogers held on, and so steadied the canoe, while a stalwart 



A HOfV UP STREAM, AND A RUN DOWN. 317 

black thrust down his paddle from the bows, and kept the great 
vessel steady. 

Just then Dinny, who followed his master's actions as nearly 
OS be could, laid hold of a goodly branch from the stem ; but 




instead of taking the boat with him, he thrust it away, and the 
next moment he was hanging from his branch, shouting 
" Masttaer ! " and " Masther, dear ! " with all his might. 

"Fabt and 1 knowed it would come to it," he yelled, as the 
branch swayed up and down, and his legs v(etAto"M« «tii\o"»;« 



2i8 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

in the water. " There's a great crocodivil coming. Masther, 
darlin', bring back the boat" 

This was done at last, but the black could scarcely paddle for 
laughing, and when the boat was under him poor Dinny hardly 
dared let go. He let himself subside in the bottom at last, and 
was wiping the perspiration from his face, and squeezing the 
water from his legs, when a shout from the big man in the bows 
drew Mr. Rogers* attention, and he ran foni^'ard to see that the 
other canoe was upset, and that the men were being pitched into 
the rapids. 

For they had made three efforts to get up, each time being* 
driven back ; and at the fourth they were so much weakened and 
so wear)', that when about half-way up they wavered, the 
stream caught the head, twisted it broadside, and, in a moment, 
king, subjects, box, and barrel were tilted out, and all went 
floating rapidly down the stream. 

The stalwart black in the bows needed no telling, and the 
boat Mr. Rogers was in was sent down and across the stream 
below the rapids, picking up the king first, and then man after 
man, till Dinny, who was emptying the water out of his bootSy 
declared that the boat was too full, and must sink. 

It did not, however, and the overturned boat being guided 
ashore, it was soon emptied and afloat again, with its crew look- 
ing none the worse, for, as Dinny said, it did not take their 
clothes long to dry. 

The king was of Dinny's opinion, for his garments of English 
make being very clingy and uncomfortable, he imitated the 
uniform of his subjects, and as everything that had floated out 
had been recovered, they were once more ready for an attack 
upon the rapids. 

But the king said no ; they wanted more rowers ; and Dinny 
uttered a loud " Hurroo ! * as the canoes were allowed to float 
back towards the town, where they at last landed, to Dinny's 
great delight, safe and sound. 



< 



219 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

WARM WORK IN THE WILDS. 

** It was all through taking you, Dinny, that father had such 
bad sport, I know/' said Dick. 

** Shure the ongratitude of the human being is wonderful," 
said Dinny, addressing nobody. "Here, I save his parint's 
life by keeping him from going any farther and getting himself 
dhrowned." 

"Ah, well, Dinny, you're not going to be drowned anymore,'' 
said Dick ; " father has decided to go on with the waggon to* 
morrow." 

'' Back home ?'* cried Dinny, slapping the shrunken leg of his 
trousers. 

" No : farther away ; after elephant and rhinoceros." 

" Bad luck to the illiphant and rhinoceros ! " cried Dinny. 
** But anyhow, we shall be on dhry land." 

The king was disappointed at the party going so soon ; but a 
present of a bottle of sweets, and some ammunition, brought 
smiles into his face — smiles that grew broader as he heard that 
they would stop if possible at the town as they came back. 

They started at sunrise, so as to get a good trek over before 
the heat of the day should commence, and with oxen well rested 
and in excellent condition they got over the ground pretty 
swiftly for an oxen-team. The horses too were fresh, and so full 
of excitement and fun that the dogs were taken, after the 
particular mountain to which they intended to make had been 
marked down ; and the boys had a good canter. Coffee and 
Chicory thoroughly enjoying the excitement, and keeping up 
with the two cobs with the gp^atest ease. 



220 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

The mountain was reached in due time, a midday halt indulged 
in, and after a good long rest they continued their journey, so 
as to get well beyond reach of Moseti's town, and away from the 
interruptions that might have resulted in their being too near 
the king. But the General had no intention of going far after 
the fine promise he had seen for game ; and two days' march 
away from the town he proposed that they should halt, and 
make a good strong kraal for the horses in the place he 
selected. 

It was admirably adapted for the purpose, there being an abun- 
dance of thorns, with a steep rocky escarpment to act as the 
back of the kraal. Besides this, there was a spring of beauti- 
fully clear water gushing from amongst the rocks, which rose 
right up here into mountains. 

The General's advice had always proved so good that the 
halt was called, and quite a fortification of thorns made, large 
enough to protect the cattle. 

The fire was started again, and as much care taken as if they 
had been in an encm/s country. And so they soon found that 
they were, though their enemies were not near. 

The very first night at the new camp they were visited by 
lions, which were audacious enough, in spite of the fire, to pretty 
well frighten the oxen into a stampede ; but they were ultimately 
calmed down ; while the poor horses suffered so that they were 
haltered up to the side of the waggon, with their heads so near 
the tilt that they could hear their masters' voices ; and this 
had the effect of calming them, when the lions were most 
daring. 

Snakes too proved to be more plentiful here than they had 
been found since they left the glen at the head of the valley, 
where Jack had his imaginary bite. They were principally the 
puff-adder, which would come out from among the stones to get 
within reach of the fire, where it would lie and bask, quite 
regardless of the presence of the people ; and several of these 
creatures had to pay dearly for their temerity. 



IVAJ^M WORK IN THE WILDS, 221 

The day after they had settled here they found another 
unpleasant neighbour, in the shape of a boa, this being the 
third of these large serpents they had met with in their journey. 

The General saw the creature up in the mountain amongst 
the stones, about a quarter of a mile from the camp, and came 
back to announce his discovery. 

There was magic to the boys in the word snake, and catching 
up their guns, they followed the Zulu up the rocks — quite a stiff 
dimb in the hot sunshine — and there upon a little sandy plain 
lay tlie monster, knotted together, apparently asleep. 

They had been afraid to bring the dogs lest one of them 
should be crushed by the great boa, and now, as it lay so 
passive, they had to attempt some plan for rousing it so as to 
make it raise its head for a shot ; and on being warned of what 
was wanted, the General offered to go up and rouse the creature 
with the handle of his assegai. 

But this Mr. Rogers would not permit, bidding the Zulu 
throw stones at the reptile. 

This the General did, the second he pitched bsing so well 
aimed that it struck the serpent right amongst its thickest folds, 
when, in an instant, the creature was all in motion, with its 
scales glittering in the sun, and its head raised in angry menace, 
though it did not seem to see who had disturbed it, and ended 
by striking fiercely at the offending stone. 

It would have been easy enough to have shot the creature 
now, but every one was so much interested in watching its 
actions that they forebore, though their guns were presented, 
ready to fire at the slightest indication of danger. 

The serpent writhed, and turned itself over and over, and 
seemed too angry to settle itself down again to rest : but at 
the end of a few minutes the warmth of the sun, and the sand 
upon which it was gliding about, were so pleasant, that it coiled 
itself up once more, laying its head over two or three of the 
coils in the centre, and then appeared to be settling down once 
more to sleep. 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



Another stone firom the General threw it into violent agita- 
tion once more ; the body writhed aboot upon Ae sand« the tail 
lashed ir. the broad head rose ap with a lood angry hiss, and 
began to undulate and menace the party ; and when the General 
took a step or two forward, as if to strike it, the serpent made 
darts, as if measuring the distance before trying to throw 
round him a coil of its muscular body. 

So menacing did the creature grow at last that Mr. Rogers 
ga\-e the word, and there was a rapid doable shot, the reptile 
falling to Dick's gun, and lying shot through Ae head, and 
\%Ti thing upon the sand. 

This serpent measured just over twenty feet in length, 
and its girth was enormous ; so thick and heavy was it that 
the amount of muscular power in its body must have been 
tremendous. So rapid and graceful was every motion, and so 
full of strength was it even now, with its head shattered, and 
when it might reasonably have been looked upon as dead, that 
it was dangerous to approach within reach of its coils, Dick 
ha\*ing a very narrow escape. 

They worked hard now collecting the lovely birds that 
abounded in the forest, and the gloriously tinted beetles and 
butterflies, Coffee and Chicory having by this time grown 
invaluable as collectors. 

Then there was the regular hunting to do for supplying the 
needs of the camps, and this generally fell to the lot of Dick 
and Jack, both of whom were wondrous expert on horseback, 
as they had grown to be with a rifle. 

" But mind," Mr. Rogers had said, " no wanton slaughter. 
Kill as many dangerous creatures as you meet, but only shoot 
the innocent game as we need it for food." 

The boys kept to their word, and many a tempting shot 
was given up, because they felt that it was not necessary, the 
larder being stocked. 

Game was abundant here, but though they could have shot 
eland, koodoo, blesbok, gemsbok, quagga, hartebeeste, xebra. 



WARM WORK IN THE WILDS. 223 

and gnu, they had not seen elephant or giraffe, and these latter 
were in the boys' minds continually. 

"Well," said Mr. Rogers, "111 take the glass and have a 
ride out with you to-day. Perhaps we may have better luck. 
We must have a skin or two of the giraffe to take back. 

"And we haven't seen a buffalo yet, father," cried Jack. 
" Isn't game scarce ? " 

"Go and look at the footprints by the pool, my boy, and 
answer that question for yourself," said Mr. Rogers, smiling. 

But Jack did not go. He knew that he had asked a foolish 
question, so he passed it off. 

The day was wonderfully hot, and quietly as they went, 
they felt scorched, while Pompey and Caesar, who were taken 
as a treat, ran with their tongues lolling out, and stopped to 
drink at every pool they passed. 

The route chosen was a different one this day, lead- 
ing over a wide undulating plain covered with an enor- 
mous thickness of rough herbage, and dotted here and there 
with bushes. It was just the place to expect to find a lion 
—offering the beast abundant chances for concealment ; but 
after being out four hours, they had seen nothing but ante- 
lopes, at which they did not care to fire, since it would only 
have been to add a fresh skin to their collection, and glut 
some of the vultures flying slowly overhead. The glass was used 
again and again in vain, and at last, so as to cover a wider view, 
Mr. Rogers rode away about a mile to the left, bidding his sons 
mind the landmarks so as to be able to reach the waggon 
again. 

Dick and Jack did not separate, and after a glance round 
to see if they could make out any game, they resigned them- 
selves to their fate, and rode gently along. 

" I'm hotter and more tired than I have ever been since we 
came out," cried Jack. 

" So am I," said Dick. " Let's sling our guns over our 
shoulders. Oh, isn't it hot." 



224 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

*^ If we sling our rifles we shall come upon a lion, or some* 
thing big.*' 

"Well, let us. I'm too hot to shoot, and he'd be too hot to 
attack. What does that little bird keep flying to us for, and 
then going away ? " 

" Got a nest somewhere here, and afraid we shall take its 
young." 

^* Perhaps so," said Dick lazily. ^ No, it isn't I know what 
it is," he cried excitedly, forgetting the heat and his idle languor. 

" Well, what is it ?" said Jack. " I know. If s a bird." 

''It's the honey-guide,'* cried Dick, watching the twittering 
little thing as it flew to him and then back, trying hard to draw 
their attention, and to get them to follow it 

" I don't believe it would take us to any honey if we went 
after it" 

" Well, let's try," said Dick. Where's father ? " 

" Oh, right over there : a mile away. You can just see him." 

« Well, we'll follow the bird," cried Dick. " I should like 
some honey. It would be quite a treat" 

" Come along, then," said Jack. " I'll do anything if it isn't 
too much trouble. Come along. What's old Pomp found ? " 

They turned their horses, and were about to ride after the 
honey-guide, when Pompey suddenly began baying furiously at 
a clump of very high ferns and bushes, and Caesar went and 
joined him. 

*• Get your gun ready. Jack,'' said Dick excitedly. '* It's a 
lion." 

" Not it," replied Dick, " or those dogs wouldn't face it as 
they do. They've only found a lizard. Here, here, here, 
Pomp, Caesar, Pomp. Hey, dogs, then I Look out, Jack ! 
Gallop ?" 

Dick fired a random shot at something that charged at them 
from out of the high grass. The next instant their horses had 
swerved round and were galloping away over the rough surface 
as hard as they could go. 



fVAXJlf WORK TN THE WILDS. 225 



^^^^_» 


"1 


^^^^^ -« 




^^ 


M 


K^W^ 


3 




^H 




8 




ft 



THE HUNTERS HUNTED. 

They had been gnimbling at not being able lo find any large 
game. Now they had found some with a vengeance, foe a. nwitt^ 



226 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

strous rhinoceros had been disturbed by the dogs, and with 
all its angry passions roused it was charging down upon the 
young horsemen as hard as it could go. 

It seemed incredible that so great and clumsy an animal could 
gallop so fast ; but gallop it did, at a tremendous rate, paying 
no more heed to the bitings and yelpings of the dogs than if they 
had been flies. But, tossing its curious snout, armed with two 
horns, high in the air, it uttered a loud, angry, snorting noise as 
it thundered along threatening to overtake the horses at every 
stride. The dogs behaved very well, but they might as well have 
snapped at the trunk of a tree as at that homy hide, and at last 
in despair they contented themselves with galloping on by the 
animal's side. 

To shoot was impossible ; to avoid tlie creature, just as impos- 
sible ; and so the boys used their whips more than once to try 
and get their cobs faster over the ground. 

It went against the grain to use a whip to the sleek sides of 
the cobs, but the rhinoceros was gaining upon them, and to be 
overtaken meant to be trampled to death. 

" Come along. Jack ; use your whip again," cried Dick. 
"We can't shoot" 

" Shall we separate ? " said Jack back from his horse, as they 
tore over the grass. 

" No, no ; let's keep together." 

" Very well, then ; but where shall we go ? Which way shall 
we turn ? Shall we try for that wood in front ? " 

" No, no, no," cried Dick. ** We should not be able to get 
through, but that beast would go past bushes as if they were 
paper. That's a thorn wood, too." 

" Where's father, I wonder ? " cried Jack. 

Dick looked over his shoulder. 

" There he comes, full gallop. He sees what a mess we are 
in." 

" But he can't help us," cried Jack. " Sit close, Dick, old 
fellow ; and look out for holes in front, whatever you do." 



IVARAf WORK /A THE WILDS. 



227 



Away they went in their mad gallop, longing for the rhinoceros 
to give up his hunt of the hunters, but the huge beast came 
thundering along in the most persistent way, close at their heels, 
but now, to the delight of the boys, not gaining upon them. 
The only thing they had to fear then was a slip or a stumble, 
or that in its pertinacious hunt the rhinoceros would tire their 
horses down. 

" He's gaining on us now,** cried Dick suddenly. " Jack, we 
must separate^ and let him run after one while the other fires at 
mm." 

" You couldn't do it, Dick. No, no, let's keep together, and 
we shall beat him yet." 

" But we mustn't take him down to the camp. Oh, thank 
goodness, at last." 

"No, no, don't say that, Dick," cried Jack, in agony, as the 
rhinoceros suddenly stopped, whisked round, and went straight 
back upon its trail. " Let's hunt him now, for he's going straight 
for £&ther. Don't you see ? " 

"Yes," said Dick; and turning their trembling half-blown 
cobs, they galloped after the rhinoceros in turn. 



Q2 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 



THE TABLES TURNED. 



The riunooeros did not see Mr. Rogers at first, but went 
straight hick upon hs own trai!, lowering its head from time to 
time, and liteniDy ploaghing its way through the tangled grass 
with its horn, which, driren bj the weight behind, scattered the 
roots and fragments on either side. 

The dogs« rejoicing in the change of position, snapped and 
barked at its heels ; and as the boys galloped on, with their 
rifles ready and at fiill cock, they could note more at their ease 
the peculiarity of the animal's make. This was ponderous to 
a degree, and the great folds of skin at the shoulders and 
haunches as they worked while the beast galloped along, made 
it lcK>k as if the greater part of its body was covered by a huge 
shell like that of a tortoise. 

But now all at once the monster seemed to have caught sight 
of Mr. Rogers and the big bay, for it uttered a peculiar hoarse 
squeal, gave its little tail a twist, tossed its head as it leaped 
clumsily from the ground, and then, lowering its horn, dashed 
straight at the new enemy before it. 

Upon seeing this change of front Dick leaped from his 
horse, and Jack did likewise, the cobs standing perfectly still, 
with the reins thrown over their heads to trail upon the grouid 
at their feet. Then going down upon one knee as the rhino- 
ceros, instead of being tail on, now presented its side, Aey took 
careful aim and fired. 

Crack ! thud I 

Crack! thud! 



THE TABLES TURNED, 229 



The reports of the two rifles were followed by what seemed 
to be a dull echo^ telling them plainly enough that their shots 
had told. 

The rhinoceros stopped short and shook its head, and they 
saw it try to turn it, as if to touch a tender or ticklish place with 
its nose. 

The next moment there was another report, as Mr. Rogers 
fired, and the thud that followed told of a fresh hit 

The rhinoceros shook its head again, whisked round in the 
most absurd way, and went off at a clumsy gallop, followed by 
a couple more shots from the boys' rifles. 

" Waste of lead ! waste of lead ! " cried Mr. Rogers, cantering 
up. " Well, what do you think of the rhinoceros ? '* 

" Oh, what a brute, father ! *' cried Dick, remounting. " Let's 
go on after it. He's badly hit." 

" He's hit, certainly," said Mr. Rogers ; " but unless you can 
well choose your spot those shots of ours would do very little 
more than make a sore place under the creature's hide. He's 
like an old-fashioned man-at-arms in his buff jerkin." 

" But let's go after it, father," cried Jack. 

" No, I would not to-day, my boy. * Discretion,' you know, 
*is the better part of valour;' and the horses are overdone as 
it is. We shall know where to go another time, so let it rest 
for the present." 

" But that great brute will be rushing out at us at all sorts of 
times," said Jack. 

" Then you must keep the better look-out. If you fire at it 
again, you must aim before the shoulder, mind ; take him as 
he's coming, if you don't feel too nervous." 

Jack looked at his father, and then at Dick, and then they 
both laughed. 

" Well, father, it does make you feel queer to have that great 
brute thundering down upon you," said Dick. 

" You would be curious beings if you did not," said Mr, Rogers, 
laughing. *^ But you must take care, boys, for the rhinoceros 



'.r^ ~ T^z irzzs. 






X :res :n z^ anx: cc 



* 1 ^1*10 ft3r:i" 






srcsar 






s.rtr u££ if :zi£ i?ca£ ^ri-=r7 zi :3e .isc >:t 



3mA.'. 



s-:.-.5in^ :r i= irrsnice 7:r ne -ar 



sc >:t die ffuatxhej 

pccn (^tbe daily 
zc gresu game. 



Tii^ ficzii -Jis "-LT i2 iZLCE:^ rx ±£ck bcsfaes and dried 
r^Lf T. -Jie i --r; rrrT-rrir ±r:c:ii ii fnjci side to sde, vhOe the 
•Jirt* ii-TiTs Sir irrli zr-scrirad pcecea. ready to sfaooc at the 
inz iz^rrt- Tzs^ '£±zz "w*! 2=ar: rso* so as to be ready to hdp 
tie '.tie ar ¦wL:ci tie rzizicerc-s ca=e ; bet they sav nothing 
of tie beaji anc it -stis erident t^oi h bad shifted its qnarters. 

Tbt -weath-iT zii leen ziterseiy hoc and dry, so that the long 
reedj grass crackled and nistlec as they passed along^ and in 
places the crazip of the horses' hoofe sent the dust flying in 
cloods. 

One e%-ening towards scnset they were about ten miles from 
the campy and wearied out with the heat and sultriness of the 



THE TABLES TURNED, 231 

air which for days past had threatened a storm ; they were rid- 
ing listlessly across a wide plain that was being rapidly turned 
into a regular desert for want of refreshing rain. 

Nobody had spoken for some time, when suddenly Jack ex- 
claimed, — 

" Look ! the plain is on fire." 

The horses were reined in, and as they gazed in the directioi 
pointed out, it was evident that there was what seemed to be a 
very large fire rolling across the plain ; the white smoke-clouds 
rising quite high. 

" Is it the grass on fire 1 " said Dick, as Mr. Rogers brought 
his little double glass to bear. 

"It is no fire at all," said his father, ** but dust. There is 
a great herd of buffalo crossing the plain, and we ought to get a 
shot/ 

Click ! click ! went the lock of Jack's rifie, and he leaped down 
to tighten his girths. 

^ No ! " said Mr. Rogers ; ** they are oxen and horsemen. It 
is a large party crossing the plain — an emigiation of Boers, I'll 
be bound'' 

They rode gently on towards the long line of dust-clouds, 
which was passing at right angles to them ; and as they drew 
nearer they could plainly see beneath the lurid sky figures of 
men on horseback, blacks mounted on oxen, and waggon after 
waggon with its enormously long team. 

As they approached, some of the sun-tanned, dejected-look- 
ing men riding in front turned their heads, and stared sullenly 
at the little party, but they seemed to have no desire for any 
friendly intercourse ; and when Mr. Rogers spoke to them they 
replied sullenly in broken English mixed with Dutch, that they 
were going north. 

They were curious-looking men from an English point of 
view, and would have been greatly improved by the use of a 
pair of scissors to their long, abundant, fair hair. Each 
man carried his rifie ready for the first enemy that might cross 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




his path, and tli 
loads or rode the oxen- 



black servants trudged on with 



THE TABLES TURNED, 233 

These Uacks, t00| took the attention of the boys, one being 
a perfect giant in his way, a great square- shouldered fellow of 
quite six-feet-six in height ; while another, mounted upon an 
oo^ bad his hair twisted up into a couple of points, standing up 
finm his head like the horns of an antelope. 

Every one looked jaded and worn out, as if with a long jour- 
ney; and the dejected aspect of the masters was traceable 
even in their dogs, one of which went on in front with his head 
down and tongue lolling out, aiming evidently at some par- 
ticalBr point 

So sorly were the leaders of the party that Mr. Rogers made 
no fuxtfaer effort to be friendly, but sat with his sons looking 
OOy till the whole troop, extending several hundred yards, had 
filed by, under the cloud of dust shuffled up by the oxen's 
;; and then, as the little hunting-party rode on, they could 
as it were a cloud go rolling slowly over the plain, the 
cnugiant party being quite hidden by its folds, till the dreary 
dnst-covered plain was passed. 

''How are we to get at these rhinoceroses?" said Mr. 
Rogers, as they rode homeward. " We must have one, boys ; 
but I don't want to have out the Zulus to track, for fear of their 
getting injured." 

^ Perhaps we shall come across one, father, when we don't 
.dqpect it,*^ said Dick. ** Let's try to get a giraffe or two, and we 
may find a rhinoceros without hunting for it." 

** Very wisely said,'' replied Mr. Rogers ; ** perhaps we 
fhalL'' 



254 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

HOW THE WAGGON WAS PLT STRAIGHT. 

The remark made by Dick as he rode home with his father 
was much nearer fulfihnent than he expected. 

The morning broke dark and lowering, with great thunder 
clouds in the north ; and as it was evident that it was raining 
hard, as it can rain sometimes in South Africa, and they might 
get caught, it was decided to spend the morning at home, and 
devote that day to a general clean up of arms, and a repacking 
of the waggon, which needed doing sadly. Besides which there 
were cases of stores that they had not yet been able to get at ; 
and these it was ad\*isable to have, especially a whole barrel of 
fine flour, which i^-as right at the bottom. 

Arms were cleaned, then, till Diany annotmced breakfast, 
with three hot roast quails, that had been knocked down by 
Chicory that morning. 

These were a delicious treat, being about three times the size 
of the little English quail ; and the hearty breakfast having 
come to an end, Mr. Rogers climbed into the waggon, followed by 
the boys, the General and his sons went off to collect wood for 
firing, while Peter and Dirk, with a yoke of bullocks, brought it 
to the camp and made a stack, upon which Dinny soon began 
to make inroads for culinary purposes, as he had cakes to bake, 
and a large joint of eland to cook for an early dinner — ^for if it 
seemed likely to hold up, an expedition was determined on in 
search of giraffes for the afternoon. 

It was very busy and very warm work under the tilt of the 
waggon, but the two boys toiled away with a will, and package 



k 



NOIV THE WAGGON WAS PUT STRAIGHT, 235 

after package of forgotten luxuries was unearthed, and placed 
where it could be used. 

"Hurray, father!" cried Jack, "here's a box of corn- 
flour." 

" And here's another bag of rice," cried Dick. 

" Better still," said Mr. Rogers, laughing. " Here's something 
that will suit you, Dick." 

" What ? More sugar, father ? " 

" No. You were grumbling about always drinking your coffee 
without milk ; here's a case of Swiss condensed." 

" If the sugar ran out," said Jack, " we could get honey." 

"Yes," said his father. "You boys must be on the look-out 
for the honey-guide." 

" VVhy, we saw one, father," cried Jack. 

" Yes, and the rhinoceros drove it out of our head," said Dick, 
?« and—" 

" Why, what's the matter ? " cried Mr. Rogers. " Rifles, boys! " 

They were just engaged in moving a big chest, and had the 
greater part of the waggon's contents piled up on one side, that 
nearest the kraal of growing and piled up thorns, when there 
was a loud yelping of the dogs, a peculiar grunting snort, a 
tremendous crash, and the disselboom was driven on one 
side, and the fore part of the waggon itself actually lifted and 
nearly overturned. 

There was a tremendous crash, and splinters flew as it was 
struck; and another crash as it came down upon the earth 
again, one wheel having been lifted quite a couple of feet. 

Then, as Jack held on by the great laths of the waggon cover, 
and looked over the chests, he saw the shoulders of a great 
rhinoceros, as it wrenched its horn out of the woodwork that it 
had driven it through ; then it whisked round, and charged 
straight at the fire, rushing through it, trampling the embers, and 
tossing the burning sticks in all directions. 

" Murther ! master, help ! Here's a big thief of a— 
murth— " 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




•~ A HEAVY CHARGER. 

Dinny did not finish his sentence, for, seeing him ^Btidifg 
- there shouting as his cooking-place was " torn all to smithereaM," 



HOW THE IVAGGON WAS PUT STRAIGHT 237 

as he afterwards expressed it, the rhinoceros dashed at him, and 
with one lift of his horn sent poor Dinny flying into the thorny 
hedge of the cattle kraal. 

The rhinoceros now stood snorting and squeaking, in search 
of some other object upon which to vent its rage ; and seeing this 
in some newly-washed clothes laid out to dry upon a bush, it 
charged at them, dashing through the bush, and carrying off a 
white garment upon its horn, with which it tore right away, never 
stopping once while it was in sight. 

"Well, when you have done laughing, young gentlemen," said 
Mr. Rogers, '^ perhaps you will let me pass and sec what 
damages we have suflfered.^ 

** Laugh ! " cried Jack. " Oh, father, I ache with laughing. 
Did you ever see such a comical beast ? ^ 

** It certainly has its comical side,'' said Mr. Rogers ; " but it 
is terribly mischievous and dangerous." 

"But you should have seen it toss Dinny, father,*' said Dick, 
wiping his eyes. '* I hope he wasn't hurt." 

They leaped out of the waggon rifle in hand, just as a piteous 
groan came from the top of the kraal fence. 

** Ah, masther, and that was the only dacent shirt I had left. 
Oh, masther, dear, help me down. Tm kilt and murthered here 
wid the great thorns in my back.'' 

The boys could hardly help for laughing, poor Dinny's aspect 
was so ludicrous ; but by dint of placing the broken dissel- 
boom up to where he was sitting, and crawling up to him, Dinny 
was aided to drag himself out. 

**Aisy then, Masther Jack, aisy," he cried ; "don't ye see the 
nasty crukked thorns have got howlt of me ? Ye'd be pulling 
me out of my clothes, instead of my clothes out of the thorns. 
Arrah, sor, d'ye think that great pig baste wid a horn on his 
nose will ever bring me clane shirt back ? " 

"Very doubtful, Dinny ; but are you much hurt.'" said Mr. 
Rogers. 

•*An' am I much hurt?" cried Dinny, "whin there isn't a 



238 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

bit of me as big as saxpence that hasn't got a thorn shtuck in 
it ? " 

" Oh, never mind the thorns," said Mr. Rogers, laughing. 

** Shure, I don't, sor; they moight all be burnt for the bit I'd 
care. But shure, sor, it isn't at all funny when you've got the 
thorns in ye." 

"No, no, of course not, Dinny," said his master, **and it is 
unfeeling to laugh. But are you hurt anywhere ? " 

** Shure, sor, I'm telling ye that I'm hurt all over me, ivery- 
where." 

" But the rhinoceros — " 

" The which, sor ? Sure, I didn't know that any part of me 
was called a rhinoceros." 

"No, no, I mean the animal that charged you." 

"An' that's a rhinoceros is it, sor? Shure, I thought it was 
a big African pig wid a horn in his nose." 

"Yes, that's a rhinoceros, Dinny. Come, did it hurt j'ou 
when it charged you ? " 

** Shure, I'd like to charge it the price of me best shirt, I 
would," grumbled Dinny, rubbing himself softly. " No, he 
didn*t hurt me much ; he lifted me up too tinderly wid his 
shnout ; but that was his artfulness, the baste ; he knew what 
the crukked thorns would do." 

"Then you liave no bones broken, Dinny?" said Dick. 

"An is it a pig I'd let break me bones?" cried Dinny, in- 
dignantly. " A great ugly baste ! I'd like to have the killing of 
him any day in the week. Just look at me fire flying all ovfcr 
the place. Shure, I'll be very glad when we get home again ;" 
and he went grumbling away. 

The damage to the waggon was not serious. The horn 
of the great beast had gone right through the plank of the 
forepart, where the chest generally stood on which the driver 
sat, and that could easily be repaired ; while they were car- 
penters enough to splice the broken disselboom, or if needs 
be, cut down a suitable tree and make another ; so that al- 



HOW THE WAGGON WAS PUT STRAIGHT, 239 

together there was nothing much to bemoan. A good deal 
of laughter followed, Dick and Jack being unable to contain 
their mirth, as they thought of Dinny's discomfiture. 

" Oh, yis ; it's all very foine, Masther Jack ; but if you'd 
been sent flying like I was then, it isn't much ye'd have 
laughed." 

" No, I suppose not, Dinny," said the lad frankly ; " but 
never mind about the thorns." 

" Shure, it isn't the holes in me shkin," said Dinny ; they'll 
grow again. I was thinking about me shirt'' 

** 111 ask father to give you one of his, Dinny," said 
Dick. 

"Oneo* thim flannel ones wid blue sthripcs?" said Dinny 
eagerly. 

" Yes, one of those if you like, Dinny." 

"Whoop ! good luck to the big pig and his horn on his 
nose," cried Dinny. " He's welkim to me owld shirt ; for it was 
that tindher that I had to put on me kid gloves to wash it, for 
fear it should come to pieces, Masther Dick. But, Masther 
Dick, asthore, d'ye think the big baste will come back and 
thread on me fire again ? " 

"I think we shall have to be on the look-out for him to 
stop him," said Dick. " But his skin's so thick there's no get- 
ting a bullet through." 

^' An' is it a pig wid a shkin as thick as that 1 '' said Dinny, 
contemptuously. " Arrah, I'll be after shooting the baste me- 
self. I wouldn't go afther the lines, but a big pig I Shure, 
if the masther will let me have a gun and powther, 111 go and 
shute the baste before he knows where he is." 



240 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

HOW DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN. 

In expectation of another visit from the rhinoceros, the greatest 
precautions were taken ; but the days went by, and hunting 
and collecting took up plenty of attention, and no more visits 
from the rhinoceros were received. 

The boys were certain that this was not the animal that had 
charged them out upon the grass plain, and proof of this was 
found one day when, in company with their father, the boys 
were following a honey-guide. Coffee and Chicory were with 
them, and eagerly joined in the pursuit, till the bird which had 
been flitting from bush to bush, and from tree to tree, suddenly 
perched itself upon one at the edge of a patch of forest 

Then Chicory ran right to a particular tree^ and pointed to a 
spot where, about twenty feet from the gp-ound, the bees could 
be seen flying in and out. 

To the great disappointment of the bird, the wild hive was 
left for that occasion, it being a pity to waste any of the honey, 
so they returned by another route towards the camp, the bixd 
twittering and showing no little excitement at what it evidently 
looked upon as the folly of men at neglecting the sweet trea* 
sure. 

The place was, however, marked, and with the intention 
of returning next day, armed with hatchet, fire, and a couple of 
zinc buckets to hold the spoil, they rode round the other side 
of the forest-patch, looking out for brightly-plumaged birds, 
whose skins could be added to the collection already made. 

" Yes,'' said Mr. Rogers, " it is a curious natural history fact» 



HOW DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN. 241 

but there it is, plainly enough. The bird knows that man can 
get at the honey when it cannot, so it leads him to the place 
hoping to get its share of the spoil." 

"Then you don't think it is done out of love for man, father?" 
said Jack/' 

"What do you think, Dick?" said Mr. Roger. 

** I think it's done out of kindness to the bird," said Dick, 
smiling. 

•* So do I," replied his father, " and that bird its o\ni self." 

"Look at the vultures," cried Jack, just then, as quite a 
cloud of the great birds rose from a clump of trees on their 
left ; and upon riding up there lay a great rhinoceros, or rather 
its remains, for, in spite of its tough hide, the carrion birds had 
been busy at it ; but not so busy but that the marks of a couple 
of bullets were seen in its neck and fore-shoulder, from the 
effects of which it had evidently died. 

" That's our rhinoceros," cried Jack eagerly. 

"You shall have your claim, boys," said Mr. Rogers drily; 
** my shot shall not count.'* 

" I said * our,' father ; so let's share it amongst us." 

The boys would have liked to have the horn hacked off, but 
the animal was in such a terrible state that their father thought 
it unfair to set either of the Zulus to execute the task ; so they 
had to be content with the trophy in expectation ; the boys 
promising to have off the horn from the next that was 
shot. 

While they were enjoying a hearty meal after their return to 
the camp, Dinny suddenly began to make advances to Chicory, 
giving him pieces of cake, and choice bits of meat, which he 
had roasted, and all to the boy's great surprise, for heretofore 
Dinny had been anything but civil to him. But Chicory took 
it all in good part, and smiled and nodded ; and when at last 
Dinny signed to him to come away from the camp, the boy fol- 
lowed without a word. 

" Look ye here, my little naygur," said Dinny confidentially. 



242 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

as soon as they were in the shelter of the trees ; " d'ye undher- 
stand what Tm saying to ye ? '' 

Chicory nodded eagerly. 

•* Yes, yes ; understand," he said. 

" Then look here, ye dark-looking little image ; I want ye to 
help me.* 

" Yes ; help," said Chicory wonderingly. 

"Iv yell help me, I'll help you, little naygur ; and ye shall 
always have plenty of what's good out of the pot, and roast 
mate, and cake. D'ye understand that ? ** 

" Yes ; Chicory know. Give him plenty meat." 

" That's right, my young son of a dark night," cried Dinny. 
"Well, now then, look here. Ye know that grate big pig wid 
the horn on his nose came and upset me fire, and run away wid 
me wardrobe ? " 

Chicory shook his head. 

"Well then, wid me clane shirt. D'ye undherstand 
now ? " 

" Yes, yes." said Chicory, laughing. " Don't know big pig." 
" Yes, yes, you do, my young piece of black velvet ; the big 



nse nosserus." 



** Yes, rhinoceros, big beast, big horn. Oorrr ! houk ! houk ! 
houk ! " 

This was supposed to resemble the noise made by the great 
animal ; and Chicory illustrated his cry by going down on hands 
and knees in a clumsy gallop, which ended with a toss of the 
head in the air. 

" Yes ; thaf s him," said Dinny. « Well, I want ye to find the 
way to where he lives by his futmarks, and then come and 
tell me, and I'll go and shute him." 

Chicory nodded his head, and they went back to the waggon, 
where Dinny presented himself to his master all at once with 
a request for a gun. 

" A gun, Dinny ? And what do you want with a gun ? " 

• Shore, sor, everybody else learns how to shute, and I thought 



HOW DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN. 243 

rd like to be able to shute a line or a hippo — ^what's his name, 
or any other of the savage bastes if they came near the waggon 
while ye were away.*' 

"Well, Dinny, I have no objection, if you promise to be 
careful'' 

** But I want one o' them that shutes big bullets, sor, and net 
the little pishtol things that only shutes small shot, sor." 

"You shall have a good rifle, Dinny," said his master. 
" Dick , get the Snider — the short Snider — out of the waggon, 
and give him twenty cartridges." 

This was done, and the rifle placed in Dinn/s hands. 

•* You must be very careful how you shoot with it, Dinny," 
said Mr. Rogers. 

" Shure and I will, sor." 

"But be particularly careful not to fire in the direction 
where any one is coming. Remember a Snider is dangerous at 
a mile." 

" Is it now ? " said Dinny " But shure, sor, I want a gun, and 
I don't care for your Sniders at all. What's a Snider to do wid 
me ? It's a gun I want." 

"To kill wild beasts, Dinny ?" 

" That same, sor." 

" Well, then, take that Snider-rifle ; it will kill at a tremendous 
distance." 

" What, that little bid of a thing, sor ? " 

"To be sure, man. Now take care, and youll have to keef 
it clean and free from rust as well." 

"Thanky, sor, and 1 will, and it will have too much to do for 
it to get rusty." 

"Well, Dinny, I trust you, mind, so be careful with your 
weapon." 

" Shure, sor, and I will," said Dinny ; and taking the Snider 
very carefully in his hands, he asked Jack to give him " a bit of 
showing how to trim thim ;" and this Jack did till he was perfect, 
when Dinny went off with the rifle, muttering to bix&ai&M« 

R 2 



f • 



OFF TO THE IVILDS. 



- Tiink d tiiai now ! ' he kept oq saying, *^that kit of a things 



f 9 



ati^xn:^ a baste at a 

No:b:=i^ ncre vas said br Dinny, mho had made his plans, 
and he kepc his ovn secret of what he intended to do. On the 
following afternoon Chicory came to him in high glee, to claim 
the roast meat and cake promised, amd he announced that he 
had foond vhcre the rhinoceros lived. 

^How did you £nd him out?' said Dinny doubtingly. 

** Track. Follow spoor," said Chicory proadly. 

*' Oh, ye followed his spoor, did ye ?" said Diimy. •* Very 
well thin, it's going to be a bright moonlight night, so ye can 
follow his spoor, and tak me wid ye.*' 

Chicory- nodded eagerly, and in the course of the evening he 
came and beckoned to Dinny, who took the Snider, and put the 
cartridges in his pocket 

" Where arc you going, Dinny?" said his master. 

" Shure, jist for a bit o' pleasure, sor," he replied. 

^ Well, look out for the lions,'* said Dick maliciously. 

"Shure 1 niver thought o* the lines," muttered- Dinny, "and 
they goo out a walking av a night I'd better shtay at homew 
Bother ! * he cried angrily. " Shure the young masther did it 
to frecken me, and itll take a braver boy than him to do it any- 
how.'' 

So Dinny marched off, and following Chicory, the boy led 
him at once over a rugged mountainous hill, and then into a 
part of the forest that was particularly dark, save where the 
moon, pretty well at its full, threw long paths of light between 
the trees. 

Enjoining silence, the boy went cautiously forward, threading 
his way through the dark forest, till he halted beside a fallen 
monarch of the woods, a huge tree of such enormous propor- 
tions, that its gnarled trunk and branches completely stopped 
further progress ; for it formed a stout barrier breast high, over 
which a man could fire at an>'thing crossing the moonlit glade 
beyond. 



HOIV DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN, 245 

The shape of the tree was such that a branch like a second 
trunk ran almost parallel to the main trunk, arching over the 
head of whoever used the old tree for a breastwork, and forming 
an additional protection should the occupant of the breastwork 
be attacked by any large animal 

" Stop there, you see noseros," whispered Chicory. 

"But shure ye wouldn't have a man shtand there by himself, 
and all in the dark ? Faix, there's some wild baste or another 
shiaying me now." 

" See noseros then shoot," whispered Chicory. " I stay 
here." 

The boy caught hold of a branch and swung himself up into 
a tree, where he perched himself and waited. 

"Faix, he's just like a little monkey, and not fit for the 
shociety of Christians," muttered Dinny as he took his place by 
the great barrier, and, resting his rifle upon the trunk, 
waited. 

Dinny felt in anything but a courageous mood, but as he had 
come so far upon his mission, he strung himself up to go on 
with it, and watched the open space before him, lit up by the 
moon which shone full upon his face. 

" Maybe he's only playing wid me, the black little haythen," 
thought Dinny, " and there's no big pig to be seen here at all. 
But he shan't see that I'm a bit frcckened annyhow, for I'll 
shtand my ground till he comes down and says we'd better 

go." 

So Dinny stood watching there till he began to feel drowsy, 

and this made him lean against the great trunk, his head be- 
gan to nod, and twice over he was pretty well asleep. 
" Shure, an' I'll catch cowld if I do that," he said to himself, 
s he gave himself a bit of a shake. " I don't see what's the 
good o' waiting here, and — murthcr ! look at that now." 

Dinny felt as if cold water was being poured over him as, 
all at once, he saw the great proportions of a rhinoceros stand- 
ing out quite black against the bright moonlight, the animal 



24^ OFF TO THE WILDS. 

being as motionless as if carved from the rock that lay in great 
masses around. 

" Shure an* it's a b:^ shtone, and nothing else, and — ^murther, 
it*s moving, and coming here.*' 

Dinny hardly knew himself how he did it, but in a kind 
of desperation he took aim at the rhinoceros, and drew 
trigger. 

The result was a sharp crack, that seemed to echo into dis- 
tance far away, and mingled v^ith the echoes there vras a furious 
grunting roar. 

For Dinny had hit the rhinoceros. In fact, aiminj at it at 
he did, with the barrel of his piece upon the large trunk, it 
would have been almost impossible to miss. But as he heard 
the roar Dinny tiumed and ran, stumbled, saved himself, and 
hid behind a tree. 

" Murther, but it*s awful work," he muttered, as his trembling 
fingers placed a second cartridge in the rifle. 

Then, all being silent, Dinny stole out, and peering cautiously 
before him, crept towards the prostrate tree. 

"Shure, 1 belave I've shot him dead," he muttered, as he 
peered out into the open glade ; but as he showed his face in 
the moonlight there was a furious snort, and Dinny turned and 
fled ; for the rhinoceros charged right at the white face behind 
the prostrate tree, thrusting its monstrous head between the 
two huge limbs ; and then, in spite of its prodigious strength 
being unable to get any further, it drew back, charged again, 
placed one hoof on the tree — but its efforts were in vain. Then 
it wrenched its head back, and retiring a short distance charged 
once more, Dinny watching it from behind a tree with blanched 
face and hands, trembling with excitement. 

A oractised hunter would have sent bullet after bullet crash- 
ing into the monster's brain ; but Dinny was not practised, and 
it was not until he had thoroughly convinced himself that the 
animal could not get through, that he stole out, and bending 
down, cautiously advanced nearer and nearer to the huge 



HOW DINNY HANDLED HIS GUN. 




beast, which snorted, and grunted, and squealed i 
efiorta to get at its assailant. 



243 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

I 

If it had gone twenty yards to its left, it could easily have 
passed the obstacle ; but it was pig-like enough in its nature to 
keep on tr>'ing to force itself through the obstacle it had tried 
to pass, and seeing this, Dinnywent on, gaining a little courage 
the while. 

^ Shure Til go close enough to make quite sartain," he muttered ; 
'*but ifs like having a bad dhrame, that it is. Now where had 
I better shute him — in the mouth or the eye ? " 

He decided for the eye, and raising the rifle at last he took a 
long aim at not six feet distance, when the great beast uttered 
so furious a roar that Dinny turned once more, and fled behind 
the tree. 

''Shure and what*d I be freckened of?" he said angrily* 
^ Not of a baste like that" And walking out once more he 
repeated his manoeuvres, approaching cautiously ; and as the 
rhinoceros began straining, and sprang to force its way through^ 
Dinny took careful aim at the monstrous beast, and fired. 

^ Shurc it's aisy enough," he said, as the beast started back ; 
and placing a fresh cartridge in his piece, he fired again at 
where the animal stood in the full moonlight swaying its head 
to and fro. 

It was impossible to miss ; and Dinny fired again and again^ 
nine shots in all, growing encouraged by his success ; and the 
result was that the monster fell over upon its side at last with a 
heavy thud, just as Chicory dropped to the ground, and made 
the hero jump by touching him on the back. 

" Ah, be aisy ; what are ye thrying to frecken a man for like 
that ?" said Dinny. " But look at that, ye little haythen ; that's 
the way to shute. Now let's go back and tell them they 
needn't be alarmed about the big pig, for its Dinny himself 
that has done the thrick." 



249 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 

DINNY RELATES HIS ADVENTURE. 

Dinny's Story was hardly believed when he walked into camp, 
hut Chicory was there to corroborate his words, and the asto- 
nishment felt was intense. 

"You — you shoot a rhinoceros, Dinny ! " said his master. 

**Shure and why not, ycr banner?" said Dinny. "Didn't 
I borry the gun a* purpose for that same ? and didn't the big 
baste stale my gyarments in the most ondacent way ? " 

"But how? Where? Where?" was asked by father and 
sons, in a breath. 

" Shure an' I'm the laste bit weary wid my exertions,'* said 
Dinny, ** and I'll jist hght me pipe and sit down and rest, and 
tell ye the while." 

All in the most deliberate way, Dinny proceeded to light his 
pipe and rest ; and then, with Chicory sitting in front with his 
arms tightly embracing his knees, and his eyes and mouth 
open, Dinny related his adventure with the rhinoceros. 

The late Sir Walter Scott in speaking of embellishing and 
exaggerating a story called it adding a cocked-hat and walking- 
stick. 

Dinny put not merely a cocked-hat and walking-stick to his 
story, but embellished it with a crown, sceptre, and royal robes of 
the most gorgeous colours. It was wonderful what he had done ; 
the furious conduct of the rhinoceros, the daring he had displayed, 
the precision with which he had sought out vital parts to aim 
at. A more thrilling narrative had never been told, and 
Chicory's eyes grew rounder and his mouth wider open in his 



v^ n ZEZ ir 



i-r 



1=4 r -^- **s 






tbe 



too 



HCaiBZBZCX. gwi*^ TTWiw 



•= ¦^' ^ - ^' 



and 



-?i 



¦ Ir_-« niniic 



oat of 



t:i= i::=7i lI -=e -uinitL imf ?e 3xi jz Tnn i'ie fiist see iL* 

- =±. sii-i "—I .'f'^ ^TiTTTs ^7 ^ £s zxr^scj^ bc;{|^ creCf and 



<5i I td TOO? 



** rit=i r i 111.7 X !:*¦> ziir ^ x I'jmig dkaoocras^ DEnnr,^ 



_.,; - . t 

*n. I. tt \. 



jfi TIC CT-e^ _*. 



E7- ±£s aa* br that, hc^s as 



:-r 15 "±1^ -vi^^rc ^er-i. rxi 32: aZ. Sore a. bc^ser and more 
r^^Tnrn^r 'ru.5r^ zzrcr j c ia^ii wic x '*» "-*^ sna, and txied hard 



• '^~-7 ^i-ir 5 *ir»5 wia: srrf rcc are teSio^ cs^ Dinny. A 
rh-zcofTT'S T n:l'i:iT ear a. za^ : be*d rmaple him to deaths' 
crifd 2 . :k. The zjd bees z sr-ci-rcs bcv fer Tears. • A liiino- 
ifri'S is i^ icrc:\:rccs bcasi, az>d has a prehensile upper 

** A w!La: sort a baste?" said Dinnv, staring: 
" Herbivoro'js.' 

^ Shore an' what's that got to do wid it ? I tell too it tried to 
ate me at one mouthful, in spite of his what sort o* vpper lijx 



DINNY RELA TES HIS AD VENTURE. 25 1 

Shure the poor baste couldn't help having that the matter wid 
his lip. Why as soon as I set eyes on him. ' Ah, Dinny,' I 
says, * yere work's cut out, me boy,* I says, * for if ever there was 
a baste wid a stiff upper lip that's the one.'" 

** But I said a prehensile upper lip, Dinny," cried Dick. 

** Shure I heard what ye said. Master Dick. I know. And 
a pretty rampaging baste he was. Wirra ! If ye'd seen him 
foight If ye'd heard him roar, and saw how I battled wid him 
till I'd laid him low wid tin bullets in his jacket. Ah, it was 
wonderfuL But ye shall see the baste." 

** Yes, I want to see him, Dinny," said Jack. 

** Shure an' 111 be glad to take ye, Masther Jack, as soon as 
it's light. But he was a brave baste, and fought well ; and I 
felt sorrylike when I seen him go down." 

*' Did you though, Dinny ? " 

•* Shure an' I did, Masther Dick, for I says to myself, * YeVe 
a brave boy, an' I dessay ye've got a mother somewhere as \z 
very proud of y^ just as I've got wan meself. But I must shute 
ye^' I says, ' for the sake of the gintlemen wid the waggon, and 
the mischief ye've done ;' and so I did ; an' there he lies, Masther 
Dick, stretched out on his side; and pace to his ashes. Tve 
done." 

** Well, boys," said Mr. Rogers, speaking for the first time for 
some minutes, *' I think we ought to congratulate ourselves upon 
the great accession we have discovered in Dinny. In future he 
shall accompany us in our attacks upon the lions and other furious 
beasts. I should not think of going after elephant now without 
Dinny." 

That gentleman's face was a study, as he listened to his mas* 
let's words. His nostrils twitched, his brows g^ew full of wrinkles, 
and his jaw dropped, letting his pipe fall from his lips ; and 
thoQgh he picked it up directly after, the tobacco had gone out, 
and Dinny looked as if all the enjoyment had gone out of his 
life. 

Beyond the roaring of a lion or two, the night passed off very 



2-0 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



quietly, and as soon as it was broad day Chicory stood ready 
to lead the party to sec the rhinoceros. 

** Come, Dinny, aren't you ready ? '* cried Dick. 

** Shure an* I don*t want to go, Masther Dick. I seen enough 
^>f the baste last night." 

" Yes, but you must come and show us." 

** Shure an* Masther Chicory there will lade you to the very 
^pot» and I couldn't do any more. He lies did bechuckst two 
big lumps of sthone, an\ as I said, he's as big as a waggin,' 

** Oh, but Dinny must come," said Mr. Rogers. 

** Shure an' how will I get the breakfast riddy if I coiiie^ 
sor ? '* persisted Dinny. *' I did my duty last night. You gin- 
tlcmen must go and fetch him home." 

Uut Dinny's protestations passed unheeded, and he bad to go 
with the party, shouldering his rifle like a raw recruit, but 
glancing uneasily to right and left as they went along. 

Dick observed this, and said quietly, — 

** What a lot of poisonous snakes there are amongst these 
stones ! " 

Dinny gave a spasmodic jump, and lifting his feet gingeriy, 
deposited them in the barest places he could find ; and for the 
rest of the journey he did not once take his eyes off the ground. 

As it happened they had not gone fifty yards farther befoie 
they came upon a great swollen puff-adder, lying right in thdr 
|)ath. 

Chicory saw it first, and shouted a word of warning, which 
made Dinny wheel round, and run away as hard as he could go^ 
till the shouts of the others brought him back, looking terriUy 
ashamed. 

*^ Oh, it*s wan o' thim things, is it?" he said, looking at the 
writhing decapitated viper. ** Shure I thought it was the jump- 
ing sort that springs up at yer ois, and stings ye before yer know 
where ye are. There was a cousin of me mother's went to live 
in Hampshire, and she got bit by wan o' thim bastes in the fiit, 
and it nearly killed her. Ye can't be too carefiiL" 



DINNY RELA TES HIS AD VENTURE. 253 



Diiiny felt as if he was being laughed at for the rest of the 
way, and looked quite sulky ; but the sight of the great fallen tree, 
and the huge rhinoceros surrounded by vultures busily working 
a way through the tough hide, revived him, and he marched 
forward to examine his bullet holes with the look of pride worn 
by a conqueror. 

It was quite refreshing to see him walk up the hind leg of 
the rhinoceros, and then along its huge homy-hided body to the 
shoulder, where, lowering the rifle he carried, Dinny placed the 
stock upon the creature's neck, and rested his arm upon the 
barrel, regarding his fallen foe in quite a contemplative manner. 

" Mind that rifle don't go off, Dinny,'* cried Jack. 

Dinny leaped off the rhinoceros and stared. 

•* It's a very dangerous thing to rest your arms on the muzzle 
of a gun," said Dick, who enjoyed poor Dinny's discomfiture. 

**Wcll, Dinny," said his master, ** I congratulate you upon 
having slain a monster. Where did you stand ? " 

** Oh, over yonder somewhere," said Dinny cavalierly. " Any- 
where to get a good soight ov him.*' 

•* Stood here behind tree where nosros no get at um," said 
Chicory, innocently, in his eagerness to explain all he could. 

** Ah, ye avil little baste," muttered Dinny. " See if I g^ive 
ye the laste taste of anj'thing IVe got. Ah, yes," he said aloud, 
** I did get one shot at him from behind that big tree ; but I 
cud see him best out in the open yander. Shure an' how big 
is the baste, sor ? " he added, as Mr. Rogers ran a measuring 
tape along the animal from nose to tail. 

"Just over eleven feet, Dinny,*' said Mr. Rogers ; and leaving 
the General to hew off the great blunt horn, they returned to 
breakfast. 



254 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 

DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FISH-HOOKS. 

DiRECfLY breakfast was over they started — this time without 
Dinny, who seemed to be very nervous for fear he should be 
asked to go — to get some of the honey, Coffee and Chicory 
each carrying a zinc pail, and the General a small tub. 

Long before they reached the patch of forest trees the little 
bird came fluttering and twittering about them, having 
apparently forgiven their past neglect, and then went on, and 
flew from bush to bush, leading them straight to the big 
trees, perching as before upon one dose by, and then silently 
watching the manoeuvres of the party. 

The General was about to take the lead, but Coffee and 
Chicory uttered such a strong protest in their native tongue, 
that he smilingly handed his hatchet to Coffee ; while Chicory 
collected some tolerably dry peaty growth, struck a light and set 
it on fire, causing a dense cloud of smoke to rise up round the 
tree that contained the wild honey, and stupefying and suffo- 
cating the bees that flew to and fro. 

The boys grinned with delight at their task, and danced 
about, heaping up the smoke-producing leaves and stalks, till 
feeling satisfied that they might ascend, there was a bit of an 
altercation as to who should go, ending in Chicory giving way 
to his brother as he had been ill. 

Coffee then took the axe and stuck it in his loin cloth, and a 
patch of burning turf in his hand. Then nimbly climbed up to 
the hole, where he held the smoking turf before him, to keep 
off the bees from his naked body, and clinging tightly with his 



DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FISH-HOOKS. 255 

legs, he proceeded to ply the axe so vigorously, and with such 
skilly that the rotten bark soon gave way, the tree being little 
more than a shell, and he laid bare range upon range of the 
beautiful comb. 

A little more tearing away of the bark was necessary, and 
then Coffee descended for a pail and a knife, dispensing now 
with his burning turf, and going up to return with the pail full 
of delicious comb. 

This was turned into the General's tub, and the boy ascended 
again, filled his pail and descended, and once more going up 
filled the other. 

The General then solemnly took a piece of the comb and 
placed it in the fork of a tree for the honey-guide, assuring those 
who looked on, that it was necessary to propitiate the bird and 
pay it for its services— a plan of which the little thing seemed 
highly to approve, for it flew to the comb at once, and began to 
feed. 

Enough having been procured to fill the pails and tub, 
Chicory, evidently approving of his brother's sticky state, went 
up the tree in turn, and cut out three combs for present use, 
offering some to each of his masters, and then dividing the 
remainder between his father, brother, and self. 

In fact, after removing to a little distance from the hive- 
tree, all sat down and had a good feast of the delicious honey, 
C9ffee and Chicory grinning with delight as they munched up 
the wax and sweet together. 

"Well, of all the sticky objects I ever saw, they beat 
e\'erything," said Dick, laughing. "Why, Coffee's all over 
honey." 

" Yes, tick all over," said the boy, rubbing his finger down 
his chest, and then sucking it, for he had got to be pretty thickly 
smeared in carrying the honey down. 

"Didn't the bees sting?" said Jack. 

"Only tiddlum's back," said Coffee, giving himself a 
writhe. 



( 



256 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" Yes, tiddlum's back," said Chicory, applying honey to Uuee 
or four places upon his arms. ^ Don't mind." 

*'No, don't mind," assented Coffee; and they filled their 
mouths full of honey and wax and cried, '' Good, good, good." 

They had spent so long over the journey for the honey that 
evening was coming on fast as they began to ride slowly 
back, Dick and Jack making excursions here and there in 
search of something fresh as they crossed a bushy plain strewn 
with great masses of stone, which rendered their progress very 
slow, any attempt at a trot or canter being absolutely madness, 
unless they wished to lame their steeds. 

*'I wish we had got father's glasses," said Jack, ^we might 
have seen something from this high ground." 

*' I have got them," said Dick, gazing through the binocnlar 
at the prospect of undulating plain, across which his father 
and the Zulu were making their way now, quite a mile in 
advance. ** Tve got them, but I can only sec some quagga right 
over yonder." 

*' I can see something close by," cried Jack, pointing at a tall, 
dimly seen object that slowly passed out of a clump of bushes, 
and then went slowly forward into another. 

" What can you sec ? " said Dick. 

" Giraffe ! " cried Jack. 

"Nonsense! Where?'' 

'' It just went into that clump of bushes there. Come on.** 

" No,'' said Dick, " father's making signals for us to go to him.* 

" But it's such a pity to miss a chance,'* cried Jack, imslinging 
his rifle. 

" Yes," said Dick, " so it is, but I shouldn't like father to 
think we did not attend to his signals. Mark the dump. 
There, wc shall know it by these stones on this high ground ; 
and — yes, Jack, you're right. That must be a giraffe." 

They stood watching the tall neck passing amongst the 
bushes, but it was getting ver>' dark now, and they hurried on, 
so as to overtake the honey-bearers, reaching camp afterwards 



DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FiSH-HOOKS 257 




quite safely, where, over their late dinner, the coming of the 
girafTea was discussed. 



-J 1 ii":; — '-- - -^ IT i-i-'rr^iic bays, if I were you," said 



" > .'. -'¦ 5. -.-5^ I tir-^iiiTir ~3u. TTuai Ifket9 luie a hunt bv 
- ^r-?^ ¦ t;^.' SL.-I "Cr. X-:c?r^ -rasi. seeis^ how disappointed 

T":> T-crrxir::^ =r.-r::t?i 7j ci-u rie cisip, and Coffee and 

J":.>- r srt:i-t« :\=T-.ri" i:aiircciit!2'i or sec beiaj of the party ; 

:«; IT--.: :vc;i ¦.¦:^ >5:T-z.saiJii r: rx£- the co-^ for a run, and 

^ I-.:: i^ 7? riiiinac. rs. :Li-i^' "m^iiized up, and saw their 

1: v.L< .: T j-j :: sc.-v! i .-ur? i irxnm 13 ^cc to the high ground 
^ :».-r; -jis ^ri.-tl: \i' resfi se-ii. the £ict ot there being one, 
?•* - 1< . c::^^ awi. 5a^c v.3^ ±j^ th^r- was x little herd somewhere 
^i :<<; : \ irsc 5C .: pr-*v-c. jcr iitir ci:;t:oc5ly approaching the 
7 jr»'. rciz;;! -^rh the ^rsatesc care, so as to avoid the great 
:::.:5io< ,*:' jc.\'i h-cdi.t aztcc ~5t the |>ais. three tall heads 
^i.:? <v:-:3 ^-cerj:^ ihcct Li x pjiich of trees quite half a mile 
i'*-a ¦. 

-V. ^,::et ir-Tp^irh was ccctr!*.-^i. the hunors making their way 
r:c-i :: t::e ur s.ii cf the -Ivioi? of bushes, where some higher 
tr^-es >h^;I:ir.:vi :heir arrr-ach — ^\er>- barely though, for the 
^r-£,' 5 I^r.^ ce-.lvs enih^ic thezi to peer over bushes and 
sj.r":~^? jfr.o n:e-L= hv'ight. 

r -: : . r this shelter the !:n!e herd would have been off at 
cnce. ar.d they could ha\-e followed them at little better 
ihar. a ^jLlk« on a^cjunt of the rough stones and masses of 
rcv..*c. 

Practice had made them skilt'ul at stalking, and keeping 
pretty close together, they gradually approached the patch of 
tall growth, when, in obedience to a signal from Mr. Rogers, 
the>' separated, Dick and Jack going in opposite directions, and 
Mr. Rogers waiting for a few moments to let the boys get a 
start, and then entering the bush himself. 

So well had the arrangement been timed, that father and 



DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FISH-HOOKS, 259 

sons met together just upon the other side, staring the one at 
the other. 

"Why, where are the giraffes?" cried Jack. 

"Yes, where are they?" said Dick, looking at his father, as 
if he thought he had taken them away. " Haven't you seen 
them?" 

" Not I," said Mr. Rogers, laughing. " Why, boys, we must 
be sharper than this another time." 

"But when did they go?" cried Dick. 

" I cannot tell," replied his father, " unless it was when we 
were out of sight. They must have suspected danger, and gone 
off at full speed." 

"What's to be done now then ?" said Jack. 

" Get up to the top of the nearest hill, and look round with the 
glass," suggested Dick ; and this was so evidently the best plan, 
that they started for an eminence about a mile away. 

Here they had not been a moment, and Mr. Rogers had not 
had time to get out the glass, before Jack cried, — 

" There they go : I see them ; scudding along through those 
bushes in the hollow there." 

Stalking having proved unsuccessful the last time, they 
almost gave it up on this occasion, save that they trotted down 
the side of the hill away from the giraffes, and then cantered on 
so as to reach the same point as that for which the giraffes 
seemed to be making — a long sweep of open plain, where they 
could put their horses to full speed. 

This time the giraffes were in sight as they rounded the 
comer of the hill, and shouting to the boys to each pick out 
one, Mr. Rogers pushed his horse forward, and selecting the 
tallest of the herd, galloped on to cut it off from the rest of the 
herd. 

This needed little care, for the tall ungainly beast realized 
directly that it was being pursued, and separating from the 
herd, went off at a clumsy gallop, its neck outstretched, and its 
tail whisking about as it kept looking back at its pursuer. 

b 2 



26o OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Jack picked out another, which made for the denser part, 
where the trees were thick, and in his excitement he gave his 
cob the rein, and away they went at racing pace. 

But Jack did not gain much upon the giraffe he had chosen, 
for almost before he had seen the colour of its spots at all 
closely, his horse, participating in its master's eagerness, went 
at full speed under a long, low branch, and came out on the 
other side of the wood, but without Jack, who was swept 
violently out of his saddle by the low bough, which swung 
violently to and fro for a few- moments, and then deposited Jack 
softly in a sitting posture upon the ground. The boy rose 
to rub his chest very softly, and then feeling to see whether he 
was all right, he went on in chase of his horse, which he over- 
took standing very patiently just outside the patch of forest, 
looking wonderingly at him, as if asking why he had left its 
back. 

"What a nuisance!" grumbled Jack; "and I daresay 
theyVe both shot giraffes by this time. How unlucky, to be 
sure!" 

He lifted the reins from his horse's feet, and thrusting them 
over its head, mounted again, but not comfortably, for Jack 
felt very sore across the chest where the bough had struck 
him. 

From this post of vantage he could see his father in the dis- 
tance still in chase of the giraffe; but though he looked in 
various directions, there was no Dick. 

" Whoo — hoo — hoo — hoop ! " 

Jack started to look in the direction from whence the sound 
had come, but he could see nothing. He, however, re- 
sponded to the call, and it was repeated, evidently from a patch 
of wood half a mile distant. 

As he cantered towards it, the signal rang out again. 

" Dick's brought down his giraffe very quickly," said Jack- 
" Whoo— hoo— hoo — hoop ! " 

"Here ! Hoi I Jack !*' came now from pretty close to him. 



DICK TRIES THE VEGETABLE FISH-HOOKS. 261 

but in a dense part of the patch of trees ; and riding up, there 
was Dick, with his horse standing perfectly still and looking at 
him. 

" Come along," cried Jack. " Where's your giraffe ? " 

" I don't know. Where's yours ? '* 

" Miles away. I galloped under a tree, and was pulled off 
my horse^ such a bang." 

" We came right into these thorns,'' said Dick, " and have 
been here ever since. 

" What ! can't you get out ? " 
Get out ? No. It's horrible. I'm caught all over, and poor 
old Shoes just the same. Directly I try to make him stir, 
he begins to kick, and when he kicks it's awful. They're like 
fish-hooks, and I'm torn to pieces.'' 

Jack began to laugh. 

'* Ah, yes, you may laugh," said his brother ; " but you wouldn't 
like it." 

" No," laughed Jack, " but you do look such a jolly old guy 
stuck up there, I can't help laughing.'' 

" But do try and help me out." 

"How?" said Jack. 

"Oh, I don't know. Stand still, Shoes, do! Oh, I say, 
don't kick again, pray don't ! Good old horse then." 

Shoes whinnied as his master patted and talked to him, but 
the thorns pricked him so at even this light movement, that 
the poor animal stamped angrily, and snorted as he pawed the 
ground. 

In spite of his intense desire to laugh, Jack saw that matters 
were really serious for his brother ; and leaping off, he threw 
down his reins at his horse's feet, whipped out his great hunt- 
ing-knife, and proceeded to cut and hack away the thorns by 
which his brother and his horse were surrounded. 

They were indeed like fish-hooks, and so sharp and strong, 
that once in amongst them no one could have escaped without 
having clothes and skin ploughed and torn in a terrible way. 



21^2 



OFF TO THE IVILDS, 



Shoes stood perfectly still now. He snorted at times and 
twitched the skin of his withers, turning his great eyes appeal- 
injjly to Jack, who plied his heax-y sheath-knife so eflfectively 
that at List the mass of thorns was sufficiently hacked away to 
allow horse and rider to move. 

Fortunately for Dick, he was a clever horseman. Had he 
ridden like some people, who hang a leg on each side of a horse 
and call that riding, he must ha\*e been thrown. For at the 
first touch to start him. Shoes was so eager to get out of the 
thoniy torture to which he had been subjected, that he made 
a tremendous bound, and alighted clear, trembling and sweating 
profusely. 

** Oh, I say. Jack, I am scratched,** gambled Dick, giving 
himself soft rubs all over. " Don't laugh. It does hurt so." 

" Rut 1 feel as if I can't help it," cried Jack, who burst into 
a fresh roar. 

" 1 don't think I should have laughed at poor old Dinny, if 
I had known how it hurts. Those thorns are nearly as sharp 
as needles.'* 

*' Well, there, I won't laugh any more ; but you weren't tossed 
up on the thorns by a rhinoceros. Come along. Let's go 
after father ;" and they set off, but very gently, for Dick's face 
was screwed into a fresh grimace at every motion of the horse, 
while the poor beast itself was marked with little tiny beads of 
blood all over its satin skin. 



263 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

FATHER SHOOTS A GIRAFFE. 

Meanwhile, believing that the boys were in full chase of a 
giraffe apiece, Mr. Rogers had galloped on after the great crea- 
ture he had cut off from the herd, though for a time he could 
not gain upon it at all. The beast's mode of progression was 
very ungainly, and its great stilted legs moved in an awkward 
manner, but it got over the ground very fast. 

Still the plain was open and offered good galloping ground, 
and after a very long stern-chase Mr. Rogers saw tokens of 
the great beast beginning to give way, and thereupon pushed 
forward, the bay responding to the calls he made upon it, so 
that he was soon alongside. 

His rifle was ready, but he hesitated to use it, preferring to 
gallop on and watch the great creature which towered up to 
double the height he sat upon his horse. It kept panting on, 
whisking its tail, and once or twice it made an awkward side- 
wise kick at the horse, but it was ill-directed and of none effect ; 
while at last feeling that he was torturing the great beast, he 
levelled his gun, but his sight was disarranged by another fierce 
kick, which made the horse bound aside. 

Again they thundered on for some distance, when, steadying 
his horse so as to get a good aim, Mr. Rogers levelled, fired, 
and the monster came down with a crash, shot through the 
head. 

As the great giraffe lay motionless, Mr. Rogers leaped down, 
after looking to see if his boys were coming ; and then loosen- 
ing his horse's girths he let it graze amongst the rich grass thax 



OFF 70 THE ll//.Pi>\ 




);rcw in patches licrc and there, while, after refreshing himxlf 
a link-, hL- ilrew liis huntinj-knifc and proceeded dexterously 



FATHER SHOOTS A GIRAFFE, 265 

to skin the great animal, which must have stood about nineteen 
feet from horn to hoof. 

For the skin of the giraffe — if a fine one — is worth three or four 
pounds, and this was in magnificent condition. 

It was a hard task that skinning, but the long legs acted as 
levers when he wanted to turn the creature over, and the busily 
employed time skipped away, quite three hours having elapsed 
before Dick and Jack rode up. 

"Why, what a magnificent skin, father," cried Dick, as he 
stood admiring the creamy drab, splashed and spotted with 
great patches of a rich yellowish brown. " What a monster, and 
what a height ! " 

•* Yes," said Mr. Rogers. •* But I've had enough of this, boys. 
The great gentle beast looked so piteous and appealing at me 
that I feel ashamed of having killed it. You must shoot one 
apiece I suppose, but after that let's get to the savage animals 
again. One feels to have done a good deed in ridding the 
country of one of those brutes. Did you both kill yours ? " 

" No, father," they cried in chorus ; and after helping to cut 
ofif the marrow-bones of the great beast to carry home, for a 
roast, the marrow being esteemed a delicacy ; the heavy skin 
was mounted before Mr. Rogers, and a couple of marrow- 
bones apiece proving a load, they rode slowly for the camp, 
Mr. Rogers listening to the account of his boys' mishaps, both 
showing traces of having been in the wars. 

Evening was coming on fast, and their progress was neces- 
sarily slow ; but it was not until it had turned quite dark, that 
the fact became evident that they had lost their way out there 
on that great wild. 

They drew rein and looked around, but not a single familiar 
landmark was in sight. On the contrary, all loomed up strange 
and peculiar. 

To have gone on meant only wearying themselves in vain, and 
perhaps an unpleasant encounter with lions; so they made straight 
for the nearest patch of wood, secured their horses, and rapidly 



266 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



hacked o5 and collected enough wood for a fire, to do duty in 
a threefold way — gi\ing them warmth, safety from prowling 
beasts, and cooking the huge marrow-bones, which were soon 
set down to roast, and formed, with the biscuits they carried, no 
despicable meaL 

Such nights passed by a blazing fire on the edge of a wood 
sound very romantic, but they lose their attraction when tried. 
Hot as Africa is by day, icy winds often blow by night, and they 
will freeze the hunter inside the shelter of a tent ; the coolness 
then of a night without shelter can be understood. Fhe fire 
burnt one side, but, as Jack said, without you made the fire all 
round you, it was no good, and that they could not do. 

No one felt disposed to sleep, so they sat and warmed them- 
selves as best they could, drawing the great giraffe skin round 
them for warmth. Then they talked till they were weary, and 
after^^-ards got up to pat and comfort their horses. 

It was very wearisome that night, but free from adventure ; 
and the moment it was light they mounted and rode to the 
nearest eminence, from which they made out landmarks which 
enabled them to find their way back to camp, where the 
General and his two boys were missing, having gone out, as 
they said in their trouble, because Mr. Rogers and the boys had 
not returned — " to look for Boss ;" their joy knowing no bounds 
when they came back in a couple of hours, without finding those 
they had sought, and seeing them waiting there. 



267 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

HOW DICK CAPTURED FOUR YARDS OF ANIMAL. 

Mr. Rogers' description of the death of the gentle, harmless 
beast — its piteous looks, the great tears rolling from its expres- 
sive eyes, and its many struggles to get away, somewhat 
damped the ardour of Dick and Jack, who settled in council 
that it was too bad to shoot giraffe, and as they had a skin of 
the great creature, which was stretched out to dry, they would 
shoot no more. 

As for that magnificent skin, Rough'un seemed to consider 
that it was placed there for his especial benefit ; and to the 
great disgust of Pompey, Cajsar, and Crassus, who were tied up 
and could not join, but had to be content at straining at their 
chains and looking-on, Rough'un amused himself by licking 
the skin, especially where there were little bits of fat, till he was 
tired, and then creeping under the hairy side to sleep. 

This he kept up for a whole day. The second day he gave 
it up, for the skin was rapidly assuming the character of a hard 
board; but the triumvirate were as impatient as ever, and 
barked incessantly. 

This annoyed Dinny, who borrowed Peter's great whip to 
administer punishment ; but at the first crack and howl, 
Rough'un, who was loyalty itself to his kind, left the hard skin that 
he had been smelling and scratching with his forepaw, and flew 
at Dinny, exclaiming in dog language, — 

** Let them alone, you coward ; you wouldn't dare to hurt 
them if they were free." 

•*Ah, get out, ye ugly murthering baste," roared Dinny, cracking 



268 OFF TO THE WJLDS, 

the whip, but in no way intimidating Rough'un, who seemed 
to know that he was perfectly safe, the whip being only avail- 
able for use at long distances, and Rough'un keeping close to, and 
baying and charging at Dinn/s legs. 

" Be off, or I'll be the death of you," said Dinny, cracking the 
whip again ; but in nowise dismayed, Rough'un kept up the 
attack, till Dinny literally turned, and fled to obtain his rifle ; 
when Rough'un gave a final bark, and growled at the triumvirate, 
and the triumvirate were so much obliged that they growled at 
Rough'un, who coiled himself up in the sun on the malodorous 
skin and went to sleep. 

Dick and Jack were busy saddling their horses while this 
took place, and stood laughing and enjoying the scene. They 
were joined directly after by their father, who with the help of Dick 
had been doing a little amateur farriery work, and freshly nail- 
ing a couple of loose shoes on his horse's hoofs. Then, after 
providing themselves with some dried meat and biscuit, they 
rode off through the forest on to the plain, leaving the General, 
Coffee, and Chicory, to provide something for the larder. 

This was to be their last day here, for Mr. Rogers was 
anxious that they should get on, for the twofold object of seeing 
the great falls of the big river, and also getting amongst the 
elephant. 

He could not help smiling with satisfaction, as he saw Dick 
raise one foot to the stirrup, and spring into the saddle ; the boy 
seeming to have grown lithe and strong as the young leopard 
with his healthy life in the open air. 

There was no need to coax his appetite now with luxuries, for 
his father used to banter him laughingly about its wolfishness, 
and compare his food-assimilating powers to those of Coffee and 
Chicory — boys who could literally graze upon meat by the hour 
together, and then grin, and show their teeth with satisfaction. 

With his returning health, Dick had grown daring to a degree 
that was almost rash, so that Jack felt at times quite thrown 
into the shade. 



DICK CAPTURES FOUR YARDS OF ANIMAL, 269 

Dick winced a little upon this occasion, for the tremendous 
scratching he had had from the thorns had left him rather 
sore ; but he soon forgot all this, and away the party rode, to 
have a sort of naturalists* equestrian ramble, to see if they 
could pick up anything fresh before they went away. 

They rode right off to the plain, noting the various birds 
among the bushes, and snakes and lizards wherever there was 
a dry sandy patch amongst rocks and stones. As they reached 
the part where the trees were scattered in park-like patches 
they encountered one of the bees*-honey guides too ; but as 
they had an ample supply at the waggon, and all the buckets 
being, to Dinn/s great annoyance, still in use, the bees were left 
in peace. 

Game seemed to be scarce upon the plain that morning ; but 
after a time as they rode round the edge of a clump of trees, so 
beautiful in their disposition that they seemed to have been 
planted there for ornament, Mr. Rogers saw, a couple of miles 
away upon the open plain, a herd of something different to any 
of the animals they had before encountered. 

He took out his glass and carefully inspected them, but 
declared himself no wiser. 

** Well, boys,'' he said, " whether w^e shoot one or no, we'll 
have a canter after them. Let's keep down in that hollow, 
and round the little hill there, so as to approach unseen. Look 
out for ant-bear holes. And now, one — two — three — forward ! " 

A touch from the heel made the beautiful animals they rode 
bound away, but with a cry of pain Dick reined in. 

" My dear boy, what's the matter ? " said Mr. Rogers, pulling 
up, while Jack returned w^ith a blank look of dismay upon his 
face. 

"Thorns ! " cried Dick viciously, as he gave a writhe in his 
saddle. 

** Stop and pick 'em out with a pin," cried Jack. " Come 
along, father. Haw ! haw ! haw ! I thought he was hurt ! " 
Then sticking his knees into his nag's side, he bounded off. 



270 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

** Poor old fellow ! " cried Mr. Rogers, laughing. " You'll 
soon forget them." And he too galloped off, to try and circum- 
vent the herd. 

** Go on I ugly old Jack/' shouted Dick, as he sat fast, checking 
his horse, which wanted to follow. " Youll get a thorn or two in 
yourself some day." 

He might have shouted this through a speaking trumpet, 
and his brother would not have heard, as, sitting well down in 
his saddle, he led the way into the hollow, his father close 
behind, and both thoroughly enjoying their gallop. 

** I don't care ! " cried Dick sulkily, as he sat and watched 
them. " Pick out the thorns with a pin, indeed ! See if I don't 
stick a pin in old Jack when he*s asleep to-night — and how will 
hcKkeit?" 

Dick gave another writhe as he watched the two riders out 
of si^jht, and then muttering in an ill-used way, " Pick *em out 
with a pin indeed ! '' he half turned in his seat, lolling in his 
saddle, and patting and playing with his horse, when lazily 
turning his eyes round amongst the clumps of trees, he saw 
something moving amongst the leaves. 

" Boa-constrictors ! " he cried in his astonishment. "Monsters ! 
Ugh ! No, they're those great long-necked giraffes. They 
looked just like huge snakes raising themselves amongst the 
trees." 

Dick forgot all about the thorns as he nipped his nag's sides 
with his knees, turned its head, and went off at a canter for the 
place where the giraffes, seven or eight in number, were brows- 
ing upon the lower branches of the trees, their long necks seem- 
ing to writhe in and out amongst the branches in a way that 
quite justified Dick's idea of their being serpents, for their 
bodies were invisible among the undergrowth. 

For a few minutes the great animals did not see the approach 
of the young hunter; but the moment they caught sight of the 
fleet cob bounding over the sunburnt grass, they went off at a 
clumsy waddling gallop, scattering as they went, their necks 



DICK CAPTURES FOUR YARDS OF ANIMAL, 271 

outstretclied and eyes rolling ; while the cob seemed to single 
out a beautifully marked calf, about two-thirds grown, whose 
creamy skin was regularly spotted with rich light brown, 

Dick's rifle was slung over his back, but he never once 
thought of using it. In fact, he hardly knew in the excitement 
of the chase what he intended, and so he raced on past 
patch after patch of scattered trees, and past clumps of thorns, 
which both he and the cob carefully avoided. 

Now they gained a little ; but directly after the giraffe whisked 
its tail straight up over its back and put on more power, leaving 
the hunter some distance behind ; and so the race went on for 
a couple of miles, Dick never once remembering his thorns, as 
he knew that it was only a question of time to run the great . 
animal to a stand. 

**Why, I could catch it then," cried Dick excitedly; and 
sticking his heels into his horse, away they went over the grassy 
plain, gaining rapidly now ; and though the giraffe kept on 
making an effort to increase the distance, it was of no avail, for 
the cob raced on closer and closer, and then avoiding the 
vicious kicks of the creature, delivered with tremendous force 
by its bony legs, the cob raced on alongside. 

There was a wonderful difference in the progress of the two 
animals — the one awkward, and seeming as if running on stilts ; 
the other compact, muscular, and self-contained, evidently 
possessing double the endurance with an equal speed to the 
giraffe. 

On still and on, with the cob's sides flecked with foam, and 
the giraffe blundering now as it progressed. Once it turned 
sharp off to the left, but without a touch the cob wheeled as 
well, and kept alongside, watchfully keeping clear whenever he 
saw the giraffe about to kick, which it tried to do if there was 
a chance. 

Dick was excited with the chase, so was the cob, which 
stretched out more and more greyhound fashion as it raced along. 

Fortunately, the grassy prairie-like stretch of land was clear 



OJ-F TO THE WILDS. 




of obsl[i(-k'S, no .nnt-bcar or other burrow coming in their path, (r 
hoTSC and rider would Xviva fallca licaUlonj; ; the eyes of both 



DICK CAPTURES FOUR YARDS OF ANIMAL, 273 

being fixed upon the beautiful spotted coat of the giraffe, which. 
after rolling heavily in its gait for a while, made one more 
effort to wheel round and distance its pursuers, but stumbled 
in the act, and fell heavily upon its fiank. 

The cob stopped as if by instinct; and hardly knowing what he 
was about, Dick leaped down, avoided a kick by a quick jump, 
threw himself on to the giraffe, kneeling upon its neck, and 
treating it as people do a fallen horse, holding down its head 
upon the ground. 

•'Ah, you may kick and plunge," muttered Dick, panting and 
hot with his exertions ; " if a horse can't get up with his head 
held down, you can't" 

And so it proved, for though the unfortunate giraffe kicked 
and plunged as it lay upon its flank, going through the motions 
of galloping, it was completely mastered without much call for 
effort. Certainly Dick's gun was in his way, but he managed 
to unsling it with one hand, and threw it and his hat upon the 
grass, while the cob stood by snufting, snorting, and excited for 
a few moments at the giraffe's plunges, but settled down directly 
after to graze. 

The grass was torn up by the giraffe's hoofs, but finding its 
efforts vain, it soon lay perfectly still, uttering a piteous sigh, as 
much as to say, ** There, kill me out of my misery ! " to which 
Dick responded by patting its neck and stroking its nose, as he 
gazed in the great prominent appealing eye, and noted the gentle 
mien of the tall animal. 

Just as he had made the giraffe be perfectly still, he heard a dis- 
tant hail, and looking up, therewas Jack coming up at full gallop, 
waving his gun over his head, and with his father close behind; 
for, unknowingly, the race had led Dick somewhat in the 
direction taken by his father and brother, who, after an unsuc- 
cessful gallop after a very wild herd, had drawn rein and 
witnessed the end of the giraffe chase through the glass. 

" Why, Dick, where are the thorns ? " cried his father, as 
they cantered up. 

T 



274 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



*^ Forgot all about 'em» father. Isn*t he a beauty ?" 
" Where is he shot ? " said Mr. Rogers. 
^ Shot ? He isn't shot. I ran him down,** cried Dick. 
" Don^t kill him, then,** cried Jack. 
"Notl. Shall Ilet him go ? " 

'* No, no,* cried Jack. " Let's take him back, and tame him." 
*^ I think the taming is already done," said Mr. Rogers. 
^ Here, halter him round the neck, and muzzle him with this, 
and YOU can tie another thong on at the other side." 

As he spoke he took a tethering halter from his saddle-bow ; 
it was slipped over the giraffe's head, another cord attached so 
that it could be held on either side ; and when this was done, 
Mr. Rogers held one rope. Jack the other, and Dick got off the 
giraife on the side farthest from its legs. 

Pmt there was no more kick left in the tall creature, which 
raised its head, looking humbly at its captors, and then slowly 
rose, shivering, and as gentle as a lamb. 

** There, Dick, sling your gun and mount," cried his father ; 
" unless you would rather ride the giraffe." 

'• Oh, no, thank you,* said Dick, slinging bis gun and picking 
up his hat, prior to mounting his docile cob, after which his 
father handed him the end of the rope. 

After a sniff or two at their tall companion, the two cobs 
walked gently on fonvard, with the giraffe towering up bet^^'een. 
The poor beast made no objection to its captivity, beyond 
sighing a little, but gazed dolefully at its leaders in turn ; the 
only difficulty experienced in getting it to the waggon, being 
how to accommodate the horses* stride to that of the captive, 
which stalked contentedly along, with Mr. Rogers bringing up 
the rear. 



275 



CHAPTER XL. 

¦ 

ONWARD TO WONDERLAND. 

" Bedad, an' his mother must have wathered him well whin 
he was a babby, to make him grow like that," cried Dinny, as 
he saw the tall captive haltered to a tree by the waggon, and 
contentedly beginning to browse upon the tender shoots within 
its reach. " Is thim legs rale, Masther Dick ?" 

" Real ? Of course, Dinny," said Dick, laughing. 

" Shure, an' I didn't know there was any av coorse in the 
matther," said Dinny sententiously. " I thought the injanious 
baste might have been brought up in a wet place, and made 
himshelfshtilts." 

"What nonsense, Dinny ! " cried Jack. 

"Ah, an' I dunno about nonsense, Masther Jack ; for I've 
seen some wondherful things since I've been in these parts. 
An' so we're going to pack up and go home to-morrow, ain't 
we?" 

" We're going to pack up and go farther into the wilds," said 
Dick. 

" Oh, murther ! " 

"There's the great fall to see yet, and we've got elephants to 
shoot" 

" Shure an' I don't want any great falls, or for anny one to see 
it." 

"Nonsense, Dinny. I mean to see the cataract," said 
Dick. 

" Shure, an' it's you as is talking the nonsense now, Masther 
Dick ; for how could ye see if ye'd got a catharact ? " 

T 2 



276 OFF TO THE WILDS, 



** What do you mean, Dinny ? " 

*' What do I mane ? Shure it was my own cousin by me 
mother's side that had a couple o* bad catharacts in his eyes, 
and couldn't see a bit till they took him to the hoshpittle 
•md had 'em out. Ah, they're mortial bad things, Masther 
Dick." 

'* No, no ; I mean a cataract or fall of the river, where it 
tumbles over rocks." 

" An' what would a river go tumbling off rocks for, Masther 
Dick ? AVhy don't it go along quietly ? " 

" Ah, you'll see when we get there,** said Dick. " Ifs a fall 
like that where you nearly got drowned, only hundreds of times 
as bijj." 

*' An d'ye expect me to get in a boat at a place like that, 
Masther Dick? Now, by this and by that, ye don't if I know 
it," 

*' Never mind then, Dinny. You shall take your gun and shoot 
elephants. You know what they're like ? * 

"Shure, I sin a picture o* one wance," said Dinny. "It 
was a little thing wid two tails, one at aych ind ; and the boj as 
showed me tclled me as they're made af ingy-rubber.** 

" Ah, yes, they're very little things," said Dick, laughing ; 
and then they went to their dinner under the tree. 

That evening the new pet was well attended to ; and the 
leopard, now growing a fine sleek beast that loved to roll and 
gambol with the dogs, given his evening meat; and the remains 
of the daylight were spent in packing. 

Next morning early, with the skin secure on the waggon tilt, 
the sleek oxen were once more inspanned, and the waggon 
rolled merrily on towards the falls of the Zambesi. 

Four days trekking through a beautiful country brought 
them to where a continuous vibrating roar was always in the 
air, and in the distance what seemed to be one continuously 
changing cloud, which was lit up by the sun in a wondrous suc- 
cession of hues. 



ONWARD TO WONDERLAND, 277 

The boys gfrew excited with expectation ; and Dinny's face 
became very blank as he whispered to Dick, — 

"Shure, the river don't always go on tumbling like that, 
Masther Jack, do it ? " 

•* Always, Dinny," said Jack, as he too listened, with a feel- 
ing of awe, to the falling water. 

" Thin it must be giving itself a moighty hard whack upon 
the sh tones it falls on, to make it roar like that,'* said Dinny in 
a serio-comic fashion, and he went off to attend to the fire as, 
the General having pointed out a capital place for a halt, Mr. 
Rogers gave the word, and the camp was rapidly formed 

They had come through plenty of beautiful scenery, but the 
rich verdure and beauty of the palms, ferns, and other foliage- 
growths, watered as they were by the soft hazy spray that came 
from the mighty falls, was beyond anything they had yet seen, and 
fiilly justified Mr. Rogers' remark, half made aloud, — 

" What a glorious place this world is after all ! " 

A strong thorn kraal was formed, and after a good feed the 
horses and oxen were secured, and resisting the temptation to 
go that night to inspect the falls — a very dangerous experiment 
in the dark — the fire blazed up, watch was set, and the sight 
deferred to the following day. 

All that night Dick and Jack, when they they were not on 
watch, dreamed of roaring lions, and falls of water, and then of 
thunderstorms ; but towards morning the heavy dull hum lulled 
them to sleep, a sleep so sound that Coffee and Chicory amused 
themselves for ten minutes tickling their noses with strands of 
grass, before they could get them awake. 

Then they both jumped up in an ill-temper, each seizing a 
dark-complexioned tormentor to punch and bang ; but the sight 
of the Zulu boys* merry laughing faces, lit up by their bright eyes 
and white teeth, disarmed all anger, and Dick and Jack 
rubbed the last relic of the night's sleep out of their eyes, and 
went to breakfast. 

The General had been at the falls before, and as soon as the 



378 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

camp was considered straight, Dinny, Peter, and Dirk were 
le(\ behind, and the three bosses, as Chicory called them, went 
otT, with the father to guide, the Zulu boys carrying a basket of 
food. 

The brilliancy of the greens of the various trees around gave 
nn additional charm to what was always a very beautiful land- 
tca}>c, for here it was never dry, and the consequence was that 
("very tree, plant, and tender herb was in the highest state of 
luxuriance. 

They kept a sharp look*out for enemies in the shape of large 
nnimaU, but nothing was seen ; and following the General in 
ftingle lile, they went on and on, with the awful thunder in the 
air growing deeper and louder at every step. 

No water was in sight as they went carefully through the trees 
and huge fn^nded ferns ; nothing but verdure of the richest hues, 
the sun shining through it, and making the dewy leaves glisten 
with a Hhecn like that of many precious stones. 

So loud though was the roar of the water that they knew that 
they n\ust now be near, when all at once they reached an open- 
ing \\\ the forest, and Mr. Rogers and his sons involuntarily 
paused, to gaze at a rainbow of such beauty, and apparently so 
near that it was hanl to Micve that by stretching out the 
hand it could not be toucheil. 

Even as they gazed it disappeared, but only to appear again 
a little farther otT, and in a slightly different position. Then it 
was gone again, and so on and on, a dozen times or so ; but 
always beautiful beyond the power of description. 

When they were weary of gazing the General smiled, and 
went on again towards a soft pearly > looking mist, almost like 
the thinnest smoke ; and for this the boys took it, till Mr. 
Rogers whispered that it was the tine spray rising in clouds from 
the falls. 

On they went, slowly, down amongst fern-hung rocks, and 
narrow ravines full of rich foliage, while tall palms stood up 
every here and there like columns ; and then all at once the 



ONWARD TO WONDERLAND. 279 



General stood aside, and the party, with the earth trembling 
beneath their feet, passed through a screen of trees, and stood 
gazing at one of the wonders of the world. 

Right and left, as far as they could see for the trees, and 
comparatively close to them, the waters of the great river were 
passing over and between a vast barrier of rocks, forming 
nmnberless cataracts, some small, some of large volume. In 
places these fell in a smooth glassy body of water towards 
them, in a glistening curve, down far below and out of their sight, 
while others fell from rocky shelf to shelf, to be broken up into 
foam and spray as, glistening and white, they hurried down to 
join more broken water, as far down as they could see. 

Where they stood was thirty or forty feet below the level of 
the river before it made its spring ; but how far down it fell into 
the awful gulf at their feet they could not tell, but the depth 
teemed to be immense. Mr. Rogers afterwards said it was 400 
foet 

The first instinct of the boys was to go nearer, but, with a 
look of alarm, the General grasped Jack by the arm, and showed 
him that the ground sloped so and was so slippery, that to get 
sear enough to see the bottom of the fall would have been 
to run the greatest risk of falling headlong into the awful 
abyss. 

In mute amazement then they stood, watching the long line of 
cataracts, endless as it were in the beauty and variety of their 
fonns. 

Wonder upon wonder seemed to greet the eye in the colour 
of the waters as they flashed in the sun, some descending in 
huge solid glassy masses of water, others in tiny spirts that 
seemed to make a leap on their own account into the vast 
chasm, falling at last like a shower of fine rain. 

" I could stand and look at it for ever, father," said Dick, in 
a low, awe-inspired voice. '^ Look at the foam there ! look at 
diat spray ! The water is quite white there ! And that great fall 
there, see how it glistens ! Oh, how I should like to be below. 



28o OFF TO THE WILDS. 

and see where the water strikes, and chums up together. 
Could a boat get there ? '* 

Mr. Rogers smiled, and shook his head. 

" Then I should like to be a bird," said Dick quietly, " and 
fly softly through that great gulf.** 

" Till the water made your wings wet, and you fell in and 
were drowned," said matter-of-fact Jack. " I shouldn't ; but I 
should like to get close to the edge, and see the falls from the 
bottom to the top." 

But the General shook his head, and said that it could not be 
done. 

As they grew more used to the scene, they made out that the 
range of cataracts was much farther away than they had at 
first thought, being quite a couple of hundred yards ; but the 
awful thunderous roar, the trembling of the earth beneath their 
feet, and the strange vibration in the air, seemed to confuse 
them, so that everything seemed unreal and strange, and the 
whole vision like some dream. 

They gazed on, never weary of the beauty of the great falls ; 
and then, following their guide, he led them from place to 
place, so that they could see the huge serpentine gorge in which 
the river ran after its fall, rushing wildly between two grand 
walls of rock, its rage becoming the more furious from its 
being a mighty broad river above the falls, and then having to 
compress itself into a gorge not a thirteenth part of its original 
width. 

The speed of the river as it foamed along in this terrible 
ravine, seemed absolutely frightful, and in places where the 
rocks had to bear the brunt of the current as it made some 
sudden turn, the din was terrific. 

Hours were spent in gazing at the verdure-carpeted rocks, 
the brilliant rapids, the wondrous twining creepers, and, abo\'C 
all, at the beauties of this wonder of the world ; and then at 
last they tore themselves unwillingly away, to attend to such 
sadly matter-of-fact affairs as eating and drinking. After 



ONWARD TO WONDERLAND. 



281 



this, as sunset was growing near, they stopped to see the gor- 
geous tints upon the clouds of vapour, and the fresh rainbows 
that kept coming and going as if by magic. 

At last they tore themselves away, silent and awe-inspired at 
the wonders upon which they had gazed, the deep thunder of 
the falling waters rolling in their ears as they journeyed on, 
and keeping up its solemn boom night and day. 

Now as the wind wafted it towards them it came in a deep 
roar, but only to soften and become distant, swelling, and 
rising, and falling, filling their dreams again, as they lay 
beneath the shelter of the canvas tilts, and seeming to wake 
them at the break of day. 



282 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLI. 

ONWARD FROM WONDERLAND. 

They lingered about the falls for days, to revel in the beauties 
of the mighty cataract and the great gorge through which the 
waters afterwards ran. Then unwillingly the oxen were in- 
spanned, and their course was directed up the river, beyond the 
beautiful islands, and on mile after mile, till the bright trans- 
parent river flowed smoothly downward, and from its reedy 
banks plenty of game was obtained, the birds being plentiful, 
and very welcome as a change. 

It was rather a dangerous haunt here on account of the 
crocodiles, but Jack was so passionately fond of Ashing that he 
w^as humoured at times, and some transparent nook was chosen 
where the others could keep a look-out for crocodiles ; and as 
Jack fished, Dick would lie down upon the bank, with his face 
at times close to the water, and gazing through its limpid 
depths he tried to trace the long stalks of the water-lilies 
which rose from the depths to expand their broad leaves and 
cap-like flowers on the surface. The great reeds, too, rising 
joint by joint till their arrowy heads and green streamer-like 
leaves were in the broad sunshine, seemed to be moving and to 
quiver in the clear water. 

This sub-fluvial growth was so beautiful that Dick never 
grew weary of watching it ; while the coming and going of the 
many brightly-tinted flsh, darting about among the water-plants 
or hanging poised in the sunlit depths, with their burnished 
scales flashing silvery and steel-blue rays, added greatly to the 
interest of the scene. 



ONIVARD FROM WONDERLAND, 283 

*• Let us know when you see one coming," Jack would say ; 
and now and then Dick would whisper that a large perch-like 
fish, or perhaps one of the huge eely siluri, was approaching ; 
though just as often Coffee or Chicory would utter a word of 
warning, when a rifle bullet would be sent to startle some great 
crocodile, floating in fancied security down the calm waters, its 
hideous eyes turned from side to side in search of prey. 

Once only did they succeed in getting the monster asKore, 
the others, when hit, sinking sullenly to the bottom, or descend- 
ing with a rush that made the water foam. 

The want of a boat prevented them from having far more 
sport upon the river ; but, as Mr. Rogers said, they had come 
upon a land expedition, and their horses were getting fresh for 
want of work. So Jack had to bring his fishing to an end ; 
though, truth to tell, it was not much of a loss, for his addi- 
tions to the larder in the way of fish were not particularly large, 
nor so toothsome as they might have been. 

The good old round-hand copy slip, •* Familiarity breeds con- 
tempt," is thoroughly exemplified in South Africa ; and it is for- 
tunate that this is the case, or it would be hard work travelling 
across a country where every stone may conceal a poisonous 
serpent, every clump of rocks hold the lurking-place of a boa-con- 
strictor, and every patch of grass its prowling lion or fierce rhi- 
noceros — where a walk along a river*s bank may invite a charge 
from the fierce hippopotamus, and no man can bathe without run- 
ning the risk of being pulled under water and devoured by that 
loathsome saurian lizard the crocodile. 

But familiarity breeds contempt, and after the first nervous- 
ness has worn off people go about in South Africa in a calm 
matter-of-fact way, without troubling themselves about their 
hidden enemies, otherwise than by taking ordinary precautions, 
and keeping what a sailor would call a sharp look-out for 
squalls. 

If this were not so life would be almost intolerable, and every 
one would exist in a state of nervous trepidation as hard as 



284 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



that of the classical gentleman who passed his time T^-ith a keen 
sword suspended over his head by a single hair — no doubt of 
a kind such as would make an admirable roach-line for a fisher- 
man. 

The members of Mr. Rogers' hunting expedition thus passed 
their time happily enough in the continuous round of excitement, 
taking the pleasure and the pain turn and turn as they came ; 
not 'grumbling at thorns, or weariness, or mosquito bites ; rest- 
ing when they grew weary, and putting up with hard couches, 
hunger, and thirst, as they came, without a murmur. They 
looked out for danger in a sharp matter-of-fact way, and by 
consequence rarely had a mishap ; while Dinny, who was a per- 
fect slave to his fears, and never stirred without taking the most 
wonderful precautions, generally managed to come in for the 
worst of the misfortunes that affected the camp. 

It was he who would manage to run his head in the dark 
amidst the prickly euphorbias. If there was a cloud of vicious 
gnats, Dinny generally got bitten. If there was a poisonous 
snake anywhere near the camp, Dinny tried to put his foot upon 
it ; and over and over again when near the crocodile-haunted 
streams he sauntered regularly into the ferocious creature^s 
way. 

The General and his boys saved him from several perils, over 
and over again. But Dinny never seemed to realize that his 
own want of care got him into trouble, always declaring that it 
was '* a baste of a place," and no more to be compared to Ould 
Oireland than a beggar was to a king. 

Dinn/s grumblings would soon have proved to be a nuisance, 
but for a certain quaintness of humour in the man, which sup- 
plied matter for mirth when he was most disagreeable ; and in 
spite of his defects, he was very useful in his way. 

While camp was kept up near the great falls, Jack and Chicory 
had some splendid nesting expeditions, the pendulous weaver- 
birds* nests coming in largelyfor their attention. They disturbed 
very few though, for, as Jack said, it was hard upon the pooc 



ONWARD FROM WONDERLAND. 285 

birds, seeing what a lot of enemies they had — artful monkeys 
slipping down the long thin branches, till they could hang by 
one hand, and thrust the other little thin brown extremity up 
the bottle-neck shaped opening, to forage for eggs or young 
birds, as the case might be. 

Then there were the snakes — long, thin, twining creatures, a 
yard or a yard and a half long, but no thicker than the finger. 
These showed no little cleverness in ascending trees, and pro- 
ceeding along the branches till they found their way to a nest, 
where, in spite of the frantic cries and flutterings of the birds, 
the little serpent would glide in, and the parents might go and 
start afresh, for their labours would prove to have been only to 
find the little snake a pleasant larder, where it could coil up and 
glut itself with food. 

Many of these twining little creatures fell victims to Jack's 
shot-gun, as well as to that of his brother, the guns being con- 
stantly in use as well to bring down the brilliantly plumagcd birds 
that abounded in the rich forest growth of this well-watered 
laAd. 

The glorious scenery of wood, rock, and water had to be left, 
though, at last ; and at the General's suggestion, and by way of 
change, the more rugged part of the country was now sought ; 
though even here there was plenty of wood, and they passed 
along the banks of a pleasant stream that had its rise some- 
where in the mountainous region ahead. 

And now Mr. Rogers began to look out anxiously for a dan- 
ger that, though small, was terribly insidious, and one which, 
if not avoided, would bring a misfortune upon them that they 
would have given anything to avoid. 

This danger was the notorious tsetse fly, whose bite was 
generally fatal to horses, the poisonous nature of the little crea- 
ture so infusing itself in the blood of the unfortunate horses 
bitten that they gradually died off without their owners being 
able to do anything to save them. 

Fortunately the limits of the land occupied by these dangerous 



ONIVARD FROM WONDERLAND, 287 

Game had been rather scarce for some days, when, mounting 
their horses, Dick and Jack left their father with the waggon, 
and went in search of something suitable for present use. 

Partly for the sake of their help, but more particularly to give 
them a change, Pompey and Cajsar were let loose, the latter 
following Dick down to the low land at the side of the stream. 

It was a tolerably open place, dotted with willow-like trees 
rising from amongst the thick grass ; and they had not gone far 
before, after a good deal of rustling about among the reeds 
and grass, Caesar started something, which, however, refused to 
come into sight, but kept running from cover to cover, till at 
last, as Caesar was diligently hunting it by scent, Dick caught 
sight of a dark back, and a head bearing a pair of stout, fully- 
ringed horns, curved back in a remarkable way, and ending in 
very sharp, points. 

It was but a moment's glance, and he had no time to fire be- 
fore the creature was out of sight again ; and he rode on right 
to the very edge of the stream, where he arrived just in time to 
see the antelope leaving the water, across which it had swum, and 
Caesar puffing and panting as he swam on in the creature's wake. 

The antelope looked so playful and full of life as it shook its 
head to get rid of the water that streamed from it, with the drops 
flashing in the sun, that Dick sat like a statue upon his cob ; and 
though he held his rifle ready, he forgot to fire, but let the buck 
bound out of the sliallow water on to the bank and disappear 
amongst the trees, where it went off at a tremendous rate, while 
Caesar, as he reached the bank in turn, paused to get rid of 
some water by a good shake, and then stood and gazed at his 
master, and howled with disappointment that he should not have 
attempted to shoot. 

The consequence was that Dick, after a long ride returned 
empty to camp, where Jack, however, had preceded him, having 
been less scrupulous, and bearing before him a good-sized spring- 
bok, which he had brought down with the longest shot he had 
rver made. 



288 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLII. 

A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEMIES. 

They struck off next day into a wilder portion of the country 
still, the oxen trekking up close to the foot of the mountains, 
the intention being to leave the plains for the present, their at- 
tractions beginning to fail, especially as the party had no desire 
to keep on slaughtering the many varieties of antelope that 
offered themselves as easy victims to their rifles. 

** Let's have something more exciting and manly, father," ex- 
claimed Dick. ** Of course we must keep on shooting for the pot, 
just as a sheep has to be killed now and then at home. But 
we don't want to turn butchers." 

The General nodded approval, and said that they would now 
be amongst the lions again, while on the other side of the stretch 
of rocky country in which they were, he was sure that they 
would find elephant and buffalo. 

The elephants had kept so long* out of their sight that the 
boys began to despair of ever coming in sight of one of the 
monsters ; but when they said so to the old Zulu warrior, he only 
laughed, and said "Wait." 

"It seems to me as if they have all been shot," said Jack. 

But the General shook his head. 

" Plenty of elephants," he said ; ** only wait" 

Pieces of stone had to be used in addition to thorns to make 
the cattle kraal where they now halted, for the land was com- 
paratively sterile after the lush vegetation of the plains ; but a 
little valley supplied ample pasturage for the cattle, and abun- 



A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEMIES, 289 

dant water, and the rocky defiles around promised sport of a 
different kind to any they had before enjoyed. 

Hardly had they pulled up at the spot chosen for the tem- 
porary camp, before Dick called his brother's attention to a 
couple of huge birds, sailing round and round upon extended 
motionless wings over and about the rocky crags and points far 
above their resting-place. 

" Eagles ! ** cried Jack excitedly. 

And as he spoke the boys saw one of the great birds swoop 
down behind a peak and disappear, rising almost directly after 
with something dark in its talons, and flying straight off to a 
shelf of rock far away. 

This was new game indeed, and the boys were eager to go off 
after the great birds ; but they had to help settle camp-matters 
first, the rule being that at every halt the first thing attempted 
was to put the place in a state of defence. 

When this was done there wenc the pets to see to— the leopard 
and giraffe, both of which had grown perfectly tame, the 
leopard being as playful as a kitten, and the giraffe calmly 
bringing its head down low enough to have its nose rubbed, 
while it munched at the handful of fresh tender shoots offered 
as a token of good will. 

Then there were the horses to watch and tend, wood to cut, 
and fire to make ; so that there was plenty of work for all. But 
" willing hands make light work,'' as the saying goes, and they 
were just congratulating themselves upon the successful nature 
of their arrangements, the little camp presenting all they re- 
quired as a centre from which to start upon hunting expeditions — 
to wit, good pasturage, abundant water, and security against 
the attack of lions who might mistake their cattle for the wild 
creatures of the plains. 

" This place ought to do for a week, boys," said Mr. Rogers ; 
^ and now we'll take our rifles and have a look round to see 
what game we are likely to find, and also keep a sharp look- 
out for danger." 

U 



29© OFF TO THE WILDS. 



" Danger ? " said Jack. *• What sort ? *• 

'* Well, I should say there would be plenty of serpents in 
amongst those sun-baked crags up above, probably a lion or two, 
plenty of eagles, and — ah, it is impossible to say what we may 
meet with in a place like this." 

'^ I shall tell Dinny that crocodiles very likely swarm up here, 
that they come up out of the river at this season of the year, and 
lie in wait amongst the rocks." 

^ I think I would confine myself to the truth, Jack,** Said 
his father drily. "Now, are you both loaded? Then come 
along.** 

It was a steep climb upwards, far more so than it looked from 
below, and they were toiling up over the sun-burnt grass towards 
where the rocks rose up precipitously on either side of the nar- 
row gully, when a word of warning from the General arrested 
them, and the rifles of all were held ready. 

For all at once, from behind a mass of rock a couple of hundred 
yards in front and above them, a large black rhinoceros trotted 
into view, holding up its head, and displaying its two boms 
against the grey rock behind him ; and then seeing the hunting- 
party, it snorted and squealed in a most peculiar pig-like 
fashion, and began to trot towards them. 

"Don't fire unless you have a gfood chance," cried Mr. 
Rogers ; " and mind, everybody must make for the rocks, and 
climb up for safety.** 

But there was no need for flight. Hardly had the dumsy* 
looking monster conunenced its headlong charge, when the pre- 
cipitous rocks echoed to a hollow roar, and a patch of dry grass 
seemed to have been suddenly endowed with lifCi and to fling 
itself upon the shoulders of the charging beast 

No one thought of firing ; but the whole party stood there 
watching the novel sight, as a huge lion, which might have made 
one of them its victim, fixed its teeth and claws in the neck and 
shoulders of the rhinoceros ; and as the furious frightened beast 
tore on down the defile, dragging the lion with it, the latter 



A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEMIES. VjH 




PASSIKCtK. 



seemed to give a spring, and fixed iu hind quarters firmly upon 
the tough pachyderm's back. 

V 3 



293 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" Big lion much hungry,'' said Coffee quietly. ** Nosros* sldn 
very hard.'* 

As he spoke Jack had gone down upon one knee, and sent a 
bullet after the fast-receding pair, the echoes of the rifle report 
mingling with the hoarse snorting bellow of the rhinoceros. 

Dick, roused by his brother's example, also took aim and 
Arcil, his father following last. 

Then the two animpils disappeared from view, evidently pass- 
ing pretty near the waggon, but fortunately missing the little 
valley where the cattle were grazing. 

*' Coffee is right," said Mr. Rogers ; ^ that lion must have 
been ravenous, or it would not have attacked such a beast as 
that. Well, boys, you must keep a bright look-out, for we shall 
have to meet the enemy here.** 

^ Hadn't we better go after the rhinoceros?" said Dick. 

*' Whiit would be the use? " said his father; "the monster is 
going at a tremendous rate. No : let*s go higher up amongst 
the rocks.'* 

They passed several snakes, and found one boa constrictor, a 
comparatively sn\all one though, which Coffee and Chicory 
attacked as it lay basking in the sunshine, its bright brown and 
yellow markings glistening in the bright light. 

The boys made their arrangements very quickly, and without 
the slightest hesitation Coffee walked up to the reptile, and as 
it raised its head menacingly he struck it down with a blow of 
his kiri, and a dexterous chop from Chicor/s long-bladed asse- 
gai took off its head. 

What had before seemed a sluggish inert body, now, as in a 
former case, became instantly endowed with spasmodic life^ 
leaping from the stones, twisting, twining, knotting itself, and 
then unfolding and reknotting itself in the most extraordinary 
manner, the grey rocks around being spattered with the blood 
from the bleeding neck, while the severed head lay slowly 
gasping, and biting impotently at a few dry blades of grass 

Dick and Jack seemed as if they would have never tired of 



A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEAflES. 293 

watching the reptile, but their father suggested a move on- 
ward. 

** How long do you think that was, father ? ' said Dick, as 
they climbed on, each step bringing them to a more toilsome 
way. 

" Probably a dozen feet, and a good deal thicker than my 
arm," replied Mr. Rogers. " I should like to see one seize its 
prey, though, and watch the whole course of its constricting 
and swallowing the animal it has caught. And now, boys, I 
think we will go up as far as the end of this narrow pass, and 
then turn back and close the camp for the evening." 

They went to the end, always rising, with the scenery grow- 
ing wilder and more grand at every step; and at last Mr. 
Rogers paused. 
* Oh, let's go up to the top now," cried Dick eagerly. 
" You can, boys ; but make haste," said their father. 
" The top " was the edge of a ridge some four hundred feet 
above their heads, and as Mr. Rogers sat down to rest, the 
boys climbed on, finding the difficulties of the ascent greater 
than they had expected ; but they kept on, manfully helped by 
Coffee and Chicory, who were always ready to push, to pull, or 
hold a rifle, and in this way they reached what proved to be 
quite a narrow edge, with some jagged pinnacles on their right, 
and a steep slope in front. But what took their attention most 
was an eagle in full pursuit of a lovely little slender-legged 
gazelle, which was straining every efTort as it came up a long 
narrow defile to escape from its terrible enemy. 

The gazelle was quite a hundred yards below them to tbetr 
left as they saw it first, and they watched its progress with a 
fascinated interest as it came nearer as if to pass them, with 
the eagle gliding along over it as it bounded along, and then 
making dart after dart at it with its tremendous claws. 

The eagle looked as huge as the gazelle looked graceful and 
tiny ; and each moment the boys made sure that it was struck, 
but the baiHed eagle rose again and again for another swoop, 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




till, unable to beai rt longer, Dick threw himseir upon his fa«, 
jested his rifle upoiv\hct\4s6"«'^t'K*i^«*-^««f'^'"'n>fi'^i 



A QUARREL BETWEEN TWO ENEMIES. 29$ 

and Jack shouted ^ Hurray ! " for as the smoke rose, and the 
echoes died away in the distance, the eagle could be seen lying 
flapping its wings upon the ground, raising a cloud of dust about it, 
and the gazelle disappeared round some rocks ; while Coffee and 
Chicory, kiri in hand, were sliding down the rocky face of the 
precipice, to cross a narrow chasm below, bent upon finishing 
the monstrous bird's struggles with the kiris they grasped in 
their hands. 

The place they descended was almost dangerous at times, 
but the two Zulu boys made nothing of it, and were soon 
approaching the spot where the bird had fallen. 

As it saw them approach, it left off flapping its wings, turned 
itself upon its back, and struck at them savagely with its power- 
ful talons. 

The boys were not daunted though, and making a dash in, 
Coffee struck at the bird and missed it, receiving, in return for 
his intended blow, an ugly scratch from the eagle, which was 
about to bury its beak in his leg when Chicory's kiri struck it 
heavily upon the neck, and the fight was over ; the bird's head 
dropping upon one side, and its powers of doing mischief for 
ever gone. 

Then each seized a wing, and they bore it in triumph to 
their young leaders, who in turn helped to carry the majestic 
bird down to where Mr. Rogers was waiting, ready to take 
great interest in their prize, but also eager to hurry them back 
to the waggon, where they arrived to find all right, and the 
cattle carefully secured in their kraaL 



296 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

DINNY IN '^THROUBLE* AGAIN. 

''An' if there was one there was over a thousand of thim, sor,* 
cried Dinny, a day or two later, when he had been out with 
Peter to bring Ijack a strayed ox. ** Ye niver see such savage 
little men in yer loife, sor. They came at us shouting bad 
language, and calling us all the blayguards they could lay their 
tongues to ; and then one avil-looking owld reprobate ups wid 
a shtone and throws it at me. That was jist what the others 
wanted — a bad patthem, sor — and they beg^ shying shtones 
as hard as they could, till Pater and me was obliged to re- 
threat." 

"And you ran away, Dinny?" said Dick; "you let the 
baboons drive you back ? ** 

** The which, sor ? " 

" The baboons, Dinny ; the apes." 

**Ah, ye can call 'cm by that name, Masther Dick, if ye 
loike ; I calls 'em little stumpy men, and as ugly as anything I 
iver see." 

** Well, we shall have to go and pepper them," said Jack. 
** Let's go and tell father, Dick." 

" Share, ye may pepper and salt 'em too, Masther Jack," said 
Dinny, grinning, "but ye'll niver make anything of 'em but 
the toughest mate ye iver saw in yer loives.** 

"Ah, well, Dinny, we'll see," said Jack ; and the two boys 
went and told Mr. Rogers of Dinny and Peter having been at- 
tacked by a troop of baboons, that were close up to the camp 
amongst the rocks. 



DINNY IN <* TMROUBLE » AGAIN. 297 

— - - -¦- - ^. — 

'^ How much of it is exaggeration?'' said Mr. Rogers, who 
was busy filling out some choice bird-skins, the bright plumed 
coverings of some of the natural history treasures he had 
secured. 

" Some of it, of course, father,*' replied Dick. ** But they are 
both cut about the faces with stones.'' 

This being the case, it was decided to try and scare off the 
little vicious animals with -a few charges of duck-shot, reserving 
the bullets in their -rifles in cases of extremity. 

Dinny said he was too much hurt to go to the attack ; but 
the rest of the for<:es were collected, and, led by Peter, they 
made their way up over the ridge into the next valley ; but no 
baboons were in sight, and though they went on their trail for 
some little distance, it seemed to be a useless task ; so, sending 
part of their little company back, Mr. Rogers ^ent in one direc- 
tion, the boys in another, to pass round a rocky hill and meet 
upon the other side. 

Everything was very silent in the stillness ci the hot mid- 
day, and what with the sun's torrid beams, and the reflection 
from the rocks, progress was very slow, till a faintbleating noise, 
that seemed to come from behind a patch of rocks, made the 
boys cock their pieces, and approach cautiously. 

They were so accustomed to hunting now, that they had no 
difficulty in stalking up to the clump of rocks, and there, shel- 
tered behind some bushes, they stood with presented pieces, 
ready to fire, but hesitating for a time before the novelty of the 
scene. 

Just in a depression amongst the rocks, where there was an 
open patch of fine grass, crouched an antelope, with a glossy 
black skin, and a pair of the longest and most beautifully curved 
horns they had ever seen. 

Dick knew it in a moment as the swart vitpense, or lion- 
killer, as it was called by the Boers ; and sure enough it was 
there at bay before a large tawny lion, crouched ready to 
spring, but hesitating to bound and impale itself upon those two 



298 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

finely pointed horns, which the antelope's lowered head pointed 
straight for the charge. 

Twice over the monster seemed about to spring, but each 
time it hesitated, shuffling its feet beneath it, and altering its 
position more to the right ; but the antelope had no intention of 
being taken in flank, and kept changing front so as to meet the 
attack. 

Then for the first time, they saw that the antelope had its 
little one beneath it, and with all a mother's instinct she was 
protecting it with her horns. 

This roused the boys on the instant. They had no sooner 
seen the head of that antelope and its wondrously beautiful 
horns, than they made up their minds to add it and its skin to 
their collection. But the brave mother's defence of her off- 
spring won the young hunters to her side, and they had just 
levelled their rifles for a deadly shot at the lion, when it took 
them unawares, making a sudden spring, meaning to seize the 
antelope on the shoulder ; but she had twisted a little round, so 
that the great cat threw itself right upon the two keen points, 
which passed completely through its body. 

At the same moment the little antelope dashed away, and 
there was a horrible struggle going on upon the patch of grass, 
the lion growling and snarling hideously as it struck at the 
antelope, and then strove to get fi'ee from the horns which the 
swart vitpense dragged out, and then stood up shivering by its 
assailant, which, far from thinking of attacking again, lay upon 
its side, biting the grass and tearing at the ground in its im* 
potent fury. 

Dick would have fired, but the monster had evidently re- 
ceived its death wound ; and it was well he and his brother 
reserved their charges, for, as the injured lion lay wallowing 
in its blood, making the rocks echo to its agonized roar, and 
as the poor torn antelope stood shivering and bkeding there, 
another fierce roar was heard, and a second lion bounded into 
the depression, crouched, and sprang. 



DINNY IN " THRO UBLE » A GAIN, 299 

But quick as he was, the wounded antelope was quicker. 
Dropping upon her knees, her head was lowered, and the 
second lion leaped right upon her horns, dragging itself back, 
spitting and snarling with rage and pain, and then rolling over 
with a couple of bullets through its shoulder. 

The boys loaded, and fired again at the second lion, which, 
though half paralyzed, strove furiously to get at its aggressors ; 
but in vain, for a third bullet made it roll over dead. 

The first lion was already at its last gasp, and there was no 
longer any need for caution ; so, running forward, Dick made 
for the black antelope that was lying upon its side, horribly 
torn, and with its eyes fast glazing ; for the weight of the second 
lion in its bound upon her horns had dislocated her neck. 

*• Poor creature I ** cried Dick. ** Oh, Jack, Td give some- 
thing to be able to bring the poor thing back to life." 

** Why, Dick ? ** asked his father, who had heard the firing 
and ran with the General to join them. " Yes," he said, when 
he had heard his sons' narrative ; '^ poor brave creature ! I 
would gladly see it bounding over the plains again. Why, 
boys, you are growing quite mighty hunters in the land. Only," 
he added, smiling, '' the antelope would have killed the lions 
without your help. But what a head — what horns I That 
skin must be taken off carefully, boys, and the head preserved as 
our greatest trophy. Yes," he said, measuring, "the horns 
are quite— no—three inches short of five feet long, and as sharp 
as needles at the points. You know what it is, of course ?" 

" Yes," said Dick, admiring the jetty black skin and white 
underneath parts, ^ the swart vitpense." 

''Yes, or sable antelope,'' said Mr. Rogers. And then all 
set to work skinning, and a hard, hot, weary task they had be* 
fore the two lions' and the sable antelope's skins, were lying 
upon the ground, when the vultures, patiently waiting at a dis- 
tance, were allowed to come on to their banquet. 

By this time Coffee and Chicory had come up on their trail, 
and helped to carry back the spoil* 



300 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT. 

In spite of their searching, the baboons were not seen till camp 
was being moved again to cross the ridge and descend into the 
plain, when the vicious little animals made so desperate an 
attack upon the party, throwing stones with such accuracy, that 
they had to be treated to a volley, and then to a second, before 
the troop, quite a hundred strong, took to flight; and the dogs 
killed the wounded left upon the ground, but only at the expense 
of some vicious bites from the dying apes. 

They were 6red at with no little compunction, for mingled 
with their dog-like aspect there was a great deal that was 
terribly human, and after shooting one of the largest and 
fiercest, Dick said he felt as if he had committed a murder. 

It was, however, a work of necessity, and nothing but a 
vigorous attack sufHced to drive the malicious little monsters 
away. 

"Anywhere near the Boer settlements these creatures do 
infinite mischief," Mr. Rogers said, ** watching for, and destroy- 
ing the lambs to a terrible extent" 

Days of weary trekking across plains before they came into 
pool-strewn land, where the footprints of buffalo were here and 
there obliterated by the monstrous round track left by the 
elephant. 

And now for the last time before beginning the return 
journey they formed camp, and prepared for some of the most 
serious part of their hunt. 

The General said iVial tht elephants must be plentiful, and 



ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT. 301 

promised to show them the next day; but the boys seemed hardly 
to have sunk into a profound slumber, when they were roused by 
Chicory to tell them that there were elephants in the open 
forest close at hand. 

The news was electrical, and in a very few minutes they were 
standing ready with their father; and strict silence being 
enjoined, they followed the Zulu warrior through the thin forest 
by the light of the moon, till, advancing very cautiously, the 
General made an observation or two, and then came back and 
led the little party to where they could peer from amidst the 
trees and dimly see, looming up from the edge of a great pool, 
the bodies of twenty or thirty elephants of all sizes, busily 
drawing up water in their trunks and squirting it into their 
mouths. 

This they continued for some tim^ grunting, snorting, and 
uttering a peculiar sigh now and then, when, to Dick's surprise, 
he suddenly seemed to see the huge bodies of the elephants 
more plainly, and knew that the day was breaking. 

There was one great beast standing not forty yards from him, 
swinging its trunk to and fro, and flapping its enormous leather- 
like ears against its neck; when, unable to resist the temptation, 
and without pausing to consider whether it was wise or no, he 
took a quick aim at the back of the huge creature's head ; there 
was a flash, and as the report of Dick's piece rang out, a 
tremendous rush, and the elephant herd had gone thundering 
over the plain. 

But not all. The large tusker had fallen over upon its side by 
the pool, and on making a circuit so as to get at it from the 
side of the plain, Dick advanced to find that he had made a 
most fortunate shot, and as he drew near felt struck with 
wonderment at the huge proportions of his first elephant 

After feasting their eyes, the party returned to camp for 
something substantial in the way of breakfast, made toothsome 
with guinea fowl, of which they shot several ; and directly after 
the General went off to chop out the splendid pair of tu&k&> 



OFF TO THE W/LDS. 




dick's lucky 



Dinny accompanying him to have a look U the " uigy>iubber 
bMie," 



ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT. 303 



This done, they started to follow up the trail of the elephants, 
for it was Jack's turn now, and his father wished to add a few 
tusks to the load of treasures in skins they were to take back. 

A long and wearisome following of the trail had no result, 
for it was evident that they had been so scared by the loss of 
their companion that they had gone straight off without pausing 
to feed, in search of safer ground. 

The heat was terrible, and at last they were compelled to 
halt beneath the shade of a clump of trees to rest and refresh. 

This was followed by a nap, and afterwards, they felt so 
disheartened and footsore that they decided to return. 

'' Let's go back, father," Dick had said, '* and come on to- 
morrow morning with the horses." 

'^ To be sure," said Jack. "' We could canter straight here 
without loss of time." 

" What do you say. General ? " asked Mr. Rogers. 

** I say it would be wise," replied .the Zulu. *• The elephants 
leave their path behind them, and you can come up rested and 
ready to fire." 

Even without these Femarks Mr. Rogers would have returned, 
for the dread of over-fatiguing Dick, would have been quite 
sufficient to make him pause. The boy had altered wonderfully ; 
but still there were limits to the fatigue he could bear. 

They went quietly back, then, as the sun was getting low, 
and contented themselves with a few shots at the guinea fowl 
which came over by hundreds, on their way to particular spots 
to roost. 

Before daylight, though, the next morning, they were in 
the saddle, carrying with them provisions and water ; and they 
were miles along the track before the sun showed, by a robe of 
orange and a crown of ruddy rays, that he was about to flood 
the earth once more with light. 

The consequence was that they reached the spot where they 
had left off tracking quite early in the morning, the General, 
Coffee, and Chicory, although they had run all the way, seeming 



364 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

• 

to be as fresh as when they had started^ and laughing at the 
idea of their feeling fatigue. 

Mr. Rogers, however, decided that it would be better to 
proceed with judgment, so a second breakfast was eaten under 
the shade of the trees where they had rested on the previous 
day, there being a limpid pool of water close at hand. 

"That's the best way to carry food, Dick," said Jack, 
laughing. '* I like to have mine in my inside pocket, where it 
isn't in the way ; " and he laughed, as he took a great bite out 
of a piece of cake baked on an iron plate. 

" Ready, boys ? " said Mr. Rogers, just then. 

«* Yes, father." 

" Mount then, and off." 

They were in their saddles on the instant, and made a fresh 
start, with the two Zulu boys following the track at a run, till, 
the sun, growing exceeding hot, a fresh halt was made, but not 
until the General had declared from sundry signs he saw that 
the elephants had been going leisurely now, and that he did 
not think that they were many miles ahead. 

The boys were for immdiate pursuit, but common sense 
suggested a wait, for a pleasant grove was found close to where 
the forest seemed to commence in a very dense thicket, and 
here a good halt was made. 

The sun poured down here with greater violence than they 
had felt before, and after lightening their load once more by 
reducing their stock of provisions, in spite of their efforts 
such a drowsiness set in that in a very short time the whole 
party were asleep. 

Dick was awakened by Coffee laying his hand upon his 
mouth and shaking him, whispering the word '' Elephant ! " in 
his ear, as he opened his eyes ; while at the same time. Chicory 
and the General were performing the like duty for Jack and his 
father. 

Obeying the advice of the General, they all stole off cautiously 
towards the dense thicket close at hand, from which came the 



[*W« 



ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT. 305 

noise of breaking branches, and strange snorts and sighs 
mingled with the squirting and splashing of water. 

In a few words the General explained that the elephants had 
returned upon their track to the forest in front* and upon 
cautiously creeping from bush to bush to stalk them, each of 
the party under the guidance of a Zulu, they found that the 
dense thicket was a mere band, and that all beyond it was 
open park-like land, with several pools scattered about, in which 
the elephants were standing, splashing the water, sucking it 
up and squirting it over their dark skins, uttering a low sigh of 
satisfaction from time to time. 

Dick was in an unlucky position, for, while both his father 
and Jack were so placed as to get an easy shot at an elephant, 
he could only fire at long range. This, however, he decided to 
do as soon as his father and brother had had a shot. 

Meanwhile Mr. Rogers had marked out for himself a fine young 
elephant with moderate tusks. There was one with bigger 
tusks behind, but not being armed with an elephant gun he 
felt that it would be better to make sure of the smaller one than 
risk the loss of all ; «o approaching cautiously he did not per- 
ceive that the ground before him was swampy, and fell head- 
long in the mud and water. 

He lay perfectly still, though, and fortunately — unfortunately 
for him — the herd did not take flight, but attributing the noise 
to one of their fellows, they went on splashing and cooling 
their sides, breaking off boughs to tuck into their capacious 
mouths, writhing and twisting their probosces about the 
while. 

After a few moments Dick saw his father rise, walk forward 
to the side of some bushes, take aim at the elephant he had 
marked down, and just as it was passing along towards one of 
the pools he fired. 

The piece made such a strange noise that it alarmed Jack 
and the General. As for Dick, to his horror he saw the rifle 
ily to pieces, and his feather fall backwards upon the grass. 

X 



3o6 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Dick took no notice of the elephants, which went crashing 
amongst the trees. Jack getting a bullet home as they broke 
towards Dick, nearly trampling him down in their course as 
he ran to his father's side. 

To his horror Mr. Rogers was insensible, snrroimded by the 
fragments of his shattered gun, his face bleeding profusely, and 
for the moment Dick was ready to stand there wringing his bands. 

But common sense prevailed. 

There was no nmning into the next street to fetch a doctor, 
so he hastily knelt down, and began to pour the contents of 
his bottle upon his handkerchief, washing away the blood, and 
bandaging up the cuts upon his father's forehead. 

This cooling application of water had the effect of making 
the injured man open his eyes, and reply to the eager 
inquiries of his sons. 

^Only a bit stunned, my boys, and a few cuts," he said. 
** It is a mercy I was not killed.*' 

" What a bad rifle 1 " exclaimed Jack indignantly, as he 
helped his father to rise* 

" What a bad sportsman, you should say, my boy,* replied 
his father, whose face now looked less pallid. ^ I ought to have 
known better. My rifle must have been plugged with mud from 
my fall, and I did not examine it first That would burst the 
best gun ever made." 

He found he could walk without assistance, and afler kneel- 
ing down by a pool that had been left unsullied by the elephants, 
and having a good drink and bathe at his wounds, he rose up 
refreshed, and turned with the boys to see what was the result 
of their shots. 

Better than they had expected. Two elephants were badly 
wounded, and Chicory had marked them down in a clump of 
trees half a mile away. 

It required caution now to approach them, for the beasts 
would probably be furious ; but by skilful management they 
were stalked, and the boys, after two or three shots apiece, sue- 



ELEPHANTS IN SIGHT. 



307 



ceeded in laying the monsters low, each falling over upon its 
side with a terrible crash. 

The General soon hacked out the good-sized tusks, and these 
were borne to the grove where the horses had been left to 
graze. 

** It never rains but it pours,** said Mr. Rogers quietly, as 
he slapped the flanks and neck of his horse rapidly. ^ Quick, 
boys, look at your own, and if they have nothing on them — no 
little flies something like house flies — ^take a tusk each, and ride 
back along the track as quick as you can go.** 

The boys eagerly obeyed, and seeing no trace of flies, 
mounted, each with a tusk before him, and cantered away, 
Mr. Rogers following more slowly with the bay and the Zulus 
— for the mischief was done ; the terrible tsetze fly had attacked 
the fine old horse, and it was only a question of days or weeks 
before the poison would have finished its work. 

As it proved the two cobs had escaped almost by a miracle ; 
but the adventure was a warning to the party not to venture 
further, for they had evidently made their way into a part of 
the country where this terrible enemy to horses abounds. 



3o8 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLV. 

A FLIGHT FROM A FLY. 

There was no time to lose, for, to the dismay of all, Peter 
amiounced that he had found tsetze Hy that afternoon upon the 
two horses that had been grazing near the waggon. 

" Three horses gone, boys," said Mr. Rogers. '* It is a bad 
job ; but it would have been worse if it had happened to your 
})ets. We must be well on the way back into a more whole- 
some country before day, so lie down and have a rest at once. 
The General or the boys shall go on with you, so that you may 
try to save yoiu: nags. Ill come on with the rest" 

* But your horses don't seem any the worse for it, father,** 
said Dick. 

^ No, my boy, and it may not show for days ; but the poison 
will work, and they will gradually grow weaker and weaker. 
They are all doomed." 

'* But is there no cure for it, father ? • 

** None that I know of, my boys ; and it must act as a preven- 
tative to the opening out of this grand country to civilization, 
unless man can improve these poisonous little pests off the face 
of the earth." 

" It is wonderful," cried Dick ; " such a little fly to do so 
much mischief." 

Coffee and Chicory aroused them hours before it was day, 
and with the understanding that they were to keep on till night 
straight back upon their old track, the boys started, enjoying 
to a certaint extent the journey without the waggon, but feeling 
the awful loneliness of the country now more and more. 



A FUGHT FROM A PL V. 309 

They made the best of their way od, however, getting over 
all the ground possible, not halting till it was almost darl^ 
and hardly leaving themselves time to collect enough wood for 
a roaring fire, which they kept blazing turn and turn, for they 
were in a place where from the sounds they heard lions seemed 
to be plentiful once more. 

The next morning they were able to add some guinea-fowl 
and a little gazelle to their scanty store of dried meat, and as 
they had nothing now to do but wait for the coming of the 
waggon, they amused themselves by exploring a little here and 
there as their horses grazed, their ramble resulting in the dis- 
covery of many beautiful flowers and insects, such as they had 
not seen before. 

That day went by, but still no> waggon arrived ; and as they 
again made up their roaring fire, the boys felt no little uneasi- 
ness, till they began to recall what a slow leisurely crawl was 
that of the ox-team, and that they had come over the greater 
part of their journey at a brisk canter, with which, by holding 
on to the cob's mane, the two Zulu boys seemed to have no 
difficulty in keeping up* 

But all doubts were solved the next morning by the arrival 
of the waggon, those who accompanied it being only too ready 
to join in the roast ready for breakfast. 

There had been no delay ; the length of time was only due 
to the slow progress of the oxen ; and this slow progress con- 
tinued, as, avoiding the back track, they made their way by 
another route to where King Mosete was ready to receive 
them with open arms, and was made happy by the presenta* 
tion of some of the surplus store of beads and other trifles, 
Mn Rogers retaining merely enough for their wants on the 
way back. 

The king was eager enough to be generous in turn, pre- 
senting his guests with several tusks and some beautiful skins 
and ostrich feathers, which added in no little degree to the 
travellers' store. 



3IO OFF TO THE WILDS, 

Here Mr. Rogers shot a ooople of hippopotami, and the 
boys made some good practice amongst the hideous crocodiles 
that were every day killing some one or other of the king's 
subjects. Now it was a girl gone down to draw water ; at 
another time a boy Tenttirxng to bathe. And the travdlers 
could not help admiring the love of cleanliness amongst these 
people, for too often they had to risk their lives for the sake of 
a bathe. 

The horses had now be<^n to show signs of having been 
bitten by the tsetze fly, the chestnut and grey displaying rough* 
ened skins and a general uneasiness; while the bay, though 
slightly roughened about the coat, still held out 

They lost no time then in getting on with their journey 
southwards, meeting with plenty of vicissitudes in the shape of 
hanger, heat, and thirst, but taking these calmly, along with the 
good things; and at last the Limpopo was once more 
reached. 

The reader of this, who knows how easily a person may have 
his tea in London and his breakfast the next morning in Scot- 
land — ^400 miles — may be surprised to hear that to get over such 
a distance in South Africa with a heavy waggon and an ox-team 
takes over a month ; and a driver and foreloper would consider 
that they had done well if they had achieved so much. 

For hurrying means losing ground. The oxen must be kept 
well fed with good pasture, and not overworked, or in a few 
hours sores will be produced by the harsh yokes that will take 
a month to cure, if they ever heal at all. 

But the country was grand, and the weather exceptionally 
lovely, as they made their way southward, crossing the Lim- 
popo without accident, in spite of the crocodiles, Dtnny 
managing to get a place on the top of the waggon tilt just 
before they started to ford the stream. 

**Why, what are you doing there> Dinny?" cried Dick, who 
was the first to see him. 

^ Shure, Masther Dick, dear, I was feared for these valuable 



A FLIGHT FROM A FLY. 31 1 

skins that lie stretched out here, for I says to meself, ' Dinny/ 
I says, ' if the masther was to have thim skins slip off into the 
dirthy river, he'd never forgive himself.' • 

So amidst a good deal of laughter Dinny crossed over the 
crocodile river on the top of the tilt ; while, as much alarmed as 
he, the dogs, taught by experience, kept close behind the after- 
most oxen's heels, swimming with the protection of the waggon 
wheels on either side. 

Mr. Rogers proposed that they should go back byway of 
the district where there were some curious caves, saying that it 
would be a pity to be within reach and not to see them. So 
with the intent of making a halt near them, the General an- 
nouncing his intention of finding the place, though he had never 
been there before, the return journey was continued. 

This return journey was^ as maybe supposed, one of months, 
but it was not uneventfuL The constant demands of the 
larder rendered hunting necessary almost every day ; and in 
these hunting expeditions beautiful skins, and horns of great 
size and peculiarity, were obtained. Every day, too, added to 
the collection of gorgeously-plumaged birds and bright beetles ; 
several times over, too, they were able to add a goodly bundle 
of ostrich plumes to the store. 

It may sound strange, but over this even Dinny felt aggrieved, 
coming to Dick coolly enough one night, just before sleeping 
time, with, — 

" Would ye mind handing me out two or three of thim 
bundles o' feathers, Masther Dick, dear?" 

•' What for, Dinny ? " he asked in astonishment. 

"An* is it what for? " said Dinny indignantly; "shure, an* ye 
wouldn't have a boy slape on the bare flure, when ye've got 
hapes of feather to make beds with inside ?" 

Poor Dinny was sent to the right about, and the feathers had 
a very narrow escape the very next day from being burned to 
blackened ashes. 



312 OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLVL 

THE BAT RUNS HIS LAST RACE. 

DURIHG the loog-badcwaxd joomey, poor Smfler the chestnut 
and Toothpick the grey soccmnbed to the poison of the tsetze 
fly, gradually waning away so, poor beasts* that Mr. Rogers felt 
glad when on one occasion a lion leaped upon the half-dead 
diestnut and dragged it down — dying in the act though, for 
Dick's hfle sent a bullet crashing through the monsters head. 

There was the same feeling about poor Toothpick the grevy 
which lay down to rest one night, and was found stretched out 
dead the next morning. 

The bay, however, held oat; and it was wonderful what 
?itality he possessed. Poor beast ! he was fsuthfid to the end, 
his last act being the saving of his master's hfe. 

They had outspanned one night at the edge of a vast plain, 
meaning to start again early the next morning ; but as they rose 
and gazed at the vast expanse of sun-dried grass and bushes, 
dotted all over with great herds of pallah, koodoo, hartebeeste, and 
spring-bok, with zebras and quaggas, more than they had before 
seen, both Mr. Rogers and the boys felt that they must have 
one more day's hunting amongst them; and, each with his 
faithful Zulu, they set off to try and stalk one of the herds. 

The horses were brought into requisition, and the miles of 
space intervening was got over before, by means of his glass, 
Mr. Rogers saw that they were not alone in the field. 

He could just discern horsemen and a waggon on the iar 
side of the plain, miles away, but their shapes distinctly visible 



THE BA y RUNS HIS LAST RACE. 313 

with the glass in that pure atmosphere, as they lay on a dis- 
tant ridge, the waggon standing out against the sky. 

They had excellent sport, consequent upon the party on 
the other side driving the game in their direction, and, lured 
on by the fascination of the pursuit, Mr. Rogers had gone 
farther and farther, till suddenly he heard a shout from the 
GeneraL 

He needed no telling why the Zulu had been guilty of so 
unsportsmanlike a proceeding, for on his right, travelling be* 
fore the wind at a tremendous rate, was a perfect hurricane 
of fire. By some means the Boers on the other side had set 
light to the thick dry grass and bushes, and to his horror Mn 
Rogers saw that unless he could get back to where he had left 
his horse and gallop off, he would be overtaken by the flames. 

What was worse, he found that the fiery tempest might over* 
take his sons unawares, for the probabilities were that the horses 
would not stand. 

Signing to the Zulu to run to the horse, he set off himself, with 
the air becoming thick and murky with smoke, so that he feared 
that he had lost his way. But, to his intense delight, upon turn- 
ing the comer of a clump of bushes there stood the faithful bay 
where he had left it, and with the Zulu at its head holding the 
reins. 

Mr. Rogers leaped into the saddle, the General caught 
hold of the mane, and away they went at a rapid trot in the 
direction in which the boys were believed to be. But the fire 
gained upon them so fast that the rider insisted upon the Zulu 
mounting behind him, in spite of his remonstrances. 

** Quick 1 ** he cried angrily. 

On this the General leaped up behind, and they went at full 
gallop, tearing over the ground, the bay straining its sinews to 
the utmost, while, as he saw the fire gaining upon him fast, Mr. 
Rogers' heart sank within him, for he could see no sign of either 
Dick or Jack, and y6t he was obliged to dash on, for the fire 
was wrapping round from his left as if to cut him off. 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 




A RACK FOK DSAR UFI. 

" Where are the boys f " h« groaned as he reached the top of 
ft small eminence and drew rein to look around. 



THE BA Y RUNS HIS LAST RACE. 315 

'* There ! " cried the Zulu, pointing. 

To his great relief Mr. Rogers saw the boys galloping towards 
him, evidently coming to his aid. 

Waving his hand to them to go back, he galloped down, and 
before long had overtaken them, and they rode on side by side, 
each with a Zulu behind his saddle, for the fire seemed to come 
on now with lightning speed. 

"The waggon stands just in the way of the fire, boys," 
groaned Mr. Rogers, '' and we shall never save it unless the 
oxen are already inspanned* 

It seemed to be only too true, and they urged on the horses 
to their fullest speed. 

It was a race for life, and they could hear the flames roaring 
hungrily behind them as they tore along, the horses needing 
neither whip nor spur to send them at their best pace over the 
crackling grass. 

" Hurrah ! " cried Jack. ** I see the waggon." 

" And the oxen ?" cried Mr. Rogers. 

" Yes, father — inspanned. And they are flying from the fire ! " 

Mr. Rogers uttered a prayer of thankfulness as he rode on, 
till at the end of a quarter of an hour they were close up with 
the waggon, while the oxen, with Dirk the foreloper at the head 
and Peter on the box, were going along in a clumsy gallop, 
urged by the shouts of their drivers and their natural dread of 
the fire, coming after them with the fury of a whirlwind. 

The smoke was now blinding, the heat increasing, and it was 
hard work to check the horses, who strove to gallop madly away 
as soon as they were lightened of half their loads ; for Coffee 
and Chicory followed the example of their father in leaping 
down and running to the side of the team to help urge on the 
frightened oxen, till they plunged along in their clumsy race. 

Faster and ^Eister in the wild race for life ! the flames roarii^ 
as they came nearer I the waggon thundering over the ground, 
swaying firom side to side, and threatening each moment to over- 
turn] 




:3r6 OFF TO THF WILDS. 

Twice it ran upon two wheels for some distance, and the boys 
knew that if a stone of any size was met the waggon must be 
irretrievably wrecked, and they saw in anticipation the flames 
overtaking it, scorching up the valuables it contained, and end- 
ing by reaching the anmiunition, when everything must be blown 
to atoms. 

Mr. Rogers felt that the case was hopeless* The flames were 
close upon them, and he was about to shout to the people to 
cut loose the oxen and leave the waggon to its fate, when he 
saw Dick spring forward to the side of the Zulu, who was with 
Dirk the foreloper, by the leading oxen. 

Mr. Rogers could not hear what his son said in the deafen- 
ing roar, but he saw him point, and the foreloper and the Gene« 
ral urged the leading oxen out of the course they were taking 
before the flames to one nearly at right angles, turning them so 
sharply that the waggon again nearly overset. It rose upon 
two wheels, but sank back on the others with a crash ; the oxen 
lumbered along in their awkward gallop, and the whole busi- 
ness seemed madness. 

Five minutes later, though, the leader saw that his son*s act 
had been guided by sound reasoning, for he had directed the 
team into- a broad open space where there was nothing to feed 
the flames. The consequence was that as the wall of Are 
reached the edge of the opening it gradually flickered out there, 
but rushed along on either side in two volumes of flame, which 
joined hands, as it were, below them, and the Are went roaring 
along as swiftly as before. 

Where they were grouped, in the midst of the open space, 
they felt the scorching, were blinded by the smoke, and had a 
hard matter to keep the beasts quiet, the leopard howling dis- 
mally, and the giraflie thrusting its head beneath the back of 
the waggon tilt, while the horses snorted and plunged, and the 
oxen shook their heads, elevated their tails, and behaved un- 
pleasantly to each other with their horns. 

But the danger was past, and at the end of an hour they 



THE BA Y RUNS HIS LAST RACE. 317 

were able to trek on over the blackened plain, till they reached 
the first pool, where, unpromising as everything was, they were 
glad to outspan and rest for a few hours before once more 
resuming their journey. 

But there was no renewal of the journey for the bay. Poor 
beast, it had used up its remaining strength in that last gallop, 
and when the time had come for the renewal of the journey the 
bay was lying down. 

Mr. Rogers spoke to it, and the poor animal made an effort 
to rise, but merely laid its head quietly down again, uttering a 
low sigh — and the faithful beast was dead. 



318 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLVII. 



HOW DINNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND, 



'* I SHALL be glad to get back home, boys,*' said Mr. Rogers the 
next morning, " for the pleasure seems to have gone out of the 
trip now my horses are all gone. Still there is one good thing, 
boys, yours are safe.** 

This was as they were at last getting out of the course of the 
fire and on to a tract of grass, so little scorched by the sun and 
so fertilized by the stream that ran through that the oxen were 
outspanned for a good feed, as it was doubtful when they might 
obtain another. 

Then followed days and weeks of trekking before they 
reached the part of the country where the caverns were, and out- 
spanned one night at Wonderfontein, where, for a promise of 
payment, the son of a Boer living hard by undertook to pro- 
vide lights and to show them the wonders of the underground 
region. 

The Boer lad said that they would require a light-bearer 
besides himself, so Dinny was told to come, and after a little 
opposition he followed his master and their guide to the extent 
of about a mile, when the lad began to creep and slide down a 
well-wooded place in the plain that looked like the crater of an 
old volcano. 

Here Dinny began to hesitate again. 

•* An' is it go down there, sor ? *' he asked. *• Shure and sup- 
pose the place has no bottom to it at all." 

Go on, Dinny, and don't be stupid," cried Dick ; and poor 



M 



HOW DINNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND. 319 




THRODOH THE GKEAT Km. 



Dinny found himself pretty well bustled down to the bottom of 
the funnel-like pkce, which seemed to bend round at tbe bottom 
and to lead into a little brook. 



320 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Here the guide lit a couple of roughly-made torches : he 
handed one to Dinny and retained the other, advising all the 
party to tuck up their trousers ; and the reason for this was soon 
evident, for the floor of the grotto they were about to explore 
formed the bed of the transparent little river that had found its 
way into this strange crack in the rock, and gradually enlarged 
it to give itself more room. 

•* Ah, bedad, and the wathei's cowld," cried Dinny. ** Shuret 
Masther Dick, we're nivcr going on along there ? *' 

" Indeed we are, Dinny, with you to light us, like the brave 
man you are," said Dick. 

Then Dinny growled out something about its being a shame 
to make such a naygur of a white man, and seeing no alterna- 
tive, went on behind the guide, being followed by Mr. Rogers, 
the boys bringing up the rear. 

The first part of their journey was for some distance through 
narrow passages, where they often had to bend double, with 
only an opportunity now and then for straightening themselves 
upright ; but by degrees, as they went on splash, splash, through 
the water, the roof rose higher and higher, till its summit seemed 
to be lost in gloom, while the grey walls looked wild and roman* 
tic in the extreme. 

A glance to right and left of Ae narrow way showed that 
in some great convulsion of nature, the rock had been split and 
separated to a small extent, and the reysult was the formation of 
this cavern ; for so similar were the sides that had the natural 
action been reversed, the two sides would have fitted together, 
save where the water had worn the rock away. 

It was a weird journey, made the more mysterious by the 
guide, who pointed out side passages where the water grew 
deeper, which passages, he said, had never been explored ; and 
at last, after they had been travelling slowly along the solemn 
echoing place, Dinny appealed to his master to go back. 

" Shure Tm not a bit freckened," he said ; ** but, sor, there's 
danger to us all if we go on there.** 



NOPy DINNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND, 321 

** Absurd, Dinny," cried his master. ** Go on. W hat is there 
to be afraid of? " 

'* Oh, nothing at all, son It isn't that I mind, but we shall 
be coming upon some great big water-baste or a wather-shnake 
or something, and then whatll we do at all ? " 

^ Let it eat us, Dinny/' shouted Dick ; and his voice sounded 
echoing and strange. 

" Oh, an' is it ate us, M asther Dick ? Shure yell have — mur- 
ther ! murther I murther ! " shrieked Dinny. " I towld ye so. 
Oh! Help, here! Help!" 

Down went Dinny's torch into the water, to be extinguished 
upon the instant, and the scared fellow kept on yelling with 
all his might. 

** What is the matter ? *• cried his master angrily. 

** Shure I towld ye so. A great big thing, wid awful black 
wings, flew at me and bit at me face, sor, and I belave he'd 
ha' killed me if I hadn't put me light out so as he shouldn't 
see where I was." 

" Oh, Dinny, Dinny. If I were you I wouldn't be frightened 
of a bat," cried Dick. 

** An' is it freckened of a bat I'd be, Masther Dick ? I tell 
ye it was a great big thing as large as a man, wid long black 
wings, an' it sent a shudder all through me, sor, to see the 
great baste come at me." 

•* Which did you see, Dinny, the bat or the shadow?" 
asked Dick. 

** Ah, ye're laughing at me,'' said Dinny ; " but wait a bit 
and yell see." 

Dinny 's torch was fished out of the water, and after a good 
deal of beating and shaking to get rid of the moisture they 
managed to get it to bum once more, when Jack volunteered 
to carry it, and Dinny grumblingly took his place in the rear. 

** Ah," he muttered, in Dick's hearing, " it's a dirthy counthry 
this Afrikky. Wild bastes, and shnakes, and holes under the 
airth. Faix, it isn't fit for a dacent boy to live in at all. " 

Y 



323 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

Dinny and his mutterings were little heeded, and they went 
on and on through the interminable place, following its windings 
and zigzag turns, where the rock had split, till they were tired, 
and Dick said that they had seen no more during the last hour 
than during the first five minutes, for the place was almost all 
alike — one great jagged rift with the little stream flowing over 
the floor. Now the roof looked far above them in the gloom, and 
now again it was close enough to crush their heads, while by the 
same rule there were times when they could touch the walls 
on either side by stretching out their hands, while at others 
the sides receded so that the space was quite a chamber. 

"Well, then,*' said Mr. Rogers, "suppose we turn back. 
Dinny, as you are last now you'll be first going back, and ought 
to make a good leader ; so take the light." 

Dinny did not reply. 

" Do you hear what my father said, Dinny?" cried Dick. 

Still there was no answer. 

** Why, father," cried Dick ; " he is not here ! " 

" Nonsense ! absurd ! " cried Mr. Rogers. " Here, Din — ny ! " 
he shouted. 

" Ny — ny — ny — ny ! " came softly repeated like a mockery of 
his cry. 

" Dinny I" cried Mr. Rogers again ; and once again the echo 
was the only answer. 

** Dinny ! * shouted Dick and Jack together, with all their 
might ; but the echo was the only response ; and a cold chill 
of horror began to run through the little party as they stood 
there. 

" Poor fellow ! " exclaimed Mr. Rogers; "surely he has not 
sunk down fainting from fright. Oh, surely not ; the idea is 
too horrible ! Dinny 1 * 

He shouted with all his might, and the boys took up the cry, 
but there was nothing but the echo to reply. 

" Has anybody ever been lost here ? *' said Mr. Rogers, turn- 
ing sharply on the Boer guide. 



NO IV DIRNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND. 323 

Dot one dat I know/' said the Boer lad. ^ Dere was leedle 
mans lost one days, bud dey found der leedle mans again fasd 
ashleep on der rock." 

* He has grown tired, boys ; quick ! " said Mr. Rogers 
'* Let's make haste back, and we shall find him sitting down 
somewhere." 

Though he said this, he did not feel at all hopeful ; but still 
there was the chance of finding that Dinny, taking advantage 
of being behind, had climbed on to one of the big shelves of 
rock to await their return, though Mr. Rogers felt that it was 
very doubtful, and that the poor fellow would be too great a 
coward to sit there alone in the dark. 

It was then with sinking hearts, and a horrible sense of find- 
ing that their expedition had a terrible ending, that they hur- 
ried along the dark passages of the weird grotto, pausing every 
now and then to shout, as they searched the side-turnings 
with their light, and shouted down them in case the poor 
fellow had strayed away by mistake, though the chances 
were very small, for it seemed impossible that Dinny could 
have followed any route but the one indicated by the light in 
front. 

No, think of the matter how they would, there seemed no 
other explanation of Dinny 's disappearance than that he had 
sunk down in the water where it was deeper than usual, and 
been drowned from sheer fright. 

"It seems so shocking," said Dick, in a whisper, that, low 
as it was, seemed to run on before them ; " that after going 
through all that journey, and escaping from lions and croco- 
diles, and all sorts of dangerous beasts, we should lose one of 
our party in such a miserable way." 

Dick had unconsciously spoken his father's thoughts as they 
went on redoubling their exertions till, to their horror, they 
reached the bottom of the funnel-shaped entrance without find- 
ing a vestige of him they sought 

'* Back again ! " cried Mr. Rogers ; and returning, they again 

y 2 



334 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

searched the gloomy passages for hours, till they were obliged 
to return to the mouth of the cavern for fresh lights. 

The Boer lad looked boirified, and he anxiously ran off for 
fresh torches, feeliag himself to blame as guide, for having lost 
one of the party. 

"Jack," said Mr. Rogers hoarsely, "run to the waggon, and 
fetch some biscuits, a little brandy, and the two large lamps, 
with a few extra candles. Be quick 1 " 

" I'll go too, father," cried Dick eagerly. And the boys were 
about to start, when Dick added, "Shall I bring over the 
General, father?" 

" Yes, and his boys. We must find Dinny." 

Dick and Jack, veary and wet as they were, ran off to the 
little camp, the smoke of whose fire they could see, and on 
reaching it, panting and exhausted, the first object they saw was 
Dinny, lying under a tree with his mouth open, fast asleep. 

" Oh, I am glad," cried Jack. 

"So am I," cried Dick; and sorry — and cross," he added, 
running up to Dinny, and giving him a kick in the ribs. 

"Aisy there," said Dinny, yawning and opening his eyes. 
" Shure, I'm coming. Ah, Masther Dick, and have ye got back 
out oftheblackhole?" 

"How came you here?" cried Dick angrily. 

" How kim I here, Masther Dick ? Shure it was on me own 
handsome pair o'legs," 

" But we thought you were lost." 

" Lost ! bedad, not I. Shure, I ser, they're going to carry the 
light themselves, an' they don't want me anny longer ; so I just 
sat down on a big shEone, while I took out me matchbox, and 
lit me morsel of candle I had in me pocket, and I kim back, 
and afther getting me dinner ready, I lud down for a 

" Oh I " cried Dick wrathfiilly. 

He could say no more ; but his brother spoke for him in a 
way that made Dinny uncomfortable, as the boys turned sharply 



HOW DINNY WAS LOST UNDERGROUND. 3^5 



njust as the 



and ran back, reaching the mouth of the < 
Boer lad cune up with his torches. 

Mr. Rogers started up. 

" Where are the lanterns f " he cried. Then, seeing that the 
boys had something to say he eagerly listened ; and the next 
moment, with his brow knotted with anger, he strode off to the 
waggon. 

"Jack,"" whispered Dick, "I never saw fethertook so cross 
as that." 

He was angry indeed, and tbey saw him seiie Dinny by the 
throat, force him upon his knees, and raise his clenched fist to 
strike ; but the next moment education and manUness pre- 
vailed, his hand dropped to his side, ^nd he stood there talking 
to Dinny for some time in a way that made that gentleman 
slink away and go about his work with a very hang-dog ex- 
pression of countenance. 



OFF TO THE WILDS. 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 

THE LAST ADVEKTURE, 



Days of slow, steady trekking homeward, and then, to the con- 
sternation of all, they learned from a Boer, fleeing with his 
wa^on and belongings to another part of the country, that it 
would not be safe to go farther, for a war had broken out 
between a powerful Zulu tribe and the Amaswaiis, both sides 
taking advantage of the disturbed state of the country to rob 
and plunder in every way they could. 

" Dey dake away all dose caddies,'' said the Boer, " and kill 
you all. 1 go away." 

He went away, and the General was called into consulta- 

" What shall we do ? " said Mr. Rogers, who, without fearing 
for their lives, had a horror of losing the fruhs of their long 
journey into the interior. 

" Go straight on home like brave men," said the Zulu, stur- 
dily. " The boss may not see enemies in the way. If he does, 
we shall see the boss, who can fight lions, will not be afraid 
of men. Man sees boss not afraid, he will not fight." 

" I shall take your advice. General," said Mr. Rogers ; and 
to the horror of Dinny, who from that moment began to con- 
trive a hiding-place in the biggest chest, the order was given, 
" Forward ! " 

They came upon danger sooner than they expected, for, 
steadily trekking on, they had halted for the day in an open plain, 
when, to Mr. Rogers' horror, he found that he had inadver- 



THE LAST ADVENTURE. 327 

tently halted in what was about to be the battle-ground of the 
contending tribes. 

It WAS almost like magic. One hour the valley was empty, 
the next it was swannitig with contending men. 

Escape was impiossible, and in a vor short time the waggon 
was put in as good a state of defence as could be, and they were 
surrounded by the enemy ; but before hostilities between them 
could commence, the Zulu tribe came swanning down &om 
the hills behind them, advancing with a regular dancing tramp, 
forming themselves into a crescent, and dashing on to the 
attack. 

The Amaswazis who had first surrounded the waggon were 
largely aimed with rifles ; but in spite of the superiority this 
gave them, they gave way before the detennination of the asse- 
gai-armed Zulu warriors, who came trooping by the waggon, the 
greater portion of them thorough counterparts of the General, 
till some fifty remained about the w^gon in company with 
three lierce-looking chiefs. 

"What are we to do, General?" s^d Dick stoutly, as he. 
stood there with his rifle — " fight ? * 

'' Wait and see," said the General calmly ; and followed by 
Coffee and Chicory, he walked out from the waggon to meet the 
Zulu chiefs. 

A short conference ensued, and then the three chiefs came 
back with the General, to hold out their hands to Mr. Rogers 
and his sons. 

"They say I am to tell you that they thank you in the 
name of our people for making us your brothers in the hunt," 
said the General quietly, "and that they will all fight for 
you and see you safe." 

Then, in obedience to the General's directions, the oxen 
were inspanned, ready to go forward if necessary, or to retreat 
with the Zulu tribe should it be beaten. 

This latter misfortune, however, did not occur, for before a 
quarter of an hour had elapsed the Amaswazis tribe was being 




338 OFF TO THE WILDS. 




BETWEEN TWO FIKSS: 



chased by the Zulus, and seeking safety in flight; while after 
making presents to the chieft, to the General's great pride and 



THE LAST ADVENTURE. 329 

gratification in spite of his calm demeanour, they parted with 
mutual feelings of goodwill 

" Saved from wreck," said Dick, who had made the principal 
chief happy, by taking off his belt with the stout, keen hunting 
knife and sheath, and himself buckling it on, the others receiving 
similar gifts from Mr. Rogers, and Jack. 

Three weeks' long journey was yet before them, during which 
the oxen suffered much from the prevailing draught, but there 
was little of adventure upon the rest of their road ; and it was 
with no little relief that the familiar landmarks in the neigh- 
bourhood of their home were at last made out, the oxen trekking 
well during the last few miles, as if they scented plenty of water 
and fresh green pasture at the fann. 

The full moon was shining brightly as the wa^on trekked up 
to the house, several friends having ridden out to welcome them, 
as soon as it was known that the hunters were in sight; and then 
once more, as soon as the dumb creatures were seen to, they 
sat down at a table to an old fashioned English meat tea with 
their friends, glad to be able to recount that they had returned 
without a single loss, save that of the horses from the dreaded 
tselie, while the prime object of their journey had been attained 
— Dick sat amongst them completely restored, and glowing 
with vigorous health. 

" I should think, boys, you will be glad to sleep once more 
in a soft bed," said Mr. Rogers, smiling; but before either 
Dick or Jack could answer, Dinny presented himself at the 

door. 

" Av ye plaie, sor— " 

"Well, Dinny?" 

" I'd thank ye to come and shpake to the naygurs. We've 
put up a bed and blankets for them in the best bam, and ibey 
won't go there, but are making up a camp again, wid a fire, under 
the waggon," 

" Well, Dinny, if it pleases them, let them alone," »id Mr. 
Rogers quietly. 



330 OFF TO THE WILDS. 

" Shure, sor, I don't mind,'' said Dinny; "but it's the nay- 
bours, sor, and what they'll think." 

" Never mind what the neighbours think," said his master. 
" Dick, go and see that the General and his boys have every- 
thing they want." 

" Av ye plaze, sor," said Dinny, "I want to ax }-e a favour." 

"What is it, Dinny?" 

** Sbure, sor, we've had a long journey, and I'm moighty 

" Then go to bed and have a good sleep." 

"That's just what I'm axing of yere honour. I want a boli- 

" What for, Dinny f " 

" To go to shiape for a week.'' 

Dinny had as much sleep as be liked, but he contented him- 
self with twenty-four hours, and then helped to unpack the 
treasures from the waggon, the store of feathers, skins, and 
curiosities far more than paying the cost of tbe expedition, even 
counting the loss of the horses. The boys' pets too, the 
leopard and giraffe, had to be sold, for they could not keep 
them J but they fetched handsome sums for exportation to 

At last there was nothing to do but to recompense the 
Genera] and his sons; not that they were going away, for they 
preferred staying about the farm. 

Mr. Rogers took his sons into his confidence, and the result 
was the presentation to the three Zulus of gifts which they 
esteemed most highly of anything they could receive, and these 
were the three double rifles of the father and sons, whose 
accuracy the Zulus had so of^en seen proved. 

Dick was right when he said the present was better than 
diamonds, for the stem old warrior's face lit up with joy, and 
when Coffee and Chicory could be made to understand that 
they were to have the rifles to keep, their excitement was some- 
thing wonderful to see. 



THE LAST ADVENTURE. 



331 



" Shure an the master must be aff his head to give them boye 
such things^" grumbled Dinny to Peter and Dirk, who were 
quite content with the presents they had received in clothes 
additional to their pay. 

Right or wrong, he gave great satisfaction on all sides; and, 
health being restored, and the sorrows of the past some- 
what assuaged, the regular duties of civilized life were resumed, 
and many a long evening was spent in arranging the various 
natural history objects brought home. Now and then, so 
pleasant were the recollections of the exciting trip, the boys 
have brought the blood flushing into the dusky cheeks ot Coffee 
and Chicory, and a flash into their father's eyes, on saying that 
they wonder whether their father will ever organize another such 
trip, while Dinny has been heard to say spitefully that they may 
drive in that waggon to Novy Sembley, New Zealand, or the big 
islands of the say, he don't care a sthraw, so long as they^ only 
lave him at home. 




A Catal^ite of Avteriean and Fort^ Books Puhtuktd or 

Imported ty Messrs. Sahfson Low & Co. can 

it had on applkation. 

Crown ButUingt, iSS, PUaSlrtet, LtnAm, 
ynHuary, i88t. 

7i S^tltttion from tgt %i^ of Sooltsc 

FU BUSHED BT 

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON. 

ALPHABETICAL LIST. 

/I CLASSIFIED Edumtionat Catalogue of Works pub- 
¦" lished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, doth extra. Second Edition, 

revised and convctcd to Christmas 1S79, ^s 
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A Day 

of my Ijfe." Cloth limp, square l6mo, 2J. &/. 
Adventures of Captain Mage. A Fhcenician's Explorations 

1000 yeiTs B.C. By Leon Cauun. Numerous Itlostratioiis. Crown 

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, ^I. bd. ; plainer binding, 51. 

Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with 

117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by PARKER 
GlLLMORE. Post 8vo, doth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, ^t. ftd. 

Afghan Knife (The). A Novel, By Robert Armitagb 

Sterndalb. Author of "Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6r. 
Afitr Sundown ; or. The Palette and the Fen. By W. W. Fenn, 

Author of "BliDd-Man'i Holiday," &c With Portrut of Author. 

3 vols., crown 8vo, doth extra, 24J. 
Albania : A Narrative of Recent Travel. By E. F. Knight, 

With some very good lUustratioos specially made for the work. 

Crown Svo, doth extra, isi. 6d. 
Alcott {Louisa M.) Jimmy s Cruise in the " Pinafore}' With 9 

Illottrationi. Second Edition. Small post 8*0, cloth gilt, 3/. bd. 
— - Aunt Jds Scrap-Bag. Square i6mo, zs. td, 

(Rou library, ».) 
Little Men : Life at Plumfieli with Jo's Bays. Small 

post 8*0, cloth, gilt edget, 31^ &/. (Rose Library, Double roL at.) 
-¦ LUtle Women, i vol, doth, gilt edges, y. 6d. (Ross 

Jjbniy, a toIi., if, esdi.} 



Sampson Law, Marsion, &^ Co,s 



Alcott {Louisa M.) Old^Fashwned Girl. Best Edition, small 
post 8vo, cloth extia, gilt edg^s, y. 6d, (Rose Library, 2s.) 

— — Work and Spinning Again. A Story of Experience. 
I voL, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6x. Several Illustratiozis. (Rose 
Library, 2 vols., is, each.) 

¦¦ Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 3x. 6d. 

Eight Cousins; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post Syo^ 



with Illustrations, 3^. id. 

The Rose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 



3J. 6</. 



Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, doth extra, 3 j. 6^ 
Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, doth extra, 5X. 
yack and yill. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 51. 

Miss Alcott's stones are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour ... 
eedingly entertaining .... We can recommend the 'Eight Cousins."'^ 



excee' 



Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or. Rock and Snow Sketches. 
By H. SCHUTZ Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With lUustratioiis by 
Whympkr and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, lor. 6d, 2nd Editioo. 

Andersen {Hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With lUustrations in 
Colours by £. V. B. Royal 4to, doth, 251. 

Architecture ( The Twenty Styles of) . By Dr. W. Wood, Author 
of " The Hundred Greatest Men.'' Imperial 8vo, with 52 Plates. 

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books." 

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, RA,, ES.A., &*r. 
Edited by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the 
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in West* 
minster Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on 
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A. i voL, 
demy 8vo, doth extra, i&r. 



THE BAYARD SERIES, 

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell. 
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as 
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad. 

"We cam hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder 
over. —TttHftt 

PrUt 31. &/. taeh y^lumt, tempUU in itself , JUxiUs cloth extra, gUt edges^ 
with rilh Headbandt a$td Regitttn. 



The Story of the ChevaUer Bayard. 

By M. De Berville. 
De Joinville*8 St. Louis, King of 

France. 



The Essays of Abraham Cowley, in- 
cluding all his Prose W^orks. 

AbdaUah; or. The Four 
By Edouard Laboollaye. 



List of Publuations. 



The Bayard Series {continued) :- 

Table-Talk aad Opinions of Na- 
poleon Bnonaparte. 

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. 
By William Beckford. 

The King and the Commons. A 
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan 
Songs. Edited by Professor 
Motley. 

Words of Wellington : Maxims and 
Opinions of the Great Duke. 

Dr. Johnson's Rasselas, Prince of 
Abyssinia. With Notes. 

HazUtt's Round Table. With Bio- 
graphical Introduction. 

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, 
and the Letter to a Friend. By 
Sir Thomas Browne, Knt 

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By 
Robert Buchanan. 

Coleridge's Christabel, and other 

A Cau conUuning la Vobmut, frk$ yu. 



Imagbutthe Poems. WhbPie&oe 
by Algemon C. Swinburne. 

Lord Qiesterfiekfs Letters, Sen- 
tences, and Maxims. With In- 
troduction by the Editor, and 
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de 
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Aca- 
demy. 

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. BaUan- 
tyne. 

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his 
Friends. Edited by P. Fits- 
gerald. 

Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and 
Maxims of the Duke de la Roche- 
foucald. 

Socrates; Memoirs for English 
Readers from Xenophon's Memo- 
rabilia. By Edw. Lerien. 

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts. 



Beauty and the Beast An (Md Tale retold, with Pictures by 

E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours, izr. dd, 

BegunCs Fortune {The): A New Story, By Jules Verne. 
Translated bv W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, Js, 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 51. 

Ben Hur: A Tale of the Christ. By L. Wallace. Crown 

8vo, 6s, 
Beumers^ German Copybooks. In six gradations at 4//. each. 

Biart {Lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist," 
" My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involun- 
tary Voyage." 

Bickersteth^s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer 
may be had in various styles and bindings trom \d, to 2IJ. Prict 
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application. 

Bickerstdh {Rev, E, H,, M,A,) The Reef and other Parables. 
I vol, square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2/. dd. 

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, is. 

¦ The Master^ 5 Home-Call; or, Brief Memorials of 

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is. 

The Master^ s Will. A Funeral Sermon preached 



on the Death of Mrs. S. Gumey Buxton. Sewn, dd, ; cloth gilt, I/. 

A 2 



Sampson Low^ Marston, &* Co*s 



Bickersteth (Rev. E. H.^ M.A.) The Shadow of the Rock. A 

Selection of Religious Poetry. iSino, cloth extra, 2/. 6</. 

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7th 

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^. 

Biographies of the Great Artists {Illustrated). Each of the 
following Volumes is illustrated with from twelve to twenty foil-page 
Engravings, printed in the best manner, and bound in ornamental 
clom cover, y, 6d. Library Edition, bound in a superior style, 
and handsomely ornamented, with gilt top ; six Volumes, enclosed 
in a cloth case, with lid, ^i lis. 6d. each case. 



Eogarth. 

Tomer. 

Buben*. 

Holbein. 

Tintoretto. 

Little Masters 



of 



Fra Bartolommeo. 
Oiotto. 
Baphael. 

Van Dyck and Hals. 
Titian. 
Bembrandt. 
Leonardo da Vinci. 

and 



Sir David Wilkie. 

Van Byck. 

Fiffore Painters of 

Holland. 
Michel Anffelo. 
Delaroohe and Vemet. 
Landseer. 
Beynolds. 



and 
reat 



Germany. 
Bra Anffelioo and Oainsborouffh 
Masaccio. Constable. 

" Few things in the way of small books upon great subjects, avowedly cheap 
necessarily bnef, have been hitherto so well done as these biographies of the G 
Masters in painting. "^TViK^f. 

" A deserving series." — Edinhurgh Review. 

'* Most thoroughly and tastefully edited."— 5>«ic/a/<w. 

Black ( Wm. ) Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 65. 

Lady Silverdal^s Sweetheart, and other Stories* i vol., 

small post 8vo, dr. 
— ^— KHmeny : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, 6s. 

In Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s. 

A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post 8vo, 6s. 

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, is. each. 

Blackmore {R. L>.) Loma Doone, loth Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s. 

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, 6x. 

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, 6s. 

Cradock Nowell. New Edition, 6s. 

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s. 

Mary Anerley. New Edition, 6s. 

Erema ; or, My Father^ s Sin. With 12 Illustrations, 

small post 8vo, 6s. 

Blossoms from the Kin^s Garden : Sermons for Children. By 
the Rev. C. Bosanquet. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, dr. 

Bltu Banner {The); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a 
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol 
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With 
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial i6mo, cloth, gil( edges^ 
*js. 6d, ; plainer binding, 51. 



lAst of PUblicaiwm. 



Bays Froissart ( The), js. 6d. Su " Froissart " 

Boys King Arthur {The). With very fine Illustratioas. 

Square crown 8vo, doth extra, ^t edges, 71. 6d, Edited by Sidney 

Lanier, Editor of "The BoVs Froissart." 
Brazil: the Amazons^ and the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith. 

With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 650 pp., 211. 

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P. 
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, 8vo, 21s. 

Breton Folk: An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry 
Blackburn, Author of " Artists and Arabs," " Normandy Pictu- 
resque," &c With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott. 
Imperial 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s. 

Bricks without Straw. By the Author of " A Fool's Errand." 

Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 7^. 6d. 

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-Lore^ Fairy Mythology , Legends^ 
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykes, United States Consul for Wales. 
With Illustrations by J. H. Thomas. This account of the Faiijr 
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedi- 
cated to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. 8vo, its. 

Buckle {Henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of. By Alfred 
Henry Huth. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy 8vo. 

Bumaby {Capt.) See " On Horseback." 

Bumhatn Beeches {Heathy F. G.). With numerous Illustrations 

and a Map. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 3.r. 6d. Second Edition. 

Butler ( W. F) The Great Lone Land; an Account of the Red 
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. FifUi and 
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. td. 1 

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter Journey 

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy 8vo, cloth, wiUi 
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, i8r. Cr. 8vo, is. dd. 

Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth, 



2nd Edition, i6r. Also, in crown Svo, 71. td. 

CADOGAN {Lady A) Illustrated Games of Patience. 
Twenty>four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap 
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, 12s. 6d, 

Caldecott {R). See '* Breton FolL" 

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. See Verne. 

Changed Cross (The), and other Religious Poems. i6mo, 2s. 6d, 

Child of the Cavern {The) ; or, Strange Doings Underground. 
By Jules Veeke. Translated bv W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous 
Illustrations. Sq. or. 8vo, gilt edges, ^s. 6i/. ; cL, plain edges, 5/. 



Sampson Low^ MarsUm^ 6* C^is 



Chad's Play, with i6 Coloured Dcawings bjr £. Y. R 

QO tluck paper, with tints, ^s. 6d. 

New. ByKV. B. Similar to the above. .SivNi 
A New and Cheap Edition of the two abowe^ con- 



tamiiig 48 ninstntloaf by E. V. B., printed ia tint, 
bonnd, 3r. 6d, 

Childrerfs Lives and How to Preserve TTkem ; or^ The Nrnrsay 
Handbook. By W. LoMAS, M.D. Crown 8w^ cIoUh $«» 

Choke Editions of Choke Books. 2s. 6d. each, Dlostiated bjr 
C. W. CoPB, R.A., T. CasswicK, R.A., £. Duncan, Bulkkt 
Foster, J. C Horslby, A.ILA., G. Hicks, R. Rkdgraiti; R.A., 
C. Stonehouse, F. Tatler, G. Thoicas, H. J. TowMSSMim, 
K H. Wehnert, Harrison Weir, &c 



Milton's L'Alkgro. 

Poetry of Nature. Hamsoa Weiiw 

Rogers' (Sam. ) Pleasores of Memory. 

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets. 

Tennyson's May Qoeen. 

Elizabethan Poets. 

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems. 



Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy. 
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope. 
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner. 
Goldsmith's Deserted VUla£:e. 
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakeneld. 
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard. 
Keat's Eve of St. Agnes. 

" Such works are a glorioiis beadficadoD for a poet."—. 

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Schaff. A New Edition, 

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, dr. 
Cobbett (William). A Biography. By £dward Smith. » 

vols., crown 8vo, 25/. 

Confessions of a Frivolous Girl (The) : A Novel of Fashianabh 
Life. Edited by Robert Grant. Crown 8vo, 6r. 

Cradle-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or. Nothing New under the 
Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barristerat-law, and late Advocate, 
High Courts, Bombay. 8vo, pp. 420, doth, 141. 

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6f. See Blackmore. 
Cruise of HM.S. *' Challenger'' ( The). By W. J. J. Spry, R.N. 

With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demySvo^ doth, 
iSx. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, *js. 6dl 

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest 
Cand^.ze. Translated by N. D'Anvers. Wiih numerous fine 
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt, *js. 6d.; plain binding and edges, 5x. 

ryiNA (R. H.) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-Four' 

•^-^ years After. Revised. Edition, with Notes, i2mo, 6x. 

Daughter (A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, df. 

Day of My Life (A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at JSton, 

By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." 161110^ dotli 

extra, 2s. 6d, 6th Thousand* 



List of Publicatums. 



Diane. By Mrs. Macquoio. Crown 8vOy 6x. 

Dick Cheveley : Jkis Fartums and Misfortunes, By W. H. G. 
Kingston. 350 pp.y iquart i6mo, and 23 full-page lUtistrations. 
Cloth, gilt edgiesi 7^. 6d. ; plainer binding plain edges, ^r. 

Dick SandSf tke Boy Captain. By Tules Vernb. With 
nearly 100 niustrationay doth, gilt, loj; 6a. 1 plain binding and plain 
edges, 5x. 

Dictionary {Getteral) of Archaology and Antiquities. From 
the French of £. Bosc Crown 8vo, with nearly 200 Illustrations, 
lOf. dd. 

Dodge (Mrs. M.) Hans Brinker; or^ the Silver Skates. An 

entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts. 
Square crown 8to, doth extra, 5/. ; Text only, paper, is. 

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-Book in Black and White. 
Containing 6Drawing8 by Walter J. Allen. Folio^ in wrapper, 6x. &/. 

P'IGHT Cousins. See Alcott. 

Eighteenth Century Studies. Essays by F. Hitchbian. 

Demy 8vo, 18/. 

Elementary Education in Saxony. By J. "L, Bashford, M.A., 
Trin. Coll., Camb. For Masters and Mistresses of Elementaiy 
Schools. Sewn, is. 

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

Embroidery {Handbook of). By L. Higgin. Edited by Lady 
Marian Alford, and published by authority of the Royal School of 
Art Needlework. Witn 16 page Illustnitions, Designs for Borders, 
&C. Crown 8vo, $s, 

English Philosophers. Edited by Iwan Muller, M.A., New 

College, Oxon. A Series of Volumes containing short biographies 
of the most celebrated English Philosophers, to each of whom is 
assigned a separate volume, giving as comprehensive and detaUed a 
statement of nis views and conti%utions to Philosophy as poinble, 
explanatory rather than critical, opening with a brier biographical 
sketch, and condudin^with a short general summary, and a biblio« 
graphical appendix. The Volumes wul be Issued at bdef intervalsy in 
square l6mo» 3^. (xbL^ containing about 200 pp. each. 

T%i following are in the press .^— 

Baoon. Professor Fowlrr, Professor of Logic in Oxford. 
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Grxen, Professor of Moral Philosophyt 

Oxford. 
WMniltmi, Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, DublifL 



J. 8. Xm. HxLKN Taylor, Editor of **The Works of Buckte^" &c. 



[Ready. 
cMe^*^ 



8 Sampson Low, Marston^ 6f* Co.*s 

English Philosophers (continued) : — 

KanseL Rev. J. H. Huckin, D.D., Head Master of Repton. 
?dam Smith. T. A. Farrer, M.A., Author of "Pzimitive 

Manners and Customs." {^Recufy. 

Eobbea. A. H. Gosset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford. 
Bentham. G. £. Buckle, M. A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford, 
?nstin. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's College^ 

Oxford. 
Hartley. ") £. S. BowEN, B.A., late Scholar of New College, 
James ICilL ) OxfoxxL \Reii3y. 

ArrangtmenU mn in progrfss/or volumes on Locks, Hums, Palxt, Rno, A^ 

Episodes of French History. Edited, with Notes, Genealogical^ 

Historical, and other Tables, by Gust AVE Masson, B.A. 

1. Charlemagne and the Carlovinffiana. 

2. Louis XI. and the Crusades. 

3. Francis I. and Charles V. v 

4. Francis I. and the Benaissanoe. 

The above Series is based upon M. Guizot's "History of France." 
Each volume is choicely Illustrated, with Maps, 2/. (xL 

Erema ; or^ My Father's Sin. See Blackmore. 

Etcher {The). Containing 36 Examples of the Original 
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others : Birket Foster, 
T. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Heseltine, Robert 
W. Macbeth, R. S, Chattock, H. R. Robertson, &c, &c. 
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. izs, 6d. 

Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School," " About Some 
Fellows." 

Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C Evans. 
One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, lor. 6</. 



A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, sx. 



Eve of Saint Agnes (The). By John Keats. Illustrated with 
Nineteen Etchings by Charles O. Murray. Folio, cloth extra, 2ij. 
An Edition de Luxe on large paper, containing proof impressions, has 
been printed, and specially bound, 3/. 31. 

"PARM Ballads. By Will Carleton. Boards, ij.; cloth, 

*¦ gilt edges, u. (id. 

Fern Paradise (The) : A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By 
F. G. Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with 
Eighteen full-pace, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of 
Ferns and Four Photographs, large post 8vo, doth, gilt edges, 12/. M 
Sixth Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn« u. each. 



List of PublicaHons. 



Fern World {The). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve 

Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of eveiy 
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature; by several full-page 
^imvings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, I2s. 6d. 

Mr. Heath has rauly given us pood, well-writtea deacripdoos of our natiye 
Ferns, with indications of ueir habitats, the conditions under which they grow 
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — Atkenmum, 

Few {A) Hints on Proving WUls, Enlarged Edition, \s. 

First Steps in Conversational French Grammar, By F. Julien. 
Being an Introduction to "Petites Le9ons de Conversation et de 
Gnunmaire," by the same Author. Fcap. 8vo, 128 pp., Ij. 

Flooding of the Sahara {77u), See Mackenzie. 

Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery, 
By £. £. ORLKBiJU Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, u. 

FooFs Errand {A). By One of the Fools. Author of Bricks 

without Straw. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 
8j. 6d. 

Footsteps of the Master, See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher). 

Forbidden Land (A) : Voyages to the Corea, By G. Oppert, 
Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 21s, 

Four Lectures on Electric Induction, Delivered at the Royal 
Institution, 1878-9. By J. K H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With 
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square i6mo, y. 

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies, Edited by F. S. 
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly 
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes 
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known 
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from 
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject 
The Volumes average 180 crown 8vo pages each, contain 2 Maps 
and Illustrations, crown 8vo, y, 6d, 

Tlu following is a List of the Volumes : — 
Denmark and Iceland. By E. C. Otte, Author of " Scandinavian 

History," &c. 
Qreece. By L. Sergeant, B.A., Knight of the Hellenic Order 

of the Saviour, Author of " New Greece." 
Switaerland. By W. A. P. Coolidge, M.A., Fellow of 

Magdalen College, Editor of The Alpine Journal. 
AostrlA. By D. Kay, F.R.G.S. 
BuMia. By W. R. Morfill, M.A., Oriel College, Oxford, 

Lecturer on the Ilchester Foundation, &c. 
Persia. By Major-Gen. Sir F. J. Goldsmid, K.C.S.L, Author of 

" Telegraph and Travel," &c. 
Japan. By S. Mossman, Author of *' New Japan," &c. 
Peru. By Clements H. Markham, M.A., C.B. 
Canada. By W, Fraser Ras, Author of "Westward by 

Rai^^ftc 



lo SampsoH Imw^ ManUm^ &^ Co!s 

Foreign Cautiiries (amtinuid) ,^^^ 

8w«d«n and Norway. By the Rer. F. H. WOODS, M. A., Fellow 

of St John's College, Oxford. 
The West Indiea. By C U. £din, F.R.G.S^ Author of " Frozen 

Asia," &c 
Vew Zealand. 
Vranoe. By Miss M. Roberts, Author of ^ The Atelier da Lys," 

"Mdlle.Mori,"&c. 
Egypt. By S. LANS PoOLB, B.A., Author of *'The Life of Edward 

Lane/' &c. 
Spain. By the Rev. Wentworth Webster, M.A., Chaplain at 

St Jean de Lux. 
Torkey-in-Aala. By J. C McCOAN, M.P. 
?natralla. By J. F. Vssey FitzgeralD) late Premier of New 

South Wales. 
Holland. By R. L. Poole. 

Franc {Maude /earn). The following form one Series, small 

post 8vo, in unifonn cloth bindings, with gilt edges: — 
¦ Emilys Choice, ^s, 

' HalVs Vineyard, 4s. 

John^s Wife: a Story of Life in South Australia. \s. 

— — Marian ; or, the Light of Some On^s Home. y. 

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters, 4^. 

Vermont Vale, 55. 

Minnies Mission. 4s. 

" Little Mercy, <^s. 

¦¦ " Beatrice Melton^ s Discipline, 41. 

Froissart (The Bey's), Selected from the Chronicles of Eng- 
land, France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume is 
fully Illustrated, and uniform with ' ' The Boy's King Arthur." Crown 
8vo, cloth, js, 6d, 

/^AMES of Patience. See Cadogan. 
Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, 10s. 6d. 
THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES. 

Price 6s, each ; or in calf extra, price lou*. 6d, ; Smaller Edition, cloth 

extra, 2s, 6d, 
A Reprint (with the exception of " FamUiar Words " and "Other 
People's Windows**) has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings 
at zr. 6d, each. 

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character 

of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition. 

" Desenres to be printed in letters of gold, md circulated ia erery hoaae."— 
CktumbenF ypurmaU 



List of PuUicatum. 1 1 



The Gentle Life Series (continued) ^ — 

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life." 

" Tt h not MS]r toopcnit at any page without tiodiag Mme handy idea."— Jfi^rii- 

Like unto Christ A New Translation of Thomas it Kempis* 

" De Imitatione ChristL ** 2nd Edition. 

'* Could not be presented in a more exquisite fbnn, ibr a more vghtly volume was 
never wttti.**—IlluttraUd London Newt, 

Familiar Words, An Index Verborum, or Quotation Hand- 
book. Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences 
that have become embedded in the English lai^guage. 4th and 
enlarged Edition. 6x. 

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with."— iV^tor and 
Qnorus, 

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author 

of "TheGenUeLife." With Portrait. 2nd Edition. 

" We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circula- 
tion for this handsome attractive h(xk.**-~IU9utratod Timet, 

The Countess of Fembroke*s Arcadia, Written by Sir Philip 

Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." ^s, 6d. 
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition."— £^jnaimmrr. 

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition. 

" There is not a single diought in the volume that does not contribute in some 
fluasure to the formation of a true gentlenuui." — Daify Nrwt, 

The Silent Hour: Essays^ Original and Selected. By the 

Author of <* The Gentle Life." 3id Edition. 
"All who posaesa 'The Gentle Life ' should own this volume."— ^/MuAwn^ 

Half-Length Portraits. Short Studies of No.table Persons. 
By J. Hain FaiswELL. 

Essays on English Writers^ for the Self-improvement of 

Students in English Literature. 

"To all who have neglected to read and atudjr tiieir native literature we would 
certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction."— fjrAMcmrr. 

Other Peoples Windows. By T. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition* 

"The chapters are ao Uvely in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of 
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that tha reader cannot Isil to be 
amused." — Mopnimg Pott, 

A Mat^s Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswelu 



German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in 

German. By M. T. Preu. 2s. 6d. 

Getting On in the World; or, Hints on Success in Life. By 
W. Mathews, LL.D. Small p<»t 8vo, doth, 2j.6<il; gilt edges, 3& 6^. 

GUpitis Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large 

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with *'The Fcm 
Vodd," \2s.^. In 6 monthly parts, 2/. each. 



Sampsm Low, Mantcn, &• Co's 



Gordon (J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induc- 
tioD," " Physical Treatise on Electiidty," &c. 

Gimffi. TTu Royal Cookery Book. By Jules GouFPi ; trans- 
lated and adapted for EnglUfa me by Alphonse Goufp£, Head 
Pubycook to her Majesty [he Qnceo. Ulnstrated with large plates 
printed in colooii. l6l Woodcuts, Svo, cloth entra, gilt edges, il. is, 
¦¦ Domestic Edition, half-bound, Jos.6J. 

"Bjttishe ibloc ud mas coapltte woili an caokcry thu hu em becD nib- 
MiucaUJ ibe cutroDDmical irorlcL" — Pall Mail GaMitij. 

Great Artists. See " Biographies," 

Gnat Historic Galleries of England {Hie'). Edited by Lord 

Ronald GowBk, F.S.A., Tnistee of the Naliomd Portrait GiUeiy. 

Illu&liated by 24 large and carefolly-eKecuted iVmawn/ Photi^raphs 

of some of tbe most celebrated Pictures by the Great Masters. Impoial 

4to, cloth eitra, gilt edges, 36/. 
Gr^t Musicians {TTu). A Series of Biographies of the Great 

Mosidaos. Edited by F Hueffek, 

I. Wacner, By the Editor. 5. BoBalal.and the Modem Italian 

3. Wober, By Sir Julius School. By H. StiTiiKKUUfi) 

Benedict. Edwards. 

3. XondBlaaolui. By Joseph 6. H*realla. Br Arkigo BotTo. 

Bennbtt. 7. PnM«U. By H. W. Cuumings. 

4, Sotaubert. ByH.F.FKOST. 

¦a* Dr. Hiller and other di*diignished miters, both English and 
Foreign, have promised contributions. Each Votame is complete in 
itscU. Small post Svo, doth extra, jr. 
Cuisofs History of Frana. Translated by Robert Black. 
Super-royal Svo, very numerous Full-pige and other lUustrMloiis. In 
8 vols., doth extra, eilt, each u^. 

" Ii Hipplici mat whicli hu looi b«D Idi, and mcbllo bg in tbg hudiof all 
¦todcnU cihttmry." — Timet, 

¦ Massorts School Edition. The 

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the 
Revolution ; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M. A., 
nith Chronologic^ Index, Historical and Genealc^cal Tables, &c. 
By Professor GUSTAVE Masson, B.A.. Assistant Master at Harrow 
SchooL With 24 full-page Portiails, and many other UlosttaUons. 
I voL, demy Svo, 600 pp., cloth extra, lOJ. 6fll 

Guizots History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each, 
containing 60 to 70 Fall-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt, 
24T. each. 

" FpT liunrr af typofnphT, plauinen of print, uhd beamy of inostradan, these 
Toluraei, af wnich but ofie ou at yet ippcared in Enf liili, wiU tnUi thor dwh 
¦faiBtt KDjr productJaDafuiHgcBakminaueaiauf owBueTeTyihiiicEjpiifr>ph)r 

GuyOK i^Mde^) Life. By Upham. 6Ui Edidon, crown Sto, 6x. 



Zitt of PuilieaHoru. 



LTANDBOOK to the CharitUi ef London. Set Low's. 

— -¦¦ of Mmbroidfry ; which ae. 

— to the Principal Schools of En^nd. See Practical 

Half-Hourt of Blind Man's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter 

Sketches in Black and While. By.W. W, Fxsw, Author of " After 

Sundown," &c. 3 voli., cr. Sto, 241. 
HalliW. W:) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Heaith Maxims, 

Ph^ical, Menu], and MoraL Bt W. W. Haul, A.M., M.D. 

Small post Svo, cloth, is. Second Edition. 
Hans Bnnker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge. 
Harper's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages, 

fullf Illustrated, u. With two Serial Novell by celebrated Author*. 
" ' Huper'i MaguiDe ' it nlhictrlrHwiiwilb cxccUcDI iUuimciant lhil|lo coont 

" ll u 10 pEclty. u bi|f, And lo diUp. . . . An wcraordiiiuT lUtUngtwuvtlk* 
tOo Urac ocUlvo puo, with over t koic of uticlei, and mon than Ihiu dm« aa 
many illuitnlioiii. ¦'—EdiJmrgk Dmiif Krmm, 

" An a nnrin g ihiiliagivonh . . . cambLomg chuca litcntun of buhnalioiu."^ 

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the 
Unexplored R^ons oT Central Africa, Irom 186S to 1871. B; Di. 
GsoRG Sc»weinpi;rth. Numerous IlluitraliDns, and lai^ Map. 
3 vols., crown Svo, doth, 151. 

Healh {Francis George). See " Fern World," " Fern Paradise," 
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns," "GQpin's Tzitt. 
Scenery," '¦ Buraham Beeches," " Sylvan Spring," &c 

Heller's {Bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. With upwards 
of 100 beautiful Engnvings. Small 410, handsomely bound, 7/. 6A 
Morocco, iZt. td. andiu. An entirely New EdiCioo. 

Heir of Kilfinnan ( The). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston, 
Author of "SnowShoesandCanoes," &c With Illustrationi, Cloth, 
gilt edges, "Js. td. ; plainer binding, plain edges, Sr. 

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated froni the 
French of G ASTON Tissandibr. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial 
l6ino, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by tha 
best Permuicnt Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by 
the late Mr. Henky Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6c, 

History of a Crime {The) ; Deposition of an Eyewitness. By 
ViCTOK Huoo. 4 vols., crown Svo, 4V. Cheap Edition, i vol., 6r. 

— • Ancient Art. Translated from the German of John 

WiNCKELMANN, by JoBH LODGB, M.D. With very ¦ 
Plata and Illustrations, a roll., Sro, 361. 

Errand. See Guizor. 

Prana. See Guizor, 



14 Sampson Law, Marstoit, &• Co.'s 

Hhtory of Russia. Su Raubaud. 

Merchant Shifpa^. See LtKDSAT. 

¦ United S^ta. SeeBKrurT. 

History and Principles ef Weaving by Hand and by Pcnver. With 
lereral hniidred IlliutimtioDs. Br Alfkxd Baux>w. Bojil %ya, 
doth ntn, I/. Jr. Second EdMon. 

How I Crossed Africa : from the AHantic to the Indian Ocean, 
Tliniiigli Unknown Cmmtiiei ; DiKorcir of the Great Zunbcn 
AfflDcnti, ftc— VoL L, The King*! Rifle. Vol. II., The CoiUud 
Funilj. Bjr Major Skua PiNTa With 34 fall-page ud ii8 half- 
page and (mallei Illoitratiani^ 13 mall Map^ and I lai^ oac 
3 vol*., AeiBj Svo, cloth eitia, 431. 

How to Live Long. See Hall. 

How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Blaikik. 
A Manual of Rational, Flijrsical, Gjrmna^c, and other Eiemles. 
With Itlostrations, nuall post 8to, p. 

Hu^ ( Victor) "Mnety-Three." Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6j. 

Toilers of the Sea. Crown Svo. Illustrated, 6s. ; iincy 

boardi, 3J. ; doth, 3J. 6J. ; On large paper with mil the original 
llliutrationi, tcu. 61/. 

• . See " History of a Crime." 

Hundred Greatest Men (TTie). & portfolios, ais. each, or 4 
?oK, half morocco, gilt edges, 13 guineas, containing Ij to 30 
Portraits each. See bdow. 

"Hhb*. Samhok Lnw ft Co. ucuboot to isw an bnponuii ' IntautiDBal' 
work, eniitled, 'THE HtlNDREO GREATEST MEN ^ btior the Untuid 
Fonniti of iht los Grucm Hcb oT HiMoty, diiidcd iau Eithi Cbuo, eufa Clua 
to form m Msnihl^r Quana Volume. Ttic IniroducdiHi) (o UK Tolumo (re to be 
wrilten by rtcogniMl authoritki oa tlw dlffeieat bibjectt. the Euf liifa eofiiribam* 
beiu DiAN STiiMLin', Mr Matthiw Arholo, Mr. f (ovoa, aikd Pmlaw Max 
Meujn: io Gcmuny, Fnfaaa Kilhholti; in Frua, MM. Taihb iimI 
RiHAH ; And in AmericA, Mr. EuaisoH. The Pcdniu are to b* Rcproductioiu 
trota dot Aud ran Sieet Eagn,naiL''—AtmJrm^. 

Hygiene and PublU Health (A Trtatue on). Edited by A. H. 

Buck, M.D. Illustrated b^ nnmerooi Wood Engraving In 3 

roral 8to vfds., doth, one guinea each. 
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See 

BiCKUtSTBTK. 



TLLVSTRATED Texl-Books of Art-Education. Edited by 
¦* Edward J. Poyntk*, R.A, Each Volume contains mimcrotu Utm- 
trations, and is strongly bound for the use of Student^ price Jf. The 
Volume* now readjr are : — 

FAIKTINC. 
OlMalo Kid Itallui. B7 Pebct I Oannan, Flamlah, >nd Z^atalt. 
R. Hkad. With 50 niostcatioii^ Frenob ftnd Spaniah. 



list ^ Pkilhxtums. 



lUustmttd Tixt-Boeks {eontinutS) .— 

ARCHincrnu. 
OUaala and Barlr OlirlatUn. 
OotUo and BraalaMnM. B7 T, RoqeX SHtTH, Vnib 50 lUnitnf 

SCDLPTDRt 
Antlqaa ; Bsyptlui asd Orssk. [ BcoftlMftnoe knd Xodflia. 
OKNAMBNT. 

DMontian la Oolovr. | AnUteotnnl OraamMit. 

IHustratiom of China and its Pecfle, By J, Thomfsok, 
F.R.G.S. Foot Volumes, imperul 410, CMh 3/. jr. 

In my Indian Gardai. By Phil Robinson, Author of "Under 
the Punkah." With a FrcTaixbr Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I.,&c 
Crown Svo, limp cloth, jr. 6^. 

Involuntary Voyage {An). Showing how a Frenchman wfao 
¦bhoned the 5n via most nnwilliiigly uid hj t, terie* of &ccidenti 
drivcD nrand the World. Nnmeroos lUaitrations. Square ctowo 
Svo, doth exire, 1>. fni. ; plainer binding plain edges, y. 

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-Mots, and 'S&.o- 
puphical Sketches of the Bench and Bu of Ireland. By J. Rodzkick 
O'Flamagan, BuTuter-at-lAw. Crown Svo^ in. Second Edition. 

Irish Land Qutsliim, and English Public Opinion {TTu). With 
a Supplement on Griffith's Valuation. B7 R. Barry 0'B*ikn, 
Author of " The Parliamentaty History of the Irish Land Qaestion." 
Fcap. Svo, cloth, 2/. 

Irving { Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works 
in 37 Vols., Copjrright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest 
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon " Edition, handsomely printed 
in Urge square Svo, on superfine laid paper, atid each Tolame, of 
about 500 pages, will be fully Illustrated, lit. 6d. per vol Sa alia 
"Little Britain." 

^ACKandym. By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth, 
^ gilt edges, 5^ With numeroiis Illustrations. 
John Holdsworih, Chief Matt. By W. Clarke B.USSKLL, 
Author of "Wredc of the Grosrenor." Crown Svo, &r. 

J^INGSTONiW. H. G.). See "Snow-Shoes," "Child of 

¦**¦ the Cavem," "Two Supercargoes," "With Axe and Rifle," 

"Begum's Fortune," " Heir of KilJinnan," " Diet Cheveley." Each 

vol, with very nmnerooa lUnstralioiu, square crown i6mo, gilt edges^ 

yt. id.; plainer tunding, plain edges, 5>. 



1 6 Sampson Low^ Marsian^ ^ Co^s 

T ADY Silverdal^s Sweetheart. 6$. See Black. 

Lenten Meditations, In Two Series, each complete in itsel£ 
By the Rev. Claude Bosanquet, Author of "Blossoms from the 
King's Garden.*' i6mo^ doth, First Series, ix. 6d, ; Second Series^ 2x. 

Library of Religious Poetry, A Collection of the Best Poems 
of all Ages and Tongues. With Bi(»[raphical and Literary Notes. 
Edited by Philip Schaff, D.D., lLd., and Arthur Uii.man, 
M. A. Royal Svo, pp. 1036, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2ix. 

Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner {Tke). 
2 Yols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36X. 

Lindsay {W. S,) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient 
Conunerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 ?ols.^ 
demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, 2ij. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24r. each. 

Little Britain; together with The Spectre Bridegroom^ and A 
legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely 
New Edition de luxe, specially suitable for Presentation. Illustrated 
by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr. J. D. Cooper. 
Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Square crown 8vo» cloth 
extra, gilt edges, lOr. 6d, 

Little King ; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count By 
S. Blandy. 64 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, 71. 6d, ; plainer 
binding, $s. 

Little Mercy ; or. For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne 
Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c., &c. Small 
post 8vo, cloth extra, 41. Second Edition. 

Lost Sir Massingberd, New Edition, crown 8 vo, boards, coloured 

wrapper, 2J. 

Jjnds German Series— ^ 

1. The HloBtrated German Primer. Being the eauest introduction 

to the study of German for all beginners, ix. 

2. The Children's own Gernum Book. A Selection of Amusing 

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissnsr. 
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d. 

3. The First German Header, for Ohlldren firom Ten to 

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo^ 
cloth, is. 6d. 

4. The Second German Header. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. 

Small post 8vo, cloth, ix. 6d, 

BuchhdnCs Deutsche Prosa. Two Volunus^ sold separatdy :— 

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prose Works 

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students. By Dr. BucHHSiu. 
Small post 8vo, 2x. 6^. 

6. Goethe*8 Prosa. Selections from the Prose Works of Goethe, 

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. BucHHElM. Small 
post 8vo, 3J. 6^. 



List of JPublicaiums. z 7 



Lou^s International Series of 2by Books. 6d. each; or 
Mounted on Linen, is. 

I. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjomsen's "Norwegian 

Fairy Tales." 
3. The Lad and the Korth Wind, ditta 

3. The Pancake, ditto. 

4. The Little Katoh Girl, from H. C Andersen's ''Danish 

Fairy Tales." 

5. The Bmperor'a New Olothea, ditto. 

6. The Gallant Tin Soldier, ditto. 

The above in i vol., cloth extra, gilt edges, with the whole 36 
Coloured Illustrations, 5/. 

Zozt^s Standard Library of Travel and Adventure, Crown 8vo, 
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price ^s. 6d, 

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, C.B. 

2. The WUd North Land. By Major W. F. Butlkr, CB. 

3. How I found Livingstone. By H. M. Stanley. 

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Region. By C. R. Mark- 

HAM. (4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, lor. 6^.) 

5. A Whaling Omise to Bai&n's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia. 

By A. H. Markham. 

6. Campaigning on the Oxos. By J. A. MacGahan. 

7. Akim-foo: the History of a Failure. By Major W. F. 

Butler, CB. 

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With 

Illustrations. 

9. Omise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, R.N. 

la Schweinfurth's Heart of Afirica. 2 vols., 15^. 

II. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol., 
12X. dd. 

Lottos Standard Novels, Crown 8vo, 6s, each, cloth extra. 

Ky Iiady Greensleeves. By Helen Mathers, Authoress of 
«* Comin' through the Rye," " Cherry Ripe," &c. 

Three Feathers. By William Black. 

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With 

Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A. 
Kilmeny. A Novel By W. Black. 
In Silk Attire. By W. Black. 
X«ady Silverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black. 

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat By Victor 
Hugo. 



z8 Sampum Lcw^ Manton^ &* Co!s 

Lonfs Standard Novels {amttnued) .*— 

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmorx. 

I«oma I>oone. By R. D. Blackmors. 8th Editioo, 

Oradook KoweU. By R. D. Blackmors. 

Olara Vanffhan. By R. D. Blackmorb. 

Grippe the Oarrier. By R. D. Blackmorb. 

Brema; or, Ky Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmors. 

Vary Anerley. By R. D. Blackmors. 

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight niastiations. 

Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. lUiistni* 
tions. See also Rose Library. 

The Afghan Knife. By R. A Sterndals, Aathor of "Seonee.** 
A French Heiress in her own Ohateaiu By the Aathor of 
" One Only," " Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations. 

Kinety-Three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations. 

Ky Wife and I. By Mrs. Beschkr Stows. 

Wreck of the Orosrenor. By W. Clark Russelu 

John Holdsworth (Chief Mate). By W. Clark Russsll. 

Blinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. 

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. 

Poffannc People, Their Z«oyes and Liyes. By Mrs. BsECKUt 
Stowe. 

A Gtolden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Hoby. 
A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylnm Ohristi. By the Rer. 
E. Gilliat, M.A 

Lau/s Handbook to the Charities of London, Edited and 

revised to date by C. Mackeson, F.S.S., Editor of "A Guide to the 
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Paper, u, ; doth, ix. 6x^ 

lijfACGAJIAN (y. A,) Campaigning on the OxuSy and tha 
^'^ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition, 
small post 8vo, cloth extra, y, 6d, 

Macgregor {John) ^^Rob JRoy'* on the Baltic. 3rd Edition, 
small post 8vo, 2j. 6d, ; cloth, gilt edges, y. Sd, 

A Thousand Miles in the '^Rob Roy'' Canoe, nth 

Edition, small post 8vo, 24, 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, y, dd. 

Description of the " Rob Roy*" Canoe^ with .Plans, 



&€., IS, 

The Voyage Alone in the Yawl " Rob Roy.*' New 



Edition, thoroughly revised, with addition^ small p<^ Sto, $/. ; 
boards, 2x. 6d, 



List of Publications. 19 



Mackenzie (D.) "^The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald 
Mackenzie. 8to, doth extn, with lUustntioDs, 10s. 6d. 

Macguoid {Afrs.) Elinor Dryden. Crown 8vO| cloth, 6x. 

Diane. Crown 8vo, ds. 

Magazine. See Harper. 

Markham (C. J?.) The Jhreshold of the Unknown Region. 

Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, iQf. (mL 

Maury (Commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its 
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his fonnei 
Work, wiUi Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown 8vo, ts. 

Memoirs of Count Mtot de Melito. 2 vols., demy 8vo, 365. 

Memoirs of Madame de Rkmusat, 1802 — 1 808. By her Grand- 
son, M. Paul de Remusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Cashel 
HoEY and Mr. John Lillib. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This 
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she 
was living on the most intimate terms ¥dth the EmpreBS Josephine, 
and is full of revelations respecting the private life ot Bonaparte, and 
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations 
which have already created a great sensation in Paris, ovo, 2 vols., 32/. 

Mentis (366, one for each day cf the year). Translated from the 
French of Count Brisse, by Mrs. Matthew Clakkx. Crown 
8vo, lor. td. 

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most 
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for thb publica- 
tion, price IX. dd. monthly. Vols. I., II., III., Iv., and V., hand- 
somely bound, cloth, gilt edges, 251. each. 

Mendelssohn Family (The). Translated from the German of 
K Bock. Demy 8vo, i6f. 

Michcul Strogoff. 10s. 6d. and 55. .Sl;^ Verne. 

Mitford (Miss). See " Our Village." 

Military Maxims. By Captain B. Terling. Medium i6mOy 

in roan case, ydth pencil for the pocket, lor. 6d. 

Mountain and Prairie : a Journey from Victoria to Winnipeg, 
piA Peace River Pass. By the Rev. Daniel M. Gordon, B.D., 
Ottawa. Small post 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, cloth extra, 
tt.6d. 

Music. See ^* Great Musicians." 

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Mathers, Authoress of 

«Comin' through the Rye," "Cheny Ripe^" &c. i yoL edition, 
crown 8yo^ doth, 6r. 



30 Sampson LoWy MarsUm^ &* Co!$ 

Mysterious Island, By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial i6mo. 
150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, y. (itU each; daboiately botind, gilt 
edges, 7/. dd, each. Cheap Edition, with aome of the Illiistxmtioiii^ 
cloth, gilt, zr. ; paper, u. each. 

ISJATIONAL Music of the World. By the late Henry F. 
* ^ Chorley. Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, 8x. 6^ 

Naval Brigade in South Africa (The), By Henry F. Nor- 
BURY, C.B., R.N. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, lor. M, 

New Child s Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beauti- 
fully printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d, 

New Guinea {A Few Months in). By OcfAVius C. Stone, 
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own 
Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth, 12s. 

¦ What I did and what I saw. By L. M. D'Albertis, 
Officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy, Honorary Member and 
Gold Medallist of the LR.G.S., CM.Z.S., &c., &c. In 2 vols^ 
demy 8yo, cloth extra, with Maps, Coloured Plates, and numerous 
very fine Woodcut Illustrations, 42J. 

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols., 

demy Svo, 30^. Cheaper Edition, i voL, crown Svo, Sf. dd. 

New Novels. Crown Svo, cloth, lox. dd. per voL : — 

SCary Marston. By George MacDonald. 3 vols. Third Edition. 

Sarah de Beranffer. By Jean Ingelow. 3 vols. 

Don John. By Jean Ingelow. 3 vols. 

Sunrise : A Story of these Times. By William Black. 3 vols. 

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell. Author of " The 

Wreck of the Grosvenor," "John Holdsworth," &c 3 vols. 
Ziisa Lena. By Edward Jenkins, Author of "Ginxls Baby." 

2 vols. 

A Plot of the Present Day. By Kate Hope. 3 vols. 

Black Abbey. By M. Crommeun, Author of '*Queenie,* &c 

3 vols. 

Flower o' the Broom. By the Author of "Rare Pale Margaret," 

3 vols. 
The Qrandidiers : A Tale of Berlin. Translated from the German 

by Captain Wm. Savile. 3 vols. 
Errant : A Life Story of Latter-Day Chivalxv. By Percy Greg, 

Author of " Across the Zodiac," &c 3 vols. 
Fancy Free. By C. Gibbon. 3 vob. 
The Stillwater Tragedy. By J. B. Aldricr. 
Vrinoe Fortane and Prince FataL By Mib. CARRlNOTOlfy 

Author of *' My Cousin Maurice^" &c 3 vols. 



List of Publications. 2 1 



New Novels {continued) : — 

An English Sqnire. By C. B. Coleridge. Author of *'Lady 

Betty," • * Hanbury Wills,'* &c 3 vols. 
Ohristowell. By R. D. Blackmore. 3 vols. 
Ur. Oaroli. By Miss Seguin. 3 vols. 
David Broome, Artist. By Miss O'Reilly. 3 vols. 
Braes of Tarrow. By Chas. Gibbon. 3 vols. 

Nice and Her Neighbours, By the Rev. Canon Hole, Author 

of •• A Book about Roses," ** A Little Tour in Ireland," &c. Small 
4to, with numerous choice Illustrations, 12s. 6d. 

Noble Words and Noble Deeds, From the French of E. Muller. 

Containing many Full-page Illustrations by Phiuppoteaux. Square 
imperial i6mo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5j. 

North American Review (TTie), Monthly, price 2S. 6d, 

Nothing to Wear; and Two Millions. By W. A. Butler. 
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, is. 

Nursery Playmates {Prince of ). 217 Coloured pictures for 
Children by eminent Artbts. Folio, in coloured boards, d^ 



QBERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the 

^^ Mountains." 

O'Brien. See "Parliamentary History" and "Irish Land 
Question." 

Old-Fashioned Girl. See Alcott. 



On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burnaby, 

Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols., 
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 3Sf. ; 
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, tor. 6d, 

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins. 
With Frontispiece afler Sir Joshua Reynolds. Fcap., cloth extra. 
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, 5^. 

Our Village. By Mary Russell Mitford. Illustrated with 

Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts 
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, doth, gilt edges, 21s. 

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post 8vo, 

dodi, gilt edges, uniform with " Fern World " and " Fem Paradise," 
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every 
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, doth, gilt edges, 12s, 6d. Third 
Edition, 



33 Sampson Low^ Marston^ &* Co.s 

pAINTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other 

'^ Writers. 500 pp., saper-royal 8vo, 20 Full-po^ and 70 smaller 
Engravings, cloth extra, 2$s, A New Editiop is issued in Half- 
crown parts, with fifty additional portraits, doth, gilt edges, 31J. 6d. 

Painting {A Short History of the British School of). By 
Geo. H. Shepherd. Post 8vo, doth, y. 6d, 

JPalliscr (Mrs.) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period. 
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards 
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs, i voL, 8vo, i/. ix. 

¦ Historic Devices^ BadgeSy and War Cries. 8vo, i/. ix. 

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With up- 
wards of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition, 
with Additions. Small post 8vo, limp cloth, 5x. 

Parliamentary History of the Irish Land Question (The). From 
1829 to 1869, and the Origin and Results of the Ulster Custom. By 
R. Barry O'Brien, Barrister-at-Law, Author of '*The Irish Lnnd 
Question and English Public Opinion." 3rd Edition, corrected and 
revised, with additional matter. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s, 

The Right Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., in a Letter to the Author, taTs:— 
'*I thank you for kindly sending me your work, and I hope that the tad and dis- 
creditable story which you have told so well in your narrative of the Irish 



creoitabie storv wcicn you nave told so wen in your narrauve 01 ine inaa i^Aod 

Suestion mav be useful at a period when we have more than ever of reason todecira 
At it should be thoroughly understood.'* 

Pathways of Palestine : a Descriptive Tour through the Holy 
Land. By the Rev. Canon Tristram. Illustrated with 44 per- 
manent Photographs. (The Photographs are large, and roost perfect 
Specimens of the Art.) Published in 22 Mondily Parts, 4to, in 
Wrapper, 2j. 6^. each. 

"... The Photographs which illustrate these pages may jnsdy daun, m worin 
of art, to be the most admirabl^r executed views wbich have been produced. ... 

"As the writer u on the point of makine a fourth visit of exploradon to Um 
country, anv new discoveries which come under observation will be at oooa inoQf^ 
porated in this work.** 

Peasant Life in the West of England. By Francis Georos 
Heath, Author of *• Sylvan Spring," *« The Fem World." Crown 
8vo, about 350 pp. , iQf. (>d. 

Petites Leqons de Conversation et de Grammaire: Oral €md 
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Usefbl 
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c By 
F. Julien, French Master at King Edward ttie Sixth's SchooC 
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French £xaminer/' *< FiiBt 
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see. 

Phillips (Z.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8v€^ 
i/. iis.6d. 

Photography {History and Handbook of). See Tissandiss. 



Z£r/ of Publieafums. S3 



Physical TVeatise en Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H. 
Gordon, B.A. With about 200 coloured, fuU-page, and other 
Ulustratioiis. Among the newer portions of the work may be 
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Striae by Spottis- 
woode, De la Rue, Moulton, &c., an account of Mr. Crooke's recent 
researdtes ; full descriptions and pictures of all the modem Magnetic 
Surrey Instruments now used at ICew Obserratory ; full accounts of 
all the modem work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more 
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). In respect to 
the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work is quite unique. 
2 vols., 8vo, 3dr. 

Pinto {Major Serpa). See " How I Crossed Africa." 

PlutarcKs Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition. 
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2A lOf. ; half-morocco, 

tilt top, 3/. Also in i voL, royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, i8r. ; 
alf-bound, %ls. 

Poems of the Inner Life, A New Edition, Revised, with many 
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, doth, ^r. 

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher 
Stowb. Crown 8vo, doth, 6x. 

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan, 

and Na&ks. 

I\fynier {Edward/., R,A.). See " Illtjstrated Text-books." 

Practical (A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England. 
By C. £. Pascos. New Edition, crown 8vo, doth extra, y. Set, 

PrejevcUsky {N, M,) From Kulja, across the Tian Shan to Lolh 
nor. Translated by £. DKLMAa Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo^ 
with a Map. i6f. 

Primitive Folk Moots ; or. Open- Air Assemblies in Britain. 
By George Laurence Gomme, F.S.A., Honorarv Secretary to the 
Folk-Lore Sodety, Author of *' Index of Munidpal Offices." i vol, 
crown 8vo, cloth, 12/. 

This work deals with an earlier phase of the history of English 
Institutions than has yet been attempted. 

Publisher^ Circular {Thi), and General Record of British and 
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 5^ 

Pyrenees {Thi). By Henry Blackburk. With 100 Illustra- 
tions bv GusTAVB DoRB, a New Map of Routes, and Information for 
Travellers, corrected to 1881. With a description of Lonrdes in i88a 
Crown 8vo^ doth extra, is. 6</. 



24 Sampson Low^ Marston^ &* Co!t 

pAMBA UD {Alfred). History of Russia, from its Origm 
-* *• to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. I* B. 
LAh.2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 381. 

Recolledions of Writers. By Charles and Mary Cowdsm 

Clarke. Authors of ** The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ; 
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Jkkjlold, 
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Cowden Clarkx. 
Crown 8vo, doth, lor. d</. 

Rkmusat {Madame de). See " Memoirs o£" 

Robinson (Phil). See " In my Indian Garden,*' « Under the 

Punkah." 
Rochefoucauld s Reflections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d. 
Rogers {S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of 

Choice Books." 2J. 6d. 

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott. 

TTie Rose Library. Popular Literature of all countries. Each 

volume, u. ; doth, 2x. 6d, Many of the Volumes are Illustrated— 

1. Sea-Qxdl Book. By Jules Sandeau. Illustrated. 

2. Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott. 

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequd to ''Little Women.** 

4. The HoTua on Wheels. By Madame de Stolz. Illustrated. 

5. Little Ken. By Louisa M. Alcott. Dble. vol, 2s. ; cloth, 31. 6iL 

6. The Old-Fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double 

vol, 2s. ; doth, 31. 6</. 

7. TheMiAtreMof theUanse. By J. G. Holland. 

8. Timothy Titoomb's Letters to Tonnff People, Bin^le and 

SCarried. 

9. TTndine, and the Two Oaptaina. By Baron Db La Motts 

FouQUi. A New Translation by F. E. Bunnett. Illustrated, 
la Draxy Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxs 
Holm. 

11. The Four Gh>ld Pieces. By Madame Gouraud. Numerous 

Illustrations. 

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa l/L 

Alcott. 

13. Beginning Asrain. Being a Continuation of "Work." By 

Louisa M. Alcott. 

14. Piooiola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Saintink. 

NumeroiM Graphic Illustrations. 



List of Publications. 25 



The Rose Library (continued) : — 

15. Sebert'0 Holidays. Illustrated. 

16. The Two Ohildren of St. 2>ominffO. Numerous niustratkNUi 

17. Aunt Jo's Sorap Bar. 

18. Stowo (Mrs. H« B.) The Pearl of.Onr'a Zeland. / 
19. The Xiniater'e Wooinff. 

2a Betty's Bright Idea. 

21. ¦ The Ghost in the Km. 

22. — — Oaptain Bidd's Koney. 

23. .— ^— We and onr Keiffhbours. Double vol., 2s, 

24. ' SCy Wife and I. Double vol, 2s, ; doth, gilt, 31. 6d, 

25. Hans Brinker ; or, the Silver Skates. 

26. liOwell'sKy Study Window. 

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian An^eL 

28. Warner (O. D.) SCy Summer in a Garden. 

29. Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." 2 vols. , is, each. 
3a Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim. 

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies." 

32. Dred. By Mrs. Bsschbr Stowe. Double vol., 2s, ; cloth« 

gilt, 3^. 6^ 

33. Warner (0. D.) In the Wilderness. 

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story. 

35. Nothing to Wear, and Two Millions* 

36. Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton. 

Russell ( W. Clarke). See " A Sailor's Sweetheart," 3 vols., 

31/. td, ; "Wreck of the Grosvenor," 6x. ; "John Holdsworth (Chief 
Mate)," 6x. 

Russell {W. H,y LL.D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in 
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney 
P. Hall, M.A. Super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 52/. 6^.; 
Laige Paper Edition, 841. 

CANCTA Christina: a Story of the First Century. By 
^ Eleanor £. Orlebar. With a Pre&ce by the Bishop of Winchester. 
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^. 

Seonee : Sporting in the Satpura Range of Central India^ and in 
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Stsrndalb, F.R.G.S. 8vo, 
with numerous Illustrations, 2i/. 

Seven Years in South Africa : Travels^ Researches^ and Hunting 
Adventures between &e Diamond-Fidds and the Zambesi (1872 — 
1879). By Dr. Emil Holub. With over 100 Original Illustrations 
and 4 Maps. In 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra. 42/. 



96 Sampson Low^ Marstan^ &• Co*s 

Serpent Charmer {The) : a Tale of the Indian MuHe^. By 

Louis Rousselbt, Author of "India uid its Native Priaoes.** 
Numerous Illustrations. Crown Sto, cloth eitni, gilt edges, 7x. td, % 
plainer binding, 5/. 

Shakespeare {The Boudoir). Edited by Henry Cundxu. 

Carefully bracketted for reading aloud ; freed fipom all objectioiiafale 
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price ax. td. eadi votimie^ 
cloth extra, gilt ^ges. Contents : — ^Vol I., Cymbeline — ^Merchant of 
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, \t, VoL II., As Yoa 
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. V6L III., Romeo 
and Juliet— Twelfth Night— King John. The ktter six plays aepep 
rately, paper cover, 9^. 

Shakespeare Key {Thi), Forming a Companion to "The 

Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charlbs and Maky 
CowDEN Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 211. 

Shooting: its ApplianceSy Practia^ and Purpose. By James 
Dalziel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A., Author of ''Scottish Field 
Sports," &C. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, lor. (i(L 

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it erery suoctss.**— ^M«. 

"A ven* complete treatise. .... Likely to take high rank as an authori^ oa 
shooting.'^^ai^^ News. 

Silent Hour { The). See " Gentle Life Series." 

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott. 

Simon {yules). See " Ck)vemment of M. Thiers." 

Six to One. A Seaside Story. i6mo, boards, ix. 

Smith {G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late 
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy 
8vo, 6th Edition, i8f. 

-^— The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late 
G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Mnseam, 
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extnu 6di Edition, i6f. 

An entirely New Edition, completely revised and 



written by the Rev. Professor Saycs, Queen's College^ Oxford. 
Demy 8vo, l&r. 

Snow-shoes and Canoes; or^ the Adventures of a Fkr-Hunier 
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. KlifOSTOir. and 
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown 8yo, doth 
extra, gilt edges, 7/. M ; plainer bindings 51. 



last cf PublicaHofu. 37 



Sof^gs and Etchings in Slwde mid Sunshine. By J. R G. 
Illostrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to^ doth, gilt tops, 25/. 

Swih African Campaign^ 1879 (J^)' Compiled by J. P. 

MACKINNON (formerly 72iid Highlanders), and S. H. Shadbolt; 
and dedicated, bypenmsnon, to Field-Marshal H.R.H. The Dulia 
of Cambridge. 4tOy handsomely bound in doth extra, 2/. lor. 

South Kensington Museum, Published, with the sanction of 
the Science and Art Department, in Monthly Parts, each con- 
taining 8 Plates, price i/. Volume L, containing 12 numbers, hand- 
somely bound, i6s, 

Stanly {If. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown 8vo, doth 

extra, 7/. 6</. ; large Paper Edition, lOr. 6</. 



'^My Kalulu,"* Prince, King, and Slave. A Stoiy 

from Central Africa. Crown 8vo, about 430 pp. , with numerous graphic 
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, 7/. (m. 



Coomassie and Magdala. A Story of Two British 

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6s. 

Through the Dark Continent, which see. 



Story of a Mountain (The). By E. Reclus. Translated by 
Bertha Ness. Svo, wiUi Illustrations, doth extra, gilt edges, 
7/. 6it. 

Story of a Soldier's Life {The) ; or, Peace, War, and Mutiny. 
By Lieut.-General John Alexander Ewart, C.B., Aide-de*Camp 
to the Queen from 1859 to 1872. 2 vols., demy 8vo, with Illustra- 
tions. 

Story of the Zulu Campaign {The). By Major Ashe (l*te 

King's Dragoon Guards), and Captain the Hon. E. V. Wyatt- 
Edgell (late 17th Lancers, killed at Ulundi). Dedicated by special 
permission to Her Imperial Highness the Empress Eug^iie. ovo, l6r« 

Story without an End. From the German of Carov^, by the late 
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings 
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water 
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, is. 6<L 

¦ square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d. 



Stowe {Mrs. Beecher) Dred. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth, 

gilt edges, y. 6d. 



38 Sampson Law^ Marston^ &* Cq!s 



Stowe (Mrs. Beecher) Footsteps of the JIfasUr. With Illustx»- 

tions and red borders. Small post Sto, doth extra, &t, 

— ~^ Geography^ with 60 Illustrations. Square doth, 4^. &£ 



Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, ix.; Library Edition, 

Betty's Bright Idea. is. 



Afy Wife and I; or^ Harry Henderson's History, 

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6x.* 

Minister's Wooing. ^s.\ Copyright Series, \s. 6d.; cL, 2j.* 

Old Town Folk. 6s. \ Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d. 

Old Tozvn Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 3X. 6d. 

— Our Folks at Fogantic. 10s. 6d. 



We and our Neighbours, i vol., small post 8vo, 6s 

Sequel to " My Wife and !."? 

Fink and White Tyranny. Small post 8vo, 31. 6d, 



Cheap Edition, is. 6d, and zr. 

Queer Little Feople, is. ; cloth, 2s. 

Chimney Comer, is. ; cloth, is. 6d. 

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown 8vo, 5 j.* 

Little Fussey Willow. Fcap., 2s. 



Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated with re 

Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress. Dem 
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 251. 

Studenfs French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites 
Le9ons de Conversation et de Grammaire." Square crown 8vo, cloth, 2j> 

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited 
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George 
H. BoKER. Svo, cloth extra, lor. 6d, 

* S*t aU0 Rose Library. 



List of Publications. 39 



Studies in the TTuory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann, 

Professor in the University of Freiboig. Translated and edited by 
Raphael Meldola, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society 
of London. Part L — " On the Seasonal Dimoxphism of Botterflies," 
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of 
Coalbmsh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Sub- 
scribers for the whole work only), %s ; Part II. (6 coloured plates), l6r. ; 
Port III., 6f. 

Sugar Beet (The). Including a History of the Beet Sugar 
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils, 
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting, 
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of 
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 2Ij. 

Sullivan {A. M.,M.F.). &^ '< New Ireland." 

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical JV-eatise on the Manufacture of). 
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Eneineers. With 
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations. Royal Svo, 2l.i2s.6d. 

Sumner (Hon. Charles). See Life and X.etters. 

Sunrise: A Story of These Times. By William Black, 

Author of " A Daughter of Heth,*' &c 3 vols., 3IJ. 6d. 

Surgeon^ s Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War. By 
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgqy in the University of 
Kiel, and Surgeon-General to the Prussian Army. Translated by 
H. H. Clutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured 
Plates and Illustrations, Svo, strongly bound in flexible leather, i/. %s. 

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by 

12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., Artist and 
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than 
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post Svo, cloth^ gUt edges, 12s. 6d. 



"TAUCHNIT^S English Editions of German Authors. 
"^ Each volume, cloth flexible, 2f. ; or sewed, is, 6d. (Catalogues post 
free on application.) 



(B,) German and English Dictionary. Cloth^ is. 6d.; 



roan, 2s, 



2s. (id. 



Freruh and English. Paper, \s. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan 



30 Sampson Law, Marstan, (Sk Co^s List of Publications. 
Tauchnits (B.) Italian and Engiish Dictionary. Paper, ij; tf«£; 

dothy 2S. ; roan, 2s, M 

Spanish and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; doth, 2s. ; roan, 



2s, 6d, 

^€W Testament. Clotii, ax. ; gilt, 2s. 6d. 



Ihylor {Bayard). See " Studies in German Literature.* 

Through America ; or, Nine Months in the United States. By 
W. G. Marshall, M.A. With nearly loo Woodcuts of Yievn of 
Utah country and the famous Yosemite Valley; The Giant Trees, 
New York, Niagara, San Francisco, &c. ; containing a full account 
of Mormon Life, as noted by the Author during his visits to Salt LaJce 
City in 1S78 and 1^79. In I vol, demy 8vo, 21s, 

Through the Dark Continent: The Sources of the Nile; Around 
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley. 
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150' Full-page and other Illustrations, 
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, 42J. Seventh Thousand. 
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps. 

I vol., I2X. (id. 

Jbur of the Prime of Wales in India, See Russell. 

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt 

edges, with numerous Illustrations, 5^. td. 

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of " Adventures of 

a Young Naturalist," ** My Rambles in the New World," &c Small 
post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, *ls, td, ; plainer binding, 51. 

Two Supercargoes {The) ; or. Adventures in Savage Africa. 
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square 
imperial i6mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7x. (ki, ; plainer binding, 5^-. 



TJNDER the Punkah. By Phil Robinson, Author of "In 

^ my Indian Garden." Crown 8vo, limp cloth, uniform with the 
above, y, 6d. 

Up and Down; or, Fifty Year^ Experiences in Australia, 
California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific. 
Being the Life History of Capt W. J. Barry. Written by HimselC 
With several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, %s, dd. 



BOOKS BY JULES VEBNE. 



LiBfti Obowv 8T9 • 



• • 



WORKS. 



J 



Oontaioing 800 to 600 pp. 
I and from 60 to 100 
1^ ftiU-pAge illutrationt. 



Twenty Thousand Leagaes 

under the Sea. Fart L 

Ditto. Part IL 

Hector Seryadao. • • • 

The Fur C^ountry . . . 

From the Earth to the 
Moon and a Trip round 
it 

Michael Strogoff, the 
Courier of the Czar . 

Dick Sands, the Boy 
Captain 

Five Weeks in a Balloon 

Adventures of Three En 
glishmen and Three 
Bussians .... 

Around the World in 
Eighty Days . • . 

A Floating City . . . 

The Blockade Runners 

Dr. Ox's Experiment . 

Master Zacharias . . 

A Drama in the Air 

A Winter amid the Ice 

The Survivors of the 
" Chancellor "... 

Martin Paz .... 

Thb Mysterious Island, 
8 vols. : — 

Vol. L Dropped firom the 
Clouds 

Vol. II. Abandoned . • 

YoL III. Secret of the Is- 
land 

The Child of the Cavern . 

The Begum's Fortune . . 

The Tribulations of a 
Chinaman 

Thx SnAMHousB^Svols.:— 

YoL L The Demon of Cawn- 
pore 

YoLIL Tigers and Traitors 



Ihvexy 
handaome 
oloth bind- 
ing, giU 
edges. 



} 



J 



8, d, 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

22 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 



plainer 

oinding, 

plain 

edges. 



t. d. 

6 

5 

5 

6 

5 

5 

8 6 

8 6 

8 6 

8 6 

8 6 

8 6 

10 6 

3 6 

8 6 

8 6 

8 6 



Containing the wlude of the 
tSKt with some fflnstrations. 



In oloth 
^hiding, gilt 

¦BNulsr 
^ype. 



«. d. 
8 6 



8 6 

|vols.,8«. 
eaoh. 



8 

2 

2 

r 2 

t 2 

2 



! 



2 

2 

2 

6 

2 

2 

2 



OokNiied Boards. 



2to1s.,1«. each. 

2 vols., 1m* each. 
2yob.yl«.eaob. 



t. d. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 vols. 1«. eaoh. 

1 

8 

1 

1 

1 



OniBBATSD TsATiLS AWD TBAT1I.I.SB8. 8 vols. Demj 8vo, 600 pp., njiwards of 100 
Mil-page illostrations, 12*. 6i. ; gUt edges, 14i. eaoh t— 
(1) Thb BxrLOSATiov ov xn Wobu». 
(S) Tkb Okbat NATieATOBS OB nn EieHnBvn Oanjjwta 
{Z) Thb Obbat Exblobbbs ob ms Nxvbtbbvtk OBivm, 



$2 Sampson Low, Marston, &* Co!s Ust oj 



JJ/ALLER {Rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of I^ari, 
^'^ and other Studies. By the Rev. C H. Waller, BL A. 
Edition. Crown 8vo, doth extra, 6r. 

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Wards in 



the Greek Testament Compiled from Brtider's Concordance. For 
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the 
Rev. C. H. Waller, M. A. Part 1., The Grammar. Small post Zyo^ 
cloth, 2J. 6^. Part IL The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d, 

Adoption and the Covenant, Some Thoughts on 



Confirmation. Super-royal i6mo, cloth limp, ax. 6</. 

Warner (C, D,) My Summer in a Garden, Rose Libraiyy n. 

— ^— Back-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d, ; doth, 2s. 

' In the Wilderness. Rose Library, is. 

— ^— Mummies and Moslems. 8vo, cloth, 12s. 

Weaving, See " History and Principles." 

WHls^ A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance^ 
By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms 
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, is. 

With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies, By W. H. G. 

Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown 8vo, doth 
extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6(L ; plainer binding, $s. 

Woolsey (C. D,, LL,D,) Introduction to the Study of Inter^ 
national Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical 
Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, 1 8;. 

Words of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and 
Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letten^ 
and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d. 

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell, Author of 

" John Holdsworth, Chief Mate," " A SaUor's Sweetheart," &c. ts. 
Third and Cheaper Edition. 



tonHon: 

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON, 
CROWN BUILDINGS, x88, FLEET STREET, E.C. 



