About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/ethiopiaunbounds00hayf

--------------------------------------

ETHIOPIA UNBOUND: 

STUDIES IN RACE EMANCIPATION. 


BY 

CASELY HAYFORD, 

(EKRA-AGIMAN) 

BABRISTER-AT-LAW. 

Author of "GOLD COAST NATIVE INSTITUTIONS." 


LONDON:
C. M. PHILLIPS 
14 Portugal Street. 
1911.



TO THE SONS OF ETHIOPIA 


THE WORLD WIDE OVER. 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2016 with funding from 
University of Pretoria, Library Services 


https://archive.org/details/ethiopiaunboundsOOhayf 


CONTENTS, 


CHAPTER PAGE 

I. An Ethiopian Conservative 1 

II. Sowing the Wind . 12 

III. Love and Life ,15 

IY. Love and Death • . . 41 

V. In the Metropolis of the Gold Coast .... 65 

VI. The World, the Flesh, and the Devil ... 77 

VII. Signs of Empire : Loyal Hearts .... 91 

VIII. A Magisterial Function 101 

IX. The Yellow Peril 107 

X. The Black Peril 115 

XI. On the " Great North Western " . . . . 121 

XII. A Leader of Society 127 

XIII. Reaping the Whirlwind 139 

XIV. The Black Man's Burden 147 

XV. As in a Glass Darkly 157 

XVI. Race Emancipation — General Considerations : 

Edward Wilmot Blyden 161 

XVII. Race Emancipation — Particular Considerations : 

African Nationality 167 

XVIII. Race Emancipation : The Crux of the Matter . . 179 

XIX, A Similitude : The Greek and the Fanti . . 199 

XX. And a Little Child shall Lead them . . . 207 



* 



A GLOSSARY 


Omanhin , , . 

. Head of a state or king, plural AmanMn. 

Kruba 

. A vessel for carrying light articles ; in this 
case for collecting money. 

Nanamu . . . 

. The gods of the Fantis. 

Nanamu-Krome 

The abodes of the gods. 

Sanko Songs . , 

Sea songs. 

Wonkora tuonkor . 

Without whom not, an idiom signifying 
Leader of Leaders. 

Effua Kobi . . . 

The Mother of Calcali, King of Ashanti, 
before the war of 1873; 


DO NOT BELIEVE THAT YOU KNOW A 


PEOPLE IF YOU HAVE NOT ASCENDED TO 
THEIR GODS." — M. Edgar Quinet. 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


CHAPTER I. 

An Ethiopian Conservative. 

At the dawn of the twentieth century, men of 
light and leading both in Europe and in America 
had not yet made up their minds as to what place 
to assign to the spiritual aspirations of the black 
man; and the Nations were casting about for an 
answer to the wail which went up from the heart 
of the oppressed race for opportunity. And 
yet it was at best but an impotent cry. For there 
has never lived a people worth writing about who 
have not shaped out a destiny for themselves, or 
carved out their own opportunity. 

Before this time, however, it had been dis- 
covered that the black man was not necessarily 
the missing link between man and ape. It had 
even been granted that for intellectual endow- 
ments he had nothing to be ashamed of in an 
open competition with the Aryan or any other 


2 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


type. Here was a being anatomically perfect, 
adaptive and adaptable to any and every sphere 
of the struggle for life. Sociologically, he had 
succeeded in recording upon the pages of contem- 
porary history a conception of family life unknown 
to Western ideas. Moreover, he was the scion 
of a spiritual sphere peculiar unto himself; for 
when Western Nations would have exhausted 
their energy in the vain struggle for the things 
which satisfy not, it was felt that it would be to 
these people to whom the world would turn for 
inspiration, seeing that in them only would be 
found those elements which make for pure 
altruism, the leaven of all human experience. 

Again, the art of the caricaturist had by now 
been played out. It was no longer possible, as 
far as this race was concerned, to depict the 
Sultan of Zanzibar, for example, other than as an 
Ethiopian gentleman, £ ' clothed and in his right 
mind." 

And there were sons of God among them, men 
whom the Gods visited as of yore; for even now 
three continents were ringing with the names 
of men like Du Bois, Booker T. Washington, 
Blyden, Dunbar, Coleridge Taylor, and others — 
men who had distinguished themselves in the 
fields of activity and intellectuality — and it was 
by no means an uncommon thing to meet in the 


AN ETHIOPIAN CONSERVATIVE 


6 


universities of Europe and America the sons of 
Ethiopia in quest of the golden tree of knowledge. 

Here, in London, about the time of which we 
write, were to be seen two young men, walking 
arm in arm up Tottenham Court Eoad, and, ever 
and anon, stopping to examine old dirty books in 
some second-class bookstall, or some quaint relics 
in a curiosity shop. 

Presently, the twain stopped at a particularly 
ancient looking bookshop off a by-street leading 
to Upper Bedford Place. The darker man of the 
two picked up from the stall outside, a well- 
thumbed copy of Marcus Aurelius, and began 
carelessly to turn over the leaves. Suddenly he 
stopped, and his face grew pensive. Turning to 
his friend, he said, " Isn't it funny, Whitely, the 
remarkable similarity of thought and almost of 
expression there is between all the great teachers 
of the past ? Listen to what, for instance, 
Marcus Aurelius says here," reading aloud a 
paragraph from the Meditations , which ran thus': 
£: ' Pray not to save thy child, but that thou 
mayest not fear to lose him.' Now, you, a 
Divinity student, what do you make of that? " 
And without waiting for an answer, he added, 
" Does it not read very much like the teaching of 
the holy Nazarene — £ He that findeth his life shall 
lose it,' or words to that effect? Now, what I 


4 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


wish to know is what had Jesns Christ in common 
with Marcus Aurelius? " 

" Candidly, Kwamankra," said Whitely, " I 
have never given the matter a thought ; but since 
you put the question, and viewing it from a merely 
debatable standpoint, I am inclined to say that the 
first question to consider is whether Jesus Christ 
was man or God." 

Kwamankra raised his eyes in astonishment. 
" You do surprise me, Whitely; how can you, of 
all others, have any doubt upon the matter? I 
thought you were going up for Orders." 

Whitely appeared confused, but soon regaining 
composure, he said to his companion, " Let us 
move on." 

As they sauntered along, Whitely began : "You 
know, Kwamankra, I can talk better walking, and 
I will now answer the question you put to me a 
while ago. At one time I thought of taking 
Orders, and even now I may do so. But a little 
evil thing in the shape of an unanswerable doubt 
haunts me by day and night, and it is even the 
self-same question I put to you at the book shop." 
" Well, I hardly know what to say, Whitely. 
In these matters I, of course, regard myself as an 
outsider. You see we pagans come all the way 
here to sit at the feet of Gamaliel," he said with 
a little mischievous laugh, " and it is uncommonly 


AN ETHIOPIAN CONSERVATIVE. 


5 


hard upon us for you to entertain doubts upon the 
broad questions upon which we seek comparison 
and light. But I can conceive of no such difficulty 
as you experience in our system. Jesus Christ 
man or God? " he repeated slowly and musingly 
unto himself — then (turning somewhat suddenly 
to his friend, he said, " You know, Whitely, since 
I learnt your language, not as a vehicle of thought, 
but as a means of more intimately studying your 
philosophy, I have been trying to get at the root 
idea of the word ' God ' ; and so far as my 
researches have gone, it is an Anglo-Saxon word, 
the Teutonic form being Gutha, which is said to 
be quite distinct from ' good . 5 Whence then, one 
may ask, come your ideas, as associated with the 
fountain of all good, of omnipresence, omni- 
science, omnipotence ? Of course they are 
borrowed from the Romans, who were pagans like 
ourselves, and who, indeed, had much to learn from 
the Ethiopians through the Greeks." 

A turn or two took the young men to Russell 
Square, and soon they found themselves at Bedford 
Place. The darker man of the two produced a 
latch-key, and invited his companion to come in. 
There was nothing remarkable about the rooms 
except that they were furnished in the Oriental 
style. Here and there, at convenient corners, were 
divans with rich cushions, embroidered in silk, 


6 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


and carpets of leopard skins into which the feet 
sank as one walked. On the walls were trophies, 
consisting principally of African weapons. There 
were to be seen a collection of musical instruments 
of all descriptions, some so simple as to make one 
wonder how any symphony could be got out of 
them. A well-filled shelf, with a plain oak desk, 
littered with written matter, with some flowers 
here and there, about completed the outward cir- 
cumstance of the room into which our visitor was 
ushered. Pushing well forward the only easy 
chair in the room, and placing his friend in it 
with a smile of welcome, he threw himself upon a 
low seat beside him, touched a bell on a side table, 
and ordered some refreshment. 

" I hope you don't mind my old-world ways," 
remarked Kwamankra. " You know, though I 
have lived in this country fairly long, off and on, 
I like to sniff a bit of the African air somehow 
where'er I go." 

" That is perfectly natural, at least with a 
well-balanced mind," correcting himself, said 
Whitely; " but what I can't understand is that 
you don't seem a bit Eastern in your methods of 
work. To judge from that pile yonder," eyeing 
the notes mischievously, " one wouldn't think you: 
were over here for a holiday." 

" Oh, that is only a bit of derivative work. 


AN ETHIOPIAN CONSERVATIVE. 


7 


You have no idea how interesting it is. Would 
you like to see what I am doing? " 

" How good of you ! I should be delighted." 

" I shall soon be finishing now," said 
Kwamankra excitedly. " You see I am at the 
letter ' Y.' And that reminds me : you remember 
a while ago my taking you to task over the feeble- 
ness of the idea of ' God ' in the Anglo-Saxon 
language. I have just got the corresponding word 
here in F anti. It is a big word, so big that you 
can hardly manage it : — 


Nyiakropon. 

Does it convey any meaning to you ? How can 
it? And yet, I can assure you, my friend, it is 
no mere barbarous jargon. It is the combination 
of distinct root ideas in one word. It relates back 
to the beginning of all things visible, and links 
the intelligent part of man with the great Intelli- 
gence of the universe. Breaking up the word into 
its component parts, as I have done, we have : — 

Nyia nulzu ara oye yon. That is, 

He who alone is great." 

' ' How very suggestive. Who should have 
thought it?" observed Whitely, enthusiastically. 

" Well, let us take the next word, then, 


8 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Nyami, 

which is still more suggestive, and analyse it. 
Broken up, it stands in bold relief thus : — 

Nyia oye emi. That is, 

He who is lam. 

Now compare the Hebrew lam hath sent me, and 
you have it. Nor is this a fanciful play upon 
roots, for our people sing unto this day : 

' Wana si onyx Nyami se ? 

Dasayi wo ho inde, ohina na onyi, 

Nyami fi.ri tsitsi Jcaisi odumankuma .' 

meaning : 

' Who says he is equal with God ? 

Man is to-day, to-morrow he is not, 
lam is from eternity to eternity. ' 

"You can now understand," continued Kwa- 
mankra in a low, sad tone, " why your difficulty 
surprised me. But now that I come to think of it, 
it may be due to the limitations of your language." 
" After what you have just shown me, I must 
confess there is a deal in what you say ; and some- 
how you Orientals manage to keep your hold on 
the eternal verities, where we flounder and are 
lost." 

"Pardon me, my good friend, not quite that. As 
yet you are only drifting, drifting, drifting away 


AN ETHIOPIAN CONSERVATIVE. 


9 


from the ancient moorings that you Westerners 
built in sand. Jesus Christ came from the East. 
In Bethlehem he was born, and in Egypt was he 
nurtured; and, yet, you seek to teach Him us. We 
have caught His Spirit and live; you follow the 
letter and are tossed hither and thither by every 
wind. Forgive me when I say that the future of 
the world is with the East. The nation that can, 
in the next century, show the greatest output of 
spiritual strength, that is the nation that shall 
lead the world, and as Buddha from Africa taught 
Asia, so may Africa again lead the way." 

"Iam not prepared to dispute the matter with 
you, Kwamankra, and there seems to be a good 
deal of truth in what you say; but how about the 
doubt deep down in my own heart? That is a 
personal affair, you know. In a word, what think 
you of the Christ? " 

" What a clever dialectician you are, Whitely, 
to be sure? If I did not know you so well, I 
would hardly think you were serious. You throw 
back to me the question I put to you a while ago, 
and you lay upon me the burden of solving my 
own riddle." 

Whitely's voice was low and sad with a sus- 
picion of emotion in his whole manner, as he said : 
"Forgive me , Kwamankra, if I have seemed 
flippant; I was never more serious in my life. I 

B 


i 


10 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


have arrived at a crisis in my career which may 
mean disaster at any moment; and, what is more, 
until this day I have never had the courage to 
speak it out to any of my friends for fear they 
would mock at my doubts." 

Kwamankra turned upon his friend a look full 
of penetration and sympathy; and, for the 
moment, Whitely felt uneasy under the searching 
glance of the Eastern student. It seemed to him 
as if in that instant Kwamankra had probed his 
inner nature and found it shallow. 

" According to our ideas, Whitely, one broad 
divinity runs through humanity, and whether we 
are gods, or we are men, depends upon how far we 
have given way to the divine influence operating 
upon our humanity; and, comparing one system 
with another, I must confess there was in the man 
Christ Jesus a greater share of divinity than in 
any teacher before or after Him, and that was in 
my mind when I was wondering what Marcus 
Aurelius had in common with Jesus Christ." 

££ But tell me, Whitely, supposing Jesus Christ 
had been born of an Ethiopian woman instead of 
Mary of the line of David, do you think it would 
have made any difference, in the way he influenced 
mankind? " 

££ What a strange question," returned Whitely; 
"our Lord born of an Ethiopian woman?" — 


AN ETHIOPIAN CONSERVATIVE. 


11 


forgetting his doubts for the moment — " What- 
ever put such an idea into your head ? I am sure 
you are the first man who has given expression to 
such a thought." 

" Yes, it is strange " — and there was a vibra- 
tion of the intensest pathos in Kwamankra's voice 
— " that an African should venture to think that 
the Holy One of God might have been born of his 
race. I can easily interpret your thoughts; but, 
tell me, what is there extraordinary in the idea ? 5 ' 

" Oh, I don't know. Habits of thought, con- 
vention, and all that sort of thing, I suppose. 
And yet I am hardly qualified to speak upon these 
things," said Whitely, softening. 

He rose to go. He was due farther west to see 
his people. Before leaving, he laid a hand on 
Kwamankra's shoulder, and looking gravely into 
his face, he said : " It is a pity, Kwamankra, I 
did not meet you a little earlier in my career. 
But even now, it may not be too late. Good-bye ! 
Mind you meet me at Liverpool Street Station 
before the hour for the night train up. Good- 
bye!" 


12 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


CHAPTER II. 

Sowing the Wind. 

Silence prevailed in the room, except for the 
stitch, stitch, stitch, of a woman past the early 
bloom of womanhood who, at first stitching merely 
to pass away the time, now thrust the needle 
viciously into the embroidery, as if bent upon 
drawing some secret from the heart of the silken 
cords of life. 

Presently she began to cry — hot burning tears 
which flowed from the passion of a heart which 
sought for rest and found none. 

The curtains were down, and, save a glowing 
fire which a young student kept poking for no 
reason at all, the atmosphere of the room, as far 
as these two souls were concerned, was in strange 
keeping with the fog outside. They were man 
and wife, these two, at least before God. Of his 
own free will he had made love to her in far away 
Africa, and she had responded. But that was 
years ago. She, then, a buxom, lively lass, he an 
intelligent youth of the National University. She, 
now in England, only a nurse-maid ; he a successf *1 


SOWING THE WIND. 


13 


student, equipped and ready to carry all the world 
before him. Yes, they were man and wife, these 
two ; yet were they both ill at ease, and the young 
man would have willingly trusted himself to the 
tender mercies of the London fog. Yet he could 
not go. It was the law of compensation. He 
was fairly caught in his own meshes, and fate 
called upon him to face the music. 

To do Tandor-Kuma justice, for that was the 
youth's name, he had always intended to remain 
steadfast in his promise to Ekuba. But now the 
circumstances were changed, and he was doing his 
best to grapple with a most difficult situation. 
How could he, a professional man, used to all the 
luxuries of English life and habit, take back with 
him to start a career in Africa a nurse-maid? 
And what would he do, if asked to Government 
house? Thoughts such as these passed through 
his mind and made him obdurate to the pleading 
of the woman at his feet. 

" If you cry again, Ekuba, I shall leave you. 
You know it is too bad when I am doing all my 
best to amuse you in this horribly depressing 
weather." 

" Oh, you needn't trouble about that, Tandor- 
Kuma. I know you will leave me in any event. 
You don't think I have lived all these years 
without knowing what you men are. You press 


14 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


weak women into your service, and when you have 
won their sympathy, for a dream you toss them 
away like this," viciously kicking at the rug 
before the fire. 

" Now, Ekuba, try and be reasonable. You 
mustn't think I am going to desert you. Bad as 
we men are, we have our ideals, and we never rest 
until we realise them." 

' ' Good ! That beats all the cant I have ever 
heard ! What is the next, pray ? And women 
have no ideals, of course ! Uncultured women do 
not feel, do not think ! They are just like clay 
in the hands of you men to mould — to make or 
mar." 

" Now you are getting angry. Let us discuss 
this matter dispassionately." 

Instead of that, Ekuba burst into a paroxysm 
of grief which Tandor-Kuma found it hard to 
control. By degrees, she grew calmer, and, stick- 
ing a pin or two in her head-gear, she snatched 
up her wraps and stood ready to depart. 

" Tandor-Kuma," she said, " you have your 
ideals, and I have mine. Let us part like friends. 
I shall not give you the opportunity of dismissing 
me like a cur. Good-bye, for the present! It 
may be we shall meet again." And before the 
young student could frame a suitable answer, 
Ekuba was gone. 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


15 


CHAPTER III. 

Love and Life. 

1 . 

The Mfantsipim National University had, about 
the time that these studies open, been already 
doing good work in Fanti-land. It had its origin 
in the national movement which swept over the 
country in the stormy days of 1897, when the 
people, as if moved by a sudden impulse, rallied 
round the Aborigines Society and successfully 
established the principle of land tenure under 
which the country has since thriven. 

It had been felt for a long time by men of light 
and leading in Fanti-land that the salvation of 
the people depended upon education ; that to 
educate the youths of the country properly 
depended upon trained teachers; and that it was 
the work of a university to provide such training 
ground. 

The people did not wait for endowments from 
the rich and the philanthropic, or for money- 
making syndicates to start the work; but quickly 


16 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


collecting a few enthusiastic young men, these 
went about from province to province and from 
village to village trying to instil into the 
commonalty what the country lost by the neglect 
of education. The people began to understand 
and to talk about the matter in the wayside places. 
So that when Jubilee Day came round, and from 
province to province throughout all the states of 
Fanti-land the gong-gong of the Amanliin went 
round for contribution by the people to the 
National Educational Fund, great was the enthu- 
siasm of high and low, and there was not a hamlet 
throughout the land which did not send its fair 
share of contribution. Even the children threw 
into the Kruba in the market places their three- 
penny-bits. 

Among the enthusiastic band who canvassed 
the educational question was Kwamankra, and 
none more ardently than he. He was a man of 
remarkable intelligence, who, receiving the best 
education the schools of those days could afford, 
had, by hard work and natural taste for book- 
learning, so impressed the community with his 
ability that at the age of nineteen he had been 
entrusted with the editorship of the national news- 
paper, and had already come to be regarded as 
one of the coming leaders of the people. 

Upon the opening of the National University, 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


17 


Ivwamankra gave up newspaper work and joined 
the University staff. He was foremost in bringing 
forward schemes to prevent the work of the Uni- 
versity becoming a mere foreign imitation. He 
kept constantly before the Committee from the 
first the fact that no people could despise its own 
language, customs, and institutions and hope to 
avoid national death. For that reason the dis- 
tinctive garb of students, male and female, was 
national with an adaptability suggestive of the 
advanced state of society. It was recognised that 
the best part of the teaching must be done in the 
people's own language, and soon several text- 
books of known authority had, with the kind per- 
mission of authors and publishers, been translated 
into Fanti, thereby making the progress of the 
student rapid and sound. 

The scheme involved, as it has been shown, the 
turning out of efficient teachers, and as the Uni- 
versity was affiliated to that of London and in 
working correspondence with some of the best 
teaching institutions in Japan, England, Ger- 
many, and America, the work done was thorough. 
A young man or woman obtaining a certificate as 
a trained teacher was sure of work in any part of 
the country at a recognised salary. Upon arriving 
in a province, all that the teacher would have to 
do would be to present his credentials to the 


18 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Secretary for Education of the Omanhin, who, 
having a list of districts ready for a teacher, 
would at once introduce the new-comer. Generally 
he would find a suitable school house with all 
necessary appliances, but not the children; and 
he would be given to understand by the Committee 
that whether the school house remained empty or 
filled depended upon his own energy and the 
interest he brought into his work, and, what was 
more, his rise to the maximum stipend would be 
the result of the maximum success expected. As 
a rule, the teachers were men who had their heart 
in their work, and the filling of the schools was a 
matter of two or three months. 

The thirst for knowledge spread so rapidly that 
men and women took to attending night schools 
where they quickly picked up reading and writing 
in their own language, and such was the general 
eagerness for learning that translation work had 
become a distinct feature of the work of the Uni- 
versity. Hence at the time that we made the 
acquaintance of Kwamankra, he was engaged upon 
derivative work in London. His health having 
given way somewhat as the result of excessively 
hard work, he had been recommended to go away 
for a bit, and taking advantage of the oppor- 
tunity , he had visited Japan, Germany, and 
America to study their methods, winding up, as 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


19 


he planned out in his own mind, with a visit to 
England. 

By this time the outlook of Kwamankra upon 
life was broadening; and the young man was 
beginning to cast in his mind the most useful 
avenue by which his life's work could be best 
accomplished. While he thought upon these 
things, that Divinity which shapes our ends, 
whether we understand or no, was shaping matters 
in a way for Kwamankra that he could hardly 
anticipate. By a resolution of the University 
authorities, while in London, an offer came to him 
to continue his stay for a period of three years 
certain, for the purpose of superintending the 
publications of several standard works in the 
vernacular that the University had arranged to 
bring out. When the offer came, he at once closed 
with it, seeing therein a way to the fixing of his 
future career. And so the die was cast. Having 
private means of his own, he joined the University 
of Cambridge, read jurisprudence for a year, and 
having then joined the Inner Temple, had, at the 
time that we met him along Tottenham Court Road 
in the company of Whitely, settled down in 
London to read law in grim earnest. 

2. 

In the far-away home in Africa, where 


20 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Kwamankra was born and bred, he had known 
a little orphan girl who attracted attention 
wherever she went by her simple, unaffected ways. 
She must have been under the ministration of some 
guardian angel, for if ever a person grew in favour 
with the gods and men, it was she. Daily she was 
to be seen in the temples of Nanamu, and no one 
was more attentive, or worried the old priest 
afterwards with such knotty questions. She was 
born well, and, having passed through a course in 
the University, was now visiting Europe for the 
first time to put the finishing touches to her 
education. 

When Whitely parted with Kwamankra, the 
latter made his way to Holborn and wandered 
aimlessly down Oxford Street, his mind full of 
varied thoughts. He had always been a thinker, 
and this morning in his conversation with Whitely 
fresh avenues of thought had opened up in his 
mind which he wished to pursue undisturbed. 
As he watched the mighty procession of men, 
women, and children jostling one another, he was 
overwhelmed with a sense of the weariness which 
European civilisation had evolved for itself. But 
it was of the teaching of the Christian philosophy 
and its paradoxes that his mind was full. Was 
it not the Nazarene who said : " Come unto me all 
ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


21 


you rest " ? Had he given this people, who pro- 
fessed to be his followers, rest in their constant 
attempt to overreach one another, in the way they 
trampled upon one another unto fame and 
fortune? Again, he had called all his followers 
brethren, and was not his the injunction to go 
forth and teach all nations that all might be 
brethren? And, even now, the words of Silas 
t Whitely, Divinity scholar of Queen's : " What a 
strange question ! Our Lord born of an Ethiopian 
woman!" — again rang in his ears. What if 
bishops, prelates, in the direct line of Him, Who 
made Himself of no reputation, felt the same, and 
yet dared to propagate his gospel among the 
Ethiopian Gentiles ? Were there to be paradoxes 
all the way through? A religion which taught 
one thing, and practised another, was it worth 
following? And in his inmost heart he found 
himself thanking the gods that he was a poor 
benighted pagan according to the formula of the 
Church. 

In the frame of mind in which Kwamankra 
was, he was in no temper to be disturbed; but as 
luck would have it, he had not gone far when he 
saw coming towards him a dark man, known 
among his fellows as the Professor. He professed 
all things, and knew nothing in particular. He 
was in reality Kwow Ayensu, a student of several 


22 


ETHIOPIA. UNBOUND. 


years' standing at the Charing Cross Hospital, to 
whom, as far as one could judge, the question of 
a medical or a surgical diploma was of a secondary 
consideration. Kwamankra dodged the Pro- 
fessor, and made for the opposite pavement. The 
Professor as promptly crossed over, and familiarly 
tapping him on the shoulder, said in a gruff voice, 
" Hallo ! old fellow, how are you ? I have not seen 
you for quite an age ; and what is the meaning of 
cutting an old chum like this, eh? " 

Evidently there was no getting away from the 
Professor, and so Kwamankra resigned himself to 
his fate. 

" The fact is," said Kwamankra, " if you want 
me to be frank with you, I wanted to be alone. I 
was so enjoying myself before you interrupted me. 
I love to observe without being observed." 

" Do you include in your observations that of 
humanity in general ?" dryly put in the Professor. 

" Yes," replied Kwamankra. " To me it is the 
most interesting study, and the best theatre I find 
to be these very pavements, the performers being 
the moving throng of men and women. To study 
humanity in this guise is to me the acme of intel- 
lectual pastime, and much as I would like a chat 
with you another time, I am really sorry you 
disturbed me." 

" Your case," said the Professor, " is a simple 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


23 


one of cerebral contraction of the sympathies. 
Come with me, old boy, to the Argyle Rooms to- 
night, and I warrant you the finest study of 
humanity anywhere in London. You may notice 
without being noticed, and if you should feel 
inclined to thaw, by Jove ! you will have your work 
cut out. Some of the latest arrivals are rare bits, 
and they are the rage of all the young hounds, 
misnamed men. Do come with me." 

' ' I thank you for the kind invitation, but I am 
afraid I cannot come to the Argyle Rooms with 
you to-night, as I must catch the night train to 
Cambridge with a friend." 

" Well, then, come with me to the York Hotel 
instead. It may be I shall be able to interest you, 
and, if you please, you may stand me a treat after. 
I hear some of you 'varsity chaps are very good 
that way. Your average rusty London student 
does not understand champagne suppers and that 
kind of thing." 

If it comes to that, Professor, we needn't go 
all the way to the York Hotel. We can just drop 
in at Slater's round the corner, and I will warrant 
you as good a lunch as you ever tasted. Come 
along now. I will take no refusal." 

It did not take much to persuade the Professor, 
and together they were soon seated at a well- 
appointed table in a comfortable corner. After 


24 : 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


lunch the Professor said to Kwamankra, " One 
good turn deserves another. I thought I would 
give you a bit of a surprise, but since the mountain 
would not come to Mahomet, I suppose he must go 
to it. The fact is, Mansa is in London, and is 
staying at the York Hotel with her father." 

3 . 

When Kwamankra called at the hotel the next 
day to pay his respects he was surprised to learn 
that, an hour or so previously, Mansa and her 
father had taken the train for Harwich on their 
way to the Continent. The girl had always 
expressed a desire to see the principal countries of 
Europe, and as her father had a little business in 
the south of Germany, she had coaxed him, on the 
plea that it yet wanted a fortnight before she 
would be due to enter college, to take her with him. 
So pleased she was with her German surround- 
ings, that when her father was returning to 
London, she was loth to come with him ; and as she 
had always shown a decided inclination for music, 
it had been decided she should remain at school 
there for a year or two to pursue her studies. 

Time passed and Kwamankra had no news of 
Mansa. All the Professor could tell him was that 
her father had returned to Africa, and the young 
lady was pursuing her studies on the Continent. 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


25 


In the meanwhile, Kwamankra was quietly- 
reading in the Temple. They were eventful 
years — those three short years in the heart of the 
metropolis. The science of jurisprudence had 
always attracted him. It opened to him vistas of 
justice and fair play between man and man, which 
strongly appealed to him. The influence of the 
stoical writings over the Roman jurists, producing 
a Law of Nations, showed him a way by which the 
nations of the earth, yielding to higher impulses, 
might mete out justice to the weak races of man- 
kind. Moreover, the opportunity which it gave 
him of comparing the institutions and customs of 
his own country with other systems was an endless 
source of delight to him. Now was his oppor- 
tunity to fit himself for the battle of life. He 
read, not for examinations, but for information. 
He drank freely from the vital springs of know- 
ledge and found his soul satisfied. He could not 
help feeling that he had a call to duty, and that in 
the service of his race. 

At the time of Kwamankra being called to the 
Bar he had invited to London for a day his friend 
.Whitely. After the ceremony they repaired to 
the Haymarket to hear Mr. Beerbohm Tree in the 
part of Hamlet. As the curtain did not rise till 
8.30, and the evening was particularly fine, they 
walked down to the theatre from the Temple, and 

c 


26 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the conversation naturally turned upon Shake- 
speare's masterpiece. 

" You know, Kwamankra, I have never for- 
gotten the conversation you and I had three 
winters ago along Tottenham Court Road, and I 
have been going deeply into the matter. I have 
been comparing the worship of Osiris by the 
Egyptians of your own race, the Akkadian 
philosophy, the religions of Zoroaster, of Buddha, 
and of Confucius, the teachings of the Greek mys- 
teries, and of the stoic writings, and the farther 
I have gone into the matter the more puzzled I 
have become as to the right of the people calling 
themselves Christians to a monopoly of divine 
light. And as to the term c heathen,' I think it 
arrogant for any devotee of any one sect to apply 
it to another. There is as much sense in it as the 
ancient Greeks dubbing all others barbarians. 
Here we are to-night, for instance, going to hear 
a play written by one William Shakespeare, a 
Christian gentleman, who flourished in the reign 
of Queen Elizabeth. I dare say if I stood in the 
pit of the Haymarket to-night, and made an open 
statement that William Shakespeare was a gentle- 
man, but I had my doubts as to whether he was 
a Christian, I would be hooted down and hissed 
out of the theatre. Yet a superficial reading of 
some of his works will convince you that his senti- 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


27 


ments, if he wrote from his inmost self, which he 
must have done, great poet as he was, were far 
from those of a Christian. See how Hamlet nurses 
in his bosom a feeling of revenge so poignant as to 
find satisfaction in killing the wicked king only at 
a moment when he will fall with all his sins upon 
his head. It reads like the work of a heathen, and 
yet I dare not suggest that William Shakespeare 
was a heathen at heart. 5 ' 

Kwamankra burst into a hearty laugh. 

" Unless you have read Jevon to little purpose, 
you must admit that that argument is faulty. Yet 
I cannot help agreeing with you that the word 
* heathen 5 is a relative term, and perhaps your 
average Englishman has no right to call the 
average Ethiopian heathen. Ours was the cradle 
of civilisation, and that it had not the permanence 
that the Christian civilisation is likely to have 
does not make it any the less a civilisation ; and I, 
for one, feel nothing but pity for the kind of ignor- 
ance which scoffs at what it does not understand." 
The speaker stopped somewhat abruptly, and 
eyed the listener curiously. After a second, he 
continued : 

" You know perfectly well, my good friend, that 
I am not a Christian. If not, what am I ? Per- 
haps delicacy may forbid you saying what you 
think. But, believe me, I am not ashamed to bo 

c 2 


28 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


called pagan, or heathen, or by any other such pet 
word. With all due respect to St. Paul, we wor- 
ship that we do know. The fact of the case is, 
that from the days of the great teachers of Chris- 
tianity you Christians have not taken the trouble 
to understand any other system but your own." 

"You know, Kwamankra, turning off the sub- 
ject, I have taken my degree, and I am soon due 
for ordination," said Whitely. " But all these 
years the reason and the faith within me have been 
in such deadly conflict as to leave my senses reeling. 
Yet the die is cast ; I have given my name in to the 
Bishop ; I cannot look back for fear of breaking my 
mother's heart." 

" I am sorry for you, my dear friend," said 
Kwamankra, " but, perhaps, you don't look at the 
matter from the broad point of view that an out- 
sider can look at it. I know, of course, something 
of the religions of the past. I have studied our 
own Eastern systems and compared them with the 
system you Westerns have adopted, and find that 
one broad divinity as well as humanity runs 
through them all. You will grant, I think, that 
there was something that lifted man to God in all 
the systems you have named, and in others of 
which, as yet, you know nothing, and that some of 
the founders of these systems, such as Epictetus, 
Cleanthes, Buddha Gautama, were men whose 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


29 


* 

ideals of self-suppression and communion with 1 
God were of no mean order. I am free to say that 
there is a marked difference between them all and 
the Christ, as much as there is a difference 
between the stoical writings and the Gospel of St. ; 
John. Jesus Christ was a living, breathing, God- 
in-man personality, linking human son-ship with 
divine fatherhood. Buddha Gautama, for ex- 
ample, never truly realised his own son-ship with 
God as to reveal that relationship to man. He 
strove to pierce the secret of the universe, but never 
quite succeeded. Then as to reason and faith and 
the load of doubt — well, if you ask me whether the 
birth of Jesus Christ was a natural birth or a 
supernatural one, as an outsider, all I can say is, 
I don't know, nor does it matter one jot whether 
it was the one or the other. Similarly, if you ask 
me whether He did ascend into Heaven with His 
bodily form, defying the law of gravitation, I say 
I don't know, nor does it matter. But this I do 
know, that His life and work and His interpreta- 
tion of the ways of God with man may so draw 
one to Him as brother, friend, master, and, 
through Him, to God as Father, Almighty 
Sovereign, Benefactor and Guide, and that should 
be enough for the average man whose object is not 
arrogantly to question high Heaven, but to make 
his way thither humbly and piously,'^ 


30 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


When they arrived at the theatre the curtain 
was just up, and, for a moment, they were en- 
grossed in the simple setting of the play for which 
Mr. Beerbohm Tree is so remarkable in his Shake- 
spearean representations. In Scene III., where 
Polonius utters the precept : " Beware of entrance 
to a quarrel; but, being in, bear't that the opposed 
may beware of thee," Kwamankra, poking his 
friend in the rib, whispered, " That is Christian 
sentiment with a vengeance." 

When the curtain next went up, Whitely drew 
the attention of Kwamankra to a bevy of dark 
girls with an elderly man, who seemed to be play- 
ing the part of chaperon, and who were soon 
joined by a couple of young men. Kwamankra 
followed the direction indicated by Whitely, and 
nearly jumped out of his seat with excitement. 

" What is it, Kwamankra? " asked Whitely. 
" You generally are so cool." 

" Pardon me, but the fact is, I must introduce 
you at once. Those are my friends the Abans, and 
I am very much mistaken if the young lady at the 
corner is not Miss Mansa. Come along ! " And 
he literally dragged Whitely after him. 

The old gentleman saw the twain coming in 
their direction, and beamed all over with delight. 
He was a good-hearted soul, and loved to see the 
sons of Ethiopia acquit themselves honourably in 


LOVE AND LFIE. 


31 


a strange land, and he had heard nothing but what 
was good of Kwamankra. The enthusiasm with 
which Kwamankra was greeted by his friends 
struck Whitely forcibly, and he did not at all 
notice the few seconds that passed before he was 
introduced. 

During the interval, Mansa, who hated all 
crushes, preferred to remain where she was, so 
Kwamankra fetched her some refreshment, and 
stayed to talk to her. 

" So you deserted us for the Continent without 
a moment's notice. It was really bad of you, and 
I hope you have made up your mind now to make 
full amends." 

" Yes, I didn't like the life here," said Mansa. 
" Somehow it didn't suit me. Besides, I had no 
friends here, and as my father was going away, I 
felt I could not stay." 

" You must have found Stuttgart congenial, to 
judge from the length of time you have been away. 
Your father has been telling me a little about it, 
and I hoped to hear more from you.'' 

" Oh ! that must be another time. See, the 
curtain is about to rise, and here come trooping in 
the Abans. You know we arrived only this after- 
noon by the Dover train, and met the Abans at the 
hotel ; and as they were coming to see Hamlet, my 
father thought it would be nice for us to come with 
them." 


32 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


" Now, that reminds me, by a stroke of ill-luck, 
I arrived at your hotel the day you left for the 
Continent half an hour too late, to find the bird 
had flown." 

Mansa felt a little confused; and just then the 
curtain rose. 

The rest of the play interested Kwamankra 
little, and he was not at all sorry when cheer after 
cheer called Mr. Tree over and over again before 
the footlights to receive such an ovation as few 
artists have received before or since. 

" Mind you call before I leave for Africa," 
said the old gentleman, as Kwamankra and 
Whitely said good-night. 

The friends talked little on their way back to 
the Temple, and Whitely, divining what was pass- 
ing in his friend's mind, respected his silence. 
Before separating for the night, however, Whitely 
said, " Allow me, Kwamankra, to thank you for 
giving me such an agreeable evening in such a 
cultured company. Your friends, by Jove, are a 
credit to Africa, and it makes me feel inclined to 
lead a crusade against narrowness and prejudice." 

" Thank you so much. I am glad you think so 
well of my friends. I hope you will sleep well 
after all the day's dissipation." This, as 
Kwamankra showed his friend to his room. 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


33 


4 . 

For the next few weeks, Mansa and Kwamankra 
saw a good deal of one another. From the first, 
there was a congeniality between the two which 
went to make all intercourse natural, pleasant, and 
spontaneous. It was as if they had known one 
another all their lives; and it seemed the most 
natural thing that henceforth their joint lives 
should run in the same tenor. One day, as the 
twain sat chatting over an afternoon cup of tea, 
Mansa fetched a letter from a writing-table and, 
carelessly spreading it out, said : 

" I forgot to tell you, when last you were here, 
that I have been offered the post of head-mistress 
of the junior classes of our home university. I am 
sure you will be delighted with the idea, for I am 
going to accept it, and my father agrees with me." 
' ' How can you think of such a thing ? ' ' burst 
out Kwamankra almost indignantly. 

His manner was so sudden that Mansa could not 
possibly control herself. 

" Now, what have I done to call for such sharp 
treatment? " she demanded firmly, yet playfully. 

" Forgive me, Mansa, if I have spoken with un- 
wonted heat, only I was thinking — well, I was 
thinking you might teach me instead." 

' ' What an absurd idea ! How can I teach such 


34 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


a big, strapping fellow like you? " said Mansa. 
" Besides, you are so clever. Surely, you mock 
me." 

" Believe me, my dear child," and there was a 
slight tremor in the manly voice, " I was never 
more in earnest in my life." 

Mansa seemed puzzled. After a little hesita- 
tion, she said : 

"You call me ' child,' and yet you would have 
me believe that I can teach you. Can you be 
serious? " 

" Yes, I am quite serious. * And a little child 
shall lead them,' " he quoted. " I was hoping," 
pursued Kwamankra, " that yours would be the 
task to teach me the way of duty, and that, when 
found, you would help me to tread it." 

" But how do I know what your duty is ? t Who 
can tell better than yourself ? Moreover, the gods 
of our fathers can teach you it, if you need guid- 
ance. Don't you know that, Kwamankra? " 
"Yes, I know that. But this also I do know, 
that the gods are wont to make use of human in- 
struments in approaching men. The Infinite finds 
expression in the finite, and the ideal is realised in 
the actual. And it has often occurred to me that 
the child-like hand that shall guide me through 
life's labyrinthine ways is the self-same one that 
I now hold tenderly in my own." 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


She began to understand. She made an effort 
as if she would withdraw her hand. She hesi- 
tated, and the next moment she surrendered the 
other also. 

"You will be my teacher, then?" asked 
Kwamankra, half-persuasively, half-triumphantly. 

" Yes," she simply answered. " So may the 
gods of our race help me ! 5 ' 

As the days passed, the twain grew in that 
mutual understanding, the true basis of all happy 
unions. Now and again he would tell her of his 
prospects, which he laughingly said were nil, 
having inherited little else beyond a clear head 
and a willing heart for work, with which he hoped 
they would be able to forge their way in life 
together; to which Mansa would sweetly say that 
she wished she had a fortune to make things easy, 
but since she had it not, she would bring him the 
next best, a loyal heart and true, at which Kwa- 
mankra would chide her, and say that was the best 
of all. 

Little by little, Mansa told Kwamankra all that 
had happened in her little life since the days he 
knew her as a child of ten. 

" You know," she said, talking to him one day, 
" I often invoked Nanamu that I might be per- 
mitted to travel to see a little bit of the world, and 
it seemed they heard me ; for soon after, my father 


36 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


took it into his head to visit Europe with me after 
1 had successfully passed my examinations at our 
university. When we arrived here, the life of the 
people seemed to me artificial. Perhaps I could 
not have expressed my feeling then in those words, 
but, anyhow, I felt as if I was not in my proper 
element. Chance took me to Germany. I found 
things very different there — there, in the Black 
Forest, I got into direct touch with Nature; the 
song of the birds, the bleating of the lambs, the 
fragrance of the fields, all seemed so natural, and 
I said to myself : Here is my proper place; here 
the atmosphere wherein my nature may expand. 
iThe rest you know. And now, what think you of 
the result ? 5 ' 

For answer, Kwamankra caressingly drew her 
nearer to his side. 

Summer was waning into autumn, and the 
chrysanthemum and the sweet mignonette were in 
bloom, when the lovers decided upon marriage 
before returning to Africa, where Kwamankra 
was to start a practice. It was to be a simple 
affair, at which there were to be no bride' s-maids 
or groom's-men, and only the nearest friends were 
to be asked. Mansa appeared in church on the 
wedding-day in a simple African costume of her 
own design, tastefully got up, and when someone 
asked her the reason for her choice, she said she 


LOVE AND LIFE. 


37 


knew it would please her husband, and, besides, it 
answered best to her own conception of what was 
proper. And, " so, these were wed," to employ 
iTennyson's words. 

Kwamankra was not long in taking up the 
duties of life in grim earnest with his dear little 
wife to cheer and to comfort him. From the first 
success smiled upon them, either as the result of 
honest, strenuous effort, coupled with natural 
ability, or as a mark of the favour of the gods, or 
both. Gradually they built up a big practice, and 
by the time their little boy was able to toddle from 
room to room, and call "Fadder ! Mudder ! " they 
had a sweet little home of their own, with plenty 
of flowers, and sunshine, and love, and God's 
blessing. Five short, very short, happy years of 
mutual love and association, and then there came 
a cloud which, for the moment, seemed to Kwa- 
mankra' s breaking heart and tearful eyes without 
the silver lining; for, with the advent of their 
second born, a sweet baby girl, Mansa, poor wife 
and mother, paid with her life for that of her 
child, who, as though she could not stand the gloom 
she had brought to this once bright home, soon 
joined her mother, and made the former gloom 
twice gloomier, and father and son were alone 
with a twice two-fold bond of love between their 
souls and the souls of those that had gone before. 


38 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


And when his little boy of three asked Kwa- 
mankra : " Where is ' Mndder? 5 " or " Where is 
Sissie? " he would say : " ' Mudder ' is gone to 
God, or Sissie is gone to God," as the case might 
be, and would turn aside his face, lest his little 
one might know the full extent of their woe. 


CHAPTER IV. 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


" ' Fadder ,' when 1 was in Heaven, I couldn't come to 
you; hut 1 could go to * M udder. '¦ I was ivith ' M udder ' 
in Heaven ." 

" But why couldn't you come to mel " She hesitated. 

"See, ' Fadder,' 1 have put the pin through," holding 
up a match-box triumphantly . Then, presently, in baby 
fashion, taking up the idea — " 1 was a big girl in 
Heaven." 

" So you were, darling," and he bent doivn and kissed 
her tenderly. 

* * * * 

" Where the bird warbles earliest, and new light 
Wakes the first buds of spring; where breezes sleep 
Or sigh with pity half the summer night, 

While the pale, loving stars look down to iveep. 
There lies our grave; a slender plot of ground, 

' Tis all of earth we own; no cross, no tree, 

Nothing to mark it, but a little mound; 

But there my darling stays; she waits for me, 

The lily in her hand; and when 1 come, 

She will be glad to greet me, and will say, 

' Your lily, dearest, gives you welcome home,' 

But oh ! dear Lord, 1 hunger with delay; 

Tell me, blest Lord, shall I have long to wait ? 
For 1 must haste, or she tvill think me late." 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


41 


CHAPTER IV. 

Love and Death. 

1 . 

¦The newborn child opened her eyes upon a mys- 
terious world. In her little face was a puzzled 
look — a look of half doubt and half knowledge. 
There was one who seemed to understand the 
meaning of this doubting expression, and that was 
the father of the child. 

She had come in answer to prayer — in response 
to the call, long, earnest and pure of motive from 
mortal to a god, which the gods are wont to answer. 
Not that the father of the newborn child did not 
believe in God; but he was sure that in the hier- 
archy of the heavens, there was order and rule, and, 
even as the master-mind controlled subordinate 
intelligences, making them to do and to will of his 
good pleasure, so did the Father of all, call him 
NyiaJcropon, Zeus, Ra, Jupiter, or by what name 
soever you please, control the powers and 
dominions of other spheres and the agencies of 
this world. 

And so it had come to pass that for full twenty 
changes of the moon he had prayed fervently to 
the God of Love to visit him in his loneliness, and 
this child had come in response to that prayer. 

D 


42 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


But he had also prayed for light, for he knew, 
according to the teaching of Nanamu, the priests 
and prophets of his tribe, that Love and Light 
dwelt together in the highest heaven. 

2 . 

To him who saw this vision, the idea of death 
was familiar. Among his people, at break of day, 
as men passed one another in the market-places, 
they would greet one another and say, " A kioo," 
meaning, hail friend, thou yet livest. And if a 
man slept and woke no more, they would say he is 
gone to N anamu-Krome, and, if he had been a good 
man, his friends would make libation to him, 
claiming his protection and guardianship in the 
ordinary affairs of life. 

He had been a father once before — the happy 
husband of a happy wife in a home where love 
dwelt ; and when death first took the wife and then 
the new-born babe, he left darkness behind where 
first was light. It all looked so strange. He only 
half realised it in the first flush of his sorrow. 
But as the days wore on, and the old familiar chair 
by the hearth remained vacant, the darkness in his 
heart seemed to deepen. 

Gradually the light of understanding dawned 
upon his soul. He came to know that the spiritual 
side of love was of far greater value than all else 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


43 


beside, and read a spiritual meaning into the 
offices of love. Sorrow was the path that led him 
to the innermost shrine where he met God, the 
N yiakropon of his race, and understood. He 
could stand by the open grave of his beloved — 
open, because by spiritual sympathy he could see 
her as she was — and say : " I kiss these flowers ere 
I lay them on thy bosom; and when I say c I,' I do 
not mean this frail body of mine, which is but a 
casket. Hear me, beloved ! I mean the soul in 
me, that which can have and has communion with 
thee, soul with soul, and spirit with spirit, how it 
does not matter. See, I throw thee a spiritual kiss, 
and I know thou returnest kiss for kiss, even as of 
yore." Yes, he had touched the depths of human 
happiness and the depths of human sorrow, and 
had come to know that the way to God led from 
the one to the other. 


3 . 

The physical strain had been too much for 
Kwamankra. A lurking disease had begun to 
show dangerous symptoms. A hurried consulta- 
tion had resulted in the doctors deciding upon an 
operation. He received the news with wonderful 
calmness. He rejoiced secretly in the prospect of 
the unconscious condition of the senses through 
which he would pass, and hoped against hope that 

d 2 


44 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the intelligence of his nature, freed from earthly- 
trammels, might be free to concentrate themselves 
upon things spiritual, and given a glimpse of the 
city of the ancient dead of his race, where he was 
sure his beloved dwelt. It was a wish born of 
sincere anticipation which flew on the wings of 
prayer to the Father of Spirits. As he passed off, 
he was heard to murmur softly the name of his 
wife, but none knew that, like Jacob of the 
Hebrews, he had wrestled with God and prevailed. 

In another sphere, as if from a dream, Kwa- 
mankra awoke, and, though he possessed not his 
physical body, as it seemed to him, he was sure of 
his identity as ever he had been. He commanded 
the full use of his intelligence, and the scene 
around him, though weird, was by no means un- 
familiar. He had the feeling of one who, travel- 
ling to a far distant country, and, for the nonce, 
forgetting the physical aspects of his native land, 
upon returning, in a moment, recalls the old place 
again. But it was not without misgiving, as he 
gradually took in the scene around. It was at the 
outskirts of the city, not built by men, that he found 
himself. For walls the city was surrounded by a 
great lake whose water was as clear as crystal, to 
attempt to cross which were madness for a mortal 
without aid. 

As Kwamankra stood doubting within himself 
what he should do, and deploring the presumption 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


45 


which made him wish to encompass knowledge not 
destined for man, suddenly there appeared before 
him a being of such untoward mien that he was 
anxious to fly from his presence, if he only knew 
how. It had the aspect of a human being, but so 
distorted were the features, and so woebegone the 
expression, that he looked to all appearances half 
man and half beast. Finding no possible way of 
escape, Kwamankra took courage, and thus 
addressed himself to the monster : " Sir, I am a 
mortal from the nether sphere, which men call the 
earth, and, unbidden, I have sought to catch a 
glimpse of this glorious city which now I find it 
were death for mortal to enter unaided. Pardon 
my presumption, but tell me how I may gain en- 
trance into yonder city, where I may find her 
whom my soul loveth." 

" Thou hast well spoken in that thou hast 
mentioned the word £ love,' If truly thou art 
moved by love, then art thou not far from thy 
quest; and since thou hast uttered the password, I 
will tell thee the way, which lies in simple trust. 
Hear me and understand. I was a mortal like 
unto thyself. I was ambitious and arrogant. I 
hoped to scale high heaven by knowledge and by 
the work of man's imagination. I tried and 
failed, and I am what I am. The gods, in anger, 
bade me stay here and point to mortals the way to 
the city beyond, which I may not enter for full 


46 


ETHIOPIA. UNBOUND. 


thousand summers, as thou measurest time, until 
my iniquity be purged." 

" I do not understand thy speech," said Kwa- 
mankra. " If thou art minded to help me, tell me 
simply how I may cross over the lake, and win my 
way to the glorious avenues beyond ? 5 5 

" Did I not tell thee that the way lies in mere 
trust ? I have very little to add. Examine thine 
own heart, and if there is aught in it that is not 
sincere and true, thou mayest not enter in." 

Then, suddenly, Kwamankra bethought him how 
in the temples of his native land, he was wont to 
bow the knee to the God of Love. So, all else for- 
getting, bending the full force of his will to the 
task, even on the banks of this impassable lake, he 
knelt in fervent prayer that he might have 
courage to cross over. And as he prayed he 
seemed to enter into a trance, gradually losing con- 
sciousness of his immediate surroundings. When 
he awoke there stood before him a beautiful youth, 
clothed in a raiment of the fineness of gossamer, 
which fell in graceful folds about his person. His 
feet were encased in sandals of crystaline trans- 
parency, and his head encircled with a chaplet of 
lilies of the valley. 

Kwamankra was about to speak, but the vision 
raised his forefinger to his lips in token of silence, 
and then in a voice full of pathos and sympathy 
said, ' ' Mortal ! thy prayer to the God of Love and 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


47 


Light hath been heard, and thy homage of love 
and trust met with favour, and I am bidden to lead 
thee across into yonder beautiful city; but, remem- 
ber thou, that it is only so long as thy courage doth 
not fail, that thou canst safely cross over, that 
being the bridge over which mortals may enter. 
But fear not; thy love hath broken asunder the 
gates of death, and none may bar thy progress." 
Thus listening, Kwamankra suddenly found 
himself walking on the face of the crystal lake, 
and his companion with him. And when his heart 
began to fail him, he thought of his beloved, and 
took courage. Now and again he would seem to 
be sinking, only to rise again buoyant on the wings 
of confidence renewed; and soon the crystal lake 
was passed. There the vision left him, telling 
him his mission was ended, and he wot not what to 
do. 


4 . 

While in this state of uncertainty, Kwamankra 
heard distant echoes of children's voices, so melo- 
dious was the strain, and, in harmony, far beyond 
aught he had ever heard. He strained his senses 
to hear more, and as the voices drew nearer, he was 
seized with a sudden wish to behold the beings 
from whom those sweet cadences proceeded. And 
that he might see unseen, he hid himself amidst 


48 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the flowers which grew in rich profusion outside 
the city walls. 

He had hardly done so, when io ! there came 
trooping past a procession of young children, with 
palms in their hands, which they wrnved aloft, as 
they sang, and the burden of their song was : 
"Come, let us go to the Father's house; this day 
he bringeth his children joy; the sun of salvation 
is setting fast." So sweetly simple were these 
children, and the only thing striking about them 
was the purity of their countenances and the lofty 
grace with which they carried themselves. Kwa- 
mankra greatly wondered when he recalled to 
mind the angelic presence which had a while ago 
left him. As the procession neared the city, the 
company seemed to break into little groups, and 
to disperse in different directions. They played 1 
and gambolled and made fun, and, in all, there was 
nothing fantastic or weird — so intensely human 
w r ere these children of the air. 

In the meanwhile, the keeper of the gate had 
hied him into the city, even to that part thereof 
which faces the rising sun, where a goddess dwelt. 
Thus the keeper of the gate addressed her, bowing 
low : ' ' Honoured among women ! I am bidden 
by Nyicikropon, the father of the gods, to bring 
thee news of the coming of a mortal into the holy 
city of Nanamu. Since thou art a goddess, thou 
must know that since thy translation from nether 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


49 


earth', he whom thy woman's heart prizeth' above 
all honour and glory hath constantly set himself 
to purifying his heart and his ways, if haply he 
may find the way to thee; and since he is faithful, 
the constant desire of his heart, forced on the 
breath of fervent supplications, hath pierced the 
heaven of heavens and reached the ears of 
Nyiakropon, wherefore it hath been decreed that 
thou, honoured among women, should be the first 
goddess in Nanamu-Krome to receive a mortal who 
hath won his way to the holy gates. Arise, shake 
of! thy grief, and prepare to receive him whom 
thy soul loveth." 

Him gratefully hearing, the goddess Mansa 
arose, and commanded the maidens to get all 
things ready, so that her coming Lord might not 
feel strange in the city of the immortals. And 
with music and with frolic did Katsina, her 
little daughter, superintend all. As for Mansa 
herself, to the house of praise did she proceed, and, 
out of the fullness of her heart, did give thanks to 
Nyiakropon. Before the holy altar she knelt, and 
raising her heart in thanksgiving, the emotion of 
her heart so overcame her, that she wot not how 
to begin, or how to end her thanksgiving. 

And wherefore was the goddess moved, and 
whence the emotion of her heart ! Scarcely could 
she veil from memory an earthly scene of un- 
paralleled pathos and solemnity, as the hour of 


50 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


parting came. It was the last day of the fever 
which burnt out her earthly life. There, in the 
old familiar chamber, in the home where dwelt 
love and light and all that she then, untutored, 
prized dearest in heaven or on earth, stood hus- 
band and child — their first born, bone of their 
bone, flesh of their flesh, so full of promise. She 
knew her hour had come, and she must needs die, 
and her little woman's heart rebelled against the 
decree of the gods. An inward struggle seemed 
to be going on within her at that critical moment. 
At last she was heard to ejaculate : " Oh, God, 
see where stand my husband and my child. I 
cannot bear to see their grief-stricken faces. If 
it be Thy will, spare me to them. But, if not, 
not as I will, but as it seemeth good to Thee." 
It was a bitter struggle — this struggle of the heart — 
if haply it might secure its dearest wish against 
the decree of heaven. But she was sincere in 
giving Nyiakropon the choice. She had fought 
and won, and the highest heaven had sealed the 
victory. Thus the passing away of Mansa. As 
for Kwamankra, hope ever more sprang up youth- 
ful in his heart. Over and over again he found 
himself wondering whether his beloved was truly 
dead, or dead only to his physical senses. And, 
confidence renewed, evermore building upon 
adamantine foundations, wafted a vow to heaven 
that his one quest would be to learn the way to 
her. 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


51 


5 . 

" Katsina, mine," said the Goddess Mansa, " I 
want you to attend to what I am about to say. 
Ever since you came to me in answer to my tender 
call, I have taught you that but a thin veil divides 
N cinamu-Krome from the nether world where thy 
father and brother dwell, and that the veil is 
drawn, whenever it pleaseth heaven, for converse 
between immortals and men. This day shalt thou 
see thy father, for, even now, he is within the 
city walls at the main gate. Go, bid him welcome 
to Nanamu-Krome, for I may not go to him yet. 
Joyously did the maiden saunter forth to do her 
mother's behest, and, even at the main gate, as she 
had been forewarned, she met her father to whom 
she said, ' ' Hail, father ! Mother hath sent me 
to welcome thee home." At this Kwamankra was 
startled beyond measure, but, not wishing to betray 
his bewilderment, he said, " I do not understand, 
little maid; pray, who may thy mother be, and 
how knew she that I was here ? ' ' 

Do you not know me, father ? ' ' said the damsel, 
half reproachfully. Mother told me you were 
coming, and so I ran to meet thee; but how she 
knew you were here she did not tell me. But, you 
know, mother is a goddess, and she knows a good 
many things." The saying surprised Kwamankra, 


52 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


and he turned it over in his mind what it might 
mean. Was it possible that the devotion and the 
trust and the love of his girl-wife had blossomed 
into a personality which was half god and half 
human even in the nether world ? The case of his 
little girl was easy to understand, for he had 
caught the import of the words of the poet who 
wrote : 

" Day after day we tliink of what she is doing 
In those bright realms of air; 

Tear after year, her tender steps pursuing, 

Behold her grown more fair." 

Yes, she was fairer than the lilies, brighter than 
the sunbeams, purer than snow-flakes — his own 
little Katsina in this realm of light, and yet he 
had prayed for her return. For a moment he 
was lost in thought, then suddenly turning to his 
little girl, he embraced her with all the warmth of 
a father's heart, and eager to learn all he might 
of his girl-wife, he said, " Tell me, dear, what 
may a goddess be like ? ' ' 

" How funny, father, what am I like? Have 
I not hands and feet and lips to return kiss for 
kiss? " And suiting the action to her words, she 
covered the bent face of Kwamankra with kisses. 
Even as the home-sick traveller, returning to his 
native shore, suddenly recalls distant echoes of 
the past, so did Kwamankra begin to catch 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


53 


glimpses and to recall impressions of the sacred 
abodes of N anamu-Krome . It seemed to him, as 
if in some bygone age from this self-same abode 
of the ancient dead, the gods had sent him on an 
errand to mortals. Even as he thought, the 
impression deepened in his mind, that one day 
the gods had said to him : " Kwamankra, this day 
we send thee forth into the nether sphere to be 
for us a witness unto the truth; for mortals are 
ever wont to go away from the truth, whereupon 
we gods are ready to destroy them. Go, as a 
thinker among the thoughtless, convince them of 
their error, proclaim unto them the sovereignty 
of truth and the eternal majesty of Nyiakrapon, 
the god of truth." It seemed to him that in 
obedience to this call, he had gone forth, full of 
courage, full of zeal, resolved to obey the command 
of the gods; and lo"! before his work was half 
done, here he was, as it were in a dream, back to 
N anamu-Krome. He shuddered as he thought 
upon these things, and greatly feared lest he had 
stirred up the anger of the gods against himself 
by leaving undone his duty. What would he have 
to say to his wife upon meeting her this very day ! 

Meanwhile, his little daughter poured into his 
ear, child-like fashion, the story of the abodes of 
the ancient dead. But with all her childish ways, 
there was something remarkable in the way she 
put things. A turn or two soon took them to the 


54 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


principal highway of the city of the immortals; 
and here there burst upon his view a scene which 
filled him with awe and curiosity. It was simple, 
yet majestic, ethereal yet earthly; and one feeling 
uppermost in him was that he had seen the like 
before in some forgotten age. For a busy, noisy 
thoroughfare with a multitude of men hurrying 
hither and thither, here were, as it seemed, a 
number of peaceful avenues, wearing a beautiful 
green, like unto moss, which met in one grand 
broadway. Each avenue was edged with luxuriant 
shrubs and plants whose leaves showed the most 
delicate tints of the rainbow in beautiful blend. 
Here and there lifted their sinewy arms giants of 
the forest not unlike the cedars of Lebanon. The 
different walks seemed designed with an eye to 
quiet contemplation. Now and again the avenues 
ended abruptly in an ingeniously laid-out garden 
from which again avenues continued to the 
broadway. Here and there burst into view magnifi- 
cent temples. The temples, as Katsina took pains 
to explain to her father, had been raised by 
immortal hands, not for prayer, but for praise. 
A service of praise was just ending, as the twain 
arrived at the portals of a beautiful temple, and 
presently the avenues teemed with a moving 
throng, but with all the congregation, there was 
neither hurry nor bustle. The men were robed in 
a kind of loose garment over which was thrown 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


55 


in graceful folds across the left shoulder a 
raiment of the softest material, crimson in colour. 
They wore sandals on their feet and garlands of 
red roses and lilies intertwined around their 
heads. The crimson shade of their apparels 
showed that they had passed through the narrow 
gate of sacrifice; the roses in their chaplets were 
for a token that over the bridge of sorrow they had 
passed into the joy of N anamu-Krome ; and as for 
the lilies they merely pointed to the truth that 
humility becometh well the triumphant. Sandals 
they wore, because they had borne the heat and 
the burden of the day, for full oft in the Sahara 
of life they had had occasion to cry : — 

Ehwan yi owari, N y iakrapon 
Whe bra ma ahedzi yina atsitsiwu, 

Na minan aprepra, mutu ontu! 

Naasu wuada na mayi da wayim, 

Ga'm Kwan, Nyiakra pan ! 

meaning : 

The way is long, Nyiakra pon, 

Behold the torn and scattered garment, 

And the bleeding feet that can scarce move on ! 

Yet to thee only I may look. 

Oh ! guide me Nyiakrapon ! 

One thing struck Kwamankra, and it was this : 
the teeming multitudes represented every kindred, 
race, people, and nation under the sun. It was 
a congregation of select souls, men and women who 


56 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


had humbly done their duty, and done it well, in 
another life. That was all. 

6 . 

By now the mansion of the Goddess Mansa was 
within view, and Ivwamankra could faintly 
decipher certain words writ large on the portals. 
The characters scintillated as if done in living 
fire; but, upon nearer approach, he noticed that the 
effect was produced by the silvery beams of a 
moon-like orb which, by day and by night, gave 
life and light to the abode of the gods. Thus 
Kwamankra read : 

" Lead thou me on, Nyavii, 

And thou, 0 Destiny, 

Whithersoever thou ordainest, 

Unflinching' will I follow; 

But if from willing heart 
I will it not, 

Still must I follow! " 

He read and pondered, and the more he thought 
of them, the more he wondered why they were 
written over the portals of Mansa' s place. And 
while Katsina ever and anon impressed a point, 
bidding her father note this or that particular 
temple, even while she was yet warm in her 
account, they had arrived at the outer court of 
the mansion, and, saying, " There is mother come 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


57 


to meet us, 55 with a cry of joy and a run, she was 
in her mother's arms. 

" Katsina mine, run into the inner court and 
quickly set fruit and wine for thy father, for he 
must be weary after a long journey." So saying, 
she slipped past the child, and, in a moment, 
husband and wife were locked in a happy embrace ; 
but even as the panting heart, after long waiting, 
at last receiving that which it had yearned for, 
breaks down and cries aloud for joy, so did the 
twain sob on one another's neck. 

" Come, 'tis not seemly for us to give way like 
this when the gods have been so kind to us, nor 
must a goddess show weakness in many tears." 

" I forget; Katsina told me so," said Kwa- 
mankra, starting back. 

" How silly of you," said Mansa, " look at me, 
is there any difference between what I was and 
what I am, or can aught that may befall thee or 
me in time or eternity, save neglecting the will of 
the gods, make me less thy captive, thy bond 
maiden? " 

" 'Tis well said. But since thou inquirest, I 
must own that I see in thee a grandeur of soul, 
a depth of emotion, that mere mortals do not 
possess. Yet could I spot thee out among a 
thousand women. Tell me, art thou in very truth 
a goddess? " 

" Yes, I am a goddess; for Love is of God , and 

E 


58 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


God is Love. And so art thou a god, only thy 
warfare is not yet accomplished. And to this 
intent was thy prayer heard, and leave accorded 
thee to visit this sacred abode, that thou mightest 
carry hence a knowledge which will aid thee in 
thy work." 

" I can understand you being a goddess, but, 
surely, you mock me when you suggest that I am 
a god. Call me a thinker, a teacher, call me any- 
thing that is of the earth, but a god I cannot 
think that I am one, or can ever be." 

A look of pain passed o'er the countenance of 
Mansa as in subdued tones she said : £ £ It is even 
as it was revealed unto me. Yet another aeon 
must pass over thy head before thou comest to thine 
own, before thou enablest me to add the finishing 
touches to thy habitation. All these years I have 
waited for the fruits of my suggestions, as thy 
guardian angel, and though thou hast learnt much, 
yet hast thou more to learn, even the lesson of 
simple trust. A little more doubting on thy part, 
and thou mightest have lost the chance of seeing 
my face this day. Yet how my woman's heart 
hath longed for thee — for a full and a lasting 
reunion." 

££ Pardon me, beloved, you talk of trust and 
seem to sorrow for my want of it. Believe me, I 
shall learn to trust more. But as for a habitation 
for me in this city, it is more than I can under- 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


59 


stand. Have pity on my simplicity, for I am but 
a mortal." 

' ' I talk of naught, husband mine, that a mortal 
may not understand. Ever since my translation, 

I have watched over thee, even as a mother hen 
watches over her brood. Oft might' st thou have 
faltered, but that I prayed for thee, and my 
prayer was heard. Scarcely dost thou rise to the 
level of thy opportunities. Though a mortal, thou 
art a thinker, and, even among gods, none may 
rank higher. By knowledge God planned out the 
heavens, and laid deep the foundations of the 
earth. Only thou allowest full oft cold reason to 
usurp the place of simple trust, and in this thou 
art harder to learn than a little child. Now, 
hearken, unless thou becomest as simple and as 
trusting, aeon after aeon shall pass o'er thy head 
before our final reunion." 

" It grieveth me to think, dear one, that the 
time for reunion is with me, and yet I command it 
not; but think not 'tis willingly done. Tell me, 
do you mean trust in little things as well as in 
great, in temporal matters as in matters of higher 
moment? " 

" Yes, my beloved, light beginneth to dawn upon 
thy soul. Simple trust, remember, honoureth 
Nyiakrapon. Listen'! When thou returnest to 
earth, opportunity will be given thee of preparing 
in this school, and oh ! may'st thou be apt to learn. 

e 2 


60 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


For our beings must be rounded off, and every 
phase of our development completed, before trans- 
lation. And for this purpose are we given oppor- 
tunity after opportunity until the work of pruning 
be accomplished. It is all but the finishing 
touches that are required to thy habitation. Each 
mortal buildeth for himself a habitation in this 
sacred place. Some build of stone; some of 
stubble ; unhappy they who raise their hopes upon 
the shifting sand." 

" Yet thou speakest of the finishing touches 
being put by thee to that which is of my own 
building. Guardian angel mine, explain! " 

" Truly, it is of thine own building. No one 
may build for another. Even love, such as mine, 
is helpless in such a case. Come with me, and I 
will show thee the structure that thou are raising 
for thyself." 

Kwamankra followed, greatly wondering what 
the full meaning of Mansa's words might be. 
Close to the mansion of the goddess was rising up 
a new structure of considerable beauty and 
strength before which Mansa paused lingeringly. 

" Behold," she said, " the symmetry of this 
building. It is such as displeases not the gods. 
Yet, if thou perceivest clearly, thou wilt see a 
seam here, a fissure there, unevenness in places 
where there should be uniformity. Much as I 
love you, beloved, I cannot be unmindful of thy 


LOVE AND DEATH. 


61 


imperfections. Reunion may not take place till 
thou hast laid the apex to a character, fit for a 
god to dwell in." 

' ' Once more I fail to understand. How can 
my character form a dwelling place for a god? " 

" ' Ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil,' " 
quoted Mansa, with sweet emphasis, more to her- 
self than to her husband. Then fixing on him a 
look of tenderest sympathy, she said, " In the 
beginning evil and good were created, and to man 
was given the command to rule and subdue the 
evil, and to foster and cause the good to prevail. 
That is the final reason of human experience, and 
man becomes a god when he has won the victory. 
It consists in the building of character, and one 
star may differ from another star in glory. When 
mortality fails, the immortal in man prevails and 
finds its home here where, in the cycle of the 
heavens, in the case of great souls, it becomes a 
god dwelling in the temple which character hath 
fashioned. The temple hath truth for foundation, 
love for superstructure, and child-like trust for 
apex. Do you now understand, beloved? " 

" Yes, guardian angel mine." 

"For encouragement," continued she, " behold- 
est thou yonder rising tower in the structure which 
thou art raising for thyself whose pinnacle 
shimmers in the light of heaven ? ' ' Kwamankra 
bowed assent. " That is courage," said the god- 


62 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


dess. " It stands somewhat prominently in the 
edifice, as thon canst see." 

" But you puzzle me," said Kwamankra. " I 
ha ve little courage, as men think of it and preach 
it. I love not the strife of mortals, neither do I 
excel in deeds of valour nor of strength wherein, 
as I understand, the gods delight. I have done no 
heroic deed in my time that I know of. I have 
won no battles, led no squadrons triumphantly 
against the hosts of men." 

" Enough," broke in the goddess, with a slight 
gesture of impatience. " I know you have done 
none of these things. But wotest thou not as yet 
that I speak not of earthly things, and that, there- 
fore, earthly comparisons are worthless ? To love 
strife, to excel in deeds of nerve, to be leader in 
campaigns of slaughter — none of these is 
accounted great or courageous by the Father of the 
Gods. But to love truth, and to serve under its 
banner, come what may, that is courage truly, 
which will endure and stand the test of endless 
ages." Then turning upon him a look of intensest 
scrutiny and deepest sympathy, she continued : 
" Behold, you will stand before kings and princes 
and mighty ones of the earth to testify against 
corruption and wrong in high places in the name 
of truth. Thou hast courage, and the stars in 
their courses shall aid thee. And now take this 
message to the sons of men, and I give it thee as 


LOYE AND DEATH. 


63 


an emissary of the gods. Say unto the mighty 
that the cry of the afflicted and the distressed 
among the sons of Ethiopia has come up to us, and 
we will visit the earth. For gold the oppressor 
will find tinsel, and for precious stone adamantine 
rock which will fall upon the tinsel and grind it to 
dust, and the wind will scatter that which is 
ground unto the four corners of the earth, and men 
shall see it and wonder at the work of the gods. 
Lo ! Nyiakrapon will establish in Ethiopia a 
kingdom which is different from all other king- 
doms. Mammon will have no place therein, and 
an angel of light, with a two-edged sword, shall 
guard the gates thereof." 

" And in order that thou mightest not falter by 
the way, when thou returnest to the earth, go to 
the city beautiful, the mother of the world, unto 
the part that f aceth the setting sun, and thou shalt 
find a vestal virgin whose altar of love it hath 
been ordained should be lighted up by thee in 
incense to the God of Love. Go, she is true ; thou 
hast my leave, and fare thee well ! " 

' ' But 5 ' — Kwamankra began. 

" I know what thou would'st say," put in the 
goddess. "To obey is our present duty ; and remem- 
ber simple child-like trust is the apex of all — for 
thee as well as for me. It may be I shall come to 
thee, if need shall arise. So long as we trust, it 


64 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


will all come right. Go, and again, fare thee 
well ! " And, as an anxious father, watching by 
the side of a dying wife, restrains the anguish of 
his heart, lest his little ones might know the full 
meaning of their woe, even so did Mansa restrain 
the anguish of her soul before her husband. 

•a* 'Tv' "A~ •7S* 'A' 

" Father, mother says I am to come back to thee 
in the other world. I wonder if you will know 
me when I come ? ' ' Kwamankra's eyes filled with 
tears. 

" Yes, I will, darling," he simply said. 

^ 

When Kwamankra awoke, the work-a-day 
world was going on in its accustomed way, and 
the old earth still revolved upon its axis in the same 
duration of time. And the sunlight chased the 
shadows, and the shadows chased the sunlight, and 
there seemed to be strife in the elements, but not 
the strife of mortals. It was effort co-ordinating 
with effort, and Nyiakrapon ruled over all. 

^ ^ -H* -H* 

The new-born child opened her eyes upon a 
mysterious world. In her face was a puzzled 
look — a look of half doubt and half knowledge. 
After a few playful years she flitted away. Men 
talked of a ripe soul. There was one who under- 
stood, but said nothing, and that was the father 
of the child. 


IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 65 


CHAPTER V. 

In the Metropolis of the Gold Coast. 

In the year of grace, 1904, there was no such 
thing as a water supply in the town of Sekondi, 
the pet little preserve of His Majesty's Gold 
Coast Government. Nor was this in any way 
strange. The Government and the people of the 
Gold Coast had always depended upon Providence 
for such a common necessary of life as water. So, 
it happened, that when the Metropolis was being 
laid out into ' ' High Streets ' ' and open spaces, it 
had not dawned upon the authorities that man 
was a thirsty animal, and this notwithstanding 
gentle reminders on the part of experienced men 
in the past. If you search the Colonial archives, 
you will find that in the eighties of the old century 
Dr. Lamprey of the Army Medical Service pro- 
posed a simple scheme for supplying the ancient 
town of Cape Coast with fresh water. The 
Government went to sleep over the proposal, nor 
did it wake up over the suggestion to lead the 
waters of Homo to Accra, the headquarters of the 
Government. As matters stand, when Providence 


66 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


fails the Metropolis, men are known actually to 
resort to soda water for the daily ablution. 

Now, if you want to see Sekondi at its best and 
the water question at its worst, you must approach 
the town in the month of March on one of Messrs. 
Elder Dempster's boats, at the season of the year, 
that is to say, when other parts of the country are 
already being bathed in refreshing showers. As 
you round off Tacradi Bay, you see the mother of 
Gold Coast civilisation enveloped in a sheet of 
overhanging clouds charged with electricity. The 
side view that is presented shows a city of great 
promise. Already there are signs of the heavens 
giving way, and raindrops patter on the ship's 
deck. But even while you are wondering what a 
wet landing you are going to have, a blaze of light 
breaks out on the north-east, and the T itan of the 
upper sphere leaps forth triumphantly over 
thunder and storm. As you divest yourself of 
your mackintosh, a cynical old coaster says to you : 
" That's Sekondi all over; I shouldn't be sur- 
prised if the tanks are all dry." 

In other parts of the world harbour works 
generally precede railways; but here an apology 
for a pier-head does service for harbour accommo- 
dation. The result is you have to land in an open 
boat often with an angry surf surging around 
you. Let us assume, however, that you have 
landed safely. If you had known Sekondi in the 


IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 67 

days of its pristine innocence, you will find that 
an iron bridge now spans the ancient natural 
boundary between the English and the Dutch 
towns. From the echoes beneath proceeds forth 
the monotonous dirge of an asthmatic engine which 
appears to be trying to do the work of two engines 
in a climate which, according to some, is bad for 
man, beast, and locomotive. 

Where once stood the English town and the 
uplands beyond, one can see at sunset a number of 
well-arranged wooden houses on brick pillars, 
looking quaint and striking in the distance, but 
disappointing upon nearer view. At the foot of 
the hill lies the railway station, the first sign of 
civilisation, as you meet it on the Gold Coast. It 
is the terminus of the " Great North Western " 
of the Gold Coast. And a beautiful line it is with 
its sprightly curves and gradients and its thirty- 
nine miles in something like three hours. But I 
am anticipating. 

If you are not in a hurry to descend, you may 
come with me to the Manager's bungalow, from 
the spacious verandah of which you can catch a 
bird's-eye view of Sekondi, bathed in the twilight, 
as the sun moves leisurely in the western sky right 
into the bosom of the mighty ocean. So restful is 
the scene ! 

If you know the history of this town, a 
momentary sweep of the eye will bring back to 


68 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


memory signs of a former strife; for overlooking 
the Bay, there stands the old Fort, a symbol of 
the strife between the Dutch and the English in 
pre-locomotive days. The struggle, in name, was 
between two European nations, in reality between 
two aboriginal factions, who, for aught one knows 
to the contrary, might have otherwise lived in 
peace. The Dutch or the English flag was the 
standard which drew the natives in thousands into 
opposing camps, and for which they shed their 
blood freely, only that the white man might obtain 
freer scope to barter spurious drinks for the pre- 
cious metal which the torrential rains washed to 
the very doors of the aborigines. 

It is a sad reflection, but a legitimate one, that 
in the present day the successors of the leaders, 
who bore the heat and the burden of the day in 
order that British commerce might gain a footing 
on these shores, are not remembered as they should 
be by the British Government. But it is true 
that they are protected; it is feared very much 
protected. To be accurate, they are remembered 
sometimes in the partitioning of their territories, 
the minimising of their authority, and, worse than 
all, in some cases, in the sowing of those seeds of 
discord, calculated to destroy the integrity of a 
people. 

The work of destruction, speaking generally, 
goes on not in the light of day, but, metaphorically, 


IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 69 

in the dark hours of night. The mighty Titan 
does not knock down his victim and deprive him 
of life outright. Oh no ! that would be too crude 
a way. With the gin bottle in the one hand, and 
the Bible in the other, he urges moral excellence, 
which, in his heart of hearts, he knows to be im- 
possible of attainment by the African under the 
circumstances; and when the latter fails, his 
benevolent protector makes such failure a cause 
for dismembering his tribe, alienating his lands, 
appropriating his goods, and sapping the founda- 
tions of his authority and institutions. To apply 
Tennyson's simile, the Titan only knows what the 
Titan wants, or what he means. And all the 
while the eternal verity remains that the natural 
line of development for the aborigines is racial 
and national, and that this is the only way to 
successful European intercourse and enterprise. 
The situation could not be better hit off than in 
the suggestive lines of Mr. Guy Eden who, with 
marvellous insight, has written in the ' ' King of 
the Blacks " : 

" Clad in the civilised rags of humanity. 

Blear-eyed and shaggy, he limps down the street, 
Grinning about him with childish urbanity. 

Begging of all whom he chances to meet. 

Begging, but not for sound garments to cover him, 
Nor for the food that he longs for, you'd think. 

No, for a civilised passion is over him, 

All that he asks and he craves for is drink ! 


70 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


" But in the days long before the white man appeared, 
Here on this spot where a town was unknown, 
Hunger and thirst were two things Billy never feared, 
Hound him was plenty, and all was his own. 

All was his own, for a tribe paid their court to him, 
Called him their King, in those days that are past, 
Subjects in scores all their loyalty brought to him, 
Hirst amongst men was he then — now, the last! 

" Where are all they who would make such a ' bobbery/ 
Roaming the bush like glad children at play, 
Where the mad whirl of the tribal ' corrobboree,' 
Where the wild chaunt at the close of the day? 
Scattered and gone, for the world had no room for 
them, 

Far o'er the seas came the pitiless cry: 

' Why should they live? Fate has writ large its doom 
for them, 

Land for the whites ! Let the black fellows die ! ' 

" 'Land for the whites ! ' Aye, the answer came speedily, 
Civilisation, with hot eager stride, 

Sweeping upon them with maw gaping greedily, 
Swallowed them up in their pitiful pride. 

See there the last of them, King in the days of old ! 

Now 'midst the lowest he takes the last place. 
Surely some day, when the story of life is told, 

Angels will weep for the last of his race ! " 

But we were taking a passing view of Sekondi, 
and our companion was none other than Kwa- 
mankra. We have retraced our steps over the 
railway bridge, and are now in Dutch Sekondi. 


IN TEE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 71 

On the left wing of the street are a number of 
substantial business houses looking defiantly down 
upon a small building of four bare walls which 
represents the Wesleyan tabernacle at Sekondi. 

The spot upon which this simple building 
stands is historic. Here, half a century ago, was 
waged the civil war between the English and the 
Dutch, in which the good African missionary, 
Kwamina Affua, who had been baptised by the 
good missionaries as James Hayford, sometime 
British Resident at Kumasi, an ancestor of 
Kwamankra, and a brother of Kweku Atta, the 
then Omanhin of Cape Coast, lost his life. As 
peacemaker, he had gone to help separate the com- 
batants. In the struggle he was brutally, though' 
perhaps, unintentionally, struck down. Peace be 
to his ashes ! It is a sacred spot, and no wonder 
that the stars in their courses would seem to fight 
against the powers of mammon in their efforts to 
dislodge the worshippers. 

It being the hour of prayer, Kwamankra 
followed the crowd into the holy edifice, resolved 
to see for himself the result of fifty years of 
missionary effort. He noticed familiar faces here 
and there. There was Kwesi Yaw, who was quite 
a kid, and a carpenter's apprentice, in his school 
days at Cape Coast. How he had aged ! The 
lines of care were thickly marked on his face. 
Yonder was Esi Maynu, who used to be the laundry 


72 


ETHIOPIA. UNBOUND. 


maid at the old boarding establishment. Marks 
of age were upon her too; and when he remembered 
how gay and sprightly they, the young people, 
were in those bygone days, a sense of sadness came 
over him. 

What were they doing here ? They had come to 
worship, of course. Did they worship, or did they 
not, in those far away days when they, the young 
people, joined hands together in the moonlight 
under the open sky and sang SanJco songs ? Even 
then, to Kwamankra, the words of their familiar 
Sanko were full of meaning; and as he listened 
to-day to the wheezing sound of an old harmonium 
upon which a missionary boy was performing, he 
could not help thinking how much his people lost 
in passing from their ways to those of the white 
man. For a harmonium they had castanets with 
which they kept time as one of their number, Kobina 
Edu it was, gave the solo of the favourite Sanko 
while they joined in the chorus. He remembered 
the words so well, and readily recalled them : 

Mi sankofu, wo nwhe bra yaku aya, 

Inwhe bra wumba arku awiay; 

Aryarsa, ye yi iou be ye biada! 

Obiri, Osaivu si ay ! 

Adayaivi, osaivusi, 

Mirny ona, bada miyamu. 

Afi yi na nisini ya funa ! 

Anayaivi, mi dofu, mimyona ba da miyam ! 


IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 73 
Meaning : 

Companions mine, see how well we've struggled, 

Behold how far thy children have striven; 

If so be, we shall still struggle on ! 

She is black and comely, she is like unto her sire ! 
Morning star, thou art like unto thy sire ! 

My sweetheart, come to my embrace ; 

My Saviour, come to my bosom. 

How wearied are we this season ! 

Morning star, sweetheart mine, beloved, come to my 
embrace ! 

How simple, how natural, how spontaneous all 
this was compared with the refrain of ££ Dare to 
be a Daniel," composed and sang by Ira D. Sankey, 
which the missionary boy, with so much effort, was 
trying to play in tune. Those were the days of 
healthy Fanti manhood. The nation has missed 
the promise of her prime, and is likely to bow her 
gray hairs in sorrow and shame to the grave. 

The congregation was composed for the most 
part of children, clad each in a few fathoms of 
Manchester home-spuns. At the head of the choir 
was the schoolmaster whose attire certainly 
invited attention. In his elegantly cut-away 
black morning coat and beautifully-glazed cuffs 
and collar, not to speak of patent leather shoes, 
which he kept spotlessly bright by occasionally 
dusting them with his pocket handkerchief, tucked 
away in his shirt sleeves, he certainly looked a 

F 


74 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


veritable " swell," but he also did look a veritable 
fool. 

And this was the sum total of half a century 
of missionary zeal and effort. Could it be for this 
that the simple good-hearted fathers of our race 
had suffered and died? They prayed for light 
for themselves and for their children's children. 
But instead of light, say ye Gods, does not dark- 
ness brood over the land ? 

The preacher was a white man, preaching to a 
black congregation ; and outside on the front wall 
of the holy edifice was to be seen a notice which 
informed all whom it might concern that there 
would be a service for Europeans in the Club 
House at the station at a certain hour that day. 
Kwamankra turned away in disgust. 

Later in the day he came across Essi Maynu, 
the selfsame laundry maid of old days. He said 
to her: "Do you remember me, Essi?" She 
looked him up and down, and made a move as if to 
embrace him, but she checked herself. 

" What's the matter," said Kwamankra. 
" Does your new religion teach you to be shy of 
old friends ? Now, to show you that I, at least, am 
not changed, I shall come round this evening with 1 
some of my Sankofu ; and shan't we have a nice 
time with music and with dance ? " She raised her 
eyes in holy horror as much as to say : " Get thee 
behind me Satan." 


IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE GOLD COAST. 75 

Kwamankra retreated like a beaten man; but 
the lesson was not lost on him. Henceforth he 
was resolved to devote the rest of his life in 
bringing back his people to their primitive sim- 
plicity and faith. And, in that resolve, he mused 
upon the words : " Bushido (Shintoism) offers us 
the ideal of poverty instead of wealth, humility 
in place of ostentation, reserve instead of reclame, 
self-sacrifice in place of selfishness, the care of the 
interest of the State rather than that of the indi- 
vidual. It inspires ardent courage and the refusal 
to turn back upon the enemy. It looks death 
calmly in the face, and prefers it to ignominy of 
any kind. It preaches submission to authority 
and the sacrifice of all private interests, whether 
of self or of family, to the common weal. It 
requires its disciples to submit to a strict physical 
and mental discipline, develops a martial spirit, 
and by lauding the virtues of courage, constancy, 
fortitude, faithfulness, daring, self-restraint, 
offers an exalted code of moral principles, not only 
for the man and the warrior, but for men and 
women in times both of peace and war." 

" That is it; that is it; I have it," said Kwa- 
mankra. " If my people are to be saved from 
national and racial death, they must be proved as 
if by fire — by the practice of a virile religion, not 
by following emasculated sentimentalities which 
men shamelessly and slanderously identify with 
the holy One of God, His son, Jesus Christ." 

f 2 


CHAPTER 


VI. 


THE WORLD , THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 77 


CHAPTER VI. 

The World 1 , the Flesh and the Devil. 

1 . 

For the Rev. Silas Whitely the die was cast. 
Passing from college to ordination without any 
fixed ideas as to his own relation to God in his 
son Jesus Christ, or otherwise, and yielding to 
the advice of an old college chum, Kennedy 
Bilcox by name, who at this time was holding the 
post of Political Officer on the Gold Coast, he had 
made up his mind to put in an application for 
the Colonial Chaplaincy at Sekondi rather than 
continue to face a life of penury as a curate in 
East London, particularly as he knew a friend or 
two who would work the back door influence 
beautifully with the officials at the Colonial Office 
on his behalf. 

" And what is the screw like," eagerly asked 
Whitely, when Bilcox first made the suggestion to 
him. 

" Oh, it is only a matter of some five hundred 
a year with an annual rise of twenty-five pounds, 
until you reach six hundred pounds, besides fees 
and allowances thrown in here and there, passages 


78 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


in and out free every twelve months, etcetera', 
etcetera, etcetera, with an assistant chaplain, a 
black man of course, to save you unnecessary 
drudgery." 

" That is quite good enough for me, minus the 
etceteras, and I am sure I thank you from the 
bottom of my heart for giving me an inkling of 
such a billet. By George ! how spoilt you Colonials 
are; and to think I was going to immure myself 
in East London for the rest of my natural life! " 

" But, remember," put in Bilcox, " you will be 
subject to discipline. You must not, for example, 
join the silly band of ' progressives,' or your 
chances of promotion will be absolutely nil, and 
you may even run the risk of being shelved alto- 
gether. The process of shelving is a simple one. 
You get down with fever; you are invalided home; 
you never return again, that is all." 

" You needn't fear about that. I have no pro- 
clivities that way, but tell me all about the 
' progressives ' on the Gold Coast." 

" Why, they are a mere handful of white fools 
who are blind enough not to see where their bread 
is buttered, and who advocate equal rights for the 
native, and all that sort of tommy rot. Now, 
between ourselves," breaking out into a low mis- 
chievous laugh, " the Lieutenant-Governor him- 
self had progressive leanings when he first came 
out among us, and would not take the advice of us, 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL, 79 

old coasters. He seemed then as if he could dine 
of niggers, pardon a bit of Coast slang, until he 
was bitten, and bitten pretty sharply too, I can 
tell you. Now he sings the ' progressive ' tune 
io longer," laying particular emphasis on the last 
sjntiment. 

" But how was he bitten, and by whom? " 

" By the Eantis, of course. Didn't you read 
ia the papers at the time how he was hooted by 
tie Fanti women in the central province? I was 
for bombarding their stronghold and sending the 
niggers flying all over the country, but the old 
bcunder, the Permanent Secretary at the Colonial 
Ofice, who, by the way, is the one who really rules 
tie roost, wouldn't let us. The thing is too bad, 
to think of niggers hooting a Lieutenant- 
Givernor." 

" I confess, Bilcox, I cannot see the magnitude 
of the offence. I suppose there must have been 
scmething to hoot the good Governor for." 

" Oh, it was all about the Provincial Council 
qiestion," answered Bilcox, wearily, as if struck 
bj a sudden thought. ' ' I must be going home now. 
IMy little daughter will be all eagerness to welcome 
her papa. I came up to London to draw my pay, 
aid meeting old coasters seems always to arouse 
tie brute part of one somehow." 

" How do you mean, Bilcox? " said Whitely. 
"Surely you must have a better account of your 
fellows than that." 


80 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Bilcox, ignoring the thrust, said in a sad tone":' 
"You know, Whitely, sometimes I cannot stand 
the funny little questions my little daughter puts 
to me when I return home from Africa. She has 
an idea that God has made of one blood all nations 
to dwell on the face of the earth — you know the 
quotation; it is more in your line. I don't knov 
whence she got the notion, but, ' papa,' she wouli 
jump on my knee, and looking me straight in ths 
face with her delicate blue eyes, ' papa,' she would 
begin, ' I hope you were very good to those pocr 
African people whom you have to look after. 
They say they are sometimes badly treated, bit 
you will be kind to them, won't you ? ' When I 
am alone, I do think of these things, and my better 
self whispers to me that the child's sentiments are 
right, and that they are directly contradictory to 
my line of official work." 

" There is a good deal in what you say. To ie 
frank, Bilcox, I must say I cannot see, for ii- 
stance, why sensible men should go into hysterics 
because a Lieutenant-Governor was hooted it. 
Why, I was at a meeting the other day at tie 
Queen's Hall when Mr. Balfour was hissed at, aid 
for a considerable length of time he could not get 
a hearing. I don't remember the Hussars beiig 
called out to punish the naughty little band if 
British barbarians, as Grant Allen good-humour- 
edly dubs us. And mind you he was the Prine 
Minister.'' 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 81 

' ' Perhaps that is the reasonable way of looking 
at the matter, but we all suffer from an affliction 
known as Coast conscience, and the powers save 
you, if you, as parson, should get a touch of it when 
you get out there. As for myself, I shall go quite 
crazy one of these days, if I don't soon give up this 
job." 

In due course the Rev. Silas .Whitely received 
his appointment as Colonial Chaplain of Sekondi, 
nor did he find the emoluments of the office in any 
way exaggerated by his friend the Political Officer. 
His mother was satisfied, but to do the reverend 
gentleman justice, before sailing out, his own 
heart was full of misgiving first as to his own 
spiritual condition, secondly as to whether he 
would have the moral courage, in the face of 
official stress, to do his duty as a man. A few 
months of coast life, however, soon settled all his 
doubts. Why should he worry about the matter 
of his spiritual condition. He was not the first 
clergyman who had been troubled with conscien- 
tious scruples. He would go through the ordinary 
routine of his work, and, when his term was ended, 
he would pack up his traps and go. Besides, it 
appeared that he had set too high an estimate upon 
the black character. The blacks, he had come to 
consider, were nothing but a pack of dishonest 
people, robbing white traders right and left, 
smuggling contraband goods, and defrauding His 


82 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Majesty's Government whenever they could. His 
duty as a Colonial Chaplain was plain. He must 
teach these people the elementary principles of 
honesty, thereby working hand in hand with His 
Majesty's judges who had arrived at the same 
result. It was true there were a few exceptions 
among the educated class, but he was beginning 
to entertain doubts as to how to place even that 
class, and he was not at all sure how he would 
receive Kwamankra even, whom he assured him- 
self he had known just slightly in the 'Varsity, if 
hs happened to meet him on the Gold Coast. 

The Assistant Colonial Chaplain was the Rev. 
Kwaw Baidu, who drew an annual stipend of one 
hundred and fifty pounds. Besides doing the 
pastoral work along the railway line, including 
the management of a mission at Tarkwa, he had 
the bulk of the chaplaincy work thrown upon him, 
while the Chaplain himself was content to draw 
his fat pay and take things easy, as, he took care 
to explain, the medical officer had advised him to 
do as little as possible on account of the dreadful 
climate. Outside purely official duties, the Colo- 
nial Chaplain had nothing to do with his assistant, 
who was a highly cultured man, and, in some re- 
spects, his senior, having taken a better degree 
than the Chaplain. Not that the Chaplain was in 
any way unkind to the Assistant Chaplain. Oh, 
dear no ! He only wished it to be mutually under- 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 83 

stood that between them was a natural gulf fixed 
— the gulf of a difference in their respective social 
status. So that if the twain happened to be at 
work together at the chaplaincy, and the Super- 
visor of Customs, let us say, called, he would 
politely say: "Mr. Baidu, would you kindly 
excuse me, you will find the verandah cool and 
comfortable," and would never venture upon an 
introduction. 

The Rev. Kwaw Baidu was an humble-minded 
man, and so long as the Colonial Chaplain did not 
come in conflict with him upon matters of prin- 
ciple, he did not mind. But, at last, an occasion 
for stumbling and a rock of offence arose in the 
shape of the segregation question. The town of 
Akrokeri had been laid out into a European 
quarter immediately fronting the railway, and 
occupying the finest site the neighbourhood 
yielded, while the native chief and his people who 
by rights should own the whole surface, save such 
as was actually required for building purposes by 
the mines, had, with the connivance of the Govern- 
ment, been located on the steeps of a line of hills 
to the east, for which they had to pay quarterly 
rent. But when the question of building a ceme- 
tery for the interment of Akrokerites arose, and 
the European inhabitants put forward the view 
that on no account would they commingle their 
dead with the dead of " niggers," and the matter 


84 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


was by the Political Officer referred to the chap- 
laincy for opinion, the Rev. Silas Whitely held 
that the Europeans were right, and the thing put 
the Rev. Kwaw Baidu's back up. 

" Do you mean to say, you an ambassador of 
Jesus Christ, that you are going to support any 
such nonsense as this which knocks the bottom out 
of all Christian charity? No wonder that the 
people turn a deaf ear to all my appeals. I will 
speak plainly to you for once. If you do not yield 
to reason and the spirit of Christ, whom you and I 
profess to follow, I will report your conduct to the 
Bishop, and, if need be, I will appeal to the Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury." 

" You may do what you like, Mr. Baidu, but 
you seem to forget that this is a British Colony, 
and that the salaries of you and me are paid by 
the Colonial Government, and not by the Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury. Besides, I consider your 
opposition a piece of impertinence, and you must 
consider yourself suspended until I have recom- 
mended your dismissal to headquarters." 

In due course the Rev. Kwaw Baidu was com- 
pulsorily retired from the Colonial service, and a 
path, thirty-six feet wide, was marked between 
the European and native cemeteries, and the 
former beautifully fenced in with money mostly 
contributed by the black folk. But the matter got 
noised abroad, and there wasn't a soul in the dio- 
cese of Sekondi that did not come to know of it. 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 85 


2 . 

A decrepit old woman, limping heavily on her 
crutches, made her way into the chaplaincy yard 
and insisted upon speaking to the white chaplain. 

The chaplaincy yard was kept scrupulously 
clean, and the little garden adjacent, with hybiscus 
and crotons growing in rich profusion, and all 
bordered with festoons of sweet-peas and scarlet 
runners in early bloom, showed, as clearly as out- 
side appearances went, that the Rev. Silas 
Whitely fully appreciated the good things of life. 

The Colonial Chaplain had dined well, and was 
enjoying a Havana under the spreading bread- 
fruit trees which adorned the chaplaincy yard. 
The full moon threw a spray of silvery light 
through the myriad leaves of the overspreading 
branches, casting a halo over his. face quite out of 
keeping with the mundane thoughts which at the 
moment engaged the mind of the reverend gentle- 
man. 

" Yes, I believe in even an ambassador of Christ 
having a good time. Why should I be such a silly 
ass as to refuse a whisky and soda at the Club? 
Besides, we must be all things unto all men. That 
is clearly the scriptural admonition, and it suits 
my present humour down to the ground. So there 
goes it; it is done " — this as he flicked oh the live 
ashes from his cigar. 


86 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


A deep, low cough arrested the attention of the 
Rev. Silas Whitely, and he turned to see the 
direction whence it came. He had thought he was 
alone. 

" Was it you, Nancy? 55 he said, addressing the 
old woman. " What brings you here to-night? " 

The woman addressed curtsied low. She had 
been brought up in the Mission school, finishing 
up in the High School, and spoke English with 
remarkable fluency. She had loved, and she had 
lost — first husband, then an only son who had been 
unto the husband as the apple of the eye, and, 
therefore, doubly dear unto her woman's heart. 
Did I say lost ? No, they were not lost. At least 
thus she had been taught by the missionaries, and 
when she was sad the chaplain had cheered her 
with the hope of the resurrection morn. She had 
come to believe that somewhere, in another sphere, 
they awaited her; and her one thought was that 
happy hour, one day, when they would welcome her 
to a place beside them. She lived for this, and 
worked for this hope. Now and again she thought 
she had glimpses of Him who said : " I am the 
Way, the Truth, and the Life," and she had been 
told the way to Him was to maintain the truth. 
A heavy burden, for some time back, had sorely 
pressed upon her heart, which she felt would be 
lifted by telling the Rev. Silas Whitely the truth, 
as she conceived it; and so here she was to do it, 
and yet did not know how. 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 87 

A soft wind rustled the luxuriant foliage over- 
head, and through the branches the bright stars 
peeped down upon this simple old woman whose 
only wish was to be in harmony with Nature's 
God. A sudden inspiration, like the wind blow- 
ing where it listeth, came to her. She would tell 
the chaplain a story, as she had heard he was fond 
of Fanti stories, and was wont to collect them; and 
what better time than a moonlight night in Africa 
for telling stories ? 

Nancy laid aside her crutches, took a low stool 
offered her by the Chaplain, and cleared her throat 
of a troublesome cough or two. " I have a nice 
story to tell you, sir, to add to your collection, and, 
as I was feeling a little stronger this evening than 
usual, I thought I would come in." 

" Certainly, quite welcome," said the Rev. Silas 
Whitely. " Fire away, Nancy; I am all eager- 
ness to hear you begin." 

£C Once upon a time," Nancy began in a clear, 
sonorous voice, "there went into a far distant 
country two Mahomedan priests to work for Allah. 
After a time their paths lay in different districts, 
and they seldom heard of one another. As was 
their wont, the missionaries worked in leather and 
other useful industries ; but, as it happened, Akar- 
bah succeeded and grew rich in worldly goods, 
while Adaku, his friend, merely lived from hand 
to mouth; yet did Allah bless his labours. As is 


88 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the way of the world, Akarbah's society was now 
sought by the highest in the land; and when he 
counted his beads at the hour of prayer, he failed 
not to thank Allah for all the good He gave. 

" One day as he returned from the house of 
prayer he met an errand boy, who handed him a 
bit of parchment, written in Arabic. He opened 
it, and found it was a message from his brother 
missionary, who, he knew, was low and humble in 
the things of this world. ' This day,' so the 
message ran, ' I, Adaku, thy brother missionary, 
shall lodge with thee.' 

" Akarbah frowned. It was very inconvenient. 
This very day the High Sheriff was to dine with 
him, the rich and prosperous Akarbah, and what 
would he say if he met at his table a mendicant 
friar of a Mahomedan priest? He was resolved. 
The thing must not be. ' Here, lad, take this 
parchment back quickly to my brother Adaku. 
Make sure and give it to him, and I will give you 
my blessing and a silver piece upon your return.' 

"The lad ran past the camels and the horses 
and the cattle in the market places, and went out 
by the fifth gate of the city to find the priest 
Adaku was not at the place where he expected him 
to be. Adaku had already entered by the seventh 
gate, and was already within the holy precincts 
o+' the abode of Akarbah. 

" ' Hail, brother,' was Adaku's salutation. 
' May Allah be ever more gracious to thee.' 


THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND THE DEVIL. 89 

"For answer Akarbah visibly trembled with 
agitation. ' Did you not receive the parchment ? ' 
Adaku stared vacantly at his friend. ' What 
parchment? ' 

" Akarbah gave no answer, but suddenly left 
the precincts of his abode, as if struck by a sudden 
thought. The hours passed, but they did not 
bring Akarbah. At last the truth dawned upon 
Adaku. c Evidently I am not wanted here,' and, 
putting on his sandals and snatching his staff, he 
passed out of the house of his friend, shaking the 
dust off his feet as he did so, and never forgetting 
to mention him, not in anger, it is said, when he 
counted his beads in the house of Allah." 

" What a funny story, Nancy; whatever do you 
mean? " said the Rev. Silas Whitely, as the old 
woman finished what she had to say. 

" Yes, it is funny," she said; " but you know, 
chaplain, I have lately had such grave doubts as 
to whether what you tell us in those beautiful ser- 
mons you read out every Sunday about the love of 
God, of heaven, and the rest of it can all be true ; 
and oh ! whatever shall I do after all these years 
of weary waiting, if they are not true ? Where is 
my husband, and where my son? " and it was 
painful to see the distress and the anguish in the 
face of the poor woman. 

" Don't go on like that, Nancy. But what is 
there to make you doubt of heaven and the love of 
God? " a 


90 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


The old woman dried a tear or two, and said 
very slowly and deliberately : 

" Chaplain, yon asked me when I had done tell- 
ing my story what I meant by it. I have prayed 
to God night and day for some time to be able to 
answer that self-same question when it came, and 
now, God helping me, I will. Know thou, then, 
that thou art the Akarbah of my story. God hath 
exalted you above thy fellows that thou mightest be 
a guide unto us his forlorn little ones, and show us 
the way of love and the way to heaven. But surely 
thou hast not dealt in love with thy brother, Kwaw 
Baidu, who is now out of work, with wife and 
children depending upon him, whose story is 
known to all the parishioners for miles and miles 
around. And oh ! if the heaven you have so often 
preached about hath two ways leading to it, one 
for us black folk and one for you our masters, what 
an undesirable place it must be for us after all the 
weariness here below. But do tell me — you who 
have raised the hope in me — where is now my hus- 
band, and where my child? " ejaculated the poor 
woman, wringing her hands. " Tell me, for thou 
hast helped to raise false hopes in me. Oh, God ! 
what shall I do ? " And the poor woman swooned 
away in a dead faint. Every effort was made to 
revive her, without success, and when the doctor 
arrived he pronounced life extinct. 


Signs of Empire : Loyal Hearts. 


91 


CHAPTER VII. 

Signs of Empire : Loyal Hearts. 

It was Empire Day — tHe 24th of May — the day 
on which was commemorated throughout the Em- 
pire the birth of the great white Queen who, in her 
life, surrounded the British throne with a halo 
of womanly virtues, the kind of thing before 
which, in all ages and in all climes, the heart of 
universal man bows low in reverential homage and 
respect. 

The Gold Coast is also a component part of the 
British Empire — as necessary to the complete 
whole as the smallest link to the complete chain ; 
and so, as the women trooped out this morning in 
their hundreds in Ethiopian costumes with their 
hair done up in the most graceful, yet picturesque, 
fashions, and the children with bunting and palms 
and flowers, all gay and merry as for a wedding 
feast, one could easily realise that the heart of the 
people was true. What could not be made of 
material such as this — the nucleus of the free 
Ethiopian Empire that is to be ? 

Why had they thus turned out? What mean- 
ing had "Empire Day" for these simple folk? 

g 2 


92 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


All they knew was that the great white Queen, the 
great Awuraba, or mistress, whose son now 
reigned over them, had been born on this day, and 
her they delighted to honour; but if you asked 
them wherefore they loved and cherished her 
memory, they could not tell you why. Perhaps it 
was an instinctive feeling that she, a good woman, 
could never be unkind to them and their people, 
and sympathy had begotten loyalty. After she 
was gone, they familiarly referred to her, and 
said : " Inde Awuraba niba adzi adzi, wo ma ye 
nkoko sumunu ," that was to say, £< Now our mis- 
tress's son reigns; let us go and serve him." 

It was a day to be remembered by the merchant, 
because he lost money by the closure of his fac- 
tory; by the official, because it gave him a day 
oil and extra drinks; by the school children, be- 
cause they came in for a treat gratuitously sup- 
plied by the simple folk of the community, as a 
kind of offering to the great white throne. And 
so it happened that all had enjoyed themselves and 
made merry. 

By Kenny Bilcox this day of days had been 
spent in looking over the District Record Book for 
the past six months during which he had been 
away on furlough. He was to take charge on the 
morrow, as his assistant was due for leave. But 
the more he read the more furious did he become. 
Things had not altogether gone to his liking. It 


SIGNS OF EMPIRE : LOYAL HEARTS. 93 

was late in the afternoon ; the day had been sultry ; 
and he, faithful servant of the King, had worked 
late and long. Suddenly, turning round to his 
orderly: " Kwesi," he said, " run fast, fast, to 
Mr. Macan and tell him I want him here one 
time." 

"Yes, Sar ! " and, in a moment, Kwesi was 
racing down the main street in the direction of the 
parade ground. 

"Maser want you, sar," said Kwesi to Macan, 
who was enjoying himself immensely in his own 
fashion. 

" And what on earth does £ maser ' want with 
me on a day like this ? Say to ' maser ' I dey 
come." 

" Tut! tut! tut! whatever good are you for, I 
should like to know," said Political Officer Bilcox 
to his assistant, David Macan, as in return to a 
low respectful bow, he merely glanced Macan' s 
way in a half nod, half menace. " The fact is," 
he pursued, " you are too d — m straight for the 
Gold Coast Diplomatic Service. It is like you 
Scotch people, you are always putting your con- 
founded conscience before obvious duty. Here 
you have gone and spoilt a whole eighteen months 
of strenuous work on my part to put into opera- 
tion in Insima District the policy mapped out by 
the Lieutenant-Governor." 

David Macan was somewhat taken aback at 


94 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


this sort of reception, and, at first, did not know 
whether to put it down to the extra rise in the 
thermometer, extra whiskies and sodas, or to his 
ill luck in being born with a conscience. Truth to 
tell, David Macan was a typical Scotchman, as 
straight as a die, and had already gained for him- 
self among the Africans the sobriquet of " honest 
David." Reflecting a moment, David said, " Ex- 
cuse me, sir, but I don't know in the least what 
you are talking about. Perhaps if you took the 
matter calmly, I can understand you better. In 
the meanwhile, let me warn you, sir," his Scotch 
blood for the nonce getting the better of him, 

' ' that much as I respect you, I shall seriously 
resent the next rash reference you make to my 
people." 

" And what on earth do you mean by allowing 
that impudent rascal Kwamankra to sneak into 
this district ? ' ' angrily demanded Bilcox, and 
ignoring Macan's remonstrance. " We'll have 
our hands full, I can assure you, and you will have 
to answer for it at headquarters. But whether 
or not, I won't have you in this district, do you 
hear? I'll recommend you for leave at once, and 
when you return, if you ever do, you may go to 
Kintampor, or some hotter place, for aught I 
care." 

' ' How absurd you are this evening, Mr. Bilcox, 
to be sure ! How could I prevent Kwamankra 


SIGNS OF EMPIRE : LOYAL HEARTS. 


95 


coming into the district to practise ? Besides, he 
is a native of the country; the chiefs look up to 
him ; and I had always understood we were to work 
through the chiefs, and, by parity of reasoning, 
through their natural leaders." 

££ Do you call it sound policy to play into the 
hands of a man who can write such rubbish as this 
Kwamankra does? " throwing heavily upon the 
table a thick volume which had been standing on 
the dirty shelf. £t Pray listen to this and tell me 
whether your senses have fled," this as he read 
from the open page the following : ££ £ Were there 
such a thing as political ethics, or a pretence or 
semblance thereof among Christian nations, as 
there is a semblance of some sort of Christianity 
in so-called Christian countries, it might be per- 
missible to inquire how far the conduct of Chris- 
tian nations in relation to aboriginal races, some- 
times charitably called subject races, conformed to 
the Christian standard of morality — ' Now that 
is rank heresy, teaching the aboriginals that we 
are a parcel of hypocrites and cut-throats ; and to 
think that the writer of this vile stuff has been let 
in here through your stupidity! " pursued Bilcox 
breathlessly. 

Macan made a move as if to knock the Political 
Officer down; but just then a voice from the 
verandah attracted his attention, and, in a twink- 
ling, Whitely had placed himself between the two. 


96 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


" There is no reason," said Whitely, " why you 
two gentlemen should not repair to the back yard 
and have it out in true sportsmanlike fashion. But 
as for expressing your opinions of one another 
freely in the hearing of the black boys, I don't 
know what to say of it. By George ! how they 
swarmed at the foot of the stairs, peeping one 
behind the other, until I kicked them off the pre- 
mises as I came up. Besides, we did the thing 
differently in my youthful days. Fewer words, 
you know; but, perhaps, the heat had something 
to do with it, or I mightn't have had the trouble 
of interfering," placing himself in pugilistic 
attitude first towards Bilcox, and then towards 
Macan. The situation was fast bordering on the 
ridiculous, and as Macan was in no mood for fun, 
he snatched up his hat, bowed low, and in a 
moment he was gone. 

' ' B — oy ! b — oy ! cocktails, two cocktails, do you 
hear ? and look sharp about it, or by Jove, I will 
break every bone in your body ! " Then turning 
to Whitely — " The idea of these boys always 
hanging round and eavesdropping. The worst of 
it is one can't do without them." 

When the servant had placed the drinks on the 
table and departed, Whitely said : "I would 
advise you, Bilcox, to be careful what you say in 
the hearing of these native boys of the man Kwa- 
mankra. You have no idea what a hold he has 


SIGNS OF EMPIRE : I.OYAL HEARTS. 


97 


upon the popular imagination, and how wide- 
spread is his influence. Personally, there is some- 
thing irresistible about him I could never with- 
stand. I knew him in my student days. Under 
normal conditions, I should say it is the charm of 
a manly purpose and force of character. But, 
then, no one is normal in these parts." And there 
was a strange sadness in his voice which Bilcox 
could not help noticing from the way he laid 
stress on the words " no one." 

" Mind you don't miss the Chief Magistrate's 
dinner, or he'll never forgive you; the hour is 
8 p.m.," said Whitely, as he slowly descended the 
stairs. 

As for Macan, he could not help turning over 
in his mind the strange medley which was labelled 
the Gold Coast Diplomatic Service. He remem- 
bered reading somewhere before coming out the 
following: "It must strike the careful observer 
that the 'position of a man in the public service of 
the Gold Coast is often a difficult one. If such a 
man is honest and intelligent , he cannot fail soon 
to discover the peculiar conditions under which 
he is called upon to discharge his duties. The 
first thing that will occur to him will be the dog- 
in-the-manger policy of the Administration, 
whose servant he is. He will find that, 
theoretically, the people are free, having their 
own laws and institutions. He will see that the 


98 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Government, apparently, recognise this fact ; 
hut that in practice, he, the public servant, is 
expected to interfere with the institutions of 
the people as far as he dares. Neither is he 
told to allow the natural development of the 
institutions of the people, nor is he directed, 
in so many words, to attempt to mould them. 
What he does to-day, which is considered 
wrong by his superiors, may be done to- 
morrow by another and applauded ." As he 
put two and two together, trying to fathom 
the real cause of his superior officer's annoyance, 
the truth gradually dawned upon him. He had 
acted by the natives as an honest man should do. 
During the time he had acted as the head of the 
Diplomatic Service he had given the chiefs every 
encouragement to unite with one another and to 
consolidate their authority and jurisdiction 
over their people. He had encouraged national 
schools throughout the district, and supported the 
Chiefs to make bye-laws, requiring every child to 
attend the schools until the age of fourteen. All 
these were in the line of normal and healthy 
growth of the people in enlightened progressive 
ways, and he had worked with a will and a great 
deal of intelligence and tact. It had never dawned 
upon him that there was a theoretical policy and 
a practical one, the latter having as its aim such 
a shaping of circumstances as would for ever make 


SIGNS OF EMPIRE : LOYAL HEARTS. 


99 


the Ethiopian in his own country a hewer of wood 
and a drawer of water unto his Caucasian protec- 
tor and so-called friend. This then was what he 
was expected to do. Was it right, could he con- 
scientiously do it? 


CHAPTER 


VIII. 


A MAGISTERIAL FUNCTION. 


A MAGISTERIAL FUNCTION. 


101 


CHAPTER VIII. 

A Magisterial Function. 

A splendid repast, in the course of which good 
spirits and good cheer had flowed freely. The 
talk had varied from Oxford dons to Japanese ad- 
mirals and Russian generals; and when it came 
down to liqueur and coffee everyone was merry, 
but truly the merriest was the genial host, and a 
right down good sort he was. 

The Chief Magistrate beat himself this evening, 
and as he waxed more and more eloquent and 
glibly passed on from one subject to the other, it 
was only right that the eternal race question 
should come in for a fair consideration. 

They were a body of learned men, the guests of 
the evening, including the members of the Diplo- 
matic Service, one or two doctors, with a fair 
sprinkling of coloured barristers, and, as it became 
such a company, they talked learnedly. 

" .When you come to talk of the jurisdiction of 
the native Kings and Chiefs I lose all patience with 
you," said the host, as he wheeled round upon a 
youthful barrister who had ventured to make an 
observation upon the destoolment, that is to say, 
the deposition of the Chief of Agona. " The 


102 


ETHIOPIA UNEOUND. 


King of England is King here, and it is ridiculous 
to think that these little squirts of puppet head- 
men can be said to have jurisdiction." 

Macan of the Diplomatic Service rashly came 
to the rescue of the youthful barrister. " I 
thought I had seen such a thing as a Native Juris- 
diction Ordinance in the Corpus Juris of the Gold 
Coast." 

The host growled and told him plainly, but 
politely, without much ado, that he knew next 
to nothing about the matter. Turning to Kwa- 
mankra, he pursued, " Now, what do you think — 
you go up country, and one day one of your puppet 
kings sends and arrests you and claps you in gaol 
- - how would you feel over the matter, eh ? " 

" At the best of times, I confess," said Kwa- 
mankra, "it is not pleasant to find oneself in 
durance vile. But if the jurisdiction is there, 
what is there to do but to submit to it? " 

" That is exactly what you needn't do. When 
one of your native authorities comes before me 
with their confounded jurisdiction notions I treat 
them as little children, and dismiss the whole 
thing with a jest. I can assure you, it is a most 
effective way. Besides, talking seriously, you have 
not considered the effect of the Order in Council." 
" Which Order in Council do you mean? " ven- 
tured a precocious full-fledged. 

' ' What else can I mean but the last, which de- 


A MAGISTERIAL FUNCTION. 


103 


fined the limits of the colony, and vested the juris- 
diction in our sovereign Lord the King," almost 
shrieked out the host. 

" My dear sir," put in Kwamankra, " if I may 
venture to come to the assistance of my young 
friend, it takes two to make a bargain, as you will 
find if you examine into the constitutional history 
of the country." 

For the moment the host was nonplussed. He 
was somewhat hazy as to the historical part of 
the subject. But as a parting shell, he exclaimed : 
" Well, be that as it may, it was one of your own 
men who drew a report upon this very matter upon 
which the Government have acted. I have seen it 
with my own eyes, I assure you, and I make you 
a present of the fact." 

" I say, Whitely," continued the Chief Magis- 
trate, " how did you get on with that cemetery 
controversy of yours ? I hear you have given your 
assistant the sack. I say, it is really too bad of 
you. I am strong on so-called native jurisdiction, 
and that kind of thing, but when it comes to segre- 
gation of the dead, I tell you the thing beats me. 
Think of old Lawson, the pioneer of the gold in- 
dustry, not receiving decent interment on the 
ground of colour. The thing is preposterous, and 
I am not in sympathy with it." Whitely coloured 
up and appeared confused. The criticism was 
sharp and unexpected. 


104 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


The Chief Magistrate was known for his frank 
expression of opinion, no matter what the subject 
matter of discussion was. Bilcox thought it was 
time he came to the rescue of the Government 
policy. 

"Bravo! Chief, I like your fine speech," 
addressing the Chief Magistrate. " I never knew 
you were a champion of the non-segregation 
theory. At the next sitting of the Council I shall 
not fail to record the considered views of such a 
highly placed official as your Honour." 

" I have never been able to understand the 
argument in favour of segregation," put in the 
conscientious Macan unguardedly. "In the 
time of an epidemic, for instance, I can under- 
stand why the afflicted, without distinction, 
should be put away. But in normal times, to be 
sure, I don't understand the philosophy of the 
matter." 

" The question has nothing to do with epi- 
demics. The man in the street knows that,"' 
sourly retorted Bilcox. " Besides, it is common 
knowledge that whites never catch small-pox from 
blacks," he added irrelevantly. 

"Ha! ha! ha! ha!" burst out Dr. Castor. 
" That's good, go one further. In all my expe- 
rience I declare ! " 

" You don't mean to insult me, doctor, I hope. 
Besides, all this discussion before these gentle- 


A MAGISTERIAL FUNCTION. 


105 


men," waving his hand in the direction of the 
coloured fraternity, " is most unseemly, and I for 
one must beg leave to retire." 

" Pray, don't go away, Mr. Bilcox," said Kwa- 
mankra. " I am sure we are not offended in the 
slightest. My friends here, like myself, are used 
to this kind of thing. But what are the odds ? I, 
for one, am strong on reciprocity ." 

" And what has reciprocity to do with this 
matter ? 5 ' angrily demanded the Political Officer. 

" Only this, sir," began Kwamankra calmly, 
" that if you took mankind in the aggregate, irre- 
spective of race, and shook them up together, as 
you would the slips of paper in a jury panel box, 
you would find after the exercise that the cultured 
would shake themselves free and come together, 
and so would the uncouth, the vulgar, and the 
ignorant ; but, of course, you would ignore this law 
of nature, and, with a wave of the hand, confine 
the races in separate air-tight compartments. 
Wherefore I preach reciprocity ." 

" I say, you fellows, we must be going; it is 
getting late ' ' — this said the senior member of the 
legal fraternity as he rose, turban in hand, to take 
leave of the genial host, who was fuming at Bil- 
cox's rudeness. " Good-night, sir, we thank you 
so much for kind entertainment," he continued, 
addressing the Chief Magistrate. 

" Good-night, gentlemen." 

H 


CHAPTER £ZZ. 


THE YELLOW PERIL. 


THE YELLOW PERIL. 


107 


CHAPTER IX. 

The Yellow Peril. 

The political wisdom of Ekra Kwow, the son of 
Kwamankra, was learnt at the feet of his father 
while yet he was in his teens. Being a lad of in- 
quiring mind and quick perception, many a 
curious question did he put to his father on odd 
occasions, when Kwamankra would return answers 
full of pith and marrow. 

' ' What is the meaning of the ' yellow peril ' ? 5 5 
interrogated the precocious youth, as he craned his 
neck behind the chair of the paterfamilias, who 
was leisurely gleaning from the pages of Public 
Opinion. 

Kwamankra raised his eyes from the printed 
matter, and beckoned the young hopeful forward. 
Eyeing the lad curiously, he said, " If you must 
know, I suppose I must give you the lesson, and, 
perhaps, the earlier the better. Now, if you should 
be going to school to-morrow, and at the street 
corner Kweku Mensah knocked off your cap and 
punched your nose, what would you do ? " 

" I would, of course, punch his head back," 
answered the lad triumphantly. 

" Good ! Now let us go a step further. Suppose 

h 2 


108 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


your school fellows were going on a picnic, and 
Kobina Tsintsin's boys met you on the public road 
and barred your progress, would not you brave 
lads fight your way through? " 

££ Of course, dad, what else could we do in 
honour of our school ? 5 ' 

£ £ Now, for the application. In geography 
books you have learnt that different nations dwell 
on the face of the earth — white, yellow, red, brown 
and black like ourselves. They each occupy a 
portion of the earth's surface. Those who occupy 
those tiny islands somewhere in the English 
Channel are, as you know, called the English. So 
you have the Japanese, those brave fellows, the 
Indians, the Africans, or to come down to par- 
ticulars, among the Africans, say, the Zulus, the 
Ashantis, and the Fantis. To give the principle 
which made you punch Kweku Mensah back, and 
your school fellows bravely break through the 
ranks of Kobina Tsintsin's boys, a name, let us 
call it the law of self-preservation. Now, if you 
relax the practice of this principle in the course 
of life, you go under, and men then talk of the 
survivors as the fittest, because they have resisted 
best. You remember those lines in Shakespeare 
you were reciting to me the other day : 

' . Beware 

Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in, 

Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee — ' 


THE YELLOW PERIL. 


109 


iThat is a wholesome rule of life, my boy. Well," 
pursued Kwamankra, ' c there are certain nations 
in the world who call themselves Christians, and 
who claim a monopoly of culture, knowledge and 
civilisation, and who, ergo, think that they have a 
heaven-born right to survive and thrive while all 
others go under. They are mostly whites, and 
when either the brown, or the yellow, or the black 
man resists and shows he does not mean to go 
under, these self-same white Christian people 
hysterically cry out : ' The Yellow Peril,' or the 
' Black Peril,' as the case may be. Do you under- 
stand, my lad ? ' ' laying his hand slowly on the 
child's head, and looking him straight in the face, 
so that the child's eyes met the father's fully and 
meaningly. 

" Yes, I do, dad," replied the lad. " But tell 
me, dad, I did not wish to interrupt you before — 
why did you call the Japs, ' those brave fellows ? "' 

" Why, simply because in the present contest 
they are engaged in with Russia, they have shown 
they do not mean to go under, whoever else may 
do so ; and they have caused the cry of ' the yellow 
peril ' of late to go up more hysterically than 
ever. Listen to this rare bit," said Kwamankra, 
reaching for his scrap album and turning to the 
letter J : " The sacred duty is incumbent upon us, 
as the leading state of Asiatic progress to stretch 
a helping hand to China, India, and Korea, to all 


110 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the Asiatics who have confidence in us, and who 
are capable of civilisation. As their more power- 
ful friend, we desire them all to be free from the 
yoke which Europe has placed upon them, and 
that they may hereby prove to the world that the 
Orient is capable of measuring swords with the 
Occident on any field of battle." These words 
were spoken in the Japanese House of Peers, and 
they embody the principle I have been trying to 
inculcate upon you in a nutshell. You will do 
w T ell to remember them all your life; and since I 
find you an apt pupil likely to pass the lessons on 
to others after I am gone, I will tell you of my 
experiences with the Political Officer." 

" But what is a Political Officer? " queried the 
stripling. 

" There you are again with your inquiring little 
brain. I must begin from premises to conclusion, 
step by step, like the quod erat demonstrandum 
you were worrying me with the other day. Still 
you are right, my boy. Once define clearly, and all 
difficulties vanish, as mist before the noon-day sun. 
Well, the system of Government under which we, 
the people of the Gold Coast, live is known as the 
' Crown Colony system.' It is a system somewhat 
behind the times. Now, what would you boys 
think of your schoolmaster in these enlightened 
days if he should, from time to time, ask you to 
contribute out of your pocket money funds for the 


THE YELLOW PERIL. 


Ill 


laying out of a recreation ground without allowing 
some of you boys to have a say as to how things 
were to be done, and what games were to be bought 
for the school ? I am sure you would all revolt 
and say, ' If you are going to use our money, you 
might at least let us say what games we would 
like.' Under the system I am telling you of the 
schoolmaster is the Governor, and the lads are the 
people of this country whose contributions are in 
the shape of the heavy duties they pay on all 
imported articles. But they have no voice in the 
spending of their contributions, and that is why 
I say the system is somewhat behind the times. To 
proceed, seeing there must be discontent among 
the people, the Political Officer is the man 
appointed to deal with cases arising out of such 
discontent." 

"But how? I don't quite understand, dad. 
Does he go and speak kindly to the people and tell 
them not to mind, and that they will have the value 
of their contributions, if they are patient? " 

Kwamankra burst out hilariously, and for some 
minutes could not control himself. The lad began 
to feel sheepish, and thought he must have said 
something very odd. But, presently Kwamankra 
came to, and a look of sadness seemed to play upon 
his countenance as slowly he murmured to himself 
the words : 

' And its heart as pure as now.' 


112 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Quick as thought, memory had flashed back that 
unique chapter in his life's experience when she 
and he had watched over this very child in infant 
slumbers, bone of their bone, flesh of their flesh, 
and in the fulness of their hearts the prayer had 
gone up : 

" That when time's mystic fingers wrote manhood 
on its brow, 

It's deeds might be as gentle and its heart as 
pure as now." 

And now, he was left alone to help realise that 
prayer in the youthful enquirer. Mastering his 
feelings, and, for the moment rolling a stone over 
the sepulchre of the ever virgin past, Kwamankra 
turned to his son, and drawing him closely to his 
heart, spoke gently thus : " How I wish I could 
keep you, my boy, from knowing the seamy side of 
life. But since knowledge must come some day, 
it were well I guided thee to the sources thereof, if 
so be it might not be all gall to thy thirsty soul." 

" No, the Political Officer does not exactly do 
what one should think, my boy. Here on the 
Gold Coast the people have also shown that they 
do not mean to go under, but in a different way. 
You know the story of the wolf and the lamb. I 
see you are all eagerness. Well, it will bear repe- 
tition. The wolf meets the lamb on a thirsty day 
by a stream. The wolf stands higher up the 
stream and drinks, while the lamb quenches its 


THE YELLOW PERIL. 


113 


thirst in the lower part. Presently Mr. Wolf 
says to Master Lamb, c what do you mean by 
making the stream muddy ? 5 ' How can that be ? ' 

says Master Lamb, c since you are higher up the 
stream than I am.' ' I hear you spoke disrespect- 
fully of me three months ago,' puts in Mr. Wolf. 
Master Lamb meekly : ' I have been in the world 
only two months gone.' ' Well, if it wasn't you,' 
replies the wolf, ' it must have been your father 
who did.' " 

"Coward!" cried Ekra Kwow, excitedly. 
" Don't I wish I were close by with my little pop 
gun ? I should have put a hole through Mr. Wolf 
right enough." 

" Good, my boy, that's well said. But, unfor- 
tunately, it is an every day occurrence in this 
world, and, what is worse, we can't always bring 
to play our pop guns when we may morally be 
justified in doing so." 

' ' But it is high time you were in bed. Another 
time, if you are good, I will tell you all about the 
Political Officer, and my experiences with him, if 
you remind me how far we have come to-day." 

" Good-night, dad ! " 

" Good-night, my boy," and, in a minute, he 
had disappeared behind the curtains, leaving 
Kwamankra to his thoughts and to his pipe. 


CHAPTER X. 


THE BLACK PERIL . 


THE BLACK PERIL. 


115 


CHAPTER X. 

The Black Peril. 

" Here, on the Gold Coast, the people have 
shown that they do not mean to go under, but in 
a different way — " this, as the precocious youth 
produced a sheet of paper with the words neatly 
written down. " I meant not to forfeit the rest 
of the story you see, dad, and now for your 
promise please," drawing a low seat close to the 
paternal chair. 

"I see you have forgotten the illustration but 
not the text, and as other illustrations are easy 
to find," said Kwamankra, " I shall redeem my 
promise. They are scattered over the pages of 
history. In your historical lessons you have un- 
doubtedly heard of what is called the ' Eastern 
Question ? ' " 

"Yes, I have, though I forget what it was 
exactly, and, besides, I learn these things better 
when you tell them to me your way, dad," said 
the lad excitedly. 

" Now, if you will compose yourself, and 


116 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


remember that the story is in illustration of the 
discussion with which we started, namely, the so- 
called ' yellow peril , 5 you will listen to good pur- 
pose, my boy . 55 

The youth bowed assent, and Kwamankra 
began : " It was all the doing of the Russians at 
the start. Years ago they were confined in one 
corner of Asia Minor, having no access to the 
North Sea, the Baltic, or the Black Sea. By-and- 
by the Emperor, Peter the Great, conceived the 
idea of Russian expansion toward the Crimea and 
northward to the Baltic. After him Catherine 
II. of Russia sought to carry into effect the dream 
of Peter the Great, and thenceforth it became the 
national policy of the Russian Bear . 55 

" What do you mean by the Russian Bear ? 55 

' ' It means the Russian in the sense in which we 
talk of John Bull . 55 

" Oh ! go on dad . 55 

" Well, in the pursuit of this policy by the 
Russian Bear, she came in collision with the Turk 
in the Crimea about the time of the Emperor 
Nicolas II. in the fifties of the last century; and 
a casus belli (of course you have been brushing up 
your Latin) was found in the fact, and I wish you 
to note this particularly, that the Turks ill-treated 
the Christians of the Greek Church within the 
Sultan's dominions. You perceive the applica- 
tion of the story of the wolf and the lamb here. 


THE BLACK PERIL. 


117 


don't you? " The youth gave a knowing bow. 
" Well," pursued Kwamankra, "it is a long 
story; but, in the act of self-preservation by the 
Turks, although history recordeth it not in so 
many words, the circumstance constituted in the 
minds of the Russians of the time a ' Muslim 
peril,' do you understand? " 

" Yes, dad," answered the youth eagerly. 
' ' But, surely, the English people have never acted 
thus toward a weaker race. I can well under- 
stand the sneaking bear thus acting, but not 
straightforward John Bull." 

" Well, let us see, I am not so sure about that. 
What of the Opium War with China when 
England coerced China because she insisted upon 
restricting the sale of opium within the Chinese 
Empire, and the ' Lorcha Arrow ' incident not so 
many generations ago, where England picked a 
quarrel with China, because Governor Yen exer- 
cised the right of boarding a Chinese vessel which 
wrongly flew an English flag to cover her piratical 
practices in Chinese waters? Other instances 
might be given, but I can assure you, my dear 
boy, no Christian European nation is free 
from the error of self-assertiveness — none free 
from the taunt of crying ' yellow peril,' or ' black 
peril,' the moment they are confronted with 
resistance in one form or another. They seem to 
carry in the one hand a patent from the Almighty 


118 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


and absolution in the other to snatch away the 
patrimony of others : 

' Why should they live — Fate has writ large its doom 
for them. 

' Land for the whites ! Let the black fellows die ! ' 
the European nations seem to shout, and reck not 
offence to God or man in the cry." 

" But how does all this apply to our country ? " 
asked Ekra Kwow. 

" How does it ? — good ! I like to think you are 
following so closely what the learned books call 
the argument, that is, the immediate subject under 
discussion. Well, I will tell you in one word. 
iThe Political Officer represents the self-assertive- 
ness of the English in extending power and 
authority at every nook and corner wherever the 
thin end of the wedge can be introduced. The 
sagacious black man offers a point of resistance 
when he pleads his peculiar customs and institu- 
tions, and presto ! the cry of the ' educated native 
peril ' is raised, as if forsooth, the ' native ' 
ceases to be a ' native 5 the moment he is educated. 
The genuine cry might be ' the black peril,' but 
that won't do at present. The wolf and the lamb 
story again, you see." 

" But why don't you expose these things, dad? 
You can write, you can talk, why don't you let the 
whole world know of them," said the lad with some 
degree of heat. 


THE BLACK PERIL. 


119 


" Not so fast, my boy," said Kwamankra, 
laying his hand on the child's head, and speaking 
slowly and deliberately, as was his wont when 
about to give vent to some utterance from the very 
recesses of his soul. " I wish you to understand, 
my dear child, that it is neither the anger of the 
powerful, nor the hope of favour from the great 
that has hitherto sealed my lips. I have taught 
you from your infancy to regard truth as the 
highest of all virtues, as the apex of character; 
and he who falls in declaring the truth in his day 
and generation, is but a humble follower of a 
Socrates, or if you prefer it, of the Nazarene. I 
try to follow his example, prepared to suffer if 
needs be in the cause of country, race, and 
humanity," and drawing the child nearer, he 
added in suppressed tones — { ' only the hour is not 
yet come. Pray for thy father, that when it does 
come, he may be found strong and faithful." 


CHAPTER XL 


ON " THE GREAT NORTH WESTERN. 


121 


ON "the great north western." 


CHAPTER XI. 

On cc The Great North [Western." 

" I say, boys, what class are yon travelling," 
shouted Aban to Tandor-Kuma and Kwamankra. 

"I go neither first nor second," returned 
Tandor-Kuma; and as the Gold Coast Government 
Railway boasts of only two classes, Kwamankra 
said, " Look here, you fellows, I am a man of 
peace. If you are going to have any larks, I 
would rather take the down train twenty-four 
hours hence." 

By this time the bell announcing the hour for 
the departure of the train had sounded. So 
Kwamankra rushed to secure a first-class ticket, 
leaving the " Professor " and Tandor-Kuma to 
their own devices. When he returned, the two 
had occupied seats in the first-class compartment 
and started to make themselves merry with the 
good things which Kwamankra had provided for 
the journey. 

" Here's to you and another five hundred a year, 
as the chaps over the water say " — this as the 
" Professor" raised his glass in the direction of 
Kwamankra. Seeing there was no alternative. 


122 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the latter resigned himself to the situation, and 
good-humouredly toasted the company round. 

"Teekets! teekeets!" shouted the collector 
from the second-class end of the ' ' composite 
carriage/' Of course, you know what a " compo- 
site carriage " is? If you don't, I will enlighten 
you. It is the kind of thing on this particular 
railway in which the whites travel at one end, 
their servants and the black elite at the other end, 
while the ordinary blacks are packed like sardines 
in a detached carriage, labelled ££ second-class." 
Not that there is any rule prohibiting black 
gentlemen from using a first-class carriage, but 
the fact is the class referred to know better, and 
have too much self-respect to travel first, except on 
rare occasions when they can have a carriage all 
to themselves. 

To resume, "teekeets! teekeets!" sounded 
nearer. By this time the " Professor " was in 
the middle of a Mississippi story, and his brush 
with buffaloes and other hair-breadth escapes. 
After taking a cheap degree, with his usual 
erratic disposition, Aban had been travelling, 
often supporting himself by odd jobs, and had 
included in his experiences an acquaintance with 
the Japs of whom he was never tired of speaking. 
The ticket collector eyed the three black gentlemen 
furtively once or twice, and seemed to have come 
to a mental resolve not to disturb them for the 


123 


ON " THE GREAT NORTH WESTERN." 

nonce, nor did the trio disturb him by so much as 
a momentary notice of his presence. 

Just as he was about retreating to the second- 
class compartment, Kwamankra shouted after 
him, " I say, collector, won't you have a drink? " 
holding out to him some whisky and soda — " the 
others do it, you know," and this with a knowing 
w T ink. 

The collector was human. He hesitated, then 
made up his mind, took the drink, and went away. 
Presently he returned and became communicative. 

"I don't know, Sar, if any of you, Sar, be 
lawyer man, Sar ? ' 5 

Tandor-Ivuma chuckled. " What next," 
demanded the "Professor " sternly. Kwamankra 
held his peace, appearing not to listen. 

"I don't know, Sar, but I bin tink say I da 
go show you di rules which say di collector mus 
examin ebery gentman him teekeet." 

Kwamankra began to fumble in his pockets. 
" My good man," said the " Professor " to the 
collector, ' ' I have made it a rule never to give up 
my ticket on this line till I have landed safely at 
my destination, do you understand ? ' ' 

The emphasis seemed to upset the equilibrium 
of the collector. He sneaked away, may be, to 
reflect upon the advantage of an emphasis, and 
sure enough, he was soon heard letting off steam 
in the second-class compartment at the expense of 
an inoffensive Fanti. i 2 


124 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


By this time the train had passed Mansu. 
Shortly after leaving that station there was some 
trouble with one of the vans getting off the rails; 
and it was a matter of half-an-hour before it was 
set right. Half-way between Mansu and 
Ashieme, some timber was taken, and as they 
steamed away in the twilight, the train with its 
composite appendages was a full furlong long ! 
Soon they were in thick darkness. 

"Light, collector, light!" — this from Kwa- 
mankra, for in the detached carriage could be 
heard yells and shrieks of women and children. 

' ' I say, collector, light ! Do you hear ? 
Light ! 5 ' and this with an expletive or two from 
the " Professor." The expletive did its work. 
The collector made his way to the composite car- 
riage amid a scene of much confusion. 

"You had better go and fetch the Inspector to 
see about this mess, or I will report the whole lot 
of you fellows, white and black alike. It is per- 
fectly disgraceful, this kind of thing," said 
Tandor-Kuma. 

The Inspector, who had, in the meantime, been 
hurried to the detached compartment by the 
shrieks of the women and children, had by this 
time got into the composite carriage. 

' £ What the deuce are you doing not having yet 
lighted the carriage," he said to the collector with 
an offended air. 


ON "the great north western." 125 

"I no get mach, Sar ! Railway no buy me 
mach, Sar ! 5 ' 

The Inspector made as if he would knock the 
collector down, but thought better of the matter, 
and, snatching a borrowed match box, quickly 
tried to light the lamp. Puff ! went out the light. 

" Try again, Sir," suggested Kwamankra dryly. 

' ' There may be a drop of water in the oil." Puff ! 
went out the light the second time. 

" Try again! try again ! " came from all sides. 
" Shall I get out and buy you some paraffin, Mr. 
Inspector? You know this is perfectly disgrace- 
ful. Thirteen shillings for thirty-nine miles and 
no oil," said Tandor-Kuma. 

" Try again ! try again ! knock him down, teach 
him a lesson," shouted some roughs. It was 
getting a bit exciting. The Inspector beat a hasty 
retreat. 

" They call dis di Govmont railway. It is di 
dirtiest hole I have been in. South Africa, East 
Africa, North Africa, they be countries. Dis 
country is disgraceful to the British Govmont," 
put in a Frenchman at the corner. 

Pu ! pu ! pu ! piyu ! ! Pu ! pu ! piyu! ! came the 
heartbreaking snort from the nostrils of the iron 
horse. It reminded one of an overworked omnibus 
horse at midnight in Oxford Street. First back- 
wards, then downwards, up the incline, and down 
the gradient, toyed the iron horse, and as Tandor- 


126 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


Kuma thought of his wife and children wait- 
ing dinner in the cosy little room across the 
bridge, he could not help inwardly bestowing a 
blessing upon the devil and all his works. It was 
not until 9.30 p.m. that the terminus was made, 
the party having left on their 39 miles run at 
2.30 p.m. As the trio walked the lonely streets, 
where black men are scarcely seen after sunset, 
the Professor, as a parting reminder, said to 
Kwamankra, " On principle I never pay for a 
ticket on this line until I have made the terminus, 
and if you are a wise man, you will take my tip."- 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


127 


CHAPTER XII. 

A Leader of Society. 

Tom Palmer, the son of Jonathan Palmer, of 
Horse Road, Ussher Town, Accra, was a goodly 
youth of many fine qualities. The Palmers 
originally hailed from Sierra Leone, settling on 
the Gold Coast early in the fifties of the last cen- 
tury. By dint of great energy, combined with 
uncommon business tact, the first Palmer had 
gradually won for himself a competence which the 
second Palmer, with equal tact, had gone on 
improving, so that when it came to the turn of 
Jonathan Palmer, he was looked up to as a man 
of wealth, position, and influence in the community 
of Accra. 

Jonathan Palmer had contented himself with 
money making, but his son and heir, the goodly 
Tom Palmer, had combined book-learning with his 
other accomplishments, and gone to the extent of 
taking the L.Th. degree at the College in Free- 
town, though he never had the intention of 
entering the Church. He was fond of controversy, 
and as the L.Th. course combined a certain amount 
of historical information, he had followed it so 


128 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


as to be able to hold his own against all comers, 
as he pugilistically put it. For a calling he had 
chosen agriculture, and was an expert in the 
secrets of soils, manures, and seasons. Not that 
he practised agriculture, as men practise medicine 
for example. Oh, dear no ! He was a dilettante 
and no more. It was enough for him to be able 
to say with truth, I am a scientific agriculturist, 
and I can give you a point or two. Besides, in a 
community like Accra, where every respectable 
citizen has a calling, it would not have done to 
appear a loafer. 

Tom Palmer was an ambitious youth. His aim 
in life was to be the leader of society in the com- 
munity where it had pleased Providence to place 
his father and his father's father before him. 
His was the family fortune by right after the 
pater was gone. He would be the leader of the 
black aristocracy. What was there to prevent it ? 
And, so, he set to work with a will. The cut of 
his coat was always up to date, and, on the 
Sabbath, he studiously appeared in church in a 
silk hat and patent leather boots, and never forgot 
his button-hole and gloves of approved style, 
though he was never guilty of the solecism of 
wearing the latter by reason of the tropical tem- 
perature. For the same reason also he generally 
wore his coat sleeves a little turned up, so as to 
show plenty of linen, and the tips of his trousers 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


129 


followed suit, so that you could count the white 
buttons on his boots. Other youths of his genera- 
tion looked on admiringly — looked on, and pined, 
and strove to be like him in appearance, and many 
succeeded, though they had not Tom Palmer's 
culture, for which his early associations were 
responsible or his money. 

Freetown is an advanced African community. 
Notwithstanding the fact that some, not having 
the fear of God in their hearts, have thought 
it fit to malign her in print, still the reader 
may take it from the writer that it is a 
community that has nothing to be ashamed 
of. It has produced many a distinguished 
citizen, remarkable alike for intellectual attain- 
ments as for business enterprise and success, 
so much so, that Her late Majesty had thought 
it not amiss to bestow the honour of knighthood 
upon one of her esteemed sons. Besides, the city 
boasts of a cathedral, a rarity in the West African 
Dependencies. The singing is one of the finest 
on the West Coast, and men like Canon Spain, 
Canon Wilson, and Canon Moore, all black clerics, 
would do honour to any English See. It was no 
wonder, therefore, that Tom Palmer was truly 
proud of his Alma Mater , the Fourah Bay College, 
duly affiliated to Durham University, and of the 
City of Freetown, the Mecca of West Africa. 
Truly, if there was one thing more than another 


130 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


for which Tom Palmer revered the memory of his 
paternal grandfather, it was the utter unselfish- 
ness with which he had transmitted the savings of 
his father before him to his son Jonathan, and 
the likelihood of the latter obeying the paternal 
injunction to transmit, in his turn, the family 
fortune to the next generation, that is, to him, 
Tom Palmer. Yet, for all that, he could not 
quite forgive his great forebear for quitting the 
thriving community by the banks of the Roquelle 
at the time he did. 

With all the lightness of manner we have seen 
in the subject of this sketch, yet must it be placed 
to his credit that he was generally most careful 
when taking any important step in life; and to 
all the vexed questions in West African social life, 
perhaps to none had he given such close study as 
the marriage one. For, mark you, Tom Palmer's 
aim in life was to be the leader of society, the 
wankora wonkor, as a Fanti would say, in social 
life at headquarters. Yet he could not make up 
his mind somehow to do the thing. He had dis- 
cussed the matter several times with friends 
without ever coming to a satisfactory issue, and it 
was, therefore, with particular relish that in 
conversation with Kwamankra one day, who was 
at Accra about this time for the Agricultural 
Show, he managed to introduce his favourite 
theme. Nor can we blame him. Every young 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


131 


man contemplating marriage does it. He worries 
everyone he meets upon the subject upon the 
slightest encouragement, until finally he makes a 
fool of himself, or escapes by the skin of his teeth. 

»V, .AA. JA. JA. 

*/v" ¦7Y' •7V' •7V* 

With an old world complaint upon her lips, the 
master philosopher met the complainant with the 
hint that one thing, after all, was essential. We 
all know the story, but some have, perhaps, not 
noted the human side of it. The complainant was 
plainly jealous of the marked attention the master 
philosopher paid to the younger sister. Her 
womanly instinct told her that the latter was fast 
discovering " the one thing needful." Her self- 
love asserted itself in the request, " Bid her that 
she help me." A charwoman's aid would have 
been as good. But, truth to tell, she would herself 
sit at the great man's feet, if she only knew how. 
It may be, thoughts like these were passing 
through Kwamankra's mind, as he slowly repeated 
more to himself than to his companion, the words 
of the teacher: " But one thing is needful! " 
then somewhat abruptly turning to the young man 
he said, " You are making the same mistake that 
most of us have made. We seem to think that love 
only comes when she is wooed in Parisian skirts 
and Regent Street high heels. Know then, my 
friend, that spiritual sympathy, like the wind, 
comes we know not whence. Happy the discerning 


132 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


ones who recognise the Queen of Heaven in what- 
ever guise she approaches the waiting soul." 

The young man was puzzled. He spoke his 
thoughts aloud. " What has all this to do with 
what I heard you muttering about the one thing 
needful?" 

££ What to do with it? I should think it has 
all to do with it," said Kwamankra gravely. 
££ You have read the story, I daresay. The master 
finds a haven, a restful place, in the home of this 
particular family. Sympathy springs up between 
him and her who loved to sit at his feet, drinking 
in, as a thirsty soul, every word that fell from his 
lips. Interpret the master's sentiment as you 
may. But there is no need to disguise the fact 
that Mary had found the secret of life." 

££ But then, all this is beside the question, if 
you will permit me to say so. The sympathy 
between Christ and Mary was a thing apart, a 
spiritual relationship, if I may so put it. How 
can you talk of it in the same breath with mundane 
matters — with the vulgar thing which men profess 
and affect," said Tom Palmer, warming up to the 
subject in a way that interested his companion 
greatly. 

Kwamankra eyed the young man for a second 
or two, and then said with a slight tremor in his 
voice, ££ If Jesus was not truly mundane, he would 
have no interest for you and me. Besides, if you 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


133 


knew of the gift of the gods, you would not speak 
of love in the way you have done. At one time I 
was of like mind as you are, but riper experience 
has taught me that there is nothing vulgar in 
love, and that the feeling, in whatever guise it 
exhibits itself, will be found, in its last analysis, 
to be the self-same thing, and remember then, that 
where love is, there God is. Great love, great 
soul ! As the streams flow into the rivers, and 
the rivers into the sea, and yet the sea is not full, 
even so does universal sympathy, from the cooing 
of the dove to the fervent heat of a Romeo, find its 
diapason in the God of Love." 

" I must confess," said the young man, " that 
this way of looking at the matter is altogether new 
to me. But am I to understand that you would 
find excuse for the kind of sympathy that flies off 
at a tangent here, there, and everywhere ? 5 ' 

" I will state you a stranger proposition then," 
said Kwamankra quietly. " Remember, my 
young friend, to begin with, that love is a spiritual 
magnetic force, and as I showed at the beginning 
of our talk, like the wind it bloweth where it 
listeth. Remember also that there are affinities 
and repulsions where one might least expect. 
Oftentimes one starts from the north pole, another 
from the south, and the magnetic force draws 
them on and on until they meet, and, in this sense, 
are we the children of circumstances. Now, think 


134 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


of it. Here is a man of great magnetic force, 
evoking sympathy and love wherever he goes. 
But he is a mere man. The corresponding force 
which he attracts and calls into play here and 
there becomes created entities, begging for life and 
claiming the right to live. Tell me, what is the 
duty of the giver of this life, under God, or to 
put it materially, the creator of this force ? 
Must he allow free scope to the play of sympathy, 
or must be ruthlessly set to work to destroy the 
hope of light which he bids spring up in a human 
soul?" 

"Again, I do not understand you, unless you 
would imply nothing material in what you say." 

" I have said nothing that is difficult to under- 
stand," pursued Kwamankra. " Bear in mind I 
am speaking of true love. I am not referring to 
a mere wild senseless passion, the result of egoism, 
the kind of thing which finds satisfaction in 
multiplying wives, and, from that point of view, 
I speak of things spiritual rather than material. 
This, then, I say that no one who has the capacity 
to evoke sympathy in the human soul has the right 
ruthlessly to quench the fire once his flame has 
kindled. I will tell you a story, if you care to 
listen." 

" Go on, please," said the young man. 

" Well, here it is. ' Once upon a time there 
lived a youth who in the heyday of joyous inex- 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


135 


perience, as he chanced by a certain out-of-the-way 
village, evoked love in the breast of a young 
damsel much below him in degree, and he wot not 
the full meaning of what he had done. The years 
rolled leisurely past, and her lover never returned. 
In the meanwhile, he had become great, gotten 
himself honour and riches, and, withal, love 
besides, as he thought. Now and again in the dim 
recesses of memory a recollection of the maiden 
would come back to him ; but he would say, that is 
a thing of the past, let the dead past bury its dead. 
But, as obeying some irresistible impulse, day by 
day, the thought gained upon him. What was at 
first a mere curiosity to know what had become of 
her, grew in intensity until it ended in a regular 
quest. Abroad he bade his servants go, if, haply, 
some news might come of her for whom his soul 
panted. But no news came. At last he gave up 
hope, and seemed to take no delight in his goodly 
surroundings, nay, not even in his wife, nor in 
his children and his home. One day, outside the 
city gate, as he returned from a lonely walk, he 
saw walking towards him the self-same woman 
whom youthful inexperience turned not back to 
see. Their eyes met. They had both aged so. 
They had also suffered. She frankly put forth 
her hands. His touched hers. " At last ! " she 
exclaimed, " my woman's heart told me sooner or 
later we should meet again." " And mine has 


136 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


been long lonely without thee," he said. " More- 
over, riper knowledge has taught me that in the 
kingdom of love, nothing is ever lost." 5 " 

The story ended, the teller paused for a second, 
and then added, ' ' Maybe you will now see in a 
truer light the one thing needful which shall not 
be taken away from her." 

.v. jf. «U. .V. 

¦7V *A* •7V •7V •7V 

" Now putting philosophy aside for the moment, 
I daresay you have flirted. a little in your time," 
said Kwamankra, good-humouredly, then, with a 
mischievous twinkle, " and you may have a child, 
a poor nameless one, in some out-of-the-way 
corner of the world. You needn't be shy about it. 
All of us do do it, though not all of us are men 
enough to own it. Now, believe me, my friend, 
any child of Eve, who has deliberately become the 
mother of your child is worthy of your love, and 
to treat her as an outcast is to be unworthy of the 
name of a man. In this wise, we pagans are 
more Christ-like than so-called Christians. £ He 
that is without sin among you, let him first cast 
a stone at her. And again, He stooped down and 
wrote on the ground,' " he quoted somewhat 
irrelevantly, then continued : " In Africa, she is 
protected ; she is a wife. Call it polygamy, if you 
like. In so-called Christian countries she is des- 
pised, a prostitute, a leper." 


A LEADER OF SOCIETY. 


137 


In the fullness of time, Tom Palmer got 
married. None of his wives sought to be a leader 
of society, and he was well content. He himself 
did not seem likely, now that he had come to his 
heritage, that he would fulfil the promise of his 
early ambition. In due course the little ones came 
— so gladsome their little black faces wherever 
they appeared, the fulfilment of the radiant love 
which gave them birth. And as the years rolled 
by, it was sure that his girls were growing up to 
be useful members of the community, for Tom 
Palmer had made up his mind that he would have 
no Parisian skirts or Regent Street high-heeled 
nonsense, as he bluntly put it, nor would he ever 
condescend to explain himself. 


K 


CHAPTER XIII. 


REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. 


REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. 


139 


CHAPTER XIII. 


Reaping the Whirlwind. 

Tandor-Kuma lay sick with malaria. The fast 
boat that should have borne him to the bosom of 
his family had come and gone. In his dreams he 
had been talking wildly, and asking when the boat 
would be in. 

It was not without reason that his uppermost 
thoughts seemed to hover about the movements of 
the steamers. There was in this house where he 
lay stricken, as a nurse, the mother of his first 
child — the kind of child the world sneers at and 
elects to ignore, who, nevertheless thrives and 
prospers to the amazement of those who talk glibly 
of the inscrutable ways of Providence. 

He had hoped that in the few days he had to 
spend upon the business which brought him down, 
he would be so occupied and pressed with engage- 
ments, that he could very well manage to evade 
meeting more than in a casual way the mother of 
his child. And now a fortnight must elapse 

k 2 


140 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


before be would be well enough to travel, and 
during that time what was to happen ? 

It is an unpleasant truth that in the first flush 
of the shame of the mother of his child, instead of 
bearing up bravely and sharing the shame with 
her, like the coward man that he was, he had gone 
so far as to protest that he was not the father of 
the child, and had allowed her alone to pass 
through the valley of humiliation; but the God 
whom she had wronged, according to the theolo- 
gians, had not suffered her to be entirely crushed. 
Meanwhile, Tandor-Kuma had succeeded in life, 
mounted up steadily in his calling, been happily 
married, and was a most respectable member of 
society. To do him justice, he was absolutely true 
to his wife, whom he loved, and never meant to be 
otherwise. In fact the contrast between his early 
escapades and his present constancy and devotion 
to his family was the common talk of those who 
had known him in early life. 

And here was he, after all these years, con- 
fronted with the same forbidden fruit of his early 
days. He was young and full of fire in those days, 
it is true. He had fallen then. Was it likely he 
could resist now that he began to feel the same old 
witchery taking possession of his heart, and 
making a fool of him, if not in deed, in very 
intention? " O, God! " he cried, ardently and 
sincerely, " save me from this."- But even while 


REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. 


141 


lie cried, another voice within him said, "What 
does it matter? Is it your fault that you are 
stranded here? " 

In the domestic arrangements of a L W est 
African home there is hardly any system; and so 
it happens that the master or mistress orders about 
the nearest hand available. This was a kind of 
hospital home. What was more natural than 
that Ekuba should gradually work her way to the 
bedside of him whom her heart adored? When 
the fever had abated a bit, now and again she 
would steal in with some daintily prepared 
refreshment which she would coax the patient to 
partake of. She would often stay to say a word 
and to smooth his pillows. On such occasions 
Tandor-Kuma would seem ill at ease, and appear 
as if struggling with some inward emotion. 

Careful nursing had brought Tandor-Kuma 
back to health; but, as it sometimes happens in 
West Africa, the boat that was to take the con- 
valescent home had not turned up according to 
the time-table, and time was hanging most pain- 
fully on his hands; and every day the Titan of 
sheer sympathy was tightening its grasp stronger 
and stronger round his heart, leaving his senses 
reeling. 

One evening Ekuba came to clear away the 
supper and found Tandor-Kuma sitting at a 
'Corner of the room reading, the others having gone 


142 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


to a Fanti concert. She boldly drew a chair, and 
sat down near him. 

£C What a jolly thing your steamer delaying 
like this. Supposing she did not come for another 
week or so, I wonder whatever will happen? " 
Tandor-Kuma raised up a finger deprecatingly. 

" I know," continued Ekuba, not heeding the 
warning one little bit, " that you are dying to get 
back to the bosom of your dear family — that is 
what they call it, isn't it? But what must be* 
must be." 

" What do you mean, Ekuba, you talk rather 
strangely to-night." 

cc I simply mean this, that I have missed you 
badly all these years, and now that the spirits of 
my fathers have thrown you in my way once more, 
surely you will not begrudge me a little of your 
society. I took a job here with your kinsman, the 
doctor, feeling sure you would one day turn up." J 

" Don't talk like that, Ekuba. You know I 
must be careful. I am a married man, and I must 
think of my wife and children." 

"If it comes to that," she said, " I am your 
first wife, and the second is an interloper." So 
saying, she burst out into a wild laugh. The 
situation was becoming perilous and yet comical, 
and Tandor-Kuma could not restrain a laugh too. 
Here he was with the woman, who first raised 
sympathy in him, confronting him with a naivete 


REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. 


143 


that was quite unusual. Should he repulse her ? 
He quickly decided that the wisest course was to 
humour her and talk the matter out in a half- 
bantering, half-serious way with her. 

"You know," said Ekuba, taking advantage of 
a momentary pause on the part of Tandor-Kuma, 
" the last time you were here, and you had to go 
away so suddenly, when I came and found you 
were gone, I was so sorry," looking at Tandor- 
Kuma defiantly. 

" Were you? I am not surprised. You see we 
all make mistakes in life, and we are expected to 
pull ourselves together and go straight after. If 
not, often the last stage is worse than the first. 
You don't wish to see me down, do you? " 

' ' It depends upon what you mean by seeing you 
down. Kobina had to come, and nothing could 
prevent it; and I have waited all these years," 
repeating the last words with a slow emphasis 
and a weariness of tone which struck Tandor- 
Kuma awkwardly. 

' ' If you talk like that, I shall never come to this 
place again, when I go away this time." 

" It doesn't matter; I shall wait; and it may be 
some sudden business or family matter will bring 
you down." 

Tandor-Kuma revolved in his mind how to meet 
this flank move. Meanwhile she continued : ' You 
know I go to chapel? Last night the minister 


144 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


told us in his address that, once upon a time, there 
was a king who was in the habit of killing his 
subjects for no good reason. One day he sent for 
a parson. The good man feared and wondered 
whatever was going to happen. He made excuses, 
but eventually had to go. While going he broke 
his leg. It took some days to set him right, and he 
was well enough to continue his journey. When 
he arrived at the king's palace, he was dead, and 
so the parson was saved." She stopped short, 
eyeing the man she loved feverishly. 

£t Well? " interrogated Tandor-Kuma. 

" Well, simply this that what must be must be, 
and what must not be must not be — that is the rule 
of the gods " — pointing her little chin up triumph- 
antly. £ £ And after all, ' ' she went on, £ £ was it 
such a grave error ? You know the murderer was 
not saved, but the thief was." 

££ But what if the thief went on stealing," 
retorted Tandor-Kuma. ££ It is like going against 
the light." 

££ Light, then darkness," Ekuba put in with a 
far away look in her eyes. 

££ Yes, but when the light comes, then darkness 
goes away," suggested Tandor-Kuma. 

It was all very fine, this toying with fine phrases 
and sentiments when passion answered to passion 
in the breasts of two human beings. Ekuba lapsed 
into silence, and it was evident that both man and 


REAPING THE WHIRLWIND. 


145 


woman were struggling with the same inward 
emotion. 

" But tell me," Tandor-Kuma incautiously 
broke out, " what made you run away from me 
the last time I was here before I got married. 5 ' 

' £ How simple you men are ? I ran away from 
you? It was not so. I simply went to avoid 
compromising you in any way." 

Tandor-Kuma would have liked a little time to 
reflect. But suddenly Ekuba swept away the 
supper things, and, in a moment, she was gone. 

The next morning, a gentle tap was heard at 
the door of Tandor-Kuma, and a voice from within 
said, " come in." Ekuba boldly entered, and 
placing down some clean linen, flung herself at 
Tandor-Kuma's feet, who was already dressed and 
reclining in a low chair by the open window. 
Tandor-Kuma got up and faced her. 

" What is this you have done," he said under 
his breath, perceiving the awkwardness of the 
situation. Eor answer Ekuba got up and 
deliberately locked the door upon the outside 
world. Then facing the man, she said, " Tandor- 
Kuma, these many years my heart has hungered 
for your sympathy, and now that the gods have 
brought you back to me, surely, you will not deny 
me one kind word. Just say you care for me a 
little. That is all I want." 

Tandor-Kuma made a move as if he would 


146 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


unbolt the door. In that instant Ekuba held him 
spell-bound with a look so pitiful, so imploring, 
so passionate that he quailed before her gaze. He 
hesitated, then wavered. The next moment he 
completely broke down. Erring love had con- 
quered, that was all. 


THE BLACK MAN'S BURDEN. 


147 


CHAPTER XIV. 

The Black Man's Burden. 

A bamboo shanty, doing service as a Methodist 
place of worship at the end of a " High Street," 
with a mud house roofed with corrugated iron, 
doing service for Belial, with gin shops and sheds 
studded all along the line at short intervals at 
the other end — such is a typical scene in a well- 
known growing African community in the neigh- 
bourhood of the thriving mines on the Gold Coast 
railway. It is a terrible scourge, a veritable 
canker, eating its way slowly, yet surely, into the 
very vitals of the life of the black people among 
whom this plague of modern civilisation is 
planted. 

It is the Christian Sabbath and the hour of 
morning service. Ding, dong ! ding, dong ! goes 
the bell, calling the devotional black folk of the 
community to worship. They are not inattentive 
to the call, if one may judge from the group after 
group of men, women, and children wending their 
way up the little rising on whose summit stands 
the House of God. The women far outnumber 
the men, and the house is filled to its utmost 
capacity. At a corner, all by himself, sits a son 


148 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


of Albion, a man of independent character, the 
butt of the camp, who dares to worship with the 
black folk on this holy day. It is a motley 
gathering of all conditions of men in all sorts of 
costumes from the latest Regent Street cutaway 
coat to the ample four fathoms of Manchester 
calico print, gracefully wound round the person. 
At 10.30 of the clock there mounts the pulpit a 
black parson who, from that hour till 11.50, reads 
Psalms and Litanies and hymns to the melody of 
an inharmonious portable American organ. No 
wonder half the congregation go to sleep, and the 
beadles have their work cut out for the rest of the 
morning. One of their number, aggravated by the 
extra rise in the thermometer, is a bit aggressive, 
and no wonder that a distinct unchristian scowl 
is clear on the face of a Christian gentleman 
sitting next to the observer. 

Meanwhile, the reverend seigneur is discoursing 
in an unknown tongue to the majority of the con- 
gregation for all he is worth, and when he conde- 
scends at length to render the sermon into the 
vernacular, the finest Job-type in the congregation 
is not listening, but wondering when this labyrinth 
of a service will end. In the meanwhile, what of 
the house of Belial ? 

" Pretty polly ! pretty polly ! how do do? Quite 
well, thank you, pretty polly! tut! tut! are the 
\arious sounds that attract the attention of the 


THE BLACK MAN S BURDEN. 


149 


wayfaring man from the throats of half-a-dozen 
tropical birds attached to the house of Belial. It 
is true the worshippers are but few and far 
between, mostly, and, in fact, nearly all, of one 
race. But their worship is real, sincere, and 
earnest. The black folk are beginning to under- 
stand and to appreciate that there is other worship 
than that of God, and that both are taught by the 
white man's fetish which they call civilisation. 

But a livelier scene remains yet to be described. 
The inmates of the gin shops are issuing forth in 
their tens and larger groups. They dance and 
gesticulate, as if seized by some evil spirit, and the 
uproar is worthy the confusion and the clamour of 
the nether regions. That is also the white man's 
work. 

And so it happens that the black man along the 
line is sorely pressed by a three-fold burden — the 
burden of allurement in the shape of gin drinking ; 
allurement in the shape of houses of ill-fame ; the 
bantering hypocrisy of the allurer. Heavens 
what curse is equal unto this curse ! 

Meanwhile, from the Moslem quarter of the 
village community at dawn, noon, and dusk goes 
forth the voice of the Muezzin, as from the minarets 
of Mecca, calling unto the faithful to prayer. 
They drink neither wine nor strong drinks, nor 
suffer them to come near their habitations the 
unclean thing. They keep alive their primitive 


150 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


simplicity and faith, combining Godliness with 
contentment. It is a struggle between the Cross 
and the Crescent. Which will win ? It looks as 
if the Crescent will win in the end, judging by 
the Divine standard of life; and yet Christ is 
stronger than Mahomet. But the House of Christ 
is divided against itself, because the men of that 
House, nay, the very leaders and the lamp bearers, 
are untrue ! 

"Good evening, Sir," said a white miner to 
Kwamankra. " Can you tell me where the West 
Indian gentleman who plays the guitar lives? " 

" Certainly; if you will step over here I will 
show you," said Kwamankra, rising up from his 
simple evening repast. " You know the market 
place; if you will walk straight down and take the 
first turning to your left, I believe you will find 
him in the first house but one." 

Kwamankra settled down to his meal, thankful 
to have got rid of what threatened to be a serious 
interruption to his thoughts. 

In ten minutes the miner came back. " May I 
come in ? " he asked. 

" Yes, do," replied Kwamankra. 

" I did not find him; they say he has gone down 
to the Coast. What is your name ? 3 3 essayed the 
miner; " you speak English so well. Are you a 
lawyer ? 33 He spoke a little thickly. Kwamankra 
did not answer, but put on a whimsical look which 


THE BLACK MAN'S BURDEN. 


151 


said as nearly as possible, " what if I am? " at 
the same time beckoning the miner to take a seat. 

"You know I have seen you somewhere before. 
Your face is familiar. It must have been on the 
train," persisted the miner. 

" Yes, I come up and down here pretty often." 

" You know I came down to-night on purpose to 
have a little fun with the photographer over the 
way. I am good for a right down American sing- 
song, and, if you don't mind, we can have a fine 
time together." 

"No, thank you, I have some writing work to 
do, and I must be getting on before bedtime. 
Kofi, please show this gentleman round to the 
photographer's across the way " — addressing his 
servant on the verandah. 

" Oh, may I have a drink' of water? " 

" I have some Tuborg beer, excellent stuff; per- 
haps you will find that pleasanter — Kofi, fetch 
some beer." The miner subsided into the com- 

l 

fortable canvas chair round the corner. 

" .Well, Boss," he pursued, " I know of a little 
job I can put in your way. There is a man in my 
camp who has worked for one year and fourteen 
days, and just because he had a little fun to-day, 
he has been turned adrift, and he is to pay his 
passage back home. Now, do you think that's 
f air ? If you will take up the matter, I will send 
him round in the morning. What name shall I 


152 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


say? " The same quizzical look and a smile by 
way of encouragement to get on and be finished 
with the business was all the response Kwamankra 
gave. 

Meanwhile, the miner drained his second glass 
of Tuborg beer. He grew more confiding. "You 
know," he said, " they want me up there to do a 
platelayer's work; but old B. insists upon paying 
me only fifteen bob a day, and, as I am no fool, I 
keep my ' sabi ' there," pointing significantly to 
his head. ' ' Besides, they think I am too familiar 
with the black people, and when they see me sitting 
down and drinking with them, they don't like it; 
but I don't care. There is no part of this district 
I have not been to, and the Fantis have always 
behaved to me like gentlemen, and I am always 
ready to do them a good turn. You know old B. 
wanted to play me the same trick as my pal. He 
says to me the other day, ' You are drunk, and, if 
this occurs again, away you go bag and baggage.' 
Mind you, I wasn't drunk. To-day I got drunk, 
and I go up and says to him : c Now, Mr. B., I am 
drunk, and very drunk too, and if you are a man 
come out in your shirt sleeves, and we shall have it 
out.' He was as tame as a lamb " — this almost in 
a whisper, accompanied by a low laugh. 
Kwamankra joined in it heartily. 

"Kofi, show this gentleman the way to the 
photographer's — mind you, Sir, there are ditches 
in the way," said Kwamankra. 


THE BLACK MAN'S BURDEN. 


153 


" Good-night, Sir," returned the miner. In 
another ten minutes he had returned. Kwamankra 
was busy with his scribbling. He hardly dared 
interrupt the flow of ideas. 

" The photographer is out, I am told," 
explained the miner. 

" Very good, Sir — good night," said Kwa- 
mankra, hardly looking up from his writing. 

" As a last favour, would you mind showing me 
where I can find a bed for the night ? I am told 
there is a hotel about here." 

t: I am sure I don't know of one, and I would 
advise you to get back to your camp," said 
Kwamankra, fixing a penetrating glance upon the 
miner, which said plainly, £ I wonder if you are an 
honest man.' With this the miner vanished into 
the outer darkness, but the story is silent the while 
whether the same operation was not repeated else- 
where that night. 

The next day Kwamankra was due down the 
Coast, and he took the afternoon train with the 
' ' Professor ' ' for a companion. The second-class 
compartment was full, so they travelled first, and 
though there were many angry glances, none dared 
question them. Kennedy Bilcox, the Political 
Officer, was also going down by the same train, and 
being minded to be gracious, and having had an 
extra parting glass more than was good for him, 
he was inclined to be confiding. Besides, though 


L 


154 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


he immensely disliked men of colour, he judged it 
politic outwardly to be on the best of terms with 
the leaders of the people. He thought he gained 
their confidence that way. Rather he raised their 
suspicions, and was accordingly mistrusted. 

On this auspicious occasion, he was full of the 
big things he had done up country — how he had 
metaphorically thrashed the Chief of Tandosu 
into humility, and how he crouched before him 
with fear, poor man ! Presently he turned to 
Kwamankra and said : " I say, do you know that 
rascal Kobina Bua? I hear he is your client. 
You had better advise him to behave properly in 
future, or, by Jove, he will find himself at St. 
Jago." 

" But what has he done? 55 queried 
Kwamankra. 

' ' What has he done ? Why the fool is perpetu- 
ally drunk, has lost all sense of decency, and is 
always making a ' palaver " at Tandosu." 

" Oh, is that all? " said Kwamankra, pro- 
vokingly. 

" You do surprise me, Mr. Kwamankra. To 
think that a man of your position and education 
should see nothing to condemn in the disgraceful 
conduct of Kobina Bua ! 5 5 

" Personally I condemn no man, but since you 
talk of condemnation, permit me to point out to 
you that the greater condemnation lies at the door 


THE BLACK MAN'S BURDEN. 155 

-of the Government whom yon represent, and whose 
servant you are. You condemn Kobina Bua, and 
you presume to do so by reason of the fact that you 
are a Political Officer. As a fair-minded man, 
let me invite you to look at the other side of the 
picture. You know that trade gin contains fusel 
¦oil and other deadly noxious ingredients. You 
also know that that is the stuff the Government 
permit to be imported into the country and which 
¦eventually finds its way down the throats of 
' rascals ' like Kobina Bua. You dare not stop 
the importation of the vile stuff. Why ! because 
it would affect salaries and pensions and duty 
allowances and other perquisites. In the name of 
reason, how can you expect the average black man 
having the means to indulge in gin drinking to 
keep his head and behave decently ? And so when 
a Government Officer pays a visit to one of these 
otherwise harmless African dignitaries, and he is 
received by the latter with extra warmth, where- 
upon the Officer losing his self-control, vents upon 
him his wrath in eloquent periphrasis and damn- 
ing reports reach headquarters, the observer, if he 
is a seeker after truth, certainly feels tempted to 
tap the Officer lightly on the back and say : ' Thou 
hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine eye, and 
then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of 
thy brother's eye.' " Kennedy Bilcox appeared 
thunderstruck, but Kwamankra, unheeding, con- 

l 2 


156 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


tinued : " You know, and the whole world knows, 
that if the black chief and his people stopped con- 
suming the vile stuff the merchants offer them, the 
whole machinery of Government would stop 
running for want of the necessary grease. You 
are a Christian, of course. When you meet your 
friends, and, in conclave, you are inclined to be 
hard on my client, remind yourselves of the 
Master's saying : £ Ye make clean the outside of 
the cup and platter ... ye tithe mint and 
rue and all manner of herbs and pass over judg- 
ment and the love of God.' " 

«Y_. J/. 

-7V* *7r *Jv* *7V* -Tv* 

As the Professor and Kwamankra shook hands 
at the station, the former said to his friend : 
" Those were brave words. But you may be sure 
this kind of thing will get you into trouble one of 
these days. But here's my h&nd on it, whenever 
you need help I am your man." 

Kwamankra spoke low : ££ I have counted the 
cost, and, it may be, I shall need thy help when the 
hour comes." 


AS IN A GLASS DARKLY. 


157 


CHAPTER XV. 

As in a Glass Darkly. 

Not so very long ago in the age of the world, 
the Nations were gathered in council upon Mount 
Atlas, even at the point which is nearest the 
ancient city of Constantine, and there were no 
people that were not represented, save the 
Ethiopians, whose kingdoms stretch from the 
shores of the Mediterranean, where it washes the 
Lybian coast, across the great desert, taking in 
the arms of the mighty waste from ocean to ocean, 
thence sweeping down to the remotest parts of the 
provinces inhabited by the Kaffirs, a race of mighty 
men. 

It was like the meeting of the gods, the gather- 
ing of the Nations, for they had mastered all 
knowledge and gotten themselves such power as 
to make men forget the Power beyond, before 
whom the Nations of the Earth are as grass- 
hoppers. 

These Nations, who, in the old pagan days, 
struggled the one against the other in true manly 
fashion, had learnt a new method of warfare, 
which they labelled ' £ Diplomacy ' ' ; and when the 


158 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


uninitiated asked the reason for the change, it 
was explained that it was dictated by the spirit 
of their common religion which inculcated 
universal brotherhood, and the beating of swords 
into plough-shares. Wherefore it came to pass, 
that at this universal conference the Nations said 
smooth things to one another which no one 
believed. 

But there was one thing concerning which 
these mighty men were in earnest, and that was 
the capture of the soul of Ethiopia. Said they, 
"We have all increased in knowledge and power, 
and, being brothers, we can no longer devour one 
another. Yet must we live. Taught by the 
instinct of self-preservation, we must have elbow- 
room wherein our children and our children's 
children may thrive. Now, before our hosts lieth 
the whole stretch of Ethiopia from sea to sea. 
Come, let us partition it among ourselves." They 
were well agreed upon this matter, but not upon 
the way of encompassing it. 

One Nation said, " How shall we do this thing, 
seeing we are Christians ? ' 5 Another said, 
" Thou that doubtest, thou art merely slow of 
counsel. This thing is easily done. We shall go 
to the Ethiopians, and shall teach them our 
religion, and that will make them ours, body and 
soul — lands, goods, and all, for all time." And 
the saying pleased them all. 


AS IN A GLASS DARKLY. 


159 


It came to pass upon the third year after the 
meeting of the Nations that a mighty prince, sail- 
ing from the setting sun, dropped anchor in that 
portion of Ethiopia which is washed by the waters 
of the Gulf of Guinea. Retinue he had none, nor 
arms, nor any outward sign of power. In his 
hand he held a simple cross, and gifts besides. 
The Sons of Night gathered around him in great 
awe, and took the coming of the stranger for the 
visit of a god. But the gifts set them easy, and 
the drink of the white man was like nectar unto 
them. 

There were discerning men among the 
Ethiopians who would shake their heads and say. 
This thing will bring us no good. But the crowd sub- 
mitted to the worship of the new god, and greedily 
devoured the good things found upon his altars. 
And soon the discerning ones formed themselves 
into a group, and the crowd in another camp ; and 
the thing pleased the strange visitor. And now 
he sent over the seas, and brought yet other 
teachers, who apparently taught the self-same 
doctrine, and the more they taught the more the 
people broke into smaller groups, each denouncing 
the other heartily. And so it came to pass, that 
children who had suckled at the same breast and 
had played with the same toy gods were, as men, 
feign to slay one another. And the thing seemed 
to please the new comers, and, being men of know- 


160 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


ledge, they winked at one another and said the rest 
would follow. 

By this time the unthinking crowd were beside 
themselves in emulation of the white man's ways, 
and when they bowed the knee in the House of 
Mammon, they thought they worshipped the true 
God, and seemed to forget that once they were 
Ethiopians. 

W "TV" *7r 

The gods met in the ethereal heights of Mount 
Atlas to undo the work of mortals. Said they, 
" The Nations are as a dream before us, and they 
know not what they do. Are not the Ethiopians 
a peculiar people, destined for a peculiar part in 
the world's work ? An end to the machinations of 
men ! " 

In the self-same era a god descended upon 
earth to teach the Ethiopians anew the way of life. 
He came not in thunder, or with great sound, 
but in the garb of a humble teacher, a John the 
Baptist among his brethren, preaching racial and 
national salvation. From land to land, and from 
shore to shore, his message was the self-same one, 
which, interpreted in the language of the Christ, 
was : What shall it 'profit a race if it shall gain 
the whole world and lose its own soul? 


RACE EMANCIPATION — EDWARD WILMOT BLYDEN. 161 


CHAPTER XVI. 

Race Emancipation — General Considerations : 
Edward Wilmot Blyden. 

The year 1907 found Kwamankra at Hampton, 
in the United States of America, as the guest of 
the African National University, which had been 
founded earlier in the century as the outcome of a 
spirit of intelligent co-operation on the part of the 
thinkers of the Ethiopian race both in the Mother 
Country and in their exiled home across the 
Atlantic. Gradually it had come to dawn upon 
educationists that the error of blindly imitating 
western methods must give place to original lines 
of racial intellectual development; and for that 
reason centres of learning were eager for informa- 
tion as to where mistakes had been made in the 
past, and how they might be remedied in the 
future. 

Hampton has been described as one of the finest 
seats of learning in America. It is the work of 
Samuel Chapman Armstrong, a name which will 
ever be remembered with honour and veneration 
among cultured Ethiopians throughout the world, 
for it was left to him to point the way of freeing 


162 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the souls of Africans in America after Abraham 
Lincoln and his stalwart men of iron will had 
freed their body. 

It was " Emancipation Day," and the contrast 
between how the day was observed in earlier times 
on the plantations and the way the event was 
marked at Hampton on the occasion of 
Kwamankra's visit was extremely remarkable. 
The boisterous, rowdy, senseless jubilation of 
young and old had given way to a purposeful 
intent to mark each passing year with some record 
of national progress and efficiency; and it was 
inspiring to see the modest manner and the digni- 
fied calm of the students as they filed into the 
Chapel Theatre to the music of the University 
orchestra. But they had not long been seated 
when a low murmur could be heard all over the 
building which soon rose to a ringing cheer, as a 
side door opened, and the Principal of Hampton 
mounted the rostrum with Kwamankra and the 
professors following. Kwamankra had been 
announced to speak upon the work of Edward 
Wilmot Blyden, about the foremost thinker of the 
race, and great was the enthusiasm of the audience 
as with craned necks they took in every word of 
the speaker, as if it were a message from a new 
sphere. The speaker dwelt on the broader outlook 
which Dr. Blyden had, for at least forty years, 
presented to his countrymen in his writings which 


RACE EMANCIPATION — EDWARD WILMOT BLYDEN. 163 

he passed under review, dwelling upon each dis- 
tinctive note, and wound up in the following 
graphic words : — 

" The claim of Edward Wilmot Blyden to the 
esteem and regard of all thinking Africans rests 
not so much upon the special work he has done for 
any particular people of the African race, as upon 
the general work he has done for the race as a 
whole. 

" The work of men like Booker T. Washington 
and W. E. Burghart Du Bois is exclusive and 
provincial. The work of Edward Wilmot Blyden 
is universal, covering the entire race and the entire 
race problem. 

c £ What do I mean ? I mean this : that while 
Booker T. Washington seeks to promote the 
material advancement of the black man in the 
United States, and W. E. Burghart Du Bois his 
social enfranchisement amid surroundings and in 
an atmosphere uncongenial to racial development, 
Edward Wilmot Blyden has sought for more than 
a quarter of a century to reveal everywhere the 
African unto himself; to fix his attention upon 
original ideas and conceptions as to his place in 
the economy of the world ; to point out to him his 
work as a race among the races of men ; lastly, and 
most important of all, to lead him back unto self- 
respect. He has been the voice of one crying in 
the wilderness all these years, calling upon all 


164 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


thinking Africans to go back to the rock whence 
they were hewn by the common Father of the 
nations — to drop metaphor, to learn to unlearn all 
that foreign sophistry has encrusted upon the 
intelligence of the African. Born in the West 
Indies some seventy years ago and nurtured in 
foreign culture, he has yet remained an African; 
and to-day he is the greatest living exponent of 
the true spirit of African nationality and man- 
hood. 

" To emphasise an important consideration, in 
the Afro-American school of thought the black 
man is seeking intellectually and materially to 
show himself a man along the lines of progress of 
the white man. In the African school of thought, 
represented by Dr. Blyden, the black man is 
engaged upon a sublimer task, namely, the dis- 
covery of his true place in creation upon natural 
and national lines. That is the striking difference 
between the two great schools of the thinkers of 
the race. And it has been the work of Edward 
Wilmot Blyden to accentuate this difference, and 
to-day he, of whom we are all so proud, is the 
leading thinker of the latter school of thought. 

" Apart from the magnetism of his personality, 
the great influence of Dr. Blyden over the rising 
thinking youth of the race, lies in the fact that he 
has revealed in his writings and utterances the 
true motive power which shall carry the race on 


RACE EMANCIPATION — EDWARD WILMOT BLYDEN. 165 

from victory unto victory. And all he has to say 
to his people, summing up his teaching in one 
word, is : man, know thyself. 

" The voice that was aforetime crying solitarily 
in the wilderness has suddenly become the voice 
of a nation and of a people, calling unto their 
kindred across the Atlantic to come back to their 
way of thinking. We notice with a pang the 
strivings after the wind in which our brethren in 
America are engaged, and we ask them to-day to 
return to first principles and to original and racial 
conceptions — to those cooling streams by the foun- 
tains of Africa which would refresh their souls. 

"To leave no possible doubt as to my meaning, 
Afro-Americans must bring themselves into touch 
with some of the general traditions and institu- 
tions of their ancestors, and, though sojourning 
in a strange land, endeavour to conserve the 
characteristics of the race. Thus and only thus, 
like Israel of old, will they be able, metaphorically, 
to walk out of Egypt in the near future with a 
great and a real spoil. 

" Edward Wilmot Blyden is a leader among 
leaders of African aboriginal thought ; and, lest a 
prophet should be without honour among his own 
kindred, I am happy on this occasion also to 
have, among others, the privilege and the oppor- 
tunity of giving him the recognition that is his 
due." 


166 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


For days and days the students of Hampton 
talked of little else besides the new conception of 
national aims presented in the address; and, in 
after years, it was noted that it gave a new colour 
and meaning to the good racial work done at 
Hampton. 


RACE EMANCIPATION — AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 167 


CHAPTER XVII. 

Race Emancipation — Particular 
Considerations : African Nationality. 

In the name of African nationality the thinker 
would, through the medium of Ethiopia Unbound, 
greet members of the race everywhere throughout 
the world. Whether in the east, south, or west 
of the African Continent, or yet among the teem- 
ing millions of Ethiopia's sons in America, the 
cry of the African, in its last analysis, is for scope 
and freedom in the struggle for existence, and it 
would seem as if the care of the leaders of the race 
has been to discover those avenues of right and 
natural endeavour which would, in the end, ensure 
for the race due recognition of its individuality. 

The race problem is probably most intense in the 
United States of America, but there are indica- 
tions that on the African Continent itself it is fast 
assuming concrete form. Sir Arthur Lawley, the 
present Governor of Madras, before leaving the 
Governorship of the Transvaal, is reported in a 
public address to have said that the ' ' black peril ' ' 
is a reality, and to have advised the whites to con- 


168 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


solidate their forces in presence of the potential 
foe. The leaders of the race have hitherto exer- 
cised sound discretion and shown considerable 
wisdom in advising the African to follow the line 
of least resistance in meeting any combination of 
forces against him. The African's way to proper 
recognition lies not at present so much in the 
exhibition of material force and power, as in the 
gentler art of persuasion by the logic of facts and 
of achievements before which all reasonable men 
must bow. 

A two-fold danger threatens the African every- 
where. It is the outcome of certain economic con- 
ditions whose method is the exploitation of the 
Ethiopian for all he is worth. He is said to be 
pressed into the service of man, in reality, the 
service of the Caucasian. That being so, he never 
reaps the full meed of his work as a man. He 
materially contributes to the building of pave- 
ments on which he may not walk — take it as a 
metaphor, or as a fact, which way you please. He 
helps to work up revenues and to fill up exchequers 
over which, in most cases, he has no effective con- 
trol, if any at all. In brief, he is labelled as be- 
longing to a class apart among the races, and any 
attempt to rise above his station is terribly 
resented by the aristocracy of the races. Indeed, 
he is reminded at every turn that he is only 
intended to be a hewer of wood and a drawer of 


RACE EMANCIPATION — AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 1G9 

water. And so it happens that those among the 
favoured sons of men who occasionally consider 
the lot of the Ethiopian are met with jeers and 
taunts. Is it any wonder, then, that even in the 
Twentieth Century, the African finds it terribly 
difficult to make headway even in his own country ? 
The African may turn socialist, may preach and 
cry for reform until the day of judgment; but the 
experience of mankind shows this, that reform 
never comes to a class or a people unless and until 
those concerned have worked out their own salva- 
tion. And the lesson we have yet to learn is that 
we cannot depart from Nature's way and hope for 
real success. 

And yet, it would seem as if in some notable 
instances the black man is bent upon following the 
line of greatest resistance in coping with the diffi- 
culties before him. Knowledge is the common 
property of mankind, and the philosophy which 
seeks for the Ethiopian the highest culture and 
efficiency in industrial and technical training is a 
sound one. It is well to arrest in favour of the 
race public opinion as to its capability in this 
direction. But that is not all, since there are 
certain distinctive qualities of race, of country, 
and of peoples which cannot be ignored without 
detriment to the particular race, country, or 
people. Knowledge, deprived of the assimilating 
element which makes it natural to the one taught, 


M 


170 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


renders that person but a bare imitator. The 
Japanese, adopting and assimilating Western 
culture, of necessity commands the respect of 
Western nations, because there is something dis- 
tinctly Eastern about him. He commands, to 
begin with, the uses of his native tongue, and has 
a literature of his own, enriched by translations 
from standard authors of other lands. He 
respects the institutions and customs of his 
ancestors, and there is an intelligent past which 
inspires him. He does not discard his national 
costume, and if, now and again, he dons Western 
attire, he does so as a matter of convenience, much 
as the Scotch, across the border, puts away, when 
the occasion demands it, his Highland costume. It 
is not the fault of the black man in America, for 
example, that he suffers to-day from the effects of 
a wrong that was inflicted upon him years ago by 
the forefathers of the very ones who now despise 
him. But he can see to it that as the years go by 
it becomes a matter of necessity for the American 
whites to respect and admire his manhood ; and the 
surest way to the one or the other lies not so much' 
in imitation as in originality and natural initia- 
tive. Not only must the Ethiopian acquire pro- 
ficiency in the arts and sciences, in technical and 
industrial training, but he must pursue a course of 
scientific enquiry which would reveal to him the 
good things of the treasure house of' his own 
nationality. 


RACE EMANCIPATION — AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 171 

There are probably but a few men of African 
descent in America who, if they took the trouble 
b] 7- dipping into family tradition, would not be 
able to trace their connection and relationship with 
one or other of the great tribes of West Africa; 
and now that careful enquiry has shown that the 
institutions of the Aborigines of Africa are cap- 
able of scientific handling, what would be easier 
than for the great centres of culture and learning 
in the hands of Africans in the United States to 
found professorships in this relation? In the 
order of Providence, some of our brethren afore- 
time were suffered to be enslaved in America for a 
wise purpose. That event in the history of the 
race has made it possible for the speedier dis- 
semination and adoption of the better part of 
Western culture; and to-day Afric's sons in the 
East and in the West can do peculiar service unto 
one another in the common cause of uplifting 
Ethiopia and placing her upon her feet among the 
nations. The East, for example, can take lessons 
from the West in the adoption of a sound educa- 
tional policy, the kind of industrial and technical 
training which would enable aboriginals to make 
the best use of their lands and natural resources. 
And, surely, the West ought not to be averse to 
taking hints from the East as regards the pre- 
servation of national institutions, and the adop- 
tion of distinctive garbs and names, much as 

m 2 


172 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


obtains among our friends the Japanese. While 
a student in London, a thrill of Oriental pride used 
to run through the writer when he brushed against 
an Asiatic in a garb distinctively Eastern. They 
aped no one. They were content to remain 
Eastern. For even when climatic conditions 
necessitated the adoption of European habili- 
ments, they had sense enough to preserve some 
symbol of nationality. On the contrary, Africans 
would seem never to be content unless and until 
they make it possible for the European to write of 
them thus : 

" How extraordinary is the spectacle of this huge race 
— millions of men — without land or language of their 
own, without traditions of the country they came from, 
bearing the very names of the men that enslaved them f 

" The black element is one which cannot be ' boiled 
down ' into the great cosmopolitan 'American nation — the 
black man must always be tragically apart from the 
white man " — 

and so on and so forth 

Now, if there is aught in the foregoing which 
is true to life, it bears but one meaning, namely, 
this, that the average Afro-American citizen of 
the United States has lost absolute touch with the 
past of his race, and is helplessly and hopelessly 
groping in the dark for affinities that are not 
natural, and for effects for which there are neither 
national nor natural causes. That being so, the 


RACE EMANCIPATION — AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 173 

African in America is in a worse plight than the 
Hebrew in Egypt. The one preserved his lan- 
guage, his manners and customs, his religion and 
household gods ; the other has committed national 
suicide, and at present it seems as if the dry bones 
of the vision have no life in them. Looking at 
the matter closely, it is not so much Afro- 
Americans that we want as Africans or Ethio- 
pians, sojourning in a strange land, who, out of 
a full heart and a full knowledge can say : If I 
forget thee, Ethiopia, let my right hand forget 
its cunning ! Let us look at the other side of the 
picture. How extraordinary would be the 
spectacle of this huge Ethiopian race — some 
millions of men — having imbibed all that is best 
in Western culture in the land of their oppressors, 
yet remaining true to racial instincts and inspira- 
tion, customs and institutions, much as did the 
Israelites of old in captivity ! When this more 
pleasant picture will have become possible of 
realisation, then, and only then, will it be possible 
for our people in bondage " metaphorically to 
walk out of Egypt in the near future with a great 
and a real spoil." 

Someone may say, but, surely, you don't mean 
to suggest that questions of dress and habits of 
life matter in the least. I reply emphatically, 
they do. They go to the root of the Ethiopian's 
•self-respect. .Without servile imitation of our 


174 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


teachers in their get-up and manner of life, it 
stands to reason that the average white man would 
regard the average black man far more seriously 
than he does at present. The adoption of a dis- 
tinctive dress for the cultured African, therefore, 
would be a distinct step forward, and a gain to 
the cause of Ethiopian progress and advance- 
ment. Pray listen to the greatest authority on 
national life upon this matter, " Behold, I have 
taught you statutes and judgments even as the 
Lord God commanded me that ye should do in the 
land whither ye go to possess it. Keep, therefore, 
and do them : for this is your wisdom and your 
understanding in the sight of the nations which 
shall hear these statutes and say, surely, this great 
nation is a wise and understanding people." Yes, 
my people are pursuing knowledge as for a hidden 
treasure, and have neglected wisdom and true 
understanding, and hence are they daily a laugh- 
ing stock in the sight of the nations. 

Here, then, is work for cultured .West Africans 
to start a reform which will be world-wide in its 
effects among Ethiopians, remembering as a basis 
that we, as a people, have our own statutes, the 
customs and institutions of our fore-fathers, 
which we cannot neglect and live. We on the 
Gold Coast are making a huge effort in this direc- 
tion, and though European habits will die hard 
with some of our people, the effort is worth making ; 


RACE EMANCIPATION AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 175 

and, if we don't succeed quite with this genera- 
tion, we shall succeed with the next. That the 
movement is gaining ground may well be gathered 
from the following extract from the Gold Coast 
Leader of 24th February, 1907, reporting the 
coronation of Ababio IV., Mantse, that is King, 
of " British Accra." Says the correspondent: 
" For the first time I realised that the Gold Coast 
would be more exhilirating and enjoyable indeed 
if the educated inhabitants in it would hark back 
to the times of old and take a few lessons in the 
art and grace of the sartorial simplicity and 
elegance of their forebears. The 'scholars' looked 
quite noble and full of dignity in the native dress. 
There was not one ignoble or mean person among 
them, and so for the matter of that did the ladies." 
Then I should like to see Ethiopian Leagues 
formed throughout the United States much in the 
same way as the Gaelic League in Ireland for the 
purpose of studying and employing Fanti, Yoruba, 
Hausa, or other standard African language, in 
daily use. The idea may seem extraordinary on 
the first view, but if you are inclined to regard it 
thus, I can only point to the examples of Ireland 
and Denmark, who have found the vehicle of a 
national language much the safest and most 
natural way of national conservancy and evolu- 
tion. If the Dane and Irish find it expedient in 
Europe, surely the matter is worthy of considera- 


176 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


tion by the Ethiopian in the .United States, in 
Sierra Leone, in the West Indies, and in Liberia. 

A distinguished writer, dwelling upon the 
advantages of culture in a people's own language 
said : " These are important considerations of a 
highly practical kind. Ten years ago, we had in 
Ireland a people divorced, by half a century of 
education conducted along alien lines, from their 
own proper language and culture. We had also 
in Ireland a people seemingly incapable of rational 
action, sunk in hopeless poverty, apparently 
doomed to disappear. We have in Ireland to-day 
the beginnings of a system of education in the 
national language and along national lines; and 
we have at the same time, and in the places where 
this kind of education has been operative, an 
unmistakable advance in intellectual capacity and 
material prosperity." Now, if the soul that is in 
the Ethiopian, even in the United States, remains 
Ethiopian, which it does, to judge from the coon 
songs which have enriched the sentiment of man- 
kind by their pathos, then, I say, the foregoing 
words, true as everyone must admit they are, point 
distinctly to the impossibility of departing from 
nature' s way with any hope of lasting good to 
African nationality. I do sincerely trust these 
thoughts will catch the eye of such distinguished 
educationists as Mr. Booker T. Washington and 
others of the United States and in the West Indies 


RACE EMANCIPATION — AFRICAN NATIONALITY. 177 

as also the attention of similar workers in West 
Africa who have the materials ready at hand. It 
is a great work, but I do believe that my country- 
men have the heart and the intelligence to grapple 
with it successfully. 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


RACE EMANCIPATION : THE CRUX OF 
THE MATTER. 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX 


m 


CHAPTER XVIII. 

Race Emancipation : The Crux of the Matter. 

One of the most pathetic passages in the history 
of human thought is the remarkable work of an 
Ethiopian, " The Souls of Black Folk," written 
by the well-known thinker, W. P. B. Du Bois, of 
Atlanta, Ga., in the United States of America. 
It deals with a matter which has attracted the 
attention of all thinking men of modern times. 
European writers have dealt with the question, 
and so have African and American writers. But 
the particular standpoint of Mr. Du Bois is 
peculiar unto itself. It recalls the story of the 
Hebrew people ; but neither at the stage of actual 
enslavement, nor yet at the hour of emancipation. 
As yet, the people are roaming aimlessly in the 
wilderness, and the leaders, though having the 
promise, have but a glimmer of light to see dis- 
tantly a day of deliverance possible. It is true 
twenty, thirty, years of the forty are past, and the 
full light may break some day all of a sudden; 
but even now the mighty arms of Moses must be 
upraised and supported lest the chosen people 
perish by the way. 


180 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


It has been said that Mr. Du Bois' attitude 
toward the race question is a pathetic one. " I 
am a problem," our author would seem to say. 
Then presently follows the plaintive query : 
" How does it feel to be a problem? " To 
descend to particulars, he says : " After the 
Egyptian and Indian, the Greek and Roman, the 
Teuton and Mongolian, the Negro is a sort of 
seventh son, born with a veil, and gifted with 
second sight in this American world — a world 
which yields him no true self-consciousness, but 
only lets him see himself through the revelation of 
the other world. It is a peculiar sensation, this 
double consciousness, this sense of always looking 
at one's self through the eyes of others, of 
measuring one's soul by the tape of a world that 
looks on in amused contempt and pity. One ever 
feels his twoness — an American, a Negro; two 
souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; 
two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged 
strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder." 
Ah ! there's the rub ! Poor Ethiopia I how sorely 
hath the iron of oppression entered into the very 
soul of thy erring children ! 

Now, self-consciousness obviously depends upon 
self-revelation after which comes self-realisation. 
But has the Ethiopian sojourning in America, 
and, for that matter, even in Liberia and in 
Sierra Leone ever realised himself? Has he 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


181 


received that self-awakening which would move 
him, in the words of the prodigal, to exclaim, 
' ' Alas me ! How many hired servants of my 
father's have bread enough and to spare and I 
perish with hunger ? " No, it has not yet occurred 
to him to arise and go to his Father, regardless of 
the taunts of the surly elder son. He perceives 
not yet that the Father is waiting to make a feast 
of rejoicing over the emancipation of his soul. 
No, he will not yet don the robe of sonship, nor 
suffer the ring, the symbol of a spiritual union and 
equality, to be placed upon his finger. Poor man ! 
Instead of the fatted calf, he still sits sulkily by 
the wayside over Jordan apples which presently 
turn into ashes in his mouth. Listen to his cry : 
" Who shall deliver me from the burden of these 
unreconciled and irreconcilable strivings? " 
Listen ! Not so long as he turns away from the 
Father's house and elects to remain a slave in soul. 
To be a puzzle unto others is not to be a puzzle 
unto one's self. The sphinx in the Temple of 
the Sphinx in ancient Egypt is a recumbent 
figure with the head of a lion, but with the fea- 
tures of King Chephron, the Master of Egypt, 
somewhere about 3960 b.c. Now, fancy Candace, 
Queen of Ethiopia, or Chephron, the Master of 
Egypt, being troubled with a double consciousness. 
Watch that symbolic, reposeful figure yonder, and 
you can but see one soul, one ideal, one striving, 


182 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


one line of a natural, rational progress. Look 
again, and you must agree that the idea of a double 
consciousness is absurd with these representative 
types. It is true that — 

" Bowed by the weight of centuries, he leans 
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground ; 

The emptiness of ages in his face, 

And on his back the burden of the world." 

But, surely, to bear the burden of others, one 
should have thought, is honourable work, and the 
toiling one need not be a problem unto himself. 

It is apparent that Mr. Du Bois writes from an 
American standpoint, surrounded by an American 
atmosphere. And, of course, it is not his fault, 
for he knows of no other. To be born an African 
in America, in that great commonwealth of dollars 
and the merciless aggrandisement of the indi- 
vidual, where the weak must look out for himself, 
and the cry of the innocent appeals not to him who 
rides triumphantly to fortune, is to be entangled 
in conditions which give no room for the assertion 
of the highest manhood. African manhood 
demands that the Ethiopian should seek not his 
opportunity, or ask for elbow room, from the white 
man, but that he should create the one or the other 
for himself. 

Thoughts like these were stirring men's minds 
when the Pan-African Conference met in the Gold 
Coast in the year 1905, at the invitation of the 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


183 


Gold Coast Aborigines Eights Protection Society, 
that prototype of the kind of African National 
Assemblies which must be called into being in the 
near future for the solution of African questions. 
Among the distinguished speakers at the Con- 
ference was Kwamankra, and great was the 
impression which was created by the paper which 
he read upon Dr. Bly den's great work upon 
" African Life and Customs," which is here 
recorded. Said he : 

' ' I have followed, with keen interest, the series 
of articles on ' African Life and Customs ' in the 
Sierra Leone Weekly News from the ever instruc- 
tive pen of Dr. Blyden ; and, perhaps, the following 
thoughts, suggested by them, may be useful to the 
student of African problems, seeking for the con- 
ditions suitable for Race Emancipation. 

" I believe it was the learned doctor who first 
pointed out that Africa needs no redemption. 
But that she requires emancipation from the 
thraldom of foreign ideas inimical to racial 
development, few will doubt. What, indeed, can 
be more certain than that the African in the 
United States, in the West Indies, and in the 
mother country, East, West and South, has need 
to unlearn a good deal? But the unfortunate 
part of it is that the way out is at yet but dimly 
dawning even upon such as would otherwise be 
qualified to lead the masses. It becomes, there- 


184 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


fore, the sacred duty of those who can see a little 
more clearly ahead to point the way. Hence it is 
that, in season and out of season, the warning 
voice of our grand old man is heard. 

" The African who comes to his brethren with 
a red-hot civilisation straight from Regent Circus, 
or the Boulevards of Paris, and cries anathema to 
all black folk who would not adopt his views or 
mode of life, is, perhaps, not the man who is, or 
can be, of much help in developing African life 
and African idiosyncracies along the line of 
natural and healthy development. That is, per- 
haps, the underlying teaching, if not the sum total 
of the teaching, of the series of articles now 
before us. 

" Africa seems destined for ever to be a land of 
mystery. When, in our modern way, we have 
demolished African strongholds, and, with the 
wantonness of an iconoclast, saved nothing to 
remind us of the artistic past and future possi- 
bilities of the people — nay, when we have laid out 
streets and encouraged shops to spring up mush- 
room-like here and there, we think we have solved 
the mystery of the gods, while, all the time, the 
heart of the matter is not reached. In many a 
forest glen they dwell in their tens and in their 
hundreds, but seldom in their thousands, undis- 
turbed by the vulgar eye. Your cities are not 
their cities, your tinsel is not their gold. All 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


185 


they ask for is for as little interference as possible. 
What can yon do with such a people, except to 
give them scope and room for natural development ? 

' £ I am writing this on the verandah of a house 
in the main street of Kumasi. Where once stood 
the palace of the King, now stands an ugly coast 
building with dirty blinds and a dirtier shop 
below. But the men and the women are not 
changed. The type is pronounced; and as I 
watch them passing up and down in different 
groups, it is easy to see that the men and women, 
who walked the banks of the Nile in days of yore, 
are not far different from the remnants of the sons 
of Efua Kobi. As you see the new unfinished coast 
houses side by side of the frail impermanent, 
quadrangular compounds of the old type, the 
thought suggests itself to you that, after all, it is 
the intangible that matters. You see you enter 
one of these compounds, and you find but bare, 
open rooms, in the case of a Chief's house, often 
supported by pillars. Where do these people 
actually live ? Where do they keep their 
treasures, and their household gods ? No one can 
tell you. But they are as safe as the golden stool 
itself is. Thus you arrive at the heart of these 
people, and you are inwardly persuaded that all 
the symbols of European authority, responsibility, 
and opportunity are more impermanent than the 
frail houses you see about you. How to reach the 


N 


186 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


heart of such a people would not be an 
uninteresting study. If you succeed, you have 
arrived at the heart of the principle which may 
be safely applied to healthy race development 
wheresoever necessary. 

" Once more, then, Ashanti is my type, for the 
reason that Ashanti is yet unspoilt by the bad 
methods of the missionary. 

" I remember once seeing Rev. Ramsay in 
Kumasi. He told me he had laboured in Ashanti 
off and on for forty years. I asked how many 
Ashantis he had in his church at Kumasi proper ? 
He said, thirty. His assistant corrected him and 
said fifty. I asked him how many in all Ashanti ? 
About two hundred. Not quite so many, his 
assistant concurring. Rev. Asare, the assistant, 
and his good wife are both Africans, who have 
adopted the European habit. I had visited the 
missionaries in my African costume. They 
agreed, including my African friends, that it was 
appropriate. I hope the object lesson was not 
without significance to the hopes of the success of 
their mission. But, however that may be, to-day 
the Ashanti goes unconcerned of the white man's 
religion and of the white man's ways, as ancient 
Egypt might have done. 

" What is religion? If it is that which links 
back the finite to the infinite, the material to the 
spiritual, the temporal to the eternal — that which 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


187 


inspires an unfaltering faith in a life beyond the 
grave, then, I maintain, that the African, in his 
system of philosophy, gives place to none. 

' ' Hark ! What are those suggestive words I 
catch from the so-called Fetish chant that the 
priest, called to attend a dying man, is humming 
in a low, doleful voice ! 

£ Midan, Nyami, Kwiaduampon, 

Midan, Nyami , Kwiadu, 

Nyami ama, Nyami ama 
Nyavii na wama mi alcom !' 

Meaning : 

* On God I depend, the impregnable Rock ; 

On God I depend, the impregnable Rock. 

God has given, God has given, 

God has given me the priesthood.' 

I have loosely rendered the word c Kiviaduampon ' 
as ' the impregnable rock,' but etymologically, it 
conveys the idea of ' the ever faithful God.' 

" Now, when, in the face of all this you tell 
the so-called pagan that he will not end well, that 
he is the devil's own, he listens curiously, and 
wonders whether you can mean all you say. His 
attitude henceforth is a defensive one, seldom 
antagonistic. Henceforth he only asks to be let 
alone. And yet people wonder that so-called 
spiritual work makes such little headway in these 
parts. And the land had rest forty years. Do 

n 2 


188 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


you not see the purport of it all? It has not 
pleased the gods to disturb her. Leave her in 
peace, the slumbering sphinx, until the God of 
Ethiopia wakes her up ! For it is not so much 
religion that she wants as knowledge — knowledge 
that will enable her to explain to the waiting world 
the faith that is in her and the reason of her 
being. 

" According to Dr. Freeman, in his History of 
Europe, the word pagan originally meant a 
countryman, and, by extension, a worshipper of 
false gods. Well, Paul, before the application of 
the phrase, spoke of a temple with the inscription 
£ to the unknown God,' whom men ignorantly 
worshipped. Evident, therefore, it is that a 
pagan is not necessarily a worshipper of false 
gods. Even Marcus Aurelius persecuted the 
Christians; yet it is conceivable that had he lived 
in a later age, he would have set his philosophical 
sayings in terms of Christianity. 

" If Christ and God are one, those who worship 
God ignorantly, worship Christ ignorantly, and 
it were better for the many to worship in spirit 
and in truth that which they know fully, but as it 
were through a glass darkly, rather than don the 
intellectual garb which ends in questioning the 
Divinity of Christ, and by parity of reasoning, 
according to the theologians, the Divinity of God. 

C£ In the philosophy of the West African there 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


189 


is no reason why Christ should not be God. For 
to him man is half God and half man. But a 
thin veil divides the finite from the infinite, and 
when Death pulls aside the curtain, there is no 
knowing what one shall be. Indeed, it is con- 
ceivable that paganism, scientifically interpreted, 
may place the Christ on a higher pedestal than 
Christianity has yet done. What the unspoilt 
educated African feels he wants is, rest — rest to 
think out his own thoughts, and to work out his 
own salvation. 

' ' Have we, who advocate these views, lost faith 
in Christianity ? It does not follow. It was Dr. 
Blyden who wrote in the ' Significance of Liberia ' 
these remarkable words : . . . . ' I am sure 

that Christianity, as conceived and modified in 
Europe and America, with its oppressive 
hierarchy, its caste prejudices and limitations, its 
pecuniary burdens and exactions, its injurious 
intermeddling in the harmless and useful customs 
of alien peoples, is not the Christianity of Christ. 
But I am sure, also, that the Christianity of Christ 
is no cunningly devised fable, no ignis fatuus, to 
disappear in darkness and confusion. I am sure 
that its spirit will ultimately prevail in the pro- 
ceedings of men ; that the knowledge of the Lord 
shall cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. 
I am sure that Jesus, upon whom is the spirit of 
the Lord, because He hath anointed Him to preach 


190 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


the gospel to the poor, to heal the broken-hearted, 
to preach deliverance to the captive, the recovery 
of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are 
bruised ; I am sure that this 

" Jesus shall reign where'er the sun 
Doth his successive journeys run! " 

I am sure, also, that all counterfeits, however 
bright or real they look, must vanish as the truth 
appears. We should not be discouraged because 
the system bearing the name of Christ makes no 
progress on this Continent — that it lingers, halts, 
and limps on the threshold of the great opportunity. 
Jesus is lame. He has been wounded in the house 
of his friends. We must bind up his wounds. 
Treading in the footsteps of our immortal 
countryman, we must bear the Cross after Jesus. 
We must strip him of the useless, distorting, and 
obstructive habiliments by which he has been 
invested by the materialising sons of Japhet. Let 
Him be lifted up as he really is, that He may be 
seen, pure and simple, by the African, and He will 
draw all men unto Him ! ' 

" The broader outlook upon religion is the lot 
of the careless Ethiopian. He need not necessarily 
see God except through Christ, but is, withal, so 
Catholic that he can speak of the universal 

' Strife that won our life 
With the incarnate Son of God.' 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


191 


" A significant marriage took place in Sierra 
Leone in March of the present year. A highly 
cultured African gentleman was married to 
a Mohammedan lady. Of this lady the 
Weekly News of 21st March, 1908, says : 

* There has been no attempt to unmake her, 
no inducement to make her alter the religion 
of her fathers or her native dress.' I 

remember overhearing an argument in a railway 
carriage between two educated Africans as to the 
effect of such marriages. They were both Sierra 
Leone men; and the sore point with one of the 
controversialists was as to how her ladyship would 
be received at Government House, or how she would 
receive at home the friends of her lord and master. 
Here you have the two warring elements in 
national development : ' What is it that the white 
man expects me to do? What is it that I am 
called upon in reason and by nature to do ? ' 
Between these two the manhood of the race is 
throttled and sacrificed on the altar of convenience. 

" Now, what appears remarkable in Sierra 
Leone would not be remarkable on the Gold Coast, 
where it is common for educated men to mate with 
less privileged women. And the reason, founded 
on common sense, is not far to seek. Between the 
African woman who, collecting firewood in a 
plantation, overpowered by nature, brings her 
little one into the world, soothes it, and carries it 


192 


ETHIOP IA UNBOUND. 


safely home with her load and the African lady 
who talks of going home, meaning Europe, to be 
confined, there is a mighty difference. The latter 
is the product of an effete system of training, and 
it and the system will perish out of hand. The 
former has a foundation in character that will 
bear the weight of the ages as far as African life 
and work are concerned. 

" With respect to marriage a great blunder has 
been committed by the meddlesome missionaries, 
namely, ' that of forcing a life of hypocrisy upon 
those whom they compass earth and sea to get into 
the fold. Whereas the average so-called convert 
was, before he came into the church, living a 
fairly decent, open, life in his marital relations, 
embracing Christianity invariably meant for him 
adopting subterfuges and chicanery to cover up 
the way of the old life, which not all the spiritual 
graces could help him to brush aside.' 

" There is a vulgar way of approaching the 
question of polygamy; there is the scientific way; 
and lastly there is the spiritual way. It may 
appear strange to the average man that there is 
a spiritual side to polygamy. Yet on second 
thought it must be so. In this, as in other matters, 
evil be to him who evil thinks. 

" The crux of the educational question, as it 
affects the African, is that Western methods 
denationalise him. He becomes a slave to foreign 


RACE EMANCIPATION— TIIE CRUX. 


193 


ways of life and thought. He will desire to be a 
slave no longer. So far is this true that the 
moment the unspoilt educated African shows 
initiative and asserts an individuality, his foreign 
mentor is irritated by the phenomenon. In 
September, 1905, public events on the Gold Coast 
led me to write in the local press as follows : ' We 
feel, secondly, that the educated native is unduly 
maligned for party purposes. It is the same cry 
as the educated Welsh, Irish, or Scotch. In any 
case, it is a childish cry — a sign of weakness. 
Does a native cease to be a native when once he 
is educated? .... But for the educated 
native, where would the unsophisticated native 
be ? Hence the weakness of the cry — the shibbo- 
leth of the ' educated native. 5 Heaven grant that 
the educated nahive may never be wanting in his 
duty to his less privileged brethren, or betray their 
trust in him. 5 

' ' But let there be no mistake about the matter. 
The foregoing strictly applies to the unspoilt 
cultured African. The other type is no good to 
anybody. The superfine African gentleman, who, 
at the end of every second or third year, talks of 
a run to Europe, lest there should be a nervous 
breakdown, may- be serious or not, but is bound 
in time to be refined off the face of the African 
continent. 

And now I come to the question of questions : 


194 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


' How may the West African be trained so as to 
preserve his national identity and race instincts ? ' 

"As a precautionary measure, I would take 
care to place the educational seminary in a region 
far beyond the reach of the influence of the coast. 
If I were founding a national University for the 
Gold Coast and for Ashanti, I would make a 
suitable suburb of Kumasi the centre. But why 
do I speak of a national University? For the 
simple reason that you cannot educate a people 
unless you have a suitable training ground. A 
Tuskegee Institute is very useful in its way, but 
where would you get the teachers unless you drew 
them from the ranks of the University trained 
men? And since even the teachers must be first 
locally trained, the highest training ground 
becomes a necessity. 

" I would found in such a University a Chair 
for History; and the kind of history that I would 
teach would be universal history with particular 
reference to the part Ethiopia has played in the 
affairs of the world. I would lay stress upon the 
fact that while Rameses II. was dedicating tem- 
ples to ' the God of gods and secondly to his own 
glory,' the God of the Hebrews had not yet 
appeared unto Moses in the burning bush; that 
Africa was the cradle of the world's systems 
and philosophies, and the nursing mother 
of its religions. In short, that Africa has nothing 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


195 


to be ashamed of of its place among the nations of 
the earth. I would make it possible for this seat 
of learning to be the means of revising erroneous 
current ideas regarding the African; of raising 
him in self-respect ; and of making him an efficient 
co-worker in the uplifting of man to nobler effort. 

" Then I should like to see professorships for 
the study of the Fanti, Hausa, and Yoruba 
languages. The idea may seem odd upon the first 
view. But if you are inclined to regard it thus, I 
can only point to the examples of Ireland and 
Denmark, who have found the vehicle of a national 
language much the safest and most natural way of 
national conservancy and evolution. If the Dane 
and Irish find it expedient in Europe, surely the 
matter is worthy of consideration by the African. 
Says Mr. James O'Hannay, writing on the work 
of the Irish League and the influence of a national 
language in the November, 1905, number of the 
Independent Review, at pages 311 and 312 : ' Our 
history, our customs, our characters are unin- 
telligible to us until we know it. Character, for 
instance, is the result of inheritance and environ- 
ment; and there is no more subtly influential 
environment than the language we speak. If 
these two are in opposition, if a people inherits a 
Celtic spirit *and grows up in an Anglo-Saxon 
atmosphere, with the English language on its lips, 
what kind of character will result? It is likely 


196 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


that a people tossed in this cross sideway of con- 
tradictions will tend to develop inconsistencies of 
character — amazing force rendered useless by 
recurring spasms of weakness, brilliant intel- 
lectual capacity sterilised by inability to grasp the 
conditions of material progress, and so forth.' 

"If you want a further support to this view, 
you have it laid down in an interview with Mr. 
A. G. Fraser (Trinity College, Oxford), the 
Principal of Trinity College, Kandy, Ceylon. 
Says the Times reporter : ' He laid special stress 
on the importance of conducting the training 
given in Indian Colleges on a vernacular basis 
rather than through the medium of English, as is 
too often the case at present. The system existing 
in most missionary and Government schools tends 
distinctly to separate those thus educated from 
their own race. He advocated education almost 
on Japanese lines, i.e., thorough teaching of 
English as a subject and literature, but the teach- 
ing of science, engineering, medicine, etc., through 
the medium of the vernacular, and not of English 
— with a complete connection between the village 
school and the central college.' 

' ' Moreover, I Avould make this seat of learning 
so renowned and attractive that students from the 
United States, the West Indies, Sierra Leone, and 
Liberia, as well as from Lagos and the Gambia, 
would flock to it. And they would come to this 


RACE EMANCIPATION — THE CRUX. 


197 


Mecca — this alma mater of national conservancy,, 
not in top hat and broad cloth, but in the sober 
garb in which the Romans conquered the material 
world, and in which we may conquer the spiritual 
world. 

" Now, it is easy to see that the graduates that 
such a school will turn out will be men — no effete, 
mongrel, product of foreign systems. 

" When three or four years back I had the 
pleasure of accompanying Dr. Blyden to the 
Royal Academy, he drew my particular atten- 
tion to a famous picture, representing the 
wolf and the lamb as dwelling together, etc. 
After we had both drunk in the beauty of 
portraiture for a while, he gravely remarked : 

£ And a little child shall lead them — that is 
Africa.' I was struck by the allusion, and 
I still think there is a deal in the reflection. But 
it has since struck me also, that it is not the spoilt 
educated African that may be expected to help in 
the regenerative work of the world. The unspoilt 
son of the tropics, nursed in a tropical atmosphere, 
favourable to the growth of national life, he it is 
who may show us the way. 

" The voice of the ancient universal God goes 
forth once more, who will go for us, who will show 
us any good? May there be a full, free, and 
hearty response from the sons of Ethiopia in the 
four quarters of the globe." 


CHAPTER XIX. 


A SIMILITUDE: THE GREEK AND THE FANT1. 


A SIMILITUDE : THE GREEK AND THE FANTI. 199 


CHAPTER XIX. 

A Similitude : The Greek and the Fanti. 

By this time the precocious youth was well on in 
his teens, and was already grappling with the 
intricacies of Greek roots and Latin suffixes. But 
often would his father warn him to be mindful 
more of the things which matter, as he quaintly 
put it. Now and again he would induce the youth 
to draw comparisons between the mode of thought 
and the practice of the ancients; and he would 
insist that there was no better intellectual, moral, 
and national training for a young Fanti than such 
exercise involved. By way of encouragement, 
when the youth had done particularly well, he 
would take him upon new ground and delight him 
with stories from Homer's great masterpiece, 
which, in a curious way, reflected the every-day 
life of their own people. 

On this particular occasion, you may well 
imagine the excitement of Ekra Kwow, as he drew 
a low stool beside the paterfamilias, all eagerness 
for the latter to begin. The youth looked dis- 
appointed, as, instead of beginning a story, his 
father continued smoking, and simply thrust into 


200 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


liis hand an old, well-thumbed popular edition of 
the story of the Odyssey, done into beautiful 
English by the Rev. Alfred J. Church. 

"What is the matter, father; are you not well 
to-night ? 5 ' 

" That's not it, my boy. I am as well as ever, 
thank you. But to-night I want you to read to me 
instead. I want to see how you handle Mr. 
Church's beautiful setting of the great thoughts 
of the master. You know to some this feast of the 
gods is like throwing pearls before swine. But 
go on. Begin with the visit of Athene to 
Nausicaa, the daughter of King Alcinoiis." 

Thus the youth began : " Athene spake, saying, 
why hath thy mother so careless a child, Nausicaa ? 
Lo ! thy raiment lieth unwashed, and yet the day 
of thy marriage is at hand, when thou must have 
fine clothing for thyself, and to give to them that 
shall lead thee to thy bridegroom's house; for thus 
doth a bride win good repute. Do thou, therefore, 
arise with the day, and go to wash the raiment, 
and I will go with thee . . . 

" And when the morning was come, Nausicaa 
awoke, marvelling at the dream, and went seeking 
her parents. Her mother she found busy with 
her maidens at the loom, spinning yarn dyed with 
purple of the sea, and her father she met as he 
was going to the Council with the Chiefs of the 
land. Then she said : ' Give me, Father, the 


A SIMILITUDE : THE GREEK AXD T1IE FANTI. 201 

wagon with the mules that I may take the gar- 
ments to the river to wash them . . . . 

" Then he called to the men, and they made 
ready the wagon, and harnessed the mules; and 
the maiden brought the raiment out of her chamber 
and put it in the wagon. Also her mother filled 
a basket with all manner of food, and poured wine 
in a goat-skin bottle. Olive oil also she gave her, 
that Nausicaa and her maidens might anoint them- 
selves after the bath. And Nausicaa took the 
reins and touched the mules with the whip. Then 
was there a clatter of hoofs, and the mules went 
on with their load, nor did they grow weary.'' 

As the youth stopped for a second to take 
breath, Kwamankra exclaimed, " That's good. 
Does that remind you of anything you see daily 
around you ? ' ' 

The youth paused for a moment, and then said : 
" It looks very much like how the Fanti women 
prepare to do their washing in the brook, and it is 
curious the mention of the use of oil to anoint the 
body after a bath. Why, that's just what our 
people do." 

" Good; powers of observation fair, my boy," 
remarked Kwamankra proudly. "You see in 
these extra-civilised days the laundress and the 
charwoman do the cleansing of our soiled linen, 
and who would dream of seeing a king's daughter 
doing her own washing, let alone her father's, or 


o 


202 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


her brother's. Yet, in ancient Greece it was not 
so. The highest in birth preserved native sim- 
plicity, much as the unspoilt among our own people 
do unto this day. Then there are just one or two 
points you have missed in the narrative. Alcinoiis 
is described as a king. His daughter meets him 
as he is going to the Council with the chiefs of the 
land. There is something strikingly in accord 
with our own custom here — just what an Omanliin 
would do." 

" Lo ! thy raiment lieth unwashed, and yet the 
day of thy marriage is at hand, when thou must 
have fair clothing for thyself, and to give to them 
that shall lead thee to thy bridegroom 1 s house," he 
quoted, and then added, ' ' thus do we in marriage 
and in death provide for the kinsmen and the kins- 
women who lead us." 

As the youth began to understand what the 
paterfamilias had meant by " the things which 
matter," he read with far greater expression the 
inimitable passages which describe the meeting of 
Ulysses with Nausicaa, her kindly address and 
hospitality, and his introduction to the Court of 
King Alcinoiis. And such a Court! " A 
wondrous place it was, with walls of brass and 
doors of gold, hanging on posts of silver; and on 
either side of the door were dogs of gold and silver, 
the work of Hephiestus and against the wall all 
along from the threshold to the inner chamber, 


A SIMILITUDE : THE GREEK AND THE FANTI. 203 

were set seats, on which sat the chiefs of the 
Phseacians feasting; and youths wrought in gold 
stood holding torches in their hands, to give light 
in the darkness. Fifty women were in the house 
grinding corn and weaving robes, for the women 
of the land are no less skilled to weave than are 
the men to sail the sea. And round about the 
house were gardens beautiful exceedingly, with 
orchards of fig, and apple, and pear, and pome- 
granate, and olive. Drought hurts them not, nor 
frost, and harvest comes after harvest without 
ceasing. Also there was a vineyard ; and some of 
the grapes were parching in the sun, and some 
were being gathered, and some again were but just 
turning red. And there were beds of all manner 
of flowers; and in the midst of all were two 
fountains which never failed." 

"And yet," observed Kwamankra, "the 
daughter of King Alcinolis was not above cleans- 
ing soiled linen; and there is something sweetly 
simple and familiar, as you see Ulysses bidden 
unto the feast, and an attendant pours water on 
his hands, and he is given meat and drink there- 
after, and in all this the Fanti-born feels himself 
particularly at home with these Grecians." 

" Indeed," pursued Kwamankra, " as one turns 
over the wonderful pages of the story of the 
Odyssey, he stumbles across such similitudes of 

o 2 


204 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


thought and action, as between the Greek and the 
Fanti, that are simply amazing." 

" Tell me all about that," snapped up the youth 
eagerly. 

" Well," continued Kwamankra, " in no phase 
of Grecian thought is this more striking than in 
the conception of the Deity. The great Niak- 
rapon, or Nyami, of the Fanti corresponds with the 
Zeus of the Greek, as Abusum correspond with the 
lesser gods ; and when the Greek speaks of the 
' oracle of the god in the midst of an oak tree,' he 
conveys the same idea as the Fanti does when he 
speaks of the busum in an odoom tree, popularly 
described as fetish. Again, similarly, when the 
Fanti makes an invocation, it is upon Nyiakrapon 
he calls, ' Mika Nyiakrapon ,' as distinguished 
from any of the Abusum, or lesser gods, just in the 
same way as the Greek would say, ' Would to 
God,' as distinguished from any of the lesser gods. 
Moreover, the spiritual sense of the Greek was as 
keen as that of the Fanti. The gods of the Fanti 
mix to-day as freely with mortals as did Proteus, 
Poseidon, or Athene, the daughter of Zeus; and 
their offices are the same, for, if men paid heed, 
they would still gather inspiration for action as 
in the days when Athene came down from 
Olympus, and said unto doubting Ulysses, ' Verily, 
thou art weak in faith. Some put their trust in 
men, yet men are weaker than the gods; why 


A SIMILITUDE : THE GREEK AND THE FANTI. 205 

trustest not thou in me? Verily, I am with thee, 
and will keep thee to the end. But now sleep, for 
to watch all the night is vexation of spirit.' " 

" Why," quoth the youth, " that reads like a 
passage in the Bible." 

ee Yes," the thinker went on musingly; " God 
hath not spoken to man only in the Hebrew Scrip- 
tures. But I was going to say, and so one might 
go on almost ad infinitum, gathering pearls of 
thought at every turn. Take, for instance, the 
incident when Penelope says to Eumseus, ' Call 
now this stranger; didst thou not mark how my 
son sneezed a blessing when I spake ? ' I do not 
know whether the idea of sneezing a blessing 
occurs in any other language; but a Fanti says : 
c Akam yey ' when you sneeze in his presence, 
exactly expressing the same idea. Again, the 
customs of offering sacrifice to the gods, and mak- 
ing libation to gods and deceased ancestors, are 
common alike to the two peoples. And when you 
recall the familiar way in which the poet speaks 
of Eurybates, the herald of Ulysses, ' Older than 
he, dark-skinned, round in the shoulders, with 
curly hair,' it dawns upon the Ethiopian that he 
gains vastly more in self-respect by intimate 
acquaintance with the ancient Greek than with the 
modern Saxon. 


Let nothing he done through strife or vain-glory ; hut 
in lowliness of mind let each esteem, others better 
than themselves. 

Look not every man on his own things , hut every man 
also on the things of others. 

Let this mind he in you, which was also in Christ 
Jesus : 

Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery 
to he equal with God : 

But made himself of no reputation, 

And took upon him the form of a servant, 

And ivas made in the likeness of men. 

And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled him- 
self, and became obedient unto death, even the death 
of the Cross. 

WHEREFORE 
God also hath highly exalted him, 

And given him a name 
Which is above every name, 

That at the name of Jesus 
Every knee should bow; 

Of things in heaven, 

And things in earth, 

And things under the earth; 

And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ 
is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. — Paul. 

# * # * * 

The tumult and the shouting dies; 

The Captains and the Kings depart : 

Still stands thine ancient sacrifice, 

A humble and a contrite heart. 

Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, 

Lest we forget — lest we forget ! — Kipling. 


AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM. 207 


CHAPTER XX. 

And a Little Child shall Lead Them. 

By the year 1925 a mighty change had come over 
the thought of the nations, and it was due to some 
extent to the work of the Gold Coast Nation and 
Ethiopian Review, promoted by Kwamankra just 
before the close of the first ten years of the century 
in the interests of Gold Coast national con- 
servancy; but as time went on it had broadened 
out in sympathy to embrace the needs of the entire 
race. During the preceding fifteen years the 
Nation had freely circulated throughout the 
Ethiopian world, and the promoter and the 
Editors were in constant communication with the 
leading thinkers of the race throughout the world. 

Moreover, it had gradually dawned upon 
workers and thinkers alike that the way of 
material argument — the argument of bomb and 
shell — was not the Ethiopian's way, and, in the 
world of progressive thought, the lamb was, after 
all, as the seer had foretold, leading the wolf and 
the lion instincts of the nations into right 


208 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


channels. It was a moral force with' a moral 
persuasiveness which, like the wind, blowing 
whence men know not, yet was moulding the 
spiritual atmosphere of the world. For what was 
to have become a great race war had become a 
mighty truce. The black races had at length 
learnt to run along their own natural lines of 
development, and the white needed the black and 
the black needed the white. The work of Cain 
had given place to the grace of conciliation, and 
the West had called to the South and the South 
had responded in the thundering words of the 
great thinker, who said : " But if we fail in this? 
— If blinded by the gain of the moment we see 
nothing in our dark man but a vast engine of 
labour; if to us he is not a man, but only a tool; 
if dispossessed entirely of the land for which he 
now shows that rare aptitude for peasant pro- 
prietorship for the lack of which among their 
masses many great nations are decaying; if we 
force him permanently in his millions into the loca- 
tions and compounds and slums of our cities, 
obtaining his labour cheaper, but to lose what the 
wealth of five rands could not return to us ; if unin- 
structed in the highest forms of labour, without 
the rights of citizenship, his own social organisa- 
tion broken up without our having aided him to 
participate in our own ; if unbound to us by 
gratitude and sympathy and alien to us in blood 


AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM. 209 

and colour, we reduce this vast mass to the condi- 
tion of a great, seething, ignorant proletariat — 
then I would rather draw a veil over the future of 
this land." 

To sentiments such as these, ringing with deep 
sincerity and earnestness, workers and leaders on 
the Ethiopian platform could not but respond 
with equal sincerity and earnestness; and, in the 
mutual respect and confidence which resulted, the 
black man could call to the white man and say : 

" Lofty I stand from each sister land, patient and wearily 
wise, 

With the weight of a world of sadness in my quiet 
passionless eyes, 

Dreaming alone of a people, dreaming alone of a day 

When men shall not rape my riches and curse me and 
go away ; 

Making a bawd of my bounty, fouling the hand that 
gave — 

Till I rise in my wrath and I sweep on their path and 
I stamp them into a grave. 

Dreaming of men who will bless me, of women esteem- 
ing me good, 

Of children born in my borders, of radiant motherhood, 

Of cities leaping to stature, of fame like a flag unfurled 

As I pour the tide of my riches in the eager lap of the 
world." 

Yes, it was a holy truce, and it was the spirit of 
humility which sealed it. It was one of those 
startling truths of life which men scarce realise 


210 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


when they hear it uttered. The late Henry 
Drummond emphasised this lesson in modern times 
in a way few had done before. And yet he taught 
nothing new in this respect. To toil and moil for 
reputation, fortune, or position, and, when gained, 
to wonder at one's folly at having wasted so much 
energy and so much precious time is as old as the 
days of King Solomon who, in the plenitude of his 
power and might and dominion, wrote all down 
as vanity. And the converse way of life is as old 
as Socrates and the Pyramids; and Ethiopia can 
afford to take her part ungrudgingly in the 
arduous task of advancing humanity. The wonder 
is that, twenty centuries after Christ, the leading 
nations have not yet learnt this great, yet simple, 
truth. And so it happens that they still toil and 
moil to make proselytes of other nations only to 
fill them with the unrest from which they suffer 
and to weary them with the burden which they 
bear. After years of patient waiting and disci- 
pline, Japan has at length shaken herself free 
from ancient conservatism, and China is following 
suit. As for India, she is even now in the grip of 
a great delirium. The lion and the bear are being 
threatened in their lair, and men can hardly be- 
lieve their senses. And yet this is not the better 
part of Japan which wise men would wish to see 
perpetuated. Perhaps no one person, living or 
dead, did more to reveal the East unto the .West 


AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM. 211 

than the late Lafcadio Hearn; and nowhere did 
the master-hand wield the magic wand more 
powerfully than in the living pages of that 
remarkable work, KoJcoro, which " treats of the 
inner rather than of the outer life of Japan." 
And herein lay the power of our author. He 
treated of the inner things of life. He belonged 
to that band of men who force their fellow-men to 
think. They are not always popular; but whether 
or not, they are the saviours of the race. 

Lest the temper of the people of the Gold Coast 
may be misunderstood, let it be premised that it is 
a remarkable thing that the date of Japan's 
political awakening has been noted to synchronise 
with the political awakening of the Gold Coast. 
Had the fates been propitious, the development of 
the latter might have been equally remarkable in 
its way. It is a curious fact, but one worth 
recording, that those who had the guidance, or, to 
use a more correct phrase, the protection of the 
budding aspirations of Eanti nationality, noted 
early the symptoms of latent national possibilities, 
and, acting on the principle of divide et impero, 
scattered the fragments to the winds. But the 
voice of the Creator has gone forth, and, even as 
the sea gives up its dead, so will the four winds 
blow back the hopes that were well nigh lost, and 
fan them into action. For, remember, that the 
Gold Coast people were contemporaries and 


212 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


brethren in institutions, language, customs, and 
practices, in the far interior, of the Ashantis 
whose polity, prowess and moral backbone have 
aroused the admiration of the world. For quite 
a century they were a martial power to reckon 
with, though without arms of precision ; and when 
measures of repression have been removed, it is 
quite conceivable that their inherent virility will 
be turned into healthy channels of statecraft and 
race development. 

It is, perhaps, not generally known that the 
Denkiras in the Gold Coast, occupying the country 
this side of the Offin River, whose capital town 
Gwikwa is close to Cape Coast, were once the 
masters of the Ashantis. The names of Ampon- 
saim and Intsim Gakiri of the royal line of 
Denkira are well-known in the history of Ashanti. 
There was a time when they inspired terror in the 
breasts of the Ashantis, and it was the haughty 
demand of Intsim Gakiri that the Ashanti tribute 
for a given year should be accompanied by a tooth 
of the king and his " best " wife that roused the 
Ashantis to the deadly struggle with the Denkiras 
which ended in the submission of the latter and 
their subsequent immigration to the Gold Coast, 
punctuated by a series of other political events. 

And if you turn to the Fanti portion of the 
Gold Coast, you find this, that they were one 
mighty host who broke away — if a wa atsiw, hence 


AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM. 213 

their name Fanti — from their brethren, the 
Ashantis in the hinterland and made their way to 
the coast. Now, when Boribori Fanti came from 
Takieman, the A bura Tuafus led the van ; but they 
were then not known as Aburas, no more were the 
Anumabus or Akumfis known by their present 
designations. They were all, as it has been ex- 
plained, one mighty host under several great 
leaders who sat upon ancient stools in the interior. 
Their first care was to secure a suitable habitat for 
their gods, Nanamu. The god of rain, for 
example, was, and is, known as Nana Yankum. 
,The first great centre of the Fantis was Man- 
kessim, meaning, the great city. As it was 
impossible for the hosts of Boribori Fanti to abide 
together, soon a dispersion took place. It was 
reported among those who remained behind of 
those who went in the direction of Abura : " Wo 
dzi hwon tsir abura mu nu hu ," that was to say, 
" they have taken some direction unknown," the 
name A bura attaching to the people from the verb 
abura. Likewise the Akumfis were so called from 
the density of the multitude, Kumkumfi, which 
separated from the main body and settled in the 
district now known as Akumfi. 

The polity of these people has been eloquently 
described by competent Fanti writers, and in the 
pages of their works is seen a system of govern- 
ment at once harmonious, progressive, and 


214 


ETHIOPIA UNBOUND. 


sympathetic — a system capable of infinite 
development. 

Moreover, in the language of these people are 
certain characteristic root ideas. It is the 
language of poetry, and their unrecorded songs are 
full of the deep meanings constituting the soul of 
life. Take, for example, the word " wireh ," 
meaning heart affection, in the phrase " miwireh 
akitawu ," that is to say, " my heart is firmly knit 
to your heart." So familiar are they with the 
essence of the Godhead that you have ascriptions 
such as Onumankuma, meaning " Onu a oibotum de 
oka de Madaku ma ," that is to say, " he who can 
say, I alone am the giver," clearly corresponding 
to the eternal Giver of all good. Take another 
ascription, Kwerampon, meaning " ekwerina 
ebira pun wa onye ," that is to say, tc if you lean 
against him, none can sever you," clearly carrying 
the idea of " none can pluck you out of my hands." 
Now, whence these root ideas ? They cannot be 
merely fortuitous, traceable, as they are, to the 
innermost consciousness of the people. 

Thus it will be seen that the Gold Coast people 
are as good an Eastern type in some respects as 
those of whom we have written. Yet, to-day, 

" Lofty she stands from each sister land patient and 
wearily wise." 

with a patience that marks for leadership in the 
spiritual realm. 


AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM. 215 

Undoubtedly the highest form of character 
development attainable in any religion is that set 
forth in the graphic portraiture of Paul of Tarsus, 
where he makes true humility the door to the 
highest honour. And who can doubt it that, in 
this respect, Ethiopia, among the nations, typifies 
this aspect of the developed character to-day more 
than any other ? In order to carry on her mission 
of peace what is wanted is the opportunity of 
inter-communication; and it is conceivable that 
some day it may be possible to reach Lake Chad 
from Northern Nigeria, and Kumasi to become a 
great centre for converging lines of the Cape to 
Cairo railway. When that eventuality happens, 
and Ethiopia will have entered upon her universal 
spiritual mission, then, hoary with age, and freed 
from the trammels of so-called world progress, 
aims, and ambitions, she shall pursue her onward 
path to God in the way of humble service to man- 
kind ; and, so, the saying of the seer shall become 
true that " A little child shall lead them.'' 


FINIS. 


C. M. Phillips, 

Printer, 

14 Portugal Street 
London, 

W.C. 



t 


















