About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, https://archive.org/details/chakahistoricalr00mofo/page/n5/mode/2up

--------------------------------------


CHAKA 
AN HISTORICAL ROMANCE 
BY THOMAS MOFOLO 

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY 
SIR HENRY NEWBOLT 
Litt.D., D.Litt., LL.D., &c. 

Translated from the original Sesuto by 
F. H. Dutton, Director of Education 

Published for the 
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF 
AFRICAN LANGUAGES & CULTURES 
by OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
LONDON : HUMPHREY MILFORD 
1931


OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
AMEN HOUSE, E.C. 4 
LONDON EDINBURGH GLASGOW 
LEIPZIG NEWYORK TORONTO 
MELBOURNE CAPETOWN BOMBAY 
CALCUTTA MADRAS SHANGHAI 

HUMPHREY MILFORD 

PUBLISHER TO THE 
UNIVERSITY 


I) 

A 




fU!5Xl 


PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN 


CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION. Bj Sir Henry Newbolt Page vii 

CHAPTER 

I. Nandi chooses Senzangakona as her Lover . i 

II. Senzangakona casts off Nandi ... 8 

III. Chaka kills a Lion . . . . .18 

IV. Chaka is visited by the Lord of the Deep Waters 25 

V. Chaka's Flight from Home . . . .32 

VI. Chaka meets Isanusi . . . . .41 

VII. Isanusi doctors Chaka . . . .50 

VIII. Chaka comes to Dingiswayo. He kills a Mad¬ 
man. The War against Zwide's Country . 57 

IX. Ndlebe and Malunga come to Chaka . . 66 

X. Chaka captures Zwide . . . -73 

XI. The Death of Senzangakona . . .80 

XII. Noliwe . . . . . . -85 

XIII. Chaka and Isanusi at the Grave of Senzangakona 91 

XIV. Chaka is made Chief in his Father's Stead . 102 

XV. Zwide kills Dingiswayo. Chaka seizes the 

Chieftainship of Dingiswayo . . .109 

XVI. The new Tribe Name . . . .118 

XVII. Reforms and Regulations of Chaka . .127 

XVIII. The Death of Noliwe ..... 143 

XIX. The Slaughter of the Cowards . . -151 

XX. Chaka makes War against the South Umziligazi 160 

XXI. Nongogo and Mnyamana . . . .169 

XXII. The Death of Nandi.176 

XXIII. Unquenchable Thirst . . . . .182 

XXIV. Bad Dreams . . . . . .186 

XXV. Udonga-luka-Tatiyana .... 191 

XXVI. The Death of Chaka.196 




NOTE ON PRONUNCIATION OF AFRICAN NAMES 
Contributed by dr. a. werner 

All words are stressed on the penultimate syllable. In 
the apparent exceptions (Sesuto names ending in rig , such 
as Quthing) the final nasal ng forms a distinct syllable, 
pronounced as in 'sing'. With this exception every 
syllable ends in a vowel. Vowels are pronounced as in 
Italian, and each one is sounded separately, except in 
Sesuto words where oa and ea (in the spelling introduced 
by the French missionaries) stand for wa andjw: thus 
' Mangoaela ' is pronounced 'Ma-ngwa-è-la'. (This does not 
apply to one name occurring in the book, 'Ma-ko-a'.) 
G in Sesuto, unless preceded by «, has the Dutch value 
of Scottish or German ch\ e. g. 'Segoète' is pronounced 
'Se-chwè-te', with this 06 -sound. In Zulu, as in the name 
'Godongwana' g has the sound of the English g in 'gate' 
and ng as in 'finger'. HI is nearly the Welsh ll in 'Llan¬ 
dudno'. Th and ph as in 'hothouse' and 'haphazard', not 
as usually pronounced in English. C and q stand for 
clicks. Apart from the above sounds, all words are pro¬ 
nounced as spelt. Aba- and Ama- (sometimes shortened 
to Ba- and Ala-) are plural prefixes denoting tribal names. 
Zulu proper names always have an initial 117; but this is 
frequently omitted in the text, where we find, e. g., both 
'Unkulunkulu' and 'Nkulunkulu'. 


INTRODUCTION 

I 


N theory every work of art is self-contained, and 


ih independent of all external circumstance or explana¬ 
tion. But in actual life we find this theory too absolute: 
we can seldom receive the communication even of a 
master-artist without desiring some knowledge of his 
raw material, some familiarity with his method, some 
reason for sympathy with his artistic endeavour. These 
points of contact with the world of fact are in the present 
case more than commonly interesting, and I have no 
doubt that it will be better to touch upon them first, 
before inviting the reader to share the enjoyment which 
this narrative is capable of affording, whether as a history, 
an epic, or a tragic drama. 

The author, Thomas Mofolo, born about 1875, is a 
Mosuto, a native of Basutoland, and writes in Sesuto, 
the language of his people. His manuscript was trans¬ 
lated by Mr. F. H. Dutton, Director of Education, in 
collaboration with Mr. W. R. Moule, then Inspector of 
Schools, both at Maseru, Basutoland. With it was sent 
an account of Mofolo's life, written in English by 
another Mosuto, named Z. D. Mangoaela, who was at 
school with Mofolo, worked with him later at Morija, 
and is, like him, a Sesuto author. From Mangoaela we 
learn that Mofolo was the second son of Christian Basuto 
parents, and grew up amongst beautiful natural surround¬ 
ings at Qomoqomong in the district of Quthing, a fertile 
valley in the mountainous part of Basutoland. Between 
1880 and 1890, when Mofolo was a youth there, this valley 
afforded excellent pasture and grain lands, the mountainous 
hills and kloofs were still covered with natural forests 
and bamboo thickets, and streams flowed down the many 


197639 


viii INTRODUCTION 

gorges into the bigger stream Qomoqomong, on whose 
banks were rich fields of wheat, mealies, and kafir-corn. 
On the hills and plateaux game abounded, groups of 
monkeys were still to be seen, and there were leopards 
which preyed upon the cattle of the people. 

The boy was quiet, shy, and reserved, but he played 
and herded cattle with other boys and sometimes went 
with the 'transport riders', leading the oxen which drew 
the wagons bringing goods from the railhead: sometimes 
he joined in the hunts organized for killing game or 
monkeys on the mountains: and he saw or heard of the 
killing of leopards by older men. 

He then attended a school started by the Rev. Everitt 
Lechesa Segoete, a devoted pastor of the Church of 
Basutoland, founded by the Paris Evangelical Missionary 
Society. Thomas was never a brilliant scholar, but he 
worked hard and loved and admired his teacher and 
spiritual guide. After school hours, when he was not 
helping his parents, he used to go alone and sit on a 
kopje overlooking his village, preparing his lessons, 
looking at the beautiful scenery or watching the move¬ 
ments of the village people and their herds of cattle, sheep, 
and goats. 

When he was twenty years old he went to the Masitise 
Mission school, ten or twelve miles away, to prepare for 
the Normal School at Morija. At Morija he did well, and 
passed his Teacher's Certificate Examination in 1899. 
After this he studied theology at the Bible School at 
Morija, and learned carpentry at the Leloaleng Industrial 
School at Quthing. He then began teaching in the 
Maseru mission school and was soon recalled to teach at 
Morija. 

While there he worked also as a clerk and proof¬ 
reader at the joint offices of the Morija Book Depot and 


INTRODUCTION ix 

the Morija Printing Works, where the Leselinyam , the 
oldest Sesuto paper, is published; and it was during this 
time that he began his career as a writer. He had read all 
the religious and historical Sesuto books then published, 
some English historical books on South Africa, and some 
novels by writers like Rider Haggard and Marie Corelli; 
and he may have been encouraged to write by his em¬ 
ployers, the Rev. A. Casalis and afterwards the Rev. S. 
Duby. In 1906 the Feselinyana began to publish in serial 
form his first book 'Moeti oa Bochabela' ('The Pilgrim 
of the East'). This is described by Mr. Dutton as 'a 
surprise', and it was enthusiastically received. 'It was a 
new product—not a history, but a novel describing 
native life in ancient days. It told of a boy who became 
disgusted with the drunkenness, hatred, envy, and general 
unreasonableness of the people among whom he was 
born. In despair he says goodbye to his beloved oxen and 
wanders off in search of the unknown Creator who, he 
feels convinced, never intended his people to behave in 
a worse manner than brute beasts. The book is something 
like a mixture of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, and Olive 
Schreiner's Story of an African Farm.' 

After this followed 'Pitseng' (i.e. 'At the Pot'—the 
name of a village in a hollow): 'a love story describing 
the education and courtship of a modern Mosuto . . . 
written in what all natives say is the most charming 
Sesuto.' A third book was accidentally destroyed in 
manuscript, but is being rewritten from memory. 

Mangoaela's account adds that soon after the publica¬ 
tion of his second book Thomas Mofolo left Morija for 
Johannesburg and eventually took service in Basutoland 
North with the Native Recruiting Corporation of the 
Gold Mines; that he now lives partly there and partly at 
Bokong, in the mountains behind Tejatejaneng, where 


X INTRODUCTION 

he keeps a store of his own, and where his old parents 
have joined him. From time to time he revisits Maseru 
or Morija, and then disappears once more to his remoter 
dwelling. 'A tall well-built man, rather shy and reserved, 
Thomas Mofolo is now a business man and a progressive 
man, very popular with his friends and acquaintances, 
and an influential member of the Progressive Association 
of Basutoland.' 

The portrait is slight but authentic, and it belongs to a 
period of which we have as yet but few examples—the 
period of the Greater Commonwealth, which differs so 
remarkably from all Empires of the ages which have 
preceded it. Rome had her African colonies, and there 
were born in them writers who are still remembered. 
But there is a wide gulf between cultivated quasi-Romans 
such as Apuleius or Augustine, and the life of the primi¬ 
tive African world of the veld and forest. Mofolo takes 
us little more than a century back in time, but the society 
whose secrets he reveals to us is literally and in the deepest 
sense a prehistoric, or even a timeless society. In it we 
may see our own origins and the magnified image of our 
own spiritual conflicts. 

It is unfortunate that we cannot read his work in the 
language in which it was written. Translation is here 
more than usually thwarting, because the book is not a 
mere record of events, or a historian's analysis of motives, 
but a piece of imaginative literature. It has the persuasive 
charm, we are told, of a fine language finely written, and 
this naturally cannot be reproduced adequately in English 
—the translator has not attempted what is impossible. 
What he could do he has done. Knowing that the Bible 
narratives have filled a large place in the author's educa¬ 
tion, and have helped to form his thought if not his 
speech, he has reproduced in certain passages the language 


INTRODUCTION xi 

of the Authorized Version, and in other passages, where 
it is appropriate, he has made the diction conform to the 
same style. It is evident that in a narrative fluctuating 
between pure history, romantic story, and sheer tragedy, 
it is not easy to find and keep a uniform tone throughout. 
But the reader will probably agree that the key chosen is 
the right one. Mofolo has other affinities as well as the 
Scriptural, but this is for him the most natural, and it has 
also the advantage of being the readiest means of access 
to the ear of the Englishman. 

II 

It is right I think to speak of Mofolo's book as an imagina¬ 
tive work, but there can be no doubt that in the author's 
own view it is a serious contribution to history. His first 
four pages are enough to prove this, and his intention is 
further shown by the fact that he has made more than one 
journey into Natal to ascertain dates and other details for 
his narrative. The result is certainly an interesting and 
convincing record, probably a valuable one. If it is put 
side by side with accounts of the same events in such books 
as Miss Gollock's Lives of Eminent Africans , Sir Godfrey 
Lagden's The Basutos, and the Rev. A. T. Bryant's Olden 
Times in Zululand and Natal, it will be found to differ from 
them very seldom on points of fact, while it shows, as 
might be expected, more intimate knowledge of native 
life and thought, and a more serious attitude towards the 
character and motives of the African peoples and their 
chiefs. In Mofolo's pages not only Chaka himself, but 
all the persons in the drama (except the witch-doctors) 
are treated as inheritors of human feelings and an ancient 
culture: they are shown in turn as kindly or cruel, 
faithful or faithless, single-minded or ambitious, but they 
are never judged from a political standpoint, and still 


xii INTRODUCTION 

less are they ever portrayed as beings of an inferior race, 
childish or ridiculous even in their most violent and 
criminal moments. From any such mispresentation 
Mofolo is saved as well by his moral sense as by his 
artistic instinct. He is a soul by nature Christian, and sees 
in every crisis the clash of good and evil, of gentleness 
and militarism, of chivalry and brutality. For him Chaka's 
irresistible career is the perfect and unanswerable example 
of the ruin of human life by the rule of force, deliberately 
adopted and consistently followed. Dingiswayo is chosen 
to heighten the effect by contrast. He is not on the same 
scale as Chaka, and in battle he was probably no less 
whole-heartedly a fighting man; but his principal charac¬ 
teristic is skilfully brought out. In Chapter X, after the 
capture of his enemy Zwide, we are told that 'Dingiswayo 
detained his prisoner a few days and then released him, 
and sent him to his home in peace, as if he had paid a 
friendly visit and was never a prisoner'. In Chapter XXV 
we find Chaka on the last night of his life dreaming the 
last of his terrible dreams. Among them 'he saw his chief 
Dingiswayo, and the noble acts he did when he tried to 
instil a spirit of humanity into the tribe: and he saw 
himself bringing to naught those high endeavours'. By 
his conquest of the whole African world he had raised 
himself to almost superhuman rank: 'he had become the 
originator of all that was evil'. 

But this is not the whole account of the matter: it is 
only the vision of the sinner, agonized by remorse. 
Mofolo looks more deeply into it: he looks behind the 
crimes to the source of them. Chaka's guilt is the working 
out of a Nemesis: as the son of Nandi and Senzangakona 
he was 'a sin incarnate, damned from birth'. The tragedy 
falls naturally into five Acts. In the first we see the trials 
and triumphs of the boy, hated and ill-used by his more 


INTRODUCTION xiii 

legitimate half-brothers. In the second he flies from home, 
in danger of death, and on the open veld he meets the 
witch-doctor Isanusi, the tempter from nowhere, the 
visible symbol of his own hardening ambition. In the 
face of this mysterious stranger Chaka sees at one moment 
unbounded malice and cruelty, at the next compassion 
and the truest love. In a sweet voice which is not the 
voice of a deceiver he offers Chaka deliverance from his 
oppressors, and a chieftainship greater than that of his 
father. But the gaining of this will demand great sacrifices. 
Chaka accepts the bargain without hesitation. 

In the third Act Chaka comes to the capital of Dingi- 
swayo, falls in love with his new chief's sister Noliwe, and 
distinguishes himself in war. Isanusi's promises are all 
coming true: Senzangakona dies, and Chaka is appointed 
by Dingiswayo, as overlord, to succeed him. In the 
fourth Act Dingiswayo is murdered by Zwide, the enemy 
whom he had spared. Chaka steps into his place as over- 
lord, and is tempted by Isanusi to aim at a still wider 
lordship, to make himself the supreme chief of the African 
world. The sacrifice for this must be the life of his 
betrothed, Noliwe. Again he accepts without hesitation, 
and kills the victim with his own hand, in a scene which 
could not be surpassed for tenderness and horror. Nor 
could any hand better the art with which Isanusi per¬ 
suades him to this final and fatal decision. 

The fifth and last Act traces with great power the 
change which now comes upon Chaka and his world. 
The tragedy is no longer concerned merely with the fated 
fall of an ambitious chieftain: it becomes the apocalyptic 
vision of a monstrous beast, consumed by an all-destroy¬ 
ing blood-lust. To quench this unquenchable thirst 
Chaka's own child, his own mother, his own faithful 
warriors in thousands must all be sacrificed: and at last he 


xiv INTRODUCTION 

cannot sleep till he has slaughtered with his own hand. 
His deliverance can only come by death: his own brothers 
drive their spears into his heart, and as he falls dying his 
evil genius Isanusi is suddenly present to demand his 
reward. He is gone again as suddenly; we hear no more of 
him. Being but a symbol, an attribute, the evil part of the 
man's nature, he inevitably passes away with him. 

In this sketch I have drawn only the essential outlines 
of the drama, the mere bones of it: and this can give no 
idea of the richness and vitality of the whole work. It 
has many characters in it, and none of them are more 
curious than the two servants, Ndlebe and Malunga, 
whom Isanusi gave to Chaka for his attendants and 
guardians. They are gifted with sub-human faculties— 
animal cunning and acute animal senses—and they are 
clearly intended, like Isanusi himself, to symbolize 
faculties or instincts of Chaka's own nature. The whole 
business of the witch-doctor's profession is thus raised 
from the contempt which commonly attends it among our 
own writers, its real origin is hinted at, and its effects at 
least partly accounted for. At any rate it has become a fit 
subject for serious art. It is only upon these terms that 
magic can find an entrance into our Western scheme of 
thought. What we have hardly yet realized is that 
feelings or beliefs or practices which cannot claim any 
sanction from our religion, our science, or our philosophy 
may yet have a traceable origin and a psychological value: 
but not until they have been studied in their native 
environment. Some of our explorers have discovered 
this. I remember talking with a great African traveller of 
the rites and superstitions of the Bantus among whom 
she had been living. She told me of the native observance 
of throwing a propitiatory offering into the great river 
whenever her boat was passing the rapids or 'Singing 


XV 


INTRODUCTION 
Sands', and she added that she herself would invariably do 
as they did, not from policy but from a feeling identical 
with theirs. On the same occasion she told me of the 
same tribe's belief in an afterworld: a land into which 
the sun disappears every evening when he leaves us. 
Down there he does not shine: it is a twilight world, like 
the Hades of the Greeks. But life goes on there in every 
detail as it does here on earth: warriors hunt and women 
weave and lovers are wedded still, but only if they have 
made the journey of death together. The name of this 
land of reunion, Srahmandazi, is not mentioned by 
Mofolo, but the belief is evidently known among his 
people. Isanusi in his striking appeal to Chaka (on p. 146) 
to act according to his true nature, tells him that there is 
another life, and that 'all that a man does here the Sun 
when it sets takes with it to that great city of the living, the 
city of those who, ye say, have died and are dead: and 
his acts await him there'. Yet this does not in Mofolo's 
mind clash with that other passage on a later page: when 
Noliwe dies we are told that her spirit fled and went to 
Dingiswayo 'to the place of glory above'. So Mofolo, 
like Mary Kingsley, belongs not only to the Africa of the 
future, but to the Africa of the past: he can write of both 
with perfect sincerity, because his feeling is identical with 
both. This double sympathy is no small part of his claim 
on our attention—he belongs to an intermediate age 
which may be quickly passing. It would be well if we 
could ensure that his successors shall not be tempted to 
gain a more advanced civilization at the cost of becoming 
less characteristic Africans. 


HENRY NEWBOLT 


Chapter One 

NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER 

LOVER 


HE country of South Africa is a large peninsula lying 



-LL between two oceans, one to the east and one to the 
west of it. Its inhabitants belong to many and various 
tribes speaking different languages, yet they all fall easily 
into three main divisions. The tribes along the western 
sea-board are Bushmen and Hottentots of a yellow colour; 
the midland tribes are the Basuto and the Bechuana, and 
the eastern tribes are the Kafirs and the Matebele. The 
boundaries between them are broad and clear, for they 
have been put there by God and not by man. The western 
tribes are separated from the midlanders by wide water¬ 
less sandy wastes, and the midlanders are divided from 
the eastern tribes by a great range of lofty mountains 
which, beginning in Cape Colony, runs in a northerly 
direction parallel to the sea but at some distance from it. 
The differences are so striking that any one travelling 
from west to east feels them at once, and when he arrives 
among the Basuto of the midlands he realizes again that 
he has come into a different country and among different 
people. He feels the difference further when he crosses 
the mountains and comes down among the Matebele 
living on the other side. 

Our story is concerned with the eastern tribes, the 
Kafirs, and before we begin it we must describe the state 
of these tribes in the early days, so that the reader may be 
able to follow the narrative in the succeeding chapters. 

The greater part of Kafirland lies between the moun¬ 
tains and the sea and is covered with dense bush; hard 
frosts are unknown, for owing to its nearness to the sea 
there is never more than a slight touch of frost. It is a 


2 NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 
green country with luscious grazing, and the soil is a rich 
clay: this tells us that the crops are large. Its grasses are 
the 'seboku' and the 'tlanyane' and water stands in the 
valleys: this tells us that the cattle there are fat. The 
rivers are numerous: this tells us that there is plenty of 
rain. It is a land of mists which do not disperse till the sun 
is high: this tells us that there are no droughts and that 
the moisture remains long in the ground. 

In the early days when the country was first inhabited 
there was no part so thickly populated as Kafirland, for 
the villages there were both large and numerous. The 
people of this tribe surpassed all the other tribes in South 
Africa in their traditional knowledge of medicines, for 
they belonged to the bush country where medicines 
abound. Medicines for bewitchment, for enchantment, 
for murder, for fascination, for scattering one's enemies, 
for making oneself to be loved by people—in using these 
they were without rivals. Even the Bushmen, so famed 
for their knowledge of poisons, could not approach them. 
They were also famous for being able to converse with 
those who had died long before, and to receive advice 
from their spirits. 

Water-snakes are held in great reverence in Kafirland, 
and not only water-snakes but also the smaller reptiles 
such as the cobra, puff-adder, and others. If a person sees 
a snake it is a serious event foretelling either good luck 
or misfortune and punishment coming to him by the 
spirits of his ancestors. ^No snakes are killed in Kafirland, 
for whoever kills a snake commits a heinous crime and 
carries the shame of it all the days of his life. It is said that 
by his act he has cursed his ancestors and shamed them by 
killing their messenger. For in Kafirland the snake is a 
well-recognized messenger bringing tidings from the dead 
to their descendants. ) 


NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 3 

If a snake enters a hut while the owners are absent they 
will not enter again while it is there, but will sit outside 
until it comes out of its own accord: they think that one 
of their ancestors is pining for their society. Again, if a 
snake enters a hut where some event or other has recently 
taken place, it is said that the spirits have been angered or 
grieved at the acts of their descendants and will visit them 
with fearful punishments, such as disease or an attack by 
their enemies. The moment a snake enters a hut the 
owners give thanks to it or pray its pardon and beg for 
mercy from the angered spirits. Thus there are many 
snakes in Kafirland, for they are never killed. It will be 
easily understood that a snake will be a part of every 
medicine in Kafirland; it would be impossible to omit an 
ingredient of such potency. 

The first Kafir tribe a man meets when he comes down 
from the north between the mountains and the sea, going 
towards Delagoa Bay, is that of the Maswazi. On the 
other side of the Black Umfolosi are the Undwana, 
formerly ruled by Zwide. Between the Black and the 
White Umfolosi, as far as the sea, dwelt the Abatetwa, 
ruled by Jobe, or rather by his son Dingiswayo for he 
was more famous than his father. Between these two 
rivers, but a little higher up, dwelt a small weak tribe, the 
Ifenilenja, subordinate to Jobe. This was the tribe that 
in later times became so famous that all the tribes in Kafir¬ 
land were called by its name (Zulu). Near them were the 
Amangwana of chief Matiwane (the Mankoane of Matoo- 
ana who besieged Thaba Bosiu) and also the Amaqabe, 
Amafunze, Abatembu, Amakunze, Amahlubi, Aba- 
kwamacibise and the Amatuli (these last dwelt where the 
town called Durban is situated to-day). The reader must 
understand that we are speaking of the positions of the 
tribes long ago, when the land was first inhabited. The 




4 NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 
many weak tribes on the banks of the White Umfolosi 
had fled to Jobe, chief of the Abatetwa, and begged for 
his protection, for he was a man of mercy, and among 
them one was this small tribe of the Ifenilenja (Amazulu). 
In those days the Amazulu were the weakest of all; they 
were allowed to live only by the mercy and good-will of 
the great chief Jobe. The only thing they were famous 
for was the selling of snuff, clay pots, wooden dishes and 
things of that sort. 

There is no country in the world where wars do not 
take place. At one time or another tribes quarrel and 
prepare to fight: sometimes they fight for years, but in 
the end peace returns again and the country prospers 
once more. Sometimes when the tribes are dwelling in 
peace a male child is born to a chief in a certain tribe and 
that chief's son is enough to cause disturbances in the 
tribe, so that peace departs from the earth and he spills 
the blood of many though he be but one. But such 
slaughter as was seen in the 'great wars' was a thing not 
known in the days of old, when the country was first 
inhabited. The tribes were living in peace, each in its 
own habitation where it had been placed when Unkulu- 
nkulu (God) brought man out from the reed-bed. In that 
time of profound peace and prosperity there was no one 
who thought for a moment that the time was close at 
hand when their life would be utterly transformed or that 
one day they would wander over the land without any 
fixed abode, killed by hunger and thirst while in flight. 

The litde tribe of the Mazulu was in those days ruled 
by Senzangakona. He was still quite a young man and 
had three or four wives, but in all his huts there was not 
a single male child: there were only girls. He grieved 
for this and his heart was sore, for to be without an heir 
is a more distressful thing for a chief than for a common 


NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 5 
man, for a chief deplores the fact that the possessions of 
his house, his chieftainship, his country, and his people 
may be without an heir. In these circumstances Senza- 
ngakona therefore meditated marrying another wife, a 
junior one, who might provide him with boy children. 
Accordingly he caused a great feast and dance to be held, 
and during it he looked about secretly to see if there was 
any young girl who would take his fancy. Of the girls 
who came to the feast the one who pleased him most was 
Umnandi or Nandi ('the pleasant one'), a girl of Langeni's 
who was living at Qube in Senzangakona's country. 
Nandi was a great performer at songs and dances, skilled 
at clapping hands when the boys danced and at joining in 
the chorus when they sang. She was a tall upstanding 
girl, round and ruddy-golden in the face, with a nicely 
coloured skin and a plump body: she was a person who 
'cast a shadow'—so much so that many would say that 
her beauty was due to her shadow (personality). 

When the dancing and games were over beer was 
produced, and while people were drinking a party of boys 
went over to the girls and asked them to play 'Kana', and 
when Senzangakona saw them he made haste so that he 
might be present at the game. Nandi had already noticed 
what was in Senzangakona's mind and that he wanted her 
to choose him for her 'Kana'. To 'kana' is something 
like the Seliea-liea of the Basuto ('Choose-the-one-you- 
love-the-best'), but in some respects it is more like choos¬ 
ing a lover. Nandi was in love with Senzangakona so she 
chose him, and Senzangakona was very glad to be chosen 
by the one he loved. 

When the feast was at an end and the men and women 
had scattered to their homes the young people spent the 
night in games at Senzangakona's village and left early in 
the morning of the next day. Senzangakona told the 


6 NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 
maidens from Qube to wait for him in the hollow below 
his village among the fields. And there he tried his utmost 
to make Nandi do what is forbidden by law and common 
consent, until Nandi went away and left him alone in the 
fields. She was very sad when she found that the man 
whom she had chosen as her 'kana' did not love her with 
a pure love, and when she came up to the other girls she 
told them what Senzangakona had said to her. 

In those days in Kafirland an unmarried girl who bore 
a child was put to death and her boy and girl companions 
were put to death as well, that is to say all who slept in the 
same huts. It was said that the whole group must have 
known of her act when she committed it, and that they 
would corrupt the tribe and the younger generation by 
teaching them bad habits. 

The other girls were very sad when they heard of 
Senzangakona's evil designs. None the less they were 
afraid to make them known, because with the Black 
Races a chief is above the law. But in justice such designs 
of a young man ought to be made known at once, so that 
he alone may suffer death and his companions escape. But 
Senzangakona hoodwinked them with deceitful speeches 
and promises that he would marry Nandi and in the end 
he took her by force and accomplished the evil desire of 
his heart. 

When Nandi saw that her time had come she informed 
Senzangakona and he made hurried preparations to marry 
her for fear of the disgrace. He gave her parents fifty-five 
head of cattle and took her to his village quickly before 
people could notice her condition; but all the same Nandi 
was pregnant when she went to Senzangakona. When 
the time of her delivery approached Senzangakona sent 
Nandi back to her home, where she gave birth to a boy 
child, such as Senzangakona had longed and hoped for 


NANDI CHOOSES SENZANGAKONA AS HER LOVER 7 
night and day, and his joy was full and overflowing. The 
messenger who announced the event to Senzangakona 
said £ A boy child is born to thee, an ox to feed the vul¬ 
tures.' And indeed there never was a boy to whom these 
words could have more truly been applied. He was 
indeed a man child, in every sense an ox to feed the 
vultures, as the reader will see later. 

Senzangakona sent a message that very day to Jobe, 
his chief, to inform him that he had now a herdboy who 
would tend his cattle, who would fight his battles for him 
and succeed him in the chieftainship, and we shall see how 
much these words of Senzangakona's influenced events. 
On his arrival at Jobe's court the messenger found Jobe's 
sons there and he delivered the message in their hearing. 
When he had ended Jobe said: 'Go, tell thy master that I 
rejoice with him. May the child grow and wax strong 
and become a man indeed. So it is, Godongwana (Di- 
ngiswayo), he of whom we hear to-day shall be thy vassal. 
He will fight thy battles, not mine, for I am old. I shall be 
no longer here when he reaches manhood.' Jobe showed 
by his words that he knew what the child would become 
in the world and he judged aright in handing the matter 
over to his sons. 

The boy was given the name 'Chaka' by his father, and 
when the month of purification was over, he ordered 
Nandi to bring the child to him so that he might see and 
know him. And afterwards Nandi returned to her home 
with the babe Chaka to shield him from witchcraft, for it 
had been said that it was owing to witchcraft that wives 
of Senzangakona were unable to bear male children. 


Chapter Two 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 
• a baby Chaka was a fine little fellow with fat cheeks 



aA who never cried even when he fell down. Even 
when he was beaten he did not often cry: he might cry for 
a moment and then be quiet. Children generally weep 
loudly when they are beaten and beg for mercy and 
declare how repentant they are, or else they run away. 
Never once did Chaka do any of these things. He thought 
that to beg for mercy gave satisfaction to the punisher 
and that to run away was cowardly, and that when one was 
beaten for doing wrong one should bear the flogging 
patiently. All the same Chaka was a well-behaved little 
fellow who gave his mother no trouble. Those who knew 
him as a child say that any one could have watched him 
playing with other children without knowing who he was, 
but that as soon as they looked in his face and talked with 
him they would see at once that he was of royal blood and 
not the child of a common man. They say that all who 
saw him used to say 'It is a lion's whelp; it is a wild beast 
cub brought up by hand.' Such remarks were always 
passed when people were speaking of him. 

When his father had seen him Chaka returned to Qube, 
and when he was weaned Nandi went back alone to 
Senzangakona, while Chaka remained at Qube, whither 
there were sent to him from time to time cattle and goats, 
'for his food', as the saying was. 

There was a woman witch-doctor at Bungani (Pokane) 
who was very famous for attracting and for bringing good 
luck, such as would make a chief to be loved by his people 
and by other chiefs. When the ceremony of Lomola was 
performed on Chaka at his home this woman was called 
in to chew the meat for him to eat. When she came she 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 9 

said that Chaka was still very young and not yet ready for 
the potent medicines of chieftainship, so she only doctored 
him with the medicines for bringing good luck that he 
might be fortunate in all things. So she took the gall of 
the yellow snake of Kafirland—a snake to which the 
Matebele pay the greatest reverence and which they say is 
sent as a messenger by the dead—and mixed it with the 
medicine and gave it to the child to drink, saying that he 
would have great good fortune during his lifetime, 
greater than any man had ever had before. 

She gave Nandi the medicine horn and said: 'When¬ 
ever the moon is at its last stage, bathe this child in the 
river when it is yet early before the sun has risen. When 
he has been bathed he must come up from the river 
quickly and go home. And when the first rays of the sun 
shine on the village where he dwells thou must take of 
this medicine and smear his head therewith. Thou must 
anoint the middle of his head only in the place where the 
head of a child throbs and also his uncut forelock. All this 
thou must do before he has taken food; moreover thou 
must bathe him in a big river and not in a small stream. 
When the child is grown up and is able and knoweth to 
bathe himself, leave him when he goes into the water and 
stand on one side in hiding. Go not to him, unless he call 
thee: and if he call let him not shout but only whistle. If 
when he is in the water he sees anything which may 
affright him, let him not run away, come what may. And 
thou must not at any time ask him what he saw there. 
He may tell thee of his own accord, but in that case it 
must be a secret between you two. When this child 
becomes a man and goes to bathe in this fashion, he 
must never go with another man: he must go by himself, 
or with a woman if he wishes that another should be 
present.' 


10 SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 

About the time when Chaka was past the crawling 
and standing stage, and was beginning to walk, there was 
born to his father Senzangakona a boy child by the wife 
who was second in seniority, and that child was called 
Mfokazana. When Chaka was weaned Nandi returned 
to her husband at Nobamba, and just as she arrived yet 
another boy child was born to Senzangakona. He was 
named Dingana and he also was of one of the great wives. 
And from now on misfortune dogged Chaka and his 
mother. Before this Nandi was of great importance at 
Nobamba, for the wives loved her for having taken away 
their shame by giving birth to a boy and Senzangakona 
also loved her, because he had had by her the son he had 
desired so long. Nandi was given the best of food so that 
she might be able to nourish Chaka generously and she 
was a great lady then, but when Mfokazana and Dingana 
were born there was a great change. The wives gave 
their attention to the children that had been born after¬ 
wards and said that Mfokazana was the heir, and next to 
him Dingana. Meanwhile Senzangakona had again be¬ 
come the father of a boy, Mhlangana, and his mother also 
Hiad been married before Nandi. And now Nandi's cause 
was lost. 

The circumstances of Chaka's birth were not publicly 
known, for very few knew that Nandi was pregnant when 
she was married and these few would not disclose the 
secret for fear of the consequences. Some, perhaps, who 
had given thought to the matter had noticed that the 
period of her pregnancy was shorter than that of other 
women. 

As Senzangakona still loved Chaka and his mother 
dearly the other wives became very vexed and said that 
Senzangakona should declare publicly the order of senior¬ 
ity of his children so that they and the tribe might know 


II 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 
it; but Senzangakona refused. The wives discussed the 
question for a long time among themselves, and finally 
told the councillors to advise the chief to make matters 
regular with regard to his children. However, when the 
councillors broached the matter Senzangakona became 
very angry and told them to leave his private life alone: 
their function was a public one only. Then the wives 
sent for a witch-doctor to turn Senzangakona's heart 
away from Nandi, so that whenever he intended visiting 
her his conscience would trouble him and he would come 
back again. 

Nandi returned to her home at Qube for her second 
confinement and as soon as she had gone the wives 
appeared before Senzangakona and with bitter feeling 
declared that Nandi must never come back again to 
Nobamba. Senzangakona tried to refuse his consent, but 
the women said: 'Do thou think well before thou speak- 
est: as for us our patience is gone. Thou didst refuse to 
tell the people as we bade thee, that though Chaka is the 
first born the heir is Mfokazana, and after him Dingana 
and then Mhlangana. Now to-day thou refusest thy 
consent when we say that Nandi must not return to this 
place. We will not suffer ourselves to be shamed by a 
dog like Nandi, who came to thee already pregnant, while 
we were married to thee as virgins without spot or 
stain. We have borne thee children and have filled thy 
huts, and the cattle will come here in great numbers and 
the kraals will soon be full. Further we have borne thee 
boy children. If there had been no sons of ours, then we 
could understand. To-day we will tell thy story and 
Nandi's and will bring the matter before the great chief, 
Jobe.' 

When Senzangakona heard this he was much frightened 
and trembled, for he saw that his shame and Nandi's 


12 SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 

would now become known. Nandi and her companions 
would be put to death and he as well, since although he 
was the chief he had set the people a bad example. He 
therefore begged his wives to let the matter go no further 
and told them that Mfokazana and not Chaka would 
succeed him as chief, and he promised also that Nandi 
should not set foot in Nobamba again. But his wives said 
that to satisfy them it was necessary that Nandi together 
with her child Chaka should be driven away from Qube 
to her home at Langeni. And Senzangakona did drive 
her away, but afterwards he persuaded his wives to allow 
her to return to Qube. But the wives of Senzangakona in 
their folly did not see to it that Senzangakona explained 
to Jobe the seniority of his sons, and therefore Jobe still 
continued to regard Chaka alone as the heir. 

We cannot describe the grief which Senzangakona felt 
at having to part with his son Chaka and his wife Nandi, 
for he had great love for them. But he was in a panic 
about his affair with Nandi and did not wish people to 
hear a single whisper of it. He therefore thought it better to 
give up Nandi and her son and regard them as lost to him 
for ever. Besides he saw that unless he gave up Chaka, 
not only would Nandi and her companions be put to 
death but his little kingdom also would be torn to pieces 
when his sons grew up. So he closed his eyes, accepted 
his fate, and gave up his wife and her boy child. 

There is a proverb, 'Scandal is not like bread: there is 
never any shortage', and though Senzangakona had 
hidden so carefully his affair with Nandi yet it was cer¬ 
tainly known, and although it was not common know¬ 
ledge all the same people knew of it and alluded to it. 
And as soon as men heard of the charge they hated Chaka 
and Nandi with a fearful hatred and agreed with Senza- 
ngakona's wives that Mfokazana was the heir, and they 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 13 

even wanted Chaka to be killed as being born of sin: he 
was only a child, but he was illegitimate. 

Chaka was terribly ill-treated when he went herding 
the calves; the other herdboys persecuted and tormented 
him all day and every day for no reason. One day when 
they were herding they sent him to head off the calves, 
and when he came back he heard one of them say 'Seize 
him.' They seized and beat him until they were tired and 
then they desisted. He tried to ask why he was being 
beaten, but got no answer and he saw that the question 
merely made them beat him the more. The herdboys 
persecuted Chaka because they heard people say that it 
would be a good thing if they killed him. Once during 
these daily fights Chaka knocked out a boy's eye. The 
next day the boy's father seized Chaka and gave him a 
severe beating, wounding him terribly. 

This incessant fighting taught Chaka how to use a 
stick, how to parry the many blows directed at him at 
one and the same time, and how to strike while keeping 
his head guarded: also it taught him swiftness and how to 
escape by running. He was quite fearless when fighting, 
because he had become accustomed to it, nor was he short 
of breath when he took to flight. He learnt to parry 
quickly, to stoop, to dodge, to give ground and then 
leap up and strike home at the right time. 

Chaka's grandmother was distressed at the hard life 
which Chaka was leading when herding calves, and when 
he was beaten by the injured boy's father she took him 
away and put him to scare birds from the fields of kafir corn. 
For this he had to get up early in the morning when it was 
still dark, keeping alight the wisp of tinder-grass which 
burnt his fingers before he reached his field. He had to 
walk through the chilly dew and arrive at his place too 
cold to be able to scare the birds. The other bird scarers 


i4 SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 

did not beat him, but they mocked him, spat when they 
spoke to him, made faces at him and generally caused him 
to look ridiculous. Chaka did not know what crime he 
had committed or how he had transgressed to deserve all 
this. Truly there never was a child who grew up under 
such hardships as Chaka did: it is indeed distressing for 
any one to be deserted by his father. 

The herdboys now became much disgusted at having 
nothing to do, for previously they had been able to use 
Chaka to relieve the tedium of their days; so they went to 
fetch Chaka from the fields where he was. While Chaka 
was sitting resting he saw a gang of boys suddenly appear 
quite close to him, some in the ploughed field, some in the 
thick grass and some all round him. He looked this way 
and that but there was nowhere he could flee, and worst 
of all his stick was some distance away at his shelter- 
place. They seized and beat him till he fainted and then 
threw him into a deep hole in the long grass and left him 
for dead. A woman who had gone to look at the fields 
was watching them from a distance, and when she reached 
the spot where they had thrown him she found Chaka not 
dead but unconscious. She poured water over him and 
placed him in the shade where it was cool, and Chaka 
soon recovered. However, he was too weak to stand, so 
the good woman went and told his relations who came 
and carried him home on an ox hide. 

This was too much for Nandi and she told Senzanga- 
kona what a hard life Chaka was leading, but he did not 
reply to her. Though his heart also was sore and he 
controlled his feelings with difficulty, yet he knew that if 
he spoke he would be giving other people the chance to 
speak also. His wives, who saw the messenger, told 
Senzangakona to cease sending cattle and goats as food 
for Chaka, and much against his will he obeyed them in 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 15 

order to keep his shame concealed. How bitter is the 
fruit of sin. Here was Senzangakona parted from the wife 
he loved and whom he had married with fifty-five head 
of cattle, and parted from his child Chaka the first son he 
had ever had, and worst of all forced to persecute them 
as well. 

From now on Chaka's grandmother forbad him to herd 
or even to scare birds and Chaka became a laughing-stock 
and a stay-at-home. 

When Chaka became a youth Nandi took him to her 
witch-doctor to be treated with medicines, which would 
protect him from people who wished to take his life. The 
witch-doctor took a little powder and mixed it with other 
medicines and gave it to them saying, 'When the moon is 
about to go into darkness Chaka must get up early and 
go to the river as before. When he has finished bathing 
and is still at the river he must inoculate himself with this 
medicine and then come home and smear his head with the 
medicine which I gave you before. The result will be that 
even if people surround him in a mob they will not be 
able to hold him in; he will scatter them with ease; he 
will kill, but will not be killed. Moreover, I confirm 
what I said before that this child will receive blessings 
innumerable. Hast thou ever seen aught at the river 
when thou wast bathing ?' Chaka said he had not. Then 
the woman took him by the hand and felt his pulse and 
said: 'Of great import are the happenings which will take 
place in the life of this child. I will hasten and will return 
from Zwide's village whither I have been called, and if it 
is possible I shall be with you here on the tenth day from 
now. If the tenth day pass by, ye must know that my 
work delays me and I will send one to inquire for me how 
things are, since I know that Chaka will go early to the 
river to-morrow, for that is his day.' 


16 SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 

On the road it occurred to the witch-doctor that Chaka 
must not be a timid person or it would spoil the effect of 
her medicines. So she sent him medicines of two kinds— 
one for drinking and one for inoculation—that he might 
become brave and warlike, that he might be stout-hearted 
and without fear. Among the ingredients were the liver 
of a lion, the liver of a leopard and the liver of a man who 
had been a great warrior in his lifetime. The liquid 
portion was sprinkled upon Chaka's food and she ordered 
him to be inoculated by a woman who had just borne a 
child, and moreover a first-born child. 

The messenger brought the medicines and Chaka was 
inoculated in his presence, after which the messenger re¬ 
turned. From that time Chaka had a wonderful love for 
fighting—either with the club or the spear. When he slept 
at night he dreamt of it, and in the day-time while awake 
he dreamt of it. When he saw a man with a stick or spear 
in his hand his whole body itched to come into contact 
with him. He dreamt that tribe after tribe was attacking 
him, and he saw himself scattering them single-handed 
with none of his people to help him. The only conversa¬ 
tion he enjoyed was about fighting. Even before this 
Chaka was a great fighter, but he was never the challenger 
or the aggressor; but now these medicines excited him 
and he went forth to the veld in spite of his grandmother's 
orders. 

As soon as he arrived there the herdboys all attacked 
him, but he gave them such terrible bleeding wounds that 
they scattered in flight. And very soon they let him alone 
and he became their leader. At the pools his cattle drank 
first, and the best grass was their grazing place. At the 
end of any fight he was full of joy and felt pleasantly 
refreshed, like the venomous snake which after biting a 
man falls ill until the man dies and then casts its skin and 


SENZANGAKONA CASTS OFF NANDI 17 

begins once more to move about again. Chaka soon 
noticed that he did not tire even when he was fighting 
for a long while; he only felt tired when he had finished 
his enemies. During the fight his stick struck home and 
with such force that his enemies were sent spinning to the 
ground; but their sticks touched him lightly as if they 
were stalks of grass. 


c 


Chapter Three 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 


NE day when Chaka was still an uncircumcized 



youth he took the cattle out to graze when it was 
early and almost dark, so that the daylight should find 
them well up the slopes above the plough-lands. At the 
moment that he was taking them out of the kraal, a lion 
entered one of the other kraals in the village and went off 
with a calf. It evidently ate what it wanted and left off 
when it found that day was breaking, and lay down on 
the spot, for the grass was very thick there. Chaka went 
on with the cattle, not knowing that he was following in 
the track of this terrible animal. Suddenly, in the twink¬ 
ling of an eye, the cattle turned round and bolted right 
back to the village and Chaka was left wondering what 
it was they had heard or seen. As there was nothing else 
to be done he followed them back to the village. 

By this time the sun was rising, and the people in the 
village saw the cattle scattering away from him, and 
realized that they must have seen the lion, for the owners 
of the kraal which had been entered during the night 
were telling the others what had happened just when 
Chaka's cattle bolted. As they were discussing the event 
they saw the lion leave the place where the cattle had been 
and steal quietly off in the direction of the wood, but as 
the wood was a long way off it lay down in the grass under 
a big tree. 

Chaka arrived as the men were making plans for 
pursuit, so he went with them. They formed a large 
circle, walking close together so that the lion would be 
puzzled to know which man to attack, and which to 
leave alone. When they disappeared in a fold in the 
ground the lion rose up and, instead of running away. 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 19 

came forward to meet them. Up and down hill he went, 
and zigzagged to confuse his spoor; and before he came 
into their view he lay down and waited for them. They 
came along running in close formation and cheering one 
another on, saying that they must keep together, and when 
the lion sprang upon any of them the others were to 
run to their assistance at once: there was to be no running 
away. They ran along with their skins all goose-flesh, 
their bodies cold, and their hair standing on end, for they 
knew that they were going to meet the wild beast face to 
face. While they were encouraging each other in this 
way suddenly they heard the lion roaring quite close to 
them, and by the sound of its roar they knew that it was 
about to spring. It roared once only—rrrr—and then it 
was upon them. 

'O, tawny one, rise in thy might, 

O tawny, yellow giant. 

When thou dost not eat men's cattle 

Thou dost eat by thyself the beasts that roam at night. 

Thou hast no elder relations with whom to share thy 

booty, as have we. 

For thyself alone thou killest and tearest the meat to 

pieces.' 

They scattered in all directions in pell-mell flight, most 
of them running towards the village: they never even saw 
the lion, but merely heard its roaring. Some went uphill, 
some downhill, some crossways, and some made straight 
home, and the very man who had been encouraging the 
others was the first to run away; though the poor man 
was not first by very much, for they all rushed away 
together. 

As the lion sprang it caught one man, brought him to 
the ground and lay upon him. Chaka, who was on the 


c 2 


20 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 
outside wing, came running up, and first of all tried to 
stop one of the men and get him to join in the rescue, 
but it was evident that the man could neither speak nor 
stop: flight was the only thing for him. Chaka ran on 
shouting so that the lion might hear that some one was 
coming, and thus be hindered from killing his victim at 
once. 

When Chaka was still a little way off the lion roared 
once more, and his roar made the fugitives quicken their 
speed, for they thought that the lion was there close 
behind them. He roared again and the earth trembled, 
and the lion's roar seemed to re-echo in the very bellies 
of the cowards running away. 

At the next roar the lion sprang—'the yellow calf, the 
wild beast of the forests'—sprang with his mane up¬ 
standing, his eyes blazing, his tail stretched straight out, 
and his claws bared ready to devour a man. The lion 
sprang once more, and this time he was upon him. 

As Chaka was entirely without fear he simply waited 
for it and let it jump, but while it was in the air he moved 
slightly to one side. The lion continued in its original 
course, for, not being a bird, it could not change its course 
in the air. While it was still in the air, and just before it 
reached the ground, Chaka stabbed it behind the shoulder 
with his spear, so that when it reached the ground it 
fell—a mighty fall. While it was dying its roars were 
terrible to hear. Chaka looked at it without fear: it did 
not seem as if he was looking at a deadly beast of prey 
which had just attacked him. 

The crowd of men had just reached the village when 
Chaka stabbed the lion, and its last terrible roars made all 
the fugitives rush into the huts with never a look behind. 
They closed the doors and made them fast, shutting the 
women and children outside where they stood, for they 


21 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 
thought that the lion was actually in the village. The 
shrieks of the women sounded to the men in the huts 
like the shrieks of people being killed by the lion, so they 
fastened the doors more tightly than ever. 

Chaka went up to see the man whom the lion had 
attacked, but found that he was already dead. He was 
surprised, for he had come to the rescue quickly, but the 
lion had broken the man's neck with its paw when it 
leapt upon him, and while it lay on top of him, thinking 
he was still alive, he was really already dead. 

With the men it had been a veritable race home; it 
had been a case of 'don't pass me, let me pass you', and 
they did not even know the name of the man killed by 
the lion. But the women saw clearly what was happening, 
for they watched from a distance and did not run away. 
When they saw that Chaka had killed the lion they told 
the men in the huts what had happened, and called to 
them to come out and go and help him carry it in. But 
the men insisted that the lion had hidden in the long 
grass, for it was impossible for a boy like that to have 
killed it (for they could see that Chaka was still there, 
moving about). Chaka waited and waited until at last, 
when he saw that they were not coming, he shouted to 
them that the lion was dead. And then the men began to 
believe that it really was dead, but at the same time they 
felt ashamed that they had run away and left a man struck 
down by a wild beast, especially as this wild beast was 
afterwards killed by a boy, a youngster with a smooth 
chin who had never yet gone to the wars. It was difficult 
for them to make a start, and the women, and more 
especially the girls, when they saw that no one was going, 
started out themselves. Then at last some of the men 
began to go, but others stayed where they were, overcome 
with shame. 


22 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 

The lion was carried without being skinned to Senza- 
ngakona at Nobamba, and he sent it on to Dingiswayo who 
was his chief now that Jobe was dead, according to the law 
which says, 'A beast of prey must be eaten at the chief's 
village'. He said that the animal had been killed by his 
son Chaka absolutely unaided when all the men had fled. 
He did not know that in saying this he was winning favour 
for Chaka with the chief. 

This affair of the lion caused a good deal of jealousy in 
the village; the young men and warriors felt ashamed 
when every one pointed out Chaka, and added that all the 
rest had run away and shut themselves in the huts. And 
then it was that the girls composed the following song: 

'In Qube's village there is a shortage of young men. 
There is only one left. 

In Qube's village there is a shortage of grown men. 

All of them are cowards. 

They ran away and left their companion on the veld. 
They left their comrade fighting with a wild beast. 

It was he who overthrew the lion of the mighty jaws. 
Senzangakona has no subjects: they will leave him to 
be killed. 

Senzangakona, call thy son back home to thee. 

He is a man-child, a warrior who will fight for thee and 
overcome thy enemies.' 

This song they sang wilfully and of design wherever 
many people were gathered together. The women of 
Nandi's age, her companions, also composed a song of 
their own which concluded with these lines: 

'The people have departed and we are left with something 
else. 

We are left with things that call themselves men, but are 
not. 


CHAKA KILLS A LION 23 

What shall we say of the boy Chaka ? 

Marvel ye women of Qube. 

The wives of Senzangakona profit not; 

The one and only wife is Nandi, 

For she hath brought forth a child, a man-child indeed.' 

In reading these songs the reader should remember 
that there is nothing more galling for a person than to 
be sung at by women in mockery and contempt, just as 
there is nothing so pleasant as when they sing one's 
praises. We are speaking of the old days of our ancestors, 
not of the present time. 

These two songs put a bad spirit into the young men 
and the warriors, for they saw that the girls would go 
with Chaka and that they would not be looked at. For 
in those days women were not attracted by a man, 
however good-looking, if he was a coward. The aim of 
every woman was to find a husband who was a real fighting 
man, a true warrior when spears were wielded or when 
occasions like this arose. However ill-favoured, such a 
man was loved, and songs were composed to extol him 
and bring into contempt all other men. 

In a way we cannot blame them for this, for those were 
rough days, and a woman who wanted protection had to 
choose a man of that kind, who was feared by others, a 
brawny defender. 

This evil spirit spread and reached Mfokazana and his 
friends, and they all plotted to murder Chaka some time 
or other when he might be attending a big feast. The 
senior wives of Senzangakona also said that the women of 
Qube had insulted them in their songs, and that Senza¬ 
ngakona ought to take the matter up for them. When 
things were in this state a messenger from Dingiswayo 
came to Senzangakona and said: 'Dingiswayo greets thee 


24 CHAKA KILLS A LION 

and says that it is now long since thou didst send tidings 
to Jobe his father that there was a man-child in thy house. 
When wilt thou send the child to him that he may see and 
know him ? He gives thee thanks for the lion thou didst 
send him, and bids thee send Chaka that he may return to 
thee with the calf which my master Dingiswayo will give 
thee as an offering of thanks.' 

These words cooled the wrath of the wives and also of 
the men at Qube, for they all saw clearly that if Chaka 
were to die, Dingiswayo would require his death at their 
hands. Chaka, too, heard of this message of Dingiswayo, 
but none the less he waited to hear the tidings from 
his father's own lips; but his father remained silent. 
At that time Chaka still loved his father, and believed that 
the day would come when he would succour him: but 
that day never came, the course of his life was to shape 
itself with no assistance from him. In fact, it became 
evident that his father, instead of succouring Chaka, was 
fanning the flame that was to destroy him. 


Chapter Four 

CHAKA IS VISITED BY THE LORD OF THE 
DEEP WATERS 



HE day for Chaka to rise early and go to the river 


¦1L came again, and he went there very early: his mother 
went with him, for she had noticed a dangerous spirit 
among the people. No one else knew that Chaka's time 
for going to the river had come. 

When they reached the river (the White Umfolosi) his 
mother hid herself near to where her son was bathing. 
(The reader must remember that among the Kafirs it is 
not considered shameful for a mother to see her son 
bathing naked, for it is common for people to go naked 
in Kafirland.) 

When Chaka had nearly made an end of washing 
himself his forelock trembled and quivered, and the skin 
underneath it grew hot. For a moment his skin throbbed 
with the heat, and then suddenly became quite still. It 
was very early, long, long before sunrise, and he was 
bathing in a dangerous and fearsome spot. Above where 
he was there was a mighty waterfall, and below this—just 
where he stood—an enormous basin of rock, forming a 
fearsome pool with great depths of green water. In the 
middle of the basin the water was as dark as night. On 
the other side of the river and opposite him, right at the 
water's edge, was a great cavern, a dark black hollow 
which shelved away out of sight, and the bottom of the 
deep pool was likewise out of sight. The river beyond 
the pool was covered with bulrushes standing close 
together, and on its far side bush hid the rocky bank, 
reaching down to the water's edge in such a dense mass 
that it made a veritable tangle of intertwining branches. 


26 CHAKA IS VISITED BY THE 

It was so awesome a place even in the day-time that no 
man would bathe there alone: it was a place fit only for 
the 'tikoloshi' (water-devil). Chaka used to bathe there 
alone, but that was because he was Chaka. 

Chaka splashed the water again with his hand, and at 
once the broad river rose and fell in the pool, making 
waves in all directions; it rose and swelled and foamed 
until he saw that it would engulf him, so he made his way 
out. When he had come out a strange hot wind blew, the 
reeds on the banks quivered and tossed violently, and then 
were suddenly still and stood up straight again, as if no 
wind had ever blown. The water receded, the wind fell, 
and the deep, green pool rippled slightly to show some 
great thing was passing through the midst of it. 

Nandi saw all this and trembled with fright. She wished 
to go to Chaka, but feared the stern command, 'Thou 
shalt not go to him unless he call thee'. Her heart ached 
for Chaka to call her. While Chaka was gazing deep into 
the pool where the ripples of water were, he saw the 
huge head of an enormous snake emerge suddenly very 
close to where he was. It had long ears like those of a 
hare, but in shape they were more like the ears of a field- 
mouse. Its eyes resembled great green hammer-stones, and 
its whole appearance was unimaginably terrifying. It came 
out of the water towards Chaka as far as its shoulders. 
Dauntless as he was, Chaka felt his body shiver as he saw 
it coming towards him, and his first idea was to seize his 
stick and spear and defend himself, but he remembered 
the question he had been asked twice by his witch-doctor, 
'Hast thou seen aught at the river when thou hast been 
bathing ? ' So he abandoned that idea, saying to himself 
that perhaps the snake had been attracted by the medicines 
on his body, and that this was the very thing he had been 
questioned about. He stood perfectly still, frozen with 


LORD OF THE DEEP WATERS 27 

fear, and looked it squarely in the eyes : but what a fear¬ 
some sight it was! When it approached him it put out its 
two long tongues and pointed them at him, as if it were 
going to draw him into its mouth, for its jaws were big 
enough to swallow him easily. When Chaka saw the 
tongues coming towards him he was terrified and 
a-tremble with fear. This was the first time that he ever 
felt fear of this kind—a coward's fear. He was so 
frightened that he almost turned and ran, but he remem¬ 
bered the stern command: 'Thou shalt not flee, come 
what may.' 

Because of his fear he shut his eyes, so that if the snake 
should kill him it might do so without his eyes seeing its 
face. He put up his hand slowly and grasped the lock 
of his hair as he had been told to do if he was ever very 
frightened, and whistled gently to call his mother. Nandi, 
too, by this time had covered her face, for she was afraid to 
look upon her child being swallowed by this monster of 
the water, but when she heard the whistle she uncovered 
her face and looked. She was more frightened than ever 
when she saw the animal so close to Chaka. Instead of 
going to him she crouched down on the ground and gazed 
from a distance, trembling so much that she was unable 
to cry out or even to weep. 

When Chaka opened his eyes, as he found that the 
snake did not touch him, he saw it looking him squarely 
in the eyes, but there was only a little of it showing above 
the water, and the tongues were drawn in again. It was 
clear that it was returning to the water backwards; if 
Chaka had delayed opening his eyes he would have found 
it gone. When he had opened his eyes he looked into 
the centre of the snake's eyes, and the snake regarded him 
in the same way. They looked at each other thus without 
stirring for a long time, the snake in its own domain and 


28 


CHAKA IS VISITED BY THE 
man, the intruder. And while they looked at each other 
thus Chaka's hand still clung to the lock of his hair that 
had been anointed with medicine. At last the snake came 
out of the water towards him, making no noise or splash, 
but emerging gently and showing that it was going to 
approach near to him again. He gazed at it, and when it 
was as near as it had been when he had closed his eyes 
before, it put out its tongues—one on each side of his 
neck, right round and crossing behind it and joining 
together in front. Then, holding on by these, it drew 
itself out of the water and wound itself all about his body; 
then it released its tongues and licked him from the top 
of his head to the sole of his foot. 

When it had made an end, it raised its head to the level 
of Chaka's eyes and looked closely at him, and its hot foul¬ 
smelling breath covered him like steam; then it licked his 
eyes again and his whole face, and went backwards into 
the water, still keeping its eyes fixed upon him. 

Chaka did not see where the body of the snake ended, 
for there was always part of it hidden in the water; that 
is to say, not even Chaka knew how long it was. When it 
finally disappeared the water of the river was agitated in 
a fearsome manner and swelled up again: a cold wind 
blew and the reeds waved and twisted, and a thick mist 
rose from the pool like a column of cloud and enveloped 
Chaka, so that he could see nothing even of things near 
him, and in the reeds something sang in a voice loud and 
deep: 

'Mphu-mphu ahe-ee 
Kalamajoeng, Kalamajoeng. 

Mphu-mphu ahe-ee 
Kalamajoeng, Kalamajoeng. 

There is a great monster in the water, 
Kalamajoeng, Kalamajoeng. 


\ 


29 


LORD OF THE DEEP WATERS 
Seen only by the favoured, 

Kalamajoeng, Kalamajoeng. 

Seen only by those who are born to rule the nations, 
Kalamajoeng, Kalamajoeng.' 

The words were repeated twice, and then there was 
silence. And then a very gentle voice sang, 

'Ahe, ahe. The world is thine, child of my own people. 
Thou shalt rule the nations and their governors. 

Thou shalt rule all the nations of men. 

Thou shalt rule the winds and the storms of the sea 
And the deep pools of the mighty rivers. 

And all things shall obey thy word. 

They shall kneel down beneath thy feet. 

E, oi, oi. But beware thou takest the right path.' 

Chaka only heard the words, he saw nothing because of 
the mist which enveloped him. But as the voice ended 
its song (which Chaka had not heard very clearly) the 
mist lifted and left him; it did not go back into the water 
whence it came, but it suddenly ended and was not—we 
must imagine it as being absorbed by Chaka himself. 
Nandi did not hear the voices, she only saw the snake 
and the turbulent water and the whirlwind in the reeds. 
But as for the voices, she did not hear them, although she 
was not very far away: which clearly shows that they were 
intended for the ears of Chaka only. After these marvels 
Chaka dressed and came up from the river, and as he 
reached home the first rays of the sun lit up the village, 
and his mother anointed him with medicine in the 
appointed way. 

The same day Nandi sent to Zwide's village to tell the 
tidings to the witch-doctor. When the messenger re¬ 
turned he said that the witch-doctor was detained, but 


30 CHAKA IS VISITED BY THE 

that she promised to come to them by the end of that 
month; if she did not appear by then they were to go to 
her at Zwide's village. 

The appointed month passed, but the witch-doctor 
did not appear, and while they were preparing to go to 
her a messenger arrived with grievous tidings for Chaka 
and his mother: their witch-doctor was dead. We cannot 
describe their despair, their anger, and dismay, for they 
had the greatest faith in this witch-doctor, since they saw 
that her prophecies were really fulfilled just as she had 
given them. They wondered where they could find 
another true and real witch-doctor. 

When the messenger saw their dismay he said: 'Your 
witch-doctor said that I should tell you not to disturb 
yourselves if death should take her; for as soon as she 
felt that death was nigh, she sent far away to fetch the 
doctor who taught her witchcraft, and asked him to finish 
the medicining of Chaka, as she herself would be pre¬ 
vented by death. Clearly, if the one who is coming taught 
your doctor witchcraft, his knowledge and understanding 
of medicines and charms will be even greater than hers. 
This man is not a witch-doctor only, but also a diviner 
( isanusi ), and can foretell events out of his head alone. 
She says that you are not to trouble yourselves to find him: 
he will come to you of his own accord, for he will divine 
where you are. All that the woman witch-doctor did she 
did by medicines alone, but he who is coming will do 
some of the work in his head. He will see danger when 
it is far away, so that you may have time to avoid it. 
He hears of wars long before they are fought or even 
thought of, and he can foretell who will conquer, and 
the result is as he has foretold. Your witch-doctor said, 
"Have patience and fear not. All will yet be well".' 

When Nandi and her son heard this they tried to be 


LORD OF THE DEEP WATERS 31 

patient, for they had been in great dread. They tried to 
think that perhaps all would yet be well, if only the new 
witch-doctor did not delay too long until the trouble was 
upon them. 

About this time Chaka was given a very bad name, and 
those whom he had overcome in fight slandered him 
continually. Some said that he had been doctored by a 
'tikoloshi', and that that was why he could wield his 
spear so well and never run away. Others said he was the 
child of a tikoloshi, and that it was for this reason his 
father had driven him and his mother away and had 
showed her no mercy, although he had married her with 
so many cattle. It became rumoured that Chaka was not 
like other men, since the months of his mother's preg¬ 
nancy (said those who knew) were not as many as those 
of other women. In saying this they were seeking all the 
time some way of killing Chaka so that Dingiswayo might 
not be able to tell how he had been killed, but would 
think that his death was due to disease or a wild animal. 
For the fame of Chaka had spread abroad and reached 
Dingiswayo, and he was filled with a great desire to see 
him, and not only to see him but to enrol him among his 
regiments. 


Chapter Five 

CHAKA'S FLIGHT FROM HOME 

I N these days of long ago people were much troubled 
by wild beasts. In the evening, when they were sitting 
together or had gone to their huts, a hyena would enter 
the village, and, if there were no goats for it to eat, would 
seize a man and go off with him. And no one would 
pursue it or go to the rescue. And the victim, as he was 
being carried off, would cry out in the darkness, Tt carries 
me. It has put me down. It carries me again. Now it is 
going to eat me'. These cries were to warn the man's 
friends and let them know where he was so that they 
might start to pursue. But in the midst of his shouting he 
would be eaten, and none would come to his rescue. Often 
people like Chaka who had none to care for them would 
be put near the entrance to the hut so that they might be 
the ones to be taken by the hyena and the others might 
escape. It was so in Chaka's own case. He was made to 
sleep near the door of the hut so that he might be the most 
exposed to the perils of the night or of sorcery: he was a 
barrier to shield the rest from harm. None the less, 
disaster passed him by. The hyena would only smell at 
him and then move on into the centre of the hut and take 
some one from there. It seemed that now the hyena would 
never take the one by the entrance, as if it knew him to be 
hated by the others. 

Two or three times Chaka's hands were tied, and he was 
made to sleep outside the circle and near the entrance, 
bound in this way, so that the hyena might see him as 
soon as it came in. It would happen on days when a 
hyena had been seen near the village and was expected to 
come and take its victim at nightfall. But on those nights 
the hyena devoured goats and did not molest human 


CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 33 

beings. Truly the childhood of Chaka was full of hard¬ 
ships. 

Even in Basutoland hyenas were known to eat human 
beings, for we hear of a wife of Moshoeshoe who was 
taken from a village when there were people there. As 
she was carried away and was actually in the hyena's 
mouth, she raised those well-known distressing cries, and 
they were heard by Moshoeshoe and his warriors, the 
men of Mohale the son of Makoa and Makoanyane and 
Mokolokolo the son of Thesele; but they were all afraid to 
go out. They said it was a man-eating hyena, a werewolf. 

Once a hyena entered a hut where men were sleeping 
in Qube at dead of night, and Mfokazana was there with 
his young men. When it entered it remained absolutely 
still. They were all almost dead with fright, for hyenas 
were feared more than we can possibly imagine, and even 
brave men feared them. It entered, sniffed at one man 
and passed on; sniffed at another and passed on; sniffed 
at a third (a girl) and seized her and went off with her. 
Now the one it had taken was a lover of Mfokazana's. 
All the others pretended to be dead and kept very still, 
and Mfokazana did the same out of sheer terror and not in 
pretence, though he knew quite well who had been taken. 

When the hyena was outside the hut the girl gave forth 
piercing heart-rending screams which woke the crowds of 
people who were fast asleep in the village, and she began 
to sing the chant of a hyena's victim: 'It carries me. It 
has put me down.' Such were the cries of the poor girl, 
and then she was suddenly silent. But her pitiful cry had 
been heard throughout the village, and went travelling 
through the darkness of the night into the bush and the 
villages near by, and the people of those villages knew for 
certain that there had been an attack by a hyena, and they 
wrapt themselves round in their blankets, thinking that 


D 


34 CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 

perchance the hyena might wish to devour many people 
that night. 

Yes, the hyena was feared. Men trembled when they 
heard its praise song: 

'Thou hyena, beast of the mighty shoulders. 

Elder brother of the lion and the leopard. 

Child of the brindled hide: 

Thou hyena, thou child that gambols. 

Thou hunter by night. 

Why dost thou fear to gambol by day ?' 

T fear because of the sins I have committed among the 

herds of the people.' 

This night Chaka was sleeping in a separate outhouse 
with a few others. He had left his companions because 
they persecuted him and because he saw that their hatred 
was such that there was a danger of their killing him when 
he was asleep. He heard the girl's cry in his sleep, and the 
second time he heard it plainly and recognized her voice. 
He was suddenly wide-awake, and roused all who were 
sleeping with him and said, 'Vukani madoda, intombi 
yemuka nencuka' ('rise up, young men, the hyena has 
taken a girl'). Then he rushed out of the hut. 

Because of her weight, for she was fully grown, the 
hyena was often compelled to rest, and so had not yet left 
the village with her. When Chaka came out he stood and 
listened to hear in what direction was the voice, and as he 
stood there it rang out clearly, 'It has put me down'. 
Then the brave boy set to work, going on tiptoe so as not 
to make a noise, and when the young girl cried a second 
time, 'It carries me', he came upon the hyena and the girl 
in its mouth. Now he ran fast for he knew that the hyena 
would not hear his footsteps (for its ears were lying flat 
and closed because of the burden it was carrying) so that 


CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 35 

he might teach it before it rested again. He reached it and 
struck it while its short ears were still laid flat as before. 
His strong hand struck it under the shoulder-blade, and 
the spear sank in and came out the other side, and threw 
the hyena to the ground and pinned it there. The animal 
sank to the ground and let go its victim. It lay flat and 
gave two or three kicks before it died. Now it was dead, 
silent and still: it gave no cry or howl at all. Chaka spoke 
one word only, 'nantso', and then was silent. He slowly 
drew forth his spear as a man does when he has killed a 
wild animal. 

The girl's eyes were clouded, and she could not see 
clearly and did not even know where the hyena was 
taking her. When it sank to the ground she thought that 
perhaps it was resting. When she felt that she was no 
longer held she jumped up and looked round, but she 
still could not see clearly. The first thing she saw was a 
very tall man standing between her and the hyena, but 
her sight was dim and she could not see well, and she 
thought perhaps the werewolf had now brought her to 
its masters and she was going to be eaten. She cried, 
'Help, help', a far more heart-rending cry than any she had 
yet uttered, the cry of a dying woman when all hope of 
escape has passed and death looks her in the face close at 
hand. When she cried in this way the people were sitting 
trembling in their huts, the young men were dead with 
fright, and the most useless of all was Mfokazana. 

The girl gave forth her pitiful cry and fell to the ground 
in terror. Chaka took her by the hand and raised her up 
and reassured her: 'Thou hast escaped, be silent, rejoice. 
There is the hyena, it is dead. Rise up and see it. It is I, 
Chaka.' The girl heard his words without understanding 
them. Chaka repeated them, and this time she understood 
and recognized his voice. She looked him in the eyes and 


d 2 


36 CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 

saw that it was Chaka himself. She looked at the hyena 
and saw that it was lying on the ground. She looked in 
every direction and now her sight was clear, and she saw 
the huts of her village and the kraals still there. She 
looked at the hyena again and saw that it was lying quiet 
on the ground, dead, quite dead. And Chaka again re¬ 
assured her and bade her take courage, for she had escaped. 

Her senses now came back to her. The sting of death 
and the terror of it were passed; she experienced again 
the joy of life, the blessing and happiness of being alive. 
She cried out, 'Help, help, help,' and clung to Chaka and 
clasped him and kissed him again and again, saying, T 
knew that there was none but thee, Chaka, who could 
rescue the dead who have no hope, Mfokazana abandoned 
me when we were side by side alone in the hut.' Then 
she darted away from him and rushed through the village, 
shouting out for all the people to awake and come and see 
and hear the miracle that Chaka had performed in rescuing 
her from death out of the jaws of the hyena. 

The people were bewildered with joy, but their joy was 
mixed with shame. They asked themselves in astonish¬ 
ment what would be the end of Chaka. Whither would 
his prowess and manliness lead him? The young men 
also asked themselves the question in sorrow and shame. 
Where would the disgrace brought upon them by Chaka 
end? It was becoming worse and worse. Two days 
before he had killed a Hon and they had fled, and now he 
had kiUed a hyena that had taken one of their number, and 
no one else had gone to the rescue. The companions of 
the girl who had been taken by the hyena at once came 
out of their hut to go and see their friend who had come 
back from the grave, and to see also her brave defender 
and the wild beast that had been killed, the hyena on 
whose account they had not been able to eat their food in 


CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 37 

peace. They went also to sing songs extolling Chaka and 
ridiculing Mfokazana. 

As soon as Mfokazana heard what had happened he 
came out of his hut and started on the road to his home 
at Nobamba. But he saw that it was of no avail to go 
there, for they would hear the news before day-break and 
he would be all the more disgraced, for it would be said 
that shame had made him run away. At once, therefore, he 
determined to murder Chaka to spite those who praised 
him, and make them change their song of praise to a 
lament. 'Again and again,' he said, T have borne ridicule 
because of this son of Nandi, this dog. To-day I must 
remove him out of my path.' 

Men were already running to Senzangakona as quickly 
as possible with the tidings. And some young men, 
companions of Dingana, rose up at once to go to Qube. 
And at the time when Mfokazana reached the place where 
the hyena had been killed, people were already gathered 
there in great numbers. Chaka was seated on the animal 
he had killed, softly wiping the blood from the handle of 
his spear and not saying a word. For his acts proclaimed 
him and the shouts of the people. And now the girl was 
really weeping, for she had just begun to see the terrible 
nature of the death from which she had been rescued, and 
to realize that she was the first who had ever escaped from 
the jaws of a hyena, that fearsome monster. 

When Mfokazana arrived he struck Chaka on the head 
so that he fell forward on to his face. Chaka got up, seized 
his spear and stick, and thrust his way out of the crowd and 
then turned round. And as he turned he met Mfokazana 
who had been following him. 

As soon as they saw each other Chaka struck Mfoka¬ 
zana on the head and caused him to fall. Mfokazana's 
friends and companions arrived, but Chaka fought man- 


3 8 CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 

fully. With his stick he broke open the skull of one of the 
young men, and his brains poured out so that he died 
belching them forth like a man who has drunk too much 
'joalak And then Chaka, with the upward stroke of his 
stick, cut open the chin of another of the men and clove 
his jaw in two, so that his tongue was left hanging: the 
man died in great pain. Then, striking out to the side, 
Chaka gave another man a blow between the eye and the 
ear, and his eye came away from its socket and fell on the 
ground—a great lump, like a sheep's eye. And now the 
last of Chaka's adversaries, although his companions were 
all on the ground, took up the fight and advanced crouch¬ 
ing. He was trying to get to the back of Chaka, but while 
he was doing this he stumbled and fell towards him. 
Chaka moved a little to one side, and as the man was pass¬ 
ing him he struck him on the head and he fell on the 
ground on his face and died with his teeth biting the dust 
and a mortal wound in his head. Then Chaka had a chance 
to take breath, and seated himself again on the wild beast 
he had killed. And Mfokazana wandered about like a 
sheep that has had its throat cut, with blood pouring 
from his jaw and nose and ears: it did not seem that he 
could live. 

When Dingana arrived and heard the tidings and saw 
Mfokazana on the ground, he at once attacked Chaka, for 
he thought that he must be tired. He knew that great 
glory would come to him if he killed Chaka, the bravest 
of the brave, and above all he realized that the chieftain¬ 
ship would be his when Mfokazana and Chaka were both 
dead. A few of the men of Qube stood by Chaka, and the 
fight began and many blows were exchanged. After a 
while the brother of the girl who had been carried off by 
the hyena, gave Dingana a severe wound which caused 
him much loss of blood, so that he became weak and sank 


CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 39 

to the ground. At that moment the night came to an end 
and it was day, and Senzangakona arrived with his wives. 

The men who told Senzangakona about the killing of 
the hyena only said, 'Your son killed it', and it was reported 
that Mfokazana was meant, and that was why the wives 
came too. When they arrived the fighting had ended, and 
they saw Chaka sitting on top of the hyena, which showed 
quite clearly that it was he who was the hero. They cast 
their eyes on all sides and saw Mfokazana and Dingana 
and others lying face downwards on the ground, and 
everywhere blood. They gave hoarse cries when they 
saw the dead hyena, and perceived that their children were 
dead as well, and that they had been killed by the son of 
Nandi. They demanded angrily that Chaka should be 
killed, and Senzangakona gave orders to all his men and 
the men of Qube, saying, 'Kill him'. And now we see, if 
we have not seen it before, that Chaka was indeed the 
hare whose ears are struck, an orphan, a buffalo standing 
alone; for all who saw him attacked him without any 
reason at all. 

A few men of Qube and some young men who were 
there, gave themselves up to die with Chaka. Nandi's 
women companions sang a pitiful song, a song of death, 
they sang it weeping with tears pouring down their 
cheeks. 

'Alas, alas. Ye spirits think of us. 

Look upon us being killed in this way while ye are absent. 
Alas, alas. The spirits are our witnesses, they are the 

witnesses of what happened in the fields. 

Alas. Our Chief is without truth. 

He is without truth, a chameleon. 

But we have borne him a man child, 

A man child and a conqueror of the mighty. 


40 CHAKAS' FLIGHT FROM HOME 

Alas, Senzangakona fears where he should love 
And loves where he should despise. 

The fight began. A lust to kill sprang up in Chaka when he 
heard his father order him to be murdered, and he fought 
now as if there was nothing he would not do, nothing 
was to be sacred to him, for he thought his father would 
have asked who was to blame. But when he heard the 
bare order, he defended himself with all his might. Up 
till then he had been fighting with his stick only, but now 
he began to use his spear. 

In the fight his spear broke, and shortly after his stick 
as well. He leapt to one side to see where he could procure 
more weapons and found that he was quite alone—all 
who were on his side were lying on the ground. When he 
leapt to one side his enemies rushed at him in a body, and 
now he fled. And this was not a flight from the spear only, 
but was a flight to lose himself on the veld where he would 
never be seen again and never come back. He fled and 
went into the bush and hid there. 

When Dingiswayo heard of it he fined Senzangakona 
some cattle, saying that he was teaching his warriors to 
be cowards. He told him to find Chaka quickly and send 
him to him alive, and not dead. 

In this chapter we have seen that the fruit of sin is 
wondrous bitter, for we know that Chaka had not been 
to blame for what had happened, but none the less, his 
father had ordered him to be killed. The great crime 
which started everything was the sin of Nandi and Se¬ 
nzangakona; and Senzangakona fearing that what he had 
done might become known, had determined to kill his 
son. But if Senzangakona had not committed this shame¬ 
ful act in his youth, Chaka would have lived at his home 
in Nobamba, the beloved darling of his father. 


Chapter Six 

CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 


r midday when Chaka was still in the bush, a pitiful 



TA wailing rose up from Qube's village. Chaka saw 
crowds of people, both men and women, moving about, 
together with people from neighbouring villages, who had 
been summoned by the shrieking which they had heard 
in the night when the hyena had gone off with the girl; 
they had been summoned, too, by the second event which 
had happened before that night had ended. The wailing 
which Chaka heard came from wives weeping for their 
husbands, and from others weeping for their brothers 
and their betrothed. All these were weeping only for their 
dead and took no thought for Senzangakona, but others 
were mourning for Chaka, thinking that his father must 
have been bewitched by some one who hated him bitterly, 
since he had cast out his own son without reason and 
without cause. 

At midday the cattle and the goats in the kraals cried 
out for lack of food. The calves and the kids also 
cried for the milk of their mothers, and the dogs, too, 
howled through the village for their dead masters. Even 
the cocks helped to swell the din, but these were only 
imitating the other sounds. The combined noise of all 
these animals became unbearable: everything was upside 
down and in disorder, as when the great chief of a tribe 
dies; for when the queen-bee is dead even the animals 
know of it. 

Chaka heard the cries of all these creatures, and longing 
as he did for the chieftainship he thought to himself, 'All 
this has happened because of me, and I am only small and 
weak. What will it be when I am a man and have the 


42 CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 

power of a chief? I will have my revenge when my day 

dawns.' 

In his mind he reviewed all his life since his childhood, 
and he found that it was evil, terrifying, fearsome. He 
thought of the time when he was herding the cattle and 
discovered that there was a plot against him, of how the 
boys attacked him in the fields, of his killing of the lion 
and the hyena, and he saw that on earth man lives by 
might and not by right. He saw that on earth the wise 
man, the strong man, the man who is admired and 
respected is the man who knows how to wield his spear, 
who, when people try to hinder him, setdes the matter 
with his club. He resolved that from that time on he 
would do as he liked: whether a man was guilty or not he 
would kill him if he wished, for that was the law of man. 

Chaka was always a man of fixed purpose, and was 
never in the habit of abandoning anything until he had 
brought it to an end in accordance with his wishes, how¬ 
ever difficult it was. But until now his purposes had been 
good. Henceforth he had only one purpose—to do as he 
liked, even if it was wrong, and to take the most complete 
vengeance that he alone could imagine. 

When evening came he left the bush and wandered over 
the country, not knowing where he was going. He crossed 
the Umhlatuza, the Tukela, and the Umvoti rivers, keep¬ 
ing always to the south, and in his flight he forgot 
Dingiswayo, the chief who loved him. 

A few days later at midday, at the time when the shadows 
begin to grow small under their owners, he felt oppressed 
with the heat of the sun: the sweat poured down him, the 
ground burnt his feet, and he was obliged to look for some 
shade. There w r ere many trees there but they were very 
scattered, and as he was looking around he saw one in front 
of him with broad branches, standing alone and far from 


CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 43 

the others, and he went up to it. It was a very tall tree, and 
from the ground to above where a man could reach with 
his hand, the trunk was smooth and without branches. 
The first branches began above this and bent downwards 
to the ground in streamers like a willow; the upper 
branches spread out flat like a man's hand and made a 
broad shade. At the foot of the tree was a spring of cool 
refreshing water. Chaka was tired out when he reached 
it: his strength had gone because of his exertions and 
privations, his feet were swollen with the dew, his thoughts 
were confused and his head ached with much thinking. 
He drank at the spring and then ate a little of the meat 
which he had procured in the villages he had passed 
through, and washed it down with the spring water. 
Owing to his weariness he was beginning to doze, but he 
rose to his feet and looked carefully in all directions; then 
he glanced into the branches of the tree and threw a stone 
up into them. When he saw that there was nothing about 
anywhere, he rested against the tree and fell asleep. 

He woke when the shadows were lengthening, and saw 
a witch-doctor standing by his side, regarding him with a 
strange expression. Chaka the man of action immediately 
became wide awake: he seized his spear, leapt back and 
stood away from the witch-doctor, for he was afraid that 
he had been nearly killed in his sleep. But he soon 
realized that this was no assassin, because the man must 
have been there some time before he woke, and could 
have killed him then had he wished. When sleep first left 
Chaka and his eyes lighted on the man he saw a mocking 
look on his face; his mouth was drawn down in a grimace, 
and in the depths of his eyes he could see unbounded 
malice and cruelty. He seemed to see a man far more evil 
than any sorcerer, more cruel by far than any murderer—¦ 
the very father of malice, wickedness, and treachery. 


44 CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 

Chaka's body shuddered and his eyes quivered. When he 
looked again he found the man's face full of pity and 
compassion and very sorrowful. And when he looked 
into the depths of his eyes he saw there perfect kind¬ 
ness, a sympathetic heart, and the truest love. The expres¬ 
sion on his face which he had seen before had vanished 
entirely. 

He was a man of middle age, beginning to turn grey, 
and Chaka saw at once by the medicine bags, the skunk's 
claws, the monkey skin, and the long plaits of hair that he 
was a witch-doctor. While Chaka stood there on his 
guard the witch-doctor put down his burden, sat down, 
took out his nose-spoon, cleared his nose, and then put 
the spoon back; took out his gourd of snuff, shook out a 
little and took it into his nose—sniff, sniff; then, finally, he 
spoke in a voice sweetened with the delicious flavour of 
the snuff, saying, 'Good morrow to thee of the chief's 
village. Come hither and let us hold converse.' As he 
spoke his voice issued forth with a satisfying sound, full 
of truth. There could be no doubt it came from a heart 
which knew no guile; it was not the voice of a deceiver, 
but of an honest man. Chaka drew near to him, saying, 
'Good morrow to thee, too, but I come not from 
the chief's village, I come from a little village. I am a 
subject of those who are subjects of the chief.' The witch¬ 
doctor laughed softly and said, 'It were strange if thou 
wert not of the chief's village, for thy form and thy speech 
tell that thou art. Moreover, thou art not a man of these 
parts.' 'How canst thou see that I am not a man of these 
parts, since thou didst find me here?' 

T can see it by many things. I can see by thy feet that 
thou hast travelled a long way, and that most of thy 
journey was performed running. I can see from thy brow 
that for many days thou hast not slept soundly, and that 


CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 45 

thou goest on thy way with a heart full of grief. Thy tired 
eyes tell me that for as many days as a man can count on 
one hand thou hast not had sufficient food. Tell the truth. 
Is it not so?' 

Chaka was loth to answer, for he was afraid that the 
man had been following him. 'All that thou sayest is 
indeed so. Whence dost thou come and whither dost thou 
go? Where is thy home and how dost thou know my 
story ?' 

'The way in which thou speakest tells me that not only 
art thou of the chief's village, thou art the son of the chief. 
I will answer thy questions when I have ended my story. 
As I listened to thee I regarded thee with care, and I saw 
that thy right hand was wearied out with killing men, and 
that thou wast in flight. For that cause when thou didst 
see me thou didst leap up, because thou art afraid of all 
men. Further, thy manner of speaking tells me that thine 
upbringing has been hard. Is it not so ?' And now Chaka 
was unable to answer for astonishment, and the witch¬ 
doctor said, 'Look me full in the eyes while I speak with 
thee.' They looked each other in the eyes. 'What drove 
thee here happened at night. Thou didst fight with a wild 
beast and kill it, and the wild beast was a hyena. I see that 
it is so by the hair that has remained on thy blanket. 
Some days before thou hadst killed another wild beast. 
Lo! I see it. Thou art disowned by thy father who is 
afraid of his women. To-day thou hast escaped from a 
great danger, for thou wast marked for death.' 

When the witch-doctor had finished speaking Chaka 
drew aside his blanket, letting his belly appear and the 
scars upon it of his inoculation, and the witch-doctor saw 
them. Again Chaka asked the questions he had asked before, 
and the witch-doctor said, 'It is human for thee to think 
I have heard thy story from another, but it is not so. But 


46 CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 

to satisfy thee I will tell thee a small matter that is known 
to thee alone. On the hair of thy forelock there is 
medicine, and it is to bring good luck and the chieftain¬ 
ship. When thou didst draw aside thy blanket I saw, I 
who have the gift of vision and perception, I the wise one, 
that thou hast been visited by a great chief coming from 
the dead, from those who are on high, and that chief 
rejoices in thee. Further, my eyes which can see the past, 
have seen that thou wast sore afraid when the chief was 
with thee, so that thou didst keep thy hand clasping this 
lock of hair as thou wast commanded by the woman 
witch-doctor who is now no more.' 

The reader can imagine Chaka's astonishment when 
secrets were wrested from him that were known to him 
alone, and at this point he leapt in the air for joy, and was 
like a man who dreams. He rejoiced that this light which 
had come from afar had dawned upon him; a sudden ray 
of it had fallen on his heart and lit it up. Joy and delight 
came then to him for the first time and soothed his 
wounded spirit. He thought that this man must doubt¬ 
less be the diviner of whose coming he had been told, 
and he saw and believed that if it was really he his fortunes 
would change, for it was clear that this man could indeed 
divine out of his head. Then he again asked the question 
which he had asked twice or thrice before, and said, T 
asked thee a question, but I perceive that maybe thou dost 
not wish to answer it. Whence comest thou and whither 
dost thou go ?' 

The witch-doctor took his stick and pointed to the sky 
above and said, 'Ngivela kudele' (T come from far away'). 
And he was silent for a long while, looking upwards to 
the sky where he had pointed, and then he sighed. Chaka 
said, 'What meanest thou by pointing upwards yonder? 
Dost thou come from the clouds?' 'Nay, by pointing 


CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 47 

upwards yonder I would show to thee the distance I have 
come, for if I pointed to those mountains or were to say, 
I came from far beyond them, thou wouldst not be able 
to understand how far it is that I have come.' Chaka's 
brow cleared and his face lit up, for he remembered 
how it had been said that a witch-doctor would come 
from far, far away. And he went on with his questioning. 
'At this moment whither goest thou? Thou hast not 
answered all my questions.' 

'At this moment I am going ... I am going .. . Give 
heed, Chaka'—and now he called him by his name so that 
he might perceive that the man with whom he was speak¬ 
ing knew him through and through—'Give heed, Chaka, 
I have not space to speak with thee on trifles, for there 
are many lands in front of me and broad expanses which 
I must traverse. Many are distressed and persecuted and 
cannot attain their hearts' desires. Many chiefs wait for 
me to arrive and give them aid, the fullest aid, and I wish 
soon to return to my home, and my home is far.' And 
again the witch-doctor was silent for a while as he gazed 
upward into the sky where he had pointed before, and then 
he said: T have told thee thy story which is known to thee 
alone, and if thou dost not yet know me, or if thy thoughts 
have changed, thou must tell me, so that I may pass on 
and go to those who await me.' 

When Chaka heard these words he was nearly mad with 
joy and said, 'Art thou he who is to end my... ' His voice 
trembled and he could not speak, for his heart was full, for 
he saw that there in the wilds, in the desert, in his abandon¬ 
ment, he had met with him whom he had long given up 
for lost—the man by whom all promises were to be 
fulfilled. While these thoughts were passing through 
Chaka's mind the witch-doctor gazed fixedly at him and 
strove to penetrate his heart and read his deepest secrets. 


48 CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 

And for answer he only shook his head; but when he saw 
his distress he said, 'Doubt no more. I am here.' The 
tone in which he said these words showed that a real man 
was speaking, one who had the power to do as he had 
promised. Chaka was convinced and satisfied, and all his 
doubts fled away. He felt the heavy weight pressing on 
his heart to be removed and fall to the ground, and he 
was lightened. He felt, too, as if some ray of light had 
settled on the place where the burden had been on his 
heart, and he saw clearly that the chieftainship was for him 
—he had obtained it to-day, and it would never escape 
him now that he had it. 

Then the witch-doctor said, 'First, before we go further 
in the matter, I would ask thee if thou wilt bind thyself 
to observe all my commandments to the full? I ask it 
because there is nothing I can do unless thou bind thyself 
in this way.' It is the rule in cases like this or in prescrib¬ 
ing medicines for sterility or disease that the witch-doctor 
should insist that his patient undertake to carry out his 
orders, although, if he thinks what he commands is too 
difficult, he can still refuse. The rule is thus, because if the 
patient leaves without having definitely refused to obey, 
the witch-doctor can claim his fee even if his services have 
been of no avail. 

Chaka replied, T bind myself to observe whatsoever 
commandments thou mayest give.' 

'My commandments and my laws are hard, but since 
thou desirest the chieftainship, which is a hard thing, it 
is clear that the gaining of it must be hard and difficult, 
and must demand the greatest sacrifices.' Again Chaka 
swore that if any man could perform them he would, 
however difficult they might be. Then the witch-doctor 
said: 'It is well. I have told thee that thou shouldst take 
heart, for I am here. And now I say that all thy troubles 


CHAKA MEETS ISANUSI 49 

and persecutions are a thing that is past, and the good 
fortune thou vast promised in thy youth will begin from 
to-day; thou shalt prosper in all thy acts. Now tell me 
the desires of thy heart and what thou dost wish most of all 
that I should lay my wand upon.' 

'I have not many desires, but my heart longs for the 
chieftainship to which I was born and which is escaping 
me through my ill fortune alone. I bid thee, work upon 
me so that the chieftainship may return to me.' 

'I understand thee. Thou desirest only the chieftain¬ 
ship of thy father; beyond that thou desirest naught. A 
chieftainship greater than that of thy father thou dost not 
desire. Is that thy request or do I err ?' 

'Nay, that is what I desire. But if thou canst make me 
a mighty chief and independent, one to whom the smaller 
chiefs would do homage, great will be my gratitude. But, 
my witch-doctor, tell me truly what thou canst do. For 
often ye doctors promise men wonders that ye know well 
ye will not be able to perform.' 

'Trust in me, I will not deceive thee. Thou hast, I think, 
some knowledge of man's life on earth, the injustice and 
the quarrelling, the hatred and the violence. And from 
to-day thou must put away from thee all mercy and com¬ 
passion, for he who shows these qualities is lost. I will 
not stay long with thee. I will work upon thee and then 
I will go my way, and thou must remain behind and win 
for thyself the chieftainship thou desirest. 


E 


Chapter Seven 

ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 


HEN Chaka had given his full consent the witch- 



v v doctor began his work. First, he cut Chaka's fore¬ 
lock where he had been inoculated, saying that he did it 
because Chaka was as yet too weak to receive the potent 
medicines of chieftainship. He then inoculated him on 
the chest, and rubbed in the medicines with his eyes shut, 
saying all the while: 'Ye spirits of all who have gone 
before, of all who departed from the earth before their 
time, greet him, receive him, bring him all good fortune 
such as those others have obtained, and let it lie upon 
him as the dew lies upon the ground. In his wake let 
there be a downpour of rain, making the land muddy 
and marshy. Let his enemies all scatter before him when 
he appears, as the morning mist is dried up and scattered 
when the sun rises.' 

When he had made an end he washed the medicine in 
the water and then clapped his hands together, pointing 
them at the spot on which Chaka had been inoculated. 
And when the drops of water reached Chaka's scars his 
whole body quivered and became numb, and his scars 
swelled and increased; but when the witch-doctor ceased 
the scars subsided and returned to their former state. 
The doctor said that this was a true medicine to bring 
good fortune, and that Chaka would never again be inocu¬ 
lated with another of that kind. 

The second thing the witch-doctor did was to pierce 
Chaka's forehead just where the hair began, and to lift up 
the skin. Then he inserted a medicine made of a little 
powder mixed with part of a crocodile's brains. While he 
did this hurriedly his eyes were staring; he said that this 
was the medicine of chieftainship, that all who saw Chaka 


ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 51 

would tremble and kneel before him, and when he was 
angry the timid w r ould die of fright. His commands 
would be heard, and if any were slow to fulfil them others 
would tear them to pieces with never a word from Chaka. 
None would be able to meet his gaze in war. The witch¬ 
doctor said he had not the remaining medicine with him; 
it was one that caused bloodshed and murder. 'It is very 
evil, but of great power. Choose.' He left all to Chaka's 
will, but he told him that the medicine was indeed evil, 
and did not disguise it. Then he stood to one side so that 
Chaka might do as he wished. 

T desire it,' said Chaka. And now the decision had 
been made: of his own free will Chaka had chosen death 
in place of life. 

When Chaka spoke the witch-doctor gazed at him in 
silence, and then said, 'So be it. Let us go and seek it.' 

There was a certain tree in those days in Kafirland 
standing alone on the veld, deserted. It was said that if 
any one wished to cut it he must prepare himself with 
medicines immediately before going to the tree, for if he 
tried to cut it without having prepared himself he would 
perish instantly. It was said that when a man struck it, it 
cried out like a young kid, and its sap was like blood. 
When a man cut it he had to be stripped and naked. It 
was an enchanted tree, for if a man did but put a branch of 
it on the windward side of a house, all the inhabitants of 
that house died. And it was kept on the open veld like 
certain other dangerous medicines. Report went that if 
any part of this tree was cut away it dried up at once; life- 
giving power went out of it with the medicine that had 
been taken from it. 

With the medicine of this tree the witch-doctor 
inoculated Chaka's right hand, mingling it with other 
medicines and with snake poison. He made two cuts in 


J 2 ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 

the flesh above the hand in a line with the long middle 
finger, two on the knuckles, and two on the thumb. He 
did the same with the left hand, except that he made no 
cuts: he only pretended to use his knife and rubbed the 
medicine in instead. And when the medicine reached 
the spot where the witch-doctor had pretended to use his 
knife, the pain was terrible, piercing, so that Chaka shed 
tears. The witch-doctor worked the remaining medicine 
into a paste and gave it to Chaka, saying that whenever he 
came back from the river he should anoint himself with 
it as with fat, and should rub it well into the scars. 

And last of all the witch-doctor found a tree far away 
on the sea-shore and cut two branches from it. With the 
first he made a club for Chaka, scraping out the pith for 
a short way above the stump of the stick and inserting 
that evil medicine instead. With the second he made a 
spear having a short handle so that it could not be thrown, 
again inserting that fearsome medicine in a hole at its 
end. And then he scorched the spear for Chaka in the 
fire. And even when he had finished he again anointed 
the handle of the spear with the medicine where the handle 
joins the blade, and then put on the piece of skin that 
fastens the two together. The colour of that tree when it 
was peeled was very beautiful: it was brown and shining, 
and when the light fell upon it, it appeared wet, and 
glistened. 

When all was at an end they retraced their steps 
towards Dingiswayo's village, and on the way the witch¬ 
doctor urged Chaka to obey Dingiswayo with a true 
obedience and to work for him with joy, for it was through 
him that he would win the chieftainship he sought. He 
also said he would not come often to Chaka for he had 
much else to do. 'But if aught should occur and thou 
dost need me at once, when thou goest to the river on 


ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 53 

thy day, do thou anoint thyself with the medicine I gave 
thee and then enter the water, and I shall hear and know 
that I am required. But if thou dost wish me to hasten to 
thee when thy time is still afar off, do thou go to the river 
on the morning before thy day or at any time when danger 
doth appear. Thou must draw a reed from the river 
and peel it, and then enter the water and bathe; and when 
thou hast finished bathing thou must anoint the reed with 
this same medicine and plant it in the water. And then 
thou must call upon me in a whisper, softly, speaking the 
name "Isanusi" into the midst of the reed, and then thou 
must cast the reed into the midst of the water. All this 
thou must do having thine eyes shut. I will hear and will 
know that I am needed at once. And if thine enemies press 
thee hard in war and thou seest that death is at hand, do 
thou with the end of thy spear, where the medicine is, strike 
thy forehead where I pierced thee with the medicine: let 
medicine strike on medicine; and do thou say "Isanusi". 
Help shall come to thee in the twinkling of an eye; thine 
enemies shall flee when they hear that word.' 

'Witch-doctor, we have been many days together and 
we have thought of one thing only, but thou hast not yet 
told me thy name. Who art thou ?' 

'Neither hast thou told me thine; I found it for myself 
by my wisdom. When thou callest on me thou shalt say 
"Isanusi".' 

'But "Isanusi" is not thy name: it tells me only what 
thou art (diviner), but I ask thy name.' 

' 'Tis true, but "Isanusi" is my name, even as my acts 
are the acts of an "Isanusi".' 

T thought to ask thee, Isanusi, how many days wilt 
thou take to come after I have called thee ?' 

'It will be according to where I am when thou dost call 
me. If I am close at hand I will come quickly, but if I am 


54 ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 

far away it is clear that I shall tarry a little. But fear not 
that I shall tarry overmuch, that perchance thou wilt be 
in peril: fear not at all for that. Further, if I am delayed I 
will send one of my companions to thee, for it is my 
intention that when thou hast taken to thyself the chief¬ 
tainship, one of them shall come and abide with thee and 
watch over thee for me.' 

'But witch-doctor, thy name . . .' 

'Thou shalt not say "witch-doctor" when thou speakest 
with me, but "Isanusi". Take heed that thou call not upon 
me as "witch-doctor" for then I should not hear thy call.' 

'But thou art a witch-doctor, art thou not?' 

T am, but my name is "Isanusi". That is the name I 
use when I speak with the dead, and they know me by it.' 

T thought to ask thee, Isanusi, will thy companions 
know where I am ?' 

'They will.' 

'How ?' 

'How was it that I knew? In the way that I knew 
they will know. I wish thee to know this clearly: the 
great chief who visited thee in the river is a man of war. 
If thou dost not spill blood he will take no pleasure in 
thee. The medicine with which I inoculated thee is a 
medicine of blood. If thou dost not spill much blood it 
will turn its potency against thee and compass thy death. 
Thy work is to kill without mercy, fashioning thyself a 
road to thy glorious chieftainship.' 

'And then, witch-doctor . . .' 

'Thou shalt not call me witch-doctor, but Isanusi.' 

'When I said "and then", Isanusi, I meant that thou 
need have no fear for me, for different altogether from 
in former time have been my thoughts to-day. I see now 
clearly what is man's life on earth, and I will cause it to 
be such that men will learn to live rightly. If only my 


ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 55 

spear had not been broken when they fought against me 
at my home I should have won for myself fame, and the 
name of Chaka only would have been remembered in the 
years to come; the old men would have told their grand¬ 
children of how I fought and conquered the people, 
though I was but one, and the young men would have 
been bidden to fight "like Chaka". My name would 
have been remembered for ever, long after I had changed 
to dust in the grave. Oh, my spear will vex the people.' 

'I see thou dost not desire the chieftainship alone; thou 
longest for fame also stretching to the ends of the earth, 
such fame that when thy deeds are spoken of they will 
sound like fables. This fame thou dost crave for as for 
the chieftainship itself.' 

'Yea, fame is sweet. I would not be content if I were 
a great chief but without fame. And the fame I seek is 
fame in war, where spears are wielded, and big men with 
thick necks and mighty warriors perish. I desire that I 
myself may win my chieftainship that my fame may grow 
the more.' 

'Chaka, I tell thee that there is nothing that can over¬ 
come a man. If thou art a man thou wilt know how to use 
thy spear, and all will be according to thy desire. It is by 
the spear that men acquire cattle, it is the spear that 
bringeth fame, and by it chiefs rule, for he who knoweth 
not to use the spear he is ruled. The prudent cultivator 
is he who knows the seasons, who, when the right month 
has come, abandons the drinking of beer and feasting 
and rises early to go to his field, recking naught of the 
cold or the heat of the sun, but desiring only that the 
right time may not pass him by. If thou desirest the 
chieftainship and fame, be like unto him: cultivate them. 
Let thy spear be thy plough: do thou use it, and use it 
with understanding. Where it is needful thou must 


56 ISANUSI DOCTORS CHAKA 

crush and sweep clean, allowing no enemy to live and 
rise up against thee after. Root out the weeds from the 
field of thy chieftainship by war, and thy fame will grow. 
When thou comest to Dingiswayo thou wilt come to a 
land where the spear is all powerful and the warrior is 
esteemed. And my last command, Chaka, is to bid thee 
work manfully with thy spear, that when we meet again 
thou mayest tell me the great things thou hast done and 
whether thou hast found favour with Dingiswayo.' 

When they drew nigh to Dingiswayo's village they 
parted, for Isanusi said he did not wish to meet with 
Dingiswayo since they hated one another. 


Chapter 'Eight 

CHAKA COMES TO DINGISWAYO. HE KILLS A 

MADMAN 

THE WAR AGAINST ZWIDE'S COUNTRY 

ABOUT two months had now elapsed between the 
ZA. time when Chaka fled from his home and the time 
when he parted from Isanusi; that is to say, those who 
were mourning for him had already taken off their 
mourning, but Dingiswayo was still gathering together 
witch-doctors and diviners so that they might divine 
where Chaka was—a sign that he loved him dearly. 

When Chaka left his home in flight he left it as Chaka, 
a man like other men with the weaknesses of his kind. 
But now he was returning entirely changed. It was his 
body only that returned, his outward appearance; his 
inner nature he left in the place from which he had come. 
He returned with a different spirit and a different soul. 
Even before Chaka had been a man of extraordinary 
endurance. He persevered, however difficult a thing 
might be, until he finished it and fulfilled his heart's 
desire: nothing could stop him from carrying out his 
intentions. But he was still only a man, he was not 
quarrelsome, and did not know what it was to be the 
aggressor. But after seeing his own father's sons trying 
to kill him without a cause and his father himself taking 
their part, he had fled away, and when he was in the 
desert his inner nature died, and this was the spirit with 
which he now returned: T will kill without a cause him 
whom I wish to kill, be he guilty or be he innocent, for 
this is the law upon earth. I will hearken to the entreaties 
of none.' Truly Chaka returned with all spirit of humanity 
gone out of him. To kill was his sole aim, and he deter- 


58 CHAKA COMES TO DINGISWAYO 

mined to settle all disputes, all quarrels with his stick 
alone: he would kill the aggressor and the aggressed 
together. When he returned his thoughts were of war 
without end. He would kill both his enemies and his 
own people in a way that none would ever know. This 
terrible desire for revenge in his heart was nearly driving 
him demented. 

The sun was already descending towards the moun¬ 
tains and the shadows of the afternoon were lengthening 
out, the cattle were already in the open place of the village, 
and the women were returning from the springs when 
Chaka came to the entrance of the capital of Dingiswayo. 
When he came there he sat down on the ground that he 
might obtain rest and refreshment, and he heard people 
in the court chanting aloud in chorus, 'Siyavuma' (We 
agree'), while the witch-doctor in his divinations was telling 
how Chaka had disappeared from sight and would never 
be seen again for he had been done to death; for this was 
the conclusion to which all the witch-doctors had come. 
But one of the diviners confirmed his divination with an 
oath and swore by Dingiswayo, and said that Chaka was 
alive and would return to his chief one day. 

Chaka heard all this, and as he cast his eyes up to the 
village he saw a company of women coming from near the 
court, and among them his mother Nandi, looking very 
thin and weak like one who has been ill for many years. 
And when the sun sank beneath the ground he entered the 
village, entered it in haste, stepping lightly like a young 
man. He greeted the chief's guard, and in answer to 
their questions as to whence he came and whither he went 
he said that he came from far away in the south, and 
that he desired to see Dingiswayo and speak with him. 
They said he should tell them what it was he desired, and 
he said, 'Tell the chief that there is a vagabond here 


HE KILLS A MADMAN 59 

desiring to be received and protected by him. It is not 
a man; it is a hare that has escaped from the dogs. Those 
who see him kill him without cause and without waiting 
to speak to him. He has become a brother to the owl. 
But he is a man-child, his hand knows how to grasp 
weapons of war, and he can fight in the chief's battles. 
But if the chief fears what may befall because of me, let 
him tell me that I may hasten to pass on, for terrible are 
the dangers that pursue me'. 

Night had now fallen and it was impossible to see 
clearly. And Dingiswayo came to Chaka and said, 
'Whence comest thou, and whither goest thou? Where 
is thy home, and what thy name ?' 

'My lord, at this moment I come from wandering over 
the land fleeing from the spear. I come to thee to beg 
protection. My home is in the village of Senzangakona, 
and my name is Chaka.' There was silence in the court, 
not a sound could be heard, when Chaka began to speak. 
When he had finished all the men stood up and surrounded 
him with cries of joy when they heard that he was 
Chaka, the hero for whom their chief had long mourned. 
And one of those surrounding Chaka and Dingiswayo 
kept praising his divining bones which had found out 
Chaka, whispering and signing repeatedly to Dingiswayo 
that he alone had been right in saying that Chaka was 
alive and would return one day to his chief: and so it 
had come about. 

Dingiswayo, instead of answering Chaka, sent to the 
enclosure of the hut to fetch Nandi, the mother of Chaka. 
And when Nandi came he again asked him, saying, 
'Young man, whence dost thou say thou comest? And 
whither is it that thou goest ? Where is thy home and 
what is thy name?' 'My lord, at this moment I come 
from wandering over the land and fleeing from the spear' 


Go CHAKA COMES TO DINGISWAYO 

—Nandi's ears pricked up, straining to hear, and she 
cast her eyes into the darkness to see who spoke—'I come 
to thee to beg protection'—Nandi cried 'Oh, oh', a 
pidful wail, and fell to the ground in a faint. At the 
same moment a cry rang out from the enclosure of the 
hut from which Nandi had been brought, and the women 
that were her companions came, wailing as they ran. 
They had been summoned by the voice they knew so 
well, the voice of him whom they had long given up for 
dead. And a man in the crowd was saying, 'Then the 
doctor's bones were right after all', mentioning the name 
of the witch-doctor who had persevered in praising his 
divining bones. 

Now there was a madman on the veld in the bush, 
living in the caves near the Umfolosi, who caused loss 
to the people by devouring their goats and catde. It 
seems that he was possessed by evil spirits such as those 
we hear of in the Scriptures, and when people pursued 
him to recover from him what they had lost he used to 
injure them and kill any he could. Any one he captured 
he impaled alive on a stake or a tree, as the butcher bird 
does, and he was very greatly feared for this reason. But 
Kafirs have always a great dread of madmen, and even the 
bravest will flee if a madman shows fight. 

The day after Chaka arrived this madman did great 
damage among Dingiswayo's herds. He hemmed them 
in on difficult ground, and when he tried to procure one 
to slaughter a great many of them fell, and an ox of 
beautiful colour, much admired at feasts, which was the 
pride of Dingiswayo's kraal, was killed. When his herd- 
boys came and told him at midday Dingiswayo was very 
sad, for only a few days before this same madman had 
devoured an ox of his that was exceedingly well trained 
and was an adornment to his herd. Dingiswayo was at a 


HE KILLS A MADMAN 61 

loss to know how to kill the madman, and among all 
the companies of warriors that he had with him, there was 
no one with the courage to face the man. 

Chaka was present when the herdboys brought the 
tidings to the chief, and when he saw that no one would 
go he rose up and went himself. And Dingiswayo 
followed him with a large number of men, giving the 
strictest orders that none should run away: the madman 
must be killed, he had tried their patience too long. 
Chaka himself was at his wits' end. He thought that if 
he could kill this madman the achievement would bring 
him peace and quiet in the village, and would be a speedy 
means of bringing him to the notice of the chief. And if 
he was killed by the madman it was no matter; he was 
already as good as dead, for his life was such a hard one. 
And he thought perchance the madman would be his 
salvation. 

When they reached the bush where the madman was 
they began to go in single file. When they were above 
the caves that formed his abode they saw him come out, 
singing his praises and brandishing his spears. Then all 
scattered and fled. Chaka hesitated for a while, but at 
last he too fled. When they had all emerged from the 
bush he stood up and turned round, and he saw that the 
men were in a long line with the madman in pursuit, 
stabbing at them as he ran and killing them: none 
resisted, for all thought he had an 'itongo' (evil spirit). 
When the madman approached Chaka made as though 
to run away, and as the madman realized now that he was 
feared and that none would fight him he came on all 
unprepared for resistance. His spear was raised in the 
air, ready to strike, and he was unprepared for defence, 
for he saw that Chaka had no spears and that he was only 
a boy. Suddenly Chaka jumped to one side and the spear 


62 CHAKA COMES TO DINGISWAYO 

struck the ground, and before the madman could pull it 

out Chaka had struck him in a vital spot and killed him. 

This madman was the first man that Chaka killed with 
the short spear made for him by Isanusi. 

Dingiswayo from a distance saw what Chaka had 
done, and then he came to him, and all the people were 
astonished at Chaka's hardihood. How had he been able 
to overcome the madman whose eyes were terrible to 
look upon, great balls of fire ? And all knew now for the 
first time that the stories told of Chaka, of his killing the 
lion and the werewolf, could not have been exaggerated. 
From the very moment of his arrival the son of Senza- 
ngakona made a great name for himself by this killing of 
the madman, and the people honoured him. 

The third day after Chaka arrived Dingiswayo left his 
village with his regiments to go and meet with Zwide, 
who had been harassing him with raids. Chaka was placed 
among the chief's regiments, as a common soldier, and 
was delighted, for he thought that these must be the wars 
that he had been promised would win him the chieftain¬ 
ship he was seeking. He went, therefore, with joy, not 
like a man going to war where strong men and heroes 
perish. He resembled rather a man going to a merry 
feast at which the one he loved was to be present. He 
went with only one spear in his hand and no knobkerrie 
or battle-axe, and on the day when they were to depart, 
when Dingiswayo was making his speech to them before 
the battle, Chaka was almost weeping with vexation at 
the delay. When they began to leave the village, after 
leaping through the magical fire, Chaka was uplifted with 
joy and his hand ceased to itch, for it had been paining 
him like the teeth of a hunting-dog eager to hunt. Chaka 
was in the first band of the Black Shields. 

When they joined battle Zwide's men advanced 


THE WAR AGAINST ZWIDE'S COUNTRY 63 

shouting their war-songs, confident of victory. When the 
rival forces drew nigh one of Zwide's warriors leapt 
forward and repeated his chief's praises again and again, 
and darted from one end of the line to the other. He 
then rejoined his companions and repeated the perform¬ 
ance many times. When he was close to Dingiswayo's 
men he seized his spear and poised it, pointing it at them. 
And at the moment when he had made an end of his 
praises amid the chorus of the whole army, the battle 
began, and Zwide's men advanced at a run. 

Chaka's company, as it was in front, was sent forward 
first, and when the fight grew hot it fled, leaving Chaka 
alone surrounded by the enemy. When Dingiswayo saw 
his men flee he sent up more and more supports to the 
rescue, so that Chaka might not be killed. Farther and 
farther into the thick of the fight went the son of Senza- 
ngakona, laying men low with his short spear, and great 
gaps appeared wherever he was. He struck with his 
spear, and used his left hand to parry the blows. Dingi¬ 
swayo could only see the black shield of the son of 
Senzangakona getting blacker and blacker in the midst 
of the fight where mighty men were falling and his brown 
spear becoming red with the blood of the foe. 

At midday Zwide's army broke and fled in all directions, 
and Chaka scattered them with his spear as they fled. 
After a while he found himself alone with the fleeing foe, 
and they fell upon him and pressed him hard. Again 
Dingiswayo commanded two companies to run forward 
and quickly to confront Zwide's men, so as to make safe 
Chaka's retreat. At that moment all Zwide's men began 
to notice that Chaka was amongst them, but the two 
companies were already close at hand but hidden. And 
now Chaka was attacked by about ten of the enemy at 
once. He threw them into difficulties and darted away 


64 CHAKA COMES TO DINGISWAYO 

with unbelievable speed, killing as he went. At first they 
took little heed of him because he was alone, but soon 
they were striving hard to kill him, for he had killed so 
many of their number. As he was darting about Chaka 
tripped and fell, and before he could rise again two men 
were upon him with their spears and knobkerries. In 
his panic Chaka called upon the name that he loved, he 
called upon it in his extremity when death was nigh 
—Tsanusi'. As he uttered the name he quickly drew up 
his feet and kicked at the warrior whose spear was 
poised above him ready to strike. He kicked him with 
his two feet (while still on the ground) under the knees, 
and he fell on the spot where Chaka had been when he 
drew up his feet. The second man brought down his 
huge terrible club and broke open his companion's 
head and scattered his brains. At the same moment 
Chaka, from behind, caught hold of the man with the 
club and threw him violently to the ground and sprang 
upon him and took away his spear and club. 

At that very moment other men of Zwide's arrived, 
and, thinking that Chaka was the one on the ground, in 
their haste they killed their own man. This enabled 
Chaka to regain his weapons, and before they realized 
what they had done he had killed others of them, and 
they only saw that they had been fighting amongst 
themselves when the company sent to rescue Chaka 
appeared; and Zwide's men fled, one of them in possession 
of Chaka's shield, which he had taken when Chaka was 
lying on the ground. When Chaka saw the shield in the 
man's hand he pursued him at full speed, but it became 
clear that his enemy was his equal in speed, for the dis¬ 
tance between them did not lessen but rather increased. 
In Chaka's eyes it was the greatest possible disgrace for 
a man to return from a battle having lost his shield or his 


THE WAR AGAINST ZWIDE'S COUNTRY 65 

spear (this is also the view of the Basuto), for a man should 
suffer death rather than allow his shield to be taken. 
Therefore Chaka cried out again Tsanusi'. As he uttered 
his cry Zwide's warrior tripped and stumbled and fell 
and turned a somersault; and when he rose he fell again 
on his neck. As he was rising from the ground again 
Chaka reached him and struck him before he could 
recover, and this time he fell to rise no more. And then 
Zwide's warriors scattered and fled. 


F 


Chapter Nine 


NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 
HAKA was accustomed to tell his mother everything 



concerning the medicines given him by the witch¬ 
doctor, and what is especially remarkable is that he did 
not tell her of his meeting with Isanusi or what he had 
done to him and what he had promised. He only said 
that the witch-doctor of whom they had been told had 
met him and worked upon him, and he minimized the 
whole affair, telling only the outlines. Perhaps (we say 
'perhaps' because we do not know if this was the reason), 
perhaps he was afraid to tell his mother fully of Isanusi 
because he thought in his heart that Isanusi was a sorcerer, 
and that his mother might bid him have nothing to do 
with him. But it was nothing to Chaka if the man was a 
sorcerer or not, if only he could procure from him the 
right medicines and the chieftainship that he desired. 
His one intention now was to do whatever would bring 
him to the chieftainship, however evil an act it might be. 

After this war with Zwide, Dingiswayo fought many 
other wars with the surrounding tribes and continued to 
overcome them, and then he ceased in order to give his 
warriors rest. When Zwide saw this he thought that the 
number of Dingiswayo's warriors must have decreased 
and that he was only waiting to fill the gaps with a new 
band of young men; accordingly, he determined to go to 
war at once. At that time Zwide gathered together his 
whole tribe—men and youths, old men and young boys 
just beginning to wield a spear; even those who always 
stayed at home were made to come. This was the plan of 
campaign. Zwide was to go forward first to meet Dingi¬ 
swayo, and when the battle was joined he was to turn in 
flight. He would retreat and then attack, again and again. 


NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 67 
until he drew Dingiswayo into a gorge where he had 
hidden his reinforcements in the bush who would come 
to his aid: for on this occasion Zwide had invited the aid 
of another chief. When Zwide reached the reinforcements 
he was to slacken in flight, still keeping up his resistance, 
until Dingiswayo's men had passed the appointed place. 
Then the reserve troops were to rise up and appear in 
the enemy's rear, and at that moment Zwide would return 
to the attack, and Dingiswayo would be surrounded on all 
sides: none would be able to escape, for below the path 
along which Zwide was to flee were the steep cliffs of the 
gorge down which none could go—unless he were thrust 
over. 

It was at this juncture, when Zwide was still deliberating 
war, that a happening of great importance to Dingiswayo 
and his people took place, although they did not know 
of it. 

Early on the morning of his day Chaka rose up early 
to go to the river. And when he had made an end of 
anointing himself and was about to leave the water, as 
he was going up, he saw two young men of very dissimilar 
appearance. They were sitting on their haunches above 
the bank of the river where Chaka was about to pass. 
They were silent, they were not speaking to each other, 
and both were looking at Chaka. Chaka looked at them 
and they looked hard at him, and he discovered that he 
had never seen men anything like them before; they were 
of an entirely different race of men. One of them, from 
the appearance of his eyes and features, was quite clearly a 
quick and energetic young man, a warrior with experience 
of war. It was easy for Chaka to see that without any 
doubt he did not belong to Kafirland: he saw that he 
came from a tribe far, far away, at the ends of the earth, 
from a tribe of giants and mighty men. And yet even 


63 NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 
among such a tribe Chaka saw that this young man would 
be able to scatter the people with his spear and cast them 
to the ground, winning for himself fame among the 
strongest of that far land. 

Sitting there on his haunches he had the appearance 
of being able to run with the swiftness of an animal of 
the veld, with the swiftness of a whirlwind. He was 
muscular with swelling calves. His eyes were piercing 
and did not flinch when they looked at a man, they were 
the eyes of one reared in a chief's village among many 
people, of one who was accustomed to look upon men 
of all nations and tribes. The loin-cloth he wore was 
beautifully made. He had a circlet of porcupine quills on 
his head and copper bangles on his arms, and it was clear 
that he was not only a brave man but an accomplished 
man, a hero beloved of the daughters of men. 

The second young man seemed 'flabby' with drooping 
ears and a loose mouth. His ears were the largest ever 
seen, like caves to receive the wind, or rather the tidings 
and talk of men. His eyes were watery, full of deceit and 
treachery. They could not meet another's eyes; they were 
weak. And even when they looked at any one they did 
not seem like the eyes of a human being, but like the eyes 
of an image. His hair was curled, flapping over his eyes 
and down his neck in plaits, which increased his evil 
appearance and made him look an idiot. He had high 
cheek bones and hollow cheeks and a protruding lower 
jaw. His hands were extremely long and broad but thin, 
which showed that he had the grip of a blind man, who 
does not let go when once he has a hold. His shins 
were long and his feet thin and sinewy. The appearance 
of his legs and flanks showed that he was a wonderfully 
swift runner. The skin on his feet was parched, and chaps 
covered his heels and even the soles of his feet. 


NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 69 

When Chaka first saw them this second young man 
was bending to the ground, but when Chaka's eyes 
alighted on him this deformed one rose and lifted his 
head and looked this way and that impatiently. His ears 
became bigger and rounder than ever, his eyes still more 
full of guile and falsehood. He stepped around like an 
ostrich and then sat down again. The other young man 
was holding a spear and short shield like Chaka's, and 
when Chaka's eyes alighted upon him he waved his spear 
gently from side to side, his face became set and hard, the 
muscles of his body stiffened and his eyes blazed. Then 
Chaka saw clearly that these were not men whom he 
might fight; he would have no success there. So Chaka 
went back again into the water, afraid, and drew a reed 
from the river and peeled it. And when he called upon 
Isanusi, the idiot stood up, looked this way and that, 
stretched his neck, and then sat down again. Then the 
intelligent looking one said, 'Chaka, trouble not thyself 
to call upon Isanusi. We are thy friends and no enemies. 
We are the enemies of thy enemies. Come up that thou 
mayest hear the tidings.' When he spoke thus there was 
power in his voice, so that whomsoever he addressed 
could not but hear him and hasten to fulfil his command. 
Furthermore, it was clear that he spoke with the mouth of 
a leader accustomed to give commands to mighty regi¬ 
ments of men. 

When Chaka heard them calling him by his name and 
heard them speak of Isanusi, whose existence was a secret 
of which Chaka alone knew, and when he perceived 
that they called him at the moment when he was calling 
upon Isanusi, which showed that they knew that he was 
calling upon him, then he believed indeed that they had 
come from his witch-doctor. He came up joyfully when 
he perceived that these strange men had come to him, sent 


70 NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 
by Isanusi to be his friends. He greeted them, and at once 
asked their tidings like a man who desires and is eager to 
ask. 

'What are the tidings from Isanusi? Is Isanusi well? 
How did ye know that I was here at the river? And 
whence do ye come so early in the morning ?' 

'Our tidings: we have been sent by Isanusi to dwell 
with thee. He is still well. We knew that thou wast here 
because it is thy day. We come from the veld near by.' 

'But how did ye know that I was at the river and at 
this place?' 

'We knew because we are the companions of Isanusi 
and can see in the darkness and where all is hidden. 
We can hear from afar and can read the thoughts of a 
man's heart.' 

As soon as they began to speak to one another the 
idiot stood up and went behind the other and sat with 
his back to him, watching. Chaka asked what he was 
doing and they said: 

'Always when we speak of things that are secret we 
act thus, so that one may watch from behind and the 
other from in front, so that none may creep up to us 
unawares and hear our secrets.' 

'WTiat is thy name ?' Chaka asked the idiot. 

'Ndlebe.' 

'Ndlebe. What meaneth it, or is it because thy ears 
are large ?' 

'It is because I hear well.' 

'Thou dost hear well?' 

'Yea.' 

'WTiat dost thou hear?' 

'All that ears can hear.' 

'Thou too wast sent to me ?' 

'Yea.' 


NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 71 

'What wilt thou do ?' 

'I will hearken to tidings and secrets for thee, so that 
none may perchance plot secretly against thee.' 

Chaka was doubtful of this idiot who spoke to him 
while bending to the ground and who refused to look 
him in the eyes; who gave short answers like one who 
has no love for speech. But he was soon convinced 
that he had indeed come in the way that he had said. 

'Who art thou ?' he asked the other. 

'Men call me Malunga.' 

'What dost thou call thyself, since thou sayest others 
call thee Malunga?' 

'I do not call myself by any name, for a man does not 
take a name for himself: he is given it by others.' 

'What are thy tidings about which thou hast come ?' 

'Methinks we have already answered thy question: 
we come to abide with thee and watch over thee and be 
near thee in war, for a mighty war is at hand in which thou 
wilt win glory in the eyes of thy chief, greater glory than 
thou hast already won. We will stand by thee in these 
wars. Ndlebe will be thy ears and will hear all tidings for 
thee. I will be thy right hand and will fight for thee. But 
Ndlebe and I will both be present when the battle has 
been joined and the fight is thick. In times of peace when 
there is no war I will abide with thee and we will take 
counsel together, and if thou dost wish for aught in thy 
heart thou must tell it me, and it is I who will seek out the 
means by which thy desire may be accomplished and all 
come to pass as thou dost wish. Ndlebe will sit in the 
home of the chief and abide in his presence, and men will 
speak freely while he is there and will heed him not, for 
thou thyself seest that he seems but half a man. Nay, but 
I tell thee he is wholly a man, a man indeed. Furthermore, 
the time when thou must return to thy home and win thy 


72 NDLEBE AND MALUNGA COME TO CHAKA 
chieftainship is at hand. Such were the reasons that made 
Isanusi say it was good for us to come here to be nigh 
thee.' 

When Chaka heard that the time for him to win his 
chieftainship was at hand he could not speak for joy, and 
he mused in his heart how pleasant it would be v/hen he, 
Chaka, the rejected of his father, came and sat in his 
father's seat, and what would be his revenge upon his 
enemies at that time. Merely to kill them, he thought, 
was far too small a thing; they were deserving of more 
than death. 

They went homewards, and as he walked Chaka asked 
them of the war they had said was at hand, and all they 
told him he believed, because they were the companions 
of Isanusi. Here again is the second thing that causes us 
astonishment. Chaka did not tell his mother of the 
coming of these men, but only said that he had found an 
idiot to carry his blanket. He did not tell her fully whence 
they came or what brought them, and he spoke only of 
one and kept the other a secret. We ask again who were 
Isanusi and his companions that Chaka hid everything 
about them from his mother? His way had always been 
to tell all tidings to her, both good and bad. 


Chapter Ten 


CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 
> was right, Chaka caused Ndlebe and Malunga to 



XAA appear before Dingiswayo so that he might know 
them, and said: 'Chief, ever since I came hither in flight 
I have been alone, but to-day there have come from my 
home two young men who are my subjects. One carries 
my blanket; he is an idiot. The other is my friend and 
has come to see me, and I have caused them to appear 
before thee that thou mayest know them and not wonder 
who they are when thou seest them.' They were called 
and came forward. And as soon as they appeared Ding i- 
swayo shuddered and rose from the ground in fear. When 
they had departed he said, 'Chaka, dost thou say that 
these two men come from thy home ?' 


: Yea, chief. 


'Didst thou know them in thy youth, or have they 
become known to thee but lately ?' 

T was reared with them, chief.' 

T ask it because one is an idiot without doubt, and is 
not fit even to carry thy blanket. The second I do not 
like, for his eyes are deceitful, full of guile and treachery. 
Take him hence, I fear him; he is indeed evil. Dost thou 
say thou didst know him also in thy youth ?' 

'Yea, chief.' 

This is the first occasion on which we find Chaka 
telling a lie. We know that throughout his youth and 
during his childhood he was accustomed always to speak 
the truth. The beginning was when he hid from his 
mother his meeting with Isanusi. And when he told her 
of these men he touched upon the matter lightly, mixing 
falsehoods with his story. And now to Dingiswayo he 
had told deliberate lies without a grain of truth. He was 



74 CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 

gradually slipping away from truthfulness, whither we do 

not know. 

'Take heed to thyself, Chaka. This friend of thine, 
from thy home, hath some secret power and will harm 
thee; thou must guard thyself. I wonder that thou sayest 
thou didst know him in thy youth, for his features and, 
above all, his eyes show clearly that he is not a man of 
these parts. He is a giant, coming whence we know not. 
He is indeed a sorcerer.' As Dingiswayo spake these 
words he shuddered a second time, when he thought on 
the deceit he had seen showing clearly in Malunga's eyes. 

In the evening Malunga said to Chaka, T have seen it: 
thy chief despises me and thinks that I am evil. Therefore 
will I not remain where my life will be an hard one, but 
I will return to my home. I trust to Ndlebe who will win 
for thee all that thou dost need. Trust in him and thou 
shalt see that he is a man of truth and worthy of trust. 
But if thou dost vex him he will desert thee. Tend him 
well with food, for he eateth much, and he will carry thy 
blanket for thee; he is a strong beast of burden. He will 
procure tidings for thee; he is a dog with a keen scent 
and the sharpest of ears. And greatest of all, in time of 
war he knows how to divine the plans of the enemy.' 

The regiments left the village to meet Zwide at the 
border of the land, and they hastened so that they might 
arrive before he could spoil the paths with medicines. 
They met on the high flat ground overhanging the gorge 
through which the river Folosi passed. Dingiswayo, as 
was his custom, did not send forward all his men at once, 
but drew aside certain regiments to be a support to which¬ 
ever wflng was weak. He used to say that at the beginning 
of a fight men went forward carried away with excitement, 
the eyes of each man fixed upon his adversary alone: they 
did not look to see if they were still together; and thus 


CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 75 

some would penetrate far into the ranks of the enemy, 
thinking that their companions were with them, and 
would be killed unnecessarily. The company commanded 
by Chaka was sent forward at the very beginning. 

The fight was long. Zwide was steadily retreating, 
making at times sudden counter-attacks, and was drawing 
Dingiswayo's men on to the gorge in the bush. At mid¬ 
day Dingiswayo sent forward all the warriors he still had 
with him to be an overwhelming force and drive Zwide's 
men over the precipice. At this moment Ndlebe reached 
Chaka, covered with mud like a dog that has been run¬ 
ning. Plaits of hair were falling over his eyes and down 
his neck, and he had a look of cunning, like a dog when 
on the track of an animal; like a dog, too, he had his mouth 
open and he was panting. He said, 'My master, there is 
peril in the bush. Watch, beware. Zwide hath hidden 
many companies in the bush, and this flight of his is no 
flight: it is but to entice you into the bush, so that ye 
may be surrounded and killed to a man. I counsel to 
withdraw thy men, as if to rest them (for all know it was 
they who began the fight). And do not thou advance 
again until I come to thee.' 

Ndlebe entered the bush and thrust his way through 
until he came out on the other side, and set alight to the 
dry grass there: for it was winter and the grass was 
withered; also there was much of it, for it was jungle. 
A breeze drove the burning grass towards where the fight 
was. At the moment when Ndlebe set fire to the grass 
Chaka was above the gorge with his company, and the 
fight was thickest on the slopes of the gorge close to the 
bush. Zwide's own men were already opposite the place 
where the reinforcements were hidden, when suddenly 
they were astonished to see bright red flames rushing 
towards them—for the wind was blowing and there was 


76 CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 

much grass. The reinforcements came helter-skelter out 
of the bush, for they feared they would be burnt where 
they were; but it was evident that they could not retreat 
because the burning grass had blocked their path. Thus 
they were constrained to enter the fight again and en¬ 
deavour to drive Dingiswayo's men back, if they could 
but find a way. But this was difficult, for Dingiswayo's 
men were on higher ground. And then the fight waxed 
very fierce. Zwide's forces, with the fire driving them on 
from the rear and Dingiswayo's men blocking the path in 
front, saw defeat close at hand. The fire waxed hotter and 
hotter, and each man sought for himself a path of escape: 
they were fighting for their lives, not now for the honour 
of their 'praises' and war-songs. And in a very short space 
of time the number killed was far greater than all who fell 
during the earlier fighting. 

When the fight was at its fiercest Ndlebe came to Chaka 
and said, 'Delay not, advance'. When Chaka's company 
appeared Zwide's men thought that Dingiswayo also had 
made a plan similar to theirs, and that he was now sending 
forward his picked troops; and they scattered in flight. 
And as they scattered thus they suddenly saw the grass 
burning and saw, too, the flames. By now the fire had 
increased, and its heat could be felt even from a distance. 
It was beginning to attack the bush when they saw it. 
The dry trees crackled with a great noise when they felt 
the force of the fire, and the sound was to Zwide's men 
like the mocking shouts of their enemies. And then some 
cast themselves from the crags and narrowly escaped 
death. Others thrust through the burning grass which 
was as high as their shoulders and escaped, but scorched. 
Others were burnt and maimed and died of their burns. 
Some became cripples, but lived. 

There was a cave in the bush, known only to a few, and 


CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 77 

Zwide hid himself there with a small body of men. It 
was where the bush was thickest, and a path like the track 
of a field-mouse led to it and came out on the other side. 
But Ndlebe told Chaka where Zwide was. And Chaka 
commanded part of his troop to rout him out from 
behind so that he would have to pass Chaka in his flight, 
for there was no other means of escape because of the 
thickness of the bush. And Chaka and Ndlebe hid them¬ 
selves by the side of the path. As soon as Chaka's men 
entered the cave Zwide and his men came out and fled by 
the track that led to Chaka. And when Chaka heard their 
footsteps approaching he seized his spear in preparation, 
and looking round, saw Ndlebe on his left with his axe 
already raised, waiting for them to appear. Ndlebe was 
blazing with anger, he was no more the idiot he had 
appeared before, and his body was greater: he was like a 
wounded lion in agony, ready to avenge the blood that it 
has poured out. 

Chaka looked to the right, and wondered exceedingly 
when he saw Malunga at his side, silent, with his short 
spear ready and his eyes, red like blood, fixed on the 
narrow path along which Zwide must come. He had the 
appearance of an animal crouching to spring. But there 
was no time to ask whence he had come. 

When Zwide and his men appeared they were wedged 
so tighdy together that some of them could not move, and 
because of the thickness of the bush they did not see 
Chaka immediately: many of them, indeed, were fatally 
wounded before they saw him. The thick bush also 
prevented them from either retreating or defending them¬ 
selves. And then Chaka was upon them. Swiftly he 
killed them where they stood crowded together. Ndlebe 
hacked at their heads incessantly with his axe where they 
stood crowded together. Malunga's arm also was as 



7 8 CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 

fatal as Chaka's, but he killed even more men, for the 
thickness of the bush did not seem to hinder him at all. 
Chaka's men in the rear thrust the enemy forward with 
their spears, and Chaka and his two companions held the 
pass. It was on this day that Chaka's hand was blistered 
with killing. Zwide was taken alive and brought to 
Dingiswayo, who did not permit a chief to be killed. 
And as soon as Chaka was able to look about him he 
found that Ndlebe and Malunga had gone; he was left 
with the men who had been sent to rout out Zwide. 

When Ndlebe first came the fight was still fierce, and he 
shouted in the tongue of Ndwanda: 'The chief has been 
taken, the picked troops of Dingiswayo are here about to 
enter the fight, and Chaka is with them.' He did not need 
to repeat his words: they scattered immediately. And 
now the fire was as nothing, though not all of them could 
possibly escape it, but to wait for Chaka's attack meant 
certain destruction, and in their flight they cast themselves 
over the crags. 

At last the regiments were gathered together and led 
to their chief, and they found Zwide already there, bound, 
a captive. Ndlebe was lying on the ground like a tired 
dog that has run far: there was no trace of the cunning he 
had shown in the battle, he seemed once more as stupid 
as ever. He threw himself on the ground and lay there as 
if nothing had happened, while there were shouts of joy 
and victory all about. It seemed that he would not trouble 
himself to hear what were the tidings of the battle, which 
clearly showed that he was indeed an idiot. Dingiswayo 
and his warriors marvelled at Chaka's skill in command 
and in the fight and at the way in which he knew how to 
dishearten his enemies, for all that Ndlebe did was said 
to have been done by Chaka: none knew of Ndlebe's part. 
The cries of the women when the regiments returned 


CHAKA CAPTURES ZWIDE 79 

were wonderful to hear. Dingiswayo's return was the 
return of a chief, of a conqueror who had scattered his 
enemies. Chaka was their song, and in his honour it was 
sung. Dingiswayo detained his prisoner a few days and 
then released him, and sent him to his home in peace as if 
he had paid a friendly visit and was never a prisoner. 

And it was then that Chaka was placed in command of 
all the regiments of Dingiswayo, and in the many wars he 
always went with them while his chief remained at home. 
But even when Dingiswayo was present in war he gave 
his commands to Chaka, and Chaka gave them to the 
regiments. 


Chapter 'Eleven 

THE DEATH OF SENZANGAKONA 



LL the time Dingiswayo was scattering the tribes 


¦L A. Senzangakona felt very uneasy about his own posi¬ 
tion, for he more than any one had harassed Dingiswayo 
during his youth, and had even sought to kill him. And 
now when he saw this same Dingiswayo and his own son 
Chaka raising themselves more and more and subduing 
the tribes, he was in great terror, for he thought that 
Dingiswayo would take his revenge, especially as he 
always went to war without inviting Senzangakona, who 
was bidden to remain behind and keep guard at home. 
His wives did their best to have the name of Nandi 
expunged from the number of his wives: if she was ever 
mentioned she was to be spoken of only as a concubine. 
And Mfokazana did his best to win over the affections of 
the tribe by presenting them with catde and passing light 
sentences, and reducing the work that fell to the tribe, 
such as ploughing and hoeing their chief's fields. He made 
himself the people's friend who sympathized with them, 
so that when his father died they might think of him. 

Chaka remained where he was with Dingiswayo, 
thinking over his past life: and now his doubts were no 
more. He saw clearly that the chieftainship of his father 
would indeed be his, for all that Isanusi had told him had 
come to pass as he had foretold, and Chaka had full faith 
in him. Ndlebe was resting near by, lying at his ease with 
his mouth open. The flies were going in and out of his 
mouth as they liked, and his spittle was trickling from his 
lips and dropping to the ground. He appeared a thorough 
vagabond, snoring there in the day-time, fast asleep. 

While Chaka was thinking about his life as we have 
said, he looked at Ndlebe, and at that moment Ndlebe 


THE DEATH OF SENZANGAKONA 81 

awoke and scratched and scraped himself, with his mouth 
open, like a dog scratching itself with its hind foot. Like 
a dog, too, awakened from sleep, he yawned, and looked 
this way and that. Then he yawned again, and raised him¬ 
self up with his hands while his back and feet still remained 
on the gound. He looked at Chaka, and his ears pricked 
up and became lengthened, listening. Then he stood up 
and went away, swaying as he walked, with his hair 
hanging down on all sides in plaits and his little ox-hide 
reaching half-way down his back. When he returned 
he told Chaka that Dingiswayo's uncle and two others 
had made a plot against him, jealous that he had been 
raised above them. Chaka told Dingiswayo, and these 
men instead of killing Chaka were killed themselves. 

On the afternoon of that day when the shadows were 
lengthening, Chaka saw Ndlebe prick up his ears like a 
dog when it perceives some scent, and go away treading 
carefully like a dog with its nose in the air, attracted by 
some sweet savour. Then Ndlebe disappeared towards 
the west. The sun set and the night came and went. The 
sun rose again and set, and still Ndlebe was not there. 
When the sun rose a third time he came, covered with 
dew like a hyena, and signed to Chaka with his eyes. And 
when they were alone he said, T have brought thee sad 
tidings to-day, but methinks that thou shouldst be glad. 
Thy father Senzangakona is dead'. Chaka's brain reeled, 
and he became afeared, for his father had been a young 
man, far from the grave as people so foolishly suppose. 
He saw his brothers, now that his father was dead, dividing 
the inheritance alone and not allowing him to come nigh. 
To be grieved excessively was never his way, and there¬ 
fore he told Dingiswayo the tidings as soon as he had 
received them. 

T hear it,' said Dingiswayo, 'and I am sorrowful at 

G 


82 THE DEATH OF SENZAGAKONA 

the death of thy father, my subject, but forasmuch as I 
have not heard of it by any messenger sent by the chief¬ 
tains or his sons I can do naught. Have patience, let us 
wait. The tidings will come.' 

The sons of Senzangakona informed Dingiswayo of 
the death of their father after they had buried the body; 
it was merely that he might know what had occurred. 
But if he had been informed at the right time, and if a 
heifer had also been sent, he would have dispatched a 
messenger with his condolences. When the time of 
mourning was ended (it had been greatly shortened 
because the sons were eager for the inheritance) the 
chieftains gathered together the people and presented 
Mfokazana to them: 'This is the son of your chief. Take 
and guard him. He hath two younger brothers, Dingana, 
and Mhlangana. Them too ye must guard. And ye two, 
children of the chief, ye must hearken to your elder 
brother and honour him, and must be his instruments in 
everything and in all matters of danger.' And the 
assembly said, 'Hail, chief of the many oxen. Guard us. 
We are thy people. May there be rain.' At that gathering 
none spoke of Chaka; he was not granted so much as a 
single inch of his father's land for an inheritance. 

Thus was Mfokazana installed as chief in his father's 
stead, and Dingiswayo heard naught of it. None the less, 
he had a right to hear, so that he might be present on the 
day, or might send a messenger as his representative, for 
an under-chief is installed by the chief who is his superior. 
Mfokazana continued his preparations daily, like a man 
who knows that war is at hand, for he knew that Chaka, 
though absent, would not lightly relinquish the chieftain¬ 
ship he had been promised, but would fight manfully 
and try his utmost, and would relinquish it only if he was 
overcome. 


THE DEATH OF SENZANGAKONA 83 

That same day Ndlebe came to Chaka and told him of 
the installation of Mfokazana as chief, and Chaka asked 
if Dingiswayo knew of it. Ndlebe said that he did not. 

'Methinks that is so/ Chaka said, 'for he would have 
told me. It is a grievous fault to embark on matters of 
such moment without Dingiswayo's knowledge: it is to 
declare themselves chiefs in their own right, and not 
subjects. They were at fault, too, in the manner in which 
they brought the tidings of my father's death.' 

Dingiswayo came to the great court, and Chaka told 
him the tidings, and he said: 'Hast thou certain know¬ 
ledge of the tidings thou dost tell me, Chaka ? I ask it, for 
it seems that thy brothers have been grievously at fault, 
and this is not the first time they have acted towards me 
thus.' 

T have knowledge of it from one who was present, 
chief.' 

'This thy brothers' act causes me sorrow. I see that 
the widow-bird hath grown its tail again. Furthermore, 
at this moment they should be mourning the death of 
Senzangakona: they should not be entering upon their 
inheritance when he is but barely dead, and the tears are 
not yet dry upon their cheeks. For the present I shall say 
naught, for I know naught: I have not been told. I shall 
speak when they inform me. But do thou prepare thyself 
to-day, and I will send thee to thy home to win thy 
chieftainship that Mfokazana hath stolen from thee. But 
make no haste; thou must tarry six months here with 
me, that thou dishonour not thy dead father by striving 
for the chieftainship in war when he is but barely dead 
and his body still warm in the grave.' 

At that moment Ndlebe stretched himself in his sleep 
and raised his head and looked about him, and his 
spittle trickled to the ground, disgustingly. And then 


G 2 


84 THE DEATH OF SENZANGAKONA 

he stood up and scratched his brown swelling belly, and 

departed to the huts with his head bent to the ground. 

'Chaka, this man of thine is a true vagabond. Now he 
goeth to the huts, for his thoughts are of food only and 
sleep, like an animal.' 

'It is so, chief, but I have no other man, and therefore 
must I be at peace with him, even though he be an idiot.' 
And what Chaka said grieved Dingiswayo when he 
thought how Chaka had worked for him loyally and had 
never yet received any reward. And he gave him a band 
of men to serve him, as a gift, and said, 'Furthermore, thou 
must find thyself a wife, and I will provide the marriage 
cattle, for that I am now thy father.' 


Chapter Twelve 
NOLIWE 

AMONG Dingiswayo's sisters there was one that 
jCxl he loved exceedingly. She was the youngest of his 
mother's children and bore a great resemblance to 
Dingiswayo's elder sister, who had saved his life when she 
and Tana, his elder brother, perished. These two sisters 
might have been twins; even in their way of speaking 
they resembled one another. And that was why Dingi- 
swayo loved the sister who survived more than any other 
person: it was not so much that she was the child of his 
mother, but that her face was the face of his dead sister, 
whom in everything she resembled so strongly—in the 
appearance of her eyes, her cheeks, her ears, the sound of 
her voice, her figure, and her ways—the sister who had 
given up her life for Dingiswayo in his hour of need. 
Her name was Noliwe, and not only was she extra¬ 
ordinarily beautiful, but she had a generous nature, full 
of compassion and kindness. All who knew her said 
that Nkulunkulu had fashioned her to be an ensample to 
men, that her exceeding beauty and her gentle loving 
eyes might teach his children of the beauty and boundless 
love of their Maker, so that in Noliwe they might see the 
perfection of womanhood without spot or stain, and thus 
might perceive something of the perfection of Unkulu- 
nkulu. Maybe hers was the beauty that gave rise to the 
fable among the Basuto of the girl who could not leave 
her hut because of her beauty, for whenever she went 
abroad, none would go to the fields to his work, even 
the herdboys refused to herd, and all people ran to where 
she was to feast their eyes on her. 

Noliwe's love for Chaka was wonderful. She would 
not play 'kana' or even be present when it was played, 


NOLIWE 


86 

for during this game Chaka always stood to one side, 
Chaka, the delight of her eyes. 

When Ndlebe entered the court he found many young 
girls there, and as he entered one said, 'Here cometh 
Chaka's idiot,' and another said, 'Here cometh Ndlebe of 
the long ears like the field-mouse, Ndlebe in name and 
in deed.' When Noliwe heard them speak thus she said, 
'Mock him not, he is God's creature. Who mocks idiocy 
draweth it upon himself, and his children will be idiots. 
Art thou hungry, Ndlebe?' 'Yea,' he said, and then she 
gave him food, and as he ate she asked him, 'Where is thy 
master, Ndlebe?' 

'Who is my master?' 

'Is not thy master Chaka? Hast thou many masters, 
though thou art but one, that thou dost ask it ?' 

'If he is my master, he is my master. He is there at 
Dingiswayo's hut, the coward, the runagate, who was 
driven out by his brothers while they remained to devour 
the inheritance that was his birthright.' 

'Dost thou mean it, or art thou jesting? If Chaka be 
not brave, who is there that is brave ?' Ndlebe continued 
to cast scorn at Chaka, and presently he turned the talk 
upon the other young men. After a while they spoke of 
the killin g of Dingiswayo's uncle, and Ndlebe asked what 
was their crime in planning to murder Chaka. Then 
Noliwe said that her uncle had been shamed when Chaka 
was lifted up, he had been shamed exceedingly when the 
girls made their songs to Chaka. Ndlebe said, 'What did 
ye mean when ye sang to Chaka, the dead dog who is 
even as I am, and did not lift your voices in praise of 
those who were men and mighty chieftains ?' 

'To be a chieftain or the son of a chief is nothing, but 
the man in w T hose honour songs are sung is known as 
the bravest among the brave.' 


NOLIWE 87 

'Among all the regiments and companies of Dingi- 
swayo and his chieftains ye look first upon Chaka ? Is it 
not so ?' And the maidens answered at once, 'We needs 
must.' And Noliwe went further and said that none 
would consider herself married unless it was to a man as 
brave as Chaka. And Ndlebe said, 'Is it so that thou the 
daughter of a great chief, even of Jobe, would rejoice 
to be married to one of lowly station like Chaka only 
because he is a killer of men?' Noliwe said that she 
would rejoice to be so married: 'Further, Chaka is not 
of lowly station, but the son of a chief. He is also 
beautiful, with features smooth and rounded like a clay 
pot.' 

'Dost thou mean it, or art thou jesting ? Dost thou love 
him indeed, or is it mere talk ?' 

'I do not merely love him; I am ablaze with love. And 
I am afeared, for I have tried by every means to show my 
love, but it seems that he has no eyes to see.' 

Ndlebe and Noliwe were now speaking only to each 
other. 

On the evening of that same day Ndlebe entered 
another of the chief's courts and found the game of 
'Choose the one you love the best' proceeding. Some 
one said to Noliwe, 'Choose,' and Noliwe said, 'Guess.' 
'It is . . .' (and here her companion named some one). 
'Wrong', said Noliwe. 

'Choose.' 

'Guess.' 

'It is . . .,' and another name was mentioned. 

'Wrong.' 

'Choose.' 

'Guess.' 

'It is Chaka.' Noliwe's face lit up and she laughed 
when she heard Chaka's name, and she looked at Dingi- 


88 NOLIWE 

swayo (for he was present), and then said, 'I am dying with 
love for him. I cannot describe how I am wasting away 
with love.' She said this on purpose, so that Dingiswayo 
might hear that she was indeed dying with love for 
Chaka. 

On the morrow Ndlebe told Chaka: 'Perchance thou 
hast noticed and perchance thou hast not that the maidens 
of this village wonder at thee what manner of man thou 
art, for thou dost not sleep in the common hut with the 
other young men, thou dost not join in the songs and 
dances or in playing at "kana". Hast thou noticed that 
thou hast caused the people to wonder ?' 

'Their wonder is no gain to me. I care not if they 
wonder.' 

Ndlebe continued as if he had not heard what Chaka 
had said: 'Hast thou perceived that the young girls of 
this place are restless because of thee, and are afeared? 
Each one saith, "Will Chaka pass me by and I be taken 
by another ?" ' 

T care not for any of them. Whether they be restless 
or afeared is to me all as one. My work is with the spear 
alone in this village; it is to fight the wars of Dingiswayo. 
For that cause came I hither, and that is the desire of my 
heart. I have no time to think of these girls of thine.' 

'Thou dost not speak truth, Chaka. Pray, hearken. 
It is not true that thou dost not care for any of them, for 
there is one there for whom thou hast an exceeding great 
love, but thou dost fear her.' 

'But what was it for which thou didst call me, Ndlebe ? 
Thou didst not call me to speak childishly ?' 

T called thee on a great matter that is paining thy heart, 
a matter as dear to thee as is the chieftainship. It is not 
childish as thou dost say, and it concerns the maidens 
of this village.' 


NOLIWE 89 

'Ndlebe, didst thou indeed call me for this childish 
reason?' 

'Thou art mistaken; it is not childish. Hearken.' Now 
Chaka dearly loved Noliwe, but he did not see that a 
vagabond like himself, a wanderer without a home, could 
marry the daughter of a noble house who was also beloved 
by Dingiswayo. He thought that only some chieftain of 
far greater consequence than himself was fit for Noliwe, 
and therefore he renounced her with never a word. He 
feared Noliwe and also Dingiswayo. And although 
Ndlebe spoke in this way, he did not think for a moment 
that Noliwe was among the number dying for love of him. 

Swiftly in the twinkling of an eye the thought appeared 
from its far hiding-place whither he had driven it, the 
thought that perchance it was Noliwe who was dying for 
love of him. And Chaka smiled and said nothing, but 
kept his eyes on Ndlebe. And then Ndlebe said, 'Yea, 
dost thou not love her?' 

'Love whom?' 'Her at thought of whom thou dost 
smile.' And Chaka waited expectant, laughing softly, 
as if she had already been promised to him. 

'Yea, how fares she?' Chaka said. 

'Answer first my question. Dost thou love her or not ? 
I will give thee thy answer later.' Chaka continued to 
smile, and then Ndlebe said, 'Which of us two is the liar, 
the waster of time who speaks of childish matters ?' 

'It is I,' said Chaka as he laughed aloud. 'But tell me 
how "she" fares ?' 

'What is of more moment is that she hath an even 
greater love for thee than thou hast for her.' Chaka stood 
up and danced about the court for joy, laughing all the 
while to himself, and at that moment Noliwe entered the 
court and faced Chaka and their eyes spoke. She asked for 
Nandi, but they said she was not there, and then she went 


90 NOLIWE 

out, with her head on fire, asking herself what it was that 
had caused Chaka so much joy. And the answer she gave 
herself was that without a doubt Ndlebe had told him of 
what had taken place the day before: 'perchance it is true 
that Chaka rejoices because he has heard that I love him.' 

Chaka remained with Ndlebe in the court, his mind 
a rushing tempest of whirling thoughts, but they were 
thoughts of joy. Ndlebe let him be while he paced up 
and down until the raging tempest in his brain subsided, 
but before Ndlebe could speak Chaka asked him: 'What 
dost thou say, Ndlebe? Who is the "she" whose love for 
me is far greater than mine for her ?* 

'It is the one who but now entered in here, even 
Noliwe.' Chaka resumed his walk round and round; he 
was like a dancer beside himself. And when he was calm 
again he sat down and listened to Ndlebe. But in the 
moment of his joy he suddenly became sorrowful and sad 
when he thought of how his joy was but vain: he had 
grasped a shadow. For Dingiswayo would never consent 
to give him Noliwe, and rather than give her would 
drive him from his home. Ndlebe knew why he was sad 
and said: 'He whom thou dost fear, he it is and none 
other who will aid thee to win Noliwe.' And Ndlebe was 
silent while his ears pricked up and became lengthened, 
and then he said, 'But this shall belong to another day, 
for now I hear the footsteps of the messengers of Mfoka- 
zana, who come to tell Dingiswayo that he hath been made 
chief of his father's tribe. They are at hand. Depart and 
go to the great court that thou mayest hear the tidings 
for thyself.' 

'And thou, dost thou not come?' 

'It is not I who desire the chieftainship, but thou. 
Furthermore, I can hearken to the tidings from here in 
this court.' 


Chapter Thirteen 

CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE GRAVE OF 
SENZANGAKONA 

AT midday the messengers came to Dingiswayo and 
ZA. told him their tidings, how that the tribe had installed 
Mfokazana as chief in his father's stead. Dingiswayo was 
angered that Mfokazana had so frequently delayed to 
tell him of occurrences, even when he had a right to know 
them, and he said: 'Go, tell Mfokazana that I have heard, 
but that he hath committed wrong, and they too who 
installed him have committed wrong, for it was not he 
who was chosen by his father to succeed him in the 
chieftainship. The son of Senzangakona is still alive, 
that son at whose birth Senzangakona sent word to my 
father that he had received the gift of a man-child who 
would be his heir. I myself was present at that time, and 
the messengers who were sent are also alive and I know 
them. At no time did Senzangakona speak of Mfokazana.' 

The messengers returned sorrowful, afraid to meet 
their master who had sent them. When Mfokazana heard 
of it he sent them a second time, and sent also the messen¬ 
gers who had reported the birth of Chaka to Jobe. And 
the message he sent was that his father had afterwards 
seen that Chaka was an evil child who would not obey 
him, and that he and his mother were sorcerers. And 
for that cause he had driven him out, together with his 
mother. 

Dingiswayo answered and said: 'Go, tell Mfokazana 
that to-day is the first time I hear that Senzangakona 
repented of his decision or ever said that Mfokazana was 
to be his heir. To whom did he tell it? Furthermore, it 
is the first time I hear that Nandi is a sorcerer. Against 
whom has she practised her sorcery ? Tell Mfokazana that 


9 2 CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE 

but lately, when Chaka killed the lion that Senzangakona 
sent to me, Senzangakona again confirmed his first 
decision that Chaka should be his heir.' When Mfokazana 
heard this he gathered together the tribe and told them 
that he was deprived of the chieftainship by Dingiswayo, 
who gave it to Chaka, and he said, 'To-day it will be seen 
who are on my father's side. His orphan has been 
deprived of what is his right.' 

Ever since Chaka perceived what was in Noliwe's 
mind he had desired to meet with her and speak to her, 
and one day they met for a short time only. They did not 
say anything, but they exchanged their beads: Chaka gave 
his to Noliwe, and she gave him hers. And now Chaka 
began to try the feelings of the people, and especially 
of Dingiswayo, for if Dingiswayo did not wish him to 
marry Noliwe he would be angry with her for what she 
had done. Dingiswayo saw the beads and perceived that 
a beginning had been made. He saw that if Chaka were 
to marry Noliwe he would still be his subject and would 
be able to help him in all things and in his wars, and now 
he strengthened his decision that Chaka was to be his 
successor, and this was not merely his desire to please 
him but he saw also that circumstances were with Chaka. 
And he said: 'Ye men of my father's court, come to 
my aid, lest perchance I err in this matter through 
ignorance. Ye know that for a long while I have been 
absent. Did Senzangakona ever send to my father in my 
absence and say that he had changed from his decision, 
and that it was Mfokazana who was now to be chief?' 
The men, the councillors of Jobe's court, denied it, and 
then Dingiswayo said: 'Chaka, I have been absent from 
my home for a long while and I do not know what took 
place after I had gone. But if thy courage support thee 
take thy company and one other and deprive Mfokazana 


GRAVE OF SENZANGAKONA 93 

of the chieftainship from which he hath ousted thee, and 
may whoever is vanquished be satisfied and not com¬ 
plain.' 

And in that war Mfokazana was overcome and killed. 
Dingana and Mhlangana did not take part in the war, 
and Chaka thought to kill them, but Ndlebe begged that 
their lives might be spared. And this causes us great 
astonishment, for it was always Ndlebe's custom to fan 
the flame: far from counselling mercy he always urged 
the death penalty. But on this occasion he took the 
unbelievable part of begging mercy for these men who 
were Chaka's enemies. Chaka did great destruction when 
he came to his home, but none the less, he could not 
avenge himself as he wished for fear of Dingiswayo. 
When Dingiswayo's sister Noliwe heard how Chaka had 
overcome Mfokazana, she sent him a necklace of beads 
delicately strung as a reward, that it might remind Chaka 
of her, and Chaka in turn sent her gifts to show his great 
love for her. As we have said, Chaka was afraid to speak 
with Noliwe for fear of Dingiswayo, and he also feared 
Noliwe herself, for it was hard for Chaka to speak of 
marriage to the daughter of such a great chief. He 
thought that Noliwe would be angry with him and would 
say that he was backward in love, and for this cause he 
delayed to broach the matter. 

Malunga was present at the battle in which Mfokazana 
was killed, and in talk with him Chaka continually asked 
him what fault Dingiswayo found in him that he drove 
him away, and Malunga said: 'Dingiswayo is a prudent 
man, and his eyes can see what is hidden from the eyes of 
other men; they do not look upon the outside only, but 
pierce right into the heart of a man. He saw clearly that 
I too was prudent, and he fears that perchance I may turn 
his people against him and take from him the chieftainship. 


94 CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE 

but he knows not that to me the chieftainship is nothing: 

my work is with witchcraft.' 

And Chaka said: 'Malunga, this is my day. I will be 
crossed in naught. When I was with Dingiswayo I was 
forced to do as he wished. What I did not wish, that I 
was forced to do, if he wished it. But this is my day, on 
which I work my will, and therefore I say to thee, stay 
thou with me as hath been determined, and hide not thyself 
any more, for he from whom thou didst hide hath no 
power here.' 

'I rejoice to hear thee speak thus. For this very cause 
was I sent hither by my master.' 

The day came, appointed for the installation of Chaka 
in the chieftainship of his home, and Dingiswayo went 
there as he had promised. Fortune was kind to an 
extraordinary degree. The day before Chaka's installa¬ 
tion was the day on which he must rise early to go to the 
river. On that occasion Chaka rose up very early in the 
morning because the people who had come to his feast 
were already there, and he knew that if he went at his 
usual time they would see him. When he was returning 
from the river he saw dimly in the distance a man 
approaching him, followed by two others. It was 
Isanusi himself. We cannot possibly describe Chaka's 
joy at meeting with his witch-doctor at a time when such 
important happenings had taken place. He saw before 
him the one who had found him in the wild asleep under 
a bush, tired and hungry, with feet swollen from his 
wanderings over the land, when he did not know whither 
he was going, the one who had taken pity on him and 
made him a man, made him what he was to-day. 

'Greetings, Chaka.' 

'Greetings, my master, my father, my lord.' 

'How dost thou fare ? Is it well with thee ?' 


95 


GRAVE OF SENZANGAKONA 

'It is well, even more than I had hoped for.' 

'Doth the good fortune that I promised thee come to 
thee ? Dost thou see it ?' 

'It cometh in abundance.' 

'Hath my word been fulfilled when I said that thy 
sufferings would end from the time when I found thee ?' 

'It hath been fulfilled indeed.' 

'Doth the spear that I fashioned for thee perform its 
work ?' 

'Ah, peace, speak not of it, be silent.' 

'But what dost thou say thyself?' 

'Ah, be silent, speak not of it. Others may tell of it, 
but not I.' 

'Hast thou not seen that with those weapons of thine 
thou canst strike down even the brave and the strong men 
with thick necks ?' 

'When those weapons are in my hands the people die 
in multitudes.' 

'What of the men I sent thee ?' 

'They are even as thou didst say and more also. In 
war they are destroying lions, and in peace Ndlebe sur¬ 
passes even the diviners in scenting out tidings for me. 
I say naught of Malunga, for I know not his abode.' 

'In one word, art thou satisfied with my work ? Hath 
aught of what I told thee failed to come to pass ?' 

T am satisfied to the full; not one of thy predictions 
hath failed, and to witness it I may tell thee that to-morrow 
I shall be established in the chieftainship of my father, I 
the wanderer whom thou didst redeem.' 

'It is well, Chaka, and I rejoice that thou art satisfied 
with my work. And the future too will satisfy thee, for 
what thou hast seen and what thou hast done is but a 
beginning; greater things are yet to come. But thou must 
think on the words that I spoke to thee three times when 


96 CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE 

we were there yonder, when I said that the spear I had 
fashioned thee must perform its due work. If thou dost 
seek a chieftainship as great as that of Dingiswayo and 
a hundred times greater, and dost seek the fame that thou 
didst once long for, thy spear must be ever wet with 
blood, new blood, fresh blood. Furthermore, I told thee 
that the medicines with which thou wast inoculated were 
evil, and if thou dost not kill they will turn their potency 
against thee and kill thee. And even to-day if it seem to 
thee that thou hast killed enough, that thou hast won thy 
chieftainship and sufficient fame and if thou dost not desire 
aught else, thou must tell me now straightway, that I may 
dull the power of the medicines in thy blood that they 
kill thee not.' 

And Chaka answered and said: 'Isanusi, I, Chaka, when 
I have resolved a thing cannot turn back until the end is 
reached. I still hunger, I still seek. Let the cow continue 
to give milk, lord. I pray thee use all thy power and all 
thy wisdom that I may reach the goal whither thou art 
bringing me, and which thou in thy boundless wisdom 
alone dost know. As for the spear of which thou dost 
speak, it shall be red with blood on both blade and shaft.' 
And when Chaka said this Isanusi and his companions 
smiled. Isanusi did not ask his questions solely in order 
to know what was the state of affairs; his intention was 
rather to make Chaka believe in him and be satisfied. 
For Isanusi's predictions could not fail to be fulfilled 
invariably. 

When they reached the village Isanusi and his com¬ 
panions shut themselves in the hut, for Dingiswayo had 
come and they did not wish to meet with him, since he 
hated them bitterly—except Ndlebe whom he counted as 
an idiot, and despised. When they parted Isanusi bade 
Chaka meet with him at the grave of Senzangakona at 


GRAVE OF SENZANGAKONA 97 

midnight, where he would receive the blessings of his 
ancestors. 

At midnight Chaka went to his father's grave alone, 
and when he came there he saw Isanusi appear through 
the darkness with his companions. And there at the grave 
at midnight Isanusi doctored Chaka with many medicines, 
and most of them he smeared on his body. And when he 
had made an end he placed charms on Senzangakona's 
grave and made a small hole in it over which he sat. And 
then he spat and began to speak in a tongue not known to 
Chaka. He seemed to be in pain and very sorrowful, and 
the sound of his voice provoked pity. But he was not 
speaking to Chaka but to the spirits in the grave, and while 
he spoke thus the earth on top of the grave moved and 
was shaken. 

And at once Ndlebe stood up and ran round and round 
the grave, and Malunga struck the ground repeatedly 
with Chaka's spear and then raised it in his hand and 
poised it, pointing it towards the east, and then struck 
the ground again with it. He raised it again and did the 
same as before, pointing it towards the west, north, and 
south, until he had completed all the four points of the 
earth. And when he had made an end he planted this 
spear of Chaka's in the soil of his father's grave, and 
Isanusi became silent where he sat on top of the grave 
like a brooding hen. Ndlebe ceased encircling the grave 
and came and stood by Malunga, hunched up like a fowl 
in the rain. They remained thus, silent, for a long while, 
and the earth on the grave now became stiff and hard 
again—an awe-inspiring sight. Chaka heard something 
like wind blowing far away, and at that moment Isanusi 
began to speak again, more sorrowfully even than before. 
His voice sounded thin and low, as when a man pleads 
in dire need and begs for help, and then he was silent. 


H 


9 8 CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE 

And as soon as he had ceased speaking Ndlebe and 
Malunga departed together and sang a funeral dirge, 
most sorrowful, on their knees, and as they sang their 
grief seemed even greater than that of men who carry a 
dead body to the tomb. 

And while they were singing Chaka heard a voice 
coming up from the ground within the grave and speaking 
in the same tongue that Isanusi had used, and Isanusi 
answered it each time and made reply. And while Chaka 
listened in astonishment he continually heard his own 
name spoken, although he did not understand what was 
said. He heard the names of his ancestors who made reply 
until he came to his own father Senzangakona. Isanusi 
said softly 'Senzangakona', and Chaka heard his father's 
own voice speaking, just as it was when he was living, 
but he spoke in a tongue that Chaka did not understand, 
so that he became afeared and almost swooned. 

Isanusi answered Senzangakona twice, nay thrice, and 
then said, 'Chaka, take thy spear and thy stick and come 
hither.' And when Chaka had done so Isanusi said, 
'Stand above me and hearken to thy father speaking with 
thee, but hearken only, do not answer. And forasmuch 
as thou art not wont to speak with the dead and hear their 
voices, thou shalt receive thy father's blessing only, and 
shalt then depart and return to thy abode.' 

And Chaka stood above Isanusi, holding his spear in 
his right hand and his stick in his left, and then Isanusi 
spake again in that same tongue, and Senzangakona 
answered in the language he had used on earth when 
living, a language which Chaka could understand. 
Meanwhile, Ndlebe and Malunga had ceased from their 
mournful song and had drawn nigh to Chaka where he 
stood above Isanusi, and were walking round and round 
him singing a song; but this was a song of joy and grati- 


GRAVE OF SENZANGAKONA 99 

tude, the song of a man returning thanks that his prayers 
have been answered. And as they sang they encircled 
him, not following one another, but facing different ways 
and going in opposite directions. 

Senzangakona did not speak at length, but said that it 
was he who appointed Chaka as his successor when he was 
born: he had only pretended to reject him so that Chaka 
might know that power is won with difficulty, and might 
take the chieftainship by force and hold it firmly. And 
lastly he said: 'Chaka, my son, it is I, thy father, speaking 
to thee, I and all thy ancestors. We all tell thee that the 
power that each one of us wielded as chief will descend 
to thee, and there be consummated. Thou shalt be a 
mighty chief, owing obedience to none, and shalt vanquish 
all thy enemies. Thy shield shall defend thee from the 
spears of thy enemies, and thy spear shall slay them; thy 
people shall honour thee and fear thee. Thou shalt be a 
man and a chief.' 

Then Isanusi shook the dust from himself as a hen 
does, that Chaka might step to one side, and Ndlebe 
and Malunga ceased to walk in circles and clapped their 
hands and pointed them at the grave, and then became still 
and listened. And Isanusi said, 'Anoint Chaka's whole 
body with the medicine I gave you.' They anointed 
him while Isanusi gabbled to himself in that unintel¬ 
ligible tongue, cackling like a hen that has laid an egg. 
And when they had made an end of anointing him, 
Isanusi said: 'Return home with this chief's son that he 
may take the chieftainship that hath been given him by 
his ancestors. And thou, Chaka, do thou go and take the 
chieftainship and use it; thou art yet at the beginning of 
thy work. Thou hast heard the commandment of thy 
father: thy shield shall parry the spears of thy enemies, 
and thy spear shall slay them. Go thou, fulfil his word.' 


h z 


loo CHAKA AND ISANUSI AT THE 

And they went, and Isanusi was left at the grave. And 

then he too departed and returned to his home. 

It was still early when Chaka departed from the grave 
of his father; the cocks were crowing and the songs of 
birds could be heard; the rays of dawn had appeared and 
the Day Star was high in the heavens, hanging over him 
with shining countenance, as if it smiled with joy to see 
him; the wind had dropped and was at rest; it was as if 
all things did reverence to the passing hour when Chaka 
returned from the grave of his father. Chaka and his two 
companions walked on without speaking and without 
turning round, like men who have been doctored; they 
hastened their steps so that the night might not have gone 
when they reached their home. And as day was breaking 
they entered their hut in the village. 

Those who saw him return in the uncertain light say 
that when Chaka came from his father's grave he was 
seated on a horse that had a sleek and shining coat; it 
was being led by a maiden more beautiful than any other 
upon earth. Many people affirm that this was the first 
occasion on which the Princess of the Mazulu was seen, 
and it was she and none other who led the horse on which 
Chaka rode. Others believe that it was Noliwe, but 
Noliwe did not come until the cattle had been paid; 
moreover, she was accompanied by a great crowd of 
people, and it is impossible that she was there at that 
time. Also we cannot understand the mention of the 
horse on which Chaka is said to have ridden, for horses 
were not known in those days, and even the two which 
Dingiswayo brought from the Colony had already died. 
(Dingiswayo himself came to the feast on foot.) But all 
who saw Chaka say verily that he came riding a horse. 

The second difficulty has to do with the maiden. 
Where did she go when Chaka had reached his home? 


GRAVE OF SENZANGAKONA ioi 

It was already light, and it would have been impossible 
for her either to hide or to return whence she came 
without being seen. This in the only time in the story 
when she is mentioned. We hear nothing of her after¬ 
wards, except once only—during Chaka's reign when 
Noliwe was dead. 

And the third difficulty has to do with the horse. 
What became of it? For horses, apart from the two 
brought by Dingiswayo, were first seen long afterwards, 
when the White People came. 


Chapter Fourteen 

CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 

T HE day arrived on which Chaka was to be made 
chief. And after the time when the cattle go to graze 
Noliwe came with her companions, for she had been 
delayed and had been unable to come with Dingiswayo. 
When the assembly was seated Chaka came out from the 
hut where he had been in hiding since his return by night 
from his father's grave. Dingiswayo set forth the business 
of the day, and in all his words spoke the truth from his 
heart without favour. He spoke only what his conscience 
sanctioned, for he had known before the pangs that are 
the result of wrongdoing, and he did not wish a second 
time to do the thing his conscience condemned. The 
councillors also spoke, and lastly Chaka was given his 
opportunity to address the assembly. 

And he, son of Senzangakona, stood up, his dark- 
brown body plump and rounded and full—a mark for 
the eyes of all who saw him. And all the people, the tribe, 
gazed upon him and saw that he was the son of a chief, 
born to power and riches above other men. Those of 
his home were grieved to think how they had withstood 
him in their ignorance of his true nature; they saw that 
they had nearly rejected their chief. The companies of 
warriors and the young men gazed upon him and saw 
that he was handsome, with piercing eyes and a strong 
right arm, able and ready to wield a spear or shield, and 
when they remembered that he was indeed what he seemed 
to be they loved him the more. The chiefs gazed upon 
him and saw a chief in the making, a young shoot of great 
promise. The maidens gazed upon him and saw a leader 
in songs and dances, a young man of outstanding beauty, 
perfect, complete, without spot or stain, a paragon. And 


CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 103 
all who saw him knew at once that he was of the chief's 
village, accustomed to mix with men, a leader born to 
command mighty regiments. 

Chaka held himself straight, a head taller than other 
men, but he had breadth to set off his height. His 
shoulders were broad, and though he was so heavy in 
appearance there was none to equal him in quickness in 
running and jumping, and twisting and turning. 

Chaka stood up, and the eyes of the company were 
fixed upon him. He looked this way and that and then 
spoke. But few words were addressed to his own people: 
they were to accept him without reserve, with a whole 
heart; the past was the past and could be forgotten; new 
paths lay before them. Chaka was afraid to speak at length 
lest he should open again the wounds caused by the 
recent war in which Mfokazana had been killed. He 
passed on to speak of Dingiswayo, and told in full of how 
he was rescued and preserved by him and made a man. 
He expressed his thanks in words extolling Dingiswayo, 
with a heart full of gratitude. Next he spoke of the services 
he owed in return, of how he was bound to love and 
honour Dingiswayo for the kindnesses he had done him, 
and begged that the chief even now would continue to 
send him on his missions, and he would go. He must give 
him any work he wished him to do; that was Chaka's 
own desire, and if it was granted it would be shown that 
the chief had not cast him off. 

As Chaka spoke the hearts of all who heard him were 
affected. His words satisfied them, so that even those who 
retained any fingering dislike for him lost it and opened 
the doors of their hearts to him in joy. And Dingiswayo 
himself loved and trusted him more than ever when he 
heard Chaka's confession and listened to him telling the 
truth of their relationship as he himself knew it. To 


io4 CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 
Nandi it was all as a dream in the night. Noliwe saw a 
marvellous beauty in Chaka's countenance, such as was 
not upon earth, nor among the characters in story: she 
saw him as the perfection of manhood. The sound of his 
voice was to her as a delightful music, far surpassing the 
music of flute or harp. And the assembly applauded, 
saying, 'May there be rain. We are thine, lord, be thou 
our guard.' 

\/ On the following day Dingiswayo returned home and 
left Chaka to rule as his father's heir. Noliwe and her 
young companions remained for two more days, and it 
was then that she and Chaka came to a complete under¬ 
standing about their love. And when all who had come 
to the feast had departed Malunga began his work of 
doctoring the village and stablishing it, including Chaka's 
sleeping huts and the cattle kraals and everything that 
required to be doctored. 

Such was the return of Chaka to his home from which 
he had been driven out. 

After this Dingiswayo fought several wars alone with¬ 
out calling Chaka, in order that Chaka might become 
accustomed to his people, so that when there was severe 
fighting they might not desert him and leave him to be 
killed, nor join his enemies to ambush and kill him. He 
first called him when he went against Qwabe, whence he 
returned driving a very large herd of cattle. It was in 
this war that Chaka, the son of Senzangakona, first fought 
in person in the presence of his people; it was the first 
time they saw him in the fight. When they reached the 
capital Chaka did not pass on to his own home but 
stayed with Dingiswayo, where the sound of the spear 
banishes sleep, and the hearts of the young men dance 
with joy when they hear the praise songs. He stayed, 
also, in order to be near Noliwe. And the whole of this 


CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 105 
time he spent with his regiments, teaching them different 
kinds of drill. And above all, he taught them obedience; 
all must be done to the word of command, none must be 
either too quick or too slow. And Dingiswayo, who 
knew Chaka's character, saw that out of his love for war 
he had denied himself his home, and in order to please him 
Dingiswayo made war on the Amangwana, the people 
of Matiwane. And the regiments that Chaka's teaching 
had made supple went to this war. 

The day before they were to meet the enemy Chaka 
stirred the hearts of his warriors to their depths, and each 
man went forward determined to do better than his 
neighbour, to bring himself to the notice of Chaka and 
his chief. The Amangwana were a large tribe, but they 
had been weakened by constant war among themselves, 
and thus they gave an opening to their enemies. 

When Chaka had made an end of speaking with his 
warriors on the evening before the fight he went to his 
own sleeping-place near the chief, and there he found 
Ndlebe and Malunga, although he had not called them. 
Malunga said: T have come to thee on account of what 
Ndlebe will tell thee. I would not have come, for, as I 
have told thee, I do not desire to fight the wars of a man 
who hates me. But though I have come I have come to 
thee and not to him, for though the glory of victory will 
be his since his are the regiments, that is but a little thing. 
But thou, thou wilt win in this war what thou canst only 
gain when Dingiswayo is dead.' 

And then he asked Chaka if he had already spoken with 
his regiments. And Chaka said he had, and Malunga said: 
'This is a misfortune, for I wished to meet thee before 
thou didst give thy commands to the regiments. But it is 
no matter; thou canst return to them again. I have 
brought thee a medicine which thou must eat before thou 


io6 CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 
dost speak with the regiments. Thou must eat it and it 
must be in thy mouth when thou speakest. This medicine 
will have marvellous potency for the regiments: it is a 
medicine of persuasion.' 

Ndlebe suddenly stood up and said: T hear the noise 
of a mighty war, but the fighting will be brief. But the 
war is mighty because of its results, which I will tell to 
thee when we return.' 

Malunga gave Chaka the medicine and he ate it and 
swallowed some water and then returned to the regiments. 
It was midnight, and he found that some of them were 
asleep. He roused them and told them that it was not a 
time for sleep: it was a time for watchfulness, for per¬ 
chance the enemy might fall upon them when they were 
sunk in sleep. And he said: 'My comrades, I am much 
afeared. I cannot sleep or have any peace of heart. I have 
already told you that those with whom ye will meet are 
men and not children. And I repeat, ye must know that 
ye will be facing death. Whosoever is afraid let him 
return straightway; there is no compulsion. But all who 
stay must understand that they may not turn back, what¬ 
ever comes. They must devote themselves, and either 
die with their chief or conquer with him; but they must 
not flee. That is the most terrifying sight: men fleeing 
when the fight presses them hard, so that their chief is 
taken. Think on Zwide. Let all who are afeared stand 
and depart.' None stood up, but all who heard him 
felt their hearts swell. The tears trickled from their eyes 
in the darkness of the night and they wondered what 
this war would be, of which Chaka spoke so earnesdy to 
them. And they said: 'Where we are commanded to go, 
we will go, even if it be to death.' Their courage rose 
and they watched for the dawn with a great longing to 
embark upon the game of battle. They were determined 


CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 107 
to prevent by all their means Chaka from ever speaking 
to them in this wise again. 

At daybreak the battle was joined with terrible fierce¬ 
ness. The village of Matiwane was on a height, and the 
women and old men stood outside to watch the fight. 
Ndlebe went by a path where they would not see him, 
and quickly set fire to the village, and then his swift feet 
speedily brought him back to the fight. 

In a short while the Amangwana heard heart-rending 
cries from their home, and when they turned their heads 
they saw a column of smoke rising up from their burning 
village. They saw also their wives and children swarming 
over the rocky heights which they completely covered, 
as they fled. Some were fleeing to the bush, others to the 
ditches and hills. Then the Amangwana lost heart and 
their knees failed them, for when an enemy comes round 
to the rear and attacks the children then hope is at an end, 
and they fled to rescue their children. 

Dingiswayo captured all the cattle of the people of 
Matiwane and also the small stock. And where they en¬ 
camped for the night, while he was thanking Chaka for 
his cunning, he also repeated his advice that Chaka should 
seek a wife: he would provide the marriage cattle for 
him. And Chaka answered that he had no thought of 
marriage, for he loved one woman only, and it was im¬ 
possible for him to win her. Therefore he had renounced 
her. 

'How dost thou mean "impossible" ?' said Dingiswayo. 

T mean that she is the daughter of a mighty chief, 
before whom I, Chaka, am as naught.' 

'Where is her home ? Whose child is she ?' 

'Her home is—is—with. . . .' 

'Why dost thou say "is—is"? Canst thou not speak? 
Is she a sister of mine ?' 


io8 CHAKA IS MADE CHIEF IN HIS FATHER'S STEAD 

'Yea, chief.' And Chaka's forehead burned as he said it. 

'Which?' 

'Pardon me, chief. I fear to tell her name, for thou 
dost love her exceedingly.' 

'Is it Noliwe?' 

'Yea, chief.' 

'Hast thou spoken with her ? I myself will not compel 
her. It is thou who must speak. If she consent let her 
consent. If she refuse let her refuse. I wish her to do as 
her heart desires.' 

'Truly, already we know each other's will, chief.' 

T understand. Thou dost fear to ask me for her. Nay, 
it is well. But if thou marry my sister, thou and none 
other must provide the marriage cattle, for I cannot give 
the cattle together with my own sister.' The reader can 
imagine for himself how great was Chaka's joy. Dingi- 
swayo was a chief who loved his own jest and he told all 
the warriors that Noliwe was affianced to Chaka, and 
they rejoiced exceedingly, for they saw that now Chaka 
would belong to them completely. For 'the marriage ox 
produces union'. 

But when they came to the capital Chaka heard that 
his mother was ill and he passed on his way. He did not 
even stop to sleep, for his mother was very dear to him 
on account of all she had done for him. When they 
reached his home Ndlebe said: T hear that Dingiswayo 
will not live more than ten days. Be prepared. This 
is the matter which I said I would tell thee when we 
returned.' 


Chapter Fifteen 


ZWIDE KILLS DINGISWAYO 
CHAKA SEIZES THE CHIEFTAINSHIP OF 
DINGISWAYO 

HEN Dingiswayo came to his home he allowed 



v v his regiments and warriors to disperse that they 
might go to their homes to rest. And then Zwide, who 
was still smarting from the shame of his defeat, led his 
men to battle without issuing any challenge. Not until 
Zwide was at the Umfolosi did Dingiswayo hear of it, and 
then he left the capital to meet him with the few men he 
had at hand, in order to prevent him from entering the 
capital. The alarm was raised and the regiments were 
hastily called to come to battle, to their chief. Even the 
few men Dingiswayo had with him were tired from 
fighting against Matiwane's tribe and from pursuing the 
cattle they had received as booty. And for this reason the 
fight went against them from the beginning, and Dingi¬ 
swayo their chief was captured. Zwide when he reached 
his home killed Dingiswayo. He cut off his head, pierced 
it with a stick and sent it to Dingiswayo's village by night. 
Those who were sent with it planted it in the great court 
and leaned his shield against the stick which pierced his 
head. And when the people came out from their huts 
they were terrified to see what had been done to their 


chief. 


As soon as Chaka heard that Dingiswayo had been 
captured he acted at once, and sent swift runners to Zwide 
to entreat him not to kill Dingiswayo: he would ransom 
him, even if he had to sacrifice everything he had. But 
these messengers of his never reached Zwide, because 
Ndlebe and Malunga, who were in the capital, quickly 
spread the report that Dingiswayo had been killed (but 


no ZWIDE KILLS DINGISWAYO, CHAKA SEIZES 
actually he was still alive at that time). Thus the mes¬ 
sengers thought that it would be of no avail for them to 
go. Chaka came with all his men in great haste, and when 
he reached the capital he heard the sad tidings of the 
death of Dingiswayo. 

All the regiments remained awake, expectant, till dawn, 
after their chief had been captured, and not only the 
regiments but all the men of fighting age as well. Chaka 
was in a state of bewilderment and amaze: he did not 
know what he could do. As a result of the death of his 
chief he found himself in extreme difficulty, bereft of the 
one whom he had trusted, with whom he had taken 
refuge in the time of peril, under whom he had become 
a man. He saw clearly that those who had been dis¬ 
satisfied when he had been made chief in his father's 
stead would now attack him, for the one who had placed 
him where he was was dead. And, above all, these regi¬ 
ments of the chief—he saw clearly that their period of 
submission to him was past. 

In his dread lest the day of his death was now at hand 
Chaka went down to the river and drew out a reed and 
peeled it, calling upon Isanusi with a heart full of sorrow. 
When he came up from the river he was afraid even to go 
to the village where men were, and he was also afraid that 
Isanusi might tarry until the danger was upon him. When 
he reached the village Ndlebe came to him. He was 
covered with mud, but full of a wonderful joy. He 
entered a hut with Chaka, but he was in such a state of 
excitement that he could not even speak, but only caressed 
his battle-axe continually, and gazed at Chaka's face in 
joy. Meanwhile, a pitiful dirge was heard in the village, 
of people mourning for their chief, killed in his prime by 
a jackal like Zwide. 

Before Ndlebe could speak Malunga suddenly appeared. 


THE CHIEFTAINSHIP OF DINGISWAYO hi 

He, too, was full of an overflowing joy, andhe said: c Chaka, 
son of a chief, I see thou art sorrowful; but this is not a 
time for fear and sorrow, but for joy—great joy. Those 
who weep may weep: it is right that they should mourn 
for their chief. But thou shouldst rejoice, for the death of 
a chief is the beginning of the reign of his successor, and 
the successor of Dingiswayo is—Chaka.' And then Chaka 
took heart, and plucked up his courage, for he knew that 
what was foretold by the companions of Isanusi was 
always fulfilled. Malunga continued and said: T gave 
thee a short while ago a medicine for thee to eat when 
thou didst speak with the warriors. That medicine was 
prepared against this very day. The hearts and minds of 
all the warriors who heard thee at that time are with thee; 
they cleave to thee, and they will not consent to be 
commanded by any other but thee. Speak, Ndlebe. I 
have ended.' 

And Ndlebe said: 'Zwide cometh to battle, he is on the 
path. The multitude of his men is terrible. His design is 
to kill man, woman, and child, that the Abatetwa may be 
wiped off the face of the earth.' At that moment Isanusi 
suddenly appeared in their midst. As he entered he said: 
'Chaka, pluck up thy courage: I am here. There is no 
harm that can happen to thee. Ndlebe, go thou out, and 
cry aloud to the multitude, and proclaim that Zwide will 
attack at dawn: the people must prepare themselves. 
Malunga, hasten and prepare the regiments with medi¬ 
cines as thou dost know how, with speed. And thou, 
Chaka, strip thyself.' 

Chaka's grief and fear were instantly gone when 
Isanusi came. He rejoiced exceedingly and joyfully 
stripped himself, and Isanusi worked upon him to prepare 
him for the mighty task he was about to undertake that 
very night. And before he had made an end the regiments 


112 ZWIDE KILLS DINGISWAYO, CHAKA SEIZES 

from without, when they heard that Zwide was already 
marching to battle again, came rushing to seek Chaka 
and to tell him that they looked to him alone to defend 
them from their enemies. 

And when Isanusi had made an end Chaka went out to 
where they were seeking for him, and the regiments cried 
in one voice, saying: 'Thou art now Dingiswayo. We 
all give thee his chieftainship and bid thee guard and 
defend us. We are thy people. Thus do we give thee the 
chieftainship of Dingiswayo. There is need for haste, for 
perchance thou has not yet heard that Zwide will come at 
dawn and his intention is that none of us shall escape. 
Our eyes look to thee to lead the regiments as thou wast 
wont to do when their master was alive. Thou hast 
taught us; we obey thee and we hearken to thee. And 
to-day we will obey thee not as our leader only, but as our 
chief. One small condition we make. It is that thou wilt 
indeed marry Noliwe, for Dingiswayo did tell us that 
thou art affianced to her, and thus our tribe shall be one 
with thine.' 

There was great confusion and disorder when the 
regiments made Chaka their chief, and false reports were 
all the time being heard that Zwide was at hand, that he 
had arrived. And all knew his cruelty. The reader can 
imagine for himself what were Chaka's thoughts that 
night—Chaka, whose one desire was the chieftainship. 
His life had undergone many changes, because of many 
happenings. He spent the night in preparing the regi¬ 
ments, preparing them against the morrow. 

Zwide came on to battle and the multitude of his men 
was terrible. Even the old were there, whose limbs were 
failing them, brought only by a desire for cattle. The 
young also were there, of tender age, who for the first 
time were wielding a spear and taking part in war: they 


THE CHIEFTAINSHIP OF DINGISWAYO iij 

trusted solely to their fleetness and youth to enable them 
to capture the cattle, for they did not think there would 
be any fighting, as the Abatetwa were without a chief. 

When Zwide had crossed the White Umfolosi at a 
point opposite Mbelebeleni, Chaka took command of all 
the warriors and young men, leaving only the reserves 
behind. He saw that Zwide's forces greatly outnumbered 
his, and therefore he commanded that the villages should 
be burnt and the mealies and kafir-corn destroyed and 
burnt. The old men and the women and children drove 
away the cattle and fled with them. The battle was joined 
and Zwide was thrust back over the river and then Chaka's 
men followed along the path after their chief. They 
continued the pursuit thus for three days, fighting all the 
while. Chaka's intention was to wear out Zwide's men by 
starvation, for in those days there was no such thing as 
carrying provisions for the march. And that was why he 
burnt the mealies and kafir-corn, so that Zwide might 
have nothing to eat. 

On the third day, when Zwide's men were limp with 
hunger, Chaka prepared to give battle. That night he 
slaughtered many oxen and his regiments ate meat. The 
oxen were slaughtered with a purpose, so that if Chaka 
were defeated Zwide would win no booty, and if he 
conquered he would take Zwide's cattle. That night 
Isanusi made a medicine rope of grass to lure Zwide's 
men to destruction. 

Shortly before dawn the son of Senzangakona was 
wandering about in great tumult of mind, with his 
nostrils distended, scenting the battle afar off, and peer¬ 
ing out into the darkness. And his warriors quailed when 
they saw him thus. And when Chaka spoke to his men 
his voice was one that compelled, so that each warrior 
resolved in his heart to obey his commands, and said: 


I 


114 2WIDE KILLS DINGISWAYO, CHAKA SEIZES 

'Thus will I do, even if to fail means death. I will still 
endeavour to fulfil the command.' 

When the night had altogether departed and the sun 
had risen Zwide fortified the approaches to the high level 
ground on which he had camped, and nothing could be 
seen but men in shoals crowded together. And when the 
sun began to rise above the horizon Chaka stood up and 
looked this way and that and raised his small spear and 
short shield (the spear that was filled with the poison of 
snakes). And the commanders of his regiments gathered 
to him. Swiftly, in the twinkling of an eye, as they gazed 
upon him, a whirlwind seemed to take possession of his 
countenance, and he became jet-black and his eyes a fiery 
red. Sweat trickled down from his nostrils, white like 
milk, in large drops. He sent forward all the grown men 
who had fought before and all the youths, and as soon as 
they had joined with Zwide he sent forward two regiments 
to go round the hill to the right and two more to go to the 
left. And they met in the rear of Zwide, and thus he was 
surrounded. And the old men and the young among 
Zwide's forces, when they saw that there would be fight¬ 
ing although they had not expected it, took to hurried 
flight. 

And when those two divisions had joined together 
Chaka again raised his spear and pointed with it to the 
enemy and was silent for a long while, gazing towards 
them. He heard only the dull thud of spears entering the 
bodies of the enemy and the groans of dying men. And 
when he saw his own men dying and their numbers 
diminishing, he said: 'Yonder is your enemy, he who 
killed Dingiswayo. Go and slay him.' Then he sent 
forward all his reserves and remained with Isanusi alone. 
On that occasion Chaka commanded his men not to throw 
their spears, but to use them to stab. And the fight was 


THE CHIEFTAINSHIP OF DINGISWAYO iij 

joined with terrible ferocity, and when less than an hour 
had passed the bodies of the dead encumbered the ground, 
and the regiments drew off and then returned to the 
attack. And when they drew back a second time the 
number of Zwide's men on the ground was equal to 
the number of the living. How Ndlebe and Malunga 
fought! How the spear stabbed and killed! 

In the early part of the morning, at the time when the 
cattle are at ease in the pasture grounds, Isanusi became 
filled with rage and, leaving Chaka alone on the hill, he 
rushed into the fight, holding his shield by the thong. 
The moment he came the enemy were felled to the ground 
with incredible speed. His companions Ndlebe and 
Malunga came to his side and wrought terrible havoc. 
At midday Chaka ran forward and entered the fight, and 
when his warriors saw him they plucked up their courage 
and fought manfully.' 

Zwide escaped as by a miracle only. Chaka pursued 
him, drove him across the river, and still continued the 
pursuit. The next day he followed him to his home, the 
village of Nongoma, where the women of the tribe had 
been left to gather great quantities of firewood with which 
to cook the cattle of the Abatetwa when their menfolk 
returned. And when they saw Zwide coming in flight 
with only a few men remaining they were frightened. 
But when Chaka's regiments appeared a loud cry was 
heard in Nongoma, the cry of the women and children 
and the old men, begging not to be left behind in the 
flight. 

Chaka pursued Zwide with intent to kill him and drove 
him out of his home, and he fled to Bopeli where he died 
of exhaustion and a broken heart, for he had seen his 
mighty tribe scattered in a single day and more than 
scattered—destroyed. Chaka commanded that the people 


X16 ZWIDE KILLS DINGISWAYO, CHAKA SEIZES 
of Zwide should be killed—men, women, and children; 
the young men only were to be spared. And when he 
returned from his pursuit of Zwide he sent word that all 
the young men of Zwide's tribe who survived should 
come to him and he would place them in his regiments 
and would not kill any of them. 

When the battle began at sunrise Zwide's forces 
numbered many thousands. Chaka began the battle with 
ten regiments and Zwide with seventeen, not counting on 
either side the older men and the youths. A regiment con¬ 
sisted of two thousand men, and when the sun set all the 
men in Zwide's regiments were dead bodies, and Chaka 
had only three regiments remaining. That is to say, in 
this battle more than forty thousand men perished. 

When the sun rose that day there was no tribe that 
surpassed Zwide's in power or numbers. When it set this 
mighty tribe had been wiped off the face of the earth and 
their villages were empty ruins. 

I do not think that anyone's life was ever so involved 
in mystery as was Chaka's. Dingiswayo's life is obscure 
and hidden, but when the facts are known they can be 
easily understood. But with Chaka all is mysterious and 
incredible right up to this point in the story. A few 
evenings before he had been in terror when he heard of 
the death of Dingiswayo, his protector. He feared that he 
would be killed, or at least deprived of the chieftainship 
for which he had striven so hard. And then, the night 
before the battle he was going hither and thither among 
his mighty regiments, who had set him up as their chief 
and commander; it was Chaka alone to whom they looked 
among all those numbers. The following day, when the 
sun rose, he was in command of all the regiments, com¬ 
manding them as his own and not for another. And at 
sunset the same day he was their chief, who had conquered 


THE CHIEFTAINSHIP OF DINGISWAYO 117 

in war and had scattered peoples of greater strength than 
his own. At sunset he was a chief among chiefs, and the 
tribes trembled before him. A sign that the tribes trembled 
and feared him was that when Matiwane heard that 
Chaka had scattered Zwide and his mighty tribe he fled 
in haste and gat him up to the mountains. 


Chapter Sixteen 

THE NEW TRIBE NAME 

I SANUSI and his companions were sitting with Chaka, 
speaking of his past life, and Isanusi said: 'To-day, 
Chaka, all has been changed. Thou art now Chaka the 
chief, no longer Chaka the vagabond that I rescued under 
the bush. But lately thou wast calling upon me in fear, and 
to-day those of whom thou wast affrighted are themselves 
afeared—afeared of thee/ And Chaka said: 'Mine was no 
common fear; danger and destruction threatened when I 
called upon thee. But when I called where wast thou, 
for thou didst come at nightfall that same day and thy 
home is very far as thou hast told me ? ' 

T was already on the way when thou didst call, for I 
knew thou wouldst be in trouble that month—nay, that 
very day/ 

'How didst thou know, since Ndlebe and Malunga 
who are acquainted with thy home were here with me ? ' 
'Forget not that I am Isanusi/ And here Chaka passed 
on, and began to speak of other matters. Zwide was a 
coward to have killed Dingiswayo, for Chaka had sent a 
promise to ransom him that he might not be killed. And 
Isanusi said: 'How wouldst thou have procured so many 
cattle, for thou hast none that are thine own ? ' T should 
have taken those of Dingiswayo and ransomed him with 
his own cattle. And if they had not been sufficient the 
people would have contributed to ransom their chief.' 

'What was the answer Zwide gave thee ? ' 'He hath 
never answered me. When I came to the chief's village 
the report was that the chief had been killed, although I 
hear now, that he was not yet dead at that time.' Ndlebe 
and Malunga spoke together and then said: 'We hindered 
thy messengers from going and it was we who spread 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 119 

the report that Dingiswayo had been killed, although he 
was still living.' 

And Chaka wondered when he heard them speak thus, 
and asked the cause, and they said: 'Thou must not forget 
that we are here because of thee. We came to win for 
thee the chieftainship, and our desire is that thou mayest 
find it soon that we may receive our cattle, our reward, 
and return home. If thy messengers had gone to Zwide, 
perchance Dingiswayo would not have been killed, and 
then thou wouldst not yet have been chief. Now thou 
art a chief and there is none greater, thou art greater 
than all; but thou hast not yet won the full chieftain¬ 
ship that we hear by Isanusi thou dost seek. But 
to-day we can have confidence that all will be made 
smooth; all will come to pass as thou dost wish.' When 
Chaka heard these words he wondered at the devotion of 
these men. 

T hear,' said Isanusi, 'that thou hast taken to thee 
Noliwe. Dost thou wish to marry her ? ' 

T love her with all my heart, and I will marry her. 
Furthermore, I am compelled to marry her, whether I 
wish it or no, for I have promised it to the regiments of 
Dingiswayo.' 

'But if thy promise did not compel thee what wouldst 
thou do ? ' T would marry her because I love her, and 
also I had already taken her when I made my promise.' 
T, in thy place, would not marry. Marriage is a hindrance 
to a chief, and breeds dissension in his house. Remember 
how it was in thy father's house. Children contend 
against one another without love; blood is spilt and lives 
are lost. It is better that a man, and above all a chief, 
should marry when his hairs are grey, that he may be 
about to die of old age when his children are coming to 
manhood. Thus will it not be with him as with Jobe 


120 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 
and his sons; there will be one chief and not many; for a 
multitude of children diminish the might of the chieftain¬ 
ship that passes to the heir. But the matter is for thee 
alone to decide; we have no concern in it. We have only 
given thee our advice.' Isanusi said these words in jest, 
but they planted a seed in Chaka's heart that was to grow, 
for he was never infatuated about women. 

Isanusi continued and said: 'I myself, Chaka, will now 
go forward: I cannot stay for I have much work to do. 
But do thou remain here with my companions. Love 
and trust them, and they in turn will love and trust thee. 
Ndlebe, thy chief work is to scent out tidings and secrets. 
There is no evil design that can be planned, even in an 
ant-bear hole, and come to fruition without Ndlebe's 
knowledge. And Malunga's work is to prepare thy 
regiments with medicines when thou dost go to war. He 
hath the right medicines and thy regiments shall never 
be overcome if they are doctored by him. But before I 
depart I wish to ask thee one question only, and do thou 
answer me with deliberation and not in haste. When 
I found thee in the wilds thou wast longing for the 
chieftainship of thy father which had escaped thee 
because of thy step-mothers. And after that thou didst 
long for fame. These two things have I found for thee. 
And later thou didst say that if I could make thee a chief 
equal to Dingiswayo, owing obedience to none, thou 
wouldst rejoice. And then I told thee that, if thou didst 
wish it, I could enable thee to win a chieftainship even 
greater than that of Dingiswayo, and to-day it hath come 
to pass. All things thou didst ask of me I strove with all 
my power to enable thee to win, and thou hast won them. 
This is my question: Art thou satisfied now, or dost 
thou still wish for greater things ? ' 

T understand fully thy first question, Isanusi, and will 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 121 

straightway answer it. Thy second question I do not 
understand so well: it seems that thou hast yet other 
means of advancing me at thy disposal, if I desire it.' 

'So it is.' 

'Dost thou say that thou canst enable me to win 
greater blessings than those I have already won, and a 
greater chieftainship than I have already ? ' Chaka asked 
the question in astonishment, for at that time a chieftain¬ 
ship greater than his had never been known. Isanusi 
instead of answering at once became sorrowful and 
looked sadly at Chaka and said: 'Thou dost pain me, for 
I have now worked with thee for more than a year, and 
never yet deceived thee or said that I could do a thing 
when I could not; but none the less thou dost still speak 
as if thou didst not know me.' 

'Pardon me if I have caused thee pain; it was my 
wonder only that made me speak thus. I bid thee, master, 
proceed with thy work for me, and exert to the uttermost 
thy wisdom and thy power.' 

'Dost thou still desire a greater chieftainship and greater 
fame than this thou hast ? ' 

'Yea.' 

'So be it; I have heard. But thou on thy side must 
know that my price is ever increasing. For the chieftain¬ 
ship of thy father which thou hast won the price was the 
full fee of a witch-doctor. For the chieftainship thou hast 
to-day it is double, and for a greater chieftainship three 
times as much again. It is a great price, but to a chief it 
is nothing.' 

'To me thy price is nothing. Nothing will I spare if 
thou dost bring me whither I would be.' 

T will but leave my commands with my companions 
that they may put all in order for thee. But I must tell thee 
the whole truth. In some respects it is a difficult matter 


122 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 
to win the chieftainship thou dost desire, such a chief¬ 
tainship that if a man were to leave the place where thou 
now art, in his youth, on foot, and go to the bounds of 
thy territory, he would be an old man before he returned. 
It is a difficult matter, for it is thou who must provide 
the right medicine, and not I. And perchance thou wilt 
fail and be unable to bring it to us the witch-doctors. 
If thou hast not sufficient courage there is nothing that 
I can do.' 

'What manner of medicine is this that I, Chaka, should 
fear to give it thee, if I knew where it was ? ' 

'I say once more it is a difficult matter, for if thou 
desirest a chieftainship of this nature, before thou dost go 
to battle the food of thy warriors must be mixed with 
medicines compounded of the blood of the one thou dost 
love most dearly, with whom thy thoughts ever dwell by 
day and by night, the one thou dost love more than any 
other on earth. With the blood of such a one thou canst 
win the chieftainship of which I have spoken; there is 
no other means of which I know. I know of a chief in 
my land who desired a chieftainship of this kind, and he 
laid the foundations of his city with the blood of his 
first-born son and strengthened the gates of it with the 
blood of his youngest son; he sacrificed all his children. 
Now thou must take thought, and tell me thy decision 
and intention.' Chaka made as though to answer, but 
Isanusi restrained him with his hand and said that he 
must first take thought without haste. Then he left him 
and after a long while returned. 'Hast thou taken careful 
thought? ' 'Yea,' said Chaka. 'Dost thou understand 
well what thou art doing ? ' Chaka affirmed that he did. 
And then Isanusi said: 'Tell me, that I may learn thy 
decision.' 

T, Chaka, had no need of deep thought. I have 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 123 

decided upon the chieftainship of which thou hast spoken. 
But I have no children and I do not know if the blood of 
my mother or my brothers would be sufficient. But if it 
is, I will give it you that ye may compound your medicines 
of it.' 

'But among these whom thou hast promised there is 
not included the one thou dost love with the love of 
which I spoke. Her thou hast passed over. Think of her 
and tell us thy decision.' 

'Apart from these, the one I love is Noliwe—' 

'So be it. Think well which thou dost desire. The 
chieftainship thou hast, with Noliwe, or a greater chieftain¬ 
ship without Noliwe. I tell thee clearly that a greater 
chieftainship than this, the greatest of all, is possible for 
thee, but thou wilt not win it unless thou kill Noliwe, 
thou thyself, with thy own hand.' Isanusi smiled and 
said: 'To-day, Chaka, we are teaching thee the highest 
kind of witchcraft, when men kill their children or their 
parents so that the spirits may receive them and prosper 
them.' And again Isanusi smiled, mockingly, and said 
that Chaka should deliberate upon it for a whole day and 
give his answer at nightfall. 

And when Chaka was alone, thinking about Noliwe 
and the chieftainship of which he had been told, he saw 
that Noliwe's life was but a little thing and he comforted 
himself with the thought that when he had attained this 
chieftainship he would be able to procure other women 
as beautiful or perhaps even one far more beautiful than 
Noliwe. Thus he determined to sacrifice her for the sake 
of the medicines. And as soon as they met together in 
the evening, Chaka said: 'Truth to tell, there is nothing 
that I love on earth except only the chieftainship, war, and 
my regiments. And therefore I will give thee Noliwe, that 
all hindrances may be removed from my path to the chief- 


124 THE new tribe name 

tainship. I have deliberated and have made an end; the 

medicines shall be compounded of the blood of Noliwe.' 

Isanusi and his companions remained silent until 
Chaka had finished speaking, and then Isanusi said: 'I 
trust, Chaka, that thou hast understood me well. I do 
not bind thee in any way, but leave the whole decision 
to thee, for we witch-doctors do but give a man the 
medicine he desires, even if it brings his destruction. We 
are the purveyors only, nothing more. We trade in 
medicines to procure cattle; those who buy from us have 
the choice of the medicine they desire. Understand well; 
there is no compulsion, no obligation. The decision is 
as thou alone dost wish.' 

T understand thee well. Thou hast told me the price 
of the chieftainship and I will pay it, for I desire it.' But 
none the less Isanusi refused to begin the work imme¬ 
diately : Chaka had not deliberated sufficiently. And then 
he gave him a full year in which to confirm his decision, 
so that he might not wish to turn back too late when the 
work had begun. But Chaka entreated that the time 
might be shortened and they agreed upon nine months. 

When Isanusi was about to depart he said: 'There is 
a small matter that I have forgotten. Thy tribe-name is 
not a pleasant one. Why dost thou not reject it, Chaka, 
and choose for thyself a beautiful, fine-sounding name, 
fit for the great chief thou art and thy mighty tribe ? ' 

'What manner of name ? ' 

'Thou thyself must choose. Dost thou think that 
tribe-names also are procured from the witch-doctors ? 
They are for the chiefs to choose. But thy present name 
is not well sounding.' Chaka agreed that the name of 
his tribe was a poor one and did not sound well, and 
at that moment there was a low rumble of thunder from 
a cloud over towards the west, close to the mountains 


THE NEW TRIBE NAME 125 

where rain was already falling. And Chaka heard the 
thunder and heeded it carefully; Isanusi also heard it. 
Then Chaka looked upwards, smiling, and said: 'Thou 
wast right, Isanusi. To-day I will find for myself a 
tribe-name that is well sounding, such as none other hath 
ever had.' 

'What name ? ' asked Isanusi. Chaka smiled and laughed 
aloud, until the tears came into his eyes; though he was not 
a man who often laughed: and he said: 'Zulu. Amazulu ' 
(Heaven and the People of Heaven). Isanusi and his 
companions nearly died of laughter, and Isanusi asked: 
'Why dost thou choose this name ? ' 

'Amazulu. Because I am great, I am even as this cloud 
that has thundered, that is irresistible. I, too, look upon the 
tribes and they tremble. If I fall upon any they die, even 
as Zwide. Zulu. Amazulu.' And they all laughed again 
in astonishment, and we, too, must wonder at the arrogance 
and ambition of this Kafir who could compare his 
greatness to that of the Gods. 'Zulu. Amazulu.' Isanusi 
went away repeating these words to himself. 

All the warriors who had taken part in the war were 
still there—they had not yet scattered to their homes—and 
Chaka told them the new tribe-name, the well-sounding 
name which he had devised for them, the name of 
Amazulu. He said that to-day they had vanquished all 
their enemies and therefore he had sought for them this 
well-sounding name. 

And all the men and the regiments applauded, which 
showed that they rejoiced in this new name. 

We have already said that when Chaka lived at his 
home there were evil reports about him. It was said that 
he was not a man like other men, that he was the child of 
a tikoloshi and that was the reason why Senzangakona had 
driven him out with his mother. And now when he was 


126 THE NEW TRIBE NAME 

chief people again began to speak about him, but now they 
praised him. His beautiful countenance, his tall figure, 
his fearless heart, and his leadership in war all bore 
witness that Chaka had been sent by the Gods to men. 
It was said that a heart like Chaka's and a spirit like his 
were not merely human; they were the heart and spirit 
of Nkulunkulu himself. 

On the evening of the day on which Zwide's forces 
were scattered, the regiments and the young men and the 
women were all saying: 'This is the real Chaka. It 
were better that those who fight against him should join 
battle first with the Gods and overcome them, and then 
they could come against Chaka.' We have already spoken 
of Noliwe, and now when the two of them were about to 
be married report went that they were both messengers 
of Nkulunkulu. 

When Ndlebe and Malunga heard these sayings they 
confirmed them and said that Chaka had been sent by 
Nkulunkulu to teach his children war. Their words were 
easily believed, and found credence because they agreed 
with what was already in the people's minds. And Chaka's 
spear helped to strengthen this conviction among his 
people, for it was made of an enchanted rod; it was filled 
with medicines and wrought marvels. This tribe-name of 
Amazulu also added to the belief that Chaka was more 
than human. People knelt and prayed to Chaka and 
Noliwe. This pleased Chaka, but Noliwe was sad because 
she knew that she was still a woman like other women. 

But there was difficulty about their marriage. Who was 
to arrange for the feast and who was to receive the 
marriage cattle ? All who had a right to receive them were 
in their graves. For this reason the marriage was delayed, 
and the delay delighted Chaka, because of the plan he had 
conceived with Isanusi. 


Chapter Seventeen 

REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 

B EFORE we go further in our account of the chieftain¬ 
ship of Chaka we must first tell of the state of the 
tribe of the Abatetwa when Dingiswayo acquired the 
chieftainship and of its state when he died. 

Dingiswayo acquired the chieftainship when his tribe 
was sunk in ignorance. The men sat at home, doing 
nothing. There was no way by which they could possess 
cattle. It was Dingiswayo who came and changed all that. 
He gathered together those who knew how to make the 
skins of animals supple and sew them together. He built 
them a village to work in where the skins were sold, and 
this village soon resembled a large mart for selling skins. 
He did the same with workers in wood and horn, and 
encouraged them in .their work by giving prizes to those 
who did better than others. And the tribe was imbued 
with a passion for trade and work, and not work only, but 
good, creditable work. And the farmer, too, who reaped 
better crops than other men year by year received a prize 
for his farming. Dingiswayo also opened up the route 
to Delagoa Bay, where there was much trade. The women, 
too, worked hard to fashion beautiful well-made pots in 
order to secure prizes. Further, he tried by every means 
in his power to instil a spirit of humanity into the tribe 
so that they should not wrong each other without cause. 
But there he was unsuccessful. It became evident that he 
was trying to teach them something that was too high for 
them, that was superhuman in their eyes. The land 
prospered; there was peace and plenty under Dingiswayo. 
Such was the state of affairs when Chaka acquired the 
chieftainship. 

After Chaka had made reforms in his clan, he gathered 


128 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 
together the young men of Zwide's tribe who had been 
scattered, and also those who had paid homage to him, 
and said to them: 'To-day ye have no chief, and ye are 
no longer a tribe. Ye are deserving of death, because 
ye have killed my chief Dingiswayo who treated you in 
every way mercifully. But I will not kill you unless ye 
wish it. I give you the choice of two things. If ye 
will renounce your clan and your language and join my 
regiments and become Amazulu, ye shall live. If ye 
refuse, then I will kill you all this very day, this very 
hour, when I have heard your answer.' 

The men were not at all unwilling to enter the regi¬ 
ments of Chaka in order to save their lives. Chaka united 
them with the Amazulu, his chief object being to make 
them Amazulu in heart and soul. He also placed some of 
his lieutenants in charge of Zwide's land to tend it for him. 

Chaka ever since his youth had had few desires and 
his one and only desire was still for the chieftainship and 
the glory of it. By now he was very famous, he was a 
great chief. Was he then going to be satisfied ? Far from 
it. By now he had come to the top, but he still wanted 
something—he did not know what. Then it was that 
Chaka first began to think of war without let or hindrance, 
for everything was in his power. 

He looked upon all the tribes to the north that were 
within his ken and beyond, and he desired that his sway 
should extend even to them. He looked upon the tribes 
on the coast towards the south, he saw their towns and 
villages, their chiefs and sub-chiefs, their land adorned 
with townships living in peace, and he smiled to himself. 
He lifted up his eyes to the hills, and looked upon the 
west and he saw tribe upon tribe of Basuto and Bechuana 
dwelling in peace untroubled by anything. Then he 
laughed and said to himself: 'My sway shall extend from 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 129 
here where I am, and spread over the land even to 
the uttermost limits of it. There shall be one chief 
instead of many and that chief myself.' As he said this, 
he was filled with a wonderful happiness, his young 
blood coursed through his veins, he felt as if he could 
bring about all the changes at that very moment. Then 
it was that he sacrificed his conscience for his chieftainship, 
so that he forgot Noliwe. 

First of all Chaka built himself a capital, which because 
of the terrible might of its lord was called Umgungundh- 
lovu (as it were 'The Elephants Abode'). 

Chaka built his capital to the south of the great river 
of Folosi (that is to say where the Black Umfolosi has 
already joined with the White Umfolosi) and to the north 
of the river Mhlatuzai. He chose the spot because of the 
abundance of water there, so that such an important city 
might be surrounded with water and with thick bush, 
and the rafters and firewood might be procurable close 
at hand. And he chose the spot because of its beauty. 

The chiefs of the Basuto are accustomed to dwell on 
top of a hill or on its slopes or near a natural stronghold. 
But Chaka built his town on low flat ground, or rather on 
a slight slope. 

It was a town of remarkable size, such as had never 
been seen before. The number of its inhabitants, too, was 
remarkable, and the power of its lord. It was round in 
shape, and was built as follows. 

A large broad road, sufficient to allow a great number 
of people or regiments or oxen to pass down it without 
crowding, cut straight through the capital from east to 
west. The second road was similar and cut through the 
city from south to north. These two roads were beauti¬ 
fully straight, laid out with wonderful care and the most 
careful precision. There were many other small roads 


K 


i3o REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 
traversing the city, but we speak of these two because 
they were the roads of the chief and of the tribe. 

In the middle of the city there was a courtyard of 
enormous size. It was beautifully flat and level. That was 
where the regiments drilled and where they received the 
orders of their chief when they were going to war, and bid 
him adieu. There, too, the armies met their chief when 
they returned from a fight, to greet him and to tell him 
of what they had done; their chief could also see how 
many of them had come back. It was there that the oxen 
captured in war were placed for the chief and the whole 
city to look at: such oxen came there in great herds. In the 
courtyard, too, the principal feasts of the tribe were held. 
There, too, important state functions took place, and the 
glory of Chaka was manifested there on all great occasions. 

To the east of this courtyard, but south of the road 
going towards the east, lived the councillors of the chief 
and his lieutenants and witch-doctors. In the same spot 
Ndlebe had his hut. Near here was the kraal for Chaka's 
own cattle—cattle for milking, for eating, for racing, 
extra fine choice cattle, cattle for the feasts: that is to say 
all cattle that had good coats and were of a good colour. 
All that kraaled in this kraal were cattle indeed; they 
recognized the songs of praise sung by their herdboys 
in their honour. 

Near this kraal was a tall palisade, made of trees 
planted in the ground. This was the court of the chief. 
It had two entrances, and by day and by night two or 
more warriors stood there fully armed. None passed in 
or out without their permission. When Chaka was 
holding court every one who entered shouted his greeting 
as soon as he appeared at the entrance. His spear and 
shield remained with the guards at the door, together 
with his blanket. Then, throwing himself down on his 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 131 
face, he crawled forward on his belly. When he reached 
the middle of the court he began to greet the chief with 
the appropriate greeting 'Bayete'. When he had ended 
the praise-songs of the cattle his forehead touched the 
ground, and he lay flat in this position, still stripped, until 
the chief received his greeting and permitted him to stand 
and be clothed in his blanket. It was in this same court 
that Chaka received the messengers of chiefs and that all 
important acts took place. 

At the second entrance to this court there was an 
immensely high rock, on top of which sat the watchman 
of the city, the sentry, night and day, in order to see 
anything coming when it was still in the far distance, and 
to shout to those in the court so that they might tell the 
chief, as, £ I see a man or certain men, appearing near a 
certain kloof.' And instantly a man was sent, or several 
men, to meet them when they were still far from the city 
and to hear who they were and what their errand, because 
any one who came to the gate of the city without being 
seen and met was killed—and no questions asked. When 
the runner returned and told the chief their errand, then 
men were sent to the watchers of the gates of the city 
(not of the court) to allow them to enter and to accom¬ 
pany them to the gate of the court. 

None was allowed to enter the city by night, save only 
the runners and the messengers of the chief. And even 
they had to give signs to the watcher by means of fire¬ 
brands, so that the watcher might tell those who remained 
in the court at night that such and such a runner of the 
chief was coming, in order that they might inform the 
chief; then he would give orders that the sentries should 
allow him to enter, and he would remain in the court as 
long as the chief wished, or until he sent to ask what his 
errand was. 


k z 


132 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 

Leading from the court there was another palisade, the 
thickness of four men walking abreast. This palisade 
went to Chaka's own hut, called 'Ndhlunkulu' (the great 
house). Whoever walked there without having been 
called by two different messengers died a death more 
painful than death by the spear. Ndhlunkulu was a large 
hut as its name signifies, and it was built of thick trees 
planted in the ground to form the walls, which were 
then roofed over. Very few people entered this hut; 
it was the chief's, 'forbidden ground', and for that 
reason what took place there is not known. The few 
people known to have entered there were Ndlebe, 
Malunga, and Isanusi, and one or two others. It was in 
this hut that the fire-steel and the saltpetre of the chief 
were kept. Ten warriors patrolled it day and night, when 
Chaka was there, and when he was in court, and even 
when he had gone to battle. They patrolled it fully armed. 

Behind this abode of the chief there was a long line 
of huts for the wives of the chief. But Chaka had no 
wife, and indeed never married. However, he chose out 
for himself the most beautiful of the young girls of the 
tribe, those that were tall and of a fine light-brown 
colour, that had beautiful figures and a pleasing appear¬ 
ance, and he used to take them to those huts and call them 
'his sisters', that is to say people with whom he could not 
unite. But it was into the huts of these same girls that he 
went to visit them, and despoiled the maidenhood of 
these unhappy girls, and plucked the flower of their youth, 
so that when the time came when their bloom had passed 
he might hand them on to his councillors, if indeed they 
were still alive. But later we shall tell of what happened 
to many of them. 

The second and third divisions of the city were where 
the common people dwelt. The fourth division was for 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 133 
the city-guard and the servants of the chief, who escorted 
away all whose presence the chief no longer desired. 

This great city was surrounded by a palisade of trees 
planted in the ground, and at each gate there were warriors 
to prevent any one from coming in or going out without 
the chief's permission. 

Chaka, now that his rule was well established, did not 
often go out to Inis regiments early. At night he usually 
walked through the city to see that the watchers were 
doing their duty, and then went to his hut at dawn. And 
when the day was growing warm Mopo and his company 
usually went before Chaka to the court, so that the 
people might know that the chief was coming. It was 
also to warn all in the court to stand up, and as soon as 
Chaka appeared to greet him with the greeting appro¬ 
priate to him as chief, and to fall down on their faces 
until he had received their greeting. 

Leaving the court Chaka used to go to the kraal at the 
time when the milking was being performed. When the 
calves were let out of the kraal the cows used to low, and 
those that bellowed did it then most of all, while their 
herdboys recited their praises. Often they were shut in 
for the night unmilked, so that they might low loudly in 
the morning. At the same time the herdboys of the sheep 
and the goats let out the lambs and the kids, and amid the 
din of the sheep and the oxen the chief herdboy used to 
praise the chief in the praises usually addressed to the 
oxen: 'The ox that lows in the chief's village: in a little 
village it were unseemly for it to low. The god of the 
wet nose that joins the tribes together in marriage.' And 
then he ended by saying 'Bayete Nkosi. The oxen of the 
Mazulu praise thee and greet thee, thou who art the Sky, 
giving to them rain and pasture ground. The sheep and 
the goats of the Mazulu praise thee, thou Zulu to whom 


134 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 
they owe their being. All things living of the Mazulu 
praise thee, thou in praise of whom the cows have 
bellowed and even now are bellowing.' And the heart 
of Chaka rejoiced and was satisfied when he was praised 
even by the animals of the field. 

Next in order he used to go to the square, where were 
the regiments, to greet the people of his city, or rather to 
be greeted by the people of his city and by the city-guard. 
The greetings in this square were extraordinarily fine to 
hear, for they were made in the sight of all, where the 
whole city was accustomed to gather together. 

Then the chief visited Nombazi, among the dwelling- 
places of his sisters. The greeting in that quarter of the 
city surpassed all in beauty, because it was a love-greeting, 
couched in fitting words of endearment: 'Mtan Omhle 
Mhlekazi Uteku lwa bafazi ba kwa Nomgabi, Ababelu- 
tekula ba hleze emlovini,' spoken in a very joyful manner. 
'Uteku lwa bafazi ba kwa Nomgabi,' that is to say, 'Thou 
Sea of the women of Nomgabi,' 'Ababelutekula ba hleze 
emlovini,' that is to say, 'Him whom they pat or play 
with, when their hearts are full of peace and joy.' 

Before we complete this account we must mention 
that in this quarter of the city Chaka used to walk naked 
with only a loincloth on at the request of his sisters, so 
that they might feast their eyes with gazing at his body, 
for Chaka was a man of extraordinary beauty. He was 
taller than any in his tribe, and to add to this he had 
breadth as well. He was not thin. From his head to his 
feet he was without blemish, a giant among men. 

Even in war the last request of many of his men 
wounded to death was that they might gaze upon their 
chief naked for the last time and die in peace, and he 
used to comply with their request. 

At the time we are writing about in the history of 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 135 
Chaka it is certain that there was no chief on earth whose 
people loved him more. At the feasts of the tribe it was 
the rule that before the gathering dispersed, the chief 
should strip and the tribe should end their festivities by 
gazing upon the body of their chief. 

Chaka built also many villages for his regiments,for such 
a great crowd of men could not remain all in one place. 

He released from service the regiments of Dingiswayo, 
saying, 'You, I have taught you; it is enough, go and 
rest. I will call you when I go to war again.' All the 
others he took step by step through their training. He 
taught them the art of war; how to attack and defend and 
how to retire together and attack again. He taught them 
to march well, to advance together in a straight line. 
Whether they were executing a quick turn or throwing 
themselves down they were to do it together. He taught 
them useful drill that was a delight to watch. Above all, 
he taught them obedience. When they received an order 
they were not to answer back or ask the reason why, but 
simply to do what they had been ordered. He also 
composed many beautiful songs and praises, which 
caused his warriors when they heard them to weep and 
be carried away with enthusiasm. 

Every day he got up at dawn and before the cock crew 
on its perch he was with his regiments or watching them 
walk abreast in front of him. Malunga also rose at cock 
crow before sunrise and as Chaka had no wife it was 
Malunga who took in his hand the fire-steel. Always when 
he rose Malunga went out to see the cattle being killed 
for the regiments to eat, and he doctored their meat so 
that those who ate should listen to their commander in a 
spirit of true obedience. And then he added a drug to 
make their hearts callous so that they should be absolutely 
without mercy. 


156 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 

In the second place Chaka put an end to the circum¬ 
cision. He said that it was of no use and was merely 
wasting the time that the young boys could spend in learn¬ 
ing to fight. For that reason he had two different grades 
of regiments : Young men who carried shields and fought, 
and boys who were being taught to fight. As soon as a 
young male child had sufficient strength he was taken to 
the regiments where true manhood was taught. Day 
after day the child never met his parents or any woman; 
from morning to night he was with the same band of boys. 
Their talk and conversation, their songs and praises, 
their games—all had to do with war. It was the same 
with the very food they ate. In other words, everything 
they heard, saw, or did was connected with war, for they 
never saw anything but spears and battle-axes and shields. 
And their ornaments were the ornaments worn in war. 
Thus all the male children of the Mazulu were brought 
up in a way calculated to harden their hearts. Their 
business was with blood, because he who knew the art 
of killing was the one looked upon as 'circumcised,' as a 
'man'. These boys waited a long long time, watching for 
their day to arrive, the day when they would come before 
the tribe, the day of their presentation. When they went 
to war they used to go eagerly, like a dog that has been 
trained well, but forbidden to hunt, and with its teeth it 
itches to tear the goats, and perhaps even to bite men. 
These boys, too, went out like that, unable to distinguish 
between men and women, between children and old 
women. This was the second thing Chaka did. 

The third thing was that Chaka forbad his regiments 
to marry; marriage was for those who were grown 
men. He said that the married man—when men w T ere 
being killed in the thick of the battle—the married man 
thought of his wife and children, so that he ran away and 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 137 
disgraced himself. But the unmarried man fought to 
kill instead of being killed, and to conquer, so that he 
might enjoy the praises of the maidens. All the same 
Chaka did not forbid them absolutely. He promised 
that the troop that surpassed the others in war would be 
released first from this bondage of celibacy, even if they 
had not remained long in that state; more, they would be 
given wives by the chief himself. But if there was no 
troop outstanding, then they would all be released in 
turn, beginning with the first which would be released 
at a time chosen by the chief. But such troops would 
have to find their own wives. 

Also, if a warrior surpassed his fellows in the troop 
and did better than they, if he continued to be prominent, 
he could be put in command or released from restrictions 
while the others remained as before. That is to say, there 
was no fixed time for promotion; a man, as it were, fixed 
his own time according to his worth. Each year a man 
could begin in the lowest troop, working his way up, 
until he came to the top of the last troop and passed out 
from the bonds of celibacy and was married by the chief 
and given oxen to begin a new life that fitted such men. 
The reader must remember that above all else on earth 
the Black Races love to marry. Often in speaking of the 
good things of fife people do not mention marriage, 
because marriage is fife. Therefore we can understand 
well how hard the warriors of Chaka worked to gain this 
reward. To set his regiments an example Chaka remained 
a bachelor till the end of his life. This is the third and 
the most important thing that Chaka did. 

And, lastly, until Chaka became chief each warrior 
made use of the spears belonging to his troop, which all 
had long handles and were thrown at the enemy. In 
addition to this some had a battle-axe or a knobkerrie. 


i j8 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 
Chaka abolished all this. Each warrior was given one 
spear only, which had a broad blade and a short handle 
so that it could not be thrown. And strict orders were 
given that these spears should not be thrown at the 
enemy, that they were to be used for stabbing, and that it 
was essential that they should be so used. If this spear 
was to do its work properly it had to be used in close 
conflict, and under those conditions it wrought terrible 
havoc; it could tear a man's flesh to pieces or make a 
great gaping wound in his body that was nearly always 
fatal. Also, all warriors when they returned from war 
were bound to return with their spear, or not return at all. 
Further, they should bring back the spear of the man they 
had killed. These spears of the enemy were reforged and 
preserved for the regiments of young boys until the time 
when they should come to hold a spear. Every spear 
passed through the hands of Malunga for him to doctor 
with medicines and with snake poison, so that it would 
bring certain death to whoever was struck by it. 

After Chaka changed the name of his clan and chose 
instead the beautiful name of Zulu (that is, 'Heaven'), he 
desired to obtain also a form of greeting that would suit 
his new clan-name, and that would sound well in the ears 
of all. 

One day, after the regiments had performed their drill, 
he gathered them together, and called also the men of 
his city and said to them: 'My children, at night when I 
was sleeping, Nkulunkulu sent the greatest among his 
messengers to me, who said that I should teach his tribe 
of the Mazulu, a greeting, fine and honourable, a greeting 
fit for their chief, the chief that Nkulunkulu has placed 
over all the chiefs of the earth, and over all the tribes that 
are under the sun and the moon, that they may do homage 
to him, and kneel before him. 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 139 

'And ye, my children, shall remain with me and join 
in my rule and shall be honoured by all the tribes as I 
am honoured. It is Nkulunkulu's promise that if you 
obey me with a true obedience and hearken to my 
commands to perform them, as I obey Nkulunkulu and 
hearken to His commands to perform them, your 
children will see even greater things than these that ye 
see, and for you, when ye go to your Fathers, Nkulu¬ 
nkulu will send the Divine Goddess of the Mazulu to 
meet you, and take you to his presence where ye shall 
rule with Him, and with those who have hearkened unto 
His commands. 

'The greeting that I was commanded to teach you was 
Bayete. It is a greeting that ye shall use for me alone, 
and for none other; even in jest say not Bayete to any man, 
for to say it is death. This word ye shall use only when 
ye greet me. Nkulunkulu says that I should tell you 
that if ye honour not this greeting as He has commanded 
you to honour it, lions will tear you to pieces, your 
cattle will fail to give birth ever again, your women will 
not conceive, your fields will not bring forth, rain will 
not fall, and your enemies will wax strong against you. 

T charge you then, my children, honour this command 
of Nkulunkulu. 

'And this is the meaning of Bayete, 'He that is between 
God and man', that is to say, 'The Little God through 
whom the Great God rules all the chiefs and tribes upon 
earth.' 

Next Chaka reformed the clothing and ornaments of 
his warriors, because he wished for neatness among his 
regiments. He wanted them to be dressed alike, and for 
each regiment to have its own distinctive apparel. 
Sandals were worn in those days, but Chaka abolished 
them on the ground that they prevented his warriors 


140 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 
from moving quickly. Apart from this Chaka taught his 
tribe a proper respect for him and the manner in which 
they should speak to him. The men, that is the army, he 
taught a respectful greeting. The chief's guard and the 
advisers of the chief (but he accepted no advice) were 
also taught the manner in which they should advise and 
speak with him. 

The warriors when they greeted him said: 

'Bayete, Father, Lord of lords. 

Thou the lion, the elephant to whom none can make reply. 
Thou who art greater than us all, 

Bayete, Father, Lord of Heaven, 

Thou the black one, born to rule with mercy: 

Thou who art as big as an elephant. 

Thou terror of men. 

Thou whose paws are like the lion's. 

Thou who art as great as the sky above. 

Do thou, Heaven, rule us with mercy. 

Bayete Lord! Bayete Father! Bayete Heaven! ' 

The guard used to rise late in the morning and go to 
the court in order to be able to greet the chief, and as soon 
as he appeared, they all rose to their feet and Mopo their 
head said: 'The sky is clear to-day' (that is, 'the chief is 
glad'), and they would answer him with: 'If the sky is clear 
we shall have a pleasant warmth.' And then they went 
forward together to give the greeting to the chief: 
'Bayete Nkosi. Thou, whose warmth is like the warmth 
of the sun that makes the corn to grow. Hail, our Sun.' 

Or else Mopo would say: 'The sky is overcast to-day' 
('the chief is not glad'), and they would answer him: 'If the 
sky is overcast, we are glad, because it bringeth to us the 
blessing of rain.' That meant that many men were about 
to be killed. 


REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 141 
The young girls, the sisters of the chief, when they 
greeted him, used to say: 'Sakubona Mtan Omhle, 
Bayete Mhlekazi,' or: 'Bayete Nkosi, Uteku lwa bafazi 
ba kwa Nomgabi, Ababelutekula ba hleze emlovini. 
Bayete Zulu.' 

Everything that Chaka said or did or took pleasure 
in had but one end only—war. And that was why the 
improvements begun by Dingiswayo came to nothing, 
because all the men were in the army and all the attention 
of the women was devoted to the army. Here are the 
'praises' of Chaka in Zulu so far as we have been able to 
discover them. 

TO CHAKA 

(The Cunning Fox, Son of Msenteli). 

Chaka, I am afraid to call him Chaka, 

Chaka, the king of a lowly people, 

The sea of the women of Nomgabi 
Whom they played with at their pleasure. 

They thought Chaka would not become king and rule. 
But that same year he showed himself born to rule. 

He appeared against the people of Manzuluma 
And the day after the people of Manzuluma were scat¬ 
tered. 

He was the fire that burnt Mjokwane and Ndaba, 

The fire that burnt with fury. 

That burnt the owl of Dhlebe, 

That burnt also the owl of Madehlana. 

Their cattle were taken and made to follow behind him. 
He looked towards the people of Dungelo 
And towards the people of Mafongosi, 

Who belonged to the servants of Mavela. 

He was the lightning that struck the village of Ekuqobe- 
keni. 


142 REFORMS AND REGULATIONS OF CHAKA 

That captured the shield of the Mabele, 

That ate up Nomhlanjana born of Zwide, 

That ate up too Mpepa born of Zwide. 

He was the elephant who hunted the people of Langa, 
Who ate up Mpondo-Pumela the giant of the Mabele, 
Who ate up Mtimona born of Gaqa. 

He was the calf that climbed on the house of Ntombazi. 
They thought he would be beaten as they were beaten. 
He was the elephant that turned its head and ate men. 
The elephant that roared from the streamlet. 

The lightning that struck and devoured the Mabele. 

The women left the hoes scattered in the fields. 

They left the seed at their ruined homes. 

At Somdomba he ate two sheep. 

One ox only escaped. 

He doth not take council with the people nor with 
councillors; 

He is like a son-in-law to a mother-in-law. 

He was the ape which they planned to kill, yet he escaped: 
They thought he was a sucking ape. 

He was a lover of the lowly, where they congregated; 
He made love to his brother's hinds. 

He was born of Hlayukana and he raiseth a black cloud 
of dust. 

He is loved by the women of the Mazulu. 

Jump on my back my brother and let us go: 

Other children are on their mother's backs. 

If thou ask a reason, thou shalt be left. 

Thou shalt be behind like the tail of an ox. 

Like the locust that is gathered by the spear of the man 
that comes behind. 

The locust that straighteneth itself out in death.' 


Chapter Eighteen 


THE DEATH OF NOLIWE 


HE months for reflection appointed by Isanusi came 



1L to an end, and Chaka's decision was not altered; he 
stood where he did before. As we have said already there 
was one great obstacle to Chaka's marriage, namely, to 
whom should he give the cattle ? For it was obvious that he 
could not take Noliwe in marriage for nothing, as if she 
were a wastrel. All the same Chaka continued to visit 
Noliwe and she became pregnant. And now she longed 
for Chaka's love, and always wept if she could not see him. 

And Chaka loved Noliwe in return; she was the one 
person we could imagine Chaka as loving, if he loved any 
woman with sincerity. All that is good, all that is beautiful, 
all that a true wife can give her husband, Chaka would 
have got from Noliwe if from any one. And although he 
was bartering her away in this fashion and was planning 
to kill her, yet his conscience troubled him, and gave him 
no rest, telling him always that he had descended from 
the level of a man. But because of the chieftainship he 
smothered his conscience and pressed on, bearing death 
on his shoulders. 

It was beginning to be clear that the methods used by 
Ndlebe and Malunga were without any doubt leading him 
to the chieftainship that he desired, and so he swallowed 
his fears and hardened his heart. 

Malunga told him that the period promised had already 
passed, and that doubtless Isanusi had allowed it to pass 
on purpose so that Chaka might be fixed in his resolve. 
Then Chaka said: 'But the delay of Isanusi will embarrass 
me, for I am eager now to go to war. We have been here 
doing naught for a long time, and the rust will eat into 
our spears.' 


144 THE DEATH OF NOLIWE 

Malunga said: 'Yea, but according to the way I have 
been working thou canst not go to war without shedding 
the blood of the one that thou dost love, and that is 
Isanusi's part not mine. If after deliberation thou sparest 
Noliwe, I can do naught. It is Isanusi alone that can 
undo what I have done. He only it is who can both go 
forward and go back, who can do and undo.' Chaka 
heard and he understood that it was still possible to have 
. mercy on Noliwe and spare her, and his thoughts were 
troubled. 

The evening of that day Isanusi arrived and went to 
them in the hut, and Chaka and he were alone, and he 
broached the question: 'How is it with thee Chaka ? Hast 
thou decided to live with Noliwe as thy wife as was 
determined by Dingiswayo and his tribe and also by thee, 
or hast thou determined to win the chieftainship ? ' 

T, Chaka, know not how to make my tongue say two 
different things. What I have said I have said, Isanusi.' 
Isanusi remained silent for a long while and gazed on 
the ground. At last he raised his head and said, 'Greeting, 
my kinsmen. Malunga, how is it with thee? Hast thou 
done thy work ? ' 

T have done it and I have finished, Isanusi. We are 
waiting but for thee, whose part it is to complete and to 
finish.' 

Isanusi said: 'The medicine has been given to the 
warriors and they have not known of it ? ' 'It has been 
given, Isanusi.' 'The spears have been newly forged and 
prepared in the proper manner, as are the spears of the 
warriors in our country ? ' 'They have been forged, and 
they have been prepared, Isanusi.' 'The medicines have 
been correctly mixed ? ' 'They have been correcdy mixed, 
Isanusi. All that thou didst command have I done in 
the way that thou commandedst it and have finished.' 


THE DEATH OF NOLIWE 145 

Isanusi turned to Ndlebe and said, 'Ndlebe, what hast 
thou done since I departed ? * 

'I have prepared with drugs the hearts of the people, of 
the men and of the women, so that whatever Chaka may 
do they will perceive is right, because it is done by Chaka 
—Chaka who was sent by the Gods unto men. Further, I 
have given them of Forgetfulness to eat so that where 
there was doubt they may forget it and be without 
understanding, so that they may see naught, but look 
only to Chaka and regard him as they regard Nkulunkulu.' 
Isanusi smiled and said, 'Thou hast worked well in a 
weighty matter.' Then Isanusi again asked Chaka the 
question that he had just asked him, and Chaka gave the 
same answer as before. Again Isanusi was silent for a long 
time and was perplexed like a judge unwilling to condemn 
one whom he loved, yet bound by circumstances to con¬ 
demn him and to pass a hard sentence—against his will. 

And then Isanusi said: 'Think well, Chaka. What has 
been done by my servants can be undone, but that which 
I will do through the blood of Noliwe, thy wife, even I 
cannot undo. What will be done will be done for ever. 
Therefore a man must understand what he doth while 
there is yet time, lest afterwards he repent and it is of no 
avail. When I departed from thee I told thee that to-day 
we would teach thee the innermost secrets of witchcraft, 
and so it is; for we are witch-doctors mightier than all 
others. If thou dost determine to win the chieftainship, 
thou wilt become a different man and be like unto the 
chiefs of our country. But I will ask thee yet again and 
do thou answer speaking the truth that is in thy heart 
and fear nothing, fear not even that I shall weary thee 
again to no purpose. Which dost thou choose—Noliwe, 
or the chieftainship?' 

And Chaka answered, 'The chieftainship.' 


146 THE DEATH OF NOLI WE 

In the twinkling of an eye Isanusi's brow cleared and lit 
up and the gloom that had enveloped him fled and gave 
place to joy, and he said: 'Thou hast answered like a man 
after my own heart. I have no patience with one whose 
thoughts waver. With these questions I tested thee to 
know the depth of thy understanding and I see that thou 
art a man: when thou hast spoken, thou hast spoken. 
Thou art a chief and thy answer is the answer of a chief. 
To-day I know what thou art, and I will work with a joy¬ 
ful heart even more than before, since I know thy nature. 
Through the death of Noliwe thou wilt learn of many 
things, and though thou wilt not discover them at once 
thou wilt discover them later. Thou shalt learn, too, that 
there is no death, there is no destruction. When it is said 
that a man has died he has not died but has been changed; 
the breath of his life has left this dry skin that is his body, 
and has gone to another land that is more glorious than the 
sun, and he goeth to live there retaining his true nature, 
even as thou hast heard the voice of thy father speaking 
with thee—and it was he himself that spoke. He that hath 
worked well on earth will reap a rich harvest there; he 
that hath done naught here reapeth naught there, for all 
that a man doth here the sun when it sets takes with it to 
that great city of the living, the city of those who ,ye say, 
have died and are dead. And his acts await him there, 
ever growing, ever increasing, like the cattle that bring 
forth calves each year. But if a man has done little, his 
acts instead of increasing decrease and diminish. It is 
with him as with a man that hath ploughed little, and 
when he saith he will thresh his few ears of corn that are 
but a handful, instead of an abundance they fill but one 
small leathern bag or are lost amid the dust of the thresh¬ 
ing floor, and he is left destitute and empty-handed. 

'Even now thou art about to enter in to the number of 


THE DEATH OF NOLIWE 147 

the mighty, yea, even the mighty that I see even now 
where they dwell, surrounded by the glory of their works, 
they who were men, who strove and laboured in their 
day, and wrought manfully. Even now thou art about to 
enter into the number of the chiefs who are like unto the 
chiefs of our land.' Then Isanusi began to be sad and was 
silent as if he were on the point of revealing to Chaka 
the secrets of the land beyond the grave. Chaka listened 
to all this with eagerness and excitement and with an 
urgent longing to reach soon a chieftainship of such a 
kind. 

Then Isanusi continued and said: 'Thou art a man of 
understanding, Chaka; truly there are not many like unto 
thee for knowing the times. For there is a time in the 
life of man which, if it pass him and leave him, then 
fortune has passed him by, such fortune as he will never 
see again until he comes to He in the cold earth. But if he 
give heed to the time and perceive it, he can win a 
happiness that will never again elude him. One such 
time was when I found thee asleep under the bush: if 
thou hadst not chosen manhood then, where wouldst 
thou have been?' (And Chaka said to himself, 'Indeed 
where should I have been ? ') 

'To-day is another such time. Thou hast known how to 
choose the path along which thou wilt walk and the way 
in which thou wilt Hve on earth, and when thou diest thy 
kingdom will be without limits. And greatest of all, thy 
fame and the glory of thy reign—thou wilt find it all there 
increased tenfold among thy fathers when thou comest to 
them, and it will be for ever and ever; for there is no 
death: there men live for ever according as they have 
Hved here on earth.' Isanusi was again silent for a long 
while and then he drew Chaka to him and they went 
outside where he looked up at the sky and pointed to the 


i 4 8 the death of noliwe 

stars: 'The number of thy warriors will soon be greater 
than the multitudinous stars thou seest in the heavens. 
Among the tribes thou wilt shine as doth the sun when 
no clouds cover it, before which when it riseth the stars 
disappear. And before thee, too, the tribes will indeed 
disappear when thou appearest, for the blood of Noliwe 
will bring to thee untold riches.' 

The reader can imagine what were the thoughts of 
Chaka when he was promised such fame and such glory, 
and was promised them by the one whom he knew to 
speak the truth in all things. Nevertheless, things re¬ 
mained as they were for a few days and nothing was done; 
they were waiting till near the time when Chaka should 
go down in the morning to the river, so that the deed 
might be done then. 

The next day Chaka, after he returned from watching 
his regiments drill, found that Isanusi and his attendants 
were no longer there but had gone to procure medicines 
from the veld and the bush. He entered Noliwe's hut and 
found her alone with her servant girl, and at once when 
he saw her he discovered that she had a beautiful brown 
colour, her skin was smooth and shining, and her beauty 
was overpowering. There was a look of tenderness in 
her spariding eyes. Her voice, when she spoke to Chaka 
her beloved, far surpassed in his ears the war songs and 
praises which he had persuaded himself were so beautiful. 
The tone of her voice was beautifully pitched, clear yet 
soft, and full of sincerity without guile or deceit. But 
above all, her eyes, which so clearly said, T am thine, 
Chaka, my whole self is thine, in life and in death.' At 
that moment her beauty made him dumb, so that he could 
not speak, but stood there powerless. He rubbed his eyes 
and looked away, and when he looked at Noliwe again he 
found that her beauty was greater than ever; it was a 


THE DEATH OF NOLIWE 149 

beauty befitting the woman so dearly loved by Nkulu- 
nkulu who had been chosen out by him to show to men 
the perfection of womanhood. In Chaka's mind a whirl¬ 
wind seemed to spring up, a mighty tempest shook him 
and the dust flew: then he went. When Isanusi returned 
he said to him, even before Chaka spoke: 'Thou art a man 
indeed, Chaka. I saw the confusion of thy thoughts when 
thou didst look upon Noliwe, but thou holdest to thy 
manhood like a chief, for a chief should not vary his 
purposes from day to day.' 

As Chaka's day approached Noliwe sickened, for she 
was pregnant, and she was suffering from her burden, 
although her pregnancy was not yet so advanced that 
people would take notice. On the evening before Chaka 
was to go down to the pool Chaka went to her, taking 
with him a long needle of the kind used for sewing grain 
baskets. He found her sitting alone with only her hand¬ 
maiden, in order to be quiet, and as he entered the hand¬ 
maiden went out. There was a fire of wood burning and 
its flames provided a bright light which lit up the hut. 

Chaka approached her; he fondled and kissed her and 
then asked what ailed her. Noliwe answered 'Chaka, my 
lord, thy brow frowns and thy voice soundeth strained 
and sorrowful. What hath vexed thee ? ' Chaka said that 
nothing had vexed him except that he had been angered 
by some scoundrel during the drill of his warriors. They 
continued thus, speaking together happily and exchanging 
kisses, when suddenly Chaka pressed his strong hand 
down upon Noliwe's mouth and pierced her with the 
needle under the armpit. Then he turned her on her side 
and raised up the part that had been pierced so that the 
blood might flow back into the wound. When Noliwe 
was on the point of death her eyelids fluttered a few times 
and she said: 'Chaka, my beloved, thou who art now my 


i jo THE DEATH OF NOLI WE 

father, who art Jobe, who art Dingiswayo, who art . . 
the brief candle of her life went out, and her pure spirit 
fled and went to Dingiswayo to the place of glory above. 
When Chaka saw her eyelids flutter he was terrified, he 
began to tremble, and then he fled. When Noliwe was 
quite dead, Chaka felt within himself something like a 
heavy stone falling, falling, till it rested on his heart. 

He fled outside, but his eyes were dim and he saw 
nothing, save only the face of Noliwe on the point of 
death, when her eyelids had fluttered. His ears were 
stopped, and he heard nothing save only Noliwe's last 
cry. When he recovered he found himself with Isanusi in 
the hut and Isanusi was saying words of praise: 'Now thy 
name hath been enrolled among the number of our chiefs, 
even the great and the mighty.' 

The poor girl who was with Noliwe when Chaka 
entered was killed; it was said that she had not spoken 
when Noliwe was ill, so that Noliwe died and none knew 
of it. And Ndlebe spread the report that it was she who 
had bewitched Noliwe. Isanusi had now taken from 
Noliwe the thing he wanted to take (what it was we do not 
know), and he prepared it as he alone knew how and 
the next morning he went with Chaka to the river and 
Malunga and Ndlebe were there. And when they returned 
Isanusi made haste to go to his own home. 

So died Noliwe, daughter of Jobe, sister of Dingiswayo, 
and wife of Chaka. 


Chapter Nineteen 


THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 
'TER the death of Noliwe Chaka underwent a great 



iA change for the worse, both in his outward appear¬ 
ance and in his inner nature—in his intentions and acts. 
In the first place all remnants of humanity still left to him 
disappeared and vanished in the terrible blackness of his 
heart. His capacity to distinguish between war and 
murder or mere killing was gone—absolutely. To him it 
was all as one : he regarded both in the same light. And 
secondly, his real self perished completely, a spirit more 
animal than human took full possession of him. For 
although he had always been a cruel man, he had yet 
remained a man , his cruelty had been the cruelty of a man. 
One who shed the blood of others for the sake of the 
chieftainship, who shed the blood of a human being like 
Noliwe, must obviously have regarded the blood of men 
and of the animals that we kill as in no way dissimilar. 
The killing of Noliwe was worse than anything Chaka 
did when winning the chieftainship. The blood of Noliwe 
left a mark upon him that could not be washed away, 
like the mark on the chiefs of the country of Isanusi. 
Nandi's sorrow when she heard of the death of Noliwe 
was inconceivable, because she loved her dearly and 
regarded her as her daughter. 

After this great act of preparation Chaka went to war 
with the Butelezi and the people of Qwabe (the Ama- 
qwabe), in order to try his strength and test the young men 
he had trained and to see how his regiments would fight. 
And he went to war with twice as many regiments as 
Dingiswayo had had. Throughout the whole of Kafir- 
land there was peace and prosperity, the land was at rest 
and the tribes were quietly enjoying their happiness, and 


152 THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 

then Chaka went on the war-path with his regiments to 

put an end to that peace upon earth. 

It is quite obvious that in these two wars some must 
have fled, some must have lost their weapons, some have 
thrown them, and some returned without them. It is so 
in all tribes; men are killed and weapons lost. In these 
two wars Chaka used only his new regiments and kept 
the old in reserve. And among these new regiments there 
was only one that stood its ground and fought on when 
the others had fled, and although the enemy pressed 
heavily upon it and almost exterminated it, it stood fast 
without wavering for a moment, until Chaka came to the 
rescue and saved it. Many of the others often fell back in 
the heat of the conflict and then quickly returned to the 
attack: but this regiment never flinched. 

There was a young man in this regiment whom Chaka 
never lost sight of. When the attack was made he went 
forward with his eyes sunk far back into his head and he 
held his spear lightly behind him and seized his shield by 
its covering of skin and threw forward his chest, like a 
water-bird when it swims. As soon as they came to close 
quarters he became alive with eagerness ; he parried with 
his shield and seized it by the thong and thrust with his 
spear at his enemy with an upward thrust. His methods 
of fighting in these two wars closely resembled Chaka's 
own methods when he was a warrior. And his name was 
Umziligazi. 

When Chaka reached home he gave word that all 
grown men and the women should come to their chief's 
hut Umgungundhlovu; even the regiments of young boys 
were to be collected and come, that is to say the whole 
tribe that he ruled was to gather together outside the wall 
of the city. When they had assembled he went there, 
preceded by Mopo (Umbopa), the head of the chief's 


THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 153 

guard, and behind him came the one new regiment that 
had fought well in those two wars. As Mopo walked 
forward he sang of the boundless wisdom of the chief and 
the righteousness of his judgements. When Chaka had 
come within the circle, he raised on high his small spear 
used for divining and there was silence. Then he called 
all the regiments with which he had gone to war and 
commanded them to step forward. They did so and he 
ordered every warrior to show his spear and the spear of 
the man he had killed. They showed them and those that 
had no second spear to show or had lost their own were 
placed on one side. After that he called for those who 
had fled in battle, and they were deprived of their spears 
and their uniform and were placed by themselves on one 
side. Those that had thrown their spears were called up, 
and they too were placed by themselves on one side. 

The commanders of the regiments were close to the 
chief, surrounding him. Chaka looked upon them and 
looked too upon the men he had placed on one side in the 
circle and then he raised his spear, the spear that had 
killed thousands, and there was silence. The commanders 
prepared to listen carefully to what the chief was about 
to say. Then he spoke: 'Let the regiments Unkandle and 
Myozi come forward.' At once their commanders ran 
and brought them forward and they entered the circle 
and Chaka lifted up his voice and said: 'All ye here, listen 
with your ears and hear, open your eyes and see, witness 
now the act I am about to do and the law I am about to 
make with regard to these men. Do ye see these men?' 
And the crowd answered: 'We see them. Chief.' And 
Chaka said: 'They are cowards that fled in battle when I 
had strictly charged them that none should do any dis¬ 
graceful act among my regiments, because he who flees 
in battle puts to shame our name and the name of the 


154 THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 

Amazulu, which means "those who cannot be overcome." 
And when these men turned in flight it was a sign that 
one day the Amazulu would be overcome. They are 
therefore worthy of the uttermost penalty.' 

Here Malunga ran forward and spoke: 'The commands 
of the chief must be obeyed and honoured by every 
warrior, because he who obeys not the commands of the 
chief obeys not the commands of Nkulunkulu who sent 
the chief to teach war to his children the Amazulu and to 
deliver them from their enemies.' And Chaka turned his 
head in every direction and looked on all sides and the 
people trembled, because when Chaka was angry he 
became nothing other than a wild animal. He looked upon 
those two regiments in the middle of the circle and raised 
up his spear and pointed with it to those who had turned 
their backs in the fight; he pointed with it and remained 
silent. Swiftly in the twinkling of an eye his warriors fell 
upon the victims like hyenas upon sheep. They died by 
thousands and became the food of vultures, there by 
their own homes, not on the battlefield, but in the sight 
of their own parents, in the sight of the young girls and 
children. There they were shown for cowards indeed, 
worse than all cowards that had ever been. 

When they had been killed there was absolute silence. 
When Chaka was angry his mouth used to be marked 
with flecks of foam. Then the chief's guard, the men 
chosen to give council to the chief, said: 'Lo, the wisdom 
of the chief. Through this act there will be no more 
cowards among the Zulus. No warrior will turn his back 
on the foe again.' 

As they said this they bowed down to the ground, to 
show their admiration of Chaka. About twenty people 
of Zwide's tribe, that had now come under the rule of 
Chaka, wept when they saw the slaughter—wept for their 


THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 155 

sons or their brothers. Then Chaka commanded that 
they should be brought to him, he would comfort them 
in their sorrow. 

When the victims had been dragged out from the 
crowd Chaka again raised his spear and whispered to his 
commanders that the regiments of Linare and Lilepe 
('Buffaloes and Axes') should come forward. As these 
two regiments advanced, the people perceived that the 
slaughter was not yet at an end and they were very 
frightened; never had they seen such a slaughter before. 
Ndlebe, meanwhile, was darting hither and thither among 
the crowd and bringing all who wept or grieved for their 
children to the chief, for him to comfort them. 

'These men ye see here are cowards like unto the others. 
They have lost their weapons, the weapons I laboured to 
make stout and strong with the potent medicines of the 
Zulus.' Then some one cried out and said: 'Clear it is that 
if they lost their spears, they fled.' Chaka paced up and 
down and then stood still and looked round. Then 
raising his spear he pointed at the men, never saying a 
word. And the vultures quickly flew away to one side, 
for the warriors were bringing them food—and yet more 
food. 

And the chief's guard said: 'Behold his understanding. 
Never again shall the spears of the Zulus be lost, never 
again shall the chief labour in vain for spears that are lost 
by design when men flee.' 

And Chaka raised his spear yet a third time, and when 
the people saw it they became pale and white with fright. 
And he said: 'Those ye see, who returned from the fight 
with no spears captured, that means they killed no man.' 
And a cry rang out among the crowd: 'If they killed no 
man, it is clear that they went to battle as an empty sound 
only, afraid to go where the fight was hot, where the 


i 5 6 THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 

weapons were doing their work. They are cowards.' 
And two or three commanders of the tribes that had been 
scattered said: 'Alas, let not thy hand be heavy. Chief, 
enough have been killed by the spear, be merciful. Lord.' 
Chaka answered that he had heard: let them come to him. 
The spear again pointed to those for whom intercession 
had been made and again the vultures dashed to one side 
when their food was brought to them; but now they were 
sated, they left the remains for the jackal which fears to 
eat when the sun is up. 

And the guard said: 'Lo, his understanding. It is as a 
deep pool that has no bottom. Among the regiments of 
the Zulus no warrior will ever again go to battle as an 
empty sound only.' And they made signs to each other 
with their eyes so that the chief might see that they were 
truly astonished at his wisdom that was without compare. 

Again Chaka raised his spear and whispered to his 
commanders and again two regiments entered the circle 
and the people were consumed with fear. 'These are they 
that threw at the enemy the spears of the Zulus that were 
made to kill by stabbing. Thus they made of no avail the 
potency of the medicines with which they were prepared.' 
As he was speaking his mother Nandi came and threw 
herself at the feet of her son and said: 'Alas, Chief, hear me. 
I say to thee, let not thy hand be heavy, Zulu. It is the 
first time that they have failed thee, and they have seen 
the enormity of their fault. They will repent and fight 
thy wars for thee. Lord.' Chaka was silent, never a word. 
And Nandi clung to the ground. Then he said: 'For my 
mother's sake only, because she is my mother who gave 
me birth and took me from Nkulunkulu and brought me 
into the world, I forgive you. Act not so again.' And 
Chaka bade his mother go and return home for he had 
heard her prayer. When Nandi had gone, Chaka shouted 


THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 157 

aloud. 'The condemnation of the warriors is at an end. I 
commanded you to listen attentively that ye might hear, 
and to open your eyes that ye might see, and ye have both 
heard and seen. All of you here to-day and ye boys as 
well can now know that whoever doth any act like to 
what has been done, his punishment is death. I called you 
that ye might understand and see for yourselves. My 
laws must be unswervingly obeyed, a man must obey them 
in his heart, for whosoever performs my laws only from 
compulsion, him will I cast yonder.' (And he pointed to 
where the corpses were lying.) 'These are my last words. 
Listen attentively yet again and hear, open your eyes and 
see, and see clearly. These men ye have seen to weep, and 
to weep thus is to say that I have committed wrong in 
my judgements, and to say that Chaka has committed 
wrong is a grievous sin. And this weeping will discourage 
the hearts of the warriors in war if they are to feel that 
they are dying unwept, and they will flee. Now, therefore, 
I will teach them to weep for their children in the right 
way, since I have said that they should come to me for 
comfort, and I will make them to forget the death of those 
they weep for.' And the commanders hearkened, and then 
he said: 'These eyes of theirs that are filled with pools of 
water, pluck them; in this way these people will forget 
their children that have sinned so grievously.' In the 
twinkling of an eye their eyes were torn out; they were 
allowed outside the circle to find their way home if they 
could, or else to fall over precipices. 

And the guard said: 'Never since the world began have 
there been judgements like unto these judgements. His 
words and his actions bear witness that he has been sent 
by Nkulunkulu.' 

And again Chaka raised his spear for the last time and 
said: 'These men ye see now—their tongues were active 


1 5 8 THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 

and ye have heard them. They will spoil my warriors in 
that they will wish to make petition for them.' He 
ceased speaking and then he said: 'These tongues of 
theirs that chatter so, pull them out by the roots, do not 
cut them, for they will grow again. In this way they will 
cease to meddle in the affairs of chiefs when they rebuke 
their people.' In the twinkling of an eye the men's 
tongues were rooted out and they perished. 

And the guard said: 'We praise thee, we greet thee, 
Zulu. Righteous are thy judgements and without favour. 
Thine eyes see into the hearts of men, where none other 
can see. Thine ears hear the thoughts of men that they 
think within their souls. All thy acts bear witness, Zulu, 
that thou art a man, that thou art the servant of Nkulu- 
nkulu, that thou art the Zulu, the lord of us all.' If any of 
them were to speak in a way displeasing to Chaka, his 
punishment would be death. And Chaka shouted for the 
last time: 'He that has seen has seen, and he that has heard 
has heard.' 

The regiment that had refused to flee even when the 
fight was hot was given all the spoil taken from the Qwabe 
and the Butelezi. The oxen they were given became their 
wealth and not their food; of these Chaka took not a 
single head although they were very many. And over 
and above this they were released from service, and entered 
into the number of the famous regiments that only fought 
in cases of great necessity. In other words the time when 
they could marry was very close at hand. Umziligazi was 
promoted and made commander of this same regiment 
and was allowed to choose for himself a hundred oxen 
and as many bulls from the oxen of the chief. So did 
Chaka divide the spoil among his brave men. 

On this day the men that were killed could be counted 
by tens of thousands. Thus was cowardice brought to an 


THE SLAUGHTER OF THE COWARDS 159 

end among the Zulus and from that time the Zulu 
warriors when they went to war understood clearly the 
meaning of the saying, 'A man child is an ox for the 
vultures.' They understood, too, that they were not the 
children of their parents, but of the chief. They made up 
their minds to conquer or to die, rather than be killed 
like dogs at home before the eyes of the women. From 
that time one Zulu was equal to ten of the enemy and 
could put them to flight. When they went to war again, 
Chaka's command to his regiments was, 'Go forward, my 
children, and fight and return victorious, bringing the 
booty. Return in that wise or not at all.' 

This is only the beginning of the many slaughterings of 
Chaka. Those who saw what happened on that day were 
delirious all night and wasted away, for it was the first 
time that men had seen such things. 


Chapter Twenty 


CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 
UMZILIGAZI 

; TER the slaughter of the cowards Chaka at once 



X A. made war against the south. He completed his con¬ 
quest of the Amaqwabe and fought against the Abatembu, 
the Amafunze, and the Amacunu. These were the first 
tribes to be scattered by Chaka with regiments formed of 
different nations. Chaka killed them without mercy and 
burnt their villages and their crops; and instead of return¬ 
ing home with all this booty, he took up his position 
where he was and remained some months. While he was 
there he did a great deal of damage and literally swept 
men to death and the young men he kept on forcing into 
his regiments. 

After this he again went down and crossed the Tukela 
and scattered the Amabomvu and the Abakwamacibise. 
The sheep and catde of these tribes he thrust to the rear 
and passed on. By this time he did not often have to fight. 
The people were now so afraid of him that as soon as his 
regiments appeared they fled. Later the sound of his name 
alone was enough for them, and as soon as it was reported 
that Chaka was at hand they immediately left their 
villages and fled. His name became renowned, and where- 
ever men congregated, and in the houses of the women, 
and even on the veld among the herdboys, the talk was 
of nothing but Chaka. 

These tribes that fled before Chaka slaughtered the 
smaller tribes in their passage and completely devoured 
their cattle and their corn and everything that they had. 
And the tribes farther on who had not yet heard of Chaka 
blocked their way and fought against those who were 
fleeing from Chaka; so those who were fleeing were 


CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 161 
attacked on every side—by Chaka from behind and by 
the owners of the country they were passing through 
from in front. But as it was Chaka that they had to flee 
from they united together and formed one huge force, 
and since they easily trampled on all the tribes that were 
in their path, they wreaked their vengeance on them 
instead of on Chaka. The tribes to the south were in a 
tumult, and so terrible was the slaughter that sometimes 
they were wading in blood. Often Chaka found the people 
resigned, submissive, with no strength to fight, and he 
simply came and finished the work of destruction. The 
number killed by Chaka and his regiments was far less 
than the number killed by the fugitives. And that was 
the beginning of the 'great wars 5 and the time of un¬ 
settlement—it all dates from Chaka. 

In these wars Chaka killed all that were married, both 
men and women, and the old people and the children, that 
is to say all the adult population that had known their chiefs 
and their rule and would not be able to change and become 
true Zulus. The children he killed because they would be 
in the way or would incite to pity if they were left when 
their parents had gone. All the young men and women 
were granted their fives on the assumption that they would 
soon forget their homes and become Zulus in mind and 
spirit. The girls were made slaves to serve the soldiers, so 
that afterwards when they were released from their restric¬ 
tions they might be able to find wives from amongst them. 

Wherever Chaka had passed there was to be seen the 
smoke of the villages he had burnt in order that the people 
might have no place of refuge. There could be seen, too, 
the smoke of their crops that he had burnt so that even 
those who had escaped might die of hunger. Even so, a 
few remnants often escaped, and in his anger Chaka, when 
he saw that there were still some people hiding away 


M 


162 CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 
where he could not reach them, killed their dogs so that 
they would not be able to kill wild animals any more and 
would die and come to a complete end and all perish 
from the earth. He was indifferent whether they perished 
by the spear or from hunger, so long as they perished. 

Before the coming of Chaka's regiments the country 
looked good, adorned with villages and cultivation and 
large herds of cattle. But wherever those regiments had 
passed there was desolation only and no villages, no 
cultivation, no herds of cattle—nothing, except perhaps 
some wild animals. Wolves and hyenas followed in large 
numbers behind Chaka's regiments and stalked them. 
Where they stopped there they also stopped, because 
they knew that wherever the regiments went they would 
find food without having to hunt for it or make any 
effort: they would eat 'bulbs already peeled'. The earth 
became wild and overgrown and stank with death to the 
sky above. The fields lay fallow and none tilled them, 
for as soon as any one began to till Chaka saw it and spread 
his men in that direction. What had been villages were 
now ruins—places to make men's hair stand on end. 

And then it was that because of the famine people first 
began to eat men, as the flesh of a slaughtered animal is 
eaten. They hunted each other like wild animals and 
ate what they killed. It was the famine that caused them 
to begin, and afterwards they continued in their can¬ 
nibalism out of habit. The first cannibal was a Kafir 
called Undava, who lived near where the city called 
Durban is to-day. And after a few years the persecution 
and distress from the east climbed the mountains and 
entered Basutoland and there, too, cannibals appeared as 
a result of the famine. This was the worst of all the evil 
things of those times, and this too was caused by Chaka, 
the originator of all that was evil. 


CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 163 

And Chaka returned from the country of the Amatuli 
and gathered together the cattle of the tribes he had 
scattered, and went with them and placed them at cattle 
posts in the same country that was now uninhabited. The 
black and the white had their cattle posts and the yellow 
and the streaked and the brown-and-white had theirs, 
and so on. And when he had returned home he released 
his veteran regiments from their bondage of bachelorhood 
and gave them oxen for their support. He also gave them 
young girls who tilled the ground and cooked for them, 
and thus fulfilled his promise that regiments such as these 
would be married by him. He gave what was not his to 
give. 

When Chaka had returned from the south where were 
the tribes of the Amaqwabe, the Amafunze, the Abatembu, 
the Amacunu, the Amakunze, the Abakwamacibise, the 
Amabomvu, and the Amatuli ? They had been wiped out 
from beneath the sun, they had gone where 2wide's tribe 
had gone. When he returned there were only wild animals 
to be seen in the country, not one human being, for all 
had perished and were no more. 

And that was when messengers from Moshoeshoe 
came to Chaka, after his return from the south, to pay 
tribute, and Moshoeshoe declared by the mouth of his 
messengers that he was no chief, but the servant of Chaka, 
and that he did not know of any other chief existing save 
only Chaka. Chaka received this tribute with joy, and 
abandoned his intention of making war on Moshoeshoe 
and planned instead to make him his lieutenant, so that 
some of his regiments might remain over there and fight 
on that side of the mountains. He was delighted with the 
words of Moshoeshoe, and frequently said them over to 
himself: 'Moshoeshoe says that he does not know of any 
other chief existing save only me. Then men have already 


M 1 


164 CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 
begun to say that I alone am a chief upon earth, but as 
yet I have done nothing; this is only a beginning. What 
will it be when I have accomplished the plans that I have 
laid ? What will they say then ?' 

Chaka went to war again against the Amangwana, the 
men of Matiwane, who had already retired up against the 
mountains, and scattered them easily: they fled from him 
almost before he had started out. In their flight they fell 
upon the Mahlubi at Bungani (Pokane) and fought against 
them and scattered them, and the Mahlubi were thus the 
first to climb the mountains, but they climbed them with 
difficulty, being pressed hard by the Amangwana. If the 
reader is to realize the terrible nature of a retreat at that 
time, he must know that the old and the children were 
left behind. The soldiers left even their wives and their 
sisters when they were tired out by the journey, because 
there was no chance to do anything else. The jackal that 
plagued Thaba Bosiu was Madwane. In Basutoland the 
'great wars' began with the Mahlubi and Amangwana. 

After this war Chaka did not again go to batde; only 
his regiments and their commanders went out, while he 
himself remained at home. Umziligazi was now at the 
head of all Chaka's commanders and was followed in rank 
by Manukuza. In the many wars in the north Mosele- 
katse (the Sesuto form of the Zulu name Umziligazi) 
and the regiments always went out, and on every 
occasion he returned all the booty to his chief, and 
although Chaka gave him a large share the greed of his 
servant was not satisfied. The real reason was that Mose- 
lekatse did not like to have any one over him or to be 
doing the will of another man instead of his own will. He 
did not like to fight for another, to capture booty for him, 
to increase his fame or to put a chief's crown upon his head; 
he wanted to do all these things for himself. He had grave 


CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 165 
doubts that, like a dog, he would derive nothing for him¬ 
self from all his exertions. In the second place Mosele- 
katse was now fully grown, a mature man, and he longed 
for marriage, but the chief had not yet thought to release 
him from his bachelorhood. For these reasons he de¬ 
termined to win himself a kingdom in some place far 
away from Chaka where he might accomplish his desires. 

It happened that he was again sent to the north to 
scatter a certain sub-chief there and plunder all his cattle. 
Moselekatse went to do this and on the way he found a 
good opportunity to speak to the warriors under his 
command. 'My men, what shall we gain by working 
honestly for Chaka and despising death for his sake ? He 
will never make us chiefs, nor does he even give us a just 
share of the booty. We capture cattle with our blood 
while he sits at home with his many wives, and when we 
return he picks out the worst and gives us those and 
takes the rest for himself—animals that really are cattle. 
We here to-day are almost past our prime, but we have 
not yet been allowed to marry, while he is married. When 
we are released we shall no longer be men, even marriage 
will have no charm. Further, when the enemy fight like 
men and we cannot capture the cattle, Chaka slays us. 
Again, Chaka is a man like other men; he is no miracle, 
no god: what he does we too can do. What he has taught 
us about war is sufficient for us. To-day we can cut loose 
from him, throw off the yoke of servitude from our necks 
and win for ourselves a kingdom of our own, where we 
will plunder and plunder for ourselves , where we will be 
chiefs and rulers. How do ye regard the matter of which 
I have spoken?' 

The warriors agreed with him, because they were tired 
of the everlasting marching and the endless fighting which 
had for its result the destruction by disease or famine or 


166 CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 
the spear of the greater part of those who returned. 
Nevertheless, they said this to Moselekatse: 'If Chaka 
hears of our intention we shall at once be merely food for 
the hyenas. If we are to accomplish anything we must go 
forward and never return to him again.' 

But Moselekatse pointed out to them: 'First of all we 
ought to have wives, Zulu wives: that is to say we ought 
to go and fetch the girls who are our contemporaries from 
home, unless we are to marry the dogs that are the other 
tribes. They are women, grown women, longing for 
marriage, and they will understand at once that we are 
bringing them fulfilment and releasing them from their 
servitude. Think not of the anger of Chaka; remember 
rather that in all his regiments the greater number of the 
companies are commanded by me. His warriors will have 
small hope of victory, for they know me well, and I know 
that even Manukuza is aweary of this heavy yoke.' 

And it was in these companies of Moselekatse that the 
saying grew up, when any of their number was killed by 
the enemy and his friends mourned and pitied him—then 
they said that he who had died was blessed because he had 
died by the spear and had fulfilled the law that the man- 
child among the Zulus ought to fulfil. 

As Moselekatse approached Chaka he sent men secretly 
to elope with the girls, and he also sent messengers to 
Chaka with a yellow bull of a beautiful hue to inform 
him that he was close at hand. However, he was not able 
to hurry because of the quantities of cattle that he brought 
with him. But the ox they drove with all their might and 
tired it out on the way and killed and ate it. Ndlebe told 
Chaka that it was a trick, that no oxen were coming and 
that Moselekatse had determined to desert him. Then 
Chaka in his anger sent many regiments under Manukuza 
to go and kill Moselekatse and all who were with him. 


CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 167 
But Manuku2a, instead of fighting against Moselekatse, 
found a good opportunity to desert, and fled with those 
regiments far beyond the Zambezi and won for himself 
the kingdom of Machakana. And this Manukuza was 
the father of Gungunyana. 

The girls of the generation of Moselekatse thrilled with 
joy when they heard this call, and said: 'Long ago we said, 
"When will a brave man of this kind appear?" Under 
Chaka's rule we are miserable, we grow up and become old 
without knowing marriage/ The women of those days 
were strong and fast runners. And so Moselekatse went 
off with young women only who had no crying babies 
on their backs. He climbed the mountains by the path 
through Zwide's land, and found the tribes of the Basuto, 
the Bechuana, and the Mapeli dwelling in peace with 
their spears not sharpened for war, and he struck at them 
like a Red Kafir who stabs once only to kill. Marvellous 
was the slaughter and many the tribes destroyed. When¬ 
ever Moselekatse reached a village he killed the grown 
men, the women, and the children, and enrolled the youths 
in his regiments. He burnt the villages and the crops 
and even the ground where he had camped. In other 
words, between him and Chaka's pursuing forces there 
was not a thing left, neither man nor beast, not an ear of 
corn nor a mealie cob, nothing that could be eaten—only 
the remains of burnt grass. In this way the forces of 
Chaka that were in pursuit of him were prevented from 
going far by hunger. 

Such was Moselekatse's flight in the course of which 
he overturned all the small tribes he passed, until he came 
to Kurumane in Bechuanaland, and through him the 
Masaroa and the Bakhothu learnt the name of Chaka—to 
their cost—and were destroyed. And after that he advanced 
to Bulawayo and Inyati. In other words the spark 


i68 CHAKA MAKES WAR AGAINST THE SOUTH 
kindled by Chaka in the east crossed the mountains with 
Moselekatse, and burnt up the tribes in the centre, but 
only scorched those in the west, so that they were maimed. 
Where the conflagration had passed nothing was left 
alive, Mokone and Mosotho, ox and lion, perished to¬ 
gether. 

Chaka was very angry indeed when his regiments 
returned without having killed Moselekatse, especially 
when he heard that Manukuza as well had fled with his 
warriors. The officers of the regiments that had pursued 
Moselekatse were burnt alive in a huge fire of wood. 
Chaka said that that was the death that they deserved, for 
they had let his enemy escape on purpose and therefore 
it was obvious that they, too, had been infected by the 
spirit of disloyalty. 


Chapter Twenty-one 


NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 
HAKA'S mind was in amaze, and he became almost 



A^mad with anger when he saw how Moselekatse and 
Manukuza had shamed him, and from now on his spear 
destroyed both his enemies and the Mazulu themselves; 
he killed without discrimination. Also from now on 
Chaka never again made any man commander-in-chief, 
but he used to give the task of leading his regiments when 
they went forth to fight to one man and then, when they 
returned, he would remove him from his office and if 
the army went out again another man was placed in 
command. Chaka was angry, suspicious, and he put to 
death many innocent men simply because he feared that 
they might imitate those two traitors. 

In those days although spears were in existence they 
were procured with difficulty and were made of iron-stone. 
About this time, when people were digging for clay far off 
near the Zambezi they came upon another ore that could 
easily be worked up to make spears. The discovery of 
this stone enabled Chaka to kill very many innocent 
men, more than any one could have imagined possible. 

Chaka had a very brave warrior who served him faith¬ 
fully and with the utmost devotion, and the regiments all 
loved him: his name was Nongogo. When Chaka saw 
how the regiments loved Nongogo he was jealous, 
because he wanted all their love for himself, and he called 
Nongogo. Nongogo on his way to the chief's hut left 
his spears at the wall of the city, as he was bound to do, 
and as soon as he came in sight of the chief he sang the 
praise songs of the cattle, 'Bayete, Lord of lords. Thou 
elephant, thou lion with the sharp claws. Thou terror of 
men. Bayete Father. Bayete Heaven.' 


i7o NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 

Then he threw himself on the ground and with his 
belly pressed to the earth crawled forward (this was the 
fashion in which Chaka was always greeted). Nongogo 
crawled on until he reached Chaka and then stood up. 
He stood in front of Chaka prepared to do whatsoever 
his chief might command, willing to accomplish it just 
as the chief desired, however hard it might be; he was 
even ready to die in the attempt rather than to return 
without having performed the wish of his chief. 

When he had come near, Chaka said: 'Take thou two 
hundred young men and go whither I send thee. I hear 
that in a country that I wot not of, far in the north, there 
can be found full easily the iron of which spears are made 
and full easily can it be worked. I send thee as a spy that 
thou mayest see if it is so indeed and mayest return with 
it. Learn thou the manner in which it is dug, and the 
manner in which it is worked.' 

The way in which he spoke made it clear to Nongogo 
that Chaka was trying to kill him by cunning; he saw, too, 
that some one had been slandering him to the chief. 
He left his chief very sad at heart and started to go where 
he had been sent, although he did not know where it 
was. Also he was sad because of the smallness of the 
number of men ordered to go with him. 

On the march the tribes fought against him, and 
harassed him and killed his men, until he was forced to 
send back to Chaka to beg for an addition to his force. 
But Chaka refused; those he had with him should suffice. 
Nongogo went on until he reached the spot and started 
to return with the stone. And on his return march, one 
day, he fought a big battle. At sunrise he found himself 
surrounded by a large force of the enemy. The Zulus 
stood shoulder to shoulder, formed a square and fought 
manfully. When the sun set most of the enemy were dead. 


NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 171 

but Nongogo was left with only ten men whom he con¬ 
tinued to exhort to die like sons of Chaka, let their last 
resting place be the heaped up bodies of their foes. The 
enemy saw that they were all being killed by the Mazulu 
and it was clear that even when the last Zulu was dead 
probably not more than one of their own men would be 
surviving and that would profit them nothing. So they 
let them be and departed. 

Nongogo and his ten men were afraid to return by the 
road by which they had come and so they made for the 
west in order to avoid any encounters. And they went 
through the desert where they all died of thirst—all 
except Nongogo and one other who survived. These two 
walked on, their feet swollen and blistered, weak from 
hunger and thirst and tired out by the march and the 
fighting. Nongogo had wounds all over his body and 
should have been the first of the two to die; only his 
determination kept his body and soul together until he 
could appear once more before his chief. They reached 
Chaka's country in great pain, unable to walk any farther. 
So great had been their sufferings that many people who 
had known them before would not have known them if 
they had seen them now, for in their present state even 
the wild animals would not trouble to molest them. 
Lions came up to them and smelt at them and passed by, 
hyenas, too, merely sniffed at them and passed by, for they 
were no longer men, but only skin and bones. 

When they had nearly reached their chief, when they 
first sighted the city in the distance, they saw the regi¬ 
ments at drill—fine young healthy men. Nongogo's 
companion was grieved and wept; he wept because though 
they had loved Chaka with such a great love he did not 
love them. He wept, too, for their recent sufferings 
during which most of their men had died. The sun set. 


172 NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 

and they could not reach home, but slept again on the 
veld; but this man never woke again, he did not live to 
see the sun rise on the morrow. When the sun rose 
Nongogo got up, shook off the dew that had fallen on 
him, and when he looked at his friend he discovered that 
the dew was white about his eyelids and even on his 
mouth. His eyes were turned upwards in death, his face 
was pointed towards Umgungundlovu in the city of his 
chief, but he himself belonged to the day that had passed. 
And now all the pains of the journey they had shared 
together fell upon Nongogo alone; his eyes were dim and 
misty, his ears dull, there was a pain in his head and 
chest, his feet and knees trembled and he could not go 
forward. 

When the shadows began to fall he reached the city 
and passed through the entrance in the wall, and none 
spake to him. He went to the hut of the chief in front of 
the court and begged to see the chief and permission was 
granted. As soon as he came within sight of Chaka he 
murmured something that could not be heard, for his 
jaws were dry and stiff, and then he crawled on his belly 
towards Chaka, still holding his spear, contrary to the 
rule. As soon as Chaka saw him he felt a sudden panic 
because he resembled the tikoloshi (water devil), he had 
seen at the river when he was bathing, and now he won¬ 
dered what brought it here then, in the day-time, for all to 
see. 

When Nongogo reached Chaka he stood up swaying, 
for he could not stand straight. Chaka glanced at him and 
saw that his spear was the spear of a Zulu. He looked at 
Nongogo and saw that his blanket was in tatters and his 
body full of suppurating holes. Blood, too, was coming 
out from the wounds that his feet had received on the 
journey, and drops of blood marked his passage to Chaka. 


NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 173 

Nongogo took his spear and gave it to Chaka and took 
out the stone he had been sent to fetch and gave it also, 
without a word. Then he took off his tattered blanket, 
still keeping silent, and his broken body was there for 
Chaka and his guard to see. 

He murmured: T strove to perform thy command, O 
chief.' And Chaka said: 'Nongogo. Is it thou, Nongogo ? ' 
And he answered: Tt is I, thy servant, O chief.' All were 
silent—astonished that the Nongogo whom they had 
known as a fine tall young man should be this shapeless 
object, resembling something that had died. Chaka: 
'Where are thy men?' He asked it in anger, for he saw 
that Nongogo had come back alive when he had never 
expected him to return. Nongogo told all the story of 
his journey; then Chaka said: 'Take this dog hence and 
strangle him. He hath killed my men and now he lieth to 
me. Furthermore, I said that he should come with stones 
enough to make many spears and here he cometh with 
one only.' The executioners came near but Nongogo 
spake again, and now his voice was clear so that all could 
understand: 'Chaka—I do not call thee Chief—it is 
reported that thou art a man unlike other men and to-day 
I believe it. I have performed thy hard commands that 
none other could perform, and the reward I receive from 
thee is to die. But . . .' He did not finish his speech. In 
his anger Chaka smote one of the executioners saying that 
they had delayed to perform his command; the others 
seized and carried him away and then when they reached 
the place of execution they found that he too now belonged 
to the day that had passed. 

The other men of the chief's guard in their astonish¬ 
ment and grief, when they saw what had befallen No- 
ngogo, forgot to praise their chief and to marvel at his 
wisdom and the righteousness of his judgements, and they 


174 NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 

too were killed, for Chaka said that by their silence they 
had condemned the act of their chief. Such was the end of 
the expedition of Nongogo that was sent out to spy. 

After Nongogo had been sent to the north Chaka be¬ 
came suspicious of another of his commanders, Mnyamana, 
and said to him: 'My cattle remain with the Maswazi 
and profit me naught. Go thou and fetch them. Take 
thy troop with thee and depart.' When Chaka spoke in 
this way whoever was sent knew that his fate was sealed. 

Mnyamana went away, and on his journey he thought of 
what plan he could follow. When he arrived he hid his 
men in the bush and they discovered all the paths through 
the bush and the natural strongholds and they saw where 
the cattle were grazing. By great good fortune the Maswazi 
were about to make an expedition against the north and 
when they had gone Mnyamana captured all their cattle. 
The alarm was given, but when the Maswazi arrived 
Mnyamana had already left their difficult bush-infested 
country and the strongholds and the caves and was on 
the high flats, where one Zulu was the equal of five men 
of other tribes. So the cattle were lost to the Maswazi, 
but they cost the commander of the troop, Mnyamana, 
his life. 

When Mnyamana reached the chief's hut he greeted 
him with joy, although Chaka looked angry, for he had 
heard already that he was coming driving before him a 
considerable herd of cattle without having experienced 
any difficulty, while Chaka himself in person had often 
failed, although he had all his regiments with him. He 
said: 'Mnyamana, thou hast returned?' 'Yea, Chief.' 
'Where are the oxen that I sent thee to bring ?' 'They are 
here. Chief, yonder.' 'Where are thy men?' 'They are 
there, Chief, with the oxen.' Chaka was silent for a long 
time, while he devised a plan, then he said: 'How didst 


NONGOGO AND MNYAMANA 175 

thou win them ?' Mnyamana told him. 'Thou dog, thou 
hast stolen the oxen of the Maswazi, but I did not bid thee 
steal them but carry them off by fair means in war. 
Strangle this thief that is afraid of the sight of the foe. 
He hath shamed my name, for the tribes will say that I 
live by theft and not by a knowledge of war, which is 
the true work of man.' And the executioners took him 
and carried him out to die. 

Such was the reward—a shameful one—that Chaka 
gave to his brave men and the commanders of his 
regiments. This murder of Nongogo and Mnyamana was 
the first severe shock that the commanders and officers 
received, and the regiments felt it as well, for when a 
commander was killed his men were killed also. People's 
minds became more and more disturbed by Chaka's 
rule when they saw that his spear did not spare even men 
who had served him so well. Dingana and Mhlangana 
saw the mood of the people from the very beginning, and 
instead of trying to calm them they fanned the flame in 
secret. 


Chapter Twenty-two 


THE DEATH OF NANDI 
•JD Chaka sent his regiments fully armed to the 



-ZA. north far beyond St. Lucia Bay to scatter the chiefs 
there and plunder their cattle. But these regiments met 
with a terrible end in that country. They died by 
thousands or returned having achieved nothing. At this 
time Chaka planned to send other regiments of his to a 
place near where the first had been so that they might 
become accustomed to the country before going to 
battle. But before he sent them he caused his army to go 
towards the south where the Maphoto ambushed them 
and cut them off and killed large numbers of them so that 
they returned empty-handed. 

When that army returned home, Chaka was very angry 
and seized the commanders and burnt out their eyes with 
bars of iron heated in the fire. He said that their eyes were 
of no use in their heads. What were they doing with 
them when the Maphoto cut off their retreat in this way ? 
The commander-in-chief of the army was burnt alive. 
All this was done in the presence of the army that had 
gone to war against the Maphoto. Immediately afterwards 
the same army was sent to the north, on the very day on 
which they had arrived home. They began their march 
tired out, having had no rest, and therefore many of them 
fell victims to the terrible diseases peculiar to the countries 
of the north. At that time thirty thousand men died of 
disease. 

As soon as his regiments had departed Chaka asked 
Malunga what it was that was causing the armies of the 
Mazulu to return empty-handed. Malunga said: T doubt 
not that the reason is that thou who art Zulu art no longer 
accustomed to kill with thine own hand. Thou dost only 


THE DEATH OF NANDI 177 

hear the report of men's death. A dog that has received 
the proper medicines in due meed, if it is not allowed to 
hunt in the end, tears to pieces both men and goats. So 
also a man in whose body cuts have been made for potent 
medicines, if he does not continue killing, the medicines 
turn their potency against him, and kill him.' 

It was not likely that the matter would end there in the 
case of a man like Chaka who loved to see blood. He 
gathered together all the women who had been won in 
war as well as those whose husbands had been disabled 
by disease in the north or in battle and said: 'The witch¬ 
doctors say that it is through the sorcery practised by all 
of these that my regiments have returned empty-handed 
and have been destroyed by disease in such numbers.' 
It was not likely that the Mazulu would tolerate all the 
blame being placed on the men who had returned without 
booty; therefore they killed more of the women than 
Chaka had either ordered or expected. 

Chaka chose for himself among the tribe the most 
beautiful of the young women, those who had a fine 
appearance, were of a light colour, and had beautiful 
bodies. Huts were built for them, they were fed on meat 
and their skins shone. Chaka used to go in to them and 
pluck the flower of their youth, and when their breasts 
had fallen and it was said that their bloom had gone he 
passed them on to his councillors. Of these girls with 
whom he lived in this way some were killed on that 
occasion. All the time that Chaka was uniting with the 
daughters of his people in this way his adviser Ndlebe 
was giving the strictest orders that every child born to 
these girls should be killed at birth, so that no child of 
Chaka might live. When the girls wept and bewailed 
their children Chaka said: 'It is right for a woman to 
weep for her child and since it is a grievous thing to part 

N 


1 7 8 THE DEATH OF NANDI 

a mother from her small child I will permit you to go where 
your children have gone.' With these words he caused 
them to be killed. Any woman can understand the grief 
and sorrow of these mothers. Ndlebe's sharp ears helped 
him in carrying out the work of lolling all the children 
born to Chaka. Nandi had often urged Chaka to have a 
wife of his own who would bear him children and heirs, 
and not to keep always with a great crowd of women. 
But Chaka refused and said he did not desire children. 
Because she longed for grandchildren Nandi stole one of 
these girls, a daughter of Qwabe, and hid her afar off until 
her child was born and then the girl returned to Chaka 
and left the child where it was. 

Later Nandi could not restrain her longing. She 
wanted to see the child of Chaka's own blood and so she 
sent for him. The child came and it was pretended that it 
was on a visit to its elders. Soon Ndlebe knew of it and 
told Chaka, and Chaka kept a watch on his mother and 
noticed that she loved the child dearly. One day Chaka 
came suddenly upon his mother when she was at her ease 
playing with the child and asked her why she should care 
for it. Nandi said she had merely taken it in her arms for 
a moment. Chaka told his mother to put the child in 
the enclosure round the hut, and then he drew near and 
came and bent over the child and his shadow fell upon it. 
And as soon as that happened the child died. This was the 
way in which Chaka always knew who were his children. 

Chaka was now aflame with anger. In the evening he 
went to his mother's hut and asked her why she persisted 
in giving him children when he did not desire them? 
And then he killed his mother in the same way that he 
had killed Noliwe. When Nandi was quite dead he 
seemed to feel once more something gnawing at his 
heart, just as when he had killed Noliwe. 


THE DEATH OF NANDI 179 

Early in the morning the report began to go round 
that Nandi was dead. Then Chaka poured dust on himself 
and wept and cried: 'Alas, alas. My mother is dead, dead. 
Alas, alas. From other huts the smoke goes up, but no 
smoke from mine.' 

After this a complete change came over Chaka. He 
sent Ndlebe to go round his capital and see who were not 
weeping with their chief. And Chaka said if they were 
not weeping it was clear that it was they who had be¬ 
witched his mother, for all deaths are caused by witch¬ 
craft. Some people, for fear of being killed, poured snuff 
and dust in their eyes to make the tears come so that the 
spear might pass them by. Chaka took men and placed 
them on all the roads leading to the chief's hut to see who 
were coming at their ease or were not weeping. All such 
were placed in a certain gorge. He slaughtered quantities 
of oxen and all who ate of their flesh, or anything at all 
that was food, were placed in the gorge, because they had 
rejoiced in food when their chief wept. The regiment 
that had pursued Moselekatse was brought and placed in 
the gorge, after being deprived of their weapons. For it 
was said that these troubles had come because of them: 
they had not carried out their orders. 

Chaka commanded that all the kin of Nongogo should 
be brought, for he had reviled his chief at his death—all 
his kin, that is to say his whole clan. And they too were 
placed in the gorge. Chaka commanded all the women 
that were companions of Nandi and of her generation 
to be gathered together: and they too were taken to the 
gorge. Previously a conspiracy had been made against 
Chaka, and he had been stabbed with a spear at a feast. 
And now the tribe of the man who had stabbed him was 
gathered together and placed in the gorge. The gorge 
was now nearly full, but Chaka commanded that all the 


N 2 


i8o THE DEATH OF NANDI 

kin of Moselekatse should be brought, that is to say all 
who had been ruled by Zwide. And they too were taken 
to the gorge. 

And now he ordered his regiments to kill all in the 
gorge that the curse might depart from his people. And 
as soon as the regiments appeared a cry went up, a pitiful 
cry of men about to be lulled. Some begged for mercy: 
they had been late in coming because the way was long. 
Others did not attempt to plead, but died cursing. While 
the regiments were doing the killing, Chaka came to the 
edge of the gorge to watch the slaughter and their cries 
sounded pleasant in his ears. 

At that time the vultures ate till they were satisfied. 
The hyenas ate and lay down. But it could not be noticed 
that they had eaten any of the dead at all. A stench rose, a 
strong odour. The spring near the gorge became haunted 
and infected. The corpses were thrown into the creeks in 
the gorge and into a ditch called Udonga-luka-Tatiyana. 

After this Chaka said his mother must surely be at 
peace where she was, for so many men and women had 
accompanied her at her death and made a bed for her; 
they would be able also to light a fire for her. In some 
ways Chaka's mother irked him, for she often hindered 
him when he wanted to kill men. 

This ditch of Udonga-luka-Tatiyana was filled twice 
over by Chaka with the people he had killed. 

This terrible slaughter caused the wild animals to take 
up their abode near the village itself and startled the 
Mazulu and also the regiments, for the spear was being 
turned against the men of their own country instead of 
against their enemies. Men's hearts finally forsook Chaka 
and there was great discontent among the commanders. 
He had shown indeed that he was a man unlike other 
men, as Nongogo had said. 


THE DEATH OF NANDI 181 

A few days after this Isanusi came to Chaka. He was 
passing by, but he turned out of his way to come to him. 
Chaka told Isanusi how his sway had grown and that he, 
Chaka, was the one and only chief remaining on earth. 
He said, too, that the number of his warriors was now equal 
to the stars in multitude. Isanusi said that he rejoiced to 
hear such tidings: Chaka should hold firm and go forward; 
and he further said: 'I have accomplished for thee all 
the desires of thy heart. Prepare thyself, therefore, that 
when I return thou mayest be able to give me the heifers 
for my reward and the reward of my companions.' 
Chaka asked when he would return and he said: 'I 
cannot tell thee clearly, for a witch-doctor's journeys are 
never known. Sometimes he is delayed and cannot go 
whither he has planned, for men detain him. But I will 
try to hasten to thee.' 

When Isanusi had departed Chaka began to review 
his cattle and to choose out those he would give to Isanusi 
—a great multitude such as no witch-doctor had ever 
received before. He placed them on one side to wait for 
their owner to come. 


Chapter Twenty-three 


UNQUENCHABLE THIRST 
HAKA'S whole life was filled with important 



happenings, with marvels and mysteries that the 
ordinary person cannot understand. We have chosen 
out one side of his fife only which suited best with our 
purpose, for it has not been our intention to tell every¬ 
thing. And now that we are at the end of our story we 
will remind the reader of what has gone before. 

Chaka used the spear made for him by Isanusi to kill 
without mercy and soon became famous, until at last he 
won his mighty chieftainship. With the armies belonging 
to him as a great chief he made war against the south, 
destroying everything and sparing none. But those who 
fled before him wrought far more havoc. In the north 
too, and wherever Chaka fought, it was the same. When 
we take into account those killed by Matiwane when 
pursued by Chaka, by the Batlokoa under Sekonyela, 
by Moselekatse and by Chaka himself in his own country 
among the Mazulu, together with the young children 
killed at his command, we find that the total number is 
very great. And when we add to them Noliwe,Nongogo, 
and Mnyamana, and Nandi and the women of Chaka, we 
find that the number killed is truly terrible. If we are to 
have a proper grasp of the number killed by Chaka in the 
various ways we have described, we must imagine a 
number three or four times as great as all the Basuto— 
men, women, and children—as being collected together 
and then killed. 

It was Chaka who was the cause of the 'great wars' 
which made men plunder and rob one another and com¬ 
pelled them to wander over the face of the earth as they 
had never done before. It was Chaka who caused the 


UNQUENCHABLE THIRST 183 

introduction of cannibalism, that vilest of all practices 
when men hunt each other like animals—for food. 

When the great chief Chaka had reached about the 
middle of his alloted span, at the time when a man's life 
is a happy one, when if he has worked he is beginning to 
enjoy the fruits of his labour, and to see the calves and the 
goats he has tended increasing, and to drink of their milk 
and eat of their flesh, and watches the children born to 
him disporting themselves, then it was that in Chaka's 
case he was visited with terrible doubts. He was so 
visited although he was a chief; he did not rejoice in his 
mighty chieftainship and his boundless riches, after he 
had obtained the desire of his heart. Chaka was a supreme 
chief, the great ones of the land did homage to him, 
bowing low before him and crawling on their bellies 
with their faces to the ground. Where he sat an attendant 
ever stood shading him with a shield. Where he sat his 
councillors ever answered him with words of praise, or 
gazed with veneration, or granted him the choicest and 
most honourable greetings. But in the midst of all this 
homage the most terrible doubts began to visit him. 

The number of his warriors was like the stars of the 
heaven for multitude; never had any chief had as many. 
Furthermore they were never conquered. They fought 
with the winds and the storms and overcame them. How 
much more did they overcome men. Chaka should have 
rejoiced in this, when he thought of all these things of 
which he was the cause. But in the midst of this glory and 
these riches he began to be visited with doubts and his 
spirit was troubled. 

Now what was it that his heart longed for and craved 
and desired so much? What was it for which he was 
athirst and could not find? In spite of everything his 
heart had no peace or happiness. All his possessions 


184 UNQUENCHABLE THIRST 

seemed distasteful to him, his thoughts were swayed this 
way and that, his mind was not stable, it was without any 
fixed purpose. Chaka had been a warrior. As he grew up 
he had seen much blood spilt—by his own hand. And 
now he did not go forth to battle with his armies any 
more. He longed to see men die—killed by himself; he 
longed to kill. It was the absence of this thing that 
caused his sickness. He wanted his regiments to go on 
spilling blood at home where he was, while he sat idly by. 

In order to subdue his heart-ache he held a great feast, 
and while the feast was proceeding he cast his eyes about 
to see whom he could remove from the earth, whom he 
could use to quench his lust for blood. Some were 
killed at the feast itself for performing badly and spoiling 
the songs of the chief and his feast. And some people 
whose voices were not good for fear of being killed kept 
silent so that they might not be heard. But their silence 
brought about their death: they had disgraced the feast 
of the chief. At the present day religious ardour often 
causes people to weep. In the same way in those be¬ 
nighted times people often used to weep at the songs 
and dances, especially if they were old and could no 
longer join in the games. On that occasion the hearts of 
many people were stirred when they saw the warriors 
clothed all alike, each company in its own distinctive 
apparel and when they thought of what they themselves 
had been once. So they wept and some abandoned them¬ 
selves to their great grief and said that the feast of the chief 
had stirred their hearts indeed. 

Chaka asked why they wept and they answered him and 
then he said: 'Surely it is a marvel that ye are made to 
weep when ye see my warriors drill, but do not weep at 
me who am myself a marvel, the author of all these things. 
For ye are made to weep by my men and the beauty of 


UNQUENCHABLE THIRST 185 

their apparel, but not by me who gave them their apparel 
and caused it to be made. Thus ye have shamed me.' 
With these words Chaka raised up his light spear and 
pointed to the sky and the people were killed. Thus they 
were wrong when they thought the chief would be glad 
if they were made to weep at his feast. And those who had 
shown skill in the games and the best among the singers 
were killed also, for they had caused the people to weep, 
and had deprived the chief of the honour due to him 
alone. And now the people were at a loss to know what 
would please the chief, since neither singing badly nor 
well nor total silence would save them from being killed. 
These of whom we have spoken were all killed during the 
day while the feast was in progress. 

In the middle of the night when all had gone to 
their huts, Chaka took his companies of warriors and 
killed most of the people who had come to the 
feast at his command, saying that they had plotted 
against him. And the servants of the chief, the men 
entrusted with this work, carried out their orders with no 
noise. And the lives of many hundreds of innocent 
people were taken from them that night and they became 
as if they had never been. And now Chaka's heart began 
to rejoice, life for him began to seem pleasant once more 
and to regain its savour after this act of his. His food 
tasted well, his thirst was relieved, his pain lessened and 
he became a man again. And on several occasions he did 
similar acts in order to dull the pain that was racking his 
heart. A feast became a means to easy killing when all the 
people were gathered together. 


Chapter Twenty-Jour 


BAD DREAMS 


s[D from that time on Chaka never again knew joy or 



-aTa. any happiness as in the old days. Continually he had 
bad dreams which frightened him and drove away his sleep, 
and often when he awoke all memory of them had gone 
from him. A few days after the feast he had the following 
dream. He dreamed of his life from his boyhood to the 
day he met withlsanusi and then he awoke: the dream was 
too painful. He slept again and his sleep became disturbed, 
and again he had the same dream, and when he came to 
the meeting with Isanusi he awoke a second time. Three 
times in one night he had the same dream, beginning at 
the same point and ending at the same point, and the 
extraordinary part was that he always awoke when he 
came to the meeting with Isanusi, although at that time 
we do not know why he should have feared Isanusi after 
he had shown himself such a staunch friend. 

When he awoke the third time he did not sleep again, 
but remained awake till morning. And while he was 
awake he had no recollection of his dream, but remem¬ 
bered only its distressing nature. When the sun rose he 
felt worried and sullen; nothing pleased him. He was 
angry if people even spoke to him or greeted him. The 
next night as soon as he lay down to rest he had the very 
same dream again; then he awoke. He went out to the 
hut of his favourite—the one he loved best of all—a 
young girl of a beautiful figure and a lovely appearance. 
She had a clear smooth skin and was the most beautiful 
of all the women of the Mazulu. When Chaka entered, 
he found that her skin was like goose flesh, not soft and 
smooth as before, and her voice was hoarse and irritated 
him and grated on his ears. He left her in the middle of 


BAD DREAMS 187 

the night not having found the relief he sought, and when 
he entered her hut a second time he discovered her as 
before—or worse. But he revenged himself by killing 
some other of his concubines that night because they had 
not been able to calm his aching heart, and thinking that 
sorcery might be the cause he determined to leave his 
home and go into the veld where he could stay until 
Isanusi came and 'doctored' him and the village. Strange 
thing it is that it never occurred to Chaka to tell his bad 
dreams to Malunga or Ndlebe, although they were there 
with him all the time. 

Chaka left his home, taking with him two regiments 
called 'Chaka's Own' and 'The Bees', and went towards 
the south. He caused these regiments to take up their 
position there since they could not all remain in the same 
place. And he also sent out a new regiment called 'The 
Dukuza' and the other two regiments accompanied it 
part of the way (his intention was to return with them). 
Then he went himself and he thought of sending back 
' The Dukuza', but in his own heart he knew what it was 
pursuing him, tormenting him, and giving him no peace, 
day or night. And that was why he went to find rest and 
relief in the veld far from men. 

Chaka came to Dukuza where he had sent the new 
regiment called 'The Dukuza', and the first night he had a 
dream worse than any before. He dreamed that he was 
asleep and that a spear pierced his heart. He awoke in 
great pain, seized his spear and shield, sprang to his feet, 
and looked round: everywhere stillness, all peacefully 
sleeping. Again he lay down, for his eyes were heavy 
with want of sleep for many successive nights. And as 
soon as sleep came to him he saw a Zulu spear piercing 
his heart. He started up in terror and stood there looking 
round: stillness, not a sound, save only the heavy breathing 


188 BAD DREAMS 

of sleeping men. He did not sleep again but wandered 
about to prevent sleep, but he felt terrified and trembled 
continually. He marvelled at his dreams. 

At last he sat back on his haunches with his knees bent, 
in order to give relief to his legs which were weak with 
fright, and while he was sitting thus a jackal howled far 
far away on the veld. Chaka heard it and leaped up, 
thinking it was the war-cries of his pursuers. And then 
he roamed about through the darkness of the night. 
Again the jackal howled and again Chaka started with 
fright. The animal's cry went through him and was like 
the war-cry of the man who held the spear which he had 
seen piercing his heart. Until dawn a dog kept up its 
howling far away in the caves. It was one of the dogs 
of the people Chaka had scattered and killed and destroyed 
when he killed also those who had come to him to beg for 
peace and a truce to strife. It seemed as if the dog were 
howling for its masters, cruelly slain while they had 
begged for their lives, and now it was left alone with its 
grief which caused it to cry out as it roamed to and fro 
not knowing where it was going. 

Chaka was angry that others slept while he could not, 
and he killed nine men that night; he pierced them 
through as they lay sleeping on the ground. 

We must tell the reader that Chaka was now in the 
same neighbourhood as when he began his wars and 
killed countless multitudes, when the number of dogs 
increased, and they harassed the frightened people moving 
about, and became wild and roamed in troops. Where 
once had been large villages there was now waste land, 
places to make men's hair stand up, devastated regions. 

As Chaka thought of his acts and listened to the cries 
in the night he was very frightened and the tears trickled 
down. But his tears, instead of lessening his pain (in the way 


BAD DREAMS 189 

thattears can lessenand soothethe pain of a wounded spirit), 
only increased it. He continued to pace up and down and 
wander about, although it was night. Something within 
(he did not know what) was driving him on and giving 
him no peace. Dawn began to show and other men awoke 
from sleep. And then at last Chaka slept. His sleep was 
short but deep and it caused his head to ache. 

He awoke when the sun had risen and called for 
Malunga to tell him what had occurred, for this time he 
could remember his dreams. But Malunga was not there, 
and none knew where he had gone, although at sunset he 
had been in his place. He called for Ndlebe, but neither 
was he there, and people told Chaka he had intended to go 
back to the village where there was plenty of food, and 
spend the night with the girls of the chief. And now for 
the first time Chaka saw his danger: people were going 
off as they wished, for no reason and without permission 
from him. He was choking with anger: why had they 
disappeared just when he needed them most and required 
their help and advice ? 

The sun set and he was still despondent: no respite. 
He paced up and down and would not sit; it was as if his 
stomach within him was being burnt with hot boiling 
water. His eyes became small and receded far back into 
his head; they appeared vacant, like a drunkard's after a 
debauch. He was dizzy, weak, and clearly in pain. He 
felt faint and his mind was tempest-tossed and full of 
strange horrors, which he saw, but as in a mist: the 
clearest of them all was the vision of blood. At one 
moment his body was covered in sweat; at the next, cold 
as ice. Continually he paced to and fro, a pitiful sight. 
He was like a horse suffering from colic which runs here 
and there, not seeing where it is going, driven only by 
its pain. He paced up and down and would not sit, like 


1 9 o BAD DREAMS 

the mad horse of the Zambezi suffering from the disease 
of that country, which as it goes bites itself and tears its flesh 
with its teeth, giving itself no rest, because of the disease. 
It is a distressing sight and provokes pity in the heart of 
the beholder. Chaka was in no way dissimilar and those 
who saw him imagined that he must be ill. 

When the sun had finished setting he went out and 
took with him about ten men, truly brave warriors whom 
he trusted. He knew that these were men who would 
willingly die w T ith him; their bodies would be found by 
his body. He took them and slept with them a little 
apart from the three regiments, so that he might be at 
peace, far from sorcery. 

Chaka's two younger brothers, Dingana and Mhla- 
ngana, had gone on an expedition against the north at his 
orders, but they turned back while on the march, saying 
that they were ill. They came to his hut soon after Chaka 
had left the village, so they sent to greet their chief and 
inform him of their return. When Chaka heard the tidings 
he sent a runner in haste to bring them, for he thought that 
if he saw his brothers maybe he would find comfort and 
the pain within him would become less. And as the sun 
set his eyes were fixed on the road and he tried to see 
into the far distance, if perchance he might be able to see 
his brothers. Dingana and Mhlangana had observed for 
some time that the tribe was weary of Chaka's rule and 
while they were journeying whither they had been sent 
all became clear to them and they perceived that the 
warriors no longer knew for certain what was their duty 
and what was not. So they returned, intent on killing 
Chaka, if the occasion should arise, and seizing the chief¬ 
tainship for themselves. Meanwhile Chaka was awaiting 
them, all unknowing. 


Chapter Tiventy-jive 


UDONGA-LUKA-TATIYANA 
HE sun set and the shades of night began to fall 



ii- and to lengthen out: darkness came and men slept. 
And Chaka was overpowered with sleep, for his head was 
weary. And when his sleep became lighter his bad dreams 
returned to him, coming like evil spirits worse than the 
tikoloshi. He dreamt, and that night his dream was long 
and unbroken. He dreamt he saw his chief Dingiswayo 
and the noble acts he did when he tried to instil a spirit 
of humanity into the tribe, and he saw himself bringing 
to naught those high endeavours. Then he awoke and 
roamed about to dispel sleep. Again and again he looked 
out on the road through the darkness watching for 
Dingana and Mhlangana, his brothers. But his legs were 
tired and he sat down on the ground, and as he sat he was 
overpowered with sleep and dreamed again. 

In his dream he saw himself from the moment of his 
meeting with Isanusi to when he acquired the chieftain¬ 
ship. All his deeds passed slowly before his eyes, but he 
wished they had passed quickly. He saw all the wars he 
had fought even more clearly than when they had taken 
place and all who had been killed—he saw them dying. 
He saw the tribes scattering before him in flight,devouring 
each other as they went. All the acts he had committed 
during his chieftainship he saw. He saw the journey of 
Nongogo to spy out the land and the pains and perils he 
endured; he saw his death. Mnyamana's sufferings too 
he saw. The slaughter of the countless innocent women 
captured in war together with their babes—he saw it all 
clearly, as one by one they were strangled. 

And when the dream reached the slaughter of his own 
women Chaka felt oppressed and he awoke. He tried to 


192 UDONGA-LUKA-TATIYANA 

stand, but could not; he tried to shout, but his mouth 
was stopped; something was holding him fast to the 
ground. At length the strength to rise returned to him; 
he became wide awake and seizing his spear stood upon 
his feet. He looked round but all was still. The men he 
was with were sleeping while three warriors a little 
distance away paced round the hut, on guard as their 
chief had ordered. 

And now Chaka saw that the time of his death was at 
hand and his only complaint was that he was on the veld 
far from men, where it was impossible for him to die the 
death he desired. But none the less he wrought guile¬ 
fully. He went to those watchers of the night and said: 
'What time of night is it, watchmen ?' And they said: 
'It is midnight.' He spoke with them of this sickness 
that was vexing him, and said that he was being bewitched 
by this regiment called the 'Dukuza', and that he must 
k i ll them. He sent to the regiments to fetch them and 
when the ' Dukuza ' had come he divided them into two 
divisions and sent the first to some small villages near the 
Umvoti to kill all the people there and not leave one alive, 
for it was they who were bewitching him. The remaining 
division he divided into three, and stationed in three 
places, saying that if the people of those villages passed 
near them in their flight they must kill them all. Then he 
called for 'Chaka's Own' when the others had gone, and 
commanded that each of the three divisions should be 
killed where it stood, and this was done without difficulty 
for the numbers were small. Thus Chaka used Mazulu to 
kill Mazulu without their knowing it. 

The division that had gone to those villages was killed 
on its return by 'Chaka's Own', and while the fighting 
was proceeding Chaka went to the 'Bees' and sent them 
in support, saying that the enemy had come. But they 


UDONGA-LUKA-TATIYANA 193 

soon saw that these were other Mazulu and they refrained 
from fighting. 

There is nothing finer than when a good man perceives 
the good deeds he is doing, just as there is nothing more 
distressful than when an evil man perceives his evil deeds. 

When a man thinks of his evil deeds it is very painful 
for him, but when he has a vision of them being done a 
second time, a vision of himself as he was when he did 
them, and sees himself doing them again in exactly the 
same way, then indeed it is unimaginably painful. Thus 
we cannot imagine what terrible burning pains Chaka's 
dreams caused him when he saw himself again at the time 
of his evil deeds. 

There was a small gorge near the capital, full of deep 
ditches. A little above it and opposite the village was the 
spring from which the water was drawn. This was the 
gorge where Chaka had killed the people and cast their 
dead bodies into the crevices; this was where the vultures 
and hyenas had become so sated that they took up their 
abode there. Here, too, the cowards had been killed, and 
all whom Chaka had killed during his life and when he 
mourned for Nandi. Never again was water drawn from 
that spring before sunrise or after dusk, because of the 
angry spirits there. Afterwards, as the slaughter increased 
the spring became haunted and evil spirits prevented the 
flow of water. Even to-day none will pass by that gorge 
when the sun has set. In that gorge remain the spirits 
which could not reach heaven, their home. It is called, 
together with its ditches, Udonga-luka-Tatiyana, but we 
do not know what it was called previously: this was the 
name it was given in Chaka's day. 

We have said that Chaka sat down to rest his tired 
limbs and fell fast asleep and dreamed again. He saw 
himself at his hut Umgungundlovu and the gorge of 

o 


i 9 4 UDONGA-LUKA-TATIYANA 

Udonga-luka-Tatiyana seemed to be spread out below 
him. He felt a strong wind blowing, a hurricane, which 
was followed by a great din of people crying out, and at 
that moment he saw the gorge. The people he had killed 
were there raging with anger, but some merely looked at 
him in pity without saying a word. He saw the screech 
owl circling round in anger and crying, 'Chaka, Chaka, 
Chaka.' It was clacking its beak. And Chaka saw, too, all 
the evil spirits gathered there, and his friend, the Lord of the 
Deep Waters,as well. And all were looking towards Chaka. 

And as Chaka watched them thus in his dream Isanusi 
came with his companions. The three of them remained 
absolutely silent as if they were rejoicing over Chaka with 
an inhuman joy, like the joy of one who has overcome 
his enemy whom he has prepared himself to kill. It was 
the joy of those who perceive their day has come. And 
Isanusi said: 'Chaka, to-day I have come to seek my 
reward. I told thee that when I should pass here again 
thou wast to await me with all preparations made; there 
was to be no delay; thou wast to give me what is mine 
with no disputation. For I have worked well for thee, 
and thou hast won the chieftainship and power and 
honour and riches and great fame.' 

Harmless as were these words the pain they caused to 
Chaka was terrible. He perceived that Isanusi was count¬ 
ing up the multitudes that had gone to fill Udonga-luka- 
Tatiyana during the years of his chieftainship, for as he 
spoke his eyes were fixed on the gorge. When Chaka 
heard these words he seemed to leap up in his sleep and 
fall on one of Isanusi's companions and kill him. He 
awoke and looked this way and that, trembling, and all he 
saw was that the night had gone. Beyond that there was 
nothing for him to see, except that he knew that he had 
been dreaming. 


UDONGA-LUKA-TATIYANA 195 

The sun rose and with great difficulty Chaka nerved 
himself and went out and spoke with the people, but it 
was no longer the Chaka that they knew who spoke. He 
stood up like the royal lion of the Mazulu, like a wild 
beast without fear, but like a lion with its strength gone, 
unable even to raise its mane. He stood up like a huge 
elephant, but like an elephant that is staggering, with its 
strength gone, that is like to a diseased ox and its ears are 
limp. His fine body, his broad shoulders, his mighty 
limbs swayed gently of their own weight. Weak and 
tottering his body could no longer fulfil his commands. 
He approached a man, swaying, and threatened him once 
only, and the mail's mouth opened like a bird's and he 
died. Death, the mighty bull, had seized Chaka, but he 
did not see it; it had come to him and he could not flee 
away or fight against it. Death came to him in the moment 
of his glory, in the hour of his boasting, when he said 
that the regiments of the Mazulu had fought against the 
storms and the winds and overcome them, had fought 
against death and overcome it and trampled it under foot. 
At such a time had death come to him and there was no 
deliverance. 

When the sun rose the regiment of the ' Dukuza ' was 
no longer there, but had gone with the night; a few only 
of 'Chaka's Own' remained. The 'Bees' alone were all in 
their place. Chaka said that those men who were with 
him should choose for themselves from his oxen fifty 
from each choice herd (the herds had been divided ac¬ 
cording to their colour). He said that this was their 
reward, for they had served him loyally. And while they 
were choosing he sent a company of his warriors to slay 
them, saying that it was they who had bewitched him, 
for when he was ill they had run eagerly after his cattle 
to take their reward before he was even dead. 


Chapter Twenty-six 

THE DEATH OF CHAKA 

D AWN came, and the sun rose, and at the time when 
the cattle are at ease in the pasture grounds Dingana 
and Mhlangana arrived, appearing from the regiments 
which they had left behind, for these had taken up their 
position not far from Chaka—at a distance which could 
be covered in about half an hour by a fast runner. 

When Chaka's brothers arrived he thrilled with joy, 
and leapt in the air and it was as if he was seeing them for 
the first time and as if they were bringing him cool water 
to soothe his pain. His aching pains grew less and gave 
him space to speak with his brothers. Chaka had now 
made himself verily ill with worry and anxiety and he 
could not rest, but although he was ill he had not become 
thin. He talked with them for most of the day and kept 
on asking them about the battle and they answered all his 
questions. Dingana soon noticed that there was no doubt 
that Chaka was very ill, and he prepared to carry out his 
evil design on the very day of their meeting. 

At midday Chaka's pains came upon him. When the 
shadows of the afternoon began to lengthen they 
increased to an alarming extent and deprived him of all 
chance to speak with his brothers. 

It was during this time that the messengers from 
Moshoeshoe came to him, and brought him cranes' 
feathers with which to adorn his warriors. He took and 
admired them, but the pain in his chest increased. All the 
acts of his fife passed again before his eyes and of all whom 
he had removed from the earth before their time it was 
Noliwe that he saw, just as she was in the outhouse and 
he heard again her last words: 'Chaka, my beloved, thou 
who art now my father, w r ho art Jobe, who art Dingi- 


THE DEATH OF CHAKA 197 

swayo, who art. . and when he heard those words and 
saw Noliwe again he felt faint and his whole body 
sweated. And he heard Isanusi say, more clearly than when 
the words were first spoken: 'To-day thou hast entered 
into the number of the chiefs of our land, the chiefs that 
are mighty.' 

Noliwe vanished and Nandi appeared and when Chaka 
first saw her he tried to cry out, but no sound came from 
his lips. He gazed upon the cranes' feathers, but yet 
although he gazed thus it did not seem that he really saw 
them. Nandi was in the same attitude and posture as when 
her son took away her life and all the time Noliwe's voice 
went on ringing in his ears. 

After this Chaka saw Udonga-luka-Tatiyana filled with 
the bodies of those whose lives he had taken and Nandi 
was at one corner of it and Noliwe at the other. And as 
he gazed upon them Isanusi appeared far away in the 
distance with his companions. And Chaka heard a sound 
from the midst of the multitude, dinning his ears: 'Chaka, 
murderer of thy brothers, the offspring of thine own 
father. Murderer of thy wife, the friend of thy heart. 
Murderer of thy children, thine own offspring. Murderer 
of thy mother who gave thee birth.' 

Dingana perceived that Chaka was still in a trance and 
then Mopo signed to him by winking with his eye to 
approach, for their hour had come. He looked round at 
Mhlangana and he also approached. Dingana ap¬ 
proached Chaka and made as though to admire the 
feathers. Then suddenly he struck him and the spear 
sank in and came out the other side. Mhlangana also 
struck him from behind and the spear came out in front: 
Mopo's spear entered his side. Their three spears met in 
his body and at that very moment Isanusi came to Chaka 
to demand his reward. 


198 THE DEATH OF CHAKA 

When Chaka felt the spears enter his body he did not 
defend himself manfully as of old, but turned slowly 
round and awoke from his trance and his mid-day visions. 
As soon as he turned, his pains subsided and his features 
regained their former state and Dingana and Mhlangana 
saw him as he had always been and fled in terror. And 
then Chaka said: 'It is your hope that by killing me ye 
will become chiefs when I am dead. But ye are deluded; 
it will not be so, for Umlungu will come and it is he who 
will rule, and ye will be his bondmen.' 

Chaka died covered with wounds far from his own 
home. The sun set and his body was dragged on to a high 
level space to be eaten by the wild beasts of the field. 
The next day the people rose up when it was yet very 
early, to see what had been left by the wild beasts. They 
found that Chaka's corpse was still as it had been, 
untouched, except that it was green like seaweed. They 
found the tracks of many hyenas on the ground all about 
the corpse and they were astounded that this animal which 
is more gluttonous even than the pig had not eaten it by 
night. They told Dingana and he went with them to the 
corpse. When they drew nigh the crows flew away from 
it and they thought they would find the eyes plucked 
out, but both were still there. They were all filled with 
terror and trembled, and then Dingana ordered that the 
corpse should be buried quickly lest perchance it might 
rise again. And this was the last of Chaka, the son of 
Senzangakona. 

Even to-day the Mazulu remember how that they were 
men once, in the time of Chaka, and how the tribes in 
fear and trembling came to them for protection. And 
when they think of their lost empire the tears pour down 
their cheeks and they say: 'Kingdoms wax and wane. 
Springs that once were mighty dry away.' 


PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, OXFORD 
BY JOHN JOHNSON, PRINTER TO THE UNIVERSITY 
