About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/ugandaskatikiroi00mukaiala

--------------------------------------

UGANDA'S KATIKIRO 
IN ENGLAND 
BEING THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNT OF HIS VISIT TO THE 
CORONATION OF HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII. 

BY HIS SECRETARY 
HAM MUKASA 
AUTHOR OF "A LUGANDA COMMENTARY ON THE GOSPEL OF ST. MATTHEW"

Translated and Edited by 
THE REV. ERNEST MILLAR, M.A., F.Z.S. 
OFFICIAL INTERPRETER TO THE KATIKIRO DURING HIS VISIT, 
AND MISSIONARY OF THE CHURCH MISSIONARY SOCIETY IN UGANDA 

With an Introduction by 
SIR H. H. JOHNSTON, K.C.B. 

WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS 

London: HUTCHINSON & CO. 
Paternoster Row	    1904



LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
SANTA BARBARA 



PREFACE 



THIS book has been translated into English at the request 
of some of those who, having met the Katikiro of Uganda 
during his visit to England in 1902, wished to know what 
impressions he had gained during that visit. 

It was written in Luganda by Ham Mukasa (the Kati- 
kiro's secretary during the visit) after his return to Africa, 
and was based on copious notes taken at the time, the 
whole book being written in collaboration with the Kati- 
kiro himself, so that it may be regarded as their joint 
production. It was written for the natives of Uganda, 
as a description of the journey and what was seen on it, 
and everything is described from an entirely native point 
of view, and not with the idea of any translation into 
English. 

The book simply shows what impressions the visitors 
gained during their visit ; some of the impressions are 
obviously false ones, and many of the numbers given are 



vi preface 

quite unreliable ; sometimes similar events occurring in 
different places have been confused but I have not 
attempted to rectify such things, as I think they add to 
the charm of the book. 

In translating it, I have tried to keep as closely as 
possible to the native idiom, and if at times I have adhered 
to it too closely, I must ask my reader's pardon. There 
is in the original a good deal of repetition, and of long 
explanations which would have been wearisome to an 
English reader, and these parts have therefore been 
omitted. I have also omitted a few remarks that might 
have caused pain to some, or that were of too personal 
a nature ; and have added where necessary a few explana- 
tory notes, which as a convenience to the reader have 
usually been put in brackets and inserted in the text, 
though where a longer note has been necessary it has 
been put at the foot of the page. 

I myself had never read the book through until, when 
once again in England, I began the work of translation, 
and I therefore wish to disclaim all responsibility for the 
various statements made in it, even though they have 
sometimes apparently been made on my authority. 

The author frequently states how impossible he finds 
it to explain in his own language many of the things 
which he saw in England, and I similarly sometimes 



preface vii 

found it quite impossible to make the Katikiro and the 
author fully understand many of our English customs 
and methods of government. 

As an explanatory note, I may add that from Uganda 
to England the party was in the official charge of Mr. H. 
Prendergast, an officer of the Uganda Administration, 
and during the stay in England was in the charge of 
Captain C. V. C. Hobart, of the Grenadier Guards, who 
obtained his D.S.O. for services in Uganda. 

In the text of the book I have used the generally 
accepted method of calling the country itself Uganda, 
a single native Muganda (plural, Baganda), and the lan- 
guage Luganda. 

In conclusion, I wish to express my thanks to all those 
who have kindly assisted me in the preparation of this 
book, to Sir H. H. Johnston for his Introduction, to 
Mr. Herbert Samuel, M.P., for his kind advice and sug- 
gestions, and to Mr. C. W. Hattersley for kindly allowing 
me to reproduce some of his photographs. 

ERNEST MILLAR. 

July 22</, 1904. 



INTRODUCTION 



To see ourselves as others see us is, or should be, an 
ever fresh source of interest to the British peoples of 
these two islands who have taken their turn in the 
cycle of the world's history as an Imperial race. 
Motives first of honest commerce, secondly of greed 
for gain, then of sheer philanthropy, and lastly a lust 
for power over the destinies of other peoples, have sent 
the adventurers of Great Britain and Ireland over 
America, Asia, and Africa during the last five centuries, 
seeking first to found colonies, then empires, and 
latterly to educate backward races, the commission 
or gain on the last-named enterprise being the securing 
of fair fields for our commerce and the satisfaction 
of implanting our religious beliefs, laws, language, 
and customs in many waste places of the earth, and 
among many people of widely differing racial origins. 
In order that our Empire may continue and flourish, 
and include within its limits not only those who are 
descended from Celts and Anglo-Saxons (and who 
have made new Englands, Scotlands, Waleses, and 



x 3ntr<rtwctton 

Irelands in the western or the southern hemispheres), 
but also Maltese, Greeks, Indians, Arabs, Persians, 
Chinese, Egyptians, Malays, American Indians, and 
Negroes of every shade, from olive-yellow to sooty 
black, it is becoming absolutely necessary that Force 
shall not be the only element by which our sway is 
maintained. We have had in the past to use the force 
uhuh is derived from individual courage, strongly 
marked individuality, knowledge applied to such 
practical purposes as the manufacture of superior arms 
or superior ship-building in the conquest of the many 
subject races which now own our sway. All things 
considered, our crimes and our mistakes have been 
few, and our honest dealing a thing to be proud of and 
thankful for. But the very thoroughness with which 
we have carried out our mission as empire-builders 
has weakened the force with which at present we 
impose our rule. We have striven to educate all 
our subject races to think and act for themselves. We 
have concealed from them none of the tricks of our 
trade. Negroes and natives of India have been taught 
to shoot as well as sometimes better than the 
soldiers of our own race. Kru-boys from the West 
African coast are nearly as smart naval seamen as 
the British bluejacket. We have raised up great 
lawyers in India, clever casuists in Malta, and Negro 
Attorneys-General in Sierra Leone who have been 
justly knighted for their attainments. It is time, there- 



3ntrotwction xi 

fore, that we sought to lay the foundation of our most 
diversified Empire on lines of affection and mutual 
trust, as well as on respect for that force emanating 
from the forty millions of these two little islands, who 
are enormously out-numbered by our alien fellow- 
subjects in mere masses, and who are within measur- 
able distance of being equalled in intelligence, aptitude, 
and bravery by the black, brown, yellow, and foreign - 
white associates of the Empire. In plain words, it 
is our business as an Imperial race to show all those 
people who are British subjects or British-protected 
persons, and who dwell outside the limits of the white 
man's lands, that it is to their interest and advantage 
to remain of their own free will a part of that British 
Empire which should develop as time goes on into a 
vast league of peace and good will, unhampered com- 
merce, tolerant beliefs, and unbounded knowledge. 
In dealing with the non-British elements in our Empire 
we have often to mend our manners, enlarge our sym- 
pathies, and rid ourselves as a nation of a tendency 
to believe a tendency still subsisting that the only 
perfect human being absolutely acceptable in God's 
sight is he or she of pink-and-white complexion, who 
plays all or a selection of the pastimes in vogue in 
the United Kingdom, and wears the exact costumes 
ordained by London or Cheltenham, and can quote 
faultlessly the Mayfair shibboleths of the moment. 
Nothing in my conception is so vulgar and saddening 



xii 3ntrotniotton 

as the typical up-to-date Indian rajah, who, in the 
belief that he is thereby getting into closest sympathy 
with his Anglo-Saxon over-lords, abandons his native 
costume for ours, and introduces to an Indian climate 
and tropical surroundings modes of killing time and 
wasting money which are only tolerable in association 
with English scenery, Scotch mists, or Irish meadows. 

We are constantly publishing the impressions made 
on our own pioneers, or on our people at home, by the 
exotic subjects of the Empire. Much less numerous 
are the recorded impressions which we make on the 
minds of those visitors to our shores. The book, there- 
fore, which follows these remarks should be of interest 
and advantage. I desire to state that I disclaim all 
responsibility for the opinions and impressions of the 
Katikiro Apolo and his interpreter and friend, Ham 
Mukasa. The same, I believe, might be said by the 
Rev. Ernest Millar, who has translated the work from 
Luganda into English. Very few excisions, I under- 
stand, have been made in this literal translation. Here 
and there a somewhat too personal remark has been 
omitted, lest it should give offence. Mr. Millar has 
added a few explanatory notes. 

The points on which I should like to set right the 
Negro author of this book are as follow. He has 
expressed a belief in one passage that, in reviewing 
the peoples of the Uganda Protectorate in my recent 
book, I described his own nation, the Baganda, as being 



3ntrotwction 

a short people. In this he is quite mistaken, as any 
one who is interested in this question of stature can 
ascertain for himself by consulting the pages of The 
Uganda Protectorate. He refers to much the same 
matter in retailing a conversation with Lord Rosebery. 
This mistake seems to have arisen from the fact that 
he was asked questions about the Pygmies, who either 
reach to the borders of Uganda on the west, or who 
crop up as exceptional human types in the Uganda 
county of Kiagwe. 

Ham Mukasa is very severe on the dancing of Euro- 
peans, speaking in terms of reprobation of the waltz, 
or of the custom of men and women dancing together. 
Curiously enough, this impression of indecency is often 
made on the minds of Arabs and Indians when they 
see the men and women of Europe swaying to the waltz ; 
yet we who know the inner side of things realise 
the falseness of this accusation. There may be much 
vulgar buffoonery in the Kitchen Lancers, while of 
course in many European lands deliberately indecent 
dances are of old date or recent invention ; but what 
might be styled the official dance of the Europeans 
is, as Mr. W. G. Gilbert would phrase it, " blameless." 
The same kindly adjective cannot certainly be applied to 
the majority of dances in Uganda itself at any rate, such 
as were still in vogue at the beginning of the twentieth 
century. Even though the indecent suggestions may 
be of old date and historic interest, they left no doubt 



xiv 3ntroNtetion 

as to their meaning ; and wisely tolerant as all the 
Christian missionaries in Uganda have shown themselves 
in reference to native customs which did not impinge 
on actual immorality, I think they will agree with me 
in deprecating any praise being given to either the 
elegance or propriety of the established native dances. 
So that, my friend Ham, we might both glance at the 
parable of the beam and the mote in this respect. 

In another direction I cannot associate myself with 
the author's opinions, at any rate in every particular ; 
and this is in regard to the Germans and their attitude 
towards the Negroes, either on board ship or on land. 
Some harshness, no doubt, has characterised the gradual 
extension of German power over East Africa, including 
the lands which border the southern half of the Victoria 
Nyanza. Having no direct personal knowledge of what 
has taken place in these lands, I shall here neither 
condemn nor approve ; but judging merely from what 
I have heard in epitomised native opinion, I do 
not think the German rule in the lands south of Uganda 
is so harsh as it has been depicted by the writer of this 
book. I much regret to note the way in which he and 
the Katikiro seem to have been treated on one parti- 
cular German steamer ; yet I remember, in reference 
to this very line of steamers, some years ago sending 
detachments of Indians and Negroes by these German 
vessels in preference to other lines plying on the East 
Coast, because of the kindly care given to their wants 



Jntrofcuction xv 

and prejudices on board ; and I have also been im- 
pressed myself with the courtesy which the German 
officials on those steamers showed to Portuguese coloured 
subjects from Goa or Mogambique whose means enabled 
them to travel first class, and whose manners were to 
the full as good as those of other passengers of lighter 
complexion. Is it not actually the case that in parts 
of East and West Africa the Germans have snapped 
up a good deal of passenger traffic from British and 
French lines, on account of their unusual consideration 
for the feelings of coloured passengers who conducted 
themselves in a proper manner, and who were sensitive 
to the aloofness with which on other steamships they 
were regarded by both ship's officers and fellow- 
passengers of British or French extraction ? 

These prefatory remarks might be concluded by a 
brief biography of the two principal Uganda personages 
mentioned in this book the actual author, Ham Mukasa, 
and the personage whom he accompanied as secretary, 
the Katikiro (Prime Minister) of Uganda, Apolo Kagwa. 

Ham Mukasa, like all natives of the kingdom of 
Uganda, belongs to a specific clan or totem. In his 
case it is the clan or tribe of the Mamba. Mamba is 
the name in Luganda for the Protopterus, or lung-fish, 
a description of which is given in my book on the Uganda 
Protectorate. Ham is about thirty-six years old. His 
father was a small chief of the name of Sensalire. This 



3ntrofcwcticn 

Sensalire is the man whom the Katikiro in his letters 
compares in stateliness of bearing to His Majesty King 
Edward VII. Ham Mukasa began his working life 
as a page to the King Mutesa. He became converted 
to Christianity about seventeen years ago. He was 
severely wounded in the knee during the first great 
war between the Christians and Muhammadans, and 
is still lame in consequence. After the war he was 
given the chieftainship of Kiyoza, which he has held 
ever since, at any rate in a titular way. He surrendered 
some of the functions of his chieftainship in 1893 to 
become a teacher and a licensed lay reader of the Uganda 
Anglican Church, into which offices he was inducted 
by Bishop Tucker. The estates which he administered 
had already become the property of the Church by gift 
from King Mwanga. 

Mukasa now helps the Uganda Admiral (Gabunga) 
in his special work dealing with natives, canoes, daus, 
etc. As his own personal property he possesses the 
island of Lujabwa, which was given to him by King 
Mwanga. He was one of the first amongst the Baganda 
to learn English, which language he writes and speaks 
fairly well. He has written in the Luganda language 
a commentary on the Gospel of St. Matthew which 
has had a good sale. He is much esteemed and liked 
by all Europeans in Uganda, and by his fellow-country- 
men. He is a man of extremely kind disposition, and 
has been appointed by the chiefs one of the guardians 



Jntrobuction 

of the little King Daudi Chwa. In spite of his lame 
leg he is an ardent bicyclist. 

Apolo Kagwa, the Katikiro or Prime Minister, who 
visited England on the occasion recorded in this book 
as the Uganda representative at His Majesty's coro- 
nation, is aged about forty. He is a very tall and 
muscular man, about 6 ft. 3 in. in height, and of 
absolutely unmixed Negro race ; whereas Ham Mukasa 
is somewhat lighter in colour, and has about him 
a slight element of the aristocratic caste in Uganda, 
known as the Bayima or Bahima. (The Bahima were 
originally of Gala origin, and in their purest types of 
the present day are a light reddish-yellow in complexion, 
with absolutely European features, though they have 
the curly hair of the Negro.) Apolo is the grandson 
of Bunya, the Kangawo or chief of the Uganda county 
of Bulemezi. Bunya ruled over this once semi-inde- 
pendent principality in the time of Semakokiro, a 
monarch of the Uganda Empire, who was the great- 
great-great-grandfather of the present boy-King. Apolo 
Kagwa belongs to the tribe or clan of the " Nsenene," or 
Grasshoppers. To this tribe belonged many great chiefs 
of the Baganda nation, and many kings' wives. It 
is a clan the history of which goes back very far in the 
legends of Uganda. 

Apola Kagwa was brought up at the king's court, 
and was one of the first pages who learnt to read. He 
was baptised nearly twenty years ago. He became 

b 



Sntrobttctton 

chief store-keeper to King Mwanga. He narrowly 
escaped death at the hands of that monarch on various 
occasions, partly because he refused to associate himself 
with the revolting orgies which disgraced Mwanga's 
court, and partly because he sent word to the Bi 
missionaries at Mwanga's court of the murder of Bishop 
Hannington. When Mwanga was expelled by Christians 
and Muhammadans united, in 1888, Apolo became 
Mukwenda, or chief of the county of Singo ; but when 
the Muhammadans turned on the Christians and ex- 
pelled them, Apolo became the General of the Christian 
forces, and played a great part in the eventual expulsion 
of the Muhammadans. When Mwanga became con- 
verted to Christianity and returned to Uganda, he 
singled out Apolo for his bravery and made him Prime 
Minister. It was Apolo who took the lead of the English 
or Anglican party among the Baganda Christians, and 
invited the representatives of the Imperial British East 
Africa Company to enter Uganda. His influence has 
always been exerted in favour of a British Protectorate, 
and he has taken the lead in most great reforms. He 
commanded Uganda armies in the long struggle against 
the recalcitrant King of Unyoro, Kabarega. I might 
add that he was of all others the man who did most 
to help me to the settlement of Uganda affairs during 
my special commission in 1899, 1900, and 1901. Apolo 
built the first two-storied house erected by any native 
in the country of Uganda, and also the first house made 



Sntrofcuctton 

of burnt bricks. In his newest residence he has intro- 
duced many European ideas, such as drain-pipes, bath- 
rooms, electric bells. He was perhaps the first native 
of his country to learn to ride a horse and to master a 
bicycle. He was likewise the first to construct a wheeled 
carriage or to use a typewriter, with which last instru- 
ment he has long been a proficient. He made up his 
mind as far back as 1899 to visit England. The visit 
was postponed on account of the arrival of the Special 
Commissioner to effect a settlement in the administration 
of the Uganda Protectorate. It was further post- 
poned in order that it might coincide with the corona- 
tion of King Edward. In the opinion of all who have 
conversed with him since he returned from England, 
his disposition has been wholly unspoilt by the attention 
he received during his stay in this country. He has 
come back with a great many practical and sensible 
notions as to the development of Uganda. 

The Katikiro has eight children four boys and four 
girls. His eldest son is now at a small preparatory 
school near Cambridge, getting an English education. 
Like all natives of Uganda, he is intensely patriotic, 
as proud of his country and its past history (which has 
been a wonderful one in Africa) as any Englishman 
could be. He is humble-minded in his desire to learn 
from our teaching the best elements of our civilisa- 
tion, but, if I may judge from the conversations I 
have held with him, his great ideal is to make his 



xx 3ntrctouctton 

fellow-countrymen the best of black men, and not 
servile imitations of Europeans. 

As to the names of these two men, Apolo is the 
Luganda rendering of Apollos, the first Gentile con- 
vert to Christianity. This name was given by the mis- 
sionary who baptised Kagwa, Kagwa being the Lugand.i 
name. Ham Mukasa derives his first name from the 
son of Noah, who has been associated in tradition with 
the dark-coloured races, and whose name curiously 
enough has been applied by derivation in the form 
" Hamitic " to a very important section of the Caucasian 
race in North-East Africa a section to which the 
ancient Egyptians, the modern Somalis and Galas, 
and, more than this, the Bahima aristocracy of Uganda, 
belong. Mukasa is, I believe, not only a well known 
name in Uganda, but was the title of one of the principal 
divinities of its old religion. 

H. H. JOHNSTON. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I 

PAGE 

The start Crossing the lake Kisumu First impressions 
of the train First experience of cold on Mau es- 
carpment Arrival at Mombasa ..... i 

CHAPTER II 

Mombasa What a ship is like Lamu The wonderful 

English Aden Truth stranger than fiction . . 1 6 

CHAPTER III 

S.S. Manora The Red Sea not red The Katikiro ill- 
Suez The Suez Canal Port Said Athletic sports 
Nearing Europe 34 

CHAPTER IV 

Naples Pompeii Marseilles European trains France 

Arrival in London The Westminster Palace Hotel . 45 

CHAPTER V 

Distinguished visitors The origin of this book The Army 
and Navy Stores First impressions of London Dinner 
with Sir H. M. Stanley The House of Commons The 
British Museum " The Tube " Service in St. Paul's 



Contcnte 

MM 

Cathedral Boys' Brigade Camp Lunch with Sir 

H. H. Johnston The Zoological Gardens . . 56 

CHAPTER VI 

Interview with the Church Missionary Society The Bible 
House The Bishop of London's garden-party Dinner 
with Mr. Herbert Samuel. M.P. A Board School 
" Ben Hur " The Hippodrome Lunch with Sir T. 
Powell Buxton, G.C.M.G. The London Hospital- 
Visit to Hampstead The Crystal Palace ... 79 

CHAPTER VII 

Sad news, the King's illness The Tower of London The 
Tower Bridge Colonel Wallis and the Colonial troops 
Fire brigade display Indian and African soldiers at the 
Alexandra Palace Visit to Captain Hobart at South- 
ampton The British Fleet The Katikiro has fever 
Review of the Indian troops by H.M. the Queen 
and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales ... -97 

CHAPTER VIII 

Birmingham Steel pen making Making rifles Liverpool 
S.S. Oceanic Liverpool Town Hall The Cotton Ex- 
change The landing-stage Cambridge "- The tutor 
of the world " The University Press The University 
Library " One cannot have everything " St. Joseph's 
College, Mill Hill Hampstead An English wedding 
Carlisle Canon Rawnsley's sonnet The Agricultural 
Show Cows like hippopotami Sheep-shearing . .112 

CHAPTER IX 

Glasgow Visit to the Lord Provost The municipal 
buildings A prison The University The Cathedral 
A coal mine Steel works Greenock Sugar re- 



Contents 

PAGE 

fining The city councillors Dumbarton Ship- 
building Edinburgh The Forth Bridge Luncheon 
with Sir William Muir Paper-making Holyrood 
Palace Reception by the town council . . .128 



CHAPTER X 

Newcastle Sir William Armstrong's works Pottery 
making London The Natural History Museum 
Lord Salisbury's garden party A rest at Hampstead 
Reading Sutton's seed works Huntley & Palmer's 
biscuit factory " The stomach of England " . . 145 



CHAPTER XI 

Sheffield Armour-plate works Electro-plating Brick- 
making by machinery Cutlery works Exhibition of 
ladies' work Reception by the Lord Mayor of Sheffield 
Manchester Cotton spinning and weaving Rubber 
works A house on fire Plate-glass making Railway 
carriage works Crewe locomotive works . . , 157 



CHAPTER XII 

The Natural History Museum Shopping Lunch with 
Sir Benjamin Stone The House of Lords The Guild- 
hallVisit to Mr. Burdett-Coutts' stud farm Visit to 
Warlies Interview with Lord Rosebery Dinner with 
the King's guard Changing guard at St. James's Palace 
Interview with Sir Clement Hill . . . .172 



CHAPTER XIII 

Windsor Castle Garden-party at Mrs. Murdoch's (nee 
Speke) How we saw the " Father of the Nation," 
King Edward VII. Tea with the Archbishop of Canter- 
bury at Lambeth Palace The coronation . . .188 



Contents 

CHAPTER XIV 

MM 

minster Abbey St. Paul's Farewell to England- 
Lord Salisbury Across France vid the Mount Ccnis 
Rome Naples S.S. Kftrig" German kindness " 
Mediterranean Sea Portuguese rule and English 
impartiality 204 

CHAPTER XV 

Port Said The Red Sea German drinking customs Hot 
weather Perira Island Aden The Somalis Rough 
weather German cookery Tanga . . . .220 

CHAPTER XVI 

Zanzibar The Consul Swahili huts " Mnazi moja " 
Mbweni Kiungani school Lunch with General 
Rogers Characteristics of the English Dinner with 
Captain Agnew Visit to the Sultan The Cathedral . 236 

CHAPTER XVII 

Mombasa Mr. F. J. Jackson, C.B. English straight- 
forwardness Turtle soup Kilindini Mombasa Fort 
Lunch with Mr. Marsden Departure from Mombasa 
Derailments on the Uganda Railway Port Florence 
Reflections on the government of the English 
German " ruffians " Fable of the two fowls . .250 

CHAPTER XVIII 

On the lake Arrival at Munyonyo A great reception 
A triumphal progress Thanksgiving service in the 
Cathedral Reception at Kampala by the Deputy Com- 
missioner Telling the story of our travels . . 269 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

THE KATIKIRO AND HAM MUKASA Frontispiece 

Facing page 
CHURCH DRUM IN NAMIREMBE CATHEDRAL l8 

THE KING OF UGANDA 72 

THE ROAD TO MENGO . IOO 

MENGO, THE CAPITAL OF UGANDA 144 

INTERIOR OF THE CHURCH AT MITYANA l8d 

HAM MUKASA, HIS FATHER, WIFE, AND FAMILY .... 196 

A CANOE, SESE ISLANDS ..,,,,,,. 238 



UGANDA'S 
KATIKIRO IN ENGLAND 



CHAPTER I 

The start Crossing the lake Kisumu First impressions of the train 
First experience of cold on Mau escarpment Arrival at Mombasa 

ON May 6th, 1902, at 10 a.m., we started from Mengo. 
A great many people came to see us off ; chiefs of counties 
and other chiefs, both great and small, boys and peasants, 
all came and escorted us as far as the River Nalokolongo, 
and there turned back, and there remained only those 
who were going namely, Apolo Kagwa Katikiro, Yakobo 
Kago, Andereya Kimbugwe, Batolomayo Musoke, and 
those of our people who were going with us. We reached 
Kitala, the Mugema's country seat, and found Yosuwa, 
the Mugema, waiting for us ; he had pitched tents for 
us to sleep in, and had got soda-water and a large quantity 
of biscuits ready for us. 

The next morning we reached Entebbe at 8 a.m., and 
found Mr. J. Martin and Saulo Sebugwawo awaiting 

I 



's "kattfciro in 

our arrival at the house that had been prepared for 
our reception. They made us very welcome, and brought 
us twenty water-pots full of water to wash our feet, 
and also plenty of biscuits and sweet fruits, and we 
had a nice meul. 

At one o'clock we went to the Commissioner's house, 
and found there the Rev. E. Millar and Mr. J. Martin, 
and after stopping for about twenty minutes went to 
see what the steamer was like. The Katikiro showed 
us all over it, as on another occasion he had had it all 
explained to him ; and after seeing it we went to see 
Mr. de Boltz, the Government printer, who showed us 
the wonderful new printing-press, a very ingenious one. 

At night we received a hundred and fourteen baskets 
of food from various friends, and at half-past eight went 
to the Commissioner's house. He met us at the door, and 
welcomed us and made us sit down, while they got 
ready for us a very clever table, which they made larger 
by putting other boards into it ; on the top they put 
a net, and fastened it with irons at each side, and brought 
a round ball about the size of a quail's egg ; and the 
Commissioner and Mr. Prendergast, our escort, first 
began striking it to show how it was done, and then 
they let the Katikiro and me (Ham Mukasa) play, and 
then the others. The Commissioner told us that this 
game was very hard to learn, and was called " Pong- 
pon." After we had had some soda-water we went 
home at 9.30 p.m. 



tbe Xafce 3 

The next morning at nine o'clock we went to embark 
on the steamer, but before we had reached the lake- 
shore Mr. Cunningham kept us in order to photograph 
us with our people, and we then went on to the pier, 
and found there a very large number of Europeans, 
including the Commissioner, who had come to bid us 
farewell. After we had said good-bye they released 
the cables that fastened the steamer, and we started 
off at 9.30 a.m. 

When we started there were two canoes about half 
a mile ahead of us, but we passed them at once. We 
then went to the front of the steamer to see where our 
servants were travelling, and then came back to the 
stern, where they had put our chairs, and there sat, each 
one reading his book. The sea was quite calm and we 
had no trouble at first. From Entebbe to Mbiru we 
took fifty-seven minutes our canoes would have taken 
about two hours and twenty minutes and there we 
began to feel the vibration of the steamer, which re- 
sembled the vibration of an earthquake, owing to the 
screw which drove it, and the strength of the engines 
and the water which it churned up ; this caused the 
great vibration, which stopped when the steamer left 
off going and the engines were quiet, and there only 
remained the rolling motion. After we had passed 
Mbiru a slight breeze got up, and they put up the sail 
to make the steamer travel faster, being driven both 
by the wind and by the screw. 



4 Tfloattfa'0 Itatihiro in 

We reached Bugaya at one o'clock a journey of two 
and a half or three days by canoe and there waited 
half an hour to take on firewood. Muzito and Bisogolo, 
the chiefs of the island, came off to see the Katikiro ; 
the former brought us an ox as a present, but we refused 
it as we had nowhere to put it on the steamer. Aft. i 
they had finished taking in wood, we left Bugaya at 
half-past four to go to Dolwe Island, which we reached at 
9 p.m. After we had had some meat and biscuits we 
went to bed, and were given the cabin of the steamer 
to sleep in ; all the Europeans slept on deck, where we 
had sat during the day. 

We left at half-past five the next morning, at the 
time Captain Fowler had arranged. When the Katikiro 
heard them getting ready to start, he asked how he 
was going to be ill, if he had nothing in his inside ; and 
Mr. Millar said to him, " When you think you are going 
to be sea-sick, you had better eat a piece of dry biscuit," 
and I called our boys and they brought us some biscuits, 
and we all ate a few. 

Batolomayo Musoke and Yakobo Kago were the first 
to be unhappy over the motion of the screw, and at 
first we thought we would do better in the cabin 
than sitting on deck, but afterwards Andereya and 
I went on deck ; he sat on the afterpart of the deck, 
and I went to watch the engines working with the 
power of the fires, and then Mr. Millar fetched up the 
Katikiro and the others, because it is not customary on 



Xuncbeon on Boarfc 5 

a steamer to sit in the cabin, but to go on deck, where 
every one sits. 

At eleven o'clock Mr. Millar called us to have lunch, and 
I was amazed at his kindness, as he waited on us like a 
servant, and gave us too much honour, as all our servants 
could not wait on us they were constantly sea-sick, 
and others of them did not know how to wait at table ; 
and therefore he took pity on us because he knew how 
to walk about on a steamer. We and all our servants 
were like invalids on the steamer, and he asked each of us, 
" What would you like to eat or drink ? and I will tell 
some one to bring it." And he kept asking us how we 
were getting on ; just as a father and mother look after 
their children under all circumstances, thus did Mr. Millar 
to us. We have a proverb, " He who travels with his 
father has no sorrow," because he helps him in every 
thing, and Mr. Millar looked after us like this. 

Three of us, Andereya Kimbugwe, Yakobo Kago, and 
I, Ham Mukasa, had lunch first, and then the Katikiro 
and Batolomayo Musoke. The Katikiro at first would 
not eat, as he felt ill. Batolomayo had lunch with him 
in order that he might eat more cheerfully, not being 
alone at tjie table. 

After lunch I showed them the hills of Kisumu, and 
the Katikiro and I went forward to look at the place 
through our glasses, and we saw the corrugated iron 
houses by the railway line. At four o'clock they blew 
the whistle of the steamer to tell the people on shore 



6 IHganba'0 Itattbiro in 

that we had arrived, and at a quarter past four we reached 
our stopping-place, and were very much amazed at the 
cleverness of the Europeans making such a short journey 
of what used to be such a long one. From Dolwe the 
canoes take four days, and we took eleven hours and 
seventeen minutes. 

The Europeans went ashore in the small boat which 
they carry hung up on the steamer. They then took 
off all our goods, and we went ashore ourselves ; and 
when we had landed, we all congratulated one another 
on our safe arrival. 

We met there a Swahili named Makangala, whom we 
knew, as he had been in Uganda in the time of Mutesa ; 
and he asked us, " Where is the Katikiro going, and why 
has he left Uganda ? " I told him, " He is going to see 
what other countries are like " ; and he said, " It is very 
wrong of the Katikiro to leave Uganda and go to visit 
other countries ; it is not right he will find the country 
upset when he returns ; if I had known he was going 
to leave Uganda, I would not have brought my goods 
up to sell " ; and I asked him " Why ? " and he said, 
" The Katikiro and you people are my friends, and if 
you are not in Uganda, I do not care for the place ; when 
the Katikiro is away the country is no longer nice, and 
we traders are now afraid of it " ; and I said, " Don't be 
afraid, all the chiefs have not left the country only a 
very few have come " ; but he refused to listen to me, 
though I told him this. 



Ikisumu 7 

We then went up to the fort, though really there was 
not any fort, but only some houses ; but it is called the 
fort because the Europeans and the soldiers live there, 
but there is no fort as in other places. 

When we arrived there Mr. Millar went into the house, 
and presently they called the Katikiro and gave him a 
seat on the verandah, and some " soda-water," which is 
water with gas in it. 

Paulo Kawawulo (the chief of the Baganda at Kisumu) 
then came to see us, and we asked him what had prevented 
him from coming before ; he told us that he had only 
just heard of our arrival. 

We then heard that Mr. Hobley (Sub-Commissioner) 
had returned, and we told Kawawulo to go and give him 
our compliments. Soon after this he himself arrived, 
and asked who was taking us to England, and we told 
him Mr. Prendergast, who used to be in charge of the 
station in Budu. He said to us, " There is no house 
you can use, so you must sleep in a tent outside " ; and 
then we were very unhappy indeed and very much 
annoyed, as Kisumu is a very unhealthy place, and the 
cold at night is bad and makes many people ill. We 
waited a long time, as the Soudanese and Swahilis could 
not get the tent pitched ; we were there Andereya, 
Batolomayo, and I, Ham Mukasa, our friends the 
Katikiro and Kago having gone with Mr. Millar. 

After a short time they came back, Mr. Millar himself 
saying, " Come along, we have found a nice house to 



8 THaitfa'0 1<atifotro in 



sleep in ; pick up your things " ; and we all picked up 
our things and went along, and reached the house they 
had given us to sleep in ; it was one of the rooms of the 
hospital, and there were in it four beds belonging to tin- 
hospital, and we had a fifth of our own, and so we fm- 
slept there. The Katikiro had a very bad cold that day, 
and they got some medicine from the doctor for him. 
I myself got a bad attack of fever there because I stayed 
up late writing, and when I went to sleep about 2 a.m. 
I was very cold indeed, as I had been sitting outside. 

Paulo Kawawulo gave us fifty rupees as a parting 
gift, to be divided thus : Katikiro, 20 ; Yakobo Kago, 8 ; 
Andereya Kimbugwe, 8 ; Batolomayo Musoke, 7 ; 
Ham Mukasa, 7 ; and we thanked him very much for such 
a large present. Nkolo, one of the Katikiro's men, 
brought us a bundle of flour and one rupee, and the 
Katikiro refused the flour, saying, " It is hard to get 
food in this country ; keep it for yourself and give me 
the rupee only " ; and this he did, and we thanked him 
for it, and he thanked us for taking pity on him in the 
scarcity of food. Our boys killed one of the goats 
we had brought with us, and sat up till about i a.m. 
eating it. 

The next morning, May loth, the Katikiro woke us 
up, and after we had had prayers together, he went off 
with the chief of the servants of the Queen-mother, 
a boy named Enoka, who took him round the place to 
show him what it was like, and to see the market, etc. 



for tbe Grain 9 

He was away a long time, looking at the Bakavirondo 
and observing their habits, neither the men nor the 
women wear any clothes ; they walk about naked, and 
do not wash themselves at all, and the Katikiro was 
looking at them until the time came for us to leave. 
On this day also we cleaned out the cages of the animals 
we were taking to England ; I had an ape, and Mr. Millar 
had two servaline cats, which were a great trouble 
to him, as he kept having to feed them and clean out 
their cages. 

A great many Baganda women also came to see the 
Katikiro, who had left Uganda with Swahilis, and he 
asked them, " Why have you left the country of your 
birth and come into this country which is not yours, 
and which is so very unpleasant ? " and they said, 
" We came with our husbands who brought us." He 
asked them if they still had any religion, and some 
said they had, and others said, " We are Muhammadans." 

At half-past four we went to the place from which the 
train started off. They put me on to an ox-waggon, as 
all my joints were paining me, and so they had pity 
on me because I could not walk. I was afraid that I was 
going to have small-pox, but it was only bad fever. 
A very large number of Baganda women went with 
us and said, " They are going to have the case between 
themselves and Mwanga tried ; if they are in the wrong, 
they will be put in prison," although this was not a 
fact. 



io 1flant>a'0 1<atthiro in 



When we got to the train they gave us our places, 
each one his proper place, and those things which we 
did not wish to take with us we left in the charge of 
Paulo Kawawulo. We slept in the train that night, 
and they told us it was to start at five o'clock in the 
morning. I could not sleep at first, as there were some 
Swahilis in the " room," and they were drunk, but I got 
changed to another " room." 

Mr. Millar asked, " If I put you in a room by yourself, 
will you mind it ? " and I told him I should like it very 
much, and he took me by the hand and helped me along 
to another " room" that had no one in it, and I slept well, 
having escaped the noise of the drunkards, and I was 
very pleased with his kindness ; all the way he looked 
after me, coming in and asking how I was, and giving 
me such food as suited an invalid, until I got well. I 
was ill three days, and got better on the fourth. 

Well, at 5.30 a.m. on May nth the train blew its 
whistle to tell people we were going to start, and those 
who were standing about got into their places : for if 
you are not quick in getting back to your place after 
the whistle sounds, you find the train has gone, and has 
left you behind ; a great many people are constantly 
being left behind like this. The train started off quickly, 
and we were amazed at the way they had made the line, 
and how they had filled up the hollows, and bridged 
the rivers with bridges that made one giddy to look 
down from. 



Members of tbe IRailwa^ n 

The first thing to astonish us was seeing what the 
train was like, and how it went, and I remembered the 
proverb of our forefathers, which they used to sing, 
" You who stagger about under your burdens, those 
who come after you will be filled with amazement." 
The meaning is, " You are still bothered with your 
burdens and wonder at what you see, but we men have 
seen very little ; our grandchildren will see more than 
the things we wonder at now." Well, see how we who 
have come after them have seen wonders ; as our grand- 
fathers used to sing this proverb, now it is fulfilled in 
all the things we see made by the cleverness of the Euro- 
peans, and what our ancestors did not see, we, their 
children, see things that one would not think were 
made by mere men, such wonders ! 

When we reached the hill of Mnara, which is in the 
Nandi country, we first saw the Nandi ; in appear- 
ance they are like the Lendu. Here they took off 
the " head " of our train, which had brought us from 
Kisumu, and gave us a new one to take us on to 
Lumbwa, where we met Mr. F. J. Jackson, who had 
come from Nairobi, the largest inland town, to look 
round the territory he rules over. 

At Lumbwa or Fort Ternan they make the railway 
climb up in a very clever manner ; they go round the 
hills, and the road goes backwards and forwards, and 
the train goes up thus until it gets to the top of the 
hill, and if you are not looking out, you do not know 



12 1H0ant>a'0 Ikanlnro in 

what it is doing ; it goes backwards and forwards as if 
it were going back to the place it came from, and 
wlu-n it has gone backwards and forwards three or 
four times it reaches the top of the hill ; or if the hill 
be very large, it may go five, six, or seven times, or 
even more. 

We went on through passages they had cut through 
the rocks, and over rivers and huge valleys which they 
had bridged. When you see a new piece of work done 
by the Europeans, you become like a little child in 
thinking about their work, it is so wonderful. 

After leaving Lumbwa, where we waited some time 
and saw Mr. Jackson, we reached Molo and stopped 
there the night, as we arrived at 8 p.m., and it was raining 
very heavily. 

It is terribly cold on Mau escarpment ; the cold is 
like that of Europe, because it stiffens all the hands 
and body, and makes the nose run. 

We left Molo at 6.30 a.m., having got a new head 
to the train, and went across a huge plain at the bottom 
of the Mau escarpment. In the plain there is a long 
tube that sucks the water up and carries it a distance 
of sixteen miles or more to the town of Nakuru ; there is 
a fairly large lake about the size of the lake at Mityana, 
but the water of it is undrinkable, being salt, and there- 
fore they make the pipe run to a river a long way off 
to where there is good water. 

When we reached Nakuru, all the passengers showed 



a fast Spin 13 

their tickets, which allowed them to travel from place 
to place, and after they had all done this, the overseer 
who orders the train to go on blew his whistle to tell 
us to go on, and all those passengers who were scattered 
about came back to get into the train, and the engine- 
driver blew the whistle of the engine itself, and we 
went off very fast, because the road from Nakuru on- 
wards is very good, and so the train goes quickly, and 
the embankments do not give way as they do in other 
places. 

This is the place where we saw how fast a train goes ; 
every minute it went a whole mile that is to say, from 
Mengo to Entebbe it would only take twenty minutes, 
but in other places the train goes slowly, and takes a 
minute and a half or two minutes to go each mile. 

We reached Nairobi at 6.30 p.m. on May I3th, and 
saw how it was built ; the houses are all of corrugated 
iron, and there are a hundred, or a hundred and twenty 
of them, on a fine wide plain. We left there at 7.30 p.m., 
and the train went very fast ; I can compare it to nothing 
but to a swallow, because it went so very fast. When 
anything travels very fast, we Baganda say it goes like 
a swallow, because a swallow flies so rapidly, and there is 
nothing else on earth to which I can compare the rate 
at which a train travels. 

Daybreak found us at Mtoto Andei, and we then saw 
Mount Kilimanjaro, which is on the Anglo-German 
boundary, a very large mountain indeed, which has 



14 THflanfra'0 Ikatlluro in 

nun h '-now on the top, and is very hi^'h ; we also saw 
giraffe and many kinds of animals, /< bra and antelope, 
ostriches, jackals, etc., like herds of goats in numbers. 

On that day May I4th we also went round the hill 
called Ras Kedong, where there are very high bridges, 
as high as the Namirembe Cathedral ; the bridges are 
made of iron, the supports are iron, and the parapets 
of iron and of very strong timber. We afterwards 
entered the desert of Maungu, and after that reached a 
place called Mazeras, from which we first saw the sea 
at Mombasa, and went on and saw for the first time 
cocoa-nuts which the Swahilis had planted, and of which 
their gardens consist, as ours do of plantains in Uganda. 
When you look at their gardens from a distance they 
look like a forest of palm-trees. 

We then arrived at the sea and crossed the bridge 
from Changamwe to Kilindini the height of it is about 
the height of Silasi Mugwanya's house (the second regent) 
from the ridge-pole to the ground and reached Mombasa 
station at 5.26 p.m. We waited some time in the train, 
while they were arranging about where we should stay, 
and were getting out our luggage. We met there some 
people we had seen before in Uganda, as well as the official 
who had come to meet us. 

He was a very kind man indeed it was of course 
right for him to welcome us, but he was far kinder in 
h : s welcome than many others had been ; he made 
the Katikiro and myself travel up to our house on his 



Hrrival at tbe Coaat 15 

trolley, the others walking beside us. They had set 
apart two houses for us in case we were too many for 
one ; however, we found one house large enough for 
our needs. The house we slept in was that in which 
Kings Mwanga and Kabarega had slept, when they 
were deported from Uganda. 



CHAPTER II 

Mombasa What a ship is like Lamu The wonderful English Aden 
Truth stranger than fiction 

THE next morning we went at q a.m. to see the chief 
man of the town, and with him we found the Liwali or 
chief of the Arabs of Mombasa, a very old man, perhaps 
seventy or eighty years old, and they both welcomed 
us to Mombasa. The Liwali said he would call for us 
at 4 p.m. to show us the chief sights of the town. The 
others then went home as it was raining heavily, but 
the Katikiro, Mr. Millar, and I went to the house where 
they store rupees, which is called the " Bank," to arrange 
about our journey. 

At four o'clock the Liwali came, and we received him 
with great honour, on account of his age and position, 
and he put the Katikiro and Yakobo Kago and Andereya 
on his trolley and gave them a guide to show them round, 
while he himself went home. The guide showed them 
where the kerosine oil is stored, in a thing as big as the 
Katikiro's dining-room ; from this tank they draw oil 
for lighting purposes and for selling. 

While the Katikiro was seeing this the rest of us went 

16 



3mpre06ions of flfeombasa 17 

round the town with Mr. Millar, and saw the fine houses, 
some of them very old, the English and Indian shops, 
the mosques of the Arabs, and the wells from which they 
draw their water. They dig them very deep indeed, 
and draw water from them with a rope, as in the well 
you read about in St. John's Gospel, about which the 
Samaritan woman spoke to our Lord, " The well is deep 
and I have nothing with which to draw water " ; perhaps 
if we too had asked the people near the well the same 
question, they would have given the same answer. 

The next day we went to visit the mission station of 
Kisauni (Frere Town) ; we went in small boats rowed 
by Swahilis ; they row in the same way in which large 
boats are rowed, turning their backs in the direction 
in which they are going, and do not paddle like we 
do with our faces in the direction in which we are 
going. 

We saw the chief man of the place, Mr. Binns, who 
came there twenty-seven years ago, and the lady mis- 
sionaries, and also went over the beautiful church which 
they have, and the schools where the elder children were 
learning English and the younger ones were learning to 
read books. The seats in the church are like the desks 
Mr. Hattersley has made at Mengo, and in the schools 
they have a custom when any honoured visitor comes 
in all the children stand up straight and say together 
Ja-a-a-ambo Bwa-a-a-na (Good mor-r-r-ning, Si-r-r-r), 
just like people say Amen in church, and when one goes 

2 



1 8 Tflattfa's itatlhtro in 



out they say Kw.iluri Hw.i-a-a-na (Good-bye, Si-r-r-r). 
We thought this a very good custom. 

After we had been round tlu place we went to 
ladies' house, and they received us very nicely and 
made tea for us, which we enjoyed very much ; tlu \ 
also offered us ripe bananas, thinking that we would like 
them as they knew the Baganda were accustomed to eat 
mashed plantains you all know how kind ladies are, 
and how they welcome every one as if he were their own 
countryman. After this we saw the Rev. Ishmael 
Semler, the father-in-law of Mika Sematimba, and then 
came home in the rain. 

After a short rest we went to see the wife of the Bishop 
of Mombasa, and a great many ladies came there to 
welcome us for her sake ; there were about eleven of 
them and six men ; I should like to have known all their 
names, but I did not like to ask them. After tea we went 
all over the house, which was a very fine one, quite like 
an English house, and saw also the English church, which 
had one hundred and twenty-nine seats in it, sixty-five 
on one side and sixty-four on the other. The bishop 
himself was away visiting some of the distant mission 
stations, and so we did not see him. 

The next day, May I7th, we heard that our steamer 
had arrived, and so fastened up our belongings and 
separated those which we were going to take from those 
which were to be left behind, and those which were to 
go were put into a trolley and taken down to the pier. 




Photo by C. U'. Hail 



CHURCH DRUM NOW IN NAMIREMBE CATHEDRAL, USED INSTEAD OF BELL. 

" The great tube out of which the smoke (of the steamer) comes is as large 

or larger than the largest drum in Namirembe Cathedral. 1 ' 

[To face p. 18. 



Steamer 19 

The rest of the things we left with Mr. Bailey, the store- 
keeper of the mission at Mombasa, and at 2 p.m. we 
started off. 

We first arranged with Mr. Bailey about the Kago and 
those of our friends who were going to Zanzibar, and 
about our attendants who were going back to Uganda, 
and he said he would look after them, and help them as 
Mr. Millar had been doing. He agreed to all this because 
he is a very kind man, and talks nicely to every one and 
jokes with them ; you never see him angry ; there are 
few like him. 

After saying good-bye to him, we went down to the 
sea, all our friends and attendants coming with us, and 
there we saw our ship, and how wonderfully large it was ; 
but the Europeans did not call it large, but small. 

Let me tell you about it. Its height is twice as great 
as that of Silasi Mugwanya's house that is, from the 
sea-level to the deck ; the whole height is about two 
and a half times the height of Mugwanya's house, because 
the ship has seven stories. Well, what can I compare 
it to ? what do you think of it ? with what can you 
compare a seven-storied ship ? It is as wide as Ham 
Mukasa's brick house, including the verandahs ; the 
masts are as big round as the Katikiro's drum " Basen- 
geja " ; the length is one and a half times as great as that 
of Namirembe Cathedral ; the great tube out of which 
the smoke comes is as large or larger than the largest 
drum in Namirembe Cathedral. In the ship there are 



20 Iftgantm's ftatihiro in 

pens for all kinds of animals cows, goats, fowls, every 
kind of animal you find on land is there on the ship ; 
I did not actually see cows myself, but I saw goats and 
fowls, and these we ate every day on the journey. There 
is also a place where they stow things, very large and 
very deep ; when you stand above and look down, 
you are afraid to go too near to the edge. This ship will 
take twenty thousand loads, is not that a wonder ? 
but there are others larger. The chains that draw 
goods out of the ship are as large as a man's arm, or 
in some cases as large as the calf of a big man's leg. 
The poles to which these are fastened are as large as the 
head of a small drum. This is what our ship was like, 
and there are others larger in every respect than it 
was. 

Half an hour after we got on board, they told those 
who had come with us to go back to the shore after 
they had seen over the ship ; and we said good-bye 
to our friends, both European and Baganda. Yakobo 
Kago and Andereya Kimbugwe were so sorry at Apolo 
Katikiro going away that they refused to come on board, 
and remained on the pier near the machines that unload 
the goods from vessels. 

The anchor was then pulled up, and we started off ; 
the darkness came on, and the vibration caused by 
the screw was like the vibration of an earthquake, and 
we went on our way wondering at the cleverness of 
the Europeans. When you are on a ship you would 



1bow a Ship is Olifce a flDan 21 

not think that the waves could break it, because you 
are like people on dry land, and can visit one another 
like those in a town ; there are roads in a ship like the 
roads in a town, and there are bath-rooms. There are 
lights all over it, and rooms for the rich and for the poor ; 
those of the rich are very fine. Each room has two or 
three bedsteads in it, and arrangements for washing the 
face, and drinking-water in bottles. A ship is exactly like 
a man ; it has a life like the life of a man ; its life is the 
machinery that drives it ; its food is fire and oil and water 
if they do not feed it with these things it dies from 
want of food. It has arteries like a man ; these are the 
pipes that carry water all over it for drinking purposes 
and for doing all the work that has to be done, just like 
a man's blood goes through all the arteries of his body. 
Just as a man would die if he had no blood, so would 
a ship without water. I therefore compare it to the 
life of a man ; although it is a lifeless thing, yet it is 
like a man in these ways. 

The next morning we found ourselves at daybreak 
near a place called Lamu, a three days' journey for our 
Uganda canoes, but it only took our boat sixteen 
hours. We saw Lamu at 9 a.m., and at first thought 
it was an island, though it was really the mainland to 
which we were going. We arrived at about n a.m., 
and found thirty-five native boats waiting for us in 
order to take off the cargo which we had brought, 



22 TH0airt>a'6 Itatthiro in 

and which consisted of three thousand sacks of rice 
for the troops. After the anchor had been thrown into 
the sea the ship came to rest, and I saw how clever 
the natives were in managing their boats and in trying 
to get the best place for themselves, each man wanting 
to get some of the cargo to take ashore in order that he 
might get payment for so doing, and so they all tied 
their boats to the ship. 

The ship had ropes on it, and an iron fence all round 
to prevent people falling overboard ; there were also 
large iron standards to which the boats were fastened 
which were carried along by the ship, in order to take 
people ashore or to save the passengers in case the ship 
itself came to grief. Some of the boatmen fastened 
their boats on to these things which I have mentioned, 
so that they should not be carried away by the waves, 
and others were looking after the boats themselves, 
so that their places should not be taken by later comers. 
They ran up the ship's side and up the ropes like monkeys, 
in order to make their boats fast, and we were very 
surprised to see how little afraid of the sea these men 
were. They themselves were like Arabs, not black 
men, but red, and spoke a language which differed a 
good deal from Swahili ; they also rowed very well. 

The sea there has a sandy beach and all the shore was 
merely sand hills, and there was no grass at the landing- 
place ; it cannot grow because the sea is salt, and you 
know how grass will not grow well on sandy soil ; well. 



<S>ut into tbe cean 23 

when to the sand is added the saltness of the sea, the 
grass cannot grow at all. 

After we had landed all our cargo, we stayed the night 
and paid visits to one another on the boat, and Kabo 1 
(Mr. Prendergast), with whom we were travelling, when 
we were talking together, and I said, " This is a large 
boat," replied, " No, it is very small ; you will see others 
two or three times as large and much longer." I fully 
understood this, because I had already seen the William 
Mackinnon, which I had thought very large indeed, 
though others despise it for its small size ; and when I 
saw the steamer that took us from Mombasa, I myself 
no longer thought anything of the size of the Mackinnon, 
and so I believed Mr. Prendergast when he said, " In 
our country you will see much larger boats than this." 
We stayed for a long time talking about the wonders 
we had seen, and which we hoped to see we did this 
a great deal while we were on the sea, because we had 
plenty of time to spare, whereas on land we had little 
spare time. 

After leaving Lamu we went right out into the deep sea, 
which reaches as far as Aden, and is called the " Ocean." 
The meaning of the word " ocean " is a large sea with 
no islands at which to stop. On this day I first noticed 



1 English == little basket. Baganda peasantry and others, not being 
able to remember English names, usually call the Government official 
by some nick-name. Mr. Prendergast got this name because he usually 
wears a straw hat. 



24 Tflflanfca'0 itntilwo in 

the officers of the ship ; they do not r. main in one place, 
but go from side to side, keeping a look out, and looking 
also ahead. They observe the stars at night, and the 
sun and moon ; all these they look at that they may see 
the course on which the ship is travelling. They look 
at these through a telescope of a different kind from the 
ordinary ones, and which has many glasses on it ; I 
myself looked through it at the sun, which looked round 
like an orange, and very red. We noticed that the 
colour of the sea was like blue (washing blue), and the 
foam was very white, just like the foam of the soap used 
in the final washing of clothes. 

My friends, I cannot tell you about all the beautiful 
and wonderful things the English have in their boats, 
because it is impossible to explain them in a book. A 
foolish man who did not know of the existence of God, 
when he saw the miraculous things made by the Euro- 
peans, would call them God, and would not think they 
were made by men : though one would have pity on 
him on account of his ignorance, since even clever men 
are amazed at these things, unless they themselves have 
had a share in the making of them. One pities a foolish 
man, because he does not understand the difference 
between earthly and heavenly things. 

Later on in the day Mr. Millar took me to look at the 
engines, and I saw a long way below us one of the en- 
gineers, who looked like a little boy on account of the 
distance ; if one looks at these engines being driven 



IReflections on Seasickness 25 

by the fire, one soon gets giddy. I went and told the 
Katikiro about all I had seen, as he was ill with a head- 
ache, and was constantly sea-sick, and never left his 
chair except to eat and to be ill, and very often he had 
his meals in his chair. I was very glad that I was not 
ill or even giddy, so that Mr. Millar had only one invalid 
to look after. He used constantly to come and ask us 
how we were getting on, though the Katikiro was always 
ill. Mr. Prendergast asked Mr. Millar how it was I was 
not ill, and he told him that it was because I was accus- 
tomed to the lake in Uganda ; though this was not the 
real reason, which was that I was differently constituted 
to the Katikiro. 

There are many different kinds of people in the world ; 
some are constantly being sick when they see things 
they do not like, or smell things they do not like, or eat 
things they do not like many are like this, while others 
can eat everything without any trouble, and so it is in 
all nations of the world ; but because a man is accus- 
tomed to our Victoria Nyanza it is no reason he should 
not be ill on the sea. A great many Europeans are 
always travelling about on the sea, and yet they are ill ; 
these ships are very different from our canoes, and the 
ocean is a very different thing from our lake, for the 
waves of the sea are like mountains, and I do not think 
one can get used to these by travelling only on lakes 
like ours. 

On the morning of May 2ist I found the Katikiro hacl 



26 Tfl(unCYi't3 Ikatthiro in 



slept very badly, and was very unwell, as he had not 
been able to eat anything, and what he did eat he could 
not retain. He asked nu- if I had prayed that he might 
be able to retain his food, and I told him I had not done 
so, but had merely prayed as usual for protection ag 
all dangers on the way ; and in this prayer really the 
other matter was included, since this illness was one 
of the dangers, as if a man could not eat he would 
not fail to die. After I had left him I went back to my 
cabin and prayed earnestly about this matter, and did 
so morning and evening all through the journey. 

I asked Mr. Millar how far it was from Mombasa to 
Aden, and he told me it was about sixteen hundred 
inik-s ; and I perceived that there was more water than 
land on the earth, just as I had seen in maps. I asked 
him if there were crocodiles and hippopotami in the 
sea, and he told me there were none, but that there 
were whales and fishes. I asked him what a whale 
was like, and if it had legs like an elephant ; and he 
told me it had not, but that it was like a very large fish, 
and had a tail ; he told me also how they were killed. 

After this I played deck-quoits with Mr. Prendergast, 
and then Mr. Millar took me on to the top of the vessel, 
and I saw how it was steered, and how the officer on 
the top kept watch all round to look out for any danger, 
and how the ship was steered by compass, so that it 
did not lose its way when the sun and stars could 
not be seen. When they pass another vessel they can 



noiraclee of the Europeans 27 

talk to it by means of flags, each of which has a meaning. 
I cannot tell you all about these things, as there is nothing 
in our country to which I can compare them. 

The things of the Europeans are always amazing ; 
and I thought to myself that if we were always wondering 
at these things which we saw while we were still on the 
way, when we reached England itself we should be like 
the Apostle of our Lord who was called St. John the 
Evangelist, when he saw the wonders of God which 
he had never seen before ; and when he wrote them 
down in his book he had just to compare them to the 
earthly things they knew, though they were not really 
like them ; because if he had not compared them to 
these earthly things, how could they have understood 
all these wonders ? I, in the same way, in telling you 
these things, must just compare them to the things 
you know, though really they are not like them at all, 
as there is nothing in Uganda to which one can com- 
pare the English things ; however, we are fortunate 
in one thing, and that is that some of these things will 
not fail to be brought to Uganda, and so will be seen 
by those who never saw them in England. Already we 
have seen the wonderful telegraph, which is the greatest 
thing that has yet come to us ; the second is, perhaps, 
the steamers : these are the two wonderful things the 
Baganda have seen. 

The next morning, May 22nd, the Katikiro saw the 
coast of Somaliland ? and so felt better and walked about 



28 THattfa's 1<atihtro in 



.1 little, and later on in the day Mr. Millar got from one 
of the passengers some medicine to cure sea-sickness, 
.md th< Katikiro took four doses and was cured; and 
so we could talk a long time together. He was very 
pleased at being cured, and we talked a long time 
about our country, and how Christianity spread over 
the world, and about the things we were going to see 
in England. 

On May 23rd we passed several ships. One can under- 
stand that the sea is like a hill, as one first sees the smoke 
of a distant ship as it rises up into the air, and then as 
it comes up to the top of the hill you see the masts, and 
then when you get near to it you see all the ship. The 
Katikiro went all over our vessel with Mr. Millar, and 
came back and told me all he had seen ; Mr. Millar 
also told us that in this part of the sea there are large 
fish that eat men who are swimming in the water or 
who are shipwrecked ; they draw men down under 
the water and eat them. They live and breed in the 
water. You see the wonderful things that there are 
near Europe ! He told us also a good many things 
about the different European races ; and also told us 
to get ready the things we most required, as we should 
reach Aden in the morning. 

The next morning, May 24th, at ten o'clock, we first 
caught sight of Aden, and saw a great hill like an island. 
We reached the harbour at twelve o'clock, and found 
in it many steamers and small boats. The houses on shore 



Bfcen tbe Somalia 29 

are round the foot of the hills, and are all of stone. The 
hills have no grass on them, and are all joined together 
just like the walls of a fortress. The houses look from 
a distance like mushrooms, and are white. The Kati- 
kiro attracted my attention by saying, " Look at those 
dogs drawing carriages " ; really the animals were 
horses, but owing to the distance they looked like 
dogs, and the camels looked like calves. A great many 
Somalis brought out their boats to take men and goods 
ashore ; and when they reached the landing-place 
they were paid their fare. This custom will not fail 
to come into Uganda, as many large boats are sure to 
be built, and so little boats will be needed to take the 
cargo on and off. 

The Somalis are very like our Bayima in every way, 
both in customs and in dress, for they have little sense 
of decency. These Somalis have long been in contact 
with Europeans, and their country is near Europe, 
and yet they have never left off their evil habits ; what 
makes them the harder is that they are Muhammadans, 
and therefore they harden their hearts and hate the 
Europeans. They come to serve the Europeans because 
they are poor and want to make money, not for any 
love of them. 

The Europeans are wonderful people. The whole 
of Aden is one mass of rock ; there is no grass and no 
green thing. If you see anything green, it has been 
planted there you know how the Europeans plant 



30 Tflaaitoa'0 itatihtro in 

things in places where they will not grow naturally 
and every green thing if left to itself withers away. 

They brought some boats alongside and we \v 
ashore, and passing the custom-house went to the Hotel 
de L'Europe, which was kept by a Turk, and where 
we were to stop three days for the steamer that was 
to take us on to England. 

In the evening we went out for a drive, and passed 
along the sea-shore, near which the people have built 
a great many houses. There are all nationalities Eng- 
lish, French, Germans, Arabs, and Jews ; these last 
chiefly sell ostrich feathers to the Europeans who pass 
Aden ; they cheat them very much, as the Europeans 
are very fond of buying things that come from other 
lands. 

My friends, you had better let the Europeans teach 
in all lands, so that the people may escape from their 
ignorance. 

The English have cut through the hills at Aden and 
made a tunnel through which carriages pass ; and lamps 
on each side take the place of the sun. They make 
their carriages go up on to a high hill in the way which 
I mentioned when I was describing the hill of Lumbwa, 
so that when you go up the hill you cannot tell when 
you arrive at the top ; and at one end of the tunnel 
there is a fort with guns that will carry a distance as 
great as from Mengo to Sowe (ten miles). This state- 
ment would seem to be untrue to any one who did not 



(Slueen tDictoria'0 Birtftoa^ 3 1 



know the miracles which the English do ; there are 
some guns that will carry twenty miles, and though 
I may seem to you to be not telling the truth, yet there 
are things more wonderful than those about which 
I have told you, so that I am not ashamed of what I 
have written. The hill on which these guns are placed 
is as high as if one was to root up the hill of Rubaga 
and put it on the top of Namirembe. We saw also 
the tanks which had been made in the time of King 
Solomon, and had been repaired by the English. It 
only rains about every five years, and then the water 
comes down from all the hills and fills these pits, which 
are twelve in number. I did not see many cows at 
Aden, but the goats and horses and camels and fowls 
were everywhere in great numbers. 

As May 24th was the Queen's birthday, all the lamps 
were lit and all the ships were lit up at night, and the 
whole town glittered with them. 

When we got back to the hotel we had dinner, and 
then went for a walk and admired the houses, which 
were beautifully built, one house (row of houses) was 
as long as from Mengo to Kampala (half a mile). 

I asked Mr. Millar why they still remembered the 
Queen as she had been dead so long, and he said it was 
because they all loved her so much, and had not yet 
forgotten her, and also our King Edward had not yet 
been crowned. 

The next morning, May 25th, was Sunday, and we 



3* 1H0antta'0 Ittitiltiro in 

went to church. We found that most of the congrega- 
tion were soldiers, who had their rifles with tlum in 
church each man had his rifle beside him ; they guard 
this place very carefully, and therefore all the soldiers 
take their rifles to church. We two were the only t\v<> 
black heads in the church ; all the others were wind . 
When the service was over Mr. Millar told us to come 
outside quickly, and we saw the way the soldiers all 
held their rifles in the same way, and all turned round 
together without any one making a mistake, and all 
their feet reached the ground together. Mr. Millar 
read us the laws of the place, how no one was allowed 
to take photographs of the forts. The laws were written 
in English, French, German, and Arabic, as this place 
is in Arabia. 

We then went back to church for the Holy Com- 
munion, after which the chaplain came out and greeted 
us, and asked us if our church was like that one ; and 
we told him that ours was larger, and made of brick, not 
stone. At half-past four the Katikiro went with Mr. 
Prendergast and Mr. Millar to see the Consul ; I did 
not go with them, but when they came back the Katikiro 
told me all he had seen and how they had had tea, and 
how they had not stopped long, and how the Consul 
was a very old man with a white beard. 

If any one came to Aden who was not used to great 
heat, he would perhaps die in about ten days. Many 
of the inhabitants leave their houses, and all sleep 



{Terrible 1beat 33 

outside on account of the heat ; we ourselves spent the 
day in our loin-cloths only, in the house, and when 
we were called to have a meal we dressed properly. 
In all the houses they have large fans to make the place 
cool, and these fans are fastened together with ropes, 
and then a man stands a long way off and pulls the 
rope, and all the fans sway to and fro and you get 
a little cooler ; there is no day or night to this heat it 
is always hot. 

The next day, May 26th, we sat on the verandah of 
the hotel, and in the evening went for a drive past the 
forts and down to the sea-shore. There are a great 
many children in Aden, though the English send their 
own children to England to be educated while they 
are still very young, as the heat is too great for 
them. 



CHAPTER III 

SS. Matrm The Red Sea not red The Katikiro ill Suez The Sue* 
Canal Port Said- Athletic sports Nearing Europe 

THE next day, May 27th, we packed up our things as 
we heard that our steamer was going to arrive, and at 
half-past seven it reached the harbour. It was about 
twice as large as the one which had brought us from 
Mombasa, and was about 125 yds. long and 45 ft. 
wide. We went on board after breakfast, and the 
ship stayed a long while taking in cargo skins, flax, 
ivory, etc. ; they took on board about 5,400 bales of 
goods of different kinds. 

We had lunch in the saloon, which was as wide as the 
space between the centre pillars of Namirembe Cathedral, 
and held about a hundred passengers. When dinner- 
time came we put on our best clothes, and as we entered 
the saloon all the passengers turned round to look at us, 
and kept their eyes on us all the time we were there, 
and we wondered if they were looking at us to see what 
we were eating, or whether they wondered what country 
we had come from. After dinner we walked up and 
down the deck, as is the custom of the English to stretch 
their legs. 

34 



on Boarfc a JTat fIDan 35 

There were a great many Jews on board, going from 
Aden to Egypt with their wives and children, and they 
were very much bullied by the sailors, so that I felt 
quite sorry for them ; they abused them and struck 
them and tormented them in every way ; they never 
walked about on the boat like other deck passengers, 
and even the small children bullied them. They were all 
very timid, and ran away from any one who threatened 
them ; they were like defeated soldiers, afraid of every- 
thing. These Jews, however, are great cheats when 
they trade ; a thing worth two rupees they sell for ten, 
though if you know their customs you can get it for five 
or six ; they chiefly sell silks and ostrich feathers, and 
are not ashamed to overcharge for them, and take them 
to every ship that comes into the harbour. 

There was on board the boat a very fat man, as fat 
as Nakatanza and Raima l rolled into one. It is difficult 
to tell you the size of some of the English ; when they 
see a man as fat as Nakatanza, they say, " In a few years 
that man will be fat." 

The next day, May 28th, we reached the Red Sea, 
though it is not really red ; the water is quite black, 
and we were surprised that a black sea should be called 
" The Red Sea." We asked the captain why it was 
called the Red Sea, and he said that perhaps it was 
because the inhabitants of the coast were red in colour, 
and so it was called the sea of the red people, and thus 
1 These are the two fattest men in Uganda. 



36 Iflflantw's ikntiluro in 

the name got changed to the Red Sea. It is a very large 
sea 1,308 miles long, and from 80 to 150 miles broad. 

We passed the island of Perim, on which were some 
houses belonging to the English ; thm- are no n;r 
on the island ; the people are only there in order to 
guard the passage, just as they are at Aden and Gibraltar, 
to stop bad people passing ; this is what I think myself. 
We also saw an island of rock, only with no earth on it, 
and on this a tower had been erected, with a lamp at 
the top, to warn ships to keep away from the rocks : this 
sea has many rocks in it that break up ships, but now- 
a-days there are not many accidents, as the whole sea 
has been examined, and so they know what it is like, 
and can go through safely by means of the compass and 
the stars, which show them the right road. 

The next day, May 29th, after breakfast the captain 
came to us and asked us how we had slept. He only 
knew English, and asked the Katikiro if he was learning 
it, and the Katikiro said " Yes," and he said he hoped 
he would know it by the time he went back to Uganda. 
Mr. Millar then came up, and the captain took us up on 
the bridge and showed us a map of the Red Sea, and also a 
very old map of our lake, the Victoria Nyanza, made in the 
time of King Mutesa. He showed us a great many other 
things, and later on we saw some water under a micro- 
scope, and in it was a thing like a caterpillar, which was 
invisible to the naked eye. We were amazed at the 
cleverness of the Europeans in thus being able to see 



IRatffciro's flDanp 3Unea0e0 37 

things invisible to the ordinary eye. Things such as 
this one cannot tell to an ignorant man, because they 
would appear as idle tales to him. Mr. Millar said, 
" Do you see that caterpillar ? That is the reason we 
boil our water " ; and we from that time saw why water 
ought to be boiled. 

Later on it became very rough, and the Katikiro and 
I returned to our cabins, and had our food brought to 
us ; he was very ill, but I was not actually sick myself, 
though I felt uncomfortable. 

At one time the ship got a little out of its course without 
the steersman noticing it, and the captain at once rushed 
up on to the deck and abused him for his carelessness. 
I saw this myself, and understood how the captain was 
looking well after the boat. 

The next day, May 30th, Mr. Millar came and asked 
us if we were not going on deck, and we went up ; but 
it was very cold and so I did not stay there long. Another 
reason that prevented me from stopping there was that 
the English ladies and their children were sitting all 
over the deck, and there was hardly room to pass, and 
I did not like to keep forcing my way past them. The 
Katikiro soon also came down below, and was very ill 
during the day with six different illnesses, cold, fever, 
sore throat, indigestion, gumboils, and headache, and 
I was very distressed about him, but he consented to 
eat a little food. Mr. Millar asked the doctor to come 
in and see him, and he gave him some medicine. The 



38 Tfloanfca'0 fcatifuro in England 

former also came in seven times during the night to see 
him, and this showed me how unwell the Katikiro was, 
and I kept awake all night to see after him, as he was 
continually tossing in his berth. 

Mr. Millar helped us a great deal in everything we 
required, and would not sit with the other Europeans, 
but always sat with us, and covered the Katikiro with 
his own rug when they sat together, so as to keep his 
knees warm, though other Europeans would not do such 
a thing as that ; and he was not afraid of their despising 
him. I think there were two reasons why he did this : 
first, because he was a real Christian ; and secondly, 
he followed the customs of his nation in their kind govern- 
ment, and did not want to bring shame on his nation, 
because the English rule righteously in all lands, whether 
of wise nations or of ignorant nations, and they honour 
men who do not themselves expect to be honoured. 
This nation is a truly peaceable nation in all its laws, 
which are in many ways like the laws in the Bible. 

The following day, May 3ist, Mr. Millar came to ask 
us to go on deck ; but the Katikiro would not go as 
he had not slept well. However, I said I would come 
up after him ; but when I reached the deck, I could 
not see him there were only ladies and children, so I 
went down again, and kept quiet, and the Katikiro 
got a little sleep, and I too slept a little, and then we 
both went on deck and found Mr. Prendergast and Mr. 
Millar, and talked to them for some time, and asked them 



Sues in (Quarantine 39 

where all the passengers came from ; and they told 
us that some of them were soldiers, some missionaries, 
some tea-planters, and so on, and that they were all 
going to England to rest. At night we asked a great 
deal about the various customs of the English, and wrote 
them all down, so that we should make no mistakes, 
as every nation has its own customs. In the evening 
the wind dropped, and the sea got a little calmer. 

The following day, June ist, we passed an island 
with a lighthouse on it, the light of which was 
turned up and down by clockwork, and in the evening 
reached the town of Suez, the lights of which were like 
stars. The governor of the town and the doctor sent 
us a message that they would come and examine us in 
the morning ; and that we were not to go away until 
we had been examined. Our captain was very angry, 
as he wanted to get on his way ; but doctors are held 
in great honour, and one cannot disobey them, so that, 
although the captain was angry, yet he had to obey. 

The next day, June 2nd, at six o'clock, Mr. Millar 
called us, saying, " Come and be examined ; the doctor 
has arrived," and so we went on deck quickly. They 
first examined the Indians, because there was plague 
in their country, and then they read out the names 
of the Europeans, and then we were told it was all 
over, and we were very pleased. We thought that 
perhaps, owing to the Katikiro's illness, we might have 
to leave the boat, since he had been ill for seven days ; 



40 Tflflairta'0 luitihtro in 

and even a person who was not a doctor could tell how 
ill he was, as he had got very thin from eating so little. 
Tht y took off two sick people to keep them until 
got well, and then they would let them go on by another 
steamer, since steamers are constantly passing. 

They gave us an electric light, which was very strong, 
and hung it over the bows of the ship to prevent us from 
running into another one ; the light from this lamp 
was much greater than that of the sun, and one could 
not bear to look at it. It was brighter than the sun 
at its brightest. We met another ship in the canal 
at night, and I tried to look at its light, but could not 
do so for more than a part of a minute ; it was so bright 
it made our ship look as if it were whitewashed. Mr. 
Millar took me down to show me the engine that made 
the light, but when he began to explain it I was just 
like a little child in being quite unable to understand 
it ; the machine made 9,000 revolutions a minute. 

This canal is a marvellous thing, and shows how the 
Europeans can always do whatever they set about doing. 
It is as long as from Mengo to Wakoli's, eighty-seven 
miles, and is all cut through the sand, and is so deep 
that it will take vessels seven stories high. It is not 
wide one could throw a stone or an orange across from 
side to side ; and when two ships meet, they tie one 
up to posts on the bank to let the other pass. They 
always tie up a ship coming from Europe to make room 
for one going to Europe, as the latter has on board 



Canal port Saifc 41 

tired people going home to rest. There are all manner 
of different coloured lamps along the canal, each with 
a meaning for the sailors. We found workmen widening 
it in some places, and saw how camels worked in 
carrying away the sand ; each camel knelt down till 
its panniers were filled, and then got up and went 
away when it was ordered to do so. 

The town of Suez is built on the breakwater, and there 
are rows of trees planted and watered as in Aden, so 
that the inhabitants may have shade. As you pass 
along the canal you come to a wider part, on which is 
the town of Ismailia, and near this is the road along 
which they brought our Lord when He was young and 
His parents were fleeing from Herod, who killed the 
little children in Bethlehem. 

The houses of the Egyptians are high and fine, like 
those of the Europeans, but not so much decorated. I 
cannot compare the beauty of the English houses to 
anything else you will hear about them later on. 

At midnight on June 2nd we reached Port Said, which 
is on the Mediterranean Sea, which St. Paul crossed 
when he went to preach the Gospel, and in which 
are the islands of Cyprus and Crete, and also Sicily, 
which is near Rome. Port Said is a large town not 
far from Alexandria, where the Nile flows into the sea ; 
we did not expect to see towns like this in Africa we 
thought we should only find them in Europe. 

The next morning, June 3rd, the Katikiro called me 



*- IHoanba'0 ikatihiro in nolnni> 

to look at the town and see what it was like, as at night 
we had only seen the lights. Some of the houses were as 
much as six stories high, and the whole place was very 
well laid out, and there were a great many people about. 
After we had finished taking in coals we left, passing 
many ships in the harbour and numbers of small boats. 

We left Cyprus and also Jerusalem to the right, and 
did not see these places, though we should very much 
have liked to have done so, because they are very famous 
in the Bible. 

I was a little unwell during the day, and the Katikiro 
was rather worse in the evening, but did not wish to 
see the doctor. 

The next day, June 4th, we were on the sea near 
Crete, the island on which St. Paul left Titus to be 
the bishop of the church ; Captain Sanders showed us 
the island at about two o'clock, when it appeared like 
a cloud in the distance, but at five o'clock we got near 
to it and passed by the side of it. The Katikiro was very 
much worse and ate nothing during the day ; he went up 
on deck to look at the sea, as he was tired of stopping 
in his cabin, and thus he got a chill and was worse ; 
however, Mr. Millar persuaded him to come to the dining- 
table, and he ate a little lunch and then had a hot bath. 
I was much amazed at the cleverness of the English, 
because the steward first turned a tap and let in cold 
water from the sea, and then turned another tap and 
let in steam from the boiler, which made the water hot. 



Sports on 2>ecfc 43 

One wonders more each day and each hour that one 
sees the cleverness of the English, which is never ending. 
They are not white men for nothing ; in all countries 
white things are considered very beautiful, and so also 
the English deserve to be held in honour, not only on 
account of their white colour, but because to their white- 
ness they add very wonderful wisdom, and just as a 
blacksmith or a carpenter is given praise on account 
of the good work he does, so they should be praised 
on account of what they do. 

The Katikiro was worse in the evening, so I went for 
Mr. Millar, and he came down with the doctor and Mr. 
Prendergast, and found that his temperature had gone 
up to 102. The doctor gave him some medicine, and 
he perspired gently during the night. He was a very 
obedient patient, and did whatever I told him with- 
out arguing, and was not troublesome as some other 
people are. 

The following day, June 5th, the doctor gave him some 
more medicine, and he got a good deal better, and was 
able to go on deck to see the sports. They had a race. 
in which the people collected potatoes and put them 
into buckets ; and another in which they raced, each 
one having a potato in a tea-spoon, and many other 
kinds of races. I noticed the honour they gave to the 
ladies, as a lady was chosen to give away the prizes. 

There were about eighty Europeans looking on at 
the sports, and one would not have believed that such 



44 IflQanDa'e 1<atihiro in 

things could be done on a ship, as all the time the sports 
were going on the ship was not standing still, but going 
on its way. 

The next morning, June 6th, we caught sight of the 
coast of the mainland of Rome, and first saw a large 
hill near the town of Reggio ; we soon passed through 
the sea which divides Italy from Sicily, which was as 
wide as from Munyonyo to Kisinsi. On the island 
of Sicily is a high hill covered with snow, which is behind 
the town of Messina. After we passed the straits we 
went near an island called Stromboli, on which was a 
sharp-pointed hill, from which a great deal of fire comes 
out and also smoke. 

On this day I saw how the Europeans dance to the 
piano, a thing which they like doing very much. When 
they dance they jump up and down and twist round, 
men and women holding on to each other in pairs ; 
for my own part I preferred the music to the dancing, 
which I thought was a shameful thing, for men and 
women to dance thus together. They danced in many 
different kinds of ways, a different way for each tune. 

After this the Katikiro called me to come and see 
the machine that makes the cold to prevent the 
meat going bad. I took hold of some of the 
lumps of cold stuff (snow), which was like hail, and I 
wanted to take it away, but Mr. Millar told me it 
would melt, so I left it ; it made my hands very cold 
indeed, so that they nearly cracked with the cold. 



CHAPTER IV 

Naples Pompeii Marseilles European trains France Arrival in London 
The Westminster Palace Hotel 

THE next day, June yth, we arrived at Naples at five 
o'clock, and saw all the large houses. Mr. Millar told 
us to get ready to go on shore, and we went off before 
breakfast and got into a little steamer, which took us 
ashore, and then a guide came to take us round Naples, 
and also to show us the town of Pompeii, which was 
destroyed in the times of the Apostles. We got into a 
carriage and drove along, looking at the large houses 
and the beautiful streets and the numbers of people, 
and the many horses and donkeys and cattle that were 
drawing the peasants' carts. If one was to lose sight 
of one's friends for four minutes, one would be lost, as 
all the streets and all the houses are alike. 

We drove to the railway station, and then went about 
seven miles by train, and our guide bought us some 
breakfast, and we paid him for it, and he then bought 
some " tickets " to enable us to pass along all the roads. 
These tickets are small bits of paper, which are signs of 
the permission you are given to travel everywhere, and 
without them you cannot go anywhere. After we had 

45 



'0 luitiluro in 

bought our tickets the guide took us to Pompeii. The 
Romans enclosed all the place after they had dug it out, 
and arranged to take tribute from every one who wished 
to see it, since a wonderful thing like this would not 
to bring sightseers, and it cost a great deal to dig out. 
Even now it is not yet all dug out. They showed us 
many little hills, which they told us were all houses. 
The mountain from which the fire came to destroy this 
town is about three miles off. 

We first went into a house in which were bodies that 
had been dug up ; men, horses, bears, cows, cats, dogs, 
etc., and everything was just as it was in the old times. 
We saw all the evil practices of the people in those days. 
We went into the town and saw what the roads were like, 
and entered a great many houses. 

I want you to understand, my friends, how that the 
evil of this city brought its terrible judgment on it, 
and its sin was like that of Sodom and Gomorrah. We 
saw many unspeakably bad things. God is very long- 
suffering, though men are foolish ; and though they have 
seen this town, yet many do not repent of their evil 
habits, or leave off spoiling their cities, though God will 
execute His judgment on them in His own time, and 
therefore we all should remember that there is nothing 
more valuable than our lives. 

Our guide then took us to the station, and we had to 
wait there about half an hour, and while there we saw a 
telegraph that wrote down everything ; afterwards the 



Jfrom maples to fll>ar0eiUe0 47 

train came in, and we went to Naples and drove round 
the town. When Mr. Millar saw how we were surprised 
at the number of people, he told us we should see many 
times more than these in London ; and we could not 
understand this, although it was true. He would not 
allow us to speak to the people we saw, because some 
of them were beggars, and others would have abused 
people like us ; so he took care of us and showed us every- 
thing, and we did not get very tired. After this we 
went back to our ship, which left in the evening. 

The next morning, June 8th, we passed the islands of 
Corsica and Sardinia, and they called us to see a whale ; 
but when we reached the deck the ship had left it behind, 
it was going so fast. 

The inhabitants of Corsica are very lawless, and are 
always fighting with one another, and will not obey any 
of their rulers, and do not like strangers. 

After passing Corsica the wind became very strong, 
and the sailors had to take down the awnings as the 
waves came on to the ship. I stayed some time looking 
at the waves, and then went to call the Katikiro to look 
at them ; but he could not stay long it was too cold. 
At night I could not finish my dinner, and the Katikiro 
could not eat anything, on account of the roughness of 
the sea. 

The next morning, June gih, found us nearing Mar- 
seilles, the port of France where travellers land from 
Africa. There were a great many ships in the harbour, 



48 1\ianba'0 fcatifctro in 

large ships, and men-of-war, and Mn.ill st< amers. \\ 
we got into the harbour .1 in.ni rame alongside, who did 
a great many acrobatic tricks with his daughter and a 
dog, and we were surprised at all the different things the 
Europeans learn to do one is always finding something 
new. 

All the goods for Marseilles were then taken off the 
steamer, and our things were taken on shore with them, 
as we wished to get to England quickly, and so were 
going to cross France by train, a journey of one day only, 
whereas to go round by sea would take eight days. 

Mr. Millar told us to get ready to leave the boat, and 
after lunch we went with the guide, who had asked us 
to allow him to show us round the town. He brought us 
a carriage drawn by a horse, and we got in and went to 
see what Marseilles was like. He first showed us the 
very old wall of the town, which had been built by the 
Romans, and a very ancient church, a fine building of 
stone. 

We then went to see the greatest church in the land, 
which was three thousand years old ; it was built 
in 1098 B.C., and was first a temple, where they used to 
offer up their children, but afterwards it was made into 
a Christian church, as it is now. We then saw the large 
harbour, in which were a great many ships, perhaps 
seven hundred ; the masts of them were like a forest 
of dead trees, and we wondered with an unending wonder, 
because wherever we went we found something new 



Marseilles 49 

to wonder at. After this we went up a very high hill 
to get a general view of the town ; we went up a pre- 
cipice. They took us into a room which they called 
" lifet " (lift). They make a thing like the room in 
a house, and a man comes and turns a handle, and a 
great deal of water comes out, and when all the water 
is finished, the room goes up by itself. 

When we got to the top I looked down at the carriages 
and horses which had brought us, and they looked like 
goats. We then looked over the town, which is very 
large indeed, and contains a great many people, who 
are very busy in their different occupations. They are 
like locusts in number. At the top of the hill they have 
built a very beautiful church ; it is impossible for me 
to tell you about the ornaments outside and the paintings 
on the roof. The floor is of black and white pavement, 
and looks like a piece of cloth, but if you walk care- 
lessly you fall ; I myself nearly fell down, as it was so 
slippery. Inside they put also many of the objects 
of their religion, all of gold, and also a great many very 
beautiful pictures. After we had seen the church we 
went back the way we came. This lift is put there to 
make money, because there are a great many people 
who come to see the church, as it is so fine, and many 
come from the town to service ; and when a man sees 
that if he goes all the way round he will take a long 
time, and he has the money to pay, he will not fail to 
go up this way, and pay to do so, as we did, because 

4 



50 Tfloaitoa'9 itatffoiro in Cnglant* 

we did not wish to go all the way round, and this was 
the shortest way, and everything costs money. 

We reached the bottom and paid for our journey Mi . 
Millar always did the paying, as we did not understand 
how to do it and then got into our carriage, and our 
guide took us to see a house of remembrance (picture 
gallery), in which were pictures of all the ancient saints 
of God, and of the old kings of Europe and other lands, 
such as Africa and Egypt ; there were pictures also 
of the chief men of these lands who had done great 
deeds, and of all the bishops, and of the different battles 
of old time. We also saw a great many pictures which 
were not worthy of being exhibited, as they were of 
people in a state of nature, and were most shameful ! ! ! 

This building was a very large one, and tired us a 
good deal. After this we went to see the water they 
carried underground, and which came out through the 
mouths of statues of many animals lions and cows 
and horses and men they made the fountain thus to 
gladden the eyes. The water fell at last into a pool, 
from which it returned whither it had come ; it was very 
cold and splashed like a waterfall, but a waterfall has 
more water in it. After this we went to look for a house 
where they sell food (hotel), and then after dinner went 
to see if our train had come. 

We had been a short time at the station when we 
heard it whistle, and when it arrived we got into our 
compartment. We four had a compartment to our- 



Ebrougb 3f ranee 5 1 

selves Apolo Katikiro, Mr. Prendergast, E. Millar, 
and H. Mukasa. Our friends were very kind to us, 
and gave us the best places, and we had beds to sleep 
on. When I saw how fast the European trains went 
I understood that there was nothing to which I could 
compare them. For want of anything else I might com- 
pare them to the way a bullet travels, as I know how 
fast that goes ; failing this, there is nothing else to which 
I could compare them. Well, let me ask you what 
sort of a thing is it that only takes one day from 
Mengo to Mombasa ? If you can think of anything 
that does this, you can compare the rate of a train to 
it, because this is the distance across France as far as 
Calais, the port on the other side. 

The next morning, June loth, we woke up as we were 
travelling through France, and saw how the country 
people had built themselves very nice houses, and how 
well they had cultivated their land. The country is 
a very fine one, and is divided up into pieces ; one field 
we saw as long as from Mengo to Munyonyo (eight 
miles) not divided up into pieces, and sown in different 
parts with different kinds of seed, red and yellow and 
green and white all mixed up, and when we looked at 
it from a distance it was very pleasing to the eye. 

At 8 a.m. we reached Paris, the capital of France, 
and wondered at the large houses and wide roads and 
many horses, and the men like ants in numbers ; the 
houses resembled hills in their height and size. We saw 



52 lHoairta's "katilnro in 

also a tall pillar they had put up, with the figure of a man 
on the top standing on one leg, with wings and with a 
sword in his hand ; when you look at the top of it you 
hold on to your hat so that it shall not fall off, it is so 
high. If you go to the top of it you can see all over 
the city, but we did not do so, but only saw it from 
below. This pillar was put there as a memorial to 
ivmind people of the prison into which their king used 
to put them (Bastile) ; when they removed the prison 
they put this pillar up, and wrote on it all about what 
happened at that time, as a memorial. We stayed 
two hours in this town and had breakfast, and then 
got into another train, and went to Calais, the port 
for England ; and as we went we admired the country, 
which was one to be desired, as it was pleasing to the 
eyes. 

When we got to Calais they brought a steamer with 
two paddles, one on each side ; it went on the water 
like a horse gallops on land ; the distance across was 
as far as that from Entebbe to Lulamba, and took us 
an hour and a half, and then we reached Dover, which 
is the English landing-place from France, and saw the 
long pier which they are making out from the land, 
and alongside of which the ships land their passengers. 
It goes out into the sea a distance equal to that from 
Munyonyo to the island of Bulinguge, and is all of stone, 
and we were amazed to see it. We got quickly into the 
train, and it took us to London. As it went we looked 



arrival in Xonton 53 

at the country and the houses, and reached London 
at 7 p.m. But if it were possible for the eyes to be sore 
from seeing so much, when we came back to Uganda 
you would have seen how sore our eyes were, and would 
have understood and said, " Yes, we see you ; you have 
indeed seen many marvellous sights." 

When we arrived we found Sir Clement Hill and 
Captain Hobart waiting for us at the station, which 
was called Victoria ; as Mr. Prendergast had telegraphed 
to tell them of our arrival. We thought Sir Clement 
Hill, who is such a great man, most kind thus to come 
and meet us on our way, and we perceived we were 
among friends, since we had thus been met. After Sir 
Clement Hill had welcomed us he told Captain Hobart to 
take us to where we were to live, as he had been appointed 
to help us in everything connected with our visit to 
England ; and Mr. Millar was our interpreter. Captain 
Hobart took us away in a fine carriage to the place where 
we were to stop, which was in a house for strangers, 
called a " hotel " ; the name of our hotel was the West- 
minster Palace Hotel, and it was in the road called 
Victoria Street, near the Houses of Parliament. When 
we entered that house it was as if we were going into 
the house of the King himself ; it was magnificent and 
beautiful beyond praise, and we looked about from side 
to side admiring it. Though one is praised for restraining 
oneself and not looking about, it is impossible not to 4o 
so in England. 



54 1H0ant>a'0 ikatilurc in 

We went into the room which takes people to 
upper floors, and after we had got in the servant shut 
the door, and told us to sit down, and we sat on the 
seat ; the servant then pulled a small rope and the room 
took us up, like the thing did at Marseilles, about win. h 
I told you. We soon reached our rooms on the third 
floor ; the number of the inner room in which I and 
the Katikiro slept was 208 ; that of Mr. Millar was 209. 
They showed us everything ; the dining-room, and the 
bedroom, and the bath-room, and everything else, and 
then we sat down, and all the servants, both men and 
women, came to hear what their work was to be. They 
know that every visitor has his own habits as to eating 
and as to drinking tea ; one wants to drink every hour, 
another does not do so ; one likes many different kinds 
of food, another likes a few kinds ; they showed us also 
the things that call the servants to bring the food, or 
water, and we learned all about them. The work of 
the servants is this : the men do the cooking, the women 
make the beds and bring the early tea, and water for 
washing the face, and clean the boots, and they turn 
on the bath-water but we would not let them do this, 
but did it for ourselves ; they also washed our clothes, 
and lit the fires for us when it was cold not every 
day. 

Captain Hobart stayed a long time talking to us, 
he was very fond of us, and we knew him ; he had 
learned Luganda, because he had been two years in the 



Captain Ibobart 55 

country, and had been questioned by Mr. Fletcher, one 
of the C.M.S. missionaries, and had been passed by 
him while he was in Uganda. After a while he went 
away and we had dinner ; and as it was very cold 
the chamber-maid lit the fire, and the room got 
warm. After dinner we sat at the table and wrote 
our letters. 



CHAPTER V 

.uished visitors The origin <>f this book The Army and Navy 
Stores First impressions of London Dinner with Sir Henry M. Stanley 
The House of Commons The British Museum- "The Tube" 
Sen-ice in St. Paul's Cathedral Boys' Brigade Camp Lunch with Sir 
II. II. Johnston The Zoological Gardens. 

THE next morning, after breakfast, our friend, Sir H. 
Stanley, came to see us ; he had come to Uganda long 
ago, while we were still children. After the Katikiro 
had greeted him he thanked him for the letters he had 
written to Zakariya Kisingire (Kizito), urging him to 
teach the people of our land all the things one can learn 
in this life that are helpful to body and soul. We talked 
to him a long time about the present state of affairs in 
Uganda, and how things were in the old times of Mutesa, 
who was king at the time he visited the country. We 
talked a very long time to him and to his wife, who had 
come with him, and who is as kind as her husband. 
She would have liked, had it been possible, to have come 
to Uganda to see the country. 

Sir Clement Hill next came to see us, and talked to 
us a long time about Uganda affairs, and we told him 
all the things that seemed most important to us, 
and about which we had wished to tell him ; he also 

5" 



anfc Iflav^ Stores 57 



asked us about the country of Kavirondo, and about 
a great many other matters. He asked us what we 
thought of what we had seen in England, and what 
most astonished us, and we told him. He asked us 
if we wrote down what we saw, and Mr. Millar said to 
him, " Ham Mukasa writes it all down every day " ; 
and he said that we ought to get our book translated 
into English and printed, because a great many people 
would like to read it and would buy it ; and I said that 
it would be difficult to get the money to print it. He 
said that it would cost us nothing, and Mr. Millar under- 
took to translate it into English. 

After this a reporter came to see the Katikiro and 
get some details of his early life ; and then Captain 
Hobart took him away to write his name in the King's 
visitors' book, while Mr. Millar and I went to the shops 
to buy things. 

When we got into the shop (Army and Navy Stores) 
my eyes itched with wonder at the beautiful things. 
The way they decorate their shops is most wonderful ; 
it would be difficult to find anything they do not sell 
there all kinds of clothing, for men, women, and 
children, everything of every kind that you may want 
you find there ; I saw also a room filled with people 
drinking tea. The people who had come there to buy 
things were like those who were going off to a war, some 
going upstairs, some downstairs, and some being carried 
up in little rooms like the one I have told you about 



58 THoaitoa'0 1<atiluro in 



in which they took us up in the hotel. I saw a great 
many people, both men, women, and children, staring 
at me, for in that house there were perhaps ten thou- 
sand or more people, and I was the only black man. 
There was one old man who came quite close behind 
me to see what I was like, and when he saw that I had 
turned round to look at him he turned his eyes away 
quickly ; but when I saw he was ashamed to go on 
looking at me, I turned away my eyes so that he could 
have a good look at what I was like, and he stayed a 
long time looking at me ; and this led me to understand 
that since he had become an old man he had never seen 
a black man, or perhaps he might have seen one at a 
distance, but never so close as I was. 

When we got back we found the Katikiro had re- 
turned, -and he told us about what he had seen in the 
King's palace, and about the King's soldiers and what 
the palace was like, and I told him what I had seen. 
After lunch we opened the windows of our room and 
looked at the people in the streets outside our house, 
and saw people and carriages going to and fro like locusts ; 
one would think they had no place of their own, and 
were busy walking up and down, although really every 
one is going where he wishes to go. 

We were very much surprised at the number of Eng- 
lish people in London, and remembered what Mr. Millar 
had said to us in Naples and Marseilles, " These people 
whom you think so many are really very few ; you will 



Dinner witb Captain fbobart 59 

see many times more than these " ; and we saw that 
what he had said had come to pass. In this city the 
people walk about till one or two o'clock in the morn- 
ing ; the English sleep very little, and therefore they 
get very rich, because " A sluggard will not fail to beg 
of him who is not a sluggard," the meaning of which 
saying is that a lazy man begs from a man who works 
hard, and therefore all our nations require many things 
from the English. 

In the evening we went to dinner with Captain Hobart, 
and he and his wife and sister and aunt and mother 
welcomed us and were very kind to us ; his aunt played 
for us very beautifully on the piano. After dinner we 
went over the house and saw the things he had brought 
from our country of Uganda spears, and skins of animals 
he had shot. When we got back to the hotel, we said 
we would not use the lift, but go up by the stairs, to see 
what they were like in these high houses. We went 
round and round ; the stairs went up by a gentle rise ; 
they were not at all steep, and we took a long time getting 
up, and said, " If we had gone up by the lift we would 
have been there sooner," though we climbed the stairs 
by our own wish. 

The next day Captain Hobart took us to buy some 
things with Mr. Millar. We went to that fine shop (Army 
and Navy Stores), and they bought us macintoshes to 
keep the rain off, and we bought some clothes for our- 
selves, and walked through the house and saw what 



60 Tflaitfa'0 Iwitihiro in 



a great number of people there were in it ; tin- one house 
was as large as one of our towns, as beside- 
h .mil brvadth it was also very high, and i 
were a great many people in it. The number of things 
that were in it was wonderful coats, hats, bedsteads, 
(hairs, sticks, umbrellas, boots, socks, ladies' clothing. 
looking-glasses, clocks, footballs, exercise-books, picture- 
books, and all kinds of things for young and old to 
play with. I cannot tell you about all the things the 
English have I must just leave off ; the things I have 
not told you of are innumerable. 

We also visited other places, and the Katikiro went 
to the house where they talk over matters (Parliament), 
and saw a great many chiefs debating in the place where 
they debate about their government, which brings 
peace in their country and in the countries of others. 
When he came back he told me how he had seen those 
houses, and where the members of Parliament sat, and 
I very much wanted to write down all he had seen, but 
he could not tell me properly, and said he had forgotten 
some of the things, and we agreed to ask leave to go 
together in future, so that if one forgot the other might 
remember. 

At night we went to dinner with Sir H. Stanley, and 
found him with a great many people ; Lady Dorothy 
Stanley and he greeted us warmly, and he called his 
child, Denzil Stanley, to shake hands with us ; and 
introduced all the people to us, giving our names and 



dinner witb Sir 1b, Stanley 61 

the name of the person who was introduced to us, 
and we then sat down and Lady Stanley talked to us, 
and told us how interested she was in our country, and 
asked us a great deal about it. She also showed us a 
cup which had been made for them, and on it were 
figures of a black man and of tusks of ivory and of spears 
from our country, and also a picture of the whole land 
of Africa. 

After this we went in to dinner and ate the food that 
had been chosen for us, of a great many different kinds, 
after the fashion of the English ; there were also ripe 
bananas, which we did not eat. After dinner the ladies 
went away and the men only remained, as is their custom 
everywhere, and we talked to the master of the house, 
and he told us of a great many things that bring peace 
and prosperity such as teaching the people how to 
work, and teaching all the children, so that they can 
afterwards do work that would make them rich. We 
were pleased at what he said, because he is like our 
father from having been in our country, and from having 
told everybody about what he saw ; he therefore talked 
to us as to his children. 

After this he took us to see a picture of our old King 
Mutesa, which he had drawn ; it was exactly like him, 
and the Katikiro said, " If you have many copies of the 
picture I would like one " ; and he said that he had only 
this one picture, but that he would get a copy made and 
give it to the Katikiro. After this we went upstairs, and 



62 TH0aifta'e fcattfetro in 

Lady Stanley got out her machine which talks like a man, 
and which is called a " fornegraph," and we all spoke 
into it. They told me to sing some of our songs into 
it. and I did so, and they were all very pleased. After 
this they took us into another room, and Lady Stanley 
got ready a large piano and played to us on it ; this 
piano played by itself ; you trod on the bottom part 
of it like you do in similar instruments, and it played 
by itself. After she had finished, first the Katikiro 
and then I played on it, and soon after we went back 
home. 

The next morning, June 13th, it rained all day ; Mr. 
Samwili (Herbert Samuel, M.P.) came to see us he 
was the man who paid a short visit to Uganda, and then 
returned to England ; two of the leaders of the Church 
Missionary Society also came to see us, and then Mr. 
Ernest Gedge, who had been in Uganda long ago, and 
from whom we got the name " geji," by which we call 
our small Sneider rifles. In the afternoon we went to tea 
with Captain Hobart, and then the Katikiro went with 
him to see the Duke of Norfolk, and Mr. Millar and I 
returned home. When the Katikiro returned he 
told us of all he had seen, and what they had said to 
him (the Duke of Norfolk was not at home), and how 
kind Captain Hobart's father was, and how he had given 
him two books about the coronation. The Katikiro and 
I then told Captain Hobart how we wanted in future to 
go together, because one man cannot see everything, and 



Britiab flDuseum 63 

forgets a great many things he has seen ;~but Captain 
Hobart said that when only one was invited it was hard 
to take others and so we let the matter drop. 

The following day, June I4th, we went to the house of 
images of all kinds (the British Museum), which con- 
tained many wonderful things of long ago, statues of 
the old kings of all countries and of Egypt. We saw 
also the body of a man said to be eight thousand years 
old. We could not understand whether this was true or 
not, because we see in the Bible that those who calculate 
the time from the Creation make it out to be nearly six 
thousand years ; and after this one is told that this 
body is eight thousand years old ! Is not this a thing 
to be wondered at ? We saw also other remains, 5,000, 
4>5oo, 3,700, 2,000, 2,500 years old. On every statue 
they write its name, its age, and the country from 
which it comes, so that people can understand. 

This house of images, the British Museum, is very 
large indeed, about twenty times as large as the Nami- 
rembe Cathedral ; you can understand the size of it 
if I tell you that when you walk about in it it is just 
as if you were not in a house at all, and you think you 
are outside. The posts that support it are very large, 
as large as one of the largest of our trees, but of dressed 
stone ; the outside posts are twice as high as the eaves 
of our cathedral. 

The bodies in there are looked at in a very ingenious 
way. They make glass boxes and put the bodies inside, 



's fcatihtro in 

so that tin y shall not be damaged or touched ; 
also write up notices, " Do not tourh." You can see 
through the glass whatever is inside, and this is tin- 
custom throughout. When we were at Pompeii we saw 
how the hands of those who had come to draw water 
at the wells had worn down the stone it was quite 
worn down wlu-iv they took hold as they d tter ; 

and this is the reason they do not let people touch what 
is exhibited, because they do not want the things spoiled, 
since numbers of people go to the Museum every day, 
and if each one caught hold of the things they would be 
worn out in a month. 

We saw there different articles from our country ; 
some had been brought by Sir H. H. Johnston, who 
had given a great many things, and others by other 
Englishmen : the Rev. J. Roscoe had given a great 
many, the Rev. R. P. Ashe had given a great many, and 
others too had given things from our country of Uganda. 

After seeing all this we went home, and Dr. B. W. 
Walker, the brother of Archdeacon Walker, came to 
see us. He is very much like his brother ; you could 
well go up to him and say, " Good morning, Archdeacon 
Walker," mistaking him for his brother, they are so 
much alike. Mr. Millar's brother also came to see us"; 
his name was Charles Millar, a very kind man. He laughs 
and jokes with people, and is very cheerful, and every 
day is the same as he was the day before. 

We afterwards intended to go and see the boys drill 



<>n the Tflnfcerorounb 65 

(inspection of Boys' Brigades by H.R.H. the Prince of 
Wales), but Captain Hobart never came to take us ; and 
when he did come he wanted to take the Katikiro to see 
the King, and had merely come to tell him when he would 
take him, and went away saying, " I will tell you when 
the time comes." He said that the King's secretary 
had told him that they would send him a messenger 
when he was to bring the Katikiro. However, when 
the King saw he had not time to see the Katikiro, 
because he had so much work, he said, " I cannot 
see him now ; I will see him to-morrow, when I have 
finished my work." 

We then went out to see the wonders of England. 
We went with Mr. Millar and his brother, Charles Millar, 
and first went in our carriages to see the wonderful 
railways that go through the town underground. The 
English truly are marvellous people ! The railway was 
called " Central London," and is a hundred feet below 
the ground ; we saw many roads, and trains passing, and 
the people who were there were like locusts in numbers. 
If your friend were to leave you for some time, you would 
get lost owing to the numbers of people. The roads 
there are very fine and wonderful ; they have electric 
lamps, which shine and act as suns. If any one were 
to take you there, and did not tell you that you were 
going underground, when you arrived you would not 
know that you were under the earth because the roads 
are so fine and the electric light is so bright, and the 

5 



66 1flQaitoa'0 fcatifotro in 

people are like locusts in numbers ; and all these tl 
make you silly, so that you would not understand that 
you were underground. 

We also went under the river which is in London 
and is called the Thames ; we left it above and passed 
underneath it, and came up the other side without 
knowing this, as we went in the train. When I asked 
Mr. Charles Millar, " Where is the River Thames ?" he said 
it was over our heads and we would see it when we got 
out of the train, as we should pass above it going back. 
When we got out from underground we climbed up 
the steps to see where we had come, and to understand 
the depth of the earth to the underground roads, and 
then we saw how the River Thames was above the tube ; 
the river was like an ocean in size. We then got into 
a carriage and crossed a bridge over the Thames, as 
we had passed under it just before, and we wondered 
very much at the work of the English, which is above 
praise. After this we went home, and our friend Mr. 
Charles Millar said good-bye to us, after he had taught 
us an English saying, " Buck up," the meaning of which 
is " Come back soon " ; we learned it on that day, and 
liked him very much. 

After we got back Captain Hobart took the Katikiro 
off to have dinner with him at half-past seven. Mr. 
Millar and I had dinner together before this, but the 
Katikiro did not eat with us, as he wished to leave a 
place in his inside for the dinner where he was going ; 



Service in St Paul's 67 

and when he came back he told us of the many kinds 
of nice things he had eaten. 

The next morning, Sunday, June I5th, Mr. Millar told 
us to get ready to go to the great church of St. Paul's, 
and we did as he told us, and Captain Hobart came to 
go with us. We went along the road called the Thames 
Embankment, which is near the River Thames, and 
he pointed out all the different houses on the way. We 
reached the church at the same time as a great many 
little boy soldiers (Church Lads' Brigade) ; there were 
about three hundred of them. An attendant, who had 
a staff of office, came outside to fetch us, and took us in 
and showed us our places, and then went back to his 
work. We were in seats near those of the great people, 
and not far from the Communion table. When the 
soldiers were about to enter they blew their bugles ; they 
blew so well that one would have liked to march with 
them. We were a long time waiting for the service 
to begin, and wondered at all we saw ; the church is 
covered with pictures of men, and of our Lord and the 
Virgin Mary, and of brave men who are buried there. 
The pulpit is very high ; there are a great many seats 
in the church, perhaps from 3,500 to 4,000, and they 
are all filled on Sundays. 

While we were waiting they began playing the great 
organ; we did not at first think it was an organ, as 
the sound was like the sound one hears in the sky 
when it is about to rain ; this organ thundered like 



68 llonifta'0 1<atiluro in nalant* 

that, and the scats we were on shook, and the ground 
shook. When the clergy entered they (.un< in a large 
procession of singers, little boys and young men and old 
mm, and sat in their appointed plac <> \vh-re no one else 
may sit. Each man had a lamp in front of him, for the 
church is rather dark owing to its size, and therefore 
they had many electric lights and gas lamps all over it, 
and also very long wax candles on the Communion table, 
but these were put there in accordance with the custom 
of the place if it were not for this custom the electric 
light would have been enough. When they played the 
organ all the singers and every one else joined in, and 
the whole place was filled with the sound of the voices 
and the sound of the organ. 

My friends, that organ is a wonderful thing ; it has iron 
things (pipes) which they put on the wall to increase the 
sound ; these iron things are like the stem of a green 
banana, and inside they put things that sound like a 
harmonium, and when they play the organ these things 
sound, each sounds from its own place, and the sound 
thus fills the building and reaches even those who are 
farthest away. The singers and every one else in every- 
thing they sing follow the organ, and in all the Psalms 
they follow the organ, and when they say " Amen " they 
follow the organ. I counted the singers near the organ : 
those with nice voices were twenty ; the old men with 
deep voices that give tone to the voices of the young 
were four in number. 



' Brisabe 6 9 

The building is several times larger than Namirembe 
Cathedral, and is all the one church of St. Paul. The 
preacher preached from Heb. iii. 17, and preached very 
well, in a loud voice, and spoke plainly, and not indis- 
tinctly like some others do. After service we returned 
home, and found the streets full of people who had come 
from other churches. The others went the way we 
had come, but Mr. Millar and I went along Fleet Street, 
and he showed me all the different places we passed. 

A short time after lunch we went out the Katikiro 
went with Captain Hobart, and I went with Mr. Millar 
to see the little soldier boys (Boys' Brigade), who had 
been collected from all over the country in their turn, as 
is the custom. We walked all the way there, a distance 
as far as from Mengo to Bulange (a mile and a half), 
and as we went I got a good look at the River Thames 
and saw what it was like ; it is like an arm of the lake 
in some parts, although it is only a river. 

After crossing a bridge we went along by the side 
of the river, and by the side of the hospital called St. 
Thomas's Hospital, and reached the house of the Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury ; and I saw a great many little 
English boys following me to see what a black man 
was like, and wanted to talk to them, but Mr. Millar told 
me not to, and so I left off and we went on ; perhaps 
there were as many as eighty looking at us. At last 
we reached the place where the boys were : they had 
put up an iron fence and inside had pitched their tents, 



70 TIl0attoa'0 Isatifetro in England 

and the people who had come to look at them had to 
remain outside the fence. One of the officers came 
and welcomed us and showed us the kitchen, and what 
the tents were like. The boys had a very nice b 
which played well. After we had seen these things 
they took us to Mr. MacConnell, the head of the camp, 
and we had tea with him. There were about two hundred 
boys ; the names of their officers were J. R. MacConnell, 
W. M. Alexander, and Mr. Parker, the Adjutant. After 
tea the head of the camp said to me, "If you would say 
a few words to us now we should be very pleased ; just 
say what you like " ; and I thought it would be well to 
do so and consented, and they blew the bugle, and some 
of the boys came quickly and stood up in a line, and I 
spoke thus : 

" My friends, I am very pleased to come here and to 
see what you are doing, but most of all I thank God for 
uniting us with you in spirit ; though there is a difference 
in our bodies, yet our hearts are one in the sight of God, 
who made us one in His Son, and I therefore thank Him 
for this. I want you to understand that had it not 
been for this, people would never have come. to such a 
distant country as ours, to tell the words of God; and 
so we are very pleased to come amongst you, just 
as if we had known you before, though this is only 
our first visit. If, however, you were to tell one of the 
heathen in our country that you would take him to 
England, it would be the same to him as saying you 



Gbe Hutbor'a Speecb to tbe Bo^s 71 

wished to kill him ; and therefore, my friends, I thank 
God for all that He has done for us, and may He in- 
crease His peace in this land and in our land, that there 
may be perfect peace. If God does this we shall all be 
pleased, and shall be able to visit one another just as 
we have now come over to visit you, both I and Apolo 
Katikiro, whom you would call the Prime Minister ; 
he is the greatest chief in our land and I am his secretary, 
and came over with him to write down all we saw. Well, 
may God be with you always." 

After I had said this the head of the camp spoke in 
the same way, because he was a true Christian. After 
this he sent for a cab to take us back quickly, because 
the people would have hindered us. He went with us 
a little way, and then we went back to the hotel and 
found Apolo had returned, and he told us how he had 
had tea with Captain Hobart's mother, and I told him all 
I had seen as I have described. 

The next day we went to buy some of the things we 
needed at the shop called " Army and Navy Stores," 
where there are a great many things, and whatever 
any man may want can be found there. We bought 
some note-books and writing-cases, and then went back 
and had our hair cut. 

At half -past one we went to see Sir H. H. Johnston, 
and he welcomed us very warmly ; we found there his 
wife and his younger brother, Captain and Mrs. Hobart, 
and Lady Johnston's mother. After lunch Sir H. H. 



7* Tllflanfra's 1\atihiro in 



Johnston took us to see the glass room in which he did 
his writing, in which wen- birds and other tilings, and 
many things that had come from Uganda. He showed 
us many kinds of animals he had got from other countries, 
and pictures of the different tribes through whom In 
passed, and made his phonograph sing for us ; it 
a Kinyamwezi song thus : " Fundula malole B\ 
Wiswe," which means, " Take off the spt from 

your eyes, O our master." The song is much longer 
than this, as the Wanyamwezi are greater singers than 
any of the peoples to the west of the lake. This phono- 
graph made us laugh a great deal. Sir H. H. Johnston 
also gave the Katikiro the book about our country 
which he wrote when he came to bring " mairo " into 
our land. 1 He wrote a great deal about Uganda, 
but we have not yet fully understood all he wrote, 
but have only seen the pictures. I have heard, how- 
ever, that he said that all the Baganda were short, and 
there were no tall men, but that the Katikiro is the 
only tall man in Uganda. This is not so. Perhaps he 
forgot ; I do not think he made this mistake on purpose, 
because there are a great many tall men. All our an- 
cestors were tall men, and at the present time there 
are many tall men. He has written a great deal in this 

1 Sir H. H. Johnston changed the whole system of land tenure in 
Uganda, and arranged that each chief should have a certain number 
of square miles as his freehold. A freehold plot of land is hence now 
called in Uganda a "maim.' 1 Under the old system all the land was 
held feudally from the King. 




Photo by C. H'. Haltersley. 

HIS HIGHNESS KABAKA DAUDI CHWA, KING OF UGANDA. 

\To face p. 72. 



Cbe "Zoo" 73 

book about how the people speak in different parts 
of the country, and has also printed some of the best 
songs of the Basese, who paddle our canoes, and has 
a picture of our King, Daudi Chwa, and pictures of some 
of the chiefs. 

After we had looked at this book he told us to come 
with him and see the wild animals, and we went with 
him and the others. We walked as far as the Zoo- 
logical Gardens, and saw a great many kinds of animals 
that we never see in our country. We first saw 
wild horses and wild cattle, and lions, and tigers which 
are the leopards of India and elephants, and hyenas, 
and giraffes, and chimpanzees. I cannot tell you the 
names of all the animals ; I can only tell you we saw sixty- 
three different kinds or more, beasts and birds and snakes 
and small creatures. It is difficult to find an animal 
that is not there. After this the superintendent of the 
gardens took us to his house to show it to us, and also 
to show us a picture of his father, who was the first 
superintendent ; he himself was a man sixty-five years 
of age, and had taken the place of his father in looking 
after the animals. 

They gave us some biscuits to give to the elephant, 
which took them out of our hands. We also threw pieces 
of biscuit into its mouth, and it ate them. It was wonder- 
fully tame and did what it was told, just like a man ; 
they told it to stand on a stone, and it did so ; and to 
put up its trunk, and it did so. We also played with 



74 THoanfra'e fcatifciro in England 

the chimpanzee ; its keeper was nursing it like a baby, 
and he told it to shake hands, and it shook hands like 
a man. We also saw wonderful snakes ; two boas from 
India were as large as the middle of a crocodile, and each 
eats a goat every day. I also saw a turtle as large as a 
pig, and a giraffe that was much taller than an elephant ; 
perhaps it was as much as 20 or 22 ft. high, and it 
was still young. We saw also a pelican thirty-eight 
years old, and another thirty-four years of age. 

A great many people come in to see these animals, 
perhaps as many as a hundred thousand every day ; 
I do not quite know, as one meets numbers of men, 
women, and children wherever one goes. Do not think 
they can just walk in not so at all ; they first have 
to pay something, and they can then go in and see the 
animals. There are always people coming to see them ; 
every day different people come. 

After this we came away with Sir H. H. Johnston 
and his younger brother, who knows a little Swahili. 
Sir H. H. Johnston himself knows it very well, and 
speaks it much better than many people. We next 
went to a place where they sell tea, and there Sir H. H. 
Johnston and his brother said good-bye to us and left 
us, as did also the superintendent. 

After tea we went home, and after our arrival Captain 
Hobart came to say he had an invitation for the Kati- 
kiro to go to the New Zealand dinner, and the Katikiro 
accepted it. 



letter from Hpolo IRatifciro 75 




fc 
* 



fr 








-* 



76 THiianfca'0 *atilttro in 



++ 




<9t4A. CL 
' SV4} 



~a& 

i*u- 
<? /' 

* a/fe, 

* 



translation of letter 77 



V> 




Translation of Letter from Apolo Katikiro to Rev. E. Millar. 

MENGO, UGANDA, June 2^th, 1904. 

To MR. MILLAR. 
MY DEAR FRIEND, 

Many thanks for your two letters about the death of 
Sir Henry Stanley. Many thanks for attending his funeral, 
and for telling me how honourable a burial he was given. 

I had your letter copied on my typewriter and sent it to all 
the chiefs, that they might read it and hear all about the 
funeral. 



78 Taoanfca'e Itatilwo in 



Things here are going on well. There were about ten 
t h< msand people present at the dedication of the cathedral ; we 
were a very large numl> 

When our friend Mr. (T. F. Victor) Buxton reached Uganda 
we welcomed him warmly, and I had tea ready for him on 
the way up from Munyonyo. I also gave a banquet to him 
and to our bishop there were thirty-seven Europeans and 
nine Baganda present, and we enjoyed ourselves very much. 

I send you the numbers of births and deaths. On the Sese 
Islands Muwambi (chief of Rome Island) is dead, and seven 
other chiefs have died, and a very large number of people are 
ill, and those who are still alive wish to leave the islands 
altogether. 

We told the Commissioner that the Sese Islanders wished 
to run away from their islands, and asked his advice ; and he 
told us that he would consider the matter and let us have 
his answer. 

Well, good-bye ; may God protect you. 

I am, 

(Signed) APOLO KATIKIRO. 

The following is a list of those who died in the month 
ending May 3ist, 1904 : 

Tever ........ 85 

Sleeping sickness ..... 862 

Plague ........ 37 

Small pox ....... 157 

Pneumonia ....... 50 

Internal disorders ..... 89 

Dysentery ....... 7 

Infantile diseases ..... 232 

Specific diseases ...... 25 

.Other illnesses ...... 356 



Written 
by the 

Katikiro's 
clerk. 



Children born 

This only is j" Well, good-bye, 
the Katikiro's J I am, 

own writing. [ (Signed) APOLO KATIKIRO. 



CHAPTER VI 

Interview with the Church Missionary Society The Bible House The 
Bishop of London's garden party Dinner with Mr. Herbert Samuel, 
M.P. A Board School "Ben Hur" The Hippodrome Lunch with 
Sir T. Fowell Buxton, G.C.M.G. The London Hospital Visit to 
Hampstead The Crystal Palace 

THE next day, June I7th, we went to see the rulers of 
the Church Missionary Society ; the Katikiro and the 
Rev. G. K. Baskerville went in one carriage, and I and 
Mr. Millar in another, and we reached the Church Mis- 
sionary House, where we were greeted by Prebendary 
Fox, the chief secretary, and our bishop, Bishop A. R. 
Tucker, who had come to the door to meet us. They 
escorted us in, and we found a great many ladies and 
gentlemen, about one hundred and fifty, who all stood 
up as we entered, in order to give us honour and welcome 
us warmly. All the Uganda people sat together, Bishop 
Tucker, the Revs. G. K. Baskerville and E. Millar, 
Dr. A. R. Cook, and ourselves, their Uganda pupils. 

After we had sat down we prayed to God, and the 
President, Sir John H. Kennaway, said a few words, 
and then asked the Katikiro to make a speech, and he 
and Mr. Millar (as interpreter) stood up. He spoke for 
a long time, and said how he had at first come to learn 

79 



1H0aiftA'9 1<atifmo in 

to read because Mr. Mackay and Mr. O'Flaherty gave 
him food ; but aftmvurds he went on learning because 
he saw that Christianity was a good thing, and so he no 
longer thought of the food. He said a great deal, and 
after he had finished Bishop Tucker, our bishop, spoke 
for some time, and told how the Katikiro had helped 
the Uganda Church ; he also spoke of my having written 
a commentary on St. Matthew's Gospel. After this 
Sir T. Powell Buxton said a little, and then the bishop 
prayed, and all was over. 

We then shook hands with many who were there, 
both men and women, and went to have some tea. 
After this they showed us the store from which books 
in all languages go out. We saw the room in which 
Namukade and Kataluba (the envoys sent over by 
Mutesa in 1878) had lived, and also saw the man who 
had looked after them. This room is now a store for 
Luganda books. 

(They then went to the Bible House, and saw the 
secretaries of the British and Foreign Bible Society.) 

They told us that every day eight thousand books 
are sent out, and go to all parts of the world ; and we 
saw old Greek books on parchment, from which they 
get the books we read now. We also saw Hebrew books 
made of skins. All these old books they put in glass 
boxes, so that people should not handle them ; but they 
can be seen quite well through the glass. We saw also a 
press for printing books for the blind, who cannot see 



Bisbop of 

at all ; and we all worked it to see how it printed, and 
the impressions which we ourselves took were given to 
us to take back to Uganda to show to our friends. We 
also saw the portraits of men long dead, who had done 
good work, and who are thus commemorated. After this 
we went home, Bishop Tucker and his wife escorting 
us as far as the door. 

After a short rest we went to see the Bishop of London, 
and there found a great many people, perhaps three or 
four thousand ; there were a great many carriages 
belonging to the visitors whom he had invited. We went 
through on to the lawn with the other visitors ; we two 
and an Indian were the only black people there. The 
Bishop of London is a very cheerful and kind man, and 
greeted us very warmly. We went all round his garden, 
and saw beds of flowers and of different kinds of vege- 
tables. After we had walked round and seen everything, 
we said good-bye and came home ; and after a short 
rest the Katikiro went with Captain Hobart to the 
New Zealand dinner, and Mr. Millar and I went to see 
a wonderful conjurer, who did some very clever tricks 
which quite puzzled me. 

He produced a boy out of a cloth, and a bear out 
of a piece of paper ; he got fire out of a cloth, and 
caught little fish in the air ; he also produced a large 
water-pot full of water out of the cloth, and lifted a man 
up without holding him, so that he remained lying down 
in space with nothing above or below him ; he shot at 

6 



82 TIlanfca'0 l<atlluro in 



a lamp on one table and it appeared on another, and 
did also a great many other things. When we got home 
we told the K.itikiro what we had seen, and he told us 
about the New Zealand dinner. 

The next morning Captain Hobart took the Katikiro 
to Ascot, the place where the horses race, and Mr. Millar 
and I went to a great many shops. I saw a wonderful 
house where people store their money (National Safe 
Deposit Company), which has been very cleverly built 
of extremely hard steel ; it is built with two circular 
walls which are extremely strong, one of stone, the 
other of burnt brick. The doors are very strong, and 
as thick as a hand's breadth, and close by themselves, 
and no man is able to open them, or to cut through the 
circular wall of stone or of burnt bricks, which are very 
hard. Policemen walk about all the time round the 
walls ; there is water above and below to protect the 
place from fire, and this water is like a lake in volume, 
and is all round the building. Inside there are many 
holes, in each of which is a box, where every man who 
wishes to do so can keep his money, and every one who 
keeps his money in this house has many private signs 
given him, so that no one else may take his place, and by 
his cleverness steal his money. 

After this we returned home, and after a rest we went 
to see Mr. Herbert Samuel, who spent a short time in 
Uganda, and gave the King a toy steamer, that went 
on the water just like a real steamer. He also took 



IDteit to flDr. Iberbert Samuel, flXp. 83 

many photographs of our country, and of different kinds 
of people, peasants and chiefs, and of the King and of 
the old kind of houses which are being done away with 
at the present time, and of our different styles of clothing ; 
all these things Mr. Herbert Samuel did when he was in 
our country. When we reached his house we found 
he had asked a great many people to meet us ; in all 
there were twelve of us. The Uganda party consisted 
of the Katikiro, the Revs. E. C. Gordon and E. Millar, 
and I, Ham Mukasa. After dinner he showed us a great 
many photographs from Uganda and the neighbouring 
countries. 

The next morning, June igth, they took the Katikiro 
(on Lord Onslow's motor-car) to see the statue of King 
Albert and of those who were great men in his time 
(Albert Memorial) ; this is not the Albert who is king at 
present, but one of a long time ago. The Katikiro told 
me this when he got back, and I wrote it down. 

After this we went to have lunch with Dr. B. W. 
Walker, the brother of Archdeacon Walker the friend 
of Ham Mukasa, and he cooked a fine luncheon to 
welcome us, and took us all over his house to show us 
what it was like : we noticed that the kitchen was on 
the lowest floor. We sat down ten to lunch, Dr. B .W. 
Walker, the Revs. E. C. Gordon and E. Millar, Apolo 
Katikiro, two other men and three ladies, and Ham 
Mukasa. 

Later on we went to see over a children's school, and 



84 Ifloanfra's icatihiro in 



\vhrn we arrived they took us all over it, and showed 
us how they were taught many different kinds of wisdom. 
They are first taught to read and to do arithmetic, to do 
carpenters' work and to swim, to jump and to run, and 
to cook like ladies and married people, to keep the house 
in order, to wash clothes, to make the beds properly, 
and to wash up everything that requires washing when 
it is dirty ; to sweep out the house, and to do every 
kind of work that people must learn to do for th< m- 
selves. Every kind of work necessary for men and 
women is taught there, so that when they grow up 
they know all about it, and can choose whatever 
occupation they wish, and the work which one leaves 
another can do, as he knows about every kind of work. 
They teach them from three or four years old for 
seven years ; others are taught till they are fifteen ; the 
children of rich parents are taught everything. We went 
there at twelve (2 p.m. really), and came away at a quarter 
to six, and they gave us samples of the carpenters' work 
that they do, and we took them home with us. There 
were a great many children in that school ; we saw from 
three to four hundred. When they saw that we were 
going away a great many of the little ones came to see 
us off, and wanted very much to have a good look at us. 
I wished to speak to them, as about eighty of them were 
following behind, and rolled up my coat-sleeve to show 
them what my arm was like, because many of them 
wanted to see it, and they came closer and each child 



"Ben "four" 85 

wanted to shake hands with me, because they were so 
pleased. Some were at first afraid, but when they saw 
their companions talking English to me they too came 
close up, and I played with them and picked them up 
with one hand, and so on. When they saw we were going 
they all came to say good-bye, but Mr. Millar said, 
" Leave them alone, there are too many of them," and 
so we got into our carriages and went home, wondering 
as we went at the houses and carriages like locusts in 
number. 

After dinner we went to see a game (" Ben Hur ") in a 
place called Drevy Len Banker (Drury Lane Theatre), and 
we saw how they dressed up in a great many different 
ways. They first dressed themselves up like the wise 
men from the East, following the star to seek for our 
Lord ; after this they brought on the city of Jerusalem, 
and the priests dressed in their proper costumes ; after 
this they imitated the way the Romans used to row their 
boats when they ruled the world and attacked the city 
of Jerusalem, and crossed the sea to get there and fight 
against it. After this they imitated Judah the Jew 
and the men who rebelled with him. After this they 
brought on the spirit the Romans worshipped, Apollo 
by name, and their marriage customs, and the way they 
went to their weddings ; and they brought on a wicked 
woman, who enticed away the man she had set her 
heart on, and took him off in a boat to her place. They 
next brought on horses that race4 in chariots, and 



86 1fl(jairta'0 fcattfUro in 

they showed the healing of some lepers by our 



Lord. 

The people who were there were perhaps as many 
as six hundred ; it was a very large house, and they h.id 
put in it shelves for all the sight-seers to sit on, and 
these were from the bottom to the top of the house, 
and there was a great space left for the people to 
play in. 

They made the place like the ancient Romans used 
to make their amphitheatres, in which they saw 
beasts fight with prisoners, and this is the way tin A- 
make all their places of amusement ; they sang also the 
songs of Apollo, the god of the Romans, just as they 
used to sing them when they were still heathen ; they 
collected a great many children and women and men, 
and these sang as the people used to sing. 

The next day, June 2oth, at half-past nine in the 
morning, the Rev. J. Roscoe and Mr. Millar's sister 
came to see us. Mr. Millar's sister came with her little 
girl, who very quickly drew us a pencil-sketch of a horse, 
and we were pleased to see the way the English teach 
their little children. We also went with the Rev. E. C. 
Gordon to Dr. Oppenshaw to look for a boot for my 
bad leg, and we met Dr. Walker there, and they told 
me to speak into a thing called in English a telephone, 
and I spoke to another man four and a half miles away. 
Then Dr. Walker left us, and we went with Mr. Gordon 
to the manufacturer of (surgical) boots to see if he 



Ifoippofcrome 87 

could find a boot for my bad leg, but he could not find 
one of the kind I required in his stock, and promised 
to give me an iron thing that would make my legs of 
equal length, and then to make a boot for me. 

After lunch we went to see a most marvellous per- 
formance in a place called " The London Hippodrome," 
but it is difficult to tell you about the things we saw 
there, because if you tell a clever man about these things, 
in his stupidity he thinks you are not speaking the 
truth at all ; however, I will try to tell you, as well as 
I can, what we saw. First, there was a woman in a 
carriage drawn by a horse all spotted like a leopard, 
which was called in their language Leopard Horse (Leo- 
pard was the name of the horse). This horse marched 
along with its carriage just like soldiers march to a band, 
and the band played and the bugles blew and the flutes 
played a tune for it to march to. Then there was a dog 
that walked round between the horse's legs, as it was 
walking, and neither of them made a mistake as it passed 
in and out just like a man who had sense, and we were 
very surprised at the way they had been taught. 

After this came a man who played at catching bullets 
nearly as large as a football, a wonderful man ; he also 
picked up a man and put him on his hand, and the other 
man stiffened himself and he lifted him right up with 
only one hand. After this came a man who played 
with his feet with very large barrels, lying on his 
back on a couch ; after this he brought three things 



'0 itatihiro in 

as large as drums and put tin in cue on the top of the 
other, although they were not flat, and kept them together 
by his skill, and played with them with his feet, and 
they did not fall, although they were round. After this 
he lifted up seven dogs on a piece of wood that was like 
a stick with seven branches, and had a dog sitting on 
each branch ; he lifted these up on his head and they 
did not fall. 

After this they brought on some boys and girls, each 
on a single bicycle wheel, without anything to hold on 
to in front, like other bicycles. One of them picked 
up a boy of about twelve years of age and held him up 
with one hand as he was riding, and we were amazed 
at his skill ; and then the boy put one hand on the 
other's head and pointed his feet to the roof, while the 
other rode the bicycle round. After this the rider took 
his bicycle to pieces as he rode it, and remained 
with one wheel only, as when he first came on ; 
in the same way he put it together again as he was 
going. After this they brought on an elephant and 
gave it a big drum, and it played it just like a man ; and 
they gave it a gun and gave the words of command, and 
it drilled just like a man, and put its gun wherever it 
was told to ; and they ordered it to fire, and it fired 
just like a man. 

Some elephants also put a man on a couch just as if 
he were ill, and carried him where they were told ; one 
of them was told to fetch the medicine off the table, 



a Clever JElepbant 8 9 

and it did so, and gave it him to drink ; and the sick man 
told it to bring a candle, and it did so ; and he told 
it to light the candle, and it fetched the matches, and 
struck them, and lit the candle. It also lay right down 
on the ground with the man underneath, and stretched 
itself out on him ; it also stood on a wooden chair, with 
all its four legs together, and got down when it was 
told. It always did as it was told ; it wiped the per- 
spiration off the man's face, and fanned him because 
he was hot, and blew out the candle, and made a fool 
of itself, as if it was mocking at people who talk into 
the telephone it put the receiver to its ear just as 
people do who speak to one another through the telephone ; 
it also played the cymbals very nicely, just like a man. 
After this they told it to trumpet, and it did so. 

Then they brought on a great deal of water, just like 
a large pond ; the water came out of the ground, and we 
could not see where it came from, and it became a great 
lake ; and they made a bridge and brought on to it horses 
and a carriage with people in it, and fired off a great 
many guns, imitating a war, and the horses and carriage 
fell into the water with all the people and they swam 
ashore ; and we wondered very much at all this, which 
was hard to understand. After this Mr. Herbert Samuel 
(who had taken them to the Hippodrome) took us to 
a traveller's house, and bought us some tea, and intro- 
duced us to his wife, and showed us a photograph of his 
child. We went home at 4.10 p.m., and afterwards 



90 lloanfca's Itatiltiro in England 

Bishop Hanlon came to see us and stayed till five 
o'clock. 

The next day we went to have our photographs taken, 
and when we came back we rested for a short time, and 
then went to see our friend, Sir T. Powell Buxton, G.C.M.G. 
When we got there we found Bishop Tucker and another 
bishop who had been in Australia, and who was called 
Bishop Montgomery. He was a very kind man indeed, 
and made great friends with me, and said, " I want 
you to stay in England ; you can go back later on " ; and 
I refused, saying, "That is difficult, sir"; because, though 
he said this, he only said it jestingly in his kindness, 
as he knew I could not stop behind. We had a very 
nice dinner ; they had made a fine feast to welcome 
us, and we were fourteen at table. 

After dinner Sir Powell Buxton took us to see a hos- 
pital, called James's Hospital (London Hospital), and 
we got into his carriage and said good-bye to our bishop 
and all our friends, and went away, looking as we went 
at that part of the town through which we travelled. 
We crossed the River Thames on a bridge supported 
by chains, and went a long way round and saw many 
places and roads (following the route of the coronation 
procession and over London Bridge), and at last reached 
the hospital called James's Hospital. They took 
us round a great many places in the hospital. The 
ladies who do the work, and who are called sisters, 
first took us round, and afterwards the chief doctor 



Xonfcon Ibospital 9 1 

came and showed us a great many things ; some rooms 
were upstairs and some downstairs. 

After this they showed us a thing that reveals an 
invisible disease. They brought a boy with his clothes 
on, and we could see all his bones ; and we put up our 
hands, and could see the bones of our hands. They 
showed us a picture of a man who had been shot long 
ago, and the bullet remained in the leg, and they made 
the leg transparent and took the bullet out. We saw 
also photographs of the palms of the hands of people 
who had got needles stuck in them, and they made them 
transparent and took the needles out ; there were many 
of these. This machine works by electricity. They have 
a glass "through which the power of the electricity that 
is, its light passes, and shows you everything that is 
in your body ; but it is hard to understand it one 
can only marvel at it. 

After this they took us to write our names in the 
visitors' book ; we all wrote them, and any one who goes 
there may see them, because they are put away there. 
They then gave us tea, and then Apolo Katikiro said, 
" I beg that you nurses will come to our country and 
help in our hospitals ; because the nurses are few, and 
the sick many " ; and they replied, " That is true, 
we might come, but here we are not without work ; you 
have spoken very nicely, but even here the sick are 
many in this hospital, and those with broken legs are 
many, who have had their legs broken by carriages 



in 

or by powerful machinery." I noticed tin- < -hairs lik 
i amazes that takr about tin- sick; tlu-y are like beds, 
and have on them things that hold books for those sick 
people to read who have no strength in their hands. 

We then went downstairs, and they said good-bye 
to us, and we got into Sir Powell Buxton's carriage and 
went through other streets to the carriage which the 
Government had lent us. When we got to it, we said 
good-bye to Sir Powell Buxton and he went home, and 
we went to visit Mr. Millar's brother at Hampstead, 
and arrived at 6.30 p.m., and found him waiting for us. 
He welcomed us into his house, and we found there our 
friend the Rev. G. K. Baskerville and other friends of 
Mr. Millar's, who had come to greet us for his sake, and 
we sat down and talked for a long time very happily. 

He is a very kind man, and has brought up all his 
little children very nicely, and their mother is as kind 
as their father ; I used to call her my mother, in their 
language " mother," because she was so kind. Mr. 
H. E. Millar took us up and showed us where we were 
to sleep, and we then came downstairs and had dinner, 
to which Mr. Baskerville stopped ; and we went on 
talking with our friends about everything we wanted ; 
and Mr. Millar showed us a great many photographs 
of people in our country. 

The next day, June 22nd, was Sunday, and we went 
to church. We all prayed in English, and there was 
no difference between us all in language, but only in 



at Church 93 

our bodies, although we could not understand all the 
service. There was a very fine organ there, which had 
a beautiful tone they have tubes that look like banana 
stems, and put them on the organ, and when they play 
it the air that comes out makes these things sound, and 
increases the music, so that all the people can follow 
it ; and therefore in every church in England they have 
organs like this. 

When we came out of the church a great number of 
persons both small and great, who were not accustomed 
to black people, came to look at us as we were going home. 
After reaching home we rested a short time, and then 
went to see Mr. Baskerville and his father and mother 
and brothers and sisters, and had tea there and then 
returned. In the evening we went to a service for 
young people, and there they showed us what the organ 
was like ; it was a very large one ; any one, whether 
big or little, could get inside it, it was so large. The 
Katikiro and I went inside and saw a great many things 
there which the makers in their wisdom had contrived. 

We saw also how orphans are looked after. They 
are collected into one house and have guardians ap- 
pointed to look after them ; boys are looked after by 
men, and girls by women, and they are all dressed alike ; 
the girls have blue dresses and white hats ; any one 
dressed differently is one of their guardians. We also 
saw a number of ladies who were being trained to go out 
as missionaries ; and when they showed them to us, 



94 IHgatrta'0 fcatihlro in 

the Katikiro said, " We want you all to come to our 
country of Uganda " ; and they replied, " We cannot 
go where we ourselves would like, but where our leaders 
send us " ; and we replied, " That is so you cannot do 
as you like ; but we want you very much indeed." After 
this we went back to the house in which we were stopping. 

The next day, June 23rd, we went back into London 
at half-past ten, and after a short rest went to see the 
glass house (Crystal Palace), where they keep only the 
most beautiful things. There are figures of all the 
kings, and many great men and brave generals, like 
Sir Lord Roberts, who conquered the Transvaal at the 
Cape. There are also copies of all the things made in 
their land ; they pick out one thing, and put it there 
to show people how things are made in different places 
to which they cannot go themselves. We saw there 
live fish, and birds of all kinds. They chisel out stones 
and make them just like people, and put them there 
to remind people in after years what they were like. 
There were a number of statues of the kings from early 
times right down to the Queen (Victoria) and Edward VII., 
and of generals who had won great wars right down 
to Sir Lord General Roberts, who conquered the Boers 
while the Queen was still reigning. There is a statue 
in stone representing him on a horse ; one wants to salute 
it and say, " Good morning, Roberts," though really it 
can neither see nor hear. 

We saw how they bore gun-barrels, and saw also a 



Crystal palace 95 

slide for canoes in the game they play with them (water- 
chute). They make a large pond on a hill, and they 
make a slide of boards, which the canoes run down to 
get into the water below. They rush down very fast ; 
a giddy person could not endure it. We saw also a great 
many people who had come to enjoy themselves, and there 
were many amusements, players on flutes, organs, and 
banjos, and many other instruments. We saw a very 
tall tower from which one can get a distant view over 
the city ; perhaps you could see twenty or twenty-five 
miles that is, as far or farther than Entebbe. The tower 
is four or five times as high as Namirembe Cathedral, 
because when you are at the top men below look like 
little children. We saw also large and small fish, and 
fish of all kinds in glass boxes, into which they pour 
water, and in which the fish live ; when you look at them 
you would not think there was any glass there, as you 
can see them playing. When we saw all this we were 
amazed at the care of the English, who can feed un- 
f eedable things like fish and keep them alive many years 
in their little lakes. The English are a wonderful people. 
We also saw how they dig for gold. They had a model 
showing how gold was dug out. Some of the figures 
were on the top of the hill, and some were down under- 
ground digging, and they had iron baskets and chains, 
and there were pulleys, and the chains drew the baskets 
up and let them down ; some men were cutting out the 
earth, whilst others were collecting what was dug out 



96 THoairta'e fcatihtro in 



and putting it in baskets, and the pulleys were taking 
it up to the surface, and the men on the top were doing 
tlu-ir work with it. When you see things like this you 
wonder very much. It is difficult to tell you about 
them, and even those who make them cannot explain 
the matter properly, for you cannot fully understand 
their explanations. 

There was also in that building a woman who showed 
us a machine for sweeping up the rubbish in a house, 
and wanted us to buy one, and we thanked her 
showing it us ; but our friend Mr. Millar made us 
laugh very much, because he thanked her in Luganda, 
and said, " Webale kulika nyabo " ("Thank you, I con- 
gratulate you on it "), and we laughed very much, 
because he did not understand he had made a mistake ; 
and when he saw I was laughing at him, he said, 
*' What are you laughing at, Ham ?" and I said, " Be- 
cause you thanked that lady in Luganda, and she did 
not understand what you said ; what will she think ? " 
and he said, " I forgot." And this was true, because 
usually among other English people he spoke English ; 
but on this occasion he forgot that English people were 
not Baganda, because he had learned Luganda so well 
that it had become a part of himself. 

We left at five o'clock in the evening, after having 
been there about an hour and a half. The building 
in which we saw these things was called the Crystal 
Palace. 



CHAPTER VII 

Sad news, the King's illness The Tower of London The Tower Bridge 
Colonel Wallis and the Colonial troops Fire brigade display Indian 
and African soldiers at the Alexandra Palace Visit to Captain Hobart 
at Southampton The British Fleet The Katikiro has fever Review 
of the Indian troops by H.M. the Queen and H.R.H. the Prince of 
Wales 

THE next day, June 24th, they came to take the Katikiro 
to go and see the King ; but as we were waiting they told 
us that the King was ill, and then again that he had 
had an operation, and our hearts were very sad on account 
of the King's illness, because the life of the King is of 
great value, since he rules over so many people, and 
therefore his illness filled all hearts with sorrow. 

When the visitors received the news they all went 
to write their names in the King's book to show their 
sympathy. There were a great many people who had 
come from all lands who went to do this, kings and princes 
and great men from the lands ruled over by the English, 
and from lands that are merely on friendly terms with 
them. Our chief went also he went with Captain 
Hobart, because only the leading men were called thither 
and when he came back he told me all he had seen. 

On this day also we went to visit Said Ali, the prince 

97 7 



98 Tfloantm'e Itatihiro in 

of Zanzibar, who is now kin^, having succeeded his 
father, who died during his son's stay in England. Four 
relatives of Archdeacon Walker also came to see us, and 
in the evening we went to see the wonderful conjurer 
about whom I told you before ; Apolo did not go the 
first time, so we went again, that he too might see with 
his own eyes. If one sees the wonders of England by 
oneself, and then tells others, one is disbelieved for 
lack of a second witness, like Mika Sematimba, 1 who 
was not believed since he was all by himself when in 
England. 

The next day, June 25th, we went to see a doctor, 
because the Katikiro was not feeling well. He went 
with Mr. Millar and me, so that we were just the party 
that had left Uganda together. 

After lunch Captain Hobart came and took us of! to 
the fort of the kings of England from old days, which 
is called the ** Tower," and when we arrived there 
we saw many relics of all kinds from the time of 
their ancestors, old spears and swords, and knives and 
cannon, and guns with slow matches and flints and 
caps, and ancient clothing of iron, and helmets of old 
time, and fire-baskets, and the old rooms in which the 
ancient kings slept, and their old dining halls, and the 
guard-rooms of the old soldiers, and the old prison cells 
without doorways, and with windows so small one could 
not get one's hand through them some had no windows 

1 He came to England in 1892. 



ovoer 99 

at all and the old staircases that twist round, and the 
passages in the houses. We saw also the ancient kings, 
and the way in which they were dressed ; and they showed 
us all the good kings and all the bad kings, each king 
and the way he ruled. We saw also the place where 
the king called Charles I. was beheaded, because he 
would not listen to his nobles ; we saw also slaughter- 
places, where the common people were killed ; we saw 
also the ancient church, where all the nobles who were 
beheaded for treason were buried. They had put up 
a brass board on the wall of the church, and on it had 
written their names and their crimes and the year in 
which they rebelled ; their graves are under the floor ; 
if you look on the ground you see the inscriptions on 
each grave and can read them. 

We also saw the axe and sword that cut off the head 
of their king, and the different kinds of fetters in which 
criminals were fastened ; these fetters fastened the hands 
and feet and head together. We were also shown how 
they fastened their women to strong trees and stretched 
them like a cow-skin is stretched, and the trees tore 
them in half. We saw also the bell that used to be 
tolled in old days when they were going to kill a man. 
But in all lands the ancient people were very evil in- 
deed in their customs, to torture people thus cruelly. 
We climbed to the top of the Tower, and looked out 
over the whole city and the River Thames, and saw 
many houses, and many ships on the Thames. We 



ioo Ulaitfn's? Ikntilwo w 



saw also a most wonderful tiling. They have made 
a bridge across this Km i Tli.mu-. ulm h flows through 
the middle of the city of London, and this bridge is made 
of iron, and they put on it great hinges, so great tl 
can compare them to nothing in our country; the width 
of the bridge is as wide as the Kntebbe Road near Muwanga 
the blacksmith's (40 ft.), or perhaps wider. Captain 
Hobart told the men who look after it to show us how 
it went up when ships wanted to pass, and they pulled 
over the levers that lifted it, and it came in half. 
one half went up on one side and one half on the other, 
and the ships went through with their masts ; and after 
they had passed, the bridge came back and joined itself 
up, and the carriages and foot-passengers passed over 
it just like you pass over a bridge that cannot be raised, 
or that does not move. It is a very large bridge, as long 
as from the King's gate to that of the Katikiro (ioo yds). 
We passed over it in our carriage and went to the 
place where they make things for African travellers 
tents, and chairs, and tables, and flags, and ropes for 
boats, and small tents for servants on the march and 
for soldiers. We saw there many women, both old 
and young, all sewing tents by hand, and we thought 
they were very industrious and very strong to sew 
such hard cloth, although they were women. They 
were making tents, and bags for tents and bedsteads ; 
we had always thought that men made the tents, though 
it was really women. But, my friends, you ought to be 



Sower Brifcge 101 

struck with that wonderful bridge that goes up by itself 
as you have heard ; such a breadth and length is a mar- 
vellous thing. It is called the " Tower Bridge." 

After we had been to the top of this factory of which 
you have heard ; and had seen the city and the trains 
which were close at hand, we went home with Captain 
Hobart, because Mr. Millar had not come with us, as 
he had gone to a meeting to pray for the King. When 
he came back he asked us what we had seen, and we 
told him everything as -I have described it here, and he 
told us about his journey ; we were also told that the 
King would take about three months to recover fully, 
and that on account of his illness the coronation was 
put off. The Rev. H. Clayton also came to see us on 
this day, and arranged with Mr. Millar to take us back 
to Uganda, because he wanted to stay in England to 
rest. We were very pleased, because Mr. Clayton is a 
nice man, and we like him very much, and we hoped 
he would explain all our difficulties, because he is a 
very clever man. 1 

The next morning, June 26th, Captain Hobart took 
us to see some soldiers who fight on horseback ; we 
drove to the railway station, and went by train, and 
when we arrived, we found the chief of the soldiers 
had brought us a two-horse carriage. He made two 
soldiers ride in front of us, while he himself rode 

1 This arrangement was not carried out : Mr Millar went back 
with them. 



11tfant>a'0 "katihiro in 

at the side of the carriage, and gave us very great 
honour ; his name was Colonel Wallis. When we 
arrived at his encampment he showed us many 
things of different kinds belonging to the soldiers. 
He first showed us how the horses were fastened up, 
and the doctor's house and all his things, and the 
soldiers' kitchen, and what their tents were like inside, 
and their uniforms. He also made them mount their 
horses to show how they fought, and they all mounted, 
officers and all, and went through their drill, and fired 
a great many guns, just as they would do in a real war ; 
there were about two hundred and fifty horses in all. 
He showed us how the horses are taught not to be 
afraid of the firing, and to retire when commanded 
to. After this we were photographed with four of the 
officers ; and after lunch we went home, being escorted 
on our way by Colonel Wallis and some other officers, 
who treated us with great honour. 

The next day, June a/th, we went to see a fire brigade 
display, and saw there a Chinese prince, the heir to the 
throne, who also had come to see how they put out 
fires. We saw all the different kinds of apparatus 
ladders that joined themselves together, horses that 
galloped very fast when going to extinguish a fire, and 
squirts that sent water right up to the tops of the houses. 
They put a pipe into a pit in which water is stored up, 
and turned a tap, and the water rushed out to a great 
height. They showed us how they climb up the houses 



Colonial Groops 103 

to get people out who are kept in by the fire, and how 
they get them out when they are senseless and bring 
them to the ground. We saw also a steam fire-engine 
that went along the ground like a train, and also how 
people jump from the second or third stories into a 
sheet, which is stretched out below. We also saw where 
they make these fire-engines ; and the telegraph that 
calls them to put out fires ; we were also shown a map 
of the district over which they put out fires the size 
of it is forty square miles. We saw the helmets of 
those who had died in putting out fires, and we were 
told there were eighty fire-stations in London. 

In the afternoon we went to see the soldiers who had 
come from all lands ; all kinds of Africans to the number 
of four hundred Soudanese, Swahilis, Baganda, Kavi- 
rondo people, Abyssinians, Masai and other nations from 
Asia ; Chinese, Indians, and a great many other tribes 
we saw there. We saw also English people like locusts 
in numbers who had come to see what black people were 
like, for all kinds of people were there in this place called 
" Alexandra Palace." There was a very large building 
there which was full of people ; if one were to fall down 
he would be trodden to death. This was about seven 
miles away, but it is in a part of London. 

The next day, June 28th, we left London, and Captain 
Hobart took us to his place in the country to see the 
King's Fleet, which had come together for the coronation. 
We went by train, and as we went we admired the 



104 Tfloattfa's Itatthiro in 



country ; we passed forests of trees that had been planted, 
and houses of rich and poor in the country just as 
we have. We passed also Sir Henry Stanley's estate, 
in which were lakes that he had dug out, which had 
many tame white birds on them ; and at last reached a 
town called Southampton, which is on the sea and has 
a very large harbour. There were a great many very 
large ships there some would take five thousand men 
on board ; altogether there were about three thousand 
ships or more I could not tell the exact number. We 
went over two large ones and were very tired, as the 
captain took us into every part of them. After going 
all over the harbour we got into a little steamer which 
took us to the other side, where Captain Hobart lived. 
We landed at the end of a very long pier made of 
boards, about as long as from Munyonyo to Bulinguge 
(one mile), and walked down it to the shore, where we 
found Captain Hobart's carriage, which took us to 
his house. Every one in those parts gives him great 
honour, because his father is a very great man, and 
is honoured by many people. Captain Hobart's house 
is a very beautiful one indeed ; we had tea there, 
and then he took us all round his garden with his wife 
and his steward, and showed us all his vegetables and 
flowers, and showed us also where his horses live, a very 
nice house which we at first thought was his church ; 
but when we got into it we saw our mistake, though 
from the outside it looks like a country church. He 



Gbe fleet 105 

had six horses and three carriages. We then saw his 
landing-place, which is at the side of his grounds, and 
returned to the house, and he showed us our rooms, 
which were on the second floor. 

At eight o'clock he called us to see the lights of South- 
ampton, which were like stars or comets. These lights 
can be seen five miles away. After looking at these 
lights we got very chilly, and went to bed. When one 
hears the ships trumpeting any one who knows how 
cows bellow that have been raided in war would under- 
stand when I say they bellowed like that, though I only 
compare them to cows on account of the numbers the 
noise they make is far greater, greater even than the 
trumpeting of an elephant ; they go on all night, 
coming in and going out, and never leave off their noise ; 
the ships trumpet as they come in and trumpet as they 
go out, and you hear a great noise all the time with the 
large ships and the small ships, and the moaning of the 
sea and the noise made by the screws of the ships as 
they go by. 

The next day, June 2Qth, we went with Captain 
Hobart to see the fleet and the men-of-war that had 
come for the coronation, and were going away again 
on account of the King's illness. We went in a very 
small steamer perhaps it was twice as big as our Uganda 
steamer the William Mackinnon and saw a great number 
of vessels, which had been arranged in lines of a hundred 
in each line. We passed between them, and were amazed 



in 

at them ; there were in all about six hundred. We saw 
many of the guns they carried ; some had twenty, 
some fifteen, others ten, others eight ; they were very 
long indeed, and could carry a distance of fifteen miles, 
some ten miles, others eight or seven. Is it not an 
amazing thing that one could fire a gun from Entebbe 
and the shot would fall in Mengo ? When the sailors 
play on the bugles and flutes and violins and cymbals 
and drums one would want to have four ears to hear 
better, and four eyes to see better. 

We also saw the King's palace called Osborne in 
which the Queen died, which is on the island called 
Wight ; her son has now given it to the country, and 
any one who likes can go there and sleep in it. We were 
amazed at the sea in this place, because it twists about 
like the Victoria Nyanza does round Busi. We also 
went to see the river in which they used to build ships ; 
there is a forest near at hand which is called the New 
Forest, in which they used to cut the timber for their 
boats in old days ; but when we got to the river our 
steamer got mixed up in the rubbish, and we were delayed 
about fifty minutes. After this we landed some of our 
passengers and went back to the starting-point ; and as 
we went we looked again at the ships, though these 
were only the ships at one place, Portsmouth, which is 
near Southampton, and is not such a big place as other 
larger harbours. We then went home, and found it 
very cold though there was no rain. After we had 



Diatt to Xorb flDonta$ue 107 

rested a while, we went to visit our friend Mr. C. Z. W. 
Fitzgerald, who cooked a very nice meal for us, and also 
gave us some presents ; the Katikiro he gave a thing 
for counting the days, and me he gave a china cup with 
a picture on it of the King and his Queen, which had 
been made to celebrate the coronation. Mrs. Fitzgerald 
is a German, but very kind ; one would not think she 
was born in Germany, because the Germans are not at 
all kind there are a few kind ones, but they are hard 
to find, for the many we saw were all ruffianly ; but 
this lady was not like them except in her accent ; she 
played for us on the piano, and showed us how they put 
pretty things on the walls from all lands and of all kinds 
to rejoice the eyes. After seeing her we went home. 

The next day, June 30th, we went to see our friend Lord 
Montague, and drove there in Captain Hobart's carriage, 
a distance of seven miles. On our arrival he welcomed 
us and showed us all over his house and garden, and 
showed us also his artificial lake. He showed us the 
house that used to belong to the monks his own house 
had been the chapel of the monks in old days, but the 
king had given it to him, and he had made it into his 
house, and now it is six hundred years old ; the present 
church used to be the dining-hall of the monks, and 
had been made into a church. He also showed us the 
site of the ancient abbey of the monks ; the ground plan 
can be seen, and is like that of Namirembe Cathedral. 

After seeing all round his grounds we went back to 



io8 THoatrta'e "fcattfoiro in 



Captain Hobart's by another road through the forest, 
and saw a great many trees that had been planted there ; 
some of them were very fine and tall. When any one 
cuts down a tree he has to plant two or three others 
in its place. 

The Katikiro was very ill with fever on this day, and 
ate nothing for lunch or dinner, and though he took 
medicine four times during the day he did not get any 
better ; and so Captain Hobart took me instead of him 
to see his father, and I went all ever the house and saw 
many curiosities that his son had brought from our 
country guns, and shields, and spears, and arrows, and 
harps, and horns, and skins. He also showed me an old 
chest for storing money, made in 200 A.D., and told me 
that his house was a hundred and fifty years old, and 
showed me where his cows slept in winter; in the 
summer all English cows sleep outside, as do the 
horses of some of the country people. He was very 
sorry that the Katikiro could not come, and his wife 
sent him a photograph of the house so that he could 
see what it was like, even though he had not been there 
himself. When we got home we found the Katikiro was 
worse, and so we gave him more medicine, and he got 
a little better, though he did not recover properly. 

The next day, July ist, after breakfast we left Captain 
Hobart's house in Hampshire, and crossed by the steamer 
to the other side, where we found the chief of the place 
waiting for us, and he took us all over the harbour and 



IRevnew of tbe Jnbian droops 109 

showed us the ships that bring the soldiers from India, 
and we saw how large they were. We saw all over 
one of them, which had in it stables for the horses, 
kitchens, and hospitals for men and women. After 
this we left Southampton and soon arrived in London, 
where we found Mr. Millar awaiting us at the railway 
station. He congratulated us on our safe arrival, and 
we told him how ill the Katikiro was, and then we 
went home, and did not go out again on account of 
the Katikiro's illness. 

The next day, July 2nd, was a great day, because 
the King had sent in his place his eldest son, George, 
the Prince of Wales, with the Queen, to review the 
Indian troops, since he himself could not review them 
on account of his illness. There were about a thou- 
sand soldiers, all Indians, with perhaps sixty English 
officers in charge of them. They had large bands with 
cymbals and bugles, and it was a wonderful sight ; many 
men from many nations had come together to see these 
Indians and the Queen and the Prince of Wales. There 
were Germans, French, Spaniards, Italians, Japanese, 
Moors, Abyssinians, Egyptians, Chinese, Danes, and 
many other peoples, and they all sat on a frame-work 
of boards that had been put up. Perhaps there were 
a hundred thousand people there, without counting 
those who were standing in the roads, waiting to see 
the Queen and the Prince of Wales ; perhaps in all there 
were one hundred million (!) including those in the roads 



no Uittnfca's Icatilwo in 



and oo the staging and on the roofs of the houses 
I am not sure of the actual number ; they were like ants 
on a journey. The Queen and the Prince of Wales came 
in all royal state, and we saw them well, because they 
came dose in front of us, and so we had a good look at 
them, as our seats were in the second row from the 
front ; the authorities showed their love for us by giving 
at such places of honour. I can compare the kindness 
of the English to nothing on this earth. 

The soldiers came and took up their appointed posi- 
tions in line, and then we heard the Queen and the 
Prince of Wales coming, and the crowd cheering them 
very loudly for there were people all along the road by 
which they came to the courtyard of the Foreign Office 
(Horse Guards Parade), in which we were all waiting. 
The Queen came first in a carriage with two princesses ; 
the Prince of Wales was on horseback, with many 
famous people accompanying him, General Roberts 
being just in front of him, and they marched slowly 
round to greet every one. 

The Prince of Wales then got off his horse and stood 
up, and they brought the officers of the Indians up one 
by one to be introduced to him ; he shook hands with 
each one, who then retired backwards. After this he 
again mounted his horse. He first returned the salute 
of the soldiers, and then went round again a second time 
in the way in which he had entered, bowing as he went, 
and we all bowed and took off our hats ; the ladies did 







Xafries fro not take off their t>ats" m 



not do this, for it is not the custom in Europe for ladies 
to take off their hats. After he had said good-bye to 
as he went home, and we thought the kingdom of the 
English was a marvellous kingdom. 

As we were going back we saw the children of the 
Prince of Wales, the grandchildren of the King, getting 
into their carriage to go home, for they too had come 
to see their father reviewing the Indian troops. 



CHAPTER VIII 

Birmingham Steel pen making Making rifles Liverpool SS. O<tmtit 
Liverpool Town Hall The Cotton Exchange The landing-stage 
Cambridge " The tutor of the world "The University Press 
The University Library "One cannot have everything" St. Joseph's 
College, Mill Hill Hampstead An English wedding Carlisle 
Canon Kawnslcy's sonnet The Agricultural Show Cows like hippo- 
potami Sheep-shearing 

AFTER a short rest we left for Birmingham, the city 
in which Miss Dallison, the nurse in Mengo hospital, 
was born ; and after we had settled into our hotel, which 
was called the Queen's Hotel, we went to see her father. 
We found he was out, and her mother had a slight attack 
of fever, so we saw her brother and sister, and then came 
home, passing on the way a large house that had been 
built for poor people to live in, and of which Miss Dallison's 
father was the chaplain. He came himself to see us at 
night, with four of his children. 

The next morning, July 3rd, we went to see the factories 
of Birmingham. We first went to a place where they 
put gold and silver coatings on all kinds of things rings, 
spoons, kettles, basins, pots, cups, medals, forks and 
many other things that are gold and silver-plated. We 
saw how all these things were made, and then went to 
a pen factory. 



a pen factory 113 

This pen factory was a marvellous place ; there were 
in it 2,200 workpeople ; and we there saw a great number 
of women working only at making pens. There are a 
great many different operations, and each is carried 
on in its own department. Let me try and tell you 
them as well as I can remember. 

1. Cutting the steel into long strips for making the 
pens. 

2. Softening the steel to make it suitable for working. 

3. Examining, to see if the steel is suitable for pen- 
making. 

4. Cutting the steel into strips the size of a pen. 

5. Cutting off pieces at the sides to make the point. 

6. Pointing the pen. 

7. Splitting the point. 

8. Printing the lettering on the pen. 

9. Examining the pens to remove imperfect ones. 

10. Weighing the pens into packets. 

11. Making boxes for the pens. 

12. Baking the pens over the fire to harden them. 

13. Putting them into a mixture to temper them 
when red hot. 

14. Putting them in sawdust to polish them. 

15. Seeing that they are flexible and not brittle. 

16. Putting the boxes of pens into paper wrappers. 

All this work has to be done to a pen, and each kind 

8 



"4 "Uflanfra's Ikatilnro in 

of work has its own set of workmen, as I have told you ; 
but I have not mentioned a good many other operations 
that are gone through. The head of this factory (Perry's) 
was a very kind man, and took us round a great many 
places, and gave us many different kinds of pens made 
there, and a picture of the factory, to remember it by. 
After this we went to see a factory where rifles and 
bicycles are made (B.S.A.), and found there three thousand 
workpeople, men and women, in this one factory. On 
our arrival the manager very kindly gave us a man to 
take us round, and we first wrote our names in the visitors* 
book, and then our guide showed us all the different parts 
of a rifle ; each part has a special anvil and bellows and 
hammer to make it, and as each part is made it is handed 
on to other workmen, who continue the operation. The 
hammer was as large as the base of a large drum ; 
when they hammer with it, a man moves a lever, and 
the hammer works itself, and in the anvil underneath 
are sockets of different shapes, each one shaped like the 
forging that has to be made in it, and the one hammer 
makes all the differently shaped things. The whole 
building was full of belts and machinery, all working by 
the power of the engine that turns all the machinery 
and keeps on working till 5 p.m., when the workmen 
rest. We saw how the barrels are bored, and how the 
stocks are made, and how the screw-holes are made. 
They also fired off some of the rifles to test them, and we 
all three fired them at the target. 



" Oceanic " 115 

We also saw where they made bicycles, and saw a great 
many different parts being manufactured ; there were 
a great many women in the workshop, and we were 
amazed at the strength of English women that enables 
them to work like men, as in every kind of work one 
finds men and women. After this we had tea with the 
manager, and while we were at tea the time arrived when 
work was over for the day, and we saw all these three 
thousand workpeople, men and women, going away, 
and the whole road was blocked with them, they were 
so many. Every week they make fifteen hundred rifles, 
but during the Boer War they were making five thousand 
a week. My friends, one never ceases wondering at 
the English ; when we heard this, we shook our heads 
like a man suffering from hunger. 

The next day, July 4th, we left the city of Birmingham 
and went to Liverpool, where we arrived at 2 p.m. We 
went to the North- Western Hotel, and after lunch went 
to see the ships in the harbour, as Liverpool is the 
largest port in England ; the town also is very large, 
but not as large as London, which stands alone, no 
other town on earth approaching it in size. We got 
into an electric train, and reached a very large ship, 
the largest in England ; it was called the Oceanic, and was 
704 ft. long, and 70 ft. wide, and 60 ft. high, and will 
take 2,300 passengers ; the anchor was 4,000 tons in 
weight (!), and each ton is 2,240 lb., so you can 
understand what 4,000 tons is. There were 350 men 



'9 fcatiluro in 

in the crew, and it had two screws, and every hour 
travelled twenty miles, while other ships go only fifteen, 
fourteen, thirteen, or twelve miles per hour ; this is the 
quickest ship of all. We were taken all over it, and saw 
it all above and below. There were eight stories in 
tins ship. 

We saw the engines that drive the screw, but I cannot 
explain to you what they were like I can only say that 
they were marvellous ; one would think that such large 
engines would be only found on dry land. The people 
on board were very kind, and gave us tea. We got as 
tired in that boat as one would do in a town on land ; 
going up the stairs is like climbing hills on land, and 
that is the reason we got tired, though we did not go 
all over the boat, but only into about forty rooms. The 
rooms on the boat were just like the rooms in the houses 
in a town, but the eating-rooms and recreation rooms 
were very large, and higher than those on land. Apolo 
tried to reach to the top of one of these rooms with 
his stick, but could not do so, even though he is a tall 
man ; and though he added another stick, still he could 
not reach the roof, and we wondered without ceasing. 
The floors of these rooms were made of black and white 
indiarubber, and were so beautiful we did not like to 
tread on them. We saw another ship that will carry 
seven hundred head of cattle ; it was built only to carry 
cattle, and would appear very large to any one who had 
not seen the Oceanic ; it had three masts and two funnels ; 



IRounb ^Liverpool n? 

but we did not go on board, but merely looked at it. 
We saw also the gangway along which they take things 
on board ; any one who saw it would not know he was 
over the sea, as it is so large and wide, and rests one end 
on land and the other on the sea, where all the ships 
come ; it is all of wood. We went back again by the 
electric railway, the carriages of which were as large 
as on an ordinary railway. 

The next day, July 5th, our friend Councillor Dart 
came to take us over the town of Liverpool, and we 
saw the great buildings and assembly rooms. We saw 
there a very large organ ; the pipes that took the wind to 
it were like the funnel of a steamer ; there were about six 
hundred seats in the hall. We next went over the Town 
Hall, a very fine building indeed. We first saw the 
chief man of the town, who was called the Lord Mayor, 
and he gave us a guide to show us round, and we saw 
the place where the town council meet, and the law 
courts, the criminal court and the civil court, and the 
place where criminals go who are condemned to death, 
and where those go who are not yet condemned, and 
where the visitors sit. We saw also another room 
with three large lamps in it, about ten thousand pounds 
in weight, and two large mirrors, one on one side and 
one on the other ; if you look into them you see 
yourself everywhere. 

We then went to the Cotton Exchange to tell the 
merchants about Uganda, and found there a great many 



'0 "fcatihtro in 

people. Mr. Dart spoke first, and told them who we were 
and what our country was like, and then Apolo spoke 
a little, and when he had finished they all clapped their 
hands and took off their hats. We next went to t he- 
landing-place and saw how they had very clev< ilv 
made there a floating bridge which was like an island ; 
one would not know it was a bridge, though really 
there was water below. When a ship comes alongside 
it they put out planks, and such heavy things as horses 
and carriages can embark and disembark. 

We saw some carts that had come from Ireland (Bir- 
kenhead) and were full of casks of beer, about twenty 
in each, and they disembarked while we were there. 
After this we went to hear the large organ, but almost 
as soon as it began we had to leave to catch our train ; 
and so we left while the organ was playing, and got into 
the train for Cambridge. On our way we met at Leicester 
the father of Mr. A. B. Lloyd and his mother and brother 
and sisters, who were very like him ; they had got some 
tea ready for us, and after tea we got into another train 
and arrived at Cambridge at 9.30 p.m., and found the 
Rev. J. Roscoe waiting for us at the station, and went 
with him to the Bull Hotel, and were given our rooms 
where each was to sleep. 

The next day, July 6th, was a Sunday, and we went 
with Mr. Roscoe to a church that was about eight hun- 
dred years old. In the afternoon we went to visit the 
Master of Trinity and the Rev. T. W. Drury, Principal 



Cambridge 119 

of Ridley Hall, both of whom are great men in the city 
of Cambridge. We had dinner at Trinity College with 
a large number of those who were under instruction, 
and with Dr. Aldis Wright, who helped in turning the 
New Testament from Greek into English ; we saw him 
at the same table as ourselves and the Master of Trinity. 
We saw these great colleges where the sons of the rich 
are taught, and where they learn all manner of things, 
both theology and earthly wisdom. Now-a-days they 
are taught engineering, carpentering, and about all kinds 
of machinery, and also nautical knowledge and other 
things which are profitable to men in this life, after 
they have learnt religion. Our friends whom you know, 
Archdeacon Walker, Revs. R. P. Ashe, W. A. Crabtree, 
R. H. Leakey, E. Millar, H. Clayton, Mr. G. L. 
Pilkington, Dr. A. R. Cook, and others were all taught 
here, in the places we saw. 

This city is a very famous one on account of its learn- 
ing, because it teaches things that are much to be desired 
by all men on the earth, and though it is not as large 
as other cities, yet I call it " the tutor of the world " ; 
and though there are many tutors in Europe, yet there 
are none to equal Cambridge ; perhaps Oxford comes 
next to it. After dinner the Master of Trinity escorted 
us as far as the gateway of the courtyard, and said 
good-bye to us very kindly, and we went home. To 
this city many nationalities come, wishing to learn wis- 
dom, and I therefore call it the tutor of the world, and 



120 1Il0anfra'0 "katilwo in 

even though students pay heavily to be taught t! 
tli. TO is a reason for this, for " Who feedeth a flock and 
eateth not of the milk of the flock ? " 

The next day, July 7th, we went to see the house 
where books of all kinds are printed (University Press), 
and saw some wonderfully clever printing presses ; you 
will understand how clever they are when I tell you that 
the only work that has to be done by hand is to put 
in the paper ; the press prints by itself, takes off the paper 
itself, inks its own type, and cuts up the paper, and oils 
itself all this we saw. And though we had seen many 
wonderful things, still this was more wonderful, as it did 
its own work just like a man who has the spirit of 
life in him, though it was only made by man's wisdom. 
We were again amazed at the cleverness of the English, 
which is unending. We went over a great many rooms 
in which printing work of different kinds was being 
done, and then went to see the store of books that had 
been printed. 

After this we went to see the building in which they 
keep every book of every kind, one copy of each (Uni- 
versity Library). Of every book that is printed they 
take one copy, and put it in this building as a remembrance. 
We saw there a great many books some fourteen to 
seventeen hundred years of age, and they told us there 
were about half a million books in the library. Is this 
not amazing ? If you count the number of books in 
Ihe Bible from Genesis to Majachi, how many woulcj 



IHniveraits Xibrar^ 121 

you find ? then, again, how many are there from Matthew 
to Revelation ? Well, this is the way they count their 
books ; one book of every kind is stored up, just as 
Apolo Katikiro wrote Basekabaka Bebuganda (" Kings 
of Uganda "), and they took one copy and kept it ; in 
this way the number of five hundred thousand books 
is made up. 

After this we rested a short while, and then went to 
visit Mr. Roscoe, and stayed a long time talking to him 
and his wife and children, because his wife is just as fond 
of the Baganda as if she had been born in Uganda, though 
she has never been there, and it is only her kindness. 
If it were not for her children she would have come out 
there long ago with her husband. She is as kind as he 
is, and their children are equally kind. 

In the evening we went to see the Master of St. John's, 
and had dinner with him and his students and great 
men ; but the number of students was small, because 
a great many were away at this time, as it was the 
vacation. After this we went to see Dr. Frazer, who also 
was in Cambridge, and he gave us coffee. There were 
a great many people there among them two very clever 
ladies, sisters, who are well known, and who have travelled 
in many parts of Asia, and on Mount Sinai found a 
portion of the Gospel of St. John, which they were at 
work upon at that time, and they gave us a photo- 
graph of it. They have learned Arabic, and can speak 
it, and write it in its own characters. They wanted very 



122 llaitfa's i<ntil;iro in 



much to come to Uganda, but they made us laugh by 
saying, " We very much want to come to your country, 
but we are afraid of the man-eating lions " ; and we said, 
" There is now a railway, so that the lions do not eat 
people " ; and they said, " We heard that the lions had 
taken a man out of a railway carnage and eaten him," 
and we laughed very much at their wanting to come 
to our country and being afraid of lions, because there 
are a great many ladies now in Uganda, and they have 
not yet been eaten by lions ; and this made me under- 
stand that one cannot have everything. These women 
are very clever indeed, and yet they are afraid of animals 
they have never seen. They are very much alike, and 
very kind, and are both widows ; but their wisdom 
and their joy of heart are now to them in the place of 
husbands. After a time we went home, being very tired, 
as we had been visiting all day. 

The next day, July 8th, we left Cambridge, and went 
with Mr. Millar to visit the Roman Catholic Bishop of 
Nsambya (Uganda), whose name is Hanlon, and found 
him waiting for us at Mill Hill Station with a carriage. 
I forgot my fez in the train and Mr. Millar telegraphed 
for it, and they brought it back ; but I was very much 
ashamed of being bare-headed in such a great country, 
and to be like a little child, though a full-grown man, and 
so I covered my head with my pocket-handkerchief. 
We first visited the nuns, of whom there were six who 
hoped to go to Uganda ; and they showed us all round 



flDUl Ibill 123 

their nunnery, and collected about a hundred and fifty 
little children from three years old and upwards, and 
one of the nuns played on a harmonium, and all the 
children stood up in front of us and sang very nicely. 
We sat on a very nice lawn at the back of the house, 
which was on the top of the hill, so that we got a fine 
view. 

After the children had finished singing we thanked 
them, and went to see the church, which was very fine 
and large, and then we saw a number of men who were 
under training as priests to go out as missionaries. They 
collected them together to hear about Uganda, and Apolo 
told them what was going on in our country, and Bishop 
Hanlon translated for him. After this we had lunch 
and rested, and then we were photographed behind the 
church, and were taken all round the grounds, and 
saw there some pigs as large as calves ; we then had 
afternoon tea and went away. They brought us round 
a carriage, and after we had got in all the priests said 
good-bye to us very kindly, and cheered us loudly ; and 
when we waved our handkerchiefs they all cheered 
again until we got out of sight among the trees. Bishop 
Hanlon went with us as far as the railway station, and 
we then went to our place in Hampstead, Mr. H. E. 
Millar's house, which we regarded as Uganda, as we could 
always rest there ; and both he and his wife and children 
were very kind indeed, just like Mr. and Mrs. Roscoe 
were. 



124 "Uloarrta'e 1<atihtro in 



The next day, July gth, was the wedding day of the 
Rev. G. K. Baskerville of Uganda, and we got ready, 
and at one o'clock went to have lunch with him, and 
found there his father and mother and three brothers. 
i lunch we went with him to the church, and after 
we had waited a short time the bride arrived with great 
honour, and was beautifully dressed, just as all brides 
are ; her train, which trailed after her, was about eight 
or nine feet in length, and was of very fine material. 
She walked very slowly ; where an ordinary person would 
take one step, she took four, because she walked slowly, 
as is the custom of brides. When she entered the church 
we all got up and sang, and after we had sung and prayed, 
Mr. Baskerville's father united his two children, and 
after they were married they asked the Katikiro to write 
his name in the register as a witness. After this was 
over we went to have tea, and then went home and 
wrote our letters for Uganda. 

At eight o'clock we went to the Hampstead Town Hall, 
because Mr. H. E. Millar had made a great feast and 
collected a great many people, perhaps three hundred 
of his friends and others whom he wanted to see us. 
We stayed there a long time ; the building was a very 
fine one, built after the custom of the English. Hamp- 
stead is like a town, though it is not a town really, but 
a part of London ; just as Namirembe, Seguku, Rubaga, 
Natete, and Kampala are a part of Mengo, so also there 
are many districts in London. Hampstead is about 



Canon IRawnele^'s Sonnet 125 

as far from London as Munyonyo is from Mengo (eight 
miles). The following of our friends were at Mr. Bas- 
kerville's wedding : Revs. E. C. Gordon, H. Clayton, 
E. Millar, Mr. H. Maddox, and Mrs. Maddox. 

The next day, July loth, we left Hampstead at eleven 
o'clock and went to Carlisle to see the great beasts 
(Agricultural Show), and arrived at 5 p.m., since it 
was 299 miles off, and so were six hours on the road. 
Well, is not a journey half as long again as to Toro a 
long journey ? 

When we reached the station we met our kind friend 
Mr. Miles Maclnnes, who had brought a two-horse 
carriage to meet us, and took us to sleep in his own house. 
When we arrived his wife and daughters and friends 
greeted us very warmly, and his daughters made a fire 
for us, as it was very cold. They also played on the piano, 
and showed us a dog which had been taught wisdom. 
We went up to our rooms and admired the house very 
much indeed, for it was a very fine one ; but one gets 
tired of praising the English houses, they are such 
grand ones. We sat down twelve to dinner, six 
ladies and six men, amongst whom was a very kind 
friend called Canon Rawnsley, who wrote a sonnet to 
Apolo : 

" Though I should never see your dark face more 
Nor hear your murmuring soft Luganda speech, 
My prayers, my hopes, my memories still shall reach 
Across the forests of your native shore ; 



'd "katthtro in 

And I shall see you adding store to store 
For your young King, proclaiming each to each 
Justice and right, and urging men to teach 
In life and death the Saviour's precious lore. 

" Farewell, brave Katikiro, farewell, friend ; 
Go to your people, tell them we revere 
A man whose honour for the spoken word 
Is stronger far than power of spear or sword ; 
Tell them we love a man of heart sincere, 
And Britain gives you hand-grasp to the end." 

After dinner it had become dark, and we sat on talking 
to our friends, and went to bed tired at about n p.m. 

The next day, July nth, Mr. Maclnnes took us to see 
things of many kinds, animals, and things made by hand, 
both of wood and iron, and all kinds of seeds, etc. We 
drove in Mr. Maclnnes* carriage, while his children 
walked. We soon reached the place where all these 
things were collected. We first saw a statue of the Queen, 
which had been unveiled on July Qth ; it was a very 
good one, and an excellent likeness. We next saw pumps 
and mowing-machines, and thrashing-machines, and 
machines for cutting grass for horses, and that tied up 
the bundles just like a man would. We saw also sheep- 
shearing machines, butter churns, machines for making 
cloth, carriages, and movable wooden huts for police to 
sleep in. We saw too all kinds of food and of vegetables 
and flowers. We saw some very large cows that looked 
like hippopotami, and horses like buffaloes ; our Uganda 
horses are about as large as an English horse only a year 



Sbeep^abearing 127 

old. We saw too a horse as small as a goat, which they 
call a pony; and this is its natural size. There were 
about seven thousand animals in all, cows and horses. 

We saw there how they shear sheep ; when they are 
shearing it, the sheep does not move till all the hair is 
cut off ; and so we understood what we had heard in 
the prophecy about our Lord : "He was brought as a 
lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers 
is dumb, so he opened not His mouth " ; for we saw it 
being done. They shear the sheep every year, because 
the sheep are the bark-cloth trees of the English, which 
they beat out, and their wool makes the clothing that 
they all wear, as cotton clothing is not much worn ; 
but cotton cloth is used for other purposes. After this 
we went back to Mr. Maclnnes' house, after we had been 
photographed at the shearing place, and we have copies 
of this photograph at the present time. 

After a short rest we went on to Scotland, to the 
city of Glasgow. Mr. Maclnnes and his family all came 
to the station to see us off, and bade us a very kind 
farewell, and we went on our journey and arrived at 
Glasgow. 



CHAPTER IX 

Glasgow Visit to the Lord Provost The municipal building! A prison 
The University The Cathedral A coal mine Steel works Greenock 
Sugar refining The city councillors Dumbarton Shipbuilding 
Edinburgh The Forth Bridge Luncheon with Sir William Muir 
Paper-making Holyrood Palace Reception by the town council 

THE next morning, July I2th, we went to see round the 
city, and to see the great men and the important build- 
ings that were in the centre of it. The Lord Mayor of 
Glasgow had given us his representative to take us round, 
and we first went to see him himself. He welcomed 
us warmly and showed us a little of the Town Hall, 
but could not be with us long, as his office brought him 
much work ; and so he left us to the City Chamberlain, 
whom he had asked to see after us and to show us round. 
We saw the hall where the chief men met, in which 
were eighteen seats ; and the hall where the others met, 
in which were seventy-seven seats, and saw also other 
rooms. 

In the banqueting-hall there were a great many lights ; 
the weight of them was over a ton, the lights being 
about two hundred and fifty in number, and each was 
in a glass bulb and could be turned on separately, as 

128 



(Blaagow prison 129 

they were all electric lights, and the wires shine by 
themselves without any oil as we have in our lamps. 
They turned on these lights to show us how brilliant 
they were. We did not go over the whole house, which 
was about ten times as large as that of Kisingiri (third 
regent). They had valuable stone on the walls, which 
resembled scented soap or blotting-paper, and was 
much to be marvelled at. 

We then went to see the prisons, and were taken 
round by the Governor himself. We first visited the 
male prisoners. The prison was like this : they make 
a large stone building with iron doors immensely strong ; 
which have very small holes in them, through which the 
jailor can see what the prisoner is like as he sits inside ; 
they put in each cell a small prison table and a prison 
bed, which is not a nice one ; all the furniture of the 
cells is common, and suitable for prisoners very common 
prison chairs, very common prison clothing, very com- 
mon prison blankets, very common prison spoons, not 
like ordinary spoons ; they take a cow's horn and 
make a very thin spoon out of it, and all the prisoners 
eat with these ; for they are afraid of them killing them- 
selves if they had the ordinary metal spoons, hence 
they make them thus they make them thin as they 
are afraid that if they were thick the prisoners might 
be able to kill themselves. The building itself is very 
fine and the cells are nice, but very narrow; the bed- 
steads are narrow and so not nice ; the prisoners' 

9 



noanfra'0 fluitilnro in 

clothing too is common, and tlu-ir windows are - 
bad as they are very small, but they let out the bad 
nd let in the good. The jailors look after them 
very well, and give them books to read every one 
can have the book he wants ; but they do not let t 
receive private letters, or tobacco, or intoxicants, or 
anything else unsuitable ; they have rules forbidding 
all these things. 

They have arranged very cleverly too what to do 
when the prisoners' friends or relations come to see 
them. They have made two iron gratings on the side 
where the prisoner comes there is a grating, and where 
his visitor is there is also a grating, and there is a space 
of about ten feet between the two, so that they can- 
not stretch their hands across; and a guardian of the 
prisoners stands between the gratings listening to all 
that is said, so that nothing shall make the prisoner 
more unhappy during his imprisonment, and that he 
shall not obtain a letter or anything that is not allowed, 
and this is the reason they have to converse through 
iron gratings. 

Both the prisons, that of the men and that of the women, 
are alike ; perhaps the only difference is that the women 
are given looking-glasses, as they like looking at them- 
selves in the glass every moment ; and they are guarded 
by other women and not by men. I thought to myself 
that when a poor man or woman is brought into that 
prison he would be glad at all he gets there, because 



IReflections on prison %ffe 131 

at home he would not have a looking-glass and clothes 
and good food; the only thing that he would not like 
would be to be called a prisoner ; perhaps there may 
be some other reason to make people unhappy in prison, 
but of those things that I saw I do not think there is 
anything to make a man unhappy, unless he happened 
to be a man who had occupied an honourable position 
such a man might be unhappy ; but the kindness of 
the officials and the way they look after the prisoners 
are very good not for those evil ones who do not want 
to give up evil habits, but for those who have done 
wrong and do not like having done so, and repent. 

At the door of every prisoner's cell they put up the 
reason of his captivity, whether he be a man or a woman. 
The Governor told us there were 460 prisoners in the 
prison 270 women and 190 men. 

After leaving the prison we went to see a church 
which was eight hundred years old, having been built 
in the year 1102 ; it was very fine indeed, and very 
large. We then went to see the University and the 
hospital. We saw over the University and the place 
where the chief men sit, and from their seat we got a 
view over the whole town, and saw the River Clyde, 
which runs through the city. We had not time to go 
into the hospital, but went back to the Lord Mayor 
and had dinner with him, and then went home in the 
heavy rain. 

The next day, July I3th, was a Sunday, and we went 



's "katiluro in 

to the Scotch Cathedral of Glasgow, and found there 
a great many people ; they did not have many prayers, 
but read the Psalms and had a few extempore prayers, 
and a sermon and a hymn, and then all was over. 
They put a box in the doorway, and every one who 
in threw in his rupee, and was given a paper. Inside 
they also had a collection, so that the outside collection 
was merely to count the number of those who came 
in we understood it thus. When we left the Cathedral 
we walked home, looking at the streets and the houses 
as we went, and so reached our house, which was 
called Caledonian Railway Company's Central Station 
Hotel, Glasgow, and was the hotel at the railway station 
itself. The Katikiro had fever, so we did not go out 
again that day. 

The following morning, July I4th, we went to see how 
they dug coal ; we went some way by train, and then 
drove to the house of our friend Mr. Sholto Douglas ; 
his secretary, Mr. T. Stockdale, went with us to show 
us all we did not know. When we reached Mr. Douglas' 
house, Mr. Stockdale gave us some English clothes to 
wear so that we should not dirty our own clothes ; and 
we left our own clothes behind and got into the carriage, 
which took us to the train, which was only the fireplace 
that pulls the carriages along. We got on this, and it 
took us to the place where the coal was washed. It is 
difficult to explain how they do this. After leaving 
this place we went back to where they dig the coal. 



a Coal flIMne 133 

They first explained to us all the machinery above 
ground, which was not understandable, and we then got 
into the room in which they go down to where the coal 
is dug. We all got in Apolo Katikiro, Ham Mukasa, 
Mr. Millar, and Mr. Stockdale and arrived safely at 
the bottom, and there found a great many people in the 
bowels of the earth, both young and old, each one with 
a lamp on his cap to give him light as he worked. They 
gave us lamps also, and told us to fasten them in our 
caps ; but we were afraid of burning ourselves, and so we 
kept them in our hands, all of us who did not belong 
to the pit ; but all those belonging to the pit, including 
the small boys, fastened their lamps in their caps. We 
walked a good distance, perhaps about three hundred 
yards, and got to the end of the part where they were 
digging ; but other diggings were longer. There were 
rails along which the trucks of coal ran to take the coal 
away from the place where it was dug, and to carry it 
to the surface. They told us to dig a little ; the Kati- 
kiro would not do so, as he was tired, but I dug out a 
little, which I have brought to Uganda to show the 
Baganda what it is like, because they hear of it, but 
have never seen it. 

After this we went back, and I asked the depth we were 
underground, and they told us we were seven hundred 
yards down, and had gone three hundred yards along 
the passage, making a thousand yards in all. We then 
went home and washed the black off ourselves, and put 



'j? Ikatiluro in 

on our own clothes, and went to lunch with a lady who 
lived near ; she was about seventy years of age, and 
was very kind to us. Her husband was away ; we should 
have liked very much to have seen him, but we could 
not. They had a very nice house, and there were 
numbers of wild rabbits about, which even came quite 
close up to the house. 

We next went to see a great smithy, and saw how 
they make the wheels of railway carriages, and the iron 
plates for ships ; they make there plates for ships of all 
kinds, and we understood that Glasgow was a city of 
men who were clever at building ships. We saw, too, 
wonderful machines that lifted the blocks of iron, etc. ; 
some could lift 672,000 Ib. Is not this marvellous ? 
Who would ever think that such a weight could be 
lifted ? We saw a piece of iron of this weight being 
lifted, and were much surprised at the cleverness of 
the British. We saw also a machine that squeezes 
out iron into long plates ; they take a large piece of 
iron about a yard long, and squeeze it backwards and 
forwards till it becomes a plate ten yards long. If 
you try to look into the furnace where steel is melted, 
you cannot do so unless you have a piece of blue 
glass ; and if you were to try you would lose your 
eyesight. 

After seeing these things we went home, and very 
shortly afterwards five of the judges of Glasgow came 
to see us Messrs. D. M. Stevenson, John Ferguson, 



1bow Drunkenness is punisbefc 135 

Simon Dallas, and two others ; and asked us a great 
deal about our country, such as, " Are there many 
drunkards in your land ? " and the Katikiro told them 
how there were some, and how they were stopped. And 
they asked, " How do you punish them ? " and he told 
them that they were imprisoned for two months, or, 
if they would not give it up, for six months, if they went 
on drinking. They then asked him, " What do you 
do to drunken women ? " and he said that in our country 
we do not usually imprison women, but only men ; but 
there was one woman who used to get drunk, and received 
ten strokes as a beating, and her husband was told to 
stop her from getting drunk. They asked him, " Do 
you have drunkards in your Parliament ? " and he said, 
" A drunken man cannot come into our Parliament," 
and they asked him, "What do you do to chiefs and 
to peasants who get drunk ? " and he replied that a 
chief is fined 75 rupees (5), and a peasant 6 rupees 
(8s.), and is imprisoned two months. 

They were very pleased at hearing that drunkards 
were not allowed in our Parliament, and that the Parlia- 
ment itself did not like there being drunken men in 
our country ; and told us how they themselves im- 
prisoned drunkards for two or three days, and said, 
" We wish to punish them more severely, because they 
do not leave off getting drunk, and others we send out 
to work in the country." They also asked us what kind 
of traders came to our country ; and 'we told them that 



'0 l\atihiro in 

thrrc were Germans there, and Italians, and Indians. 
They then left us, and the Rev. H. W. Pembridge, th- 
vicar of St. Silas' Church, came to see us, and we talked 
to him for about forty minutes ; he was very anxious 
we should come and see his church, but we had not 
enough time. 

The next day, July I5th, we went to see how they boil 
sugar in a town called Greenock, which is near Glasgow, 
and which is the place where they boil the sugar that 
comes from sugar-cane. When we left our hotel we went 
by train to Greenock, which is by the sea-shore, and 
went first to the manager of the factory, who greeted 
us warmly, and then took us all over the works, and 
showed us how each part of the work was done. They 
first showed us specimens of the different kinds of sugar, 
and the different processes about twenty-five in number 
through which it passed. 

They boil the sugar, and pass it over the burnt bones 
of cattle and other animals ; these bones are all burned 
and become charcoal ; one can only wonder at the use 
they make of these bones one cannot explain it. We 
then went to another department and saw the boilers 
and engine that drives all the machinery ; in all factories 
the engines are alike, and though there is a difference 
between the different engines, it is difficult to tell what 
it is when one merely looks at them. The owners know 
the difference, but the whole building is full of noise 
above and below, and there are great wide belts always 



Sugar IRefinino at (Breenocfc 137 

turning round. We saw the bags through which the 
sugar is strained, and the place where the pure sugar 
runs out, and the huge pots in which it is boiled, which 
are made of iron, and are very tall ; this boiling 
takes away all impurities. In this place we saw the 
workmen had only got on very small cloths round their 
waists and nothing else, on account of the heat which 
there was where they worked. 

There were many other processes which it is difficult 
to describe in making this sugar, which was very sweet 
and in great quantities ; but those who make it have 
to work very hard. The machines of the English are 
many, and are all over the land, but they cause a great 
deal of work ; and because the English work so hard, 
therefore machinery spreads into all lands. We all under- 
stand that perseverance increases one's wealth ; but 
laziness does not do so in any kind of work, whether 
it be done by the hands or not. All you then who read 
this should not be lazy when they teach you different 
kinds of work. 

When we left this place we went to a room where 
women were putting the sugar into tins, in which 
it stays altogether, and is then sent out everywhere. 
English women work wonderfully fast, just like their 
husbands ; we were amazed at them. After this we 
went below and saw a great many men with simply 
bits of cloth on them, like the Kavirondo people or the 
Bahima ; they dress like this on account of the heat, 



's Ikntihtro in 

because if they did not take care of themselves they 
would soon die. 

These English factories are as large as the space in 
front of the King's enclosure in Uganda, or larger, and 
small factories are as large as the fort at Kampala, 
but all one building. After seeing round the factory 
we went into the office and washed our hands, for all the 
buildings were very dirty inside, and all the workmen 
had faces like black men, because the charcoal made 
them very black. After we had entered our names 
in the visitors' book we drove to see the chief man of 
the town ; and a great many people, both men and 
women, young and old, came to see what we were like. 

When we got to the Town Hall, we found the council 
were holding a meeting, and they received us very 
kindly. The man who came with us told them- in 
a few words who we were, and then all the councillors 
who were assembled there clapped their hands they 
were twenty-five in number ; and after this Apolo 
Katikiro spoke a few words, and we all clapped ; and 
then the chief man of the town said a little, and again 
we clapped ; and then we went away, since on our 
arrival we had found them occupied in discussing thein 
business. 

After this we returned to our hotel and had lunch, 
and then went to see where they make ships. When 
we arrived we saw a great many things screws for 
ships, and the way iron plates were pierced and bent, 



Shipbuilding 139 

and how boards were shaped ; we saw, too, planes of 
many kinds, that cut in a most wonderful way by them- 
selves. We saw one plane which cut off a shaving while 
we were there, and this shaving was just like a sheet 
of paper ; we asked the manager of the works to give 
it us, and he did so, so that we could show it to our 
friends, and not only explain in words what it was like ; 
and at the present time we have it, and show it every 
day. We then went to see where they build ships, and 
how they do all the work, from the keel upwards. We 
saw one just finished, and about to leave the yard ; it 
was very beautiful. 

They also showed us a thing in which they first try 
what the ship will be like. They make a model of the 
ship in beeswax and other things, such as fat, and have 
a large house in which is a very long ditch full of water, 
and in this they put the wax model, which is about 
five feet long, and exactly like what the boat is going 
to be, and has the same proportions. They showed 
us the way they made these models, and also a model 
which was complete, and which was in the water ; and 
we got on board this one, and they showed us how they 
tested it, to see if the shape was a good one, or in what 
way it was not right. The length of the ditch was about 
twenty or twenty-five yards from end to end, and both 
the Katikiro and I travelled all along it in the boat, 
and then came back along the side on foot ; the boat 
is drawn along by a cord, but whether it was a steam 



1<atthiro in 

engine or an electric one that pulll the cord I do not 
know. Again we were amazed at the cleverness of the 
English. 

After tea we were taken to see the models of the old 
ships made by the ancestors of the present firm ; and 
we saw how as they went on making ships they invented 
new things up to the present time. They have a large 
building in which all these models are shown, with large 
glass windows. We saw also the portraits of the founders 
of the firm (Denny, Dumbarton). After this we went 
away (to Edinburgh), and the manager of the works 
went back to his work. 

The next morning, July i6th, we went to see the 
Forth Bridge, which is one of the wonders of the world 
a marvellous thing ; there is nothing like it in any 
other land, but it is the only one of its kind and is 
near Edinburgh ; it was made in 1890. We first 
went to see the chief who looks after it, and he asked 
us to write our names in his visitors' book, and then 
accompanied us, and we walked over it to see what 
it was like. We saw the huge iron pillars, larger than 
any tree in Uganda, and 351 ft. high ; they went up to 
an amazing height. Some railway trains full of numbers 
of people passed over the bridge while we were there. 
We saw one trainload of eight hundred children, who were 
going out to play in the country, and they waved their 
handkerchiefs when they saw us as the train rushed 
past, and were very anxious to see us black people 



Gbe Jfortb Bribge 

if they had not been in the train they would all have 
come to look at us ; and we reached the other side, 
a distance of one or two miles. Seven trains passed 
us while we were on the bridge, and they were going 
very fast, so we got to one side ; but the rush of wind 
they made would have been enough to throw us over 
if we had not resisted it. I cannot tell you how fast 
the English trains go, and as we were only about two 
feet away from them the force of the wind was very 
great, and the bridge shook with the weight of the trains. 
The part of the sea which is bridged is about as far as 
from Munyonyo to Kisinsi. We then went down to 
the shore to look up at the bridge, and saw a very old 
well, perhaps a thousand years old, and I drank some 
of the water from it ; we also saw a woman knitting 
socks, and I asked her to let me try, and I knitted a 
little, and then we went away. The chief of the bridge, 
Mr. A. Hunter, was very kind indeed, and wanted to 
take us across the water so that we could see the bridge 
from below ; but his steamer was out of order and could 
not take us, so we went back by train by the way we 
had come on our feet, and when we got to his house 
he said good-bye to us, and put us into another train, 
and we went home and rested a little while. 

After a short rest we went to have lunch with our 
friend Sir William Muir, a very old man, eighty-three 
years of age, but still very strong, and with a good appe- 
tite ; he rides a horse and a bicycle, and talks with 



14* tloanfca'a fcatihtro in 



an exceedingly strong voice. All the questions which 
he asked us were very clever ones, showing that Ins 
mind has not got old. He said to us, " Next time you 
come you must bring your wives, and I will look I 
tin in for you in every way" ; and we thanked him very 
much for his kindness, for we saw that though we thought 
his time of departure from this world was near at hand, 
he did not think of this owing to his affection for us, 
and thought of future events as they concerned us, and 
not as they concerned him. He had three daughters, 
who had lunch with us, and after lunch we went to 
see how paper is made. 

The Lord Mayor (really Bailie Brown, as the Lord 
Provost was away) of the town of Edinburgh took us 
in a two-horse carriage to the place where paper is 
made, and there we found the manager, who greeted us 
very warmly, and showed us over his paper- works. We 
first went to see the grass from which paper is made, 
and which is like the grass which grows beside our lake ; 
we saw how it is first cut up and boiled, and pounded 
up in a machine to make it soft and to squeeze out the 
water. We saw how it was steeped in water a second 
time, and how the impurities were taken out, and how 
another machine made the paper white, and how the 
material became consistent and like a well-dressed 
goat-skin, and then became like real paper. We then 
saw how it was made smooth and nice like real paper, 
and how it was rolled up on a roller, and how the great 



Ibotyroofc 

rolls of paper were cut just as if they were merely one 
sheet. 

We saw women doing paper up into bundles just as 
you see it ; and a great many other things also we saw 
that we could not understand in this one work of paper- 
making. After seeing all this I asked for some speci- 
mens of the grass and paper to show to the Baganda, 
and we then went back to visit the Lord Mayor. 

He first took us to see the palace of Charles II. 
(Holy rood), which is four hundred years old, and was 
very fine ; the Queen (Victoria) used to use it and was 
very fond of it ; it was built in 1503. We saw the kings' 
beds, and the chairs of the ancient kings, and all their 
blankets, etc., and a great many other things. We 
saw the bedstead of Mary (Queen of Scots), which 
had a very old blanket on it which was like a pocket- 
handkerchief in size. There were visitors' rooms and a 
council-room, and a room where great men sat after they 
had dined with the king, or were summoned by him. 
After this we went to have tea with the Lord Mayor, 
and saw his robes and chain of office, which was worth 
900, or 13,500 rupees for the one chain. He made 
the Katikiro put on all these things to show him 
how they wore them ; he was a very cheerful and 
amusing man. 

After this he made a long speech, praising our country 
and saying how much they wished to be our friends, 
and how anxious he was that our land should increase 



144 TOflanfra'a Itatihiro in 

in wisdom. After he had finished the Katikiro spoke, 
and said how we were the friends of the English, and 
how we had always wished to be on friendly terms with 
them from the time of Mr. F. J. Jackson (1889) to the 
present time ; he told them also how the country was 
getting on at present. After this we went home to 
our hotel. On this day also Mr. Millar's sister came 
to see us, and also some traders, who told us how they 
wished to make something from our bark-cloth trees, 
and how they wished to come to Uganda and build 
where the Nile flows out. They asked a great many 
questions about our country. Apolo told them about 
the things that grow there and the things that do 
not grow there ; and after learning all this they went 
away. 



CHAPTER X 

Newcastle Sir William Armstrong's works Pottery making London The 
Natural History Museum Lord Salisbury's garden party A rest at 
Hampstead Reading Sutton's seed works Huntley & Palmer's 
biscuit factory " The stomach of England " 

THE following morning, July zyth, we went to Newcastle, 
where they make cannon, a distance of forty miles 
from Edinburgh, and there we found our friend Mr. 
William Cruddas, who took us to sleep in his own house, 
and did not make us sleep in a strangers' house, which 
they call in English a " hotel." 

He brought us a very nice carriage with two horses 
and took us to his house, where we found his two daughters 
waiting for us at the door. They greeted us very kindly, 
as is the custom of English ladies, and we went in and sat 
down for a little while, and then they showed us where 
we were to sleep ; and after we had washed off the dirt 
of the journey we went down to lunch, which we enjoyed 
very much, as the English always feed their visitors 
very well. 

After lunch we rested a little while, and then went 
to see the works where cannon are made. We went 
in the carriage which our friend had lent us we were 

MS 10 



146 Uoaitta'e Ikatihiro in 



Apolo Katikiro, Ham Mukasa, Rev. E. Millar, and Mr. 
W. Cruddas ; and when we reached the works they 
introduced us to the overseer, who was the second in 
command and not the manager of the whole works. 
He took us over the whole of the works, and our heads 
ached and our faces got black, as we went in and out 
through all the workshops, which were very smoky, 
as these workshops always are. We first saw how they 
bored out the barrels of cannon, and how they twist 
round them on the outside iron bands, which are like 
wire, only much wider. We saw the gun-carriages 
and the bullets, which were as tall as I was and were 
larger in size. We saw, too, where they forged gun- 
barrels, and also a hammer as large and as high as 
a hill made by white ants. Do not think that men 
hold these hammers and work with them ; this is not 
so at all. In England a great deal of work is done 
by hand, but this is usually the case in the country. 
In great factories machinery is their servant ; and their 
wisdom and strength are put into these machines, so that 
they become like human beings to work by themselves, 
and hammer and oil themselves, and lift up other machines 
and cut other pieces of iron, and do all kinds of work just 
like men. 

We saw a man-of-war, which was made for their wars 
which they wage with one another, when they fight 
with some other European nation. It had in it another 
house, which is put there to carry the big guns, and 



Gbe armstrona TKIlorfcs 147 

which the bullets of another ship cannot pass through. 
Inside it there were ladders. We went inside and were 
wonderstruck and amazed at it. It contained some 
guns that would carry fifteen miles, and other guns that 
would carry thirteen miles. It was just like a house 
on dry land ; its length was ninety-five feet. After 
this we went to see a finished gun ; and they brought 
three practice cartridges and put one in the breach of 
the gun, and told Apolo Katikiro how to fire it, and he 
did so ; they then put in another one, and told him to 
fire it by electricity, and he squeezed the electric thing 
and did so ; they then put in another, and gave it to one 
of the daughters of Mr. Cruddas, who was with us, to 
fire, and she did so by electricity. 

After this we went to see the store where all these 
things were stored up, and saw all kinds of cannon, and 
patterns of all kinds of work bullets, electric machinery, 
etc., all were there. We then went to look into a fire- 
place where iron was melted, but could not look in 
with the naked eye, but only through blue spectacles, 
which they gave us to look through. All the iron looked 
like water, and was in motion ; and after we had looked 
in they closed the doors, because there were doors 
over the holes through which we looked in. After 
having tea with the manager we went home, I taking 
with me a shaving from a cannon which I had asked for 
in order to show to the Baganda ; the Katikiro was 
given a thing like the inside of the barrel of a gun. The 



148 Iflflaitoa's "katiluro in 



whole works were as large or larger than the space in 
front of the King's enclosure in Mengo, and there are 
twelve thousand men employed in them, and they come 
from every part of the country and keep changing. 

The next morning, July i8th, we went to see how 
they make plates of earthenware for the rich. We 
saw the manager, who greeted us very kindly, and then 
took us round the works. He first showed us the stones 
which they use, and the earth, some of which resembled 
day, though it was not clay ; another kind was like our 
white earth, though it was different. He showed us 
the furnace in which the stones were burned, and the 
machine which broke them up and mixed them with 
water and earth, and filtered the mixture to take out 
the bad earth. 

We saw many places where the pottery was being made, 
and many machines for making it ; and they made some 
things in front of us to show us how it was done ; and 
we saw every kind of ware, cups, tea-kettles, slop-pails, 
and flower-vases that were like our hand-drums in Uganda. 
I took away with me some stones and some of the earth 
which is used in the pottery, in order to show it to my 
friends in Uganda ; they gave us also some of the powdered 
stone to take away. When we reached the store we saw 
what really beautiful things were made there, such things 
as we see in the shops in our own country, and we thanked 
the manager for showing us such beautiful work. 

After this we drove home, and then to the railway 



Natural Ibtetor^ flDuseum 149 

station, where we found the mother and two sisters 
of our Miss Glass, who married Mr. Fraser, and I gave 
her the letter of introduction which her daughter had 
given me, to say that I was one of her friends. We then 
got into the train and went to Hampstead, and left 
Newcastle, the birthplace of Miss Glass, the wife of the 
kind Mr. Fraser. 

On the following day, July iQth, we went into London, 
to the shop where they were making an iron boot for 
me, and there met Dr. B. W. Walker. I tried the boot 
on, but it did not quite fit ; and then we went to a 
doctor to have Apolo Katikiro examined, as he had a 
bad chest. The doctor examined him very carefully, as 
he was a very clever man, and told him that he had an 
adhesion in his inside, and that was what pained him, 
and that there was nothing the matter with his chest 
or anything else. The Katikiro then gave the doctor 
his fee and we left. I went home with Dr. Walker, 
because he was a great friend of mine through his 
brother Archdeacon Walker the friend of the Baganda ; 
and the Katikiro went away with Mr. Millar to buy 
some things. 

After lunch Dr. Walker took me (Ham Mukasa) to 
see the building called the Natural History Museum, 
where they keep dead animals which they have bought 
and sewn together, so that they look as if they were 
alive. We walked a short way, and then got on to a 
carriage of two stories which is called an omnibus, and 



150 llo.infr.Vs Icntibiro in 

reached the building I have told you of, and wondered 
at all the animals. Any living thing that is not there 
has never been seen by an Englishman, or it would have 
been brought there, whether it were bird or creeping 
thing or precious stone ; all things from all nations, 
whether white or black, were there. It was there that 
I saw the whale that swallowed the prophet Jonah, so 
that he should go to Nineveh. 

Let me try and tell you the names of what I saw : 
lions, bears, tigers, elephants, giraffes, hyenas, apes 
larger than men, which are called gorillas, hippo- 
potami, rhinoceros, different kinds of antelope, zebras, 
wolves, buffaloes, jackals, kangaroos, and another animal 
like a horse that came from Ruwenzori and which Sir 
H. H. Johnston brought ; it has legs striped like a zebra, 
though it is not a zebra. We saw also birds of every 
kind from all over the world ; I saw a crocodile which 
they found inside a rock which they had split open, mice 
of all kinds, and the largest tree in the world ; they 
had cut off a section of the trunk and brought it there. 
I saw too the largest elephant's tusk in the world, and 
stones of great price called " diamonds " that are put 
into rings, and many other kinds of stones also. I saw 
also a bird the bones of which had been found, though 
it does not exist now, but was destroyed long ago. 
It was like an ostrich. However, I cannot tell you 
about all we saw ; I can only tell you a few of the things 
which Dr. B. W. Walker showed me. We went round 



tDisit to %ort> 

the place together ; it is open every day, and about 
ten thousand visitors go there daily. 

After we had been round the museum we went back 
to tea at Dr. Walker's house, and he sent for a friend 
of Archdeacon Walker's to come and see me ; however, 
after waiting some time, as he did not come, they called 
a cab and gave me a letter to show where I was going, 
and some medicine for the Katikiro, and I went home 
to the house of Mr. Henry E. Millar at Hampstead, 
which was called Heathdown ; and called Mr. E. Millar, 
and he paid the cabman, who had driven a distance as 
great as from Munyonyo to Mengo (eight miles). I then 
told the Katikiro about what I had seen, just as I have 
described it here, and he told me his adventures, which 
were as follows : 

After he and Mr. Millar had left us they went to buy 
some things and then went home, and after a short time 
went to visit the Prime Minister of England. They found 
there a great many kinds of people, Chinese, Indians, 
Moors, South Africans, and a king who was black like we 
are, and who had come from near Lake Nyasa ; 
his name was Lewanika, but he was not a Christian, 
and did as he liked. There were about three thousand 
English people there drinking tea as they stood up, as 
is their custom. The Prime Minister asked the Katikiro 
about Uganda, and he told him all about what they 
asked him, and then Lord Salisbury told his son to take 
the Katikiro over the house to show him what it was 



152 V0anfefr ftatifcfro in 

liki , and he took him all round it. His son too is a person 
of distinction, and is called Lord (Cranborne). The 
house was built by Queen Elizabeth and given to his 
ancestors, and is a very beautiful one ; the Katikiro saw 
in it chairs of gold, such as are in the houses of great 
people, and there is also a large church in it. After seeing 
all this they came back to Hampstead. 

On this day we heard of the death of Saidi, the Sultan 
of Zanzibar. His son, who was called Said Ali, had been 
in England for the coronation to represent his father, 
and knew English very well, since he had been taught 
at Harrow School. He heard of his father's death 
on his way home, and was then chosen to succeed him 
as he was the only son, and he is the sultan at the present 
time. 

The next day, July 20th, was a Sunday, and we went 
to church and rested the remainder of the day, and stayed 
at home ; and all the time we were in England we never 
obtained another day like this one, on which we could 
rest right up to the evening, as we did in the house of 
H. E. Millar, the brother of E. Millar. He is a very kind 
man, and his children are very kind too, and his wife is 
a true English woman at heart, being really kind, as the 
true English are. 

On the following day, July 2ist, we went to Reading 
to see how they make biscuits. When we reached the 
railway station we found the Lord Mayor of Reading 
waiting for us, though he was not the real Lord Mayor, 



153 

but only his deputy, who took the position when his 
friend was not there, as he himself had been Lord Mayor 
in a previous year. He was a very kind man, and had 
brought us a two-horse carriage in which we went to his 
place. He was wearing his robes of office in order 
to give us honour. When we reached the Town 
Hall we found the council settling the affairs of 
their town, and they received us with honour, and 
we stood up before them while the man who had brought 
us there told them who we were, and the Katikiro then 
said a few words to them about Uganda, and how we had 
come over to see what their country was like. After 
he had spoken we went away, because they were busy ; 
and were shown all over the building, and saw what it 
was like. 

We then went to see over some fields of valuable 
flowers (Button's seed works) of very many different 
kinds ; the man who took us to see them was the head 
of the company that did business in flowers and in flower 
seeds. We went over some very large grounds, and saw 
also some flowers that did not like the cold, and so had 
glass houses built for them, in which were pipes through 
which hot water flowed, and the heat from the pipes 
went all over the houses, and was like the heat of the sun, 
and so the flowers grew in the heat. It is a beautiful 
sight to see a field of these flowers ; they are very pleasing 
to the eye when one looks at them. 

The rain came on and we left, and went to a building 



154 lloairta'a Ikatifctro in 

in which was a large assembly room. After a short 
we went to have lunch, and when we got into the 
dining-hall, we found there a great many English people 
who had been invited to lunch with us perhaps there 
were as many as sixty of them or more, men and wonirn ; 
some of the men had beards as white as the beard of a 
colobus monkey, and very fine and beautiful. 

When we had finished eating our host rapped on 
the table, and every one kept silence, and all turned 
their eyes and ears to him, and he told them all about 
our land ; when he had finished another man spoke, 
and then another, until five people had spoken, and 
then the Katikiro said what he had to say, and told them 
what our country was like, and how it was doing, and 
how he wanted all the people to get wisdom of all kinds 
that is useful in this world, both spiritual wisdom and 
earthly wisdom that is profitable to people in this life. 
When they heard this they were very pleased at our 
anxiety to learn wisdom of the right kind and not 
foolishness. 

After this the Katikiro stood by the door and shook 
hands with the guests as they went out, and then we 
went to see how biscuits were made. We saw a great 
deal of machinery in motion, which was very puzzling ; 
but all the machinery of the English in all the factories 
is alike, and when it is all in motion you cannot distin- 
guish the different kinds of work that are being done, 
though the workmen and owners know the difference. 



a Biscuit factory 155 

We saw how they begin making biscuits : they have a pot 
in which water is boiled, and the flour is mixed with it 
and gets quite soft ; when it is soft they put it into a 
machine that squeezes it and makes it like paper, and 
then another machine cuts it up into lumps like biscuits 
of all the kinds which you see ; every kind has a machine 
that cuts it up in the way in which you see it ; all kinds 
are made in the same way, and get their shape from the 
machine that cuts them up. After the biscuits are cut 
out they are put into a machine which bakes them, and 
then they put them in water in which they are boiled ; 
when they are cooked they rise to the surface ; the un- 
cooked ones sink to the bottom. I inquired how many 
different kinds of biscuits were made, and they told 
me that there were a thousand varieties, and that there 
were six thousand people employed in the works. I 
called this factory " the stomach of England," because 
it feeds the whole land. 

After this we went to see the father of Mrs. R. H. 
Leakey of Ndeje, Bulemezi, and we there saw the father 
and mother and one sister of Miss Pike, who used to be 
at Gayaza ; we also saw Mrs. Gordon's mother, who had 
with her an orphan girl from Zanzibar (Mombasa), 
whom she had brought home to be educated. She had 
already been two years in England, and the Church 
Missionary Society had taken pity on her and had brought 
her to England in their kindness, so that she would not be 
unhappy when she had grown up. She had two brothers 



156 Tfloani>a'e 1<atifctro in 

in the Government service. Mrs. Gordon's mother told 
me that she had had thirteen children, or thirty-five 
including her grandchildren, and we praised God for 
1 1 kindness to her and her husband in giving them 
such joy that was not for all, and could not be bought 
with money, even though one might be a man with 
uncountable wealth. 

After this we went back to London, and journeyed 
as far as from Mengo to Busi, and went to the (> 
Central Hotel. 



CHAPTER XI 

Sheffield Armour-plate works Electro-plating Brick-making by machinery 
Cutlery works Exhibition of ladies' work Reception by the Lord 
Mayor of Sheffield Manchester Cotton spinning and weaving Rubber 
works A house on fire Plate-glass making Railway carriage works 
Crewe locomotive works 

THE next day, July 22nd, we got into the train to go 
to Sheffield, the birthplace of Mr. C. W. Hattersley, 
who teaches the Baganda children writing and arith- 
metic, and who was the first to build a children's school 
in Uganda, and is therefore held in honour by all the 
Baganda, and has also taught a great many old men 
who at first could not learn to read. When we reached 
Sheffield railway station we found the Lord Mayor 
waiting for us, and he greeted us very warmly, and took 
us away in his two-horse carriages ; he and the Katikiro 
and Mr. Millar got into one, and I and Archdeacon Eyre 
went in the other, and they took us along with great 
honour, and made three policemen on horseback go in 
front of us. A great many people followed us some 
went in front and some on both sides, and we went 
along in the centre in great state ; and every one wanted 
to see what we were like, because the chief of the town 

157 



i5 8 THoanfra'a "fcatiftiro in 

had given us such very great honour, and therefore 
many people came, both old and young, to see what 
sort of people they were who were given such honour. 

While we were still in London Mr. Millar had written 
a letter to tell the people of Sheffield, " The Katikiro 
of Uganda will arrive on such and such a day," and 
this had been printed in the papers, and had been told 
to all the people in the town, so that they were waiting 
for us in all the streets which we were to pass through, 
and we went along through crowds of people stand- 
ing in the streets; some got on the tops of the houses 
and looked down on us as we passed, to see who they 
were who were coming in such state : we saw the women 
lifting up their little children and running with them 
that they might see what we were like ; there were a 
great many people, young and old, men and women. 
At last we reached the factory in which the Lord Mayor 
was interested, and, after writing our names in the visitors' 
book, were taken to see all the work they did ; because 
in this city they make different kinds of things, such 
as wheels and axles for railway carriages, bullets for 
cannon, screws for ships, and plates for ships through 
which bullets cannot pass, and a great many other 
things which are not explainable in Luganda. We 
saw also a machine for lifting other iron things, which 
would lift 2,560 frasila, or, as they call it, forty tons, 
and were very much astonished at it. After this we 
asked if we might go away, as we were very tired 



Sbefffelfc 159 

indeed, and they begged us to stop and have some 
tea ; but we refused, as it was past our time for going 
home, and we wanted to rest. If you agreed to 
everything the English beg you to do, you would get 
ill and die a sudden death, because they are so kind 
they want you to see everything, and to talk to them 
all day long ; and so their kindness tires you before 
you know it, and you are like a reed which is burning 
at both ends and so gets burned right up quickly. 

They took us away in state with our policemen in 
front, and we arrived at the house of Archdeacon Eyre, 
where we were going to stop. He is a very kind man, 
very tall and big, and has eight children. At four 
o'clock the Lord Mayor wrote down for us the names 
of the places which we were going to see on the morrow, 
and said he would call for us at nine o'clock that is 
to say, three o'clock in Uganda reckoning. 

The next morning, July 23rd, we went to see the 
factories where they make knives and metal tea-pots, 
and spoons, and forks, and metal plates, and razors, 
and where various things are made of ivory, tortoiseshell, 
and horns of animals, and hoofs of horses, though we 
did not see any of these last, but were only told 
that horses' hoofs were used. However, we saw all 
these other things that I have mentioned, and saw 
also how they broke up a kind of stone which is like that 
which we have on the Sese Islands, and reduced it to 
powder, and then added water and made it into bricks. 



160 Tflattoa's "ftatihiro in 



All this work is done by machinery ; the only work done 
by hand is to take away the bricks. When they have 
dug out the stones they put them in boxes which are 
fastened on to a long chain, which is very cleverly made 
and is driven round and round, and so carries away 
the boxes and brings them back again without stopping ; 
the machine which drives the chains round is also very 
clever. In the building is a great deal of machinery 
of different kinds : there is one machine which grinds 
the stone to powder, and another which breaks up stones 
as large as those we use for putting our cooking-pots 
on over the fire is not this a wonderful thing ? even 
if they put in three stones at once, it breaks them all 
up. When it has finished it passes them on to the 
machine which breaks up small stones, and when this 
one has finished with them it sends them on to the 
machine which grinds them to powder, and this one 
in its turn to the machine which mixes the powder 
with water ; this last passes the material on 
to the machine which pounds it up till it looks 
like clay. Then it goes on to one which makes it 
up into a long roll, and then to a machine 
which cuts this roll up into pieces, and last 
to another that moulds these, and they come" out 
very fine bricks indeed. The machinery never gets 
tired ; the only things that get tired are the workmen 
who put in the stuff. As each brick comes out it 
is taken into a warm chamber, where it dries in the 



a 1knife*3f acton? l61 

heat of the fire, not in the heat of the sun. When it 
is thoroughly dry it is taken to a chamber in which 
a fire is made, and there it is thoroughly burnt and 
becomes like a stone in hardness. This is the way in 
which we saw them making bricks. 

We saw that the people in this town were very pleased 
to see us ; a great many children, perhaps as many as 
three hundred, collected together at the brickworks 
and sang a fine song in praise of the King when he is 
crowned (" God save the King "). It was a very fine 
hymn, and made one shake one's head in time with the 
music, it was so fine ; and we were very pleased in- 
deed with these children. 

We next went to see the knife factory, and when we 
arrived we saw that each man had his particular work : 
some forged the knives, others put them in the handles, 
others sharpened them, others polished them, others 
stamped the writing on them, others packed them away 
each work had its particular workmen, all engaged 
in the one work of knife-making ; and this is the same 
with all kinds of work each operation has its own 
set of workmen, and we were amazed at all the different 
things the English make, as I have told you before. 
The building was full of rooms, in each of which 
different kinds of work were being done. We also saw 
the great store of ivory which is used for making the 
handles of knives, and a great many beautiful things 
which they make ; we saw one knife with seventy 

ii 



1 62 IHoatrta'0 ikntihiio in 

blades, the value of which was two thousand poi; 
and a blade of every new kind of knife which they 
invent each year they put into this one handle, each 
year and the corresponding blade. After seeing all this, 
they gave each of us a knife, and we went back to 
Archdeacon Eyre's house and rested. 

After we had rested a little we were taken to see a 
building in which all kinds of work done by ladies were 
shown, work which they had done with their own hands. 
We found a great many ladies there who had come to 
see what other ladies had done, and to praise them, 
and to thank them for what they had done, and to say 
how it pleased them. You know the English praise 
very much any new inventions, and that is the reason 
they get wiser every year. Were it possible, it would 
be a good thing for us to do the same, and praise the 
work done by clever men in our country, so that they 
should be pleased and go on and invent something else 
another year ; but it is difficult to learn to do this all at 
once. However, a city is not built in a day, and takes a 
long time, and so also one cannot learn all the wisdom of 
the English in a short time, but must do it slowly. 
" He who goes slowly goes far." 

After we had sat down, our friend Lord Mayor G. 
Senior stood up and told those who did not know how 
we had come to see this exhibition, and when he had 
finished Archdeacon Eyre made a long speech, but 
before him the bishop (of Sheffield) told how we had come 



Meeting at tbeZTown 1ball 163 

there, and also told the ladies how they ought to try and 
do useful work of all kinds. 

There was one very rich widow lady there, whose 
husband had died and left her all his money, and she 
had no child. They told us she had forty million pounds, 
and there was a little child who gave this lady a basket 
full of flowers. We saw there a lady making some very 
beautiful cloth, and she made some for us as we were 
standing by, and we were very much astonished and 
thanked her very much for being so clever. 

We left in great state with our policemen in front 
on horseback to keep the crowd away from us, and went 
to the Town Hall, where we found a great many people 
had collected together to see us. Lord Mayor G. Senior 
welcomed us very warmly, and asked us to stand near the 
door, the reason of this being that he wanted us to greet 
all the visitors, and so each one who passed shook us by 
the hand. We were doing this for about half an hour, 
and then were taken to the platform, and given seats 
in the front, and the Lord Mayor told the people a great 
deal about us and our country; and then Archdeacon 
Eyre spoke for some time, and made me laugh very 
much because he said I could sew very well indeed. 
He had found me putting a button on my white robe, 
and looked at me very carefully and asked me if I knew 
how to sew, so I said that I knew a little, and that is the 
reason he praised me. Truly the English make people 
glad in the work they are doing : the little I was doing 



164 TH0atfta'0 1<atihlro in 



he praised openly, that all might know how nicelv I 
could sew ; well, would not any one go on learning, so 
that he could get more praise ? 

After he had finished, the Katikiro spoke, and told the 
people how we wanted to learn to do work of all kinds, 
and wanted teachers ; teachers both of the Gospel and 
also of handy work of all kinds carpenters, smiths, 
builders, traders in cotton goods and other things, brick- 
makers, and coffee-planters. After he had finished, 
every one clapped their hands and cheered to give the 
Katikiro honour, and to thank him for the good things 
he had said, and for saying how pleased he was at all he 
had seen, and for liking their country so much as to ask 
them to send out people to teach the Baganda all kinds 
of trades. 

After this we had tea, and then the Lord Mayor called 
us and gave each of us a knife for himself and one for 
his wife ; we then went to the railway station to take 
the train for Manchester, and said good-bye to all our 
many friends who were there, Mr. C. W. Hattersley's 
mother and daughters, and Mr. T. B. Fletcher's brother. 
The Lord Mayor in his kindness went with us in state 
to the railway station, and said good-bye to us when 
we were in the train for Manchester, and then went 
home. 

My friends, we were given wonderful honour in Sheffield ; 
we were like warriors who had come back from conquering 
a great nation, because large numbers of people came 



flDancbester a Clotb factory 165 

to look at us and followed us wherever we went. We 
left Sheffield at half -past five, and got to Manchester 
at half-past six. 

The next day, July 24th, we first went to the Town 
Hall of Manchester, a very fine building, but did not go 
inside it, as it was closed ; we saw, however, a great many 
statues of their judges, who in English are called " Lord 
Mayor." After this we went into a cloth factory, where 
they make cloth of all kinds. We saw how they comb out 
cotton in a great many machines ; there were about ten 
different kinds of these machines which make the cotton 
ready for making cloth, and about twelve more kinds to 
complete the manufacture of cotton sheeting in lengths. 
We saw about a thousand women at work in this cloth 
factory. In a cloth factory one cannot hear what one's 
companion says, even though he be quite close, on account 
of the noise of the machines, which make a noise like a 
large waterfall, or even a greater noise than that. 

After we left the cloth factory we went to some rubber 
works, and there saw about fifteen different kinds of 
machines preparing the rubber. We saw how macin- 
toshes are made : they take some cloth which looks 
like unbleached calico, but is strong ; this they squeeze 
in a machine together with rubber, and the rubber 
enters into the cloth ; after they have done this they 
cut up the cloth, and sew it into beautiful macintoshes 
just like you see in Uganda. We saw rubber that had 
come from all countries, America and Africa and other 



1 66 Tfloanfca'e fcatihtro in 



places. After this we said good-bye, and were each 
given a rubber thing with which ladies wash their faces 
in the morning. 

We saw a great many other things on this day, and 
saw a shop being burned ; it was a fine shop and goods 
to the value of about seven hundred thousand rupees 
(nearly 50,000) were destroyed. We saw how they 
fight with fire ; they have a steam-engine which goes to 
help and pumps up water to a great height where the 
fire is ; the water comes out with great force perhaps 
if they were to turn it on the people it would kill them. 
The English, however, are very much afraid to go close 
to a fire their cleverness makes them appear to be afraid 
of it, because they stand a long way off to put it out ; 
but when they are teaching the Baganda I see that 
they are not at all afraid of it I am constantly seeing 
how little afraid of it they are. I see that there are 
many things the Baganda cannot do, but they are not 
afraid of fire. 

Mr. F. Taylor, the father of Mrs. H. Maddox, took 
us to see all the things we saw in Manchester ; he is 
a very kind man indeed as kind as his daughter. 

The following day, July 25th, we went to a town 
called St. Helens, to see how they make glass. We 
went by train a distance of twenty-one miles from 
Manchester, which is as far as from Entebbe to Kazo, 
and were accompanied by Mr. F. Taylor. The manager 
of the works showed us how glass is made ; we saw the 



B (Blaes factory 167 

sand and charcoal and limestone, which are all heated 
up together in an earthen pot, and get very hot in- 
deed, and the stuff appears like water. They make 
a brick oven as large as a small tent, into which they 
put the earthen pots ; these pots are very large and 
very thick indeed their thickness is equal to the length 
of one's thumb, about two inches ; well, after they 
have filled these pots with the stuff I have told you 
about, they run them on wheels into these ovens, and 
then close the door and put in some coal which burns well, 
and pipes from bellows go in at the bottom and air is 
blown in so that the fire burns very strongly. 

I cannot leave off praising the English. Listen ! 
They make a coal fire very deep down in the earth, 
and from this they take pipes everywhere which give 
them heat for melting iron, and all these other things, 
sand and stones, which make glass all these things 
are melted by the gas which comes from coals and 
which burns very strongly indeed, and we wondered 
with an unceasing wonder. The things of the English 
are amazing ! 

After all the things in the pot have become liquid 
they have an appointed time at which they take it out 
of the oven, and then it is put on wheels and taken 
to an iron table, perhaps 10 ft. wide and 15 ft. long, 
and some of the liquid in it is poured out. They 
seize the pot with very large iron pincers on each side 
to empty it out on to this table the English are very 



i68 'Uaitfa's Ikatilnro in 



strong, as these pots are very heavy. Well, u 
have poured it out, they bring an iron roller like tin- 
trunk of a large tree, and run it up and down on this table, 
and it spreads the liquid all over the table ; they then 
take this off and bring another thing, with which they 
cut off a part of the glass which has become hard ; the 
plate is then put into an oven which has no fire in it, 
but is very cold, and there it stays for a whole day and 
hardens. The next morning they take it out and take 
it to the workmen who take off the roughnesses ; and 
when these have finished with it they pass it on to 
the polishers, who make it shine ; and they pass it on to 
the men who cut it up into the various shapes in which 
it is required. When this is finished they put a red 
substance on it, which prevents the light from passing 
through it, so that one can see into it from one side 
only this work is done by women ; it is next 
handed on to the people who fit the glass into frames, 
like you see everywhere, and the looking-glass is 
complete. I have not written down all the different 
kinds of work done to it, as it is difficult to describe 
them all. 

After seeing all this we had lunch, and then went back 
home and rested for a while, and then went to see a place 
where they make railway carriages that are sent every- 
where some of the carriages for the Uganda railway 
were made in this place ; we saw carriages of every kind, 
from passenger carriages to those in which cattle travel 



Crewc 169 

when they go from one country to another by train ; 
we saw numbers of boards, millions of them ; and then 
came home. The man who took us round was going 
to marry one of Mr. Taylor's daughters, and then go 
out as a missionary to India ; he had been asked by 
Mr. Taylor to take us round, as he had himself been 
in these works for some six years, and having made 
his money in them was no longer working there. In 
the evening we had dinner at Mr. Taylor's house, and 
there met Mrs. Taylor and her daughters. 

On July 26th we went to Crewe, where they make 
the " heads " for railway trains, and there met the 
chief engineer, who gave us some one to show us round 
the shops. We saw how they first forge large sheets 
of iron, and then pierce them with a great many holes, 
in which they put nails to join the fireplace to the 
water-tank ; the holes for the tubes only were 
about eighty in number, and the tubes themselves were 
like gun-barrels. The strength of the piercing and 
boring machines was immense and incomparable, be- 
cause they pierce and cut through iron as thick as a 
man's hand, or about four inches thick, and cut through 
it as quickly as one would cut through a banana stem. 
Those large nails that you see are all made in one machine, 
which cuts them and works them and puts the heads 
on them, and they come out complete. A man brings 
a hot bar of iron and puts it into the machine, and 
the machine itself does every little bit of the work. 



's luitihiro in nfltan& 

There were a great many machines of this kind in the 
workshop. 

We saw some engines just completed, and others 
not yet finished, and some only just begun, and many 
kinds of engines that take about trains ; for this is 
the fountain-head of the strength of all trains. After 
this we inquired the number of men at work in these 
shops, and were told there were 7,500. We then 
returned to the chief engineer's office, and they 
photographed us near the '* head " of the train that 
had taken us round ; we were in all Apolo Katikiro, 
Rev. E. Millar, Ham Mukasa, and Mr. F. W. Webb, 
the chief of the workshops, and we were photographed 
in the clothes which we wore when on a journey. After 
this we went to see where they store up the lightning 
that gives light to the town, but when we got there we 
were not clever enough to understand it, and were simply 
amazed at the way they could store up in one place 
power enough to give light everywhere by means of electric 
lamps ; each person had a wire going to his own house, 
even though it might be twenty miles off, and this wire 
brought him light even though he was so far off, and 
in every house, whether of a rich man or a poor man, 
there was electric light. Some have light from gas 
which comes out of coal, and that too comes from one 
place and is spread everywhere ; the things of England 
are marvellous. 

After this the people of Crewe saw us off, and we got 



Ikatifctro's Hbfcress 171 

into the train for London and went to Hampstead to 
the house of Mr. H. E. Millar, where we used to rest and 
escape the noise and rush that there was in the centre 
of London. 

The following day, Sunday, July 27th, we went to 
Christ Church, Hampstead, and then came back home 
and rested. The father of Mr. C. J. Phillips, the store- 
keeper of the C.M.S., Namirembe (Uganda), came to 
see us, and we had a long talk with him ; he was an 
elderly man, but not so big as his son, and gave us some 
match-boxes as a Christmas present. In the evening 
we went to a mission hall; our friend Mr. H. E. Millar 
preached and also played the organ, and when he had 
finished, Apolo Katikiro made a long speech, praising 
the kindness of the English, who invited us to stop 
with them ; he also asked for teachers to come to our 
country and teach us all kinds of useful things, and 
said how much obliged he was to those people who 
always welcomed us. He spoke in Luganda, and the 
Rev. E. Millar, as usual, interpreted. After this we 
went to the Holy Communion in the church, and then 
went home to fasten up our letters for Uganda, and 
also to pack our things, because we were about to go 
back into London, as our friend Mr. H. E. Millar was 
packing up to go into the country, and his wife and 
children also were going there to rest. 



CHAPTER XII 

The Natural History Museum Shopping Lunch with Sir Benjamin Stone 
The House of Lords The Guildhall Visit to Mr. Burdett-Coutts* 
stud farm Visit to Warlies Interview with Lord Rosebery Dinner 
with the King's guard Changing guard at St. James's Palace Interview 
with Sir Clement Hill 

THE next morning, July 28th, we packed up our 
things, and after breakfast got into our carriage to drive 
back into London; our friend Mr. H. E. Millar and 
his wife and children said good-bye to us, and bade 
us farewell with true kindness that had no hypocrisy 
in it, for they were all very sorry indeed to say 
good-bye, both old and young, and the children had 
got to know us very well and used to teach us their 
language, and we taught them our Luganda ; and they 
were just like our own relations, which they truly were 
in heart. A great many people in their kindness never 
arrive at this stage, as some despise those who look 
different from themselves ; but these people and many 
others we saw in other places were kind with true kind- 
ness of heart. 

When we got into London we first went to see my 
surgical boot, and then went on with Dr. B. W. Walker, 

173 



\D10it to tbe IRatural 1btetor$ flfcuseum 173 

the brother of Archdeacon Walker, to see a lady called 
Mrs. Lamb, who was very kind to us and took us all 
over her house, which was six stories high. We then 
went to Dr. Walker's house, and found there Mr. E. 
Millar and Archdeacon Walker's father, a very old 
man, eighty-two years of age, but still very strong. 

After lunch we went to see the house of the dead 
animals, which is called the Natural History Museum ; 
you have heard of the number of animals there 
are in it, when I went there before alone with Dr. 
B. W. Walker. I had told the Katikiro about it, and so 
he was very pleased that we should go there together, 
so that we could talk to one another about what we 
saw. We saw a very great number of animals, and 
birds, and fishes, and creeping things, and rocks and 
trees, and types of various nations. They collect there 
skulls of many races from all over the earth to show 
the difference between the various races. We went 
home with Archdeacon Walker's father by the railway 
that goes under the ground, and we saw how active he 
still was, since we got tired of walking about before he 
did. When we reached the Westminster Palace Hotel 
we had tea with Dr. B. W. Walker and his father, and 
they then went home. 

The next day, July 29th, we went to buy the things 
which we wanted to take back to Uganda ; Dr. 
B. W. Walker went with us, and helped us very 
much in choosing the best things to buy, as our friend 



i?4 Uoaitoa'6 1\atihiro in England 

Mr. Millar had gone to the dentist. After lunch Mr. 
Doggett came to see us ; his son had gone to Uganda 
to catch wild animals, but he did not catch any 
perhaps he found them too wild; I expect he will be 
more successful another time. 

After Mr. Doggett had gone we went out again with 
Dr. Walker to buy the things we wanted, and later on in 
the day our friend the Rev. E. C. Gordon came to visit us, 
and slept in the hotel, and we talked a long time to him, 
and helped him in his translation of a book of Uganda 
folk-lore. We stayed up with him till very late, for he 
knows our language very well indeed, and so we stayed 
a long time talking to him. 

The next day, July 3Oth, we went on buying our things 
for Uganda ; there were four of us in all, Apolo Katikiro, 
Revs. E. Millar and E. C. Gordon, and Ham Mukasa, 
and we met Dr. Walker on the way, and went to a shop 
where they sell tools, and bought a great many things 
which we wanted. 

After this we went to the " Houses of Parliament," which 
is the house of the kingdom of England where all matters 
are discussed that keep the country in order, the house 
where the great council meets. We met there Sir Ben- 
jamin Stone, of Birmingham, who had invited us to lunch, 
and photographed us at the door of the Houses of Parlia- 
ment which looks out on the River Thames, which is 
quite close, only about twelve feet off ; he first photo- 
graphed the Katikiro only, and then the Katikiro and 



1bou0e0 of parliament 175 

Ham Mukasa, and then all three of us. While we were at 
lunch he said to us, "I want to take you all round 
this place, and show you the chief house of our kingdom, 
and the pictures of the great men of old and the ancient 
kings who worked for this country." When we heard 
this we were very glad indeed to think we were going 
all over this building, because it is held in high honour 
all over the land of England which is ruled from it. 

He took us into a great many places. We first went 
into a very large room indeed, as large as the space 
in front of the enclosure of a Muganda chief, and then 
went into the hall of the rulers who ruled in old times, 
and where all their pictures are kept; under each 
picture they write the name of the man and the office 
he held. After this we went into the courtyard outside, 
and saw the River Thames quite close by. We then 
went over many other parts of the building, and passed 
through the hall of pictures, and reached a long passage 
in which they put rebels who refuse to learn to be peace- 
able they take photographs of them all, and put them 
there as a reminder ; we then reached the room where 
the great chiefs leave their umbrellas and macintoshes 
and hats each man puts his name on the peg on which 
he hangs his things. We then reached the Parliament 
Hall itself, where they sit to discuss matters of the 
State, and we looked all round it and saw the seats, 
three rows on each side, and five seats in each row ; all 
the seats are together ; they are not separated, but are 



176 TH0niftA'0 Ikatilmo in 



like those in a school, except that of the judge who sums 
up the matters, which is between them and facing the 
KIIIL; if lu- is present, but if he is absent it faces away 
from the King's throne, since the King is not there himself 
if the King is present, it is not possible to turn one's back 
on him. 

Behind the judge there is a table for the men who 
write down all that is settled, and behind the writers there 
are three rows of low seats, and above these they put the 
seats of the ladies, the wives of the great lords, who may 
want to come and listen to what is settled in the Parliament 
of their country. The throne of the head of the people, 
the King, is right in the centre, and that of the Prince of 
Wales on the right side, and that of another prince or the 
Queen Consort on the left ; in front of the King's throne 
they put an iron railing, at which the children of the lords 
stand when they come to the Parliament. Well, I have 
told you all about this building. 

There is also a robing chamber, and a hall in which the 
King meets the princes who greet him on his way into 
Parliament ; the wives of the lords have also their hall 
where they greet the King on his way in. After this 
we went to the other side of the building and saw where 
they made King Charles stand the king whose head was 
cut off because he would not listen to the Parliament. 
We also saw where they beheaded him. We saw too a 
church underground in which they used to pray in old 
times, but which is not now used for the following reason. 



of Xonfcon IReetaurants 177 

There was a rebellious murderer who wished to avenge 
himself on the rulers of the land, and brought some 
gunpowder done up in a cloth to destroy them ; but a 
policeman saw him with it, and went to seize him ; the 
man threw the gunpowder down and it caught fire, 
and as the policeman was carrying it out it burned him, 
and blew off his leg, and he died, and so up to the present 
they have given up using this church. After Sir Benjamin 
Stone had taken us so nicely all round, he said good-bye to 
us, and we went back home and rested awhile, and then 
went to Captain Hobart's, and stopped there till one 
o'clock in the morning, and then went back to the West- 
minster Palace Hotel, Victoria Street. 

The following day, July 3ist, we went on buying our 
things, because we could not buy them quickly, since we 
wanted to look at everything. In England it is hard to 
distinguish what is good and what is bad, as everything 
you see looks good. We went first to the house where 
they sell useful iron goods, and bought plates and kettles 
and cups, and many other things which we wanted. 
We then went to lunch in a house where they cook food 
for travellers ; not out of kindness you go with your 
cowrie-shells, and when you have finished eating, you go 
your way after giving them some of your cowrie-shells. 
They give you a small piece of paper, and on it is written 
the price you have to pay, and this is what you give them 
as you go out one can buy all kinds of food in these 
houses. 

12 



'0 fcatihiro in 

After lunch we went to see the building where they try 
cases in the City of London (Guildhall). We went all 
over it, and saw it all ; these English buildings are just 
like towns. We went into one room where they try cases, 
and found about forty people in it ; they were trying a 
case about a building in which a man refused to pay 
the builders the price they had arranged ; we could not 
understand the matter properly, as we only stayed a very 
short time. They behave very well in court, and do 
not all speak, but one man only speaks, and all the rest 
listen, and the judge himself writes down what he hears 
them plead. On our way home we passed a boot-shop 
and bought some boots, and then went to visit Captain 
Hobart, but did not find him at home ; we stayed a short 
time with his wife, and then went back to our hotel. 

On August ist we went on buying our goods, and then 
went to Mr. Burdett-Coutts ; he was selling about a 
hundred of his horses. When we arrived he first gave 
us lunch in a tent on the grass in one of his fields. There 
were about eighty people there, including three black 
men Apolo Katikiro, Ham Mukasa, and an Indian. 
After lunch we went to where they sold the horses. 
They build a rough house and put in it a great many 
seats for the buyers to sit on ; they build also a pulpit, on 
which the man stands who prices the horses ; this pulpit 
is high, so that the man's voice can carry well, and every 
one can hear. We sat on the seats which we found there, 
and they brought the horses, one at a time, and the price 



a 1bor$e Sale 179 

of each was stated, and the buyers bought it. English 
horses are very expensive indeed, and are worthy of 
England ; some horses were sold for 165, others for 
120, or 100, or 80, or 70, but this last was a very old 
one, and so was sold for so small a price as 70 or 1,050 
rupees you see how expensive English horses are ! 
We did not stop there very long, but went out by a 
back way, for one who is not a buyer should not stop 
where they are selling things ; and then we went to a 
shop where we bought clothes for our children, and then 
went home. 

In the evening the man who wanted to come to our 
country to plant bark-cloth trees came to see us, and asked 
us the best places for planting them, so that he might 
purchase the land or rent it ; however, letting a rich man 
rent one's land is the same thing as selling it all, unless 
one is very clever. After he had talked for some time 
he went away. Our tickets for the coronation arrived 
during the day. 

On August 2nd we went to choose a writing-desk for 
the Katikiro, as our friend Sir T. Fowell Buxton wished 
to give him one ; the Katikiro bought me a writing-desk 
also, for which he paid 7. After this we went to give 
the packers instructions as to how to send all our things 
to Uganda, and then went home, while our friend 
Mr. Millar went to the dentist. 

After he had returned we got ready to go and stop 
with Sir T. Fowell Buxton, and drove to Liverpool Street 



i8o THanba'0 "katilnro in 



>n and got into the train. At the end of our 
journey we found a carriage, and another kind o* 
called a motor-car, which was driven by gas that comes 
off from some clu-miral, and was a very clever thing ; 
however, we refused to go in it as it made so much dust, 
and so we got into the carriage, and arrived safely to 
find our friend awaiting us and tea ready. After tea 
he took us round his garden and over a new church 
which had just been built, but which was not quite 
finished and was a very nice one. He also took us 
over his stables, which were very fine indeed. It is 
hard to tell Baganda about England, because those 
who do not understand call all that one says absolute 
lies. If you tell the Baganda that in Uganda there 
is not a single nice house, even including those of the 
chiefs and of the Europeans such as they live in at the 
present time, though perhaps in a great many years 
there may be a house as good as those in which a rich 
Englishman would keep his horses those who hear 
you think you are telling lies. Those who think thus 
are not only the common people even the clever people 
and some of the chiefs think this also ; doubt and stupidity 
are not seen on the outside of a man like poverty and 
deformity, but are perceived in the words which express 
his thoughts, so that good words may come from a 
common man or a countryman, while a chief may appear 
to be a very fine man, but his words may be very bad 
indeed ; and he himself may not understand how very 




Pholo by C. W. Halleishy. 

INTERIOR OF THE CHURCH AT MITYANA. 

The pillars of which are formed of palm poles covered with polished reeds 
sewn on with strips of bark. 

[To face p. 180. 



\Di0it to Sir Jfowell Sujrton 181 

foolish his words are, and how they are not worthy of 
his position. Long ago, in the year 1894, Archdeacon 
Walker said to us, " You have not yet got in Uganda 
a house as good as those in which we in England keep 
our animals," and we all laughed, not because we dis- 
believed him, but because we saw how backward we 
were, though perhaps some may have laughed because 
they did not believe him. When I reached England, 
I remembered this, and saw far more than I had been 
told. 

After dinner Sir Powell Buxton showed us some 
of the things that had belonged to his ancestors, and 
Lady Buxton also showed us some other things, and 
the presents which the Queen had given her mother 
a bag for books and a lock of her hair, which is now 
treasured up. Lady Victoria Buxton's mother used 
to wait on Queen Victoria just after she was married, 
and Queen Victoria had been Lady Buxton's god-mother 
at her baptism, as she was the daughter of her beloved 
lady-in-waiting. The following were the presents which 
she had given her a fine cap, a silk bag which the 
Queen had worked with her own hands, a picture of the 
Prince Consort, and many other things. Lady Buxton 
had a glass box in which she kept all these things, and 
in which we saw them ; but she took them out and showed 
them to us because she was so kind, though she does 
not show them thus to other people. After this we 
went to our rooms. This house was as large as a castle, 



182 1H0ant>a'0 Itatihirc in 

though it is all one building. The ancestors of Sir T. 
Powell Buxton brought in a law to free the people in 
all lands from slavery ; therefore they should be always 
remembered, since they freed us all from slavery. 

The next morning, Sunday, August 3rd, we all went 
to church to a place about three miles off that is, as 
far as from Nakasero to Kabowa. Apolo Katikiro, Sir 
Powell Buxton, and the Rev. E. Millarwent in one carriage, 
and eight of us went in another ; we found a great 
many people at the church who had come to look at 
us and our clothing, which was of a kind they had not 
seen. The church was eight hundred years old, and 
thus it was a very old one. On the way home we got out 
of the carriage, and Sir Powell Buxton took us through 
the park to see the trees, and we stayed in the courtyard 
some time and looked at a thing the children play on 
(a see-saw). After lunch we went to see our host's eldest 
son, who does not live with his father, but has his own 
house very near, and has four children. He took us all 
over his estate and showed us the stables, in which he 
had nine fine horses, and we had tea with him and then 
went to church at five o'clock, where Mr. Millar preached. 

After dinner we talked about a great many things, 
and the Katikiro asked Sir Powell Buxton how many 
members there were in the House of Commons, and 
he told him there were 646 ; and we asked if even 
young people could sit there, and he said that they 
could do so if their fathers were dead and they had 



3nten>iew wttb %orb IRoeeber^ 183 

come into the property, and they sat there to hear 
what was debated, so that they could take their share 
in the work when they had grown up. 1 

The next morning, August 4th, we said good-bye to 
Sir Fowell Buxton and drove to the railway station, 
a distance of three and a half miles, and took the train 
to London ; we left at 10.35 an( i reached London at 11.35, 
a distance about as great as from Mengo to Kinakulya 
(fifty miles) though it only took us an hour. After we 
reached our hotel old Mr. Walker and Dr. Walker 
came to say good-bye to us ; they were going away 
to a part of the country called Wales, as at this time 
of the year in England all the people on the first Monday 
in August go off into the country, and all the shops are 
shut and do not sell anything ; only the very small shops 
are open. 

The next morning, August 5th, we again went out 
shopping. On our return we were asked to go and see 
the Earl of Rosebery he is the man who settled to 
make the British Protectorate over Uganda ; and our 
friend Sir Harry Johnston came round himself to ask 
us to go and see him, as he wished to see us. Sir 
Harry Johnston told us how Lord Rosebery, when he 
was Foreign Minister, settled to make the Uganda 
Protectorate, and what a nice man he was, and how 
some day he might be Prime Minister again. 

1 The author has confused this with what had been told him by 
Sir Benjamin Stone about the House of Lords. 



f ik.uihiro in 

After lunch we went to see Lord Rosebery, and he took 
us all through two rooms in his house, and made us sit 
down in the third, and asked us how things were going 
on in Uganda, and how many soldiers were guarding 
the country. He asked the Katikiro if he was the tallest 
man in Uganda, and he told him that he was taller than 
many others, but that there were others taller than he 
was. He asked this question because he had read in some 
book written by an Englishman that there were no tall 
men in Uganda except the Katikiro, though this is not 
true at all ; those who do not travel about the country 
have many falsehoods told them about the country, 
and perhaps the man who wrote this described the short 
men whom he had first come across, and never saw any 
others. 

Lord Rosebery also asked us how old our King was, 
and we told him that he was six years old ; he asked 
if he would be a wise man, and we said that he 
would. The Katikiro told him how the King was trying 
to learn English, and knew all the English salutations. 
He asked also if our King would be crowned like the 
King of England, and the Katikiro said that he would be 
crowned when he reached the age of eighteen. He 
also asked us what most astonished us in England, and 
we told him that it was the number of the people, and the 
large houses, and fine streets, and the speed of the railway 
trains. After this he took us all over his house, which 
was very beautiful and very large, and when we saw 



Dinner witb tbe <5uart>0 185 

this house we understood that the great men of England 
and the rich men do not want kingdoms such as the 
kingdoms in our countries, because many kings have 
none of the comfort which these men have. After we 
had been all round the house, Lord Rosebery asked his 
daughter to come and see us, and we then went home 
and rested a little while. 

In the evening we went to dine with the soldiers who 
guard the palace of the King ; the officer who asked us 
to dine with them was Captain Hobart, D.S.O. who had 
been in Budu, Uganda, and whom the people called Pati. 
We drove there in Captain Hobart's carriage, which he 
sent for us, and found a great many men in their fine 
Guards' uniforms, and during dinner they told us about 
the coronation. After dinner we waited a short time, 
and then went home to the Westminster Palace Hotel. 

The next morning, August 6th, we went to see the 
soldiers who guard the King changing places with others, 
who took their turn on guard. First of all one set of 
soldiers came and drilled a little, and then some others 
came ; there were also eight men on horses and a two- 
horse carriage (these had come from Buckingham Palace 
to get used to the soldiers in readiness for the coronation) ; 
the soldiers blew twenty-two bugles, and played on ten 
flutes and nine drums and four cymbals, and all played 
one tune together which had a good swing to it. Captain 
Hobart called the captain of the guard who was to relieve 
him, and introduced him to us ; he was a very tall man, 



186 iiganta'0 itatiluro in nolnni> 

taller than the Katikiro. After the band had played 
four tunes the two guards said good-bye to one another, 
and those who were relieved went home as their turn was 
over, and Captain Hobart said good-bye to us and went 
away too, and we went home, and rested. 

After a short while we went to see Sir Clement Hill, 
whom we found in his room in the Foreign Office of 
Africa, and talked to him about many things, and told 
him what was going on in Uganda ; and he told us 
what we ought to do to help forward our country, and 
asked us what astonished us in England, and we told 
him the speed of the trains, and the numbers of the 
people, and the high houses that were like mountains 
and the precipices which are on mountains. He said 
to us, " Work hard at cultivation and at learning every- 
thing that brings money to your country " ; he also said, 
" Although our country is a very fine one and you praise 
it very much, and it is a very rich country, yet it was 
not so at first ; we were like you are once, or even worse 
off, and you too if you work hard will be like we are 
now. It is no good being in too much of a hurry to 
learn, do not be in too great a hurry " ; he said also, 
11 The book which you are going to write telling about 
your travels, should be put into English, as a great 
many people will want to hear about all you have seen ; 
the Baganda and a great many English people, too, 
will be glad to read it " ; and we agreed to do as he had 
suggested. He also introduced us to some other officials 



Sir Clement IbiU's abvtce 187 

of the government the chief of the Treasury Depart- 
ment, and the chief of the Legal Department of the 
Foreign Office. He also told the Katikiro that the rifle 
which he was going to buy, and the printing-press, would 
be given to him as a present from the Government. We 
were very pleased indeed to hear this, and went away 
to look at some rifles to see what sort of one we should 
buy ; and when we had chosen one we sent the bill to 
him, and went home. He told us also that we two, Apolo 
Katikiro and Ham Mukasa, were going to see the King 
on August 8th, and we were filled with joy, for it is a 
great thing with all people to see the King of the country 
face to face and talk with him. 



CHAPTER XIII 

Windsor Castle Garden-party at Mrs, Murdoch's (*4t Speke) How we 
aw the " Father of the Nation," King Edward VII. Tea with the 
Archbishop of Canterbury at Lambeth Palace The coronation 

THE next day, August 7th, we went to Windsor to see 
what the King's other palace was like. We started 
from the station called Waterloo, and reached Windsor 
and went to the house of the teacher who is called Dean, 
and reads prayers for the King when he is at Windsor. 
We found he was still in church, but his daughter and 
her brother received us and welcomed us, and kept 
us occupied until their father came. When he arrived 
we talked to him for a short time, and he then handed 
us over to some one to show us all we wished to see. 
We first went into the great courtyard in front of the 
house, in which there is a little hill with a cannon on 
the top, and then entered the hall, where there were a 
large number of suits of the old armour men used to 
wear when they went to war iron coats, and old guns 
and flint-lock muskets ; we saw one gun which had 
seven barrels and only one trigger. These are the first 
kind of guns they made when they began to invent 
new ones breech-loading rifles came afterwards. 

1 88 



Windsor Castle 189 

We next went into a room in which were pictures 
of all the kings, and princes, and princesses, and great 
men ; there were also the skins of wild animals called 
bears that had been brought from other lands. This 
room was wonderfully fine ; everything in it was of gold 
gold chairs, and lamps of gold and precious stones. 
We saw there, too, a great many pictures the Queen 
being married to the Prince Consort, King Edward 
being baptised when he was a little child, etc. and 
many places where the King sits, and the chair upon 
which the Queen (Victoria) used to like to sit after 
dinner, which is in a long passage ; near it is a very 
small and beautiful table. We saw there also a table 
six hundred years old, the maker of which is unknown ; 
it was very fine and very cleverly made, and had a great 
many drawers in it, and the wood of it was like the 
wood we have in our country which we call " mutogo " ; 
it was quite as good as many of the tables that are made 
at the present time, though it was made in 1303 A.D. 

We saw also a very old book which had come from 
Abyssinia, the country which in old days was called 
Ethiopia, from whence came the eunuch whom Philip 
baptised, as we read in the Acts ; and also many other 
books which Queen Victoria read and which had been 
given to her by her friends. We saw also a most mar- 
vellous clock, which told the years and months and 
days of the week and seasons of the year, and the stars 
and the sun and moon in their courses ; there was also 



190 Tfl0aitfa'0 Ixfittlnro in 

a picture of all the earth, and all the changes \\ 
the earth goes through were gone through by this clock. 
We saw also in this place the finest road in the country, 
for it was three miles long and did not twist at all ; there 
is no such other road in all the earth like this, and though 
I have not been all over the world, yet this is what I 
think. At the end of it there is a small house, which 
is opposite to the King's palace of Windsor Castle, 
and when one looks down the road from Windsor it is 
a very fine sight. We saw too a picture of the present 
King Edward and another prince on horseback going 
along, and a picture of his mother, Queen Victoria, at 
one side of it. 

Windsor is the finest town in England, because there 
is no noise there, and it is on a hill. It is raised up 
like a pulpit, and there is a very good view from it in 
all directions ; there are some beautiful trees which are 
very fine to look at, and the grass also is beautiful. 
The hill which has the cannon on it is very high, 
and is in the courtyard of the King's palace ; there 
are policemen guarding the place very carefully, as their 
custom is to look after everything. 

Ras Makonnen, the Abyssinian chief, who is prime 
minister of his country, met us at Windsor, as he too 
was going round the castle. He had with him about 
ten companions, and an English guide who was taking 
him round, and we greeted one another as we met. 
After this we went to see where they bury all the English 



St (Beorge'e (Tbapel 

kings, and entered the church in which they bury them, 
and saw their graves, about sixty in number. We saw 
also the graves of great chiefs and brave men who 
have conquered other countries, and the graves of 
princes, and also many banners that told about each 
person. 

We saw too the grave of the King's eldest son he is 
buried in a very valuable stone, which had been hollowed 
out ; but we did not see where the Queen (Victoria) 
was buried, for they do not yet allow people to go 
there ; she is buried in the same place as her hus- 
band. After seeing all this we went back to the Deanery 
for lunch, and then went to see the sister of Captain 
Speke (who discovered Uganda), at the town called 
Wokingham. We found there a great many people, 
both ladies and gentlemen, though the ladies were more 
in number than the gentlemen. Sir H. H. Johnston 
was also there, and our friend Bishop Tucker. There 
was a great deal of talking, and we enjoyed our visit 
very much ; our hostess gave the Katikiro half-a-dozen 
china coffee-cups, and after we had had tea our photo- 
graphs were taken, and we then drove to the railway 
station and went back to London, where we arrived at 
8-35 P.m. 

The following day, August 8th, was the greatest day 
of our whole journey, because on it we saw the King. 
At half-past eight we saw a letter from Sir Clement Hill, 
which said 



192 Tflflantw'0 Itatihtro in 

11 DEAR MR. MILLAR, 

" I tell you that the Katikiro and Ham Mukasa 
will see the King at one o'clock, but you yourself cannot 
go; Captain Hobart will take them." 

When we heard this we were very joyful indeed, and 
got ready, because we had thought that we should only 
see the coronation, and should not see the King in his 
palace because he had been so ill, and nearly died, but 
God in His kindness heard the prayers of all the nation 
and healed him. We were therefore very glad for his 
sake, that he had not died, and for our own sakes, that 
we were going to see him. 

When the time arrived, Captain Hobart brought us 
a very fine carriage in which to drive to the palace, and 
we both got in, and drove to the great open space 
in front of the palace ; when we left this we went in by 
the main entrance to the King's courtyard, and into the 
inner court, which is in front of the palace and extends 
on each side of it. When we left this we arrived at the 
palace itself, and got out of our carriage at the door. 

We stepped right out of our carriage into the building, 
and the keepers of the door showed us in, and we walked 
through many passages and rooms, each room with a 
passage leading to it, and door-keepers to it, who stopped 
us at every door, asking us to wait while they announced 
us to the next door-keeper, and so we went on, each 
door-keeper announcing us to the next. Each room 
we entered we thought would be the one in which the 



tCbe jfatber of tbe flatten 193 

King would see us, though it was not so ; we found they 
took us on somewhere else. The building was most 
splendid ; each room was finer than the last, and every- 
where we went was most wonderful. There was one 
room in which they kept us waiting about ten minutes, and 
then they called us and took us along a very long passage 
into another room, through which we passed, and entered 
a very large room in which the King receives his ministers 
of state. We there met three great men, chiefs of the 
soldiers who guard the King's palace, and also Lord 
Lansdowne, who, after he had greeted us, went to 
announce us to the King, and then returned to take 
us in to the King's audience chamber, which was quite 
close to where we were. 

There was a very large door, which was covered with 
gold ; the whole palace was very magnificent, all the 
walls being covered with gold and mirrors, the space not 
filled by a mirror being covered with gold, except in 
the rooms which we had first entered the inner rooms 
were wonderfully fine. On one side of this great door 
was a looking-glass about 10 ft. high and 5 ft. wide, 
and we passed through it, Lord Lansdowne going first, 
and then the Katikiro and myself, and then Captain 
Hobart. When we passed through the door we saw 
the " Father of the Nation " sitting upon his throne, 
dressed in magnificent kingly raiment ; he bowed his head 
three times, and we did the same and bowed three times, 
and he then told the Katikiro to sit down, and he sat 

13 



194 Ifloaitfa'tJ Ixatlfuro in 



d\vn on a golden chair, while I and Captain Hobart 
stood up. 

The King asked the Katikiro, '* Do you like this country 
very much ? " and he replied, " It is a very fine country, 
and the work which is done in this country of yours 
is most wonderful. I am amazed at the houses and 
streets, and the people like locusts in numbers, and 
the railway trains which go marvellously fast ; a three 
months' journey on foot is done in eight hours by train." 
The King answered, ** Yes, that is true, these things are 
wonderful." The King then said, " I read about what is 
going on in your country, and hear about it, because a 
great many of the English people who have been there 
have written about it, and I have read what they have 
written about your country and what it is like." 

The Katikiro then thanked him for sending government 
officials to protect our country, and said how sorry 
he was that the King had been so ill. The King then said, 
** Come with me, and I will show you the presents which 
all the different nationalities have given me, and the things 
from Uganda which you yourself have given me." He 
then went out of the room, and the Katikiro followed 
him, and I and Captain Hobart followed, and we went 
into a small room where we found the things that had 
come from Ras Makonnen, the Prime Minister of Abyssinia, 
a sword and a helmet, and bracelets and a mat, and a 
belt and a golden cross, and many other things which 
he had given him. 



Gbe Iktng's presents 195 

The King thought our things were there also, and 
praised up everything, saying, " This is very fine," and 
** This is very fine," and took the different articles up 
in his hands to show them to us, though the things the 
Katikiro had given him were not there at all. As he 
was showing us these things Lord Lansdowne said to 
him, " Sire, bid farewell to your visitors, you will get tired, 
and to-morrow is the coronation " ; and the King listened 
to him, because in the court there are some people who 
can speak to the King. 

The King then stood up very straight when he stands 
up you would think he had not a joint in his body, because 
he straightens himself so nicely and we said good-bye 
to one another with our heads ; he bowed his head, and we 
all bowed our heads, and went out walking backwards, 
because one cannot turn one's back on the King, though 
when one has passed the doorway one can turn round and 
walk forwards. 

Let me tell you all about our interview. The following 
were present : The King, I ; Lord Lansdowne, 2 ; 
Apolo Katikiro, 3 ; an officer, 4 ; Captain Hobart, 5 ; 
Ham Mukasa, 6 ; a door-keeper who stood at the door, 7. 
Seven people in all were there when we saw King Edward 
VII. He had on a coat trimmed with ornaments of 
gold only, and a fine long sword, glittering shoes with 
spurs, short trousers of gold only, and a belt of gold ; 
he had nothing on his head ; his eyes were large and very 
fine. When he is amongst other men, there is no need 



THoaitoa'0 liatthtro in nolant> 

to ask, " Which is the prince ? " he can be seen at once 
to be of royal blood. He has a magnificent chest, which 
he throws out like a lion ; his voice rolls from it like that 
of a lion, as is the custom with princes. He has a very 
fine beard which is nearly white, and which adds to the 
majesty of his appearance ; his baldness also makes him 
look the finer, as baldness is becoming to large men, and 
is therefore very becoming to him. 

This is how we saw the King of England, Ed- 
ward VII., an extremely kind man, very kind to all 
his visitors. 

When we left his presence we went out through another 
door, which we had not passed before, and there we 
found the King's secretary, who wished us to write our 
names in the book of the King's guests. Captain Hobart 
said, " Go on, I will write your names." We did not 
like this at all, but we kept silence knowingly, and 
let the man who was in charge of us do as he wished, 
and he himself wrote down our names. 

We then got into our carriage and went back, and 
in front of the palace found a great many people who 
had come to see what we were like, as they had 
read in the newspaper that the Baganda would have 
an audience with the King at one o'clock, and therefore 
a large number, perhaps as many as forty thousand, 
had come together. We soon reached home, as the 
distance was only as great as from the gate of the King's 
palace in Mengo to the market-place, and when we 



IDfsit to tbe Hrcbbisbop of Canterbury 197 

arrived we told our friend Mr. Millar all we had seen, 
and how we had seen the King himself, and how he had 
made us very happy. 

After a short rest we went to see the Archbishop, 
who is over all the bishops in England, and is called 
the Archbishop of Canterbury. There were four of 
us who went Bishop A. R. Tucker, Apolo Katikiro, 
Rev. E. Millar, and Ham Mukasa and we reached the 
palace, which was a very large one ; the door-keeper 
announced us and the Archbishop sent his secretary 
to bring us in, and we found him and his wife sitting 
down ; he could not get up to greet us, as he was a very 
old man, but he welcomed us very warmly. There 
were five other bishops there also, and we all had tea 
together, and our bishop told him all about Uganda. 

After tea we went over the building, which was 
very old; the secretary, who showed us over it, was 
a very nice man indeed, and explained everything to 
us very kindly. We saw a room in which were the 
portraits of all the archbishops from the earliest times; 
we saw also the library, which contained books of all 
kinds, and the chapel, which is about eight hundred 
years old ; we saw too the chapel of Cranmer, a great 
and wise Christian man about whom you read in church 
history. We saw too the church in which all the bishops 
are consecrated, and in which are their portraits, and 
among them that of a black bishop. There are also 
many very ancient books, including a New Testament 



198 TH0antta'0 ftntihiro in 

whirh was translated from the German, and was forty 
years old, and the Koran, the book of the Muhammadans. 

After seeing all this we said good-bye and went back 
to our hotel, and after a short while the Katikiro went 
to dine with Sir Clement Hill ; we others went in there 
after dinner, and found the guests examining the skins 
and horns of many animals which he had collected. We 
there met Major Ternan, who had been the Acting 
Commissioner in our country, and many other people, 
and stayed a long time, and drank coffee standing up. 
After this we went home, Sir Clement Hill escorting 
us as far as the door of his house, and thus ended the 
greatest day of all the day on which we saw the King, 
and the day also on which we saw the Archbishop of 
Canterbury ; both these were great people, and I there- 
fore call it the greatest day of all, as it was like seeing 
the sun and the moon. 

The next morning was the great day of the coronation, 
and at eight o'clock we got ready to go to the church 
which is called " Abbey," where they were to crown the 
King. Our party consisted of Bishop Tucker, Apolo 
Katikiro, Rev. E. Millar, and Ham Mukasa, and we 
reached the church, each with his letter to show his 
place, and went in, and each one showed his letter 
that they might see the number of his seat ; the bishop 
left us at once and went to his place, but Mr. Millar 
went with us and gave us over to a policeman to show 
us to our places. They made us go up a staircase in 



Hugust 9tb Jn Westminster Hbbe$ 199 

the scaffolding which they had put up, with seats on it 
so that people could see everything, and there we found 
Captain Hobart, who took us to our places. Apolo's 
number was 197 and I was in seat No. 198, and we sat 
there and waited for the King to arrive. 

We waited two whole hours, which brought us to 
ten o'clock, and meanwhile all those who were invited 
came and sat in their places. A large crowd of singers 
came in, both boys, and men with deep voices, and went 
up into the gallery which is across the building, and 
under which was the road by which the King was to 
pass. There was also a large organ, and the choir brought 
their instruments, which are played with a stick held 
in the hands, like those of the Swahili coast men. The 
bishops and clergy came and got ready the Communion 
table, and then carried down the three crowns of honour, 
and the four golden sceptres, and a golden cross on a 
staff, and about four other staves of gold, and went 
with them to fetch in the King. 

The chiefs of counties then came in (peers) with their 
wives, but when they got into the centre the ladies 
went to the left and the men to the right. After this 
came a princess in great state with her ladies of dis- 
tinction, all wearing dresses with long trains which 
rustled greatly, and were carried by others behind 
who held them up ; these trains were about twelve feet 
long, and glistened very much. Those who bore the 
trains were magnificently dressed also ; the trains were 



200 TUaitfa's fontifctro in 



carried some by two people, some by four, and those of 
the ladies who were not so distinguished by only one 
person. 

After this some great soldiers arrived with ermine 
caps, and the Lord Mayor of London and many other 
distinguished people came, all walking very slowly. The 
choir sang very nicely some most beautiful hymns, accom- 
panied by the organ and violins and flutes and cymbals, 
and the band, all playing and singing together, so that 
one beat time with one's head and foot because the 
music was so lovely. The pages then came with the 
coronets they were carrying, and so we understood that 
the King was about to arrive. 

The Queen then entered ; they brought her in great 
state her train was carried by eight pages, four on each 
side, and they sang a hymn to welcome her, and all the 
men and women cheered and clapped their hands and 
bent down their heads to greet her, as is the way to greet 
kings. When she reached her chair she sat down, 
right in the centre, the King's chair being beside her. 
After this there entered the lords of great honour, who 
are like kings (Kings of Arms ?), the Lord Mayor of 
Ireland, and the Lord Mayor of Scotland, and the Marshal 
of London, England (Earl Marshal), also came, and then 
after a short interval the King between two bishops, 
one on his right, that of Canterbury, and one on his left, 
that of York, and the King between them, and they all 
walked very slowly indeed ; the King's train was carried 



ZTbe Coronation 201 

by eight pages, four on each side. When he reached 
the centre we all who were in the building cheered very 
much, and they played on all the instruments, the singers 
sang, the flutes were blown, they played the violins, 
and beat all the drums, and clapped the cymbals, and 
the people clapped their hands, and the whole building 
boiled over, and resounded, and vibrated, and he who had 
but one eye would have liked two, and he who had two 
would have liked four, that he might see better than he 
could with two, though of course you cannot add any 
part to the body that you have not got. 

When the King had sat on his chair he first prayed to 
God to give him strength in this great ceremony of taking 
possession of his country. After he had again sat down 
the work of the bishops began, and the Archbishop of 
Canterbury prayed ; after he had prayed he read the 
questions asking the King if he would rule aright, and 
the King replied as is the custom, and they brought a 
book for him to swear on, and the Archbishop made him 
swear, as all kings swear, and they brought him a pen to 
sign his name, and he did all these things. He then left 
the chair in which he had been sitting and went to that 
in which he was to be crowned and anointed with oil. 
This throne had a magnificent back to it, and ornaments 
of gold like doves. 

After they had sung a hymn he sat down and they 
anointed him, and the Archbishop prayed a short prayer ; 
they then brought the crown on a silken cushion, and the 



202 Tlltfanfra's fcatiliiro in Cn0lant> 

Archbishop took it in his hands and lifted it up, and 
asked saying, " This is the man whom we wish to ci 
as the King of this realm ; if any man has anything to say 
against it, let him speak " ; and when no one spoke 
he put the crown on the King's head. When he did this 
it was a wonderful sight, for each of the peers took his 
coronet in his hands and lifted it up, and when the crown 
rested on the head of the King they all put on their 
coronets, and cheered with a loud voice, and the electric 
lights were turned up all over the building and flashed 
out, and the organ, and violins, and flutes, and bugles, 
and drums all sounded, and the singers sang, and it was 
a marvellous thing, and one's hair stood on end on account 
of the exceeding great glory ! 

In the evening they lit lamps all over the city, and it 
was like daylight, and after dinner we went a journey 
of about two miles and a half. We first went in the 
railway that goes underground, and leaves the city above, 
and goes under the River Thames, leaving it above. 
There were an enormous number of people underground, 
like locusts in numbers, and they had there electric 
lamps burning day and night, but when we got above 
ground again (Cannon Street) and on to the roads, we 
were amazed at the number of people. 

You can understand the numbers when I tell you that 
the crowd nearly lifted the Katikiro off his feet, it was 
so thick and squeezed so hard. Mr. Charles Millar, 
the brother of the Rev. E. Millar, wanted to lift me up 



3Uumination$ 203 

on to his shoulders, for fear they should kill me, and told 
me how his wife had once been carried a long distance 
without touching the ground, and this was the reason 
he pitied me, and offered to carry me, but I refused. 
We reached home at II p.m., having been away three 
hours looking at the sights. The people were singing for 
joy as they went along, and playing about and shouting 
to one another, both great and small. They stopped all 
carriages along the roads and only allowed foot-passengers, 
because where carriages are allowed the people cannot 
walk comfortably. 



CHAPTER XIV 

Westminster Abbey St. Paul's Farewell to England Lord Salisbury 
Across France vid the Mount Cenis Rome Naples S.S. Konig 
" German kindness " Mediterranean Sea Portuguese rule and *""g* i ffi 
impartiality 

THE next day, August loth, was Sunday, and we went 
to the church called " Abbey," which is next to the 
church in which the King was crowned, but just as we 
were about to arrive we met people coming away, who 
said to us, " Do not go there, there is not room for a 
single person," and so we went to another church. 

When we came out it was raining heavily, and I and 
Sir John Kennaway (who was staying in the same hotel, 
and was with us) took refuge in the door of a shop ; but 
the Katikiro and Mr. Millar went right on, and when 
they got to the hotel Mr. Millar very kindly started back 
with two macintoshes for us, but he met us just as we 
had reached the hotel, and so he took them back. We 
had lunch with Sir John Kennaway, who all the time 
was asking the Katikiro about affairs in Uganda, and 
the Katikiro told him all about everything. After 
lunch Sir John Kennaway said, " Let us pray to God 



IDisttmg tbe Hbbeip 205 



together," and so we prayed to God in two languages, 
English and Luganda ; Sir John Kennaway first prayed 
in English, Mr. Millar interpreting it for us, and then 
the Katikiro prayed in Luganda, Mr. Millar interpreting 
it into English. After this Sir John Kennaway went 
away to his room in another part of the hotel as this 
hotel was very large and had about three hundred 
rooms in it. We then prepared for our journey, as 
there were only two days left before we were to leave 
London. 

The next day we went with Sir John Kennaway 
to see round the church in which the King had been 
crowned, because on the coronation day we were unable 
to see it properly. We saw everything, from the road 
by which the King entered right up to the thrones on 
which he and his consort sat ; we saw there a great 
many things, and we also met Bishop Welldon, who had 
been Bishop of Calcutta. We also met a man who 
knew about everything in the building (Canon 
Wilberforce), and he showed us all there was to be seen 
everywhere the doorways and the reasons for having 
them, and the tombs of the kings and the statues of 
those who were buried there, and the throne on which 
the King sits on great days the one he sits on first, 
and the one used afterwards when he is crowned. We 
saw also the golden dishes and spoons and cups and 
flagons and sceptres, and the cross which Ras Makonnen 
of Abyssinia gave the King the whole stem was of 



206 Uaitfa'a Itatihiro in 



gold, as was the cross itself, and this was carried before 
him when he came into the Abbey. All these things 
were of gold and of great price. We saw also a new 
door made for the King to escape in case of any danger, 
and then returned home, having seen everything well ; 
for on the coronation day we were unable to take in 
the glory of everything, because it would have been 
impossible for any one to have done so. 

After a short rest and lunch we went to St. Paul's 
Cathedral, and climbed up it. After we had gone up 
three hundred and sixty steps our friends said to us, 
" Go over there and listen you will hear what we say " ; 
and we went with one of our companions, and they 
spoke against the wall on one side of the dome and the 
voice went round and we heard it on the other side, 
just as one hears in a telephone. After this we went 
on up very high indeed, to the very top, and from thence 
we saw over the whole city. The houses looked like lumps 
of stone, and did not seem at all high ; the horses looked 
like fowls, and the people like mice ; we tried to see 
where the city ended but could not do so, even though 
we had gone up to such a height for this city is like 
a country; there are no hills that prevent one from 
getting a view, there is only the smoke from all the 
work that is being carried on. All the towns of the 
English are covered with smoke, owing to all the work 
that is being carried on in them. London is a town 
of low hills, like Busega and Natete; there are no 



<S>n the top of St. paul'0 207 

high hills in it, and the breadth of it is about twenty 
miles in some parts more and in some less. 

If it were not for the smoke in England, one would 
be able to see the country very well, both the houses 
and all the land, but the smoke hinders one from getting 
a good view. The Katikiro tried to get on to the roof 
(the ball), but the wind and giddiness drove him down 
again, and Mr. Millar tried, but did not stay long ; and 
then I tried and got to the top, and sat on the end of 
the ladder, but the wind deafened me and made my 
eyes smart, and so I came down to my friends, and we 
all went to the bottom, and got into our carriage and 
went off. 

Mr. Millar left us in the carriage while he went to see 
about our places in the train that was to take us to France ; 
but when he came back he told us he could not get us 
places to sleep in, but only seats to sit in, and we were 
unhappy at the thought of getting no sleep for four 
whole days. 

We then went back to the Westminster Palace Hotel, 
and Sir Clement Hill came and had dinner with us, 
and asked us about our country, and we told him what 
we could. After dinner he stayed a short time, and then 
went away after giving us some presents ; the Katikiro 
he gave a golden spoon like the one used for anointing 
the King, me he gave a very beautiful glass inkstand, 
and our King he gave a beautiful spoon with a picture 
of King Edward on it. The mother of Mr. Kitching, 



'0 fcatihiro in 

who teaches in Toro, also came to see us on that day, 
and brought her daughter with her. 

The next morning, August I2th, we did up our things 
and left at ten o'clock, and went to Victoria Station, 
and got into our railway carriage, and our great friend 
Sir Clement Hill found us there when he came to bid us 
farewell. You all know how very kind he is and how he 
came with Captain Hobart to greet us on our arrival. 
He gave us some maps of Uganda, and we waited a long 
while in the train, and then the engine whistled to say it 
was going off, and our friend said good-bye to us very 
kindly and left us, and the train started. 

As we went we were filled with amazement at seeing 
what London was like on that side, and how large it was. 
If in all the world there is another city larger than London 
they do not call it a city, but the gathering-place of the 
whole earth but there is no such city. Well, when 
we reached the end of it we came to a place where a 
man had built an enormous house (Temple of Jezreel, 
near Chatham), and said that the saints of God were 
to remain in this house to await their Lord's return to 
this earth ; but before he had finished it he died, because 
he had tried to do a thing which should not be talked 
about in that way. After we had seen this we went on, 
looking at the various towns we passed on our way ; 
we kept passing one after another ; there were a great 
many of them. 

We passed Canterbury, the seat of the Archbishop 



a Glimpse of ILorb Salisbury 209 

who is over all the Church, and they pointed out the 
Cathedral and his house, which are both together ; it 
was a very old building, perhaps eight hundred years 
old. After leaving Canterbury we reached Dover, the port 
for France, and it was at this port that I saw the Katikiro 
of England, Lord Salisbury, as he was on his way to 
Germany. He is a very large man, and extremely tall, 
taller than a great many tall men (he was standing on 
the footboard of the carriage, but the author did not 
perceive this) ; he is very old, perhaps eighty-two years 
of age, more or less. When his mother looks at him 
she must be very pleased, because he is a man of very 
great honour, and very wise every one praises his wisdom 
and his kindness ; and to him has been given all these 
gifts size, height, wisdom, and kindness. Well, are 
not all these things difficult to obtain in this world, and 
therefore I say that when his parents look at him they 
must be very pleased indeed. 

We got out of the train with all our things, and went 
on to a steamer which had a paddle on each side, and the 
Katikiro soon got unwell, because the sea was very unkind 
indeed to him, and so he would not eat any lunch, and 
Mr. Millar and I had it by ourselves. We soon reached 
Calais, the French landing-place. The sea is twenty- 
five miles across, and the journey takes a little over an 
hour, because the boats go very fast indeed. 

We left Calais at four o'clock, and got into the train 
for Paris, the capital of France, and as we went we looked 

14 



210 'Uflairta's 1<atihtro in n0Umft 



at their country, which is a very nice one; there is no smoke 
like there is in England. We arrived at Paris at < 
o'clock, and saw all the lamps and the wide streets, 
which are nicer than those of England ; but they are not 
crowded like the English streets, where the people are 
like locusts in numbers if you went no farther than 
Paris you would not think there was any larger town, 
though really there is London. 

We met there our friend Mr. Charles Millar, who knows 
French very well, and helped us to get carriages, and to 
get food, and to get into the train again. After dinner, 
at about ten o'clock, our train came in, and we got into 
our sleeping-car and our friend Mr. Charles Millar said 
good-bye to us in the train, after he had helped us in 
every way he could. We travelled all that night, and 
the next morning the train was still going. We did not 
pass Marseilles, but went more to the north, and went 
by land past Rome ; when dawn came we were at a 
place called Chambery. 

When day broke on August I3th we went along 
looking at the country to see what France was like. 
When you cross their boundary you get into Italy, 
the country of the Romans; but on this side the 
country has some very high hills in it, and is stony, 
and not so nice as the country round Paris and 
Calais. We passed through a hill called Mount Cenis, 
through which they have made a hole to get to the other 
side. It is a wonderful piece of work, and makes one 



IRome 211 

marvel at the cleverness of the Europeans. We were 
thirty-five minutes inside this hill, right underground. 
You know how fast a train goes, a mile every minute ; 
but here the train went slowly, perhaps a mile in two 
minutes ; and although we went like this, still it is a 
marvellous thing to tunnel hills in this way. 

After we had come out of the hill we reached a town 
of the Romans called Turin, which is a very large town, 
and has three hills in it ; the houses are built as we 
build in Uganda, at some distance apart, and not close 
together as in other towns. After this we passed through 
many other places, and at night reached a town called 
Genoa. 

Daybreak on August I4th found us nearing the city 
of Rome, where the King himself lives, who used to be 
known to all men in the whole world and called Caesar ; 
but now he has long since lost his great distinction, 
and has not the strength of old times, but rules over his 
own land, because the European nations have so arranged 
it. If it were not so, one of the more powerful nations, 
the English, or the French, or the Germans, would rule 
over him ; but he rules because they have arranged 
that every king should rule over his own land. 

At eight o'clock in the morning we reached Rome, 
and wondered at the ancient things we saw the old 
walls, the ancient roads, and the forts on the hills. The 
town of Rome is on flat ground ; though there are hills 
on each side, yet it is flat between them. We waited 



212 ll(janw'0 fcatihiro in 

two hours, and got out of the train and had break; 
we also saw some soldiers wearing an old-fashioned dress 
such as you see always in pictures helmets of iron and 
swords, and coats with trimming down the back like 
those of servants in England or France. After breakfast 
we left the city, and as we went along we saw many 
ancient things the forts on the hills, the ancient 
gateways, and a very ancient aqueduct which is still 
standing ; it looks like a bridge, but is extremely 
long. 

We saw also the King's palace, and the Pope's cathedral 
and his house. We did not go into these places, but only 
saw them from a distance, for they are seen clearly 
because there are no hills, and as we were on high 
ground we could see everything very well. The city 
stretches out to some distance on each side, and reaches 
up on to the hills. In Italy there are many mountains 
with snow on the top, but there are none in France 
or England. We were very much surprised, too, to see 
the way the high hills had been tunnelled, and passed 
through many of them the one mentioned above, that 
took us thirty-five minutes, and others which took us 
ten, six, five, four, three, two and a half minutes, and 
so on, every hill with a tunnel for the train to pass 
through, right up to Naples, which is on the sea coast, 
and near to which is the town that was destroyed by fire 
that came out of the mountain. 

When we reached Naples we left the train and went 



IReturn on a German Steamer 213 

to have lunch in a traveller's house where they sold 
food. We saw there a very large man, who was like a 
young hippopotamus ; in all respects he was like the child 
of a hippopotamus. 

After lunch we went out in a carriage and bought the 
things we needed, and then went to the landing-place, 
and they brought us a steamer, and we went on board 
to go to the ship which was to take us home. It was 
called the Konig, Hamburg. They showed us where 
we were to sleep, and we sat down on deck, and slept on 
board. 

The next morning, August I5th, we left Naples, and 
on that day we understood the difference between the 
customs of different races of Europeans. In all European 
countries there is no race nearly so kind as the English, 
because of all the English from Uganda onwards I only 
saw one who was not kind to us, and where he was there 
was another man who acted up to their good repute, 
although his companion did not try to help us, and was 
perhaps an Englishman in body but not in heart. Well, 
from Uganda to Mombasa we met with kindness only, and 
from Mombasa on the sea in the ship Nevasa, Glasgow, 
we met with only kindness as far as Aden ; then from 
Aden onwards in the ship Manora, Glasgow, the captain 
took us safely to Marseilles, and we met with kindness only, 
and in England all the gentlemen and common people, 
and men, women, and children, right up to the King 
himself, were always kind to us. 



214 lloairtw'e Itatthtro in 



But on the day we entered the German steamer we 
saw the enormous difference there was. \\V11, let me 
tell you about it ; when we entered the German 
they showed their disgust in every way, and treated 
us like dogs, and tormented us ; they refused to allow 
us to eat at the same table, because we were black men ; 
they refused to clean my boots, and to give me water 
to wash my face ; they refused to give me tea in the 
morning ; they refused to show me where the bath- 
room was ; they made me sleep in the hospital but 
there was a good reason for this, as my cabin was occu- 
pied by a married couple. If we asked them to do any- 
thing for us they did not reply ; in all these things we 
found the English kind, and saw they made no difference 
on account of our despised race, and we praised the 
kindness of the English to every man. I pray earnestly 
to God for them that their kindness may spread over all 
the lands which they rule, as the light of the sun shines 
over the whole world, and together with the rain brings 
the fruits of the earth to perfection ; and also, that in 
their government they may never depart from God, who 
supplies what is lacking. 

I also prayed that God would make the Germans 
who were on the boat kind, so that they should not 
be nasty to us ; and to make some of them friendly 
with us, so that they could help us in our ignorance ; 
and that though we were foolish in their sight, they 
might help us on account of our ignorance ; and that 



(Berman IRufcenese 215 

because we had paid the money for our passage, and 
were not given a free passage, they should see that it 
was not right to refuse to give us the food we needed, 
when we had paid for it. All this I refused to tell Mr. 
Millar, because I did not want to be always troubling 
him. 

One day they only gave the Katikiro a very little 
food, although he was very hungry, and on this day 
we saw the chief man of the boat, Captain Zemlin, 
and talked a little to him because he knew English 
well, but he did not stop long with us. The Germans 
paid no attention at all to Mr. Millar, their fellow 
white man. I myself tried very hard to be friendly 
with the stewards, that they might wait on me kindly, 
but they would not be friendly, and looked down- 
wards when they saw me. Seeing this I gave up the 
attempt. 

The next day the sea was quite calm, and we entered 
the Mediterranean Sea, which St. Paul was taken through 
on his way to Rome. The Katikiro was not ill, as there 
was no wind and so we had calm weather, and I managed 
to persuade two German boys, who knew English, to 
make friends with me, and we talked a long time to 
them every day. The way the Germans get drunk 
is terrible ; they were always quarrelling with one 
another. I saw also there a Swede, who talked to us 
of most disgusting and unspeakable things, and I begged 
him to leave off talking in such a disgusting way; I 



'0 fcatifttro in 

never saw any European who could talk in such a 
way, and even a black man would have been ashamed 
of himself. On this ship there were men of many 
nations English, French, Portuguese, Greeks, Italians, 
Boers, Baganda and Nyasaland people, nine languages 
in all, and the whole number of passengers was about 
eighty. 

The next day, August i7th, we reached Crete an 
island known to St. Paul and where he left Titus and 
saw what it was like, and how very large it was. We 
reached it at midday and left it behind at 9 p.m. ; 
well, when you wonder at hearing that our steamer 
would only take a day from Entebbe to Kisumu, you 
can imagine how large the island was when it took us 
nine hours to pass it. We went close to it and saw 
the villages on the side nearest us, but they were only 
small, the largest ones being on the other side ; the 
hills are all bare, and are like the hills at Aden ; perhaps 
there is grass inland, but we could not see any, we 
could only see some things like creepers at the bottom 
of the hills. 

After passing Crete we entered the Sea of Cyprus, 
which reaches to Port Said, the port in Egypt at the 
entrance to the Suez Canal, and the sea was rough for 
a short time, but soon quieted down again ; but the 
waves came into the ship, and even though these ships 
are very strong and large, yet the sea is stronger, and 
we were amazed at its strength, for our ship was a very 



from flDosambtque 217 

large one of seven stories from the keel to the top. Our 
Uganda canoes on this sea would look like plantain stems, 
and be as weak, for one cannot see any islands on these 
open seas, and the whole way from Mombasa to Aden, 
a journey of seven days, one sees no island at all except 
Cape Guardafui, the cape on the Somali coast, which 
you see on the sixth day. 

The following morning, August i8th, found us in the 
Sea of Cyprus, where the wind was fairly strong, but 
soon quieted down, and I came across a black boy from 
Mozambique, on the River Zambezi, who was on his way 
back from England, with an Englishman called Mr. 
D. Macdonald, who had taken him there. Mr. Macdonald 
was a very nice man, and we thought him very kind 
to have taken this boy to England and paid his passage 
for him. I made great friends with the boy, and asked 
him a great many questions about his country, and he 
told me a great many things about it and the way they 
dressed, and built their houses, and cultivated their land, 
and the kind of food they ate in their country. He 
also told me that they had had a king who used to smoke 
bhang (Indian hemp) and get drunk, and made friends 
with other bhang smokers, and wanted to fight against 
the Europeans, though he could not really do so. How- 
ever, he was afterwards turned out, and a wise man was 
chosen instead. 

He told me also how his people were governed, and 
said that the English were very kind and ruled very well, 



2i 8 TH0atfta'0 Itatilriro in nolan& 



but other Europeans called Portuguese ruled very badly 
and put to death people who were not deserving of death, 
and beat and imprisoned others without any trial, 
sold people, just as if they were not a European nation. 
The English, however, were very kind, and settled t 
matter very carefully ; when he said this I saw he was 
speaking the truth. He told me too that the Portuguese 
wanted him to work for them because he knew their 
language, but he refused, even though they offered 
him high wages, and said he would always serve the 
English. I was pleased at this, because the English 
are careful in all they do, and have no favouritism in 
judging cases, but judge all men alike; chiefs and 
common people, kings and princes, rich and poor, great 
and small, men and women, are all judged fairly and 
uprightly, and the judges take care to make no 
mistakes, and therefore all we black peoples like the 
English. I asked this boy his name, and he told 
me it was Muchekdon, of Mozambique, on the River 
Zambezi, and I told him that my name was Ham 
Mukasa. 

I also made friends with an English boy called Norman 
Reid, who was born at the Cape in a town called Lady- 
smith, where the English fought with the Boers. He 
had been to England on a visit with his father, who was 
a Scotchman, and I talked to him a little ; but he was 
an unruly boy, and not like English children, who are 
brought up carefully ; he would not obey his father or 



Sbtp acquaintances 219 

his mother, and was not afraid of any one, and soon 
took a dislike to me because I told him he ought to 
obey his parents ; so I made friends with another boy 
called Gerald Arnold, who had been born in Natal, in 
South Africa. 



CHAPTER XV 

Port Said The Red Sea German drinking customs Hot weather Perim 
Island Aden The Somali* Rough weather German cookery Tanga 



THE next morning, August igth, we were in the Mediter- 
ranean Sea, which reaches to Port Said, at which place 
we arrived at half-past seven, and stayed there some 
time while they were taking coal on board, because we 
had used up our supply. When we saw that we should 
stop there for some time we left the ship, and went on 
shore to see what the town was like. The houses are like 
European houses, and there were carriages, both large 
and small, but nothing like the enormous number of 
them which there are in Europe, because the European 
carriages are like locusts, in London and in Paris. 

We walked about the town, which is quite flat ; if an 
earthquake were to shake the earth with great force, 
perhaps the sea would destroy it, for it would be shaken 
up by the earthquake, and so would overflow the town. 
The sea is on both sides, and the ground between is 
quite flat like a table. 

We went back on board at half -past eleven, and the 
Egyptian boatman caught hold of Mr. Millar and demanded 



Ht port Sato 221 

more pay, although he had already paid him for the boat 
which had brought us off from the shore. Still, he wanted 
more than his rightful fare, and Mr. Millar refused to 
give it him, and so he seized him by the leg as he was 
going up the ladder on to the ship, and tried to throw 
him into the water ; and we were very much surprised 
to see the insolence of the Egyptians in not respecting 
Europeans. 

We saw also two clever men ; one of them conjured 
with a great many things. He swallowed a whole egg 
and brought it out of his forehead, and pulled a chicken 
in pieces and it came to life again, and also put a chicken 
and some eggs into a glass thing and made them pass 
into a man, and then took them out again ; and we could 
not see how he did all these things so cleverly. The 
other man dived for coins which people threw into the 
water, and brought them up from the bottom. 

At twelve o'clock we left Port Said, and entered the 
channel called the Suez Canal, which has been cut out, 
and through which ships pass very slowly, so as not 
to bring down the sand from the banks and lessen the 
depth of the canal. This sand gives a great deal of 
trouble ; they are always digging it out. I cannot 
tell you about the machines that dig out the sand 
they are very clever indeed. In the canal a ship takes 
about six minutes and a half in travelling a distance 
of one mile. We passed a large ship called Oriental, 
Greenock, which had perhaps come from India, as there 



222 THant>a'0 1<atifctro in 



were many Indians on board ; we passed it when we 
had gone a distance of about forty-seven miles, and 
there were still forty more to do, since the canal is 
eighty-seven miles long. We got out of the way of it 
and tied our ship to the bank till it had got past, as 
the custom when ships meet in the canal. 

We spent all night in the canal, and got to Suez at 
about six o'clock in the morning, and stopped there for 
nearly an hour and took on some passengers and their 
goods ; and then entered the Red Sea which the 
Israelites crossed, and came to the place where Pharaoh 
and his host perished, and got a view of the wells and 
a great many palm-trees on the Arabian shore, where 
the Israelites encamped after they had crossed. 

The sea is very narrow here, about as wide as from 
Gaba to Kisinsi, and you are about sixteen hours before 
you lose sight of the land on both sides ; we also saw 
Mount Sinai in the clouds, and how large a mountain 
it is. All the hills on the shores of the Red Sea are 
bare of grass and seem to be only rocks, though they 
are really covered with earth. 

I saw here how the Germans and the Portuguese get 
drunk. They have a band, with four bugles and live 
flutes and two drums and five violins, and all these 
together play one tune ; and the dancers dance, and 
the singers sing, and the man who sells drink collects 
tumblers of drink and takes them round on a large plate, 
and goes in and out among the people. They sell the 



Brunfcen passengers 223 

drink and do not give it away, and those who want to 
buy it go on doing so all night and do not go to sleep ; 
if a fool who drinks goes on board a German boat he 
comes off it without a single farthing, because they go 
on buying drink and drinking it all night. A ship, you 
remember, is like a town, and has streets and passages, 
and all that you would require in a town you can get 
on board ship ; both good things and bad things are 
there, and also the most evil amusements. 

In English ships, however, I never saw anything at 
all like this. These ships have large rooms in them, 
each containing from seventy-five to a hundred seats ; 
is it not an amazing thing for a ship to be like a house ? 
All the ships of the Europeans are like this, and none 
of us can despise a European, though they despise one 
another; and the chief nation of them all the head of 
all in ships is the English nation. 

The next morning, August 2ist, found us in the middle 
of the Red Sea and out of sight of land, and there was 
no wind ; but the heat is as bad as a wind, for it often 
kills Europeans, and at night they all sleep on deck 
without any covering over them. When you sweat, 
you sweat like a man being baked in an oven, your 
sweat is so great. Some Europeans played a 
game which consisted in tying their legs in pairs and 
running round the houses in the centre of the boat, 
while others sat reading their books, each one the book 
he wished, whether it was the Word of God or a book 



224 TflQanfca'e 1<atihtro in 



of travels like this one, as a traveller is always anxious 
to hear what other lands are like, so that if he go i 
he will know all about it. If he be a preacher of the 
Gospel he wants to hear what is being done, and if he 
be a trader he wants to hear if the things he wants are 
in the country. 

The heat of this sea begins at Naples and comes along 
with you gradually as far as Egypt, and goes on through 
the Red Sea to Aden, and then to Mombasa and Zan- 
zibar; but its birthplace at Aden in Arabia is too awful 
for words ! 

The next day, August 22nd, found us still in the Red 
Sea. I tell you, my friends, England is a hard place to 
go to, day after day on the sea. We passed five ships 
during the day. The stewards fought among themselves 
when they were very drunk indeed, because the Germans 
are not quiet people they are most lawless, and I never 
saw on an English vessel the disgraceful and outrageous 
behaviour which goes on on German vessels. If ever 
any of you want to go to Europe, you had better go on 
an English vessel, but one cannot always get one. When 
you are fording a bad stream you may have to catch hold 
of thorns for want of anything else ; the Germans are the 
thorns, and the bad stream is the time of your journey 
corresponding with the time of departure of a German 
steamer. I saw two English ships, the Nevasa, Glasgow, 
and the Manora, Glasgow, and their officers and servants 
were all excellent. 



f>erim 225 

In this sea the Katikiro slept on deck, but I slept 
below in my room. I used to pour a great deal of water 
on the floor, which was made of stone and very firm, 
but in five hours it would all have dried up, and I would 
have to put down more. I used to cover up the window 
and the door, and put out of the window the thing 
that brought in the air, and slept like this, because I 
did not want to have disputes with the people who were 
walking about on deck. 

The following morning, August 23rd, we were still on 
that very great sea ; when the sun sets on this sea all 
the clouds become red, and so does the mist ; perhaps 
this is the reason it is called the Red Sea. We passed 
some ships going homewards. All our passengers were 
drowsy, and slept most of the day, owing to the heat ; 
none of them walked about they were too tired, and 
very weak, and I saw how much the heat was to be feared. 
Soon after three o'clock we began to see signs of land, 
and at about six o'clock saw an island, the first thing 
one sees on the way out from England, and passed it after 
dark. 

On August 24th we were still in the Red Sea, and at 
eleven o'clock we passed the island of Perim, which is 
near Aden and is strongly fortified by the English. The 
island is like Aden in having no grass on it, and the 
food for the people on it has to be brought from India, 
and Egypt, and Europe. We were told that we should 
reach Aden at eight o'clock in the evening ; we first caught 



226 THoanba'0 fvatibiro in 

sight of it at half-past seven, and saw the lights shining 
like the stars in the Great Bear. 

Aden is a large place, about six or seven miles long, 
and runs along the sea-shore, and on the tops of the hills 
are the forts of the soldiers, and the cannon that protect 
all the sea. When we got near Aden our band began to 
play, and we were very pleased with ourselves for having 
such a good band. They began playing a long way off, 
and played until we reached the harbour ; we passed 
a ship on the way, and when the band was quiet its 
passengers dapped their hands to applaud the music. 
When we reached our anchorage the band played three 
tunes, and then the anchor was let down, and a great many 
Somali boats came all round the ship on both sides, to 
sell food and other things, and to take off any passengers 
who wanted to go ashore. These Somalis were not at 
all afraid of Europeans, but came on board the ship, 
and even though the Germans struck them and kicked 
them, they paid no attention to them, and I was amazed 
to see that the Somalis were regardless of all authority, 
and had hearts as obstinate as mules. 

At nine o'clock we went ashore to look for our friend 
Mr. Hattersley, because we had heard in England that 
he had been very ill at Aden and at death's door, and so 
we wanted to find him. After searching for a while, 
we reached the hospital in which he had been, and the 
doctor told us that he had been so ill for a week that he 
was not expected to recover, but that he had left for 



(Bate of Europe" 227 

England ten days before. We were very pleased to hear 
this, and thanked God very much for restoring our friend 
to health, because he had taught our country to do arith- 
metic, and to send the children to school to be taught 
reading, writing, and arithmetic. 

When we left the hospital the Somalis brought us 
carriages to ride in, and begged us to get in, but we 
preferred to walk, because we had been a long time on 
the boat, where we could not walk about ; but the Somalis 
followed us, begging us to get into their carriages. 

On reaching the landing-place we got into a boat, 
and went back on board covered with perspiration ; 
all the Katikiro's clothes were soaking wet. At night 
all the Europeans slept in their chairs on account of the 
great heat of Aden, and the Katikiro slept in his chair ; 
but I slept in my cabin, and poured water over the floor, 
and opened the port-hole and put out the windsail, 
and so I got cool and slept well. We had some lemonade 
on shore and on the boat, and it was as sweet to us as 
its mother's milk is to an infant. 

Aden and the islands in the middle of the Red Sea 
are like a door of iron, because the Gulf of Aden is like 
the main gate of all Europe. I think that if there is a 
great war in Europe between the different European 
powers, when the English who are in the fort of Aden 
close the door no other European will get through. 
The commander of Aden is like the king of the earth, 
for he is the door-keeper of all Europe, and when 



228 THoai^a'0 fcatthiro in 

he closes the door many will cry out, because the road 
past Aden is blocked, and that is the reason I say he 
is like a king. 

We left Aden at eight o'clock on August 25th, the 
band playing all the time we were in the harbour, and 
entered the Sea of Guardafui the cape at the corner 
of Somaliland ; and at night it was very windy and 
extremely hot, so that none of the passengers could 
sleep in their cabins, but all came on deck. I brought 
up the Katikiro's bedding and arranged it for him, 
and left him asleep, and then went to my cabin ; and 
soon after the sea became quiet by the kindness of 
God. 

At night I noticed the poverty of the Somalis ; they 
all slept in their clothes just as they were, both old and 
young, and had nothing to cover themselves with. 

On the morning of August 26th we reached Cape 
Guardafui at eleven o'clock, and in the afternoon the 
sea became very rough, and the waves came on board, 
and I was very frightened at the size of them, and their 
power, which enabled them to get on board a ship as 
large as an island, and to toss it about just as our canoes 
are tossed about on our lake. 

A great sea requires large boats, and a small sea small 
boats. I saw that a great many people could not eat 
anything, and were constantly sea-sick through the 
motion of the boat. I myself looked for some place to 
sit in, but could not find one ; they brought me food, 



IRougb Meatber 229 

but I refused to eat it, as I was afraid of being ill, and I 
hoped to be able to eat something the next morning. 
This continued till night. 

The next morning, August 27th, found us still in the 
Indian Ocean, and the bad weather continued all day 
and all night, and a great many of the passengers were 
sea-sick, and were just like people who were very ill 
indeed. After breakfast I went to see the Katikiro, 
who told me how he had slept and how ill he had been, 
and that he could not eat anything. The storm was 
very severe and some of the supports of the awning were 
broken, and a great many of the passengers did not 
leave their cabins ; at last all the awnings were taken 
down, and this showed us how bad the storm was. I 
was very glad that I was not always sea-sick myself, 
when I saw how ill most of the passengers were. 

The next morning, August 28th, at nine o'clock, 
they brought me a little food, and some meat that smelt 
very strong, and two soft-boiled eggs, and I forced myself 
to eat a little, but soon afterwards the sea conquered me 
and I was sea-sick ; and this was the only time I was 
sea-sick during the whole journey. When I told the 
Katikiro that I had been ill, he said that he was glad 
that I had been sick, because now he had a companion 
in misery. He himself was ill three times and could not 
keep anything down, and many of the passengers could 
not eat anything ; Mr. Millar himself was very nearly 
sick, but he is a very good sailor. 



230 THoanfca'0 Itatifciro in 

There were many good sailors on board, who played 
at games, and ran races, and had pillow-fights. They 
took a pole and tied it up crossways, and two men 
sat on it as one would on a cow ; each man had a pillow 
with which he struck at his friend, and these pillows 
were very soft so that they did not hurt one another. 
The man who could keep his balance and knock his friend 
over was the conqueror. 

On this day all the pipes on the steamer were ex- 
amined, and water was pumped into it (fire drill), and 
we saw how the sailors, who do not fear the sea, prepare 
for any great danger. We saw too how they get all 
the boats ready. 

We watched the waves breaking over the ship, and 
were afraid that they would break it, and called upon 
God continually to take care of us. 

The following day, August 2Qth, the sea was rougher 
than ever, and we were continually eating a little food ; 
but the food of the Germans is very bad indeed some 
of it smells very nasty ; all their meat smells, and is not 
at all nice to eat. One should never go by a German 
boat if he can get an English one ; they are to be 
avoided. At five o'clock they had some sports. They 
put up some nets in two places, and ran and climbed 
over them, and then ran round all the houses in the 
centre of the boat, and came to a tank which had 
in it water up to the waist, and all ran through this, 
and the first man to arrive at the winning-post was the 



(Serman " IRufffanism " 231 

conqueror. The sailors raced first, and then the Somalis 
and some Europeans. 

They next tied some people up so that their hands 
and feet came together; they tied them to sticks and 
then they fought with their feet while their hands were 
tied (cock-fighting), and the one who turned the other 
over was the winner. Mr. Millar entered for this, but 
was beaten, and we were very sorry. 

In these sports we saw the ruffianism of the Germans ; 
they played just like children, and quarrelled with one 
another all the time. Some of them abused the English 
in the games, and I was amazed to see the abusiveness 
of the Germans ; the men were abusive, and the women 
were abusive, and no one rebuked another. We were 
very much surprised to see that no one tried to stop this 
abuse, but that they were all like children ; we were 
afraid of them, because they were quarrelling every 
day among themselves. We ourselves were just like 
prisoners in our fear of being struck by them : we saw 
one German who three times wanted to strike the Katikiro 
for no reason whatever; he found me standing to one 
side, and pushed me out of the way, though I was a 
long way away from him, and altogether showed himself 
to be like a ruffian. 

We were afraid of telling Mr. Millar all these things, 
for we did not want to trouble him daily and hourly ; 
as while he was in England he had worked very hard 
indeed in making everything nice for us with every one. 



'0 luitthtro in 

The rain came down very heavily during the day, 
and we hoped that it would quiet the sea a little. The 
Katikiro was continually asking me how many more 
days we had on the sea, and I told him, as the sailors 
had told us when we would arrive. 

On August 30th the rain came down very heavily 
at eleven o'clock, and the sea became calm, and we got 
some peace. They went on with the games, having 
races round the houses in the centre of the boat, and 
taking oranges out of the hands of ladies, and running 
back to the starting-point, the one who got back first 
being the winner. At six o'clock they gave out that 
at seven there would be a gathering for pleasure, and 
we saw that it was going to be a great one, because they 
hung up numbers of flags and electric lamps, and got 
out a great many seats, and all dressed themselves 
very well. 

After dinner the band began to call together those 
who wanted to amuse themselves, and a great many 
people collected about three hundred in all and they 
began their amusement, the men and women taking hold 
of one another in pairs, a man and a woman, and going 
round together, jumping up and down, a most strange 
thing. I saw a man who had got himself up in every 
way like a woman, both in the way he talked and in the 
way he was dressed, and he had on flaxen hair which 
looked just like a woman's hair, and thus they amused 
themselves. I thought it was very wrong for a man 



Ganga 233 

and woman to hold on to one another and dance together ; 
these dances are like the bait which is on a fish-hook. 
However, each nation has its own customs, but I do not 
think every one approves of this custom. 

After this they read out the names of those who had 
won prizes in the games. The prizes were as follows : 
knives, cups, ostrich feathers, nice sticks, looking glasses, 
spoons, pens, and things of all kinds ; every one gave 
what he had as his tribute to the games. 

The next morning, August 3ist, I went to see the Kati- 
kiro at 8 a.m., but found him still asleep, and so I did 
not wake him, as he is usually a bad sleeper. I myself 
had a slight attack of fever. We were very glad to hear 
that they hoped to arrive the next morning at Tanga, a 
city of the Germans on the coast, like Entebbe is in our 
country. I asked how far it was from Aden to Zanzibar, 
and they told me it was 1,770 miles. It was rather 
chilly, and so the Katikiro moved his chair to the 
other side of the deck ; but I was afraid to go there, 
because it was not our usual place, and I was afraid of 
the Germans, who are not kind to any one who has not 
yet learned their customs, and do not tell them their 
mistakes quietly like the English, who, when they find 
any one in the wrong, tell him his mistake quietly. 
The Germans are very savage. 

On September ist we reached Tanga at about eight 
o'clock in the morning, and saw what it was like. An 
arm of the sea goes a long way inland, and the heavy 



's fcntifciro in 

seas cannot come there, since the channel is narrow, and 
not deep like the-sea. When we got into the harbour we 
saw the houses of the Europeans, which were very fine 
and were dose to the sea. They had planted a great 
many mango-trees, which from a distance looked like 
our cherry-trees, owing to their dark leaves ; there were 
also many cocoanut-trees, which looked like a forest 
of palms. When the ship had anchored, they brought 
a number of small boats alongside, and we went ashore 
to see what their town was like. We landed at a 
wooden pier which is at the end of the railway which 
the Germans began (to the Victoria Nyanza) but could 
not finish ; they have only done about forty miles of it. 

We passed the custom-house and went straight on, 
looking at the rows of houses which had been built 
and the nice trees which had been planted along the 
sides of the road. The native houses are very bad ; 
the Europeans and Indians have nice houses, but the 
Arabs and Swahilis have very bad ones. We saw what 
the market was like ; they sell in it all kinds of meat 
beef and goat mutton, and fish, and fowls and all kinds 
of vegetables plantains and sweet potatoes, bananas, 
Indian com, oranges, mangoes, and cocoanuts, and 
many other things for which we have no name in our 
language. There was a very deep well there, from 
which the water was drawn with a rope, which was 
wound up by a windlass. 

We then went back on board to go to Zanzibar, but 



pemba 235 

the ship was late in starting, owing to the numbers of 
Europeans who had come on board to see their friends. 
We started off at one o'clock, and looked at the various 
islands which we passed Pemba, which is a smaller 
island than Zanzibar, and other small islands near it, 
one of which was called Marukubi, and had on it some 
houses which used to belong to the Arabs, but Said 
Barghash had plundered them of all their goods for 
some reason which I was not told. 



CHAPTER XVI 

Zanzibar The Consul- Swahili huts " Mnari moja " Mbweni Kioagnl 
school Lunch with (General Rogers Characteristics of the English- 
Dinner with Captain Agnew Visit to the Sultan The Cathedral 

WE reached Zanzibar in the evening a journey of six 
hours from Tanga and saw the lights of the town, 
like stars in number ; and all the electric lights in the 
palace of Said Ali, the Sultan, which were very brilliant. 
We were just about to have dinner when Mr. Kestell- 
Cornish, who had been sent for us by the Consul, came 
to tell us that we would have dinner on shore ; so we 
collected our things and got into a boat, and were 
taken to the Consul's landing-stage, as the sea reaches 
right up to the Consulate. 

When we reached the Consul's house we found he had 
gone out, and so we went to our hotel, which was called 
the Africa Hotel, and were shown our rooms. When 
we were ready they summoned us to dinner, and we were 
given a table to ourselves Apolo Katikiro, Mr. Millar, 
and Ham Mukasa ; there were a good many other Euro- 
peans at another table by themselves. 

The next morning, September 2nd, after breakfast, 
we went to see the Consul, Mr. Basil Cave the repre- 

236 



237 

sentative of the Consul-General, who was away. Mr. 
Cave is a very kind man indeed, and asked us about 
our visit to England, and how we saw the King ; and we 
told him about all that we saw, because he was a very 
nice man, like all the English, and a true-born English- 
man in his nature, and not one to be disowned, and 
his ways and his words were those of a true gentleman ; 
a very clever man, who speaks slowly and asks questions 
worth asking. He spoke to us in Swahili, because he 
knows it very well indeed, and will know it still better. 
We asked him a great deal about Zanzibar, and he 
answered all our questions very nicely and kindly ; and 
we then went home, after he had promised to lend us 
a carriage to take us over the island of Zanzibar. 

The carriage came round at three o'clock, and we 
got into it with Mr. Venables, who had been asked by 
Mr. Cave to show us round the island ; the horses were 
very fine ones and very strong, and the driver had 
on the Sultan's livery, which was very fine ; we drove 
out about six miles, and saw the way the Swahilis culti- 
vated, and the kind of food they ate, and what their 
houses and roads were like. The people are very poverty- 
stricken and live in wretched houses, which they thatch 
with palm-leaves, and have not much food, as many 
of them do not know how to cultivate. Their culti- 
vation is like that of the people of the Sese Islands, 
in our country of Uganda, and the various kinds of 
trees which they have take the place of their fields (in 



238 T&Gairta'e 1<atifciro in 

providing them with food) ; but this is not the case with 
all the people. The fruit of the greater number of 
trees has already been pledged and sold to the Indians, 
for an Indian in a country of foolish people soon finishes 
it up and gets possession of it all, buying it slowly bit 
by bit. 

The houses of the Zanzibar peasants are like the 
houses of the Uganda goats ; and that is the reason 
I pity them so much, for they long ago saw the 
cleverness of the Europeans, but could not learn 
it for themselves, because they trusted in their own 
wisdom, though it was of no profit to them, since they 
never applied themselves to cultivation of the land 
and the building of houses, but were like strangers to 
the country ; and that is the reason I pity them, as 
their houses and their streets all smell very badly. 

Well, if Europeans have been so many years in their 
country, and they have not yet learned any better, 
when will they learn to build and cultivate their land 
properly ? They will be a very long time indeed in 
learning, because in their foolishness they think that their 
own wisdom is profitable to them, and despise that of 
the Europeans, which would be of real use. The streets 
in the town itself are very narrow and smell very 
badly, and are just like ours were nine years ago, though 
now our streets are clean and wide. I think that in about 
fifteen years we shall have in Uganda a town which will 
be larger and finer in every way than Zanzibar, because 



a 3Dirt\> ftown 239 

I think the Baganda want to leave behind the old things, 
and go after the new in everything which they learn, 
and they can pick out what will be useful. I myself 
am a Muganda, and I speak about what I know will 
take place. At Zanzibar, when one is on the water 
and looks at the town, it appears very fine indeed ; but 
when you get into it, the streets and the inside of all 
the Arabs' houses smell abominably, and the only houses 
that are nice inside and out are those of the Europeans 
and of the Sultan. The Sultan's palace is very fine 
indeed, just like an English country-house, and is the 
finest house in Zanzibar ; there is no other that nearly 
comes up to it, not even the house of the Consul-General, 
for that was originally only an Arab house. 

On our way home we went to see a lion and a tiger 
in cages, in a place called Victoria Gardens. 

Alidina Vissramu (the chief Indian trader in Uganda) 
paid us a visit in the morning, and offered to lend us 
his carriage to drive about in ; but we told him that the 
Sultan was going to lend us one of his royal carriages. 

On September 3rd, at noon, we went to lunch with the 
Consul ; we walked to his house, and found him waiting 
for us. He made us sit down in a room which looked out 
over the sea, and which had in it many beautiful things 
from all parts of the world, and also a large and very 
nice piano. The floor was covered with English mats, 
of the kind which we in our language call mattresses 
(carpets), and on the verandah which looked out over 



2 4 o Uoaitoa'a Itntifctro in 



the sea there was a screen of palm-leaves, beautifully 
made. 

We met there Mrs. Cave, the wife of the Consul, and 
also another important European, General Rogers, 
who is Regent to Said Ali, the Sultan. The Consul 
introduced them to us as is the custom in Europe, and 
they greeted us very warmly. Another man, Dr. Mackin- 
non, also came with his wife, and after we had greeted 
them we waited a short while, and then they told the 
ladies to go to the dining-table. We followed, and sat 
down to lunch, and as we ate we talked to them in Sw.ihili 
and English. I talked to Mrs. Mackinnon, who did not 
know Swahili ; she asked me all about England, and 
what we saw and what most astonished us. If you know 
a little of their language, the English ladies are very 
pleased indeed if you will talk with them. 

After lunch the Consul told the ladies to go away, 
and we men only remained and talked a little, and 
then the Consul said he would send us a carriage to take 
us out to Mbweni and Kiungani, and we went home to 
our hotel. 

At four o'clock our carriage arrived, and we drove 
out along the road called " Mnazi moja," which is praised 
very much as the finest road in the town, though it is 
not nearly as good as our road in Uganda, which goes 
to Munyonyo from the back of the King's palace, and 
which is very much finer. We reached Mbweni, and 
found there a lady called Miss Ward, who had come 



Cburcb Scboois at Zansibar 241 

from Hampstead, the place where Mr. Millar and Drs. 
A. R. and J. H. Cook were born, and the place which 
we chose as our resting-place from the noise and rush of 
England. It is a very pretty place, and the people who 
are born there are very kind indeed, and many mis- 
sionaries have gone out from there, and I praise it 
because its sons are so kind, and very clever indeed at 
everything. 

This lady, Miss Ward, showed us the church and the 
schools, and we met some ladies and English children 
in the courtyard amongst them the wife of the Gabunga 
(chief of the canoes, i.e. port officer) of Zanzibar. 

We next went to Kiungani, where our friend the Rev. 
Henry Wright Duta (chief native pastor in Uganda, 
and co-translator of the Luganda Bible) was trained. 
We found there a very kind European, who showed us 
the church, and schools and dormitories for the boys, 
and the dining-room. We also saw a number of the boys 
who had come there to be taught ; they came up to look 
at us, though they did not greet us perhaps it is not 
their custom. We were told that there were in all 
about sixty boys who had come there to be trained as 
teachers. 

The next morning we went out shopping, and then 
went to the judge to accuse a Swahili who had cheated 
the Katikiro (a year or more previously) of a thousand 
rupees. The judge asked us to describe the man, and 
we did so, and he said he would search for him, and we 

16 



242 1Il{jant>a'0 itntilnro in 

left Alidina Vissramu, our friend the Indian trader, to be 
the Katikiro's repres-ntati\v in tin- rn.it- 

After a short rest we went out to lunch with General 
Rogers, whose house was only about three minutes* 
walk from our hotel. We there met Major and Mrs. 
Raikes and Mr. Childe, and they all welcomed us, and 
after we had sat for a short time dinner was announced, 
and we went in, and had dinner, talking to one another 
in Swahili and English. General Rogers had dressed 
up his servants in very fine liveries, coats all covered 
with gold and beautifully white clothes, and we thought 
he was very kind indeed to dress his servants up thus 
in our honour. He is a very nice man, and knows 
Swahili very well, having come to Zanzibar in 1890 ; 
he has travelled a great deal up and down the coast, 
and knows it all well ; just now he is acting as 
guardian to the Sultan of Zanzibar. His house is so full 
of beautiful things from all lands, spears and horns and 
old swords and guns, that one cannot keep one's eyes 
away from looking at them. I was very sorry for him 
because he could not speak in comfort, as his arm was 
very painful, and he had to wear it in a sling, and the 
pain prevented him from speaking properly; but his 
joy for our sakes was like a second arm to him, so that 
he was not in such pain as usual. 

We were amazed at seeing how all the English every- 
where were alike in their habits, and I therefore think 
when I see any one of them who is not kind that he 



Ibigb praise for tbe Englfsb 243 

is not a true-born Englishman in his nature. There 
are two marks of the English nation, and when I 
see any one who has not these, I am in doubt whether 
or not he is a true Englishman ; these two things 
are kindness and bravery, and when I see any one who 
has not both these, I consider him one who would be 
disowned in England. Kindness is the mother and 
bravery is the father of their nation, and between these 
two is great wisdom, worthy of being sought after. If 
all nations were like the English, all the world would be 
at peace. I speak what is absolutely true, there is no 
particle of untruth in what I say ; I have no doubt 
at all of what I say about that nation. 

A short time after we had got home our carriage came 
round ; it had two horses in it, like those in which we 
travelled in England, and we went along the Sultan's 
road to the palace of Said Barghash at Chueni. It is 
a very fine building, and is built beyond an arm of the 
sea which is crossed by a bridge guarded by policemen. 
After we had seen all over it we returned home, looking 
about as we drove to see what the place was like, 
and what sort of houses there were, and how the people 
cultivated, and how they dressed and everything else. 
We went home by a different road from the one along 
which we had come. 

The inhabitants of Zanzibar praise it too much, and 
say it is the finest place on earth. 

In the evening we went to dinner with Captain Agnew, 



244 Uoanfra'3 Itntihiro in 

R.N.R., the Gabunga (port officer) of all the ships. We 
passed on the way the Sultan's palace, the electric lights 
in \vhu h were like suns, and on our arrival we were met 
by Captain Agnew and his wife and two children. Mrs. 
Agnew played to us on the piano, and the children sang 
and danced, and then both went to bed, and shortly 
afterwards we went in to dinner. The party consisted 
of Captain and Mrs. Agnew, Mr. J. A. Bailey, Rev. E. 
Millar, Apolo Katikiro, and Ham Mukasa, and after 
dinner Mrs. Agnew showed us some photographs, amongst 
others one of her brother who was drowned at sea with 
about four hundred others. 

After we had talked together for some time we went 
home, and on the way we examined the machinery that 
made the electric light in the Sultan's palace. Mr. 
Bailey very kindly went with us as far as the hotel ; 
he is a kind man, and very pleasant to talk to. 

At nine o'clock the next morning, September 5th, 
the Consul came to take us to see the Sultan, Said Ali, 
and we all drove to the palace, although it was raining 
very heavily indeed. When we arrived in front of the 
palace the carriage stopped, and the soldiers played the 
tune which is played to welcome great men, and all 
saluted, and we then entered the Sultan's palace and 
went upstairs. In the first room at the top of the stairs 
we were met by the Sultan and two of his attendants ; 
he was standing a little way apart from them, and first 
greeted the Consul, who then introduced us all to him, 



IDtett to tbe Sultan 245 

Apolo Katikiro, Rev. E. Millar, and Ham Mukasa, and 
he took each of us by the hand and then took us into 
the council chamber, in which he had left his councillors, 
and where we found many Arabs and Indians and Banyans 
and the head of each clan in Zanzibar, all of whom had 
come together to greet the Sultan's visitors. They were 
all beautifully dressed, each one in the dress of his own 
nation ; the Arabs had on their burnouses, and large 
turbans of fine coloured cloth, and daggers in their waist- 
belts as is their custom. 

We sat down, and the Sultan asked the Katikiro 
how things were going on in Uganda ; and he told him 
that he had been a month without receiving any letters, 
and so he did not know what was going on at the present 
time. The Sultan told us that he wished to come to 
Uganda, and we were very pleased, and told him what 
our country was like, and how we had very bad houses, 
only made of grass, and how we had not yet got our 
roads into order ; while they in Zanzibar had houses 
built of earth and fine buildings of stone. After we 
had stayed for about a quarter of an hour we said good- 
bye, and he accompanied us as far as the top of the stairs, 
and then went back, whilst we went downstairs, followed 
by the Arabs. 

The Sultan's palace is very fine and like the 
country-house of a rich Englishman. All the things 
in it were like the things one finds in an English house ; 
the chair of the Sultan, and that of the Commissioner, 



246 THoanfri'd 1\atifoiro in 



and that of the Regent, General Rogers, were all of 
gold. 

When we reached the courtyard in which were the 
soldiers, they played a tune to bid us farewell ; and 
we then got into our carriage and drove home. 

After a short time we went to visit an Arab who has 
a shop in our country, and whose house was near to our 
hotel. He welcomed us very kindly, and told us that 
the English were very much better than all the other 
European nations, and were much richer than all other 
nations, and governed all their colonies very well. 

His house was just like that of a European inside, 
and had large windows and things spread over the floor, 
and was quite clean, and had in it chairs and tables 
and easy chairs, just like a European house. He said, 
" I have travelled in a great many places, and see that 
keeping one's house clean and neat makes one live 
longer, and keeps one from being constantly ill ; and 
I therefore keep my house like that of a European, 
since the Arabs are not clean at all and are therefore 
always unwell." He gave us some coffee and sherbet, 
and a kind of flour mixed with butter, which the Kati- 
kiro would not eat ; but I took a little so as not to vex 
our host. 

If it were not for the prayer-mats you would not 
know that this man was an Arab, as all the furniture 
would lead you to think he was a European ; he has 
chairs and carpets, and pavements worked in designs, 



Catbefcral 247 

and tables and clocks, and in everything has tried 
to make his house like that of a European ; and were 
it not for the Muhammadan prayer-books and praying- 
mats you would not know he was an Arab. 

After a short rest at the hotel we drove to see the 
Cathedral at Mkunazini, which is the Cathedral of Zanzi- 
bar, just as the Cathedral at Namirembe (Uganda) is 
the Mengo Cathedral. The site on which it is built 
is the site of the old slave-market ; when Said Barghash 
was told to abolish slavery he did away with this market, 
and gave the site to the (Universities') Mission, and 
they built the Cathedral on it. The first bishop of 
Zanzibar was Bishop Tozer, who came out in 1864, 
but Bishop Steere built the Cathedral ; he began it 
on June 6th, 1873, and finished it in 1879. 

When we reached the Cathedral we found two ladies, 
Archdeacon Evans, and the storekeeper of the mission, 
and they took us all over the building, both inside and 
out. We climbed up on to the roof and got a view 
over the whole town, for the building is very high and 
far above all the other houses. 

We went over the hospital and nurses' house, both 
of which were very nice. In the hospital were many 
different kinds of people Swahilis, Arabs, Indians, 
Banyans, Somalis, etc. We bought some books which 
we wanted and then drove towards Chwaka, but turned 
back before we arrived there. 

The next day, September 6th, we went again to the 



248 IDkiaitfa'a 1<atifuro in 

law courts about the matter of the Swahili who had 
cheated the K.itikiro out of a thousand rupees, and 
obtained a warrant against him and gave it to our 
friend Alidina Vissramu. We next went to see the 
printing office where all the books in Zanzibar are 
printed, and which is called the *' Gazette Office " ; we 
then went to say good-bye to the Consul, and came back 
to the hotel for lunch. 

After lunch we packed up to go away, and they took 
all our things down to the sea-shore, and we followed them 
down to a place where there was a very large market, 
quite close to the Sultan's courtyard and to the prison. 
Our things were put into a boat, and we went off to the 
ship which was to take us to Mombasa, and which was 
called British India, B.I. They took on board all our 
goods and those of other passengers, and we sat and 
looked at the town of Zanzibar, which you can see very 
well from the sea, and which is a very fine town to look 
at. We saw a ship which had been sunk when the Arabs 
fought against the English (1896) in Zanzibar; only the 
masts are now visible, because the ship is at the bottom 
of the sea ; the Government are going to clear it away, 
as it prevents ships coming into the harbour properly ; 
it will perhaps cost 5,000 to do this. 

We waited a long time while they were still taking in 
cargo, and amused ourselves with some Somali divers, 
who dived after money thrown into the water ; the 
Katikiro threw in ten pice and I threw in three, and they 



farewell to Zansibar 

went down after them and found them, to our great 
surprise. A good many European passengers also threw 
in money for them. 

Captain Agnew, the port officer, came on board with 
Mr. Bailey and said good-bye to us, and then went 
ashore, and we remained with Mr. Bailey looking at 
Zanzibar through our glasses. Eight priests also came 
on board, under the leadership of Pere Bulesu, who had 
brought them out from Europe. He knows Luganda 
and English very well, and we stayed a long time talking 
to him and to Mr. Bailey, both of whom are kind men ; 
and even though one of them is a Frenchman, still he 
is very kind to the Baganda, and likes them very much. 
We left Zanzibar at about five o'clock in the evening, 
and it became dark as we were nearing Pemba Island. 



CHAPTER XVII 

MomhtM Mr. F. J. Jackson, C.B. English straightforwardness Turtle 
soup Kilindini Mombasa fort Lunch with Mr. Marsden Departure 
from Mombasa Derailments on the Uganda Railway Port Florence 
Reflections on the government of the English German "ruffians" 
Fable of the two fowls 

THE following morning, September 7th, we reached 
Mombasa at about eight o'clock, and our vessel blew 
its whistle to tell the people of Mombasa of its arrival, 
and we entered the narrow harbour where all the ships 
anchor. 

Our friend Mr. D. J. Wilson, who had met us first at 
Mombasa Station on our arrival when we were going to 
England, came to take us off the ship, and brought us a 
boat to take us on shore, and when we landed we got on to 
trollies. Apolo Katikiro got on to one with Mr. Gilkison 
( Vice-Consul) and Mr. Millar, Mr. D. J. Wilson, and I, 
Ham Mukasa, got on to another, and we were pushed 
up to the house called the Grand Hotel, which is a very 
large house as African houses go, but would be a very 
inferior one in England. When we reached the hotel 
they showed us our rooms, and we then had breakfast. 

At four o'clock in the afternoon we went to see Mr. 

350 



, ff. 3. Jacfcson 251 

F. J. Jackson, the Deputy Commissioner of Mombasa, 
a very old friend of ours who is well known in Uganda, 
and a very brave man in war. 

We walked to his house, which was the official residence 
of all the commissioners, a very fine stone house, roofed 
with corrugated iron and three stories high. It is built 
in an excellent situation, and has a view of all the ships 
that come to the harbour, whether by day or night, 
as it has near it a tower with a light on it which 
can be seen from a great distance. The house is very 
well furnished, with carpets, and tables, and chairs, and 
many other things to look at, such as all European 
houses have in them ; but although it is called the 
Commissioner's residence, yet it is only like an English 
country-house. 

When we arrived Mr. Jackson himself got up and met 
us at the door, and welcomed us and made us sit down, 
and introduced his secretary and his nephew to us, 
and also introduced us to the wife of Mr. Gedge, who 
came to Uganda a long time ago together with Mr. 
Jackson. This lady asked the Katikiro all about England, 
and he told her a great deal about all he had seen, and 
she was very pleased, and asked him, " What did you 
think of the sea ? " and he shook his head and said, 
" It was terrible," because he was very much afraid of the 
sea, not from mere fright, but because it made him very 
ill and sea-sick. After this we went to church, as it was 
Sunday, and then went home. 



252 TJUjanfra's 1\atihiro in 

We received a large number of letters from Uganda 
and read them : some brought good news, and some 
bad ; a great many people had died of sleeping-sickness, 
and many were very ill. We heard that the Government 
were going to turn about a hundred chiefs and peasants 
out of their estates, which were in the neighbourhood 
of Kampala, and that a chief called Kikojo was going 
to be turned out of his estates near Entebbe ; and we 
were very much afraid, because a promise had been 
made that some of these people should not be turned 
out, and they were being turned out after all ! This 
frightened us very much, as we thought that per- 
haps other treaties would be in the same way broken ; 
but after all everything ended satisfactorily, for when 
they saw that a great many people were angry, and 
that both great and small, chiefs and peasants, were 
very much troubled about it, the English did as they 
always do when they think they have done wrong, and 
the Commissioner, Colonel Sadler, refused to allow the 
arrangement, and it came to nothing. 

On September 8th, the following day, at eleven o'clock, 
we went to lunch with Mr. Jackson, the Deputy Com- 
missioner, and found him with Mr. Hollins and Mr. 
Archer, and another man called Mr. Lorimer, and also 
Mrs. Gedge ; and we sat and talked for a while and then 
went in to lunch. We had some turtle soup, and the 
Katikiro did not know what it was and drank it ; and 
then Mr. Millar asked him if the soup was nice, and 



"JMnspon" 253 

he said it was very nice indeed ; and Mr. Millar laughed 
and told him it was turtle soup, and he replied, " When 
one is on the war-path, one does not refuse anything." l 
After lunch we had some coffee, and talked about 
what we had seen in England, and about what was going 
on in Uganda, and what news our letters had brought 
us, and Mr. Jackson said he was sorry to hear we had 
not good news. 

After this we went back and explored the island 
of Mombasa. It is a small island and flat, like our 
island of Lulamba, but about as large as the island 
of Buvu, or a little smaller. 

In the evening we went to dinner with Mr. J. A. Bailey, 
and after dinner played a game called " Pingpon," 
which is played on a table with small round india-rubber 
balls, about the size of a fowl's egg ; we played two 
or three games and then went home. It was a very 
wet day, and Mr. Millar had a slight attack of fever. 

The next day, September gth, at eleven o'clock, we 
went to see what Kilindini was like. We were pushed 
across the island in trollies, and went down to the railway 
bridge between Mombasa and the mainland, and then 
went on to see where they store kerosene oil. They 
have two very large barrels of iron, into which they 

1 The author has confused this lunch with the one we had with 
the Lord Provost of Glasgow, at which we had turtle soup. At Mr. 
Marsden's, two days later, we had lobster salad ; hence the mistake. 
Turtles are not eaten by the Baganda. 



254 THflairta'0 Ixatifmo in 



pump the oil and store it up there till they require to 
draw it out. One of these barrels holds two hundred 
and fifty tons of the oil, and the other a hundred i 
We saw also a damaged steamer which they were mend- 
ing, and then came home very tired. I was just like 
a sick person, and my boots were making my feet burn, 
as they were too tight for me. The Katikiro was not 
tired, and we were both very glad to have seen what the 
island was like ; because a traveller ought to look round 
every place, so that he can tell his friends what other 
countries are like. 

After lunch we were taken to see the old Portuguese 
fort, which is very old, having been built by them 
in the year 1400 A.D. It is a very large place, and there 
are many ancient things in it cannon, and cannon-balls 
for these old cannon, which are like the stems of trees ; 
the cannon-balls are like stones in number, and are 
all thrown out in the courtyard as they are of no 
further use ; the fort has now been made into a prison 
by the English, and is a very strong place, and has 
many houses in it. 

We saw there a great many prisoners three of whom 
were Europeans and were engaged in caning chairs, 
while the others were doing other work. The prisoners 
are well looked after, and have good food and nice houses 
to sleep in. We saw also a very old well made by 
the Portuguese, which is in a house ; and when it 
rains the rain-water is collected in it, and so the people 



prieon 255 

in the fort get a supply of good water which lasts a 
long time. 

After this we wrote our names in the visitors' book, 
and then were shown photographs of the prisoners, 
which were very well taken. They register the 
prisoners very cleverly ; they first take photographs of 
them, and then write down the height of each man, 
and the size of his chest, and his colour, and his offence, 
and the length of his imprisonment, and the place he 
comes from, and his name and religion. All this they 
do to remind themselves about each man, so that when 
he commits another offence it is always known what 
he is like in every respect. 

I thoroughly approved of this, because it teaches us 
a spiritual lesson. If we men have the wisdom to mark 
criminals who offend against our human laws, how 
will it be with the Creator of heaven and earth ? Let 
us then take care that we have no marks of evil put on 
us, but only marks of good, because as we judge others 
we ourselves shall be judged. I put this in to remind 
the hearts of all of us who know God, and although 
this is a book about earthly matters, still this matter 
should be put into it, as it is like what we know ; it 
is not as if this book were written for those who knew 
nothing of God, but it is to be read by all of you who 
know God. 

Well, to continue our story. After leaving the fort 
we went to have tea with Boustead Ridley (Mr. R. N. 



256 Tfloatrta'0 "fcatiluro in 

Boustead), and tin -n went to see the Roman ( 
priests, and after that returned home, and Mr 
Semler, the pastor of the Frere Town Church, and tin- 
father-in-law of Mika Sematimba, came with his daughter 
to see us. 

The next day, September loth, we began getting ready 
for our journey to Uganda, as we hoped soon to be 
starting, and at twelve o'clock the Vice-Consul, Mr. 
Marsden, came with his trolley to fetch us to lunch 
with him ; the Liwali (chief judge) of Mombasa was also 
with him, and we went to his house and had lunch, 
and they asked us about England, and we told them 
of all we had seen. All Europeans are anxious to hear 
something new from every part of their land and other 
lands. 

The son of the Liwali of Mombasa was also there ; 
he knew English very well, because his father had sent 
him to England, and he had remained there for a year 
or two ; he can also write very well, and is now at work 
in the Mombasa Government offices. He in his turn 
has sent his son to England to be taught, and is going 
to leave him there eleven years, so that he may get very 
well educated. 

After lunch Mr. Marsden brought out his singing 
machine, which the English call a phonograph, but 
which we call a " talking machine," and it made us laugh 
very much, because you hear its voice, which is just 
like the voice of a real man, as you know yourselves if 



flfeombosa 257 

you have heard the phonograph which Mr. Millar brought 
to Uganda. After this we went home, because Mr. Marsden 
had a great deal of work to do, as he was the Vice-Consul, 
and we did not want to waste his time by sitting there 
talking. 

After this Mr. Millar and I went to see our friends 
at Frere Town, in accordance with a promise we had 
made, but Apolo Katikiro did not come as he was afraid 
of being sea-sick when crossing the harbour, and also 
he wished to get ready to go to Uganda. 

When we arrived at Frere Town we went to see the 
Rev. H. K. Binns and another missionary, and then 
went to the Rev. Ishmael Semler, the father-in-law of 
Mika Sematimba, and afterwards visited the ladie." 
of the mission, and then returned home. 

In the evening we went to Mr. Bailey's house, and there 
found twenty-five English people, who had come to hear 
about England and Uganda; there were also four 
native Christians from Mombasa. The Katikiro told 
them a great deal about England, and they were very 
pleased indeed, and laughed with joy. We then had 
prayers and went home. It was raining very heavily 
indeed, but Mr. Bailey very kindly saw us home to 
the Grand Hotel, as he is a very kind man, like all 
true Englishmen. 

The next morning we fastened up all our things, as 
the train which was to take us was on the way to fetch 
us, and arrived at twelve o'clock. We sent our things 

17 



258 Uflanta0 1\atil;iro in 

to the station, and Mr. Millar went with them to get 
them put into the train and then came back, and we 
had lunch. At one o'clock we went to the station ; we 
hoped soon to get to the end of our journey, and 
to arrive in Uganda in a few days three days in the 
train and two on the steamer, five in all, or perhaps 
six if there was any breakdown on the way. 

A great many of our friends, both English and Swahili, 
came to see us off, and when we got into the train we were 
very pleased indeed, just as if we could see Uganda 
with our eyes. I saw how very pleased Mr. Millar was ; 
he was nearly out of his senses with delight at being 
in the train that was to take us to Uganda. Though 
he had fever, yet the fever left him at once, and he sang 
some English songs we could not understand, and slapped 
his knees and my knees, and hit me on the scar of my 
wounded leg in his joy, and I was not vexed with him 
for doing so, because I was so pleased to see how happy 
he was. I, too, was very pleased, but my joy was very 
small compared to his. My joy was like that of a man 
who has discovered a silver mine, while Mr. Millar's 
was like that of a man who has discovered gold, and 
silver, and pearls, and precious stones. 

Among all the Europeans who go back to Europe 
I never saw any who were as pleased as this at going 
home to see their parents, and their beautiful country, 
and their relations ; and I was therefore very much 
surprised at seeing Mr. Millar as glad to get back to 



Gravelling bacfc to THgant>a 259 

our country as if he had been born there ; perhaps, 
though, there may have been some other reason which 
I did not know of. I think, however, that this was the 
true reason, as Mr. Millar is very fond indeed of the 
Baganda, and we were amazed at his not stopping in 
England to rest ; he was only there a few months 
with us, and came back again without having had 
any rest, or having seen his own relations and friends 
properly, as he was always busy over our business ; 
and therefore this that he did for us ought always to 
be remembered. 

As we went along in the train we looked at the coast 
scenery. They have put iron telegraph posts by the 
side of the line, and on these are iron plates, having 
on them the number of miles they are from the coast ; 
we thought this a very good idea, because you can see 
how far on the journey you have got, and how much 
remains to be travelled. The whole length of the railway 
is 580 miles. 

Night fell as we passed Maungu, and we went to sleep ; 
and the train went on all the while we were asleep. 
The things of the English are very nice ; it is pleasant 
to go to sleep in a boat that travels over land while 
those who are not engaged in working it can go to 
sleep. 

The next day, September I2th, we were in the train 
all day. We saw the magnificent bridges that had been 
made near the Kedong escarpment over the large 



260 llom^a'0 1<atihtro in 



nvtrs that had cut ravines out of the hillsides. 
Formerly they had a machine there that let the carriages 
up and down the hill by a rope made of iron, but 
they did away with it as every one was so frightened 
of it. 

The next morning, September I3th, near Lumbwa, 
we saw a train that had left the rails and had fallen 
into the valley ; there were no people in it, but only 
the bodies of two horses and three donkeys belonging 
to an Indian trader, and these smelt very badly indeed. 
At first we thought that there had been some people 
in the train ; but they told us that it was only some 
animals that had been killed. When we reached Fort 
Teraan we met a great many Baganda, and talked to 
them about England until ten o'clock at night, as they 
did not want us to leave off. 

The following morning, September I4th, after leaving 
Fort Ternan, we passed another train which had left 
the rails. The rain had been very heavy, and that is 
the reason the line got so much out of order and these 
accidents occurred ; and although it gets out of order, 
yet it is kept in good repair, because the engineers are 
very clever. To people who bridge seas and cut through 
mountains and go under lakes, is it a difficult matter 
to keep the line in repair ? There is no doubt that 
it will be made all right and sound. 

We arrived at Port Florence at two o'clock, and on 
arrival found there was no house in which we could 



<>n boarfc tbe "William flDacfcinncm" 261 

sleep ; so the Katikiro and I slept in the railway carriage, 
and had our meals in a small hotel. A great many 
Baganda collected together to hear about England, 
and we told them a great deal about it. Paulo Kawa- 
wulo, the chief man of the Baganda at Kisumu, gave 
us a present of a large goat, and we ate it. We saw 
too how they had begun to build a town at the terminus 
of the railway on Ugowe Bay (Kavirondo Bay). 

The next day, September I5th, after breakfast, we 
got ready our things, and they were taken down to 
the steamer William Mackinnon, and were put in 
charge of Mr. Brown, who used to be at Nakasero 
(Mengo), and he sent them on board ; but we ourselves 
stayed some time talking to our friends, and telling 
them about all we had seen in England, and when 
everybody else had gone on board we joined them. The 
passengers consisted of eight Europeans, about forty 
Indian soldiers, and four Goanese clerks. We were 
very much pleased with the kindness of the English, 
because the Consul-General at Zanzibar had telegraphed 
to Colonel Sadler, the Consul-General in Uganda, to 
tell him we were there, and to ask him to send the 
steamer for us ; and they sent it over quickly for 
our sakes, and we were very pleased to find it all ready 
for us when we reached Kisumu. 

We therefore praise the kindness of the English, because 
it is like the sun that ripens fruit ; they make a fool into 
a wise man, and do not like any one to do ill to his 



262 Utfanfra'9 Ikatihiro in Enfant* 

neighbour, but want peace everywhere. They are like 
the father of the nations of the earth in teaching habits 
of kindness, and were the first to abolish slavery in all 
lands, and the other European nations learned this 
from them ; though some have not yet given it up, such 
as the Portuguese. I say this because I saw a black 
boy with an Englishman, who had redeemed him for 
twenty pounds from the Portuguese, who were going to sell 
him. Well, see what the kindness of the English is like ! 
This man is now teaching the boy all kinds of things, 
so that when he has learned them all he can go anywhere 
in peace, and make his own living. Is not this man 
just like his real father in teaching him all these 
things ? 

What I myself think is this. Before the end of the 
world has come a great many people will leave the country 
of their birth and go to the lands ruled over by the English, 
because a great many other European nations rule very 
badly indeed, killing people for nothing, beating them 
before they have been tried, and confiscating their goods 
without cause. Other Europeans, seeing a man who 
should be rebuked only, beat him, and kill those who 
only deserve a beating. Is this not a terrible thing ? 
They say, " Killing a black man is nothing " ; but though 
they speak thus, their boasting is vain, and leads to 
destruction. A king who rules over a land should 
show his kindness to all men, as God does to every 
man; but a rule that does not follow the example set 



IReflections on European IRule 263 

by God endures but a short time. A kind king rules 
for many years, but a cruel king reigns but a short 
time. 

Look at God, the King of kings. He does not distin- 
guish between those over whom He rules, but gives to 
every kind of man happiness and peace and those things 
he requires wisdom, and the understanding of difficult 
matters. If God made a distinction between races, 
and chose one race and gave it all the things He now 
distributes to all races, who then on all the earth would 
have been wise, in the way that we now find wise men 
in all nations. No, there would have been no wise nation 
on the earth except the Jews, who are called the chosen 
people ; but God, not despising any man and being kind 
to all nations, enables them to obtain wisdom of all 
kinds, and above all to know the Words of Life, which 
some call foolishness, and trust in their own wisdom 
and make it their god, trusting in it more than they trust 
in God who gave it to them. 

Men like that, whether white or black, who trust their 
own wisdom, are like a man who trusts a rotten tooth ; 
but the energy of the English race gives wisdom to many 
nations, which before were foolish, and have now become 
wise ; and I therefore say that the English are greatly 
blessed for their kindness, for they work hard in'teaching 
all men the fear of God, and such wisdom as is suitable 
for them and is not evil, but helps men of every kind 
and of every nation, whether white or black. If you see 



264 ttgaifta'0 1<atilwo in 



a man who rules badly. >u< h .1 man is not a true English- 
man, oven though he were born of English par 
his evil habits show him to be of a different race. 

In our country of Uganda we have a saying that is 
said to insolent men, " Are you a German ? " meaning, 
" Are you a ruffian like a German ? " Because after the 
Germans had killed Romwa, the King of Buzinja, and also 
King Lukonge, and had killed a great many common people 
in their country who were not worthy of death, it began 
to be said to any vicious or drunken man, " Are you a 
German that you do this ? " since people do not think 
that the Germans are a Christian nation ; they say that 
in the German nation there is not a single Christian, 
but that it is an entirely heathen nation, although this 
is not really true. However, I have never yet heard any 
one say, " Are you a ruffian like an Englishman ? " No, 
never have I heard this ; no one ever says such a thing. 
The English are held in esteem in all things that are sold 
in our land, and every peasant going to buy anything 
in a shop asks, " Is this English ? " meaning, " Was 
this made by the English ? " and if they say yes, he is 
willing to buy it, because there are different qualities of 
things. There is English fine cotton sheeting, and English 
grey calico, and English gunpowder, and English guns ; 
and of all the things which I have mentioned, calling them 
English means that they were made by the English ; 
for all men in our country, be they chiefs or peasants, 
great or small, all buy English goods. 



ZTbe parable of tbe ftwo fowls 265 

If, however, you call the thing German, he just goes 
away home and will not buy it. Well, you see how every 
article tells about its maker, whether it is good or bad ; 
a thing made by a good man tells of the goodness of its 
maker, and the thing of a bad man tells of the badness 
of its maker. 

In the old days we did not look closely at the habits 
of the different Europeans, but their goods told about 
them, and what they were like, whether English or 
Germans. The habits of a good man are heard about 
far off, and those of a bad man likewise. We at first 
saw as in a mist, not seeing the people themselves ; but 
afterwards we reached their land and saw all that we had 
heard of, and more too, for the love they had for us 
was wonderful, and therefore I give my verdict that the 
English are the kindest nation on earth. 

Listen to this story. Once upon a time there were 
two men, and each of them obtained a fowl, and each 
looked after his fowl as he thought fit. The first thought 
about what he could best do for it, and said, " I do not 
want to eat all the eggs that my fowl lays ; I will eat just 
a few of them, and leave the others so as not to annby it ; 
and I shall not eat all the chickens which it will rear, 
but will eat a few, so that the number of my fowls will 
soon be very great." 

The other, however, said, " What is the use of a bird 
if it does not feed you ? " and so he ate up all its eggs, 
and only occasionally left a few, and then when the fowl 



266 IHonnfra's tkatiluro in 



reared chickens he ate them all up. When this fowl 
saw that the other had a great many young ones, because 
it was properly looked after by its master, it was very 
sorrowful, and made plans, and when it saw it was about 
to lay an egg, it jumped over to the house of the man 
who looked properly after his fowl. Now there was 
a law known to all in the town and throughout the land, 
that a fowl that left one man and went to another was 
not to be brought back by its original owner. Now 
when the owner of the fowl which had run away hunted 
for it, and found it at his friend's house, he asked for 
it, saying, " I wish to take back my fowl " ; but his friend 
replied, " I cannot give you the fowl, because there is 
a law known to all in the town and throughout the land, 
that the fowl of any man may not be fetched back, 
if it goes away to some one else." When the owner saw 
that he could not resist the law, he went back home 
sorrowing over his fowl ; but after a few months that 
fowl had a very large number of chickens, and was 
extremely happy. 

Well, the meaning of this story is this. The fowls 
are the inhabitants of the lands ruled over by European 
nations, and the owners of the fowls are the various 
European nations ; well, a great many people will leave 
the countries ruled over by other European nations, 
on account of their bad government, and go to the 
English and to the countries ruled over by them, in order 
that they may have peace. 



ZTbe pay Britannica 267 

In the lands ruled by the English, both men, and 
animals, and birds, all have peace ; with the exception of 
wild beasts, and evil men who do not want peace in the 
land ; such men are hostile to the English, and when they 
see the lands of the English, if they wish to do wrong, 
they do not remain in them, because the English wish all 
lands to increase in all useful knowledge which is good, 
and not evil. 

Then, again, where there is peace everything increases 
well ; both men, and cattle, and goats, and fowls, if they 
are at rest, increase well, and the land is quiet and settled. 
How can a ruler of a country like this fail to be pleased ? 
And how can the inhabitants also fail to be happy ? 
Thus all the rulers of the countries of the English are 
happy, and those who are ruled are happy also. 

I therefore pray that God's blessing may rest on the 
English, so that their land may protect other lands. 
I compare the rule of the English to the sun, and that of 
other European nations to the moon ; and as the light 
and glory of the moon are not equal to those of the sun, 
so the ruling and the power of other nations are not 
equal to that of those English. 

If any man could stand in the track of a railway 
train and stop it from passing him, or if he could run 
his head against a mountain and pass through it, such 
a man might check the power and glory of the English ; 
but such a thing is absolutely impossible. 

If the English were to boast of their power, their King 



268 Tfloaitfa'6 fcatihiro in 

would be worthy of being called Caesar, but they are 
gentle in all their dealings. 

At half-past six we anchored in the part of the lake 
called by us Magali (Kavirondo Bay), near Bunyoma. 
We had left Kisumu at half-past one, and so had been 
a voyage of five hours. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

On the lake Arrival at Munyonyo A great reception A triumphal 
progress Thanksgiving service in the Cathedral Reception at Kampala 
by the Deputy Commissioner Telling the story of our travels 

THE next day, September 6th, at half-past five in the 
morning, the captain ordered the anchor to be weighed, 
and we entered the part of the lake we called " Bwen- 
gula," which reaches as far as the island of Kama, 
and we had, by the blessing of God, a smooth journey 
without any storms ; had it been rough the Katikiro 
would have been very sea-sick. We passed Kama at 
half -past ten o'clock a journey of nine hours for our 
canoes from Magali ; an hour and a half later we 
passed Dolwe a journey of four and a half hours 
by canoe and at last reached Bugaya at a quarter 
past three in the afternoon a journey of nine or ten 
hours by our canoes, but only four hours in the 
steamer. 

See how hard it is to tell of the wonders of the English ! 
The journey from Magali to Bugaya that took us nine 
and a half hours in the steamer, takes our canoes four 

269 



'0 fcatifctro in England 

days. One is, therefore, very much astonished at the 
work of the English ; what used to be a long journey 
they make a short one, and what used to be difficult 
they make easy. You see how their industry goes 
hand-in-hand with their wisdom, and every year they 
invent wonderful new things ; were they lazy people, 
how could they do such wonders year by year ? No ; 
their cleverness and industry and inventive power 
year by year increase more and more as time goes 
on ; but industry is not their's alone, for in all 
countries every industrious man will not fail to find 
what he searches for, but a lazy man is always wanting 
things and never obtaining what he wants. 

When we reached Bugaya we were met by Luka 
Miyamba, the chief of the canoes at Munyonyo, who 
had been sent by the King to welcome us, and had 
also brought us our letters from Uganda, which we 
were very glad indeed to read. We also found there 
Nova Jumba Mbubi, and Muzito, the chief of Bugaya, 
who greeted us warmly. We inquired about the sleeping- 
sickness, and they told us that an enormous number 
of people had died from it on the islands ; and we were 
very sorry indeed. 

After this I told Jumba about what we had seen in 
England, and how we travelled through the country, 
and about all we saw there ; but more especially I told 
him about how we saw the great King, and what his 
palace and his attendants were like. All the Baganda 



Bn 3nMan Sorter's peril 271 

who were present, hearing this, shook their heads with 
amazement at what they heard. 

Later on some Indian soldiers, who had borrowed 
a canoe to go ashore, were returning on board, when 
one of them, as he was trying to get back, seized a rope 
near the stern, and the Bavuma paddlers took away the 
canoe, and he remained hanging because he had seized 
a rope at a place where he could not get on board. He 
shrieked very much, but in spite of his cries the Bavuma 
would not bring back the canoe to take him off, and he 
was nearly leaving go of the rope, when I went up and 
seized him to drag him on board. He said, " Leave 
me alone, I am a dead man ; I cannot get on board." 
I called for help, and the Katikiro and an English passen- 
ger came to help me ; the Katikiro seized me by my bad 
leg and pulled me by it, and I pulled at the Indian 
though I was nearly letting him go as my leg was so 
painful. However, I gained strength from the Katikiro's 
help, and persevered, and pulled very hard, and with 
the help of the English passenger we got the Indian on 
board ; and he thanked us very much, as did the other 
soldiers, because he was nearly lost ; perhaps he did 
not know how to swim he shrieked a great deal in his 
fright. 

After this Jumba went ashore for the night, the 
Katikiro helping him into his canoe as the lake was 
very rough, and it was tossing about. 

The next morning we left Bugaya at half-past five, 



Uoanfca's fcatihtro in 

and I pointed out to the Katikiro some islands which 
he did not know in the Buvuma group, and also pointed 
out the hills of Uganda on the Bukunja coast, and 
showed Mr. Millar my estates of Kyasi and Lulagwe 
on the Koja peninsula. We were all very happy at the 
thought of reaching Mengo that day, and when we got 
near the island of Damba the Katikiro said, ** Let us 
put on our best clothes to arrive in, as we are near the 
end of our journey " ; and we did so, and sat in our chairs, 
looking at the hills which we knew so well. We were 
perhaps like an Englishman who is happy when arriv- 
ing at Dover, or a Frenchman who is very happy as 
he approaches Marseilles ; thus we were, and we saw 
in the distance a large number of people at the landing- 
place at Munyonyo, and the horses of the chiefs who 
had come to meet us and welcome us. We saw also 
our own horses, which had come to fetch us, and we 
heard Silasi Mugwanya's drum on the mainland, where 
he was himself. 

When our steamer was midway between Munyonyo 
and Bulinguge it stopped, and they brought out canoes 
to take us on shore ; but the chief of the steamer, Captain 
May, said he would send us ashore in his own boat. They 
brought it round and we both got in with the man who 
was to row us on shore, and said good-bye to all our 
English friends on the steamer, and were rowed ashore 
to the pier for sailing-boats, where we met Silasi Mugwanya 
and his drummer and boys. When we got ashore he 



Bacfc In TUsanfca 273 



greeted us most joyfully, and his servant Kiza .helped 
us out of the boat. He then took us to the rest-house, 
where there was a table spread with many kinds of 
eatables, and we found there a very great number of 
people standing like soldiers in two lines, all dressed in 
beautifully white clothes. When we got to the middle 
of the line they all began cheering and clapping their 
hands for joy at seeing us arrive safely. 

We entered the rest-house and found a great many 
chiefs waiting for us, who all welcomed us joyfully. 
We found there also biscuits and tea and lemonade, 
and after they had welcomed us we had tea, and told 
them about all we had seen in England, the vast numbers 
of the English and their cleverness, and their beautiful 
houses, and streets, and bridges, and boats, and about 
all that they do in their land, and how their land 
is so peaceful, and how much kinder they are than 
we are. We told them all this as we sat at the table ; 
there were there a great many people who had come to 
meet us, both English and Baganda. 

After a rest we started for the capital, and on the road 
met enormous numbers of people, perhaps about three 
thousand. We went in two groups : the Katikiro went 
with a number of people whom he was telling about 
England, and I followed with another crowd of people 
telling them about all we had seen. As we went along 
we met numbers of people, and the women came out of 
their houses by the side of the road as we passed, and 

18 



274 Tfloai^a'0 1\atihtro in 



km -It down and clapped their hands and cried for joy, and 
congratulated us on our journey. 

When we got near the King's palace he sent messengers 
to greet us. He himself sat at the principal gate, with 
many of the chiefs, Zakariya Kizito and Samwili Mukasa 
Kangawo, Yosuwa Mugema, and others. When we 
reached the road from Rubaga my father Zakariya 
Sensalire met us ; he first welcomed the Katikiro, and 
then the Katikiro brought him to me, and I got off my 
horse, and the Katikiro said, " Well, Zakariya, do you see 
your son has got back safely ? " and he said, ** Yes, I see 
him, and I congratulate you very much on your journey." 

When we reached the front of the palace we found it 
crowded with people ; perhaps there were five thousand 
people there, and we went up to greet the King. Apolo 
Katikiro fell on his neck and embraced him ; I merely 
greeted him, and then Mr. Bonip took a photograph 
of the Katikiro embracing the King. The Katikiro 
told the King a little about what he had seen, and 
then Zakariya Kisingire said, *' There will be a meeting 
of the Parliament to-morrow ; we must not tire out our 
friends, but let them go home, because we have welcomed 
them back, and now they had better go and rest." 

The King then went away, and we went to the Katikiro's 
place, and in the courtyard met his wife and many other 
people, both men and women, who crowded round us 
so much that we could not get through them, because 
every one wanted to get near him. They were so pleased 



TKHelcome Ibome! 275 

to see him that they could not think of his tiredness 
or of his dignity, they were all so pleased to see him back 
again. We sat in the courtyard a little time waiting 
for the people to settle down, and then went to the inner 
court, where we found a table set for us with all 
manner of things to eat and drink, which Samwili Mukasa, 
the Kangawo, had got ready for us ; there was tea, and 
biscuits, and lemonade, and lime juice. He had also 
strewed grass all along the roadway, and had put up 
bananas and flowers and palms to gladden our eyes. 

When we reached the inner court I said to the Katikiro's 
wife, Samali, " Do you see how I have brought back your 
husband safely ? " and she said, " Yes, I see him ; you 
have looked after him very well indeed." After this I 
went off to my own house with my two friends Teofiro 
Musalosalo and Yosiya Kasozi Kweba. When I got 
home I found my wife Hana Mukasa and a great many 
other people waiting for me, and after I had greeted her we 
went into the house, but found that all the people could 
not get in, as there were so many, so I went out into the 
courtyard and sat on a chair, and they all sat looking 
at me, and I told them about all the wonders of England 
and what the country was like, and what a fine land it was. 

I also told them how great was the population of 
England, and how they tamed elephants and all kinds of 
animals. Some of my hearers thought I was merely 
telling stories when I told them how an elephant fired 
a gun, and beat a drum, and lit a candle, and how a 



276 'Uflaitfa's fcatifctro in 

hippopotamus was called, and came just like a dog 
in other lands that they knew of. They were 
much astonished to hear of a hippopotamus leaving 
the water when it was called, and going back again v. 
it was told. Some did not understand that I was speaking 
the truth, while others, who knew that we would not tell 
them what was false, did not hesitate to believe it. I 
sat there from half-past six in the evening until one 
o'clock in the morning. 

The next day, September i8th, we went to the Cathedral 
to thank God for bringing us back safely. The Rev. 
H. W. Duta preached the sermon, and praised the wisdom 
of the Katikiro, telling how he was the first to write a 
book to tell about our land. He called him the ** key to 
the wisdom of Uganda." 

After this we went to the Parliament Hall at Kampala, 
which Mr. G. Wilson had built of brick, and which was 
a very fine building. In the courtyard we saw Mr. Deane 
and the Soudanese and Baganda soldiers, who played 
a salute when we arrived, and when we entered the hall 
all who were in it stood up to give the Katikiro honour. 
We then sat down on our chairs, both together, so that 
we could remind one another about what we had seen. 
The King and chiefs and a great many Europeans were 
there. Mr. Wilson was the representative of the Com- 
missioner, who was away visiting Unyoro, and read us 
a speech congratulating us on the completion of our 
journey, and thanking those to whom the Katikiro had 



a Special Sesaion of parliament 277 

entrusted his work, and saying that he hoped now that the 
Katikiro had seen England and English ways, he would 
work at getting Uganda into order. All this was said in 
English, and Archdeacon Walker turned it into Luganda. 

After this the Katikiro related some of his experiences 
in England, which made the Europeans laugh very much ; 
Archdeacon Walker translated his speech into English for 
the Government officials who did not know Luganda. 

The Katikiro told them a great many things : how 
the ladies dressed, and how they greeted one another, 
and how they gave feasts to us, and what the houses 
and roads were like, and what vast numbers of people 
there were, and how the men dressed very well, and how 
kind they were, and how kind the King was, and what his 
palace was like ; what the trains and the carriages were 
like, and what large ships they had, and how large the 
sea was, and what the waves were like, and how large the 
English cities were, and many other things which I have 
not written down. After this the session was over, and 
the King went away, and so did all the Europeans, very 
pleased with what they had heard about their country. 

All the time from September I7th to October 3ist 
we had no rest by day or night ; some people went to the 
Katikiro, others came to me, all wanting very much to 
hear all about England ; and I showed them the things 
we had got from the various factories of all kinds, and 
showed them too the photographs which had been taken 
of us while we were in England, and the pictures of 



278 lltfattfa's 1<atihiro in England 



's coronation a great many "f these had been 
printed and sent all over the world, that all might 
unln>tand how it went off. 

On October i-jth Colonel Sadler, the Commissi< 
came back, and we all went to see him Apolo Katikiro, 
Mr. Millar, and I, Ham Mukasa and we told him about 
England, and he was very pleased, and told us about \ 
he had heard in our absence. 

Well, my friends, you should read this book very 
carefully and attentively, that you may understand what 
other and wiser lands are like ; and though we call these 
lands wise, you should remember that wisdom does not 
come to a lazy and weak man, but to one who works hard 
and thinks daily about his work. Thought and persever- 
ance thus increase a man's wisdom every year and every 
month. " He who goes slowly goes far " ; "a crackling 
sound is not a fire," and a great city is not built in one 
year. Let us then go ahead slowly and surely ; perhaps 
our grandchildren will be much wiser than we are, but 
we should encourage our children daily to learn all 
they can, that they may teach their children after we have 
gone, and so they may go on increasing in wisdom both 
in the mind and in handicrafts. 

Well, this is the story of the journey of Apolo Katikiro, 
Ham Mukasa, and the Rev. Ernest Millar. 



PrinUd and bound by HattU, Watton <S> Vinty, Ld., London and AyUtbttry. 
