About This File

This file is part of a corpus compiled by Caitlin Matheis (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) for a 2021 computational text analysis project for the One More Voice recovery project (onemorevoice.org). This corpus encompasses a wide range of plain text (TXT) files containing nineteenth- and early twentieth-century literary works centered on Africa by several dozen different British and African writers. Questions about the corpus and project can be directed to Caitlin Matheis (cmatheis2@huskers.unl.edu), the creator of the corpus, and Adrian S. Wisnicki (awisnicki@unl.edu), lead developer for One More Voice.

File Source: Internet Archive, http://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.236312

--------------------------------------

NATIVE LIFE IN 
SOUTH AFRICA, 
BEFORE AND SINCE THE 
EUROPEAN WAR AND 
THE BOER REBELLION 

By 
SOL. T. PLAATJE 

Editor of Tsala ea Batho, Kimberley, S.A. 
Author of Sechuana Proverbs and their European Equivalents 

LONDON 
P. S. KING & SON, LTD. 
ORCHARD HOUSE, WESTMINSTER 



THE AUTHOR. 


( P/i()/r> WaKH Il-LD Ealirii;, W ) 





TO 

MISS HARRTETTE E. COLENSO, 

" Nkosazana Matotobaka So-Bantu/' 

Daughter of tlie late Rt. Rev. J. \V. Colenso 
(In his life-time Bishop of Natal and Father of the Zulus.'') 

In recognition of her unswerving loyalty to the 
policy of her late distinguished father 
and unselfish interest in the 
welfare of the South 
African Natives, 

This Book is Dedicated. 




CONTENTS 

CHAP. PAGE 

(A) Who is the Author ?.,••• 9 

(B) Prologue . . . • . . . ii 

I A Retrospect . . . . . • i 7 

II The Grim Struggle between Right and 

Wrong ....... 29 

III The Natives Land Act .... 45 

IV One Night with the Fugitives ... 58 

• V Another Night with the Sufferers . . 72 

VI Our Indebtedness to White Women . 81 

VII Persecution of Coloured Women in the 

Orange Free State .... 91 

VIII At Thaba Ncho : A Secretarial Fiasco . 102 

IX The Fateful 13 . . . . .117 

X Dr. Abdurahman, President of the A.P.O. 134 
XI The Land Act in Cape Colony . . .146 


7 



8 CONTENTS 

CHAP. PAOa 

XII Thb Passing of Cape Ideals . . • i 55 

XIII Tengo-Jabavu, the Pioneer Native Press- ^ 

MAN ....... 165 

XIV The Native Congress and the Union Govern- 

ment . . . . . . *171 

XV The Kimberley Congress . . . .181 

XVI The Appeal for Imperial Protection . 194 

XVII The London Press and the Native Depu- 

tation . . . . . . .214 

XVIII The P.S.A. and Brotherhoods . . . 223 

XIX Armed Natives in the South African 

War 234 

XX The South African Races and the European 

War ....... 255 

XXI Coloured People's help Rejected . . 274 

XXII The South African Boers and the Euro- ' 

pean War ...... 288 

XXIII The Boer Rebellion . . . .317 

XXIV Piet Grobler ...... 


Epilogue 


345 



WHO IS THE AUTHOR ? 

A fter wondering for some time how best to 
answer this question, we decided to reply to it 
by using one of several personal references in our 
possession. The next puzzle was : Which one ? " 

We carefully examined each, but could not strike a 
happy decision until some one who entered the room 
happened to make use of the familiar phrase : The 
long and the short of it.'' That phrase solved the 
difficulty for us, and we at once made up our mind 
to use two of these references, namely, the shortest and 
the longest. The first one is from His Royal High- 
ness the Duke of Connaught, and the second takes the 
form of a leading article in the Pretoria News. 

Central South African Railways, 

• High Commissioner's Train. 

On February i, 1906, Mr. Sol Plaatje acted as Interpreter when I visited 
the Bar along Native Stadt at Maf eking, and performed his duty to my 
entire satisfaction. 

Mafekino, (Signed) Arthur. 

February i, 1906. 

We commence to-day an experiment which will prove a success If 
onlv we can persuade the more rabid negrophobes to adopt a moderate 
ana sensible attitude. We publish the tot of a series of letters from 
a native correspondent of considerable education and ability, his name 
is Solomon Tshekisho Plaatje. Mr. Plaatje was bom in the district of 
Boshof, his parents being Barolongs, coming originally from Thaba Ncho, 
and trekking eventually to Mafeking. He attended the Lutheran Mission 
School at the Pniel Mission Station, near Barkly West, as a boy, under the 
Rev. G. E. Westphal ; and at thirteen years he passed the fourth standard^ 
which was as far as the school could take him. For the next three yean 
he acted as pupil- teacher, receiving private lessons from the Rev. and 
Mrs. Westphal. At the age of sixteen he joined the Cape Government 
service as letter-carrier in the Kimberley Post Office. There he studied 

9 



10 


WHO IS THE AUTHOR ? 


languages in his spare time, and passed the Cape Civil Service examination 
in typewriting, Dutch and native languages, heading the list of successful 
candidates in each subject. Shortly before the war he was transferred 
to Maf eking as interpreter, and during the siege was appointed Dutch 
interpreter to the Court of Summary Jurisdiction, presided over by Lord 
Edward Cecil. The Magistrate's clerks having taken up arms, Mr. Plaatje 
became confidential clerk to Mr. C. G. H. Bell, who administered Native 
affairs during the siege. Mr. Plaatje drew up weekly reports on the Native 
situation, which were greatly valued by the military authorities, and in 
a letter written to a friend asserted with some sense of humour that " this 
arrangement was so satisfactory that Mr. Beil was created a C.M.G. at the 
end of the siege." 

Had it not been for the colour bar, Mr. Plaatje, in all probability, 
would have been holding an important position in the Department of 
Native Affairs ; as it was, he entered the ranks of journalism as Editor, 
in the first place, of Koranta ea Becoana, a weekly paper in English and 
Sechuana, which was financed by the Chief Silas Molema and existed 
for seven years very successfully. At the present moment Mr. Plaatje 
is Editor of the Tsala ea Batho (The People's Friend) at Kimberley, which 
is owned by a native syndicate, having its headquarters in the Free State. 
Mr. Plaatje has acted as interpreter for many distinguished visitors to 
South Africa, and holds autograph letters from the Duke of Connaught, 
Mr. Chamberlain, and other notabilities. He visited Mr. Abraham Fischer 
quite lately and obtained from him a promise to introduce a Bill into 
Parliament ameliorating the position of the Natives of the Orange River 
Colony, who are debarred by law from receiving titles to landed property. 
Mr. Plaatje's articles on native affairs have been marked by the robust 
common sense and moderation so characteristic of Mr. Booker Washington. 
He realizes the great debt which the Natives owe to the men who brought 
civilization to South Africa. He is no agitator or firebrand, no stirrer- 
up of bad feeling between black and white. He accepts the position 
which the Natives occupy to-day in the body politic as the natural result 
of their lack of education and civilization. He is devoted to his own 
people, and notes with ever-increasing regret the lack of understanding 
and knowledge of those people, which is so palpable in the vast majority 
of the letters and leading articles written on the native question. As 
an educated Native with liberal ideas he rather resents the power and 
authority of the uneducated native chiefs who govern by virtue of their 
birth alone, and he writes and speaks for an entirely new school of native 
thought. The opinion of such a man ought to carry weight when native 
affairs are being discussed. We have fallen into the habit of discussing 
and legislating for the Native without ever stopping for one moment to 
consider what the Native himself thinks. No one but a fool will deny 
the importance of knowing what the Native thinks before we legislate 
for him. It is in the hope of enlightening an otherwise barren contro- 
versy that we shall publish from time to time Mr. Plaatje's letters, com- 
mending them always to the more thoughtful and practical of our readers. 
— Pretoria News, September, 1910. 

(The writer of this appreciation, the Editor of the 
Pretoria evening paper, was Reuter's war correspon- 
dent in the siege of Mafeking.) 



PROLOGUE 

W E have often read books, written by well-known 
scholars, who disavow, on behalf of their 
works, any claim to literary perfection. How much 
more necessary, then, that a South African native 
workingman, who has never received any secondary 
training, should in attempting authorship disclaim, 
on behalf of his work, any title to literary merit. 
Mine is but a sincere narrative of a melancholy situa- 
tion, in which, with all its shortcomings, I have endea- 
voured to describe the difficulties of the South African 
Natives under a very strange law, so as most readily 
to be understood by the sympathetic reader. 

The information contained in the following chapters 
Is the result of personal observations made by the 
, author in certain districts of the Transvaal, Orange 
Free " State and the Province of the Cape of Go^ 
Hope. In pursuance of this private inquiry, I reached 
Lady Brand early in September, 1913, when, my finan- 
cial resources being exhausted, I decided to drop the 
inquiry and return home. But my friend, Mr. W. 
Z. Fenyang, of the farm Rietfontein, in the Free 
State, offered to convey me to the South of Moroka 
district, where I saw much of the trouble, and further, 
he paid my railway fare from Thaba Ncho back to 
Kimberley. 

In the following November, it was felt that as Mr. 
Saul Msane, the organizer for the South African 

u 



12 


PROLOGUE 


Native National Congress, was touring the eastern 
districts of the Transvaal, and Mr. Dube, the President, 
was touring the northern districts and Natal, and 
as the finances of the Congress did not permit an 
additional traveller, no information would be forth- 
coming in regard to the operation of the mischievous 
Act in the Cape Province. So Mr. J. M. Nyokong, 
of the farm Maseru, offered to bear part of the expenses 
if I would undertake a visit to the Cape. I must add 
that beyond spending six weeks on the tour to the 
Cape, the visit did not cost me much, for Mr. W. D. 
Soga, of King Williamstown, very generously supple- 
mented Mr. Nyokong's offer and accompanied me on 
a part of the journey. 

Besides the information received and the hospitality 
' enjoyed from these and other friends, the author is 
indebted, for further information, to Mr. Attorney 
Msimang, of Johannesburg. Mr. Msimang toured 
some of the Districts, compiled a list of some of the 
sufferers from the Natives' Land Act, and learnt the 
circumstances of their eviction. His list, however, 
is not full, its compilation having been undertaken 
in May, 1914, when the main exodus of the evicted 
tenants to the cities and Protectorates had already « 
taken place, and when eyewitnesses of the evils of 
the Act had already fled the country. But it is useful 
in showing that the persecution is still continuing, 
for, according to this list, a good many families were 
evicted a year after the Act was enforced, and many 
more were at that time under notice to quit. Mr. 
Msimang, modestly states in an explanatory note, that 
his pamphlet contains comparatively few instances of 
actual cases of hardship under the Natives' Land Act, 
1913, to vindicate the leaders of the South African Native 
National Congress from the gross imputation, by the 
Native Affairs Department> that they make geneKd 



PROLOGUE 


13 


allegations of hardships without producing any specific 
cases that can bear examination." Mr. Msimang, 
who took a number of sworn statements from the 
sufferers, adds that " in Natal, for example, all of these 
instances have been reported to the Magistrates and 
the Chief Native Commissioner. Every time they 
are told to find themselves other places, or remain 
where they are under labour conditions. At Peters 
and Colworth, seventy-nine and a hundred families 
respectively are being ejected by the Government 
itself without providing land for them." 

Some readers may perhaps think that I have taken 
the Colonial Parliament rather severely to task. But 
to any reader who holds with Bacon, that " the pencil 
hath laboured more in describing the afflictions of 
Job than the felicities of Solomon," I would say : 
" Do, if we dare make the request, and place yourself 
in our shoes." If, after a proper declaration of war, 
you found your kinsmen driven from pillar to post in 
the manner that the South African Natives have been 
harried and skarried by Act No. 27 of 1913, you would, 
though aware that it is part of the fortunes of war, 
find it difficult to suppress your hatred of the enemy. 
Similarly, if you see your countrymen and country- 
women driven from home, their homes broken up, 
with no hopes of redress, on the mandate of a Govern- 
ment to which they had loyally paid taxation without 
representation — driven from their homes, because 
they do not want to become servants ; and when 
you know that half of these homeless ones have 
perforce submitted to the conditions and accepted 
service on terms that are unprofitable to them- 
selves ; if you remember that more would have 
submitted but for the fact that no master has 
any use for a servant with forty head of cattle, or a 
hundred or more sheep ; and if you further bear in 



14 


PROLOGUE 


mind that many landowners are anxious to live at 
peace with, and to keep your people as tenants, but 
ftvat ttiey axe debarred irom doing so by your Govern- 
ment which threatens them with a fine of £ioo or 
six months* imprisonment, you would, I think, likewise 
find it very difficult to maintain a level head or wield 
a temperate pen. 

For instance, let us say, the London County Council 
decrees that no man shall rent a room, or hire a house, 
in the City of London unless he be a servant in 
the employ of the landlord, adding that there 
shall be a fine of one hundred pounds on any one 
who attempts to sell a house to a non-householder ; 
imagine such a thing and its effects, then you have 
some approach to an accurate picture of the operation 
of the South African Natives* Land Act of 1913. In 
conclusion, let me ask the reader*s support in our 
campaign for the repeal of such a law, and in making 
this request I pray that none of my readers may live to 
find themselves in a position so intolerable. 

When the narrative of this book up to Chapter 
XVIII was completed, it was felt that an account of 
life in South Africa, without a reference to the war 
or the rebellion would be but a story half told, and 
so Chapters XIX~XXV were added. It will be 
observed that Chapters XX~XXIV, unlike the rest 
of the book, are not the result of the writer*s own 
observations. The writer is indebted for much of the 
information in these five chapters to the Native Press 
and some Dutch newspapers which his devoted wife 
posted to him with every mail. These papers have 
been a source of useful information. Of the Dutch 
newspapers special thanks are due to Het Westen of 
Potchefstroom, which has since March 1915 changed 
its name to Hei Volksblad, Most of the Dutch journals, 
especially in the northern Provinces, take up the 



PROLOGUE 


i5 


views of English-speaking Dutch townsmen (solicitors 
and Bank clerks), and publish them as the opinion of 
the South African Dutch. Het Westen (now Het 
Volksblad), on the other hand, interprets the Dutch 
view, sound, bad or indifferent, exactly as we ourselves 
have heard it expressed by Dutchmen at their own 
farms. 

Translations of the Tipperary Chorus into some of 
the languages which are spoken by the white and 
black inhabitants of South Africa have been used here 
and there as mottoes ; and as this book is a plea in 
the main for help against the '' South African war of 
extermination,'' it is hoped that admirers of Tommy 
Atkins will S5nnpathize with the coloured sufferers, 
who also sing Tommy Atkins' war songs. 

This appeal is not on behalf of the naked hordes 
of cannibals who are represented in fantastic pictures 
displayed in the shop-windows in Europe, most of 
them imaginary ; but it is on behalf of five million 
loyal British subjects who shoulder '' the black man's 
burden " every day, doing so without looking forward 
to any decoration or thanks. '' The ^ black man's 
burden " includes the faithful performance of all the 
^skilled and least paying labour in South Africa, 
the payment of direct taxation to the various Munici- 
palities, at the rate of from is. to 5s. per mensum per 
capita (to develop and beautify the white quarters 
of the towns while the black quarters remain unat- 
tended) besides taxes to the Provincial and Central 
Government, varying from 12s. to £3 12s. per annum, 
for the maintenance of Government Schools from 
which native children are excluded. In addition 
to these native duties and taxes, it is also part of 
'' the black man's burden " to pay all duties levied 
from the favoured race. With the increasing 
difl&culty of finding openings to earn the money for 



i6 


PROLOGUE 


paying these multifarious taxes, the dumb pack-ox, 
being inarticulate in the Councils of State, has no 
means of making known to its '' keeper '' that the 
burden is straining its back to breaking point. 

When Sir John French appealed to the British 
people for more shells during Easter week, the Gover- 
nor-General of South Africa addressing a fashionable 
crowd at the City Hall, Johannesburg, most of whom 
had never seen the mouth of a mine, congratulated 
them on the fact that '' under the strain of war and 
rebellion the gold industry had been maintained at 
full pitch,'' and he added that ''every ounce of gold 
was worth many shells to the Allies." But His Excel- 
lency had not a word of encouragement for the 200,000 
subterranean heroes who by day and by night, for a 
mere pittance, lay down their limbs and their lives 
to the familiar " fall of rock " and who, at deep levels 
ranging from 1,000 feet to 1,000 yards in the bowels 
of the earth, sacrifice their lungs to the rock dust 
which develops miners' phthisis and pneumonia — poor 
reward, but a sacrifice that enables the world's richest 
gold mines, in the Johannesburg area alone, to main- 
tain the credit of the Empire with a weekly output of 
;f750,ooo worth of raw gold. Surely the appeal of* 
chattels who render service of such great value deserves 
the attention of the British people. 

Finally, I would say as Professor Du Bois says in 
his book The Souls of Black Folk, on the relations 
between the sons of master and man, " I have not 
glossed over matters for polfty's sake, for I fear we 
have already gone too far in that sort of thing. On 
the other hand I have sincerely sought to let no unfair 
exaggerations creep in. I do not doubt that in some 
communities conditions are better than those I have 
indicated ; while I am no less certain that in other 
communities they are far worse." 



CHAPTER I 

A RETROSPECT 

I AM Black, but comely, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of 
Kedar, as the curtains of Solomon. 

Look not upon me because I am black, because the sun hath looked upon 
me : my mother's children were angry with me ; they made me the 
keeper of the vineyards ; but mine own vineyard have I not kept. 

The Song of Songs. 

A waking on Friday morning, June 20, 1913, 
the South African Native found himself, not 
actually a slave, but a pariah in the land of his birth. 

The 4,500,000 black South Africans are domiciled 
as follows : One and three-quarter millions in Loca- 
tions and Reserves, over half a million within muni- 
cipalities or in urban areas, and nearly a million as 
squatters on farms owned by Europeans. The re- 
mainder are employed either on the public roads or 
railway lines, or as servants by European farmers, 
qualifying,^ that is, by hard work and saving to start 
farming on their own account. 

A squatter in South Africa is a native who owns some 
livestock and, having no land of his own, hires a farm 
or grazing and ploughing rights from a landowner, 
to raise grain for his own use and feed his stock. Hence, 
these squatters are hit very hard by an Act which 
passed both Houses of Parliament during the session 
of 1913, received the signature of the Governor-General 
on June 16, was gazetted on June 19, and forthwith came 
into operation. It may here be mentioned that on 

17 B 



i8 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


that day Lord Gladstone signed no fewer than sixteen 
new Acts of Parliament — some of them being rather 
voluminous — while three days earlier, His Excellency 
signed another batch of eight, of which the bulk was 
beyond the capability of any mortal to read and digest 
in four days. 

But the great revolutionary change thus wrought 
by a single stroke of the pen, in the condition of the 
Native, was not realized by him until about the end of 
June. As a rule many farm tenancies expire at the 
end of the half-year, so that in June, 1913, not knowing 
that it was impracticable to make fresh contracts, some 
Natives unwittingly went to search for new places of 
abode, which some farmers, ignorant of the law, 
quite as unwittingly accorded them. It was only when 
they went to register the new tenancies that the law 
officers of the Crown laid bare the cruel fact that to 
provide a landless Native with accommodation was 
forbidden under a penalty of £100, or six months' 
imprisonment. Then only was the situation realized. 

Other Natives who had taken up fresh places on 
European farms under verbal contracts, which needed 
no registration, actually founded new homes in spite 
of the law, neither the white farmer nor the ng-tive 
tenant being aware of the serious penalties they were 
exposed to by their verbal contracts. 

In justice to the Government, it must be stated that 
no police officers scoured the country in search of law- 
breakers, to prosecute them under this law. Had 
this been done, many £100 cheques would have passed 
into the Government coffers during that black July, 
the first month after Lord Gladstone affixed his signa- 
ture to the Natives' Land Act, No. 27 of 1913. 

The complication of this cruel law is made manifest 
by the fact that it was found necessary for a high 
officer of the Government to tour the Provinces soon 



A RETROSPECT 


19 


after the Act came into force, with the object of 
teaching '' Magistrates how to administer it. A 
Congress of Magistrates — a most unusual thing — 
was also called in Pretoria to find a way for 
carrying out the King's writ in the face of the 
difficulties arising from this tangle of the Act. We 
may add that nearly all white lawyers in South 
Africa, to whom we spoke about this measure, had 
either not seen the Act at all, or had not read it care- 
fully, so that in both cases they could not tell exactly 
for whose benefit it had been passed. The study of 
this law required a much longer time than the lawyers, 
unless specially briefed, could devote to it, so that 
they hardly knew what all the trouble was about. It 
was the Native in the four Provinces who knew all 
about it, for he had not read it in books but had him- 
self been through its mill, which like an automatic 
machine ground him relentlessly since the end of the 
month of June. Not the least but one of the cruellest 
and most ironical phases — and nearly every clause 
of this Act teems with irony — is the Schedule or 
appendix giving the so-called Scheduled Native Areas ; 
and what are these '' Scheduled Native Areas " ? 

SChey are the Native Locations which were reserved 
for the exclusive use of certain native clans. They 
are inalienable and cannot be bought or sold, yet the 
Act says that in these Scheduled Native Areas " 
Natives only may buy land. The areas being inalien- 
able, not even members of the clans, for whose benefit 
the locations are held in trust, can buy land therein. 
The areas could only be sold if the whole clan rebelled ; 
in that case the location would be confiscated. But as 
long as the clans of the location remain loyal to the 
Government, nobody can buy any land within these 
areas. Under the respective charters of these areas, 
not even a member of the clan can get a separate title 



20 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

as owner in an area — let alone a native outsider who 
had grown up among white people and done all his 
farming on white man's land. 

If we exclude the arid tracts of Bechuanaland, 
these Locations appear to have been granted on such 
a small scale that each of them got so overcrowded 
that much of the population had to go out and settle 
on the farms of white farmers through lack of space 
in the Locations. Yet a majority of the legislators, 
although well aware of all these limitations, and 
without remedying any of them, legislate, shall we 
say, '' with its tongue in its cheek " that only 
Natives may buy land in Native Locations. 

Again, the Locations form but one-eighteenth of 
the total area of the Union. Theoretically, then, the 
4,500,000 Natives may " buy " land in only one- 
eighteenth part of the Union, leaving the remaining 
seventeen parts for the one million whites. It is 
moreover true that, numerically, the Act was passed 
by the consent of a majority of both Houses of Parlia- 
ment, but it is equally true that it was steam-rolled 
into the statute book against the bitterest opposition 
of the best brains of both Houses. A most curious 
aspect of this singular law is that even the Minister, 
since deceased, who introduced it, subsequently de- 
clared himself against it, adding that he only forced 
it through in order to stave off something worse. 
Indeed, it is correct to say that Mr. Sauer, who intro- 
duced the Bill, spoke against it repeatedly in the 
House ; he deleted the milder provisions, inserted 
more drastic amendments, spoke repeatedly against 
his own amendments, then in conclusion he would com- 
bat his own arguments by calling the ministerial steam- 
roller to support the Government and vote for the 
drastic amendments. The only explanation of the 
puzzle constituted as such by these hot-and-cold " 



A RETROSPECT 


21 


methods is that Mr. Sauer was legislating for an 
electorate, at the expense of another section of the 
population which was without direct representation 
in Parliament. None of the non-European races in the 
Provinces of Natal, Transvaal and the " Free State 
can exercise the franchise. They have no say in the 
selection of members for the Union Parliament. That 
right is only limited to white men, so that a large 
number of the members of Parliament who voted for 
this measure have no responsibility towards the black 
races. 

Before reproducing this tyrannical enactment it 
would perhaps be well to recapitulate briefly the 
influences that led up to it. When the Union of the 
South African Colonies became an accomplished fact, 
a dread was expressed by ex-Republicans that the 
liberal native policy of the Cape would supersede the 
repressive policy of the old Republics, and they lost 
no time in taking definite steps to force down the 
throats of the Union Legislature, as it were, laws 
which the Dutch Presidents of pre-war days, with the 
British suzerainty over their heads, did not dare 
enforce against the Native people then under them. 
With the formation of the Union, the Imperial Govern- 
ment, for reasons which have never been satisfactorily 
explained, unreservedly handed over the Natives 
to the colonists, and these colonists, as a rule, are 
dominated by the Dutch Republican spirit. Thus 
the suzerainty of Great Britain, which under the reign 
of Her late Majesty Victoria, of blessed memory, was 
the Natives' only bulwark, has now apparently been 
withdrawn or relaxed, and the Republicans, like a lot 
of bloodhounds long held in the leash, use the free 
hand given by the Imperial Government not only to 
guard against a possible supersession of Cape ideals 
of toleration, but to effectively extend throughout 



22 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


the Union the drastic native policy pursued by the 
Province which is misnamed Free '' State, and 
enforce it with the utmost rigour. 

During the first year of the Union, it would seem 
that General Botha made an honest attempt to live 
up to his London promises, that are mentioned by 
Mr. Merriman in his speech (reproduced elsewhere) 
on the second reading of the Bill in Parliament. It 
would seem that General Botha endeavoured to allay 
British apprehensions and concern for the welfare 
of the Native population. In pursuance of this policy 
General Botha won the approbation of all Natives 
by appointing Hon. H. Burton, a Cape Minister, to 
the portfolio of Native Affairs. That the appoint- 
ment was a happy one, from the native point of view, 
became manifest when Mr. Burton signalized the 
ushering in of Union, by releasing Chief Dinizulu-ka- 
Cetywayo, who at that time was undergoing a sen- 
tence of imprisonment imposed by the Natal Supreme 
Court, and by the restoration to Dinizulu of his pension 
of ;^5oo a year. Also, in deference to the wishes of the 
Native Congress, Mr, Burton abrogated two parti- 
cularly obnoxious Natal measures, one legalizing the 

Sibalo system of forced labour, the other ^o- 
hibiting public meetings by Natives without the 
consent of the Government. These abrogations placed 
the Natives of Natal in almost the same position as the 
Cape Natives though without giving them the franchise. 
So, too, when a drastic Squatters* Bill was gazetted 
early in 1912, and the recently formed Native National 
Congress sent a deputation to interview Mr. Burton 
in Capetown ; after hearing the deputation, he gra- 
ciously consented to withdraw the proposed measure, 
pending the allotment of new Locations in which 
Natives evicted by such a measure could find an 
asylum. In further deference to the representations 



A RETROSPECT 


23 


of the Native Congress, in which they were supported 
by Senators the Hon. W. P. Schreiner, Colonel Stanford, 
and Mr. Krogh, the Union Government gazetted 
another Bill in January, 1911, to amend an anomaly 
which, at that time, was peculiar to the Free '' 
State : an anomaly under which a Native can neither 
purchase nor lease land, and native landowners in the 
" Free State could only sell their land to the white 
people. 

The gazetted Bill proposed to legalize only in one 
district of the Orange " Free '' State the sale of landed 
property by a Native to another Native as well as 
to a white man, but it did not propose to enable Natives 
to buy land from white men. The object of the Bill 
was to remove a hardship, mentioned elsewhere in 
this sketch, by which a '' Free State Native was by 
law debarred from inheriting landed property left 
to him under his uncle's will. But against such small 
attempts at reform, proposed or carried out by the 
Union Government in the interest of the Natives, 
granted in small instalments of a teaspoonful at a 
time — reforms dictated solely by feelings of justice 
and equity — ex- Republicans were furious. 

£rom platform. Press, and pulpit it was suggested 
that General Botha's administration was too pro- 
English and needed overhauling. The Dutch peasants 
along the countryside were inflamed by hearing that 
their gallant leader desired to Anglicize the country. 
Nothing was more repellent to the ideas of the backveld 
Dutch, and so at small meetings in the country districts 
resolutions were passed stating that the Botha adminis- 
tration had outlived its usefulness. These resolutions 
reaching the Press from day to day had the effect of 
stirring up the Dutch voters against the Ministry, 
and particularly against the head. At this time 
General Botha's sound policy began to weaken. He 



24 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

transferred Hon. H. Burton, first Minister of Natives, 
to the portfolio of Railways and Harbours, and ap- 
pointed General Hertzog, of all people in the world, 
to the portfolio of Native Affairs. 

The good-humoured indulgence of some Dutch and 
English farmers towards their native squatters, and 
the affectionate loyalty of some of these native squat- 
ters in return, will cause a keen observer, arriving 
at a South African farm, to be lost in admiration 
for this mutual good feeling. He will wonder as to 
the meaning of the fabled bugbear anent the alleged 
struggle between white and black, which in reality 
appears to exist only in the fertile brain of the politi- 
cian. Thus let the new arrival go to one of the 
farms in the Bethlehem or Harrismith Districts for 
example, and see how willingly the Native toils in the 
fields ; see him gathering in his crops and handing over 
the white farmer's share of the crop to the owner of 
the land ; watch the farmer receiving his tribute from 
the native tenants, and see him deliver the first 
prize to the native tenant who raised the largest crop 
during that season ; let him also see both the Natives 
and the landowning white farmers following to per- 
fection the give-and-take policy of live and let li^," 
and he will conclude that it would be gross sacrilege 
to attempt to disturb such harmonious relations 
between these people of different races and colours. 
But with a ruthless hand the Natives' Land Act has 
succeeded in remorselessly destroying those happy 
relations. 

First of all. General Hertzog, the new Minister of 
Native Affairs, travelled up and down the country 
lecturing farmers on their folly in letting ground to 
the Natives ; the racial extremists of his party hailed 
him as the right man for the post, for, as his conduct 
showed them, he would soon " fix up ''the Natives. At 



A RETROSPECT 


25 


one or two places he was actually welcomed as the future 
Prime Minister of the Union. On the other hand, General 
Botha, who at that time seemed to have become 
visibly timid, endeavoured to ingratiate himself with 
his discontented supporters by joining his lieutenant in 
travelling to and fro, denouncing the Dutch farmers 
for not expelling the Natives from their farms and re- 
placing them with poor whites. This became a regular 
Ministerial campaign against the Natives, so that it 
seemed clear that if- any Native could still find a place 
in the land, it was not due to the action of the Govern- 
ment. In his campaign the Premier said other un- 
happy things which were diametrically opposed to his 
London speeches of two years before ; and while the 
Dutch colonists railed at him for trying to Anglicize 
the country, English speakers and writers justly 
accused him of speaking with two voices ; cartoonists, 
too, caricatured him as having two heads — one, they 
said, for London, and the second one for South 
Africa. 

The uncertain tenure by which Englishmen in the 
public service held their posts became the subject of de- 
bates in the Union Parliament, and the employment of 
Government servants of colour was decidedly precar- 
ious. They were swept out of the Railway and Postal 
Service with a strong racial broom, in order to make 
room for poor whites, mainly of Dutch descent. Conces- 
sion after concession was wrung from the Government 
by fanatical Dutch postulants for office, for Government 
doles and other favours, who, like the daughters of 
the horse-leech in the Proverbs of Solomon, continually 
cried, ** Give, give.'' By these events we had clearly 
turned the comer and were pacing backwards to 
pre-Union days, going back, back, and still further 
backward, to the conditions which prevailed in the 
old Republics, and (if a check is not applied) we shall 



26 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

steadily drift back to the days of the old Dutch 
East Indian administration. 

The Bill which proposed to ameliorate the Free 
State cruelty, to which reference has been made above, 
was dropped like a hot potato. Ministers made some 
wild and undignified speeches, of which the following 
spicy extract, from a speech by the Rt. Hon. Abraham 
Fischer to his constituents at Bethlehem, is a typical 
sample — 

What is it you want ? he asked. We have 
passed all the coolie ^ laws and we have passed all the 
Kafir laws. The ' Free ' State has been safeguarded and 
all her colour laws have been adopted by Parliament. 
What more can the Government do for you ? '' And 
so the Union ship in this reactionary sea sailed 
on and on and on, until she struck an iceberg — the 
sudden dismissal of General Hertzog. 

To the bitter sorrow of his admirers, General Hertzog, 
who is the fearless exponent of Dutch ideals, was relieved 
of his portfolios of Justice and Native Affairs — it was 
whispered as a result of a suggestion from London ; and 
then the Dutch extremists, in consequence of their 
favourite's dismissal, gave vent to their anger in the 
most disagreeable manner. One could infer frorn 
their platform speeches that, from their point of view, 
scarcely any one else had any rights in South Africa, 
and least of all the man with a black skin. 

In the face of this, the Government's timidity was al- 
most unendurable. They played up to the desires of the 
racial extremists, with the result that a deadlock over- 
took the administration. Violent laws like the Immi- 
gration Law (against British Indians and alien Asiatics) 
and the Natives' Land were indecently hurried through 
Parliament to allay the susceptibilities of " Free " State 
Republicans. No Minister found time to undertake 

^ A contemptuous South African term for British Indians. 



A RETROSPECT 


27 


such useful legislation as the Coloured People's Occu- 
pation Bill, the Native Disputes Bill, the Marriage 
Bill, the University Bill, etc., etc. An apology was 
demanded from the High Commissioner in London 
for delivering himself of sentiments which were felt 
to be too British for the palates of his Dutch employers 
in South Africa, and the Prime Minister had. almost 
to apologize for having at times so far forgotten him- 
self as to act more like a Crown Minister than a simple 
Africander. '' Free " State demands became so per- 
sistent that Ministers seemed to have forgotten the 
assurances they gave His Majesty's Government in 
London regarding the safety of His Majesty's coloured 
subjects within the Union. They trampled under foot 
their own election pledges, made during the first 
Union General Election, guaranteeing justice and fair 
treatment to the law-abiding Natives. 

The campaign, to compass the elimination of the 
blacks from the farms, was not at all popular with 
landowners, who made huge profits out of the renting 
of their farms to Natives. Platform speakers and 
newspaper writers coined an opprobrious phrase which 
designated this letting of farms to Natives as '' Kafir- 
fasrming," and attempted to prove that it was 
almost as immoral as '' baby-farming." But land- 
owners pocketed the annual rents, and showed no 
inclination to substitute the less industrious poor 
whites " for the more industrious Natives. Old 

Baas M , a typical Dutch landowner of the " Free " 

State, having collected his share of the crop of 1912, 
addressing a few words of encouragement to his native 
tenants, on the subject of expelling the blacks from 
the farms, said in the Taal : ** How dare any number 

of men, wearing tall hats and frock coats, living in 
Capetown hotels at the expense of other men, order 
me to evict my Natives ? This is my ground ; it 



28 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


cost my money, not Parliament's, and I will see them 
banged (barst) before I do it." 

It then became evident that the authority of Parlia-* 
ment would have to be sought to compel the obstinate 
landowners to get rid of their Natives. And the 
compliance of Parliament with this demand was the 
greatest Ministerial surrender to the Republican malcon- 
tents, resulting in the introduction and passage of the 
Natives' Land Act of 1913, inasmuch as the Act decreed, 
in the name of His Majesty the King, that pending 
the adoption of a report to be made by a commission, 
somewhere in the dim and unknown future, it shall 
be unlawful for Natives to buy or lease land, except 
in scheduled native areas. And under severe pains 
and penalties they were to be deprived of the bare 
human rights of living on the land, except as servants 
in the employ of the whites — rights which were 
never seriously challenged under the Republican 
regime, no matter how politicians raved against the 
Natives. 



CHAPTER II 

THE GRIM STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG, 
AND THE LATTER CARRIES THE DAY 

Woe unto them that decree imrighteous decrees, and that write griev- 
ousness which they have prescribed ; 

To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the fruit from 
the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that 
they may rob the fatherless. 

Isaiah. 

O N February i8, 1913, General L. Lemmer, mem- 
ber for Marico, Transvaal, asked the Minister 
of Lands : — (a) How many farms or portions of farms 
in the Transvaal Province have during the last three 
years been registered in the names of Natives ; (b) 
what is the extent of the land so registered ; and (c) 
how much was paid for it ? 

The Minister of Lands replied : (a) 78 farms ; (b) 
144,416 morgen ; and (c) £94,907. 

Some very disturbing elements suggest themselves 
in this question and in its prompt answer. A ques- 
tion of the kind should have taken some time to 
reach Pretoria from the seat of Parliament ; more 
time to search for and compile the necessary in- 
formation, and further time to get the answer to 
the Table of the House of Assembly in Capetown. 
For instance, on March ii Mr. T- L. Schreiner 
called for an explanation in connexion with the 
same return. He had to ask again on April i, 
the answer in each instance being that the required 

29 



30 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

information had been telegraphed for and would 
be laid on the table when it is available '' {vide Union 
Hansard, pp. 777 and 1,175). It was only on May 
13 — two months and two days after — that an answer 
to Mr. Schreiner's question of March ii could be 
furnished. 

Again, on May 20 Mr. Schreiner called for a similar 
return, embracing the four Provinces of the Union. ^ 
If it were so easy for General Lemmer to get a reply 
in regard to the Transvaal, where most of the registra- 
tion took place, it should have been relatively more 
easy to add the information from the Cape and Natal, 
since no registration could have taken place in the 
Orange '' Free " State, where Natives cannot buy 
land. But strange to say, all that Mr. Schreiner could 
get out of the Minister was a promise to furnish a 
reply when it is available, and it does not appear to 
be on record that it was ever furnished during that 
session. Therefore, a Native cannot be blamed for 
suspecting that when General Lemmer asked his 
question, the return was '' cut and dried " and available 
to be laid on the table as soon as it was called for. 

Another significant point is that the questioner did 
not want to know the extent of land bought by Natives, 
but of the land '' registered in their names " during 
the period ; and Mr. Schreiner was able to show later 
in the session by an analysis of the return that it 
mainly comprised land awarded to Native tribes by 
the Republican Government, some of it when they 
conquered the country. They include farms bought 
or awarded to Natives as long ago as the early 60 's and 
70's, but the owners were not able to obtain titles as 
the late Republican Government did not allow Natives 
to register land in their own names. They had been 

^ It does not appear to have occurred to any one to call for a return 
showing transfers of land from blacks to whites. 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 31 

held in trust for them by European friends or mis- 
sionaries, and it was only during the last three years 
that the owners claimed direct titles, which right 
was restored to them since the British occupation. 

But the Lemmer Return did its fell work. It 
scared every white man in the country. They got 
alarmed to hear that Natives had during the past 
three (!) years bought '' land to the extent of 50,000 
morgen per annum. 

Thanks to Mr. Schreiner's questions, however, the 
misleading features of the statistical scarecrow were 
revealed — but, unfortunately too late. 

ORIGIN OF THE TROUBLE 

On February 28, 1913, Mr. J. G. Keyter (a '' Free " 
State member) moved : That the Government be 
requested to submit to the House during the present 
session a general Pass and Squatters Bill to prohibit 
coloured people (i) from wandering about without a 
proper pass ; (2) from squatting on farms ; and (3) 
from sowing on the share system. 

Mr. T. P. Brain, ^ another Free " Stater, seconded 
the motion. 

Mr. P. G. W. Grobler,^ a Transvaaler, moved (as 
an amendment) to add at the end of the motion : 
'' and further to take effective measures to restrict the 
purchase and lease of land by Natives.'* 

Mr. Schreiner strongly protested against both the 
motion and the amendment. 

The Minister for Native Affairs® spoke somewhat 
against Mr. Ke5d:er's motion but promised to comply 

^ This gentleman died during 1913. 

" Mr. Grobler forfeited his seat when he was convicted of complicity in 
the recent rebellion. 

Hon. J. W. Sauer, Minister of Native Affairs, died a month after 
the Bill became law. 



32 


NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


with Mr. Grobler's amendment, which promise he 
redeemed by introducing a Natives' Land Bill. 

Before the Bill was introduced, the Minister made 
the unprecedented announcement that the Governor- 
General had given his assurance that the Royal Assent 
would not be withheld from the Natives' Land Bill. 
Section 65 of the South African Constitution provides 
that the King may disallow an Act of Parliament 
within twelve months after the Governor-General 
signed it. And the abrogation of the Constitution, 
as far as this Bill is concerned, literally gave licence 
to the political libertines of South Africa ; as, being 
thus freed from all legislative restraint, they wasted 
no further time listening to such trifles as reason 
and argument. 

The following are extracts from the debates on the 
Natives' Land Bill as reported in the Union Hansard 
of 1913. 

The adjourned debate on the motion for the second reading of the 
Natives Land Bill was resumed by 

Mr. J. X. Merriman (Victoria West). It was with very great re- 
luctance (the right hon. gentleman said) that he rose to speak on this 
measure. It would have been more convenient to have given a silent 
vote, but he felt, and he was afraid, that after many years of devoted 
attention to this question of the native policy of South Africa, he would 
not be doing his duty if he did not give this House — for what it was w^orth 
— the result of his experience through these years. 

He should like to emphasize a brighter side of the question, and that 
was to point out that the Natives, if they were well managed, were an 
invaluable asset to the people of this country. (Hear, hear.) Let them 
take our trade figures and compare them with the trade figures of 
the other large British Dominions. Our figures were surprising when 
measured by the white population, but if they took the richest Do- 
minion that there was under the British Crown outside South Africa, 
and took the trade value of those figures per head of the white 
population, and multiply those figures by our European population, 
then they might very well apply any balance they had to our native 
population, and then they would see, strangely enough, that upon that 
basis it worked out that the actual trade of three Natives was worth 
about that of one white man. That, of course, was a very imperfect 
way of looking at the value of these people, because the trade value of 
some of these Natives was far greater than the trade value of some of 
our white people. He had merely indicated these trade figures to show 
what an enormous asset we had in the Natives in that respect. Let them 
think what the industry of the Natives had done for us. Who had built 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 33 


our railways, who had dug our mines, and developed this country as far 
as it was developed ? Who had been the actual manual worker who 
had done that? The Native : the coloured races of this country. We must 
never forget that we owed them a debt in that respect — a debt not often 
acknowledged by what we did for them. Proceeding, he said that they 
ought to think what they owed to the docility of the Natives, and the 
wonderiiilly easy way in which they had been governed when treated 
properly. He also paid a tribute to the honesty of the Natives. 

What must strike any one was the fact that though this Bill was really, 
to a certain extent, a beginning, or was thought to be in certain quarters, 
of a revolution in their dealing with the native races, it was not even 
mentioned in the speech of the Governor-General, It fell upon them 
like a bolt from the blue. He remembered the afternoon. They had 
heard a very impassioned and very heated speech from the hon. member 
for Ficksburg on the enormous danger of squatting in the Free State, 
and that was the occasion for introducing a general statement of the 
policy of the Government towards the Natives and the introduction of 
this Bill. He did not think that that was the way they liked to see a 
thing of this magnitude approached. They often heard demands for 
what was called a general declaration of policy with regard to native 
affairs — a policy which should be applied to the highest civilized Native, 
the owner of a farm, and the naked barbarian. They could not do it. 
People who demanded a general declaration of that kind had not had the 
experience which some of them had had. The hon. member who spoke 
before him said that he was in favour of the underlying principle of the 
Bill, What was the underlying principle ? The underlying principle 
was what one read into the Bill. One hon. member read into it that it 
was the separation of the two races. That might have been done when 
the two races first came in contact at the Fish River, but it could not 
be done now. Since then they had been developing the country with 
the labour of these people. They had been advancing by our aid. They 
had mixed themselves up with these people in an inextricable fashion 
and then some said " Haul your native policy out of the drawer and 
begin with a policy of separation," He was sure that the hon. member 
who had brought in the Bill had no idea of that sort in his mind. Another 
person had the idea that they w'ere going to set up a sort of pale — a sort 
of kraal in which they were going to drive these people. Then another 
gentleman sneered at the policy hitherto adopted, and he said that one 
side said that the policy towards the Natives should be firm and just, 
while the other side said, that it should be just and firm. 

It seemed to him that they had not got sufficient information. Beyond 
the bald statistics which vv^ere given by the Minister in the course of his 
interesting and moderate speech, they had nothing. They were going 
into a thing that would stir South Africa from end to end, and which 
affected hundreds of thousands of both races. They had no information 
as to what were the ideas of the Natives, It was unfortunate that, owing 
to this lack of information, wrong ideas had got about wdth regard to this 
Bill. It was difficult to find out what the Native thought about these 
things ; he doubted whether anybody could say that he had got at the 
mind of the Native. The only way, and he must say that he did not 
^ke it as a real indication, was what they wrote in their newspapers. 
He was alarmed, but not surprised, at some of the articles in their news- 
papers, because they took their views from the heated speeches and 
writings in party newspapers all over the country, and they were very 
much alarmed. He thought that before a Bill of this sort was passed, 
there should be some attempt made to get their views. As far as one 

C 



34 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


section was concerned, the Bill was going to set up a sort of pale — that 
there was going to be a sort of kraal in which all the Natives were to be 
driven, and they were to be left to develop on their own lines. To allow 
them to go on their own lines was merely to drive them back into bar- 
barism ; their own lines meant barbarous lines ; their own lines were 
cruel lines. All along they had been bringing them away from their 
own lines. It reminded him of what an English writer said about a 
similar policy in Ireland, because when the English went to Ireland they 
regarded the Native Irish in the way some extreme people here regarded 
the Natives of South Africa. They thought they would root them out. 
They treated them as dogs, and thought that they were dogs. They 
set up a pale. They set the Irish within that pale, to develop upon their 
own lines, but there were always Englishmen living in that pale, just as 
in the same way they found Europeans living among Natives. Sir George 
Davis in describing this policy wrote that it was the intention of the 
Government to set up a separation between English and Irish, intending 
in time that the English should root out the Irish. If they changed the 
Irish for Natives they would see how the illustration would apply. A 
policy more foredoomed to failure in South Africa could not be initiated. 
It was a policy that would keep South Africa back, perhaps for ever. 
(Hear, hear.) What would be the effect of driving these civilized Natives 
back into reserves ? At the present time, every civilized man — if they 
treated him properly — every civilized man was becoming an owner of land 
outside native reserve, and therefore he was an asset of strength to the 
country. He was a loyalist. He was not going to risk losing his property. 
He was on the side of the European. If they drove these people back 
into reserve they became our bitterest enemies. Therefore, he viewed 
anything that tended that way with the gravest suspicion. Again, in 
this Bill there was not sufficient distinction between those Natives who 
tried to educate themselves and the ordinary raw barbarian. They 
were all classed under the word " Native." 

He came now to what was the main object of the Bill, and that was : to 
do away with the squatting evil. Why was there a squatting evil ? Was 
it the fault of the Native ? (An hon. member : No.) Was it the fault 
of the law ? (No.) They had got the most stringent laws concerning 

Natives of all the laws in the whole country, in the Province of which 
his hon. friend (Mr. Keyter) was a member. He did not think anything 
was more surprising than when they came to look at the increases in the 
native population in the Orange Free State. They had a huge native 
population in the Cape, and the increase during the census periods from 
1904 to 1911 — he wanted hon. members to pay some attention to this 
because it showed the value of legislation — the increase in the Cape Pro- 
vince during that period was 8-33 per cent. In Natal, which had a huge 
—in fact, an overwhelming — native population, curiously enough, the 
increase was the same, even to the actual decimal figure, viz., 8*33 per 
cent.: but some_ allowance must be made, because a large number of 
Natives were out at work in the mines. Now, in the Transvaal— and in 
taking the Transvaal figures these did not apply as regarded squatting 
because the increase was mainly due to the number of Natives employed 
m the mines. In the Transvaal the Natives increased by 30'! per c€nt 
Now, when they came to his friend's little State, where the most stringent 
laws were made to keep out the Natives, how much did they suppose 
the Natives increased in the Free State ? By no less than 44 per cent 
(Opposition cheers.) Was that the fault of the Natives ? No it was 
because—having the most stringent laws— the people found it 'best to 
evade those laws. (Hear, hear.) He hoped his hon. friend would be a 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 35 


little tolerant. Do let him pick the mote out of his own eye before he 
tried to pick the beam out of other people's. (Hear, hear.) In the 
Free State these laws were very severe ; for instance, punishmentt — 
amazing punishments — were given, and yet the result was the increase 
in five years by 44 per cent, of their native population. This was some- 
thing that they should take a warning by. They were going to do away 
with the squatter in appearance, but he would still survive as a labour 
tenant. They might do away with the labour tenant, and he would still 
be surviving as a labour servant. How was the Government to distin- 
guish between these ? They had in the Cape a law which stated how 
many labour tenants a man should have upon his farm. 

What they wanted in this country was administration and not more 
legislation, and if they were to put the laws which they had into force 
in the Free State at the present time he had no doubt that there would 
be a rebellion. (Hear, hear.) They would have platforms swarming 
with people who would say that they could not grow one bag of mealies 
without the Natives. But they had the laws to do it. Now they went 
and tried in this Bill to make a uniform law. Turning towards the Minis- 
ter, Mr. Merriman said ; " My poor friend ! that after all the years we 
had laboured together he of all people should be the author of a uniform 
law on native matters ! (Laughter.) I say this more in sorrow than in 
anger — (laughter) — because the conditions were totally different in the 
four Provinces." 

In the Free State, proceeded Mr. Merriman, the people had most ex- 
cellent laws from their point of view for keeping out the Natives — strin- 
gent, Draconian, and violent laws, but they were not carried out, and 
the Natives had flooded the country. All they wanted to do was to turn 
the Native from a tenant to a labour tenant, and then salvation would be 
at hand. He could not see very much difference between the two, except 
that one was a contented advancing man and the other a discontented 
man approaching very closely to the Russian serf — he was a soul. Shortly 
we should hear of a farm being up for sale with so many souls. 

In the Transvaal the problem had been complicated by the decisions of 
the Court and the curious way in which some ground had been given out 
in the Zoutpansberg district, where, he was told, farms had been given 
out on which the Natives had been living for years, and these farms — with 
the Natives on them — had come into the possession of companies and 
individuals, and now it was proposed to turn the Natives off. That 
would not be an agreeable thing, but he would not offer an opinion now 
as to the justice of it. 

He would like to revert to the state of things which had grown up under 
the Draconian laws of the Free State. According to a very interesting 
Blue-book containing reports of magistrates, one magistrate had reported 
that " the pernicious system of squatting was detrimental to the working 
farmer, the Native reaping the whole of the benefit." The man who 
worked generally reaped the whole benefit in the long run. In the Har- 
rismith district there were some 40,000 Natives against some 8,000 Euro- 
peans. How did they get there ? Having been a Free State burgher 
he knew that the Natives had not forced their way in. These Natives 
ploughed on the half-shares, and he would like to know whether they 
were labour tenants or squatters. If they were squatters it would require 
dexterous management to convert them into labour tenants. 
1 he Magistrate of Hoopstad, went on Mr. Merriman, had referred to the 
pernicious system of native squatters. But why did not the Free State 
magistrates do something and put the law in force ? That was the prin- 
cipal reason why the House was forced to pass that Bill without inform^k- 



36 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


tion, and without giving any' opportunity to people who had the deepest 
interest in this matter to have their views heard, or to let them know 
what the House was going to do because the magistrates in the Free 
State would not enforee the law. He did think that was rather hard. 
In conclusion Mr. Merriman said : I dare say I may have said a great 
many things which may be distasteful to my hon. friends, but I do claim 
their attention because at a time when they were not in such a dominant 
position as they are now, I pleaded for right and justice for them. There- 
fore, they should not take it amiss from me, because now they are in a 
dominant position, I plead also for justice, toleration, moderation, and 
delay in this matter. 

Mr. H. Mentz (Zoutpansberg) said the right hon. gentleman had earned 
their gratitude for the high tone in which he had carried the debate. The 
speech which he had delivered was a most instructive one, and although 
the speaker was not in entire agreement with him on all points, he was 
in agreement on the point that the matter was one to be handled with 
prudence, but it was to be regretted that under the Bill a Commission was 
to be appointed. The Minister should not listen to the request for a 
postponement of the question, by referring it to a Select Committee. If 
they were to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, it would never be passed 
this year. 

Mr. G. L. Steytler (Rouxville) expressed his thanks to the Government 
for bringing forward the Bill. He said he felt that it was not a complete 
solution of the whole question, but it was certainly a step in the right 
direction, 

Mr, A. Fawcus (Umlazi) said that as the representative of 70,000 Natives 
in Natal, not one of whom so far as he knew had a vote, he should like, 
on their behalf, to thank the right hon. member for Victoria West for 
the manner in which he had handled this question. In the course of his 
speech the right hon. gentleman asked, what did the Natives think about 
this Bill before the House? His (Mr. Fawcus') opinion was that the 
Natives did not think anything at all about it. He should not think there 
was one Native in a thousand in South Africa who was aware that this 
matter, so vitally affecting their future, was at present at issue. The hon. 
member for Middelburg had referred to the Natives as " schepsels." ^ 
He believed the day was rapidly passing away when we should refer 
to Natives as " schepsels." They were an easy-going folk, and they 
thought little about title deeds and land laws. So great was the 
Native's attachment to the land on which he lived, in many instances, 
that they could not rackrent him off it. These were the people that the 
Bill wished to dispossess and drive off the land. The figures placed before 
them showed that the land held by Europeans per head was fifty times the 
amount held per head by the Natives. Surely there was no need at the 
present time for legislation which would prevent Natives getting a little 
more land than they now had. He did not think it could be put down 
to the fault of the Native if he was willing to buy and live on land 
rather than pay rent. The figures given in this connexion were very 
instructive. Eight acres per head were held by the Natives in the Cape, 
six acres in Natal, about li acres in the Transvaal, and about one-third 
of an acre in the Free State. He thought this Bill was perhaps coming 
on a little before there was any necessity for it. 

Mr. C. Q. Fichardt (Ladybrand) said he felt very much that the Bill 
that was before the House did not carry out all that should be carried 
out, and that was equality of justice. If they were to deal fairly with the 
Natives of this country, then according to population they should give them 


^ Creatures. 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 37 


four-fifths of the country, or at least a half. How were they going to do 
that ? As he said in the earlier part of his remarks, he was prepared to 
accept the Bill as something to go on with, but he hoped that in the future 
it would not constitute a stumbling-block. He would much rather have 
seen that the matter had been gone into more fully, and that some scheme 
had been laid before them so that they might have more readily been able 
to judge how the Bill would work. . It was because of all these difficulties 
that he felt that they could only accept the Bill if it laid down that there 
was no intention of taking the country from the white people and hand- 
ing it over to the blacks. 

Mr. J. G* Keyter (Ficksburg) said he wished to openly denounce, and 
most emphatically so, that the people or the Government of the Orange 
Free State had treated the coloured people unreasonably or unjustly, or 
in any way oppressively. On the contrary, the O.F.S. had always 
treated the coloured people with the greatest consideration and the utmost 
justice. The O.F.S. had made what Mr. Merriman called stringent laws. 
He (Mr. Keyter) called them just laws. They told the coloured people 
plainly that the O.F.S. was a white man*s country, and that they intended to 
keep it so. (Hear, hear.) They told the coloured people that they were 
not to be allowed to buy or hire land, and that they were not going to tolerate 
an equality of whites and blacks ; and he said that they were not going 
to tolerate that in the future, and if an attempt were made to force that 
on them, they would resist it at any cost to the last,^ for if they did tolerate 
it, they would very soon find that they would be a bastard nation. His 
experience was that the Native should be treated firmly, kept in his place 
and treated honestly. They should not give him a gun one day and 
fight him for it the next day. They should tell him, as the Free State 
told him, that it was a white man's country, that he was not going to he 
allowed to buy land there or to hire land there, and that if he wanted to be 
there he must be in service. 

Mr. J. A. P. Van Der Merwe (Vredefort) deprecated sending the Bill 
to a Select Committee, arguing that the House itself should decide it. 
He referred to the difficulties experienced by farmers in the Free State. 
If a farmer refused to allow a Native to farm on the share system he simply 
refused to work. There were thousands of Natives on the farms there 
who hired ground and did little work. The farmers had to keep their 
children at home to do the work. Some of the Natives hired ground, 
did some sowing, then went to work in Johannesburg, and paid the owner 
of the farm half what he reaped from the harvest. That was not satis- 
factory. He was pleased to see the provisions the Minister proposed to 
make in this regard, and expressed the hope that the Native would only 
be tolerated among the whites as a labourer. The Bill would meet what 
he considered a great want, and, as it was an urgent matter, he hoped 
the proposal for a Select Committee would not be agreed to. 

Third Reading Debate. 

Sir Lionel Phillips (Yeoville) : But why should a Bill of this sort be 
brought before them now ? The Government in the past had not been 
bashful in the appointing of Commissions, and one question he would ask 
was why, in this important matter, the Government had not appointed a 
Commission to take all the evidence and then come to the House with 
a measure which the House would have to approve of. Instead of that, 

^ By passing the Bill, the Government conceded all the extravagant 
deinands of the " Free " Staters ; yet, a year later they took up arms 
against the Government. \ 


38 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


they were cancelling the rights they had in South Africa, and they were 
creating a very awkward hiatus between the time the Commission would 
be appointed and the time the Commission could define the areas which 
woula be regarded as white areas and the areas which would be regarded 
as native areas. That was the one serious blot upon this measure. 

He could see no justification, except that the hon. Minister, yielding 
to pressure from a certain section on that side of the House, had hastily 
brought on this measure. He thought from the speeches made in the 
House it was the consensus of opinion that Natives should not have farms 
in areas that were essentially white, just as it was desirable that white 
men should not be found in areas essentially native. -And especially 
when they told the native population that they were taking away from 
them a right they had to-day, and they were going to substitute that right 
by appointing a Commission, they were giving them very little justifica- 
tion for being satisfied with this measure. He did not think they were 
going to gain anything by putting the cart before the horse. He did not 
know if Mr. Schreiner was accurate, but he told them that, roughly, in 
the Transvaal, where the matter was most acute, the Native population 
had boi^ht something like 12,000 or 15,000 morgen of land in twelve 
years. That, he thought, showed there was no extreme urgency for the 
measure. To that extent he agreed entirely with the hon. member, and 
he believed the Minister would be well advised to send the Bill to a Select 
Committee, so that many of the details, which were extremely complicated 
and difi&cult, might be thrashed out in that atmosphere, rather than on 
the floor of the House. (Opposition cheers.) 

Mr. E. N. Grobler (Edent )urg) said : The present was one of the best 
measures that the Government had so far brought forward, and it appeared 
clear that they had a Government which truly represented the wishes 
of the public. It was impossible to delay the solution of the Native pro- 
blem, and legislation on the subject had for a long time past been asked 
for.^ At the same time, he did not entirely agree with the methods, 
proposed to be applied, and he did not like the system of allocating reserves 
for Natives. When once those reserves had been allocated, would it 
not result in injury to agriculture and cattle breeding ? The farmers 
would suffer from lack of labour, and that deficiency would be a growing 
one. Neither could he agree to the principle of expropriation of land 
belonging to whites in order to increase the size of the native reserves. 
He considered the Bill was a complicated one. The matter should be 
settled by way of taxation, in the following way. All Natives who were 
in the service of whites should be exempted from taxation, and treated 
as well as possible, and other Natives should be er>couraged to take similar 
service. There were enormous reserves where the Natives could go and 
live,* and if they refused to go there they should be required to pay a 
stiff tax. Then they would go and work for white people. The hon. 
member for Tembuland had offered many objections to the Bill. They 
should make that hon. member king of Tembuland. In a country of 
the blind a man with one eye would be king. 

Mr. P. Danoan (Fordsburg) said he hoped the Minister would not take 
the view of the last speaker. Under the Bill it would be possible for 


^ By a " solution of the Native problem," " Free " State farmers gener- 
ally mean the re-establishment of slavery, 

* It will be observed that these and similar mythological disquisitions 
subsequently formed General Botha's assurances to Mr. Harcourt. See 
Chapter XVI. But some light is thrown on the suyect of these visionary 
Native Reserves by Mr. Fawcus' speech based on official statisics (page 36). 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 39 

f 

farmers to accumulate on their land as many Natives as they could get, 
so long as they could use them as servants. (Labour cheers). So far as 
he could see, even if it were carried out to the extent that it was proposed 
to go, it would not very much reduce the social contact which at present 
existed between whites and natives. 

Sir W- B. Berry (Queenstown) said he would like to know why the 
Minister had run away from the Bill that had passed the second reading, 
and now tabled another Bill in the shape of many amendments. One 
would naturally complain that, seeing that they had in that House a 
Native Affairs Committee, a non-party committee, specially chosen to 
consider all matters relating to native affairs, that Bill, which was a most 
important matter and. dealt with native affairs from A to Z, should have 
been referred to that committee. The same thing happened last session 
in reference to a Bill the Minister of Native Affairs kept on the paper 
until nearly the end of the session, and the House had to take the very 
unusual step almost on the last day of moving that committee proceedings 
on that Bill be taken that day six months. He (Sir W. B. Berry) pro- 
posed to move a similar amendment to the motion now before the House. 
In the remarks he addressed when the Bill came up for second reading he 
had ventured to say that there was no call for a bill of that nature at all ; 
there was no need for a Bill revolutionizing the attitude of the Union with 
respect to the natives generally. The only clue they could get to the 
reason why the Bill was introduced was that a few die-hards on the other 
side of the House had given the Minister to understand that unless he 
brought in a Bill of that kind, or of a similarly drastic nature, the position 
of the Government was in danger. He hoped some of these die-hards 
would come forward that evening and tell them plainly and bluntly why 
they wanted that Bill, why they were going to thrust it on the country 
without any notice, and why they were calling on the House to revolu- 
tionize the whole tenour and the whole order of things in regard to land 
mattersjas far as the Natives were concerned. Proceeding, the hon. mem- 
ber said the only justification that had been offered for this Bill was that 
a large amount of land had been transferred from Europeans to Natives. 
An analysis of the return, however, showed that only sixteen farms in 
the Transvaal had been so transferred during the last three years. Surely 
that was not any justification why the European people of the Umon 
should get into a panic and why the administration of the day were seeking 
to place on the Statute Book this most drastic legislation. Another reason 
why he objected to this Bill was that it purported to appoint a Commission 
to investigate to what extent and in what parts and in what time land 
should be selected by the Commission for the purpose of being reserved 
as additional native areas within the Union. They were not given any 
guarantee that the Commission was going to be appointed nor any guar- 
antee that it would ever report, but at the same time whilst these inde- 
finite assurances were attempted to be given to the House there was no 
getting over this fact, that there was no time limit in the Bill by which 
the real enacting clause in the Bill was to have any cessation. When he 
spoke on this Bill before he supported it only on the understanding that 
a time limit was to be put in, or that It should be an annual Bill. He said 
unhesitatingly that the whole tendency of the Bill, as it stood at the 
second reading, and more especially as it stood with the amendments by 
the Minister on the notice paper, was to drive the Native peasant off the 
land. The only refuge that that Native had was the town. 

The country had not been prepared in any way for a Bill of this kind. 
A cry had been heard throughout the land against the iniquities proposed 
in the Bill. If it had been found absolutely necessary that legislation of 



40 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


this kind should be introduced, the least that could be expected was 
that ample time should be given to the Natives to thoroughly acquire a 
knowledge of the contents of the measure. That opportunity had not 
been given them, and in this respect there was a very serious grievance. 
For the good order and peace of the Union there was a very great danger 
ahead. He had understood from those well versed in native affairs that 
one of the greatest dangers that could threaten us was to give the Natives 
anything in the shape of a common grievance. Divide and rule had been 
a wise precaution in the government of the Nati<^es. When a common 
grievance was found by four or five million people one could understand 
how great that grievance must be. One amendment the Minister had 
put on the paper must give serious pause. The late Minister of Native 
Affairs issued to members last session a Squatters Bill. The greatest 
objection to that measure, and one which he thought led to its withdrawal, 
was that it proposed to remove thousands upon thousands of natives 
from land which they had been in the occupation of for scores of years. 
It was in consequence of the disturbance which that Bill caused through- 
out the Union that it was withdrawn. In one of the amendments on 
the paper the present Minister of Native Affairs brought back in a some- 
what clandestine manner the most objectionable feature of the Bill that 
was withdrawn. 

Mr. Speaker : The amendment is not yet before the House. 

Sir W. B. Berry : What Bill is it then that is to go into Committee ? 
(Hear, hear.) Is it the Bill which was read a second time or the Bill 
comprised in the Minister's amendments ? He moved that the House 
go into committee on the Bill this day six months. 

Mr. T. L. Schreiner (Tembuland), in seconding the amendment, said 
that sufficient notice had not been given of the provisions of the Bill, 
although the Natives, thanks to the time which had elapsed since the 
second reading, were better acquainted with the measure than they 
were a little while ago. 

Mr. Schreiner proceeded to quote opinions from native newspapers 
on the Bill. The Tsala ea Batho, of Kimberley, said : " We are standing 
on the brink of the precipice. We appealed to certain members of Par- 
liament against the suspension clause in Mr. Sauer's Land Bill, and the 
result of our appeal has been an agreement between Sir Thomas Smartt 
and the Minister to the effect that the first part of the Bill only be pro- 
ceeded with. The effect of this agreement is infinitely worse than the 
whole Bill. In its entirety, there were certain saving clauses, one of 
them practically excluding the Cape Province from the operation of the 
Bill. Under the present agreement, all these clauses are dropped, and 
section i of the Bill, which prohibits the sale of land between Europeans 
and Natives (pending the report of a future Commission) is applicable to 
all parts of the Union, including the Cape Province. Now, then, if this 
suspension clause becomes law, what is going to happen ? It is simply 
this ; Thht the whole land policy of the Union of South Africa is the 
land policy of the Orange Free State, and it will be as difficult to abro- 
gate that suspension as it is difficult to recall a bullet, once fired through 
some one's head, and resuscitate the victim. Our object then should be to 
prevent the pistol being fired off, as prevention is infinitely better than 
cure." One paper that he was quoting from was (Mr. Schreiner went 
on to say) pleased, because it believed that this Bill was going to Select 
Committee. There was another native paper, published in Natal, which 
acknowledged the efforts which the missionaries had made on behalf of 
the Natives in regard to this Bill. There was a native paper, published 
at Dundee, which said that, if the Bill were in the interests of the 
Natives, and the Government were actuated by a sincere regard for 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 41 


them, they would not have hesitated to publish it broadcast, instead 
of being in such haste to push the matter through the House. ^ 

Mr. Schreiner (continuing) referred to the resolution passed by the 
Natal Missionary Conference, and the views expressed by the Chairman 
of the Transvaal Missionary Conference in opposition to the Bill. He 
mentioned that it had been decided in Johannesburg to call a meeting 
of missionary societies throughout the Union, to determine what action 
could be taken in case clause 1 was proceeded with. He had also received 
a telegram from the Witwatersrand Church Council, stating that a tele- 
gram had been sent to the Minister strongly protesting against section i 
being enacted before the proposed Commission had thoroughly inves- 
tigated the whole question of alternative areas. Mr. Schreiner urged 
that, if they proceeded with this Bill, and passed clause i of the old Bill, 
and appointed a Commission, these restrictions with regard to purchase 
and sale, which the Natives had feared, and which the missionaries, on 
behalf of the Natives, feared and protested against, would become a fact. 
For that reason, he said they should rather put off the Bill. 

Every one was feeling the pressure of their legislative duties. Was this 
thejtime, therefore, for passing a measure of such a far-reaching character, 
and where every clause demanded the most careful consideration and 
scrutiny ? Was it the right thing because he had a majority at his back 
for the Minister to say that they must get this Bill through this session ? 
He held that this was not right. It was not fair to those who had the 
solution of the question at heart. (Cheers.) 

Sir E. H. Walton (Port Elizabeth, Central) said he entirely supported 
the amendment of the hon. member for Queen's Town. He had a tele- 
gram from a mass meeting of Natives held in Port Elizabeth, in which they 
hoped that the House would postpone decision on this question until the 
Commission had sat and reported. That seemed to him an entirely rea- 
sonable request, and it seemed all the more necessary that this should be 
done on account of the very large alterations that it had been found 
necessary to make in the Bill. 

They had native protests from all parts of South Africa against this 
measure, and when one saw what was proposed in this Act, they could 
not wonder at these protests. (Hear, hear.) Therefore he put it that 
these protests should receive fair consideration from members on all 
sides of the House. Legislation of this kind was unfortunate from the 
point of view of the Natives. The more intelligent of the Natives in 
this country were asking for time. They said : " You are putting this 
thing upon us, give us time to consider it. Allow this Commission to 
get to work, allow this Commission to put before us the provisions you 
are going to make for us, and when this is done we will submit to anything 
that is fair." No man, and the Native was just a man like the rest of us, 
liked the old arrangements to be disturbed, because it upset him, and 
the Native might oppose it, because he was frightened. They must 
admit that they had not given the native leaders and chiefs an oppor- 
tunity to come down to Cape Town and give their views. It was unfor- 
tunate that this measure had been more or less rushed. There was no 
mention of it in the Governor-General's speech, and therefore the Natives 
were not prepared for the consideration of the question. 

Mr. M. ;Arexandei (Cape Town, Castle) said he was still of opinion that 
a very dangerous principle was introduced in the Bill, especially so far 
as the Cape was concerned. In the speech delivered by the Govemor- 


^ All efforts to induce the South African Government to circulate 
translations of the Natives' Land Act among the Natives of the Union 
have proved fruitless. — Author, 



42 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


General at the opening af the session there was not the slightest reference 
to the present measure, which apparently had been brought in as an 
afterthought, and something must have occurred after the Govemor- 
General's speech was delivered, otherwise one could not conceive of such 
ah important Bill being omitted from the speech. As it was the Bill 
would simply hang things up until the Commission reported, and now 
the House would be legislating in the dark. The vast majority of Natives 
had declared themselves to be against the Bill. He had had no desire 
whatever that party capital should be made out of the measute — (hear, 
hear) — but he desired to see a measure which would bear the mark of 
statesmanship, and not of panic and hurry. Their Commission could 
report before next session, and then in the early stages of the session a Bill 
could be introduced and be adopted on its merits. In the interests of 
South Africa, in the interests of the Natives, and in the interests of just 
legislation let the Government withdraw the Bill, and appoint a Com- 
mission, and then justice and not injustice would be done. (Hear, hear.) 

Dr. A. H. Watldns (Barkly) said that there was a tacit understanding 
that the Minister would refer this Bill, if he were not prepared to accept 
a purely temporary measure, to a Select Committee. During the three 
years of the Union Parliament every matter practically dealing with 
Natives had been brought before the Select Committee on Native Affairs 
and their opinion had been asked. For some reason, which it was diffi- 
cult for him to understand, the Minister had not seen fit to carry out that 
tourse. Sixteen days had elapsed since the second reading of this Bill 
was taken on which the Select Committee could have sat morning after 
morning and dealt with the Bill. 

The necessity of passing only a temporary measure instead of appearing 
to pass a measure which would permanently deal with this question, 
was more evident to-night than when they took the second reading. 

Mr. M. Meyler (Weenen) said that he would support the motion of 
Sir Bisset Berry. He thought it would be a great injustice to the Natives, 
and especially the Natives of Natal, who really knew nothing of this 
measure, to force it through now. Since the second reading, his attention 
had been drawn to certain provisions in this Bill, which made it more 
dangerous still to hurry legislation, because he found that, although there 
was an exemption in the Bill as regarded agreements lawfully entered 
into, the vast majority of the agreements at present in force amongst the 
Natives of Natal were not strictly lawful, according to their Statute law. 
As they had no less than 380,000 Natives squatting on private lands in 
Natal, according to the Minister's own figures, it would be a fatal mistake 
to do anything to upset these people, until they had something ready to 
provide for them instead. The difficulty was that under the Natal law 
no oral contract was binding for more than twelve months, and many of 
those squatters had not got oral contracts, but were more or less on suffer- 
ance on the farms. It would be a great danger to pass legislation which 
would lead to the moving of a large portion of these people before they 
got an inch of land provided for their use. He objected to legislation 
being brought forward too hurriedly, and when they had got 4^ millions 
of Natives, only an infinitesimal portion of whom could possibly know the 
nature of the Bill, and seeing that it affected them as well as the white 
population, they had a perfect right to have it explained to them by the 
Government officials and let their members of Parliament for the divisions 
in which they lived give their opinions on the question. That would 
take months, and it was impossible to get a proper opinion of the Natives 
until hon. members had been away from the House for some time. The 
Right Hon. the Prime Minister a(hiiitted they should stand as the guar- 



STRUGGLE BETWEEN RIGHT AND WRONG 43 


dians of the Natives, and admitted that they should go slowly, and he 
hoped the hon. Minister would be willing to reconsider the Bill and allow 
it to be put off, and let them have an interim report, at any rate, from the 
Commission, before they were asked to pass legislation in that matter. 

The Bill was contested at every stage and numerous 
divisions were challenged. In each instance, the 
Speaker would put the Question, and the '' steam- 
roller would go to work with the inevitable result. 
The division lists ranged from 17 against 71 to 32 
against 60, the majority in each case being in favour 
of repression. It would be just as well to give at 
least one of these division lists. The English names 
in the majority are those of some Natal members 
(Ministerialists) or representatives of purely Dutch 
constituencies : — 


DIVISION 

Dr. A. H. Watkins (Barkly) 
called for a division, which was 
taken with the following result. 

Ayes — 32. 

Andrews, William Henry 
Baxter, William Duncan 
Berry, William Bisset 
Blaine, George 
Boydell, Thomas 
Brown, Daniel Maclaren 
Creswell, Frederic Hugh Page 
Duncan, Patrick 
Fawcus, Alfred 
Fitzpatrick, James Percy 
Henderson, James 
Henwood, Charlie 
Hunter, David 
J agger, John William 
King, John Gavin 
Long, Basil Kellett 
Macaulay, Donald 
Madeley, Walter Bayley 
Meyler, Hugh Mowbray 
Nathan, Emile 
Oliver, Henry Alfred 
Quinn, John William 
Rockey, Willie 
Runciman, William 
Sampson, Henry William 
Schreiner, Theophilus Lyndall 
Searle, James 
Smartt, Thomas William 


Walton, Edgar Harris 
Watkins, Arnold Hirst 
Morris Alexander and J. Hewat, 
tellers. 

Noes — 57. 

Alberts, Johannes Joachim ' 
Becker, Heinrich Christian 
Bosman, Hendrik Johannes 
Botha, Louis 
Brain, Thomas Phillip 
Burton, Henry 
Clayton, Walter Frederick 
Cronje, Frederik Reinhardt 
Currey, Henry Latham 
De Beer, Michiel Johannes 
De Jaeger, Andries Lourens 
De Waal, Hendrik 
Du Toit, Gert Johan Wilhelm 
Geldenhuys, Lourens 
Graaff, David Pieter de Villiers 
Griffin, William Henry 
Grobler, Evert Nicolaas 
Grobler, Pieter Gert Wessel 
Joubcrt, Christiaan Johannes 
J acobus 

Joubert, Jozua Adriaan 
Key ter, Jan Garhard 
Kuhn, Pieter Gysbert 
Lemmer, Lodewyk Amoldus 
Slabbert 

Maasdorp, Gysbert Henry 
Malan, Francois Stephanus 
Marais, Johannes Henoch 



44 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Marais, Pieter Gerhardus 
Merriman, John Xavier 
Meyer, Izaak Johannes 
Myburgh, Marthinus Wilhelmus 
Neethling, Andrew Murray 
Neser, Johannes Adriaan 
Nicholson, Richard Granville 
Oothuisen, Ockert Almero 
Orr, Thomas, 

Rademeyer, Jacobus Michael 
Sauer, Jacobus Wilhelmus 
Serfontein, Hendrik Philippus 
Smuts, Jan Christiaan 
Smuts, Tobias 

Steyl, Johannes Petrus Gerhardus 
Steytler, George Louis 


j Theron, Hendrik Schalk 
1 Theron, Petrus Jacobus George 
Van der Merwe, J ohannes Adolph P. 
Van der Walt, Jacobus 
Van Eeden, Jacobus Willem 
Van Heerden, Hercules Christian 
Venter, Jan Abraham 
Vermaas, Hendrik Cornelius 
Wilhelmus 

Vintcent, Alwyn Ignatius 
Vosloo, Johannes Amoldus 
Watt, Thomas 

Wilcocks, Carl Theodorus Muller 
Wiltshire, Henry 

H. Mentz and G. A. Louw, tellers. 



CHAPTER III 

THE natives' land ACT 

I blush to think that His Majesty's representative signed a law like 
this, and signed it in such circumstances. 

Rev. Amos Burnet (Chairman and General 
Superintendent of the Transvaal and Swazie- 
land District, Wesleyan Methodist Church). 

U P to now we have dealt with the history of the 
Land Act from its commencement, and all 
the speeches and official documents we have men- 
tioned hitherto say nothing about restricting Europeans 
in their ownership of land. And no matter what 
other principles one might read into the Act, it would 
be found that the principles underlying it were those 
of extending the " Free State land laws throughout 
the Union — an extension which Natives would be 
prohibited from investing their earnings in land whereon 
they could end their days in peace. 

There seems to be good reason for believing that 
the Government were advised, by the legal advisers 
of the Crown, that the Natives' Land Bill would be class 
le^slation of a kind that would never be allowed by 
His Majesty's Government. The originators of the 
Bill, however, were determined so to circumvent 
the constitutional quibble raised by the legal ad- 
visers as to seal our doom ; and by adroitly mani- 
pulating its legal phrases, it seems that it was 
recasted in such a manner as to give it a sem- 
blance of a paper restriction on European encroach- 

43 



46 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

ment on native rights. But class legislation the Act 
is, for whereas in his travels about South Africa, since 
the passing of this Act, the author has met many a 
native lamily with their stock, turned out by the Act 
upon the roads, he never met one white man so hounded 
by the same Act, and debarred from living where he 
pleased. 

The squatters form a particular section of the com- 
munity specifically affected by the Land Act ; and 
there is no such person in South Africa as a white 
squatter. Although it is insistently affirmed that 
the law applies both to Europeans and Natives, the 
conclusion cannot be avoided that it is directed ex- 
clusivelyi against the Native, This is the naked 
truth that turns all other explanations of the fact into 
mere shuffling and juggling. And the reader will 
find that in Section ii, at the end of the statute which 
is here reproduced (whether the omission of Euro- 
peans was a mistake of the Parliamentary draftsmen, 
or the printers, we know not), it is expressly stated 
that ''this Act may be cited for all purposes as the 
Natives^ Land Act, 1913.'' Who, then, will continue to 
argue that it was intended for Europeans as well ? 

* 

No. 27, T913.] 

ACT 

TO 

Make further provision as to the purchase and leasing of 
Land by Natives and other Persons in the several parts 
of the Union and for other purposes in connection with 
the ownership and occupation of Land by Natives and 
other Persons. 

T)E IT ENACTED by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate 
and the House of Assembly of the Union of South Africa, as fol- 
lows : — 

1 . (i) From and after the commencement of this Act, land outside 
the scheduled native areas shall, until Parliament, acting upon the report 
of the commission appointed under this Act, shall have made other pro- 
vision, be subjected to the following provisions, that is to say : — 



THE NATIVES' LAND ACT 


47 


Except wit/h the approval of the Governor-General — 

(?) a native shall not enter into any agreement or transaction for 

the purchase, hire, or other acquisition from a person other than 
a native, of any such land or of any right thereto, interest therein, 
or servitude thereover ; and 

(?) a person other than a native shall not enter into any a^eement 

or transaction for the purchase, hire, or other acquisition from 
a native of any such land or of any right thereto, interest therein, 
or servitude thereover. x 

(2) From and after the commencement of this Act, no person other 
than a native shall purchase, hire or in any other manner whatever acquire 
any land in a scheduled native area or enter into any agreement or trans- 
action for the purchase, hire or other acquisition, direct or indirect, of 
any such land or of any right thereto or interest therein or servitude there- 
over, except with the approval of the Governor-General. 

(3) A statement showing the number of approvals granted by the 
Governor-General under sub-sections (i) and (2) of this section and giving 
the names and addresses of the persons to whom such approvals were 
granted, the reasons for granting the same, and the situation of the lands 
in respect of which they were granted, shall, within six weeks after the 
commencement of each ordinary session of Parliament, be laid upon the 
Tables of both Houses of Parliament. 

(4) Every agreement or any other transaction whatever entered into 
in contravention of this section shall be null and void ab initio. 

2 . (i) As soon as may be after the commencement ot this Act the 
Governor-General shall appoint a commission whose functions shall be 
to inquire and report — 

(a) what areas should be set apart as areas within which natives 
shall not be permitted to acquire or hire land or interests in 
land ; 

(&) what areas should be set apart as areas within which persons 
other than natives shall not be permitted to acquire or hire 
land or interests in land. 

The commission shall submit w'ith any such report — 

(i) descriptions of the boundaries of any area which it proposes should 

be so set apart ; and 

(ii) a map or maps showing every such area. 

(2) The commission shall proceed with and complete its inquiry and 
present its reports and recommendations to the Minister within two years 
after the commencement of this Act, and may present interim reports 
and recommendations : Provided that Parliament may by resolution 
extend (if necessary) the time for the completion of the commission's 
inquiry. All such reports and recommendations shall be laid by the 
Minister, as soon as possible after the receipt thereof, upon the Tables of 
both Houses of Parliament. 

8 . (i) The commission shall consist of not less than five persons, and 
if any member of the commission die or resign or, owing to absence or 
any other reason, is unable to act, his place shall be filled by the Governor- 
General. 

(2) The commission may delegate to any of its members the carrying 
out of any part of an inquiry which under this Act it is appointed to hold 
and may appoint persons to assist it or to act as assessors thereto or with 
any naembers thereof delegated as aforesaid, and may regulate its own 
procedure. 

, ^3) recommendations of the majority of the commission 

snail be deemed to be the reports and recommendations of the commis- 



48 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

sion : Provided that any recommendations of any member who dissents 
from the majority of the commission shall, if signed by him, be included 
in any such report aforesaid. 

(4) The commission or any member thereof or any person acting as 
assistant, or assessor, or secretary thereto may enter upon any land for 
the purposes of its inquiries and obtain thereon the information necessary 
to prosecute the inquiries. The commission shall without fee or other 
charge have access to the records and registers relating to land in any 
public office or in the office of any divisional council or other local authority. 

4 * (i) For the purposes of establishing any such area as is described 
in section two, the Governor-General may, out of moneys which Parliament 
may vote for the purpose, acquire any land or interest in land. 

(2) In default of agreement with the owners of the land or the holders 
of interests therein the provisions of the law in force in the Province in 
which such land or interest in land is situate relating to the expropriation 
of land for public purposes shall apply and, if in any Province there be 
no such law, the provisions of Proclamation No. 5 of 1902 of the Transvaal 
and any amendment thereof shall mutatis mutandis apply. 

6 . (i) Any person who is a party to any attempted purchase, sale, 
hire or lease, or to any agreement or transaction which is in contravention 
of this Act or any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence 
and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds or, 
in default of payment, to imprisonment with or without hard labour 
for a period not exceeding six months, and if the act constituting the 
offence be a continuing one, the offender shall be liable to a further fine 
not exceeding five pounds for every day which that act continues. 

(2) In the event of such an offence being committed by a company, 
corporation, or other body of persons (not being a firm or partnership), 
every director, secretary, or manager of such company, corporation, or 
body who is within the Union shall be liable to prosecution and punish- 
ment and, in the event of any such offence being committed by a firm or 
partnership, every member of the firm or partnership who is within the 
Union shall be liable to prosecution and punishment. 

6 . In so far as the occupation by natives of land outside the scheduled 
native areas may be affected by this Act, the provisions thereof shall be 
construed as being in addition to and not in substitution for any law in 
force at the commencement thereof relating to such occupation ; but in 
the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Act and the pro- 
visions of any such law, the provisions of this Act shall, save as is specially 
provided therein, prevail : 

Provided that — 

(?) nothing in any such law or in this Act shall be construed as 
restricting the number of natives who, as farm labourers, may 
reside on any farm in the Transvaal ; 

(?) in any proceedings for a contravention of this Act the burden 

of proving that a native is a farm labourer shall be upon the 
accused ; 

[c) until Parliament, acting upon the report of the said commission, 
has made other provision, no native resident on any farm in the 
Transvaal or Natal shall be liable to penalties or to be removed 
from such farm under any law, if at the commencement of this 
Act he or the head of his family is registered for taxation or 
other purposes in the department of Native Affairs as being 
resident on such farm, nor shall the owner of any such farm be 
liable to the penalties imposed by section five in respect of the 
occupation of the land by such native ; but nothing herein 



THE NATIVES' LAND ACT 


contained shall affect any right possessed by law by an owner 
or lessee of a farm to remove any native therefrom. 

7 . (i) Chapter XXXIV of the Orange Free State Law Book and Law 
No. 4 of 1895 of the Orange Free State shall remain of full force and effect, 
subject to the modifications and interpretations in this section provided, 
and sub-section (i) (a) of the next succeeding section shall not apply to 
the Orange Free State. 

(2) Those heads of families, with their families, who are described in 
article twenty of Law No. 4 of 1895 of the Orange Free State shall in the 
circumstances described in that article be deemed to fall under the pro- 
visions of Ordinance No. 7 of 1904 of that Province or of any other law 
hereafter enacted amending or substituted for that Ordinance. 

(3) Whenever in Chapter XXXIV of the Orange Free State Law Book 
the expressions " lease *' and " leasing " are used, those expressions shall 
be construed as including or referring to an agreement or arrangement 
whereby a person, in consideration of his being permitted to occupy land, 
renders or promises to render to any person a share of the produce thereof, 
or any valuable consideration of any kind whatever other than his own 
labour or services or the labour or services of any of his family. 

8 . (i) Nothing in this Act contained shall be construed as, — 

(?) preventing the continuation or renewal (until Parliament acting 

upon the report of the said commission has made other pro- 
vision) of any agreement or arrangement lawfully entered into 
and in existence at the commencement of this Act which is a 
hiring or leasing of land as defined in this Act ; or 

(?) invalidating or affecting in any manner whatever any agreement 

or any other transaction for the purchase of land lawfully entered 
into prior to the commencement of this Act, or as prohibiting 
any person from purchasing at any sale held by order of a com- 
petent court any land which was hypothecated by a mortgage 
bond passed before the commencement of this Act ; or 

(c) prohibiting the acquisition at any time of land or interests in 

land by devolution or succession on death, whether under a 
will or on intestacy ; or 

[d) preventing the due registration in the proper deeds office (when- 

ever registration is necessary) of documents giving effect to 
any such agreement, transaction, devolution or succession as 
is in this section mentioned ; or 

{e) prohibiting any person from claiming, acquiring, or holding 
any such servitude as under Chapter VII, of the Irrigation and 
Conservation of Waters Act, 1912, he is specially entitled to 
claim, acquire, or hold ; or 

(/) in any way altering the law in force at the commencement of this 
Act relating to the acquisition of rights to minerals, precious 
or base metals or precious stones ; or 
(g) applying to land within the limits in which a municipal council, 
town council, town board, village management board, or health 
committee or other local authority exercises jurisdiction ; or 
{h) applying to land held at the commencement of the Act by any 
society carrying on, with the approval of the Governor-General, 
educational or missionary work amongst natives ; or 
(i) prohibiting the acquisition by natives from any person what- 
ever of land or interests in land in any township lawfully estab- 
lished prior to the commencement of this Act, provided it is a 
condition of the acquisition that no land or interest in land in 
such township has at any time been or shall in future be, trans- 
ferred except to a native or coloured person ; or 



50 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


(/) permitting the alienation of land or its diversion from the pur- 
poses for which it was set apart if, under section one hundred 
and forty-seven of the South African Act, 1909, or any other law, 
such land could not be alienated or so diverted except under 
the authority of an Act of Parliament ; or 

{k) in any way modifying the provisions of any law whereby mort- 
gages of or charges over land may be created to secure advances 
out of public moneys for specific purposes mentioned in such 
law and the interest of such advances, or whereunder the mort- 
gagee or person having the charge may enter and take possession 
of the land so mortgaged or charged except that in any sale of 
such land in accordance with such law the provisions of this 
Act shall be observed. 

(2) Nothing in this Act contained which imposes restrictions upon the 
acquisition by any person of land or right thereto, interests therein, or 
servitudes thereover, shall be in force in the Province of the Cape of Good 
Hope, if and for so long as such person would, by such restrictions, be pre- 
vented from acquiring or holding a qualification whereunder he is or 
may become entitled to be registered as a voter at parliamentary elections 
in any electoral division in the said Province. 

9 . The Governor-General may make regulations for preventing the 
overcrowding of huts and other dwellings in the stadts, native villages 
and settlements and other places in which natives are congregated in 
areas not under the jurisdiction of any local authority, the sanitation of 
such places and for the maintenance of the health of the inhabitants 
thereof. 

10 . In this Act, unless inconsistent with the context, — 

" scheduled native area " shall mean any area described in the Schedule 
to this Act ; 

" native " shall mean any person, male or female, who is a member 
of an aboriginal race or tribe of Africa ; and shall further include any 
company or other body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, if the 
persons who have a controlling interest therein are natives ; 

" interest in land " shall include, in addition to other interest in land, 
the interest which a mortgagee of, or person having charge over, land 
acquires under a mortgage bond or charge ; 

" Minister " shall mean the Minister of Native Affairs ; 

" farm labourer " shall mean a native who resides on a farm and is 
bona fide, but not necessarily continuously employed by the owner or 
lessee thereof in domestic service or in farming operations : 

Provided that — 

(a) if such native reside on one farm and is employed on another 

farm of the same owner or lessee he shall be deemed to have 
resided, and to have been employed, on one and the same farm ; 

(6) such native shall not be deemed to be bona fide employed unless 
he renders ninety days' service at least in one calendar year on 
the farm occupied by the owner or lessee or on another farm 
of the owner or lessee and no rent is paid or valuable considera- 
tion of any kind, other than service, is given by him to the 
owner or lessee in respect of residence on such farm or farms. 

A person shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to hire land if, in 
consideration of his being permitted to occupy that land or any portion 
thereof — 

{a) he pays or promises to pay to any person a rent in money ; or 

(b) he renders or promises to render to any person a share of the 

produce of that land, or any valuable consideration of any kind 



THE NATIVES' LAND ACT 51 

whatever other than his own labour or services or the labour 
or services of his family. 

11 . This Act may be cited for all purposes as the Natives' Land Act, 1913. 

The foregoing result of a legislative jumble is the 
law/' and this law, like Alexander the copper^ith, 
'' hath done us much harm.'" Mr. Sauer carried his 
Bill less by reason than by sheer force of numbers, and 
partly by promises which he afterwards broke. Among 
these broken promises was the definite assurance he 
gave Parliament that the Bill would be referred to 
the Select Committee on Native Affairs, so that the 
Natives, who are not represented in Parliament, 
their European friends and the Missionary bodies 
on behalf of the Natives, could be able at the proper 
time to appear before this committee and state any 
objection which they might have to the Bill. But 
when that time came, the Minister flatly refused to 
refer it to the committee. This change of front is 
easily explained, because the weight of evidence 
which could have been given before any Parliamentary 
committee would have imperilled the passage of the 
Bill. 

As might have been expected, the debate on the 
Bill created the greatest alarm amongst the native 
population, for they had followed its course with 
the keenest interest. Nothing short of a declaration 
of war against them could have created a similar 
excitement, although the hope was entertained in 
some quarters, that a body of men like the Mini- 
sterialists in Parliament (a majority of whom are 
never happier than when attesting the Christian 
character of their race) would in course of days 
attend the Holy Communion, remember the nth 
Commandment, and do unto others as they would 
that men should do unto them. Our people, in fact a 
number of them, said amongst themselves that even 



52 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

Dutchmen sing Psalms — all the Psalms, including 
the 24th ; and, believing as they did that Dutch- 
men could have no other religion besides the one 
recommended in the New Testament and preached 
by the predikants of the Dutch Reformed Church, 
were prepared to commend their safety to the influ- 
ence of that sweet and peaceable religion. However, 
some other Natives, remembering what took place 
before the South African war, took a different view 
of these religious incidents. Those Natives, especially 
of the old Republics, knew that the only dividing 
fence between the Transvaal Natives and complete 
slavery was the London Convention ; they, therefore, 
now that the London Convention in fact had ceased 
to exist, had evil forebodings regarding the average 
Republican's treatment of the Natives, which was 
seldom influenced by religious scruples, and they 
^did not hesitate to express their fears. 

Personally we must say that if any one had told 
us at the beginning of 1913, that a majority of mem- 
bers of -the Union Parliament were capable of passing 
a law like the Natives' Land Act, whose object is to 
prevent the Natives from ever rising above the posi- 
tion of servants to the whites, we would have regarded 
that person as a fit subject for the lunatic asylum. 
But the passing of that Act and its operation have 
rudely forced the fact upon us that the Union Parlia- 
ment is capable of producing any measure that is sub- 
versive of native interests ; and that the complete 
arrest of native progress is the object aimed at in their 
efforts to include the Protectorates in their Union. 
Thus we think that their sole reason for seeking to 
incorporate Basutoland, Swaziland and Bechuanaland 
is that, when they have definitely eliminated the 
Imperial factor from South Africa, as they are unmis- 
takably trying to do, they may have a million more 



THE NATIVES' LAND ACT 53 

laves than if the Protectorates were excluded. 

In this connexion, the realization of the prophecy 
of an old Basuto became increasingly believable to 
us. It was to this effect, namely : That the Imperial 
Government, after conquering the Boers, handed 
back to them their old Republics, and a nice little 
present in the shape of the Cape Colony and Natal 
— the two English Colonies. That the Boers are now 
ousting the Englishmen from the public service, 
and when they have finished with them, they will 
make a law declaring it a crime for a Native to live 
in South Africa, unless he is a servant in the employ 
of a Boer, and that from this it will be just one step 
to complete slavery." This is being realized, for 
to-day we have, extended throughout the Union of 
South Africa, a " Free " State law which makes it 
illegal for Natives to live on farms except as servants 
in the employ of Europeans. There is another 
" Free " State law, under which no Native may live 
in a municipal area or own property in urban localities. 
He can only live in town as a servant in the employ 
of a European, And if the followers of General 
Hertzog are permitted to dragoon the Union Govern- 
ment into enforcing Free " State ideals against the 
Natives of the Union, as they have successfully done 
under the Natives' Land Act, it will only be a matter 
of time before we have a Natives' Urban Act enforced 
throughout South Africa. Then we will have the 
banner of slavery fully unfurled (of course, under 
another name) throughout the length and breadth 
of the land. 

When the Natives' Land Bill was before Parliament, 
meetings were held in many villages and locations 
in protest against the Ministerial surrender to the 
Republicans, of which the Bill was the outcome. 
At the end of March, 1913, the Native National Con- 



54 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


gress met in Johannesburg, and there a deputation 
was appointed to go to Capetown and point out to 
the Government some, at least, of the harm that 
would follow legislation of the character mapped 
out in Parliament on February 28 when the Land 
Act was first announced. They were to urge that 
such a measure would be exploitation of the cruelest 
kind, that it would not only interfere with the economic 
independence of the Natives, but would reduce them 
for ever to a state of serfdom, and degrade them as 
nothing has done since slavery was abolished at the 
Cape. Missionaries also, and European friends of 
the Natives, did not sit still. Resolution after resolu- 
tion, telegraphic and other representations, were 
made to Mr. Sauer, from meetings in various parts 
of the country, counselling prudence. Even such 
societies as the Transvaal Landowners, who had 
long been crying for a measure to separate whites 
from blacks, and vice versa, urged that the Bill should 
not be passed during the same session in which it 
was introduced, that the country should be given an 
opportunity to digest it, in order, if necessary, to 
suggest amendments. The Missionary bodies, too, 
represent a following of Natives numbering hundreds 
of thousands of souls, on whose behalf they pleaded 
for justice. These bodies urged that before passing 
a law, prohibiting the sale and lease of land to Natives, 
and expelling squatters from their homes, the Govern- 
ment should provide locations to which the evicted 
Natives could go. But all these representations 
made no impression upon the Government, who, 
instead, preferred to act upon the recommendation 
of thirteen diminutive petitions (signed in all by 304 
Dutchmen in favour of the Bill) ^ than to be guided 

^ One oi these thhleen pehtioiis had on\7 ioni 
but one better than that of the Tooley Street tailors. 



THE NATIVES^ LAND ACT 


55 


by the overwhelming weight of public opinion that 
was against its passage. Thus it became clear that 
the Native's position in his own country was not an 
enviable one, for once a law was made prohibiting the 
sale of landed property to Natives, it would be almost 
impossible to get a South African Parliament to 
amend it. 

The Government, which at the beginning assured 
Parliament of their humane intentions, proceeded to 
delete the mildest clauses of the measure and to 
insert some very harsh ones ; and almost each time 
that the Bill came before the House, one or two fresh 
drastic clauses were added. But it is- comforting 
to note that even Parliament was not entirely satis- 
fied with this, its heroic piece of legislation. Thus 
Mr. Meyler of Natal did, as only a lawyer could with 
a view to recasting the Bill, some very useful work 
in pointing out the possible harm with which the 
Bill was fraught. We wish that his clever speeches 
and observations (much of which have come true), 
might yet be sifted out of the big Parliamentary 
Reports, and published in a concise little pamphlet. 

Sir David Hunter, another member of Natal, 
expressed himself as follows : — 

While every one seemed animated with a desire to do what was right 
just to the Natives, there was a feeling that certain of the details of 
the measure required amendment. He was more than pleased when the 
Minister closed the debate by a speech in which he seemed to be willing 
to meet the wishes of those in the House who thought that amendment 
was required. He could not have imagined that the Bill would develop 
into the shape into which it had developed, and had he known that so 
preat an alteration would take place in the general effect of the measure 
from what was foreshadowed by the hon. Minister when he had made 
that interesting speech on the second reading he (the speaker) could not 
have conscientiously voted for the second reading. He would have been 
better pleased had a resolution been taken not to bring in a Bill until the 
Commission had reported. That was the position he had taken up all 
through and he would much rather now that the matter should be dealt 
with in that way. If, howeverj the Bill was to be pressed through there 
gttarantees in it which should allay all suspicion. Anything 
people teqvhied: lo he done and ahon\d he 

P ea before them a long time before the change look place, 



56 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


there would yet be some steps taken to give them a greater sense of security. 
To give some idea of the feeling in the minds of the Natives he read a 
letter from a gentleman in Natal, largely interested in the Natives, which 
had expressed the opinion that the Natives stood uncompromisingly 
against any change in their present status until the Commission had 
reported. He hoped the hon. Minister would even yet endeavour to do 
something to meet their views. 

Mr. C. H. Haggar (Roodepoort) said that from the point of those who 
had worked successfully in turning the uncivilized man into the civilized 
man the Bill was bound to be a failure. It was necessary not only to 
have legislation theoretically just, but also practically right and good. 
But there were many who felt that so far from the effect of that Bill being 
good it would be disastrous to a very large extent. The great sin which 
they had been committing was that they had always been legislating 
ahead of the people, and there had not been sufficient preparation for the 
changes which were proposed in that Bill ; the Natives were not ready 
for it. The hon. member for Victoria West had said that there was a 
disposition in certain directions to repress the Natives. He (the speaker) 
believed that there was a feeling that white men had some divine right 
to the labour of |the black, that the black people were to be hewers of 
wood and drawers of water, and he wanted to say that while men were 
obsessed with that feeling they would never be able to legislate fairly. 
They had no more divine right to the labour of the black people than they 
had to the labour of the white. To his mind the great point was, should 
their policy be one of repression or a policy of inspiration ? They had 
inspired the Natives to a certain extent, but no sooner had they created 
an appetite than they had told the Natives they should go no further. 
Their policy was the policy of Tantalus. That Bill would create a feeling 
of insecurity in the minds of the Natives. There were those who said 
that if the Natives would not submit to dictation they should be wiped 
out. But that should not be their policy. They must cease the policy 
of repression and let it be one of wide inspiration. 

But alas ! these and similar pleadings had about 
as much effect upon the Ministerial steam-roller as 
the proverbial water on a duck's back. With a rush 
the Natives' Land Bill was dispatched from the Lower 
House to the Senate, adopted hurriedly by the Senate, 
returned to the Lower House, and went at the same 
pace to Government House, and there receiving the 
Governor-General's signature, it immediately became 
law. As regards the Governor-General's signature, 
His Excellency, if Ministers are to be believed, was 
ready to sign the Bill (or rather signified his intention 
of doing so) long before it was introduced into Parlia- 
ment. This excited haste suggests grave misgivings 
as^ to the character of the Bill. Why all the 
hurry and scurry, and why the Governor-General's 



THE NATIVES' LAND ACT 


57 


approval in advance ? Other Bills are passed and 
approved by the Governor, yet they do not come into 
operation until some given day — the beginning of 
the next calendar year, or of the next financial year. 
But the Natives' Land Act became law and was 
operating as soon as it could be promulgated. 

After desperately protesting, with individual 
members of Parliament and with Cabinet Ministers, 
and getting nothing for their pains, the delegates 
from the Native Congress wrote Lord Gladstone, 
from an office about two hundred yards distant from 
Government House, requesting His Excellency to 
withhold his assent to the Natives' Land Bill until 
the people mostly concerned (i,e. the Natives) had 
had a chance of making known to His Majesty the 
King their objection to the measure. His Excellency 
replied that such a course '' was not within his con- 
stitutional functions." Thereby the die was cast, 
and the mandate went forth that the land laws of 
the Orange " Free " State, which is commonly known 
as the Only Slave State," shall be the laws of the 
whole Union of South Africa. The worst feature 
in the case is the fact that, even with the Govern- 
ments of the late Republics, the Presidents always had 
the power to exempt some Natives from the operation 
of those laws, and that prerogative had been liberally 
used by successive Presidents. Now, however, with- 
out a President, and with the prerogative of the 
(by the exercise of which the evils of such 
a law could have been averted) disowned by 
the King's own Ministers on the spot, God in the 
heavens alone knows what will become of the hap- 
less, because voteless. Natives, who are without a 
President, without a King," and with a Governor- 
General without constitutional functions, under task- 
masters whose national traditions are to enslave the 
dark races. 



CHAPTER IV 

ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 

Es ist unkoeniglich zu weinen — ach, 

Und hier nicht weinen ist unvaeterlich. 

Schiller. 

** T)RAY that your flight be not in winter/' said 
Jesus Christ ; but it was only during the 
winter of 1913 that the full significance of this New 
Testament passage was revealed to us. We left 
Kimberley by the early morning train during the 
first week in July, on a tour of observation regarding 
the operation of the Natives' Land Act ; and we 
arrived at Bloemhof, in Transvaal, at about noon. 
On the River Diggings there were no actual cases 
representing the effects of the Act, but traces of these 
effects were everywhere manifest. Some fugitives 
of the Natives' Land Act had crossed the river in full 
flight. The fact that they reached the diggings a 
fortnight before our visit would seem to show that 
while the debates were proceeding in Parliament some 
farmers already viewed with eager eyes the impending 
opportunity for at once making slaves of their tenants 
and appropriating their stock ; for, acting on the 
powers conferred on them by an Act signed by Lord 
Gladstone, so lately as June 16, they had during that 
very week (probably a couple of days after, and in 
some cases, it would seem, a couple of days before 
the actual signing of the Bill) approached their 

58 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 59 


tenants with stories about a new Act which makes 
it criminal for any one to have black tenants and 
lawful to have black servants. Few of these Natives, 
of course, would object to be servants, especially if 
the white man is worth working for, but this is 
where the shoe pinches : one of the conditions is 
that the black man's (that is the servant's) cattle 
shall henceforth work for the landlord free of charge. 
Then the Natives would decide to leave the farm rather 
than make the landlord a present of all their life's 
savings, and some of them had passed through the 
diggings in search of a place in the Transvaal. But the 
higher up they went the more gloomy was their 
prospect as the news about the new law was now 
penetrating every part of the country. 

One farmer met a wandering native family in the 
town of Bloemhof a week before our visit. He was 
willing to employ the Native and many more home- 
less families as follows : A monthly wage of £2 los. 
for each such family, the husband working in the 
fields, the wife in the house, with an additional 
105. a month for each son, and 5 s. for each daughter, 
but on condition that the Native's cattle were also 
handed over to work for him. It must be clearly 
understood, we are told that the Dutchman added, 
that occasionally the Native would have to leave his 
family at work on the farm, and go out with his wagon 
and his oxen to earn money whenever and wherever he 
was told to go, in order that the master may be enabled 
to pay the stipulated wage. The Natives were at 
first inchned to laugh at the idea of working for 
a master with their families and goods and chattels, 
and then to have the additional pleasure of pa 3 dng 
their own small wages, besides bringing money to 
pay the Baas " for employing them. But the 
Dutchman's serious demeanour told them that his 



6o NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


suggestion was no joke/' He himself had for 
some time been in need of a native cattle owner, to 
assist him as transport rider between Bloemhof, 
Mooifontein, London, and other diggings, in return 
for the occupation and cultivation of some of his 
waste lands in the district, but that was now illegal. 
He could only employ them ; but, as he had no 
money to pay wages, their cattle would have to go 
out and earn it for him. Had they not heard of the 
law before ? he inquired. Of course they had ; in 
fact that is why they left the other place, but as they 
thought that it was but a Free State law, they took 
the anomalous situation for one of the multifarious 
aspects of the freedom of the " Free '' State whence 
they came; they had scarcely thought that the 
Transvaal was similarly afflicted. 

Needless to say the Natives did not see their way 
to agree with such a one-sided bargain. They moved 
up country, but only to find the next farmer offering 
the same terms, however, with a good many more 
disturbing details — and the next farmer and the next — 
so that after this native farmer had wandered from 
farm to farm, occasionally getting into trouble for 
travelling with unknown stock, " across my ground 
without my permission," and at times escaping arrest 
for he knew not what, and further, being abused for 
the crimes of having a black skin and no master, 
he sold some of his stock along the way, beside losing 
many which died of cold and starvation ; and after 
thus having lost much of his substance, he eventually 
worked his way back to Bloemhof with the remainder, 
sold them for anything they could fetch, and went 
to work for a digger. 

The experience of another native sufferer was similar 
to the above, except that instead of working for a 
digger he sold his stock for a mere bagatelle, and 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 6i 

left with his family by the Johannesburg night train 
for an unknown destination. More native famihes 
crossed the river and went inland during the previous 
week, and as nothing had since been heard of them, 
it would seem that they were still wandering some- 
where, and incidentally becoming well versed in the 
law that was responsible for their compulsory unsettle- 
ment. 

Well, we knew that this law was as harsh as its 
instigators were callous, and we knew that it would, 
if passed, render many poor people homeless, but it 
must be confessed that we were scarcely prepared 
for such a rapid and widespread crash as it caused 
in the lives of the Natives in this neighbourhood. 
We left our luggage the next morning with the 
local Mission School teacher, and crossed the river 
to find out some more about this wonderful law 
of extermination. It was about lo a.m. when we 
landed on the south bank of the Vaal River — the 
picturesque Vaal River, upon whose banks a hun- 
dred miles farther west we spent the best and happiest 
days of our boyhood. It was interesting to walk on 
one portion of the banks of that beautiful river — 
a portion which we had never traversed except as 
an infant in mother's arms more than thirty years 
before. How the subsequent happy days at Barkly 
West, so long past, came crowding upon our memory ! 
— days when there were no railways, no bridges, and no 
system of irrigation. In rainy seasons, which at that 
time were far more regular and certain, the river used 
to overflow its high banks and flood the surrounding 
valleys to such an extent, that no punt could carry 
the wagons across. Thereby the transport service 
used to be hung up, and numbers of wagons would 
congregate for weeks on both sides of the river until 
the floods subsided. At such times the price of fresh 



62 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


milk used to mount up to is. per pint. There being 
next to no competition, we boys had a monopoly over 
the milk trade. We recalled the number of haver- 
sacks full of bottles of milk we youngsters often 
carried to those wagons, how we returned with empty 
bottles and with just that number of shillings. 
Mother and our elder brothers had leather bags full 
of gold and did not care for the boy's money " ; 
and unlike the boys of the neighbouring village, having 
no sisters of our own, we gave away some of our money 
to fair cousins, and jingled the rest in our pockets. 
We had been told from boyhood that sweets were 
'injurious to the teeth, and so spurning these delights 
we had hardly any use for money, for all we wanted 
to eat, drink and wear was at hand in plenty. We 
could then get six or eight shillings every morning 
from the pastime of washing that number of bottles, 
filling them with fresh milk and carrying them down 
to the wagons ; there was always such an abundance 
of the liquid that our shepherd's hunting dog could 
not possibly miss what we took, for while the flocks 
were feeding on the luscious buds of the haak-doorns 
and the orange-coloured blossoms of the rich mimosa 
and other wild vegetation that abounded on the 
banks of the Vaal River, the cows, similarly engaged, 
were gathering more and more milk. 

The gods are cruel, and one of their cruellest acts of 
omission was that of giving us no hint that in very 
much less than a quarter of a century all those hundreds 
of heads of cattle, and sheep and horses belonging to 
the family would vanish like a morning mist, and 
that we ourselves would live to pay 30s. per month 
for a daily supply of this same precious fluid, and in 
very limited quantities. They might have warned 
us that Englishmen would agree with Dutchmen or 
make it unlawful for black men to keep milch cows 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 63 


of their own on the banks of that river, and gradually 
have prepared us for the shock. 

Crossing the river from the Transvaal side brings 
one into the Province of the Orange '' Free '' State, 
in which, in the adjoining division of Boshof, we 
were born thirty-six years back. We remember 
the name of the farm, but not having been in this 
neighbourhood since infancy, we could not .tell its 
whereabouts, nor could we say whether the present 
owner was a Dutchman, his lawyer, or a Hebrew 
merchant ; one thing we do know, however : it is 
that even if we had the money and the owner was 
willing to sell the spot upon which we first saw the 
light of day and breathed the pure air of heaven, the 
sale would be followed with a fine of one hundred 
pounds. The law of the country forbids the sale of 
land to a Native. Russia is one of the most abused 
countries in the world, but it is extremely doubtful 
if the statute book of that Empire contains a law 
debarring the peasant from purchasing the land where- 
on he was born, or from building a home wherein he 
might end his days. 

At this time we felt something rising from our 
heels along our back, gripping us in a spasm, as we 
were cycling along ; a needlelike pang, too, pierced 
our heart with a sharp thrill. What was it ? We 
remembered feeling something nearly like it when 
our father died eighteen years ago ; but at that time 
our physical organs were fresh and grief was easily 
thrown off in tears, but then we lived in a happy South 
Africa that was full of pleasant anticipations, and 
now — what changes for the worse have we under- 
gone ! For to crown all our calamities. South Africa 
has by law ceased to be the home of any of her native 
children whose skins are dyed with a pigment that 
does not conform with the regulation hu€;^ 



64 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

We are told to forgive our enemies and not to let the 
sun go down upon our wrath, so we breathe the prayer 
that peace may be to the white races, and that they, 
including our present persecutors of the Union Parlia- 
ment, may never live to find themselves deprived of 
all occupation and property rights in their native 
country as is now the case with the Native. History 
does not tell us of any other continent where the 
Bantu lived besides Africa, and if this systematic 
ill-treatment of the Natives by the colonists is to be 
the guiding principle of Europe's scramble for Africa, 
slavery is our only alternative ; for now it is only as 
serfs that the Natives are legally entitled to live here. 
Is it to be thought that God is using the South African 
Parliament to hound us out of our ancestral homes 
in order to quicken our pace heavenward ? But 
go from where to heaven ? In the beginning, we 
are told, God created heaven and earth, and peopled 
the earth, for people do not shoot up to heaven from 
nowhere. They must have had an earthly home. 
Enoch, Melchizedek, Elijah, and other saints, came to 
heaven from earth. God did not say to the Israelites 
in their bondage : '' Cheer up, boys ; bear it all in 

good part for I have bright mansions on high awaiting 
you all." But he said : "I have surely seen the 
affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have 
heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters ; for 
I know their sorrows, and I am come down to bring 
them out of the hands of the Egyptians, and to bring 
them up out of that land unto a good land and a large, 
unto a land flowing with milk and honey." And He 
used Moses to carry out the promise He made to their 
ancestor Abraham in Canaan, that " unto thy seed 
will I give this land." It is to be hoped that in the 
Boer churches, entrance to which is barred against 
coloured people during divine service, they also 
read the Pentateuch. 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 65 

It is doubtful if we ever thought so much on a single 
bicycle ride as we did on this journey ; however, the 
sight of a policeman ahead of us disturbed these 
meditations and gave place to thoughts of quite 
another kind, for — we had no pass. Dutchmen, 
Englishmen, Jews, Germans, and other foreigners 
may roam the Free '' State without permission — 
but not Natives. To us it would mean a fine and 
imprisonment to be without a pass. The '' pass 
law was first instituted to check the movement of 
livestock over sparsely populated areas. In a sense 
it was a wise provision, in that it served to identify 
the livestock which one happened to be driving along 
the high road, to prove the hona jides of the driver 
and his title to the stock. Although white men still 
steal large droves of horses in Basutoland and sell 
them in Natal or in East Griqualand, they, of course, 
are not required to carry any passes. These white 
horse-thieves, to escape the clutches of the police, 
employ Natives to go and sell the stolen stock and 
write the passes for these Natives, forging the names 
of Magistrates and Justices of the Peace. Such 
native thieves in some instances ceasing to be hirelings 
in the criminal business, trade on their own, but it 
is not clear what purpose it is intended to serve by 
subjecting native pedestrians to the degrading require- 
ment of carrying passes when they are not in charge 
of any stock. 

In a few moments the policeman was before us 
and we alighted in presence of the representative of 
the law, with our feet on the accursed soil of the 
district in which we were bom. The policeman 
stopped. By his looks and his familiar '' Dag jong 
we noticed that the policeman was Dutch, and the 
embodiment of affability. He spoke and we were 
glad to notice that he had no intention of dragging 



66 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

an innocent man to prison. We were many miles 
from the nearest police station, and in such a case one 
is generally able to gather the real views of the 
man on patrol, as distinct from the written code of his 
office, but our friend was becoming very companion- 
able. Naturally we asked him about the operation 
of the plague law. He was a Transvaaler, he said, 
and he knew that Kafirs were inferior beings, but they 
had rights, and were always left in undisturbed posses- 
sion of their property when Paul Kruger was alive. The 
poor devils must be sorry now,'' he said, '' that they 
ever sang ' God save the Queen ' when the British 
troops came into the Transvaal, for I have seen, in 
the course of my duties, that a Kafir's life nowadays was 

not worth a , and I believe that no man regretted 

the change of flags now more than the Kafirs of Trans- 
vaal." This information was superfluous, for personal 
contact with the Natives of Transvaal had convinced 
us of the fact. They say it is only the criminal who 
has any reason to rejoice over the presence of the 
Union Jack, because in his case the cat-o'-nine-tails, 
except for very serious crimes, has been abol- 
ished. 

" Some of the poor creatures," continued the police- 
man, " I knew to be fairly comfortable, if not rich, 
and they enjoyed the possession of their stock, living 
in many instances just like Dutchmen. Many of 
these are now being forced to leave their homes. 
Cycling along this road you will meet several of them 
in search of new homes, and if ever there was a fool's 
errand, it is that of a Kafir trying to find a new home 
for his stock and family just now." 

" And what do you think. Baas Officer, must even- 
tually be the lot of a people under such unfortunate 
circumstances ? " we asked. 

" I think," said the policeman, " that it must serve 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 67 


them right. They had no business to hanker after 
British rule, to cheat and plot with the enemies of 
their Republic for the overthrow of their Government. 
Why did they not assist the forces of their Republic 
during the war instead of supplying the English with 
scouts and intelligence ? Oom Pa^ would not have 
died of a broken heart and he would still be there to 
protect them. Serve them right, I say.'' 

So saying he spurred his horse, which showed a clean 
pair of hoofs. He left us rather abruptly, for we were 
about to ask why we, too, of Natal and the Cape were 
suffering, for we, being originally British subjects, 
never cheated and plotted with the enemies of our 
Colonies," but he was gone and left us still cogitating 
by the roadside. 

Proceeding on our journey we next came upon a native 
trek and heard the same old story of prosperity on a 
Dutch farm : they had raised an average 800 bags of 
grain each season, which, with the increase of stock and 
sale of wool, gave a steady income of about £150 per 
year after the farmer had taken his share. There 
were gossipy rumours about somebody having met 
some one who said that some one else had overheard 
a conversation between the Baas and somebody else, 
to the effect that the Kafirs were getting too rich on 
his property. This much involved tale incidentally 
conveys the idea that the Baas was himself getting 
too rich on his'^farm. For the Native provides his 
own seed, his own cattle, his own labour for the plough- 
ing, the weeding and the reaping, and after bagging 
his grain he calls in the landlord to receive his share, 
which is fifty per cent of the entire crop. 

All had gone well till the previous week when the Baas 
came to the native tenants with the story that a new 
law had been passed under which " all my oxen and 
cows must belong to him, and my family to work for 



68 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

£2 a month, failing which he gave me four days to 
leave the farm/' 

We passed several farm-houses along the road, 
where all appeared pretty tranquil as we went along, 
until the evening which we spent in the open country, 
somewhere near the boundaries of the Hoopstad and 
Boshof districts ; here a regular circus had gathered. 
By a " circus " we mean the meeting of groups of 
families, moving to every point of the compass, and 
all bivouacked at this point in the open country where 
we were passing. It was heartrending to listen to the 
tales of their cruel experiences derived from the rigour 
of the Natives' Land Act. Some of their cattle 
had perished on the journey, from poverty and 
lack of fodder, and the native owners ran a serious risk 
of imprisonment for travelling with dying stock. The 
experience of one of these evicted tenants is 
typical of the rest, and illustrates the cases of several 
we met in other parts of the country. 

Kgobadi, for instance, had received a message 
describing the eviction of his father-in-law in the 
Transvaal Province, without notice, because he had 
refused to place his stock, his family, and his person 
at the disposal of his former landlord, who now 
refuses to let him remain on his farm except on 
these conditions. The father-in-law asked that Kgo- 
badi should try and secure a place for him in the 
much dreaded Free " State as the Transvaal 
had suddenly become uninhabitable to Natives who 
cannot become servants ; but greedy folk hae 
lang airms," and Kgobadi himself was proceeding 
with his family and his belongings in a wagon, to 
inform his people-in-law of his own eviction, without 
notice, in the Free " State, for a similar reason to 
that which sent his father-in-law adrift. The Baas 
had exacted from him the services of himself, his wife 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 69 


and his oxen, for wages of 305. a month, whereas 
Kgobadi had been making over £100 a year, besides 
retaining the services of his wife and of his cattle 
for himself. When he refused the extortionate terms 
the Baas retaliated with a Dutch note, dated the 
30th day of June, 1913, which ordered him to betake 
himself from the farm of the undersigned, by sunset 
of the same day, failing which his stock would be 
seized and impounded, and himself handed over to 
the authorities for trespassing on the farm.*' 

A drowning man catches at every straw, and 
so we were again and again appealed to for advice 
by these sorely afflicted people. To those who were 
not yet evicted we counselled patience and submission 
to the absurd terms, pending an appeal to a higher 
authority than the South African Parliament and 
finally to His Majesty the King who, we believed, would 
certainly disapprove of all that we saw on that day 
had it been brought to his notice. As for those 
who were already evicted, as a Bechuana we could 
not help thanking God that Bechuanaland (on the 
western boundary of this quasi-British Republic) 
was still entirely British. In the early days it was 
the base of David Livingstone's activities and peaceful 
mission against the Portuguese and Arab slave 
trade. We suggested that they might negotiate the 
numerous restrictions against the transfer of cattle 
from the Western Transvaal and seek an asylum 
in Bechuanaland. We wondered what consolation 
we could give to these roving wanderers if the 
whole of Bechuanaland were under the jurisdiction 
of the relentless Union Parliament. 

It was cold that afternoon as we cycled into the 
" Free " State from Transvaal, and towards evening 
the southern winds rose. A cutting blizzard raged 
during the night, and native mothers evicted from 



70 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


their homes shivered with their babies by their sides. 
When we saw on that night the teeth of the little 
children clattering through the cold, we thought of 
our own little ones in their Kimberley home of an 
evening after gambolling in their winter frocks with 
their schoolmates, and we wondered what these 
little mites had done that a home should suddenly 
become to them a thing of the past. 

Kgobadi's goats had been to kid when he trekked 
from his farm ; but the kids, which in halcyon times 
represented the interest on his capital, were now one 
by one dying as fast as they were born and left by 
the roadside for the jackals and vultures to feast upon. 

This visitation was not confined to Kgobadi's 
stock, Mrs. Kgobadi carried a sick baby when the 
eviction took place, and she had to transfer her 
darling from the cottage to the jolting ox- wagon in 
which they left the farm. Two days out the little 
one began to sink as the result of privation and 
exposure on the road, and the night before we met 
them its little soul was released from its earthly 
bonds. The death of the child added a fresh per- 
_plexity to the stricken parents. They had no right 
or title to the farm lands through which they trekked : 
they must keep to the public roads — the only places 
in the country open to the outcasts if they are 
possessed of a travelling permit. The deceased child 
had to be buried, but where, when, and how ? 

This young wandering family decided to dig a grave 
under cover of the darkness of that night, when no one 
was looking, and in that crude manner the dead child 
was interred — and interred amid fear and trembling, as 
well as the throbs of a torturing anguish, in a stolen 
grave, lest the proprietor of the spot, or any of his ser- 
vants, should surprise them in the act. Even criminals 
dropping straight from the gallows have an undisputed 



ONE NIGHT WITH THE FUGITIVES 71 


claim to six feet of ground on which to rest their 
criminal remains, but under the cruel operation of 
the Natives' Land Act little children, whose only 
crime is that God did not make them white, are some- 
times denied that right in their ancestral home. 

Numerous details narrated by these victims of an 
Act of Parliament kept us awake all that night, and 
by next morning we were glad enough to hear no more 
of the sickening procedure of extermination volun- 
tarily instituted by the South African Parliament. 
We had spent a hideous night under a bitterly cold 
sky, conditions to which hundreds of our unfortunate 
countrymen and countrywomen in various parts of 
the country are condemned by the provisions of this 
Parliamentary land plague. At five o'clock in the 
morning the cold seemed to redouble its energies ; and 
never before did we so fully appreciate the Master's 
saying : ''But pray ye that your flight be not in the 
winter." 



CHAPTER V 

ANOTHER NIGHT WITH THE SUFFERERS 

Heureux ceux qui sont morts dans le calme des soirs, 

Avant ces jours affreux de carnage et de haine ! 

Ils se sont endormis, le coeur rempli d'espoirs, 

Dans un reve d'amour et de concordc humaine ! 

Ils n'ont pas entendu la sinistre remeur 

Qui monte des hameaux consumes par la flamme, 

Ni les cris des enfants et des vierges en pleurs, 

Ni le g^missement des vi^illards et des femmes ! 

Heureux les morts ! 

Maurice Kufferath. 

W E parted sadly from these unfortunate nomads 
of an ungrateful and inhospitable country, 
after advising them to trek from the Union into the 
arid deserts of Bechuanaland. In our advice we laid 
special stress upon the costliness of such an expedition 
as theirs and upon the many and varying regulations 
to be complied with, on such a trek, through the 
Western Transvaal. But, cost whatever it may, they, 
like ourselves, understood that as the law stood they 
would be better off and safer beyond the boundaries 
of the Union. 

From here we worked our way into the Hoopstad 
district. There we saw some Natives who were, as 
it were, on pins and needles, their landlords having 
given them a few days in which to consider the advisa- 
bihty of either accepting the new conditions or leaving 
their houses. Our advice to these tenants was to 
accept, for the time being, any terms offered by their 

72 



another night with f HB sufferers 73 

landlords, pending an appeal ^ His Majesty the King ; 
we also passed through a few farms where the white 
farmers were visibly sympathetic towards the harried 
Natives. Some of the white farmers were accepting 
Natives as tenants on their farms in defiance of the 
law. We naturally thanked these for their humanity 
and went our way, promising never to disclose their 
magnanimity to the Government officials. What 
has suddenly happened ? '' one of these landlords asked. 

We were living so nicely with your people, and why 
should the law unsettle them in this manner ? '' 

We rtlay here mention that a fortnight later we were 
in General Botha's constituency in the Transvaal. 
A few days before we arrived there a meeting of white 
farmers was held at one of the Dutch farm-houses 
at which it was resolved to take the fullest advantage 
of the new law, which had placed the entire native 
population in the hands of the farmers. It was 
further resolved that a Kafir who refused to become a 
servant should at once be consigned to the road. 

A similar resolution was passed at another meeting 
of landlords at another place. Part of the proceedings 
of this meeting was reported in some, though not all, 
of the Dutch newspapers. Without breaking our 
promise not to disclose any names of landlords who 
felt it a duty to resist injustice, even though it bears the 
garb of law, we will mention Mr. X., a Boer farmer, 

of the farm , near Thingamejig, between the 

town of and the river . He protested at the 

meeting, stating that the Transvaalers were not com- 
pelled to turn the Natives out, and that they were 
only debarred from taking any new native tenants ; 
that it was wicked to expel a Kafir from the farm 
for no reason whatever, and so make him home/ 
less, since he could not, if evicted, go either to 
another farm or back to his old place. For ex- 



74 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


pressing his views so frankly Mr. X. was threatened 
by his compatriots with physical violence ! His 
opponents also said that, if he continued to harbour 
Kafirs on his farm as tenants, they would hold him 
responsible for any stock that they might lose. The 
incidents of the meeting were related to the Natives 
by Mr. X. himself. He told the Natives, further, that 
he would go to the expense of fencing his farm with 
the Natives inside, so that they may be out of the 
reach of his infuriated neighbours. 

We spent the next night in some native huts on a 
farm in the district of Hoopstad. On that occasion 
we met a man who had had a month's notice to leave 
his farm, and was going from fann to farm in search of 
a new place. He had heard alarming stories about 
evictions wherever he went. During that evening 
we were treated to some more pitiful stories concerning 
the atrocities of the wretched land Act. Many native 
wanderers had actually passed that farm during the 
preceding few days, trudging aimlessly from place to 
place in search of some farmer who might give them 
a shelter. At first they thought the stories about a 
new law were inventions or exaggerations, but their 
own desperate straits and the prevailing native disloca- 
tion soon taught them otherwise. 

The similarity in the experiences of the sufferers 
would make monotonous reading if given individually, 
but there are instances here and there which give 
variety to the painful record, and these should jdeld 
the utmost satisfaction to the promoters of the Act, 
in proving to them the fell measure of their achieve- 
ment. One example of these experiences was that of 
a white farmer who had induced a thrifty Native 
in another district to come and farm on his estate. 
The contract was duly executed about the end of May, 
1913. It was agreed that the Native? should move over 



another night with the sufferers 75 

to the new place after gathering his crops and sharing 
them with his old landlord, which he did in the 
third week in June. On his arrival, however, the 
new landlord's attitude towards him aroused his sus- 
picions ; his suspicions were confirmed when, after 
some hesitation, the landlord told him that their 
contract was illegal. Having already left his old 
place the legal embargo was also against his return 
there, and so his only course was to leave that place 
and wander about with his stock and family. They 
went in the direction of Kroonstad, and they have 
not been heard of since. 

The next example is that of the oldest man in the 
'' Free " State. He had been evicted (so we were told 
during that evening on the farm) along with his 
aged wife, his grey-headed children, the children's 
children and grandchildren. We may here add that 
we read a confirmation of this case in the English 
weekly newspaper of Harrismith. The paper's refer- 
ence to this case will also illustrate the easy manner 
in which these outrageous evictions are reported in 
white newspapers. There is no reference to the 
sinister undercurrent and hardships attending these 
evictions. The paper in question, the Harrismith 
Chronicle, simply says : — 

An Ancient Couple 

A venerable Native whose age is no less than 119 years, accompanied 
by his wife, aged 98, and a son who is approaching 80, left Harrismith 
on Tuesday by train for Volksrust. The old man acquired some property 
in the Transvaal, and is leaving this district to start a new home with 
as much interest in the venture as if he were a stripling of twenty. The 
old lady had to be carried to the train, but the old man walked fairly 
firmly. The aged couple were the centre of much kindly attraction, and 
were made as comfortable as possible for their journey by the railway 
officials. It is difficult to realize in these days of rapid change that in 
the , departure from the "Free" State of this venerable party we are 
losmg from our midst a man who was bom in 1794, and has lived in no 
than three centuries of time. Good luck to them both ; may they 
still live long and prosper ! 



76 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Now, as a matter of fact, this '' ancient couple 
had not left the Free '' State of their own free will. 
Their stock had been expelled from their grazing 
areas, and they were told that they could only continue 
to graze if the centenarian tenant agreed to supply 
a certain number of labourers to work on the land- 
owner's farm and with his sons ceased to do any 
ploughing as tenants. This system of sharing the crops 
has been followed ever since the Boers planted them- 
selves in the Free " State, and the family had 
had no other means of support. Happily the aid 
of Providence in the case of this '' ancient couple " 
was speedy, as the old people quickly found an asylum 
on the farm of Mr. P. ka I. Seme, a native solicitor in 
the Transvaal. 

At the same place on the same evening we were told 
of a conversation between a well-known Dutchman 
and a Native. The object of this law," said the 
Burgher, " is to goad the Natives into rebelUon, so 
that the Government may legally confiscate what little 
ground was left to them, and hand over the dispossessed 
Kafirs and their families to work for the farmers, just 
for their food." The policy of goading the Natives 
into rebellion is not wholly foreign to Colonial policy ; 
but the horrible cruelty to which live stock is exposed 
under the new Act is altogether a new departure. 
King Solomon says, " The righteous man regardeth 
the life of his beast, but the tender mercies of the 
wicked are cruel " ; but there is a Government of 
professed Bible readers who, in defiance of all Scrip- 
tural precepts, pass a law which penalizes a section of 
the community along with their oxen, sheep, goats, 
horses and donkeys on account of the colour of their 
owners. The penalty clause (Section 5) imposes 
a fine of £100 on a landowner who accommodates a 
Native on his farm ; and if after the fine is paid th^ 



ANOTHER NIGHT WITH THE SUFFERERS 77 

Native leaves his stock on the farm to go and look 
for a fresh place, there will be an additional fine of 
for every day that the Native's cattle remain on 
that farm. They must take the road immediately 
and be kept moving day and night until they die of 
starvation, or until the owner (who is debarred, by 
Section i, from purchasing a pasturage for his cattle) 
disposes of them to a white man. 

Such cruelty to dumb animals is as unwarranted as 
it is unprecedented. It reads cruel enough on paper, 
but we wish that the reader had accompanied us on 
one journey, say, during the cold snap in the first 
week in August, when we travelled from Potchefstroom 
to Vereeniging, and seen the flocks of those evicted 
Natives that we met. We frequently met those roving 
pariahs, with their hungry cattle, and wondered if 
the animals were not more deserving of pity than 
their owners. It may be the cattle's misfortune 
that they have a black owner, but it is certainly 
not their fault, for sheep have no choice in the 
selection of a colour for their owners, and no cows or 
goats are ever asked to decide if the black boy who 
milks them shall be their owner, or but a herd in the 
employ of a white man ; so why should they be 
starved on account of the colour of their owners ? 
We knew of a law to prevent cruelty to animals, 
but had never^thought that we should live to meet in 
one day so many dumb creatures making silent 
appeals to Heaven for protection against the law. 

What man has nerve to do, man has not nerve to 
see," and oh ! if those gifted Parliamentarians could 
have been mustered here to witness the wretched 
results of one of their fine days' work for a fine day's 
pay 1 But they bind heavy burdens and grievous 
to be borne," then draw their Parliamentary emolu- 
ments and retire to the quiet of their comfortable , 



78 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

homes, to enjoy more rest than is due to toilers who 
have served both God and humanity. 

During this same night in Hoopstad district we were 
also told of the visit of a Dutch farmer in the middle of 
June, 1913, to his native tenants. One of the Natives 
— named Kgabale — was rather old. His two sons are 
delving in the gold mines of Johannesburg, and return 
home each spring time to help the old man and their 
two young sisters to do the ploughing The daughters 
tend the fields and Kgabale looks after the stock. 
By this means they have been enabled to lead a re- 
spectable life and to pay the landowner fifty percent, of 
the produce every year, besides the taxes levied by the 
Government on Natives. Three weeks before our visit, 
the farmer came to cancel Kgabale's verbal contract 
with him and to turn the family into unpaid servants, 
in return for the privilege of squatting on his farm. 
As Kgabale himself was too old to work, the farmer 
demanded of him that his two sons should return 
immediately from Johannesburg to render manual 
service on his farm, failing which, the old man should 
forthwith betake himself from the place. He gave 
Kgabale seven days to deliver his two sons. 

Naturally this decision came upon Kgabale and his 
daughters like a bolt from the blue. The poor old 
man wandered from place to place, trying to find 
some one — and it took him two days to do so — who 
could write, so as to dictate a letter to his sons in 
Johannesburg, informing them of what had happened. 
The week expired before he could get a reply from 
Johannesburg. The landlord, in a very abusive 
mood, again demanded the instant arrival of his two 
sons from Johannesburg, to commence work at the 
farm-house the very next morning. Kgabale spent 
the whole night praying that at least one of his sons 
might come. By daybreak next morning no answer 



another night with the sufferers 79 


had arrived, and the Dutchman came and set fire 
to the old man's houses, and ordered him then and there 
to quit the farm. It was a sad sight to see the feeble 
old man, his aged wife and his daughters driven 
in this way from a place which they had regarded as 
their home. In the ordinary course, such a calamity 
could have been made more tolerable by moving to 
the next farm and there await the arrival and advice 
of his sons ; but now, under the Natives' Land Act, no 
sympathetic landowner would be permitted to shelter 
them for a single day. So Kgabale was said to have 
gone in the direction of Klerksdorp. 

One of the sons arrived a week after the catastrophe. 
He found his old home in ruins, and that his aged 
parents and their children had become victims of the 
turpitude of an Act of Parliament. The son went in 
search of his relatives across the Vaal, but it was 
not known if they succeeded in finding the refuge which 
the law had made unlawful. 

Among the squatters on the same farm as Kgabale 
was a widow named Maria. Her husband in his 
lifetime had lived as a tenant on the farm, ploughing in 
shares until his death. After his death Maria kept on 
the contract and made a fair living. Her son and 
daughter, aged fourteen and sixteen respectively, took 
turns at herding her cattle and assisting the mother in 
other ways. During the ploughing season, they hired 
assistance to till the fields, but they themselves 
tended and reaped the harvest and delivered 50 per cent 
of the produce to the landowner. Such were the 
conditions on which she was allowed to live on the farm. 
Maria, being a widow, and her son being but a youth, 
it was hoped that the landlord would propose reason- 
able terms for her ; but instead, his proposal was 
that she should dispose of her stock and indenture her 
children to him. This sinister proposal makes it 



8o NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


evident that farmers not only expect Natives to 
render them free labour, but they actually wish the 
Natives to breed slaves for them. Maria found it 
difficult to comply with her landlord's demand, and 
as she had no husband, from whom labour could be 
exacted, the Dutchman ordered her to clear out, 
and," he added with an oath, " you must get another 
man before you reach your next place of abode, as 
the law will not permit you to stay there till you have 
a man to work for the Baas." Having given this 
counsel the landlord is said to have set fire to Maria's 
thatched cottage, and as the chilly south-easter blew 
the smoke of her burning home towards the north-west, 
Maria, with her bedclothes on her head, and on the 
heads of her son and daughter, and carrying her three- 
year-old boy tied to her back, walked off from the farm, 
driving her cows before her. In parting from the 
endeared associations of their late home, for one blank 
and unknown, the children were weeping bitterly. 
Nor has any news of the fate of this family been 
received since they were forced out on this perilous 
adventure. 



CHAPTER VI 

OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO WHITE WOMEN 

O woman ! in our hours of ease 
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, 

And variable as the shade 
By the light quivering aspen made ; 

When pain and anguish wring the brow% 

A ministering angel thou. 

Scott. 

S OME farmers (unfortunately too few) who had at 
first intended to change the status of their 
native tenants, had been obliged to abandon the idea 
owing to the determined opposition of their wives. 
One such case was particularly interesting. Thus, at 
Dashfontein, the wife of a Dutch farmer, a Mr. V., 
on whose property some native families were squatting, 
got up, one morning, and found the kitchen-maid very 
disagreeable. The morning coffee had been made 
right enough, but the maid's " Morre, Nooi " (Good 
morning, ma'am) was rather sullen and almost border- 
ing on insolence. She did her scullery work as usual, 
but did not seem to care, that morning, about wasting 
time inquiring how baby slept, and if Nonnie had 
got rid of her neuralgia, and so on. She spoke only 
when spoken to and answered mainly in monosyllables. 
Mrs. V. was perplexed. 

'' What is the matter, Anna ? " she asked. 

^ Nothing, Nooi," replied Anna curtly. 

" Mrs. V. tried some of her witty jokes, but they seemed 

81 F 



82 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

to be wasted on Anna. After jesting with the servant 
had failed, scolding was next tried, but nothing 
seemed to bring back the girhs usual cheerfulness. 
'' Oh, Anna," said the mistress at length, " you make 
me think of the olden days, when such disagreeable 
whims on the part of frowning maids used to be cured 
by " 

Anna was evidently not listening, and, if she had 
heard the mistress, she did not care two straws (or 
one straw for that matter) what cures Mrs. V.'s great- 
grandmother had prescribed for sullen servant girls. 
In fact, Anna had become a wild Kafir, for though she 
went about her work in silence, her face bore an 
expression which seemed to speak louder than her 
mouth could have done. She was clearly engaged 
in serious thought. The mistress tried to dismiss 
from her mind the inexplicable attitude of her servant, 
but the frowning look on Anna's face made the attempts 
unsuccessful. The fact that when Anna went home, 
the previous night, she was happiness personified, did 
not decrease Mrs. V.'s perplexity. 

There must be something wrong," Mrs. V. con- 
cluded, after vainly trying ruse after ruse to get a 
smile out of her servant girl. '' Something is amiss. 
I wonder if one of those well-dressed Kafirs from 
Potchefstroom had been prowling about the farm and 
instilling in Anna's simple mind all kinds of silly 
notions, about town flirts and black dandies, silk 
dresses in Potchefstroom and similar vuilgoed (rubbish). 
And if a town Kafir is going to marry Anna, where on 
earth am I going to get a reliable servant to whom I 
could securely entrust my home when I have occasion 
to go to town or to the seaside on a shorter or longer 
vacation ? Who could cook and attend to my hus- 
band's and children's peculiar wants, if Anna is going 
to leave us ? It seems certain that Anna's heart is 



OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO WHITE WOMEN 83 


not on the farm/' she said to herself. '' It was there 
right enough when she went home last night, but it is 
clear that some one has stolen it during the night. 
Anna is helplessly lovesick. I must find out who it is. 
The swain must be found and induced to come and 
join, or supervise, our squatters. We cannot let him 
take her away, for what will the homestead be without 
Anna ? I was looking forward to her marrying on 
the farm and giving her a superior cottage so that other 
Kafir girls may see how profitable it is to be good. 
Anna leaving the farm, O, nee wat ! (Oh, no). We must 
find out who it is ; but wait, there is old Gert (her 
father) coming, with old Jan (her uncle). I must find 
out from them who had been intruding into the com- 
pany of their daughters last night. I should warn 
them to be on the alert lest Anna elopes to Potchef- 
stroom with somebody, probably to take the train and 
go farther — to Johannesburg or Kimberley, as did 
Klein Mietje, whom I had hoped to train as our 
housemaid 

'' Good morning, Auta Gert, how is Mietje and the 
kleintjes (little ones) ? " 

Auta Gert's demeanour was a greater puzzle to Mrs. 
V. than his daughter's when he replied, So, so." 

Mrs. V. (between horns of the same dilemma) : 
" And you, Auta Jan ? " 

" Ja, Missus," replied Jan. 

Mrs. V.'s perplexity was intense, for it became evi- 
dent that the two Natives were there as a deputation, 
charged with some grave mission. Before she 
uttered another word the two Natives asked for an 
interview. 

" Not to waste much time, Missus," began old Gert, 

a thunderbolt has burst on the native settlement on 
the farm, and Dashfonteiri is no longer a home to 
us 



84 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

'' No longer a home ! exclaimed Mrs. V. I hope 
you idiotic Kafirs are not going to be so foolhardy as to 
leave me, leave the Baas, and leave the farm upon 
which your fathers and mothers lie buried. Do not 
you know that during this very week numbers of 
Natives have been calling on the Baas, asking him for 
places of abode, complaining that they have been 
turned adrift, with their little ones and their hungry 
animals, for refusing to become servants to , farmers 
on whose property they had been ploughing on shares ? 
White men have suddenly become brutes and have 
expelled Natives with whom they have lived from 
childhood — Natives whose labour made the white man 
wealthy are turned away by people who should treat 
them with gratitude. And are you going to leave your 
old home just when the Devil appears to have possessed 
himself of the hearts of most farmers ? In your 
own interest, apart from my own and the Baas's, 
Auta Gert, you should have left us long ago when you 
could find a place elsew'here. Are you so deaf and 
blind as not to hear and see the change which has 
come over the country of late ? White men formerly 
punished a Kafir who had done some wrong, now they 
worry him from sheer cussedness. You must be mad, 
Auta Gert, to try and leave us. What is going to 
become of your family and your beautiful cattle. 
No wonder that Anna is so upset. I have been 
thinking that some rondlooper (vagabond) from the 
towns had been trying to take her away.'' 

As Mrs. V. spoke she was agreeably surprised to find 
the sobering effect which her rebuke seemed to have 
upon her husband's native tenants. She knew her 
influence over them, especially over the old native 
families, but in all her dealings and close association 
with them she could not remember an impromptu 
speech of hers that produced such immediate results. 



OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO WHITE WOMEN 85 

The faces of the two Natives brightened up, and they 
kept looking at one another as she spoke. At length 
she turned round towards the stoep and there was 
Anna, for the first time that morning, interested in and 
delighted by what she said. Usually it would have 
been a serious breach of the rules of the house for Anna 
to listen when the Missus was speaking about some- 
thing that did not immediately concern her scullery 
duties ; but Mrs. V.'s satisfaction was unbounded 
on seeing the bright look on her servant's face, which 
she had hitherto vainly sought. 

Now, you see," said Anna to her father, I told 
you it would never happen if the Missus can help it." 

At this, the men could scarcely suppress a laugh. 
The Missus looked round again, and said : 

" Anna, have you Kafirs plotted to fool me this 
morning ? Because I take such a deep interest in 
your welfare, you have so far forgotten yourselves that 
you connived with your parents to come over to my 
house and fool me on my own farm ? What is the 
meaning of all this ? " 

Auta Gert unfolded his story. The Baas was at the 
native settlement the previous day. He called a 
meeting of the native peasants and told them of the 
new law, under which no Kafir can buy a farm or 
hire a farm. He added that, according to this law, 
their former relations of landlord and tenants have 
been made a criminal offence, for which they could 
be fined a hundred pounds, and he gave them ten 
days to decide whether they would become his ser* 
vants or leave the farm. 

" Go away, Auta Gert ; you were dreaming, my 
husband would never talk such nonsense. You 
have been with him from childhood, long before I eyer 
knew him, and yet you do not know that my husband 
is incapable of uttering anything half so wicked ? " 



86 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

He said it was the law, the new law/' 

'' Of course you need some stringent measures 
against the useless, sneaking and prowling loafers, 
but there is no fear that such laws could apply to 
Natives like you and Mietje and your children." 

'' But, Nooi, the Baas told us to leave the farm as 
the law did not permit him to " 

'' Get you gone, Auta Gert, he was joking. You 
must know that the law" did not buy this farm. The old 
Baas purchased it from Baas Philander. I personally 
helped to add up the number of moi*gen and to calcu- 
late the money, and there was not a penny piece from 
any Government. Go home, Auta Gert, and leave 
everything to me, and do not let me hear you saying 
Dashfontein is no longer your home." 

'' Well, Nooi," assented the Natives with some relief, 
** if you say it is all right, then it must be so, and we will 
go back and reap our mealies in peace, and if a police- 
man comes round demanding a hundred pounds we will 
tell him to arrest us and take us to the Nooi of the farm. 
Good-bye, Nooi." 

'' Good-bye, Auta Gert ; good-bye, Auta Jan 

Poor Anna, my dear little maid, why did you not 
tell Nooi this morning that you were worried over this 
matter. Really, Anna, I was thinking that you were 
lovesick. How did poor old Mietje take it ? Sadly, 
did she. Well, I will speak to the Baas about it. He 
had no business to attempt to bring bad luck over us 
by disturbing our peaceful Natives with such godless 
tidings. Tell your mother that Nooi says it will be 
all right." 

A few days later, Hendrik Prins, the farm manager 
in the employ of Mr. V.,was due at the native settle- 
ment to see the steam sheller at work and also to 
receive the landowner's share of the produce. Instead 
of Prins, Mr. V. attended in person. Each Native 



OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO WHITE WOMEN 87 


regarded this unusual occurrence as the signal for their 
impending eviction and thought that day would see 
their last transaction with their old mastef and land- 
lord. 

Mr. V. counted the separate bags filled with mealies 
and Kafir corn placed in groups around the sheller. 
He counted no fewer than 12,300 bags, and knew that 
his share would total 6,150, representing about 
£3,000 gross. Could he ever succeed in getting so much, 
with so little trouble, if poor whites tilled his lands 
instead of these Natives ? he thought. After all, his 
dear Johanna was right. This law is blind and must be 
resisted. It gives more consideration to the so-called 
poor whites (a respectable term for lazy whites), than 
to the owners of the ground. He, there and then, 
resolved to resist it and take the consequences. 

The grain was all threshed ; a number of native 
girls were busy sewing up the bags, and the engine- 
driver ordered his men to yoke his oxen and pull the 
machine away. Mr. V, ordered Auta Gert to call all the 
' volk ' together as he had something to tell them. 
Auta Gert, knowing the determination of his mistress, 
did so in confidence that they were about to receive 
some glad tidings. But the other folks came forward 
with a grievous sense of wrong. The fact that some 
Natives on the adjoining property had been turned 
away three days before and sent homeless about the 
country, their places being taken by others, who, tired 
of roaming about and losing nearly everything, had 
come in as serfs did not allay their fears. Auta 
Hans was already conjuring up visions of a 
Johannesburg speculator literally '' taking '' his Cape 
shorthorns for a mere bagatelle, as they did to 
William Ranco, another evicted squatter from Hoop- 
stad. 

Mr. V., the farmer, mounted a handy wagon hard by 



88 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


and commenced to address the crowd of blacks who 
gathered around the wagon at the call of Gert. 

Attention ! Listen/' he said. " You will remem- 
ber that I was here last month and explained to you 
the new law. Well, I understand that that explana- 
tion created the greatest amount of unrest amongst 
the Natives in the huts on my farm. Personally, I 
am very sorry that it ever came to that, but let me 
tell you that your Nooi, my wife, says it is not right 
that the terms under which we have lived in the past 
should be disturbed. I agree with her that it is 
unjust, and that the good Lord, who has always blessed 
us, will turn His face from us if people are unsettled and 
sent away from the farm in a discontented mood." 
(Loud and continued applause, during which Mr. V. 
took out his pouch of Magaliesburg tobacco and lit his 
pipe.) "The Nooi," he continued after a few puffs, 
" says we must not obey this law : she even says, if it 
comes to physical ejectment, or if they take me to 
prison, she is prepared to go to Pretoria in person 
and interview General Botha." (More cheers, during 
which the Natives dispersed to cart away their mealies 
amidst general satisfaction.) 

* ? 5 |« ? 

The writer visited Dashfontein in July, 1913, when 
the above narrative was given him word for word by 
old Gert. 

As old Gert narrated the story. Aunt Mietje, his 
wife, who had had timely notice of the impending visit 
of the morulaganyi (editor) from her husband (who 
slaughtered a sheep in honour of the occasion) , superin- 
tended with interesting expectations over frizzling 
items in the frying-pan on her fireplace. Her bright 
eyes, beaming from under her headkerchief, suggested 
how she must have been the undisputed belle of her 
day. The rough wooden table was covered with the 



OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO WHITE WOMEN 8g 


best linen in the native settlement, and on it were laid 
some clean plates, and the old yet shining cutlery 
reserved for special occasions, besides other signs 
of an approaching evening meal. Having learnt the 
art from an experienced housewife on whose farm her 
people were squatting, and improved upon her teaching, 
she was famous in the neighbourhood for the excellence 
of her cooking. Her only worry in that department was 
her seeming lack of success in training her daughters 
up to her elevation. She is usually sent for when 
important visitors come to Dashfontein, and would 
then don her best costume of coloured German print, 
and carry down with her the spotless apron which Mrs. 
V. gave her the preceding New Year ; and in spite of 
her advancing years, she would cause Anna, and every 
other upstart at the homestead, instinctively to play 
second fiddle to her. And when we suggested that our 
wife could measure swords (or, shall we say, forks) 
with her as a cook, she giggled and remembered some 
white man's proverb about the proof of the pudding 
being in the eating. 

After the harrowing experience of the previous 
week, during which we were forced to see our fellow- 
beings hounded out of their homes, and the homes 
broken up ; their lifelong earnings frittered away by 
a law of the land, their only crime being the atrocious 
one of having the same colour of skin as our own, 
and finding ourselves suddenly landed on an oasis, 
the farm of a kind Dutchman and his noble wife, on 
whose property, and by whose leave, little black pic- 
caninnies still played about in spite of the law, it can 
be readily understood with what comfort we sat down 
and did justice to the good things provided by Aunt 
Mietje. In the course of her preparation every step 
of hers suggested that she entertained no sort of mis- 
prised opinion about her superiority over her com* 



go NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


peers ; and nothing pleased her better than when she 
dazzled her husband and family connexions with deeds 
which proved her superiority over her contemporaries, 
in everything that tends to make the virtuous and 
industrious house-wife. She gave a dramatic ending 
to her husband's narrative when she said — 

'' Who would have thought that Hannetje, naughty 
little Hannetje, who was so troublesome when my 
sister used to nurse her — who would have thought that 
she would ever prove to be the salvation of our people ? 
Who ever anticipated that all the strong Boers, on 
whom we had relied, would desert us when the fate 
of our whole tribe hung in the balance ? Natives 
have been moving from north to south, and from 
south to north, all searching at the same time for 
homes and grazing for their cattle. During the last 
few weeks the roads were hidden in clouds of dust, sent 
up by hundreds of hoofs of hundreds of cattle, their 
owners with them, vainly seeking places of refuge ; but 
in the case of Dashfontein, we reclined on a veritable 
Mount Ararat, by grace of naughty little Hannetje, 
whom God in His mysterious foresight had raised up to 
be Mrs. van V., proprietress of Dashfontein. If my 
prayers are of any value, God will appoint in heaven a 
special place for her when she gets there, though, for the 
sake of our people, I hope that time is very far distant. 
However, I hope to be somewhere near : in truth, I 
should like to accompany her, when Elijah's chariot 
comes for her soul, so as to render her what little 
aid I can on board, when she soars through unknown 
tracts of space to the spirit world on high, so that if 
there be any uncomfortable questions about her 
maiden vagaries, I may be there to attest that she has 
since atoned a hundred fold for each, and thus 
accelerate her promotion. No no, Hannetje is not a 
Boer vrouw, she is an angel." 



CHAPTER VII 

PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN IN THE ORANGE 
FREE STATE 

Ripe persecution, like the plant 
Whose nascence Mocha boasted, 

Some bitter fruit produced, whose worth 
Was never known till roasted. 

W HEN the Free State ex-Republicans made 
use of the South African Constitution — a 
Constitution which Lord Gladstone says is one after 
the Boer sentiment — to ruin the coloured population, 
they should at least have confined their persecution 
to the male portion of the blacks (as is done in a milder 
manner in the other three Provinces), and have left 
the women and children alone. According to this 
class legislation, no native woman in the Province of 
the Orange " Free State can reside within a munici- 
pality (whether with or without her parents, or her 
husband) unless she can produce a permit showing 
that she is a servant in the employ of a white person, 
this permit being signed by the Town Clerk. All 
repressive measures under the old Republic (which, 
in matters of this kind, always showed a regard for 
the suzerainty of Great Britain) were mildly applied. 
Now, under the Union, the Republicans are told by 
the Imperial authorities that since they are self- 
governing they have the utmost freedom of actio_n, 

91 



92 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

including freedom to do wrong, without any fear of 
Imperial interference. Of this licence the white in- 
habitants of the Union are making the fullest use. 
Like a mastiff long held in the leash they are urging 
the application of all the former stringent measures 
enacted against the blacks, and the authorities, in 
obedience to their electoral supporters, are enforcing 
these measures with the utmost rigour against the 
blacks because they have no votes. 

Hence, whereas the pass regulations were formerly 
never enforced by the Boers against clergymen's 
wives or against the families of respectable native 
inhabitants, now a minister's wife has not only to 
produce a pass on demand, but, like every woman of 
colour, she has to pay a shilling for a fresh pass at the 
end of the month, so that a family consisting of, say, a 
mother and five daughters pay the municipality 6s. 
every month, whether as a penalty for the colour of 
their skins or a penalty for their sex it is not clear 
which. 

There is some unexplained anomaly in this 
woman's pass business. If the writer were to go and 
live in the Free " State, he could apply for and 
obtain letters of exemption from the ordinary pass 
laws ; but if his wife, who has had a better school- 
ing and enjoyed an older civilization than he, were 
to go and reside in the " Free " State with her 
daughters, all of them would be forced to carry 
passes on their persons, and be called upon to 
ransack their skirt pockets at any time in the public 
streets at the behest of male policemen in quest 
of their passes. Several white men are at present 
undergoing long terms of imprisonment inflicted by 
the Orange " Free " State Circuit Courts for criminally 
outraging coloured women whom the pass laws had 
placed in the hollow of the hands of these ruffians. 



PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN 93 


Still many more mothers are smothering evidence of 
similar outrages upon innocent daughters — cases that 
could never have happened under ordinary circum- 
stances. 

The Natives of the Free '' State have made all 
possible constitutional appeals against these outrages. 
In reply to their petitions the Provincial Government 
blames the municipalities. The latter blame the law 
and the Union Parliament, and there the matter ends. 
We have read the " Free State law which empowers 
the municipalities to frame regulations for the control 
of Natives, etc., but it must be confessed that our 
limited intelligence could discern nothing in it which 
could be construed as imposing any dire penalties on 
municipalities which emancipate their coloured women 
from the burden of the insidious pass law and tax. 
Hon. Mr. H. Burton, as already stated, was Minister 
for Native Affairs before the Union Government 
surrendered to the '' Free " State reactionaries. A 
deputation consisting of Mrs. A. S. Gabashane, Mrs. 
Kotsi and Mrs. Louw, women from Bloemfontein — 
the first-named being a clergyman's wife — waited on 
him in Capetown on the subject of these grievances, 
and he assured them that in response to representations 
made by the Native Congress, he had already written 
to Dr. Ramsbottom, the Provincial Administrator, 
asking him to persuade the " Free " State municipali- 
ties to relieve the native women from this burden. 
And if to relieve native women in the " Free " State 
from a burden which obtains nowhere else in the 
Union were unlawful, as the municipalities aver, Mr. 
Burton — a K.C. — would have been the last person to 
ask them to break the law. 

Subsequently the women petitioned Lady Gladstone 
for her intercession. But we wonder if the petition 
was ever handed to Lady Gladstone by the responsible 



94 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


authority who, in this instance, would have been the 
Department of Native Affairs. Notwithstanding 
all these efforts, native women in the '' Free '' 
State are still forced to buy passes every month or 
go to prison, and they are still exposed to the indecent 
provision of the law authorizing male constables to 
insult them by day and by night, without distinc- 
tion. 

After exhausting all these constitutional means 
on behalf of their women, and witnessing the spread 
of the trouble to the women and children of the country 
districts under the Natives' Land Act, the male Natives 
of the municipalities of the Province of the Orange 

Free " State saw their women folk throwing off their 
shawls and taking the " law " into their own hands. 
A crowd of 600 women, in July, 1913, marched to 
the Municipal Offices at Bloemfontein and asked to 
see the Mayor. He was not in, so they called for 
the Town Clerk. The Deputy-Mayor came out, and 
they deposited before him a bag containing their passes 
of the previous month and politely signified their in- 
tention not to buy any more passes. Then there 

occurred what John Bull would call, 1 with 

the lid off." 

At Jagersfontein there was a similar demonstration, 
led by a jet-black Mozambique lady. She and a 
number of others were arrested and sentenced to 
various terms of imprisonment. The sentences ranged 
from about three weeks to three months, and the fines 
from los. to £3. They all refused to pay the fines, 
and said their little ones could be entrusted to the 
care of Providence till their mothers and sisters have 
broken the shackles of oppression by means of passive 
resistance. As the prison authorities were scarcely 
prepared for such a sudden influx of prisoners there 
was not sufficient accommodation for fifty- two women, 



PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN 95 

who were conveyed on donkey carts to the adjoining 
village of Fauresmith. 

When this happened, Winburg, the old capital of 
the " Free " State, also had a similar trouble. Eight 
hundred women marched from the native location 
to the Town Hall, singing hymns, and addressed the 
authorities. They were tired of making friendly 
appeals which bore no fruit from year's end to year's 
end, so they had resolved, they said, to carry no more 
passes, much less to pay a shilling each per month, per 
capita, for passes. A procession of so many women 
would attract attention even in Piccadilly, but in a 
'' Free " State dorp it was a stupendous event, and 
it made a striking impression. The result was that 
many of the women were arrested and sent to prison, 
but they all resolutely refused to pay their fines, and 
there was a rumour that the Central Government 
had been appealed to for funds and for material to fit 
out a new jail to cope with the difficulty. 

This movement served to exasperate the authorities, 
who rigorously enforced the law and sent them to jail. 
The first batch of prisoners from Bloemfontein were 
conveyed south to Edenburg ; and as further batches 
came down from Bloemfontein they had to be re- 
transferred north to Kroonstad. In the course of 
our tour in connexion with the Natives' Land Act in 
August, 1913, we spent a week-end with the Rev. 
A. P. Pitso, of the last-named town. Thirty-four of 
the women passive resisters were still incarcerated 
there, doing hard labour. Mrs. Pitso and Mrs. Michael 
Petrus went with us on the Sunday morning to visit 
the prisoners at the jail. 

A severe shock burst upon us, inside the prison 
walls, when the matron withdrew the barriers and 
the emaciated figures of ladies and young girls bf 
our acquaintance filed out and greeted us. It was 



96 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

an exceptionally cold week, and our hearts bled to 
see young women of Bloemfontein, who had spent 
all their lives in the capital and never knew what it 
was to walk without socks, walking the chilly 
cemented floors and the cold and sharp pebbles with- 
out boots. Their own boots and shoes had been 
taken off, they told us, and they were, throughout 
the winter, forced to perform hard labour barefooted. 

Was ever inhumanity more cold-blooded ? 

Do these Free " Staters consider their brutality 
less brutal because it happens to be sanctioned by 
law ? 

Is Heaven so entirely unmindful of our case that 
it looks on with indifference when indignity upon 
indignity is heaped, not only upon our innocent men, 
but even upon our inoffensive women ? 

Tears rolled down our cheeks as we saw the cracks 
on their bare feet, the swellings and chronic chilblains, 
which made them look like sheep suffering from foot- 
and-mouth disease. It was torture to us to learn the 
kind of punishment to which they were subjected and 
the nature of the work they were called upon to per- 
form ; these facts were stated to us in the presence 
of the prison officials, and they were communicated 
by us to the Native Affairs Department merely as a 
matter of course. But what must be the effect of this 
brutal punishment upon girls who knew only city hfe ? 
To our surprise, however, they vowed never to buy 
passes, even if they had to come back. 

A month later, when we visited Bloemfontein, a 
majority of those who were at the Kroonstad jail 
had already returned to their homes, and the family 
doctors were doing a roaring trade. Their practice, 
too, was most likely to continue to boom as the sufferers 
were still determined to buy no more women's passes. 

This determination caused a white man to suggest 



PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN 97 


that '' instead of being sent to prison with hard labour, 
these madcaps should be flogged " — and this because 
the women refuse to be outraged by law. 

Our visit to Kroonstad took place just after the 
Circuit Court had convicted the white superintendent 
of the Kroonstad Native Location for an outrage upon 
a coloured woman. He arrested her in the location 
ostensibly because she could not produce her residen- 
tial pass, and in the field between the location and the 
town through which he had to escort her to prison he 
perpetrated the atrocity. In sentencing him to four 
years' hard labour, the Chief Justice said for a similar 
crime upon a white woman a black man would be 
liable to the death penalty. 

When General Botha assumed the portfolio of 
Native Affairs at the time of this trouble, the writer, 
as General Secretary of the Congress, telegraphed to 
him the greetings of the South African Native Congress, 
and pointed out to him that over two hundred coloured 
women were at that time languishing in jail for resent- 
ing a crime committed upon them, a crime which 
would have been considered serious in any other place 
outside the Free " State. The chivalrous General 
replied in a Dutch telegram containing this very 
courteous reply : "It shall be my endeavour, as 
hitherto, to safeguard the just interests of the inhabi- 
tants of this land irrespective of colour." 

General Botha's assurances are so sweet, especially 
when they are made to persons who are not in a position 
to influence his electoral support. The Natives, who 
know the sweets " of these assurances cannot be 
blamed if they analyse the Premier's assurances in the 
light of their past experience, especially the phrase 
' as hitherto." To them it conveys but one idea, 
namely, If the future policy of the South African 
Government found it convenient to send coloured 



98 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


women to prison in order to please the ruUng whites, 
they will, as hitherto, not hesitate to do so.'' 

While on the subject of native women, it is deeply 
to be regretted that during this year, while the Em- 
pire is waging a terrible war for the cause of liberty. 
His Excellency the Governor-General in South Africa 
should have seen his way to issue a Basutoland Pro- 
clamation — No. 3 of 1915. This law decrees that 
under certain penalties, no native woman will be per- 
mitted to leave Basutoland '' without the permission 
of her husband or guardian." The Proclamation 
on the face of it may look comparatively harmless, but 
its operation will have wide and painful ramifications 
amounting to no less than an entrenchment oi the 
evils embraced in polygamy ; and in carrying out 
this decree civilization will have to join hands with 
barbarism to perpetuate the bondage, and accen- 
tuate the degradation, of Basuto women. 

It is a fact that no respectable Mosuto woman wants 
to leave her husband or guardian ; but the economic 
conditions of to-day press very heavily on polygamous 
wives. Their lord and master finding himself no 
longer able to provide for half a dozen houses at a 
time, bestows on them the burden and anxieties of 
wifehood without its joys, namely, a husband's un- 
divided care and the comforts due to wives in mono- 
gamous marriages. 

Some of these polygamous wives have from time 
to time sought relief in emigrating to European cen- 
tres where they could earn their own living and send 
food and raiment to their little ones. A woman can- 
not always be blamed for having entered into a poly- 
gamous marriage. More often than not, she did so 
in obedience to the wishes of her aged parents. The 
old people, in many instances, have judged present 
day economics from the standard of their own happy 



PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN 99 


days when there was plenty of land and rainfalls were 
more regular ; when the several wives and children 
of a rich cattle-owner could always have enough 
grain, eat meat, drink milk and live happily. But 
times are altered and even a monogamist finds the 
requirements of one wife quite a stupendous hand- 
ful. The country is so congested that the little arable 
land left them yields hardly any produce. I have 
seen it suggested in official documents that sheep- 
breeding should be limited in Basutoland as there 
is not enough grazing for the flocks. And under 
this economic stress these surplus wives are some- 
times driven to accept the overtures of unscrupulous 
men who gradually induce them to wallow in sin ; 
hence too, they give birth to an inferior type of Basuto. 

That such a law should be adopted during the 
reign of Chief Griffith, their first Christian Chief and 
the first monogamist who ever ruled the Basuto, is 
disappointing. And while we resent the policy of 
the British authorities in the Union, who promote 
the interests of the whites by repressing the blacks, 
we shall likewise object to an attempt on the part of 
the same authorities in the native territories to 
protect the comfort of black men by degrading black 
women. God knows that the lot of the black woman 
in South Africa is bad as it is. One has but to read 
the report of the Commission recently appointed by 
the Union Government to inquire into cases of assault 
on women to find that their condition is getting worse. 
Presumably the evidence was too bad for publication, 
but the report would seem to show that in South 
Africa, a country where prostitution was formerly 
unknown, coloured women are gradually perverted 
and demoralized into a cesspool for the impurities 
of the family lives of all the nationalities in the sub- 
continent, 



100 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


In her primitive state, the native girl was pro- 
tected against seduction and moral ruin by drastic 
penalties against the seducer, which safeguards have 
since the introduction of civilized rule been done 
away with. With tribes just groping their way from 
barbarism towards civilization natural hygienic and 
moral laws have been trampled upon, and for this 
state of affairs the white man's rule is not wholly free 
from blame. It should be a crime to defile a poten- 
tial mother and a woman should continue to be re- 
garded as the cradle of the race and her person remain 
sacred and inviolate under the law, as was the case in 
former times. 

The only charge that could be brought up against 
primitive native socialism was that by tolerating 
polygamy it had incidentally legalized concubinage ; 
but taking all circumstances into consideration, it 
is doubtful if the systematic prostitution of to-day 
is a happy substitution for the polygamy of the past. 

There were no mothers of unwanted babies ; no 
orphanages, because there were no stray children ; the 
absence of extreme wealth and dire poverty prevented 
destitution, and the Natives had little or no insanity ; 
they had no cancer or syphilis, and no venereal diseases 
because they had no prostitutes. 

Have we not a right to expect a better state of 
affairs under civilized European rule ? 

It is apparently in revolt of similar horrible condi- 
tions that when the war broke out, British and Con- 
tinental women were fighting for the vote with a view 
to liberating their sex and race from kindred impuri- 
ties, for the soul rises up in divine discontent " 
against a state of affairs which no nation should 
tolerate — evils to which the coloured women of South 
Africa are now a prey. 

To this kind of degeneracy may also be traced the 



PERSECUTION OF COLOURED WOMEN loi 

undoing of the finer elements of the native social 
system, the undermining of their health and of the 
erstwhile splendid physique of the African race and 
the increasing loss of the stamina of our proverbially 
magnificent men and women. The effect of these 
evils and of the abuses inherent to the liquor traffic 
is manifest in several of the tribes who are to-day but 
shadows of their former selves. 

The safeguarding of our maidens and women folk 
from the evils of drink, greed and outrages resulting 
from indefensible pass laws and the elimination of bad 
habits among men by a rightful policy will restore 
that efficiency, loyalty, and contentment which afore- 
time were the boast of pioneer administi-ators in 
British South Africa, and which if fostered will 
render them a magnificent asset to the Empire for 
all time. 

But as often as the coloured woman has been at- 
tacked she has humbly presented the other cheek.'' 
Evidence of her characteristic humility is to be found 
in the action of the coloured women of the '"Free" 
State, whose persecution by the South African Govern- 
ment, at the instance of certain " Free " State Munici- 
palities, prompted the writing of this chapter. After 
the war broke out (the Bloemfontein Friend tells us) 
the native women of that city forgot their own diffi- 
culties, joined sewing classes, and helped to send 
clothing to the afflicted Belgians in Europe. Surely 
such useful members of the community deserve the 
sympathy of every right-minded person who has a 
voice in the conduct of British Colonial administra- 
tion ; so let us hope that this humble appeal on their 
behalf will not be in vain. 



CHAPTER VIII 

AT THABA NCHO : A SECRETARIAL FIASCO 

Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn, 

Burks. 

T he beginning of September, 1913, found us in 
the Lady Brand district. Besides numerous 
other sufferers of the land plague, the writer was here 
informed of one case that was particularly distressing, 
of a native couple evicted from a farm in the adjoining 
district. After making a fruitless search for a new 
place of abode, they took out a travelling pass to go 
to Basutoland with their stock. But they never, so 
the story went, reached their destination. We were 
told that they were ambushed by some Dutchmen, 
who shot them down and appropriated their stock. 
To a stranger the news would have been incredible, 
but, being a Free Stater bom, it sounded to us uncom- 
monly like the occurrences that our parents said they 
used to witness in the early days of that precious 
dependency. We were further told that one of the 
Dutch murderers had been arrested and was awaiting 
his trial at the next criminal sessions. As both the 
native man and woman were shot, it seemed difficult 
to conceive how the prosecution could find the neces- 
sary evidence to sustain a charge of murder. 

The trial duly came off at Bloemfontein a month 
or two later, and the evidence in court seemed more 
direct and less circumstantial than we had expected. 

102 



AT THABA NCHO 103 

For, not only were the stolen cattle found in the 
possession of the prisoner, but the bullet picked up 
near the bodies of the dead refugees (according to 
the evidence given in court) fitted the prisoner's 
pistol. General Hertzog personally attended the court 
at Bloemfontein and conducted the defence ; and, 
presumably more by his eloquence than anything else, 
he convinced a white jury of the guiltlessness of the 
accused, who was acquitted and acclaimed outside 
the court by his friends as a hero. In justice to the 
police it must be added that they re-arrested this 
man and charged him with the theft, or with being 
in possession of the deceased Natives' cattle. On 
this charge the prisoner was convicted before the* Cir- 
cuit Court a few months later, and in sentencing him 
to three years, with hard labour, the presiding judge 
is said to have made some references to the previous 
trial and the manner in which the prisoner had escaped 
the capital sentence. 

From Lady Brand we travelled south towards 
Wepener, not far from the Basuto frontier. Evictions 
around here were numerous, but beyond the inevitable 
hardships of families suddenly driven from home, they 
had not suffered any great amount of damage. 
Being near to the Basuto border, a Native in these 
parts, when ejected, can quickly take his stock across 
the boundary, and leaving them in friendly pastures, 
under sympathetic laws, go away to look for a 
new place. But it became abundantly clear that 
the influx of outsiders into Basutoland could not con- 
tinue at the rate it was then proceeding without serf- ^ 
ously complicating the land question in Basutoland, 
where chieftains are constantly quarrelling over small 
patches of arable land. 

A pitiable spectacle, however, was the sight of 
those who had been evicted from the centre of the 



104 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 

Orange " Free State. It was heartrending to hear 
them relate the circumstances of their expulsions, 
and how they had spent the winter months roaming 
from farm to farm with their famishing stock, applying 
in vain for a resting place. Some farmers were appar- 
ently sympathetic, but debarred from entertaining 
such applications by the sword of Damocles — the 
£100 fine in Section 5 of the Natives' Land Act — they 
had perforce to refuse the applicants. The farms 
hereabout are owned by Boers and English settlers, 
but many are owned by Germans, Jews, Russians, and 
other Continentals. Some of the proprietors do not 
reside on the farms at all ; they are either Hebrew 
merchants or lawyers, living in the towns and villages 
away from the farms. Many have no wish to part 
with the Natives, who seem invariably to have treated 
their landlords well, but they are forced to do so by 
the law. 

It seems a curious commentary on the irony of things 
that South Africa, which so tyrannically chases her 
own Natives from the country, receives at this very 
time with open arms Polish, Finnish, Russian and 
German Jews, who themselves are said to have fled 
from the tyranny of their own Governments in Europe. 
With a vengeance, it looks like robbing Peter to 
pay Paul.'' 

Standing by the side of a kopje, very early on that 
September morning, it was a relief to see the majestic 
tops of the mountains of Basutoland, silhouetted against 
the rising sun, beyond the Caledon River, which separ- 
ates the Free " State from Basutoland. 

A number of fugitives were at that time driving 
little lots of stock across the broad and level flats 
which extend in the direction of the Basutoland Pro- 
tectorate. How comforting to know that once they 
crossed the river, these exiles could rest their tired 



AT THABA NCHO 105 

limbs and water their animals without breaking any 
law. Really until we saw those emaciated animals, 
it had never so forcibly occurred to us that it is as 
bad to be a black man's animal as it is to be a black 
man in South Africa. 

To think that this '' Free " State land from which 
these people are now expelled was at one time, 
and should still be, part and parcel of Basutoland ; 
and to remember that the fathers of these Natives, 
who are now fleeing from the '' Free " State laws, 
were allies of the Boers, whom they assisted to 
drive the Basutos from this habitable and arable 
part of their land ; that with their own rations, their 
own horses, their own rifles, and often their own am- 
munition, they helped the Boers to force the Basutos 
back into their present mountain recesses, and com- 
pelled them to build fresh homes in all but uninhabitable 
mountain fastnesses, in many instances inaccessible 
to vehicles of any kind, in order (as was said at the 
time) to give themselves more elbow-room " ; to 
see them to-day fleeing from the laws of their per- 
fidious Dutch allies, expelled from the country for 
which they bled and for which their fathers died ; and 
to find that, at the risk of intensifying their own domes- 
tic problems in their now diminutive and overcrowded 
Mountain State, the Basutos are nobly offering an 
asylum to those who had helped to deprive them 
of their country ; and to remember that this mean 
breach of faith, on the part of ex- Republicans towards 
their native allies, is facilitated by the protection of 
the Union Jack, sheds, in regard to the Basutos, a 
glorious ray of light upon black human nature. 

Look at these exiles swarming towards the Basuto 
border, some of them with their belongings on their 
heads, driving their emaciated flocks attenuated by 
starvation and the cold. The faces of some of the 



io6 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

children, too, are livid from the cold. It looks as if 
these people were so many fugitives escaping from 
a war, with the enemy pressing hard at their 
heels. 

It was a distressing sight. We had never seen the 
likes of it since the outbreak of the Boer War, near 
the Transvaal border, immediately before the siege 
of Mafeking. Even that flight of 1899 had a buoyanc}^ 
of its own, for the Boer War, unlike the present 
stealthy war of extermination (the law which caused 
this flight), was preceded by an ultimatum. But the 
sight of a people who had loyally paid taxation put 
to flight in these halcyon times, by a Parliament the 
huge salaries of whose members these very exiles, 
although unrepresented in its body, have meekly 
helped to pay, turned one's weeping eyes to Heaven, 
for, as Jean Paul says, '' There above is everything 
he can wish for here below." But if the Native of 
other days has been sold by the perfidy of his Dutch 
allies of the day, the British soldiers and British tax- 
payer of the present day have been deceived by " we 
don't know who," They fought and died and paid to 
unfurl the banner of freedom in this part of the globe, 
and the spectacle before us is the result. This must 
be what A. H. Keene referred to when he said, The 
British public were also dumb, and with that infinite 
capacity for being gulled which is so remarkable in a 
people proud of their common sense, acquiesced in 
everything." 

Visiting the farms, we found some native tenants 
under notice to leave. We informed them that 
Mr. Edward Dower, the Secretary for Native Affairs, 
would be in Thaba Ncho the following week, and 
advised them to proceed to the town and lay their 
difficulties before this high representative of the 
Union Government, with a request for the use of 



AT THABA NCHO 107 

his good offices to procure for them the Governor- 
GeneraFs permission to live on farms, a course pro- 
vided in Section i of the Natives' Land Act. We 
made no promises, as previous requests for such per- 
mission had been invariably ignored. But we hoped 
that the Government Secretary's meeting with the 
sufferers and speaking with them face to face would 
soften the implacable red-tape and official circum- 
locution, and perhaps even open the way towards a 
modification of the administration of this legislative 
atrocity ; but we were mistaken. 

The meeting duly took place on Friday, September 
12, 1913. A thousand Natives gathered at the race- 
course on the wide level country between the railway 
station and Thaba Ncho town. A few historical facts 
relative to Thaba Ncho might not be out of place. 

Thaba Ncho (Mount Black) takes its name from the 
hill below which the town is situated. Formerly this 
part of Africa was peopled by Bushmen and subse- 
quently by Basutos. The Barolong, a section of 
the Bechuana, came here from Motlhanapitse, a 
place in the Western Free " State, to which place 
they had been driven by Mzilikasi's hordes from 
over the Vaal in the early 'twenties. The Barolongs 
settled in Thaba Ncho during the early 'thirties 
under an agreement with Chief Mosheshe. The 
Seleka branch of the Barolong nation, under Chief 
Moroka, after settling here, befriended the immigrant 
Boers who were on their way to the north country 
from the south and from Natal during the 'thirties. 
A party of immigrant Boers had an encounter with 
Mzilikasi's forces of Matabele. Up in Bechuanaland 
the powerful Matabele had scattered the other Baro- 
long tribes and forced them to move south and join 
their brethren under Moroka. Thus during the 'thirties 
circumstances had formed a bond of sympathy between 



io8 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


the Boers and Barolongs in their mutual regard of the 
terrible Matabele as a common foe. 

But the story of the relations between the Boers 
and the Barolong needs no comment : it is con- 
sistent with the general policy of the Boers, which, 
as far as Natives are concerned, draws no dis- 
tinction between friend and foe. It was thus that 
Hendrik Potgieter's Voortrekkers forsook the more 
equitable laws of Cape Colony, particularly that 
relating to the emancipation of the slaves, and 
journeyed north to establish a social condition in 
the interior under which they might enslave the 
Natives without British interference. The fact that 
Great Britain gave monetary compensation for 
the liberated slaves did not apparently assuage their 
strong feelings on the subject of slavery ; hence they 
were anxious to get beyond the hateful reach of 
British sway. They were sweeping through the coun- 
try with their wagons, their families, their cattle, and 
their other belongings, when in the course of their march, 
Potgieter met the Matabele far away in the Northern 
Free State near a place called Vecht-kop. The trekkers 
made use of their firearms, but this did not prevent 
them from being severely punished by the Matabeles, 
who marched off with their horses and live stock and 
left the Boers in a hopeless condition, with their families 
still exposed to further attacks. Potgieter sent back 
word to Chief Moroka asking for assistance, and it was 
immediately granted. 

Chief Moroka made a general collection of draught 
oxen from amongst his tribe, and these with a party 
of Barolong warriors were sent to the relief of the 
defeated Boers, and to bring them back to a place of 
safety behind Thaba Ncho Hill, a regular refugee 
camp, which the Boers named " Moroka's Hoek.'" 
But the wayfarers were now threatened with starva- 



¦'AT'T'imBA NCHO 


109 

tion ; arid^as they were guests of honour amongst his 
people, the Chief Moroka made a second collection 
of cattle, and the Barolong responded with unheard- 
of liberality. Enough milch cows, and sheep, and 
goats were thus obtained for a liberal distribu- 
tion among the Boer families, who, compared with 
the large numbers of their hospitable hosts, were 
relatively few. Hides and skins were also collected 
from the tribesmen, and their tanners were set to 
work to assist in making veldschoens (shoes), velhfoeks 
(skin trousers), and karosses (sheepskin rugs) for the 
tattered and footsore Boers and their children. The 
oxen which they received at Vechtkop they were 
allowed to keep, and these came in very handy for 
ploughing and transport purposes. No doubt the 
Rev. Mr. Archbell, the Wesleyan Methodist missionary 
and apostle to the Barolong, played an active part on 
the Barolong Relief Committee, and, at that time, there 
were no more grateful people on earth than Hendrik 
Potgieter and his party of stricken voortrekkers. 

After a rest of many moons and communicating 
with friends at Cape Colony and Natal, the Dutch 
leader held a council of war with the Barolong chiefs. 
He asked them to reinforce his punitive expedition 
against the Matabele. Of course they were to use their 
own materials and munitions and, as a reward, they 
were to retain whatever stock they might capture from 
the Matabele ; but the Barolongs did not quite like the 
terms. Tauana especially told Potgieter that he 
himself was a refugee in the land of his brother 
Moroka. His country was Bechuanaland, and he 
could only accompany the expedition on condition 
that the Matabele stronghold at Coenyane (now 
Western Transvaal) be smashed up, Mzilikasi driven 
from the neighbourhood and the Barolong returned to_ 
their homes in the land of the Bechuana, the Boers 



no NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AJ^i'CA 

¥ 

themselves retaining the country to the east and the 
south (now the Free '' State and the Transvaal). 
That this could be done Tauana had no doubt, for 
since they came to Thaba Ncho, the Barolong had 
acquired the use of firearms — long-range weapons — 
which were still unknown to the Matabele, who only 
used hand spears. This was agreed to, and a vow 
was made accordingly. To make assurance doubly 
sure, Tauana sent his son Motshegare to enlist the co- 
operation of a Griqua by the name of Pieter Dout, 
who also had a bone to pick with the Matabele. 

Pieter Dout consented, and joined the expedition 
with a number of mounted men, and for the time being 
the Boer-Barolong-Griqua combination proved a 
happy one. The expedition was successful beyond 
the most sanguine expectations of its promoters. 
The Matabele were routed, and King Mzilikasi was 
driven north, where he founded the kingdom of 
Matabeleland — now Southern Rhodesia — having left 
the allies to share his old haunts in the south. 

This successful expedition was the immediate out- 
come of the friendly alliance between the Boers 
in the '' Free " State and Moroka's Barolong at 
Thaba Ncho. But Boers make bad neighbours in 
Africa, and, on that account, the Government of 
the Free State thereafter proved a continual 
menace to the Basuto, their neighbours to the east. 
Pretexts were readily found and hostile inroads 
constantly engineered against the Basuto for pur- 
poses of aggression, and the friendliness of the 
Barolong was frequently exploited by the Boers in 
their raids, undertaken to drive the Basuto further 
back into the mountains. This, however, must be 
said to the honour of the mid-nineteenth century 
** Free '' Staters, in contrast to the Free '' Staters 
of later date : that the earlier '' Free '' Staters re- 



AT THABA NCHO 


III 


warded the loyalty of their Barolong allies by recog- 
nizing and respecting Thaba Ncho as a friendly native 
State ; but it must also be stated that the bargain 
was all in the favour of one side ; thereby all the land 
captured from the Basuto was annexed to the '' Free 
State, while the dusky warriors of Moroka, who bore 
the brunt of the battles, got nothing for their pains. 
So much was this the case that Thaba Ncho, which 
formerly lay between the '' Free '' State and Basuto- 
land, was subsequently entirely surrounded by '' Free '' 
State territory. 

Eventually Chief Moroka died, and a dispute ensued 
between his sons concerning the chieftainship. Some 
Boers took sides in this dispute and accentuated the 
differences. In 1884, Chief Tsipinare, Moroka's suc- 
cessor, was murdered after a night attack by followers 
of his brother Samuel, assisted by a party of " Free 
State Boers. It is definitely stated that the unfortu- 
nate chief valiantly defended himself. He kept his 
assailants at bay for the best part of the day by shooting 
at them through the windows of his house, which they 
had surrounded ; and it was only by setting fire to the 
house that they managed to get the chief out, and 
shoot him. As a matter of fact the house was set on 
fire by the advice of one of the Boers, and it is said 
that it was a bullet from the rifle of one of these 
Boers that killed Chief Tsipinare. 

President Brand, the faithful ally of the dead chief- 
tain, called out the burghers who reached Thaba Ncho 
after the strife was over. He annexed Thaba Ncho 
to the Free '' State, and banished the rival chief 
from Free '' State territory, with all his followers. 
The Dutch members of the party which assassinated 
the chief were put upon a kind of trial, and discharged 
hy a white jury at Bloemfontein. 

Of course, Boers could not be expected to participate 



II2 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


in any adventure which did not immediately lead to 
land grabbing. But, fortunately for some Barolongs, 
the dead chief had in his lifetime surveyed some farms 
and granted freehold title to some of the tribesmen. 
In fact, his death took place while he was engaged in 
that democratic undertaking. The Boer Govern- 
ment, which annexed the territory, confiscated all the 
land not yet surveyed, and passed a law to the effect 
that those Barolongs who held individual title to land 
could only sell their farms to white people. It must, 
however, be added that successive Boer Presidents 
have always granted written exemptions from this 
drastic measure. So that any Native who wanted to 
buy a farm could always do so by applying for the 
President's permission, while, of course, no permission 
was necessary to sell to a white man ; several Natives, 
to the author's knowledge, have thus bought farms 
from Natives, and also from white men, by permission 
of the State President, and the severity of the pro- 
hibition was never felt. But after the British occu- 
pation in 1900, the Natives keenly felt this measure, 
as the Governor, when appealed to by a Native for 
permission to buy a farm, always replied that he had 
no power to break the law. Thus, under the Union 
Jack, sales have gone on from black to white, but none 
from white to black, or even from black to black. In 
the crowd which met Mr. Dower that morning were 
two Barolong young men who had lately inherited a 
farm each under the will of their deceased uncle, and 
the law will not permit the Registrar of Deeds to give 
them title to their inheritance ; their numerous repre- 
sentations to the Union authorities have only met 
with promises, while lawyers have taken advantage of 
the hitch to mulct them in more money than the land 
is worth. The best legal advice they have received 
is that they should sell their inheritances to white men. 



AT THABA NCHO 


113 

Now the Natives' Land Act, as applied to the whole 
Union of South Africa, is modelled on these highly 
unsatisfactory conditions relating to land in the '' Free " 
State. The six months' imprisonment, the £100 fine, 
and other penalties for inf ringement of the Land Act, 
are borrowed from Chapter XXXIV of the Free " 
State laws, to which reference is made in Section 7 of 
the Natives' Land Act. Section 8 of the Natives' Land 
Act is a re-enactment of some of the reprehensible 
'' Free " State land laws which had been repealed by 
the Crown Colony Government after the British occu- 
pation in 1900. When the Natives' Land Bill was 
before Parliament the Opposition moved that the 
remaining native farms be scheduled as a native area, 
where Natives might purchase farms, of course from 
other Natives. The passage of such an amend- 
ment was more than could be expected as the real 
object of the Natives' Land Bill was to block every 
possible means whereby a Native may acquire land 
from a Native, or from any one else ; but when the 
motion was rejected the Natives of Thaba Ncho were 
exceedingly alarmed. They telegraphed their fears 
to Mr. Sauer, who promised to visit them when Par- 
liament rose, but his purpose was frustrated by his 
death, immediately after the passage of the Act. 

To return to Mr. Dower's meeting, the Native 
Affairs Secretary received a warm welcome from the 
Natives, who hoped that his coming would show 
them a way out of their dilemma. As already 
stated, a thousand Natives came from the sur- 
rounding farms, some on horseback, others on 
bicycles, and other conveyances such as carts, wagons, 
etc. ; they included evicted wanderers and native 
tenants under notice to leave their farms, with letters 
of eviction and other evidence in their pockets ; they 
included some refugees, who had likewise been evicted 

H 



II4 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

from other districts — refugees who, as one of them 
put it, were '' constantly on the move, and hurried 
hither to plead for shelter for our homeless families, 
now living in wagons/' 

The morning was showery. Thaba Ncho Hill in 
the background, always visible for scores of miles 
in every direction, towered high above the surround- 
ing landscape. Its stony slopes covered with a light 
mist from peak to base, it stood like a silent witness 
to the outraged treaty between the Barolong and 
the Boers. 

Mr. Dower, who was accompanied by his secretary 
(Mr. Apthorpe) and the Thaba Ncho Magistrate (Major 
Robertson) and the Location Superintendent, addressed 
the Natives for half an hour. The speeches were cor- 
rectly interpreted by Mr. Jeremiah Makgothi, a native 
farmer, and formerly a local school teacher, who col- 
laborated with Canon Crisp in the translation of the 
Scriptures into Serolong for the world-renowned 
S.P.C .K. The Rev. P. K. Motiyane, the local Wesleyan 
minister, also assisted in the task of interpretation. 

Mr. Dower made some pathetic references to the 
life and work of the late Hon. J. W. Sauer, the great 
Cape politician who had just passed away; then he 
proceeded to refer at length to sundry inconsequential 
topics of minor local significance ; and, having repeated 
his great pleasure at seeing them, without making a 
single reference to the momentous measure that was 
ravaging the Natives of the country, the Government 
Secretary resumed his seat amidst looks of astonish- 
ment and consternation from the assembled Natives. 

The Rev. J. D. Goronyane, a gentleman who, as 
secretary to the late chiefs, played a leading part in 
the Boer-Barolong relations of the nineteenth century, 
was the next speaker. He thanked the Secretary for 
coming. No people, he said, regretted Mr. Sauer's 



AT THABA NCHO 


115 

death more than the Barolong ; they had looked 
forward to meeting him in connexion with the new 
cloud now looming over the country In the shape of 
the Land Act, and they were sorry that his coming 
had been frustrated by a Higher Power. Turning to 
Mr. Dower, he said : '' All the people you see before 
you are frightened by the new law. They have come 
here for nothing else but to hear how they are expected 
to live under it.'' 

Other speakers followed, but when the actual suf- 
ferers began to' narrate their experiences there were 
so many who wished to come forward that the 
leaders decided that, their cases being more or less 
similar, they should wait and hear how the repre- 
sentative of the Government would deal with the 
cases of those who had already spoken. 

Mr. Dower's Reply 

He regretted that, as one speaker had said, some people read the Act 
through the spectacles coloured by their desires. Others seemed to be 
glad at the uncertainty and endeavoured to keep on turning the wheel 
of discontent. It was true that some people were imposing on the Natives, 
but, on the whole, there was a reasonable desire to comply with the Act, 
although it was not always properly understood. Few individuals had 
been evicted, though many had received notice. Some of the notices 
given under a misapprehension, and with a desire not to contravene the 
Act, had, since the Magistrates' explanations, actually been withdrawn. 
" So your best course is to explain the facts to your Magistrates, if possible, 
in the presence of the master." (A Voice : " Who'll bring him there ? ") 
After explaining that the principle of the Act was a first step towards 
territorial segregation, Mr. Dower said it gave protection to some parts 
of the country which formerly were not so protected. He mentioned 
as an instance that more than one-half of the farms formerly owned by 
Natives in that district were no longer in their possession. In other 
Provinces the A ct was restrictivey while in the Free State it was prohibitive. 
The old practice of '' sowing on the halves " might continue so long as 
the lawfully executed contracts lasted ; but at the expiration of those 
contracts the practice should cease, as Parliament had decided on its 
abolition. It amounted to a partnership between a white man and a 
black man. With a civilized Native the system might have been good, 
but a raw Native always got the worst of the partnership. He would 
advise them to make the best temporary arrangements within the four 
comers of the law. It might be by adopting one of three alternatives : 
(i) Become servants (in which case it would be legal for a master to give 
them pieces of land to plough and graze a number of stock); or (2) move 
into the reserve — (voices : " Where is the reserve ? ") ; or (3) dispose 



ii6 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


of the stock for cash. (Sensation.) The arrangement would only be 
temporary until Parliament took further steps in terms of the Commission's 
report. It would be better than trekking from pillar to post, till all the 
cattle had died out, and eventually returning penniless. Farmers always 
had the right to evict their native tenants. (A voice : " But we could 
go elsewhere.") Because some old laws which had been repealed had now 
been re-enacted, let them not think that there was a desire to oppress. 
" They may have been unjust, as you say, but understand that this law 
is not the last thing said by Parliament. A final settlement must depend 
on the recommendations of the Commission, and such action will be taken 
as will be to the lasting interests of white and black. The Lands Com- 
mission has already held its first sitting, and you will be serving your best 
interests by bringing all your information to the Magistrate, so that it 
be laid before the Commission. Show by your wise action that you are 
inspired by the justice of your case. The course of agitation will not help 
you. Remove suspicions and mistrust from your minds, and bring cases 
of real hardships to the Magistrate, who will see that this Act is administered 
as smoothly as possible. But the Act does not provide for any special 
cases in the Free State being submitted to the Governor-General under 
the first section of the Act." 

The concluding statement settled the minds of those 
who had expected from the Government any protection 
against the law, and the disappointment under which 
the meeting broke up was indescribable. This law 
is full of rude shocks, and this day this spokesman of 
the Government told the Natives that in the other three 
Provinces the Governor-General will only exercise his 
right in exceptional cases, while in the Free State 
the law did not permit him to exercise it even in such 
cases, so that the Government alone knows why that 
provision was inserted. 



CHAPTER IX 

THE FATEFUL I3 


He hath disgraced me and laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, 
scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated 
mine enemies ; and what is his reason ? I am a Kafir. 

Hath not a Kafir eyes ? hath not a Kafir hands, organs, dimensions, senses, 
affections, passions ? Is he not fed with the same food, hurt with 
the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same 
means, warmed and cooled by the same summer and winter as a 
white Afrikander ? 

If you prick us, do we not bleed ? If you tickle us, do we not laugh ? 
If you poison us, do we not die ? And if you wrong us, shall we not 
revenge ? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in 
that. 

Merchant of Venice. 

T he Natives of South Africa, generally speaking, 
are intensely superstitious. The fact that 
they are more impressionable than tractable causes 
them, it seems, to take naturally to religion, and 
seems a flat contradiction of Junius's assertion that 
" there are proselytes from atheism, but none from 
superstition." With some South African tribes it 
is unlucky to include goats amongst the animals paid 
by a young man's parents as the dowry for his bride ; 
it was equally bad to pay dowry in odd numbers of 
cattle. The payment must be made in an even num- 
ber of oxen, sheep, or other animals or articles, such 
as two, four, six, eight, ten, and so on. The man 
who could not afford more than one sheep to seal the 
marriage contract would have to exchange his goat 
for a sheep to make up a presentable pair. If he were 
too poor to do that, a needle or any other article was 

117 



ii8 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


admissible to make up the dowry to an even number, 
and so avoid giving one or three, or more odd numbers 
of articles. Conscious as they were of the existence 
of some Supreme Being, but worshipping no God, 
true or false, the white man's rehgion which makes 
such a worship obligatory through a mediator found 
easy access among so susceptible a people ; and with 
equal ease they likewise adopted the civilization of 
the white man. But the Natives received not only 
the white man's civilization and his religion, but have 
even gullibly imbibed his superstitions. Thus is 
their dread of the figure 13 accounted for. The 
Native witch-doctors in the early days took advan- 
tage of their credulity, whilst civilized people traded 
on their susceptibilities, and the semi-civilized Natives 
also traded upon the fears of their more impressionable 
brethren. 

To give a concrete case or two, we might say that 
when the main reservoir of the Kimberley water- 
works was built, one of the labourers one week-end 
lost the whole of his weekly pay. He inquired, and 
searched everywhere he could think of, but nobody 
had seen his missing purse. But on Monday morning 
he conceived a plan for the recovery of his lost purse. 
In pursuance of this plan, on the Monday he asked 
for and obtained a day off; then he declared to the 
gang of labourers that he was going to the nearest 
location to consult a bone-thrower. Instead of going 
to the location, however, he went to the open country, 
gathered some plants, returned to the dormitories 
while the others were at work, boiled the herbs in a 
pot of water and put it aside to cool. When the 
workmen returned for their midday meal he 'announced 
an imaginary consultation he had had with the bone- 
thrower, and that that functionary had divined the 
whereabouts of the purse ; it was to the effect that 



THE FATEFUL 13 


119 

the purse had been stolen and was in the possession 
of a fellow-worker. The doctor/' he said ''gave 
me some herbs. I have cooked them, and by his 
direction each of you is invited to immerse his hands 
in the decoction which is now cool. If you are not 
the thief, nothing would happen to you, but to the 
one who has stolen my money," he added with 
emphasis, " the doctor said that the medicine will 
snap the thief's fingers clean off and leave him only 
with the palm." 

One by one the men dipped their hands in the 
"medicine," and as they took turns at the pot, one 
young fellow at length became visibly disturbed, 
and believing that the concoction was true, he con- 
fessed to the theft and undertook to refund the money, 
rather than lose his fingers. 

Another case was this. " A Transkeian mis- 
sionary once heard of the serious indisposition of a 
Native. It was not a natural sickness, it was believed, 
but was the effect of sorcery, and news in that sense 
was noised abroad. Such cases primitive Natives 
believe to be beyond the skill of a medical man. White 
doctors, they would say, know next to nothing at all 
about such things. They do not believe in witch- 
craft and how could they be expected to be able to 
smell it out of a patient. Only a witch-doctor — if 
he is more skilful — can smell out and subdue the 
charm directed by another witch-doctor into the 
body of the bewitched. 

Having heard this piece of native philosophy on 
witchcraft, the missionary startled the Natives by 
telling them in their own tongue that he could cure 
the ^sease. And he did cure it. He captured a 
baby lizard from the rocks which abound in the 
undulations of most parts of the Transkei. 
He hid it in the inside pocket of his coat and pro- 



120 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


ceeded to the sick-bed with some real medicines in 
his hand. '' When a man who is not sick imagines 
himself sick/' says Dr. Kellog, he must be sick 
indeed/' and truly, in accordance with this saying, 
the Native was dangerously ill. A bone-thrower, 
who had in the presence and hearing of the sick man 
divined his malady, pronounced that he was not only 
bewitched by a snake, but also that the reptile was 
within him and was eating him to death. In these 
circumstances the missionary administered an emetic 
to the reluctant patient, in the presence of some 
incredulous spectators, who had never known a white 
man to extract a reptile from the person of a bewitched 
Native. Further, by some agility of the hand, the 
missionary produced from his pocket unobserved, 
just as the emetic was acting, the baby lizard he had 
taken from the rocks. So smartly was this done 
that everybody, including the patient, believed the 
reptile to have been extracted from his body by the 
power of the medicine administered by the missionary. 
The sick man at once stood up and walked, and the 
missionary was known, by all who witnessed the 
marvel, as the greatest witch-doctor of the neigh- 
bourhood. 

In like manner, when some civilized Christians made 
remarks on New Year's Day about the figure 13, 
there was much gossiping among the more super- 
stitious Natives as to the form of trouble which the 
year 1913 had in store for the Natives, although 
none knew that a revolutionary law of Draconian 
severity would be launched in their midst during this 
eventful year. 

The powerful African potentate, Menelik of Abys- 
sinia (whose death had been falsely circulated no 
fewer than seven times during the past dozen years), 
really died in 1913. 



THE FATEFUL 13 121 

Letsie II, paramount chief of the semi-independent 
Basuto nation, departed this life during this same 
year. 

Dinizulu (son of the great Cetewayo, whose impis 
slew the Prince Imperial in 1879), ^^o was bom to 
inherit the throne of his fathers, and who lived to be one 
of the most disappointed men of his day, spent many 
years in prison and in exile, and was known in his 
lifetime as the Black Napoleon ; was released from 
prison by the Union Government, and given back 
his pension of £500 per annum. Sharing the hopes 
of his people that in accordance with the Government's 
erstwhile good intentions now tottering before a 
growing Republicanism, Zululand would be restored 
to the Zulus, and he established as their ruler under 
the Crown, He, too, died in the year 1913. 

An unusually large number of good and noble men 
of greater or lesser renown were gathered to their 
fathers during this year. 

It is perhaps not generally known that few 
British statesmen did so much for the South African 
Natives, in so short a term of service at the Colonial 
Office, as the Hon. A. Lyttleton. And he, too, 
left us rather suddenly during this troublous year of 
1913. In this year, too. South Africa was visited 
by a drought which for severity was pronounced 
to be unprecedented in the knowledge of all the 
old inhabitants. Remarks — some pithy, some ugly — 
were made upon the drought by Dutchmen. They 
all remembered how the God of their fathers used 
to send them nice soaking rains regularly each 
spring-time, and that it usually continued to nourish 
the plants and other of the country's vegetation 
throughout the summer, and they concluded that 
there must be some reason why He does not do it 
now. The majority of Dutchmen whom the writer 



122 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


thus overheard attributed the visitation to the sins 
of the foreigners, who are fast buying up the country, 
and cursing it by settling godless people upon it. 
One or two saw in it the vengeance of the Supreme 
Being for the unnecessary persecution of His black 
creatures, but they were afraid to say this aloud. 
''See,'' said one, "is the drought not worse in the 
' Free ' State where Kafirs seem to be very hard 
hit by this new law ? " This was true. Dutchmen's 
cattle were dying of poverty in the "Free" State, 
and the land was so parched in some parts that it 
seemed difficult to believe that grass could ever grow 
in these places again, supposing the long-looked-for 
rain came at last. 

On our birthday, October 9, 1913, they hanged 
four murderers who had been condemned to death 
at the preceding criminal sessions. The selection 
of the morning of our birthday for the execution of 
four prisoners at our home W'as curious as execu- 
tions in Kimberley take place only about once or 
twice in ten years. The event, of course, was 
purely accidental ; but middle-aged Natives seemed 
to have an aptitude for remembering catastrophes 
which, in the lives of their fathers and their fathers' 
fathers, followed such coincidences. Whilst the execu- 
tions were taking place, on the morning of our 
birthday, an ugly ocean tragedy was taking place 
away out on the Atlantic. The Vultiirno was ablaze 
with a number of passengers on board. Innocent 
white men and women were being roasted alive, 
because the sea was too rough to permit their transfer 
from the burning ship to the rescuing liners ; and 
so they perished, literally, " between the devil and 
the deep sea " — within full view of rehef. 

Dutchmen as a rule are hke Natives in that they 
five as long as they can, and die only when they must ; 



THE FATEFUL 13 


123 


but in the Transvaal a Dutch fanner all but exter- 
minated his family on this day with a revolver, which 
he had previously secured for the purpose. On this 
day also the mind of an English miner at Randfontein 
having suddenly become unhinged, he shot his wife, 
his baby, and his aunt, then coolly pocketing the 
pistol, he cycled down to the school, called out his 
two children, shot them down in cold blood, and 
retired to a quiet place where he put an end to his 
own Ufe. During that fateful week in which 
disaster followed disaster in rapid succession, there 
occurred the following, namely, the colliery disaster 
at Cardiff, which left a thousand dependents without 
breadwinners, to say nothing of the damage to 
property, which is estimated at over £ 100 , 000 . There 
were also railway accidents and aviation disasters, 
causing damage to life and property. There were 
commercial troubles due to the Johannesburg strike 
in July, and this effect of the strike indicates the 
influence exercised by the '' golden city'' over South 
African commerce. In that sad upheaval in the 
labour world many innocent people lost their lives 
and property, and unfortunately, as is always the 
case, besides adding largely to the taxpayers' burdens, 
seriously affected people who had nothing to do 
with the strike. Yet when some of our friends ex- 
pressed thankfulness that the year did not have 
thirteen months, we were obstinate enough to refuse 
to waste valuable time in considering the subject. 
Individuals, Hke communities, suffered heavily 
from one cause or another in the year 1913. Thus 
the writer's little family also had its baptism of sorrow. 
On New Year's Day of that year 1913, his little boy, 
a robust child of three months, was prattling in the 
house. He first saw the light in the last quarter of 
1912, on the very day we opened and christened our 



124 ^ NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


printing office, so we named him after the great in- 
ventor of printing type : he was christened Johann 
Gutenberg. Somehow or other he could never keep 
well after the New Year, for though he tried to look 
pleasant, it was visibly under serious difficulties. It 
had been our fortune, during a married life of fifteen 
years, to keep our children in remarkably good health ; 
but the health of this little fellow showed unmistakable 
evidence that this immunity was reaching its end* 
Vehement attacks of whooping cough now overtook 
the little ones. The others got rid of it during the 
winter months, but with Gutenberg the disease de- 
veloped into inflammation of this organ, and of that ; 
and taking the whole year from January to 
December, it would not be too much to say that the 
little boy scarcely enjoyed three full months of good 
health. And by the end of the year it was clear 
that he was going the way of half a dozen cousins 
who were gathered into eternity all during one month 
— December, 1913. Before the New Year was a 
week old, the doctor, who had then become a regular 
member of the family, gave us the final warning. 

For a month past loving aunts had tenderly re- 
lieved the child's inexperienced parents of the daily 
ministrations and of the more exacting night watches. 
After the doctor's warning there came " the calm 
before the storm." It only lasted for one day; the 
deceptive strength which had temporarily buoyed 
the little patient up was now passing away and the 
inevitable reaction was setting in. Oh, if he were 
only a year older so that he could have communicated 
to us by speech his feelings and his wants ! His 
httle body, which stood the long sickness with such 
fortitude, got frail. His bright eyes, high forehead 
and round cheeks remained, however, to defy the 
waste of the disease. The parson came and uttered 



THE FATEFUL 13 


125 


words of encouragement. " Symptoms of death/' 
he said, pointing to the sick-bed (and he was no novice 
in such matters) " were very far from there," but the 
surroundings of the sick-bed seemed to us to ring 
out the command with a force as strong as six peals 
of thunder, saying " Suffer little children to come 
unto Me," and such Divine orders, comprehensible 
only to those to whom they are issued, took precedence 
of any words of encouragement that may be uttered 
by a mortal minister of religion. That these good 
men of God know the ways of their Master is patent 
in that they always couple the encouragement to the 
sick, or to the friends of the sick, with the advice to 
surrender to the Divine injunction. The grand- 
mother of the child was composed. " When the 
Lord's will is to be done," she said, " no mortal can 
stay it," but his aunts were restless. Go, call the 
doctor at once," they demanded. He came, gave a 
solemn look and stood silent. After feeling the pulse 
he said : " The child has collapsed. I have done all 
I could and can do no more." Next came the anxious 
looks of the other attendants, the footfalls of inquiring 
neighbours, messages to nearer and further relatives 
about the pronounced " collapse." 

This was at noon, and each one expected that he 
could hold out for two hours at the most ; but he 
breathed throughout the afternoon with a gallantry 
that was wonderful in its way. His large round eyes 
turned upward as though they had become blind 
to their immediate surroundings. It seemed that 
those eyes could no longer see the objects in the room 
and its anxious inmates ; truly they could no longer 
see the sun or the moon and stars that night. Kim- 
berley was no longer a home to the little chap whose 
short lease of life was clearly drawing to an end. A 
new outlook seemed to have dawned over his now 



126 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


brightening face. His eyes were riveted on the New 
Jerusalem, the City of God, and he seemed to be in 
full communion with the dear little cousins who pre- 
ceded him thither during the previous month. Evi- 
dently they were beckoning him to leave this wicked 
South Africa and everything in it, and come to eternal 
glory. In this condition we left him early in the 
afternoon to answer the call of our daily and nightly 
drudgery — it would be gross extravagance to call it 

duty " — an occupation which has no reverence 
for mournful occasions. At 9.15 p.m., just about the 
time of his birth sixteen months before, the little 
soul was relieved of its earthly bonds. 

There he lay robed in a simple white gown, his 
motionless form being an eloquent testimony of the 
indelible gap left in our domestic circle as a visitation 
of 1913. But the celestial expression of his face, his 
deep-brown colour, and his closed eyelids, seemed to 
say to us : " Be at ease, I have conquered.'' 

Still, it must be confessed that to us this wrench 
was a most painful experience, and that the doctrine 
of '' Thy will be done " was found to be a great deal 
more than a mere profession of faith. The sympathies 
of relatives, friends and other mourners, their deeds 
and words of condolence, followed by a solemn religious 
service, took the sting out of the affliction, although 
it must again be confessed that so deep was our sorrow 
for the dead child's mother that for some time we 
could not bear to look her in the face. 

Painful and unusual solemnities and formulae 
were gone through during the next day, and these 
again were lightened by the kind and S3nnpathetic 
assistance of genuine friends, hke Messrs. Joseph 
Twayi, H. S. Poho, and others, some of them dele- 
gates to a Temperance Conference then sitting in 
Kimberley, 



THE FATEFUL 13 


127 


In the absence of the pastors of St. Paul's Mission, 
who were both attending the annual synod at Pniel, 
two Wesleyan ministers — Rev. Jonathan Motshumi 
of Kimberley, and Rev. Shadrach Ramailane of Faure- 
smith — took charge of the funeral service, and a row 
of carriages followed the hearse to the West End 
Cemetery. 

As the procession turned round Cooper's comer 
into Green Street, Kimberley, something caused us 
to look out of the carriage window ; we then caught 
sight of one of the carriages that formed the procession 
in which some little girl friends and relatives of the 
deceased were driving, their plain white dresses re- 
lieved only by a scrap of black ribbon here and there. 
Their silent sympathy, expressed with girlish shyness, 
was evident, though their snow-white dresses were in 
striking contrast to the colour of their carriage and 
of the horses, and the sombre black of the rest of the 
funeral party. As we saw the solemn procession and 
heard the clank of the horses' hoofs, we were suddenly 
reminded of that journey in July, 1913, when we met 
that poor wandering young family of fugitives from 
the Natives' Land Act. A sharp pang went through 
us, and caused our heart to bleed as we recalled the 
scene of their night funeral, forced on them by the 
necessity of having to steal a grave on the moonless 
night, when detection would be less easy. Every man 
in this country, we thought, be he a Russian, Jew, Peru- 
vian, or of any other nationality, has a claim to at least 
six feet of South African soil as a resting place after 
death, but those native outcasts, who in the country 
of their birth, as a penalty for the colour of their skin, 
are made by the Union Parliament to lead lives like 
that awarded to Cain for his crime of fratricide, they 
might, as in the case of that wandering family, be 
even denied a sepulchre for their little ones. 



128 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


The solemnity of the funeral procession, of which 
we formed the mainmast, almost entirely disappeared 
from our mind, to be succeeded by the spirit of revolt 
against this impious persecution as these things came 
before us. What have our people done to these 
colonists, we asked, that is so utterly unforgivable, 
that this law should be passed as an unavoidable 
reprisal ? Have we not delved in their mines, and 
are not a quarter of a million of us still labouring for 
them in the depths of the earth in such circumstances 
for the most niggardly pittance ? Are not thousands 
of us still offering up our lives and our limbs in order 
that South Africa should satisfy the white man's 
greed, delivering £50,000,000 worth of minerals every 
year ? Have we not quarried the stones, mixed, moulded 
and carried the mortar which built the cities of South 
Africa ? Have we not likewise prepared the material 
for building the railways ? Have we not obsequiously 
and regularly paid taxation every year, and have 
we not supplied the Treasury with money to provide 
free education for Dutch children in the Free •' 
State and Transvaal, while we had to find additional 
money to pay the school fees of our own children ? 
Are not many of us toiling in the grain fields and fruit 
farms, with their wives and their children, for the 
white man's benefit ? Did not our people take care of the 
white women — all the white women, including Boer 
fraus — whose husbands, brothers and fathers were 
away at the front — in many cases actively engaged 
in shattering our own liberty ? But see their appre- 
ciation and gratitude ! Oh, for something to — 

strike flat the thick rotundity o' the world ! 

Crack Nature's moulds, all germins spill at once ! 

That make ungrateful man ! 

When one is distressed in mind there is no greater 
comforter than an appropriate Scriptural quotation. 



THE FATEFUL 13 


129 


Our bleeding heart was nowhere in the present pro- 
cession, which apparently could take care of itself, 
for we had returned in thought to the July funeral 
of the veld and its horrid characteristics ; and a 
pleasant reaction set in when we recalled a verse of 
Matthew which says : '' The foxes have holes, and 

the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man 
hath not where to lay His head/' How very Christ- 
like was that funeral of the veld. It resembled the 
Messiah's in that it had no carriages, no horses, no 
ordained ministers, nor a trained choir singing the 
remains into their final resting place. The veld 
funeral party, like the funeral party of the Son of 
Man, was in mortal fear of the representatives of the 
law ; it, like that party, had notdhe light of the sun, 
nor the light of a candle, which charitable friends 
in our day would usually provide for the poorest of 
the poor under ordinary circumstances. Still, it was 
not cold at Golgotha, or should not be to-day as it 
was on the first Good Friday ; but even the Madonna 
and the disciples must have had some house in which 
to gather to discuss the situation. 

One of the most astounding things in connexion 
with the unjust treatment of the Natives by the 
Whites of South Africa is the profound silence of the 
Dutch Reformed Church, which practically is now 
the State Church of South Africa. This Christian 
body does not only exclude coloured worshippers 
from participating in its services, but would arraign 
them before the law, or otherwise violently assault 
them should they visit its places of worship at other 
times. 

When it is remembered that the predikants of the 
Dutch Reformed Church in the old Republics dare 
not pronounce the benediction on a coloured congre- 
gation, we think it will not be considered unfair to 



130 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


say that the calculatingly outrageous treatment of 
the coloured races of South Africa by the Boer section 
of that community is mainly due from the sanction 
it receives from the^Dutch Reformed Church. If the 
predikants of the Dutch Reformed Church would 
but tell their congregations that it was gross libel 
on the Christian faith, which they profess, to treat human 
beings as they treat those with loathsome disease 
— except when it is desired to exploit the benefits, 
such as their taxes and their labour which these out- 
raged human beings confer upon the Dutch : we say 
that if the predikants would but instruct their con- 
gregations so, then this stain, which so greatly dis- 
figures the Christian character of the Boers would 
be removed. 

The Dutch almost worship their religious teachers ; 
and they will continue these cruelties upon the Natives 
as long as they believe that they have the approval 
of the Church. Let the predikants then tell their 
people that tyranny is tyrannical even though the 
victims are of a different race, and the South African 
Dutch will speedily abandon that course. 

Just two instances by way of illustration. Ten 
years ago we attended an election meeting at Burghers- 
dorp, a typical Dutch constituency at the Cape. The 
present Minister of Railways and Harbours was wooing 
the constituency, and he appeared to be the favourite 
candidate among three others. Dutchmen from the 
surrounding farms flocked to attend the meeting. 
The speeches were all in the Taal. No hall in the 
town was large enough to hold the number that came, 
so the four candidates addressed the gathering in the 
Market Square. This was how Mr. Burton asked the 
Dutch electors for their votes : Whenever you 

speak of making South Africa comfortable to Afri- 
kanders, do not forget that the blacks axe the original 



THE FATEFUL 13 . 


131 

Afrikanders. We found them in this country, and no 
policy can possibly succeed which aims at the pro- 
motion of the interests of one section of the Afrikander 
race to the neglect of another section." 

There were a few native listeners in the throng, and 
we blacks at once thought that the speaker had 
held out the red-rag to the bull, and that every word 
of this candid statement would cost him at least 
fifty Dutch votes. But we were agreeably surprised, 
for the open air rang with the loud cheers and 
" Hoor, hoors " ^ from hundreds of leather-lunged 
Boers. One old farmer turned round to Tommy — 
the blackest Native in the crowd — held him by the 
shoulders, and shouted as brusquely as his tongue 
could bend to the vernacular : " Utloa, utloa, 

utloa ! " 

Mr. Burton was returned at the head of the poll. 

A more recent instance : In 1913, the South African 
Asiatic laws operated so harshly against British Indians 
that Westminster and Bombay demanded instant 
reform. In deference to this outside intervention, 
the Union Government appointed the Solomon Com- 
mission to inquire into the matter. While the 
investigations were in progress, emphatic protests 
were constantly uttered against this " outside inter- 
ference." Some of the South Africans went as far 
as to assert that " if Imperialism meant a ' coolie ' ® 
domination in South Africa, then it was about time 
that South Africa severed her Imperial bonds." The 
clamourers who designated the inquiry as a concession 
to outsiders seemed almost to dictate to the Commis- 
sion not to recommend anything that " savours of 
a surrender to the coolies."^ 

^ " Hear, hear," in Dutch. 

* "Heeir, hear," in Sesuto. 

^ A contemptuous South African term for British Indian** 



132 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

But when General Smuts, in terms of the Commis- 
sion's report and as a concession to Anglo-Indian 
feeling, tabled a Bill in 1914, to amend the hardships 
before they had been a year in operation, the clamour 
at once died down ; and we have not heard that 
any one in South Africa was a penny the poorer as 
a result of this '' outside interference," and its con- 
sequent " surrender to the coolies." 

Dutchmen only follow their leaders. Hence, let 
the leaders direct them into cruel ways as they are 
seemingly doing at the present time, then if Mr. Bur- 
ton's assertions be right (and we think no one will 
deny that he is right when he says the one-sided policy 
can never succeed), these leaders, instead of producing 
a South Africa which is rich and contented, will only 
succeed in producing a South Africa which is poor 
and discontented. Those, too, who wish well for 
South Africa and are at the same time sympathizers 
of the present Government, let them also strive to 
induce the Ministry to cease its policy of dilly-dallying 
and of equivocation at the expense of the coloured 
tax-payers. So that the Dutch throughout South 
Africa, as did the Dutch of Cape Colony, under the 
able leadership of Jan Hendrik Hofmeyr, may pursue 
a fresh course — the course of political righteousness. 
When the Labour Party discover that white votes 
alone will not give it the reins of Government, its 
leaders will most probably advocate a native fran- 
chise in the Northern Colonies similar to the native 
franchise of the Cape. And we can assure them that 
the first man who would successfully tackle such a 
problem will not only secure for his party the votes 
thus created, but that sheer gratitude will in future 
place at his disposal the coloured vote of the Cape 
as well. 

It is also our belief, in regard to the Dutch, that if a 



THE FATEFUL 13 


133 


trusted leader from among them were to propose a 
native franchise for the Northern Provinces, the 
proposal would ultimately be accepted. 

The predikants of the Dutch Reformed Church, 
who largely influence the leadership of the South 
African Dutch, ought to know that the English colonist 
can be just as devilish as the Boers on questions of 
colour ; and that some of them, with their superior 
means and education have almost out-Boered the 
Boer in this matter ; but that even they have been 
held in check by the restraint imposed upon them 
by the English Churches in the country. Thus, 
knowing the Dutchman's obedience to the commands 
of his pastor, we are afraid that if ever there come a 
day of reckoning for the multifarious accumulation 
of wrongs done to the Natives, the Dutch Reformed 
Church, owing to its silent consent to all these wrongs, 
will have a lot to answer for. 



CHAPTER X 

DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 

(Native of the Cape, and M.B.C. of Edinburgh) . 

President of the African Political Organization on the 
South African Colour Trouble 

T he following presidential address was delivered 
by Dr. Abdurahman at Kimberley on Septem- 
ber 29, 1913, at the opening of the tenth annual 
Conference of the A.P.O. His Worship Councillor 
E. Oppenheimer, Mayor of Kimberley, presided : — 

Nearly two years have elapsed since we last met in Conference — two 
years crowded with events that have an important bearing on the future 
of South Africa, and especially on the Coloured races. Thanks, however, 
to the A.P.O. newspaper, every intelligent Coloured man is acquainted 
with those events, and there is no need for me to dwell in detail on any one 
of them. Nevertheless, a cursory enumeration will be desirable in order 
to answer certain questions I propose to submit to you : it will be further 
necessary to make a retrospect of the conditions that prevailed at the 
time when White South Africa, amid exuberant exultations, and a chorus 
of hosannahs, wildly welcomed the Act of Union as a beacon light, that 
would blaze down through ages of history, indicating the commencement 
of peace and prosperity for the land, and the birth of a new nation — the 
foundation of a new nationalism. 

Ushered in by its authors with the blare of trumpets, and with an 
incense of self-adulation for their vaunted achievement, it surely cannot 
have belied their sanguine hopes, and proved to have been nothing more 
than a dream of Alnaschar. Whether Europeans are wholly satisfied 
with the results of Union is their business ; but I think we are warranted 
in looking for some indication of the fruits of that Act from our point of 
view. But, before doing so, let us take a cursory glance at the condition 
of the Coloured races in pre- Union days, and then, after a rapid review 
of the legislation since that memorable date, we will ask ourselves : How 
have those events impressed the minds of the Coloured races, and what 
is our duty to ourselves and to our country ? 

134 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 


135 


Such are the questions that I propose to put myself to-night, and I 
shall endeavour to answer them in the most candid and straightforward 
manner possible. Justice and equity are our demands — are inherent 
rights of every man, especially a free-born British subject, even in South 
Africa. Heedless, therefore, as to whether some of our views please or 
displease the privileged section of this country's population, we are in 
duty bound to speak out our honest convictions boldly and fearlessly. 
I shall endeavour to state my opinions, therefore, without any heat, but 
with a cold, passionless calmness that is possible only to those who, despite 
bitter experiences, base their remarks on stern facts and undeniable 
realities. 

Of late, it has become the fashion in the Press of the Union to dub any 
one who has to utter unpleasant truths an emotionalist. That is, of 
course, not argument. The silent suffering of years that must have been 
undergone by tlie Coloured man in South Africa is not likely to have 
left much of the emotional side of humanity in his composition. How- 
ever, unpalatable as the facts may be that I have to present for your 
consideration to-night, I trust that my critics will be honest enough on 
this occasion to face them boldly. They may question their accuracy, 
if they will, or dispute the validity of my deductions from these facts. 
That is the honest course for them to adopt. Furthermore, I trust that 
White South Africa, especially those who boast loudest of British traditions, 
will remember that it is an inalienable right of a British subject, no matter 
in what part of the Empire he may be, to address his fellow-subjects on 
the momentous question of Government. " If," declared an English 
lawyer, " no man could have awakened the public mind to the errors 
and the abuses in our English Government, how could it have passed 
on from stage to stage, through reformation and revolution, so as to have 
arrived from barbarism to such a pitch of happiness and perfection?" 
Such an inquiry as I now propose will not be without its lessons. If 
South Africa is worthily fulfilling her mission ; if she has been faithful 
to her trust ; if she is promoting the cause of civilization, and if her actions 
are based upon humanitarianism, then she may strenuously and con- 
scientiously proceed on the course she has been following. But if it can 
be showm that there is no ethical basis to her policy of dealing with Coloured 
races, that humanitarianism as a dominating factor is invariably wanting, 
and that underlying her present policy is the principle of class aggrandize- 
ment, then we may urge her to halt ere it is too late, and pursue another 
course. 


Cape Colony 

Now although there never was a time when the white and the black 
races stood on a footing of practical equality — civilly and politically — 
it is a fact that, under the old Cape constitution, theoretical equality was 
ensured to all, irrespective of race or creed. The Coloured races were, 
in this Colony, treated with much consideration, if not with absolute 
equality. The advancement made by them under that regime was 
always held up to the world's admiration. It was regarded as convincing 
proof that a policy based upon justice was the right one to be followed 
in governing subject races. The peaceful habits of the Coloured races 
since the granting of the old Cape Constitution is a complete vindication 
of the broad liberalism entertained by English statesmen sixty years 
ago. "It is the earnest desire of Her Majesty's Government that all 
her subjects at the Cape, without distinction of class or colour, should 
be united by one bond of loyalty, and we believe that the exercise of 
political rights enjoyed by all alike will prove one of the best methods of 



136 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


attaining this object." Thus reads the dispatch of the Duke of New- 
castle to Governor Cathcart, when transmitting " to the Colony of the Cape 
of Good Hope Ordinances which confer one of the most liberal constitu- 
tions enjoyed by any of the British possessions." 

But even in the Cape, prior to Union, signs were not wanting that some 
slight reactions had set in. By degrees the doctrine of equal rights, which 
formed the basis of the Cape Constitution, despite its resuscitation by 
the famous declaration of the great Rhodes, was losing its force. How- 
ever, in the face of minor infractions of the principle of equal rights, and 
some invasions of the necessary corollary to that principle, the right to 
equal opportunity — in the industrial as well as in the political world — 
we were not wholly dissatisfied with the White man's rule in the Cape. 

The Northern Colonies 

Now let us consider the position in the Northern Colonies, especially 
in the misnamed Free State. There a very different picture is presented. 
From the days that the voortrekkers endeavoured to escape English rule, 
from the day that they sought the hospitality of Chief Moroka, the history 
of the treatment of the blacks north of the Orange River is one long and 
uninterrupted record of rapine and greed, without a solitary virtue to 
redeem the horrors which were committed in the name of civilization. 
Such is the opinion any impartial student must arrive at from a study 
even of the meagre records available. If all were told, it would indeed 
be a blood-curdling tale, and it is probably well that the world was not 
acquainted with all that happened. However, the treatment of the 
Coloured races, even in the Northern Colonies, is just what one might 
expect from their history. The restraints of civilization were flung aside, 
and the essentials of Christian precepts ignored. The northward march 
of the voortrekkers was a gigantic plundering raid. They swept like a 
desolating pestilence through the land, blasting everything in their path, 
and pitilessly laughing at the ravages from which the native races have 
not yet recovered. Their governments were founded on the principle 
that is subversive of all Christian ethics, that the Coloured man was 
entitled to no recognition either in Church or State. Cruelty and oppres- 
sion amounting to serfdom were, and still are, the outstanding features of 
the Free State. And he would be a bold man who would assert that 
the native races have progressed at all as a result of contact with the white 
man in the Free State. Progress could not be looked for under such 
circumstances, for nowhere are there any signs that the Free State was 
ever inspired by altruistic motives. 

Such was the condition of things at the time of Union. Injustice, repres- 
sion, and inhumanity characterized the treatment of the Coloured races 
in the north : justice, benevolence, and equality of opportunity in the 
south. Now, it is said that " where slavery is prohibited, there civil^ 
liberty must existf; where civil liberty is denied, there slavery follows." 
These maxims, every student of history will admit, have been abundantly 
verified in the history of South Africa. Take, for instance, a comparison 
of the condition of the Coloured people of this town and that of Bloem- 
fontein, the capital of the Orange Free State. Your member of Parlia- 
ment has stated that in Kimberley our people are a credit to the district, 
and the most advanced and progressive Coloured people in South Afirica. 
This is no doubt due to the excellent educational facilities with which 
you have been provided for some considerable time, to the liberty and 
freedom you enjoy, and to the kindly treatment you have received at 
the hands of the Europeans. In Bloemfontein, on the other hand, there 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 


137 


are practically no educational facilities for children, who, as soon as they 
reach the age of fifteen, must enter the service of a white man, or be cast 
into prison. There is no freedom, no liberty, and the result is that the 
Coloured people of the capital of that British Slave State are uneducated, 
poor, and degraded. 

Here, then, one can easily see the results produced by the two different 
systems of governing Coloured races — the benevolent and the despotic. 
In the north the denial of civil rights produced a state of virtual slavery, 
and the recent denial of the complete enfranchisement of the Coloured 
people in the Union has similarly resulted in the passing of an Act — 
the Natives' Land Act, which means nothing less than the partial enslave- 
ment of the races throughout the Union. With two such divergent 
policies in force in South Africa, it is not surprising that the Coloured 
races viewed with the gravest apprehension the Union of the Colonies 
upon a basis which would give the Northern Colonies sufficient power and 
influence to shape the legislation of the Union. And I have no hesitation 
in declaring that when Union was accomplished, and the Coloured people 
were partially disfranchised, the death-knell of political equality for the 
Coloured races was soimdcd, and the triumph of the north over the south 
was heralded. 

Sincere regrets were expressed by our friends at the abridgement of our 
rights and the curtailment of our privileges that were effected bj^ the 
South Africa Act. Fervent hopes were entertained by Cape politicians 
that not only would we not suffer any injustice, but the position of the 
Coloured races in the north would be improved, and their rights eventually 
be admitted. They fondly believed that the leavening influence of the 
Cape ideas would mitigate the barbarity of those of the northerner. We 
had no reason to doubt the sincerity of our friends' beliefs, but we had no 
faith in the northerners — men whose public professions and practice were 
void of a vestige of justice or honour in their dealings with the Coloured 
races. 

In November, 1904, when the question of Union was under discussion, 
I expressed myself thus : " In a central Parliament there would be the 

danger of the policies of the north slowly creeping into our Colony, and 
undermining our Constitution. The men of the north have already told 
us what they would do if they got into power ; and European friends, 
numerous and influential as they might be, would not be able to safeguard 
the interests of the Coloured people." How far that prediction has been 
verified is well known to every Coloured man. 

The position of the Coloured man at the time of the Union was such as 
I have described. 


Since Union 

Scarcely had the blessing of the Almighty been invoked on the pro- 
ceedings of the Union Parliament at the opening of its first session when, 
to its eternal shame and infamy, it placed upon its statute book a law 
that would debar Christ Himself from membership of the Dutch Reformed 
Church. A Parliament capable of such blasphemy is capable of any 
iniquity. 

Then followed the Marriage Bill and the Squatters' Bill, both abortive 
measures, but, nevertheless, showing clearly the attitude of mind of the 
white rulers towards the Coloured races. In order to find employment 
for poor whites, Coloured railway employees who had served the coimtry 
faithfully and well were dismissed. A white South Africa has been declared 
in the Union Parliament and from every platform. The white race 
must preserve its dominance. To this end a rigorous policy of repression 



138 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


was adopted ; and the enthusiastic hopes of an extension of franchise 
rights to our northern fellow-men, that was entertained by Cape politicians 
and the Imperial Parliament, is now as far distant as the Greek Kalends. 
I shall not recount the long catalogue of other persecutions and injustices. 
We have all felt some of them in one phase of life or other. 

So serious had matters become in 1911 that in my warning to the 
Coloured races against the dangers that such a policy must entail, I was 
bold enough to declare at our Johannesburg Conference that when Euro- 
peans were ready they would enter upon a war of extermination. I was 
severely taken to task for imputing such inhuman motives to Europeans. 
I was denounced in even worse language than has been used towards 
the labour leaders in the recent strike. No vituperative epithet was 
strong enough to fling at my head. My statement met with almost uni- 
versal condemnation at the hands of the editors of the white Press ; but 
it was condemned not on account of any falsity in it, but simply because 
it was unwise and inexpedient to make such remarks. Barely eighteen 
months have elapsed from the time when I made that prediction ere we 
find the Union Parliament pass the Natives' Land Act, which creates 
conditions, if not amounting to extermination, yet designed to enslave 
the Natives of this country. That tyrannical mandate is scattering 
multitudes of Natives from their homes. Mother earth is to them now 
only a step-dame. They may enter either into perpetual bondage on 
the farm, or spend " a sunless life in the unwholesome mine." 

To-day there is also a revival of persecution in the Free State. The old 
laws of the dark days are being enforced with relentless rigour. The 
sanctity of homes is violated. W'ives are compelled to carry passes. 
Mothers driven to abandon their offspring of tender years and seek employ- 
ment. Daughters are wrenched from parental care and control, and 
forced into the service of some white scoundrel. Husbands are not 
allowed to work at their trades for themselves without paying 5s. per month 
for the privilege. Such is the condition of things in the slave State. And 
all this is done behind the power of the British flag which floats over that 
Province, and yet these acts were impossible while the Free State lacked the 
power to face British public opinion. Moreover, in the Cape Colony the 
Free State laws are gradually being introduced. The Curfew Laws are 
enforced. A distinct colour line is being drawn in every phase of life, 
more distinctly since General Smuts declared that colour and colour only 
is to be the dividing line. 

Such a long list of tyrannical acts of persecutions as I could make out 
— persecutions of the Coloured people as a class as well as individually 
— can point to but one conclusion, and that is that the whites are deter- 
mined at all hazards to repress all aspirations of the Coloured people for 
a higher life, to deny all opportunities of betterment, to keep them politi- 
cally, civilly and industrially as slaves, and even to force those who have 
risen back into a state worse than slavery. South Africa is fast becoming 

A land of tyrants, and a den of slaves. 

Where wretches seek dishonourable graves. 

Duty of Europeans 

What is the duty of Europeans towards the Coloured races of the coun- 
try ? Take the oft-repeated assertions of Europeans themselves. Their 
leaders are fond of talking of their responsibilities to us. They have 
everlastingly had, or used to have until quite recently, on their lips these 
nice- sounding phrases about " ofir duties and our responsibilities to our 
Coloured brothers." But are such phrases not hollow and meaningless ? 
If Europeans have duties towards the Coloured people, what else is implied 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 139 


than the need for humane dealings, and endeavours to ameliorate their 
lot, and uplift them in the scale of civilization. If that is what their duties 
mean, let us ask how far they have fulfilled them. 

Instead of kindly, humane treatment, we find barbarous cruelty and 
inhumanity. Instead of ameliorating our lot they endeavour to accentuate 
its bitterness. Instead of aiming at our upliftment they seek to degrade 
us. Instead of lending a helping hand to those struggling to improve 
themselves they thrust them back remorselessly and rigorously. Instead 
of making it possible for them to enjoy the blessings of an enlightened 
Christianity and a noble civilization, they refuse them the right to live, 
unless they are content to slave for farmers or descend into the bowels 
of the earth to delve the gold which enslaves the world, and before whose 
charms all freedom flies. In short, the object of the white man's rule 
to-day is not to develop the faculties of the Coloured races so that they 
may live a full life, but to keep them for ever in a servile position. The 
spirit that underlies this view of governing Coloured races spread into 
this Colony with the Union, and is now universal throughout South Africa. 

The Coloured people resent this, and one cannot be astonished at the 
feeling of violent hostility that has sprung up. It is a natural result. 
And, in the words of Carlyle, it may be said that " to whatever other 
griefs the Coloured people labour under, this bitterest grief — injustice — 
super-adds itself : the unendurable conviction that they are unfairly 
dealt with, that their lot in this world is not founded on right, nor even 
on necessity and might, is neither what it should be, nor what it shall 
be." The Coloured peoples are sentient beings. Their souls smart under 
the stigma of injustice. They are nursing a sullen revengeful humour 
of revolt against the white rule. They have lost respect for the white 
man, and are refusing to give their best to the country. 

The duty of Europeans is plain. Show the Coloured people that the 
Government is for the good of all, not for the privileged class. Prove 
that the first aim is not to keep us as hewers of wood and drawers of water 
to men who have the power. Engage the Coloured races by their affection. 
Grant them equal opportunities. If you do so, then the happy harmoni- 
zation of the whole community will be achieved, and you may be sure 
of receiving the grateful return of the affection and respect of the Coloured 
races. 

The treatment we might reasonably expect from the dominant race 
is just what they themselves would expect were they in our position. 
We have as much right to the land of South Africa as they. We have 
as much right as they to be governed on the same basis of humanity. 
In the language of one of England's greatest statesmen, Europeans them- 
selves would have been shut out from all the blessings they enjoy, of 
peace, of happiness, and of liberty if there had been any truth in these 
principles which some gentlemen have not hesitated to lay down as applic- 
able to the case of Africa. "Had those principles been true, we our- 
selves," said William Pitt, " had languished to this hour in that miserable 
state of ignorance, brutality, and degradation, in which history proves 
our ancestors to have been immersed. Had other nations adopted those 
principles in their conduct towards us ; had other nations applied to 
Great Britain the reasoning which some of the Senators of this very Island 
now apply to Africa, ages might have passed without our emerging from 
barbarism ; and we, who are enjoying the blessings of British civilization, 
of British laws, and British liberty, might at this hour have been little 
superior either in morals, in knowledge, or refinement, to the rude inhabd- 
tants of the coast of Guinea." 

Such were the words of Pitt in a speech he delivered in 1792 in the 



140 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


course of a debate on the Slave Trade. His opinions 'were vastly different 
from those of our South African Premier, who only refrains from using the 
sjambok, so he has told us, on no other ground than that it might also 
hurt himself, and who is determined to allow no native representative 
in the Union Parliament as long as the Almighty spares him to be over- 
lord. He does not look forward as Pitt did to the day when " We (British) 
might behold the beams of science and philosophy breaking in upon 
Africa, which, at some happy period, may blaze with full lustre." But 
this policy of repression cannot last much longer. If a handful of Indians 
in a matter of conscience can so firmly resist what they consider injustice, 
what could the Coloured races not do if they were to adopt this practice 
of passive resistance ? We must all admire what these British Indians 
have shown, and are showing, in their determination to maintain what 
they deem to be their rights. The inhumanity of the Free State has 
driven our women to resist the law. Numbers of them went to jail 
rather than carry passes. The Coloured races applaud the noble actions 
of those brave daughters of Africa. I am convinced that if our people 
as a whole were prepared to suffer likewise we could gain redress of our 
most serious grievances while General Botha is still alive. Are we to 
be driven to that course ? Europeans should ask themselves that ques- 
tion, and ask it promptly. For example, if the 200,000 Natives on the 
mines were, in the language of the white Labour Party, to " down " tools, 
and prefer to bask in the sun than to go down the mines ; if the farm 
labourer at harvesting time refused to work for one shilling and sixpence 
a day, the economic foundation of South Africa would suddenly shake 
and tremble with such violence that the beautiful white South Africa 
superstructure which has been built on it would come down with a crash, 
entailing financial ruin such as the world has never witnessed before. If 
Europeans wish to prevent such a calamity in this country, they must 
pursue the right course and encourage the Coloured people of South Africa 
to improve their position and become more useful citizens than they 
have ever been. They will themselves participate in the blessings that 
spring from our improvement and prosperity, and they will receive " ample 
recompense for their tardy kindness (if kindness it can be called) in no 
longer hindering " our progress. 

We also should urge Europeans to go back to the path of justice, to 
retrace their steps along the route they appear to have been travelling 
of late. They can influence the Legislature. Whatever Parliament 
does is done in the name of the white people, and whites should, if they 
wish to see South Africa a happy, prosperous and peaceful country, checK 
the Parliament in its mad career. It is worse than insensate folly to 
pursue that path any further. Many people have revolted at less oppres- 
sion than we have had to suffer. At present we have no other course 
than to endure in silence the persecution of our tyrants, and conform to 
the servitude imposed on us. We may well exclaim that this is a country 
where 

The wanton whites new penal statutes draw 

Whites grind the blacks, and white men rule the law. 

Nevertheless, it is not too late to mend. The estrangement between 
the two races is not irreconcilable. Europeans could, with advantage tc 
the country, if they would only be men, show the Coloured people that 
the white man's rule is for the good of all, not for the privileged class 
only. If they grant the Coloured races equal opportunities, and do not 
penalize them on account of race or colour, they may see a happy realiza- 
tion of the dreams of the wisest statesmen that all classes should be 
contented, and should work together for the good of all. 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 141 

Dr. Abdurahman's address provided material for 
leading articles in the South African papers during 
that and the following week, the criticisms, with very 
few exceptions, being more or less hostile. Not one 
of them, however, accused him of telling untruths ; 
but they vehemently resented the tone of his speech, 
which they characterized as inflammatory. One 
daily paper showed some inconsistency in the matter. 
It upbraided the doctor for his attack upon oppressive 
legislation, and two days later, presumably after 
second thoughts, came out with a leading article 
urging Europeans to check their oppression of the 
blacks, and in their own interests deal justly by the 
native and coloured sections of the population. By 
the Natives it was said that under the present circum- 
stances the speech could have been better for a little 
moderation ; but they nevertheless pronounced it 
the clearest and most accurate representation of their 
condition under the Union Administration that was 
ever uttered on a South African platform. 

It should be remembered that Dr. Abdurahman 
delivered his address at a time when the operation 
of the Land Act was raging like a plague in the Nor- 
thern Provinces, and its victims included an old man 
of II 9 years, respected by his white neighbours, with 
his nonogenarian wife, and his sons aged seventy 
and eighty. 

From the point of view of the Native, it is satis- 
factory to note that such sincere white students of 
the native question as Dr. J. E. Mackenzie of Kim- 
berley, and Rev. Chas. Phillips of Johannesburg, when 
asked to dissociate themselves from Dr. Abdurah- 
man's charges of cruelty, inhumanity," etc., refused 
to do so until it could be pointed out that he had 
spoken untruths ; that, however, could more easily 
be done by a shrug of the shoulders than by adducing 
substantial facts. 



142 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Again, it is doubtful if any South African journalist 
possesses the experience of Mr. Vere Stent, the editor 
of the Pretoria News. Mr. Stent as a Kimberley 
youth spent many years in the de Beers mining com- 
pounds, working with Natives of nearly all African 
tribes. He was war correspondent in Ashanti and 
other parts of Africa, and also with the Republican 
troops under General Joubert in the Northern Trans- 
vaal in the 'eighties, and saw the Boers (whose primitive 
ar^llery could not dislodge a native tribe that was 
impregnably entrenched inside a cave) closing up 
the mouth of the cave and sealing up the masonry, 
then leaving the Natives, men, women and children, 
to smother to death with their belongings inside 
the cave. Further, Mr. Stent accompanied Cecil 
Rhodes to the Mattopo hills, where the late Colossus 
went unarmed to hold with the Matebele chiefs the 
pourparler which brought about the peace of Southern 
Rhodesia. In the siege of Mafeking, Mr. Stent was 
Reuter's war correspondent, and all things considered, 
it must be conceded that he is better qualified to write 
on a subject of this kind than all the critics of 
Dr. Abdurahman. 

Commenting on Dr. Abdurahman's address, in the 
course of a leading article Mr. Stent said : 


Here is no paid agitator, but a professional man and a scholar, who 
is addressing the Coloured workers of South Africa from the lowest Abori- 
gine to the Bantu, from the Bantu to the Coloured tradesman, from the 
Coloured tradesman to the professional man, of whom there are a few 
like himself, a great n^ass of unenfranchised human beings that suffer 
under disabilities and actual and obvious injustice. 

This vast proletariat is slowly cohering. Tribal feuds are being 
forgotten. The anti-colour laws of South Africa, and particularly of the 
north — which makes no difference between the savage Zulu fresh from 
his kraal and the stately Malay, between the Mashaangan and a man 
like Dr. Abdurahman himself — are welding together this vast human 
mass, in the flux of a single grievance, and that grievance, the disability 
put upon colour qua colour by the law. 

What if some day, and sooner than we think, that great mass becomes 
mobile, learns to co-operate, and moves irresistibly together ? 

What, again, which is more likely, if its molecules realize the pow6r 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 


143 


of their inertia, if they simply decide quite constitutionally and without 
violence to do nothing, pending a remedy of their grievances? 

It will, of course, be said that Dr. Abdurahman is a picturesque extremist ; 
that his position is an abnormal one ; that he does not speak for the 
Coloured people and the Natives as a whole. Do not let us be too certain 
on the last point. 

As to the first, there runs through the speech, holding it together 
and making it difficult to attack, a single plain statement in it — a steel 
strong thread of truth. 

He throws quite a new light upon the Voortrekkers when he says : — 

" The northward march of the Voortrekkers was a gigantic (plundering 
raid. They swept like a desolating pestilence through the land, blasting 
everything in their path, and pitilessly laughing at the ravages from which 
the native races have not yet recovered." But from the point of view of 
the native races, the description is a true one. 

To say of the Natives' Land Act, " That tyrannical mandate is scatter- 
ing multitudes of Natives from their homes " is extravagant. Only a 
few so far have been disturbed, but many must be disturbed for the Natives' 
Land Act is tyrannical. In fact, though couched in the flowing language 
of an orator, the speech on the whole is not an unfair summing up of the 
^ievances of the coloured people, and there is a very solemn warning in 
it. The European labour agitators may well envy Dr. Abdurahman : his 
logic, his doctrine and his power of inv^ective. He has so much to com- 
plain of, he asks for so very little. Just equality ot opportunity. He 
does not propose to set up any Trades' Hall government within a govern- 
ment ; he does not talk about or attempt to incite to riot or revolution ; 
he does not speak for a few skilled artisans who are living in comfort, and 
sometimes luxury, upon the sweat of the black man's brow ; he speaks for 
the dark, submerged 5,000,000 South Africans upon whdm light is very 
slowly breaking. 

It should also be recorded that long before Dr. Abdurah- 
man became President of the Coloured Organization, 
white men have been delivering speeches, some of 
them rather indignant, on the treatment of His Majesty's 
coloured and native subjects in South Africa. We 
will refer to just a few for example : 

" I will leave out of account altogether," said His Excellency, " the 
unwise and hard things said by reckless and unthinking white men about 
Natives ; I will only ask white men to consider whether they have ever 
calculated the cumulative effect on the Natives of what I may call the 
policy of pin-pricks ? In some places a Native, however personally clean, 
or however hard he may have striven to civilize himself, is not allowed 
to walk on the pavement of the public streets ; in others he is not allowed 
to go into a public park or to pay for the privilege of watching a game 
of cricket ; in others he is not allowed to ride on the top of a tram-car, 
even in specified seats set apart for him ; in others he is not allowed to 
ride in a railway carriage except in a sort of dog-kennel ; in others he 
Is unfeelingly and ungraciously treated by white officials ; in others he may 
not stir without a pass, and if, for instance, he comes, as thousands of 
Natives do, from the farm on which he resides to work in a labour district 
—(an act which is highly beneficial to the State and commendable in 



144 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA" 


the eyes of all white men) — he does not meet with facilities, but with 
elaborate impediments. In the course of his absence from home he may 
have to take out at least eight different passes, for several of which he 
has the additional pleasure of paying, though he would be much happier 
without them ; and it is possible that, in an extreme case, he may have 
to conform to no fewer than twenty different pass regulations. Now, let 
a white man put himself in the position of a black man, and see how he 
would like it, and let him ask whether such regulations and laws really 
make his task easier ? " — Lord Selborne, before the Congregation of the 
University of the Cape of Good Hope, February 27, 1909. 


The Hon. Dewdney W. Drew, M.A., who was mem- 
ber of the Legislative Council under the Crown Colony 
Government in the Orange River Colony, now mis- 
named the Orange Free '' State, is one of the leading 
South African journalists. In his pamphlet on the 
Native Question, about four years ago, Mr. Drew 
made the following remarks : 

Most Europeans adopt towards the Natives the privilege of the aristo- 
crat — not always with the manners of an aristocrat. Many whites expect 
as a matter of course obeisance and service from all Natives, and think 
it perfectly natiyral to cuff and correct them when they make mistakes. 
Any resentment is apt to draw down severe punishment. In the law 
courts the Natives do not get the same justice as the whites. A Native 
convicted of an offence gets, in the first place, the punishment which a 
white man would get and something extra for the colour of his skin — often 
lashes. The bias of white juries in trying Natives charged with offences 
against whites is such as to have brought the jury system into disrepute, 
and become a chief argument among lawyers for its entire abolition. The 
Natives suffer various restrictions on their liberty ; they may not use 
the side-walks, nor visit a friend's house after a certain hour at night, 
nor move abroad, or even exist anywhere in this " white man's country " 
without a pass. All the police, if not all Europeans, have the right to 
arrest and search them, and the exercise of this right is made sometimes 
a means of shamefully molesting their women. In one Colony the Natives 
are not allowed to own land, and in another they can only do so under 
virtually prohibitive conditions. If the tenant families residing upon a 
farm grow beyond a certain limited number — three or five — the surplus 
are liable to be driven off by the police. As a rule only the worse-paid 
forms of work are permitted to the Natives, and even these are grudged 
them. A legislator rises in one Colony to move that all native messengers 
and other native servants in the Government offices be immediately 
discharged and replaced by poor whites. In another Colony, the papers 
and the public chorus with joy hear that the C.S.A.R. has been able to 
reduce its native staff, and hopes ultimately to get rid of them all. There 
are municipalities in which Natives, if they drive a cab, have to pay a 
higher licence than a white man, and in which they are not permitted 
to make bricks unless they do so for a white employer. In these munici- 
palities they are not allowed to educate their cnildren above the age of 
sixteen, nor may they keep their daughters at home under their own 



DR. A. ABDURAHMAN, M.P.C. 


145 


protection after that age, except the girls find positions in service, in which 
case they may sleep under the roof of their parents if the distance is not 
too great. And, of course, the Natives pay relatively a higher taxation 
than the whites. Articles which they use, but which are little bought 
by the whites, are marked for special customs duties. For instance, the 
white farmers' machinery is duty free, but in several Colonies the native 
hoes pay an a^i valorem tax of 25 per cent. So of shawls ; the Customs 
officer is content to take 12 ^ per cent on the kind used by Europeans, 
but when he comes to the native shawl, the duty is again 25 per cent. 
In addition to these stiff indirect taxes, the Native pays direct taxes 
amounting to one-sixth part of their average annual wage. Not only 
they, but even the most respectable coloured people, are in some places 
not allowed to ride in trams or walk in the parks, or attend public sports, 
or evening concerts, or even follow a deceased white, though he should 
be their own father, to his last resting place in the European cemetery. 
As to the laws, they realize, in all the Colonies but one, Wellington's CTeat 
ideal for the people, by having nothing to do with them except obey them. 
In addition to this treatment, varying from mere pin-pricks to oppression, 
they are mostly referred to in the Press, in public speeches, and private 
conversation, with words of opprobrium and contempt as " niggers " and 
" black brutes." The occasional outbreaks of a few, usually maddened 
with (h-ink which Europeans have sold to them, are put to the discredit 
of the whole race. Those who, when they hear of a case of rape, talk 
about the black peril, forget apparently that it is largely the result of a 
bad environment. In their own country the Natives are by no means 
lacking in respect to white womanhood. A European lady travelling 
in Basutoland without escort would probably be safer there than in England 
under the like condition. The Hon. H. Burton, Attorney-General of the 
Cape Colony, reports, after visiting the Transkei, that in that great reserve, 
where ten thousand Europeans are surrounded by a million Natives, the 
molestation of white women is a thing unheard of. . . . Obviously the 
treatment which the Natives get is not on the whole such as he can be 
expected to like, and the drift of things appears to be towards greater harsh- 
ness, especially towards severer pass laws and the stricter denial of property 
rights. In one of our Parliaments a Commission has just reported in 
favour of breaking up the reserves and bringing the Natives under a 
system resembling slavery. 



CHAPTER XI 


THE natives' land ACT IN CAPE COLONY 


It must not be lost sight of that all land held by Europeans in Africa 
has been acquired by conquest or diplomacy, and that the aboriginal 
Natives have been ousted by the white man : that being so, I cannot 
see any reason why the Native should not be allowed to buy back 
what he has lost ; in my opinion he should be encouraged to do 
so. . . . 

He is a better citizen than the thriftless European who lives from hand 
to mouth and makes no effort to better his circumstances. . . . 

Legislation should be carefully watched lest endeavours be made to 
deprive deserving Natives of the privilege of acquiring title to land. 
In the Transvaal strong efforts are being made to restrict the acquisi- 
tion of land by Natives ; but I can see neither justice nor reason in 
such a measure. If the Native by his education, honesty, thrift and 
industry has got the means to buy land, even in the Transvaal, why 
should he not be allowed to do so ? . . . 

The Natives are already pretty tightly " squeezed in the matter of land 
in South Africa, and it is time this " squeezing " process came to an 
end. They must have somewhere to live. What would we do in 
this country without them ? 

Mr. J. Hemming, a Cape Magistrate. 

D uring the month of October, 1913, the fell 
work of the iniquitous provisions of the Natives' 
Land Act was done so remorselessly that the British 
blood of certain editors of Natal dailies rose 
superior to their Colonial prejudices and they lashed 
out against such wicked and wholesale injustice 
on the part of the legislation against the peaceful 
native population. It has already been pointed out 
that when the Secretary for Native Affairs started 
to tour the districts, to teach Magistrates how to 
enforce the new Plague Act, some people thought 
that the tour was part of a scheme to alleviate the 

146 



THE LAND ACT IN CAPE COLONY 147 

distress that followed the enforcement of the Natives' 
Land Act, but the Natives and those oY their sym- 
pathizers who followed Mr. Dower's itinerary very 
soon discovered that the authorities were waging a 
war of extermination against the blacks ; and that 
they were bent upon reducing the independent black 
peasantry to a state of thraldom. Commenting on 
Mr. Dower's visit to the '' Free " State, the Natal 
Advertiser of October 4, 1913, said : — 

The explanation of the Natives' Land Act, given to the Barolongs 
of Thaba Nchu by Mr. Dower, is so illuminative of the wretched unsatis- 
factoriness of the Act that the occision certainly merits notice. It would 
be difficult to conceive a more thoroughgoing and drastic condemnation 
of the Act than this attempt at faint praise of it, delivered by the Secretary 
of the Native Affairs Department. All he can say to these unfortunate 
Natives is, that it would be better to engage as labourers or sell up than 
to trek from pillar to post, till all their cattle had died. As to saying that 
farmers always had power to evict, the interrupting Native hit the nail 
on the head by his ejaculation : "But we could go elsewhere." 

On October 5, the daily papers published the follow- 
ing telegram from Johannesburg : 

As the result of the passing of the Natives' Land Act, groups of Natives 
are to be seen in the different Provinces seeking for new land. They 
have crossed over from the Free State into Natal, from Natal into the 
Transvaal, and from the Transvaal into British Bechuanaland. . . . 

Yesterday a native arrived in Johannesburg from the Umvoti dis- 
trict, Natal, and reported that a chief, together with his tribe, had been 
evicted from a farm in the Greytown district. Natal, and that feeling in 
the matter had become acute. 

In the Western Transvaal hundreds of natives are crossing over into 
the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and in the Eastern Transvaal they are 
concentrating on three farms in the Wakkerstroom district that have 
been bought by a native land company. 

At present the attention of those working for the repeal of the law 
is being concentrated on the collection of funds for the purpose of sending 
a deputation to England. They hope to arouse public opinion there by 
lectures and other means. 

The Natal Mercury said : 

We pointed out at the time that the Act was passed that it was being 
rushed through the House without any proper inquiry and without much 
regard for native opinion or native feeling in a matter that affected their 
most vital interests. It was replied that the administration of the Act 
would be carried out on sympathetic lines, and that Mr. Sauer would 
make himself personally responsible for the administration being carried 
out in a manner which would inflict the least possible hardships on the 



148 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Natives affected. The industrial crisis was followed by the untimely 
end of Mr. Sauer which made his tour impossible, and the Act now seems 
to be put in force on the most approved red-tape lines, with the result 
that the Natives are in a state of great alarm and agitation. At the recent 
Missionary Conference at Maritzburg on July 8, the question was the 
subject of considerable discussion, and a series of resolutions were passed. 

What is happening is that in many places the Natives are being driven 
off land where they have been from time immemorial, so to speak. They 
consider the Act as an attempt to drive them into slavery, and numbers 
of them are being placed in the position of having no place to which to 
go. 


It must not be supposed, however, that all English 
colonial journalists regretted the operation of this 
atrocious law. The Cape Times, for instance, vied 
with the Hertzog press in congratulating the minister 
on having successfully passed it, and in belittling the 
hardships of the victims of the Act. One English 
farmer wrote to the Farmer's Weekly that the evictions 
were effective, but at the same time he regretted that 

as long as the Native kept to the public road he 
still had a resting place for the hollow of his foot.'' 
The Native had been successfully legislated off the 
land, and apparently this farmer wanted him to be 
legislated off the roads as well. Another English 
journalist wrote to the Sunday Post that the hard- 
ships are exaggerated, as he had himself seen only 
twelve families evicted in one day and on one farm. 
The question which this statement suggests is : How 
many families must be ejected from one farm in one 
day to constitute a hardship ; and whether this 
journalist would view with the same coolness a law 
which forcibly turned twelve white families off a 
farm, against the wishes of themselves and the land- 
owner ? 

Again, it cannot be said that South African politi- 
cians as a whole were indifferent to the suffering of 
the luckless victims of the Land Act, but they eased 
their consciences with the palliative thought that 
the sufferers were not so many. However this bliss- 



THE LAND ACT IN CAPE COLONY 149 

ful though erroneous self-satisfaction was nailed to 
the counter by the Rev. A. Burnet of Transvaal, 
when he said : I have yet to learn that a harsh 

law becomes less harsh, and an act of injustice less 
unjust, because only a few people are affected by it/' 

The section of the law debarring Natives from 
hiring land is particularly harsh. It has been ex- 
plained that its major portion is intended to reduce 
the Natives to serfs ; but it should also be noted 
that the portion of the Act that is against Natives 
acquiring any interest whatsoever in land aims 
directly at dispossessing the Natives of their live stock. 
Section 5 provides for a fine of £100, or six months' 
imprisonment, to a farmer convicted of accommodating 
a Native on his farm. And if after the fine is paid, 
the Native leaves the stock on the farm, for a number 
of days, while he goes to search for another place, 
there will be a fine of £5 per diem for each day the 
cattle remain on the farm. The cattle should be 
consigned to the road immediately the order is given 
for the ejection, and they should remain without 
food till their owner sells them, or finds employment 
under a farmer as a wage-earner. Thus it would 
seem that the aim of Section 5 is not only to pro- 
hibit native occupation of land, but, in addition to it, 
makes it impossible for him to be a cattle owner. 

When this harsh provision of the law was brought 
to the notice of Cape politicians, they shrugged their 
shoulders and remarked that they were happy that 
things in the Cape were not so bad. But this is no 
excuse at all, for in accordance with the wording 
of the Act, as substantiated by its results upon the 
Cape Natives, the condition of these Natives is worse 
in rhany instances than it is among the Natives of 
Natal, or of the Transvaal. In these two Provinces 
a European who has no intention of evicting his 



150 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

Natives may retain their services under certain restric- 
tions (see Sub-sect. 6 (c)) ; but in the Cape and the 
Orange Free " State, the Native, according to 
Section i, may retain no interest whatever in land, 
including the ploughing on shares.'' 

Well-to-do Natives, from Grahamstown to the 
Transkeian boundaries, mainly derived their wealth 
from this form of occupation. It enabled them to 
lead respectable lives and to educate their children. 
The new prohibitions tended to drive these Natives 
back into overcrowded locations, with the logical 
result that sundry acute domestic problems, such 
as disordered sanitation caused by the smallness of 
the location, loss of numerous heads of cattle owing 
to the too limited pasturage in the locations, are likely 
to arise. These herds of cattle have been the Natives' 
only capital, or the Natives' bank," as they truth- 
fully call them, so that, deprived of this occupation, 
the down-grade of a people, under an unsympathetic 
quasi-Republican Government like the present Union 
Administration, must be very rapid. 

The fact that the traditional liberal policy of Cape 
Colony has broken down through this law can no 
longer be disputed : indeed, the only comfort that 
had been held out to the Natives was that Mr. Sauer 
would make the Natives' Land Act a dead letter. 
This statesman having since died, we were anxious 
to see how the Cape Natives were faring under the 
Act, so we left Kimberley on November i, 1913, 
on a tour of observation in the eastern districts 
of the Cape Province. Our programme included 
visits to two alleged defenders of the Act, in the persons 
of Rev. James Henderson of Lovedale, and Mr. Tengo 
Jabavu of King Williamstown, editor of the Xosa 
Ministerial newspaper. Our object in visiting these 
gentlemen was to acquaint ourselves with their point 



THE LAND ACT IN CAPE COLONY 151 


of view, and if possible to arrive at an agreement 
with them. 

We reached Alice in the forenoon and walked through 
the town to the famous Native Institution. We 
made our first acquaintance with Lovedale, and we 
hardly remember having seen so many native boys 
housed in any one place before. But it pained us 
to think what must be the future lot of this great 
gathering of young fellows, who are now debarred by 
law from rights of ownership of the soil of South 
Africa, their own homeland. 

During our three hours' stay at Lovedale we had 
an interview with Mr. Henderson, the Principal, 
about things in general, and the Native College Scheme 
in particular, and lastly, but not least, about the 
Native Land Act. Unfortunately we could learn 
nothing from the eminent educator, for we found 
that his conclusions were based on second-hand infor- 
mation. He had never met any member of the 
Government, or their representatives, in fact it was 
news to the Principal that in going to Lovedale, that 
morning, we had met men on their way from the 
Magistrate's office in Alice, not far away, who had been 
definitely warned by the Magistrate against re-plough- 
ing their old lands on the farms. Of course Mr. 
Henderson was moved with sympathy for a people 
so ruthlessly treated by a Government they had 
loyally served. And it would seem that the Prin- 
cipal of Lovedale had since made independent in- 
quiries, for we have read in the Lovedale paper other 
evidence of the operation of this drastic law that had 
not come under our own observation. Thus in sup- 
porting the case of the Native Deputation in the 
Imperial Parliament on July 28, 1914, Sir Albert 
Spicer effectively read passages from the Christian 
Express, the organ of Lovedale. 



152 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

One of the instructors at Lovedale very kindly 
lent us a horse, and Mr. Moikangoa accompanied us 
to an all-night meeting at Sheshegu, a famous political 
** rendezvous which has acquired this distinction 
because it is the centre of numerous little locations, 
within easy reach of four surrounding Magistracies. 
At the all-night meeting at Sheshegu there were 
chiefs, headmen, and other Natives from the Peddie, 
Fort Beaufort and Alice districts. There were a mun- 
ber of school teachers also from these districts, and 
two or three native storekeepers. The disclosures 
made by the several speakers concerning the operation 
of the Land Act among the Natives made one's heart 
bleed. The chieftain Kapok Mgijima, who entertained 
many of the visitors to the meeting, had his own pecu- 
liar experience under the Act. Not only had he been 
debarred from re-ploughing his own lands, but he 
had also been ordered to move his oxen from a farm 
owned by a European, where for fourteen years 
he had grazed his oxen. Another Native, who had 
been ploughing in the direction of King Williamstown, 
was warned by the authorities not to resume his 
ploughing in 1913. He could only do so as a servant 
in the employ of a white landowner. He was further 
warned that if he connived with the white man to 
cheat the law, by representing themselves as master 
and servant, they would, when found out to be still 
carrying on their old relation of landlord and tenant, 
'he dealt with very severely. 

The landlord was furious. Why," he asked, 
'' did you tell them of your intention ? You should 
have done your business quietly ; now that you 
have apprised them they will watch us, you fool." 

** But," said the Native, " owing to the existence 
of East Coast fever in Transkei, no animals can be 
taken from one plantation to another without a raagis- 



THE LAND ACT IN CAPE COLONY 153 

terial permit disclosing the object of the removal. 
I had to tell what I wanted to come here for. I was 
asked at the Magistrate's office if I did not know the 
law. I said that I was aware of such a new law, which 
had created a lot of disturbance in the Northern 
Provinces, but I had never heard that it was applicable 
to the Cape. To this the Magistrate's clerk replied 
that it was not a Provincial law, it was a law of the 
Union, of which the Cape formed part. There were 
certain exemptions, the clerk added, but they did 
not exempt the Cape Natives from the prohibition 
of ploughing on white men's farms and grazing their 
cattle on those farms." 

Other speakers narrated their experiences under 
the Act, and these experiences showed that the Plague 
Act was raging with particular fury in the old 
Cape Districts of Fort Beaufort, Grahamstown, King 
Wdliamstown, and East London. At this meeting 
it was resolved to support a movement to send an 
appeal to His Majesty the King, against this law. 

Our visit to these places took place just after the 
glorious showers of the early summer. On the wider 
tracts of land owned by Europeans the grass looked 
invitingly green. The maiden soil, looking beautiful 
and soft after the soaking rains, cried silently for 
cultivation. The people who had hitherto depended 
on such cultivation for their subsistence were now 
prohibited by reason of their colour from earning 
their usual livelihood, as directed by Almighty God, 
'' In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread." 

This prohibition seems particularly contemptible 
when it is remembered that the majority of the Natives 
of these locations are Fingoes, and that their fathers 
in the early days joined the British in fighting most 
of the Kafir wars, side by side with British troops. 
They shared in all the massacres and devastating 



154 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


raids committed upon the British settlers by unfriendly 
native tribes. As a mark of recognition of their 
loyalty to the Government, and of their co-operation 
with the British forces in the field of battle, this 
country was given, in the name of Her late Majesty 
Victoria, to their chiefs by a British Governor. But 
in spite of this treaty, the people have been gradually 
dispossessed of the land during the past three-quarters 
of a century. Hence the occupation, now crystallized 
into ownership, passed bit by bit into white hands. 
Hitherto the right to live on, and to cultivate, lands 
which thus formerly belonged to them was never 
challenged, but all that is now changed. Naturally 
the ingratitude meted out to these people by the autho- 
rities in return for services consistently rendered by 
three successive generations of them will be a blow, 
not only to the economic independence of a loyal 
and. patriotic people, but to the belief in British sense 
of justice. 



CHAPTER XII 

THE PASSING OF CAPE IDEALS 

Naboth was right to hold on to his home. There were garnered memories 
that all the wealth of Ahab could not buy. 

Ward Beecher. 

F rom the great meeting place — Sheshegu — we 
went through the Alice district. In this district 
we met several men who would get no crops — their 
annual income — the next year, as the law had placed 
an embargo on their ordinary avocation. King 
Williams town was also visited, and there at a meeting 
held in the Baptist Church, which was kindly lent 
for the purpose by the Rev. Mr. Pierce, it was unani- 
mously resolved to appeal to His Majesty the King 
against the Natives' Land Act. Mr. W. Sebe presided 
over this meeting of representative Natives, and Mr. 
Bassie translated the Act. 

At Queenstown a similar resolution was passed by 
practically the whole meeting. Beyond answering 
questions at each of these meetings, the writer said 
little else besides reading the Act, which told its own 
tale. Many Natives who had never seen a copy of 
the Act before, but who had heard its praises sung 
by interested parties and had believed the false 
teachers, attended the meetings to oppose any undue 
interference with the law." But these men were 
appalled when the law was read to them, sentence by 
sentence, and translated by their own teachers in 

155 



156 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


their own tongue. Then a discussion would follow, 
invariably ending with the query : '' Can a Parlia- 
ment capable of passing such a law still be trusted 
by the community concerned 1 ** 

The Queenstown meeting, which was held in the 
Native Baptist School kindly lent by Messrs. Damane 
and Koti, was more interesting than the others because 
it is the only one of the many native meetings we 
attended where there was any dissent. There were 
four dissentients at Queenstown, and we take this 
opportunity of congratulating all genuine enemies 
of native welfare on the fact that they had four 
staunch protagonists of colour, who showed more 
manliness than Mr. Tengo-Jabavu because they 
attended the meeting. Still, if the courage of these 
opponents was admirable, we confess we did not like 
the gross callousness, and what seemed to us an inde- 
cent disregard of native suffering that was manifest 
in their conduct : when the story of the hardships of 
unfortunate victims of the Land Act was narrated 
they laughed, and repeated the newspaper excuse 
that the evictions were not directly due to the Act. 

We agree with them that evictions have always 
taken place, since the first human couple was sent 
out of the Garden of Eden, yet they must admit that 
until the Union Parliament passed the Natives' Land 
Act there never was a law sajdng to the native popu- 
lation of South Africa, You must not settle anywhere, 
under a penalty of £ioo, unless you are a servant." 
These unsympathetic Natives made no effort to defend 
the Act itself, but attempted to bluff the meeting 
with the supposed danger of, " reprisals by spiteful 
Boers, who, they said, will be more vindictive if Natives 
dared to appeal to the King, over the heads of the 
Boer Government." But the meeting would not be 
bluffed. One speaker especially remarked that the 



THE PASSING OF CAPE IDEALS 157 


Act embodied the very worst form of vindictiveness, 
and the sooner the whole world understood the Union 
Parliament's attitude towards the blacks the better 
it would be. The meeting agreed that no slavery 
could be worse than to be outlawed in your own homes, 
and the motion was carried against the said four 
dissentients. 

We interviewed a number of the Natives passing 
through Queenstown, and the result showed that 
many and varied were the vicissitudes of the 
Natives in the eastern districts of the Cape Pro- 
vince. 

From Queenstown we touched some of the north- 
eastern districts of the Cape Province. In one of 
these districts a fairly prosperous Native was farming 
as a tenant on a farm. By sheer industry he had 
earned and enjoyed the respect of all who knew him. 
His landlord, a white man, was particularly proud 
of him. This Native went into town one morning 
and as he passed the Magistrate's Court on his way to 
the stores, a messenger hailed him inside. Having 
entered the office, the Assistant Magistrate served 
him with a notice to leave his hired farm, on which 
he had been a tenant since his youth, and which was 
as much a home to him as to the proprietor. The 
landlord, on hearing of this, naturally resented this 
usurpation on the part of the authorities, who, he 
said, had unduly interfered with his private affairs. 
Next day the Baas drove into the town to interview 
the Magistrate, and to remonstrate with him on what 
he thought to be the unauthorized interference of the 
Assistant Magistrate. 

He and the Magistrate read and re-read the Natives' 
Land Act, and both came to the conclusion that it 
was a law that was as complicated as it was unneces- 
sary ; but the Magistrate, being a representative of 



158 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


the law, decided that, rightly or wrongly, it must 
be obeyed. 

This visit of the Baas to the Magistrate had made 
our native friend hopeful that it would result in avert- 
ing the calamity that threatened him and his family, 
but, to his utter dismay, the landlord on returning 
soon undeceived him and gave his own opinion of 

the most peculiar and wicked law that he had 
ever heard of. Although Dutchmen had known 
and had heard of some strange laws, yet this Dutch- 
man was so full of indignation at the strangeness of 
this law that his description of it was made up of 
largely untranslatable Dutch adjectives. These ad- 
jectives, however, could not relieve the suffering of 
his native tenant from the wound inflicted by the 
law in his sudden expulsion from his home. It seems 
clear that no South African Native, on leaving a 
Dutch farm, had ever received a more respectable 
send-off than our friend did on leaving his farm in 
compliance with the Natives' Land Act. The white 
landlord accompanied him right up to the boundary 
of the farm which for seventeen years had been his 
home, and which he was so cruelly forced to leave. 
For the first time in his life, as the Dutchman said, 
he shook hands with a Kafir. And, as he did so, 
he called down the direst curses upon the persons 
responsible for the impasse — curses, by the way, which 
seem to be liberally answered. 

It would, perhaps, be interesting to add what has 
happened since. Our native friend took his family 
to the town, because the Act is not enforceable 
in municipal areas. Leaving his family there, he 
started roaming about the districts, looking for a 
place where he could graze his cattle. In the course 
of the wandering his stock thinned down, owing to 
death from starvation and other causes. At home 



THE PASSING OF CAPE IDEALS 159 

his old master found he could not get on without him, 
so learning of the whereabouts of the Native and also 
of his sad plight, the master sent out to him and 
advised him to return home, graze his stock there, 
and '' hang the legal consequences/' May they never 
be found out. 

It has now amounted to this that white men who 
wish to deal humanely with their native friends must 
resort to clandestine methods, to enable a Native 
and his stock to drink the fresh water and breathe 
the pure air in the wide tracts of South Africa, for 
by law Natives have now less rights than the snakes 
and scorpions abounding in that country. Can a 
law be justified which forces the people to live only 
by means of chicanery ; and which, in order to pro- 
gress, compels one to cheat the law officers of the 
Crown ? This case is but one of many that came 
under our own observation, and there may be many 
more of which we know nothing. 

The Cape Times, the leading Bothaite daily news- 
paper of the Cape, has defended every action of the 
Union, including the dismissal of English Civil 
servants. It justifies this last act by alleging that 
the dismissed officials did not know Dutch. Conse- 
quently it could not be expected that this journal 
could have any qualms about a law enacted specific- 
ally to repress black men. It supported every harsh 
clause of the Natives' Land Bill, including Clause i. 
However, when the native deputation to England 
gave proofs of the ravages of the plague law " in 
Cape Colony, the Cape Times, instead of defending its 
pet law, said : '' The complaint to which they give 

precedence is particularly instructive," and so, quoting 
from the deputation's appeal which says : ''In the 
Cape Colony, where we are repeatedly told that the 
Act is not in force, the Magistrates of East London, 



NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


King Williamstown and Alice prohibited native 
tenants from reploughing their old hired lands last 
October, and also ordered them to remove their stock 
from grazing farms,'' this ministerial daily adds : '' It 
is unnecessary to consider the justice or other\^dse 
of this complaint for it is perfectly clear that if a 
Magistrate oversteps the bounds of the law, it is a 
matter to be dealt with by the Union Government/* 
It will be observed that this is an insinuation that 
the Magistrates who administer the Land Act at the 
Cape are exceeding their authority and should be 
dealt with by the Union Government." Now, 
what are the facts ? It is well known that all Magis- 
trates, including those at the Cape, are paid to ad- 
minister every legislative instrument, whether sensible 
or absurd, passed by the partly literate Parliament 
of the Union of South Africa. Hence, these Magis- 
trates, in ordering Natives off their farms, and turning 
native cattle off the grazing areas, are only carrying 
out Section i of the Natives' Land Act. One Cape 
Magistrate who ruled that to plough on a farm was 
no breach of the law, was " dealt with by the Union 
Government," for a peremptory order came from 
Pretoria declaring such a decision to be illegal. 

Therefore, so far from the Cape Magistrate 
" overstepping the bounds of the law " in expelling 
Natives from the farms and native cattle from their 
pastures, these Magistrates could legally have done 
worse, inasmuch as they could, under Section 5, have 
sent these Natives to prison for contravening Section 
I. In justification, then, of its own and of its party's 
share in this legislative achievement, the Cape Times 
should have sought a more worthy excuse than thus 
attempting to make scapegoats of a band of fair- 
minded men who presumably, prior to the Union, 
never thought it would be part of their duty to 



THE PASSING OF CAPE IDEALS i6x 


administer from the Cape bench an Act which 
inflicted such gross cruelty. 

Who, in the days of the Murrays, Mr. F. Y. St. 
Leger, and subsequently of Mr. F. E. Garrett, could 
have thought that the Cape Times would in this 
manner have destroyed its great traditions, built 
up during the nineteenth century, by sanctioning a 
law under which Cape Magistrates would be forced 
to render homeless the Natives of the Cape in their 
own Cape of Good Hope ? The one Colony whose 
administration, under its wise statesmen of the 
Victorian era, created for it that tremendous prestige 
that was felt throughout the dark continent, and 
that rested largely upon the fact that among its 
citizens, before its incorporation with the northern 
states, it knew no distinction of colour, for all were 
free to qualify for the exercise of electoral rights. 
The old Cape Colony of our boyhood days, whose 
administration, despite occasional lapses, managed 
during a hundred years to steer clear of the familiar 
massacres and bloodshed of punitive expeditions 
against primitive tribes, massacres and bloodshed 
so common in other parts of the same continent ; 
the old Cape Colony whose peaceful methods of civili- 
zation acted as an incentive to the Bechuana tribes 
to draw the sword and resist every attempt at annexa- 
tion by Europeans other than the British : a resis- 
tance so determined that it thwarted the efforts to 
link German South West Africa with the Transvaal 
Republic, and so kept open the trade route to Rhodesia 
for the British. All this done without any effort 
on the part of the British themselves, and done by 
the Natives out of regard for Cape Colony ideals. 
But alas ! these Natives are now debarred from tilling 
the soil of the Cape, except as Republican serfs. 
What would Sir George Grey, or Bishop Gray, or Saul 



i 62 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


Solomon, say of this ? What would these Empire 
builders say if they came back here and found that 
the hills and valleys of their old Cape Colony have 
ceased to be a home to many of their million brawny 
blacks, whose muscles helped the conqueror to secure 
his present hold of the country ? What would these 
champions of justice say if they saw how, with her 
entrance into the Union, Cape Colony had bartered 
her shining ideals for the sombre history of the 
northern states, a history defiled with innocent blood, 
and a territory soaked with native tears and scan- 
dalized by burying Natives alive ; and that with one 
stroke of the pen the so-called federation has 
demolished the Rhodes's formula of '' equal rights for 
all civilized men, irrespective of colour " ? How are 
the mighty fallen ! 

But while we sing the funeral dirge of Cape ideals, 
the Republicans sing songs of gladness. Thus, when 
Mr. Sauer, a noted disciple of the late Mr. Saul Solomon, 
died, the Bloemfontein Friend, the leading Ministerial 
daily of th^' Free " State, said : 

He stood uncompromisingly for Rhodes's ideal of complete equality, 
and it was an open secret that Mr. Sauer, who piloted the Natives' Land 
Act through Parliament last session, would, had circumstances been 
different, have been its strongest opponent. It was the irony of fate 
that made him Minister of Native Affairs when a law had to be passed 
which appeared to be in entire conflict with his cherished lifelong con- 
victions. The Act he passed embodied the hated northern principles 
which he had consistently opposed during the whole of his political career, 
and, as in the case of the Act of Union, it was only Mr. Sauer's influence 
that allayed the feelings of the intransigent section of the native popu- 
lation. 

Mr. Sauer was a convinced disciple of the teachings of Saul Solomon, 
who founded and preached the gospel of the Capelnative policy. In our 
view that was a mistaken policy. Its principal modem exponent has 
now been taken away, and if God, and not man, shapes the destinies of 
nations, we may be pardoned the belief that Mr. Sauer's death at this 
juncture means something more than the mere passing from the finite 
into the infinite of one human being. 

If this is a brutal utterance, it is at any rate more 
frank, and therefore more manly, than the vacillating 



THE PASSING OF CAPE IDEALS 163 

policy of the Cape Times y the Ministerial organ of the 
Cape Colony. It is said that politics make strange 
bed-fellows," but not even the shrewdest of our 
political seers could have predicted that in 1913 the 
Cape Times would be found in the same can^p as its 
Republican contemporaries which sing glees over 
the demolished structure of Cape traditions, and 
over the passing away of Victorian statesmen and the 
principles they stood for — Victorian principles, which 
the Cape Times of other days helped to build up in 
another political camp ! How are the mighty fallen ! 

Dear lovely bowers of innocence and ease, 

Seats of my youth when every sport could please, 

How often have I loitered o'er thy green, 

Where humble happiness endeared each scene ! 

How often have I paused on every charm ; 

The shelter'd cot, the cultivated farm, 

The never failing brook, the busy mill, 

The decent church that topt the neighbouring hill. 

The hawthorn bush with seats beneath the shade 
For talking age and whisp'ring lovers made ! 

How often have I blest the coming day. 

When toil remitting lent its turn to play ! 

And all the village train, from labour free. 

Led up their sports beneath the spreading tree ; 

With bashful virgins' sidelong looks of love. 

The matron's glance that would these looks reprove. 

These were thy charms, sweet Province, sports like these. 

With sweet succession, taught e'en toil to please ; 

These round thy bowers their cheerful influence shed. 

These were thy charms — but all these charms are fled. 

Sweet smiling village, loveliest of the lawn, 

Thy sports are fled and all thy charms withdrawn ; 

Amidst thy bowers the tyrant's hand is seen 
And desolation saddens all thy green : 

And trembling, shrinking from the spoiler's hand. 

Far, far away, thy children leave the land. 

Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, 

Where wealth accumulates and men decay. 

The Cape Native can thoroughly endorse these 
sentiments of Oliver Goldsmith, which, however, 
compared with his own present lot, are mild in the 
extreme ; for it could not have been amid scenes of 



i 64 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


this description, and with an outlook half as bad as 
ours, that the same author further sings : 


A time there was e'er England's grief began, 

When every rood of ground maintain'd its man ; 

But times are alter'd : Trade's unfeeling train 
Usurp the land and dispossess the swain. 

Those gentle hours that plenty bade to bloom, 

Those calm desires that ask'd but little room, 

Those graceful sports that grac'd the peaceful scene, 
Liv'd in each look and brighten'd all the green. 
These far departing seek a kinder shore, 

And rural mirth and manners are no more. 

In all my wand'rings round this world of care, 

In all my griefs — and God has giv'n my share — 

I still had hopes my latest hours to crown, 

Amidst these humble bowers to lay me down. 



CHAPTER XIII 

MR. TENGO-JABAVU, THE PIONEER NATIVE PRESSMAN 

Egotists cannot converse ; they talk to themselves only. 

Alcott. 

T here is issued in King Williamstown (Cape) 
Imvo, the second oldest newspaper published 
in any one of the South African native languages. 
This paper formerly had a kind of monopoly in the 
field of native journalism, and it deserved a wide 
reputation. In later years the Izwi, another native 
journal, appeared on the scene ; and then the King 
Williamstown pioneer could hardly hold its ground 
against the new rival. The Izwi, though somewhat 
too pronounced against the traditional policy of the 
Dutch, appealed to a large section mainly by reason 
of its Imperial sentiment. The result was that Mr. 
Tengo-Jabavu's paper began to sink into difficulties 
and had to cast about for a financial rescuer. Pro- 
minent supporters of the present Ministry came to 
the rescue ; three out of the ten members of the first 
Uniofi Cabinet became shareholders in the sinking 
ImvOy so that the editor, in a sense, cannot very well 
be blamed because his paper is native only in lan- 
guage. However, we do not think that he does full 
justice to his ministerial employers. 

God forbid that we should ever find that our mind 
had become the property of some one other than 
ourselves ; but should such a misfortune ever over- 

165 



i66 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


take us, we should at least strive to serve our new 
proprietor diligently, and whenever our people are 
unanimously opposed to a policy, we should con- 
sider it a part of our duty to tell him so ; but that 
is not Mr. Jabavu's way of serving a master. 
Throughout the course of a general election, we have 
known him to feed his masters (the S.A. party), 
upon flapdoodle, fabricating the mess out of imaginary 
native votes of confidence for his masters' delectation, 
and leaving them to discover the real ingredients of 
the dish, at the bottom of the poll, when the result 
has been declared. 

He did the same thing in the case of the Natives' 
Land Bill. Thus when he found that the trouble was 
organizing the Natives on an unprecedented scale, 
and that the Native Press and the Native Congress 
were unanimous in denouncing the Grobler-Sauer 
Bill, a Reuter's telegram appeared in the newspapers 
purporting to give the proceedings of a meeting of 
the Natives of King Williamstown, who, it was alleged, 
approved of the Bill. When the author reached 
King Williamstown, during this visit, he found the 
King Williamstown Natives disgusted with what 
they said was Reuter's speculation upon their feelings. 
But Reuter's agent on the spot, whose office we also 
visited, knew nothing about the meeting. The only 
meeting ever held in the place, we were told, was one 
of nineteen persons presided over by Mr. Tengo- 
Jabavu, and when Mr. Jabavu asked the other eighteen 
Natives present in the meeting besides him to signify 
their approval of the legislation, Mr. W. D, Soga 
(a well-known native politician) asked the chairman 
to place a motion before the meeting, as he was ready 
to move an amendment. The temper of the meeting 
having already shown itself unfavourably to the 
chairman's suggestion, the latter, instead of ^challeng- 



MR. te;ngo-jabavu 


167 


ing a positive defeat, suggested an adjournment. 
This was agreed to for the simple reason that nine- 
teen persons were too few to express the wishes of 
the 100,000 Natives of King Williamstown. But, 
the next morning, the message '' from Reuter's agent 
at King Williamstown" appeared in all the daily 
papers, except that of King Williamstown, conveying 
the Natives' approval of the Bill, and Mr. Sauer, in 
Parliament, made capital out of the " mess "-age. 
But Mr. Tengo-Jabavu lived to rue his action in 
this matter before very long. His authority, or rather 
his leadership, of the Natives, was put to the test 
in March, 1914, when he contested the Tembuland 
seat against Dr. W. B. Rubusana. Dr. Rubusana 
had always been supposed to occupy the second place, 
and Mr. Jabavu the first place, in the estimation of 
the Natives of the Cape Province : yet, to the surprise 
of everybody, Mr. Jabavu, although assisted by the 
Dutch vote, polled only 294 votes, while Dr. Rubusana, 
who relied entirely on the coloured vote, polled 852. 

We mentioned, in a previous chapter, the names 
of Principal Henderson and Mr. Tengo-Jabavu, as 
those whom we especially desired to interview during 
our trip. Having stated the fulfilment of this desire 
in regard to Mr. Henderson, we now proceed to state 
it in regard to Mr. Jabavu. 

There was to be a meeting of the Natives of King 
Williamstown, in the Baptist Chapel, on November 
3, 1913, to discuss the Natives' Land Act. To this 
meeting we had been invited by telegram ; and in 
going to King Williamstown we made up our mind 
to invite Mr. Jabavu to this meeting of Natives of his 
town, and in fact, to treat him with the same respect 
as we had shown the Principal of Lovedale with such 
happy results ; but, to our horror, we found that Mr.^ 
Jabavu was not only preaching the Backvelders' 



i68 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

dangerous politics, that were ruinous to native interests, 
but that, besides their dangerous politics, he had 
imbibed their baser quality of ingratitude. For this 
man had not only enjoyed our free hospitality on 
three occasions, when he visited up-country, and 
the hospitality of our relatives at various times in 
other parts, but when he was about to leave for 
Europe, on a holiday jaunt, and wanted some one to 
take charge of his work, we left our own affairs and 
went to King Williamstown, at our own expense, to 
fill that post, and we filled it without a fee ; but, see 
his retaliation. 

We reached King Williamstown on Saturday evening 
and called at Mr. Jabavu's house on Sunday afternoon. 
Mrs. Jabavu said her husband had gone to Stutterheim, 
and would be back by a late train. On Monday 
morning we called at Mr. Jabavu's office, and his son 
whom we saw said his father would be there in 
the afternoon. We called in the afternoon and was 
told that he was inside and would see us later. We 
waited from 2.30 till nearly 4 p.m., chatting with his 
son, while Mr. Jabavu was closeted in the next room, 
evidently unwilling to see us. As his son had to leave, 
we also went away, but returned to his office at 6 p.m., 
just an hour before the opening of the public meeting 
to which we wished to invite him. Mr. Jabavu sent 
a verbal message, with the young lady who had taken 
in our card to him, to the effect that he was not pre- 
pared to see us. That in brief was our reception by 
the man who edits '' a native paper.'' 

We went to the meeting at the Baptist Chapel, 
which was a huge success. Mr. W. Sebe presided. 
The editor of the King Williamstovm daily paper, an 
Englishman, attended the meeting in person and took 
notes for his paper, while no reporter represented the 
soi-disant native paper of King Williamstown. 



MR. TENGO-JABAVU 


169 


When the proceedings of the meeting appeared 
in the King Williamstown English paper, Mr. Jabavu 
attempted to discount the report by writing in hi3 
own paper that the Cape Mercury evidently does 
not know that there are Natives and Natives, as well 
as King Williamstown and King Williamstown, there 
being town and country,'* etc. This being a veiled 
insinuation that the rural native view was opposed 
to the urban native view at King Williamstown, we 
could not leave the matter unchallenged, so we posted 
the following challenge to Mr. Tengo- Jabavu, which 
he evidently found it impossible to accept : — 

Dear Sir, — 

Imvo comments disparagingly on Monday's meeting, and adds that 
the Natives who composed the meeting were a handful drawn by curiosity. 
Now, I challenge Imvo, or Mr. Tengo-Jabavu, to call a series of three public 
meetings, anywhere in the district of King Williamstown. Let us both 
address these meetings immediately after the Natives' Land Act has been 
read and interpreted to each. We could address the meetings from the 
same platform, or separately, but on the same day and at the same place. 
For every vote carried at each of these meetings in favour of his views on 
the Act I undertake to hand over £1^ to the Grey Hospital (King Williams- 
town), and £15 to the Victoria Hospital (Lovedale), on condition that for 
every vote I carry at any of the meetings, he hand over £15 to the Victoria 
Hospital (Mafeking), and £15 to the Carnarvon Hospital (Kimberley), 

That is £30 for charity, if he will accept. 

I will not place difficulties in his way by inviting him to meetings up 
here, but leave him to call meetings among his own people (if he has any) 
in his own district, and I will attend at my own expense. 

Yours, etc. 

(Sgd.) Sol. T. Plaatje, 

Editor of Tsala ea Batho, and Secretary S.A. Native National Congress. 
14, Shannon Street, Kimberley. 

"IMVO'S" REPLY 

Dear Sir , — / am instructed by the Editor of " Imvo " to acknowledge the 
receipt of your letter, and to inform you that as he has not been reading and 
following your writings, etc., he cannot understand what you mean by it. 
In short, to let you know that he takes no interest in the matter. 

I am, Sir, 

Yours truly, 

{Sgd.) A. M. JABAVU. 

" Imvo " Office, King Williamstown, 

November 24, 1913. 

Poor fellow ! He had not met a single member 
of the Government since the plague law was so rudely 



170 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

sprung upon an unsuspecting country, and since 
it sent unprotected widows and innocent children 
adrift, to wander about with their belongings on their 
heads. Mr. Jabavu had not met any member of 
Parliament and discussed the measure with him or 
with a responsible Government official ; so he found 
it awkward to accept a challenge to substantiate his 
arguments, in the presence of one who had not only 
discussed the measure with members of Parliament, 
with Cabinet Ministers and their representatives, but 
who had also witnessed the ravages of the Act amongst 
the Natives in the country. 

The general complaint of the Natives of King 
Williamstown, his fellow-townsmen, is that he refuses 
to attend their meetings and relies on the white daily 
papers for information about the Natives at large. 

But Mr. Jabavu is nothing if he is not selfish. We 
are informed, and have every reason to believe, 
that, three months after the Act was passed, he 
wanted to raise a loan of £200 on landed security, but 
was debarred by the Natives' Land Act. The next 
issue of his paper praised the Act for the sixtieth time 
and noted the following exception : '' There is only 

one flaw in this otherwise useful Act, which is occasion- 
ing a manifest hardship through harsh administration, 
and that is the provision relating to lending money." 

Now, from our point of view, this seems to be the 
only defensible provision, as it would tend to discourage 
usury, a common evil in money transactions between 
Europeans and Natives ; but because it interfered 
with Mr. Jabavu's personal aims, that is the only flaw. 
The cold-blooded evictions and the Draconian prin- 
ciple against living anywhere, except as serfs, are 
inconsequential because they have not yet touched 
Mr. Jabavu's person. 



CHAPTER XIV 

the native congress and the union government 

Pity and need make all flesh kin. There is no caste in blood which runneth 
of one hue ; nor caste in tears, which trickle salt with all. 

Sir Edwin Arnold. 

A NATIVE meeting was called to meet at 
Johannesburg on July 25, 1913, under the 
auspices of the South African Native Congress. 

The Congress was attended by Natives from as far 
south as East London and King Williamstown, and 
from as far north as the Zoutpansbergen in Northern 
Transvaal, and also from Natal, Zululand, and from 
Bechuanaland ; in fact from nearer and distant centres 
in all parts of the country they had gathered to dis- 
cuss the situation arising from the serious conditions 
created by the Natives' Land Act. Thus the pro- 
ceedings of the meeting were conducted under a grave 
sense of responsibility. There was little of the 
customary loquaciousness which characterizes n£i.tive 
gatherings ; and there was much less free translation 
of the speeches for the benefit of the European visitors. 
Translations, as a rule, take up a great deal of valuable 
time, and it was their curtailment on this occasion, 
apparently, which caused the Transvaal Leader — 
a morning paper of the Rand — to complain that 
Natives had become unusually secretive and had 
ceased to be as communicative as at previous meetings. 
The Rand Daily Mail, on the other hand, referred to 

171 



172 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA ^ 

the closing session in a very few lines. It^ said : 
'' Last evening, a number of Native women attended 
the Native Congress, attired as befitting the solemnity 
and importance of the occasion. The orderly behavi- 
our of the 200 or more delegates was attributable 
to the presence on the platform of Mr. Dube, an able 
chairman, supported by two native solicitors who 
passed their B.A. in London.'* 

Mr. R. W. Msimang is a solicitor who was articled 
to a firm of solicitors in England ; but the reference 
to the second '' native solicitor " and '' London B.A." 
is about the most undeserved compliment ever paid 
to the author, who, until 1914 (a year after the Congress 
reported by the Mai/), had never been on board a ship, 
nor inside a London college. 

At the annual Congress, March, 1913, a deputation 
had been appointed to proceed to Capetown and to 
present to the Government the native objections 
against the proposed embargo on the purchase and 
lease of land. The deputation consisted of Mr. 
J. L. Dube, Dr. W. B. Rubusana, Mr. Advocate Man- 
gena. Rev. L. Dlepu, Messrs. W. Z. Fenyang, S. Msane, 
L. T. Mvabaza, D. Le Tanka, and S. T. Plaatje ; the 
writer, however, was not able to proceed to Capetown 
at the time. The July Congress was specially called 
to receive the report of the delegates to Capetown, 
and further to consider what other steps it might be 
necessary to take. 

Dr. Rubusana gave a report on the deputation 
to Capetown. They had four interviews with the 
Minister of Native Affairs, and several interviews 
with members of Parliament, urging the setting aside 
of some Government farms, to which evicted native 
tenants might go, as the effect of the Bill, then under 
discussion, would inevitably be to make numbers of 
them homeless. The Minister, he said, never denied 



THE NATIVE CONGRESS .173 

the possible hardship that would follow the enforce- 
ment of such a law, but he seemed to be driven by 
a mysterious force in the face of which the native 
interest did not count. What that force was, he 
said, could only be surmised. General Hertzog, 
who had always advocated some such measure (though 
he had never been able to carry it out), had just been 
excluded from the Botha Cabinet ; to placate his 
supporters, who were very angry over his dismissal, 
the Government carried out this alleged policy of his, 
so that while General Hertzog in office was not able 
to bring about the enslavement of the blacks, General 
Hertzog out of office succeeded in getting the Govern- 
ment to sacrifice their principles of right and justice 
and to force the Act through Parliament, in order 
to retain the support of the Free State mal- 
contents. 

When every effort with the Ministry failed, the 
delegates asked for a postponement of the Bill pending 
the report of the Commission, This also was refused 
by the Government. Finally he wrote a letter to 
Lord Gladstone, asking him to withhold his assent 
to the Bill until he had heard the native view. To 
this His Excellency replied that such a course was 
" not within his constitutional functions.'' All this 
took place in May, 1913. 

In July, Mr. Dube, the president of the Congress, 
wrote to Lord Gladstone asking for an interview to 
lay before him the nature of the damage that the Act 
was causing among the native population. Again 
His Excellency replied that it was not within his 
constitutional functions. ' ' 

The Natives' Land Act, which was then law, was 
read to the assembled Natives, most of whom narrated 
their experiences and the result of their observations 
of the effect of the Act during the six weeks that it 



174 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


had been in force. Congress considered these, and 
as a result of their deliberations it was resolved to 
appeal to His Majesty's Government ; and also to 
take steps to apprise the British public of the mode 
of government carried on in British South Africa 
under the Union Jack, and to invoke their assistance 
to abrogate the obnoxious law that had brought the 
Congress together. 

The Congress considered at length how His Majesty 
the King and the British public could best help the 
Natives in these matters ; and it was concluded that 
if South Africa were really British, then any suffering 
taking place in that country must be of concern to 
His Majesty the King and the British public. The 
next point for inquiry by the Congress was the journey 
of a deputation to be chosen to proceed on this mission, 
a journey consisting of six thousand miles by sea and 
a thousand miles by rail. When the Europeans of 
South Africa went to England to ask the Imperial 
Government for a Constitution, their delegates were 
easily sent, because the native taxpayers, although 
with hardly any hope of benefiting by the gift — which 
amounted to a curtailment of their rights — were 
compelled to contribute to the travelling and other 
expenses of these envoys ; but in the Natives' own 
case no such funds are at his disposal, even though he 
goes to the Imperial Government to point out that 
his taxes had been used by a Parliament in which he 
is unrepresented as a rod for his back. In order to 
meet this necessary demand for ways and means, 
Mr. Msane was deputed to tour the country and ask 
for funds from the Natives. A Johannesburg com- 
mittee was appointed to superintend this effort and take 
charge of the funds which he might raise. The members 
of the said committee were : Messrs. W. F. Jemsana 
(chairman), Elka M, Cele (treasurer), D. S. Letanka, 



THE NATIVE CONGRESS 175 

R. W. Msimang, H. D. Mkize, B. G. Phooko, D. D. 
Tywakadi, D. Moeletsi, M. D. Ndabezita, H. Selby 
Msimang (hon, sec.), S. Msane (organizer). Finally a 
deputation was appointed to proceed to Pretoria to lay 
before the Union Government three resolutions that 
the Congress passed. The first, condohng with the 
Government on the death of Hon. J. W. Sauer, late 
Minister of Justice and Native Affairs, who died just 
as the Congress was about to meet ; the second resolu- 
tion, that the Natives dissociated themselves entirely 
from the industrial struggles on the Witwatersrand 
and elsewhere, and preferred to seek redress for their 
grievances through constitutional rather than by 
violent means. 

The third resolution, that humble representations 
to the authorities against the eviction of Natives 
from farms, having proved unavaihng, the Natives 
had now decided to raise funds for the purpose and 
convey their appeal to His Majesty the King and to 
the British public. That Mr. Msane had been ap- 
pointed organizer of the appeal fund and that a safe 
conduct was requested for him to tour the native 
villages. The following deputation was appointed 
to present these resolutions to the Union Government 
at Pretoria : Chief Karl Kekana and Mr. S. M. Mak- 
gatho of the Transvaal, Mr. E. Mamba of the Transkei 
(Cape), Mr. Saul Msane and Rev. R. Twala (Natal), 
Mr. S. T. Plaatje (Kimberley), and Mr. J. M. Nyokong 
of the Orange '' Free '' State. 

Mr. S. F. Malan, the Minister for Native Affairs 
pro tern, received the deputation in the Government 
Buildings, which were the Transvaal Houses of Parlia- 
ment before Union. With the Minister of Native 
Affairs were Messrs E. Barrett, Assistant Secretary 
for Native Affairs, Mr. Pritchard, the Johannesburg 
Commissioner, and Mr. Cross, a Rand Magistrate, 



176 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA ^ 

The Minister readily received the resolutions and 
confessed to a feeling of relief at the moderation of 
their tone. Further, he listened to the story of 
hardships already suffered by the Natives, as a result 
of the enforcement of the Land Act, specific instances 
of which were given, some being of Natives not far 
from Pretoria, who, after being evicted from their old 
homes and having found new homes, were told by 
the Commissioner that they could not settle therein. 

The delegates submitted to the Minister that their 
complaint was not a sentimental grievance, but real 
physical suffering. The Minister having listened 
to these statements, pointed out that this Act was the 
law of the land, which must be obeyed. He was not 
so sure, he said, that the Natives could achieve any- 
thing by means of a deputation to England as the 
law had already been signed by His Majesty's repre- 
sentative on the spot without hesitation. He could 
not see why the Natives should be interfered with 
when holding meetings and organizing a deputation 
to go to the King, as long as they kept within the four 
comers of the law. But it seemed to him that they 
should have waited until a commission had been 
appointed under Sections 2 and 3 of the Act. An 
appeal to the Sovereign, he added, was the inherent 
right of every British subject ; but he expressed the 
desire that the appeal to England should be dropped 
until the commission had first made its report. The 
delegates explained that as the law had in six weeks 
done so much harm, it was alarming to think what 
it might do in six months, while there was nothing 
definite to hope for irom the report of a commission 
not yet appointed, and whose report might conceivably 
take six years. 

The deputation made it clear that the appeal to 
th& King would be dropped if the Government under- 



THE NATIVE CONGRESS 177 

took to amend the law pending the report of the 
commission. 

The Natives' Land Act in Natal 

In the following months both the Minister in charge 
of Native Affairs and the Chief Native Commissioner 
of Natal asked Rev. John L. Dube, President of the 
S.A. Native National Congress, to furnish them with 
information and particulars of Natives in misery as 
a result of the Natives' Land Act. Mr. Dube had 
been collecting some concrete cases of hardship, includ- 
ing Chief Sandanazwe of Evansdale, Waschbank, who 
stated that he and fifty members of his tribe " are given 
notice to remove, and that he has made representations 
to the authorities in Maritzburg asking for land without 
success." 

Mr. Dube sent the following letter to the Secretary 
for Native Affairs, with a list of evicted farm tenants, 
on September 12, 1913. 

Sir, — 

The Chief Native Commissioner for Natal approached me shortly 
after the publication in the Press of my open letter^ with a request similar 
to that made by you, viz., that I should furnish him with particulars 
and information. From time to time I did so furnish those names to 
the Chief Commissioner, and I send you herewith a list of those names 
and also additional names which have come to my knowledge since my 
correspondence with the Chief Native Commissioner. 

In regard to the concluding paragraph of your letter to the effect 
that the only result of the Chief Native Commissioner's request was the 
submission of the case of a Native in the Weenen County who received 
notice from his landlord over a year ago; you must be misinformed. As 
you will see from the list, scores of names were furnished to the Native 
Commissioner, and furthermore, some of the individuals themselves who 
were suffering hardship were sent by me to the Chief Commissioner and 
were interviewed by him. The trouble has been that the Chief Com- 
missioner, instead of dealing with these individual cases himself, has, I 
am informed, in many instances, sent the individuals on to the Magistrates, 
and my letters also have been forwarded to the Magistrates, with the 
request that Magistrates would go into the matter. However anxious 
the Magistrates may be to help in this matter they are but human, and 


^ Mr. Dube was here referring to an open letter which he sent to the 
Natal Press, explaining the hard lot of the Native victims of the Act, and 
appealing to the colonists to intercede with the South African Gk)vem- 
ment on behalf of the sufferers. 


M 



178 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


In many cases, I am informed, the)^ are overweighed with other work and 
have been unable to give the attention to these matters that they required. 
Moreover the Magistrate acts purely as an official, and the Native who 
is wandering about the country helpless does not get the immediate sym- 
pathy and attention which his case deserves and demands. In many 
cases the individuals I sent on are under the impression, rightly or wrongly, 
that nothing is being done for their relief. 

If I might make a suggestion, it would be that some independent 
gentleman should be appointed to investigate these cases— ;-soine gentle- 
man who would have sufficient time to devote to the investigation of the 
various instances of hardship that would come before him, and who would 
be empowered to do what was necessary to relieve the deserving. 

I may say further that since the introduction of the Squatters Bill 
during the 1912 session of Parliament eviction by farmers has been much 
increased, possibly in view of the impression that prevailed generally 
among the farming community that the Squatters Bill or some similar 
measure was to be re-introduced by the Government, the result being that 
those Natives who had been evicted by farmers now the Natives* Land 
Bill has become law, are prevented from entering into agreements with 
land owners as rent-paying tenants, and only under servile condition?, 
with the result that in many cases they become wandering and helpless 
vagrants. 

Another form of hardship which prevails very generally as the result 
of the Natives' Land Act is this ; The younger Natives do not receive the 
wage from farmers as can be easily earned, say, on the Rand mines, with 
the result that the younger men leave their homes and their fathers and 
proceed to the mines ; the father is unable to supply the labour demanded 
by the landlord owing to the absence of his sons, and as a result he is 
evicted — many cases of this sort can be cited. 

I may here cite two cases within my personal knowledge : (i) Bhulose 
was living on Mr. R. Miller's farm, " Dalmeny," near Phoenix. He was 
evicted with his wife and family in June last. He is seeking a place now 
to reside on, but cannot obtain one. (2) A native woman Vatplank, a 
widow with a family, was evicted from the property of a farmer, Mr. 
Adendorff, near Newcastle; this woman with all her household goods 
and her family had to camp out on the veld. She was barred by the Act 
from going to neighbouring farmers for a residence. 

I have done my utmost to give you concrete examples and names 
of persons suffering hardship. If I can supplement the information con- 
tained in this letter and in the accompanying list I shall only be too happy 
to do so. 

Might I suggest further that you should ask the Chief Native Com- 
missioner to forward to you all my correspondence with him on this 
matter ? This will show you and the Government that the statements 
contained in my open letter are not mere fabrications, but are based upon 
solid facts. 

John L. Dube. 

Mr. Dube's list includes evictions from the districts 
of Greytown, New Hanover, Ekukanyeni, Homeless 
(a very appropriate name in the circumstances), 
Howicic, Estcourt, and Mid-Illovu, 

Here is a specimen of notice : — 



THE NATIVE CONGRESS 179 

I hereby give you Mandwasi notice to leave my farm Blinkwater by 
the end of July, 1913. 

(Sgd) 

July 20, 191. Freestone Ridge. 

The wheels of administration moved slowly 
(to borrow an official phrase) between the Native 
Affairs Department and the other departments of 
State. Thus, while the authorities were temporizing 
with this and similar representations, the Natives' 
Lknd Act was scattering the Natives about the coun- 
try, creating alarm and panic in different places. 
The high officials of State, instead of relieving the 
distress thus caused, were interviewing Natives and 
urging them not to send a deputation to Europe. 
The Natives received this advice hopefully. They 
believed it was an indication that the Government 
was about to amend the law, in which case, of course, 
the deputation would be unnecessary ; but, besides 
this advice, the officials in each instance promised 
no relief. 

The Natal Native Commissioner held a similar 
meeting with a number of Zulus. The meeting asked 
for some relief for the evicted tenants who were roam- 
ing about the country, but the official significantly 
evaded the point. The disappointment of the meet- 
ing, created by his evasive replies, having overcome 
the proverbial native timidity when in the presence 
of authority, resulted in one petty chief saying to 
the Commissioner : '' Local authorities levy a tax 

every year on each of our dogs. We don't know what 
they do with the money. You have never complained 
against that waste, so why should you complain if 
our money is spent in sending a deputation to the 
King ? " The answer, if there was one, is not reported. 

General Botha, until then, never met native tatx- 
payers to discuss their grievances with them. But 
in the latter part of 1913, he actually met some Natives 



i 8 o NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

in the Eastern Transvaal, who desired to inform him 
of the ravages of the Act. But instead of holding 
out any hope that an asylum would be found for the 
wanderers, he proceeded to advise them against sending 
a deputation to England. The Natives having ^veti 
specific instances of the plight of certain evicted 
tenants in the neighbourhood, asked for an abode 
for them, but on that point the Premier would not 
be drawn. The Government's indifference to native 
sufferings being thus revealed, the Natives of Vryheid 
became more eager to help to organize the proposed 
deputation. 

General Botha's efforts against the deputation, 
without offering any homes to the evicted Natives, 
was probably the best stimulus towards the deputation 
fund. The Premier visited a northern tribe some 
time after and was said to have warned the chief and 
his people against the pretensions of the Native Con- 
gress. When Mr. Dube called there a few days later, 
they handed him £200 towards the deputation fund, 
which they had collected since General Botha's visit. 
Mr. Saul Msane similarly raised £360 for the fund in 
the Eastern Transvaal where the Premier first warned 
the Natives against the deputation without offering 
them any relief. 

Those Natives who were not immediately affected 
by the Act were rather lukewarm regarding the pro- 
posed deputation. But when the officials warned 
them against wasting their money on a deputation 
and told them in the next breath that it was a breach 
of the law to find an abode for the evicted wanderers, 
these Natives, perceiving the hollowness of the Govern- 
ment's advice, determined that as a last resort a 
deputation should be sent to England. 



CHAPTER XV 


THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 


Sorrow like this draws parted lives in one, and knits anew the rents which 
time has made. 


Lewis Morris. 


W HEN everything was ready another special 
Congress was called to meet at Johannesburg in 
February, to carry out the deputation's scheme and ap- 
point the delegates to proceed to England. In view of 
the dissatisfaction of the Government after the July 
Congress, the author considered it his duty to inform 
the Government that a meeting was about to take place. 
This information called forth a peremptory intima- 
tion from the Government that because of the recent 
strike of white men (from which the Natives had pub- 
licly disassociated themselves) the Native Congress 
could not be held. But at the time that this tele- 
graphic prohibition reached us General Smuts, Minister 
of Defence, was announcing in Parliament that the 
embargo on public meetings, in areas where, owing to 
the recent strike (of January, 1914), martial law was 
proclaimed, had been removed. Logically then General 
Botha's decision made the previous day in regard to 
the Congress meeting fell to the ground ; and so we 
telegraphed to Senator Schreiner and Dr. Watkins, 
members of Parliament, to ascertain if this was so. 
Both these gentlemen answered that in spite of the 

181 



i 82 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


removal of the prohibition of public meetings of whites, 
the Prime Minister directs that the one in regard to 
the '' Native Congress '' must stand. Thereupon the 
writer, after consulting a few native residents in Kim- 
berley, intimated to the executive of the Congress 
that : 


Kimberley, my home, is not yet a Republic in its sentiments. There 
we have not reached the stage where some one's permission must be 
asked before a meeting can be held. So we invite the Congress to hospitable 
and British Kimberley, where public meetings close with singing the 
British National Anthem and not with singing the " Volkslied " or the 
" Red Flag," as is the case in meetings at some other South African centres. 


After the notices were out the Government sent an 
intimation to the effect that the Congress was not 
actually prohibited. That it was only deemed unde- 
sirable to allow it to be held at Johannesburg, where 
a strike had taken place ; and that even there the 
Government no longer objected, provided it be held 
indoors. But this belated reconsideration was unneces- 
sary as the Kimberley preparations were far advanced 
and some of the delegates were already on their way 
to Kimberley. 

The Congress was opened in St. John's Hall at lo 
a.m. on Friday morning, February 27, 1914, by the 
Rt. Rev. W. Gore-Browne, Bishop of Kimberley and 
Kuruman. His lordship was accompanied by Arch- 
deacon de Rougemont and Rev. I. I. Hlangwana of 
St. Paul s Mission, who gave out the native hymns. 
In the absence of the president, who reached Kimberley 
in the afternoon of that day, the Bishop was received 
by Mr. Makgatho, vice-president of the Congress. 
After the religious exercise had ended, the Bishop 
counselled the Congress not to ask for a repeal of the 
whole Act, but only for relief from the oppressive 
clauses, and then to wait for the Commission's report 
in regard to the remainder of the Act. " There may 



THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 183 

be something good in it/' added the Bishop, '' as the 
glittering diamonds of Kimberley are found in blue 
clay." 

Mr. Makgatho, in thanking the Bishop for open- 
ing the Congress, thanked him for the allegory, 
but added, however, that he had never heard of 
a father who said to his child, ''You are hungry, 
my son, and I am going to prepare some dinner 
for you, but meanwhile you had better wait outside 
in the rain." After the Bishop gave the Congress 
his benediction. Prince Malunge-Ka-Mban-deni of 
Swaziland was introduced to him, as were the 
.Chiefs Molotlegi and Mamogale of Transvaal, Moiloa 
of the Bahurutshe, and Messrs. ElkaM. Cele of Natal, 
Meshach Pelem from the Cape, J. M. Nyokong, S. 
Litheko of the O.F.S., and other native leaders. 

In the evening a large public reception was held in 
the City Hall in honour of the delegates. Kimberley 
joined wholeheartedly in the function. De Beers 
Company, which had hitherto shown the greatest 
hospitality only to European assemblies and not to 
native conferences and organizations, acted otherwise 
in the case of this Congress and its requirements. 
Presumably Mr. Pickering, the secretary of De Beers, 
had had information that even the mining labourers 
in the enclosed mining compounds were heart and 
soul with their countrymen outside ; and so the 
Company's hospitality was extended to the native 
delegates. 

Bioscope films were projected by Mr. I. Joshua, the 
chairman of the A.P.O., Messrs. Lakey and September, 
other A.P.O. committee men, acting as masters of 
ceremonies. The coloured people attended in their 
hundreds, and cheered the musicians of their native 
brethren who entertained the people who thronged 
the City Hall till many were refused admission. The 



i 84 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Coloured People's Organization sent a speaker, Mr, 
H. Van Rooyen, to welcome the delegates on behalf 
of the African Political Organization. The president 
of their Ladies' Guild, Mrs. Van der Riet, a school 
teacher and musician of long standing, attended and 
played the accompaniment for the Greenport Choir 
on the pianoforte; Miss M. Ntsiko, who had borne 
the brunt of the evening's accompaniment, was thus 
relieved. 

Mr. Joseph Kokozela, on behalf of the Kimberley 
and Beaconsfield branches of the Congress, welcomed 
the Congress to Kimberley, and presented Mr. Dube, 
the president, with an address, which was beautifully 
illuminated by the Sisters of St. Joseph Convent, of 
Mafeking. Mr. H. Van Rooyen associated his people 
with the Natives in their present struggle for existence, 
and Dr. J. E. Mackenzie, who spoke on behalf of the 
Europeans, made a fine speech. He said that nobility 
was not confined to any particular race or colour ; 
that men with black skins have been known to be 
just as noble as men with white skins. Amongst other 
questions he asked, '' What could be more noble than 
the Bedford boy leader who subsequently became the 
St. Augustine of Central Africa, or what could be more 
noble than the action of the two servants of Dr. Living- 
stone, who carried his body, for hundreds of miles, 
through difficult forests, to the coast, and thus ensured 
his burial in Westminster Abbey ? " 

Dr. Mackenzie's speech was afterwards referred to 
by several native delegates to the Congress. They 
said that before they came to Kimberley they felt 
certain that English ideas were utterly obliterated in 
the Union of South Africa, and that English sentiments 
were things of the past ; but that Dr. Mackenzie's 
speech had given them fresh hope, as it was like cold 
water to a traveller in the desert. It was, they said 



THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 185 

further, like a dream to hear a white man talk like 
that in a mixed audience. 

The Congress received sympathetic telegrams from 
such old residents of Kimberley as Sir David Harris 
and Dr. Watkins. Both these gentlemen telegraphed 
their felicitations from Parliament. 

Mr. H. A. Oliver, member for Kimberley, a great 
Wesleyan and Sunday School leader, who was at 
Capetown for the Parliamentary session, instructed 
his manager at Kimberley to book seats on his account 
for the senior classes of the Newton Wesleyan Sunday 
School to attend the Congress entertainment. 

The Resident Magistrate of Kimberley telephoned 
to us on this same day that he had received the follow- 
ing telegram from the Secretary for Native Affairs : — 
Leaving to-night for Kimberley to attend the 'Native 
Congress. Inform Plaatje.*' 

It had never previously happened that a representa- 
tive of the Government attended a coloured political 
assembly, and it was felt that wiser councils had pre- 
vailed with the Government, and that as a result it 
had decided to meet the Natives, at least half-way. 
If gambling was one of the indulgences of the Natives, 
some at least of the delegates wo^d have wagered that 
Mr. Dower was conveying a concession to the Native 
Congress, by which it would be unnecessary for the 
latter to send a deputation to England. So thoroughly 
was the idea of a concession associated in the mind 
of the Congress with the approaching visit of Mr, 
Dower that it postponed the election of delegates 
for the mission to England. This anticipation was 
a reasonable one as the Union's recent legislation was 
in the melting-pot. 

The law against British Indians, passed at the same 
time as the Natives' Land Act, was just then recom- 
mended for mpdification, under pressure brought 



i86 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA ^ 

to bear upon the Imperial Government by the Govern- 
ment of India and other agencies. Again, the Labour 
members were creating difficulties both at Cai>etown 
and Westminster over General Smuts's Deportation 
Bill, which compelled the Government to amend its 
conditional banishment clause — a hardship that was 
not as vital or as absolute as the banishment clauses 
against black tenants in the Natives' Land Act. Con- 
sequently, the native delegates to Congress, repre- 
senting as they did an overwhelming majority of the 
inhabitants of South Africa — a section that had received 
nothing but violent legislation from the South African 
Parliament since the inauguration of Union — had 
every reason to expect that, for the first time, a Govern- 
ment emissary was carrying an olive branch to the 
Natives ; but, alas ! unlike the industrial strikers, 
the Natives had no votes to create a constitutional 
difficulty ; unlike the British Indians, they have no 
Indian Government at their back ; therefore, their 
vital interests, being negligible, could comfortably 
be relegated to the regions of oblivion, and this hope, 
like all its predecessors, was falsified. 

Mr. Dower attended the Congress on Saturday, 
February 28, and again on Monday, March 2, and 
made speeches. 

He was profuse in expressions of the gratitude of 
the Government to the Natives, their leaders and their 
chiefs, for the loyal co-operation they have alwaj^ 
rendered the authorities, and he came to ask them, 
he said, to perpetuate that loyal co-operation and to 
refrain from appealing to Great Britain on the Natives" 
Land Act. To appeal would be to put back the clock 
of the Native Affairs Department for many years. 
Of course, it did not matter about the putting back 
of the Natives' own clock, since its only use is that 
of an index for the registration of Government taxes. 



THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 187 


municipal pass fees at one shilling or more per month 
per Native, and similar phases of the black man's 
burden. Thus, in answer to questions put by the 
members of the Congress, Mr. Dower was not able to 
say that one iota of the provisions of that Draconian 
law would be modified before the Commission made 
its report, nor could he give a pledge in the name of 
the Government that if the Commission reported 
favourably to the Natives, Parliament would carry 
into effect the Commission's report, even though the 
pledge sought took no account of the possibility of 
the Commission's report being hostile to the interests 
of the Natives. This then was the character of the 
visit which the Government Secretary paid to the 
Native Congress. It was entirely barren of results, 
and as such it left the Congress as it found it, in 
bewilderment and gloom. 

Fresh fears took hold of the Congress. When the 
commissioners' names were gazetted, they were not 
received with any great amount of enthusiasm by the 
native population, for the best that could be thought 
of the Natives' Land Commissioners was that they 
were not associated with any political party. With 
such a view, it can be understood what were the feelings 
of the Congress when it thereafter learnt that four of 
the five commissioners were present, as delegates, at 
the conference of the Ministerial party held at Cape- 
town two months before (the conference at which 
Generals Hertzog and De Wet definitely severed their 
connexion with General Botha), nor was there anything 
to show that the fifth commissioner was not there 
also. Therefore, the situation amounted to this, that 
this Land Commission, which should be composed of 
impartial members, or, if made up of party politicians, 
it should at any rate represent the three political 
parties a,$«well as the Natives, was in reality but a 



i88 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


branch of the Ministerial party which foisted this very 
Land Act upon the country. 

It was finally resolved to appoint a deputation of 
five to accompany the president, Mr. Dube, to England 
if further efforts failed. The Congress nominated 
nine names, and the election of five delegates from 
these was entrusted to a committee of fourteen 
members of the Congress, who balloted for five and 
reported the result to the full Congress as follows : — 

S. T. Plaatje ... 13 Dr. W. B. Rubusana 2 

S. M. Makgatho . . 9 A. K. Soga ... 2 

Saul Msane . . . 6 M. Pellem ... 2 

W. Z. Fenyang . . 3 Chief Mamogale . . l 

T. M. Mapikela . . 3 

The first-named five were therefore declared elected. 
Mr. Fenyang subsequently stood down in favour of 
Dr. Rubusana ; Mr. Makgatho was not able to reach 
Capetown in time for the steamer's departure, so the 
deputation that eventually accompanied the president 
to England were : — 

1. Dr. Rubusana. 

2. S. T. Plaatje. 

3. Saul Msane. 

4. T. M. Mapikela. 

Their instructions were first to approach the Prime 
Minister and ask him to undertake on behalf of his 
parliamentary majority to repeal the Natives' Land 
Act, faihng that, to endeavour at least to get the clause 
rescinded which prevents evicted native tenants from 
finding settlements anywhere except as servants, and 
that if the Prime Minister should refuse to grant this 
request, they were forthwith to appeal to the Imperial 
Parliament and the British pubhc. 



THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 189 


It may be added that the Congress, before it rose, 
received telegraphic advices from Mr. Gibson of the 
Cape Church Council, and also from the Hon. W. P. 
Schreiner, not to appeal to England. These communi- 
cations encouraged the delegates to believe that inter- 
mediate relief was being arranged for, to ameliorate 
the condition of the wandering evicted Natives, in 
which case there would, of course, be no occasion to 
appeal to England. But it subsequently transpired 
that the Natives were advised against making an appeal 
to England without the offer of any relief. 

Before Congress rose votes of thanks were passed 
in favour of the Bishop of Kimberley and Kuruman, 
the De Beers Company, the Diamond Fields Advertiser 
for its liberal reports of the proceedings, Mr. Dower 
for entertaining the delegates to a dinner on Monday, 
and also to the residents of Kimberley. 

The special thanks of the Congress were voiced by 
Mr. Makgatho to the various committees, whose 
strenuous efforts for the comfort of the delegates left 
nothing to be desired. These were : — 

Committees of Local Branches 

Kimberley. — Messrs. Thos. Leeuw (chairman), S. 
Marogo (treasurer), Bill Tshabalala, H. Ndlovu, Z. 
Jumane, A. R. Mashoko, T. Diniso (secretary). 

Beaconsfield. — Messrs. J. Smith (chairman), W. 
January, S. Pehla (treasurer), Jas. Ngcezula, Ntshenge, 
B. Mradu, J. S. Kokozela (secretary). 

Local Accommodation and Refreshments Com- 
mittee : Mesdames J. Smith, S. Sidziya, M. Mahuma, 
S. Kawa, Mildred Kokozela and L. Skota ; Jdessrs. 
J. Chologi, J. Matsebe, S. Pehla, Soga, J. Ngcezula 
and A. Ntshoko. 

City Hall Reception Committee : Mesdames J. J. 



190 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


van der Riet and M. Ntsiko ; Messrs. Isaac P. Joshua, 
Sidney Motlhabi, P. W. Mama, T. Diniso, Tony Msen- 
gana and J. G. Motlhabi. 

An honorarium of £io was voted in favour of the 
honorary secretary, Mr. S. T. Plaatje. 

After the deputation reached Capetown on May 
13, 1914, we wrote Lord Gladstone informing him that 
we were bearers of a petition from the native popula- 
tion to His Majesty the King, which we would ask 
His Excellency to graciously convey. Of course we 
expected a short note from His Excellency to the 
effect that '' it was not within his constitutional 
functions " to meet us, but to our surprise this time 
His Expellency wrote appointing a meeting with us 
at no 6 n on May 15 at Government House. But, in 
the interview, the reason why that particular appoint- 
ment came within the pale of His Excellency's 
constitutional functions became apparent : for the 
Governor-General only made it the opportunity to 
urge the deputation not to go to England. 

The deputation replied that, even in native politics 
there was always an appeal from the action of an 
induna to the native chief and from the latter to the 
ruler; that it was straining the loyalty of the black 
millions of South Africa to tell them that there was 
no appeal to His Majesty the King against the oppres- 
sive laws of a Parliament in which they had no repre- 
sentatives. 

It must be added that although the Governor- 
General did not say so, yet the barbarous cruelties 
of this relentless law appeared to have produced a 
sympathy that was visible in his facial expression. 
Astonishment and pity were amongst the sensations 
which seemed to be depicted on Lord Gladstone's face. 
Still, he held out no hope that his good offices would 
be used to secure an amelioration of the conditions 



THE KIMBERLEY CbNFERENCE 191 

complained of. All His Excellency advised us to do 
was to abandon the appeal to England. 

But, your excellency, what about these cruelties 
that are now in progress ? we asked. 

** Oh, well,'' said Lord Gladstone, the Natives 
are not the only sufferers, even in England people 
have suffered hardships from time to time, till they 
were compelled to emigrate to America and other 
places." 

" That is true, your lordship, but it is to avert 
such a contingency, if possible, that the Natives ap- 
pointed a deputation to lay their case before His 
Majesty the King, as they have no means to emigrate 
to America, or any other country." 

'' Oh, no," he answered, '' don't misunderstand me ; 
I only use that as an instance, not that Natives must 
emigrate." 

The Governor-General then repeated the advice not 
to appeal to the Crown, but he held out no hope of an 
amendment in the Act, and so the deputation sailed 
for England. 

Previous to this interview, no less a personage than 
General Botha himself — Premier and Minister for 
Native Affairs — condescended to meet the deputation. 
Prior to this meeting, the deputation entertained 
strong hopes that the Premier would come to it with 
an offer of, say, at least allowing the hiring of land by 
Natives, pending the report of the Commission, even 
though the prohibition to buy land remained in force. 
But instead of such a minimum, the only hope that 
General Botha held out was that he had not evicted 
the Natives on his own farm, and that he had further 
told some farmers not to evict their Natives. These 
personal acts of the Premier on his own farm, and 
with regard to some other farmers, had not helped 
the entire native population of the Union since the 



192 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH -AFRICA 

Act was promulgated. Nor would they assist those 
native wanderers who are now without a home on 
earth, as General Botha himself could not allow any 
of them to settle on his farm without breaking the 
law. Again, it did not seem quite clear how General 
Botha's efforts in this direction could make any impres- 
sion on private landowners when his own officials 
were carrying out wholesale evictions of native 
tenants, on the Government farms at Standerton 
and elsewhere, and sending them adrift about the 
country. The only remedy, and that a partial one, 
would be to legalize the settlement of tenants who 
have been evicted. But to this General Botha said. 

If I went to Parliament now with a Bill to amend 
this law they will think Tm mad." 

That statement confirmed the decision of the 
deputation to proceed to England, and accordingly 
they at once made arrangements for sailing. 

One painful fact which these interviews revealed 
was the ignorance of the Government in matters 
relating to the Natives. The 5,000,000 blades of the 
Union are taxed to maintain what is called the most 
expensive Civil Service in the world. The officials of 
the Native Affairs Department, in return for their 
huge salaries, paid out of the proceeds of taxes levied 
from relatively the most poorly paid manual labourers 
in the world, namely, the Native taxpayers, are called 
" the guardians of the Natives " ; but General Botha, 
the Minister of Native Affairs, '' Father of the Natives " 
and supreme head of the Civil Service, seemed (or pre- 
tended) to know absolutely nothing of the manner in 
which his official underlings play battledore and 
shuttlecock with the interests of the Native popula- 
tion. To mention but one instance : at one stage of 
the interview we attempted to enlist his sympathy 
on behalf of the '' Free " State Natives in particular, 



^ THE KIMBERLEY CONFERENCE 193 


who, in spite of prohibitive laws in the Boer statute 
books, had not to our knowledge been debarred by the 
Boer Government from buying or leasing land. General 
Botha not only denied that his was the first Boer 
administration which definitely enforced these pro- 
hibitions but he also asserted, with all the dignity of 
his office, that no living Native had ever bought a 
farm in the '' Free '' State from a white man — in short 
he accused us of telling lies. Fortunately Mr. E. 
Dower, who remembered that some Native landowners 
in both the Hoops tad and Thaba Ncho districts of the 

Free '' State had acquired their properties from 
white people under the Republican regime, was present 
at the interview and he then bore out our statement : 
thus on May 15, 1914, the Prime Minister and Minister 
of Native Affairs heard for the first time in his life 
that there were some Natives actually living in the 
'*Free" State who pay him quit-rent on farms which 
they had bought from white people under Republican 
rule. 

The assertion that Free State Natives lost 
nothing by the enforcement of the Natives' Land Act 
is but one phase of the maze of ignorance through 
which the Union Government is groping in a hopeless 
attempt to discharge their trust to the native tax- 
payers. \ 

The co-operation of intelligent and responsible 
native taxpayers, which could sweep away these 
administrative cobwebs of ignorance, is always at 
the disposal of the Government if they deigned to avail 
themselves of it ; but they prefer, at enormous cost 
to the taxpayers (including native taxpayers), to 
purchase from the non-native section of the com- 
munity arm-chair views based largely on hearsay 
evidence, which is often tainted by colour prejudice. 
Hence the shroud of ignorance which surrounds the 
native policy of the Union of South Africa. 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 

Of all the characters of cruelty, I consider that as the most odious which 
assumes the garb of mercy. — Fox. 

O N arrival in London the native delegates were 
received by several friends, including Dr. Chas. 
Garnett, M.A., of the Brotherhood League ; Rev. Amos 
Burnet, of Transvaal, introduced them to the Wes- 
leyan Missionary Committee in session at Bishops- 
gate ; the Anti-Slavery and Aborigines Protection 
Society communicated with the Colonial Office re- 
garding an interview. The Colonial Secretary agreed 
to see the deputation on condition that they were 
accompanied by no one from the Society. 

When the native deputation reached England 
there were a number of South African missionaries on 
furlough in England who had taken part in Church 
meetings in Africa, of protest against the Act. Some 
of these gentlemen had witnessed the cruel operations 
of the Act ; but the decision to receive the native 
delegates by themselves meant that no such eye- 
witnesses as these could testify to what they had seen 
of the working of the Act, 

In accordance with the time fixed for the interview, 
the deputation duly waited upon the Secretary pf 
State, whose reply was more fully given in Parliament. 
At the interview he took notes on nothing, and asked 

194 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 195 

no questions. On every point he had ''the assurance 
of General Botha'' to the contrary. 

No headway having been made with the Govern- 
ment, it was resolved upon that the delegates should 
appeal to the British Parliament and thence to the 
British public in terms of the native mandate. 

Later on Messrs. T. Buxton and J. H. Harris, the 
secretaries of the A.S. and A.P.S., arranged a meeting 
for the delegates to meet certain members of Parlia- 
ment. The meeting took place in No. ii Committee 
Room of the House of Commons. The British peerage 
was represented by Lords Emmott and H. Cavendish 
Bentinck. After hearing the delegates and asking them 
questions, the members of Parliament intimated that 
their decision would be arrived at later in the absence 
of visitors. It must be mentioned here that besides 
the above secretaries of the A.S. and A.P.S. there 
were also present at this meeting a few sympathizers 
who were not members of Parliament. They included 
MissS. Colenso of Amersham, and the Rev. Dr. Howie 
of Stirling, and Mrs. Howie, etc. 

By the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Buxton, Mr. and 
Mrs. Cobden Unwin (in conjunction with Mrs. Saul 
Solomon), Lady Scott of Westminster, Mrs. S. J. 
Colenso of Amersham, and Mr. H. E. Wood, J.P., of 
Camberwell (the latter being a prelude to a successful 
meeting of the delegates with the Baptist Council of 
England), Sir Albert Spicer, M.P., and Lady Spicer, 
and Mr. and Mrs. Harris of Dulwich, receptions — 
some of them attended by English and Colonial guests 
— ^held at the residences of the friends named, were 
given in honour of the delegates. 

IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS 

Mr. f. Alden : I wish to bring to the notice of the right hon. Grentle* 
man the question of the native lands in South Africa. I happen to have 
he«i responsible for a Resolution passed unanimously in this House 



196 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA . 


previous to the passing of the Act of Union, and in the discussion which 
took place on that occasion the Under-Secretary of State to the Colonies 
laid it down as one of the duties of the Imperial Parliament to protect 
in every possible way the interests of the Natives in their land, and protect 
their rights and liberties in that respect. If we take away the land from 
the Native we take away his liberty. In reference to the Natives Land 
Act of 1913, 1 want to put two or three points before the right hon. Gentle- 
man. In the Union of South Africa, blacks own about 4,500,000 morgen 
of land, and the whites own fourteen times as much land as the blacks, 
though, of course, they are very much smaller in number. The inequality 
is very noticeable in the Transvaal, where there are 300,000 whites hold- 
ing 31,000,000 morgen of land, and the 1,000,000 Natives only have 500,000 
morgen of land which they can call their own. 

It has been said over and over again in South Africa that this law 
applies equally to Europeans and whites as well as to the Natives. There 
is, they say, no injustice. The European is estopped from this purchase 
of land, just as the Native is estopped. All I can say in answer to that 
is that the fallacy is shown the moment you begin to ask what land the 
Natives have to sell. The native areas are already overcrowded, and 
they positively have no land which they could sell. When once a Native 
leaves his farm or is evicted, or has to quit for any reason whatever, the 
Act does not allow him to purchase, hire or to lease anywhere else for 
farming purposes except from Natives, who have not the land to lease 
or to sell. He therefore must become a servant on the farm. There 
is absolutely nothing else for him to do but to become a servant. This 
Act has already produced very great hardships. It has produced hard- 
ships to the people who were under notice to quit at the time the Act 
was passed, to the people who have actually since then been evicted from 
their farms, to the Natives who were in search of land and who are wan- 
dering about with their families and stock and have nowhere to settle, 
and to the Natives who have had to leave their crops unreaped. There 
are many hundreds of such cases of hardship which have been inflicted 
under the Act which is being enforced on all sides. I do not wish to go 
into this question at very great length, because the right hon. Gentle- 
man knows more about it than anybody in the House in all probability, 
and he knows the difficulties of the situation. 

I want to put before him just one point with regard to what can be 
done. We call ourselves the protectors of the rights of the Natives, and we 
claim that we have always, in season and out of season, insisted that 
those rights should not be infringed, and that no action should be taken 
against their liberties. The Imperial Government cannot, of course, 
intervene in the sense of asking the Government of South Africa either 
to rescind an Act of Parliament or to amend an Act of Parliament, unless 
it is their own wish, but I must point out that Clauses i, 4, and 5 do operate 
most harshly against the Native, and it might be possible, on the represent- 
ation of the right hon. Gentleman, for the Prime Minister of South Africa 
to mitigate the hardships. 

Mr. Cave ; The subject to which the hon. Member has referred is no 
doubt of importance, and no one can quarrel with the tone of the speech 
m which he has introduced it. 

Sir Albert Spicer : I quite realize that in South Africa we have a 
self-governing country, and, therefore, one would be desirous to be very 
careful in what he said with regard to its administration and legislation. 
But this, at any rate, is the right place to express the views that are field 
by very large numbers of people in this country, who have devoted a 
good deal of time and money in doing what they can to educate and uplift 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 197 


the native races of South Africa. Those of us who know South Africa, 
are perfectly well aware that whilst it is now a country owned by the 
white races, it can only be properly and fully developed with the help of 
the native races, and the better educated they are, the better work they 
will be able to do for South Africa. This Native Lands Act was passed 
very hurriedly. Of course, we cannot blame South Africa for passing 
fegislation hastily, seeing that we are accustomed sometimes to do the 
same thing in the Mother of Parliaments. Again, the appointment of 
the Commission, which is now inquiring into the subject. and is taking 
evidence, is helping, I think, to produce injustice in some cases, so far as 
the Natives are concerned, because the introduction of the Lands Act has 
led farmers to take action to enforce their rights. They have terminated 
the rent-paying agreements of former tenants, and^ knowing that these 
are precluded from making new agreements for the hire of land, they have 
either ejected them or have demanded from them three months' unpaid 
service per annum, which has had the indirect effect of reducing a free 
people to a condition of service. I could give instances of that from well 
authenticated sources. I will refer to one only. It is the case of a chief 
and his people living on land which they and their fathers have dwelt 
upon for eight generations. The farm was recently purchased by a farmer 
resident in another province. He decided to terminate the rent-paying 
conditions previously in existence between the former owner and the 
Natives, and to substitute labour conditions, under which even the chief, 
an old man, has been required to give service. The people were called 
upon to quit their houses, square buildings, timbered and thatched, and 
in connexion with this the owner gave less than one month's notice in 
the following terms : — 

" This is to notify I can let you have the school building no longer. I 
bought the farm and wish to receive the same at the end of your school 
quarter." 

We desire to speak with all due respect of the self-governing Dominions 
of South Africa, but I think we may fairly ask the Colonial Secretary to 
help the Union Government to realize that there is a strong feeling in 
this country in favour of everything possible being done to secure just 
and reasonable treatment for the Natives. One may fairly ask the right 
hon. Gentleman to use all reasonable influence with the Union Government 
to secure for the Natives a fair quid -pro quo for the loss of their former 
rights of land purchase, which would mean in some cases an extension 
of the native area, and if it were possible to suspend to some extent the 
operation of the Act until the Land Commission has reported. Having 
been connected with South Africa for a good many years, having travelled 
through it, and given a good deal of time to it, I desire to do what I can 
for the uplifting of the people of that country, and that is my reason for 
intervening in this Debate. 

Other S5mipathizers, including the Member for 
Woolwich, rose in different parts of the House to 
support the foregoing appeal, but the Colonial Secretary 
stopped them by delivering his reply. 

The Rt. Hon. L. Har court : The hon. member for Tottenham (Atr 
Aldeit) and the hon. Baronet the Member for Hackney (Sir A. Spicer 
have drawn attention to the South Africa Land Act. It ig not a tudden 



igS NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA . 


in^iration of the Botha Government. It is the outcome and result of 
a Commission appointed by Lord Milner some years ago, presided over 
by Sir Godfrey Lagden. The Commission was appointed 

" In view of the possible federation of the South African Colonies to 
gather accurate information as to native affairs so as to arrive at a 
common understanding on questions of native policy." 

That Commission sat for two years. It had upon it representatives of 
every colony and territory. It arrived at what I believe was a unanimous (sic) 
report.^ and this Act is practically doing no more than carrying out its 
recommendations. The Act has already been in operation for twelve 
months. The Commission of Inquiry, which was to be instituted under 
the Act, is now sitting. It is bound by the terms of its appointment to 
report within two years, and will probably report by Christmas next.* 
The whole of this Act is a temporary measure until that Commission 
reports. A native deputation has come over and seen me, and I believe 
many other members. That deputation left Africa against the advice 
of General Botha, and against almost the entreaties of Lord Gladstone. 
They knew that the Act would not be disallowed, because it had been an- 
nounced months before in South Africa. The day the deputation saw 
me the period of twelve months during which that Act could be disallowed 
on my recommendation had already expired, and it is now an act which 
can only be suspended by the Government and Parliament of the Union 
of South Africa. 

Sir W. Byles : Does it forbid the holding of land by Natives ? 

Mr. Harcourt : Perhaps the hon. member will allow me to complete 
my statement as the time is short.* The suspension of the Act would be 
worse than useless at the present stage. It would suspend the Inquiry 
which is taking place at this moment in the interests of the Natives them- 
selves. I cannot believe that any further Commission is necessary, as 
the existing one seems to me both efficient and sufficient. 

It is not clear why Mr. Harcourt made this statement 
as the Natives, in their petition to the King, never 
asked for a suspension of the whole Act. All that 
they wished was that the harshest clauses of the 
measure might be suspended, leaving the others in 
operation until the Commission rendered its report. 

When Mr. HarcourCs reference to the Commission 
was made known in South Africa the Commissioners, 
then sitting in Pretoria, were informed of the plight of 
evicted Natives. The Commissioners rephed that any 


^ Col. Stanford (the Cape Colony representative on the Lagden Com- 
mission) and Messrs Campbell and Samuelson (the Natal representatives) 
sent in two strongly-worded minority reports against such restrictions. 
Vide S.A. Native Affairs Commission, 1903-5, Vol. 1 . — Author. 

• After Christmas the Commissioners' " terms of appointment " were 
altered from two years to three years. 

* Mr. Harcourt would have shortened the time considerably, had he 
said " Yes " or " No," instead of replying in sixteen words. 



ABPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 199 


grievance arising out of the operation of an Act of 
Parliament was beyond the scope of their enquiry, and 
that they could not consider such grievances. This 
was exactly what they had previously told the Natives 
at King Williamstown and elsewhere. At Harrismith 
the Commission heard the complaint of a son of 
Chief Wietzie, who, during the Basuto wars, had 
always remained loyal to the " Free '' State Boers. 
The son had been evicted from the ground on which 
he and his fellow- tribesmen had resided for generations 
and he was forced to live on an urban location 
where it is impossible to do any farming. The Presi- 
dent (Sir William Beaumont) said he was sorry to 
hear that a son of Wietzie found himself homeless, 
but he regretted that the Commission could not help 
him. Mr. Harcourt, therefore, must have been incor- 
rectly informed regarding the functions of the Com- 
mission. 

Yet another puzzle. After the appointment of this 
Commission in September 1913, there was a newspaper 
report to the effect that the Commission found the 
native difficulty most acute in the '' Free State, and 
that it had decided on setting aside without delay a 
strip of territory in the Western " Free '' State as a 
native settlement. Immediately after the appearance 
of this report in the Press, angry meetings of the whites 
were held in Boshof and Hoopstad to protest against 
the proposals attributed to the Commission. In reply 
to these protests, Mr. Theron, the Minister of Lands, 
evidently speaking on behalf of the South African 
Government, not only repudiated the report but he 
also added significantly that ** the Government had 
no intention of creating a native area in Hoopstad or 
anywhere else.*' So, where do we stand ? Can it 
be wondered that the Natives are beginning to con- 
clude that their position under the Union is hopeless ? 



200 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

But, to return to Mr. Harcourt, the Colonial Secre- 
tary also gave the Imperial Parliament a fresh ex- 
planation of the Natives' Land Act. It is a pity that 
we cannot reproduce his explanation side by side with 
the four explanatory circulars issued by the Union 
Government in 1913. Such a reproduction would 
show the discrepancy between the five explanations. 
We wrote to South Africa but could only secure one 
of these circulars, which purports to be an explanation 
of a previous explanatory circular — an explanation 
of an explanation. However, the definition of the 
Act, as given by the other three circulars, leaves, as 
far as we caii remember, the root principle of the Act 
unexplained. Moreover, the statements set forth in 
these circulars are not in harmony ; they have only 
one point of agreement, 'namely : that when Natives 
are driven out of their homes by the law, and are 
debarred by the same law from establishing other 
homes (the only provision made for them being that 
they should live as servants of the whites) the circum- 
stances give them no ground for complaint. 

Take for instance only two sentences in Mr. Har- 
court's explanation. In the first of these, he appears 
to approve of the system of forced labour established 
by the Act ; in the second, he denies the evictions that 
took place in July when he spoke, and those that took 
place subsequently. He seems to flatly deny not only 
what is admitted by Lord Gladstone and General 
Botha, but he likewise contradicts the terms of the 
Act itself. Indeed, if we had not been there and heard 
him we should have felt, on reading this part of his 
speech, that he had been misreported in Hansard. 
Thus — 


If the Natives are farm labourers there is no limit to the number who 
may reside on white property. If not, they are not dispowe^cd until 



AHPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 201 


Parliament acts upon the report of the Commissioners, and then only 
when suitable land is provided by addition to a native reserve.^ 

The Imperial explanation being as obscure as the 
Colonial explanations which preceded it, the reader's 
remedy is to fall back on the plain English of the 
Act (Chapter III), which alone has the force of law. 
Again Mr. Harcourt : — 

If General Botha breaks his word I have no power to enforce it. I 
cannot bind his successors. If the Government of South Africa is not 
to be trusted in this matter they are to be trusted in nothing ; and we 
know perfectly well that they can be trusted in these matters. Note 
what has been done with respect to the Indian Immigration Act, This was 
passed not from local desire, hut from Imperial considerations. The pro- 
visions of that Act have been accepted by the Colonists and by the represent- 
atives of the Indians, who consider it the Magna Charta of the Indians in 
South Africa. I think that that should be a sufficient guarantee as to the 
^ay in which General Botha proposes to act. General Botha, too, used 
these words in Parliament : — 

" He had told the deputation that h« had given standing instructions 
to the magistrates throughout the country that if they found any one in 
their districts ejecting Natives from the farms they had to go and make 
inquiries and report to him. He had in all those cases which had been 
brought to his notice used the influence of his Department." 

All we can say in regard to these words " is tha't 
the Magistrates apparently ignored the '' standing 
instructions" alluded to, for they allowed the officials 
of the Department of Lands to scatter the native 
tenants from Government farms at Standerton, 
Colworth and elsewhere and sent them adrift over the 
country, well knowing that they could find no other 
shelter. 

On the 31st of January, 1914, the Magistrate of 
Ladysmith, presumably acting under instructions 
from one of General Botha's Departments, issued the 
following notice to 79 native families in his district : — 

"To Vellem Sibisi, Kraal Head residing on one of the following farms, 
viz. Remainder of Brakfontein, Remainder of Weltevrede, etc., 

"Take notice in terms of Section 4 of Law 41 of 1 884 that you are required 
to remove with your Kraal and inmates from whichever of the said farms 


^ At Downing Street Mr. Harcourt informed the Deputation that he 
had the " assurance of General Botha " that the Natives have too much 
land already. 



202 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA. 

you may be residing on, six months from this date, the aforementioned 
farms having all been purchased by Government for closer settlement 
purposes." 

The Magistrate who so ruthlessly ejected these and 
other native families acted under the orders of the 
Government, who settled white people on the farms 
at the expense of a Treasury maintained also by 
native taxpayers. And it seems difficult to conceive 
how a Government which proved so indifferent re- 
garding the fate of its own native tenants or of tenants 
on farms freshly acquired at the public expense, 
could be solicitous about the welfare of Natives evicted 
by private landowners. The statement, on the face 
of it, is incongruous. 

In his heroic efforts to defend South Africa's giant 
wrong, Mr. Harcourt gave away his case when he 
referred approvingly to what he calls the Magna 
Charta of the Indians in South Africa." Now, what 
is this " Magna Charta " ? In 1913, when the South 
African Parliament was at the noontide of its ''mad 
career," it passed this iniquitous land law to repress the 
native race ; and also a law imposing the most humilia- 
ting limitations on British Indians. Yet it must be 
added that the Indian law was the milder of the two, 
as it did not prohibit Indian residents in South Africa 
from living on the land. The Rt. Hon. A. Fischer, Union 
Minister of the Interior, who died two years ago, 
called these two laws of 1913, '' the Kafir law and the 
Coolie law." 

As already stated, the London Committee of the 
Wesleyan Methodist Church asked to see Mr. Har- 
court and inform him how drastically the Kafir 
law " was operating against their converts and other 
Natives in South Africa, but Mr. Harcourt discreetly 
refused to see the Committee. 

As for the Indians, no one in South Afridc^ paid 
any heed to their complaints against the '' Coolie 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 203 

law '' ; but their cry reached India and Lord Hardinge 
demanded the redress of their grievances. His Lord- 
ship insisted so forcibly that (unlike the Wesleyan 
missionaries) he could not be ignored. The result was 
that the South African Parliament, not from local 
desire, but from Imperial consideration,'' was obliged 
in the next session (1914) to amend the '' Coolie law " 
with a Magna Charta of the Indians in South Africa," 
and Mr. Harcourt's reference to this episode conveys 
the suggestion that what is sauce for the Indian goose, 
with Lord Hardinge at its back, can be by no means 
sauce for the native gander without the backing of a 
Viceroy. 

We cannot believe that to boast in one and the same 
speech about a " Magna Ch-irta of the Indians " 
and dismiss the native appeal against a vital wrong is 
true Imperialism. For if Imperialism stands for the 
protection of a few thousand Indians in South Africa 
because they are supported by a Viceroy, and the 
neglect of the groans of five million Natives because 
(unlike a Viceroy) the missionaries who plead for 
them cannot enforce their claim with a political or 
diplomatic blow, then there would appear to be the 
suggestion of more fear than justice in Imperialism. 

Mr. Harcourt further credits the Milner Commission, 
presided over by Sir Godfrey Lagden, with the origin 
of the Natives' Land Act. We do not wish to defend 
the policy of these two former South African States- 
men, as we feel certain that they can take care of 
themselves. But we must say at once that we read the 
recommendations of the Lagden Commission ten years 
ago, as carefully as we have since read the controversy 
of the Natives' Land Act ; and with the knowledge 
thus gained, we can safely tell the reader that that 
Commission never recommended that : — 

I. Except with the permission of the Governor- 



204 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA • 

General/' Europeans must be debarred from buying 
land from Natives (who have no land to sell), and 
Natives must be debarred from buying land or leasing 
land from Europeans, who alone deal inland. — (Sect, i 
of the Nat. Land Act). 

2. When evicted Natives apply for the said '' per- 
mission of the Governor-General " they should be 
told that that permission '' will only be granted to a 
few exceptional applicants " and that it could under 
no circumstances be granted to Natives in the colony 
in which the applicants resided (The Government's 
reply to the '' Free " State wanderers). 

3. The Government should always take from three 
to six months to deliver this refusal, during which 
period applicants may^have already become serfs or 
fled the country. (This has been the experience of all 
applicants within the writer's knowledge.) 

4. There should be a fine of £100 or six months' 
hard labour on any farmer who provides the Native 
with a shelter while he is waiting for this disappointing 
reply to his application (Sect. 5 Nat. Land Act). 

5. Native tenants to be hounded out of the Govern- 
ment farms long before the segregation takes place and 
that white people, who are not debarred from buying 
or leasing land for themselves, be settled thereon at 
Government expense. (See magisterial notice above.) 

If Mr. Harcourt has been told by any one that the 
Lagden Commission recommended any of these pitiless 
iniquities, then we are afraid that his informer is a 
romancer of the superlative degree. The Lagden 
report was never discussed in any South African 
legislature, much less adopted by any Parliament in 
South Africa ; indeed, it is detested because it recom- 
mended a Native Franchise for South Africa like the 
Maori Franchise of New Zealand. 

One member of Parliament (Mr. Joynson-Hicks) said 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 205 


South Africa was a Home Rule country and he won- 
dered what would happen if after Home Rule had 
been granted to Ireland some one asked the Imperial 
Parliament to interfere with Irish legislation. 

We wonder who could have told this hon. Member 
that there was Home Rule in South Africa ! There 
used to be Home Rule in the Cape Colony alone, but 
this has been swamped by the Act of Union, which 
has since established an oligarchic Government through- 
out the country. And if by Home Rule to Ireland 
it is intended to give the franchise to a selfish, greedy 
and t}n'annical few ; and give carte hlanche to this 
few, telling them thereby to do what they wish with 
the rest of the population of Ireland, and telling them 
further that they will be acceroitable to nobody for 
any good legislation that they might enact on the one 
hand, or any maladministration that they might 
perform on the other hand as is the case in South 
Africa — ^if that be what is meant by Home Rule for 
Ireland, then God have mercy on the Irish. 

When the reply of Mr. Harcourt was published in 
South Africa, supporters of this cruel law bubbled over 
with joy concerning it. One Dutch writer, after 
saying in a Dutch journal some very fine things about 
Mr. Harcourt, wound up a high-sounding eiilogy by 
congratulating South Africa on having such a good 
Colonial Secretary at Downing Street. Had Mr. 
Harcourt's predecessors been like him,'' said this 
writer to his readers, '' South Africa would have been 
saved many tears." We doubt if Mr. Harcourt, the 
object of this appreciation, would feel flattered by it 
if lie knew that all the black victims of this cruel law, 
and all their European sympathizers, stood firmly 
by the Imperial Government and by the Colonial 
Government in the present struggle, while the gentle- 
man at whose instance it was introduced in Parlia- 



2o6 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


ment, as well as the Dutch editor of the journal 
alluded to, are at present (May 1915) committed 
for trial on charges of high treason ; and the pro- 
prietor of another Dutch journal, in which we 
read similar vaunting adulations of Mr. Harcourt, 
was fined ;^6o (so his paper says) for alleged com- 
plicity in the recent rebellion. These facts should 
impel the Rt. Hon. the Colonial Secretary to stop, 
look round and inquire who's who " among his 
South African admirers. 

Two members of the South African Parliament — 
Senator T. L. Schreiner and Mr. Wilcocks, M.L.A. — 
the former an opponent and the latter a supporter 
of the Natives' Land Act, recently discussed the 
Act from separate of view ; and both came 

to the conclusion that the measure was designed to 
keep the blacks in subjection. This conclusion is in 
harmony with the bitter experiences of the native 
races since this Act was enforced. Yet in the face of 
this unanimous testimony of different observers, Mr. 
Harcourt equivocates behind the irrelevant assurances 
of General Botha " about a possible segregation, 
which question is not now before the country. Assur- 
ances on segregation only serve to confound the issue. 
If the Beaumont commission, or its successor, should 
ever report then the question of segregation may 
come before Parliament some time in 1926. The 
point before the country now is not segregation, but 
the Natives' Land Act of 1913, which is now scattering 
the Natives about the country. That is the measure 
against which the Native appeals for Imperial protec- 
tion. Not the future segregation. 

The only serious objection with which Mr. Harcourt 
apparently was able to charge the native deputation, 
and one which the Natives do not deny, is that they 
came to England against the ''entreaties of Lord 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 207 


Gladstone '' (who previously had twice refused to see 
them), and against the advice of General Botha,'' 
by whose Cabinet the measure was enacted and en- 
forced. 

It is a pity that Mr. Harcourt did not at the same 
time tell the House of an authentic case where an 
aggrieved party ever sued for redress with the consent 
and advice of his oppressor. In this connexion, 
the scope of our reading being limited, our ignorance 
is possibly abysmal ; but it must be confessed that 
we have never heard of such an interesting appellant 
and we are inclined to believe that there never has 
been one. 

If General Botha wished to tell the whole truth, 
instead of making vague ass\iK.*emces to Mr. Harcourt, 
he would say : "I foresaw all the difficulties under 
which the Natives are suffering ; and when Mr. Grobler 
proposed the summary stoppage of the sale and lease 
of land to Natives before the areas are segregated, I 
warned the House against this trouble, but the Hert- 
zogites being too much for me I had to give in." Gen. 
Botha could go further and say to Mr. Harcourt : 

If you will turn up page 579 of the South African 
Hansard (first column) reading from the top of the 
page, you will find my warning in these words : — 

Unless they went slowly and carefully, there was a danger that they 
might take steps which would be unreasonable, unjust, and unfair on one 
section. For that reason, he regretted the amendment proposed by 
General Hertzog, because the amendment would have bad results if it 
were accepted. It would lead to an over-hasty measure of a most im- 
practicable kind. This House would have to demarcate exactly and 
immediately those parts where the Natives would have to live, and he 
asked them *. was this House able to do so ? (Cries of " No.") It was 
all very nice to talk and take a map and draw lines on it. On the map 
they might be able to beacon off parts, and say, " This is for the Natives," 
but then, when they put their scheme into effect, they might find that 
the ground of many individuals had been taken away without any in- 
quiries or any investigations having been made. (Laughter, and " Hear 
pear,") This House would expropriate the rights of many white people, 
and they would meet with the greatest ©position. Where were they 
going to put these people then ? In the Transvaal, farmers certainly 



3o8 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


would not consent to this ; he did not know the people of the Free State 
so well, but he doubted whether they would a^ee. (A Free State Member : 

No, they certainly will not.") Instead of taking any steps like this, 
they should be practical, and not land themselves into ^eater difficulties 
than they could help. Governments before them had done their best. 
He agreed that the squatting of Natives should be put an end to as soon 
as possible, but they should not lose sight of the fact that many Govern- 
ments before them had done their best to put an end to this squatting 
evil. He knew well how the Transvaal Government had, year after yeat, 
taken up this matter. But what did they find ? Simply that when they 
had passed a Squatters Law they could only put it into operation in one 
small part of the country. (Hear, hear.) To introduce another Bill like 
that would simply mean deceiving the country — (hear, hear) — and the 
Natives. If they accepted the proposal of the Minister of Native Affairs 
to appoint a Commission to investigate the various conditions prevailing 
throughout the country, he thought they would be taking a step in the 
right direction. (Hear, hear.) However, care was essential, because 
they must prevent causing a sort of revolution through the country. 
What they wanted was a measure which would be acceptable to the white 
man as well as to the Native. (Hear, hear.) 


These were GeneraU^ptha's views when the Land 
Act was first mooted, but in defiance of his solemn 
warning, the Bill, when gazetted, provided that the evic- 
tion of native tenants should precede the Commission's 
inquiry; harsher and still harsher clauses were inserted 
in the Bill until the Act finally embodied all the pro- 
posals brought forward by General Hertzog. The 
promise to refer the Bill to a Select Committee was also 
broken, presumably as a result of pressure from the 
caucus. The Government could not face a Select 
Committee after this complete change of front as they 
must have known that reason was absolutely against 
them. 

It might be asked : How could a Minister turn 
round afterwards and give '' assurances concerning 
the benefits of a measure which he had opposed before ? 
To such a question we would hazard the following 
explanation : Our Prime Minister, on the one hand, 
is a British Privy Councillor and a General in the 
British Army ; and, on the other hand, he is a simple 
Afrikander Boer, who only speaks Dutch in Parlia- 
ment and addresses English audiences through an 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 209 


interpreter. And so in the eyes of General Botha, 
the British Crown Minister, if the Natives be treated" 
justly, as British subjects should be treated, it is 
right ; and, again, in the eyes of General Botha, the 
Afrikander Boer, if the Natives be treated harshly and 
barbarously, that too is right. 

It is not unusual to find these two natures contend- 
ing against each other in one and the same person, 
whenever the Prime Minister deals with native ques- 
tions ; then more often than not the Boer view, 
being that of his own nature, dominates the British 
sentiment, which is a fresh acquisition. 

Having given above a striking extract from a speech 
on native policy, by the Rt. Hon. Louis Botha, Premier 
of British South Africa, we wilJ^tow proceed to give an 
extract from another declaration by General Louis 
Botha, the Transvaal Boer. The Union Premier 
was giving evidence before the Labour Commission 
in Johannesburg and this is what he then said : — 

11,302. Sir George Farrar : You said that you would recommend 
the breaking up of Locations like Swaziland, Zululand and Basutoland 
and the putting of white settlers there ? General Botha : I would sug- 
gest that these countries be given up to the white people to live in. . . 

ii>337* The general tenor of your remarks is that there is sufificient 
labour, and it only wants a little patience to wait for it, that is all ? I 
have distinctly stated that there is a greater amount of labour than has 
at present been obtained. But there are farmers who have farms, and 
have no Natives living on these farms. For these people it is difficult 
to obtain Natives because the Natives who are not living on the farms 
are in locations. If the locations were broken up the Natives would be 
made to live on farms. 

11,338. You suggest that we should break up such land as Basutoland, 
Swaziland and Zululand ? Yes, I say that such places are a source of 
evil. It is building up a Kaffir kingdom in the midst of us which is not 
only bad for the Kaffirs themselves but is a danger in the future.^ 

ii>339- l^^ike Zululand, for instance ; there is a quarter of a million 
people there. What would you do with them if you break up their terri- 
tory ? They would all live on the farms as the white people are doing now. 

11,340. Oh, you want to cut up the land into farms, give it to the 
white people and retain the Kaffirs on the farms ? Yes. 

11,343. But what will the white people do with the Kaffirs, pay them 
wages or charge them rent for the ground or what ? My opinion is thab 

* One of the Chiefs in these locations gave General Botha 200 bullock i 
to feed his troops engaged in crushing a rebellion of white men. 




210 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Kaffirs who now live in locations should work for the white people, and 
the land should be exploited. The white people would pay them for 
the work they did and this would civilize them, 

11.344. A nation like the Basutos you would deal with in the same 
way ? — Yes. 

11.345. They at present occupy the land, we have had it in evidence 
before us to the effect that every inch of land in Basutoland is occupied 
and worked by the Kaffirs themselves as their own property ? — That 
is just my argument . . . because there is opening for the Kaffirs there 
they go and live there without doing anything. 

11,347. But they do something. They work the whole country, they 
have a lot of grain ? — Yes, for themselves. 

11,352 ... I have shown you that Basutoland is fully occupied by 
Kaffirs, and they work it. Do you want to apply your scheme to Basuto- 
land ? — I do not know very much about Basutoland, I have never been 
there personally ; but I am well acquainted with Zululand and also 
Swaziland, and I want to state this, that in my opinion it is not only a 
wrong policy, but also dangerous policy to have large tracts of country 
inhabitated by uncivilized races, and to keep them there on the present 
terms. 

n,353. But these Natives lived there from time immemorial. It 
was theirs before we came here. How can we drive them off the land 
now, and take it for ourselvajh,^^ I think we are feeling very happy that 
we drove them from Johannesburg in the olden days. They lived in this 
country too just the same and the Kaffirs who became civilized under 
us have improved.^ 

In the foregoing extract the reader has the root 
principle of the Natives' Land Act in a nut-shell. 
Not from hearsay assurances " but from what fell 
from the Premier's own lips. 

Mr. Jacob de Villiers Roos, head of the Union 
Law Department (who knows more about South 
African law than outsiders who have to rely on 
assurances,") says in his evidence given before the 
Select Committee on Public Accounts, February 25, 
1914, incidentally or accidentally : — 

" A circular was issued by our Department, at the instigation of the 
Native Affairs Department, asking that prosecutors under the Natives' 
Land Act, before commencing prosecutions, should refer to the Native 
Affairs Dep^tment as otherwise it was feared that an upheaval might re- 
sult. The Transvaal Attorney-General drew our attention to this circular 
and said that it was an infringement of his powers. . . When Mr. Beyers 
went away on leave Mr. Greenlees was appointed Acting Attorney-General, 
and he first drew the attention of the Minister to it. The Minister took 
no action until Mr. Beyers returned when the matter was again raised 
and then this circular was withdrawn." * 


^ Transvaal Labour CommissioUt pp. 717-726. 
» S.C. pp. 136-137. 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTION 211 

Now, what, in the name of common sense, does a 
supposedly civilized Government want with a law that 
it knows will cause an upheaval ? 

This Act should be abolished in the^ interest of the 
morality of the State and for the sake of the reputation 
of the Union Jack, because of the harm it does to the 
Natives and because its promoters have rebelled 
against the Crown. The Act has benefited no one ; 
it has driven the Natives from t!he country to the 
cities, and has also disappointed the White Labour 
Party, who supported it in the belief that by its clause 
forcing Natives to work for white farmers it would 
keep the Natives away from the industrial centres. 

It should be abolished in the interests of the Boers, 
for it has aroused the bitterest -enmity of the blacks 
against the Dutch section of his Majesty's subjects. 

Further, the Act should be abolished because it 
has lowered the prestige of the Union Jack in the eyes 
of the coloured subjects of the King, who have suffered 
and are still suffering untold misery under it. Per- 
haps nothing illustrates more clearly this changed 
feeling of the Natives than the present state of things 
in South Africa. Thus, if German South-West Africa 
had been annexed to the Cape before the Union, every 
Native, south of the Zambesi, would have approved 
of the step, whereas to-day, as a result of the Natives' 
Land Act, there is a different feeling extant. For now 
the Natives know that annexation to the Union will 
mean the elimination of the Imperial factor, and 
that as Capetown, like Pretoria, has ceased to represent 
British ideas of fair play and justice, such a change 
would in the annexed territory establish '' Free " 
State ideals under the aegis of the Union Jack. The 
Natives of the Union shudder at the possibility of the 
Damaras, who are now under the harsh rule of the 
Germans, being placed under a self-governing Dominion 



212 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA' 


in which the German rule will be accentuated by the 
truculent '' Free " State ideas of ruling Natives. 
And they think that in the existing state of circum- 
stances, Portuguese or French rule would be infinitely 
better for the Damaras than a Government which, 
although protected by the Union Jack, yet is inspired 
from Pretoria and Bloemfontein. And it is to be 
feared that the pernicious principles which Tommy 
Atkins is now fighting on the Continent to suppress, 
are going to be rigorously applied in a South-West 
Africa under Burgher rule. The prosperity of no 
State can afford to alienate the sympathy of any 
considerable portion of its tax-payers. And so, as 
5,000,000 blacks have been alienated in their sym- 
pathies to the Unioir^Dy this oppressive law, and as 
the Union Government is unable or unwilling to amend 
it, in the interest of the Union Government, no less 
than the 5,000,000 blacks, outside intervention becomes 
a necessity. 

During three separate white men's upheavals in 
the last two years — ^two bloody strikes and a civil war — 
white revolters made frantic efforts to embroil the 
Union in a native rising, but the Natives very sensibly 
sided with the Government. The native leaders, 
in order to counteract this mischief-making, had to 
incur the expense of journeys by rail besides financing 
their own mission to reach the scene of the would-be 
native disturbance. 

The time will come when these leaders will tire of 
spending their own money in paying fares to the 
Government Railways, to render free services to a 
Government which taxes them to pay other people 
lavishly for similar work, while it does not even tender 
them so much as a word of thanks. 

Instead of the smallest recognition for our volun* 
tary services, the Union Government repays our 



APPEAL FOR IMPERIAL PROTECTIO^I 213 

loyalty by persecuting our widows and fatherless 
children with the cold-blooded provisions of the 
Natives' Land Act. These cruelties are euphemistic- 
ally described as the first step towards the segregation 
of white and black, but they might more truthfully 
be styled the first steps towards the extermination 
of the blacks. 

When the war broke out, the Government promptly 
suspended the inquiries of the Commission, whose 
report is naively alleged to be pregnant with the fruits 
of the millennium, but the cruel evictions under the 
same law of the rebel Grobler are pursuing their 
course while the war lasts and the Union Government 
remains unconcerned. It was only when a whole 
tribe was evicted during the \yar that the Government 
interceded on behalf of the victims, but then, the only 
extent of the intervention has been to secure exemption 
for the chief of the tribe alone, on the condition that he 
forced the rest of his tribe to render every year three months' 
labour to the landowner. Yet these people could live 
happily on some other farm did not the Government 
prohibit their happiness at the behest of a rebel who, 
at or about the time of this enthralling compromise, 
was conducting treasonable operations against the 
Government. 

The sublime ingratitude of the Union Government 
is wellnigh unbearable I 



CHAPTER XVII 

THE LONDON PRESS AND THE LAND ACT 

Slaves cannot breathe in England : if their lungs 
Receive our air, that moment they are free ; 

They touch our country, and their shackles fall. 

COWPER. 

T he native dep^ation (thanks to Mr. H. Cornish, 
secretary of the "Institute of Journalists) can 
truthfully assure their people, at the present critical 
state of their position, of the sympathy of the London 
Press. It is hardly necessary to mention that religious 
papers, to which the object of the deputation was 
made known, published some very encouraging articles 
on the same, and bespoke the deputation a cordial 
reception and a sympathetic hearing throughout the 
United Kingdom ; but the mission might have been 
somewhat monotonous had we friends only and no 
enemies in the London Press. And a weekly paper 
with a yellow cover, called South Africa, did its best 
to fill the role of an enemy. 

It abused the Brotherhood Movement and the 
Aborigines Protection Society for taking up the cause 
of the deputation. The General Press Cutting Associa- 
tion, however, through whom we learnt of the attacks 
of South Africa, did not tell us whether this journal 
also abused our other friends represented by the London 
Press. Such has been our good fortune in this respect 
that friends frequently congratulated us on the unanim- 

214 



LONDON PRESS AND THE LAND ACT 215 


ity of the Press in our favour. In this we think they 
were right, as a cause with only one enemy could very 
well be depended on to take care of itself. 

On one occasion some of our friends heard that the 
author was going to interview the fine-fingered editor 
of the Westminster Gazette by appointment, and they 
strongly advised us against doing so. '' Why not ? we 
asked. '' Oh,'' said our friends, '' he edits the leading 
Government organ, and he is going to pump you of 
all information in order to use it against your cause 
and in favour of the Government." But we went — 
firstly, because we refused to believe that the editor 
of that great organ of British thought was capable of 
taking such a mean advantage of us ; and secondly, 
because we were confident of being able to take care 
of ourselves against any kiitd of pump ; and we can 
now say with satisfaction that, on the part of the 
British public, there was such a demand for back 
numbers of the two editions of the Westminster Gazette 
which contained a report of our interview and a photo- 
graph of the deputation that in a fortnight both 
issues were sold out of print. Further, it is safe to say 
that from the wide area from which inquirers wrote 
to us mentioning the Daily News, it would seem that 
either that journal has a very big circulation or its 
readers are mainly interested in South African Affairs. 
And what, may be asked, are the qualifications of the 
newspaper South Africa which attempted to run 
counter to this overwhelming opinion in our favour ? 

Unlike some of its contemporaries. South Africa 
has not a single native contributor to its columns. 
Some London newspapers are in regular receipt of ex- 
change copies from native newspapers published in 
South Africa, London papers which never claimed a 
monopoly over South African thought ; yet here is 
a paper, South African in title and in pretensions, 



2i6 native life in SOUTH AFRICA# 

which cannot even boast of a South African native 
paper on its exchange list ! What information, then, 
(ian the editors of such an exclusive London paper 
possess about an Act specifically enacted to operate 
against Natives ? Logically, they would know abso- 
lutely less than next to nothing about such a law or 
its fell work. That alone should dispose of the quali- 
fications of this enemy of the deputation, and his 
authority to speak on the subject of its mission. 

The African World is an Anglo- African weekly which 
has native newspaper exchanges and several African 
correspondents both white and black. Its editor-in- 
chief was born in South Africa and was a journalist 
there before he came to reside in England ; and it 
must be admitted that a paper with such connexions 
is in a better position id discuss the subject from 
both points of view. And so the African World szys ; 

The South African Native Deputation 

It must be admitted that the South African Native Deputation now 
in this country have gone about their business with decorum. They 
have not pressed themselves forward unduly, and, so far, the publicity 
given to them has been moderate in its tone, and the expressions by the 
members of the deputation have been equally moderate. Of course, 
their best friends discountenanced this visit, as we have noted from 
the South African Press, but it seems to be the general opinion that even 
though no appeal lies under the Union Constitution to the British Crown 
as regards native rights, an extraordinary anomaly seems to exist in 
this : That the Natives of South Africa within the Union appear to 
have fewer rights than those outside the Union, especially so far as an 
appeal to London on various matters affecting their interests is concerned. 
We are aware that Mr. Harcourt treated the deputation with the utmost 
discretion when he received them. We also know that Mr. Hartcourt 
and General Botha are on very friendly personal relations, and under 
these circumstances, without wishing to dictate any action in the matter 
to the powers that be on both sides of the water, we would like to join 
our contemporary The Globe. 

And what did The Globe say ? 

The Native Appeal'' 

The complaint of the South African Natives who have laid their 
grievances before certain members of Parliament amounts in effect to a 
complaint that Parliament is not Imperial. Their grievances are real 



LONDON PRESS AND THE LAND ACT 217 


and pressing, as anybody can discover who troubles to look up the recent 
proceedings of the Union Parliament, but they have no constitutional 
means of ventilating them. No native franchise exists in South Africa, 
and although certain members of the Union Senate are presumed to keep 
an eye on native questions their influence has proved ineffective. No 
appeal exists under the Union Constitution to the Crown as regards Native 
rights, for although this omission was pointed out at the time the Act 
of Union was debated in the Imperial Parliament and was adversely 
commented on, no steps were taken by the Colonial Office to rectify the 
constitution in this respect. We are, therefore, brought up against the 
extraordinary anomaly that Natives of South Africa within the Union 
have fewer rights than those outside — for the Basutos, who remain under 
direct Imperial control, have successfully appealed to London on various 
matters affecting their interests — or even than the Natives of Crown 
Colonies elsewhere, as the appeal of native landowners on the Gold Coast 
against recent legislation in that territory attests. In the latter case the 
appeal to the Colonial Office was successful in modifying the offending 
enactments ; in the far more serious ^ievances of the South African 
Natives the Colonial Office has no constitutional title whatever. Never- 
theless the relations between Mr. Harcourt and General Botha in other 
respects are notoriously so close and confidential that we may hope the 
Colonial Secretary will take the present occasion by the hand and urge 
upon the head of the South African Government the wisdom of dealing 
with native discontents in his own pcoper'^phere befofS^he prosecutes 
his claim for the inclusion of the Basutos and Rhodesia in the Union — a 
claim which both the black Natives and the white colonists have repu- 
diated with all the emphasis at their command. General Botha could 
scarcely fail to give heed to private advice from the Colonial Office. In 
the case of the Natal Indians, whose ^ievances he recently redressed, 
he proved himself a man capable of taking a broad and generous view of 
a difficult question. There is no reason to anticipate until the contrary 
is proved, that he will fall below his own level in the present not less difficult 
or dangerous case. 

Views of the Daily News 

" The South African National Congress, after resorting to every con- 
stitutional means of pressing their case against the Land Act on the 
Union Government, have sent five of their number to London in the finiL 
conviction that the King of England, to whom they look as their natural 
defender and vindicator, will turn no deaf ear to their pleas. Two of 
the five — the Rev. J . L. Dube and Mr. Saul Msane — are Zulus ; Dr. 
Rubusana is a Xosa ; Mr. Mapikela, a Fingo ; and Mr. Plaatje, the secre- 
tary of the National Congress, a Bechuana. All of them are men of 
obvious culture and with a striking command of the English language.'* 
Having failed to make any impression on the Union Government 
(' If we had votes,' Dr. Rubusana observed, ' we could fight our own 
battles ') the deputation has come to England in the hope of influencing 
the Imperial Government through the Colonial Secretary. 

" What they ask for is : 

" First, a suspension of the operation of the Act pending the report of 
the Delimitation Commission : 

" Second, an inquiry into native grievances under the Act ; and, 

"Thirdly, an assurance that the Home Government will express its 
concurrence with certain promises made recently on behalf of General 
Botha, but obviously depending for their value on the continuance of 
his personal political supremacy. 



2i8 native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


Four Blacks to One White 

** Jn carving out estates for themselves in Africa the white races have 
shown little regard for the claims of the black man,'/ says the Daily News. 
** They have appropriated his land, and in appropriating his land have 
taken away his economic freedom, and have left him in a worse case than 
they found him. How the Native has been dispossessed may be illus- 
trated by the facts in regard to the Union of South Africa. Here the 
blacks, as compared with the whites, are in the proportion of four 
to one ; but they are in legal occupation of only one-fifteenth of the soil. 

" Under the Natives' Land Act, which has brought the matter to a 
crisis, even the poor fragment of rights in the soil that remains seems 
doomed. For under the Act the Native is denied the right — except with 
the quite illusory ' approval of the Governor-General ' to purchase, hire, 
or acquire any rights in land from a person other than a Native. Under 
this provision, the Native whose tenancy expires, or who is evicted from 
a farm, is legally denied any career except that of a labourer. He cannot 
own, he cannot hire, he cannot live a free man. 

A Legal Serf 

** In the language of Mr. Dower, the Secretary for Native Affairs, he 
must ' sell his stock and go into service.' He must accept any conditions 
the white farmer chooses or the mine-owner gives, and an ingenious clause 
encourages tvhite farm^ to ^xact unpaid service from the native 
tenants. In a word, the Native is a legal serf in his own land. 

" As British subjects, the deputation of Natives now in England have 
appealed to the Imperial Government for protection. They asked for its 
help to secure the suspension of the Act until the Land Commission report 
is before Parliament, and for machinery to inquire into and redress their 
grievances. They have got no satisfaction on these points. 

" It is time that Parliament gave some attention to its obligations in 
regard to the South African Native. He has no vote and no friends — 
only his labour, which the while man wants on the cheapest terms. And 
the white man has got this by taking his land and imposing on him taxes 
that he cannot pay. In fact, the black man is ' rounded up ' on every 
side, and if, as the deputation suggest may be the case, he is forced to 
acts of violence, it wall not be possible to say that he has not had abundant 
provocation. 


Rights to the Soil 

" There is only one principle that can be applied for his protection. It 
is the principle that he has rights in his native soil. Perhaps segregation 
is the only remedy now, but if so the reservations allocated to him in the 
Union area ought to have some relation to his heeds. We cannot do 
much for him there, but we should do what we can." 

Mr. Advocate F. A. Silva wrote to the Daily News : — 

An Appeal for Justice 

Sir, — Will you please allow me space, while appreciating your editorial 
of this date, to bring to the kind notice of your readers the distinction 
between " British justice as supposed to be " and " British justice as it 
is " with regard to the subject races, especially the black men ? 

If even the " hair " of a " white " British subject were to be touched 
in China or Japan or Turkey or Russia, the whole of the political parties 



LONDON PRESS AND THE LAND ACT atg 


of England, with their usual patriotism, will rise to the occasion, and with 
one accord demand the use of physical force against that country. 

But here in South Africa, on the day the " Act " came into law, all 
agreements with regard to land were terminated, and thousands of the 
Natives found themselves ruined and homeless. From tenants they 
have become serfs. 

If the Imperial Parliament looks with complacency on these tyrannical 
proceedings of a local Parliament, then the British public should not be 
surprised if the intelligent and thoughtful among the subject races of 
" Britain " consider " British justice ** and " Russian tyranny " to be 
synonymous terms. 

Let us draw attention to one more letter, by an 
Anglo- African to the Daily News, which was typical 
of the rest : — 

The Black Man's Burden 

Sir, — ^T hose of your readers who, like myself, have some first-hand 
knowledge of the Natives of South Africa, know that this grievance voiced 
by the native deputation is a very real That su^ a deputation 

should have to come to England to urfe such a plea is humiliating enough 
to them and to us. That their plea should be urged in vain would be 
disastrous to the last degree. 

If the Natives' Lhnd Act is the best thing the Union Government can 
do in the discharge of its responsibilities to the native tribes placed under 
its care by the King, then many of us would have to revise our faith in 
self-government as a fit instrument of national evolution ; and would, 
moreover, strenuously resist the ultimate incorporation of the northern 
territories within the Union as being infinitely worse for the black man 
than even government under Chartered Company control. 

One hopes that it is not yet too late for both Boer and Briton in South 
Africa to see that this debasement of the whole idea of self-government 
is to affront and discourage all in Great Britain who saw in the grant of 
its own political freedom to that great country a healing for its many 
woes. In the meantime Liberalism must back the native deputation 
at all costs, and it is well that The Daily News and Leader should lead the 
way. 

One Object of the S.A. War : The Liberation 
OF THE Native 

One object of the South African War was to liberate the Native in 
the Transvaal. One result of it is that we have practically less oppor- 
tunity to interfere in his behalf than we had under the Convention with 
the South African Republic. Interference in the internal affairs of a 
self-governing colony — in this case a colony in which a small number of 
white men govern a large number of black — has ceased to be within the 
realm of practical politics. But if this political interference is impossible, 
moral remonstrance is all the more in point. There is in all parts of the 
world a better and more enlightened as well as a duller and more callous 
public opinion, and the better opinion of a colony is powerfully reinforced 
by judicious expression of feeling in the mother country. There are 



220 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


occasions when that opinion should even be formally expressed by the 
Colonial Office or by a resolution of the House of Commons. Now, there 
is at present a deputation of South African Natives in this country appeal- 
ing against the ratification of the Natives' Land Act of 1913. Mr. Har- 
court has told them that he cannot interfere, nor can he any more than 
if he were an ornamental registering clerk. But he can if he chooses 
speak winged words to the South African Government, which, having 
alienated the entire white working population, is now exciting the same 
hostility among the blacks. The Act itself probably has a deeper motive. 
It prevents the sale of white men's land to the Natives or native land to 
the white men. This would have the effect of securing to the Native 
that very small portion of his own country which he has still managed to 
retain. This probably commended the measure to those who because 
they care for elementary justice are called negrophile, the colour of justice 
in a white man's eyes being apparently black. The other effect would 
be to prevent those Kafirs who are becoming educated and rising in the 
social scale from acquiring land. As in proportion to population the white 
man has by far the greater amount of land, it is clear that he does not 
come badly out of the bargain. However, it is not the Act itself of which 
the most serious complaint is made. What makes matters worse is the 
interim arrangement that pending the delimitation of native land by a 
Commission no Native whose lease of land has expired shall be able to 
renew it for a money rent or for any consideration whatever except labour 
service. It is ^oIYtended th^T farmers are taking advantage of this pro- 
hibition to exact unpaid labour services from Natives, and are thus in 
effect reducing them to serfdom. It is clear that the position in which 
the Native is placed renders this only too possible, and it is an extra- 
ordinary thing that any such violent alteration of status should be made 
before instead of after the report of a Commission. For our part we 
cannot believe that men like Generals Botha and Smuts deliberately 
desire to reduce the Native to the condition of a semi-servile, landless 
labourer, and we would venture on behalf of the many Liberals who 
fought steadily for the right of South Africa to govern herself to appeal 
to them to extend a similar consideration to the people of whose destinies 
they have become responsible, and to suspend the operation of the Act 
imtil the administrative preparations for carrying it out with equity have 
been completed . — Manchester Guardian. 


Views of the " Star " 

We have always realized that one of the gravest problems of self-govern- 
ment in South Africa is the native question. On the one hand, South 
African Colonial opinion — by which is meant " white " opinion — will 
bitterly resent any shadow of dictation from Downing Street ; on the 
other hand, the conscience of the British people cannot remain indifferent 
to any flagrant oppression of or injustice to the native races imder the 
British flag. A very difficult question of this kind is raised by the depu- 
tation of South African Natives, which is now in this country, seeking to 
move the Colonial Office on the subject of the Natives' Land Act recently 
passed by General Botha. The ultimate object of General Botha's plan 
IS the greatest exodus since the days of Moses ; it is apparently to get 
rid of black landholders in areas in which the majority of the landowners 
are white, and to buy up tracts of land elsewhere from white landowneis, 
in order to settle Natives upon them. In this way the black and the white 
races, so far as landholding is concerned, will be segregated into separate 
areas, with a reduction of possible cause of fricticn, and in some respects 



LONDON PRESS AND THE LAND ACT 221 


this is an excellent policy. But the trouble is that General Botha has 
passed the first part of his policy and has left the second part to the futiure. 
The Land Act provides that hereafter, " except with the approval of 
the Governor-General " — which proviso is mere leather and prunella — 
a Native shall not buy or hire any land from a person other than a Native. 
The effect of this is that at the termination of any existing tenancy a 
Native will have to relinquish his farm, and will not be able to hire or buy 
another from any white owner. If the Government had provided farms 
in the proposed native reserves for these men, their policy would be com- 
plete, out nothing has been done, and the fulfilment of that promise 
depends upon General Botha's continuance in office, and does not bind 
his successors. It is not surprising the South African Natives regard 
this Act as a means of driving them into the labour market either at the 
mines, or for whitejfarmers. Mr. Dower, the Secretary for Native Affairs, 
addressing a meeting of Natives at Thaba Nchu, in the Free State, gave 
a strong hint of this when he said : " My best advice to you is to sell your 
stock and go into service." Here at home we hear a great deal about the 
" magic of property " and the importance of giving the worker an interest 
in the soil he tills ; but in South Africa they apparently agree with the 
Southerner in the Biglow Papers that 

Libbaty's a kind o' thing 

Thet don't agree with niggers. 

It is clear that it is the duty of the Colonial T)ffice to gi!S?antee, in con- 
junction with the South African Government, the carrying out of the full 
policy as outlined by General Botha, and we hope occasion will be taken 
to urge action on these lines. — Star. 

Can Britain Prevent Slavery 

A question of great importance and a question which may easily strain 
the links that bind the various parts of the Empire and the Mother Coimtry, 
has arisen in South Africa owing to the operation of the Natives' Land 
Act passed last year by the Union Parliament. The Native question 
is by far the greatest problem South Africa has to solve, and its difficulties 
are so great that nobody has been able to advance any feasible scheme 
for its settlement, though there have been many suggestions as to the 
broad lines on which the matter may be settled. The Land Act is an 
attempt to establish modified segregation — i.e., confining the white man 
and the black to separate areas of the country. It is by no means a well- 
thought-out nor a very practicable enactment, and unfortunatelv has 
had the effect of greatly irritating the Natives throughout the Union. 
The Natives do not think they are being treated fairly, and have used 
every legitimate means to obtain a hearing. These means, however, are 
exceedingly meagre, practically non-existent, since they have no one to 
represent them, and as they have no vote they can bring no pressure on 
Parliament. Having failed in South Africa, they have sent a deputation 
to Great Britain, since, as they are British subjects, they consider that 
Great Britain should look after them. Arriving here, they find the Home 
Government cannot interfere in the internal policy of a self-governing 
colony, and so are left with no means of obtaining redress. It is surely 
impossible to admit that Great Britain can do nothing for the mass of 
the native population, although at the moment it appears to them that 
though they are subjects of the King he cannot even hear their appeal, 
and will do nothing for them, and has abandoned them, a state of affairs 
which is quite incomprehensible to them and leads them to depend solely 
on themselves to obtain redress — and that way rebellion lies. Britain 



222 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


is in an awkward position as she still has obligations to secure justice to 
the Natives. If South Africa were to enact slavery, would Britain still 
be able to do nothing to prevent it ? 

Ousting the Native 

Surely Mr. Harcourt can suggest to the South African Government 
the necessity of appointing a Commission to inquire into the working of 
the Act, a Commission which would include Natives as well as whites. 
That the Natives have a material grievance is certain. The Act says 
that there shall be certain areas in which no Native can own or lease land, 
and similarly areas in which no white can own or lease land. That within 
a certain period the Natives owning land in the white area must sell out, 
and when their leases run out they shall not be renewed, similarly for 
the whites in the black area. Now at present no black area has been 
delimited, and the Commission performing this task will not report for 
a year or more ; meanwhile the blacks are being turned off the land and 
have nowhere to go. The only course left to them is to hire themselves 
out as servants to the white ; and, in fact, that is the real object of the 
Act. The farmers found that the Natives were acquiring land rapidly, 
and working for themselves rather than for the white man. There was 
a shortage of labour, and farmers wished to force the Natives to work 
for them rather than for themselves. This ejection with no other alterna- 
tive is obviou#J f inost unfcwr, esp^ially as there are indications that the 
native areas will not be delimited for a considerable time. The South 
Africans have always feared a combined action of all the native tribes, 
but surely by this Act they have chosen the simplest way of irritating 
every Native in South Africa. This condition of affairs is exceedingly 
^ave, and, though the results are suppressed at present, there is no know- 
ing what may happen if the British Government, whom the Natives 
regard as their final court of appeal, shows itself powerless. We know 
that the native question in South Africa is terribly difficult, but it is 
an obvious course to be pursued in order to maintain good relations between 
the two races that grievances should be fairly heard and dealt with justly. 
— Review of Reviews. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THE P.S.A. AND BROTHERHOODS 

The Brotherhood must help not only the spiritual part of life, but also 
in social matters. They should always help the down-trodden, 
showing the brotherly feeling which was portrayed throughout the 
life of Christ. 

Rt. Hon. A. HENDERsem, M.P., ^ 

President of the Brotherhood J^Iovemcnt, at Weston-super-Mare, 

I N a previous chapter we mentioned a yellow-covered 
newspaper which abused our English friends for 
supporting the appeal of the native deputation. It 
characterized the advocacy of the aims of the 
deputation by the Brotherhood as " Rubbish — 
a commodity which can always be picked up, and 
quite a lot of people spend much of their time in collect- 
ing it.'' Why,'' exclaims this paper with indigna- 
tion, we had imagined that the ' Brotherhood ' 
movement was of a religious nature." 

Our answer to this taunt is, that just because the 
Brotherhood movement opposes the Natives' Land Act 
it must be religious, for Anglican Bishops in South Africa 
have denounced this law in their episcopal charges 
{vide Church Chronicle, 1913, October issues), and 
Anglican Bishops in South Africa are nothing if they 
are not religious. Nonconformist Ministers have 
condemned this law in their annual synods and con- 
ferences. Ex-Premier W. P. Schreiner, K.C,, C.M.G., 
at present^the London representative of the Union 

223 



224 native life in south AFRICA" 


of South Africa, is the son of an old South African mis- 
sionary. He was member of the Union Parliament 
when this law was passed and was one of the few 
senators who had the pluck to vote against it after 
condemning it ; and it is monstrous to suggest that 
these pious and learned men could conspire to denounce 
a law just for the pleasure of denouncing it. And to 
our untutored mind it seems that if it be true that all 
these good men are working for the spread of Christ's 
Kingdom in South Africa, then we must be pardoned 
the inference that in the same country protagonists 
of this Act are working for the establishment of another 
kingdom. This inference grows into a belief when it 
is recalled that the men who are responsible for the 
recent cop«^t!otion are the very men who forced this 
law upon the Government. 

In the various reports of the South African Church 
Synods of 1915, the character of this Church closing" 
law stands out in bold relief, and it is there revealed 
as an opponent of Christ and His work. Let us refer 
to only one of them. " The native work of the 
(Transvaal) District has been seriously hampered by 
the operation of the Natives' Land Act. As the 
result of evictions under the Act, some of the Churches 
on farms have ceased to exist." — Cape Methodist 
Churchman, Jan. 22, 1915. 

The numerous South African opponents of this law 
had no share in the recent upheaval, and the Brother- 
hoods by lending their platforms to a campaign in 
opposition to a law that emanates from such a quarter 
show that their cause, in addition to religion, is on 
the side of law, order, and constitutional liberty. We 
know, of course, that no doctrine of liberty would be 
acceptable in South Africa that did not also imply 
" liberty to ill-treat the blacks." Hence the Brother- 
hood propaganda, being colour-blind, explains the 



THE ^.S-A. AND BROTHERHOODS 225 

fury of the London mouthpiece of '' lily-white '' 
South Africa. 

Early in July the deputation called at the Brother- 
hood headquarters in Norfolk Street, Strand, to 
explain to the National Brotherhood Council the 
object of their mission. Mr. William Ward, the 
national secretary, received the deputation in person ; 
Mr. John McIntosh, secretary to the London Federa- 
tion, Mr. W. Mann and other officers being also present. 
They invited the deputation to the Quarterly Meeting 
of the London Federation at Bishopsgate on July 14, 
1914, after which the deputation received invitations 
to address meetings in various parts. Some of these 
engagements still remain unfulfilled. A list of the 
centres visited is given at the; end ^f this'^hapter. 

At the Bishopsgate gathering Mr. Will Crooks, M.P,, 
was the star turn.'' He welcomed the deputation 
and regretted the cold reception accorded to it by the 
Colonial Secretary. He added, however, that if they 
proceeded along the same moderate lines followed by 
Dr. Rubusana and Mr. Msane (the two members of 
the deputation who spoke that evening) he felt certain 
that they would do more good for their cause in the 
country than they did at the Colonial Office. 

The Brotherhood Journal, the newspaper organ of 
the movement said : — 


Bear ye one another's Burdens" 

For Brotherhood men and women there can be only one response to 
their appeal. For Brotherhood is not only between man and man, but 
between nation and nation, and race and race. 

In our movement, at any rate, there can be no colour bar to love and 
justice. If oiur Brotherhoods did not rise to a cause like this, we might 
well question the reality of their fraternal pretensions. 

We are told that the problem has its difficulties. No doubt. But 
th^ can be overcome, if only our statesmen will act in a spirit of courage 
and faith. Surely empire means not only privilege and power and glory, 
but also resf^nsmility and obligations. If it means only commercial 
profit, and injustice is to be done with impunity under the Imperial flag, 

P 



226 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA* 


Of what worth is such an Empire ? 

This is a matter in which every one of our members should exert the 
force of opinion on the side of right. Let us open to our coloured brothers* 
cause our platforms and our hearts. 

The five members of the deputation will be in this country for some 
months, and are prepared to address Brotherhoods and Sisterhoods, 
and to send information as to their case to any who wish it. 

We doubt not that they will find in our midst not only a most sym- 
pathetic hearing, but active help in educating public opinion in this 
country, in order that a great wrong may be righted. 

How unlike so many poor attempts at brotherhood, 
organized in the name of Christianity, especially in 
our part of the globe, where '' they have made the 
welkin ring with the sorrowful tale of the unfortunate 
condition of the weak, but, like the rich man in the 
parable, they liked their Lazarus afar off,'" and con- 
sidered their fraternal pretensions satisfied if they sent 
their dog^ lick «his wounds. No, the Brotherhood 
movement is no such parody. It is practical Chris- 
tianity which knows no distinction of colour or boun- 
daries between nations. Our nine months' associa- 
tion with Brother Martin and Brother Timberlake, 
of the Shernhall Brotherhood, confirms this view ; 
and our acquaintanceship with other members of 
this wonderful movement (which counts judges and 
members of Parliament as well as factory hands among 
its office-bearers) satisfied the writer that they are 
always ready to practise what they preach. 

A noteworthy occasion in connexion with the cam- 
paign was our visit to the Southall Brotherhood on 
Sunda3^ March 14. We can hardly forget the day ; 
it was on Crocus Sunday when thousands of Lon- 
doners went to Hampton Court in crowds to see the 
crocus bulbs in bloom. It was a glorious day and 
we remember it as the second day in 1915 on which 
the European sun shone through a cloudless sky from 
sunrise to sunset. Thousands of people attended at 
Hyde Park to witness the church parade, and still more 
thousands took advantage of the glorioift spring day 



•THE, P.S.A. AND BROTHERHOODS 227 


after a strenuous winter to flock to Epping Forest 
and other popular resorts. 

In the afternoon we took part in an Imperial indoor 
demonstration organized by the '' Southall Men's Own " 
at the Central Hall. Mr. William Cross of Hanwell 
represented England ; Mr. T. Owens, F.C.I.S., 
represented Wales; Mr. S. S. A. Cambridge, a black 
barrister, represented his homeland, British Guiana ; 
Miss Ruth Bucknall, the celebrated lyric soprano, who 
artistically contributed the solos, represented Aus- 
tralia ; while Scotland and the Emerald Isle were also 
represented in the orchestra and elsewhere in the hall ; 
Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Boote, of Auckland, New Zealand, 
represented '' the most English of the Colonies " (unfor- 
tunately the Indian representative cowld jiot reach 
Southall in time), and the writer represented South 
Africa, the baby member of the British family. 

Among such intellectual giants, one was inclined 
at the outset to feel somewhat out of place, but thanks 
to the encouraging Brotherhood cheer which always 
accompany their reception of a speaker, the stripling 
soon finds himself at home, as is always the case on 
any Brotherhood platform, and that was how we felt 
that day. 

Mr. W. Cross said, in part, that one of the most strik- 
ing proofs of the unity of the Empire was shown in 
the splendid way that men had come forward to assist 
the Mother Country on the battlefields of Europe 
from all parts of our Dominions. The coloured men 
from India had come as free men and fellow-subjects 
to do their share. The Empire was composed of 
territories and people — once separated by race and 
creed, now united under one flag. There was a great 
resemblance between Brotherhood and Empire. In 
it all kinds of religion were represented, yet all werfe 
united in /one great principle. It had been said the 



228 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA" 

soul of Russia was pity, of France reason, and of Britain 
justice. No Empire could be built to stand unless 
based on justice and freedom. The principle of free- 
dom underlay Empire as it underlay Brotherhood 
also. There was no limit to the Empire that was 
founded upon unity, toleration, justice, and liberty ; 
it surely had no end. Similarly there was no frontier 
to the kingdom of Brotherhood, and they looked for a 
kingdom out-spanning far beyond the roll of British 
drums — the kingdom of Brotherhood — the kingdom 
of Christ. 

Referring to the limitations of colour in South 
Africa, Mr. Cambridge said : '' Have you no cattle 
and sheep in South Africa ? Are there no birds ? 
Have yoiv n«t observed ^ that they are of different 
colours and yet are not restricted in their flight on 
that account ; and are you going to run counter to 
the work of nature in regard to human beings ? *The 
British Empire has a population of over 430,000,000, 
of which less than 100,000,000 are white, and there 
was a big problem to solve : ' How to rule with 
justice and equity this great multitude of various 
races and creeds and consolidate them as fellow- 
subjects of one great and mighty Empire.' The 
future of the British Empire could be segured by follow- 
ing the high ideals of * Brotherhood ' which were 
foreshadowed by Christ in the Bible, and by great 
writers such as Shakespeare and Addison. The fall 
of Rome was due to her failure to recognize the duty 
of welding her subjects together as brothers one and 
all under the Fatherhood of God. ..." 

It is a pity that the argument used by Mr. Cam- 
bridge would not go down with the majority of the 
rulers in South Africa. If it did one would remind 
them that even South African ladies pay higher prices 
for black silks than they do for white silk^; that the 



THE P.S.A. AND BROTHERHOODS 229 


value of domestic animals does not as a whole appear 
to be influenced by their colour : thus, whereas the 
fleece of white sheep commands a higher price in the 
South African wool market than the fleece of black 
sheep, their mutton has about the same flavour. 
Again of horned cattle, which give the same quality 
of beef, irrespective of colour ; farmers will tell you of 
them that coloured cattle are among the best for 
farming and other purposes, while white bullocks 
are subject to sore eyes, and white cows continually 
suffer from erythema of the nipples [Garget-mammitis ) ; 
yet we have not heard that this peculiarity had any 
influence on the quality of their beef or the quality of 
the milk they give. The springbuck, whence the best 
South African venison is obtained^ has Jhe colours of 
black, white and brown ; and this blend has not pre- 
vented it from having the reputation of being the 
prettiest and most graceful antelope in the world. 
But argument in this respect is simply wasted on the 
ruling caste in South Africa : there, Mr. Cross's views 
about '' freedom, liberty," etc., will simply be laughed 
out of court, unless he limits them to white men ; 
so that one sometimes wonders whether Christ's meta- 
phor about casting pearls before swine " does not 
find an application here. Look at the weighty argu- 
ments delivered inside and outside Parliament against 
the Natives' Land Act. Surely no legislature with a 
sense of responsibility could have passed that law 
after hearing arguments of such force and weight 
against it ; but the South African legislature passed 
that Act and seems to glory in the wretched result of 
its operation. 

Mr. Boote expressed his pride in finding how shining 
was the native policy of New Zealand when contrasted 
with the native policy of South Africa. Why," 
said Mrs.yBoote to us, with evident satisfaction, we 



230 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

have got Maori members of Parliament and our country 
is all the better for it/' She had every justification 
to look pleased at the comparison which reveals the 
justice of her country's rule, for we remember how the 
women of New Zealand got the vote. The white 
members of Parliament in New Zealand were equally 
divided on the Women's Enfranchisement Bill ; but 
for the native members, there would have been a tie, 
as was the case in South Africa three years ago, when 
the white members of the South African Parliament, 
as seemed likely there, wheedled the Women's Suffrage 
Bill out of the House. Happily for Women's Fran- 
chise in the Antipodes the Maori members voted solidly 
for the Bill and secured the passage of a reform which, 
judging by the satisfactory results in Australia and 
elsewhere, gave the lead to the rest of the Empire. 

It was at Hammersmith, where the chairman after 
hearing our story of the operation of the Natives' Land 
Act, in moving a resolution, in a sympathetic speech, 
asked : Why did we spend 240,000,000 and kill 
10,000 men in the South African War if this is the 
result ? " He asked the permission of the audience 
to change the last hymn on the programme and sing 
the Brotherhood Song of Liberty. 

As the newspaper South Africa seems to insinuate 
that the Brotherhood movement by allying itself with 
our cause had deviated from its aims and objects, 
we would explain that the chairman did not run out 
of the meeting to borrow a book from somewhere 
containing that song. The song is No. 26 of the 
Fellowship Hymnal — the hymn-book of the P.S.A. 
and Brotherhoods. 

At subsequent meetings it had often been our 
pleasure, after delivering the message from the South 
African Natives, to sit down and hear the chairman 
give out that hymn, and the orchestra lead o^ with the 



xkE P.S.A. AND BROTHERHOODS 


231 


tune of Costa's March of the Israelites. A pleasant 
variety was lent to it at the Victoria Brotherhood in 
Monmouthshire, which we visited on the first Sunday 
in 1915. There the chairman gave out the now 
familiar hymn, and the grand organ chimed the more 
familiar tune of '' Jesu, lover of my soul " (Holling- 
side's), and the variety lent extra freshness to the 
singing of the Brotherhood Song of Liberty, which is 
reproduced : — 

Men whose boast it is that ye 
Come of fathers brave and free, 

If there breathe on earth a slave, 

Are ye truly free and brave ? 

If ye do not feel the chain 
When it works a brother's pain, 

Are ye not base slaves indeed — 

Slaves unworthy to be freed ? 

Is true freedom but break 
Fetters for our own dear sake, 

And with leathern hearts forget 
That we owe mankind a debt ? 

No ! true freedom is to share 
All the chains our brothers wear, 

And with heart and hand to be 
Earnest to make others free. 

They are slaves who fear to speak 
For the fallen and the weak ; 

They are slaves who will not choose 
Hatred, scoffing, and abuse. 

Rather than in silence shrink 

From the truth they needs must think : 

They are slaves who dcire not be 
In the right with two or three. 


F. R. Lowell. 



PSA AND BROTHERHOOD SOCIETIES ADDRESSED BY THE DEPUTATION 
AND THE ORDER IN WHICH THEY WERE VISITED 


232 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA/ 




P.S.A. AND BROTHERHOODS 


233 



In addition to the Brotherhoods and we are indebted to the Sisterho^s, Adult Schools and several Church bodies who 

gave us many occasions to speak, the response to our message being most gratifying. 



CHAPTER XIX 

ARMED NATIVES IN THE SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 


Oh, where is he, the simple fool, 

Who says that wars are over ? 

What bloody portent flashes there, 
Across the Straits of Dover ? 

Nine hundred thousand slaves in arms 
May seek to bring us under. 

But England lives and still will live, 
Vor Wil crush the despot yonder. 
Are we ready, Britons all, 

To answer foes with thunder ? 

Arm, arm, arm ! 


The Gallant Bakhatla Tribe 

W HEN Bechuanaland was invaded by the Re- 
publican forces at the outbreak of the Boer 
War, the British Police Force in the Bechuanaland 
Protectorate, finding themselves hopelessly isolated 
in that far-away region, decided to evacuate Gaberones 
and effect a junction with Colonel Plumer's force 
which was then coming south from Rhodesia. The 
British Commissioner, before leaving Gaberones, ad- 
vised the Native Chiefs of the Southern Protectorate 
to make the best terms possible with the invaders 
until the Transvaal Republic was conquered by the 
advancing British Army. 

Chief Lentsue of the Bakhatla, acting entirely on 
his own responsibility, sent his brother Segale with 
a message to the Dutch Commandant, reminding 
him that the war was a white man's war, and asldiig 

234 t 



l^ATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 235 

him at the same time not to traverse his territory 
with armed Boers ; he also added that any invasion 
of his territory would be resisted with all the means 
at his disposal. Naturally, this message was treated 
with the contempt that a Boer would habitually treat 
any frankness on the part of a '' Kafir,'" and the Boers, 
in utter disregard of this warning, invaded Bakhatla 
territory. Chief Lentsue was not in a position to 
attack the Boers at the beginning of the invasion. 
He had the men but hardly enough ammunition to 
last for a whole day, so he had to bide his time, scheming 
the while to secure an arsenal. The Dutch contempt 
for Lentsue's threats advanced by loo per cent when 
they overran his outer villages on two occasions and 
he failed to offer any resistance, but ihey^had not 
calculated that his Intelligence Department and War 
Office were hard at work in order that his threat to 
the Boers might not come to naught. Accordingly 
on a certain day a convoy of huge buck-wagons, each 
drawn by sixteen African bullocks, carrying ammuni- 
tion to the Dutch troops in Bechuanaland, meandered 
its way slowly in the direction of the Marico River, 
escorted by a squadron of mounted Burghers. All 
of a sudden they were surprised and disconcerted by 
a fusillade of musketry, and the situation grew in 
gravity from the fact that whichever way the members 
of the convoy scampered, they appeared to be running 
from the frying-pan into the fire. The ruse was swift 
and successful, indeed so successful that the train 
of ammunition and provision wagons proceeded on 
its way to Lentsue's town, Mochudi, but under a 
different escort. 

What had happened was this : The sub-chief 
Segale, who has since been known as Lentsue's fighting 
general, had closely watched the movements of the 
Dutch and studied their plans, till he was able to 



236 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA'^ 

anticipate the coming of this convoy and to waylay 
it. He captured enough ammunition in this and 
succeeding attacks to enable the Chief Lentsue to 
arm his men. Thus they repulsed two invasions of 
the Boers, followed the enemy into his territory, and 
came home with numbers of head of cattle, and Lent- 
sue's territory was never again invaded by the Boers. 

This isolated action of the Bakhatla Chief and 
people in a remote corner of the Empire, on the boun- 
daries of the late Boer Republic, had its moral and 
material value. The Boers, who virtually owned the 
whole of Bechuanaland to the south, except Maf eking 
town, found that it would pay them better to adopt 
a friendlier attitude towards the other Bechuana 
tribes. Therejby ^a Dutch Field Cornet pronounced 
all the Bechuana Chiefs as the original Afrikanders — 
with the exception of Lentsue of the Bakhatla, and 
Montsioa of the Barolong in Mafeking. These two 
chiefs, the Field Cornet said, were traitors to their 
country as they had joined the foreign Rooineks 
against their black and white fellow Afrikander. But 
the armed Burghers ceased to help themselves to 
native property, and the Government's huge com- 
pensation bill at the end of the War became less 
formidable in consequence. Furthermore, the task of 
that unacknowledged hero — the native dispatch 
runner — became so appreciably easier that an almost 
regular bi-weekly communication was maintained 
between headquarters at the Cape and the siege 
garrison at Mafeking, for the native runners after 
crawling through the lines of the investing Boers, 
under cover of the night, could move through the 
peasant villages with much less danger of detection by 
Boer patrols. 

But4t must be confessed that Chief Lentsue' s defen- 
sive activities were wholly illegal, inasmuch as the 



l^ATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 337 

Boers, although they had declared war against Lent- 
sue's sovereign Lady, Queen Victoria, were not at 
war with him. It was defined, by an uncanny white 
man's mode of reasoning, that the war was a white 
man's business in which the blacks should take no 
part beyond merely suffering its effects. The Natives' 
retort to this declaration was in the words of a 
Sechuana proverb, viz., ''You cannot sever the jaw- 
bones from the head and expect to keep those parts 
alive separately." It was this principle, we presume, 
that guided Lentsue's action. Still from the stand- 
point of white South Africa, the Chief's operations 
' were a purely filibustering adventure ; and while it 
seemed difficult to indict Lentsue on any definite 
charge, some of his men were ^rreste<lfop*having taken 
part in a cattle-raiding expedition in Transvaal in the 
course of which they shot and killed a German subject 
of the Transvaal Republic. These men were tried at 
Pretoria after peace was declared, and three of them 
were sentenced to death. All through the trial the 
Chief stood by his men, who pleaded justification. 
He accompanied them in the first instance to Pre- 
toria, and afterwards paid for their defence at the 
trial, and it was evident that he took the verdict and 
sentence very much to heart. 

. If the verdict strained the loyalty of the Bakhatla, 
it had the effect of satisfying the Boers across the 
Bechuana border, in the Western Transvaal, who had 
to live down the sad memory of a victory gained by 
a black chief over their white army and of their pur- 
poses thereby. From a Dutch point of view nothing 
could be more humiliating than that black men should 
have gained such a signal success over them, and they 
are constantly crying out for the repression of Lentsue 
and his " proud " Kafirs. The Boers' demand that 
the Union ^authorities should make the thraldom of 



238 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA^' 

the Natives more effective, forgetting that the armed 
forces of the Boers when left to themselves during the 
temporary British evacuation of Bechuanaland were 
unable to do it. Notwithstanding this fact, the news- 
papers, especially the Rand Sunday Press, seem always 
to have open spaces for rancorous appeals to colour 
prejudice, perhaps because such appeals, despite 
their inherent danger, suit the colonial taste. Pre- 
ceding the introduction of the Natives' Land Act, 
the clamour of a section of the colonists and most of 
the Transvaal Boers for more restrictive measures 
towards the blacks was accompanied at one of its 
stages by alarming reports of '' Native disaffection," 
Bakhatla insolence," and similar inflammatory head- 
lines, One S^ndgy morning it was actually announced 
in the Sunday Press of Johannesburg that the Bak- 
hatla had actually opened fire on the Union Police 
and were the first to draw blood. Our own inquiries 
proved that the British Protectorate, in and around 
Lentsue's territory, where the Bakhatla dwell, was 
abnormally quiet. All that had happened was that 
two Dutch policemen had unlawfully crossed into 
Bechuanaland with firearms ; that the Natives had 
disarmed them and taken them to their chief, who in 
turn handed them over to the British authorities at 
Gaberones, where they were tried and sentenced. 

It is not suggested that Sunday papers in giving pub- 
licity to disturbing reports lend their space to what 
they know to be untrue ; but the fact remains that, 
right or wrong, their editorials seem ever ready to fan 
the glowing embers of colour prejudice into a blaze ; 
and after arousing in this manner a most acute race 
feeling, the editors, upon discovering their mistake, 
if such it was, did not even trouble to tell their readers 
that they had unwittingly published exaggerated 
accounts — since after a fair trial before the British 



^TATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 239 

tribunal at Gaberones, the offending Union Police 
were fined £50. The fact is that while under the 
quasi-Republican laws of the Transvaal a native 
policeman dare not lay his '' black hands '' on a 
lily-white criminal, even if he caught him in the 
very act of breaking the law : in British Bechuana- 
land, there shall be no difference in the eye of the law 
between a man with a white skin and a man with a 
black skin, and the one shall be as much entitled to 
the protection of the law as the other,'' and so in 
spite of scaremongers' ravings to the contrary. Chief 
Lentsue proved himself once more on the side of the 
law of his Empire. 

Go mokong-kong ko Tipereri, 

Go mokong-kor^ gole ; ^ • • 

Go mokong-kong KO Tipereri, 

Go mosetsana montle. 

Dumela, Pikadili, 

Sala, Lester-skuer, 

Tsela ea Kgalagadi, Tipereri, 

Pelo ea me e koo. 

" Tipperary " in Rolong. 


The Barolong and the War 

The Barolong and other native tribes near Mafe- 
king were keenly interested in the negotiations that 
preceded the Boer War. The chiefs continually 
received information regarding the mobilization of 
the Boer forces across the border. This was con- 
veyed to the Magistrate of Mafeking with requests 
for arms for purpose of defence. The Magistrate 
replied each time with confident assurances that the 
Boers would never cross the boundary into British 
territory. The Transvaal boundary is only ten or 
twelve miles from the magistracy. The assurances 
of the Magistrate made the Natives rather restive ; 
the result was that a deputation of Barolong chiefs 
had a dramatic interview with the Magistrate, at which 



240 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA' 

the writer acted as interpreter. The chiefs told the 
Magistrate that they feared he knew very little about 
war if he thought that belligerents would respect one 
another's boundaries. He replied in true South 
African style, that it was a white man's war, and that 
if the enemy came. Her Majesty's white troops would 
do all the fighting and protect the territories of the 
chiefs. We remember how the chief Montsioa and 
his counsellor Joshua Molema went round the Magis- 
trate's chair and crouching behind him said : '' Let 
us say, for the sake of argument, that your assurances 
are genuine, and that when the trouble begins we hide 
behind your back like this, and, rifle in hand, you do 
all the fighting because you are white ; let us say, 
further, that some Dutchmen appear on the scene 
and they outnumber and shoot you : what would be 
our course of action then ? Are we to run home, 
put on skirts and hoist the white flag ? " 

Chief Motshegare pulled off his coat, undid his 
shirt front and baring his shoulder and showing an 
old bullet scar, received in the Boer-Barolong war 
prior to the British occupation of Bechuanaland, he 
said : '' Until you can satisfy me that Her Majesty's 
white troops are impervious to bullets, I am going to 
defend my own wife and children. I have got my 
rifle at home and all I want is ammunition." 

The Magistrate duly communicated the proceedings 
to Capetown, but the reply from headquarters was 
so mild and reassuring that one could almost think 
that it referred to an impending Parliamentary elec- 
tion rather than to a bloody war. But the subsequent 
rapid developments of events showed that the Natives 
of Maf eking were in advance and that those at head 
quarters were far behind the times. In a short time 
after the interview of the chiefs with the Magistrate, 
the Boers, following the terms of their qltimatum, 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 241 

crossed the border between the Cape and Transvaal, 
cut the lines of communication north and south of 
Mafeking and, before any arms could reach this 
quarter, Mafeking (a little village on the banks of the 
Molopo) was surrounded, with Montsioastad, a town 
of 5,000 native inhabitants. The population of these 
places was largely increased by refugees, both white 
and black, from outside the town, and also from the 
Transvaal. 

At this time of the investment General Cronje 
sent verbal messages to the chief advising him 
not to mix himself and his people in a white man's 
quarrel. This view of General Cronje's was, at the 
beginning of the siege, in accord with local white 
sentiment. The European* inhabitants of •the be- 
sieged town had a repugnance to the idea of armed 
Natives shooting at a white enemy ; but the business- 
like method of General Cronje in effecting the invest- 
ment had a sobering effect upon the whole of the 
beleaguered garrison ; the Dutch loo-pounder Cruesot 
especially thundered some sense into them and com- 
pletely altered their views. 

The Barolong youth had his baptism of fire on 
October 25, 1899, when General Cronje tried to storm 
the garrison by effecting an entry through the native 
village. He poured a deafening hail of nickel into 
the native village. The Natives who were concealed 
behind the outer walls of Montsioastad waited with 
their rifles in the loopholes, according to Captain 
Marsh's instructions, till the Boers were quite near 
to them, then returned the fire with satisfactory 
results. After this encounter the whites, for the 
first time, regretted that there were not any arms in 
the place with which to arm all the Natives. As this 
attack was unmistakably severe and a Red Cross 
wagon mov^d around the Boer lines in the afternoon, 

Q 



242 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


it was feared that the native casualties were heavy, 
and medical aid was offered by the white section of 
the garrison. But all were agreeably surprised to 
find that beyond slight damages to the housetops there 
were no casualties among the Barolongs. The follow- 
ing was the only injury : A shell burst in front of 
Chief Lekoko as he was engaged in repelling the Boer 
attack, but no fragments of it touched him. One 
piece of shell, however, struck a rock and a splinter 
of the rock grazed his temple. At best only a few 
rounds of ammunition could be handed out to those 
of the Barolongs, who used their own rifles, and it is 
doubtful if so little ammunition was ever more economi- 
cally used, and used to greater advantage. 

The ifivestiherri; of Ma^eking was so effective that 
only certain Natives could crawl through the Boer lines 
at night. Throughout the seven months of the siege 
only one white man managed, under the guidance of 
two Natives, to pass into the village. All the dispatches 
which came into and out of Mafeking were carried by 
Barolong runners. Before the Boers moved their 
stock into the far interior of the Transvaal, the Baro- 
longs continually went out and raided Boer cattle 
and brought them into the besieged garrison. Often 
the raiders had to fight their way back, but sometimes 
as they returned with the cattle in the night the Dutch 
sentries preferred to leave them alone. The result was 
that General Snyman, who commanded the besiegers 
after General Cronje went south, issued a general 
order authorizing the shooting dead of ** any one 
coming in or out of Mafeking," armed or unarmed. 

At his village called Modimola, ten miles outside the 
beleaguered garrison, there lived Chief Saane, uncle of 
the Mafeking chief. Being apparently harmless he 
was not for some months molested by the Boers. 
Later, however, they rightly suspected hi^i of supply- 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 

ing the garrison with information. They then took 
him and his followers to Rietfontein, where they placed 
him under surveillance, but Chief Saane proved even 
more useful in captivity than in liberty. He used the 
seemingly inoffensive young men of Rietfontein, to glean 
all first-hand information from the Boers, who still had 
command of the lines of communication. Then he 
sent the news in verbal messages to his nephew, the 
paramount chief in the siege, who in turn communi- 
cated it to Her Majesty's officers in command. By 
means of this self-constituted intelligence bureau the 
garrison learnt of the surrender of Cronje — a happy 
consummation of the battle of Paardeberg — shortly 
after the good news reached their besiegers ; and when 
official confirmation came fpom the "Cape, m*ore than 
a week later. Chief Saane's messengers were there 
again with fresh news of the surrender of Bloemfontein. 
This news, as might be well supposed, was glad tidings 
to the besieged people. They were in fact the truths 
that King Solomon thus sets forth : ''As cold water 
is to the weary soul, so is good news from a far country," 
for, in those days, before the invention of aeroplanes 
and Marconigrams, no country in this wide world 
was further than a besieged garrison. 

Among the first civilian bodies raised in Mafeking 
for purposes of garrison defence was the " Cape Boy 
Contingent," a company of mixed classes in var3fing 
degrees of complexions. Sergt. -Major Taylor, a 
coloured bricklayer, who led the contingent and 
directed the crack snipers of that company, was 
killed during the fourth month of the siege, by a frag- 
ment of a huge shell in the outer trenches. 

His funeral was attended by General Baden-Powell 
and other staff officers, and was probably the only 
funeral of a coloured person in the South African war 
that was accorded such distinguished miUtary attend- 
ance. 



244 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


The language of the Cape coloured or mixed people 
is the same as that of the Boers, viz., the Cape Dutch. 
At times during the siege our advance lines and those 
of the Boers used to be less than lOO yards apart, and 
when the wily snipers of both sides saw nothing 
to snipe at, they used to exchange pleasantries at 
the expense of one another, from the safety of their 
entrenchments. Sometimes these wordy compliments 
made the opponents decidedly '' chummy," to borrow 
a trench phrase. In that mood, they would now and 
again wax derisive or become amusing, bespeaking 
the fates of one another or the eventual outcome of 
the war. Whoever got the worst of the argument 
used to cut off communication with an unpleasant 
remark f but whefli it was mutually amusing, both sides 
enjoyed an advantage and each joined heartily in the 
resulting merriment. On more than one occasion a 
convivial Dutchman momentarily forgot the martial 
aspect of the mutual hilarity and complied with an 
equally convivial coloured man's exclamation to 
" kyk hier, jong " (look here, old fellow), and directly 
he " kyked " the snipers did to him that which from 
the enemy's point of view would amount to '' devil's 
work." 

The reader of these reminiscences will perhaps per- 
mit us to pay a tribute to the Dutch Burghers who, 
under General Snyman, besieged Mafeking. What- 
ever we may say against them, in other ways, this 
much must be said in their favour, namely, that they 
left us entirely alone on Sundays. Such an oppor- 
tunity gave the Mafeking people a chance to get about, 
to have a thorough wash-up, and to keep the Sabbath 
holy. Snipers put down their rifles on Sunday morn- 
ings, declared a day's peace among the contending 
forces between the opposing trenches, and pointed 
out to one another landmarks beyond which the oppos- 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 245 


ing sentries might not cross, since to wander past 
these beacons would mean a sudden resumption of 
hostilities. But as the landmarks were religiously 
respected there seldom was any occasion to desecrate 
the Sabbath by the clash of arms. We had thus a 
whole day's recreation, when the trenchmen used to 
visit their families in the women's camp and make 
all-round preparations for another week's bombard- 
ment. 

The Cape Boys " fought with distinction and 
maintained their reputation right up to the end of 
the siege. Visitors to Mafeking may now see near 
the obelisk in front of the pretty town hall of the 
famous siege town, a five-pounder gun '' captured by 
the Cape Police during the siege. .This ^un was 
seized by the coloured Sergeant Bell and two other 
subalterns of the Cape Boys " contingent ; their 
contingent was then under the command of Lieutenant 
Currey of the Cape Police. 

Besides the brave coloured men who fell during the 
defence of Mafeking, one painful effect of the siege, 
in connexion with this contingent, was that of Mr. 
Swartz, who was blinded by an exploding Boer shell 
and has never been able to regain his eyesight. 


Ukude, ukude Tipperary, 

'Kude mpela ku hamba, 

Ukude, ukude Tipperary, 

Nentombi 'nhle ng' asiyo.' 

Hlala kahle, Piccadilly 
Nawe Leicester Square 
Ikude lendlhela yase Tipperary 
Kona 'po nhliziyo yami. 

"Tipperary" in Zulu. 

Twp other small companies who filled their posts 
without reproach were the Fingo contingent and the 
Black Watch, so-called, presumably, from the jet-black 
colour of the members. The " Black Watch " included 



246 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA^ 

Mozambique and Zambesi boys, Shangaans and others 
from among the blackest races of South Africa. The 
greatest disaster sustained by this company was when 
a party of thirty-three of them dashed into the Boer 
lines on an ill-starred attempt to loot cattle from the 
enemy's herds. After their night's dash out of the 
garrison they got to a hiding place for the day, but 
they were followed there and were surrounded by a 
Boer commando, which peppered them with a maxim 
and a big gun. They fought up to the last cartridge, 
but were helplessly outnumbered and outranged by 
the Boers, who killed them to a man. 

Cattle-raiding was a dangerous business in which the 
crafty Barolong, who belonged to the country, alone 
were weH versed. ^A subtle^warrior among the Barolong, 
named Mathakgong,was a r"egular expert in this business. 
He led the occasional Barolong dashes into the Boer 
lines in search of beef and he invariably managed to 
rush his loot into Mafeking. He did this throughout 
the seven months' siege with the loss of only two men. 
The only misadventure of this intrepid looter was 
when he attempted to rush in an unusually large drove 
of cattle which Colonel Plumer had been buying and 
collecting at his Sefikile camp about forty miles north 
of Mafeking for the besieged garrison. Dutchmen 
tell us that for days they had learnt that Colonel 
Plumer was arranging to send cattle into Mafeking. 
They even knew the exact number — loo head — and 
so they sent scouts to the north every day to watch 
the roads and warn the besiegers of the event. Hence, 
although they had left Mafeking unobserved, when 
Mathakgong's party approached Mafeking on the return 
trip with the cattle, a strong Dutch force was way- 
laying him and waiting to give him and Colonel Plumer's 
cattle a hot reception. They opened a rattling fusil- 
lade upon the cattle drivers, which could be heard from 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 247 

Mafeking. Over half of the cattle were killed in the 
ensuing fight, and the remainder, like the fat carcases 
of the dead bullocks, fell into the hands of the Boers. 
The drivers escaped with only two wounded out of 
the party of twelve. They said that they owed their 
escape almost entirely to the carcases of dead cattle, 
which they used as ramparts. 

When Mathakgong heard subsequently how the 
Boers had planned to annihilate him and his small 
party, he became very indignant at what he called 
'' the clumsy European method of always revealing 
their intentions to the enemy.'' 

Away out in Basutoland, '' the Switzerland of South 
Africa," the Paramount Chief Lerothodi offered to 
send an army on Bloemfontein while the " Free " 
Staters were engaged in the Britislf Colonies of Natal 
and the Cape, which they had invaded. Lord Milner 
strongly forbade him from taking that step, and it 
was all that Sir Godfrey Lagden, the British Resident 
in Basutoland, could do to restrain the Basuto warriors 
from swooping down upon the Orange '' Free " State. 

On one occasion, however, the Basuto mountaineers 
were quickly mobilized. Word reached Maseru that 
General De Wet, whose guerrilla career was then at 
the height of its fame, was seriously harassed by 
Imperial troops in the '' Free " State, and that it was 
feared he would escape through Basuto territory. In 
such a case it was ruled that the Basuto would be 
justified in opening fire upon the trespassing com- 
mandoes, but not until the Boers actually set foot 
upon Basuto territory. Therefore the Basutos, in 
anticipation of this violation of their territory, under 
the leadership of Councillor Philip Modise, made a 
record turn-out in one night, in a mountainous country-, 
without telegraphic communication, and where all the 
orders were conveyed by word of mouth by men 



248 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA r 

mounted on the sure-footed Basuto ponies ; so that at 
daybreak as the Boers at the frontier near Wepener 
awoke, they found the Basuto border to be one mass 
of black humanity. The Basutos made strong appeals 
to Maseru for permission to cross the border and rush 
the Boers, and again they were forbidden. At length 
General De Wet, amid a rain of British shells, with- 
drew his commando and carried his operations else- 
where. 

General De Wet, in his book on the South African 
War, admits that he was once hopelessly cornered 
and that then his only safe way of escape lay through 
the territory of the Basuto. He next proceeds to 
give his reason for not violating Basuto territory : it is 
that the Basutos showed no hostility towards the 
Boers, and that 'he had no wish to provoke them. No 
mention is made that armed Basutos barred his way, 
but if General De Wet's restraint were voluntary it 
would be the first instance in history that a Boer 
general had shown any regard concerning the rights 
or feelings of the Natives. 

General Botha has on several occasions mentioned 
the loyal assistance rendered to the Transvaal Burgh- 
ers by the Natives of the Transvaal. We may 
also mention the case of Chief Mokgothu, of the Wes- 
tern Transvaal, who with his headmen was detained 
at Mafeking after the siege. In fact that chief died 
in the Mafeking prison where he was interned with 
the Republican political prisoners for participating 
in the war on the side of the Republic. 

On another occasion General Botha (obviously 
referring to Natives other than those around Mafe- 
king) unwittingly paid a tribute to the valour of 
British Natives during the South African war. Speak- 
ing in the Nieuwe Kerk, at Middelburg, Holland, 
the General said : — 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 249 


The Kaffirs turned against us and we not only had to fight against 
the English but against the Natives as well . . . when the attacks of 
the Kaffirs increased, our cause became dark and black. . . . Ail these 
facts taken collectively compelled us to discuss terms of peace. ' 

The southern defences of Montsioastad were main- 
tained by the Barolong, under their own chief Lekoko, 
in their own way and with their own rations and 
rifles. These were only supplemented by supplies of 
ammunition, of which there was not too much in the 
garrison. And the only instructions which Major 
Godley and Captain Marsh gave the defenders was to 

sit tight and don't shoot until the enemy is quite 
close." 

The rest of the native population in the besieged 
town was under the fatherly care of Mr. C. G. H. Bell, 
the civil magistrate. And the harmonious relation 
between white and black as*a prevailing characteristic 
of the population of the garrison throughout the siege 
was largely due to the tactful management of Major 
Lord Edward Cecil, D.S.O., Colonel Baden-Powell's 
chief of Staff. At the end of the siege. Lord Roberts 
sent General Sir Chas. Parsons to thank the 
Barolong for the creditable manner in which they 
defended their homes throughout the siege. The 
veteran soldier evidently thought that he had not done 
enough in the matter, so later on he sent Major the 
Hon. Hanbury Tracey from Pretoria with a framed 
address to the Barolong chiefs, written in gilt letters. 

Colonel C. B. Vyvyan, who was escorted to Mont- 
sioastad by a squadron of the 4th Bedfordshire Regi- 
ment, headed by their band playing patriotic airs, 
presented the address in the presence of a large gather- 
ing of Barolongs and European visitors. The ceremony 
was described by the Maf eking Mail as follows : — 

Within the square, seated on chairs and stools, were the Barolong 
men, whilst the women, attired in their brightest dresses, took up positions 


1 "De Boerengeneraals in Zeeland," p. 39. 




250 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRIC4 


wherever they could get a view of the proceedings. On the arrival of 
the Base Commandant (Lieut.-Colonel Vyvyan) and the Resident Magis- 
trate (Mr. C. G. H. Bell), a Union Jack was.hoisted to the accompan^ent 
of a general cheer. A large number of civilians and several military 
of&cers witnessed the ceremony, among them being the Mayor (Mr. A. H. 
Friend), Mr. W. H. Surmon (Acting Commissioner),5Lieut. -Colonel New- 
bury (Field Pa 3 miaster), Major the Hon. Hanbury Tracey (the officer 
who brought the address from Pretoria), and Major Panzera. 

Mr. Bell, addressing the assembled Natives, said: To-day is an his- 
torical one in the history of the Barolongs as represented by Montsioa's 
people. I am sure it must be most satisfactory to you all who have so 
bravely assisted in the defence of Mafeking to have this honour conferred 
upon you, which is unprecedented in the annals of the ^history of the native 
tribes in this country. The Field-Marshal commanding Her Majesty's 
troops in South Africa has expressed in the address which is about to 
be presented to you his thanks for the services you rendered during the 
siege — an honour which I am sure you will appreciate at its full value, 
and which I can assure you is fully recognized by the Europeans who took 
part with you in the defence of the town. On many occasions bravery 
was displayed by both Europeans and Natives. We have fought and 
risked our lives together ; we have undergone privations ; we have eaten 
horses and various other animals of a like character ; we have seen our 
friends fall, shattered by shells ; and we have endured hardships and 
trials which very few men endure more than once in a lifetime. We 
have foughY together <or one common object. We have attained that 
object, and it is now impossible for us to do otherwise than experience 
a feeling of fellowship which is accentuated by the proceedings of to-day. 
You Barolongs at the commencement of the siege declared your deter- 
mination to be loyal to the Queen, and when we had a meeting here shortly 
before war broke out you were assured by General Baden- Powell that 
if you did remain loyal your services would not be forgotten, and the 
Field-Marshal has endeavoured to-day to convince you of the truth of 
that statement. There are certain names mentioned on the address ; 
but I cannot help, while talking to you now, mentioning the names of 
other persons who were of great assistance to us during the siege. It 
was altogether impossible to include the names of everybody on the 
address, and some of you may think that your names are not there because 
you have been overlooked, but that is not so. I will just mention the 
names of a few which, had there been room, might have appeared. First, 
there is Saane, who remained outside and assisted our dispatch runners, 
and who when he heard news sent it to us. It is only those who suffered 
from news hunger at the time can imderstand the pleasure we experienced 
at the assistance continually rendered to us by Saane. Then there is 
Badirile, who so bravely commanded his young men on the western out- 
posts, and who on many occasions went through determined encounters 
with the enemy. Then again there is Joshua Molema, Motshegare and 
Mathakgong, all of whom did good service. Then there was Dinku, 
who on the day Eloff came in and when the enemy was behind him, stuck 
to his little fort, and who during the attack was wounded by a shell, 
which has since caused his death. His memory will not fade away amongst 
you Barolongs, as he was well known as a brave man. 

Colonel Vyvyan then stepped forward and ,said : Chief WeSsels and 
men of the Barolong nation, — Lord Roberts, Commander- in-Ctdef of 
the British Army in South Africa, has sent a special officer from Pretoria 
to bring you his greeting and to deliver to you a mark of his approval 
and the approval which he expresses on behalf of the Queen, Gathered 
here to-day are subjects of the Queen from various parts of her wide 



NATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 251 


dominions — men who have come overseas 'from England, from Australia, 
from Canada, and from India — and they are here this afternoon to meet 
her native subjects of the Barolong tribe ; whilst we, the officers 
soldiers of the Queen who fought in Mafeking, wish to show what we think 
of our friends and neighboiurs down here in the stadt. You have done 
your duty well. You will remember that some time ago an officer was 
sent by Lieut. -General Baden- Powell to thank you for your services, and 
now the greatest General of all has sent you a special mark of his esteem 
in the form of this letter, which I shall read to you : 



" The Chief Wessels, Lekoko, and the Barolong of Mafeking. 

" /, Frederick Sleigh Baron Roberts, K.P., G.C.S.I., G.C.I.E., V.C., of 
Kfindahar and Waterford, hereby testify my approbation of the loyalty to 
H.M. Queen Victoria, and the good behaviour of the Barolongs under the 
leadership of Wessels, Lekoko, and the headmen Silas Molema and Paul 
Montsioa, throughout the long and trying investment of Mafeking by the 
Boers, from October 13, 1899, to May 17, 1900, and I desire to congratulate 
these leaders and their people on the successful issue of their courageous 
defence of their homes and property against the invasion of the enemy. 

" {Signed) Roberts, 

• • • " FieM- Marshal. 

" Pretoria, July i, 1900." 

Addressing Chief Wessels, and at the same time handing him the 
letter, the Colonel concluded : I give you this on behalf of Lord Roberts 
and the Queen. You are to accept it on behalf of your nation. You are 
to keep it and show it to your children and tell them why it was given 
to you and that they are to be proud of it. 

The Colonel held out his hand, which Wessels gripped very cordially. 
The band played the National Anthem, and the Barolongs joined in one 
of their native cheers. 

Wessels then rose, and taking off his white helmet, replied on behalf 
of his tribe. 

Replying to the address and speeches Chief Wessels 
Montsioa asked the officers to convey to Lord Roberts 
the gratitude of the Barolong for the relief of Mafe- 
king, adding: I have gone to extremes into which 
my forefathers scarcely ever went in defending their 
homes. I have eaten horseflesh, donkey and mule 
flesh, and had the relief column not come when it did, 
I was going to eat dog flesh, if by that means I would 
have been enabled to hold up a gun and keep the 
enemy out of doors, until Lord Roberts sent relief.*' 
Mr. Chamberlain, who visited Mafeking two years 
later, inspected the old siege position and addressed 



252 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA* 

the largest meetings we had ever seen in Mafeking. 
He said to the thousands of assembled Barolongs : 
"You ask in your addresses that the conditions secured 
to you, when you were transferred from the Imperial 
Government to the Colonial Government should 
remain as they are. I do not think that Sir Gordon 
Sprigg or any one who may succeed him will alter 
them in any respect, and should any one attempt to 
alter these conditions, you will have your appeal to 
His Majesty's Government." This was said in the 
presence of Sir Gordon Sprigg, the Cape Premier of 
the day, Mr. Thomas L. Graham, the Cape Attorney- 
General (now J udge of the Supreme Court at Grahams- 
town), and Sir Walter F. Hely-Hutchinson, Governor 
of the Cape Colony. But what must be the feelings 
of these people, and whaCmust be the effect of these 
assurances upon them now that it is decreed that 
their sons and daughters can no longer settle in the 
Union except as serfs ; that they no longer have any 
claim to the country for which they bled, and that 
when they appeal to the Imperial authorities for 
redress of these grievances, they are told that there 
is no appeal ? 

A promise of a farm was made to the Fingo and 
Kafir contingent, but that promise still remains unful- 
filled. 

When His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught 
visited Mafeking in 1906, he was touched by the grateful 
references which Chief Lekoko made to the benign 
rule of His Royal Highness's late illustrious mother. 
And he assured the assembled Natives, in the name 
of His late Majesty King Edward VII, that the death 
of their beloved Queen would " not alter their 
status in any manner whatsoever as His Majesty took 
the same deep interest in the welfare of the native 
population as the late Queen did." In view of this 



l^ATIVES IN SOUTH AFRICAN WAR 253 


statement by His Royal Highness, Chief Lekoko con- 
gratulated his people on having had the honour of 
receiving assurances of Imperial protection, not 
from an Imperial official, but from the lips of H!is 
Majesty's own brother, and in the King's English/' 
the Barolong felt that they were reclining on a verit- 
able rock of ages. 

Since the inauguration and meeting of the first 
Union Parliament, laws have been enacted which 
threaten to annul all this. As far as the Barolongs 
are concerned, the Colonial Government is not the 
only aggressor. 

In the early 'nineties a British Boundary Commission 
awarded the territory of Mokgomana to a northern 
tribe. The award caused grpat dissatisfaction. amongst 
the Barolong ; accordingly they sent a deputation 
to the High Commissioner about the award. It 
was only after they announced their unalterable inten- 
tion to assert their claim to that territory by means 
of the sword, that the Imperial authorities, in the 
name of the Queen, re-considered the former decision, 
and that Sir Hamilton Goold Adams restored that 
land to the Barolong, under date March ii, 1896. But 
the Colonial Office, completely ignoring Sir Hamilton 
Goold Adams's signature on behalf of the Queen, and 
without referring the matter to the native inhabitants 
in any way, lately confiscated that territory and 
declared it the property of the Crown. In consequence 
of this high-handed proceeding there is much bad 
blood among the Barolong. 

It might be said in support of this act of the Colonial 
Office that strangers will not be settled in the territory, 
but Sir Garnet Wolseley once declared that ** as long 
as the sun shines in the heavens, Zululand shall remain 
the property of the Zulus." The sun is still shining 
in the heavens, and right up to the time of the out- 



254 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA* 


break of the European War in 1914, the Union Govern- 
ment were very busy cutting up Zululand and parcel- 
ling it out to white settlers under the Land Settlement 
Act of the Union (for white men only), parcels of land 
to survey which black taxpayers are forced to pay, 
but which under the Natives' Land Act no black man 
can buy ; and what is true in regard to Zululand, 
British Kaffraria, East Griqualand and other native 
territories, is equally so in regard to Bechuanaland. 



CHAPTER XX 

THE SOUTH AFRICAN RACES AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 

Oh ! the Battle-bow is strung, 

The Banner is outflimg : 

From lowlands and from valley, 

From mountain-tops, they rally ! 

L. J. CoppiN, 

A frica is a land of p¥ophets attd prophetesses. 

In the course of our tour of observation on 
the ravages of the Land Act, we reached Vereeniging 
in August, 1913, and found the little village astir 
because the local pastor. Rev. S. H. Senamela, was 
returning from a certain funeral service. To many 
of the people of the place the event seemed to be a 
momentous one, affecting as it appeared more people 
than would be ordinarily the case. The person whose 
death and funeral caused all this stir was a black 
seeress of Vereeniging, of whom it was said that in 
her lifetime she prophesied the Anglo-Boer War 
and some such situation as that created by the Natives' 
Land Act. Before breathing her last, this interesting 
lady (whose sayings carried great weight among the 
surrounding native peasants and the Dutch neigh- 
bours on the farms of that neighbourhood) had, it 
was said, uttered her last prophecy. It was to the 
effect that a great war would take place in the near 
future, amongst the white peoples of the country, 
that there would be much bloodshed, but that the 
survivors .would live very peacefully with the native 

255 



256 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA" 


population. We are sorry now that we did not care 
to listen to the whole story when it was related, and 
we very much wish that we had remained to interro- 
gate the narrator as to whether the black population 
that would thus remain to share life with the white 
survivors in South Africa would be a contented one, 
or whether they would be living in chains, of which 
the thraldom of coming events appears to be casting 
its shadow before. But at the time it sounded 
parlous to think that anything could interrupt the 
calm of the tolerant British colonists and egg them 
against their Dutch rulers, who call them foreign 
adventurers. Nor could we conceive of any reason 
why the Boers, who have now more freedom than 
they evtr dreafrxt of possessing under their own flag, 
including the right to partially enslave the blacks, 
should suddenly rise up against the English, whose 
money and brains are ever at the beck and call of the 
Dutch ! Here, however, is the war, predicted by the 
late native seeress, and evidently we have to make 
the best of it. 

The writer was in London at the end of July, 1914, 
when there were many disquieting reports about the 
activities of suffragettes, and when there were still 
more serious reports about the unlawful mobilization 
of volunteer armies in Ireland. 

It was in this exciting period that attention was 
at once transferred from Ireland to the Continent of 
Europe. There it seemed that every moment was 
ticking to drive us towards the greatest war that the 
world ever saw. And though matters grew hourly 
more serious, it did not then occur to the writer, a 
stranger then of only six weeks in London, that after 
seeing the capital of the Empire under conditions of 
peace, he was soon to see it under a war doud filled 
with all the horrors o\ the approaching war ^torm and 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 257 


all the signs of patriotic enthusiasm. We were about 
to see Maf eking over again, but through the biggest 
magnifying glass. 

To walk along Oxford Street of an afternoon and 
see the multitudes of well-dressed women pouring 
into the streets from the underground stations (the 

Tube " and the " Met,'' as they are called in the 
vernacular), round Charing Cross and Piccadilly, 
and see them walking up and down the thoroughfares 
and looking at the wares displayed in the dazzling 
shop windows ; or to come down Bishopsgate of a 
morning and see the stupendous swarms of white 
men rushing to and fro along the pavements of Thread- 
needle Street, crowding the motor-buses round the 
Mansion House, St. Paul's and Ludgate fircus — 
yet all this throng so well regulated by the City 
Police that nobody seems to be in the other's way — 
the disproportion of men and women in the East 
and West respectively forming a partial segregation 
between the sexes : to see these myriads of humanity 
gave one the impression that if the Garden of Eden 
(whose whereabouts has not yet been defined) was 
not actually in London, then some very fertile human 
germ imported from the Garden must have been 
planted somewhere in the vicinity of Trafalgar Square, 
or the Elephant and Castle. These great masses of 
people when the war broke out were swept over, as 
already indicated, by a wave of patriotism, and sections 
of them reinforced by a regular inflow from the pro- 
vinces, and foreign tourists — Americans, Scandinavians, 
Orientals and Colonials — rushing back from the 
danger zone on the Continent, stranded in London 
with their pockets bulging with useless credit notes, 
all these joined the buzzing groups in Fleet Street 
in scanning the latest telegrams posted at the windows 
of the newspaper offices, or, going to Hyde Park, 



258 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA, 

they listened to the open-air speeches delivered there. 
In this gamut of personalities and nationalities there 
were, at first, faint murmurs by some of the English 
against their country joining the strife and in favour 
of her remaining neutral and leaving the Continentals to 
'' stew in their own juice.'' But when German seamen 
laid mines in the English Channel, and capped their 
deeds by sinking the Amphion and the Pathfinder, 
with hundreds of officers and men, the protestants " 
found that their efforts were out of date and that 
their arguments' could have held water in the good 
old days, before the declaration of war, but not after. 
For the silent determination of the London crowds, 
of both sexes and all colours, was so emphatic that 
one could almost read it in their thoughts, and see 
it, as it were, p^'^colating^^through every fibre of their 
systems. If the weaker races of the world — {and 
which race is weaker than the coloured ?) — are ever 
to enjoy rest, then the great Powers must avenge 
the violation of the neutrality of Belgium. 

Early in August, we left London to visit the Scottish 
capital, and as far as the swiftness of the North British 
Railway would allow a glimpse, the country towns 
and villages of the north appeared to be swarming 
with Territorials in khaki. A painful sight at some 
of the stations was the number of restive horses forced 
into the railway trucks by troopers — beautiful, well- 
fed animals whose sleek appearance showed that they 
were unaccustomed to the rough life to which the 
Tommies were leading them. Further, it was sad 
to think that these noble creatures by their size were 
to be rendered easy targets for the marksmen of the 
enemy's forces, and that they would in addition be 
subjected to the severity of inclement weather con- 
ditions, to which they likewise were unaccustomed. 
At Edinburgh, the Cameron Highlanders marched 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 259 

along some of the streets in their battalions, flinging 
the Highland kilt like the plaited reeds of so many thou- 
sands of Bojale ^ girls. Handsome young Scotchmen, 
all of them, and it was shocking to think that these 
fine young fellows in the flower of their youth were 
going to be fired at with a set purpose to kill them as 
if they were a flock of springbuck on a South African 
veld. Surely it is time that civilization evolved a 
less brutal and less savage form of warfare ! On 
Sunday evening we attended divine service at St. 
Giles's Cathedral, and the critical political situation 
permeated the entire service. This feeling was not 
lessened by the announcement that one of the gallant 
boys who sank with the Amphion was a son of one 
of the sidesmen of St. Giles's. It was war as unmis- 
takable as it was grim. • 

After the declaration of war between Great 
Britain and Germany, the Irish tension at once died 
away. The self- constituted opposing armies of Dublin 
and Belfast, or rather Ireland and Ulster, came for- 
ward and offered themselves and their arms to the 
Imperial authorities. They were anxious to proceed 
at once to the Continent and assert British prestige 
on the battlefield ; the suffragettes likewise at the 
outbreak of the war declared a truce and offered their 
humble services to the Empire. More power to 
their hatpins ! " But how about South Africa, the 
baby-member of the British family ? Where does 
she come in ? 

.Within a week after the outbreak, Mr. Harcourt 
sent the following dispatch to the Governors-General 
of Canada, Australia and New Zealand : — 

Please comHiunicate to your Ministers the following message from 
His Majesty and publish : " I desire to express to my people of the over- 
seas Dominions with what appreciation and pride I have received the 


^ Bechuana circumcision rites^ 



26 o native life in SOUTH AFRICA » 


messages from their respective Governments during the past few days. 
The spontaneous assurance of their fullest support recalls to me the gener- 
ous self-sacrificing help given by them in the past to the Mother Country. 
I shall be strengthened in the discharge of the ^eat responsibilities which 
rest upon me by the confident belief that in this time of trial my Empire 
will stand united, calm, resolute, trusting in God. — George R.I." 

More offers of men and money came from the 
Dominions ; and when such well-deserved Royal 
encomiums are showered on the already laurelled 
heads of other dominions, a self-respecting South 
African like ourselves walked the streets with a droop- 
ing head. And when our kinsmen in West Africa 
under the leadership of British officers, annexed 
German Togoland rather early in the campaign, we 
found these questions reverting in our thoughts : 
What is our Government doing ? When is it going 
to move ? Surely our Prime Minister, who is also 
Minister of Native Affairs, should now postpone the 
constant pampering of the back-velders, hang colour 
prejudice for a more peaceful time, call out the loyal 
legions — British, Boer, and Black — and annex German 
South Africa without delay ! As a British General 
and Minister of Native Affairs, he should himself 
lead the black contingents and leave the whites to be 
led by their regular officers. 

At the beginning of August, a special meeting of 
the South African Native Congress was called at 
Bloemfontein, first to express its disappointment 
at the cold reception given to the native deputation 
by the Imperial Government ; and secondly, to express 
its thanks to the British public for the kind reception 
given to the deputation ; and thirdly, to devise ways 
and means for the deputation to tour the United 
Kingdom on a mission, revealing to the British people 
the manner in which the Colonial Government dis- 
charges its trust to the coloured people. 

Many of the delegates to the Congress had travelled 
long distances by rail and road, but on their arrival 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 261 


at Bloemfontein it was only to learn that war had 
broken out between Great Britain and Germany. 
Hence the Native Congress, in view of the situation, 
resolving itself at once into a patriotic demonstration, 
decided to hang up native grievances against the 
South African Parliament till a better time and to 
tender the authorities every assistance. 

Mr. Dube, the president of the Congress, who had 
just returned from England in time for the conference, 
proceeded direct to Pretoria with the Executive, to 
lay at the feet of the Government this offer of service 
made by the Native Congress. Offers of service 
poured into the administrative capital from native 
chiefs and people in all parts of the country. Magis- 
trates who held meeting^ in theit districts on the 
instructions of the Government to explain the situa- 
tion to the Natives received similar offers. And be- 
sides all these, offers of service also came from the 
Zulu chiefs and headmen, from Chief Dalindyebo 
of the Tembus, Marelana of the Pondos, and from 
Griffiths of Basutoland. In Bechuanaland, the veteran 
Chief Khama and other Bechuana chiefs offered the ser- 
vices of native warriors as scouts in German South West 
Africa, and the Swazi princes offered a Swazi impi, 
besides undertaking to help in any other manner, 
as they did in the campaign against Sekukuni in the 
'seventies. The members of the native deputation in 
England were longing to catch the first steamer back 
to South Africa to join their countrymen and proceed 
to the front. But while all these offers were gratefully 
acknowledged, none were definitely accepted. Surely 
there must be something wrong. Is it that the 
wretched South African colour prejudice is exerting 
itself even in these critical times ? 

At Pretoria, Captain W. Allan King, the popular 
Native Commissioner of the Pretoria District, held a 



262 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

meeting of Transvaal Natives, which amongst others 
was attended by His Worship the Mayoi;.of the Union 
capital ; and there again native offers of service were 
tendered. Mr. Makgatho, the chairman, in his denial 
of the report that appeared in the newspapers to the 
effect that '' South Africa could not take the field 
as she had' a native menace to watch,'' voiced the 
prevailing feeling of the Natives. Captain King, 
however, assured the Natives that no such slanders 
were uttered by the Government. He further re- 
minded them that the Imperial Government was 
face to face with the biggest struggle that ever took 
place since the foundation of the world ; and that 
there would be fighting on land, in the air, on the water 
and under the water. He'urged the Natives to go to 
work as usual and see to it that there was no slackening 
of industries. He also made a plea for the abiding 
respect of the Natives to the German missionaries of 
the Transvaal, having regard to what those good men 
had done in bygone years for the evangelization 
of the Natives of that Province. How little did 
any one dream at the time that he was thus pleading 
for others, that Captain King would be among the 
victims of the war ; and that he would fall, not from 
a German bullet, but from one fired by one of the 
Dutch traitors, in a brisk fight to quell the recent 
Boer rebellion. 


Ku raugama e Tipperary, 

E malandalahla ; 

Ku mugama e Tipperary, 

Kwe sona standwa sara. 

Bhota, Piccadilly, 

Sala, Leicester Square, 

Kude le-le-le, e Tipperary 
'Ntliziyo yam ikona, 

" Tipperary " in Xosa. 

White men wrote to the newspapers that as France, 
our great Ally, was using Native African troops, there 



NATfIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 263 

could be no objection against England doing the 
same — as if England had rejected the assistance of 
her coloured subjects pending a decision by France. 
A well-known Natal campaigner wrote to the authori- 
ties offering to raise a crack Zulu regiment composed 
of men who had formerly fought for the old flag against 
their own people. He said he felt certain that those 
Zulus could give as good an account of themselves 
against any regiment in the field as any force yet 
mobilized ; but there was no definite acceptance 
of these offers by the Government. The native 
uncertainty that arose from this attitude of the 
South African Government went on until October, 
when our colleagues of the native deputation returned 
home from England and threw themselves into the 
vortex of the martial enthusiasm th^ was then sweep- 
ing through the country, and as no offers were accepted 
by the Government, Dr. Rubusana made to it the 
following further offer : — 


The Right Hon. the Minister of Native Affairs, Pretoria, Transvaal. 

Sir, — Coming as I do so near from the scene of operations in Europe, 
I feel that something more practical than mere lip-loyalty is required 
from those who boast of the tact that they are British subjects, and are 
loyal to the British Crown, more especially during this present crisis. 
That being so, I am prepared to raise, if you deem it necessary, a native 
levy of 5,000 able-bodied men to proceed to German South-West Africa, 
provided the Government is prepared to fully equip this force for the 
front. I should, of course, be prepared to accompany them. 

I have the honour to be. Sir, 

Your obedient servant, 

W. B. Rubusana. 


Reply. 


Union of Soltth Africa, 

Department of Defence, 

Pretoria. 

November 2, 1914. 

Sir, — W ith reference to your letter of the 20th ultimo, I am directed 
to state that the Union Government greatly appreciates the loyal senti- 
ments which are being expressed by the native citizens of the Union. 

I am, however, to refer you to the provisions of Section 7 of the South 
Africa Defence Act. 1912, and to state that the Government does not 
desire to avail itself of the services, in a combatant capacity, of citizens 



264 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA® 

not of European descent in the present hostilities. Apart from other 
considerations the present war is one which has its origin among the white 
people of Europe and the Government are anxious to avoid the employ- 
ment of its native citizens in a warfare against whites, 

I have the honour to be, Sir, 

Your obedient servant, 

H. B. M. Bourne, 

Secretary for Defence. 

Dr. W. B. Rubusana, 

East London, C.P. 

General Botha was once confronted with a definite 
request to reconcile two conflicting declarations of 
policies enunciated by two members of his Cabinet, 
and in reply to that request he gave the following 
highly diplomatic explanation : The one Minister 

had said things which should not have been said, 
and the other Minister had said things which should 
have been said in a different way/' 

If thefe is oflfe document which contains things 
that should not have been penned, or that should have 
been differently worded, surely it is the document 
we have just quoted. Fancy refusing native assist- 
ance in the present world's war on the ground of 
colour ! For weeks before Dr. Rubusana sailed from 
Europe the Turcos and Algerian and Moroccan troops 
had been doing wondrous deeds on the Continent for 
the cause of the Allies. These coloured troops also 
included a regiment of wealthy Natives from North 
Africa who had come to fight for France entirely at 
their own expense — a striking evidence of what the 
Empire is losing through the South African policy 
of restricting native wages to one shilling a day, in 
a country where the cost of living is about the highest 
in the world. The Union Government rejected the 
native offer a week after Lord Roberts laid down 
his life, having delivered the appreciation of a grateful 
Empire to the gallant Indian regiments who with 
distinction were participating in the same war ; and 
a month after the first German General Freise was 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 265 


captured in the course of a daring charge by North 
African Natives from the French Colonies ; ten days 
after the Germans at Tsiengtau had surrendered to 
the British and Japanese forces ; and nearly three 
weeks after the Germans had successfully involved 
Turkey in the strife ; and while the Canadian troops 
on Salisbury Plain included Red Indians. Where, 
then, is the wisdom of telling Dr. Rubusana, who 
knows all these facts, that the Government's rejection 
of the native offer is due to the fact that the present 
struggle is an all-white one ? The truth of the matter 
is that the South African Government worships an 
idol, which was best described by Sir Gordon Sprigg 
as ** the demon of ignorance and prejudice," and the 
claims of this fetish in South Africa prece 4 es those 
of the Empire. 

Under the old Republics we had a law which since 
the Union has become the unwritten law of South 
Africa. In this law it is laid down that a coloured 
policeman shall not lay his black hands on a white 
man even if he found him red-handed in the com- 
mitment of a crime. The duty of a coloured police- 
man in such circumstances would be to look around 
for a white constable and report the misdemeanour to 
him. Rather than suffer the humiliation of a black 
official taking a white criminal into custody white 
South Africa would prefer to have the country over- 
run with white criminals, ergo, if the safety of the 
Crown is at stake and it could be saved only by employ- 
ing black men, we would much rather let the Crown 
go than suffer the humiliation of seeing black warriors 
resisting a white enemy. If there is one point upon 
which white South Africa is agreed, it is that the 
claims of South Africa come first and those of the 
Empire afterwards. The bitter-enders " go further : 
they say that the Empire comes handy only in so 



266 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

far as it is useful to us, but when we have sucked it 
dry, like an orange, it must be thrown away/'^ It 
may be that the blacks have their reasons for ob- 
jecting to these creeds : they would prefer Imperial 
lines all the time, for Imperial lines are benevolent 
while South African lines are cruel ; consisting largely 
of repression and slavery. 

There is a talk in South Africa, which unhappily 
is not confined to Dutch-speaking South Africans. It 
advocates the elimination of the Imperial factor, 
because that factor is said to interfere with colonial 
liberties, among which is the right to correct '' 
a Native in a manner that a colonial deems fit. 
Thus, under the inconvenience of the pestilen- 
tial Imperial factor,'' a colonial Magistrate was 
forced to fine General D^e Wet the sum of 5s. on 
his pleading guilty to having horse-whipped a Native. 
Under German rule, which threatened the Union, the 
liberty of chastising the Native according to colonial 
ideas would be extended, for the German method is 
that of the old Free '' State, where a Native used 
to be tied to a wagon-wheel and whipped. If he dies 
in consequence of the beating, his death was but a 
nominal offence. This state of things explains the 
determination of the native races to fight for the 
retention of the Imperial factor, or for what vestige 
of it still remains in the country. 

A native clergyman sends us the following letter. 
We are not quite certain if the reverend gentleman 
desired to enlist as a private or as a chaplain ; any- 
way, this is what he says : 

Can it be really true that we, too, belong to the British Empire ? This 
war is growing in such dimensions that it is even affecting the King's house- 
hold. The Prince of Wales has gone to the front, and His Majesty the 
King has also gone, yet we are told that we are not worthy on account of 


' General Botha's reply to General Hertzog on the Ministerial crisis of 
1912. 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 267 

our colour^ to fight for our King and Empire. White men only must 
defend the King's Dominions while we remain behind with the women 
and children. Surely it cannot be the wish of the loyal Boers that we 
must not defend our Empire'; it is only the]wish of the rebels, and it seems 
that our Government will continue to study their feelings even while 
they are engaged in shooting down loyal people. 

It would seem that the South African Government 
is so deeply in love with the Natives that they are 
scrupulously careful lest the Natives should singe 
so much as a hair in the present struggle, and that 
white men alone may shoot and kill one another. 
But, in point of fact, black men are required by the 
Union Government to proceed to the front as Govern- 
ment wagon drivers, driving provisions and ammu- 
nition wagons, and acting as orderlies to the white 
burghers. In these capacities they are exposed to 
all the risks and horrors of •the war, yet eveil if they 
are shot, they must not, under any circumstances, be 
mentioned in the casualty lists, nor must they carry 
arms, lest their behaviour should merit recognition ; 
their heroic deeds and acts of valour must, on account 
of their colour, not be recorded. These native drivers 
are classed with the transport mules, with this differ- 
ence, that while the owner of a mule receives monetary 
compensation for each animal that falls on the battle- 
field, or is captured by the enemy, the Government's 
interest in the black driver ceases when he is killed. 

Suppose the services of these muleteers were 
recognized in a combatant capacity, some one might 
get it into his head to ask : '' Why should loyal fight- 
ing taxpayers be debarred from the rights of the 
franchise that are liberally bestowed on white rebels 
and their relations, some of whom are said to con- 
tribute nothing towards the upkeep of the State ? " 
So then to refuse these Natives the right to carry 
arms in defence of the Empire, and to send them to 
the front without arms, is to deprive such inquirers 
of this qnd similar arguments. 



268 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRIOA 

On St. Patrick's Day, the Westminster * Gazette 
appeared with a leading article, from which we make 
the following extract : — 

It will be impossible, when we have had the assistance of the Indian 
Army in Europe, to restrict the promotion of its officers in the manner 
laid down hitherto. It will also be impossible to restrict Natives of India 
who have proved their ability and experience by long service in their own 
country to positions in which they are subordinate to the rawest new arrival from 
the covenanted service. All these discriminations which rest simply on 
race and are justified by no natural disability will have to be swept away, 
and new and more generous conditions laid down for the whole Indian 
public service. 

Surely what is true in regard to the Indian public 
service is equally so in regard to that infallible South 
African taxing machine, the adjunct of the Union 
Civil Service, which is officially called the Native 
Affairs ^Department. There, raw recruits serve their 
apprenticeship *while lording it over Natives who have 
proved their ability and experience by a quarter of 
a century's service in their own country. It is to 
prevent the application to South Africa of broad- 
minded views like those expressed by the Westminster 
Gazette that native Africans must not serve against 
the Germans. Therefore it seems to have occurred 
to the authorities that the best course is to engage 
the Natives in a capacity in which their participation 
will demand no recognition. These statements are 
not mere empty phrases, for the writer recently caused 
inquiries to be made through the Department of 
Native Affairs in South Africa as to whether there 
were any Coloured People who had been killed or 
wounded while on active service at the front. And 
the result was a long list of killed, wounded, and cap- 
tured up to the end of October, 1914, among Natives 
and Coloqred People who had not been mentioned in 
the casualty lists. ^ 

' When the enemy airmen attacked the British camp at Garub 
(G.S.W.A.), on March 27, 1915, and dropped bombs on General Botha's 
guns, Reuter says, " only one Native was slightly wounded.'* 



NATIVE RACES^AND EUROPEAN WAR 269 


This deference to South African prejudice would 
at least seem reasonable if the King's enemies also 
had colour scruples. But so far from that being the 
case, Natives living far away from defended centres 
are always the first to suffer when a white man's war 
breaks out. In fact they are always subjected to 
indignities from which they would be immune if they 
had arms. One of the first steps taken by the' 'Free " 
State rebels under General De Wet during the recent 
rebellion was to dash for the nearest native owner 
of horses and annex their mounts. The unarmed 
proprietor's recourse in that case was to take to his 
heels and leave the rebels to plunder his stock. Any 
hesitation to run away has involved some unfortunate 
Native in the danger of being horsewhipped into the 
service of the King's enemies,* and if he* took the first 
opportunity to escape from the rebel commando, a 
detection of his act would positively have meant a 
bullet behind his neck. 

The late Dean Green of Natal, writing years ago, 
said : — 

" Every chief should have his own militia and police. Our common 
humcui nature tells us that it is the duty of every one capable of bearing 
arms to fit himself to be able to defend his country and Government. 
Were the Government to refuse permission to the chief to enrol his young 
men, it would inflict a wrong on them, against which their manliness 
would revolt. Our Government, however, is not established to alienate 
from us the native races, but to attach them to us by giving them full 
freedom to exercise under restraints of Christianity all those instincts 
and desires which are proper to their manhood. 

" The Houssas and Soudanese on the north, the negro tribes on the 
west, form part of the Imperial forces, and have shown themselves true, 
brave, and useful troops. On no possible ground of justice can the loyal 
Bantu tribes be placed under a ban, and refused to serve in the ranks 
for the defence of the Empire. A youth debarred from the legitimate 
opportunities of exercising his manly energies will become riotous and 
unruly, and addict himself, for the sake of excitement, to sheep-stealing, 
etc." 

The Christian Express^ which has always acted as 
the mediator between the overbearing section of 



270 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Colonial opinion on the one hand and the subject 
races on the other, tried to allay the disappointment 
of our people with the excuse that the Government, 
refused the native offer on the ground that it desired 
to use men from the more advanced races who are 
capable of being more easily trained.^ In the face of 
historical records, however, this argument will not 
hold a drop of water. British archives are over- 
loaded with instances of the valour and tractability of 
the aboriginal races of South Africa no less than those 
of their nephews, the Cape Coloured People. Not 
having enough space to enumerate them at length we 
may only refer to two instances of recent date. 

During the South African war, the writer was 
asked by the military authorities to recruit twelve 
young Natives' to act as 'scouts in the Western Trans- 
vaal. The young fellows were handed to Sergt. 
Clemens of the Cape Police for training. Three days 
after they were enrolled we met the Sergeant, who 
was highly pleased with his raw recruits.'' He 
told us with evident satisfaction that, after he had 
given them oral instructions in the handling and use 
of firearms, he took them to the range to try them at 
shooting ; and all but two of them hit the bull's eye 
with the first attempt. This is but one isolated 
instance which is typical of the rest. 

It is doubtful if any white man is a greater authority 
on the character of the Zulus than Mr. R. C. Samuelson 
of Natal. Writing on the outbreak of the European 
war and the advisability of raising native levies, he 
said : — 

During the late rebellion I was captain and adjutant of 350 men 
composed of men, half of whom were Christians and the other half hea- 
thens oi the Amangwane, a section oi the Amabomyu tribe, who at the 
beginning of the rebellion were raw recruits, but who, after three months' 

' The Express is now advocating the raising of an army of 100,900 



NATIVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 271 


drill and manoeuvring, were as expert in their drill and use of the rifle 
and riding as any corps in the field. In all my dealings with all these 
men and many more, I found them most attentive, most orderly, most 
careful about their arms, most alert on duty, perfectly reliable, and in 
and out loyal to the Government and those they were under. Having 
been a volunteer for many years, and a cadet at college in the Cape, I 
can safely say that I never found our people as a body so easy to man- 
age and train in the military art, and so orderly and attentive as these 
natives were. 

I had the honour to be called upon to summon 50 of the Zulu war and 
Boer war heroes to be reviewed by the Duke of Connaught; many of these 
had the Zulu war medal on, which the Duke took special notice of, but 
the Boer war medal was not there. These people were highly compli- 
mented by the Duke, and afterwards gave a free concert to the Royal 
party in the Maritzburg Town Hall, which was attended by immense 
crowds, the chief song of the evening being a Zulu song specially pre- 
pared by these men, and set to music by them, in honour of the Royal 
party, which was also embossed and presented to the Royal party. The 
Royal party expressed their appreciation by sending forward to me one 
of the officers in waiting on them to thank the singers. 

" IzwE Lakiti " Aug. 12, 1914. 

The writer has received several letters expressing 
the native resentment of the idea that they should 
fold their arms and cogitate while other British sub- 
jects, irrespective of colour, are sacrificing their lives 
for the defence of the Empire in this, the darkest 
period of His Majesty's reign. Our reply to each 
of these letters was that the natives should subscribe, 
according to their small means, to the several war 
funds ; and our latest information is that they are 
subscribing to the Prince of Wales' Fund, the Gover- 
nor-General's and the Belgian Relief Fund. When 
we last heard from home the Basutos had given ¦£2,yQO 
to the National Relief Fund, the list being headed by 
Chief Griffiths with a donation of £ioo. Chief Khama 
of Bechuanaland gave £800, Chief Lewanika of Barot- 
seland £200, Chief Lekoko and two other Chiefs, each 
£30, while the Zulus, Tembus and Pondos were still 
collecting. At Kimberley the Natives gave concerts 
for the benefit of the Mayor's Relief Fimd. At their 
Beaconsfield concert the Kimberley Band under Herr 
Carl Rybnikar, known as the best volunteer band in 
South Africa, attended and gave selections ; and Claiet 



272 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRIC^ 

Molala of the Batlhaping gave General Botha 200 
bullocks to feed the Union troops. 

In April 1915 the Minister of Native Affairs gave 
the following testimony of native loyalty and co- 
operation. Speaking from his place in Parliament 
Mr. Malan said — '' he thought it his duty to say that 
the attitude of the large number of the Natives en- 
trusted to their care, all through the troubles, had 
been most exemplary and most patriotic. There 
was one exception to which he would refer, ^ but from 
the commencement, from all parts of the Union, 
resolutions came to the Government of expressions of 
loyalty on the part of the Natives, and of their support 
in the measures Government was taking in connexion 
with the war. They (the Natives) gave oxen and 
supportM liberally, acco^'ding to their means, the 
different patriotic funds which had been established, 
and generally gave the Government every assistance. 
The Government had been able to enrol between 
23,000 and 24,000 Natives for service in German S.W, 
Africa, in building railways and in transport work. 
The chief of the Tembus had volunteered to send his 
own son to German S.W. Africa for the purpose of 
superintending the members of his tribe, a large num- 
ber of whom had volunteered for the front. All that 
spoke well for the Natives, and he would be neglecting 
his duty if he did not testify to that.'' 

In opening the Rhodesian Legislative Council, on 
April 28, Mr. Administrator Chaplin concluded by 
sa3dng that the behaviour and attitude of the native 
population since the outbreak of the war left nothing 
to be desired. All information available showed that 
any attempts by emissaries of the enemy to stir up 


^ The " one exception " referred to by Mr. Malan was the Hlubis of 
Matatiele district, who forcibly resisted the cattle dipping regulaticms 
because, they said, the frequent dipping killed their cattle. 



NATJVE RACES AND EUROPEAN WAR 273 


trouble would fail to meet with support. Numerous 
expressions of loyalty to His Majesty have come from 
leading Chiefs, taxes are readily paid, and perfect 
order has been maintained."' 

What a happy land in which to live South Africa 
would be if, instead of the present god of colour pre- 
judice, we had some such confidence as is reposed in the 
blacks by the British authorities in East Africa and 
elsewhere. The naughty white piccaninnies who 
always insult inoffensive black passers-by would be 
taught that the Native is a useful neighbour whose 
strong right arm may be depended upon in times 
of trouble, instead of being taught, as they are taught 
in Transvaal, that every man Jack of them is a black 
peril monster who must ngt only b^ discriminated 
against, but who must be indiscriminately insulted 
and repressed. The following dispatch, published in 
the Daily Chronicle, illustrates the confidence of the 
British authorities in East Africa towards the blacks : — 

East African Battle won by Native " Non-Com." 

About the end of September the Germans advanced 600 strong, with 
six machine guns, from the Vanga side. They were held at Margerini on 
September 25 by Captain Wavel's Arab Company, and some King's 
African Rifles under Captain Stoner arrived from Jubaland on the 27th, 
none too soon to reinforce Captain Wavel, the enemy in the meanwhile 
having become very aggressive. 

The German plan of attack was to destroy the Salisbury bridge, which 
connects Mombasa island with the mainland, thus securing one of the 
most important strategical positions in East Africa. 

The " Koenigsberg " did not arrive, perhaps because of the nearness 
of British warships, and the little British force of 300 men dislocated the 
land operations of the enemy. " C " Company held of! the Germans 
until October 2, when they were reinforced by Indian troops. The Jind 
Infantry behaved particularly well at Gazi, where they had to face a 
very heavy fire from the six machine guns of the enemy. 

The King's African Rifles deserve special mention. Major Hawthorn, 
who was in command, and all the European officers, were wounded early 
in the engagement, thus leaving the little force leaderless. 

Colour- Sergeant Sumani quietly took charge, and led on his men as 
if nothing had happened. He gave the order to charge, and the enerny 
broke and fled. This incident has not yet appeared in the bald official 
announcements, but it is hoped the splendid conduct of the native colour- 
sergeant will receive recognition.^ 

' Sergeai^ Sumani has since been decorated with the D.S.O. 



CHAPTER XXT 

THE OFFER OF ASSISTANCE 
BY THE SOUTH AFRICAN COLOURED RACES REJECTED 

The Africans and their descendants in America have proven to the 
world that they do not lack courage and military ardour. This the 
French have recognized by enlisting them in their present struggle. 
We hope for the sake of the Africans that they will give a good account 
of themselves, but the coloured race is like the Irish who are invincible 
in fighting for other nations, bnt not for themselves. 

An American on the Great War. 

T he African Political Organization was early 
in the field. Dr. Abdurahman, its president, 
during the first week of the war, had a force of 3,000 
coloured men at Capetown ready to take the field 
against the Germans. These men included those 
who had fought for the British flag, side by side with 
the British troops in the Matabele wars and other 
South African campaigns in various capacities. In 
a few days the number of this force rose to 5,000 able- 
bodied men ready to go to the front. A definite 
offer of the service of this force was communicated 
to the Union Government, who replied that the offer 
was under consideration. 

Mr. William Hosken, the famous Johannesburg 
politician, member of the Transvaal Parliament 
before the unification of South Africa — a gentleman 
whose legislative talents are now unfortunately in 
abeyance, because his liberal views on colour are too 
advanced for the palates of the lily-white voters of 
his State — offered to pay the cost of recruiting such 

274 



HELP. OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 275 

a coloured force. Application forms were scattered 
throughout the country, asking volunteers to send 
in their names and addresses to the A.P.O. head- 
quarters signifying their intention to serve as units 
of the Hosken Division. Our old friend Mr. N. R. 
Veldsman, a coloured political organizer of considerable 
ability, who had been in retirement for the past year 
or two, came forward, took his place among the coloured 
leaders, and addressed patriotic meetings at Saron 
and other Cape districts on behalf of the recruiting 
movement. 

PATRIOTIC DEMONSTRATION 

The City Hall, Capetown, was packed on Monday night, August 31, 
1914, with coloured citizens of Capetown, who' hadjassembled, to [express 
their loyalty to King George and fheir determination to support the 
Government during the present crisis. 

Sir Frederick Smith, who presided, thought the coloured people had 
taken a wise course in calling that meeting to tender their assistance to 
the Government while Britain was engaged in war. He was confident 
that that demonstration would receive the grateful appreciation of the 
Prime Minister, his Cabinet, and also of H.M. King George. 

Dr. Abdurahman said that the coloured people had met in public meet- 
ing on many occasions, but never in the history of South Africa had they 
been called together on a more solemn occasion, nor at a more critical junc- 
ture, and never when the issues were fraught with greater consequences. 

The coloured people had many grievances, but all that must be for- 
gotten while danger was threatening the very existence of the Empire. 
If the Empire fell. South Africa would fall, Capetown would fall, and 
Capetown might even be laid in ruins. 

Although England was engaged in a life and death struggle, South 
Africans felt secure and could sleep in peace. That security was due to 
the supremacy of the British Navy. They had met that night to decide 
how they could assist the Empire. He moved the following resolution ; 

" That the coloured citizens of .Capetown, in mass meeting 'assembled, 
under the auspices of the A.P.O. , hereby express their loyalty to H.M. 
King George V, and take this opportunity of placing on record their 
recognition of the fact that the security that they at present enjoy is 
due primarily to the supremacy of the British Navy ; and further, they 
pray that Britain's efforts during the war will be crowned with success. 
That a copy of this resolution be forwarded to H.E. the Governor-General 
for transmission to H.M. the King." (Applause.) 

Mr. J, C. Carelse, in seconding the resolution, remarked that that was 
not the time to consider their own troubles, but to show the enemy that 
they stood together as a united Empire against any foe who dared to 
lower the Union Tack. The resolution was adopted with enthusiasm. 

Mr. N. R. Veldsman appealed to the coloured people to assist those 
who as a result of the war might suffer. The coloured people should 



276 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA,. 

spend less on bioscopes and trivialities, and contribute to a fund which 
it was proposed to raise. He moved the following resolution,: 

" That, in order to alleviate the suffering which inevitably accom- 
panied war, an appeal is hereby made to the 'coloured citizens of the 
Union to contribute to a fund to be administered by the following com- 
mittee : The Rt. Rev. Bishop J. A. Johnson, Mrs. Wooding, Mrs. 
Abdurahman, Mrs. Gow, Dr. Gool, Dr. Abdurahman, the Rev. F. Gow, 
Messrs. C. J. Carelse, S. Reagon, N. R. Veldsman, S. F. Geyer, P. Grever, 
H. Hartog, B. Baron, H. Cressy, A. Arendze, H. J. Gordon, R. Hoede- 
maker, W. A. Roberts, M. J. Fredericks, Fred Hendricks, H. A. Gamil- 
dien, Pfieffer, and George Fife." 

The Rev. Mr. Gow seconded the resolution, and said that although the 
spirit of war was in the air, there was also a spirit of helpfulness in the 
air. They should at this period forget race and creed and contribute to 
the fund. 

Mrs. Wooding, who spoke in support of the resolution, remarked that 
the coloured women would be found ready to do their duty whenever the 
call went forth. The best way to show loyalty to the Empire was by 
rendering some service. The resolution was unanimously adopted. 

Dr. Gool said that another way of giving practical assistance to the 
Empire was by raising volunteer corps for active service. He moved : 

"That the offer made through the A.P.O. to raise volunteers for 
active service at home or abroad be approved, and that this meeting 
tenders to Vhe Union* Governraent*»its loyal support during the present 
crisis." 

Mr. S. Reagon, who seconded, said that they were excluded from the 
Defence Force. But as the Empire was endangered he hoped an oppor- 
tunity would be given the coloured people to take a part in the 'fighting 
line. 

The resolution was agreed to. The sum of £37 was raised during the 
evening. 

Mr. H. Seymour rendered some patriotic selections on the organ. The 
meeting concluded with the singing of the National Anthem. 

At Johannesburg, Mr. Koopman presided over a 
crowded meeting of the Rand branches of the Coloured 
Organization, which unanimously endorsed the pro- 
posal to raise the corps. Similar meetings, under the 
respective chairmanship of Mr. Keiler, Mr. Samuels, 
and Mr. I. Joshua, were held by the Pretoria town and 
country branches and at Kimberley. At Pretoria, 
Revs. G. Weavind and Mr. Hanford, both missionaries, 
also spoke offering to associate themselves with the 
coloured people in any benevolent efforts undertaken 
to alleviate the distress that might follow the outbreak 
of the war. Port Elizabeth and other district branches 
also moved in the same direction. Capetown, the 
headquarters^of the Organization, was the centre of 



HELP OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 277 


these activities, and a number of coloured women 
wrote to the A.P.O. secretary offering their services as 
nurses to accompany the coloured volunteer force to 
German South-West Africa, so that the coloured 
people, as the A.P.O. newspaper puts it, have closed 
their book with its ugly record against the Botha 
Government, and offered the Prime Minister their 
loyal support during the war." 

But while these things were in progress, the Union 
Defence Force, which had mobilized near the German 
frontier under Colonel Maritz, rebelled against the 
Crown, and with their arms and ammunition they 
joined the Germans. This act of rebellion occasioned 
the greatest alarm among the coloured population 
near the boundaries of G^rriian South-West Africa. 
And they appealed to the Government for arms to 
protect their homes and properties. They remem- 
bered what happened during the Boer War, when the 
Dutch inhabitants of those districts joined their 
kinsmen from across the Vaal, and how that Natives 
who were armed always remained free from molesta- 
tion. That their present fear was not groundless 
the following declaration shows : — 


I herewith declare that my brother and I were on a visit to the farm 
Groen Doom, Cape Province, op the morning of September i6, 1914. 

When we got opposite the police camp, we were surprised to see the 
camp invaded by Germans. The Germans then beckoned us to come 
up, and told us that we were prisoners, and that we must go with them 
to the station of Ukamas. My brother on hearing that turned his horse 
and galloped back. The Germans called on him to halt at once, but he 
did not stop. Then they fired at him, and shot him dead. 

My brother was left lying where he fell. After he was shot I asked If 
I could go to him, but the Germans would not allow me. Afterwards 
I was taken to the German camp, where I found all the coloured] people 
of Groen Doom that were captured by the Germans. Two old women 
who were too weak to walk all the way were left half-way without either 
food or water ; one of the two was a cripple, and the other an old woman 
between sixty and seventy years of age. 

I stayed at the German camp at Nakob till the first German patrol 
went back to Groen Doom to guard. Then that same evening I ran 
away from the German camp, and fortunately got safe home to my house 
at Nudab. 



278 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA' 

I again declare that this story is an exact reproduction of what I have 
seen with my own eyes. 

(X his mark) 
Jacobus Bezuidenhout. 

Witness : T. Kotzee. 

Signed at Keimoes this 6th day of October, 1914. 

This statement was conveyed to the Union Govern- 
ment by Mr. M. J. Fredericks, secretary of the African 
Political Organization. With it there was a request 
by a meeting of coloured people at Calvinia and 
adjacent districts near the German frontier asking 
for arms. General Smuts replied, regretting the 
situation in which the coloured residents of the districts 
of Calvania, Kenhardt, Keimoes, and Upington found 
themselves ; and said that he hoped the Union forces 
would e,re long remove the cause of their anxiety. 
He added that the question of arming coloured citizens 
had been carefully considered by the Government, 
but that, for reasons already published, their request 
for arms could not be complied with. 

Finally General Smuts expressed regret at the 
shooting of the brother of Jacobus Bezuidenhout. 

Apparently the deceased had been shot because he 
attempted to escape, and in the circumstances,'" added 
the General, '' the Germans were clearly justified in 
shooting him." 

If General Smuts is right in his concluding remarks, 
then the Germans are quite justified in pillaging 
Belgium, as the reason they ravaged that country was 
because the Belgians refused to comply with a plain 
request to allow German troops to proceed through 
Belgium to France. But whatever the view of the 
South African Government might be on these subjects, 
we would like to point out that it is against a coloured 
man's grain to obey the orders of a man, no matter 
who, if he is at war with the coloured man's chief. 
It would be nothing unusual for a German to order a 



HELB OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 279 


coloured man about in times of peace, but once war 
was declared, it became an outrage upon the traditions 
of the blacks to obey Germans who were now the 
enemies of their country. 

General Smuts will no doubt remember his own 
operations in 1901, before he became a British subject. 
How he then invaded Cape Colony, and got a number 
of recruits from among the Dutch inhabitants of 
certain Cape districts. How eventually, when he came 
to the district of Calvinia, his burghers, reinforced by 
rebels, found a coloured blacksmith there, by the name 
of Abraham Ezau. How the burghers demanded 
certain information from this man, and he refused to 
supply enemies and rebels of the Crown with any 
information. That the man was severely ill-treated 
and tortured, but that he '^ould not disclose 'anything. 
And how that a gang of Boers dragged this coloured 
man out of the town and shot him down ; that they 
also looted Abraham Ezau's shop and took away the 
murdered man's tools, which his widow never recovered, 
and for which the writer has been informed she never 
received any compensation. The Cape Government, 
prior to the Union, erected a tombstone over the grave 
of this man, who sacrificed his life for it rather than 
betray his country. And the sight of that memorial 
stone was no doubt a grim reminder to the inhabitants 
of Ccdvinia of what would happen if the rebels invaded 
Calvinia once more. 

Burra dur hai Tipperary 
Bahoot lumbah koouch wo 
Burra dur hai Tipperary ^ 

Sakki pas pownchenay ko 
Ram ram Piccadilly 
Salaam Leicester Square 
Burra, burra dur hai Tipperary 
Lakin dil hoaye phus-jgayah. 

" Tipperary " in Hindustani. 

The Natives and the Cape coloured Afrikanders 



28 o native life in SOUTH AFRICA 


were not alone in tendering loyal offers of service to the 
Government. The Indians of Natal and other coloured 
residents likewise offered their services to the Govern- 
ment, besides subscribing liberally according to their 
means to the various war funds. The St. Helenians 
of Capetown passed the following resolutions, which 
Mr. S. Reagon, the secretary, forwarded to the 
Government : — 

(1) That this meeting of St. Helenians expresses 

its unswerving and devoted loyalty to His 
Majesty King George and His Governments. 

(2) That it expresses its full confidence in the Union 

Government in the present crisis through 
which the Empire and Union are passing, and 
congratulates General Botha, and expresses 
its deep' appreciation of his practical patriotism 
in having taken command of the Union Forces 
in the field. 

(3) That the services of the Association and its 

members be hereby offered to the Union 
Government in whatever manner they may be 
of assistance to ensure the triumph of the 
Empire and for the maintenance of law and 
order. 

Shortly after the outbreak of the present war, Dr. 
Abdurahman offered the Government the services of 
the'5,000 coloured warriors recruited through the A.P.O. , 
and General Smuts replied that the offer was under 
consideration. Meanwhile the A.P.O. recruiting 
agency had been continuing its work, and no fewer 
than 13,000 coloured men had sent in their names 
and addresses and signified their intention to take 
the field. So Mr. Fredericks, the secretary of the 
A.P.O., wrote once more to General Smuts, on 
October 23, offering the services of these men in the 
name of the Coloured People's Organization. This 



HELP. OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 281 


offer brought forth the following definite reply, which 
is couched in identical terms to the one sent on the 
same date to Dr. Rubusana, who wrote offering the 
services of 5,000 Natives : — 

Department of Defence, 

Pretoria, 
November 6, 1914. 

Sir, — W ith reference to your letter of the 23rd ult., I beg to inform 
you that the Union Government greatly appreciates the offer of service 
of the Cape coloured people. 

I am, however, to refer you to the provisions of Section y of the South 
African Defence Act, 1912, and to state that the Government does not 
desire to avail itself of the services in a combatant capacity of citizens 
not of European descent in the present hostilities. Apart from other 
considerations, the present war is one which has its origin among the 
white peoples of Europe, and the Government is anxious to avoid the 
emplo^ent of coloured citizens in a warfare against whites. 


No doubt the Government of British South Africa 
was actuated by the loftiest motives in 'rejecting 
voluntary offers of service from citizens of non-Euro- 
pean descent ; but it is clear that such a reply at 
such a time ought not to please many people in Great 
Britain who had to offer the cream of British manhood 
to defend their portion of the Empire, and then to 
offer in addition more men to lay down their lives for 
the safety of the Colonies, including South Africa, 
a land with thousands of able-bodied and experienced 
warriors who are willing to defend their own country. 
For the same reason this decision ought not to please 
our French Allies, who, besides sacrificing men and 
money on the battlefields of Continental Europe, 
must provide more men and money to guard their 
colonial possessions in different parts of the globe. 
This decision ought not also to cheer any one in 
Belgium, where fathers and mothers and their children 
are separated and starving, a nation living practically 
in exile, or in bondage, its brave monarch sojourning 
in foreign territory. On the other hand, if there is any 
one place where this decision of the Government of 



282 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

British South Africa would be hailed with the liveliest 
satisfaction, it is certainly Berlin, and that particularly 
after the bitter experiences of German troops in 
encounters with native African troops, both in Con- 
tinental Europe and in East and West Africa. 

Similarly this decision of the South African Govern- 
ment ought not to please the Boers themselves, inas- 
much as, finding the request for volunteers amongst 
the whites failed to secure sufficient men, the Union 
Government had perforce to resort to coercion, in that 
some 300 Boers who refused to enlist for service in 
the expedition to German South West Africa were 
fined or imprisoned. This course, which is practically 
conscription, would have been unnecessary had the 
Union (government accepted the offered service of 
the 18,000 and^more voliinteers whom it curtly re- 
jected. 

The coloured people, judging by the letters that 
many of them have sent to the Press, felt humiliated 
to find that during the Empire's darkest hour a 
Government to which they pay taxation is publishing 
decisions that ought to wound the feelings of the 
Allies' sympathizers and give satisfaction to the enemy. 

It is just possible that the Government refused 
the offer of the coloured people in deference to the 
wishes of a section of the white people of the Union ; 
but judging from the African Press, that section, 
although somewhat noisy, was an infinitesimal one. 
This section, as is shown from the extract below, also 
discussed the voyage of the Indian troops to Europe. 
The East Rand Express, a paper published in one of 
the most important suburbs of Johannesburg, said : — 

Coloured Troops and the War 

The news that Great Britain intends to employ Indian native troops 
against the Germans has come as a shock to many South Africans. We 
can but hope the news is incorrect. In our opimon it would be a fatal 



HELB OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 283 


mistake to use coloured troops against the whites, more especially as 
plenty of whites are available. From the English standpoint there is 
probably nothing offensive in the suggestion. Most Home people do not 
seem to see anything repugnant in black boxers fighting whites, but they 
have not had to live in the midst of a black population. If the Indians 
are used against the Germans it means that they will return to India 
disabused of the respect they should bear for the white race. The Empire 
must uphold the principle that a coloured man must not raise his hand 
against a white man if there is to be any law or order in either India, 
Africa, or any part of the Empire where the white man rules over a large 
concourse of coloured people. In South Africa it will mean that the 
Natives will secure pictures of whites being chased by coloured men, and 
who knows what harm such pictures may do ? That France is employing 
coloured troops is no excuse. Two blacks in any sense do not make a 
white. The employment of native troops against Germany will be a hard 
blow on the prestige of the white man. 


These emotionalists urge the Imperialists against the 
use of black warriors for the simple reason that it would 
give them (the emotionalists) '' a shock.'' So that 
the agony of British troops and the anxiety gf British 
wives and mothers is not to be lessened, nor the perils 
of non-combatants greatly minimized, or the war 
hastened by a decisive concentration of the Empire's 
forces on the battlefield, because of the shock " 
it would give the emotionalists for black to fight 
against white. The common-sense view would show 
the advantage in permitting all subjects, including 
the coloured races of South Africa, to take part in the 
struggle and thus enable the authorities to place 
more men on the Continent, instead of sending drafts 
of Imperial troops to take the places of men at the 
outposts of the Empire, who are disqualified solely 
by their colour. 

Last New Year the author received a letter from a 
well-known British mother conveying her well-wishes 
besides the following moving particulars : — 

We are almost beside ourselves with grief over this awful war. My 
voung nephew has been home on a nine days* holiday at Christmas and 
he has now returned to the front. He has been awarded the D.S.O. for 
blowing up a bridge and so delaying the Germans in their march upon 

Paris. My cousin, Mrs. , has lost her two only sons — both killed on 

the same day — December 21. Besides other English friends and relatives 
fighting on the British side, I have also a young German cousin fighting 



284 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

on the other side. He has been so badly wounded in his throat that the 
vocal chords have received such an injury as to lead to the loss of his 
voice, and his career as a barrister is probably at an end. His poor mother 
is a widow and has only one other son, who is very delicate. 

The writer has during the past six months come 
across instances of the loss of an only son, but all these 
agonies count as nothing to your colourphobic emo- 
tionalists, who must, at any price, be spared their 

shock regardless of the sufferings of others. Now 
ask these men what they would offer the Empire as a 
substitute for the coloured troops whose employment 
against the enemy gives them " the shock,'" and you 
will find that they have nothing to offer but their 
colour prejudice. 

What, for instance, could the leader-writer of the 
East Rand Express offer to the Empire in place of the 
generous help tendered to it by the Maharajah of 
Mysore, a lad of only eighteen years of age, who besides 
the services of his men gave the " trifle " of £330,000, 
or in place of the present of the Nizam of Hyderabad, 
who contributed £396,000 towards the cost of the 
Hyderabad contingent ; or the Maharajah Scindia 
of Gwalior, who handed to King George, as a Christmas 
present for the troops, a ''tiny fleet" of forty-one 
motor-ambulances, four motor-cars for officers, five 
motor-lorries and repair wagons, and ten motor-cycles ; 
or to come nearer home, and to deal with a more 
modest gift, the two hundred bullocks which Chief 
Molala Mankuroane, near Kimberley, gave General 
Botha to feed the Union troops ? 

And' when these liberal sacrifices are made by black 
men for the safety of the Empire, including British 
South Africa, one is constrained to ask: Where are 
those loud-mouthed pen-men who, possessed of more 
pretension than foresight, wrote bombastic articles 
in the Transvaal Press before the war, threaten- 
ing that '"South Africa will cut the painter," and 



HELP -OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 285 


'' paddle her own canoe/' if men and women in Europe 
made themselves a nuisance by advocating ideas of 
justice in favour of the blacks ? General Botha 
confessed last September that the South African 
Government tried to, but could not, borrow more 
than £2,000,000; that the Imperial Government had 
come to the rescue and helped the Union out of its 
embarrassment with a loan of £7,000,000 " of British 
money. When from his seat in the Union House of 
Assembly the Prime Minister announced this failure, 
why did not these secessionists come forward and 
display their paddling " capacity ? What has 
suddenly become of them ? 

Is it not about time that the Empire recognized 
the unprofitableness, and eyen the ruinous policy, of 
these gentlemen, and that it ceased paying so much 
attention to those whose views are distorted by 
colour prejudice, whose object is to inflict unnecessary 
harm on the minds, bodies and spirits of loyal subjects of 
the Crown ? One cannot help saying that if their career 
in this respect is not checked, their evil policy will land 
the Empire in a tangle of difficulties from which its 
rescue will require the highest statesmanship, much ex- 
penditure of treasure, if not also the shedding of blood. 

We have already stated that coloured men are 
serving the Empire at the front, but mainly in capaci- 
ties that do not involve their recognition. We have 
recently read of the trial of two coloured men at 
Willowmore, in the Cape Province. They were said 
to have expressed the view that if coloured persons 
are not fit to fight for the Empire '' in a war originating 
entirely among Europeans," they could not be con- 
sidered fit to drive military wagons in the same war. 
Recruiting of military drivers was in progress at the 
time, so they were charged under martial law, and 
sentenced to nine months, with hard labour, for ob- 



286 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA. 


structing the recruiting work. In this case our diffi- 
culty is that, not being a lawyer, we are not able to 
draw the fine distinctions between legal phrases. 
But to our untutored lay mind it seems that if to 
give expression to such logic (whereby ten drivers 
may think twice before enlisting) is a crime under 
martial law, then it should be over ten times more 
criminal, under the same law, for a Government to 
refuse the offer of service, in the same war, of 18,000 
warriors and thereby barring the enlistment of a 
possible 80,000. 

One of the best replies to colour sentimentalists 
which we have ever read on this subject is quoted 
from New York Woyld by the Crisis (Professor Du 
Bois's paper) of the same city. Says the New York 
World 

The German Ambassador has announced to the United States that 
he is " unconditionally opposed " to the use of coloured troops. This 
is a curious prejudice on the part of the diplomatic representative of a 
Government that is seeking to bring Turkey into the conflict and trying 
to persuade the Turk to instigate a " holy war " in Egypt and India 
against all non-Mohammedans, 

When Germany went to war with the British Empire she must have 
expected to fight the British Empire, and not merely a selected part of 
the population, the colour of whose skin happened to meet the approval 
of Berlin. 

It is natural enough that Great Britain should bring up her Indian 
troops, who, by the way, are as completely identified with the Aryan 
race as the Prussians. But no matter what their race may be, they are 
part of the Empire and part of Great Britain's regular military power. 

If Germany were at war with the United States her troops would have 
to meet our Negro Cavalry, than whom there are no better soldiers in 
uniform. 

German denunciation of the Indian troops is as futile as German denun- 
ciation of the Japanese as " yellow-bellies." It is too late to draw the 
colour line in war. That line was erased more than fifty years ago by 
Abraham Lincoln in that noble letter to the Springfield Convention : 
" And there will be some black men who can remember that, with silent 
tongue and clenched teeth and steady eye and well-poised bayonet, they 
have helped mankind on to this great consummation." 

One South African writer to the Press had humanita- 
rian reasons against the employment on the Continent 
of coloured troops from India. He said that 70,000 
of them will be like a morning meal to the trained 



HELP ^ OF COLOURED RACES REJECTED 287 


soldiers of Germany. This sympathetic view does not 
appear to be shared by German writers to the Berliner 
Tagehlatt, who have a high regard for the ferocity 
of '' these Eastern devils."' Apparently this is the 
only German view which is in harmony with the 
dispatches of Generals French and Joffre. His 
Majesty the King has since been to the front, where, 
in the presence of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, Sir 
Pertabh Singh and other high Imperial officers. His 
Majesty personally decorated Havildar Darwan Sing 
Negi (an Indian) of the 39th Garhwal Rifles, with the 
Victoria Cross, and we need hardly add that V.C.'s 
are not awarded for fun. 

On the first Saturday in March, 1915, King George 
went to Aldershot and acted as starter in. the big 
military race in which over 500 soldiers competed. 
Her Majesty the Queen was also present and graciously 
distributed the prizes. The race was won by Private 
Stewart, a black trooper from Jamaica. Even the 
Coldstream Guards have their coloured private in 
training for the front ; but South Africans inform 
you that the heavens will fall if coloured troops are 
sent against the white Germans, who, from the begin- 
ning, never scrupled to send black warriors against 
the British. 

In regard to the award of the V.C. to Indians, many 
writers sent letters to the Press claiming that it was 
unprecedented for coloured warriors to wear the V.C. 
Whitaker and similar publications might have told 
them that a Native African sergeant of the West 
Indian Regiment wears the V.C. won on the Gambia 
River as long ago as 1892. 



CHAPTER XXII 

THE SOUTH AFRICAN BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 

I slept and had a vision ; and what was it about ? For lo and behold, the 
sky was covered with a dark cloud on which was impressed the number 
15, and blood issued from this cloud. Thereupon I beheld General 
Jacobus De la Rey returning to his Lichtenburg home without a hat 
on his head, and he was closely followed by a carriage full of flowers. 
V ^ Niklaas Rensburg (the Boer Prophet). 

W HEN the war broke out, there was no question, 
as far as one section of the whites were 
concerned, as to the duty of South Africans, but the 
majority of the unofficial Dutch and German sections 
were for remaining neutral and taking no part whatever 
in the struggle, either for or against the Crown. Among 
the Backvelders there appeared to have been some 
misunderstanding as to whether the South Africans 
were subjects or merely friends of the British Govern- 
ment. This bewilderment became more confusing 
during the interval between the outbreak of the war 
and the meeting of the Union Parliament. All kinds of 
ideas were expressed in the Press. The progressive 
section, mainly English, urged not only that South 
Africa had no alternative but to join the struggle, 
but they actually raised volunteer corps, which they 
proceeded to equip for service in Europe. 

The regular volunteer forces of the country went 
forward at an early period of the campaign, and took 
the German ports. In connexion with the mobiliza- 
tion of these forces a regrettable catastrophe must be 

288 



BpERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 289 

recorded here. The long train in which the Kaffra- 
rian Rifles, mostly English, were going from King 
. Williamstown, via Capetown, to the front, was de- 
railed near the Hex River, and the gallant Riflemen 
had eight killed and about a hundred wounded. They 
are sons of the old English settlers of the Eastern 
Province, and some are members of European families 
who are very popular with the Natives of the Cape, so 
that white and black alike felt deeply the result of the 
catastrophe. General Lukin, who was in charge of 
the advance forces, quickly went up the South-Western 
Coast, * and forced the enemy to evacuate his ports 
and retreat inland towards Windhuk, the capital of 
the German Colony. General Beyers and the rest of 
the Defence Forces which were entrusted with the 
land operations also mobilized. The ^mobilization of 
this force took an extraordinarily long time, but it 
was satisfactorily explained that the marshalling of 
the citizen forces had to await the sanction of Parlia- 
ment, which did not meet until September 10, 1914. 

A special session of the Union Parliament took place 
on this day, at which General Botha, the Union Premier, 
made a great speech. 

In the course of his speech General Botha said that the Imperial Govern- 
ment had informed the Government that certain war operations in German 
South-West Africa were considered to be of strategic importance. The 
Imperial Government added that if the Union Govemmeiit could undertake 
these operations they would be regarded as of great service to the Empire. 
The Empire to which South Africa belonged was involved in one of the 

g *eatest and crudest wars which had ever befallen humanity. General 
otha continued : 

The Government, after careful consideration, had decided to comply 
with the request in the interests of South Africa as '\^ell as of the Empire. 
(Cheers.) There could only be one reply to the Imperial Government's 
request. There were many in South Africa who did not recognize the 
tremendous seriousness and great possibilities of this war, and some 
thought that the storm did not threaten South Africa. This was a most 
narrow-minded conception. The Empire -was at war ; consequently 
South Africa was at war with the common enemy. (Cheers.) Only two 
paths were open — the path of faithfulness to duty and honour — (cheers) — 
and the path of disloyalty and dishonour. A characteristic of the South 
African people was their high sense of honour, and they would maintain 

\ T 



290 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRIQV 


their reputation for honourable dealing untarnished. (Cheers.) To 
forget their loyalty to the Empire in this hour of trial would be scandalous 
and shameful, and would blacken South Africa in the eyes of the whole 
world. Of this South Africans were incapable. . . . _ 

With regard to the operations in South-West Africa, General Botha 
declared that there could be only one response to the Imperial Govern- 
ment's wishes unless they wished to contemplate a situation much more 
serious than that which now confronted them. The mode of operations 
could not be discussed in the House ; it must be left to the commander 
of the Union forces. ^ The Government had summoned Parliament so 
that the representatives of the people should know exactly what had 
happened. 

He wished them to understand the seriousness of the position, and 
to accept the responsibility which they would be called upon to accept. 
He placed himself with confidence in the hands of the House. General 
Botha detailed the German entry into Union territory at Nakob. This 
force was entrenched in kopjes in Union territory at the present time. 
He also described an affair at Schuitdrift in August. In addition to 
this, armed German forces were on the Union frontier in large numbers 
before there was any question of Union mobilization. The Premier said 
he quoted the foregoing to show the hostile attitude adopted by Germans 
in the neighbouring territory. 

He next referred to the White Paper on the diplomatic proceedings 
on the ei^e of war. « These documents, he declared, showed that if ever 
Great Britain entered upon a war with clean hands it was this war. It 
was abundantly clear that Great Britain did not want war, and did her 
utmost to maintain peace ; but war was forced upon them. Only when 
it became impossible, without loss of prestige and honour, to remain out 
of war did the Imperial Government take that supreme step. (Cheers.) 
By the Imperial Government's decision the whole Empire was involved in 
the war. (Cheers.) He emphasized that the war was not a war of aggran - 
disement or for the acquisition of land, but that it was undertaken out of a 
sense of duty and in discharge of solemn treaty obligations to defend other 
nations who were being trampled upon, and whose territory was being 
violated. He wished the House to realize that South Africa's future 
was being decided on the battlefields of Europe. ... 

He appealed to South Africans to be tolerant with each other at the 
present time. No one could blame the Dutch South African who did not 
feel exactly as the British South African felt. It did not follow that Dutch 
South Africans were disloyal. There was no question of disloyalty. 
Although there might be many who in the past had been hostile towards 
the British flag, he could vouch for it that they would ten times rather 
be under the British flag than under the German flag. 

Great confidence had been reposed in the people of South Africa. 
They had received a constitution under which they could create a great 
nationality. Great Britain had given them this constitution, and* ever 
since had regarded them as a free people and as a sister State. As an 
example of how the Imperial Government treated them, General Botha 
said that last July the Union Government wanted to raise a loan of 
/4, 000, 000. They had raised only two millions. As things were it would 
be fatal to go into the money market just now, so the Imperial Govern- 
ment had now come to the assistance of the Union Ciovemment and *had 
lent the Union £7,000,000. (Loud cheers.) That was the spirit of co- 
operation and brotherhood which invariably animated the Imperial 


^ General Beyers. 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 291 


towards the Union Government. Notwithstanding its own difificulties, 
the Imperial Government had come forward and helped the Union Govern- 
ment out of its embarrassment. (Cheers.) 

In conclusion, the Premier said he felt it was the duty of South Africa 
to assist in relieving the sufferings and privations inflicted by the war. 
The Government therefore proposed to offer South African products like 
mealies and tobacco for the soldiers, and brandy for medical purposes. 
The farmers had already come forward with offers of products, and the 
Government would undertake their dispatch. General Botha indicated 
that the matter would be dealt with more fully later, and closed his speech 
with an eloquent expression of his belief that South Africa would acquit 
herself honourably in the eyes of the world. 

Opposition Views 

. Sir Thomas Smartt, Leader of the Opposition, said the message which 
the Prime Minister by his speech had given to the Home Country would 
send a thrill of pride through the Empire — a thrill of pride at knowing 
that m the day of danger South Africa had been true to her trust and 
had remembered her obligations as well as her privileges of free citizenship 
(Cheers.) 

Mr. Cresswell, the Labour Leader, urged that an expedition should be 
sent to fight side by side with the Allies on the Continent. 

General Hertzog said that iGeneral Botha's motion had come as a 

g 'eat surprise, and moved the adjoiynment. Ott^r members supported 
eneral Hertzog, but the motion for the adjournment was rejected by 
85 votes to 12. 

After this short session of Parliament, enthusiastic 
meetings were held throughout the country. Those 
in the cities were mainly attended by citizens of 
English descent. Strong resolutions of confidence in 
the Union Government, and of approval in the pro- 
posed expedition to German South-West Africa, 
were passed at these meetings. At country meetings, 
however, the enthusiasm was in the opposite direction. 
There, the resolutions condemned the Government's 
military policy, and General Botha was roundly 
accused of not taking the country into his confidence. 
When the loyalists urged that the Parliamentary 
representatives of the critics, who, by the way, enjoy 
manhood suffrage, had authorized the Government 
policy, the growler^ replied that their members did 
not consult their wishes. 

General Botha made it as plain as the Dutch language 
could put it that the Germans had been in camp near 
Nakob in their own territory. That they left their 



292 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

Nakob base on the German side of the Border and 
came over to the Union territory for water, and pro- 
ceeded to entrench themselves- amongst the ridges 
and kopjes which commanded the water-holes, and 
that in addition to the duty of the Union as part of the 
Empire, this military trespass on the part of the 
German forces further strengthened the case for an 
expedition into German South-West Africa. 

At these Backveld meetings the story about the 
Germans crossing the border was characterized as a 
bit of ministerial concoction. Clever geographical 
students, who mounted the platforms with maps in 
their hands, were reported to have demonstrated to the 
satisfaction of their auditors that the new map show- 
ing the .German position was falsified by the railway 
surveyors and t*hat Nako^) Slid was clearly depicted 
in the old maps as laying in German territory." The 
Dutch reporters, however, do not state that the ridges 
and kopjes referred to by General Botha were also 
stated to be on the German side of the line according 
to the old maps. So that the position was like this : 
at first the Boers would not sanction an expedition 
against the Germans until the latter invaded Union 
territory, and when the Government proved by means 
of police reports that the Germans had actually 
crossed into Union territory the critics accused the 
Ministry of telling untruths. This, then, must have been 
the cause of so much delay in mobilization, and which 
Ministers had to contend against. It must be added, 
however, that most of the meetings mentioned took 
place in Transvaal. At the Cape the discontent was 
almost insignificant, whilst as much of it as had existed 
promptly ranged itself on the side of the Government 
when the " Free '' State and Transvaal hoisted the 
standard of rebellion. 

Matters went ahead somewhat after the meeting of 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 293 

Parliament. But a rude awakening awaited the 
people of the Union, if not the peoples of the Empire, 
when they got up one September morning and read 
the following correspondence relating to the resigna- 
tion of General Beyers, the head of the Union forces : — 

General Beyers's Extraordinary Attitude 

Ex-General Beyers to General Smuts 

Pretoria, 

September 15, 1914. 

Honourable Sir, — You are aware that diuing the month of August 
last I told you and General Botha by word of mouth that I discovered 
the sending of commandos to German South-West Africa for the purpose 
of conquering that territory. I was on the point then of resigning, but 
hearing that Parliament would be called together I decided to wait, hoping 
a way out of the difficulty would be found. To my utmost surprise, how- 
ever, Parliament confirmed the resolution adopted by the Government — 
namely, to conquer German South-West Africa, without any provocation 
to the Union from the Germans. The Government must be aware that 
by far the great majority of the I>utch-speaking^ people of the Union 
decidedly disapproved of our crossing the frontier, and that two conferences 
of commandants recently held at Pretoria bore eloquent testimony to 
this. I challenge the Government by an appeal to the people, without 
making use of compulsion, to obtain another result. 

It is said that Great Britain has taken part in the war for the sake of 
right and justice, in order to protect the independence of smaller nations, 
and to comply with treaties, but the fact that three Ministers of the British 
Cabinet have resigned shows that even in England there is a strong minority 
who cannot be convinced of the righteousness of a war with Germany. 
History teaches us, after all, that whenever it suits her interests, Great 
Britain is always ready to protect smaller nations, but unhappily history 
also relates instances in which the sacred rights of independence of smaller 
nations have been violated and treaties disregarded by that same Empire. 
In proof of this I have only to indicate how the independence of the South 
African Republic and Orange Free State was violated, and of what weight 
the Sand River Convention was. It is said that war is being waged against 
the barbarity of the Germans. I have forgiven, but not forgotten, all the 
barbarities perpetrated in this our own country during the South African 
war. With very few exceptions, all farms, not to mention many towns, 
were so many Louvains, of which we now hear so much. 

At this critical moment it is made known in Parliament that our Govern- 
ment was granted a loan of £7,000,000 by the British Government. This 
is very significant. Any one can have his own thoughts about this. In 
the absence of legitimate grounds for the annexation policy of the Govern- 
ment you endeavour to intimidate the public by declaring that the Govern- 
ment are in possession of information showing that Germany has decided, 
should the opportunity arise, to annex South Africa. My humble opinion 
is that this will be hastened if from our side we invade German territory 
without having been provoked thereto by the Germans, and as to the 
alleged German annexation scheme, this is nothing more than the result 
of the usual native suspicion attending such matters. The allegations 
made in Parliament- — namely, that the Germans have already violated 



294 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA. 


our frontier — are ungrounded. See the report of the Information Bureau, 
corroborated by Colonel Maritz ^ and his officers, who are on and near the 
frontier. Apparently the Government longed for some transgression 
by the Germans of German South-West Africa, and have been disappointed 
in this, for so far not a single German soldier has crossed our frontier, as 
you know very well. The report is perfectly correct regarding an involun- 
tary transgression of the frontier some time ago and the tendering of 
an apology for so doing. 

Whatever may happen in South Africa, the war will be decided in Europe 
in any case, so if Germany triumphs and should decide to attack us, then 
even Great Britain would be unable to help us. We shall at least have 
a sacred and clean cause in defending our country to the utmost provided 
we stay inside our borders. Meanwhile, in case we are attacked, our 
people will arise as one man in defence for its rights. Besides, I am con- 
vinced that a commando of about 8,000 Germans, as at present stationed 
in German territory, will not be so foolish as to attempt an attack on our 
country. I have always said, and represented at Booysens recently, that 
if the Union is attacked Boer and Briton will defend this country side by 
side, and in such case I will deem it a great honour and privilege to take 
up my place at the head of our forces in defence of my fatherland. I 
accepted the post of Commander-General under our Defence Act, the 
first section of which provides that our forces can only be employed in 
defence of the Union. My humble opinion is that this section cannot 
thus be chjfhged by informal resolution of Parliament, such being con- 
trary to Parliamentary procedure. So the Defence Act does not allow 
us to go and fight the enemy over the frontier, and to light the fire in this 
way. But should the enemy penetrate into our country it will be our 
duty to drive him back and pursue him in his own territory. 

In his speech General Botha speaks about the help we had from the 
Belgians and French after the South African War. That assistance is 
still appreciated by us and by all our people, l 5 ut we must not forget that 
the Germans also were not behindhand, and have always been well-dis- 
posed towards us. So why should we deliberately make enemies of them ? 
As circumstances are, and seeing no way of taking the offensive, and as I 
sincerely love my country and people, I must strongly protest against 
the sending of Union citizen forces over the frontier. Who can foretell 
when the fire the Government has decided to light shall end ? For the 
reasons enumerated above I feel constrained to resign my post as Com- 
mandant-General, as also my commissioned rank. For me this is the 
only way of faith, duty, and honour towards our people, of which mention 
was made by General Botha. I have always tried to do my duty to my 
best convictions, and it sorely grieves me that it must end in this way. 

I remain, etc., 

[Signed) C. L. Beyers. 

General Smuts to Ex-General Beyers 

Pretoria, 

September 19, 1914. 

Sir, — It was with regret that I received your letter of the 15th inst. 
tendering your resignation as Commandant-General of the Union Defence 
Forces and as officer of the Union. The circumstances under which the 


^ Maritz was at this time on active service, nominally as a Colonel at 
the head of a British regiment, but in reality as a General in the German 
Army, using British arras, stores, railways, and telegrams in the service 
oi the Kaiser. 



BQERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 295 

resignation took place and the terms in which you endeavour to justify 
your action tend to leave a very painful impression. It is true that it 
was known to me that you entered objections against war operations in 
German South-West Africa, but I never received the impression that you 
would resign. On the contrary, all information in the possession of the 
Government was communicated to you, all plans were discussed with 
you, and your advice was followed to a large extent. The principal officers 
were appointed on your recommendation and with your concurrence, 
and the plan of operations which is now being followed is largely the one 
recommended by yourself at a conference of officers. My last instructions 
to you before I left for Capetown to attend the special session of Parlia- 
ment were that in my absence you should visit certain regiments on the 
German border, and it was well understood between us that immediately 
the war operations were somewhat further advanced and co-operation 
among the various divisions would be practicable you should yourself 
undertake the chief command in German South West Africa. The attitude 
of the Government after this remained unchanged, and was approved 
by Parliament after full discussion. 

One w'ould have expected that that approval would make the matter 
easier for you, but now I find that you anticipated that Parliament would 
disapprove the policy of the Government, and that your disappointment 
in this became the reason for your unexpected action. In order to make 
your motives clearer the reasons for your resignation were explained in 
a long political argument which wa^ immediately communicated to the 
Press and came into the hands of the Government fong after publication. 
I need not tell you that all these circumstances in connexion with your 
resignation have made a most unpleasant impression on my colleagues 
and myself. 

But this unpleasant impression has even been aggravated by the alle- 
gations contained in your letter. Your bitter attack on Great Britain 
is not only baseless, but is the more unjustifiable coming as it does, in the 
midst of a great war, from the Commandant-General of one of the British 
Dominions. Your reference to barbarous acts during the South African 
War cannot justify the criminal devastation of Belgium, and can only 
be calculated to sow hatred and division among the people of South Africa. 
You forget to mention that since the South African War the British people 
gave South Africa her entire freedom, under a Constitution which makes 
it possible for us to realize our national ideals along our own lines, and 
which, for instance, allows you to write with impunity a letter for which 
you would, without doubt, be liable in the German Empire to the extreme 
penalty. As regards your other statements, they have been answered 
and disposed of in Parliament. From these discussions it will be apparent 
that neither the British Empire nor South Africa was the aggressor in 
this struggle. War was, in the first instance, declared by Austria-Hungary, 
and thereafter by Germany, under circumstances in which the British 
Government employed its utmost powers to maintain the peace of Europe 
and to safeguard the neutrality of Belgium. So far as we ourselves are 
concerned, our coast is threatened, our mail-boats are arrested, and our 
borders are invaded by the enemy. This latter does not occur, as you 
say, in an involuntary manner and with an apology, which latter, at any 
rate, was never tendered to our Government. Under these circumstances 
it is absurd to speak about aggressive action on the part of the Union, 
seeing that together with the British Empire we have been drawn, against 
our wish and will and entirely in self-defence, into this war. As regards 
your insinuation concerning the loan of seven million pounds which the 
British Government was kind enough to grant us, and for which the 



296 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRIC^ 


public of the Union, as evidenced recently in Parliament, are most gratefuj 
it is of such a despicable nature that there is no necessity to make any 
comment thereon. It only shows to what extent your mind has been 
obscured by political bias. You speak about duty and honour. My 
conviction is that the people of South Africa will in these dark days, when 
the Government, as well as the people of South Africa, are put to the 
supreme test, have a clearer conception of duty and honour than is to be 
deduced from your letter and action. For the Dutch-speaking section 
in particular I cannot conceive anything more fatal and humiliating than 
a policy of lip-loyalty in fair weather and of a policy of neutrality and pro- 
German sentiment in days of storm and stress. It may be that our peculiar 
internal circumstances and our backward condition after the great war 
will place a limit on what we can do, but nevertheless I am convinced 
the people will support the Government in carrying out the mandate of 
Parliament, and in this manner, which is the only legitimate one, fulfil 
their duty to South Africa and to the Empire and maintain their-dearly 
won honour unblemished for the future. Your resignation is hereby 
accepted. 

{Signed) J. C. Smuts. 

When the war broke out, the Natives of South 
Africa, who, in many instances, are much better in 
touch wHh the .backvelders than the Dutch editors 
who reside in towns, fully expected a general revolt 
among the unofficial section of the Boers. But 
when Holland declared her neutrality the Natives 
began to breathe more freely, as that declaration led 
them to believe that the Boers would not now rise. 
When General Beyers's resignation was published, 
however, the Natives again felt that the outbreak 
was only a matter of days. In the country, especially 
the Orange Free '' State, our people are helplessly 
mixed up with the Boers, and it can readily be under- 
stood that they felt somewhat insecure, notwithstand- 
ing the Government's assurances. One native farmer 
sent the following letter to the author in England : — 

I am glad to find that your newspaper, the Tsala ea BathOy is as up 
to date in your absence as when you are at home, It was the first to 
publish General Botha's statement to the Natives (about the war), and 
again the first to comment on the treacherous resignation of General 
Beyers. The resignation was handed to the Government on the 15th, 
and the Tsala commented on it on September 19, before the daily papers. 
I think that the daily papers were still trying to reconcile their previous 
articles about the loyalty of all white South Africans with the resignation. 
The fact that General De la Rey was shot while travelling in the same 
car with General Beyers on the same day that Beyers resigned is cited 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 297 

as a further proof of the unswerving loyalty of all the Boers. One cannot 
understand how these white folks reason ; but the attitude of the In^erial 
Government and of the Union Government is incomprehensible. Fancy 
telling the loyal Rhodesians to come and fight under a man like that ! 
General Botha ought himself to go to the front, if a civil war is <^o be 
averted, leaving General Smuts to watch the next Dutch move and nip 
it in the bud. 

One of the tragedies of the first few weeks of the 
war was the death of Senator General De la Rey of 
Lichtenburg, who was accidentally shot by a Rand 
policeman on the night of September 15, while travel- 
ling with General Beyers in a motor-car. 

His funeral took place on September 20, at Lichten- 
burg, and was attended by a large number of Boers, 
including the Prime Minister, General Smuts, General 
De Wet, and other Dutch generals. Mourners and 
their friends came to Lichtenburg by the ordinary 
train and by the special* train which conveyed the 
body from the Rand. They came in all manner of 
-Vehicles from the surrounding farms, and, for the 
first time, the Dutch Reformed Church at Lichtenburg 
opened its doors to the blacks, who came to pay their 
last respects to, and view the body of, a popular Boer, 
known among the Bechuana as Koos La Rey. A 
commando of 400 Burghers came from Wolmaran- 
stad on horseback. English merchants from Johan- 
nesburg were also present, including Senator Tucker, 
representing the Unionist party. The body was 
draped with two flags — the flag of the old Trans- 
vaal Republic and of the old '' Free '' State Republic. 
Besides the officiating clergy, three Dutch statesmen 
also spoke at the funeral service, viz., Generals Botha, 
Beyers, and De Wet. 

The loyalists returned from the funeral service to 
their path of duty, while the sullen section of the 
Dutch remained at Lichtenburg to fan the embe^rs 
of rebellion — though it must be added that the opera- 
tions at Lichtenburg were more or less in camera. 



298 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA ^ 

At 8 o'clock on Monday morning, September 21, the 
day after General De la Rey's funeral, General 
Kemp, standing on General Beyers's motor-car, pre- 
sided over a gathering of ^ from^^'^Soo to 1,000 Boers. 
The Rev. Mr. Broeckhuizen opened the meeting with 
a short prayer. A verbatim report of this prayer 
appeared in the Dutch papers as follows : '' Lord, we 
thank Thee that Thou rulest our nation through these 
dark days and stormy circumstances. We have 
buried our hero and have gathered to speak in his 
spirit. We thank Thee for such a man as General 
Beyers, beside whom his friend was shot. We thank 
Thee also for General De Wet and General Kemp, 
and that Thou hast given us such men to lead us. 
We stand, for our people. Help us, O Lord, towards 
the salvation of 5 ur people^and the salvation of our 
fatherland. Amen. ' ' 

The three personalities mentioned in this prayer 
became active participants in the rebellion, and so did 
the reverend gentleman who prayed. In fact the latter 
sent a letter to his congregation three months later 
from the Johannesburg prison, resigning his pastorate 
at Pretoria. 

In opening the meeting the chairman disclaimed 
all ideas about a revolution. They had come to con- 
sider calmly a decision by the Union Parliament to 
invade German South West Africa ; but while he was 
speaking, some one produced a flag of the old Free 
State Republic, and General Kemp rebuked the person 
for this puerile action. Whether the rebuke was due 
to the fact that the Boers had not yet then made up 
their minds to rebel, or because Maritz's plans with 
the Germans on the south-western frontier had, not 
yet matured, we do not know Anyway, General 
Beyers, in supporting the' chairman, added that his 
cause was a clean one and there was no necessity for 



^PERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 299 

nonsensical flag-waving. They were there, he said, 
to pass a calm resolution and forward it to the Govern- 
ment. 

One Mr. van der Hoff inquired why General Beyers 
resigned. The chairman replied that the reasons were 
clearly set forth in the letter of resignation. At the 
request of the gathering the Rev. Mr. Broeckhuizen 
read the letter aloud, the reading throughout being 
punctuated with cheers. It does not appear, however, 
that General Smuts's reply was also read, presumably 
because there was no call for it. 

(ieneral Liebenberg wanted to know what the situa- 
tion was that morning ; then he proceeded to say : 
'' The enemy is already inside our borders. Some 
one had disturbed a beehive and the result is what 
might have been expectedf. We ha^e three generals 
before us " — (apparently in addition to the speaker) — 

yesterday we buried the dearest of them all. I want 
a reply from Generals De Wet and Beyers. We are 
British subjects, and it is not improbable that the 
Government might instruct their officers to call us 
out to-morrow." 

General De Wet, the man of the hour, then stepped 
on to the motor-car to speak, prefacing his speech 
with the remark that he could not help remembering 
his brother buried the previous day. Then, in begin- 
ning his speech, he said( Burghers and Brethren, — 
If there be any one present who is not a brother, let him 
walk away. Since nobody is leaving I conclude that 
we are brothers all. If there be any stepbrothers 
here, they are all welcome, but a traitor always reminds 
me of Judas." Proceeding, he said that " the Ger- 
mans had been made enemies by the Government. 
The fire was already burning, so let us adopt a calm 
resolution, expressing the will of the people. Not 
that I wish to praise my people, but we are not going 



300 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA^ 

to soil our hands, no not even to show our loyalty. 
Let us be cool, remembering' that we have many 
sympathizers in South Africa and elsewhere. If 
any one wished to gnash his teeth and hath no teeth 
his best course is to consult the dentist for a set. 
Better an hour too late than a minute too early. 
We do not all reside near a telephone or a telegraph 
office and cannot be conversant with what goes on 
at the frontier. Even when Generals Beyers and 
Kemp are asleep, keep a watch and remain cool. I 
believe there are numerous Christians among us. 
When it is time the whole of the people will rise up 
like to-day.'" 

Some one wished to know if it was possible to recall 
the forces already at the border. That, saidHhe chair- 
man, would be ^cided lat^r. 

The Rev. Mr. de Klerk said General Beyers"s letter 
translated the real feeling of the people. Even though 
Generals Beyers, Kemp, and De Wet had resigned, 
they still remained Generals. They honoured other 
officers who had the pluck to resign with General 
Beyers (whose names the Government had not pub- 
lished but had suppressed), including Lieutenant 
Kol Bezuidenhout. One Field Comet to the speaker's 
knowledge had resigned, but his name had not been 
annoimced." The reverend gentleman then be- 
tray^ his flagrant ignorance of South African history 
when he said : '' Our people were never known to 
have robbed any one of land. All (?) their land had 
been acquired by means of purchase or barter. The 
history of South Africa was a spotless one." After 
stating that the Afrikander must express his disdain 
with respect to the Jameson raid and the unrighteous 
annexation of the Republics, he concluded : Blood is 
flowing in Belgium, but is it in the interest of South 
Africa to draw the sword on that account ? It 



^OERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 301 


may be in the interests of the Empire ; but the hem 
of my coat is nearer to my body than the coat itself. 
The sending of troops to DamaraJand is nothing but an 
attack upon a people that had done us no harm. I 
believe it to be our duty to sit still." 

Rev. Mr. Van der Merwe, who said he spoke on 
behalf of the young people, said all their officers should 
resign like General Beyers and others. He hoped 
that any officers present would resign before noon 
that day. 

General De Wet pointed out that the appointment 
of any Jack, Tom, and Harry might follow such whole- 
sale resignations, for although he lived in the Free " 
State he held a share in the affairs of that (Transvaal) 
Province. 

General Beyers : ''I consider my 6wn resignation a 
sufficient protest. The other representatives of our 
people should remain at their posts." (Cries of No, 
no, no.") 

Rev. Mr. Broeckhuizen implored the people to stand 
by their Commander-in-Chief, General Beyers, as he 
himself was going to do, no matter how barking lap-dogs 
raved. Despite any letters that some fellows might 
write to the papers to the contrary, the world must 
know that the people stood behind General Beyers. 
Although he was still going to suffer — (as he truly did) — 
they should support him till everything was in order. 

As a parting shot General Liebenberg said : When 
peace was declared in 1902 he had such implicit 
faith in the late General De la Rey that he (General 
Liebenberg) remained quietly on his farm and was 
always obedient to him. He expected these troubles 
since 1912. And now it had become impossible to 
keep quiet much longer. According to the latest 
accounts the Germans were 150 miles across the 
boundary. (A voice : We will beat them back.") 



302 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

The speaker : The same thing was said when they 
were in Belgium, but they are now marching on Paris/' 

A revised resolution was then put : it declared the 
reported action of the Government to be '' in conflict 
with — 

'' I. The wishes of the overwhelming majority of 
the population of the Union/' (An extravagant 
assertion considering that there are six million 
people in the Union and that the meeting only repre- 
sented a section of the half a million Boers. 

A reply was demanded from the Government before 
September 30, so as to get it in time for consideration 
at a subsequent people's gathering. ) 

When this was carried, General De Wet said in 
parting '' If there be still a few lap-dogs here, 
friends, don't i£ke any notice of them. They have 
now no teeth. We are now more united than when 
the difference between the Government and ' the 
People ' first began." (Obviously General De Wet 
was here alluding to the rupture between the Govern- 
ment and General Hertzogin 1912, when, to the disgust 
of himself and his followers, the latter was forced to 
leave the Ministry. One reason why the Natives' 
Land Act was passed was in order to " dish the 
Whigs" and placate the Hertzogites.) 

sit )|c 4e j|c )|c 

On September 24, General De Wet held another 
meeting at Kopjes, Orange " Free " State. The 
Resident Magistrate of Parys attended the meeting 
and read a telegram from the Government announcing 
that no Burghers would be forced to proceed to the 
front ; that only volunteers would be asked to serve. 
This wire, however, did not satisfy the Burghers. 
They contended that the expedition to German South- 
West Africa was a policy of setting the prairie on 
fire, and it did not matter who the originator pt the 



pOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 303 

fire was, for when it was raging the Burghers would 
be called upon to quench it. 

After the meeting had passed votes of condolences 
to Mrs. De la Rey, General De Wet said he was opposed 
to a war against a nation that had done him no harm. 
Whether or not the Government used volunteers, 
who/' he asked, '' would be responsible for the harm 
that as likely to follow a provocation of the Ger- 
mans ? This expedition is to coax them into our 
country. You may go if you like," added General 
De Wet emphatically, "but I won't." 

Now, the Boers in certain respects are not unlike 
the Natives ; thus when a grey-haired Native, or a 
Boer, addresses a crowd of his compatriots and says to 
them, "You may do such and such a thing if you 
like, but I will not," it is^understood by them to be a 
roundabout way of saying, "Take my advice and 
don't." And so when such a declaration is made by a 
man as influential amongst his people as General De 
Wet, it is not surprising that the crowd shouted in 
response, " We won't go. Let the authorities adjust 
the result of their own bungling. Ninety-two men in 
Parliament voted for the expedition without consulting 
their constituents, and we are not satisfied." There- 
upon some one shouted, " Where is Mr. Van der 
Merwe ? " Others said, " Call him; perhaps he is in 
the crowd. " So the stentorian voice of a Boer equipped 
with a powerful pair of lungs called out, "Van der 
Merwe ! Van der Merwe ! ! Van der Merwe ! ! ! " and 
then announced " He is not here." 

Mr. Van der Merwe is the Parliamentary representa- 
tive' of the district where the meeting was held. 

In conclusion, General De Wet said : " Here is the 
Magistrate and there is the prison. If I have said 
anything that I cannot substantiate I' will willingly 
surrender myself into their hands/' 



304 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA^ 


The motion against the expedition was then put, 
512 Boers voting for it and only two against it. 

? 4c ? ? ? 

Es ist sehr weit nach Tipperary, 

Es ist weit zu gehn ; 

Es ist sehr weit nach Tipperary, 

Meinen liebsten Schatz zu sehn. 

Leb' wohl, Piccadilly, 

Adieu, Leicester Square, ^ 

Es ist sehr sehr weit nach' Tipperary 
Doch dahin sehnt mich sehr. 

" Tipperary '* in German, 

s 

On September 29, General Botha addressed his 
constituents at a Transvaal station called Bank, on 
the Kimberley- Johannesburg line. A thousand 
Burghers met the Premier as he left his special travel- 
ling salo9n for the place of the meeting and gave him 
a rousing recepti6n. Beforfe General Botha spoke, he 
permitted his opponents (to the evident displeasure of 
the majority of the audience) to unbosom their alleged 
grievance. Appreciative addresses were read ex- 
pressing confidence in the Government and approval 
of the expedition to German South West Africa. 
Addresses opposing the expedition were also read ; 
they included one that was said to be a petition from 
Boer women, strongly objecting to the expedition. 
The reading of these addresses took up much time and 
must have tried the patience of the Premier's ad- 
mirers who were anxious to hear the speech of the 
day. They called on the readers to '' Shut up ! " 
but the Prime Minister urged them to give both sides 
a chance. 

After these lengthy preliminaries, the Prime Minister 
amid cheers delivered a speech justifying the projected 
invasion of German South West Africa, in obe^ence 
to the desire of the Imperial Government. He re^ 
minded the Boers that the expedition had been voted 
for by a Parliament elected by them. He added that 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 305 

% 

he personally would always lead his people along the 
white man's path of honour and Christianity, and that 
he would never choose the coward's way of disloyalty 
and treason. The whole of the speech might be 
summed up in a few lines taken out of General Smuts's 
reply to General Beyers : 1 cannot conceive any- 

thing more fatal and humiliating than a policy of lip- 
loyalty in fair weather and a policy of neutrality and 
pro-German sentiment in days of storm and stress." 

The Prime Minister further asked what reliance 
could be placed on Germany who ravaged Belgium, 
He pointed out that when the late President Kfuger 
arrived in Europe — a fugitive from his country — the 
French and the Belgians welcomed him, while the 
Kaiser would not even see the old man. ^ 

General Botha made softie remark!^ at this meeting 
which displeased the coloured loyalists. Without 
wishing to defend the Premier, the remark, in our 
opinion, was justifiable. It was more of a recruiting 
speech than a declaration of policy, and naturally 
he had to appeal to the sentiments of his hearers. 
Nothing goes down so easily with the northern 
Boers as colour prejudice, and in the circum- 
stances General Botha was justified in denouncing the 
neutrality party, who advocated a policy of sitting 
with folded arms until German South West Africa 
fell into their lap like a ripe apple. The Imperial 
Government," he went on to say, '' could send a force of 
50,000 coolies ^ to capture the German Colony, and 
tell thenr that, after the war, they could make a 
coolie settlement there. Would this have been in 
the interest of the country ? (Cries of No, no.) But 
instead, the Imperial Government had asked the 
Union to do the work, aftd I am proud to have been 
asked." 

^ A contemptuous term for British Indiams. 



3o6 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Nor could Englishmen, having regard to the circum- 
stances, very well take umbrage at another remark 
of General Botha's in the same speech. It was, we 
believe, a clever appeal to the feelings of Backvelders 
when he said : Can you rely on the Kaiser's promises ? 
In the South African war, when I gave the English a 
sound thrashing at Colenso, what did the Kaiser do ? 
He sent a telegram to Lord Roberts advising him how 
to stab me in the back, by marching across the ' Free ' 
State." 

The danger that would follow a German victory 
in South Africa was so lucidly put by the Premier 
that many waverers were at once imbued with the 
patriotic spirit. Carping criticism, it is true, con- 
tinued, l?ut many wobbling defence officers resolved 
to follow General Botha' to the uttermost. The 
opposition, on the other hand, told the Boers that the 
official element among them who supported the 
Government did so, not through patriotic motives, but 
for the sake of their jobs. The most credulous section 
among the Boers seemed to believe that the Germans 
would never invade British South Africa. This 
section at first was baffled by the contention of the 
neutrality party that the Government was maligning 
the Germans ; but they were soon disillusioned. 

On September 26, Colonel Grant took possession of 
some water-holes on the line of advance. This step 
was essential to the success of the proposed expedition. 
The enemy retired, but only to mount their artillery 
on some ridges overlooking the camp of the advancing 
British forces. From those positions the enemy 
shelled our troops till their ammunition was exhausted. 
The British casualties amounted to sixteen killed, 
forty-three wounded, eight missing, and thirty-five 
captured. These figures would be insignificant on 
the battlefields of Europe, but to lose so many men 



IgOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 307 


in only one attack in South Africa was almost appalling. 
This reverse having brought home to the waverers the 
danger of procrastination, a fresh spirit set in among 
the passive loyalists. But the opposition was busy. 

3|c I|e }|( ? 

On the same day that General Botha carried the day 
at Banks, Commandant Vermaas addressed over 100 
Burghers at a Transvaal farm called Korannafontein. 
There were present such notable Dutchmen as Mr. Sarel 
Du Plessis and Mr. Cornelius Grobbelaar. They were so 
provocative that Commandant Vermaas asked the 
meeting with some warmth : '' Who do you believe 
about the occurrences at the German frontier, the 
Government who receive all the police reports, or General 
Beyers ? All I can say js that you will vieep when 
General Botha gets shot, for I know what he did for 
this country. And if you disbelieve the Government, 
what will be the use of telling you that the Germans 
were the aggressors ? '' 

Sensible speeches were delivered by Mr. D. Louw 
and others. This speaker deeply regretted the resigna- 
tion of General Beyers, and said : He had charge of 
all the Defence secrets and it cost us much money to 
let him travel about this country and abroad ; and 
at a critical moment, when we are face to face with 
trouble he tenders his resignation.'' The meeting, 
however, insisted that the Union Government were the 
delinquents. The Germans, they said, had crossed 
the border accidentally, for which little relapse they 
had tendered a suitable apology. Some speakers 
said that the Ministry's ambitious annexation policy 
was actuated by a desire for posthumous fame regard- 
less of the blood of Afrikanders, which was more 
precious than the deserts of German South West 
Africa. The issue would be decided on the battlefields 
of Europe, so why the premature invasion^ and why 



3o8 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA, 

the forgery of the railway map in respect to the posi- 
tion of Nakob where the German forces are ? '' Sup- 

posing the Germans win in Europe/' asked one of the 
speakers, " what would be our position after the raid ? 
We prefer to follow General Beyers." 

While Commandant Vermaas, the Government 
emissary, was still speaking, some one shouted : " Three 
cheers for General Hertzog ! " These were vociferously 
accorded. 

At this stage one of the young bloods came out with 
a brand-new defence of Germany's desertion of the 
Boer cause during the South African war. Germany, 
he said, had a ten years* treaty with England and could 
not go to war against the British, who were there 
again too smart for us. When Queen Wilhelmina 
was in Germany \he Kaiser said to her: "Tell the 
Transvaal not to declare war against England just 
yet 

Commandt. Vermaas : " And you call it friendship. 
Why promise us help when they had a treaty with 
England ? '' 

After some dialogues, in which the Bible was quoted 
on both sides, for and against the expedition, a resolu- 
tion was adopted, by eighty-nine votes to twenty- 
three, against the invasion of German South-West 
Africa. 

An aged Dutch gentleman remarked that the late 
Republican Government made a mistake in first 
sending an ultimatum to the English, and in attacking 
German South-West Africa the Union Government was 
repeating the same mistake. 

« 

OoM : Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach ? 

Speak, nephew, were you by when it Ipegan ? 

Neef : Here were the servants of your adversary 

And yours, close fighting ere I did approach : 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 309 

I drew to part them ; in the instant came 
The fiery Tielman, who swung about his head 
And breathed defiance in my ears . . . 

While we were interchanging, thrusts and blows 
Came more and more, and fought on part and part 
Till the Judge came, who parted either part. 

According to Het Westen of Potchefstroom, over 
a thousand Burghers packed the Lyric Hall on Friday, 
October 2, 1914, to hear General De Wet speak 
against the invasion of German South West Africa. 
Apparently this was an attempt by the Backvelders to 
challenge the enthusiasm of the townspeople in the 
various centres who had been passing loyal resolutions 
in favour of the expedition and of confidence in the 
Union Government. Not all the supporters of the 
Backvelders' cause could gain admission to the hall, 
which was packed almost to suffgcation before the 
hour of meeting. Several prominent Free " Staters 
were on the platform with General De Wet. A rabble 
of roughs had been brought from the outskirts of the 
town by opponents of the cause, so the paper says, 
to interrupt the proceedings and to create disturbance. 
They waited outside and were '' responsible for a 
state of things which is wholly unknown in the history 
of South Africa." 

Admission was by ticket, and everything was in 
order up to eight o'clock, when Commandant Erasmus 
took the chair. General De Wet was carried shoulder 
high into the meeting amid thunderous applause. 
The local police force had had timely notification that 
the meeting was arranged for, but the paper com- 
plains that only seven of them were to be seen about 
the building, and these seven apparently were seized 
with a blindness of a mysterious kind, for they saw 
nothing of the disturbance that occurred during the 
meeting, except when it was thought necessary to 
arrest an Afrikander. 



310 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


The chairman having opened the meeting, Pro- 
fessor Duvenage welcomed the visitors from near 
and far, including the ladies in the gallery. The 
professor, alluding to the English meeting which 
took place in the town hall a few evenings before, 
observed it was not interrupted by any one. This 
meeting, he said further, had been called to discuss 
the South African aspect of the war. It had nothing 
to say about the operations in Europe ; all that they 
wished to protest against was the invasion of German 
South West Africa. Hereupon dead cats, brickbats, stale 
eggs and other things were hurled into the hall through 
the windows, occasioning an indescribable commotion. 
Angry Afrikanders jumped out of the windows and 
seized sorpe of the offenders and administered such 
a sound thrashing 'to one of them that he only escaped 
serious bodily harm by lying down. 

The dead cats, bricks, etc., were picked up and 
thrown out of the window ; but, as the interrupted 
meeting was about to proceed, some one disconnected 
the electric cable and plunged the building in darkness. 
The confusion became confounding. Matches were 
struck in several parts of the hall, and it was with 
considerable difficulty Generals De Wet and Kemp 
were heard suggesting an adjournment of the meeting 
to the Dutch Reformed Church Square. The crowd 
passed out of the Lyric Hall and marched in the 
direction of the Dutch Reformed Church Square, 
closely followed by the hooting band of interrupters, 

A handy carriage procured from somewhere served 
as a platform and, under the light of Africa's silvery 
moon, 1,500 Burghers crowded round the improvised 
platform while the turbulent interrupters screeched' 
some English national airs. Generi Kemp, who 
warned the crowd against the danger of being struck 
by missiles, asked them to squat on the ground, so 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 311 

as to be better able to hear General De Wet. The 
guerrilla General, having stepped upon the carriage- 
platform, said to the audience : ''Yes, sit down 
flat so that those disturbance-makers may hurl their 
missiles at me on top of the carriage. (Laughter.) 
Some of those who came to interrupt peaceful 
Afrikanders may yet become children of death before 
the evening is far gone. (Boos from the opponents.) 

" That may be European or Downing Street civiliza- 
tion, but it is unknown in South Africa ; but let us 
hope that folks with such upbringing will yet live 
to change their manners. Those who are standing 
against the wire fence are asked to come nearer and 
not be afraid, if not, then let them go to their homes, 
wherever those may be, and leave us alone. I promise 
you that within a year •this disrespectful C:rowd will 
have been taught to respect the rights of Afrikanders. 
That I promise you, and the Afrikander will do it 
with his own hands. (Loud cheers.) If I am wrong 
in this, there is your jail, your police and the Magis- 
trate, and let them punish me if I am guilty.'* (Voices : 

They dare not touch you ! "). 

Proceeding the General went on to refer to an article 
of the Volkstem, the Ministerial organ of Pretoria. 
The Volkstem, he said ''had for long been crowing 
King, King, but the sun will rise when the cock will 
cease to crow. (Laughter.) The Government has 
now issued regulations under which we may not 
speak, but, friends, bear in mind, and the Volkstem 
must know, that we have not yet a Popedom, and we 
are not yet in Russia, for you will search in vain for 
the truth in a newspaper." — (We would very much 
like to know the opinion hereanent of the Backveld 
newspaper organ in which we read of this meeting. — 
Author.) — " Friejjds, a newspaper can do a lot of harm, 
and much of the condition in which our country finds 



312 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


itself may be attributed to the Volkstem — that Govern- 
ment adulator [de regeering se vetsmeer document). 

Whereas our people could freely express their views, 
the Government now wants to prevent an expression 
of their bitter feelings over the land-robbery now 
engaged in at German South West/' (At this stage, 
an egg thrown fronr the back of the crowd fell un- 
comfortably near the speaker and aroused some 
angry remarks in the crowd, but the speaker con- 
tinuing said : Never mind, friends, I have another 

coat. The Government talk of calhng out volunteers 
only ; but many children were surreptitiously torn 
away from their mothers, and many were taken against 
the will of the parents. I am ready to bow under the 
law, but not when it is broken by the Government. 
Our law duthorizes us to defend our borders, not to 
wage war outside/' After some more quarrels, 
interruptions, blows and fights in several parts of 
the crowd, the police arrested a Burgher. But some 
men who surrounded the police rescued the prisoner 
and, it was said, assaulted a policeman.' 

Proceeding with his speech after the interruption. 
General De Wet said : We can never thank the 

English sufficiently for their gift of self-government 
under a free constitution approved by His Majesty 
the King ; but it was not implied thereby that we 
should go and commit a theft." More interruptions, 
during which it became impossible for the speaker 
to continue. In the turmoil cheers were given for 
General De Wet, who, resuming at length, remarked : 
''You fellows, along the wire fence, the Lord have 
mercy on you when I turn my back. You will be 
responsible if blood flows in this meeting to-night. 
As I have had a better up-bringing I am keeping the 
people back from tackling you. I have not been 
brought up in what they call Waaihoek at Bloemfontein. 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 313 


It was not General Botha's place to get this country to 
snatch chestnuts out of the fire for England. They 
bluff us with the statement that the coolies ^ might 
be asted to come and take German South West Africa 
for themselves. Well, let it be so. They will be 
in their proper surroundings there amongst the Hot- 
tentots. And if it amounts to that, Kafirs armed 
with assegais can be sent against them, for as it now 
happens the Kafir has got to work for the coohe in 
Natal." 

After more disturbances, the General said he was 
not so certain that the police were doing their duty, 
and he would have to report them to the Government. 
These men were paid out of his pocket and the pockets 
of other Burghers, but the people got no protection 
from them. And when m self-defence an Afrikander 
remonstrates with the hooligans, he is arrested. He 
thought there was a Magistrate present, and can they 
not get protection ? 

Assistant Magistrate Cronin then ascended the 
carriage and said : "I expect you all to give the 
Burghers a fair opportunity to speak." 

Concluding General De Wet said : ''It was not a 
question of Hertzog v, Botha. The burning point 
was German South West Africa. The reason why 
the people were unarmed was because the Govem- 
ipent did not trust them. Things being so, they 
should not be surprised that the people had no con- 
fidence in the authorities. Many had guns but no 
cartridges ; how then could the country be expected 
to defend itself ? " 

Mr. Paul Schutte moved the resolution which was 
put to the meeting, protesting against the expedi- 
tiou to German South West Africa. " At this time," 
says the Dutch paper that reported these proceedings, 

^ Contemptuous South African term for British Indians. 



314 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


the throats of the interrupters, not being made of 
steel, had become so hoarse and weak that their inter- 
ruption was ineffective, except, perhaps, when they 
dealt out blows/' 

Mr. Paul Schutte said, in moving the resolution, that 
the hand of God was pressing heavily on the land : 
poverty, misery, and the drought finishing the people. 
Was it not dangerous for the Government to embark 
on such an undertaking without the ^backing of the 
unanimous will of the people ? 

Mr. Serfontein (presumably one of the two members 
of Parliament of that name, said he was going to 
speak the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 

He said he would give documentary proof that a 
map has been forged; he did not know by whom. 
It is said that «Nakob is "in Union territory, yet 
according to the original Government map, that 
place was on German territory. '' There is the map," 
he said, apparently flaunting it, " satisfy yourselves." 

Proceeding he said : " General Tobias Smuts had 
declared that he knew the Government decision was 
against the wishes of his constituents, yet he wanted 
to support the Government in favour of the war. 
General Beyers, who knew all the circumstances, denies 
that Nakob is in Union territory. In these circum- 
stances, how can we, as Christians, ask God to guide 
us in the undertaking ? " 

Professor Postma and the Rev. Mr. De Klerk, the 
two next speakers, quoted the Bible to show that to 
proceed against German South West Africa was 
forbidden by Providence. Mr. Furstenburg, who 
followed, called on the Burghers to maintain the 
high character of their people. After a few words of 
thanks from General Kemp to the audience for 
their attendance, the i,ooo Burghers, amid inter- 
ruptions, signified their objection to the expedition 



BOERS AND THE EUROPEAN WAR 315 

by standing on one side. This act closed a most 
exciting meeting. 

One of the opponents, the paper says, smacked a 
Dutch •lady on her mouth and caused it to bleed. 
She coolly turned round and gave him such a heavy 
blow with her fist that he collapsed, sapng in the 
purest English accent as she did so : It takes but 

one woman to fight a Britisher.'' Another of the 
interrupters had to be taken to the hospital. 

Commandant Els and Mr. Rocco de Villiers, the 
''Free" State lawyer, on their way to the meeting, 
had a mishap with their motor-car, fifteen miles dis- 
tant, so that they reached Potchefstroom on foot, 
after the meeting. 

'' Three cheers for our brown people," shouted one 
of the disturbers. '' You •have forgo 4 :ten theT coolies," 
retorted a Dutch lady. 

After the meeting, the opposition formed itself 
into a procession and marched through the town. 
They also delivered short speeches confirming what 
had been done, at a previous meeting of townspeople, 
which supported the expedition. They booed General 
De Wet and his followers, and dispersed after giving 
cheers for Generals Botha and Smuts and singing 
the National Anthem. 

One item on the programme of the meeting was 
an address which should have been presented to 
General Beyers, the ex-Commander-in-Chief, but as 
for sorhe reason or other he was not present, the ad- 
dress was sent to him instead. It congratulated him 
on his resignation, a step which the signatories were 
sure he would never regret, as it was in accord with 
the peace-loving and the most pious part of his 
people, who resent the '' capture " of German South 
West Africa. Further, they thanked him for com- 
ing to address them and hoped he would deliver a 



316 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

speech that would shut the mouths of mischief- 
makers who accused him of being a German agent, 
A similar drama was enacted at Johannesburg 
during the following week, when General De Wet 
carried his campaign of protest into the stronghold 
of the sections in favour of the Government expedi- 
tion. His meeting at the Lewis Cinema was only in 
progress a few minutes when bricks, etc., came through 
the fanlights, and the lights went out. The meeting 
was adjourned to Church Square, where supporters 
of the Government gained the upper hand and over- 
powered the neutral party so completely that 
General De Wet, Mr. Serfontein and Rev. Mr. Postma 
could not be heard. Cheers were continually given 
for the King, for Generals Botha and Smuts, and the 
speeches Vere drowned by 'the patriotic airs sung by 
the throng, and the meeting proved a complete fiasco. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

THE BOER REBELLION 


Arm, arm, Burghers ; we never had more cause ! 

The Goths have gathered head ; and with a power 
of high-resolvM men, bent to the spoil. 

They hither march amain, under conduct 
Of Manie, son to old Gerit Maritz, 

Who threats in course of his revenge, to do 
As much as ever Black Bambata did. 

• » 

T he following telegram was published by the 
South African Government : — 


October 13, 1914. 

Ever since the resignation of General C. F. Beyers as Commandant- 
General of the Citizen Force, there h-ave been indications that something 
was wrong with the forces in the north-west of the Cape Province, which 
were placed under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel S. G. Maritz. 

The Government at once arranged to send Colonel Conraad Brits to 
take over the command from Lieutenant-Colonel Maritz. 

On the 8th instant Colonel Brits sent a message to Maritz to come in 
and report to him. To this message Maritz replied in a most insolent 
manner that he was not going to report to anybody. All he wanted was 
his discharge, and Colonel Brits must come himself and take over his 
command. 

Colonel Brits then sent Major Ben Bouwer to take over the command. 

An Ultimatum 

oh arrival at Maritz's camp. Major Bouwer was taken prisoner with 
his companions, but personally was subsequent^ released and sent back 
with an ultimatum from Maritz to the Union Government to the effect 
that : 

Unless the Government guaranteed to him before ten o'clock on Sunday 
morning, October ii, that they should allow Generals Hertzog, De Wet, 
Beyers, Kemp, and Muller to meet him where he was, in order that he 
might receive instructions from them, he would forthwith make an attack 
on General Brits's forces and proceed further to invade the Union. 

Major Ben Bouwer reported xthat Maritz was in possession of some 
guns belonging to the Germans, and that he held the rank of General 
commanding t^he German troops. 


317 



3i8 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 

r ~ 

He had a force of Germans under him in addition to his own rebel 
commando. 

He had arrested all those of his officers and men who were unwilling 
to join the Germans, and had then sent them forward as prisoners to 
German South West Africa. ' ^ 

Major Bouwer saw an agreement between Maritz and the Governor 
of German South West Africa guaranteeing the independence of the 
Union as a republic, ceding Waffish Bay and certain other portions of the 
Union to the Germans, and undertaking that the Germans would only- 
in vade the Union on the invitation of Maritz. 

Major Bouwer was shown numerous telegrams and helio messages 
dating back to the beginning of September. Maritz boasted that he had 
ample guns, rifles, ammunition, and money from the Germans, and that 
he would overrun the whole of South Africa. 

In view of this state of affairs the Government is taking the most vigorous 
steps to stamp out the rebellion and inflict condign punishment on all 
rebels and traitors. A proclamation declaring martial law throughout 
the Union will appear in a Gazette Extraordinary to-day.' 

This treachery was more fully described by a Cape 
Attorney — a subaltern in the Citizen Force under 
Maritz — jn the following letter to the Transvaal 
Leader : 

" We arrived at Kakamas," he writes, " after a long and wearisome 
trek through Bushmanland, a company of about eighty, consisting mostly 
of raw farmer youths. 

" We remained in camp for about six weeks, and, in the first week of 
October, orders came from Maritz for 200 troops, comprising the Calvinia, 
Clanwilliam, and Kenhardt men, to strike camp and trek toward the 
German border. 

"Two days later the remaining men in camp, consisting of the Kakamas 
members of the Defence Force, some Kakamas Volunteers, and our own 
troop, altogether about 300 men, likewise trekked in that direction. After 
two days' riding, we came to a farm called Blokzijnputs, where we met 
the first 200 men. 

"The village of Keiraoes was crowded with German troops; our men 
and officers were walking and talking among them on the friendliest 
possible <erms, and the German and the old Transvaal Republican flags 
were flying side by ^ide. 

" In a very short time we were made fully aware of the position. The 
act of treachery which led up to it was being freely discussed by every- 
body, and then I realized that ' we ' — I say ' we,' for 1 never for one second 
doubted that most of our men would refuse to turn rebels — had been 
caught like rats in a trap. 

" But a further shock awaited me. About half an hour after our 
arrival we were summoned to fall in before Maritz, who then addressed 
the crowd. 

"He first spoke about the Government wishing to force him over the 
border with a lot of untrained and unarmed youngsters, and went on to 
say that he refused to sacrifice their lives. 

" After a bitter attack on the characters of Generals Smuts and Bothag 


' "U. G. No. io-'i5,'' pp. 22-^4. 


THE BOER REBELLION 


319 


he denounced the British Empire as a whole, and wound up by declaring 
himself an out and out rebel. 

" He stated that he was going to fight against the Union and Imperial 
Governments for the independence of South Africa, and called upon all 
who were unwilling to follow him, or ' had the English feeling in them/ 
to stand bn one side. 

" Ten Loyal out of Six Hundred " 

" This speech was followed by a short speech in German by the repre- 
sentative of the Governor- General of German South-West Africa. 

" Then followed a scene which can never be forgotten by those who 
witnessed it. All our men started to shout, cheer, and throw up their 
hats — all except ten^f us, who stood there looking, I suppose, more dead 
than alive. Just irnagine, out of 600 men actually trekking towards the 
border to invade German territory only ten refused to turn rebels. 

" However, after recovering somewhat, we approached our captain 
(Beukes) and told him we were not going to Join Maritz, and asked him 
to see that we were not sent to Windhuk. This Maritz had given us to 
understand was the only alternative to joining him." 

The writer proceeds to state that after being kept prisoners for some 
time they were set free forty miles from a Union troop frontier post. — 
Central News.'^ 


In the '' F^ee '' State 

General De Wet organized large commandos and 
took possession of the town of Heilbron, held up a 
train and captured Government stores and ammuni- 
tion, some prominent Burghers being among his active 
supporters ; so much so that, a week later, when Pre- 
sident Steyn was endeavouring to get him to Bloem- 
fontein, in order to persuade him to discuss terms of 
peace with General Botha, he had no fewer than 3,000 
men under him. 

General De Wet publicly unfurled the rebel banner 
in October, when he entered the town of Reitz at 
the head of an armed commando. Some of his men 
assaulted the postmaster, who was in the act of tele- 
graphing the news to the capital, and destroyed his 
instruments. The guerrilla General addressed an open- 
air meeting, which he ordered the Magistrate to attend. 
When that official refused to attend a rebel meeting 
General De Wet sent six men to compel him, and to 
use violence if necessary. 

» General Smuts, after this, christened the rising as " the Five Shilling 
Rebellion." 



3 ao NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

t 

Having thus forcibly secured the attendance of 
the Magistrate, he proceeded to unbosom himself 
as follows : '' Ladies, gentlemen, and burghers, I 

have asked you to come together here to explain to 
you my position/' 

Then turning to the Magistrate, he said : Magis- 

trate, I want you to get a shorthand writer to take 
down every word that I am going to say, because 
whatever I may do in future I can never commit a 
greater act of rebellion than I have already com- 
mitted. I am going through to Maritz, where we 
will receive arms and ammunition, and from there 
we are going to Pretoria to pull down the British flag 
and proclaim a free South African republic. All 
those who side with me must follow me, and those 
who side with the Goverfiment must go to it. I 
signed the Vereeniging Treaty and swore to be 
faithful to the British flag, but we have been so down- 
trodden by the miserable and pestilential English 
that we can endure it no longer. His Majesty King 
Edward VII promised to protect us, but he has failed 
to do so, and allowed a Magistrate to be placed over 
us who is an absolute tyrant, and has made it im- 
possible for us to tolerate it any longer. I was 
charged before him for beating a native boy. I only 
did it with a small shepherd's whip, and for that I 
was fined 55.^ (Here the Magistrate interrupted him 
and asked him whether he did not plead guilty. He 
admitted that he had pleaded guilty, and ordered the 
Magistrate to keep quiet, and he would allow him to 
say as much as he liked when he had finished speak- 
ing, and if he would not hold his tongue he would 
make him hold it.) 

'' But," continued General De Wet, after the 

I See also Appendix to the " Report Of the Select Committee on Re- 
bellion," S.C. I- 15 - 



THE BOER REBELLION 


321 


% 

Magistrate had delivered judgment, instead of repri- 
manding the boy and ordering him in future to be 
obedient and do his duty, he looked at the Native 
as if he would like to give him a kiss. The Magistrate 
is a brother-in-law of a man for whom I have the 
greatest respect and who is very dear to me (President 
Steyn), and for that reason I will give him another 
chance, otherwise I would have taken him prisoner 
and handed him over to the Germans. The Magis- 
trate's father was one of the staunchest pillars 
of the church, and if he were alive to-day he would 
be heart and soul with me in this movement, and 
condemn the dastardly act of robbery which the 
Government are going to commit. 

''The ungodly policy of Botha has gone on long 
enough; the South African Dutch are going to stand 
as one man to crush this unholy scandal. Some of 
my friends have advised me to wait a little longer 
until England has received a bigger knock, but it is 
beneath me and my people to kick a dead dog. Eng- 
land has got her hands full enough. I hate the lies 
which are continually being spread to the effect that 
thousands of Australians, Canadians and Indians 
can be sent to fight us. Where will England get them 
from ? She has enough to fight her own battles. 

" I am going through the town to take the follow- 
ing six articles, viz., horses, saddles, bridles, halters, 
arms and ammunition, and if anybody should refuse 
to hand to my men these articles, if they should be 
found in their possession, I will give him a thrashing 
with a sjambok. I now order the storekeepers to 
go and open their shops and I will select men fo go 
round and take whatever I require apart from the 
above articles, and they will give receipts for what 
they take ; and if they do not open their shops willingly 
I will open them in another way. My advice to you 



322 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

C' 

English is to remain quiet in your houses and not 
interfere with my men, and if you don't, beware 
when I come back ! I have got my eight sons and 
sons-in-law here with me, and the only peopte left 
on my farm are my wife and daughter. Anybody 
can go and see if they like, and I request the Magis- 
trate to give them any help they may require, if he 
will do so." 

Mr.Wessel Wessels, a famous '' Free " State politician, 
having taken possession of Harrismith in the name of 
General De Wet, was alleged to have had the audacity 
to send letters to Chief Ntsane Mopedi, of the Harri- 
smith district, and to the Paramount Chief of Basuto- 
land, informing them that, with the assistance of the 
Germans, ^ the Boers were going to drive away the 
English and re-proclaim a Dutch Republic in South 
Africa ; and requesting those chiefs to remain neutral 
while the annihilation of the English was in progress. 
Only in case the English should arm the Indians, 
were they to mobilize their warriors (the Basu- 
tos) on the side of the Boer-German combination. 

Dit is ver weg na Tippererie, 

Dit is ver om te gaan ; 

Dit is ver weg na Tippererie, 

Om my hart se punt te zien. 

Go6n dag, Pikadillie 
Vaarwel, Lester-squeer ; 

Dit is ver, ver weg na Tippererie 
Maar my hart le net daar. 

" Tipperary " in Cape Dutch. 

'the Dutch, like other people, also had a prophet. 
Many stories were told since the outbreak of the war 
by the seer. Van Rensburg, and among other visions 
credited to him he was said to have dreamt of tte 
impending " removal of the British yoke from the 
necks of Afrikanders," and the forthcoming expulsion 
from South Africa of the English people and their 
flag, with the aid of Germany. 



THE BOER REBELLION 


323 


Whatever might be said about what the prophet 
Van Rensburg had foretold in other respects, the 
prophecies attributed to him in regard to the Euro- 
pean War resemble other war prophecies (credited 
to French, Russian, and German women), in that 
the wish, it seems, is often father to the thought. 

The lower middle-class Boers attach great weight 
to the guesses of native bonethrowers. It is strange 
sometimes when a Malay charmer is prosecuted for 
imposing on the public to find Dutch witnesses giving 
evidence of the healing powers possessed by the 
accused and emphasizing the absurdity of prose- 
cuting a man who benefited them and their relatives 
more than many a certificated medical man. 

Moreover, the forecasts credited to Van Rensburg 
seemed to have found* ample cofroboration in the 
cabled newspaper accounts of the rapid advance of 
the armies of General Von Kluck through Belgium 
towards Paris, and in the minds of such gullible 
patriots as the South African Boers this telegraphic 
war news acted like manure on a fertile field. 

The Seer Van Rensburg 1 

The seer was Nicolas van Rensburg, of Lichtenburg, a simple and 
illiterate farmer. He was a prophet not without honour in his own country . 
On many occasions he had given proof positive of the possession of extra- 
ordinary powers of prevision, so men said and believed. It would be out 
of place here to give examples of the many telepathic forecasts (or happy 
guesses) with which he was credited. It is certain that he had a great 
hold on the imagination of thousands of his people. During the Anglo- 
Boer War some commandos, when Van Rensburg was in their lager, 
neglected all precautions. If " Oom Niklaas " declared that the English 
were not in the neighbourhood, it was a waste of energy to post sentries 
and keep a look out. 

His reputation had, strangely enough, not diminished since the war. 
This was perhaps due to several causes. He had never attempted to 
exploit his " gift " and impressed most of those who canae in contact with 
him with his apparent sincerity. If he duped others, it seemed he also 
duped himself. Moreover, and this was perhaps the secret of his con- 
tinued success, his " visions were invariably symbolic and mysterious ; 

* ; 4 " U,G, No, io-'i5/' 



324 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


they possessed an adaptability of character that was truly Delphic. In- 
deed, nis hearers were compelled to put their own interpretation upon his 
visions. The seer seldom pretended to imderstand or explain them 
himself. 

General De la Rey took a great interest in the seer, who had belonged 
to his commandos during the Anglo-Boer War. Van Rensburg* again 
had the greatest admiration for General De la Rey, and had frequently 
hinted to his circle that great things were instore for the General. One of 
his visions had been well known to General De la Rey and his friends for 
some years. The seer had beheld the number 15 on a dark cloud, from 
which blood issued, and then General De la Rey returning home without 
his hat. Immediately afterwards came a carriage covered with flowers. ^ 
What these things portended, Van Rensburg could not say. He believed 
that they signified some high honour for the General. . . . 

When the war at last broke out, the effect in Lichtenburg was instan- 
taneous. The prophecies of Van Rensburg were eagerly recalled, and 
it was remembered that he had foretold a day on which the independence 
of the Transvaal would be restored. One of&cer actually called up his 
men to be in readiness on Sunday, August 9, as that would be the day- 
on which the prophecy would be fulfilled. After this, too, certain indivi- 
duals could be seen daily cleaning their rifles and cartridges in order to be 
ready for the day. Several men in this district claimed to be in regular 
communication with German South-West Africa before August, 1914. 
Within a week of the decjjaration of wa^ between England and Germany 
the district was further profoimdly stirred by the news (now become 
generally known) that a great meeting of local burghers was to be held 
at Treurfontein on August 15, and that certain local officers were com- 
mandeering their burghers to come to this meeting armed and fully equipped 
for active service. . . , 

The meeting was to be addressed by General De la Rey, and it was 
generally believed that the assembled burghers would march on Potchef- 
stroom immediately after the meeting. 

The prophecies of Van Rensburg had a great deal to do with the 
excitement which had been produced locally. The strange vision of the 
number 15, which had long been common knowledge, was now discussed 
with intense interest. The 15, it was said, signified August 15, the day of 
the meeting. That would be the day, which had been so lon^ expected — 
the day of liberation. Van Rensburg was now the oracle. His prophecies 
with regard to the great war had been signally fulfilled. Germany was 
at j^ips with England, and her triumph was looked upon as inevitable. 

The day had arrived to strike a blow for their lost independence. 
Van Rensburg assured his following that the Union Government was 
" finished." Not a shot would be fired. The revolution would be complete 
and bloodless. 

Between the loth and the 15th the plotters in Lichtenburg were 
actively preparing for the day.^ There is evidence that German seoret 
agents were worl^g in concert with them. The 15th would mark the 
beginning of a new era. When doubters asked how they could be so 
certain that the 15 signified a day of the month — and of the month of 
August in particular — they were scornfully if illogically told that " in God*s 
time a month sooner or later made no difference." 

The Government had been informed by its local supporters of these 


I General De la Rey was accidentally shot onlthe night of September 
15. The last house he stayed in was No. 15, and the funeral train that 
lirofight his body to Lichtenburg had a carriage full of floral tributeSt 




THE BOER REBELLION 


325 


alarming preparations. It was quite clear that an attempt was to be 
made on the 15th to start a rebellion. Everything would depend on 
the meeting which was to be addressed by General De la Rey. General 
De la Key's position in the Western Transvaal was unique. He possessed 
an unrivalled influence and was looked up to as the uncrowned King 
of the*West. His attitude at the meeting would sway the mass of his 
adherents and decide the question of peace or war. 

General Botha summoned General De la Rey to Pretoria some days 
before the meeting, and was able to persuade him to use his best endeavours 
to calm the excited feelings which had been aroused and to use his 
influence to see that no untoward incidents should occur. 

On Saturday, the 15th, the great meeting was held. About 800 
burghers were present. General De la Rey addressed them and explained 
the situation in Europe. He exhorted his audience to remain cool and 
calm and to await events. After the address " a strange and unusual 
silence " was observed. A resolution was passed imanimously expressing 
complete confidence in the Government to act in the best interests of 
South Africa in the present world-crisis. The address seemed to have 
had a very good eflect. The burghers appeared to have taken their 
leader's advice to heart, as they dispersed quietly to their homes. 

All danger of a rebellious movement had ap- 
parently been averted, but only for a- tiipe. 

The Potchefstroom Herald tells a story of what it 
describes as '' the inner history of a damnable plot,'* 
and of how near Potchefstroom ^ was to falling into 
the hands of the rebels through the treachery of 
Beyers and his accomplices on the night of September 
15, which was the date on which the late General 
De la Rey was killed. 

It is unquestionable (says the Herald) that Beyers, who was forced 
to admit that he was on his way to Potchefstroom when the accident 
happened, was to have started an attempt to overthrow the Government 
with the aid of the men, over 2,000 in number, who had just finished 
their period of three weeks' training in the Active Citizen Camp at Potchef- 
stroom. Both he and Kemp had resigned their positions, and, knowing 
the treacherous mission upon which he was setting out that night as the 
emissary of the German enemy, little wonder was it that at Langlaagte 
Beyers cowered with fear, and lost his nerve entirely, because he thought 
his own arrest was at hand. 

Continuing the account, the paper says : On the morning parade 
on Tuesday morning the rebel Colonels Bezuidenhout and Kock had each 
addressed their men in an attempt to imbue them with a spirit of revolt 
against their own Government. All the Dutch- speaking Afrikanders^ 
were advised not to volunteer for German South-West ; that was the 
job of the Englishman. The officers plainly said that they had no inten- 
tion of doing their duty : they had other fish to fry. And they permitted 

i The old capital of Transvaal where General De Wet and General 
Kemp held the dramatic meeting on October a, 1914. 




326 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


the few volunteers who stood out in spite of them to be jeered at by the 
" neutrals." The disgrace of that early morning parade scene must for 
ever be upon the traitors concerned. It was certain that dastardly influ- 
ences were at work, but thanks to the sterling loyalty of certain men from 
among the Dutch population, the plans of the conspirators were more 
or less known, and arrangements were made to checkmate them. All 
honour to these true patriots who took a big risk for the safety of the 
country. 

That evening a meeting of Britishers took place in Potchefstroom to 
discuss the situation (says the Herald)^ and it was^agreed that its serious- 
ness was such as to necessitate direct communication with General Smuts, 
which was duly carried out. For one thing, practically all Britishers 
were unarmed. How critical was the position, or how near potchefstroom 
was to complete disaster, was not then fully realized. On that night, too, 
there was another and more sinister meetmg in the town. It was at a 
certain house in Berg Street, where a number of residents, male and female, 
who can be named, expected the arrival of the chief conspirator. Then, 
too, at the Defence Force headquarters Kemp had stored a quantity of 
ammunition that was altogether out of proportion to the requirements 
of his district, and during the week there had been frequent communi- 
cations with the Lichtenburg " prophet." Beyers had arranged to reach 
the Defence Force at 3 a.m., where motor-cars waited. 

Later he was to have marched upon the town with all the armed 
men he coul(P bring unc^r his influence, knowing full well, by previous 
arrangement, that he could rely on the aid of rebels within Potchefst-room 
itself. So intense was the feelmg of danger in camp that night that loyal 
of&cers slept with loaded revolvers at hand and all the spare ammunition 
under the beds. The Union Jack was to be supplanted and the new 
Republic was to be declared with the Vierkleur flying — or would it have 
been the German flag ? That was the morning of September 16, and 
as showing the concerted character of the traitorous plans, it should be 
noted that the proclamation signed by the Governor- General of German 
South-West Africa, the " scrap of paper " used as a sop for the Boers, was 
dated for the self-same day. 

Plot Providentially Thwarted 

But the motor-car tragedy in the dark at Langlaagte was the second 
blow to this criminal plot (continues the paper), and when Beyers, trem- 
bling and unnerved, spoke through the telephone at midnight on September 
15, telling of the fatal shot, and that his journey had been cut short, those 
who had waited in the camp and in the town knew that, for the time being 
at any rate, the little game was up. Kemp, of course, at once tried to 
withdraw his resignation, but luckily General Smuts gave the snub direct. 
Already the names of local men to be terrorized, and even shot, were in 
the mouths of the irreconcilables — skulking cowards for the most part — 
of whom more must yet be written in the interests of public morality. 

That night Potchefstroom might easily have fallen into the hanas of 
the rebel crew, sharing the fate of the Free State towns or worse, and 
loyalists, both English and Dutch, must thank an ever- watchful I^vi- 
dence for being saved from a position of ignominy and humiliation. 

If all this be true/ and the Government had been 

^ The Herald^s story has since been conflrxned by the Government Blue 
Book on the Rebellion. 



THE BOER REBELLION 


327 


informed of it, one cannot understand why General 
Beyers, with his fingers steeped in treason, was let 
loose upon the community to poison the loyalty of 
the -Dutch along the country-side and to complicate 
the task of the Government. It seems that he should 
have been detained that evening, and thereby, having 
been turned from the path of suicide, other lives 
would also have been saved. When one considers 
the amount of harm that he was able to do subse- 
quently, it is staggering to think what the task of the 
loyahsts would have been had his plans been rein- 
forced by the success of this night plot. It would have 
given a link of tremendous power to the rebel move- 
ment throughout the country if they had captured 
the stores, munitions, and a ready army that awaited 
General Beyers's arrival at PotchcfstroomT. The fact 
that some Burghers were found organizing rebel 
commandos in the '' Free '' State and Transvaal 
even after the capture of General De Wet and the 
drowning of General Beyers ought to show the pre- 
vailing Backveld spirit up to the early months of 

1915- 

When the rebels were tried in Pretoria and elsewhere 
in January and February, Burghers crowded the 
law courts and rose to their feet, as if in token of their 
fellow-feeling with the prisonets, each time a rebel 
was placed in the dock. At Pretoria, this vaunting 
demonstration seems only to have been ended by the 
announcement of the Magistrate that if they did it 
again he would have to clear the court. It is not 
stated, however, whether the prisoners duly acknow- 
ledged the sympathy thus shown with a bow from 
the dock. One member of Parliament (not a rebel) 
is said to have swaggered into the Bloemfontein court 
and, after shaking hands with the prisoners, con- 
versed with them in an audible tone. 



328 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

Nothing better illustrates the unsatisfactory nature 
of the South African military appointments than the 
Press report that the English artillerymen who 
served under Maritz were in constant danger of their 
lives, and that, realizing this fact, they were compelled 
sometimes to keep their machine guns trained on 
their comrades. The poor men must have had an awful 
time, literally " sleeping with one eye wide open." 

When Colonel Maritz at length threw off the mask 
and openly proclaimed his treachery, he put these 
artillerymen under arrest and handed them over to the 
Germans as prisoners of war. 

Of course, if the Government of the Union was as 
well administered as was the Cape Government before 
it, such things would have been impossible, because 
only tried men with military experience would have 
been appointed to the command of the Union Forces 
— men whose loyalty was beyond reproach — that 
is to say, if high official appointments went by 
merit and not by favour. A professional lawyer 
like GenerallBeyers would have been the last person 
to get a position which should have been given to a 
trained soldier, of whom there are many in the coun- 
try. But as his appointment took place at a time 
when some English officials were politely removed 
from high positions to make room for influential 
Dutchmen, and in certain cases useless posts, such as 

Inspector of white labour/' and inspector of good- 
ness-knows-what (all of them carrying high emolu- 
ments), were created for political favourites, General 
Beyers's appointment caused no surprise, as the pitch- 
fork " had already become part of our Government 
machinery. But how such a man as Manie Maritz 
became a Colonel in the Colonial Defence Force is one 
of those things which, as^ Lord Dundreary would say, 
" no fellah can understand." 



THE BOER REBELLION 


3 ^ 


The man is not only said to have rebelled during 
the South African war, but he is also said to have 
escaped to German South Africa to evade the conse- 
quencTe, and that he dnly returned to British South 
Africa when the Boers got their constitution. And 
when British officers like Colonel Mackenzie and 
Colonel Lukin apparently acquiesce in an appoint- 
ment tha^ places them on a level with a man like 
that, the voteless black taxpayer who has no control 
over these appointments cannot be blamed for feeling 
perplexed at the turn events are taking. 

Here is an expression of this perplexity : The 
old chief Tshabadira asked the Government Secretary 
in 1913, at Thaba Nchu, How many kings have 
we ? Is there an English King and a Dutch King, 
each trying to rule in his own way ? •And since we can- 
not very well follow both, which one are we to obey ? '' 
Dutch and English colonists have ruled the Cape for 
forty years and no such questions were ever asked. 

If General De Wet were to be tried by a court of 
native chiefs, who followed the wheels of adminis- 
tration '' during the past five years, they would in 
all probability decide that the British Government, 
to which he pledged his allegiance, and the semi- 
Republican Government against which he rebelled 
are two entirely different bodies. They would pos- 
sibly reason that he pledged his allegiance to a Greater 
Britain — or to localize it, to a Greater Cape Colony, 
not to a Greater Transvaal. 

The Cape Colony is often reproached because native 
taxpayers within its boundaries have votes and help 
their white neighbours to elect members of Parlia- 
ment. But strange to say, when a revolutionary 
mob seized the South Afncan railways in 1914, it 
was the railway men of the much-abused Cape who, 
in spite of the native vote, dragged the Government 



330 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


out of a serious situation. Similarly when these 
high officers of the Defence Force in Transvaal and 
Orange Free State rebelled and joined the Germans 
with their commandos, the Dutchmen of the "Cape 
(presumably because they vote side by side with 
the Kafirs denounced the treachery in unmistak- 
able terms. The South African party at the Cape 
beat up its followers to the support of th.e Govern- 
ment, and the voice of the Cape section of the Dutch 
Reformed Church rang from pulpit and platform in 
denunciation of disloyalty and treason. But in the 
Northern Provinces, where white men are pampered 
and guarded by the Government against the so-called 
humiliation of allowing native taxpayers to vote, 
there the Rebellion, having been regarded with seeming 
approval, gained a marvellous impetus. 

And the strangest of all these things is how men 
with bank balances like the Dutchmen of Transvaal 
and the Orange Free '' State could fail to appreciate 
the debt they owe to the British Navy, by which the 
commercial routes from South Africa to the outer 
world are kept open to them, when practically the 
whole world is ablaze. 

The banner of revolt having been unfurled, the 
** Free State towns of Reitz, Heilbron, and Harri- 
smith being in the hands of Free State rebels, 
martial law was proclaimed, and General Botha, as 
forecasted in the native letter quoted in a previous 
chapter, assumed command of the Union Forces and 
squelched the upheaval. Altogether the rebellion 
cost South Africa some of the finest of its young 
men. Dutch, English, coloured and native families 
suffered the loss of their sons in the flower of their 
youth, including among many others, prominent South 
Africans, such as Mr. W. Pickering, the genersd secre- 
tary of the Kimberley mines, and Mr. Justice H<^ 
ley of Rhodesia, who each lost a son. 



THE BOER REBELLION 


331 


One loss which the Natives, judging by articles 
in their newspapers, will not easily forget is that of 
Captain William Allan King, the late Sub-Commis- 
sioner of Pretoria. He was shot by a rebel, on 
November 23, near Hamaanskraal, whilst helping a 
wounded trooper. In his lifetime his duties brought 
him in touch with employers of labour in the Pre- 
toria L^our District and with Natives from all 
over South Africa. A non-believer in the South 
African policy of least resistance, he was without doubt 
the ablest native administrator in the Transvaal Civil 
Service, and as such the vacancy caused by his death 
will be very hard to fill. He was an expert on Native 
matters, and no commission ever sat without his 
being summoned to give evidence before it. 

The Natives called Him Kho^i-ke-Nna,'' which 
means '' I am the Chief.'' A firm but just English- 
man, with a striking military gait, he would have 
been an ideal leader of the native contingents had 
the offer of native help been accepted by the Union 
Government. 

The casualty list on both sides exceeded one thou- 
sand. Over ten thousand rebels were imprisoned, 
of whom 293 leaders will be tried, the rest being 
detained up till the end of the trouble. 

I After various encounters with the Union forces 
under General Botha, General De Wet suffered a 
series of heavy defeats. Many of his followers sur- 
rendered, and his son was killed on the battlefield. 
He tried to escape to German South West Africa, but 
was overtaken and captured in Bechuanaland, with 
fifty followers, including his secretary, Mr. Oost, 
formerly editor of a Pretoria weekly paper. 

Considering his initial bounce and bluster. General 
De Wet's surrender was a particularly tame affair. 
Said the captive to the captor : I seem to know 



332 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

f 

you — are you not Jordaan ? '' Yes, General,"' 
replied the captor. I saw you at Vereeniging where 
we made peace." " Very well," rejoined the captive, 
" I must congratulate you on your achievemenf. It 
was very smart. Anyway, I am glad that I am taken 
by you and not by an Englishman."^ 

General Kemp succeeded in eluding his pursuers 
by means of forced marches across the Kalahari 
desert, and effected a junction with Maritz in German 
South West Africa ; but after only a few weeks' taste of 
German rule he returned to the Union and surrendered 
with his commando and all arms, evidently satisfied 
with British rule. Some of his men were wearing 
German uniforms. The prophet Rensburg, carrying 
a big umbrella, also surrendered with him. 

General 'Beyers was the first to succumb. Cornered 
by the loyal forces, he was driven up against the Vaal 
River in flood. With his pursuers on the one side 
and the raging torrent on the other, he was drowned 
in an ill-starred attempt to escape across that 
treacherous river. Parties were sent out to drag the 
river and search for the body, and a reward of £50 
was offered to the finder. Mrs. Beyers left Pretoria 
in a special train with a coffin on board, to join the 
search party. She was accompanied by a few relatives 
and friends, including one doctor of medicine and 
one minister of religion. They travelled along the 
Johannesburg-Kdinberley line as far as Maquasi, near 
the river, where they received tidings of the recovery 
of General Beyers's body. It was found by a Dutch 
farmer, who promptly claimed the £50 reward. 

A telegram to Pretoria brought back a reply from 
General Smuts stating that it was inadvisable to 
convey the body to the capital at the time, so he 

^ G«n. De Wet was tried and sentenced by the Special court to six 
years' imprisonment and a fine of ^,000. 



THE BOER REBELLION 


333 


was buried by the parson on the veld to the accom- 
paniment of lightning flashes which blind the eye, 
and salutes of loud peals of African thunder, which 
shake the earth in a manner that is known only to 
persons who have spent a summer in the interior of 
South Africa. 

It is said that the late General insured his life so 
heavily b^ore the outbreak that representatives of the 
several iilsurance companies concerned had to meet 
after his death and consider the matter of their 
liability. 

The remainder of the story of the " Five Shilling 
Rebellion " is soon told. After the proclamation of 
martial law the Premier assumed the supreme com- 
mand of the Union forces and called out all the 
citizens — ^the whites to 'arms andr the blacks as 
drivers and manual labourers at the front. Some 
Boers who could not give a satisfactory excuse 
disobeyed the call, and were sentenced to terms of 
imprisonment with hard labour under the Defence 
Act. Thus backed by the overwhelming support 
of the various peoples of the Union of all creeds 
and colours, the Prime Minister made a clean 
sweep of the rising, and in less than two months the 
Rt. Hon. Louis Botha was once again master of the 
situation from the shores of the Indian Ocean in the 
east to the Atlantic coast in the west. And when 
the rebel leaders were cogitating over the situation 
in durance vile, the Prime Minister was sending a 
message from German South West Africa, on February 
26, asking Parliament to deal leniently with the rebels. 


Keise qusa Tipereri, 
Kgam'se gaqu ha; 
Keise qusa Tipereri 
Artie ti gxawo si mu. 
Hamnci gqo Pikadili. 



334 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


Haranci Gqo Lester Skuer 
Keise qusa, qusa Tipereri 
Mar, ti xawo nxeba ha. 

" Tipperary " in Qotanna.^ 


^ This language is also spoken by the Namaquas and some of the 
tribes in German South' West Africa. 



CHAPTER XXIV 


PIET GROBLER 

Lect^ife delivered by Mr. Sol T. Plaatje before the Marsh Street Men's 
Own'' Literary Society in the Lecture Room of their Institute^ Hoe 
Streett Walthamstow^ on February 26, 1915. 

Keep me in chains ? I defy you. 

That is a pow'r I deny you ! 

I will sing ! I will rise ! 

Up ! To the Jtirid skies — * • 

With the smoke of my soul, 

With my last breath, 

Tar- feathered, I shall cry : 

Ethiopia shall not die ! 

And hand in hand with Death, 

Pass on. 

I shall not curse you. But singing — 

My singing fatefully ringing 
Till startled and dumb 
You falter, the sum 
Of your crime shall reveal — 

This do I prophesy . . . 

O Heart wrung dry, 

Awake ! ' 

Startle the world with thy cry : 

Ethiopia shall not die ! 

Otto L. Bohanan.* 

T he gentleman whose name forms the title of 
my lecture is a lawyer, a grand-nephew of the 
late President Kruger and, till lately, a member 
of the Union Parliament. He represented the Dutch 
constituency of Rustenburg, a district whose Burghers 
were responsible for a kind of administrative native 
land arrangement in the Transvaal Republic. This 

^ In the Kalahari language, Bohanan means : Be combined s 
33 § 



336 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

arrangement, the result of a petition from Rusten- 
berg, made it compulsory for native landowners in 
the Republic to register their farms in the names of 
white people. In accordance with it, Natives, who 
bought land had to register it in the name of the 
Minister of Native Affairs. But as such Ministers 
did not always command the trust of the Natives 
they resorted to the expedient of registering their 
farms in the names of some European friends, 
missionaries or otherwise. Some European gentlemen 
thus became the registered owners of land belonging 
to Natives, giving the Natives receipts for the money 
and documents explaining the nature of the transaction. 
Other Europeans, including missionaries, were not so 
scrupulous. They gave the Natives no receipt, so that 
after their death the properties of these Natives passed 
into the estates of the deceased. The following case 
is an example. 

The native peasants on a Transvaal farm found 
themselves in such a dilemma after the death of 
General Joubert, late Superintendent of Natives of the 
Transvaal Republic. The black '' owners '' had no 
document showing that they were the real owners of the 
farm and that General JouberUs name was only regis- 
tered to meet the requirements of the Volksraad. In 
such circumstances they received notice from his 
executors to leave the General's farm. They appealed 
to the law-courts and adduced verbal evidence in 
support of their purchase and ownership of the farm ; 
the sale had been a public one. Besides, according to 
their ideas, it needed no documentary evidence, since 
they were legally in possession. The Court, after 
listening to the evidence concerning the sums paid by 
individual Natives of the tribe, of the total sum paid 
for the farm, and of the legal reason why the title bore 
a white man's name, held that however unfortunate 



PIET GROBLER 


337 


was tlie position of those Natives if their story was 
true, it could only give judgment in terms of the title 
deeds. Thus Natives who were originally dispossessed 
of their land by conquest, and who swore to having 
purchased in hard cash land in their own country from 
the conquerors, were now for the second time, so 
they stated, dispossessed and turned off that land all 
owing to, the complicated registration under this 
** Besluk from Rustenburg. 

After the British occupation in 1900, the Courts 
held that the '' Besluit '' and its practices did not 
have the force of law, and Natives took advantage of 
the ruling to transfer their properties to their own 
names ; but in 1913, Mr. Piet Grobler, M.L.A., moved 
and succeeded in getting the Natives* Land Act car- 
ried in the Union Parliament, which has placed the 
Natives of the whole country in a more terrible 
plight than were the Natives of the Transvaal Republic 
before the war. 

Since he took his seat in the Union Parliament, Mr. 
Piet Grobler, like Mr, Keyter of Ficksburg, has given 
the Natives no rest. He first made his power felt 
in 1911, when General Smuts introduced a Bill to 
consolidate the marriage laws of the four Provinces. 
Mr. Grobler then moved a fatal colour clause which had 
the effect of killing the Bill, for the Ministry, on finding 
that the Bill could only be carried with the assistance 
of the Unionists, preferred to drop it rather than 
divide the Boer majority ; and hence, thanks to Mr. 
Grobler, the chaotic confusion still obtains in the 
South African marriage laws. 

This gentleman, in 1913, led the attack in Parlia- 
ment on Sir Richard Solomon, the Union's representa- 
tive in London, for not keeping his mouth shut when 
he is among British foreigners, and for daring to 
suggest British emigration to So^th Africa. As 

Y 



338 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


stated above, Mr. Grobler demanded, among ^ther 
things, that the Government should introduce during 
this session (1913) a law to stop the purchase and 
lease of land by Natives, and the Natives' Land Act of 
1913 was the result of the demand — a measure whose 
destructive severity forced the Natives to sue for 
Imperial protection against the South African Parlia- 
ment. ^ 

When the present European War broke out, Mr. 
Grobler was among the Parliamentary clique of 
representatives whose Christian principles forbade 
them to vote for an armed expedition against their 
friendly neighbours, the Germans. They said that, 
in Deuteronomy xix. 14, God specifically warned the 
Boers against moving the landmarks of their neigh- 
bours. Bfit strange to say, t4ie' religious scruples of 
these pious objectors never revolted against removing 
the landmarks of their native neighbours and of appro- 
priating, not only their land and their labour, but 
even the persons of these neighbours. The Natives, 
according to Mr. Ludorf, a German evangelist among 
the Bechuana, witnessed the Boer trekkers mal- 
treating conquered Natives and taking their children 
as slaves. Children who were unable to walk to 
their serfdom being gathered in a heap and burnt 
alive. This, says Mr. Ludorf, caused the Natives to 
exclaim : '' Mzilikasi, the Matabele King, was cruel 
to his enemies, but kind to those he conquered ; 
whilst the Boers are cruel to their enemies and ill- 
treat and enslave their friends.'' ^ 

Now, Mzilikasi had no Bible, but the Boer has the 
Bible and professes to honour it. But his Bible, 
being of a flexible sort, it did not prevent a certain 
clique of Boers from taking up arms against the Govern- 
ment of which Mr. Lloyd George (a gentleman who 

^ "The Boer States " (Keane), pp 137-138. 



PIET GROBLER 


339 


stakfed his reputation and risked his life in his fearless 
protests against the annexation of the Boer Republics) 
was a prominent member; and against the Liberal 
Government, which, as compensation for the mere 
change of flags, made them a nice little present in 
the shape of the two old English Colonies of South 
Africa and the undisturbed permission to rule all that 
is therein. Mr. Piet Grobler, the author of most of 
our miseries, reached the climax of his career when, 
after voting against the Union expedition to German 
South West Africa, he not only persuaded British 
subjects not to volunteer for service in the expedition, 
but himself joined a force, as alleged by the South 
African papers to hand by the latest mail, to shoot 
down the King's loyal subjects. He was taken 
prisoner by General Botha's forees at the head of a 
rebel commando, presumably whilst on the way to 
join the Kaiser's forced in the German Colony. He 
is thus one of the members of the Union Parlia- 
ment who forfeited their seats by breaking the 
ParUamentary oath and participating in the recent 
rebellion. 

Mr. Solicitor Grobler's ideas about the sacredness 
of an oath are curious and original. Every member 
of the Union Parliament, before taking his seat, has 
to subscribe to the following oath of allegiance before 
the Governor-General, or some person authorized 
by him," usually a Judge of the Supreme Court : 

I, M. ... M. ... do swear that I will be faithful and bear true 
allegiance to His Majesty King George V, his heirs and successors 
according to law. So help me God. 

Mr. Grobler, it is said, was caught red-handed in 
the treasonable act of leading a force of fifty armed 
rebels against the Government, and for his breach 
of the oath he was taken prisoner. Last week, whilst 
his trial was still pending, he applied for bail, and 



340 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

in support of his application, he pleaded that he*was 
anxious to attend to his Parliamentary duties. Here 
is a bit of Boer candour for you ! 

The honourable and learned member is further stated 
to have pleaded that his district provided the largest 
proportion of rebels and he was anxious to be in 
Capetown when Parliament opens this afternoon,^ in 
order to be able to represent their case when the 
Legislature discusses the rebellion. That is "South 
African logic in a nutshell. The Judge, however, 
took a rational view of things and dismissed the 
application. 

There may be motives other than those stated by 
the incarcerated member of Parliament actuating his 
desire to get; to Capetown. 

Every member orParliamenf who absents himself 
without leave forfeits £2 a day out of his Parliamentary 
emoluments, so that Mr. Grobler's continued confine- 
ment in prison would entail a serious financial deficit. 
This was not the only instance in which anxiety of this 
kind was betrayed by recipients of Government 
bounties in South Africa. There are a large number 
of well-to-do Boers who draw annually hundreds of 
pounds from the Union Treasury, salaries which a 
paternal Government taxes the poorly paid labourers 
of South Africa to provide. This is particularly the 
case in the Transvaal. There, princely salaries are paid 
for filling such superfluous posts as that of " Inspector 
of White Labour," "Field Comet," and krndred 
offices. The Field Comet of each sub-district of the 
Transvaal is a very important gentleman, as is evinced 
by the intense labour attached to his office. The duties 
of this " hard- worked " functionary consist of the 
checking of the Parliamentary voters list of his ward, 

1 The S. A. Parliament opened on the afternoon of the $aine day as 
ths Lecture, 



PIET GROBLER 


341 


once every two years, and of acting as chief canvasser 
and election agent for the Ministerial candidate, who, 
however, is usually returned unopposed ; and for 
these onerous duties he is rewarded by an ungrate- 
ful Government with the beggarly" salary of £260 
a year. 

Besides these, there are sundry little sinecures, 
equaljy^ remunerative, to which well-to-do Dutch 
farmers, who are the more generally preferred, aspire ; 
and each fills his role with acceptable dignity and a 
serious sense of responsibility. Consequently, there 
is more gnashing of teeth on the farm over the loss 
of one of these appointments than over the failure of a 
whole year's crop. 

Several of these •nominal " members " ^f the Union 
Civil Service were said to have taken up arms and 
joined the rebellion. According to the South African 
papers, the wife of one of them applied to the defence 
office for the salary of her husband. When it was 
pointed out to her that her husband was at that time 
engaged in fighting against the forces of the Defence 
Department, she coolly told the official that that had 
nothing to do with his private affairs, i.e., the income 
from the Government. In regard to the faithfulness 
of the class of officials just mentioned, I cannot refrain 
from drawing the attention of my audience to the 
fact that, as the electoral supporters of the Cabinet, 
they guided the policy of the Union Government during 
the past five years, and they are the type of legislators 
in whose tender care the Imperial Government would 
fain entrust the liberties . of the voteless Natives 
without even the safeguard of a right of appeal. 

Personally I am not revengeful, and would wish Mr. 
Grobler every success in his defence ; the Transvaal 
native taxpayer, on the other hand, earns an average 
wage of £20 per annum : out of this he pays taxation 



342 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 


on the same scale as the white labourer who earns 
£25 a month ; in addition, he pays a native tax of 
£3 4s. per year, presumably as a tax on the colo^ir 
of his skin, for no white man pays that. This extra 
tax, apparently, is in order that Transvaal Field 
Comets and members of Parhament should more 
easily draw their pay. In return for all the^e pay- 
ments, and as a result of Mr. Grobler's legislative 
efforts, the Transvaal native taxpayer got the Natives' 
Land Act of 1913 ; and I am afraid that he will not 
be very sorry to know that some one else enjoys the 
£400 per annum hitherto received by Mr. Grobler, 
together with his free first-class travelling ticket over 
the South African railways. 

British pioneer ogi.cials, in Africa and elsewhere, 
have for generations been left in charge of mixed 
communities of white Colonials and black Natives 
and other immigrants. In spite of occasional human 
lapses, they have ruled these communities successfully 
throughout the past century, and maintained the 
high administrative reputation of the English in 
Africa, Asia and other parts of the globe. The 
dominant race in South Africa, on the other hand, 
may be fit to govern themselves, but their deaUngs 
with us show them to be wholly unfit to rule the native 
races. There is no more glaring illustration of this 
weakness than the conduct of the rebel Boers and the 
loyal Boers during the present war. According to my 
latest information from different centres of South 
Africa, native peasants were horsewhipped into the 
enemy's service as soon as the standard of rebellion 
was unfurled. There can be no reason to doubt the 
veracity of my information when the Press reports 
have clearly shown that even a white skin has ceased 
to be a protection against illtreatment. At least 
one loyal Magistrate and a postmaster were violently 



PIET GROBLER 


343 


assaulted by General De Wet's Burghers, so the official 
dispatches say. Those shopkeepers who hesitated 
to open their stores to the rebels were sjambokked as 
were the ordinary Natives, and the Mayor of a " Free " 
State town was also flogged. 

After the proclamation of martial law General 
Botha marshalled the loyal Boers throughout the coun- 
try. jHese loyal Burghers, taking advantage of the 
presence of martial law, committed all kinds of excesses 
against loyal coloured civilians. These atrocities not 
only took place away in the Backveld, but sometimes 
in Capetown and Kimberley, the centres of African 
civilization ; there black men were frequently tied to 
the wagon-wheels and lashed by the loyal Boers, 
and some of these •coloured victims, I aiji told, have 
been cruelly done to death. ** 

Of course, if the particular Burgher who dealt the 
death-blow can be identified he will be prosecuted, 
but that will not resuscitate the victims. It will only 
add misery to the innocent family of the offender. 
But the fact remains that during the South African 
War, South Africa was a huge military camp, yet the 
unarmed Natives, many of whom were then in the 
enemy's service, suffered nothing but kindness at the 
hands of Imperial troops, and there never was any 
conflict between the military and native civihans. 
And it but reveals the unfitness for self-government 
of the dominant race out there that the Natives, who 
S5mipathize with the Government, should be exposed 
to violence immediately the loyal Burghers are armed. 
That is the condition of life under true South African 
ideals. 

Having had the ear of the Union Government since 
the federation of the South African States, Mr. Piet 
Grobler and other men of his way of thinldng have 
been largely responsible for the repressive native 



344 native life IN SOUTH AFRICA 


laws that have found their way into the statute 
book of the Union. If the Natives of the other three 
Provinces had votes like those of the Cape Province, 
they would help to return sober-minded members^ to 
Parliament who are not inimical to the public welfare, 
instead of which they have been represented in 
the South African Parliament by budding subalterns 
of the German Army in South-West Africa. But^ since 
the Imperial Government in its wisdom when *grant- 
ing a Constitution to South Africa saw fit to with- 
hold from the blacks their only weapon of protection 
against hostile legislation, viz., the power of the 
ballot, they surely, in common fairness to the Natives 
and from respect for their own honour, cannot 
reasonably §tand aside as mer§ onlookers while self- 
condemned enemie^ of the Crown ram their violent 
laws down the throats of the Natives. The Imperial 
Government by the obligations of its overlordship and 
its plighted word to the Natives, at the time of the 
federation, is in duty bound to free the unrepresented 
Natives from the shackles of these laws, or otherwise, 
declare its guardianship of the interests of the 
Natives to have ceased, and counsel these weaker 
races to apply elsewhere for relief. 



EPILOGUE 


Oh, hear us for our native land, 

The land we love the most : 

Our fathers' sepulchres are here, 

And here our kindred dwell ; 

Our children, too ; how should we love 
Another land so well ? 

Wreford. 

A fter partaking of hot cross buns at the famUy 
table of a dear old English family the day before 
yesterday (Good Friday), I went to Walthamstow, and 
there heard a moving discourse delivered by the Rev. 
James Ellis on the sufferings and death of Christ for 
the redemption of mankind. 

At my abode this morning, after receiving such 
tokens of friendship as Easter eggs and artistic 
picture cards, I attended an Easter service at the 
London University Hall and heard the little choir of 
four voices rendering mellifluous anthems to the 
glory of God. At the invitation of the Rev. R. P. 
Campbell this afternoon I went to Lloyds Park to 
tell the P.S.A. there about a South African Easter 
and to deliver at the same time the native message 
to the British public. 

In the evening I went to the City Temple, where I 
listened to an intellectual Easter sermon, by the 
Rev. R. J. Campbell, on the triumph of Christianity, 
and heard the uniformed choir artistically sing 
doxologies to the risen Christ. 

As I recall these services, I am transported in 
thought to St. Martin's Church in the heart of the 
Free " State, 6,000 miles away, where thirty-seven 

345 



346 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

t 

•years ago, as an unconscious babe in my godmother's 
arms, I went through my first religious sacrament, 
performed by an aged missionary who made the ^ign 
of the cross on my forehead and on my breast. I 
think also of another church on the banks of the 
Vaal River where, over twenty years ago, another 
missionary laid his white hands on my curly, head and 
received my vow to forsake the Devil and all his. works. 
I know that in these two places, as well as in all other 
native churches and chapels throughout South Africa, 
native congregations have this day been singing in 
their respective houses of worship and in a variety of 
tongues about the risen Christ. But thinking also of 
the lofty spires of the Dutch Reformed churches in 
the South *African^towns and 'dcJrps, I am forced to 
remember that coloured worshippers are excluded 
from them. Still, in these churches as well, Dutch men 
and Dutch women have this day been singing of the 
triumphs of the risen Christ. Yet to-morrow some 
of these white worshippers, in the workshops and in the 
parks, will be expressing an opposite sentiment to that 
conveyed in their songs of praise, namely, " Down 
with ihQverdoemde schepsels*' (damned black creatures) 
— the Natives — for whom also, these white worship- 
pers say, Christ died. 

The Infant Christ, when King Herod sought to 
murder Him, found an asylum in Africa. 

The Messiah, having been scourged, mocked, and 
forced to bear His cross up to Golgotha, and sinking 
under its weight, an African, by name Simon of 
Cyrene, relieved Him of the load. 

To-day British troops are suffering untold agony 
in the trenches in a giant struggle for freedom. In 
this stupendous task they are assisted by sable Afri- 
cans from the British, French, and Belgian colonies 
of the Dark Continent, thus fulfilling the Biblical 



EPILOGUE 


347 


prophecy, From Africa (Egypt) I have called my son." 
But other Africans, again, are debarred by the South 
African Constitution on account of their colour from 
doing their share in this war of redemption. This pro- 
hibition surely carries the conviction that the native 
complaint against the South African Constitution 
is something more than a mere sentimental grievance. 

Th.e newspapers are telling us of "a growing spirit 
of justice in South Africa " ; but in the face of what is 
happening to-day, the Natives are wondering if the 
word justice, in this newspaper allegation, is not a 
misprint for haired, for up till as late as 1914 whole 
congregations have been arrested on leaving some of 
their farm chapels on '' Free " State and Transvaal 
farms. They had tbeit passes in their popkets, but 
the police contended that they had no special permits, 
signed by the landowners on whose farms the chapels 
are situated, to attend divine service at the particular 
places of worship on that particular day, and the 
courts upheld this contention. Up to five years ago 
no such sacrilegious proceedings interfered with the 
Sunday attendances of native worshippers in the same 
country, so that there is no mistake as to the kind of 
spirit that is " growing in South Africa." 

? ? ? ? ? 

When a man comes to you with stories about a 
'^growing spirit of justice in South Africa," ask him 
if he knows that in 1884 there was a great debate in 
the Cape Parliament as to whether Natives should be 
jjermitted to exercise the franchise, and that the ayes 
had it. Ask him, further, if he thinks that such a 
proposal could ever be entertained to-day by any 
South African Parliament. If he is honest, he will be 
bound to say " no." Then ask him, " Where is your 
growing spirit of justice ? " 



348 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

In 1909 a South African Governor made a great* speech 
in which he declaimed against the South African 
policy of pinpricking the blacks. 

In 1 91 1, another South African Governor authoVized 
the publication of regulations in which, by pro- 
hibiting the emplojmient of coloured artisans 
on the South African mines, the pinpricks were 
accentuated. 

In 1913, a South African Governor signed the Natives' 
Land Act which made the Natives homeless in 
South Africa. Whereas the Government have 
announced their intention not to disfranchise the 
South African rebels, judging from the present 
legislative tendency we fear that, unless the Im- 
perial Government can Ije .induced to interfere, 
it is not impfbbable that should the rebels return 
to power after the general election 

In 1916, there will be horrible enactments in store for 
the blacks. 

* t * * * 

In 1906, His Majesty's Government gave the Transvaal 
Colony self-government under a constitution 
which included a clause placing the voteless 
native taxpayers imder the special protection of 
the Crown. 

In 1907, His Majesty's Government hkewise gave the 
Orange River Colony (now Orange " Free " 
State) self-government under a constitution which 
contained a similar provision. At this time the 
Governor of Natal, as representing the King, 
was Supreme Chief of the Zulus in that Colony. 
The Natives lived happily under these protectii^ 
reservations, and the white people had no com- 
plaint against the just restraint of the Imperial 
suzerainty. 

In 1909, His Majesty's Government passed the Union 



EPILOGUE 


349 


Cchistitution, sweeping away all these safeguards. 
In that Act they practically told South Africa 
to do what she liked with the Natives in these 
^hree Colonies and South Africa is doing it. Where, 
then, is this '' growing spirit '' ? 

? ? ? ? ? 

During the South African War in 1901, the Imperial 
Government informed the Federal (Dutch) Govern- 
Ihent that no peace terms could be considered 
which did not extend to the native races the 
same privileges — ^the rights of the franchise — which 
are enjoyed by the Natives of the Cape Colony. 

In 1902, the British Imperial and Dutch representa- 
tives signed the Peace terms at Vereeniging. In 
these, the rights of the coloured citizens were post- 
poned till after the\)ld RepublKs had itsponsible 
Government. Responsible Government has since 
been granted, and has in turn been succeeded 
by the Union. But when the Imperial Parliament, 
In 1909, considered the Act of Union, English and 
Dutch South Africans came over and represented 
to the Imperial authorities that there would be a 
striking demonstration (or words to that effect) 
against the federation, and even against South 
Africa's relation to the Mother Country if native 
rights were as much as mentioned in the Constitu- 
tion ; and the South African Native Franchise 
has now receded as far off as the Greek calends. 
So where is that growing spirit of justice " ? 

? ? ? ? ? 

When you speak of converting Mohammedans, let 
the question be asked : '' What must Mohammedaps 
think of those whose religion having said ' In the 
sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread,' they neverthe- 
less uphold the policy of rulers who pass regulations 
debarring one section of the community from following 



350 NATIVE LIFE IN SOUTH AFRICA 

an honest occupation in their native land ? And what 
impression must be created in the minds of black con- 
verts who are subjected to discriminations, including 
prohibitions that were not in existence five years ago?'* 

And if in spite of beautiful voices that I have 
heard this Easter Sunday singing anthems con- 
cerning the triumph of the kingdom of love the British 
flag continues to defend the policy of repression and 
colour hatred in South Africa, then I fear that the 
black victims of this policy, many of them converted 
to Christianity through your efforts, might very well 
class your Easter anthems and their great teaching 
with the newspaper canard relative to a growing 
spir t of justice in South Africa " ; for our bitter experi- 
ence proves that spirit to be at best but a dwindling one. 

Two years ago J^was alarmed 6y the impious utter- 
ances of a coloared man whose friendship I valued. 
He being influential among our people, I gently remon- 
strated with him lest through his action many of our 
people become unsettled in their faith. This was his 
explanation : He was going along an East Rand suburb 
at eleven o'clock one Sunday morning when the bells 
were ringing. He saw a number of people entering a 
Dutch church, and as he was far from home he mingled 
with them, intending to spend the hour at worship 
instead of continuing his walk. But no sooner was he 
inside than the usher jostled him out of the church, 
hailed a policeman and handed him in charge, so that 
he spent the next hour in the charge office instead of 
at chapel. On the Monday morning he was con- 
victed by the East Rand Magistrate and fined £i 
for trespassing on a private place, to wit, a church. 
And that was a Dutch Reformed church, the State 
Church of South Africa. Others had reproached him 
before me for such utterances, he said, but he will 
have no more of our religious mockery with its 



EPILOGUE 


351 


theoretical ' Come unto Me ' and its practical ' £i 
or a month with hard labour.' " 

John Ruskin, writing on State Intervention, says : 

" When a peasant mother sees one of her careless children fall into a ditch, 
her ^.tirst proceeding is to pull him out ; her second, to box his ears ; her 
thir/i, ordinarily, to lead him carefully a little way by the hand, or send 
hiiA home for the rest of the day. The child usually cries, and very 
oftfn would clearly prefer remaining in the ditch ; and if he understood 
any^^ the terms of politics, would certainly express resentment at the 
interf^ence with his individual liberty : but the mother has done her 
duty. ' ^ • 

Ruokin goes further and depicts the calamities of a 
mother nation which, like a foxhunter, complies with 
the request of its daughter nations ''to be left in 
muddy independence.'' ^ 

Let us appeal to you, in conclusion, to remember 
that the victorious Christ " has gathered your people 
into a great natio?i,^and sent them to sow beside all 
waters and multiply sdre dwellings •cm the barth. . . . 

Let not the crown of your pride*^e as a fading 
flower. But be equal to your high trust : reverent 
in the use of freedom, just in the exercise of power, 
and generous in the protection of the weak." 

This has been the most strenuous winter that the 
writer has ever experienced : a dark, dreary winter 
of almost continuous rains, snowflakes, cold, mud and 
slush. Reading of the severity of English winters at a 
distance, I never could have realized that the life I have 
lived in England during the past four months was 
possible. An existence from which the sun's rays 
are almost always obliterated by the inclement weather, 
by snow and by fog. I cannot describe the sensations 
caused by the dismal gloom of the sunless days — a 
most depressing life — especially in December, when it 
would suddenly turn dark, compelling one to work 
by gaslight when the clocks indicated that it was 
high noon. Not till then did I realize why some 

' Political Econbmy of Art: Addenda (J. E., § 137), 



352 NATIVE 'LIFE 'IN SOUTH AFRICA 


people are said to worship the sun. I find that I 
have unlearned my acquaintance with the larger 
planets and heavenly bodies (a knowledge acquired 
since boyhood) because the winter fog and clouds 

have continually hidden the moon and stars from vitvw. 

? ? ? ? ? 

But now that the country is throwing off its wii^cer 
cloak and dressing itself in its green, gorgeous p i ray ; 
now that King Day shines in all his glory through ^the 
mist by day, and the moon and stars appear in their 
brilliancy in the evenings ; now that, as if in harmony 
with the artistic rendering of Easter anthems by your 
choirs, the thrush and the blackbird twitter forth 
the disappearance of the foggy winter with its snow, 
sleet and wet ; now that the flocks of Jeecy sheep, which 
for the past four^ pionths hav:> oeen in hiding and 
conspicuous by^, their absence, come forward again and 
spread triumpuantly over the green as if in celebra- 
tion of the dawn of the new spring ; now that the 
violet and the daffodil, the marguerite and the hya- 
cinth, the snowdrop and the bluebell, glorious in 
appearance, also announce, each in its own way, the 
advent of sunny spring, we are encouraged to hope 
that, ''when peace again reigns over Europe,'' when 
white men cease warring against white men, when the 
warriors put away the torpedoes and the bayonets 
and take up less dangerous implements, you will in 
\he interest of your flag, for the safety of your coloured 
subjects, the glory of your Empire, and the purity of 
your religion, grapple with this dark blot on the 
Imperial emblem, the South African anomaly that 
compromises the justice of British rule and seems almost 
to belie the beauty, the sublimity and the sincerity of 
Christianity. 

Shall we appeal to you in vain ? I HOPE NOT. 


P. S. King & Son, Ltd., Orchard House, Westminster. London. 


